
.r------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
IN 46Ei~·6 
___.. 

~ 



Thursday, April20, 1995• Vol. XXVI No. 124 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Not Again... 
Tuition jumps 5.9 percent 
By ETHAN HAYWARD 
Assistant News Editor 
Notre Dame's Board of Trustees has approved a 5.9 percent increase in tuition and room and board, raising com­bined costs for the 1995-96 academic year to $22,340. 
The cost of tuition now stands at a record $17,830 while room and board costs up to $4,510. The decision was announced in a letter from University Presi­dent Father Edward Malloy to the parents of undergraduate studnnts. 
From 1990 to 1994, the cost of full-time undergraduate tu­ition increased from $12,390 to $16,840, while room and board eost grBw from $3,414 to $4,300. 
The letter from Malloy states that the rates were increased in order to help continue the pursuit of a "superior eduea­tion" for students. In addition, Malloy cited a need to develop several long-term university plans, including the develop­ment of "a learning environ­ment of cutting-edge technolo­gy," and "a constant enhance­ment of community life." 
Malloy further justified the increase by explaining that as the percentage of tuition increases continues to go down, Notre Dame is offering larger scholarship aid programs. This is the sixth year in a row that the percentage of inerease in tuition has decreased, while scholarship aid topped the 
Tuition and Fees 1991·95 

::D-·
(I)
-· 
:::s 
(.Q 
(') 
0 
(/) 
(I) 
-
0
.... 
I» 
z 
0 
""« 
-
C'D 
c 
I» 
3 
CD 
m 
0. 
s:: 
(') I» 
:::t 
0 
:::s 

$11.5 million mark. 
The letter also stresses the importance of the satisfaction of University students, citing a poll taken of last year's gradu­ates, 90 percent of whom answered that they were either "satisfied" or "very satisfied" with their experience at Notre Dame. 
Still, many students are not 
• Total Cost 
convinced the tuition increase can be justified, particularly in light of recent pledges by Con­gressional Republicans to cut funding for federal financial aid. 
Freshman Andrea Rohrs says she feels the hike in tuition does not seem fair for students in need of financial aid. In fact, 
see TUITION/ page 8 
By DAVE TYLER 
News Editor 
And LIZ FORAN 
Associate News Editor 
For the second time in two years, Notre Dame's AnTostal celebration will not include a concert. 
Student Union Board Music Commissioner Rob Adams told The Observer yesterday that plans to bring the New York City-based rap act Digable Planets to campus were scrapped when Notre Dame Security voiced concerns about safety at the show. 
SUB worked frantically to find a replacement, he said, 
see CONCERT/ page 8 

Richards: Women face rough political road 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE 
Assistant News Editor 
Women faee more challenges in the political arena than do men, according to former Democratic Governor of Texas Ann Hiehards. who offered her 
• see SYMPATHY, page 3 
v1ew ol the state ol our natwn last night in Washington Hall. 
In her lecture "Politics in the '90's: A Woman's Perspnctive," Hichards said she hoped to "provoke thinking" by the audi­ence with her formal remarks. 
Elected in 1990 as the first female governor of Texas in over fifty years, Richards ap­pointed more African-Ameri­cans. Hispanics, and women to state posts during her term than any previous governor. 
Hichards described three ehallenges facing woman in their political careers. 
"The biggest challenge for males or females in politics is money, but it is much more dif­fieult for women to raise money," she said. 
"The second biggest chal­lenge is 'us."' Speaking of women, -;he said, "We are 
trained to be caretakers of the community, of our children, and of our husbands." It is dif­ficult to have these responsibili­ties and to be an elected offi­cial, according to Richards, because women may feel guilty for the time not spent with their families . 
As a third challenge to women in politics, Richards de­scribed women's nature to be less aggressive then men. "We are not ruthless enough," she said. "We just didn't fight enough on the playground." 
Illustrating her view of the nature of politics, Richards told the audience that since she was at Notre Dame, she was going to explain "why things are the way they are" in a way the au­dience would understand. 
"I consider your intellect a cut above," she told the audi­ence, and she offered some of her input with a sarcastic tone. 
Explaining her version of the origin of the word "politics," Hichards said that "'poli' is Greek for 'many' and 'tics' are blood-sucking insects." 
Stating what she believes to be the current state of the na­tion, Richards mentioned 
see RICHARDS/ page 8 
Bomb rocks Oklahoma City 
Blast kills 31, leaves hundreds missing in rubble 
ByJUDY GIBBS 
Associated Press 

OKLAHOMA CITY 
A car bomb ripped deep into America's heartland Wednes­day, killing at least 31 people and leaving 200 missing in a 
• see CLINTON, page 3 

blast that gouged a nine-story hole in a federal office building. 
The dead included at least 12 youngsters, some of whom had just been dropped off by their parents at a day-care center. 
There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the attack, the deadliest U.S. bomb­ing in 75 years. 
At least 200 people were injured-58 critically, ac­cording to Fire Chief Gary Marrs. Scores were feared trapped in the rubble of the Al­fred P. Murrah /Federal Build­ing. 
Three people were pulled from the rubble Wednesday night but two died a short time 
Federal building explosion 
De\ietopmeots Wednesday In the Oklahoma City federal office building explosion: THE B\/II.DING SUSPECTS
THEBOMII 
I

Allrod p. Mur!llh l'<l!!arAI Bo•evod to be 1.000-10 
&Jikling,nino..,otyloldelol 1,200.poulld car bOmb. QfflcebUildln9whaf$t'tlOt& e.plb(Joo OUWide Widing thall501)pe<>plew0!1l at>out lOam. EST.
I 
Alfred P Murrah Federal BUilding 

later, said Assistant Fire Chief Jon Hansen. He said a 15-year­old girl was taken from the building in critical condition. He also said a woman trapped 
Journal Record Bulldmg 
in the basement said there were two others with her. She didn't know if they were dead 
see BOMB/ page 4 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, April 20, 1995 
• INSIDE Cm..uMN 
Hoop dreams, stark reality 
6.4 seconds on the clock. Scottie Pippen to Peter Rubinas inbound. Ball in to Assistant Accent Editor Armstrong. B.J. passes to Jordan at the top of the key. Jordan pump fakes. Ehlo flies by. Jordan goes up and takes a fade-away three-pointer. It's good! Bulls win! Bulls win! 
This is the stuff dreams are made of. Hoop dreams. Many a youngster has dreamt that scene replacing Mr. Jordan's name with their own. Who wouldn't want the to experience the fame and thrill? 
The documentary Hoop Dreams is about these dreams that drive so many kids to prac­tice every day on the blacktop courts of our cities. But it is about a lot more than just the dreams that these children have. Hoop Dreams is about the many facets of life in urban America that affect these kids and the dreams. 
The movie follows the lives of two African­American boys, Arthur Agee and Will Gates, from eighth grade until they graduate from high school. Many issues arise throughout the movie, including drug abuse (by Arthur's dad), the ethics of recruiting eighth graders in the projects to play at all-white Catholic high schools in the suburbs, and the shortcomings of the welfare system. 
Many people would do well to watch Hoop Dreams, namely our country's politicians, pro­fessional basketball players, and those of us privileged enough to have made it into a col­lege without having to have any athletic abili­ty. No one could watch this movie about real people with real struggles and then convince me that something in our society is not messed up. 
Our country's politicians would cringe at the policy issues addressed in Hoop Dreams, and the way that they fail the people involved. After getting into St. Joseph's High School, a Catholic high school in the affiuent western suburbs of Chicago, Arthur Agee's dad leaves the family as he struggles with a drug addic­tion. Arthur's mom struggles to keep up with the tuition, but, when Arthur is taken off of welfare for turning 18, she simply can't make the payments. Arthur is forced to leave the school and go to Marshall, the public high school near his home where drugs and vio­lence are the norm. 
Professional basketball players could learn something from the two young men in the movie as well. Imagine playing for the love of the game or to lift oneself out of the ghetto. Few basketball players have had this experi­ence; Isaiah Thomas also played at St. Joseph's High School to help his family get out of the inner city. Would Will Gates whine about money if he could just play in one NBA game. He is probably better than several of the mediocre players playing in the NBA. 
And then there are those of us who have the 
opportunity to go to a school like Notre Dame 
without having to rely on athletic ability to get 
here or afford it. Do we really deserve to be 
here more than Arthur Agee or Will Gates do? 
Or is it that we have always had better oppor­
tunities, better schooling, and parents who 
are a little better off? 
I guess my point is, hoop dreams are great, but these kids should be able to dream about being anything they want to regardless of ath­letic ability. Why are their horizons limited? Somewhere along the line, our society has failed them. They deserve to be here as much as you or I do. Think about it. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Viewpoint Ethan Hayward Margee Husemann Jamie Heisler Michael O'Hara 
Spons Production Abby May Heather Gibson Matt Casey Jackie Moser Graphics Lab Tech 
Tom Roland Brandon Candura 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000} is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WmnJl AT A GLANCE 
New terrorist train gas attack puts Japan's nerves on edge 

AP 

sickened in the March 20 nerve gas attack in Tokyo. Ten days later. an assailant shot and seriously wounded the nation's top police official. 
Police said they believe Wednesday's case was a delib­erate attack, and sent hundreds of officers and chemical weapons experts wearing gas masks to Yokohama Station to look for suspicious objects. 
But as with the Tokyo subway attack, they made no ar­rests and appeared to have no solid evidence. 
At least 297 people were taken to hospitals, complaining of stinging eyes, coughs and dizziness after inhaling a foul chemical odor at the station, police said. No one was reported in serious condition; most victims were treated and released. 
Pandemonium erupted as thousands of commuters raced pell-mell out of the station. Some 50 emergency vehicles clogged the streets, many with their red lights flashing and sirens wailing. Nearly a dozen helicopters -half belonging to newspapers and TV sta­tions -buzzed overhead. 
The victims came from two different places: an underground passage in Yokohama Station lined with shops, and the second car of a train coming from Tokyo that passed through the station. 
Police said the Yokohama case appeared different enough from the 
Tokyo subway attack that it may have been a copycat 
crime by another person or group. Sarin, the nerve gas 
used in Tokyo, was not suspected this time because the 
victims' symptoms were different. Wednesday night, dozens of police with flashlights crawled on the floors at Yokohama Station, probing cracks for clues. 
Farrakhan plot tapes to be analyzed 
MINNEAPOLIS 
Audiotapes of conversations between Malcolm X's daughter and a govern­ment informant may be analyzed to see if they were altered, a judge ruled. 
U.S. Magistrate Franklin Noel granted a request Tuesday by lawyers for Qubilah Shabazz to send copies of the tapes to a technical laboratory. Shabazz, 34, is accused of trying to 

hire informant Michael Fitzpatrick to kill Louis Farrakhan, leader of the Nation of Islam. The govern­ment's case centers on secretly recorded telephone con­versations between Shabazz and Fitzpatrick, high school acquaintances in New York in the 1970s. Shabazz's lawyers say Fitzpatrick may have doctored the tapes or selectively chosen which ones to turn over to the FBI. According to transcripts of the conversations, Shabazz believed Farrakhan was responsible for her father's assassination in 1965. Farrakhan has denied any role in the assassination and said Shabazz was set up. Her trial is set for May 1. 
Austrian bomb plot fails, killing two 
VIENNA, Austria 
Two men were found dead Wednesday at the foot of a high-voltage power pylon in what police called a failed terrorist attempt to disrupt electricity lines in Austria and Hungary. A farmer found the two unidentified corpses in a field near Ebergassing, a small town 25 miles south of Vienna. The men were killed last week when a bomb planted to destroy the power pylon went off, apparently accidentally, police said. Experts prepared to explode three other charges that remained around the pylon. Villagers living near the site reported hearing an explo­sion April 11, but nobody alerted police. The pylon is on the main power line into Vienna and close to a nearby line to Hungary. It was not immediately clear who might be responsible, but a spate of unsolved terrorist attacks against immigrants and supporters of foreigners' rights in Austria the past two years is widely attributed to ex­treme rightists. 

Students sue to wear rebel flag shirts 
COLUMBIA, S.C. 

Seven students suspended for wearing Confederate flag shirts have sued a school district, claiming they should be allowed to sport the rebel flag if others can wear Malcolm X shirts. At least 15 students have been punished for wearing the shirts at Blackville Middle School, according to the class-action lawsuit filed Monday. The plaintiffs contend the Barnwell County District 19 dress code, which prohibits "distasteful or dis­ruptive" symbols on clothes, has been unfairly applied in violation of their free speech rights. The suit claims that students were suspended for wearing shirts with the rebel flag saying "Flying high, ain't coming down," while black students have been permitted to wear symbols of African-American pride, including Malcolm X t-shirts, that "may be offensive to white students." "This suit is not about race. This suit is about freedom," said the stu­dents' lawyer, Lourie A. Salley Ill. "When the school board censors one group, all of us lose freedom." Salley is seeking to rescind the dress code, remove the one-and three-day suspensions from the students' records and unspecified damages. 
Pilot does not regret dropping bomb 
DAYTON, Ohio 

The pilot of the plane that dropped the atomic bomb on Nagasaki during World War II nearly 50 years ago said Wednesday he has never had any regrets about the mis­sion. Retired Gen. Charles Sweeney recalled being bro­kenhearted that U.S. soldiers were being killed by the Japanese and believed that dropping the bomb was one way to stop it. "I saw these beautiful young men who were being slaughtered by an evil, evil military force," said Sweeney, who flew the plane that carried the "Fat Man" bomb dropped on Nagasaki on Aug. 9, 1945. Some 75,000 people were killed or wounded in the bombing. "There's no question in my mind that President Truman made the right decision," Sweeney said. Sweeney visited the plane, the Bockscar, for the first time in more than 30 years last week at the U.S. Air Force Museum in Dayton. He was scheduled to speak Wednesday night at the mu­seum as the bombing's 50th anniversary approaches. 

Thursday, April 20 Accu-Weather~forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Thursday, April 20. 

30s Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
~ 
OHIO

~ 
''''' 
H L rn &"SJ ITI] 0 . ~ E) i) u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE CLOUCIY VIa Associated Press 
Thursday, April20, 1995 The Observer • OKLAHOMA CITY BOMBING page 3 
Clinton sends relief, Bomb stops time in OK City 
Explosion paints 

g~mparisons in terror
personnel to disaster 
World Trade Center, Alfred Murrah Building, 
picture offrozen

By TERENCE HUNT teragency group to oversee the 
New York City Oklahoma City 
Associated Press federal response. 
terror, destruction
"The president wants to WASHINGTON make sure the White House 
By ROCHELLE HINES 

The Clinton administration stays right on top of the admin­
Associated Press 

rushed disaster aid and law istration response," McCurry enforcement teams to Okla­said. 
OKLAHOMA CITY
homa City on Wednesday after Clinton's foremost concern 
A worker killed sitting in his 
a large car bomb killed children was that everything is being 
office. A woman burned to
and workers at a federal office done to help the victims, "and 
death getting out of her car.
building. he is satisfied that those steps 
Children's toys blown from a
John Magaw, director of the are being taken," McCurry 
day-care center onto the street
Bureau Alcohol, Tobacco and said. 
below.

Firearms, said initial investiga­"Secondly, he wants to make 
Time stopped in downtown
tion indicated the explosion was sure through proper law en­
Oklahoma City at 9:04 a.m.
caused by a large bomb, per­forcement that everything is 
Wednesday when a bomb went
haps 1,000 to 1,200 pounds. done as quickly as possible to off at the federal building. :'iik:
Threats were reported at fed­bring whoever is responsible Group responsible: Group responsible:
Workers in the front offices
eral facilities around the coun­for this incident quickly to jus­
tumbled out of the nine-story Muslim fundamentalists associated Unknown. No group has 
try, prompting a tightening of tice," McCurry added. with Sheik Omar Abdul Rahman, claimed responsibility 
building to the street below.
security at all federal offices. McCurry said "there has not aile.. dgedly In control of the jihad 
One man fell into the 30-foot­• (holy war) moverment in America
The heightened alert was evi­been anything substantive" to Casualties:
wide bomb crater. 

dent at the White House, where suggest a link between the ex­20 dead, more than 200 Injured
"I was just sitting at my desk 
(as of 7 p.m., EST)

security officers X-rayed every­plosion and the fiery ending of 
and all of a sudden I just looked
thing from lunch bags to cam­the federal siege of the Branch Typa of attack:
up and everything came down,"
eras. Davidian compound in Waco. 1 ,000· to 1 ,200-pound bomb
sobbed Delynda Casteel, who
"We are taking precautions Texas. which occurred exactly "or'""'""""" of fertilb:er similar to one used in World 
was working at a building two dAiivArfKiin a rented Trade Center, delivered by
as you would expect us to take two years ago. 
blocks from the blast site. "I van to a sub-basement car In front of the northern 
following an incident of this "Our government will do ev­parking lot facade of building 
screamed and ran."

nature and following threats erything it can to bring those 
So did thousands of others. 

that have been going to some who perpetrated this crime to AP
"People were out there in 
dows were blown out in nearly died in that building," he said.
isolated federal facilities justice," Treasury Secretary 
their underwear with glass and every building. "I just want to go home andaround the country," White Robert Rubin said in a state­plaster over their heads, faces Gary Jenkins, an emergency hold my kid."
House press secretary Mike ment released during a visit to and bodies," said state Rep. medical technician, cried as he The explosion blew rubbleMcCurry said. India. His agency oversees the 
Kevin Cox, who was a half­
described the carnage inside from the Alfred P. Murrah Fed­President Clinton was told of Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and block away when the blast hit. the federal building as "incon­eral Building across a streetthe disaster moments before Firearms, as well as the Secret 
The injured left a trail of 
ceivable." and a parking lot and into themeeting with Turkish Prime Service. 
blood for blocks as they fled. 
"Whoever's responsible for side of the Journal RecordMinister Tansu Ciller. He or­The Justice Department took Rescue workers evacuated a that should die the vicious building 50 yards away. 
dered White House chief of staff charge of coordinating law en­
five-block radius, where win-
death that many of those people !~on Panetta to convene an in-forcement efforts, and the Fed-

By GWENDOLYN NORGLE 
Assistant News Editor 
Former Governer of Texas Ann Richards began her lecture last night with a response to yesterday's bombing of a feder­al office building in Oklahoma City. 
The explosion, which killed at least 26 people and left 200 injured. was described by the 

Recycle The Observer 
CHRISTMAS IN APRIL VOLUNTEERS!
I 

Christmas is Coming This Saturday, April22nd. 
Please Remember to: 
•Report to Stepan Center at 7:30a.m. ·Wear Old & Wann Clothing ·Bring your waiver & map 
When you are dropped off at the Anned Forces Reserve Center, please report to your "Assigned" House! Many thanks to all of the Notre Dame, St. Mary's College, and Holy Cross College volunteers! Without your help this project would not happen! 
SEE You SATURDAY! 
Richards sends her consolation to victims 
Associated Press as "the dead­liest U.S. bombing in 75 years." 
According to Richards, one horrifying aspect of the bomb· ing is that it occurred "in a big American city." 
"It shows us how vulnerable we really are," Richards said, noting that the U.S. has never fought a war against a foreign country "on our own shores." The the only war fought on U.S. grounds was "internal." 
Because of this, Richards said, "We are fortunate." 
She extended her sympathy to the victims, their families, and especially to the children in the building's day-care center who were killed in the explo­sion. 
"We should all say our prayers," Richards said. 
Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 
. ------· -.
v y 
Std 'N Srtaktast R~lstry 
~ Sotllh &ntb First &glslry ofPrivate HOIIII3 &rvlng PtiT'tn/3 andFrlenth of Notn I»M andSt. Mary's Colle~ 
Try the OPTION/ EW• "H_A_Jr-H-· 
PIIFICT POl,,, ,QIADUATIOI POOTIALL 
JPV JUUKU DltliTATIOI UUUDU 
Wilma L Behnke 

page4 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, April 20, 1995 
BoiDb 
continued from page 1 
or alive. The death toll was certain to rise. 
"Our firefighters are having to crawl over corpses in areas to get to people that are still alive," said Hansen, who updat­ed the death toll to 31 late Wednesday. 
Attorney General Janet Reno refused to comment on who might have been behind the attack. President Clinton called the bombers "evil cowards," and Reno said the government would seek the death penalty against them. 
A police source, who request­ed anonymity, said FBI agents were trying to piece together a van or a truck that was believed to have carried the ex­plosives. An axle of the vehicle was found about two blocks from the scene, the source said. 
Their clothes torn off, victims covered in glass and plaster emerged bloodied and crying from the building, which looked as if a giant bite had been taken out of it, exposing its floors like a dollhouse. 
Cables and other debris dan­gled from the floors like tangled streamers in a scene that brought to mind the car bomb­ings at the U.S. Embassy and Marine barracks in Beirut in 1983. 
"I dove under that table," said Brian Espe, a state veteri­narian who was giving a slide presentation on the fifth floor. "When I came out, I could see daylight if I looked north and daylight if I looked west." 
Mayor Ron Norick said the blast, which left a crater 30 feet long and 8 feet deep, was caused by a car bomb. He said the vehicle had been outside, in front of the building. 
"Obviously, no amateur did this," Gov. Frank Keating said. "Whoever did this was an ani­mal." 
Police Sgt. Bill Martin said that 12 of those killed were children. 
Earlier in the day, paramedic Heather Taylor said 17 children were dead at the scene, a figure later disputed by police. Dr. Carl Spengler. one of the first doctors at the scene, said the children, all at the day-care center. ranged in age from 1 to 7, and some were burned beyond recognition. 
About 20 of 40 children in the day-care center were missing late in the day. 
The search continued after nightfall, with about 100 Oklahoma Army National Guard soldiers activated to help with rescue and security opera­tions in the downtown area. 
The explosion, similar to the terrorist car bombing that killed six people and injured 1,000 at New York's World Trade Center in 1993, hap­pened just after 9 a.m., when most of the more than 500 fed­eral employees were in their offices. 
Black smoke streamed across the skyline, and glass, bricks and other debris were spread over a wide area. The north side of the building was gone. 
Christopher Wright of the Coast Guard, one of those help­ing inside the building, said res­cuers periodically turned off their chainsaws and prying tools to listen for pleas for help, "but we didn't hear anything­just death." 
"You're helpless really, when you see people two feet away, you can't do anything, they're just smashed," he said. 
Doctors had to amputate one woman's leg to free her. 
"She was lying underneath a beam. It was obvious that she could not be extracted alive," said Dr. Andy Sullivan. "The attempt to remove the concrete beams would have caused the rest of the building to collapse. So at that point there was no decision made other than to crawl into the space and per­form the amputation to get the patient out." 
e nine-story Alfred P. Federal Building, just · the spot where the car 
omb exploded. Toys and games were scattered amid broken glass and other debris on the street. 
,... ··~.t was really terrible with 
·· t}le'{YMCA) day-care center," said state Rep. KeVin Cox. who was a ha.lf-block away when 
a.n:J< blast. occu~.red. es were crying 'and 
.....,, ...li'.• with blood and 
insulation on their 
..,a,P•'"''•·•··w• 'f'1.r·M.aLucJn::; broadcast a de­of an injured red­...,,....'"'" toddler, asking for her palcents to contact the hospital bec:am;e she needed surgery, It , .......... n. olear·wbich day-care she had been taken from, nor if her parents were among the Victims. 
''At the time it blew up, the place (in the federal building} u ....,. •• ". should have been full" with · parents dropping off their chil­
dren, Spengler said. 
The docto.r said all 17 chil­dren were killed at the day­care center at the federal building. 


ot in the Planner Hall pit, I have been called to recognize the Body of Christ in our midst. 
This Saturday, two of my friends, Jim Foster, C.S.C. and John Herman, 
C.S.C. will be ordained priests at 1:30 p.m. in the Basilica. They will join the ranks of the "baby priests" of Holy Cross. No doubt, they have Learned a Lot during six years of preparation to be Holy Cross priests. No doubt, they have realized that they have a lot to learn as well. Their image of leadership is Jesus on His knees, washing the feet of His followers. They are talented. 
-

Thursday, April 20, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Gerber's good humor, Hayes to address race matters 
holiness remembered 
By AIMEE HEIMANN Abraham, and once Sarah woman who inaugurated Saint News Writer heard of this, she demanded Mary's pioneering progress in the release of Hagar. This theology, Sister Madeleva, 
The eleventh annual Madel­story brings up the issue of eth­C.S.C. eva Lecture featuring Diana nic prejudices and the op­Diana Hayes, who is also an Hayes, a professor of theology pression of Hagar. attorney who served with the at Georgetown University, and Hayes offers an eloquent plea United States Department of entitled "Hagar's Daughters: to Christian African-American Labor and New York state, was Womanist Ways of Being in the women to free themselves of the first Black woman to earn a World" will be held tonight at this oppression, and she high­Doctor of Sacred Theology at 
7:30 p.m. in the Little Theatre lights the diversity, richness, the Catholic University of Lou­of Moreau Hall at Saint Mary's. and power of the Black woman. vain, Belgium. Her area of Admission to this event is free, According to Sister Roseanne specialization is systematic the­and it is sponsored by the Cen­Schultz, C.S.C., of the Center for ology with an emphasis on ter for Spirituality. Spirituality, "The Madeleva Black liberation and womanist 
Hayes' lecture will focus on Lecture series is designed to theologies. the history of African-American provide a public forum for out­Dr. Hayes will have breakfast and Caucasian relations and standing spokeswomen for the and lunch with students and will examine the establishment Catholic Tradition in the post­will also meet with faculty in of identity in these relation­Vatican II Era." the morning following the lec­ships, looking at the common­The speakers who are invited ture. She will be available for alties as well as the differences. to these lectures are well discussion immediately follow­She will also discuss how to known women theologians who ing the lecture as well as at survive and live in hope in to­address issues in society and 2:30 p.m. this afternoon. This day's society and also how to offer insight and challenges to gives students an opportunity to maintain human dignity. us to think. Past speakers be in dialogue concerning these 
"We stand as beacons of hope have included Elizabeth issues as well as the relevance and also as bearers of culture," Johnson, Monika Hellwig, and of these issues at Saint Mary's. says Hayes. Sandra Schneiders. Her book, published by 
In the Bible, the book of Gen­According to Schultz. the lec­Paulist Press, will be available esis, Hagar was a Black slave ture commemorates the open­for purchase at the lecture. belonging to Sarah, the wife of ing of the Center for Spirituality Abraham. She bore a child by honoring the memory of the 
Pi Lambda Theta inducts ten 
Special to The Observer san Hodapp, Shelley Lebiedzin­association in education. The 
ski. Jennifer Moore, Nancy students all had outstanding
The following students from Schwoyer, Julie Polek. For el­academic records, 3.5 or high­the Saint Mary's College ementary education from Notre er, and demonstrated leader­teacher education program Dame: Tara Higgins and Mary ship abilities that qualified 
were inducted into Pi Lambda Rottenborn. them for membership. 
Theta. Students from both For secondary education form Pi Lambda Theta's mission Saint Mary's and the University Saint Mary's College: Trish includes promoting academic of Notre Dame belong to the Genovese, Shiela Roth and excellence at all educational program. Maria Vogel. For secondary levels, providing leadership de­
For elementary education education from Notre Dame: velopment for all of the mem­from Saint Mary's College: Brendan Gardiner and Erica bers, fostering an environment Linda Coleianne, Autumn Madill. for professional growth, and Fields, Maureen Frett, Cheryl Pi Lambda Theta is an inter­recognizing outstanding educa­Gillilard, Jane Grabowski, Su-national honor and professional tors. 
By EDWARD IMBUS 
News Writer 
Father John Gerber, a Holy Cross priest influential at Notre Dame for twenty years, passed away Easter Sunday in the company of his family and friends. He was 65. 
Nearly 1,000 attended his fu­neral mass on Tuesday at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
Those who attended the ser­vice celebrated Gerber's active life, which included outreach to graduate students and faculty, serving on the University Board of Trustees and as a high-level religious superior, and teaching at all levels of education. 
Friends remembered Gerber for his good humor and holi­ness. 
"He was a mentor to a lot of people," said Father David Jenke, the rector of the Fischer Graduate Residences. "He was a· very prayerful, spiritual man deeply loved by the community and loved Notre Dame just as much." 
Gerber spent the last four years working for Campus Ministry and was responsible for all programs for graduate students and faculty. 
In the course of his duties, he served as chaplain in Fischer and organized several activities for the graduate students, such as celebrating mass and coordi­nating luncheons for Fischer residences. 
For the faculty, Gerber 
created and coordinated the "Timely Topics" and "Faith and Professionalism" series. 
He also formed a singles group for the faculty, which was well-received. 
Gerber began his career at Notre Dame in 1957, teaching in the department of English for many years until 1971, when he left Notre Dame to teach at St. Michael's grammar school in Arizona to a predomi­nantly Navajo Indian student body. 
Upon returning to Notre Dame in 197 4, Gerber became religious superior of the Holy Cross priests at the University, as well as liturgical coordinator too. 
"He was able to hold the community together in times of rapid change ... showing a mix of reverence for tradition with change," said Jenke. 
He left the University in 1979 after being named Assistant Provincial Superior of the Indi­ana Province of the Congrega­tion of the Holy Cross, which spans well beyond the entire western United States. 
He later returned to Notre Dame in 1984 to be the superi­or of Moreau Seminary until joining Campus Ministry. 
Good friends, however, also talk with delight of Geber's hockey prowess, calling him "an absolute terror" in college and congregational matches. 
He is survived by his brother, three sisters, and his mother. 
r -~ 
I I 
You could rent any truck. Then again, you could've gone to any school. 

Tlit'l"t' an· llitill:'iltitl:--,Ji· t'tdi<'g<'S tllll lill'l'l'. l:orllltl<lll'iy, you 111atl<• <1 good l'iloi<'<'. Now tllak<· lilt' rt! . .dlii'IHI\t't' 11lt<'ll \ott''''"''· i{<•Jit a lnwk lru111 Hyder. 
lhdr·r lll<lkt·:--\till!' l;ltl\1' ca:-;v. \\ itl1 a t'OII\I'lli<'lll 1()11-fn·<· 1'<':-i<'l'\llli()ll lllllllil('r. l:icl!ll. l'<'liald<· \l'itll'it·~ ilt<tl an· ,:a~y 111 hul <111;1 drivt•. Fll~l pr<H't':'!'itlg [() :-;pt'<'d up cil<'f'k-itl <IIIII dwck-out. :\11d ll ~ 1-IHIIII' lltl;ttl:-:itlt· \:-;:-;i:'lllllt't'i.itlf' i't~r ilt•lpaltill;,! Ill<' 1\ll~. 
l'llt--. \tl\11' :-iludc·nl Jl) c•nlilkii ~ou lo iiJwt·ial ii<l\illl!-'·"! ~~~ pttl y11lll' t•tltll'<ll\1111 111 gtlllliiiSt' .1t1tl t ;til 1-:\00-( ;( l-lt11 ll:i{ r ll)i-tJ:U71. 

South Bend South Bend South Bend South Bend Mishawaka RTR Jack's Tra1ler Sales Ciras Marathon Tom's Car Care Jaccar Inc. 2715 N. Bendix Dr. 51370 US. 33 Norlh 1914 S. Miami SL 3201 Sugar Maple Ct. 1714 East 12t11 SL 
(219) 289-6721 (219) 288-0316 (219) 255-44 1 7
(219) 277-3550 (219) 277-9799 
i_______________________________________, 
---~----­
page6 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, April 20, 1995 
Lugar throws hat into GOP presidential ring 
By JOHN KING 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 

Offering himself as the candi­date of "straight talk and seri­ous action," Sen. Dick Lugar joined the 1996 presidential race Wednesday pledging to abolish the federal income tax and provide steady leadership in world affairs. 
The Indiana Republican, a onetime lay Methodist minister, also promised if elected to spearhead an "American spiri­tual renewal." He blamed a de­cline in community, family and moral values for rising teen pregnancy and troubling rates of school dropouts and violent crime. 
Lugar's announcement speech was sprinkled with sug­gestions that President Clinton lacked the standing to "rise to that challenge of reinvigorating 
New rules promote lending 
By JAMES RUBIN Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Federal regulators adopted new rules today they said will promote more lending to mi­norities and low-income areas while easing the burden on banks to comply with the anti­discrimination laws. 
"These reforms help fulfill two important promises I made to the American people: to in­crease access to credit for all Americans and to decrease meaningless federal regulatory b.urdens," President Clinton said in a statement. 
Officials acknowledged the new rules will not please either banks or community groups completely, but said the code is a reasonable compromise. 
"This whole regulatory ap­proach is less about confronta­tion than about partnership," said Comptroller of the Cur­rency Eugene Ludwig. 
The Federal Reserve, the Of­fice of Comptroller of the Cur­rency and the Office of Thrift Supervision approved the new rules today. The Federal De­posit Insurance Corp. is expect to adopt them Monday. 
Officials said the regulations will help meet complaints by banks and other lenders that they are swamped with paper­work without. 
The new rules dropped a proposal that lenders be re­quired to list the race and gen­der of all small-business bor­rowers. 
Instead, banks will compile information on loans made to specific areas using census data as a guide to whether low­and moderate-income neighborhoods are getting equal treatment. 
Officials said they hope Congress will give the new rules a chance to work and will refrain from passing bills that could gut anti-discrimination laws. There are numerous pro­posals by Republicans in Congress to relax the rules well beyond what was adopted to­day. 
The key regulations are part of the Community Reinvest­ment Act, a 1977 law intended to expand credit availability to minorities and the poor and to counter "redlining" -a prac­tice of excluding neighbor­hoods that are regarded as poor credit risks. 
American moral character.'' future." 
"Our risks are too great and To that end, Lugar promoted our opportunities too many not the radical tax proposal he is to have a president with the ex­counting on to separate him perience, character and resolve from his rivals. to lead this great country at this The plan would eliminate the important time," he said. federal income tax, on both in­
His flat speech delivery was dividuals and corporations, as proof he will not be the charis­well as taxes on capital gains, ma candidate in the GOP field. estates, gifts and inheritance. He conceded as much, as well Instead, Americans would pay a as his status as a decided long national sales tax of roughly 17 shot. But he predicted voters percent. would warm to his ideas and Lugar said the plan would his studious style. dramatically increase the sav­
"My candidacy is grounded ings rate, produce thousands of on faith that Americans care new jobs because of increased deeply about their country," investment capital and prove a Lugar said. "Faith that Ameri­boon to U.S. companies because cans know that the presidency their products would be more is not entertainment. Faith that competitively priced in world Americans are not only willing markets. Critics of such plans but eager to support a say that sales taxes are easy to presidential candidate who raise, and that future presi­offers straight talk and serious dents could also revive the in­
action on issues that affect their come tax. Republican Indiana Senator Richard Lugar formally announced his lives and their children's candidacy yesterday for the 1996 presidential race. 

Courses available for general enrollment for the Fall of 1995 that fulfill the Fine Arts Requirements for the College ofArt & Letters. 
DEPT NO/SEC TITLE PROF CROSSLISTS 
ARHI 251101 Art Traditions 1 Rosenberg, C ARHI 411/01 Pre-Columbian Art Bradley, D ANTH 410 01; ARHI 511 01 ARHI 434/01 Romanesque Art ARHI 534 01; MI 467 01; MI 567 01 ARHI 443/01 Northern Renaissance Painting Rosenberg, C ARHI 543 01; MI 458 01; MI 558 01 
ARHI 444/01 High Ren!Mannerist Art-Italy Coleman, R ARHI 544 01; ROIT 544 01 ARHI 452/01 British Art Pyne, K ARHI 552 01; GSC 452 01 ARHI 462/01 20th Cent Art II, 1960-Present Haywood,R ARHI 562 01 
ARST 121S/Ol Drawing I Forman,R ARST 121S/02 Drawing I Chiantello, A ARST 121S/03 Drawing I Hoag, J ARST 133S/O 1 Painting I Tomasula, M ARST 133S/02 Painting I Kinsey, D ARST 231 S/0 1 Watercolor I ARST 285S/01 Photography I Hilpert, M COTH 285S Ol ARST 285S/02 Photography I Gray, R COTH 285S 02 ARST 285S/03 Photography I Lopez,M COTH 285S 03 ARST 289S/01 Silkscreen I Dibble, J ARST 291 S/0 1 Etching I Chapman, R ARST 293S/01 Lithography Studio Dibble, J 
DESN 111S/01 2-D Foundations Poole, C DESN 217S/O 1 Visual Dialogue I Down, P 
COTH 104/01 Basics of Film & Television Collins, J COTH 204 01 COTH 104/02 Basics of Film & Television Radner, H COTH 20402 COTH 105/01 Introduction to Theatre Auerbach, B COTH 205 01 COTH 105/02 Introduction to Theatre Donnelly, R COTH 205 02 COTH 204/01 Basics of Film & Television Collins, J COTH 104 01 COTH 204/02 Basics of Film & Television Radner, H COTH 104 02 COTH 205/01 Introduction to Theatre Auerbach, B COTH 105 01 COTH 205/02 Introduction to Theatre Donnelly, R COTH 105 02 
ENGL 200/01 Intro to Creative Writing ENGL 200/02 Intra to Creative Writing ENGL 200/03 Intra to Creative Writing ENGL 301/01 Fiction Writing Benedict, M ENGL 301/02 Fiction Writing Benedict, M ENGL 302/01 Poetry Writing Matthias, J 
MUS 220/01 Introduction to Music Rutledge, C MUS 221/01 Introduction to Jazz Wiskirchen, G MUS 223/01 Intra to Mozart's Operas Maloney, P MUS 226/01 Introduction to American Music Phillips, J 
Ifstudents have questions about courses not listed here, they should come to the Office of Undergraduate Studies in 101 O'Shaughnessy. 
-----~---­
Thursday, April 20, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Kochiyama: Activism essential to college life 
Human rights activist questions Hoosier States openness to Asian Pacific American movement, social change 
By MELANIE LAFLIN 
News Writer 
Student activism and popular interest are necessary ingredi­ents for social change, accord­ing to Yuri Kochiyama, Japanese-American human rights activist, who lectured last night on "Passion for Life" at DeBartolo Hall. 
Kochiyama has worked as a Japanese-American human rights activist for the past forty years and has been involved with several movements includ­ing the worldwide nuclear dis­armament movement, Malcolm X and the Black Liberation movement, the Japanese­American Hedress movement and the International Political Prisoner Hights movement. 
Koehiyama began her speech by commenting on how she had "never dreamed of coming to this midwestern state." 
Her research on the state of Indiana began with examining the state bird, state flower, and the "Hoosier" and ended with a startling figure of 37,617 Asian­Pacific Islanders living in Indi­ana. This led Kochiyama to q\)estion how open Indiana was to social activism. 
According to Kochiyama, the Asian Pacific American move­ment began in the late 1960's. 
"Something phenomenal hap­pened -young students chal­lenged the status quo, charis­matic anti-establishment lead­ers arose, and Asian Pacific Americans finally felt proud, stood tall, and recognized their lack of knowledge of Asian cul­ture and history," said Kochiyama. 
This quest for greater knowl­edge on Asian culture coincides with the goal of some North­western students in the audi­ence who revealed they were on the eighth day of their self­imposed hunger strike to get an Asian-American Studies De­partment at their university. 
"Students in all types of uni­versities promoted racial un­derstanding after the L.A. riots. If coalition building is difficult to achieve on this campus, con­tinue to build social awareness and create a sense of mission because you can make a differ­ence," Kochiyama stated firmly. 
"We can transform society by ourselves. You'll be planting seeds for tomorrow's students. Your mission is what you think is relevant for your time," she declared. 
"This country made color a criteria for acceptance and non-acceptance. Despite the saying that America is proud of our immigrants, we have found immigrant-bashing to be a pop­ular past time. We're here because of their courage and sacrifice." 
Kochiyama specifically ad­dressed the Asian-Americans. "Our responsibility is to bring all Asian-Pacific-Americans in our embrace and all people. Let's represent Asian Pacific Americans and leave a legacy that we can all be proud of," stated Kochiyama. 
Kochiyama's speech stirred up many of the frustrations felt by Notre Dame students in the audience. One student com­mented, "People just don't care and seem completely apathetic to anything outside their own closed surroundings." 
"This Catholic Disneyland in which we're living in is filled with closed-minded people who should get out and read some­thing besides The Observer," criticized one student. 
When asked how after forty years of social activism Kochiyama is still going strong, Kochiyama replied that it is the new generation of fervent stu­dents who bring in new ideas and motivate each other that keep her involved. 
"There are always injustices, so we have to keep going; there's always so much to get done," said Kochiyama. 


ADDENDUM 
Additional Courses Available for general enrollment for the Fall of 1995 that fulfill the Fine Arts Requirements. 
DEPT  NO/SEC  
ARST ARST ARST ARST  149S/01 149S/02 209S/01 209S/02  
ARST ARST ARST ARST ARST ARST ARST ARST ARST  209S/03 241S/01 243S/01 245S/01 247S/01 309S/01 321S/01 325S/01 333S/01  
DESN DESN DESN DESN DESN DESN DESN  218S/01 281S/01 282S/01 315S/01 316S/01 319S/01 330S/01  

TITLE 
3-D Foundations 3-D Foundations Ceramics I Ceramics I 
Ceramics I Wood Sculpture Metal Foundry Metal Sculpture I Figure Sculpture Ceramics II Drawing II Figure Drawing Painting II 
Intro to Product Design Graphic Design I Digital Image Making Advertising -Corporate Advertising Brands Typography I Furniture Design I 
PROF 
Collins, A Collins, A Kremer, W Koukhanova, I 
Jablonski, J Bovo,P Choy, C Pierce, S Flanigan, J Jablonski, J 
Flanigan, J Kinsey, D 
Herr,M Poole, C Cunningham, S Beckman, F Beckman, F Sherman, J Herr,M 




If students have questions about courses not listed here, they should come to the Office of Undergraduate Studies in 101 O'Shaughnessy. 


page 8 The Observer • NEWS Thursday,. April20, 1995 
scholarships, and grants given quent reason for students to at­out to 5,300 students. This fig­tend or not attend a certain
Tuition 

ure represents 4 percent school. growth from last year's total of Rooney maintains that there
continued from page 1 

$53, 348,000 given to 5,450 is nothing in the immediate fu­students. ture coming out of Washington she says, "There needs to be When asked to comment on that would affect students cur­more aid. Students should be the possible reductions in fed­rently attending Notre Dame. 
able to go to the school of their e~al aid funding, Joseph Russo, He said he would rather seechoice (regardless of financial Director of Financial Aid said the government put moreobstacles)." 
his.orfice is not in~orpo;ating money into grants for studentsWhile both Malloy's letter and pohcie.s based on something with financial need. "Investingthe Colloquy For the Year 2000, that might happen. But if some­in students is a good use of
have also listed her concern 
thing happens, we'll react." money."
among their top goals, Rohrs Russo said Financial Aid is With the increase in roomsaid that it was hard to believe continually prepared to assist and board, the lure of off-cam­that tuition costs are rising at students on an annual basis pus housing may become moresuch a high rate. 
~th new costs and new family appealing to students looking to But Notre Dame may not be Circumstances taken into con­save money.
the only place costs are rising. 
sideration. He also stated that Lafayette Square charges
Malloy's letter is careful in 
the office is working intensely $790 per month for a four bed­
pointing out that the "total 
and hopes to finish with appli­room apartment and $975 forcharges for tuition, room. and cations by mid-June. five bedrooms. That breaksboard continue to be low when "College costs are an impor­down to $1975 or $1950 percompared to those of 108 other tant concern for anyone as they student per year. 
private colleges and universi­c~oose their university," said Campus View Apartmentsties." 
Director of Admissions Kevin cost about $4800 per year for a
Despite the Congressional 
Rooney when asked how the one bedroom apartment. A two
agenda, the administration 
tuition increase might affect bedroom apartment costs near­plans to expand its financial aid next year's admissions. He stat­ly $2340 per person for a nine­
program, which at mid-year 
ed that affordability is a fre-month lease. 
stood at $57,706,000 in loans, 
"How far we come, how much she mentioned her desire to we stay the same," she said. "nurture the young ones that
Richards 
As ~art of t~e struggle facing come along" and her intention Amencans, Richards said that to "lobby members of Congress 
continued from page 1 

inflation is contributing to and the President, as I do now weak!l~ss in the economy. In about issues that matter to me.':
crime, drug abuse, the over­descrtbmg the state of inflation Speaking about what the fu­sight of women and minorities Richards said that it is causing ture holds for Americaanti-immigrant sentiment, and "speed bumps on the road to Richards said. "It's not the fu~~he .~elief that Washington, D.C. 
economic recovery." ture that's the challenge. The
IS out of touch" with the 
Many Americans are experi­challenge is us." 
American people. This current encing financial insecurity, ac­"The future lies in education,
state has come as a result of 
cording to Richards, who men­job training, and gentle hearts," people, not Democrats or Re­tioned jobs, income, pension, she said. "Notre Dame plays apublicans, she said. 
and Social Security as reasons role in this because of the
According to Richards 
for concern. necessity of loving your fellow"Things are the way they ar~ And this is obvious, according man. People deserve our nur­
because human beings were 
to Richards. "You don't need a turing regardless of color, gen­involved." 
pollster to tell you what's der, and income level." 
"That's the way things are in 
wrong," she said. When asked by a member of'95 -" she said. "It is 1895 in Relating this assessment to the audience what she wantsAmerica, not 1995. We are re­
the presidential election to be remembered for
peating the whole spectrum of ideas I just laid out before you." ~ic.hards said that third partie~ Richards, whose list of accom~ 
. wlll be takei_I more seriously" plishments as governor in­Asking, "Who are we as a na­m the campaign for America's cludes creating jobs, loweringtion?" and "Where are we go­top office in 1996. the state budget increase, anding?" Richards compared the In describing her own future tripling the minimum sentencecurrent state of the U.S. to last Richards said she has no plan~ for capital murder, respondedcentury, saying that "in 1895, to run for political office. with a saying that she does notour national identity struggled "Too many of us 'stay in want written on her tombstone:to stay afloat." 
there' too long," she said, and "She kept a really clean house." 
ATTENTION SENIORS! 
Kick off Senior Month 
TONIGHT 
at Senior Bar! 
"Everything's A Dollar" 
P.S. Don'tjorget to buy your class cruise tickets today! 

Concert 
continued from page 1 
but no suitable band could be hired on such short notice. 
Student Activities Program Coordinator Rob Laux explained that plans were changed when previously unknown incidents were brought to light after further investigation by Notre Dame Security. 
"Phil Johnson [assistant di­rector of Notre Dame Security] made a suggestion to Student Activities Board, and the office as a whole made the decision not to hold the concert." 
He added that other depart­ments, such as the Office of Risk Management, the General Counsel, the Office of Business Affairs and Student Affairs, were also consulted and voiced concerns. 
·Johnson asserted that Secu­rity neither books nor cancels campus concerts; however, they do investigate and give a rec­ommendation to Student Activities. 
"Student Activities books and can.c~ls concerts. In making decisiOns, they consult with a variety of people in terms of de­veloping a plan in safety and security," he said. "We provide feedback as far as our comfort level with the concert." 
These factors include who the concert will be marketed to (mostly students), the venue (Stepan Center) and the time of year. 
"The number of security offi­cers that will be needed and the tendenc~ for moshing, among other thmgs, must be consid­ered at any concert," he added. "There were a number of con­cerns with the Digable Planets." 
.The concert was to have taken place April 26, and the show was officially canceled April 7. 
If the Digablc Planets show had occurred, it would have mar~ed the first time a rap music act performed on the Notre Dame campus for a stu­dent show. 
"I'm very disappointed," said Adams. ''I'm disappointed for all the people who for worked hard on this, and I'm disap­pointed for the students that there won't be a show." 
According to Adams, plans to host Digable Planets began to take shape in January, and SUB sought University approval through normal channels. 
According to Adams, all de­partments contacted had given SUB permission to pursue the band initially. 
"When we investigate having a concert, Security puts out a posting on the Internet that reaches other college security offices to see if other schools have had a problem with a band in the past," said Adams. 
Plans for a concert by the band Pearl Jam were scrapped last year when Security was in­formed of a disturbance at one of the group's concerts in Col­orado," Adams said. 
After researching Digable Planets in the same manner, Adams said Security found no problems they deemed signifi­cant enough to not invite the group. 
"It was originally approved," Laux added, but stated that af­ter further investigation, an in­cident at a concert in Buffalo, 
N.Y. was discovered. 
Laux said this prompted fur­ther investigation into the acts past performances, which led to the withdrawal of the verbal offer. 
According to Adams, an al­leged brawl broke out among fans at a concert in Buffalo 
N.Y. ' Conflicting press releases regarding the event caused confusion as to what really oc­curred, leading to further in­vestigation. 
"It was not one incident that caused the concert to be can­celed," Laux stressed. "When 
we heard about [the Buffalo in­cident] we looked more, and the more we looked the more we found." 
The Digable Planets is a rap trio whose latest album Blowout Comb, was released i~ 1994. They received a Grammy for Best Rap Perfor­mance by a Duo or a Group in 1993. 
G0LF 
Notre Dan1e 

STUDENT RATES WEEKDAYS$5 WEEKENDS$6 SPRING PASS $30 
Pro Shop HQurs of Operation Weekdays 6:30 a.m.-4:00p.m. Weekends 6:00 a.m.-4:00 p.m. 
Tee Times Available Friday & Weekends 
631-6425 

Thursday, April 20, 1995 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Soilders patrol streets Chechen war hits new phase 

~'asy'iV~tG& 
Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets k Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
Clocktower Square 
~~~~ho ie~~~~h46637 (219)277-1291 

THE NEW YORK nMES, Janet Maslin 
"TREMENDOUS FuN! ExHILARATING! 
~ work of blazing originality! Bravo!" 
NEW YORK MAGAZJNE., Dilllid Denby 
IIECSTA71CALLY ENTERTAINING! One of the great wild rides of recent cinema!" 
ROLUNG STONE., Pr!ter Tl'illlefS 
''INDISPUTABLY GREAr! FEROCIOUS FuN! The action siules! The acting is dynamite!" 
of Bolivia after strike 
By PETER McFARREN 
Associat~d Press 
LA PAZ, Bolivia 

An army-enforced calm re­turned to the capital and other cities Wednesday after the gov­ernment declared a state of siege and arrested dozens of labor leaders to end weeks of violent protests by strikers. 
Soldiers patrolled the streets of La Paz and other cities, and hundreds more were mobilized in country's coca leaf produc­ing region. 
The government called for the 90-day state of siege Wednesday after talks failed to end a six-week strike by teach­ers and a month-old strike by other government workers. The strikers had clashed almost daily with poliee, who used tear gas and rubber bullets. 
Despite the protests, the gov­ernment of President Gonzalo Sanehez de Lozada is not eon­sidered in danger: The military firmly supports democraey, the eeonomy is growing at a healthy 4 percent a year, ex­ports are up and the estimated 8 percent inflation rate is one of the lowest in South America. 
The Bolivian Workers Con­federation, which represents most labor organizations in the country, opposes government efforts to privatize most state companies. The teaehers' union also opposes an overhaul of the educational system that would improve schools but eliminate job security. 
Elite police units raided the confederation's headquarters and arrested dozens of labor leaders who were meeting to reject an agreement that would have ended their strike. 
"The growing social unrest, whieh was politically motivat­ed, could have had disastrous effects on Bolivia," said Labor Minister Reynaldo Peters. 
After rebel loss general expects little resistance 
By JULIA RUBIN Associated Press 

SAMASHKY, Russia 
Samashky lies in ruins. To the south, clouds of smoke above the rebel strongholds of Bamut and Arshty on Wednesday indi­cated those towns faced the same fate. 
The fall of western Chechnya signals a new and, perhaps, more protracted phase in Rus­~ia's four-month war in the breakaway republic. 
Driven into the southern mountains or underground, the rebels are now left to wage what they have long threat­ened: a partisan war. 
Hussia's commander in Chechnya said his troops now control 80 pereent of the re­public and expect little resis­
tance from the rebels except occasional "hit-and-run" at­tacks. 
"I think (rebel president Dzhokhar) Dudayev does not have the social or economic base to continue fighting," Col. Gen. Anatoly Kulikov told a Moscow news eonference. 
But others are less certain. 

"Today, new tactics are being born right before our eyes," said Ruslan Aushev, president of neighboring lngushetia. "There will be no more concen­trated actions. Now the resis­tance has spread." 
Aushev said Dudayev's forces are relying increasingly on quick strikes from mountain bases. 
The Russian reliance on airstrikes may prove less e!Tec­tive in the narrow valleys and forests of the Caueasus Moun­tains, where the rebels are re­grouping. 
Russian planes have been fir­ing nearly every day in the re­
gion of Vedeno, the fortress town of the 19th-century Chechen resistance leader, Imam Shamil. 
Tamara Kalayeva, a Vedeno resident who came to In­gushetia on Wednesday to help plan a protest march, said both fighters and refugees are hiding in the mountain forests. 
"They'll keep hiding wher­ever they can be free," she said. "This war won't end for many generations, that's for sure." 
The storming of Samashky this month caused heavy civil­ian losses, and the foothill towns of Bamut and Arshty remained under fire Wednes­day. 
Hussia's control of the rest of Chechnya remains porous. 
Hussia's Federal Security Service said this week that hun­dreds of rebels "disguised as refugees" were re-entering the Chechen capital to wage guer­rilla attacks. 


10. Where else can you scream, "condom", and "diaphragm"? 
9. It doesn't matter if you're from over there...or from over there. ...or whatever... 
8. Free nipple piercing! 

7. Even the gimp is waking up for this one! 
6. 'Cause they let the mother die on E.R.... How could they? The Jerks! 
5. Irish Aeeent is like a box of chocolates. 
4. We only use "free-range" comedians. 
3. We're crazy, sexy, cool! 

2. Your mom loved the dress rehearsal. 
I. Our hlack market babies are discount priced! 
Don't forget!!! 
Irish Aeeent Show Thursday, April20 9:00p.m. LaFortune Ballroom 
"Morefwt than a barrel ofmonkeys going over Niagara Falls" --P. T. Barnum 
5K RACE FOR EDUCATION SAT. APRIL 22, 1995, 9 A.M. 
SIGN-UP AT DINING HALLS, LA FORTUNE, & LAW SCHOOL ON APRIL 12, 13, 19, 20, & 21, and ON-SITE AT LAW SCHOOL 
RUNNERS GET A FREET-SHIRT (WITH DESIGN BELOW) 
page 10 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, April 20, 1995 
Pilgrims fly Libyan jet, Student held after threats 
The three-paragraph, hand­The federal court documents
violating UN sanctions Dartmouth senior printed letter, on file in federal accuse Lightfoot of "knowingly court, uses racial and ethnic depositing in the United States
By ANTHONY SHADID Burns said. 
menaces alumni epithets and sexual vulgarities, mails a written communication 
Associated Press He noted that the ban on 
complains of letters received which contained threats to in­
Libyan airliner flights was still official, wife from the association and jure two individuals."
TRIPOLI, Libya in place. Egypt, he said, is to 
threatens to lynch Morris Whitaker declined to com­
By ADOLPHE BERNOTAS 
Libya flew a planeload of communicate with the U.N. 
Whitaker and rape and kill his ment on the incident, and calls
Associated Press 

Muslim pilgrims from Tripoli to Sanctions Committee on routes 
wife. Wednesday to his Charlotte,
Saudi Arabia on Wednesday in and aircraft registration for the Sources speaking on condi­N.C., home were not answered.
CONCORD, N.H.
violation of U.N. sanctions flights. 
tion of anonymity told The As­Calls to the association
A mixed-race Dartmouth
against international air trav­"None of the aircraft involved sociated Press that Lightfoot, Wednesday also were not an­
College senior was being held
el. shall be owned by, leased from 24, was being held at the state swered.
for psychiatric evaluation
Ironically, Libya's act of defi­or controlled by Libya or any mental hospital in Concord to Court documents show the
Wednesday after allegedly
ance coincided with neighbor­Libyan entity," Burns said. 
determine if he is competent to letter was postmarked Nov. 2 in 
threatening to lynch a black
ing Egypt's success in convinc­If Libyan planes do fly out of be charged. White River Junction, Vt. It
alumni official and rape his
ing the U.N. Sanctions Commit­the country, Burns said, the The FBI said Lightfoot had bore a Dartmouth return ad­wife.
tee in New York to give a spe­United States expects member been in state custody for five dress. which the FBI said was
FBI documents filed in federal 
cial waiver for this year's pil­states concerned to enforce the days, but had not been arrested fictitious.
court said Anthony Lightfoot
grimage flight~. U.N. sanctions by refusing 
or arraigned. Under state law, The FBI documents identified
told officers who took him into
It was unclear if the waiver overflight and landing rights to 
people can be held for their Lightfoot as black, but his
custody in Hanover, home of
-which had stipulated that Libyan planes. 
own safety. mother, Ann Lightfoot of Lyn­
the Ivy League college, that he
any flights must be made by If any Libyan aircraft lands in FBI spokesman Peter Ginieres wood, Wash., said in a tele­
had written and mailed a letter
Egyptian jets -would remain a foreign country, he said, said Lightfoot would be arrest­phone interview he is "a com­
to the treasurer of the Black
in place. sanctions demand that it be de­ed on a federal complaint if the bination of white, black and In­
Alumni of Dartmouth Associa­
The U.S.-made Boeing 727 nied fueling and servicing. 
jet, which took off from the capital, Tripoli, at midday, ini­tially was reported to have landed in the Libyan city of To­bruk near the Egyptian border. 
But Saudi airport controllers reported that the Libyan jet landed in the Saudi city of Jid­dah before midnight (6 p.m. EDT). It carried 150 pilgrims from Libya and other African nations. 
A second Libyan jet, dis­patched from the coastal city of Benghazi, was expected to fol­low the Tripoli flight into Jid­dah, a city on the Red Sea near Mecca, Libyan sources in Cairo said. 
Libyan radio and television 
carried broadcasts of the 
arrival in Saudi Arabia and 
crowed about Libya breaking 
the three-year U.N. ban on 
flights into or out of Libya. 
A Libyan television corre­
spondent on the flight said the 
pilgrims chanted "God is 
great!" and "We are respond­
ing to your call, oh God!" as 
they disembarked on Saudi soil 
to make the pilgrimage, or haij, 
to Mecca, Islam's holiest site. 
The broadcasts prompted 
late-night celebrations on 
Tripoli's streets. 
About 3,000 people in private 
cars, police vans and a fire 
truck sped through downtown, 
honking their horns and flash­
ing their lights. Youths waved 
flags and portraits of Libyan 
leader Moammar Gadhafi and 
shouted "Intensify the chal­
lenge!" 
Egyptian air traffic control of­
ficials refused to confirm or 
deny that the Libyan jets had 
crossed the nation's airspace. 
State-run Egyptian television 
carried a tape of the Libyans' 
arrival in Saudia Arabia. Ironi­
cally, early editions of Egyptian 
newspapers reported that Libya 
had held the jets at Tobruk at 
the request of Egyptian Presi­
dent Hosni Mubarak. 
Egypt earlier in the day had 

won U.N. approval for a waiver 
to the sanctions allowing Egyp­
tian aircraft to ferry Libyan pil­
grims. The sanctions, imposed 
in April 1992, include a ban on 
international air travel, an 
arms embargo and a down­
grading of diplomatic links. 
The sanctions were designed 
to force Libya to turn over two 
suspects in the 1988 bombing 
of a Pan Am jet over Lockerbie, 
Scotland, that killed 270 peo­
ple. ' 
In Washington, State De­

partment spokesman Nicholas 
Burns on Wednesday said the 
United States supported the 
U.N. decision. He noted that the sanctions allow for humanitar­ian exceptions. 
"Our general view is that Libyan pilgrims should not be denied the right to pilgrimage and should not suffer for the actions of their government," 
state releases him. dian."
tion. 

Courses available for general enrollment for the Fall of 1995 that fulfill the Literature Requirements for the College of Arts & Letters. 
DEPT NO/SEC TITLE PROF CROSSLISTS 
AMST 371/01 Nature in America Weber,H.R. ENGL391B 01 
COAT 460/01 Gender Images Mod Japanese Fie Mikals-Adachi, E ENGL 425A 01; GSC 462 01 COCT 425/01 Greek Classics in Translation Hunt,J.W. COST 406/01 Modern Arabic Lit. in Translation Amar,J ENGL429 01 
ENGL 300F/Ol Poetry, Gender and Self-Identity Ruwe,D. ENGL 300K/Ol Tradition and 20th Century Writer Roessner, J. ENGL 300M/Ol Women Novelists and Male Theorists Winkiel, L. ENGL 3I6G/01 20th Century Mex. & Can. Lit. LeMay, A AMST 316E 0 I; liPS 316G 0 I ENGL 319 A/0 1 Native American Literature Soens, A AMST319EOI ENGL 319A/02 Native American Literature Soens, A AMST319E 02 ENGL 320/01 Dante Werge, T ENGL 321A/Ol Drama I: Aeschylus to Sheridan Martin, L COTH 321 01 ENGL 334/01 Chivalry, Romance, Spirituality Vasta, E MI 334 01 ENGL 340/0I Shakespeare Lordi, R ENGL 350/01 Origins of the Novel Johnson-Roullier, C ENGL 355/01 18th Century Poetry Jemielity, T ENGL 379E/01 Major African Writers Lyonga, N. AFAM 373 01 ENGL 384E/01 Afro-Amer Lit & Contemp Issues Peters, E AFAM 384E Ol ENGL 390C/Ol The Literature of "Bohemia" Strathman, C AMST 371 01 ENGL 392B/01 The American Novel Dougherty, J AMST398EOI 
GE 301/01 Survey of Medieval German Lit Wimmer, A GE5150I;MI581 01 GE 440/01 Goethe and His Time Grauman, A.H. GE 540 01 GE 475/01 Contemporary German Novel II Lanzinger, K GE 575 01 GE 491101 Evil and the Lie Profit, Vera GE591 01;LLGR491 01 
RU 473/01 19th Cent. Russian Literature I Reese-Antsakli 
RU 495/0I Dostoevsky (in English) Cruise, K 
LLRO 42110I Dante I Moevs, C ROIT 421 01; MI 422 01; ENGL 435A 01 LLRO 460/01 Outspoken Reading in Lit Jerrez-Farran, C GSC 460 01; ENGL 412F 01 
ROFR 310/01 Textual Analysis Toumayan,A ROFR 310/02 Textual Analysis MacKenzie, L ROFR 338/01 French Cultural Essays Martin, P ROFR 371/0I Survey of French Literature I Perry, C MI 371 01 ROFR 413/01 Voyages in Literature Douthwaite, J ROFR 485/01 Rep of Feminine 19th Cent Lit Perry, C GSC48601 
ROIT 421/01 Dante I Moevs, C MI 422 01; LLRO 42I 01; ENGL 435A 01 
ROSP 310/01 Textual Analysis Olivera, W ROSP 328/01 Survey of Spanish Amer Lit I Anadon,J ROSP 328/02 Survey of Spanish Amer Lit I Anadon,J ROSP 401/01 Medieval Spanish Literature Juarez, E MI 402 01 ROSP 411101 Golden Age Theater Delgado-Gomez ROSP 431101 19th Century Spanish Literature ROSP 450/01 Spanish Short Story Jerrez-Farran, C 
*Literature courses taught in a foreign language will also satisfy the literature requirement. 
Ifstudents have questions about courses not listed here, they should come to the Office of Undergraduate Studie' ::1 101 O'Shaughnessy. 
..' 


OINT 
Thursday, April 20, 1995 page 11 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucas Managing Editor Business Manager Suzanne Fry Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager...........................John Potter Viewpoint Editor......•........... Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ....................... Ryan Malayter Sports Editor............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor..................................Rob Finch Observer Marketing Director.......... Pete Coleman Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. lr does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either insliturion. The news is reponed as accuratdy and objectively as possible. Unsigned ali­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the amhors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 


John Gerber, the chaplain of the Fischer graduate residences, died on Easter Sunday. He had been very sick and was able to hold out until then. He was buried Tuesday, after an elaborate mass at the Basilica. His relatives presented the gifts. His brother made a little speech. Father Burrell gave a nice homily. I felt pretty out of it for most of the mass, to tell you the truth, not being a big one for funerals, especially public ones. And I also felt a lit­tle guilty. 
I knew Father Gerber fairly well. He was a solid man of medium build with silver hair and glasses and a square jaw, the very picture of Catholic intellectual strength. He used to shake my hand when he saw me and tell me how the column amused him but how some of the other brothers were not so crazy about it. Most of the graduate students knew him, and most of them had some topic-an older brother, a writer -they could exchange a few words on with Father Gerber. The main thing was that everyone liked and trusted him; the graduate students, you know, are for the most part alienated loners with one foot in the booby hatch. He made them feel like people, with his small talk and his post-mass cookie receptions and his firm handshakes and his sincerity. He was a hell of a rector; the sort of guy whom you can impose on at any hour of the night if you feel bad enough, with the deep assur­ance that he won't hold it against you. 
lie was a terrific homilist, too, since he projected the same sincerity in his sermon that he did in person -no mean feat given the robotism that comes over priests after thirty or so years on the job. Anyone, I for one, just took him for granted as a human being, attributing his kindness to profes­sional qualifications, like handspeed in a boxer. Then he got cancer. 
I don't remember if I saw him preach after I heard that. Everyone in Fischer got a little notice saying that Father Gerber had moved to the Holy Cross house, and that he wouldn't be graduate chaplain any more. That was a sad day, but you can be damn sure I didn't dwell on it. Cancer is cancer, and it's not something or talk about or think about if you can help it, and I couldn't. I didn't live in Fischer. I barely knew the man. But at the periphery of my consciousness, I thought of him sitting out there at the Holy Cross house with his inoperable cancer, the usual Catholic plati­tudes repeating themselves through my subconscious -"0 well, at least you know he'll go straight to heaven, world without end, etc.,-thank God it's not me-really should go visit him or at least write,-have I thanked God it's not me-maybe he'll get better, I'll pray for his recovery at mass tonight." 
Josh Ozersky 



And, needless to say, I never got around to visiting. I am ashamed to admit that I put off thinking about this holy man's mis­ery. I figured there was nothing I could say to him, and, anyway, he had better friends than me to give him nervous small talk. Then, a couple of months ago, I sat down to the 9 p.m. Mass at Fischer one day, and I saw Father Gerber sitting in the front row. It was announced that he would be giving the homily. 
He was frail. He looked like he had lost some hair. It turned out he couldn't walk much, or even stand up. He was battered by disease -nice way to treat your ser­vant! -and he still wanted to get up before us and express his pious sen­timents. I'll tell you right now that I dread­ed this. I wanted to put my arm around his shoulder; we all did; but I didn't want to hear some metaphysical explanation of his cancer. 
And we didn't. He sat in front of us, Father Gerber, and, before he could start talking, he just started weeping. My chest immediately tightened. Everyone was 
•  000NESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  
t.J)(X, KID, I JUST THINK YOU'O BE MORE COMFORT­ABU IN 50M£ OTHf.R 5&TT/NG THAN A (;R(){j)/J&D • ORPHANAGE...  !1'5 V&RY C.OMPUCAT&D. K/0. .. YOUR MOTHER AN/J1 JUST COUUJNT... (JJ£U... SH£ IJJA5 V&RY... UM... SHE-tOA?... UM..  AN/JP£0PL£ IJJONIJER (i)HY I '515T RR£5. I  

• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"public opinion's always in advance of the law." 
-John Galsworthy 


:ACCENT
page 12 Thursday, April 20, 1995 
I I 
I 
• CYBERSURF 
Making music on the Internet 
I
f music rules your life, then http://nearnet.­gnn.com/gnn/wic­/art.toc.html#mw:sic should be your most visited site on the Internet. This site contains the music portion of the Whole Internet Catalog, and 

is as diverse as the 
By Brian Zelizo 
music world itself. 
Accent Writer 

From this page, http://www.music.indiana.edu­/misc/music_resources.html is a great start. This mind-boggling page contains links to every music site imaginable (and a few you wouldn't have imagined). It is meticulously maintained by some very cool people at the Indiana University Music Library. 
Music Resources on the Internet contains links to everything from the Pearl Jam Home Page to the Fractal Music Project. Web sites, gopher sites, artist-specific sites, local music sites, record label sites, they are all there. 
I'd highly recommend the "User maintained info" and "Links to every band with a WWW page" sections. Since the whole catalog is crossrefer­enced so many ways, these are the easiest and most direct links for beginner and experienced surfers alike. 
One interesting page under the previously men­tioned site reflects the trend toward the "informa­tion superhighway" nicely. CDnow! is the self-pro­claimed "World's Largest CD Music store," and for good reason. "CDnow! is the undisputed king of the music cyberstores" according to the March 1995 issue of .net Magazine. 
Located under the address http://cdnow.com/, CDnow! has listings for over 140,000 COs, cas­settes, videos and T-shirts. They claim "discount prices," and one may very well find some, but other prices make the Bookstore look competitive. 
Nevertheless. their selling point is convenience, and at the top of every subpage is a listing of the items you have purchased, including shipping and handling costs. Everything is spelled out for you and easy to keep track of. Clicking on the cost of an item will put that item in your "What's the Damage" box, and the quantity of the purchase can be adjusted later. 
The whole site is very user-friendly and con­ducive to buying a lot of merchandise if you are not careful. Another page that caught my eye from the initial catalog was Adam Curry's Metaverse page under http://metaverse.com/ When you reach this home page, I recommend going to the "You Will" subdirectory. Using the http://youwill.com/radio.html is a shortcut to get you there. 
There you will find sound, text, and video clips of those cool commercials you see on television, plus some other new breakthroughs that have not been publicized. Adam Curry also provides daily dose of CyberSleaze which summarizes all the juicy news events of the music and entertainment industries. A shortcut to that page is http://meta­verse.com/vibe/sleaze/index.shtml and each daily entry is referenced by date. 
Lastly, located on the World Wide Web is a cool site best known as home to The Ultimate Band List, containing 3485 links for 1574 bands, includ­ing 1046 WWW Pages. You'll also fmd a trivia quiz and a couple of readerstake-over areas that make for good browsing. 
A set of links to other record companies, a site for all of your tour information needs, and the major music links, radio links. and a hot list are also at your fingertips. This site is located under the http://american.recordings.com/wwwofmu­sic/index.html address. 
Happy surfing! 
Cybersurf appears every Thursday in Accent. Brian Zelizo and Aaron Villaruz alternate as columnists. 
• MUSIC REVIEW 
SUPERCHUNKS SUPER SOUND 
By ALEX AGUIRRE 
Music Critic 
usual, I walked in late. After a quick trip to the 
bar I squeezed my way towards the stage. 
uperchunk had already started. Looking around, I noticed a (air amount of white hats, flannel and a lack of cigarette smoke. Oh that's right, the frat-brats came to see Belly. Slightly angered by the crowd's apathy towards one of the best rock bands around, I made my way towards the center and sipped my drink. Superchunk exploded with ferocity. 
Although the unappreciative crowd watched in igno­rance, Superchunk blasted a balance attack of material, new and old. Only a few heads bobbed up and down and an occasional moshing erupted. The midwestern crowd of mostly college students watched in confusion not knowing if this band was good or not. They just didn't get it. If they had remote '}''
controls, they would,,,, have changed the channel. I could hear them now in their best 
Beavis and Butthead #, imitations, " This band sucks, huh, huh. Yeah, Yeah ... " They contin­ued to gulp their beer and anxiously await the cool band, Belly. 
I jumped up and down with excitement as the chords ripped into the sea of still­ness. I watched in utter amazement as one the best indie­bands around tore through their set with no concern for the MTV alterna-geeks, young and old. 
The lead singer stared at his fingers ripping at the guitar, occasionally looking up to find the microphone, revealing his purple face, excited with strain. Laura jumped up and down in a passionate frenzy creating a pounding but delicate bassline. All backed by the bestial pounding of the lunatic drummer as he grimaced with every strike, like it was his first time. Absolute pas­sion.The night reached its climax with Jim's guitar solo in "Why do you have to put a name on Everything?" No, it wasn't your vintage arena-rock solo, like those of Corgan who lusts for attention every time he strikes a chord. No, Jim gently stroked his guitar as the bass and drums ceded. All you could hear in the building were the jaded but sweet riffs surrounding you, lifting you to that ethereal place you can only find in indie-rock. A purity. A crystal sound. 

4. Bruce Springsteen ­
Gre~~:'t:~its 

5. 
Encomium .. Tribute to Led Zeppelin 

6. 
2Pac -Me Again 



That was the beauty of it all. A pristine and innocent musical bashing of the crowd's apathy. A few of us yelled for more as the last chords echoed away from us. We knew we had witnessed something special and it had to end sometime, but we still made our futile attempt. I lit a cigarette. 
After a few drinks, Belly took the stage. Tonya Donelly walked to the microphone in a tight, green t-shirt with her hair straight but combed to the side. As the spot­light centered on her face, I was taken aback by her sculpted features. Someone from the crowd yelled, "show us your t..." quickly reminding me of where I was. Probably some kid from IU or maybe even from that bastion of intolerance, yes, Notre Dame. 
nk 
Donelly geekily swayed side to side, singing with extreme velocity. To her right. 
bassist Gail Greenwood, head­banged her long blonde (I think it was blonde) hair along with her own beats. Throughout the night she competed with Donelly for the Geeky Ham Award, dancing in place, arms and legs in a constant frenzied motion. 
Donelly, however, stole the show with her sweet, soprano vocals. Her geeky motions grew on you as she sang song after feathery song. The popness and melodic songs stimulated a forceful response. You had to like it. Your 

body wouldn't let you walk away. So I enjoyed myself. The MTV hit "Gepetto" drew a frenzied response from the sea of onlookers, prompting a few crashing waves, and of course, crowd surfers. 
For me the set culminated with the quiet hit, "Full Moon, Empty Heart." I bit my lip and succumbed to the snowball popness of the song. I sipped my beer. lit a cigarette and as Donelly's immaculate voice filled my ears, I thought, "Indeed this was a Good Friday." Okay, so I enjoyed Belly. I guess I got caught up in the moment. I did however, restore some pride and loyalty. As Belly rushed off the stage, I yelled, "Superchunk!" The night was over. With a sense of fresh optimism. I followed the masses into the cold Chicago night. Everything was alright. 
Alex Aguirre's music reviews appear every Thursday in Accent 

I I. Friday -Soundtrack 
12. White Zombie -Astro Creep 2000 
13. TLC -CrazySexCool I ~~'¥·pavement .. Wowee Zowee ·x·lS. Annie Lennox .. Med ;· 16.''1Qtsis -Definitely Mayl>e I 7. Sponge .... Rotting ,~~~~a 
I 8. Bus -ixteen Storie of 
---------~­

ACCENT ..
Thursday, April 20, 1995 page 13 
• MUSIC REVIEW 

By KEVIN DOLAN Music Critic 
The Roadapples 
yeah 

O
ne trip through the Hoadapples' 
album yeah shows a campus band 
that is good and only getting bet­ter. One of NO's finest bands, they man­age to establish a distinctive sound that is still more than accessible. 
On yeah, Hob Corley and company run the gamut from solid to brilliant, craft­ing eight songs that most listeners will bn hard pressed not to enjoy. The most evident strength of the band and the album comes from behind the mike. 
·Corley's voice is excellent. something like an American version of Morrissey, but without the whine. The songs on yeah have a strong degree of emotional detachment, and Corley walks the thin line between detachment and disinterest with perfect balance. 
His performance is not without flaws; there are occasional vocal phrasings (there's a lilting "ooh" in there some­where) that are a bit silly, but they are forgotten as soon as they are gone. 
The voice, however, floats above the music rather than cutting through it, and it blends quite well.Corley is, how­ever, hampered a great deal by the lyrics. 
There is no polite way to say this: Some of the lyrics are just not good. There are those who would argue that lyrics are not important as long as the voice is solid. 
That is true, if one is, say, Roland Orzabal of Tears For Fears, whose wordplays are interesting to follow even if they aren't terribly cohesive. 
Alas, that is not the case on songs like "Someday": "Everyone says there's other fish in the sea/ That's too bad for you, because maybe they'll like me." It makes an excellent case for not holding oneself to a rigid rhyme pattern. The frustrating thing is that often the lyrics are very good. 
On "Way," we're greeted with, of all things, alliteration-and they pull it off without a hitch. "West Virginia Girl," one of history's great driving songs, praises the subject sarcastically. 
"You know to all of us, you mean half the world." When the ability to write like that is so evident, there's no excuse for stuff like "The pounding in my head is just/ kind of annoying." 
Lyrics are, however, but one facet of an album, and in the remaining aspects of this album, the Hoadapples shine. Corley and lead guitarist Gene Warzecha form a guitar tandem that works very efficiently. Many of the songs, "Crazy" in particular, open up with fluid solo guitar riffs. 
They do run into trouble on some songs, where the difference between a fluid picked riff and crunching, distorted guitars becomes way too evident. 
However, there are also songs where that same distorted guitar holds a song together, like the album's final cut ''I'd Rather Do Nothing." 
The rhythm section holds its own as well. Bassist Joe Cruz, when he isn't lay­ing down a simple beat, shows flashes of excellence on "Enough" and ''I'd Rather Do Nothing." And drummer Eric Hintz is stellar throughout. 
Outstanding without being self-indul­gent, his is the most consistent individ­ual performance on the album. It swings, and while he and Cruz are tight like a rhythm section should be, Hintz isn't removed from the guitar work. 
Among the great individual work, some songs on yeah show where it all comes together for the Roadapples. "Live For Today" is the first song where they really let their hair down, and it causes a nearly irresistible urge to jump around and happily break things. 
On "Way," everything that is great about the Hoadapples comes to the fore, every member contributing their best performance. The verse is completely together, with more than a dash of funk, but it switches into a menacing chorus that makes the band sound like four heads attached to the same brain. 
Emotionally, "Way" runs toward pal­pable anger without screaming. It's a true work of art. There isn't a bad song on yeah: some are just better than oth­ers. The energy that runs through every song makes the album a thoroughly enjoyable listening experience. 

Domers who have been thinking about delving into the campus music scene would do well to start with this album. The Roadapples are developing a strong following on campus, and yeah gives every sign that they will only continue to improve-and impress. 
Kevin Dolan's music reviews appear every Thursday in Accent 

S
ingles was a great soundtrack. Reservoir Dogs 
was a great soundtrack. The Basketball Diaries is 
OK. There is certainly no lack of musical talent on this album. but the songs that the artists featured per­form are mediocre at best. There are only a few high­lights on this album, and unfortunately. they are over­powered by the abundance of disappointments. 
Featuring artists such as Pearl Jam, Soundgarden, 
P.J Harvey and The Cult, The Basketball Diaries Soundtrack does not live up to expectations. It is obvi­

The Basketball Diaries 
Soundtrack 
Island Records 
**~ 
out of five 

ous that the producers of this album have attempted to collaborate with renowned artists and duplicate the success of Singles. It is also clear that they tried to fol­low up on the success of Reservoir Dogs by including interludes of dialogue from the movie, but in both instances, they fell well short of their expectations. 
The album opens with a disappointing track featur­ing Pearl Jam minus Vedder, who is unfortunately replaced by vocally challenged Jim Carroll. Carroll makes appearances throughout the album, and judg­ing by the sixth song, "People Who Died." performed by the Jim Carroll Band, he should have been around in the early sixties with Frankie and Annette playing live with Dick Dale. His surfer rock, circa 1960 just doesn't cut it, especially when he accompanies a quali­ty band like Pearl Jam. Their musical talents just don't blend, instead they separate like oil and water. 
Making the first half of the album even worse is Rockers HiFi who attempt to make a hip hop contribu­tion-but they don't. Their song "What A Life" is an awful mix of The Artist Formerly Known As Prince and Snoop Doggy Dogg. The music sounds horrible, almost 
Livin' Lounge
Various Artists 
Continuum Records 
out of five 

eration of disco fans and Zeppelin Heads. Meanwhile, children who had grown up on Black Sabbath, Queen, Kiss and The Sex Pistols moved to Seattle and began grunge. Recently, we've seen a strong resurgence of funk music in its original, sampled and new formats, a return to Go-Go's style bubblegum pop through bands such as Tuscadero and Cub, and the punk revival. 
A new phenomenon has been scratching the surface of music today, and although it is best known for its two most famous veterans, some new musicians play­ing lounge music have been compiled by Continuum Hecords on an excellent collection entitled Livin' Lounge. In yet another era where Frank Sinatra is the King of Croon and where Tony Bennett can win a Grammy, the nation should be ready for a lounge craze. And how cool would that be? If everyone strut­ted around wearing shades and wondering, "When's the next party at?" we'd probably have a much happi­er country. 
On Livin' Lounge , the attitude is high class, city life 
**** 

as if it was recorded on an old, 1980's Casio keyboard with a drum pad. 
Luckily, dead smack in the middle is The Doors' "Riders on the Storm" which restores hope. This song is a sign of positive things to come. In the later half of the album featuring songs such as The Posies' guitar­heavy "Coming Right Along" and the Hadioheadesque "Strawberry Wine" performed by Massive Internal Complications, the quality of music increases. Following "Strawberry Wine" is arguably the best song on the album, besides "Hiders on the Storm." "Star," by The Cult, once again demonstrates Ian Astbury's musical genius, supported by the abilities of his equally impressive band mates, in this upbeat, hard rock num­ber that remains consistent with the band's previous work. 
Flea, from The Hed Hot Chili Peppers, makes a solo appearance with a folky, Jethro Tullish song that lacks innovation and leaves no lasting impression. However, his efforts are much more appreciated than Mr. Carroll's. 
Closing the album is Soundgarden. Their song "Blind Dogs" is, thankfully, characteristic of their music and very acceptable. A solemn and dark song that stirs up memories of Superunknown, "Blind Dogs" helps to salvage The Basketball Diaries. 
Listening to a soundtrack without having seen the movie is always difficult. But, in certain cases, such as Singles, the music is strong enough that it can make its own impression. This is not the case for The Basketball Diaries. One can only hope that the movie will salvage the feeble attempts of many of its musical contributors. 
-by Christian Stein, Music Critic 
seeps through the speakers, lavish organs splash abound, background vocals are of the smooth, doo­wop variety and the lead vocals are steamy and confi­dent. "You cannot not want me," schmmozes Andy Prieboy on the track, "Cannot Not." 
Soft, fluid vocals remain consistent throughout the slowest track on the disc, "Private Dick" by Donkey. A sassy Herb Alpert-influenced trumpet rumbles in the background as it sounds like the ending of a classic black and white 40's flick with a tragic ending. 
"Just One More," a track by Gallon Drunk, will cer­• tainly have you spilling rather than sipping your marti­ni; it features a driving guitar and primitive, powerful drums. The vocals are raw, stretching lounge sounds to its hardest extreme, while its thick, omnipotent or­gan splices keep its groove complete. 
A sound reminiscent of The Doors opens "Caravan" by the Useless Playboys. A gentle wind is interrupted by deep vocals and a slight cymbal procession. The • slowly mounting guitars introduce the rhythm section which becomes the lead singer's dance partner. 
The songs on Livin' Lounge sound like those of a party you'd never attend, but wish you could. It's not salsa, not jazz, not pop. It's lounge, and it's a collection that is sure to please an entire party, a date or just yourself when you're trying to relax. For information on this or other Continuum releases, call 1-800-709­9991. 
-by Rob Adams, Music Editor 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, April 20, 1995 
• NHl ROUND·UP

.. 
Winless streak continues for Blackhawks 
Associated Press 
The Chicago Blackhawks snapped their eight-game los­ing streak but had their winless string extended to 11 games by the St. Louis Blues, who got two goals from Dave Roberts for a 2-2 tie Wednesday night. 
·Sergei Krivokrasov and Gary Suter scored for Chicago, which last got a point in a March 31 tie with Toronto. Starting with a March 29 loss to St. Louis, the Blackhawks are 0-9-2 -their longest winless stretch in 18 years. 
During their 11-game skid, they have only 15 goals and have scored more than two in a game just once. 
They managed only three shots in the third period and overtime Wednesday. 
Before the March 29 game, Chicago had a four-point lead over the Blues in the Central Division. Now, St. Louis is 10 points ahead. The Blues have used a 9-2-2 record since March 26 to gain the Western Conference's second-best record (24-12-4). 
On consecutive nights, Roberts emerged an unlikely hero. Recalled from the minors April 4 and without a goal in his first nine career NHL games, Roberts got the winner Tuesday against Vancouver be­fore scoring twice against Chicago. 

His first goal Wednesday came on a rebound, as he pa­tiently moved to an open area in the slot before flicking the puck past goalie Ed Belfour to make it 1-1 early in the second period. 
After Suter scored to put Chicago back ahead, Roberts again tied it. At 13:08 of the second and with St. Louis on a two-man power play, AI Macinnis faked a shot from the right point and instead fed Roberts at the side of the net. Roberts lost control of the puck lllOmentarily before lifting it over Belfour's glove. 
After that, St. Louis' Brett Hull had the best scoring chance but lost the puck on a breakaway with 8 1/2 miutes left in regulation. 
As if scoring goals isn't tough enough for the Blackhawks, they had a goal nullified 2:10 into the game when referee Paul Stewart ruled that Murray Craven intentionally kicked the puck into the net. Chcago got one that counted 1:54 later when Krivokrasov scored on a power play. 
Suter scored at the end of a give-and-go with Krivokrasov at 11:06 of the second period for his 600th career point. 
Blues coach Mike Keenan used both Jon Casey and Geoff Sarjeant in goal. He has changed goalies in 11 of St. Louis' 40 games. Regular goal­tender Curtis Joseph has missed two straight games with a hamstring pull. 
Maple Leafs 3, Mighty Ducks 2 
Mike Gartner, Todd Gill and Mats Sundin each scored a goal as the Toronto Maple Leafs beat the Anaheim Mighty Ducks 3-2 Wednesday night. 
The Leafs have won four of their last five games, improving their chances of holding onto fourth place in the Western Conference. 
Mike Sillinger and Peter Douris scored for Anaheim. Gartner's goal at 3:26 of the third period put the Leafs up 3­
1. Gill carried the puck deep into Anaheim's zone on a 3-on­2 rush and spotted Gartner alone in front of goaltender Guy Hebert. Gartner had plenty of time and picked a top corner of the net with a quick wrist shot. 
Douris made it 3-2 at 5:17 of the third period. Felix Potvin went down on a long shot by Oleg Tverdovsky, the puck de­flected off a leg and Potvin lost sight of it as it rolled in the crease. Douris spotted it and poked it across the goal line. 
The Leafs outshot the Ducks 14-5 in the first 15 minutes, in­cluding 59 seconds when they had a two-man advantage, but neither team could score in the first period. 
Toronto scored twice during a 32-second span in the second period. 
Gill took a drop pass from Benoit Hogue in the middle of Anaheim's zone on a 3-on-2 rush and blasted a slap shot that sent Hebert sprawling backwards into the net. 
Sundin got his 22nd goal of the season at 5:23, but Sillinger made it 2-1 on a power play at 
13:51 of the second period. 
Red Wings, Jets 5-5 tie 
Ray Sheppard's job with the Detroit Red Wings is simple. 
He doesn't have to worry about playing defense, and he doesn't have to be great play­maker. He just has to score goals. 
Sheppard scored twice Wednesday night, including a goal with 2:55 left that gave the Red Wings a 5-5 tie with the Winnipeg Jets. 
"His hands belong in the Smithsonian," said Paul Coffey, who also scored twice for Detroit. "He gets the puck, and he has such a soft shot. He doesn't try to bang it in, he just puts it into the net." 
Sheppard knocked his own rebound past former teammate Tim Cheveldae, completing Detroit's comeback from a 4-1 deficit. 
"Right now, a tie is almost a loss to us, but at least we got a point," Sheppard said. "We played bad hockey for the first period, but we fought back and got something out of it." 
The Red Wings barely avoid­ed losing two straight games for the first time this season, while the Jets dropped to 0-9-2 in their last 11 road games. 
Still, the tie left Winnipeg only one point behind San Jose in the battle for the final Western Conference playoff spot. 
"It's disappointing to lose this game after we got the big lead, but at least we got the point," Jets coach Terry Simpson said. "We know we need to get something every night from here on in." 
Winnipeg led 4-1 after the first period, the first time this season Detroit allowed four goals ina period. 
Dave Manson scored the Jets' first goal, sending a slapshot past Mike Vernon at 3:29. Teemu Selanne made it 2-0 at 6:12, tapping in Igor Korolev's pass after the Detroit penalty­killers got caught up ice. 
Keith Primeau scored for Detroit at at 12:18, but ex-Wing Dallas Drake restored the two­goal lead at 15:13 when he tipped Stephane Quintal's shot between Vernon's legs. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre ./ Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds 

Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
AUDITIONS-auditions for the NO Folk Choir are now being held. Open to all current freshman, men and women. SIGN UP NOW call 631-5242 
HEADSTONE CIRCUS April29 If anyone found a pair of glasses in LaFun (although! it could have been anywhere on campus) last week (4/5 or 4/6) in ablack flip· open case (by the TV somewhere) I desperately need them back. They are tawny, oval-shaped frames by prodesign. Finals are coming up and I can't read without them!!! (219) 272·1778 

PLEASE RETURN MY JEAN AA CRUISE SHIPS HIRING! EARN BIG$$$+ FREE WORLD TRAVEL (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII, ETC.) SUMMER/PERMANENT, NO EXPER. NEC. GUIDE. (919)929­4398 ext. C1082 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS 
PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS 
NEAR LAKE PLACID 1-800·786-8373 HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAMPUS 232-2595 

ROOMMATE NEEDED Sum 95 share Camp View 235/mo all incl. Non/outdoor smoker please. Kathleen 4-1359 
I'm looking to sublet for the summer at a house or an apartment near campus. Please call Tommaso ASAP at 4-1112. 
NEED 4 GRAD TICKETS (help my grandparents see me graduate) call4·1207 Eugene 
4 TIX PAGE/PLANT CHICAGO Rosemont Horizon 5th ROW CENTER Call w/ best offer John x1478 
I Need extra GRADUATION TIX 
SHENANIGANS Annual Spring Concert 
8:00 p.m. Tues.. April 25th Washington Hall 

FREE ADMISSION tickets avail. at Lafort. Info. Desk 
TK-421, why aren't you at your post? TK-421, do you copy? 

Double Trouble-WE ARE DONE! 3 Wks. for u.h.u. 
- HA: Humor Artists Wacky Hour of Sketch Comedy Sat. April 22, 8pm Hesburgh Library Auditorium Proceeds benefit Center for the Homeless. Suggested don. $1 FJ:IEE FOOD AND DRINKS! Come to the ISO Picnic this Friday 21. The Picnic will take place in stepan field from 5:00 to 7:00 PM (Next to Stepan Center). Everyone is welcome. $$ FOR TEXTBOOKS$$ Are you going to read those things again? I think not. 2323·2342 Pandora's Bks NO Ave & Howard ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAK­FAST, 35 MIN TO N.D. SPECIAL "OBSERVER" RATE $50/$60, FULL BREAKFAST. THE HOME­SPUN COUNTRY INN, NAPPA· NEE, 219·773-2034. DISCLOSURE FRI/SAT 8/1030 Cushing $2 by SUB Breakfast Club  JACKET!! Cropped American Eagle jacket. Last seen on Tues. 4/11 at Club 23. I only need Student 10, Detex and jacket, you can have the rest. Call Renee x1435 No questions asked ..... LOST: My sapphire pendant! It's an oval shaped sapphire, surround· ed by diamonds, set in gold. I lost it when my necklace broke, walking from Fischer-O'hara-Grace to the Law School Wednesday afternoon, April 6. PLEASE, PLEASE, PLEASE call me at 4-3953 if you've found it -it has special meaning to me. REWARD offered. Found: a watch with a very identifi­able wristband and face. It had been turned in to Security; go there to claim it. Lost: Set of keys on a soccer key· chain. If you know where they are please call4·1456. LOST -SMALL BURGUNDY LEATHER CHANGE PURSE­REWARD -CALL 1·5707  CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING· Earn up to $2,000+/month working on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­panies. World travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.). Seasonal and full-time employment available. No experience neces­sary. For more information call1· 206·634·0468 ext. C55845 ND/SMC student needed to babysit in South Bend for 8 weeks this summer. Must have excellent refer­ences, love kids and like to have fun. Call 6-9 pm, 708·524-9386. JOB ON CAMPUS! RETREATS INTERNATIONAL LOOKING FOR RESPONSIBLE PERSON FOR SUMMER INSTITUTE JUNE 26­JULY 29. LICENSED DRIVER. DESCRIPTION ON REQUEST. CALL BABBS 631-4544 FOR RENT COLLEGE PARK CONDO: For lease, 2 bd., 2 ba. furnished unit, Alarm system. Avail. June 1st. Call: (818)441·1275  ATTENTION: Summer School Students! Sublet our College Park Condo June 1st· Aug. 1st 2BR, 2BA Call272-6713 SUBLET THIS SUMMER! College Park Condo· 2 females needed! 272-1538 Looking for roommates for Turtle Creek townhouse. $195 mo.+ util. Call277·9659. FOR SALE Need furniture for next year? 4 seniors @ Turtle have LOTS of NICE furniture! Call for details: 277·7597 Mac performa475:8 months old, MS office,Ciaris,Quicken,Modem, $850 Toyomu:271-7961 '80 TRIUMPH TR7 Convertible. brown w/ tan interior, great cond. Near NO. $4,500 OBO 277.2684.  If you can help please call Ed @ 634-4204. NEED GRADUATION TICKETS! Grandpa and Grandma have been waiting 22 yrs. for this. 273-6537.$ PERSONAL 000 The Copy Shop 000 LaFortune Student Center WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE, & WEEKENDS FOR YOUR CONVENIENCE!!! Phone 631-COPY ADOPTION -A LOVING CHOICE Pediatrician and pediatric nurse happily married for seven years are hoping to share our love with a child. We love the outdoors, have comfortable home and country lake­side cottage. Will provide secure, loving home with full time mom. Counseling and allowable expens· es. Call Kim or Mike at 1·800-469­0559 EUROPE $199 o/w CARIBBEAN/MEXICO 189 r/t If you can beat these prices start  @#$@#$@#$@#$@#$@#$@#$ The LAST CONFIDENTIAL SUP­PORT meeting for the 1995 spring semester will be held at 7:30 on Thursday night. Call the Q-line for more info 287·6665 This is a support group to discuss the issues of being GAY at Notre Dame and St. Mary's. It is also to talk about what happened over Easter Break and what to expect over the summer. So come if you are GAY, Lesbian, Bisexual, Questioning, Curious, and happy! Remeber their are people like you OUT there to help you. p.s. Thanks to all the people who have come to the support group to make a success this year...your words and support were greatly appreciated -loveya Tony @#$@#$@#$@#$@#$@#$@#$ Don't Forget Sophomores ... The CLASS SERVICE PROJECT at the NE Neighborhood is going strong but can always use new vol­unteers. Its a lot of fun-give it a try.  

Montgomery Theatre  your own damn airline!  We leave at 2:30pm and  
811030 $1  by SUB  WANTED  •••••••***NOTICE***•********** If you are interested in living at  OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered at $85,900. First floor location.  AIR-TECH LTD. 212/219-7000 info@aerotech.com  3:30pm from Main Circle every Wednesday and Friday, and return  
HANDCRAFTED GIFTS from  Turtle Creek next year, call Chris  Finished basement with full lavato­ at 4:30.  Call Brian x1058.  
around the world.  NATIONAL PARKS HIRING·  at 273·1399 as soon as possible.  ry. Two bedrooms and two baths on  
•  GLOBAL GIFTS at LaFortune SJudent Center, April 25-28  Seasonal & full-time employment available at National Parks, Forests  Rent NOW for Fall Semester·  ground level. Lease back to owner through May, 1995. Call  000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center  ADOPTION-A choice for you. We have lots of hugs and kisses waiting  
Room 1 08 9am-6pm. ILOST & FOUND I  & Wildlife Preserves. Benefits + bonuses! Call: 1·206-545-4804 ext. N55843  Completely remodeled home in great student neighborhood. Available to 5 students -5 private bedrooms, 2 full baths, washer and  (616)946-0700. 84 Pymouth. Runs great, Great gas mig. $1000 OBO-289-1746  vQuick turn around time!!! vMost orders completed within 24 hours vFree pick-up & delivery  and can offer your baby a life full of love, fun, & opportunity. Backyard swings, pets, cousins and much more. Legal and confidential. We're  
Employment opportunity with an  dryer, large rec toom. Your own  to & from departments  easy to talk to-Mary & Chuck 1-800­ 
LOST black leather Coach gloves  Architectural and Engineering firm  personal frat house. CALL NOW  Couches, beds, etc...for sale. All in  vCall 631-COPY  658-8718  
lined w/ white shearling lost on Mar  located in historic Lafayette, Indiana  277-0636  great condition. Call Rich 273-2474  
•  4 between Oak Hill and campus call Amy x4838  for ARCHITECTURAL GRADUATE with AutoCAD proficiency and 3  NEEDED: 1 bdrm apt to sublease  1 HARRY CONNICK JR. TIC.  SOPHOMORES»> Get involved in the  Hey mister dj won't ya hear my last prayer?  
months office experience. Resume  or roommate to share apt. this sum·  SARAH 4·2963.  CLASS OF '97 MASS  hey ho rock-n-roll deliver me from  
Found: faded blue Irish cap.  Looks  to H.L. Mohler & Associates, P.C.,  mer call 284-5065  to be held at 2pm on SUNDAY  nowhere  
pretty scummy· must be significant. Found at McClure's car wash on  839 Main Street, Lafayette, IN 47901  LIVE IN A GOOD AREA FUR·  TICKETS  April 23rd at the Grotto. We still need EUCHARISTIC MINISTERS,  Don't forget!  Irish Accent show  
Edison and Ironwood. Rudy 233­ NISHED HOMES NORTH OF NO  LECTORS, ALTAR SERVERS, and  tonight at 9:00 pm in the Lafortune  
4008  MBA student looking to rent a  IDEAL FOR 3-7 PEOPLE 2773097  Need a lot of extra graduation tick- even HOMILISTS. We also need  Ballroom.  Bring a friend.  Better  
guitar amp from 4/20 to 4/23.  ets. x3711  vocal and instrumental MUSICIANS  yet, bring two.  
Found: Ring on 4th floor Stanford  If you play guitar and have an  2 BDRM house $520/mo. + util.  very soon.  So please get involved  
during the weekend of April 1st.  amp, please help! Will pay $$$  624 Park (Historic District)  I NEED 2 tickets for Graduation  you look strong enough to pull the  
Call Scott at 2003 to claim.  for rental. Call jeff 4·2943  Grad. Students pre!. 232·6079  Please call PAUL x3580  <<<call Brian x1058 ASAP.  wings off a gandar  

Thursday, April 20, 1995 


The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
Student Government and 


The Alumni Association 

would like to congratulate the 199 4-95 recipient of 
The Frank 0 'Malley Undergraduate Teaching Award 



ran en er er 



Concurrent Professor in the Psychology Department and Special Faculty Member to the Centerfor Social Concerns 

,­

-~ 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, April 20, 1995 
.. • NBA Rm.INDMUv 
Hill and Phills lead Cavaliers over Miami 
~sociated P~ess high 17 points in 18 minutes. bounds, while Kenny Anderson 19 on the road. left following a basket by 
Tyrone Hill had 21 points and 16 rebounds and Bobby Phills registered his first career triple-double Wednesday night, leading the Cleveland Cavaliers to a 90-79 victory over the Miami Heat. 
Phills scored 11 points, tied a career-high with 11 rebounds and had a career-high 10 as­sists. It was only the 11th triple-double in the Cavaliers' 26 seasons in the NBA. Phills also had a career-high five steals. 
Cleveland had lost three straight games to Miami, in­cluding an 85-84 setback in Miami last Thursday. 

Glen Rice led Miami with 19 -points, while Kevin Willis had 10 points and 13 rebounds and Kevin Gamble 15 points. Hill was dominant inside as the Cavaliers took control in the fgurth quarter. The forward scored twice on putbacks, dunked off an inbounds pass, took another inbounds pass and converted a 6-foot turnaround jumper and went 2-for-2 from the foul line -all in a 5:14 span as Cleveland extended its lead to 87-72. The Heat had rallied from a 13-point deficit to take a 46-45 lead in the third quarter. A 20­foot jumper by Phills put Cleveland ahead to stay at 52­50. John Battle scored 10 points in the second quarter to help Cleveland to a 41-38 halftime lead. The Cavaliers led 31-18 before Gamble's eight points sparked an 18-6 Miami run. · Miami's Billy Owens strained a left quadricep muscle in the first quarter. He returned in.the third quarter and finished with 11 points. ~ ·Battle finished with a season­
• Ctu.lEGE BASKETBAll 
IU cancels Hermon's scholarship 
Associated Press 

-· 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. Indiana University will not 
renew guard Michael Hermon's scholarship, athletic director Clarence Doninger said Wednesday. 
"I can't enumerate all of the reasons, but it was basically class attendance, academic and communication reasons," Doninger said. 
IU coach Bob Knight is in Australia and was unavailable for comment. Hermon also could not immediately be reached for comment. 
IU forward Andrae Patterson said Wednesday that Hermon was still in Bloomington. 
Doninger said the scholar­ship revocation is reversible. He also said Hermon can appeal, "and that is done through the university's finan­cial aid department. That would be out of the athletic department's hands." 
The 6-3 guard was a late addition to the Hoosier roster last summer. 
He started 17 games last season, averaging 6 points a game. 

THUR. SHOW STARTS AT 9jJmFRl/SAT STARTS AT lOjJm Schedule Suhject to Change Call 235-3409 
Hermon left the team briefly

--
after a loss to Notre Dame on Nov. 29, but returned two games later. He started 14 of 
E·MAIL FORUM 
18 Big Ten games. 

He saw more playing time with Mark Price missing his third consecutive game with a left heel injury and Terrell Brandon out for the season after knee surgery two weeks ago. 
Hawks 1 04, Nets 99 
Mookie Blaylock had 24 points and hit two key baskets down the stretch as the Atlanta Hawks handed the New Jersey Nets their fifth straight loss Wednesday night, 104-99. 
Blaylock gave the Hawks, who have won four of their last five, the lead for good at 93-91 when he hit a jumper with 5:37 to play. Greg Anderson then hit a layup, and Grant Long added a free throw for a 96-91 lead. 
The Nets, who have lost 15 of the last 17, refused to fold and fought back to 97-96 on a bas­ket and free throw by Chris Childs with 2:31 to play. 
But Blaylock, who also had 10 assists, then scored on a give­and-go with Long and, after a free throw y the Nets' Rick Mahorn, added a free throw to make it 100-98. 
After Kenny Anderson was whistled for an offensive foul, Blaylock found Greg Anderson with a pass under the basket. Anderson's layup and free throw made it 103-98 with 1:20 to play, and the Hawks hung on from there to run their record to 19-13 since the All-Star break. 
Smith and Greg Anderson each scored 17, and Long added 15 points and 11 re­bounds for Atlanta, which still hopes to catch Cleveland for the sixth spot in the Eastern Conference. The Cavaliers de­feated Miami 90-79 Wedn~sday night. 
Armon Gilliam led the Nets 
with 23 points and 13 re-
added 14. 

Bullets 123,_Magic 117, OT 
Chris Webber posted his third triple-double of the season Wednesday night as the Washington Bullets took advan­tage of Shaquille O'Neal's ab­sence to beat Orlando 123-117 in overtime, the Magic's sixth straight road loss. 
Webber had 17 points, 16 re­bounds and 10 assists as the Bullets won for the second time' in three games after dropping 13 straight. Doug Overton scored a career-high 30 points for Wa:>hington. 
Juwan Howard, who added 27 points, gave the Bullets the lead for good at 116-115 on a free throw with 1:39 left in overtime. 
Mitchell Butler then buried a 3-pointer from the right corner for a four-point cushion with 
1:11 to go. 

Anfernee Hardaway scored 12 of his game-high 35 points in the fourth quarter as the Magic rallied from a 12-point deficit early in the period to tie the game 111-111 on Donald Royal's layup with 50.3 seconds remaining in regulation. 
O'Neal, bothered by tendinitis in his left knee, missed his third game of the season. 
Orlando, which clinched the Atlantic Division title and the top record in the Eastern Conference by beating the Bullets on Monday, is 2-1 with­out him. 
Six of the eight Washington players who saw action scored in double figure. Don MacLean added 17 points and Gheorghe Muresan had 10 points and eight rebounds. 
Dennis Scott scored 19 points and Nick Anderson 17 for the Magic, which has dropped 15 of 
MADISON OYS.TER BAR 
402 East Madison Street South Bend, IN (219) 288-3776 APPEARING LIVE IN APRIL 
20-Thursday ~ 21-Friday 
Fat Daddy PiletDpPer1<ils Rhythm Sectio R & B Blues 
22-Saturday 
Cooler Ki1gs 
Blues 

23-sunday 
St.rd:iyJazz t>j 
l:mChamberlaln·6p.m Little Charlie -Bp.m. 
Anderson knocked down three 3-pointers in the third period, and his trey with 7:06 remaining tied the game 78-78. 
But Washington went on a 12-4 run and Overton, who scored 13 points in the period, hit a 3-pointer with two sec­onds left in the quarter for a 98-91 Bullets lead. 
Washington hit 10 of its first 13 shots from the field and used a 9-0 run early in the game to race to a 35-25 lead. 
The Bullets went up by 13 with 3:14 left in the second quarter on Larry Stewart's slam dunk and held a 68-61 halftime edge. 
Scott had 10 first-half points off the bench for Orlando, which made only 12 field goals in each of the first two periods. 
h1diana 103, Philadelphia 91 
The Indiana Pacers moved within one victory of their first NBA divisional title by defeating the Philadelphia 76ers 103-91 Wednesday night as Rik Smits had 25 points and 12 rebounds. 
Derrick McKey added 20 points and 11 rebounds, giving the Pacers a sweep of the sea­son-series with Philadelphia for the first time ever. 
The Pacers scored 11 straight points to pull away as the 76ers went more than four minutes without scoring in the fourth period. 
Indiana, which can clinch the Central Division title with one more win or one more loss by charlotte, led 83-81 with 8:08 Philadelphia's Scott Williams. 
The victory also kept alive Indiana's slim hopes of catching the New York Knicks for home court advantage through the second round of the playoffs. 
However, Indiana would have to win its remaining two games and the Knicks lose their remaining three for the Pacers that to happen. 
McKey's free throw with 7:33 left started Indiana's decisive spurt, which included four points each by Smits and Haywoode Workman. · 
The 76ers missed five straight shots from the field and two free throws during Indiana's spurt and didn't score until Greg Graham hit two free throws with 3:28 remaining to make the score 94-83. 
Dana Barros scored 22 to top a Philadelphia offense that had all five starters finish in double figures. Shawn Bradley had 18 for Philadelphia. 
Antonio Davis came off the bench to score 17 for Indiana in 25 minutes, connecting on all seven of his shots from the field. 
The 76ers led 51-47 at half­time despite being outre­bounded 31-18. Philadelphia, shooting 47 percent from the field for the season, made 55 percent of its shots in the first two periods. 
Barros scored 17 of his points in the first half. He hit seven of 10 attempts, including a 3­pointer that extended his record streak of consecutive games with at least one trey to 56. 
HAPPY22ND BIRTHDAY 
D&[i:£1[3li [? ~~[i:£1 [i:£1 
(THE GALAXY GIRL) 
LOVEXXXX, 
JACK, DAD,&MOM 

Student Government wants your opinion ! Please give us a hand by telling how you feel about the following topics: 
1.) Our football stadium is expanding! How do you feel about the student section being moved? 

w 
[01

2.) Do you have any ideas concerning revisions to 
Lill

DuLac? If so, tell us about them! 
~[I

STUDENT GOVERNMENT And of course, any other comments or questions about absolutely any topic are always welcome!!! Please address comments to: studegov.l@nd.edu or 1 x 6283 

Thursday, April 20, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• UMPIRE STRIKE • PROfESSIONAL BASEBAll 
Progress continues slowly Rockies get Baylor 
By RONALD BLUM 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Baseball umpires and owners exchanged new offers Wednesday, but it wasn't clear if the proposals meant major progress that could lead to a settlement before opening day. 
"They made an offer this morning; it was an oiTer that I'd have to characterize as an oiTer that was intended to stimulate the negotiations," umpires' union head Hichie Phillips said from Philadelphia. 
"I made a counterproposal to him this evening which was in­tended to Jet him and the leagues know that we're very serious about trying to reach a resolution of this thing before the season starts." 
The sides agreed not to dis­close their offers publicly on Wednesday, but a management source, speaking on the condi­tion he not be identified, said there had been less progress than Phillips indicated. 
The umpires' previous pro­posal was for a 41 percent raise. Owners had been offer­ing a 10 percent increase for the four-year contract. 
"At this stage, I'd rather not characterize anything," man­agement negotiator Robert Kheel said. 
"Any movement is progress, so I don't want to say it's not progress. But I'd rather let him comment." 
Under the expired four-year agreement, reached a few hours before opening day in 1991, rookie umpires made $60,000 while 25-year veterans made $175,000. In addition, most umpires received up to $20,000 each from the post­season bonus pool. 
Umpires have been locked out since Jan. 1. 
"The next step is that I'll hear from him tomorrow after he hears from the league presi­dents and costs out our coun­terproposal," Phillips said of Kheel, the lawyer for the Na­tional League. 
Earlier in the day, Kheel de­nied that the sides were dis­cussing a no-strike, no-lockout agreement that would allow the regular umpires to return for opening day next Tuesday. 
"If he wants to make an offer to agree to a no-strike clause through 1995, obviously we would consier it, but no offer has been made," Kheel said. "We made such an offer last December and it was rejected." 

back through 1996 
Associated Press 
TUCSON, Ariz. 
The Colorado Rockies on Wednesday extended the con­tract of manager Don Baylor through the 1996 season. 
Baylor, 45, signed a two-year deal with the expansion Rockies before their inaugural 1993 season. Colorado had an option for this year. 
"Don has shown excellent managing skills under often­times trying circumstances, working with a first and second year club," general manager Bob Gebhard said. 
"Remember, he came in here as an unproven manager. We didn't know a lot about him and he didn't know a lot about 
us." 

The top 3 reasons to start your Kaplan 
MCAT 
PREP 
A better BANG for your competition! 
Get a head start on the 

buck-more time to study Start studying now! 
with Kaplan! 
Summer Glasses start June 26, 1995 
KAPLAN 
The answer to the test question 
1-800-KAP-TEST 
Price Increases May 1, 1995 

.~PQ'i''4i6 p;,m; at the parking•.·.lgt'$outl}9ftlle. Joyce. Center. ··Equipmenfwill be· provided. .. Ad,ya ._.ster ~t RecSports;1.:61 ecost is $5 and all 

~THE1995 
0MPUS 
MINISTRY 

Full Sit Down Dinner Banquet 
St. Patrick's Parish Center Downtown South Bend 
$10/perso1l 
Tickets 011 sale at the Campus Ministry Office 
in the Hesburglz Library 
Doors open at 6:00p.m. 

Dimzer promptly at 6:30p.m. 


Through two seasons, Baylor has compiled a 120-159 record.The Rockies were with­in a half-game of the division lead last July 28. The Rockies were the fastest expansion team to win 100 games. 
''I'm thrilled with the oppor­tunity to continue to manage this club. It's something I want­ed to do," Baylor said. "Getting my contract taken care of had been put on the back burner. Now that it's done, it is time to play baseball." 
Gebhard and Baylor met and finalized the deal Tuesday night. They announced its com­pletion Wednesday on the day they broke camp and returned to Denver to prepare for Thursday's exhibition game against the New York Yankees. 
at 7:00p.m. at the boathouse. It willl primarily discuss rec teams for weekend meet. Sweatshirts are now on sale. 
SPECIAL OLYMPICS • Volunteers are needed to help with swimming on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 4:30-5:30 
p.m. at Rolfs Aquatic Center. For more information call coach Dennis Stark at 1·5983. 
IRISH OUTDOORS is plan· ning a camping trip to Indiana Dunes on April 21-23. Call Nit( at 4·1191 with questions. 
BOOKSTORE BASKET­BALL needs referees for the Round of 64 and following. Contact comissioner Mike 
· Hanley at 273-6077 as soon as possible if interested . 
SPORTS TALK • Bookstore teams talk trash on WVFI 640AM on Sunday, April 23rd at 7;30p.m. 
Baseball 
continued from page 24 

many days, a blast to left-cen­ 
ter which brought DeSensi home.  - 
DeSensi would add another  
RBI an inning later, lifting a  
sacrifice fly that scored George  
Restovich.  
DeSensi's hitting streak coin­ 
cides with his move to the lead­ 
ofT spot in the line-up 19 games  
ago.  He attributes his success  
to the move.  -­ 
"It really makes a difference  
as  far  as  pitch selection,"  
DeSensi says.  "When you're  
batting lead-off you see a  lot  
more fast balls than you would  
later in the line-up.  It makes it  
easier on a hitter because you  
don't have  to  look for  one  
pitch."  
Brooks  was  2-2 with  two  .- 
runs scored.  Amrhein finished  
2-4 with two RBI and Ryan  
Topham was 2-5.  
Both  Purdue  runs  were  
scored  by  first  baseman  
Shannon Stigleman.  Stigleman  
launched a solo homer in the  
top of the seventh to break up  ..  
the shutout and bring his hit­ 
ting streak to 11 games.  
In  the  top  of the  ninth,  
Stigleman drove Schmalz out of  
the game with a double. Notre Dame continues its 13­ - 

game home-stand today when Valparaiso visits. Freshman Christian Parker will start. 


page 18 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, April 20, 1995 
•NFL • COUEGES AND THE Comrr SYSTEM 
Bengals threaten to move Federal ruling 
r-­
he will move his team promise to review the issue fur­team for Baltimore, flew to Brown University on "At Brown, far more male 
Meanwhile, a majority of ther, I don't know how long we Cincinnati to meet with Brown Wednesday appealed a federal athletes are being supported at area residents who responded can ride with that." within the last two weeks. judge's ruling that the school the university-funded varsity to a poll released Wednesday Brown repeatedly has said Moag would not discuss the unfairly favored male athletes level than are female athletes, said the city should build the the Bengals cannot remain talks with Brown. because some men's sports and thus, women receive less stadium. profitable in 20-year-old, But he said that any team teams were larger than wom­benefit from their intercolle­
Brown said he met once with 60,000-seat Riverfront moving to Baltimore would en's teams. giate varsity program as a Maryland officials about a pos­Stadium, which the team have to make the commitment University president Vartan whole than do men," Pettine sible move to Baltimore, and shares with the Cincinnati by the fall, otherwise money Gregorian said the Providence, wrote. that more meetings are Reds. But this is the first time now reserved for a stadium R.I., university supports the He gave Brown 120 days to planned. Brown has given a deadline for might be channeled toward goal of abolishing sex discrimi­come up with a plan to comply. 
"It's clear we have to get a resolution to the stadium public education. nation, but that the judge set "Judge Pettine has made something resolved this year," debate. "My clock has very little time requirements that are "tanta­Title IX a quota law," athletic Brown said in an interview Neither Brown nor mayor in it," Moag said. mount to quotas." director David Roach said. 
Gregorian also said that "He believes, incorrectly,
... 
Rhode Island U.S. District that Brown can simply shave a 
• PROFESSIONAl BASEBAll Judge Raymond Pettine's rul­little money from men's teams ing late last month intruded on to create new opportunities for the autonomy of colleges and women. In fact, the ruling will universities. force Brown to eliminate
Gonzalez leads Houston 
"Colleges and universities participation opportuities for are facing very hard choices many male athletes." 
Associated Press Derek Bell doubled home two is hitting .476 (10-for-21). 
today. They cannot allow their "The ruling will be a death runs before Gonzalez hit a two­The Dodgers bullpen took an­decision-making powers to be blow to the last five or ten men
Luis Gonzalez and Craig run homer, his second of the other beating as Murphy, a 
needlessly compromised," on many squads, who will lose
Biggio hit home runs spring. non-roster player, allowed 
Gregorian said in a statement. the educational benefits thatWednesday as the Houston Biggio also hit his second three runs in the eighth. 
The university, in its appeal, intercollegiate athletics canAstros beat the Los Angeles homer, connecting off reliever "We've got some important is asking the 1st U.S. Circuit bring to a student's year at
Dodgers 8-4 
Rob Murphy in the eighth. decisions to make," Dodgers 
Court of Appeals either to Brown."
despite being Astros starter Darryl Kile manager Tom Lasorda said throw out Pettine's ruling or At least 25 lawsuits have
outhit 12-6. earned the win despite allow­when asked about which of his order a new trial. been filed by female athletes at
Dodgers ing three runs on six hits, left-handed relievers has the In his ruling, Pettine found various schools charging the 
starter Pedro including Billy Ashley's first inside track on making the Brown failed to meet stipula­schools fail to meet stipulations Astacio homer of the spring, and three team-AI Osuna, Ed Vosberg tions in Title IX, the 1972 fed­in Title IX.
stretched his walks in four innings. or Murphy. 
eral law prohibitng gender dis­The Brown case was filed in
spring hitless Mike Piazza had three singles "Murphy and Vosberg are crimination at schools that re­1992.
inning string for the Dodgers to raise his new to us; Osuna we have a 
ceive federal funds. Pettine noted that, evento seven with Luis Gonzalez spring average to .429 (9-for-pretty good idea what he can Title IX requires a school to though Brown otTers 16 sports
three perfect 21). do," Lasorda said. 
have a "substantially propor­each for men and women, dur­innings, but then was battered Delino DeShields and Eric "We don't have a lot of time. 
tionate" ratio of female to male ing the 1993-94 academic year for five runs in the fourth and Karros each singled and dou­We hope we make the right athletes; expand its athletics to there were 555 male athletes
took the loss. bled for Los Angeles. DeShields decisions." 
meet women's interests and and 342 female athletes. 

It's One Of The Most Useful Credit Cards On The 
Planet. Unless You've Stolen It. Your MasterCard® is stolen. You panic, get 
-
angry, panic some more. Then you call and cancel it. Now the thief is in possession 
about seven cents worth of stolen plastic. (Maybe he can use it as a coaster when he 
entertains at the hideout.) So relax. You only have to pay for stuff you bought, 
and you can get a new card the next day~ It'll be accepted at millions of places, 
.. must sell wallets. MasterCard. It's more than a credit card. It's smart money.™ • 
*Cr:rtain amditiom apply 01995 Mastr:rCard lnternationallncorpMated 


Associated Press 
CINCINNATI 
Cincinnati Bengals general 

manager Mike Brown has given 
the city until the end of the 
year to guarantee construction 
of a football stadium, or he said published Wednesday in The Cincinnati Enquirer. 
"It all is drawing to a head. And one way or the other, we have to have some alternatives and decide," Brown said. 
"If one alternative is a bird­in-the-hand and the other is a Roxanne Qualls could be reached for comment Wednesday. Both were said to be in meetings. 
The Enquirer said John Moag Jr., chairman of the Maryland Stadium Authority, the group charged with finding an NFL 
appealed by Brown 
By CAROLYN THOMPSON abilities; and maintain a pro­Associared Press gram that "fully and effective­ly" meets the interest and 
BOSTON abilities of female students. 


---------~ 
. 

Thursday, April 20, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
• PROFESSIONAL BASEBALL 
Everett's two run homer helps Mets win 
Associated Press single that gave the Mets a 4-1 Wednesday. White Sox 5, Pirates 4 "I thought I threw well lead. The game was called after enough except for that last in­
Carl Everett hit a two-run Bret Saberhagen gained the both teams ran out of pitchers. Jason Bere pitched four hit­ning," said Wagner, who homer during a four-run fifth victory in his first decision, al­Florida managed only two less innings and Robin Ventura struck out six. inning and added a run-scor­lowing one runs and five hits hits off four relievers after hit a three-run homer "I walked Frank Thomas on ing single in the sixth as the in four innings. starter Tom Gordon was Wednesday as the Chicago four pitches and I kind of let New York Mets beat the New The Mets added three runs injured. White Sox beat the Pittsburgh that get to me. I should have York Yankees 7-3 Wednesday. in the sixth against Bob Pirates 5-4. just backed off for a second 
Everett, acquired by the Mets Wickman on run-scoring sin­Gordon was hit just above Bere, making his second and regrouped." from the Florida Marlins last gles by Everett and Otero and the left ankle by a one-hopper spring outing, struck out five Jay Bell pulled Pittsburgh to November for Quilvio Veras, an HBI double by Joe Orsulak. off the bat of Bob Natal. He and walked one. 3-2 in the fifth with a two-run keyed the fifth with a drive off Danny Tartabull was 3-for-4 sustained a bruise, but isn't "He's throwing the ball bet­homer in the fifth off Scott Mark Hutton that landed just with three doubles for the expected to miss a start. ter than he was last year at Ruffcorn. lert of the 401-foot mark in Yankees. Darrell Whitmore had three this time. His control has been Tim Raines doubled in a run dead center. hits and drove in a run for the better and so has his breaking in the bottom half off off 
It was the second homer this Hoyals 3, Marlins 3, tie Marlins. ball," White Sox manager Ramon Morel. Chicago scored spring for Everett, who began Andre Dawson singled and Gene Lamont said of Bere, who its final run in the sixth on his pro career as the Yankees' Tom Goodwin, bidding to re­scored and drove in a run with has a 24-7 record in just under Norberto Martin's first homer first-round draft choice in place the traded Brian McRae a sacrifice fly. Eddie Zosky's two seasons with the White of the spring. 1990. as Kansas City's starting cen­sacrifice fly drove in the third Sox. Pittsburgh added a runs in 
Edgardo Alfonzo had home­ter fielder, had two hits, stole a Marlins run. Ventura gave Chicago a 3-0 the sixth on Jeff King's doubh~ red opening the fifth. base and scored twice as the Royals reliever Rusty lead in the fourth off Paul off Ruffcorn and another in the Jeff Kent capped the inning Royals and the Florida Marlins Meacham retired all six bat­Wagner with his second homer seventh on Carlos Garcia's RBI 
with a two-out, run-scoring played a 10-inning, 3-3 tie ters he faced, striking out four. in three games. grounder. ... 
Orioles looking to Van Slyke for assistance 
By RONALD BLUM Homestead, Fla. The Orioles Infielder Jody Reed found a $750,000. let him decide how far he can Associated Press want him to prove his back is job with the San Diego Padres, McRae, traded earlier this go," Mazzone said. healthy before they commit to a agreeing to a $200,000, one­month from the Kansas City Maddux still could be the 
Less than a week before the contract. year contract that gives him the Royals to the Cubs, hit .273 in opening day starter next start of the season, Andy Van "I just didn't think I'd have to chance to earn another 114 games last season with Wednesday against San Slyke found himself trying to go through a litmus test at this $300,000 on performance four homers, 40 RBis and a ca­Francisco in Atlanta. win a job with the Baltimore point in my career," he said. bonuses. reer-high 28 stolen bases. At Winter Haven, Fla., catch­Orioles. Another outfielder, Felix Jose, In other news, plans were er Sandy Alomar, still bothered 
."It's unchartered water," the found a job, going back to Reed, 32, had a $350,000 scrapped for a game this by a sore left knee, sat out the outfielder said after going 1-Kansas City with a minor base salary last year with the Saturday between the Cleveland Indians' game for-2 in a 6-3 victory over the league contract. Milwaukee Brewers after turn­Homstead free agents and the against the Detroit Tigers. Minnesota Twins. "Christopher He would get a $300,000 con­ing down a $7.8 million, three­Chicago White Sox. Alomar had arthroscopic Columbus might have been a tract if he makes the team, year contract with Los Angeles At West Palm Beach, Fla., surgery on the knee in little melancholy, too." down from $1.95 million last in the summer of 1993. Atlanta Braves pitcher Greg November after injuring it 
year. "We got a good, intelligent, Maddux worked out for about while sliding into second base 
Van Slyke. who had back Jose, 29, hit .303 last season experienced player," Padres 15 minutes and "threw good," during a game in Puerto Rico. problems last season, has had with 11 home runs and 55 manager Bruce Bochy said. according to pitching coach Leo He returned to winter ball as a trouble finding a job after the RBis. "Jody knows how to play the Mazzone. DH but didn't catch again until strike. He hit .246 for "Bringing Jose back is going game, and he had a good year It was Maddux's second ap­spring training. Pittsburgh last season, appear­to make us a better club in last year." pearance since coming down ing in 83 games after breaking 1995," general manager Herk Among players eligible for with chicken pox last Friday. ''It's bothering him a little bit. his right collarbone crashing Robinson said. "He has an ex­salary arbitration, outfielder He will be cleared to resume I don't think it's anything to into the wall at Busch Stadium. perienced bat and can give our Brian McRae and the Chicago normal workouts Thursday, worry about," manager Mike 
Before Wednesday, he had offense some more produc­Cubs agreed to a $2.65 million, according to trainer Dave Hargrove said. been at the free agent camp in tion." one-year contract, a raise of Pursley, and is scheduled to "To say it hasn't been giving 
FLI ~II»E I»OE~ IU~G-0% 
Tickets: $15 for Flip Side tnetnbers, $18 for everyone else, not including dinner. Tickets available at the LaFortune Info. Desk! 
These prices are a nearly JO!Ji1 discount from what TOTO'S and. 2nd City would 
usually cost. WHAT A DEAL! Buses leave from the library circle at 4pm on Friday, April 21! We will be returning at approximately 2:30AM! 
pitch in an intrasquad game him any trouble, I'd be lying to Friday. you. But we think it's going to "We'll see how strong he is, be OK." 

We'll take 20% off when you leave campus with a Hertz Penske truck rentall We've got everything you ne·ed to make moving easy -a modern, clean fleet ... free unlimited mileage on one way moves ... convenient coast-to-coast locations ... a free moving guide ... and all the accessories to get the job done. For reservations, call the location below, or check the Yellow Pages for the Hertz Penske location nearest you. 
South Bend (North): 277-0144 South Bend (South): 291-1414 
1 --------------------­
Leaving campus? 
1 Rent a truck from Hertz Penske and get a 20% 1 discount on your one way truck rental. 
I 
f I 
'PENSKE 
I Her/;z 


DISCOUNT DISCOUNT 
I 
Truck Rsnt11/
I 
Affordable, new, clean Crvc:Jr. at convenient rental location.
I 
• 10' -24' trucks available • Automatic transmission and 
I 
• Free unlimited mileage air condi1ioning I on one way rentals • 24-hour emergency road service 
-
I Enec~~ve Apf111, taaa Good lhru July :11,18811
I A "one way rentat• means your Hertz Panake truck ie rented In one city and retumed to another.
L _____.:'!:..Pen.!:·:.:.--.=·::,.Pe::,•.::~·::'!... _____.J 

... 
Bookstore Basketball Results 
-Kerbdog def. The Wonder Stuff 21-6 -The Chocolate Thunder def. Inside Penetration 21-16 -Four Irishmen and a Fifth def. Three Dogs ... 21-12 -Gallo's Finest def. Two Guys Who ... 21-16 -Team John Black def. Southern Baptist Disaster ... 26-24 -Uncommonly Smooth def. II New Directions ... 21-4 -A Very Brady X-mas def. Aggravated Assault 21-12 -Anna Lee Antiquities def. Commander Wedge ...21-3 -Azirdines def. We'll Smoke You... 21-19 -Herb Dowe Fan Club def. We're so Bad ... 21-7 -Holy Cross All-Stars def. 5 Flexible ... 21-8 -CASH def. It's Not How You Rank...21-2 -SWOOSH def.We're Not Getting Balder ... 21-4 -4 Guys & the Girl...def. Fast & Easy Spirit...21-11 -Cork def. 52 Ain't No Love ...21-17 -Bump n' Uglies def. Soup & the Neurotic ... 21-9 
.-The Good, the Bad ... de f. Webbies Women 21-13 -Peg's Pookies def. Peanuts 21-9 -Dickey Frappe's Atomic ... def. Too Many Staas 21-7 -The Geese def. Five Tools to Beat 21-18 -Nocturnal Rhythm def.Rigid Body Dynamics 21-10 -Trash Talkers def. Shootin' for Sugar 21-12 -Remember 2 Things de f. U ghh ... & the Stuff 21-8 -Boombeladdy def. We'll Lose Anyway ... 21-6 -Big Country & His def. S.P.I.T.C's Shooters 21-8 -Da Shaq Attack de f. Sqiush & Blowin' Hose 21-8 -Dave's Boys, We Ride def. Duck Madness 21-3 -1200 Lbs. of Trash ... def. Plaque For The ...21-16 -Kudos, Genius def. Clinton & the Inhalers 21-17 -The Official Carroll Hall ... def. 3 Fat Boys ...21-13 -Pork Chop ...2 Leprechauns & 3 Other Green ...21-15 -Yoda & the Jedi ... def. KY & the$ 150 Shooters 21-17 -Wedge def. Reggie Lewis, Hank Gathers,& ...21-5 
GREAT TEACHERS-­WANTE.D! 
The nation's leader in test preparation is seeking bright, enthusiastic teachers who are interested in part-time work and excellent pay. If you're a dynamic communicator and you had top scores on the GRE, GMAT, LSAT, MCAT, or SAT you may qualify to teach our highly acclaimed programs. Teacher auditions will be held April 24 at 6:30PM. Call Stacy TODAY at 272-4135 for more information. 
KAPLAN 
The answer to the test question. 
We're Cheap. 
And Easy. 
Why pay more for the "convenience" of on-campus shipping when Boxes Plus doesn't raise its year end prices and has free pick-up at your dorm or apartment? Boxes Plus can pack and ship anything. Cheaply and Easily. 
~ 
You can also buy boxes & shipping materials at Boxes Plus. 5622 Grape Rd. Wilshire Plaza Mishawaka 277-5555 
Bookstore 
continued from page 24 
River Bandits squad is one of the few top ten teams that doesn't have a varsity ath­lete. "We didn't think it was worth it to go out and get a big gun to help us out, because we wanted to do it ourselves." 
Some teams don't consider such scruples on the way to forming dynasties. The addi­tion of the size of a lineman or the quick­ness of a Division I point guard could mean the difference between a good team and a challenger for the title. 
"I only know my teammates through Ben Foos, a fellow football player also on the team," said lineman Mark Zatavatski, who will anchor the paint for defending champi­on NBT2. "I had offers from a couple of other teams, but I committed to these guys pretty early." 
"You've got to remember, this is a big deal on campus," he continued. "A lot of these guys live for Bookstore. If they see a guy at the Rock who can play, they'll try to pick him up." 
There is a consensus among the top play­ers that most varstity athletes have an un­questioned advantage. 
"The fact of the matter is that these guys 
Jock 
continued from page 24 
paint your body as a joke, you don't get fired up for a game. Or in the worst case scenario, you don't even bother to sign up. Has the tournament become too serious for the average Domer? 
When players introduce themselves to each other while warming up for a game, it gives the appearance of just another pickup game at the Rock in mid-February. Some players feel that Bookstore doesn't get seri­ous until the round of 32. What message does that give to the average player who just wants to play with some friends? 
This is Bookstore Basketball. On a cam­pus dotted with slogans such as "TRADI­TION BEATS POLLS." and "MEMBERSHIP HAS ITS PRIVILEGES," this tournament provides the forum for an activity that any­one can be a part of no matter what their skill level. 
Bookstore has been the traditional center­piece of the spring in South Bend since 1971. Games are supposed to begin at 4 PM each day at Lyons, the Bookstore and are just great athletes. much better than any of us," said Hood River's Smith. "However, because we don't have the big name, we're the underdog and have some­thing to shoot for." 
"If I don't have an advantage out there, I think we're underestimating Division I basketball," concurred Jason Williams, a four year varsity letter winner. "After guarding Rodrick Rhodes, Charles O'Bannon, and Brian Evans, I better be able to guard the people on this campus." 
The only question left is what the varsity athletes gain themselves from the tourna­ment. After going up against the Final Four champions, or even against future All­Americans in spring drills, why would any­one want to box out an over-zealous fresh­man taking a study break from chemistry? The answer lies in the intrinsic mindset of a varsity athlete. 
''I'm just a naturally competitive person," explained Williams. "If I agree to play in a game, I'm going to play as hard out there as I would in an NCAA game. I hate to lose." 
"I go out there to have fun, but it's pretty competitive as well," agreed Zatavatski. "It's an ego trip for everyone involved." 
Competitive drive. Superior athleticism. Marquis names. The varsity athletes in the tournament offer a whole package of skills to the microcosm of Bookstore. 
Stepan courts. The last game starts at 6:15 PM and games are played at forty five minute intervals. 
It doesn't matter how hard the rain is falling or that the temperature hovers around freezing, hoops are never cancelled. 
That's the beauty of the largest five on five outdoor basketball tournament in the world. Who cares if you have to borrow your neighbor's long sleeve t-shirt and break out your winter hat to play basket­ball? So what if there is a puddle in the middle of the court and you can't dribble the ball? Outside shots are tough to make on a bent rim no matter how hard the wind blows. 
Participation in an event like Bookstore creates memories regardless of the result. Who cares if your tallest player is 6'0 and you're playing against a team with two 6'5 giants and a 6'3 point guard? So, the other team has football players and you have not picked up a basketball since the the seventh grade? Since when do Notre Dame people back down from a challenge? 
Traditions only continue with participa­tion, and Bookstore Basketball needs the average Domer. 

Session I-May 18 to june 23 Session II -june 26 to August 3 
There are some good reasons to take classes at Holy Cross College this summer. Perhaps you could benefit from one or both of our summer sessions, each offering a wide variety of quality general education courses. Or maybe our affordable summer tuition rate of $140 per credit hour sounds appealing. 
Whatever the reason, Holy Cross College summer sessions can offer you the opportunity to use your time more productively during the upcoming summer break. You can take advantage of our exceptionally small classes, dedicated and caring faculty and our convenient location just to the west of the University of Notre Dame campus. And, of course, credit earned is transferrable. 
So why not write or call today for more information about Holy Cross College? Applications for Summer Sessions Iand II, as well as for the 1995 Fall Semester, are now being accepted. 
HOLY 

* 
CROSS COLLEGE 
Office of Admissions P.O.Box 308 • Notre Dame, IN 46556-0308 
(219) 233-6813, ext. 22 • Fax (219) 233-7427 
© 1995 

-
Thursday, April 20, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
• PROFESSIONAL BASEBAll • SAINT MARY'S TENNIS 
Palmeiro shines as Belles surpass season goal 
By CAROLINE BLUM throughout the match, howev­adjust," said Cromer. Saint Mary's Sports Editor er, for the team lost three of Cromer expressed her plea­
Orioles beat Twins 
their matches in three sets. sure with the performances of 
Associated Press 
Hafael Palmeiro went 3-for-3 and Mike McDonald pitched three shutout innings Wednesday as the Baltimore Orioles beat the Minnesota Twins 6-3. 
Palmeiro singled in the first and third innings, then hit a two-out. two-run double that tied the game at 2-2 in the fifth. Leo Gomez's single in the sixth sent Kevin Bass home with the go-ahead run, and the Orioles added two more in the seventh and one in the ninth. 
McDonald, who relieved Sid Fernandez in the fourth, didn't allow a runner past first. Fernandez alloed two runs in three innings and gave up five of the Twins' eight hits. 
Free agent Andy Van Slyke, in camp for a tryout with the Orioles, was 1-for-2 in his first appearance of the spring. 
Minnesota pitcher Eddie Guardado, competing for a job in the starting rotation, was tagged for five runs. Kevin Tapani started for the Twins and turned in his second im­pressive start of the spring. 
Only one batter got past first against Tapani, who hasn't given up a run in two starts this spring. 
He allowed four hits and struck out six before leaving after after four innings with a 2-0 lead. 
Marty Cordova had two hits and an HBI for the Twins. 
HAPPY22ND BIRTHDAY, D~~][l[l [?[!S?~~ 
ALOHA! 

-JACK, DAD, & MOM 
The Saint Mary's tennis team The Belles did not surrender sophomore Kate Kozacik and displayed a noteworthy perfor­their spirits, however. They junior Meghan Magilligan. mance last Thursday at the stood tall and victorious after Kozacik, in her match against Midwest Invitational. The their third and last match St. Olaf, beat the number thir­team's season goal was to be against Albion College which teen-ranked player in a great invited to the invitational, they won 5-4. match of 7-6, 9-7 which was a which they not only satisfied, "It was a great match. We tiebreaker, and 6-3. but bettered last year's six­play Albion again next The team's goal for the future teenth spot with this year's Thursday, so hopefully we will is to finish in the top eight of twelfth spot. continue our hard work and the tournament. 
The invitational invites six­beat them again," said head Among the top eight this year teen teams from the Midwest coach Katie Cromer. were DePauw and Hope each year. The Belles fell 7-2 Cromer was happy with her Colleges, who both had previ­to an experienced St. Olaf in team's performance on ously beat the Belles this sea­their first match. St. Olaf has Thursday, considering their son. been to Nationals the last three loss of yet another player. Today the Belles will play St. years, and is one of the invita­"We did OK on Thursday. I Joseph's College at 3:00. St. tional's best. was really happy, considering Joseph's is a Division II team, 
The second match against that we're down to only seven and therefore is very competi­Wisconsin White Water was players. Our number three tive. ... also a difficult one for the doubles had to play with a Last year the Belles fell to St. Belles, which they lost 9-0. brand new partner, and I was Joseph's 7-2, but two of the 
The team fought hard happy with her ability to matches were three setters. "Because the team beat us in 
r-----------------------------------the fall, I'm not very optimistic about today. Since the fall we lost our number two, three, four, and six players, so today's match will be tough. I do antic­ipate the match to be good experience for the team, how­
ever," said Cromer. 
The team's biggest excite­ment is geared towards their match against Wheaton on Saturday. 

Last year the Belles beat Think wlcis /or early morning studyirjg and Wheaton, and because they are : meetings! Now open fate on most nights of the week! relatively equal to the Belles' I -ability, the match should be an
Edison Plaza-1631 Edison Rd. 
exciting one.
(across /rom tf,c L;ncbada.,.) 
The match begins Saturday at
(219)273-6216 
12:30 on the tennis courts nextMonday-Tuesday 7:00a.m.-10:00p.m. 

to Angela Athletic Facility.

We<lnesday-Thursday 7:OOa.m.-Midnigbt Saturday 9:00a.m.-Midnigbt 
~--------------~--~------~------------~----~ ...~----------------------------------­
Campus View Apartments 
-
SUMMER LEASES 6 weeks to 3 months ... Furnished Apartments, All Uti I ities Covered, Central Air 
For more information 
·­
Call272-1441 
f page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, April 20, 1995 
I I • SAINT MARY's SoFTBAll 
By LORI GADDIS Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's softball team ended up with record over Easter break. Belles defeated Goshen College in both games of their double header by scores of 7-0 and 10­
5. On Monday, the Belles trav­eled to the University Chicago, splitting the games with scores of 3-2 and 2-3. 

In the ftrst game against ~he U_niversity of Chicago, Belles' freshman third Andrea Arena went 3-3 at the plate while junior pitcher Maria Vogel helped her own cause by hitting 2-3, including a single that drove in the winning run in the eighth inning. had four strikeouts and walked only one. hits off of Vogel, an indication that the Belles remained tough throughout the game to prevent in the second run. After the Thursday at 3:00. 
performance in the high jump. second along with junior Jill Although Kivinen was pleased Jusick, sophomore Kristin with her jump, she wants to Donohue, and senior Joann continued from page 24 jump one inch higher to satisfy Weed in the 4x100M relay. her season goal of 5"3' which The team's time was 54.3, the 
The invitational involved all ties the school record. best of their season. of the Division III teams in "I was excited about the "Our hand-offs were better Indiana, making it the toughest jump. I was in eighth or ninth than normal on Saturday, competition the team has en­place when I got to the invita­which is what I attribute our countered yet. The Belles tional, and I worked my way in great time to," said Powers. scored only two points in the for second, which was great," The 4x400M relay also invitational last year, but said Kivinen. earned a personal record in topped that score with their Junior Michelle Wenner also their 4:37.3 race. The team score of seventeen points on joined the personal record club was composed of Mellifont, Saturday. Saturday with her 5:00.1 time sophomore Desiree Leak, 
Erin Mellifont, a sophomore in the 1500M. This time Kivinen, and Wenner. distance runner, earned second secured a fifth place finish. "Saturday was indeed our place with a personal record of Sophomore Courtenay best performance so far this 
Records 

2:24.2 in the 800M run. Powers earned personal year. I couldn't believe the 
"I'm happy with the way I records in two of her events. number of personal bests that ran. I'm right where I want to The first in the 200M, and her we had." said Mellifont. be right now. I just want to im­prove a bit more," said 
BA 363 05 0952 ENGL 416 01 4080 LAW 679 01 3046 PSY 488B 01 4005 Mellifont. BA 391 02 0716 ENGL 416F 01 4081 LAW 695 01 4106 RLST 235 44 9544 BA 392 02 2352 ENGL 427E 01 3556 LAW 695 02 1420 RLST 393 68 9568
DART
Sophomore Paula Kivinen BA 04 ENGL 01 LAW 03 ROFR 01
392 2350 433B 3349 695 1421 371 2971also earned a second place and BA 490 02 0953 ENGL 469 01 3566 LAW 695 04 1422 ROFR 413 01 3807 a personal record with her 5'2" !:LQSED SEC:TIQNS AS OF BIOS 304L 02 0965 ENGL 492 01 3571 LAW 695 05 1423 ROSP 328 02 0133 7:0!! P,M, Mt9195 BIOS 344L 01 0967 ENGL 495A 01 3573 MARK 350 02 1432 soc 303 01 3065 BIOS 420 01 2831 ENGL 496E 01 3576 MARK 370 02 1434 soc 332 01 2947 ACCT 371 03 0827 BIOS 420L 01 2827 FIN 347 01 2872 MARK 384 01 1436 soc 370 01 2037 ACCT 371 04 0824 BIOS 420L 02 2826 FIN 347 02 2871 MARK 476 01 1437 soc 430 01 3158 ACCT 372 02 0545 CAPP 216 01 2536 FIN 360 02 1268 MATH 102 01 0466 soc 441 OJ 3831
Engagement Rings 

ACCT 380 02 2879 CAPP 303 01 3064 FIN 360 03 1269 MATH 325 03 0618 soc 448 01 3832 ACCT 380 03 3428 CAPP 315 01 1012 f'IN 361 01 1272 ME 331L 01 0380 THEO 200 04 4226
10%-15% OFF! 

ACCT 475 01 2932 CAPP 331 01 0579 FIN 361 03 1276 ME 339T 02 2923 THEO 242 01 3969 
ACCT 475 02 0603 CAPP 361 01 1013 FIN 370 01 1277 MGT 411 01 0606 THEO 243 01 0288 
ACCT 476 03 3133 CAPP 368 01 0540 FIN 460 03 3434 MI 334 01 3765 THEO 243T 01 2320
Official Wholesale Price List! 
S.A. Peck & Co. 

AERO 450 01 2925 CAPP 380 01 2533 FIN 470 01 1284 MI 486 01 3776 THEO 243T 02 23J9 
55 E. Washington, Chicago, /L 60602 

AFAM 329 01 3063 CAPP 395 01 2530 FIN 473 01 1285 MI 525 01 3780 THEO 250 01 0757 
AFAM 359 01 3461 CE 331 01 1017 GOVT 243T 05 2510 MUS 221 01 1990 THEO 260 02 3972 

Toll-Free (800) 922-009t FA:< (312) 977-0248 • 
For a Free 32-Page Color Catalog 

AFAM 425 01 3108 CHEG 355T 02 2905 GOVT 325 01 3160 MUS 226 01 1574 THEO 264 01 3085 AFAM 455 01 3463 CHEG 459 02 1039 GOVT 491B 01 3890 PHIL 222 01 0649 THEO 270 OJ 3974
Internet CaJalog aJ blip: /lwww.sapeck.comlsapeck 

AFAM 494 01 3466 CHEM 201 04 1062 GOVT 491G 01 0484 PHIL 232 01 3940 THEO 283 OJ 3324 AMST 314G 01 3876 COCT 425 01 3915 GOVT 491M 01 3896 PHIL 239 01 4208 THEO 287 01 2377 AMST 319E 02 3470 COMM 103 03 9703 HESB 491 01 3221 PHIL 239 02 4209 THEO 288 OJ 2376 AMST 354H 01 3873 COMM 103 05 9705 HIST 307A 01 4152 PHIL 243 01 3941 THEO 290B 01 3977 AMST 367H 01 3471 COMM 103 07 9707 HIST 311A 01 3228 PHIL 246 01 1652 THEO 405 01 3979 AMST 368H 01 3079 corn 310 01 4084 HIST 326A 01 3622 PHIL 247 01 3283 THTR 276 54 9754 AMST 387H 01 2978 COTH 435A 01 3525 HIST 353 01 3626 PHIL 248 01 3942 THTR 276 56 9756 AMST 398E 01 3474 COTH 4361 01 3526 HIST 353A 01 3627 PHIL 261 01 1653 AMST 409E 01 3476 COTH 440 01 2946 HIST 401 01 3237 PHIL 261 02 0531 AMST 456H 01 3246 COTH 480 01 2138 HIST 455A 01 3642 PHIL 261 03 3945 AMST 457 01 3478 CSE 332L 01 0840 HIST 456A 01 3247 PHIL 264 01 3946 AMST 478H 01 3480 CSE 413 01 0491 HIST 458 01 3078 PHIL 264 03 4099 AMST 522 01 3483 ECON 315 01 4055 HIST 458A 01 3080 PHIL 269 01 2452 !:LASSI:S THAT WILL ANTH 310 01 3486 ECON 410 01 4056 HIST 461A 01 3644 PHIL 518 01 3803 REQ~EIS AI Z;Q!! ~.M t'~!!L2~ ANTH 329 01 3061 ECON 421 01 2604 HIST 466 01 4170 PHYS 421 01 0616 ANTH 382 01 3491 ECON 484 01 3032 HIST 474A 01 2979 PLS 381 03 1790 ACCT 476 03 3133 ANTH 390 01 3153 ECON 485 01 2136 HIST 495 16 4172 PLS 443 02 2420 ARHI 169 01 0890 ANTH 431 01 3495 EE 222T 01 1135 HIST 495 58 4173 PLS 481 02 0785 BA 362 01 0949
., 
ARCH 443 03 0128 EE 430 01 4264 liPS 320 01 2133 PSY 211A 01 1796 ENGL 340 01 3542 ARCH 543 01 0889 ENGL 301 02 3538 IIPS 410 01 4068 PSY 342 01 1798 ENGL 390C 01 4132 ARCH 543 04 2731 ENGL 319A 01 2937 liPS 422 01 3763 PSY 342 02 1839 FIN 347 01 2872 ARCH 565 01 2756 ENGL 319A 02 2939 liPS 561 01 4072 PSY 355 01 0530 GOVT 325 01 3160 ARHI 169 01 0890 ENGL 320 01 3540 LAW 631A 01 1412 PSY 401 01 3922 PHIL 239 OJ 4208 BA 362 01 0949 ENGL 340 01 3542 LAW 631B 01 1413 PSY 423 01 3923 PHIL 248 01 3942 BA 363 01 0950 ENGL 390C 01 4132 LAW 631C 01 1414 PSY 454 01 0648 PSY 401 01 3922 BA 363 02 1151 ENGL 392B 01 3546 LAW 6310 01 1415 PSY 455 01 3924 THEO 243 01 0288 BA 363 04 0951 ENGL 415B 01 3549 LAW 633 01 2990 PSY 462 01 2330 THEO 270 01 3974 
.&& 

We've got just what 
VARSITY SHOP
..., 

you've been ..._ 
• 



Thursday, April 20, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 23 

BILL WATTERSON "S~IFF * I'OOR 1-\ltJl. 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
1 GOT AKOn1E.R 
l ITEL SO SORR'( 1-1£. Wf\SNl' 'fOIJ .
LEli£R FROt-1 
t\>R M'(SE.L~ l't{O ,..._,,_~---­
M'( P"'Sf SELF. DA'iS (l..GO. .;z~ 
'~-,~ 

DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
r-----------------------,0~----------------------~
>­
,. 

I CONTROL YOUR. CUBICLE. 
z l DON'T l BANIS!-\

WE'RE.I"\\VING TO A NEW 
0 
(J 
.... 

ASSIGNMENT. Nt\Y, 'YOUR. 
~ THINK. IT'S 
YOU TO Tf-\E

OF'FICE. ACROSS TOWN 
0 
... 

VERY HIS1ENCE. FROM 
~ LEGAL TO
®

I VOLUNTEERED TO 
CUBICLE
UJ
,.
.. 

NOW ON YOU WILL REFER ~ ENJ"OY YOURCOORDI NAT£. THE. MOVE 
CLOSEST TO 


• 

ust 
IC 
1me 
• h ~ ~emes er 
.-· on1gn-r 
at 



MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM MIKE PETERS CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 
Mc?hersonl01st by UnM!TSili Press Syrnhr.ate 


"That wisdom tooth on the right side was giving me a tough time. So I had to get at it from a different angle." 
,;f!,,,gr••;ERE~ :':,~ 
,t.'\ 

~Clraduflte SchoofPreparatlon Workshop: This workshop will address strategies in selecting and apply­trig to graduat~ schools, graduate assistantships and fel­lowships:'& It is geared to juniors and will take place in th 8JU6 room at LaFortune today from 3:30-5
.P• A·: 

Jiq;;:How e:ast Asia Grew So Fast? Slow Process to­wards an Analytical Consensus" will be the title of alec­ture"-by Aj~t Singh today at 4:15 in C-103 of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
lrfsh Guard tryouts informational meeting today in the LaFortune TV room at 6 p.m. Questions? Call Tim at 634-4Z7,:4. 
,···"t~· 

•MENU 
NqtreDame :·:·::T~!i;(.;: JM~. ?h > 
..!4
North . BeefTamale it>· Polish Sausage "' Rice Krispies Bars . . 
~:!m:,ll~~'/?;,;~~*¥~1:n~s~·· ";J~~i· 
~.... Sabtt Mcuy's , ~tc 
~;~~D~(;J;~;.~;·, .... ,,;1Nff-~:;;. ~?!F< Jii 

Beef Short Ribs Madera f:jiCountry Fried Steak w White Pepper Gravy · · 
Looking for design experience? 
The Observer is now accepting applications for the position of Design Editor. 
call Jackie at 1-5303 


·a e 
~e~nt union board student linton board student Unio 
South Turkey Turnovers French Fries German Chocolate 
Cake 

.__ 
... 
• 
-
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Declrned s Trapdoor 10 Lose pep 14 Whopper 15 Crerghton 
Unrversrty srte 16 Smooth the flower bed 17 Certarn Ivy 
Leaguers 18 Not as common 19Mramr of­20Veer 120' 23 Veer 24 Mouth part 
25 Without causing people much 
54 Be evenhanded excitement to clients 28 Correspond 58 "Farmer," in 32 Male delivery? Dutch 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~~~··· 
~=+::~cr.:­

'-'+=+=-lioio ~'+=-+=-1~.:.....t ~~~r-::-t.r..t-7-+.::-i~ 
R=+::+:;.~.ii,i,=+::+.-:-B.-.r.e+=BH;..l 
35 Greek· H 36 Name rn small rarlroads 37 Don't do anything suspicious 41 Voice a 
conviction 42 Foreman stat 43 ---out (add 
to) 
44 Very much 
45 --fugit 
48 "You talkin· to 
me?" 50 Three-fifths of the world's 
c
.. 
59 Fahd s larth 60 Rro nrtery. for 

short 61 Ensured 62 Popular camera 63 Not inJected 64 Bypasses, as 
commercials 65 ---Park, Colo 66 "Alice" diner 
DOWN 

1 Slows, as the flow 2 Steven Bochco TV series 3 "-your style" 4 Saguaro locale slngredient of some pet foods 6 Eastern nurse 7 Georgia plantation 8 Sundae topper 9"-Speaks" 
(1962 

autobiography)
10 Overadornment 11 Actor Bert 12 Comparable 13 Chevrolet 
division 
~ WORK THIS 

, YOUP>. BOSS! I 
MUCH
~ 
... 
~ 
c 
::> 
~ 
0> 
" 
~ 


-:-:-fiiiii!'!"!'P'!'II 21 ~=~~~e~~:~·,;he -=+~+=-! 22 Namely 
.;..;..J...'--I...:C.J..::JL..::....L.:...J 27 Potato pancake 

29 As to 
30 Furniture wood 
31 Fashion magazine 32 Cartoonist Drake 33 Approximately 
34 Wall St. workplace 36 Canary Islands 
port
38 First-down requisite 39 Gavel pounder's 
demand 
40 Charlemagne. 52 Katmandu's 
e.g. kingdom 53 Navy unit 
45 Propositions 54 Comic Imogene 46 Cable network 55 Dickens villain 47 It's just for 56 Touched down laughs 57 Stand before 49 Nimble 
58 Industry, informally51 Ere 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 


~----------------------~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
__. 
SPORTS 
page 24 Thursday, April 20, 1995 
• BOOKSTORE BASKETBAll 

First round comes to anticlimactic close 
Varsity athletes add superior skills to 
'dream teams' 
By TIM SEYMOUR Associate Sports Editor 

Bookstore Basketball is one of the few campus events that affects a true cross­section of university life, a microcosm of the campus played out under bent rims above an asphalt surface. 
It is the one event where everyone is an equal. If university president Monk Malloy fouls you, it has to be called. But even more interestingly, it gives the average student the chance to post up against an even more exclusive club, the varsity athletes. 
Members of the football and basket­ball team are some of the most promi­nent participants in the tradition of Bookstore, and their names dominate the elite seeded teams that will be com­peting for the title. 
The inclusion of athletes in the field is at once exciting and controversial. 
Certainly for many players. the chance to go up against, and probably lose to. someone who they will watch in the NFL next fall becomes a favorite memory of the tournament. 
However. there is a flip side to athlete participation. Football players routinely reschedule games around spring prac­tice, a privilege not extended to normal players. Also, since teams with athletes seem to have better chances of winning, the tournament is sometimes taken away from those nondescript students who eat, sleep, and even bleed Bookstore Basketball. 
"We thought it was important for us to stick together, to play with friends," stated senior Travis Smith, whose Hood 
see BOOKSTORE/ page 20 

• JocK STRIP 
There's more to Bookstore than 
WIDDIDg games 

Imagine this scene in a dorm room at Notre Dame after returning from spring break. 
"Do you want to play Bookstore 
Basketball?" 
"I don't know, when do we sign up?" 
"We can sign up through Saturday and it costs $10." 
''I'm not sure if we have five people who want to play just to be destroyed by one of those good teams." 

"You're right, 
_.,_______ maybe we shouldn't Dominic even bother." Amorosa Now, in another 
Sports Writer room, the conversa­tion happens this way. "Yeah, we won, but the other team didn't show up and we play our next game at 8:30 tomorrow." In addition to slippery courts and nasty falls, players in this tournament have felt the wrath of showing up for a game without an opponent and having to reschedule contests. WILL PLAY LATER and FORFEIT have occupied way too many score sheets. Well, in case anyone didn't notice, Bookstore Basketball XXIV started with 558 teams. The number increased after the committee extended the registration deadline. A couple of years ago, there were over 700 teams. It seems that if you're not on a team laden with superstars, or not willing to 
see JOCK/ page 20 
• BASEBAll 

Irish capitalize on second chance 

... 
.. 

Thursday, April 20 
NO Baseball vs. Valparaiso 
7 p.m. SMC Tennis vs. St. Joe's College 

-
3 p.m. SMC Softball at Grand Valley 3 p.m. 

By MEGAN McGRATH Sports Writer 
Its not often that you get a second chance in life. 
But the Notre Dame baseball team got another shot at Purdue and made the most of it, defeating the Boilermakers 7-2 yesterday at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Last Wednesday, the Irish lost 5-2 at Purdue and were deter­mined to avenge that defeat. 
Sophomore Darin Schmalz keyed the Irish effort. The sophomore pitched eight and third innings, surrendering five hits and striking out three. 
"This was a good win after losing to these guys last week," Schmalz said. "I had a lot of confidence in my change-up. I was able to keep them off-bal­ance and the defense played well behind me." 
"That was vintage Darin Schmalz out there," said head coach Paul Mainieri. "He threw 

Friday, April 21 NO Softball vs. LaSalle (2) 3:30p.m. NO Men's Tennis at MCC Championships Bookstore Basketball begins 2nd round 
a lot of strikes, changed speeds and let his defense work. Darin is a tremendous leader in big games like this." 
The Irish offense struggled against Boilermaker starter Eric Delany early. 
"It took us a few J!nings to adjust to Delany," Mainieri said. "He threw a lot of first pitch strikes." 
But by his second at-bat, senior Craig DeSensi had fig­ured out the left-hander. The first baseman extended his hit­ting streak to 19 games with an RBI double, scoring Randall Brooks, in the third inning. 
The lead stayed at 1-0 until the sixth. With one out, J.J. Brock and Brooks singled, and DeSensi responded with anoth­er RBI double. Scott Sollmann laid down a suicide squeeze, which scored Brooks. 
Mike Amrhein followed with his second home run in as 
see BASEBALL! page 17 

Saturday, April 22 NO Baseball vs. Illinois-Chicago (2) 12 p.m. NO Softball vs. Cleveland State (2) I p.m. NO Lacrosse at Massachusettes 1 p.m. 

•SMCTRACK. 
Personal records fall 
By CAROLINE BLUM Saint Mary's Sports Editor 

While we were home with our families on Saturday. the Saint Mary's track team had other things on their minds ­things such as personal records. The team produced an incredible number of per­sonal records in their stellar performance at the IUPU Little State Meet on Saturday. 
The team had all of the ele­ments it needed: nice weath­er, an Olympic time trial track and tough competition. The Belles used all these elements to their advantage and suc­ceeded in adding yet another great performance to the books. 

see RECORDS/ page 22 
Sunday, April 23 

NO Women's Tennis at Indiana 10 a.m. NO Baseball vs. Illinois-Chicago (2) 12p.m. 



