

Tuesday, Fehruary 28, 1995• Vol. XXVI No. 96 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Kuwik ticket to represent class of '96 
were recounted and 78 wereSophomore and determined questionable," ac­cording to Alfers.
junior classes The questionable ballots were invalidated and were removed from the final total of the
to face run-off 
Kuwik ticket. This yielded a 

By KRIST! KOLSKI 
revised total of 50 percent of 

A"is1ant News Ediwr 
the vote. Due to Student Senate bylaws, calling for a 50 percentAftnr a review and recount by 

plus one majority, a run-offthe elections committee. the would then have been held

Kuwik ticket emerged as win­between the Kuwik and Boydrwrs in yesterday's senior class 
tickets. However, the Boyd

office eleetions. There will be a ticket conceded the race to the
run-off for the junior and 
Kuwik ticket. 

sophomore elass offices. 
Alfers stated that "we wouldKevin Kuwik, with Vice Pres­like to apologize to all the tick­itl!~nt Paul Berrettini, Secretary ets. and especially the Malcolm

Kate Crisham, and Treasurer 
ticket, for the mistake on theNathan Ebeling, captured 53.8 

ballots."

pereent of the vote to represent 
A run-off will be held

the elass of 1996. 
between junior class tickets of"We're really excited because Schimpf, Zinser, Eger and Abell we have two months to do a lot (24.3 percent of the vote) and

of leg work and prepare for 
Schwartz, Hammonds, Purtell,next year," said Kuwik. 

and Loftus (34.6 percent) andThe Maleolm, McCarthy, Hy­the sophomore class tickets of d!~r and Kazlauskas ticket con­Kelley, Shrekgast, Herbert and t•~sted the outcome of the elec­Van De Yen (18.7 percent) and

tions based on a misprint of 
Murray, Moriarty, Griffin and

candidate names. They 
Doughtery (26.3 percent). 

claimed that McCarthy's named In Mod Quad Senate elec­
appeared on the ballot under 
tions, Siegfried Hall sophomoretwo different tiekets. 

Kate McShane won 65 percentludieial Commissioner An­of the electorate with 523 votes. 

drew AJfp,rs stated that all ''I'm looking forward to nextdorms were notified of the er­year and working to implementror one day prior to elections, my ideas. Hopefully more new
and corrections were made. 
ideas, through increased com­llownw~r. upon the objection by munication, will come from the l he Maleolm ticket, "the ballots 


Notre Dame student injured after accident 
By LIZ FORAN !load near the 63 mile marker :\"oria1c News Ediwr at about 6 p.m. when she came up too quickly on another vehi­A Notrn Damn student suf­cle. Police said she entered the fprnd minor injuries in a one left lane to avoid the car. and v•~hiclt~ aeeident on Sunday lost control of her 1992 Jeep evening, according to Indiana four door. ller car left the Stat!~· Toll Road Police. roadway, entered the median 
K1;1ly Nicholas, 18, a fresh­and flipped over three times. man at Notre Dame, suffered Nicholas, who was wearing only minor injuries after her her seatbelt at the time, suf­car flipptld over in the acei­fered only a cut to the head dPnt. and a swollen jaw. She was 
Nkholas told police she felt treated and released from "fatigupd" while she was east­Memorial Hospital in South bound on the Indiana Toll Bend. 

The Farley Hall Players performed the Greek tragedy "Medea" in the LaFortune Ballroom yesterday. 
Sophmore Class Junior Class Senior Class Officers Officers Officers 

Off-Camus Mod-Quad South-Quad Co-Presidents Senator Senator 
Miller 38% 

The Observer/Robert Bollman students of Mod Quad," Mc­Cavanaugh Hall freshman elections yielded Andrew Greff Shane said. Catherine McCarren, running and Matt Schindler as the new A run-off for South Quad unopposed, is the new North representatives. They reeeived Senate elections will take place Quad Senator. Sorin Hall over 66 percent of the elec­between Lyons sophomore Mai junior Christian Shields also torate. Ly, who captured 33.5 percent ran unopposed and will be the "Schindler and I have a lot of of the vote, and Seth Miller, new God Quad Senator for the hard work to do but we plan to who won 38.4 percent of the upcoming year. follow through with our cam­vote. Off-Campus Co-President paign promises," Greff said. 
NO is a leader, Malloy says 
GLND!SMC supporters face Monk at lecture 
By JENNIFER GIOVA NewsWri1er 
University President Father Edward Malloy encountered some opposition last night while speaking on the leader­ship role Notre Dame plays among Catholic institutions. 
Some members of the audi­ence questioned Malloy about Gays and Lesbians of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College (GLND/SMC) following his lec­ture "American Catholic Higher Education" in Keenan Hall. 
If there is a "flagship institu­tion," Notre Dame is it, according to Malloy, who dis­cussed the establishment of Catholic institutions, the role that they have played and con­tinue to play in today's society, and the areas in which Notre Dame needs to improve. 

Much hostility faced Catholics in the mid 19th Century and place where we can talk openly The idea of Notre Dame as a there was concern that public and enthusiastically about is­"flagship institution" led many 
schools stripped them of their sues and values of importance present to question Malloy on background, according to Mal­in a meaningful way, according the recognition of GLND/SMC. loy. To fight this, educated to Malloy. Malloy was asked by a mem­priests and lay people estab­The Catholic university has a ber of the audience, what was lished a safe place of worship challenge to be an exciting and Notre Dame's responsibility, as and education for Catholics. intellectually rewarding place a Catholic institution, to "the 
In the 1950's, Malloy said, while not losing its soul. oppressed and minorities." there was a movement to re­Malloy said that the Catholic While Malloy refused to di­think the importance of a institution should be "a place rectly respond to the Catholic education. Was it so for creative alternatives to be GLND/SMC debate, he did offer important? Did it not just pro­explored and a source of intel­insight on the issue of policy tect Catholics in a phony way? lectual exploration," which will formation and homosexuality. 
However, the Catholic educa­lead "good-willed people to "The questions of policy may tion is "healthier than it was 10 make good choices to transcen­years ago." Notre Dame is a dental questions." see MALLOY I page 4 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, February 28, 1995 

The twisted -words of illusion 
Semantics play a large role in any controversial issue. Andy Cabiness Different words are used to Sports Copy Editor make a view sound more pleasing and convincing to the public. 
Abortion is no different. Many confusing or misleading phrases are thrown around in debates and arguments regarding abortion. However. these phrases take on a vastly differ­ent meaning than they seemingly and harm­lessly imply. Here are a few examples of how abortion advocates twist words: 
Pro-choice us. pro-abortion. Groups that favor continuing legalized abortion prefer to be called pro-choice and loathe being called pro­abortion. The word "choice" is substituted for "abortion" because everyone in America cher­ishes their freedom to make choices. Being pro-choice sounds like being in favor of some­thing beneficial, not something violent and fatal. Common usage includes the statement "I would never have an abortion myself, so don't call me pro-abortion. I'm pro-choice because I think other women should have the right to choose abortion." While such people may not be pro-abortion from a personal standpoint, they still favor of the legality of abortion. 
A woman's rights with regard to her body. 
Common usage includes the phrase "A woman should have the right to do whatever she wants with her own body." Nobody would argue with this. Who in their right mind would tell a woman what she can or can't do with her body? Unfortunately, those people who use this argument to justify abortion are missing one small fact: a developing baby in the womb is a not just "a part of the woman's body." While the baby is inside the mother's body and is connected to her, it is separate. Half of the babies in mothers' wombs, the males, have Y chromosomes. Y chromosomes, by definition, 
, are not part of a woman's body. 
Product ofconception, or blob oftissue. 
Common usage: An abortionist tells a woman 
that all what is inside her is a product of con­
ception or a blob of tissue. However, by the 
time a woman realizes that she is pregnant, 
that blob of tissue has a head, a heart, arms, 
legs, and can suck its thumb. Furthermore, 
many of the babies are actually aware of what 
is happening because they try to avoid the 
abortionists' tools. 
End (or terminate) a pregnancy. Common 
usage includes an abortionist telling a woman 
that he is merely terminating the pregnancy for 
her. Pregnancies end in only two ways: a live 
baby or a dead baby. If the baby didn't die nat­
urally by miscarriage or stillbirth, then the 
baby was killed. Anytime you see or hear the 
phrase "terminating a pregnancy" in relation 
to abortion, remember that it is exactly the 
same as, "killing a baby." 
Abortion is a safe and easy procedure. 
Common usage includes an abortionist telling 
the woman that the surgery he is going to per­
form is safe and easy. If abortion is so safe, 
then why has South Bend's abortionist been 
.sued for malpractice so many times? Why is I he not licensed to practice in hospitals? Why is 
· his clinic not subject to the same safety stan­rlards as hospitals? 
The pro-abortion movement has become adept at using semantics to justify abortion The next time you read a pro-abortion argu­ment, see if any of the above terms are includ­
P.d. Few of the arguments exist without twist­ing words around in one of these ways. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Production  
Morgan Bracken Gwendolyn Norgle  Belle Bautista Susan Marx Accent  
Sports Dave Treacy  Jenny Gunzelman Pete Rubinas Lab Tech  

• WORlD AT A GLANCE 

New Denver airport opens after sixteen month delay 
DENVER 
A conga line of snowplows, tugs, and trucks loaded with equipment wound its way from Denver's old airport to its $4.9 billion new one Monday, hours before the first passenger flight was scheduled to land. 
Most of the 2,000 vehicles in the con­voy traveled at speeds of no more than 15 mph to Denver International Airport along back roads to avoid freeway con­gestion. The 22-mile trip from Stapleton International Airport was expected to take about two hours. 
Mayor Wellington Webb greeted the first commercial cargo flight to land at the new airport: a Federal Express plane that arrived from Memphis at 
12:41 a.m., 20 minutes early. 
"I think now we can put the jokes behind us," Webb said. "DIA does include airplanes." 
The airport's opening has been delayed four times because of construc­tion problems, including an automated baggage system that chewed up luggage and spit it out. It eventually was replaced by an old-fashioned tug-and­cart system at all airlines except United. 
DIA's baggage system 
I W~y wasn't the system ready lor the March 9 opening? Glitches in the computer softwa1e that conlrols how carts are routed, uf'I8Y8n now of electriCity to the system and human error ha~ caused delays In tesf!ng that utbmately led 10 postpomng the open111g of the wrport. The ba~age sy~tem was scheduled to undergo three months of testing, but it would have had onty three weeks of dry runs had the airport opened 
next week. 
' • When the cart reaches its destinatiOn, It tips and dumps the bag onto a 
C01l\18)'0flhallalces 
~~ei;oU:p'i::.an; lor 
carts, whiCh can travel at 
up to 17 mph, slow bnefly but don't stop during loading and unloading.
I
I SouiC8:Ailpor1 Fotum 
About a dozen investigations are under way into allega­tions of wrongdoing in the airport project, including shod­dy construction. 
And bondholders sued the city Monday, claiming offi­was scheduled to leave Stapleton at 9:30 

p.m. Monday. 
The shutdown of Stapleton brought satisfaction to near­by residents who had complained about the noise for years. 
"You never become used to airplane noise," she said, "so we bid a fond farewell and good riddance." 
American Airlines to stop serving pate 
FORT WORTH 
American Airlines will remove the delicacy pate de foie gras from its menu because of complaints from an animal rights group. The Fort Worth, Texas-based airline agreed Monday to stop serving the pate -a French dish meaning "fattened liver" -after People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) complained the dish is made from ducks and geese that have been force fed to enlarge their livers. According to PETA the amount of food fed to the birds is the equivalent of a human eating 28 pounds of spaghetti a day. In December, Air Canada became the first airline to stop serving the pate following complaints. 
Mexican economy continues to sink 
MEXICO CITY 
Mexico's economy continued to spin downward on Monday despite a massive U.S. aid package-or perhaps because of it. The main stock market index plummeted 
6.9 percent Monday -the worst one-day loss in percent­age terms in at least a year. Delays in long-rumored revi­sions of the government's economic forecast for the year -and uncertainty about what it will contain -helped drive the index down 106.37 points to close at 1447.52. The peso slipped again on Monday. Worth about 29 cents in mid-December, it closed Monday at 16.8 cents, down from 17 cents last Friday. One dollar now buys 5.945 pesos. The $20 billion U.S. aid package, part of a larger $52 billion fund, demanded that Mexico keep a tight money supply and run a budget surplus -demands that will help keep the economy from growing this year. Mexican officials earlier projected at least slight growth. Even a flat economy means harder times overall since Mexico's population is growing by nearly 2 percent a year. The virtual collapse of the government's economic plans has already led to growing anger among Mexicans hit with a new round of austerity measures after suffering through more than a decade of sacrifices. 


· Stapleton, the sixth-busiest airport in the nation. At Stapleton on Monday, airlines reduced flight schedules and the run­ways were to be painted with giant white X's early Tuesday so pilots do not land there by mistake. The last flight 
cials concealed problems with the pro­ject. The class-action lawsuit seeks unspecified damages for investors, 
1 
whose bonds lost value because of delays and cost overruns. A call to city officials wasn't returned immediately. 
The first commercial passenger flight was scheduled to leave the new airport for Kansas City, Mo., at 6 a.m. Tuesday, followed by the first commercial passen­ger arrival, from Colorado Springs, at 6:11a.m. 
Denver International, with its distinc­tive white-peaked roof, is the first major airport to open in the United States since Dallas-Fort Worth in 1974. 
About 1,300 flights and an estimated 88,000 passengers are expected to pass 1 through it every day, making it, like 
1 
Gorillas gossip, baboons like to watch 
NEW YORK 

Scratch gossip and voyeurism from the list of things that separate us from the apes. Koko, the gorilla famed for learning the basics of American Sign Language, likes to gossip, said Stanford University primatologist Robert 
M. Sapolsky. "After watching one of her human teachers argue with his girlfriend, Koko couldn't help telling another human teacher about it," he wrote in the March­April issue of The Sciences magazine. Sapolsky also described this scenario in an East African savanna: "Bunch of baboons sitting around in a field, when a fight breaks out. Two high-ranking males lunging, brawling, slashing at each other with sharp canines bigger than the ones of an adult lion." What do the other baboons actu­ally do? "Drop everything, stand up on two feet, push in for a closer view," Sapolsky said. 
Russia says Grozny surrounded 
MOZDOK 

Russian forces have completely encircled Grozny for the first time since the separatist war began and expect to rid the Chechen capital of the last rebels within days, Russia's military command said Monday. A top Russian official, meanwhile, unveiled government rebuilding plans for Chechnya. saying the focus will be on restoring rural areas first rather than the devastated capital. Such a plan would make it easier for Moscow to control the breakaway republic where fighting since Dec. 11 has killed thousands. The Chechens now control only the southwestern part of Grozny, a district known as Chernorechye. Russia has claimed before to control most of the city but said Monday in a government statement that its troops have completed a second ring around Grozny, thus "fully excluding the possibility" of rebel reinforcements coming in. In Geneva, the U.N. Human Rights Commission criticized Russia for its heavy-handed tactics. That is the first time a permanent member of the 
U.N. Security Council ever submitted to a formal criticism from the panel, European diplomats said. 

Tuesday, Feb. 28 Accu-Weather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, Feb. 28. 
Lines separate high temperature zones tor the day. 
FRONTS: 

"T"T" ....._..__ ........... 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 0 1995 Accu-Weather, Inc. Pressure 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 

Viewpoint Eric Ruethling Rae Sikula Graphics Meaghan Smith Robert Bollman, Jr. 1 The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday .·"<n:pt during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of j rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet @1995 Accu-Weather, Inc. 

Atlanta  58  53  Dallas  52  42  New Orleans 68  65  
Baltimore  47  37  Denver  28  15  New York  45  39  
Boston  44  33  Los Angeles 67  58  Philadelphia  47  37  
Chicago  24  11  Miami  87  67  Phoenix  77  56  
Columbus  36  27  Minneapolis  16  01  St. Louis  25  21  

.------------------~-~---~---~~­
Tuesday, February 28, 1995 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
OUC to upgrade computers 
By EDWARD IMBUS 
Associate News Ediror 
The Office of University Com­puting (OUC) is planning to up­grade all Macintosh computers available in the campus clus­tnrs and increase cluster hours, among many other changes, according to Scott Siler, the OUC student resource coordi­nator. 
Included among several pro­posed changes, OUC intends to purchase several new Power Macintosh computers, though Siler stated that the staff was unsure of which model would be bought. Those computers would replace the highest grade computers now used in the clusters, which would then be redistributed to other labs so that all Apple computers would be upgraded. 
"We want to get rid of all Macs below the Centris 610 level," Siler said. "We are def­initely going to buy a lot of computers ... as part of [OUC's] normal cycle of upgrading ev­ery four to five years. The Macs will be improved at virtu­ally all locations." 
He said that IBM computers were updated over the past summer as the first part of this process. 
In accordance with University directives, the extra computers no longer needed in the clus­ters will be redistributed to the faculty and staff on campus, Siler said. 
He said that OUC had also proposed a slight increase in hours the clusters are open, but the plan had yet to be approved by the University. Under the plan, the number of "contact hours," the number of hours cluster computers are avail­able, would increase by 18 per­cent for PC's, and six percent for Macintoshes. 
Expanding cluster hours would also presumably in­crease the number of cluster consultant positions available as well. 
Siler also announced the for­mation of a new computer lab in the new Business Building. The new cluster, he said, would be divided into two parts: one would be a classroom side with an unspecified amount of sin­gle-user IBM/DOS machines, while the other side would be a full time, group priority lab allowing two users per comput­er, again with IBM-type computers. Initial estimates by OUC state that 22 computers will be available in the group lab, and 32 will be available for classroom part of the cluster. 
The Hayes-Healy lab will un­dergo substantial changes too, 
see OUC I page 4 

WANTED BY THE OBSERVER NEWS DEPT: Motivated, eager folks for the following positions ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITOR ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR NEWS COPY EDITOR Interested? Then The Observer wants you! Please submit a resume and statement of intent to Dave Tyler by Thursday, March 2 at 8 p.m. Questions? Call Dave at 1-5323 or 4-1200.  
P ALANCA WRITING FOR PROCRASTINATORS FOOD, DRINK, MUSIC, FRIENDS COME ANYTIME BETWEEN 9:30P.M. AND 12 MIDNIGHT TUESDAY, FEB. 28 NoTRE DAME RooM, 0MPUSLAFORTUNE MINISTRY  

ND/SMC Prelaw Society elects new officers 
By MELANIE LAFLIN News Writer 

The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Prelaw Society elected new officers recently. Jason Subler, John Heilman, James Lambe, Laura Slicker, and Jen Woo were informed of their new responsibilities yes­terday afternoon in the Prelaw Advisory Office in room 101 O'Shaughnessy. 
Subler will become the Soci­ety's president, Heilman ­vice-president, Lambe -trea­surer, Slicker will take over as secretary, and Woo will become Saint Mary's repre­sentative to the group. 
President-elect Subler said he hopes to "enhance the soci­ety's purpose by educating students to help them make informed decisions about whether to attend law school while promoting the social aspect of the club through educational and enjoyable activities." 
The Prelaw Society is spon­soring a series of activities this semester, such as a special session for seniors, a work­shop on how to write a win­ning personal statement, a financial aid seminar, speech­es from local lawyers and panel discussions with ND law students on what undergradu­ates can do to prepare for law school, as well as sessions with Career and Placement. 
The Prelaw Society will also sponsor a Mock LSAT on April 8th which duplicates the actu­al testing experience as closely as possible. Several prepara­tion materials on the LSAT are available free of charge in the Prelaw office in 101 and the resource library in 104 O'Shaughnessy. 
Prelaw Society advisor, Ava Collins emphasized the impor­tance of all students taking ad­vantage of what the Prelaw Society has to offer. "Any stu­dent interested is welcome to come in or join no matter what their major or college," stated Collins. Collins meets with students daily on a walk-in basis. 
Vice-president-elect John Heilman shares a common goal with Subler "of making the Prelaw Society not only a useful activity for everyone, but a more entertaining one, too." 
A free bus trip to the Univer­sity of Michigan on April 7th to tour its law and medical schools is being offered to all interested students. Another will be offered to Northwestern on March 29th. Sign-ups are available in 101 O'Shaughnessy. 


SMART VISION 
CONTACT LENS EXPRESS 
NAME BRANDS, TOP QUALITY LENSES. AT WHOLESALE PRICES. 
Most Major Brands Tinted, Daily Wear, Extended Wear Most Lenses Within 72 Hours 
l/2 OFF RETAIL PRICE. 
CALL TODAY. 1-800-915-5367 
Students $Earn some extra cash$ 
$2o.oo 
Bring Student I.D. 
To: American Biomedical CTR 515 Lincolnway West-south Bend 
Help save a Life 
Hours: M-F: 9-6 Sat: 8-5 

234-6010 
Bring this Coupon 
18 yrs. old, bring I.D. with Proof of current address. 


page 4 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, February 28, 1995 
Main U.S. Marine contingent lands in Somalia 
By REID MILLER 
Associated Press 
MOGADISHU 
U.S. Marines swept ashore early Tuesday on the beaches of Mogadishu, this time not to save starving Somalis but to protect U.N. peacekeepers re­treating from the country's chaos. 
The first amphibious wave was met on the beach at one minute after midnight by its own commanding general and about 150 Pakistani peacekeep­ers backed by tanks. 
About 18 hours earlier, a vanguard force of about 150 Marines landed by helicopter and Helicat air cushion vessels 
ouc 
continued from page 3 
as the Architecture Cluster will close with the remodeling of that building, according to memo by Siler sent to all OUC staff. The Hayes-Healy cluster will disperse its IBM DTK com­puters and replace them en­tirely with Macintoshes. 
The Nieuwland lab has a new look planned for it as well, though Siler stressed that the changes were not certain. He said that the Macintosh com­puters "will probably be moved out ... and Sparcstations will be installed, but we don't know how many, if it goes through." 
The only lab to be untouched by the changes will be the LaFortune Lab, which Siler said had done well as the first group lab on campus. "Its use has been real good, and I think it has really helped out stu­dents in the School of Business, who have the most group pro­jects." Accordingly, the LaFortune cluster will keep its group-priority rule next year, Siler said, and its IBM comput­ers. 
on a beach at the city's seaside airport to set up a command headquarters and landing routes for the 2,000 other Marines and Italian soldiers to follow. 
"The first wave has hit the beach," Lt. Col. Mike Sovacool of Akron, Ohio, announced in the command center, where senior officials were monitoring the landing. "Everything is quiet out there. Everything is going to plan." 
Although staged with the pre­cision of a combat invasion, the Marines did not land on a hos­tile beach and were greeted by friends, not foes. 
The airport and nearby sea port were controlled by U.N. 
Malloy 
continued from page 1 
not be as simple as they may seem," Malloy said. 
On the surface, the answers may be immediately apparent to some, however, there are more implications from the im­pact that may follow, according to Malloy. 
"Policy formation is one of the trickiest things in modern University life," Malloy said. 
When asked if the University, as a leader among institutions, needed to improve or change, Malloy responded that there was a need. 
In addition to improving aca­demics, he stated, "I would hope that Notre Dame will be a place where people could find themselves respected for who they are." 
However, changing people's "hearts and minds" to accept this thinking is not easy, ac­cording to Malloy. 
In response to a question from a member of the audi­ence, who asked how he, as a peacekeepers, who have been keeping away children, scav­engers and the curious for days. 
Although they prepared for the possibility, commanders of the seven-nation U.S.-led forces did not expect a direct con­frontation with Somali militia. 
Instead, the biggest threat may be from stray bullets, mor­tars and rocket-propelled grenades fired by the rival mili­tias warring among themselves. 
The United States and its Ital­ian, French, British and Malaysian allies put together a force of 14,000 troops to pro­tect the withdrawal of the last 2,400 Pakistani and Bangladeshi peacekeepers. 

Somalia today 
Approximate areas of warlord control 

Fate of the people 
• At least 1 million are still dependent on foreign food aid. 
a Since the January 1991 overthrow of President Mohammed Siad Barre, 800,000 of its 6.5 million people fled to neighboring countries. An estimated 300,000 have since returned. 
a Somalia has restored its grain production to 75 percent of pre-war years thanks to the rural calm and strong harvests. 
a Somalia has restored Its grain production to 75 percent of pre-war years. Aid organizations plan to continue assistance programs, operating from nearby Nairobi, Kenya, and using Somali nationals to work inside the country until it Is secure for foreigners. 
a UNICEF has stockpiled medical supplies, water purification equipment and fuel in a Mogadishu warehouse. 
Fate of the clans 
a Recent reports of a power-sharinp pact between rival leaders Ali Mahd1 Mohamed and Mohamed Farrah Aidid 
were met with skepticism. 
• Economic motivations to keep the airport and port viable may result in an agreement by rival clans to share authority for the facilities. 
a Generations-long blood feuds could still erupt. 
homosexual male, could have a "life partner" within the Catholic teaching, Malloy rec­ommended reading his book "Homosexuality and the Chris­tian Way of Life." 
"The University should be a resource for both society and the Church best served by scholarly people which present as faithfully as possible the Catholic teaching," Malloy said. 


Northwestern College of Chiropractic 
is now accepting applications for its next three entering classes. (April 1995, September 1995, january 1996) 
Ge11Prnl rPqllirPmPflls nl limP of f'fllry inrludt•: 
• 
At least 2-3 years of undergraduate college in a health science or basic science degree program. (Inquire for a complete list of specific requirements.) 

• 
Aminimum G.P.A. of 2.5. (A more competitive G.P.A. is favored.) 

• 
Apersonal interest in a career as a primary care physician. 


Northwestern College of Chiropractic offers a rigorous four year professional education. Our focus on science, diagnosis, chiropractic methods, patient care and research provides our graduates with the tools they need to work as primary care physicians in the health care environment. NWCC is fully accredited by North Central Association of Colleges and Schools and the Council on Chiropractic Education. 

Cnll: 1-800-888-4777 or 888-4777 Write: DirPctor ofAdmi.~siofiS 
2501 West 84th itreeL Minneapolis, MN 5543 I 
Notre Dame Finance Club 
Guest Speaker Series 


When the Great American Dream isn't great enough 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 

ItSTEPHEN BARREIT, JR. 
Vice President & Controller 
U.S. Operations 1975 Notre Dame Graduate 
"Careers in Corporate Finance" 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 631-6385 

Wednesday March 1, 1995 7:00PM 221 Hayes-Healy 
Tuesday, February 28, 1995 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Forensic science can help prove human rights 
By TIMOTHY GREEN grounded is found in article five News Writer of the [United Nation's] Universal Declaration of Hu­
Although the famous adage man Rights, which states 'No states that "dead men tell no one shall be subjected to tor­tales," that phrase may have to ture. or to cruel, inhuman or he reconsidered in light of some degrading treatment or pun­modern advancements in foren­ishment.' All that we do is sic science. based in that statement." 
Modern forensic examination Kirschner said that his work ran help to prove human rights began in 1984 in Argentina abuses such as torture or exe­after the military dictators had nttion through examination of been removed from power, and hoth living and dead victims, the new government pledged to according to Dr. Robert investigate the disappearance Kirschner, deputy medical ex­of millions and to bring the nminer for Cook County, Illi­killers to justice. Kirschner and nois, who lectured yesterday on other forensic and anthropolog­the topic at the Notre Dame ical experts were called in to J.aw School. aid the project. 
Dr. Kirschner is also the di­As Kirchner recounted, "We rector of International Pro­discovered mass graves all grams for the human rights around Argentina and faced an group Physicians for Human immense task of identification. llights, an organization dedi­From that point our primary rated to documentation of hu­mission was established, con­man rights abuses through cerned with identification of the forensic evidence. bodies and providing evidence 
Kirschner said, "The premise of cause and manner of death in which all our work is for future prosecution." 
The Institute of European Studies 
The Institute of Asian Studies 
International Study Programs 

New Opportunities for Notre Dame Students to Study Abroad for a Year, Semester or Summer 
One Semester Business Programs in France, Germany, Vienna, London and Milan 
General Programs in these and other locations in Asia, Australia and Europe 

Information Meeting with Dr. Claudia Kselman, Assistant Director, International Study Programs 
Wednesday, March 1, 1995 4:30p.m. 125 DeBartolo 
"We found that most of the people had died from execu­tion-style killings, usually gun­shot wounds to the head ... The skulls showed multiple shotgun pellet exit-wounds which were indicative of firing from extremely close range. There was also evidence of physical torture in some of the bones." 
Since the Argentinian case, Kirschner has undertaken many similar investigations, mainly concentrated in Central and South American countries, but also including Europe, the Middle East, and Africa. 
Torture is one of the main offenses that Kirschner has investigated in his work. "Torture is a very real threat to human rights that is often for­gotten in the modern world," he said. "Most torture occurs in countries where techniques of police investigation are not as advanced as they are in the United States. Therefore, in many third world countries tor­ture is seen as an acceptable persuasive tool for criminal investigations." 
Kirschner offered examples of cases in which he had per­sonally been involved around the world, including the death of a political prisoner in com­munist Czechoslovakia and the torture and rape of citizens of Croatia and Bosnia in the for­mer Yugoslavia. 
Government-sanctioned exe­cutions are the other main of­fenses that Kirchner usually investigates, often running into problems with corruption on many levels. "When a gov­ernment is killing its citizens, one cannot rely on the local authorities to perform honest autopsies," he said. "Therefore, we are often called in by families or special interest groups to either witness or per­form autopsies. Sometimes our job is simply to examine official autopsy reports and burial cer­tificates for accuracy -we can uncover a lot of corruption and conspiracy from simple exam­inations of these documents." 

One particular case of gov­ernment-connected murder which Kirschner discussed was the infamous "El Mozote Massacre" in El Salvador, which occurred during the El Salvadoran Civil War in 1982 when government troops in­vaded the tiny mountain village of El Mozote and slaughtered the villagers. The sole survivor of the massacre was a woman who later related a horrific story of the events. 
"The witness' testimony told that all of the children and a few adults were herded into a small hut," Kirschner said, "and each member of the bat­talion took turns firing into the hut. They then set the hut on fire and bulldozed dirt over the bodies." 
Kirschner himself was part of the original forensic team which investigated the witness' story at the request of the UN Truth Commission. "At the site that she had described," he said, "we found 144 people, 137 of which were children of an average age of six, who had been killed together by auto­matic weapons. Some of the skeletal remains were charred and we also found burned frag­ments of the original structure. We proved everything that she had said through forensic and ballistic evidence, and were for­tunately able to shed some light onto this mysterious and terri­ble event." 
Kirschner also pointed out that he faces many difficulties and frustrations in his work. "In most countries, due to polit­ical or cultural factors," he said, "it is very unlikely to see justice served as a result of our investigations. If nothing else, we want to preserve the histori­cal record and to prevent any revisionist history from taking place. It is becoming common in the aftermath of such events for some people to begin think­ing that 'It never happened,' or that it would be best to simply forget about it. Personally, I don't think that it is ever a good thing to hide these truths from people." 
It may become harder and harder these days to hide the truth, now that even the dead have begun to speak with the aid of Dr. Kirschner. 
• BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
,,'j;;v>A number of events were a<nnounced at last night's Board of Governance meeting ·at Saint Mary's. 
•Notre 
Dame/Saint Mary's Relations night has been set for Wednesday, March 8 at 7;30p.m. in Haggar Parlor. Students are encouraged to join class officers from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's for this event. 

•A 
conference of the National Association of Students at Catholic Colleges and Universities is being planned for the Spring. For more information. contact Emily Miller. 

•Residence 
Hall Associations elections are this Friday in the Dining Hall. Students are encouraged to vote for hall officers. 



r----------------------------------------------, 
I 
MACARONIAUFROMAGE 
(EAT WITH GUSTO FOR ABOUT 51¢ PER SERVING.) 

2  cups macaroni  (pinwheels  are  fun)  1  cup milk  
1  cup  sharp cheddar  (grated)  3  tbs  flour  
1/2  stick butter  1  tsp pepper  
1  tsp Worcestershire  (if you  like)  1  tsp salt  

Cook macaroni in 5 cups salted, boiling water for 15 minutes or until al dente. Drain. In a separate pot, melt butter and mix in flour over low heat. Then, stir in milk until smooth. Add cheese, salt, pepper and Worcestershire. Stir well. Smother macaroni. Serves 4. 

Note: For your nutritional convenience, Citibank Classic cards are accepted at over 12 million locations, including grocery stores. 
<{ 
i 
j 
0"' 
-g 
0 
~ 
-" 
~ 
:e ... 
u 
'j a­
"' 
~ 
@) 


page 6 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, February 28, 1995 
Mardi Gras is 'safe' despite two shootings 
By MARY FOSTER 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS 
With more than 300,000 visi­tors in town for Tuesday's rau­cous windup of Mardi Gras, city officials tried to reassure revel­ers Monday that the party is safe despite two shootings near parade routes. 
Four people were wounded Sunday night during the Bac­chus parade, whose grand mar­shal was TV star John Lar­roquette, and two were wound­ed in a shooting early last week. 
Witnesses said Sunday's shooting was near Larroquet­te's float. and he climbed down from his throne as other riders ducked for cover. 
Police blamed both recent shootings on private disputes. 
"This incident was in no way related to Mardi Gras," Mayor Marc Moria! said. "We expect Mardi Gras to be its usual rowdy but nonviolent self." 
Police Superintendent Richard Pennington said 600 police were along the parade routes. 
Officers confiscated 22 guns during the Bacchus parade, Pennington said. There was one arrest in Sunday's shooting, none in the shooting last Tuesday. 
Mardi Gras, or Fat Tuesday, falls on the day before Ash Wednesday and the start of 40 days of Lenten sobriety in this heavily Roman Catholic city. It wraps up 11 days of bawdy Carnival parties and parades. 
This year's crowds appear bigger than ever despite the scattered violence, city officials said. Temperatures have been in the 70s. 
Locals joining the tourists were expected to swell the 
Crash transcripts released 
By ANTHONY JEWELL 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Newly released transcripts from the cockpit of a commuter plane that crashed into a field at more than 400 mph show the pilots uttered expletives just before the aircraft broke up in loud crunching sounds. 
Transcripts of the cockpit 
voice  recorder,  released  
Monday  before  a  four-day  
hearing  by  the  National  

Transportation Safety Board, also show the pilots struggled for more than 30 seconds to regain control of American Eagle Flight 4184. 
Investigators previously said the ATR-72 plane, which crashed Oct. 31, killing all 68 aboard, may have gone out of control because of ice on its wings. 
Concern about the perfor­mance of the turboprop planes in icy weather prompted the Federal Aviation Adminis­tration to restrict their use after the crash, but that limit was dropped Jan. 12 provided pilots have special training in flying the planes in severe weather. 
The transcripts show that less than two minutes before the plane began its nose-dive, a crew member said, "We still got ice." 

Have something to say? Use Observer Classifieds. 
We are. 
REVIEW~­
800/865-7737 
The Answer To Standardized Tests 

UPCOMING EVENTS 
THURSDAY, MARCH 2, 1995 
JOHN BRANSFORD 
VANDERBILT UNIVERSilY 
DEVELOPING LITERACY SKILLS IN URBAN STUDENTS 
4:15P.M. 
ROOM 102 DEBARTOLO HALL 
John Bronsford is Cenlennioll'rrlessor d Psychology and Co-Oiredol ol the looming Technology Cooter in Vondelbi1t Univelsity's Peabody College.lk. Bransford's reseordi hos lowsed prilxriy on !be nolule d lhinking ond leaning ond theiiiJKilitotion, em!Msizing !be use ollechnology to enhance thinking. He hos ~ research th!~ sdtool-bosed projeds, incWng oseries now used in over 4 5 slutes. 0!. Bronsford pubishes extensively in psythology ond educotion. He tool: his l'h.D. in psychoiogt otlhe UrWenily d Mimesolu. 
Pilot Orlando Aguiar twice ordered his co-pilot, Jeffrey Gagliano, to "mellow it out," an apparent reference to correct­ing the sharp dive the plane took after rolling to the right and turning upside down. 
The plane, which was wait­ing to land at O'Hare Inter­national Airport, was going more than 400 mph when it crashed near Roselawn, said Greg Feith, lead investigator for the NTSB. 
The transcript is laced with expletives and the sounds of various alarms going off in the cockpit. Thirteen seconds before the tape ends, Aguiar says: "All right, man. OK, mel­low it out." 

crowd to a peak of 1.2 million, Pennington said. Last year's crowd on Fat Tuesday was es­timated at 1 million. 
Moria! used a time-honored New Orleans crowd measuring stick: "It appears as though the amount of garbage produced thus far is double that pro­duced last year." 
Tents, sleeping bags and lawn furniture lined the trolley tracks on St. Charles Avenue, the main parade route on Tuesday. Crowds in the narrow streets of the French Quarter have been shoulder-to-shoulder since Friday. 
"There's some violence in general in any city," Moria! said. "I've long been a propo­nent of reasonable gun control and I definitely think that would have helped here." 
Some revelers were un­daunted by Sunday's violence. 
"No one around here was able to run by the time Bacchus got here," joked Bob Morris of Camden, NJ. 
"The only thing we saw was a fight on Bourbon Street," said Robert Savage of Orangeburo, SC.. "The cops stopped it in no time. They really did a good job." 

NASA expects poor forecast for launch 
Associated Press 

CAPE CANAVERAL 
NASA began the countdown Monday for this week's space shuttle launch despite a dis­mal weather forecast. 
Meteorologists expect only a 20 percent chance of favor­able conditions for Thursday's scheduled Endeavour liftoff because of a cold front head­ed towards Florida. Thunderstorms and hail are also in the forecast. 
The front should be through the area by Friday, when the odds of good launch weather improve to 80 percent. 
Mission managers will review updated weather fore­casts Tuesday and again Wednesday before deciding whether to fuel Endeavour for Thursday's 1:37 a.m. EST launch attempt, officials said. 
The astronomy mission, at 15 1/2 days, is the longest shuttle flight planned by NASA. Four scientists will take turns operating three ultraviolet telescopes aboard ; the three other crew members will tend to the shuttle. 

Notre Dame Finance Club 
presents: 
FINANCE FOR~ 

d 77

ttM t 1F
...................u......u.a.................u.n......s...... 
Jack A. Koltes 
Alliance Capital Management 

Michael C. Mewhinney i 
I

Barrow, Hanley, Mewhinney & Strauss I I 
I 
James G. Reillyl 

Alliance Capital Management! 
Tuesday February 28, 1995 7:00PM CCE -1st Floor Auditorium 
-ALL STUDENTS AND FACULTY ARE WELCOME-
Notre Dame Finance Club 
------------------~----------­
VIEWPOINT 

Tuesday, February 28, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 

News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Vicwpoim Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... KriSla Nannery Systems Manager ............................Sean Gallavan Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig S•int Mary's Editor ............... Eiiz.:obeth Regan Controller .......•.•....•••.................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer IS the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre I>Jme du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reHect the policies of the adminisrra­rion of either institution. The nc:ws is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned cdi­tnrials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. ( :nmmrmaric~. leucrs and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and nm necessarily those nf The Observer. Viewpoint space is available ro all members of the Norre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all re-.tders. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu Ceneral1nformation 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
page 7 

LU'S S~t)MRTY, YOU ~~OLt.D THE BIG Mc.OON~LV;HOT COHEE-OS£. 
I'LL-TAKE. OH TlUS TOBACCO SUIT.... 
W~Ai E~SE 
WE.GOf? 
HERE.', ONE-~ 
GENERAL MOToRS \-I.A.S. FO~ NEARLY 
A. CENTURY, fAILEO 
-ro PUT AWA~1~0 ~~ElOMTH£\R 
ACC.SI-EAATO!< 
PWAl-5! 

Pro-choice equates to passivity 
Dear Editor: countable, but what right have would have me do: I should 
In response to Kerry Mul­I to hold others accountable to simply live my life abiding by vaney's letter of last Friday I my own sense of morality? my personal standards." I must first offer my thanks for What right do I have to tell oth­should mind my own business. dispelling any doubts I might ers that they may not hold opin­I should mind my own busi­have had concerning the mean­ions that conflict with mine? I ness ... I should not make an ef­ing of "pro-choice," and then personally would never consent fort to combat injustice, to cry Pxpress my whole-hearted to driving my car and two chil­out against what I believe to be agreement with her position. I dren strapped safely in the wrong. No! I should shy away agrne that in defining oneself as back seat into a lake, but I do form the face of injustice, allow pro-dwice it means that one is not think I should force others others to nurture it while I keep "in favor of allowing each with differing opinions to con­to myself and live complacently woman the constitutional right form with mine. in the knowledge that while liv­lu dedde for herself what she I believe that the abuse of a ing children both born and considers to be morally consis­child by his or her parent is unborn are being killed, both llml with her beliefs." repugnant and savage, but that legally and illegally, at least I 
However, in the spirit of the is only my opinion. I would am not the one practicing it. gnnder inclusive society in never leave my new born baby This is what pro-choice means which we live, I would like to in a garbage can down some to me. one who would never I!Xtl~nd her definition to include alleyway on a cold winter night. approve of an abortion but one men as well as women. I am in but there are those, of course, who does not want to infringe favor of allowing each man and who would disagree with my upon the right of other people woman the constitutional right opinion that this is morally to have them. Lo decide for themselves what outrageous. they consider to be moral. Should I force my concept of EDWARD CASPAR 
I have my own moral stan­morality on all others? No! I Sophomore dards Lo which I hold myself ac-should do what Ms. Mulvaney Dillon Hall 
Policy projects prejudice 
Dear Editor: 

I've just finished reading the article in the Chicago Tribune (Feb. 2) regarding Notre Dame not recognizing the student organization for gays and lesbians, and therefore not allowing these students to use university facilities for their meetings. It truly saddens me that my alma mater continues to act in this way. My hope is that Notre Dame would not tolerate discrimi­nation against homosexuals. Instead, the administration not only tolerates discrimination, but actively projects this discrim­ination by these actions. 
l would hope that the administration would start to respond to these issues by reversing its past policy and recognizing the gay and lesbian organization. I strongly support the students' challenge to all university policies, written or otherwise, which discriminate against homosexuality. The best outcome from the publicity surrounding these policies would he to promote reevaluation and real change in these attitudes. I commend the students who are working hard toward this goal. 
I ask myself why am I now writing a letter of this kind for the first time ever? It is because I now know how very destructive these policies are, both personally and socially, and how far the implications of such policies extend beyond the immediate circumstances. Simply recognizing this student group would be an important step and one that is long overdue. 
THOMAS HANSEN, M.D. 
Notre Dame '75 

Ad01inistrative decision not suggestive of ho01ophobia 
Dear Editor: sickness, and a culpable moral evil, a to do with homophobia. The admin­
I wonder if there is any other universi­depravity. Not surprisingly, none of the istration's decision, as I understand it, ty, or indeed any other institution on the four panelists were reported to have had can with some claim to logic be based face of the earth, where people are as anything good to say about homophobia. on the long-held conviction in many reli­<;killed as they arc at Notre Dame in The discussion was not, however, held gious traditions that homosexual activity organizing utterly vapid panel discus­in a vacuum, but in the context of the is objectively sinful. To suggest that this sions, where typically four speakers get controversy about a recent administra­conviction can only spring from homo­together and say the same thing with tion decision, which several, if not all of phobia is a profoundly insensitive insult great self-righteousness and then the panelists, went on to condemn. and a massive and arrogant begging of congratulate each other on their good There seems to be an implication, the question. It is a method of debate SPnSe. nowhere contradicted in The Observer unworthy of the crudest yahoo, much 
I have long since quit going to such report, that the administration decision less purported intellectuals. panel discussions and so I have no lirst­had something to do with homophobia. If the panel had been organized with hnnd knowledge of the one recently held It is the most despicable form of argu­any attention to the most rudimentary by the Gender Studies Program. but if mentation to label your opponents sick canons of fairness, surely this point 1111' report I read in The Observer is at and depraved and evil and then spend would have been made with enough all accurate, it sank to new lows of intel­your time proclaiming that you are force to have found its way into The IPctual bankruptcy. opposed to sickness, depravity, and evil. Observer report. 
The title of the discussion was There is absolutely no evidence, nor was "llornophobia and Education." the presentation of any purported evi­JAMES RAKOWSKI llomophobia seems to be defined as dence recounted in The Observer, that Associate Professor hoth a psychological disorder, that is a the administration decision has anything Department of Economics 
• GARRY TRUDEAU 
OATING IN HIGH 50-ICO/.,~ 15 51/VfPt.Y 0tJTOFCONTRa,.! ~/?MI~~ION If TAXPAY&R~ !<N&W /A/HAT 700?/NGe., RIA~ {£}/NG ON, 7H&Y't? 1313 5/R. 
OIJ'TRA61W! 
/ 
'\\ p 


~~~~~~~~========~ 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''Liberal institutions 
straightaway cease from 

being liberal the moment they 
are soundly established: once 
this is attained no more griev­
ous and more thorough ene­
mies of freedom exist than lib­
eral institutions. n 
-Fredrich Nietzsche 


ACC~NT

page 8 Tuesday, February 28, 1995 
Poetry and oysters: A winning combination 
Bar offers unique social experience 
SMC Professor brings his powerful poetry to New Madison Oyster Bar 
The Door to the River 
Max Westler 
A black-and-white reproduction Of a painting by Willem De Kooning I tore from a book One study hall. I can't recall why I committed that first, dim act Of vandalism, even less why I Taped it to the wall opposite My bed where I lay half the night Watching those aqueous shapes. 
Years later the adult I always Feared I'd become turned a comer In a museum and there it hung­The thing itself.Ciear at once How little justice my stolen copy Had done the original. Those streaks And smears formed their own geographies­Brilliant precincts of color, Notchalky black and white. Besides, I'd somehow got it wrong, spent My entire adolescence contemplating An image upside-down. But still 
The sight was enough to transport me back To the self I'd been, the one who could Imagine with such vividness the artist In his studio, the chaos of squeezed-out Tubes and brushes that to him signified All that was right and true. On the canvas He'd just completed (you could breathe in The zing of still-wet paint) the person He was meant to become was shyly, Painstakingly trying to step through. 
By KATHLEEN KYLE 
Accent Writer 
at do bars. blues and books have in com­

mon? You guessed it...the New Madison 
Oyster Bar and you. Located just off of Niles 
Avenue (about 2 blocks from Corby's), the New 
Madison Oyster Bar offers a variety of options for bar­
goers. The Oyster Bar not only has a spacious enter­
tainment bar that provides live music ranging from 
blues to jazz to reggae, it also has a second bar that 
has regular music for the more active crowd. 

An excellent blues band provided the entertainment ~~!...)i@:i/1 ' ·"' ···-.•.· 
By LESLIE FIELD Accent Writer 
H
as your mind ever wandered during mass? If it has, it's alright because it could indi­cate great creative ability and per­haps even a touch of genius. Just ask Max Westler. 
Westler, a Saint Mary's Professor of English, first discovered that he was born to be a poet during a Christmas eve mass. While the rest of the con­gregation was religiously singing "Oh Little Town of Bethlehem," Westler had his mind on "The Little Danish Pastry Shop." Westler had recently paid a visit to this apparently unfor­gettable pastry shop and just couldn't get those hot cross buns and sweet aromas off his mind. So he wrote a poem about it. 
From that Christmas Eve night sprung a passion which has remained with Westler to this day. As this pas­sion has grown, Westler's poems have simultaneously matured. He has had his work published in numerous literary journals including an anthol­ogy, Hayden's Ferry Review and Minnesota Review. 
Westler's poems encompass a vari­ety of areas ranging from the politics of the 1960's to self discovery. "You work with what you and I can do-just start with a group of words that have a rhythm." 
Westler acknowledges that writers want to emulate the poets they love, which often provides them with an initial sense of direction and style preference. But according to Westler, the poem often takes its own course: "The words have a kind of pulse-it's too hard to have an idea­you have to have a definite sense of voice." 
last Friday night and although the music was great, the entertainment bar was lacking something aestheti­cally. With the exception of a few oriental rugs hung haphazardly around the room, the walls of the en­tertainment bar are bare, painted bricks, while the ceiling is constructed of exposed metal rafters. 
Dominated by a stage set up in the corner on a slightly raised platform, the entertainment room also features a dance floor, located in front of the stage; however, on Friday night, there was a noticeable lack of dancers. 
Ample seating is available at the numerous tables arranged around the stage in addition to seating at the bar itself. There is even a pool table located a separate room with a great view of the stage. The overall atmosphere of the bar is not unlike watching a band in somebody's basement. 
A sizeable crowd filled the tables on Friday, but the majority of these people were definitely not college­aged. The bar appeared to be very popular with young professionals and a noticeably older crowd. As a local, I was almost tempted to scan the crowd for either one of my aunts and uncles or one of my friend's parents. 
Needless to say, as a student one might feel out of place in such a crowd, as there were no more than three other college-aged people in both of the bars. 
The action in the second bar was a bit livelier, in which people could be found dancing, socializing, and playing darts. While the bar itself was slightly more stimulating. the crowd was basically the same as the staid crowd in the entertainment room. 
An Oyster Bar regular noted that the typical crowd at the bar is generally fairly mixed, normally consist­ing of a lot of young professionals, executives who are visiting town and staying at the Residence Inn just down the street, people who just come to hear the music, and college students. 
This patron also observed that since the Oyster Bar 
relocated last August, business has increased. The for­
mer location, although more intimate, accomodated 
fewer people than the New Madison Oyster Bar. 
One can't go wrong with the food at the Oyster Bar, which boasts a varied menu consisting of seafood, sandwiches and appetizers. All soups 

People have strong opinions of how poetry should be defined. But with the combination of the broad range of styles and the individualistic approach which poets are expected to incorporate, attempting to label. categorize, and define poetry seems counterproductive. 
"I feel each poem should have its own voice-some informal and some formal. You work on a poem for a while and the poem takes its own direction," says Westler. 
Poetry is a valuable medium in part because it reflects nearly every aspect of life. The things we do and the decisions we make, like poetry, frequently take their own directions. Westler believes in the value of poet­ry as a mirror of life and instills this belief in his students. 
Cara Calcagno, a sophomore in Westler's English 109W class last
'Ifeel each poem should have its own voice-some informal and some formal.' 
-Max Westler 
semester, says of the poet, "He is a very smart and dedicated man. He believes in his students and makes them feel that they can write and write well. He really defines the word educator." 
Westler has been a member of the Saint Mary's English department for 20 years and has served as the facul­ty advisor for the Chime's Literary book since his arrival. 
Through his personal commitment to the students of Saint Mary's as well as through his dedication to writing, Westler has significantly contributed to the continued success of the English department and its students, and continues to contribute to the to the greater world of writing. 
But poetry, like so many things in life, does not come easily, even for the naturally talented. Says Westler, "Of every 25 things you might take notes on, maybe you will spend time 
served are homemade, a fact which should warm the hearts and stomachs of hungry college students tired of dining hall fare. Another culinary attraction is the fact that the kitchen stays open until midnight, which is late for South Bend. The Oyster Bar does not offer any weekend drink spe­cials. 
While the New Madison Oyster Bar does not compare to any blues bar one might find in New Orleans, and while some may prefer the more "intimate" atmosphere of such tried and true drinking establish­ments as the Linebacker, the New Madison Oyster Bar does provide an alternative. If you are tired of the same old hot and crowded bars, the New Madison Oyster could be what you are looking for: a good place to go to listen to some excellent music, hang out with friends, and relax in a more soothing atmosphere than your typ­
ical South Bend..-...--.... 
bar. 

on one and actually have something to show for it." 
The painstaking nature of this cre­ative process does have its rewards, however, and often leads to a superi­or finished product. Take, for exam­ple, Westler's poem "The Door to the River." This published work deservedly made it out of the notes and possibilities pile and became a recognized work with a definite voice of its own. 
In this poem, Westler takes the sim­ple activity of study hall and trans­forms it into a poem "..about falling in love with abstract and avant garde art. It's about how you move towards the person you become without even knowing it. You love something and you don't even know why." 
Westler's poems range from poems such as this to poems about the poli­tics of yesterday and today. A power­ful example of this is Karl Marx and Hell, which Westler describes as a poem "about people from the 60's trying to survive twelve years of Reaganomics." Regardless of their subject matter, Westler's poems always seem to leave a dramatic im­pact on readers. 
Following the lead of several other Saint Mary's professors, Westler will be reading some of his poetry at the Oyster Bar. According to Westler, "It is a wonderful forum for writers to share their work." The Oyster Bar's open microphone encourages perfor­mances of all types, providing an excellent opportunity for people to demonstrate their artistic abilities. 
Stop by and listen to some of these amazing poems. And if you have a work that you would like to share, feel free to share it with one and all! And the next time you are in mass and your mind wanders, consider it an opportunity to cre­ate. Who knows ... you just might be the next Poe or Dickinson. 
The Observer/Eric Auethling 


ACCENT

Tuesday, February 28, 1995 page 9 
• HELPING HANDS 
El Buen Vecino helping Hispanic families 


By ASHLEIGH THOMPSON 
·\rccrH Writer 
T
o someone who has never taken a Spanish class, the words "1\1 Bunn Veeino" hold little meaning. Those who have knowlndgn of Spanish know that these words translate as "The Good NPighbor." llownver, for members of thn South Bend Hispanic eommunity, lhnse words mean much more. For som1~ mmnbers of this community, it is I hnir only means to become self-suffi­dlmt in a foreign culture. 
Established in January 1992 by Sara Haber. El Buen Veeino is a non­profit organization that serves as a -;upport service for members of the South Bend community. Haber, who is originally from Cuba, felt there was a pressing need. particularly in the Hispanie community. for assistance programs f()(~using on such concerns as parnnting, home management,(am and language classes, and health issues. 
Although in its mission statement thn group specifically pledges to assist low-income Hispanic families and families of migrant workers, El Buen Veeino will help anyone who comes to tlw center. Their philosophy advo­eaws independenee through educa­tion and employment instead of rr~liance on government assistance. Integral to this mission is teaching self-esteem and self-respect to fami­lies who need guidance in their transi­tion from a eulture that differs greatly from that of South Bend. 
Counseling is one of the most impor­tant components of El Buen Vecino. since immigrants frequently face a rultural environment lilled with preju­dice and unfair stereotypes. 
Notre Dame professor Silvia Hojas­Anadon is a strong supporter of stu­dent involvement in El Buen Vecino. While she does not require participa­tion from students in her Spanish classes, Professor Hojas-Anadon does encourage participation because she believes that the best way for students to truly understand the Hispanic cul­ture and its problems is to witness them lirsthand. 
The organization's projected goal for 1994 was to help fifty families, working with a budget of $10,000. Campus participation in El Buen Veeino is coordinated through CASH, Community Alliance to Serve 
• . . Photo courtesy of El Buen Vecino 
H1spamc Amencans meet to discuss achieving self-sufficiency. 
Hispanics. Elizabeth Jordan, vice-president of CASH, oversees student involvement in one of El Buen Vecino's programs, Edutra. A combi­nation of the Spanish words for education and work, the Edutra pro­gram consists of groups of threP stu­dents who visit a Spanish-spPaking household for an hour once a week and provide the family with whatever instruction the students feel will be of assistance. 
Typical situations Edutra volunteers encounter include teaching parents to speak and read English, or helping children with homework. Jordan, a senior Spanish and Government major, thinks this informal, in-the­home setting is extremely effective because many residents lack the transportation to take advantage of other programs offered in South Bend. 
"I wanted to be part of a community that has a real presence in South Bend. It's a great way to get involved in the South Bend community with a sector that really needs it. The fami­lies are excited about it and these relationships are a really neat part of volunteering," Jordan commented. Approximately 25 Notre Dame stu­dents participate in Edutra, although additional volunteers are always needed. 
Another new program for Hispanic students is Viva La Juventud. A youth group under the direction of coordina­tor Jaqui Julius, Viva La Juventud allows young Hispanic students to voice their concerns and face their problems and challenges together. El Buen Vecino is currently concentrat­ing on fund raising for this program. 
While Ilispanics currently comprise less than live percent of the St. Joseph County population, this population is rapidly expanding. The number of Hispanics in the county increased by more than 93% between 1980 and 1990 and the median age of this growing group is only 21. 
The future of South Bend depends on the assurance that this large nom­her of Hispanic youth will receive the assistance and language training they need; unfortunately, the public school system cannot always accommodate this demand. For this reason, Haber and Rojas-Anad6n, among others, believe that the Notre Dame student body is a perfect resource to tap. 
Senior Allyson Hardin has truly en­joyed her participation in Edutra. Prior to her involvement, Hardin was unaware of the growing number of Hispanics residing in South Bend, and as a result of her involvement, she appreciates the importance of Edutra as a source of family support. To con­tinue her participation with El Buen Vecino, Bardin now works as a secre­tary in the organization's office. 
El Buen Veeino is trying to expand to accommodate the growing needs of the South Bend community, so volun­teers are always welcome. Anyone wishing to contact the center can do so through CASH or directly at: 
El Buen Vecino Inc. 
404 S. Walnut Street, 
2nd Floor 
South Bend, IN 46619 
(219) 287-8228 

Surreal 'Reckless' overwhelmingly interesting 

• MEDICAL MINUTE 
Our parents meant well, but they were wrong 
By RYAN GRABOW N.R.E.M.T. 
Over the years, our parents have informed us of countless medical "facts." From avoiding a cold to protecting our eyes, no matter what the topic, mom and dad always seemed to have the answers. Unfortunately, much of this medical advice we brought with us to college simply isn't true. Here are a few corrections to some old-time medical myths: 
Chewing gum won't stick to your stomach 
Chewing gum is nothing more than an insoluble plant fiber (gum) with added sweeteners. Just like the fiber in popcorn, celery, or the wheat bran you had for breakfast, gum passes intact through your digestive tract. So don't worry about that gum you swallowed on a dare in fifth grade. It's long gone by now. 
Chocolate does not cause acne 
Acne is linked to an increase in the pro­duction of the hormone testosterone, not to your diet. When hormone levels increase during puberty, the oil glands in your skin step up production, leading to blocked, irri­tated glands • aka "acne." After puberty, your hormone production levels out, but as we all know, a combination of oil produc­tion and poor hygiene may still lead to white heads, blackheads, and persistent pimples. Neither chocolate nor any other food can be linked to this "teenage tor­ment." If you are allergic to a specific food and already suffer from acne, it may trig­ger a rash and make your existing facial condition even worse. So don't worry about giving up Hershey's Kisses, just remember to wash your face. 
Reading in poor light won't harm your eyes 
I'm sure it is a surprise to most of you, but reading in poorly lit rooms causes no damage whatsoever to your eyesight. The poor lighting will, however, make it more difficult for your eyes to focus on the page, thus causing them to work harder and make them ache. I am sure all of us who read comics under the covers by flashlight are relieved to hear that. 
Going outside with wet hair. not wearing a hat, getting your feet wet, and cold weather in general do not cause a cold 
Colds are caused by cold viruses, not by the cold. The reason colds seem to flourish during this time of the year is related in part to the fact that most people spend more time indoors in close contact with others. The viruses responsible for a cold (over 250 viruses in all) are transmitted via one's hands. Shaking hands with a cold sufferer or simply touching a door knob or picking up a phone recently used by some­one with a cold may be enough to infect your system if you touch your nose or eyes (primary entry sights) soon afterwards. Dry nasal passages also contribute to the prevalence of colds. Nasal mucus helps "wash away" cold viruses before they can make camp in your nose. Bottom Une: To avoid a cold it's more important to stay dean, than to stay warm. 
A message to my readers: Medical Minute is intended to address common health topics pertinent to the lioes of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. Its pur­pose is to present useful medical informa­tion to you, my fellow students, in an enter­taining. informative. and non-judgemental format. Starting with my next column. I will be answering your health questions. If you have a medical question you would like answered, please e-mail your request to (Ryan.J.Grabow. 1 @nd.edu), call me at 4x3267. or send your questions l'ia campus mail to Ryan Grabow 209 Keenan Hall. In addition, I will be a guest on Miranda's "Traces of Camus" Thursday, March 2nd from 7:30 to 9:30pm on WVFI 640AM. 1 will be taking your calls on the air. in addition to discussing a variety of topics including alcohol use, birth control, and sexually transmitted diseases. I thank you all for your continued interest in my col­umn and hope you tune in next Thursday. 
... 
·----­

---~-~-~-----------­
page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, February 28, 1995 
• COU.EGE BASKHBAU •NFl 

Friars upset Big East rival UConn Rumors run wild about 
By FRANK BAKER Michael Brown was fouled on reverse layup following another Associated Press the rebound and made a foul steal to put Providence up 29­

Montana's retirement 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. 
Troy Brown matched his ca­reer-high with 21 points and Michael Brown added 16, in­cluding the game-clinching foul shot, and Providence beat No. 4 C:onecticut 72-70 Monday night. 
The loss denied the Huskies their second straight Big East regular-season title. They can still clinch it with a victory Saturday night at Miami or if Villanova loses one of its last two games. 
Providence (14-11, 6-11 Big East) saw a 13-point second­half lead cut to 71-68 with 46 seconds left. Connecticut (22-3, 15-2) forced a turnover, com­mitted a turnover. then got the ball back on a traveling call with 26 seconds left. 
The Huskies worked the ball around until Donny Marshall, who sat out most of the first half with foul trouble and was benched for most of the second half, let go an air ball 3-pointer. 
shot to seal the victory. Doron Sheffer's layup at the buzzer cut the deficit to 72-70. 
Sheffer led Connecticut with 21 points, while Ray Allen had 19, 13 in the second half. 
Eric Williams scored 14 points for Providence. 
After hitting the first basket of the game -a 3-pointer ­Marshall, Connecticut's second­leading scorer, spent all but five minutes of the first half on the bench. He then played just five minutes in the second half. 
After trading baskets for much of the first 10 minutes, the Huskies took a 22-19 lead on an alley-oop dunk by Allen with 8:32 remaining. 
Providence went on a 19-6 run to take a lead it never re­linquished. 
Austin Croshere gave the Friars a 23-22 lead on a follow, then Troy Brown hit a jumper, Jason Murdock made a steal and layup and Troy Brown hit a 
22. 

Photo Courtesy of The Big East Eric Williams scored 14 as Providence upset #4 Connecticut. 
Associated Press 

SAN JOSE, Calif. 
Kansas City quarterback Joe Montana plans to retire before the NFL draft in April because he doesn't think the Chiefs have a chance to win the Super Bowl, the San Jose Mercury News reported. 
In Sunday's editions, the newspaper quoted sources as saying the four-time Super Bowl winner with the San Francisco 49ers is calling it quits "because he knows Kansas City isn't going to the Super Bowl. But (Chiefs presi­dent) Carl Peterson apparently doesn't want that to be used as an excuse for Joe retiring." 
"He's going to retire ­whether he uses the knee as an excuse or not is Joe's right," one source told the newspaper. 
Previously, the Contra Costa Times reported that Montana had scheduled knee surgery last week that would force him to retire. The surgery was not performed, although Mercury News sources told the paper it is scheduled later this year. 
The Chiefs vehemently denied Montana was planning surgery or retirement. 
"These stories are planted by somebody," Chiefs spokesman Bob Moore told The Associated Press. "As to why, I have no idea. Somebody has their own agenda. 
''I'm getting kind of tired of it because it's every week. It's always some source, then it's another source. Who the hell their sources are I have no idea." 
Montana was traded to the Chiefs in 1993. He missed five games that season due to in­juries, but was healthy for most of last season, which ended with a playoff loss to the Miami Dolphins. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
Ramada Inn of Elkhart has rooms lor Graduation weekend. Minimum stay of two nights required. $125 advance deposit per room. Conveniently located at 80/90 Toll Road. 15 miles from Campus. Send request by mail to 3011 Belvedere Rd. Elkhart, IN 46514 or lax to 219­262-1590. 
......EXPRESS YOURSELF'.... II you are going to the TRACY CHAPMAN show on March 2 and would like to share some thoughts with her, check out the LaFortune Info Desk. There. a box and some 3x5 cards have been placed for fans to write anything they want Tracy Chapman to read. Whether it be social, political. artistic, or per­sonal, she wants to know what Notre Dame is thinking. Certain entries will be read by Tracy Chapman onstage during her show. TRACY CHAPMAN MARCH 2 STEPAN CENTER 8:00P.M. $12 STUDENTS, $15 GEN PUB 
.....EXPRESS YOURSELF...... 
BLADE RUNNER 
Thursday 8/1030$1 
Lafortune's Montgomery Theatre 
Brought to you by SUB 
INTERVIEW WITH THE VAMPIRE 
Showing Friday & Saturday 
Cushing Auditorium 8/1 030 
$2 Brought to you by SUB 
WANT A FREE MASSAGE? 
Come to the massage workshop in 
the LaFun Ballroom on Wed. 3/1 
from 7-10p.m. Massage instruction 
by Pennie Christie of Massage 
Therapy Works, free food. and free 
massages!!!! 
BROUGHT TO YOU BY SUB 
$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS$$ 
Are you going to read those things 
again? I think not. 2323-2342 
Pandora's Bks NO Ave & Howard 
ILOST & FOUND I 
II anyone found a Red and Green 
Power Ranger figure at the Morris 
Inn Bus Shelter on 2/18/95 around 
1.15 pm, please call 273-5906. My 8-yr old son is heartbroken. 
Lost on 2117 at Senior Bar Valentine Party-my camera was taken by mistake. I may have yours. Mine is a 35mm Canon Sure Shot. I want my pix. Call Maria 284-5232. 
Lost -Men's thin dark brown leather gloves in Library on 1st or 2nd floor on Mon. 2120. Call O'Shag at 4­0975 
LOST: BLUE NAUTICA JACKET 
AT CORBY'S LAST THURSDAY 
IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL. 
f1EWARD. MIKE x4332 LOST: A LONG BLACK WOMAN'S PERRY ELLIS COAT @ SR. BAR ON FRI. FEB. 10 (FISHER-WALSH DANCE) PLEASE CALL CINDY @ 273-5399 W/ ANY INFO. REWARD 
FOUND-Woman's silver ring in O'Shag Ladies' room. Call 1-8635 to identify 
Last week I lost a black three-ring binder notebook somewhere --it has all of my stuff from Japanese class in it, so I really need it back. II found, please call me: X3577 
Rosanna 
FOUND: One umbrella, engraved handle outside South Dining Hall. Call 259-3267 & ask lor Umbrella Boy to identify. 
WANTED 
RUN YOUR OWN BUSINESS, GAIN VALUABLE EXPERIENCE WHILE BUILDING YOUR RESUME. EARN UP TO $10,000 (25 JOBS) HIGH DEMAND PROD­UCT, IRRIGATION SALES AND INSTALLATION. BE A LEADER: VEHICLE REQUIRED CALL STU­DENT SPRINKLERS AT 1-800­265-7691 
SUMMER JOBS-COUNSELORS & STAFF BOYS SPORTS CAMP/MASS. TOP SALARY RMIBD/LAUNDRY, TRAVEL ALLOWANCE. MUST HAVE SKILL IN ONE OF THE FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES: Archery, Baseball, Basketball, Drums, Football, Golf, Guitar, Ice Hockey, Lacrosse, Lifeguard, Nature, Nurses, Photography, Piano, Pool, Rocketry, Rollerblading, Ropes, Sailing, Scuba, Secretary, Soccer, Tennis, Track, Video, Waterski, Windsurfing, Weights, Wood, Yearbook. Call or write: Camp Winadu, 2255 Glades Rd., Suite 406E, Boca Raton, FL 33431, (800)494-6238 Recruiter will be on campus DATE: 3/6 TIME: 10:00am­4:00pm PLACE: Dooley Room -Lafortune. STOP BY-No appoint­ment needed. 
COUNSELORS: CAMP EMER­
SON, coed Mass. Swimming, ten­
nis, baseball, basketball, soccer, 
sailing, windsurfing. waterskiing, 
arts/crafts, theatre, woodworking, 
rocketry, archery, judo, yearbook, 
photography, video, radio, comput­
er, MORE! Super kids, great food, 
friendly, fun I NO general coun­
selors. 800-ST AFF95 
Macri's Deli on the East Race now 
hiring for all positions. It's a great 
place to work, flexible hours &great 
pay. Apply within 214 North Niles 
Ave. or call 280-4824. 
I need to buy or rent used textbooks for Animal Behavior, BIOS 407. II you can help, please call Claire at 634-1324 as soon as possible. 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING • Earn up to $2,000+/month working on Cruise Ships of Land-Tour com­panies. World travel (Hawaii, Mexico. the Caribbean, etc.). Seasonal and lull-time employment available. No experience neces­sary. For more information ca111­206-634-0468 ext. C55843 
SUMMER JOBS 
ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS 
PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS 
NEAR LAKE PLACID 
CALL 1-800-786-8373 
FOR RENT 
MOVE OC! Turtle Creek w/3fem 
180/mo summer/95-96: 273-6437 
HOMES FOR RENT 
NEAR CAMPUS 
232-2595 
LIVE IN A GOOD NEIGHBOR­
HOOD FURNISHED HOMES 
NORTH OF NO FOR NEXT 
SCHOOL YEAR IDEAL FOR 3·8 
STUDENTS 2773097 
FOR SALE 
For Sale: Technics 5-disc cd player w/remote-perfect condition $175 or best offer-X0640 
Mac Powerbook.1yr.old. 284-5256 
86 Chevy Nova, red, auto, air, many new parts, looks & runs great, $3500 or best offer, 272-9342 
Mac Powerbook 145, 1 year old, 
40mb, claris, word, & more. 
$1,1 00/BO wade x3064 
$#!$#!$#! I Need A Ride $#!$#1 
I desparately need a ride to the 
Houston/Dallas area for Spring 
Break. I am lor sale and will gladly 
give you my life savings!!!! I am 
also on the way to South Padre! Ill 
All I have is one tiny duffle bag & I 
am a nice traveler, l'lltalk if you 
want me to, or I'll shut up & let you 
drive. I am 6' 180 lbs & can fit in 
your trunk. I'll even buy you top of 
the line last food at pit stopsll!ll 
Call Andy at 4-1670 
I HAVE TO TICKETS TO TOM 
PETTY AND I NEED TO GET RID 
OF THEM-JEFF X 4100 
TICKETS 
LED ZEP TIX 4 SALE 
Plant/Page Chicago 4/28 
x2264 
• REM Ticket for Sale • Kansas City -May 27 Best Offer -Christian x1181 
4 Petty tix 
Mike or Jim X4333 
PERSONAL 
000 The Copy Shop 000 LaFortune Student Center 
WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE, & WEEKENDS FOR YOUR CONVENIENCE!!! 
Phone 631-COPY 
WATCH JENNY JONES ON MARCH 1ST-its on at 4:00 on WGN. See Nate dog on Luther! 
LISTEN TO US !I! MICHELLE AND KRISTA WVFI AM 640 FRIDAYS 11:30 TO 1:30 WE'RE REALLY COOLAND SIN­GLE TOO. 
Moving to L.A. area after gradua­tion. Need female roommate. Call Jill x4757 
Bevin and Theresa need a ride to the Boston area lor Spring Break.Leave 3/10. Will pay lor gas and provide groovy conversation. Call X2533 and ask lor Shaggy. 
ok my bookworm friends-i am afraid the time has come to allow the shame to go public. It has been quite an experience, and i will say that lor being on a literary festival committee. we have been rather PROLIFIC, what with our odes of rhyming couplets to chair-persons, letters to the editor, nine page itin­eraries and now the 
TOP TEN QUOTES FROM THE SOPHOMORE LITERARY 
FESTIVAL COMMITTEE (not in any particular order, or degree of shame) --It's ok! We shouldn't feel guilty. 
There's NO flesh bond! 
--uh oh. The security guard is standing there waiting lor me to whip it out! 
--Oh my God! You don't under­stand! I've just have all the my life's questions answered! 
--Excuse me, Ma'am. Ma'am? Are you Miss Sharon Olds? -SLF-1 tell you; it's a natual aphrodesiac! -"It took patience and trust, and a wee bit of lust..." -She's way too flexible! I can't handle itll -Ted! Please! Let me pass out like the saint that I am! -Don't you remember last night? I touched your vein. -Boy was Shauna out of control! She was doing body shots with­
out the salt, lemon, OR tequila! now let's not be strangers, and stay tuned lor the final , UNINHIBITED dead poet's society gathering. 
$$$$ COME ON DOWN $$$$ 
Your Chance To Kiss Bob Barker ... PANGBORN'S PRICE IS RIGHTI Saturday @ 7pm Washington Hall 
Tickets are $3 at LaFort. Info Desk! $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Need ride to Eau Claire, WI for Spring Break. Off 1-94 to Mlps./St. Paul. Will help pay/drive. Beth X2479 

LOSE WEIGHT FOR SUMMER -I lost over 20 lbs., went from a size 9 to a 3 in 8 weeks, without drugs/diets/exercise! All-natural product-guaranteed results! Kelly (800)209-2150. 
FIVE DAYS UNTIL D-DA Y! Anybody who likes the quiet type ... including you, bicycle ... call gossip central! 
To the Lawyer and the Man in the Moon... Sat. Night's Top 5: 
1. 
I'm dizzy now! 

2. 
Honnnnkk! 

3. 
Objection! Ha, ha, ha! 

4. 
Hotoill 

5. 
If I were thrown in a vat of beef, 


I could eat mysell out. Thanks for a heavenly evening! Love, the Tiger and the Girl in the World 
2 LUSTY BABES need ride to Key West. Call Kim x4528 or Colleen 287-7353 and give your best offer. 
Dan Murray-man, myth, legend is finally twenty one! I'm ready lor ya big guy! Love, Kathy Ireland 
TRIVIA TOP 17 17 We wanted to be green. 16 B+A Girls win. 15 With a hyphen 14 Triffids in Times Square 13 Dice-anywhere but the board 12 NY to OK Corral 11 II we get the initials... 10 W.C. Fields 9 Can you picture a hairless dog? 8 Conga lines ?MASH 6 Purple People Eater 5 Pixie Sticks 4 Can you spell that? 3 1st answer's always right 2 1 ref + 2 linesmen ; 3 refs 1 Women win three straight! 
II you know what's good lor you... Don't miss Pangborn's 
$ PRICE IS RIGHTI $ You could win a MOUNTAIN BIKE, KARAOKE MACHINE, COLOR TV, 
and much MORE! COME ON DOWN!!! tickets $3 @ Lafortune Info Desk 
brian-it's over ... do you hear me? 
NEEDED-Ride to and from Pensacola,FL or anywhere close lor Spring Break. Will help with costs. Call MATT x3895. 
Casi-Jones, 6 more months til the BIG DAY! Get ready! Happy late & hall b-day! We'll put off the celebration 2 niles 4 U! Be prepared 4 Thurs. nitel Much love, 
The Gamblers 
The 7th Annual 'DAWGFEST' 
is coming in lour days ..... 

Best from the Women's Water Polo Tournament 
10) The best lights are in the water 
9) We're leaving without you, hurry 
up 

8) I'm not dumb. thank you very much 
7) No angry music 
6) Are there Mary Kay Men? 

5) (speaking on hair) Guys notice too 
4) Did they think we were stopping at the gas station to have sex with them? 
3) 'Michael Miller', Patrick's broth­er? 
2) 'Breaded or grilled?' I want the chicken with the crust. 
1) I tried to moon you but my jeans wouldn't come off! Remember: April 1 is 0-day!!t 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ CAN YOU DRAW WELL Would you Like to be a part of ANTOSTAL? 
II so, come to the SUB office this 
Friday to audition as a: 
'Butt-sketch artist' 
'Posterior pictographer' 
'Derriere drawer' 

(All the same position -yes it pays) 
Looking for speed and style. 

March 3, 3-5pm, 2nd floor LaFort. 
CALL TRIXIE @4-4877 lor info. 

$Thisis paidThisispaidThisis paid$ 
Today is Febraury 28th .. Bruce Springsteen releases an album today ...with theE Street Band... Order is restored in the universe .... 
Happy Birthday, you stupid 
Wolverine-the Irishman 

Can someone explain matrix man­
agement to me again? 
just one bite...i'll run home. 

Everywhere you look...it's murder 
Dear Hound-Thanks lor the big diss. -Fox 

Oh, Mr. Denim Shirt Pitcher Man !! 
You were a little preoccupied 
with your steady, weren't ya, 
birth control? 

Congrats Schwartz, Hammonds, 
Loftus, Purtell !I Good Luck :) 

T minus 9 days until fun in the sunl 
Tuesday, February 28, I995 The Observer • SPORTS page II 
Fencers 
continued from page I6 
five weapons, winning each of the weapons without the loss of a single match. 
"With the exception of our two losses that the men's team suf­I'Pred during the year," men's hMd eoach Mike DeCicco said, "the results of our last weekend of dual meet action and this post season tournament, this tnam appears to be a repeat of the 1994 team." 
The men's foil, epee, and sabre squads each finished 12­0, while women's epee posted a 11-0 mark. Women's foil rounded out the sweep with a 1 0-0 rncord. 
"I think the team is coming together," DeCicco added. "And the captains are mostly responsible for that." 
Epee captain Rakesh Patel added 19 wins, including 10 on Saturday, and foil captain Stan Brunner finished 24-1 during the two-day competition. Sabre captain Chris Hajnik also con­tinued his outstanding fencing from two weeks ago at Duke. 
Then there's the women's captains who continue to be among the nation's elite. Between foil captain Maria Panyi and epee captain Claudette de Bruin, just one bout was lost. Panyi went an amazing 33-0 during the week­end, while de Bruin dominated with a 20-1 mark. 
"We are upbeat now and the key is to keep that up for the NCAA's," women's head coach Yves Auriol said. 
One of the top matches of the day came as the women's foil team faced Ohio State in one of their toughest tests of their un­beaten year. The Buckeyes boasted two top foilists who defeated the rest of the team except Panyi. 
"When Maria went on the strip, she was like a different fencer," Auriol added. "She was not going out there to lose." 
And she didn't. 
By downing both of the top fencers, the Irish went on to win in foil 10-6 and continue their undefeated year. 
"That was an important match due to the level of the competition," Panyi said. 

SENIOR LECTURE 
IIIia~ 
Lou Nanni 

Director of the South Bend Homeless Shelter 
Speaking about: Community Service to Your Life 
Tuesday, February 28 
7:00 p.m. Montgomery Theater -LaFortune 

• 9 

Other top performers this weekend included sophomore Jeremy Siek who chipped in 21 wins and sabreman Bill Lester who was an incredible 15-0 on Saturday. Freshman Brian Stone led the Irish epeeists by going 13-1 on Saturday. 
• TRACK 

Track teams take Alex Wilson Invitational 
By J.R. MELORO 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame men's and women's track teams proved that they can run, jump, throw, and otherwise compete with the best in the country on Saturday at the Alex Wilson Invitational. Though the meet was not scored, Irish athetes picked up points in 22 of the 32 events contested. This is quite a feat considering that nearly every event was marked by top-caliber competition. 
On the men's side, Allen Rossum continued his rampage in the sprints, this time winning the 55m dash in 6.24. Hossum is nationally-ranked in this event and will compete in the NCAA Championships on March 11-12. 
Also winning again was Brian Headrick, who took the high jump with a 6-10 mark. Dan Grenough had another solid day in the pole vault (16-4.75) and Brian McQuaid had a per­sonal-best 48.78 in the 400m. But the most excitement of the day was centered around the distance medley squad of co­captain Joe Curran, Danny Payton, Joe Hoyer and Jeff Hojnacki. After going stride­for-stride with Arizona, includ­ing Royer's gutsy 3-quarter leg, the Irish fell to 2nd and just missed provisionally qualifying for the NCAA's. 
The Irish ladies were once again sparked by Allison Howard and Erica Peterson. This time it was Howard win­ning the 400m (56.05) and Peterson a close second in the BOOm (2:10.40). The mile had Irish written all over it, with a 2-3-4 finish from Amy Siegel, Emily Husted and Kristen Dudas. Siegel broke her sec­ond school record in as many meets, this time with a 4:55.32 finish. 
The meet was concluded in a flurry of blue and gold as the Irish men's and women's mile relay teams took home victories in 3:16.85 and 3:50.80, respec­tively. Next weekend, the men send a strong squad of quali­fiers to the IC4A Championships at Princeton. 
the J u n e test 
Lut claa begins on: Wednesday, March 1 
Caii1-800-KAP-TEST 

• Aa documenled In lhe May 1994 Kaplan LSAT f'elfonNnce SIUdy conducted tJv Price Waterhouse. 
In epee, sophomore Maria Thieneman was 10-0 on the first day, while Colleen Smerek notched nine wins. 
Notre Dame now travels to Appleton next weekend to com­pete at the NCAA Midwest Regional Qualifiers. 

last chance to preparefor 
KAPLAN 

last chance to prepare for the Spring tests 

1-800-KAP-TEST ~·t a higher score
Lut claa beclns on: Thursday, March 2 
KAPLAN 

Last chance to get a higherscore! 
Last class begins: Thursday, March 2 
TARGETED TRAINING lsthemost customized, flexible approach to GMAT study ever. 
last chance to prepare for the April test 
Last.class begins on: Wednesday, March 8 
Call: 1-800-KAP-TEST get a higher score
KAPLAN 

Call: 1-800-KAP-TES ••ta higher score 
KAPLAN 

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, February 28, 1995 
• SWiMMING • MEN'S TENNIS 

Records fall to Irish Irish tumble to TCU, top Jayhawks 
slVimmers in MCC 
By BETSY BAKER 
Sports Writer 
Records were shattered all over Rolfs Aquatic Center last weekend as the Notre Dame women's swimming team con­tinued its record-breaking sea­son with its eighth consecutive, and final, Midwestern Collegiate Conference Championship title. 
Seven of the Irish swimmers combined to set 15 meet records, two pool records, three NCAA qualifying times, and a sweep of the conference awards. Junior Jesslyn Peterson, who set six meet records in the 200 Individual Medley, 400 Individual Medley, 200 Breastroke, and as a mem­ber in the 400 Freestyle, 800 Freestyle, and 400 Medley relays, was chosen as the MCC Outstanding Swimmer for the 1994-95 season. 
Freshman sensation Shelley Hotchkiss set five meet records and one pool record in the 200 Freestyle, 500 Freestyle, 1,650 Freestyle, and as a member of the 400 and 800 Freestyle Relays and was also named MCC Newcomer of the Year. Another important accomplish­ment of Hotchkiss was her achievement of NCAA consider­ation times in the 500 and 1,650 Freestyle events. 
"Both Jesslyn and Shelley set three individual meet records and received NCAA considera­tion." said Irish Head Coach Tim Welsh. "They have been consistent for us all year and it really showed last weekend." 
In addition to Hotchkiss, the Irish youth, in their first and last year with the MCC, made their mark known. Freshmen Lauren Relay won both butter­fly events and was a member of the 400 Freestyle Relay. all events in which the Irish set meet records. Fellow class­mate Courtney South also swept the backstroke events with meet records, leaving the only event that the Irish didn't win the 100 breastroke. 

Pat McKelvey 
5 bedroom 
house for rent 
·'95 & '96 school year ­

"All year, we talked about how important it would be to do well in our last MCC perfor­mance," said Welsh. 
"It was by far our best meet of the season. We were the defmition of strength through­out the conference. This could be the strongest team we've ever seen." 
The women's team led all three days of competition and eventually won by over a 130 point deficit. 
The Irish men's team did not have the record-breaking per­formance that the women had, but did have its strongest per­formance of the season. Despite placing third behind three-time MCC champion, La Salle, and Wright State, the men's team put up a good fight and produced some very strong performances. 
The men's performance was highlighted by sophomore Ry Beville's meet record in the 200 butterfly. Semor Kevin Scott, sophomore Matt Rose, and freshman Ron Royer marked impressive times for the Irish. 
"If you look at the times, we had an excellent championship performance," said Welsh. "It was in no way disappointing for us." 
Coach Welsh commends not only his team's performance, but also its improvement 
hroughout the season. 
"We've improved a great deal since Christmas," said Welsh. 'The freshman have played a strong role and the upper­classmen have remained con­sistent." 
Welsh was also honored last weekend as he was named the MCC Coach of the Year, an especially significant honor considering it is the last year in the MCC, as the Irish will move to the Big East next year. He remains humble in his recep­tion of the award, giving credit to his team. 
"We get those a:ards, but the team earns them. 
Please, Recycle The Observer 

By B.j. HOOD 
Sports Writer 
Following the Notre Dame men's tennis team loss to top ranked Stanford on Thursday, at least the Irish knew they wouldn't have to play the num­ber one team in the nation on Friday. 
They would have to play the number eight team in the na­tion. 
Amidst a season where the top twenty-five and Notre Dame's schedule can be used interchangeably, the Irish struggled once again in a 6-1 loss to Texas Christian on Friday. 
Mike Sprouse was Notre Dame's only winner on the day, posting a 6-1, 6-4 victory over Stefan Figley. Ryan Simme was defeated at number one singles 6-2, 7-6 (6) by Paul Robinson. 
Texas Christian's Jason Weir­Smith defeated Jason Pun 6-4, 6-2 at number three singles, David Roditi defeated Jakub Pietrowski 6-4, 6-4 at number four singles, Ashley Fisher best­ed Steve Flanigan 6-4, 6-4 at number five, and Andres Urencio beat Ron Mencias 7-5, 4-6, 6-1 at number six. 
Texas Christian won both matches in doubles competi­tion. The team of Robinson and Roditi defeated Pun and Sprouse 8-6, and Fisher and Weir-Smith defeated the tan­dem of John Jay O'Brien and Simme 8-2. 
In Notre Dame's final match on Saturday, they clashed with twenty-fourth ranked Kentucky. Kentucky was vic­torious in the February 16th matchup of the two teams, but Notre Dame had revenge on Saturday, along with a much needed boost of confidence. 

"I thought we played all right overall." Ryan Simme said. Just about everybody played pretty well against Kentucky." 
Notre Dame won three singles matches and the doubles point for the 4-3 victory. Simme de­feated Jason Thompson 7-5, 6­3 at number one singles. Simme had lost on both Thursday and Friday. 
"I had been struggling lately, but I played well the first and second matches that I lost (in Louisville), and the third match I won," Simme said. "Maybe playing well the first two matches helped me to win the third one." 
At number two singles, Kentucky's Ludvig Sundin was victorious over Mike Sprouse 6­3, 6-3; Cedric Kauffmann of the Wildcats defeated Jason Pun 7-5, 6-1 at number three singles; Marcus Fluitt of Kentucky prevailed at number four singles over Jakub Pietrowski 6-4, 6-4; Notre Dame's Steve Flanigan defeated Ford Lankford 6-1, 6-2 at num­ber five singles; Ron Mencias topped Kentucky's Dan Spaner at number six 6-2, 6-7 (5), 7-6 (4). 
The team of Pun and Sprouse defeated Lankford and Thompson 9-7, Flanigan and Pietrowski defeated Fluitt Spaner 8-4, and Kauffmann and Sundin defeated Notre Dame's Brian Harris and Ryan Simme 8-4. 
Notre Dame (4-5) continues its season on Wednesday against Wisconsin. Simme feels the tough competition the Irish have been facing will only improve the team. "Tougher competition helps you along the way," Simme said. 
INFORMATION SESSION ON STUDY AND WORK IN IRELAND 
will be held on Tuesday, February 28th at 4:30p.m. in Room 115, O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
1995 Transfer Orientation Chairperson 
Pick up applications in Student Government office Second Floor LaFortune 
Application Deadline: March 1st, 4:00pm 
Applications are now being accepted for 
ltanaaer Posi'*ions 
at 

Alu~nnli Senlior Club 
for the 1995-96 academic school year. 
\J 1\1 You may pick up applications at the 
itLU~Office ofStudent Aaivities, 315 LaFortune. 
Fully furnished with security system 

~1\Tlo Deadline March 1st 1995
258,9996 

Tuesday, February 28, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
•NHL 
Penguins set records against Quebec 

Hoops 
continued from page 16 

would leave the Irish at 15-12 with a two-week wait before the NIT announces its selec­tions. 
Notre Dame's drawing power could overshadow its recent woes in the eyes of the NIT. Duke is another potential selec­tion despite a sub-.500 record. Big names would draw more attention to the NIT than better records. 
But a loss tonight would make it all a moot point. Not even Notre Dame could earn an in­vite with five straight losses. 
"In order to put positive thoughts in the minds of the tournament selectors, we have to perform well tonight," Justice said. 
That leaves the seniors little time to savor their final mo­ments on the Joyce Center floor. 
It has been a tumultuous tour 
Baseball 
continued from page 16 

ters we didn't score and no one really did their jobs, but (CSU­Fullerton) is a great team." 
The Irish were able to bounce back admirably Sunday against Pepperdine, led by a 4 for 5, five RBI performance by Topham. He missed hitting for the cycle by a single. 
Topham began the scoring for Notre Dame in the first, driving in DeSensi on a double. After Pepperdine had taken a 4-1 lead in the fourth, Topham led off the Irish half of the inning with another double. He later scored on a George Restovich triple, followed by a two-run homer by Richards. Notre Dame scored another run on a Randall Brooks sacrifice fly to for the trio, who have suffered through some of Notre Dame's worst basketball moments. 
But there have been some high points, an upset or two every year that inspires some interest in the Irish. 
And after tonight, they will have to wait to learn whether or not they will ever play an­other game in an Irish uniform. 
"It's hard to believe that this could be my last organized game ever. But I don't think it will settle in until the game is over," Justice said. "Right now, we're preparing like this is any other game." 
Overlooking Loyola has hurt Notre Dame before. 
The Ramblers beat the Irish by 12 at the Joyce Center last year. Notre Dame rebounded to squeak out a two-point win in the rematch at the Rosemont Horizon. 
Center Bernie Salthe leads the Ramblers with 16 points per game and point guard Theodis Owens adds 14. 
Associated Press 
QUEBEC 

The Pittsburgh Penguins blew apart a matchup of the NliL's best teams with seven goals in the second period Monday night. 
l.uc Hobitaille had two goals and two assists as the Penguins beat the Quebec Nordiques 7-5. The Penguins and Nordiques entered the game with identical 13-3-2 records, tied for first place in the overall standings. 
"We made some nice plays," said Hobitaille. "It was tic-tac­toe. The puck was really rolling for us." 
Pittsburgh had lost twice since defeating Quebec at home 5-4 last Tuesday night. 
The Penguins erased a 2-0 defieit with their second-period blitz, which set a team record for goals in one period of a road game. Pittsburgh had eight goals against San Jose in a home game in 1991. 
.John Cullen, Shawn McEachern, Larry Murphy, Len Barrie and Jaromir Jagr had 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 
the other goals for the Penguins, who scored six times in a span of 7:23. 
The Nordiques tied a club record for most goals allowed in one period. 
"It was a strange game. It wasn't really open play. It seemed every time someone had a an opportunity to score, they scored," Robitaille said. 
Quebec pulled within 7-5 when Andrei Kovalenko and Bob Bassen scored on Ken Wregget in the third period 
"You have to expect that type of game against Pittsburgh," said goalie Stephane Fiset. "Our game is to play more de­fensively and the next time we face them, we'll be ready for them." 
Cheered on by an announced crowd of 15,399-the season's first sellout at the Colisee -the Nordiques were ahead 2-0 on power-play goals by Mike Ricci in the first period and Wendel Clark 1:47 into the second pe­riod. 
Cullen and McEachern scored 25 seconds apart, starting at 
5:02 of the second period, to erase the disadvantage. 
Less than a minute later, Claude Lapointe, playing in only his second game of the season after a back injury. scored to restore the Nordiques' lead. 
But Murphy tied it 41 seconds later and Robitaille, one-timing a wrist shot for his lOth goal, put the Penguins ahead for good at 9:24. After the goal, Quebec coach Marc Crawford lifted Fiset for backup Jocelyn Thibault, although Fiset re­turned to start the third period in goal. 
Barrie made it 5-3 with Pittsburgh's second shot on Thibault. Robitaille added the sixth goal on a nice setup by Jagr and Robitaille did the same for Jagr on the Penguins' seventh goal. 
The Penguins played without defenseman Kjell Samuelsson, out with the flu. 

take a 5-4 lead. 
In the very next inning, the Irish put the Waves away. Again it was Topham providing the offensive fire-power with a two-run triple. RBI singles by Richards and Brooks and an unearned run gave Notre Dame a 10-4 lead. 
Topham hit a two-run homer in the sixth, and the Irish still weren't finised scoring as Richards had an RBI single and Christian Parker had an RBI double in the eighth. The Waves added one more run in the seventh for the final margin of victory. 
"It felt good just to win," Topham said of Sunday's per­formance. "We showed that we're a pretty good team. We didn't quit after the two losses and were able to bounce back to beat a ranked team" 
WE NEED A FEW GOOD PEOPLE 
Kids Corporation operates Summer educational programs in Newark, New Jersey. Each summer we hire college students who are interested in urban education and the needs of young children. This is not a job, it is an experience. We work long hours to provide the kids with a sense of hope and opportunity. 
Students receive $100 per week, room and board, and three college credits in Urban Education from St. Vincent College. The work is hard and the hours long, but the kids are great. If you are interested in learning more about this opportunity write or call: 
Kids Corporation 13 9 Lincoln ..Laurel Rd. Newton, N.J. 07860 
Orlando I. Perozzi Director 908..362..7410 
Meet at the CSC Thursday, March 2 from 6 ...8 p.m. if you are interested 

~U41t4'"" 'riledt ~ 
~ 
I&eckiess 
By Craig Lucas 
Tonight and Tomorrow Night 
7:30p.m. Washington Hall Tickets Available at LaFortune Box Office $3.00 
GET INVOLVED! BE PART OF PLANNING 
YO~ W{ 1J w;w~ APPLY FOR A POSITION ON TH£ 
1996JPW 
EXECUTIVE COMM11TEE! 
DON'T MISS OUT! 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT THE LAFORTUNE INFO DESK. APPLICATIONS ARE DUE IN 315 LAFORTUNE BY 5:00P.M. ON 



~­
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, February 28, 1995 
Freshman Kelly Nichols earned
.lACfWSSE 
a save by going the final three

Softball
-.,r 
innings against the Hawkeyes. 

continued from page 16
Nittany Lions top Irish squad 
"This is exactly how we need­

wins over Iowa and Tulsa. 
ed to start the season," Miller 


By DAVID TREACY Sports Writer 
In all battles, there must be a winner and a loser. 
When the final whistle blew Sunday at Penn State to end the contest, the Nittany Lions ended up on top of the Irish 15­
14. But the war rages on. 
Penn State played a funda­mentally sound game, gaining an important edge on ground balls 51-42, and faceoffs 19-7. Keeper Ryan Jewell and the Irish defense had a tough time with a strong Lion offense, whose 41 shots led the Irish by one. Mike Busza led the Lions 

Irish fall twice in Wisconsin 
By TIM SHERMAN Assistant Sports Editor 
For the third straight season, Notre Dame violated the Cardi­nal rule of tournament play. They faced Stanford. 
Playing for fifth place in the 16-team USTNITA Women's National Championship, the Irish dropped a 6-1 decision to the 9-1 Cardinal on Saturday in Madison, Wis. 
For the past two seasons, Notre Dame's year was ended by Stanford in the NCAA Tour­nament. This time, the defeat didn't quite have the finality of a season-ending loss, but, with 
=Flying Club 
Spring Semester Introductory Meeting 311A Cushing Wednesday, March 1 8-9 p.m. 
All Welcomed 
with 3 goals and three assists, while Greg Jackson and Mike O'Keefe scored 4 and 3 goals, respectively. 
It was not an easy home vic­tory for Penn State. Midfielder Will Sutton, returning from knee surgery which kept him out of play last season, sparked the offense with 5 goals and 2 assists. Co-captain Randy Colley was not far behind, net­ting 4 goals and an assist. 
As far as talent goes, the Irish squad does not believe that the better team won on Sunday. Aside from a scrappy nature, the Nittany Lions squad had no advantage over the Irish. 
three of the seven matches coming down to a third set, it was by no means easy to swal­low. 
The weekend began auspi­ciously as the 5-5 Irish defeated UC-Santa Barbara in the first round by a 5-2 margin. 
However, the momentum was short-lived as coach Jay Loud­erback's squad ran into the buzzsaw known as the Georgia Bulldogs in the second round on Friday. 
The no. 1 Bulldogs, who boast four nationally-ranked players, were simply too much for the 15th ranked Irish, as they pitched a 6-0 shutout. Once Unfortunately, the determined play of the Penn State team led to a few lucky goals that kept them in a position to win. 
"I think we were a better team than they were. We just didn't do the things we needed to do to win the game," said Sutton. 
Coach Kevin Coorigan agreed with his resurgent middie. "We did not do what we needed to do as a defensive team, and that led to several lucky goals for Penn State. We're a better team than they are, the score just doesn't reflect that. But, we offer no excuses." 
again, three matches were ex­tended to three sets only to see the Irish fall. 
That defeat set up the show­down with Stanford. For the second straight year, Wendy Crabtree, Notre Dame's no. 1 singles player, provided the only Irish victory . 
Crabtree, the nation's 26th rated player, won a three set marathon against no. 10 Kaite Schlukebir, 4-6, 7-5, 7-5. 
This win sent the match to the doubles round, but Schlukebir and Ania Bleszynski ended it with a 6-4, 6-4 defeat of Crab­tree and Holyn Lord. 

SYRACUSE ABROAD 
Discover England, France, Italy, Spain or Zimbabwe: 
~~1~-~·AI.... ...~.
A ~­
• 
Earn academic credits while taking classes in yoy/host country language or Engli · .~-------_.-···-) 

• 
Study' o'T"su ... / 

• 
T ·· field trJ •I 


PRC)ARA'M~ ABROAD 119 Euclid e."S~ac[l]se~·~lew York 13244-4170 1-80Q-235-3472•315-443-3471•DIPA@suadmin.syr.edu 
Perkins, who batted a scalding .427 in the tourney, doubled home Giampaolo in the fifth in­ning for the go ahead run in a 5-2 win over the Hawkeyes 5-2. 
Sophomore shortstop Meghan Murray belted a 235-foot, two­run homer to center field to key the 6-1 win over Tulsa. 
Sophomore hurler Joy Battersby was credited with both wins on Saturday. 
THE 
S1YLE 
Sun 12-4

CO. INC. 
"Alternative Clothing for Today's Woman" 
THE STYLE CO.,~ INC. Grand Opening, Feb 27, 1995! 
A unique shopping experience without the Grape Rd. hassle. 
• 
Over 40 styles of Hats 

• 
Open evenings and Sundays 

• 
Alterations and layaway available 


1912 S. 11th, Niles 687-9123 
"In the newly remodeled Belle Plazan 
said, "We played with intensity and confidence right from the beginning. But we have a very tough tournament next week­end at Texas A & M." 
"We'll play a lot of games in a short period of time, which is very difficult early in the sea­son, especially for pitchers." 
The quantity of games will be tough. But probably not the Texas weather. 
Hours M-F 10-8 Sat 10-6 

I 'JUo.day~='Y 28, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 15 MIRRORlAND HUY NGOC PHAN CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 
! Hl\vt Stvt'A/11. 1<.1rJD.) Of NO. 1116 Rf. ARt No "Til Iff MEIII'Ci •MY!!£ A~D ~ot1f.
1 

CALVIN AND HOBBES What happened in 
Concord m 1775 ? 
DILBERT 
Lt.ts llE HoN~St. 'loU"Rt. aW.•N(:, "''E a!lout col-I coRd? I REL'i oN +1-\t. ll~S dRIVER to F"1Nc:\ 1-\'i oWN HouSE fll.0 M 1-\E.RE. CoNcoRd could B£ oN NBP+ui'\B foR qlL I \(~ow. 

AND TED GE.T5 TI·U S 8 ''SI~GULAR. AC.\-\IE.VEMENT" ~ AWA~D fOR C~E.ATING ~ 
2 

ThE. ''WE. AR.E. TE./\i"\5" Cl 
CAJ"\PA1GN 1; ~ 
u 
!I) 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 30 Tackle box glzm'o
t Snitch 
32Jazz'sKid­

11986World Series champs 33 Stendhal hero 
o"You said ltl" Julien 4 Mora washed H Wedding guest 
out 31 Take aIa a Over magicians 1 Pop singer 40 Sinatra 
Laura standard 7 Senator Specter 42 Wise a Pro -43 February 
8 Bushy hairstyle forecast :o 1970 George 45 Katmandu's Harrison hit land 13 Astronaut's 
47 Narcs' grp. 

"fine" a"So Big" author 14 Catch sight of 10 Robert Shapiro, tS Tropical e.g.
animals 12 Singer West 
n Bill Haley's band 14 Pocket bread 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~~t!!~·~
lllilt':'-t-::±~"1111 
2 

55 Shoemaker's helper, in story 
1160's sitcom a Composer Janacek 
M Nabisco brand u Walkie-talkie 11 Landlocked Asian country 17 Void's partner a In-(stuck) IIScurrier$ 70 Strike out, as copy 71 Post offices have them 
DOWN 
t W.W.IImeat 2 On one's guard 3Woes 4 Shortstop Reese 1 Hemingway and 
others 1 "Back to the 
Future" role 7 List shortener 1Baum dog 1 "In the Heat of 
the Night" locale tO Literary olio tt Lerner-Loewe
musical t2lnaccuracy t:SCrannies 

ij~m:tJiiM It British college R~~~H-7-12 "Tuna-Fishing" painter -:-t.::-t::-+.':-1 11 Blc products .::-r.:,..r.,.+:::-~ 27 Flatfoots 21 Ph.D. exam 
BILL WATTERSON 
1>-t.IO Wl-lqt HqPPEI--IEc:\ 22o ~I~.S aGo?.,., I'l-l a kid. I do\ol't 1<1-1oW W\\qt$ GoiNG oN to-loW. l do!-~'t 1-\qi/E Q 51-\REQ oF toNtE~t 'oR QN'i oF tl1iS. 
., It"s l-loP£L'C.SS, lo-\1SS WoRt4Wooo, i 
~ol't:LESS. 
i .; ~ 
!!
.. 
..:::0 ..
.. 
II 
211989 Daniel Day-Lewis film 30 Underground 
way 31 Applaud 34 Sandberg of the 
Cubs 
31 "The African Queen" screenwriter 
37 Abrade 38 Track contest 41 Ivy Leaguer 44 Barbershop 
request 
SCOTT ADAMS 


"They say If we switch back now, we'll get 25 percent off all calls made to people with red hair." 
• OF INTEREST 

Leah Carroll will speak on "The Varying Outcomes o Violent Democratization in Columbia: Four Regional Case Studies" today at 12:30pm in C-103 Hesburgh Center for International Studies . 
Recruiters from the Channel Post Graduate Program, Greg Kramer and Rich Shively, will be on campus from March 1-3. They will be available from 9:00am to 12:00noon at the Center for Social Concerns on Wednesday, March 1 and from ll:OOam to 2:00pm on Thursday March 2 at the Hesburgh Library Concourse. 
2/28 
54 Capitalist tool 17 Quiz choice 18 Terrible rigor 18 Norse chief 10 Supreme Court 
col"(lplement It Lays down the lawn 83 Draft letters 
•MENU Notre Dame 

NORTH DINING HALL Sausage and Onions Oatmeal Raisin Cookies Sweet Potato Pecan Pie 
Saint Mary's 
Soup Bar Salad Bar Mardi Gras Buffet SOUTH DINING HALL Chicken Strips Rice Pilaf Pumpkin Squares 

Have 
something to 
say? Use The Observer classifieds 
~­
~~·' 
........t.'­
tiWI! 
48 Football fling 
48-questlon (certainly) 
st Japanese mustard 
12 Perry's secretary 
13 City SSE of Buffalo 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-42o­5656 (7~ each minute). 
SPORTS 

page 16 Tuesday, February 28, 1995 

Last stand for class of 1995 

By JASON KELLY 
Associate Sports Editor 
Lamarr Justice is in limbo. 
He and classmates Jason Williams and Billy Taylor play their final home game tonight when Loyola (Ill.) visits the Joyce Center at 7:30. 
It may also be the final organized game they ever play. That's up to the people who pick the 

_v.s.Ct 
r r's last recruiting class, or NIT invite extend the of Notre Dame seniors 
Lamarr Justice, Jason Williams, dBilly Taylor? For the latter occur, the Irish (14-12) must 
recover from afour-game losing streak and finish the regular season with awin over a hapless Loyla team tonight. A post-season appearance would provide valuable experience for Notre Dame's younger players 
who will leap into the rugged 
season. 
participants for the National Invitation Tournament. 
Notre Dame's invitation seemed licked and sealed barely two weeks ago, but a four-game losing streak has the sender hesitating to adhere proper postage. 
A victory tonight over lackluster Loyola (5-20) 
see HOOPS I page 13 

Arizona State classic lifts Irish to 3-1 start 
By NEIL ZENDER 
Spans Writer 

It's gotta be tough being on the Notre Dame softball team. The club opened their season last weekend, toiling in the hor­rid weather of the Arizona State Classic, while the rest of Notre Dame was blessed with the wonderful climate of South Bend. Perhaps the burden of being away from Indiana weather was somewhat lifted by the Irish's three wins in four games, the best start in Notre Dame softball history. Two of them came against top Midwestern squads Michigan and Iowa. 
"This was our best perfor­mance to open the season in my three seasons at Notre Dame," head coach Liz Miller said. "We hit very well against some high-caliber pitchers." 
The Irish didn't stop at hitting well off opposing pitchers. They robbed them -literally. Notre Dame was eight-for-eight in stolen bases, a mark that would surely make Our Lady proud, Jet alone Coach Miller. 
Appropriately, the first game of the season was an extra-in­ning affair on Friday night against Michigan. The Irish proceeded to defang the Wolverines 4-3, behind the All­American arm of Terri Kobata, who whiffed 13 batters in a complete game effort. Sophomore left fielder Elizabeth Perkins singled home freshman Jennifer Giampaolo to knot the game at 3. Giampaolo then scored the win­ning run on a Wolverine passed ball. 
Later that night, the Irish dropped a devilish 4-1 decision to Arizona State. The game proved that one bad inning can ruin several good ones. The Irish held the Sun Devils score­less over the last five innings, but the charm was spoiled by a three run second inning. 
On Saturday. Notre Dame rapped out 18 hits in a pair of 
see SOFTBALL I page 14 
• fENCiNG 

Fencers dominate 
• BASEBAll 
Irish open season in California 
By MEGAN McGRATH played well Friday, but we give up 17 earned runs, 15 hits, Sports Writer didn't do the little things that 11 bases on balls and hit five you can't practice indoors." Fullerton batters. For the Notre Dame baseball 
On Friday against Texas. Starter Larry Mobs was team, the opening weekend of 
Notre Dame rallied in the sev­knocked out of the box after the 1995 season was a little like enth and scored four runs to giving up a five-run second in­
a Clint Eastwood movie: cut the Longhorn lead to two, ning in which he threw two "The Good, the Bad, and the 
trailing 7-5. Texas responded wild pitches and gave up a two­Ugly." with three runs in the next two run double to leftfielder Tony The weekend at the Anaheim 
innings to put the Irish away . Miranda. Hilton and Towers Tournament 
The Longhorns loaded the Justin Gleichowski finished started out bad, with a 10-6 
bases in the seventh, but Irish the third uneventfully, but Joss to fourth-ranked Texas pitcher Rich Sauget hit Kip freshman Dan Stavisky gave up Friday night. Harkrider with a pitch, scoring seven earned runs in the next 
It quickly got ugly Saturday as Jerry Taylor. Texas scored two and a third innings, includ­host Cal-State Fullerton handed 
again that inning on a sacrifice ing a grand-slam by Titan first­the Irish their worst loss in fly by Chris Edelstien and basemen D.C. Olsen. Stavisky seven seasons as the second­
added an insurance run in the was replaced by junior Garret ranked Titans triumphed 20-3. 
eighth. Carlson, who hit the first two But Notre Dame was able to Sophomore third-baseman batters he faced and recorded salvage some good, as they beat 
Mike Amrhein went 2 for 4 with one out before giving up a No. 24 Pepperdine 14-5 in the 
two doubles and two RBI to three-run homer to Miranda. last game on Sunday. 
lead the Irish. Senior captain Gregg Henebry mopped up in The Irish were at an experi­
Craig DeSensi also went 2 for 4. the last two innings, but also Pnce disadvantage in California, 
Edelstien led the Longhorns, gave up five earned runs. facing three teams who had 
going 2 for 4 with four RBI. Miranda went 3 for 4 with five been practicing outdoors since 
Sophomore right-hander RBI and Olsen went 2 for 3 with .January and had each played in 
Darin Schmalz took the loss for 5 RBI. DeSensi and center­fourteen games. Notre Dame, lasting three and fielder Rowan Richards both "In our first two games we 
one-third innings, giving up went 2 for 4 to lead the Irish. were coming right out of Loftus, 
three earned runs and six hits. "It was a disheartening 'iO it was good to be outside for The pitching staff on Saturday game," Topham said. "As hit-a couple of days," said junior 
fared far worse than Schmalz, rightfielder Ryan Topham. "We as five pitchers combined to see BASEBALL I page 13 


When looking at the results of last weekend's Midwest Fencing Team Championships, it is inevitable not to draw com­parisons to last year's national championship squad. 
In 1994, the Irish used the 
they dominated the competition 
from throughout the midwest. That was then. This is now. Not much has changed. The Irish simply overpowered 
the 13-team competition in all 
see FENCERS I page 11 

of note . .. 
.... IRISH LACROSSE 
The Fighting Irish played at 

Look for previews of Bengal Bouts 
Penn State last weekend. 

in tomorrow's Sports section. 
SEE PAGE 14 
LACROSSE 



