
Wednesday, March 29, 1995• Vol. XXVI No.lll HE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARYS 
Progra111 unites young and old 
By PEGGY LENCZEWSK Saint Mary's News Ediror 
S
aint Mary's College Adopt-A-Nun program provides members of the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame community with an opportunity to get in touch with an older generation and a sense of histo­ry while bringing retired nuns the joy of youth. 
The program, which has run for over ten years, gives stu­dents the name of a nun to be­friend. The nun may reside in one of three convents: Our Lady of the Holy Cross. Saint Mary's Annex, or Hosary Con­vent. 
Due to reconstruction, many of the retired nuns who resided on campus in Rosary Convent 

McBrien: Theology plays iiDportant role 
By TIM GREEN NewsWrirer 
All Notre Dame students are required to complete six hours of theology. Many students may wonder "why?" 
Yet, according to Father Richard McBrien's lecture last night held at the CCE, theology is a distinct field of study which in fact plays an important role in academic life. The lecture was based on a paper written by Professor McBrien concern­ing the place and purpose of theology at a Catholic univer­sity. 
Father McBrien began his lecture by defining theology through a series of negative theses which. as he said, "in­tend to state what theology is not.." 
"Theology is not faith," McBrien said, "it is a more or less systematic effort one makes to understand an expe­rience with God; or as St. Anselm wrote, theology is 'faith seeking understanding."' 
"Theology is not catechesis­McBrien involved the age-old debate concerning the compat­ibility of theology with reason. According to McBrien, "Theol­ogy does not begin at the point where reason gives out." 
"Traditional Catholic teaching has rejected both the extreme left-'rationalism' or 'truth through reason alone'-and the extreme right-'fideism' or 'truth through faith alone,"' he said. "There is no conflict be­tween faith and reason...faith is consonant with reason. and reason is illumined by faith." 
McBrien continued to define more specifically the role of theology and the theologian. 
He feels the theologian's task is qualified by three audiences which theology must speak to: first, the church community; second, the academy-college or university related people; and third, the wider society as a whole. 
"The theologian at a Catholic University addresses these three publics from an ecumeni­cal perspective," he said. "The place and function of theology at a Catholic University is in promoting dialogue between faith and reason, and therefore serving all other disciplines." McBrien stated that although theology is based in faith and religion, it also "remains at once academically serious and socially realistic." 
see THEOLOGY/ page 4 

of the group, the program is a great success: "It gives stu­dents the opportunity to learn the heritage of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, which is tied very closely to the Saint Mary's tradition." 
see ADOPT/ page 4 
catechesis is an 'echoing of faith,' meant mainly for the potential or new member of the church." In contrast, McBrien said, "The task of theology is to think critically about, question, and challenge faith, and is in­tended for the mature be­liever." 
Another point put forth by 
were moved to the two off-cam­pus convents. Hosary Convent is connected to the back of Holy Cross Hall. 
The program is run primarily by four students, Leigh-Anne Hutchison, Cassie Sears, Kim­berly Pohlman, and Christina Knych. 
These students encourage members of the program to visit "their nun" and plan monthly events for the convents which allow these nuns and students to interact in a fun and social manner. 
According to Leigh-Anne Hutchison, one of the directors 

• HALL PRESIDENT'S COUNCIL Beary and Schlatter to serve as co-chairs 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST Associate News Editor 
Kristin Beary and Matt Schlatter will serve as co­chairs for the Hall Presidents' Council during the 1995-96 academic year, it was announced at the council's meeting last night. 
Beary, a junior from Breen­Phillips Hall, and Schlatter, a junior from Zahm Hall, were the only two people to run for the two available positions of co-chairs. As a result, no for­mal vote was taken to install them into office. 
Nonetheless, outgoing co­chairs Hilary Bonenberger and Hich Palermo were enthusiastic about the coming year under Beary and Schlatter. 
"They will do a superb job," Bonenberger said. "I was happy to see that the council will be headed by both a man and a woman. I think they will balance each other well. 
"The campus should be look­ing forward to a good year," she added. 
Beary and Schlatter have yet to formulate specific plans for their term, but said they will do so in the near future. Each stressed the possible capabili­ties and the leadership of the council's incoming members as the keys to a productive term. 
"HPC has the potential to do a lot of good for the campus," said Beary. 
Schlatter agreed. "The coun­cil has the potential to become very powerful." 
In other HPC news: 
• Amy Carroll, president of Students for Environmental Action, asked for volunteers to help in a reforestation project this Saturday from 10 a.m. to 1 
p.m. at an undisclosed site in northern Indiana. 

About 40 students are need­ed to plant nearly 1700 trees into already-dug holes. If SEA, which is co-sponsoring the pro­ject with the Living Earth reforestation organization of South Bend, can attract the 40 volunteers, it will receive $100 from Living Earth to be used during Earth Week, April 16­22. 
SEA would use the money to help fund a concert to benefit the building of a recycling cen­ter at the South Bend Homeless Shelter, Carroll said. The con­cert, to be held in Stepan Cen­ter on April 20, would feature the groups Little Milton and Uraeus, among others. 
Those interested in volunteering can call Carroll at 4-4311 until Friday night. 


Patronage crucial to science 
By DAVE PREISSLER NewsWrirer 

Science did not really flour­ish until the sixteenth century just before the outbreak of the so called Scientific Revolution. 
A professor at Indiana Uni­versity, Richard Wesfall, dis­cussed with his audience this, and other components of his thesis on patronage as it per­tained to the mathematicians of early modern science last night in DeBartolo Hall. He received his entire stock of credentials (his BA, MA, and PhD) at Yale University, and he is currently a professor of history of science at Indiana University. 
Wesfall introduced his thesis with a look at the Medieval Ages and the European univer­sities' academic foci. During this time the institutions cen­tered on Aristotle's philosophy, and were moving toward the Natural Philosophies. At the end of the thirteenth century after Aristotle and Christianity had been reconciled, these institutions began to support the Natural Philosophies as patronage of these studies became increasingly promi­nent. 
With this background infor­mation, Wesfall jumped right into his main points as he said that the Scientific Revolution could not have taken place without patronage. 
With the growing population of Europe, there was a demand for mathematicians and engi-needed what were called mili­tary engineers in order to cre­ate the best forts. 

Because water management and fortifications were impor­tant for and pertained to cities, the governments and magis­trates funded these advance­ments. The third and fourth technologies pertained more 
see SCIENCE/ page 4 
neers to control water man­agement. These "hydraulic engineers," as Wesfall de­scribes them, needed to design aquaducts and canals for the expansion of trade, and drain swamps and deltas for the spread of cities. Second, fortifi­cations became more important as population grew and defense was needed. The governments 

--------------------------·-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, March 29, 1995 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Government requests gag order against lawyer 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

Bulls salvation talk of nation 

''I'm back!"  Pete Rubinas  
Your roommate says it  Assistant Accent Editor  
when he returns to your  

room after going to the store for some good­ies. You say it hesitantly when you return to the arctic tundra that we call Notre Dame after a sunny break in South Padre. Rarely, however, have those two words carried as l}lUCh weight as they did a little more than a week ago when, on March 18,. Michael Jordan announced his return to the Chicago Bulls in Chicago. 
"I'm back!" 

These two words threw the city of Chicago, my hometown, into an uproar which is usually reserved for events such as the Chicago Flood a few years back. Or the Bears winning the Super Bowl in '85 (Gosh, was that already ten years ago?!?)). Or the start of the Persian Gulf conflict. You get my point. 
Now, my brother and I were trying to watch the NCAA Tournament on CBS when Michael decided to make his announcement. Every twenty minutes or so, the local CBS affiliate would break in with a "2 News Special Report." I understand that this was a big story, but did it really warrant the same amount of attention that the beginning of a WAR does? 
Here is what I don't understand. It took Michael about two seconds to say the words "I'm back." Why did it take the TV stations ten or fifteen minutes to analyze this state­ment? What part of "I'm back" didn't we all understand? Yes, when I heard it, my heart skipped a beat, and my mind raced through the endless possibilities almost immediately. But, somehow, it only took me about two min­utes to dwell on the revelation, and then I wanted to get back to the college game I had been watching ten minutes ago. 
"I'm back!" 

Now what exactly did these two words mean to my beloved Bulls? Well, first of all, it meant that once again my Bulls are back in the title chase. I have learned over the first two decades of my life never to doubt the abil­ity of Michael Jordan to do the impossible. And winning the championship with the mediocre team that currently is the Bulls defi­nitely qualifies as impossible. 
How did the rest of the NBA take this an­nouncement? David Stern, the NBA Com­missioner. was visibly overjoyed to hear of Michael's return. Others were a little less thrilled. Take Knicks coach Pat Riley, for instance. When told of Michael's return, all Riley had to say was "Jordan coming back obviously changes the thinking of who can and who cannot win." 
Pat can take comfort in knowing that every other team in the Eastern Conference proba­bly views Michael's return as a mixed blessing as well. After all, Michael is probably the sin­gle biggest generator of cash in the NBA, or all of sports for that matter. However, he has this amazing capacity to beat your team in the process. 
"I'm back!" 
Only time will tell just how "back" Michael is. If I were you, I wouldn't bet against him. For now, I will just be happy to watch him soar above the opposition, working his magic of old. For, as the inscription on his statue outside the United Center says, Michael Jordan is "The best there ever was. The best there ever will be." 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• NATIONAl WEATHER 

The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, March 29. Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
• TOOAY'S STAFF  
News  Viewpoint  
Dave Ring  Meaghan Smith  
Deborah Schultz  Victoria Pratte  
Sports  Margee Husemann  
Tim Sherman  Production  
Accent  Susan Marx  
Shannon Marie Johnston  Michelle Marcotte  
Angie Reluer  Graphics  
Brian Blank  


MINNEAPOLIS 
Prosecutors asked for a gag order and sanctions Tuesday against attorney William Kunstler, who is defending a daughter of Malcolm X against charges that she plotted to kill Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan. The motion accused the prominent civil rights attorney of "consciously and blatantly" violating court rules, despite repeated warnings, as part of a strat­egy to prejudice potential jurors. Kunstler represents Qubilah Shabazz, who is scheduled to go on trial next month on charges that she tried to hire her high school friend Michael Fitzpatrick to kill Farrakhan. According to transcripts of their telephone conversations. Shabazz believed Farrakhan was responsible for her father's assassination in 1965, and feared for the safety of her mother, Betty Shabazz, because her mother had publicly expressed her suspicion of Farrakhan. Shabazz, 34, has pleaded innocent and Kunstler and her other attorneys have claimed she was entrapped by Fitzpatrick, the gov­ernment's star witness. Farrakhan, who denied any role in the assassination, has also said he believed Shabazz was set up. The prosecutors' motion cited a rule that says that lawyers should not release information or opin­ions ifit is likely that doing so would interfere with a fair trial. "It's the pot calling the kettle black," Kunstler said in a statement. U.S. Magistrate Franklin Noel of St. Paul, who has been handling pretrial motions in the case, warned attorneys on both sides in a letter Jan. 24 that they had not been fully complying with the rule. 
BOX OFFICE 
ToR weekend ____ 
I~C»VI~S 
Weekend of March 24-26 
All dollar figures in millions  
Gross to date, weeks In  Weekend  
release, number of screens  gross  
Outbreak  $8  

$40.7, three weeks. 2,230 screens 
'W:Iilt> :~~':,':, -:~~~.e1 ,989 screens $7 
$5.7 
The Man of the House $3.2 $30.1. four weeks. 1,995 screens 
Tall Tale: The Unbelievable $3 Adventures of Pecos Bill $3. one week, 2,065 screens 
Candyrnan: Farewell to $2.8 the Flesh $1 0.1. two weeks. 1 ,594 screens 
Bye Bye, Love $2.6 $8.4. two weeks. 1 .379 screens 
Muriel's Wedding $2.56 $3.7. three weeks. 573 screens 
Pulp Fiction $2.5
<iiililiPt+ $95.1 , 24 weeks, 1 • 1 02 screens 
Forrest Gurnp S2 $317.1, 6 weeks In re-release. 1,119 screens 
Source: Exhibitor Relations Co.• Inc. AP 
Clinton boasts about Olympics 
ATlANTA 
Opening a seven-day trip taking him to three states and Haiti, President Clinton told Olympic organizers Tuesday that the 1996 Summer Games in Atlanta will make Americans' feel better about themselves. Clinton was in Atlanta to convene an economic conference modeled on his 1992 gath­ering of economists, business leaders 

and workers just before he took office. He plans to explore how his economic package has affected working­class Americans and hopes to convince voters his policies have improved the nation's fiscal state. Clinton, who flew into an airport in House Speaker Newt Gingrich's district, began the trip with an evening speech to staff and volunteers of the Atlanta Committee for the Olympic Games, organizers of the 1996 Summer Olympics. Looking ahead to Wednesday's conference, Clinton said Americans still feel insecure about their future despite a strong economy. 

Police nab bra slasher 
LAKEWOOD, Colo. 
A retired trash collector was arrested after stores in the Denver metropolitan area discovered scores of bras had been slashed. Milton Anderson, 63, was arrested on suspicion of criminal mischief and released on $500 bond. The vandal damaged bras of all sizes, shapes and brands, always slashing only the right cup. "There's some psychological significance, I'm sure," said Lakewood police Sgt. AI Padilla. Anderson, of Denver, was arrested Friday after a clerk at a Woolworth's store found eight damaged bras. Anderson had just left with his purchase -a pair of women's underpants, Padilla said. Store employees previously reported the destruction of 50 bras. Within hours of Anderson's arrest, however, women's slips, underpants and bras were discovered slashed at a Denver Kmart store. Investigators suspect a man who was arrested for stealing a book from the store. Several other area Kmart stores have been hit, including another store in this suburb where 365 bras were report­ed slashed in less than two weeks. 

Coach caught for cheating 
CHICAGO 
A teacher who admitted slipping answers to his high school students as he coached them for an academic competition last year has been suspended temporarily from his $40,000-a-year job. Jerry Plecki, an English teacher at Steinmetz High School, was removed as its academic coach last week and suspended with pay while disciplinary authorities consider other possible penalties, including dismissal, school Superintendent Argie Johnson said Monday. Johnson said school officials already have begun the long process of trying to fire Plecki. Plecki has admitted to cheating at a 1994 regional competition of the Illinois Academic Decathlon, which tests students' knowledge in 10 areas, from math and science to the fine arts. He said he found test answers lying on a desk at the school where the event was held. But he and his 1995 team deny that they cheated this year -even though the team last week was stripped of a statewide title, Principal Constantine Kiamos said. This year, Steinmetz won the state championship round by scoring 49,500 of a possible 60,000 points. 

Children's habits are unhealthy 
NEW ORLEANS 
One-quarter of America's schoolchildren don't eat fruits or vegetables every day or brush their teeth every night, and half think apple juice has more fat than whole milk, a nationwide survey found. The survey's sponsors say the message is clear: Bad health habits as well as good ones start early. The survey was conducted by the American Health Foundation, a private New York-based research organization, and Scholastic Inc., a publisher. Dr. Ernst L. Wynder, the foundation's president, said the findings show Americans are doing a poor job of educat­ing youngsters about healthy ways of living. "Rather than blame the children, we should blame ourselves," he said. Wynder released the survey findings Tuesday at a conference sponsored by the American Cancer Society. It was based on a questionnaire distributed to 3,112 chil­dren in grades 2 through 6. 'These statistics knock you out of your chair," commented Dr. Edward J. Sondik, acting director of the National Cancer Institute. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 

Atlanta  74  52  Dallas  56  50  New Orleans 67  
Baltimore 49  44  Denver  34  21  New York  55  
Boston  43  31  Los Angeles 75  53  Philadelphia 56  
Chicago  44  38  Miami  81  70  Phoenix  72  
Columbus 49  40  IVil~  47  33  St. Louis  55  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


----·~----­
----~-----------------~---­
Wednesday, March 29, 1995 The Observer • NEWS 



Affirmative action under fire 
By LINDSEY TANNER 
Associatod Pross 
CHICAGO 

Chicago spent millions to de­sign what it believed was an unbiased police promotion exam. Then the results of the lieutenant's test came back: just 13 minority cops among the top 175 scores. 
Mayor Richard Daley added to the furor by promoting 
another 13 oflicers - most of  
them minorities  - without  
regard to scores.  

Now both the police rank and file and minority leaders are angry, and Daley has a hot issue on his hands just a week before the mayoral election. 
The promotion system, which ignored some test scores in the interest of diversity, is an example of the kind of affirma­tive action programs increas­ingly under fire in Washington. 
And the promotions are par­ticularly thorny in Chicago, \\!here friction between police and minorities has persisted for decades along with suspicions that political clout -not merit -propels civil service careers. 
"We arc trying to be fair, but it's hard to do without some­body getting angry," conceded Susan Sher, the city's top lawyer. 
Daley's administration delayed releasing the results of the lieutenant's exam until after he won the Feb. 28 may­oral primary. The mayor finally announced March 14 that 54 sergeants, including three mi­nority cops, would be promoted on the basis of test scores. 
An additional 13 sergeants, eight of them minorities, would be promoted on the basis of 
presented by jJt.& the ARAB·AMERICAN CLUB 
merit evaluations, in the inter­est of diversity. 
The department "cannot be all white. It cannot be all black. It cannot be all women. It can­not be all men. It cannot be all Asian or Hispanic. This is basi­cally a fairness issue," Daley said 
The decision seemed to please no one. 
Patricia Hill, president of the African-American Police Association, said the exam was biased and the 13 sergeants are political appointees -claims the city denies. 
Meanwhile, minority and white cops marched side by side last week at City Hall to protest the merit promotions. One carried a sign that read: "Clout-less, will work for pro­motion." 
"Of course we need more minorities. That goes without saying," said Ray Patterson, a 57 -year-old black police lieu­tenant. But the solution is "to come up with a more fair test." 
"Everybody knows who the 13 are, so it's going to be hard for them," added Sgt. Michelle Owens, a 19-year police veter­an who said she was passed over for promotion despite high test scores. "There's always going to be a cloud around them." 
Sgt. Melba Bradford, one of the merit appointees, told the Chicago Tribune that the merit­selection process was fair. "I have earned it and that's all I have to say," she said. 
Chicago's police promotions have long been criticized as biased and politically motivat­ed. 
On the advice of a blue-rib­bon panel, Daley two years ago spent $5 million to have outside consultants revamp and admin­ister the tests. A furor erupted last year when minorities scored poorly on the redesigned sergeants' exam. 
"Every time we make promo­tions in the Police Department, there are lawsuits, sometimes from white officers, sometimes black officers, sometimes both," Sher said. 
Of the 175 top scores on the lieutenant's exam, all but 13 were posted by whites. Of the 222 lieutenants in the de­partment before the latest pro­motions, fewer than one-fourth were minorities. 
The controversy comes at an inopportune point in the cam­paign. Daley's closest com­petitor is Roland Burris, a for­mer state attorney general who is black and has criticized the promo tons. 
But Burris has trailed far behind Daley in recent polls, and the flap isn't expected to affect the outcome of the April 4 election. 
Alderman William Beavers, a black former police officer who is chairman of the City Council's Police and Fire Committee, thinks the promo­tions will stand but argues that changes in testing are needed to give minorities a better chance for promotion. 
"I favor exams, but there's always been good police offi­cers who can't take tests," Beavers said. "But then there's always been people who can take good tests, but couldn't track a bleeding elephant in the snow." 


FATHER RICHARD McBRIEN 
PROFESSOR OF THEOLOGY 
SPEAKS ON 


''STRENGTHS AND WEAKNESSES OF THE PRESENT PAPACY?'' 
Tonight 
7:00p.m. at St. Edward's Hall 
page 3 

scholarship 
Theresa Radostits, a Saint Mary's College junior and Hu­manistic Studies major. is the 1994-95 recipient of the Sister Maria Pleta Scott Scholarship. She is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Raymond Radostits of Chicago; 
Radostits has been involved in the college leadership devel­opment committee for three years, served on the planning committee for "Play of the Mind Conference," and assisted in the "Celebrating a Leadership Community" pro­gram. She is also &sponsor for RCIA (Rite for Christian Ini~.iation for Adults) • actively 
,,. ·~~;~?)~· 

Gingrich hopes to air speech in prime-time 
By DAVID ESPO 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

In an extraordinary request, House Speaker Newt Gingrich has asked the television net­works to consider airing a 30­minute prime-time speech to the nation next week that would mark the completion of the 100-day Republican "Contract With America." 
Spokesman Tony Blankley said Gingrich, the first GOP speaker in four decades, wants to speak from the Capitol and address not only the passage of the conservative Republican campaign manifesto but also "where we go from here." 
Officials at ABC, NBC and CBS said they had not yet heard of Gingrich's request. A CNN spokeswoman had no immediate comment. 
Live coverage of such a politi­cally tinged speech would be highly unusual and raise ques­tions of the Democrats' right of response. 
"I think it's a rather odd request for any network to grant -the airing, without in­terruption, the views of one party leader without giving equal access and equal time to the other," said Laura Nichols, spokeswoman for House Demo­cratic Leader Richard Gephardt of Missouri, 
Customarily, requests for 
AFTER GRADUATION, WHERE 
IN THE WORLD WILL YOU BE? 
Your first job after graduation should offer you more than just a paycheck In science, education, natural resources, health and business, Peace Corps Volunteers are put­ting their degrees to work where they are needed most while gaining the experience of a lifetime. 
To find out how you can be working in one of over 90 countries in Latin America, Cen­tral/Eastern Europe, Africa, the Caribbean, Asia or the Pacific contact the Chicago Area Peace Corps Office at the number below. 
For more information call 1-800-424-8580 (option 1). 


involved with the campus Christian Service Center, and is a resident advisor for the col­lege. In addition, Radostits vol­unteered with the Appalachia project. 
The Sister Marla Pieta Scott Scholarship Trust, named in honor of a professor emerita of theology at Saint Mary's, was established for the college by Margaret Habig of Evanston, Ill., a 1952 Saint Mary's grad­uate. 
The trust provides at least $1,000 each year to a Saint Mary's student selected on the basis of financial need and per­sonal and academic merit. The award is renewable for each of a student's fours years at Saint Mary's. 
prime-time coverage are grant­ed to a president, although some networks occasionally deny it even to the chief execu­tive. 
Gingrich has been the driving force behind the "Contract With America" legislation that includes a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution, welfare overhaul and changes in the nation's civil justice sys­tem. 
Republicans expect to push their final measure -tax cuts with offsetting spending cuts ­through the House next week, wrapping up the Contract one week ahead of their self­imposed deadline. 
They are planning a ceremo­ny on the Capitol steps for Friday, April 7, to echo the moment last fall when several hundred Republican candidates initialed the original "Contract." 
Gingrich's speech would be in addition, said Blankley, and tout not only passage or the Contract, but also look ahead to the next several months. when Republicans will force a vote on spending cuts needed to bal­ance the budget over a seven­year period. 
The decision to solicit net­work time came as Gingrich was presenting a broad, post­tOO days agenda to redesign Medicare and slash spending and taxes. 



---------------------~ --~-·------~ ­
page4 


Adopt 
continued from page 1 
"Students often develop very 
close relationships with their 
nuns and the nuns are able to 
give the students a lot of 
insight because they've lived so 
long, " Hutchison said. 
Pohlman says that "the visits 
benefit the nuns greatly. They 
love visitors. And they love to 
talk about their lives. They 
really give students a sense of 
history." 
Several of the nuns involved 
ii1 the program are well over 
eighty years old. But that does 
not stop them from actively 
participating in the events that 
are planned for them. These 
events include bingo games 
and dinner parties that stu­
dents plan and participate in. 
Student planned activities oc­
cur once a month and students 
are encouraged to visit their ·adopted nuns once a week. 
"Though my schedule is hec­
tic, I always make time to visit 
my adopted nun. The visit al­
ways gives me a whole new 
outlook on the week," said 
Cara Calcagno, a member of 
the club. 
"The nun I had adopted died 
recently, and it was really de­
pressing. The entire commu­
nity of sisters attended the fu­
neral, and it impressed me that 
all the sisters cared enough to 
attend. After she was gone, I 
r~alized that she really had a 
profound influence on my life 
that I had never appreciated 
before," said Leigh-Anne 
Hutchison. 
About fifty students are in­
volved in the program. Some­
times one nun may become in­
volved with several students, or 
a student may become attached 
to more than one of the retired 
sisters. 
Kynch says, "the companion­
ship that the program provides 
benefits the students as well. 
My nun reminds me that 
although I have a very busy 
schedule, there are a lot of 
simple pleasures that I should 
not take for granted." 
This program is currently running strongly and it is not limited to the Saint Mary's community; several Notre Dame students also participate in it regularly. 
Call-271-0104 

as-ter 
DJ Serflce 
$50.00 Off 

4 Hour Event ~ 
Not Previously Sche4ule4 









The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following positions: 
Viewpoint Copy Editors Assistant Viewpoint Editors 
Please submit a one-page statement of intent and experience to Michael O'Hara in 314 LaFortune by 3 p.m. on Friday, March 31. Any questions call631-4541. 



Theology 
continued from page 1 
The respondent to Professor McBrien at the forum was Pro­fessor of Psychology Naomi Meara. Professor Meara in her response expressed hope for a continual dialogue between the­ology and other disciplines within the academy. 
"Professor McBrien's paper provides common ground for academic discussion," she said, "and offers an invitation for meaningful conversations." 
Meara went on to emphasize the importance of this dialogue in the Notre Dame setting. 
"If Notre Dame is to main­tain both its Catholic identity and its academic integrity, it must be focused on its intellec­tual life and place the Catholic character at its very center." 
At the forum's close, a ques­tion was raised by an audience member concerning the practi­cal application of theology to the concerns facing Notre Dame today-specifically, to provide guidance in the current debates over human sexuality which have infected the campus. 
Professor McBrien responded positively to the idea. As he stated, "That's one of the ways that the theology department can serve the general Notre Dame community-the gay and lesbian debate would be an ex­cellent agenda item for a forum or other discussion. In that way theology can offer service to the University as a whole." 

If you see news happening, call The Observer 

The Observer • NEWS 


Science 
continued from page 1 

specifically to exploration: navigation and cartography. 
Navigation became increas­ingly important for trade and exploration; as a result, cap­tains needed better navigation­al technology, which included better and more detailed maps. Not only did aristocrats and public officials patronize the inventions for personal bene­fits, but governing magistrates too supported them because they benefited through the cus­toms of trade. With a better trade system, the magistrates benefited more. 
And it is this support and funding for mathematically in­volved innovations which sparked the Scientific Revolu­tion. As Wesfall stated, "Europe explored other parts of the world, not other parts of the world explored Europe; no other culture patronized math­ematics for maps." Without the funding of the necessary tools, expansion would not have happened. 
Wesfall ended with two gen­eralizations of the Scientific Revolution: the seventeenth century had been the most cre­ative period in the history of mathematics and mathematics became a growing career to be pursued because it is vital to the lives of states and commu­nities. 

The Observer/Staff Photographer 
Jammin' on the One 
K.im ~mith and Judy Hutchinson play guitar during "Judy's Jams" last mght 1n LaFortune. 
115 O'Shaughnessy 120 O'Shaughnessy 
115 O'Shaughnessy 120 O'Shaughnessy Wednesday, March 29, 1995 The Observer •INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 5 


Canada aggressive over fish Clinton's Asian tour 
By JEFFREY ULBRICH around, seize their ships and Canada temporarily seized Associated Press sell them. If that fails, warn the Estai and arrested its crew 


focuses on children 
those blowhards off their ships earlier this month, touching off TORONTO and then blow them up." the fight with Spain and the By NANCY BENAC a transitional facility in Wash­
It's not at all like Canada, this The Ottawa Citizen was European Union. Associated Press ington for children awaiting fish war with Europe. Seizing calmer, but equally firm. "We're convinced that if we adoption, aides said. ships. Cutting nets. Hurling "Admittedly, Canada's policy don't stop this (fishing) activity, NEW DELHI, India "It's important to realize that sharp words at allies. is an ugly one -unilateral, not only will turbot be It was more than a social with a lot of love and good or­
But the fate of an ugly flatfish unfriendly and of questionable destroyed but the other stocks nicety when Hillary Rodham ganization and planning, you called the turbot has pushed legality," the paper said. "But will not be able to rebuild," To­Clinton placed her palms to­can take care of a lot of chil­mild-mannered Canadians to the fishery needs a policeman, bin told reporters on the barge. gether and dipped her head dren well," Clinton said. "But uncharacteristic aggressiveness. and until the international com­Tobin held up a frozen fillet Tuesday to greet a class of it's never going to be a substi­
Canada claims it wants to munity is willing to take the of fish he said was an immature slum chil­
tute for a permanent family." save the last viable fish stocks job, (Fisheries Minister Brian) turbot that was part of the dren assem­The only other public event on the Grand Banks, off Tobin is the best we've got." Estai's catch. bled in very on Clinton's schedule Tuesday Newfoundland. The Europeans Tobin on Tuesday used the p r o p e r was a visit to the Prayas school counter that Ottawa is less in­sunny New York skyline as a Canada staged its show-and­school uni­project in the shadow of South terested in international con­backdrop to launch Canada's tell across the river from the form. Delhi's slums. servation than in pursuing its latest salvo in the transAtlantic United Nations, where govern­Started by a faculty wife at own economic interests. fight over turbot fishing. ments this week began a new At each the Indian Institute of Tech­
Somewhere in the middle is Using an East River barge as round of talks on rules for high­stop on nology who decided to teach something called international stage, Canada displayed a net seas fishing. C I i n t o n · s Clinton five slum children to read, the law. and frozen fish samples it says Fishing fleets turned to turbot tour of South program now educates more 
Canadians have yet to take to are proof that Spain is wiping after the northern cod nearly Asia, children have been a than 200 children and trains 
the streets to defend the turbot, out fish stocks off disappeared, at least in part prime focus, and she devoted women in literary, nutrition, but that hasn't prevented the Newfoundland. because of Canadian and much of her first day in India to health and how to earn money press from raising the rhetori­Tobin said the net was from European over fishing. In re­the cause of some of the for their skills. cal temperature. the Spanish vessel Estai and its sponse, Ottawa has ordered a world's neediest. It seemed The children meet in the uni­
"Next time, let's really teach mesh was finer than interna­moratorium on cod fishing. only natural that they were versity's outdoor amphitheater them a lesson," huffed the tional rules allow. As a result, The Grand Banks is the part among the first to whom she and dressing room, where Clin­Toronto Sun after a Spanish the net would trap young fish of the continental shelf that extended the traditional na­ton visited science and English 
ship was seized earlier this before they can spawn and extends east from Newfound­maste Indian greeting. class and watched a yoga month. "If they keep messing regenerate stocks. land. demonstration, joking, "I tried 
Clinton's first public appear­to remember all of the exer­ance in India was a tour of cises ... because I need to work Mother Teresa's orphanage, on my heart and my arms and where the first lady and her my waist." daughter, Chelsea, eagerly picked up two babies in pink Founder Rashmi Mishra told lacy dresses and rocked them the first lady the teaching effort soothingly in their arms. was "sustained and inspired by 
Seniors: Looking for a Job? • Come to Career and Placement Services once a week. ·Pick up the new listing of currentjob vacancies-updated weekly. • Don't miss out on new job vacancies.  
The Thomas J. White Center on Law & Government and The Notre Dame Legal Aid Clinic present: Clinton Bamberger Former Dean of Catholic University ofAmerica School ofLaw The War on the Poor: A Lawyer's Perspective Wednesday, March 29th 4:00p.m. in the Law School Courtroom  

The two went room to room the unstinting love and shared in the crowded children's hopes and dreams" of the home, bending over to stroke women and children who bene­and pat babies crowded into fit from it. orderly rows of metal cribs Clinton called it "a marvelous lined up side by side and two example of how people working deep in places. together can take care of each 
"The good news is that the other." She has placed particu­children are constantly mov­lar emphasis during her trip on ing" into permanent homes, the importance of non-gov­the first lady said. ernmental organizations in 
helping to meet social needs. 

Indeed, a group of 15 young­sters who had planned to sing The first lady also visited for the first lady were gone by Tuesday with prominent the time she arrived, leaving women of Indian society at a nuns from the Missionaries of luncheon hosted by Christine Charity to sing for Clinton Wisner, wife of the U.S. ambas­themselves. sador. 
Mother Teresa, based in Cal­She was the dinner guest of cutta, was unable to greet the Indian President Shankar first lady personally because Dayal Sharma at his official she was in Vietnam. But she residence, Rashtrapati Bhavan, and the first lady have been once the elegant home of the corresponding about setting up viceroy of India. 
O'Laughlin Auditorium Friday, March 31 • 8:00 P.M. Saturday, Aprill • 8:00 P.M. Sunday, April 2, • 2:30 P.M. 
Featuring choreography by Guest Artist Sue Cherry, Faculty and Students Artistic Direction by lndi Dieckgrofe • Performed by SMC Donee Workshop 
TICKETS: $6/ADUI.TS; $4/SENIOR CITIZENS &GROUPS; $3/SMC-ND COMMUNITY; $2/STUDEtm TICKETS ON SALE AT THE SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE BOX OFFICE, LOCATED IN O'LAUGHLIN ~-~~ AUOIIORII.N, OPEN FROM 9 · 5, MON. -FRI. DISCOVER, VISA, MASTERCARD ORDERS AT 219/284-4626 
·----­
~--­


Conversation on the Catholic Character ofNotre Dame 



Ex Corde Ecclesiae Americana: The American Context ofCatholic Higher Education 
Respondent: Professor Gerard Bradley, Law School 
David J. O'Brien is Professor of History and Loyola Professor of Roman Catholic Studies at the College of Holy Cross, Worcester, Massachusetts. A distinguished historian, he is the author of a number of books including, most recently, From the Heart of the American Church: Catholic 
·Higher Education and American Culture (Orbis Books, 1994). 
7:30 p.m. Wednesday, March 29th 
Hesburgh Center for International Studies Auditorium 
Discussion period to follow. 

Wednesday, March 29, 1995 
The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Militants' operations grow in Algeria 
By RACHID KHIARI 
Associated Press 
ALGIEHS, Algeria 
More than 500 Islamic rebels died this past week in Algeria's largest military operation against guerrillas fighting to install Islamic rule, sources said today. 
There was no way to recon­cile widely conflicting reports of casualties from recent fight­ing across Algeria. But the report of hundreds of deaths in mountains west of Algiers sug­gests the scale of the militants' operation has grown. 
The lighting, reported in four regions, also shows how deter­mined President Liamine Zeroual is to crush the mili­tants before elections planned for later this year. 
In Washington, Secretary of Stale Warren Christopher said the violence in Algeria was a matter of great concern to the United States. "We've been urging the government to be firm in the measures it takes, but also to reach out to the moderate members of the opposition who have been will­ing to forswear violence," Christopher told reporters. 
More than 30,000 people have died in the insurgency that began when the military­backed government canceled January 1992 elections the Islamic Salvation Front was expected to win. 
Fighting in the Ouarsenis Mountains centered around Ain Defla, the site of a major Agerian military base. 
Sources in Algiers, speaking on condition of anonymity, said 514 militants were killed and that thousands of troops backed by paratroopers, artillery and helicopters were pursuing about 300 other mili­tants. No army casualties were given. 
The military launched the offensive when as many as 1 ,500 militants of the extremist Armed Islamic Group met to organize "shock operations" against towns, sources and Al­gerian newspapers said. 
Muslim fundamentalist sources, also speaking anony­mously, claimed the militants had seized the Ain Defla army base and its munitions. 
THE 


~1)UE PA.Ji,t~0 0~ 
Featuring Beef, Chicken, Seafood and Vegetarian Fondue Entrees 
Make your reservations now for GRADUATION Weekend! 
Upper Level Old Brewery 100 Center Complex, Mishawaka•Phone: 255-1526 Tue.-Thur. 5-9p,m. •Fri.-Sat. 5-l Op.m. 

Crime begins to rise with new police force 
By MICHELLE FAUL 
Associated Press 
POHT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti 

The country's new police force, composed of "recycled" soldiers and hastily trained boat people, is taking heat as crime rises and the United States plans to relinquish com­mand of occupation forces. 
Critics challenge the so-called interim police force's ability to control street violence and allow a fragile democracy to put down roots. Some question whether it even wants to. 
A human rights report sched­uled for release Wednesday charged that the force is made up of those least likely to uphold democracy -the mili­tary that ousted President Jean-Bertrand Aristide in 1991, then butchered as many as 4,000 Aristide supporters over three years. 
The U.S.-led force that restored Aristide to power last year has failed "to establish and maintain a secure and sta­ble environment," said the re­port by Human Rights Watch­Americas and the National Coalition for Haitian Refugees. 
The force entered Haiti on Sept. 19, disbanded and dis­armed the army and paved the way for Aristide's return on Oct. 15. On Friday, with Presi­dent Clinton and U.N. Secre­tary-General Boutros Boutros­Ghali on hand, U.S. forces will turn over command of the in­ternational mission to a U.N. force. 
That force, charged with monitoring legislative elections in June and presidential elec­tions in December, will be led by an American. Of the 6,000 
TI-lE 1995 SENIOR INFORMAL -Friday, April 21st­
~ 

TO BENEFIT THE HOLY CROSS MISSION 

-IN EAST AFRICA ' 
JJdtisen Sa/eat the OlnplsM'n1~i'Y afirein the 
He;Wrgh lilrcuy 

Full Sit Down Dinner Banquet 
Three Great Bands for Dandng .Krautnisa-"".little Milten ""Ge:.rgeandtheFre:k;..,._ _,".1 
At St. Patrick's Parish Center Downtown South Bend 

'$10/person 
Doors open al6:00 ' p.m Dinner promptly at 6:30p.m 




Haitian force questionable 
soldiers and police from at least 18 countries that make up the force, 2,500 are American. 
The human rights report says 
U.S. 
officials erred from the outset when they opted against a civilian-based interim force, "apparently fearing that the recruits would contribute to a force biased in favor of President Aristide." 

"In fact," the report says, "the U.S. government plan reflected an apparent U.S. desire to preserve whatever could be salvaged of the army, an institution with which the 

U.S. 
has had long standing con­tacts and influence, and one seen as a check on President Aristide." 

U.S. 
Embassy spokesman Stan Schrager denied that charge. 


"The force has nothing to do with salvaging the old army," he said Tuesday. "Our only concern is that this (new) armed forces does not threaten the stability of the new democ­racy." 
The interim Haitian police force is in charge of crime con­trol until at least March 1996, while a new U.S. and Canadian­run police academy trains a permanent police force of 6,000 to 7,000 officers. The first 375 cadets graduate in June. 
The rights groups said the record of the interim police, which has been operating un­der U.N. guidance, is already troubling. Violent crimes have increased since they began op­erating, and 21 interim police­men have been arrested for crimes such as corruption, ex­tortion, assault and murder, the report said. 
In the central Haitian town of Savanette, the chief of the interim police is accused of murder, and residents say one of his three deputies beat them when the military was in power. Residents delivered their complaints to U.S. Special Forces, who handed them over, complete with the names of the accusers, to the Savanette po­lice charged with the abuses. 
The report blamed the Haitian and U.S. governments for a feeble vetting procedure that failed to purge the army of human rights violators. 
Initial screening was done by five Haitian army officers, and a second screening, by the U.S. Defense Intelligence Agency. 
Former official assassinated in Port-au-Prince 
By MICHAEL NORTON 
Associated Press 
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti 

A former top official of Haiti's 1991 military coup gov­ernment was machine-gunned to death Tuesday on a busy street in downtown Port-au­Prince. 
A companion riding with Mireille Durocher Bertin, a prominent lawyer, also was killed when gunmen in a taxi opened fire on her car on Pou­plard Avenue, said a Canadian police officer at the scene. The attackers escaped. 
Bertin was chief of staff in the military-installed government formed by President Emile Jonassaint after the army over­threw President Jean-Bertrand Aristide. She also advised army leader Lt. Gen. Raoul Cedras and capital police chief Michel Francois. 
A U.S.-led multinational force restored Aristide to power last October. 
Last week, Bertin announced the formation of a new opposi­tion party called the Movement to Integrate the Nation. 
Bertin, who was 35 and had four children, made many ene­mies after Aristide's ouster by offering legal arguments to jus­tify the coup leaders' cause. 
In April 1994, she criticized the United States for con­templating invading Haiti to oust the ruling coup leaders, saying U.S. policy had failed worldwide because of American ignorance "of the realities of the countries involved." 
"The courage of Haiti has been assassinated," said busi­nessman Carl Dennis, who par­ticipated with Bertin in a National Anti-Occupation Coali­tion las year. 
"There is only one person who must take responsibility for her death, and I am speak­ing of Bill Clinton. He is to blame for all the Haitians killed, assassinated since Sept. 19." 
Bertin's passenger was iden­tified as Junior Baillerjeaux, a client of Bertin's husband, Jean. 
1994-95 MAINSTAOE SEASON 
NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE PRESENTS
OUR 


COUNTRY'S 
lJMBERLAKE WERTENBAKER

GOOD BY 

DIRECTED BY REGINALD BAIN 

w A s H N G T 0 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 5 ...... 8 P.M. THURSDAY, APRIL 6 ....... 8 P.M. FRIDAY, APRIL 7 ............ 8 P.M. SATURDAY, APRIL 8 ........ 8 P.M. SUNDAY, APRIL 9 ..... 2:30P.M. 
RESERVED SEATS $7 
STUDENT AND SENIOR CmZEN DISCOUNTS 
ARE AVAILABLE WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY 
AND SUNDAY. liCKElS ARE AVAILABLE 
AT THE DOOR OR IN ADVANCE AT THE 
LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER liCKET 
OFFICE. 
MASTERCARD AND ~SA ORDERS CALL 631-6126. 
N H A L L 
VIEWERS MAY FINO SOME OF THE LANGUAGE IN THIS PLAY OFFENSIVE. 
Sect suspected of preparing for germ warfare 
Police find deadly bacteria 
in compound 
By MARl YAMAGUCHI Associated Press 
TOKYO 
Police were reported Tuesday to have found lethal bacteria at a doomsday religious group's compound, suggesting the sect, suspected in a nerve gas attack on Tokyo's subway, was prepar­ing for germ warfare. 
Even before the subway attack, a book published by the group dwelled on the themes of poisons, germ warfare and the subways. 
Known as Aum Shinri Kyo, or Supreme Truth. the sect is sus­pected in the March 20 attack which killed 10 people and sick­ened about 5,000. The group has denied involvement, and no arrests have been made. 
Police raiding Supreme Truth's properties have found large quantities of chemicals, some of which reportedly can be used to produce the deadly sarin gas used in the subway attacks. 
On Tuesday, news reports said police also found quantities of lethal bacteria in one of the group's compounds, suggesting the group might have been try­ing to prepare for germ warfare. 
Police would not comment on a report in the newspaper Mainichi that the group was preparing for germ warfare but said they found a large amount of peptone, a kind of protein used to grow bacteria cultures. 
The newspaper said authori­ties seized quantities of Clostridium botulinum, a kind of bacteria that produce botulism poisoning. 
Some medical companies store 
the bacteria for research and 
development. The group owns 
medical facilities that include a 
Tokyo hospital. 
Elements of a subway attack 
figured in a book by the group 
called "Catastrophe Approaches 
the Nation of Rising Sun," 
released less than three weeks 
before the gassing. But in it, 
Supreme Truth is portrayed as a 
victim, not an attacker. 
One chapter involves a discus­
sion among the sect's leader, 
Shoko Asahara, and associates, 
all of whom are said to have 
university degrees in medicine, 
biochemistry and architecture. 
"Today, we have no other 
choice but fight to live. For 
instance, if we get poison gas 
sprayed on us, we have to pre­
pare cleaners to remove the 
gas," Asahara tells his follow­ers. 
His group claims it has come under chemical attack from the 
U.S. military and others. The military denies the accusations. 
Other officials quoted in the book discuss strategies for chemical weapons use. 
"Chemical weapons tend to discharge very poisonous fumes the moment they are mixed," says one member, identified as a chemist. "Some chemical weapons, however, can be kept one stage prior to the final prod­uct until the moment it will be used." 
Police believe the Tokyo sub­way assailants might have acti­vated the nerve gas by breaking glass containers and fleeing as 
the  ingredients  mixed  and  
vaporized.  
Reports  have  said  one  

assailant was hospitalized after having been overcome by fumes and that police hoped to ques­tion him soon. 
The roundtable discussion quotes another Asahara aide, identified as a bacteria and genetic specialist, as discussing bacterial weapons. 
The Tokyo subway also comes up for discussion -but as a shelter in case of biological, chemical and nuclear warfare, not as a target for attack. 
In Russia, meanwhile, a court suspended the activities of the Supreme Truth's Moscow branch and authorized officials to seize its property and bank accounts. 
Judge Irina Vorobyova said the court would ask the Justice Ministry to expand the order to all branches of the group in Russia. 
One reason behind the ruling was sect leader Asahara's reported appeal to his followers to commit suicide, the judge 
Botulism is caused when the human body is infected by botulin, a toxin naturally secreted by the Clostridium botulinum bacteria. 

Under laboratory conditions, the Clostridium botulinum bacteria can be farmed and the deadly toxin harvested. 
. ··=·=.~==== =. .=·=·~~w ~: ..­

•·· Symptoms of botulism 
Toxin passes to 
the nervous 
system 
Respiratory difficulty 
Muscular weakness 

Constipation (may be preceded by diarrhea) 
Source: The Ciba Collection. Univ. of Texas 

Paralysis of the 
eyes, double 
vision and 

drooping of the 
eyelids 

The toxin is absorbed from the digestive tract about 24 hours after the ingestion of the organism or spores. In approximately 65 percent of the cases, death occurs within aweek. 
APfWm. J. Castello 

Cult leader sold own used bath water 
Associated Press 
TOKYO 

Members of the apocalyptic cult suspected in the Tokyo subway attack could rent a headset for $10,000 a month that would supposedly syn­chronize their brain waves with those of their leader. 
Or they could drink Shoko Asahara's blood for $10.00. 
New details emerged in press reports Tuesday about how the Aum Shinri Kyo cult demanded cash from members to pay for bizarre items and services . 
The group is the prime sus­pect in the March 20 nerve gas attack on Tokyo's subways, which killed 10 people and sickened around 5,000. 
According to the national newspaper Asahi, a "Blood Initiation" -in which mem­bers drink blood said to have come from Asahara -costs $10,000. 
A "Bardo's Enlightenment," involving an intravenous injec­tion of an unknown substance. cost $3,000. 
A small pin with the sect's logo engraved is less ex­pensive at $1,000. 
For $2,000, members could buy a 7-ounce bottle of "Miracle Pond," the leader's used bath water, said to have curative powers. 
said. The group also faces possible criminal and civil charges of 
t 

fraud and depriving young peo­ple of their rights. The daily newspaper Izvestia on Tuesday condemned Oleg 


FACULTY
Lobov, leader of President Boris Yeltsin's Security Council, for having encouraged the sect's activities in Russia. 
UPPER ROOM 
In 1992, Lobov met with Asahara in Japan and invited 
SERIES

him to Russia. Lobov also won Yeltsin's authorization to set up a"Russian-Japanese University" in a Moscow mansion that 
"FAITH AND PROFESSIONAL LIFE" 
served as the group's Moscow headquarters. the newspaper said. 
An opportunity to reflect with colleagues and spouses/guests on the 
"After that, all doors in Russia 

integration of spiritual 
were flung wide open to Aum Shinri Kyo," Izvestia reported. 

concerns and professional challenges and demands. 
"It's quite possible the sect lead­ers the Japanese police are searching for are now hiding 


WEDNESDAY
somewhere in Russia." 

5 APRIL 1995 

Faculty Dining Room of the South Dining Hall Dinner at 7:00p.m.-Discussion until9:00 p.m.






DEATHNET BBS 
The DeathNet BBS provides the challenge and excitement of 
Speaker 

hunting and being hunted, killing and being killed all via the 

Dennis Jacobs 

on-line computer network featuring the popular games of 
Assistant Professor of Chemistry and Biochemistry "Faith, Family & the Academic Life Style" 
DOOM and DOOM II. 
Reservations: Return the form received in the mail or
Free access time March 23 through March 29. 
• Up to 4 friends and/or enemies in one match/game 

simply call Sharon Harwell at 1-8607 by
• Tournaments to see who is best (TOP DOG GETS FREE ACCESS TIME) 

Friday, March 31.

• Library of the latest shareware games & patches 
Hardware requirements: 
• at least 486-33sx, 9600 baud modem 
A donation of$5.00 at the door or by check made out to Campus Ministry 
-4 meg ram(8meg recommended) -Users need to download APCIDOOM software and the patches to get your copy of DOOM or DOOM II to version 1.9. 
PHONE NUMBERS: 
SOUTH BEND/ MISHAWAKA 299-2803 ELKHART 679-0090 
............... 

---­

can help defray the expenses of the dinner. 
Co-Sponsored by: Campus Ministry and the Center for Social Concerns 



~--~---~~·--------~ 




VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, March 29, 1995 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucas Managing Editor Bwincss Manager Suzanne Fry Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advcnising Manager ........................... John Ponct Viewpoint Editor .................. Michad O'Hara Ad Design Manager ....................... Ryan Malayrcr Sporu Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Aa:ent Editor ......................... Krista Nanncry Systems Manager ............................ Scan Gallavan Photo Editor .................................. Rob Finch Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Saint Mary's Editor .................... Pani Carson ControUer ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily teflect the policies of the administra­ti-on of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Ediwr, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of rhe authors, and nor necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Emotion oflove has an independent will 
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor /Viewpoint Sports News/Photo Accent/Saint Mary's Day Editor/Production General information 
• DESIDERATA 
"Especially do not feign affection." ­Max Ehrmann 
I consider this excerpt from Desiderata, my column's namesake, to be one of the most meaningful portions of the work as applied to me personally. Of course, the piece in its entirety is very dear to my heart, but this bit of advice iS", in my opinion, one of its more com­pelling lines. 
Recently, it has taken on yet more sig­nificance to me, in light of the debate that rages on concerning GLND/SMC. As frequent readers probably know, I have several friends whom this debate touch-
Kirsten Dunne 

es very personally, so I keep up with the opinions expressed on both sides. 
It seems that some of the opponents of the group propose that the group's members "feign affection." That is, some people believe that gays and les­bians should enter into heterosexual relationships, despite their true orienta­tions. I don't see how this could be con­strued as a positive solution for any of the parties involved. 
For one, I firmly reject any contention that we can choose those with whom we fall in love. I say this not only because it would be completely irrational and self­destructive to "choose" to love someone when a relationship with the person might invite others' resentment. 
I say it because I have tried. I am not homosexual, but I have cared deeply for people when such emotions were not in my best interests. I have tried to forget my feelings, or to date other people, or to concentrate on other aspects of my life. None of these attempts has worked. I do not say that it is not possible for 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• 000NESBURY 

Observer Phone Lines 

631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.l@nd.edu 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
such feelings to fade, but if and when they do so, it takes place in an inexplica­ble way. 
It is almost as if the emotion of love has a will of its own. Whatever the case, it is not my choice. If we had a choice as to whom we loved, we would logically love only those who our family and friends would readily accept and those who would love us back unconditionally. And it is clear to me that this is not an accurate portrayal of reality. 
Of course, not everyone who proposes that gays and lesbians feign their affec­tions seems to think they have a choice. They simply leave this element out of their discussions, and seem to reason that, eventually, the person will get used to the relationship and be happy. 
This proposal is perhaps even more destructive. For, assuming that we do not have a choice as to who we love, this will usually amount to living a lie. It will deny everyone involved of a completely fulfilling relationship and, further, should the couple have children, it will deprive them of a stable family in which to grow up. 
Again, this is a notion to which straight people should be able to relate. Sometimes you fall in love with an indi­vidual who is almost surely not within your reach. The person may be married or "attached." Alternatively, he might be different from us in a way which would strain our family relationships to a degree we find unacceptable -e.g., he may be of a different age group, race, or religion. Maybe he is of a different sex­ual orientation In short, it is possible to fall in love with someone when it will be difficult or even impossible to enter into a relationship with that person. 
Some people in this quandary will sim­ply date other people. Depending on the strength of your feelings, this is not necessarily a bad idea. For, if you can find a sincere relationship that is more conducive to your happiness. all the bet­ter for you. But, if your emotions for the as-yet unattainable one are strong, it is probably not the thing to do., In fact, as with the gay person who enters into a straight relationship, it may very well end up multiplying your problems. 
One issue, of course, is yourself. If your love is so strong that no one will replace the object of your true affec­tions, you will merely end up disap­pointed should you attempt such a replacement. It is one matter if you meet someone and genuinely feel strongly for him. It is quite another if, as in the situation I envision, you date others only to flee from your feelings. 
Love in Max Ehrmann's words is "as perennial as the grass;" it is too stub­born to let you get away that easily. And if you try, you will end up feeling defeated and deprived. None of us deserves to feel that way. 
For some of us, the alternative of unrequited love might not be much more attractive. But for others, there might be a loving relationship waiting for them if they remain true to their emotions. And if you have the chance for happiness, for Heaven's sake, you should take it. 
Of course, even for those of us who cannot reach the object of our love, there are reasons to refrain from substi­tution. Most notably, there is the person to whom you go for shelter from your feelings. 
While it might be convenient and workable to find a surrogate, the fact remains that he is just. that: a surrogate. There is the chance that your emotions will change of their own devices, and, if that happens, great! But, if the other person truly loves you, that is too great a chance to take. I for one cannot take that risk with the dignity and self-worth of another human being. 
This is why, despite the "constructive criticism" of well-meaning friends, I always end up remaining true to my heart. Should your original affections remain intact, the truth will inevitably reveal itself, and, when it does, the per­son who has been a mere stand-in will feel cheated, used, and deeply hurt. I like to think that most of us seek to avoid such a result, even if that means that we are not part of a couple. 

The reflections I have been discussing have come about as a consequence of the recent flurry of activity surrounding GLND/SMC. However, as I have hope to have shown, they can apply to any situa­tion in which two people who love each other are kept apart or their relation­ship strained by the disapproval of oth­ers. 
Some of us are unable to be with the ones we love because our emotions are unrequited. Therefore, when two peo­ple share mutual devotion to one anoth­er, we might envy them. But we should notjudge their love based on their sexu­al orientation, race, or any other factor. We should instead be happy for them for having found the love that each and every one of us deserves. 
Kirsten Dunne is a third-year Law stu­dent. 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"We do not expect reporters to be politi­cal eunuchs .." 
-Dorothy Ridings 





ACCENT

page 10 Wednesday, March 29, 1995 
Baseball's Glory Days 
By BRYCE SEKI 
Accent Literary Critic 

Disturbing Faces ofthe Holocaust 
r imagination with the magic that is baseball. 
I In his newest collection of stories, Kinsella brings back late greats such as Roberto Clemente and Christy Mathew­son. In "Searching for January" Clemente washes up fifteen years after his death in a New Year's Day plane crash. The
t 

disillusioned and unaged outfielder thinks only a few days have passed since his plane went down. When told that it is 1987, the former Pirate slugger asks about the condition of his old club,· some of his teammates, and the state of his beloved game. 
After hearing about the game's dilemmas, Clemente con­siders a return to baseball, to spice it up again with his in­credible hitting and razzle-dazzle style of play. Then reality strikes the Puerto Rican superstar. What if, when thrown back into the real world, he becomes the 53 year aged man he should be now and gets lost in the crazy eighties? 

W
ith baseball in its sorry state, with the disputes over the millions the players are making and less­talented replacement players trying to mimic our favorite stars, W.P. Kinsella's new book, "The Dixon 
Cornbelt League," is a sight for very sore eyes. 
Using America's National Pastime as his vessel, Kinsella takes us on a mystical journey of short stories bringing back some of our lost heroes and touching us with fictional sto­ries of those who love the game. 
Kinsella is the same writer who brought to page "Box So­

cials," "The Iowa Baseball Confederacy," and his most r fanious work, "Shoeless Joe," which was made into the clas­r sic baseball film "Field of Dreams." He has been called the r Mark Twain of sports writing, telling stories that fill the 
Clemente hops aboard the makeshift raft on which he came ashore saying, "I've searched a few days and have already found 1987. Time has tricked me in some way. Perhaps ifl continue searching for January 1973, I'll find it." With those thoughts, the Hall-of-Fame slugger sails back out to sea, the ocean and sky slowly engulfing him. 
Christy Mathewson's return is more similar to Shoeless Joe Jackson's appearance in "Field of Dreams." The pitcher returns 75 years after his death to teach a mediocre manag­er, Tag Murtaugh, his trademark "fadeaway" pitch which Mathewson used to baffie opposing hitters. Ed Jerusalem, "an over-the-hill nobody who actually never was," will learn the pitch to enhance his performance on the pitcher's mound. Murtaugh is seen talking to Mathewson's appari­tion and after announcing that Jerusalem will be his star re­liever, the owners fire the manager and the dream of the Ed Jerusalem screwball fades away with him. 
The most far-fetched of Kinsella's stories is "Lumpy Drobot, Designated Hitter." John "Lumpy" Drobot gets his nickname from his manager who saw his 5-foot, 7 -inch, 190-pound frame and told him, "Listen, you lumpy son of a bitch, you better be one hell of a designated hitter, 'cause 

By KATIE BAGLEY 
Accent Literary Critic 
"I have before me a photo­graph, taken by a German offi­cer fond of souvenirs. of a fa­ther, who. an instant before the burst of rifle fire, was still speaking calmly to his son, while pointing to the sky ... "You see, my son. we are going to die and the sky is beautiful... We are going to die, my son. yet the sky. so serene, is not col­lapsing...Do you hear its si­lence? Listen to it. you must not forget it. 
Elie Wiesel 

L
awrence Langer's anthology, Art From the Ashes, is the kind of book that will never make the bestseller list, but should. It is far too disturbing and unset­tling to be very popular. The stories, poems, essays, and dra­mas which Langer assembles challenge our commonly held ideas about the Holocaust. We see real people searching for meaning in the midst of unspeakable atrocities, yet they fail to find any. The common thread in all of their experi­ences, from hiding in apart­ments, living in the ghetto to being liberated is an inability to make sense of the horror. 
Art 

from the 
Langer warns us in the intro­duction that Holocaust art is one that is "rich in its demands on our most sacred beliefs." Such art presents hard ques­tions with no easy or satisfying answers. "Whatever 'beauty' Holocaust art achieves is soiled by the misery of its theme." This is not to suggest that read­ing this book is not a valuable or necessary experience. It is merely an experience which we should enter into forewarned. These are not pretty stories. 
Langer has done an excellent job of bringing together a good variety of people and genres, from the essays of Elie Wiesel to the journal of Abraham Lewin, an inhabitant of the Warsaw ghetto who was killed during the uprising. He even includes documents which seek to understand the perspective of the guards. Christopher Browning's search for the sol­dier's motivation in "One Day in Jozefow" turns out to be a fail­ure. We may never understand why the Germans did what they did. Fear, obedience to author­ity, indifference to the Jews­none of these seem a sufficient explanation. 

One of the recurring themes in the collection is the guilt of the survivors. Primo Levi writes in "Shame" that libera­tion was a mixed blessing. Having lived like animals for years, many survivors found it unbearable to return to con­sciousness. Prisoners did things to survive which they were too ashamed to look back on. Suicide rates were ex­tremely high, as the survivors found that they had no place in a normal world. 
This same sentiment is expressed by Charlotte Delbo in her story "Voices:" "She held her dying sister in her arms...and when her sister's heart stopped, she was filled with anger at her own which 

THE 
DIX()N 
C()RNBELT 
LE1\GlJl~ 
and ()ther 13aseball Stories 
Artwork courtesy ot Oxford University Press 
continued to beat. Which beats yet today, after all these years spent on the border of life. And when she says that you don't die from grief, she's apologizing for being alive. Barely alive." 
The fiction that came out of the Holocaust is equally upset­ting. Ida Fink's short story "The Key Game" and Tadeusz Borowski's "This Way For the Gas, Ladies and Gentlemen" are unsettling for the reader. In "The Key Game," Fink tells the story of a family who makes a game out of teaching their little boy how to stall for time if any­one knocks at the door. This way, his parents have time to hide. Here, Fink shows how the pervasiveness of the German threat destroyed the bonds that held people to­gether. 
Borowski, in "This Way for the Gas, Ladies and Gentlemen," has created a stark, bitter, and shocking story. "We are without even our usual diversion; the wide you sure don't look fit for nothin' else." The name Lumpy sticks and John leads the team in being hit by pitches. 
But Drobot hates the nickname. One day he is introduced to A.C.E., the Athletes of Christian Endeavor, and reads pas­sages from the Bible with them. A particular passage, Revelation 2:17, says, "To him who overcomes I will give him a white stone, and in the stone a new name written, which no one knows except him who receives it." The white stone is-what else?-a baseball and in Lumpy's first at bat in the next game he is hit by a pitch. However, instead of a bruise, a lump forms on his arm. With a small incision by a knife, a pristine white baseball falls to the floor with Lumpy's new name emblazoned across it. 
Kinsella's book is pure magic. The imaginative stories of a werewolf shortstop and a baseball league for chokers are only a few of the many stories awaiting the reader in "The Dixon Cornbelt League." Baseball, as American as apple pie, glistens like a new ball in the hands of W.P. Kinsella, who mixes the fun, fantasy, and beauty of the game with a certain insightfulness that makes his newest book an enjoy­able romp around the base paths. For the baseball fanatic or just an average spectator, Kinsella's book is a home run. 
roads leading to the crematoria are empty." The protagonist, a prisoner whose job is sorting the valuables brought in by the victims, searches for some kind of meaning, something to hold on to, but there is nothing to find. 
Dan Pagis' poem, "Autobiography," expresses the interrelatedness of everyone involved in the Holocaust-the Germans, the victims, and those who failed to actively condemn it. "My brother invented mur­der/ my parents invented grief! I invented silence." 
Other poems struggle with the variety of issues and emo­tions that survivors were forced to deal with. The whole book is really a struggle, both to ask questions and to find answers. In the first it succeeds, for the silence is constantly broken by voices which demand to be heard. As for the second, per­haps there are no answers in the ashes. 
Jankiel Wieznik writes, "One can get used to anything." This may be the greatest horror of the entire experience-the re­duction of humans to animals. Art From the Ashes is an at­tempt to restore that humanity by telling the stories, by revers­ing the silence and by forcing us to face the questions that have no answers. 





ACCENT 
The Observer I Courtesy of University of Notre Dame Chorale 

The Notre Dame Chorale gets ready to showcase their powerful voices in pieces by Handel, Bach, and Brandenburg. 
7hepassionfor !he 23arorue 
By MARGEE HUSEMANN 
Associate Viewpoim Ediror 
ttle bit of heaven will reach down to touch 

he earth tonight as the Notre Dame Chorale 
nd Chamber Orchestra performs several baroque works, including Lenten selections from Handel's Messiah, in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
The concert is being directed by Alexander Blachly, Associate Professor of Music, and will feature llandel's Concerto Grosso, six acappella works by Purcell, and one of the Brandenburg concertos, in addition to parts II and III of the Messiah. 
The pieces were chosen because they actively chal­lenge and showcase the skills of the orchestra and the chorale as well as provide a show full of emotion and powerful lyrics. Blachly, who has been directing the Chorale for one and a half years, says, "This music is from a period when composers made an effort to be pictorial and to illustrate the words with vivid imagery." 
' A s always in Bach's music, the per­
~ormers are challenged to the utmost of their ability, but it is the very demonstration of the performers' musi­cal skills that makes a performance of these concertos so much fun for the audience.' 
Alexander Blachly 
Though born in Germany, Handel was raised in England and is therefore considered an English com­poser. His Messiah was composed in 1741 for pre­sentation in Dublin. It was first performed in April, 1742, five months after he arrived in the Irish capital. This work captures the emotions and images most commonly associated with the Lenten season. The sense of imagery is further carried into the other works. 
The selections by Purcell, another English compos­er, are acappella anthem pieces written for specific occasions and are meant to challenge the chorale. "Purcell's works are very striking because they are short but they are very packed with striking events. They exploit a particular type of seventeenth century 

TodayonWVF 
English dissonance and chromaticism which the nine­teenth century found bizarre and illogical but which we today find expressive or charming and always very interesting musically," Blachly explains. 
The Brandenburg concertos by the German compos­er Bach are probably the most famous instrumental works written in the baroque period. Written when Bach was still young, they display the creativity and imagination which run through his life and permeate his work. He creates effects which were, at the time, extremely innovative. In reference to the piece and its performance, Blachly says, "As always in Bach's music, the performers are challenged to the utmost of their ability, but it is the very demonstration of the performers' musical skills that makes a performance of these concertos so much fun for the audience." 
The Chorale and Chamber Orchestra have worked very hard in order to bring the music alive for the audience. The Notre Dame Chorale is composed of more than forty Notre Dame students, both male and female. They have been rehearsing to recreate the passion which the works were originally meant to convey. Blachly notes, "I am impressed by the emo­tional feeling that this choir projects. They sing from the heart and they sing skillfully." 
The equally talented Notre Dame Chamber Orchestra is, according to Blachly, made up of "the most advanced graduate and undergraduates in applied music in the Department of Music. They are a very flattering reflection of the level of instruction that the department provides." 
Professor Calvin Bower of the Notre Dame Department of Music, a specialist in performing in this particular area of music, will be playing continuo in the concert. Together these two will help the audi­ence relive the experience of one of Handel's con­certs. Blachly comments, "Handel was famous in his day for his vivacious and virtuosic performances and his music provides many wonderful opportunities for the performers to create exciting effects for the listen­er. We feel confident that the audience will enjoy itself." 
Who: Notre Dame Chorale and Chamber Orchestra Where: The Basilica of the Sacred Heart When: 8 p.m. tonight Admission: Free Seating: First come, first serve 


11 :30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. · 
Around lunchtime, Emily Anderson exposes lis­teners of WVFI to women in music. Female artists, all girl bands and bands with female lead vocalists are the focus of this program. Tune in 
-for the sounds of Liz Phair, Velocity Girl, and Unrest. 
The Observer will be providing its readers with a 
For your eating enjoyment. C()lette Shaw brlnQS you som~ of the best "cheese" from the seventies and early eighties, From 6:30 to 7;30 Wednesday evenings thelikes ()f the Bee Gees, Sean Cassidy; Elton John andKiki pee occupy the airwaves a:$ a 
reminder ofthe time when disco was king. · 

preview ofsome ofWVFI's programs (l(tc:h day this W¢.(1
. . . . .. . ,. ·, :.;~( 
'.. :~(\i~:~:;;; ;:i.=~i···:·~~~~~~l\!~)!1:~i:~i~:%~!>. 
page 11 

• TOFU, TOFU, TOFU 

Diary of a nervous breakdown 
You, my friend, are suffering from academic burnout. I'm surprised you didn't notice it earlier. The physical signs are all there. The circles under the eyes, the raspy voice, the natty hair, the shuffiing walk. You've become a member of the walking------­
dead. There's a certain charm in being a member of that particular club, isn't there? 
Try to deny it, you can't. We first guessed there was something wrong when you started wearing your walk­man 24-7. You would only listen to one tape, Carreras, Domingo, Pavarotti in Concert with Zubin Krista Nannery Mehta. By the end of "Day 2, The Accent Ediror Nervous Breakdown Continues," you------­were singing in Italian and humming in German, all quiet-like, but we heard you. Oh boy, did we hear you. You stopped talking all together when we asked you not to sing. You said it was a-conspiracy. You told us we obviously knew nothing-about music. You called us peasants. We said nothing and let you sing. 
By Day 3, you were answering your phone with "What?" and changing your voice-mail message on an hourly basis. By midnight, your message went some­thing like, "I hope you don't expect me to call you back." Yeah, you were getting friendlier by the minute. 
We tried being nice to you. We tried to commiserate with your workload. We brought you cookies and Diet Coke and even taped Days of Our Lives for you. You didn't want us around. You started grunting whenever anyone spoke to you. The few sentences you did mum­ble between drags of generic cigarettes were monotone and monosyllabic. If you were quiet before, you were mute now. 
The fact that you were chain-smoking like crazy real­ly cued us in that professional help could be a viable option at this point. See, you don't smoke. You never did. In fact, you swore you never would and coughed conspicuously whenever anyone lit up in your presence. But now, you were smoking like a fiend, blowing little smoke rings and everything. 
By Day 4, you had forgotten our names and had taken to calling all men, regardless of age, "boy." You had become one with your backpack, never letting it leave your sight. We could have sworn that had anyone tried to touch it, you would have bit them. A couple of nights ago, you left your backpack in the library bathroom. The next morning, you accused us of stealing it. We shoved a cookie in your mouth and left the room before your incisors could meet flesh. 
The slap-happy stage was the worst. We noticed that you skipped Sunday brunch in favor of two six-packs of Mountain Dew, a pound of Twizzlers, and some raw brownie mix. When we came back from brunch, you had rearranged the bunk-beds and alphabetized all our text-books. The "Grease" soundtrack was in full effect. At 2 p.m., you were still in your pajamas and getting ready to clean the tile grout with your toothbrush. We stopped you. 
It was then that you spoke. You were changing your major. Forget Government. Forget Spanish. You, in your junior year, were on your way to becoming the first Computer Engineering Major with a minor in Medieval Studies on the entire campus. We were happy for you, if confused. In the meantime, you had yet to start a twenty page paper due on Monday for one of your Government classes. Not to worry though. After you finished painting your toenails and updating the last six months of your life for your diary, you were going to start it. You figured that if you started right after dinner and class wasn't until 9:05 tomorrow, you had fourteen hours. That, you informed us, was 1.4 pages an hour. No problem. 
By midnight, we had to leave the room. You had begun to read each sentence you wrote out loud. Numerous times. You also had us waiting on you hand and foot, definitely not our style. "Don't worry," you declared. "After this paper, I'm all done. Nothing 'till finals!" At 4 a.m., we found you passed out on top of page 14, snoring loud enough to wake the dead. 
Yes. my friend, you are suffering from academic burnout. Because we love you as much as we do, we're not going to wake you up like you asked. You need sleep, kiddo. You're coming up on Day 7, you know. That's seven days of irregular sleeping patterns and one heck of an odd diet. And honestly, we don't think we can handle it much longer. 
Before you know it though, we'll be where you are now. hating life. So we have just one small favor to ask. Do you think you could leave Pavarotti out of it? 
Krista Nannery, The Observer's Accent Editor, will be writing a weekly column starting really soon. 
.. 
. ... 

• COLLEGE BASKETBAll 

Bruins' Bailey steps forward 
By BETH HARRIS 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 
Toby Bailey hasn't always been the happy-go-lucky, slam­dunking freshman people saw against Connecticut in the NCAA West Regional champi­onship game. 
Three months ago, he was pouting in a corner of the lock­erroom while his UCLA team­mates celebrated an 82-81 vic­tory over Kentucky in the sec­ond game of the season. 
Bailey had hardly played, while freshman J.R. Henderson sank two free throws with six­tenths of a second remaining to win the game. 
Ed O'Bannon noticed Bailey off by himself, and decided he needed a sharp reminder about supporting the team instead of being out for yourself. 

"Ed just jumped right on him -'Get up here and enjoy this with your teammates,' and that was before I even got in the lockerroom," coach Jim Harrick recalled. 
Bailey didn't learn his lesson right away. Henderson started the first 13 games, and Bailey's unhappiness at being on the bench was evident by his long face. 
Eventually, he replaced Henderson as a starter and is averaging 9.8 points and 4. 7 rebounds. Henderson has wit­nessed Bailey's maturation close-up as his roommate on the road. 
"Earlier in the year, every time he missed a shot he was twirling around," Henderson said. "Now, if he misses a shot, he's setting up to take another one. He's cooling out. I think it's part of getting all that fresh­man stuff out of you." 
Bailey's personality is like his game -all slam dunks and fast breaks. He's outgoing and bois­terous, and bares his emotions to the world. He thrives on the media attention, spinning sto­ries about famous friends, like movie director Robert Townsend. 
As a naturally quiet person, Henderson dreads the intense media scrutiny awaiting him this weekend when the Final Four assembles at Seattle. 
"I don't really like talking a lot. If I don't know someone, I won't say anything to them unless they say something to me," he said. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds inust be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

Call Brian 234·4322  volleyball, swimmming, track, bas­ HOMES FOR RENT  GOING TO THE BILLY JOEL  
NOTICES  Found over 40 ladies undergar­ ketball, soccer, and softball. They must also enjoy working with chil·  NEAR CAMPUS 232-2595  JUNIORS NHL HOCKEY TRIP TO CHICAGO  /ELTON JOHN CONCERT IN INDY THIS FRIDAY?  
ments in room 864 of the Cancun  dren and be seiVice-oriented. The  BLACKHAWKS VS BLUES  NEED A RIDE? LEAVING FRI. &  
AlTENTION SOPHOMORES:  Palace. To claim your undergar­ dates of the NYSP 1995 camp are  2 BDRM AVAIL. NOW $295 MO. 3  WED 3129. BUS LEAVES C.C.E AT  RETURNING SAT. AM.  
Are you looking for that seNice pro·  ment, contact Matt or Mike at 1·  July 3 through August 5. There is  BDRM. NEXT FALL, NEAR CAM·  5PM. $20 TICKETS ON SALE AT  CALL JILL AT 4-4976.  
ject that really makes a difference,  407-277-2124  one week of mandatory training  PUS.272·6306  LAFORTUNE INFO DESK.  
and is a lot of fun? Look no fur­ from June 26 through 30. The hours  
ther ...  Found-3-way channel switcher @  are 1 :30-4:30 p.m. Monday through  LIVE IN A GOOD NEIGHBOR·  PRAYEA TO THE BLESSED  
Architecture Bldg on Sat.3/25  Friday. Please cell 289-4540 or  HOOD FURNISHED HOMES  THE VIEWPOINT DEPARTMENT  VIRGIN (never known to fail)  
THE SOPHOMORE CLASS  Call Pete @ 233-5130  631·6614 for an inteiView.  NORTH OF NO FOR NEXT  is hiring for positions.  Oh most beautiful flower of Mt.  
SERVICE PROJECT  SCHOOL YEAR IDEAL FOR 3·8  Carmel, fruitful vine, splendor of  
LOST: Navy blue Gant jacket with  WANTED: former wrestlers to help  STUDENTS 2773097  Help shape editorial content and  heaven, blessed Mother of the Son  
Youth Mentoring at the NE  brown leather sleeves. Reward!  coach a kid's freestyle wrestling  get the opportunity to write the  of God, Immaculate Virgin, assist  
Neighborhood WEDNESDAYS  Call John @ x3589  program. Ages 5 & up. 2  RENT FROM US for SUMMER!  Inside Column too. Just think of ill  me in my necessity. Oh Star of the  
AND FRIDAYS 2:30·3:30-4:30  nights/week, 6-8 pm. Call Tom  BIG 2br apt w/ wash/dry CLOSE to  Sea, help me and show me here  
meet at room 161 or Main Circle  ***FOUND***  Dolly at 255-0137.  NDI call 273-0182 Brenda, Sarah,  Call Mike at 631-4541 for info. Or  you are my Mother. Oh Holy Mary,  
Questions?· Brian Tierney x1058  Car key and attachment.  Julie  see related ad in today's paper.  Mother of God, Queen of Heaven  
Sat. night between Zahm  Typist needed. 30 pgs. Big $$$.  and Earth. I humbly beseech you  
DO EUROPE  and Keenan. Call x4622.  x4574 Susan  Professional gals at Castle Pt. need  SYNCHRONIZED SWIMMING  from the bottom of my heart to suc­ 
·$229 anytime!  roomies, no undergrads. 271-0801.  SPRING  cor me in my necessity...(MAKE  
•• FREE Brochure** Also cheap fares worldwide AIRHITCH 1·800·326·2009  WANTED  ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOY· MENTI EARN THOUSANDS THIS SUMMER IN CANNERIES,  FOR SALE  SHOW! I Saturday, April 1 Rolfs Aquatic Center, 7:00 pm  REQUEST) There are none that can withstand your power. Oh Mary, conceived without sin, pray  
ENVIRONMENTAL JOBS FOR  PROCESSORS, ETC.  Free Admission  for us who have recourse to thee.  
$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS$$  THE SUMMER. Earn $2500·$3500  MALE/FEMALE.  OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered  (repeat) (repeat) Holy Mary, I place  
Are you going to read those things  & Free the Planet Campaign to  ROOM/BOARD/TRAVEL OFTEN  at $85,900. First floor location.  WVFI 640 am is now looking out  this prayer for your hands. (repeat)  
again? I think not. 2323·2342  save endangered species, promote  PROVIDED! GUIDE. GUARAN­ Finished basement with full lavato­ and taking applications for board  (repeat)-say 3 consec days,  
Pandora's Bks NO Ave & Howard  recycling and stop polluters. Work  TEED SUCCESS! (919)929·4398  ry. Two bedrooms and two baths on  postions for the 95-96 semesters.  publish, will be granted-GRATE·  
with major environmental gruops  extA1082  ground level. Lease back to owner  Applications are available outside  FUL THANKS!  
ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAK·  like the PIRGS, Sierra club & Green  through May, 1995. Call  the station on the second floor of  
FAST, 35 MIN TO N.D. SPECIAL  Corps. Positions in 33 states & D.C.  AA CRUISE SHIPS HIRING! EARN  (616)946-0700.  LaFortune and must be reutumed  
"OBSERVER" RATE $50/$60,  Campus lnteNiews: March 30 & 31  BIG$$$+ FREE WORLD TRAVEL  to the Student Activities office (315)  
FULL BREAKFAST. THE HOME·  Call Jamie: 1-800·75-EARTH  (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII,  '90 red ford escort, new  or to the drop off site outside the  TO THE WHITE CAR  
SPUN COUNTRY INN, NAPPA·  ETC.) SUMMER/PERMANENT, NO  tires, good condition.  WVFI's studios by 5:00 pm EST  DINNER SOUNDS GREAT! MY#  
NEE, 219·773·2034.  EXPER. NEC. GUIDE. (919)929·  $4,000 634-4098  March 31, 95.  IS  
An Tostal1995 needs artists again.  4398 ext. C1082.  284·4140 ­MARISA {NYW375)  
LETHAL WEAPON 1  NEAR CAMPUS 2 BDRM  Thurs. April 6 is BADIN COMEDY  
Thurs. 8110:30  Looking for Logo for "Quest for the  WANT '86·'88 2-DR. BLAZER,  HOME. 2 LOTS. BASEMENT.  NITE. A chance for campus come­ 
Montgomery Theatre  Crown•  JIMMY, OR CHEROKEE.  GARAGE. $29,900. GILLIS REAL·  dians to strut their stuff and win  Top Quotes of New Mexico  
Submit something to SUB office by  CALL ED@  TY272-6306  CASH! If you have a friend who  15. Steve Winwood was in traffic  
Friday.  291·1011 OR 287·0616  makes you laugh or if YOU think  where?  
PULP FICTION  90 Toyota Corolla SR5 50KMi  you're pretty funny, and would like  14. How spell double a mco?  
FRI. & SAT. 8110:30  Call Tom at1563 with questions.  Summer Camp Staff; Camp  5-spd $6450 234-4113  to try stand-up comedy call MK @  13. Just answer Moses for every  
CUSHING AUDITORIUM  Chateaugay in the beautiful  x2735.  question.  
Adirondacks is looking far coun­ For Sale • Duplexes 10 min. from  12. You've got enough problems  
I NEED YOU! I NEED YOU!  selors that can instruct in the follow­ Notre Dame. 2 bedroom & 3 avail·  LOSE WEIGHT FOR SUMMER!  lobster boy!  
WORD PROCESSING, TAXES,  Looking for a ride to Knoxville,  ing activities: Tennis, Basketball,  able. Priced to sell.  After 3 kids, I lost 231bs., went from  11. What if they used a gunea pig  
GIFTS. 256·6657  Tennessee for Easter Break. If  Sailing, Windsurfing, Gymnastics,  272-8555 am 272-9716 pm  size 9 to a 3 in 8 weeks, w/o  instead of a gerbil?  
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@ @  your going to or through, could I ride with you? Call Larry at 634-3597 if you can  Woodworking, Canoeing. Please call Laurie at 1-800-487 ·3866  TICKETS  diets/drugs/exercise. All-natural products, easy, guaranteed! Kelly 1-800-209-2150  10. I hope the old ball and chain has dinner ready when we get home.  
Bring a partner and come to the  help. Thanks.  SUMMER JOBS  9. Change daily.  
BALLROOM DANCING  ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  2 tix BJoeVEJohn INpolis 3131  IF YOU SMOKE CAMEL CIGA·  8. No more bog dar!.  
WORKSHOP  Need ride to Chicago's NW suburbs  PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS  $150 OBO 271-8860  RETIES. CALL 2954  7. Bill and Ted do New Mexico.  
This Wed., 3129 from 7-10 p.m. in  on Fri. March 31. Call Rob x4333  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  6. When do we get to Tuscon?  
the LaFun Ballroom. Brought to  NEAR LAKE PLACID  I need 4 tickets for graduation.  5. Get the list! Wait I've got itt  
you by SUB and the ND/SMC  NATIONAL PARKS HIRING·  1·800· 786·8373  Need grad tix. PLEASE  Can anyone help?  4. Damn Rabbit!  
Ballroom Dance Club. Also, we  Seasonal & full-time employment  Max@ x1173  CALL GREGG 273-2871  3. I guess we're gonna have to do  
have ****FREE FOOD'****. @@@@@@@@@@@@@@@ @  available at National Parks, Forests & Wildlife PreseNes. Benefits & bonuses! Call: 1-206·545-4804 ext.  Wanted: Looking for an easy going girl to be a live in nannie for six chil·  PERSONAL  JUNIORS: *THERE WILL BE A CASH BAR AT  the female thing and ask for directions. 2. Smoke up a big mother.  
N55842  dren this summer in Lake Forest,  THE UNION STATION PARTY ON  1. IrS ONLY A RENTAL.  
DANCE DANCE DANCE DANCE  ILL. Must have good references,  FRIDAY NIGHT MARCH 31  
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING •  be responsible, love children, and  THE SECOND CITY RETURNS!!!  *$1 SURPRISE RAFFLE TRIP IS  
Notre Dame and St. Mary's stu­ Earn up to $2,000+/month working  enjoy swimming.  Washington Hall  THE MAIN DOOR PRIZE. $3  
dents will be performing in  on Cruise Ships or Land· Tour com­ If interested please write at  Wed., April12  COVER INCLUDES 1 RAFFLE TIX  Kat-Whoa. Pig. Sooey.  
Artmoves... 3131 and 4/1 8pm  panies. World travel (Hawaii,  Dorothy Wehmer  Tickets are $3... on sale now at  'FREE TRANSPO BUSES WILL  
4/2 2:30 in O'Laugh, SMC,$2  Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.).  454 Buena Rd.  LafortuAe Info Desk  BE AVAILABLE AT MAIN &  
Student choreographers premiere  Seasonal and full-time employment  Lake Forest, IL 60045  Get them now; it WILL SELL OUT!  LIBRARY CIRCLE STARTING AT  In my mind, I go to Carolina. That's  
original works!I  available. No experience neces­ or call (after April 3)  8:30 AND 9PM. THE BUSES WILL  right Jimbo, hairy Dante and the  
sary. For more information cal 1·  (708-234-8125).  RUN TO AND FROM EVERY  boys will be cutting them down in  
CONCERT CONCERT CONCERT  206-634-0468 ext. C55844  X-RAY ROGER JIMMY LIVE AT  HOUR AND HALF HOUR  Seattle in a matter of days.  
Looking for an easy going girl to be  CORBY'S APR. 1 & CLUB 23  
ILOST&FOUNDI  Looking for part-time athletic instructors for the National Youth  a live in nanny for 6 children this summer in Lake Forest, IL. Must  APRIL 8. SHOW STARTS AT 10.  He doesn't like you.....  I'm going to go out on a limb and  
Sports Program at Notre Dame.  have good references, be responsi­ I don't like you either  predict there was no words  
-.  FOUND WOMAN'S RING IN DBRT, SEC·  This program targets economically disadvantaged 10 to 16-year-old  ble, love children, enjoy swimming. If interested, please write to Dorthy  JUNIOR WEEK EVENTS WED 3/29: NHL HOCKEY TRIP  Well it oughta be simple, oughta be  exchanged last night.  
OND FLOOR. CALL 2954  children by providing them with  Wehmer 454 Buena Rd. Lake  BLACKHAWKS VS BLUES  easy enough,  
sports instruction, drug and alcohol  Forest, IL 60045 or call (after Apr.  BUS LEAVES C.C.E AT 5PM  man meets woman and they fall in  Hey! Another campus radio station  
POSTED: $ 250.00 Reward  prevention, career information, and  3) 708·234·8125.  $20 TICKETS ON SALE AT  love,  does exist! Listen to WSND FM at  
For the retrieval or info leading to  nutritional lunches. This is an  For Rent  LAFORTUNE INFO DESK  but the house is haunted and the  88.9 on your stereo dial after mid·  
the retrieval of my stolen mountain  opportunity for students who will be  THURS 3130: BOWLING NIGHT  ride gets rough  night for alternative (whatever that  
bike. Brand: Cadex Alm-1,  attending summer school to supple­ AT BEACON BOWL 9:30PM  you've got to learn to live with what  means anymore) music madness.  
18", Front suspension  ment their income while giving to  NEED Fm to share 4bdrm home  FRI 3131: JUNIOR CLASS BASH  you can't rise above  
Color: metalic silver and wine­ the community. Applicants must  next sc yr WALK TO CLASS 289·  AT UNION STATION 9PM-1AM  if you wanna ride down baby, into  I hate writing my senior essay  
berry red. -Do the right thing,  possess the ability to instruct one or  9420  this Tunnel of Love  
Please I!I No questions asked.  more of the following sports: tennis,  

Wednesday, March 29, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• fOOTBALL 


Eagles free veteran Walker 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA 
The Philadelphia Eagles today released 33­year-old running back Herschel Walker after he refused a pay cut. 
Walker, the team's o!Tensive MVP the last two seasons, became expendable after last week­end's signing of San Francisco's Ricky Watters to a three-year $6.9 million contract. 
"That's what I wanted. I got my release. Now I c&n go talk to a couple of teams, because I'm not ready to give it up, yet," Walker said Monday as he awaited formal word of his release. He didn't mention any teams by name. 
"We felt that if we were to stand in his way, that would not be fair to Herschel," Eagles owner Jeffrey Lurie said in a statement today. 
"What makes this difficult, though, is that Herschel is not just any football player," said Lurie. "He is a very special person. In a world where there are not enough role models, he may be one of the best." 
Walker told the team last week he would rather be cut than take a pay cut. 
"Why should I?" said Walker, who led the Eagles with 528 yards ·rushing last season. "Has my talent diminished? I can't play now? They tell me they overpaid to sign free agents. Is that my fault?" 
In three seasons with Philadelphia, the Walker rushed for 2,344 yards and had 1,388 receiving yards. He played fullback, running back, tight end and special teams. 
"I love Philadelphia. I love the fans. I told them I want to finish my career here. I gave my life for this football team on the field," he said. "It's like I took a bath with the wrong soap and I smell. Now they do not want to be bothered with me." 

More probation in Pullman 

Associated Press 
PULLMAN, Wash. 

The probationary period for Washington State's athletic pro­gram was extended another two years by the NCAA today because of a new case involving the use of two eligible football players and one ineligible base­ball player. 
In addition to extending the athletics program's probation­ary status to June 1997, the NCAA Committee on Infractions reprimanded the program and reduced the maximum number of initial football scholarships available during the 1995-96 academic year from 25 to 23. 
The NCAA, in a news release from its headquarters in Overland Park, Kan., said the total number of football schol­arships allowed could not ex­ceed 83. 
Universities on probation are subject to more frequent review of department procedures and additional reporting re­quirements. 
Washington State's program had already had its probation extended from June 1995 to June 1997 last year by the Pacific-1 0 Conference in the same case. 
At the time the Pac-10 an­nounced its penalties last June, the school's athletic program already was on probation for awarding too many scholar­ships in baseball and track and field. That probation was ex­tended two years by the Pac-10 as a result of the more recent infractions involving player eli­gibility. 
The NCAA could have ordered stiffer penalties because the case falls under the NCAA's repeat-violator provi­sions. But, the committee decid­ed the violations did not war­rant such penalties, and made an exception, the NCAA said. 
The NCAA said Washington State had 15 days in which to decide whether to appeal the penalties. 
The NCAA said the school knowingly certified a football player as eligible even though it knew he failed to meet NCAA regulations for satisfactory aca­demic progress. The athlete played in eight games in 1992. 
The other football player also played in 1992 even though he was a credit short of meeting satisfactory progress require­ments. 
The baseball player took part in two practices in the fall of 1993 and nine games in spring 1994 even though, as a transfer student, he was ineligible. 

woman like Monica, who was stabbed in the back without doing anything wrong, will also have those memories for a long time." 
May indicated that Seles, whom he has been treating since July 1993, had asked him to testify at the retrial of Guenther Parche, who got a two-year suspended sentence for attacking Seles during a tournament in April that year. Parche has said he wanted to injure the Yugoslavia-born Seles so that Stem Gnu, could beNo. 1. 
"She was merely playing tenpis in a tennis tournament betOre thousands of people in a supposedly secure environ· ment with no reason to fear," May testified. ''That makes it more difficult to be in any sit· uation and judge whether you can trust the situation or not." 
Parche, a 40-year-old unem· ployed east German. had· said earlier that he was aiming to stab Sales in the arm so that her injury would be slight. 
Evans was given conditional releases from prison three times, but each time he violat­ed the terms of his release and was returned to prison, said Debbie Buchanan, a spokes­woman for the state Department of Corrections. 
He was free on his fourth conditional release when Shotkoski was slain, she said. 
Evans had been in the Florida prison system, English said, but state law prohibited him from saying on what charge. He said Evans went by the street name of "1000" and had the number tatooed on his right arm. 
"We heard about him, we knew he was out on the street," English said. "Florida considers him a habitual offender." 
Associated Press 
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. 
A Florida man was charged today in the shooting death of an Atlanta Braves replacement player. 
Neal Douglas Evans, 29, was arrested Sunday after police tracked him to an abandoned warehouse, said police Sgt. John English. 
Evans was arrested on a pa­role violation while detectives continued to build a case against him in the death of pitcher Dave Shotkoski last Friday in a botched armed rob­bery attempt, English said. 
Evans was charged this morning with first-degree mur­der and attempted armed rob­bery in the slaying of Shotkoski. 

come see the cultural sights ofChicago 
TRIP 
If you didn't sign up for ROTC as a By the time you have graduated from 
APRIL 9, 1995 
freshman or sophomore, you can still college, you'll have the credentials of catch up to your classmates by 
-~~ an Army officer. You'll also have 
9:45AM -9:30 PM 
attendmg Army ROTC Camp Chal­the self-confidence and discipline 
TICKETS AVAILABLE FOR $5 AT THE
lenge, a paid six-week summer it takes to succeed in college and course in leadership training. beyond. 
LAFORTUNE INFO DESK 
free dinner included 
ARMY ROTC 
purchase tickets by FRIDAY, MARCH 31 
m SMARTEST C:OWGE COURSE YOU CD TAKE. 
For details, visit 216 Pasquerilla Center or call 
brought to you by __II)
631-6986 

• COLLEGE BASKETBAll 

Small town boasts of Big Country NIT final to tip off with 
By DOUG FERGUSON 
Associated Press 
GANS, Okla. 
One stop sign. One general store. One school. One part­time police officer. It takes just one mile to get through Gans, home of one 7-foot center who in these parts has become a legend. 
In any other town, Oklahoma State's Bryant Reeves might have made the folks back home proud -Big Eight player of the year as a sophomore, first team All-Big Eight three straight years and now a berth in the Final Four. 
Reeves did more than that: He put Gans on the map. 
"People never would have known where it was," school superintendent Charles Ballard said Tuesday. "But anyone who fullows college basketball knows about Bryant Reeves, and anyone who knows about Bryant Reeves knows about Gans." 
Gans, population 218, is lo­cated 15 miles west of the Arkansas border. Most resi­dents either raise cattle or, like Reeves' father, work in Fort Smith, Ark. 
The school has about 280 stu­dents and for years had just one sport until baseball was added this year. Drivers in pickup trucks wave at everyone they pass. 
The community is so tight that Reeves once rejected suggestions that he move to a bigger school to improve his chances of playing major col­lege basketball. 
"Bryant didn't want to," said his mother, Carolyn, a teacher's aide. "He said this was his home. And they found him." 
Indiana coach Bob Knight came to Gans, and so did Eddie Sutton from Oklahoma State. Tom Kennedy remembers "a large crowd -about 30" turn­ing out for Sutton's visit. 
"We had a big supper and he talked about Bryant, how he wanted to take him up there to Stillwater and see what he could do," said Kennedy, who lives a few houses down from Reeves' grandmother. "Ol' Sutton had some faith. Bryant was awkward because he was growing so fast. But coach Sutton knew more than the rest of us." 
Reeves indeed was a project at Oklahoma State. Sutton said 


Marquette and Va. Tech 
By DAVE GOLDBERG 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Mike Deane of Marquette and Bill Foster of Virginia Tech have short memories. 
Neither seemed to remember on Tuesday a thing about their team's first meeting this sea­son. 
"Frankly, I don't think that before last night my kids could tell you the names of three players for Marquette," said Foster, whose Hokies play the Golden Eagles for the NIT championship Wednesday night. "There have been just too many games and just too many players since then." 
For the record, Virginia Tech won 57-54 in Milwaukee on Jan. 17. But both coaches said so much has changed since then that it's almost no use to study the tapes. 
But they look ahead to the fi­nal from different perspectives. Virginia Tech is seeking to 
use the tournament as a springboard for its move to the Atlantic 10 next season. 
"The exposure we've had on television has helped us tremendously already," Foster said. "We got calls back from players we've been trying to recruit who weren't really in­terested. And maybe we'll get more when we start playing against schools like Massachusetts, George Washington and Temple." 
Marquette, which had signed its recruites by November, is trying to build on its illustrious past -it last won the NIT 25 years ago under AI McGuire and one of that team's stars, Dean Meminger, has been fol­lowing the team around during the post-season as a good luck charm. 
"It's been a long time since were at that level and our kids weren't even born then," Deane said. "You can't re-live the Al McGuire years, but you can set them as a goal."

he had hoped Reeves could contribute by the time he was a sophomore. 
But Reeves was starting as a freshman and was Big Eight player of the year the next sea­son. As a junior, he hit a half­court shot at the buzzer to send a game against Missouri into overtime. He set a school record with 20 rebounds, along with 30 points, in a win over Kansas this year. 
Big Country kept getting big­ger. 
"His whole career has been like a fairytale," said Mrs. Reeves, who flew on an air­plane for the first time when the family traveled to Baltimore for East regional wins over Drexel and Alabama. "I never dreamed he would get this far." 
The townsfolk, aware that Reeves had potential because of his size alone, also admit being a little surprised at how much he has developed. Frank Anglen held his hand to knee­level to show how long he's known Reeves, then smiled as he gradually raised his hand as high as he can. 
Anglen pointed beyond his house to a slab of concrete in a field where Reeves once played -it was the only basketball court in town besides the high school gym. Sutton and his as­sistants once urged Reeves to go to the "big city" to fmd off­season competition and hone his game. Reeves went to Sallisaw. 
"He couldn't play with any­one around here," Anglen said. "But everyone knew from the time he was a teen-ager that he was going to play, because he started growing and kept grow­ing." 
For those who know him, Big Country is still Bryant. He still calls men "sir" and women "ma'am." And he loves to fish -a bulletin board in the gen­eral store called the "Brag Board" shows Reeves with a dozen stripers. 

The Perfect Way to Spend a Wednesday Night! Come toCJ's! Enjoy 6 cups of your favorite beverage tonight ­~ price! $2 entrance fee 10 pm 'til close 417 N. Michigan 233.5981  

Do you want to get involved???? 
Gain experience that perspective Employers like to see! 
Sophomore Business Majors, The Student Business Board is now accepting applications for 199 5-1996 
Assistant General Manager 
As the Assistant General Manager you will gain hands on experience helping to oversee the operation of ND Video, Irish Gardens, and Adworks. These student operated businesses allow motivated students the opportunity to put their education to work and earn some money. 


Applications are available in the
WEEKEND 
Student Government Office, 2nd Floor LaFortune. 
RACQUETBALL TOURNAMENT 
Sophomore and Juniors, Any Major, SBB 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 
is also accepting applications for the 1995-96 
MARCH 31 & APRIL 1 JOYCE CENTER 
Irish Gardens Manager and Assistant Managers 
NO Video Manager T -Shirts to all Participants 
Men's & Women's Divisions 
Pick up applications during business 
Bring Your Own Racquet 
hours at Irish Gardens or ND Video.
Balls Will be Provided Refreshments Will be Served 
Applications Due April 1Oth 
Register in Advance at RecSports 
Any Questions call 631-8040. 
Deadline: Thursday, March 30 
Applicants will be notified of interviews. 
$6.00 Fee 
Wednesday, March 29, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• SOFTBAll • COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Michigan matchup cancelled Injuries on the mind 
By NEIL ZENDER 
Sports Writer 
You've got a big softball game tomorrow. It's against those hated Michigan Wolverines. Game time will even force you to miss class. What a darn shame. But in the morning,you discover that Michigan has 2.5 in.ches of the white stuff, and the weather has a snowball's chance in the Sahara of improving. 
"You have to be prepared," senior Catcher Sara Hayes said. "You never know what's going to happen with South Bend's climate. It could be sunny in the morning and raining in the afternoon." 
Surprisingly, the Notre Dame softball team wasn't unhappy about attending class today. 
"A lot of the team has big weeks academically. We'll have two days of solid practice before we play Bowling Green. That gives people a chance to get caught up on their sleep and academics." 
But while Michigan is deep in snow, the Irish are deep in the middle of a solid 15-7 season. Last weekend, the club showed signs of pulling out of its hitting slump against Ball State. 
Notre Dame hammered out 16 hits on their way to sweep-ing a doubleheader against the Cardinals. 

In the first game, the Irish rallied from a 1-0 deficit for a 2-1 victory. Notre Dame tied the game in the fifth when Freshman Jennifer Giampaolo singled, moved to second on Katie Marten's groundout, and scored on Liz Perkins' single. 
Notre Dame picked up the winning run in the top of the seventh. With one out, Jenna Knudson and Liz Perkins sin­gled. Then, Hayes singled to left field, bringing Knudson across the plate with the win­ning run. 
Irish starter Terri Kobata (7­
1) allowed only two hits, and whiffed twelve batters. 
Despite committing three er­rors, the Irish won the second game 3-1. Joy Battersby (7-3) picked up the win, and Kelly Nichols notched her fifth save of the season in relief. 
"Although we had the errors, we always got out of it," Hayes said. "We stuck our nose to the ground and got out of the in­ning." 
With two down in the third, Katie Marten singled, stole sec­ond, and scored on Andrea Kollar's double. Notre Dame added what would be the win­ning run in the fourth. Hayes led off with a double and scored on Meghan Murray's single to left. 


Saint Mary's College Senior Class Formal 
April 22, 1995 Century Center, South Bend, IN 7:00pm -2:00 am Music, Cocktails, Dinner, Dancing Tickets: $80 per couple ($40 singles) 
LAST CHANCE FOR STUDENTS(including ND students) WHO WISH TO ATTEND TO MAKE A $40 DEPOSIT 
DEPOSIT COLLECTION: THURSDAY, MARCH 30 IN LEMANS LOBBY FROM 12pm -2pm and Spm -8pm First come first serve basis 
Remaining balance will be collected April 4th and 5th. Any questions call Jean @ 273-9303 or Isabel @ 284-5125 
of Carolina, Smith 
By TOM FOREMAN Jr. 
Associated Press 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. Someone asked Dean Smith about North Carolina's health, and was he ever sorry he got the answer. 
North Carolina (28-5) is mak­ing final preparations to face Arkansas (31-6) in the Final Four in Seattle on Saturday. The Tar Heels are doing it despite some bumps and bruis­es that make practicing for the Razorbacks a little difficult. 
To find out about the health of his team, Smith dispatched an assistant in the sports infor­mation department to trainer Marc Davis. The assistant returned with half a piece of notebook paper. 
Smith took his glasses out of his jacket, looked at the paper and rattled off the problems. On the list were starters Donald Williams, Jeff Mcinnis and Rasheed Wallace, and reserve Pearce Landry. 
"Donald Williams, sprained left ankle, status unknown, hasn't seen him yet today," Smith read from Davis' impromptu report. "Jeff Mcinnis, pulled groin muscle, not any better than yesterday. 
"I hope this gets better," Smith said at his news confer­ence Tuesday. 
It didn't. 
"Rasheed Wallace, sprained ankle. Improved over yester­day. Pierce Landry sprained right wrist, slightly improved over yesterday by wrist is still tender." 
Against Kentucky, it seemed like everyone wearing a North Carolina uniform was grabbing for their legs in pain at some point during the day. Dante Calabria, who sat out part of January with an ankle sprain, hurt his leg as well in the victo­ry over the Wildcats. 
Smith already had an inkling of the team's miseries before his news conference. Although the team had Sunday off after winning the NCAA Southeast Regional, it wasn't enough time to allow the Tar Heels to heal. 
Use Observer Classifieds 
jEngagement Rings 10%-15% OFF! Official Wholesale PriaLList! 

S.A. Peck & Co. 

55 E. Mluhinf1on, Chicago, 1L 60602 For a Frtt J2·Part Color Calalor 1bii·Frt~ (800) 912-0090 FAX (J/1) 977-0U8 lnttnrtt CtJIIJJor IJ/ btrp: 1/w•·•.saptck.com/saptek 
Thursday Ni-tef Don't miss Vegas at the Alumni-Senior Club. Win a free trip to Las Vegas and Iisten to the Bon Ton Soul Accordian Band  
"These guys make "The Dead" look like Kenny G" **** Kelly Guerin, '9S  

Major Payne (PG13) 4:30, 6:45. 9:15 Bye Bye Love (PG13) 5:00, 7:30, 9:45 Man ollhe House (PG) 4:45. 7:15. 9:30 Tall Tale (PG13) 4:15.6:45.9:00 Oulbreak (R) 4:00, 7:00. 10:00 CBndyman II (R) 5:15,7:45, 10:00 
Legends ollhe Fall (R) 4:00. 7:00. 9:45 Hoop Dreams (PG13) 4:30. 8:00 Red (R) 4:45, 7:15. 9:30 

• SMC SOFTBAll 

Pilots fly by Belles 4-3 shortened doubleheader 
By LORI GADDIS Spons Writer 
The Saint Mary's softball team had only one thing on their minds as they traveled across town to challenge the Bethel College Pilots: avenge the game they had lost last sea­son. 
Bethel won the National Christian Collegiate Athletic Association in 1994 and the Belles hope to ruin the Pilots' hope of a repeat. They defeat­ed the Pilots 4-3 in the first g~me. The second game was called on account of darkness. The Belles had three hits and six runs at the conclusion of the fourth inning. That game will tentatively be rescheduled. 
In the first game, the Belles' junior pitcher Maria Vogel struck out the first two batters and had only one walk for the game. But Saint Mary's also had some help from the Bethel Pilots pitcher, Ann Wetzel, who was pulled in the sixth inning after walking 12 Belles. 
Kris Winenger finished the game by walking in the tying run. Vogel then helped her own cause by singling up the middle, driving a runner home and allowing Saint Mary's to take the lead in the bottom of the sixth inning. 
The Belles' defense hung on to send Bethel down in order, highlighted by an extraordinary leaping catch made by junior second basemen Amy Misch. Misch attributes the team's success to the Belles' tough de­fense and the camaraderie that has developed between the Belles. 
"We all click because we are 
friends as well as teammates," 
Misch stated. "It makes it eas­
ier to work together, keep our 
heads up, and maintain inten­
sity as a team." 
Offensively, the Belles per­
formance was limited due to 
the large number of walks, but 
the Belles left twelve of their 
runners on. Three of four Saint 
Mary's runs were unearned. 
Junior Laura Richter com­
mented on the Belles' base per­
formance. 
"It seemed like once we got 
the runners on base, we had a 
difficult time getting them in," 
Richter said. "But we took ad­
vantage when Bethel was down and kept our intensity up when we needed to." 

One major improvement in the Belles' performance was that the first game was played error-free. This has been a goal for Saint Mary's since the beginning of the season, about which first-year head coach Maggie Killian has been adamant. 
"I knew that if we played er­ror-free, we would perform well. We really played as a team and remained enthusias­tic throughout the game." 
The Belles hope to continue with their six-game winning streak when they travel to Illinois Benedictine College this Saturday. 
Baseball 
continued from page 20 
were struggling mightily to contain Notre Dame, right­
hander  Dan  Stavisky  was  
throwing  a  gem  at  the  
Hoosiers.  

The freshman earned his first collegiate win with a com­plete game, nine strike-out performance. Stavisky allowed three earned runs, eight hits and one walk. 
Only Hoosier leading hitter Mike Crotty gave Stavisky problems, going 3x4 with a homer and a double. 
But Crotty's performance was surpassed by Notre Dame's senior captain. 
DeSensi finished the day with a three-run bomb in the ninth inning, his second of the year. DeSensi went 3x5 with three RBI and four runs scored. 
Sollman was 3x6 with a dou­ble and three runs scored. Restovich was 2x5 with three RBI. 
All told, six of the players in the Notre Dame line-up had a multiple hit game against Indiana. Seven of the nine bat­ters had an RBI. 
"With the injury to Rowan Richards, we have a big void in power," head coach Paul Mainieri said. "In order to be successful we need a lot of dif­ferent people to step up and put some hits together." 
Richards showed signs of re­covery, pinch-running and playing centerfield in the ninth inning. 
CASTING & ANGLING CouRsE 
Four Sessions Tuesday 6:00-7:30 PM Open to Students & Staff $8.00 Class Fee 
CLASS IJ1\.l .c:s APRIL 4 APRIL 11 APRIL 18 ArRtL 25 

Classes Held in the 
Joyce Center, Rolfs & Campus Lakes Equipment Provided but Bring Own if Possible Register in Advance at RecSports 
Opportunity to Purchase Fishing Gear at Discounted Rates 
Opener 
continued from page 20 

free Subway sandwich. The first 500 people to Frank Eck Stadium today receive a certificate for a free sub. 
"It'll be nice not have to travel," Mainieri said. 
Wednesday, March 29, 1995 
will benefit Christmas 
will be six divi~ run and trophies· finishers. T·shirts to all registrants. cost is $5 in advance the day of. All partici· it.,. 'mnc:t sign the necessary can be ·obtained lAr.csnr)rt'l or at the events, call RecSports 
TAE KWON DO CLUB like to congratulate 
Consicline, Marty and Clinton Piper for winning perfor· 
a.t this year's state 
held last Purdue 

"We'll be able to get into a routine and hopefully string together some wins." 
Notre Dame will have plenty of time on cam­pus, as 26 of their next 28 games are at home. 
"I think we've paid our dues with a lot of tough games on the road," Mainieri says. "We're excit­ed and proud of our ballpark. We're looking for­ward to defending it." 

Department o 



The Notre Dame German and Russian Summer Language Institute offers an intensive summer rogram of courses and cultural enrichment. Earn up to 9 language credits in German and 6 
language credits in Russian in small, lively classes taught with imagination. The professors are experienced in offering concentrated, yet personalized instruction. Recent ND graduates benefit 
rom a 50% reduction in tuition. 

LEARN THE LANGUAGES OF THE 90'S 
Ft....., Videos/InteraaUve Video/ Compnterlll Video DIHtll Experienced Profes1101'11/ Dally Tutorial In atete of the art lanpap laboratory/ TuiUon Savtnp Pei'IIOD&i AttentionllmapnaUve lnatrnctionl Lively Clauroom Atmo.phere 
CJMM' OUored· OE 101 BeJtlnnlnc Qel'lll&D 1: 8120 • 7/4 (3 arecllta) Intenalve Introduction lo German for etudente with no or 
minimal background  
OE lOll  BeJtlnnlnc Oel'lll&D 0: 7/'6 • 7/18  (3 arecllta)  
Continuation of OE 101  
OE 103  BeJtlnnlnc Oel'lll&D 10: 7/aO • 812  (3 areclita)  
Continuation of GE 102  

Fnllllla ND lanpap requirement. Taught dally 10:110 a.m. 1o 12:30 p.m.• lulorlal al1:30 p.m. 
OE MO ConveraaUonal Oei'IDBD: 81110 • 812 (3 credits) A course for oludents of all-with some background In German (101/102 • elementary. or equivalent.) Emphasis on conversation, speaking nuency and comprehenalon. ualng Interactive video disco logether with acoompanylng leJ<tbook. Communicate effectively and appropriately In a range of common altuatlona for a variety of purposes. Fnllllla ND lanpap reqnlrement. Taught TTH 8:00p.m. lo 8:30p.m. 
RU 101 Be!Pnnln&' Rnaaian 1: 8120 -7/1 (3 credlta) Intenolve Introduction lo Ruaalan for students with no or minimal background. 
RU lOll Be&'iJmlng R1111aian 0: 7/18 • 8/18 (3 credits) Continuation of Ruaolan 101. Taught dally 10:110 a.m. 1o 111:30 p.m. 
Application forms may be obtained by writing to: Summer School Director 312 Main Building University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, IN 46556 


THE NOTRE DAME ACCOUNTING ASSOCIATION AND BETA ALPHA Psi INVITE YOU TO A PRESENTATION BY STEVE BARRETT OF PROCTOR AND GAMBLE ON THURSDAY. MARCH 30 AT 6:30PM. -­ROOM 122, HAYES-HEALY  
Frances Goldscheider Brown University speaks on The Construction of Women's Work and Family Lives after Demographic Transition Thursday, March 3 0 4:15p.m. 122 Hayes-Healy Reception to Follow  

NCAA 
continued from page 20 
some they would rather erase from their memory banks. "Considering the way we 
fenced,  we're  happy  with  
third,"  foil  captain  Stan  
Brunner said.  

"I think we finished honestly where everyone thought we would," sabreman Bill Lester said who finished second in the nation in sabre. 
Part of the problem was that the Irish were not only lighting the competition, but also against the format of the tour­nament. This format allows for the focus to drift away from the team, emphasizing the individual. 
"We favor the team concept, but this tournament places a premium on individual fenc­ing," men's head coach Mike DeCicco said. "We did a fan­tastic job considering this for­mat." 
"Even if team unity exists, it is like its not really there when your striving for a team cham­pionship in an individual for­mat," assistant coach Ed Baguer said. 
Brunner, the senior, who will continue his fencing career after he graduates, probably summed it up best. 
"This season was a downer compared to last year," Brunner said. "A big part of that, however. is the format." 
Another key aspect of win­ning hinged on how the second fencers who qualified would perform. 
"Penn State's 1-2 punches were strong enough to carry them," Baguer said. "Our 1-2 fencers didn't perform as well as we hoped." 
On the bright side, Lester fenced magnificently as he 
page 17 

placed on his first All­American team. Lester just missed first as he lost to NYU's Paul Palestis 5-2 in a fence-off for the championship. 
"I spent so much time getting ready for that match, that I neglected to do what I needed to in order to win," Lester said. 
Sabre captain Chris Hajnik finished the day in 20th place. 
In men's epee, balance was provided by both the old and the new. Senior captain Rakesh Patel became a two­time All-American, finishing in eighth place. Two spots ahead of him in sixth place is the future. Freshman Carl Jackson came up big in his first NCAA championship and now looks to build on experience gained. 
"I feel great," said the new All-American. "I progressed tremendously over the season and raised my fencing about three notches." 
"Carl really did turn it on today," Patel noted. ''I'm really proud of him." 
Joining Patel as a two-time All-American is sophomore foilist Jeremy Siek who ended the day in 12th. Stanford's Sean McClain won the men's foil crown as he recorded a 19­4 mark over the two days of competition. 
Senior Conor Power conclud­ed his career at Notre Dame wit a 21st place showing. 
After being unseated as champions, the Irish must now look to the future to add to their quiet tradition of excel­lence. 
"We've got a nice nucleus coming back next year." DeCicco said. 
One sees that nucleus in the from of Jackson and others. "Next year, I'll do better," Jackson concluded. Not much more can be done than that. 

ou're Lega I in the US and Canada! 
To Teach 
I Aerobics! I I 
Earn Extra$$$ While Staying In Shape Here Is How: 

**Pick up an Aerobic Instructor Application from the RecSports office. Return the completed form Sunday, ApriJ2. 
.. 

**Attend an Aerobics Workshop on Sunday, April 2, 12:00-2:00, Rockne 301. This workshop will provide basic information on instruction as well as polish other teaching skills. We will also be teaching a routine which each individual must perfol'l'"! at the instructor auditions April 21. Please bring a blank cassette tape. **Set up an interview with Jennie Phillips, Fitness Coordinator at 631-5965. _j
L 



----------~--------------­
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, March 29, 1995 
Women's lax ready for Indiana Tournament 
By MEGAN McGRATH Sports Writer 
A little jitters were under­standable for the Notre Dame Women's Lacrosse team this weekend at Michigan State. 
After all, the Irish were be­ginning their first year as an official university club and com­peting in their first major tour­nament of the year. The field of Pittsburgh, Michigan and Michigan State were all estab­lished, successful programs. 
A pre-spring break match with Women's Collegiate Lacrosse League-rival Toledo was about as competitive as an intra-squad scrimmage as Notre Dame cruised 17-0. 
So naturally, the team was a little nervous. Unfortunately, it showed in their first match against Pitt. The Panthers capitalized on <;t sluggish defense and jumped out to an 8-0 half-time lead. Notre Dame was able to recover in the sec­ond half, allowing just two goals. Freshman Eileen Regan put the Irish on the board with a goal late in the game to avoid the shut-out. 
But Notre Dame was able to rebound in the next game, edg­ing Michigan 6-5. Regan had three goals and classmate Colleen Reilly added two. 
The defense held the Irish lead late in the game as the Wolverines mounted a furious comeback. Sophomore goalie Catherine Simmons and junior point Carrie Eglinton were the primary stoppers. 
"I think the Michigan game was just an outstanding team effort." said junior captain Erin Breen. "With our all-out play we were able to show ourselves and people in our league that we can play with a competitive team of Michigan's caliber." 

In the final match, Notre Dame came back from a three­goal deficit in the second half to tie host Michigan State 9-9. Again Regan and Reilly led the way, with Regan scoring two goals and Reilly one to earn the tie. Senior Michelle McQuillan put Notre Dame on the board early with three goals. 
"We looked a little rusty in the first game," McQuillan said. "But we were able to get the intensity up for Michigan and by the end of the tourna­ment people were really work­ing well together." 
The Irish finished the week­end in first in their league, with a 2-0-1 mark and 2-1-1 overall. Next up for Notre Dame is the Indiana Tournament Sunday at Bloomington. 
Synchronized Swimming 
The synchronized swimming club will complete one of its most successful years in uni­versity history with its annual Water Show this Saturday at 7 
p.m. in the Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Under the leadership of presi­dent Megan Keenan, the syn­chro club stormed to a third place finish at the North Collegiate Zone Championships. 
"It was a real thrill for us to compete at Zones and perform so well," Keenan says. "Its the 

The Alumni-Senior Club is hiring 
BARTENDERS 
for the 95-96 season. 
Pick up applications at Student Activities, 315 LaFortune. Must be 21+by September, 1995. 
DEADLINE: March 31, 1995 
• ---------4 P.ltll. • TODAY!---------­
FREE SUBWAY &·INCH SUBS!* 

Free admission with NDISMC student ID 

Union Station 9pm --1 am $3 Entrance Fee Food,Cash Bar, DJ&Surprise Trip Raffle Buses from Main and Library Circle 
Tickets Available at LaFortune Information Desk 


highest a Notre Dame team has ever finished and it gives us real hope for the future of the program." 
The high finish means that all who competed at Zones quali­fied for the National meet. Unfortunately, due to funding problems the Irish will not be able to travel to the meet. 
Keenan admits that the team is disappointed, but says that they have focused their ener­gies on the upcoming Water Show. 
"I would encourage people who are not familiar with the sport to come out," Keenan says. "We are looking forward to showing our school what synchronized swimming at Notre Dame and St. Mary's is all about." 
Rugby 
Last weekend, the A side rugby team defeated an area all star team 42-15. The B and C teams lost, 12-10 and 35-0 re­spectively. 

Back Matt Reh and forward Michael Wyborski played espe­cially well at their positions. 
This weekend, the team will compete at Purdue University. "If we're confident, we'll win," said senior Pat Meko. 
The team practices everyday at 4:15 at Stepan Fields, and anyone interested is welcome to attend. 
Said Bryan Ritz, "I've played rugby for four years, and I've met some of my closest friends. I want to teach other people at this University how to play." 
Ultimate Frisbee 

Notre Dame's Ultimate Frisbee club has been doing some traveling lately. Last weekend, 15 members of the club team travelled to Terre Haute, Indiana for the Dirty Sock tournament. The club played four games in the tour­ney, and won their first game of the season against St. Olaf College in Minnesota. The team lost the other three matches by narrow margins. 
The win against St. Olaf was the first for many team mem­bers. Senior club president Tony Leonardo noted that the win, one of the few in club his­tory, was a nice building block for the squad. "We are a laid back club, but it's nice to win." 
"We would like to host a tour­
nament sometime within the 
next couple of years. It's fun to 
travel to other tournaments, 
but it would be nice to have one 
of our own." 
Water polo 

Captain Brian Coughlin may be a lame duck, but he isn't ready to hang up his Speedo just yet. 
As a three-year captain, the senior has always been in con­trol. But he has recently had to oversee elections of the new captains. juniors Walter Morrissey and Brian Wood and freshman Dan Toolan, who will head up the Irish water polo team next year. 
"Next year will be great, but we still have a lot of water polo to play this year." Morrissey said. "It will be good to have a bit of an interim period here, 
while  we  learn  from  our  
almighty  mentor,  Brian  
Coughlin."  

The leadership of Coughlin has taken Notre Dame to new heights this year, with frequent tournament appearances and the addition of a women's squad, which will be travelling to Bowling Green for a tourna­ment this weekend. 
The new captains are conn­dent they can keep the program moving in the right direction. 
"We're just happy to be a part of this team," Wood said. "But we're not going to just sit around with our thumbs some­where. We have some bright ideas that we hope will help keep the water polo team one of the strongest clubs on cam­pus." 
Mike Norbut, B.J. Hood, and Dave Treacy contributed to this report. 
Wednesday, March 29, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM MIKE PETERS CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 



Roger would go to any lengths to land this account. 
.. . . . 
.•. t!DF·•·I~RESti;····· Fi·.· 
·•The School of Architecture will be sponsoring a le~:tgr~ · led "Designing by the Book: Recent Work" Jll': ro 7 · of the Architecture . Building today at 4:30 

t i rts and Letters Career Day will be held in the 
•Jower level of the Center for Continuing Education today C1,'9m11:00 a.m. to 3:00p.m. 
,-::-~\f§l:.V·

er·your major today: from 5:00 to 6:00 p.m.' 
rman a,nd Russian will be in 115 0' Shag while gov­ernment will be in 120, and music in 103 Crowley. From 6:00.to 7:00p.m. peace studies will meet in 115 O'Sha.g, J..a.tin American Studies in 120 O'Shag, and the Mediterranean and Middle East concentrations in 114 O'Shag .• From 7:00 to 8:00p.m. American Studies will ·be in 115 O'Shag and Economics will be in 120 O'Shag . 
.~!~·· }/?. 
Ticket distribution for faculty, staff, and students for M~ya Angelou lecture will take place as follows: lottery numbers will be distributed in room 108 of LaFortune from 4:00 to 8:00 p.m. today. The lecture will be on Saturday/April 8 at the Angela Athletic Facility, Saint Mary's College at 7:30 p.m. Selected numbers will be pJinted in the Observer on Monday, April 3. ID will be ll;~~d.ed 8.IJ4 no more than two tickets per person. 

-•MENU 
South 
Veal Parmigiana \®'Green Chill Chicken Pot Pie Baked Beans Brussels Sprouts 
t~~~ 
··::·i'(w~;t;~M~s r;: 
.·.... 1,1.llkee Pot Roast 
/ Baked Uaddock 
Oven Browned Potatoes 
Please, Recycle The Observer 

DILBERT  
OUR ELBONIAN OWNERS 50LD THE COI"'\P/>.NY TO OUR BIGGEST COMPETITOR  
J ~  

~~~~--------~--~~ 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 26 Sweaters? 27 Frightful, In
1 Noted Lyceum slang
instructor 28 Evel Knievel, 
10 Polley e.g.
postscnpt 32 Sea birds 
15 Mexican dance musicians 
33 Pub missiles 

11 Dickens's-34 Garro! Heep "Tootsie" 
17 Say "WHATI?" 35 Alexander's home
1lltsy-­37 Be an ecdysiast
19 Funnyman Caesar 
38 Charges (at) 

39 Collar victims Interest 40 Cause to jump 21 Organizational 43 Bartlett, for one need 
20Centerof 
44 Synagogue 22 Yarn measure scrolls 23 Opening in the 45 Wilderness ice home 24 Splotches 46 Tender spot? 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~~F.4!:!-F+=+::-i ~~~,..l,;,j~'-=-~~ 1-:7+.~17­
r,::.+.~~~ ..;+::..j..;+~ 
49 Give the slip to 50 Sewing machine's inventor 52 Bowling Hall-of-Farner Dick 53 Like Poe's 
"Letter" 54 Twinklers 55 They're not 
there 
DOWN 

1 Book after Joel 2 Sitarist Shankar 3 Plenty mad 4 Army address 5 Uncle Remus 
story, with 
"The" 
6 Sinatra film "-Eleven" 
7Word in an Oscar acceptance speech 
a Shellac 
9 "C'-Ia vie!" 
10 Carmine 
11 Hunting dog 
12 The same 
13 Canvas prop 
14 Ditty 

22 Wheeler-dealer 

"SECTION N, />.1(\\CLE 12: .E'JER'{ SECR't\ ?L/>.1-1 NEEDS t>, S£CR8" C<JDt:. 
A.. 11\t. tiiO'K't. COMI'L\Cf\\t.\), 11\E BEnt.R. B .E'IER~BC\D'i r>.LREto..Di K~C\'tl'S ?IG LAliN. 
C. PHRA.'5'CS UI<.E. CC>I)EAA _BL\JE' ~COOL." 
.)I ':__'-'L I 
~ 

THEIR 1"\0TTO IS 
.; 
"AFTER YOU BEA.T
.!: ..• 'EM. HUt'\ILIAIE 
:;; u 
'E.Mn
. 
... Ill 
IT'S NOT VERY CATCHV. 
\ 
~ 

~----~~~~----~--~~~~-=~~~~~~~--__J
• 
38 Bumstead's boss 37 Affixes quickly 39 Having two X chromosomes 40 Does a slow 47 "Just-bit" burn 481981 Beatty film 41 For rent so Ecol. org. 
51 Top 40 song
42 Caribbean isle 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

24 Femme fatale Theda 
25-Hayesof TV's "Mod Squad" 
26 Helen's abductor 27 Dress's bottom 28 Infernal writer? 
29 Novelist Brittain 30 Showy flower 31 Edge 33 Guys' partners 
.. 


Thank You 

to the 551 students who took the "Safe Spring Break" pledge and to all the other students who made the conscious decision to n.Q1 drink and drive. We would also like to thank the following sponsors for their donations for the "Safe Spring Break" campaign. 
A 

The Country Harvester Pizza Company LaFortune Barber Shop Notre Dame Bookstore The Computer Store LaFortune Hair Stylists University Hair Stylists St. Michael's Laundry LaFortune Information Desk 


' SPORTS 
• BASEBAll 
Irish home season begins today 
By MEGAN McGRATH 

.. 
Spons Writer 
The Notre Dame baseball team is hoping the home is where the wins are as they open their home baseball season today at 4 p.m. 
The eightwgame homestand begins with Bowling Green. 
"After 19 road games we can't wait to play in O\lf beautiful ballpark,'' says Irish head coach Paul Mainieri. "I can't wait for this game. I'm so excited I'll probably get to the ballpark at six in the morning." 
Mainieri just might be try­ing to get ahead of. the crowds and assure himself a 
page 20 
Wednesday, March 29, 1995 

Irish hopes of back-to-back championships thwarted by Penn State 
By JOE VILLINSKI Assistant Sports Editor 
When winning is so deeply rooted in an athletic program such as the fencing one here at Notre Dame, third place can be hard to take. 
However, third place is what the Irish took on the final day of men's competition at the NCAA Championships, finishing below both Penn State and St. John's. 
The Nittany Lions won their first combined men's and women's championship for the first time since 1991 after fin­ishing second three straight years. Penn State sealed the title with 440 points, while the Redmen captured the runner­up moniker with 413 points. 
"I feel very good about win­
ning," Penn State coach 
Emmanuil Kaidanov. "It was 
undecided up until the last 
moment. With such tough 
opposition the fight was hard 
this year." 
No truer words have been 
spoken. For four days at the 
Angela Athletic Facility, some 
of the greatest fencers in the 
United States vied for the colle­
giate crown, giving the handful 
of spectators memorable 
matches. 
While the Irish enjoyed some 
memorable bouts. there are 
see NCAA I page 17 

'Early and often' the theme for Irish 

see OPENER I page 16 

Thursday, March 30 Friday, March 31 ND Baseball vs. Cincinnari, 4 p.m. No spons roday. EckSradium ND Softball vs. Bowling Green, Play hooky from school and hit rhe 3 p.m. ar Ivy Field links. Oh wair, there are no links to ND Women's Tennis vs. Illinois, hir. 3p.m. 

Wednesday, March 29 
ND Baseball: Home opener vs. Bowling Green Eck Stadium, 4 p.m. 

By MEGAN McGRATH 
Sports Writer 
The old Chicago political ma­chines used to encourage their constituents to "vote early, vote often." 
The Notre Dame baseball team put their own spin in this old saying as they were able to "score early, score often" en route to a 12-3 win over Indiana. 
The Irish (10-9) jumped all over Hoosier starting pitcher Brett Lewis for four runs in the first inning. First baseman Craig DeSensi led off with a sin­gle and advanced on outfielder Scott Sollman's bunt single. Third baseman Mike Amrhein singled to score DeSensi and Ryan Topham followed with another single. 
The hit parade continued as catcher George Restovich sin­gled Sollman home. Amrhein and Topham would score on fielder's choice grounders by 
J.J. Brock and Christian Parker. 
Dan Ferrell entered the game in the second, and the Irish continued to pound the Hoosier pitching. Bret Poppleton, earn­ing the start at second due to Randall Brooks' sprained ankle, led off the inning with a single and would later score on Sollman's double. A single from DeSensi and an inten­tional pass of Topham loaded the bases for Restovich, and he responded with a two-RBI sin­gle. 
Brian Green was next given the task of stopping the Irish hitters, but he also struggled, giving up two runs in the third. RBI singles by Amrhein and Topham put the Irish up 9-0 at the end of three. 
While the Indiana pitchers 
see BASEBALL I page 16 
Saturday, April I 
ND Baseball vs. Buder (2), Noon ND Track vs. W. Michigan (men) SMC Tennis vs. Valparaiso SMC Track ar Manchester ND Softball at Wright Srate 









