
Tuesday, January 24, 1995 • Vol. XXVI No.71 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• CAMPUS liFE COIJNCIL
Snowball 
fight leads to injuries 
By LIZ FORAN Associate N~ws Editor 
The Saturday night snowball fight in which many students participated left two students injured, aecording to Charles II urley. assistant direetor of Notre Dame Security. 
One student suffered a bro­ken arm from throwing a snowball, Hurley said, and a second slipped and fell while throwing another. resulting in a dislocated linger. 
uln past years, injuries have been worse," Hurley added. uThree or four years ago, a student was hit in the eye with a snowball, which caused a de­tached retina." 
Other students have been in­jured in the past by flying glass 
see SNOWBALL I page 4 

Freshman Register viewed negatively 
By EDWARD IMBUS 
News Writer 

The Freshman Register was dogged by suggestions of being used to show women in a derogatory manner during heated discussion at last night's Campus Life Council 
(CLC) meeting. 
A subcommitee on gender relations raised the question for CLC diseussion of how the "dog book" is used on campus in light of the many accusa­tions made this year of women on campus being portrayed or viewed negatively. 
Rectors on the CLC stated that they and their peers found the Register useful for identifi­cation purposes, the use the student activities office intend­ed it for in publishing it. 
However, the rectors also felt that students used it for a more derogatory manner. 

McLanahan to speak on child sup·port reform 
By ETHAN HAYWARD 
N~ws Writer 
With the current furor over welfare and, in particular, child support reform, the University has invited Professor Sarah McLanahan to speak on the issue. 
McLanahan is currently a professor of sociology and pub­lic affairs at Princeton Univer­sity where she specializes in courses on poverty and on soda! policy. 
McLanahan received her Ph.D. in sociology from the University of Texas in 1979 and taught at the University of Wisconsin until 1990. 
For the last ten years, she has been researching the caus­es and consequences of single­parent households. Her find­ings arc documented in her new book entitled Growing Up With a Single Parent , which is also the title of tomorrow night's lecture. 
McLanahan's research in­volved statistical analysis of 25,000 families. The research has determined that children from homes without fathers are statistically at a higher risk of negative outcomes in their adolescent and adult lives. 
According to McLanahan, children from single-parent homes are more likely than children from dual-parent homes to drop out of high school, to become mothers as teenagers, and to be unem­ployed as adults. 
McLanahan asserts that there are several causes of the problems that result from sin­gle-parent homes. She says that fifty percent of the blame for these results goes to the significantly lower income of single-parent homes, twenty­five percent to the inherent 
see REFORM I page 4 

Father Miehael Sullivan, rec­tor of Carroll Hall, noted that sections of both Du Lac and the University's Faculty addressed sexual harassment, and asked if faculty had read those sec­tions in class. 
Earlier in the semester, the Faculty Senate publicly encouraged faculty members to read the Faculty's policy on sexual harassment in their classes. 
The issue of softening the severity of disciplinary action was also raised, continuing from the last meeting. Last meeting, Student Senator Sean Sullivan proposed .that stu­dents not have their on-cam­pus housing privileges revoked for parietal violations until the third infraction. 
William Kirk, the assistant vice president for Resident Life, stated that "parietals are of great importance to the Office of Student Affairs." 
Defending our lives 
Last meeting, Kirk said that the proposal was difficult to support because University rules, as listed in Du Lac, allow the University to expel a stu­dent after his or her first pari­etal violation if Student Affairs determines it is proper to do so. 
Revoking the on-campus housing of a student in that sit­uation would "already be le­nient,:• he said in the CLC's December meeting. 
Moving on, the CLC decided yesterday to examine how much the extra study space that the CLC had acquired for student use was actually used in any significant amount. 
Last semester. a subcommit­tee sought and found several sites on campus for student use during final examinations, including classrooms in O'Shaughnessy Hall and the first floor of LaFortune Student Center. 
This semester, the subcom­mittee, headed by CLC Secre­tary Kate McShane. wants to assess the possibility of open­ing some of the study spaces for use throughout the entire school year. 
The subcommittee, read­dressing dorm room break­down procedures at the end of the semester, reached a con­sensus to amend the require­ments to allow students to re­move their carpets as they leave. 
University regulations now require that students com­pletely rearrange their rooms into the order it was initially found in. 
CLC Parliamentarian Tyler Farmer announced he plans to meet tomorrow with the ticket office regarding a possible football ticket exchange pro­gram. ' 
Poogie Sherer!The Observer 


Debbie Gardner spoke of self-defense in a lecture entitled "Learning to Defend Yourself Against Violent Attack" in O'Laughlin Auditorium yesterday. 



Business council provides 'real world' experience 
By DEBORAH SCHULTZ News Writer 
Hungry for real life .experi­ence in the business world, sophomore Rebecca Calice found her chance to learn in the Notre Dame Council on International Business Development (NDCIBD). 
According to Calice, the NDCIBD seeks to "help busi­nesses in the South Bend area who think globally and act lo­cally due to their ultimate mis­sion of peace through com­merce." 
Two businesses NDCIBD re­cently began to help are Clean Seal and Day's Dry Dock. An estimated 85% of businesses fail within ten years of their start because they lack a busi­ness plan, according to a December 21 article in The South Bend Tribune . NDCIBD attempts to solve that problem by organizing a business plan for young companies. 
Sophomore Tim Maxwell, the council's vice president of fi. nance, is presently working with the accountant of Clean Seal to help the financial end of their business plan. 
Working with the financial software program FISCAL, Maxwell trie's to "determine where the company stands fi. nancially and see how healthy it is for further development," said Calice. Calice, project leader in business services di­vision, mainly focuses on inter­national market research. 
The members of the council do the majority of the work on their own, although Professor Brain Aikens oversees the council's activities and helps them find companies to work with. 
"It is all hands-on experience and because of that I have learned so much" said Calice. 
Since it is a non-academic club, NDCIBD offers much to the companies that need them. Those involved are people who really want to take part in the club, which provides a great deal of continuity. 
Over the years the council has built a large depth chart, for once active, members want to stay involved, according to Calice. 
A high confidentiality factor also appeals to many compa­nies. Aikens insists on signing agreements, creating a more professional attitude, Calice said. 
Bill Dawson, vice president and general manager of Clean Seal, agreed with Calice saying that he was impressed with the two students he worked with and "if opportunities arise in the future, I would gladly work with students again." 
According to Calice, NDCIBD is mutually beneficial to both the companies and the mem­bers because it allows students to have experience in the real world. 
"I believe it helps students to work with an actual company going through a growing phase, instead of learning from a text­book" said Dawson. 
Members also have opportu­nities for internships, both in the United States and in nu­merous other countries. 
"About 70-75 internships are offered per year and the coun­cil helps to pay for airfare, so it is a great learning opportuni­ty," said Calice. 
Commenting on other benefits of the business council, Calice said, u you learn so much through trial and error and with the council I've been through a huge learning curve. Also, it is all a team effort so there are always others to help you out." 

page2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, January 24, 1995 
• INSIDE COLUMN • WoRw AT A GuNm: · 
Red's Rose deserves 

Hall 
Mike Schmidt was 
By Dave Ring 
voted into Baseball's 
Assistant New~ Editor
Hall of Fame just after the New Year's holiday. A Philadelphia mainstay at third base, Schmidt is deserving of his admission into baseball's shrine. 
But so too is Peter Edward Rose. 
And Mike Schmidt knows it. 
Baseball's pathetic state was only exacer­bated when the game's sportswriters voted Schmidt in, again ignoring Rose. 
Rose's banishment from the game seems ludicrous in light of what is happening in the game today. Several former drug users still play the game they were at one time expelled from. What makes a drug addiction an excus­able problem and a gambling addiction unfor­givable? 
And if Rose's ethics are in question, what about the ethics of most all players in the game today? Rose has admitted suffering from a gambling addiction and even served time for tax evasion. Yet none of today's money-grubbing players have spoken of their ridiculous greed which has brought this coun­try's national pastime to a halt. Why let any current players-when their time comes ­into the Hall of Fame? They are guilty of far more than betting on their own team. They are guilty of stopping baseball. 
Rose never stopped baseball. 
In fact, Rose loved the game perhaps more than anyone to ever play the game. Today's multi-million dollar prima donnas will never play the game with the vigor Rose did. Rose. would slide head first into third, sprint towards first base-when walked by a pitch­er-and exhibit a genuine hustle long since gone from today's game. 
He won the World Series in two cities, was part of one of the greatest teams in history (the Big Red Machine), and managed a team that plays in a stadium on a street called Pete Rose Way. Not to mention, Rose has 4,256 hits. 
4,256 hits. More than anyone else in the history of the game. 
Interestingly, the player whose hits' record Rose broke, Ty Cobb, was one of the most ill­spirited players the game has known. Rose never intentionally spiked second basemen like the former Detroit Tiger did. Cobb fre­quented prostitutes and paid off enemies to speak kind of him in public. It is true irony that this was baseball's first Hall of Fame inductee-he was judged on talent, not morals. 
Meanwhile, one of baseball's most deserving still remains neglected. Rose's only problem was getting involved with the wrong crowd for a short while in his life-an error in judgment he now admits. 
Schmidt, a former teammate of "Charlie Hustle" says he will invite Rose to his indue­
tion ceremony in Cooperstown. Schmidt says he will also wear a pin of Rose's immortal #14. Schmidt realizes that Rose deserves his place alongside other baseball greats (base­ball, not moral, greats). 

hi~~~g~~Vulo~;!ft~~~n~i; ;~:c:fi~~a~~\~~~v:: 
Cooperstown. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF  
News  Lab Tech  
Jamie Heisler  Eric Ruethling  
Gwendolyn Norgle  Production  
Sports  Belle Bautista  
Dave Treacy  Susan Marx  
Accent  
Viewpoint  Jenny Gunzelman  
Krista Nannery  Lisa Monaco  
Rae Sikula  Graphics  
Meghan Smith  Chris Mullins  


The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associared Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

March for Ufe rally held in Washington, D.C. 
WASHINGTON ''I'm a Yankee Doodle Dandy" and Hundreds of people waving signs, Legal abortion "Dixie ... Demonstrators planned to 

white crosses and red roses gath-march later today to the Supremeered in the shadow of the White Activists for and against abortion Court. House today to protest the 22nd rallied Monday to mark the Earlier, the National Right to Life anniversary of the Supreme Court anniversary of Roe VS. Wade, the Committee held a news conference decision allowing abortion. 1973 ruling that legalized abortion. to condemn violence at abortion 
Activists· on both sides of the clinics.
Number of legal abortions in 

issue were holding rallies, prayer "The pro-life movement opposes vigils and demonstrations to mark the United States, 1973-1988 = violence," said Wanda Franz, the the 1973 Roe vs. Wade ruling that '! IJ' 9' 21 !il II group's president. "I do not hesitate
1800 000

legalized abortion. The actual an-' ' to say that anyone who is truly pro­niversary was Sunday. 1,600,000 )ife could commit such an act of vio­"And the Cock Crowed" was the lence to protect the unborn. It is 
1•400•000

theme of the rally and march kick-sheer and utter hypocrisy." ing off from the Ellipse, behind the 1,200,000 Last year. some 35,000 people White House. The reference is to braved an ice storm to march Jesus' warning that before the cock 1,000,000 against abortion. President Clinton crowed, St. Peter would deny know-was the protesters' main target,
800 000

ing him three times. • with much of their criticism directed 
"What we see here is the denial 600,000 at the administration's health care over and over again of the humanity proposal. of the 'preborn' child," said Nellie Source: The Alan Guttmacher Institute AP On Sunday, about 50 anti-abortion Gray, president of March For Life. the group that orga-demonstrators gathered at the church where Clinton nized the rally. usually attends services. Some sat in a circle on the side­
"1 think what is happening is people are beginning to walk, while others waved white crosses and signs that understand that after 22 years, the pro-life movement is read: "Excommunicate the Clintons," and "Repent, not going to go away, and this issue will be resolved in Clinton." favor of the life of innocent human beings," she said. The president avoided the fray by attending a different 
Today's rally kicked off with a musical group singing church. 
Clinton praises bill as 'reality check' Judge cans tax on Girl Scout cookies 
WASHINGTON AUGUSTA, Maine 
Calling government elite and out of touch with ordi­The long arm of Maine's "snack tax" doesn't extend nary Americans, President Clinton signed a bill Monday to Girl Scout cookies, a judge ruled Monday, chiding the that will force Congress to live by the same laws it state for bouncing around on whether to impose it. im]poses on others. In an Oval Office ceremony, Clinton Justice Donald Alexander said the state was "arbitrary saftd the bill will help bring "a reality check to and capricious" when it changed its interpretation of the Washington." Heading the list of the Republicans' 6 percent tax and extended it to Girl and Boy Scouts. "Contract With America," the bill was the first measure Assistant Attorney General Dennis Doiron said he will adopted by the GOP-led Congress this year. It was confer with the tax assessor's office Tuesday before intended by Republicans to symbolize the end of the deciding whether to appeal. The judge noted that the privileged status for lawmakers. But it was Republicans state originally taxed the cookies at the wholesale level in the Senate who blocked the bill last year when and exempted the door-to-door retail sales because they Democrats tried to pass it. Struggling to recover from were considered "casual" sales. Alexander said the the Democrats' devastating election setbacks last scouts should not be treated .differently from other non­November, Clinton used the signing ceremony to reach profit groups that hold annual fund-raisers and should out to middle-class voters who have turned against him. not be penalized simply because their sales are "better Flanked by Democratic and Republican lawmakers, planned and more successful, or at least more visible." Clinton said, "We must use this impetus to make much The tax would increase the cost of a box of cookies from deeper changes in the culture of Washington that has $3 to $3.18 in central and southern Maine and from $2 too often disconnected it from ordinary Americans. to $2.65 in northern Maine. 


rvtental sports increase physical skill Governor pardons grounded child 
NEW YORK JEFFERSON CITY, Mo. 
Brain scans shed light on how people may improve Cody McGannon, grounded for one week, went their tennis or golf games by simply imagining they are straight to the top for a reprieve. The 10-year-old from whacking the ball. The mental practice turns on most of Gladstone, Mo., got a pardon from Gov. Mel Carnahan. the brain circuits used when a person swings for real. "I hope the authorities (your parents) are not too upset And that strengthens the brain cell connections needed with me, and that they decide to accept my act of to smash a winning ace or a booming drive. a researcher clemency in the same spirit of good will in which it was said. To choreograph something as complex as a golf or given," Carnahan wrote Cody. "Pardon granted." Cody tennis swing, the brain has to get "the whole system was grounded for telling his parents he didn't open his tuned up to make precisely the correct sequence of mus­bedroom window. He confessed in a handwitten scrawl: cle movements," Frackowiak said in an interview. "I really did so." "I lost every single privelage (sic) of Deborah Feltz, a professor of physical education and mine for one week and I think that is too long to lose my exercise science at Michigan State University who has privelages. I'm writing because I hope you will grant me reviewed studies of mental rehearsal, cautioned that amnesty on Saturday," the fourth-grader wrote. real practice helps more than mental rehearsal, and the Carnahan granted the pardon Friday and disclosed it to real workout has to come first. "If you never played golf Cody's parents Monday. "Of course, we explained to before, mental practice isn't going to help you because Cody that this was a one-time deal," said his mother, the brain circuitry isn't there yet," she said. "You have Elizabeth Jones. "He can't just get a pardon from the to have some groundwork laid down." governor every time he gets in trouble." 

• IPIJ*ANA Wenrm:r;
.----~ll_,_____n_~~;____________, 



The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, Jan. 24. 
Unes separate high temperature zones for the day. 
OHIO 
llndianapoti3 32° I 
ILL ~=:::. 
. 
p,.SSUffl 

H L a ESl rn:J 0 . (Z3 8 -!) u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE 

VlaAssoclatfldPrns 
Atlanta 53 37 Dallas 45 30 New Orleans 66 46 
Baltimore 28 24 Denver 37 17 New York 37 28 
Boston 40 33 Los Angeles 64 55 Philadelphia 39 26


~-~,~~~~~~~ 
Chicago 22 14 Miami 69 63 Phoenix 61 40

Showers T--storrns Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Columbus 26 18 Minneapolis 18 03 St. Louis 31 22

VIa Associated Press Graph/csNet C1995 Accu-Weather. Inc. 

--~------------------------~--~--~~---------------------------------------~------­
Tuesday, January 24, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
ND graduate Streit honored for achievements 
Special to The Observer 
The Reverend Thomas Streit, C.S.C., a University of Notre Dame alumnus, has received the 1994 Outstanding Young Investigator Award from the American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene (ASTMJI). 
The award is given annually to recognize excellence in re­search by young scientists and to encourage careers in tropical disease research. This year, 80 
scientists competed for the award. Streit was surprised by the announcement. 
"It was pretty stiff competi­tion. I was competing against so many others with more ex­perience," said Streit, who in May earned his doctorate in biological sciences from Notre Dame. 
Streit's award was based on his biological sciences doctoral thesis, titled, "Stabilized La Crosse Virus Infection and Transmission in Aedes albopic­swelling of the arms or legs up tus: An Urban Threat." to five times their normal di­
Now a postdoctoral research mensions. associate with the Centers for Some 300 million people Disease Control's division of worldwide suffer from the dis­parasitic disease in Atlanta, Ga. ease, according to George 
Streit will leave for Haiti in Craig, Notre Dame's Clark pro­January to work on control of fessor of biology. Once con­Culex mosquitoes and filariasis, tracted, filariasis is incurable, an infection initiated by para­says Craig, who calls it a sitic worms that can lead to ele­"ghastly tropical disease." phantiasis. Streit received a number of 
In filariasis, worms can infest awards while a graduate stu­human lymph glands, grow dent at Notre Dame, including larger and clog the glands, and "Best Student Paper" from the can cause extreme, painful Academic Mosquito Control Association and runner-up for "Best Student Paper" from the Entomological Society of America. 
A former rector of Morrissey Hall on campus, Streit also re­ceived his bachelor's in biology and master of divinity degrees from Notre Dame in 1980 and 1983, respectively. 
He was ordained a Holy Cross priest in 1986. Chaplain to the Notre Dame swimming team in 1985-86, he was also a coach in Notre Dame summer sports camp from 1980-85. 




"THE FINEST IN OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING" 
·FOUR AND FIVE BEDROOM TOWNHOMES ·TWO BATHROOMS ·SECURITY SYSTEMS ·KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE 
DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR, AND RANGE ·WASHER AND DRYER IN EACH UNIT ·GAS HEAT ·CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING ·PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT ·24-HOUR MAINTENANCE ·ONE MILE FROM THE NOTRE DAME 
CAMPUS 
NOW LEASING FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 


232-8256 
Recycle The Observer! 



page4 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, January 24, 1995 

Transcript of crashed plane's recorder released 
lhe slaying, one of several that . · 
By ALYSSA GABBAY 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH  
The captain screamed and  
the co-pilot said "God ...  no!"  
as a USAir jet spun out of con­ 
trol and dove about a mile nose  
first to the ground, killing all  
132 people aboard.  
A transcript of the cockpit  
voice recorder from Flight 427  
was released today, hours be­ 
fore  the  National  
f I  Transportation Safety Board was to convene a hearing into the Sept. 8 crash near  
I  Pittsburgh  International  
I  Airport. The hearing began with wit­ 
nesses saying there was no ev­ 
idence of an explosion on the  
r '  plane. In early  December,  the  
Federal  Aviation  
Administration released parts  
of the crew's communications  
with the airport control tower.  
Officials withheld parts of that  
tape out of compassion for the  
crews' survivors. Some sur­ 
vivors had criticized the deci­ 
sion, saying they had wanted  
the option of knowing every­ 
thing, no matter how painful.  
16 year-old  
gunman  
pleads guilty  
By ADAM YEOMANS  
Associated Press  

MONTICELLO, Fla. 
A 16-year-old accused of be­ing the triggerman in the slay­ing of a British tourist at a highway rest stop pleaded guilty today to a reduced charge of second-degree mur­der. 
Prosecutors were prepared to claim that Aundra Akins fired the shot that killed Gary Colley, but Akins accepted the plea agreement less than an hour before jury selection was to begin. 
Akins also pleaded guilty to attempted first-degree murder in the wounding of Colley's companion. 
He faces three to to 40 years in prison and will testify against another suspect in the 
slaying.
His lawyers had called the case weak. The state hasn't re­covered the guns and has little 
• physical evidence linking the . suspects to the crime .. 
• , Fotlr youths were char,ged.in 
·cast a shadow on Florida~s in­ternational reputation as an vacation spot . 
. . ·.., ·AU we,-e charged With fir~t­degree murder and attempted firs:t-degree murde,-lii die rdeath of the 34-year-oid 'me.. chanicat engineer and the wounding of his companion, Margaret Jagger, in 1993. 
The attackers approached the couple as they rested in their rental car at the highway stop. When Colley tried to back up the car to escape the holdup, two of the would-be robbers opened fire, hitting Colley in the neck and wound­ing Jagger, 36, prosecutors said. 
·t~'':~ · Mer Akins entered his plea, ~_; 1,:'> Jagge.l' said "I'm pleased it's ·····-~·~.'happened. I'm glad it's over 
' ""''~ /~th at the moment. .. 
, . _ . ,Wo of the teen-agers previ­. ··ously pleaded to lesser charges. The trial of the third 
~.. -ended in a hung jury in November. A retrial is sched­uled for March. 
The NTSB says it considers it standard procedure to release all the facts, and not withhold any details. 
The transcript released today, which covers cockpit conversa­tions rather than communica­tions with the tower, shows the flight was routine until the final seconds. 
Capt. Peter Germano sips a cranberry-orange juice and Diet Sprite drink 10 minutes before the crash and gives the cabin a standard weather re­port for Pittsburgh less than three minutes before the plane goes down. 
Then, 25 seconds before the crash, the pilots' desperate ex­clamations are heard as the wings begin to shake and cock­pit alarms sound. 
Germano says "Sheez" on the heels of three electrical clicks just before 7:03 p.m. The Boeing 737-300 rolls to the left and dives. 
Germano breaths heavily and says "Whoa" as a thump and some clicking is heard. Another click is heard and Germano says "Hang on." 
The co-pilot, First Officer Charles B. Emmett, grunts and 
JPW 
JPW JPW 
AU D I T I 0 N F 0 R 


L E C T 0 R s 
]an . 24th , 4:00p.m . Tuesday ]an. 25th , 4:00p.m. Wednesday 
BASILICA OF THE SACRED HEART 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111..1 
e.·........-........_...;a_... ~,music ....Play
::~> ,;. .. " 
·some 
· . · • . Applications available NOW in the Stude~t Union Board Office; 2nd Floor of Lafortune and are due by February 3rd 5:00pm with a Demo Tape. 
Questions: Call Kate x4828 or Grant xl620 

Germano says "Hang on." The autopilot is disconnected as the plane rolls sharply to the left. Germano says "Hang on." Emmett says "Oh (expletive)." 
Germano says, "What the hell is this?" Two warnings go off and a recorded male voice says "Traffic traffic" as the plane drifts within 1,000 feet in alti­tude of a smaller jet taking off from the Pittsburgh airport. 
That plane, a Blue Ridge Airways jet, is not believed to have contributed to the crash. 
A split second later, Germano says "Oh God. Oh God." Emmett ejaculates an expletive. Germano yells "Pull!" and Emmett, who is flying the plane, says two more exple­tives. 
In the final two seconds, Emmett says "God .... no" and the captain screams. 
As hearing opened today, two witnesses refuted a notion that an explosion might have caused the crash. That theory emerged after it was learned that a pas­senger on the jet spent the day of the disaster with prosecutors in Chicago, discussing testi­mony in an upcoming drug trial. 
Thomas Haueter, the NTSB's special agent for the FBI in chief investigator for the crash, Pittsburgh. He added that the said the cockpit voice recorder passenger was not a protected had no noises that could be as­witness and would not have tes­sociated with a bomb or gun­tified at the trial. shots. "There is no indication that 
And bomb experts found no there was a criminal act in­explosive residue, testified volved in the crash," Perry William Perry, a supervisory said. 


Refor01 
continued from page 1 
lack of supervision of the chil­dren, and the other twenty-five percent to the frequent reloca­tion of single-parent house­holds. 
McLanahan's research was cited frequently when the Dan Quayle-Murphy Brown debate on single mothers erupted in 1992. Both liberals and con­servatives on both sides of the issue quoted her findings. 
McLanahan recently ap­peared on the "American Agenda" segment of ABC Nightly News, where she pre­Seilted soltle of her findings on the consequences of children with absent fathers. She also testifies before Congressional committees on reform of child support programs. 
Professor McLanahan's lec­ture will be held tomorrow night at 7:00p.m. in room 141 in DeBartolo. The lecture is sponsored by the Provost's Dis­tinguished Visiting Lecturer Program and by the Depart­ment of Sociology. 


Snowball 
continued from page 1 
from broken windows, he added. Although a broken win­dow was reported at Zahm Hall, Hurley said Security did not find any damage. 
"There are reasons why we try to discourage (the snowball fight)," he said. "We don't want to see anyone get hurt." 
JPW 
s 

Tuesday, January 24, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Thefts and fraud rise rapidly in cyberspace 
BY MIKE MOKRZYCKI 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Intruders have learned how to penetrate sophisticated bar­riers and "hijack" computer systems linked to the Internet, posing a vast new security threat on the global network, authorities said Monday. 
Millions of computers linked to the Internet are vulnerable to theft and eavesdropping by people who use the new tech­nique, first described in an academic paper 10 years ago but known to be used suc­cessfully only in recent weeks, experts said. 
Intruders can gain "root" or top-level access to host com­puters, then copy or destroy documents or do other damage by masquerading as an autho­rized user on the host system, the government-financed Computer Emergency Re­sponse Team said. 
"Once the attack is complet­ed, it is difficult to detect," the team said in an advisory dis­tributed Monday on the Internet. 
An unknown number of attacks have been reported, said Tom Longstaff, manager of research and development at the CERT coordination cen­ter in Pittsburgh. 
"Even when you bought a security package for the Internet ... there is no securi­ty" from the new attack, Longstaff said. That's because the attackers have learned how to defeat hardware and soft­ware "firewall" defenses. 
An estimated 20 million peo­ple use the Internet. The net­work is expected to continue growing rapidly as a medium for commerce, with expanded use of credit card numbers and the introduction of "digital cash" -all of which increases the security threat. 
"There have been a lot of cases where credit card infor­mation has been asked for and given" on-line, said Sanford Sherizen, president of Data Security Systems, a consulting firm in Natick, Mass. "People might as well stand on a street corner and yell the information out, or get a plane and trail it in the sky." 
Happy 21st Birthday Paul Berrettini 
J11tSl~ @!® 
rmrr~ @rm®~ 
Mom & Dad. 


Clinton: State of the Union 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
President Clinton's first State of the Union address before a Republican-dominated Congress will get before and after coverage from television journalists, comedians and viewers at home. 
The address, scheduled for 9 
p.m. EST Tuesday, and the Republican response that fol­lows, will be carried live by broadcast networks ABC, CBS, Fox and NBC, as well as many PBS stations. It will be carried on cable by CNN, C-SPAN, C­SPAN 2, America's Talking and Comedy Central. 
Afterward, CBS will present "The State of the Union: The President, the Congress and You," featuring an on-line, in­teractive viewer poll. The pro­gram begins about 10 p.m. and will be anchored by Dan Rather and Connie Chung. 
NBC coverage will be sup­plemented by a special edition of "Dateline NBC" at 10 p.m. EST. 
C-SPAN will offer a preview beginning at 8 p.m. EST and C­SPAN and C-SPAN 2 will each have followup shows. 
America's Talking will pro­gram its own interactive forum with viewers afterward. 
Comedy Central's "State of the Union: Undressed," will in­clude commentary from Brett Butler, Dennis Miller and Kevin Pollack, as well as appearances by Phil Hartman and Henry Rollins. 
A special edition of "Politically Incorrect" will fol­low and include panelists Bob Costas, former Reagan aide Michael Deaver and conserva­tive radio talk show host Ken Hamblin. 
•
• 
The Notre Dame Accounting Association has invited Arthur Andersen to speak about the internship interview process 
tonight at 5:30p.m. in room 122 Hayes-Healy. 

Tallying Kobe's damage 

1. 
Seventh floor of building near JR Koshien station collapsed. 

2. 
Trains turned over at Sumiyoshi station. 

3. 
Hanshin highway bridge collapsed in Nishinomiya city. 

4. 
Section of Hankyu lmazu Railway fell onto Highway 171. 

5. 
Nishinomiya Bridge damaged. 

6. 
Sixth floor of Kobe city office building collapsed. 

7. 
Road in Higashi Nada ward collapsed. 

8. 
Building under high-level road In Higashi Nada ward collapsed. 

9. 
Eleven-story condominium in Nishinomiya city partially destroyed. 

10. 
Kobe Bridge damaged. 

11. 
Building collapsed in Kobe's Chuo Ward. 

12. 
Four-story building collapsed; 10-story Sakura Bank building and another building near Sannomiya railway station leaned over from damage. 

13. 
First floor of four-story hotel collapsed near Sannomiya Railway Station. 

14. 
Brick-made Kobe Eiko church in Chuo Ward collapsed. 

15. 
Buildings and residences near JR Rokko Railway Station partially destroyed. 

16. 
High-level road of Rokko Liner highway leading to Rokko Island collapsed. 

17. 
Aoki Pier at Higashi Nada-ku destroyed. 

18. 
Landfill under Rokko Island is 'liquefied.' 


Sources: Nihon Keizai Shimbun, Meteorological AP/Robertson Adams, Terry Kola Agency, Teikoku-Shoin Atlas of Japan 


German Neo-Nazis convicted of beating 
Associated Press Steve Erenhi in May 1992 at a 
disco in the village of 
POTSDAM, Germany Wendisch-Rietz, 30 miles 
A state court on Monday . southeast of Berlin. convicted three neo-Nazis as Erenhi was singled out be­accessories to attempted mur­cause of his dark skin. His at­der for encouraging the near­tacker, who has been sen­fatal beating of a 33-year-old tenced to 8 years in prison, Nigerian refugee. tried to break his neck, set 
The three, ages 19 to 21, him ablaze and attempted to were given suspended sen­drown him in a lake. tences ranging from 18 month Erenhi's life was saved only to two years. Their names by the intervention of others were not disclosed because at the disco, according to they were minors at the time court testimony.ot the crime. At least 30 people have been 
killed and scores more injured 
The three shouted "Ku Klux in attacks by extreme rightists Klan" and "Hang The Black since Germany was unified in Pig," as their comrade beat 1990. 
Join The Observer staff. Call 631 .. 5323. 



DON'T FORGET! 
~ SEATING l\'ttfor JPW tonight! 




MANDATORY 
4pm-9pm 
at the Center for Continuing Education Room 112 f There are three families per table. One student must present all three ID's at the time of registration. 
Questions? Call Shannon Kasten at 4-4559 
page 6 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, January 24, 1995 
''FUN, DUMB AND DUMBER'' 


A Look At Men, Women and Alcohol 
Presented by David Leschke-Hellstrom BACCHUS/GrAMMA Peer Education Network 
i . 
I 
I 
I 
I 
! 


WHEN: January 25, 1995 WHERE: 102 DeBartolo Hall TIME: 7 p.m. 
Sponsored By: Office of Alcohol and· Drug Education 
~~--~--~--~------------~-------~--------------~--~------------­
'-.... 

Tuesday, January 24, 1995 The Observer • NEWS 

Graduates relive college 
with a book in a cubbyhole this going to look on my re­Once anxious study overlooking frosty Seneca sume?'" Lake. He's re-enrolling, at age 34, Entwined in those fond mem­at his alma mater. At no
students return 
ories is the realization that the charge. university experience could In March, Hobart and William

to 'kick back' 
have been so much better. If Smith Colleges are inviting By BEN DOBBIN only his anxiety about getting alumni who graduated at least Associated Press his career on track could have five years ago to take tuition­been brushed aside! free classes, for as many GENEVA, N.Y. Now Cegelski, Class of '83, is semesters as they want, at the Looking back on his college being offered what he considers scenic liberal-arts campus on days, lawyer Frank Cegelski a chance to "kick back and the slopes above this Finger 
relives Frisbee on the quad and enjoy college for its own sake, Lakes town-provided there's winter afternoons curled up rather than saying 'Hey, how's room among undergraduates. 
The Graduate Attendee Program, apparently the first of its kind in the nation, could prove a shrewd marketing ploy. The private colleges recently started a four-year drjve to raise $75 million, and alumni


YTl'l A T 
contributions could spell the difference. "I don't know of any program that has offered this kind of a

untors 
compact with its alumni. I think it is unique," said Noah Brown of the National University Continuing Education Association in Washington, D.C.
.::J ' ' 
Blending fresh-faced potential with seasoned practitioners.
Auditions for LECl,ORS 
who retain a yearning for learning in an academic setting has been plotted for three
& INTERCESSIONISTS years. College President 
Richard H. Hersh said the idea
for JPW Mass has magic appeal. 
"Everybody sort of reminisces about their days at college and wishes they could do something like that again. When I say to
Tues., Jan. 24th & Wed., Jan. 25th alumni, 'Well, why don't you 
come back?'" The back-to-schoolers can
4pm at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
enroll for six courses a year; undergraduates take nine. They 
Questions? Contact Renee at 4-4870· cannot earn another bachelor's 
degree, but an official tran­script will be kept of their work. 
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
PRESENTS 


SARA MCLANAHAN 
PROFESSOR OF SOCIOLOGY AND PUBLIC AFFAIRS . 
AT 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 
"GROWING UP WITH A SINGLE PARENT" 
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 25, 1995 
7:00 PM 


ROOM 141 -DEBARTOLO HALL 
SPONSORED BY: 
PROVOST'S DISTINGUISHED VISITING LECTURER PROGRAM 
AND 


THE DEPARTMENT OF SOCIOLOGY 
page 7 

New beers marketed by major brewers 
Associated Press sure we expand along with the 
consumer." 
It appears to be where a good Perhaps most cogently, there part of the fun is for the big is this explanation from brewers as welrl._I_n_t_h_e_;p:.._a_s,t-=M_il_le_r_'s:__....:R~i:..:;c hard Lalley: two years, they "Businesses have been grow or shrink falling all over on the mar-themselves to gins." get microbrew-In a stagnant wannabe beers market, the on the market. main opportu-
The big ques-nities for tion is: Why'? growth are on 
Few people the volatile believe the fringes -in major brewers, this case, the who are geared 2% to 4% of the to megaproduc-market that has tion, can make fallen to mi-money on bou-crobreweries tique beers. and imports. 
''Hmmm,'' 

said Greg Head L_____
____: It's happen­of Coors, when asked why his ing in virtually every industry, brewery was devoting itself to not just brewing. New Product the likes of Marzen, News, another trade publica·Weizenbier, Eisbock and tion, estimates that more than Winterfest, its four seasonal 20,000 new consumer products specialty beers. were introduced in the United 
His answer: Coors can in­States in 1994. crease its overall volume by ex­So. Miller will continue to try panding its market, it can be to crack the microbrewery seen as a leader in the indus­market with products such as try, and it gives Coors' brewers its stout and Red Dog, a new 
il. chance to showcase their tal­beer designed to have a micro­ents. brew image and a mainstream 
Finally, he said, if American taste. tastes do change in a big way, Anheuser-Busch is also see­Coors will be poised to capital­ing red, as in Elk Mountain Red ize on the trend. Lager and another new prod­
As Tim Schoen, a senior uct, Red Wolf Lager. "We be­brand manager at Anheuser­lieve red beer is poised to be Busch, put it: "We are into this the next major growth area in business because of consumer the brewing industry," Schoen demand. We want to make said in a news release. 
Associated Press 

The top 10 best-selling beers in the United States: 1973 1993 
1. 
Budweiser 1. Booweiser 

2. 
Schlitz 2. Miller Lite 

3. 
Pabst Blue Ribbon 3. Bud Light 

4. 
Coors 4. Coors Light 

5. 
Miller High Life 5. Busch 

6. 
Schaefer 6. Miller Genuine Draft 

7. 
Stroh 7. Natural Light (Budweiser) 

8. 
Falstaff 8. Milwaukee's Best (Miller) 

9. 
Busch 9. Miller High Life 

10. 
Carling Black Label 10. Old Milwaukee (Stroh) 



INFORMATIONAL MEETING TUESDAY, JAN. 2_4.TH AT 7:CXJ P.M. 356 FllZPATRICK HALL 
The Irish Racing Team is an ND student pro­ject that develops and competes an electrically powered Indy-style race car. We are looking for excited students from all majors. Ifyou are interested in anything from producing videos to designing electronic systems, we can use your help. Contact Dr. Bill Berry@1-6102 for more infonnation. 

Tuesday, January 24, 1995

page 8 The Observer • WORLD NEWS 
Maria, who spoke on con­




BEGINNING FEBRUARY 7™
dition her last name not be used, is part of the robust, nontaxed "black" business sector that is estimated to account for 25 percent to 40 percent of the country's eco­nomic activity. Hungary's 
LEADERSHIP 
INSTITUTE 
total output of goods and services was worth about $42 billion in 1994. 
A hairdresser in a hotel, Maria declares only her monthly base salary of 10,000 forints, about $90. That exempts her from any personal income tax, but 
an opportunity for outstanding 
Thesday nights from 
qualifies her for a basic 

freshmen and sophomores
state pension on retirement. 

7:00pm to 8:30pm in the 
If Maria declared her true 

earnings, boosted by tips to 

to attend a series of 
about $225 a month, she 

Notre Dame Room 
could be forced to pay up to 

leadership development seminars 
35 percent in taxes. 
But Maria says she could 

not make a full declaration 
even if she wanted to. Her 

Applications must be returned to the 
employer would not allow it 
Student Activities Office by January 31.
because he would have to pay higher social security 
For an application and/or more information, taxes. Employers pay a tax 
contact the Student Activities Office, at 631-7308,
of about 50 percent on their workers' wages. 
315 LaFortune Student Center. 


Mexican president
Hungary 


reshuffles cabinet
struggling 
now called Socialists, is try­ing to rein in spending. It says it will lay off public employees, force consumers to pay more for electricity and other utilities and sell off more state-owned busi­

THURSDAY, 8:30 DOOLEY RM. (LAFORTUNE) 
nesses. 
HOW THE N.D. ALUMNI NETWORK CAN HELP 
Horn also is seeking ways 
YOU.
to boost tax revenues for essential services. 
S.A.R.G. SCAVENGER HUNT 
A personal income tax 

clue #2· Those champs. You could
was not introduced until 
..:.:::.=.;::;....:.:...=.::..• always find them here. 
1988, just before the col­lapse of communism, and tax cheating has become a When found, turn the treasure in to the Alumni Office 
big problem. It forces high 
(Rm. 201 Main Building) to claim the Cordless Phone. 
tax rates -35 percent on 
For past clues, stop by the Alumni}S.A.R.G. Office. 
incomes as low as 300,000 
See tomorrow's Observer for the next clue. 
forints ($2,700) a year ­which in turn encourage more cheating and keep state coffers empty. 
The political problems have aggravated economic woes. The Mexican peso has lost al­most 40 percent of its value since Dec. 20, and the stock market has been a roller coast­er in recent weeks, going up and down -mostly down. 
A smoldering Indian uprising in the southern state of Chiapas also has contributed to the cri­sis of confidence among in­vestors. 
Zedillo announced the shake­up of. his Cabinet on Sunday after ordering the resignation of Education Secretary Fausto Alzati.. who has been severely criticized in recent weeks for falsely claiming he had a doc­toral degree. 
A statement released by the 
presidency late Sunday also 
said Mexico City Attorney 
General Ruben Valdez Abascal 
was resigning for unspecified 
health reasons. 
The resignations mean three 
Cabinet members have stepped 
down since Zedillo took office 
on Dec. 1. 
Zedillo sacked Treasury 
Secretarv Jaime Serra Puche 
last month in the wake of the 
currency crisis. 
Zedillo moved Agrarian 
Reform Secretary Miguel Limon 
Rojas into the education job 
and Mexico City Assemblyman 
Jose Antonio Gonzalez into the 
Mexico City attorney general's 
post. 
Agriculture Secretary Arturo 
Warman was moved to the 
agrarian reform spot and 
Francisco Labastido, director of 
federal highways and bridges, 
was to take the agriculture job. 
The making of an economic crisis 
The Mexic~n financial malaise didn't come on sudde~ly, it was the ~e~ult of long-building pressures 1n the ~c~nom~. Last year, Mex1co found 1t 1ncreastngly difficult to finance a growtng trade def1c1t, putttng pressureon an overvalued peso. The government's decision l~st m~nth to dev~lue the currency, after insisting it wouldn't take such astep, threw 
ftnanc1al markets mto turmoil. 
The trade deficit grew... 
Mexico's current account deficit, 
1990-1994, in billions of dollars 
OL-~~----L_~~--~ 
1990 1991 1992 1993 1994' 
(estimated) 
·That put pressure on the peso... 
Pesos per dollar, weekly close 
since July 1 (Inverted scale) 

3.2~~
3.6 

4.4 4 :t=::::====;:jt= 
4.8 -h""+---­
5.2 
5.6 t;;;:==:;::==::::;.=~ 
6+riTh~Trr+rr~~~~rri 
July Aug. Sept. Oct. Nov. Dec. Jan. 
1994 1995 

Source:AP research, Secunties Industry Association, Mexican government 
AP I Jell Magness 









C~O?ST~CkS 
Chinese Fast Food 
Bo..-ed with the dining hall food? Ti..-ed of o..-def"ing pizza? T..-y something diffef"ent­t-lave CI-4:0?9T~CkS delivef"ed to yol-\1" do..-m 
Mon-Thl-\1"5 11a.m.-9p.m. F ...i & Sat 11a.m.-10p.m. 
r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------., 
I! C~OPST~CkS C~OPST~CkS I : CHICKEN COMBINATION 
1 J SHRIMP FRIED RICE (Sened with Egg RoD/Fried Rke) 1 J 
I 52.29 =~~52 79 I
I •IUYJ-Sueamt•SM~et& • I 
r . Reg.$2.79 Scx.rCttmn•KtrtgPaoamt Reg.$3.29 I
! ~mit 2 • Wrth Coupon Only • May Not Be Umk 2 • Wrth Coupon Only. Ma Not Be I 1 Combtned With Any Other Offer • expires 12-15-95 Combined Wrth Any Other Offer. expfres 12-15·95 I
l _________________________________________________________________________________________________j 
$1 set'Vice charge for orders "'"der $15 


with debt 
By MAUD S. BEELMAN 
Associated Press 
BUDAPEST, Hungary 

Like many Hungarians, Maria lies to the govern­ment about her income as a hairdresser to avoid taxes. 
The government, in turn, maintains high tax rates in an attempt to cover the rev­enue shortfall caused, in part, by tax dodgers like Maria. 
Under the Communists, tax evasion was not an issue. The government was content to see Hungarians work hard for any money they could get, hoping that would distract them from political dissent. 
But the Communists' eco­
nomic irresponsibilites ­
including borrowing heavily 
abroad in an effort to buy 
popularity with goods that 
the centrally planned econo­
my could not produce -are 
coming home to roost. 
Once touted as an eastern 
European success story. 
Hungary is struggling under 
a $27 billion foreign debt. 
trade imbalances, budget 
deficits and a stagnant 
economy distorted by popu­
lar public subsidies and 
underground business activ­
ities designed to avoid 
taxes. 
The government of Prime 
Minister Gyula Horn and 
other former Communists, 
Problems result from forced resignation 
By ANITA SNOW 
Associated Press 
MEXICO CITY 

President Ernesto Zedillo grappled Monday with his lat­est political headache, reshuf­fling the Cabinet after forcing the education secretary to resign for lying about having a doctoral degree. 
Political problems in Mexico's restive south simmered as well. The opposition in Tabasco state continued to press for the re­moval of the ruling party gov­ernor they claim took office through fraud. 
Leaders of the ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party in Tabasco said they sup­port a referendum asking vot­ers if they want new elections. But the opposition said it would not back the referendum unless Gov. Roberto Madrazo resigns, saying he should play no role in determining his political future. 
"We will accept the plebiscite once Madrazo is gone," said federal Sen. Auldrico Hernandez Geronimo, a mem­ber of the leftist Democratic Revolution Party. Hernandez was roughed up last week by PRI members who blocked highways to protest rumors that the central government would force Madrazo to step down. 

Tuesday, January 24, 1995 
The Observer • WORLD NEWS page 9 

British minister asks to ban livestock crates 
By PAUL AMES 
Associated Press 
BRUSSELS, Belgium 

After weeks of protests by animal rights activists, Britain's farm minister asked the European Union on Monday to ban the practice of raising veal calves in small crates. 
William Waldegrave asked agriculture ministers from the other 14 EU nations to join Britain in outlawing the "abhorrent" veal crates and called for EU limits on journey times for livestock headed to slaughter. 
The British government has been under pressure to prevent calves from being exported to nations still using the crates, which Britain banned as inhu­mane in 1990. 
Hundreds of animal rights activists have been demonstrating at British ports where live cattle are shipped ­making the issue front page news for weeks. Some of the protests have been violent. 
"We are !Jnder intense public pressure to take steps at the EU level," Waldegrave said in a letter to EU farm policy chief Franz Fischler. "I shall call on my colleagues to think again how we can ban this harsh and much disliked form of produc­tion." 
Britain cannot unilaterally ban the export of calves be­cause EU rules forbid such bar­riers to trade between member nations. 
The issue became politically embarrassing for Britain's Conservative government ear­lier this month after Waldegrave acknowledged some calves sold from his own farm ended up on the conti­nent. 
Britain exports about 500,000 live calves to the conti­nent, mostly to France and the Netherlands where they are raised in small, darkened crates designed to produce soft, white meat. 
"Many people in Britain find that illogical and abhorrent. I sympathize with that view," Waldegrave wrote. 
The British minister was try­ing to persuade the EU to speed up a review on the use of those crates that is scheduled to be finis bed in 1997. 

Israel buries young soldiers 
By ARIEH O'SULLIVAN 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 
Stunned, embittered and enraged, Israel buried more young soldiers Monday than it had in any single day over the past decade. 
The government grappled with how best to deal with 52 deaths the past four months at the hands of Islamic extrem­ists, including 19 in Sunday's suicide bombing. 
In a rare televised address. Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin said clear boundaries must be drawn between the Jewish state and Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. 
"We want to reach a division between us and you. We do not want the majority of the Jewish population, 98 percent of whom live inside sovereign Israel and united Jerusalem, to be vulnerable to terrorism," he said. 
"We will divide between us and you and not according to the basis of the pre-196 7 bor­ders," Rabin said. 
Television reports said the government was weighing a security defense border be­tween Israel and the West Bank, under Israeli military· rule since the 1967 Arab­Israeli war. Rabin said a fron­tier heavily patrolled by sol­diers and police could be established within months. 
The idea brought immediate condemnation from Aharon Dombe, spokesman for the es­timated 140,000 Jewish set­tlers in the occupied territo­ries, saying the government was abandoning them. 
The spiritual leader of the faction that claimed responsi­bility for Sunday's bombing and opposes the September 1993 Israeli-PLO peace accord vowed Monday to continue the attacks. 

"The Jihad (holy war) against the enemy will contin­ue," said Sheik Abdullah Shami, whose group, Islamic Jihad, wants to destroy Israel and establish an Islamic empire throughout the Middle East. 
Shami spoke during a wake attended by about 200 people at the Gaza City home of Anwar Sukar, 23, one of two suicide bombers held responsi­ble for Sunday's double blast in central Israel. 
The larger Islamic fundamentalist group Hamas was more conciliatory than Shami, and renewed a call for a truce with Israel if it with­drew from the occupied West Bank and Jewish settlements. 
That's unlikely, said the health minister, a former West Bank commander considered close to Rabin. 
"We have chosen to fight and by all means. There are no limitations for the security services -a free hand. We have taken off the gloves," Efraim Sneh said. 
Israel radio said a close cir­cle of Rabin's security advisers decided Monday to extend a "special dispensation" for agents of the Shin Bet security service in fighting terrorism. 
The measures stopped short of right-wing demands to halt peace talks with the Palestine Liberation Organization, gain­ing increasing currency amongst a public losing its sense of security. 
"We have become hostages. There is no safe public place," said Tal Hanan, joining scores of Israelis stopping to light memorial candles and pray at the site of the bombing, 18 miles northeast of Tel Aviv. 
"We are saturated with empty promises. What kind of peace is this? We are sitting ducks." 
The suicide bombing at the Beit Lid junction near Netanya mostly killed and maimed teenagers doing three-year national service. 
Israelis, already shocked by the carnage of scattered body parts and bloody military kit­bags, woke to newspapers edged in black around 19 young faces. 
"The Children Who Won't Return," tolled one headline. "Tears of Rage," said another. Radio stations played melan­choly music echoing the grief engulfing the country. 
Eighteen of the 19 who died Sunday were soldiers. The bombing killed the most Israeli troops in one day since 29 died on a single day in Lebanon during Israel's occupation 11 years ago. 
In Jerusalem's forested Mount Herzl military ceme­tery. clods of earth thudding onto five coffins mixed with cries of "God protect us." 
At the funeral of Sgt. Maya Coopstein, 19, one of two women killed, three people fainted. A paratrooper captain sobbed dry heaves and a gen­eral hugged him and stroked his cheek. 

Peace on Earth 
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Holiday 1995 
Tuesday, January 24 
7 p.m., Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Interfaith Prayer Service 
A Prophetic Call for Change 
Sermon by 

Bro. Hugh Henderson, C.PP.S. 
from St. Anthony Parish in Detroit, a multicultural and multiracial parish. Popular preacher for parish revivals and renewals, Bro. Henderson has been featured in the Black Catholic experience on TV 
Shared readin9s and testimonials by Notre Dame students 
Music by 

El Core Primavera de Nuestro Senora 
Notre Dame Folk Choir Voices of Faith Gospel Ensemble 


... ~TV... ..t()N~~~... 
• ._If'\ ~IN~~... ...'~;r; N~ ~PI~ 
...\-."'rr AI I f 141 ~··· 
• LIFE AFTER fiNAlS 
Holy Father mere mortal, too 
At this point, all Pope John Paul II needs to be a typical overexposed celebrity is the cover of Vanity Fair. 
The Holy Father's book Crossing the Thresholds of Hope, is a best seller in more than a dozen countries. 
A recording of him saying the Rosary in Latin is a top selling album in Europe. That's right, people are shelling out their ues to claim that women are disqualified from priesthood based solely on their gender. How interesting. The Virgin Mary is good enough to be the Mother of God, but she would not be qualified to lead His flock. How does that work? 
• During the United Nations International Conference on Population and Development in Cairo last September, the 
shillings and ""!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!iiiil!!iiiil!!iiiil!!iiiil!!iiiil!!iiiil!!iiiil!!iiiil!! Vatican led 
francs to lis--a movement ten to His to block a H 0 lines s plan calling
Paul 

r e c i t e on the na­prayers in tions to Latin. spend $17
And, Pearson 

in a year billion an-where the nually by low comedy the year 
of scandals ----=======---2000 
on 

dominated curbing an the headlines, Time magazine explosive global population named him its 1994 Man of the boom until the statement "in no Year, a dubious title at best. case should abortion be pro­Remember, past recipients of moted as a method of family that title have included Adolf planning" was added.. If that Hitler, Deng Xiopeng, George sentence had not been inserted, Bush and Ted Turner. he would have prevented the This Pope has enjoyed a me-plan from passing altogether. dia blitz which his predecessors Is it a mortal sin to question could not possibly imagine. His Pope John Paul II? Will this message can be sent literally to column land me a seat next to every man, woman and child on the Ayatollah Khomeini in hell? the planet. To quote the Time Or is it only evil when it is article, he has "the world's done while this Holy Father is bully-est pulpit." still alive? In my Church his-
Here are a few details His tory classes, both in high school Holiness' paparazzi would pre-and at Notre Dame, I remember fer we forget: teachers talking about popes 
• 
The Vatican was the only who strayed from Jesus' teach­nation to recognize the "legiti-ings in many horrible ways, macy" of the Haitian military even popes who sired children government of Raoul Cedras. It and sold forgiveness of sins to demanded that Jean-Bertrand the highest bidder. Aristide give up his priesthood Last time I checked, none of before he could become my teachers had been struck by President of the Caribbean na-lightning. tion. It is a mistake for us to sup­

• 
In both official and unoffi-pose that whomever the College cial writings, the Pope contin-of Cardinals chooses to lead the 


Catholic Church is infallible in all ways, that everything he touches will turn to ecclesiasti­cal gold. 
John Paul II (previously known as Karol Wojtyla) is still a human being. He still can benefit from the counsel of his fellow human beings, religious and secular alike. He has a lot to contribute to the great debate of eternity, but his should not be the only voice that we listen to. 
Of course, Pope John Paul II is, at his core, a noble and hon­orable man. He forgave his would-be assassin, and he har­bors no ill will for anyone, even his most ardent of critics. (This is a quality Rush Umbaugh and Newt Gingrich would be well­advised to adopt.) 
John Paul II also has done more to reach out to leaders of other religions than any of his predecessors. He even estab­lished· the first diplomatic rela­tions between the Holy See and the nation of Israel, and he hopes to mend the 1,000-year­old schism between the Roman Catholic and the Eastern Orthodox churches before he is through with his work on earth. 
It's just so odd to see that a man who makes a big deal of praying at the tombs of martyrs like Oscar Romero and cries out against the evils of dictator­ships is using many of the qual­ities of a dictator in his job as Vicar of Christ. 
Personally, I can't wait until he's on "Donahue," so he can ask Phil why he doesn't wear his ND ring on camera. 
Paul Pearson '93 is a former Observer news writer who cur­rently works for a trilingual newspaper in Tampa Florida. He can be reached through e­mail at paulp7 4115@aolcom . 
Editor: 

before a.t~nding Yolanda King's lecture on Tuesday, I main · . .. • ·ofthe Golden Dome, wincing at with titles like "Columbus 
PoJsse:ssic~n ofthe New World." 
America is historically indis­our praise as a well-intentioned be clear. And yet Columbus 
of Notre Dame. can be proud of our ideologies and preju-

Ozersky strikes again 
Dear Editor: 

Having read Mr. Ozersky's latest attempt to flaunt his freedom of speech ("Hate me, that's why I'm here!" The Observer, January 19, 1995), I feel compelled to respond both to his arrogance and his complete lack of respect. 
Ueutenant Lekey is an officer in the United States Navy. He has honorably served his country for many years. He has placed his life on the line so that people, like Mr. Ozersky, may continue to enjoy the freedom to say what they want. Therefore, Lt. Lekey deserves a great deal of respect, especially from a student who obviously values the freedom which he provides. 
I wanted to address the use of some vulgar language; many probably would agree that he sounded more ignorant than intelli­gent. However, his use of the word Jewry (the Jewish people) and the context in which it was placed, went beyond ignorance. The use of a demeaning stereotype as a punch line for a joke is crude and tactless. I think an apology is in order. 
I do not agree with any of Mr. Ozersky's opinions. Yet I, along with every person in the military and every student in ROTC, have promised to give my life to defend his right to have one. 
JOSEPH QUAST 
Sophomore 
St. Edward's Hall 

•  DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  
7H& PR&SS, 8.1?. .' 7HUJ?EAM Of/J-7. JOURNAU7M a/!U­/Je MJRKJNG {JAY ANflNIGHT TO 7RAO< tJS COUIN!  Y/3AH, YOU 60T APAI<TY OF24 REG6T&Rel? :r MY5TERJOUS, MIX/31?-RAa ?'  

• QuoTE OF THE DAY 
''Wereally need a kicker." 
-Coach Lou Holtz 

ACCENT 
Tuesday, January 24, 1995 page 11 
• MEDICAL MINUTE 
Wipe out those wicked wintertime woes 
By RYAN J. GRABOW 
N.R.E.M.T. 
Now that the snow and cold have finally arri>~ed here on campus, it's time to prepare for battle with Jack Frost and the harsh winter weather that makes our bodies numb and our skin itch. The following tips should help you to have a more comfortable winter and keep your skin looking and feeling great. If you've already mas­tered the "nomad layered look" you're ofT to a good start. 
Winter Skin-
The dry, flaky, itchy skin that drives many of us crazy during these winter months is caused by three main factors: cold and windy weather, dry indoor air, and hot showers and baths. Cold and windy winter air holds very little water and causes moisture to evaporate from the skin. The warm air in our dorms, apartments, homes, and classrooms is very dry, but is capable of holding a large amount of water so it virtually pulls water from our skin caus­ing further drying. Finally, the hot showers and baths we take during these winter months are terrible for our skin because they remove the skin's natural oil that helps prevent drying. When all three factors are added together, dry skin is inevitable. 
What to do? 
Protecting oneself from win­tertime skin is not as difficult as it may seem. I) Always apply a moisturizer at night and in the morning to prevent evapo­ration. Any type will do, the inexpensive brands like Lubriderm or Vaseline Intensive eare work just as well as the expensive ones. When applying a moisturizers, apply two thin layers waiting five minutes between eaeh, rather than applying one thick layer which will mostly get rubbed off when you dress. 2)When washing use warm water instead of hot water which removes more skin oil. 3) Use soaps that are superfatted, sueh as Dove or Basis, which help to moisturize your skin as you wash. 4) After showering apply a bath oil to help seal in the moisture, then pat yourself dry, instead of wiping which removes the bath oil and the skin's natural oil. 5) Use a va­porizer to humidify the air in your room. 

Frostbite-of blisters, extremely painful are reddened or slightly Frostbite Prevention-from the skin which could con­
swelling, discoloration, whitish skin that is mildly tribute to the eooling the foot), 
Those bright red ears that blanched skin. or in the most swollen. For African Americans Preventing frostbite is very again ensuring that circulation you see around campus and in severe cases hardened purple or others of dark skin, mild easy. Wear a hat that covers is not affected. the line outside the 'Backer' tissue frozen to the bone. swelling is usually the only dis­your ears, whenever you will Wearing two or more pairs of are a telltale sign of frostbite, Since most of us are spend­tinguishing factor. If you have be outside for more than five socks and wedging your foot 
the painful and potentially ing as little time outdoors as been outside for a long period minutes. Wrap a scarf around into your boots will greatly dangerous condition so com­possible, the danger of being of time you most likely will not your neck and face to cover as impair your circulation causing mon on campus with the base­afflicted with a severe case of notice the pain due to the frost­much of your skin as possible. your feet to cool very quickly. ball eap crowd. Frostbite is frostbite requiring medical bite until the affec'ted skin Wear sunglasses to protect the Bottom line: master that caused by ice crystals forming treatment is not great. warms up. delicate skin around your eyes "nomad layered look." between the cells of the skin, However with wind-chill tem­If you do happen to get frost­from both the cold dry air as 
which grow by extracting fluid peratures soon reaching the -bite don't worry, in most cases well as the sun's glare off the Preventing winter skin and from the cells. Since circulation 20 to -30s, the danger of one's the only treatment needed is snow. frostbite is simply a matter of is usually impaired by this exposed skin freezing on a five rapid rewarming in tepid water Wear lose fitting gloves or common sense. With tempera­
swelling the potential for skin minute walk to class is very and aspirin, acetaminophen, or preferably mittens that allow tures being as bitter as they damage is great great. ibuprofen for the pain. If the adequate movement of your are, the only way you could Frostbite is rated in degrees affected skin blackens, feeling fingers, so that circulation is possibly look stupid is if you're like burns. It may be mild with What it Looks like-does not return after rewarm­not affected. Wear lose fitting walking around campus wear­only redness and minor ing, or blisters develop, see a boots with only one pair of ing a baseball hat with red swelling at the site or it may be The most distinguishing fac­doctor immediately. warm dry socks (wool is very ears, scratching as you go. more severe with the presence tors of a mild case of frostbite good at keeping moisture away Good luck and stay healthy. 
I 
I I 
I :._ I I 
I 
I I Supersonics ascend to the top Expansion Panthers sign I Capers as head coach 
I 
I despite surrounding chaos 
I 
By TOM FOREMAN Jr. job. Those talks, which oc­Associted Press curred while the Steelers were 
page 12 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, January 24, 1995 
•NBA •NFL 
ByJIMCOUR "This team won't collapse," Barry Ackerley. in the midst of preparations for I AP Sporn Writer Karl said. "We have too many Ackerley wants to win a CHARLOTTE, N.C. the AFC playoffs, cost the
I 
weapons. There's too many championship and he thinks The next chapter in the devel­Panthers a $150,000 fine and
I 
I SEATTLE guys. We've got too many good he's spent more than enough opment of the Carolina two draft picks. I It hasn't been an easy season players. For this team to col­money to get that done. Panthers began today at a news The league placed a morato­I for Seattle SuperSonics coach lapse, we'd have to lose four or conference to announce that rium on talks with Capers
George Karl. It just looks that five guys. We'd have to have Seattle had a league and fran­Dom Capers is the NFL ex­pending the completion ofI way. some serious injuries." chise-best 63 victories last sea­pansion franchise's first head Pittsburgh's season. It ended in I Karl was supposed to have son before being upset by No. 8 coach. the AFC championship game
I 
I Kendall Gill's agent has asked worn out his welcome in Seattle seed Denver in the opening Capers, whose work as defen­two Sundays ago, when the San I the Sonics to trade his client by now. He was fired in his sec­round of the playoffs. It was a sive coordinator of the Diego Chargers pulled off a 17­I because Seattle's starting ond seasons in Cleveland and playoff defeat that caused gen­Pittsburgh Steelers made that 13 victory. The moratoriumI shooting guard is unhappy with Golden State in the 1980s. He's eral manager Bob Whitsitt, last team among the stingiest in the expired at 6 p.m. Friday. I his playing time. Karl refused in his fourth season in Seattle. season's NBA executive of the league, was chosen to help the "It seems like the processI to start Gill on Jan. 10 at year, to leave the Sonics. Panthers embark on their first took a long time," Panthers
l,r-
Golden State because he missed Kemp and Payton haven't quit season.
1 president Mike McCormack told I a flight from Chicago and was on Karl. Instead, they're play­Whitsitt, Karl's good friend, "I feel like a sprinter in the The Charlotte Observer. "Butunable to make practice. ing harder than ever. Payton is was the buffer between Karl starting blocks. I can't wait to we followed it and it led us to having his best season and and Ackerley. get started." Dom. He's what we were look­
On Dec. 28, Vincent Askew Kemp will be an All-Star again. When popular Sonics assistant Despite his background, ing for." refused to enter a home game Gill and Askew may not like Tim Grgurich left before the Capers says his involvement McCormack said he was "veryagainst Philadelphia. Karl sus­Karl, but they're playing hard season to become UNLV's head won't be limited to the defens~. pleased" with the outcome of
I pended him for the next game. for him. Gill is the team's coach, Karl lost a buffer "A head coach has to have the 15-month search for a headI I All this after Karl bruised fourth-best scorer, averaging between himself and his play­knowledge and control of all coach, which began when the I Shawn Kemp's ego by trying to 14 points a game, and Askew is ers. phases of the game. I think it's franchise was awarded to 
trade him to the Chicago Bulls
I averaging 10.4 points off the important to have a hands-on owner Jerry Richardson on Oct. I for Scottie Pippen. Karl also bench. And when the Sonics got off to approach." 26, 1993. I hurt Gary Payton's feelings by a 3-4 start, a lot of people were Capers, who said he has "This is one of the most im­I publicly criticizing him for the The Sonics may not all like wondering if Karl would follow signed a five-year contract, said portant decisions we'll ever
Sonics' first-round playoff exit each other, but it's working Whitsitt out of town. there is no timetable for mak­make," McCormack said. "On against Denver last season. out. In retrospect, Karl said he ing the Panthers a winning
! Sunday afternoons, this is the Bill Cartwright, 37, has the wasn't worried with the way team. Carolina needs to work man, along with his staff, that Labeled Team Turmoil after perspective of 16 NBA seasons, his team played the first two under the principles of sound we'll turn things over to."! the franchise's chaos of last nine with the New York Knicks weeks of the season. planning and attention to detail 
Asked what he likes about spring and last summer, the and six in Chicago, where he and to do whatever it takes to Capers, McCormack said Sonics -as evidenced by the was on three Bulls' league title "I've never felt as negative as win, Capers said. "everything.';
I 
problems surrounding Gill and teams. the scrutiny of the press has "Dom is a good guy. He's a "We like his philosophy andI ~ been," Karl said. "It's like ev­good person," Pittsburgh cor­
Askew -still have internal 
the fact that he can communi­problems. "It doesn't matter to me that erybody has been pushing us nerback Rod Woodson said. cate," McCormack told The teams get along off the court or over the cliff. I don't even think "He treats his players well and Observer. "He's a football manYet they're off to a 27-9 start, 
not·," Cartwright said. "The we're close to the cliff." relates to his players well. from the defensive side of the including a 17-1 record in the only thing that matters is that Cartwright likes what he's That's the biggest key to being ball. He's very organized and Tacoma Dome, their home we play basketball on the court. seen in Seattle, adding the play­a head coach in the NFL." detail-oriented." away from home this season I think if everybody got along off loss to Denver may turn out Carolina already has paid a Under Capers, the Steelers re­while the Seattle Coliseum is really well, it would be kind of to be good in the long run. price for luring Capers away established a reputation for being rebuilt. strange." from the Steelers. Although strong defense built during
When the Sonics play Denver "Sure, everybody remembers league rules prohibited it, the their Super Bowl years. on Tuesday night in Tacoma, The Sonics are owned by one what happened last year," he Panthers received permission Pittsburgh finished the regu­they'll be shooting for their of the league's most competi­said. "So nobody wants that to from Pittsburgh to talk to the lar season ranked first in the 
17th consecutive home victory. tive and demanding owners, happen again." 44-year-old Capers about the AFC in total defense. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds 

Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
SKI RESORT JOBS-Hiring for Barefoot Bahamas Spring Break AT&T Cordless Phone, 2 yr waran-WVF1640AM Want to impress everyone at the many positions (including summer). Sailing Cruise! Free brochure tee, used one semester-for sale at NEW MUSIC FOR THE NEW next SYR by your dancing ability? 
NOTICES 

Up to $2,000+ in salary & benefits 1 (800)359-9808 good price-for info. call Melissa at YEAR-NOW ON THE AIR Join the NO/ SMC Ballroom Dance (Free ski pass, ski equipment, meal #1318 Club! SEMESTER JOB discounts). Ski/Snowboard instruc-
FOR RENT
earn up to $10/hr tors, lift operators, wait staff, chalet David Mamet's Each Thursday in the Stepan call 289-0704 staff, +other positions. For more Computer Monitor-Acer-lBM AMERICAN BUFFALO Center, we combine learning cool 
information call:(206)634-0469 HOMES FOR RENT Compatible-Brand New-$200-Directed by Stephen Susco dances like the jive, waltz, and Used Texts Cheapll Check out ext.V55842 NEAR CAMPUS Jim 4-1059 tango with lots of fun. Pandora's Books 233-2342 232-2595 February 2-4 (Thurs.-Sat.) 8:10pm Come by this Thursday at 7 or 8:10 NO ave & Howard st 10-6m-sat CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING-Washington Hall Mainstage P.M. to check us out, and see
TICKETS
9-3 sundays Earn up to $2,000+/month working Oakhill Condo for RENT which of the two classes is better on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com-for the 1995-1996 school year. Tickets are $3.00, on sale now at for you. Term Papers typed panies. World travel (Hawaii, For information call: 273-9438. ROUND TRIP PLANE TIC CHICA-the LaFortune Information Desk Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.). GO-ST.LOUIS FEB 1D-12 $65-(Those who participated in the 8:30 Spee-Dee Wordprocessing Seasonal and full-time employment 1, 2, & 3 BDRM HOMES NEAR X3236 Produced by the Notre Dame class last semester are invited to 
273-4824 available. No experience neces· CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW & NEXT Student Players stay for the instruction offered at sary. For more information call1-FALL. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272-9:20.) 206-634-0468 ext. C55842 6551 Selling BasquetB Sid Tix Booklet •• note : play contains harsh pro-Questions-Call Joe at 4-1763. 
ILOST & FOUND I 

50, 271-19-98 fanity and some violent/adult lWINS! LAW STUDENTS NEED themes ANYBODY INTERESTED IN 
FOR SALE
I lost a set of keys this weekend. If ENERGETIC AND RESPONSIBLE I NEED KENTUCKY GA's. CALL TUTORING 1ST AND 2ND 
found call x1456 STUDENT TO PROVIDE CHILD MATT AT x2153. GRADERS AT HARRISON CARE IN HOME 10-15 HRS/WK 1-year-old Sega w/ 2 joysticks and ROSES ARE RED SCHOOL IN S. BEND ON MON TO 3 YR OLD BOYS. GREAT Sonic 2 • good condition, killing my NEED 2 TIX FOR THE KENTUCKY VIOLETS ARE BLUE WED AND THURS AM, PLEASE 
WANTED 

WAGES. 1 WKEND NT. REQ'D. studies, $70 obo. Call Mark at 255-BASKETBALL GAME ON FEB. 12. THE OBSERVER HAS A CALL DOMINIC AT CLASS OF 96 
EDUC MJR PREF'D.272-4649 3545 CALL ERIN AT #4015 SPECIAL OFFER FOR YOU (1-5136). SESSIONS WILL END Spring Break! Bahamas Party BEFORE 10 AM. PROGRAM Cruise 6 Days $27911ncludes 12 HELP 1 Roundtrip airline ticket to Ft. I need two tickets for the Kentucky VALENTINE'S DAY is quickly STARTS ON JAN 30 Meals & 6 Free Parties! Great COMUTER BLUES Lauderdale 3/11 returning 3/16. basketball game. Call x4015 if you approaching and now is the time to Beaches & Nightlife! A HUGE ibm compat. 486/50 w/ cd Call X3704. $300, negotiable. have some!! I!! place a classified ad for your valen-Party! Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights need sound hooked to cd tine. All Valentine's Day ads will aim for the pins, not the people ... by Air & Hotel From $4291 Spring & basic tutoring after 6, jim appear in a SPECIAL Valentine's the way, how's the view from the Break Travei1-8D0-678-6386 Car -Buick Skyhawk'84, low 4 tix needed classified section of The Observer floor? 
STUDENTS NEEDED TO MAN-mileage, good condition,$ 1699, NOv. Kentucky on Tuesday, February 14. Florida's Spring Break Hotspots! AGE PAINTING CREWS, call Francois at 2345716 DESPERATE is your neck sore? how 'bout a little PANAMA CITY OCEANVIEW THROUGHOUT INDIANA, FOR call1845 You may place your classified massage?
I ­
ROOM WITH KITCHEN $129! SUMMER OF '95. GUARANTEED OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered Monday through Friday from Bam to WALK TO BEST BARS! Cocoa TO MAKE $3000. IF INTERESTED, at $85,900. First Floor location. 5 Duke GA's 4 sale. x3747 3pm. We are located on the third the balcony is just not very con-Beach (Near Disney)-27 acre PLEASE CALL 1-800-94-STU· Finished basement with full lavato-floor of Lafortune. Place your ad ducive for people watching, is it? Deluxe Beachfront Resort 7 Nights DENT. ry. Two Bedrooms and two baths $$$$ NEED KENTUCKY GAME now and beat the rush! $1591 Key West $2291 Daytona on ground level. Lease back to TIX. CALL MIKE @2n-1704 $$$$ don't deny it, we all know you Room with Kitchen From $12911-SUMMER JOBS pwner through May, 1995. Tulsa rocks! secretly love pink sheets :) 800-678-6386 Coed summer camp in Minnesota Call (616) 946-0700. 
seeks individuals to work as cabin PERSONAL great weekend my friends, we must Spring Break! Panama City! 8 Days & activity counselors. Interviewer Hockey Band Roadtrip trade gifts, play in the snow, & have Oceanview Room with a Kitchen will be at SMC LeMans 212195 and For Sale: Sansui Reciever, CD'S FOR ONLY A BUCK 1) Jen Radwan-Could your face hot choco more often. $1291 Walk to best bars! Includes UN·o O'Hara Lunge, LaFortune Technics 5-disc CD player, and COME TO WVFI'S SEMI-ANNUAL have been any redder? Free Discount Card which will save 213195 both days from 9am-3pm. three way JVC speakers. All in per-MUSIC SALE THIS THURSDAY AT (2)High-school cheer-9 times! fuzzy duck ... you $100 on foodldr1nksl1-800· Call Camp Foley at218-543-6161 feet condition. $500 or best offer-10:00 P.M. @ACOUSTIC CAFE. (3)NEVER walk through the drive­678-6386 to get application call X0640 thrul T minus 45 days & counting ... 
-~ ............... .i .. -......~ ................. ---... -.----....... ··-. . -. ._ ..... -.... 
Tuesday, January 24, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
•NHL •NBA 
Penguins outlast Panthers' Vanbiesbrouck Lakers snap Hornets' 
By JOHN PACENTI 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 

In the end, Pittsburgh simply wore out all-star goaltender John Vanbiesbrouck. 
The Penguins scored four goals in the final period, three during a 3:23 span, to beat Florida 6-5 Monday night and ruin the Panthers' home open­er. Joe Mullen led Pittsburgh with two goals and an assist. 
Vanbiesbrouck had stymied Pittsburgh with 17 saves in the first period and seemed more than capable of protecting Florida's one-goal lead, but by the final period he seemed weary. 
"After the second period, we said if we keep pounding him, it's his first game, maybe he'll tire," said John Cullen, who scored the first goal of the final period. 
Mullen started the Penguins' rally when he took a pass from Kevin Stevens in front of the 
net and slapped the puck past 
Vanbiesbrouck. That tied it 4-4 
at 14:55 of the third period. 
Nearly two minutes later, 
Pittsburgh moved in front when 
Martin Straka took a pass from 
Mullen and scored as he was 
falling. The goal, at 16:50, put 
the Penguins in front for the 
first time, 5-4. 
Pittsburgh capped the spurt at 
18:17 when Jaromir Jagr out­raced Panthers defenders and slapped the puck by Vanbiesbrouck, who didn't play in Florida's first game against the New York Islanders. 
Florida completed the scoring 
18 seconds later when Tom 
Fitzgerald pulled the Panthers 
within a goal. 
The Panthers pulled 
Vanbiesbrouck for an extra 
skater but were unable to score 
in the final minute. 
It was the second consecutive . game the Panthers were unable to keep a lead. They fell to the 
Islanders 2-1 on Saturday. They led 3-1 in the second pe­riod against the Penguins. 
"At one point they got every break possible," Vanbiesbrouck said. 
Against Pittsburgh, defense­man Gord Murphy opened the scoring, giving Florida a 1-0 lead at 17:02 of the opening pe­riod with an assist from Dave Lowry. Jody Hull's unasssited goal one minute into the second period put the Panthers on top 2-0. 
Mullen's first goal of the night, on a power play at 6:50, was matched by Florida's Scott Mellanby at 9:34 of the period, putting the Panthers ahead 3-1 lead. Pittsburgh's Luc Robitaille's goal at 13:11 set the stage for the Penguins' third­period fireworks. 
Both sides said the heavy-duty scoring was due to soft ice. An indoor fireworks show heated up the Miami Arena. 
Spring Breal< Setninars March 12-18, 1995 Experiential/Service Learning Ce11ter for Social Co11cerns  
APPALACHIA SEMINAR -Service Learning at one of ten sites in the Appalachian region -One credit Theology -Information meeting: Tues., Jan. 24, 6:30 ­7:00 PM MIGRANT EXPERIENCES SEMINAR -Work in the fields with migrant workers -Assist agencies that serve migrants -One credit Theology -Information meeting: Tues., Jan. 24, 8:00-8:30 PM ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES SEMINAR -Examine recycling, solid waste centers directly -Consider ethical aspects of environmental concerns -One credit, Chicago-based seminar -Information meeting: Tuesday, Jan. 24, 4:00PM WASHINGTON SEMINAR Our Violent Society -Direct contact with politice~l, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. -Service and political awareness opportunities -One-credit Theology or Government -Information meeting: Tues., Jan. 24, 7:00-7:30 rM  
Applications Available Now at the CSC Applications Due: Jan. 31, 1995  


home winning streak 
By TOM FOREMAN Jr.  jumper and a controversial  
Associated Press  three-point play in which  
Alonzo Mourning was called for  
CHARLOTTE, N.C.  foul.  
Nick Van Exel and Cedric  Johnson hit a 3-pointer with  
Ceballos each scored 26 points  60 seconds left, getting  
as the Los Angeles Lakers held  Charlotte to 105-102, but the  
off Charlotte 108-102 Monday  Lakers controlled the ball for  
night, snapping the Hornets'  the next 40 seconds, getting a  
home winning streak at 13.  pair of offensive rebounds en  
Ceballos had 10 rebounds, six  route to a game-clinching free  
of them offensive. Van Exel got  throw by Van Exel.  
off to a quick start with four 3­ 
pointers, and he had four  Divac finished with 11 points  
points in a 6-0 burst that gave  and a game-high 15 rebounds.  
the Lakers a 94-86 lead with  Mourning got 19 points and 13  
7:58 remaining.  rebounds.  
Larry Johnson, who led the  Van Exel's fourth 3-pointer of  
Hornets with 25 points, started  the first half helped slice a six­ 
a 7-0 spurt with a pair of free  point gap down to 57-56 with  
throw. Hersey Hawkins added a  29.3 seconds remaining. Joe  
pair of free throws and a 3­ Wolf scored inside with 9.3 sec­ 
pointer to get the Hornets to  onds to go for Charlotte's 59-56  
94-93 with 6:31 left.  lead at the break.  
After Van Exel missed a  Los Angeles started the third  
jumper, the Hornets had a  quarter with an 11-2 run to  
chance to take the lead when  overtake the Hornets and run  
Scott Burrell was fouled going  up a 6 7-61 lead. The Hornets  
to the basket with 6:10 left.  managed to cut it to 80-79 on a  
Burrell, a 68 percent free  free throw by Dell Curry, but  
throw shooter, missed both foul  Van Exel hit a pair of free  
shots and Vlade Divac made  throws with 37.5 seconds left in  
Charlotte pay with a 20-foot  the period for an 82-79 lead.  

InterVarsity Christian Fellowship Bible Studies friends, fellowship &fun 
7:00 p.m. Tuesday, January 24th at the CSC and 
7:00 p.m. Wednesday, January 25th at the CSC Everyone is Welcome -Bring a friend 
Questions? Call Mike at 634-1035 or Tamra at 634-2329 
LAST CALL! LAST CALL! LAST CALL! 

1994 STUDENTS AT THE TAJMAHALL 

SAINT MARY'S SEMESTER AROUND THE WORLD PROGRAM OPEN TO ALL ND/SMC STUDENTS 
CHALLENGING ACADEMIC PROGRAM FOCUSING ON THE ASIAN WORLD 16 SEMESTER CREDITS APPLICABLE TOWARDS CORE OR MAJOR REQUIREMENTS 
OPPORTUNITY TO TRAVEL AND STUDY IN MANY COUNTRIES OF FAR EAST, SOUTHEAST ASIA, SOUTH ASIA, EASTERN AND WESTERN EUROPE. 
COST: A SEMESTER'S SMC TUITION ,ROOM &BOARD PLUS A SURCHARGE. 
INFORMATION MEETINGS: 
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 25, 1995 7 P.M. HESBURGH LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
THURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 1995 7 P.M. SAINT MARY'S HAGGAR PARLOR 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION: DR. C. PULLAPILLY MADELEVA 336.SMC. 284-4468/4474 
~---~----------------·---·-­
page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, January 24, 1995 
;, 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll •Nfl 
New York Yankees owner Chargers arrive in Miami ready to win 
rumored to move team 
By KAREN MATTHEWS Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Mayor Rudolph Giuliani and the New York Yankees on Monday denied a report that team owner George Steinbrenner has told the mayor the club will leave the Bronx. 
"I wasn't formally notified, I wasn't informally notified," Giuliani said Monday night. "It wasn't hinted or suggested." 
The New York Observer, a weekly newspaper that concen­trates on local real estate and the arts, on Monday released a copy of a story it will publish Wednesday. 
The paper said Steinbrenner faxed a Jetter to City Hall on Jan. 12 formally notifying Giuliani the Yankees "will def­initely abandon the Bronx for a new home, possibly in New Jersey." 
The te'am's lease at Yankee Stadium, which is owned by New York City, runs through 2002. . 
"The Observer story is abso­lutely false, said Howard Rubenstein, a spokesman for Steinbrenner. 
Both Giuliani and Yankees representatives confirmed the mayor and Steinbrenner met Monday, but they said there was no talk of the team leaving. 
"They met this morning and discussed plans for Yankee Stadium in the Bronx," Yankees spokesman Rob Butcher said. "There was no discussion of the team moving out of the Bronx." 
The report quotes an uniden­tified member of the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority as saying. that a week after sending the Jetter to Giuliani. Steinbrenner inet se­cretly with members of the au­thority to discuss construction 
come to a free 

I I
LSAT seminar I 
Date: Tune:  Tuesday, January 37:30-9:30 pm  I 1'  
Location:  119 DeBartolo Hall  
+7.2 points* get a higher score 


Call: 1-800-KAP-TEST 
of a new baseball stadium. 

The reporter who wrote the Observer story, Charles V. Bagli, said, "I stand by my story." 
Giuliani, who spoke with re­porters outside the Gershwin Theatre, where he attended Theater Hall of Fame Awards, said it's "a false story. as I think Mr. Steinbrenner has made abundantly clear." 
Giuliani said city officials and the Yankees are in the midst of "very complex negotiations" and that the city has tried to address Steinbrenner's con­cerns about Yankee Stadium, particularly about the lack of parking. 
Peter Powers, the first deputy mayor, said Steinbrenner had breakfast Monday with Giuliani and city officials presented Steinbrenner with their latest plan for renovating Yankee Stadium. Also attending were Powers, John Dyson, the deputy mayor for economic de­velopment, and a member of Gov. George Pataki's staff. 
"He is studying that plan." Powers said. "He asked a lot of questions about the plan. He has his people looking at it, his experts looking at it." 
Powers said the subject of al­ternative sites was not brought up at Monday's meeting, nor at a meeting Dec. 14 at which an earlier plan for Yankee Stadium was discussed. 
Steinbrenner has long com­plained about Yankee Stadium and the surrounding, impover­ished South Bronx neighbor­hood. 
In an attempt to keep the team in its historic home, the city and state have hired the architectural firm of Hellmuth, Obata & Kassabaum, creators of Baltimore Orioles' widely praised Camden Yards, to de­sign a renovated Yankee Stadium. 

KAPLAN 

• As documented In lhe May 1994 Kaplan LSAT Perlormance Siudy coodueled by Price Walemouse. 
Come to a free GMATseminar 

Date: Tues., Jan. 31 Time: 6:30-8:30 pm Place: 117 DeBartolo Hall 

like to just go through the week, line up on Sunday and then remove all doubts." 
The Chargers have rallied to win two playoff games to get here, beating the Miami Dolphins 22-21 and the Pittsburgh Steelers 17-13. In those two games, thye've led for only 5 minutes, 48 seconds. 
"Really, we don't want to put it up to that coming into the Super Bowl," Martin said. "I think if we get behind in the game, that's to their advantage. It's a hard team to come back on. We've got to play ahead of them." 
Call: 1-800-KAP-TEST get a higher score
KAPLAN 
1-800-KAP-TEST get a higher score 
KAPLAN 

By BERNIE WILSON Associated Press 
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. 
The San Diego Chargers ar­rived for their first Super Bowl on Monday night, shrugging off the fact they're the biggest un­derdogs in the 29-year history of the game. 
The San Francisco 49ers are 19-point favorites to beat the Chargers on Sunday at Joe Robbie Stadium. 
"I don't think a lot of people wanted us to be here, but hey. we played physical football, and we played team football," said receiver Tony Martin, who will be playing in his hometown. 
"We're not here because of luck. We're here because we played physical and sent other guys home," said Martin, who was traded by the Dolphins to the Chargers in March. 
The 49ers routed San Diego 38-15 on Dec. 11. 
"We've got a feeling we can beat them," Martin said. "They're not an unbeateable team. Somebody beat them this year." 
The 49ers were an NFL-best 13-3, losing to Kansas City, Philadelphia and Minneso_ta, the latter in the season-finale in which they rested several play­ers. 
The Chargers started 6-0, best in the league, before losing five of their last 10 games. 
"We don't have any pres­sure," said linebacker David Griggs, who left the Dolphins as an unrestricted free agent. 
"We're expected to be de­stroyed on Sunday," Griggs said. "So if we are, we'll sit back and say. 'Hey. they were a good team and we made it to the Super Bowl. But if we beat them, then it's all that much more sweeter to sit around and say, 'We told you so, you guys were wrong.' That's so much funner. I love being the under­dog." 
Free safety Stanley Richard worried about finishing preparations while encounter­ing all the Super Bowl distrac­tions. 
"We're underdogs; it's been like that all year long," Richard said. "I think we play better as underdogs. We have a legiti­mate chance of winning this football game. 
"What's difficult now is we have to talk about it. I would 
AIR 


at the University of Notre Dame & St. Mary's College 
The Air Force is Hiring! Scholarships are available! Air Force ROTC is about learning leadership skills. training to be an offi­cer in the United States Air Force, helping your community, having fun, and most important of all, serving your country. 
For more details check out the Air Force ROTC homepage through mosaic in any computer cluster (http://www.nd.edu/-afrotc). 
So if you are interested in getting a scholarship and joining one of the best organizations in the world, then contact Capt. Richard Harter at 631-4674 or send email to: afrotc@darwin.cc.nd.edu. 
The St. Edward's Hall Players 
present 

Night of January 16th 
A Courtroom Drama Comedy Mystery 
by AynRand 

Performances are January 26,27, and 28, at 8:00PM, in Washington Hall. Admission is $4.00 per ticket. Tickets are on sale at the Lafortune information desk, and 
at the door. 

I •. 
T A R G E T E D T R A I N I N G is lhe most customized. flexible approach to GMAT study ever. 
...,
come to a free 

I
GREseminar ' I I 
Date: Tuesday, January 31 Time: 7-9 pm 
Location: 118 DeBartolo Hall 

Tuesday, January 24, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• WOMEN'S TENNIS •NBA 
Team splits dual matches 1-1 Cavaliers suppress L.A. Clippers' 
Special to The Observer The Cougars won at No. 2 and No. 3 doubles to win the match 
offense; Jazz disposes of Mavericks 
The Notre Dame Women's as Crabtree and Lord won for 
tennis team has started their season with an opening loss to BYU and a win over Boise State. 
Hanked at No. 15 in the coun­try, the team dropped its open­ing contest of the dual match season on Saturday by a 5-4 score to the No. 20 nationally­ranked Cougars. 
Notre Dame and BYU split the three singles matches as Irish No. 1 player Wendy Crabtree, the No. 26 player in the country, topped No. 21 Jennifer Saret by a 6-3, 6-1 score. Junior 1-lolyn Lord was victorious at No. 2 for the Irish while junior Sherri Vitale won at No.4. 
the Irish at No. 1 doubles over Saret and Jen Menefree. 
The Irish returned to action on Sunday against Boise State. Notre Dame rebounded from their season-opening loss to post an 8-1 win over Boise State, and evened its record to 1-1 on the season. 
The Irish were victorious in five of six singles matches in straight sets. The Irish also swept the doubles matches. The No. 2 team of Molly Gavin and Erin Gowen dropped the first set 6-3, but came back to win the next two 6-3, 7-6, for the victory. 

RECRUITING DATES: February 1, 2 and 3 at Career and Placement Services. Open to all majors. 
By CHUCK MELVIN 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND 

Tyrone Hill had 23 points and 14 rebounds and Tony Campbell keyed the decisive 20-2 run in the secdnd quarter Monday night as the Cleveland Cavaliers beat the Los Angeles Clippers 90-68. 
The 68 points were the fewest scored by the Clippers since they moved from Buffalo in 1978. They have lost nine of their last 10 games; their only win during that sp-an came against the Cavaliers in Los Angeles last Wednesday. 
Cleveland played its fifth straight game without starting point guard Mark Price and its second in a row without backup Terrell Brandon, both nursing sprained right wrists. The Clippers lost Malik Sealy to an injured right ankle in the third quarter. 
Los Angeles led 26-20 after shooting 71 percent from the floor in the first quarter. It stretched the margin to 30-20 early in the second before Campbell's nine points high­lighted the 20-2 Cleveland spurt that turned the game around. 
John Williams started the flurry with a short hook shot and capped it with a 15-footer that put Cleveland ahead 40­32. 
The Cavs expanded the lead to 49-36 at the half and led 73-58 after three quarters. Los Angeles never threatened in the second half. 
Sealy led the Clippers with 12 points, Charles Outlaw had 11 and Loy Vaught 10. 
Chris Mills scored 14 and Williams had 12 for the Cavs, who have held opponents under 80 points eight times and under 70 twice this season. The Clippers totaled 42 points over the final three quarters, includ­ing only 10 in the second quar­ter and again in the fourth. 
Jazz 116, Mavericks 111 
Karl Malone scored 28 points and the Utah Jazz outscored Dallas 18-4 in the final 4 1/2 minutes to defeat the Mavericks 116-111 Monday night for their ninth straight victory. 
The Jazz defeated Dallas for the 17th straight time. 
-A jumper by Jimmy Jackson with 4:36 to play gave Dallas a 107-98 lead. After a Utah time­out, the Jazz went on a 12-4 run with John Stockton driving the baseline for a layup to bring them within 111-110 with 1:42 to play. 
After Dallas' Jamal Mashburn was called for an offensive foul with 1:22 to play, Utah's Jeff Hornacek missed on a drive, but Popeye Jones of the Mavericks was called for a loose ball foul. 
Stockton then fed Antoine Carr on the right side of the key for a jumper which gave the Jazz a 112-111 lead with 41.4 seconds to play. Jackson was called for a double-dribble in the lane on the ensuing pos­session, and David Beniot made four free throws in the last 13.4 seconds. 
Jackson led all scorers with 34 points. Mashburn had 26, but was scoreless in the last 4:45. 
Carr finished with 22 points. Hornacek added 18, and Stockton had 12 points and 17 assists. 
Please, Recycle The Observer 
MANDATORY MEETING 
FOR ALL THOSE INTERESTED IN RUNNING FOR STUDENT BODYPRESIDENT & VICE PRESIDENT 
January 24, 1995 7:30pm Foster Room 3rd Floor Lafortune 
.... 

' l 
page 16 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, January 24, 1995 
• OlYMPICS 


Salt Lake City hopes to host Winter Olympics 
Rice ready to leave 
By STEPHEN WILSON "The fact is that we've had a At a news conference, Russian 
Associated Press 
LAUSANNE,Switzerland 

Salt Lake City is already talk­ing like a winner in the race for the 2002 Winter Olympics. 
As the established front-run­ner. Salt Lake City is virtually certain of making the cut Tuesday when the International Olympic Committee selects four finalists from the record field of nine candidates. 
The other likely finalists are Ostersund, Sweden; Quebec, and Sion, Switzerland. The win­ner will be selected by the full IOC in Budapest, Hungary. on June 16. 
Salt Lake City is bidding for the fourth time in 30 years. Four years ago, the city nar­rowly lost to Nagano, Japan, for the right to host the 1998 Winter Games 
Tom Welch, heading the Salt Lake effort for the second straight time, said Monday that the city deserves to be selected this time because it has com­pleted all the venues and pro­jects it promised during the previous bid. 
"We talked the talk in the last campaign," Welch said. "Since then, we walked the walk .,. In 1991, we had great plans. In 1995, we have made these plans sporting reality. 
"We have fulfilled every com­mitment we have made. I believe that ought to be and will be recognized by the IOC. I have every reason to believe that we will be rewarded by the IOC in June." 
If Salt Lake City loses, how­ever. Welch ruled out another bid for the 2006 Games. It's the first time he has explicitly done so. 
"We'll take a breather," he said. "We'll let someone else take the baton ... w~·u leave it to another time, another gen­eration." 
Welch said Salt Lake City has spent around $14 million on the last two bids and would be unwilling to invest in yet an­other attempt. 
privately financed campaign for the last 10 years," he said. "Every dollar we have spent has been privately donated. If we are not selected for 2002, it will be time to turn those re­sources to other issues." 
All nine bidding cities made presentations Monday to the 10-man IOC selection commit­tee. The panel wiH choose the four finalists Tuesday -by consensus if possible, otherwise by secret ballot. 
The decision is expected to be influenced greatly by an IOC evaluation report issued last month which assessed the tech­nical merits of each bid. The report gave Salt Lake City the highest marks, while Ostersund, Quebec and Sion also received positive evalua­tions. 
The other five candidates all received poor ratings. They are Graz, Austria; Jaca, Spain; Poprad-Tatry, Slovakia; Sochi, Russia; and Tarvisio, Italy. 
This is the first time the IOC is reducing the list of cities before the final vote. The move is de­signed to weed out weak candi­dates and to cut down on the costs of the bidding process. 
If successful, the IOC said it will consider using the same process for the 2004 Summer Olympics. So far, 12 cities ­including early favorite Cape Town, South Africa -have ex­pressed intention or interest in bidding for those Games. 
The new process met with a mixed response from the weak­er candidates. 
Russian IOC member Vitaly Smirnov, representing the long­shot bid from Sochi, said the system penalizes those coun­tries which don't have sporting facilities already in place. 
"Another l)Oint of view is that Olympic Games should be given to countries that are just begin­ning," he said. 
Welch said Sochi had a con­
vincing argument and could 
emerge as a "wild-card ele­
ment" in Tuesday's selection. 


SPRING

APPALACHIA 
BREAK 
MARCH 11-19,1995

SEMINAR 
The Appalachia Seminar during the spring break presents a unique service~ learning opportunity. Students travel to various st1'tes in the Appalachia rPgion: Kentucky, West Virginia, Tennessee, and Mississippi. They work at a variety of sites which examine the political, social, economic, and cultural forces influencing the Appalachian people. These sites !~<:"ItS on several issues i'1.cluding self help, housing construction, environmental well-being, rural !1ealth care, and race relations in Appalachia. Through physical labor and person-to-person contacts, students experience the cultural richness of the area and begin to understand and analyze th~ social forces that influence the lives of the mountain people. 
THE SEMINAR 

• 
Is a 1-credit Theology course 


• 
Involves orientation and follow-up learning 

• 
Presents the opportunity to work, laugh, and learn in with other volunteers. 


INFO SESSION: Tuesday, January 24, 1995-6:30-7:00 PM. 
(optional) At the Center for Social Concerns 
. APPUCA TIONS: Available at the Center Applications are due: Tuesday, January 31, 1995 
For further Laura Stolpman, 634-2145 or Shannon Dunn, 273-0741 information: Angie Appleby, 631-9473 Dr. Jay Brandenberger, 631-5293 

officials dismissed suggestions that the Sochi bid could be hin­dered by the nation's military campaign against the break­away republic of Chechnya. 
"The political events should not influence anything," Mayor Nikolai Karpov said. "If Texas was trying to separate from the United States, there would be a problem in the country but life would not stop overnight." 
Salt Lake City officials. mean­while, sought to counter the perception that visitors won't be able to find any alcohol in the predominantly Mormon city. 
"In Salt Lake City; most restaurants have licenses to serve mixed drinks," bid chair­man Frank Joklik said. "Liquor stores are plentiful. The policy is to have these substances readily available. If you can't get a drink in Salt Lake City, you can't be very thirsty." 
Quebec downplayed its two perceived main weaknesses: cold weather and the province's secessionist movement. 
Walter Sieber, a vice presi­dent of the Quebec bid, said there was only a 2. 5 percent chance of temperatures falling below -5. 
"For us, the cold is not an im­portant issue," he said. 
Mayor Jean-Paul L'Allier said the secessionist debate was part of the democratic process and would not hinder the orga­nizing of the Games. 
Sweden is bidding for the sixth consecutive time, and Ostersund for the third. Ostersund officials said their bid should not be affected by the proximity to the 1994 Lillehammer Games. 
By DENNIS GEORGATOS 
Associated Press 

MIAMI 
Jerry Rice says he's ap­proaching the Super Bowl as if it's his last game, and it just might be. 
"This is something I feel a professsional athlete goes through every year when the season is over," the San Francisco 49ers' great receiver said Monday. "The fire tha:t burns inside you is something you think about. 
"If it's still there, you come back next year. But if it's not, then it's time to walk away. I don't think I'd have any prob­lems doing that.'' 
Rice, who became the NFL's all-time touchdown leader this season, said he has made no decision. 
San Francisco coach George Seifert, whose team plays San Diego on Sunday for the NFL championship, seemed taken aback by Rice's talk of possible retirement. 
"That's the first I've heard any mention of that with Jerry Rice, but I don't think it's an is­sue right now," Seifert said. 
San Francisco quarterback Steve Young said he understood where Rice was coming from. 
"I think any time you reach a peak you think about it," Young said. "It's a natural thing." 
But Young also downplayed Rice's remarks. 
"He wants to set every receiv­ing record," Young said. "I know he's possessed to be the greatest receiver in football his­tory.' 
ACE 
Alliance for Catholic Education 
American Catholic Schools and the Common Good 
by Fr.Tim Scully, C.S.C., Vice-President and Associate Provost 
Tuesday, January 24th at 7:00p.m. Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
All interested applicants are encouraged to attend. 
-------~-----------~-~---~ ~ 
Tuesday, January 24, 1995 The Observer· SPORTS page 17 
• MEN'S VOllEYBALl • COLLEGE fOOTBAll• 
Irish spiked by Spartans, Cowboys defensive coordinator to bounce back against Flames 
be head coach of Miami Hurricanes 
By SHAWN HOCHSTETLER get anything going. Even when 
Sports Writer we did have some decent pass­Associated Press football for the last six years. ceived strong backing from es and I was able to get the ball and I feel at this point in my ca­alumni, boosters and both cur­The men's volleyball team to our hitters, we had already MIAMI reer that I would feel most rent and former Hurricanes 
continued their season over the 
dug ourselves a huge hole on Butch Davis, defensive coor­comfortable remaining in the players.weekend by splitting their two the scoreboard," explained Fry. dinator for the Dallas Cowboys, NFL either as a head coach or Miami officials interviewed matches. The Irish dropped The Irish gathered their sens­will be hired as the new foot­as the Dolphins' offensive co­Davis on Saturday in Dallas. 
their toughest match to date to es and concluded their week­ball coach of the University of ordinator." Stevens said. then in a conference call the powerful Spartans of end with an impressive perfor­Miami, ESPN reported Monday. Sunday.Michigan State at East Lansing mance against UIC dowsing The Fort Worth Star­
on Friday evening. They then them in three short games 15-Davis, a former Miami assis­Telegram and The Dallas Miami is believed to be rush­came back to capture their first 7, 15-0, 15-12. Sparked by the tant coach, was in Miami late Morning News reported ing to name its new head coach win of the season against the tough jump serves of senior Monday for the announcement, Monday that Davis listened to a by Feb. 1, when high-sehool
Flames of the University of 
John Vandemore, the Irish de­which is scheduled for Tuesday. job offer from Miami and talked recruits sign letters of intent to Illinois-Chicago Sunday after­fense sent the Flames' offense the sports network said. to Los Angeles Raiders boss AI accept college scholarships. noon at home in the JACC. hiding behind a snow bank. The Miami coaching job Davis on Sunday.
The Irish proved to be an easy "Our passing was much better opened with Dennis Erickson's 
Hoops
task Friday as the Spartans left today." said coach Hendricks. departure earlier this month Miami's phone conversation .. them in awe of their potent of­
"Our offense was able to run for the Seattle Seahawks. with Davis included talk of a continued from page 20fense. Michigan State needed efficiently since Fry had the five-or six-year. multimillion­
only three games to dispose of good passes." A message seeking comment dollar package that could in­fire it from the outside. 
the intensity-Jacking Irish 8-15, Errors were abound for the was left at the home of Miami clude a $1 million bonus upon "We're very concerned with
3-15, 11-15. The Irish ap­
UIC team as the Irish blocking athletic director Paul Dee. fulflllment of the pact, the Star­
their inside game, but they'repeared dumbfounded by the put up a wall at the net. Led by Hurricanes spokesman Rob Telegram reported. 
also a team that shoots it very way Michigan State mixed up freshman Andy Powell, the Wilson said the team had no well from the perimeter, plustheir plays and put the ball Irish blocking talent took the comment. "It'd be great to get the op­they can run," MacLeod said.
down with ease. "Inexperience Flames' hitters out of the game Cowboys spokesman Rich portunity to be a head coach, "They really give you the totalbit us in the rear tonight". com­early. "I was more relaxed to­Dalrymple said: "We haven't you know. and we'll just see 
package from an offensive
mented Irish captain Matt day. That allowed me to have heard anything official yet, so where all these negotiations standpoint."
Strottman. "We weren't pass­fun and make some huge we really wouldn't have any go," Davis said Monday in ing well and that opened the blocks." Powell moved well at comment." Dallas. "Hopefully. something 
KUROWSKI CLEARED: Aftergates for Michigan State's hit­the net as he put up seven tow­Earlier Monday, Gary Stevens, will work out extremely posi­
missing Saturday's game be­
ters." ering blocks for the Irish de­the offensive coordinator of the tive." 
cause of a mild heart problem,"Our passing was definitely fense. Miami Dolphins and presumed Irish guard Keith Kurowski has our downfall tonight". contin­"Our energy level was amaz­front-runner for the job, with­Stevens, the first person in­been cleared to play tonight. 
ued head coach Steve ing this afternoon," commented drew his name from considera­terviewed for the top Miami Doctors detected the problem.
Hendricks. "The poor passes 
Strottman. "We had fun while tion. coaching job and a former 
which ca·uses a rapid heart­made it difficult for our setter earning our first win of the sea­Miami assistant coach, was beat, and Kurowski has been to run our offense. Irish setter son." The victory over UIC was Stevens, who said he had in­passed over when the school on medication to treat it. He isChris Fry had a frustrating a step in the right direction for formed Dee of his decision, picked Erickson to become expected to play the rest of the match against the Spartans. the Irish, who now have 1-2 would like to be an NFL head head coach six years ago. 
season, though laser surgerylie put in an exhausting effort record going into their next coach. 
will be required to correct thechasing the errant passes all match against Miami of Ohio "I have been coaching in pro Both Stevens and Davis re-problem this spring. 
over the court. "I just couldn't Thursday evening in the JACC. 

South Bend 1717 E. South Bend Ave., South Bend, IN 46637 

., 
-· 
'tr~:i~~· Z\.' 
''. f:'?
:....
:~:r .!· ~;-;: """ ......· 
-'.'i­
:: ....:~.· 
~· 
.~ .. ,~
·J<~,.
;~~·.; '-, ··.· "" 
.. t" ·.r~, 
:.,!-" • • 
. 

.. 
Classes now1imlted to ~proximately 25 students•.. 
04 •• 

••' ....... j
:Jf'···r:,t ....!l"' • 
. ,:

.' ~~mr,:'~:,}::·· 

.: ~/, 
. ~'-·''
' 
i'. ~ ' 


page 18 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, January 24, 1995
.. 
• COllEGE BASKETBAll 
Red Storm falls to No. 2 Connecticut 
By JIM O'CONNELL 
Associated Press 
STORRS, Conn. 

Ray Allen scored a career­high 31 points and No. 2 Connecticut solved Syracuse's 2-3 zone in the second half and pulled away .to an 86-75 victory Monday night over the sixth­ranked Orangemen in a matchup of teams with 14­game winning streaks. 
The Huskies (15-0, 8-0) re­main the nation's only un­beaten Division I team and have the country's longest win­ning streak as well. They also have sole possession of first place in the Big East as the Orangemen (14-2, 7-1) lost for the first time since their sea­son-opener. 
The game couldn't have lived up to the hype and it didn't as the first half looked more like two teams which hadn't won a game in awhile. Connecticut committed 18 turnovers against Syrac.use's zone and the Orangemen had 11 turnovers. 
Connecticut -which won its 13th consecutive Big East regu­lar-season game, one off the record set by St. John's in 1984-85 -looked to be in trou­ble when Lawrence Moten hit three consecutive 3-pointers and Michael Lloyd added an­other for a 58-47 Syracuse lead with 11:43 to play. 
Then, as often happens with Connecticut's pressure defense and explosive scoring, things changed in a hurry. 
Allen scored six points -all on jumpers -in a 13-2 run that brought the Huskies into a 60-60 tie with 8:10 to play. 
Syracuse became the team that couldn't do anything right as Lloyd's 3-pointer was the Orangemen's only field goal over a 5:41 span. The Huskies took the lead for good at 67-64 on a 3-pointer by Doron Sheffer with 6:36 to play, and the sell­out crowd of 8,241 at Gampel Pavilion roared the rest of the way as the Huskies extended the lead. 
Kevin Ollie added 15 points, 11 in the second half, for the Huskies, while Donny Marshall had 12. 
Moten led the Orangemen with 22 points, while Lloyd had 21 and Wallace 17. 
Each team was hit with a technical foul in the first half under very different circum­stances. 
Moten was charged with a technical and a personal with 
9:07 left when he was called for pushing Marshall under the Connecticut basket. Moten was well ahead of the field and Marshall ran after him and tried to block the shot from be­hind. 
As the ball went through the basket, Marshall, who has al­ready been ejected from one game this season for fighting, and Moten were entwined on the baseline and official John Clougherty called Moten for the push. 
Marshall made two free throws to cut Syracuse's first 10-point lead to 25-17. 
The other technical was on Huskies coach Jim Calhoun with 7:33 left. 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBAll 
Replacement players just want a shot 
By NED KILKELLY 
Associated Press 
TRENTON, N.J. 
The Ryan brothers want to play in the major leagues -one for the money and the other for good. 
The Chicago Cubs rate 19­year-old Jason Ryan as one of their top 10 major league prospects, but he doesn't ex­pect to be called up this year ­and wouldn't want to go during the baseball strike. 
His brother, Sean,. is ready to go-now. 
"It's a job, plain and simple. I'm doing it for the money," said Sean, 25, who was ready to call it quits after five years in the minor leagues but now hopes to make it to the majors as a replacement player. 
Sean, once himself a top 10 prospect in the Philadelphia Phillies' minor league system, played four years of Triple-A ball and last year for the Thunder Bay Whiskey Jacks of the Canadian Northern League. The Whiskey Jacks own his contract through the end of 
r , 
I 
I .. I 
I 
t 
! 
'­
February, and the Cubs are try­ing to work out a deal to bring the power-hitting first-baseman to spring training in Mesa, Ariz. 
Jason is going there, too, but only until he gets his minor league assignment: either Daytona (Single-A) or Orlando (Double-A). 
If the Cubs' deal falls through, Sean said the Atlanta Braves have shown some interest. Either way, he expects to get a shot at the majors, although not the way he had wanted. 
"It's a bizarre opportunity. I'd like to make some money off it," he said by telephone from his home in Bound Brook. ''I've paid my dues ... It'd' be nice to get something back.'' 
The most Sean made in the minors was $1,900 a month in Triple-A. A replacement player will make $630 a day, and re­ceive a $5,000 signing bonus and another $20,000 when the contract is terminated. 
"In the best case scenario, over a whole season, I could make 140 grand (as a major league replacement)," he said. 
"We talked about it and we 
Register & Pay in Advance at RecSports 
Deadline: J 25 
feel it's the right decision. He has nothing to lose.... He was going to retire anyway," said father Tim Ryan. "It's a gift, it's temporary and then it's gone ... 
"He's given up the dream of making it. This is not making it," Tim said of Sean's route to the majors. 
After last season, Sean de­cided to go back to Rutgers University and finish the three semesters he needed for his degree. Then he planned to pursue a job as an electrician. 
"I want to get on with my­life," he said. "I've spent enough time trying to make it." 
The baseball strike provided one more chance, but if he's in a major league uniform on opening day, he won't be walk­ing out onto a field of dreams. 
•·I guess it's pretty cool to say you made it to the majors, but under the circumstances ... " He didn't fmish the sentence. 
• SPORTS BRiEFS 

BALLET-Instruction based on traditional Russian technique. Introduction to all levels with students being instructed ac­cording to their level. Semester-long course that meets Tuesdays from 6:30-7:30 PM and Saturdays from 10:00 AM-noon in Rockne Rm. 301. The fee is $35.00 and you must register in advance at RecSports. A demonstration will be held on Sunday, January 29 at 12:30 PM in Rockne 301. 
X-COUNTRY BEGINNER SKI CLINICS -Clinics will be held on the Notre Dame Golf Course and the cost for each clinic is $5.oo with equipment rental available for $2.00 additional. The clinics are January 28 at 
11:00 AM-deadline January 26; February 4 at 2:00 PM­deadline February 2. Register in advance at RecSports. 
DOWNHILL SKI TRIP -RecSports is planning a down­hill ski trip for Friday, January 27 at Swiss valley. Bus leaves the library circle at 5:00 PM and returns at 11 :00 PM. The cost is $27.00 if you need to rent skis and $18.00 if you do not. Beginner lessons available free of charge. Register and pay in advance at RecSpor~. Deadline is January 25. 
LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS-All proceeds raised from this event are donated to the St. Joseph County chapter of the Special Olympics. The date is Friday, February 3, but all teams must register by Monday, January 
30. For the name of your hall representative, call RecSports at 1-6100. 
CROSS-COUNTRY SKI RENTALS -Rentals are avail­able to students, faculty, and staff. Rent skis, boots and poles. Check out 4:30-5:30 on Thursday and Friday and 11:00 AM-2:00 PM on Saturday. Check in 4:30-5:30 on Friday andSunday and 11:00 AM-2:00 PM on Saturday. For rates and more info call Golf Shop at 1­6425 or RecSports at 1-6100. 
BENGAL BOUTS -training occurs daily at 4:00 PM at the JACC. Anyone interested should please contact Jeff Goddard at 2817-8041. 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE Mandatory meeting on WednesJiay the 25th. Meeting will be held in LaFortune, 3rd floor, Foster Room at 8:00 PM. Bring dues and insurance forms. Any questions call Molly at 287-7353 or Erin at 4-2770. 
NOVICE AND VARSITY CREW-There will be a meet­ing Wednesday night at 7:30 in 126 DeBartolo. 
CLIMBING WALL SCHEDULE­The Climbing Wall will be open for use beginning Sunday, January 22. The hours will be Sundays 2:00-5:00, and Tuesdays and Thursdays from 7:00-10:00. The climbing wall is located in the Rockne Memorial and anyone interest­ed in using it must attend an orientation session . 
LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS MISS-A-MEAL-Sign up in the dining halls at dinner on Tuesday, January 24. By sign­ing up you agree not to eat din­ner on Wednesday, February 1. For each meal missed, the Notre Dame Food Services will make a donation to Special Olympics. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paidposition: 
Advertising Account Executive 
Applicants should be looking for a great opportunity to gain valuable office and sales ~xperience. Applicants should have strong self-motivation, creativity and an interest in marketing and business. Anyone interested should submit a one page resume to Eric Lorge by 5 p.m. Thursday, January 26 in the advertising office, 3rd floor LaFortune. For more information, contact Eric at 634-1179 or 631-8840. 
FATHER EDWARD MALLOY, C.S.C. 
SPEAKS ON 
"THE VALUE OF A NOTRE DAME EDUCATION" 
Wednesday, January 25th 7:00p.m. at St. Edward's Hall 


Tuesday, January 24, 1995 
The Observer • TODAY page 19 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
MIKE PETERS 
CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
DILBERT 

CONGRATULATIONS, WALLY. 
::t§I'VE 5ELECTED YOU TO o 
< 

f.\EAD UP OUR CAMPAIGN ~ FOF\ ''UNITED CI-\ARITY '· ~ 
r.===~ ~ 
! 



/ 

BILL WATTERSON 
"I was under the impression that it was the restaurant that revolved." 
SCOTT ADAMS 
I. CI-\OSE YOU NOT ONLY BECAUSE YOU'RE THE LEAST VALUABLE ~EMBER 
~ 

OF THE GROUP, BUT ALSO 
i 

BECAUSE YOU'RE &0 .:: DARN PITIFUL ~ !1 
) :15 
~ 
g 

57 A little night music 59 More spooky 64 Bide -(stay a bit): Scot. 66 Vegas impressionist 68 Epsilon follower 691994film "­Lies" 10 Magicians' props 71 Part of Q.E.D. 72 Actress Lamarr 
Want to be a part of the 
73"-inthe Dark" 
most interesting and 
DOWN 
1 Cancer-causing compounds 
evocative Observer 
2 "Thanks -1" 3 After-shower wear 
department?
4 Toothpaste holder 5 Phonograph needle 6--di-dah 7 Lab assistant 27 Male flower part 42 Not moving 54 Steeple 
Check out Viewpoint.
8 Astral glows 28 Captain's 43 Distressed one? 58 Mideast missile 9 Field of insignia 
46 Lack 60 A.A.A. offerings achievement 29 Aleutian island 
so New York lake 61 Longing 



CROSSWORD ACROSS 
1 Hair lines 6 Neeson of 
"Darkman" 10Toewoe 14lnfluence 15 Chills and fever 16 Margarine 17 Renowned 
cabaret crooner 19Wee 20 Addison's 
literary partner 21 Marsh bird 23Geese 
formation 240netime 
Mideast in its. 21 Vacillates 28 Staircase 
adjunct 
33Water­("Wind in the Willows" character) 
34 Sandler of "Saturday Night Live" 
35 Designer von Furstenberg 37 Gay city 41 Harry Kemelman sleuth 
44 Flock of geese 
45 Singer Horne 
46 Black hearted 
47 Murphy, for one 
49 Portray as satanic 51 Electrical units 55 123-45-6789, 
e.g.: Abbr. 
56 "L'etat c'est -":Louis XIV 


ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-'-+'-'~=-! 10 Folding 30 Local theater, to 
51 Stun 62 Nevada town 
47-Across Variety 
52 Lawn 63 There's none for 
~~:......j 11 BaseballerTony 31 Drink 
equipment the weary 
12 Extend a 32Wandered 
Call Suzy Fry
-:+.:±=:-1-:::+.=-t subscription 53 Michelangelo 65 Dine
36 Dressed to the 

work 67 "Yoo-hool"
13 Poet Alfred 18 Like 36 Sitarist Shankar 
at 631-4541. 
.:..,..+:~+;.:..~ passengers 39 The Queen: 
Get answers to any three clues
during takeoff Abbr. 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
=+:::-e+=-1 22 Bounds 40Model 
...:....L::..L:.:.L::.J 25 Fit for a king Macpherson 5656 (75¢ each minute)• 
0 
• 

page 20 Tuesday, January 24, 1995 

SPORTS 
Irish ready to face Blue Devils 

Senior point guard and co-captain Lamarr Justice must continue his great play against Duke . 
By JASON KELLY Associate Sports Editor 

Duke's decaying season takes a detour tonight from the more familiar surroundings of Tobacco Road. 
Whether or not it will put the team back in the right direc­tion remains to be seen. 
Under interim coach Pete Gaudet, Duke has fallen to 9-8 after losing six straight games for the first time since 1939. 
Gaudet took over when head coach Mike Krzyzewski left the team in early January after suffering from exhaustion. Doctors said he tried to come back too quickly from presea­son back surgery. He will miss the rest of the season. 
But Duke must continue, as much as it would like to join its coach and take the rest of the year off. 
And it is Notre Dame's dan­gerous mission to battle the bleeding Blue Devils tonight at 8 p.m. at the Joyce Center. 
"Sometimes you lose a couple of games and it just builds. I think that's what happened with Duke," Irish coach John MacLeod said. "But they are a very dangerous team. This is not going to be a long-term thing with Duke." 
MacLeod can relate to 
Gaudet's problems. With a 
youthful roster and sometimes 
as many as three freshmen 
and a sophomore on the floor, 
Duke has learned the hard 
way that inexperience can be 
a colossal disadvantage in the 
competitive Atlantic Coast 
Conference. 

"It's the same system and the same approach to the game (as it is under Krzyzewski), but it's a young team that just hasn't gelled yet," MacLeod said. "We've been through that here." But Duke has a few veterans, too. 
Like senior Cherokee Parks, one of the best all-around players in the nation, averag­ing nearly 20 points per game. And, at 6-foot-11, he shoots 43 percent from 3-point range, second-best on the Blue Devils' team. 
Or Eric Meek, another senior center, who scores nine points and grabs nine rebounds per game. 
And, although the younger perimeter players like Jeff Capel, Trajan Langdon, Ricky Price and Steve Wojciechowski have been streaky, they can see HOOPS/ page 17 
Duke's dismal season got worse with the news that coach Mike Krzyzewski will miss the rest of the season as he continues to recover from a back problem. But despite losing six in a row for the first time in more than 50 years, Duke is a dangerous team. Seniors Cherokee Parks and Eric Meek provide a potent threat in the post and Jeff Capel, Chris Collins. Trajan Langdon, Ricky Price and Steve Wojciechowski give the Blue Devils a deep backcourt. Notre Dame generally comes to play against the top teams on its schedule, but the Irish also ocassionally provide the right medicine for an ailing oponent. 

• fENCING 
Irish fencing teams continue to dominate competition 
By JOE VILLINSKI Sports Writer 
For the Notre Dame fencing team, a second consecutive trip to Northwestern equaled victory as both the men and women kept their unbeaten streaks alive this past Saturday. 
After winning there last weekend, Evanston once again proved to be a springboard to start the season as the women improved to 9-0, while the men now stand at 7-0. 
Despite the results, men's head coach Mike DeCicco was not pleased with everything he saw at the meet. 
"Right now we are probably 70-80% of where we should be," DeCicco added. ''I'm hoping it was a case of the coaches not getting the team emotionally ready because I know we're a lot better than this." 
The women demolished Chicago(30-2), Lawrence(29-3), and Purdue(28-4), while downing Northwestern 20-12. 
With 38 wins in a row, the Irish are rapidly approaching their all-time mark for most. consecutive victories set at 42 from 1986-1988. The last loss for the current Irish squad dates back to a meet against Ohio State in February of 1993. 
The women's foil team was led by junior Mindi Kalogera who went unde­feated on the weekend at 12-0. Northwestern gave the Irish their only problem as Notre ·name eventually won 10-6. Kalogera was the only foilist to come out unscathed against the Wildcats. Captain Maria Panyi also chipped in 11 wins. 
"I think our women's foil team is pro­gressing very well right now," DeCicco said. 
Epee captain Claudette de Bruin fin­ished 5-0, while freshman Elizabeth Niboer posted a 14-2 record to complete the 4-0 sweep for the epeeists. 
As for the men, they beat Chicago 22­5, Lawrence 19-8, Northwestern 19-8 and Purdue 25-2 improving their consecutive win streak to 37. 
Senior Chris McQuade went 9-1 for the sabre squad, which also received nine wins from captain Chris Hajnik. Seniors Jordan Maggio and Conor Power lead the foil squad with records of 6-0 and 7­1, respectively. 
Senior captain Rakesh Patel topped all epeeists with a 7-1 mark that included three huge wins over Lawrence that helped the Irish squeak by with a 5-4 victory. 
For the men, things looked bleak for a while as both foil captain Stan Brunner and sophomore Jeremy Siek both lost to Wai Gen Yee of Chicago, who handed them their first losses of the season. 
However, each rebounded against Northwestern as Brunner was 2-0, while Siek went 3-0 helping to defeat the Wildcats 8-1. 
"When it looked like things were going against us, we started to pick it up," DeCicco added. "If you're going to be a national contender you have to beat people like this." 
Notre Dame now travels to Rutgers next weekend to fence Columbia, St. John's and host Rutgers. 

of note...
MEN'S VOLLEYBALL 
Rumors spread that the New York Yankees may leave the Bronx. 
Notre Dame at 1-2 after splitting two matches 
last weekend. SEEPAGE 17 
see page 14 
MEN'S VOLLEYBALL 







