


Wednesday, October 11, 1995• Vol. XXVII No. 38 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• HALL PRESIDENTs' CouNCIL
Malloy: ND to advance as 'top' school 
Dining hall 
President describes 
According to Malloy, there has been a status of the libraries. Two of the steps "bleak climate" for universities throughout dealt with increasing the amount of fund­the country in the past five to ten years ing that the libraries receives. progress to faculty which has forced them to resort to several In order to facilitate the gifts of endow­renovation cutback measures and to "return to ments, an office was established dedicated
By JAMIE HEISLER 
basics." While Notre Dame has not faced to the task, and as a result 15 collection 
Assistant News Ediwr 

to begin
the worst of these situations, the factors endowments were given within the past have had some impact on the University. year. In addition, the University has incor­
This is an important time for the By BILL CONNOLLY
"We have avoided the worst of these porated more money into the operating
University as substantial improvements News Writer 
extremes, but those portions are part of budgets of both the Hesburgh library as
have been made, and plans are being for­
our reality as well," said Malloy. Yet with well as the law library. 
The renovation of South
mulated that will make Notre Dame one of 
these challenges, the University has not The third step involved the decision to
the world's top universi­
Dining Hall and the continued
only addressed several necessary issues, convert Planner Hall into office space in
ties, claimed Father debate over the debit card
including improvement of the status of the order to free up space elsewhere for pur­
Edward Malloy, highlighted the Hall Presidents' 
libraries and of the graduate program, but poses including the development of collec­
University president, in Council meeting last evening. 
it also has selected three main areas in tions. This measure was funded by gifts 
Dave Prentkowski, directorhis annual address to the 
which the potential exists to elevate Notre from two families which will allow for the
faculty. of the Notre Dame Food
Dame to an even higher place of respect in construction of two additional male dorms
In the address, Malloy Services, and sophomore
the academic world. on the West Quad. 
Brendan Kelly, the student
first gave updates on the 
In his faculty address last year, Malloy The graduate program has received the 
government representative to
progress made by the 
stated plans of the University to establish attention of the University in the past year 
University in the improve-Malloy NDFS, introduced NDFS's ini­
committees that would not only evaluate as well especially in the areas of increased 
tial ideas for remodeling South ments of the libraries, the 
the status of the University's libraries and financial support and recruitment of top 
graduate programs, the financial aid pro­Dining Hall. The changes will
graduate program but would also offer its students, according to Malloy. The gradu­
grams, as well as the attention to priorities be made to accommodate the
suggestions for a path of improvement. ate school has received an additional
of the Colloquy for the Year 2000. He then new dorms on South Quad. 
The libraries were given attention $400,000 to its base budget to be granted
stated several issues of importance for the However, the changes will
because Malloy stated he was troubled that annually for the next five years. In addi­
not go into effect by the timefuture including the place of undergrad­
"reputational surveys suggested they were tion, the Law School and MBA program will 
uate teaching, the build-up of foreign stud­classes commence in the fall of
·underdeveloped." As a result of the com­be receiving additional funding in order to 
1996. As a result, the trafficies programs, and the need for continued mittee's findings, three steps have beenAffirmative Action goals. 
taken within the past year to improve the see MALLOY I page 4 see HPC I page 6 

Ribbons support homosexuals 
promote homosexual aware­"Our goal is to create aware­
Hickey allows 
ness and education on the Saint ness and to educate and we Mary's campus, will be dis­aim to create an atmospheredistribution tributing the ribbons in honor in which people don't feel of National Coming Out Day. threatened by this issue. We on SMC campus The ribbons are symbolic of hope to get to a point where 
support for the day, according people are at least comfortable By PATTI CARSON to Carol Jones, member of PinS. with homosexuality," said Saint Mary's Editor The table is located in the Jones. 
LeMans Hall lobby and ribbons The group, which is not for­
In what may be the first move will be distributed between 10 mally recognized by Saint of its kind on either campus, a.m. and 6 p.m. Along with the Mary's, seeks education before Saint Mary's College will allow ribbons, PinS will be distribut­recognition. according to Max a homosexual support group to ing literature dealing with Na­Westler, Associate Professor of distribute purple ribbons on tional Coming Out Day, which English. campus today. has been recognized date on In keeping with its goal to 
When College President many calendars since 1988. educate, the group will be William Hickey was asked if the Since its formation last sponsoring a forum on October group could distribute ribbons, spring, PinS' mission has been 26 at 7 p.m. in Stapleton he said that "permission had to create awareness and educa­Lounge at Saint Mary's. been granted to set up the tion regarding homosexual ori­Entitled "In Celebration of table." Hickey was not directly entation. The group is cur­Gay and Lesbian Ilistory asked, however, whether this rently composed of nearly 15 Month: Telling Our Stories,"
The Observer/Brandon Candura 
constitutes recognition of the members of faculty, staff. and the forum will feature Bill
A night around the world 
group on campus. administration, and nearly 7 Storey, one of the founding 
People in Support (PinS), an students, according to Jones. members of GLND/SMC, who
Last night in LaFortune at tht "Study Abroad Fair," Jaime Feldman 
(right) explains to Julian Bruce the values of traveling abroad, 
, informal group of students, fac­The group meets weekly to 
specifically in Mexico. 
ulty, and administrators who discuss relevant issues. see RIBBONS I page 4 

McDowell sings for expression in campus band 
By JENNIFER LEWIS When McDowell would visit you like to sing, sign up for Assistant Saint Mary's Editor her brother at Wake Forest Acoustic (Cafe). That way peo­University, he encouraged her ple can hear you," said Saint Mary's junior Nina Mc­to sing with him in his campus McDowell. "I was really ner­Dowell is rocking her way to band. Having musical talent is vous about playing in Acoustic; the "American Dream," as a one thing, finding a band to it's so much more personable. 
lead singer in Stomper Bob, a play in is another. McDowell Either people like your voice or campus band. started gathering information they don't." 
"Singing is another way to ex­about different' campus bands, McDowell had a lot of positive press myself. I think if I didn't circulating her name around, in feedback from her perfor­have music in my life. I would­case anyone needed a new vo­mance, and officially started n't be as happy," said McDowell calist. singing with Free Beer for five 
McDowell majored in music During McDowell's freshman months. Due to conflicting in­in high school; out of nine class year, she randomly met a mem­terests, the band split up. How­
periods, she had five music ber of the band Free Beer. ever, Tom Bradshaw (lead gui­courses. She plays the piano They happened to be in the au­tarist), Bill Ellingboe (rhythm and the flute, and was aetive in ditioning process for a lead guitarist and lead singer), and 
the jazz and classical ensem­singers. McDowell auditioned McDowell continued playing at 
bles in high school. Although and began practicing with the Acoustic Cafe. McDowell is an elementary band. She knew she could sing "It was a frustrating time for e.dueation .major she has .found during practice, but her final us," said McDowell. "We all re­
a new way to vent her musical test was at her first appearance ally wanted to be in a band talents. at Acoustic Cafe, singing the again, but we didn't have a 
"Being an education major is 10,000 Maniac's cover, "Be­bassist and a drummer." very time consuming," said Mc­cause the Night." Starting a band definitely Dowell. "I wanted to get away "Acoustic Cafe is a great comes from word of mouth, ac-from the structured lessons and place to meet students who are have n little fun." interest in forming a band. If see MCDOWELL/ page 6 

Wednesday, October 11, 1995
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 
• WORlD AT A GtANCE 
Rescuers dig into rubble of Mexican killer quake 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Quick tips for falf break 
''I'm sick of the dining hall. You can only eat Grade D but edible meat and par-boiled pasta for so long. Plus, that Eskimo Pie stuff is even worse than Yo-Cream." 
"Guys, I just want to let 
r:.
A 
you know girls hate p;<t . 'i@ ~ facial hair on guys." Tim Sherman "Girls, I just want to let Associate Sports Editor you know that guys real­
ly don't appreciate facial ________ hair on girls either." "South Bend is the armpit of the earth." These are just a few of the many malcon­tent musings that are usually put forth in the Inside Column. This space has turned into a nirvana of negativity, a window for whining, a cradle of criticism. Why? I know this place isn't exactly Eden, but sometimes I just have to sit back, rub the five o'clock shadow of my chin (God forbid) and wonder. If we complain so much, why are we still here? Are there any positives? Well, I'm going to go out on a limb and con­firm the suspected. There are indeed good things about Notre Dame. For example, it's tough to beat a crisp, fall home football Saturday or the sense of true community or even just the beauty of the campus. These have already been expounded upon, so let me take the time to discuss one that is more timely -the oasis of enjoyment of Fall Break. Fall breaks are good for mind, body, soul, and, depending upon your plans, maybe even tan and/or tolerance level. The key is to have plans. Don't panic if you still don't have any, there is plenty of time to throw something together. All you've got to is pick a slogan and go with it. You know, something like "Be young, have fun" or "Just do it" or, for Kathie Lee fans, "If you could see me now". Those slick ad guys don't get paid big bucks for nothing, there's some truth to their hackneyed haranguings. The point is, go somewhere. Anywhere. Home is always nice -good food, a warm bed, and most importantly, a chance to go visit all those friends who have classes to attend and tests they have to pretend to study for. It's·your parole, make the most of it. Chicago, though a bit mundane, is a also safe bet for some enjoyment. I know it's October, so Wrigley isn't quite an option, but the Sears Tower, the Chicago Stock Exchange and Chez Luis (tell 'em Abe Froman sent you) are worth the time. I kid you not, Cleveland might even prove to be a worthwhile destination as well. The new Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, "the Flats", and "the Jake" are definite must-sees. If that's not enough for you, a chance to visit the settings of both Major League and the classic Howard the Duck are not to be missed. Finally, I must put in a good word for my hometown, Boston. Odds are, you know someone going to school in Beantown. Call them, let them know you're coming to visit. Just because a diabolic conspiracy has again prevented the Red Sox from autumn glory doesn't mean there's nothing left to see. Believe me, there's a lot more to it than just a corner bar where everybody knows your name. Check it out -it's wicked awesome. At least check something out. The good things in life like fall break are all too infre­quent. So stop your complaining and hit the road. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

MANZANILLO, Mexico 

Wearing surgical masks and wielding pickaxes, rescue workers dug through the wrecked masonry of a collapsed hotel Tuesday, searching for survivors of an earthquake that devastated a long stretch of Mexico's west coast. 
Some tourists were believed to be among the trapped, but further informa­tion about them was unavailable. 
At least 56 people were killed and more than 90 injured in Monday's 7.6­magnitude tremor, which 
and cut power and phone services. 
Hundreds of buildings were wrecked or damaged along a 250-mile stretch of coast -an estimated 800 homes in the state of Jalisco and as many as 400 in the neighboring state of Colima. 
In towns and villages, residents cleaned streets, removed fallen tree branches and righted toppled telephone poles. They also buried the dead and tried to reassemble their lives. 
"We are awaiting more precise infor­mation, but obviously it is a tremendous tragedy," Gen. Enrique Cervantes Aguirre, the defense secretary, said 
Clinton laments Simpson reaction 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton expressed surprise Tuesday at the sharp division between blacks and whites over O.J. Simpson's acquittal and said he is deeply con­cerned "that we are still polarized in some ways." "I do think we need to work on it," the president said. "Because we don't have a stake in drifting apart." Clinton may address 

the need for racial harmony in a speech next Monday in Austin, Texas, aides said. Clinton said he's been thinking about the subject a lot in recent days and "The whole issue of reconciling races in America has been a passion of my life. I think what has struck all Americans in the aftermath of the trial is the apparent differences of per­ception of the same set of facts based on the race of American citizens," Clinton said that blacks and whites can have differences "but at least we ought to be able to look at facts and reach some common judgment more frequently than apparently we're able to today." 
Joyce Brothers hurt in dogsled ride 
ANCHORAGE 
Psychologist Dr. Joyce Brothers wanted an authentic 
Alaska experience and she got one -suffering a broken 
nose, chipped teeth and a concussion in a fall during a 
sled-dog ride. The 66-year-old columnist and TV host 
was treated at a hospital and left town Sunday, canceling 
a lecture Tuesday at the Alaska Center for the 
Performing Arts. "It was a freak accident," Ms. Brothers 
said. Ms. Brothers and her 9-year-old granddaughter 
arrived in Anchorage on Saturday and took a ride in the 
Eagle River-Chugiak area on a four-wheel, all-terrain 
vehicle pulled by a team of sled dogs, said Nancy 
Harbour, vice president of the arts center. A dogfight 
broke out when a man walking an Alaskan malamute 
came near the sled dogs, Ms. Brothers· said. The driver 
jumped off, the four-wheeler tipped over and both she 
and the girl were dumped on the ground. "I was protect­
ing my granddaughter. When you're a mother or a 
grandmother, you do these things automatically," she 
said. "My granddaughter had not a scratch." 
Tuesday. 
Cervantes said 44 dead were counted shortly before noon in Colima alone Jalisco Governor Alberto Cardenas Jimenez said at least 10 died in his state. 
The two states contain some of Mexico's most popular beach resorts. 
Minutes after Cervantes spoke, rescue workers in hard hats pulled the bodies of a woman and a child from the wreck­age of the eight-story Costa Real Hotel, raising the total to 56 dead. 
Tuesday's searches had yielded no survivors by midafternoon. 
As trained dogs sniffed for signs of life, workers used picks and shovels to comb through chunks of broken masonry. The lack of success and the painfully slow pace of the work made the strenuous job even more discouraging. "I haven't rest­ed since yesterday," federal judicial po­lice Officer Pedro Sandoval said. 
Other exhausted officers and rescue workers sprawled nearby, some grab­bing quick naps. 
Both of the past month's quakes were measured by their moment magnitude, a scale similar to the Richter. 
Rapist of 200 due to be released 
TORRANCE. Calif. 
The Pillowcase Rapist who authorities say attacked 200 women in the 1970s, sometimes several a night, is being released after 17 years in prison, alarming residents in the towns where he hunted victims. Reginald Muldrew, 47, earned his nickname because he covered his victims' heads with pillowcases when he assaulted them at knife­point. He was convicted of 29 charges, including four counts of rape, but investigators blamed him for about 200 attacks and 150 burglaries in Los Angeles County. "I felt that he had raped more women (than anyone) in the history of our country," said Phil Rabichow. the deputy district attorney who prosecuted Muldrew. The impending release has raised fears in towns where his victims lived, but authorities said nothing can be done because he has served his sentence. "The system's hands are ti~d.:' said John Mond1J.y, chief deputy commissioner of ttl~ state Board of Prisoiilerms. ''I'm terrified," said a 
· 37 -year-old Torrance woman who was raped by Muldrew in 1977. "I've got a daughter who is 20, who is out there going out at night." 
Angioplasty number key to success 
CHICAGO 
Patients undergoing a coronary angioplasty are better off going to a hospital that performs at least 400 such op­erations a year, a new study found. Previous studies had prompted the American Heart Association and the American College of Cardiology to recommend that hos­pitals perform at least 200 procedures a year to be con­sidered competent. But researchers in Wednesday's issue of The Journal of the American Medical Association found the only statistically significant improvements in major complications at hospitals that performed at least 400 such surgeries. Major complications were described as emergency bypass surgery, a heart attack, or death during or following the operation, said Dr. Stephen Kimmel, a cardiologist at the University of Pennsylvania's Department of Medicine and one of the study's authors. Nearly 400,000 Americans each year have angioplasties, in which doctors temporarily inflate tiny balloons to open up clogged heart arteries. Kimmel stressed that complications during the procedure are rare. 



OHIO 
~-~-~~~~ (f ~ c£ 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Pf8ss GraphlcsNe! 0 1995 h'J:.uWeathef, Inc. 

• TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Viewpoint  
Gwendolyn Norgle  Tom Snider  
Mark Huffman  Jenny Kellogg  
Sports  Production  
Joe Villinski  Kristi Kolski  
Graphics  Belle Bautista  
Zoe Marin  Lab Tech  
Brandon Candura  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observ<r is a member of the Associated Pre>S. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


Wednesday, October 11, 1995 The Observer ·CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Catholicis01 01eeting resistance in Cuba 
By JOSHUA NELSON 
News Writer 
Advancement of Catholicism in Cuba has allowed the Church to progress, but it is still meeting resistance from politicians, according to Aurelio Alonso, a Visiting Fellow of the Kellogg Institute at Notre Dame for the Fall 1995 term. 
Alonso's talk, given at the Ilesburgh Center for Interna­tional Studies yesterday, fo­cused on the state of Catholi­cism and politics today and how it has evolved. 
"It is important that when we talk of religion, (that) it is at a time of transition for the Church and the essential sphere of human spirituality. That relationship (between Catholicism and politics) is de­pendent on this sphere," said Alonso regarding the state of religion in Cuba. 
Catholicism in Cuba is in a state of isolation and internal reconstruction due to conf1icts 

·~is' sici;N·ci~· i:i1s·Niiit;s~:,iii iiiii1iis··:
.......................................... 
in politics, he said. The major cause of this was a pattern that allowed political societies to discriminate against reli­gious sects. 
According to Alonso, even though Cuba has a strong Catholic following, it makes up only about 15 percent of the total population, which has di­verse religious beliefs. "Cuba is a religious society, but it is not a Catholic society," said Alonso, a chair of the Departmento de Movimientos Sociales of the Centro de Estudios sobre America and a professor at the Universidad de La Habana, Cuba since 1963. 
Presently Cuba is in a state of religious reform that fol­lowed the collapse of Communism. Unique to this reform is that it is not based on an American system and focuses on political power transferring the sphere of con­trol. It is also a reconstruction of social relations with other partners, said Alonso, who was at the Cuban Embassy in France from 1983 to 1988. 
According to Alonso, this system is flawed because it automatically generates social inequality, individualism, and it favors privilege for personal welfare. 
"When people lose faith in the political system, many turn to religion and demand its growth," said Alonso, noting that religion acts as an alternative when politics fail. 
Ethical trends help to relate how religion and politics work together Alonso said in explaining that religion may become a factor of ethical reconstruction or community protection. 
lie also said the Church can become an accompaniment to the ethical reconstruction, or it can become an alternative project by way of ethical or moral hegemony. 
This growing reconciliation and communication has led to several advances, but hostility still remains between the Catholics and the politicians. "We have learned to give for the sake of justice what we used to strictly give to chari­ty," Alonso said. 


Mason to change positions 
Special to the Observer 

Thomas Mason, vice presi­dent for business affairs at the University of Notre Dame since 1976, will retire from that position in August 1996 and join the faculty of the College of Business Administration. 
Reporting to University executive vice presi­dent Father 
E. William Beauchamp, Mason ex­
.~· ercises over­·,~. 
Mason

all control of N o t r e Dame's fiscal affairs, including the annual operating budget of more than $350 million and student financial aid disburse­ments approaching $100 mil­lion. He also oversaw the Uni­versity's endowment for 18 years, during which time it grew from $100 million to al­most $900 million. In addi­tion, he oversees Human Resources activities including employment, compensation and benefits; auxiliary enter­prising including campus food services, the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, and the Morris Inn; purchasing; University audits; and campus maintenance and construction. 
More than 30 major construction, expansion and renovation projects have been completed under Mason's oversight, and the current con­struction program-including renovation of the Administration Building, expansion of Notre Dame Sta­dium, conversion of the University's two high-rise resi­dence halls into office build­ings, renovation and expansion of the School of Architecture building, and construction of four new residence halls as well as a new bookstore/visi­tors' center/Alumni 

Power returns in Sarajevo 
::= 

-d. 
The Council for the Retarded in conjunction with the Logan desperately needs tickets for the 
usc 
Game 
e Only student tickets are needed. e There is a possibility that your money will be refunded. 
Please help us reach our' goal of50 tickets. For more Information call: Michael Carney@ 634-1057 
Shane Kanlecld@ 284-5156 
Association headquarters­totals some $190 million. 
Mason was the architect of a 1990 report to Notre Dame's Board of Trustees that resulted in a major financial aid initia­tive which already has seen University scholarship aid almost double in five years. He was also instrumental in developing the 1989 financial plan that committed $27.2 mil­lion to campus computing and has made Notre Dame a national leader in high-tech­nology teaching and research capabilities. Perhaps most sig­nificant, the University during his tenure has had 19 consecu­tive "in the black" budgets and is one of only 12 universities in the nation to earn Moody's in­vestors service top credit rat­ing of Aaa. 
"Much of higher education in recent years has been charac­terized by fiscal crisis and re­trenchment. The fact that this never has been the case at Notre Dmae is due in large measure to the financial and managerial acumen of Tom Mason," said Father Edward Malloy, the University's presi­dent. "Tom's legacy to the University of fiscal planning and budget making model that should ensure our financial strength for years to come." 
"Throughout our eight years of working together, Tom Ma­son's contributions to Notre Dmae have been as large as my reliance upon his exper­tise," said Fr. Beauchamp. "It's been a privilege to be his colleague." 
Mason was appoointed to his current position in June 1976 with the approval of the University's trustees. Previously, he had served at the University of Michigan for 10 years in various financial positions, including the direc­tor of financial affaris of the university's hospital. A certi­fied public accountant, he received his undergraduate and M.B.A. degrees from the University of Detroit. he taught accounting there, as well as at Eastern Michigan University. At Notre Dame he has specialized in not-for­profit accounting, and that will continue to be his teaching focus after his retirement as vice president. 
Mason was name an hon­orary Notre Dame alumnus in 1993 by the national board of directors of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, becoming only the 14th person accorded that honor.. He recently com­pleted a term as a membner of the board of the National Asso­ciation of College and University Business Officers (NACUBO), higher educations' foremost organization of busi­ness and finance administra­tors. He also is a mmebner of the board of WNDU-TV, the Center for the Homeless in South Bend, and Guest House, a nonprofit health organization providing treatment to Catholic religious suffering from alco­hol and drug dependence. 
In addition to Mason's own considerable contributions to the University, his family also has been active at Notre Dame. His wife, Mary Ann, is past president of the Ladies of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's and a member of the board if the Christ Child Society. Their daughter, Jo Ann, is a Notre Dame Law School graduate now serving as Assistant Deputy Attorney General of the State of Indiana; their son, Mike, who earned his bache­lor's degree in economics from the University in 1984, now is a third year Notre Dame law student; and their daughter, Susan, who earned her bache­lor's degree in studio art design from the University in 1987, now is a second year Notre Dame MBA student. 
Late in the day, about half the besieged Bosnian capital had electricity and water service, and at least one-third had natu­ral gas. 
U.N. officials believed enough of the war-ravaged utility sys­tem had been restored to meet conditions necessary for a U.S.­brokered cease-fire to take ef­fect. The warring parties were due to meet in Sarajevo later Tuesday to decide whether to put the truce into force. 
"If they agree. the cease-fire could start a minute after mid­night," said a U.N. spokesman. 
By SRECKO LATALZ 
Associated Press 

SARAJEVO 
Shells and bullets flew in Bosnia on Tuesday, but gas and electricity flowed into Sarajevo, setting the stage for a cease-fire that could finally bring peace. 
Music drifted through streets in the shell-battered Sarajevo suburb of Dobrinja as residents plugged in stereos, radios and televisions for the first time in months. 
"This is so good -running water, hot shower, TV on. It made me forget the war for a little while," said Boris Saric, a 30-year-old policeman. 
page4 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, October 11, 1995 

must do better, and we will," while the size of the student The final issue Malloy ad­said Malloy. body remains the same. The dressed was the continued en­

Malloy 
The Colloquy for the Year availability of educational action of Affirmative Action 
American Heart ~ 
2000, a report submitted to the buildings such as DeBartolo, programs not only in the ad­
continued from page 1 
Association....~
Board of Trustees outlining sev­the College of Business missions process but also in the 
Fighting Heart D1sease

eral recommendations for the Administration Building, and hiring of faculty and staff. Mal­
assist them in the competition 
and Stroke 

for top students. University, included the need eventually a science teaching loy offered the increase from "Both will be better prepared for added faculty positions, a institution has also benefited seven and a half percent to fif­to compete for the best students new bookstore, as well as sev­the education of undergradu­teen percent of minorities ad­
The Most 
and will get a better mix of stu­eral campus-wide renovations. ates. mitted within the last few years dents," said Malloy. He stated In order to work towards One of the most beneficial as proof of the University's 
Important that current rankings of the these proposals, the University steps in progress is the con­commitment to the program. graduate programs are both has added 12 faculty positions struction of a teaching center to "We remain fully supportive 
Instrument in 
"sobering and complementary." for the 1995-96 school year, be built this spring and which of Affirmative Action because it 
the Treatment
While the Theology and has developed plans for a new will be funded by the Kaneb is the wisest policy in a time of Philosophy departments are bookstore which will also in­family. "It will focus efforts on social change," stated Malloy. among the top twenty in their clude a visitor center and alum­every aspect of teaching," said In closing, Malloy announced respective areas, he feels there ni headquarters, and has also Malloy. The center will face the imminence. of the an­is room for "significant initiated the renovations of sev­the issues of possible improve­nouncement of the new provost progress" in other depart­eral classroom buildings as well ments of current teaching per­to replace Timothy O'Meara. 
ments. 
as the Golden Dome. formance evaluations as well as He stated that the search com­
According to Malloy, while student performance evalua­mittee had performed its pur­
According to Malloy. the only these issues have received tions. It will also investigate pose well, and he was "fortu­way to achieve this progress is greater attention, there are how best to encourage the nate to be blessed" with this to concentrate resources in also a few areas in which "maximum utilization of teach­group of finalists. specific departments that have added attention will result in ing tools" and how best to pro­The goals of the University the most coherent set of goals greater respect for the mote better professor-student and the progress that has been and which can best utilize the University. These areas include cooperation. made have created the poten­
assets of the University. The the place of undergraduate tial for excellence for Notre 
choice must be made, however, teaching, the status of interna­International study programs Dame, according to Malloy who of which departments to focus tional programs, and the issue will also face several measures stated, "These are exciting on because there is not "a re­of affirmative action. in the future designed to im­times, and we are ever closer to source base to do all things Concerning undergraduate prove their international visibil­building the great Catholic uni­well," said Malloy. teaching, there is "no more ity and awareness. The Uni­versity." 
Along with the libraries and persistent theme in criticism" versity has the desire to double the graduate school, special at­than that there has been a de­the number of participating 
tention has been given to the cline in the quality of teaching students which will require a University's financial aid pro­coupled with increasing costs of review of existing sites, a sur­gram as well as Colloquy priori­education, claimed Malloy. Ac­vey of student interest and ties. According to Malloy, the cording to him, the University costs, and a plan for "orderly 
financial program has a need to has taken several steps to ad­expansion." The London Pro­find more resources in order to dress this criticism. gram, in particular. will receive allow the opportunity for a The enhanced qualities of attention because it is the 
greater number of students to teaching have included an in­"largest and most academically afford the cost of tuition. "We crease in the number of faculty complicated site in Europe." 
and Shelley Stefen will also dents. faculty, staff, and make presentations at the administration and seeks sup­

Ribbons 
forum. PinS also hopes to fea­port for the group and its ture an alumna speaker. cause.
continued from page 1 
"Something that isn't like The group meets each will speak on the history of you isn't necessarily bad," said Tuesday at 12:15 in Haggar GLND/SMC and the history of one member of PinS. College Center's room 306. the issue as a whole. Members of the group hope PinS is open to members of 
Student speakers Tony Silva to distribute ribbons to stu-any sexual orientation. 
".,..._, r 

Wednesday, October 11, 1995 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
SMC prof finds light medium Leaders explore U.S. 
Tyler makes investigation of holography 
By CAROLINE BLUM 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's Art professor Doug Tyler has always been fascinated by the use of light in art. When in Europe, Tyler dis­covered a light medium that he would later investigate further at Saint Mary's College called holography. 
Tyler was working with ani­mated film at Michigan State University when he decided to travel to Europe for three months. His first stop was to the Netherlands, where a coin­cidence transformed Tyler's life forever. 
"In the Netherlands, I met two Dutch physicists who told me about an art called 'holog­raphy,'" Tyler said. "I was in­terested in the art immediately, However, I did not have time to stop. I realized later that one of the men had left their pipe behind. I carried the pipe throughout Europe for the next two months, and eventually traveled back in Delft, Holland to give the man back his pipe. There I at last saw my first hologram. It was incredible. I felt like a caveman, because I had never seen anything like it before." 
Holography remains popular today primarily in Europe. The art involves a series of images with line, shape, and color that create a dynamic visual form. Many visual properties distin­guish a hologram from others, but mostly its three-dimension­ality. A hologram can portray subjects that may be viewed from a multitude of perspec­tives and angles, each present­ing new information on the subject. When viewing a holo­gram, the audience must create and recreate a vision that they see. 
When Tyler returned to Michigan State, he learned that his college had no resources in holography, and he concentrat­ed on completing his communications degree. 
Tyler later received a mas­ter's in art history and began teaching the subject at James Madison University in Virginia. However, because he missed the "hands-on" art experience, Tyler decided to attend the Cranbrook Academy of Art in Bloomfield Hills; Michigan. 
After receiving his degree, in 1977, Tyler was hired in the art department at Saint Mary's, where he taught photography and design. One year later, Tyler was inspired by fellow art professor Sister Cecilia Ann Kelly to ask for a faculty research grant to bring holog­raphy to Saint Mary's. 
"Tyler was a bright, young, hard-working professor ,"Kelly said. "When he told me about asking for a grant for hologra­phy, I told him to go for it. He received the grant, and went on to accomplish wonderful things with holography." 
Tyler began his work in holography with the basics. His first creations consisted of dif­fraction gratings involving bold and striking patterns. 
"I began slicing up segments of holographs. My creations contained several multiple hologram strips, that I seg­mented over manipulated space. Holograms are distinct because of their power to intrigue the viewer with the appearance and disappearance of light." 
At Saint Mary's, Tyler ex­plored the interaction between the artist, the audience, and the 
see TYLER I page 6 
immigration trends 

By KELLY FITZPATRICK 
News Writer 

Providing evidence of the racist treatment of immigrants, Bong Hwan Kim, a leader in the Korean American commu­nity, and author and activist Elizabeth "Betita" Martinez, spoke last night on current U.S. immigration trends, asking, "Is the U.S. turning its back on the immigrants of the 90's?" 
Asian and Latino immigrants together comprise the majority of the population of Los Angeles County, Kim said; how­ever, this group makes up only 20 to 25 percent of the voting population in Los Angeles. This is evidence of racism against immigrants, according to Kim, who has participated in Korean American and minority affairs in California for 13 years. 
As executive director of the Korean Youth and Community Center for the past six years, Kim has helped to increase and diversify the agency's revenue base and service activities. He has also served as president of the Asian Pacific Planning Council, co-chair of the Black­Korean Alliance and a board 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Bong Hwan Kim, along with Betita Martinez, hosted a forum entitled "Current U.S. Immigration Trends: Turning Our Backs on the lmmigrnats of the '90's?" last night at the Library Auditorium, 
member of the Multi-Cultural Collaborative and of California Tomorrow, a program dedicat­ed to improving public educa­tion. 
Martinez, who since 1989 
has taught ethnic and women's 
studies in the California state 
see RACISM I page 6 

Special to !he Observer 
The campus social commis­sion of Stuilent Government is sponsoring a banner contest for the week preceding the Boston College game. All on­campus residents are eligible to enter by registering the members of the entering group in the Student Governme.nt office before 5 on Wednesday, October 25. All banners must be hung by midnight October 
25. -.
The contest has been orga·nized to help promote campus spirit and to support the foot· ~ 
' 

hall team in its effort to hrea · not be considered. design by a panel of Student the two year losing streak t . .The winning group will re· Government officials and the Eagles !>fB~ston Coll,?ge; It ceive $100 and the residence celebrity guests (to be namt~d has heer,t m~spued by .Dorm..;) hall in which the winning later in a future press release). De,coratw~ .contests of..th~;!lf·grou.p resides will receive 
The winner of the banner 
50s and 60s. ' $100. The banners will be 
contest will be announced at 
. Entries which are obscene!) J.Idged.on the basis of creativi-the pep rally on Friday October demeaning to Boston College Yofmessage and artistry of 27. at 7 in the evening. 
'Y.• 





Macintosh 
computers 
are nowon sale. 
We think your life would be vastly improved ifyou possessed this piece of knowledge: Macintosh" computers are now available for less than the already affordable student prices.just think, ifyou had acomputer, 

Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB •631-7477 M-F9am-5pm 
@lr.r ex{llrB Oclobtr /3, 1995. CCl 1995 Apple Computet; Inc. All rlgbls reserved "'J{!Ie, /he Apple logo, Maci11tosh and "The pcwer to be~ur best" are registered lrademarils ofApple Computet; Inc. CardSIXJp Plus Is a registered trade­marlt ofMitldscJJf¥. All Macintosh romputen are designed to be aa:esrtb/e to Individuals wllb disability. 7b team more (US. only), call 800·600·1808 or rrr800-755-0601. Still reading? Maybeyou shouldthink about law scboo/. 





Macintosh Performii6214CD 
8MB RAMI1000MB harddrive, Power PC 603 jJroC£SSVr, quad-speed CD-ROM drive, 15' color ITWIIi/or, keyboard, mouse ami all the roftware;oore likely to need 

Wednesday, October 11, 1995 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS 
many advantages, including the fore the game. The winning female vocal music. ability to purchase bookstore group will receive $100, and the Stomper Bob plays a variety of 
HPC McDowell
items and football tickets, and dorm in which the student(s) Rolling Stones and Grateful 
l-
continued from page 1 
currently found around North Dining Hall will be transferred to South Dining Hall, Pren­tkowski said. 
·In order ·to alleviate the· large flow of people which will be coming in and out of the SOH, NDFS has varied plans in the conceptual stage. 
Current ideas include building extensions onto the hall where parking lots currently lie and placing food service areas into the Oak Room, increasing the actual dining hall space. 
NDFS is now asking the stu­dent body what types of foods, such as Italian or Chinese, they would like to see in the reno­vated South Dining Hall. Stu­dents who have suggestions should call Kelly at 4-0960. 
Along with Pamela Johnson of the Registrar's Office, Pren­tkowski is also co-chairman of the meal plan, which is to be included in the debit card sys­tem. 
Many companies. will soon be discussing the possibility of for­matting such a card for stu­dtlnts. The card· will be manu­factured on campus within 15 minutes of a picture of the stu­dent being taken, according to Prentkowski. 
With the new card will come 

RacisiD 
continued from page 5 
university system, is the found­
ing editor of the Chicano move­
ment newspaper, "El Grito del 
Norte." 
She also co-founded and 
coordinated Albuquerque's 
Chicano Communications 
Center and has contributed to 
many publications. The author 
of several books, her most recent is "500 Years of Chicano History." 
According to Martinez, it 
was especially appropriate for 
the forum· to be held at Notre 
Dame, a university whose his­
tory as a Catholic institution is 
significant, especially consider­
ing the Pope's statement on 
immigration-which Martinez 
restated: "In a nation of immi­
grants, it would be indeed sad 
for the U. S. to turn away from 
sharing its blessings with 
immigrants." 
She added that the current 
attitude toward immigrants is 
one of "exclusion." 
One of the major problems 
that Martinez indicated is the having your card shut off as soon as you report that it has been lost. 

The meal plan will continue to grow at the same price rate, ac­cording to Prentkowski. He stressed that there is currently no surplus budget for the uni­versity on the meal plan, and that the money put into it goes directly to employee salaries, operations needs and buying food products. 
The ticket exchange was also discussed by Student Body Vice President Dennis McCarthy. 
McCarthy apologized that only 300 students were able to ex­change their tickets for General Admission tickets. He stressed that the Ticket Office had set this policy, and had set a limit on tickets because this plan is only in an experimental stage. McCarthy's advice for exchang­ing tickets for other games was to do so as soon as possible. 
The Banner Contest taking place the weekend of the Boston College game was also dis­cussed. Entry forms can be picked up at the Student Gov­ernment office in LaFortune at any time until midnight the Wednesday before the game, which is the same deadline for the placement of banners on the outside of dorms. 
The winning banner will be 
announced at the pep rally be­
ment services to immigrants 
that could not provide docu­
mentation. 

Martinez, who became the 
first Chicana to run for gover­
nor of California in 1989, 
expressed her dislike for the 
term "illegal alien" because, 
she said, "it reflects the exclu­
sionary attitude" of the white 
population. 

Martinez said that the word 
"immigrant" today has come to 
mean "person of color," and 
much of the problems of the 
country are attributed to these 
non-white persons. 

"Criminalizing immigrants is 
very much on the agenda 
today," Martinez said. 

Kim also communicated his 
belief that immigrants have 
become the scapegoats in the 
investigation of the problems 
in the U. S., crediting the 
media with perpetuating racial 
tensions. 

He criticized public officials 
as well, saying that because 
the public perception of immi­
grants is that they are taking 
away opportunities for white 
Americans, this is the stereo­
type the public officials contin­
ue to convey. 

live in will also receive $100. Students should talk with their rectors as to where the banner can be placed before doing so. 
A trophy will be presented to the Boston College Student Body President at the halftime of the football game against BC. The. trophy will be given annually to the winner of the Notre Dame­Boston College football game. 
The Rockne Award for September 1995 was given to Zahm Hall, which was com­mended for celebrating its Spirit Week by donating money made from raffling an autographed Lou Holtz hat to LaCasa deAmistad, and for holding a voluntary sexual awareness and date rape seminar given by Mic France, a member of Notre Dame's counseling department. 
Judging for the Rockne Award was based on criteria, which included the participation in planning, the quantity of ac­tivities, the diversity of events, the originality in programming, community service, involvement with the campus community, and the use of campus re­sources, according to HPC Co­Chair Matt Schlatter. 
Judges for September includ­
ed representatives of Grace, 
Cavanaugh, and Stanford Halls, 
all three of which did not partic­
ipate in the contest. 
in front," Kim said. 

One of Kim's main criticisms 
of the U. S. is that, though 
minorities are demographically 
the majority, they make up a 
minority of voters. Therefore, 
society is dictated by a minori­
ty, which does not allow for 
equal representation. "Racism 
is as American as baseball and 
apple pie," Kim said. 

The solution to getting peo­
ple of color to vote lies in the 
ability of the youth to influence 
their parents and each other, 
according to Kim. 

Both speakers said they 
expect to see huge increases in 
the number of immigrants 
becoming naturalized and reg­
istering to vote in response to 
growing legislation against 
them. 

Carrie Pugh, assistant direc­
tor of the Office of 
Multicultural Student Affairs, 
one of the sponsors of the 
event, said that it is especially 
important for students at Notre 
Dame to be exposed to this 
topic because they are leaders 
of the future. 

Students are the future poli­
cy-makers, Pugh said. "We all 
have the opportunity to make 
continued from page 1 
cording to McDowell. Ellingboe is responsible for recruiting Stomper Bob's drummer, Dave Daley (former drummer of Big Earl). Daley gathered· Matt Buttel (bass guitarist) and Joel Cummins (keyboards). who played together in a high school band, and hence, Stomper Bob was formed. The six musicians met and discussed the music they wanted to play, and began practicing the next week. 
"The first time we played, I was really surprised," said Mc­Dowell. "We completely clicked." 
Being the only woman in the band has never been a conflict, according to McDowell. Fortu­nately, the biggest problem that she has faced is finding enough 


Tyler 
continued from page 5 
artwork. He advocated the ex­pressive use of the medium by writing and lecturing, organiz­ing exhibitions, and teaching holography on holography. 
In 1980, Tyler held his first exhibition at the little Theatre Gallery at Saint Mary's. The exhibit was entitled "SYZYGY." Although Tyler himself de­scribes the exhibit as "not modern," SYZYGY initiated a career of one of the world's most honorable holographers. 
Four years and three exhibits later, Tyler was asked to pre­sent an exhibit at the National Centre of Photography in Bath, England. His exhibit was enti­tled "Light Dimensions," and gained world-renown recogni­
tion.~---· .. . .~ ~ _ 
Between 1984 and 1988 Tyler displayed eleven more exhibits in countries varying from West Germany, Switzer­land, France, China, to the 
United States, tallying his grand total to sixteen exhibits. 
In 1989, Tyler received a call from Hans Peter in Germany. Burdened with the reaccreditation of Saint Mary's Art Department as a top art school in the nation, however, he ignored the call. 
Three messages later, Tyler 
returned the phone call and 
learned that he was selected as 
the very first recipient of a spe­
cial Holography award in 
Germany. 
"I did not understand the in­
tensity of the award," Tyler 
said. "I thought that I would Dead covers. According to a fan, Becky Kellogg, "They play songs people like to party to." Despite practicing approximately six hours a week, plus gigs and school work, Stomper Bob is currently in the process of mak­ing their own music. "When you are a new band, you have to make a demo and pro­mote your music," said McDow­ell. "You really have to be per­sistent and show bars that you are serious about playing." 
Stomper Bob payment for playing has been free alcohol at parties, and a percentage of the door charge at the bars, which is then put into a band fund. 
Stomper Bob has played at Marion Street, the Swim House, Jazzmins, and will be premier­ing at Bridget McGuire's Wed­nesday, October 25. 
thing. I had no idea that I would be invited to Germany and thrown a huge show with an orchestra and a presenta­tion." 
Tyler believes that hologra­phy reveals a window to our future. The medium is based on photography, which has had enormous effects on technology throughout the world. 
"Photography requires the expansion of our eyes," Tyler said. "It changed the way we live our lives. Today, hologra­phy is the same. In another thirty years, we may not be able to tell what is or is not a holograph." 
Today Tyler still dedicates much of his time to hologra­phy. He currently teaches a course in holography at Saint Mary's, as well as courses in New Media, Photography, and Screen Printing. 
_ "Pn>.(~ssor Tylex: has been an influential and successful force in the art department for twen­ty years," Sister Kelly said. "He is an excellent teacher and contributes greatly to our de­partment. I feel that he is a vi­tal, and integral part of our program, as well as respected by all." 
Tyler hopes through teaching he can let his students feel the exciting parts of art, experi­ence and exploration. 
"Experiencing and exploring 
shows us a great way to know 
things in a new perspective," 
Tyler said. "Art presents an 
opportunity to look at things 
from a different angle. Every­
one is creative, they just need 
to loosen up and let their cre­
ativity come out. My challenge 
is getting my students to real­
"Save our State" initiative in California, or Proposition 187. "That is not leading. That is If implemented, the proposi­looking to see which way the tion would deny any govern-mob is going and trying to get 
University of Notre Dame lnternetlonel Study Progrem In 


INNSBRUCK, AUSTRIA 
INFORMATION MEETING FILM "AUSTRIA" With Professor Marie -Antoinette Kremer 
Wednesday October 11, 1995 
4:30pm 
119 DeBartolo 
Returning students will be on hand to answer questions. 

difference." just receive a plaque or some-ize this." 
CANDAX McNAIR PROGRAM 
Organizational  Meeting  with  
DR. MARIO BORELLI  DR. ROLAND SMITH  
DIRECTOR, CANDAX  EXECUTIVE ASSISTANT  
TO THE PRESIDENT  

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1995 
7:00 P.M. ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM (CUSHING) 
FOR STUDENTS INTERESTED IN GRADUATE STUDIES 
& 
FROM UNDERREPRESENTED GROUPS 
ALL INTERESTED STUDENTS ARE INVITED REFRESHMENTS AFTER THE MEETING AT 8:00 P.M. 
Wednesday, October 11, 1995 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Black men's frustration part of Monday's march 
By CONNIE CASS Associarro Press 
WASHINGTON 
The state of America's black men is measured with sweep­ing statistics -too few in the classrooms and board rooms, too many on the streets, behind prison walls and in early graves. 
For individuals, there is a more personal accounting: the cabs that buzz past researcher Richard Majors when he tries to flag them down on a busy Washington corner; the way some whites steel their jaws and avert their eyes when bookstore clerk Albert Pollard steps into an elevator; the fre­quency with which police stop college senior Shawn Barney for what he sees as no reason. 
.No matter how they succeed, many black men feel feared and mistrusted. They say it's a problem black women don't share, because women aren't perceived as threatening. 
The men's frustration and anger is shared across eco­nomic lines. And it's part of the pull of the Million Man March, a giant rally for black males planned in Washington next Monday. 
"I've done everything society asked me to do -worked hard, gone to the good schools, I dress well -and I cannot get a taxi during the day," said Ma­jors, who has a doctorate in psychology and won a Harvard Medical School fellowship. 
"What does that say about the black man who has no power, who has no education, who has no skills?" he asked, adding: "We don't like black males very much in this soci­ety." 
Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan, originator of the Million Man March, says one of its goals is "showing the world a vastly different picture of the black male." 
The midday event -organiz­ers describe it as more of a convergence than a march ­will underscore the majority of black men who stay in school, work hard and care for their families. 
It also is described as a call for black men to come together to end the inner-city spiral of crime, drugs and unemploy­ment, the conditions that feed media images of black men. 
"Remember, many of these young black men deserved to be in jail. Many of them deserve to be under the jail. They are murderers and thieves. They are giving the others a bad name," said black radio host Armstrong Williams, who supports the goals of the march but opposes the contro­versial Farrakhan as its leader. 
Organizers have been criti­cized for excluding women from the event, one of several reasons the national NAACP refused to endorse the rally. But many black women support its goals, agreeing that black manhood is in crisis. 
At predominantly black Howard University, Jania Richardson often finds herself in a class of five males and 25 females. 
"Our black men are scarce," said Richardson, president of the school's NAACP chapter. 


FBI hunts derailment suspects 
By MICHELLE BOORSTEIN Associated Press 
HYDER, Ariz. 
FBI agents hunting the sabo­teur who derailed an Amtrak train worked Tuesday to de­termine whether the "Sons of Gestapo" is really an anti-gov­ernment terrorist group or just someone with a grudge against the railroad. 
The FBI expanded its painstaking search for evi­dence to a mile-square area surrounding the gulch where the Sunset Limited lurched off a damaged track and asked the public for help finding the cul­prit. 
The train jumped the tracks at the damaged section early Monday, toppling 30 feet from a bridge, killing a crew mem­ber and injuring at least 78 people. 
A letter found at the scene mentioned federal raids on right-wing extremists at Waco, Texas, and Ruby Ridge, Idaho. It was signed "Sons of Gestapo," raising fears the sabotage was the work of anti­government extremists. 
FBI officials held a brief news conference six miles from the scene Tuesday, but offered lit­tle insight into the investigation called "Operation Splitrail," refusing to comment about the letter. 
With about 90 agents on the scene, Larry McCormick, acting special agent in charge of the Phoenix office, said he believed it was the bureau's second­biggest crime scene investiga­tion after the Oklahoma City bombing. 
"We are going to pursue ev­ery bit of evidence and every 
No warning 
Saboteurs broke apart rails and attached a cable that bypassed an electronic system that would have warned the crew of a break in the rail line. 
The track has a system of sensors that are used primarily to let Amtrak know where its trains are. This system has a side benefit of alerting trains of a break in the track when the current is cut. 
A low-power electric current runs through the rails and will set off a signal on a pole alongside the tracks if the current is shorted, as it does when a train is on that section of railroad or when there is a break in the rail. 
Diagram is schematic 
In a 19-foot section of track, 29 of the spikes that hold the rail to theCable relayed the Steel plate used wooden crossties hadelectric current giving to attach two rail been pulled out.

the Amtrak train the sections was green light to proceed. removed. 
Sources: Association of American Railroads; Amtrak; federal authorities AP/Kari Gude 
lead very thoroughly ... until found a "derailing device" on a we find the person or persons set of railroad tracks in down­who committed this crime," town Phoenix. Special Agent AI said U.S. Attorney Janet Davidson said the bureau knew Napolitano. nothing to connect the discov-
Acting on a tip, FBI agents ery with the derailment. 
qn1 lul~,.,,.,.,1Ji' hn luUn"lliiHI '' '1\) f bn-' ··R\' I H't6WJ!lf·. r, " 
We value our gay and lesbian students as we value all students who are members of this community. We want the University to be a safe and inclusive environment in which every student can pursue the educational endeavor to which we are committed-­free from harassment of any kind. 
THE AD HOC COMMITTEE ON GAY AND LESBIAN STUDENT NEEDS 
Sister Sue Bruno, O.S.F. Rev. David B. Burrell, C.S.C. Rev. Robert Dowd, C. S.C. Ms. Ann M. Firth (Chair) 
Rev. Terence Linton, C.S.C. 
Mr. Dennis McCarthy 
Ms. Sharon Miller 
Mr. Jonathan Patrick Professor Maura Ryan 
Mr. Anthony Silva 
Dr. Susan Steibe-Pasalich 
Dr. Patrick Utz 
Rev. Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. 

Dexter's not his usual self. 
You suspect the salsa. 
So you call Dr. Nusblatt, your family vet back home. 
The call is cheap. (Too bad about the consultation fee.) 
Live off campus? Sign up for xm:r True Reach SavingssM and save 25% 
no ntatter who, how, when or where 
you call in the U.S. 
Life can be complicated. AT&T True Reach SavingssM is simple. Save 25o/o on every kind of call on your AT&T phone bill-direct dial, calling card, directory assistance, local toll, cellular, fax and modem­when you spend just $25 a month: No other plan gives you all these different ways to save* Just call1800 TRUE-ATT to sign up. Save on every call. That's Your True Cboice.sM 





AT&T 
Your True Choice 
'Refers to long distance calls billed to A'RH home or Al&T Calling Card accounts. Discounts off Al&T basic mtes. Certain excl11sions apply. Subject to billing availability. Offer available to residential Al&T customers: Minimum spending requirement is per residential line "Compared to major long distance carriers. @ 1995 KI&T 

VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, Oc;:tober I I, 1995 

page 9 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFfiCE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
John Lucas 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Elizabeth Regan Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advenising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint F.ditor .................. Michad O'Hara Ad Desigo Manager ...................... Jen Mackowiak Sporu Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor .................................. Rob Finch Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Saint Mary' a Editor .................... Patti Carson Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Ob>erver is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accur.tdy and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­rorials represent rhe opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Ediror, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Muy's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity ami w all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through lem:rs is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor/Viewpoint 9ports News/Photo Accent/Saint Mary's Day Editor/Production General Information  631-4541 631-4543 631-5323 631-4540 631-5303 631-7471  Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 Office Manager 631-7471 Fax 631-6927 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.l@nd.edu Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  


ON TI-l~ 011-\E.R 1-\A.~D YOO ON'T Bl.Af'lok: T~k: JURY.... TJ.IINK OF SPENDING MOHTI-IS CONFINED TO A SMALL SPACE 
.AGAINST YOUR WILL.. 
• IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD 

Remembering the clear travesties ofjustice 
My full intent was to continue on in my analysis of the rage of a privileged class, but I feel compelled, or, more obligated to talk not only about the verdict of the 
O.J. Simpson trial, but about the issues which have seemed to be raised by some. I won't lie and say that I am not angry. because I very much am. 
Specifically I am speaking of the numerous people ei­ther publicly or in a private forum who insist that the not guilty verdict was some sort of crime against soci­ety. 
Everyone has seen the statistics where the majority of whites believe the verdict to be false while most black people whole-times of selling drugs and get a life sentence with NO possibility of parole, but someone can be convicted of murder and can look forward to making parole in seven years? And where is drug use more often and more widespread used? Black inner-cites? Race card. 

How is it that there are longer jail sentences if some­one is convicted of selling/distributing crack rather than cocaine? Where is crack most evident? Black inner-cities and ghettoes? Race card. 
Again, I won't lie and say I trust our judicial system, but l have no choice but to accept it and try to live by 
it, although it has failed 
many more times than I wish 
heartedly support it. For the record, to remember. I hate it that t am overjoyed and elated at the ver­so many white people want dict and I support O.J. in every way. to talk about how the justice Sure the· brother needs some help, system failed. Yeah, let's but who doesn't. talk about how much the jus­
Cristiane Likely
What's really making me angry is tice system failed. shall we?? the resurgence of white Americans It failed for Emmet Till. It who are screaming injustice and who failed for Latasha Harlins are indicting not only O.J. but practi-(her killer was sentenced to cally all black people of racism 400 hours community ser­
because they believe number one, 
O.J. is guilty of murder, and two, race was a deciding factor in the verdict. 
I am not going to dwell on the facts of the case because it is over. the jury. rightfully so. decided that the prosecution could not prove beyond a reasonable doubt that O.J. Simpson was guilty. Reasonable doubt. Everyone knows that the laws. rules and regulations of our society are based on reason. but I have to ask, whose reason? 
It is obvious that the reason of those twelve jurors differs from the reason of the majority of white people. Does that make those jurors unreasonable men and women? Is reason subjective? 
I don't understand how it is so reasonable to believe that if Mark Fuhrman can consciously lie in court, on taped conversations, boast about calling black people niggers, talk about planting evidence against blacks, brag about assaulting black people, and generally talk about acting out his anger toward blacks, but it is so uhreasonable to believe that he actually did it? 
How is it so unreasonable to believe that if Jeffrey Dahmer can consume human flesh, Mark Fuhrman can plant evidence and conspire to convict O.J. Simpson? Could he have done it? Yes. Did he have the motive and opportunity? Most definitely. 
As far as race is concerned, the so-called race card has always been played, just this time, if at all, in favor of O.J. Why is it that someone can be convicted three 

vice), Melvin Eugene Hair (asphyxiated by chokehold during an altercation with Tampa police), Loyal Garner Jr. (beaten and died while in police custody in Hemphill, Texas), Jerrold Hall (19 yr. old shot and killed by a transit cop in the back of the head because he was under suspicion for stealing a Walkman). and others we may never hear of. I say that justice system works pretty well for white people. it just doesn't work well for people who happen to be black. 
I hate it that these same people who are crying about a travesty of justice, didn't say a thing about other clear travesties of justice, for example, the Rodney King verdict. I didn't hear a lot of white people call it a crime against society then, but how is it so much more of a crime now? 
I've had to sit through a lot of crap. hold in my anger, and bite my tongue because I know more often than not justice is not there for a lot of black people, innocent or not. 
I am angered by the remarks of Josh Ozersky be­cause in a lot of ways he wants to put the blame on black people for all the idiotic things some whites be­lieve and for the animosity black people feel toward white people. Ozersky states "The O.J. trial is only the worst, latest reason for this kind of thing. But you see it everywhere." 
lie wants us to just get along, or at least try, but I say no, not until white people can get over their fear of black people. Not until white people realize the privi­leges they were born with because their skin is white, and ours is not. · 
Not until white people realize that black anger. black rage, black resentment, and yes, black hate are not fig­ments of our imagination. Not until white people real­ize that they assume they deserve respect where black people have to earn it. Not until white people focus their highly subjective eyes on themselves and see if they don't fear what they see. Not until! 
I am angered also because Mr. Ozersky shows bla­tant disregard for me as a black person because he says "Every white person in America, including myself, believes from the bottom of their heart that he is guilty. a millionaire using his blackness as nerve gas to escape justice with the help of sleazy, high priced lawyers." 
So I wonder what these same white people. including Mr. Ozersky, himself, think about Emmet Till, Latasha Harlins, and Jerrold Hall. Is it fair to ascertain that the four officers who savagely beat Rodney King used their whiteness as a "nerve gas to escape justice"? If not, then someone explain to me how they got off? Did somebody see something I did not. 
I'm tired of hearing people like Mr. Ozersky who openly criticize black people who do exactly the same things white people do, but don't ever acknowledge the fact that white people do them. I'm tired of hearing white people feign surprise because of the inescapable reality that the "Mark Fuhrman's" of the world still exist and are in full force in 1995. 
I'm tired of people condemning me because of their condemnation of O.J. Simpson. I'm tired of people minimizing my struggle as a black person because they wish to compare or mirror their struggle with ours (my sympathies to the anonymous gay freshman who felt the need to say that the Gay Rights struggle is similar to the Civil Hights struggle, but I have yet to find a way to hide my blackness when I'm not ready to be black which makes our struggle and your struggle inherently different). 
I'm tired of having to defend myself. my people, my struggle every time someone wishes to pontificate in a public forum. Regardless of how angry or overjoyed, upset or elated • disillusioned or hopeful, disenchanted or content anyone has gotten. guilt or innocence, the question inevitably still remains, what next? 
Christiane J. Likely is a senior living in Pasquerilla West Hall. She can be reached over e-mail at: clike­ly@artin. helios. nd. edu 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• 000NESBURY 

I'M [}f?.R/FK!N. 9-f&U Be FIN&. I 5&/IJWUP 
I JU&.iT FIN/'31-1&1? 7H& H/5AV LAC£RA710N5ANI? TREATINGY~ RAN ~M& 7Ct315, BUT I 
af/F£... WANT TO K!ZP Ha< fOR._ 0/3513RVA770N. 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"}refuse to accept the idea 

that the 'isness' of man's present nature makes him morally incapable of reaching up for the 'oughtness' that for­ever confronts him." 
-Martin Luther King, Jr. 


VIEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, October 11, 1995 
• fROM THE BAYOU 

The challenging world ofrural Louisiana 
I
was not sure what to write for my first contribution school alma mater in Cincinnati. thing? Stacey seemed happy and content... to the Observer post-graduation. Surely moving to But Crowley High School, where I teach French Yet as few days have passed, I cannot get over the rural Louisiana to teach high school would provide a (franglais actually), is not suburban Cincinnati. It is "normalness" which surrounded Stacey's announce­lot of material for writing-or so I thought. And thus not even the fringes of suburban New Orleans. It is a ment to me. Her classmates could not believe I far, it has. ================poo-r, rural, and unemployment-thought Stacey was just pulling my leg at first. It is just difficult to decide where plagued section of a state mired in Grant~d. Stacey seems happy with her son and at to begin. problems. A school where students least she had the baby rather than turning to abor­Louisiana and teaching are both may, in fact, benefit from a course tion. But what is a 16 year-old doing with a baby? How can a high school education
far more challenging. and that simply teaches
Dave Rl. ng
stranger, worlds than I was pre-how to merely he a be on Stacey's mind when a child pared for. There have been responsible adult. is waiting for her at home? insects called love bugs hitting the So, when I asked I really do not understand the
'She was so proud;
front of my car as I drive through what the goal of their attitudes I am finding at my high
she beamed with 
the prairies of southwest class was they joked it school. I refuse to read the Louisiana; bugs so horrible they was to become respon-excitement in her eyes announcement in the morning eat away a car's paint. sible adults. But some of us, a few which asks all pregnant girls to
as she talked about her
There have been random checks by the friendly chimed, are already responsible. please submit their due dates to Louisiana police with an unnerving sort of regularity "Yeah, we already responsible adults." little boy. She did not the office for attendance purposes. just because my car has out of state license plates. But Responsible adults who do not use verbs It is as if Adult Responsibility is
see the irony of claiming 
it was not until just the other day that something in their sentences. not just a class, but adult respon­struck me as to give me pause. A casual comment But what is grammar to the 16 year-old herself responsible by sibilities-like being a parent-are from a 16 year-old girl made me stop and think about who said to me, "Mr. Ring, I'm already pointing to her repro­expected to be a part of these stu­the world of "under-researched" public education into responsible. I've got a baby." dents' lives. 
ductive abilities at an
which I have entered. Stacey is in my junior class homeroom I want to scream at my students I was grading students' papers during my free-time and, as I learned in Adult Responsibility, age where most kids just that being a parent is not part of when an assistant principal came out of nowhere to the mother of an eleven month-old son. growing up. I want my students to 
want a driver's licens~­
ask me to sit in on the rest of another teacher's class. She was so proud; she beamed with only have to worry about -er verbs Another teacher had to leave for a meeting so a substi-excitement in her eyes as she talked not a child.' and acne. tute was needed for the remaining few minutes of her about her little boy. ut my students are, in many 6th hour class. She did not see the irony of claiming B regards, much older than l A]hen I was alone with the students I began to ask herself responsible by pointing to her reproductive myself. They have experienced quite a bit in their tur­
V V them what class I was sitting in on. Several stu-abilities at an age where most kids just want a driver's bulent 16 years or so, that I have not even thought of dents shouted out "Adult Responsibility." I did not license-not a child. in my' 21. think much of it at the time; I continued grading I wanted to ask her who was watching the baby Until now. papers in the front of the room as the students fmished now? Who helped pay for his food and medical care? up an assignment left for them. How could she study in the evenings? Did she have to 
I started to wonder what in the world a kid learned work? Who is the father? in a class called Adult Responsibility. Adult Of course, I stood there like the naive-fresh-college Dave Ring, a former assistant news editor for The Responsibility? There was no such course at my high graduate-first-year teacher I am. How could I say any-Observer, is teaching French in rural Louisiana . 

• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Grad student sheds light on Darwinian ~oatroversy
·uo1rlt n.. .
Dear Editor: 

The Observer has graciously allowed me to respond to Josh Ozersky's remarks of Sept. 28. Rather than continue a pointless rhetorical spar­ring match, I will try to shed light on why the issue of bringing Philip Johnson to campus to cri­tique Darwinian evolution generated so much controversy. 
As to why Josh Ozersky was initially worked up about Johnson coming here, I can only guess. His first column gave the impression that he regarded Johnson's visit as part of a (crypto-?) fundamentalist plot to infiltrate Notre Dame with ideas of a six thousand year old earth and a geo­centric universe. 
It is not clear what Josh meant by the term "fundamentalist" (of course, this term is much more effective in rhetorical debate if left unde­fmed). In the present context, I would think of a fundamentalist as someone who feels con­strained to conform geological and biological his­tory to the six twenty-four hour days of Genesis. 
I personally do not know of any questioner ol Darwinism at Notre Dame who would insist on this, though some probably do. Philip Johnson clearly does not. Therefore, to infuse the discus­empirical verification as things such as the theo­sion with this terminology doesn't seem to help ry's explanatory power, how many new avenues matters much. of inquiry it opens up, how well it predicts new 
Josh's second column expressed a more legiti­phenomena, or simply its elegance. 
mate concern: Johnson is a non-scientist, seem­This, it seems to me, is what makes the present ingly biased against Darwinian evolution, who is controversy so interminable. Law professors like criticizing a scientific theory. This gets much Philip Johnson want to see hard evidence, as in closer to the heart of the issue, I believe, which the case of the Holocaust, that evolution is really was essentially a turf battle between science and true. They have a hard time making a logical other disciplines with Josh Ozersky, historian, as leap from changing finch beaks to whole species the unlikely champion of the scientific turf. Let evolving by chance variations. Scientists either me explain: offer evidence of the finch beak sort or, as repre­
Josh has likened criticism of Darwinism to sented in Josh's columns, tell him it's none of his holocaust revisionism. There are some obvious business. Neither reply is very satisfying. flaws to that comparison, but perhaps it will be So then, each side has a legitimate gripe. 
enlightening as well. To those who question the Scientists may be right about evolution, but due historicity of the Holocaust, historians-on whose to the nature of the thing they can't simply pre­turf this issue legitimately falls-could respond in sent evidence of the sort that a non-scientist two ways. They could reply curtly, ''This is histo­would appreciate. Non-scientists may be unreal­ry, dammit! Stay out of it. Trust us, it hap­istic in their expectations, but to castigate those pened." A more satisfying response, however, who are honestly skeptical as fundamentalists or would be to present the overwhelming evidence liken them to holocaust revisionists merely mud­that this event actually occurred. dies the already murky waters of controversy. It 
Now some non-scientists are questioning also smacks of the old liberal Gestalt that still Darwinian evolution. The problem is that while exists in some parts of academia-"There are the discipline of history is relatively accessible to those who think the way I do, and then there are 
the layperson, much of science is not. those who are out of their minds." Perhaps there Laypersons don't understand amino acids, and are other possibilities. the rules and nature of evidence are not so sim­ple in modern science. Since Darwin, what RICK OSTRANDER makes a theory "true" in science is not so much Graduate Student in History 




ACCENT 
Wednesday, October 11, 1995 page 11 

say potato1 


T
Accem Writer Jersey. not have an accent. He considers him­The accent with the most talked-up self to be a plain speaker, much like a he members of the Notre reputation has to be the slow southern midwesterner. However, residents of Dame/Saint Mary's community lit-drawl. Yet, it is not as common on cam­the midwest, no matter how simply they emily hail from all over the world. pus as one may think. Phillip Murphy, a may appear to speak, are not completely They come to campus bringing their freshman from Tennessee, said that he accent-free themselves. own styles of clothing, music, and cus-has not heard very many Southerners Most people, when asked, considered toms to add to the diversity of the Notre since he left home. "I do have some type themselves to be accent-free, especially Dame community. of an accent but it is not southern," he the "plain speaking" midwesterners. 
It follows without surl!rise, then, that s.aid. Murphy is not sure of the origin of Residents of other areas use midwest­there are man'ydMfere1lf\fay~df gpelk.it .11bi'ae"Cedt blll!\\IA he ha!#lmoved from 'tlrners as a comparison when proving ing throughout campus. Accents from state to state throughout his life. their absence of accents. Yet, even mid­almost everywhere in the world can be Coming from Southern California, westerners have been accused of their heard at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. junior Katie O'Mara said that she does own regional quirks. Without realizing 
After speaking with several people, it not fit the typical Californian Valley Girl it, many midwesterners fall victim to the appeared that the most heavily accented stereotype. "When I first arrived in "lazy tongue" syndrome: either not group on campus comes from the So:.~th Bend I had a few sayings that making the effort to pronounce words Midwest. Chicago natives, very well tended to label me a Californian. Yet, completely or not allowing space represented both by numbers and by after a couple semesters at Notre Dame, between words. Midwesterners do not reputation, are said to have the most my friends at home believed that I had say that they are "going to the dining common and noticeable accent on cam-picked up a small accent from being hall". Instead, they are "goin' t'the pus. here," she said. dinin'hall". They will not wait "for 
New Yorkers follow a close second The myth of the big-talkin' Texan was something", but they will wait "fur place while honorable mentions are shattered by Kevin Dewan, a Keenanite somethin"'. 
say... 

~ 
Pronunciation is not the only discrep­ancy among students; vocabulary is also key. Many Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students have been caught up at some point in the debate over pop ver­sus soda. 
Most of the before-mentioned midwesterners call the caffeinated beverage "pop." The exception to the rule is sophomore Maggie Rutting who insists that it is "soda pop". Southerners usually insist on calling it "soda"; while people from out west say that it is either "soda" or "Coke." 
Regardless of the terminology or the pronunciation, most Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students understand each other. · 
As the semester wears on we begin to notice the differences between other people and ourselves less and less. We even start to pick up on other people's ways of speaking in time to impress our own friends back home during fall break. 

feed 



Dangerous EducatiOn
Books... Y~~~d 

By JOSH PICHLER 
Accem Literary Critic 

hough LouAnne Johnson's My Posse Don't Do 
omework" was originally written in 1992, it only gained na­tional attention this summer as the basis for the motion picture, "Dangerous Minds." It is a power­ful account of the challenges a thir­ty-five-year-old rookie teacher faces in an inner-city San Francisco public school. Though her story is new, the problems facing public schools are not. Johnson's mes­sages of respect, determination, and new approaches to old prob­lems serve as a source of inspira­tion for all ages and backgrounds. 
The difficulties Johnson en­counters are daunting. Her stu­dents appear to be apathetic at 
~ best; at their worst they are openly hostile to her. In order to overcome this she must undo damage created by years of unstable home lives and a system which at times seems more interested in pushing the stu­dents through school rather than educating them. Johnson finds in some cases all it takes to build up a student is a hug or a positive note. For other students, Johnson must threaten to kill them with her bare hands in order to maintain order and earn respect. Unfortunately, sometimes nothing works at all and another student slips through the cracks. Each chapter is a different story, and though the book is not chronologically ordered, the entire effect is overwhelming with Johnson sharing her reactions to each situation. 
Overshadowing her encounters with students are the obstacles she faces from the public school sys­tem, which seems willing to accept mediocre results in place of the pursuit of academic excellence. In one instance, Johnson recommends a group of Hispanic students to be moved from a special English class into a higher level course. Because the students have scored poorly on the Nelson Reading Tests, the school refuses. 
Though Johnson claims these three page tests cannot possibly ascertain fluency, the school be­lieves graduation is an impossibility for these students and is willing to settle for a minimum improvement in their English. The message is clear-Johnson is expected to baby-sit these students and keep them from "clogging up the sys­tem." 
She is also forbidden to teach "Hamlet," a senior level book to a junior class, even though they had successfully completed "The Taming of the Shrew" and "The Merchant of Venice." The reason: they might get ahead of themselves. 
Through her straightforward writing style, Johnson sends a pow­erful message: a dramatic change is needed in the public school sys­tem. The problems of public schools are well-known and range from overcrowding to a high demand for teaching faculty. Johnson's book is valuable in that it gives a different perspective on the situation. Students must deal with a highly bureaucratized system, watching their future determined by standardized tests and the politi­cal machinery of the public school system. 
"Dangerous Minds" is a powerful example of how one person can make a difference and an eye­opening account of the problems created by indifference and com­placency. At a time when the future of public schools is the sub­ject of heated political debate, when of all things school prayer is an election issue, LouAnne Johnson refocuses attention on the real problems facing the American school system today. 

-
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaForrune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 


page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, October 11, 1995 

BABYSITTER NEEDED IN OUR  I NEED BC TICKETS -STUDENT  This is a Rebel that surrendered to  
NOTICES  HOME FOR SMALL CHILD A COUPLE OF AFTERNOONS A  TICKET-MART, INC. WANTED  OR GA!!I! PLEASE call Megan at x4268  You like PHISH?  us. Although he denies it, I believe there may be more of them, and I  
WEEK. WALKING DISTANCE  GA'S FOR ANY/ALL  request permission to conduct a fur­ 
LITTLE FLOWER HOME DAY·  FROM CAMPUS. 232-2595  HOME/AWAY NO GAMES.  SELLING USC GA TWO $200 OBO  Tix for the concert in K-Zoo  ther search of the area.  
CARE. LOVING, STIMULATIVE  BUY*SELL *TRADE  UNTIL OCT. 12 271-19-98  (that's Kalamazoo, Ml) for sale.  He was armed only with this.  
ENVIRONMENT. MOTHER, EDU·  ARTIST NEEDED  (219) 232-0058-24 HRS.  The show is OCT. 27.  Good work, Commander. Leave us.  
CATOR. SPECIAL DISCOUNTS.  2 Navy GA's for 2 BC GA's.  Tix are $25 each (five are avail­ Conduct your  
LICENSED. 284-0708.  Interested in painting a portrait  I NEED TIXS TO ALL HOME  273-9176.  able).  search and bring his companions to  
based from a picture? I need  GAMES.272-6306  me.  
WEEKLY-MIDWAY TAVERN  someone immediately! It's for a  2 USC STUD TIX, best offer.  Call AMY at 273-2864.  Yes, my Lord.  
810W4TH MISH.  wedding gift.  NEED TICKETS  John 273-9249  The Emperor has been expecting  
MON THE JAZZ FIRM 7:30-9:30  Call Laura at 273-2768  you.  
WED OPEN JAM 9 PM  2 USC and 2 NAVY G.A.'S  Need USC tickets (4)  I know, father.  
THURS IRISH MUSIC 9 2BLKS S. OF 1 00 CTR  FOR RENT  Call Sean x2153  call #4814-Erica  Needed: 2 USC student tix. Call Jason at x-1079.  So, you have accepted the truth. I've accepted the truth that you  
255-0458 NEED 10  * Have 2 BC GAs to TRADE for 2  were once Anakin Skywalker, my  
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR NO  Wanted: 4 tickets together -any  USC GAs. Colin x-1389  TIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIX  father.  
ILOST&FOUNDI  232-2595  home game Wanted: 2 tickets NO-USC  Dad & Co. Coming for USC ...  needed: 1 BC ticket (stu or GA) call dan at 273-6183 if you can help  That name no longer has any meaning for me.  
THAT PRETTY PLACE. Bed and  Call 1-800-922-BEAR day  Need tickets-PLEASE HELP II  out. thanx.  It is the name of your true self.  
BIG REWARD for in!o. leading to  Break1ast Inn has space available  1-502-354-8826 collect in evening  GAs or Student.  TIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIX  You've only forgotten. I know there  
the return of bike "taken" Oct. 2  for football wknds. 5 rooms with pri­ Rob 2734674  is good in you. The Emperor hasn't  
behind Cav. hall: sky blue, schwinn  vate baths. Located in Middlebury,  NEED B.C. Ticket -G.A. or S.A.  I NEED USC TIX  driven it from you fully. That is why  
10 spd., 70's model, big sentimen­ 30 miles from campus. 1-800-41 8­ Please call Anne 634-3445.  WILL TRADE TWO NO BC FIELD  KEVIN @ 234-2952  you couldn't destroy me. That's why  
tal value -call 4-3504  9487  TICKETS FOR TWO USC GA'S.  you won't bring me to your Emperor  
NEED 3 NAVY G.A.'S. HAVE  CALL CRAIG@ 233-1161 OR  HELP! NEED 2 NAVY GA'S FOR  now.  
LOST-gold bracelet of extremely  One bedroom in house. Utilities and  TWO STUD. USC TIX TO TRADE  234-7378.  VISITING PARENTS. CALL 4­ I see you have constructed a new  
sentimental value. Call Ricky at 4­ laundry facilities, and kitchen privi­ OR UPGRADE. CALL NICOLE  0714.  lightsaber.  
1152 if found. BIG REWARD  leges. Close to campus. $250/mo.  X4905  Need BC & Navy tix. Stud/GA's.  Your skills are complete. Indeed,  
WANTED  Female preferred. 2794.  Call Paul 232­ ..........PLEASE HELP!....******* *NEED 1 NAVY GAl*  282-1638.  FOR SALE  NEED LOTS OF USC TIX. WILL PAY$$. PLEASE CALL SARAH-X2865  you are powerful, as the Emperor has foreseen.  
ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE  *CALL COLLEEN AT X2191*  (2) USC  MARRIED STD TIX  PLEASE, PLEASE,  
* * * FREE TRIPS & CASH * * *  HOME FOR  JEREMY 4-3666  Help, I need 2 married st. or st. tix  NEED RIDE TO KU, KS ANYONE  
Find out how hundreds of students  ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE  NEED 4 USC GAs  Katie 4015  for the BC game. $$  RIDING THROUGH KG-OK  
are already earning FREE TRIPS  TO CAMPUS.  I NEED USC STUD'S AND GA'S  Call Malt X-1307  THANKS NO---PAUL X3272  
and LOTS OF CASH with  CALL 272-6194 AM OR 232-9620  Need 2 USC GA's  PAUL X5113  NEED TO KNOW BY 5:00PM  
Amenca's #1 Spring Break compa­ PM  Will Pay For Them  Have 1 USC tix for sale! Please  WED.  
ny! Sell only 15 trips and travel !reel  & ASK FOR SANDY.  Call Rusty x-0993  For Sale. Stud Tix Book(USC, BC,&  call 4-3306, ask for Mark  
Choose Cani:lln, Bahamas,  Navy). Call Erin at #4021 with offer.  Happy National Coming Out Day!  
Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL NOW!  LAST CHANCE LODGING FOR  NEED BCTKT  NEED USC GA'S  Celebrate! Be supportive! And  
TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAV·  HOME GAMES:  WILL TRADE  USC TKT  Need two Navy Tickets  KATIE X1093  Remember Smile and be Proud!  
EL (800)95-BREAKI  Three-bed Bed and Breakfast 5  OR PAY$$$  Call Lara at x4416  
min. from campus. Gingerbread  CALL KELLI X4044  Need 2 USC tix. std or GA Call  It's National Coming Out Day! I  
Aide ­ Boston to South Bend for  cottage charm. Reasonable rates.  I NEED USC student tix  Rob x1581.  would like to thank all the people  
desperate Law Student, 10/21 or  Two night minimum. 232-2672  I NEED BC & USC GA'S  call Doug x1835  that have helped me in my coming  
10/22. Call Jay at634-4219.  CALL 288-2877  $  out process over the past 2 years  
Bed & Break1ast  NEEDED: 2 U$C tix Stud. or GA  $  especially: Preppy, Sunshine  
NEED EXTRA MONEY?  Room with private bath.  Wanted: 5 tickets to the Navy  Call273-9710  Saracino, Pumpkin Pie, Gaby, lzzy,  
HAVE A GOOD PHONE VOICE &  Accomodates two. For NO and  game. Either GA's or Students. Am  I Need USC tix  Bodacious Tatas, and all the folks  
6-8 HRS/WK TO MAKE CALLS  SMC parents and friends. 277­ willling to pay $$$$. Call Brian at  NEED 4 NAVY GA's.  Call Paul  at GLND/SMC  love Ynoll  
ABOUT MY PRODUCT?  6323.  x3061.  collect at (216) 974-7142.  -Bryan x1919  
THEN CALL JOHN DAVENPORT  Thank you St.Jude for prayers  
289-1993, ALLSTATE. FLEX HAS.  ,FOR SALE  Need one GA for Boston College. Willing to pay $$$$$$. Call Julie at  USC STUD FOR SALE OR TRADE (NAVY)  $ $  answered.  
START AT $12/HR.  284-5170.  CHRISTIAN 4X0506  2 plane tickets to Minneapolis for  
OFFICE NEAR CAMPUS  For Sale: 1988 Suzuki Samurai  Need USC GA's-Jeff x1 828  fall break. $65/ea OBO Call with  
Call Lisa 284-4295  Need ARMY tix!l Karen x3723  USC STUD TIC. 4 SALE  an offer-Kevin x0584  
NEED ride from NASHVILLE to  $100 OBO  Need USC tickets.  
N.D. on Oct. 27. Will help drive/gas.  Yamaha 400 Speciatii,MINT-$650,  NEED USC AND BC TIX  634-4532  Call Joe at X1610.  Calif. actress-Writer wife & photog­ 
call Kurt 4-0994. ASAP!  RCA 20" Colbrtrack-$175, Prince Synergy Tennis Raquet-$80,  STUDANDGA CALL MEG X4544  UNTIL THURS. MIO~~ ·  '""' I need u~'fr~k;ts. . ..  ~: ' .·  ..._.ri~P.J,J.w .~20 '!"iSiliflj~~q,pt,new­born. Will provide love, nurturing  
Wanted!  Kickboxing/Sparring gear-$80.  I need  Call Joe at X1 846.  environ., educ., financial security.  
Individuals, Student Organizations  234-1840.  Buy my SC ticket!  1 Navy Ticket  Hollywood Hills home has large  
to Promote  Taking best offer.  WILL TRADE 2 BC GA'S FOR 2  back yard and loving dog. Call  
SPRING BREAK Earn MONEY and  Melx1286  Steve  USC GA'S CALL (412)655-2565  818/241-5535 collect. Legal &  
FREE TRIPS  x1103  Confidential.  
CALL INTER-CAMPUS PRO·  For Sate: 1989 Acura Integra LS  I'M DESPERATE for your BC GA's  For my dad's 50th birthday I need  
GRAMS  Air Cond., Sunroof, AM/ FM Tape,  Please call ALISA 271-8346  Need USC GAs  at least one USC GA ticket. I am  DO YOU HAVE ANY USED EYE­ 
http://www.icpt.com  Good Condition. $5,800 neg.  Jeanne x4341  willing to pay big money. Call me  GLASSES?  
1·800·327 -6013  Call Betsy at 4-3229.  Need2 GAs4  Dan at x3543  NDCIBD IS COLLECTING OLD  
USC Call x2875  I NEED GA'S MEGAN X3890  EYEGLASSES TO SEND  
DRIVING 1-80 after 4pm Fri 13 ??  DESPERATELY NEED TWO NAVY  TO HONDURAS  
NEED ride to exit 3, 4 or 5 Pill area  1994 Suzuki Swift GA, 3 DR,  TIX FOR MOM AND DAD! Jessica-·  ST. MARY'S DINING HALL  
x4309  Stick,Biue,18,000 Miles,$ 6,700  NEED NAVY TIX!  REMEMBER THE GAME IS  X0705  SUN, OCT29,12-3  
Call after 3:30, 277-8115  AMY 616-473-2636  DURING FALL BREAK.  
ANYONE GOING TO ALBANY,  CALL DOUG@X-3686  DESPERATELY SEEKING 2 -4 BC  TRAVEL FREE FOR SPRING  
NY? I WOULD LIKE TO SEND A  Chest of drawers.Appr. 60"x36"x  Desperately need 4 Navy GA'slll ·  WILL PAY$$  TICKS FOR MY FAMILY! PLEASE  BREAK '96  
SMALL PACKET.CALL  15".Lots of drawers.$20.277-2560.  If I don't get them, my family won't  HELP ME! ERIK 3580  Form a group of 15 and travel  
NOMAN.277 -4269  pay for the operation to save my  Need 1 USC Ticket  Student or  FREE + earn $$$  
DOC MARTIN'S boots, w/ orig. box.  life. Call Mark at x1590.  GA.  Call Anne  x4B96.  Need 4 USC GAs  CANCUN, SOUTH PADRE,  
HELP  Never worn (retail $90). Will sell for  Chad X3384  BAHAMAS, FLORIDA, CARNIVAL  
unoffensive guy NEEDS  $80 obo.  Call Ed, 4-2113  Need 2 USC tix-Have 2 BC or 2  $$ PLEASE HELP$$  CRUISES. Food and Drinks includ­ 
a ride to TEXAS for fall break  Navy GAs to trade Also have $$$$  '94 ND ALUM NEEDS  Desperately seeking USC tix.  ed. (800)574-7577 ext. 302  
273-5281  1@#$11"%*"&%#@ @#$$%  Call Sara x4096  BC & USC STUD OR GA TIX  Have a BC ticket to offer.  
CALL 516-326-2659  Please call Kevin at x21 04  Ever wonder what it would be like  
Seeking in home child care for an  If you like BASS, you'll like this  NEED NO-USC GA TIX. CALL JOE  catching a flight to Seattle with a  
adorable baby. 1-4 days/wk  @ 287-4561 BEFORE 10 PM.  Desperately seeking  drunken fool who smells like shoe  
M-Th. 631-6561.  150 watt 15"  I HAVE 4 NAVY GA'S AND I AM  3 NAVY GAs.  polish?  -Chet  
SUBWOOFER  I NEED TWO NAVY GA'S AND 2-5  LOOKING FOR USC GA'S OR  Will pay BIG BUCKS.  
HELP WANTED  BC GA'S OR STUD TIX.  PLEASE  USC STUDENT TICKETS.  Call Ryan x0566.  Woody surfs the net for girls.  
10-30 hrs./flex. sched.  Call4-1668  CALLJENAT X1124  If you have USC tix, call  -Yaz  
All majors/schol. avail.  Tomatx3B93  NEED 4 USC STD TIX CALL x2855  
$10.25 I 282-2357  #@ $%&"*(()"&"%#$#$  NO ALUMNI NEEDS BC GA'SI  For sale: Old newspaper.  Already  
CALL JOE AT 708-470-6356.  USC student ticket for sale to  crumpled for your convenience.  
HELP WANTED addressing  best offer by Friday 3 PM. Call  Perfect for filling vacant dorm  
envelopes. Work at your residence  Spring Break Bahamas Party  Need 3 USC GA's and 1 BC Stud.  HELP! HELP! HELP! HELP!  Brian at x-3549 and leave best  rooms or very big litterboxes.  
in your spare lime. $250+/week  Cruise! Early Specials! 7 Days  Call Tom at x1899.  offer.  Call Uncle Moe in Stanford Hall at  
possible! (310)804-5587 24 hrs.  $2791 Includes 15 Meals & 6  I NEED USC AND BC TIX  867-5309.  
Parties! Great Beaches/Nightlife!  WE HAVE 2 USC STUD TIXII  as many as possible,  FOR SALE N.D. G A s  
Collector looking for 1995 magnetic  Prices Increase 11/21 & 12/151  BEST OFFER BY MIDNIGHT  students or GAs  call271-9412  I seem to have lost my jock strip in  
football schedule. Will pay over  Spring Break Travel1-800-670­ WED.CALL X4550  the grout paper fiasco. I think that  
cpst. Please t;all X1.1 03  6386  I need tickets to USC, BC, and  please call NORM @ 232-2955  PERSONAL  was the only thing I lost... -Beth's Bro.  
$35,000/YA. INCOME potential.  Navy. Please call Bryan.  ThanksforyourSupportl  
Reading books. Toll Free 800-898­ Spring Break! Panama City! Early  272-4249  What has 2 thumbs and loves  
9778 Ext. R-2013 for details.  Specials! 8 Days Oceanview Room  0c0c0o0c0c0c0c0o0c0c0  grout? Call x2042  
With Kitchen $1291 Walk To Best  need student tix for USC,  4-3504  QUALITY COPIES, QUICKL Yl!l  
$40,000/YR. INCOME potential.  Bars! Key West $259! Cocoa Beach  THE COPY SHOP  Way to go Purple Weasels! Hynes  
Home typists/PC users. Toll Free  Hilton $1691 Prices Increase 11/21  Need NAVY GA's Chris x4010  ND ALUM NEEDS 2 OR 4 TICK­ LaFortune Student Center  is in his happy place and Tommy's  
800-898-9778 Ext. T-2013 for list­ & 12/151 1-800-678-6386  ETS TO BC GAME OCT. 26. CALL  Phone 631-COPY  pissed.  OOOh-yeahl  
ings.  I HAVE 2 50YRD LN BC TIX GA  COLLECT (810)269-9022 OR JEN­ 0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0c0o0o0  
and 4 GA NAVY TIX. I NEED 4  NYMIKE@ AOL.COM  Lisa, I thought you said your name  
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break  USC TIX STD/GA. call Davex2100  was never in the personals ... ?  
Desperately seeking a ride to  Specials! 111% Lowest Price  HELP! HELP! HELP! Alumnus des­ Have you turned  
D.C. area for break. Will pay for  Guarantee! 7 Nights Air From South  Not coming back from break?  perately needs 5 USC tix. Please  in your  JPW kicks A __.  
gas. Call x0607, ask for David.  Bend & Hotel From $419! Book  I need 4 USC STUD TIX  caii215-9B8-1788 day, or 215-836­ LONDON PROGRAM  
Early! Save $100 On Food/Drinks!  Call Frank -3389  9150 home.  APPLICATION???  Love that color scheme, metallic  
LosAngeles!  Spring Break Travel 1-800-678­ gold...Wowl  
Need someone to drive a '91 Camry 6 cyl. to LosAngeles. Arrive there any1ime before Nov. 3rd. (219) 233-3711.  6386.I  TICKETS  Need 1-2 USC GA's x1426 I need a ticket to PH ISH, Kalamazoo, 10-27, call2074  Selling your BC ticket?? Call Kelly @ 277-9695 Need many tickets for USC  I need a ride 2 NJ 4 break .... can u help? please call Kristen x2342  Some redheads make my Italian blood boil. -Potter  

Need ride to Boston/Providence Area for fall break. Will pay for gas. Good company. 4-3306 ask for Mark A DEVOTED IRISH FAN NEEDS GA'S TO ANY/ALL HOME/AWAY GAMES. 219-232-0061,24 HRS. 

need student B.C. ticket. X2074 
I HAVE USC STUD TIX 4 SALE 1-6696 
Please call Travis at X2091. 
NEED ND-USC TICKETS CALL BILL 233-5719 
Need a ride to Boston for Fall Break. Call Patti 284-5022 Will pay gas and tolls since when has there been a sand dune in front of Farley? 

yippee for texas ... 

Wednesday, October 11, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• COLLEGE' fOOTBALL 

Badgers on horizon Bowden curse haunts Spurrier 

for Cooper, OSU 

By PAUL NEWBERRY 
Associated Press 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. 
It's an all-too-familiar ques­tion for Florida coach Steve Spurrier: Why can't he beat the Bowdens? 
Spurrier didn't even wait to hear it Tuesday at his weekly media conference, where he discussed the upcoming game 149between No. 3 Florida and Terry Bowden's seventh-ranked Auburn Tigers. 
"How about the Bowden question?" asked Spurrier, who has an 0-2 record against Terry and a 1-4-1 mark against his father, Florida State coach Bobby Bowden. 
What followed was a sequence intended to show that Spurrier doesn't put special fo­cus on the Bowdens, but may have wound up revealing the opposite. 
"I've got a losing rec.ord against a lot of guys, not just those two," Spurrier said. "You want a list?" 
He had to go back to his days coaching Duke and the USFL's Tampa Bay Bandits to find them. "Danny Ford. George Welsh. Bill Dooley. Joe Krivak. Yeah, Krivak beat us (Duke) two out of three at Maryland. And there's Hollie Dotsch in the USFL." 
Spurrier quipped that he was 1-1 against ESPN analyst Lee Corso. who also coached in the United States Football League. 
"Not that's embarrassing, isn't it?" Spurrier said. "That was my all-time low." 
As for his record against the Bowdens, Spurrier insisted that it doesn't keep him awake at night. 
"No, it doesn't bother me," he said. "Shoot, it you're going to lose to somebody, you might as well lose to teams that don't lose very often." 
But Spurrier is a proud, demanding, sometimes arro­gant man who revels in the suc­cess of his alma mater since he took over at coach in 1990. Three Southeastern Conference championships. Another year when the Gators had the best record in the league but were ineligible for the title because of NCAA probation. 
Spurrier can even recite his record in the USFL against cur­rent New Orleans Saints coach 

Courtesy of Flol1da Sports Information Florida head coach Steve Spurrier will try and end his winless streak against Terry Bowden when the Gators take on Auburn. 
Jim Mora -"When you count onship. the exhibition games, we. were That was followed up last one up, but in the regular sea-year by a 31-31 tie in which the son games he was one up on Seminoles rallied from a 28­us" -so it's obvious he gives point deficit in the fourth quar­more than a passing thought to ter, then a 23-17 loss to FSU in the Bowdens. a Sugar Bowl rematch. 
Other than his failure to win a No wonder the "Bowden national championship, the Curse" is such a sore subject father-son tandem are the only around Gainesville. chink in the sterling record of "I hate hearing that," defen­"Coach Superior," who has his sive lineman Mark Campbell team en route to another SEC said Tuesday. "What does that title with a 5-0 mark entering have to do with the game? I Saturday's game at Auburn (4-hate hearing people say that. 1). We just have to go play our best 
Spurrier's lone success game. We can't worry if coach against the Bowdens was a 14-Spurrier hasn't beaten the 9 triumph over Florida State in Bowdens. Coach Spurrier is not 1991 -and the last two years on the field, he just calls the have been especially galling. plays." 
Since arriving at Auburn in 1993, Terry Bowden has pulled Bowden remembered that his off two upsets over the Gators, father lost six straight years to including a last-minute, 36-33 Florida in the 1980s. 
By RUSTY MILLER 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 
Two down and one to go through a demanding three­game stretch against ranked teams, Ohio State coach John Cooper isn't spending much time celebrating. 
"I feel like you're only as good as your last victory," Cooper said Tuesday during his weekly news conference. 
If that's the case, then Cooper feels good. The Buckeyes came from behind in the fourth quar­ter to bea.t then-No. 12 .Penn State 28-25 last week. The week before, Ohio State tripped Notre Dame, ranked 15th at the time, 45-26 in the first meeting between the schools in 59 years. 
Now 5-0 on the year, count­ing victories over ranked teams in their first two games (Boston College and Washington), the Buckeyes are up to fourth in the nation. That's the Buckeyes' highest ranking since two years ago -the week leading up to the last time they traveled to Wisconsin. 
Cooper said he has no sense of relief in knocking off Notre Dame and Penn State in suc­cession. 
"I don't think relief's the right word. I'm happy we got out of them unbeaten. But I don't feel like, 'Hey, we won these two games, I don't have te do anything else.' I don't look at it that way," he said. 
One big reason is the Buckeyes are now faced with the game at 21st-ranked Wis­consin Saturday. The Badgers (2-1-1) had last week off after ending Penn State's 20-game winning streak with a 17-9 vic­tory in State College. 
There are many reasons for Ohio State to be diligent. In the 1985 game, Earle Bruce's Buckeyes were ranked fifth in 1985 and lost 12-7. Just two years ago, Ohio State was third in the nation going into Madison and was fortunate to escape with a 14-14 tie that ul­timately left the teams tied for the Big Ten title. 
"I don't think that has any­thing to do with it," Cooper said of the 1993 trip. "Hopefully, we're intelligent enough to realize that we're playing a good team and it's a hostile environment and they've had an extra week to get ready for us." 
Asked if his team would be in a "terrific" position in the Big Ten race if it beat the Badgers, Cooper said, "I think that's the worst attitude we can take: If we win this week then, 'Oh, we're over the hump and the rest of them are going to be easy.' I would hope we're smart enough that. that doesn't happen." 
"I don't think players should have to take verbal abuse in any stadium, including our sta­dium," he said. 


victory to knock Florida from "It's just one of those things," the No. 1 ranking last season. Terry said of the Bowden domi­Florida State, meanwhile, nance over Spurrier. "We don't became the first visiting team make a big deal out of it. I per­
COUPLES GROUP 
to win at Florida Field during sonally consider (Spurrier), the Spurrier era on its way to next to my dad, the best offen­the 1993 national champi-sive coach there is out there." 
Are you a married couple who is seeking to enrich your marriage and to understand your partner better? 
Would you like to get together over lunch, or possible other times, to discuss relevant issues and challenges of living your vocation? 
If you can answer yes to these two questions, then you may wish to inquire about a new Couples Group that is being formed through the Office of Campus Ministry at the University of Notre Dame. 
Please contact Chris Etzel orjohn and Sylvia Dillon, Directors ofMarriage Preparation and Enrichment, at 631-5242, Campus Ministry, Badin Hall. 
All aerobics classes are 1/2 off after break! Spots are still open. Start your




0MPUS 

winter workout today!
MINISTRY 


page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, October 11, 1995 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 




Wolcott delivers upset victory 
Newspaper heir 
By BEN WALKER 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE 
All the Seattle Mariners asked Bob Wolcott to give them was a few good innings. Instead, the 22-year-old rookie gave them a game to remember forever. 
Wolcott, pitching because the Mariners had no one else, pulled one of baseball's great­est escapes, wriggling free from a bases-loaded, no-outs jam in the first inning and beating the Cleveland Indians 3-2 Tuesday night in their AL playoff open­er. 
"It was definitely nerve­wracking," Wolcott said. "It's a tremendous relief. Anything could have happened. We could've gotten blown out." 
"We used so much of our pitching staff in the other series, I just wanted to give them a rest," he said. "I have to admit, I had my doubts in the first inning. But it all worked out." 
Showing poise that belied his baby face, Wolcott -added to the postseason roster Monday and making only his eighth major-league appearance ­spent the whole evening putting himself in trouble and then get­ting out. The only sign of stress was the sweat creeping out far­ther and farther on the bill of his cap. 
"It was hard work out there," he said. 
Meanwhile, Luis Sojo's tiebreaking double off Dennis Martinez in the seventh inning whipped the Kingdome crowd of 57,065 further into a frenzy, and stopped the Indians' march through the postseason. 
Cleveland, coming off a three­game sweep of Boston in the opening round, will try to get even in the best-of-7 series Wednesday night when Orel Hershiser starts Game 2 against Tim Belcher. 
At the outset, it looked as if 
the Indians might run away 
with this game. Wolcott, who 
began the season at Double-A 
Port City, walked the bases 
loaded by throwing balls on 12 
of his first 13 pitches to Kenny 
Lofton, Omar Vizquel and 
Carlos Baerga. 
In fact, his first six pitches 
were balls, prompting a visit 
from manager Lou Piniella. 
"He just said try to relax and 
throw strikes," the right-han­
der said.· ·~The same things the 
manager always says." 
Piniella recalled it a little dif­
ferently. 
"I told him I didn't care if we 
got beat 11-0," Piniella said. "I 
told him we needed five 
innings." 
By then, the weary bullpen, 
which the Mariners hoped 
Wolcott would give a break, 
was already warming up. 
Wolcott had other things on his 

BASEBALL PLAYOFF BRACKET 

purchases Pirates 

DIVISION SERIES LEAGUE CHAMPIONSHIP (best-of-5) SERIES (best-of-7) 
By ALAN ROBINSON 
Oct. 3-B Oct.1Q-18 
mind -facing the team that led the majors in batting, scor­ing and home runs, he was about to see the heart of the or­der. 
"I didn't notice who it was, but I knew the 'pen was going," Wolcott said. 
Somehow, Wolcott found a way. 
First, he struck out Albert Belle, getting the slugger who hit 50 home runs to swing through a high, 2-2 fastball. 
Next up was Eddie Murray, a career .413 hitter with the bases loaded. Murray, like Belle, swung and the first pitch and he fouled out. 
"As much as anything, I think we got a little impatient," Indians manager Mike Hargrove said. 
With the crowd sensing it was seeing something special, Wolcott ended the inning, thanks to a diving stop by sec­ond baseman Joey Cora on Jim Thome's hard grounder up the middle. 
Wolcott paused for a moment to watch the completion of the play, then ran off the mound as the Mariners rushed from the dugout to greet him. First to meet him was Randy Johnson, who patted the rookie on the chest as other teammates gath­ered around. 
"We let Wolcott get out of the first inning. That kind of set the tone," Hargrove said. "We sure knew we missed a golden opportunity." 
Johnson, the ace, could not pitch because he started Friday and relieved Sunday in the decisive Game 5 against New York. Belcher and Chris Bosio also worked during the week­end and were not available to start, so it was up to Wolcott, 

We extend love and support to our lesbigat children and friends on National Coming Out Day. 
Dedicated to education, support, and advocacy. Monthly meetings of Michiana Chapter. For further information, call Nancy Mascotte at (219) 277-2684. 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH 

Kevin McClatchy apparently ended the Pittsburgh Pirates' 14-month search for a new buyer Tuesday, making a $1 million down payment after completing a purchase agree­ment to keep the team from moving. 
McClatchy, who at 32 would be the youngest owner ever in the majors, will spend the next three weeks lining up additional partners before a signed deal is submitted to baseball owners for approval. 
The Pirates' 10 owners voted unanimously Tuesday to approve the purchase agree­ment. McClatchy, a California newspaper heir, immediately posted a $1 million deposit, with an additional $2 million due once the deal goes to 
who went 3-2 in his first big baseball's ownership commit­
league season and had not 
tee. The $3 million would beworked since Sept. 17. 
forfeited if McClatchy is notWolcott stranded two more approved by Feb. 1.
runners in the second and got Ten of 14 NL owners mustPaul Sorrento to ground into a approve the purchase along
bases-loaded double play to end the third. In all, the Indians 
with eight of 14 AL owners. left 10 runners on base in 
McClatchy, a longshot when Wolcott's career-high seven 
he entered into negotiations innings. Lofton did the most 
in early September, will pay damage, going 3-for-3 with two 
about $85 million for the 109­walks, and Belle later homered. 
year-old franchise. He has 
After that, the bullpen did its commitments for about $50 
job as Jeff Nelson and Norm million in cash, plus a $50Charlton preserved the win for million line of credit. 
Wolcott, with Charlton going 1 "People have told me I don't 1-3 innings for a save. 
stand a chance," McClatchy said. "They've written off baseball and they've written off baseball in Pittsburgh, but baseball is alive in Pittsburgh. This is a very significant day for the Pirates." 
"I wouldn't be putting up my own money if I wasn't sure we could get this done," McClatchy said. 
McClatchy has the support of NL president Len Coleman, who pledged to speed the approval process if necessary. 
U.S. Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, also promised to do any necessary arm-twisting. 
"We're extremely positive," Coleman said at the NL play­offs in Cincinnati. "A deal's never done until the i's are dotted the t's are crossed and the signatures are on the page, but what we're seeing is forward movement. If it meets the guidelines, I think the spirit of baseball is, 'Let's get it done.' " 
McClatchy's investors are an eclectic mix that includes Miami Dolphins quarterback Dan Marino, scrap-metal dealer Bill Snyder, Indy-race car owner Chip Ganassi, golf course developer Dick Means, pickle maker H.J. Heinz Co., Heniz chairman Anthony J.F. O'Reilly and Dennis Heindl, a metal-parts manufacturer who once was on welfare. 
With the score 2-2 in the sev­enth, Jay Buhner doubled and Mike Blowers reached on a throwing error by Thome at 
Please Recycle The Observer 
third. 


We have started to take applications for next year. 
Furnished apartments­swimming pool-jacuzzi­tennis, volleyball, & basketball courts­24 hour laundry-shuttle bus­professional management. 
*Apartments available for your selection.* 
For more information cal/272-1441. 
Wednesday, October 11, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 


Devereaux steps in to lead Braves in extra innings 
By JOE KAY Associated Press 
CINCINNATI 

On a night of empty seats and empty bases, Mike Devereaux kept the Atlanta Braves from coming up empty. 
Devereaux singled home the g_o-ahead run in the 11th inning Tuesday night for a 2-1 victory over the Cincinnati Heds in the first game of the NL champi­onship series. 
John Smoltz, who has beaten the Heds three times this sea­son, will oppose John Smiley, who has never won a playoff game, in Game 2 Wednesday night at Hiverfront Stadium. 
There were more than 10,000 
empty seats when the first pitch 
was thrown Tuesday on a clear, 
69-degree evening, a sign that 
baseball still has a long way to 
go to win back fans. The Reds 
sold only 40,382 tickets and 
had 3,620 no-shows. 
And the Braves left them fil­
ing out silently by pulling off 
their third comeback or the 
playoffs. 
David Justice tied it in the 
ninth with an RBI forceout, and 
1--:red McGriff drew a leadoff 
walk in the 11th off Mike 
Jackson. Luis Polonia sacri­
ficed, and Devereaux -a late­
inning defensive replacement 
-lined a single up the middle. 
Brad Clontz gave up a leadoff 
double to Thomas Howard in 
the bottom of the 11th, and 
Steve Avery -demoted to the 
bullpen for the playoffs -came 
in and walked pinch-hitter 
Mariano Duncan. .u 
1 
Greg McMichael then got Reg­gie Sanders to ground to short­stop, starting a game-ending double play. 
The two starting pitchers gave the stunningly small crowd little to cheer. Tom Glavine allowed just one run on Ron Gant's infield single in the fourth, and Pete Schourek took a four-hit shutout into the ninth before Atlanta pulled off its third late-inning comeback of the playoffs. 
Reds manager Davey Johnson let Schourek try for only his second career shutout, but it quickly backfired. 
Chipper Jones opened with a single -only the fifth hit off the left-bander -and took third on McGriffs single. 
David Justice then hit a grounder to second baseman Bret Boone, who was able only to get the force at second. Johnson pulled Schourek after he bounced a breaking ball for a wild pitch on his 102nd pitch, putting the go-ahead run in scoring position. 
Cincinnati's defense, which helped Schourek all night, then saved reliever Jeff Brantley. Darren Lewis, a defensive replacement in center field in the ninth, went to his knees to steal a hit away on Javy Lopez's sinking liner. 
Brantley got pinch-hitter Dwight Smith to fly out with the bases loaded, ending the ninth­inning rally. 
Atlanta's formidable starting rotation was the talk of the series coming in, but Schourek reminded that Atlanta doesn't have a monopoly on pitching. 

The night's loudest cheers went to Schourek, who spent most of his career getting booed. The lowly New York Mets simply gave up on him last season, shipping him out on waivers. 
A new delivery and new con­fidence turned him into an 18­game winner and won him the Game 1 assignment against a team that pounded him for five runs in six innings the only other time he faced them this year. 
Things were much different right from the start this time. Schourek tamed the Braves' predominantly left-handed line­up, allowing just four singles while striking out eight. Underscoring his dominance, the Braves didn't get a runner to second base until the ninth. 
Glavine was just a shade less effective, allowing seven hits and one run over seven innings. He induced four double plays to extend his streak of superlative pitching at Riverfront -13-1 with two no-decisions. 
The Reds' only run was set up in the fourth when Barry Larkin exploited the Braves' defensive strategy. 
Atlanta likes to play Larkin to hit up the middle or to the opposite field, a strategy the shortstop exploited by pulling a grounder down the third-base line for a lead-ofT triple. Gant, a former Brave looking for re­venge, followed with a grounder to the hole at short­stop that he easily beat out for his second hit of the game. 
.,.. ...,. •UJ ..:>~.lUh 



Yours and yours alone. 

Power Macintosh" 7200fi5 w/CD 
8MB RAM/500MB harddrive, Power PC 601 processor, CD-ROM drive, 15" ro/or mo11i/or, keyboard and mouse.






MAC. 
The awesome computer with all the bells and whistles. 

ASAP. 
~ 
We mean like yesterday. 
Macintosh Performa• 6214CD 
8MB RAM/1000MB hard drive, Power PC 603 processor, quadspeed CD-ROM drive, 15" ro/or riUmilor, keyboard, fll()use and all /he S()jiwareyoure likeb• to r1mi. 
RIGHT NOW AT YOUR CAMPUS RESELLER. Unfortunately, they won't stay this low forever. So you need to forget about how hardyour life is for a Being astudent is hard. So we've made buying aMacintosh" easy. So easy, in fact, that the minute and start thinking about how easy it will be with aMacintosh. The com-Ap 1 .;. prices on Macintosh personal computers are now even lower than their already low student prices. puter that gives you the power any student can use. The power to be your best~ p1e.. 


Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB •631-7477 M-F 9am-5pm 
Produclprices, producl avatlablllly altll sales taxes may l'llry. Offer expires Oclober /3, 1995-©1995 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved, Apple, the Apple logo, Macintosh, Macintosh Performa, PowerBook, LaserWriter Selecl, Coler SlyleWriler and ••71Je power lo beyour best" are registered tradmzarkr ofApple Computer, Inc. Power Macintosh and Mac are trademarks ofApple Computer, Inc, Cart/Shop Plus~-a registered trademark offt!lndscape. All Apple"products are designed to be accessible to ind/t!ltiUIJis with disability. 1b learn I1UJ1'e (US. only), Cllii800-776·W3 or 7VD 800-IUJ-6m. 
-. 

The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, October 11, 1995 
•NFL 

Carter struggles after quick start 
By R.B. FALLSTROM 
Associated Press 

ST. LOUIS 
Sean Gilbert's not the only player the St. Lol!is Rams have missed on the defensive line. 
It's been a rocky rookie sea­son for first-round pick Kevin Carter, the other end. 
''I'm OK," Carter said. "The guys around me are keeping me going." 
Coach Rich Brooks said Carter played "extremely well" the first two or three games. 
"I think he's leveled off and has not played up to his capa­bilities the last couple of games," Brooks said. "I'm hoping he'll turn the dial back up and become a force again like he was early in the sea­son." 
Carter has started all five games for the Rams (4-1), and had two sacks and a fumble recovery in the first three. 
He got a game ball after get­ting a sack and recovering a Jack Trudeau fumble in a vic­tory over Carolina on Sept. 17. 
But in the two games Gilbert missed with a knee injury, he was extremely quiet with two tackles. He takes some of the blame from the coach for the fact the Rams had 11 sacks the first three games and none the last two. 
"He hasn't made very many plays," Brooks said. "Read the numbers. Pass rush, runs, just tackles, pressure on the quarterback. When you're in there as much as he plays, he needs to make more plays." 
Carter will get some help when Gilbert returns for Thursday night's game against Atlanta, but the Rams didn't make him the sixth selection of the draft -and the first defensive player taken -to be a complemen­tary player. 
In his senior year at Florida, Carter had 11 1/2 sacks and 21 1/2 tackles for losses. 
"I knew it'd be harder, but it's not a world of difference," Carter said. "There's a change, definitely, but people do it every year and I played a pretty high level in college. 
"I think I'm ready for it, and if I'm not, it's here anyway." 
The Rams made the transi­tion easier for Carter by flip­flopping he and Gilbert so he could play on the left side, where he was a three-year starter at Florida. 
"That was their call, but I'm a lot more comfortable on that side," Carter said. "That's where I feel at home." 
A bigger adjustment has been the competition. 
"I think Carter has a test every week he goes out in this league," Brooks said. "In col­lege, you might have one or two guys at that position that are really good out of an 11­game schedule. 
"He's facing guys that are really good every week, and some of them are better than really good. Some of them are great." 
Carter also has to get used to six weeks of training camp followed by a 16-game sched­ule. He said he needed a break mentally when the Rams got a bye last weekend. 

Injuries 
continued from page 20 

The secondary will a key in stopping Army's wishbone at­tack, which, if executed well, can be the most dangerous of­fensive set in football. 
"It's an offense based on exe­cution," he said. "To defend them, you have to be very well disciplined on defense." 
To defend against the option perfectly, the Irish would need 14 players on the field at once. So even though they're facing a 1-2-1 Cadet team, there are bound to be holes somewhere. 
"Believe me, you can take in­ferior personnel, and if you ex­ecute that sucker the right way, nobody can stop you," Holtz said. "Because of the numbers needed." 
Holtz will be in the press box at the Meadowlands Saturday for Notre Dame's clash with Army, a team he has never faced. But he does have the numbers on his side. He's 17-0 in his career against service academies and his team is 8-0 when playing in the Meadow­lands. 
"Our doctors have convinced me that I need to be up in the box, at least for this week," Holtz said. "I understand the doctors at the Mayo Clinic are upset with me." 
They're not too happy be­cause he coached from the sidelines at Ohio State, even when he felt at the time he wasn't ready. 
"It's just common sense," he said. "You don't move as much up there, so you're not as phys­ically exhausted. I felt much better after Washington than I did after Ohio State." 
But it proves that the fire is still there. And it will continue to be there for some time to come. 
"All things considered, I have enjoyed myself this year," he said. "I have every intention of coming back next year. Re­tirement means you have something to run to, something you want to do more than coaching. And at this time, nothing attracts me more than coaching. 
"My wife and I have been married for 34 years," he con­tinued. "It's not because I'm an easy guy to get along with. It's because she hasn't had anybody she's wanted to run to. I'm sure she would have run away from me on several occasions." 

FIT WALK FOR ALCOHOL AWARENESS WEEK WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 11-4:00 p.m.-LaFortune "Care about a 
for 

Travel Broadens the Mind 
Ireland Program 
Information Sessions: 
TONIGHT OCT. 11 7:00P.M. Room 303 Haggar College Center Saint Mary's Campus 
Students discuss curriculum and sports at St. Patrick's College, Maynooth 
APPLICATIONS DISTRIBUTED 
We're lookingfor people who look at this glass and say: 
"There's gotta be other glasses of water." 
We need people capable ofgoing beyond half-full or half-empty thinking. People who see subtleties. Who are quite frankly bored by easy answers and off-the-shelf solutions. 
People who are constantly challenging their own thinking and are thirsty for new ideas and knowledge. 
You'll have a degree from a top school. Getting a job won't really be an issue. The question is: which job? Which industry? 
You don't want to get locked into one area and then discover three to five years from now that you don't like it. By then you've invested too much. 
@ 1990 Andersen Consull~ng, AA &Co.. S.C. 


Professional Education in St. Charles, Illinois, is just one measure of our commitment. We train you for a career-notjust a job. 
Are you the kind of person we're talking about? The kind of person with an unquenchable desire for challenge and professional growth? 
If so, come talk to us. And find out more about a career with Andersen Consulting. 

ANDERSEN CONSULTING 
ARTiiUR ANDERSEN & CO, S.C. 

Where we go from here~ 
Andersen Consulting offers you the chance to work on a variety of projects-with clients in a wide range of industries. 

We are the leader in helping organizations apply information technology to their business advan­tage. Every hour ofevery business day, we implement a solution to help one ofour more than 5,000 clients worldwide. 
What makes that possible is the quality ofour people. And the quality ofour training. We're known for both. 
Because business and tech­nology are ever -changing, we see training as a continuing process. And our $123-million Center for 
Andersen Consulting is an equal opportunity 
employer. 

Andersen Consulting will conduct screening interviews on Monday, October 23. Please sign up at the Placement Office. 
Wednesday, October 11 , 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
•NBA 
•NFL 
Webber hopes to be a 


Lions change attitude, results 
mentor to rookie Wallace By HARRY ATKINS to 35 yards in Minnesota and to sneak back into the NFC 
Associared Press 24 yards by San Francisco. playoffs.
Asaodated Preu ing hard and it wasn't really Through the first four games, They dug themselves a deepme showing him up or him try­
PONTIAC, Mich. 

the most electrifying runner hole with their 0-3 start. ButSHEPHERDSTOWN, W.Va. ing to show me up. He's the Detroit coach Wayne Fontes in the NFL h1;1.d rushed for stranger things have hap·In only two years in the NBA, one I'll be going to war with. 
agreed with his players that just 314 yards. pened. San Diego once got off Chris Webber has been traded That's my big fella." 
they needed to keep things 
Uttla wonder the Lions lost to an 0·4 start and still gotsimple after the Lions lost three of those four gam~s. into the playoffs. And the twice, gone through three sets Wallace understood. 
of contract talks and feuded "That was all in fun," he with his coach. said. "I do it, too." their rrrst three games, But when the Browns Lions have historically been 
At the ripe age of 22, Webber Wallace, the fourth pick in The Lions are still a game brought half their secondary strong finishers. is ready. to . help his· new the 1995 draft out of North under ,500, but tha improved up to stop the run, Mitchell ''My whole approach is that Washington Bullets' teammate, Carolina, had a pair of dunks in play of quarterbac~ Scott was able to complete some we're going to go after people Hasheed Wallace, avoid similar the second half, the second a Mitchell has helped the team passes. Herman Moore and not take a passive
pitfalls. tomahawk slam off a no-look win two straight. caught nine for 125 yards, approach, not let the game"Everybody has a lot to learn, pass from Howard. During the disappointing 
Brett Perriman caught six for come to us," Mitchell said. "I
but being a rookie is a real sen­"l think by having Chris, start, Mitchell completed jugt 
78 yards. don't know if it's being moresitive situation," Webber said Juwan and myself on the court 
62 of 105 pat:~ses for four 
"You ride him (Mitchell) comfortable with a situation.
Monday. shortly after signing a we can have contests with stuff 
touchdowns, with two 
when he's hot for as long as I'm not a screamer· or asix-year, $59 million deal. like dunks or rebounds," interceptions. His rating was youca.n,'' Moore said. "It yeller, but I like a good
"Here's a guy who's one of Wallace said. "It will help us on 
the four best players in college the court." 83.4. feels real good to go out and tempo. going into the NBA," he said of Webber, a member of the During a meeting, the play· score some points like we did, "I think we:ve upped our ers suggested Fontes simplify tempo the last couple of
Wallace. "I'm really not the Fab Five with Howard at but we can still improve a type of guy to give a lot of Michigan, said he was im­the offense. lot." weeks. That's what I'm trying advice, but if he needs me, I'm pressed with Wallace's athletic Presto! In the naxt two The Browns finally had to to focus on: Get into the hud· there. The worst thing you can ability. games, Mitchell complete(! 52 back off and defend against dle, call the play, get to the have is a guy who thinks he "He's going to be one of the of 80 passes for 564 yards. As Mitchell's passing attack. line of scrimmage and run it. 
knows it all." ones out there with me and a result, the Lions defeated When they did, he handed the Then start over."
It didn't take long for Webber Juwan. It's going to be great," the San Francisco 49ers and ball to Sanders. As a result,to teach Wallace a few things Webber said. 
Cleveland Browns. Sanders ran for 157 yards lt all sounds so simple. So. 
on the court during the team's After two tumultuous years in "The best thing happening and three touchdowns, one a what took so long?
preseason scrimmage at the NBA, Webber said he final­
now. is his confidence is com· 
75-yard sprint. "I think the difference is the Shepherd College. ly feels at home. The 6-foot-10 
ing," quarterbacks coach "!think we have good hal· attitude," Mitchell said.
In the first quarter, Webber forward will be playing with a Greg Landry said of Mitchell. arice because our quarter· "We're not sitting back andskied over the rookie big man secure contract, in front of fans 
for a dunk. who adore him and for an "He's an accurate past:~er, back is playing much better feeling our way through a and I think we're doing things 
Webber proceeded to lead his owner who admires him. and we have good receivers," game." b1ue squad to an 84-64 victory Webber, traded from Orlando he likes to do.'' Fontes said, "If we keep The bottom line is that the over the white team, which to Golden State during the With the passing game final· proving we can throw the l.ions are still 2·3 as they pre·included Wallace and the 1993 draft, didn't find happi­ly beginning to click, running ball, I think you'll see Barry's pare for a game in Green Bay Bullets' other coveted young­ness in California. After feuding lanes have begun to open for production improve even this week. But if they con· 
ster, Juwan Howard. with then-coach Don Nelson, he Barry Sanders. mora." tinue to be flexible, the Lions
"I've played with Rasheed forced the Warriors to trade Cleveland often had as many Sanders won his second NFL could still make a run in thealready so I know he probably him to the Bullets in November. 
as eight men near the line of 
rushing title in 1994 with NFC Central.
wouldn't take it the wrong The one-year contract he 
scrimmage. Teams had been 1,883 yard,s, the fourth-high· "Scott is developing a cEJr·way," Webber said. "We were signed with Washington left doing that to the Lions all est total in NFL history. If he tain confidence level everyout there goofing off and work-him with an uncertain future. 
season. can come anywhere close to week," Moore said. "He's had -;AI) a result, Sanders had 
_pumbers lij(e Jhat. th\$ s~a.son, it all along, but he's startil).g
nowheYtf''to run. He was hetd 
the Lions might just be· able to show it now." 

V-ball 
continued from page 20 
has been developing through­out the course of the season. 
In the third game, the Belles were behind 0-5, but they maintained their poise and came back to win the game. Schroeder-Biek attributes the win to the team's concentration on their goal. 
"We made good choices," she said. "Our passing was not the best-it was not horrible, but it could have been crisper. If we 


Turtle Creek Apartments 
will start handing out applications for the 1996-1997 school year starting Thursday, October 12th between the hours of 10 a.m.-12 p.m. and 3 p.m.-5 p.m. only. Apartment availability is on a first come first serve basis. Applications cannot be 
could have passed, everything would have ran smoothly. Primarily, our back row saved us." 
Outside attacker Kelley Prosser, who led the team with 18 kills, felt that the back row was stronger on Tuesday, but was still a far cry from perfect. 
"We could have won a lot quicker," said Prosser. "We sat on the 12 point too long for two of our games. It was not a per­fect game, but there was a lot of improvement from our game against Madonna over the weekend. In Madonna, we lost our focus a few times. Tuesday night, however, we never had a problem getting back into the game." 
The team's setter Meyer was satisfied with the team's per­formance, but identified their recurring problem of relaxing and giving themselves a chance. 
"We did a good job playing up instead of playing down," Meyer said. "Our communica­tion was better, enabling us to tend a few holes. We still were not as relaxed as we should have, however." 
The team's focus for the re­mainder of the week will be on their away game Saturday against Kalamazoo, one of their long-term rivals. Although Kalamazoo is ranked fifth in the nation, the Belles refuse to let it intimidate them on Saturday. 
"Kalamazoo was ranked ninth in the nation when we played them last year," said Prosser, "and they were not so outstanding. We need to approach the game unintimi­dated by their ranking. We must treat the game as if it was any other game through staying focused." 
Middle-attacker Sara Stron­czek affirmed Prosser's notion through insisting that if the team plays at their highest level of intensity on Saturday, an up­set would not be surprising. 
"If we can keep our level of intensity and play high, we can upset them," Stronczek offered. 
HURRY !!! HURRY !!! LONDON PROGRAM APPLICATIONS ARE DUE ON OR BEFORE 

5:00PM

mailed and are available at the Turtle 
FRIDAY, October 13

Creek leasing office only, Monday­
IN 103 O'SHAG

Friday during hours indicated above. 


page 18 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, October 11, 1995 

Purple Weasels finish perfect regular season 

The Observer/Brent Tadsen Allison Kriegel carries the ball for P.W. in their 13-8 victory over Siegfried, keeping them undefeated. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 

"The Big Green" (PG) 
2:00, 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 

"Steal Big, Steal LIHie" (PG-13) 
2:15, 5:00, 8:15 
2:30, 5:30, 8:30 
"Desperado" 
1:30, 4:15, 7:15, 9:40 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Spans Writer 

Pasquerilla West stepped on the field Tuesday night in hopes of continuing their undefeated ways. The Purple Weasels faced off against the Siegfried Slammers and did exactly that downing Siegfried 13-8. 
The Slammers couldn't con­vert on their last possession as the tenacious Weasels' defense made one last stand. On fourth and goal, the Weasel's Amanda Cahill, batted down the Slam­mers' pass to ensure the vic­tory. 
Both teams started strongly, and posted scores on the board midway through the first half. Siegfried started to heat up un­der the leadership of quarter­back Jen Laurie. 
Once again, she looked strong, not only in her passing, but also in her rushing. She connected twice with Rebecca Graybill, including one connection for the touchdown. 
A spectacular effort was made by Trisha Schafnitz, on the extra point, to evade three tacklers as she rushed for the end zone as Siegfried took the lead 8-7. 
The Purple Weasels scored on their next possession when Weasel's quarterback, Liz McKillop found Mary Laflin for a large gain. Then McKillop found the tight end Kelly McMahon cutting in the middle of the endzone for the touch­down. The Weasels failed on their extra point attempt mak­ing the score 13-8. 
Weasels' McKillop stated this about her team's performance, "We didn't play as well as we wanted to. However, we are looking to step it up for the playoffs and the champi­onship." 
Pasquerilla East 12, Lewis 0 
The Pasquerilla East Pyros and the Lewis Chicken matched up evenly for one half. The defensive efforts by each team dominated the play. 
Then the Pyros took control in the second half by scoring two touchdowns, securing a 12-0 victory over the Chickens. 
The Pyros' play was high­lighted by the play of Karen Randesi. Randesi caught a long bomb from Pyros' quarterback Elizabeth Plummer and outran her coverage 30 plus yards for the touchdown. Pasquerilla East missed the extra point, but secured the win 12-0. 
Pasquerilla East started the 

half with a mix of plays. The Pyros' Anne Searle ran through the gap for a marginal gain, and followed it with a passing play to Christina Morgner. Then Plummer found Randesi behind the coverage for the touchdown as the Pyros' went up 6-0. 
"Karen Randesi is a great re­ceiver," coach Eric Hillegas stated. "She is a smart player. Tonight, mainly was a team effort, and we are looking to come out strong in the play­offs." 
OtT-Campus12, Knott 0 

Off-Campus was looking to put Sunday's controversial loss behind them, as they took on the Angels. The Crime pre­vailed over Knott 12-0 in a game highlighted by a trick 
P~c~~F~, tk ~~ M#-. c~ tk f~R~A~ 
play. 

After a reception fnr over 20 yards, from the Crime's quar­terback, Erin Nichols, Off­Campus was in Angels' terri­tory. 
The Angels were fooled by the reverse, and the Crime's Charo Gonzalez rushed for a substan­tial gain. Then the Crime fooled the Angels' defense with a trick play. 
Off-Campus appeared to be rushing when the ball was handed off to their running back Patti Vassallo, but Vassallo pitched to Nichols. 
Nichols then connected with an open Gonzalez for the score. The Crime had an incomplete pass on their extra point, but posted six points on the board. 
The Angels' could not get the offense started. The Crime's defense seemed to read Knott's plays. Knott tried to run the screen numerous times, but were unsuccessful on all occa­sions. 
Gonzalez .dominated the Crime's second scoring drive. She had numerous receptions, along with successful rushing efforts. Gonzalez was charging for the goal line, but she was clotheslined by a Knott de­fender. 
The Angels were penalized, enabling the Crime to score. Kate Good managed to snatch a pass away from an Angel defender for the touchdown, and the Crime defeated the Angels 12-0. 
"We played like we expected to, well," stated Crime coach Josh Quinn. 
"Usual Suspects" 

2:30, 5:00. 7:25, 9:45 Tickets are on sale today at the LaFortune Box Office. "To Wong Foo" (PG-13) $3 for ND/SMC/HCC students, faculty and staff 
2:15.4:45,7:15,9:45 



Wednesday, October 11, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 19 


CARE to make responsible CARE enough about yourself not decisions before you drink to ride with a driver whose without feeling pressure from been drinking and always others. wear a seat belt. 
CARE about if, when and how CARE about a healthy lifestyle much you are going to drink. 
for yourself. 

to develop positive relationships 
to manage your time and with diverse people who respect
priorities, balancing studying and support the decisions you make.
and socializing. 

An Alcohol Awareness Week Message C~~!E 
to stay out of dangerous 
brought to you by the Ollie a of Alcohol and Dru£; Education u.r · · to tell a friend how you feel situations involving alcohol, whether in a car, a bar, or a
about his or her abusive drinking. bedroom. 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
I(P-N\<ED ('..., fojlSE'S' ~\(1\E.ST fi\M-1 IN 
(\~e-9-•C.A. Foil Ttlli: 
Sr:.c.o,..'t> "\e.Ait IN f>. 
1<o""' 11-\1~ OpU-1'<'1"'6, 
'S'i~TEI"' 1-\A'lo (ortiE. 
To \)o(l'llt<AT~ Tile:. Vlo il~ t> f(\1'1 P.\<E r... 
'BoT \Nil~,. ~111ES 1\•m? WIIP-T E'& HE WAr<'!' CAn-OF L.fE? Wll~ 1-s 1-l•s fnP-r<-rAA t<>l1. Svc.~e..-s:'? CALVIN AND HOBBES 

DILBERT 
0 

'I'OU'RE GOING TO BUILD 
~ 

P.. "G.U.l.'' USING OB'JE.CT­
~ 

ORIENTED DEVE.LOP­1"\t.NT TOOLS ... 
I G.U.I. 15 
~-~....-~VJL--.:.0~---..1.1.1..-""---.J 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 ~~ Desert 62 Site of 35 Confounded Napoleonic
1 Thomas ­exile36 Pass, as timeEdison 63 Give a hand 38 Food bar 5 Bartok et al. 
10 Engine noise 65 Slant<42 Aberration14 "Witness" 43 Legendarydirector Peter bluesman
15 Eye dazzlers DOWN
46 Doesn't dismiss 16 Apian abode 

so Miami 1 Inspires wonder 
17 -and anon 
University 2 Manufacturer 
18 Matters of some 
location Strauss
embarrassment 51 Wield 3 Tried for a title20 Tagalong 52 Mountain 4 Very noticeable 22 Tiny climbers, of a 5 By physical hydrophytes sort means23 Room in an 561981 Gold 6 More than great 
albergo Glove winner 24 Most deplorable 59 Inner person 1 Escapade 26 Ill-gotten gains 60 Turned off a Jazz's Pepper 
or Tatum
30 At top speed 61 Sow chow 9 Case for an ophthalmolo­gist
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
10"A--Is Waiting" (Cassavetes film) 
11 Depend (on) 28 Metallic fabric 12 Peeper parts 29 Overturn13 "The Balcony" 
32 They're slow playwright going
19 Bearing freight 33 Reb Robt. -­21 "The Boys of 34 Sweetie
Summer" author Roger 36 Kind of gun 37 Whale herds 
l-:-17:-f-:':-1BB-:':-i.::-+.::-fll!ll ; once-over 39 Authorizes ~4-=+4~=+=+~ 25 Unfit for farming 41 Island -:::-t-:t=t=+':-'t=+=+::-i 26 Latest thing ("Jaws" locale) ..::....l..:...J..=:.J..=:.J..=:.J.=-.L.:..:....L::..J 27 Mosque priest 42 Go belly up 

DAVE KELLETT 


(\fVI NoT P. 'Sc:.AA VIN'1 '\)o "-". (\,...NoT A Sc.~fi~>'N"\ 'bo~t\<. 
p.(l\ ... " &:-'>­
c:::> r~~~ 
BILL WATTERSON 
SCOTT ADAMS 

I USE.D 'M.'( 
GUN O'CJ'E.C.T NOTICE. 10 BLA~T 
HOW THE BUG GOOEY IT OB'JECT IN 
lS. 


YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 11, I99:. 

(For your personalized daily Jeane Dixon horoscope, based on your own date of birth, call 1-900-988-7788. Your phone company will bill you 99 cents a minute.) 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE to revive a romance. Make your 
NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: views known before things get Find healthier ways to deal with embarrassing. stress. Regular exercise or medita­VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): A tion sessions will help enonnously! romantic partner's good luck could Replace bad habits with good ones. rub off on you. Business deals pro­A career move you make this vide the perfect opponunity for the December will bring wonderful two of you to worlc together. Accept financial rewanls in 1996. Romance a friend's invitation to share laugh­and marriage are in the spotlight ter, fun and great food. next spring. A change of residence LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Busi­
is likely. Although severing old ties ness opportunities come through is difficult, you must do what you friends of friends. Start getting into think is right Emphasize your cre­shape for a special occasion. You ativity to prospective clients and worlc better in tandem. Search for a 
customers. new partner. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): A THIS DAY: firSt lady Eleanor Roo­trip turns out to be a fascinating sevelt, actor Luke Perry, actress blend of business and pleasure. Self­Joan Cusack, country singer Dottie promotion helps you land a coveted West. contract. Listen attentively to an 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): older person's views but do not Good news arrives regarding a ignore your intuition. change of policy or personnel. A SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. local charity needs you to contribute 21 ): A logistical problem can be time or money. New friends wants solved if you take a calm, clear­to sponsor you for membership in a headed approach. Devote more time social or professional organization. to community or church activities. A 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): business offer requires some soul­
Your living arrangements are dis­searching. 
cussed. A romantic partner may CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 
press you to make a commitment. 19): A period of quiet reflection 
Are you ready? Take your time. brings valuable insights on how to 
Treat loved ones tenderly even realize your dreams" Vse your pow­
when you must say "no" to their ers of persuasion to win an influen­
requests. tial person's backing. Say exactly 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): what you mean in letters and 
Making it on your own is the key to memos. 
long-lasting success. Be prepared AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
for transit delays or communication Your luck is about to improve. Your 
mix-ups. Recheck hotel and travel wonderful energy and enthusiasm 
reservations for an upcoming busi­inspires others to join a special 
ne:.s trip. cause. Greater give-and-take on the 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): homefront will help restore domes­
Career moves you thought impossi­tic hannony. Make temporary sacri­
ble, become easier now. Friends fices. 
welcome your advice regarding a PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
difficult problem. Do what you can Focus on creative play instead of 
to help without tapping into your work today. You need to remain 
financial reserves. calm if someone challenges your 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Practi­views or authority. Voice your opin­
cal matters dominate this morning. ion without wounding others. 
A friend offers valuable guidance. Romance soars to new heights this 
Someone from your past may want month. 
• OF INTEREST 

Hospitality Luncheon: Thursday, October 12 from 11·1:30 P.M. at the CSC in conjunction with The Catholic Worker House. Cost is $3 for cheesy rice and beans, salad and dessert. 
Candax McNair Program is being held for students interested in graduate studies and from under·nlpre­.sented groups. All .interested students are invited to attend at 7 P.M. on Thursday, October 12 in Cushing Auditorium. 
Information· meeting with film "Austria" with Professor Marie-Antoinette Kremer will be held today at 4:30P.M. in 119 DeBartolo for all those interested in studying in lnnshruck, Austria. Returning students will be on hand to answer questions. 
The Center for Social Concerns is hosting a conversation titled "After O.J.: Challenges for the Common Good" on Thursday, October 12 t'rom 4:15­
5:30 P.M. in the Multipurpose Room of the Center. Panelists include: Gloria-Jean Masciarotte, Warren Outlaw, Terry Phelps, and Clark Power. 
Sweetest Day Carnation Sale: ND/SMC Winter­guard is having a carnation sale for Sweetest Day. Flowers are $1 and can he purchased at SDH/NDH Wednesday October 11 through Friday October 13. 
•MENU  
Notre Dame  
North Chicken Fajita Pizza Meatless Ziti Parslied Potatoes  South Meatloaf Turkey Noodle Casserole Peas  
Saint Mary's  

Rotissere Chicken Quarters Beef Ragout Burgundy Mixed Vegetables 

• 
44 Hayseeds 45 Violent wind 
carrying snow 46 Made over 47 Radiate 48 Electrical unit 49 Soviet co-op 52 Revue segment 53 Townspeople 54 0intment 
container 55 Deli side order 57 Youth org. 58 Grain bristle 

Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 


SPORTS 
page 20 Wednesday, October 11, 1995 
• VOLLEYBALl 

Despite inconsistent effort, Irish dispose of Broncos 
By BETSY BAKER Sports Writer 

The eighth-ranked Notre Dame volleyball improved its record to 16-1 last night in a less than flawless, but effective 15-9, 15-5, 15-12 victory over Western Michigan. 
Although a match against the Broncos might appear insignificant on the Irish schedule which is booked with nationally­ranked teams and conference rivals, it is this reason exactly that it was important to play well against them. And for the most part, this is exactly what the Irish did not initially do. 
"This was not the way I wanted to go
• 
into our most important week of the sea­son," Irish head coach Debbie Brown said, referring to next week's schedule of four top-25 teams and two conference rivals. 
"In order for us to prepare for what we have to do in our next four matches, we needed to have a more consistent effort tonight." 
Sophomore outside hitter Angie Harris dominated the Irish effort with 19 kills. Junior Jen Briggs, a native of Kalamazoo, the home of Western Michigan, had a ban­ner night defensively tying fellow junior Jenny Birkner with a team-high nine digs and supplying two of the five Irish service aces. The match held special significance for Briggs, as it will be the last time in her career she plays in front of a hometown crowd. 
"I've been looking forward to this match all year," Briggs said. "But I was disap­pointed with the way we played as a team because that type of effort won't cut it this weekend." 
The Irish allowed the Broncos to jump out to a 4-1 lead in game two, but then responded well as they supplied twelve straight points. Still, Brown worried about the team's lack of consistency and intensi­ty. 
"We didn't play with any intensity at the beginning of the match," Brown said. "We made too many errors because we were not mentally ready to play." 
"On the positive side, we did pick up sig­nificantly in the second game." 
Western Michigan was led by outside hit­ter Bridget Norris who had a team-high eleven kills and nine digs. The Broncos' record dropped to 6-12 on the season. 
The Irish will have two days of practice before embarking on their most challeng­ing journey of the season. They will head to Atlanta on Friday to take on No. 25 Georgia Tech and No. 11 Texas on Saturday. 
The battle against Texas is a much anticipated rematch with the Longhorns, as they delivered the Irish their first defeat of the season and ended their 27 -match winning streak at the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. 
Briggs describes the team's anticipation for the match with Texas. "We can't wait to get another shot at Texas. It will be the match of the year." 
• SMC VOLLEYBAll

Lengthy injury report gets longer 
Belles finish 
and nose guard PaulVacated spots Grasmanis (sprained knee) are 
off North Park 
both doubtful as it stands this pave way for early in the week. The status 
in three sets
of LaRon Moore, who bruisedyouth movement his knee against Washington, 
By CAROLINE BLUM is still unknown. 
Saint Mary'$ Spo~;ts Editor While there's still a pretty
By MIKE NORBUT 
Sports Editor 

good chance that they will play 
:f:;~: The words of encourage-It's the same old Lou Holtz Saturday; the coaching staff is 
ment reverberated off the in charge of the Irish football preparing for the worst. 
walls of the Angela Athletic team. The only difference is "At tailback, you don't want 
flacility's home locker room. that now he's wearing a neck to make a lot of changes," 
''% "Focus, concentrate. and brace. Holtz said. "Marc Edwards 
remember what 1told you in On the one .--------------, will definitely 
practice." 'l;his advice given by Belles' volleyball coach Julie 
~nn~er~ar~ o~ 1916 IRJtS:Ht ~~~:0~~kart1! 
Schroeder-Biek was fol· vical spine fullback." 
his major cer­

-lowed by a solid effort surgery, the M o v i n g 
Tuesday night as they 
... 
Notre Dame Edwards to 
attacked North Park' in three head coach tailback would 
straight game~,>, 15-5, 15·10, was in good leave the full-
and 15·10. spirits Tuesday back position 
T~e Belles' victory evolved when he dis-open to 
from their hard work in cussed his M a r c u s 
practice this week, after los­ing last weekend in their
~faa~~hfor ~~~ FOOTSAL..L.. J~~rsn~ rna~~ 
own quadrangular. future. J a m i e 
Among the strategies the "I appreciate everybody ask-Spencer. Leaving Edwards at 
.. tea:pt. tackled consisted of.. ing me about my health," fullback would mean giving 
*back row attacking and Holtz said. "I feel much bet-Autry Denson his first colle­
'serving.N ter. I'm young. I swear to giate start. 
"I was happy that the gosh I am." The coaching staff is looking 
strategic~ we worked on ~J,l About the only thing he's not at a similar situation in the 
practice were performed in jovial about these days is secondary. With Moore 

thff game on Tuesday,'' when he starts talking foot-unable to go in practice, 
coach Julie Schroeder-Biek 
ball. Shawn Wooden has moved to 
said. "The back row attack Holtz went over the lengthy free safety, leaving sophomore 
. wa.S ready and focused. injury report at his weekly Ivory Covington to fill the cor­
Schroeder~Biek was also press conference, mentioning nerback slot opposite Allen 
satisfied with the team'a The Observer/Brent Tadsen some big names in the Rossum. 
resiliency, something that 
Due to a sprained shoulder, tailback Randy Kinder is listed as doubt­
process. Tailback Randy
ful for Saturday's game against Army. 
Kinder (sprained shoulder) see INJURIES I page 16 
see V:-BALU page 17 

SP 
Football
. 0 .

'·· : .. :: 
... :·. . vs. Army at Giants Staduim October 14, 2:30 EST 
···m··.··.·.·······.. ·.····· ... '.'.' 
Volleyball 

at Western Michigan, October 10


, at. a 1 
. Men's Soccer 
. : ;:: 
; . ·.: ; .··. ..."-A 
vs. Providence, October 14 

·G···UN······ · ··c·s·..,.. 
.... ....... ..•.. ".. J 

Senior co-captain Brett Hensel recorded six digs in Notre Dame's win last night against Western Michigan. 
Women's Soccer 
• Women's lnterhall Football Results 
vs. Duke, October 13 vs. North Carolina, October 5 
see page 18 Houston, Texas 
• Pirates find buyer 
SMC Sports 

Volleyball vs. North Park College 
see page 14 
Ocrober 10, 7 EST 
• Braves down Reds 2-1 
see page 15 



