----------------------------------~--~~~TT~~~ ~_,,~.,-,-------------------------­
. 

Monday, September 4, 1995• Vol. XXVII No. 11 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Notre Dame: Not the place for bargain hunters 
University fails to crack Money magazines top 100 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
Associate News Editor 
It was not a good week for Notre Dame at the polls. 
Besides plummeting to 25th in the Associated Press college football poll after Saturday's loss to Northwestern, Notre Dame also failed to crack the top 100 in Money maga­zine's Jist of the top college buys. 
·The listing, released in a special edition that hit the newsstands Wednesday, ranks New College (Fla.) number one. The liberal arts honors college of the University of South Florida, located in Sarasota, topped the charl<> for the third year in a row. 
Other schools highlighting the top ten include Hice University, in sec­ond; California Institute of Technology, fifth; University of North Carolina, sixth; and the University of Illinois, ninth. 
The primary reason Notre Dame did not place in the top 100 is that the University was compared to schools both public and private, an advantage for schools that can keep tuition costs low by receiving govern­ment funding. 
As a result, schools such as Trenton (N.J.) State (4th) finished ahead of Harvard (43rd). Money addressed 
• SEE TUESDAYS EDITION FOR 
NOTRE DAME'S REACTION 
this anomaly in its methodology report: 
"We aren't suggesting the schools are in the same league academically -they most certainly are not -but the education [that Trenton State] offers is well worth the cost," the magazine said. 
Seven of the top ten schools on the 


Pope calls for equality, yet still denies ordination 
AJSociated Press 
CASTELGANDOLFO, Italy 

Women deserve equality in the Homan Catholic Church, al­though they still can't be priests, Pope John Paul II said 
Sunday. 
The pope's remarks were his J·ast public state­ments on the role of w o m e n before the 


Fourth U.N. John Paul II W o r I d Conference on Women, which starts Monday in Beijing. 
The pope has spent months trying to portray the Vatican as a champion of women's rights. A Vatican team, led by Ameri­can law professor Mary Ann Glendon, will seek a conference statement denouncing abortion and sterilization as violence against women. 
"I make an appeal today to the entire ecclesiastical com­munity ... to favor in every way, in its entire being, feminine participation," the pope told a crowd at his summer residence outside Rome. 
The pontiff urged "concrete gestures" by the church to in­clude women, citing changes over the past decades like allowing Jay women to partici­pate in Mass and assuming higher posts in diocese and Vatican offices. 
"This is the path to follow with courage," he said. 
But the pontiff made clear there was no room in the church for female priests. A papal document last year said only male priests are possible because Christ selected only men as apostles. 

The Observer/David Murphy 
Rub Me Tender! 
Student receives a free five-minute massage at Lafortune Open House '95. 
list are public schools, including New College, thus allowing it to keep its tuition costs low while providing "an excellent education," according to Money. 
In a separate listing, Notre Dame was named a best buy among the 93 schools that charge more than $17,7 50 in tuition and fees. The cat­egory, titled "Costly But Worth It," placed Notre Dame 18th, ahead of Georgetown and Cornell but behind Harvard, Yale and Stanford. 
Tuition and fees at Harvard, Yale and Cornell average $25,365 for 1995-96. Total fees at Notre Dame are $22,680 this year. 
This year's incoming freshmen at New College have an average SAT score of 1256, compared to 1239 for Notre Dame. Tuition and fees for out-of-state students at New College total $7,950 for the 1995-96 school year. 
Coursework at New College is han­dled in a manner found in only a few 

Go Irish, Go! 

Jenn Bonita and Matt Lhapman get into the football spirit with blue and gold face-paint. 


First Lady supports conference 
Right-wing says women s forum too radical 
By TERENCE HUNT 
Associated Press 
HONOLULU 

Hillary Rodham Clinton de­fended an international wom­en's conference in China, say­ing conservative critics were unfairly portraying it as a gath­ering of "radicals and atheists bent on destroying our fami­lies." 
"The composition of our del­egation refutes that charge," the first lady said Sunday in her weekly newspaper column. "It is a broad-based, family-ori­ented group committed to the mainstream agenda of the con­ference." 
Conservatives have portrayed the conference as a radical, anti-family event that will en­dorse liberal stands on issues such as abortion. Senate Major­ity Leader Bob Dole, R-Kan., seeking the GOP presidential nomination, has deemed it 
"misguided" and a "genuine waste of the taxpayers' money." 
Mrs. Clinton issued her de­fense as she prepared to fly to Beijing to address the confer­ence Tuesday. 
Meanwhile, the White House sternly rebuked China for its harassment of delegates to a parallel meeting of women's advocacy groups. 
"We very much regret the restrictions on free expressions and association which have been occurring in Beijing," said White House press secretary Mike McCurry. "We believe those are wrong and they are counterproductive to the work of a very important interna­tional conference." 
McCurry said it was the re­sponsibility of the United Na­tions, the sponsor of the wom­en's conference, and China to clear up the problem. 
"We've been making clear to Chinese officials for some time that there should not be limits on freedom of expression and association during the course of the international women's con­ference," McCurry said. 
Women have complained of Chinese security guards shad­owing and photographing dele­gates, harassing Tibetan and human rights campaigners, confiscating video tapes and breaking up meetings. 
McCurry said U.S. officials have been talking to the Chi­nese and U.N. officials about the problems. "And the first lady, especially, hopes that those matters will be cleared up prior to her arrival." 
McCurry has said that the first lady would not directly challenge China about its hu­man rights abuses because there are other countries at the conference with a record just as bad-if not worse. 
The first lady is expected to argue on women's behalf for adequate health care, political rights and economic opportu­nity. 
"It saddens me that a historic event like this is being miscon­strued by a small but vocal band of critics trying to spread the notion that the U.N. gather­ing is really the work of radi­cals and atheists bent on destroying our families," Mrs. Clinton said in her newspaper column. 
Monday, September 4, 1995
page2 The Observer • INSIDE 
• INSIDE COLUMN 


Quality, not quantity but... 
Maybe I'm just caught------­in that Grafiti Dance Mentality. I'm still searching for new peo­ple to sign my T -shirt. I still want to introduce ­myself to everyone by name, hometown, and major. I still want to make new friends (and keep the old, as that old Krista Nannery Brownie Troop song Accent Editor goes). 
The dining hall depresses me. Every day, twice a day, I take a seat in the hallowed halls of North Dining Hall with my vegetarian chili con carne and look around me. I can count on two hands the number of people I know, but this is understandable as a large portion of seniors move off campus every year. 
But when I enter Senior Bar, or any other bar around, I feel like one big wall flower. I make the rounds. I mingle. But I feel like an alien, really I do. Seniors, seniors every­where, but I've never seen half of them dur­ing my entire Notre Dame career. Did some extraterrestrial spaceship drop a whole truckload of alien transfer students onto South Bend while I wasn't looking? 
I'm 21 and have a hard time getting past Jamie, the bouncer, at the Linebacker. (2 forms of photo 10, my Video Watch card and my AAA membership and he still isn't con­vinced I am me. Talk about the wrong place to force an identity crisis on someone.) So, I figure the majority of people visiting the Linebacker must be over 21. They must be seniors. Well, unless they are well-dressed townies, I still can't say I know a whole lot of them. 
If I changed my major; would I know more people? If I moved off campus, would people invite me to their barbecues? Should I have let my roommates set me up for SYRs more often? Is this all because I'm not a Farley Stoop Smoker? Should I start wearing a name tag· on a regular basis? 
I love my friends. If it weren't for them, I'd probably be holed up somewhere on the 13th Floor of the Library reading "The Aenid" in translation every night. My sock drawer would be alphabetized, and I would never have had the pleasure of watching "Days of Our Lives" on a regular basis. 
But I still find it really odd that all of us can walk into a place like Senior Bar, grab a table and a couple of pitchers, and then all remark on the small number of people pre­sent that we know. Then again, that might just be a sign of how close my particular group of friends is. 
I'm feeling insecure in my seniorness. I want to meet every member of the Class of 1996 and have a meaningful conversation with them before graduation. If I don't meet them all now, I'll graduate and wind up in some big place like New York or Miami where I'll know even less people and have even bigger anxiety attacks. I'm scared. 
This job does provide one perk, however. I get the dubious honor of having my name­and, yes, sometimes even my face-in print. (I still get a lot of flack for my "Why Nikki Taylor really bugs me" column from drunk boys at Turtle Creek parties.) This does help me make friends and influence people, but there's gotta be a better way. If I figure it out, I'll introduce myself. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• TODAY'S STAFF 

News Graphics Kristi Kolski Chris Mullins Melanie Lafin Production Sports Kira Hutchinson Megan McGrath }ana Bruder Rafael Gonzalez Belle Bautista Accent Lab Tech Dan Cichalski Katie Kroener 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Americans, Clinton remember the war 

HONOLULU 

Remembering, someone once said, is a battle between forgetfulness and memory. If so, here's the battle report from V-J Day weekend: 
The troops jitterbugged to '40s tunes and wept at the sound of "Taps." They paraded up the boule­vard and swapped snapshots and stories and addresses. They even wheeled in Bob "The Big Gun" Hope. And still they lost ground. 
It became clear in Bill Clinton's keynote commemorative address Saturday, the anniversary of the signing of Japan's surrender on the battleship USS Missouri. 
"Fifty years ago today, on the deck of the aircraft carrier Missouri in Tokyo Bay, freedom finally pre­vailed," declared the first president born after World War II. 
Ex-crewmen from the famous-or once-famous -battlewagon had to cringe and wonder, and not just at slips of the presidential tongue. 
Polls show that most Americans don't know that the Russians fought on their side in the war, or what Dwight D. Eisenhower's role was in the war. or what D-Day was. Memory, on all fronts, is in retreat. 
Roy Linsenmeyer has his own solu­tion. 
"I wrote a long 12-page letter to my six grandchildren and said, 'Let me tell you what your grandpa did in the big war,' " explained the old Navy Seabee from Swarthmore, Pa., a veteran of the battle of Okinawa. 
For the record, what Grandpa did, along with 15 million other service­men and women, and tens of mil­lions of Americans who stayed home to worry and pray and work, was to change the course of history, to elim­inate a brutal brand of nationalism that imperiled democracy and free­dom worldwide. 
Clinton, in a more accurate vein, paid tribute to those millions as he stood before veterans on Saturday, flanked by the 33,000 graves of Honolulu's inspiring hilltop national cemetery. 
"We honor the extraordinary gen­eration of Americans who came together to meet the challenge of war and then ... worked together to seize the promise of peace," the 49­year-old president said. 
It was the centerpiece ceremony of a weekend of events to help the nation remember its great sacrifice, and the "extraordinary generation" to celebrate its role. 
Men love big, cuddly women 
CRANSTON, R.I. 
Tony Fratus recalls the first time he walked into The Well-Rounded Club. "It was like, 'Wow.' I couldn't believe my eyes," said Fratus, a 43-year-old heavy equipment operator. "Everywhere I looked, big women. I almost snapped my neck." Fratus was just one of the many men who answered an ad placed in newspaper personal sec­tions: "ATTENTION: Big Beautiful Gals and the men who prefer them!" The Well-Rounded Club promotes dances and social events for women who are ... Hefty? Plus-sized? Rubenesque? "You can say fat, because that's what we are," said club founder Diane Ilic. "That's just not all we are. We're people too and, as a lot of men already know, we can be a lot of fun to be with.'' Ilic started the club three years ago. Tired of sitting alone at bars, or being refused dances at clubs, she was sure there were men out there who didn't mind being with an overweight woman. 
Man rescues fiancee's pet from fall 
NEWPORT NEWS, Va. 
Johnny Johnson Jr. didn't even stop to think before tak­ing a 50-foot dive off a bridge to save his fiancee's dog. "Animals are like your children. I just flipped off my flip­flops and dove in," he said. He and Lisha Lee stopped their car on the James River Bridge on Saturday while the span opened to let a boat pass, then got out with her 5­year-old miniature collie, Cosmo, to look over the side. Cosmo tried to jump up on the railing, but sailed right over. Johnson paddled over to the dog but had to release Cosmo after a few minutes: "He was pushing me under trying to get on my head." The two floated downstream before a passing boat fished them up, Ms. Lee said. Man, woman and pooch were reunited at a nearby pier. 
Drug smugglers are saintly 
CULIACAN, Mexico 

With strumming guitars and wheezing accordions, the musicians jam into the blue, weather-beaten chapel to ser­enade the bust of Jesus Malverde -patron saint of drug traffickers. "Jesus Malverde, angel of the poor, I've come to ask you a great big favor," the musicians wail, their lament rising before the plaster molded image of the mus­tachioed thief. The statue's cowboy shirt is painted white, his scarf, eyes and hair black. One young man in T -shirt, tight jeans and reptile skin cowboy boots bows before the bust, then crosses himself after reciting his "manda" ­Spanish for a promise made in expectation of a miracle. Malverde, a common criminal hanged in 1909, was not himself a drug trafficker. But some of Mexico's most pow­erful smugglers have joined locals in recent years in pay­ing homage at his shrine just around the corner from the statehouse in Culiacan. 
Here she comes, Miss America 
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. 

If the 75th anniversary Miss America Pageant turns out to be anywhere as contentious as the year that preceded it, get ready for brouhahas on the Boardwalk. The anniversary year, which got the ultimate jump start last September with the crowning of the first deaf Miss America, degenerated into a steady stream of rancorous revelations, backbiting and gimmicky promotions. But as Vanessa Williams-the dethroned 1984 winner turned Broadway and singing star -learned, there's no such thing as bad publicity. Pageant officials hope all the hoopla will boost sagging television ratings on Sept. 16 for NBC's three-hour live broadcast -the rock upon which the entire institution exists. 
• INDIANA WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 

OHtO 
!1ndianapo1@ aoo 1 
• 

COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1995 AccuWeather, Inc. Pressure 
H L a~ [Til 013]8-i) ~u 
HIGH l.OW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FL.URRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CL.OUDY 
Torn Johannesen Sarah Corson 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday acept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
Atlanta  66  71  Dallas  94  71  New Orleans 95  73  
Balli more  95  66  Denver  93  57  New York  69  67  
Boston  66  60  Los Angeles 95  73  Philadelphia 90  60  
Chicago  67  77  Miami  92  60  Phoenix  110  66  
Columbus  93  69  Minneapolis 79  60  St. Louis  62  76  

Monday, September 4, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 3 

Powell rejected appointments Financial support needed 
A•sociated Press 
WASHINGTON 

In his new book, Retired Gen. Colin Powell says he turned down a chance to be­come director of the CIA when Pres ide n t-.~ elect Bush ! offered him ' the job in 1 9 8 8 . ' according to Newsweek. 
In 1992, Powell was asked to con-Colin Powell sider being candidate Bill Clinton's running mate, and he was approached twice about becoming President Clinton's secretary of state, said the Sept. 11 issue of Newsweek, which obtained a copy of the 613-page autobiography "My American Journey." 
White House press secretary Mike McCurry, traveling with Clinton in Hawaii, did not dis­pute Powell's assertions. 
"I think you know that the president cast a wide net as he · was searching for a running mate," McCurry said. "It is no secret that President Clinton has very high regard for Gen. Powell, as do many Ameri­cans." 
He said Clinton settled on Al Gore and looks forward to be­ing reelected with him. "All the rest is ancient history," Mc­Curry said. 
As for the status of Secretary of State Warren Christopher, McCurry said the secretary and the president talked at the be­ginning of 1995 about what Christopher should do, and eventually decided that he 
BeeSports 



a:o·l:l.lae· 
.-s•-~ ~~ 
Faeility Info. 1 Upe9ming El·ents 1 Game Delays 
lJNIVEHSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM 


SANTIAGO, CHILE 
INFORMATiON MEETING WITH PROFESSOR SILVIA ROJAS-ANADON 
TUESDAY SEPTEMBER 5, 1995 4:30 1).M. 246 DEBARTOLO 


Activities Night 

Come and gel involved in Noire Dame organizalion1/ 
should remain on the job. 
McCurry said that as Christo­pher weighed his future, it was "prudent ...that the president might have inquired to several people about their interest in that position.'" 
"Obviously, these are very sensitive personnel discussions and apparently Gen. Powell has felt free to write about that," the press secretary said. "That's his right, as an Ameri­can." 
The book, scheduled to arrive in book stores next week, does­n't explicitly state Powell's political ambitions. 
But if he wants a top job at the White House. he may suc­ceed by resisting the temp­tation to run as an independent and winning a Republican nomination as a presidential or vice presidential candidate, ac­cording to a poll in the same magazine. 
In a three-way race against GOP Sen. Bob Dole and Presi­dent Clinton, Powell finished last with 21 percent of regis­tered voters who participated in a telephone survey. Clinton won support from 36 percent, and Dole got 33 percent, Newsweek said. 
But as the Republican candi­date, Powell trounced Clinton by as many as 10 percentage points. As a GOP vice presiden­tial candidate, Powell would boost Dole to victory, beating a Clinton-Gore ticket 51 percent to 44 percent. 
to bring bears to Indiana 
Associated Press 
GARY, Ind. 

A coalition of northwest Indi­ana businessmen trying to con­vince the Chicago Bears to build a $285 million stadium in Lake County says the proposal will require financial assis­tal)ce from the state. 
But some legislators say that idea will be ::ontroversial. 
Lt. Gov. Frank O'Bannon said the Department of Commerce has money available for train­ing and infrastructure depend­ing "on investments and cre­ation of jobs, but nothing for construction purposes." 
O'Bannon said he has spoken with Gary L. Neale, chairman of NIPSCO Industries Inc. and a member of the coalition. 
"There is nothing specific at this time," O'Bannon said Fri­day about a financial plan, adding that state bonding au­thority would need legislative approval. 
Northwest Indiana Forum Inc. President Thomas M. Mc­Dermott said luring the Bears would take a combination of state and local taxes or finan­cial incentives. That could mean a county income tax and/or sales tax. 
State Rep. Chester Dobis, D­Merrillville, said it is difficult for counties to get state money for major products if they don't have a county income tax. Lake County is one of eight counties without such a tax. 
"If the county council is reluctant to do it to build roads and sewers, just think what it would be like to invoke a local option income tax just to bring the Bears in," Dobis said, adding that he has not been approached by the coalition. 
Bears President Michael Mc­Caskey has said he would con­sider the Northwest Indiana proposal, but he is also looking at sites in Chicago, Aurora and Hoffman Estates. 
The Illinois General Assembly early this year refused to consider McCaskey's request for a $185 million state subsidy. 
"I think the same would ap­ply in Indiana," Dobis said. 
State Sen. Michael Gery, D­Lafayette, a longtime member of the Senate Finance Commit­tee, said a request for a major amount of state assistance to build a football stadium "would invoke a lot of contro­versy." 
Two major state projects in the last decade have involved state and local cooperation ­the Subaru/Isuzu plant in Lafayette and the United Air­lines maintenance facility in Indianapolis. 
Gery said the package for the car maker was about $75 mil­lion. O'Bannon said the United project involved $293 million in bonding authority, with $174 million of that coming from the state. 
But Subaru created 2,000 jobs and United means 6,300 jobs with an average salary of $46,000. 
Sen. President Pro Tern Robert D. Garton, R-Columbus, said the state allowed a Marion County food and beverage tax to help build the RCA Hoosier Dome in Indianapolis. He said he recalls the state also backed construction bonds for that project. 
Although the coalition won't be specific on locations, it says the three potential sites are north of Interstate 94. 
"Everybody talks about it as being quite realistic," Joseph Morrow, chairman of Mercan­tile National Bank and a mem­ber of the coalition, said Friday. "The infrastructure already is in place -the roads, the South Shore." 
Ted Phillips, the Bears vice president of operations, said the site is accessible from three major expressways and the South Shore Railroad. 
The Bears final season in Soldier Field is 1999. 
. ~ 
Amencan Heart ~ Association-V' 
'lfll'*tt9,....,.~..
--· 

Research gave him a future 

01995, American Heart Associallon 


----~-----~--------------~­
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Monday, September 4, 1995 


Money 
continued from page 1 
schools nationwide, but the method usually works: 27% of its graduates eventually earn doctorates, compared to the national average of under 10%. 
At the beginning of each semester at the school, stu­dents describe the courses, reading, and research they plan to pursue by drafting aca­demic contracts, and they are expected to complete those obligations with minimal prompting-from the faculty. 
"(The professors] encourage students to figure out what they want to get out of class," Kelcey Burns, a nineteen-year-old psy­chology major, told Money. 
Instead of receiving grades, students at New College are is­sued written evaluations from their professors, and three in­dependent study projects are required during the three-week mini-session in January. 
Money compared the 1,049 schools across the country by collecting data on each school in 16 educational categories, including entrance exam results, high school grade point average and class rank, faculty and library resources, and percentage of students who continue their studies beyond graduation. 
These factors were then com­pared to the overall fees charged by each institution to determine the value ofeach school. 
Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 




(2\MPU5
tv11NISTRY 
Bomb sparks worries of terror wave 
By CHRISTOPHER BURNS Associated Press 
PARIS 
A homemade bomb hidden in a pressure cooker caused an explosion in an outdoor market Sunday, slightly injuring four people, setting several food stalls ablaze and sparking wor­ries that a new terrorist wave had hit Paris. 
It was the third bomb attack in as many months in the French capital despite a na­tionwide security alert. 
The explosion occurred under a fruit and vegetable stand at the outdoor market near the Place de Ia Bastille. 
The detonator went off, but the rest of the bomb failed to explode, authorities said. If it hadn't malfunctioned, there could have been many casual­ties in the busy marketplace, they said. 
There was no immediate claim of responsibility, but sus­picion fell on Algerian militants who have threatened France for its support of the military­backed government in Algiers. The Algerian Armed Islamic Group is suspected in the two other bombings. 
The explosion came shortly before noon at the market, held on a broad, tree-lined boule­vard with a center island where merchants, shoppers and tourists gather every weekend. 
"I turned around and saw a huge fireball that went into the air," said John Hower, 46, an American businessman. "The stall canopies started to burn, and I, like everybody else, started running." 
"Then, when we saw the bomb was not that big, we came back to look at it," said Hower, as the market contin­ued to bustle even after the bombing. "One of the mer­chants put the fire out with a hose." 
The four victims, all women, suffered leg and arm injuries and superficial burns. 
Police have tightened security around the country since a bombing in a Paris regional subway train July 25 that killed seven people and injured 84. Another bomb exploded on a 

AP street near the Arc de Triom­phe on Aug. 17, wounding 17 people, including 11 tourists. 
Last weekend, authorities found a bomb planted on a high-speed train track north of Lyon. 



Register in Advance at RecSports The fee is $8.00 and Space is Limited Helmets are Required Depart Library Circle at 10:00 Return to Library Circle at 5:00 
R--~ 
CAMPUS MINISTRY HAS A NEW HANG OUT! ! AT THE O'HARA LOUNGE IN LAFORTUNE 
(next to the LaFortune Information Desk) 
Hours: Mondays thru Fridays 11:00 a.m. to 4:00p.m. 
liJelcome... 
Off-Campus Concerns Off-Campus Students 

All Students 
Grab some M&M's! ! (We even have blue ones!) 


GrandfJpenlng -fltestlafj Septem6er S 

Monday, September 4, 1995 The Observer • NEWS 
Women fight for fairness 
By EDITH LEDERER 
Associated Press 
BEIJING On the eve of a 181-nation 
U.N. women's conference that China hoped would boost its prestige, delegates from a par­allel meeting of private groups on Sunday staged their biggest day of protests yet. 
The NGO Forum dropped its threat to send its 23,000 dele­gates home, even though China refused to loosen security that the women said was intended t6 harass and intimidate them. 
Complaints that China is try­ing to muzzle the activists and 

Hey! 

Do you enjoy working with children and helping them learn? If so, we need youl 
Please sign up to tutor with 

NEIGHBORHOOD STUDY HELP PROGRAM 
on 
Wednesday, September 6 or Thursday, September 7 
at the dining halls during lunch or dinner 
For information call: 
Randolph Schmidt @ 634·0802 or Nicole Carlstrom@ 634·2668 





Catch the Action! 
-· 
-
Notre Dame vs. Purdue Saturday, September 9th 
Round trip bus transportation to Ross-Ade Stadium 
Buses leave at 11:00 AM frotn Stepan Center Tickets: $15 at the LaFortune Info. Desk 
Game tickets available at the LaFortune Info. Desk starting Aug. 23 with student I.D. 
Sronsored by Student Activities 
--~I 



limit their contact with dele­gates to the U.N. Fourth World Conference on Women have overshadowed the official meet­ing, which begins Monday. 
Tibetan independence ac­tivists said one of their mem­bers was shoved and chased from a meeting Sunday when she tried to hand out leaflets. Security guards also stopped a march by about 150 anti-nu­clear activists. 
The Chinese did not interfere with Kuwaiti women demand­ing that Iraq free Persian Gulf War prisoners or Iraqis protest­ing the U.N. embargo. There also were protests by Muslim women whose use of a movie theater was pre-empted and by women from South Asia shout­ing "Peace now!" 
The head of the U.N. meeting said Sunday .it will have a dou­ble goal -pushing for equality of the sexes by the 21st century and fighting to keep social gains made in the 20th. 
"We must struggle ... to come out with a document for the ad­vancement of women," said secretary-general Gertrude Mongella. "We must watch out ... for conservative or back­ward-looking elements which want to keep the woman in a place where she has always been." 
Mongolia called on delegates to oppose attempts to roll back previous conference agree­ments on human rights, abor­tion and contraception. 
•Lard ollllullllll(ll) 2:00, 4::i0, 7:00, 0::10 
•A 
Dlln DIU Arlllfi(PG) 1:20. 3:30, 5:35, 7:48, 0:50 

•Till 
Pllllmln (PG) 1:45,4:15,7:10,1:48 •BBYUIIIIIIIUioo*(R) 1:25,3:48,5:50,8:00,10:20 

•A 
Walk In Till CIIIIIIB(PG·13)1:00, 3:20,5:48, 

•Dr 
Juckylllll Ml HydB{PG·13J '·'"·"·''"·"·'"··'·..····""t 

•BIOI (G) 1:05, 3:10, 5:15, 7:20,1:20 •BlllhwiiUIJII(PG·13J 1:35,3:45,5:45,7:45,1:45 

•
The lllbplltn c•ID 1:30,3:35,5:25.7:25,o:35 


•Undllr SIIIUB 2(8) 1:10,3:25,5:30,7:60,10:00 Paw 
31 7iJ 1\Ll SEATS B~~ollE 6 P1.1

*llO PASSb SU~Hl$~V~RS f•C.CEPTED 
----~---~----------.., 
page 5 


Concert rocks Cleveland until wee hours 
By DADE HAYES 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND Strangers faced each other and danced. 
Revelers exchanged warm beers and high-fives, mar­veling at what was happening onstage at Cleveland Stadium and in the city. 
The music didn't die until the wee hours Sunday as more than two dozen acts cel­ebrated the opening of the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum. 
"I feel like I was part of his­tory," said Sherry Bedlac, who wore earrings fashioned out of 45 rpm records. 
"Aretha Franklin, Johnny Cash -it was all great stuff. I moved here from New York and now all my friends back there are now envious of me." 
Highlights included Bruce Springsteen playing with Chuck Berry, Jerry Lee Lewis and Bob Dylan. Springsteen also teamed up with the E Street Band. 
Classes meet Mondays, 6:15-7:30 pm, Loftus 114, September 11 through October 9. Cost is $15. Sign-ups begin Tuesday, September 5 in the RecSports office. A continuation class will be offered after October break. Contact 631-5965 with any questions. 
GO TO OFACER 
TRAINING SCHOOL. 

Put your college 
Force Officer Training School. 
Then, after graduating from Officer Training School, become a commissioned Air Force officer with great starting pay, complete medical and dental care, 30 days of vacation with pay per year and management opportunities. Learn if you qualify for higher education in the Air Force. Call 
AIR FORCE OPPORTUNITIES TOLL FREE 1-800-423-USAF 
Creedence Clearwater Revival founder John Fogerty did "Fortunate Son" and "Born on the Bayou," while John Mellencamp helped Cash sing "Ring of Fire," and Lou Reed and Soul Asylum harmonized on "Sweet Jane." 
Slash. whose role as lead guitarist in the hard rock band Guns N Roses often obscures his gift for blues, paired with Boz Scaggs on "Red House," a slow grind dedicated to Jimi Hendrix. 
Other performers at the nearly seven-hour show in­cluded Sheryl Crow, the Kinks. Bruce Hornsby, George Clinton and the P-Funk All Stars, Heart, Robbie Robertson, James Brown and Jackson Browne. 
The crowd of 57,000 finally filed from the stadium at about 2:30 a.m. to the fans' own choruses of "Rock 'n' Roll!" 
The concert capped two busy days of festivities, including Friday's ribbon cut­ting and Saturday's opening to the public. 





==--= -... 

--.....-_,



t===========:;-=--=-·= !>
_._. .-........---_,.
=~=-==-""="=­



VIEWPOINT 

page 6 Monday, September 4, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
John Lucas 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Elizabeth Regan Joseph Riley 
New. Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Porter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ...................... Jen Mackowiak Sports Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor .................................. Rob Finch Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's CoUege. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to aU readers. The &ee expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor /Production 631-5303 Viewl'oint E-Mail Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 


• IAM Nor A Poneo Puuu 

Struggling through life in the London Program 
l A7hen I learned that I'd have the 
V V opportunity to continue sharing my vast erudition and keen insights into the human condition with you, my dear schoohnates, all the way from London, I figured that my first overseas column would begin with something along the lines of "greetings from the land of wet weather, bad food and warm beer." But then I decided that that description applied equally well to the South Bend experience and was therefore not the way to go. A simple "Greetings from London" is going to have to suffice. 
I realize that a quarter of the student 
readership of this publication is not 
feel left out. y~t fully aware of After all, every­their class loca­body does it; from tions or section Charlie Brown to
Chris 
mates' names, Bart Simpson, from much less the the Griswalds to existence of the the Bundys, every


Kratovil 
Notre Dame major pop culture London Program, icon (yes, even the cast of 9021 0) has
so perhaps a little background information might be a rea­sonable place to start. 
H
Well -and again this info is for the freshmen, you jaded upperclassmen can feel free to skip to the next paragraph ­every fall and spring semester the University sends over a group of 80-90 juniors to take classes from a mostly British faculty at the Notre Dame London Centre (note the nifty Brit spelling). While over here, we live in three blocks of very nice but somewhat under-furnished flats in the Bayswater district of London and hike about three miles to the classroom building, which dating to 1721, that is right off Piccadilly Circus in Central London and must be costing the University an incomprehensi­ble sum to lease. aving established the nature of the program, you're probably wonder­ing why I am involved in it. After all, I'm just a pragmatic government-type 
with a rather minimal interest in the fme arts, or, more bluntly stated by one of my friends, "Kratovil, you're a com­plete Philistine whose notion of a good time is to get liquored up on Cuervo while watching C-SPAN; so why the hell are you going to London?" Well, I've been struggling with this question myself, especially since actually arriving here, but I've now come up with a few reasonable justifications. 
First and foremost, I'm in London because going on a low budget jaunt about Europe is increasingly an American middle class right of passage 
and I didn't want to 
done the innocent American abroad rou­tine. Who am I to buck the trend? 
Even if I don't fully accept the televi­sion propagated thesis that I can't be considered fully adult until I've had some sort of European misadventure, there is a certain appeal to the prospect of spending four and a half months with minimal responsibilities as sort of a glo­rified tourist (or is it hobo?). 
A nd, as all of those innumerable tour 1"\..books so glibly point out, there real­ly never will be another opportunity (at least until I retire... if that ever happens) to just take off and wander about a for­eign country for half a year. 
I don't know what, if any, practical benefits this whole business holds but it's kind of fun nonetheless. Besides, all those good little Ivy Leaguers I'm going to be competing with for places in law school are going to have all sorts of groovy stuff on their resumes -like sail­ing a canoe around the world to raise money for cancer research -that I fig­ured I'd better get out and do something other than the usual ND routine this semester. 

But of course, in addition to the above desires to travel and pad my resume, I also had several sub-motives in making this trip. Foremost among these was the desire to get out of South Bend on just about any pretense; I think that I would have strongly considered a foreign study program in Beirut or Baghdad were they the 
H
only options. A desire to live in abject poverty, with a meal allowance of only £40 every two weeks, in one of the most expensive cities in the world was also a definite factor. aving established my rationale for being in London, · I thought I'd share a few first impressions of this vast city. First of all, it just doesn't seem all that, well, foreign. Once you get past the funny accents, backwards traf­entertainment choices is offset by the lack of

'After all everybody 
"staying in" options.does it; from Although our flats Charlie Brown to Bart have TVs there's just not much to watch;
Simpson, from the 
just four channels of

Griswalds to the 
PBS-like programs Bundys, every major and/or reruns of American shows (they 
pop culture icon (yes, 
had a show called 

even the cast of 9021 0) "The Secret Life of 
has done the innocent Plants" on during American abroad rou­prime time the other 
night). What's more,tine.' the Brits have about -----------­the worst taste in 
fic patterns, room temperature beer, occasional ancient building and unarmed police, its easy to forget that you're in a foreign country. 
American consumer products and recycled American popular culture are everywhere (e.g. there's a 7-11 down the block and the X-Files are the highest rated show on the BBC). Still. I know the realization that I'm not in America is going to hit me very suddenly one day when I step out into the street, look the wrong way and get plowed by a double­decker bus. 
In terms of school, it often seems more like I've transferred to a tiny urban col­lege than that I'm engaged in a foreign 
E
study program. Aside from that profes­sor's accent-if any-and possibly sub­ject matter, you'd be hard-pressed to tell you're not in some sub-basement at DeBartolo. ntertainment is, obviously, a wee bit easier to find in London than in South Bend. On any given night options ranging from going to a West End show or a symphony, to pub-hopping or club­bing are open to this intrepid band of scholastic adventurers. 
The abundance of 
"going out" type of 

sports of any people on Earth. Last week we endured a five day, six hour per day, every moment televised cricket match which (get this) ended in a draw -30 hours of play and no one won!) 
Well that's about it from this side of the Atlantic. By the way, if you're one of my friends who has not yet received a letter or post card from me I want you to do something; close your eyes, take a deep breath, and reread the above col­umn pretending its a letter from me to you ... there, now won't you feel guilty if you don't write me back? 
Chris Kratovil is a junior spending the semester in London . 
• DOONESBURY 
W& W/31<& IN 71-f& N&IGH80R­HOO/?ANI? THOUGHT tu&'l? 
I?ROP BY! lr YOU'!?£ NOT 7W 
EJU9f, I'/?WVP 7V HAN6 ANI? Pia< YOUR BRAIN... 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
I:41 THINKING ~OU~I..-Y OP6HTING!N?V 7HEMOVI/3 EJU9/N/39.3! ITHOUGHTMAY­813 YOU C.OUWGIV& M/3 AN 
IN'31/?eR.''3 7AJ<El 

• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
" A 11 of us are free as long .1-\as no one tramples on us." 
-Tess Onwueme 
Football 







le Haze 
Northwestern seizes 
opportunity, outplays 
ninth-ranked Irish 
By MIKE NORBUT Sports Editor 
Coaches, players and fans alike had a list of high expectations for the 1995 Notre Dame foot­ball team. 
Having to make a dramatic, last-minute come­
back against Northwestern was not on the list. Losing to the Wildcats was not even fathomed. But, in the clash of the overachievers and the 
team that left its heart in the locker room, Northwestern handed Notre Dame a 17-15 loss in front of a sellout crowd at Notre Dame Sta­dium Saturday. They dropped to 25th in the Associated Press poll. 
It was Notre Dame's first season-opening loss since Lou Holtz's first year as head coach in 1986. It was the Wildcats' first victory over the Irish since Ara Parseghian was Northwestern's coach in 1962. 
But it wasn't until Notre Dame's final timeout and Northwestern's third-and-seven conversion with a minute left to play that the game's out­come was realized. 
"I felt we were going to win the game until they got that last first down." said Irish quarter­back Ron Powlus, who finished the day 17 -for­26 for 175 yards. "I just knew if we got the ball back, we were going to go down and score." 
The game's ending kind of sneaked up on the Irish. When Darnell Autry scampered for 26 
see IRISH I page 2 

• Jock Strip 

Wake up the echoes? Someone forgot to tell Northwestern 
S
hake down the thunder, wake up the echoes. Choose any of the inspira­tions associated with Notre Dame's tradition. Now erase them from your memory as invalid. 
As all fairy tales begin, once upon a time oppo­nents were petrified of Notre Dame Stadium sim­
.··· ,,;. 

,· ...:ti

ply because it existed. ,_. Legs would tremble, eyes dart around the crowd nervously, stomachs Tim Seymour clench a little tighter. 
Associate 

Let us then move from 
Sports Editor 

the dream world of the past to the disconcerting reality of recent his­tory. 1992: Michigan 17, Notre Dame 17. 1993: Boston College 41, Notre Dame 39. 1994: Michigan 26, Notre Dame 24; BYU 21, Notre Dame 14. 
These at least are established football pow­ers. The scariest chapter occurred Saturday, when even perennial doormat Northwestern 
The ObseiVer/Mike Ruma Northwestern linebacker Danny Sutter shows off his prize, a recovered fumble, to Irish tackle Mike Doughty in the first quarter. 
see SEYMOUR I page 3 

Monday, September 4, 1995 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA 

Wildcats confident in shocking win 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT 
Assistant Sports Editor 
'"If people tell you dreams don't come true, tell them about Rudy," the movie pre­views say. 
It's almost ironic. Rudy became the catch phrase of Notre Dame. The place where dreams are fulfilled and mira­cles happen. 
Originally these were sup­posed to be for Notre Dame stu­dents, now it seems that other schools are getting into the act. First came Boston College, then BYU and now Northwestern. 
Has the Irish luck turned evil. Have we insulted the almighty Celtic gods so that the miracles go against us. Or is it some­thing more practical. 
"The mental part of football is such a huge aspect," senior Ryan Leahy said after Saturday's game. "And that's probably the part we're lacking right now. I have all the confi­dence in our team. It's just a matter of our teammates get­ting the same confidence in themselves." 
Northwestern definitely did not lack confidence in them­selves. As the door mat of the Big Ten for the past years, they had all the reasons to doubt their abilities. This season they don't. 


"We're starting to think like winners now," Northwestern quarterback Steve Schnur ex­plained after the victory. "And today only re-enforced that." 
Wildcat coach Gary Barnett could only agree. 
"We so believed we would win this game that we had a very business like fall camp. When we left the hotel today, I told my players that I didn't want to be carried off the field." 
Just watching the game, one could see the different levels of confidence and concentration. 
The Wildcats played mistake free. Schnur threw no inter­ceptions and looked like the Heisman quarterback candi­date of the game. 
The Irish were the exact 
opposite. While Ron Powlus 
didn't throw an interception he 
looked as frazzled as he did last 
season. He tangled feet with 
the offensive line and fell on the 
two-point conversion, and 
couldn't seem to take his eyes 
off wideout Derrick Mayes all 
game. 
And on the fifth play of the 
first series, he couldn't connect 
on a handoff to running back 
Randy Kinder which led to a 
fumble. Talent didn't beat the 
Irish, lack of concentration and 
confidence did. 
"I think that (the fumble) 
really hurt the team mentally," 
Powlus commented. "I don't 
think we recovered from that." 
That became apparent when 
the Irish took a time out direct­
ly after the Wildcats at the end 
of the first quarter. 
"We lined up in the wrong formation," Pow Ius explained. "By the time we got guys switched, we ran out of time." 

But it is still early in the sea­son, and there is plenty of time to get back in the hunt. 
"We've got a long season ahead of us," Mayes explained. "There is no reason to keep our heads down. You just got to bounce back and carry the load." 
Yes, but can the Irish re­
capture an arrogance, or at least a confidence, that will make them winners again? 
"We lost our first game," Powlus said. "Now we have to win ten in a row. I don't think anyone is going to say 'well, OK, maybe we'll be 8-3 this year.' No body is going to say that. We're going to win ten in a row." 
Well, it's a start anyway. 


Irish 
continued from page 1 
yards down the left sideline, the Wildcats had the first down they need­ed. All they had to do after that was run out the clock. 
"I told the players when we boardf)d the b11s that I didn't want to be carried off the field when we won," Northwestern coach Gary Barnett said. "I wanted them to act like we had done this before." 
But upset victories when you're 28­point underdogs on the road don't hap­pen all that often. 
"We believed that we were going to win this game when we started fall camp," Barnett said. "It's just one of those things when you have a bunch of guys that believe in each other and are really tight." 
Those were the same intangibles that the Irish were supposed to pick up at Culver Military Academy. Instead, they came back doubtful in their own and their teammates' abilities. 
· "The mental game is a big part of foot­ball," offensive guard Ryan Leahy said. "That's probably what we're lacking in right now." 
The mental game was lost in the first quarter. On Notre Dame's first drive, Randy Kinder dropped a Powlus handoff without a defender in the same area code. Wildcat linebacker Danny Sutter jumped on the gift. 
"I just think that (the fumble) really hurt us mentally," Powlus continued. "I don't think we ever really recovered from that." 
And the spiral continued downward 
from there. 
The Wildcats took over at midfield and 
pushed the ball into the endzone on 
seven plays. The drive culminated with 
a Steve Schnur six-yard touchdown pass 
to Dave Beazley, who burned corner­
back Allen Rossum on the play. Schnur 
finished the day 14-for-28 for 166 yards 
and two touchdowns. 

After the teams traded field goals in down pass, a 26-yard strike to D'Wayne avoided had the two-point attempt been the second quarter, Notre Dame scored Bates in the third quarter. And, defen­converted on Notre Dame's final score. when Robert Farmer powered into the sively. they recorded four sacks and two But, Powlus fell trying to throw to endzone from five yards out. They could stops of the Irish on fourth down. Derrick Mayes, and the play was ruled have gone into the locker room at half­"We just never had any consistency dead. time tied, but freshman kicker Kevin offensively," Holtz said. "I think Mayes finished the day with eight Kopka missed the point after try wide Northwestern did a good job on third catches for 94 yards. His performance right. downs, and we did not." was overshadowed by that of Autry. who 
But even at halftime, there was not Notre Dame was 3-of-13 on third gained 165 yards on 33 carries for the much doubt that the Irish could pull it down conversions, and 0-for-2 on fourth Wildcats. out in the second half. With as much down. The second fourth down failure When asked why they lost, many play­offensive firepower as the Irish have, came with less than four minutes left on ers scratched their heads in amazement. how could anyone think otherwise? the Irish 44-yard line. Randy Kinder But in an attempt to halt what happened 
"We told our kids since last year that could not get two yards up the middle, in 1994, a frrm resolution was made by if we just don't give up the big play, if and the ball was turned over on downs. the team. we just go toe-to-toe and cheek-to-cheek "With hindsight being 20-20, maybe "We just have to go back and figure with them, we would have a chance to we should have punted the ball in that this out and correct it," Leahy said. win," Barnett said. "But we'll never win situation," Holtz said. "We could have "This team will learn how to win," the game if we give up the big play." held them, forced them to punt and go Powlus added. "There's no one he.re 
Instead, the Wildcats made the big from there." who is going to say, 'Maybe we'll go 8­plays, including Schnur's second touch-That crucial call could have been 3.' We just have to win ten in a row.'' 
• Graded Position Analysis 

Quarterback B-Linebackers B
Ron Powlus completed 17 -of-26 passes for 17 5 yards. But he didn't do anything to put the team over the The only strong unit for the team, but outmanned by hump. He himself said he could have done more. the Northwestern line. Their inability to stop the inside trap killed them. 
Running Backs C-SecondaryD
Both Randy Kinder and Robert Farmer scored, but The closest thing Allen Rossum came to coverage wasthey also fumbled. Lou Holtz hates people who fumble. 

surveilance of them dancing in the endzone. Brian But since they both did it, they both got to play more. 
Magee hit hard, but forgot to cover Wildcat receivers. 
Too bad for Irish faithful. 

Special Teams C Receivers C+ 
Hunter Smith punted well, but Kevin Kopka missed an Derrick Mayes is the man. But he can't be the only extra point. Punt returners couldn't stay on their feet, man. Charlie Stafford is no good as a decoy, because but it's hard to when LaRon Moore is running into you. he hasn't done anything to draw any notice. 
CoachingD 

Offensive Line C-When you're not coasting against a team, you have to Powlus was sacked four times. Come on, Powlus was open the vault and pull out some more plays. Holtz sacked four times by Northwestern. It's not like Mike should have used getting his 200th win for motivation. Mamula plays for the Wildcats or anything. 
Overall Grade 1.78 
Defensive Line D Not even to midterms and the team's already on pro­First of all, how many yards did Darnell Autry gain? bation. Take more science classes and learn about (165). Second of all, who is this guy? Enough said. heart. --Mike Norbut 

page 3 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA Monday, September 4, 1995 

Defense stomped in first half, strides made late 
Hitting starts in second half, but can't make up for being hit in first 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT 
A.ssistam Sports Ediror 
Defense is the name of the game. It will either win or lose the game for you. Irish head coach Lou Holtz knows this, so he brought in Bob Davie to install his "Wrecking Crew" defense. Yet entering the sea­son, the defense was one of the main concerns for Notre Dame. It still is. But it showed some hope on Saturday. 
The Irish are inexperienced, thin in depth and thin in stature. The de(ensive front consists of a 245 pound tackle and a 222 pound rush end. The cornerbacks consisted of one experienced starter who had knee and back surgeries and a small yet quick sophomore making his first collegiate start. The linebackers were the strength of the team, but they needed to help cover weakness in the other two areas along with there own duties. 
In the beginning the defense was a mess. 
There was a lack of intensity, and when Darnell Autry wasn't running all over them, Steve Schnur was leading his receivers past the step-slow cornerbacks. Every pattern over the middle seemed open, and every hole on the line of scrimmage seemed vast. touchdown pass. "The free greatness. 

The Irish were just wondering safety came out of the hole real Nose tackle Paul Grasmanis what would be next, run or hard to make the play there showed intensity and pass rush pass. and was out of position. ability late in the game as he 
"They hit real hard on the D'Wayne (Bates) was open over sacked Schnur near the run because we've been run­the middle." Northwestern nine yard line in ning the ball real well," Yet, the Irish were still within the fourth quarter, the only Northwestern quarterback a touchdown, and later the de­sack of the day for the Irish. Steve Schnur said of his second fense showed some signs of The biggest surprise on the 

• By the Book 
SCORE BY QUARTERS Northwestern 7 3 7 0 1 7 
Noire Dame 0 3 6 6 15 PREY· 

TEAM RECORD POINTS IOUS TEAMSTATS
1. Florida St. (38) 1-0-0 1518 1 NU NO First Downs 14 20 
2. Nebraska (14) 1-0-0 1467 2 Rushes-yards 39·165 47-196 Passing yards 166 175 Comp·att-int 14-28·0 17·26·175
3. Texas A&M (4) 1-0-0 1361 3 
Return Yards 135 56 Punls-average 9-37 7-45

4. Penn St. (1) 0-0-0 1298 4 HFumbles-lost 3-2 Penalties-yards 8-64 1·6 Possession time 28:17 31:43
5. Florida (2) 1-0-0 1293 5 6. Auburn (2) 1-0-0 1276 6 
INDIVIDUAL STATS 

7. Southern Cal 0-0-0 1168 7 RUSHING-Notre Dame: Farmer16-85,TD, 
Kinder 12-68.TD, Edwards 10-49, Stokes 2·15, 

8. Tennessee ( 1) 1-0-0 1073 8 

9. Ohio St. 1-0-0 1018 10 
• Scoring Summary 10. Colorado 1-0-0 972 14 
FIRST QUARTER 

11 . Michigan 2-0-0 951 13 
12. UCLA 1-0-0 922 15 
Northwestern 7, Notre Dame 0 

13. 
Alabama 1-0-0 852 11 (7 plays, 50 yards, 3:02) 8:45-Steve Schnur hits Dave 

14. 
Oklahoma 0-0-0 641 16 Beazley with a 6-yard pass( Sam Valenzisi PAT). Key Play: D. Autry


15. Texas 1-0-0 605 18 
slides past the line and runs for a 14-yard gain. 

16. Virginia 1-1-0 554 17 17. Arizona 1-0-0 529 19 
SECOND QUARTER 

18. Washington 1-0-0 388 22 
19. Miami 0-1-0 282 12 Northwestern 7, Notre Dame 3 (13 plays, 63 yards, 6:30) 
20. Virginia Tech 0-0-0 265 24 
11 : 12-Kevin Kopka connects on a 35-yard field goal. Key Play: 

21. Kansas St. 1-0-0 203 
Powlus hit his tight end P. 

22. 
Syracuse 1-0-0 195 Chrypewicz for a 13-yard gain. 

23. 
N. Carolina St. 1-0-0 191 

24. 
Oregon 1-0-0 187 Northwestern 1 0, Notre Dame 3 (11 plays, 44 yards, 4:07) 


25. Notre Dame 0-1-0 157 9 
7:05-Valenzisi hits a 37-yard field goal. Key Play: Schnur throws a perfect pass to B. Mussel for a 19· yard gain. 

line was sophomore tackle Corey Bennett who seemed to be always near the ball and was second on the team with seven tackles. The Wildcats also seemed to get most of their yardage when they ran away from him. 
Freshman Kory Minor started his first collegiate game and played well early, and of his three tackles. two were for loses. 
Middle linebacker Lyron Cobbins paced the Irish with nine tackles, but, on the whole, 
the  linebackers  were  
disappointing.  
Brian  Magee  once  again  

showed he was one of the best tacklers and defensive backs on the team. 
He ended with six tackles and had one of the most impressive hits in the game as he drilled Brian Musso on a reception over the middle. 
Towards the end of the third quarter, linebacker Bert Berry brought back some intensity with a tremendous hit on Wildcat punt returner Brian Musso. Berry's physical play became contagious and the Irish came to life. They were able to shut down Autry. And while they gave up some long ' passed they made the receivers 
pay. 
It was then that Magee drove through Musso and caused a fumble. But in the end it wasn't enough. 
"As a whole I think we have to step it up a little," nose tack­le Paul Grasmanis said after the game. 

Seymour
Mosley 1 ·3, Powlus 6·(24). Northwestern: D. Autry 33-160, A. Autry 1-5, Matt Hartl HI, 

continued from page I
Schnur 4-(4) Randy Kinder, 12-68, long 15, 1 td 

realized the mystique was myth.
PASSING-Nptre Dame: Powlus 17-26,175 

Last year's Northwestern media guide pro­
yards, 0 TO's. Northwestern: Schnur 14· 28,166, 2. claimed "Expect victory," certainly a bit deluded 
for a team that finished 3-7-1. yards, Edwards 4-37, Mosley 1-26, Chryplewicz After Saturday's game, the same phrase was 1-134, Farmer 1·6, Wallace 1·5, Kinder 1·(6). 
RECEIVING-Notre Dame : Mayes 8-94, 94 

Northwestern : Bates 4-58, 1 TO, Musso 2·42, echoed by numerous of the Wildcat players after Beazley 2·28, lTD, Matt Hartl 2·25, D. Autry 2· 
the game. 
8, Shane Graham 1-3, Drexler 1 ·2. 

In fact, in his pregame address coach Gary 
TACKLES-Notre Dame :Tatum 2, Minor 3, 

Barnett asked his players not to carry him off the 
Cobbins 9, Moore 5, Berry 3, Aossum 4, Magee 7, Wooden 4, Goode 1, Monohan 2, Howard 1, 

field after the win. Expecting victory in Notre 
Mclaughlin 1, Kramer 1. Edwards 2, Wynn 5, 

Dame Stadium. 
Farrell 1, Belisle 1. Friday 1. Smith 3, Grasmanis 4, Bennett 7. Northwestern: 

Perhaps presumptuous, except for the result. 
Fitzgerald 11, Martin 9, Collier 9, lsmaeli 7, Ray 

The Notre Dame tradition of clutching victory 
7, Scharf 7, Bennett 6, Rice 5, Valenzisi 3, Dailey 3, Shein 3, Sutler 3. 

from the jaws of defeat under the arms of Touchdown Jesus scared the Wildcats about as 
much as the possibility of Zeus hurling lightning 
bolts from the heavens. 
"History is history, that's all," stated line­
backer Matt Fitzgerald. "It's something you read
Northwestern 10, Notre Dame 9 

about in books." 
(10 plays, 74 yards, 4:30) 

"If you get caught up in (the tradition), you
2:35-Robert Farmer 5 yard run(PAT 

loose sight of what you're trying to do," added 
quarterback Steve Schnur, whose poise dissected failed). Key Play: Powlus avoids a 
heavy rush to find Mayes for a 17­

the Irish all afternoon. 
yard gain. 

What the Wildcats were trying to do was win a football game. In the old days the legends would have occupied the opponent more than the game 
THIRD QUARTER 
plan. 

What Northwestern realized was that to be 
effective, spirit must be backed by substance.
Northwestern 17, Notre Dame 9 

"When you execute better on (offense, defense, (3 plays, 55 yards, :54) 
12:02-Schnur hits DWayne Bates 

and special teams), you win football games 
with a 26-yard pass(Valenzisi PAT). 

regardless of the stature of the program or 
Key Play: D. Autry, on a delay, 

where you are from," said Wildcat head coach 
rambles for a 29-yard run to the 
Gary Barnett. 
Notre Dame 26. 

"We came in on a business trip preparing for 
war," echoed Fitzgerald. 
Business. War. The concrete world. Rising 
towards an established program is easily 
quantifiable. 

The descent towards mediocrity is tougher to 
FOURTH QUARTER 
Northwestern 17, Notre Dame 15 

express. Senior Ryan Leahy noted that the 
(6 plays, 45 yards, 2:03) 

impact of the loss was still "too abstract." 
6:16-Kinder 2-yard run( 2-point 

The abstract for Notre Dame is far more
conversion failed). Key Play: 

cheery to contemplate. 
Robert Farmer takes a pitch for a 
15-yard gain. 

The reality of a team that has dropped five of its last eight games may be harder to escape. 
~~~~~~~~~~---~-~--------------------------­
Monday, September 4, 1995 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA page 4 






By MIKE NORBUT 
Sporrs Ediror 

There wasn't much doubt as to where the Irish were looking when they were on offense. Derrick Mayes caught eight passes for 94 yards. The rest of the team caught nine passes for 81 yards. 
Could Ron Powlus have been look­ing for Mayes a bit too often? 
"I think I might be forcing the ball to Derrick a little too much," Irish coach Lou Holtz said. "I think it's more me than anybody else." 
Emmett Mosley was the only other receiver to catch a pass. Charlie Stafford was a decoy. But Mayes was double-and triple-teamed through­out the gaine. 
"They don't give us much cushion over to the flanker side, there's no doubt," Holtz said. 
Is it time to look at the other guys? 
''I'm not going to criticize Coach Holtz's play calling," Powlus. "You have to do what you have to do in a situation. 
"And Derrick is the man." 

Slight Mishap: Offensive tackle Chris Clevenger left the locker room with a cast on his left hand Saturday. He tore ligaments in his left hand, but will be able to play with the cast next week. 
Fresh legs, fresh worries: Holtz noted Kevin Kopka's missed extra point attempts as one of the crucial plays of the game. 
"I thought that the PAT that we missed really hurt," the Irish coach said. "The snap was a little bit low, he rushed it a little bit too much and the timing was off. 
"I thought overall our kicking game was pretty good, except for the PAT. It's like, 'Other than the assassina­
tion, how was the play Mrs. Lincoln?'" Hunter Smith punted six balls for a 
49.3 yard average. Scott Palumbo shanked one punt for 16 yards. 
Series End: When asked if he wished the series between Notre Dame and Northwestern wouldn't end this year, Wildcat coach Gary Barnett answered, ''I'd just assume it was over. But, you never know. we 
might see  them in  a  bowl game  
somewhere."  
Everyone laughed.  
Motivational  Techniques:  

Northwestern linebacker Pat Fitzgerald didn't like a television show he saw recently. 
"We watched a Coach Holtz show last week, and on it they asked Coach Barnett when he starts preparing for Notre Dame. We said, 'Right away,"' Fitzgerald said. "Then they asked Coach Holtz when he starts prepar­ing for Northwestern, he said, 'We don't have that luxury. We don't get to think about our opponents like that because we play such good opponents.' 
"Well, I guess that sums it up." The Dilemma: Fitzgerald was mild­ly recruited by Notre Dame. 
''I'm from the south side of Chicago, so I'm a huge Notre Dame fan," the linebacker said. "Just look at my name. 
"The reason I went to North­western, though, was to beat Notre Dame. 'The guys that were close to me said, 'Would you rather play for Notre Dame or would you rather beat Notre Dame?"' 
Fitzgerald wore the number 81 in high school because of Tim Brown. "I guess he can still be my favorite player even though we won," he said. 
-
ACCENT 

Monday, September 4, 1995 page 7 

Xo!re 7Jame sludenls leave !.he beauly ojl.he !Jl&dwesl behindIa sludy amids!!.hePAIN mafes!y of0pain ~ ancien/ cily oj7ofedo 
By DAN CICHAlSKI 
Assistant Acanr Editor 
W 
ile it is probably safe 
o say that everyone 

who passes through Notre Dame in their journey through life remembers the Dome and the Word of Life, there arc a select few each year that will count the hills of Toledo and the Spanish coun­tryside among their Irish mem­ories. For these students who lind the courage to leave beau­tiful South Bend for the winter, the experiences rank among the best of their college careers. 
Toledo, in which the "e" is pronounced like a long "a," as in "hay," is an ancient city in the center of Spain dating back to before the birth of Christ. With a population of just under 60,000, it is a rather small city but one with an immense tradi­tion and history-a history which has led to its declaration as a national landmark. Toledo has been a part of the seven­hundred-year Moorish control of Spain as well as the center of the infamous Spanish Inquisition. It was also the home of the Greek-born painter El Greco; the majority of his works arc displayed in different venues throughout the city. 
Notre Dame's program is part of the International Program of Spanish Language, Latin American and European 
'}think the best way 
to learn a language is by immersing yourself in the culture. Walking into Toledo is like walking into a postcard. It is a very picturesque and historical town.' 
Marisia Parra 

Studies, which as the name suggests, encourages such stu­dent exchanges as a means of cultural education. It is a year­long program with a calendar similar to the one here. Classes begin in early September and conclude in May. Among the class requirements (15 credits each semester) are one course per semester of Spanish lan­guage or Spanish or Latin American literature, further promoting the goals of the pro­gram. 
Although all the classes are taught in Spanish by Spanish and Latin American professors, there is the opportunity for stu­dents of all levels to learn and enhance their knowledge of Spain and the language. "The program is geared towards Americans with varied back­grounds in Spanish," said James Crowe, who spent his sophomore year in Toledo. "There are classes to accommo­date everyone, enabling them to learn a lot." 
All students are required to live in the San Juan de Ia Penetencia Residence for their first semester but have the opportunity in the spring to live with a local family. "I learned so much more while living with a family," said Crowe. "I was lucky to have such a great one and they accepted me as well." This experience allows students to get a feel for life in Spain and make comparisons between this way of life and the one we so fondly call "the American way." 
The program also organizes trips throughout Spain in order to expose students to the coun­try. Several day trips are planned to such cities as Madrid, with its several muse­ums and the seat of the Spanish government and Segovia, another old city which features Roman architecture. 
Classes are held Monday through Thursday, leaving Friday open for these outings. A few longer ones are also on the schedule, such as a visit to the northern province of Galicia and south to the cities of Cordoba and Granada. These trips highlight the best of Spain and its storied history, from seeing the route of the fantastic Don Quixote of Cervantes' book 


Cervantes called Toledo ''the glory of Spain and the light of her cities." 
of the same name down to the to Spain and expenses for the Alhambra, the last Moorish scheduled trips. This similarity fortress to fall before the in costs makes the program a Christian reconquest. great opportunity for students 

With a five week break for to get to Europe when other­the Christmas holiday, there is wise they might not.. "I had plenty of time to tour the rest of always wanted to go to Spain Europe as well. Students have and I figured that college would taken the opportunity to see be the best opportunity," said Italy, Germany, France, Marisia Parra, a senior who, Austria, Switzerland, and unlike most students, spent Portugal, to name a few. One only part of her junior year in Christmas tradition has been to Toledo. "I didn't know when I spend four days, including would have the chance again." Christmas day, on the ski slopes Sophomore year is the time of Austria. Although this trip is most students go, but occasion­organized by the students of the al exceptions have been made. Austria program, all Notre "I had to get special permission Dame students spending the to go my junior year and only year on a European study pro­for a semester," Parra said. "I gram are invited to spend the wanted to make sure I would holiday with the Notre Dame still be able to get all my class family. requirements met." 
Such trips, of course, require Both Parra and Crowe agreed money so the opportunities may that the program provides the be different for each student. best opportunity to learn more As far as the program is con­about Spain and the language. cerned, however, the charge is "I think the best way to learn a similar to the university's on­language is by immersing your­campus room, board, and self in the culture," Parra said. tuition and includes air travel "Walking into Toledo is like 
photo courtesy of Sarah Corson 

walking into a postcard. It is a very picturesque and historical town." 
One hesitation students might feel about leaving Indiana and the rest of the country for a year is the ~hanges both they and those left behind may undergo. 
But, as Crowe points out, that is the least of the worries. "I was a little worried at the end of my freshman year, before I went," he said. "It was a little tough coming back but I still found it very much the same as when I left. I was relieved and do not feel like I lost anything by going abroad." 
So while many graduates from Notre Dame spent all four (or five or six) years at the south bend of the St. Joseph River, there are many who set off for unknown cultures, with Toledo among them. Those who do not go may or may not have their regrets, but those who do go know that this is one decision that will likely turn out for the better. 
• DAYS OF OUR LIVES 
Hope's Back! 'Days of Our Lives' Summer Recap 
By CHRISTINA FTICSAR and ERIN KELSEY 
Days ofOur Livts Correspondents 
Okay, Days of Our Lives fans, this is your day in the sun. An article com­pletely and totally devoted to your favorite soap opera! 
This summer sure was an active one for all of the lovable characters. John Black finally freed Marlena of the devil after many an exciting episode of Marlena trying to sabotage the lives of Salem's finest. But not before Marlena, the devil, pushed Stefano off of her bal­cony, causing him to lose his memory. John has given up the priesthood and taken up with Kristen again, making Tony-the-Tan-Man angry enough to at­tempt to kill him. Tony's first murder attempt was to lock John into a tank filled with water as he attempted a Houdini-like magic trick at a benefit. Luckily, he was brought back to life by miracle doctor-know-it-all, Mike. 
Sammy returned to Salem just in time to beat Carry and Austin's marriage ceremony and announce that she was pregnant with Austin's (?) baby. However, she didn't pull off this scheme without a little help from her friends, 
i.e. Lucas, Vivian, and Ivan. Of course, Lucas and Sammy have so far failed to realize that they also had sex just days before Sammy's encounter with Austin, and that the baby could also be Lucas's. 
The biggest news of the summer is that Gina is now a confirmed Hope, and the original Bo (big butt and all) is back. Bo has chosen to be with Billie; however, he must now get a divorce from Hope. Mickie arranged for Bo and High-Hair Hope to take up residence in an island nation called Santa Rosa so they can get a quickie divorce. Ironically, Bo and Hope had gone there in the past for a few months in between their boat trip around the world. The producers are going wild with old memories. Hope gave Bo a drowning scare so emotions are running high between them. Billie is rumored to be leaving the show so she might as well say good-bye now. 
Jennifer and Peter ran off to Arramid to prepare the old Blake house for their up-and-coming wedding. They expect­ed to find a house full of Peter's fond memories, instead they found a house full of secrets. Someone doesn't want them there, someone tries to kill Jennifer, someone steals their favorite painting and slashes it, and someone insists on walking around looking like a white drape. Are they all the same per­son? Only the Parrot Man knows. 

By the way, Peter, where is Daniel? Laura is desperate for some loving, and according to Jack you killed her only chance in Salem. 
Interested in hearing more about Tony-the-Tan-Man, High-Hair Hope, or Big-Butt Bo? Are you cominced Kristen used to be a man in real life and that is the reason she is having trouble con­ceiving? Do you just love the crazed looks John Black is famous for? Look for next Monday's summary which will also include some interesting predic­tions. 
If you are interested in contributing your own observations and ideas to this column, you can contact Christina by e­mail at Christina.N.Fticsar@l.nd.edu. 
Monday, September 4, 1995
page 8 The Observer • SPORTS was not getting involved. 
• SAINT MARY's SocceR However, one can see how 
-Soccer 
explosive we can be when it starts to click." 
John Carroll gives Belles first setback 

continued from page 12 
The new style also drew in five minutes, both off of on her performance Sunday. In Saturday's 7-0 mauling raves from its most importantBy NICOLE BORDA 
Sporrs Writer corner kicks. "I felt okay at the beginning against Providence, the Irish proponents. but then I started getting tired, "I love playing with three up
Sophomore Sandra Gass be­provided a rude welcome to 
If the best team always won lieved that those two goals said Keyes. "I just couldn't do their new Big East opponents top," VanLaecke said. everything I wanted to." "I like it a lot." McCarthy
in head to head competition, were not a result of error by by scoring five goals in the first 
freshman goalkeeper Joanne Head coach Solomon Scholz, added. "Monica's great to play
the Saint Mary's Belles would half to put the contest out of 
who began his first season with with as the extra forward." 
have come up with a victory Wagner. reach early. 

Saint Mary's, said in response Freshman Shannon Boxx also 
yesterday over John Carroll. "No way it was Jo's fault," Gerardo displayed much 
to the loss, "There's no point to played well, handing out three
Instead the girls suffered a 2-0 Gass said. "It was just a combi­promise scoring two goals in loss in their first game of the nation of bad luck and the team worry about it. They played her first collegiate appearance. assists as she started in place 
as a whole not keeping with well. Just couldn't score." of the injured co-captain Cindy 
season at home. The Belles "I was a little nervous at first, 
Assistant coach Andy Peters Daws.
dominated almost 80 of the 85 their man." but as the game began I started 
The rest of the game was a noted John Carroll had incredi­"For us to dominate a game
minutes of play, but those other to feel comfortable," Gerardo 
bly fast forwards but the Belles like that without Cindy says a
five minutes was when every­struggle for the Belles, as they added. 

thing went wrong. tried to recover. Saint Mary's received a lot of help from de­The opener also featured the lot," Petrucelli said. The Belles came out tough in took 21 shots to John Carroll's fenders Gass and senior new Irish formation which The Irish now travel to 
11. Gwynne Davis. Indiana on Thursday where
the first half. but were unable hopes to create more offensive tt1 connect for a score. When Coaches see a lot of talent in opportunities. At first, there they hope to continue their 
junior Brigid Keyes. However it "This team has a lot of were some problems with the solid play. 
the second half began the team 

was obvious that the knee potential," Gass said, "We're Observer sports writer Dave
looked as though they had lost extra forward. their first half momentum. injury she suffered in Friday's going to learn from today and "Early on we struggled with Treacy contributed to this re­
John Carroll scored twice with-practice had a definite impact just look ahead." it," Petrucelli noted. "Monica port. 
The Observer accep!S classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. ar rhe Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. ar 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
Experienced professional teacher offers tutoring in math, calculus, general physics. John Sienickl 233-7232 
SAVE THIS AD WEEKEND ROOMS FOR N.DJS.M.C. VISITORS. 
5. MIN. FROM CAMPUSES 219-2n-2388 
jtosT&FOUNDI 
Lost two-toned, gold bracelet with clasp on Mon. 8-28. Great senti­mental value. Considerable award offered. Please call 634-31n. No questions asked. 
WANTED 
Looking for a SuperChampionship tennis player to go play a good match. Call Natasha at 4-3490. 
BRIDGETS IS LOOKING FOR CAMPUS BANDS TO PLAY-DROP OFF DEMO TAPE TUES·SAT 8:00 
T.O 3:00A.M. GIVE TO RICH OR CHRISTY 
VOLUNTEERS The Early Childhood Development Center Is looking for volunteers to help for 1.25-2 hours per week at the Notre Dame and the Saint Mary's programs. If you enjoy young children and would be Interested In reading stories, singing songs, and helping children paint, build with blocks, pretend, and more, please call Thayer Kramer at 631-3344 (ECDC·ND) or Cindy Hestad at 284-4693 (ECDC-SMC). 
Earn $2500 & Free Spring Break 
Trips! Sell 8 Trips & Go Freel Best 
Trips & Prices! Bahamas. Cancun, 
Jamaica, Florida! Spring Break 
Travel! 1-800-678-6386 
$1000 FUNDRAISER 
Fraternities. Sororities & 
Student Organizations. 
You've seen credit card 
fundraisers before, but 
you've never seen the 
Citibank fundraiser that pays 
$5.00 per application. 
Call Donna at 
1-800-932-0258 ext. 65. 
Qualified callers receive a 
FREE camera. 
WANT ATHLETIC PERSON FOR PERSONAL TRAINER AND MAS­SAGE THERAPIST. WILL TRAIN. 219-462-8943 
Need a responsible student to 
babysit a toddler in my home (2.3 
mi. north of NO). Times flexible. 
Please call2n-1037. 
FOR RENT 
NICELY DECORATED ROOMS 
FOR RENT. F-BALL WKNDS, 
REASON. RATES, GREAT 
ATMOS., CONTIN. BRKFST, 2 
MILES OFF-CAMPUS. CALL KIM 
277-8340. 
2 BDRM HOME FOR RENT NEAR CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272·6306 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR NO 232-2595 
n d events rooms near nd b& b $60 219-272-9260 
Furnished Room. Clean, attractive. Kitchen privileges. Quiet neighbor­hood. 2 mi. to N.D. $200 per month. Call 282-2576. 
LIVE IN A GOOD NEIGHBOR­HOOD 3BR FURNISHED HOME 5 MINUTE WALK TO NO BULLA AD 2n3097 
Lafayette Square: I must sub-lease ASAP. Just 200 a mo. Call Bryce @ 287-8863 
FOR SALE 
USED TEXTBOOKS-UP TO 40% 
OFF-2 DAY SERVICE -NO­
HOWARD STREET-233-2342. 
OPEN7DAYS 
PANDORA'S BOOKS 
By local1982 NO Grad 1984 BMW 325E Blue 5speed sun­roof + all power options High mileage, looks & runs great $4900 Call 299-0680 
Awesome Tailgatersl!l NO FIGHT­ING IRISH conversion vanl Runs Great, $1995, Call to see!232-9784 
Pontiac Sunbird 2000, 1984, 4 Dr, 
automatic, air, tape deck. Very 
good condition. Recent Goodyear 
tires, brakes, exhaust system. 
28 mpg. 90,000 mi. $1,350. 
291-3125, message or after 5. 
THE PERFECT CARl 1985 HONDA CRX, BLUE, 5-SPEED, GREAT GAS, LOW MAINT. $2400 CALL 271-8280 
1986 Red Mustang, Standard, AMIFM Cassette. In good condition. $2,000. Call287-7928. 
1986 Red Mustang, Standard, AMIFM Cassette. In good condition. $2,000. Call 287-7928. 
15" 150 WATT SUBWOFFER 
(NOTHING BUT PURE BASS) 
$175 O.B.O. x4-1668 
TICKETS 
A DEVOTED IRISH FAN NEEDS 
GA'S TO ANY/ALL 
HOME/AWAY GAMES. 
219-232-0061, 24 HAS. 
TICKET-MART,INC. 
WANTED 
GA'S FOR ANY/ALL 
HOME/AWAY NO GAMES. 
BUY*SELL*TRADE 
(219) 232-0058-24 HAS. 
BUSINESSMAN NEEDS 2or4 NO SEASON TICKETS ANY OR ALL GAMES. OHIO.ST. andWASHINGTON A MUST PLEASE HELP IF YOU CAN ....... . 2771659 
I NEED TIXS TO ALL HOME 
GAMES.272-6306 
1 G.A. TICKET NEEDED FOR B.C. GAME 271·1289 
NEED TEXAS GA'S. CALL ALISON 1-800-431-0010, EXT. 8796. 
Wealthy Alum needs tix for all home games. Brett 272-7223 
Desperately need USC tickets!!I 3 GA's or 2 GA's and 1 Student Please call Chris at 288-7843. 
Need 2 Texas GAs. Desperate and Wealthy! Calll-800-223-2440 Ext.4370 $$$$$$ 
need vanderbilt tickets GA's or married student tlx call Dan@ 273-4780 
need TEXAS. USC, BC tkts 
call Mike x4429 
I HAVE USC TIX Will trade 2 GAs plus stadium park­ing pass for 4 Texas or BC GAs. Call Matt W(312)704-7704 H(312)549-0B25 
Need G.A. Tix to NO-Texas. Call 
Joe at 287-4561 before 10 p.m. 
$$$$$ Need 4 BCtix Will trade Navy (parents weekend) Joe x1728 
NEED NO-TEXAS GA 
OR STUDENT TIX. 
CALL DAVE 609-779-3876. 
NO DAD NEEDS TEXAS, USC & 
PURDUE GA'S. 
219-422-6088. 
**** NEED 2 BC STUDENT TIX *** Call Dave 277-4755 
1111@11@ @1@1@@ @!#$#@$$%$@ 
Larry needs you II He needs your tickets tool Looking for Navy .G.A.s and VAndy GAs or student tix. Call 634-3593 If you can help him out. 1#@#$@$%#@ @#@ @##@@ @#! 
Need Texas GA for Texan sis, NO 
'94 It's her Bday. She has $$ 
Call Stacy x1319 
I NEED TEXAS AND USC GA'SI 
PLEASE CALL SUZV AT X3729. 
PLEASE help a Senior in need! 
For ANY Vandy, USC, or Navy tix, 
you will be compen$atedl 
Nick 3372 
Need Student Booklets and GAs for every game. Call277-4755 
NEEDED: 2 GA's for USC call4x4876 
Student needs 
2 tickets for USC game 
for DOMESICK parents 
please call Bonnie at 634-3397 
with your tickets. 
4 GAs need for Vanderbilt, 273­
3016 
HELP! I NEED 2 TICS FOR VAN­DERBILT-SEPT.16 PLEASE CALL AMY 634-3812 Will trade 2 '96 Daytona 500 tickets for 4 NDrrx tickets. 904-947-6726 from9to5. 
Need 2 NO/Texas tickets. Call904­239-8289 after 5 pm. 
Will trade 2 BC GA's for 2 Texas GA's. 815-282-9503 
HELP WANTED: 
I will do anything for USC GAs. Money no object. 
Brian x3692 
NEED 4 USC GAS BIG MONEY! RUTH x3741 
Need BC GAs 232-9784 
FOR SALE TICKETSIIII 
G.A. S ALL GAMES ••••••• 272-7233!!11111111 
I need one Vanderbilt GA and two Navy GA's. I I you can help me call Heather x4412 
Need a Violent Femmes ticket? Please Call x3097. 
ALUM -needs 2 or 4 ND!TEX • GA's. Will trade 2 ND/NW plus $50 for 2 or will pay $100 each. Call JC or Barry 815-633-7193 
PLEASE SELL ME YOUR STU­DENT TIX BOOKLET AND/OR YOUR TEXAS TIX (STUD/GA). I'LL EVEN THROW IN A FREE BEVER­AGE OF YOUR CHOICE! TIM 291-1353 
Married tickets for sale by game or 
by booklet call x0623 
CAN Y'ALL HELP OUT? 
NEED TEX TIX-GA OR STDNT 
TOP DOLLAR PAID 
CALL KELLI X4044 
Texan Domer needs 2 Texas GA's 
for family. Call Jeff @ 233-2460 
STUDENT and MARRIED 
STUDENT TIX for sale 1-6353 
******* Help •••••••••• 
need 1 Vanderbilt GA 
•••• call Paul x1397 •• 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Former NO student needs SIX 
Texas GAs. Name your price. 
Call Ryan at (608) 849-7702 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
WILL TRADE 4 USC GA + PRKG 
FOR 4 TX GA. 708-948-8293 
WILL TRADE GA TICKETS TO VANDY, TX, OR BC FOR USC/NO TIX. WILL ALSO PAY TOP$ FOR USC/NO TIX. CALL BOB 818-793­0412 
BC TICKETS NEEDED. PLEASE 
CALL KATIE@ 219-271-9856. 
THANKYOUI 
USC TICKETS NEEDED, STU­
DENT OR GA. CALL KATIE AT 
219-271-9856. THANK YOUI 
Need 1 GA or Student for Texas Game!!!!! Will pay lots of $$$$$$$ Please call x4928 Anna 
Need 2 Vandy GA's 
x0652 

NO student needs 6 Texas and 2 Navy tickets for family driving REALLY far to get here ­PLEASE call Kerry @ 634-2925 
Need 4 GA 's for Texas Game need GOOD seats. Call Kristen 277-3019 
Need 2 GA's & 3 Stud tix 4 Texas game -Reggie x4297 
TRADE-2 BCNandbll GAs for 2 USC/Texas GAs -Call 219·273­8379 
Texas Boy needs Texas GAs. Call Miguel at X3336. 
I NEED TXS GA'S MEGAN X3890 
BC BC BC BC BC BC BC BC BC I need BC GAs... call x3975 BC BC BC BC BC BC BC BC BC 
I NEED TEXAS GA'S AND WILL 
PAY GOOD$$$ 
CALL KAREN AT 271-1569 
GA FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE CALL 2719464 OR 2887162 
DESPARATELY NEED 3 G.A. 
TICKETS TO ANY HOME GAME 
FOR MY FAMIL VIII 
$$$$$ PLEASE CALL LIZ x2n6 
2 GAs4 Sale: 
NW,Vandy,UT,Navy 
271-2837. 
I HAVE GA TICKETS FOR TEXAS, VANDY AND NAVY.... IF YOU HAVE TICKETS FOR USC AND WANT TO MAKE A TRADE ..... Call Tom at: 4-3893 
2 navy GAs needed 
-tina 273-3174 
HEY I Need Vandy and Texas tickets call239·7959 ask for Mike 
Need 2 Vandy GA's 
Please call Jon@ X1103 
NEED TICKETS AND PRAYERS. TEXAS GA'S CALL SARAH X4916 
l NEED BC GA'S & STUD TIX! 
CALL JOHN @ 234-5771 
I NEED 2 BC GA'SIII 
CALL KELLY x4801 
TRADE -2 Navy GA'S for 2 
Vandblt. Ga'S call 4-2744 
NEED TEXAS GAs-WILL PAY$$ please call Charlie x2243 
NEED 2 PURDUE TIX 
X3580 

2 NAVY'S FOR EXCHANGE. 
WANT YOUR TEXAS/BC GA OR 
STUD. TIX. NOW! WILLING TO 
NEGOTIATE TERMS OF$, 50 
PROOFS OR WILD ISLAND 
WEEKENDS. X-2158 
NEED TICKETS??? 4 SALE 1 
stud & 1 married stud booklet X4­
3144 

WANTED 5 BC GA'sl!l PLEASE 
CALL JENI 271-1850. 
Need 2 GA's for the Texas game. Will pay $$$$'s. Call Tom X-1105. 
-1 NEED 2 BC TICKETS! 
I have $$$, Navy GAs, and USC 
tix. Please sell or trade. x388711 @VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY@ II 
Stacy needs Tickets to Vanderbilt! GAs are ideal. Help her out and she will pay you the big bucks I Call her at 219-634-4203 and make her an offer. 
"&*%%$@#(Go Irish!)#@$%%*&" 
I need 4 GA tickets for the NAVY game. Call Megan X2638 
2 stud tix 4 all home games 4 sale. ANU x4464 

Did somebody say Deal???? ..... . Desperately seeking 1Texas +lor 
B.C. GA or student ticket. Willing to swap Vandy +lor USC ticket. Call 273-4389 or leave message. 
Willing to trade two Navy G.A.s for Texas tickets. Tom 634-1157 
PERSONAL 
$5.50 HAIRCUTS 
VITO'S BARBER SHOP 1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST SOUTH BEND -233-4767 

JAZZERCISE ITS A FUN WAY TO GET FIT & STAY THAT WAY. 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. CALL 2n-o·111 FOR MORE INFO. 
JAMIE-HAPPY 18TH BIRTHDAY LOVE, MOM, DAD, DUFF, TIGGER, TOSHA, SPROUT AND THE WET ONES. 
Hey, youl I know you're interested in Notre Dame Student Players. Our first meeting of the year is com­ing up soon. Mark your calendars: 
{9/18195, 6 p.m., Notre Dame Room, LaFortune). 
All are welcome. Keep the faith and love alive. Be a part of the action. I'll see you there. 
!@$"&*("$%#"&%$*"&%$#@ HEY STEPHII 4 guys in one nightl@Ill Are you trying to catch up w/our summer record???? Lisa & Eve 1@#$11"%**(*%("&%$#2 
EVE· Letitgoll Just Let it gol 

Happy Birthday Cyndi-Loul SMC isn't the same with out you. :) 
xoxo 

K & L practice good neighbor rela­tions and rock MC 4N. 
Sweetie -you're still cute and I'm not even procrastinating now. 
Cammy-butt. Miss you lots! Pooler. 
yayayayayayayayaya. 
What the ---Jesus. 

Bra, 33 is OK. It worked for Larry Legend. 
Norby, you're 0-4. 

BoSox,BoSox,BoSox,BoSox 
Townies and TWs are our favorites. 
Monday, September 4, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 9 

-
Eagles struggle with 
49ers hold on against Saints 
By DAVE GOLDBERG the game until Tyronne cal might have been a delay Aswc;iated Press Drakeford sacked Jim Everett call that set them back 5 yards 
west coast offense 
and stripped him of the ball on  on a field~goal attempt and  
NEW ORLEANS  fourth-and-10 at the Saints' 40  Doug Brien's 33-yard attempt  JOHN F. BONFATTI  
Are the San Francisco 49ers  with just over a minute left.  then hit the right upright.  Associated Press  
that good.  or  are  the NFL  Drakeford almost took it in for  Marquez  Pope,  Deion  
champions as close to disaster  a score, but fumbled at the 3,  Sanders' replacement and the  PHILADELPHIA  
as they looked in beating New  where the 49ers recovered.  only new starter on defense,  The Tampa Bay Buccaneers  
Orleans 24-22 on Sunday?  There also were major prob·  was burned deep three times  knew they had to upgrade their  
A case could be made for  Iems.  by three receivers, and Young  passing game and their pass  
either as the 49ers opened do·  The offensive line, with Kirk  was the leading rusher with 52  rush. Give the Bucs a passing  
fense of their Super Bowl title  Scrafford in for Harris Barton  yards.  Derek  Loville  and  grade.  
with more mistakes than they  (pulled hamstring), allowed  William Floyd, taking up the  Second-year quarterback  
usually make ln a half-senson.  Young to be sacked thrM times  slack for the departed Ricky  Trent Dilfer threw two touch­ 
Steve Young, who misst~d the  in the 49ers' first two pos·  Watters, bad 48 and 49 but  downs and Tampa Bay got five  
end of the first half with a neck  sessions and five times overall.  Floyd fumbled twice in the  sacks as tlie Bucs spoiled Ray  
sprain, threw for 260 yards  Young's injury came when he  fourth quarter when·the Niners  Rhodes' coaching debut with a  
and two touchdowns,  one a  was  sacked  by  Renaldo  seemed on the wuy to scores.  21-6 victory over the Philadel­ 
classic 50-yarder to Jerry Rice,  Turnbull with five minutes left  Both teams stumbled through  phia Eagles on Sunday.  
and Tim McDonald returned an  in the second quarter.  the first quurter before the  
interception 52 yards for a  On the play after Young left,  Young-Rice classic 52 seconds  Dilfer, making only his third  
touchdown.  Elvis  Grbac  threw  an  ill·  into the second gave the 49ers  pro start, finished 11 of 19 for  
But the 49ers also were lucky  advised pass on third-and-19  a 7-0 lead. It was a  5-yard  215 yards, with touchdown  
the key to the· win was a fum­ that was intercepted by Sean  dump over the middle in whtch  passes to Jackie Harris and Ho­ 
bled snap on New Orleans' first  Lumpkin  and  returned  47  Rice turned toward the left  race Copeland, who replaced  
extra-point attempt that kept  yards for a touchdown.  sideline and outran everyoM,  injured  free  agent  Alvin  
the Saints in a hole throughout.  The 49ers had 10 penalties,  extending his all-time mark to  Harper. Copeland finished with  
San Francisco didn't clinch  eight accepted. The most criti·  140 career TDs.  155 yards on five catches.  
R E S E R V E  OFFICERS'  TRAIN IN  G  CORPS  


Drive. Intensity. Those aren't words you're self-confidence and decision-making skills. likely to see in many course requirements. Again, words other courses seldom use. But Then again, Army ROTC is unlike any 
they're the credits you need to succeed in other elective. It's hands-on excitement. life. ROTC is open to freshmen and sopho­
ROTC will challenge you mentally and mores without obligation and requires physically through intense leadership about 4 hours per week. Register this term training. Training that builds character, for Army ROTC. 
ARMY ROTC 
THE SMARTEST COWGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE. 
For details, visit 216 Pasquerilla Center or call 
631-6986 
The Buccaneers, who had a league-low 20 sacks last sea· son, got sacks from five dif­ferent players, including Warren Sapp, the defensive lineman who dropped to 12th overall in this year's draft fol­lowing reports of drug use. 
Errict Rhett, who rushed for 1,011 yards in only eight starts last season, ran for 83 yards on 25 carries, including a 19-yard TO run. 
The Eagles had little success with the new "West Coast" offense Rhodes brought with him from San Francisco, where he was 49ers defensive coordi­nator. 
Randall Cunningham com­pleted 25 of 36 for 192 yards. But the Eagles had to settle for Gary Anderson's two field goals in the first quarter. 
Ricky Watters, the former 49er who was Philadelphia's most expensive free-agent acquisition, was limited to 37 yards on 17 carries and had a crucial fumble. 
Watters' fumble set up Tampa Bay's second touch· down, a 10-yard pass from Dilfer to Harris early in the fourth quarter. 
The Eagles were driving toward what would have been the go-ahead score when Wat­ters fumbled at the Tampa Bay 33 late in the third quarter. Kenneth Gant scooped up the bobble and returned it to the Buccaneers' 46. Eight plays later, Dilfer found Harris to put the Bucs up by eight. 
After gaining only 4 yards on their first drive, the Bucs got 16 times that on the first play of their second possession, a 64-yard touchdown reception by Copeland. 
Irish 
continued from page 12 
the two teams battled furiously, refusing to back down despite some tremendous individual and team performances. 
With the crowd on their feet, Harris delivered one of her trademark spikes that deflected off USC's Jennifer Kessy and out of play. A standing ovation ensued that seemed to spark Notre Dame to easily win the fourth and final game 15-6. 
"It was definitely the key play of the match," said May. "It was a great way to end the game, and it gave us a lot of confidence heading into the fourth game." 
The Irish had trouble shaking off the cobwebs early against Northwestern on Friday night, but they rallied to win going away against a pumped up Wildcat squad. 
May was brilliant in her first game starting at setter, con­tributing a game high 54 assists, while Harris added 24 kills and nine digs in the victo­ry. 
"It was definitely a great way to start out the season," said Brown. "Winning here both nights was exactly what we wanted to come out and do." 
It became apparent Saturday that the Irish will be doing a lot more of it this season. 

page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, September 4, 1995 
-
•NFL 
Patriots defeat Browns in season opener 
By HOWARD ULMAN 
Associated Press 
FOXBORO, Mass 
Drew Bledsoe lived up to expectations. The surprise was the outstanding running game that made his job easier. 
New England, the NFL's sec­ond worst rushing team last year, got 102 yards on 19 car­ries from rookie Curtis Martin. The most important yard was the one he covered on a dive into the end zone with 19 sec­onds left that gave the Patriots a 17-14 comeback win Sunday over the Cleveland Browns. 
Bledsoe led the winning, 85­yard march by completing 5 of 8 passes for 72 yards. He also kept it alive with a 1-yard sneak on fourth-and-1 that put the ball at the Cleveland 2-yard line with 1:14 to go. 
Nothing special for the much­hyped, Pro Bowl quarterback starting his third season. 
"That's what he's supposed to do," Patriots coach Bill Parcells said. 
No one was sure what Martin would do despite the third­round draft pick's strong exhi­bition season. He provided a good clue when he ran 30 yards on New England's first play from scrimmage. Its longest run last year was 26 yards by Marion Butts. 
"It's a big load off to know 
that you can actually go out and 
pound on people," Bledsoe said. 
"That's what we felt we had to 
do." 
Martin's touchdown allowed 
the Patriots to overcome Vinny 
Testaverde's touchdown passes 
of 70 and 30 yards to Michael Jackson that gave Cleveland a 14-6 halftime lead. 
The last drive had "a certain presence to it. We wanted to win and this was the chance," said Martin, the key to the Patriots' switch from power to elusiveness in their running game. "I always keep it in mind that I'm a rookie, but I want to play like a veteran -no fum­bles, no mental errors." 
The Browns made one big mental error, allowing fullback Sam Gash to get free for a 30­yard completion for a first down at the Cleveland 25 with 
3:05 remaining. 
"We didn't figure it was going to come open as wide as it did," Bledsoe said. 'They blew a cov­erage on that play. They didn't account for him." 
The Patriots won their last seven regular-season games last year, then lost at Cleveland 20-13 in the first round of the 
BAP11ST 
STUDENT 
UNION 
playoffs. 
Bledsoe started his third pro season by completing 30 of 4 7 passes for 302 yards. But until the final march, he couldn't engineer a touchdown drive as Cleveland's defense was solid near its goal line. 
The Patriots had gotten to the Browns' 2, 3 and 10 on long drives but settled for three field goals by Matt Bahr, two cover­ing 21 yards and another 28. 
"As a defense, you have to get the ball and get their offense off the field," Browns strong safety Stevon Moore said. "Two min­utes, three minutes, those min­utes start to add up." 
The Browns relied on quick strikes for their scoring plays. They had the ball for just four plays in the first quarter, but one was Jackson's 70-yard touchdown. 
They got the ball with 1:17 left in the half and needed just 

MEETING AT 
CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
7:00 P.M. MONDAYS FOR INFORMATION CONTACT 
l.EANN AT 634-1507 
COME FIND OUT WHAT WE1RE ALL ABOUT 
r---------------------, 
Shorin-Ryu I Karate 
•Discipline •Self-Defense 
•Self Confidence •Fitness 
Classes Begin Wednesday, September 6 Continuous Program -$15.00 Per Semester Meets: Mondays &Wednesdays 4:30-6:00 Rockne RM. 219 · . Black Belt Instructor: Carl Putnam 
Register in Advance at RecSports For More Info. Call 1-6100 
R--~ 
L---------------------~ 
EARN CASH by DONATING 
You could earn: 
$30°0after your first plasma donation! 
$15°0 if you donate alone 
+$ 5°0 if you show college I. D. (first visit) 
+$1 000 per person i: you recruit someone and they donate $30°0 TOTAL! Help Us Save Lives Must be 18 years old; proof of current address with photo I.D. 

five plays and 50 seconds to cap the drive with Testaverde's 30­yard scoring pass on which the 6-foot-4 Jackson outleaped 5­10 cornerback Maurice Hurst. 
"We did some good things offensively," Cleveland coach Bill Belichick said, "but, then again, we got shut out in the second half." 
The Patriots snapped a three­game opening-day losing streak thanks to a drive they began 
University of Notre Dame International 
with 4:29 left. 

Dave Meggett, acquired in the offseason for his pass-catching skills on third down, picked up 6 yards on a third-and-3 to the Cleveland 12 with two minutes remaining. 
After two incompletions, Bledsoe hit Ben Coates for a 9­yard gain to the 3. Then Bledsoe barely made the first down with a sneak. 
Study Program in 

MEXICO CITY, MEXICO 
INFORMATION MEETING With Professor Angela Borelli 
TUESDAY SEPTEMBER 5, 1995 202 DEBARTOLO 4:30 P.M. 
Returning students will be on hand to answer questions 

Take Kaplan and get a higher score~ •• 

•••or your money back!* 
We have the great teachers and powerful test-taking strategies you need. 
get a higherscore 1-800-KAP-TEST 
KAPLAN 
E-mail: info@kaplan.com America Online: keyword "Kaplan" 
COME TO: HOURS: 

Internet home page: http:/ /www.kaplan.com AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL M-F: 9--6 515 LINCOLNWAY WEST SAT: 8-5 
"Offer limited to selected test dates. May not be valid outside of South Bend. Restrictions apply. Call for details. 
SOUTH BEND, IN 46601-1117 234-6010 


CALVIN AND HOBBES 
1.\oSBE'S IS ALLOWED TC> 
E~T AT 1\-\t. Tt>,BLE W\11-\ 
Mt. TOt-l\GI-\T ;> 
Monday, September 4, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 11 
Al-\D WE GEl TO Ef\T 
EI'.RL'{ f\~1) 1-\~~t. GRILLED 
CI-\EESE st...NOW\CI-\ES? 
11\\S 1'5 MORE LIKE IT.' 

DILBERT SCOIT ADAMS 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 

-
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 1995 (For your personalized daily Jeane Dixon horoscope. based on your own date of birth, call 1-900-988-7788. Your phone company will bill you 99 

cents a minute.) HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Your self-confidence will see you through several tricky challenges. Get ready for a big career boost in November! A passionate love affair will reach the now-or-never stage in December. People you meet while traveling give you valuable insights. New financial success follows. Con­tinue to practice the thrift so typical of your sign. Save money for invest­ment purposes. CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: golfer Tom Watson, dancer Mitzi Gaynor, swimmer Dawn Fraser, food author Craig Claiborne. ARIES (March 21-April 19): Know people well before you go into business with them. Put an old argument to rest without further delay. A gloomy attitude will ham­per progress. TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Casual get-togethers with friends and family are favored. Observe all traffic. and water safety rules. Dining outdoors can sharpen appetites. Avoid overindulgence in food or drink. GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Make this an almost labor-free day by sharing cooking and entertaining chores. Meet at a park, by the water or in someone·s backyard. A gentle, casual approach breaks the ice with someone shy. CANCER (June 21-July 22): Tact and discretion will help you bridge a generation gap. Someone sees you in a new light. Plan recre­ational activities that everyone will enjoy. then keep your camera ready to record those happy moments. LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You could be happily surprised by your kinfolk today. Have fun reminiscing about other family gatherings. Your popularity is on the rise. Do not for­get sun lotion and a hat if spending time outdoors. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22) A wonderful day for communing with nature. Take a walk with your favorite canine companion. Putter­ing in the garden may hold more appeal than an end-of-summer beach party. Do ) our own thing. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Plunge into festive diversions, cook­ing a meal on the barbecue or play­ing games with the small fry. Avoid­ing controversial subjects will help keep the mood upbeat! 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Make the most of this carefree holi­day. Refuse to rush or fuss. A picnic in the backyard may be the most attractive option for stay-at-home types. Heed a loved one's advice regarding money. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): A fish fry. backyard barbecue or potluck supper can be lots of fun provided loved ones lend a hand. Put your best foot forward. Be the kind of host or guest that everyone admires. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your energy level should be high on this fun-packed day. Eating tasty fruits and vegetables will keep you from packing on unwanted pounds. Stand firm. Calmly tell interfering parents not to meddle anymore! 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Take advantage of a special sale to purchase back-to-school clothes. Small social gatherings are favored over larger ones later today. Spend time with those nearest and dearest to your heart. Exchange confi­dences. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Soothe frayed nerves by indulging yourself. Read a good book or listen to music. A midday phone call brings wonderful family news. Some will become engaged. Sharing secrets with that special person makes everything seem worthwhile. 

• 

SPORTS 

page 12 Monday, September 4, 1995 
• WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Notre Dame pounds Friars, Red Storm 
McCarthy, Gerardo lead Irish to decisive victories over Big East 
By JOE VILLINSKI Assistant Sports Editor 
When the women's soccer game concluded on Sunday following the second Irish demolition of a Big East opponent during the weekend, a conspicuous blank spot on the Alumni Field scoreboard told the whole story. 
Even the youngest Irish fan who gathered around their favorite play­er after the game for an autograph understood its importance. 
This blank spot, designated S.O.G. on the scoreboard, meant that St. John's .had managed not one shot on goal during Notre Dame's 9-0 shutout. 
Irish netminder Jen Renola might have regretted not bringing a few books with her to get some work done as the Red Storm posed no more of a threat than a small rain cloud during the rout. 
"Part of our defending is not hav­ing to defend at all," head coach Chris Petrucelli said. 
That philosophy remained ef­fective as St. John's could not cross midfield all day. When they did, any threat was put down immedi­ately by the attacking Irish defense. 
"We train very hard and our ability was much better than theirs," senior Ragen Coyne said. 
This superior ability shown through in the opening minutes as Coyne fired a shot off the crossbar and forward Rosella Guerrero was there to put in the rebound for the opening score. 
''I'm excited because it feels great to play again," Guerrero comment­ed. 
Forward Michelle McCarthy scored the first of her three goals against St. John's as she headed one in. off a feed from midfielder Stacia Masters, making the score 2-0. 
"We were all anxious to play this weekend," said McCarthy who also scored two goals Saturday against Providence. "It felt good to be back." 
After Guerrero's second goal put the Irish up by three, sophomore Holly Manthei was kicked in the back of the leg and went out for the rest of the half. While the Irish still controlled the ball, their scoring chances decreased. 
"After the third goal we lost our intensity and focus," Petrucelli said. "Its hard to keep focused when you know the game is won already. During halftime we wanted to regain that intensity." 
In the second half Manthei re­turned and started a four goal bar­rage, assisting McCarthy's second goal on a corner kick as McCarthy took the ball out of the air and put it away with a sideways kick. 
"Freshman Monica Gerardo added two goals while Jean McGregor and Amy VanLaecke also tallied goals. Masters and Coyne each had two 

The Observer/Mike Ruma and Brent Tadsen 
assists apiece. 

Top: Julie Vogel dribbles through opposition. 
Bottom: Megan Middendorf celebrates after scoring a 
see SOCCER I page 8 goal against Providence . 

• VOllEYBAll 

Irish dominate Southern Cal 
By MIKE DAY Leading the way for the Irish were a pair of sopho­Sports Writer mores. Second-year outside hitter Angie Harris recorded 20 kills and 13 digs, while former middle 
Football aside, this weekend wasn't a complete dis­aster. 
Eager to show that they are every bit as good as 
last year's record setting squad, the Notre Dame vol­
leyball team more than delivered that statement this 

.. weekend, methodically dismantling No.9 USC and unranked Northwestern in the opening matches of the season. The Trojans may have entered Saturday's contest ranked ahead of the No.11 Irish, but after falling 15­2, 11-15, 15-13, 15-6, they left South Bend firmly be­lieving that this year's squad definitely rivals the 1994 group they (USC) defeated in three straight games. "The last two times we played them, we didn't real­ly have the pride," said senior co-captain Brett Hensel. "This year we were ready for them, and it was a great way to start the season." 
blocker Jaimie Lee added 12 kills and 10 digs despite starting only her second game at outside hitter. 
Junior Kristina Ervin (nine kills, nine digs), setter Carey May (46 assists, 15 digs) and Jen Briggs (eight kills, 12 digs) also stepped up on Saturday in a well-balanced Irish attack. · 
"Different people came up big for us at different stages of the match tonight," said head coach Debbie Brown. "It was a great team win that everyone can be proud of." 
Although the Irish charged out of the gates in a hurry, whipping the confused Trojans 15-2 in the first game, the turning point of the match occured in the final moment of the pivotal third game. 
Serving for the game at 14-13, Briggs initated what proved to be the most exciting point of the weekend. Knowing the importance of winning the third game, the two teams battled furiously, refusing to back 
• Saint Mary's Soccer 
at Purdue 
Women's Soccer 
see page 8September 9, 2:30 EST at Indiana 
Volleyball 
Bloomington, IN Big Four Classic 

September 7, 7 PM 
• Buccaneers shock Eagles 
Bloomington, IN 
September 8 & 9 Cross Country see page 9 

Men's Soccer 
at Ohio State September 15 vs. Valparaiso 

• Patriots beat Browns 
September 8, 7:30 EST see page 10 

I'he Observer/ Paid Advertisement 
University ofNotre Dame 

Center for Social Concerns 
"... love tenderly, act justly and walk humbly with God " 
1995-96 DIRECTORY OF UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE SERVICE AND SOCIAL ACTION GROUPS 

This directory Includes more than 30 Center-related student groups as well as some 40 community agencies(*) seeking volunteers. Numbers In parentheses 
refor to listings on pages 2 and 3. 
ADULT UTERACY 

Center for the Homeless (12) Center for Basic Learning Skills (13) l>lsmas !louse (20) Literacy Council (39) South Bond Community Schools' Adult Education (60) St. Margaret's House (55) YWCA Women's Shelter (68) 
ADULT-OLDER 
Hoalthwln Hospital (29) Milton Homo (43) Northeast Neighborhood 
Association (44) Portagn Manor (51) 
CHILDREN -YOUNG (Abo see Tutoring) 
Big Brothers/Sisters (7) Boys and Girls Club (8 ) Broadway Christian Parish (9) CILA (Community for tho International Lay 
Apostolate(16) Center for tho Homtlloss 112) Council for Fun and Learn (19) 
El Buon Vecino (21) El Camplto (22) Family and Children's 
Center (23) Headstart (28) Hoalthy Babies (30) HUGS (35) Junior Achievement of 
Mlchiana (36) Madison Center (411 St. Hedwig's Outreach 
Center (54) YWCA Womtm's Shelter (68) Youth Services Bureau (67) 
CRIMINAL JUSTICE 
Amnesty International (4) l>ismas House (20) Legal Services (38) Parkviow Juvenile Center (49) Sex OITenso Services (59) 
CULTURAL ISSUES 
African American Studtmt Alllanctl (1) CASH (Committee to Assist lllspanlcs) (11) Hispanic American 
Organization (31) La Casa do Amistad (371 Northern Ireland 
Awareness (471 ODN (Overseas Development Network) (48) Students for Social Awareness (62) 
DISABIUTY SERVICES 
Best Buddies (6) Corvllla (181 Logan Volunteers (401 Madison Center (41) NISDC (Northorn Indiana State 
Developmtmt Centor) (461 Portage Manor (511 SuperSibs (631 
ENVIRONMENT 
Foodshnrn (251 Recyclln' Irish (52) SEA (Studonts for Environmental 
Action) (58) 

HOUSING AND HOMELESSNESS 
Broadway Christian Parish (9) Conter for the HomelllSS (12) Habitat for Humanity (27) HopP. Resr.un Mission (33) Salvation Army (60) St. Margaret's House (57) St. Vincent do Paul (56) YWCA Women's Shtllter (68) 
HUNGER CONCERNS 
FoodShare (25) OON (Overseas llevolopmont Network) (481 World Hunger Coalition (66) 
MEDICAL 
AIDS Ministries/Assist (3) 
Amorlcan Cancer Society (2) 
Center for the Homeless (121 
Chapin Street Health Center (141 
First Aid Services (24) 
Hospice (34) 
HUGS (35) Memorial Hospital Medical Explorers (42) 
MULTI-SERVICE GROUPS 
African American Student Alliance (1) 
Arnold Air Society (51 
CASH (Committee to Assist Hispanics) (111 
ClLA (Community for the International Lay Apostolato) (16) 
Goodwilllndustrles of Michiana (26) lllspanlc American Organization (31) ODN (Overseas Development Network) (48) 
Pax Christl (50) 
Women United for Justice and Peace (651 World Hunger Coalition (661 

WELCOME! 
I hope you enjoy reviewing the opportunities outlined in these pages. The experiential and service learning involvements have been extremely valuable for students over many years. Alumni in many different careers are continuing to integrate their ND and CSC expe· riences as they work for a more just and humane world. 
Please explore the challenges open to you, and others. Stop in at the Center or give us a call! 



Director 

MISSION STATEMENT OF THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
The Center for Social Concerns provides educational experiences in social concerns inspired by Gospel values and Catholic social teachings. Central to this process is enhancing the spiritual and intellectual awareness of students, faculty, staff, and alumni!ae about today's complex social realities~ calling us all to service and action for a 
1

w more just and humane world. 
PEACE AND JUSTICE ISSUES 
Amnesty International (4) 
CILA (Community for the International Lay Apostolate) (16) 
Model UN (441 Northern Ireland Awareness (471 ODN (Overseas Development 
Network) (481 Pax Christi (50) Right to Ufo (53) Women United for Justice and 
Peace (65) World Hunger Coalition (66) 
TUTORING (Also see Children-Young) 
Big Brothers/Sisters (7) Center for the Homeless (12) CILA (Community for the 
International Lay 
Apostolate) (16) Community of Caring (17) Council for Fun and Learn (19) El Buen Vecino (21 I La Casu de Amistad (38) NSHP (Neighborhood Study Help 
Program) (47) l'arkviow Juvenile Faculty (51) Safe Station (73) Slice of Ufe (64) St. Stephen's Good News 
Club (58) St. Hedwig's (56) STEP (Student Tutorial 
Education Program) (66) Volunteers for Youth (68) 
WOMEN'S CONCERNS 
C.A.R.E. (Campus Alliance for 
Rape Elimination) (10) Home Management Services (32) Hight to Lifo (55) St. Margaret's House (57) Women's Care Center (69) Women United for Justice and 
Peace (70) YWCA Women's Shelter (74) 
ONE TIME SERVICE OPPORTUNITIES 
Christmas In April (15) Dlsmns House (20) Habitat for Humanity 1271 Neighborhood Housing 
Services (46) Salvation Army (60) St. VIncent do Paul (59) 
NOTE: Dorms. classes, or speclallntor­est groups may wish to organize special projects with groups or agencies listed here. For further Information, contact Kathy Royer, Center Coordinator of Service and Social Action Groups, at 631-5293. 

Service Learning Coordinators 
Where Servinu and Learningjoin Hands 
As you can see from the m~~~e~~ of the Center for Social Concern~ted to providing opportunities for students, as well as others, to be of service to the community and to learn as they serve. We have discovered that both of these goals can be better reached if there is cooperation with people and agencies in the community who are working for positive change. One thing that happens when students begin to work in the community to address the needs of the people they meet is that they become acquainted with people who have dedicated their lives to serving their communities. These new friends become role models and teachers to our students. 
As I think of people who have provided that kind of example, I think of Sr. Ethne Kennedy. Sr. Ethne is a woman who has dedicated her life to serving others. She came to South Bend five years ago to help start a program to serve people with AIDS and their families. She, along with a growing team of dedicated folks, has developed a program called AIDS Ministries/AIDS Assist that serves people who have AIDS and educates the community about the disease and how to prevent it. While Sr. Ethne may be old enough to retire, she sees so much to be done that she doesn't want to slow down. Last year she had knee replacement surgery. But that only served to make her more mobile and active. Sr. Ethne is a teacher and a shining example to the Notre Dame students who have become involved in serving people with AIDS in South Bend. 

The Center for Social Concerns wants to intro­duce more and more students to people like Ethne. We want to make it possible for students to learn and serve. In order to do this we have begun a new program that places "Service Learning Coordinators" in community service agencies in South Bend. These coordinators are key people who introduce students to people and programs in the South Bend community that are making a difference. We currently have five Service Learning Coordinators in the South Bend community. They are located at Logan Center, the South Bend Center for the Homeless, La Casa de Amistad, the Northeast Neighborhood Association and Chapin St. Clinic (See program descriptions on pages 2 and 3). These people are experts in helping students make a differ­ence. They also serve to give guidance and pro­vide resources so that students can learn and grow from these experiences. 
We, at the Center for Social Concerns, believe that serving our community and our world is a vital part of being well educated. We know that service experiences can create lasting impres­sions. We are committed to making it possible for students to make the most of these experi­ences. The "Service Learning Coordinators" are just one way that we put you in touch with people like Sr. Ethne so that one day you may be a teacher as she is. 
Kathy Royer Coordinator, Service and Social Action Groups 
• COMPUTER CWSTER ACCESS TO DIRECTORY OF CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS SERVICE PROGRAMS 
There is a complete hypercard directory of service groups and community agencies on the Notre Dame computer network. The service projects are arranged according to type of service. It is menu driven so that you can select programs that are interesting to you. Anyone can access this by following these directions: 
On all Macintosh computers in the computer clusters there is an icon in the upper right hand cor­ner labeled CMS A. Open that icon. 
Open the file called Courseware 
Open the tlle called Other 
Select the file labeled The Center for Social Concerns 

When you then open the flle called A Guide to CSC Programs, you will receive a message that the environment does not support color. Just click OK and proceed with the interactive program. 
Information about various programs at the Center for Social Concerns Is available on this pro· gram. For the community service directory, select Service and Social Action Groups from the main menu. 

.INSIDE 

CSC Service and Social Action Opportunities I see pages 2,3 Academic Courses/Experiential Learning Seminars and Other CSC Programs and Activities I see page 4 
Nurture Life Through Service 
page 2 CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS The Observer/Paid Advertisement 
CSC Groups and South Bend Com 
1-AFRICAN AMERICAN STUDENT ALLIANCE 
Volunteers -to work in service pro­jects in South Bend. The AASA has pledged to serve the African American community in South Bend ~s they are able and where the needs are the great­est. 
Contact: Tanya Walker -634-3027 
Veleda Briggs-634-2499 

2-AMERICAN CANCER SOCIE1Y 
Volunteers -to organize on-campus a·wareness raising and fund-raising events. 
Contact: Heather Banks-634-2541 
Nicole Chiappetta-634-1318 

3 -AIDS MINISTRIES COMMITTEE/ AIDS ASSIS 
Volunteers -to give social .support to individuals who are HIV+ by providing support and assistance with office tasks. 
Contact: Jessica Golby-634-1451 
Patty Foglesong -634-4421 

4-AMNES1Y INTERNATIONAL 
Volunteers-for letter writing, petition signing, special campaign work, and informal discussions about human rights issues worldwide. 
Contact: Elizabeth Trantowski ­
634-3725 
Dianne Longabucco -634-0746 

5 -ARNOLD AIR SOCIE1Y 
Volunteers-are members of a nation­al collegiate organization of Air Force ROTC dedicated to interaction with the community. 
6-BEST BUDDIES 
Volunteers -develop their relation­ships with persons with mild to moder­ate mental retardation by going to movies, sporting events, concerts, muse­ums, and by participating together in recreational activities. 
Contact: Meg Ryan-634-2811 

7-BIG BROTHERS/SISTERS 
Volunteers -to provide shared time 

and friendship between a student and a 
child. 
Contact: David Gunther -634-0823 
Amy Richardson-273-2283 

8 -BOYS & GIRLS CLUB 
Volunteers -to assist with tutoring, 

health and recreation programs for ages 
5 through 18. 
Contact: Craig van Meter -232-2048 

9-BROADWAY CHRISTIAN PARISH 
Volunteers -to help with the Sunday meal-cooking, serving and cleaning up. Agency Phone: 289-0333 
10-C.A.RE. (CAMPUS ALIANCE FOR RAPE ELIMINATION) 

Volunteers -are students and facul­ty/administrators from both Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. C.A.R.E. mem­bers make dorm presentations about rape on campus and sponsor rape sup­port group on campus. 
ll -CASH ~COMMITTEE TO ASSIST HISPANICS) 
Volunteers -to reach out to the 
Hispanic community of South Bend 
through a variety of service activities, 
educational programs, and cultural 
awareness projects. 
Contact: Beth Rabadan -634-4898 
Liz Morlan -634-2639 
12-CENTER FOR THE HOMELESS 
Volunteers -work in many areas in the Center-manage the front desk, help with the serving of meals, work with the children and families and tutors and friends, work with the facilities at the Center or help with administrative and organizational tasks. 
Contact: Felicia Leon -282-8700 
13 -CENTER FOR BASIC LEARNING SKILLS 
Volunteers -tutor adults from 9:30­
11:30 Monday through Thursday morn­ings at the Center for Basic Learning Skills in South Bend. 
Contact: Andrew Payne -634-9196 
14­

lal'RlS UOT'" 'd' I' .
Volunteers -a~ . proVI mg c 1mc health services for Si'use who are med­ically indigent. Also to work with young girls in the Slice of Life Program. 
Contact: Michelle Huber-289-7662 
15 -CHRISTMAS IN APRIL 
Volunteers -to upgrade neighborhood homes and lift residents' spirits. 
16-CILA (COMMUNI1Y FOR THE INTERNATIONAL LAY APOSTALA TE) 
Volunteers -are a group of friends united to answer what we believe to be our Christian calling to love God in ser­vice to those in need. We follow this call­ing by working in the South Bend com­munity for and with all sorts of people, from the young to the elderly. As a com­munity, the focus is also international. 
17-COMMUNI1Y OF CARING 
Volunteers -Commit to spending one hour per week at Clay Middle School with one of their programs which serve students with special needs. 
18-CORVILLA, INC. 
Volunteers -to develop one-to-one relationships with Corvilla residents. Corvilla is a home for persons with men­tal retardation. 
Agency Phone: 289-9779 
19 -COUNCIL FOR FUN AND LEARN 
Volunteers -work with learning dis­abled children every Saturday morning helping them to meet the specific goals and objectives of the program. 
Contact: Matt Aranha-634-1645 
Sarah Lynch -634-2585 
Elizabeth Mandile-634-7871 
20 -DISMAS HOUSE 
Volunteers -needed to cook for the residents on week nights. Students are also needed to live at Dismas House. 
Contact: Chris Martin -233-8522 21-EL BUEN VECINO 

Volunteers -tutor people in English and help them study for their high school equivalency. They also help with child care and work with mothers to teach money management skills and health and nutrition information. 
Agency Phone: 287-7681 
22-EL CAMPITO DAY CARE CENTER 
Volunteers -provide role models for young children from single parent fami­lies. Volunteers also assist regular day care instructors in planning and imple­menting their organized program. 
Agency Phone: 232-0220 
23-FAMILY AND CHILDREN'S CENTER 
Volunteers-to provide role models for children who have been taken away from their parents, often for abuse. 
Contact: Lila Fingerhut -259-5666 
24-FIRST AID SERVICES TEAM 
Volunteers -provide coverage for inter-hall sports, concerts, home football games, AnTostal, Keenan Review, cam­pus runs, and any other ND/SMC activity that requests the team's service. 
Contact: Kristen Carey -634-2917 
25 -FOODSHARE 
Volunteers -to deliver, in groups of four or five, the leftover food from the campus dining halls to the Center for the Homeless and Hope Rescue Mission in South Bend. 
Contact: Kevin Minbiole-634-1883 
26-GOODWILL INDUSTRIES OFMICHIANA 
Volunteers -to help with half-price sales at Goodwill stores. Contact: Joan Wesolowski-234-1661 
27-HABITAT FORHUMANI1Y 
Volunteers -to work ori construction crews, donate materials, and provide meals for the work groups. 
Contact: Heather Hughes-273-8575 
Josh Briggs -273-2938 
28-HEADSTART 
Volunteers -needed to work two hours per week with children on a one­to-one basis. 
Contact: Lois Clark-234-2150 
29-HEALTHWIN 
Volunteers -to make weekly visits to patients on a one-to-one basis. Agency Phone: 272-0100 
30 -HEALTHY BABIES 
Volunteers -to care for one or two babies at least two hours per week. Contact: Carrie Pugh-282-8618 

31-HISPANIC AMERICAN ORGANIZATION 
Volunteers-to help the NO communi­ty understand and celebrate the Hispanic American culture. Volunteers serve the Hispanic Community in South Bend through work with neighborhood centers and a local parish. 
Contact: Steve Hernandez 

32-HOME MANAGEMENT SERVICES 
Volunteers -to help with individual counseling for women in home manage­ment, finances, etc. They are also need­ed to help with child care. 
Agency Phone: 287-5961 

33 -HOPE RESCUE MISSION 
Volunteers-to serve meals to persons who are homeless and destitute, assist with the maintenance of the facility, and visit residents on a one-to-one basis. 
Agency Phone: 288-4842 

34-HOSPICE 
Volunteers -to visit terminally ill patients in their homes. Contact: Liz Machek-237-0340 
35 -HUGS (HELPFUL UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS) 
Volunteers -work with the Memorial Hospital Pediatric Intensive Care Unit. Contact: Stacy Raczaka -634-3840 
36-JUNIOR ACHIEVEMENT OFMICHIANA 
Volunteers -to teach three different programs at area schools: Project Business, The Basics of Business, Economics of Staying iii School. 
Contact: Maureen Egan or 
Shannan Kurlancki-234-4166 

37 -LA CASA DE AMISTAD 
Volunteers -to tutor young people at La Casa after school. They are also wel­come to help with recreational activities and immigration assistance. 
Contact: Jim Hogan-233-2120 

38 -LEGAL SERVICES 
Volunteers -to serve as intake work­ers. The program provides free legal representation to low-income persons. 
Agency Phone: 234-8121 

39-LITERACY COUNCIL 
Volunteers-to tutor adults. 
Contact: Tom Brubaker -235-6229 

40-LOGAN VOLUNTEERS 
Volunteers -to assist with organizing games and doing arts and crafts projects with and for Logan Center clients. 
Contact: Mike Carney-634-1057 

41 -MADISON CENTER 
Volunteers -for the Adolescent Day treatment program which assists emo­tionally handicapped adolescents to adapt to a normal school and communi­ty life. Other programs include Sex Offense Services, Children's Day Treatment and Children and Adolescent Tutoring. 
Agency Phone: 234-0061 

42-MEMORIAL HOSPITAL MEDICAL EXPLORERS 
Volunteers -to work with staff at 

Memorial Hospital and assist with med­
ical procedures. 
Contact: Michelle McGarry-634-2710 

43-MILTON HOME 
Volunteers -to visit elderly residents on a one-to-one basis. Agency Phone: 233-0165 
The Observer/Paid Advertisement 
CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS page 3 
unity serving and learning together 
44 -NORTHFAST NEIGHBORHOOD ASSOCIATION 
Volunteers -to repair homes, to spon­sor a Neighborhood Day which includes a cookout/picnic setting, and to assist people in finding a home. 
Contact: Greg Zusehlag -235-5547 
4) -NSHP (NEIGHBORHOOD STUDY HELP PROGRAM) 
Volunteers -to tutor at. a variety of centers twice a week for a one hour period each time. 
Contaet: Randolph Sehmidt -634-0802 
46-NISDC (NORTHERN INDIANA STATE DEVELOPMENTAL CENTER) 
Volunteers -to work on a one-to-one basis with children from three to 19 on a variety of aetivities. 
Agency Phone: 234-2101 
47-NORTHERN IRELAND AWARENESS GROUP 
Volunteers -to assist with activities which encourage a peaceful resolution to the conflict in Northern Ireland and address current injustices. 
48-ODN (OVERSFAS DEVELOPMENT NETWORK) 
Voluntncrs -to raise the awareness of the Notre Dame community about issues that people around the world face on a daily basis, such as hunger and limited technology and health care. 
49-PARKVIEW JUVENILE CENTER 
Volunteers -to tutor, for recreational aetivities, mentoring and assistance with social skills: · 
Agency Phone: 277-3070 50-PAX CHRISTI 
Volunteers -to meet weekly to build community, to discuss issues of peace and justice, to engage in regular service work in the South Bend community. ND is a chapter of the international Catholic peace movement, Pax Christi. 
Contact: Dan Druckenbrod-634-1217 
51-PORTAGE MANOR 
Volunteers -to pay regular visits to individual residents who have no family. Agency Phone: 272-9100 
52 -RECYCLIN' IRISH 
Volunteers -to organize throughout the dorms and facilities on campus the various efforts to recycle which include newspaper, glass, aluminum and now paper, plastic, and polyurethane. 
Contact: Karen Cardinal -634-1283 
Kevin McAllister -634-1689 
53 -RIGHT TO LIFE 
Volunteers -to focus on the national abortion issue. Activities include weekly picketing at the Women's Pavilion, dorm forums, trips to Washington, D.C., and a Right-to-Life week during the year. 
Contact: Maureen Kramlich ­
634-2663 
Jim Schmiedeler -634-2077 
54 -ST. HEDWIG'S OUTREACH CENTER 
Volunteers -to help with tutoring and to provide stable role models for chil­dren who eome from families that are in crisis. It involves one or two afternoons per week from 4:30-6:00 p.m. 
Agency Phone: 287-0845 


Community Service jir Commissioners 1995-96 

Alumni Gregg Tatarka 161 1058 Badin Sarah Pettrone 409 2732 Breen-Phillips Allison McEiendy 205 1260 
. 
Susan McGovern 245 1295 Carroll Morriss Karam 422 4280 Cavanaugh Tyra Graves 413 3126 Andrea Jordan 424 1548 Dillon Tim Feyma 106 4781 Farley Kathleen Dolan 351 3958 Fisher Dave Dougherty 001 1873 Flanner Matt Persohn 1118 1213 Grace Mike Thompson 725 4245 Howard Heather Banks 316 2541 Christine Curtis 225 2547 Keenan Ted Caron 429 3383 Knott Mary Anne Boley 345 4984 Molly McCoy 229 4935 Lewis Clare Ribando 208 4143 Lyons Janet Paskvan 325 1915 Morrissey Brandon Zabukovic 203 0870 Pangborn Ann Anderson 218 2368 Pasquerilla East Katie DeCoursey 729 4514 Pasquerllla West Joan Bannon 435 3484 Rachel Bradford 431 0762 St. Edward's Colin Huie 408 1567 Siegfried Carrie Christianson 434 4900 Susan Christie 214 4810 Mary Plumb 313 4864 Stacie. Jonas 234 4825 
Sorln Hall Greg Ginocchio 308 3450 Stanford Dennis Deters 145 2094 Walsh Christine Tomaras 410 2622 Zahm Juan Robalino 331 0919 
.>{} .;;;;q~fWi 
55-ST. MARGARET'S HOUSE 
Volunteers -to help with children, answer the phone and serve as hostess for guests. Volunteers also help with lit­eracy work, cooking, aerobics, spiritual groups and other activities that would be useful to the guests. The House is open to adult women and girls and boys under twelve. · 
Contact: Kathy Schnieder 234-7795 
56-ST. VINCENT DE PAUL 
Volunteers-to work in the thrift store to prepare used goods for sale. Anyone organizing a food or clothing drive can work through this grassroots organiza­tion. 
Agency Phone: 234-6211 
57-SALVATION ARMY 
Volunteers -provide food for Thanksgiving, Christmas and Easter baskets for families in South Bend. Student volunteers can "adopt" a South Bend family through the Salvation Army. 
Agency Phone: 233-9471 
58 -SFA (STUDENTS FOR ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION) 
Volunteers -to promote awareness of environmental issues amongst the stu­dent body and the South Bend communi­ty. We cooperate with the Notre Dame Environmental Task Force and environ­mental groups in South Bend to create environmentally sound policies on cam­pus and off. 
Contact: Allison Potempa-634-2961 
59 -SEX OFFENSE SERVICES (SOS) 
Volunteers -to assist with program at Madison Center for victims of sexual assault and their families. 
Contact: Laurel Eslinger-234-0061 
X 1308 
60-SOUTH BEND COMMUNITY SCHOOLS ADULT EDUCATION 
Volunteers -to work individually with adult students who are studying for their GED or simply learning literacy skills. 
Contact: Gayle Silver-282-2130 
61 -STEP (STUDENT TUTORIAL EDUCATION PROGRAM) 
Volunteers -to visit the South Bend Juvenile Facility one night a week and to spend an hour with a resident complet­ing work or talking about constructive topics. The residents are also given a Christmas Party and a Picnic in the Spring which is provided by STEP and the Facility . 
Contact: Laurie Wincko -634-4076 

.... 
62-STUDENTS FOR SOCIAL AWARENESS 
Members who arc interested in devel­oping a network of support for under­represented and marginalized groups in the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's communi­ty. Membership is extended to all mem­bers of the ND/SMC communities. 
Contact: Gina Rucavado-634-4815 
63 -SUPERSIBS Volunteers -work with children who have siblings with disabilities. 
Contact: Amy Dobbelaere -634-1349 
Elizabth McAvoy.-634-2367 
Stephen Dirnberger -634-3299 

64-WOMEN'S CARE CENTER 
Volunteers -needed to assist in wel­coming pregnant women and couples and beginning the process of assisting them to gather the resources that they need to complete the pregnancy. 
Agency Phone: 234-0363 
65-WOMEN UNITED FOR JUSTICE AND PFACE 
Volunteers -join together to educate themselves and others in order to grow in the power of their common sister­hood, to lead themselves to an under­standing of their responsibilities in the ­world today, and to the action they must take accordingly. The group seeks to spiritually nourish their peacemaking through fellowship in the manifestly Christian community of Notre Dame/Saint Mary's. 
Contact: Kathleen Maas Weigert ­
631-5293 

66-WORLD HUNGER COALITION 
Volunteers-raise awareness and sup­port for the poor and hungry in the South Bend community and around the world. Volunteers aim to grow spiritual­ly and mentally in their efforts to allevi­ate hunger, and to have fun doing it. 
Contact: Amy Carroll -634-2992 
Trang Bui -634-4978 

67-YOUTH SERVICES BURFAU (SAFE STATION) 
Volunteers -to assist in a temporary shelter care facility working with youths in crisis. 
Contact: Mary Pozcik -284-9396 
68-Y.W.C.A. WOMEN'S SHELTER 
Volunteers -to listen, provide trans­portation, tutor, work with children and to perform other important services. 
Agency Phone: 232-9558 
-
page4 CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS The Observer/Paid Advertisement 
ACADEMIC COURSES/EXPERIENTIAL SEMINARS 
All courses and the experiential and service learning seminars listed on this page are devel­oped and coordinated by Center faculty and staff. They are offered through these academic departments: Theology, American Studies, Gender Studies. Peace Studies, Psychology and 
Sociology. Information meetings for the courses will be announced. details.  Contact the Center for more  
THE CHURCH AND SOCIAL ACTION (THE(URBAN PLUNGE)  O 365)  

The Plunge is a 48-hour immersion into the kind of life most Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents seldom see. Over 355 students made an Urban Plunge during early January 1995. 
The purpose of the Plunge is to experience injustice, apathy and poverty; to increase awareness of people who are working to improve these situations; and to witness and reflect on ways to address Gospel concerns regarding the oppressed. (1 credit) 
APPALACHIA SEMINAR (THEO 361) 
Each Fall and Spring break approximately 100 students travel to the Appalachia region of Kentucky and West Virginia. Students spend the week working side by side with the people of the mountains. Through physical labor and person-to-person contacts, students experience the cultural richness of the area and begin to understand and analyze the social forces that influence the lives of the mountain people. (1 credit) 
WASHINGTON SEMINAR (THEO 363, GOVf 496) 
Approximately 22 students travel each semester break to the nation's capital to explore crucial issues of the day from a variety of perspectives. In Washington, they meet with the decision-mak­ers, members of congress, ambassadors and church leaders. On-campus preparation, on-site experience and follow-up reflection combine to create a unique learning opportunity. (1 credit, Theo. or Govt.) 
CULTURAL DIVERSITY SEMINAR (THEO 362, SOC 362) 
This seminar explores the rich cultural heritage of Chicago's ethnic neighborhoods and immi­grant tradition. The corresponding problems of urban life and racism also are examined during the semester break experience. (1 credit , Theo. or Soc.) 
NEW WOMEN/NEW CHURCH (THEO 364, GSC 364) 
This seminar is designed to acquaint students (during a week of involvement in Chicago) with the challenges of women in society and the church. This seminar studies gender issues and com­mitment to community and service. (1 credit, Theo. or Gender Studies) 
LEADERSHIP ISSUES SEMINAR (THEO 369) 
The Leadership Issues Seminar is designed for students working in a leadership capacity pro­moting community service or social action. (1 credit) 
MIGRANT EXPERIENCES SEMINAR (THEO) 
Offers a unique immersion into the lives of migrant farm workers in Florida during the spring harvest. Students work in the fields, live with migrant families, and assist agencies that serve workers. (1 credit, Spring semester) 
MEXICO SEMINAR (THEO 366) 
Provides an international service opportunity through a two week immersion {during the last two weeks of May) in Oaxaca, Mexico. (1 credit; applications available in Fall) 
ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES SEMINAR (THEO) 
Provides opportunities for students to challenge and deepen their understanding of environ­mental issues through direct experiential involvements. (1 credit, Spring semester) 
OTHER SEMINARS include East Africa and Holy Cross Seminar. (1 credit each) 
REFLECTIONS ON SERVICE (THEO 360) (SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS) 
The Summer Service Projects are eight week sessions of community service facilitated by Alumni Clubs all over the country. During the summer of 1995, 168 Notre Dame students took part in this experience. A tuition scholarship is awarded to each participating student. The scholarships are provided by Notre Dame Alumni Clubs and the James F. Andrews Endowment. Every project is different: students work in shelters for the homeless, soup kitchens, homes for abused children, spouse abuse shelters, Headstart programs, camps for inner city children, etc. {3 credits) 
THREE CREDIT COURSES BY CSC FACULTY 
In addition to the many seminars graded {S/U), there are multidisciplinary courses by CSC fac­ulty in various departments: 
Reading and reflection on issues raised by service experiences. Courses include: Don McNeill, C.S.C., Ph.D. and Staff-Theology and Community Service (THEO 273) Theology and Social Ministry (THEO 274) 
Study and analysis of contemporary issues of justice and peace. Courses include: Jay Brandenberger, Ph.D. -Children and Poverty: Developmental Implications (PSY 405) Kathleen Maas Weigert, Ph.D. -Introduction to Peace Studies (liPS 320) 
Power and Change in America (AMST 422, liPS 425) 
PEACE AND JUSTICE PROGRAMMING 
The Center sponsors or co-sponsors a variety of creative peace and justice programs through­out the year, including films, panels, invited speakers and performing arts. Each opportunity focuses on an important issue of social concern (e.g., racism, poverty, the environment). 
POST-GRADUATE SERVICE OPPORTUNITIES 
Workshops, seminars and other meetings enable seniors to consider the integration of service into their chosen careers and/or the advantages of a year or two of volunteer service, e.g., Peace Corps, Holy Cross Associates. Contact Maureen Skurski (631-5293). 
ADDITIONAL EXPERIENTIAL LEARNING OPPORTUNITIES 
.. .include, as resources allow, service-learning trips ,to the L'Arche Daybreak Community in Toronto, to the rural south, and to Holy Cross Mission sites in the U.S., Mexico, and Africa. Student leadership plays a key role in developing unique learning opportunities. 


CSC STAFF 1st Row: Robert Dowd, C.S.C., liaison of Campus Ministry with Center for Social Concerns; Carol Porter, Secretary; Kathy Royer, Coordinator: Service/Social Action Groups; Patty Flynn, Secretary­Receptionist; Sue Cunningham, Coordinator: Urban Plunge and Summer Service Projects; 2nd Row: Margaret Davis, Administrative Assistant; Ardis King, Secretary; Maureen Skurski, Coordinator: Post­Graduate Service Opportunities and Program Initiatives; Kathleen Maas Weigert, Faculty Liaison/Academic Coordinator; Jay Brandenberger, Coordinator: Experiential Seminars and Justice Education; 3rd Row: Jim Paladino, Associate Director; Don McNeill, C.S.C., Director. The work of the Center is also facilitated by student managers and student assistants, by resource persons, and volun­teers. 
CSC AND CAMPUS MINISTRY COLLABORATION 
The desire for a deeper inte­laboration. In moving towards gration of faith and action in this goal, Rev. Robert Dowd, the lives of Notre Dame stu­C.S.C., serves as Campus dents has led Campus Ministry Ministry's liaison with the and the Center for Social Center, and Jim Paladino as the Concerns to work towards a Center's liaison with Campus more creative and public col-Ministry. 
THE FACULTY AND CENTER ACTIVITIES 
The special focus of our opportunities designed for fac­ulty during the 1995-1996 aca­demic year will be on "service learning" and the ways in which it can be incorporated into courses and research. Through one-on-one consulta­tion, class visits, a fall "Service Learning Fair" and a May workshop, we hope to work with those faculty who want to link their teaching and/or research with community col­laborators. The "Faith and Professional Life" faculty series, co-sponsored with Campus Ministry, will continue this year; watch for speakers and dates. For the first time this year, faculty will have the opportunity to participate with students in the Social Concerns Seminar: Appalachia over fall and spring breaks. 
Faculty are a vital resource to the CSC as well. They serve as facilitators for the Urban Plunge, opening their homes for a one-evening gathering to provide students with an occa­sion to reflect on and extend their analysis of the Urban Plunge experience. They are speakers for our various cross­listed experiential learning courses, advisors to the service and social action groups, and offer directed readings on related social concerns topics. 
Faculty interested in getting involved in any of these oppor­tunities are encouraged to con­tact Dr. Kathleen Maas Weigert (phone: 631-5319 or e-mail: Kathleen.M.Weigert.2@nd.edu). 
Center facilities include ..• 
. a coffee house . a large multi-purpm1e room . seminar rooms . a resource room . a library and . a reflection room 
These facilities are available for use by student and com­munity groups. Contact the Center receptionist (631­5293) to reserve rooms for lectures, films, liturgies, meals, and other gatherings. 





