
'' '' ~ ~, ~.~ 
Friday, April 7, 1995• Vol. XXVI No. 118 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Young: Atlanta's diversity secured OlyDlpic future 
By ETHAN HAYWARD 
Assistanl News Edimr 

The diversity that Atlanta displays in its economic and social structures was the key factor in winning the privilege to host the 1996 Summer 
Olympics, accord­ing to Andrew Young, former mayor of Atlanta, ambassador to the United Nations, 
U.S. Congressman and current co­chair of the Atlanta 

C.r0mmittee for the Young Olympic Games. 
He remarked that numerous people have been a&king him if Atlanta will be ready for the Olympics when the events are scheduled to begin. He said the city will be structurally pre­pared, but is unsure whether it will be prepared to convey the spirit of the Games. 
Young noted that the turn of a cen­tury, much less that of a millennium, can often produce anxiety and uncer­tainty in people. He said these feel­ings were apparent in the designers of the tower that is to house the Olympic torch. To him, the design seemed to be "a cautious, cowardly retreat into the past", a phrase he also used to describe the Republican Party's "Contract with America." 
"People are looking to Atlanta for some clue, some vision about what humankind can and will do in the 
see YOUNG/ page 4 


Casey predicts Americans moving closer to pro-life 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
Associate News Edimr 
In a move that electrified an already excited audience, Robert Casey predicted that the majority of Americans are moving closer to a 
pro-life stance. 
"The pendulum is swinging in the opposite direction [away from the pro-choice position that has character­ized the U.S. dur­ing the last 20 

years)." Casey, Casey governor of Pennsylvania from 1987-95, said to a crowd that responded with a stand­ing ovation, one of many that he would receive throughout the evening. 
Casey, an adamantly pro-life Democrat who has formed an exploratory committee to assess the feasibility of a presidential campaign, displayed a fervent optimism that the pro-life movement is beginning to gain ground. 
"I believe a pro-life consensus ~xists in America," he said. "We are finally waking up as a people to the truth." 
Casey's possible run for the Democratic nomination will be diffi­cult because he is challenging a sit­ting president, but one difference that would separate his platform from Bill Clinton's agenda is the abortion debate. The Casey family members have historically been Democrats since they first arrived in the United States from Ireland in the 1850s, but the split between Casey and other party figures over abortion disturbs him. 
"The Democrats have been a party of optimistic people because they understand grief, a party of strength because they understand vulnerabili­ty," he said, "but it pains me to see that abortion has found a home in the national Democratic Party. 
"Abortion is inconsistent with our 
see CASEY/ page 4 



By DAVE RING 
Assistant News Edimr 
ich one of the following does 
belong: Ann Arbor,

Oxford, Chapel Hill, and South Bend? If comparing college town atmospheres, the clear outsider is South Bend. 
Michigan, Miami of 0:1io, and North Carolina students all have a "campus town" within walking distance of uni­versity buildings and student housing. These towns are traditionally full of student oriented bars, restaurants, and small shops. 
Since Notre Dame is a fairly isolated campus, South Bend has never played the role of a typical "college town." Yet a growing number of off-campus busi­nesses are doing what they can to offer more of what students at other schools enjoy: a viable social life beyond the immediate university limits. 
Cactus Jack's, Studebagels, and Lula's Cafe are working to change the off cam­pus possibilities for Notre Dame stu­dents. All three businesses have strong Notre Dame connections and all three share the same goal-to offer an 
see CAMPUS/ page 6 


Campus Security assures rape victim privacy 
Editor's Note: During Sexual Assault Awareness Week The Observer will examine various aspects of sexual assault on college campuses. This is the last in a four part series ad­dressing the problems and is­sp,es ofrape and sexual assault on campus. 
By LIZ FORAN Associate News Ediror 
While the horror of being sex­ually assaulted can be the most overwhelming and confusing time of any woman's life, fortu­nately the process of reporting it is not. 
According to Rex Rakow, di­rector of Notre Dame Security, few rapes are reported to Se­curity each year. "That doesn't mean that more didn't occur on campus," Rakow said, "these are just the numbers that are reported to Security." Sexual assaults that occur off-campus have to be reported to either the South Bend or St. Joeseph County Police, depending on where they happen. 
Security statistics on reported rapes on campus in the past few years are: 
1991-1 rape reported to Se­curity. 
1992-0 reported. 
1993-3 reported. 
1994-3 reported. 
to date 1995-2 reported. 
When Security does receive a report of a rape, "We try to dis­patch a female officer to meet with the victim, although this isn't always possible," Rakow said. However, all officers are trained to respond to situations involving sexual assault, he said. 
The officer will then talk with the victim about what needs to be done next. Rakow said that victims who have reported the rape soon after the incident are encouraged to go to the hospi­tal for a medical exam, which may obtain evidence that can be used against the attacker. The officer will then take the victim to the hospital and wait with her until the completion of 

IIXUAL ASIAU]f 


L:t~ 
the exam. Rakow said. 
"The officer will conduct a short interview the victim as soon as possible to determine whether or not she knew her attacker," he said. "If the at­tacker is unknown to the vic­tim, we want to get a descrip­tion and basic information out quickly in order to protect the community." The officer also asks for basic information about where and when the inci­dent took place, in order to secure the scene, he added. 
"The officer will also see if the victim would like to have her rector involved or a friend come to the hospital to be with her, and the officer will facili­tate that," he said. 
Rakow stressed that the 
name of the victim is not given out to anyone, and that she is informed of her choices regard­ing what recourse she can take against her attacker. Student Affairs is made aware that there has been a rape reported by a student, but Security does not give the victim's name. 

After the hospital exam, the victim is taken back to campus by the officer and the victim is interviewed by a Security inves­tigator if she so decides. 
"It's important to get all of the details down about the inci­dent as soon as possible so that they are not fogotten," Rakow said. 
"Security works a case all the way through from the first," he added. "We handle every case of rape as if the victim were go­ing to press criminal charges." 
What the victim does after the initial report is entirely up to her, Rakow stressed. "The initial officer will advise the vic­tim as to what options she has, such as continuing with the in­vestigation, going to the [St. Joseph] county police or taking it to Student Affairs." 
"At all times the decisions are the victim's," Rakow stressed. "We will advise her as to what her options are, but ultimately all decisions are the victim's decisions." 
If the victim does decide to continue with the investigation, she usually decides on one of three options available to her, according to Catherine Bridge, assistant director of Residence Life. 
"If she is interested in Uni­versity discipline procedures, then we can meet with her, anonymously if she wants, to explain her choices, " she said. 
These choices are either to do nothing at all, follow University procedures or press criminal charges against the attacker through the St. Joseph County Police. 
"We don't know how many victims decide not to report anything at all. Occasionally we will have someone come and 
see SERIES/ page 4 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, April?, 1995 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

It could 
happen to you 
One in six women will be raped during their col­lege career. I am sure you've heard it all before. You have seen the posters, heard the lec­tures, read the pamphlets. Sexual Assault Awareness Week is coming to a close 


today. You probably knew Angie Kelver about it, maybe you even Saint Mary's got one of those pink rib-Accent Editor 
bons in the dining hall. _ __:__:__:___ Honestly, did it really phase you? Did it merit a second glance or an extra minute of thought? Chances are, probably not. How do I know this, you say? Where do I get off being so high and mighty? Well, I'll tell you. I was you. Until this past year, I spent most of my life bee-bopping around, never having tragedy hit me close to home. I was a girl who would see the news, say, "my, how terrible," and run off to play. Then, I had the chance to become a part of Sex Offense Services. I am now a crisis interven­tion advocate. I'm "on call" six hours a week, fielding phone calls and making hospital vis­its whenever a sexual assault case is brought in. And, however Sally Struthers this might sound, it has changed my life. In working with SOS, I have seen incredible pain, trauma, and lives turned upside down. I have seen victims, ranging in age from eight months old to 72 years old. And they aren't all women. There is nothing sexy, seductive or sleazy about these people. They have been violated in an unimaginable way and are try­ing to deal with the face that all the control and self-esteem they possess has been stolen. My work with SOS usually involves the vic­tim, after the assault has occurred. Sexual assault is a problem that crosses gender, eth­nic and socioeconomic backgrounds. It can happen to anyone. At times, the enormity of the problem makes me angry and frustrated at the world. Why does this have to happen? In order to someday eliminate sexual assault completely, we must first examine the attitudes that we face every day. Stereotypes, you know them. They are nearly always harmful, and more often than not, untrue. These prejudgments are a huge contributing factor to attitudes about sexual assault. I have never walked into a party, seen a guy in short shorts and a tank top and whispered to my friend, "Wow, he's really asking for it." Unfair judgments only breed anger and hate. Another issue worth looking at is the peo­ple we admire, and the lifestyles that we lead. A convicted rapist is met with a pre­dawn pep rally upon exiting jail, only because he wore one of those big, clunky metal belts a few times. Joey Buttafuoco has starred in a music video and has a movie deal. And I tell you, if I were queen for a day, I would deposit Clarence Thomas, Tupac Shakur, Ted Kennedy, and Andrew Dice Clay on a remote island in the Bermuda Triangle and make them watch PBS all day long. We have the power to end these stereo­types, knock down undeserving people ofT their pedestals. To take this type of initiative, it is important to realize that it is our prob­lem. I think we all know it happens here. We've heard too many stories and seen too much injustice to let it continue. While you were reading this article, three human beings were raped. All I ask is for you to stop and think about it. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Viewpoint  
Kristi Kolski  Bridger Green  
Mark Huffman  Vicky Pratte  
Sports  Production  
Tom Schlidr  Belle Bautista  
Man Casey  David Diaz  
Graphics  Lab Tech  
Roben Bollman  Dane Kramer  
Tom Roland  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacarion periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WORLO AT A GLANCE 
Senators reach deal on spending cuts 
WASHINGTON The White House and Democrats 
Eager to declare victory and begin vehemently opposed the amendment, r!&§peij~ing cu their Easter recess, Senate leaders which they said would have imperiled struck a compromise late Thursday the Mexican economy and markets ~ompromise on a stalled $16 billion package of the world over. D'Amato had said the A compromise plan drafted by cuts in social programs. bailout was wasting taxpayers' Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole 
and Minority Leader Tom Daschle 
The deal, consummated by Majority money, but he dropped his effort to 
drew objections Thursday from
Leader Bob Dole, R-Kan., and let the spending-cuts package go 
Democrats. What would gain, 

Minority Leader Tom Daschle, D-S.D., through. what would lose: and backed by the Clinton adminis­"It's an agreement we all can sup­tration, was expected to lead to final port," Daschle said. 
Funds restored: 

passage of the measure late in the The measure, which the Senate • $220 million for housingevening. It was similar to a tentative began debating March 29, is a top modernization agreement the two men had reached priority for Dole and other GOP sena­• $105 million for President 
Clinton's national service

Wednesday night, only to see it tors eager to prove they are as zeal­
program

rejected by Democrats. ous about deficit reduction as their 
• $100 million for drug

Under the deal, $835 million would faster-moving House brethren. The prevention in schools be restored to programs for children, House already has approved a bill • $35 million for nutrition housing and jobs that Republicans slashing $17 billion from home-heat­nrn·~""fi"" for women and wanted to cut. In addition, more than ing aid, education, public broadcast­$1.6 billion would be trimmed from ing and other programs. airport improvements, rental assis­As the two sides negotiated, even tance, federal administrative and Daschle conceded that Dole eventual­travel costs and other programs. ly would get the votes needed to pass Overall, the changes boost the mea­the spending-cuts bill. He said million for rent 
subsidies

sure's deficit reduction by $812 mil­Democrats might as well accept a 
• $225 million for

lion to about $16 billion. toned-down measure that protects 
government

In addition, Sen. Alfonse D'Amato, some programs from GOP-sought administrative and travel R-N.Y., agreed to drop an amend­cuts, and share credit with .. expenses ment he offered that would have Republicans for the bill's deficit ~:: • $25 million for public 
t; broadcasting

halted the $20 billion rescue of the reduction and $6.7 billion disaster failing Mexican peso. assistance to states. 

Gore lauds environmental progress Warm winter brings pollen early 
WASHINGTON WASHINGTON 
The global community must reduce 
Allergy sufferers, blame your sneezes, sniffies and wa­the emission of gases that increase car­tery, itchy eyes on the second-warmest winter in the past bon dioxide in the atmosphere or risk a 100 years: It's caused trees to start pollinating earlier new ice age, Vice President AI Gore than usual. Pollen counts usually begin to build about said Thursday. Gore, addressing a envi­this time, but high counts are being recorded nationwide ronmental conference held in an­due to the mild winter, said Sarah Kaluzny-Petroff of the ticipation of the 25th celebration of American Academy of Allergy Asthma and Immunology Earth Day, said great strides had been in Milwaukee. "It's kind of everywhere," she said. "Mild made over the past two decades to pre­winter, with the real nice pop of weather that we had, re­serve the Earth's ecosystem, but much remains to be ally just jump-started all the trees." Last winter tied for done. "We can look back on these 25 years not only as a second-warmest in a century of record-keeping with an success, but also as a model that ought to be applied to average temperature of 36 degrees across the continen­our future efforts," Gore said. "Even as we celebrate ... tal United States, according to the National Climatic Data we have to be painfully aware of how much needs to be Center. The allergy academy has about 70 stations across done." While Gore conceded that scientific research on the country that count pollen, and only six cities had low the problem is incomplete, he said it suggested reason readings for tree pollen last week, Kaluzny-Petroff said. for concern. 
Federal anti-drug money misused Tiny springs in wings make flies fly 
WASHINGTON In Michigan, federal anti-drug money paid for giant Flies are the F-16s of insects thanks to tiny elastic toothbrushes in a health class. In Washington, it went for springs that turn their wings into efficient motors that re­
a basketball team's party. In a St. Louis suburb, it helped cycle energy. That's the finding of University of Chicago pay for a high school security guard. In the last eight biologist Michael Dickinson, who tethered tiny fruit flies years, critics contend, taxpayer money designed to warn to figure out how flies fly. Flight requires up to 100 times schoolchildren away from drugs and alcohol has been di­the energy consumption of an animal at rest, as insects 
verted to a slew of inappropriate and wasteful things. "It sometimes beat their wings 1,000 times a second. In WASHINGTON 
was a slush fund," says Bob Peterson, who heads Michi­comparison, athletes running the 100-yard dash use only gan's Office of Drug Control Policy. Even many anti-drug 15 times the energy of a person at rest. Scientists have activists and grassroots supporters agree: A program be­long wondered how insects keep up that frenzy of 
gun with high hopes in the Nancy Reagan era, and re­motion. They efficiently capture and reuse kinetic ener­cently praised by Pres. Clinton as crucial for children, gy, Dickinson wrote Friday in the journal Science. "They was riddled with waste from the start. As they fight in are high-performance machines capable of spectacular Congress to save its $482 million budget, supporters also aerial maneuvers," he reported. "Our findings suggest point to a recent study indicating drug use among young that insects in general must be using elastic storage as a 
people is again on the rise. "We need to make sure that means of minimizing energetic flight costs." He tethered the very precious money that we have is used for the cor­fruit flies inside a virtual reality flight simulator and rect purposes," said Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, R-Fla. tracked their wing-beats and energy consumption. 
• INDIANA WEATHER 

Friday, April 7 Accu-Weather'"forecast for daytime conditions and The Accu-Weather<~~> forecast for noon, Friday, April 7. 
Unes separate high temperature zones for the day. 
OHIO 
llndianapoli~ 64° l 
• 


FRONTS: 
~ ..........._ ......-..­


COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1995Accu-Weather, Inc. Pressure 
H L B ISSJ [Til 0 . fZ] @ 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
VlaAssocialfKJPres. 

~ 
Atlanta 81 54 Dallas 86 62 New Orleans 80 58 Baltimore 67 41 Denver 67 39 New York 59 36 Boston 47 35 Los Angeles 70 55 Philadelphia 62 42 Chicago 58 42 Miami 82 67 Phoenix 88 62 Columbus 65 45 Minneapolis 49 32 St. LOUIS 73 56 


Friday, April?, 1995 
Maya Angelou speaks to eagerly awaiting students 
By PEGGY LENCZEWSKI 
Saint Mary's News Ediwr 
The Saint Mary's and Notre Dame communities will have the opportunity to attend the anticipated Maya Angelou lec­ture Saturday evening at 
7:30 p.m. Many stu­dents, faculty, and adminis­trators were disappointed that Angelou was forced to 
Angeloucancel her earlier per­formance, so this upcoming lec­ture carries even higher ex­pectations. 
English professor and poet Max Westler calls Angelou, "a national poet. In today's soci­ety, poets are encouraged to be insular and self-probing, and there's nothing wrong with that," but Angelou breaks that mold. 
"I love hearing her read, be­cause there is such a sense of the public in her reading. She atidresses public and national issues as opposed to personal issues. She's really the only na­tional poet we have," Westler stated. 
Ann Loux, another English professor, has taught Angelou's autobiography, I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings in class and calls her work very topical. 
"I saw Maya Angelou read with my son," Loux saud, "and it was absolutely marvelous. It bridged the gap between teacher and student, mother 


IE.\travelmore 
\8/Carlson Je.vel N ~t~ork 
Europe!! 
Travelmore/Carlson Travel Network is your local Europe Travel Specialist 
Let us send you to Europe! 
*Airfares  Special STUDENT & FACULTY rates.  
Low airfares to Europe.  
*Rail Passes  Rail Passes issued in our office!  
No service fee!  
Timetables, prict's, tickets avaii..Jl>le!  
•car Rentals  Discounted car rentals!  
Available in all European Countries!  
•Experience  Over 20 years experience working with  
Notre Dame &Saint Mary's students  
and faculty travelling to Europe.  

We know Europe-let us plan your trip! 1723 South Bend Ave. -Next to the Notre Dame campus ­(219) 271-4880 
and son, and old and young." 
Since much of Angelou's work also deals with racial relationships. the Office of Multi-Cultural Affairs has asked Angelou to speak in con­junction with Diversity Week and the Sesquicentennial Celebration. According to Maricela Ramirez, director of the Office of Multi-Cultural Affairs, "We wanted to give a gift to the community in honor of the Sesquicentennial. 
"Maya Angelou was definitely my first choice. She is a woman who overcame many difficul­ties. She is an excellent role model for youth and a very tal­ented writer. She is an excel­lent person to help us celebrate diversity. She's very inspira­tional," said Ramirez. 
According to Director of Spe­cial events Dennis Andres, "Most of the time. it costs be­tween twelve and twenty dol­lars to hear Maya Angelou speak," but the tickets are free, so this lecture truly is the Multi-Cultural Affairs Office's gift to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students and faculty. 
The lecture will be held in the Angela Athletic Facility at St. Mary's, instead of its original location, O'Laughlin audito­rium. According to Andres, "We moved to Angela to in­crease the number of students and faculty who could see the presentation. There were enough tickets distributed to easily accommodate all Saint Mary's students and faculty and still have enough tickets to give to Notre Dame and the community." 
The Observer • NEWS page 3 
Brian Hardy/ The Observer 
Make your point 

Grace senior Mike Molnar argues for the affirmative on the topic "The Roman Catholic Church should allo~ priests to.marry" in the quarterfinal match of t~e Iceberg Debates. Grace (5) defeated Sorin (4) with the Judges castmg 2 ballots for Grace and 1 for Sonn. More complete coverage in Monday's paper. · 
SARG aids alumni, student relations 
By DAVE TYLER 
News Editor 
When most Notre Dame stu­dents think of alumni relations, they think of laughing at the guys in the funny pants on home football weekends. But there's a group on campus that works on changing those per­ceptions, and this weekend they will be showing off, as they host their peers from around the midwest. 
The Notre Dame Student Alumni Relations Group (SARG) will be entertaining 450 stu­dents from over 50 different midwestern colleges and uni­versities this Friday. Saturday. and Sunday, at the Student 



/?-\1,i,eh,t~t.~~£XP-~~ 
6239 University Commons Drive South Bend, Indiana 46635 
(219) 272-6702 Chinese, Vietnamese, & American Food Lunch 11:00 a.m.-3:00p.m. Dinner menu will be served after 3:00p.m. 15 Years of Service Award The Chamber Of Commerce St. Joseph County 
"Enjoy a unique experience in Oriental Dining" 
• 
Fresh Ingredients 


• 
Lunch Specials starting at $3.50 


@!(NTAL UPIIU I 

include: egg roll, soup and tea 
.J.l,. 
• 
Dinners starting at $5 

• 
Private Dining Booths 


•Custom 
cooking with no MSG 

• 
Vegetarian Menu 

• 
15 Years of Service Award 



Ftaay II All-10 Pll For Reservations &Carry Out Call: SaiiMday4PU.tOPII 
272-6702 
For Dine-In Delivery Call: 
272-2328 

Alumni Association/Student Alumni Foundation (SAA/SAF) District Five conference. SANSAF is a national organiza­tion dedicated to improving communication and interaction between alumni and the stu­dents at their alma mater. 1995 is Notre Dame's year to host the event. 
This weekend's conference, titled "The Stars of Tomorrow Shine Brightly Today" will bring students from the states of Ohio, Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, and Wisconsin to present seminars on each school's specialty program in alumni relations, according to junior Matt Welsch, acting pres­ident of SARG. The Notre Dame contingent will be giving pre­sentations on methods of in­creasing membership and on SARG's Extern Program, which unites alumni and students in a business setting. The Extern program gives students valu­able real-world experience and keeps alumni in touch with the pulse of the campus, said Welsch. Welsch also noted that the program is a great way to help younger students learn about potential career choices. 
SARG has also planned a busy entertainment schedule for its guests, who will be staying at the South Bend Marriott. Fri­day night, a welcoming party in DeBartolo will kick off the weekend. It will feature per­formances from the Notre Dame Porn Pon Squad and the comedic stylings of Owen Smith. 
After a day of presentations on Saturday. the conference will adjourn to South Bend's Century Center for a banquet and dance. The featured speaker at the banquet will be former Notre Dame All Ameri­can and current Chicago Bear football player Chris Zorich. Music at the dance will be pro­vided by the campus band Shady Elaine. 
Welsch said he has high hopes for this weekend's events. " I think this will be a valuable learning experience and fun at the same time," he said. 
COURSES ADDED ARCH 563 01 114427 . Teaching Concepts/Bldg. Tech ..3 cr. hrs.; Michael Lykoudis; TH 02:45·04:30 EE 468L 02 114415 ·Modem Phontonics Lab.; 0.0 cr. hrs.; F 01 :00·03:30; EE 468 Coreq 
EE 499R 24 #4416 . Undergraduate Research; var. cr. hrs.; Gregory Snider EE 699R 25 #4417 . Research & Dissertation; var. cr. hrs.; Gregory Snider ENGL 699 39 114426 ·Research & Dissertation: var. cr. hrs.; James Robinson GOVT 499R 02 114421 ·Senior Honors Thesis; var. cr. hrs.: Scott Mainwaring; Perm. Required GOVT 499R 03 114420 • Senior Honors Thesis; var. cr. hrs.; Edward Goerner; Perm. Required 
GOVT 499R 04 114419 ·Senior Honors Thesis: var. cr. hrs.; Donald Kommers; Permission Required GOVT 499R 05 114429 · Semor Honors Thesis; var. cr. hrs: A. James McAdams: Penmssion Required MGT 350 02 114428 . File Processmg Languages; 3 cr. hrs.: Khalil Malia: 
MW 02:20-03:35 Management Majors or Math Seniors only Pill!. 201 16 114418 .Introduction to Philosophy; 3 cr. hrs.: TH 02:45-04:00 STY 446 01 114414 ·Theology and Medicine; MW II: 15·12:30; Perm. Required 
CrosslistTHEO 446·01 THEO 565 01 114422 ·Liturgical Theology; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 02:45-04:00 THEO 601 01 114430 · CJA Seminar; var. cr. hrs.: W 02:45·05:15 TIIEO 610A 01 114423 ·Advanced Greek; 3 cr. hrs.; MW 11:15·12:30 
COURSES CANCELLED 
ARST 309S 01 #3515 EE 498F 0 I 112893 



DART
ENGL 696 0 I 114369 LAW 592A 01 110197 
CHANGES 

AME 561 01 110372 -Changetimeto: MWFII:I5-12:05 ARST 325S 01 112935 ·Change meeting days/time to: MW 09:00-12:00 ARST 4255 01 112934 -Change meeting days/time to: MW 09:00-12:00 ARST 525S 0 I #2936 ·Change meeting days/time to: MW 09:00·12:00 BIOS 250 01 #2849 ·Add Junior Bios/Bio-chemistry majors to the restrictions 
CE 445 01 111020 ·Change time to: TH 09:30·10:45 
CHEM 247 01 111068 ·Remove"BIOS 155or201 pre/corequisite" 
COTH 221 01 #1097 -Change to: "Permission Required" 
COTH 361 01 111099 · App deadline extended to 4-20; Change to:"Perm Required" 
COTH 421 0 I #2356 ·Change to: "Permission Required" EE 468 0 I 113418 ·Add corequisite: "EE 468L corequisite" EE 468L 01 113419 ·Change day/time to:W 01:00-03:30: add coreq "EE 468 coreq" 
GOVT 141 01 #0449 ·Change time to: MWF 10:10.11:00 HESB 450 01 #0558 ·Change day/time to: TH 11:00·12:15 LAW 506 0 I 111382 ·Change day/time to: MW 0 I :00-02: 15 LAW 569 0 I II 1395 ·Remove Permission Required LAW 642 0 I 112284 ·Add LAW 505 and 506 as a prerequisite LAW 679 0 I #3046 · Remove Permission Required LAW 683 0 l #2281 · Add LAW 603 as a prerequisite LAW 686 0 I 114103 ·Change day/time to: H 02:00·03:40 LAW 695 all sections · Add LAW 604 as a prerequisite ME 339 OJ 111531 -Change time to: MWF 11:15·12:05 MGT 350 01 #1550 ·Change day/time to: MW 12:50-02:05; add Math Seniors as a restriction SOC 242 01/02 #3081/3083 Add restriction: "Sophomores only" THEO 290B 01 #3977 ·Change restriction to: "THEO 100, 200 or 201" prerequisite THEO 290C 01 113978 -Change restriction to: "THEO 100.200 or 201" prerequisite 
~------------------------------------.­
. I 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Friday, April 7, 1995 
Young 
continued from page 1 

21st century," said Young. "It is unlikely that we will have a vision like that to offer the world by July of 1996." 
Young asserted that the "Contract with America" lacks such a vision as welL He said the Republicans won't face the future, but "know where they're going back to." He called the recent Congressional election a "referendum on the future." 
·According to Young, the di­verse composition of Atlanta's Olympic Committee was in­strumental in landing the Games. Atlanta has "males and females, blacks and whites, Catholics and Protestants... what the world is." 
Young also pointed out the ethnic diversity of Atlanta's economy, which he said repre­sents an emerging global econ­omy. This diversity attracted the delegates of the Interna­tional Olympic Committee, who were pleased to find citizens who had so much in common with themselves, yet lived in community with people of all different races. 
Atlanta's ability to grow from a segregated city to one of com­munity and cooperation between races also impressed the delegates, said Young. "This sends a message to the world that it makes no sense for different groups to fight among one another. We (the U.S.} exported freedom without an understanding of the re­sponsibility that comes with it. There has to be an allowance for diversity." 
In introducing Young, Vice President of Student Affairs Pa­tricia O'Hara cited how the mi­

We're 
At 
We care. From the day you 
move in, our friendly, profes­
sional staff will give you great 

service. Great location, great 
service, great price ...Hickory 
Village has what you need. 
Come by and see for yourself! 
Efficiencies from $290 1-Bedrooms from $305 2-Bedrooms from $375 

24-hour Emergency Maintenance Service Attentive Staff • Cable TV Available Free Aerobics Classes Laundry Room in Every Building Acres of Rolling Lawns and Trees Pool, Sundeck &Clubhouse Close to Great Shopping Air Conditioning 
I-t-CLEVELAND 
Call or stop by today and v.e'll show you how great living at Hickory Village can be. 
272-1880 

+llCKORlJ 

DlLLA~Ef» 
Mon.-Fri. 8-6, Sat. 104 & Sun. 12-4 
/
-~ 

nority portion of the Notre Dame student body has grown nearly 10 per cent since the last time he visited in 1988. O'Hara said Young was chosen to address the campus because he "represents the best spirit of diversity" and because he is a leader who "knows the way, shows the way, and goes the way". 
Young began his address by stating that he is "a fan of the Notre Dame lifestyle," with re­spect to the University's ability to integrate religion into nearly all aspects of life. 
Young cited Atlanta's now­famous "fairness formula," which was implemented in the design and construction of the city's mass-transit system in the 1960's. This practice en­tailed the hiring a certain per­centage of minorities in con­tracting and managerial ca­pacities and was later adopted by other areas as affirmative action. 
Young noted, however, that urban leaders are still afraid to project a vision of everyone working and living together successfully. "We're still not ready to admit that God's funny children have got to find a way to co-exist. We have not yet de­fined a concept of tolerance to include all of Atlanta, but we're getting there." 


Casey 
continued from page 1 

national character," he contin­ued. "It tears at our soul. Other countries accept it, but they are not America. We have a calling to love and protect all people equally." 
According to Casey, the Dec­laration of Independence im­plies that Americans have an obligation to defend the inalienable rights of unborn children, and the Constitution is the document that should enforce that obligation. 
"The Constitution must al­ways be read in reference to the Declaration of Indepen­dence," Casey said. "The Dec­laration of Independence points the way to a common destina­tion, which ensures that no one shall be left behind." 
Casey's pro-life position has antagonized a number of key Democrats, so much so to the point that he was forbidden to speak at the 1992 Democratic National Convention. 
But as he explores the possi­bility of running for the White House, he recognizes that he will need the support of the top party officials. Nonetheless, Casey remains optimistic that he can repair the bridges be­
tween himself and them that were damaged three years ago. 
"Politicians are easily swayed by public opinion, and when they see that the pro-life move­ment is growing, I think they'll change," Casey said. "Many politicians are not sincerely pro-choice to begin with." 
Casey's exploratory commit­tee is expected to come to a de­cision by the end of the month. Because of restrictions due to federal election laws, Casey was unable to answer any questions regarding his possi­ble campaign. 
Political analysts have won­dered for years whether Casey would ever jump to the Repub­lican side, the traditionally pro­life party, but Casey, a staunch Democrat, has never consid­ered the possibility. Still, he would like to see the GOP con­tinue its pro-life leaning. 
"I have made it a goal in life never to give advice to another party," Casey said, "but [the Republicans] would make a ter­rible mistake if they did not remain committed to pro-life." 
Above all, Casey would like to end abortions, regardless of party politics. 
"Wouldn't it be better to have 
1.6 million adoptions than 1.6 million abortions in this coun­try?" he asked. 
•

ag1c o~ 




aWtNDeaO~EN~Ali 
Our Menu Includes: mall ~-.I rl _., . . R..k . •;,.,· _. •••••••••.• -.....•••••..••••••.•••••••.••..•••••.•••• -~95 ........r:J" 
UWf~ \...hrc:wen, a-or onr1mp 

<f ~d.~; ;.;k·; Sh~i;,;, ........ -............. ,.......... -...................3so ..... -. .tYs 
~giRoll (1) ........................................................................ -.95¢ r Rangoon (2) ... , ............................................... , ..................125 Hot & ~keSoup ........... ,.................................. _............... , .......75¢ 
c n .............................................................37s ........595 Sweet & Sour Chicken ................................................. , . . . . 315 595 Kung Pao Chicken ......................................................... :315 : : : : : : : :595 
shrtpll:np ...........................................................475 ........675 ......... ' ....................................................475 ...... ' .675 
s-re~····:······:·:······:········:········:··········:·······:••! ·······~ 
(1£~)~,,~60~·1 
_____ . __ WED., APRIL 5 
:·.:·~1:-~~fffihJX:~'=·· ·:.:,~-'4f~-:il'· 
-·----• -p.m. ASouth ~e"O'd resldem . cited for speeding on "'/!' I:'' t:lnlrt11A<'l<_ Road. · 

HELP WORLD HUNGER COALITION WITH 
EASTER FOOD BASKETS! 
MONDAY, APRIL 10 AT STEPAN CENTER 
2:00-4:00 PM ASSEMBLE 4:00-7:00 PM DISTRIBUTE 
r 
-i;;;a-:;:::ar::r , 
I get a second/or I 



:$3°0 OFFt:
I •I 
I Expires Apri/30', 11}95 I 



______ ...
limit one CfJU!X'I'I P" p?rSOO 7 I
L 
rii20FF!l 
I I 
IAnyMea/1
I I 



______ -~...
I 
limit&piresAprJ30',1995 one CfJU!X'I'I P" p?rSOO ~ IL 


f t I I I I
. 
Friday, April 7, 1995 
The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Challenge 2000 examines 
Keenan named Hall of the Year 

alcohol-, drug-related issues 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE 
Assistam News Editor 
Focusing on building a new prevention ethic, Challenge 2000, a national conference on alcohol and other drug issues in higher education, will be held at Notre Dame this week­end. 
Committed to encouraging "personal, community, and en­vironmental accountability nurtured by compassion and service to others," the confer­ence is packed with speakers who will examine a number of alcohol-and drug-related is­sues. 
The conference plans to stim­ijlate discussions of the "shared educational responsibility to cultivate and provide value­forming learning experiences." Challenge 2000 aims to edu­cate professionals on how to provide students with the opportunity to care about "the healthy development of the whole self as it is connected to the health of the community and the planet." 
Presenting the keynote ad­dress at the Challenge 2000 conference will be Deirdre Breslin, an expert on alcohol abuse among youths. 
Breslin will speak on "High Level Health: An Essential Component of Programming for the 21st Century." She is the deputy director for the In­tervention Service Unit of the New York State Office of Alco­holism and Substance Abuse Services (OASAS). Since 1984, Breslin has specialized in the development of programs for 
ACONTINUING SEilmS FOR GIUHUA1'E STunENTS 
PRES·~~lfiNG 

DOMINIC VACHON, PH.D. 
DISCl rsSING 
Maximizing Academic Performance in Graduate School: 
A Workshop Using the Insights of Sports Psychology 
This workshop focuses on techniques for: 
* 
Handling performance anxiety in writing papers, taking tests or making presentations 

* 
Dealing with academic setbacks 

* 
Improving confidence in your study strategy 

* 
Maintaining your concentration 

* 
Improving your ability to pace yourself in academic studies 

* 
Focusing your energy more quickly 

* 
Maintaining motivation when you1re burnt out 


DATE:SUNDAY,APRIL9TH TIME: 4: 00 P.M.-5:15P.M. AT: FISCHER O'HARA/GRACE COMMUNITY CENTER 
Sponsored by: The University Counseling Center Campus Ministry Fischer-O'Hara/Grace University Village 
Graduate Student Union 

(?MPUS
MNI)TR)I 

universities, colleges, schools, and community groups. 
As part of Challenge 2000, participants will be involved in "Vision Groups." These "think tank" groups will be asked to address questions regarding the philosophy, current chal­lenges, and future directions of alcohol and drug abuse preven­tion in higher education. The work of these groups will be published in a conference book and sent to each participant at the conference. 
According to Director of Resi­dence Life Jeffrey Shoup, a co­ordinator of the conference, is­sues being discussed at the conference are important to the Notre Dame community and to other academic institu­tions, as well. 
He addressed the idea that Notre Dame wants to be wel­coming to people who do not drink, not only to people who drink alcohol in moderation. 
"In higher education, this idea needs to be considered and supported," he said. 
Shoup noted that the confer­ence was financially supported by a University donor who wanted an innovative approach to drug and alcohol education and was pleased with the idea of Challenge 2000. 
Shoup added that everyone is invited to the conference, in­cluding faculty, staff, and stu­dents of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities. 
Registration forms for Chal­lenge 2000 can be sent to the Center for Continuing Educa­tion. Late registrations will, also, be accepted on Thursday and Friday. 
By EDWARD IMBUS 
Associate News Editor 
Senior administrators and other campus leaders honored Keenan Hall and student and faculty leaders last Tuesday in the Ninth Annual Student Lead­ership Awards Dinner. 
Keenan Hall was named Hall of the Year and given $1,000 by Rich Palermo and Hilary Bo­nenberger, the co-chairs this year of the Hall President's Council, after the decision had been reached earlier by the HPC Executive Council after considering 12 applications. The applications were based on social events, service projects, multicultural awareness, and social responsibility programs, and three others. 
Honorable mentions were given to Siegfried and Farley, along with $500. 
The Rector of the Year award was given to Catherine Lohmueller of Pangborn Hall, again by Palermo and Bonen­berger. She was chosen by the administrators in the University Student Activities Office among seven nominations by the presi­dents of the various residence halls. 
Jay Brandenberger, the as­sociate director of the Center for Social Concerns, was pre­sented with the Frank O'Malley Award by Thad Nation, the ex­ecutive coordinator of Intellec­tual Life for student govern­ment. The award is for a fac­ulty member chosen by student government who demonstrates a commitment to excellence in undergraduate teaching. 

Ke<~tor of the Year 
,, , Catherine Lohmueller 
;;..flilary Bonen.berger and Rich Palenno ...• ltalll'tt!sidents Count:il Co-Presidents 

Professor Patricia O'Hara, the vice president for Student Af­fairs, bestowed two awards, the John Gardner Student Leader­ship Award and the Rev. A Leonard Collins Award. 
The Gardner Award, for "a graduating student who exem­plifies the ideals of the Univer­sity through outstanding volun­teer service beyond the Univer­sity," was conferred on Dave Leonard, a resident assistant in Keenan. The Collins Award, for a graduating senior who has made a substantial effort to advance the interest of Notre Dame students, was presented to Karen Dubay, a student co­ordinator in the Office of Stu­dent Activities. 
The Irish Clover Awards, two awards given to a student, fac­ulty, or staff member for out-
wn_nwoon INN 
BEl> ANI> BREAI\.F.\ST 
"Weekday Discounts" 
MENDON COUNTY INN 440 W. MAIN • MENDON. Ml 49()72 6161496·8132 
SANCTUARY at WILDWOOD 58138 M-40 • JONES. Ml49061 
Ball of the Year 
Keenan Hilary Bonenberger and Rich Palenno Hall Presidents Council Co-Presidents 
Irish Clover Awards 
Ava Collins Bridget ConleyDave HungelingStudent Body President 
Rev. A. Leonard Collins Award 
Karen DuBay · Professor Pauy O'Hara Vice President of Student Affairs 
Robert Bollman 
standing service to the stu­dents, was given to Assistant Dean of the College of Arts and Letters Ava Collins and Bridget Conley, the Student Union Board Manager this year. The honors were presented by past Student Body President Dave Hungeling. 
Conley was also the winner of one of ten Student Leadership Awards, as was Palermo too, announced by Assistant Direc­tor of Student Activities Mary Edgington. 
The other Leadership Awards were given to senior Gregg Behr, junior Amy Carroll, senior Karen Dubay, junior Stacey Kielbasa. junior Cheryl Lehner, junior Christina Lenko, senior Amy Paro, and senior Anthony Popanz. 
Those awards are made by an unnamed board of faculty and staff, who appealed to a large portion of the Notre Dame community in January to return nominations for the awards. 
After a careful examination of the nominations, according to Gayle Spencer. Assistant Director of Student Activities, the board made its choices on major activities and leadership quality. 
---~-­
. .,
. 

page6 The Observer • NEWS Friday, April 7, 1995 
nearby restaurants/bars has by Matthew Cullinan, class of Noonan agreed, saying that phy estimates students com­forced Cactus Jack's into oper­'85. While he works as an places like Lula's offer a "good prise perhaps only "30% of my

Crunpus 
ating as a restaurant-that is, Assistant to University Pres­atmosphere, a good place to business." Lola's Cafe-like their beer taps need to be cov­ident Edward Malloy's office, talk." Studebagels in their first two
continued from page 1 
ered in addition to other such his wife, Anna, has just opened Antonio Parisi, class of '97, years-expect business to not 
alternative to Notre Dame stu­dents that heretofore has never existed. The establishments are all located near campus rather than in the distant downtown area of South Bend. 
Kevin Murphy, class of '89, left San Diego to open Cactus Jack's in 1992 in hopes of lay­ing the foundation for an atmo­sphere he saw lacking at his alma mater. Upset with Notre Dame's social scene as a stu­dent, he knew there was a hole in the market a restaurant like Cactus Jack's could fill. Murphy has brought "real, authentic Mexican food to the Midwest." 
Arguably the closest restau­rant and bar to campus, Mur­phy wanted "a place students could go and not have to drive home." Adding a cantina to the restaurant this past fall, he sees no reason why Cactus Jack's should not be "filled until two in the morning with people eating and drinking." Along with Mike Harmon, MBA '90, Murphy does admit, however, to having a somewhat difficult time in es­tablishing a foothold in an area unaccustomed to competition. 
Harmon, who does the books for Cactus Jack's, describes, "a difficult environment to succeed in from the resistance of local competing bars and restau­rants." Murphy speaks of being "unpleasantly surprised at the negative reception the competi­tion has shown." Pressure from restrictions. 
Nonetheless. Cactus Jack's is "doing great-in a constant state of expansion," says Mur­phy. The Cantina itself was completely paid for within six months after opening. Mur­phy's claim to fame-"our food is made fresh everyday like other California deli style Mexi­can restaurants back home"­has helped Cactus Jack's to en­joy brisk business. 
Melissa Conboy, class of '82, and Associate Director in the Department of Athletics, has experienced similar success in opening Studebagels across from Cactus Jack's in the grow­ing Campus Shoppes plaza. Opened in March of 1993, the bagel shop was created since, as Conboy notes, "there were so few places for students to go." Conboy thinks it is "refreshing to see new places" open up around campus. Yet as Fr. William Beauchamp, Executive Vice-President of the University, points out, "histori­cally, South Bend has not been a college town. The social life [of students] centered around campus." But as times change, Beauchamp notes how Notre Dame alumni seemingly "sense there's a need" for off-campus development. Beauchamp real­izes that it is "unrealistic to as­sume students will stay on cam­pus all the time" and that new businesses are filling that need. 
Similar sentiments are shared Lula's Cafe in Edison Plaza. He sees the cafe as part of a trend; Cullinan says there is just sim­ply "new development in re­sponse to what's seen as differ­ent student needs today, differ­ent alternatives are springing up." 

This situation is different from his days as a student at Notre Dame when social life off-campus focused on the Five Corners where Bridget's, The Commons, the original Corby's, Nicki's, and the bar known now as Club 23 were set up for busi­ness. 
With much of that business aimed at minors and increas­ingly more stringent law en­forcement, all that remains of the Five Corners is Bridget's and nearby Club 23. So, the development of new places to­day is a welcome sight. Beauchamp does not miss the Five Corners and is "happy to see places develop-the more, the better." And while "a good watering hole is fine," the influx of coffee and bagel shops may just be what Notre Dame needs. 
This sentiment is shared by seniors Sarah Swaykus and Tim Noonan. Swaykus finds Lula's cafe a good alternative, com­menting how it is "relaxed and there's no smoking." 
"What else is around here?" she asked. "It's so pathetic­people don't go on dates be­cause there's no where to go." 
works at Lula's Cafe and agrees with the Administration's and other students' views. Parisi sees the new businesses devel­oping as a "good alternative-a nice meeting place where you don't have to scream, where it's more laid back." When asked whether he thought students were willing to make the walk to an off-campus establishment like Lula's, Parisi noted how "students can get to the 'Backer, so why not here as well?" 
Apparently, students are tak­ing the hike, as Lula's has already had to extend operating hours to meet their growing demand. So while business has been "fantastic" according to Egan, it seems more and more evident that a college town at­mosphere may be slowly arriv­ing to the area immediately outside campus limits: the dy­namics involved in developing a better relationship with the city of South Bend seem to be tak­ing shape. 
All three businesses-Cactus Jack's, Studebagels, and Lula's Cafe-rely heavily on patronage from area residents. For ex­ample, at Cactus Jack's, Mur­slow down in the summer once students leave South Bend. They have "taken steps in the direction" of mixing the town and school according to Egan. This summer, they plan to add ice cream and Italian ices to keep attracting business from locals. 
The Notre Dame adminis­tration did informally discuss the possibility of buying some land and developing it during the writing of the Colloquy 2000 (submitted in 1992). However, as Lola's Cafe co-owner and Notre Dame administrator, Cul­linan remarks, it comes down to "balancing what we need to do with our resources; where do you want your tuition dollar to go?" While the discussions for development have not been dismissed, they have not been pushed forward either, accord­ing to Cullinan. 
Yet it seems local en­trepreneurs are taking the ini­tiative and creating that which Notre Dame has for so long lacked-a nearby smattering of restaurants and places to gath­er other than the typical bar scene which is accessible to many only by car. 
HEY! 

THE OBSERVER NEWS DEPT. WANTS YOU! We need a 
NEws CoPY EDITOR 
Interested, Submit a one page statement of intent & a resume to Dave Tyler by Wed, April 11 Questions? Call Dave@ 4~1200 or 1~5323 
Free 

AprilS, 1995 
8:30 a.m. -12:30 p.m. Cushing Auditorium 
A FREE Princeton Review "Preview" Class will be held on 
Tuesday, April 11 7 to 9 p.m. 115 O'Shaughnessy 
--1. 

Sign up in 101 O'Shaughnessy 
--------------------------------------------------------------,
2 Large 2-Topping Pizzas 

\I 
'. 
Friday, April?, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Pellauer: Bible takes androcentric viewpoint 
By AIMEE HEIMANN 
News Writ~r 
Dr. Mary Pellauer spoke last night in a lecture entitled "Women's Right to Think" sponsored by the Women's Studies and Religious Studies departments of Saint Mary's College. Her speech coincided with the centennial anniversary of Elizabeth Cady Stanton's IM_ Woman's Bible. which was the primary literary work of her lecture. 
Dr. Pellauer began her lec­ture with a brief biography of 
By MICHAEL EARLEY 
N~ws Writer 
Barbara Schneider, a senior social scientist at the University of Chicago explained that recent studies on test results from high schools students across the country showed that Catholic schools outperformed and offered the best opportu­nity for growth of the student in urban America. 
In the fifth part of a six part series on equity and excellence in urban schools sponsored by Notre Dame's Urban Institute for Community and Educational Initiatives, Schneider explained that urban Catholic schools of­fered better opportunities for Stanton and quickly moved to some issues in Stanton's work that are still alive in today's so­ciety. The first was the issue of women being opposed by the Christian clergy. 
Pellauer spoke of how women were formed into sewing circles of the church. which raised money for men's education in the seminary, while the women themselves were not educated. Pellauer also explained that some of the most violent ene­mies of women have been the clergy. 
Her second point was a con-preted to mean equality, as it talks of humankind, both male and female. 

The issue of women being selfish and the sexuality of women was discussed, since women were often thought of as being selfish when they pushed for equal rights, even the right to vote. They were thought of as improper if they succumbed to any lust, she said. With this Stanton called for the development of a new religion that would not only tol­erate, but advocate, all that the reforms are after. 
Catholic school youth well educated 
poor and minority students for educational development. 
Family income. ethnic back­ground, and parental education level were all important factors in the conclusions that Schneider drew, but she em­phasized the importance of trust between the parents and teachers as well as students and teachers as one of the most influential factors. 
She stated that the level of importance placed on educa­tion by the Catholic school teachers was influential in gaining the respect and trust of the students and therefore helping those students from dropping out of school. 
Schneider stated that this 
version experience of women to be allowed to think for them­selves as individuals. This growing experience of self­thought allows a woman to be a bigger person, according to Pel­lauer. 
Stanton made an effort throughout her life to interpret the Bible from a woman's point of view, said Pellauer. Her con­temporary interpretation of the Bible was very androcentric and ignored the women or put them down. Pellauer pointed out that Stanton emphasized that the Bible can be inter-
trust was an "important in­dependent effect on student growth," and that the levels of that trust were significantly higher at Catholic schools. 
Using the data from studies, Schneider stated that the Catholic school experience of­fered better educational oppor­tunities for minority and poor students who would otherwise attend a public school. 
However, Schneider stated that these groups could not necessarily afford a Catholic education and therefore were required to attend the local public school alternative. 
When asked, Schneider did say that she supported some form of subsidies to these groups in order to give these people the opportunity to choose a Catholic education for their children. 
Series 
continued from page I 
talk to us anonymously or ask­ing for information 'about a friend'," she said. 
Like Security, Residence Life does not pressure students re­porting rapes into making any decisions. If a victim does pur­sue an incident through Student Affairs, "someone from our office [Residence Life] will meet with her to explain that her full cooperation will be needed, the procedure of the 
• STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD By BECKY MAYERNIK 
News Writer 
Student Activities Board will be offering tickets to a South Bend Silver Hawks game; how­ever, the date of the tickets has been changed. SAB had origi­nally planned to purchase 150 tickets for opening day, which will be April 9. 
Due to the fact that McCandless Hall Council will be selling tickets for this date, they will now be offering tick­ets for the game on Monday, April 24, according to chairper­son Kelly Kilmer. The tickets will be picked up by SAB next week, and will be available to students free of charge at the Haggar front desk. 
"Book Fair U.S.A." will be on the Saint Mary's campus next 
hearing and that she will have to face her attacker." 
"It's a big decision to face the perpetrator," Bridge added. "The first objective of the vic­tim is that she does not want to have to see the person on cam­pus again." 
Bridge did stress that even if the accused is found not guilty in the Student Affairs hearing, "it doesn't mean that we don't believe the victim. Rape is such a serious case and the stakes are so high. . . this usually due to lack of information." 
As far as pressing criminal charges through the St. Joe-
Pellauer further discussed that the changing conditions in this world are really more reli­gious than speculations of the after world. The Doctrine of Original Sin is a male product and oppresses women. Stanton saw this male domination and eliminated certain Biblical pas­sages which oppressed women from her Woman's Bible. 
Pellauer suggested that in or­der for women to have this right to speak, there must be a certain degree of safety and trust. 
Wednesday  and  Thursday,  
April12 and 13.  Premium  
quality hardcover books will be  
on sale for 50-75% off in the Le  
Mans lobby from 9 a.m.  to 5  
p.m.  
Another "Happy Hour" will  
be held on April 20 since the  
same event that was held last  
month was such a success, said  
chairperson  Dallas  Hunt.  
Faculty, staff, and students are  
invited to enjoy mocktails and  
hors  d'oeuvres  in  Haggar  
Parlor from  4:30  -6  p.m.  
Versatile songwriter Roger Day  
will be performing for those  
who attend the event, which is  
free of charge.  
The SAB movie tonight will  
be  "Natural  Born  Killers"  
which is playing at 7 p.m. and  
9:30  p.m.  in  Carroll  
Auditorium.  
seph County Police, Rakow said  
that in his 15 years with the  
University, he can  only  re­ 
member  one  or  two  cases  
where the victims have decided  
to take this route.  
"Either students are comfort­ 
able with the Student Affairs  
process and understand that  
the University takes these mat­ 
ters very seriously, or they don't want to subject them­ j  
selves to another whole pro­ \  
cess," Rakow said. "[Student Affairs] is more personable and less threaten­ing to most victims," Bridge added. "It's not as public."  \ 1 \ 1 \ \  



MARK HAYWARD 
Pennsylvania State University 
Speaks on 
''Career Unraveling, Career Building and RetireiDent'' 
Monday, April10 
4:15 p.m. 
122 Hayes-Healy Reception to Follow 
1 

··········... ......... ....'.:.:I:.... ,/,... ....········ 
........ ·····~"~····· ... I 1
.. .. .~· 
\ I 
1 \ 

1 O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 1 1 
Jcr-Ufm8 
1 

The movies as they were meant to be: Classic films. Big screen. Bargain prices. 
! 

Tuesday,Aprilll, 1:30 and 7:30p.m. 
James Stewart Kim Novak in Alfred Hitchcock's 
VERTIGO 
To say that Vertigo finds Hitchcock at his most obsessive, his most perverse and his sexual best doesn't begin to convey how very haunting-or bizarre-this film is. Police detective Stewart must overcome both a nasty fear of heights and an obsession with Novak in a truly eerie tale of passion. One of Hitchcock's best. 
-~

..----,---,--...,-----...,----­
'' ..
.. 

page 8 The Observer • INTERNAT_::....=...IO::::::...:._N_::A...::L~N...::E=-W....:....:.....S=---___________F_rid_a.:_y,_A~p_ril_7_,_19_9_5 
Burundi government inquires into massacres 
By TERRY LEONARD 
Associa[ed Press 
BUJUMBURA, Burundi 

The government said Wednesday it would investigate reports of ethnic massacres in northeastern Burundi, where the U.S. ambassador said up to 450 people have been slaugh­tered in the past two weeks. 
The U.N. special representa­tive to Burundi said the death toll still needed to be verified and warned that unsubstanti­ated reports could aggravate ethnic hatred and push the country into genocide. 
U.S. Ambassador Robert Krueger said Monday that more than 150 people were massa­cred in the northeast village of Gasorwe in three days of attacks that began March 29. 

He said up to 450 people have been killed the past two weeks in the region. 
"I know the figures to be ac­curate," Krueger said Wednes­day. "Indeed, today some of the figures were confirmed by a high-level church official." 
Krueger gave The Associated Press photographs of about 10 people killed near Gasorwe. They showed grotesquely gashed corpses, including two children reportedly killed with bayonets. One victim's face was partially shot away. 
U.N. special representative Ahmadou Ould Abdallah said he believed reports of violence in the Gasorwe area to be gen­uine, but he cautioned that death tolls there and elsewhere in the northeast hadn't been confirmed. 
"We are pushing this country towards genocide. By we, I mean the international com­munity, including the U.N.," Abdallah said. "In this fragile country, we are traumatizing public opinion by giving them figures that are not checked. We are telling them that geno­cide has started." 
Meanwhile, Radio Burundi 

said at least 72 people were 
killed in three separate ethnic 
clashes this week. 
Burundi's defense minister, Lt. Col. Firmin Sinzoyiheba, re­ported heavy fighting in north­west Cibitoke province between the army and extremist Hutu militiamen. 
Foreign Minister Jean-Marie 

Ngendahayo told a news con­
ference Wednesday the gov­
ernment was forming a Justice 
Ministry commission to investi­
gate reports of massacres in 
northeastern Muyinga province. 
He could not say how soon 
ZAIRE

M~~~~~e~:ck.."' ~ 
Hundreds of Burundians fleeing ethnic cleansing have been turned back at the Tanzanian border. Three were reportedly killed by their own army. 
J~ 
\l 
» 
;j 
/j 
D\JI Ml.II'\IL.II 

• 
/)TANZANIA 
Karosl 
20 miles 40miles ·-·-··-·-Direction of c:::s ( 225
refugees 20 km /_J ·L--Alli 
40km 

c:;::iiif?sq& " 
the commission would report, or what steps were being taking to ensure it was impartial. Krueger said late Wednesday that the commission would be­gin its work in Muyinga on Thursday. 
Amnesty International said in a report released Wednesday that Burundi's justice system is dominated by Tutsis and has done little to establish who is responsible for political killings. 
Survivors of the attacks in Gasorwe said they were carried out by men in army uniforms. For its part, the army has said 20 people were killed in the vil­lage after militiamen attacked soldiers. 
Radio Burundi said Hutu gun­men killed a family of six Tutsis in the northern village of Muhanga. Tutsis living in a dis­placed camp retaliated and killed 29 people, it said. 
Another 37 people were killed in the northeast village of Nyadikere, while the army was trying to disarm Hutu militants, the radio said. It said two gun­men were also killed in an at­tack on a military post in north­ern Burundi. 
The radio did not say when the attacks took place. How­ever, a diplomat. speaking on condition of anonymity, said they apparently occurred late Monday and early Tuesday. 
Sinzoyiheba, the defense min­ister, did not release any casu­alty figures, but said an army position in Cibitoke province had come under repeated attack during the last 24 hours. 
A Western source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the report could not be verified because the army had sealed off the area. However, he noted there have been similar attacks in the past. 
Besides Cibitoke there were 
other reports of ethnic fighting 
in the northeast. the northwest 
and the south, Krueger said. 

4 Gm~ToCALLTtEHLillE 
Frnil3Jvffiv 
Ir-------------------------~ 
I EAL -...·\ 
I ~ ' 
I 

1nJ' Large I.f.,. Pizza for onlv $5 
I 

The Best Pizza at The Best Price 
I 

Call The Huddle At 1-6902 
I I 

COUPON EXPIRES 5/30/95
I

·-------------------------· 
I I I I I I 
: 2 Large 14" Unlimited Topping Pizzas 1 
and a 2/iter Coke Product Onlv $10 1 I Call 1-6902 • I I I 
I I 
COUPON EXPIRES 5/30/95
I I 
~-------------------------~ 
Ir-------------------------~

I I r . EAt...-.\• I
\, ---·····:.:,: -. :-· ..
I I I I
Large /.f. .. Cheese Pizza On/v S-1 
I I
Now. That's a Deal.' • 
I I
Call 1-6902 
I I I I 
COUPON EXPIRES 5/30/95
I I 
·-------------------------· 
OUBLE EAL · · I 
·' 1\ 

I 
You get 2 Lqrge /.f. .. 1 item I 
I

Pizzas for Onlv $9 
I

Call 1-6902 
I I 

COUPON EXPIRES 5/30/95 
.. _------_. ----------------_.. I 
CALL THE HUDDLE AT 1-6902 
We'll meet or heat any conrpetiors coupon or deal, ju~t call us and ask. We Deliver 7 daJ'S a week-lunch, dinner and late nite. 
,------~~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­~ • ' l I I I I I I I  1 ,j '\I''  
I  
Friday, April?, 1995  The Observer • NEWS  page 9  

Congress passes defense spending bill 
By JOHN DlAMOND 
Associared Press 
WASHINGTON 

Congress sent President Clinton a $3.1 billion defense supplemental bill Thursday night to pay for past peace­keeping operations by U.S. troops and head off sharp cuts in military training and main­tenance. 
The House passed the mea­sure 343-80 Thursday. The Senate added its approval by voice Thursday night. Clinton had requested the legislation and was expected to sign it. 
Within minutes of the House vote, Gen. John Shalikashvili, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, was on the phone with congratulations to Rep. Bill Young, R-Fia., who heads the !louse 
Appropriations national security subcommittee. Sha­likashvili had warned lawmakers earlier this year that without the spending measure, the military services would have to cut severely into troop training and equip­ment maintenance. 
Clinton asked for the money to help pay the costs of deployments to Haiti, Somalia, Cuba, the Persian Gulf and elsewhere. While pushing the bill through, lawmakers reminded Clinton of their opposition to some of the administration's humanitari­an and peacekeeping deploy­ments. 
"If they plan any more con­tingencies for humanitarian or peacekeeping missions, they must check with Congress first," Young said after the vote. "Don't just bring us in at the end when it's time to pay the bill." 
Young said the Navy would have had to tie up ships and the Air Force ground planes within weeks if the money had not been forthcoming. 
The measure includes $2.71 billion in new Pentagon spending, plus $360 million in expected reimbursements for last year's U.S. deployment to Kuwait. 
BAND BLOOD DRIVE 
Tuesday, April 11 11 am-6pm Sign up at the Band Building, Walk in on Tuesday, or call1-713 6 for a 15 minute time slot. But most of all, 
GIVE BLOOD AND SAVE A LIFE! 
Amtrak rolls back services 
By RANDOLPH SCHMID 
Associared Press 
WASHINGTON 

The train they call the City of New Orleans will be cut from seven to five days a week, the Broadway Limited to Chicago will end at Pittsburgh and Houston residents who want to ride the Texas Eagle north will have to start with a bus trip to Dallas. 
Amtrak dropped the other shoe Thursday, announcing a series of service cuts scheduled to take place in June and September as the passenger railroad tries to eliminate red ink. 
Without the cutbacks, which will total 24 percent of the rail­road's routes when complete, Amtrak might have been facing bankruptcy by midsummer, said Thomas M. Downs, presi­dent of the railroad. 
If the savings from reducing service and staff go as planned, Amtrak will have a balanced budget this year and next, he said. 
Amtrak was facing a $240 million cash shortfall and had been warned to expect no in­crease in federal subsidies. Amtrak receives nearly $1 bil­lion a year from the Federal Railroad Administration. 
"This is our last anticipated downsizing, we hope," Downs said. "We're down to what we think is the defensible founda­tion of rail passenger service in America." 
Downs blamed Amtrak's money problems on years of reduced capital spending on railroads while subsidies were provided to other types of transportation, combined with intense competition from new low-cost airlines. 
The new cuts are in addition to service reductions an­nounced last December and al­ready in place. 
Downs noted that the cuts will allow Amtrak to get rid of most of the elderly equipment it inherited 25 years ago when it was created. Some cars are a half-century old and spare parts have to be hand made, he said. 
The railroad is eager to meet with state officials who are willing to provide money to keep some services operating, Downs said. Wisconsin, Michi­gan and Vermont, among oth­ers, have already agreed to subsidize operations to main­tain rail service. 
Service cuts scheduled for June 11: 
-IIIini between Chicago and Carbondale: eliminate service on Tuesday, Wednesday and Saturday; keep remaining four days. 
-City of New Orleans be­tween New Orleans and Chicago: eliminate service on Tuesday and Wednesday; re­tain other five days. 

New actor in Japanese election 
By PETER LANDERS Associared Press 
TOKYO 

In Tokyo, a parliamentary gadfly who used to play a char­acter called "Nasty Grandma" on television is running neck­and-neck with the establish­ment candidate for governor. 
Over in Osaka, voters are turning their back on an ex-bu­reaucrat backed by every major party in favor of Knock Yokoyama, a television comic who also has gone by the names Punch and Hook. 
The phenomenon is familiar to democracies around the world, especially the United States: Voters fed up with poli­tics as usual are turning to out­siders. 
Now the wave has hit Japan 

former Democratic Governor of Texas 

Wednesday, Aprill9, at 7:30pm in Washington Hall Tickets are available at the LaFortune 
Info Desk students $3, public $5 
Sponsored by the Office of Student Activities 
with a vengeance. 
In the 1960s, before his elec­tion to parliament, Yukio Aoshima used to dress up in a kimono and wig and play the ti­tle character in a popular tele­vision show, "Nasty Grandma." 
For the last 27 years, he's made a career of taking pot­shots at the establishment. He once called a long-serving prime minister a "male concu­bine" for receiving favors from corporations. 
After elections Sunday, he could become governor of Tokyo's 12 million people. 
The established parties "fig­ured any old guy would be fine so long as they had the machine and the money," said Aoshima, 62. "That's why the people of Tokyo are angry. They're saying, 'What about us?'" 
The Tokyo and Osaka elec­tions, part of a nationwide vote for local offices, aren't the first time citizens have erupted in anger at politicians in a country plagued by incessant corrup­tion scandals. 
In July 1993, voters threw out the conservative Liberal Demo­cratic Party for the first time in 38 years, and a reformist coali­tion led by Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa took over. 

After a few modest reforms, however, Hosokawa got bogged down in scandals and quit. Last June, a coalition dominated by Liberal Democrats took over and old-style politics made a comeback: huge pork-barrel budgets for farmers and little movement on reforms such as cutting bureaucratic red tape and opening markets to foreign goods. 
The difference between now and 1993 is a deep mood of pessimism about government after recent disasters, both nat­ural and manmade. 
Prime Minister Tomiichi Mu­rayama was widely criticized for his slow response to the devastating Jan. 17 Kobe earth­quake. 
Last month, unknown terror­ists spread nerve gas in Tokyo's subways and someone shot the nation's top police official. That threatened the one undeniable accomplishment of postwar Japan: its world-renowned safety. 
Voters have lost trust in opposition parties that call themselves reformist. The main opposition New Frontier Party is perceived by many Japanese as equally corrupt. 

DAVID HOFFMAN, LUTCF 
--------------------------------------~~~~-.: 
I I I J I / / ' ' 
' 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Friday, April 7, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAJNT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucas Managing Editor Business Manager Suzanne Fry Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ....................... Ryan Malayter Sports Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor .;................... Krista A. Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor .................................. Rob Finch Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Conuoller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either instirution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor. Viewpoint Eclitor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 

• EDITORIAL
!%#Them 
of cttlpri 
When we think of rapists, visions of cold, ellJculating sadists dominate our thoughts. We dQ.not tbink.of~atguy)'Vt)$cam on while walking to elass everyafternoon. Nqr dowet~of that guy we met at a dorm party o:t at the 'Backer. Britwe should. Rape is a weapon of power and violence and hate. and it happens at Notre Dame and Sa.intMa.ry's. ·· · .. Gender relations are)he root?.(.~ pro}).~~:W· and itt; few weeks, a lack of discussion (.)ver these issues has l) unexpected side-effect of the debate over gay and lesbian tights. In the past, students have asked the administration for more 24-hour 13pace, relaxed parJ.~tals, co,¢gJlorms M tunities for open dialogue between the sexes_2Hn reali. · dents are asking for the opponumty to liv~ l~e adul~ 
How has the administration responded? Many of the requests have been ignored, others have beeristudied by · while st;ill others are.Q.ealt wi.th WrQY,gh tQ!:J o.1Cq~~JQJ;l!
the student body. · . · . ··· 
The one concrete improvement that past few years is the creation of a ge11der Still, we should not need to join a. sp~:~clal'"""'".. "" 
ized classes to have understanding and re~>Peicnnw sexes. · 
Improving gender relations is intrinsic to ill5tilling ~espect betweenmen and women~ We can improvE) gt:l1lder rela~ons by bringing se;guality to thll for(:lfr · · • ·· · 
women must look to one anot . an atmosphere that encourages open, relaxed dialogue <Pld understanding. The ·administration cannot ignore the that we are asegr!:lgated ... · clu.mps and female ~·,:~tc.tAr.:l ... ·. 
Solving thiS ··· toward 

• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Attacker escapes stereotype 
Dear Editor: 
J is a white, upper-class, Notre Dame student. Her father is a successful banker in New York City, her mother a homemaker and community volunteer. J is from a small. wealthy, Anglo· Saxon, Protestant town in Connecticut. There are no minorities in this town, not one member of the community is on welfare, there are no street gangs, and there is no violence and very little crime. Every son or daughter finishes high school and most go on to attend top universities. Safe and genteel town. Privileged and auspicious upbringing. Bad things do not happen in commu­nities like this or to women like J. 
At age seventeen, J was raped at knife point in the backseat of her car in the parking lot of a local nursing home. 
Unfortunately, the fact that rape can befall any woman is neither understood nor accepted by most people in America. This society perceives rape as a phenomenon of the underclass -a crime of and by the poor. It should come as no surprise then that J's rape went unprosecuted for reasons of disbelief and misguided blame by the police in her town. J's case is similar to episodes that occur on university campuses like Notre Dame, where authorities are unwilling to believe that a man from the immediate commu­nity could violate a woman so violently without "provocation" or "good reason." 
Because J's rape occurred in a prestigious town. the young man/rapist was immediately given the benefit of the doubt {even though "his side" had never even been heard), and J's account doubted. Besides simply doubting her story, the police made J "prove" her truthfulness. She had to tell her account of the rape about fifty times, was forced to take a polygraph test and was administered a "truth serum" to ensure that she was not "making it all up." Also, J was evalu­ated by a police psychologist to see if she was an unstable person, capable of lying compulsively to receive attention. 
The police struggled to find any weaknesses in J's account and were desperate to somehow prove that it was all in her mind -they just wouldn't believe that it had happened in this town. The local police wanted to protect the town's reputation and maintain the facade that nothing "low-class" or violent occurs in such a perfect town. 
However, through their protection of the town, the police protected the rapist. Since they wanted no bad publicity to be brought to the town, the police did not want to put anything in the news­paper about it which could have helped the police track him down. Moreover, the officers tried to convince J not to prosecute by explaining to her all the gory details of a trial. 
Also,the police asked J why she did not alert attention to herself before being forced into the car by the rapist (overlooking the fact that he held a knife to her back and never lost hold of her arm). The police illustrated to J how she could have prevented the rape, thus laying guilt and blame on her shoulders. Basically, with the power position they held over J, and with their male sexist attitudes and degrading ways, J was raped all over again. J realizes now that she was young, naive and scared and handled the terrible situation as best as she knew how at the time, but for many years, because of the officer's accu­sations and blame, J held herself responsible and felt she could have prevented it. 
J blames the police for the "escape" of the young man who raped her and feels that she did not receive the protection and assurance she deserved. The rapist and the town's good name were protected instead of J's and other women's safety. J realizes that had her rapist been a male of lower-class stature or a minority, the blame would have fallen on his shoulders. 
I relate this true story about my rape and the mishandling of it afterward by the police officers of my town because I believe it is relevant to episodes that either have happened or could hap­pen here at Notre Dame. This community must realize that women here are not immune or invulnerable to sexual assault just because the majority of men on campus are white, educated, and from the upper or middle-class. 
Also, we must stop stereotyping rapists as only belonging to lower-class. underprivileged groups. White, upper-class, educated males rape as prevalently as members from other social groups -we just don't hear about it because they are shielded more from media coverage. Next, priv· ilege and protection cannot be accorded by the administration to male ND students who commit rape. Women's rights and safety should not be subordinated to the rights of men on campus. and cannot be subordinated to ND's "good name" and image. J did not receive justice for the vio­lence and injustice done to her. Let's not Jet this happen to another woman at this university. 
ANONYMOUS 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
• QuoTE OF THE DAY

• 000NESBURY 
"Ifa man hasn't discovered something that he will die for, he isn't fit to live." 
-Martin Luther King, Jr. 



VIEWPOINT
Friday, April 7, 1995 page 11 
• I AM Nor APoTTED PLANT 
Negative attention 
better than none at all 

• lETIER TO THE EDITOR 
Following a different set of playing rules 
Well, it took six months, but I finally managed to get myself attacked in the hallowed pages of The Observer. 0 happy day! I was starting to understand how professors lecturing to 8 a.m. class­es must feel. Either people were too bored to respond to my columns, or they didn't think it was worth the effort. 
But hallelujah! Now I am officially 

Charles Roth 
proclaimed a hate-filled bigot, and not only that, but an uneducated fundamen­talist putz. I tell you, it feels good. I keep running into fellow law students who ask me, Chuck, what did you say? Hey Chuck, do you have any copies of your last article? 
Since I started this column thing a few months ago, I have been wondering whether any non-law students recognize me as I walk around campus or sit in South Dining Hall. My old passport pic­ture is unfairly accurate. But never before did I need to fear being labeled, not just as one of those nerds who writes Observer columns, but as an intolerant boob. 
After my first few columns, when no one said anything, I kind of figured that it was socially unacceptable to attack Observer columnists. I relaxed. One time, someone called to say that they agreed with me about homosexuality; I didn't even return the call (what sort of weirdo, said I, would call up a columnist to agree with him?). A few people talked to me about my column on Catholicism and fundamentalism (the only column so far that I now consider to have been wrong), but they were law students, so it was OK. 
But now, apparently, the dams have been broken. I've been attacked, not once, but twice! And I've started receiv­ing e-mail messages, generally from people telling me that they liked my f'olumns. But there are exceptions to the positive feedback. 
My favorite exception I call the poet. I knew he was an English major as soon as I started to read his messages, becaLse they make so little sense. For instance, "You seem to react to issues with a reasonable mind. That too is a problem as far as I'm concerned." Now that's an interesting take on the old male-sexist-racist-bigoted-hate-filled­homophobic-ignoramus argument. I'm reasonable, and therefore I'm wrong! Hmm. 
But the best has got to be his ode to vehemence, which I reprint here for your amusement and intellectual stimulation: 
"Conservative spouting fountain of hatred forthing at the mouth over sex, sex, sex. 
Define my sins Roth, am I going to hell Roth? Am I sinner, please tell me o oracle, o wise one!! 
Am I a 'goin to hell? HA. I laugh at your medieval thought process, I scorn hell or any notion of it. You sir. are hell enough for me." 
I think some of the words are mis­spelled, but I didn't want to correct them and thereby screw up some great poetry. I shall not be accused of altering that masterpiece, and no, in case you're wondering, I did not make it up. I did, however, respond with a poem almost as bad, for I could think of no other proper response. 
Of course, there's something intrinsi­cally weird about writing in a school newspaper. By calling yourself a colum­nist, you're setting yourself up as some sort of public figure (my friends used to joke about Mr. Ozersky all the time, but in a nice way). At some point, you have to wonder: why the heck are we public figures? It's not as we passed some sort of rigorous "column training" course. No one votes for those columnists they'd like to retain (though now that I think of it, that wouldn't be a bad idea). 
But even weirder than our self-selec­tion process is the fact that when we express our ideas in the paper, we come to stand for something in people's minds. In some people's minds, I appar­ently stand for some homophobe that they met years ago, with a highlighted Bible in hand. Or maybe, for some, the guy in high school who called people who raised their hands in class, "fags." Who knows? But somehow, I, Chuck Roth, got identified as ignorant and hate-filled. 
I don't mind that, for myself. My friends know me, and they don't think I'm hate-filled (maybe a bit too socially conservative, but what's politics be­tween friends?). But it hurts the debate when people call each other names. A few weeks ago, I tried to stand inside Tom Dooley's shoes for awhile, and imagine what he might think about this current debate. And because it wasn't a standard column (i.e. one where you cover your butt with rationales), it got attacked. Now, the next person who wants to write such a column might think twice about it. 
I say: reject labels, and keep an open mind. I like getting letters from "the poet." He may be a loony English major, but who cares? We've all got our prob­lems. And at least he isn't hate-filled. 
Charles Roth is a second-year law stu­dent. llis e-mail address is charles c. roth. 6@nd. edu 

Ocar Editor: 
On Tuesday, April 4, around 6 p.m. I arrived at intramural gym two in the JACC to play basketball. Aerobics class was just letting out and several other people had also shown up to play. We quickly orga­nized teams and began to play a full court pick-up game. 
Near the end of the game, a contingent of fifteen or so male students (all but one of whom were white) entered the gym. They impatiently crowded onto one corner of the eourt as we played, apparently thinking that their mere presence should be sufficient motiva­tion for us to cede the court to them. We continued to play in spite of their overt rudeness and soon finished our game. It was then about 6:30 p.m. I happened to be on the winning team and we wanted to continue to play. Now, it is standard court "etiquette" that the reigning winning team has the "right" to keep the court. Here sheer numbers do not automatically rule; any newcomers must challenge the winner of the pre­vious game. 
Well, when these newcomers realized that we were going to insist on our right to play a challenging team, they appeared incredulous at the very suggestion of having to win the court from a team that happened to be comprised predominately of black men. One of the rwwcomers approached me, who happened to be the only white person on our team, asking if my team­mates were students. The insinuation seemed clear: they happened to be black men and so they didn't deserve the benefit of the doubt. 
In any case, it was soon clarified that my teammates were all JACC staff and had every right to use the court. When this was made known, the question sud­denly arose regarding whether or not the court was reserved. My teammates claimed that they had checked beforehand with the issue room, which han­dles all court reservations, and had been informed that the court was open. 
Apparently the word of these black men was not to b1~ trusted. The newcomers insisted that the matter be verified before they submitted to challenging our team. Several minutes later, word came back that my team­mates were telling the truth: the gym was open until 8 
p.m. The newcomers reluctantly fielded a challenging tions; a "new list" had come across his desk just that afternoon, and all of the courts in the JACC were reserved for the entire evening for interhall basketball. This sounded quite suspicious to both me and my teammates, but we complied with the evietion notice and vacated the gym. 
I went straightway to the issue room to inquire on the matter and was told that gym two was open until 8 
p.m. and court four was not reserved. Thinking that the security officer's story might just be correct but remaining skeptical nonetheless, I left the JACC. 
Upon arriving home I telephoned the issue room to check on court reservations for the night. And again I was told the same thing: court two was open until 8 
p.m. and court four was not reserved. It was then around 7:30 p.m. I thus drew the following inference: either the security officer had lied or he had still neglected to inform the issue room of the "new list." 
Now, it seems reasonable that the security officer, aware of the confusion, should have promptly informed the issue room of the "new list." And a half hour surely presented him with ample opportunity to have done so. I interpret the security officer's failure to do so as evidence that there was in fact no "new list." Furthermore, on Wednesday, I telephoned the security office at the JACC and was informed that their office has nothing to do with court reservations. Therefore, I 
'can conclude only that the security officer had lied. I admit the fallibility of my judgment and the possi­___.--bility that I might have been "deceived" by "appear­_____::___!__~~__:::.~0Jn!J~~~---=~~..._:__:~ ances." I also recognize that I have no evidence, other 
.. 

team, and we began to play. 
At about 7 p.m. a campus security officer, who hap­pened to be white, appeared on the scene, and walked onto the court to break up the game. When the officer discovered that everyone there had the right to use the court the question again shifted to whether the court was reserved. To our surprise, the security officer pro­nounced the court to be reserved for the newcomers beginning at 7 p.m. My teammates protested, inform­ing him that the issue room had indicated that the court was not reserved at that time. The security offi­cer responded with the following story: the issue room did not have the most recently updated list of reserva­than the circumstantial evidence presented above, that there never was any "new list." I further realize, no matter how difficult it would be for me to believe it, that "who happened to be white" and "who happened to be black" may have had nothing to do with either the onset or outcome of this incident. For these rea­sons, I make no attempt here to implicate any of the parties involved. However, I cannot see this incident as anything other than a manifest case of racial discrimi­nation, and I feel that it is my responsibility to inform the entire university community of its occurrence. 
DARRIN BELOUSEK Graduate Student 


) 

page 12 The Observer• WEEKEND Friday, April 7, 1995 
up t e 
wee 

By SYLVESTER GORMAN Accent Wrirer 
T
he 1995 Notre Dame Collegiate Jazz Festival is a two-day produc­tion showcasing the talent of vari­ous college jazz ensembles and the refmed sounds of the more experienced and acclaimed judges of the compe­tition. 
A dynamic and highly creative form of musical expression, jazz is seldom expe­rienced by the everyday student. Even those who have a background or an afimity for jazz rarely get the chance to heighten this experience by seeing a good live performance. The Jazz Festival exposes people to an art that is often overlooked by students who have never given jazz a chance, and satisfies the appetites of those who wait all year to see the best jazzmen play fabulous music. 
The festival is an affair that attracts some of the fmest college jazz bands in the country to compete, learn, and enjoy their trade with others who share a sim­ilar love for the music. This year the fes­tival is chaired by Sean Kennedy and guided by the longtime faculty advisor and band director Rev. George Wiskirchen, C.S.C. These two have worked in conjunction with many devot­ed students to bring Notre Dame an event that is unequaled on any other campus. 
Bands hail from Southwest Texas State, the University of Kentucky, Princeton University, Michigan State University, Emporia State University, Florida State University, Millikin University, the University of Wisconsin, Rutgers University, and Western Michigan University. Impressive as it may be, this list of participants is overshadowed by the six judges who evaluate them. Not only lending their expert opinions in the competition, the judges will also play in the Judges' Jam on Friday night. 
This year's crop of judges is loaded 
with artists who bring with them experi­
ence, skill, and style. Fr. George believes 
this is "one of the better groups we've 
had. I'm personally looking forward to 
hearing them." Headlining this 
weekend is the upwardly-
bound trumpet player, 
Hargrove was ~ discovered' while still in \ college by the leader of the I recent resurgence of tradi­tional jazz, Wynton Marsalis. He is part of the generation of musicians known in jazz circles as the "Young Lions." In his mid­twenties, Roy has already record­ed with three different labels, and he has played alongside some of the men who will eventually hang up their instruments and sit back and watch him carry on the art that they developed and per­fected. 
Fr. George says, "We are lucky to have someone like Hargrove," real­izing that now is the time to grab Hargrove because he is on the brink of super star­dom. In another year, demand for his time might make it impos­sible to get him to attend the festival. Mike Sasena is also anticipating Hargrove. He says, "I am excited about seeing Roy's improv since I am a trumpet player. Watching judges is unbelievable!" 
Hargrove is not the only "name" that will be in attendance. The Festival will also include the sounds and knowledge of alto saxophonist Bobby Watson, pianist Jim McNeely, bassist George Mraz, and Butch Miles on drums. Dan Mortgenstern is a renowned jazz critic who will judge but not play. These musi­cians are no slouches either. 
Watson is viewed by Fr. George as one of the best saxophonists out there. He says, "Watson has been playing remark­ably for the last three years, and he's been getting the recordings to document it." 
McNeely's fingers not only span the ivories, but the globe as well. He has played nearly everywhere for all kinds of audiences. He can credit some of his success to one of his old mentors, Fr. George. 
Wiskerchen says, "Jim is one of the best pianists around. Of 
and 

Miles have had sim­ilar success and exposure throughout their careers. Their superb technical skills and acute feel for rhythm have astounded listeners and young bassists and drummers for years. They are per­fect examples of performers that make people like Bridget Morrey say, "The best way to learn to like jazz is to just go and listen to it." Hearing these two pound out the all-important rhythms 
and then quickly shift gears into con­trolled but wild improvisations is a pul­sating experience unlike anything found in other forms of music . 
Mortgenstern has been a part of the panel nearly every year since 1968, a definite sign of the quality of bands that play in South Bend each Spring. Fr. George has the utmost respect for Mortgenstern. He claims, "Dan is one of the most knowledgeable jazz historians and critics around. 
He has more stuff in his head on jazz than anyone around. He provides a sense of history and perspective. If you had all young guys, you tend to lose the jazz of way back." Mortgestern's loyalty to the festival is not only a testament to the level of jazz found here, but it also shows the importance of tradition in jazz. At thirty-seven years, the festival is the oldest of its kind in America. 
The members of the Student Union 
Board, the musicians in the Monday 
Night Band and the Tuesday Night Big 
Band, and the rest of the people 
involved are sure to deliver a spectacu­
lar event. Soloists who will be con­
tributing their talents for Notre Dame 
are Tony Garza on sax, Chad Helmle on 
trumpet, Sue Riemann on trombone, 
Kevin Hoffmann on Guitar, Andy Brenner on piano, Greg VanSlambrook on drums, and several others. 
If not for his drumming skill, one should at least go see VanSlambrook play because he has a great name for a drummer. Sue Riemann thinks the band is ready to jam. She says, "Last Sunday was a run-through· to get out all of the glitches, but then we cleaned everything up." She cannot think of a better show that is so conducive to bringing a date and has so much bang for the buck. 
Riemann adds, "For the talent we have, it is inexpensive to go." At $4 for the Friday session, $2 for Saturday night, and $5 for a weekend pass, Fr. George accurately exclaims that stu­dents "can't say it costs too much money." The general public can get the whole package for only $15. 
The festival opens tonight at 7:30 in Stepan Center. Friday begins the compe­tition, and the evening closes with the Judges' Jam at 10:30 p.m. On Saturday, free clinics taught by the judges in the band building are offered beginning at 11 a.m. 
The competition continues at 1 p.m. in Stepan. This year marks the return of the Participant's Jam, which will pre­cede the awards ceremony at 7:30p.m. on Saturday night. Tickets are available at the LaFortune Student Center infor­mation desk and at the door. 
Fr. George sums up the festival with a tinge of nostalgia when he says, "I look forward to it every year. I get really excited for it. It never gets old learning new things, hearing new music, and 
\'\ 
I! J I It • I I I I 1 I I I 

Friday, April 7, 1995 The Observer• WEEKEND page 13 


wante 
• 



The truth behind summer 
employment opportunities 

By JENNY SHANK 
Accem Writer 
Y
ou have probably read the classified ads in The Observer promising money, power, and prestige 
by working in cruise ships, Alaska, or national 
parks. You, like many others, have fondly envisioned 
yourself as an apprentice to Smokey the Bear, but then 
dismissed the thought without pursuing it. You have been tempted to dial the number in the "NATIONAL PARKS HIRING" ad time and time again, but never got-A ten the courage to do so. Well, now 
you need look no further. The 
Observer went out of their way 
and made all the phone calls. They asked all the probing questions that have been lurking in the back of your mind every time you scan through the classifieds. The results may surprise you. 
They might amaze you. And they could just send you packing, enroute to an exciting summer 
employment opportunity, no flipping ham­burgers required. If you are into hugging trees and saving whales, call 
the "ENVIRONMENTAL JOBS FOR THE SUM­Yes, you too can travel to the MEH" number, Judy will inform you that Bahamas, Mexico, Alaska, you can earn $200-$300 a week work­Europe, and wonder of ing for the "Free the Planet wonders, sunny Florida! 
Campaign." She will assure you that they were not the people wearing Birkenstocks and tree bark you saw at the airport attacking people carrying Styrofoam cups. Judy will tell you that the "Free the Planet Campaign" is a politi­cal organization which lobbies congress to protect the envi­ronment. When you work for the "Free the Planet Campaign" you will 
work a minimum of ten 40-hour weeks, 
working from 2 pm to 10 pm daily. Begging for money to fund the campaign and other envi­
ronmental organizations will con­
sume four hours of your day' while 
you'll be busy with other "things" 
the rest of the time, including 
press conferences and phone 
solicitation. The majority of 
this brain-taxing work is door 
to door. And no, they won't 
replace worn out 
Birkenstocks. The whole 
$200-$300 is a vicious hoax 
too, we discovered. How 
much you make a week 
"depends on your qualifications 
and performance." Which means that 
if you don't raise the minimum of $90 a day, 
you are out of a job. $300 is the ceiling on your income day's catch; you could possibly be working upwards of too, although they did tell us that you can pocket 1/3 of ten hours if the fish are biting. Bob was rather evasive all money you earn over $200. The 
interesting when we asked how much we could earn an hour. part about this whole thing is, no matter "Well...um, like I said, $4000 a when you call or who you talk to, you month! If you want money, get the same exact spiel from each Alaska is the place to be! tele-marketing operator, "The new And it looks good, too!" 
Congress may roll back core laws. 
Environmental protection is in jeopardy because of the situa­tion in Congress, blah, blah, l}lah." 
Particularly intriguing is the "NATIONAL PARKS IIIR­ING" ad. Have you long envi­sioned yourself living in the forest, enjoying a hand-to­mouth existence? Eating S'mores 
CRUISE SHIPS HIRING! How often have you 
promised yourself,
ARN BIG $$$ + FREE WOR 
"This summer, I am 
TRAVEL (CARIBBEAN, definitely not living at home!" Go west,
EUROPE, HAWAII, ETC.) 
young man! How SUMMER/PERMANENT, N about some "ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOY­
EXPER. NEG. GUIDE. 
MENT." Call the number ext C1753 and Bob, a man who is just a 
"So, Bob," we asked,
MMERJOBS 

our journalistic savvyALL LAND/WATER SPORTS shining through, "what 
would we be canning ...
PRESTIGE CHILDREN•s CAM 
like, fish?" 

ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS Bob seemed to be caught off guard by our
NEAR LAKE PLACID 
probing interrogation.1-800-77 -CAMPS "Uh ... yeah. But it depends 
three times a day? Watching out for little boy scouts and girl scouts as they cavort happily in our nation's parks and recreation areas? You could make this dream a reality ... that is, if you're willing to shell out $49.95 for a guide to tell you how to get a job in the forestry industry. At first, our telephone opera­tor informed us that our prospective employers '"an "major lodges, resorts, and parks." Upon fur .. er questioning however, and after we told them about our visions of S'mores, we were informed that employees earn an average of $1300 per month in national parks across the country, where they could possibly work as park rangers, survey assistants, clerical workers, or even fire fighters. Hmmm...fire fighting ... do you like the sound of that or what? Of course, this was another one of those, "$1300 a month depends on the job, qualifica­tions, and experience." 
Who hasn't dreamed of working on the "Love Boat"? Well, maybe you haven't, but call the "CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING" number anyway. For a $49.95 fee, this company will provide you with a guide that will be your key to gaining employment in the exciting cruise indus­try. You could earn $2000 to $3000 a month working as a bartender, entertainer, cook, waitstaff, in the gift shop, or as a fitness instructor on any of the major cruise lines. We asked the cruise line representative if we could use our theol­ogy knowledge to enter­tain the cruise guests by comparing and contrasting the gospels' resurrection narra­tives. She suggested that we instead seek employment at McDonald's, where the 
people are more receptive to that sort of thing. However, after a little teeth-pulling, we did get her to tell us all about those "exotic, foreign ports of call." 
little too excited about the whole thing, will inform you that the Alaska ser­vices group is more than happy to provide you with a guide to all the employment opportunities in the 
•"!-:_~~~~--Alaska fishery industry for just a ~ ~..-,,...01~ $49 fee. (Is this a trend or what? Why does everyone want $49? Why can't they just ask for $50?) Yes, you too could work in the onshore or offshore processing business, in a factory (of which the exact nature remains un­known) or in a cannery, 1earning "in excess of $4000 a month while 
working 8-12 hours a day, 5-7 days a week." The bad part about this is that it all depends on the 
on the catch. And there are other things to can, like clams." "Okay Bob. Give it to us straight. Is this canning stuff strenuous?" 
"Well," Bob paused, realizing that he had been caught in a technicality, and finally admitted, "yes, to be honest with you, canning is pretty physically demanding. Are you in good physical condition?" 
"Bob, 'good' is such a relative term, don't you think?" 
All in all, $49.95 seems a little steep for access to a 1­800 number, which is what ads like "Cruise Ships now hiring" promise when you call. Sounds like a really big oxymoron to us. Maybe flipping hamburgers in the good ol' U.S. of A. isn't such a bad idea anyhow. 
: r;> ~-·;,··.; 
.·· :~'i1~~;-~ 
:r.' ,' ··.r·,'·: ~ ~-.~:
Friday 

• 
7 & 9:30PM "NATURAL BORN KILLERS" CARROL HALL AUDITORIUM (SMC) 

• 
7:30 & 10:30 PM COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL STEPAN CENTER 

•7:30 
& 9:45 PM "THE LAsT SEDUCTION" SNITE 

• 
S & 10:30 PM "FORREST GUMP" CUSHING AUDITORIUM 

• 
8 PM "OUR COUNTRY'S GOOD" WASHINGTON HALL. 

• 
9 PM ASIAN AMERICAN ASSOCIATION HOUSE PARTY 


Saturday 

.· • 11 AM BAND BUILDING, 1 8c 7:30 PM COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL STEPAN 
• 
7 PM LUAU LAFORTUNE BALLROOM 

• 
7:30PM MAYA ANCIIELOU ANGELA ATHLETIC FACULTY (SMC) 

•7:30 
8c 9:415 PM "THE l.AST SEDUCTION" SNITE • 8 & 10:30 PM "FORREST GUMP• CUSHING AUDITORIUM 

• 
8 PM " OUR COUNTRY'S GOOD" WASHINGTON HALL 

• 
8:45 PM MICHAEL MCGLINN AT DALLOWAYS 

• 
9 PM APOCALYPSE 9!5 ARCHITECTURE BUILDING 

• 
10 PM INTERNATIONAL DISCOTHEQUE HAGGER (SMC) 


Sunday 

• 
2:30 PM "OUR COUNTRY'S GOOD"' WASHINGTON HALL 

•1 
PM WALK FOR SOCIAL JUSTICE-SAINT MARY'S CLUBHOUSE 

•1 
:30 PM ALL SCHOOL LITURGY AT THE CHURCH OF LORETTO (ALL OTHER CAM~ PUS MASSES ARE CONCELLED) 


Movies 

UNIVERSITY PARK WEST (IN MALL.) THE GOOFY MOVIE: 1:45, 3;4!5, !5:40, 7:30,9:20 CANDYMAN 2: 5, 9:40 LOSING ISAIAH: 2:15, 7:1 5 TOMMY SOY: 2, 4:45,7,.9:10 
UNIVERSITY PARK EAST 
• 

OUTBREAK: 2, 4:30, 7, 9:!50 MURIEL'S WEDDING: 2:40, 5:10, 7:25, 9:45 BAD BOYS: 1:30, 4, 6:30, 9 BAD BOYS: 2:15,4:40,7:10,9:40 PULP FICTION: 2, 5:15, 8:4!5 MAN OF THE HOUSE: 2:3!5, 4:!50 TANK GIRL: 7:30, 10 
MOVIES 10 MISHAWAKA CIRCLE OF FRIENDS: 1:30, 4:20, 7120, 9:50 BORN TO BE WILD: 12:!5!5, 3:20, !5:40 TALL TALE: 1:05, 3:15, !5:3!5, 7:!50, 9:!55 FORREST GUMP: 1, 4, 7, 10 MAJOR PAYNE: 1:10, 3:25, !5:4!5, 7:!55, 10:15 DON JUAN DEMARCO: 12:50, 3: 10, !5:30, 7:45, 10:05 DOLORES CLAIBORNE: 1:20, 4:0!5, 7:10, 10:10 BYE BYE LOVE: 1:40, 4: 10, 7: 1 !5, 9:40 EXOTICA: 1:45, 4:1 !5, 7:0!5, 9:35 LITTLE WOMEN: 1:25, 3:55 BULLETS OVER BROADWAY: 7:25,9:48 
' ' ' .~.~.~.~~~~~~-----~~----------~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~------~,. 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, April 7, 1995 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALl 

First McRae, then Strike leaves family ruined 
By MIKE NADEL players because of the strike, Dave got a call Associated Press from Stu Cann, the area scout who originally
Royals trade Cone 
signed him for the Braves. By DOUG TUCKER Gaston said. "We'll try to start HANOVER PARK, Ill. "I told Dave, 'You just don't get a second the season with him. David is Felicia Shotkoski dabs her eyes with a tissue, chance like this in life.' So he decided to go for
ASsociated Press 
one of the premier pitchers in smudging her mascara. Her other hand caresses it," Felicia says. "You should've seen him. He HAINES CITY, Fla. all of baseball." a small, gold baseball glove pendant, her first had baseball again; he was on cloud nine." 
Declaring the future of base­The two trades plus a few Christmas present from her husband. Dave. Dave, 30, took all his vacation time and then an ball in Kansas City is at stake, lesser moves have trimmed a She's trying to hold back the tears, trying to unpaid leave to attend spring training in West the Royals traded Cy Young $40 million payroll to about focus on the memories, trying not to dwell on Palm Beach. Fla. Felicia and Alexis lived on her Award winner David Cone and $30 million. what might have been. salary as a reservations supervisor at United his $5 million salary to the "When we say we're doing What if the baseball strike hadn't given Dave Airlines and the meal money he sent home. Toronto Blue on Thursday for what's best for the Kansas City Shotkoski a second chance at his dream of pitch­Early in camp, Shotkoski started taking three minor leaguers. Royals, I mean that literally," ing in the major leagues? What if he hadn't left evening walks to strengthen a sore ankle, clear 
"Our No. 1 goal is to keep Robinson said. his job at a bottling plant to try out as a replace­his mind and help pass the time. baseball in Kansas City and Does that mean the team's ment player for the Atlanta Braves? What if he "I usually called him at night," Felicia says. keep it viable," general man­survival in Kansas City? hadn't gone for a walk the night he was shot to "But the day it happened, I called him in the ager Herk Robinson said. "Yes." death near the team's spring training hotel? afternoon. I was like a mom, telling him, 'Be "That's what we want to do the Cone, a union activist "Dave taught me that I can't change things, so careful on your walk.' most." throughout the long strike, I try not to think of what ifs," says Felicia, a "He said, 'I always am.' " 
The day before dealing their wasn't bitter. widow at 29 and mother to 9-month-old Alexis. On March 24, police say Neal Douglas Evans, a best pitcher, the Royals, who "It's no secret I've got one "If I do, I just get angry. And anger can't help me repeat felon wanted for parole violations, tried to claim they lost $25 million last year on my contract, and or my baby now. rob Shotkoski. 
season, unloaded their best there's no guarantee I would be "But yes, I have thought that if there wasn't a When the ballplayer tried to run away, police outfielder, Brian McRae, to the with the Royals next year," he strike, my husband would be alive today. The say, Evans shot him. Evans, charged with first­Chicago Cubs for two prospects. said. ''I'm still going to be a only thing that keeps me going right now is degree murder and attempted armed robbery, Kansas City was furious the Royals fan. I'm still going to do knowing that he died chasing his dream." was indicted by a grand jury Thursday. strike ended without securing a lot of good things in that com­Dave Shotkoski was drafted by the Braves in The days since the incident have been full of revenue-sharing for small-mar­munity. But if you can't play for 1985. He never made it to the majors, pitching in pain for Felicia. ket clubs. your hometown, then Toronto's the Atlanta, Oakland and California systems "Dave was my life, Dave and the baby," she 
.Toronto was pleased at the a great place to be. It's a class before being released in March 1992. says. "I don't know what I'll do with my life now. He and Felicia, who had known each other I'm lost. I'm empty. I feel like my heart's been
return of Cone, who helped the organization just like the since high school and dated since 1988, got mar­ripped out. This is all so senseless, all so unfair."
Blue Jays win the 1992 World Royals." 
Series. The Royals admit they've ried. Dave went to work for the Coca-Cola She's returned only once to the house she "David's our No. 1 starter weakened the club in the short Bottling Co. in the Chicago suburb of Niles. shared with him, staying instead with her par­now," Blue Jays manager Cito run. When teams started looking for replacement ents. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

SUMMER JOBS OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered Mac.Pwrbk.$1 kobo 284-5256 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 Leaving town? ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS at $85,900. First floor location. LaFortune Student Center
NOTICES 

Responsible professional 40-ish PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS Finished basement with full lavato­'86 FORD TEMPO, 57k, $2,000 -./ Quick turn around time! II man employed in downtown South ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS ry. Two bedrooms and two baths on OR B/0. 631-7119. -./ Most orders completed Bend looking to house sit for 3 NEAR LAKE PLACID ground leveL Lease back to owner within 24 hours 
FORREST GUMP months to one year. Let me ensure 1-800· 786-8373 through May, 1995. Call -J Free pick-up & delivery CUSHING Fri/Sat 8/1030 that your home is properly tended (616)946-0700. TICKETS to & from departments 
brought by SUB while you're away. My current ALASKA SUMMER JOBS -Very -./ Call 631-COPY home is being redone. Live alone. High Earnings Potential with over Need 2 grad tix for step-parents Have impeccable professional and 8,000 openings! Students work on Beautiful '90 Acura Integra LS Tanja 277-8594 I'm driving 2 Iowa 4 Easter. If U 
1111111111111111111111111111111111 personal references. Lifelong fishing vessels and in onshore can­Coupe Ssp Champagne-Silver,AC need a ride call Ann X2563 Senior One-Acts Michiana resident. Call (616) 699-neries. No exp. necessary. power sunroof,spoiler, 55k miles 
PERSONAL

Tues. April 11, 1995 5993. Male/Female. Room/Board & $9200, '94 ND Grad in Chicago, SAM IS A WUSSI Washington Hall Transportation often free. Call must sell, but hate to part. Call 7:30PM Student Employment Services for (312) 661-7278 X-RAY ROGER JIMMY LIVE AT Guitarist looking to start a band for Admission: $2.00 seeking a ride to Nashville for Directory. (206)545-4155 ext CORBY'S APR 1 & CLUB 23 next year. Searching for serious Benefitting the Beeler­easter brk. call patrick X4050 A55841 Need furniture for next year? 4 APRIL 8. SHOW STARTS AT 10. musicians that like to play a wide Hipp Memorial seniors @ Turtle have LOTS of variety of music ranging from Scholarship Starting at $12/hr! The Princeton is NICE furniture! Call for details: I STILL NEED YOU! Acid Jazz to Blues to Phish. For !!HI!II!!!!!!!I!!!!!l!!!l!llll!l!l looking for people to teach our test FOR RENT 277-7597 Larry is still looking for a ride to more info please call Dave at 
preparation courses. If you've Tennessee for Easter Break. x1643. $$ FOR TEXTBOOKS$$ earned a high score on the GMAT, Female housemates needed Laptop Modem: Megahertz PCM­Knoxville is ideal, Nashville is Are you going to read those things MCAT, LSATor GRE and would to sublet for summer mos. CIA, 2400bps data/fax acceptable. If you are going any­Hey Hot B! Congrats on the new again? I think not. 2323-2342 like to work 6-1 0 hrs per week, con­and maybe share lease $59.00 Mike: 634-3981 where near those cities this break, edition to the family! (Just make Pandora's Bks ND Ave & Howard tact us at: (800)865-7737 for 95-96 school year. Mostly please call Larry at 634-3597. Will sure this doesn't happen to you any 
funished apt. at College Park. '90 Honda Civic Station Wagon, share gas, tolls, expenses. time soon ... ) 
Wanted: ride to Pittsburgh, PA for 272-1538 Auto/PS/PB; AIC;AMIFM Cassette; ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAK­Easter Break. Will help drive and 35K;$7600; Call 631-5587 (day); A Coded message for the trendy FAST, 35 MIN TO N.D. SPECIAL pay for gas. Call Mel at x3888. COLLEGE PARK CONDO: 234-3927 (evening) ADOPTION -A LOVING CHOICE ones: "OBSERVER" RATE $50/$60, For lease, 2 bd., 2 ba. furnished Pediatrician and pediatric nurse "The mice are in the bellry ... The FULL. BREAKFAST. THE HOME­POSITION AVAILABLE: unit, Alarm system. AvaiL June 1st. WANT A CAR FOR NEXT YEAR? happily married for seven years are chicken's in the barn ... and the SPUN COUNTRY INN, NAPPA­Student Advisor Call: (818)441-1275 '88 Nissan Sentra, Auto, AIC, hoping to share our love with a bread is in the NEE, 219-773-2034. DUTIES INCLUDE: Counseling, ONLY 65K, excellent condition, child. We love the outdoors, have toaster ..Trendy,Trendy, Trendy" 
advising and enrolling students; ••••••••••NOTICE***••••••••••• NEW paint job, $2000 or BO comfortable home and country lake­WORD PROCESSING, TAXES, working at the front desk; answer­If you are interested in living at CALL X1343 side cottage. Will provide secure, -G-Bump GIFTS. 256-6657 ing phones; keeping track of atten­Turtle Creek next year, call Chris loving home with full time mom. 
dance sheets, records and con­at 273-1399 as soon as possible. 86 HONDA PRELUDE Sl Counseling and allowable expens­Hey D.J. Twisty! tracts; organizing materials for daily red 5spd. Must sell. es. Call Kim or Mike at 1-800-469-What's shakin'? 
ILOST & FOUND I 

classes, class orientations and Rent NOW for Fall Semester -com­634-2475 0559 -v.D. 
seminars; becoming very knowl­pletely remodeled home in great Lost: Tear-drop multi-stoned edgeable about our product. student neighborhood. Available to For Sale: Roller Blades To Siegfried Rm. 348 bracelet at Bridget's the Thursday Responsibilities may also include 5 students -5 private bedrooms, 2 Like New: Bravoblades GL Julie Julie Julie Hurley Ummm... Work it. Thanks. Bu-Bye before Spring Break-PLEASE bookkeeping, proctoring for off-site full baths, washer and dryer, large Black, Size7 1/2-8 Oh, your hair is brown and curley CALL IF FOUND IIII x3842 ask for classes, and data entry. rec room. Your own personal frat $100 (Negotiable) Ask her if she likes Mr. Furley, Enjoy the trip guys, and try not to let
• Katie SKILLS REQUIRED: Excellent oral, house CALL NOW 277-0636 includes wrist guards And she'll say, "Surely, the dueling banjos bother you or the 
telephone and written communica­Call Marty@ 271-1541 He's so big and burly." jerks nextdoor ... don't worry, they PLEASE 0 PLEASE 0 PLEASE tion skills, good interpersonal and 2 BDRM House. Wash/Dry And is you wake her up too early, won't be around at the rate they're please return the blue suede coat organizational skills; typing and Fireplace, Porch $520/mo. + utiL 2-0akhill Condos. She'll give your head a great big going ... some people never learn ... "accidentally" taken from the Junior computer skills. Able to work 15-20 Grad. student pre!. 232-6079 3-levels wllower walkout, 3 BAS, swirley Class Bash at Union Station on hours per week. 3 Baths -$99,900 Because she's not a very nice girly. The Friday, March 31. You don't want it We are always looking for dedicat­OAK HILL aprtmnt. FOR RENT 2 Brs, 2 Baths, spiral staircase Women's Lacrosse Team because it has holes in the pockets ed people to join our fast-paced, 2 1/2 BDRM. 2 BTH & garage -$78,500 Saturday and the lining is all shredded. It's exciting and motivated team for 219/273-6993 Each unit includes: fireplace, COME ONE, COME ALL 11 a.m. U of Chicago my only real coat!!! afternoon, evening and weekend appliances, pool & clubhouse GETNAKED AT THE 1 p.m. Wisconsin Call Isabelle x4717 to schedule its shifts. HOMES FOR RENT Coldwell Banker-277-8000 Jake Kline Field return. For further info or to obtain an appli­NEAR CAMPUS Ruth Ann Smith-288-8875 •••• BEAUX ARTS BALL ••••• It's FREEII 
cation please call: 232-2595 Stacy Cody LOSE WEIGHT FOR SUMMER! This Saturday at 9 is the last Beaux N
WANTED 

Manager, 2 BDRM AVAIL NOW $295 MO. 3 After 3 kids, I lost23 lbs., went from Arts Ball in the Architecture Building You, and the Amigos in NO, yup 219-272-4135. BDRM. NEXT FALL, NEAR CAM­size 9 to a 3 in 8 weeks, w/o as it is today. The wrecking ball will that is going to get ugly I NEED YOU! I NEED YOU! PUS.272-6306 diets/drugs/exercise. All-natural show up, join us for the D 
Looking for a ride to Knoxville, ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOY­products, easy, guaranteed! Kelly APACALYPSE '95 Tennessee for Easter Break. If MENT! EARN THOUSANDS THIS LIVE IN A GOOD NEIGHBOR­1-800-209-2150 Kidde, your going to or through, could I SUMMER IN CANNERIES, HOOD FURNISHED HOMES with the BIG EARL BAND Just because your done doesn't ride with you? PROCESSORS, ETC. NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT OFF CAMPUS NXT. YR? DECAF mean your done. And watch out Call Larry at 634-3597 if you can MALE/FEMALE. SCHOOL YEAR IDEAL FOR 3-8 FOR SALE-{)N. SIZE SET and dj Starvin' Marvin for that cider stuff, it'll get ya. help. Thanks. ROOM/BOARD/TRAVEL OFTEN STUDENTS 2773097 W/FRAME, 3 DRESSERS, SOFA, -An lllinios Farmer 
PROVIDED! GUIDE. GUARAN­COMP. DESK, DORM FRIDGE, Everyone is welcome, any kind of Female, grad. student, TEED SUCCESS! (919)929-4398 Professional gals at Castle Pt. need COFFEE/END TABLES, GAS couple, or no couple at aiL Advil before Asprin after, non-smoking, reliable roommate for ext A1082 roomies, no undergrads. 271-0801. GRILL, MORE CALL CHRIS @ Erin's gonna puke beautiful apartment with low rent 273-2070 Listening to brother's Laughter. (ex Studebaker guest house) for AA CRUISE SHIPS HIRING! EARN EUROPE $199 o/w 
FOR SALE
Summer 95 and year 95-96. Call BIG$$$+ FREE WORLD TRAVEL For Sale: CARIBBEAN/MEXICO 189 r/1 634-4403. (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII, '84 red cavalier If you can beat these prices start 
ETC.) SUMMER/PERMANENT, NO '90 red ford escort, new 93,000 miles your own damn airline! Parties today, Parties tomorrow, Ride to Duke for Easter. Call EXPER. NEC. GUIDE. (919)929· tires, good condition, minty AIR-TECH LTD. 212/219-7000 Nights filled with fun, Carolyn at272-7087. 4398 ext C1082. $4,000 634-4098 call Mike 277-2631 with best offer info@ aerotech.com Mornings with sorrow. 
------~----.-r-, '--~~~~~ 

Friday, April 7, 1995 The Observer· SPORTS page 15 
• THE MASTERS••• THE TRADITION CONTINUES 
Greatness portrayed by
Nicklaus one stroke back 
By BOB GREEN the fly at the 435-yard fifth 12th, dropped a 10-footer at 
past, present and future
Associated Press hole. the 14th and pitched to four 
AUGUSTA, Ga. 

Phil Mickelson and David Frost were tied for the lead to­day in the opening round of the Masters tournament, while Jack Nicklaus, seeking a record seventh title, was only one stroke back. 
Mickelson, the sensational 24-year-old left-hander, shot a 6-under-par 66 over the rain­s9ftened greens of the Augusta National Golf Club course. 
Frost matched Mickelson's 66 with a bogey-free round in the rain that ranged from drizzle to showers. 
The 55-year-old Nicklaus had an eagle-2 en route to a 67, and was tied for third with David Guilford of England. 
Nicklaus, whose last victory on the regular tour came in the 1986 Masters, highlighted his round with a 180-yard 5-iron shot that went into the cup on 
"That's 2 1/2 shots up on the field on that hole," he said. 
But he didn't gain ground at the par-5s, frequently the key to a good round on this course. Nicklaus played them even. 
His driving was at fault, he said. 
"I have to start driving the ball better," he said. "If I start playing the par-5s better, I could be in contention." 
Nicklaus had warmed up for the Masters with a playoff vic­tory in a Senior tournament in Arizona last weekend. 
"You can't be in contention on this course if you don't play the par-5s well, and you can't play the par-5s well if you don't drive well," Nicklaus said. 
While the eagle got him start­ed, he made his big move on the back nine. 
Nickalushit a 3-iron to 5 feet at the 10th, holed out from 18 feet on a downhill putt at the 

-·-··---·-··­

i-~-1-::-=---~-~:=::~--~----:-Jj.'-r:-~-­
:~.,~-------<.---:-..·--~~---•·j-· ·-1·----;-H ~~--'!.......,._ l~:--1-··-nRf}-..-1 -P·ir}AJ;~---l=tJ··
~-+-..1(--4-+... 

1__ i._......;~-_u-_.,__j__,l_X..........,~···"~,;.... :~---I­
I l · · I ' 
VOLLEYBALL 
TUESDAYS March 21 & April11, 18 & 25 Joyce Center 
8:00-11:00 PM 
Come by Yourself or Bring Your Friends! No Advance Sign-Ups or Established Teams Necessary 
631-6100 

feet at the 15th. 
Only a few players remained on the course when Nicklaus finished. 
Chip Beck and Mark O'Meara were another stroke back at 68, 4-under-par on the course that was eased by the daylong rains that took the fire out of the greens. 
"The golf course is very much different from the practice rounds and from what we ex­pected," Hale Irwin, who led a group at 69, said. 
"The greens are much more receptive. If the rains continue, I think the scoring will continue to go down." 
The rain softened and slowed the hard, slick greens that are the trademark of this event, making it easier for the players to hit their shots at the pins. 
Irwin, a three-time U.S. Open winner who is less than two months short of eligibility for the Senior Tour, was tied with Scott Hoch, David Edwards, Lee Janzen, former Masters winner Ian Woosnam of Wales and Wayne Grady of Australia. 
Mickelson, who had an eagle­3 at the 15th, was one ahead of the field going to the final hole, but he got his approach in a bunker and took a bogey. 
ByRON SIRAK 
Associated Press 
AUGUSTA, Ga. 
The story was in their faces. The glory was in their games. Jack Nicklaus, Phil Mickelson and Tiger Woods gave a glimpse of golfs greatness ­past, present and future -at the Masters on Thursday. 
With lines of age etched in his smiling, tanned face, Nicklaus, 55, fashioned yet another great round, a 5­under-par 67 that put him one stroke out of the first-round lead at Augusta National, tied with Corey Pavin and David Gilford of England. 
Boyish charm lighted the handsome face of Mickelson, 24, as he recounted a brilliant 66 that tied him for the lead with defending champion Jose Maria Olazabal and David Frost. 
And oozing from the impas­sive, teen-age gaze of Woods, the 19-year-old U.S. Amateur champion, was the calm that allowed him to make his bally­hooed Masters debut with an even-par 72. 
"I just kept on saying to my­self, 'The game hasn't changed. One shot at a time. Low scores wins,"' Woods said. "Every 
· ..TAKING THE 
·......... 

June LSAT? 
Come Take A FREE Practice Test And Attend An Informational Seminar 
Saturday, April 8th at 9;00am 
• Take a full length, proctored LSAT exam. 
1\Jesday. AprU 11th at 7:00pm 
• 
Receive a detailed score report that pinpoints our test-taking strengths and weaknesses. 

• 
Learn about the format and content ofthe LSAT, how it'$ used in the admissions process and valuable test-taking techniques that can help raise your LSAT scores. 


THE ~
PRINCETON _ REVIEW _ 
(800) 2-REVIEW 
The Princeton Review is not affiliated with Princeton University or ETS. 
~~N. e.sP~ ~ w t 
~ Spanish Mass 
domingo, 9 de Abril de 1995 
11:30 a.m. Stanford-Keenan Hall Chapel 
Celebrante Padre Patrick Neary, ,.s.,. 
Todos Estan lnvitados 
All Are Welcome 

(tMPUSMINI5TRY 

r-
time I step up on the first tee l get nervous. No matter what kind of tournament it it is, I get jitterbugs on the first tee." 
If he was nervous, he cer­tainly handled the hoopla very well with four birdies and four bogeys. Nicklaus, meanwhile, reminded all of how magnifi­cent he was at his best. 
He holed a 5-iron for an eagle 2 on No. 5 and drew huge galleries and thunderous applause in the far reaches of Amen Corner where, on this rainy day. the brilliant beauty of the dogwoods and azaleas in bloom where almost obscured by a garden of colorful umbrel­las as the thousands of fans huddled trying to stay dry. 
They were more than warmed by the four-birdie, no­bogey 32 
Nicklaus shot on the back nine. 
"I sort of gear my year to get started here," Micklaus said, sounding very much like he thinks he'll still be in the hunt on Sunday for the tournament he has won six times. "I guess maybe I point for this golf tour­nament." 
Mickelson gave a glimpse of the greatness predicted of him with a round in which he bat­tered the flags all day. 
"I didn't make any long putts except for No. 13," said Mickelson, who rolled in a 20­foot eagle putt there. 
His spectacular round includ­ed a pair of two-putt birdies, three 3-foot birdie putts and a 4-inch birdie putt. 
He bogeyed No. 11 and No. 18, missing the green both times. 
At 4-under-par 68, two strokes ofT the lead, were Mark O'Meara and Chip Beck. 
All took advantage of a de­fenseless Augusta National course. 
Rain came overnight and this was not the same hard, fast, fearsome course the players tried to tame in the practice rounds. 
The greens softened, and Augusta National was there to be had. And it was. 
Playing in anything from a drizzle to a hard shower, play­er after player battered par. 
Seven players were at 69, eight more at 70 and 10 at 71 on a soggy day in which par became a meaningless stan­dard. 
"They had the course exactly where they wanted it, and then the rain got them," said Davis Love, three strokes back at 69. "We knew the rain was com­ing. We knew the low scores where coming. What they need now is some wind and sun." 
Engagement Rings 10%-15% OFF! Official Wholesale Price List! 

S.A. Peck & Co. 
55 E. Washington, Chicago, IL 60602 For a Frtt 32-Pagt Color Catalog Toll·Frtt (800) 922-0090 FAX (312) 977-0248 /nltmtl CaJalogaJ blip: llwww.sapuk.comlsapuk 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories ot Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback Books in stock 

• 
Out-Of-Print Search Service . $1.00 Appraisals large and srnt111 


Open noon to aix Tueedry thr'lugh Sunday 
1027 E. Wayne South Band, IN 46617 (219) 1:'32-844~ 
' 

CINEMA AT THE SNITE FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 & 9:45 
page 16 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, April 7, 1995 
"Holly will make the team An integral part of the na­Manthei, playing in the and may end up starting for the tional team's training involves Olympics would be the culmina­
Dansby Manthei 
team," Petrucelli added. traveling overseas to compete tion of a long time dream. continued from page 24 continued from page 24 Petrucelli can make that in Europe. Portugal was the "Playing in the Olympics is 
claim noting the same at­site of their first trip as the U.S. something I wanted to do since 
have talked to some of my old teammates in the south and they're doing the same things. You just need to find the place where you fit in." 
While he may feel no outside pressure, he is working out and practicing for a reason. 
"I want to be a dominating player on defense," he admits. 
To become this dominating player he must get by some ob­stacles in his way. While play­ing linebacker in high school, he started his Irish career along the line at defensive end. Now he will have to learn an­other position, his final, as the coaching staff moved him in­side to defensive tackle. 
Also, he has to make up for some lost time. While he was expected to be a major contrib­utor this past season, he missed most of it with a nag­ging ankle injury. 
"Last year was really a wast­ed year for me," he explained. "I was injured a lot of the sea­son because of my ankle. So I'm setting big goals this year and trying to achieve them." 
The ankle injury is behind him, and so far he is beginning to look like the dominating player everyone thought he would be. 
midfielder with just three play­ers at that position. 
"They needed speed on the outside," Manthei added. "I was lucky to be in that position to help the team." 
After playing well at a camp in Phoenix in January, Manthei moved to a residential camp in Florida where she joined 23 of the best players in the United States to train for the World Cup. 
"Of those 24, I believe that 20 of them will go to Sweden to play for the national champi­onship," Petrucelli said. 
Right now, it appears as if Manthei will be one of those 20 after playing in all six of the in­ternational games, while start­ing in one of them. Currently, she is averaging about 20-30 minutes when she enters mid­way through the contests. 
Manthei also becomes the first Irish women's player to succeed this far with a full na­tional team. Sophomore Cindy Daws would also be involved with this year's team if it were not for her injury which she originally suffered last year with the national team. In ad­dition, freshman Kate Sobrero is part of the team as an alter­nate as she was in a pool of the top 30 players. 
tributes he first saw in her as a possible recruit. 
"What the national coaches see in her is an unlimited amount of potential," Petrucelli said. "Holly's strengths are more physical than anything else. Her speed, endurance and work ethic are really her strong points." 
Part of that potential lies in the fact that she is the second youngest member of the team. That inexperience at the na­tional level made the transition to the team difficult at first. 
"The pace of the game was hard to adjust in the begin­ning," Manthei noted. 
The MCC freshman of the year also admits to being a little uneasy in the first month. 
"I was a little nervous at first," Manthei said. "The play at the national level is definitely higher. The game is faster and people tackle harder." 
Manthei's championship met­tle has already started to rise above her early jitters as she is currently the first player com­ing off the bench. 
''I'm becoming more relaxed now," Manthei added. ''I'm not giving the ball up as much any­more which means I can start to work on other parts of my game." 

Wanted: Reporters, photographers, account executives, and editors. Join ,.he Observer Staff 
finished 2-2-1, losing to Denmark, while defeating Finland and Portugal. As the defending World Cup champs, the results of the national team were a little suprising. 
"We didn't do as well as ev­eryone expected us to," Manthei said. 
However. Manthei knows that the U.S. team will be in the hunt again to repeat. 
"When I first watched them, I thought there was no doubt that we couldn't win," Manthei added. 
Its back to Europe today as the national team leaves for France to compete in another tournament and a chance for Manthei to keep improving. 
"There's so much room for growth in Holly that she's going to keep getting better." Petrucelli added. 
''I've been getting quite a bit of playing time," the freshman said. ''I've been moving up a lot faster than I thought I would." 
If she continues moving up at her current pace, Manthei will be spending some time in Atlanta in the summer of 1996. The Olympic soccer team will be mostly comprised of this year's World Cup team. For I was a little kid," Manthei said. "It never seemed realistic be­fore, but now it is something I can be a part of." 
This would be a real accom­plishment considering the past history of the national team. 
"Its a hard group to break because they have been an es­tablished team for the past five years," Petrucelli said. "If I had to predict, I would say that by the time the Olympics come around, she will be starting for the team." 
No matter what happens dur­ing Manthei's whirlwind sum­mer, she will be back in the fall to help the Irish accomplish what they just missed doing last year. 
"Notre Dame is still her team," Petrucelli added. "Its a great opportunity and experi­ence for her, but she'd be the first one to say that this still her team." 
''I'm really looking forward to coming back," Manthei said. ''I'm getting better at certain things and hopefully it will help the team next year." 
In the meantime, however, she will be aspiring to put the United States on top of the world. 

h~ GR£A7 \YALL 

Voted 111 Oriental Restaurant 1991. 1992, and 1993 
Szechwan•Cantonese•Amencan Chinese Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 da):s 

Banquet roomo; 
Sunday Buffet Brunch-Every Sunday 

available fur 
$8.95 for Adults 

up to 200 
$3.95 for Children under 10 

(219) 272-7376 • 130 Oixieway S (US 31 in Roseland) at Randall s Inn South Bend. IN 


V;£:! 
, 
~1L$ IHIA~VAJ.F~JD) 
SATURDAY, APRIL 8 MoosE KRAusE STADIUM 

,

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-------------------------­
1 I 

Friday, April 7, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Gehrig chase continues 
By DAVID GINSBURG 
Assocaatcd Press 
SARASOTA, Fla. 

The photographers clicked their shut­ters in rapid-lire fashion, the TV cam­eras whirred and autograph seekers scrambled to get their pens ready. 
Cal Ripken had just emerged from the Baltimore Orioles' clubhouse, back in uniform for the first time in nearly eight months and eager to sharpen his skills before resuming his assault on Lou Gehrig's record streak of 2,130 consecu­tive games. 
Ripken's outdoor workout Thursday lasted only 30 minutes before a rain­shower forced the team indoors. But the media blitz continued a few hours later, when the durable shortstop sat down for the first of the inevitable dozens of news conferences he will participate in during this record-breaking season. 
If all goes as planned, Ripken will pass Gehrig's mark on Sept. 6 in Baltimore. Before then, he will be required to talk about The Streak until he no doubt becomes absolutely sick of the subject. 
"I wish I knew how to handle it. but I'm going to try to do the best I can at retaining my focus on baseball and try­ing to approach this season just like I've done every other season," he said. 
· .. 1 might handle it terribly, I might handle it OK. I don't know. I hope our team will win, and the whole focus will turn toward our team's chances of win­ning the pennant." 
Regardless of the Orioles fare in the AL East this season, the focus will be on Hipken, who has played in 2,009 con­secutive games since May 30, 1982. The streak was threatened by the baseball strike and the possibility of replacement games, but that is no longer a factor, so Hipken is now free to pursue a baseball record that once seemed unreachable. 
"It was a record I thought would never be broken," Orioles manager Phil Regan said. "For a guy to go that long without being sick, pulling a hamstring or breaking a finger -it's unbeliev­able." 
Gehrig missed two starts during his string and occasionally was removed from a game after assuring the streak would continue. Ripken, who has start­ed every game and missed just 148 innings, doesn't know all that much about the man whose record he is chas­ing. 
Ripken once felt compelled to learn more about Gehrig, but quickly aban­doned the idea. 
"I was afraid by knowing about him, it would spark an obsession that would change my approach," Ripken said. "So, although I'm curious, I have decided not to know so much about Lou. At some point, maybe when it's all over, I'll sit down and learn a little bit about him." 
Ripken apparently has a lot to learn, at one point saying of Gehrig, "I think he was a first baseman." 
Hipken, 34, said the streak is a prod­uct of his upbringing. His father, who dedicated several decades to the game of baseball as a player, coach and man­ager, instilled a win-at-all-costs attitude into his three sons. 
"I was raised with a work ethic and approach in that the object of team sports is to win. Do whatever it takes to win," he said. "It's important for you to rely on your teammates to make that happen, and therefore it was important for me to be counted on by my team­mates to be in the lineup every day. 
''I'm proud of the streak for the rea­son that my teammates can count on me to be in the lineup and hopefully do something during the course of the game to help us win. I come to the ball­park ready to play and wanting to play." 
Fire sale continues, Grissom traded to Braves 
By CHRIS SHERIDAN 
Associated Press 

WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. 
The Montreal Expos completed a purge of their three highest-paid players Thursday by trading speedy center field­er Marquis Grissom to the Atlanta Braves. 
In return, Montreal got outfielders Roberto Kelly, Tony Tarasco and minor league pitcher Esteban Yan. Atlanta will pay much of Kelly's 1994 salary of $3.4 million. 
"As I told John (Schuerholz, the Braves general manager) earlier today, I think this basically will bring a world championship to the Braves at some point," Expos general manager Kevin Malone said. "It definitely makes them a much better club." 
The deal capped two busy days of trading for the Expos, who dealt pitch­ers Ken Hill and John Wetteland on Wednesday as a midnight Friday dead­line neared to offer players salary arbi­tration. Montreal chose to trade the three rather than risk losing in arbitra­tion and being forced to pay salaries its says it can't afford. 
The Braves beat out the Florida Marlins and Boston Red Sox in the final bidding for Grissom, a leadoff hitter with power, speed and excellent defen­sive skills. 
"That was one of two areas where we feel we could have strengthened our­selves," Schuerholz said. 
Schuerholz and Malone completed the deal after Malone walked to the Braves' offices and sat down with Schuerholz. Atlanta and Montreal share Municipal Stadium in West Palm Beach during spring training and their two offices are a couple hundred yards apart. 
Montreal claims it lost $15 million because of the strike and has now jetti­soned its four highest-salaried players from 1994, when the Expos had the best record in baseball. 
In Grissom, Atlanta is getting a center fielder who hit .288 in 1994 with 11 homers, 45 HBis and 36 stolen bases. He will be the fourth player to roam center field for the Braves since 1993, follow­ing Otis Nixon, Deion Sanders and Kelly, who was acquired from Cincinnati in the middle of last season. 
"I didn't want to trade any players to Atlanta if given the choice," Malone said of his strongest rival in the NL East. "But the quality of players we got in return was much better than anything else out there." 
Kelly is expected to be Montreal's starting center fielder. He hit .293 for Atlanta and Cincinnati in 1994 with nine home runs, 43 RBis and 19 stolen bases. 
"I'm a little bit in shock right now. I wasn't expecting it," Kelly said. "This (Atlanta) is a pretty good team, but I've just got to look ahead right now." 
Tarasco, 24, played in 87 games last season and hit .273 with five homers and 19 RBis. He started only 18 games and led the Braves in pinch-hits. 
Yan, 20, was 11-12 with a 3.27 ERA and 121 strikeouts in 170 2-3 innings for Class A Macon last season. 
Atlanta still needs a relief pitcher to close games, but Schuerholz said the Braves will not acquire one this spring. 
"I don't think we're in position to add any more high-salaried players to our roster at this point. Our payroll will not be higher than it was last season," he said. 

FLIP SIDE PRESENTS: unt­es-tern -1ne ancingf Back by popular demand! THIS FRIDAY, APRIL 7! Bus leaves from library cicle at 6:00 pm. Be sure to eat dinner before coming! Cost wi{{ 6e $5.00 for students, $3.00 for !f{ip Side mem6ers! Ifinterestec£ ca[[9vlary at 4-4904 or Jolin 4-1410.  

-------.. ---· .. ---·--~----·~­
-............ -...-.--............................................................................................ •;...;.;.;. .................:;-.;...-;;;-;.;;.;~;: • ;-:;.-:;..;--;;.;;; ;~.; .. -1 
r 
I I I I 
I p11ge 18 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, April?, 1995 
• SAINT MARY's SoFTBAll 
Belles cannot shutout Hope 

By LORI GADDIS 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's softball team faced off with regional rival Hope College on Tuesday, in the hopes of taking both games of their home double header. Although the Belles started off impressively, win­ning the first game 3 to 2, Hope College was able to shut out the Belles by a score of 0 to 4 in the second game. 
Saint Mary's entered the games with a 10 and 6 record as well as a number 5 ranking in the Central Region Ranking poll. Hope college entered the gjl.mes 12 and 2 with a ranking of 2 in the poll. Junior Michelle Limb commented on Hope's ranking. 
"Knowing their rank only made us that much more in­tense," Limb said. "We were out for revenge since we split last year and we wanted both of these games bad." 
The Belles started out with that high level intensity in the first game, scoring three runs in the first inning. Junior pitch­er Maria Vogel helped her own cause by driving in the first run. Senior April Rhoades fol­lowed by singling, scoring the final two runs for the Belles. Limb went three for three at the plate, while Vogel led the defense, pitching a one-hitter for Saint Mary's. Coach Jan Travis attributes the success of the team to the high level of intensity that was maintained by the Belles. 
"The was the Saint Mary's team that we know can play softball," Travis said. "They showed up in full force." 
The second game started with the same level of intensity as the first game. The first inning started out with three consecu­tive outs, highlighted by a phe­nomenal diving catch from Limb. No runs were scored until the fourth inning, when, because of costly errors and a Hope hitting spree, Saint Mary's found themselves be­hind by two. 
"We started to fall into old habits," Coach Travis ex­plained. "We allowed the in­tensity to drop and somehow could not get our momentum back." 
The Belles found again that a slow hitting performance was a problem. 
The Belles will work to im­prove their record Friday, in a rescheduled double header against Manchester College on Saint Mary's campus at 3:30. Saturday, the Belles travel to Olivet College for a 1:00 double header. 

Freshman third baseman Andrea Arena shared her feel­ings about the back-to-hack games. 
• SAINT MARY'S TENNIS 

Cold forces match inside, Belles defeat Valpo 7-2 
By ANGELA OLSON other," Hrycko said. "Ability wise Sports Writer I don't think we should lose many 
The sun was shining, but Tuesday's surge of cold forced the Saint Mary's tennis team to host their dual meet against Valparaiso inside the Angela Athletic Facility. The Belles (6-7) came away with the win, beating Valpo 7-2. 
"It was disappointing that we had to play inside, but fortunatly we had the home court advan­tage and we were used to the playing surface," number three doubles player Meghan Magilligan said. 
The Belles swept doubles and were winners in four of six sin­gles matches. 
Two new doubles combinations and several changes were made in the singles lineup in yester­days meet. The new number one doubles team of Robin Hrycko and Kate Kozacik won 8-3. 
"We need to learn how each other plays and get used to each 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
CASTING AND ANGLING 
w 
Course includes four sessions 
which meet on Tuesd4ys Jrorn matches." 

The new number two tandem of Anne Underwood and Jen Brahler found themselves down 4-1, but came back and tied the score at seven all. 
"We knew we wanted to close it out," Brahler said, "so we played agg~.essivly and won the next two. 
Number three doubles players Kate Marhoefer and Megan Magilligan dropped only one game, giving them a 8-1 victory. 
Kozacik, the Belles number one singles player pulled off a 5-7, 6­3, 6-4 victory over Marie Lutz. Valpo came away with wins in both no. two and three singles. 
The remaining singles matches were won by the Belles. Brahler defeated Erika Urban 2-6, 6-0, 6­2 at number four, Hrycko beat Fiona Beebe 7-6, 7-5 at number five, and Angela Olsen defeated Kristen Nadasdy 6-3, 6-2 at num­
ber six. 
will be sold at low prices when finished. Also, free caps .~~rill 
.. ·• givenJo particip.an~~;1'?1!!:·p . ... . 

6-7~3Qpm.  The dates are April  ..;;,  lRlSli ()l.JTDpo~s  M~M~  
11.18, and 25.  Classes are  tJWBERS ·Th ere will be  
held in the JACC, Rolf, and  Iing trip  Friday ·  
campus lakes.  Equipment  
provided,·  .•  ·  
encouraged to  ·inQttll,etr··•o\'1  
The fee is $8 and the Class is  
open Jo  all.  Advanced  
registration at  
necess~ry:• Also,  
Last Seduction (R)  
1:30, 4:15, 7:30, 10:00  

9:00,1:30,4:30,7:15,9:30 
Hoop Dreams (PG-13) 
Goofy Movie (G)
1:00, 4:30, 8:00 
10:00, 12:15,2:15,4:15,6:30,8:30 
Legends of the Fall (R) 
Outbreak (R) 
1:15, 4:00, 7:00, 9:45 
10:00,1:15,4:00,7:00,10:00 
• SAINT MARY'S TRACK 

Another Saturday victory? 
By CAROLINE BLUM Larry Szczechowski said. Saint Mary's Sports Editor Szczechowski also expresses 
Twice is not nearly enough for the Saint Mary's track team. So Saturday, the team hopes to add yet another day to their list of victories. 
The last two Saturdays the Belles have competed in invitationals at Wabash and Manchester. Their perfor­mances were stellar, with sev­eral first, second, and third place finishes as well as a record-breaking performance by Kelly Medlin. 
This Saturday the Belles take the stage at the DePauw Invitational. 
The competition will be rough, but so are the Belles. 
"I don't really know what to expect at DePauw because we haven't played there before. The competition will engulf Division 3 teams, which is the division we belong to. All in all I expect us to do well, due to our steady improvement in each meet," head coach 
ly discuss race teams for rneets. Sweatshirts sale; 
Tommy Boy (PG-13) 
9:30, 12:00,2:45, 5:00, 7:30, 9:45 
Man of the House (PG) 
9:30, 11:45, 2:30, 5:15, 7:45 
Candyman II (R) 
10:00 
Major Payne (PG-13) 
9:00, 11:30, 2:00, 4:45, 7:00, 9:15 

his satisfaction with the team's hard work. His goal for Saturday, as he will tell the girls on the bus, will be to earn 40 points and take two first places. 
The first places can come from a number of individuals Saturday. In the field events, sophomores Paula Kivinen and Kelly Medlin will be watched, the sprint events will star Jill Jusick, and in the dis­tance events expect good performances from Michelle Wenner in the 1500M, and Erin Mellifont in the BOOM. 
''I'm really excited about the race. We're going to encounter some good compe­tition at DePauw, and I plan to use the meet to prepare for the Little State Meet the next weekend," said Mellifont. 
Mellifont is a sophomore from Holy Cross. Recently, she has been practicing with the Notre Dame women's track team. 
The DePauw Invitational will begin early Saturday and last throughout most of the afternoon. Good weather is predicted, and with good weather comes a Belles' victo­ry. 
Leaving town? Responsible professional 40-ish man employed in downtown South Bend looking to house sit for 3 months to one year. Let me ensure that your home is properly tended while you're away. My current home is being redone. Live alone. Have impeccable professional and personal references. Lifelong Michiana resident. Call (616) 699-5993. 

UPCOMING EVENTS 
MONDAY. APRIL 10, 1995 
ANTHONY BRYK 
UNIVERSllY OF CHICAGO 
RECENT LESSONS FROM CHICAGO SCHOOL REFORM 
4:15P.M. ROOM 124 CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Anthony S. BJYk IS Professo1 nf Educofion and Oirec:tor of the Center for School Im­provement ot the University of Chicago, and co-diredor of the Consortium on Chicago School Research. Anotable scholar of Cotholic edocotion, social datu ono~~s. and pubic school reform, he rec:eived on Ed 0. from Horvord Univer~ty. Or. BJYk's most rec:ent books ore Catholic Schools ond the Common Good ond Hierorchi<ol linear Models, with oforthcoming book on the Chicago School Reform Act. Or. Bryk is currenlly consultant to the General Superintendent for revi~ng research and evoluotion functions of the Chicago PubtK Schools. 
This inlerdis<iplinary series examines issues of edocotionol equily and of educalional excellence as lhey affect America's urban sdloob. Six visiling scholars will ex~ore such issues as developing l~eracy in urban sludents, new approaches lo school desegregation, lhe inlerrelationship of education and demo<racy, lhe relative effectiveness of urban Calholic and publi< S<hools, and the role of teachers in shaping moral development 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-------~~~--~--~-----­
Friday, April?, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
• SOFTBALL 
Irish split doubleheader against Spartans 
Defense keys victory in first 
game 
By NEIL ZENDER Sports Writer 
Why doesn't it get dark soon­er'? The Notre Dame softball team would have a reeord bet­ter than 21-9 if the sun would just set earlier. Then, the Irish wouldn't have to play the sec­ond bill of doubleheaders. Notre Dame continued their trend or winning the first game and losing the second in twin bills yesterday against Michigan State. The Irish won the first 5­3, but lost the second 4-0. 
"It's a combination of a lot of things," Coach Liz Miller said. "We're going to try and change things around and get into a different rhythm. I think we're just psyched out. We're not going out loose and aggressive." 
The Irish played a solid game in the first bill, a 5-3 win. Hobo-pitcher Terri Kobata im­proved her record to 11-1, but she gives credit to her fielders. 
...The defense is playing awe­some. I know that whatever l throw they're going to be be­hind me." 
Of course, the defense only has to be behind Kobata when the opposition actually hits her. She struck out eight batters in live innings of work against the Spartans. 
Kelly Nichols came on in relief for the final two innings, picking up her sixth save of the year, a single season team record. 
The Irish scored a run in the second, and then added two more in both the fourth and fifth frames. 
Jennifer Giampaolo was par­ticularly impressive, going 3-3, scoring a run and driving in another two. Jenna Knudson went 2-3 with an RBI, and Andy Keys scored two runs. 
Notre Dame faltered in the second bill, falling to the Spartans 4-0. Michigan State gained four unearned runs in the third inning, thanks to a pair of infield errors. 
"We didn't know how to stay loose and aggressive," Miller said. "We should have been out of the inning with no more than one run." 
Joy Battersby (8-5) went the distance, allowing nine hits. The Irish hitters had a difficult time facing Spartan ace Stacey Smith (6-2) who went the com­plete seven innings without giv­ing up a walk, and allowing only live hits. 
This weekend, Notre Dame returns home with a pair of doubleheaders. On Saturday, they host Wisconsin-Green Bay in doubleheader at 1 p.m. The Phoenix and their 8-14 record appear easy to overlook. Their ace pitcher, Kelly Blaha, has a 5-7 slate with a 4.18 E.R.A. The most recent stats from the Elias Sports Bureau of the Midwest, Notre Dame Sports Information, has the Irish with a team E.R.A. of 1.44. Terri .400 and hurler Kari Klier (9-2, Kobata has a 0.56 E.R.A. 1.54 E.R.A.). 
On Sunday, Notre Dame will One of the Irish's adjust­host 16-7 Loyola in another ments to their doubleheader doubleheader, also beginning at problems will be their starting 1 p.m. The Ramblers are led pitching. Miller plans on flip­by star outfielder Stephanie ping Kobata and Battersby in Trenerry, who is hitting above the rotation. Battersby will now start the first game, and Kobata will start the second. Miller used the technique last year in response to second game doldrums and it worked effectively. But only Saturday and Sunday will reveal if it works this season. 

M 0 N DAY ;tpri£17, 1995 
~Hiy/dwaJ.~J~J-.,.• .. ·········: -----·--------­
~ m,ke WG/.1, J/UU1li 1~~,t-··· 
mto.ltlm~ 
T U E S 0 A Y.  Jfprif18, 1995  F R I D A Y >tpri121, 1995 1-aiU.a "-jo:/r;KJui~--ntyld~ 'kl.e~~.&uuJz~JmoheJ=Mfh­ 
~~ J ~ liiin in tk~ tudt, ~~~--HW.-!Wiu,~ ~~lOme? :  
WEDNESDAY JCprill9, 1!195  SAT U R DAY >tpri£22,1995  




s u N D A y Jt.pri£23, 1995 ORTHODOX EASTER 
page 20 
• TENNIS 
Irish doubles unable to hold off no. 24 Wildcats 
By TIM SHERMAN 
~sociate Sports Editor 
A major key to success in sports is to peak at just the right time. Playing well for the major­ity of the season but falling short when it counts most is usually renders the season a failure. On the other end of the spectrum, going through a season in not­so-spectacular fashion can be made up for by putting it all to­gether in the clutch. 
The latter seems to be exactly what the 22th ranked Notre Dame women's tennis team was in the process of doing. Then they ran into the upset minded Wildcats of Northwestern. 
NU halted a three-match win­ning streak, in the process end­ing Irish hopes for an undefeated regional season. 
As has been the problem all season long, in close matches, the doubles play serves as the club's downfall. 
After splitting the six singles matches, Laura Scwab and Kelley Olson lost the deciding match in three sets. 3-6, 6-2, 6­
1. Coupled with the no. 3 loss of Molly Gavin and Erin Gowen, the Irish dropped to 11-8. 
The no. 24 Wildcats, who raised their record to a strong 10-4, earned two of the singles win in three-set fashion, with Joanna Feria knocking off Sherri Vitale and Mary Beth Novak defeating Gavin. 
On the plus side, no. 1 Wendy Crabtree bounced back from Wednesday's loss to post two wins. Doubles mate Holyn Lord likewise recorded to double, win­ning 7-6 (3), 6-4. 
The fourth Irish point was earned by sophomore Gowen, who slipped by Ana Gonzalez 6­7, 6-1. 7-5. 
The Irish entertain Drake at 2 pm on Sunday. 

Irish win a confidence booster 
ByB.J.HOOD 
Sports W ricer 
Most people don't like getting shots, but following the Notre Dame men's tennis team's 7-0 win over Northwestern on Sunday, Coach Bob Bayliss hopes his team received a shot in the arm. 
"It should help in terms of the confidence level," Bayliss said. 
John Jay O'Brien, Mike Sprouse, Ryan Simme, and Steve Flanigan all played very well on Sunday, and Jason Pun battled back from a third set 5­1 deficit to win. 
The doubles tandems contin­ued to dominate, as the number one team of Pun and Sprouse shut out a team that defeated the Irish last year. 
"Northwestern counts on the doubles point, but we didn't let them in the match," Bayliss said. 
On Saturday, the team plays at Boise State, a team higher ranked than the Irish. Boise State is coming off a victory over number twelve Kansas. Also, they have not been beaten at home for a couple of years. 
Ernesto Dias and Ryan Simme should have a great match up at number one sin­gles, and Remy Pop, Ken Baker, and Ben Davidson all should give the Irish troubles. 
Despite the fact that the Irish have been focusing on regional opponents such as Nortwestern and Michigan, Bayliss says the match is very important as the regional selections are in part 

_urn 
$2 ~~~gO&P 

APRIL 7TH & 8TH· CUSHING AU 
The Style Co., Inc... 

It's about being your own person; It's about making a statement; It's about doing something different... 
"Alternative Clothing for Today's Woman" 
Layaway and Alterations Available 
Hours
THE 
M-F 10-8
STYLE 
Sat 10-6

CO., INC. Sun 12-4 
687-9123 • 1912 S. I Ph in Niles 
In the newly remodeled Belle Plaza 2-1/2 Mi. North of State Line 
decided by national records and quality of competition. This will be an especially im­portant week since the Irish clash with Michigan on Wednesday. 
"We have a good team, "Bayliss said. "With a little luck we would have a really good national record. This is a very critical week for us." 
Despite the recent surge by the Irish, they have dropped to number twenty-four in the rankings. However, if they con­tinue to play very well against tough national competition such as Boise State, and Michigan in regional competi­tion, that will definitely be a shot in the arm for the Irish. 


SIN(~)~ If)Ll5 5() Yl~i\llS ()1..1) '1,() ))i\y 
:J{appy 13irtfu{ay J J J 


I I I I I I I 1 

Friday, April 7, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
• LACROSSE 
Harvard provides opportunity for Irish 

By DAVE TREACY 
Sports Writer 
It's time for the program to put up or shut up. 
This season, Notre Dame is 1­3 against top twenty-live oppo­nents. 
They had a tight game against 17th ranked Penn State, now 11th, and should have won. but couldn't put it away. 
Against #7 North Carolina, they played very competitive lqcrosse, but were shut down in crunch time and took the loss. 
Princeton, ranked #6 at the time and winner of last year's NCAA tournament. was held to a six point performance due to a strong defensive effort. Unfortunately, their defense limited the Irish to four goals en route to the victory. 
Finally, the Irish disposed of #18 Hobart with a solid second half performance. 
Now. the Irish face Harvard, ranked at #15, two spots ahead of Notre Dame. Harvard is a member of the Ivy League, a conference the Irish have never beaten in lacrosse. Harvard won the only meeting between the two teams 9-3 in 1990. They feature a dominant of­fensive unit that can overwhelm any opponent. 
With the most talented team 
~mo 
EJWr!! 
E:J~ 
Of!?Jl5 
'IIIIJhNI UUYWINMI'NT 
CAMPUS COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION 
TIRED OF NOT HAVING A VOICE ON CAMPUS ISSUES? STUDENT GOVERNMENT WANTS YOUR INPUT TO HELP IMPROVE COMMUNICATIONS ON CAMPUS. VOLUNTEER TO: 
-INCREASE THE ACCESSIBILITY TO STUDENT GOVERNMENT FOR THE STUDENTS -QUICKER RESPONSES TO STUDENT COMMENTS 
-ORGANIZE AN E-MAIL FORUM IN ORDER TO MORE ACCURATELY REPRESENT THE STUDENT BODY'S OPINION 
CONTACT: JEFF WARD 1 X 6283 



Pick up an application to be on the xecutive committee in the Student Union Board Office, 2nd Floor LaFortune. 
Applications due Thesday, Aprilll. 
in Irish history, it's time for Notre Dame to come away with a victory. It's time to prove that they won't crumble under pres­sure, and that they deserve a shot in the NCAA tournament this season. 
"We're relying on our defense to shut down Harvard. They score 15 points a game, and have scored more than 20 twice. But, we have confidence that our style of play and defen­sive effort will enable us to win the game," Coach Kevin Corrigan stated. 
The Irish have the defensive tools to stop Harvard. All­American defenseman Mike Iorio and company have consis­tently come to play. They shut down the weaker opponents, and have kept Notre Dame in every game this season. From longsticks to defensive middies, this is a very competent group. 
Freshman keeper Alex Cade has made a tremendous impact in his rookie season. Cade has started the last six games for the Irish, and has held his own against great programs like Princeton and North Carolina. Cade has a .634 save percent­age, averages over ten saves per game, and has a 6.40 goals against average. Cade has also helped Notre Dame's transition game with good outlet passes. 
Defensively, the Irish are 
appy 
Maddy, Mary andPW2A 
FRESHMEN: 
help coordinate next year's 
SOPtlOt\OQf LllfRflQY 
ffSTIVft.. 
ready. 

The question is, which offen­sive team is going to show up? The cohesive squad that scored 14 against Penn State and 10 against Hobart. or the indeci­sive group that was limited to a seven goal performance against perennial doormat Butler? 
"Our offense isn't struggling," Corrigan asserted. "We're ask­ing them to do more than score points. We're asking them to control the ball and limit the other team's opportunities to score." 
The offense must perform at a high level against Harvard. 
The Crimson are too strong a team to rely on the defense to control the game. Irish shots must find the back of the net. 
"We've been working on our shooting for the past couple of weeks. We're trying to be more consistent, and we're putting in the effort," said junior attack­man Brian Gilfillan. 
Turnovers must be kept to a minimum. Performers like Randy Colley and Will Sutton must raise their play from the low-octane Butler game back to the high level previously dis­played, and other attackmen need to step up and contribute. 
All in all, this is the defense's game to win. "This game is about their great team offense against our great team de­fense," Corrigan concluded. 
The Irish have a major advantage in this game. Beautiful Moose Krause stadi­um has been kind to the pro­gram. giving Notre Dame a 14­1 record over the past three years at home. 
It's time to prove why Notre Dame lacrosse should be con­sidered a program to be reck­oned with. It's time to win one against the Ivy League. This Saturday at 2 p.m.. it's time to put Harvard in its place. 

r 
page 22 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, April?, 1995 
• BASEBAll 

Irish declare Falcon hunting season open 
Six home-runs lead Irish over Bowling Green 
By MEGAN McGRATH Sports Writer 
Its an old cliche that revenge is sweet. 
But the sports world loves old cliches, so therefore the Notre Dame baseball team's 17-8 vic­tory at Bowling Green Thursday was one of the sweetest wins of the year. 
The Falcons ruined the Irish homfl opener last week by eak­ing out a 5-4 win. 
After yesterday's suspended game with Chicago State, head coach Paul Mainieri was frus­trated by the team's lack of suc­cess on offense. 
"We had some guys that real­ly hit the ball a ton," Mainieri said. "They made some good plays and prevented a blow­out." 
Bowling Green was unable to do the same, probably because many of the Notre Dame hits went out of Steller Field. 
The Irish won the home run derby, blasting six dingers to the Falcons three. Craig DeSensi, Ryan Topham and 

George  Restovich  each  
slammed two.  
Topham struck first.  DeSensi  

was hit by an Andy Smith offer­ing to open the game. Scott 
• TRACK 
Sollmann followed with a sin­gle, and a Mike Amrhein sacri­fice fly scored DeSensi. Topham was next and his ninth shot of the year cleared the bases. 
But Notre Dame saw its 3-0 lead evaporate in the next in­ning when starter Darin Schmalz struggled. He opened the inning by giving up three consecutive hits, including an RBI double by Donny Schone. Brian Cannon recorded the first out of the inning on an RBI grounder, but Schmalz would give up another RBI double to Tony Gill and a run-scoring sin­gle by Eddie Standifer. Mike Combs finished the Falcon's scoring in the second with an RBI single. 
The Irish responded in the next frame. DeSensi drew a walk and Sollmann followed with a single. Amrhein singled to score DeSensi, and Sollmann. Amrhein would score on Topham's second homer. 
After getting J.J. Brock to strike out, Smith would sur­render his third long-ball of the day to Restovich. Gus Ornstein drove in Rowan Richards, who had been hit by a pitch, for the sixth run of the inning. 
Notre Dame pounded out 16 
hits, including nine for extra 
bases. Six Irish starters had 
multiple hits. 
Topham led the offensive pro­
duction, with a double to go 
along with his homers. He 
drove in five runs, bringing his team leading total to 44. His ten home runs top the squad. 
DeSensi continues to shine in the lead-off spot. The senior captain was 2-4 with four RBI and four runs scored. Sollmann was 3-5 with a triple and four runs scored, and Restovich was 3-5 with a double in addition to two homers. 


Freshman Justin Gleichowski relieved Schmalz after the sec­ond. He earned his first colle­giate win by going seven in­nings and surrendering seven hits and three runs. Gleichowski had previously pitched only one-and-two-thirds innings. 
Notre Dame will need to save some of their offense for a four­game weekend series with MCC rival Wisconsin-Milwaukee. The Irish begin the set today at 5 p.m. at Frank Eck Stadium. Saturday's doubleheader beings at noon, and the series ends Sunday with a single game at noon . 


o /I I, 1 t 1 
l 
l 

Friday, April 7, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM MIKE PETERS CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 

BILL WATTERSON

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
'IOJR Dt.N\fl,L \F ~'( \/\CI\\1.\1\00D IS LOWE.R\1'-\G M'i SELf·ESIITM .' 

I .. j 
i 
I 
l 
I 
DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
r---------------------,or---------------------~ TRY Tl-\15 UTTLE. TRICK ~ 0 ANYTIME YOU WANT ~ IT'S TOTALLY 50f"\ETI-IlNG YOUR WAY) ~ UNVERIFIABLE.. YOU'RE. A SIMPLY REFER TO YOUR ~ u PEOPLE WILL FUNNY CEO BY HI5 Fif\ST NAI"\E ! FEAR YOU AND LITTLE AND 5A'< 1-\£ GAVE YOU ~ DO A5 YOU DOG. DlR.ECTIONS DURING ~ SA'< YOU'LL I 



CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 29 Debutante, for 51 Kind of brain 
one 52 Road map abbr. 30 # 1 song for the 1 Unembellished 53 0utput9 Breakfast cereal 
Association,

pioneer 54 With
1967 15 This could have 
56 Go--­
31 Part of been fixed 58 Health club
Cousteau's employee
16 Farmhand world 33 Candy 60 Force out
17 Rude 35 Beat it 61 Departures
18 Bring about 36 Beat it 62 Brews
19 Words with hole 37 Kind of radio 63Tie
or two program
20 Very unpopular 
40 Brunei's island 

DOWN
22 Actor Chaney 
43 Intimate center 23 Bad-mouth 1 Cuttlefish kin
44 Representation 24 Scavenger hunt 46 Cobras 2 Bluefins participant 
48 Over 3Comeback 26 Market 
49 Golf club 4Radio­27 Son of Adam feature controlled aerial bomb 5British-­ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 6 Alphabet trio 7 Impetuous one 8 Pinches 
9Colonial Puzzle by Rich Norris newsman 
30Haveon 43 Makes an 50 Uncomplicated10 Proceed 32 Calamine lotion, unannounced . 53 Kennel sound 
11 Steno's need entrance, w1th "1n"
e.g. 

12 Sumptuous 45 Settled 55 Engage 
.::....,:,t..:~ 34 Treat unfairly ..:...+-::;+:.,:~ 13 Supports, in a 47 Most prudent 57 .Menlo Park 37 Circumstances
way 49 Removes, in a monogram 381rate 
way 59 Mrs., in Madrid~~~~·· 14 Up-to-date
21 Actress Harper 39 Lake Victoria ~~~~.:..f..'-.< outlet ~=+=-~~~~ 25 Tropical resin 
40Chains Get answers to any three clues~~F-+~ 26 Congress site of 
1814-15 41 Champion by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­42 The briny 5656 (75¢ each minute). 
: Friday & Saturday, April 7 & 8 
:FORREST GUMP 
: 8:00 & 10:30 PM • Admission: $2
•
• Cushing
'······················ 
: COMING UP: 
:Ben and Jerry 


"...and this Is Mlney, and this Is Mo." 
;II OF INTEREST !f:t 
<tkA, MockLSAT will be held in Cushing Auditorium on 
~atur(}ay. AprilS, from 8:30am to 12:30pm. Sign up for · · ~~e. Mock LSAT is in :1.01 O'Shaugnessey. 
;,~:< J~~~'flh. Club elections .are co~ing up: Any?ne
wb.o would UkQ to run for President, Vtce Prestdent, Sec­retarY, or Treasurer should call Uliana at 634-2929 be­tc,n:e this Saturday, April 8. 
cwt. · 
. SOUTH DINING HALL NORTH DINING HALL 4:· Shrimp Poppers Spanish Rice with Beans §J Vegetables Marinara Tuna Patty Melt w~.Tuna Patty Melt Shrimp Creole 
\;f;: . ". •..··.t M::a rv"sx..:::· 
Q...U..J -, ~t>· 
Lookin8 for desi8n experience? The Observer is now acceptin8 applications for the paid position of Desi8n Editor. Call Jackie Moser 
.. at 631-5303 
-

:  Tuesday, April 11  
:  7:30 PM @ Stepan Center  
:  Tickets available in LaFortune  

.. .. .. '. 11' ........... .., .................... ~ .......................... ., .................................... ·------·----------.....____....... _ •. ---..... -----•• 
.-----------~~·.''' 
page 24 Friday, April 7,1995 
' 

SPORTS 



I 

eac 1n 


Freshman Holly Manthei sparked Notre Dame in their 
drive for an NCM Championship. Now her sights are 
set on winning a World Cup for the United States. ByJOE VILLINSKI Assistant Sports Editor· 
Last fall, Holly Manthei almost reached the pinnacle of her colle­giate career as the Irish barely missed being on top of the NCAA. 
This summer, the top of the world defines the pinnacle she hopes to rise to. 
One of the many stars on last year's NCAA runner-up women's soccer team is currently training with the United States national team in northern Florida for the World Cup which takes place in Sweden in June. 
In order to train, the freshman from Burnsville, Minnesota has taken this semester off and expects to be back in uniform for the Irish in the fall. 
"I was starting to like school and it was tough for me to leave," Manthei said. "However, this opportunity is a once in a lifetime thing and I couldn't pass it up." 
"Basically what she's doing is that she has a full time job at soccer," women's head soccer coach Chris Petrucelli said. "She's working six or seven hours a day on her game along with her teammates." 
Ironically, Manthei's oppor­tunity to join the national team came about through North
"What the national coaches see in her is 
Carolina and former national an unlimited amount ofpotential. Her team coach Anson Dorrance. Dorrance, impressed by
speed, endurance and work ethic are 
Manthei's play in the two games
really her strong points. " the Irish had with the Tar Heels last year, recommended her to
-Irish coach Chris Petrucelli 
current national team coach on Holly Manthei Tony Dicicco. After Dicicco saw 

.-~~ 
~""~ 
SOCCER 
Photos by The Observer/Michael Hungeling 

Holly's performance at the final four, the wheels were set in "The play at the motion. 
"I was pretty shocked when I national level is first heard about being on the 
definitely higher.

team," Manthei recalls. "They felt like they had a real The game is faster need at Holly's position," 
and people tackle

Petrucelli added. Manthei fit the bill perfectly as harder." the team lacked depth at outside 
-Holly Manthei 

see MANTHEI I page 16 
Dansby good at turning heads 
Sophomore big-hitting his way into the starting lineup 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT 
would lead them back to the promised 
Assistant Sports Editor land. Back to another National &&--... Championship. 
Eric Curry and John Copeland. Oh, how disappointing it must have During the early 1990s they were con­been for them when Melvin Dansby, sidered the two most dominating de­that young linebacker, decided to sign fensive linemen in the country, and in with Notre Dame. 1992 they led Alabama to the National While the schools have changed, his Championship. Even with their gradu­potential has not. And with his talent ation, the Crimson Tide believed their along the defensive line, the Irish hope days of a dominating defense were just '9)to win another title. 
beginning. With the graduations of Oliver Over in Birmingham, Alabama was a Gibson, Brian Hamilton and Germaine
Football 
young linebacker that was going to be Holden, Dansby will be expected to their next great defensive lineman. As a first step in and perform right away. Yet, even with team selection by USA Today and an ESPN All­this pressure and the pressure he arrived with,
-
American, he was regarded by many as one of he is cool and confident. the top high school players in the country. He "I don't feel any pressure," he calmly said. "I would be the Tide's new hero, their Moses who see DANSBY I page 16 


Friday, April 7 

Saturday, April 8 Sunday, April 9 
Monday, April 10 
NO Baseball vs. Wisconsin­

NO Softball vs. Wisconsin-Green NO Softball vs. Loyola 1p.m. Milwaukee 5p.m. (thru Sunday) 
Bay lp.m. NO Women's Tennis vs. Drake 
Go out to the courts and view 
NO Track at The Dogwood 

SMC Track at Little State Meet at 2p.m. 
the world's largest 5-on-5 basketball 
Invitational (thru Sunday) 

tournament: Bookstore Basketball SMC Softball at Olivet College I p.m. 
IUPU-1 Bookstore Basketball 







