~ -~ ~----~-­


Thursday, January 26, 1995• Vol. XXVI No. 73 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• STUDENT SENATE
NO provides 'total package' 
By TIMOTHY GREEN 
Cable referendu01 
News Writer 
Continuing the commitment to educational excellence in the 
added to elections face of rising costs and affirm­ing the Catholic nature of the 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE the students' opinion, and to let University were the main Assistant News Editor the students know that it (the themes addressed by University idea of having cable TV in President Father Edward A referendum for cable ac­dorm rooms) wouldn't die." Malloy last night at St. Ed­cess in dorm rooms will be in­Once the results from the ref­ward's flail. cluded on the ballots for Stu­erendum are in, Hungeling 
The lecture emphasized the dent Body President and Vice said, they will be presented to progress that Notre Dame itself President, according to a pro­the administration as a follow has made to enhance the edu­posal which was unanimously up to the Student Government's cation that it offers, so that stu­passed at last night's Student Board of Trustees Report on dents will be truly prepared to Senate meeting. cable television that was pub­face the world upon gradua­"We are trying to determine lished on September 29, 1994. tion. "I believe that a Notre if students would be willing to In the report, the results of the Dame education is even better pay an estimated $100.00 per Student Government Cable prepared than ever to give you year to have cable TV access in Television Survey that was a head start when it comes to each dorm room," Student taken earlier this year were all of the challenges you will Body President David printed. Of the students who face in the future." Hungeling said. responded, 85.4% said they A large, supportive faculty, According to Hungeling, if ca­would like to have cable TV ac­multiple research opportuni­ble is allowed in dorm rooms, cess in their dorm rooms, and ties, and modern facilities were there would be an approximate 58.2% said they would be will­listed as some of the factors $50.00 set fee per semester ing to pay $15 to $20 a month which contribute to the in­charged to every on-campus per room for cable TV access. creased quality of Notre Dame student. Students would not be In response to these statistics, today, and are evidence of the charged by room, due to the Hungeling pointed out that the University's commitment to varying number of residents in current estimated fee is Jess continually improve and grow. The Observer/Mark Alexlon each dorm room. than what these students origi­
One major aspect of the "total University President Father Edward Malloy gave a talk on the value of According to a draft of the nally responded to. package" of the Notre Dame a Notre Dame education last night in St. Edward's Hall. referendum which was in­According to Hungeling, Vice education is the on-campus res­cluded in the proposal voted on President of Student Affairs Pa­
avoidance of freshman singles, lasting benefits of a Notre at the meeting, the referendum tricia O'Hara is re-examiningidence hall life, according to so that students become able to Dame education. 
Malloy. Father Malloy praised will be "used by Student Gov­the idea of having cable televi­
live with and learn from others, As a Catholic University Notre ernment to gauge student sup­sion in dorm rooms. "It is backthe current campus "stay-hall" skills that will carry over into Dame is capable of providing a port either for or against cable as an issue," Hungeling said. 
residence system as a true the rest of their lives. model of community develop-television access." "If there is strong supportcommunity-building endeavor, Father Malloy recalled from ment and spiritual formation. 
According to Hungeling, the we'll be in a better arguing po­
designed to support campus his own experiences with alum-Father Malloy affirmed the Uni­unity and provide educational ni clubs across the country that versity's Catholic character as a reason for the referendum on sition. The more students re­
the presidential ballot is "to spond, the better our argumentsupport. the friendships generated crucial factor in its success as a 
To that end, there are many continue to keep cable as an is­
through the residence hall life policies in effect, such as the are some of the best and most sue, to give the administration 
see MALLOY/ page 4 see SENATE/ page 6 
Freshmen differ Alcohol dependency not 'fun' 
By MELISSA HARRAKA 

from national trends 
News Writer 

By EDWARD IMBUS percent identified themselves 
"Fun, Dumb and Dumber; A
News Writer as liberal (25 percent being the 
Look at Men, Women and Alco­
national average). 

hol," a lecture on how to
Although the vast majority of Both parties lost out in the 
achieve what one wants out of
first year students entering last survey, through, as a majority 
their college experience without 
year were found to be less ac­53 percent of students overall 
endangering themselves, was
tive in activities ranging from and 44 percent of freshmen 
presented last night in DeBar­
politics to religion than in years here described themselves as 
tolo by David Leschke-Hell­
past, freshmen at Notre Dame "middle-of-the-roaders," drop­
strom, a speaker from Real
broke from the trend, engaging ping party identity lower than 
World Productions in Min·
in various and more activities last year. 
neapolis. The lecture was
with enthusiasm. As expected, Notre Dame 
sponsored by the Notre Dame
A survey sponsored by the freshmen have been more in­
BACCHUS/GAMMA Peer Edu­
American Council on Education volved in religious and com­
cation Network. 

found that 57 percent of Notre munity service activities than 
Leschke-Hellstrom opened his 
Dame freshmen consider their peers who participated 
presentation by handing out
"keeping up with political af­from 461 institutions. More 
pencils and post-its to the stu­
fairs" important, nearly double than 97 percent attended a re­
dents in the audience and ask­
the 32 percent nationwide av­ligious service in the past year, 
ing them to remember the first
erage. Thirty percent of Notre contrasting from 87 percent 
time they had ever used alcohol 
Dame students surveyed said nationally, and 93 percent of 
to the extent that they knew it
they had discussed politics in Notre Dame students surveyed 
was affecting them. He told
the past year; only 16 percent volunteered for some sort of 
students to write down how old 
nationwide had done so. service projects. 
they were at the time, who they 
Both were record lows in the Mixing service with politics, 
were with, what the occasion
history of the 29 year old, 44 percent of first year stu­think people want most out of A second list Leschke-Hell­
was, and what they remember
UCLA-based survey of 237,777 dents at Notre Dame said they their experience at Notre strom asked his audience to 
most about it. Leschke-Hell­
entering students. planned to become community Dame. "Our job is to get what make was of the things people 
strom then told his audience to
In consideration of the sharp leaders, while only 31 percent we want, and if we can get that want and/or get out of alcohol 
mingle with each other for five
upheaval in national politics in overall had the same goal. without getting burt, that's use. Students responded with
minutes while wearing their
1994, "The sharp drop (in in­Scholastically, sharp differ­golden," Leschke-Hellstrom "security, confidence, a buzz,
post-its.

terest) during the election year ences were found between said. relaxation; it's easier to social­
After asking a few volunteers
was remarkable," said Alexan­Notre Dame's new class and The list devised by the stu­ize and dance." 
to read their post-its to the rest
der Astin, director of the sur­other freshmen. Seventy-one dents consisted of "money and "Alcohol is a drug that works.
of the audience, Leschke-Hell­
vey and professor of higher percent at Notre Dame expect jobs," "friendships," "acade­It gives people what they want. 
strom discussed the similarities
education at UCLA. to earn a B average, compared mics," "fun," and "relation­But we have to make sure it is 
among the stories heard. He
As has been the case for to 46 percent nationally, and ships." "Sometimes people will giving people what they want,
pointed out that in almost every 
many years, Notre Dame fresh­87 percent expected their col­use short-cuts to get these because sometimes it has side
situation, people who drink are
men tend more towards the po­lege experience to be satisfy· things. Sometimes this Is a effects. It helps people go from
with friends or family and they
litical right than their counter­ing, much higher than the 4 7 great thing, sometimes it's not fun to dumb to dumber,"
are able to have fun up until a
parts overall. 39 percent are percent nationally. so great. That's the difference Leschke-Hellstrom said. 
certain point. 

conservative (compared to 22 between fun and dumb,"
Leschke-Hellstrom then had
percent nationally), and 17 Leschke-Hellstrom explained. 
see STATS/ page 4 the students list what they see ALCOHOL/ page 4 


page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, January 26, 1995 
• INSJD£ COLUMN 
When playing 
the game just 



isn't worth it 

In little league, my teammates voted for me to play in the all-star game. In the game, the coach played me for four-innings in right field before bringing in his son to pinch hit for me with the bases loaded. I wanted to contribute Tom Lillig and score the go-ahead Marketing Director 


run for my team, but all I could do was sit down on the bench and cheer on my teammate. I still feel cheated out of an incredible opportunity. Recently, I was reminded of such feelings when I found out about the scandal surrounding "Design The Shirt" contest. 
Most scandals in any form of competition take place out of an obsessive or greedy desire to win money or prestige. This was the case with Ben Johnson's steroid use in the 1988 Summer Olympics. Unlike the above example of scheming and fixing to accentuate or guarantee success, the winning artist of "The Shirt" competition had earned his victo­ry and did not violate any of the rules, nor were the judges unethical in their decision­making. However, it was after a winner was selected that the injustice commenced. 
The winner of this year's "Design The Shirt" contest is a senior·design major who plans to dedicate his career to his artistic abil­ities. He wanted to design "The Shirt" so he could gain some exposure and also so he could give the student body and Notre Dame fans a shirt with high quality artwork. 
He spent several hours thinking of ideas and themes, consulting fellow students and profes­sors, paging through old photographs at the University Archives, and sketching dozens of drafts before he thought his project was wor­thy of being "The Shirt" and worthy of attach­ing his name to it. 
He was notified he won the contest about a week ago by the student coordinator of the event. In the same conversation, he was fur­ther notified that his shirt design had been completely altered. He felt cheated and insulted because his artistic integrity had been challenged. Without his knowledge or input, the central theme and slogan of "The Shirt" had been changed entirely, other illus­trations had been inserted throughout the design, and the only remaining images from the original shirt had been re-drawn by the student coordinator. The shirt was no longer the vision of the winner. 
The winner has accepted the fact that despite winning the contest, his design is not what the coordinators wanted in terms of a theme. He offered his additional services and input in the new design but they were rejected by the student coordinator. Without any fur­ther artistic role in the process, the winner asked that the re-drawn images be left out of the design and his name not be associated with the contest. 
Why have a contest to "design The Shirt" if the winner's work is not used as the center­piece? In future years, if the coordinators have a conceptualized design or theme for "The Shirt" they should have a contest to determine who the artist will be, instead of misleading contestants into thinking that they would be able to actually "design The Shirt." 
I realize that all the people involved with 
"The Shirt" have put a great deal of time and 
effort into this important, charitable project. 
However, it is not fair to pinch-hit for the win­
ner of the contest with the bases loaded. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TOOAY'S STAFF  
News  Lab Tech  
Nancy Durin  Nicky Batill  
Ethan Hayward  Accent  
Viewpoint  Patty Carson  
Carolyn Wilkens  Mary Good  
Mike O'Hara  Sports  
Production  Tom Schlidt  
Heather Gibson  Graphics  
Kenya Johnson  Tom Roland  


The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. Nl reproduction rights are reserved. 
• Wm~w AfA GLANCE 

Downed'missile' turns out to be weather research rocket 
MOSCOW 
It's a missile! It's been shot down by the Russians! It's ... all a mistake? Yep. An erroneous report that Russian forces had shot down a missile launched from north­ern Europe had governments around the world and their militaries asking ques­tions Wednesday. The "missile" turned out to be a NASA-funded rocket that aimed to study the Northern Lights. The Norwegians launched it successfully with­in their own territory after informing the Russian government. It was not shot down. The Interfax news agency later acknowledged that its report was wrong. Vyacheslav Terekhov, deputy director of the agency, blamed the mistake on false information from a high-ranking military source. Following the initial urgent report, Russian government and military officials said they knew nothing about a missile shootdown. But at a time when Russia's military is embroiled in a bloody 
Speaker's book deal violates rules 
WASHINGTON 
A political rival of Speaker Newt Gingrich, in a draft copy of an amended ethics complaint, contends that Gingrich's book deal with a Rupert Murdoch company vio­lates House rules. The draft complaint, obtained Wednesday, alleged that the deal violates rules dealing with potential conflicts of interest, limits on outside com­pensation and a requirement that House members be full­time legislators. Former Democratic Rep. Ben Jones said he will file the amended complaint Thursday with the House ethics committee. Jones, whose original filing con­tended that Gingrich's college course violated House rules, was defeated by the speaker last November. While Jones announced previously he would file the amended complaint, his action will place both the book deal and the college course before the newly named Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. The amended complaint also contended that Gingrich's literary agent worked with Murdoch's publishing house, HarperCollins, in "an unorthodox bidding war ... designed to drive up the price without genuine competition." Gingrich originally signed for a $4.5 million advance for the two-book deal with HarperCollins, but gave up the advance under pressure. Instead, he accepted a $1 advance and a royalty agree­ment based on actual book sales. Gingrich agreed to write one book and provide commentary in another. 
Shepherd retrieves human legs 
ANTIOCH, Ill. 
A German shepherd trotted home one day with a human leg, then showed up a few days later with another one. "There is no doubt we are dealing with a homicide," sheriffs Lt. Chester lwan said Tuesday. The dog, named Friendly, brought home a left leg Jan. 16 and a right leg Saturday. Both were sawed off at midthigh, and the feet were severed. Investigators believe they are from the same body, and think Friendly may have found them at the same time and buried one before bringing it home later. Authorities found nothing when they searched the rural area around the owner's home northwest of Chicago. Now they're watching Friendly, hoping she'll lead them to the victim. Police plan to put a radio trans­mitter on her collar and try to track her without distract­ing her. The victim was believed to be a woman between 16 and 25 years of age and of medium build. Investigators are conferring with police in Minneapolis about an unsolved case involving body parts severed with a saw that were discovered in 1993 and 1994, Iwan said. While about 300 miles apart, both locations were within a few miles of Interstate 94. 

•Thursday, Jan. 26 

Accu-Weather'"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Jan. 26. 
FRONTS: 
~~ ............... 

COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1995 Accu·Weather, Inc. Pressure ~ 
H L m ESl [1}] 0 !Z3§ ¢ L-.!.U 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY VIa Associated Pross;. 
Atlanta 47 29 Dallas 59 46 New Orleans 56 34 Ba~imore 41 32 Denver 55 21 New York 39 35 Boston 34 27 Los Angeles 62 54 Philadelphia 40 34 Chicago 25 6 Miami 67 49 Phoenix 70 50 Columbus 25 3 Minneapolis 25 9 St. Louis 35 24 
war in Chechnya, the report set off 
widespread alarms. Spokesmen for 
NATO, the Pentagon, the Allied military 
command in Europe, several countries 
and President Clinton immediately said 
they were looking into the report. Later, 
a White House spokesman called it 
"totally unsubstantiated." In Oslo, the 
Norwegian Defense Ministry said a 
research rocket was fired from ·the civil­
ian Andoya Rocket Range on Andoya, an 
island off northern Norway, but with a 
trajectory to the northwest -away 
from Russia. It was reported to have 
landed in the Arctic Ocean near 
Norway's Svalbard Islands. The four­
stage research rocket, Black Brent XXII, 
was part of a NASA project and carried 
instruments from American and 
Norwegian universities to study the 
Northern Lights. The Andoya range said 
L__~"c"":bdil the rocket landed some 1,000 miles 
AP 

away from Russia. 
Court gives baby to natural father 
SPRINGFIELD, Ill. 
For the second time, the Illinois Supreme Court on Wednesday gave custody of Baby Richard to his biological father, taking the child from the adoptive parents who have raised him all of his 3 1/2 years. Last summer, the justices invalidated the adoption by the suburban Chicago couple in a ruling that caused a public uproar. Gov. Jim Edgar characterized the court as smug and arrogant, and the Legislature passed a law to allow the courts to consid­er a child's best interests when an adoption fails. The rul­ing came just hours after the biological father asked the court to ignore the new law and award him custody of the child he has never seen. During a hearing Wednesday morning, an attorney for the adoptive parents, identified only as John and Jane Doe, asked the court to consider the best interest of the child in awarding custody. But Loren Heinemann, the attorney for Otakar Kirchner, argued that the new law does not apply. He said Kirchner had never given up his paternal rights and he began fight­ing for his son before the boy was 2 months old. Richard was put up for adoption by his mother; Daniela Janikova, who believed Kirchner had abandoned her. Kirchner was in his native Czechoslovakia at the time of Richard's birth and when he returned to this country was led to believe the boy had died. The couple have since married. 
Columbus woman sues post office 
COLUMBUS, Ind. 
Pigeons have landed the post office in court. Mary 
Holland has filed a lawsuit claiming pigeon droppings 
made the Columbus post office sidewalk so slippery that 
she felL and suffered neck, back, shoulder, wrist, hip and 
ankle injuries. Holland, 66, said she can longer work as a 
baby sitter and nursing companion. "She just slid around 
in it and eventually fell," said her lawyer, Shari Kinnaird. 
Her federal court lawsuit was filed Dec. 30 after her claim 
for compensation was denied by the Postal Service. She is 
seeking $75,000. Washing the sidewalks only made them 
more slippery, and the post office did not find a perma­
nent solution until after Holland's initial claim in 
February 1992, Kinnaird said. The post office last year 
placed an electrified wire around the roof to keep pigeons 
away, said Steve Shepherd, a post office supervisor. 
Shepherd said the problem has subsided, but he would 
not comment on the lawsuit. 

"~~-----~-----------~­Thursday, January 26, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 3 


Single parent families topic of national concern 
Current reform focusing upon wrong problems 
By CISCLEY ELLIOIT 
News Writ~r 
In the last decade 50% of chil­dren under the age of18 lived for some time in a single parent household and due to that envi­ronment, have a poverty rate of about 50%. 
Statistics like these make the issue of single parent house­holds inarguably important according to Sara McLanahan a single parent and author of Growing Up with a Single Parent. 
"Anytime dramatic changes effect a large proportion of the life of the nation's children, you have to take not6l of what that change is and what it means." 
McLanahan, professor of so­ciology and public affairs at Princeton University, spoke as part of the Provost's Distin­guished Visiting Lecturer Pro­gram. 
McLanahan's studies and the discussion of single motherhood in general have been fueled by President Clinton's recent State of the Union address and the Republican Contract with America, as questions and com­mentary during the lecture illustrated. 
The controversy surrounding this and similar studies, how­ever, is not a recent event. The political elements have followed this debate since its inception in and remarried households. She consistently found that the risks for those of single parents increase from 1.5 to 2.5 times that of similar individuals from stable two parent families. 

McLanahan named negative educational events (such as dropping out of high school, not attending college, low GPA, etc), teen pregnancy, divorce, idleness and jail sentences as risks studied. 
According to McLanahan, social scientists disagree on how to interpret her findings. Many suggest an existing prob­lem, predating the divorce, caused it and the effects as well. 
McLanahan assigns 25% of the problems to parental con­flict, classifying that number as more a concession than a veri­fiable fact because the research into widowed families showed such groups to be much better otT than the other single house­holds. 
"The risks of the remarried groups studied were not signifi­cantly different than that of the divorced, separated and never married," said McLanahan. Both the widowed and remar­ried groups indicate the large role of economics in the prob­lem and prove money is not the only difference. 
"The economic hardships faced by single incomes, espe­cially when coupled with the lower earning base of women and the decreased hours that a single mother is able to work ... " constitutes 50% of problems. She explains that, "In our 
3 

world, money is the quality of your schools, the safety of your streets; Money makes several opportunities available." 
McLanahan said that she also attributes the loss of parenting resources and community re­sources to her data. Together the two form "social capital," the relationships and commit­ments children build which are as important to a child as the household's financial stability. 
The lack of time with fathers, the change in authority and residences together with the quality of community and the connections between the child and his/her family and environ­ment, said McLanahan, effect the behavior and social mobility of children. 
McLanahan now concen­trates on the reform of Child support laws. She sights the over 50% of single mothers who receive no child support as examples of parents being al­lowed to neglect their part of the financial burden incurred from child rearing. 
She sees enforcement of child support as one of the three viable solutions being consid­ered, to the problem she adamantly believes, "will not simply go away." McLanahan defines "helping income with­out encouraging single mother­hood," as the critical and defining dilemma facing all potential resolutions. 
She supports the bipartisan proposed tax credit for all par­ents and getting welfare moth­ers into the work force, so long as child care and health care are not allowed to suffer. 
Making divorce laws stricter and eliminating welfare bene­fits through legislation are at­tempts to restigmitize teen mothers, and therefore, are "bad" ideas, according to McLanahan. 
To those women facing di­vorce or single motherhood, McLanahan suggests they pre­pare themselves for the prob­lems that lie ahead. She espe­cially aids women in exacting financial compensation as much as possible when the decision is finally made. 
While McLanahan does not condemn divorce or single parenthood, especially in cases of violence, she emphasizes the need for parental obligation and a renewed focus on the child. 
Last night's lecture was spon­sored by the Provost's Distinguished Visiting Lecturer Program and by the Department of Sociology. 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad 
Delivers to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Philly cg:tgesteaks Chicken Philly
and More... 
To order call: 
~---1575 
and Sat 

the 1960's and 70's, according to McLanahan. 
The race and gender ques­tions surrounding single par­enthood criticism are not un­founded. 
Yet, as McLanahan detailed, the "consistency across data sets of all races, ethnicities and social economic classes," and the similar effects of divorced, separated and never married family units, respectively, enable social scientists to call for a moratorium on these con­cerns addressing the problem itself without dismissing the wariness of people who claim these studies are ways of "blaming the victim." 
McLanahan drew her in­formation from several national studies that followed adoles­cents through adulthood. After adjusting for controlling vari­ables, she compared the chil­dren of stable, divorced, sepa­rated, widowed, never married 

Late Night Oly111pics Teatn Events 
Co-Ree Volleyball Half Court 3 on 3 Basketball (M&W) Nerf Football Co-Ree Water Polo Wiffle Ball Indoor Soccer (M&W) Target Golf Ultimate RecSports Challenge 
Table Top Pentathlon --------t Broomball (M&W) 
Kickball Racquetball (M&W) Kayaking Monster Dodgeball 
The Deadline for Entering a Team is Monday, January 30. Calll-6100 for More Information. 

~­


-----------~~----~--~--------------------------------------, 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, January26, 1995 
negative meanings that are of­feeling "between the hips and helps you to have fun, that's ten used positively. Leschke­the knees." fine. If you're the type of per­
Alcohol Stats
Hellstrom pointed uut that peo­Leschke-Hellstrom proposed son who needs alcohol to have 
continued from page 1 
"Dumb," was defined by Leschke-Hellstrom as "when we fall for the attitudes." Students should avoid letting the popu­lar attitudes drive their deci­sions, particularly in alcohol use, Leschke-Hellstrom said. He provided an example of the extent of these attitudes by not­ing the multitude and nature of synonyms people use for "drunk," such as "bombed," "smashed," "blitzed," "trashed,"--all words with 


Malloy 
continued from page 1 
unique learning environment. 
"I think that being a Catholic University is our great strength because it gives us a distinc­tiveness that distinguishes us from Ball State, Northwestern, Michigan State, and all other universities." 
"The worst thing that can happen to a modern American university is to become 'com­mon denominator,' to become just like every other school of the same age or geographical location. Without the funda­mental Catholic character, per-

CROSS COUNTRY 
~BEGINNER­
~SKICLINIC 

SATURDA~JANUARY28 
11:00 AM 

NOTRE DAME GOLF COURSE $5.00 CHARGE 
EQUIPMENT RENTAL A VAlLA~ $2.00 ADDITIONAL -4L 
REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS WEAR LAYERED CLOTHING & WARM GLOVES 
ple don't speak of being sober as enthusiastically as they speak of being .drunk. 
Leschke-Hellstrom's defini­tion of "Dumber" was "the dif­ference between what we know and what we do". According to Leschke-Hellstrom, there is nothing more foolish than doing things we know to be wrong. 
A great deal of the presenta­tion was devoted to discussing relationships as well. In Leschke-Hellstrom's opinion, a new definition of intimacy has come to dominate society, and this intimacy is reduced to a 
haps the main difference between Notre Dame and Northwestern would be that we are not in Chicago. Also, we have a better football team." 
Concerning the problematic issue of growing tuition costs at Notre Dame, Malloy conceded the need for increased financial aid from the University. and professed his own commitment to reach in the near future. 
"Increasing costs are the dilemma of all higher educa­tion," he said, "and our number one priority in fund-raising must be in financial aid." 
Comprehensive financial aid for Notre Dame students, whether need-based or merit­

"THE FINEST IN OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING" 
·FOUR AND FIVE BEDROOM TOWNHOMES ·TWO BATHROOMS ·SECURITY SYSTEMS ·KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE 
DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR, AND RANGE ·WASHER AND DRYER IN EACH UNIT ·GAS HEAT 
•CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING ·PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT ·24-HOUR MAINTENANCE ·ONE MILE FROM THE NOTRE DAME 
CAMPUS 

NOW LEASING FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 






232-8256 

a new meaning of intimacy for his audience. This "intimacy" consisted of five elements ­trust, respect, honesty, com­munication, and time. Leschke­Hellstrom suggested that "these are things most people want when you really break it down." He urg·ed students to remember most of all that it takes quality time to build intimacy in a rela­tionship. 
Leschke-Hellstrom concluded his talk by telling students, "I have no trouble with people who drink. If you're the type of person who drinks because it 
RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING C 0 R P S 
fun, I feel sorry for you. Just remember--it is your respon­sibility to get what you want, and if you need help with choices there are people to ask. Lastly, I wish you the ability and the power to get the things you want." 
Leschke-Hellstrom has a mas­ter's degree in counseling, and has been working with college students since 1985. Prior to his work with Real World Productions, he counseled 11­13 year olds in the Red Hook projects in Brooklyn, NY. 

continued from page 1 
The percentage of students who expressed doubts about their ability to pay for college, just less than a fifth of all sur­veyed, reached an all time high. 
Student reliance on college loans increased for the eighth time in 10 years as well. 
In other responses, the sur­vey also found that beer drink­ing is on the decline nationally, reaching a new low of 53 per­cent after coming to a head at 75 percent in 1981. 48 per­cent of Notre Dame freshman said they drank beer in the past year prior to the survey. 
Also, only two percent of freshmen at Notre Dame smoke, compared With 12 per­cent overall, the sixth increase nationally in the past seven years, and one in eight de­scribed themselves as a "fre­quent smokers" from one in eleven in 1985. 
-
-
based, is one of the major goals of the Administration. The Uni­versity will only be able to con­tinue if students and parents continue to believe in the value of a Notre Dame education, ac­cording to Malloy. 
As for the future, Father Malloy expressed optimism and hope for continual growth with­in the University. Citing the "Colloquy for the Year 2000," Father Malloy mentioned such proposals as increasing faculty by as much as150 members, adding new laboratory facilities for science studies, and even building a bigger bookstore. 
"Now, and in the future, Notre Dame must maintain its commitment to providing the best educational, social, and spiritual opportunities that it can." 

Iii  •  Iii  
I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ I ~ II I  ~ rr1 SKI RENTAlScRoss couNT REcsPDRrs CHECIC OUT: 4:JO -S:JO PM THURSD~. FRIDAY ti:OO AM -2:00 PM WURD~ CHECIC IN: 4:!0 -S:JO PM FRIDAY, SUNDAY ti:OO AM • 2:00 PM WURD~ OPEN TO STUDENTS, fACUlTY AND STAff-SKIS, BOOTS AND POlES RMES: IJ.OO OVERNIGHT -15.00 TWO NIGlllS NO RESERVATION NECESSAR116.00 THREE NIGlllS ItOO SAJURDA1 ti:OOAM • 2:00PM -AT THE COlF SHOP 631·6425-' - ~ ~ ~ I ~ ~ II ~ ~ ~ ~ I ~  
Iii. Iii  

.. :·:: 
SUMMER SCHOOL FOR PEOPLE ON THEIR WAY TO THE TOP. 
If you didn't sign up for ROTC as a 
By the time you have graduated from freshman or sophomore, you can still 
college, you'll have the credentials of catch up to your classmates by 
an Army officer. You'll also have attending Army ROTC Camp Chal­
the self-confidence and disciplinelenge, a paid six-week summer 
it takes to succeed in college and course in leadership training. 
beyond. 
ARMY ROTC 

THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE. 
For details, visit 216 Pasquerilla Center or call 631-6986 



Thursday, January 26, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Christianity hides reality of Mary's sacrifice 

Wanted: Reporters,
DDDDDDDDDDDDDDDD 

photographers, and editors. Join the 



OPHOMORES! 
Observer staff! 
DDDDDDDDDDDDDDDD 
Apply now for the position of 
JUNIOR PARENTS' WEEKEND 
1996 CHAIRPERSON Applications at LaFortune Info. Desk Deadline: 5:00p.m., Mon., jan. 30 Questions? Call Shannon Kasten at 4-4556 Interviews will be held Feb. 1st & 2nd DDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDD 


'IME: 


9 month-12 month Leases 
Furnished Apartments, All Utilities Covered, Central Air 

Leasing Now for August 1995 
Make your apartment selection early! 
These apartments will feature the high,efficiency, energy,saving heat pump. 
By NICOLE NIELSEN 
News Writer 
The Christian symbol of Mary, one of the most powerful in Western culture, is failing con­temporary men and women in many ways, according to Dr. Phyllis Kaminski, a professor of Heligious Studies at Saint Mary's. 
Kaminski cited an essay writ­ten by Julia Kristeva in her talk, a part of Women's Week, entitled "Mary, the Cross, and Women's Bodies". 
The essay by Kristeva is enti­tled "Stabat Mater" and it is taken from a book entitled Tales of Love . Kaminski point­ed out that Kristeva feels "the spiritual language of Christian discourse about Mary hides the reality of the sacrificed mater­nal body on which civilization has been built." 
Kaminski discussed Kriste­va's understanding of the hu­man subject as divided, in pro­cess and on trial, as the abject maternal, and as a new basis for ethics. 
Kristeva's work "challenges us to think about Mary and about ourselves as women in a new way," sad Kaminski. 
That is, her work helps us look past the language that sometimes prevents women from feeling as if they have a place in Christian discourse. She added that Kristeva's work "will help us understand the Cross and redemption some­what differently". 
Kaminski's discussion pro­voked questions about whether or not the work of people such as Kristeva will change Chris­tianity. She addressed this is­sue by saying, "It sure will change Christianity. It will help us understand women's strug­gles, questions of inclusive lan­guage, and current ethical de­bates." 

She further stated that al­though she does believe that people like Kristeva will change Christianity and the way that language is interpreted, "Kristeva cannot do it alone, and the process will be a long one." 
The work of people such as Kristeva's is very important, especially at a school like Saint Mary's, where women are try­ing to discover their signifi-· cance in Christianity, according to Kaminski. 
"It is important for Saint Mary's women, and all women, to realize that there are possi­bilities." 



-=~y.:~~6, !9;l 

Senate Auschwitz service marred by dispute 
-~·---­

page6 The Observer • NEWS 
continued from page 1 
is," he said. 
Student Affairs will use the information, but it will not be the only factor in their making a decision, according to Hun­geling. 
Other topics of discussion at the meeting included the progress of the Gender Rela­tions Committee, which was cre­ated as a Senate sub-committee by Senators Bridget Conley and Rich Palermo. 
According to Palermo, at the first of the committee's two meetings "people vented about gender relations like people do in their dorm rooms." Palermo said that a goal for the commit­tee's next meeting is to have more of a "focus." 
'Conley said the Committee is in the process of organizing a "speak-up" at which the main topic of discussion will be co-ed dorms. 
Another meeting of the Gen­der Relations Committee will be held on Wednesday, February 1, at 4:30 p.m. in the Student Government office or in the adjacent Notre Dame Room, depending on the size of the meeting. 
At last night's meeting, dates were set concerning Student Government elections. Accord­ing to Judicial Coordinator An­drew Alfers. the election for Student Body President and Vice President will be held on February 8, and a run-off is scheduled for February 10 if necessary. The candidates may begin campaigning on February 1, and they may not seek endorsements. Candidates may speak at Hall Council meetings before campaigning ends on February 7. 
By MONIKA SCISLOWSKA 
Associated Press 
AUSCHWITZ, Poland 
Jews from around the world returned Wednesday to Auschwitz-Birkenau, the Nazis' biggest death complex, where 
1.5 million people were killed before it was liberated 50 years ago. 
Jews accounted for more than 90 percent of those killed at the camps from 1940 until they were liberated by the Soviet army on Jan. 27, 1945. 
But a dispute over the degree of Jewish participation in Fri­day's anniversary ceremonies has marred the event. 
Nobel Peace laureate Elie Wiesel, who heads the official 
U.S. delegation, complained that the government-organized commemoration does not focus sufficiently on the suffering of Jews, the main victims of the Nazi Holocaust. 
"There are still problems. I hope to resolve them" during a lunch meeting Thursday with Polish President Lech Walesa, Wiesel said before leaving Paris Wednesday night. ''I'm con­vinced that the Polish authori­ties will understand why we are so sensitive to the question of Jewish participation." 

The government's ceremony reflects the view of the Polish people, half of whom equate the word "Auschwitz" with the martyrdom of their nation. About 6 million Polish citizens were killed during the war, the majority in death camps. Half were Gentile, and half were Jews. 
One issue that caused 
anguish among Jews was the 
failure of organizers to list the 
Kaddish, the Jewish prayer for 
the dead, separately on the 
anniversary program. Instead 
the program notes that prayers 
of several religions will be held 
during Friday's events at 
Auschwitz. 
That led some Jews to say 
they wouldn't attend and oth­. ers, like Wiesel, to accuse the Polish organizers of showing a lack of respect for Jewish sen­
timents. 


f%1 
Alumnae 
XssociCit16n 
Saint Mary's College Notre name, Indiana 
APPUCATIONS NOW BEING ACCEYfED FOR 1995 SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS 
1995 Project Sites: St. Louis, MO; Washington, 
D.C.; Columbus, OH 
Stipend: A tuition credit scholarship of $1050 
per project will be awarded for 6 weeks of 
unpaid service. 

Eligibility: Saint Mary's College freshmen, 
sophomores, and juniors. 
Application Deadline: February 15, 1995. Project descriptions and applications may be obtained from the Alumnae Relations Office, 110 Le Mans Hall. 
1994-95 PAUL M. AND BARBARA HENKELS 
VISITING SCHOLARS SERIES 
COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS ¢z~ UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 



Masculinity in the 1990s 
co-sponsored by: Departments of American Studies, Anthropology, Government, and Sociology; Concentration in Gender Studies; Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies; Multicultural Executive Council 
All lectures will be held in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium at 4:00 p.m. 
Monday,Jan.30, 1995 
Dr. MichaelS. Kimmel 
Department of Sociology, S.U.N.Y. at Stony Brook 
"Clarence, William, Iron Mike, Magic and Us: Male­Female Relationships in the 1990s" 
Tuesday, Jan. 31 
Dr. MichaelS. Kimmel "The Mens Movement in the 1990s" 
-
~ 
L .. .. ~-.. --...... -.. "". 0 

Thursday, January 26, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Weak HIV strain may be key to vaccine 
By DANIEL HANEY 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 

One man's HIV infection over a decade ago is giving scientists their first evidence of the safety of an AIDS vaccine that has been considered too dangerous for people. 
In a kind of unintended natu­ral experiment, the man caught a genetically weakened form of the AIDS virus. It is virtually identical to the weakened virus used in the experimental vac­cine, which works well on mon­keys. 
Typically people fall ill within 10 years of contracting HIV. But this man, now 44, appears to be perfectly healthy at least 12 years after getting infected. 
About 5 percent of HIV-in­fected people show no signs of immune system damage more than a decade after catching the virus. Understanding the factors that keep them healthy is a major goal of AIDS research. 
The study is the first to show that long-term HIV survival clearly may result from catch-· ing a crippled version of the 

~~\J~N~~~RENJi's& 
TONIGIIT, 8:30 DOOLEY RM. (LAFORTUNE) 
HOW THE N.D. ALUMNI NETWORK CAN HELP YOU. 

When found, turn the treasure in to the Alumni Office (Rm. 201 Main Building) to claim the Cordless Phone. For past clues, stop by the Alumni/S.A.R.G. Office. See tomorrow's Observer for the last clue. 

WOODY AllEN'S NEW COMmY IS THHOAST OHHE TOWN. 
''A BRIGHT, ENERGETIC COMEDY! 
The kind of sharp-Bdged farce Woody Allen has always done best." 
Janet Moslrn. THE NEW YORK TIMES 
"DAZZLING 
•  FUN!"  
.,a·  Peter Travers,  
ROLLING STONE  

virus. 
Certainly, one healthy patient does not prove safety. And it also does not demonstrate whether the vaccine wards off other HIV infections, although the researchers said it may have kept the man, a hemophil­iac, from getting more lethal forms of the virus from his clot­ting material, which was pro­duced before it was routinely screened for HIV. 
Recently, doctors discovered that the man's virus was crip­pled by a mutation in one of its nine genes. By coincidence, this mutation is identical to the one deliberately engineered into an experimental vaccine for SIV, the monkey form of the AIDS virus. 
Scientists showed two years ago that giving monkeys this weakened form of the virus protects them from catching the lethal variety, despite delib­erate exposure. Yet it does not make the monkeys sick. 
The case of the man who was inadvertently vaccinated was described in Thursday's issue of the New England Journal of Medicine by researchers from the New England Regional Primate Research Center and the University of Massachusetts Medical School. 

The search for a human AIDS vaccine has been disappointing. Giving dead fragments of the virus does not appear to stimu­late the body enough to ward off infection. Yet giving a weak­ened but live virus -called an attenuated vaccine-is consid­ered too risky because of the chance it will cause the disease it is intended to prevent. 
Dr. Ronald C. Desrosiers of the primate center said many scientists agree that a live at­tenuated AIDS vaccine is likely to be the most effective at pre­venting infection. 
"But the big concern is safety, safety, safety, safety," he said. "This guy is doing rme. This is evidence of sorts that it can be safe." 
In an accompanying editorial in the journal, Dr. David Balti­more of Massachusetts Institute of Technology wrote that "con­tinued study of an attenuated vaccine is reasonable." 

~~asyli,~t~ 
Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
Clocktower Square 51400 31 North 

(219)277-1291
South Bend, IN 46637 

The Air Force is Hiring! Scholarships are available! 
Air Force ROTC is about learning leadership skills, training to be an offi­cer in the United States Air Force, helping your community, having fun, and most important of all, serving your country. 
For more details check out the Air Force ROTC homepage through mosaic in any computer cluster (http://www.nd.edu/-afrotc). So if you are interested in getting a scholarship and joining one of the best organizations in the world, then contact Capt. Richard Harter at 631-4674 or send email to: afrotc@darwin.cc.nd.edu. 




JPW 1995 
Earn $$$ for Spring Break February 17,18,19 Sign Ups are: SAT 1/28 9:30A.M.-6:00P.M. SuN 1/29 10:30 A.M.-6:00P.M. 
Catering Employment Office 
Basement South Dining Hall 

Doctor jailed for fatal 'tests' 
By ANGUS SHAW 
Associated Press 
HARARE, Zimbabwe 

A white anesthesiologist ac­cused of experimenting on non-white patients was sen­tenced today to six months in jail for the deaths of two chil­dren. 
Dr. Richard McGown was convicted Jan. 11 of manslaughter in the deaths of a 20-month-old Asian toddler and a 10-year-old black girl. He was accused of experiment­ing on patients by giving them differing levels of morphine. The two children died after surgery in which he adminis­tered anesthesia, stoking racial tension in Zimbabwe. 
McGown, who could have been sentenced to a maximum of life in prison, was also fined about $2,000. 
Black militants had threat­ened to attack whites if Mc­Gown did not receive a stiff sentence. 
There was little advance word of today's sentencing. Hundreds of people gathered outside the courtroom for the verdict two weeks ago, but only about 30 were present today. Lawyers for McGown said the 
sentencing  date  was  kept  
secret  to  avoid  attracting  
demonstrators.  

"I find nothing to suggest he feels any remorse," Judge Paddington Garwe said in im­posing the sentence. 
McGown is appealing his conviction. 
Garwe said McGown commit­ted gross negligence in 1988 by releasing a 20-month-old Asian toddler to his parents after ad­ministering a high dose of mor­phine in a circumcision op­eration. The baby choked on vomit after suffering respira­tory problems caused by the morphine. 
If kept in the hospital under observation, the baby would have survived, Garwe said. 
McGown also was convicted of manslaughter in the death of a 10-year-old black girl. 
He was acquitted on charges connected with the deaths of three other patients. 
All five patients died of com­plications following unusually large doses of morphine administered by McGown. 
During the five-week trial that ended Aug. 3, McGown was accused of trying to mea­sure black tolerance to mor­phine. Zimbabwe lawmakers likened him to a Nazi death camp doctor. 

----------------~--------------­


VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Thursday, January 26, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor .... : ........................... David Tyler Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Sean Galla van Photo Editor....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director...............Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor............... Elizabeth Regan Controller ..................................... Krisren Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commenlaries, letters and Inside Columns present rhe views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor /Viewpoint Sports News/Photo Accent/Saint Mary's Day Editor/Production General Information  631-454.1 631-4543 631-5323 631-4540 631-5303 631-7471  Advertising 631-6900I 8840 SystemsI Marketing Dept. 631-8839 Office Manager 631-7471 Fax 631-6927 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu  



• DOONESBURY 
me a the 
So what if like to 
a 0 u n d 
I don't 
Who 
You 
He really What 
phrase I 
your eyebrows or some such stunt, and in will walk Father Hesburgh just as you're reach­ing for the bottle. Buzz-Kill! Or you'll meet some hot chick, and she'll give you the glad eye and invite you over to her off­campus apartment, and then when you get there she hands you a bottled embryo. Buzz­Kill! Things like that kill me, and they happen all the time. It makes me wish I had stayed at Muscatel Junior College, where my friend still goes. 
Sometimes I say to myself, Buzz, why do you let it get to you? If there is one thing I have learned here at Notre Dame, it is the importance of positive thinking. Do all­American football players like Mike Miller, etc. let the naysay­ers get to them? Or ND Law graduate John Rita? Guys like that may not be admirable, but you've got to respect their pluck. There seems to be something about Notre Dame that brings out the best in peo­ple. 
Except me. I don't know. I'm not the same man as I was before Lollapalooza. All that slamming! Why couldn't we have some mud, too? How I would have loved to writhe in the primordial ooze, shoving the faces of Green Day fans into the sludge and filth. I guess that will have to be "a dream deferred," as the poet Langston Hughes says. 
I guess by now you've had 
enough of Buzz for one day. 
Maybe for a lifetime, I don't 
know. I hope we can get togeth­
er sometime. 
Josh Ozersky is a graduate student in history. Contact him over e-mail at this address: joshua. a. ozersky.l@nd. edu. 


(3{X)O&V£NIN6. 7WAY a/A5 VIS!TINt3 /JAY FOR 7H& 5&­6K.JESTeR£/?JURORS OF 7HC:. 
TRIA/, OF 7H&Mlu.eNNIUM... 
tiJVW ONES A7?£M9ia? ATA PR&-ARR.ANtiW IIXATIONANI? tAB?& 77-ICN ~t/TTt/31? TO TH/3 
JURY'S 7DP·5££RET Hlll£30UT.' 
50AS NaT 70 COMPROM/5& ITS 
LfXATION, VISITORS W&R& PR&­VeNTW FROM to01</N60UT7JI&IR IAJIN1101A/5 7HROIJ6HOUT lH& tnJ6 \ RJfl&, 

• QUOTE Of THE DAY 
''Irealize that patriotism is 
not enough. I must have 
no hatred or bitterness 
towards anyone." 
-Edith Cavell 


' I I 
Thursday, January 26, 1995 page 9 
• 

WVFI 

needs support 
Today. I'm writing about an organization that doesn't claim to be part of any musical revolution, but is actually a major part of' it: WVFI. 
Forovertw1en··----~-------­
ty years. college radio stations have non­
chalantly trail· 
blazed the scene,' 
delivering col· 
lege students 
new and exciting 
music completely 
Rob Adams 
free. 
Musk Critic

By remaining "underground" and having the freedom to create shows by their design, college stations are able to cut through all the sponsorships, the repetition. and the predictabil· ity of other radio stations. They give people tho chance to listen to artists and tracks that no other station will play. 
WVFI has that responsibility on this campus. Their DJ's work. without salary, for over half the day, attempting to introduce us to new and exciting sounds in any way they please. 
Their creativity enables listen­ers to be entertained and edu· cated through a format they won't find anywhere else on the radio. 
Recently, a debate has sparked about whether or not WVFI · ' · should make the move from AM to FM. It Is not a debate, really. Who would argue against moving the station from the.low-range, hard-to-pick-up signal they have now to the glorious potential of 
FM? 
However, that is not their prob­lem. · Those who control WVFI's fate know that anyone can fill out a survey saying "Yes, I would like WVFI to move to FM," but they want proof that the station has support, an extremely difficult measure to gauge. 
With the format established at WVFI. you would probably be able to hear over 270 new songs in any given day with virtually no repeti• tion and completely without com­mercials. 
The specific taste of each OJ comos out of the regular shows as only 50% of what they have to play is from a playlist. 
A playlist that can contain up to 112 CO's and is updated daily, with any given CD remaining for a period of two weeks to two months. And if you have a favorite type of music, WVFI prob· ably has a specialty show which has exactly what you want to hear. 
So. what can we do as average student-citizens of the University of Notre Dame do to heighten the chnnces of WVFI making the switch'? Offer your support, write letters, and spark conversations. If you listen to the station lot peo· ple know about it, particularly members of WVFI's staff. 
Check it out sometime. OtTer suggestions. 
The hardest part about doing radio is that at any given moment. you have no idea bow many peo· pie are listening. 
It is undetermined what amount of student support WVFI needs or how it will be measured for that matter, but since there is no rea· son why they shouldn't move to FM. why don't we prove it? 

St. Ed's lets audience judge 
By MAR GEE HUSEMANN Accent Writer 
A courtroom, intrigue, murder, scan­dalous affairs... No, it is not the most recent Kennedy family reunion. "Night of January 16th," a play by Ayn Rand is being presented by the St. Edward's Hall Players this Thursday, Friday, and Saturday nights at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. 
The play, set in New York during the 1940's, centers on the trial of Karen Andre. played by Karen Kapusnak. who is accused of murdering her employer, Bjorn Faulkner. 
The trial continues to become more and more compelling as each witnesses testifies and seems to push the fate of the defendant in one direction and then the other. The work itself is a roller coaster which takes the audience on a wild ride as the two attorneys battle for the verdict. 
Directors James Kroger and Bob Maida, as well as producer E.L. Chaffee, all believe that the cast has done an excellent job. 
"Our initial concern was the size of the 
cast and how we could most effectively 
focus their energies toward a common 
goal," Chaffee said. However. he went 
on to say "The cast this year has been 
extremely committed to the production." 
Bill Wade, who portrays District Attorney Flint agrees. 
"I'm very enthusiastic about what's 
happening on the stage. We have a good 
mix of experience and energy. The show 
tl"he St. Edward's Hall Players practice for their performance of 'Night of January 16th.' 
should be a solid piece of entertain­ment," Wade said. 
as their gaze falls upon me -the icon of ence into the show led to some uncon­While all of the actors seem to feel authority and power." ventional staging." However, this audi­confident about their performances and As a strange twist to the production, ence participation emphasizes the dedi­enjoy their roles, they agree that the the jury who will eventually decide the cation of the players to providing greatplay is difficult at times. 
fate of Karen Andre is selected .from the entertainment.
Kevin Dolan who has the role of audience. Brian Zelizo, who plays police Kroger says, "After not doing the show Homer Van Fleet, a private investigator, officer Elmer Sweeny, stated, "This play in 91-92, the executive committee feelscommented, "The great thing about this has intrigue,·numor, and action, but no we have reestablished a tradition at St.
show is the characterization. We have to ending. The truth is, we don't know Ed's that can be a benefit to our whole 
stay in character through the whole 
what the ending will be. That's for the community."
show, so it is very challenging." 
audience to decide." The play opens tonight at WashingtonTom Boyce, who plays Judge Heath, Commenting on the decision to com­Hall. Tickets are $4 and can be pur­seemed to especially enjoy his role, "I pose the jury of audience members, chased at the Lafortune Informationlove seeing the fear in everyone's eyes Kroger said, "Trying to bring the audi-desk or at the door. 
Sweep the Leg Joh~[lny takes you in circles 
By CHRISTIAN STEIN 
Music Critic 
sweep the leg johnny 
After listening to Circles All Around, the new cassette from the campus band Sweep the Leg Johnny, I felt as if I had been on a musical roller coaster. 
Each of the three songs 
have their own unique blend 
of rock, ska and funk. 
Accompanying these stylistic 
changes are smooth tempo 
transitions that bring you up 
and down throughout its 
course. 
This album has the poten­
tia] to bring you up to your 
highest energy level and then 
right back down without 
missing a beat. 
quickly erased after hearing Throughout this song the Finally, the song reaches its It is safe to say that their this five minute plus music constantly reminds us full potential when bass play­music blends the influences instrumental. that being important, accord­er Wilfred Freve and drum·of Pearl Jam, Nine Inch Nails, On the second song, ing to this band, is not at· mer James Bukow join in toLiving Colour and Too Much "Sunday" we get the first tainable. complete the song and
Joy. 
taste of singer and saxophone album, leaving you with aThe first song, "The Rolling player Steve Sostak's passion Complimenting Sostak's lasting impression. 
0," begins with a fast bass 
and rage when he opens the rage are quiet moments
guitar line, quickly accompa­
song singing, "Live to be between choruses that give This is one of the best
nied by the rest of the band. 
accepted, rely upon no one you time to sympathize with bands that I have heard comeAt this point the complexion excluding someone. Living the band who then take you out of Notre Dame of late and
of the song changes from 
life neglected, rejected by a back up to your peak and end I definitely think that a liverock to funk causing you to 
family never known," and the song. performance would onlyrealize that this isn't just 
then closing it with, The final song, "Teach" make me like them better.
another 'alternative' band. 
"Connected to nothing inside, constantly builds in power. You can buy this tape directly nothing outside, nothing is beginning with Christopher from guitarist ChristopherAny doubts you may have equal. Is it attainable to feel Daly alone on guitar eventu­Daly for $3 by calling him at
had about Sweep the Leg 
important?" ally accompanied by Sostak. X3325.
Johnny's musical talent are 


I 
~ I 
page 10 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, January 26, 1995 
• SUPERBOWl 



Walsh predicts a San Francisco victory 
By BILL WALSH 
Associat~d Press 

The San Diego Chargers are in trouble. They are up against a superior team and only a narrow set of improbable cir­cumstances could produce an upset of the San Francisco 49ers in the Super Bowl. 
First, let's talk about the 49ers. San Francisco brings to this game one of the most experienced teams and one of the most diverse teams, from the back­grounds of the players, in the history of the Super Bowl. 
The 49ers bring the kind of balance in all phases of the game that you would identify with a world championship team. 
Their defense is not necessarily the best, but it is among the best and they have big-play athletes, in their sec­ondary, in their pass rush, in their line­backing. 
Their offensive line is one of the most skilled lines ever to play in the Super Bowl. Their linemen have mobility and quickness, and they're rarely beaten even when they're playing against quick athletes. 
Steve Young is the best quarterback in football and one of the best of all time. At this point, the only person who could rival him is Troy Aikman of Dallas. 
Young brings the ability to run which in a Super Bowl, in a single given con­test, can be the absolute key. I recall Joe Montana's running in Super Bowl 19 made a dramatic difference and Steve Young can call on that dimension as a resource for this game. 
San Francisco has the fmest receiving group in football, one of the finest ever. Their running back positions with Ricky Watters and William Floyd are solid, if not among the best. 
So offensively, the 49ers are clearly the best team in all of football and defen­sively they are among the best. Their special teams are among the better 
teams. 
They can put return men on the field who are really exciting and certainly they can go to Deion Sanders any time they want. He's 


always there and he is the best in all of football, so wherever and whenever they put him on the field, they've got some­thing that other people can't rival. 
San Diego is a good, solid team that has been built by Bobby Beathard the last five years. Week in, week out, they have been very competitive. 
They peaked at just the right time because if any other of four or five teams in the AFC had peaked, they could be the Super Bowl representative. It just so happened that Kansas City was beginning to fade, the Raiders faded, certainly Buffalo had faded. 
Miami, with a great quarterback, was not a fully dimensional team so the flaws in the Dolphins' play cost them in their fmal game. Pittsburgh, the team I believe was the strongest in the AFC, managed to self-destruct in the champi­onship game and allowed San Diego to win it. 
So San Diego comes to the Super Bowl as a survivor. That's not to demean what they've accomplished in any way. Certainly, they earned right to be there. 
San Diego could conceivably outplay San Francisco, or at least play equal to San Francisco in the trenches. The Chargers have a solid powerful running back in Natrone Means, and very possi­bly could run the ball effectively. 
But every run has to count. They can't have too many where they're stopped at the line of scrimmage. I imagine they would have to average well over 4 yards per carry to have success. 
Running the ball and picking their spots with the pass has been at the cen­ter of the Chargers' success all year. Stan Humphries and his receivers did a beautiful job against Pittsburgh with the play pass and got a big TD out of one of those plays that won the game for them. 
Their style will be to take it right to San Francisc.o running the ball and then spring a play pass five or six times dur­ing the game and hope to hit a big one. 
Mark Seay and Tony Martin are good but San Francisco has a way for Sanders to cover their No. 1 receiver and double the other. 
On the other side of the ball, the San Francisco offensive line could have trou­ble with the San Diego defenders. Junior Seau is a great linebacker, and SD has some very active, mobile players in their front line, led by Leslie O'Neal. 
In the special teams area, it could also Francisco chooses to pass. That's where there's every reason to believe the 49ers will destroy San Diego, as they did in last month's 38-15 victory. 
be  that  San  Diego  outplays  San  
Francisco by a slight margin.  
The  problem  will  be  when  San  

The combinations of Young to Jerry Rice, Young to John Taylor, and Young to Brent Jones have basically decimated every defense they've played against for years and there's no reason to think they won't continue to do that Sunday. 
For San Diego to win seems impossi­ble. The difference between this San Diego team and, say, the New York Jets team of 1968 is that the Jets had a great passing game with Joe Namath, Don Maynard and George Sauer. San Diego does not have those weapons. 
The Chargers would have to control the ball, make 30 first downs and either score on every possession or when they didn't get off punts pinning San Francisco inside its 10. Returning a punt or kickoff all the way would help. San Francisco would also have to fumble at inopportune times or have their big plays negated by penalties. 
All of those things would have to fall into place in one game for San Diego to win it. Is is possible? Yes. But the odds are about like what the oddsmakers are making them. 
So this could turn out like other Super Bowls where the NFC team is dominant. I hate to paint a picture quite so stark but I don't know how else to frame it. 
Bill Walsh spent 21 years coaching in the NFL. and won three Super Bowls in 10 years as coach of the 49ers. Walsh. inducted into football's Hall of Fame in 1993. also spent 11 years as an assistant. all with AFC teams. In 1976. he was the offensive coordinator for the San Diego Chargers. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
SEMESTER JOB earn up to $1 0/hr call 289-0704 

••cAMPUS BANDS/MUSICIANS•• 
The Student Union Board is now accepting demo tapes to be consid­ered for the 1995 campus CD. Original music only, 1 song per demo please. Turn tape and short bio into SUB, second floor LaFortune. in "campus CD" box by February 17. Questions? Call Ryan at 288-3952 or Steve at 232 4959. 
··cAMPUS CD 1995••••••••••• 
Used Texts Cheap!! Check out 
Pandora's Books 233-2342 
ND ave & Howard st 10-6m-sat 
9-3 sundays 
Term Papers typed 
Spee-Dee Wordprocessing 273-4824 

Pick Up The $20,000 Check in this year's campus telephone directory. The yellow pages are reinvented and more fun than ever before! Pick up your directory at your Residence Hall or Student Activities in LaFortune Student Union if you have not already received one, and 
~~~;;':';~:~ 
..____________.I 
Found, a man's wedding ring. Call 
Becky@ 2291 to identify. 
FOR RENT 

Room available for rent. 15 mins walk from campus, safe neighbor­hood and a neat and well kept home. $225 a month, includes use of all utilities. Serious students pre­ferred. Call Paul at (219)-232-2794. 
HOMES FOR RENT 
NEAR CAMPUS 
232-2595 
Oakhill Condo for RENT 
for the 1995-1996 school year. 
For information call: 273-9438. 

1, 2, & 3 BDRM HOMES NEAR CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW & NEXT FALL. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272­6551 
FOR SALE 
Computer Monitor-Acer-IBM Compatible-Brand New-$200­Jim 4-1059 
1-year-old Sega w/ 2 joysticks and Sonic 2 -good condition, killing my studies, $70 obo. Call Mark at 255­3545 
1 Roundtrip airline ticket to Ft. Lauderdale 3/11 returning 3/16. Call X3704. $300, negotiable. 
Mac POWERBOOK Duo 4/80 with floppy drive. 273-9213 
Car -Buick Skyhawk'84, low 
mileage, good condition,$ 1699, call Francois at 2345716 
OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered at $85,900. First Floor location. Finished basement with full lavato­ry. Two Bedrooms and two baths on ground level. Lease back to owner through May, 1995. Call (616) 946-0700. 
For Sale: Sansui Receiver, Technics 5-disc CD player, and three way JVC speakers. All in per-feet condition. $500 or best offer-call X0640 
~.--"W;-1\_N_T_E_D__, 
Barefoot Bahamas Spring Break 
Sailing Cruise! Free brochure 
1 (800)359-9808 
Spring Break! Bahamas Party Cruise 6 Days $27911ncludes 12 Meals & 6 Free Parties! Great Beaches & Nightlife! A HUGE Party! Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights Air & Hotel From $429! Spring Break Travel1-800-678-6386 
Florida's Spring Break Hotspots! PANAMA CITY OCEANVIEW ROOM WITH KITCHEN $129! WALK TO BEST BARS! Cocoa Beach (Near Disney)-27 acre Deluxe Beachfront Resort 7 Nights $159! Key West $2291 Day1ona Room with Kitchen From $129! 1­800-678-6386 Spring Break! Panama City! 8 Days Oceanview Room with a Kitchen $129! Walk to best bars! Includes Free Discount Card which will save you $100 on food/drinks! 1-800­678-6386 
I need books for Animal Behavior. 
Jim 4-4307 
RUN YOUR OWN BUSINESS, 
-GAIN VALUABLE EXPERIENCE WHILE BUILDING YOUR RESUME. EARN UP TO $10,000 (25 JOBS) HIGH DEMAND PROD­UCT, IRRIGATION SALES AND INSTALLATION. BE A LEADER: VEHICLE REQUIRED CALL STU­DENT SPRINKLERS AT 1-800­265>1691 
SKI RESORT JOBS-Hiring for many positions (including summer). Up to $2,000+ in salary & benefits (Free ski pass, ski equipment, meal discounts). Ski/Snowboard instruc­tors, lilt operators, wait staff, chalet staff, +other positions. For more information caii:(206)634-Q469 ext.V55842 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING­Earn up to $2,000+/month working on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­panies. World travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.). Seasonal and full-time employment available. No experience neces­sary. For more information call1­206-634-0468 ext. C55842 
HELP COMUTER BLUES ibm compat. 486/50 w/ cd need sound hooked to cd & basic tutoring alter6,jim 
STUDENTS NEEDED TO MAN­AGE PAINTING CREWS, THROUGHOUT INDIANA, FOR SUMMER OF '95. GUARANTEED TO MAKE $3000. IF INTERESTED, PLEASE CALL 1-800-94-STU­DENT. 
Needed -former ISLI participants to facilitate one-day program February 4-call1-7005 
ND couple need sitter on occasion­al weekday basis. Near ND. Must have car. $5 per hour. 232-5790. 

NEEDED: reponsible caregiver in our home for infant and 3 year old boys. quiet environment, conve­nient location. Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays 2:00 p.m. to 8:00-p.m. References required. Call 289­9975. 
TICKETS 
ROUND TRIP PLANE TIC CHICA­GO-ST.LOUIS FEB 10-12$65­
X3236 

Selling BasquetB Sid Tix Booklet 50, 271-19-98 
I NEED KENTUCKY GA's. CALL 
MATT AT x2153. 

••• ALL ARE WELCOMEIII ••• 
PACERS TRIP 

$20 Thursday, January 26th Buses leave CCE at 3pm 
Tickets still on sale at LaFortune 
Info Desk. 

I NEED BC TIX Call Steve 272­
4021 

NEED BASKETBALL TIX FOR 
MARQUETTE GAMEl II CALL 
MARTY 277-2710 

Need Marquette GA's 
Call Chris x3767 

I need two tickets for the Kentucky 
basketball game. Call x4015 if you 
have some!l!ll 
4 tix needed 
ND v. Kentucky 
DESPARATE 
call1845 

$$$$ NEED KENTUCKY GAME 
TIX. CALL MIKE @277-1704 $$$$ 
PERSONAL 
David Mamet's AMERICAN BUFFALO Directed by Stephen Susco 
February 2-4 (Thurs.-Sat.) 8:10pm Washington Hall Mainstage Tickets are $3.00, on sale now at the LaFortune Information Desk Produced by the Notre Dame Student Players •• note : play contains harsh pro­fanity and some violent/adult themes CD'S FOR ONLY A BUCK COME TO WVFI'S SEMI-ANNUAL MUSIC SALE THIS THURSDAY AT 
10:00 P.M. @ACOUSTIC CAFE. 
WVFI640AM NEW MUSIC FOR THE NEW YEAR-NOW ON THE AIR 
Tulsa rocks. 
Sound Tachs Needed! Student Activities is now hiring 
sound tachs. Applications available in the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune. Deadline Friday, February 3. 
SMC-ND 1995 SUMMER PRO­GRAMS IN LONDON AND ROME. TRAVEL IN IRE, SCOT, ENG, FRANCE, GER. SWITZ, & ITALY. COURSES IN BUEC, ED, HIST, ITALIAN. INFO-ORG MEETING FEB.6, AT 6:30PM CARROLL HALL-SMC.CALL PROF. A.A. BLACK 284-4460 (OFC) OR 272-3726 (HOME) 
Tom Bolger-Did you ever see the movie 16 Candles? Sorry I am so clueless-Happy 22nd-belated! 
love, merrie 
Suffering caffeine withdraw! ? Come and satisfy your addiction for free at Acoustic Cafe Every Thursday 9pm in the Huddle 
Tonight's performers are.. AARON DUNN SHAUNA HELLER KATE TELESCA BRENDAN BAYLISS SARA SOJA LITTLE MIL TON and YOUR NAME HERE 
-----·TONIGHT--­
The BIG EARL BAND 
Live @ Club 23 
Kristen I know you're reading this so hi! Oh, I have to tell you the lat­est manly story. Madness, Pure Madness. But, can't live without them! 
GOING TO MIAMI, OH? I need a ride for Feb. 3-4 weekend (ND vs. Miami hockey game) Please call Mary Kay at X4351 
ANYBODY INTERESTED IN TUTORING 1ST AND 2ND GRADERS AT HARRISON SCHOOL IN S. BEND ON MON WED AND THURS AM, PLEASE CALL DOMINIC AT CLASS OF 96 (1-5136). SESSIONS WILL END 
BEFORE 10 AM. PROGRAM STARTS ON JAN 30 
TODAY!. SUMMER JOB FAIR-1 to 4:30p.m.-CCE, lower level­summer job opportunities. 
Desperately seeking ride to Padre for Spring Break. Will split gas and tolls in exchange. Call Bridget at x2702. 
Did you catch that fabulous Indigo Girls concert?? Remember that incredible opening band? well. ... 
THEY'RE BACK!!!! 
Friday night up in the Loft 9pm 
BAND DE SOLEIL 
with Notre Dame's very own 
TRUE NORTH only four dollars, .. look for the coupons to get in for even cheaper! 
Markie-Riding in my daddy's caddie huh? Now you just think you're all that and a bag of fritos with chili and cheese, don't you? Don't worry -I'll put you in check as soon as I can. Believe that or nothing at all. And believe this -you're my one, you're my only. There it is in black and white -what more do you want? Now be mine --and only mine. 
Faster than a speeding bullet from O'Malley's gun ...more powerful than a crippled floridan ...able to leap buildings (like 9 Henly Place) in a single bound ...watch out for AUDIT MAN!!!-COMING SOON!! 
Oh No! He gave me VD and 
Venereal Disease when we did it 
military style. P.S. SB sucks! 
Yoo Hoc! Oh Sexy Roomies 
How about a little game of beer 
pong -I feel like kicking a little butt 
Oh boy Yoda, Toll Road here we 
come!! I Maybe we'll get snowed in 
forever. darn! Then we'll have to 
watch the OJ trial until we go old 
and grey!! 
Becky, keep it in your own can next time and no one will ever know. swear, you need to learn how to be more worldly! Where are you from anyway? Love, the sweater queen 
-----~~--~------------------­

Thursday, January 26, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
-I 
l 

• SUPERBOWl 

Chargers confident of first Superbowl victory 
By BARRY WILNER spread. Throw them up against Associated Press perhaps the best team of the Super Bowl era. For good mea­
MIAMI 

sure. add in a recent rout at the 
To all the detractors and 
hands of that opponent, the San 
doomsayers who predict San 
Francisco 49ers. 
Diego has no chance in the 
Then watch them quiver.
Super Bowl, the Chargers de­
Well, not exactly. Not only 
clare: Pile it on! 
aren't the Chargers apologizing 
Load them down with the bal­
for making their first Super 
last of recent AFC failures. 
Bowl, not only are they expect­
Stack on the record 19-point 
ing to make a game of it, but 

fttJ GREAT 'YALL 
J~%~ CHINESE AMERICAN RESTAURANT &COCKTAIL LOUNGE 
~ Authentic Szechuan, Mandarin & Hunan Cuisine! 
SPECIAL CHINESE NEW YEAR BUFFET  $895 wec~.Jan.2g•11:30a.m.-3:oop.m.TIM. Jan. 30 • 5:00 p.m.-g:oo p.m. Fri. Jan. 31 • 5:00 p.m. • 8:00p.m.  
AU. YOU CAN EAT  Children Under 10 Half Price  

RECRUITING DATES: February 1, 2 and 3 at Career and Placement Services. Open to all majors. 
they are talking about winning the thing, something no AFC team has managed in a decade. 
"We know going into this game we are the underdogs as a team and as a receiving group," said Chargers receiver Tony Martin, whose 43-yard TD catch beat Pittsburgh in the AFC title game and got San Diego this far. 
"The thing about us is that we have a lot of heart. We have a lot of pride about ourselves. We don't let anybody tell us that we can't do something. If we did that, we wouldn't be on this team today. 
"We know that in our hearts we have enough character and enough pride about ourselves to go out there, and we're going to fight you tooth and nails the whole time." 
The Chargers can't avoid the 
GLACIER NATIONAL PARK, MONTANA 
Come have the best summer of your life. 
Enjoy the invigorating, challenging experience of living in the awesome Rocky Mountains. 
St. Mary Lodge & Resort, Glacier Parks finest, now hiring for the 1995 summer season. 
Come see us on campus on February 2nd and 3rd. Schedule an interview through your Career Development Center now. 
Don't pass up the opportunity of a lifetime. 

questions that, while phrased more kindly, basically ask: What are you doing here? 
Only twice in their NFL history have the Chargers made the conference championship game, losing in 1980 and 1981. They've been in the playoffs just five times since the merger, including the 1982 strike sea­son, when eight AFC teams got in. 
Few thought they would finish among the top teams in their division, let alone knock off Miami and Pittsburgh in the playoffs and place themselves opposite the awesome 49ers. 
"According to the national news and everything else, we're not supposed to be here," Junior Seau said. "The ratings of ABC will probably go down because of us. 
"But being the underdog is nothing new, and it's not going to hurt or help us. All it does is show you're not respected, and you're not to the level where you should be respected yet. And in order to do that, you have to do something rare, and that's to win a Super Bowl." 
San Francisco has won four of them, scored 505 points this season, beat the two-time champion Cowboys for the NFC crown and is loaded with tal­ent. 
Some say overloaded, which 
could lead to overconfidence, 
particularly since the Niners 
routed the Chargers 38-15 in 
December. 
"There is confidence and there is overconfidence, and I don't think this team is over­confident," said center Bart Oates, who won two Super Bowls with the Giants. 
"I think it is very confident. If you look at the accomplish­ments of the team, I think they justify a great deal of confi­dence. We have played well and we have won games the way we wanted to win games." 
Which means by dominating, scoring early, making big plays on defense, doing everything expected of a great team with four Super Bowl championships on its resume and an unprece­dented fifth supposedly a walkover. 
"That is the furthest thing from the way this team is han­dling this game," league MVP Steve Young said. 
"We're workaholics. We pre­pare. We understand the chal­lenge we face. We don't take ourselves lightly, nor do we take anyone else lightly. 
"We played the Chargers a month ago. We understand the challenges they pose and the roll that they're on," added Young, omitting the fact San Francisco won 10 straight be­fore a season-ending loss to Minnesota in a meaningless game for the 49ers. 
"We understand that teams can get on a roll and what they bring into this game. We're not fools, and we're not going to get trapped by this stuff. It's not going to happen." 
Foraboutadollaraday,·
bothwill giveyoutqe poweryouneed_to 




surv1ve this semester. 
Only $33.00 a month.* 

Macinlarh Performa' 636CD 

BAIB IIMV250MB hard drit•e, CD-1/0M drive 14" rolor monilor, keyboard, mouse andall/he softwareyouhi likely to need. 
conducive to saving money. In fact, they can leave you broke. But you can still buy thecomputer you want and not worry about payments until long after the decorations are down. The ~ Apple Computer Loan and 90-Day Deferred Payment Plan. The solution Ap 1 • that gives you the power every student needs. The power to be your best~ p1e . 
PAY NOTHING FOR 90 DAYS . 
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB •631-7477 M-F 9am-5pm 

'Deferm/Apple Computer Loan offer expires February 17. 1995. No payment ofInterest or principal will he requiredfor 90 days. (Some resellers may require a defXJSilto hold merchandise while loan is being approved) Interest aa:ruing during this 90-dayperiod will be addaito prlnci/XII. andtheprincipal amount, as so lncreared, will thereafter bear Interest which will be lnduded In tbe repayment schedule. 'Monlhly payment Is an eslimate based on apurr:base price of$1,93152, which lndudes 85% sales tax, for /be Macintosh Performa 636CD system shown above. Including loan fees, /be total loan amount is $2,044.00, which resuliJ In a monthly payment obi/gallon rf$3350. '/be IIIIJIIIbly payment above war caL:ulaled using an estimate ofsales tax In San Francisro. Ifthe applicable sales tax is 8.75% (Chicago) or 7.0% (Philadelphia), the monthly payment would be $3358 or $33.04, respectively. Computer system prices, loan amounts andsales /ax$s may llflr)'. Seeyour authorizedAjpk Campus 1/ese/kr or represenlllliLiefor current SJ~Iem prices, loan and tax amounts. Loans arefor a minimum of$1,000 to a maximum of$10,000. lbu may lllke out more than one loan, but/he Ioiii/ ofall loans cannot exceed $10,000 annually. A55% loan original/onfoe will be aJJeJto the requested loan amounl. 'f!le inleresl rate Is tJariable, based on the cammercial paper ra/e plus 535%. For the month ofNovember, 1994, /be interest rate war 10.85% and /be Annual Percentage //ate war 12.44%. 8-yttJr loan leml w1tb no prepayment penally. 7be fiUlnlb/y payment and the annual perrentage rate shown llSSU11reS tbe 90-day tAferment ofprincipal andinterest described above and no other deferment ofprincipal or interest. Studenls may defer principalpayments up to 4years, or untilgraduolion. DefermentWill changeyour IIUllllb/y payments. '/be Apple Computer Loan Is su!Jjed to credil approtJal. Ajpk Computer Loan and 90-Day Deferml Payment Plan offers atJailable only to qualifying studentsJacully andstaff Offers atJailabk onlyfrom Apple or an authorizedApple Compus 1/ese/kr or represenlaltve. (t'.J 1994Apple Computer, Inc. All rigbls resenled. Apple, lhe Apple logo, Macintosh, Performa and "Tbe power /o beyour best" are reglslered trademarks ofAppk Computer, Inc. Mac Is a trademark ofApple Computer, Inc. 

r---­
I 
page 12 
I 
I ~ 
Hoops 
continued from page 1 
eight seconds left Wednesday night and No. 8 Maryland held on for a 56-51 victory over Clemson. 
Smith, hitting nearly 60 per­cent of his shots this season, finished 8-for-8 from the field. But it came down to his defense on Rayfield Ragland's 3-point shot as Clemson cut a 13-point lead to 54-51. 
"I didn't want to give him an easy shot and that's what I did. I went flying in his face," Smith said. "I know he's a good 3­point shooter and I just made sure I put my hand up." 
Ragland, one of four Tigers in double figures with 10 points, said he thought he was clear of Smith. 
"I looked at the rim once, I looked and the rim twice and I thought I had four steps on him," Ragland said. "He went up with me and it was a clean block." 
Maryland (15-3, 5-1 Atlantic Coast Conference) has won four straight and nine of its last 10. Clemson (10-5, 1-5) lost its fifth in a row after opening the sea­son with 10 straight victories. 
Smith, who was held to eight points at Clemson a year ago, scored 11 in the first half. But was held largely in check after that as Clemson rotated for­wards Ragland and Greg Buckner on him.
I I ~ 
But as long as Maryland's 
I winning, Smith doesn't mind 
I not being the center of the of­fense. "If I'm not scoring, then someone else is," Smith said. "We've got a lot of scorers on this team that I don't have to be the star every night." Merl Code scored all his 12 points in the first half to lead Clemson. He had two 3-pointers in the final minutes. 
No. 10 Michigan St. 54, Minnesota 53 
Jon Garavaglia was a reluc­tant hero for No. 10 Michigan State after another of its down­to-the wire victories. 
"We shouldn't have to win many like that or our luck's going to run out," said 

The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, January 26. 1995 
Garavaglia, who hit a jumper from the left corner with 6.8 seconds remaining Wednesday night as the Spartans overcame their worst shooting night of the season to beat Minnesota 54-53. 
"It's exciting to win a game like that and it shows charac­ter, but we should have played better and we'll have to play better if we want to win the Big Ten," Garavaglia said. 
The victory was the fourth by two points or less for the Spartans (13-2, 5-1) over the past six games. 
"This is getting to be a habit and maybe it's a good habit," Michigan State coach Jud Heathcote said. "We've had a different hero every night." 
Voshon Lenard had given the Gophers (13-6, 4-3) a 53-52 lead with a jumper from the top of the key with 28 seconds left, but the Spartans worked the ball around until they found Garavaglia open on the base­line. 
"Eric (Snow) penetrated and (Minnesota) collapsed on him and Shawn (Respert) so I just tried to get open 1;1nd get ready to shoot," Garavaglia said. 
Minnesota inbounded the ball after a timeout with 2. 9 sec­onds, but Snow stole it from Lenard and ran out the final seconds. 
Snow finished with 13 points for Michigan State, while Lenard led Minnesota with 14. 
Michigan State, which leads the Big Ten in field-goal per­centage, shot only 36 percent against the Gophers. The Spartans' previous low was 42 percent in an overtime loss to Nebraska. 
A 3-pointer by Respert, who led the Spartans with 20 points, gave Michigan State a 50-49 lead with 3:45 left. There were three more lead changes before Garavaglia's winning basket. 
No. 16 Wake Forest 71; No. 15 Virginia 70 
As the senior leader for one of the better teams in the Atlantic Coast Conference, Randolph Childress knows better than to push the panic button because of one dismal half. 
"Forty minutes is a long time," he said. "Other people can get worn out, and if you stay patient, you never know what might happen." 
Childress scored 18 of Wake Forest's final 20 points Wednesday night, including the 



JAZZMAN'S 
NilE CLUB 
ft liD [l [l [E riD [E 
NIGHT TON IGHT! 
FEATURING: FREE 

admission before 1 0 PM with Student ID, theme nights, OJ and Liue Music, and 2 dance floors! Conueniently located at: 525 N. Hill Street (219) 233-8505 
BEGINNING FEBRUARY 7™ LEADERSHIP 
INSTITUTE 
an opportunity for outstanding freshmen and sophomores to attend a series of leadership development seminars 

deciding free throws with 5. 7 seconds to play, as the 16th­ranked .Demon Deacons rallied to a 71-70 victory over No. 15 Virginia. 
Childress, who came in aver­aging 18.4 points but had just seven in the first half, finished with 29 -all but 11 over the final 8:45. He also had seven assists as Wake Forest (11-3, 4­
2) won at University Hall for the third consecutive time and the fourth in six games. 
"I don't think I played one of my better games," said Childress, who took 22 shots and missed 14. "But mentally, I stayed tough, and that's what it's all about in this league. You've got to keep fighting." 
"I have never been around another player like Randolph," Wake Forest coach Dave Odom said. "He picks me up and the team up when we need it most. He never flinches." 
Virginia (11-5, 5-2) made just two field goals over the last 
3:53 and fell out of first place in the league. 
"Randolph Childress was Randolph Childress," Cavaliers coach Jeff Jones said. "He shot 8-for-22, which is not terrible defense." 
It was a typical game between two of the teams with the toughest defenses in the ACC. Twenty of the last 26 meetings between Wake Forest and Virginia have been decided by less than 10 points. This one featured 13 lead changes and eight ties. 
"We practice that a lot, and we couldn't have asked for a better shot," Jones said. 
Childress agreed. 
"Jamal had a great look," he said. "It was only by the grace of God that he missed it." 
Wake Forest center Tim Duncan had 15 points and 14 rebounds before fouling out at the 1:11 mark, and the Demon Deacons also got 12 points from Ricky Peral. His basket that cut Wake Forest's deficit to 60-59 with 5:50 left represented the Demon Deacons' only non­Childress points in the last 9:38. 
Virginia got 15 points each from Burrough and Deane, 13 from Robinson and 12 from Alexander. 
Wake Forest led 34-33 after a first half in which there were seven lead changes, six ties and neither team led by more than five points. Childress missed six of his seven shots in the half, including four of his five 3-point tries. 



BRUNO'S 
PIZZA NORTH 
GRAND OPENING 
HOURS: 'TILL 1 AM SUN­


FREE 
THURS 'TILL 2 AM FRI 

DELIVERY! 
AND SAT 

Tuesday nights from 7:00pm to 8:30pm in the Notre Dame Room 
Applications must be returned to the Student Activities Office by January 31. For an application and/or more information, contact the Student Activities Office, at 631-7308, 315 LaFortune Student Center. 
.-----------------­
-----~--------­
Thursday, January 26, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
•NBA 

Bucks see light of Day 
By JOHN F. BONFAITI 76ers on Wednesday night. Marty Conlon missed a 3-point Associated Press Philadelphia's Willie Burton shot with 7.6 seconds to go. was fouled with 1.2 seconds Teammate Glenn Robinson, PHILADELPHIA left, but missed both free who led Milwaukee with 29 Todd Day's 3-pointer with 2.6 throws. points, and then Philadelphia's seconds left gave the Milwaukee won its third in a Scott Williams tipped the ball Milwaukee Bucks a 98-97 vic­row on the road. before Day took the carom in tory over the Philadelphia The Bucks trailed 97-95 when front of the 3-point arc, stepped 
behind it and hit the shot. 
Burton, who scored 33 points, also missed one of two free throws with 16 seconds to play. 
• He hit 8-of-10 3-pointers in the game as the 76ers lost for the 12th time in 14 games. 
Robinson scored 12 of his 

d~~ ~~!! Altr~ • f~;n;.~s~nq~~~[~~2a:~~~t;~c~~ 
1803 St)Uth Bend Ave. ~~~;'hi ~o~ ~or the fifth time in their 
Campus Shoppes Plaza ~ a:u~~:~~:~~ missed his last 277-2974 · three games because of a
Not valid with any other offer. New customers only. 
~·~·~·~~~~~~~·~·=·~•~~~~~·•:·~·~·~~~~~~ sprained right ankle, gave the
: 76ers a chance to win by scor­ing 12 points in the game's final 5:15, helping Philadelphia elim­inate a 5-point deficit. Philadelphia whittled a 10­point Milwaukee lead early in the fourth quarter with an 11-2 run to trail 81-80 with 8:17 to play. Milwaukee increased its 3­point halftime lead to 8 going into the fourth quarter. Day, who scored 7 straight points toward the end of the third quarter, and Marty Conlon, who had 7 during the quarter, keyed the Bucks' third-quarter surge. The Bucks hit 8-of-10 from the floor in the last 5:30 of the first half to turn a 6-point deficit into a 57-54 lead going into the third quarter. Robinson led all first half scorers with 20 points. Burton shot 6-for-6 in the first half and scored 15 points. 
Want to impress everyone at the next 0 YQ by your dancin8 ability? 
Join the ND/SMC Ballroom Dance Club! 
Each Thursday in the 0tepan Center, we combine learnin8 cool dances like the 
jive, waltz, and tango 
with lots of fun. 
Come by toni8ht at 7 or 8::10 p.m. to check us out, and 
see which of the two classes is better for you.
\ 
(Those who participated in the 8:30 class last semester 
are invited to stay for the instruction offered at 9:20.) 

Questions-call Joe Cavataio at 4-1763 
•'W+:, . . . !J; ... 
BALLET-Instruction based ontraditional Russian tech· nique. Introduction to all lev­els with students being in· structed according to their level. Semester-long course that meets Tuesdays from 6;30.,.7:30 PM and Saturdays from 10~00 AM-noon in Rockne Rm. 301. The fee is $35.00 and you must register in advance at RecSports. A demonstration will be held on Sunday, January 29 at 12:30 PM in Rockne 301. Call RecSports atl-6100 for more info. 
X-COUNTRY BEGINNER SKI CLINICS . • The clinics will be held on the Notre Dame Golf Cc.)Urse and the cost for each clint~ is $5.oo with equipment rental available for $2.00 additionaL The clinlQs are January 28 at 
11:00 AM· deadline January 26; February 4 at 2:00 PM· deaqlit1e February 2. Register in advance at RecSports. For more info call 
1·~10(). 
DOWNHILL SKI TRIP • RecSports is planning a downhill ski trip for Friday, January 27 at Swiss valley. Bus leaves the library circle at 5:00 PM and returns at 
11:00 PM. The cost is $27.00 if you need to rent skis and $18.00 if you do not. Beginner lessons available free of charge. Register and pay .in advance at RecSports. Deadline is January 25. For more Info call RecSports at 1­6100. 
lATE NIGHT OLYMPICS ­Late-Night Olympics is an all­night sports extravaganza of competing Notre Dame and Saint Mary's residence halls. All proceeds raised from this event are donated to the St. Joseph County chapter of the Special Olympics. The date is Friday, February 3, but aU teams must register by Monday, January 30. For the name of your hall representa­tive, call RecSports at 1·6100. 

CROSS-COUNTRY SKI RENTALS-Rentals are avail­able to students. faculty, and staff. Rent skis, boots and poles. No reservations neces­sary, Check out 4:30-5:30 on Thursday and Friday and 
11:00 
AM· 2:00 PM on Saturday. Check in 4:30-5:30 on Friday andSunday and 

11:00 
AM-2:00 PM on Saturday. For rates and more info call Golf Shop at 1­6425 or RecSports at 1-6100. 


BENGAL BOUTS • training (lccurs daily at 4:00 PM at the JACC. Anyone interested should please contact Jeff Goddard at 2817-8041. 
CLIMBING WALL SCHED­ULE-The Climbing Wall will be open for use beginning Sunday. January 22. The hours will be Sundays 2:00· 5:00, and Tuesdays and Thursdays from 7:00-10:00. The climbing wall is located in the Rockne Memorial and anyone interested in using it must attend an orientation session. For more info call RecSports at 1·6100. 
IH FOOTBALL EQUIPMENT RETURN -The last opportu· nity to return football equip· ment is January 26 at gate 9 of the stadium from 2:15 ­3:15. 
NOTRE DAME MARTIAL ARTS INSTIUTE • Tae Kwon Do and Ju Jitsu beginner's practices start this Thursday, Jan. 26 from 5:30-7:30 in·Rm 219 Rockne and Sunday. Jan. 29. 6:30-8:30 in 219 rockne. Advanced practices Friday 6­8 and saturday lOam-12. For more info call Jamie at 1186 or Kyle at 3334. 


LAST CALL! LAST CALL! LAST CALL! 
1994 STUDENTS WITH MOTHER TERESA 

SAINT MARY'S SEMESTER AROUND THE WORLD PROGRAM OPEN TO ALL ND/SMC STUDENTS 
CHALLENGING ACADEMIC PROORAM FOCUSING ON THE ASIAN WORLD 16 SEMESTER CREDITS APPLICABLE TOWARDS CORE OR MAJOR REQUIREMENTS 
OPPORTUNITY TO TRAVEL AND STUDY IN MANY COUNTRIES OF FAR EAST, SOUTHEAST ASIA, SOUTH ASIA, EASTERN AND WESTERN EUROPE. 
COST: A SEMESTER'S SMC TUITION ,ROOM &BOARD PLUS A SURCHARGE. 
INFORMATION MEETINGS: 
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 25, 1995 7 P.M. HESBURGH LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
THURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 1995 7 P.M. SAINT MARY'S HAGGAR PARLOR 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION: DR. C. PULLAPILLY MADELEVA 336.SMC. 284-4468/4474 

r:-----­
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, January 26, 1995 
• BASEBALL 

Steinbrenner proposes theme park, Yankeeland 
~----·-~-------------.1 
By lARRY McSHANE Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
The city's continuing efforts to keep the Yankees in New York are now focused on building a theme park around their sta­dium -a Yankeeland in the South Bronx, officials said Wednesday. 
"A theme park might be a 
way to look at it," Mayor ballpark in New Jersey. Rudolph Giuliani said. " ... The State officials also are consid­idea is really to build around ering a proposal to build a new the stadium things that are con­ballpark on the site of Yonkers nected with baseball, connected Raceway if the Yankees turn with Yankee Stadium." down the city proposal. Gov. 
The plan, which could run as George Pataki wants to keep high as $600 million, was float­the team in New York state if it ed amid renewed speculation leaves the city. that Yankees owner George The city proposal would ad­Steinbrenner had again turned dress two of Steinbrenner's his wandering eye to a new major concerns -parking and the surrounding South Bronx neighborhood. Additional park­ing would be created, with direct access to the stadium from parking garages. 
A new Metro-North stop, also with direct access to the sta­dium, also would be part of the plan, Giuliani said Wednesday on Bloomberg News Radio. 
The city proposal "really opens up a lot of the space 
around Yankee Stadium so you can have facilities, stores, sports items," 
The plan was first brought to Steinbrenner's attention at a Monday morning breakfast with the mayor at Gracie Mansion. 
Steinbrenner has repeatedly complained that attendance at Yankee Stadium is-held down by the surrounding neighbor­hood. 

•NFL 
For Shanahan it's a matter of control 
Associated Press 
DENVER 
If he is offered a head-coach­ing job, Mike Shanahan says he wants control -to hire all of his assistants and to have ma­jor input on all personnel mat­ters. 
Shanahan, offensive coordina­tor of the San Francisco 49ers, is the first choice of Broncos owner Pat Bowlen to become Denver's new head coach. The Philadelphia Eagles also hope to interview Shanahan once the Super Bowl is over. 
NFL rules against tampering have prevented contact be­tween Shanahan and his prospective employers. But. during Tuesday's Super Bowl media session in Miami, Shanahan outlined what he would need to accept the job Bowlen is expected to offer him, or any other. 
Shanahan, a former assistant with the Broncos and head coach with the Raiders, said he wants to hire all of his assistant coaches. He wants a "strong say" in personnel decisions·, ranging from which free agents are signed to which college players are drafted. 
And he wants the final deci­
sion on which players are cut from the roster. 

"It's very basic," Shanahan told the Rocky Mountain News. "I think you have to be able to control it and you've got to be able to make the final deci­sions. If you don't, then you're not in control of our own des­tiny." 
The Broncos are likely to meet Shanahan's demands, which are the same options for­mer coach Wade Phillips had at his disposal. 
If Shanahan is granted most, if not all, of his wishes, he could be announced as the Broncos' coach early next week. If not, he could end up interviewing with the Eagles or deciding to remain with the 49ers. 
San Francisco officials have denied they offered to double Shanahan's $400,000 salary if he would stay. with promises that he would succeed head coach George Seifert when Seifert takes a front-office posi­tion. But they make no secret of their desire to keep him. 
"There is no question we don't want to lose him," club president Carmen Policy said. "And we're going to do what­ever we can do within the framework of reasonableness to keep him." 
Thursday, January 26, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
MOTHER GOOSE &GRIMM MIKE PETERS CLOSE TO HOME JOHN MCPHERSON • 





BILL WATTERSON 
SCOTT ADAMS 
YOU'RE. 
Sr\AMELESS. 
TI-\ERE.'S A FINE LINE. BETWEEN PARTICIPATION AND MOCKERY 
_/ 

DILBERT 
f"\AYBE WE COULD FOR-I"\ A VISION STATEMENT OF OUR 
CONCEPTS FOR. 
REQUIRE­f"\E.NTS 
" 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Lotto lures 9 Warehouse: Abbr. 13 Djibouti 
neighbor 14 Took it easy 16 Cut-and-dried 17 Antiphon, for 
one 19 Walrus feature 20 Logical abbr. 21 Provoke 22Compass 
heading 23 "The Age of 
Anxiety" poet 25 Economize 26 Smooth again, 
as soil 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

~....:.+:..:.a-:=+.::.~~~~:::::.~~~~ 
~~tjj-~£t~-~~
~ 
OR f"\AYBE WE CAN 
BOUND OUR 5TRAW­
MAN BY Tf-IE. 1"\IS.SION­CRITICAL FUNCTIONS OF OUR QUALITY 
vECTOR. I 
54 Tentacled mollusks 56 Informant 57 Switch's partner 58 Lawyerdom 59 Menu heading 61 Author Jong &2 One who's on the way out 63 Observed 64 Lookouts, e.g. 
DOWN 
1 Court employee 2 Bring into harmony 3 Beer, 
sometimes 4 Twist 5 Seed vessel & Unintelligibility 7 Hackneyed 8 Most downcast 9 Blackthorn 
10 Small mountain pools 
11 Rock's­Mountain Daredevils 
12 Dental device 15 Church beliefs 
18 Abrogate
23Actor­Tamiroff 24Ciamor 27 Related 29 Office need 
28 Abba hit song, 1975 30 Inverness 
negative 31 Lively 33 Bristle 
34 Treatment plan 37 Sisterly 39 Make 40 Precipitated, in 
away 42 Actress Joanne 43 Scandinavian 
flier 
44 Hired supporters at a performance 
48 Hired workers 51 Restless 53Young­
(tots, in dialect) 

h-.-+--+--+---+--1~+-+-­
32Chou­33Wordwith cream or ice 
cream 34 Passionate 35 Otologist's case 36 Weight lifters, at 
times 38 Count (on) 41 TV actor Erik 45 Book size, in 
printing 
46 Minister, at 52 Godwin's "The weddings Adventures of 47 Lauder et al. 
-Williams" 55 Zagros
49 Maynard's Mountains site "good buddy" 57 One of the of 60's TV 
Simpsons 5o Room 60 Hospital bed 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

[EMERGENCY) 
1-26 


·•.i! rJftu~J:t1 -
Slgnups. for the Wednesday Lunchfast will be in th dining balls on Thursday and Friday during the dinner h~@~. Ifyou p&J1i~iP'-ted last semester, you do not have to slgn up again. Any questions. call Amy at x43111. 
. . <q'F ill> 

l.frban Plunge Foltow Up video and discussion for anyoM irtterested. Video shown will be ..Down and Out In Ame · . " ~qdll,y ll.t4:30pm in Room 124, Center for Soei... .ceJ']lS. H>i 
+A. $u11Jmer "'C)b Fair will be heJd ftoml to 4:30pm 1 the Center for Continuing Education(CCE), lower level. Ml'"~ W:tth company representatives to discuss summer oppQrtunt~es; bring''copies of yout resume. Sponsoredby CIJJ' Placement Services. 
't~t Ch:riti;~ Volunteer Corp. (Twin Cities are~)~.~e atthe esc on Friday, January 27 from noon to 2:00I)m. · Grads .from last year who will be giving out irtfotmation are Stacy Constantineau, Sue Aarestad and KathleenH:enn. (Direct and irtdirect service drop-in, cen· ters, accounting, management postitions, etc.) 
A.l'llntetta$8 Forum will be held Sunday January 29 at CSC starting at noon. For more irtformation, call 

at1~9475. 
RC)~et]i. Evans from The Johns Hopkins Paul H. Nitze SchboJ ofAdvanced International Studies, Bologna Cell,ter will be giving a lecture entitled "Italian Politics: DoesltHave a<Future?" at 4:15pm iJ1 the Auditorium o the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
::·:/jf):·:. !.;.i{~k· 

The South'. Bend Alumnae Club of Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame. Indiana is offering a $1000 schol­ar~thip tQ female students planning to attend Saint Mary's in the fall of 1995. Call1~219-534-2464 for more infor­mation. ·· r!!fj'}S)]ji 1i: 
The German Club will have a meeting tonight at 7:00 
p.m> in the Sorin Room of LaFortune. Call Kristen Nannery at 4-3950 for more information. 
SOUTH Shrimp Poppers Fettuccirte Alfredo Cherry Crisp 






Acoustic Cafe 
Starts Back Up Tonight!!!! 




' .. SPORTS 
page 16 Thursday, January 26, 1995 
• TENNIS 
Irish open with rematch 
ByB.J. HOOD Minnesota is included in the Jakub Pietrowski, Ron Mencias, Sportswriter list of top twenty-five teams. and Steve Flanigan. Bayless Minnesota and Notre Dame met said the six starters would The Notre Dame men's tennis twice last year. They split the come from the seven previously 
team has its first match of the two meetings, with Notre Dame mentioned players. He also season on Thursday against winning the rematch in the said Brian Harris and captainMinnesota, a perennial power. championship game of the Horast Dzuira are key reserves. 
Notre Dame has been consis­Midwest regional. Speaking of Dzuira, Baylesstent in recent years as well, fin­

Minnesota has several players added, "He's a terrific captain,ishing in the top twenty in the 
returning from last year's and he provides the best lead­last five years straight. 
squad. Bayless also said ership of anyone since I've been Coach Bob Bayless feels this 
Minnesota has two great new­at Notre Dame." year's team will be a fair repre­
comers, including Stefan Bayless said the team's .. sentative of recent Irish teams, Tzvetkov, a transfer from Iowa strength was a lack of weak­and even has the potential to 
State. nesses, and the team has more rank within the top ten teams Returning for the Irish are depth than any team he has nationally. 
Ryan Simme and Mike Sprouse. ever coached. "Minnesota is a However, Bayless knows that 
Simme finished last season great team and I expect it to gowill be a difficult task. "We ranked sixteenth in the country tlown to the wire. It's a re­
could be a top ten team, but we and third regionally, while match from the championshiphave to win a lot of matches. Sprouse ended fifty-second in game of the Midwest regional,We'll know how we are right the country, and second region­and it should be a treat for away because in our first ten ally. fans. I hope we have a greatmatches we play seven top Other key returnees include crowd because we'll need it. 
twenty-five teams." 

John Jay O'Brien, Jason Pun, 

Calabria shoots down Seminoles, 100-70 
Associated Press During that spurt, the Tar I probably messed up my per­Heels had five 3-pointers. centages. I'm not happy about 
Dante Calabria led North North Carolina's previous that." 
Carolina's .----------, 
record for 3-pointers was 14, Kentucky (13-2, 7-0 record-set­accomplished three times, in­Southeastern Conference) reg­ting 3-point cluding against VMI earlier istered its seventh consecutive 
shooting 

this season. victory with a pressing defense Wednesday that forced Tennessee (7-8, 2­night, scor­No. 5 Kentucky 69, 5) to commit a season-high 27 
ing a 

Tennessee 50 turnovers and shoot a season­
career-high 
low 29 percent (15-for-51). 
26 points 

It was a night of 1,000 points "I think we should credit as the 
for Kentucky's Rodrick Kentucky," Tennessee coach third-ranked Tar Heels cruised 
Rhodes. Kevin O'Neill said. "They are a by Florida State. 
Rhodes scored a career-high great team, and they play a The Tar Heels (15-1, 5-1) 
29 points, becoming the 41st great defense. It'-s very hard to won their sixth straight game 
player in the school's history to work against their press." 
and moved into a first-place tie 
score 1,000, and led No. 5 Sheppard finished with 12 atop the Atlantic Coast 
Kentucky to a 69-50 victory points and Delk added 11 as 
Conference with Maryland, 
over Tennessee on Wednesday Kentucky shot 36 percent (23­who beat Clemson. Virginia's 
night. for-64) from the field. The loss at home to Wake Forest 
Rhodes, a junior forward, hit Wildcats scored 33 points off dropped the Cavaliers a half­a 3-pointer with 49 seconds to Tennessee's turnovers. 
game back. 

go as he was left in the game Center Steve Hamer led Florida State (9-6, 3-4) saw 
with reserves by coach Rick Tennessee with 18 points and ~ts three-game ACC winning 
Pitino in order to reach the 11 rebounds, while Williams streak come to an end despite milestone. had 10 points. 
a career-high 26 points from "When I had 26, Coach P set "We gave them a goodfreshman Corey Louis. 
up a play for me," said game," Hamer said. "We did­The Tar Heels, shooting 42 Rhodes, who missed three 3s n'tjust come to play." 
percent from long range com­
before hitting the career bas­"I think we did a good job of ing into the game, set a school 
ket. "Then everything got controlling the tempo," O'Neill record with 17 3-pointers. 
tight. My arms got tight. My said. "Our halfcourt defense Calabria, the nation's leading legs got tight." played well, but UK's just3-point shooter at 60 percent, 
It didn't go unnoticed by his played better." was 8-for-11 from 3-point 
teammates. 
range to tie the individual 
"Rod was fun to watch be­No. 8 Maryland 56, school mark, held by Hubert 
cause he was so impatient," Clemson 51 Davis. 
said Tony Delk, "but it finallyCalabria had three 3-pointers 
came his way." Only good things seem to in the opening five minutes to 
Rhodes didn't think it was happen when Joe Smith touch­start North Carolina's record important to reach the scoring es the ball. 
shooting performance, and the plateau in Rupp Arena. The stunning sophomoreTar Heels used a 19-0 run in ''I'm just glad I got it," he scored 17 points and blocked a 
the second half to put the Courtesy of Kentucky Sports Information 
said. "It didn't matter where. I potential game-tying shot with 
Rodrick Rhodes scored a career-high 29 points last night in a 69-50
Seminoles away after they had missed a lot of 3s (eight of 13). 
Kentucky win over Tennessee.
cut a 20-point deficit to eight. see HOOPS I page 12 


YANKEELAND 

Former San Francisco head coach and San Diego offensive 
In an attempt to increase attendance, coordinator Bill Walsh analyzes Steinbrenner is proposing a new stadium the Superbowl match-up. 
surrounded by a theme park. 
see page 10 see page 14 






