
Tuesday, May 2, 1995 • Vol. XXVI No. 132 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT iv1ARY'S 
Low turnout, bad weather dampen AnTostal 
By KRISTI KOLSKI 
Assistant News Editor 
When huge air toys, a lackluster Loftapalooza show, and a canceled concert are combined with South Bend's temperamental weather condi­tions, they can form only one thing: A festival called AnTostal, that was less than a huge success. 
• see EDITORIAL, page 7 
The annual event sponsored by Student Activities sought to drag students out their rooms by featuring activities and dorm competitions under the theme "The Quest for the Crown." 
AnTostal Co-chair Tom Brad­shaw felt that "overall, things were good, although Friday was a big success while events Monday through Thursday had a below average turn-out." 
"Things could have gone bet­ter, but rain on Wednesday and Thursday ruined two of our biggest days," stated Bradshaw. 
Hain forced many of the events to either be canceled or moved indoors. "We were counting on people participat­ing when just walking by, but the events were less appealing 
He's outta control! 
once moved inside," he said. 
Student Activities director, Gayle Spencer, agreed that weather was a factor, but also attributed many of the cancellations to a lack of plan­ning. "The commissioners did not make rain relocation plans in advance so things fell through," Spencer stated. 
Part of student disappoint­ment may also have been due to a lack of a big concert. Plan­ning for this event is centered around the Student Union Board's concert commission. Traditionally, SUB sponsors a concert that coincides with the week of AnTostal events. The band Digable Planets was scheduled to come, but plans were thwarted when Campus Security canceled it due to security concerns. 
Allyson Luck, fall semester director of programming for SUB, explained that "There is a lot of red tape to get through when dealing with the adminis­tration, so we are going to start planning a lot earlier." 
According to Luck, concert commissioner Rob Adams has already sent out campus wide surveys to see what bands stu­dents would come out for. 
The AnTostal festival was fur­ther dampened by a lack of events on South Quad. In years past, events were planned both on South Quad and the Field House Mall. According to Bradshaw, "we were under the impression that we would en-


The Observer/Rob Finch 

counter strong resistance from South Quad students." the administration if we tried to Co-chair Alex Mathews, re­do anything on South Quad." ferring to an AnTostal event Bradshaw felt that this factor last year that got out of control, may be attributed to "notice­ably less participation from 
see ANTOSTAL I page 4 

Rosenbush,Johnson awarded for leadership 
By lAURA FERGUSON 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
Saint Mary's student leaders gathered last night to "Celebrate a Leadership Com­munity" and in the process honored Georgeanna Rosen­bush and Marlene Johnson with the first Student Leader­ship Appreciation award. 
Rosenbush is the director of Student Activities and Student Government Advisor, and Johnson is the Assistant Direc­tor of Student Activites as well as the Student Activities Board advisor. 
This is the first year this award has been presented. It recognizes those individuals who have committed them­selves in preparing student government leaders for their roles of leadership and action, according to the awards cre­ators. 
"We recognize professors in the academic setting, but some­thing must be said for those outside of the classroom," said Noha El-Ganzouri, student body president for the 1994-95 academic year. "They (Rosenbush and Johnson) were the motivation for receiving this award because they have had such an influence on us." 
This award was created by several student leaders, includ­ing Elizabeth Broghammer, Fe­licia Tormabene Coleman, Audry Comrie, Melissa Peters and El-Ganzouri. 
The recipients for the award were nominated by the Saint Mary's community and re­viewed by a committee of stu­dent leaders. 
Although this year the recipi­ents received a glass trophy, in future years the names of the recipients will be engraved in a plaque outside of the Student Activities office, according to El-Ganzouri. 


Television host and super-alum Regis Philbin, surrounded by young fans, signs autographs on the side­lines of Saturday's Blue and Gold Game. 


Congress may eliminate financial aid options 
By lAURA FERGUSON S:iint Mary's News Editor 
The fate of the several stu­dent financial aid programs is still undetermined. but as the United States Senate drafts its proposals, new cuts could be considered. 
Accordin'g to a Washington based education association, some members of Congress may propose eliminating both Perkins Loans, and Supplemen­tal Educational Opportunity Grants (SEOG) in addition to the proposed elimination of the in-school interest exemption and the State Student Incentive Grant Program. 
According to Joseph Russo, director of financial aid at Notre Dame, the elimination of the Perkins and SEOG is a worst case scenario. 
"There are millions of dollars involved just at Notre Dame," he said. "The biggest federal program here is the Stafford Loan." 
These proposals would not eliminate student loans. They would just make loans more expensive because the bor­rower will be expected to pay the interest while still in school, not the federal government. 
For an incoming freshman this could mean that the cost to borrow would be 20 percent higher. This figure could go as high as 30 to 40 percent if the student continues into graduate school, explained Russo. 
The budget process began in the Senate late last month, and the House will follow the sec­ond week of May. 
"Although this is still in the proposal stage, a version has passed the House," said Russo. 
"There is a more moderate pos­ture in the Senate so perhaps something less dramatic will be proposed." 
Russo also encouraged stu­dents to focus on writing letters and calling senators to show their appreciation and to ask for the continued support of education. In particular, stu­dents can contact Dan Coats, a senator from Indiana who also sits on the Committee on Education and Labor. Senators from student's home towns could also be contacted. 
The Student Aid Hotline has been established for students who wish to voice their concern about these proposals. The number is 1-800-57 4-4AID and it will be toll free until May 15. Callers will be briefed on the proposed student aid cuts and prompted to tell their own story. 
"It would just take a couple of minutes to write, and it is espe­cially important for students borrowing," Russo said. "It is expensive to go to Notre Dame but to make the sacrifice even more expensive makes this a legitimate issue to express." 

page2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, May 2, 1995 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

Color 
me 


happy 

It's May and the R.A.'s are getting feisty. The hall is peppered with snotty signs that let you know that you will be fmed $69.99 for each inch your furniture is displaced out of its original posi­


tion. In August, the Jenny Shank 
.signs were made of Accent Design Editor welcoming pastel paper and were decorated with smiley faces and happy, romping bunnies. Now, the R.A.'s construction paper horde is depleted and puke green and orange signs inform us that, if we don't get the heck out of our rooms, Student Accounts will collect our frrstborn or right index finger -whichever we have left after purchasing this semester's texts at the bookstore. It's as if they didn't threaten us, we'd never leave for the sum­mer. "No, Jimmy, we can't go to South Bend this summer. Disneyland will have to do." 
I'm looking forward to getting back home where I can help myself to a healthy portion of Jello with things in it. Something about Jello cries out to my mom, "I am empty. Fill me!" She answers its plaintive cry, filling it with cabbage, cottage cheese, marshmal­lows, and anything else that complements the color of the Jello. God forbid the Jello and the things in it shouldn't match. "No, dear, you can't put Bacos in the lime Jello! That would be mixing warm and cool colors. Don't you have your color wheel with you?" 
At least Jello colors are straight-forward­

·not those pansy pseudo-colors many catalogs use to describe their clothing. "The Kiwi blouse is set off nicely by the Eggplant trousers and Newt socks." If they are going to give colors weird names, they should at least call them something cool, like Rory or Floyd. "Dear, I hope you're not washing your Rories and Floyds together! We can't have that!" 
It will be good to be home so my dad won't have to give me his weekly Farm Report. "Well," Dad begins, "there's a 10-mile-an­hour wind out of the northwest today with a 50% possibility of precipitation in the morn­ing and partially cloudy skies this afternoon. How is it there?" 
"Uh," I reply, my impeccable grammar and depth of thought making Dad glad he sent me here instead of buying a sports car, "it's, like, cloudy ... or something." 
It will also be nice to get home because it's easier to describe people there. I once over­heard my roommate on the phone asking: "Now, is Lloyd the guy with the pierced eye­brow or the guy with the pierced lip?" My brilliant deductive powers led me to conclude that she was not describing anyone at Notre Dame. If she were, the conversation would be something like this: "Now is Matthew the guy who was wearing the Mocha pants and the Rutabaga shirt?" 
Besides, I have big plans for the summer, like checking out Time/Life Mysteries of the Unknown books from the library. I would always check one of them out at a time, sandwiching it between a Hemingway and a Faulkner. But the librarian always knew. ·werewolves and Children ofthe Night will be due in two weeks," she'd shout, and moth­ers would grab their children and move them away from me, whispering, "That, Jimmy, is why we are not going to South Bend this summer!" 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Viewpoint Jamie Heisler Rae Sikula Gwendolyn Norgle Meaghan Smith Sports Production 
Megan McGrath Tara Grieshop Dave Treacy Susan Marx Graphics Lab Tech 
Chris Mullins Scott Mendenhall 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is publisned Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproducrion rights are reserved. 
• WORlD AT A GLANCE 
India's tribespeople fight to preserve their identities 
JAGI ROAD, India known as "the chicken neck." 
Deep inside a leech-infested teakwood India's tribespeople India's national newspapers and tele­forest near a fast-moving stream, two Tribal population Total population vision stations rarely report about this men sit at a bamboo table poring over area, and many Indians still regard it as Oxford and Webster's dictionaries. primitive. For decades the government 
The men are Tiwas, one of the 400 neglected its development. tribes in India, and they are writing the But all that is beginning to change. first dictionary of their language. The Today migrants from overpopulated tribesmen in India are descendants of India and Bangladesh are moving into the original inhabitants of the Indian the once-remote area. Businessmen and subcontinent before invaders began the government are investing there. sweeping southward from Central Asia Even satellite television is arriving. around 1500 B.C. Many live in forests These intrusions are threatening and wilderness areas and tend to be ancient ways of life, prompting some darker and shorter than average tribes to work hard to define and pre­Indians. Many have Asian features. serve everything from their black magic 
With 69 million people -about 7 per­to their folklore. "The tribals are going cent of India's population -they are through a slow, but steady renaissance among the country's poorest and most process," said Chittattukalam Kuriala, a backward people. Since India became Roman Catholic priest who has worked independent in 194 7, tribespeople have with tribal groups in the northeast for been shunned, discriminated against 22 years. and forced to give up hunting as forests For the Tiwa people in Assam, the shrank. But they have been left alone in largest and most developed state in the northeastern India, an area of high region, that means a dictionary. "When mountains, rivers and timberland that we have this dictionary, our language sits north of Bangladesh and is attached will get some respectability and so will to India only by a narrow strip of land Source: AP research AP be our tribe," Patar said. 
D'Amato withdraws invite to Liddy Gunman robs man returning money 
WASHINGTON PORTLAND, Ore. 

G. Gordon Liddy, the Watergate bur­First, he helped rip off $346,770 in one of the largest glar and talk-radio personality who automated teller scams in the nation's history. Then, advised listeners to shoot for the head if when he tried to return some of the loot, he was robbed. attacked by federal agents, was to be Not all went awry: The robber who robbed the robber the honored guest at Sen. Alfonse was caught and the bag containing the $60,000 was re­D'Amato's gala Republican fund-raiser. covered. Gallagher and four accomplices used a stolen But the invitation was suddenly pulled bank card to rob 48 ATM machines on Nov. 18. They Monday. "The committee is complying were able to make 724 withdrawals on phony ATM with the senator's wishes," Gordon deposits because a computer software problem at the Hensley, spokesman for the National Republican Senato­Oregon Telco Credit Union removed the usual $200 daily rial Committee, said in a terse statement. Liddy had limit on weekend withdrawals. Gallagher, who was on been slated to appear Tuesday at the GOP's "Salute to weekend release from jail, was confronted by a gunman Talk Radio," a private affair for about 400 big donors to Saturday as he headed to meet his lawyer to turn over the NRSC, a political money-raising organization chaired some of the cash to the Secret Service as part of his plea by D'Amato. Liddy was widely criticized for his having bargain. The man took off with the money, tossing some advised his audience that if federal agents raided their of it into the air as he was cornered by patrons from a homes, they should shoot at the head because agents bar a block away. Justin Morris, 20, of Milwaukee was wear protective vests. He modified his advice last week, charged with first-degree robbery, unlawful use of a saying the head was too hard to hit "so you shoot twice weapon and possession of a controlled substance. to the body, center of mass, and if that does not work, Gallagher, 40, and the four other ATM robbers have then shoot to the groin area." pleaded guilty. 
Woman pleads guilty in bar killing Student assaulted at school by man 
VIRGINIA BEACH, Va. MIAMI 
A waitress who had been fired from her job at a bar A man abducted a woman and her child Monday and pleaded guilty Monday to murder in the shooting deaths took them to a high school classroom, where he threat­of the owner, two employees and a patron. Denise R. ened to shoot the hostages unless the female students Holsinger, 30, had told an acquaintance shortly after she took off their clothes, police said. One girl was sexually was frred last June that her former boss was "going to assaulted. A janitor and a band director who walked into get his," prosecutor Robert Humphreys said. Bar owner the room wrestled the man to the ground and held him Lamvan Son and three others were shot to death at the for police, said investigators and officials at Miami Witchduck Inn on June 30. Ms. Holsinger's boyfriend, Springs Senior High. "He threatened to kill the woman Michael Clagett, goes on trial June 26 and could get the and child, pointing the gun at the child unless the girls death penalty as the alleged triggerman Ms. Holsinger disrobed," said police spokesman Juan Del Castillo. pleaded guilty to four murder charges, as well as robbery Some of the 12 girls, piano students, started to comply. and weapons offenses. She could get up to five life terms "The gun was actually a BB gun, and they didn't know plus 23 years at sentencing July 19. She would not have that," Del Castillo said. Del Castillo did not know the faced the death penalty had she gone to trial. Ms. man's name or age. He said police were questioning the Holsinger bowed her head and covered her eyes as man and the students, and charges were pending. The Humphreys, introducing gruesome photographs of the abduction was being investigated by police in Hialeah, victims as evidence, described the wounds made by shots another suburb bordering Miami Springs. It appeared the fired into the head of each. Relatives of the victims wept victims were chosen at random, Del Castillo said. He did quietly. not know the identity or ages of the woman and child. 
• NATIONAL WEATHER 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, May 2. 
C 1995Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Prsssuro 
H L rn ISS! [Til 0 . fZJ 8 i) ~ u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PrCLOUDY CLOUDY 
VIa Associated Ploss 





• RESIDENCE HALL ASSOCIATION • BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 

Review clarifies goals for upcoming year 
By PEGGY LENCZEWSKI 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
Cooperation was the key to success this year for Saint Mary's Residence Hall Associa­tion (RHA), according to for­mer President Jenn Cheribini. 
RI-IA, whose primary purpose is to represent residents in pol­icy decisions, had several goals at the beginning of the year. 
Cheribini said that the group was extremely successful be­cause "a well-rounded group of people came together and worked well together." 
· One of the primary goals of HI-lA this year was to increase the group's visibility. According to moderator Collette Shaw, "RHA is only about five years old, and we worked hard to let other peo­ple know about the group." 
According to Shaw, the num­ber of participants in Little Sibs Weekend doubled, and the number of participants in the regional and national Hesidence Hall Association conferences also increased. 


The Observer 

is now accepting applications 
Sports Photo Editor 
Those interested please submit one page personal personal statement to Robert Finch, 3rd floor LaFortune. Any questions call Rob at 631-5323 or 634-4127. 


• • • Appear In• our RESUME BOOKS 


Deadline: Before you leave campus in May! 

Placement Services 
Accoding to Cheribini, "We accomplished most of our goals successfully. We sponsored a family in South Bend and donated money to a homeless shelter." 
RHA faced problems with at­tendance and participation, ac­cording to Cheribini. "Hall Councils had their own events to run, so it was sometimes hard to find people with enough time for RHA events." 
Cheribini said that "RHA was a team effort. There was enough participation that awareness was increased, and everyone was very helpful." 
Next year's RHA board will be headed by President Tara Hooper, who was unavailable for comment. 
Cheribini said the new board "will work on continuing many of the goals we set, especially publicity. It's a well-rounded group of women working together who have set realistic goals. I think they'll do a great job," she said. 
"They've set a lot of goals I hope they'll follow through on," she said. 

WVFI, relations on agenda 
By MARILYN ALIOTO 
News Writer 
"Last April we set three goals: 1) to better the student social space in Haggar Parlor, 
2) to try to receive WVFI fre­quencies and 3) to expand SURV (Spes Unica Resource Volunteer Center)," said former BOG President Noha El­Ganzouri. She said "our long term goal was to establish a union for students only." 
In order to accomplish this, EI-Ganzouri and her '94-'95 Board of Governance needed to set short term and realistic goals. "We wanted to find out what the students wanted," she said. In order to do this BOG sent out surveys to the entire student body. When the results came back, there was an over­whelming demand for cable installation. "Over 80% of the students surveyed felt that this service was needed to improve Haggar" said EI-Ganzouri. 
BOG members also formed a committee to determine the purpose of Haggar, a menu change, the installation of a large screen television., better lighting, and cable. When cable was installed in April, it was a huge hit. "I want to applaud BOG for listening to the needs and desires of the student body," commented Freshman Kristin Liptak. 
As for the additional Haggar Renovations, El-Ganzouri sat down to a recent meeting with the interior designer, Dan Deeter (Coordinator), and the newly elected BOG President, Sara Sullivan, to discuss the possibility of having the Haggar renovations completed over the summer. 
Next on El-Ganzouri's agenda was WVFI radio station. "We saw a need to either pick up the AM frequencies or finan­cially help the station go FM," said El-Ganzouri. At present, the WVFI Project is in the hands of the new board and will be further addressed in the fall. SURV received a raise in funds from BOG this past year and a director was appointed to oversee the organization 

During El-Ganzouri's term, BOG sponsored the first joint forum in more than a decade to discuss student relations be­tween Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. "Improving relations is a prominent issue on both cam­puses," she said. According to El-Ganzouri, the best thing to come out of the ND-SMC Relations Night was a "list from both ND and SMC students who are now going to form a com­mittee to work together to try to improve relations". Notre Dame representative Mike Flood attends BOG meetings under the new board and will continue to do so in the fall. 
Of the other strides made during this past school year, BOG set up a calendar that is placed outside of the Student Activities Office. This is an im­portant source of information because according to El-Gan­zouri, "It announces events ranging from student lectures to concerts and is in close con­nection with the professors and student body leaders in order to keep on top of the latest hap­penings on campus." 
BOG also sponsored other events throughout the year in­cluding: African American Week, Women's Fair, Play of the Mind and Women's Health Week. A Leadership Retreat, which took place April 8, "was an important weekend that not only united the leaders on cam­pus, but enabled us to come to­gether to set our own goals and become aware of the goals of other organizations," said El­Ganzouri. She added that "the retreat let student leaders 
.,b.~ GREAT \YALL 
Banquet rooms available for up to 200 

(219) 272-7376 • 130 Dixieway S. (U.S. 31 in Roseland) at Randall's Inn South Bend. IN 

Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant 1991, 1992, and 1993 
Szechwan•Cantonese•American Chinese Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 days 
r-Sunday Buffet Brunch-Every Sunday ­$8.95 for Adults $3.95 for Children under 10 
know that in order to build a strong community and enrich an institution, it must start with the students." 
El-Ganzouri thanked her '94­'95 board when she said "the most important and wonderful thing is to be able to work together for a common goal with individuals that really care." She points out that "BOG's success this past year is due in part to the resources and advisors who are the heros behind us because we are only as good as they are." 
As for the '95-'96 board, headed by President Sara Sullivan, they have already begun to pick up where last year's board left off. The plans for next fall include the contin­uation of the Haggar Renovation Project along with some new ideas. 
Club LYFE (Live Your Faith Everyday) is in the works for BOG. It is described as a "light­hearted retreat from school and studies once a week," says Sara Nienaber, an endorser for the group. Club LYFE will be introduced next fall on Activities Night. 
BOG approved a preliminary budget for next year and agreed to co-sponsor an ap­pearance made by Ambassador Carlos Fuentes. He will be a guest speaker at St. Mary's sometime next fall. BOG also approved a motion enabling the Sisters of Neffertti to join the Urban League. The members of this group will work with the children of the South Bend community, promoting literacy. 
The Sisters of Neffertti will also be involved in a group called Unity in which they would act as big sisters to girls in high school and form dis­cussion groups to talk about the difficulties of being an African­American woman. 
page4 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, May 2, 1995 
Natives: St. Helens embodies 'spiritual forces' 
By TIM KLASS Associated Press 
Warring gods, black snow and deities represented by mountains are central features of native folklore focusing on volcanoes in the Cascade Range. 
To the Yakama, Klickitat, Cowlitz, Multnomah, Puyallup, Nisqually and other American Indians of the Pacific North­west, peaks like Mount St. He­lens embodied supernatural and spiritual forces. 
The Colvilles and Spokanes of north-central and eastern Washington state used the term "black snow" to describe gritty dust that darkened skies and filled the air following erup­tions they could not see. 
The Klickitats, living mostly east and south of St. Helens, called it Tah-one-lat-clah, or "Fire Mountain." 
St. Helens, known until 1980 as the Mount Fuji of America for its symmetrical, snow­capped summit, was linked in many accounts with other vol­canoes, especially Mount Adams, to the east, and Mount Hood, across the Columbia River in Oregon to the south. 
One begins with the "Bridge of the Gods," a stone span over the Columbia near the modern­day site of Cascade Locks, Ore. Loo-Wit, a toothless old woman, was posted by the Great Spirit to guard the bridge and keep peace between two brothers, Pahto and Wyeast. 

Nonetheless, they began throwing white-hot rocks at each other until the bridge col­lapsed, leaving a perilous rapids. 
Loo-Wit was burned, and her cries of pain caused the Great Spirit to transform Pahto into Mount Adams and Wyeast into Mount Hood. Loo-Wit was given the shape of a young maiden ­Mount St. Helens. 
In another version, Loo-Wit gave fire to the cold and hungry Indians and was rewarded by being changed into a young woman so fair that Wyeast and Pahto waged war for her affec­tions. 
Even after they were trans­formed into mountains, the war continued until a fiery boulder launched by Wyeast silenced 


Teenagers still face prison 
Indian youths can still be sentenced despite alienation 
By PEGGY ANDERSEN 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE 
Two teen-age Indians still face prison time for robbery, despite a judge's suggestion that their banishment to re­mote Alaskan islands could lead to reduced sentences, an appeals court ruled Monday. 
"A standard-range prison sentence inescapably awaits" Adrian Guthrie and Simon Roberts, who are spending 12 to 18 months in the wilderness to atone for robbing and beat­ing a pizza delivery man with a bat, the state Court of Appeals said. 
The court said its order did not mean the boys had to cut short their island stints. 
They can renew their motion for a delay of their state sen­tences, the court said, so long as they realize they face stan­dard penalties once the ban­ishment is over. 
Roberts and Guthrie, both 18 and members of the Tlingit tribe from Klawock, Alaska, pleaded guilty a year ago to as­sault and robbery in Everett. 
Snohomish County Superior Court Judge James Allendoer­fer delayed sentencing during the banishment, characterized by tribal judge Rudy James as an exercise of self-discovery, atonement and possible restitu­tion. 
James said Monday the teens' exile would continue and he would consult a tribal attorney to determine how to respond to Monday's ruling. 
"We're not going to be antag­onistic ... but we won't throw in the towel yet," he said. He said the ruling might be appealed to the state Supreme Court or the 
U.S. Supreme Court. 
WNDU needs a vacation relief technician for summer employ­ment from May through September to install, operate, maintain, and repair radio, television, cable, and satellite equipment. This is 
.ideal for a technically-minded science/engineer student with a knowledge of electricity and electronics. The position is for up to 40 hours per week, includes shiftwork, and requires a valid dri­ver's license and transportation. Please apply at the WNDU Studios by May 5'h. 


ATTENTION COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION SOPHOMORES 
If you are interested in serving on the College of Business Administration College Council please submit your resume to Assistant Dean Sam Gaglio, Room 132 Hayes-Healy Center, no later than May 3, 1995. 
If you need more information call 63 1-6602. 

The teens, 16 at the time of the attack in 1993, were charged as adults. Guthrie faces a prison sentence of 31 to 41 months and Roberts, who wielded the bat, faces 55 to 65 months. 
In allowing the banishment last summer, Allendoerfer told the teens he had "made no promises" and that "we're back to square one" when they returned to his court in March 1996. 
But he also said the Legisla­ture by that time might have "modified the court's authority to deviate from the state sen­tence" and that their behavior might provide him with grounds for an exceptional sen­tence. 
That was improper, the three-judge appeals court said, "because an offender's conduct after the crime cannot justify an exception ... (and) a court may not delay sentencing to see if the law will change." 
Ace ~our fina 
Pahto, giving Adams its round­ed massif in contrast to the jagged peak of Hood. 
Johnson Meninick, a Yakama cultural specialist, says he was taught as a boy that St. Helens was the youngest of five moun­tains, preceded by Mounts Hood, Rainier, Adams and the oldest, Spud Butte, east of Adams. He also said he was taught that the volcanoes usu­ally erupt in sequence, making Hood likely the next to go. 
U.S. Geological Survey re­search has found St. Helens is the youngest and most active of the Cascade volcanoes, and its eruptions have coincided close­ly with those of Hood. 
In Northern California and southern Oregon, the Klamath 
AnTostal 
continued from page 1 

echoed the strong sense of re­sistance from the administra­tion. "Because there was an egg fight on South Quad last year we were strongly discour­aged from doing anything there again," Mathews said. 
Contrary to these claims, Spencer blamed the AnTostal commission for tardiness in planning South Quad events. 
VillagemUEDamd(Rl4:30,7:00,9:15 llllllrfBoy(PG13) 5:15,7:30, 9:45 Kiss m 5:15,7:30, 10:00 
Sluart Smally(PG13l5:00, 7:15, 9:30 Jefferson in Paris (PG13) 4:00, 7:00, 10:00 Jury Duty (PG13) 5:15,7:30, 9:45 

and Modoc Indians told of a cataclysmic battle between the sky spirit chief SkeU, who lived atop Mount Shasta, and Llao, spirit chief of the underworld, who dwelled within Mount Mazama. 
Red-hot rocks the size of hills were hurled, igniting forest fires that drove the people to seek refuge in Klamath Lake. 
Finally, two medicine men sacrificed themselves by leap­ing into the fire pit atop Mazama, giving Skell such in­spiration that he prevailed in battle, beheaded his rival and cast the head into the fire pit. The heat subsided, the tears of those who mourned Llao filled Crater Lake, and the head is known today as Wizard Island. 
"They could have had some events on South Quad if they had only planned ahead," Spencer stated. 
With AnTostal '95 at a close, the focus is now on making next year better.The chair for AnTostal '96, Kerry Van Voris, plans to "make advertising stronger for next year and to pray for good weather because so much of AnTostal's success depends on good conditions." 
•KISS ol 01111001) 12:55,3:20,5:48,8:00,10:20 •foi'1'8SI GUJDp(PG) 1:00,4:00.7:00,10:00 •Dolores Clllb11'1l8(11) UD,4:05,7:10,10:10 •lbe CUre(PG·13l 1:05,3:30,5:50,8:05,10:25 •CIPCIB ol F1'1ends(PG·13) 1:30,4:20,7:20,8:50 •Don Jnan DeMarc~G-13) 12:50,3:10,5:30,7:45,10:05 •Major Payne(PG-13) 1:10,3:25.5:45,7:55,10:15 •MID'Iels Weddlng(R) 1:35.4:10.7:05,8:45 
•
Tall Tale(PG) 1:25,3:35,5:35 •ElotlcB(II) 7:48,9:55 

•Pebble 
and llle Penguln(G) 1:15,3:05,5:00 


•Tile Madness ol King GeoPue{PG·13) 7:15,0:40 $1 7:1 ALL SEATS llHOilt 6 Pl.l
*tiO PASSES -SUI>W$AVE11S ACCEPTE() 

HOURS: 
Monday-Thursday 
11 :00 a.m. -1 :00 a.m. 
Friday & Saturday 
11:00 a.m.-3:00a.m. 

ms courtesy of a 
sunday 

I  -­!~~[!}-~(J)~[j}~ _[ilj~~!­Nifty Nine-Fifty , I Late Night Special  ,  I  -2~~w~::::·_ One 77"Large  ,  
I I I I I  1-16" Extra Large Two Toppings$950 ~  I I I I I I I I II  (9:00p.m. until closing) 1-14" Large 1Topping Pizza$ 9 5 5~  I I II I I I I II  fl§ne Topping695 Ti 14" Large One Topp0g5$11 ~  I I I I I  
I  Addilionm Toppings $1.25 each. Not valid with any olher coupod  I  I  Additional Toppings 95c each. Not ralid with any other COIJfJUtl.  I  I  Addiliooal Toppings 95c each. Not valid with lilY other coupon.  I  

~-------~~-------~~-------~ 
------~-~-----~--~~-----------------------~----­

• CAMPUS BRIEFS 
The parking lot west of Notre Dame's main gate will be closed for six weeks beginning Wednesday, May 3, to allow for continued utility construction on the University's new West Quadrangle. 
Faculty and staff assigned to "the lot m·ay park in the visitor lot south or the Hesburgh Cen· tor for International Studies. A ''Kontrol Kard," which is nec­essary to exit the parking lot without charge. can be ac­quired from the parking ser­vlees office, room 117. in the Campus Security Building. 
A temporary road has been constructed to facilitate deliveries to the Morris Inn loading dock. For more infor­mation on deliveries, contact David Herr at 631-2010. 
Sarah Badger, a University of Notre Dame senior from Jor­dan, N.Y. will receive the Uni­versity's 1995 Charles and Si· mone Parnell Award, accord­ing to Isabel Charles, associate provost and director of Notre Dame's international studies programs. 
The Parnell Award is pre· sented .a.nnually to a Notre Dame or Saint Mary's senior who has participated in the. University's Angers, France, international studies program 1md who has demonstrated a high level of lntarnatlonal fha Parnell Award hfmade. awareness. possible .by a gift fr.ont Charles · 
Badger, a government and Roedig, professor e~eritus. of. French major, who studied in rom~nce languages and litera• Angers her sophomore year, tures.lo honor Charles Parnell1 has been an active promoter of also professor emeritus of.ro~ the program for the past two mance languages and Hteta• years, assisting Paul McDowell, tures; and his wife, Simi:n1e, the program's on-campus fac. Both Parnells were ill$trumen~ ulty coordinator, with recruit• tal in founding the Angers pro· mont and orientation meetings. gr~;~,m . at the Universite This semester she was the as~ Catholique de l'Ouest, and slstant director of a French Charles Parnell directed the play, "Le Tartuffe," in which program in 1966-68, 1972~74 many former Angers students and 1982-83. participated. The award includes a cash 
prize and a plaque. Nomina-> 
Badger recently was accept-tions are made by juniors and ed as a volunteer in Notre senlorsintheAngersprograll1. Dame's Alliance for Catholic • • • Education {ACE). which pro• Kevin Minbiole, a junior bid· vides committed Catholic chemistry major in the honors teachers for understaffed program· at the UnivE)rsity of parochial schools while offer-Notre Dame, is a recipient ofa ing its volunteers intensive GoldWater ScholarshiP award. teacher training and A natiVe of Northport, N.Y.; he opportunities for personal is curreritlystudyingahroad in growth In a Christian commu· London. · nity setting. She hopes to · The scholarship Minbiole re• teach high school French in the ceived will cover tuition, fees, program. . books. and room and boardfor 
Badger also has worked as up to $7,000 per year. an intern with Families The Goldwater Scholarship Involved in Rehabilitative and Excellenceiri Education Environments {FIRE), supervis~ Foundation awarded 21S5. ing visits between parents and scholarsl;J.ips forJhe 1995-9~ children separated because of acad,emic year to undergradt.t;< abuse, and has been a voluri~ ate sophantores ~tnd jl,lnion;. teer at the St. Joseph Catholic The scholarnvere selected, 011 Worker House in South Bend, · academic medt fr6m.more 
tb~n 1,300 mathematics. sci· (!!nee and engineering students :nominated by colleges and universities' faculties nation· Wide. ····The Goldwater ·Foundation is a federally endowed agency as­tablished in 1986. .The scholarship program honors tlle late Sen. Barry Goldwater and is. designed to encourage outstaJiding students to pursue careers in mathematics, the naturalsciences and engineer­ing. 
University of Notre Dame 

sophomore· Jolene Smith of 
Ryan, Iowa. has won a scholar­
ship for study abroad during 
the 1995-96 academic year 
from the National Security 
··Education Program. 
. An economics and Spanish 
major, Smith will study at the 
Pontiticia Universidad Catolica 
in Quito, Ecuador, focusing on 
the clash between indigenous 
culture and modern philoso­
phies. 
The National Security Educa­

tiQri Program provides Ameri­
can undergraduate students 
with scholarship support to ac­
quire skills and experience in 
le$s ~qmmonly studied Ian· 
guages and cultures. It is 
~);loJ}sored by the Institute of 
International· Education. 
page 5 

Glenn Rosswurm has been named assistant director of planned giving at the University of Notre Dame, according to Michelle Shakour, director of planned giving. 
A 1987 graduate of Indiana University, Rosswurm received his juris doctor degree from the Notre Dame Law School in 1991. As a law student, he was book review editor of the "Notre Dame Law Review" and received the William Kirby award for excellence in memo· randum writing in 1988. 
Following his graduation from law school. Rosswurm was a trial section associate with May, Oberfell and Lorber In South Bend, Ind. In 1993, he opened his own law firm specializing in state and feder­al mediation. 
Notre Dame's office of planned giving administers gifts received by the University through estates, trusts and similar arrangements. Rosswurm's duties will include expanding the office's pro­gramming and educational materials. visiting with University alumni and friends nationwide, and working with the Theodore Badin Guild, Notre Dame's honorary recog­nition society for planned gift benefactors. 
Recycle The Observer 

!Engagement Rings 
10%-15% OFF! 


Official Wholesale Price List! 
S.A. Peck & Co. 
55 E. Washington, Chicago, IL 60602 Fur a Fru 32-Pagr Color Catalog 

I. Toll-Fret (800) 922-009~ F!t;;: (312) 977-0248 
l~..:::~' CmoJoG at #Jup: llwww.lapeck.com/sapet:k 





Baby Richard 'interacting' with family 
By MIKE ROBINSON 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
Baby Richard fed ducks, looked through books and talked on the phone with his adoptive family Monday, his first full day with the biological parents who fought for four years to raise him. 
The blond 4-year-old hit it off reasonably well with Otakar and Daniela Kirchner, said their lawyer Loren Heinemann. 

"They were interacting," Heinemann said. "I won't say they were bonding right away, but they were interacting. Things were OK." 
On Richard's first night in the Kirchners' two-bedroom sub­urban apartment, his biological parents slept on the floor in his room to allay any fears, Heine­mann said. 
"He got a little weepy during the mid-evening-basically, 
-----~---~-----·-----------, 
Session I-May 18 to June 23 Session II -June 26 to August 3 
There are some good reasons to take classes at Holy Cross College this summer. Perhaps you could benefit from one or both of our summer sessions, each offering a wide variety of quality general education courses. Or maybe our affordable summer tuition rate of $140 per credit hour sounds appealing. 
Whatever the reason, Holy Cross College summer sessions can offer you the opportunity to use your time more productively during the upcoming summer break. You can take advantage of our exceptionally small classes, dedicated and caring faculty and our convenient location just to the west of the University of Notre Dame campus. And, of course, credit earned is transferrable. 
So why not write or call today for more information about Holy Cross College? Applications for Summer Sessions I and II, as well as for the 1995 Fall Semester, are now being accepted. 
* HOLY CROSS COLLEGE 
Office of Admissions P.O.Box 308 o Notre Dame, IN 46556-0308 
(219) 233-6813, ext. 22 o Fax (219) 233-7427 
© 1995 

the 1-want-to-go-home type of thing," Heinemann said. "Then he came out and had a little snack." 
The state Supreme Court granted Kirchner custody in January, ruling the adoption was illegal because he'd been told the child was born dead. Kirchner took custody Sunday. 
The child's adoptive family, Kimberly and Robert Warbur­ton, took him home when he was 4 days old. They are iden­tified in court papers only as John and Jane Doe. 
His biological mother was un­der the mistaken belief that Kirchner had abandoned her and told him the boy had died. 
When she told him the truth, their child was 57 days old. He launched his custody battle, and the couple later married. 
The battle prompted Ameri­cans to re-evaluate adoption laws in light of the best inter­ests of the child and the rights of the biological father. 
Mrs. Kirchner gives facials in a beauty parlor. Kirchner is an unemployed restaurant man­ager. He wants to spend a few months getting to know his son, then go back to work, Heinemann said. 
Richard was raised Lutheran, while the Kirchners are Roman Catholic. The Kirchners will now attend a Lutheran church, Heinemann said. 
CONGRATULATE YOUR FAVORITE GRADUATE! 
Reserve this sPace for onlY $20. or something a little bigger ·for a little more! Call 219-631-6900 for info or send a Picture and something to say with a check to: The Observer PO Box Q Notre Dame IN 46556 by MaY 16th! 

a sort ofplay 
by A.R. Gurney A Faculty Recital Featuring Katie Sullivan Mike D. Morris 
Thursday and Friday, May 4 and 5, 8 p.m. Moreau Center/Little Theatre Admission Free 
Depanment of Communication,
Saint Ma~·s Colle~ 

Dance a.Thea!NNOTRE DAME· INDIANA 

~---­
---~--~-----­
page 6 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, May 2, 1995 
FBI releases new sketch of bombing suspect 
Profile given of the elusive 'John Doe 2' 
By ROCHELLE HINES 
Associated Press 
OKlAHOMA CITY 
The FBI today released a new sketch of the man sought in the federal building bomb­ing, giving the public a profile view of the suspect known as John Doe 2. 
The announcement came as rescue workers prepared to turn the task of removing the remains of some 60 people missing in the blast to machines that can safely clear rubble from the shaky shell of the building. 
FBI Special Agent Weldon Kennedy displayed a sketch of a stocky man in a baseball cap seen at the location of the April 19 blast with Timothy McVeigh, who is charged with the na­tion's most deadly act of do­mestic terrorism. 
Kennedy provided a few new tidbits of information: John Doe 2 is "very tan" and muscular, and may be a weightlifter. 
"He should be considered armed and very dangerous," Kennedy said. 
Another lead emerged when Arizona state police announced 


Farrakhan plot goes to trial 
Shabazz accused ofplanning to kill father's rival 
By JEFFREY SHELMAN 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS 
Amid allegations of a gov­ernment plot to further a split in the civil rights movement, a daughter of Malcolm X's is be­ing tried on charges she plotted to kill Louis Farrakhan, a rival of the slain civil rights leader. 
Qubilah Shabazz is accused of trying to hire a hit man to mur­der the fiery Nation of Islam leader because she believed he had a hand in the 1965 assas­sination of her father. The the FBI is looking for an Ari­zona license plate registered to a man believed to be a possible witness to the bombing. 
Arizona plate JWK923, is be­lieved to belong to a 1981 White Thunderbird driven by Gary Allen Land, said Sgt. Dave Myers, spokesman for the Arizona Department of Public Safety. He was last seen at a hotel in Vinita, Okla., Myers said. 
Tom Crafton, manager of Deward and Pauline's motel in Vinita, said FBI agents came in car and in helicopter Saturday night to "check out a guy who had been here." 
Crafton says the man they were looking for stayed the night of the bombing. 
The death toll rose to 137, in­cluding 15 children. Fifty peo­ple are officially listed as miss­ing. 
Fire Chief Gary Marrs said a huge backhoe would be brought in to drag the pulver­ized wreckage the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building clear of the building's dangerously unstable skeleton. 
Marrs refused to acknowl­edge the change means res­cuers have given up hope of 
prosecution contends Shabazz was obsessed with killing Far­rakhan, whom her mother had 
P u b 1i c 1Y 
Farrakhan
accused of involvement in Malcolm X's murder. 
Farrakhan denied being in­volved in plotting his death but has conceded that he fueled anti-Malcolm X sentiment. 
"I have a lot at stake. I lost my father and I'm risking los­ing my mother." the 34-year­old Shabazz told the supposed hit man, a high school acquain­tance who was working as a government informant, court documents show. 

finding anyone alive 12 days affer the blast. 
However, Gov. Frank Keating, who has been preparing Oklahomans for the possibility for several days. said late Sun­day night that rescuers had "crossed the river" and had accepted that everyone inside is dead. 
Concern now is for the safety of the crews that have been sifting by hand through the pulverized rubble of the build­ing despite the threat parts of the structure could collapse on them. 
"You reach a point where you don't jeopardize human beings in order to extract the dead," Keating said. 
The defense argues that the government informant, Michael Fitzpatrick, lured Shabazz into the plot by romancing her and preying upon her fears for her family. 
The trial was to begin with jury selection today in U.S. Dis­trict Court. If convicted. Shabazz faces up to 90 years in prison and a $2.25 million fine. She has been free on $10,000 bail. 
Farrakhan, who was never attacked, has said he believes Shabazz was set up by the gov­ernment. 
Judge James M. Rosenbaum has admonished attorneys not to talk about the case. 
Before his warning, which stopped short of a formal gag order. the attorneys had laid out their general strategies. 

May 3d Class of P6 Cookout 


4:30 -7 at Stonehenge 
COME JOIN THE JUNIOR CLASS FOR FREE BURGERS, CHIPS, AND SODA WITH YOUR STUDENT I.D. 

TWEAK AND THE ROAD APPLES WILL BE PLAYING. THIS WILL BE THE ROAD APPLES FINAL PERFORMANCE AT NOTRE DAME! 
He said machines would be­gin work within a day or two. Some victims' remains probably will never be recovered, Keating said. 
Rescue workers support the decision to switch to heavy equipment, said Oklahoma City police Sgt. Lynn McCumber. 
"This thing's gone on for 12 days now, and we've dug through that by hand," Mc­Cumber said. "We need to bring an end to this." 
Since Thursday, no rescue workers have been in the sec­tion of the building believed to contain the collapsed remains of a crowded Social Security of­fice, Marrs said. 


Don't forget to send your usable items to St. Vincent de Paul . books. dishes. pots. pans. clothing. furniture. appliances. beds. bedding. etc. Your discards 'Help Us Help Others' For pick-up on campus call 234-6000 or use our donation box located behind the Book Store. 
UPS 
Mail Boxes Etc. 
Authorized Shipping Outlet Stepan Basketball Courts 
Monday, May 8 • Saturday, May 13  10 a.m. • 5 p.m.  
Thursday, May 18 ·Saturday, May 20  10 a.m.  • 5 p.m.  
Monday, May 22  10 a.m. -5p.m.  

Lvons Basketball Courts 
INednesday, May 10 ·Saturday, May 13 10. a.m.· 5p.m Thursday, May 18-Saturday, May 20 10 a.m.-5 p.m. 
• 
Foam Peanuts, Tape, Bubble Wrap, etc. • $100 Free Declared Value/Box 

• 
Mail Boxes Etc. may cost less than using a moving truck! FURNITURE? WE'LL SHIP IT! ASK US. 


.-\fur Finais ·­
~ 


~7~·~"·--:::5D.Ii:.c:=fm=~:..::\w.:.=&:.'::u 
r'I!XIIac::"~m:o~IO:T.r::sriv.r..am::~~ "Lb~:.-:. :wC:s 1'0: :.~ l.-:::1 ~ '.ref~ :.u: 1.-.: ~us: <.:nJ: Jr.-'1'1:'-j 
.WAJL.:zr:llti'C' ~~--=-~~~~~!.~rl-r·_ 





:f!~oo~,.~,!~~~,~~,l?~:, 
StopbyourstoreorCall 277-MAIL (6245) forourfreepickupservice. (Pick up is FREE, however no discounts accepted on pick-ups. Call ear1y to reserve pick-up lime.) 
"Our Lady on 
the Dome" 
As the river called "St. joseph" 
ws softly towards its end it turns eastward at a city aptly named "South Bend" 'Twas here Fr. Sarin founded a 
university 
or the glory of God's reign lie named it for "Our Mother" 
Notre Dame-Notre Dame 
...So begins a beautiful eight stanza poem that belongs in every fan's home and office. Suitable for framing, the tribute is bordered in blue and gold. 
The spirit of the University sin­
cerely expressed-makes a cher­
ished gift. 
Send personal check or money 
order to: 
Pat O'Block, P.O. Box 306, 
LaGrange, IL 60525 
Allow 1 0 days to 2 weeks for delivery.
r.----------------------,
.Name 1
I -----------------1 •Address 1
I ----------------1
•c s z· •
: 1ty -------tate __ 1p ---: :Number of poems@ 12.95* each ___ : : Total :
I -----1 
: $2.50TotaiS&H _____: 
I I 
: GrandTotal -----: L*$1.00 from each sale will be donated to : 
I I 
L_!~-~oE:~~~~~~~~!~P!~~--J 
Permanent Location 
Comer of S.R. 23 &Ironwood Martin's Ironwood Plaza North 


$1.00 
Off/box 
(Excludes Pick Ups) 




VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, May 2, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucas Managing Editor Business Manager Suzanne hy joseph Riley 

News F.ditor ................................ David Tyler Advenising Manager ...........................john Potter Viewpoint F.ditor .................. Michad 0'1-lara Ad Design Manager ....................... Ryan Malayter Spons Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Ac(;cnt Editor ......................... Krista Nanncry Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan l'hoto F.ditor .................................. Rob Finch Observer Marketing Dircctor .......... Pete Coleman Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independem newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saim Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of cilhcr institution. The news is reported as accurately and objecdvdy as possible, Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns prcsenr the vi~s of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muntty and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
• EDITORIAL 

Don't blame it on the rain 
Blaming the weather seems to be the easy thing to do after 
an AnTostal week that bordered on disaster. While Friday 
afternoon's sun drew hundreds out onto Fieldhouse Mall for 
laser tag. bungee runs and the St. Ed's Carnival, many of the 
events scheduled for earlier in the week met a much less for­
tunate fate. 
Why the apathetic reaction? Well, the weather certainly 
played a role in wreaking havoc on the schedule of events, 
which made much of the festival's advertising inaccurate and 
confusing. But in reality, the rain Is just a convenient excuse 
for a lack of student organization and administration flexibili­
ty. 
AnTostnl's woes are evident on the other side of U.S. 31 too. 
Rather than holding an AnTostal ''Saint Mary's Day," as in 
years past, the SMC Student Activities Board staged a virtual 
secession. SMCTostal emerged as a reaction to Notre Dame's 
dismissal of Saint Mary's relevance to the festival. With the 
continual preaching for improved Notre Dame~Saint Mary 
relations. the festival Ulustrates how the campuses are not 
growing any closer. 
There is no reason for AnTostal '96 to repeat this year's fail­ure. Is a week-long festival held during the busiest days of the ·s·emester going to promote participation? Probably not.. 
Looking back on last week, it seems that the $20,000 budget ··· 
wa..o:; spent on a long list of small scale events, like the air toys 
at Fieldhouse Mall. It's little wonder that PigTostal was more 
popular. 
A better strategy would be to condense the festival into one 
or two days while spending money on several big events: the 
festival could be packed into a single weekend which would 
also Include the Blue-Gold football game and Bookstore 
Basketball. 
By focusing on our Irish tradition rather than a weak theme 
like "Quest for the Crown," AnTostal can gain the momentum 
and notoriety necessary to become more than just a Gaelic 
name. The University could even promote the festival by can­
celing classes on Friday. Don't laugh: At other schools like 
Indiana, Michigan and Purdue, spring festivals are the high­
light of the semester. Staging such a festival is not impossible. 
AfttJr all. Notre Dame is the home of NBC football weekends 
and JPW extravaganzas. 
While it is an easy cop-out to propose another survey or 
committee. in this case, it is exactly the thing to do. Both 
Notrt) Dame and Saint Mary's students need to voice their 
input on what they expect from the festival, and then make an 
efl'ort to partldpate in the end result. Ultimately, organizers 
must be held accountable-rain or no rain. 
After all. it is your money. 


page 7 


Support selling students short 
• DDONESBURY 
~WHAT5 tu~L./..., THAT~ 
?He!leAL-, AN&I..LJ5/vtWC.'!HAV£3 ll:RM, 8./J. ...
I GOTGUI.F 
\
WAR91N­{}f(OM/£ -r 
GWS ~S 7lJ f3C. A ai.ETER. rFOVliRJ..APPIN6 /JI~fR.OM A VAR/ffl OFOUJ54/..A6ENT5. ~ N&&/J MUC/-1 MORECOMPr<&HtN­
5/V£3 5TU/J/&5 7lJ501<T ITOlff. 

Dear Editor: 
Notre Dame has again come to the end of an academic year, which means, in an apparent self-congratulations for continuing to let students attend its halls, that they have yet again increased tuition. This year, thanks to a slight rise in inflation, however, tuition is only increas­ing at a two-fold rate over consumer prices. 
While this Jetter may seem, to the administra­tion. like the moaning of an otherwise financially well-off-child-of-the-CEO, I would like to start off with a story as to what the tuition means. For myself, it means that I will be leaving this school one semester early, and with a dwindling num­ber of regrets for doing so. My mother simply cannot afford to send me here, and this will be the only way I can save her the money she doesn't have. Perhaps this is the sacrifice we are to make for the Catholic Church. 
What has happened is that, even for the middle class, the University is on the edge of pricing us out. Forget the traditional blue-collar Catholics: the best they will ever be able to do is root for our football team. The middle class-the upper middle class-is beginning to be sacked as well. Our education, and college experience. has been impeded upon by the shadow of debt. 
What we are going through makes no sense, in relation to university finances. For starters, the university points to the fact that it intends to spend more (four percent, as opposed to a six percent increase) on financial aid next semester. But how much will be for student loans? When we subtract the increase in student loans, and add the amount of money received from interest on these accounts, we will see a more accurate picture as to how much the university is truly losing in student aid. 
I would also like to state that I am aware (thanks to Mark Yusko of the Investment Department) of a stock purchase that the univer­sity made early last year, in which they bought into a company, at $1.50 a share, approximately three million dollars worth of shares. As of February. the price of stock in this company had risen to sixty five dollars a share, meaning that the university was sitting on, as of February 1995, $130 million in a single stock purchase, a net profit of $127 million. Not only is this enough money to pay for financial aid for all of academic year 1994-95 (approximately $114 million). hut the extra $13 million in profits brings in $1 mil­lion dollars more than the tuition increase. If the university failed to at least hold its own in its remaining holdings in a year when the stock exchange broke 4000, I strongly advise turning their portfolio over to a better brokerage firm. 
Now we can talk about the one billion dollars in endowments. The one billion dollars sitting in there. to my knowledge (and I was informed by a person in the finance department). is earmarked for the endowment of chairs, construction of new buildings. expansion of scholarships and finan­cial aid; essentially, to develop "a learning envi­ronment of cutting edge technology." If this fund, then, is used to cover our "long-term university plans," then why do they need more cash from us? What good does it do if they are really giving it back in financial aid? Why not increase the withdrawal total from the endowment fund? We'll fall in U.S. News; big deal. If they don't want to rank us based on our education alone, then that is their problem. 
Finally, I think that what the university is putting us through is a perfect reason as to why Federal Financial Aid should be cut, if not abol­ished. The fewer students that can afford to go here, the fewer the number of people the University will be able to select from. Eventually. the University will have to select 1800 students from a pool of 1500, meaning there will be a unique blend of utter morons and people trying to get an education. 
Of course, in this situation, it would only be a matter of time until the university (and others like it) fold, based on their "Jet's suck more money" policy. The intelligent children, mean­while, will be attending local and state schools, pushing the quality of education back up in environments where others will benefit as well. 
So where is this money going? That's what I would like to know. Unfortunately, we can only find out if we donate an additional three thou­sand dollars to the University, at which point we would have the option of seeing what exactly they are spending it on. Given the state of the administration, the makeshift slabs of construc­tion material that they call dorms, the deteriorat­ing library, and the dire lack of computer space on campus (but this will all be cured with only a six percent rise in tuition!), I really am curious. 
Maybe it goes into leavened bread for mass. After all, everyone can see the dough rising. ROGER ZALNERAITIS 
Sophomore 
Morrissey Hall 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
ON& 8/GrAarJRMAYEJe ~ 
tf/HICH tuOUW!5XPLAIN lf/HY 
~V/5!5t//(£ YCr.J!<SEJF, 
a/HOtf£R& YANK£1JOUT OFC/V!t!AN tl~ HA~ AHI6H~ RA713 7HAN %TlveWTYII!R!f(}NNE31.-. 
~ 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"people love the unvar­
nished truth if it's about others, and hate it when it's about themselves." 
-Warren Rogers 
~-----­

r-----­
VIEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, May 2, 1995 

• liFE AFTER fiNALS 
Education begins where ND ends 
I thought my education ended on May 16, 1993, We all thought he was a big improvement over the when I earned my bachelor's degree from the loser she had been seeing before. University of Notre Dame. Everyone thought that the problem was solved, and 
That was before I found out my friend and colleague she was going to be OK. That was until a couple of "Amanda" was fired because she was smoking crack. months ago, when my boss' 9-year-old daughter point­Again. ed out that, all of a sudden, she didn't have as many 
(I don't know why I am disguising her name. Neither key chains as she used to. (An office filled with journal­she nor any of her friends have any connections with ists, and a little girl is the first one to notice this. I still Notre Dame, and I am the only ==========;:::;:::;;;::::;:::;;;:;; can't figure that out.) 
person in my office who even After being confronted about knows that there is such a news-this, Amanda admitted that she paper called The Observer. Maybe had fallen off the wagon and was
PaUI 

it's just easier for me to deal with smoking crack again. this if I don't have to see her Soon after that, she started to name on my computer screen. But miss days of work, coming up with

Pearson 

I digress.) excuses about her car or her alarm 
Amanda first came to work at clock. my newspaper shortly after I did. Then one day, Amanda went Since we were both fairly new, we home for lunch and never returned sort of learned the ins and outs of our jobs together. I to work. My boss called her at home and found out she found out that she liked country music, cats and the was too high to come to work. That's when the deci­color purple. I learned to put up with her Florida sion was made to fire her. Cracker drawl, and she tried to decipher my Boston I recently found out that Amanda has resumed her accent. Narcotics Anonymous program and, despite my worst 
A few months after she starting working there, my fears, she still has a roof over her head. She never got boss discovered that Amanda had tried to steal a com-around to giving me her new phone number, and I pany check. The reason: she had blown all her rent haven't been able to reach her since she was fired. I money for that money on crack. His first impulse was hope she's OK. to fire her, but Amanda promised that she would get This is just a little reminder to you that your educa­help for her addiction. Being a man of mercy, my boss tion will not be confined to lecture halls, laboratories decided to give her a second chance. or libraries. 
Amanda was true to her word. She joined Narcotics It won't be confined to your time at Notre Dame, ei-Anonymous, a 12-step program for recovering drug ther. addicts. She learned how to deal with stress in a non-chemical way. As an incentive, for every time period she stayed off drugs, she received a key chain that Paul Pearson '93 Is aformer Observer news writer stated how long she had been "clean and serene." She who currently works for a trilingual newspaper in even found a new boyfriend who was recovering from Tampa Florida. He can be reached through e-mail at an addiction himself . paulp741 15@aol.com." 





All I really need to know I learned this year 
As I've prepared myself for my big 3)Indigo Girls and debut as an Observer Viewpoint writer, Michelle Malone. For I've done the usual studying of example those of you who hate articles. Without him knowing it, I've these women, don't gotten to know Josh Ozersky very well. read this. But hey, I So, though my first article is coming out couldn't write a Top 10 in one of the last issues of the Observer, list without mentioning you'll be hearing from me more often music. Michelle Malone next year. This is sort of a preview for fronts a band called y'all...so, the big question has been, Band de Solei!. They what should I write about? Since we all are probably better re­membered as the group who threw out condoms at their show on Notre Dame's campus. The Indigo Girls, well, you just gotta love the girls.
Carol Jones 

Both Atlanta-based groups ... they provide us with the passion and the poetry. Enough said. 
4)Nick's Patio ... okay, seem to be in reflective moods lately, I so I still have other thought I'd give a top ten list of the favorites, Steak-n­things I've learned this year. You may Shake, Denny's, but or may not benefit from this informa­made my first jaunt to tion. Take it for what it's worth. So, in Nick's a couple weeks no particular order: back. Great food, great 
l)Truman's~Okay, so it's a gay bar. service, and you are al­But hey, don't knock it until you've tried ways bound to run into it. Making my first appearance at Tru­someone you know. 
can't help but smile when after meeting 10)GLND/SMC-Okay, so you're think­man's just a few short weeks ago, I felt 5)Road Trips. Travel, it's good for the someone briefly, you see them again and ing, not this again. Sorry, but I've this place was really the place to be. mind. For those of you who made the they remember your name. Or you say, learned a lot from watching the beatingYou're thinking, "But what if someone, trips to the FSU and B.C. games, you "Hey, give me a call sometime," and this group has taken this year. I can of the same sex no less, tries to pick me know what I mean. There's a certain they actually call. Then you begin talk­honestly say that watching this has up?" Look, it's no different than a freedom in busting out on that highway, ing on a regular basis and you hang out taught me what not to do. I may take straight bar. You come with your windows down, music blaring. So, take together and wham! it hits you ... I have a some heat for saying this, but the way in friends, you dance with your friends, a trip. I promise you won't miss school new friend. Truly one of my better which Notre Dame has handled this hasand you leave with your friends. Cling too much. 
lessons this year. been disheartening and unimpressive.
to the people you go with if need be. 6)Art. I never really learned to appre­9)Consistency... ah yes, one of my There is no love lost between myself and But, trust me, the music is much better, ciate art until meeting two very talented favorite words. These are all those little the administration, because the love andthe atmosphere oh so nice, and you'll artists this year. It's amazing to me how things you do that define you, that make loving community I thought existed herefind that the people who do try and pick it really becomes an outgrowth of the you known to others. They are the obviously doesn't. 
you up are better than most of the win­person. It serves as a great means for things that make you know that when That's it folks. Adieu until August. 
ners you'll encounter at the 'Backer. self-expression and I'm learning that in you see your friend who is an engineer­Only 10 more days. I leave you with a 2)NDE ... short for Notre Dame some way, we are all artists! 
ing major, that she'll always have her parting thought from the Indigo Girls:Encounter. Saw it. Did it. Loved it. No, 7)Drama and Tension ... two new distance-" ... the best thing you've ever done forwe're not talking about sex here. The words in my vocabulary as of late. It meter with her. It is the drive that me is to help me take my life less seri­NDE is a weekend-long retreat that is seems during the crunch of these final causes you to never waiver, the thought ously, it's only life after all!" 
truly a spiritual experience. For those days, everyone is a bit testy. But hey, never crossing your mind that might doof you that have applied and haven't you just have to remember that life it differently today. People may love gotten on, to you I say, "Keep applying!" always hands you lemons. So, go make 
these things about you or hate them. Carol Jones is a sophomore in Regina
For those of you who haven't, apply, some lemonade! What doesn't kill you But the fact that you stick to them and Hall at Saint Mary's . She can beyou'll come out of the experience a bet­will definitely make you stronger. 
are always consistent is what gains you reached through e-mail at ter person. 8)Meeting new people. Okay, so you 
respect. jones3176@saintmarys. edu. 


-~----­

Tuesday, May 2, 1995 page 9 
VIEWPOINT 
• LETIERS TO THE EDITOR 
(<o/(

Opera workshop qualityDooley spirit inspires service 
Dear Editor: family and friends to volunteer this campus. It is too bad that 
merits more recognition
I take great exception to service in a foreign country. he must go through his life Pieder Beeli's referral to Tom His spirit and example will putting people like Dooley down 

"·. ···<wtc:....:.:. ·...· Dooley as an unrepentant always remain a part of my life and not focusing on the greater sodomite and his recommenda­and indeed is a lesson for us goodness of all people. Garry Grice, the director of the tion for the removal of the stat­all. I don't care "what" Dooley along with everyone else who was 
ue at the· Grotto. I read all of On my first visit to the Grotto, was, it is inconsequential to me. on the wonderful performances of Dooley's books about his expe­I was pleasantly suprised to see Who he was is by far the riences in Laos and read his his letter to Father Hesburgh greater importance and I would playing were all splendid. mother's moving tribute and his statue and thought invite Pieder Beeli to go to his mount, for any company, let "Promises to Keep" when I was there is ~o better place than local library and find out who limited resources; yet the in junior high. this to remind people of Tom Dooley was and is in the with tremendous enthusi-Among other things, these Dooley's work. hearts of all who are moved by 
books shaped my sense of com­I feel sorry for Pieder Beeli his life. a memorable one for me and I passion and duty to our fellow who I would venture to guess . Notre Dante has a real jewel in its man as well as my Christian really is not aware of who Tom ·that it will begin to receive the faith. It is in part due to these Dooley really was. It is small JULIE WILBERDING books and his life example that minds like his that promote the Graduate student in Biochemistry HENRY WEINFIELD I devoted two years away from discord currently happening on Fischer Graduate Residences Msistant Professor 
Program ofliberal Srudies 

-





Bookstore Basketball: Cheers and jeers 
Congratulating 'Guns' 
Dear Editor: 
We compliment the staiT of The Observer on their in-depth coverage from the commencement of the Men's (Co-Ed) B.ookstore Basketball Tournament through the champi­onship game on Sunday. As former undergraduate students and current law students, we know how important this event is to the student body. 
As female students, we are also aware that there was a Women's division of the tournament. Apparently nobody on the staiT of The Observer was aware that 40 female teams competed. These teams advanced to the championship round and a talented women's team, "Big Guns", was victo­rious on Sunday afternoon. It is too bad The Observer neglected to even mention this facet of the tournament, and more egregiously failed to compliment these women on their achievement. 
In addition to chastising The Observer for its lack of judg­
ment in excluding coverage of the Women's Tournament, 
allow us, as representatives of the student body, to congrat­
ulate "Big Guns" on their impressive win. 
MARIE PREIN 
CATHERINE RYAN 
JOY SMITH 
Second-year law students 


Women lack coverage 
Dear Editor: 
·Notably absent from The Observer's extensive coverage of 
Bookstore Basketball was the Women's Tournament. 
Hemarkably, not a single article or picture appeared, 
despite the participation of 40 women's teams. 
The championship game was played on Sunday, April 30, 
before a cheering crowd who, along with the players, 
braved rain and cold. Big Guns triumphed over Flynn's 
Britches 21-12. The game featured an exciting match-up of 
former NO varsity teammates Coquese Washington (NO '93) 
and current senior Letitia Bowen. 
We also await the Bookstore Commissioner's scheduling of 
the Women's Tournament awards ceremony and the nam­
ing of Ms. Bookstore 1995. 
BRIAN DOLASINSKI 
STEVE MULLERY 
STU HEALY 
MARK MOLLOY 
MARCUS CONNOR 

....M"''";~i Tourney lacks honor and truth 
Dear Editor: stood on the sidelines coaching other team gets the ball. 
I ask you, "What's wrong with the team, Sweeter than Candy. I But I prefer not to believe that 
this picture?" In a community ask you, how can a referee be this referee was forgetful, biased 
which cherishes the ideals of impartial when he is coaching seems more pertinent. This refer­.... 
honor, trustworthiness, and one of the teams? ee used basketball rules to the 
veracity, it is sad that these ideals However more incidents advantage of his favored team. lie 
do not hold for Bookstore angered me. Before the tourna-inconsistently called fouls, only 
Basketball. I attended one of the ment began, all of the teams and seeing the ones committed by the 
recent bookstore basketball referees met to discuss the bas-opposing team. In fact, he could 
games, (Friday, April 28, 4:00pm) ketball rules and regulations not have been forgetful if he was 
and I was highly dissatisfied with associated with the tournament. able to call a charging foul from 
the officiating of this particular Apparently this referee forgot the opposite end of the court 
game; namely, the cheating which these rules. Let me explain. When against the opposing team. 
occurred. a player gets slapped in the face Granted that animosity will 
As I stood near the sidelines seven times, its called a foul, not exist, Notre Dame prides itself on 
and the baseline, I could hear a a jump ball. When a player takes its honor. In the upcoming games 
referee giving instructions to the several steps without dribbling of the Bookstore Basketball tour­
team, Sweeter than Candy. He the ball, its called traveling. nament, please extend this honor­
informed them of the opposing When an offensive player stands able courtesy to all of the teams. 
teams plays. He warned them of in the lane (defined by the free 
the positions and movements of throw lines) for longer than three REGGAE SINGLETON 
opposing team members as the seconds it is called a three second Freshman 
plays arose. This referee basically violation. This means that the Lewis Hall 

-
-------~--~--­




ACC€NT 
page 10 Tuesday, May 2, 1995 
Experience for the "Real World" 
SMC student puts know-how to the test 
ByJENNIFER LEWIS Saint Mary's Assistant Editor 


-
M
aureen Mullaney hasn't even graduated from Saint Mary's yet, but already she is putting her education to the test out there in the real world. This senior Social Work major is interning at the Child Abuse and Neglect Coordination Organization (CANCO) for her second consecutive semester. At CANCO, she applies her Social Work degree by co-facilitating children's groups, as well as working with teen parents and parents of adoles­cent children. CANCO's mission statement is to pre­
-
vent and eliminate child abuse and neglect through advocacy, education, intervention and treatment. In order for illterns like Maureen to receive funding, they must fit this statement. Mullaney devotes her Tuesday's and Thursday's to CANCO, where she works 20 hours a week. She begins her day co-counseling five mothers who have either experienced an abusive relation­ship, are on the verge of having an abu­sive relationship or are mothers of chil­dren that were in an abusive relation­ship. "At first I didn't think I could relate to the mothers in my group," said Mullaney. "I didn't feel like I had a right 
SETTING OUT TO SERVE 
By ANDREA JORDAN Assistant Accent Editor 
I
s this you? Approaching graduation and unsure if the road you took in college is the road you want to take throughout life? Well, even if this is not you right now, it could be you or a friend later in life. 
Currently many seniors are about to put off graduate school or the workplace for a year or two to go to various parts of the country and even other countries. These seniors will not be vacationing, as one may have thought, but they will be putting in many hours of service work. What moti­vates a senior to do this is mul­tifold. 
Jennifer Whiteside, a current senior at Notre Dame who will be participating in a year-long Holy Cross Associates-USA ser­vice program following gradu­ation, explained, "This will help decide if social work is my career." 
Other seniors may have dif­ferent reasons. Many of the seniors, for instance, have pre­viously been involved in ser­vice programs coordinated by the university, such as Urban Plunge and Summer Service projects, and from these have been inspired on to serve longer. 

Senior Missy P_l!mphrey remarked, "Notre Dame stu­dents are more aware of ser­vice as a full-time opportuni­ty." 
Most senior service pro­grams began about 15 to 20 years ago, and since then there have been many progressive changes. Mary Ann Roemer, Center for Social Concerns coordinator for senior service programs, commented that over the past years, hundreds of programs have been initiat­ed. 
Among the programs offered are Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE), Holy Cross Associates USA, Holy Cross Associates Chile, Jesuit Volunteer Corps, Peace Corps, Vicentian Service Corps, to name just a few. 
Roemer added that for seniors, service has become a much more reflective, integrat­ed process. Initially, seniors volunteered for service, but most did not think of it as selecting their path in life. 
Now, about 200 seniors or about 10% of the senior class join these programs, much higher numbers than 15 or 20 years ago. This percentage of seniors who choose post-grad­uate service is among the high­est in the nation. 
When asked if acceptance into these programs is compet­itive, Roemer noted th'at accep­tance into the more well­known programs can be extremely competitive, but that service through the smaller programs can be equally if not more rewarding. 
In celebration of those seniors who have chosen ser­vice, a Senior Send-Off cere­mony will be held Saturday, May 20. The ceremony will be held in Washington Hall at 
10:00 a.m. with a reception to follow at the esc. 
The send-off is an opportuni­ty to recognize seniors who will be involved in service pro­grams, both those coordinated through the esc and indepen­dently organized programs as well, and to inform other stu­dents about service opportuni­ties. 
The send-off is also an opportunity for the families of these seniors to share in this recognition. Guest speakers will be Father "Monk" Malloy, Mary Ann Roemer, and alumni who have participated in ser­vice programs in the past. 
A task force of about 20 stu­dents, headed by senior Katie Glynn and organized by Mary Ann Roemer coordinated this ceremony. 
'students at Notre 
Dame are very fortunate to have the Center for Social Concerns to open up many opportunities for them to be involved in service.' 
Missy Pumphrey 
Missy Pumphrey, head of the publicity side of the task force said, "Students at Notre Dame are very fortunate to have the Center for Social Concerns to open up many opportunities for them to be involved in service." 
Pumphrey believes that the very fact that the esc exists is indicative of Notre Dame's unique commitment to service. This commitment, which extends far beyond the esc. can also be felt in other areas, such as dorm involvement with service projects, and undoubtedly contributes to the high numbers of Notre Dame seniors who choose service. 
While service is often under­appreciated at other universi­ties, this is not the case at Notre Dame. The Senior Send­Off is another example of Notre Dame's efforts to recog­nize the importance of service and to encourage others to continue this Notre Dame tra­dition. 
Whether the reason for do­ing service is a desire to help people, or an option for some­one who is unsure about life's path, post-graduation service projects can be the most worthwhile option for some graduates. 
This is a follow-up piece to a previous feature that appeared in Accent. 


to teach a parenting course without being a parent. With time, it was ful­filling to know that the women could confide in me and learn from my train­ing. I still believe that when I am a par­ent I will have a lot more inside, but for now, I have enough confidence in myself to help co-facilitate a group." 
Mullaney works with people who are living on a month to month basis. They are people struggling with pay checks and people that have unhappy home lives. 
Confidentiality is key. Each group must make a confidential pact with one another. Because of the nature of the agency, Mullaney can not approach any individual in her group outside of the office, unless they approach her first. 
"I can sympathize with the people in my group, but I will never fully under­stand the pain they are going through," 
'J didn't feel like I had a 
right to teach a parenting course without being a parent. With time, it was fulfilling to know that the women could confide in me and learn from 

Saint Mary's student Maureen Mullaney applies her social work degree interning with the 
my training.' 

Child Abuse and Neglect Coordination Organization. 
Maureen Mullaney When Mullaney started working with Mullaney will only receive four credit the group there were only 7 girls. This hours for her work with CANCO, but she number increased to fourteen. will take this year of experience with said Mullaney. "It gets hard at times, but According to Mullaney, the children her to her next vocation. "If I had the it's eye opening. I thank God for giving come to the group as an after school choice, I would do it all over again," said me the chance to go to college." activity. It is a place for them to hang Mullaney. "It helped me know for sure The rest of Mullaney's day is occupied out and bring their friends. what I wanted to do with my life. Before 
by staff meetings and working with Mullaney's most recent project lasted CANCO, I didn't think I could handle the CANCO's satellite office, The Boys and three months. She worked with a six­emotional stress that comes along with Girls Club, where she co-counsels a year-old girl, using play therapy. "I the field. Now I know I am prepared."
"girls group." The main purpose of the grew in a relationship with her," said group is to counsel pre-teen girls on Mullaney. "It was hard to say good-bye. CANCO offers internship opportunities teen sexuality. They discuss date rape, I will never be able to call her or talk to for students who want to put their sex, the Just Say No policy and the her again, unless she makes the first knowledge to the test. Helping Hands is 
changes that take place in a young girl's move. She will be able to write me a weekly feature that focuses on service body. through the agency, but it's unlikely." oriented activities. 
-
-----~-~-----~------­
Tuesday, May 2, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
Brian Geraghty, which took a Richardson walked in a run to by Brock which allowed DeSensi, and looked primed for wicked hop and hit third base­cut the lead to one, but got Bret Morrison to score. a rally in the ninth. Scott
Baseball 
man Amrhein in the face. Poppleton to fly out to center­Sollmann doubled and scored field to end the threat and the The see-saw battle continued, on a DeSensi single, but withcontinued from page 16 
He was removed from the game. as Restovich hit a two-run the Irish trailing by one 
Northern Illinois scored three game and X-rays showed the In game two the Irish scored homer in the fourth. The hosts Topham popped out to the unearned runs in the seventh sophomore had fractured his first on an RBI double by responded, driving starter catcher and Restovich flew out otT starter Tim Kraus. nose. Topham, But the Huskies came Gregg Henebry from the game to center to end the game. 
Notre Dame attempted to back in the third, getting two with a three-run fifth. Notre Dame will travel to The real damage occurred in rally from a 4-2 deficit in the runs on an RBI triple by Brock The Irish closed the gap to Grand Rapids today to face that inning on a grounder by top of the ninth. Starter Jesse Morrison and a throwing error two on an RBI single by Michigan. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
I· 
Employment opportunity with an --VW---JETIA GLI Help· We need graduation tlx. Will KEENAN FOUR MAN SCRAMBLE Architectural and Engineering firm 16V---VW--do ANYTHING for them-you name Thurs. May 4 @ 9:00am. 4 person 
NOTICES located In historic Lafayelle, Indiana FOR RENT •1990 -spotless, no rust -white ill Call John or Scoll at 277-5720 teams, $8.50 I golfer. *PRIZES*: for ARCHITECTURAL GRADUATE •sunroof •manual •new sport tires and leave a message. 1st, 2nd, 3rd; long drive, closest to J U N 0 R S with AutoCAD proficiency and 3 LIVE IN A GOOD AREA FUR· •looks and runs like new •$9500 pin. Call Todd x3402. months office experience. Resume NISHED HOMES NORTH OF NO call now: 284-5261 U SUBMIT PRINTED COPY to H.L. Mohler & Associates, P.C., IDEAL FOR 3-7 PEOPLE 2773097 PERSONAL Aimee: Suddenly here's to flashes OF RESUME AND DISK 839 Main Street, Lafayelle, IN LOFT4SALEII of you, Listening to the Dead & 
N TO CAREER & PLACE­47901 2 BDRM house $520/mc. + uti!. In excellent condition 000 The Copy Shop 000 drinking Mad Dog, Being Not Doing MENT SERVICES FOR 624 Park (Historic District) Call x3831 LaFortune Student Center In your second trimester, RESUME BOOKS NOW! AA CRUISE SHIPS HIRING! EARN Grad. Students pre!. 232-6079 WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE, Acceptable showering & posing In 
BIG$$$+ FREE WORLD TRAVEL 90 white Geo Prlzm. AC, automatic, & WEEKENDS FOR YOUR Red Satin & to Doing It all again DEADLINE: BEFORE YOU (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII, FURNISHED ROOM, AIR, 66,000 miles. Great Condition. CONVENIENCE!! I someday· HAPPY 22nd B-DAYII LEAVE CAMPUS IN MAY. ETC.) SUMMER/PERMANENT, NO KITCHEN, PHONE, 3 MIN. N. OF Must see. $5,000 OBO. Must sell Phone 631-COPY Love, US 
R EXPER. NEG. GUIDE. (919)929-CAMPUS. 272-0615. In a few days. Call273-6051 4398 ext. C1082 ADOPTION ·A LOVING CHOICE T-Bone Is hot and sexy!! I Get In line s Rm available In 3 bedrm home for Pediatrician and pediatric nurse before the semester ends. Tickets 
COUNSELORS WANTED for summer/fall '95. $240 Incl. utilities. Moving off campus? Need some happily married for seven years are are going fast to ride the T-Bone @@@@@@@@@@@@@@@ Kwlwanis Twin Lakes Camp located 5-min drive. 232·7175 or 631-4809. furniture? We have it. hoping to share our love with a expressill @ in Plymounth, Ind. This Is a sum­FOR SALE: child. We love the outdoors, have FREE PIZZA!! FREE MAS­mer camp for physically and men­Female nonsmk grad student want­Coach· $25 comfortable home and country lake­Lisa & Andrea missed the boatll SAGES!! tally handicapped children and ed to share spacious apt In historic Dresser-$25 side cottage. Will provide secure, Fellow Seniors-We need a booze TONS OF OTHER FREE FOOD! II II young adults. Most campers are downtown. Lrg windows, hardwood Single size bed (new) • $45 loving home with full time mom. cruise ticket and fastl X2514-Will Balloon stomping, darts, punching age 7 thru 21. but we have lilted the firs & fireplace. $200/mo. heat Inc! I Desk· $45 Counseling and allowable expens­pay a handsome ransomll bags, pillow fighting, finger painting, age limit. The campers are from Call Ailsa @ 4-3730 Chair& Olloman • Negot. es. Call Kim or Mike at 1·800-469­basketball, and lots of other random the Chicago metro area and from all Call271-0226. 0559 Plain Hamburgers Rule! II stuff...Come to SUB's final exam over the state of Indiana. We want Furnished, 2-bdrm home. 1013 stress reliever on Sun., May 7th you to have an interest in working Cedar St. $450/mo. + utilities. For Sale ()()() THE COPY SHOP 000 SENIORS: from 9pm-12am In the LaFun with disabled children. The camp Lease & deposit. 273-0860. Cobra 3 Band LaFortune Student Center I am looking tor Female, graduating Ballroom. sessions run from June 11 to Radar Detector $50 vQuick turn around tlmelll seniors who will be working In New 
August 16 with orientation the week 1722 E Edison. 5 Bedrooms. Must 277·9747 vMost orders completed York City next year. If you need a FREE FOOD, REAL MASSEUSE!! prior . We provide room and board be family. June 15 Occupancy. within 24 hours roommate call Merrie X1413 
plus $1,000.00. If interested please Karen 291-9011. FUTON vFree pick-up & delivery @@@@@@@@@@@@@@@ call the camp's winter office 312-CHEAP GOOD SHAPE to & from departments Say, how 'bout those Cubs? @ 767-CAMP Bed & Breakfast. Can accomadate X1228 vCaii631-COPY 
4·6. 10 min from University. Karen Prayer to the Blessed Vlrgln(never ATIENTION SENIORS who are Attention summer school students! 291-9011. FOR SALE: '84 VW JETIA GLI T-Bone Was Herell So look out known to faii)Oh, most beautiful planning to VOLUNTEER next Looking for a responsible, fun-lov­RED; good condition -$2000 obo because she will steal your quarters flower of MI. Carmel, fruitful vine, year-Come sign up at the esc to ing student to babysit my 2 children, DREAM HOUSE FOR SUMMER Call Jennie @ 272-0108 to do her laundry! splendor of Heaven, Blessed be recognized at the VOLUNTEER ages 5&7, 2·3 afternoons per week To sublet: spacious, fully-furnished Mother of the Son of God. SEND-OFF Friday, May 19th 2·6pm in my Granger home. Please 2 bdrm near campus. 282-2246 2-YR OLD PANASONIC PRINTER I ned a ride to EASTERN MASS Immaculate Virgin, assist me In my 
call 277-5786. FOR SALE • PERFECT COND. alter graduation. Will split necessity. 0 Star of the Sea, help $$ FOR TEXTBOOKS$$ COTIAGE NEAR NOTRE DAME CALL VAL 4·2597 gas/lolls/etc. Please call soon. me herein you are my mother. Oh, Are you going to read those things SUMMER SALES OPPORTUNITY. FOR GRADUATION WEEKEND. Tom x1712 Holy Mary, Mother of God, Queen again? I think not. 2323-2342 Looking tor ambitious student(s) tor PHONE & CABLE. 272·1968. 86 HONDA PRELUDE Sl Thank you. of Heaven and Earthl I humbly Pandora's Bks NO Ave & Howard summer advertising sales in South red 5spd beseech you from the bollom of my 
Bend area and Northwest Indiana. FOR RENT for summer. 2 bdrms, Must Sell 4·2475 WVFI AM 640 would like to congrat­heart to succor me In this necessity. ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAK­Must have automobile. Call furnished, min. from campus. ulate Bookstore champions Models, There are none that can withstand FAST, 35 MIN TO N.D. SPECIAL Enterprise Publishing at 1·800-37 4-$500/mo. Deposit. Serious stu­89 red Nissen Sentra. Only 44,000 Inc. and NBT2 on a hard-fought your power. Oh, show me herein "OBSERVER" RATE $50/$60, 2253. dents. 289-1159. miles, Great Condition, Must see. game. Thanks to all of the you are my mother. Oh, Mary con­FULL BREAKFAST. THE HOME­$4000 OBO. Call 273 8428 Bookstore commissioners, espe­ceived without slm, pray for us who SPUN COUNTRY INN, NAPPA­HOMES FOR RENT cially Scali. have recourse to thee( ((three NEE, 219-n3-2034. Conversational English teaching NEAR CAMPUS If you're planning on living off-cam­times) Mother, I place this cause In 
positions available In South Korea. 232·2595 pus next year, we have some furni­THE LAST REGULAR ISSUE OF your hands(3 tlmes)Holy Spirit, You WORD PROCESSING, TAXES, Call (616)473-2129 tor information. ture you might want to buy. THE OBSERVER IS TOMORROW, who solve all problems, light all GIFTS. 256-6657 English Teacher Recruiting Service. 2 bedrooms In quiet neighbour­We kept It real clean and want to MAY3. roads so I can allaln my goal. You 
hood, close to campus. Use of sell it soon. Call271·1390 If you're THE SENIOR ISSUE IS ON FRI· who gave me the divine gilt to for­TRUCK BACK TO D.C. Wanted: Cheap sublease tor the kitchen & laundry facilities. Summer Interested in big desks, shelves, a DAY, MAY 19. give and forget all evil against me TRUCK BACK TO D.C. summer. Call by May B. (219)759· and fall school year. Rent Is $250 couch with pull-out bed, lamp IF YOU WANT TO PUT CLASSI­and that In all Instances In my life Drop-off-Thursday, May 11 & 2793. per month. Call Paul at 232·2794. tables, lamps, and more. FIEDS IN FOR TOMORROW, you are with me. I want In this short Friday. May 12 12PM-4PM THE DEADLINE IS TODAY AT 3 prayer to thank You for all things as CALL Rob Flynn at X1745 Wanted: Housesitting Position. Law College Park Condo tor rent this Double bed and night stand----$125 PM. YOU CAN COME INTO THE I confirm once again that I never for questions and prices. student will take care of your home summer. Call271·7895. Desk----$50 OBSERVER OFFICE ANY DAY want to be separated from You In 
this summer. References available. Or Best Offerll UNTIL MAY 18 BETWEEN 8 & 3 eternal glory. Thank you tor your Philly baggage truck loads soon Ill 277-3512 MOVING TO CHICAGO? Call Brendan at 272·2376 TO PUT IN AN AD FOR 5/19. mercy towards me and mine. The D.etalls call Dan @ 2738699 Apt. In Lincoln Park. Share rent person must say this prayer tor 3 Call now, space limited with '94 NO alum. 5 min. to Water bed + attached dresser­Will U B In the NY area this surn­consecutive days. Alter 3 days, the 
Summertime babysitter needed: Downtown. $125 mer? NO? So whatl Then just request will be granted. This prayer Flexible hours. Must have own Washer/Dryer. Fireplace. Double bed----$150-comes with road trip out for the party of the cen· must be published after the favor Is 
ILOST & FOUND I 
transportation. Call alter 6:00 pm futon couch turyl granted. a. 
Experience necessary. (312) 4n-sB62 entertainment center----$40 QUIGTOSTAL 11....... LOST: Vlvltar AF 200 35 mm cam­Great working conditions! matching couch and chalr----$20 The Tradition Continues Buck, What time Is It?I? era at an apartment on Lance Court Call Nancy 272·7746 shelves----$15 July 8, 1995 or vicinity during the Shadowlands FOR SALE nlghtstand----$15 Call Vacca 1213 or T 4708 for Info Thanks Women's Lax tor a great cast party on Fri. April21. Name 2 cubic foot retrlg -679-4454 Or best offer on any item weekend. You women ara the and home address on back. OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered Call277-6475 greatest. Hope everyone Is feeling Sentimental value; no questions SUMMER JOBS at $85,900. First floor location. PLEASE HELPIIl beller by nowl GO IRISH!!II asked If returned. ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS Finished basement with full lavato­I NEED A RIDE TO SOUTHERN REWARD. call Sue x1522 PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ry. Two bedrooms and two baths on TICKETS NY, NORTHERN NJ (West Point, To all those who attempted to 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS ground level. Lease back to owner Poughkeepsie, Mahwah, NYC) alter unseat the champs, keep shooting. Silver and Brass Bracelet between NEAR LAKE PLACID through May, 1995. Call I need graduation tickets. Please finals WED 5/10 through 5/21­
Debart and NOH. Not worth a lot. 1-800-786·8373 (616)946-0700. call Lisa at 277-07 40 whenever you can. Storing most Okay Sherman, hop on my back, I'll just got It In Mexico, so I want It stuff -little baggage and a guaran­carry you. back! If found, call Janina -1412 very cool LOFT tor sale X2533 I have xtra grad tlxl tee of GREAT conversation, as well 
SUMMER INTERNSHIPS: VEC· Chris 2n 4316 as $. Please, PRETTY PLEASE, GEORGE & THE FREEKS FOUND BY STEPAN COURTS­TOR INTERNA TIONAL-Acceptlng Painted loll with shelves 4salel CALL BRIAN AT x1058. Wed. 5/3 @9pm at CSC. Celebrate MAN'S CLASS RING. CALL CHRIS applications for summer openings x3806 I need two extra graduation tickets THANK YOU VERY MUCH. end of year and support 2 seniors 2n-5717 & IDENTIFY. at 285 locations across the U.S. All tor my brothers. If you can help me volunteering In Honduras next year. 
majors, Freshman-Senior. Zoom 14.4 tax, data, and voice out call Jose@ 4-1661 $2 please! LOST: multi-colored ankle bracelet; Scholarships available (6 previous modem tor sale. All you have to do Don't Forget Sophomores ... last seen In front of neuwland. scholarships awarded to Notre Is tum the modem and your Mac on I need Grad Tickets The CLASS SERVICE PROJECT Today Is the last lunch bunchl 
please call x26441 Dame students.) For Information and the modem distinguishes Jack X3588 at the NE Neighborhood Is going Killer, Beth, Keenan, Tom, Chad, 
contact South Bend office at 282· between voice mall, tax, and data. strong but can always use new vol­Ricky, Lillie Z, Sam, Steve, and FOUND: Men's wristwatch with 2357 Voice Mall can have up to 99 mail· I Need GRADUATION TICKETS unteers. Its a lot of fun • give It a try. anyone else who has experienced readily identifiable wristband found boxes. Perfect for leaving on when call ED @ X4204 We leave at 2:30pm and the magic • Thank you for the good bet. Siegried and Knoll. Call Matt Need 1 graduation ticket x4200 you're expecting both a tax and tel­3:30pm from Main Circle every times, the sex jokes, and memories. 
x3315 to claim. phone calls. New: $149.95, used; Irish Grandparents need tickets for Wednesday and Friday, and return 
***********WANTED•••••••••••••••• $951n box. Call Matt at 273-6163 graduation. Please call Carolyn at at 4:30. Call Brian x1058. Having to clean our rooms really Found: Gold Pin/Broach near I need a Mountain bike In good con­for info. 271-7895. stinks. Any questions, call Alan at Stepan Hall and the Rad Lab. Call dition. J u N 0 R x1633. We've had some callers, but Peter x1-7850. Call Mike at X4100 EPSON LX-810 printer. Used for need 1 graduation ticket-call chris s no real takers tor a lifting partner. 
1sem. Make offer. Call Janine-x1216 Anyone still interested, call Todd at Lost: 1412 U SUBMIT PRINTED COPY x1672. No one has called as of yet 
One black "GAP" jacket Please help me. I am desperate HELP! Need 1 or 2 tickets to OF RESUME AND DISK to give plasma. Call the frog at at Jazzmans last Thursday. tor extra graduation tickets for my 89 red Nlssan Sentra. Only 44,000 graduation. Please Call Wayne N TO CAREER & PLACE· x1672 tor details. If found please call Grandparents! Will pay good $$1 Miles, Great Condition, Must See @634·4325$ MENT SERVICES FOR 
Tony #1874 Call Jose' at 4-3564. $4000 OBO. Call273 8428 RESUME BOOKS NOW! To the mud monster I need Graduation tickets. You scared me, but you were hav­Need person to ride with me on Pink loft and pink carpet -best Please call Curtis at 282·2197 0 DEADLINE: BEFORE YOU Ing tunl That's all that counts.
WANTED 
route to Omaha, NE. Will leave offer. Call 284-5304 LEAVE CAMPUS IN MAY. May 12@ noon. Will have room Driving to NJ or NY? R Killer • how's that list coming? Need a ride to Denver on May 18? tor some stuff. Please call Rachael Soprano SAX, Caravella Brittany, Take me! (no stuff, just me) have one new name· Mr. Call Hester: 1-8556/431 0 #4667. $800, call x4200 I'll pay you-Kristen 2339 s Bookstore. 
page 12 
Tennis 
continued from page 16 
tuses. 
With a new roster, the Belles traveled to Hilton Head for spring training where they were again able to compete with some high-quality compe­tition, including a Division I team. The Belles went 3-4 in Hilton Head against four good Midwest teams, which rallied them into their official spring season. 
The Belles' fall season opened up with a difficult loss to DePauw University, with only senior Andrea Ayres winning her match. 
Ayres, originally the team's number two singles and num­ber one doubles player, quit the team soon after due to conflict difficulties along with freshman Kate Marhoefer, the team's number three singles player. These losses caused the Belles to have to make even further lineup adjustments, which was especially difficult for the team. 
"Andrea was a big loss for the team," said senior Nancy Waibel. "She had been with our team for four years, filled the number two spot, and won a lot of her matches." 
·The Belles did not surrender, however, and earned a desired invitation to the Midwest Invitational tournament in Wisconsin due to their spring 3-2 record. 
At the invitational, the Belles lost two of their three matches to tough Division II competition, while winning one of the team's most valued wins of the season against Albion College. Because of the big win, the Belles ended up 12th out of 16 teams at the invita­tional. This standing topped the Belles' 16th out of 16 teams standing last year. 
The last major highlight of the Belles' season this year came in their enormous victory against Saint Joseph's College in late April. The win was unexpected for the team, and also to their coach, Katie Cromer. Cromer recognized the fact that they had lost to Saint Joe's in the fall, before they had suffered the losses of their number two, three, four, and six players. However, the team fought hard and created a surprise for Coach Cromer as well as their greatest accom­plishment of the season. 
"I attribute our success at Saint Joseph's to the perfor­mances of sophomore Anne Underwood and freshman Jen Brahler," said Cromer. 
She admires the 100% efforts of all the teammates in the meet and throughout the sea­son. 
The remaining two matches for the Belles were disappoint­ing losses, but were still crucial to the team's season. 
"This season was very inter­esting," said Coach Cromer. "There were lots of major ad­justments which I give credit to the girls for their ability to ad­just. Hopefully this season has provided the team with lots of playing experience that will be beneficial to the team in future seasons." 
Waibel also feels that the sea­son was beneficial. 
"The season was rough be­cause of lost players that caused us to move the lineup around," said Waibel. "I expect a great team next year due to our number one, nationally­ranked singles player Kate Kozacik who is a sophomore, along with the number of fresh­man on the team." 
-----------------------------------, 
The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, May 2, 1995 
• COLLEGE fOOTBAll 

Michigan mischief persists 
By HARRY ATKINS 
Associated Press 

ANN ARBOR, Mich. 
James Duderstadt stood in the glare of television lights, trying to explain yet another brush with the law concerning his athletic department. 
The University of Michigan president announced Monday that coach Gary Moeller had been suspended with pay while the school investigates his weekend fight in a restaurant and scuffie with police. 
Clearly, this was not a job the head of a large, proud research institution cherished. Yet trouble somehow keeps finding the Wolverines. In the past two years: 
-Two players from the "Fab Five" basketball team and two others from the Wolverines football team were arrested for stealing beer. 
-The hockey coach was ar­rested for urinating in public. 
-A football player was sus­pended for throwing a student through a plate-glass window. 
-Another football player was arrested for mistakenly shooting at some police officers. 
-Three other football play­ers just admitted their guilt in stealing a credit card and buy­ing merchandise with it. 
"The University of Michigan is a large place," Duderstadt said. "We're a large commu­nity. On occasion such unfortu­nate incidents occur. In the end, those of us in leadership positions have to accept re­sponsibility for that. 

"Such incidents are always quite unfortunate. And when such misfortunes occur, we ob­viously are sorry and if neces­sary make the appropriate apologies and take the neces­sary action." 
Duderstadt said assistant Lloyd Carr had been named in­terim coach. 

He said he was too soon to say whether Moeller might be fired. 
"I think that's very specula­tive at this point," he said. "We want to find what the real facts behind the incident are and the degree to which those have implications for the integrity of our programs and the integrity of the university." 
Duderstadt said Moeller was with athletic director Joe Roberson at a Big Ten meeting in Orlando, Fla. Moeller, who faces arraignment May 8, has declined comment, citing an at­torney's advice. 
"We want to give coach Moeller a fair hearing, a fair investigation," Duderstadt said. "I think it would be quite inap­propriate to speculate what the outcome of that might be. At this stage, we know little more than what has been written in the press." 
Moeller, 54, was released on bond after he was arrested on misdemeanor charges of dis­orderly conduct and assault and battery about 10 p.m. Friday. 


*50% purchase price applies to books ordered for re-use in the fall senzester. 
·'I 
~-----~-~--------­
---~----------~----­

Duo 
continued from page 16 
The two friends are still in the process of meshing their talents at the No.1 doubles entry. Every practice provides an opportunity to build upon tbeir previous success. For example, last Thursday's prac­tice might not have ended in victory, but Crabtree and Lord still learned from the experi­ence. 
"Today we played badly, but I still knew where she was," Lord said. "We were playing more as a team. I think it gets better with every match." 
However, the 1994-1995 campaign does not mark the first time Crabtree and Lord have formed an alliance. Even before they entered Notre Dame, a junior tournament provided the first opportunity for them to play doubles. 
In the fall of their freshman year at Notre Dame, Crabtree and Lord also played together as they received an initial taste of the collegiate doubles world. 
"I've always looked forward ta playing with Holyn," Crabtree added. "We ended up doing pretty well our freshman year and our coach decided to switch some things up this year." 
"It's been nice to play to­
gether again this year and 
hopefully we'll play together 
next year," Crabtree continued. 
After competing together this 
year, the two juniors can see 
how they have gotten a feel for 
each other's game. 
"It's funny sometimes," Lord 
said. "Wendy will signal and 
I'll expect what she's going to 
call before she does it." 
"We've gotten used to playing 
together the whole season now, 
" Crabtree explained. "Usually 
in the first game of a set, I'll know what we are going to do already." 
Besides relying on each other. Crabtree and Lord also appre­ciate team support in their matches. 
The nature of tennis qualifies the sport as individual, but both feel that the collegiate game allows that stigma to be less­ened. 
"This is why I love college tennis so much," said Lord. "When you're out there playing you know that your match is not the only important one and it takes some of the pressure off." 
This type of atmosphere con­trasts to the junior tennis cir­cuit on which Crabtree and Lord both played. 
"In junior tennis everyone is out for blood and it is so indi­vidual," Lord added. "Here, it is nice to know there are people on your side." 
"You don't feel like you're alone because you have coach­es and teammates there helping and supporting you," Crabtree added. 
In addition to doubles. Crabtree and Lord have paced the Irish this year at the No.1 and No.2 singles, respectively. Crabtree finished with a 26-13 mark and is guaranteed a NCAA berth at No.1 singles in the individual portion of the tournament. Despite her suc­cess, the Concord, Massachusetts native noted an affinity for the doubles game. 
"In the past, I've liked dou­
bles better, and I still do," 
Crabtree said. However, there 
is more pressure on doubles in 
college. If you're not playing 
well it can also affect your part­
ner." 

"At the same time, it's more 
fun because you're not out 
there alone," Crabtree added. 
Lord remains on the bubble 
of making the tournament in 
singles with a 19-12 record. 
The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
Coach Jay Louderback congratulates Holyn Lord and Wendy Crabtree after another victory. 

ing to compete in the NCAA tournaments. Bids will be announced today. 
With wins against top-notch schools such as Kansas and Pepperdine, the native from Carmel, Indiana could be head­ing to Malibu when the bids are announced today. 
In the Pepperdine meet, where Lord won 6-0, 6-0, the Irish as a team enjoyed one of their best matches of the sea­son. 
They traveled to California for their first outdoor match and downed Pepperdine 7-2 as Crabtree won her singles match 6-3, 6-4 and the tandem of Crabtree and Lord were vic­torious 6-4, 7-5. 
"I think we knew it was an important match," Crabtree said. "They were a top ten team and we were looking for­ward to playing them all sea­son. It was a good opportunity and everyone really came to­gether and played well." 
It is a win like that one and others against Michigan, Alabama, and Clemson that the Irish hope will propel them to one of the at-large berths that will be announced today. 

"Right now, I'd say our chances are 50-50," Louderback added. "We've had some good wins and no really bad losses, so I'm hoping that will be in our favor." 
The Irish capped off the sea­son with a 6-3 loss to Indiana. which left them with a 14-10 mark. and now occupy the 26th ranking in the country, eleven spots lower then when they began the year. 
"I think we had a tougher schedule this year," said Lord. "Some teams in past years who have not been strong stepped up their level of play during the season. There were no walk­over matches and that was kind of different." 
"The teams have gotten a lot stronger in the midwestern region," Crabtree noted. "However, the only way to move our program to the next level is to play the tougher teams." 
The Irish hope to get another shot at those tough teams in the NCAA tournament. If the teams fails to qualify, Crabtree and Lord will look to represent Notre Dame at their respective spots. 
"Obviously, we'd be disap­pointed not to make the tour­nament," Crabtree said. "That doesn't mean the season was terrible, though. Everyone had a good year, learned a lot, and improved, and that's just as important." 
As for their chances as a dou­bles team. Coach Louderback believes they have a good chance to make some noise. 
"They could do real well in the NCAA's," Louderback said. "Early in the year when they got down, they didn't commu­nicate. However, both of them know tennis well and it was just a matter getting together and learn what each other is do­ing." 
After all. that's what friends are for. 


Surprise your folks. 

When you stay awake in class, you tend to learn more. (Unless you have an un.cann! tal~nt . ® of learning through osmosis.) So don•t let fatigue get in the way of your A, Rev1ve With V1var1n . One tablet has the same amount of caffeine as about two cups of coffee. 
And it's just as safe. Hey, anything is possible, if you•re up for it. 
~.,.lfhKI1ne llefJch.m 01995 ~ConsumerHeaJthcare 
Revive with Vivarin~ 

Use only as directed 


~------------~---­
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, May 2, 1995 
I .. 
I I 
t I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
t 
•NBA 
Knicks outlast Cavs in foul-plagued contest 
By CHUCK MELVIN nearly eight minutes, sinking Associated Press 10 of 12 free throws during the drought.CLEVELAND 
New York took the lead for The New York Knicks won it good when Derek Harper ­
Cleveland-style. who committed seven Patrick Ewing had 23 points turnovers -hit two foul shots and 10 rebounds Monday night, for an 81-79 lead with 36.1 
sending the Knicks past the seconds left. Cleveland's Mark Cavaliers 83-81 in a brutal 
Price then lost the ball on his game that featured an NBA dribble, forcing the Cavs to playoff-record 7 4 foul shots. intentionally foul the Knicks to 
New York leads the best-of-5 try to get back in it. Theyseries 2-1 and can wrap it up stayed close, but Ferry's last­by winning Thursday night at second shot wasn't. GundArena. 
The halftime score ­Cleveland's Danny Ferry had Cleveland leading 38-37 ­a shot at winning it at the end, could almost have been mistak­
but his open 3-point shot from en for a first-quarter score, a beyond the top of the key car­sure sign the Cavs had the pace omed off the rim as the horn the way they like it. 
sounded. 
New York has won its last six Ewing, who picked up two road games against the Cavs, early fouls and missed half of including all three at new Gund the first quarter, still managedArena. to score 10 first-half points to 
Every shot and pass was con­go with Charles Smith's 12, tested by the two teams that keeping the Knicks close. were 1-2 in defense in the NBA 
Chris Mills, the hero of Game this year, in a game that 2, and Price had nine each in crawled at the slow pace the the first half for Cleveland. Cavs have used all season. Price's fourth point of the 
Thirteen of the Knicks' last game, a foul shot late in the 17 points came from the foul first quarter, made him the line, the only field goals during leading scorer in Cavs' playoffthat span coming on consecu­history with 783 points, sur­tive reverse layups by Anthony passing Brad Daugherty's 782. 
Mason. Daugherty, who missed the Cleveland, meanwhile, went 
entire season with a bad back, scoreless from the field for was watching from the bench. 
~<:11111'1~»•ror to prepare 
1995! 

sure your cllls.sroom at 11\cir utmost. Just bring In file and receive pl\otographic 
IS.5"xII" color prints at I0% .savings! 
Also I!Vaiklblc arc color 4"x5"s and 400 dpi, IS.5"xII", color 11\R jet outputs. Mediums range rrom paper, cardst<>CR or ovcrl\cad transparency. 
PRICING INFORMATION: 
[),tc subtiffil:lfio!\ prints S5.40 (11\is summer 01\tt) Color 4"x5's $2.00 Color inR jet output $1.50 coo-ovcrl\cad's $2.00 Color Copies $1.50 




Netters net high honors 
ByB.J. HOOD Sports Wrirer 

Four players and the head coach on the men's tennis team have been chosen to win awards. 
First otT, Coach Bob Bayliss is the regional coach of the year for the third time in his career. 
Freshmen Jakub Pietrowski has been named one of four national winners of the Bill Talbert Junior Sportsmanship Award presented by the International Tennis Hall of Fame in Newport, Rhode Island. 
The award is presented annually by the board of direc­tors of the Hall of Fame to play­ers who exemplify the finest qualities of sportsmanship in tournament play. He will re­ceive his award on July 16 in Newport. 
Junior Mike Sprouse, who plays number two doubles and is ranked number 85 in the na­tion, is the regional winner for the Tennis Magazine/ITA Arthur Ashe Award for Leadership and Scholarship, and the Rafael Osuna plays number one singles for the Arthur Ashe Jr. SportsSportsmanship Award. He is the Irish and is ranked number Scholar Award by Bl<ick Issuesone of eight fmalists for each of 48 in the country. in Higher Education magazine.
these national awards. 
Sophomore Ron Mencias is The award is given for bothSophomore Ryan Simme is one of 450 student-athletes to academic and athletic distinc­the regional winner of the Penn be recognized as a recipient of tion.

Player to Watch Award. Simme 



Prof. Jimmy Gurule 
N.D. Law School 
speaks on 

"Racism and the 
O.J. Simpson Case" TONIGHT 
7:00p.m. St. Edward's Hall 

® •• 
CHIIMPIONSHIPS 
1995 NCAA MEN'S TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS 
THE 
WORLD'S •n•s 
BEST SATURDAY 
COLLEGIATE and
MEN'S TENNIS 
SUNDAY!
PLAYERS ABE 
Courtney Tennis Center
COMIN.C:,.E' 
Fri. @10&11Sat. @1
NOTRE D.cu·• • 

r----~-----~--~------~-------~----------~--~--­
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 

8ECt>..\JSE IT'S Br>-0 Et-\Cl\!6\\ WE. 1-\f:.NE A \'CLE.PI-\o~t: . 
\ 

DlLBERT 
DOGI3ERT'5 TALK RADIO ~ 1-------------t~ 
I'l"\ THE 51"\ARTEST CREATURE  ~  
IN THE UNIVERSE AND '<OU  ~  
Afl..E ALL DOLTS  ~  
~  
CROSSWORD  

TODAY I'/"\ TAKING CALLS 
FROf"\ PE.OPLE-Wl-\0 THINK \HEY UNDEI\STAND COM.PLEX ISSUES BECAUSE THEY 
WATCH ''CROSSFIRE.'' ON CNN 
ACROSS 33 Lover of 61 Old World deer Narcissus 
62 -·-vision

1 Beat, as wings 35 Albee's "The (Superman5 Biblical symbol 
~~Story" skill)of patience 
36 Romeo's 63 Prattlea Spain's Bay of rendezvous 64 30's home run 38 Journalists,

14 Civil rights king
collectively

figure Parks 65 See 30-Down 
42 Ionian island 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
15 Unlatch, poetically 16 Skewer 11 "-~ Breaky Heart"  43 --with (tease) 44 To be, in Paris 45 Clod buster  66 Fast 67 Like: Suffix 68 Guitar's ancestor  
1a Still, to Steele 19 Short stops 20 Intense  46 Picked up the dinner tab 50 Gyroscope's  DOWN 1 Sigma Chi, e.g.  
interrogation  cousin  2----Ness  
23 International  51 Counterfeit coin  3 Ace-serving  
traveler's need  52 Stairway  Arthur  
24 Norse chief  component  4 Programs for  
25 Artery clogger 28 Pirate's sword  54 Refusing to testify  purchase 5 Mendacious  
30 Lived  60 Minor task  salesman of old  
car ads  
60 on a  

telephone 

~•.,THeRe IT/S,.,1H6SONOGRAM SHO~S ~LJ HAVEA H\~&:OUS At.IEN t.IV1Ne tNSit:>5 ~CJ ... DO , ~00 WA~T mKNOW IF rr.s 
A 50Y ORAGIRC.. ?,.........,.,. 
BILL WATIERSON 



SCOTI ADAMS 

r-------------------~ur-------------------~ 
~ ~ 
;u· 
i~ .
.. ~ 
., 
! 
;: 
::> 
"' 
"' 
"' 
Q 
II 
so WHY NOT PUT 
~~~ALL POOR PEOPLE IN ORPHANAGE-57" 
PUT YOUR HEAD UP TO THE SPEAKER, BOB 

CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 

"'Tombstone' wasn't available, but I found something I think you'll like even better. It's a Lithuanian film with Tibetan subtitles." 

•.OF·INTERESTi: 
Comedy Murder Mystery -the Humor Artists will present ~.n hour long interactive comedy show. Solve the Mystery and meet dynamic women. lt will be held 
.• at Washington Hall at 9 p.m. on Tues., May 2. and is sponsored by the Creative Writing Dept. Void where prohibited. 
.~'~ 

The Xaverian Brothers Volunteer Corps will be represented by Brother Bonaventure Scully at the Center for Social Concerns from .1-3 p.m. on Tuesday and Wednesday. Volunteer opportunities are avail· able in Aids Ministry and or inner city teaching, Call 1·7353 for questions and or appointment. 
•MENU Notre Dame 
North Chinese Style Pork Roast Arroz con Polio Turkey Steak 
· Glazed Apple Slices 
Saint Mary's 
..'iW Homestyle Pork Roast ··· Chicken and Noodles French Cut Green Beans 
South Chili Chicken Romano Noodles Peach Pie 

Have something to say? Use The Observer classifieds 
--1 I 
l 
I
• I I 
.. 

a They stand on their own two feet 

9 Ezra Pound and Amy Lowell, e.g. 
disdain 11 Four six-packs 12 Away from the 
weather 13 Qui or ja 

22 ---good turn 
26 Sneeze sound 

Puzzle by Harvey Estes 
27 When repeated, a comforting phrase 
29 1970 hit "Whole --Love" 
30 With 65-Across, Dodge City lawman 
31 Houston player 32 Brew in a teapot 34 Not working 37 Rd. or hwy. 39 Summarized 40 Flamboyant 
successes 
41 Upper canines 55 "Verrrrry 47 Become interesting" depleted of Johnson water 
56 "Star Trek" 48 Omelet need counselor 
49Rock's-57 Hauswife Leppard 
58 Small pastry 51 Slide on ice 59 Preposterous 53 Computer dot publicity 54 Catch animals 60 Nav. rank 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

~5-.,.oo--A~=­
The Staff at RecSpo s would like to thank all those who made this past year successful. 
RECTORS, N.D. SECURITY, THE OBSERVER, N.D. GOLF COURSE, ROCKNE MEMORIAL, N.D. FOOD SERVICES, ROLF'S AQUATIC CENTER, LOFTUS SPORTS CENTER, JOYCE CENTER ICE RINK, ATH­LETIC GROUNDS, RECSERVICE COURSE INSTRUCTORS, HALLATHLETIC COMMISSIONERS, JOYCE CENTER, INTRAMURAL OFFICIALS, AEROBIC INSTRUCTORS, CLUB SPORT OFFICERS & ADVISORS, MEDICAL SERVICES, EMT'S & FIRST AID PERSONNEL, RECSPORT STUDENT SUPERVISORS, ISSUE ROOM WORKERS, LIFE GUARDS, HUMAN RESOURCES AND ALL OF THE PARTICIPANTS. 
631-6100 

• 
SPORTS 

A friend should be there through good times and bad, triumph and defeat, and during every serve and volley. 
For juniors Wendy Crabtree and Holyn Lord, the latter part of that friendship equation has rang true this year as the No.1 and No.2 sin­gles players joined forces to shore up the No.1 doubles spot. 
And there's nothing like two friends getting together to play a little tennis. . "We're good friends," Lord said. "I think that has helped because we've learned where each other is on the court." 

"Their friendship has benefitted them because when they get down, they can communicate in close matches," women's head coach Jay Louderback said. 
Lately, the only communication Crabtree and Lord have needed is to congratulate each other after winning 8 of their last 11 matches. They fmished the season with a 19­9 record and are on the brink of competing in their first NCAA tournament together. 
"Their consistency has kept on improving throughout the year." Louderback added. 
see DUO I page 13 
Tuesday, May 2, 1995 
I 

Doubles partners Wendy Crabtree (left) and Holyn Lord (right) are a fierce tandem for the Notre Dame women stennis team 
• BASEBAll 

Irish rebound to win MCC title 
By MEGAN McGRATH inning. 
Spons Writer The Huskies responded in the home half of the frame with their own grand slam, from second The Notre Dame baseball team prides itself on baseman Marc McShane. It was McShane's first 
its ability to bounce back. career home run. 
Mter dropping a rain-soaked, sloppily played But Irish starter Darin Schmalz settled down 9-1 decision to Alabama last week, coach Paul and earned his seventh win of the year, lasting Mainieri didn't worry about his team. six innings and giving up seven hits. 
"We always come back after games like that," Restovich went 2-3 in the game with six runs the coach said. He has reason to be confident: batted in. Craig DeSensi went 3-5 with a double until this weekend his Irish had only lost back-to­and three RBI. hack games on two occasions. In game two Notre Dame struck early again, 
So after losing both games of a double-header putting five runs on the board in the first two Saturday 4-3 and 6-5 at Northern Illinois, and innings. losing leading hitters Ryan Topham and Mike Junior Rowan Richards cranked a three-run Amrhein to injuries, the team remained sure homer in the top of the third, and RBI singles by they could come back the next day and claim the Brock and Brooks gave the Irish the lead: MCC title. But starter Dan Stavisky ran into trouble. The 
Sunday Notre Dame swept the twin-bill, claim­freshman allowed four runs in the second and ing their conference's Western Division Title with third innings, prompting Mainieri to replace him 17-7 and 7-4 wins. with Mike Balicki. Balicki earned the win, going 
In Sunday's first game, a revamped Irish line­five and a third innings and allowing just three up put on an offensive clinic, in spite of Topham, hits. Senior Rich Sauget threw the ninth to earn who was nursing a strained right shoulder, and his first save. Amrhein's absence. In game one on Saturday, the Irish had a 2-0 
Notre Dame benefitted from a nine-run second lead heading into the seventh, but were unable to inning, getting four runs on a grand slam by put the Huskies away. George Restovich. J.J. Brock, Randall Brooks and Scott Sollmann all had RBI singles in the see BASEBALL I page 11 
Rough season co01es to a close for Belles 
By CAROLINE BLUM Saint Joseph's College and Saint Mary's Sports Editor DePauw, but beat Valparaiso University. Both losses were 
Although the Saint Mary's extremely close. The fall sea­
tennis team ended their spring son was important for the season with a 9-0 loss last Belles because it provided their Tuesday, the team describes new members with match ex­
their season with nothing other perience, and gave the team a than words of hard work and glimpse of the competition be­dedication. fore entering the traditional The Belles planned on playing spring season in March. Albion College last Thursday, Entering into their springbut had to cancel due to the in­
season. however, left some dif­jury of senior Robin Hrycko and 

ficult questions with the Belles. bad weather, bringing their fi­They suffered rough losses of nal season record to 9-12. The 
not only their number three record not only includes the player Jen Kelley but their scores of their spring season, number four player, Nora but of their fall and spring 

Slusar. This forced the team to training matches as well. be challenged in a face-off 
The team began their journey against each other, in order to through the tennis season with realign their numerical sta­their fall matches beginning in September. The Belles fell to see TENNIS/ page 12 
Tuesday, May 2 

Wednesday, May 3 Thursday, May 4 
Friday, May 5 
ND Softball vs. Northwestern, 
ND Baseball vs. 
ND Baseball at Michigan, 7 p.m. 

No varsity spons today. 3 p.m. 
Northeastern Illinois, 7 p.m. 
ND Baseball at Central Michigan, 
ND Men's Tennis--NCAA Regionals 
2p.m. 
Eck Tennis Pavilion 




