
Thursday, March 23,1995• Vol. XXVI No.107 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Maya Angelou lecture scheduled for April 
Special to the Observer 
Maya Angelou's lecture, whieh was originally seheduled for October but was canceled due to health problems, has bnen rescheduled for Saturday April 8, at 7:30pm. The loca­
tion has been changed f r o m O'Laughlin Auditorium to Angela Athletic Facility whieh is 

located on Angelou the north end of the Saint Mary's cam­pus. 
Saint Mary's will honor all tickets whieh were distributed earlier. An additional number of tickets will be available for Saint Mary's faculty, adminis­trators, and staff (two tickets per person) on March 23-24 . Saint Mary's students may also receive one ticket per student with lD at this time. 
Ti\~kets for the general public will be available on March 28. Tickets will be limited to two per person. 
All tickets, which are free, are available at the Saint Mary's Box Office, located in ()'Laughlin Auditorium from <Jam. to 5pm. No phone orders will be taken. 
The night of the event, doors will open at 6:30pm. There will be general admission seating (no reserved seats) for ticket holders only. Questions can be directed to the Saint Mary's College Box Office at 219-284­4626. 
Angelou, a poet, educator, actress, best-selling author and civil rights activist, has been hailed as one of the great voic­es of contemporary African­American literature. 
Among the highlights of her career as an artist is the poem "On the Pulse of Morning," composed for President Bill Clinton's inauguration. Angelou has been nominated for a Pulitzer Prize for "Just Give Me a Cool Drink of Water 'fore I Die," the National Book Award for the autobiographical "I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings," a Tony award for her acting in "Look Away" and an Emmy for her role as Kunta Kinte's grandmother in "Roots." 
Angelou currently teaches at Wake Forest University is North Carolina, where she was awarded a lifetime position as the first Reynolds Professor of American Studies. 
Angelou believes in social change for the betterment of those who have yet to share fully in the American dream. Today, she continues her work and lectures throughout the country and abroad, sharing the African-American experi­ence and educating her audi­ence on the human condition. 


Keenan begins Diversity Week 
Guest speaker Delores Huerta stresses action 
By EDWARD IMBUS Associate News Editor 
Delores Huerta, the co­founder of United Farm Work­ers union, has "a message to get out." 
Speaking in the first event of Diversity Week, sponsored by Keenan and Lewis Halls, Huerta stated that minorities of America have continually been subject to massive discrimina­tion, and "society still has a lot of racism." 
That racism, she said, can be seen through several facts, such as that Native Americans have the highest mortality rates in society, that people of color are "convicted more often and given harsher sentences for felonies," and the disparity in elected offices, such as those in Congress. 
"At the rate we're going, we'll have gender and ethnic balance in 350 years," she said. 
Huerta criticized the educa­tional system for "institutional­izing racism in schools, ... and giv[ing] only half an education." She advocated ethnic studies programs to be required in all schools to allow minorities to learn about their particular contributions to history and end "the incredible amount of igno­rance which perpetuates itself." 
She also denounced proposed 


USS Bunker Hill docks in China 
By RENEE SCHOOF 
Associated Press 
QINGDAO. China 

As a Chinese military band played "The Star Spangled Banner" on shore, the USS Bunker Hill sailed into port Wednesday on the lirst visit by an American warship since China's 1989 crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrators. 
Chinese sailors lined up on the decks of nearby destroyers to welcome the ship. 
The United States suspended military relations with China after its army attacked demon­strators in Beijing on June 4, 1989, killing hundreds of peo­ple. Iligh-level talks resumed in 1993, and Defense Secretary William Perry visited China last fall. 
Rear Adm. Bernard J. Smith, commander of the Navy's Car­rier Group Five, called the Bunker Hill's port call a friend­ship visit and insisted there was nothing political about it. 
"I would say we regard the Chinese navy as a friendly 
navy," Smith said. U.S. Navy officials know little about how their Chinese counterparts op­erate, and Smith said they hoped to learn more during the Bunker Hill's visit. 
It was the third visit since Communist China was founded in 1949. Warships visited Qing­dao's nuclear submarine base in 1986, and in 1989 the navy made a port call at Shanghai a day before Premier Li Peng declared martial law in Beijing as a precursor to the military crackdown. 


cuts in welfare programs, say­minorities, such as the Asian 
ing that minorities were being Exclusion Act of California, 
blamed for problems they did which prohibited Asian immi­
not create. grants to own land or to marry 
"Immigrants pay $500 billion whites. Huerta said it was un­
in taxes, but get $97 billion in conscionable to pass the law, 
return, most of which has gone especially when coupled with 
to refugee programs," rather strict immigration controls that 
than to the immigrants who allowed only one Asian woman 
paid the taxes initially, she said, for every 50 Asian men, usually 
also noting that "The savings coming to America in their 
and loans went broke, and so teens. 
did Orange Country (of Califor­Native Americans have also 
nia), but not by immigrants or been subject to racism, accord­
welfare mothers." She pre­ing to Huerta, who stated that 
dicted that cutting public assis­several groups of Native Ameri­
tance programs would brings cans, such as the Arawak Indi­
more homelessness and more ans, became extinct due to both 
crime. active and passive actions by a 
Huerta cited several historieal pervasive white-supremacist 
examples of prejudice against attitude. 

Lecture series highlights foot washing rituals 
By LAURA FERGUSON 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
The simple act of washing an other's feet speaks, inspires and empowers the community to do as Jesus had done, according to Eleanor Bernstein CSJ in a lecture yesterday at Saint Mary's. 
"The mutuality of foot wash­ing is about serving others and being served and bending over is spite of status or position," said Bernstein. 
The tradition of foot washing has been part of the human ex­perience for many years. Its earliest usage was as a sign of hospitality to travelers and guests after traveling on dusty roads. 
Later it became an initiation rite as bishops washed the feet of the newest church members. 
Monarchs have also washed the feet of the poor and offered them alms, according to Bern­stein. Often there was one pau­per for each year of the monar­ch's life. 
"It was a way for persons of authority to share their wealth," she said. 
It wasn't until 1956 that foot washing was formally intro­duced into the liturgy. 
According to Bernstein it was to be an action of'> a leader washing the feet of 12 men, although there was no previous designation of men only. 
"The problem of the exclusion of women is a modern problem, not a historical one," she said. 
The benefit of foot washing is to not just tell the story of Jesus' service to others but to do the story. According to Bernstein, it helps to shape our attitudes. 
"We do it so we can grow into a way of thinking," she said. "Doing it helps to discover a proper way of being with each other and being with God." 
Bernstein also commented that foot washing is a menial task yet it is the last intimate action Jesus performed with his disciples before dying. 
"Jesus declared that the dis­ciples must imitate him as a servant if they were going to be like him. They must do as he had done," Bernstein said. 
Bernstein is the current di­rector of the Center for Pastoral Liturgy at Notre Dame. Her lec­ture yesterday was the second in the endowed lecture series honoring the Sisters of the Holy Cross. 
The Lenten series is spon­sored by the Center for Spirituality. 
The next lecture will be March 29 at 12:15 p.m. in Sta­pleton Lounge at Saint Mary's. Paul Philibert will deliver his lecture titled, "Foot Washing: A Lens for Spiritual Insight." 
------------~ -~-~ ~-------------------­page2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, March 23, 1995 

• INSIDE COLUMN 
I'll 


do it to01orrow 
I am a procrastinator.

A grade A, first-class, Christy Kenny 
reputable procrastinator. Accent Copy Editor I'm not particularly proud of it or anything; that's the way I am. And when I explain to people that procrastination is permanently embedded in my biological make­up, they think I am making excuses for my fla­grant lack of discipline -my rationalization for taking hours of study breaks, for succumbing to my desire to call everyone in my telephone b·ook, or for going out on weekday nights. But I am completely convinced that it is my innate tendency, for I trace_it back to my childhood. 
I can remember when I was just a pint­sized girl of seven in a class of twenty bright­eyed youngsters. My second grade teacher, Mrs. Safchik, would give us our daily assign­ments, and the class would eagerly dive into reading comprehension questions. I, however, would procrastinate. I would sit and day­dream, talk, read Peanuts comics on my lunch box, or do anything besides the assigned work. And when Mrs. Safchik would say, "Girls and boys, hand in your papers now," I was seized with anxiety, for I didn't have anything written except my name and the date. So I remedied my predicament by stuffing the page into my desk, convincing myself that I would finish it later. 
Well, this continued for a few months until so many papers accumulated that they began to peer out through tiny cracks in my desk, and became so conspicuous that Mrs. Safchik warned me I'd have to clean out my desk after s~hool someday. 
Clean out my desk? I thought, She can't see all this unfinished work. I'll have to straighten it out before she does, but I'll wait till tomor­row ... 
Well tomorrow passed and then two weeks 
passed, and I kept hoping Mrs. Safchik would 
suffer memory loss and forget about my desk. 
But it didn't happen, and finally my day of 
doom arrived. 
It was a dark day in February, one of the 
most humiliating of my life. Mrs. Safchik kept 
her promise to me, with one exception. Instead 
of cleaning after school, she thought it would 
be better if I performed the task during class. 
Mrs. Safchik would remove each paper from 
my desk, uncrumple it, and read out the date 
of each page. When she got to the September 
assignments, the class was rolling with laugh­
ter. Tears streamed down my face as my year 
of procrastination was exposed to the whole 
class. 
You would think that such an experience would have taught me a lesson. But did it? NO. Nor did other countless attempts to change this proclivity toward a procrastinating lifestyle. Today you will always find me typing frantically five minutes before a paper is due, vowing that it will never happen again, that I will change my ways. Somehow I don't think it will happen, but that's something to worry about for another day ... 
·For those of you who are struggling against your core tendency to procrastinate, STOP NOW! It's futile. Be true to yourself, take that very long Papa John's study break, and feel content! 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily 
those ofThe Observer .  
• TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Production  
Morgan Bracken Vivian Gembara Sports Andy Cabiness Abby May Accent Tom Johannesen  Heather Gibson Tara Grieshop Accent Tom Johannesen Viewpoint Margee Husemann Michael O'Hara  
Accent  Lab Tech  
Tom Johannesen  Nicky Barill Michael Hungeling  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Frid:y except during exam and vacacion periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction righls are reserved. 

• WORlD AT A GLANCE 
Turkish troops on offensive in northern Iraq 
DARKARJAN, Iraq K d tt kli k" h
Turkish troops rolled past Kurdish vil-ur s a ac ur IS lag~s Wednesd~y in a massive offensi:ve targets in Germany 
agamst a Kurdish rebel movement, rais­ing worldwide concern for civilians caught in the fighting. 
Air strikes and shelling continued for a third day along the 20-mile-wide north­ern Iraqi border region. Turkey sent in 35,000 troops Monday to try to rout rebels of the outlawed separatist Kurdistan Workers Party, or PKK. 
Turkey claims about 2,800 guerrillas are operating in northern Iraq. The operation has been criticized by 
Helicopters ferried in reinforcements Wednesday and at least seven battles were raging, the Anatolia news agency said. 
The Red Cross appealed Wednesday to Turkey to spare the lives of thousands of 
• INDiANA WEATHER 

the  Red  Cross,  the  U.N.  High  
Commissioner  for  Refugees,  and  
European nations.  


Kurds make up one-fifth of Turkey's 
Kurdish civilians who fled from Turkey L-----'-------l..=C":"7"""-=,.,..-J 
• NATIONAL WEATHER 

VIa Auoclat.d PreP 

Atlanta  78  55  Dallas  82  60  New Orleans 84  63  
Baltimore 58  34  Denver  56  34  New York  53  37  
Boston  44  36  Los Angeles 62  43  Philadelphia 54  35  
Chicago  50  28  Miami  87  68  Phoenix 69  48  
Columbus 55  32  Minneapolis49  30  St. Louis  69  45  

last year and are living in refugee camps in the border region. The United States also called on Turkey to exercise re­straint and to respect the rights of civilians. 
Law wipes out Brady Bill provision 
ATLANTA 
Gov. Zell Miller signed a law Wednesday freeing Georgia from the Brady Law's waiting period for hand­gun buyers, capping a legislative ses­sion in which the once-moderate Democrat moved farther to the right. The measure, which also wipes out longer waiting periods imposed in 10 Georgia cities and counties, including 

Atlanta, was a major victory for the National Rifle Association, whose lobbyists flanked Miller during the signing. The law is designed to take advantage of a pro­vision in the federal Brady Law that exempts states from the waiting period if they implement an instant back­ground check. Georgia is awaiting a reply from the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms on whether the new state law meets Brady requirements. Only 26 states and Puerto Rico are subject to the Brady Law, according to the ATF; the others have exempted themselves through a variety of alternatives, including instant back­ground checks. 
McDonald's liable in accident 
SALEM 
McDonald's is liable for damages in an auto accident caused by an employee who worked unusually long hours, the Oregon Court of Appeals ruled Wednesday. The employer "was much like a bartender who served alcoholic beverages to a visibly intoxicated person who then caused an automobile accident that harmed anoth­er," the court said in a S-4 ruling. The S-4 ruling upheld a jury's decision that McDonald's must pay $375,000 to Frederic Faverty, who was injured when a car driven by Matt Theurer crossed the center line and hit his car in 1988. Theurer, 18, was killed after nodding off while dri­ving home after working more than 12 hours in a 17­hour period. Though the restaurant had policies against split shifts and against high school students working past midnight more than once a week, Theurer volunteered to do so more frequently when asked by managers. Mc­Donald's will appeal to the state Supreme Court said spokeswoman Jane Hulbert. 
"We have urged (Turkey) to keep the operation limited in duration and scope, and to give full respect for human rights and international law," Secretary of State Warren Christopher said Wednesday in Paris. 
In its first comment on the offensive, Baghdad protested a "violation of Iraq's sovereignty" and demanded Turkey withdraw its troops, the official Iraqi News Agency said. 
Foreign Ministry spokesman Fehat Ataman defended the action Wednesday and said it was not endangering civil­ians. Instead, Turkey was acting to "exterminate a threat to the lives and security of its citizens," Ataman said in the Turkish capital, Ankara. 
A military official, who spoke on con­dition of anonymity, said the army could remain in the area until the end of sum­mer. 
More than 15,000 people have been killed in the fighting since 1984. 
60 million people. Repression of their 
cultural rights and the harsh military crackdown has won the PKK hundreds of thousands of sympathizers over the past decade. 
Man jailed in death of wife 
COPPERAS COVE 
He's had four wives. Two are dead, one's missing, and he's jailed as a murder suspect. Jack Reeves, 54, was ar­rested on a murder charge Tuesday in the 1978 death of his second wife, Sharon, as police searched for his cur­rent wife, Emilita, who hasn't been seen since Oct. 12. His third wife, Myong Reeves, drowned in 1986. The death was ruled accidental, no autopsy was performed and Hill County authorities declined to say Wednesday night if the case would be reopened. Police searched Reeves' home Wednesday in hopes of finding the 20­gauge shotgun they suspect was used to kill 34-year-old Sharon Reeves. They began investigating Reeves after learning he'd never reported the disappearance of his current wife. Back in 1978, Sharon Reeves' death was ruled a suicide. Authorities said she shot herself in the chest at her home in Copperas Cove, a town of about 24,000 people approximately 130 miles southwest of Dallas. In December, however, her body was exhumed and an autopsy found the wound "suggestive of a homi­cide," said Dee Anderson, a spokesman for the police in Arlington. 
Charleston mural deemed 'garish' 
CHARLESTON 
Robert Burke contends his mural -a cartoon-like tableau of brightly colored skies, smiling mountains and fantastic creatures -is whimsical, not garish, and the city violated his free-speech rights in ordering him to put it under wraps. On Wednesday, the first day of his non­jury trial, Burke told U.S. District Judge Cam Currie that the make-believe world depicted in the mural is partly a reaction to prim and proper Charleston. "I have a lot of problems with the way this city is segregated," he said. "It seems a shame most of the nice places are where the white people live downtown." Two years ago, Burke was paid $500 to paint the mural outside a restaurant near the College of Charleston in the city's tightly regulated historic district, where horse-drawn carriages meander past pre-Revolutionary War buildings and permission must be obtained to change the color of a door. After hearing testimony from the artist and art experts, the board denied the permit. 
Thursday, March 23, 1995 

The Observer/Nicky Batill 
Reading between the lines 
Kenneth Bush, from the Social Science and Humanities Research Council of Canada, spoke yesterday on "Learning to Read Between th'e Lines: Bringing the Intra Group Dimension into Ethics Conflict." 
PRESENTS 

SOUTH BEND RECORD&CD COLLECTOR'S SHOW 
SUNDAY, MARCH 26TH 10:00 AM-5:00PM 
AT: THE HOUDAY INN (UNIVERSITY) SlS DOOEWAY N. US 31 • 33 NORTii 
BUY. SELL.TRADE .......,,,~ COLLECI'IBLES FROM THE 
SO's 60's 70's SO's 90's 
LP's · CD'• •45'• • 12 ilocJo •inl/a • ilrlpom f'iliiCT. · -If~ · boo.b • COIIOIT1 plootDJ • ViiJeo.r 1 •hlru . auunD -piJu • pa1cloc GNIIfWda tNJre1!1 
., (6l'l J75-l776 
The Observer • NEWS 

Gunmen attack train in Egypt 
Associated Press 
CAIRO 
Gunmen suspected of being Muslim militants killed five people and wounded three others Wednesday after climb­ing aboard a passenger train to attack police guards. The police killed one of the attack­ers. 
The gunmen opened fire as the train traveled from the vil­lage of Mahras to Itlidin in Minya province, a militant­dominated area about 135 miles south of Cairo. Police did not say how many attackers boarded the train. 
They killed two detectives, two civilians and one person who wasn't identified, said the officials, speaking on condition of anonymity. Two other detec­tives and a passenger were wounded. 
Detectives returned fire, killing one of the militants. The other militants apparently jumped off the train unharmed. Police detectives often ride trains to guard against militant attacks. 
Passenger trains and Nile River cruise boats have been targeted in the radicals' cam­paign to overthrow the gov­ernment and create an Islamic state. 


MORRISSEY Fl LM FESTIVAL 
FILMS DUE TODAY! ROOM 105 MORRISSEY 



QUESTIONS? CALL: SCOTT X3454 
page 3 

Republicans plan to rewrite clean water act 
By H. JOSEF HEBERT 
Associated Press 

· WASHINGTON 
House Republicans intro­duced legislation Wednesday to overhaul a law protecting lakes and streams, aiming to reduce costs to industry, agriculture and local communities. · 
Rep. Bud Shuster. R-PA, chairman of the committee considering the bill, said it would reduce the Environmen­tal Protection Agency's "heavy­handed ...intervention" and provide flexibility to those who are regulated under the law. 
But critics, including many Democrats on Shuster's Trans­portation and Infrastructure Committee, charged the legisla­tion was crafted by industry lobbyists and would gut major portions of the Clean Water Act, one of the nation's land­mark environmental protection laws. 
"It's a polluter's bill of rights," said Rep. Norman Mineta, D-CA., ranking Demo­crat on the committee. He criti­cized how the bill was drafted with the close involvement of interest groups it would regu­late. 
The bill would revamp exist­ing controls on "storm-water" pollution, which is washed by rain into rivers and lakes from . factories, mines and city streets. 
It also makes no mention of regulating pesticide runoffs from farms, something the Clinton administration has con­sidered essential. It would incorporate a property "tak­ings" provision that would require compensation if land value is reduced because it is declared a wetland. 
Rep. Hobert Borski, D-Pa., the ranking minority member on the subcommittee consider­ing the legislation, also criti­cized industry's role in writing the bill. The bill was crafted with the help of a number of "task forces" whose members were made up of representa­tives from various groups regu­lated by the law. 
While Shuster called the b'ill a bipartisan effort because it includes some Democrats as sponsors, Mineta said 

UN alarmed by more fighting in Yugoslavia 
By SRECKO LATAL 
Associated Press 

SAHAJEVO 
A Bosnian Serb leader today warned his fighters would not tolerate another offensive like the battle by government forces for strategic Serb positions in the northeast. 
The fighting in the Majevica hills and other important heights in central Bosnia has alarmed U.N. officials who ap­pealed to both sides to stop be­fore a four-month truce col­lapses completely. 
"This will be the final battle, the last attack" on Serb forces. declared Bosnian Serb leader Momcilo Krajisnikr. Serb fight­ers are " prepared to respond with all available means," he told the Serb weekly Javnost. 
Serbs fear the Majevica of­fensive is part of a push by gov­ernment forces to seize a vital Serb supply corridor in the ex­treme northeast. If it were cut, Serbs in western Bosnia and in Serb-held parts of Croatia would be severely weakened. 
Diplomats have so far failed to avert a major spring offen­sive both sides have threat­ened, and Bosnian Vice President Ejup Ganic said his government was acting to counter "weak diplomacy." 
Government forces appar­ently are trying to wrest control of artillery positions on Maje­vica used by the Serbs to fire on the second-largest govern­ment~held city of Tuzla. 
U.N. officials said there were indications that government troops had gained one or two square miles. but U.N. assess­ments have been limited by re­strictions on peacekeepers' movements. 
Both sides have accused the other of starting the lateset fighting, but U.N. officials said it appeared the government at­tacked. 

Attention Hospitality Progrant Mentbers. 
Tonight at 7:00 p.m. in Cushing Auditorium, we will have our final meeting to prepare for April Visitation. Ifyou did not attend last night's meeting, please come tonight. Please bring your personal calendar and a pen. 
Questions? Call: 

Colleen Walton  Jennifer Carrier  
Student Coordinator  Undergraduate Admissions  
4-4945  1-7505  


---~-------~---~ --~-------------------~--------.., 
The Observer • NEWS Thursday, March 23, 1995 

Line-item veto bill to pass soon 
was not immediately clear 
ther he worked at the 
station where the slay-
took place or the main of­
town. However, he knew 
employees slain, . J.litJithlnifiRs said. 
was to appear in fed-. court in Newark on tw~aru:le-:S<lii.Y oncharges of roh­

at,···· . ##'·.···~··· • 

59. Da11fid ''lirl 
sR~t · 
in critical. · 
All the VJCILUn:!l'll'Ved clair AXI~Ail•t lived in 
The attack mally quiet, middle-to upper­middle~class community of about 38,000 people,15 miles west ofNew York City. 
Frank Grippa.ldi, owner of Sizz Haircutters, said he was shocked that the violence hit so close to home. "Ijust was· there yesterday;• h~ mailed my income-tax 
and l  was t  
w  1 knew•  
He  

.............. 
lt( KE~~l;i1LL lt( 
sponsors: 
Human Rights and 


Cultural Diversity Week 
Schedule of Events 
• Friday. March 24 

5Deaker: Mre. Lole Maeon 5abor Latino f.6oth 5idee ofthe Rac::ialleeue" Keenan Commone Keenan Commone 10:00pm·12:00 midnight 7:00pm 
• Saturday. March 25 

6ARANGA gamee Panel DleGueelon Keenan Commone "Rac::e Relatione at Notre Dame" 6::30pm Keenan Commone 7:00pm 
Short Movie: "Lunc::h Date" Keenan Commone immediatly following Diec::ueeion 
• Sunday. March 26 

Maee with Father Jonee Mutic::ultural Dinner from Chic::ago Keenan Commons Keenan Chapel 5::30pm 4::30pm RSVP only 
Ou•li11rw allMigulll B~U~~Stllin Ill 4-3382 11r lhvlhlll" B11~U~Jmntru'fl at 1-7353 
ByJIM ABRAMS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Senate leaders put partisan wrangling aside for the moment Wednesday and agreed to move swiftly to pass a line-item veto bill. 
Majority Leader Bob Dole, R­Kan., saying he was satisfied Democrats were trying to make progress on the bill, called off a vote on limiting further debate. That decision came about two hours before the planned vote that Democrats had contended was an attempt to silence their concerns. 
The measure would give the president authority to eliminate individual projects from spend­ing bills. Presidents, including President Clinton, have long sought such veto power as a way to slash specific items without having to veto entire appropriations bills. 
Senate debate has been marred by a sharp partisan ex­changes, with Democrats say­ing the Republicans were trying to ram the bill through and Re­publicans accusing Democrats of stalling. 
Dole threatened the cloture vote to limit debate after Democrats on Tuesday pre­sented him with a list of 33 amendments they wanted con­sidered. By Wednesday after­noon, that number had been reduced to about a dozen and Dole canceled the vote. 
His Democratic counterpart, Tom Daschle of South Dakota, welcomed Dole's decision. Ear­lier, Daschle had urged that the divisive vote on closing debate be avoided, saying he hoped the Republicans "have learned their lesson that it doesn't work for them or for us to have floor fights when it comes to the rights of the minority." 
Supporters of a line-item veto bill say it would control con­gressional pork-barrel spending that helps only individual areas or interests. Opponents say it would cede too much power to the presiqent, upsetting the bal­ance of power between the con­gressional and executive branches of government. 
Dole said he thought a final vote on the bill could occur Thursday or Friday, sending it to a House-Senate conference to iron out differences with a measure the House passed Feb. 6 by a vote of 294-134. 
The Republican bill on the Senate floor, like the House bill, would require a two-thirds ma­jority in both houses to override a presidential veto of any spe­cific spending project within a bill. 
Democr11ts on Wednesday were offering their own version stating that a simple majority be sufficient to override a veto. That was included in an earlier, now-defunct, bipartisan ver­sion. 
Sen. Frank Lautenberg, D­NJ., arguing against the two­thirds requirement, said, "It would allow a president to uni­laterally eliminate funding for entire programs, and this would give a single individual the power to kill major initia­tives" in education, law en­forcement and other programs. 
Republican opposition helped defeat, 50-48, an amendment by Sen. Bill Bradley, D-NJ., that would have broadened the president's power to eliminate tax breaks that benefit a limited number of taxpayers. 
The Republican bill, a com­promise package worked out last weekend to reconcile dif­ferent versions, makes conces­sions to Democrats by giving the president some authority to veto tax breaks. 


Jimmy Carter Work Projects 
Los Angeles, California 
June 17-25, 1995 ND will sponsor 1 of30 homes to be built during this "Habitat for Humanity" week. We are looking for 6 students to join 14 alumni in this special project (transportation not included). 
Applications available in the in the Alumni Office 
201 Main Building 

All Applications due April 3 
~~~­
c.-lOr...... 
t 

The FACULTY Series 
TIMELY TOPICS 
An opportunity to enter into conversation with colleagues on current ethical and religious issues. 
"WHERE AM I WHEN I AM IN AFRICA?" The Ethics of Seeing & The Ethics ofReading 

Presentation by Patrick Gaffney, CSC and 
Associate Professor of Anthropology 

Response by Donald Sniegowski 
Associate Professor of English 


Thursday, March 30 4:30p.m. at 115 Decio 
Faculty, Professional Staff & Graduate Students Welcome 
Sponsored by:  The Department  The Center for  The Office of  
of Theology  Social Concerns  Campus Ministry  
--Light Refreshments will follow  



Thursday, March 23, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Police raids yield booty of gas, cash and gold 
By LAURA KING wooded foothills of Mount Fuji, Associated Press police found about 50 people who were weak and ill, and six TOKYO were hospitalized. Doctors said 
Police seized nerve-gas sol-they were probably suffering vent, $7.9 million in cash and from malnutrition. 22 pounds of gold Wednesday Other sect members were at two dozen sites linked to a bizarrly dressed and appeared secretive religious sect that disoriented. And a 23-year-old calls itself the Sublime Truth. woman sect member was re-
Several sect members were portedly rescued from a con­arrested in a kidnapping case, tainer where she had been con­but police refused to say fined. whether they were also being Police said they could not questioned in Monday's subway confirm that report, by Kyodo attack. Ten people were killed News Service.The nerve gas and nearly 5,000 sickened by attack has left Japanese the poisonous gas released dur-shocked by both the assault on ing rush hour. their safe, efficient train system 
The cult-like group Aum and their orderly way of life. Shinri Kyo has denied any role "While it is hard to build a in the attack. There was still no safe society, it is very easy to known motive and no claim of destroy it," commented the na­responsibility. tional newspaper Asahi. 
In a chilling development, the Wednesday was the first nor­sect's leader, Shoko Asahara, mal rush-hour on the subways was reported to have delivered since the attack, which shut an apocalyptic-sounding mes-down three busy lines in the sage Tuesday to followers in the heart of Tokyo. Chemical-war­Hussian Far East. fare experts in masks and pro­
"The time has come at last for tective clothing had sprayed the you to awake and help me," cars and platforms to neutralize Asahara said in the message, the gas. broadcast Wednesday night by Throughout the system, signs Japan's NIIK television. "You warned passenger to be vigilant must act to ensure you do not in reporting suspicious persons have any regrets about death." or unattended parcels. Many 
The police raids provided passengers appeared jittery at frightening evidence of the being back on the train, but sect's hold over its followers. said they had no other way to 
At a cult compound in the get to work. 
Newspapers put out special editions Wednesday about the raids, and television showed non-stop live footage of hun­dreds of police massing outside sect buildings and hauling away dozens of blue drums of chemi­cals. 
Police refused to discuss the seized chemicals, but Kyodo said they included a solvent used to make sarin, the nerve gas used in the subway attack. 
The gas, developed by Nazi scientists, caused passengers to retch, faint and have convul­sions. Several hundred people remained hospitalized in the wake of the attack, 52 of them in serious or critical condition. 
Despite the resolve the raids showed, authorities were clear­ly treating the sect with consid­erable caution. Police employed notable restraint, using no weapons to subdue sect follow­ers who resisted. 
Officials even refused to specifically say the raids were in connection with the subway attack, instead citing their in­vestigation of a public notary's kidnapping unrelated. 
But it was widely assumed that the impetus was the sub­way attack, and police took ev­ery precaution against a possi­ble chemical-weapons clash. Officers wore gas m~sks and protective suits and carried computerized gas sniffers. 
Notre Baine Black La-w-~tudent8 .&88ociation 
22nd Annual Alumni Weekend 
Panel Discussion: Race, Media & the Law 
Saturday, March 25th, 1995 -1:30 p.m. Notre Dame Law School Courtroom 
Panelist include: 

Debra Daniel -WSBT-TV South Bend Prof. G. Robert Blakey-Notre Dame Law Professor Cleo Washington-South Bend Attorney 
Guest Speaker: Rapbeal M Prevot, Jr. National Football Leage Attorney 
Saturday, March 25th, 1995 -8:00 p.m. Hesburgh Center for Int'l Peace Studies Auditorium 
Attention Juniors interested in the Rhodes and Marshall Scholarships 
Professor Walter F. Pratt, Jr. will have a meeting to inform you of deadline dates and the Fall application process on 
Tuesday, March 28, 1995 
6:30 p.m. 101 Law School 
If you are unable to attend this meeting, a sheet of information may be obtained in 102-B O'Shaughnessy Hall after the meeting date. 
Police raid cult sites throughout Japan 
Police raided 25 sites of Aum Shinri Kyo, a religious group believed to manufacture the Sea of gas that poisoned Tokyo's subways. 
Japa11 

,.. Eleven sites in Kamikuishiki: communes, warehouses and other 
kyo
facilities. 
,.. Two locations in Shizuoka prefecture, including the group's headquarters in Fujinomiya. 
200 miles 

,.. Twelve locations in Tokyo and ~ surrounding towns, including the 200km group's main building. 



0 Tokyo headquarters 0 Shibuya branch 

f) 
New Tokyo headquarters (residence and meditation center) 

E) 
Aum Shinri Kyo Hospital8 Nogato -Meditation and Yoga Club 0 Suginami -Meditation center 0 Suginami -Asahara fun club 


Chronology of the raid 
Tuesday, March 21 A// times local 

1:30 p.m. Aum Shlnri Kyo sect calls a news conlerence 1<> deny any involvement In the attacks. 
Wednesday, March 22 7 a.m .Police raids begin at sect Installations natlonwkl$. 
Source: National Geographic Atlas 
Cl) Superstar Academy Co. 0 Setagaya -Meditation center 
G) Setagaya -Dormitory G Setagaya Wakabayashi branch 
0 Aum Shinri Kyo Co. 
11:40 a.m. Investigators reportedly find nerve gas solvent at sect facilities. About 50 sect followers are found disoriented and suffering from malnutrition. Six are hospitalized. 
8 p.m. Raids at all locations are finished. Searches of largest facility scheduled to continue Thursday. 
AP/ Terry Kale, Karl Gude 


We'll take 20% off when you leave campus with a Hertz Penske truck rental! We've got everything you need to make moving easy -a modern, clean fleet ... free unlimited mileage on one way moves ... convenient coast-to-coast locations ... a free moving guide ... and ali the accessories to get the job done. For reservations, call the location below, or check the Yellow Pages for the Hertz Penske location nearest you. 
South Bend (North): 277-0144 South Bend (South): 291-1414 
Leaving campus? 
Rent a truck from Hertz Penslce and get a 20% discount on your one way truck rental. 



200/o Her~z 200/o
PENSKE
DISCOUNT DISCOUNT 
Truck Rental 
At'lorrlable, new, clean trvcb at con-nlent rental locations 
• 10'-24' trucks available  • Automatic transmission and  
• Free unlimited mileage  air conditioning  
on one way rentals  • 24-hour emergency road service  

Eflocu.r. Ap1111, 111e11 Good lllru Jutv 31,1IMIII 
A "one way rental" means your Hertz Penske truck is rented In one city and returned lo another 
L-----.:rt~Pen-= i:.:.se:•.:::•:a~':.!:=':...-----.J 

page 6 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, March 23, 1995 
Cosmonaut comes home after 439 days in space 


NEED A JOB 
that fits your busy schedule? 
Memorial Home Care offers an excellent opportunity to fit work around your class load! 0 We're seeking energetic, responsible, caring people to join our KidKare child care staff. 0 As a KidKare registry staff member, you'd be "on call" to fill staffing assignments for area families in need ofchild care services. 0 Evening or daytime, you accept assignments that meet your schedule! 0 Flexible hours. Great pay. 
Call273-2273 
to find out more! 

Memorial Home Care® 
17390 Dugdale Drive, South Bend, IN 46635 
O'laughlin Auditorium 
Friday, March 31 • 8:00 P.M. 
Saturday, April1 • 8:00 P.M. 
Sunday, April 2, • 2:30 P.M. 

Featuring choreography by Guest Artist Sue Cherry, Faculty and Students 
Artistic Direction by lndi Dieckgrofe • Performed by SMC Donee Workshop 
T1CKEI5: S6/ADUI.T5; S4/SENIOR CITIZENS &GROUPS; S3/SMC-ND COMMUNITY; S2/STUDENTS 
T1CKEI5 ON SAL£ AT THE SAINT MARY'S COllEGE BOX OFFICE, lOCATED IN O'lAUGHliN ~-~~~ 
AUIJIIORII.M, OPEN FROM 9· 5, MON. · FRI. DISCOVER, VISA, 
MASTERCARD ORDERS AT 219 / 284-4626 

said. He was quiet but beaming space. looks," said Andrei Markian, an as he arrived outside the clinic. Polyakov spoke with his fam­immunologist. "This can some­
His stint in space broke the ily once a week by phone from times be a tense time, but I 366-day record set by cosmo­aboard the Mir. He and his wife don't anticipate any problems." nauts Vladimir Titov and Musa have a daughter and two Vladimir Styopin, a family Manarov in December 1988. grandchildren. friend in Star City, said Polyakov has spent an unsur­"When I saw Dr. Polyakov, I Polyakov was probably longing passed total of 607 days in was amazed at how good he for a good fish dinner. 
Appearing at Saint Mary's College O'Laughlin Auditorium 7:00p.m. 
Ticket sales for SMCIND students ~... beg~n March 27 & 28 Ticket sales for the general public begin l.VIarch 29 Tickets on sale at O'Laughlin Box Office x4625 
$3.00 SMCIND Soudcn"'; S4.00 SMCJND Facuhy/Statr: $6.00 S""lor ClU>'"'"""' $H.OO c;-...,ncrnl Public 

Toppings Onions • Green Pepper • Beef Pepperoni • Mushrooms Black Olives • Ham Cheddar Cheese • Hot Peppers Sausage • Bacon • Pineapple 

r---------------------------------------------------------------------------,
: ~ 


1·:~.]1~
lt!lill . . ....~--..~~·-~--·--,.....'"-"-""~ _.,..,.~·---·~~
~------;;.·---~~-®-~r~::'_~:s_th_:~_o:~u.:_d~':r:.':.e~~':~l~e~~r~~~=::·2~:.S:u~~~=:.o::'::_ _____________ 
~~~------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
·:~-~-. 
~====C--~~~~-------------------------------------------------------------~ 
r.:-~:-.;--__ 
By JULIA RUBIN 
Associated Press 
STAR CITY, Russia 
After a record 439 straight days in space, Russia's star cos­monaut came home Wednesday looking remarkably fit, passing out handshakes and slapping high fives. 
Valery Polyakov, a 52-year­old physician, returned to Earth with two other cosmonauts and was flown to the cosmonaut training base outside Moscow. 
There they were whisked away for a week or two of med­ical tests and reconditioning ­but not before being feted out­side with flowers, cheers and the traditional bread and salt by about three dozen well-wish­ers and doctors. . 
"He looks wonderful," said Polyakov's tearful wife, Nelli, who had a cold and could only approach her husband wearing a surgical mask. Doctors said the cosmonaut is especially vul­nerable to germs after his marathon space flight. 
In 14 1/2 months on the Mir space station, Polyakov circled the Earth more than 7,000 times. 
He, cosmonaut Yelena Kon­dakova, and commander Alexander Viktorenko left be­hind a new three-person crew on the Mir, including U.S. as­tronaut Norman Thagard. Tha­gard aims to break the Ameri­cans' comparatively modest record of 84 straight days in space. 

Kondakova also set a record, for a woman in space: 170 days. 
The three cosmonauts touched down just after 7 a.m. Wednesday (11 p.m. EST Tues­day) on the steppes of Kaza­khstan in a Soyuz descent mod­ule. 
"It's Mother Earth," Polyakov said as he was helped out of the capsule, seated in a chair on the snowy steppe and wrapped in a fur coat, according to footage from the NTV network. 
The cosmonauts brought back more than 23 pounds of film and data from experiments on the Mir, the ITAR-Tass news agency said. After a brief exam­ination in Arkalyk, a Kazakh town 22 miles from where they landed, the cosmonauts were reported feeling fine. 
Polyakov needed no assis­tance climbing down from the plane near Star City, officials 

----~-­

Thursday, March 23, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
British troops withdraw U.S. criticizes Russia's actions 
from Northern Ireland 
By DONALD ROTHBERG Associa1ed Press 





~'QSY'i'~teih 
Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
Clocktower Square 51400 31 North 

(219)277-1291
South Bend, IN 46637 





Irtfpoowrta 
Jewelry, Accessories, Clothing, and much more! 
Guatemala•Peru•Mexico•Brazil Thailand•lndia•Ecuador 
Clearance Sale! Many New Items! 
31. of profits fund the education of 3 Guatemalan children 
(up to $1500 for 1995). Any help with donations welcomel 
LaFortune Room 108 Mar. 20-25 St. Mary's Leman Hall Mar. 27-31 10 a.m. -5 p.m. 


Power 

As Catholics, what are we asked to believe about the Bible? 
Lunches 
Stay tuned ... Luncheon discussions coming soon to a dining hall near you. 
sense." 

"It's important to maintain the relationship, manage the places where we differ," he said. 
The leaders of the world's seven largest industrial powers will meet in June in Halifax, Nova Scotia, and Russian Presi­dent Boris Yeltsin will attend. For several years, Russia has pressed for inclusion in the ex­clusive group. 
A senior administration offi­cial said after Christopher's remarks that "we're not plan­ning any immediate moves to downgrade Russia at Halifax." 
The impact would be more long term, said the official, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
Christopher said he and Rus­sian Foreign Minister Andrei Kozyrev would discuss the agenda for the meeting May 9 in Moscow between President Clinton and Yeltsin. He said the issues would include Russia's role in Europe and its relation­ship to NATO, as well as the fighting in Bosnia, nuclear arms reductions and how to move ahead with destruction of stocks of chemical and biologi­cal weapons. 
In addition to Chechnya, rela­tions between Moscow and Washington are strained over Russia's plan to sell nuclear power plants to Iran. 
Upon his arrival in Geneva, Kozyrev said it was important "that nobody makes any artifi­cial linkages or that anyone ex­ercises any political pressure." 
Kozyrev seemed to refer to threats in Congress to cut off aid to Russia if it goes ahead with the nuclear deal and doesn't halt its military action in Chechnya. 
Asked about Kozyrev's state­ment, Christopher said, "Of course, whatever a country does has some relevance to U.S. policy. I don't think we ought to permit this important relation­ship to become hostage to one issue or any one set of facts. 
"It's important that we pur­sue the dialogue that's been created." 
He called the current Russian offensive in Chechnya "a seri­ous error on their part. I think it is even quite foolhardy." 
He said he would press Kozyrev to move quickly to ful­fill Russia's commitment to al­low international observers into Chechnya. 
Christopher said he would try to persuade Kozyrev it was in Russia's interest not to provide nuclear technology to Iran, which borders Russia. 
"I don't come with any clever way out" for the Russians, he said. 
On Bosnia, Christopher said it was time tc reinvigorate the coalition of Western nations and Russia that has been trying to broker a peace agreement. 
PLACE 
433 Decio 114 O'Shaughn~ssy 
115 O'Shaughnessy 120 O'Shaughnessy 103 Crowley 
115 O'Shaughnessy 120 O'Shaughnessy 114 O'Shaughnessy 
115 O'Shaughnessy 120 O'Shaughnessy 
115 O'Shaughnessy 120 O'Shaughnessy 
115 O'Shaughnessy 120 0'Shaughnessy 
115 O'Shaughnessy 120 O'Shaughnessy 
Associa1ed Press 
BELFAST 
Britain sent 400 soldiers home on Wednesday and raised the level or talks with Northern Ireland's Protestant loyalists by sending a govern­ment minister to discuss get­ting rid of weapons. 
In the first significant troop withdrawal since an IRA cease­lire last September, members of the 5th Regiment Royal Artillery returned to their base in northern England. 
Last week, British officials said the troops had nothing to do while the cease-lire holds. 
Protestant paramilitary groups called their own cease­lire on Oct. 13, six weeks after the IRA halted its armed cam­paign to get the British out of Northern Ireland. 

The government said the Protestants agreed to "con­structive discussion" about weapons, and urged Sinn Fein to do the same. But a loyalist party leader indicated no new assurances were offered. 
Michael Ancram, Britain's second-ranking province offi­cial, was the first to meet with allies of the armed groups in the current peace process. 
Sinn Fein, the party allied with the Irish Republican Army, welcomed the British upgrade, although it has so far been barred from meeting British ministers. 
GENEVA 

Secretary of State Warren Christopher criticized Russia's military offensive in Chechnya in unusually strong terms Wednesday, calling it a "fool­hardy" action that has jeopar­dized Moscow's acceptance into international organizations. 
"They were on a strong climb upwards in acceptance in vari­ous international organiza­tions," Christopher told re­porters shortly before meeting with his Russian counterpart. "You can see examples of that slowing down." 
Christopher warned that "the evolvement of their participa­tion in G-7 will be affected by their conduct." He referred to the economic grouping of the world's seven richest democra­cies. 
But even while declaring that Russia was "paying a very high price internationally," Christo­pher said it was important to maintain a good working rela­tionship with the former Cold War enemy. 
"Some people would say we need to punish Russia when it does something we don't like by, for example, conditioning our assistance," he said, argu­ing that cutting aid for nuclear weapons destruction and priva­tizing industry "doesn't make 
Thursday, March 23, 1995

page 8 The Observer • NEWS 
Haitian officers wounded Extremists issue more 
By MICHAEL NORTON beaten to death by irate mobs. 

threats of terror, suicide 
Associated Press In February, an average of five killings occurred each week. 
By DONNA ABU-NASR are still in Gaza, the IsraelisPORT-AU-PRINCE A pair of gunmen shot the Associated Press haven't pulled out of the WestA lieutenant in Haiti's dis­former lieutenant twice in the Bank," Falouji said. "So whybanded army became the latest head as he left a cement depot GAZACITY should Hamas stop its military
victim of the Haitian capital's that he owns, then escaped in a spiraling crime wave Wednes­waiting car, the official Haitian 
A Muslim extremist leader activities?" threatened Wednesday to carry Palestinian police rounded up
day when gunmen killed him news agency reported. 
The multinational force, out more suicide attacks inside 20 Hamas activists Wednesdayaround the corner from U.N. 
military headquarters. based around the corner from Israel, aday after two militants but officials would not say On Tuesday, two off-duty po­the site of the attack, took 25 confessed plans to blow up an whether the detentions were explosives-laden truck. linked to the planned attack. 
lice officers were wounded in minutes to arrive on the scene, separate shootings. the private Radio Metropole re­Israeli police discovered the Israel responded to the abort­truck rigged with more than ed attack by barring all Gaza
Crime has been on the rise ported. 
200 pounds of explosives late vehicles from Israel. 
since a U.S.-led multinational On Tuesday, two unarmed force disarmed and dismantled and off-duty interim police offi­Monday after becoming suspi­Several dozen angry Gaza cious of its Gaza Strip license farmers hurled tomatoes, cu­
the Haitian army and police to cers were shot and wounded in plates. cumbers and other produce
pave the way for President separate attacks. 
Two members of the militant Wednesday near the Erez mili­Jean-Bertrand Aristide's return Maj. Max Hilaire, 37, was in tary checkpoint to protest the
from exile Oct. 15. serious condition after being Hamas movement told inter­rogators Tuesday they were restrictions, which prevent
An ill-trained, mostly un­shot in the back and abdomen 
planning a suicide attack in them from exporting their pro­armed interim pojice force of in a Port-au-Prince suburb by Beersheba in southern Israel. duce to Israel.
3,000 officers has stepped in two men on motorcycles who Vasser Arafat was quoted by Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak until a new police force can be demanded his wallet, Radio Israel radio Wednesday as Rabin said Wednesday that Is­trained and has been over­Signal FM said. 
raeli settlers are "ideal targets

whelmed trying to maintain or­Cpl. Beauville Ocean was shot warning there would be a 
"revolt of the starved" if re­for terror" because they live intwice near the downtown police 
der. Twenty-five people were station, a police spokesman strictions barring Palestinians settlements that are scattered from their jobs in Israel are not throughout the West Bank. 
killed last week, including 10 said Wednesday. AP 
lifted. Jewish settler leaders on
suspected thieves who were 

Another warning came from Wednesday called for an insur­Hamas spokesman Emad rection to topple the Rabin gov­
Celebrate a friend's birthday with 
Falouji, who said more suicide ernment. attacks were in the works. "We cannot prevent hermeti­"[Palestinian) prisoners are cally any terror act," Rabin re­

a special Observer ad. 
still in jail, the [Jewish) settlers sponded. 


CAMPUS MINISTRY ••• 
•••CONSIDERATIONS 
WHAT'S THE FUTURE OF THIS RELATIONSHIP? 
Frequently couples come into the Campus Ministry Office hoping for a compatibility test to see if they are truly meant for each other or an article on relationships that they might read or advice on what they should do now that they are interviewing for jobs that might separate them. 
They feel that their relationship is special, but they just aren't sure of the next step. Should they look for jobs in the same city or should they test the relationship with some distance? Should they get engaged now or should they work for a year or two first and establish some career goals? 
Campus Ministry has offered programs for engaged couples for many years, but a program for the engaged is not appropriate for a couple still exploring their relationship -the decision is not yet made; and the decision might eventually be to not continue the relationship. 
There are many issues and questions facing couples in significant relationships: 
-how can we determine ifwe're really ready for marriage? 
-should we try to find jobs, or pick graduate schools, that 
are in the same city? 
-how will a long distance relationship affect us? 
-how can you express your true feelings without pressuring 
for commitment? 

-how will the demands of career/graduate school affect our 
relationship? 

-how might differences in our families of origin affect our 
relationship? 

-how can we communicate better? 
What's the Future of this Relationship? -a program which 
campus Ministry offers, includes a presentation on the stages of 
relationships and one on decision-making. There is also a 
marriage expectations quiz, but no compatibility test! There will 
be time for responding to questions individually and time for 
discussing answers with one's partner. A discussion period and a folder of articles for additional information and reflection are also offered. 
Ifyou are in a significant relationship and are asking questions similar to those mentioned above, perhaps you would like to attend this semester's program. 
"What's the Future of This Relationship?" will take place on Sunday, April2, from 1:00-5:00 p.m. Although there is no charge for this program, pre-registration is required. Registration forms can be obtained in both Campus Ministry Offices (Library Concourse and Badin Hall). Registration deadline is March 30. Ifyou have any questions, please call Chris Etzel or Sylvia or John Dillon, 631-5242. 
Chris Etze 

FOURTH SUNDAY OF LENT LAETARE SUNDAY 
VIGIL MASS FOR THE FEAST OF THE ANNUNCIATION Friday-March 24-5:15p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
STATIONS OF THE CROSS Fridays during the Season of Lent 7:15p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica 
Sat. Mar. 25 5:00 p.m. Rev. David Garrick, C.S.C. Sun. Mar. 26 10:00 a.m. Rev. Daniel Jenky, C. S.C. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. Richard Warner, C.S.C. 


-------~------------­
Thursday, March 23, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 9 




Welfare bill causes battle in House 
By JENNIFER DIXON 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Shouting erupted in the House on Wednesday as Democrats bitterly accused majority Republicans of trying to ram through a mean-spirited welfare overhaul bill, in the harshest floor fight yet over the GOP's "Contract With Amer­ica." 
Democrats accused the GOP of being cruel to children and pillaging welfare programs to pay for a tax cut for the privi­leged. They decried GOP tactics in pushing the far-reaching bill toward enactment. The bill shrinks welfare spending by $66 billion. 
Anti-abortion Hepublicans and Democrats tried to derail the bill earlier in the day, but lost by a handful of votes. 217­211. 
Soon after, tempers boiled over as Republicans grouped together 11 amendments, in­cluding one involving abortion, and strictly scaled back the de­bate. 
"Will you get these highly paid members to sit down and shut up? You all sit down and shut up. Sit down and shut up," Rep. Sam Gibbons, D-Fla, roared at the presiding officer. 
.Rep. Jim McCrery, R-La., in­terrupted, asking, "Is petulance 

~<mlmq~ nm1\Vllil~~R 
What: GENDER RELATIONS RETRhAT Who! Notre Dame Men and Women 
When: Saturday March 25, 1995 (10:30am-3:30pm) Where: Center for Social Concerns 
Goal: To improve communication between males and females at Notre Dame 
through open and informative discussion. 
TO REGISTER: Sign up at the Women's Resource Center, in person, or by phone at 631-9028 or call Merrie at 634-1413. The Women's Resource Center is located on the 2nd floor of LaFortune, Student Government Office. 
Sponsored by: The Women's Resource Center Student Government 
Amnesty International 

Can We Talk? 


a proper form of behavior for a member of Congress?" 
"I will be as petulant as I want to be," Gibbons boomed back, then complained that the legislation is mean to children. Republicans booed. 
"Boo if you want to, make asses out of yourselves if you want to.... Let 'em boo, Mr. Speaker," said Gibbons. 
Democrats and some Repub­licans complained that House leaders had gagged debate on the sweeping bill, by refusing to consider amendments that would have tempered restric­tions on aid to poor women and children. 
"I am deeply concerned that in the otherwise laudable drive to reduce illegitimacy and de­pendency, we are poised to en­act legislation that is likely to increase the number of abor­tions performed ... while also making children more impover­ished," warned Rep. Chris Smith, R-NJ. 
The GOP's bill bars states from increasing the cash bene­fits of women on welfare who have additional children. It also denies cash welfare to unmar­ried teen-age mothers and their children and rewards states that reduce out-of-wedlock births. 
Critics say the formula in the bill to determine whether states have succeeded in reducing unwed births, known as the "illegitimacy ratio," is actually a bounty on abortions. 
Two of the amendments to be considered this week would al­low states to provide vouchers for the purchase of diapers and other necessities to women af­fected by the restrictions on cash aid, a move designed to appease the anti-abortion forces. 
But House leaders angered those Republicans when they rejected amendments that would have scrapped the illegit­imacy ratio and allowed the parents of teen-age mothers who live at home to receive cash assistance to help with caring for the children. 
''I'm embarrassed today to stand here and admit that our party that talks about family values is saying we don't value keeping the family together be­cause in fact there is no incen­tive ... to stay in the home, stay in your family," said Rep. Jim Bunn of Oregon, another anti­abortion Republican. 
Roman Catholic bishops and the National Right to Life Com­mittee also opposed the bill on the grounds that it could lead to an increase in abortion. 
The legislation collapses dozens of anti-poverty pro­grams, including school lunches and Aid to Families with Dependent Children, and gives the responsibility for welfare to the states. 
Adults would be required to work after two years on welfare and all families would be kicked ofT the rolls after five. 
The bill also repeals the gov­ernment's guarantee to provide cash benefits, school lunches, and foster care support to any needy child. 
It pares spending on food stamps and denies cash and Medicaid to as many as 2.2 mil­lion legal immigrants. 
House Minority Leader Dick Gephardt of Missouri said that the GOP is using its welfare re­form plan to finance tax cuts for the rich and that it does lit­tle to help recipients move into the work force. 
"How can people lift them­selves up by their bootstraps if the Republicans are busy taking away their boots?" Gephardt said. 
Rep. William Clay, D-Mo., de­rided GOP arguments that the legislation would help the poor escape welfare. 
"Hitler had a minister of pro­paganda that said tell a lie, tell a big lie, tell it often enough and it will become the truth," said Clay. "Yes, they get upset because they're telling the biggest lie in the world that they're going to help poor chil­dren, that they're going to help pregnant mothers.... What's next -castration, steriliza­tion?" 
Welfare policy to change 
8y RAJU CHEBIUM 
Ass«iau:d Preas 
MIAMI 
For seven years, Rosa Dominguez has lived in the United States as a legal resi­dent. She hasn't felt the need to become a citizen -until now. 
She's learning English and taking citizenship classes, but not because of some new­found affection for the United States. She's afraid the Republicans on Capitol Hill will take away her welfare benefits. 
Ms. Dominguez is one of thousands of green-card hold· ers in Miami and across the nation rushing to apply for citizenship as Congress debates the Republican wel~ fare-reform package. 
A provision in the legisla· tion. expected to pass the House this week, would elimi­nate Medicaid, Supplemental Security Income (SSI_. Aid to Families With Dependent Children and food stamps to most legal alien residents. 
Ms; Dominguez. a 70-year· old Cuban native, has no fa.mi· ly .in Miami and lives on the $458 in Supplementary Security Income and $17 in food stamps she gets each month. 
"lf the government cuts the SSI and food stamps, I'll be homeless," Ms. Dominguez said tearfully in Spanish, min· utes after a class in prepara~ tion for the citizenship test. 
An estimated 2.2 million legal alien residents nation­wide would be affected by the reforms, according to the Health and Human Services Department. The only green­card holders who would not be affected are those over 75 who have lived in the United States for at least five years. politlcal refugees and U.S. vet­erans. 
Supporters of the measure, such as Rep. E. Clay Shaw, R· Fla., question whether U.S. taxpayers should be support­ing immigrants who are not allowed to vote and can't run for most elective offices. 
"If you want to come to this .country and you want to enjoyall its freedoms, it's not unfair to ask you to become citi· zens," said Scott Brenner, Shaw's spokesman. "You didn't come to this country to go on welfare." · 
The Federation for American Immigration Reform, based in Washington, is lobbying hard for the mea· sure. 
"Immigrants today are bringing their elderly parents, brothers and sisters, whatev­er, and are assimilating Into welfare," said Dan Stein, the federation's executive direc­tor. "The longer they're here, the more likely they are to go on welfare.... Why should immigration become a free lunch?" 
Rosa Rosales, state director for the Texas League of United Latin American Citizens, contends the GOP proposal grew from racism. 
"When people talk about immigrants, they synony­mously mean Mexicans and other Latinos," Ms. Rosales said•. "They don't want us to stay here permanently, but they want to use our cheap labor.'' 

-----~--~----------------------------------------­


VIEWPOINT 
page 10 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219} 631-7471 SAINT MAR¥'5 OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucas Managing Editor Business Manager Suzanne Fry Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Pot!er Viewpoint Editor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor......................... Michael Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor..................... Krista A. Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor.................................. Rob Finch Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Saint Mary's Editor ............•....... Patti Carson Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the U niversiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through lettets is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor /Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer. Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
• SOCIETY WHIRl 


Could O.J. possibly be any guiltier? 
Believe it or not: the events of the last few weeks -I'm sure I don't need to bother you with the details -robbed your favorite columnist of some of his trademark egoism, the swaggering self-regard which makes each of my columns such a popular mixture of pathos and pathology. Still, no need to worry -next week I plan to publish a piece on "The Many Moods of Josh Ozersky," complete with the usual freakish de­tails and baroque expressions. In the meantime, I'm just building myself back 
up again. Now where's that syringe of testosterone? 
In the meantime, I have three more topics I wish to essay. Last week I hit three 

Josh 
pop-culture topics; this week, submitted for your approval, are three more. 


Ozersky
1. Could He Be Any Guiltier? You know who I mean. Ugh, he's so guilty. 

To listen to his lawyers and their squalid, shameless antics! Could you despise lawyers any more? Dershowitz, with his squeaky voice and smug expression; the pompous, preening Shapiro, with those prepos­terous eyebrows and orotund speeches; smarmy, vulgar Johnnie Cochrane (who hires a lawyer named Johnnie?); and, worst of all, the boorish, blustering F. Lee Bailey, and his idiotic cross­examination of Mark Fuhrman. In case you haven't been watching, the defense, clutching at straws, is trying to persuade the jury that Mark 
Fuhrman, the detective who found the infamous 
"bloody glove;" is an evil genius dedicated to framing the Moor of Brentwood. What a joke! 
Can the jury actually be so stupid as to let O.J. walk? For me, it wasn't even the mountain of evidence (the 911 tapes, the pictures of the beat­en wife, the lack of any other suspect, the blood, etc. etc.) as much as O.J. himself, with his sculpt­ed and impassive face. He just looks so guilty. He looks as guilty as the Menendez brothers, as guilty as Klaus Von Bulow. Guiltier! They ought to just offer him clemency if he completes a secret mission, like the one the Army offered Jim Brown in The Dirty Dozen. Maybe they have. Who knows? Boy, is he guilty though. 
2. Just Call Me Dirk Sunbeam. I know every­one had a fine time during the Spring Break. Observer "Love Goddess" Kim Massman actually w_ent to Graceland, not that that does me any good. Another friend of mine went to Memphis, and actually gave me a mug. A mug! Of all the things you could bring somebody from Memphis! How about some jerky treats? That's the sort of thing they excel in. 
But I'm not jealous. I went back to my ances­tral haunts, the sandy beaches of sunny Ventnor, 
N.J. The negative ions, the crashing waves, the clank of empty beer cans hitting the bulkhead. The dying turtles glinting in the morning sun. 
You ought to just call me 
no, where I invite retirees out for a romantic walk, and then strangle them under the boardwalk for their green stamps. Then back to South Bend again. 
3. Snack Foods of the Future. I stopped in the Amoco Station the other day, and I realized that it's not for nothing that I came to the Midwest. I saw something so disgusting that it elevated my mood for a week. Jerky chew! Yes, they now have shredded beef jerky in a little can, so that Michiana lows can put something even more vile than "chaw" into their precancerous gums. It got me to thinking. As packaging technology improves, isn't it possible that we will be able to have better snack foods? 
Think of a little foil bag which, instead of can­dies, contains a dozen hot salty tater tots? Or a little candy bar made, not of chocolate, but of crisp rectangular grilled-cheese sandwich sec­tions? Or a boxed Entenmann bacon loaf? The possibilities multiply: Liver Newtons. Pepperoni­os breakfast cereal. Toothpaste tubes full of warm, soft-scrambled eggs. A genetically engi­neered man whose fmgernail clippings taste like Werther's Originals. A walking sausage. A chicken whose whole body is skin! 
Damn it! Where's that testosterone syringe? 
Josh Ozersky is a graduate student in history. He is available over e-mail at: joshua.a.ozer­sky.l@nd.edu 


University decision right, policy wrong 
Dear Editor: 

I am writing to express my concern about the decision of the administration of the University of Notre Dame to forbid the use of university property for meetings of the Gays and Lesbians of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's group. 
While I don't disagree with the university's decision to only allow recognized groups to use the university facilities, I believe that the group should be recognized. The University is short sight­ed at best and, at worse, instrumental in creating and sustaining an atmosphere of hate and tension between students when they insist on these decisions. 
The pressures gay and lesbian college students deal with on a daily basis added to adolescent and academic issues can be over­whelming indeed! One is hard pressed to understand why the uni­versity would add to these pressures and tensions with such mean spirited decisions. 
It is time for the university to stand tall, reverse their decision, and recognize the group as a bona fide student group. 
As a 1967 graduate of Saint Mary's College, I continue to con­tribute to my community. I serve on a myriad of boards and am still working in the human services field with children and the elderly . For twenty five years I have been a clinician and an agency administrator. My years at St. Mary's were good ones. 
The college community recognized me in 1967 as a leader by electing me as student body president and by naming me as the recipient of the Lumen Christi award. 
None of the contributions I made in college or in the years since have been diminished by the fact that I am a lesbian. I am dimin­ished only by the bigotry and hate and prejudice of those who can­not tolerate difference. The University needs to lead by example, not by empty, useless words. They should make a difference and support their students whether they are male or female, students of color, lesbian or gay... 
SANDRA ALBRIGHT Sainr Mary's Class of'67 

Dirk Sunbeam. A veritable bronze god. I metamor­phose when I return to the beach: my abs begin to ripple, my hair turns short and blonde, I get an urge to throw frisbees at dogs, the whole business. I wear a little speedo tinkle suit; then it's out to the glam­orous "Trash Mahal'' casi­
GARRY TRUDEAU
• Dm.lNesauRY 



• QUOTE Of THE DAY 
"Being No. 1 is the only 
thing the press writes about. If you're No. 1, you're the greatest in the world. If you're No. 2, you're a bit of a loser." 
-Chris Evert 


------~----------··--··--·---~··--~-----. 


VIEWPOINT
Thursday, March 23, 1995 page-11 

Different lives pleasing God in different ways 
Dear Editor: 

I was privileged to obtain a copy of Viewpoint dated Feb. 23, 1995. My particular interest has to do with the decision made by the Notre DamH Administration of preventing the Gay and Lesbian student group from meeting in the University Counseling Center. . I am truly amazed that a Catholic institute that was founded on the teachings of Jesus Christ would deny people who have been honest about their humanistic feelings being treated as if they were not the childnm of God. Has the administration of Notre Dame rejected Our Lord's plea that we should serve one another with the same love he has given us. What you have done is to take on the in judging people for what they stand for or what they represent. And isn't it the same studenlc:; who present you with their tuition which in most cases is from the hard work of their parents or even the students themselves. If you believe what they do is wrong then how could you in con­science take their money, why not just turn them away. I doubt if you would do that. However the issue is simply that as far as I can read into this tr·avesty of justice is that Notre Dame has committed a grevi~ ous offense against honest people who just want to be loved and respeeted as others are. 
Beenuse your gay eommunity at Notre Dame have made themselves known and honest about their lives. I wonder if you would conduct a survey of students at Notre Dame to inquire about their commitment to God inasmuch as keeping the 10 commandments ... adultery, for­nication, stealing, eovet their neighbor, honor their fathers and moth· ers... and so on. !low then would the Administration of Notre Dame handle these people? Perhaps my question would be, "have you denied those who have had sex outside of wedlock permission to use the University Counseling Center?" If you are the Catholic institute founded under the prindples of' Jesus Christ, then you are obliged to treat those who have broken the 10 commandments as you have the gay and lesbian student groups. 
· Ask Uwse who were behind this seheme to degrade the gays and lesbians of Notre Dame if they were willing to cast the first stone. I need not tell you where I got that idea! If one is to call themselves a Christian, then they must be Christlike ... then ask yourselves .... "would Christ deny them the use of the University Counseling Center" .. .! doubt it very much. I could only ask you all to be like our wonderful Jesus Christ and restore dignity to these students who only want to lead lives that they feel God has given them. No one tells you how to live your life. not even God, because He has given you the great gift of l'ree-will that you do with your life that would please Him. In their hearts these gays lesbians please their God. I know they do! 
JOSEPH MONACO 
Scotch Plains, New Jersey 

Other groups run counter to church 
Dear Editor: AFROTC Management Club 
It seems that the time has AFROTC Drill Team Marketing Club come to purify Notre Dame. Army ROTC MBA Association Recently, several learned and NROTC Color Guard MBA Marketing Association unlearned people have taken NROTC Rifle/Pistol Team etc... aim at Notre Dame students NROTC Drill Team Good justification is given who are homosexuals Ranger Challenge Club for accepting all of these stu­because their existence would Semper Fidelis Society dent organizations. Some seem to be contrary to the Society of Military Catholics would take issue teachings of the Catholic Engineers with a lot of these organiza­Church, America, mom, apple Trident Naval Society tions. However, there was a pie, the military-industrial Ba'Ha'i time when some Catholics complex, the existence of God Baptist Student Union professed that Galileo was a and gravity. Muslim Student Association heretic for suggesting that the 
So, what's next on the hit College Democrats earth revolves around the list? Let's examine the list of College Hepublicans sun. Notre Dame clubs whose mis­Engineering clubs whose sions could be seen as con­members make war materials TOM MATZZIE trary to the teachings of the Finance Club Sophomore Catholic church: Investment Club Grac~ Hall 
~--------~~77----~----~~,-~1 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dear Editor: 
"...!am not a communist ! My political ideology is very clear. I, before anything else, am here for the needs of my coun­try." 
Fidel Castro Bohemia April 1959 
With the same deceit that Fidel fooled the Cuban Nation and the rest of the world in 1959, Professor Alberto Prieto Hozos, a visiting faculty fellow from the University of Havana, attempted to deeeive a roomful of people at the llesburgh Center on March 9 of this year in his lecture Transitions in Cuba. 
Fidel baek then was hiding behind a shield of lies. and on the day of his lec­ture. Professor Prieto was shielded by academic decorum (even though he did not follow an academic format in his presentation, speaking only of his per­spective of the argument). This letter is simply to provide all of those in atten­dance with the truth or the "other side" of the Cuban situation. 
'Economic conditions will 
continue to deteriorate; hunger and epidemics will ensue in the tropical squalor; and efforts to flee the island will continue as a direct result of the totalitarian repression and systematic violation of basic human rights.' 
Being a first generation Cuban­Ameriean and feeling a deep sense of patriotism for both this eountry and the one my parents left behind. 
I was repulsed by Professor Prieto's stereotyping of the exiled community's desire to "return (to Cuba) and take away the homes. property, and statuses" from the Cubans presently enduring Fidel's oppression. Speaking for myself, my family, and my friends, there is noth­ing that we would like to see more than a peaceful transition to democracy in the island nation as it breaks away from Fidel's shackles. 

As for the claim that the Catholic Church is now welcomed in Cuba, this just doesn't correlate with the informa­tion I am presently receiving from very reliable sources. 
Any believer of religion faces continu­ous discrimination at school and at work. This person, in fact, becomes a second or third rate citizen. In turn, influential careers will be forbidden or a promotion at work will be denied to the religious individual. 
A very recent example of Fidel's aceeptance of religion is the violent action taken against helpless women gathered in the churches of Havana to pray for political prisoners. Maybe this incident slipped Professor Prieto's mind. 
Another issue which was deceptively presented was the "achievements" of the revolution, which are nowhere to be seen. The current epidemics, malnu­trition, and lack of hygiene in hospitals, streets, and households are evidence that the Cuban revolution, in and of itself, has been incapable of sustaining its "revolutionary achievements." 
Lastly, agricultural reform is under­way but it is not as far-reaching as Pro­fessor Prieto and other Fidel apologists claim. 
Peter Young, Director of the UK's Adam Smith Institute, was told in an interview with Finance Minister Jose Hodriguez that "by the end of this year, 80 percent of agricultural land will be under the control of cooperatives." 
However, Young clarifies the state-. ment by writing that "those cooperatives do not own the land but are temporary enslaved to work it. 
They must first supply their state 
----. 
quota at below rock-bottom prices ­accounting for at least 80 percent of their production -before they can sell excess products in the private markets. Then, any extra money goes not to the individual farmer but back to the coop­erative" (WSJ, 3 March 1995: All). 
The future is very clear for the Cuban Nation: economic conditions will con­tinue to deteriorate; hunger and epi­demics will ensue in the tropical squalor; and efforts to flee the island will continue as a direct result of the totalitarian repression and ·systematic violation of basic human rights. 
Yet, amidst this chaotic situation, Fidel, who had previously confiscated all foreign investments, now seeks such investors to help him preserve his power, a consideration that is perhaps the uppermost in his outlook. 
FRANCISCO ]AVIER CANTERO, JR. Graduale S1uden1 
----------------------~------------------------­



ACCENT 
page 12 Thursday, March 23, 1995 

I. Collective Soul -Collective Soul 
2. 
Annie Lennox -Medusa 

3. 
Dave Matthews Band -Under the Table and Dreaming 

4. 
2Pac -Me Against the World 

5. 
Shaw blades -Hallucination 

6. 
Hootie and the Blowfish -Cracked Rear View 

7. 
Bruce Springsteen -Greatest Hits 

8. 
Tom Petty -Wildflowers 

9. 
Eagles-Hell Freezes Over I 0. Cranberries -No Need to Argue 


I I. Matthew Sweet -I00% Fun 
12. 
Eric Clapton -Cream of Clapton 

13. 
Rusted Root-When I Woke 

14. 
Sheryl Crow -Tuesday Night Music Club 

15. 
Oasis -Definitely Maybe 

16. 
Van Halen -Balance 

17. 
Black Crowes -Amorica 

18. 
Nine Inch Nails -The Downward Spiral 

19. 
Pulp Fiction Soundtrack 

20. 
John Lee Hooker -Chill Out 


The Top 20 is compiled from Tracks sales records, week ending March 19th. 

TOP 20 CUTS 

I. Quicksand -"Delusional" 
2. 
PJ Harvey -"Down By The Water" 

3. 
Stone Roses-"Love Spreads" 

4. 
Throwing Muses -"Bright Yellow Gun" 

5. 
Belly -"Now They'll Sleep" 

6. 
Bush -"Everything Zen" 

7. 
Bettie Serveert-"Ray, Ray, Rain 

8. 
Matthew Sweet -"Sick of Myself" 

9. 
Live -"Lightning Crashes" I 0. Wax -"California" 


I I. Oasis -"Live Forever" 
12. 
Jayhawks -"Blue" 

13. 
Ass Ponys -"Little Bastard" 

14. 
Fossil -"Moon" 

15. 
Simple Minds -"She's a River" 

16. 
Elsatica -"Connection" 

17. 
Dink -"Green Mind" 

18. 
Portishead -"Sour Times" 

19. 
Siouxsie and the Banshees -"0 Baby" 

20. 
Rage Against the Machine -"Year o the Boomerang" 


Source/ College Music Journal, College Cuts 
-----------------------------------~----~­
cerning Widespread Panic, Jackopierce is not to be overlooked. "This is not one of those shows where everyone is going to see the main act and no one has heard of the opening act. I think people who go only for Widespread will come out Jackopierce fans as well. The same goes for people who are going in to the concert as Jackopierce fans," said Brian Hill. 
Grant Blachy, a Grace Hall junior agreed. "Many people are going to the show for Jackopierce more than Widespread Panic. They're one of the most underrated and up-and­coming bands in today's music world. The music presented by Jack and Cary (the band members) deeply complements their insightful lyrics." 
Jack O'Neill and Cary Pierce form the acoustic duo that is Jackopierce. They met about four years ago at SMU in the theater department. The two jammed together in Cary's room one night and were so happy with the results that they decided to try their hand in the music game. 
"Cary was always determined," O'Neill recalled. "When we first started playing he said, 'Look, this is what I want to do with my life. Are you in?' And I said 'I guess I am."' T Bone Burnett, who has also worked with Los Lobos and Counting Crows, produced Jackopierce's major label debut, Bringing on the Weather, for A & M Records. 
"There was a lot of love in the stu­dio. T Bone's a really good friend, a soulmate. So is his wife Sam Phillips," said Pierce. "When we finally broke up the project we were almost in tears. It felt like a family breaking up." 
Featured on the album, along with Jackopierce's signature acoustic gui­tar melodies, are a vibrant if noncha­lant drum section, splashes of organ, and timely taps on the tambourine. O'Neill and Pierce play off each other magically, anticipating each other's moves in a way that cannot be achieved only through practice. 
Do not be fooled by the description of their music, however. A Jackopierce concert is always going to be a rocking, fast-paced good time. In O'Neill's words, "People come to our shows, dance, and go nuts. They tell us that they're amazed about how much energy and sounds come out of two guys with two guitars." 
"The way we look at it is we're just a couple of guys who write songs. We're not trying to be folk or rock or grunge. We're just playing the songs in the most simple, straightforward way we can. We've got to be on top of the game when it's just the two of us." 
Rob Adams' Music Features appear every Thursday. 
• Son ScAlE SmlA 
Ain't 
By ROB ADAMS 
Accent Music Critic 
"If Widespread Panic isn't 'Notre Dame,' I don't know what band is," said Jim Jadwisiak, an off-campus junior. Although a fitting statement to describe how hot the current grassroots revival currently is here in the midwest, that statement rings truer than it might first appear. 
Widespread Panic, the Athens, Georgia band which has played over 200 live shows e&-ch year of the band's eight-year career, will be playing Notre Dame tonight at 8:00 
p.m. at the Stepan Center-by their choice. The band has never played here before and their agent called Notre Dame back in January in the hopes that he could set up a concert. 
"Their agent, Brian Hill, called me before the semester began," said Rob Laux, Program Coordinator for Student Activities. "He didn't beat around the bush at all. He told me, 'Widespread Panic will be in your area in the spring and I can set up a date with you on March 23.' Luckily for him, a different concert for about that time had just fallen through so I began negotiations with him." 
Brian Hill explained why he was marketing his band to play at Notre Dame. "The focus of this spring tour was on colleges and Widespread is well aware of what's going on. Indiana is a great part of the country for grassroots music so we honed in on Notre Dame." 
But the six members of 
Widespread Panic are not traveling 
alone. Their fusion of southern boo­
gie and psychedelia will be joined by 
the sweet acoustic sounds and mar­
velous vocal harmonies of opening 
act Jackopierce. 
"Jackopierce is really one of these 
self-promoted success stories," said 
Chris Hughes, who represents the 
band at A & M Records in Chicago. 
"They live to tour and they've built 
up a really big following in less than 
a year. Here in Chicago, they went 
from playing venues of 200 to venues 
of 2000. Word of mouth, which has 
spread mainly throughout colleges, 
has brought them the success they 
have today.'' 
Widespread Panic released Ain't 
Life Grand, their fourth album, in 
October of last year. Steadily climb­
ing the Album-Oriented Rock, 
Modern Rock, and Adult Album 
Alternative charts is "Can't Get 
High," the current single off the 
album. "Can't Get High" also fea­
tures a video directed by Ken Fox, 
who has directed videos for Toad the 
Wet Sprocket, Collective Soul, and 
Blues Traveler. The song features 
an ice-cold and tight rhythm section, 
John Bell's scratchy vocals, and a 
flowing, meandering bass groove. 
The members of Widespread 


Life Grand? 
Panic consider Ain't Life Grand to be their best album to date. "I think we've really accomplished something with this album," said David Schools. "It's probably going to be hard to top this one." 
"Fishwater," a jangling New Orleans stomp of a song in which singer and guitarist Bell sounds like an energized Joe Cocker, fresh after a year of aerobic training, provides another highlight on the album. '"Fishwater' was born on the stage," said Bell, "we were playing this jam and I came up with some words.'' 
The members of Widespread 
'This is not one of those 
shows where every­one is going to see the main act and no one has heard of the opening act. I think people who go only for Widespread will come out Jackopierce fans as well.' 
Brian Hill 
Panic are not the only people who are excited that they are coming to Notre Dame tonight. "They're the next Allman Brothers," said Tom Mattzie, a Grace Hall sophomore. "I hope Notre Dame students realize how lucky they are to have Widespread coming here. It's just great music." 
"Widespread Panic delivers one of the best live shows I've ever seen," commented Meggan Awe, Holy Cross Hall junior. "Just when you think they can't take their music any high­er, they do. They reach a new peak with each song they play.'' 
Despite the enthusiasm con-


---~-----------~---~--------------------------------~------------------------~------· 
Thursday, March 23, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
•NBA 
Miller on fire as Pacers rally to top Clippers 
Associated Press nine of their free throws. Blaylock did pick up the one game ahead of Denver in the separated his right shoulder in Rik Smits added 19 points steal he needed to reach 1,000 hunt for the last playoff spot in a motorcycle accident, were 
Heggie Miller scored 36 and a team-high 11 rebounds in his career. It came in his the West. outrebounded 62-41 but still points Wednesday night as the for the Pacers, while Byron 421st game, fourth fastest in Mitch Richmond scored 19, won for the 15th time in 17 
Indiana Pacers survived a 
Scott added 13 off the bench. the league. Brian Grant had 18 and Olden games. Rodman is the league'sClippers rally in the game's fi­Loy Vaught had 22 points and Miami led for the last 2 1/2 Polynice 17 for the Kings. leading rebounder, averagingnal two minutes for a 107-103 
10 rebounds for Los Angeles. quarters after Matt Geiger's Bobby Phills scored 16 and 17.4 a game.
victory over Los Angeles. 
layup with 6:18 left in the first Michael Cage had 14 rebounds The Nets dropped their fourth Indiana won its fourth in a Heat 98, Hawks 84 half put the Heat ahead to stay for Cleveland. straight and fifth in the last six 
row at home and beat the 
35-34. The Kings ran off 10 straight to fall into a tie with Milwaukee Clippers for the fifth time in a Kevin Willis had 24 points The Heat led 45-39 at the points to take a 22-12 lead with for the final Eastern Conference row. The Clippers fell to 3-31 
and 18 rebounds Wednesday half, stretched it to 61-49 on three minutes left in the first playoff spot. 
on the road and lost their 
night, leading the Miami Heat Owens' 17 -footer with 3:45 left quarter before Price, just in the San Antonio scored 15 of the fourth straight game overall. 
past the Hawks 98-84 for their in the third. The Hawks never game, passed to Tyrone Hill for first 19 points in the fourth 
Former Pacer Pooh 
lirst regular-season victory in got closer than 7 points the rest a dunk. Danny Ferry followed quarter, including four each byHichardson paced Los Angeles Atlanta. of the way. with the first of the Cavs' 3-Avery Johnson and Chuck with 24 points, including a key The Heat, which did win a pointers, and by the end of the Person to open a 91-75 lead 3-pointer with 12 seconds re­playoff game in Atlanta last Cavaliers 101, Kings 89 quarter they trailed by only with six minutes to play.
maining that brought the 
season, were 0-12 in The Omni four. J.R. Reid finished with 16 Clippers within live. 
in regular-season play before Mark Price scored 23 points A 13-2 flurry, started by Chris points, Johnson added 14, Sean 
Following an Indiana 
dominating a Hawks team that and made four of Cleveland's Mills' 3-pointer, put Cleveland Elliott had 13 and Person added turnover, Michael Smith was shot just 38 percent. 11 3-pointers Wednesday night ahead to stay in the second 11 for San Antonio, which shot fouled by Antonio Davis while It was the third victory in four as the Cavaliers beat the quarter. They led 52-43 at half­53 percent from the field. 
attempting a 3-pointer with 7.2 
games for the Heat. Atlanta Sacramento Kings 101-89. time, 79-70 after three quar­The Nets, who shot just 32 seconds left. Smith connected 
was denied its bid to go two The 11 3-pointers tied a fran­ters, and they opened the percent, got 21 from Armon on all three foul shots, scoring games over .500 for the first chise record set last November fourth quarter with an 8-0 run Gilliam, but Derrick Coleman his only points of the game and 
time this season, dropping to against Golden State. -featuring consecutive 3's by was limited to 10 points before dosing the gap to 105-103. 
33-33. Price, still coming off the Tony Campbell and Price -fouling out midway through the Former Clipper Mark Jackson Reserve Tyrone Corbin led bench and wearing a brace on that ended all doubt. fourth quarter, and Kennyhit a pair of free throws with the Hawks with a season-high the right wrist he broke in Anderson scored just 7 points. 
4.8 seconds to play to secure 
21 points and Steve Smith and January, was 8-of-10 from the Spurs 102, Nets 85 Trailing 15-14 midwaythe victory. 
Ken Norman each added 13. noor and added eight assists in through the first period, the Miller scored 11 points in a 
Billy Owens had 18 points and 26 minutes. He was 4-for-5 on David Robinson scored 22 Spurs scored 12 straight points 17-3 Pacers run as Indiana 
Glen Rice 17 for the Heat. 3-point attempts, and Cleveland points and Vinny Del Negro to take the lead for good. The overcame a 1 0-point de licit in 
Mookie Blaylock, who had a as a team was 11-for-19 from added 19 Wednesday night as Nets rallied briefly, scoring the the lirst quarter. career-high 35 points in a vic­long range. the San Antonio Spurs won last eight points of the third 
The Clippers, who hit their 
tory over the Los Angeles The Cavs stopped a three­their fifth straight, taking a period on back-to-hack three­first nine shots of the game and Clippers Monday night, made game losing streak. 102-85 victory over the New point plays by Sean Higgins and shot 72 percent from the noor 
only 2 of 20 shots, missing his Sacramento, which hasn't won Jersey Nets. Gilliam and two free throws byin the lirst period, trailed 56-53 
lirst 13 of which nine were 3-a road game against Cleveland The Spurs, playing their sec­Chris Childs, cutting the Spurs' at hatltime despite hitting all 
point attempts. since 1984, began the night one ond game since Dennis Rodman lead to 76-71. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Norre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAK·  Project Software Engineer  FOR SALE: OAKHILL CONDO  BOUND TO FORGIVE: A  
NOTICES  FAST, 35 MIN TO N.D. SPECIAL "OBSERVER" RATE $50/$60.  WANTED  Leading software developer in Columbus, Ohio seeks software  FIRST LEVEL UNIT. TWO BDR, 2 BATH. FIREPLACE, ALL APPLI·  Pilgrimage of a Beirut Hostage to Reconciliation  
FULL BREAKFAST. THE HOME·  engineer with BSCE degree or  ANCES. FINISHED BASE·  A lecture by Father Martin Janco  
ATIENTION SOPHOMORES:  SPUN COUNTRY INN, NAPPA·  NATIONAL PARKS HIRING·  higher. Engineer to develop in  MENT WITH 2 BOA, FAMILY  sponsored by Cavanaugh Hall  
Are you looking lor that service pro­ NEE, 219-773-2034.  Seasonal & full-time employment  Windows/Windows NT environment  ROOM AND BATH. CLUBHOUSE  Sunday March 26 7pm at the  
Ject that really makes a difference,  available at National Parks. Forests  using knowledge of Visual Design  AND POOL. $86,500.  Hesburgh Auditorium · Reception to  
and is a lot of fun? Look no fur­ PARENTHOOD  & Wildlife Preserves. Benefits &  Tools and Visual  CALL DAWN MEYERS/ COLD·  follow!  
ther...  (not ROBIN HOOD)  bonuses! Call: 1-206·545·4804 ext.  C++. Experience with Client/Server  WELL BANKER 271·0266  
THE SOPHOMORE CLASS  Thurs 811 030  N55842  architecture, distributed database  235-3241  There will be an ON CAMPUS sup­ 
SERVICE PROJECT  Montgomery Theatre $1  applications and project manage­ port group for people who are deal·  
Youth Mentoring at the NE  CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ·  ment a plus. Full time position with  OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered  ing with the issue of HOMOSEXU­ 
Neighborhood WEDNESDAYS  FRANKENSTEIN  Earn up to $2,000+/month working  benefits. Please mail resume with  at $85,900. First floor location.  ALITY on Thursday night at 7:30  
AND FRIDAYS 2:30-3:30-4:30  Fri. & Sat.  on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­ salary requirement to ScanDala  Finished basement with full lavato­ pm. For more in:·::~rmation call287­ 
meet at room 161 or Main Circle  Cushing Auditorium  panies. World travel (Hawaii,  Systems Mail Stop 4400 4420  ry. Two bedrooms and two baths on  6665. This is a great place to dis·  
Questions? · Brian Tierney x1 058  8110:30  Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.).  Tuller Road Dublin, Ohio 43017  ground level. Lease back to owner  cuss coming out to family. friends,  
Seasonal and full-time employment  through May, 1995. Call  and to listen to other gay people  
The Mulberry Players are coming!  • • • • TROOP ND classes  available. No experience neces­ DIRECT CONTACT STAFF  (616)946-0700.  who are dealing with the same  
Look for them!  Tues & Thurs (Mar. 21 & 23)  sary. For more information cal 1·  responsible to provide individual  issues. Remember Smile and Be  
219 Rockne at 8 PM  206-634·0468 ext. C55844  training to developmentally disabled  Canon AE1 cameras and equip­ Proud\  
Sexual Assault Awareness Week  • • • • TROOP ND classes • • • •  children and adults. High school  ment Two cameras, lanes, flashes,  
Coming Soon! WIDESPREAD PANIC  ILOST & FOUND I  SUMMER EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY. Up to 10 weeks, good pay.  diploma or G.E.D. required. Training provided. Day, evening & weekend shifts. Hourly wage and  and ACC. 232.7591 CALL AFTER 5PM.  ND/SMC Ballroom Dance Club's Danceathon is coming Saturday March 25 in the  
Vacation relief cook at a private  benefits. Contact Tanya, 289·0385  Black Leather Rocker-Recliner  LaFortune Ballroom!  
People People People!  retirement villa serving under 40  at LOGAN. E.O.E. M/F  Looks New & Nice  Join us between 1 Oam and 10pm  
Have you not bought tickets yet for  LOST on FRI3110  men in a lodge type setting. Must  $350 Call Jewan 234·1285  for your favorite dances, including  
the Widespread Panic show? What  HEART-SHAPED silver RING Jade  be able to follow a set menu, set-up  WANTED: former wrestlers to help  Cha-cha, Swing, Two-step, Tango,  
are you waiting for? Did you know  in middle between North Dining Hall  & break down a limited buffet line.  coach a kid's freestyle wrestling  LOSE WEIGHT FOR SUMMER!  and street dancing--anything goes!  
that the multl-superduper guitar duo  and Center for Social Concerns in  Starting mid-May ending before Fall  program. Ages 5 & up. 2  Alter 3 kids, I lost 23 lbs., went from  Members-don't forget your pledge  
JACKOPIERCE is opening for  morning! FAMILY HEIRLOOM!  school session. Send short resume  nights/week, 6·8 pm. Call Tom  size 9 to a 3 in 8 weeks, w/o  sheets, and bring your friends!!  
them? Get on the move and grab  REWARDIII Call Rana x1373.  listing your qualifications to:  Dolly at 255·0137.  diets/drugs/exercise. All-natural  $1 admission for any non-member  
some tickets today!  Summer Cook  products, easy, guaranteed! Kelly  Everyone welcome!!  
WIDESPREAD PANIC and  LOST: Black leather shoulder bag in NOH. Bag unimportant contents  P.O. Box N Notre Dame, IN 46556  FOR RENT  1·800-209-2150  SABOR LATINO  
JACKOPIERCE playing live on  necessary to sustain life at ND. If  ATIN: Jim Newberry.  BIKE, APPLE 2C COMPUTER &  
Thursday, March 23 at 8:00p.m.  found please contact Rachel  LIVE IN A GOOD NEIGHBOR·  DRYER.272-6306  Saturday, March 25  
Stepan Center  @4093.  REWARDING SUMMER JOB ·  HOOD FURNISHED HOMES  10:30 pm, Club 23  
Orlando, FL • residential camp serv­ NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT  90 Toyota Corolla SR5 50KMi  
LIKE ANIMALS?  !11111111\IIIIIIIIIIFOUNDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII  ing developmentally disabled hiring  SCHOOL YEAR IDEAL FOR 3·8  5-spd $6450 234·4113  SABOR LATINO  
Calculator in computer cluster.  counselors 18+. Live and work on  STUDENTS 2773097  
COME SEE BIRDS OF PREY  Probably lost early in semester. Call x0827 to identity type and  beautiful, lakefront preserve. Salary plus room, board & extras. 6111·  MOVE OCI180/mo w/3 !em  PERSONAL  IIIII\  
with  location and to claim.  8/18. Call 407-889·8088 for applica­ @ Turtle Creek,  TO IOWA NYW 375,  
BIRD REHABILITATOR  tion.  summer/95-96 273-6437  ••• SUB presents "'  
JANEY FINK  >>>>>>>>>LOST<<<<<<<<<<<  the  HOW ABOUT DINNER? GIVE ME  
283 Galvin  Red paisley J.G. Hook umbrella  HOMES FOR RENT  HILARIOUS  A NUMBER.  
Thursday 7pm  last semester from first floor  • HELP! HELP! HELP! HELP!  NEAR CAMPUS  INSPIRATIONAL  
Food & drink provided  Cavanaugh. It's very important to  232-2595  KEVIN HUGHES,  -THE WHITE CAR  
me, SO PLEASE RETURN ITI  AN TOSTAL '95  the World's Funniest Advisor on  
Bridget's • Open 8:00·3:00am  Call x1374. I'll come pick it up if  2 BDRM AVAIL. NOW $295 MO. 3  LIFE, LOVE, and LAUGHTER for  IF YOU SMOKE CAMEL CIGA·  
Thurs · $2 night  necessary, no questions asked.  needs a logo for our theme  BDRM. NEXT FALL, NEAR CAM·  Relationships in the '90s  RETIES,CALL  
Fri • Post St. Pat's Party  PUS.272·6306  @ 7:30 p.m., Sat March 25 @  2954  
Open at 5:00  FOUND  "Quest for the Crown"  The Library Auditorium  
Shady Elaine Band Sat -Specials  WOMAN'S RING IN DBRT, SEC· OND FLOOR. CALL 2954  • (which has something to do with •  LIVE IN A GOOD NEIGHBOR· HOOD FURNISHED HOMES  Bring a date and it's FREEII  hlihjhhlih  ....  
Little Milton Band  dorm competitions).  NORTH OF NO FOR NEXT  "His subject is sex, his message is  
POSTED: $ 250.00 Reward  SCHOOL YEAR IDEAL FOR 3·8  love, and his tool is laughter!"  Look out music city, cause here I  
$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS$$  For the retrieval or info leading to  If you can DRAW, then  STUDENTS 2773097  come  
Are you going to read those things again? I think not. 2323·2342 Pandora's Bks ND Ave & Howard  the retrieval of my stolen mountain bike. Brand: Cadex Alm-1, 18", Front suspension  SUBMIT SOMETHINGIII  I· FORSALE  We need some nice guys. If you quality (or even if you don't) and would like to be a softball  and I ain't never leavin'l "Holy bagels!"  
Color: metalic sliver and wine·  • turn drawings in to the SUB  coach for PE, call Kate at x4365  "No, no, its Holy Doughnuts!"  
KEYBOARD CREATIONS WORD  berry red. -Do the right thing,  486/33 MiniTower PC 230MB  "Where?"  
PROCESSING SERVICES/  Please Ill No questions asked.  • office, 2nd floor LaFun, by next •  VGA Monitor, Modem & Soltwares  Ann, do something tunny already.  "Nowhere, it smells like them."  
7 DAYS A WEEK/CALL 277·8!i18  Call Brian 234·4322  'Wed. Questions, call Tom at 1563'  $850 OBO Call Jewan 234-1285  Else I'll have to write about finite.  "Oh"  

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, March 23, 1995 
•NBA 

Rush is on to produce Jordan regaining form 
B HOWARD ULMAN her own poem, whi~h said, _In that game, he missed 21 of
new Jordan jerseys 
y "Character is one thmg that his 28 shots. On Wednesday
Associated Press f 
never dies. Let's not believe night, he made 9 of 17 and let BOSTON these harmful lies."Then the for good with Chicago leading 
Now, that was more like the game resumed and the Bulls 115-97 with three mi~utes left. Michael Jordan people remem-continued the domination they By then, about one-third of the ber. showed in the ftrst half, which crowd had left the building. 
His shots were falling, he was ended with the score 69-54. Scottie Pippen added 18 in the flow from the start and And Jordan continued his hot points and Toni Kukoc 16 for he had a role in a Chicago Bulls hand. He wasn't spectacular, Chicago, which led by at least victory for the first time since just steady, as eight of his nine 10 points throughout the last June 20, 1993, the day they baskets came on jumpers. three quarters. won their third straight NBA ti-Boston was led by Sherman tl He had made 6 of 9 shots in Douglas with 23 points,
~s in the old days, it was his the ftrst half, all long jumpers. Dominique Wilkins with 20 team's biggest role. Then he sank his first of the points and Derek Strong with 
Jordan missed his first five second half on his only dunk, 16 rebounds. shots in his return to the NBA giving the Bulls a 73-57 lead in Jordan scored Chicago's first on Sunday after a 21-month their last regular-season game seven points on a 15-footer absence after that champi-at Boston Garden, which is to from the right, a 3-pointer from onship game. But he sank his be replaced by the new Fleet the left and a 15-footer from first six shots on smooth Center next season. the left wing on his first three jumpers Wednesday night and For most of the game, the ca-shots. scored 27 points as the Bulls pacity crowd was subdued. But But he also picked up three beat Boston 124-107. when Jordan touched the ball, quick fouls and went to the 
flashbulbs would sparkle bench with just 4:38 gone in Jordan also made all eight of 
throughout the ancient arena the game with Chicago ahead his foul shots and had three re­as the fans finally had an excit-15-14. He hit a 17 -footer from bounds, three assists and two 
ing event to savor during a dis-the baseline 27 seconds later, steals in 26 minutes. 
appointing season in which the then followed with a basket At halftime, the Celtics pre­
Celtics are struggling to make from the top of the key that sented a flattering portrait of 
the playoffs. made the score 49-37 and a 20­the Reggie Lewis that their fans 
The Bulls won for the fourth footer that made it 53-39 with would like to remember.His No. 
time in five games and the first 4:29 left in the half. 
35 was retired during a 26­
since Jordan returned to the Jordan ftnally missed 3:07 be­minute ceremony after two 
game he once ruled in Sunday's fore intermission when his shot weeks of newspaper reports 
103-96 overtime loss at from the right side of the lane indicating he used cocaine. But Indiana. bounced off the rim. the emphasis Wednesday was 

By SKIP WOLLENBERG 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Sports clothes maker Champion added a third factory shift to make No. 45 jerseys. Nike rushed to have No. 45 hats printed. Sports card mar­keters scrambled to slip No. 45 into their NBA players series. 
The number that has long conjured up visions of pistols, hit-record singles and a potent malt liquor has a new ambas­sador. 
Michael Jordan took 45 for his return to the Chicago Bulls .last Sunday. In doing so, the athletic superstar has created another potentially lucrative niche in the multibillion dollar 
world of sports marketing. 
"It gives you a chance to do everything you've done over again," said Brian Murphy, publisher of Sports Marketing Letter. 
In ending nearly 1 1/2 years 
in retirement from the NBA, 
Jordan left his old No. 23 hang­
ing from the rafters at the 
Bulls' home arena. That was 
the number he wore for his 
ftrst nine years with the Bulls, 
leading them to three consecu­
tive NBA championships. 
Jordan said he left 23 in re­
tirement because it was the last 
one his father saw him wear. 
His father was killed in 1993, 
and Jordan retired from the 
NBA a few months later. 
No. 45 is what Jordan wore 
in his year-plus stint in base­
ball's minor leagues, where the 
number was almost an irrele­
vant detail. 
His return to basketball, 
which was front-page news 
around the world, also gener­
ated an unexpected boon for 
companies that make mer­
chandise tied to him. 
NBA-licensed goods gener­
ated $2.8 billion in retail sales 
in the year ended July 31 and 
the league expects sales to ex­
ceed $3 billion this year. 
The Chicago Bulls were the 
undisputed league leader in 
merchandise sales during 
Jordan's heyday, but the fast­
rising Charlotte Hornets nosed 
ahead in the ftrst part of this 
fiscal year. NBA spokesman 
Peter Land declined to provide 
speciftc sales ftgures for teams 
m: players, however. 

~ H·~·~PS
\a1 •'
.,


9 SHOOT OUT 
Tuesday, March 28, 7:00 PM Joyce Center Arena 
• Games to 15 Points 
• Single Elimination THREE POINT & FREE THROW CONTEST 
• 
Head to Head Competition 

• 
45 Second Shooting Period 


• Double Elimination 
Register in Advance at RecSports Deadline: Monday, March 27 No Charge 
The NBA jersey licensee Champion, based in Winston­Salem, N.C., began making ex­tra Bulls jerseys -without numbers -after rumors sur­faced this month that Jordan would return to basketball, marketing executive Matt Merchin said. 
Merchin estimated retailers wanted 15,000 to 20,000 dozen new Jordan jerseys and he said a third shift was added Tuesday to meet the demand. The first jerseys bearing Jordan's new number were shipped that day. 
"It's a nice, unexpected surge for our business," said Merchin, who declined to dis­close precise fmancial details. 
Merchin said Jordan's jersey was the NBA's best-seller be­fore he retired, and he expects Jordan quickly will surpass the player who replaced him in that spot, Shaquille O'Neal of Orlando. They go for $40 to $45 in stores. 
The Sports Authority, which owns 107 sports apparel and equipment stores nationwide, said demand for new Jordan items is keenest in Chicago. 
Opinions differ on the future of No. 23 jerseys. Some sports marketers expect they will gain Thursday, March 23, 1995 


~ 
* 
Sou-th Dini~ Hall 
FridaH, rt~rch ~'ttr.. qpm-midnijM: 







~~£; 
Ff\E.E! ... 1i ~ou. wear a fo3o.. $ '/Jo if Hou cton'-t ! 
*J(o D"'t~e Neecleci 
~ RefreshmWs 1'rovitiell *Tickets af the. 'Door 
-~ :­
/ 

u 5'1 ~ lOuA" 
(l?le!vl~ ~heeJ ~eeJ~) 
.. 
lc 


TRAD.tf ID N.A L n 
( l\O urCLz.y 1.,0 ,· t k. poJ-~«neA u 6h:eert, 1.) 
,c 'ROMAN IOC:l A'I 

-~-------~--~-----~--~-­
----~-­
The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, March 23, 1995 
•NHL 

Devils dominate Rangers 

Associated Press 
Sergei Brylin had a goal and an assist in a three-goal second period as the New Jersey Devils drove Mike Richter from the nets in a 5-2 victory Wednesday night over the New York Rangers. 
It marked the first time this season that a goaltender had not fmished a game for the de­fending Stanley Cup champions. 
The game also featured an­other rarity, a power-play goal for the Devils, who had man­aged only 11 in 28 previous games to rank 24th in the 26­team NHL. 
The Devils took control with their second-period burst as Brylin scored the tiebreaker and assisted on another goal by Bill Guerin to help New Jersey take a 4-2 lead. 
Tommy Albelin, Neal Broten and John MacLean also scored for tr ~ Devils, who are 3-1-1 in theil last five games. New Jersey moved into seventh place overall in the Eastern Conference, virtually tying the Rangers. Eight teams from each conference will make the playoffs, which start in little more than a month. 
With the victory, the Devils took a 2-1 lead in the season series over the team that beat them in a thrilling seven-game conference final in last year's playoffs. The Rangers were 6-0 against the Devils in the regu­lar season last year. 
Brian Leetch and Steve 
Larmer scored for the Rangers, 
who lost their fourth straight. The Devils took a 1-0 lead at 
14:26 of the first when Albelin beat Richter, who was screened, with a 60-footer from the left point with New Jersey on a power play. 
Broten scored from in front off MacLean's pass from behind the goal line at 13:29 to give the Devils a 4-1 lead. 
Richter was replaced by Glenn Healy after the goal. 
New York, on a power play, cut the lead to 4-2 when Larmer tipped a shot from the right point by Sergei Zubov. Zubov returned to the lineup after missing nine games be­cause of wrist surgery. 
MacLean restored the Devils' three-goal lead when he scored from in front at 1:11 of the third. 
Whalers 4, Flyers 3 
Defenseman Adam Burt scored with 2:30 left in the third period and the Hartford Whalers ended the Philadelphia Flyers' eight-game winning Renberg tied it at 3 with seven minutes remaining. But Burt, assisted by Andrew Cassels and Geoff Sanderson, beat goal­tender Ron Hextall with a low shot for the go-ahead goal. 
streak  with  a  4-3  victory  
Wednesday night.  
Philadelphia's  Mikael  

The Flyers had outscored op­ponents 36-21 during the win­ning streak, which included five one-goal victories. 
Philadelphia took a 2-0 lead in the first period on goals by Rob DiMaio and John LeClair. 
Darren Turcotte and Sanderson scored for the Whalers in the second period. Frantisek Kucera scored on a rebound early in the third pe­riod, giving the Whalers a 3-2 lead. 
Hextall stopped 12 shots in the first period. The Flyers took only three shots in the period, but scored on two of them. DiMaio got his second goal of the season at 12:05 and LeClair extended his consecutive-game point streak to 11 with his 18th goal at 17:11. 
LITILE MILTON 
(featuring "Recorder Man") at Jazzman's, Thrus. 23rd & Bridget's, Sat. 25th 




0 'MALLEYAWARD 
1995 UNDERGRAD PROFESSOR OF 11/E YEAR AWARD 
HAVE YOU EVER HAD 1HATPROFESSOR 1HAT YOUU NEVER FORGET; mATPROFESSOR mATMADE YOU WANT TO IEARN1 
Nomination forms are now available for the 1995 O'Malley Award recognizing greatness in undergraduate education. The winning professor receives an award of $1000! 
Forms are available in the Student Government Office, 2nd floor of LaFortune. All forms are due 
·~  A.ss0  Wednesday, March 29th.  
fS~@~:J ~­...... 0  Questions? Call Thad at 631-6283.  
~  :::1  


SPONSORED BY STUDENT GOVERNMENT AND 


THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
Thursday, March 23, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• COlLEGE BASKETBALl •NBA 
Virginia Tech headed Drug use still not confirmed 
By JON MARCUS five people smoking marijuana
to NIT's Final Four 
Associated Press and never once did Reggie Lewis take part in any of it." 
Associated Press Cassell Coliseum this season, 
BOSTON 
Giavara said: "The programnow goes to New York for the More friends of Reggie Lewis

BlACKSBUHG, Va. was completely out of control. 
semifinals against the winner 
have stepped forward to de­
Center Travis .Jackson hit a We were tested before the
of Thursday night's nounce reports that he did
3-pointer from the corner with NCAA (tournament) and tested
Washington State-Canisius 
drugs while one unnamed med­
1.9 seconds left to lift Virginia positive. Nothing happened.
game.

Tech to a 64-61 victory over ical source said Lewis regularly Doctor said, 'Don't worry about 
The Aggies trailed 39-20 at 
used cocaine to improve his
New Mexico State in the NIT it. Just clean it up in time for
halftime after making just 26 game.
quarterfinals Wednesday night. the tournament'."
percent of their shots in the 
A former teammate who now
Virginia Tech (23-1 0) squan­Like at least two other mem­
first half. That left the Aggies 
lives in California told The
dered a 20-point lead in the bers of the team, he admitted
facing their largest halftime Associated Press that members
second half against the Aggies he smoked marijuana and said
deficit this year. 
of the Northeastern University
(25-1 0), who used an aggres­he tested positive for drugs. 
But the Aggies went on a 22­
basketball squad used mari­
sive press and driving baskets Lewis, who went on to play
6 run in the middle of the sec­juana and cocaine, but Lewis
to get within range in the final for the Boston Celtics, collapsed 
ond half, with .Johnny Selvie's never joined in. The story jibed 
six minutes. during a playoff game with the
driving layup with 8:40 remain­
Shawn Good had 16 points with comments from other Charlotte Hornets on April 29,
ing cutting Virginia Tech's lead 
for the Hokies, Shawn Smith members of the team, who 1993. He later collapsed and
to 51-47. 

have admitted doing drugs
had 15 and Ace Custis had 13 died on July 27, 1993, while
Damon Watlington's free 
themselves, but not with Lewis. 
to go with 1R rebounds. shooting baskets with friends at
throws and 3-pointer with 3:36 "The team was an extremely
Troy Brewer scored 20 for Brandeis University. 
remaining put the Hokies up 
hard-partying team," said Ken
New Mexico State, whieh had The Boston Herald on
61-54. But Tech failed to make 
Giavara, who played point
been averaging 86 points a Wednesday quoted an un­
another shot until Jackson's 
game. Thomas Wyatt and guard at Northeastern in 1986-named medical source as say­
bomb at the end. 
87 and now runs a dry cleaning 
Hodney Walker each had 13 ing Lewis admitted to a doctor
Brewer's jumper with 13 sec­company in San Diego. "I've
points. that he used cocaine before ev­
onds to play tied the game 61­
Virginia Tech, 7-0 in NIT been in a room with four or five ery home game as a "perfor­
61. 

people doing cocaine or four or
games at home and 14-1 in mance enhancer." The source 
Suitcase Party • Suitcase Party • Suitcase Party 



SENIORS!! 
want to win a weekend for two in Vegas for $1? Then get your Tix at LaFortune info Desk and be at Alumni Senior Club on Wednesday, March 2 9 
for Las Vegas Party and for the drawing... 
...Hey, it's only a buck 
Suitcase Party • Suitcase Party • Suitcase Party 
TEACHING AND RESEARCH ABROAD!!! Announcing The Fulbright Competition for 1996-97. 
said Lewis would not or could not stop, even after he was warned that the continued use of cocaine might kill him. 
Jan Volk, Celtics executive vice president and general manager, said the Herald ac­count was "an incredibly bold statement to be made under the cloak of an unnamed source and an obvious violation of medical ethics." 
Amid the controversy, Lewis' accomplishments on the bas­ketball court were highlighted Wednesday night at Boston Garden, where his number was retired at halftime of the Celtics game against Michael Jordan and the Chicago Bulls. 
His widow, Donna Harris­Lewis, read her own poem ti­tled "Believe What Your Own Eyes See." 
"Though rumors now sur­round his death, he cared too much for basketball to risk his health. Character is one thing that never dies. Let's not be­lieve these harmful lies," she read. 
Only one of his college or pro teammates has said publicly that he witnessed Lewis using drugs. Derrick Lewis, a former Northeastern player and no relation, told The Boston Globe and The Wall Street Journal that he used cocaine with Lewis just days before Lewis col­lapsed during the Hornets game. Derrick Lewis recanted his story Tuesday night, though the Globe said a taped inter­view backed up its reporting. 
Other friends defended Lewis. 
"There might have been dif· ferent players on the squad that indulged in different things, but Reggie wasn't one of them," Wes Fuller, who roomed with Lewis at Northeastern, told The Associated Press. "It just was­n't in his makeup." 
Giavara said drug use at Northeastern was so "out of control" that he transferred to the University of Hartford, where he graduated. 
Northeastern President John Curry last week ordered an in­vestigation into alleged drug use by members of the univer­sity's basketball team. 
"As he made clear over the weekend, the university's con­cern here is very broad and goes beyond a single incident of a single test, and that is, are we and have we in the past done all that we could to maintain the well-being of our student athletes." 
All freshmen, sophomores and especially juniors interested 
.­

in Graduate Study Abroad, don't miss the 

informational meeting with_Professor A. James McAdams Monday evening, April 3, 1995 at 7:00pm in room 126 DeBartolo ******A Great Notre Dame Tradition of Winning Fulbrights****** 

Cedar Point has 3,500 summer Jobs available for 1995. Housing available for those 18 &: older. 
Earn up to S5.30 an hour. Interviews will be held at: 
University of Notre Dame 
LaFortune Student Center Sorln Room 
Thursday, March 23, 1995 10:00 a.m. -4:00p.m. 

No appointment necessary. For more 
lnfonnat!on, coli ((19) 627-2245. EOE 

~Pornt
AMUUMINT ,.ARM:/RISOaT 

-r-----~ ~ 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, March 23, 1995 
Campus View Apartments SUMMER LEASES 

6 weeks to 3 months 
Furnished Apartments, All Uti I ities Covered, Central Air 
For more information Call272-1441 
• MARCH MADNESS 

Kentucky looks to avoid upset 
By PAUL NEWBERRY 
Associated Press 
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. 
Arizona State looked the part of outcast Wednesday at the NCAA Southeast Regional. 
The players took the court for a brief practice with their jer­seys all askew, some turned inside out, others flipped around backwards. Coach Bill Frieder, a notable flake, showed up at the Birmingham­Jefferson Civic Center wearing a sweat suit, loafers -and no socks. 
It was a fitting image for a team that has many people ask­ing: "Who's that fourth team in Birmingham?" 
"We're probably the craziest team in the country," said star center Mario Bennett. 
Craziness aside, the fourth­seeded Sun Devils (24-8) are· also the most unknown com­modity at the Southeast Regional, an otherwise glam­orous pairing that includes the two winningest schools in col­lege basketball history, top­seeded Kentucky and No. 2 seed North Carolina, along with 1984 national champion Georgetown. 
Maybe that's why Bennett, asked his thoughts on playing Kentucky Thursday night in the regional semifinal, said matter­of-factly: "It feels good to be alive. That's about it." 
But don't get the impression the Sun Devils are just happy to be making their first appear­ance in the round of 16 since 

that time just flies. loves. 
1975. They are livid over odd­smakers who established Kentucky as a 14-point favorite. 
"How big an underdog are we?" asked a skeptical Bennett, the Sun Devils' force in the middle who leads the team in three different cate­gories with 18.2 points, 8.2 re­bounds and 3.5 blocks a game. 
"Those people don't see our practices. They don't see how hard we work. We worked too hard to get this far to get blown out. I'll tell you this much: you won't see a blowout game. It'll be a good game." 
But Arizona State -or any­one else, for that matter ­faces serious match-up prob­lems against Kentucky, which certainly has the look of a team capable of running the field. 
The Wildcats (27 -4) haven't lost in more than five weeks, winning 10 straight games by an average margin of 20.7 points. The only team to stay within double figures was de­fending national champ Arkansas, which built a 19­point lead in the finals of the Southeastern Conference tour­nament only to fall 95-93 in overtime. 
Even Kentucky coach Rick Pitino, after reeling off the virtues of Arizona State ("the quickest team I've seen"), con­ceded that his squad has all the elements to go all the way. 
"I've had so much fun this year," he said. "Our practices are so exciting. When we scrimmage, it's so competitive 
"In the past, we had to press to camouflage our man-to-man defense. We had to zone to camouflage our rebounding woes. We no longer have to do that. It's taken a while to reach this point, but we now have size, we have quickness. We haven't had to rely on 3-point shot to win. We had to do that last year." 
Of course, the Wildcats still love to shoot from outside the 3-point arc, led by Mr. Outside Tony Delk, who leads the team with 16.3 points a game. Forward Roderick Rhodes (13.0 points) and Walter McCarty (1 0.4 points, 5. 7 rebounds) handle the inside load. 
But as good as the starters are, the Kentucky bench may be even better. 
Freshman Antoine Walker is a budding star, scoring a career-high 23 points against Arkansas in the conference tournament, while Mark Pope is the team's leading rebounder and Anthony Epps the top play­maker even coming off the bench most of the year. 
"To be honest with you right now, if the second unit played against the first unit, the sec­ond unit would win," Pitino said. "That's how close the two units are." 
That is the crux of Arizona State's problem. The Sun Devils go only two-deep on the bench, while Kentucky has the depth (nine players are averaging at least 12 minutes a game) to play at the frenetic pace Pitino 

Photo courtesy of Kentucky Sports Information 
Anthony Epps and the Kentucky Wildcats will face Arizona State tonight in the NCAA Southeast Regional. 


The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paidposition: 
Advertising Account Executive 
Do you want: 
•sales 
experience? 

•steady 
performance compensation? 

•a 
fun place to work? 

•practical 
business experience? 

•help 
with your resume? 


Ifso, call John at 1-6900 or 4-1023 or drop offa resume to 314 LaFortune by Friday, ~arch 24th at 5:00PM. 
. -------· -----~--­
-------------------~--------~--~-------­
Thursday, March 23, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
• MARCH MADNESS 
Pressure on UCLA to keep winning 
By BETH HARRIS 
Associated Press 
OAKLAND, Calif. 

In Mississippi State's second­round victory over Utah, Erick Dampier blocked shots with such force the ball often wound up in the first few rows. 
The 6-foot-11 intimidator gets his way by crashing a 255­pound body against smaller, lighter opponents. 
.Dampier's presence in the middle, along with 3-point shooters T.J. Honore and Marcus Grant, often is enough to put away most teams. 
But the Bulldogs won't have an easy time against UCLA in Thursday's first game of the West Regional. The Bruins, top­seeded in the West, re the No. 1 team in the nation with a 15­game winning streak. 
UClA's answer to Dampier is George Zidek, who otTers a deft hook shot and 7 -feet worth of blocking ability. 
"lie's probably going to be the best center I've played this year -so far. He's an ex­tremely physical guy and has a lot of reach," Zidek said Wednesday. "1 think I'm pretty physical, too. My hook shot is pretty tough to block." 
Zidek prefers matching up against big players over quick­er, smaller opponents who can get him in foul trouble more easily. 
"We're going to move George around a little bit and see what Dampier does. Is he going to come out and play him? George is good in the short corners, he's good at the top of the key and the foul line," UCLA coach Jim Harrick said. "I think (Dampier) will block some shots and that he'll alter some shots, but I don't know that he'll in­timidate us." 
Dampier joined some elite company with 21 points, 10 re­bounds and a career-high eight blocks against Utah. Only Shaquille O'Neal (11), Shawn Bradley (10) and David Robinson (9) had more blocks in an NCAA tournament game. 

He surprised coach Richard Williams by showing up early for breakfast the day of the Utah game. Dampier has a rep­utation for being unreliable as far as getting up and getting to places on time. 
"Erick sometimes feels more challenged by some teams and some players than others," Williams said. "When he really feels a challenge, he tends to play better. He had great games this year against Georgia, Kentucky and Arkansas." 
The fifth-seeded Bulldogs (22­
7) never had won a game in the tournament until beating Santa Clara and Utah in the first two rounds. Those victories were even bigger news in Starkville, Miss., than an 83-62 win over defending national champion Arkansas earlier this season. 
Mississippi State's enrollment of 13,371 accounts for much of the town's 15,000 residents. 
"It's a big deal for our fans and university," Williams said. 
"When we came in from Idaho, there were probably 1,000 peo­ple at the airport. That might not sound like a lot to some of you, but it overflowed our air­port." 
Williams took his players home Sunday night rather than arrive two days early in Oakland, saying they weren't accustomed to big-city life. 
UCLA also arrived Wednesday, but for different reasons. The players have final exams this week, which re­quired some of them to take tests Monday and Tuesday. 
Williams admitted that as much as the Bulldogs want to beat UClA, they don't have to. 
"Our fans will be happy with us if we don't win. They'll be excited about the season we've been able to put together." he said. 
"In Westwood, everybody has high expectations of us," Zidek said. "We really need to keep this going and win some more games." 

Maryland,<H'  
UConnto  
battle in  
Oakland  
By STEVE WILSTEIN  
As$oclated Prl$$  
OAKlAND, Calif.  
If college teams could stay  
together, keep their coaches  
and create their own fran­ 
chises in the NBA.  
Connecticut and Maryland  
might be competing for a  
league title in a few years.  
For the moment, these two  
teams with NBA-style size.  
speed and talent are shoot­ 
ing for a spot in the Final  
Four, and one will knock off  
the other Thursday in the  
semifinals of the NCAA West  
Regionals and go on to a  
probable matchup against  
No.1 UCLA.  
Connecticut may have the  
finest, best-balanced starting  
five in the country, led by  
workhorse Donny Marshall  
at power forward, silky Ray  
Allen at small forward, savvy  
Kevin Ollie at poiut guard,  
former Israeli national team  
star Doron Sheffer at shoot­ 
ing guard, and 7-footer  
Travis Knight at center.  
It is a unit that plays with  
maturity, even if Allen and Sheffer are sophomores and  ,.  
Knight a junior. And coming  
off the bench are two solid  
players who could just as  
well be starting, center Eric;  
Hayward and guard Brian  
Fair.  
Maryland is perhaps slight­ 
ly less balanced in its  
starters, but it has the added  
dimension of the best player  
on either team -All­ 
America center Joe Smith.  
No ordinary Joe, the skinny  
6-10 Smith scored 31 points,  
grabbed 21 rebounds and  
blocked seven shots in  
Maryland's last victory over  
Texas and said the numbers  
didn't surprise him. "Every  
player has an ego," Smith  
said Wednesday, "every  
player has the frame of mind  
that, :Jf I play my game I  
can't be stopped."'  
Maryland is used to big  
games by Smith, but it is  
hardly a one-man team and  
he plays with uncommon  
selflessness. 'Tm not going  
to go out at crmtch time,'' he  
said, "and try to take over  
the game."  
He doesn't have to.  
Forwards Keith Booth and  
Exree Hipp are potent  
rebounders and scorers, and  
guards Johnny Rhodes and  
Duane Simpkins know how  
to get the ball into the big  
men.  
''Joe has gotten the atten­ 
tion," Maryland coach Gary  
Williams said, "but other guy  
have stepped up all year."  
"'Connecticut is very  
quick.'' Williams said. "Four  
of their starters can handle  
the ball and get it up court  
very fast."  
The exception would be  
Knight, but if he stays out of  
foul trouble he starts fast  
breaks with his rebounding, outlet passes and blocked  •  
shots.  

That's what we're all about. Interested? 
Multicultural Executive Council now accepting appli­cations for the 1995-96 school year. 

Applications can be picked up in the Student Activities Office. Deadline: March 24. 

-

---------~---­
page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, March 23, 1995 
• MARCH MADNESS 

A_ 

S01ith, Tho01pson to 01eet again in classic chaiilpionship re01atch 

They have been on opposite benches only three times and the biggest of Smith's two wins was the 1982 NCAA champi­onship game. That was the one where a North Carolina fresh­man named Michael Jordan hit a big jumper with 17 seconds to play and the game ended when Georgetown's Fred Brown handed the ball to James Worthy for one of the most famous turnovers in tourna­ment history. 
By JIM O'CONNELL 
Associated Press 
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. There are few lists regarding college basketball coaching 
success  without the names  
Dean  Smith  and  John  
Thompson.  

The two are close friends and presidents of each other's ad­miration society and ready to go in Thursday night's Southeast Regional semifmals. 

Smith's second-seeded North Carolina Tar Heels (26-5) are fmally back in the round of 16 after losing to Boston College in the second round last season to end a 13-year run of getting to at least the regional semifmals of the NCAA tournament. 
Thompson's sixth-seeded Georgetown Hoyas (21-9) haven't been this far since 1989, losing in the second 
round four of the last five years. 
"It's ironic you feel so good being here and so bad when you're not," Thompson said Wednesday. 
The coaching matchup makes it even more so. Smith holds the record with 25 tournament appearances, including his cur­rent consecutive streak of 21 years. Thompson is making his 18th appearance and his 14­year streak that ended in 1993 is second to Smith's. 
"We will be playing against a very dear friend and someone I have a lot of respect for," Thompson said. "When I was the coach at St. Anthony's High School, Dean recruited one of my players, and it was an op­portunity for us to talk a little and I found how close our philosophies were and that's how the relationship started." 
"We are still very special friends and I have tremendous respect for John as a man and a coach," Smith said. "Still the fmest speech I have ever heard was given by John to our Olympic team in 1976 before we played Yugoslavia." 
March 24 9:00PM LaFortune Ballroom $1 .00 Admission it will be cooll 
The Alumni-Senior Club is hiring 




BARTENDERS 
for the 95-96 season. 
Pick up applications at Student Activities, 315 LaFortune. Must be 21+ by September, 1995. 
Coach John Thompson will try to avenge Georgetown's 1982 NCAA Finals loss to North Carolina when the two square off again Thursday. 
THE NEW SMASH HIT FROM THE ACCLAIMED DIRECTOR OF 
THE WEDDING BANQUET 
"BRACE YOURSELF FOR A VISUAL ORGY! 
A delicious stew of food and sex!" 
-Edward Guthmann, SAN FRANCISCO CHRONICLE 

''WONDERFULLY SEDUCTIVE! 
Irresistible. An almost edible treat." 
-Janet Maslin, THE NEW YORK TIMES 
" it. * * *! DELICIOUS! 
A sure-fire Oscar nominee." 
-Michael Medved, THE NEW YORK POST 

D[]Lc:.-:r' 

CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 & 9:45 
Thursday, March. 23, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
• MARCH MADNESS 

Regionals Semifinals Semifinals Regionals



IINCAAMFN~ 
MIDWEST EAST 
B~mBALLCBAMPIONRP 
Kansas City, Missouri 

East Rutherford, N.J. March 24 & 26 March 24 & 26 


National Championship 

Seattle, Washington Seattle, Washington April1
SOUTHEAST 1 
April 


WEST 

1. UCLA 

5. Mississippi St. 
Birmingham, Alabama 
Oakland, California March 23 & 25 March 23 & 25 

Voice your opinion in Viewpoi·nt 


ATTENTION: 


INTERESTED IN BECOMING A PART OF NEXT YEAR'S SOPHOMORE CLASS COUNCIL? 
APPLICATIONS ARE NOW AVAILABLE IN THE STUDENT GOVERNMENT OFFICE ON THE 2ND FLOOR OF LAFORTUNE. APPLICATIONS MUST BE TURNED IN BY THURSDAY, MARCH 30 AT SPM. 
MEGAN Pf1fR MAIT CONNIE 
MURRAY MORIARIT GRIFFIN DOUGHERIT 
QUESTIONS? CALL MATT AT 2024. 

HAPPY 21ST 
PARTY HEARlY! 
LOVE, 
MOM, DAD, 

SUZANNE, CHRIS & 
HONEY 
-

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 

XXIV SIGN-UPS 
.,._
MAIN SIGN UPS($10/TEAM) 
In LaFortune 
Tuesday, March 216-9 p.m. Wednesday, March 22 11:30-2 & 6-9 p.m. Thursday, March 23 6-9 p.m. 
In North and South DiningHalls 
-

Thursday, March 23 11:30-1 p.m. LATE SIGN-UPS($13/TEAM) 
In LaFortune 
Friday, March 2 4 11:3 0-2 p.m. 
•

In O'Shag-The Great Hall 
Saturday, March 2 5 1 -4 p.m. 

2 Captains and 2 team names 
Be a part of Notre Dame's greatest traditions. Don't Be Left Out! 
~--·----~ --~ -~~~-~ ----------~----­
r 
page 22 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, March 23, 1995
I 
i 
I 
I 
• ND SOFTBAll 

4 




Irish open home schedule with Ohio State 
BY NEIL ZENDER Sports Wrirer 
So much for the home field advantage. When Notre Dame (12-6) takes on Ohio State this afternoon, it will only be the second time they've played on their own field all season. The first, incidentally, was yester­day's practice. The 3 p.m. matchup will be against a tough Buckeye team. Last year, a young Ohio State club was a powerful force in the Big Ten. This year, they're a year older, a year wiser, and a year better. 

"We have to show up to play ball," Coach Liz Miller said. "Starting the regular season at home, you need to set the tone. We start conference play in just another week." 
A good performance against the Buckeyes is essential. They are one of the top dogs in the Big Ten, so a win will do won­ders for Notre Dame's regional 


Kevin KUWIK President 

ranking. 
To win, Notre Dame will need some aggressive hitting. Throughout the season, timid bats have been the Irish's Achilles' heel. In the Honeycut's Softball Invitational at the University of Hawaii, Notre Dame scored a total of four runs on 12 hits in their three losses. In their four wins, the Irish hammered out 19 runs on 34 hits. Tentative hitting has cost Notre Dame games. But it's not for want of talent. Murderer's Row they aren't, but the Irish batting order is capable of producing runs. 
"This is the strongest natural lineup we've ever had in our softball program. They just have to focus," Miller said. 
Much of the timid hitting can be attributed to a young lineup that is still adjusting. Look for freshman center fielder Jennifer Giampaolo to pick up as she gains more confidence at the plate, and garners more experience as the season pro­gresses. Sophomore Elizabeth Perkins, who bats thrid in the line-up, has been streaky. 
"They start taking too many pitches and getting set up (by opposing pitchers)," Miller said. "That comes from a lack of experience." 
Catcher Sara Hayes has been streaky as well. Potentially the club's best hitter, she's sand­wiched several great games around a six game hitless stretch. 
Today will be the first time that Notre Dame has ever played Ohio State on a softball field. Last year would have been the inaugural game, but the contest was rained out. 
Ironically, one of the biggest opponents might just be Notre Dame's home field advantage. The Irish's first practice on their own infield was yesterday. The infielders aren't used to the unique bounces that make a ballpark a ballpark. That will only be compounded by the fact that Notre Dame's last seven games were played on a hard, coarse infield of crushed vol­cano rock in Hawaii. 
But the uncertainty about the field conditions won't hurt Notre Dame's hitting. And that's what needs to erupt. 

The 0 bserver 
t 

is now accepting applications for: 
Accent Writers Accent Music Critics Accent Literary Critics Accent Copy Editors Assistant Accent Editors 
Please submit a one page statement ofintent to Krista in 314 LaFortune by 2 p.m.Mar_ch 24th. Call 631-4540 for more information. 
' 


Kate 
CRISHAM Secretar:' 






.r------------------------~----------------------------------------------­
Thursday, March 23, 1995 The Observer • TODAY MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM MIKE PETERS 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
\S \1-\\'5 '{0\JR •BIG 
ORt>.~E SVRPRI'SE:."? 
DILBERT 
I'VE DECIDED TO 5ELL 

Tr\E. COM.PANY  FOP. A  
HUGE PROFIT  I FOUND  
CROSSWORD  

ACROSS 35 Put down 36 Museum near

1 Sloughs Malibu5 1978 Bujold film 38 Brazilian boater 9 Tousle 39 Dramatic13 Deseret. now musical work 14 Shows 41 Poplarskittishness 42 Very large 15 With1n: Prefix apparitions?16 Get one's goat 45 De Stael and 11 Ivory tusk thief? others
19 Zitherlike 49 Redolence
Instrument 50 Tea-party
21 G1ve up 
crasher22 Noted Norman 51 1968 Winter23 Go without a1r Olympics site conditioning 55 Zookeeper?

25 Animal to hop 1nto bed w1th? 58 Florida -­29 Girder 59 Pass over 30 Was a mentor to 60 Kid's name 
BILL WATTERSON  
\-lt:R£5 '{oUR TIGER. \\£.  HEllO, S\lS\E. COME 01'\ \~.  
w~s 8'( m~ DooR.  



ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 Cooperstown's Carlton 

27 At hand 28 In reserve 
brushwork 
NAZZ IS COMING 

SCOTT ADAMS 
0
,. WHEN YOU SAY 
z IT'S OKAY THE'fRE lf\l'(,
0 
"' 

DISCRIMINATING;
() 

.: u l.JE HAVE. 
BUT A.T LEAST
~ 

'TOU 1"\E AN .? 
li.; LAWS TO THE.'<'f\E
~ 

I PROTECT 
FUNNY!
~ US. ~ 
" ~ .•! 
"' 
..
.. ~ 
g 
"' 
61 Fonda in "My Darling Clementine" 
62 Unthinking response 63 Deal preceder 64 Layover 
DOWN 

1 Pat on the back 2 Football's 
Armstrong 3 Wingding 4 Swindle 5 Mexican 
horseman 6 Pinguid 1 Deb~ssy's "La 
a Tempe sch. 9 Palladium, e.g. 10 Awaiting ignition 
14 --off (renounce) 
32"--Man" 43 Roman odist 51 Essence 10 Treacly (1984 flick) 44 Gland prefix 52 Pooped 20 Pair off 
45 College 53 Vega's 23 Peep shows declaration constellation 34 Cubs' hangouts 
331, 0 or U: Abbr. 

and the like 46 Budget rival 54 Lay eyes on 
24 Lean and strong •
36 Flag waver 

25 Rodin work, with "The" 
37 Vacation times abroad 
40 Peloponnesian valley 
41 Quotation notation 

47 Pinkie, e.g. 56 TV mfr. 48Critical 57 Cacophony 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
page 23 CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 
3-23 


;~;~,··=

Dept. L~ture: Denedicta Ward, SLG. 4 Miracles: Monastic Views of the 
. ulous·in the Early Church ... Thursday, March 23 8:00pm Ullra!r. Auditorium. Oliver Stones "Heaven and Earth," the first 
Vietnam war movie from the perspective,. of the Viet· 
namese will be showing Friday and Saturday. March ,,,24."25Jn the Montgomery Theater. Admission is free. wv The Not-So-Royal-Shakespeare Company 
proudly presents William Shakespeare's "As You Uke It." Saturday and Sunday March 25-26, 1:30pm at Dalloway's Coffee House, SMC. Admission is free. but 
· donations are appreciated. 
Le Ly Hayslip Author of "When Heaven and Earth switched places" and "Child ofWar, Women of Peace," which were the basis for Oliver Stone's movie "Heaven and Earth" will be speaking in 101 Debartolo on 
~' Monday, March 27 at 7:00 PM with reception and book +signing to follow. Cost is $1. Tickets can be purchased in advance at the LaFortune Info. desk. 
•MENU Notre Dame i./NOrth Dining Hall 
Combo Pizza Vegetable Calzone Lemon Cheese Bars 

,,Saint Mary's College 
· Baked Salmon Calzone Grilled Sizzle Steaks Summer Squash 

Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds 
South Dining Hall 
Stir Fry Fettuccine Alfredo Cherry Crisp 
... 
-

Le Secret 
Eclairs smothered in Butter ........ 







SPORTS 
page 24 Thursday, March 23, 1995 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBAll 

Redemption 

After missing a chance to make it to the NCAA Tournament, Notre Dame looks to salvage a season with a win at the WNIT 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT Tigers. Assistant Spons Editor "We would like to end the season on a good note," Irish The Women's National 
head coach Muffet McGraw ex­Invitation Tournament, the plained. "We were disap­
other tournament. It is not the pointed with the (MCC) tour­tournament with the most nament. We would like to go press and it· is not a tourna­into the summer with a good 
ment listed among the presea­feeling." son goals of most teams. Yet If the Irish are going to ad­the honor is no less than that 
vance in the tournament the of the NCAA tournament. key will be their defense. In 
With the plethora of auto­the three loses after Christmas matic bids for conference break their opponents have champions, the NCAA tourna­scored in the 80's and 90's. 
ment's 64 slots fill up fast. "The defense let us down Thus the selection committee against Northern Illinois," must reject many deserving McGraw commented. "We've programs. The WNIT provides had the same problem in the recognition for accomplished last three loses. We have 
teams and provides them lacked defensive intensity and another chance to shine. our rebounding was down." 
The Notre Dame women's 

For Pacific, defense is the basketball team (19-9) was 
name of the game. Pacific 
honored with one of the eight boasts the second best scoringinvitations to the WNIT. As the defense and field goal defense number three seed they will 
in the Big West Conference. face the number six seed 
While limiting their opponentsTigers of Pacific (20-12) today 
scoring they boast the 14th at 3 p.m. in Amarillo, Texas. 
best field goal percentage in )his will be the first ever meet­the nation at 46.9 percent.
ing between the Irish and This efficiency on offense car-

The Observer/Eric Ruethling 
Beth Morgan and her iS-point average will help the Irish as they take on the University of the Pacific in the first round of the Women's NIT today. 
ries a balanced attack in which game." rebounds per game. no player averages more than The Irish are the mirror op­"We will keep Beth coming 10 points a game. Forward posite on offense. Three Irish off the bench, at least for the Connie Blaisure leads the team starters, center Katryna first game," McGraw with 9.9 points per game and Gaither, forward Letitia Bowen explained. "It is a great offen­
4.8 rebounds a game. and forward Carey Poor, all av­sive weapon having someone 
"They do not have one great erage over ten points a game like her coming off the bench." player," McGraw said of the and forward Beth Morgan Should the Irish defeat the Tigers. "They have very bal­comes of the bench to add an­Tigers, they would face the anced scoring and play great other 18 ppg. Gaither leads winner of Clemson versus defense. They only allow the Irish with 18.8 ppg and Northwestern State, La on around 60 to 67 points a Bowen paces the Irish with 8.5 Friday. 
• SAiNT MARY'S SWIMMING 


Smith earns All-American honors as freshman 
By TARA KRULL Sports Writer 


When the rest of the Saint Mary's Swimming and Diving team concluded their season last month at the DePauw University Liberal Arts Championships, fresh­man Allison Smith knew her season was not quite finished. Instead of enjoying the freedom of a "swimming-free lifestyle," Smith returned to the pool to continue training for the NCAA Division III National Championships, held March 
-9-11 at Wesleyan University in Connecticut. The sole member of the 1994-95 Saint Mary's National Team, Smith is, in fact, the first Saint Mary's 
swimmer to ever qualify for the NCAA 
Thursday, March 23 
NO Softball vs. Ohio State, 3 p.m. at Ivy Field NO Women's Basketball at WNIT Tournament vs. Pacific Bookstore Basketball Sign-ups 

championships. place finish in the 1650, with a time of "Allison is a very competitive individ­
According to Belles' coach Greg 17:40, giving her All-American status ual with an excellent work ethic," Janson, Smith made some great waves for that event. Her 1650 time also made Janson said. "Her commitment to the for herself and the team at the meet. her the fastest freshman in Division III Saint Mary's program and the coaching 
"Allison swam very well at NCAAs," swimming across the country. staff has enabled her to achieve the suc­Janson said. "She gained some valuable "I was really nervous going into my cess she did this year." experience for both herself and the first event at NCAAs (the 5QO free), and As far as next year goes, Smith has team. We all have a better idea now of things just didn't click," Smith said, "but already begun her planning. She is look­what to expect for next year." I came back mentally and got my season ing for further improvements with her 
Smith had two performances in best in both the 400 IM and the 1650. events and more NCAA cuts. She will December at the National Catholic which was a great way to end the meet continue to train distance freestyle as Championships and at a dual meet as well as the season for me." well as IM and butterfly. against Albion College that gave her Janson can't complain either. He Janson feels that Smith will only better NCAA consideration times in both the believes that Smith's background and her performances as she proceeds 500 and 1650 freestyle. At the meet, experience has made an impact on the through her collegiate career as well. Smith swam both the 500 and 1650, as Belles' program. In her freshman year "I think her NCAA experience lit a fire well as the 400 individual medley. Out of alone, Smith broke 6 school records in in her," Janson said. "She now knows a field of approximately 2000 NCAA individual events and also holds a relay that she can go faster, which will both Division III swimmers nationwide, she record with three of her teammates. She motivate and prepare her for next year. placed 33rd in the 500 and 23rd in the also scored more points for the Belles She has the ability to compete with the 400 IM. The highlight of the meet for this season than any other swimmer has best-she also succeeds among the Smith and Saint Mary's was her 9th ever scored in a year. best." 
Friday, March 24 Saturday, March 25 
Sunday, March 26 

NO Men's Tennis vs. Indiana, 1 pm 
ND Fencing: NCAA Championships 
ND Lacrosse vs. Hobart, 2 pm 
at Saint Mary's Angela Center 
ND Baseball at Miami SMC Tennis vs. Manchester, 10 am 
(Saturday through Tuesday) 
(through Sunday) NO Softball at Ball State 
ND Men's Tennis vs. Purdue, 
WNIT Second Round NO Women's Tennis at Tennessee 
3 p.m. at Eck Pavilion 

NO Track at E. Kentucky/Stanford 
ND Women's Tennis at Kentucky 








