
Thursday, September 14, 1995• Vol. XXVII No. 19 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• STUDENT SENATE 
Consensus building takes priority 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE Assistant Nc:ws Editor 
The Student Senate must build consen­sus amongst its members before pre­senting issues to the admin­istration and 

members of 
Cassidy
Campus Life 
dent Body President Jonathan Patrick. 
In a discussion of the roles and responsibilities of the Stu­dent Senate, Patrick presented his views of what these roles are: the Senate is an organiza­tion that advises and makes de­cisions about the allocation of runds. 
"We're the only truly repre­sentative student body organi­zation on campus," Patrick said 
With this in mind, he asked, 
Council (CLC), according to Stu-"What do we want to accom­
plish this year as a Senate?" "We have here a student 
"We're not as 'empowered' a leader from every major orga­body as the CLC," Patrick ex­nization on campus. We could plained. "We need to utilize our be the most creative organiza­voices a lot better than we have tion on campus. What we need in the past." to ask ourselves is 'Do we want 
One way for the Senate to do to just be advisors all year?' We that, he said, is to "better for­would be so much more effec­mulate our arguments and tive as students," Lawler said, opinions before presenting "if we came (to CLC) with one them." voice." 
Student Union Board Manger Director of Student Activities Katie Lawler also encouraged Joe Cassidy agreed. He told the Senate unity and initiative to in­crease its presence on campus. see SENATE I page 4 
Mayo: Holtz's recovery looking good 
Head coach's condition upgraded 
to good; will remain hospitalized 
through the weekend 
By DAVE TYLER News Editor 
Lou Holtz's convalescence at the Mayo Clinic continued Tuesday as the Notre Dame coach moved out of the intensive care unit and into a regular hospital room. 
While the 58 year-old Holtz won't be back on the sidelines any time soon, doctors said his recovery from surgery to relieve compression of his spinal cord was proceeding normally. Clinic officials still expect Holtz to remain hospitalized through the weekend. 
"Mr. Holtz is progressing satisfactorily," said Michael O'Hara, spokesman for the Mayo Clinic. "He is up and walking and his spirits are normal for a patient who has had major surgery." 
Doctors at the Rochester, Mn, clinic have called the operation a success and upgraded Holtz's condition to good. 
By all accounts the procedure went according to plan. Over the course of the four and one-half hour operation, two surgeons removed a disc from between Holtz's flfth and six cervical verte­brae and inserted a bone graft in its place. No complications or problems were reported, and Holtz is expected to make a full recovery. No paralysis or permanent damaged resulted. 
The success of the operation presented a stark 

The Observer/David Murphy 
contrast to the confusion that surrounded the 

The prognosis is good for Coach Lou Holtz, pictured above with the team. Holtz is current­ly recovering from Tuesday's spinal cord surgery at the Mayo Clinic. see HOLTZ I page 4 

• NEWS ANALYSIS 
Abortion law spurns questions 
By MARY KATE MORTON Associate Nc:ws Editor 
Indiana Pro-Choicers are on the edges of their seats these days, and it looks like they will stay that way for a while. The pro-choice movement and abortion clinics state­wide are waiting with baited breath on a local state law that will require 

Kommers
women to wait 18 hours after their first consultation before having an abortion. 
The US District Court of Indi­anapolis has injoined the law because questions arose over its constitutionality. As a result, the law will remain in court until the end of October, at which time there will be a hearing as to whether or not it upholds the Constitution. 
The law, scheduled to go into effect on September 1, was successfully blocked by the legal efforts of a group of seven abortion clinics and one doctor, under the auspice that the law really set out to prevent women from getting abortions. Many clinics are rejoicing over the injunction, hoping that it may ultimately lead to a rever­sal of the law; according to Barbara Maze, of the Muncie, IN, Planned Parenthood, the in­junction is a crucial first step. "Until the court makes a final decision, the law cannot go into effect. This is a positive step." 
In addition to the 18 hour waiting period, the new law 
see ABORTION/page 4 



SMC reveals its own share of alcohol problems 
Editor's note: This is the fourth of a five-part series examining the use of alcohol on our campuses. 
By PATTI CARSON Saint Mary's Editor 
"It's a reward. I work hard all week so I can go out for a drink or two on the weekend." 
"It relaxes me." 
"I like the way it tastes." 
That's why Saint Mary's women drink, or so they said when asked in an informal Ob­server poll of 100 Saint Mary's students. 
Of those surveyed, 60 percent of the students responded that they drink one to two nights per week. Twenty-six percent drink three or more nights dur­ing the week, and 14 percent of those polled do not drink alco­hol at all. · 
Sixty-two percent of those questioned have gotten sick at least once due to consumption of alcohol; the remaining 38 percent have never experi­enced alcohol-related sickness. 
Part 4 of 5 
Under the Dome 
• 

&Under the lnlluence 
In addition, the poll showed that 49 percent of Saint Mary's students own a fake I.D., whereas 51 percent do not. 
Last year, Susan Vance, asso­ciate professor of business ad­ministration and economics at Saint Mary's, took her own de­tailed alcohol survey of Saint Mary's students. Vance's inter­est in the subject inspired her to work for a fellowship from the Center for Academic Inno­vation, with which she con­ducted her survey. 
The statistics Vance found surprising were those as­sociated with "second hand drinking," or "the conse­quences of other students' drinking." Her survey showed that 22 percent of students sajd other students' drinking inter­feres with studying. 

Twenty percent said it (sec­ond hand drinking) prevents them from enjoying events like 
football games and concerts; 19 percent felt it "messed up their physical living space." Eleven 
percent said that others' drink­ing makes them feel unsafe. 
But not everyone on the SMC campus drinks. In fact, Vance found that 20 percent of the students she surveyed said they would prefer not to have alco­hol at parties; another 20 per­cent indicated they would like to live in an alcohol free/drug free residence hall. 
"But you've got to translate those percentages into real numbers," Vance said. "That twenty percent is really 300 students. My point is this: That is a huge number of stu­dents who consider themselves abstainers or nondrinkers." 
Vance indicated that these people should know that they, too, have a voice on the SMC campus. 
"It's important to empower 
see ALCOHOL/page 4 
~ IDIItJI *: lholl ft...ll 
....ildt SA~ rWJ 

'' H ft d , h k d d • k?
ow 0 en unna t ewee 0you rln • 
Don't Drink f-2 days 3 or more days 


26o/o 60o/o 14o/o Havewyou ever been. sick due to. alcohol? 

NO .YES 

38o/o 62°/o 
lfiinderage, do you have afake ID? 
~ NO .YES 



100 people polled 


49o/o 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, September 14, 1995 
• INSIDE COLUMN 


A kinder, gentler campus 
Don't call me Emily Post, and please don't confuse me with Miss Manners, but it is time to get on my high horse and preach about etiquette. 
Allow me to begin with one of my biggest pet peeves: elevator eti­


quette. 
Michael O'Hara

Working at The 
Viewpoint Editor 

Observer and being as lazy as I am, I take the elevator quite a lot. I cannot muster the energy for that three story climb to the office, so I ride the elevator. First of all, the eleva­tor in LaFortune has to be one of the slowest around. A person in decent shape could run up and down the stairs three or four times before the elevator makes its ascent from the frrst to the third floor. 
When it finally does arrive, I climb in and prepare·ror' niy journey down. I would be reminded of the Aerosmith song "Love in an Elevator" except for the fact that I am usually in the elevator alone. But when the elevator does fmally make it to the first floor and I attempt to make my exit, I am confronted with ignorance and a lack of courtesy. I can­not make my exit because I am run over by overeager lift riders barging in before I can get out of the elevator. 
This is not proper. The correct way to han­dle the situation is to allow all passengers exiting to leave the elevator before making your entrance. Normally this is no big deal. but there are times when the problem becomes magnified, particularly in LaFortune. Often there are large speakers, food trays, etc. which are going up and down the elevator. When the operators of these dollies attempt to enter the elevator before I am able to exit, I may be crushed against the padded walls (done when large items are being moved) or simply trapped. 
The correct modus operandi in this case is to exit and then hold in the appropriate but­ton so the doors do not close, and the dolly pperator may. enter with minimal difficulty. This is the courteous and polite thing to do. 
Etiquette lesson number two: pedestrian travel. 
Oftentimes I am confronted with another 
headache around campus. Just when I 
thought road traffic on the streets around 
campus was bad, I have to deal with even 
worse traffic congestion; packed hallways 
and busy sidewalks. 
One of the biggest problems I have had in my ventures about campus is hallway hang ups. I am cruising down the hallway until the person in front of me stops, for reasons too mysterious for print. Usually this person feels obligated to have an impromptu conver­sation and force traffic to pile up behind, or worse; to stop, turn around and run into you, then act surprised that anyone was there. 
Proper etiquette in this case is a bit differ­ent, but it is similar to proper highway eti­quette (which few know as well). In the case of a conversation, for instance, the right way to act is to wait for a let-up in traffic and then locate the conversation in an inconspic­uous, out-of-the-way place (stairwells do not qualify). For a turn around occurrence, sim­ply implement a U-turn, swing wide, and mesh into the traffic headed in the opposite direction. 
Now you know how to proceed in a polite 
manner. Go forth and spread kindness and 
think before you act. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o The Observer. 
• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Viewpoint Corrine Doran Christina Cannon Heather Cocks Production 
Spons Heather Dominique Thomas Schlidr Peter Ashmeade Graphics Lab Tech Tom Roland Mike Hungeling 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday c:xcqn during exam and vacation periods. The Observtt is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduaion righa are reserved. 
• WORlD AT A GLANCE 
I00 Rwandans massacred 
KIGALI, Rwanda 
Soldiers massacred more than 100 men, women and children during a hunt through three villages for attack­ers who killed a fellow soldier, a U.N. official said Wednesday. Human rights and military observers went to the villages in northwestern Rwanda, and said they were still trying to determine the exact circumstances of the deaths. The slayings apparently took place over a tO­hour period Monday evening and early Tuesday after an army patrol was ambushed near the border town of Gisenyi, said a U.N. statement. It said an army lieutenant was killed. Residents of neighboring towns said the sol­diers then swept through the villages of Kinama, Kanama and Kayove. The villages are about 10 miles south of Gisenyi, just across the border from refugee camps in Zaire. Most of the victims were shot in the head and their bodies were found inside and outside their homes, said Lee Woodyear, spokesman for the U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights. Another 14 people sur­vived with wounds that appeared to have been made with machetes and clubs. "We consider it a massacre," Woodyear said. But Maj. Wilson Rutayisire, an army spokesman in Kigali, said most of the victims were slain accidentally during frrefights between soldiers and gun­men who were hiding out in the villages. The top U.N. official in Rwanda, Shaharyar Khan, said the United Nations would investigate and press for appropriate pun­ishment. He called the deaths "a serious setback to ef~ forts to convince refugees to return to Rwanda." 
James Brady mildly injured in fall 
WASHINGTON 
James Brady, the former White House press secretary wounded in an assassination attempt on President Reagan, injured his leg and lost some teeth in a fall from his wheelchair. As a result of the fall in a hotel room Monday night, Brady missed an anti­violence symposium in New York, where he and his wife were scheduled 

to speak about gun control. "He took a spill and hurt himself," said Jamie Shor, spokeswoman for the Washington-based Center to Prevent Handgun Violence. "He did hurt his leg and he knocked out a couple of teeth." Brady was treated at a hospital in New York and returned to his home in Washington on Tuesday, Shor said. Brady was shot in the head in the 1981 assassina­tion attempt on Reagan outside a Washington hotel. Brady's wife, Sarah, is chairwoman of the Center to Prevent Handgun Violence, and Brady is a member of the group's board of trustees. 
Heat yields pathetic Pumpkin Crop 
SEYMOUR,Ind. 
The summer's unseasonably warm weather is causing a potential pumpkin problem for this fall: The orange gourds are scarce already, more than a month before Halloween and long before Thanksgiving. The result could mean fewer jack-o-lanterns for the carving and probably higher prices for pumpkins and seasonal breads and pies, growers and industry experts said. In southern and central Indiana, farmers report their pumpkins are maturing early -if at all -with the ripening process spurred on by oppressive heat and humidity during much of August. The problem isn't confmed to Indiana, either. The International Pumpkin Association, based in Califor­nia, said it's heard from pumpkin farmers across the country with big problems this year. The heat is affect­ing the giant pumpkins, too; a farmer in New York had a 975-pound pumpkin burst. He was pretty disappointed. The record for pumpkins is 990 pounds, but the World Pumpkin Confederation lists its record at 836 pounds. 
Various communities around the nation banned these books for the stated reasons. 
Love handles are a health hazard 
BOSTON 

Being even a little bit plump is bad for your health, a major new study of American women found. Health ex­perts have long recognized the hazards of true obesity, but the new research from Harvard Medical School sug­gests that even love handles are a bad thing. Indeed, within reason, it appears that thinner is always better. Federal weight guidelines, which have been criticized as too liberal, say women over age 35 who are 5-foot-5 can safely weigh between 126 and 162 pounds. But the new research suggests that anything over 119 is too much. In fact, at middle age, the average American woman-5­foot-5, between 150 and 160 pounds-runs a 30 per­cent higher risk of death than that of someone her height who weighs less than 120. The lowest death rate is among women who are at least 15 percent below the average weight for people their height. Harvard cau­tioned that the new data should not encourage people to abandon common sense and become anorexic thin. The researchers estimate that weight is to blame for one­quarter of all deaths among middle-aged women. 
Human fat found in dumpster 
RIVERSIDE, Calif. 

There's no law against losing unsightly fat, but prosecutors took offense when someone left two pounds of it in a restaurant trash bin. Stuart Ebert. a hospital employee, was charged Monday with illegally disposing of medical waste. Prosecutors said the waste included human fat scraps from liposuction surgery. Prosecutors allege he tossed the waste in the trash behind a Palm Desert hamburger restaurant on June 20. A former nurse on vacation from Northern California was in the restaurant when she noticed a man remove a big trash bag with medical waste markings from a car and throw it the garbage. She jotted down a license number. Investigators found 30 pounds of bloody gauze, tubes, latex gloves and slices of fatty tissue in the bag. Ebert told authorities that he threw away an ordinary bag of trash and that it came from a plastic surgeon. He could get up to three years in prison and $25,000 in fmes. 


• INDIANA WEATHER • NATIONAl. WEATHER 
Thurmay, Sept. 14 Accu-Weather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The AccuWeather"' forecast for noon, Thursday, Sept. 14_ 
H L EX] &"SJ J:nl 0 ~ § -!) u
... __
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-8TORAIS FLURRIES SNOW ICE CI.OUOY 
AUanta 84 87 Columbus 71 47 Mllw81lkee 70 45 Battlmonl 72 58 Dallas 85 88 New Orleans 88 71 Boston 84 55 Denver 87 53 New Vorl< 71 81

~-~-~~e~ (f • • 
Showers T-storms Rain FlutriiJs SnoW Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Calgary 79 54 Las Vegas 98 71 PhHadelphla 72 80 VIa Asooclaled-Gtap/llcsNM. 0 1995 Al:cuWoa1her, Inc. 
Chicago 72 48 Miami 89 78 Sao Diego 80 85 
Thursday, September 14, 1995 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
• CLOSER LOOK AT••• THE POWER PLANT 
Plant renovations to cause scheduled outages 

Plant emerges, adds duties to accompany expansions 
By KIM SMITH 
News Writer 
At the north end of campus stands the present power plant; h.owever, this plant is not the first to grace this campus. 
In the early days of Notre Dame history, the only build­ings on campus were the Dome, Sorin and Walsh Halls, no addi­tional space was required. 
The former power plant was located directly behind the main building, where the Health Services Center present­ly sits. 
In the 1890s, the old railroad used to ship ice out of St. Mary and St. Joseph lakes, as well as coal in from Chicago to use for heating. 
As Notre Dame started to grow, the new buildings brought with them the need for a larger and more productive heating plant. 
By 1932, the plant was built on its present site. 
In 1952 the plant decided to produce its own electricity; for 12 years the power plant gen­erated its own power. 
Then in the 1960s the Hesburgh Library, and Flanner and Grace towers were built and the power plant began to co-generate its power with pri­vate utility companies. 
During this time, several additions were made to the present power building. 
Brother Borromeo ran the power plant for 42 years; fol­lowing his death in 1979, the present Director of Utilities, John De Lee, assumed control. 
Since 1932, a total of nine ex­pansions have been made to the plant, including the addi­tion of a chiller plant, which is responsible for the air conditioning in both the Mod Quad and DeBartolo class­rooms. 
The power plant provides electrical distribution for the entire campus, as well as all the heat and hot water which we all appreciate. 


The Observer/Katie Kroener Five boilers produce the steam that is used to heat the campus during the winter months. 
By KELLY BROOKS 
News Writer 
Ever wonder what life at Notre Dame would be like without hot showers, heaters, air condition­ing (if you live on Mod Quad), or electricity? 
You may take these basic amenities for grant­ed, but thirty seven men and women work hard at maintaining the power plant at the north end of campus which provides these essentials. 
The original power plant was located behind the administration building. It has since been moved twice as the campus has expanded. The current plant was built in 1932 directly across the street from the lire department and adjacent to Stepan field. 
The power plant burns fuel throughout five boilers which convert such fuels as coal, gas, and oil to steam. The steam, along with hot water, is channeled through an underground network of tunnels to every building on campus, providing them with heat on those cold South Bend days. 
The cooling system works in a similar manner. There are five chillers from which the cold water and air are circulated to the pipes and air condi­tioners on campus. 
The power plant generates 13.7 megawatts at peak capacity. Interestingly enough, notes Director of Utilities John De Lee, this peak often occurs during the first week of school. A lot of machines, such as refrigerators, "get put on line, then the surge dies down. It's also possible that students leave on more lights." This year the campus used 16.5 megawatts as students settled in late August. 
How can a power plant put out more megawatts than its capacity will allow? Notre Dame buys electrical power from Indiana & Michigan Electric. Only forty two to forty three percent of the power used on campus is gen­erated at Notre Dame. 
Like much of the rest of campus, the power plant is also undergoing renovation and up­grading. They are in the process of upgrading their transformers to two and a half times their current capacity. The 34,000 volt breaker sys­tem is being replaced by a 138,000 volt system. 
All the work means more reliable power for students; unfortunately this is accompanied by a small inconvenience. As the conversion gets underway, the power plant will be forced to schedule power outages at specific sites across 
campus. 


The Observer?Katle Kroener 

Two power plant workers double-check guage readings to ensure their accuracy. 
The Notre Dame Power Plant 


Primary·.. Responsibilites: .:-; 
-~·::·.-~ -~:--:":t-==~~. .·: . ·, .·•.' ;;;·-··:::-: ··:.. ·: ~::::· ~>-~·='~:·-.;-:_;_~:~,·:·:.;-.={::._:. ,, 


•To 
provide 125, 70, and 10 p.s.i. of steam 

•To 
provide chilled water for AIC 

•To 
distribute generated and purchased electricity 

•Compressed 
air for pneumatic controls· The VitafStatistics:', ,. · 

•Primary 
fuel used: coal 

•Water 
tower capacity: 500,000 gallons 

•Air 
Conditioning chillers operated from April to October 

•Electric 
power purchased: 138,000 volts 

•Electric 
power distributed from substation: 4,160 volts 

•Two 
generators produced 1000 kilowatts each at 80o/o of capacity 

•Peak 
capacity for generators is 13.7 megawatts 

•16.5 
megawatts of power produced in August, the peak month. 

•42o/o 
of ower used at Notre Dame is roduced here 




page4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 14, 1995 
Abortion  riod negates the question of constitutionality."You cannot say that a law is  Alcohol  amining computing programs and ~e.~ces and discussing the Senate possibil1~y of residence halls go­ 
continued from page 1  unconstitutional unless it pro­vides an undue burden on the  continued from page 1  mg on-hne, will report to thecontinued from page 1 Assistant Provost in charge of  
waiting period, the new law would require women to be given counseling about options other than abortion and about the risks entailed in various abortion procedures. Opponents of the law cite its "mean-spiritedness" as a pri­mary reason for their argu­ment. Maze and Sue Errington, also of Muncie Planned Parenthood, feel that the law will financially hurt some women seeking abortions. A _major part of the argument agamst the constitutionality of the law stems from the lack of abortion services in Indiana. There are only five cities in In­diana that offer these services causing women to travel ali over the state. The clinics be­lieve this puts unnecessary hardship on poorer women and on women from rural areas who do not have easy access to the bigger cities.  women. In this case, the coun­seling and waiting appear to be so that the woman can make a more genuine, informed choice. That, I don't think, would be undue burden," Kommers stat­ed. The counseling aspect of the law is the key to its legitimacy, according to Kommers. If the law called only for a waiting period, it could be argued that the law is merely a means to stop abortion altogether. How­ever, with the addition of the counseling, the 18 hour wait appears to confirm the legality of the law, said Kommers. ~ther local professors agree With Kommers and believe that the temporary restraining order may not hold up in a longer court entanglement. "The fact that a temporary restraining order was issued does not mean a whole lot " said Daniel Conkle, a constit~­ these students and tell thethey don't have to put up wiother people's binge drinkingshe stated, adding that thshould no longer be a "sileminority." In many cases, a night drinking amounts to harmlefun; however, she asserted ththere are occasions when tresults can have much moserious consequences. "The thing that floors me that you can have a kid who responsible 365 days of ty~ar an~ who doesn't normalbmge drmk, but just one nigwhen he or she does choose drink, if that person makes bad decision, he or she can falife and death consequenceAll it takes is one night of bdecision making," she added .. Vance doesn't think studencan afford to be cavalier anmore. She said that this "rigof passage attitude" has to go.  computing with its research. m Senate that it needs "a standing . It will focus on topics includ­th front." mg hardware, printing, support ," "The CLC is seeing students training, ethics and security,ey argue," he said. Since campus and software services. nt media, like The Observer, pre­Mter listening to questions by sent dissenting opinions of the Senate's members, Mc­of Senate members in its next-day Carthy encouraged more input ss coverage of the Student Senate and told the Senate that he and at and Hall Presidents' Council committee member Matzzie he meetings, it is all the more im­would relay the Senate's con­re portant, he said, for the Senate cerns. "We're the students who "to formulate an opinion" be­represent the rest of the stu­is fore presenting it to the CLC. dent body," he said. is This step is important, ac­"These people have our (thehe cording to Kate McShane, Mod students) best intentions in ly Quad senator. "We need to es­mind," Matzzie told the Senate. ht tablish ourselves as liasons be­During the Officer Reports,to tween the student body and the Lawler announced tickets are a administration," she said. on sale for the Greg Louganis ce The Residential Network talk, which will be held Sept. 19 s. Computing Task Force Update at 7:30p.m. at Stepan Center. ad was given by committee mem­In his closing remarksbers Tom Matzzie and Student Patrick urged Senate member~ ts Body Vice President Dennis to be more "pro-active" rather y­McCarthy. than "reactive as to what'sht The committee, which is ex-happening on campus."  
On the other side of the fence, the supporters of the law be­lieve that the new statutes are exactly what the state needs to  tional law professor at Indiana University. What it does mean is that the next set of court hearings will  When Vance conducted hsurvey, she felt students weup to date on alcohol educatioShe said students general er re n. T e 0ly server  
help women make informed  be more in-depth. Most likely,  know what is risky about alc o­ 
decisions. Sue Barr, secretary of Abortion Alternatives In  the Indiana law will be likened to similar ones around the na­ hol and what is not. "We're dealing with some  is now accepting applications for the of  
Muncie (AAIM), stated that  tion. Pennsylvania, Ohio, South  studen ts  
AAIM aims to provide client with information on the risks  Dakota, North Dakota, Missis­sippi and Utah all have bills re­ the nation's brightest on our campuses at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Th following paid position: ey 
and dangers of abortion. In the  quiring waiting periods, which  kno_w the risks of drinking  in  
end, AAIM does think the woman has to make the final decision.  have been upheld in federal court battles. The District Court will recon­ thetr heads, but sometimthose risks don't translate intheir actions," she said.  es to Associate Accent Editor  
Local law professors believe  vene in late October to hear  At the beginning of this ar ti­ 
that opponents of the law face  more information about the  cle, students indicated that th 
an uphill battle in proving that it is unconstitutional.  case before rendering a final decision.  drink because it loosens thinhibitions. But the questi ey eir Please submit one page personal statement to on  
Notre Dame Professor of Law and Government Donald Kom­ The Ball State Daily News  Vance poses is this: Are thoreasons sufficient enough to o se Krista Nannery in 314 LaFortune by 2 p.m. ff­ 
mers stated that the counseling accompanying the waiting pe­ and the Associated Press con­tributed to this article.  set the risks?  9/22. Journalism experience required!  


Holtz 
continued from page 1 
coach's sudden decision to have surgery. Monday, Dr. Jim Moriarity, university physician, announced the delicacy of Holtz's situation demanded attention. 
. "Coach Holtz had been ad-Vised by the physicians that this 
CIN AAT THE SNITE 
presented by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
MON SEPT.IB 
NOSFERATU 
7:00 pm 
FORBIDDEN PLANETo95&) 
9:00pm 
TUE SEPT.I9 
Buster Keaton in 


SHERLOCK,JR. 
Charlie Chaplin in 

THE KID 
9:30pm 
631-7361 ,.r-:------_____..... _____.._. 
~""' 
: WEIRD SEX • OBSESSION • COMIC BOOKS"'~ "A &BEAT filM! rm sure1won,l see A 
ueuer MoVIe This Year." 
·(iooo-.~6dt!IT 
"One or The Ten Best films Of The Year! 
Real funny. Real fieePJ Amazlnt!'' 
FRI 9/15 &SAT 9/16 7:15 &9:45 


.I· 
condition is imminently danger­ous," and that it required "an immediate operation to avoid spinal cord damage and possi­ble paralysis," he said. 
During the Monday press con­ference it was revealed that doctors had settled on 16 pas­sible diagnoses for Holtz 15 being fatal. Holtz had the i6th case . 
The South Bend Tribune con­tributed to this report. 

Power 





Lunches 
Have ~ou ever had a question about the basics of the Catholic faith but you just 
weren t sure who to ask? Ever thought maybe everybody else knows but you? Have you ... Wondered about the sacraments? About what some of the rituals of the Mass are all about? About where to start if you want to read the Bible? 
Answer these questions and more at POWER LUNCHES. WHEN: every Friday from 12:15 til1:05 --come as often as you like. WHERE: Faculty Dining Room (2nd floor, South Dining Hall). WHO:. You. Your friends. Anyone who wants to learn, or wants a "refresher" in 
the basics of the Catholic faith. LUNCH PROVIDED: But not by us --bring your tray upstairs or get a grab 'n go. 


0MPUS 

MINISTRY 

P.S. You'll find out fast --you're not the only one with questions. 
~------------------------------------------------­
Thursday, September 14, 1995 The Observer • NEWS 

Geyer to deliver 'Red Smith' 
Special to The Observer 
Syndicated columnist and author Georgie Anne Geyer will deliver the Red Smith Lecture in Journalism September 20 at 
t h e University of Notre Dame. 
Geyer, who is also a senior fellow at the Annen berg Washington Program in 


C o m munications Policy Studies of Northwestern University, will speak at 7:30 P.M. in the Hes­burgh Library Auditorium. The 
Litle of her lecture, which is open to the public, is "Who 
Killed the Foreign Correspon­dent?" 

The Red Smith Lectureship, sponsored by the Coca-Cola Company, honors the 1927 Notre Dame graduate who be­came one of America's most revered sportswriters. Admin­istered by the Department of the American Studies, the lec­tureship advances the teaching of writing and journalism and recognizes journalists who ex­emplify the profession's highest standards. The lectureship was established in 1983, a year af­ter Smith's death. 
Geyer's column for Universal 
Press Syndicate appears three 
times each week in more than 
120 newspapers across the 
United States, as well as in 
Latin America, Russia, and the 
Middle East. She is also a regu­
lar participant on the PBS pro­
gram, "Washington Week in 
Review." 

Although based in Washing­ton, D.C., Geyer travels widely and frequently to do the re­search and writing for her .columns, magazine articles and books. She has interviewed numerous world leaders and served as a questioner in de­bates involving presidential 
candidates. 

The Observer 
is now hiring for the following position: 
Assistant Systems Manager 
Ifyou are interested in learning more about Macintosh computers and have some proficiency, please contact Sean Gallavan at 631-8839. Freshmen are encouraged to apply. 
Geyer is the author of several books, including her autobiog­raphy, "Buying the Night Flight" (1983), and the ac­claimed biography of Fidel Cas­tro, "Guerilla Prince" (1991). Her most recent book is "Wait­ing for Winter to End," a study of the Central Asian republics, and she is currently completing "Americans No More: The Death of Citizenship in Amer­ica." 
A native of Chicago and for­merly a correspondent for the Chicago Daily News, Geyer has earned a place in the Chicago Journalism Hall of Fame, among many other awards. She has also received honorary degrees from some 20 institu­tions, including Northwestern University and Saint Mary's College. 
In an effort to promote high journalistic standards, The Coca-Cola Company, the world's leading commercial beverage company, supports the visit of the Red Smith Lec­
turer to Notre Dame and also 
underwrites publishing and 
distributing the lecture. The 
publication will be sent to sev­
eral thousand journalists and 
educators in the United States 
and abroad. 
Previous Red Smith Lecturers 
include James Reston, Murray 
Kempton, James Kilpatrick, 
Charles Kuralt, Art Buchwald, 
Robert Maynard, Dave Kin­
dred, and Eugene Roberts, Jr. 

Please Recycle The Observer 



What about after graduation ? ! ? Are you considering all of your options? 

Come to a:  
General Information Session:  Thursday, Sept. 14th, 5  -6 p.m.  
An..d. to the:  
Post-Graduate Volunteer Fair:  Thursday, Sept. 28th, 7  -9 p.m.  
Blanche M. Touhill Chancellor, University of Missouri, St. Louis 


*Information Sessions and the Fair will be held at the CSC* 
~: Stop by the Center to pick up information and resources for a wi.de variety .of .s~rvice-based organizations and programs and to s1gn up for md1V1dual or small-group discussions. 
page 5 


Inflation in check, Fed finds activity on rise 
By MARTIN CRUTSINGER 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Big declines in the cost of gasoline and airline tickets held consumer price inflation to a tiny 0.1 percent last month while the economy showed fresh signs of perking up. 
The good news on inflation, disclosed in the Labor Depart­ment's Consumer Price report, came Wednesday as the Fed­eral Reserve released its latest national survey of economic conditions. 
The Fed survey, compiled from reports from the Fed's 12 regional banks, said construc­tion activity was strengthening in many parts of the country. The Chicago and St. Louis dis­tricts noted strong home sales and Cleveland, Atlanta and San Francisco reported a rebound in nonresidential construction. 
The central bank also noted that a steep slide in manufacturing appeared to be bottoming out and it blamed reports of weakness in retail sales and farming on tempo­rary weather factors. 
Many analysts said the Fed's economic survey, which will be used by policy-makers when they meet Sept. 26, would per­suade the Fed to leave interest rates unchanged despite the fact that investors have pushed stocks to new highs on a belief that further rate cuts are in store. 
On Wednesday, the Dow Jones industrial average closed at a record high for the second straight day, gaining 18.31 to finish at 4,765.52. 
"Fed officials have the econ­omy right about where they want it," said David Wyss, chief financial economist at DRI-Mc­Graw Hill Inc. in Lexington, Mass. "Why would they want to 
loosen when the economy is doing perfectly well right now?" 
Robert Dederick, economic consultant at Northern Trust Co. in Chicago, said the central bank had to be pleased with re­ports showing inflationary pressures abating in response to this spring's economic slow­down. 
That slowdown was engi­neered by the Fed, which through 1994 was boosting in­terest rates in an effort to slow economic growth enough to keep inflation in check without triggering a recession. 
After posting some worri­some increases at the start of the year, eonsumer prices have barely budged in the past three months. The price moderation translates into a 2.9 percent annual rate of increase through the first eight months of this year, hardly different from the 
2.7 percent increase turned in over the last two years. 
"This is more evidence that the Fed's soft landing has done exactly what it was supposed to do, which was rein in inflation­ary pressures," Dederick said. 
Economists believe recent signs show the economy is re­bounding to growth of around 
2.5 percent for the second half of this year, compared to an anemic 1.1 percent rate in the April-June quarter. 
Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin said Wednesday's infla­tion report was "consistent with what we've been seeing ... a remarkable period of time ­you've had solid growth, you've had low inflation." 
Economists noted recent pub­lished comments by Fed offi­cials to the effect that they are satisfied with the current pace of economic activity and not as worried about a recession as they were. 
"As You Wish"





1mporta 
Sweaters, Wall Hangings, Jewelry, Accessories, and Much Morel Guatemala•Peru•Mexico•Nepal•fhallancJ•lncJia•EcuacJor 
Incredible Prices! 
•3"l. 
of profits funds the education of 3 Guatemalan children (up to $1500 for 1995) 

•ANY 
coins tossed in our jar -Greatly Appreciated! They add upl 


Notre Dame  St. Mary'e;  
Nov. 27-Dec.2 ONLYI  September 12 -15  
In front of Haggar • Windy or Rainy Weather • LeMane Hall  

JILF THE CUSHWA CENTER 
, presents 
THE HIBERNIAN LECTURE 
Famine, a Mark ofthe Past and a Change Agent for the Future 
Friday, September 15, 1995 4:15PM Hesburgh Library Lounge 
~---­

page 6 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 14, 1995 



Thakur: French nuclear tests 'violate' treaty 
doubtful that they will have much effect due to their lack of political and economic lever­age. 
The greatest possibility of success, he feels, would come with the introduction of a reso­lution to the General Assembly of the United Nations; many are currently being drafted by separate countries. 
Said Thakur, "Ideally, all testing will be banished," lead­ing to the "upgraded security of all states." 
Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 

By JIM KELLY 
News Writer 
For two democratic countries to revoke their respective am­bassadors is rare, according to Professor Ramesh Thakur. However, France's renewed nuclear testing in the South Pacific prompted this unusual situation between France and Australia, 
In a speech entitled, "Last Bangs Before a Comprehensive Test Ban?: French Nuclear Tests in the South Pacific," Thakur, head of the Peace Re­search Centre at Australian Na­tional University in Canberra, Australia, provided insight into the history of French nuclear testing in the South Pacific, as well as information on the ram­ifications of this procedure and the international response to the recent testing. 
Thakur made clear through the course of his speech his scorn for the French decision to resume testing. 
France's history concerning nuclear testing dates back to its frrst test in 1960, which Thakur described as "ironic," given that this test itself broke the mora­torium on nuclear testing established at the time. 
Last week, in a campaign supported by French President Jacques Chirac, France deto­nated its first in a new series of eight tests to be carried out in the city of Mururoa in the French Polynesia. 
This move, according to Thakur, distinguishes France as "the only power to violate the South Pacific Nuclear-Free Zone," an agreement to stop nuclear testing in this area, ef­fective since 1986. 
He went on to say that this move also represents the "first substantial reversal in nuclear disarmament since the end of the Cold War." 
The government of France justifies its actions by noting the necessity of developing and testing the safety of an inde­pendent French nuclear deter­rent. 
The French also contend that the testings, carried out within French territory, are French business. 
Thakur, however. is pes­simistic about France's actions, stating that they are motivated 

Will (6 Testament 
A Life after Death Comedy 


by 
Fredric Stone 
& 
William Shakespeare 

Date: Sept. I 7 
Time: 7:30 Place: Little Theatre 
-tit­
SAINT 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE
Cost: Students $3.00 
NOTRE DAME, IN 
General $4.00 Call for ticket Info 284-4626 
by "national prestige and sta­tus." 
Thakur also feels that other factors need to be considered, especially the possible envi­ronmental effects of nuclear testing and the sentiment of the indigenous peoples of the South Pacific. 
While Thakur admitted that "there is no conclusive evidence of health or environmental damage" resulting from the nuclear testing, he noted that no comprehensive examination of the site has been permitted. 
Furthermore, he pointed out that there have been cases in the past in which "what was once thought safe really isn't." 
The worst case scenario, states Thakur. is that radiation leakage into the biosphere could occur within five years, contaminating the food chain and causing other harmful ef­fects. 
What reaction has this 

French move sparked among the people who populate the South Pacific? 
"Widespread and deep-seed­ed anger at France" among the overwhelming majority of the population, according to Thakur. 
The Pacific Ocean is one ma­jor reason for this solidarity. 
"A fundamental point to un­derstanding this strength of sentiment is that the Pacific Ocean, as the main means of linking small territories, creates an idea of unity. Seas don't separate-they unite," said Thakur. 
Anti-nuclear sentiment is not limited to people of the South Pacific, however. In fact, even within the country of France, 60 percent of the population is opposed to the testing, Thakur pointed out. 
Although many attempts are being made by the countries of the South Pacific to halt France's plans, Thakur is 

ACCOUNTING CAREERS NIGHT 
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 14 6:00-9:00 P.M. JACC MONOGRAM ROOM 
!FIRMS IN ATTENDENCE] 
AMOCO AMWAY ARTHUR ANDERSEN BAXTER BOO SIEDMAN CARGILL COOPERS & LYBRAND CROWE CHIZEK CS FlRST BOSTON DELOlTTE & TOUCHE 
Sponsored by Beta Alpha Psi 
EDS ERNST & YOUNG GENERAL ELECTRIC KPMG PEAT MARWICK NATIONS BANK NATIONAL FUTURES ASSOCIATION PRICE WATERHOUSE PROCTER & GAMBLE STATE FARM 
Any Questions, call Eric Lorge@ 232-2954 
............·-·..
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•


page 7 

Thursday, September 14, 1995 The Observer • RUSSIAN NEWS 
~~~~~~------------------­
Rocket-propelled grenade hits U.S. Embassy 
By SERGEI SHARGORODSKY 
Associarod Press 
MOSCOW 

A masked attacker fired a rocket-propelled grenade that pierced the thick brick wall of the U.S. Embassy and exploded in an empty office Wednesday. No one was injured in the dar­ing mid-afternoon attack that came at a time of rising anti­American sentiment. 
There was no claim of re­sponsibility, and officials said there was no clear link to grow­ing Hussian criticism of NATO a.irstrikes on Bosnian Serbs. Russian and U.S. spokesmen insisted the attack was an iso­lated incident. 
"It's the act of a lone ma­niac," said a senior Russian se­curity official at the scene, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
The grenade was fired at 4:25 
p.m. from the opposite side of the busy Garden Hing road, crossing 12 lanes of rush-hour traffic. 
It punched through the facade of the mustard-and­white 10-story building on the sixth floor, sending thick smoke swirling. The blast broke two windows and gouged out brick and plaster, leaving a hole and scorching the wall. 
There were no reports of ar­rests, but the lnterfax news agency quoted security officials as saying they had a composite sketch of the attacker, a tall, young man in jeans. 
Embassy spokesman Richard Hoagland called the attack "an isolated act" and said it "will have no impact on the Russian­American relations." 
In Washington, the State De­partment said President Clinton was briefed on the attack, which came just a day after the Kremlin accused NATO of geno­cide against the Bosnian Serbs, Russia's historic allies. 
It also came on the eve of a visit to Moscow by Deputy Sec­retary Strobe Talbott, charged with trying to heal the widening rift between Washington and Moscow. 
Hoagland said the grenade exploded inside a large photo­copying machine, which ab­sorbed most of the shock. The small room was empty at the time, he said. 
"There were no warning 
calls," Hoagland said. "As of 
now, no one has claimed re­
sponsibility." 
A spent grenade launcher, a 
Grenade attack 

Grenade penetrated outer wall and · exploded inside a .. photocopy machine : 1n a small room. The 1 machine absorbed i most of the shock. No one was injured. 
A Russian-made rocket­propelled grenade launcher similar to this one was used. 
Source: Jane's Infantry Wsapons AP/Kar1 Gude 
black ski mask and a glove have been the escape route. grenade's tail littered the pave­were found across the ring Some Russian media reports ment outside the embassy. road, Hoagland said. Police said said the attacker escaped in a "Most likely it was an anti­the launcher was lying inside waiting car. tank grenade," said Moscow an archway leading to a tree-Glass, shrapnel and what Civil Defense commander Col. covered courtyard that may looked like the rocket-propelled Ivan Chigogidze. 

CAMPUS MINISTRY••• 
•••CONSIDERATIONS 
NOTRE DAME, THE CROSS, AND HOPE 
We live in a world where there is suffering and hope. 
Suffering is real. Some suffering is the result of oppression and selfishness and people are at fault. It is remediable. Some suffering is nobody's fault and it remains a mystery. 
Perhaps nothing causes us to re-assess our values and goals, our faith and our education, more than a sudden disappointment, the s'udden death of a loved one, a long struggle with illness or the experience of discrimination. 
Experiences like these can spark us to change the way we look at ourselves and the future. 
Experiences like these present us with a choice: To simply be a person of anger and resignation or to be a person with hope to bring. 
We live in a world where there are both kinds ofsuffering. We live and study at a place devoted to, in various ways, entering into this world with remedies and with hope. 
Notre Dame is called to be a place where people do learn that there is suffering in this world which is the result of sin and injus­tice. Notre Dame is called to be a place where the sources of this kind of suffering are continually exposed. More than that, Notre Dame is to be a place where we commit ourselves to try to be part of the solution, whether that be as a businessperson, a teacher, a scientist, a social worker, a politician, or a priest. Notre Dame is a place of reason, where people are called to use reason, out of faith in God, to remedy suffering that is remediable. 
Notre Dame is also called to be a place where people learn that there is suffering in this world which is a mystery. But, instead of throwing up our hands in resignation, we are called to enter into this world with compassion and with hope. Notre Dame is a place of faith where people are called to enter into this world with hope to bring, a hope based on the cross and the resurrection of Christ. 

The cross is the sign that God suffers with those who suffer unjustly or inexplicably. But, the cross also leads to the resurrec­tion, the great sign that somehow suffering will not have the last word, God will. The cross is the sign of hope. 
Today, Thursday, is the Feast of the Triumph of the Holy Cross and tomorrow, Friday, is the Feast of Our Lady of Sorrows (calls to mind the pain of Mary, the mother of God, her son's suffering, especially his execution). These are important feast days for Holy Cross priests, brothers, and sisters and for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
May these Feast days remind us that suffering is real. Let us re­commit ourselves to entering into this reality with faith and rea­son, with compassion and with remedies. Most of all, let us enter into this world with hope to bring. 
Bob Dowd, C.S.C. 
Saturday Vigil Masses September 16 
Basilica 30 min. after game Rev. John Conley, C.S.C. 
."0:·:·~~~~,:0::·': ': o.:;.~,::;;,:.~.\'c 
= 

:··~;::;~_%:J~1Mt.lit·::. 
Stepan Center 45 min. ~er game Rev. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. 
Sunday Masses at Sacred Heart Basilica September 17 
8:00a.m. Rev. George Wiskirchen, C.S.C. 
10:00 a.m. Rev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. Richard Warner, C.S.C. 
page 8 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 14, 1995 



Marian apparitions explored 
Merryman discusses 
By AMY SIEGEL 
News Writer 
An insightful look at the ap­paritions of the Blessed Mother and their impact on the Catholic Church, past and pre­sent, was presented last night in a lecture entitled "The Blessed Mother and the Signs of the Times" by R. Scott Appleby, associate professor of history and director of the Charles and Margaret Hall Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism. 
The lecture was the latest in a series sponsored by Notre Dame's Campus Ministry. 
Appleby began the speech by surveying the history of Marian apparitions during the past two centuries. He emphasized that interpretations of Mary's ap­pearance have t1ken a serious apocalyptic and eschatological tone in their depiction of the world's current problems. Ap­pleby linked the increasingly apocalyptic devotion to Mary to a certain understanding that the moral order of society has broken down and there is a pervading sense that the Church itself is coming unrav­eled. 
Apparitions of Mary, Appleby was careful to point out, are different from reports of weep­ing icons or moving statues. Apparitions are the real pres­ence of someone or some object not normally within the range of view of the seer; they include some form of communication between the seer and the pres­ence, according to Appleby. 
With that clarification, Ap­
pleby explained how Marian 
apparitions have altered over 
the past two centuries. The 
most important change is that 
apparitions of the Blessed 
Mother were once only of local 
import, but presently they have 
adopted global significance. 
Apparitions of today also occur 
with a regularity that has made 
them public events. Appleby 
stated that masses of pilgrims 
can go to a certain place at a 
prescribed time to witness the 
apparition of the Virgin or wit­
ness the chosen visionaries who 
are able to see Mary. 
"When Mary appears, it is a 
dramatic inbreaking of the su­
pernatural into this world," 
said Appleby. 
He stressed that to the Ameri­
can Catholic, Mary has been es­
pecially important in years of 
crisis, especially during World 
War II. Catholics in America 
proclaimed Christ and Mary 
had sided with the Allies, giving 
the conflict a supernatural 
aspect. 
The threat of expanding com­
munism was also halted due to 
the efforts of Mary, as she 
inspired· individuals to form 
local groups that rapidly grew 
into national organizations, 
such as The Blue Army. This 
created a swell in post-war 
Catholic pride, commented Ap­

•lit -Sllllr 1~12:55, 3:05, 5:10, 7:35, 9:45 
•A 
blla Kill ArllllrllPGl ua,3:38, 5:35, 7:48, 9:50 

•
Til PalllllPG) 1:45,4:15,7:111,1:48 •l*llallPG-13)7:!5,1:35 •Til BIQIIIIIrl CYi lPGl1:31, t35, 515 •A N *'Til CllillPG-13) 1:11,t.Z0,5:41,7:55,1D:10 •LI'IIIIIIIIIIW (R) to0,4:30,7:00,t.30 ~ 81111 (G) 1:D5,3:JD,5;15,7:211,1:20 • ~ JIQIIIIIIIb Hyda(PG-13) 1:15.t.15.5:20.7:30,t.55 


-,.(R) 1:00,11:ZD • ~13) 1:35,3:45,5:45 •1811r Sllllll 2(8) 1:11,3:25,5:38,7:50,10:110 
~1 7J All SEAT$1JI:rOfiE & P!,l 
• tlO PhSSb ~UPW~AI'ER5 f•CCEPTEO 
pleby. 
Appleby also detailed the pa­pal views of apparitions of Mary from the past two cen­turies. As noted by Appleby, Pope John Paul II views Mary as clearly present in the Church's mission. She is the source of traditional piety, a model of feminine devotion to God, and, in her apocalyptic mode, she recalls the demands of morality. It would clearly be a mistake to trivialize the role of Mary, Appleby concluded. 
The current renewed interest in Marian apparitions began in 1985 as the events at Medjorgie inspired many to focus once again on an apocalyptic Mary and her diagnosis of society. This lecture was a part of the continuing series entitled "The Blessed Mother Lectures," sponsored by Campus Ministry. The series began in 1990 when Dolores Tantoco-Stauder became convinced that the Notre Dame student body was undereducated about the work of Mary on Earth. The lectures rely on resources available on campus in the form of profes­sors and clergy to inform and increase student awareness of the significance of Mary to Catholics and all people. 

S H 0 P 


ByNIKI PAUCA News Writer 
The laughter that came from Stapleton Lounge Wednesday afternoon was not due to a comedian. It was the reaction to Professor Mary Ann Merryman's opening statement of her lecture: "There's No Such Thing As Happenstance." 
An opinionated lecture on her "faith journey," and its impact on her life, career, and influence at Saint Mary's was the subject of discussion. 
Her experience with unex­pected occurrences led to the­assertion that all things hap­pen for a reason. 
"I believe what often appears as happenstance is really the hand of God. The 

The Observer/Katie Kroener 
events in my life had a pur­Appleby' (above) spoke about pose," Merryman said. the impact of Marian apparitions Merryman has been a mem­on the Catholic Church. ber of the Saint Mary's com­munity for over eighteen
The Blessed Mother series 
years. Initially, she served as

will continue next month when 
chief accountant for the Holy

the Rev. Nicholas Ayo lectures 
Cross Church Services, fol­

Oct. 9 in the Hesburgh Library 
lowed by a position as a part-
Auditorium. 



'faith journey' 
time professor before becom­ing a full-time professor of accounting twelve years ago. 
A firm believer in things working out the way they are supposed to, Merryman en­courages and supports her students when things do not go according to plan. 
"She's an all around confi­dence builder," said senior accounting major Tracy Kledaisch. "She puts a quote on the board every day that just lifts us up," she added. 
Even when her father passed away two years ago, Merryman retained her faith. There's no such thing as hap­penstance, even when one can't find a clear reason, ac­cording to Merryman. 
"Faith holds a bridge from one world to the next," Merryman said. "The faith (my father) implanted in me is important," she said. 
The Center for Spirituality Fall Lecture Series continues next Wednesday with Patt Crowley, speaking on grace in the workplace in Stapleton Lounge at 12:15 p.m. 

ANN TAYLOR LOFT AND RECEIVE 

%H 

YOUR PURCHASE 
And, when you present this card along with the information below, receive a free Loft cap. 
No purchase necessary. Cap supply is limited. Offers expire 9/30/95. This coupon may be used only once. One cap per customer. 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~--­
Name  
Campus Address  Permanent Address  
City  City  
State  Zip  State  Zip  







VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, September 14, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
john Lucas 
Managing Editor Businesa Manager 
Elizabeth Regan Joseph Riley 

News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ......................)en Mackowiak Sporu Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krisra Nannery SYJtems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor .................................. Rob Finch Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.l@nd.edu Generallnfonnation 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• KEVORKIAN KORNER 
Pop culture's heroes and has-beens: Mortal Kombat vs Mary Worth 
I
've been feeling a little under the firms my feelings. Exhibit A, for exam­beheadings America's youth have given her banged-and-bespectacled hubby, weather lately, what with the New ple, is a picture of Trent Reznor, lead their carpal tunnels to learn to adminis­"Lots of luck, Pete! You just signed York Times denying Notre Dame a top singer for Nine Inch Nails. Glowering in ter come alive. But no such luck. The aboard the 'Billy Boy!'" "I promise ten ranking in any department, and the shadows, but stripped of his trade­Philistines are upon thee, Scorpion -you'll be proud of me!" he mockingly Coach Holtz having spinal problems, and mark squirming bugs and creepy pig­your harpoon will impale no victims replies. Frame one curtain. "You may the team playing so badly against inferi­head machines, this Jewish nerd looks onscreen. seal your promise with a kiss, sir!" or opponents and all. I mean, I know about as threatening as the Notary frame two begins, the wife puckering we don't have a wife-beater depth chart, Public he was no doubt meant to be. GENIUS UNREWARDED up. "Now who's that?" the husband like Nebraska. Still, it's not much con­Now I see that the Red Hot Chili Peppers says, looking dismayed by the "buzz! solation. I've been wheezing lately. I are putting on makeup and wailing But while rock music and video buzz!" lighting bolts come from off­feel ill. Unwell. about death and suffering too. I guess game/movie tie-ins may be stumbling frame. Curtain. Rest assured, tomor­
I can't put my finger on it, but there someone must have forgotten to sepa­in the dark, connoisseurs of pop culture row's Mary Worth will not reveal any­are a number of things that have been rate the brown M&Ms out of their back­need not despair. The forgotten master­thing about today's mystery. Rather, it bothering me, little stage candy dishes. Or perhaps some­piece of American will be its own allego­irritations that 
one sent them comic strips is now ry, challenging the cause earthworm-brunette groupies being carried by the postmodern mind to
'Now I see that the
size veins to bulge when they had South Bend Tribune, piece together its mul­in my forehead ordered strawberry and another, equally Red Hot Chili tiple meanings. and big wavy anxi­blondes. sublime, classic has A nd what of Nancy? 
Josh Peppers are putting on 
ety lines to appear Why, when I was not been restored to its .t-\.since Ernie over my head, like a boy they knew former glory. Yes, make up and wailing Bushmiller's death, Dagwood how to make Mary Worth and Nancy about death and suffer-Nancy had become lit­
Ozersky

Bumstead when he videos. Great men are now available tle different from
ing too. I guess some­
wakes up late. I like Dee Snider and daily. Curtis, Jeffy, P . .J., thought I might Kevin DuBrow I know, I know, you one must have forgotten Calvin, and the rest of share a few with pranced their way don't think much of comics' brat pack.
to separate the brown 
I 
you. across soundstages in spandex leotards, these features. Mary Gone were the "eye­and we were rewarded with the sight of Worth, you say, is M&M's out of their back-lines" leading from YOU CALL THIS A VIDEO? repressive principals and hypocritical banal and crude, indis-stage candy dishes. Nancy to a cupcake, or parents being blasted into walls by their tinguishable to you Aunt Fritzi Ritz' 40s realize some of my older readers may booming guitar chords. Oh, and their from such trailer-park hairdo and pin-up not share my anxiety about this, but I outrageous antics! In one video, Eddy pap as Rex Morgan, glamour. But heaven made a conscientious effort to watch the Grant fell into a floor that turned out to M.D. and Apartment 3-D. And Nancy is has turned back the clock, and Nancy MTV music awards, and I am convinced: be made of water -in slow motion! In only a shadow of its former self. But has returned to its almost .Japanese today's music is just awful. Frank another, a TV set broke in half. Ah, to hark! You have missed the point entire­level of iconic expressiveness. Just Sinatra was right. It is for cretinous see Corey Hart once again -does he ly about Mary Worth. And Nancy's today, I saw Rollo look into the dress-up goons. This year's bands are so still wear his sunglasses at night, I won­hideous modernization project has been box, and, my hand to God, a big black mediocre, I just don't know what to say der? abandoned, and its stylized line exclamation mark appeared over his about them. Hootie and the Blowfish? returned to Bushmillerian purity. head. And the payoffs! You couldn't This is what people think is an exciting A MISSED OPPORTUNITY Have you ever read Mary Worth? invent them if you tried. Nancy is band? So lame is their droning, tedious Each strip has just two boxes, carrying a beyond mere funniness, much as Mary hit that they were forced to rely upon You would think that Paramount real-time conversation. A ten-minute Worth has gone beyond mere drama. sports celebrities to liven the video up, would have known better. Mortal conversation thus takes at least a month They have transcended genre, to make the way dying sitcoms do when they get Kombat has been made into a movie -to express; this comic is not written for contact with the infinite. d'esperate·. TLC, White Zombie, The a PG-13 movie! Now, I ask you: if ever people who are going anyplace. But Well, there you are. They don't call Cranberries: I think all these bands are there was a call for an X-rating, aside from its geological time-scale, me the Stephen Hawking of Viewpoint as boring as Chinese algebra, and they wouldn't you think it would be for each Mary Worth functions as a minia­columnists for nothing. Send some mail. dress foolishly too. If there were any Mortal Kombat? I have it on the best ture one-act absurdist play, its frame­already. new bands of merit coming out, I ask authority that not a single one of that one non-sequiter setting up a meaning­you, why would people be flocking to see game's beloved "fatalities" has made it less expression of dismay on frame two. middle-aged alternative bands like the to the silver screen. Here, one would In today's, for example, a wife (whose Josh Ozersky is a graduate student in Violent Femmes? hope, one would finally get to see the headband keeps the reader from mis­history. He can be reached over e-mail 
A visit to the poster store only con-fireballs, disembowelings, and bloody taking her for Mary Worth herseiO tells at joshua.a. ozersky.l@nd.edu 
• 000NESBURY fLASHBACKS 
WHATHAP­IWSTMY 
PffN/3P7V J08, PCP. Mil<& Y(}()? IA!HY caJWN'TAffORP HAV/3 YW 701<EEPA 
aMeHOMt ? BABY SITTeR. 
·~-----.......' ANY!r10R&. 
'\ 
a/AfTA MINlfT/3. YOU IA/8Re 
R!6HT.
8ABY-SmJN6 IN NW YORI< ?' 
I 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"We are not weak if we 
make proper use of those means which the God of Nature has placed in our power.... The battle, sir, is not to the strong alone; it is to the 
vigilant, the active, the brave." 
-Patrick Henry 

YOU 5AIO YOU HAP YWR OaJN HITTV~&S. 
I 
.~~ 
I 

------~ ~~---------------~--­
r------~--------------~-~--------------------­


VIEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, September 14, 1995 

way in class, though they "act" totally different when anybody" attitude, when the time comes that we do physically and spiritually. And we will have more they are with their friends. We must "act our age". A need someone -either to help with homework or just friends than we can count, because trusting that some­normally shy person might have to to talk -we may be caught short one won't "pull an act" on us is the basis for the truest act boldly to make it across cam-The marvelous thing about a relationships. pus on a football Saturday. Even if community like we have here on A person may want to be like Tom Cruise or Julia he'd rather be studying for exams, campus is that we all depend on Roberts, which is okay. We just have to remember the student body president has to one another. A one-on-one class that what we see in the movies is acting, and life is act concerned when faced with wouldn't be very interesting, the real. We have more "bad hair days" than good ol' Tom complaints from the undergrads same student and professor each would ever admit. And we have to worry about dig­
Julie Ferraro

who elected him. week. A roomful of thinking and ging a couple bucks from the dorm sofa to spend on 
I
How do we act before God? In breathing sophomores, however, lunch-something Julia hasn't done in years. truth, we can't "act" with God. can challenge themselves, each So, when you wake up tomorrow morning and take a The All-knowing sees us stripped other and even the instructor with peek in the mirror (I know I don't dare more than a of all pretenses, knows our vices their differing viewpoints peek) take a second to decide if the day will be spent and virtues down to the extra We mustn't be afraid to appear acting or being real. cookie we ate before bed a week ago. Yet, He doesn't vulnerable, to make mis-hold this against us. He just asks us to be honest. takes. No one is perfect, and it is by "screwing up" f we get into the habit of "acting" a certain way all that we learn. If we can laugh at ourselves -the Julie Ferraro is the secretary of the Freimann Life 
the time, we will begin to believe that's what we real-same way God must chuckle at some of the crazy Science Center. 
• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 


Explaining alcoholism's vicious circle 
I
Dear Editor: The brain is a wonderful pharmacy. It read Cristiane Likely's column in The creates any drug we need. It produces Observer and found the points you its own valium, its own heroin, and the make concerning campus life to be chemicals in alcohol but in just the right extremely relevant. You stated that you amounts so as to ameliorate pain, and don't have the answer to how someone help you deal with an emotional crisis. can become a slave to the "brown bot-(It won't give you an overdose.) But tie." when an alcoholic (or a heroin user) 
That secret I would like to share with uses an outside drug the body shuts ofT you using some of the notes I took three production. years ago when a friend of mine was l AThen you feel sad about something going through treatment at hospital V V or upset, you get back to normal near where I used to live. without reaching for the bottle. Your 
First of all, the human brain is a won-brain can handle it., but the human derful instrument. It's very complex, as being is so complex that an alcoholic are the means it will do whatever it uses to process takes to get that information. 'prom feelings of euphoria drink to get back to 
An alcoholic is , . "normal." considered to be alcoholics Will eventually It's a vicious circle 
genetically "pr~d!s-sober and go back to feeling involving. denial,
posed" to the dis-excuses, lymg, and a ease," that is, the normal. An alcoholic will number of other alcoholic's body eventually learn to abuse that poor behaviors. 
processes alcohol People and cir­~ifferent~ than do mood swing by drinking ir-cumstances are 
E
normal people , , blamed. "If you and is therefore responsibly. didn't nag me I more prone to wouldn't drink." addiction. The only "It's all the boss's cure for the "disease" is abstinence fault." Occasions to drink are looked because there is no known way of forward to by the alcoholic -Friday changing the physiology to process alco-night, football weekends, etc. as the hoi differently, be it through medication desires of the physical body are (adding a stimulus)or surgery (removing transmitted to the psychological con-something harmful}. sciousness. arly in life, most everyone (but not This is what the term "chemical 
everyone) goes to a wedding or a dependency" means, and there's no sim­
party of some sort and experiments with pie way out of it. An alcoholic may 
alcohol-experiences feelings of eupho-drink a six pack per night or only one 
ria, a "mood swing" if you will. From beer per week. They may drink one 
feelings of euphoria they will eventually beer every two weeks. They can only 
sober and go back to feeling normal. An control it temporarily -sooner or later 
alcoholic will eventually learn to abuse it goes out of control. 
that mood swing by drinking ir-One beer becomes a six pack. One 
responsibly. shot becomes a whole fifth. Total absti-
A normal person may overindulge as nence allows the body to eventually go 
well, but the alcoholic will eventually get back to taking care of itself, producing 
iRto trouble with family; friends, etc. its own brain chemicals in the proper 
and will experience feelings of pain be-quantity allowing the individual to work 
cause of their drinking. At first, just as out the glitches, put an end to their bad 
when euphoric, they will go back to habits and be happy again. 
"normal" on their own. To get someone to quit drinking, as 
But eventually, they find themselves you may know, is a major battle. No 
drinking to get back to "normal," and a intellectual argument like this will sur­
lot of problems begin developing in their flee. 
lives. When other things go wrong, fi­
nances, relationships, you name it, they 
end up drinking to feel normal or good RICHARD HUNT 
again. And when things are relatively Senior 
good they drink to feel better. Off-campus 


ACCENT

Thursday, September 14, 1995 page 11 
• CONCERT REVIEW 


By ALEX AGUIRRE 
Music Critic 
S
urprisingly, there were a number of decent bands out on tour this past summer. It's good to have R.E.M. back on tour, Lollapalooza had one of its best lineups since its inception and LIVE made the most of what they have to offer. I spent the summer in Minneapolis, which historically has offered a thriving music scene. Bands like the Replacements, Babes in Toyland, Soul Asylum and Polara, just to n.ume a few, have all grown up in Minneapolis' eclectic music scene. 
Fortunately I was able to attend a few shows. Here's what I thought. 
I wasn't too thrilled to witness the new and improved (approved) Juliana Hatfield. However, I was offered free tickets and decided that it wouldn't be a bad opportunity to experience the his­toric First Avenue. Rather then attend the all ages show I decided I would rub shoulders with the yuppies and attempt to act proper. Well I guess that was a mistake. 
After a strong opening act of Triple Fast Action I easily made my way to the front, within earshot of the former Blake Baby. I repeatedly requested an old 

The Tea Party
the edges of twilight 
EMI Records 
out of five 
**** 

F
ollowing two years of touring, Windsor, Ontario's The Tea Party have released The Edges of Twilight , the follow up to their successful debut Splendor Solis . It is obvious from the first track that this relatively young trio has been influenced heavily by the sounds of the world that they experienced on tour. They incorporated many of these new sounds into this latest release. 
Singer/guitarist Jeff Martin, bassist/keyboardist Stuart Chatwood, and drummer/percussionist Jeff Burrows have embarked on a musical journey around the globe with The Edges ofTwilight.. 
· "The Bazaar" brings with it images of Turkey or the Middle East through its use of harmonium and harp­guitar. "Correspondences" conjures images from all around the world with its soft, melodic tune. Completing the journey is "Coming Home," a song that symbolizes the sense of comfort found upon return with its soft acoustic melodies and serene vocals. 
The Edges of Twilight is, in its entirety, a huge step for a band that has only released one album previous because it is so technically demanding. Martin, with Blake Babies number and was repeated­ly denied. A few adventurous yuppies tried their hand at mushing and crowd surfing only to be quickly quelled by the over qualified bouncers. I decided to give it a shot. 
My attempt was maliciously halted by an undercover bouncer anxious to test his abundance of testosterone and mus­cle. He politely escorted me out, in a headlock. Oh well, I wasn't too disap­pointed as the show was just dragging on as Hatfield played her boring and fll­tered version of power pop. The chords were well rehearsed and each song sounded like a choir girl tactfully singing her praises at mass, a very politically correct performance. Quite a contrast from the critically acclaimed Blake Babies of old, whose incoherent sets and innocent lyrics played off Hatfield's quivery voice to provide an amusingly captivating brand of college rock. Formerly referred to as the queen of indie music, Hatfield is now just another run of the mill Alternative Rock Star. It's too bad. 
It was quite appropriate to endure the powerful mm. "Kids" a few days before witnessing the California punk band, Pennywise. A gathering for the teenage rebels of suburbia en masse, I was quite amused, scared and disgusted. 
As the brave kids lit up cigarette after cigarette I noticed their uniform dress of Stussy t-shirts, baggy jeans and long hair. Even members of the band sported the carefully arranged outfits. These quasi-punk bands like Pennywise, Green Day and the Offspring make a mockery of punk's original intent. Born on the streets of London, Punk was meant to represent an obnoxious rejection of pop­ular culture. But hey this is America, where counter-culture movements equate big business. Perhaps Dead Heads and American Punks alike should join forces for one grand gathering of corporate counter-culture, like another Woodstock or something. 
The summer took a dramatic turn for the best as I was able to catch Silkworm at the 7th Street entry, an adjoining closet of First Avenue. I first saw this band at a subterranean party held here, in the glorious city of South Bend. Once again, Silkworm blew me away with an honest, brutal and truly captivating per­formance. Perfect melodies juxtaposed with roaring guitars and unforgivable vocals. Silkworm offers a vigorous lo-fi sound which lacks the contrived and predictable element of today's alterna­tive heartbreakers. 
I was equally impressed with Dave Grohl's new band, the Foo Fighters. Excuse the inevitable comparison but the Foo Fighters seemed to have picked up where Nirvana left off. Their music doesn't dwell on the Seattle sound, but appears to have elevated the conven­tional metal structures to a higher plateau where metal, punk and melody can exist harmoniously. This is due in large part to the former members of the short lived band, Sunny Day Real Estate who make up the other half of the Foo Fighters. 
Sunny Day Real Estate offered us only one gem, "Diary" which is perhaps one of the best albums since "Smells like Teen Spirit." The precision in musical arrangements from Sunny Day, com­bined with the raw energy of Nirvana complement each other nicely forming a band to be reckoned with. 
In Hatfield and Pennywise I witnessed wasted potential. In Silkworm I wit­nessed indie rock at its finest. In the Foo Fighters I witnessed what was and what could have been. 
Alex Aguirre's music reviews appear every Thursday in Accent. 
his haunting vocals that sound frighteningly familiar to the late Jim Morrison, has proven that he possesses in­credible musical talent through his ability to learn and proficiently play instruments such as the hurdy gurdy and tabla while maintaining his skill on both acoustic and electric guitars. 
Perhaps the best evidence of The Tea Party's advancement from their debut is found in the middle of The Edges of Twilight with "Sister Awake," a song that increases in intensity from its acoustic beginnings to its powerful conclusion. It combines a variety of instruments to emphasize the journey-like nature of this album. 
With The Edges of Twilight , The Tea Party has proven that they are going to be a band of the future, prematurely reaching levels of musical genius that many bands never attain. In fact, only recently have masters Jimmy Page and Robert Plant of Led Zeppelin experimented and recorded with strange instruments similar to those used by Martin, Burrows, and Chatwood on The Edges ofTwilight . 
This is not to say that The Tea Party is even close to being as talented as Page and Plant, however, it does show that they are indeed on the right track with respect to the type of music they produce because they are able to successfully experiment with the obscure. 
Although The Edges ofTwilight is a fantastic album, it does have one shortcoming. Throughout the course of the album, Martin's vocals tend to become monoto­nous, regardless of the fact that the music varies immensely. The trance-like quality of Martin's voice eventually loses its appeal, and because of this, the lyrics also diminish in impact. 
The Edges of Twilight , with its worldly sound, is an unforgettable concoction of blues, rock, and global music that hypnotizes the listener throughout its length. The Tea Party has reached far beyond their expectations with their sophomore release. In doing so, they have created an album that should provide a welcome change from the garage oriented alterna-rock that overpowers today's radio waves. 
-by Christian Stein, music critic 
ED WANTS YOU! 

Accent is looking for music critics. Please submit a sample ofwork to Krista Nannery, Accent Editor, 314 LaFortune, by 2 p.m. Friday, September 22. 
(Ed's waiting.) 

page 12 Thursday, September 14, 1995 

ACC6NT 
• CONCERT REVIEW 


Campus favorites George and the Freeks mix originals and covers in Jazzman,s show 

figuring that eight songs into a set is time enough By KEVIN DOLAN to sit on their hands, they bounced enthusiastically Music Critic about Jazzman's spacious dance floor. The band 
appeared to be relieved at this development, and 
T
uesday night saw one established campus fed off the crowd's newfound energy to play their favorite, George and the Freeks, playing at most rambunctious song yet. On a stage where the Jazzman's, a campus favorite still waiting to band could move, this song would gain quite a bit. happen. Despite a slow start, attendance wise, the "Seabound Soul" introduced minor chords, a Freeks demonstrated the live appeal that has got-rarity, but still hopped along with the Freeks' ten them where they are now with a show featur-usual good humor. The song began to come apart ing mostly originals and a judicious amount of when the band took solos, but a brief percussion cover tunes. solo tied everything together and also justified the 
Lead guitarist Erik Goldschmidt took the band bongo player's presence. When one can hear the into the Dead's "Deal" to open the set, backed up bongos, it's a treat, but the crowd was spared that by the acoustic attack of Doug McKenna and Mark treat for most of the night. "Aeneas Song" was Lang. Goldschmidt played a nice, subtle guitar much tighter, featuring a catchy riff by solo that fit the atmosphere of the stage: seven Goldschmidt and a fme ending. Some line-dancers musicians really can't jump around a lot a were spotted, but were quickly shamed back into Jazzman's. their seats by more conscientious friends. 
"Deal" led into "Gypsy Moths," a slower but still The first set ended with Phish's "Bouncing intense original that's daring enough to feature a Around the Room." Although the band paid key change in the refrain, often a lost art in homage by pogoing happily, no one else seemed to today's punk-dominated scene. McKenna took get it, but when "American Music" started, the over the mike for "Goodbye," giving the song a crowd responded wildly. If such a thing is possible, more emotional take than Goldschmidt's strong the Freeks gave it a stronger reading than the but sometimes unemotional vocals. original, with more tempo and spirit. The key-
The Freeks then strode into the realm of sludge-board was amped way too loud, but no one meisters ·Grand Funk Railroad with a cover of seemed to care. "Captain (Closer To My Home)." By this time, the The second set echoed the first: a big acoustic band appeared to have gotten used to their sound and strong vocal harmony backed by one of cramped accommodations, and looked to be hav-the strongest rhythm sections on campus. "Don't ing fun. "Captain," however, despite the Freeks' Go" evoked the spirit of the Allman Brothers, and fresh take on it, remains a tough song to hear "Borderline" was a chance for the Freeks to twenty years after its birth. By the end of it, they PhotocourtesyotErikGoldschmidt demonstrate their country chops. "Fell," as sounded more like the Dead again, a welcome The members of George and the Freeks take a break with their name-always, was well played, but it should be noted change. sake, alligator George. The band's first CD, Join Us for the Ride, will that "Deer in the Headlights" is not a pleasant 
The looser sound of the Dead segued into, appro-appear in the next few months. image of a guy falling in love. The band opened it priately enough, "I Know You Rider," another up on "Away," with as much energy as they had at Dead standard. Mark Lang stayed on the mike, providing another vocal complement ten o'clock. (ragged) that fit the song well. Lang, McKenna and Goldschmidt broke into a three-Last call was drawing near, so the band closed with "Empty Space," one of the part harmony, reminding the still-growing crowd why they came. Their strong har-strongest originals of the night, and threw in "Bertha" and "Take A Load Off'' to monies justified the next tune, CSN's "Southern Cross." While some neophytes wrap up. Both songs had a lot of "what'cha came for", and the show, overall, insisted on dancing energetically, it was an opportunity for most to light a reverent repeated the message George and the Freeks have been sending, and just as simply: smoke and give the song its due. "Southern Cross" is dangerous territory even for go see them. It's a solid live performance, even on a stage where they can hardly the harmonically gifted, but it really didn't matter, because the Freeks attacked it move. They don't play a flawless show, but it's a lead-pipe cinch you'll never be with the earnestness of songs before. A chord change in the refrain greatly altered bored. the sound of song: whether or not that's an improvement is up to you. 
When the Freeks broke into "Beginnings," the mostly female and largely underage Kevin Dolan's music reviews appear every Thursday in Accent. 
(it was an 18-and-over show) crowd got up and began to (gasp!) dance. Evidently 


Lenny Kravitz 

Circus 
***~ 
out of five 
M
usic has been so squeezed, drained, and copied over the years, that no artist seems to get by these days without borrowing from the past. As a result, the only measure left is whether or npt the artist does it well. Two albums have recently been released by artists who are not only known for borrowing from past musicians, they are known for creating their own unique blend of music for today. 
To Lenny Kravitz, heroes are not born, they earn it. On his latest LP, Circus, his passions still revolve around heroics, God, and women, supported by music based in psychedelia, funk, and folksy pop. Keeping his unspo­ken promise to release an album 

-
in every odd-numbered year, 
Lenny and Love 
Two bands squeeze the past for new anthems 
to provide yet another anti­anthem for the 1990's. The first song on the album as well as the first single, "Rock and Roll is Dead" provides one of those magical thick riffs that you can't get enough of. For those of you who have heard that song and nothing else new from Lenny yet, guess what? It's the best track on the album. 
Other tracks that shine in­clude "Tunnel Vision," a hard­core smash which utilizes the type of guitar work usually re­served for old Red Hot Chili Peppers or Jane's Addiction. In the meantime, "Don't Go and Put a Bullet in Your Head" bor­rows from that old Sly Stone laid-back synthesized-beat style, lyrically as well as musically. 
However, four out of the eleven tracks are blunt religious sermons, rock and gospel which contain good music and vocal touches but are boring beyond belief lyrically. Kravitz has never been known for his lyrics ("He came to fight in a battle/With no guns or money/But just his empty hands... "), but on those four tracks, he really falls flat. 
Love Jones is a band who re­
alize how to take their thoughts, 
desires, hopes, dreams, and 
most importantly, their influ­
ences and combine them all into cent of The Time in their heyday ("The Thing") as well as smooth coffee-sippin' lounge music ("Me"). Love Jones paint vignettes that are sonically pleasing to visualize and extra fun for lip synching. 
Although most of their songs surround themes of loss, regret, or some other method of picking up the pieces, they are still giv­ing off exciting vibes, and it sounds as if the gents in Love Jones wouldn't have it any other way. To Love Jones, anybody who just lives their life is a hero, and doesn't rriusic sound better that way? 
-by Rob Adams, music editor 



Love Jones 

Powerful Pain Relief 
**** 

Hootie and the Blowfish -Cracked Rear View 
5.· White Zombie -Astra-Creep: 2000 Songs 
6. Better Than Ezra -Deluxe 
7. Dangero~s.Minds Sound} ck. , ll 
8. 
Fre d ii'hes Band -Nohh 'fJ~ue 

9. 
r -Frogstomp " 
10. 
ters -Foo Fighters 


II. Blues Traveler -Four 'c:i@;;, 
12. 
Phish -uve. 

13. 
St Show -Show 


Circus fails to achieve the vari­
good music. Their latest 
ety or the crisp touches con­
release, Powerful Pain Relief, is
tained on Are You Gonna Go My 
just what the title suggests. 
Way and Mama Said. 
Through party funk reminis-
Luckily for us, Kravitz decided 

Thursday, September 14, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 



Classifieds 
NOTICES 
WEEKLY· MIDWAY TAVERN 810W4TH MISH. MON THE JAZZ FIRM 7:30-9:30 WED OPEN JAM 9:30 THURS IRISH MUSIC 9 2BLKS S.OF 100 CTA 255-0458 NEED ID 
Humor Artists: HA Want to write, act, or display body parts In sketch comedy? Call Mark 271-1400 mmarino@darwin.cc.nd.edu or Alan at alaser@ 
Newly remodeled Bed and Breakfast located In Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. 5 rooms with private baths, space available for football game wknds. 1-800-418­9487 
QUALITY CHILD CAREIPRESCHOOLING-Loving mom with certificate In early child­hood education and four years of preschool teaching experience has openings for children 1 8 months and older. Farmington Square home. 271-8437. 
If you are going to see : 
THE MAIDS @ SMC this 
Thur/Fri!Sat-Piease bring your 
own cushion to Calloway's 
Bed & bfst. lovely room with 
private bath for two people (219­
272·5989) Parents or friends of 
UNO & St Mary's 
NO @ WASHINGTON • 2 Dbl Rms Ramada Seattle Oct6-7. Brunch for 4 at Dukes on Lake & boat cruise to/from game. No game tkts. $600. Mike (206)575-0711. 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST: MY DAILY (FRANKLIN) 
PLANNER. CALL SCOTI AT 288· 
7261. 
LOST! Losll 
Have you seen my car keys. They 
are GM keys on a unique keychain 
that Is a laminated cardboard 
teardrop advertising INCREDIBLE 
UNIVERSE. 
Have no idea where I lost them, but If you find them call Mike at 631· 4541 . Thanks. 
LOSTI Pair of eyeglasses. 
Gold frames, brown carrying case 
Call Rich at4-2153 
Found: gold lie holder outside 
DeBartolo camp. lab doors. Call 
Harriet at 596-0622 to identify and 
clalm,or lv msg at WSNO (631· 
7342) LOST 
35mm Pentax Camera 
In a Brown & Black Case 
Call4x3371 
$$ tAEWARDI $$ 
Lost a Gold Chain Bracelet of great senlimentalvalue...Piease, if found, call MARl at X296911 :( Thanks. 
Found· 
Set of Keys by Admin. Building. 
Running Shoe Key Chain. 
Chris x1899 
Found: Lady's watch in laundry @ 
St. Michael's. Call Stan@ 631­
8105 to identify. 

WANTED 
I 

Sales Help Needed · Long Distance Service needs Reps to sell to stu­dents and their families. Can be done part time from room or apart­ment. Potential for Immediate com­missions, management bonuses and long term residual income. We offer tremendous value to the cus­tomer and training and support for our Reps. Call Mike at616·521­3620. 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING­
Eam up to $2,000+/month on 
Cruise Ships or Land-Tour compa­
nies. World travel. Seasonal & full· 
lime employment available. No 
experience necessary. For more 
Information call 1-206·634·0468 
ext. C55841 WANTEDII 
Authentic N.D. Stadium seat offered by Athletic Dept. 
I DESPERATELY need to buy one -but they're SOLO OUTI PLEASE HELP MEl $$$11 Call: Chris Carroll (Class Of '91) M·F 8-5cst (708)325-8700 Thanks. 
Part-time nanny needed. $7/hr. 2:30-6:30 any aft. Must drive. Call 257-1411 evens. 
PT/FT-International 
multi-million $ company looking for sports minded, self-motivated, atti­tude-driven Individuals to help expand Northern Indiana territory. Flex hrs., excellent pay, training provided. For interview call277­5289 
RELIABLE STUDENT WHO 
ENJOYS CHILDREN NEEDED ONE THURSDAY MORNING PER MONTH IN CHURCH NURSERY. TRANSPORTATION PROVIDED, $5 HOUR. FIRST DATE: 9/28, 9-11 :30 A.M. CALL 287 ·4002. 
WANTED: An Asst. Cook, Servers, Dishwashers, and a Cleaning per­son. Call the North Village Landing for your interview. 272·8180. 
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­Seasonal & full-lime employment available at National Parks, Forests & Wildlife Preserves. Benefits + bonuses! Cali: 1·206-545-4804 ext. N55841 
Lead Guitarist Looking for Band 
Call Flynn x-1007 
Business oriented men and women. Gain marketing ex­perience and earn $'s at the same time. Fit your schedule part time. call Ron 272-7147 
Grad Student Ticket Line 
Were you? 
Knocked Over? 
Intimidated? 
Poked? 
Or just an observer to the 
drunkenness, arguing, and near 
riot? 
Either this year or last 
Make your voice heard. 
E-mail 
msheliga@ bach.helios.nd.edu 
Local church looking for a pianist 
for choir practice on Wed. evenings 
7-8. 
Call272·8141 • Westminister 
Presby1erian Church. 
Paid position. 


FOR RENT 
2 BORM HOME FOR RENT NEAR CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272-6306 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR NO 
232-2595 
3 BDRM house, 5 min drive to 
NO campus. $150/rm/mon. plus 
utility costs. Call272-7376 
2 BDAMS, USE OF All UTILI· TIES, KITCHEN, WID, $250/MO. QUIET N/HOOD. NEAR CAMPUS. PAUL 232-2794. 
Am available In 3 bdrm home 
$240 inc. utilities. 5-min. drive. 
631-4809 or 232·7175. 
HOME CLOSE TO NO GOOD 
AREA 2773097 
LUXURY LAKE HOUSE AVAIL· ABLE FOR HOME GAME WEEK­ENOS. SLEEPS 10. JACUZZI TUB, STEAM ROOM, FULLY FUR­NISHED. $1,500.00 PER WEEK­END. 30 MIN. FROM CAMPUS. 219·295·6261 DAYS. 616-476· 2459 EVENINGS. ASK FOR LES. 

FOR SALE 
1985 Honda Hatchback 
$1000/Best offer 708·957-1546 
(Chicago) Ask for P.ete. New Tires 
& Brakes. 
2 ROOMS AT ST. MARYS INN 
SEPT.15 & 16 
RACHEL 303-796-8280 
RUST LOVESEAT, CHAIR & OTIOMAN. $200 TAKES All. 291-5160. 
AfT TICKET TO L.A. OCT14-22 $260 o.b.ol Jamiex2498 
Mac LC & Printer StyleWriter 4 MB, 40 MB HO, 11.5 in Color monitor, Excel , Word , ClarisWorks, Hypercard. Asking $ 1 000 or B/0 (232-5236) 
MACINTOSH COMPUTER for sale. Complete system Including printer only $499. Call 1-800-289-5685. 
Packard Bell 486SXCPU 4 megaby1es-color monltor­Wordperfect 6.0-CD ROM­Soundcard-color printer-1 yr. old $1700 256-6982 (before 4:00) 
!!!ALPINE CAR CD PLAYERIII $250 CALL BRENT 273-6183 
11110 SPEED BIKE FOR SALEIII GREAT CONDITION AND ONLY $40; CALL BRENT 273-6183 
TOM PETTY TICKETS DEERE CREEK SEPT. 19 CALL 232-0058 


TICKETS 
A DEVOTED IRISH FAN NEEDS GA'S TO ANY/All HOME/AWAY GAMES. 219-232-0061, 24 HAS. 
TICKET-MART, INC. WANTED GA'S FOR ANY/All 
HOME/AWAY ND GAMES. BUY' SELL 'TRADE (219) 232·0058 • 24 HAS. 
I have tix for allhome games and need 1 GA for BC. Allison @ 284­5073. 
I needone GA for Texas. Call 284· 5022, Ashley. 
I need 2 GA's for Vandy. Please help. Call Stephanie at 284-4336. 
I NEED TIXS TO ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306 
NEED TEXAS GA'S. CALL ALISON 1-800-431·001 0, EXT. 8796. 
Desperately need USC tickets! II 3 GA's or 2 GA's and 1 Student Please call Chris at 288-7843. 
Need 2 Texas GAs. Desperate and Wealthy! Call 1-800-223-2440 Ext.4370 $$$$$$ 
need vanderbilt tickets GA's or married student tix call Dan@ 273-4780 
Need G.A. Tix to NO-Texas. Call Joe at 287-4561 before 10 p.m. 
NEED NO-TEXAS GA OR STUDENT TIX. CALL DAVE 609-779-3876. 
NO DAD NEEDS TEXAS, USC & PURDUE GA'S. 219-422·6088. 
STUDENT OR GA NEEDED FOR BC... WILL PAY LOTS$$$$ CALL4·4828 
I NEED TEXAS AND USC GA'SI PLEASE CALL SUZV AT X3729. 
Need GA's & Student Tx for USC. Call Rich at277-4755 
NEED GA TICKETS FOR TEXAS­NO GAME. Will PAY TOP DOL­LAR. (610)995-9671 
FOR SALE TICKETSIIII 
G.A. S All GAMES ....... 272·72331111111111 
CAN Y'All HELP OUT? NEED TEX TIX-GA OR STDNT TOP DOLLAR PAID CALL KELLI X4044 
BC TICKETS NEEDED. PLEASE CALL KATIE @ 219·271·9856. THANK YOU! 
USC TICKETS NEEDED, STU­DENT OR GA. CALL KATIE AT 219-271-9856. THANK YOU! 
WILL BUY TEXAS TICKETS 817· 738-5109 

DESPERATELY SEEKING 3 GA or student tickets for TEXAS I Call Sarah 273-6875 
Need 2 Vanderbilt GA's Call Ali x4541 
Need 3 GA's for Vandy and 4 for UT-call Jeff X1828 
NEED STUDENT TIXIII VANDY, OSU, and NAVY 233-2289 
need 3 GA's 4 Vand. call x2855 
ALUM NEEDS TEXAS GAs. CALL (313)420-1208 OR (212)250-6513 (DAY ONLY). 
NEED TX STU-TIX FOR NO 
GRAD!! HE'S RICH NOW! JANINE -1549 
I need 2 Vandy GA'sl Call Martha @ X4092 
HELP MElli 
I need 2 Texas GA's 
273-6162 
NEED TICKETS 
4 VANDY G.A.'S 
Call Sean x2153 
PAIR OF MARRIED STUD 
TIX BOOKLETS 4 sale 
call 273.0824 
Need BC or USC GAs -Call Jess 
@ X2785 
NO ALUM NEEDS 214 OSU TIX 
GA'S PREF. CALL MIKE 212-574­
1071 
"Need two BC tixl" Please call Kristin @ 2377 
Need BC & USC GA's & Stud 
Meg or Sue @ 4544 
Need Vandy Texas WA Stud & 
GA's 
Katie or Christy@ 4514 

TEXAS BOY DESPERATELY SEEKING TEXAS TICKETS. PLEASE CALL MIGUEL AT X3336. 
Will trade 1 stud Vandy & Tex for 
2 Navy GAs Ben x3305 
NEED: 
1 GA for Texas and 
1 GAforBC. 
call Christine @ 273-2580 
NEEDED: 
Five tix for Vandy-GA's or Stud's 
Call Mike@ X0610 
Need 4 USC GAs & 2 BC GAs. 
Please call Cheryl x4883 
For Sale: Vandy GA's 
Mark 273-6048 

I have tickets for every home game. I need 2 TEXAS GA's. If you want to trade call277·3609. 
Need Texas GA and Stud. Tix 
Eric 233-4435 
2 married std tik book 4 sale 271­
0783 
I need 2 Navy GA's. 
Call Katie at 273-0122 
2 Stud Tik Bks 
for sale together or separate 
289-2846 anytime 
leave msg 
I NEED USC and OSU GAs! I 
HAVE stud tix for Vandy, BC to 
trade and/or $$1 Amy x4836 
Needed one Vandy ticket 
Call Greg at 3889 
xxxxxxxxxxx 
Need 2BC tickets for a priest 
and friend 
call TIM X3889 
xxxsxxxxxxx 
TRADE I 

2 VANDY and 4 NAVY GAs WILL TRADE FOR ANY TEXAS TIX. KEVIN x3254 
Need B.C. tickets $$$ Kevin x 1233 
......................,;...., ................ 
ATIENTIONIII NEED 4 VANDY GA'S FOR FAMIL Yll BIG $$$$ '"CALL ANNA @273-0962'*' 
Need 2 tickets to Vanderbilt game. Call Cristina at 2475. 
Need 2 tickets for ND vs. Texas. Call Ken, collect at (405)677-8253 
NO Alum has 2 BC GA's to TRADE for USC GA's. Call Brian (717)566­5856. Leave message. 
Need 4 USC GA's Katie X4088 
NEED 8 NAVY GA'S $$$USC stud lie to sell X2620 
I need one Texas stud ticket for friend flying from Texas!! x2522 
Need 2 Student Tlx and 2 GA's for Texas. Call Dominic @ 273-8709 if you can help me out. 
#% $ Std Tix Book for Sale. 277­
7876. $% # 

NEED TXS STD TIX • RON X0648 
need Texas GA's. John 1·7204; 
233-3412 

for sale: 2 student ticket books 
make offer on message. 271-7270 
Need USC GA'S 

1 USC stud. needed 
Matt 288-3823 

FOR SALE: 2 Texas GA's. 
WANTED: 2 USC GA's. 
Will buy sell or tradal 
Call Mike '90 MBA @ 233-9609 
Needed: Two G.A.'s for the Texas game. Call 4-3056. Ask for Dan. 
Need 2 Texas GAs 
and 1 Texas Stud 
-call Chad X3384 

$Need 2 Tex GA's$ 272-9105 
Need Texas & BC Tickets-GA or 
Student -Willing to buy or trade 
Call Matt 273-9650 

WANTED-tickets for U CS,TEXAS 
or NAVY. Please call271-0989, 
also have answering machine. 
SAVE MEl MY HTH WILL KILL 
ME. Need 1 GA or Student ticket 
for Texas. Call Vince 634-1664 
Need 2 Texas GA's. 
Call Alison X2511 

MUST SELL AS OF 9/13 
Two student tix booklets 
Call271·1541,1eave message 
NEED 1·4 GA'S FOR OH STATE. 
CALL BILL@ 219-294-3250. 
2 VANOY GA'S 4 SALE 254-9175 
VANDY STUD TIX 4 SALE 
273-5295 

ND Student needs 4 Texas tickets for family of huge Irish fans driving 12 hrs to see the game!! Please call KERRY @ 634-2925 
TEXAS ' TEXAS ' TEXAS I need 4 TEXAS TIX Student or GA Call 4x3371 and leave message 
Need to sell 1 student Vanderbilt 
ticket. Call288-9158 
TRADE-2 BCNandbit GAs for 2 USC/Texas GAs-Call219·273­8379 
I NEED TXS GA'S MEGAN X3890 
I NEED GA'S MEGAN X3890 GA FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE CALL2719464 OR 2887162 
I HAVE GA TICKETS FOR TEXAS, VANDY AND NAVY .... IF YOU HAVE TICKETS FOR USC AND WANT TO MAKE A TRADE ..... Call Tom at: 4-3893 
HEY I Need Vandy and Texas tickets call239-7959 ask for Mike 
I NEED BC GA'S & STUD TIXI CALL JOHN @ 234-5771 
NEED TEXAS GAs· WILL PAY$$ please call Charlie x2243 
!!@VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY@ii 
Stacy needs Tickets to Vanderbilt! GAs are Ideal. Help her out and she will pay you the big bucks! Call her at219·634-4203 and make her an offer. 
"&'%%$@#(Go Irish!)#@$%%'&" 
Willing to trade two Navy G.A.s for Texas tickets. 
Tom 634-1157 
DESPERATELY NEED B.C. stu· 
dent and GA tickets!! Call Beth at 
273-8334. 
NEED 2 USC GA'S AND 4 TEXAS GA'S: CALL KEVIN 234-3468 
HELP! HELP! HELP! 
I need 2 G.A.'s to ANY game after 
Fall Break. Will pay ANY price! II 
call Scott @ x1105 
$1 need 2 Texas Ga's for my Dad$ $ Call Kate at 2900 
$ 
I need to 2 TX GA'slll 
Call Christy at X2950. 
CA family needs 3 BC GAs. 
Please! 
Call Clara x4826 
1@#$%1 @#$%1 @#$%1 @#$%1@ # 
I NEED 2-4 OH STATE GA'S 
CALL JAY COLLECT @ 
(614) 766-2012 
AFTER 7PM 
1@#$%1@#$%1@#$%1@#$%@# 
NEED 2-PAEFERABLY 4 G.A.'s TO USC. GIVE MATI A CALL AT 4-2120. 
WILL T{'IADE 4 BOSTON COL· LEGE GA'S FOR 4 USC GA'S OR WILL TRADE 2 BOSTON COL· LEGE GA'S FOR 2 USC GA'S. CALL TODD AT 4-1787. 
NEED VANDERBILT GA'S FOR 
FRIENDS FROM HOME. CALL 
JOE AT 4·1846. 
NEED: 1 OR MORE STD TIX 
ANY GAME ESP. TEXAS 
CALLX3232 
ALUM WILL PAY $100 A TICKET 
FOR USC TEXAS OHIO STATE 
WASH ga's PERSONAL USE 
ONLV 2773097 
NEED 2 NAVY GA'S. CALL TOM 
ATX1899. 
Selling Married Stud Booklets 
2324827 
Need 4 GA's for Vanderbilt. 
Will pay big money. 
Call Joe at X1632 
WANTED: 2-3 Texas GAs; will 
trade BC GAs for them. (414)282­
0286 Brian 
I NEED TICKETS!! If you are not using your tlx for the Texas game (Sep.23), please CALL RICK COL· LECT at (210)805-8355, after 7 pm CST. 
AAA 
I really need 2 GA tickets for the Navy Game for my Grandparents coming here. If you can help please call me at 4-1959 
see CLASS I page 14 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, September 14, 1995 
2 sets of married student tickets for SMC Junior Class Car Wash fundraiser, $3 sale. 273-1997 after 5:50pm. per car donations will be accepted. Sunday, Sept 17th, 1-4 p.m. Havican Hall Happy 21st Billl!lllllllll
Class 

THE ORIGINAL GAY/LESBIAN STUDENT parking lot. Buy your tickets now from any 
continued from page 13 
2 married & 1 single stud booklets 4_sale. call2.19-631,6103 
NEED VANDERBILT GA'S AND TEXAS GA'S/ STUDENT TIX CALL AILEEN AT X4033 
Am willing to barter, haggle or provide entertainment for lex tix, 233-4925 David 
ND GRAD NEEDS TIXI LETTERMAN NEEDS 4USC AND 6 TEXAS TIXI WILL PAY $$$$$1 CALL MIKE X1824 
Need 2 good tix for any of the dates 10/21, 10/28, 11/4. (515)486-2517 
Wanted two to four home game tickets. Call 
or write. 
314-731-7604 
Gary Goehl 
PO Box 4152 
Hazelwood MO 63042 
I need 2 GAs tor Texas Please call Kathleen @4843 
For sale: 4 Bk Stud.Tix Call Jane @287-7729 (8-12pm) leave msg , make offer 
Need NAVY student or GA for little sister. Call Carol @ 4-3826 
HELPI Need 1 Texas GA For DADIII Call Pete@ 1728 
Rich Alumni needs GA's to all home games. Call Tom at (312)280-2591, Bill at (312)327-5329, or Greg at (708)253-7997 
PAIR OF MARRIED STD TIX BOOKLET 4 SALE. CALL 271-1715 AFTER 7PM. 
TEXAS**TEXAS..TEXAS Need Texas Tix-Student or GA. Call Jeremy at x4075 
Need GA's to any game Call Katie X1093 
FLOWERS DELIVERED 
~7 DAYS~ 
MARRIED STD TIX BKLTS 4 Sale BO 273-2331 
STUDENT DESPARATELY NEEDS 1 GA OR STUDENT TICKET FOR TEXAS. PLEASE HELP MEl CALL TIM 634-1799 
FOR SALE: 5 MAAR STUD TIX FOR VAND. GREG 2718154 
FOR SALE : 4 BKs Stud Tix Call Jane @287-7729 (8-12pm) or leave msg and make offer 
Need Stud. Tex Tic. Call Christian x3542 
WANTED-TEXAS GA'S OR STUD'S WILL PAY BIG$$$ 815-282-9503 
Student tix for sale I all games 288-8418 
4 SALE: 2 Vandy tix & 1 stud bklt x4-3144 
PERSONAL 
JAZZERCISE 
IT'S A FUN WAY TO GET FIT & STAY THAT WAY. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. CALL 277-0111 FOR MORE INFO. 
Hey, you! I know you're interested in Notre Dame Student Players. Our first meeting of the year is coming up soon. Mark your cal­endars: 
(9/18/95, 6 p.m., Notre Dame Room, LaFortune). 
All are welcome. Keep the faith and love alive. Be a part of the action. I'll see you there. 
HEY KATHRYNIIII 
Good luck tonight-­
Break a leg!!@#$$%"*&* 
Luv your fav roomies-Usa, Jen & Megster 
Flowers, Roses, Balloons, Birthday Cakes, Fruit Baskets, Plush Animals and Gifts 




~asytatGh 
C/ocktower Square 
ALL MAJOR CREDIT 
Phone Answered South Bend CARDS ACCEPTED 24 Hours a Day 
277-1291 or 1-800·328·0206 
51400 US 31 North 

On Notre Dame home footbal 

game weekends: 

OUTDOOR PAVILION 
Enjoy refreshments and watch other games on the BIG SCREEN TV while you wait for your table in our lighted pavilion. 
Pavillion Hours: 3:00p.m. to midnight on Fri. and Sat. Steak &Ale Restaurant 2554 US 31 North* South Rend, IN 46637* 219/277-3766 
SUPPORT GROUP WILL HOST ITS FIRST MEETING THURSDAY, SEPT. 14 AT 7:30PM. CALL THE Q-LINE AT 287-6665 FOR LOCATION. 
S tudboy Dave in search of Extra spicy lover,call me x4010 for X lacy 
Bookstore Basketball X X V 
Don't forget to pick up applications in Student Activities (3rd floor, LaFortune) if you want to be a Commissioner for the 25th Anniversary Bookstore Basketball tourna­ment. Bigger, Better, Televised?? 
Help plan the world's largest outdoor 5­on-5 hoop tournament. 
FEMALES-
Date too DRUNK to go on?? Get a replacement date X3691 REFERENCES-Johanna, Ali & Sabina X4813 
Loath is busy playing Loops 
The American Cancer Society is sponsor­ing a 5K & 10 K Breast Cancer Awareness Run on 9/30 in downtown Mishawaka. If interested call Nicole@ x1318. 
Do you play Magic (M:tg) I'm trying to com­pile a list for playing, • trading, and tournaments. If interested, contact Nick at 234-0783 or E-mail me at Nicholas.Kanaras.1 @ nd.edu 
On the 15th hour of junior ticket waiting, Lou gave to us: 15 football tickets 14 bagpipes blowing 13 grads singing Barry 12 minutes of sleep 11 butts slapping 1 0 marshmallows roasting 9 more cutting line 8 cops-a-creeping 7 blaring boomboxes 6 shiny twizlers 5 knats-a-killed 4 scented candles 3 decks of cards 2 bean bags And 1 can of evergreen Cutter! -5th group (Christine,Jenny,Tom) 

of the junior board members. please. 
HILL STREET SUCKS-ESPECIALLY THE MANHOLE HOUSE BEHIND THE BILL­BOARD 
Saint Mary's faculty, students and others interested in supporting GLND/SMC should attend a meeting Tuesday Sept. 22 at ?p.m. in 306 Haggar. 
College Football Hall of Fame Needs Volunteers Call 235-9999 
didn't see any today, sick one i won't eat a brownie with each meal today 
don't worry, i have the bananas 
Monday showed the world the truth. Green Bay is the greatest in the Central. 
You might shake or stammer or dance like MC Hammer but could that pomp and glamour remind you 
HiJim!lll 

Si vous ~tes franvais et voulez parler votre langue, telephonez-moi. Corrine 4-1553. 

"A terrific, crowd-pleasing comedy! It's a treat!" 
-Janet Maslin,THE NEW YORK TIMES 
"Romantic, charming and engaging!" 
-Kenneth Turan, LOS ANGELES TIMES 
TASTE OF INDIA 
Newly Opened Indian Restaurant! 

Vegetarian and Non-Vegetarian Indian Cuisine 
Lunch Buffet I lam -3 pm $4.95 all you can eat! Dinner 5-9 pm daily Monday-Thursday Open'tilSunsetFriday Closed Saturday 
For Large Group Reservations Call (616) 471 5058 
8938 US Highway 31 
Berrien Springs, MI 

(Across from Andrews University) 
r--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Thursday, September 14, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
Stafford 
continued from page 20 
Trojans, Stafford had a stellar junior campaign, starting six ~ames and playing in all con­Lests. He had 18 catches for 254 yards, pulling in three touchdowns and averaging 14 yards a catch. 
No, StafTord says, its none of these things. Rather, its a matter of the Irish making the best plays where they can. 
"On offense, you have to take what the defense gives you," Stafford says. "As its hap­pened, the defenses we've played have given us chances to throw to Derrick, or the full­backs, or the tight ends." 
If he is frustrated with the state of affairs, Stafford isn't letting it show. 
. "As a receiver. your job is to block and catch," Stafford says. "I just want to be a part of this team, and if my job is blocking right now, then that's what I'll do." 
Still. one has to think Stafford's psyche must be smarting from the lack of in­volvement, but his confidence is still sound. 
"I don't think about not get­ting any catches on a conscious level," StafTord says. "It does­n't bother me. but I'm sure un­consciously I'm thinking about it a little bit. 
"The only time it will bother me is if we're unfortunate enough to lose a game," Stafford admits. "If we win, I'm part of the winning team and I'm fine. But if not I won­der if there was something I could have done to help us win." 
StafTord believes he possesses the talent to help the Irish of­fensively. but right now the most important thing is keeping the team on a winning track. 
"My goal for us now is to win every game. that's more impor­tant than the individual stats," Stafford says. "This week I'd like to give coach Holtz a big win while he's recuperating. I'd like to give him a touch­down, but if I don't get that. I'll be happy to block for a TD." 


Orientation Sessions 

Every Sunday (Beg. Sept. 17) 12:30-2:00 Every Other Thursday (Beg. Sept. 14) 5:30-7:00) 
All participants must complete an orientation session before they can have "open" use of the wall. Advance registration at the Rockne front desk is required and space is limited. 
For more info. call 1-5297 
Vanderbilt admits SEC violations 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE. Tenn. 
Vanderbilt has alerted the Southeastern Conference that it may have violated league rules on the number of coaches in a 
game. 
Strength coach Chris Gaines assisted on the sidelines by signaling plays to the defensive 

unit on the Gaines field during the season opener with Alabama. 
"In the strictest interpreta­tion of the rule, Chris had no business being out there on the field signaling plays into the game," said Vanderbilt athlet­ics director Paul Hoolahan. 
The SEC rule limits the num­ber of coaches to the head coach and nine assistants. 
Hoolahan said he learned of the possible violation from Vanderbilt compliance officer Beth DeBauche. 
Coach Rod Dowhower said he was unaware that having Gaines signal plays was a pos­sible violation, but said one of the assistants will be signaling from now on. 
Vanderbilt next plays at Notre Dame on Saturday. 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 

Attention sophomores!! 
Get involved in 1995-1996 JPW 
The committee for this year's Junior Parent's Weekend is looking for a sophomore chairperson. This is your chance to get involved in one of the most exciting events of junior year. Don't let this opportunity go to waste, apply nowl 
•Applications 
are now available at the LaFortune Information Desk. 

•Applications 
must be returned to 315 LaFortune by September 22nd. 


Globetrotters begin anew after rare loss 
Associated Press 
VIENNA, Austria 
With a . 99989 winning per­centage in their last 8,830 games. what's next for the Harlem Globetrotters? 
Probably another long win­ning streak. 
"The Globetrotters can't wait to get back out on the court to start a new streak," says Man­nie Jackson, onetime player and now chairman and owner of the Harlem Globetrotters. 
That mission begins tonight in Bratislava, Slovakia, when the Globetrotters continue to tour with the first team to beat them in 24 years. 
The Globetrotters had their 8,829-game winning streak snapped Tuesday night in Vi­enna in a 91-85 loss against a team led by NBA great Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, who scored 34 points in a competitive, un­scripted contest. 
It was the Globetrotters' first loss since Jan. 15, 1971, when they were beaten 100-99 by the New Jersey Reds. 
The Globetrotters are touring Europe and are facing Abdul­Jabbar's team in an 11-game series. 
They won the first two games of the tour -91-90 in Zurich, Switzerland, on Friday and 58­52 in Halle, Germany, on Saturday. 
"The guys are really upset about the loss," Globetrotter Reggie "Regulator" Phillips said. 
"After being part of the team for over 300 straight wins, it is a strange feeling to lose a game. But I give credit to Kareem's team." 
The usually slapstick Globe­
trotters used a few gags in the 
first two games of their Euro­
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Women's Lacrosse -First informational meeting will be Sept. 14, in the Montgomery Theater. 1st floor of LaFortune at 7:00 p.m. Any questions call Allison 239-7924 or Erin x2639 
Off-Campus Soccer -Need guys for the Off-Campus Intramural soccer team. Call David Shaw at 277-3203 

Before you b.ve campuo, mak one 1ut DETOUR to... 
lR\SH 
EXI2RESS
-

The place to go for ALL your Nai'RE DAME sporl:swta.r & accessorita! 
LaFortune &u:lent Center (219;'631-8128 
IRISH  Friday  12-9 prn  
EXPRESS HOURS  Saturday  Balli -9prn  
-~  Sunday  9a!D-3prn  

-..........._We Accept both Visa .........-and Master Card 
pean tour, then played a "straight, competitive game" Tuesday night, team spokesman Joyce Szymanski said. 
"There was no confetti toss or any of that other stufT," she said. 
"When the team gets back to the U.S., they'll go back to doing more of that. When Mannie played for the Globe­trotters, that's the way they did it. They'd do some goofy exhibitions and some competi­tive games. That's what he wants to get back to." 
Jackson, who played for the Globetrotters in the 1960s and bought the team last year, has decided to let the team play a number of competitive games with less of the tricks and showmanship that have made the Globetrotters internation­ally famous. 
"We know as we continue to seek strong opponents there is always a chance we can lose," Jackson said. "But if it makes us a better basketball team, we must take the good with the bad. 
"The grear thing about this tour, though, is that every fan attending these games is seeing something special -great bas­ketball and a great show." 
Abdul-Jabbar, who is 48 
years old and last played in the 
NBA in 1989, made 15 of 16 
shots. 
Bo Kimble, a former college 
star who played for a few years 
in the NBA, had 13 points and 
eight rebounds. 
"The Globetrotters are a very 
good basketball team and de­
fine sportsmanship," Abdul­
Jabbar said. 
"They impressed the fans 
and they impressed our team 
with their poise in this loss." 
Irish Outdoors -Irish Out­doors will be holding an infor­mationaVorganizational meet­ing for those interested in be­coming involved with the group. Officers will discuss the nature of the group, upcoming events, ect. In addition, new and continuing members may submit membership sheets and club dues. The meeting will be held in the Montgomery The­ater, 1st floor LaFortune, at 
9:00 p.m., Thursday, Sept. 14. For additional information, contact Chris Lary at 273-3154. 
Climbing Wall Orientations ­All Climbing Wall participants must complete a Climbing Wall Orientation session before they can have "open" use of the wall. Orientations are sched­uled every Sunday (beginning Sept. 17) from 12:30-2:00 and every other Thursday (begin­ning Sept. 14) from 5:30-7:00. Advanced registration at the Rockne front desk for these sessions is required. but space is limited. 
Weight Room -RecSports is sponsoring a free weight room demonstration Thursday Sept. 14 at noon in the Rockne Weight room. Sign in when you get there. 
Rowing Club -There will be a team meeting on Wednesday, September 20 at 7:00 in Rm. 127 Nieuwland. Ploase bring your checkbooks. There will be an organizational meeting for all novice rowers tonight in Rm. 122 in Hayes Healey at 7:00. All interested men and women are welcome to attend . 

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, September 14, 1995 

• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 
Players agree to labor deal Whitaker breaks 
ByRICKGANO That vote was counted Tues­hear players complain later Associated Press day and was overwhelmingly in about the deal. 

record, then Brewers 
favor of keeping the union. A _"We should tell very shortly CHICAGO group led by Michael Jordan whether they continue with 

By HARRY ATKINS thing going. The trend is thatThe NBA is back in business. and Patrick Ewing, both clients their movement," Williams said. Associated Press we get a couple of runs, thenWell, almost. of agent David Falk, led the 
--~~~-----------­
give them right back." 
·Player representatives ·over­movement to decertify. They Williams said the dissidents DETROIT Mike Fetters (0-3), who hadwhelming approved a six-year claimed players could get a actually helped the players get Lou Whitaker provided the converted 21 of 24 save oppor­contract Wednesday, then better deal by dissolving the a better deal because it forced dramatic ending to his special tunities, gave up a leadoff sin­passed the ball to the owners, union and fighting the NBA in them to back to the table. 

day Wednesday. gle to Nevin in the ninth. Johnwho are expected to give their court. Union officials and the league Whitaker's three-run homer Flaherty sacrificed pinch run­approval later in the week. David Odom, an attorney rep­first reached an agreement in the ninth inning lifted Detroit ner Todd Steverson to second,There may still be a few resenting Richmond, said he June 21, and owners approved to a 5-3 victory over the Mil­then Chad Curtis walked aridbumps, however. expected to hear from the it. But the player representa­waukee Brewers, extending the Whitaker hit the first pitch into The vote by player represen­NLRB next week. tives, under pressure from the Tigers' winning streak to five the second deck in right fieldtatives was 25-2 in favor of the "We know there were players Jordan-Ewing group, refused games, matching a season­for his 14th homer of the sea­deal, with a three-quarters vote who voted in favor of not to take a vote when they met high. son.
needed for approval. Boston decertifying who were opposed June 23, and instructed Gour­

It was the 13th loss in 15
and Sacramento cast the dis­to the collective bargaining dine to go back to the bargain­games for the Brewers, whose "I was very excited as Isenting votes during a 35-agreement," he said. "But real­ing table. 

chances for a wild-card berth rounded the bases, but I didn't minute meeting. ly they voted the way they did On Aug. 8, the sides agreed in the AL playoffs are fading. want to do anything to show"We're all smiles today," said because they were afraid all or to a new deal that was slightly Whitaker and Alan Trammell it," Whitaker said. 
the Knicks' Charles Smith, a part of the season would be lost more favorable to the players. 

were playing in their 1,915th "I smiled to myself, with myunion vice president. "It was a pursuant to threats of commis­The provisions to impose a lux­game together, breaking the AL own way of being happy. That'slong, tedious process. A long, sioners (David) Stern and ury tax on teams exceeding the record of 1,914 held by George the way I've alwayslong time waiting to get the Granik. That's illegal coercion salary cap were eliminated. 
Brett and Frank White of the approached playing." 
season started." and that's what Mitch's case is While some loopholes to the Kansas City Royals. Trammell led the stampedeSaid Bulls player rep Steve based on. We think it has cap were closed, some were "What took place today we're from the dugout to congratu­Kerr: "I think the season will merit." added. 

very proud of," Whitaker said. late Whitaker as he crossed the start on time. I guess it's not Richmond said he was disap­"The dissident movement "It's a milestone ... " plate.
quite a done deal. There are a pointed by the outcome. helped our cause tremen­"I've seen that sweet swingfew things to iron out. I want to "We (the dissidents) are dously. Even though it was un­David Hulse homered and many times," Trammell said.

g_et to camp to play." . going to discuss it later today fortunate that we had to air drove in all three Brewers' "He's been a special player." 

The vote clears the way to lift and we'll see what happens," our dirty laundry in public, runs and Phil Nevin homered Dwayne Henry (1-0) pitched athe lockout, which has been in he said after the meeting.... they were really essential in for Detroit. scoreless ninth for the victory. 

place since July 1 and was the We wanted to see more guys getting the kind of agreement "We're stinking the place With two outs in the seventh,NBA's first job action. Training here so they could hear their we wanted," Williams said. 

up," Brewers manager Phil Hulse took a half swing on a 1­camps would open as sched­case." "Michael and Patrick are fine Garner said. "We can't get any-2 count from Brian Maxcy. 
uled Oct. 6 and the season Added union president Buck men. It's unfortunate we would begin on time Nov. 3, if Williams: "Mitch is a dues-pay­couldn't be as united as the the owners approve the deal as ing member and he should baseball players are and move expected. have his say. He may not have together collectively," Williams 

"We will promptly submit the agreed but he voiced his con­said. "But outside of that, I deal to the owners for ratifica­cerns." thought it was very important tion, and we hope to have their Williams said he didn't know at that stage of negotiations approval by Friday afternoon," if dissidents who wanted to de­that those players were NBA deputy commissioner Russ certify would continue their involved." Granik said. "We would be able push. Jordan has said he would Union chief Simon Gourdine to lift the lockout and resume support what the majority lo~k~d !elieved b_ut was a bit\,,-,~ 
normal operations on Monday, voted for but he didn't want to cautious. September 18." 
There are still potential im­pediments, including one from 
""ReeSports
Sacramento's Mitch Richmond. Richmond, who attended Wednesday's meeting, has filed 
a:o~t:l.in.el
a charge with the National La­bor Relations Board question­

I
ing whether players were co­erced during their decertifica­---3·-~ ~«:! 
tion vote in the past two weeks. Faeility Info. • Upeoming El·ents _• Game Delays 

Student Government Presents ... Join your student government at the Aeldhouse Mall before the Pep Rally, Friday, Sept. 15, to get psyched for a victory over Vanderbilt! HOTDOGS & HAMBURGERS FRESH OFF THE GRILL..a ONLY $.50 EACH FOR STUDENTS! . . 4:00 to 6:30 PM OUTSIDE LAFORTUNE . t LIVE MUSICAL ENTERTAINMENT! *Emily LordJ * Elsie's Promise *Reverend Funk  

Thursday, September 14, 1995 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
At Deloitte & Touche, our mission is to consistently exceed the expectations o/ our clients and our people. For you, this means unlimited opportunities to grow, pro­fessionally and personally. So why not join a ftrm that will exceed your expectations? 
Please stop by and see us. 

Thursday, September 14, 1995-Accounting Careers Night 6:00p.m. to 9:00p.m. in the Monogram Room o/ the ]ACC. 

...
Tuesday, October 3, 1995 

Campus Interviews /or /ull time positions. Stop by Career and Placement Services /or more in/ormation. (Reception Monday, October 2 /or those interviewing at 7:00p.m. in the Monogram Room o/ the ]ACC). 
Contact Chris Powell, Recruitment Coordinator, Chicago, at (312) 946-3254 or Mark Chain, National Director o/ Recruiting, at (203) 761-3334 ,fyou have any 

•"
Deloitte& 
questions. 

ToucheLLP 0 


Accounting, Tax, and Consulting Services 
We Listen. We Deliver 
Ocloittc Touchc Tohmatsu lntcmational 

Dcloiltc (1/ Toudtc is an equal opJ.'rlunity finn. We rc<..·ruit, employ, train, compensate, and promote without rc~arc:l to race, cree , color, national oriRin, age, sex, veteran status, or handicaps. 
-----------------------------------~ 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, September 14, 1995 

• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBIU.l 

Lloyd pledges to knock Braves clinch fourth NL title Marino out of game 
Associated Press 

face Schmidt and he homered. Braves added four runs in the 
After that, Schmidt allowed one sixth inning on Mark Lemke's 
DENVER more run and three hits. RBI single off Joe Grabe andBy STEVEN WINE Don Shula said the new rules The Atlanta Braves became The Braves struck for three McGriffs 26th homer off Mike Associated Press had widespread support when the first National League team runs in the second after David Munoz.
approved. They make it illegal to win four straight division ti­Justice drew a leadoff walk Andres Galarraga had an RBI
DAVIE, Fla. for a defensive player to use tles, clinching the East on from Roger Bailey (7-6), who single in the seventh off Atlanta Pittsburgh Steelers line­the crown of his helmet against Wednesday with a 9-7 win over lost for the first time in six reliever Brad Clontz. Jason

backer Greg Lloyd said he'll try a quarterback. Colorado coupled with a loss by starts. Klesko hit a RBI double Bates hit a two-run triple and to knock Dan Marino "into next "The rules don't go into second-place Philadelphia. to right-center field and pinch­Bichette hit a two-run double in week," giving the Miami Dol­effect until they're voted on by Atlanta wonNL West champi­hitter Dwight Smith hit a bloop­the ninth off Mark Wohlers. 
phins one more reason to circle the league membership," Shula onships in 1991, 1992 and er that fell out of Burks' glove Notes: Bailey recorded hisMonday night on their calen­said. "I don't remember any­1993. The Braves moved to the in center for an RBI triple. first RBI in the majors .... Rock­

dar. body voted negatively against NL East last year, and were in Grissom followed with a single ies outfielder Larry Walker re­
That's when Miami and Pitts­them. 

second place behind Montreal that made it 3-0. turned to the starting lineup af­
burgh meet for an early-season "I think all teams were pretty when the strike ended the sea­Burks hit his 14th homer and ter leaving Tuesday's gameshowdown of unbeaten AFC ti­much in favor of the things the 
son in mid-August, and no divi­Bailey hit an RBI single later in with a bruised right shoulder.
tle contenders. league is trying to get done ­sion titles were officially the second, closing Colorado to ... Smith's triple left him fourIn the Dolphins locker room not to take anything away from awarded. 3-2. shy of the Atlanta single-season 

Wednesday, Lloyd's pledge was the nature of the game, but to The Braves' clinching became Justice walked with two outs record of 20 pinch-hits set byviewed as. amusing rather than make it as safe as possible and complete when Philadelphia in the third and scored on Chris Chambliss in 1986....
inflammatory. Linebacker keep players in the game, 

lost 5-4 in Montreal. At the Klesko's double into the right­Schmidt's single in the fourthBryan Cox wrapped his arms rather than on the sidelines." 
time, Atlanta's charter flight field corner. was his first major league hit.
around Marino from behind Cowher said Pittsburgh will from Denver was en route to Blauser hit his 12th homer ... Lemke extended his hittingand said, "Lloyd's going to get continue to play as it has in the Cincinnati, where the Braves leadoff to start the fourth. The streak to 12.
you." past. In the second half of Sun­play this weekend. Marino laughed. day's victory over Houston, the 

Oakland won five consecutive 
"I respect Greg for his style Steelers drew eight defensive AL West titles from 1971-75. 

Please ~ecycle
of play," Marino said. "He's an penalties, including a rough­

With the addition of a wild­
incredible player. I wouldn't ing-the-passer call on Lloyd. card spot in the playoffs, it has expect him or the Steelers to Pittsburgh is tied for the NFL not been determined which 
The Obse~ve~ 
play any other way than 100 lead with 19 penalties. 

team Atlanta will play when the 
mph. That's just part of the During the exhibition season, opening best-of-5 round beginsgame." Lloyd was fined $12,000 for a Oct. 3. Lloyd targeted Marino while hit on Green Bay quarterback The Rockies. who lead the NL 
saying the Steelers refuse to Brett Favre. 

West by one game over Los 
compromise their style of de­''I'm sure the Steelers are go­Angeles, had their team-record You'LL ALWAYS BE A fense in the face of NFL rule ing to come down here and six-game winning streak changes expanding the protec­play hard and tough," Shula stopped. Dante Bichette hit 
STUDENT OF TECHNOLOGY. 
tion of quarterbacks. said, "and hopefully within the 

three doubles for Colorado, in­
"I will try to knock (Martno) rules." 

cluding a two-run drive during
into next week," the All-••;p Shula and his players say a four-run rally in the ninth. linebacker said. "If the officials they respect the Steelers' 

Fred McGriff hit a three-run 
want to call a penalty, so be it. aggressiveness. Even Cox, homer and two doubles and Are we going to go after Miami's most irascible player, 
Ryan Klesko drove in two runs 
Marino? What do you think? declined to take offense at 

with a pair of doubles. Jeff 
yYe are I:tQt gQing to play pas­Lloyd's remarks. Blauser hit a solo home run sive defense." "What's wrong with that?" 
and Marquis Grissom had three 
Steelers coach Bill Cowher Cox said. "Greg is a good guy. hits as the Braves ended their chuckled Wednesday when He's an emotional guy. He's not three-game losing streak. Ellis asked about Lloyd's comments. talking about doing anything il­
Burks homered for the Rockies. 
"Greg just wants to play the legal. Jason Schmidt (2-0) was the game hard," Cowher said. "With all the talk about get­winner, taking over in the sec­Said Steelers linebacker ting fined for hitting quarter­ond inning after starting pitch­
Kevin Greene: "More power to backs -and you see some er Kent Mercker hurt himself. Greg Lloyd." guys pulling up when quarter­
Mercker bruised his left tricep
But while Lloyd dislikes the backs get out of the pocket -I fielding a bunt by Eric Young,NFL's latest attempt to protect look at it as like he's saying it's aggravating a previous injury. 
At Discover Card/Novus Services, you'll always continue to
the quarterback, Miami coach not going to affect his game. Burks was the first batter to 
expand your technical knowledge. Our Information Technology Group !lTG) Is defining and developing new Innovations every day
r--------..------------------------------------, 
that will take our services to a higher level.
1 

As part ofthis exciting team, you'll Join an ambitious group of 
computer science, technology and management Information sys­
tems professionals that demonstrate the ability to think outside 
the box. And you too will have the opportunity to explore your 
options, test your talent and reach your potential at the forefront of 
... EP\~WC3ill ~~ the Industry. HOURS: Monday • 'ThuNday 7 ...act 10 pm • Friday 7 am 10 1 pm • Sldurday 9 am 10 7 pm • Sunday 9 am to 5 pm 
Bring your college spirit and degree In computer science or MIS to Discover Card/Novus services and receive a real career 
assignment. We'll test your knowledge without final examsI 
Discover Card/Novus Services will be at the Industry Day, Sept. 
21 Tans 

19-20; and at Information Night, Monday, Oct. 231n Student Union, Foster Room, 6-Spm.ldress Is business casuall. We look forward to meeting you then 1Equal opportunity employer m/f/d/V.
For $2 
NOTRE DAME 277-1166
....,.. __N.D. 

laB\ 
................o.,.-.
....,.......,....-........,...,... 
L---------------------------~-­

-. 

a~~r~s 
. dame 1nv1tat1onal 
This Friday 

5:00 p.m. -#3 Stanford vs. #9 Vanderbilt 7:30p.m.-#2 NOTRE DAME vs. #19 Michigan State 
This Sunday 

Noon -#2 NOTRE DAME vs. #3 Stanford 2:00p.m. -#19 Michigan State vs. #9 Vanderbilt
(Need we say more.) 

notre dame women's soccer 





Thursday, September 14, 1995 
The Observer • TODAY page 19 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
\·n 13nN T"'o IN<.n.\ ~·· "I'mTVIENT'1-0NE ~E.Ai!.~ 01.-t>,"bE'S, \V<o"'. T JU\T c....·, \)0 f'._,..t> T CM<t ~11.0\rl f\ "\)ELw,-~l!.t>. 
k 'T (A,.-,. G,~~...... A uJ\IP.T l)oE~ 11\1~ ';)p."' ABouT ['(\"\ 'EE"'-1>. T'm 1\ope.co:\< .. fj\1\1'111••1>?.1 f\tfl..· Am 'Il)oo mEt> To 
m1\11-''-'1 t.•~A (Yip.,.,, p~~.e.s~.-""~? t.N"AT tl•Loi'I\E OF m..?? 
/ 
\1~! Dl\ \1-1 \11E C®lL~R'{ 
z.al-lt: ' \F I C~IC.H T\-\1:. Bfi.U.OO~, 11-\£. 'ffiROWER Hfi.S \t) BE~\) O'JER ,6-.N\) \-\OLD 

DILBERT 
I DIDN'T GET T~E. J"OB IN f"\ARK.ETING THE.'< SAY. I ~AVE. NO 1:.¥-.PERIE.NC E.. 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
·--­
TRY INVITING YOURSELF
:1! 
0 
TO f"\EETINGS. NOOODY
~ 
< 
EVER SAYS NO. AND
! 
J: 
< 
THE.Y'RE TOO TIMID TO 
~ 
YOU 5IT DOWN. 

CROSSWORD 
of old 

1 Pester 
Canis Major 61 Doctors' visits 4 Pond dweller 
37 Fury 113 Madrid museum a Stupefied state 
39 World War II 64 Major League 14 Stupefied state 
vessels bird 

15 Big band 40 Normal opening 66 Random trumpeter Hefti sampling
41 Stocking 16lri this place material &&Chemical relative
11 Lobby employee 43 Shoshone 11 ibe 69 Architect
19 Political refugee 44 32-card card 
Saarinen 

20 One of the game 
70-tai

archangels 46Bub 71 They fit in frames
21 Worker's due 47 Claudius l's 72 Visualized 
successor 73157.5°from N23 Prune 

48 Most visibly measurements 
24 Like some 
embarrassed 50 Intuited DOWN

26 Mount of Moses 52--Na Na
26 Two-year-old 1 Old Testament sheep 53 Ten, in combos book 
30 Thai currency 55 Held 2 Not in the dark 3 "Yadig?" 4 Latin name of 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE England 5 Circle of flowers 

6 Title role for Robin Williams 7 Comic singer Sherman a Bad news from a bank 9 Sleep state 1o Seed coat 11 Work a deal 12 Jesus, e.g. 13 When las ecoles close 
18 Design of alternating squares 
The Observer 
~ 
~ 
~ 

Puzzle by Wayne Robert Williams 22 "Sure thing!" 49 Fort Worth sch. 25 Jumping game 51100thofa 
drachma
27 Sphere 54 Areas of
29 Painter's base churches 
31 Give it a go 
56 Disfigures33 Restraint on a 
57 Ferber andrestraint 
O'Brien 34Mimics 
58 Lost calf 35 Derby entry 
36 Subtle change 
Get answers to any three clues 
38 Shade tree 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
42Lummox 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
45 Slugger Williams 

Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. BoxQ  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
D Enclosed is $70 for one academic year  
0  Enclosed is $40 for one semester  

Name __________________________________________ Address ___________________________________ City---------State ____ Zip______ 
DAVE KELLETT YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
THURSI>A Y, SEPTEMBER 14, 1995 
(For your personali1..cd daily Jeane Dixon horoscope. based on your own dale of binh, call 1-900-988-7788. Your phone company will bill you 99 
cents a minute.) IIAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: The winds of change make work much more exciting. New career avenues open up. A once-in-a-life­lime offer comes from oul of the blue. A wise inveslmenl will pay off in December. Tum a hobby into a business early in 1996. Aligning yourself with unconventional people and projects will bring big profits next spring. Singles could find love al first sight CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Padres broadcaster Jerry Coleman, "Lone Ranger" slar Clayton Moore, sculptor Kate Mil· len, dancer Joey Healhenon. ARIES (March 21-April 19): Early morning finds you in a "can do" mood! A close associate offers excellent suggestions. Follow through; higher profits are possible. Review various business tactics before deciding what approach 10 lake wilh a competitor. TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You may be bener off working inde­pendently now. Others are no! in a concilia~ory mood. Tend to your financial interests. A brief shopping trip could nel some incredible buys. Pay your bills on time. GEMINI (May 21-June 20): A favor is repaid. An inside tip helps you make money. You lcnow all the right moves to make in romance. 
Heed your intuition. You can play the role of big brother or sister to perfection. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
SCOTT ADAMS 
DOE5ANY80DY WANT 

You are back on !he right track in business. Behind-the-scenes wheel­ing and dealing can be extremely 
TO 5PL1T A DONUT? 
I'LL JUST TAKE HALF 

profitable. Finish a complex work project A social event puiS you in
AND LEAVE THE REST 
!he limelight 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Storm clouds could be gathering. Try 10 resolve an emotional stand-off before evening. Stretching a tight budge! is no! easy. Be a stickler for details when making a large pur­chase. 
• OF INTEREST 

The Center for Social Concerns is hosting a Uospitality Lunch today, sponsoring the DISMAS house. The event runs from 11:00 A.M. to 1 P.M at a cost of$3. 
Post-Graduate service opportunities will be the topic of a general information session tonight from 5·6 
P.M. at the Center for Social Concerns. 
II MENU···· 
Notre Dame 

North South Corn Dogs BBQ Chicken Spicy Chicken Spinach Quiche Au Gratin Potatoes Mixed Potatoes 
Saint Mary's 

Turkey Parmesan Ginger Pepper Steak 
Brown Rice 
so Tough turkeys, maybe 62 Film "Pursuit of theGraf-" 64 Lubricant 65 Stan of Marvel Comics 6711 needs 

Have something to say? 
refinement 

Use Observer classifieds. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl. 22): Bal­ancing business with pleasure is an an wonh studying. A compromise sets the lone for a marvelous day. Giving in lo your mate's request proves surprisingly ea.~y. 
LIBRA (Sept 23-0ct 22): Your generosity is admirable. Be discreet in private mailers. Keep your per­sonal involvement in a dicey situa­tion under wraps. A desire for change prompt~ you to pursue ambi­tious new plans. 
SCORPIO (Ocl. 23-Nov. 21 ): Concentrate on efficient communi­calion. Long-dislance calls are cost­ly but save valuable lime. A cher­ished career goal moves within reach. Keep in mind !hal you wan! lo build a secure future for your loved ones. 
SAGIITARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You enjoy dealing with the public. Emphasize the benefits to the community thai a new project will bring. Handle domestic chores with dispatch. Household members will cooperate if you appeal 10 their bener nature. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): A goal thai once seemed unreachable is finally anained. You resolve lo aim even higher! Focus on boosting your earning power. A former lover wants 10 rendezvous. Be careful n01 10 jeopardize a cur­rem relationship. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Consult an expert about gelling a bener relum from your investments. A cash now situation will soon improve. You ponder conducting a secret romance. Guard your reputa­tion from !hose who like 10 gossip. Go slow. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Higher-ups admire your keen allen­lion 10 detail. Look for new outlets for your organizational skills. Can you really afford 10 spend a lot of lime and money socializing? Tonight, level wilh comanlic pan­ner. 

• 
• 
SPORTS 
page 20 Thursday, September 14, 1995 
• INTERHALL fOOTBAll 

Interhall battles commence Sunday 
By MIKE DAY terback Jeff Faragher, should ruled out of the picture in the Spons Writer also compete for the division competitive Gold division. 
title. At this point in the year, The long wait is finally over. It's anybody's guess as to coming up with the perfect The moment has arrived. who is the team to beat in the ·welfare system would be eas­After sweating it out on the Blue division. Stanford (4-2 ier than making sense out of 
practice fields for the last last season) and Flanner (3-3) the Blue division. Last season, month, the men and women of are expected to challenge a Siegfried and Off Campus bat­Notre Dame are set to kick off talented Off Campus squad for tled for the top spot all season the Interhall football season the league title this year. long. this Sunday. However, perennial power However, Siegfried lost sev­
In last year's title game at Keenan (3-2) and Grace, last eral key seniors, including star Notre Dame Stadium, Zahm year's most improved team, quarterback Marce McNeill, came up short to Off Campus should also battle for playoff and Off Campus, although the in a tight, hard fought contest. spots. most talented team on paper, This year, Zahm, eager to ad­"It should be a tough race has only been practicing to­vance one step further this again this year." said Keenan gether for the last month. time around, is considered the captain Rob Rolf. "We have a "The defense looks really team to beat in the Gold divi­lot of questions and a lot of strong so far, and the offense sion. work to do, but team morale is will come together," said team 
Quarterback Benji positive and we have a lot of captain Charo Gonzalez. "It's Hammond, defensive/offensive talent at the specialty posi­just a matter of playing to­lineman Kevin McHugh, and tions." gether and committing our­defensive end Pat McDonough Despite struggling last sea­selves to football." return to give Zahm the lead­son, Morrissey (1-3) and Dillon Pasquarella East and Lewis ership and experience it will (0-4) are confident that they both reached the playoffs last take to return to the playoffs. will improve and wreck havoc season and are expected to be 
"Going into the year. our in the wide-open Blue division. even better this year. Lewis, goal is to win it all," said team On the women's side, led by their combination of captain Matt Bundick. "The defending champion Lyons tailback Amy Grenado and defense has always been good, appears to be every bit as quarterback Liz Talarico, may and the offense should help us strong as last year's dominat­be the most improved team in get back there (the title game) ing squad. Senior quarterback Interhall football. 
ence and should challenge for "Although we've had a few
again." Julie Byrd and senior wideout "We've looked good in prac­
the division title this time injuries, we are extremely
Winning the competitive Gold Julie Layden return to give the tice so far, and we are very
around. quick on both sides of the
division will not be a cake preseason favorite the top enthusiastic heading into the
Pangborn running back ball," said Lustig. "Jenn Cobb
walk. Carroll (3-1-1 last year), passing duo in all of Interhall year," said team captain
Trish Sorenson, Walsh tailback (receiver) and Nicole Torrado
Fisher (2-3), and St. Ed's (1-2-football. Debbie Droll. "Togetherness
• Erin Jackobice, and Howard (tailback) are really good and
1) will more than give Zahm a Once again, Lyons will face and familiarity are some of our
quarterback Bridget Lustig are they'll come up big for us."
run for their money. plenty of competition from tal­strengths, and that should help 
three of the top offensive play­Remembering that Lyons
Although short on experi­ented rivals in the Gold divi­us reach our goal of making
ers in the division, and each was lightly regarded prior to
ence, Alumni, led by talented sion. Pangborn, Walsh, and the playoffs." 
give their team the leadership last season, Badin (3-3 last
running back Matt Howard, young and developing Indeed, it's that time of year 
and experience needed to year), Breen Phillips (3-4), and
Mammolenti, and Sorin, squads last season, will benefit again.
overtake Lyons. Cavanaugh (0-6) cannot besparked by 1994 All-Star quar-from a year's worth of experi-

Sports Writer  
Back in the old days of comedy, before Jim  
Carrey took over the world, there were comedy  
duos like Laurel and Hardy,  Abbott and  
Costello, Martin and Lewis. They might not have  
been funny by our standards, but they had a for­ 
mula in common: a straight man and a funny  
guy.  
The funny guy got all the laughs and the lion's  
share of popularity, while the straight man  
worked hard for little more than appreciation.  
If the Notre Dame receiving corps were a com­ 
edy team, Derrick Mayes would certainly be the  
star, while senior Charles Stafford would be the  
straight man.  
In the first two games of the year, Stafford had  
just 16 offensive yards, those coming on a kick  
return.  Not the numbers one would expect from  
last season's second-leading receiver.  
''I'm happy to help the team in any way I can,"  
Stafford says.  "As long as the team is successful  
and winning games, I'm happy."  
Kind words from the fifth-year flanker, who has been used as little more than a decoy this season. Why the lack of offensive action on  The Observer/Mike Ruma ...but since then he hasn't caught a single pass.  
Stafford's side of the field?  
It's not for health reasons.  Stafford was ini­ a problem for me at all."  
The Observer/Mike Ruma During last season's Blue and Gold game, Stafford caught five touch­down passes ....  tially slowed with a shoulder injury earlier in the season, but he says now that the shoulder is no longer a factor. "Its coming along just fine," he said. "Its not  It's not the ghost of a dropped pass last season against USC. Despite that miscue against the see STAFFORD I page 15  

• fOOTBAll 

Stafford content with limited role 
By MEGAN McGRATH 

Football 
vs. Vanderbilt September 16, 1:30 EST 
Volleyball 
at Mortar Board Premiere Sept. 15-16 West Lafayette, Ind. 
Men's Soccer 
at Rutgers Sept. 15/Seton Hall Sept. 17 

• Braves clinch first place Women's Soccer 
see page 18 

vs. Michigan State September 15, 7:30 vs. Stanford September 16, Noon 
• NBA players approve contract 
Cross Country 
see page 16 at Ohio State September 15 
• Vanderbilt admits to violating rules see page 15 

Friday, September 15, 1995 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA 

IRISH ON THE OffENSIVE,. 
m a 

Irish big play may hurt Vandy aggression 

By MIKE NORBUT 
SportS Editor 
For the Notre Dame offense, the key word is focus. 
A lot has happened over the past week. A win over Purdue, a loss of a coach. It's enough to make anyone's head spin. 
"A lot has happened since we walked off that football field in West Lafayette, hut I think our role is to keep things in focus and concentrate on what each one of us can control." interim head coach Bob Darvie said. "We'll be fine." 
They will if they continue what they did against the Boil­ermakers a week ago. They piled up 502 total yards of of­fense and scored touchdowns on a fake reverse pass, a 30­yard screen pass and an explo­sive Randy. Kinder run. 
The big plays they cashed in on last week were the same ones that were missing for the better part of last year. 
But it could have been a little easier because of Purdue's sieve they called a defense. You can bet the same won't happen with Vanderbilt. 
The Commodores return ten starters to their defense, one that allowed just 327 yards to Alabama two weeks ago. But the Crimson Tide broke through with 23 fourth quarter points to negate a chance at the upset. 
"They took Alabama to the fourth quarter," Davie said. "The players will be impressed when they see the film." 
But they may be scared when they see them on the field. 
The Commodores are a de­fense after Davie's own heart. They attack by blitzing, which may cause problems to the Irish. Ron Powlus was only sacked once by Purdue, despite the fact that Rick Kaczenski stepped in to start at center just before the game. Jeremy Akers, who started at left guard at the beginning of the season, will be out for another three or four weeks. 
Vanderbilt's defensive line carries the load, led by James Manley at defensive tackle and Jay Stallworth at defensive end. Both had 14 tackles against Al­abama. 
What the Tide probably best exposed by squeaking by the Commodores is that they are susceptible to the big play. 23 fourth quarter points proved that the quick strike could hurt. 
Derrick Mayes could have a field day against a young Van­derbilt secondary, which con­sists of two sophomores and two juniors. 
That is, if Powlus. and of­fensive coordinator Dave Roberts don't have tunnel vi­sion like they did against Northwestern. Emmett Mosley and Scott Sollmann got in the act against Purdue. 

The Observer/ Kevin Klau The word focus shouldn't be Ron Powlus should have a big day if he gets protection from his line. taken that literally. 
CO MODORES ON THE OffENSIVE~ 
s m 

Irish hope to slow Purdue ground game 
By MIKE NORBUT 
Sports Editor 
Blitz. It's Bob Davie's defining word. 

With Lou Holtz gone, maybe he'll do more of it. 
Vanderbilt coach Rod Dowhower thinks he will. 
"I'm sure he might have some deep-seated things he wants to do that he hasn't been able to," Dowhower said. But don't count on it. 
"Our personnel right now is not exactly what it was at Texas A&M to do these type of things," the defensive coordinator and interim coach said. "And the bottom line is I want to win football games and put these play­ers in a situation to succeed." 
That means not putting some of the members of the secondary in man-coverage situations, which has burned them in the past two games. 
But this week's aerial assault from Vanderbilt should not be more than an afterthought. The Commodores will look to junior running back Jermaine Johnson to carry the load. "They're probably the quickest team we've played," 
Jermaine Johnson 

Davie said. "They have good size and run a little bit better than what I thought." 
With a beleaguered defensive line that has seen Darnell Autry and Mike Alstott each gain over 100 yards the past two weeks, Davie might be seeing Johnson in his sleep at night. 
The junior averaged 7.1 yards a carry against Alabama two weeks ago, including a 7 5-yard burst for a touchdown. 
But if the Irish linebackers can keep him under wraps, they might find themselves in the catbird seat. 
Ronnie Gordon and Damian Allen split the time at quarterback against the Crimson Tide, both to no posi­tive effect. Gordon was picked off twice; Allen saw three passes float into Alabama defenders' hands. 
The Irish secondary seemed to come into its own against Purdue behind Shawn Wooden's two intercep­tions, but they were close to losing the game in the waning seconds. 
Probably the biggest worry on the mind of Notre Dame coaches will be how they respond to coach Lou Holtz's absence. One big defensive play could rally the 
VS. By Mike Norbut 
Notre Dame Linebackers 
V
anderbilt loves to run. In fact they make a living out of it. 
The Irish have had problems in the past two games stopping run­ning backs. Northwestern's Darnell Autry picked up 165 yards in the first week. Purdue's Mike Alstott ran up 118last week. 
Defending the ground game has been a problem for Notre Dame fallen on the shoulders of the line­backing core. 

Led by Lyron Cobbins, the unit has been the strongest on the Irish defense, and they've shown the most depth. Freshmen Bobbie Howard and Kory Minor have both started a game this season, and should see considerable time on Saturday. 
The speed of Bert Berry will be 
this year, mainly because of an an effective tool in stopping
The Observer/Kevin Klau 

undersized defensive line. The Johnson, who can break one any­Photo courtesy of Vanderbilt Sports Information 
The Irish linebackers will be busy Saturday. 

Johnson will be looking for holes in the line. 
bulk of the tackling duties have time he touches tve ball. 
page 3 
I 
• • •JERMAINE JOHNSON 
Photo courtesy of Vanderbilt Sports Information 




T
his Saturday will bring back memo­ries for Notre Dame alumni of the Gerry Faust era. In every game and every offensive play there was one agonizing and defining aspect, Allen Pincket. Or more appropriately, Allen Pincket up the 
middle. 
the second play 
Vanderbilt of the game and has been tak­75 yards later ing a page they were up 7-0. from Faust's Considering coaching man­how well the ual. Their Irish bottled up 
problem is that Johnson Darnell Autry 
they have no choice in the manner. Their quarterbacks threw for an embar­rassing 42 percent com­pletion rate last season and they are on fire this season at around 33 percent. They have no other choice than to hand the ball to Jermaine Johnson. 
While it may be obvi­ous, the Irish will sadly learn that it is also effective. Just ask AI­abama. Johnson racked up 121 yards on 16 car­ries against the vaunted Crimson Tide defense. 
"Jermaine Johnson legitimately runs 4.25 in the forty," Irish coach Dave Hoberts stated. "lie is said to be the fastest athlete in the Southeast Conference." 
Johnson will be the only real backfield threat that the Com­modores possess. In many cases they will line up in the one back set to widen the field for him. And if he breaks the line of scrimmage it is all over. Against Alabama he was able to 
break through on 
and the Purdue duo of Mike Alstott and Corey Rogers, there ~ reason for concern. The Irish haven't faced a true speed running back yet this season. Whenever Autry, Alstott or Rogers broke through the line of scrimmage they were able to tackle them off of pursuit. But even with the new speed in the Irish defense, will it be enough to corral a Raghib Ismail clone? 
When the Commodores go to the air, Johnson is no longer a concern. Last season, he failed to catch a single pass. This season he only has one reception, resulting in a four yard loss. 
--Thomas Schlidt 
The Observer • IRISH EXTRA

-r• ,·a··.. . ''ii#J ... _,; .
·-, ••e:.reaauDWn
Ap~iitfo~ by j,Ositiotf!Jdk··· a;tWho hokls the advantage 
,<.. '' 

..... o· 
. . .. ·Ql!arterba~k$ .. ·. · 
......•

-~:.llllr·. ·"''.'··--· ·. --:·"··· . . 
·. -.. . . . . . 

R9n ~owlusl$ Foming 6£fafo~t' t6~.c~#9~,flJ?¢i,. .. formance ag<Uns{Purdue. Damian All~n and ' :. Ronnie Gordon combined for five ~hterceptiollS; .....·.. 
·~~RunningBacksD 
. .. . . 

JermaiJ1e]oh,oson Is the fastest.m;m inthe SJ.!C. . 
But he doesn'thave a counte~part. Randy Kinder 
•and Autry Denson have Mar{;'Edwards. .. 

II .The C:pmmod?pes. ~re ~~re c6rnforta91~ as ~ run~ . 
,., ning team. Five JJ:iter~pfioos again~t Mab~a can ... , artestt?that. Look fot Qen~ickMayes ~o _pe~orm. \ 
IIOtTensiv¢Line.O' 
With Mi.ke Rosenthal gettingsome timeandper~ forming well, depth is added to the.Irish front. 
.Vandy's line ~sa good run-blocking fea~n.~> ·

D Defensive Line~~ 
}acmes Manley ;tnd Jay Stallworth are Vandy's lead'­ing tacklers. The Irish can't: say thatabout their under~ized d~£ensive line. ··· 
~~ Linebackers D 
The most solid unit on theirish defense, bur they'll have their hands full.~ha:ling.aro!lnd Johnson; Vamly's 'backers at~-experienced.
a:.;•..~Secon.dary.
.. ·· 
·-·~····_·:······.·.··.· 

,Much maligne~ in·the pasr, tl}e.Nqtre Da!n~ set:~ ondary collectedthree pic~ at Purdue• Yanqy'$ · unitis young h~t very experienced. . · . 
~~ ~pecmlTeam~ 0 

The return game is comingalong for theIrish, bur they have problems kicking field goals. The · · Commodores have a norinal unit, not exceptional.
D ~
Coaching 

Bob Davie is in his head coachingdebut ofsorts. Rod Dowhower almost beat Alabama, and he'll have his team ready for an upset.. 
Friday, Septmber 15, 1995 
I 

• • •JAMES MANLEY 

Photo courtesy of Vanderbilt Sports Information 

D
on't be mistaken Of the five turnovers, by the black and four were interceptions. gold uniforms. The main reason for Purdue isn't back for a the defensive domi­re-match, and sadly, nance has been the play neither is their inferior of the Commodore de­defense. While fensive line, and in par­Purdue's potent offense ticular senior defensive carried their defense, tackle James Manley. Vanderbilt relics on At 6-3 and 291 defense to keep their pounds, he is ahuman boat afloat. bulldozer. Size aside, 
One of the 
his scariest pre-season attribute is his goals for the 4.9 speed in the Commodores forty. This im­was to install a pressive contri­more aggres­bution could sive 4-3 de­provide a prob­
fense that com-• 
lem to the in­
Manley

plimented their jured and young 
great size and speed. That's exactly what they did. 
"They're probably the quickest team we'll play." Irish coach Bob Davie said. "They have good size and run a lit­tle bit better than what I had thought. 
"They're a press and attack type defense. 1 look at the speed they have, and they're going to do different things." 
Facing SEC rival Alabama two weeks ago, the defense 
D 
showed tremendous play making ability and held a Commodore lead until the final minutes.
• Overall 
A lead that the 
defense was responsible One big play~ill give Notre Dame the emotion · for as they forced five 
Crimson Tide turnovers.
they need towin. .,Mike No.rbut 
offensive line. As the right tackle, Manley will most likely go 
against  both  Hyan  
Leahy  and  Mike  
Doughty.  

Manley also gives the Commodores some experience and consis­tency, having started 34 games in three years. 
During his junior campaign Manley was third best among SEC interior linemen with 65 tackles, and ran through opposing offen­sive lines for a team high nine sacks. Three of those sacks came against SEC foe Florida. 
As a sophomore in 1993, he collected a team defensive line best 65 tackles. 
--Thomas Schlidt 

Friday, September 15, 1995 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA page 4 
COMMODORES 
• • •  
2  3  4  T  PASSING  Comp  All  Pet  Yda  TO  lnt  Lg  PUNTING  No  Avg  Bk  Lg  
7  3  9  6  25  Allen  8  23  34.6  87  1  3  40  Marin anger  8  42.9  0  57  
7  3  0  23  33  Gordon  5  16  31.3  9  0  2  9  
KICKOFF RETURNS  No  Avg  TO  Lg  
RECEIVING  Rae  Yds  Avg  TO  Lg  Deese  5  21.2  0  26  
TEAM STATS  vu  Opp  Tomlchek  5  28  5.6  0  11  Chavous  2  18.5  0  25  
First downs  10  19  Ware  3  50  16.7  0  40  
Total yards  208  372  Todd  2  17  8.5  0  9  PUNT RETURNS  No  Avg  TO  Lg  
Total yards per game  208.0  372.0  Baker  8  8.0  1  8  Chavous  4  3.3  0  7  
Total offensive plays  62  85  Deese  -3  -3.0  0  -3  
Avg. yards par play  3.35  4.38  Johnson  -4  -4.0  0  -4  INTERCEPTIONS  No  Yds  TO  Lg  
Rushing yards  112  125  Manley  1  45  0  45  
Rushing yards per game  112.0  125.0  Finklin  1  36  0  36  
Rushing plays  23  54  ALL-PURPOSE  Rush  Rae  Ret  Tot  Avg  Stuckey  1  19  0  19  
Passing yards  96  247  Johnson  114  -4  0  110  110.0  Azama  1  2  0  2  
Passing yards par game  96.0  247.0  Deese  0  -3  106  103  103.0  
Passes completed  13  18  Ware  0  50  0  50  50.0  
Passes attempted  39  31  Chavous  0  0  50  50  50.0  DEFENSE  T  A  Tot  FC  FR  PBU  Sac  
Passes intercepted  5  4  Tomichek  0  28  0  28  28.0  Manley  5  9  14  0  0  0  0  
Fumbles I Fumbles lost  1/1  3/1  Todd  0  17  0  17  17.0  Stallworth  5  9  14  1  0  0  1  
Penalties-Penalty yards  7-55  11-89  Baker  0  8  0  8  8.0  Stuckey  9  4  13  0  0  0  0  
Third down conversions  1-13  4-16  M.A. Williams  7  5  12  0  0  0  0  
Percentage  7.7  25.0  Duncan  7  4  11  0  0  1  1  
Fourth down conversions  Q-1  2-4  SCORING  TO  2XP  1XP  FG  Sal  Pis  Boykin  5  6  11  0  0  0  0  
Venner  0  0  1-2  2  0  7  B. DeGraffenreid  3  7  10  0  0  1  0  
Baker  1  0  0·0  0  0  6  Schuckman  1  7  8  0  0  0  0  
Yda/Gm  No  Yds  Avg  TO  Lg  Johnson  1  0  0-0  0  0  6  Vance  5  3  8  0  1  0  0  
114.0  16  121  7.1  1  75  Vance  1  0  0-0  0  0  6  Jefcoat  3  2  5  0  0  0  1  
0.0  3  0  0.0  0  1  Chavous  5  0  5  0  0  0  0  
-1.0  1  -1  -1.0  0  -1  FIELD GOALS  Q-29  3Q-39  4Q-49  50+  Tot  Hall3  0  3  0  0  0  1  
-1.0  3  ·1  -Q.3  0  11  ¥anner  1-1  0-0  1·1  o-o  2-2  Bait en  2  0  2  0  0  0  0  

• THE STRATEGIST • • • 
No.Name Pos. HI. WI. YR 

ROD DOWHOWER 
1 Fred Vinson DB 5-11 170 FA 2 Jamie Watkins QB 6-3 195 FA 
3 . Ronnie Gordon QB 6·1 193 JR 4 Ed DeMesa WR 5-10 166 JR 

First season at Vanderbilt 
4 Ed from table QB 5-10 166 JR Jermaine Johnson RB 5-7 178 JR 

Career Record: 5-6-1 
Kenny Simon WR 5-11 193 SA Robert Sheffield CB 6-Q 186 so 

Against Opponent: 0-0 
Rahim Batten S 5·9 199 FA Shawn Stuckey LB 6-Q 215 so Highlights: Dowhower, a former NFL 
1 0 Darweshi Miles LB 6-Q 230 FA 10 Alannah Myles BV 5·8 125 SA 

assistant, is in his inaugural year as 
11 Jamail Carter QB 6·2 190 FA 12 Duane Todd WR 6·3 210 so coach of the Commodores. Previous col­
13 Hi Lewis QB 8-2 180 FA 13 Huey Lewis VOC 8-Q 175 RAD 

lege experience consists of a 5-5-1 mark 
14 The News GR 24-Q 700 125 14 Steve Venner K 5-11 173 SA 

at the helm of Stanford 
15 Matt Anderson CB 5·11 186 so 16 Jerimy Wills QB 6-2 199 FA 17 Damian Allen QB 6·2 184 so 18 Fred Baker WR 6-3 226 FA 19 Eric Vance S 6-3 214 JR 20 Alvin Duke WR 5-10 175 FA 21 Anthony Azama WR 6-3 226 FA 22 DeReal Finklin CB 5·9 183 JR 23 Tyrone Yarbrough RB 5-10 177 so 24 Bobby Jackson WR 5·1 0 186 JR 25 Robert Simmons WR 5-8 167 so 25 Richard Simmons FAT 5-3 180 OLD 26 Rosevelt Noble S 5-1 0 191 FA 
. NOTRE DAME 
26 Chelsea Noble HOT 5-8 125 FA 27 Antony Jordon LB 6·3 216 so 
STADIUM 
28 Corey Chavous S 6-Q 202 so 29 Bill Marinangel P 6-2 215 JR 30 Damian Charley DB 5·9 175 FA 31 Domenick Koger DB 5·9 175 FA 
Opened in 1930 
32 Marcus Forrest RB 5-9 184 so 33 Cliff Deese RB 5·9 181 SA 
Capacity: 59,075 
33 Rick Deas OJ 5-4 305 SA 33 Weekly Top40 MUS N/A N/A N/A 
Largest Crowd: 61 ,296
34 Carlton Hall LB 6-Q 235 so 35 Marcus A. Williams S 6-Q 197 so 
Surface: Grass 
36 Bart Cason RB 6-1 219 so 37 Johnny Metoyer DB 5-11 178 FA ND at home: 243-71-5 38 Brett Speakman K 5·11 170 FA 39 John Bradley LB 6-Q 222 FA 41 Paul Morgan RB 5-11 221 so 42 Jason Dunnavant RB 6·1 239 FA 43 Marcus Lewis CB 5-10 171 so 44 Durego Lewis RB 5-11 221 JR 45 Marl< Jefcoat LB 6-2 224 JR 46 Kill< Williarr.s LB 6·0 228 JR 46 Kill< Cameron ACT 5-6 140 FA 4 7 Scott Cohen P 6-1 190 FA 48 Royce Love RB 6-0 240 SA 49 Jamie Duncan LB 6-1 230 so 50 Myron Murray OL 6·3 280 FA 51 Jim Anguiano C 6-2 268 FA 54 Darren Hale K 5·11 161 SA 55 Bryan Josey OT 6-5 285 SA 56 James Manley DT 6-3 291 SA 57 Andy Overman LB 6·1 215 so 58 len Smith DT 6·3 258 FA 59 Walter Pitts DE 6·3 235 JR 60 Josh Whicker OL 6·2 284 FA 63 Derrick May OL 6-2 265 FA 


HALFBACK 5-Johnson
65 Will Jacobs OG 6-3 291 so 66 Tim Storer OG 6·2 263 JR 67 Mike Jones OG 6·0 268 so 70 Bill White OT 6·3 278 JR 71 David Coppeans OL 6-4 275 FA 
~~ 

72 Jason Hill DE 6-3 246 so 73 Brian Boykin DE 6-3 270 JR 
FREE SAFETY 7 4 Robert Couch OT 6-5 295 SA 
9-Moore 30-Edlson
75 Allen DeGraffenreid OT 6·4 271 JR 77 Chad.Wood C 6-,'3 275 so 79 Shawn Wilson OL 6-3 274 FA 80 Sanford Ware WR 5-9 178 SA 82 Marcus E. Williams TE 6-4 244 so 83 Jason T omichek TE 6-3 254 JR RIGHTTACKLE 84 O.J. Fleming TE 6-3 227 FA 74-Couch 85 Teremy Banks TE 6-4 220 FA 71-Coppeans 86 Troy Williams WR 6-2 204 so 87 Eric Wissman TE 6·3 238 FA 88 Donald Pitre WR 6-0 193 JR 89 Jay Stallworth DE 6-2 265 so 
STRONG
90 Clay Condrey DL 6-4 255 FA 
SAFETY 
91 Byran DeGraffenreid DT 6·4 259 SA 

17·Mauae 92 Alphonso Harvey DL 6·3 280 FA 26-Monohan 93 Jason Smith DL 6·2 310 FA 95 Matt Schuckman DT 6·4 260 JR 96 Kenny Christian DE 6-2 240 FA 
96 Crosby, Stills. Nash and 6-2 240 SA 97 Glenn Young DE 6·3 247 so 

~----------------------------~----------------------------------------------------------~-----------------------------------------~~ 
page 5 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA Friday, September 15, 1995 
FIGHTING IRISH 
1 2  
0 23  
14 6  
TEAMSTATS  NO  
First downs  46  
Total yards  864  
T a tal yards per game  442.0  
T alai offensive plays  141  
Avg. yards per play  6.3  
Rushing yards  457  
Rushing yards per game  228.5  
Rushing plays  90  
Passing yards  427  
Passing yards per game  213.5  
Passes completed  34  
Passes aHempted  51  
Passes intercepted  2  
Fumbles I Fumbles lost  3/2  
Penalties-Penalty yards  7-70  
Third down conversions  8-25  
Percentage  32  
Fourth down conversions  1-5  
Yda/Gm  No  Yda  
105.0  26  210  
72.0  9  72  
45.0  19  90  
39.9  18  79  
7.5  3  15  
2.5  5  
-9.5  

Sept. 2 Sept. 9 · at Purdue W, 35 Sept. 16 VANDERBILT Sept 23 • · , -~TEXA_$ ~ \ 
Sept. 30 ·at Ohio State J' 
Oct. 7 .~ Washington. \ OcH-}-Army\~Giants Stad.) · · Oct i! .. /~---./USC 
Oct. 28!fl0$TON COLLEGE No~4 ..::·· ..... · NAW-~,;:;;:;;;1/ Nov. 18 at Air Force 
3  4  Tot  PASSING  Comp  All  Pet  Yds  TO  lnt  Lg  FIELD GOALS  
14  13  50  Powlus  34  51  66.7  427  4  2  51  Kopka  
10  15  45  
RECEIVING  Rec  Yds  Avg  TO  Lg  PUNTING  
Opp  Mayes  15  179  11.9  1  22  H. Smith  
40  Edwards  5  54  10.8  0  17  Palumbo  
820  Mosley  3  87  29.0  1  51  
410.0  Kinder  3  32  10.7  1  30  KICKOFF RETURNS  
145  Farmer  2  23  11.5  0  17  Mosley  
5.7  Chrypiewicz  2  17  8.5  0  13  Farmer  
451  Salimann  1  15  15.0  1  15  
225.5  Denson  1  9  9.0  0  9  PUNT RETURNS  
82  Soil mann  
369  ALL-PURPOSE  Rush  Rec  Ret  Tot  Avg  
184.5  Kinder  210  32  0  242  121.0  INTERCEPTIONS  
32  Mosley  3  87  146  236  118.0  Wooden  
63  Mayes  5  179  0  184  92.0  Monahan  
3  Denson  72  9  0  81  81.0  
1/1  Farmer  90  23  42  155  77.5  DEFENSE  
13-115  Edwards  79  54  0  133  66.5  Cobbins  
12-31  Soilmann  0  15  26  41  20.5  Moore  
39  Stafford  0  0  16  16  16.0  Berry  
2-2  CarreHa  0  0  10  10  10.0  Magee  
Chryplewicz  0  17  0  17  8.5  Grasmanis  
Avg  TO  Lg  Bennell  
8.1  2  52  SCORING  TO  2XP  FG  Sel  Pta  Howard  
8.0  0  3  0  0  0  18  Wynn  
4.7  0  0  0  8  Wooden  
4.4  0  0  6  Rossum  
5.0  0  0  6  Tatum  
5.0  0  0  6  Minor  
-1.6  0  0  6  Covington  

LOU HOLTZ 

Tenth season at Notre Dame. Career Record: 200-90-7 Against Vanderbilt: 1-0 Highlights: Reached 200-win milestone last Saturday. Guided the Irish to the National Championship in 1988 and runner-up finishes in 1989 and 1993. 
G-29 30-39 40-49 50+ Tot G-0 1-2 0-0 0-0 1-2 
No Avg Bk Lg 
7 45.3 -o 56 
1 16.0 0 16 
No Avg TO Lg 4 36.5 0 48 2 21.0 0 26 

No Avg TO Lg 4. 6.~ 0 24 
No 
2 

T A Tot FC FA PBU Sec 21 9 30 0 0 1 0.0 11 5 16 0 1 0 0.0 8 7 15 0 0 2 0.0 8 6 14 1 0 1 0.0 6 6 12 0 0 0 2.0 8 3 11 0 0 0 0.0 8 3 11 0 0 0 0.0 9 2 11 0 0 0 0.0 8 2 10 0 0 1 0.0 7 3 10 0 0 0 0.0 2 6 8 0 0 0 0.0 2 3 5 0 0 0 1.0 3 1 0 0 0 0.0 
Pea. HI. WI. 

Derrick Mayes WR 6-1 204 SR Kinnon Tatum LB 6-0 216 JR Ron Powlus QB 6-2 217 JR Kory Minor LB 6-2 225 FA Emmell Mosley WR 5-9 180 JR Lyron Cobbins LB 6-0 241 JR Jarious Jackson QB 6-2 215 FA LaRon Moore S 5-9 190 SA 10 Mike Perona QB 6-1 190 JR 11 Tom Krug QB 6-4 206 JR 12 Scali Cengia K 5-9 179 SO 12 Mario Strayhorn DB 6-2 205 FR 13 Bert Berry lB 6-3 230 JR 13 John Bishop CB 5-11 170 JR 14 Ivory Covington CB 5-9 161 SO 15 Allen Rossum CB 5-7 176 SO 16 Jerry Maloney K 5-11 174 JR 17 Brian Magee S 5-10 204 SR 17 Mark McKenna QB 5-11 182 JA 18 Clkai Champion WR 5-10 191 JR 19 Marcus Thome RB 6-0 224 SA 20 Kevin Kopka K 5-8 175 FA 21 Shannon Stephens AB 5-10 175 FA 
22 Shawn Wooden 23 Bill Gibbs 23 Autry Denson 24 TyGoode 25 Randy Kinder 26 Mark Monahan 26 Chris McCarthy 27 Bobbie Howard 28 Ken Barry 29 Rani Enisle 29 A'Janl Sanders 30 Jarvis Edison 31 Robert Farmer 32 Clement Stokes 33 John Mclaughlin 34 Jamie Spencer 35 Scott Palumbo 35 Robert Phelps 36 Chlrs Wachtel 37 Jeff Kramer 38 Slm Stokes 39 Banny Guilbeaux 40 Kevin Carretta 41 Joe Babey 42 Mike Frascogna 43 Bill Wagasy 44 Marc Edwards 45 Hunter Smith 
::;~~~i==r======================================~:=;=================================~~~~~46JamesJa~son
4 7 Bill Mitoulas 48 Renaldo Wynn SPLIT END 

49 Joe Thomas 1-Mayes 
52 Alex Mueller 83-Soilmann 
53 Lamont Bryant 
CORNERBACK 


54 Luke Petitgout 
22-Finklln 21-Azama 

55 Shelton Jorden 56 Kurt Belisle 57 Rick Kaczenski 58 Mike Burgdorf 59 Matthew Kunz 60 Sean Rogers 62 Mike McCullough 65 Matt Griesbach 66 Jeff Kilburg 67 John Wagner 69 David Quist 70 nm Ridder 71 Jerry Wisne 72 Ryan Leahy 73 Mike Doughty 75 Chris Clevenger 76 Jeremy Akers 77 Dusty Zeigler 78 Jon Spickelmier 79 Mike Rosenthal 80 Malcolm Johnson 81 Charles Stafford 82 Bobby Brown 83 ScoH Soiimann 64 Dan McConnell 86 Antwon Jones 87 Jimmy Friday 88 Leon Wallace 89 Mike Denvir 89 John Cerasani 90 Ban Foes 91 Darnell Smith 93 Paul Grasmanis 94 JustlnOrr 95 Corey Bannett 97 Corey Redder 98 Pete Chryplewicz 99 Cliff Stroud 
--~------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
CB 5-11 188 SA S 5-10 179 JR RB 5-10 175 FR CB 5-11 183 SO RB 6-1 206 JR CB 5-11 184 SA K 5-11 194 SO LB 5-11 210 FR RB 6-0 214 SO DB 6-0 180 JR DB 5-11 175 FA s 6-4 213 so RB 5-10 208 JR RB 6-0 203 SO LB 6-4 222 SO RB 6-1 245 FR P 5-11 187 SA CB 6-0 185 JR P 5-11 211 JR LB 6-2 218 SO CB 6-0 185 JR DB 6-4 210 FA TE 6-1 230 SA LB 6-1 227 SO WR 5-8 164 SR LB 6-3 224 SA RB 6-0 227 JR P 6-3 195 FA RB 5-10 205 FA LB 6-1 217 SO DE 6-3 260 SA LB 6-3 205 FA OL 6-6 280 FR DE 6-4 235 FA OG 6-6 282 SO LB 6-4 230 FA LB 6-2 220 SO C 6-4 263 JA TE 6-0 205 JR 
s 6-0 209 so OT 5-10 280 JR NG 6-2 298 SA OG 6-0 283 SO OG 6-4 278 JR OL 6-8 300 FA NG 6-6 281 SA OL 6-7 280 FA OL 6-7 282 FR OG 6-4 288 SR OT 6-7 291 JR OT 6-8 285 JR ' OG 6-5 288 SA 
C 6-6 292 SR c 6-2 265 so OL 6-7 290 FA WR 6-4 206 SO WR 5-9 187 SA WR 6-3 175 FA WR 5-8 160 JR WR 5-8 181 SA DL 6-4 237 FA LB 6-3 230 FA TE 6-3 265 SR TE 6-3 231 JR TE 6-4 245 FA DE 6-4 250 SA DE 6-5 277 JR NG 6-2 279 SR WR 6-0 190 JR DE 6-1 228 SO LB 6·1 220 SO TE 6-5 257 SO DE 6-3 285 SR 
Bob Davje 

The 40 year-old defen­sive coordinator will act as interim head coach during Holtz's absence. Davie, in his second year at ND, was the architect of Texas A&M's famous "Wrecking Crew" defense. 


Dave Roberts 
The current Irish offensive coordinator will assume total control of the offense until Holtz returns. A creative offensive mind, Roberts also excels in recruiting. Roberts coached NE La. until 1993. 

Friday, September 15, 1995 
Wooden 
continued from page 1 
Florida State. "That was just a great game and I was glad to be a part of it." 
At the time, Wooden was a rather untested junior who was still learning the finer points of the defense. Now, he is a fifth­year senior who is regarded as one of the elder spokesmen of the squad. When interim coach Bob Davie talked about leader­ship in Lou Holtz's absence, Wooden's name was at the top of his list. 
"I look at myself as almost like a big brother to a lot of the younger guys," the cornerback said. "We've been coaching on the field all along. That's what leadership is about. You have to teach them about being a player and a person. At the beginning of the season, that's what we, as seniors, talked about. We're going to help them deal with everything in college life." 
It is somewhat ironic that Wooden is being looked at as one who must compensate for the loss of Holtz. 
After his freshman year, Wooden learned that he had developed a back problem, in certain respects, similar to that of Holtz, that would require surgery on. his spinal cord if he were to continue to play foot­ball. 
For the first time, he was faced with major adversity. It was a decision that was not entered into lightly. 
"They told me I wasn't going to be able to play without surgery and I was worried be­cause I didn't want to have surgery. There's risk in any surgery, but especially in the spinal cord. It's pretty risky. I talked it over with my mom and I decided that I wanted to play because I wasn't ready to give up the game." 
The surgery itself was per­haps the only thing as compli­cated as the decision to have it. 
"I had an unstable back so they had to stabilize it. What they had to do was cut some bone from the back of my hips and they bone fused it with the spine. They put two metal plates with four screws and wires in my back. I was out for eight hours, in the hospital for half a week, and in the infir­mary for a month." 
A time like that can certainly weigh on one mentally just as much as psychically. Adversity again. 
Fortunately for Wooden, he had one of America's best mo­tivational speakers right around the corner -Lou Holtz. 
"He helped me through my back surgery," Wooden ex­plained. "I was doubting myself and doubting whether I would ever play football again. He sat me down and told me I have to worry about the rest of my life. He said 'You my never play football again but you'll at least you can play with your grand­children'. He put a perspective on life." 
The emotional burden did not 
disappear after the surgery. As 
a matter of fa'ct, it was just 
starting. Once again, adversity 
came into focus. First came the 
fact that returning to the grid­
iron was not a definite. 
"After the surgery, the doc­
tors gave me a 50/50 chance of The Observer •IRISH EXTRA 
coming back to play," Wooden noted. "I was hoping for 80 or 90%. A lot of people helped me: my family, my friends, and the team. Just going out to practice and seeing the team just made a fire inside of me and want to play fqotball more. 
That being the case, extensive rehabilitation had to be under­taken. Combine the time nec­essary to rehabilitate a back with the time commitment of an engineer's workload and you have Wooden's situation. 
"I would get up before my 8 
o'clock class and go to the 
trainer. Then, after class, I'd 
go right back for my therapy 
and then I'd do my homework. 
It was a busy time." 
And now, after having over­
come all of that, Wooden's old 
companion of adversity has 
popped up again. This time in 
the form. of Coach Holtz' situa­
tion. 
"It is a tough time but the se­
niors will come together," said 
Holtz. "We'll have a team 
meeting where only the seniors 
talk. We just talk about going 
out knowing Coach Holtz isn't 
going to be there but that 
doesn't mean this is the time 
where the discipline on the 
team is gone. Things have to 
tighten up not loose." 
Wooden's ascent to his pre­
sent role of leader has been a 
gradual one. 
Having defeated all the hard 
times Wooden has faced has 
surely been a reason to respect 
the Willow Grove, PA native. 
His vast improvement on the 
playing field is another. 
"Shawn Wooden has im­
proved tremendously over the 
past few years," said teammate 
----··· 


271-0125 
GOOD THROUGH 9/29/95
NOT VALID WITH ANV OTHER COUPON ONE COUPON PER ORDER 


Cuisine 
LOCATED AT THE CAMPUS SHOPPES 


EXTRA VALUE MEAL 
$4.~ 
•CHICKEN 
FRIED RICE 

•EGG 
ROLL 

•CREAM 
CHEESE WONTON 

•FORTUNE 
COOKIE 




271-0125 
GOOD THROUGH 9/29/95 

$8.00 Minimum Order
NOT VALID WITH ANV OTHER COUPON • ONE COUPON PER ORDER 
$J~RQ1f 

The Observer/Dave Murphy Shawn Wooden runs back his first pass interception, which he got in the first half against Purdue last Saturday. 
Charles Stafford, who goes against Wooden in practice ev­ery day. "If he hadn't had all those injuries, he wouldn't be here right now, he'd be in the pros." 
If he continues to have three interceptions like he did last week (one was negated by a late-hit). he may end up there no matter what. 
""That was a great day for the secondary," said Wooden. "We made some big plays. Hopefully, we can just spread it out." 
If the secondary continues to play like it has thus far. that may be difficult. Wooden is confident though corrections can be made, 
"We just need to stress fun­damentals and tackle a lot bet­ter. There is no difference be­tween Vanderbilt and Southern Cal. Every team we play, we're going to come prepared to play. 
For Shawn Wooden, that preparation is a bit different this year. 
"I basically came into this season wanting to have some fun and I have. I've taken a different approach: instead of worrying about assignments, you just go on and keep play­ing." 
The fact that Wooden is still playing at all is highly com­mendable, but now the focus is winning for Holtz. 
"We just have to get our mind on football and win games." 
Nothing like a little spinal cord surgery to add a bit of adversity to the situation. It probably won't bother Shawn Wooden. He thrives on it. 

$J~RQ1f 
271-0125 
GOOD THROUGH 9/29/95
NOT VALID WITM ANV OTMER COUPON ONE COUPON PER ORDER 

Delivery Hours: 
Monday-Sunday 4:30pm-1:00am 
DINNER FOR TWO 
•SWEET A~~!~HICKEN 
•CHICKEN 
FRIED RICE 

•2 
EGG ROLLS 

•2 
CREAM CHEESE WONTONS 

•FORTUNE 
COOKIES 


271-0125 

NOT VALID WIT~PN~~T~fi~R~~~ •9llE9{!~oN PER ORDER 



page 7 
Crash Test Dummies 
Unheralded by all but their peers, walk-ons toil in obscurity for self-fulfillment and a chance at glory 
By TIM SEYMOUR 
other players. 
screams a coach. and An identity crisis is also un­
eleven players line up avoidable. One week the walk­

on the practice field in on may be Miami (011), the next Purdue's favorite kick-return the University of Miami. Often formation. the walk-on is Joe Average 
The players look around ner­wide-receiver. Occasionally he vously, share some cautious plays Charlie Ward for a day. laughter, and prepare them­But above all else, the walk­selves for imminent destruc­on needs an impregnable self­
tion. 
P
it bulls, get out there," 
confidence and love for the Wham. Bert Berry comes game. barreling down the field with a These characteristics existed full head ·or steam and drills a long before Rudy, the world's returner. 
most famous walk-on, made Wham. Brian Magee lays the them popular, and will exist lumber on another. when he has been mercifully 
The process continues all passed into the chronicles of over the field, returners history. sprawled like so many bowling They certainly exist in Notre pins, until the unlucky ballcar­Dame's crop of walk-ons, many rier is laid to rest at his own 15 of whom have made major con­
yard line. tributions for the Irish this sea­
"Pit bulls, get back out son. Monohan, Scott Sollmann, there," the eoach screams and Kevin Carretta are all again. and the terrifying walk-ons who were awarded 
process is repeated. scholarships before the season, 
Cut to the fourth quarter of and all had a hand in the vic­Saturday'!! win over the Boil­tory over Purdue. ermakers. Purdue has been chewing up yardage but is 
T
hese successes are the faced with a crucial passing sit­exception, however. uation, which the Irish counter The majority of Notre with a dime package. Dame's 12 or so walk­
Hoservc safety Mark Mono­ons toil in day-to-day obscurity, 
han reads the quarterback's with visions of playing time and eyes, judges the distance to the touchdowns as real as sugar receiver, and starts to cheat in plum fairies. that direction. arriving just in "You have to give everything time to snare the pass for his you've got just to earn a spot first career interception. on the scout team," stated 
So goes tho life of a walk-on. junior defensive end Mike Endless drudgery and occa­Burgdorf. 
sional glory. "You certainly don't get many Being a walk-on in Division I chances," said Monohan, who college football necessitates pe­made the most of his. ''I've 
culiar personality traits. been lucky to climb the depth 
One must be somewhat chart in the spring when there masoehistic, acting as a human aren't as many players." tackling dummy that routinely With tangible rewards hard gives up 5" and 100-pounds to to discern, the question most often asked of walk-ons is 'Why do you do it?' The answers all revert to the same theme. 


"I've been playing since the second grade," stated fifth-year senior receiver Mike Fras­cogna. "It would be inconceiv­able to pass up the opportunity to play here." 
"You have to have a love of the game," added Dan Mc­Connell, a senior receiver. "I was Iiot ready to stop after high school, and still wanted to be a part of a team." 
Becoming part of the team is easier said than done. Due to NCAA roster limitations, many walk-ons cannot join the squad until school begins, which places them giant steps behind their highly touted teammates. 
"When I first joined, I walked out to where the team was gathered and then suddenly they split into two groups, and I just sort of stood there until I eventually spotted the line­men," said Burgdorf. 
"At first you get thrown all over the field, then you begin to force a stalemate, and eventu­ally you maybe make a play." 
Making a play can come at a heavy price, though. 
Both Frascogna and Mc­Connell recounted their not-so­fond memories of the 'pursuit' drill, where a runner takes a naked sweep and all eleven defenders must practice their angles of pursuit, eventually tagging the runner. 
One day two years ago, a de­fensive coach in a particularly foul mood ordered that the drill commence full-contact, essen­tially pitting the lone walk-ons against the entire starting de­fense. 
"It was one-on-eleven," noted McConnell. "That was the worst thirty seconds of my life." 
"After we both came up with bloody noses, I think they real­ized that maybe that wasn't the 
{Left) Irish safety Mark Monahan, a former walk-on, made a crucial interception in the victory over Purdue. 
{Right) Senior receiver Dan McConnell has been an Irish walk­on since his freshman year. His efforts on the scout teams have earned him some special teams assignments. 

smartest thing, for liability rea­sons," concurred Frascogna. 
Despite getting physically abused day-in and day-out, walk-ons adamantly insist that their effort pays off. 
"I ran a reverse against Bryant Young (now with the San Francisco 49ers) in prac­tice that he stopped," noted Frascogna. "It was satisfying to watch him run the same play in the game and murder some­one." 
W
ile punishment in ractice is the rou­
me, the occasi_onal 
pauper to pnnce story exists. Monohan's rise is a perfect illustration. 
Three years of dogged, hard work paid off with a scholar­ship for the senior, which paid off for the Irish with his inter­ception. 
"I was so excited I didn't even know what to do," he said of his moment in the sun. 

His fellow walk-ons did. 
"When Mono made that interception, I just went nuts," said Burgdorf. "To see one of us do that was great." 
And while most walk-ons will not achieve such public hero­ics, to a man they count them­selves among the fortunate. 
"Being announced for the last home game last year and run­ning out in front of that crowd was incredible," said Fras­cogna. 
"Going against some of the best athletes in the country. guys who will be in the pros, and being able to hold my own was a great sense of satisfac­tion," added McConnell. 
"Knowing that this is some­thing I did on my own was gratifying," concluded Burgdorf. "If I did this I can do anything; it gives you great confidence to know that you not only survived. but did a lit­tle bit better than survive." 
Few would disagree. 

~l 
Friday, September 15, 1995 The Observer •IRISH EXTRA page 8 
•Jaat. 
Heir apparent already in the wings 
C 
with the media. 
rystal balls 
can tell you a 
And in a world that lot of things. rotates around col­Like who's lege football, espe­
cially Notre Dame,
going to be the next 
that's saying some­
Notre Dame head football coach. thing. 
Holtz's Tuesday
Lou Holtz's condi­tion is shocking and Mike Norbut press conference was terrifying. It's also hosted by Davie and 
Sports Editor offensive coordinator
very real. The man's 
livelihood was in danger before he decided on the operation. He could have been paralyzed had he tried .to run out on. the field one too 
many times. 
It's a terrible thing that the 
Irish coach had to have 
surgery. But put things in 
perspective. There were 16 
initial diagnoses as to what 
the condition could have 
been. 15 of them were termi­
nal. Luckily for everyone, 
Holtz had the 16th. Thank 
goodness for the luck of the 
Irish. 
It's kind of a wake-up call. 
The coach is not going to be 
around forever. Not that we 
should plan on another coach 
immediately, just that we 
might start thinking about it. 
Think no further. Bob Davie 
is the man. 
The Texas-talking defen­
sive genius fits the Irish foot­
ball mold. 

-
Everything about him is likeable. He's enthusiastic, he's aggressive, he's tough on 
-the opposition. 
He's even shown he's good 
Dave Roberts this week, much to everyone's appreciation. Davie's answers were to the point, exact and sincere. 
He handled himself beauti­fully considering the amount of pressure that has suddenly been thrown upon him. It's tough to be coach of the Irish. 
The twang, the smile, the intensity that his presence exudes . . . They all seem to fit rather well. 
It's kind of nice when you have to look no further than the office next door to find your next football coach. 
Because of unfortunate cir­cumstances, Davie has his opportunity to prove his tal­ents on the field. 
Expect something different. Not to say that the Irish will suddenly come out in a run­and-shoot formation, but you never can tell. 
One thing is for sure. You can bet the Irish will be ready to play. They'll find their you­know-whats in a sling if they aren't. 
Maybe he'll blitz more. 

~ /r--r,OP 3,_­
1 : l -~ 
~ -:-~ ;;; I 25 --~ ! ~ 
' -"'~ --; '­
1-------~ 
L· ­
PREV­

TEAM RECORD POINTS IOUS 

1. Florida St. (33) 2-0-0 1514 1 2. Nebraska (20) 2-0-0 1481 2 3. Texas A&M (4) 1-0-0 1372 3 4. Florida (2) 2-0-0 1313 5 5. Auburn (2) 2-0-0 1302 6 6. Southern Cal 1-0-0 1217 7 7. Penn State 1-0-0 1155 4 8. Tennessee 2-0-0 1058 8 9. Colorado 2-0-0 1033 10 10. Ohio St. 1-0-0 1023 9 11. Michigan 3-0-0 957 11 12. UCLA 2-0-0 941 12 13. Alabama 2-0-0 762 13 14. Oklahoma 1-0-0 720 14 15. Texas 1-0-0 647 15 16. Virginia 2-1-0 637 16 17. Arizona 2-0-0 509 17 18. Washington 1-0-0 478 18 19. Miami 1-1-0 393 19 20. Oregon 2-0-0 296 24 

21. Air Force 2-0-0 287 -­22. Kansas State 2-0-0 249 21 23. Georgia 1-1-0 153 -­24. Notre Dame 1-1-0 137 25 25. Northwestern 1-0-0 121 -­


Editor: Mike Norbut Managing Editor: Tim Sherman Associate Editor: Tim Seymour Graphic Design: Chris Mullins Contributing Writers: Andy Cabiness, Thomas Schlidt 
8 lAMEs Of lmREST 
#4 FLORIDA vs. #8 TENNESSEE This SEC showdown in the Swamp features two tremendous quarterbacks in UF'sDanny Wuerffel and Peyton Manning. It also has SEC and national title implications. 
#10 OHIO STATE vs. #18 WASHINGTON Tapes of this one will be hot commodities in the Irish film room. It will be a classic contest of OSU's size versus UW's speed. Buckeye Eddie George and Husky safety Lawyer Milloy will be going head-to-head in the Horseshoe. 
#12 UCLA vs. #20 OREGON Major Rose Bowl ramifications in this one. The Bruins are out to exact some revenge on the Quack Attack. The Ducks are coming off a huge win over Illinois. 
#25 NORTHWESTERN vs. MIAMI (OH) This is a huge test for the Wildcats, who see them­selves in the Top-25 for the first time in three decades. The Redskins could be tough at home. 

Tim Seymour Tim Sherman 
(5-3) (7-1) 
Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Tennessee Florida Florida Ohio State Washington _ Ohio State Oregon UCLA UCLA Northwestern Northwestern Northwestern 
Papa Ptetlltll: OPEN FOR Notre Dame 34LUNCH! Vanderbilt 17 ''The Most -Popular# on·Campus'' Notre Dame Saint Mary's I University Villaue 271-1177 271-7272 We miss you, Coach Holtz! Our thoughts and prayers are with you! ~Voted "Best Delivered Pizza" Notre-Dame Saint Mary's -1994 Best of MichianaStore Hours Store Hours* Mon-Th i2J Voted "Best Delivered Pizza" Moo-SatI lam-lam I lam-lamFri-Sat -1995 Best of Michiana Ilam-3am SundaySun i2J Voted "Best Delivered Pizza" Noon-lamNoon-lam -1993-94 Observer r-----, r-'f18rty1a'Cf(-, r Lat87JiTeSpeci8r, rGrgeflopping, r -LliiichSpecfa/, I Large I I 4Large I I Large I I Bread Stix I I 1Small 2Topping I I 1Topping Pizza I I 1Topping Pizzas I I 1Topping Pizza I I 2Cokes I I 2Cokes I $695 $695l • ll $2295·• ll $5~~":. ll $10°0 ~ ll • l L-----.J L-----.J L-----..1 L-----.J L-----.J *From I :OOam -3:00am (Fri/Sat Only) Call the ND Store for Delivery Service  











