.----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

Wednesday, September 13, 1995• Vol. XXVII No. 18 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Holtz in stable condition following procedure 
Coach spends night in intensive care; doctors report no complications 
By MIKE NORBUT Spom Editor 
Notre Dame head football coach Lou Holtz successfully underwent major surgery Tuesday morning and is in stable condition at the Mayo Clinic in Hochester, Minn .. 
The operation was performed at Saint Mary's llospital, which is closely affiliated with the Mayo Clinic. 
"Coach Holtz will spend the night in intensive care," Mayo Clinic spokesman Michael O'Hara said Tuesday. "lie should be moved to a regular room Wednesday, and hopefully he'll recover well." 
Holtz w.as suffering from a compression of the spinal cord in his neck. A disc was bulging into his spinal cord in the middle of his neck, btltween the C-5 and C-6 vertebrae. 
The dise was removed and replaced with a bone graft. 
"The procedure took over four hours to com­plete, which is the normal length of time for a procedure of this sort," O'Hara continued. "Two neurosurgeons from the Mayo Clinic performed the operation. It went without complications." 
The condition was discovered when Holtz experienced weakness in his legs and hands. He was unable run out on the field with the team for the Northwestern game on Sept. 2, nor was he able to climb the stairs into the locker room. 
He was advised by physicians to have the surgery done immediately because the situation was determined to be "imminently dangerous," according to Dr. James Moriarity, university physician. 
The Irish coach will be hospitalized through the weekend, and will be restricted to a neck collar for at least six weeks. He should, howev­er, be able to move around starting Wednesday afternoon. 
And that will most likely mean some contact with the team and interim coach, Bob Davie. 
"As soon as Coach Holtz is out of recovery long enough to communicate, there will be constant communication," Davie said. "As long as the neck brace doesn't cover up his ears and his mouth, we'll be talking constantly." 



SMC second home to Ireland native 
By JENNIFER LEWIS 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's and Notre Dame ean be considered the second home for Katherine O'Shea. 
The first student from Saint Patrick's College in nooth, Ireland, to enroll in a year-long program at Saint Mary's, O'Shea says she reels at home on the two campuses. 
"It has been much easier on me eoming from Ireland than any other country," O'Shea said. "I feel at home here." 


Katherine O'Shea, pictured here with roommates, is the first student enrolled at Saint Mary's from Saint Patrick's of Ireland. She feels that coming to the predominantly-Irish community has eased her transition. 
As part of a program that has sent approximately 25 stu­dents to Saint Patrick's for the past 18 years, O'Shea says she is proud to be the first student from Ireland at Saint Mary's. ''I'm like a guinea pig," O'Shea said. "They are hoping to send one student from Ireland for the next four years." 
O'Shea, a native from New­market County Court, is the youngest of three children, but she is not the first person in her family to spend time in America. With a brother in Boston and an aunt in New Jer­sey, she is fortunate enough to have family with which. to spend the Christmas holidays. 
"Not many people in Ireland have heard of Notre Dame," she said. "And if they have, they do not know the Ireland Connection." 
O'Shea has her own Ireland connection at Saint Mary's. Her roommate, Mary Kane, was in Ireland the following year. Al­though the two were not very close friends, they met prior to O'Shea's arrival. 
"It was brilliant having the Ireland students," O'Shea said. "It's like I had a ready made group of friends. They experi­enced my life back home, and they know what I'm talking about." 
Enrolled as a sophomore and double-majoring in history and sociology, O'Shea is currently taking fifteen credit hours, plus working fifteen hours at the li­brary. According to O'Shea, Ireland would not provide on­campus work for students. 
"So many people either have been in Ireland or want to go. It's kind of funny that everyone keeps asking me if I know their relatives." 
see IRElAND I page 6 
• HALl PRESIDENTS COUNCIL 
Council fixes dance schedule 
By BILL CONNOLLY 
News Writer 
In a surprising turn of events, members of the Hall Presi­dents' Council learned last night that many hall dance schedules are in conflict with each other. 
Eleven hall dances are cur­rently scheduled to be held on October 6, and eight dances are scheduled to be held on December 8. 
After the dates to the halls' respective dances were called out, many members of the HPC 
see HPC I page 6 



Malloy: Binge drinking a campus problem 
Editor's note: This is the third ofa five-part series exam­ining the use of alcohol on our campuses. 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
Associate News Editor 
It 's an all too familiar scene at the end of an SYR: men and women returning home after an evening or dancing and drink­ing, many inebriated, some of legal age, most not. For many it's a good time, but the ques­tion must be asked: Does Notre D.ame haye a problem with alcohol? 
According to University President Father Edward Malloy, when it comes to binge drinking, the answer is yes. 
"The abuse of alcohol is irre­sponsible," Malloy said. "It's simply unacceptable. We have to be concerned about the stu­dents' health and well-being." 
Nationally, 42% of all college students engage in binge drink­ing-defined as five or more drinks in one sitting. This find­ing is based on a June 1994 study by the Commission on Substance Abuse at Colleges and Universities, a commission chaired by Malloy and orga­nized under the direction of the Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse (CASA) at Columbia University. 
· The study also revealed that one in three of all college stu­dents drinks to get drunk. At Notre Dame, 58% drink to get drunk, according to an informal poll of 200 students recently conducted by The Observer. 
. While a significant percent­age of students -including those underage -at Notre Dame drink in moderation, the University chooses to focus more on those who abuse alco­hol by binge drinking, accord­ing to Malloy. 
''I'm not a prohibitionist. The issue is whether you drink to get drunk," he said. "A peer culture exists that promotes too much abuse of alcohol, and that needs to be corrected." 
The consequences of binge 
Part 3 of 5 
Under the Dome &Under the Influence 

drinking are well-documented. According to the CASA report headed by Malloy, 60% of col­lege women nationwide who were diagnosed with a sexually transmitted disease were drunk at the time of infection. Across the country, 95% of violent crime on campuses and 40% of all academic problems are al­cohol-related. 
Understanding the depth· of the problem may be difficult when relying solely on the pic­ture painted by statistics, but a report released last month by the Harvard School of Public Health reveals a new look on binge drinking. 
The phenomenon, known as "secondhand binge effects," refers to the problems that binge drinkers create for stu­dents who do not drink, includ­ing physical assault, sexual harrassment, and impaired sleep and study time for stu­dents who have to care for roommates and friends who have over-indulged. 

"These problems threaten the quality and safety of the college experience for millions of non­hinging students," Henry Wechsler, of Harvard, wrote for the report. 
Such a sentiment is echoed more closely to home. 
"If we're worried about the quality of life for our students here at Notre Dame, then our tolerance for alcohol abuse must be lowered," Malloy said. 
So how should Notre Dame go about reducing the reliance on alcohol and the prevalence of binge drinking on campus? According to Malloy, the solu­tion should start with the stu­dents, and specifically with stu­dent government and campus media. 
"If student government took on the issue and made evidence (of the consequences of binge drinking) available, it could cre­ate a better environment for the students," Malloy said. "There is no replacement for peer efforts to make a smarter, healthier environment." 
The CASA report provides a list of recommendations that students should consider when tackling the problem of alcohol abuse. Among the recommen­dations are: 
• 
Challenging existing norms that push alcohol as the only way to have fun and question­ing authorities like the alcohol industry that try to sell the idea that alcohol is the only way to be social. 

• 
Taking responsibility for one's behavior and really think­ing about why one drinks. 

• 
Getting involved in peer counseling and support groups, and taking part in voluntary programs like AIDS or rape cri­sis centers, Big Brothers/Big Sisters programs, political 


see BINGE/ page 6 page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, September 13, 1995 

• INSIDE COLUMN 


Credit Card Catastrophe #121 
My roommates and I got robbed by the best dressed student on campus. 

When I realized my credit card was miss­ing, I naturally thought I had misplaced it. I could have sworn it was in my wallet but noticed it's absence before I filled my car up with gas. Not to worry, the woman at the Amoco station was rather nice about it. She let me borrow her jump suit, so my clothes did not get dirty while I worked in the full service station for the rest of the afternoon in order to pay off my bUl. 
I dreaded the hassle of calling my mother, canceling my Visa, waiting for a new card, etc., only to have my original card show up the following day. (Rank yet another irre­sponsible mishap for Miss Jen Lewis.} Enraged by my own carelessness, I proceed­ed to go home and complain to my room­mates. Could you imagine my surprise, as I walked home from the gas station to find my roommate bawling on the phone with, yes, the Visa company. 
I envisioned a big burly man in a ski mask, tip-toeing through my apartment, browsing in my panty drawer, sifting through my wal­let, and pocketing my Visa Gold. Yes, I felt violated.· If this maniac got into our apart­ment once, who was to say he would not strike again? I frantically checked my belongings, nothing else was out of place. 
I grabbed the phone, it was my turn to talk to Mr. Visa Man. He informed me that the bandit made charges at Polo, J-Crew, Tommy Hilfiger, and Nautica, all convenient­ly located at the Michigan City outlet mall, only 30 miles outside of campus. 
"You must have known the person," the 
man's voice echoed in my head. "All three of 
your cards were used in the same places." 
The vision of the big burly man shrunk 
down to a skinny figure in plaid pants, 
styling glasses, and a jean shirt, wrapped 
tightly around the waist. What kind of hard 
core criminal would charge 300 dollars at 
the Polo outlet? I can not even afford socks 
there. 

After thinking about it for a couple of days, 
I suddenly became overwhelmed with laugh­
ter. What a joke? Don't they check the sig­
natures on the back of the cards anymore? 
Somebody just had a 3,000 dollar shopping 
spree on me and my roommates. Not only 
did they steal my card, but they went to 
three of iny favorite stores, and now, I have 
to make cookies in the dinning hall for an 
entire semester to pay it off. 

This person obviously had to be intelligent 
because they knew exactly what they were 
doing. After we had reported the cards 
stolen, the criminal tried to charge a meal at 
a near by restaurant. They must have had a 

trustworthy face because the woman gave 
the card back to them, and said, ''I'm sorry, 
there must be something wrong with the 
machine." I got her fired. 

Luckily since our stories matched we do not have to pay for the stolen items, we hope. I am not pointing any fingers, but the least they could have done was lend me a shirt? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Man blows up car in mall parking lot, killing his family 

ESSEX, Md. 
Betty Louise Clark had agreed to meet her estranged husband one last time: He said they'd take her three children shopping for school clothes and talk. 
A day later, all that was left of Mark Clark's station wagon was a crumpled, burned-out shell in the parking lot of a strip mall in subur­ban Baltimore. 

Police believe Clark packed his car with dynamite and blew up his family and himself, shaking the neighborhood and send­ing debris and body parts raining down blocks away. The glove compartment was found half a mile from Monday's blast. 
The Clarks, their 4-year-old daughter, Krysta Clark, and Mrs. Clark's other children, Malissa Ray, 11, and Ri­cardo Valdez, 6, all died. 
Neighbors said Tuesday that Clark, 32, had threatened to kill himself and his family Sunday and Monday. "We all just thought he was blowing hot air," said Pamela Pierce, who lived upstairs from Mrs. Clark. 
Mrs. Clark, 32, moved in with her sister in Essex earli­er this year. She had a new boyfriend and was studying to be a medical secretary. 
Neighbors saw Clark talking to himself outside the building when he visited his estranged wife on Sunday. 
Packwood diaries will be published 
WASHINGTON 
Americans will soon be able to read the 10,145 pages that led to the down­fall of Sen. Bob Packwood. Times Books said it will publish 100,000 copies of a $10 paperback, "The Packwood Report," in time to reach stores next week. The book will con­tain the full text of documents made public by the Senate Ethics Committee 


last Thursday, just hours before Packwood, R-Ore., announced his decision to resign rather than face a Senate vote of expulsion. The documents, including Packwood's diaries and sworn statements from his accusers, offer a picture of a man compulsively seeking sexual favors from women subordinates, eliciting largesse from lobbyists, abusing alcohol and, when the investigation of his behavior was under way, altering the diaries before giving them to authorities. Helen Dewar, a reporter who covers Congress for The Washington Post, wrote the foreword to the book. 

Mob pleads guilty to gaming charges 
NEW ORLEANS 
Five alleged leaders and associates of the Marcello or­ganized crime family pleaded guilty to scheming to infil­trate and skim profits from Louisiana's video poker industry. The pleas brought to 14 the number of people who have admitted in federal court to defrauding Bally Gaming Inc., a slot machine manufacturer, primarily through two Louisiana companies labeled by prosecutors as mob fronts. Pleading guilty to a single count of racke­teering conspiracy were: Anthony Carollo, named by prosecutors as the boss of the New Orleans-based Marcello family; Frank J. Gagliano Sr., identified by pros­ecutors as the family's underboss, or second in com­mand; Joseph Gagliano, Gagliano's son; and alleged asso­ciates Felix Riggio III and Cade Farber. All face up to 20 years in prison and $250,000 fines. The defendants were accused by a grand jury in May 1994 of using Worldwide Gaming of Louisiana, Louisiana Route Operators and two other companies to distribute video poker machines and siphon off profits between 1991 and 1994. 

He also visited on Monday. 
"When I asked what he was talk­
ing about, he said, 'You'll find out 
soon,"' said Mary Thomas, another 
upstairs neighbor. 
"Sunday and yesterday he went 
out to the car a thousand times 
looking in the car, looking in the 
trunk. Last night when we saw the 
wreck on the TV news we put two 
and two together," Thomas said. 
Mark Edward Weitzel, 30, who 
had been dating Mrs. Clark since May, said she had agreed to meet with her husband one last time to take the children shopping. He picked them up from Weitzel's house. 
"We knew he was unstable," Weitzel said. "But we didn't think he would actually do something like this. Yesterday I had a family -a girlfriend and three kids. Now I have nothing." 
"You hope that if they're having these problems that they would call us. That's what make it so sad since there was no hope of intervention," said Capt. Brian Uppercue, a police spokesman. 
Clark's last known address was in Cumberland. Police believe he had been supporting himself doing odd jobs in construction and plumbing. 
Police suspect a form of dynamite called slurry ripped apart the 1987 Ford Taurus wagon. 

Jury awards-$15 million to family 
BAY MINEETE, Ala. 

A jury ordered Rheem Manufacturing Co. to pay $15 million to the family of a 2-year-old boy who was burned in a fire ignited when other children spilled gasoline near a Rheem water heater. The Circuit Court jury agreed on Friday that the pilot light was so close to the ground it easily ignited the fumes. The panel awarded $3 million in compensatory damages and $12 million in punitive damages over Andrew Scott's severe burns to his legs. buttocks, back and arm in the 1991 fire at his home. The boy had been playing near the water heater in a utility room off the back porch. Joseph "Buddy" Brown Jr., an attorney for the Scotts, said the case pointed out how dangerous such water heaters can be. The New York manufacturer will appeal. "It's most unfortunate that Andrew Scott was injured, but that accident was not caused by the water heater," said Andrew Clausen, a lawyer for Rheem. "It was caused by an open can of gasoline which was left on the porch while a 2-year-old child was playing unsupervised." 

Rare lizard devours pink flamingo 
APPLE VALLEY, Minn. 

Maureen, a Komodo dragon at the Minnesota Zoo, kept 
turning up her nose at the white rats she was offered. 
But when a pink flamingo made the mistake of dropping 
in, Maureen found it irresistible. One leg and some pink 
feathers were all that was left. At least Maureen is eat­
ing, zoo officials said Monday. She had been finicky about 
the white rats, quail and chicken on her menu. "This 
was a gourmet meal for her," said zoo spokeswoman 
Jackie Northard. Maureen and Doni -two 70-pound 
Komodo dragons from Indonesia -are the zoo's star 
attractions. Doni has been eating anything put in front of 
him since the lizards arrived in July. The flamingo, 
which was in an adjacent exhibit, was devoured Friday 
night or Saturday morning. "Normally they don't fly out 
of the exhibit," Northard said. "Once or twice a year, one 
will fly out, and we know that it's time to clip their feath­
ers again. They've never become dinner before." 
Komodo dragons, an endangered species, can grow up to 
10 feet long and weigh 300 pounds. 
• NATIONAL WEATHER 

Wednesday, Sept. 13 Accu-Weather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

those ofThe Observer.  
• TODAY'S STAfF  
News. Gwendolyn Norgle Mark Huffman Sports Joe Villinski Mike Day Graphics  Viewpoint Mike O'Hara Production Kristi Kolski Allison Fashek Kira Hutchinson Lab Tech  

Zoe Marin Brandon Candura 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are teserved. VIa Associated Press Graph/csNet C 1995 AccuWeather, Inc. 

~------------------------------------------------------~--------------~~----~------­

~~-~~---------------~ 
The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
AccouNTING CAREERS NIGHT THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 14 6:00-9:00P.M. JACC MONOGRAM ROOM IRMS IN ATTENDENCE AMOCO EDS AMWAY ERNST & YOUNG ARTHUR ANDERSEN GENERAL ELECTRIC BAXTER KPMG PEAT MARWICK BOO SIEDMAN NATIONS BANK CARGILL NATIONAL FUTURES COOPERS & LYBRAND ASSOCIATION CROWE CHIZEK PRICE WATERHOUSE CS Fl RST BOSTON PROCTER & GAMBLE DELOITTE & TOUCHE STATE FARM Sponsored by Beta Alpha Psi Any Questions, call Eric Lorge@ 232-2954  

Withoutyou Campus Ministry doesn't have a prayer! This Is Your Last Chance! ! Students, Faculty, and Staff are invited and encouraged to compose a personal prayer for a new Notre Dame Campus Book of Prayers to be pub! ished this year. We would like original prayers that reflect daily and seasonal life on campus; prayers that deal with personal concerns, places, events, issues, relationships, etc. that reflect one's life and experience at Notre Dame. Prayers are to be submitted no later than November 1, 1995 and can be sent to Campus Ministry -Badin Hall C/0 Prayer Book Team.  

TASTE OF INDIA 
Newly Opened Indian Restaurant! 

Vegetarian and Non-Vegetarian Indian Cuisine 
Lunch Buffet I lam -3 pm $4.95 all you can eat! Dinner 5-9 pm daily Monday-Thursday Open 'til Sunset Friday Closed Saturday 
For Large Group Reservations Call (616) 471 5058 
8938 US Highway 31 Berrien Springs, MI 
(Across from Andrews University) 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Let's find everbody a job 
Associate Dean of the College of Arts and Letters Dian Murray, gives some opening remarks at the Arts and Letters Placement Night last night. 






The 0 bserver 
is now accepting applications: 
Photo Editor 
Please submit a one page statement of intent and resume to John Lucas, Editor-in-Chief, by Wednesday, September 13. Call 1-4542 with any questions. 
Bodner: Science students beware 
By MAUREEN HURLEY 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
Students in science research and laboratories must beware of self-deception, fraud and embellishment, according to Purdue University Professor George Bodner. 
Tuesday night, Bodner spoke with 120 Saint Mary's students and American Chemical Society members about ethical conduct in science. 
The lecture, sponsored by the St. Joseph Valley section of the American Chemical Society, aimed to provide students with understanding of ethics in that can be directly applied in col­lege and professional work. 
• SECURITY BEAT 

'!~1~~J~b-. 
cited for speeding on Juniper Road. 
5:35 a.m. ASouth bend resident was
12:57 p.m. A Grace Hall resident re­cite<! for speeding on US31.
ported the theft of both outside mirrors 2:37 p.m: Security and Notre dame Firefrom his vehicle while parked in the 002 

Dept responded to a fire at Grece Hall. nH,1M)<!i!:1t.i!'1l\;A11~i,V;,,,Utm'lld,,;,. Ttler!!l was minor damage end no Injuriesreported. .
4:31 p.m. A University employee was 7:39p.m

transported to St. Joseph's Medlqal Cen· A Stanford Hall resident was transportedter for treatment of bums>ki St. Joseph's Medical Center for treat·7:35 p.m. A Greca Hall resident reported ment of a sports in)UfY.

the theft of his license plate from his vehl• 

... ,,:::~w ·==~=:i=·:
cle while parked in the 002 Lot · ' · 

10:26 p.m. A Lyons Hall resident was Sl,JN.t SEPT. 10th transported by SecUrity to St. Joseph ;,:03 p.m. An off-campus student re• Medical Center for treatment of Injuries ported the theft of his bicycle carrier from sustained during a fall. his vehicle while parked In the C01 Lot. 
';:'f &;~!i~.m.:t~~nott ~!\1 re~;~nt reported
SAT.t SEPT. 9th 


the theft of hl:lr wallet from Fisher Hall.
1;:15 a.m. A Siegfried Hall resldent,waf.l ·.:, .. • ··• ...==~.::=.::::· ·= .._:H~~:~, ··=·: ·. ::·: t.::~·i==·=ii=:=~-:i:: :=:·: ~:?:·: :.. ·.. ·.. ·: :·,~::::.~:r.:;~:,:~i1~~~~:v\~~~;;:, w~ 
"I hope they gained an inter­est of how to do better science, by understanding the pitfalls of bad science," said Deborah McCarthy, Saint Mary's assis­tant professor of chemistry and ACS president-elect. 
While Bodner discussed vari­ous forms of unethical conduct throughout history, he focused on the easy trap of self decep­tion, where "one or more scien­tists fall into the trap of seeing what they wanted, expected, or hope to see, altering data and conclusions," he said. 
"The lecture taught me that I need to really pay attention and see it for what's really there, and not what I want to see," said freshman chemistry major 
Authorities discover seven bodies 
Associated Press 
CIUDAD JUAREZ, Mexico 
Seven women -at least four of whom looked alike and were raped and strangled -have been found dumped in the desert since Aug. 19, and au­thorities are investigating whether a serial killer is re­sponsible. 
"That's still speculation," State Judicial Police spokesman Ernesto Garcia said Monday. "We can't determine if it's one person." 
The first victim found was Elizabeth Castro Garcia, thought to have been 15 to 17. Her body was discovered on uninhabited land near the city's airport. 
Rachelle Hall. 
Escaping from current hot topics in science ethics, Bodner discussed unethical behavior throughout history which has affected all scientists -from stu­dents to published professionals. 
"There's nothing new about unethical behavior in science," Bodner said. 
Some students responded to Bodner's lecture, saying that they learned not only to ques­tion their own conclusions, but to question the credibility of sources. 
"You shouldn't take every­thing at face value just because it was written by a well-known scientist," said freshman biolo­gy major Jenny Lemler. 
SportsChannel to spotlight ND race car 
Special to The Observer 
The trials and tribulations of the University of Notre Dame's electrically powered Indy-style race car will be featured in an upcoming program on SportsChannel. 
Scheduled for 2 p.m. Sept­meber 21, the program focuses on the 12 universities that par­ticipated in the second annual Cleveland Electric Formula Classic on July 22. The hour­long program will be rebroad­cast at 11 a.m. October 5; 4 
p.m. October 6; and 1 p.m. Oc­tober 8. (For TCI cable view­ers, SportChannels airs locally on Channel 22) 
The race in Cleveland was a low point in the season for the Irish Racing Team. After win­ning the inaugural event in 1994, Notre Dame experienced electrical problems during qualifying for this year's race and was unable to compete. SportsChannel chronicles the team's prerace activities and follows up with a report on the problems encountered on race day.Notre Dame came back to end the season August 17 with a fourth-place finish at the Electricore Formula Lightning race in Indianapolis.The two­year old electric car has been designed and developed by undergraduate students in Notre Dame's College of Engineering under the direc­tion of William Berry, associate chair and professor of electri­cal engineering. 

Wednesday, September 13,1995




page4 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



The Best Way To Save Money On Stuff 
(Other Than Borrowing Your Roommate)s). 
Roommates tend to get weird when you borrow their stuff. (They're funny 
like that.) Better to get yourself a MasterCard® card. Then 
you could use it to buy the things you really want. 
And with these College MasterValues® coupons, you'll save up to 40%. And until 
you get your own place, it's the smartest thing you can do. Roommates are weird 
enough as it is. MasterCard. It's more than a credit card. It's smart money.~. 
r------------------------------~-------------------------------~-------------------------------r------------------------------, 

JCPenney T W E E D 5 : 
Optical Center SAVE $10 ON Jl RTc~..~Y.E D i JOIN AND SAVE $45 
50% OFF ANY WOMEN'S APPAREL 1 EYEGLASS FRAME Simplicity, comfort and style... that's Tweeds. SAVE UP TO $140 Join for only $15, instead of the regular $60 annual Save on all Tweeds clothing and accessories. Call membership. Then enjoy FREE lifi tickets and savings
Save 50% on absolutely every eyeglass frame plus... 
1-800-999-7997 and receive a FREE catalog with Your college ring, from ArtCarved, is a keepsake up to 50% on lift tickets, resort lodging and dining,bonus discount of $20 on our best lenses. Sale our latest styles. Place your order and save $10 on you'll always treasure. Save $35 on 10K gold, $70 etc., at top resorts East and West. A great gift for includes any eyeglass frame in stock when you pur­1 any purchase of$50 or more when you use your on 14K gold or $140 on 18K gold. Call skiers/snowboarders. Call 1-800-800-2SKI (2754) to chase a co~lete pair of eyeglasses and use your MasterCarde Card and mention the COLLEGE 1-800-952-7002 for more details. Mention join or for details and specials in your favorite areas MasterCard Card. Lens discount applies to our best MasterValues® offer #C3WA. offer #9501. and mention offer #15MCSKI. Plus look for us on the 
lenses. See optician for details. Coupon required. 
internet at URL http://www.skicard.com/sbcard
Olfer and coupon valid 8/15/95 to 12/31/95. Olfer valid only on Olfer valid 8/15/95 ro 12/31/95. Olfer valid only Olfer valid 8/15/95 to 12/31/95. Olfer valid only on purchase< uung purdwes w.mg aMmerCarcfCl Card Surrender diiJ I on purchases usmg aMaste~ Card and whendnll ~,.. aMasterC:udCI Card and when offer #9501ts 1"\11 r:r,.. Ofi"er valid 8/15/95 to 12/31/95 Offer valid onlyeli
coupon at tune of purchase Coupon h.as no cuh. I the COLLEGE MasterValuese offer #C3WA ts ~\JC. menuoned Coupon nuy not be combmed w1th a~"""\JC. t on purclwes usmg a MasterCanJII Card and when value, and may no! be combmed wnh any 4> • 1 m.eno.oned Offer v01d where prohib1ted, weed, . any other coupon or discount Shippmg and (" I the #lSMCSKI u menaoned Details on o-,
1
coupon. wscount, V>lue Right P"bge or • or restncred Coupon may not be cornbmed • ) handling are extra Lurut one wscount per ' I •Icier dlicounu lined m95/96 "S.vmll' Gu•de" • ) 
VISIOn care plan lmut one coupon per purchase 'A.A-.~.~._. AA...-::-;;':\"""' purcha.~e Some rcstncuons apply Vo•d where 'AA.) mcluded With each membe.-ship Houn Mon-Fn 'AA..~, ;-,: .~·
1 With any other coupon or discount Shippmg and I 
Sec: opOclan for dc:wl.s Votd where: prohabned ...~ 1 handling arc: extra Limir one discount per purclwe ·"~lef'Va~ proh1bned '"~ I 9 am to 4 pm Mtn ome Vo1d where prohibucd ...~ 
L------------------------------J-------------------------------~-------------------------------L------------------------------J1
1 
I TIMI WARNIR 
MOTOPHOTO

THE WALI1 STREET JOURNAL. I v~u~~ 
49% OFF A SPECIAL GET ONE VIDEO FREE 50% OFF FILM PROCESSING
SAVE $3 OFF A CD 
Hold on to the good times and your money, too.
12-WEEK SUBSCRIPTION WHEN YOU BUY THREE
Here's music to your ears... save $3 on one regu­Take 50% off the regular price of processing and
Invest in your future and stay on top of current Video values just for you! Enjoy a full selection of
larly priced Compact Disc at $6.99 or more when printing on the first set ofprints at MotoPhoto, you use your MasterCarde Card. Limit two $3 when you use your MasterCard® Card. Call
developments with The Wall Street journal. For top-quality videos at discount prices. All videos a limited time only, use your MasterCard® Card are priced at $9.95 or less and are 100% satisfaction
discounts per coupon, per purchase. Limit one $3 1-800-733-6686 for the location nearest you. discount per box set purchase. Offer Not Valid 
and pay just $23 for a 12-week subscription guaranteed. Act now and get one video FREE 
Limit 1. Offer Not Va)id Without This Coupon.Without This Coupon. COUPON #336 
to the nation's leading business publication. when you buy three and use your MasterCard® To take advantage of this spec,·al 0 a:er, call Card. Call1-800-551-0262 for your FREE cata­
u• J d k J:: h COLLEGE M Val ® Offer and coupon valid 8/H/95 to 12/31/95. Cash redemption value
Olfer and coupcm valid 8/15/95 to 12/31/95. Olfer 1-800-348-3555 and please refer to source og an as ror t e aster ues 1/20~ Olfer valid only on purch= using aMasterCard• Card. Surrender 
valid only on purchases using aMasterCarc:JC'Card. k ?SNY offer #1081-5999. coupon at arne: ofpurchase Lmm one coupon per purchase. Cannm Surrende.rcoupon at timeofpurcluse. Coupon ey ' dOl) OffervalidS/15/95 to 12/31/95. Offer valid onlydnll ~r be combmed With any other offers or discounts d"'1 <:r.:r
ci).) .VLLLUC.) .>JLLLUC.)
has no ash redemption value. Otfer void where • Offer valid 8/15/95 to 12131/95. Offer valid • on purchase5 using a MasterCard• Card and when MotoPhoto Club Members are enntlc:d to take 
proltibited, uxed or resaicted. Coupon may not . . only on purchases using aMasterCarcte Card . .o-•• the COLLEGE MasterValues* offer #1081-5999 . . 10% off' the coupon pnce Off'er valid on C-41 
be combmed With any other diJcount Discount · ·. and when source key 75NY is mentioned. · · is mentioned. Offer nuy not be combined with ·• · ·. process, 35 mm film, and standard 51zc: pnnts · <­I ~%JoQ:x~C::'!n~rr~~~n. Coupon not ~ ~~t ;~::::~~~~ed~count per penon. ~\\¢: :1d~~~ro"J;.r ~~;!s~~~~~· ~!ib~:~ for U.S. ~\u6 ~~~ ~~:;e~hl~~~:dclpanng states only ~\UE5'
1 1 1 
r----------~-----------l-------------------------------~---------~~~if~i~;---------·---tiiE-itiillaiiiillftiJii;E•--~ 
BtJXOFFIRE I I forrYrndow.
SAVE zoo"o SAVE 15% ON YOUR NEXT 
COUJMBIA /'C I PURCHASE OF $75 OR MORE 
A Division of Sony Mu•ic Entertainment, Inc. Run into Herman's and save. Take 20% offyour : SAVE 40% ON WINDOWS Shopping is easy at America's premier specialty SAVE 25% next purchase of regular priced merchandise when 1 W0 RD PROCESSOR retailer of gift, fitness, recreational, travel, apparel Save 25% off the regular price of the Aerosmith you use your MasterCard" Card. Find everything 1 and more. Save 15% on a purchase of$75 or more 
· " · all h · · al c 1 b" WordExpress makes it easy to create great looking
ll 1 
co ecnon, reatunng t e ongm 0 urn 1a you need at Herman's...We Are Sports~ Offer I when you shop at any of our 75 store locations or 
· 1 d · 1 reports, term papers, essays and more. Top of the
alb urns. Box OF FIRE me u es a preVlous y-excludes certain merchandise. Coupon Required. 1 by mail order. Call1-800-344-4444, 24 hours a 
· · d 1 line feature set, fast and easy to use. Includes p. rofes­
unreIeased, 5-track bonus disc ofAero-rannes an 1 day, 7 days a week, to find the store nearest you or 
. I di "S b ""C" I] k" Olferandcouponvalid8/15/95tol2/31/95.01fervalidonlyonpur-sionallydesignedResumeTeml'lates.Only$29.95
hard-to-find gems me U ng U way, lfC e er chases wmg aMasterCard• Card Surrender coupon at wne ofr,urchase. 1 11 for a FREE catalog. Coupon Required. Offer and coupon
and more! Order now and get 12 CDs for $89.99. Olferexcluda Cro,.Wolk Plus, Cardia-Glide, :ill gnlfb>lb, se '"pro 1 when you use your MasterCard Card and mention alid 8/15/95 t 12/31/95 Offi olid nl has . ga Call 1-800-322-3412 and ask for the COLLEGE clubs, select Pnnce, Wilson, Head, Pro-Kennex and Ektelon rackeu, I offer WXO-MC. To order, call 1-800-998-4555. I ~OI.IterCarde c:d. There ,;,.e arn::ted ~u~b~~ ~~r~enu~ou~~ch th" MasterValuese Offer. Offer valid 8/15/95 to 12/31/95. o~er :ect~~~e a~d :e~brbtPre~oge product, Fib,.~e.va, Convhne .L.J., : Visit Us On The World Wide Web At : offer does not apply. May not be: combined with Frequent BuyersTW
u• cs. an . 0 ~ de oo~ear, Team ptvUion mere andise, h , /d J . /h Prognm, Price Matching Policy, auction purchases, or other discounts 
l valid only on purchases wing a~terCard• Card(&) hunnng ~d fishing ~cerues,. equipment SC:CVlcesdiiJ 1 ttp./ . e ta.com/nucrov om~ diiJ 1 or promotions. Not V2li.d on purchase ofgi.fi certificates 
and when the COLLEGE MasterValu~ offer home delivery and~ certificates..Offer may • 1 Offer valid 8/15/95 ~o 12/31/95. Off'er valid • 1 or on pn:viow purdwes. The: discount is applicable C1i
1 

is mentioned. Offer may not be combined • not be co~bme~ ~th any other discount . ... I only on purchases usmg aM.asterCa.rd• Card , . ~ .. I to, and the minimum purchase based on current 8)
: With any other dilc:ount. Shippin-and handling · · ·' or promonon. Lmut one coupon per I and when offer WXO-MC ts menooned. I merchandise: prices only and excludes we · ...... ' 1 
$3.50 per purchase. Limit one discount per 'AA...--::-.7\l¢j curc~ase. Coupon vali~ at any He~:s ~~ I Sltipp~ng and h:mdling are ad~tional. Limit . . ~\ue: I sltipping and ux on shiPping. Void whcr~ ·AA..."7.·.-a. •..c 
_
L _P~· ~~.:'!li~:..V~~~~hi~~_ =~ _~c:o~n:..s:c_#~5.:. ~o~ ~h~r: p~o~~t~·-____________:_ ~~ ~s:o~n~p~ :u.:_c:as~. ~~d_w:e~ !:r~h~1~d~ _________ l_ _p~o~~t~·-_____ ~'2_S_C£>~E~ I:_ ___ :.."~~: __ 

0 1995 MasterCard lntemationallncotporated 



By KARA PAVLIK 
News Writer 

When it comes to campus productions, most people ex­pect the professors to be along the sidelines. 
This is not the case at Saint Mary's, where senior Kathryn O'Donnell is performing with Assistant Professor of Theater Katie Sullivan, in Jean Genet's play "The Maids" opening Thursday at Saint Mary's Club­house. 
The result is a professor "co­directing and co-designing a play with a student," Sullivan said. 
"The Maids" is the outgrowth of a student-faculty partner­ship, known as the Student In­dependent Study and Research (SISTAR) program, where a faculty member and a student partner receive a stipend to support study in the summer. 
The program is designed for a professor to engage in a high level of cooperative learning with a student. In this case, 0'­Donnell and Sullivan re­searched and are now perform­ing a play. 
"The role we played in doing 



Recycle The

The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Puppy Love! 
Senior Kristy Zloch spends some precious time in the sun with black 


Observer 

labrador retriever, Conrad. 

FREE 

PHONE CALLS 
An exaggeration? Not if you're spending more than 25 bucks a month talking to people in Elkhart, Goshen, Bristol, Dunlap, Middlebury and Wakarusa areas. Why pay high long distance charges when you can pay a low flat montlhy fee? You can call as often and talk as long as you wish for only $23.00 per month. No special lines or installation needed. We can start your service today! 

1-800-360-4990 


Register in Advance at RecSports l'he fee is $8.00 and Space is Limited Helmets are Required Depart Library Circle at 10:00 Return to Library Circle at 5:00 
R--~ 
Wednesday, September 13, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 



Students, faculty 'act' together 
this project have not been that of professor and student. It was more like senior faculty mem­ber with junior faculty mem­ber," Sullivan said. Thus, the faculty member is expected to benefit from the project as much as the student. 
"We chose to do 'The Maids' because it was a stretch for both me and her," O'Donnell said. "The play is not done in a realistic style, so it took us away from natural acting." 
"The Maids" is based on a true life story of the Papin sis­ters in LeMans, France during the 1930s. Genet wrote the play as part of the French exis­tentialist movement, a period of time associated with philoso­pher/playwright Albert Camus and Jean-Paul Sartre. 
According to O'Donnell, Genet loved to reveal the illusions of theater, so the audience should expect to be shocked and sur­prised. 
"The play is very ritualistic. It deals with class and social is­sues, so I encourage people to come to this with an open mind," O'Donnell said. 
Although O'Donnell and Sulli­van do the majority of the act­ing, local actress Melissa Manier has been hired for a minor roll. But the real inten­sity of the play comes from the two main characters, Sullivan said. 
"This play has two very pro­found female parts. We'd never pick this show for the main­stage season because it is odd, yet the play is very important in terms of the world of theater." 
Patrick White, SISTAR coor­dinator, said the play was se­lected by the SISTAR committee because it offered diversity to Saint Mary's theatrical produc­tions. He added it would be dif­ficult for a student or a profes­sor to concentrate on a project of this complexity during the academic year. 
"SISTAR gives a student a chance to do her most mature work at Saint Mary's. It gives a student a taste of graduate work," White said. 
"The Maids" will play at Saint Mary's Clubhouse September 14 through 16 beginning at 8 
p.m. Although admission is free, seating is limited. A dis­cussion with the actors will proceed each show. 
Prep school teacher charged for misconduct 
By RICHARD LORANT 
Associated Press 
ANDOVER, Mass. 

The photos in the Phillips Academy yearbooks show him sitting at his desk or lecturing in a striped tie. He stands by a motorcycle in one, strums a guitar in another. 
Over the years, the hair grows gray, the face lined, but the story is the same: Here is David Cobb, department head, respected colleague, admired mentor, shaper of character ­Teacher. 
Now a new portrait of Cobb is emerging: a mug shot of a man arrested at his Gilford, N.H., summer home Aug. 23 on charges of trying to lure teenagers into his car. Police said he had pictures of naked adults and children in his knapsack. 
As teachers and students re­turned for the start of classes on Wednesday at the exclusive prep school, Cobb was not on the school's campus -training ground of prominent Ameri­cans from Oliver Wendell Holmes to former President Bush -for the first time since 1968. 
Those who knew Cobb, 59, wondered if they could have been working with a stranger for almost three decades. 
"I'm floored," said Joseph Wennik, a former teacher of German who is the academy's director of alumni affairs. "It just doesn't make any sense." 
The Teacher 
It wasn't just his BMW motor­cycle and cowboy boots, or that he sometimes dressed up like the characters in books his class was reading. 
David Cobb knew how to teach. 
Students said he made so many handwritten comments on papers it sometimes seemed he spent more time on them than they had. 
His colleagues looked to him for inspiration, and the school made him head of the English department for a five-year term in 1990. 
Andover students rearranged their schedules to take his courses. 
"You'd hear a lot of students say you haven't experienced Andover until you've had Mr. Cobb for a teacher," said Bobby Moss, a senior who took his Shakespeare course last year. 
CINrMARK IIIFAI«I'S 
•lilt.Slllllr T-U:55, 3:85,5:18,7:35,1:45 
•A 
bIll bitt~ {Pil) l:tll, 3:311,5:35,7:411,8:511 •lll fl..-{Pil) 1:45,4:15, 7:1U, 1:48 •Cillal {PG-13) 7:tU:Ii 

•lliiiiiiYIIIIIrl 
c~ IPGJuu. :t.31i, uti •A Wit IIlli Cllla{PG-13) 1:11,:t.H,Ii:41.7:55.1D:1D •IJriiiiiUtaln no ull.4:311,7:oo.a:30 ~ Blllll (G) 1:11i,J:JI,5:11i,UD,I:tll •lk' .IIQIIIIIIIIJ Hyda(PG-13) 1:11i,:t.11i.i:Z11,7:30,D:55 • 118yr81l'QOIIRJ B:OU,10:20 • IIIIIIIWD:Dim·13) 1:35,3:45,5:45 • Uodllr SleUI21RJ1:1D,3:25,5:30, 7:50,10:011 



,, To 1\Ll SfATSII~fon~ & Pf,l 

• flO PASSE:> SUI>lll,AI'ti1S /,( CEPTE[) 
Date:  ''I had agoodtime to~ht... letSdoIt~ sometime. IllCall you~' (yeah, right) Sound familiar? Tired of the same old dates with over 250 new ideas for dates that are fun, cheap and the same old endings? Now it doesn't have to be safe, and a new feeling of confidence in relation­that way. The answer is Creative Dating. ships. Creative Dating is a high-energy, audience-partic­Creative Dating entertains as it educates-it pro­ipation workshop, in which our dynamic presenters vides fresh, positive, upbeat, alternative dating ideas, will expand your dating horizons. while helping srudents deal with today's issues. During this interactive session, you'll discover Don't just settle for another predictable date! Wed, Sept 13 Time~ 8:00 pm Place: LaFortune Ballroom Sponsor: Student Activities  

page 6 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, September 13, 1995 
HPC 
continued from page 1 
were frustrated with the appar­ent inefficiency of the Council in this matter. However, HPC Co­Chairpersons Kristin Beary and Matt Schlatter made some valu­able suggestions to help restore order. 
The dates were selected by each hall without the advice of the HPC as a whole. Beary and Schlatter had suggested a list where each hall could select three possible dates for each SYR and formal. However, this plan was rejected due to com­plications with the schedules of resident assistants, among vari­ous other reasons. 
Therefore, each hall's co­presidents scheduled their own dates for dances as they have done in past years, bearing in mind that they could not have a dance on a football weekend without the agreement of their hall's rector. 
The current schedule pre­sents many problems. Due to the conflict in dates, most halls will not be able to have the re­quired 70 percent of their hall at their SYR's. Five SYR's are scheduled for October 6, four are scheduled for October 7, and three are scheduled for De­cember 2. 
Beary and Schlatter asked each hall to call them immedi­ately with any schedule changes. They also stated that if the HPC is to organize dances next semester, a new format should be used. 
The HPC discussed other items on their agenda, includ­ing an announcement by Stu­dent Body Vice President Den-



Ireland 
continued from page 1 
In Ireland, the final exam is worth 80 percent of one's grade, while papers and home­work only make up the other 20 percent. 

Comparing her classes in Ireland -which are smaller, put more stress on attendance and involve more interaction between the students and pro­fessors -O'Shea says that the tip keep of' daily class work has been a new challenge for her. 
The social scene has been challenging and overwhelming for O'Shea. "It's very strange to see 300 people marching in a band screaming, 'Go Irish."' 
nis McCarthy that the student government will be sponsoring a picnic this Friday from 4:30-7 
p.m. at the Fieldhouse Mall. Three student bands will per­form at the picnic. 
McCarthy also discussed the new Football Ticket Exchange Program which allows students to trade their student tickets for general admission tickets for a $15 fee. Each student must bring the person who will be using the ticket with them to the ticket office on the second floor of the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center before the day of the game in order to ex­change the ticket. The ex­change will not be available for the Notre Dame-Boston College game. 
It was also announced that 200 student tickets will be made available at the Stepan Center on September 20 for the Notre Dame-Ohio State game at Ohio State. Students will be placed in a lottery for the tick~ ets. For more information, look in The Observer for future an­nouncements by the Student Union Board, the program's sponsor. 
Beary announced a new counseling service called Hearts and Homes Divided to be held in the University Counseling Center. The service will discuss the long and short term effects on children whose parents are divorced or going through a divorce. 
Anyone interested in the meeting should meet in room 316 of the Counseling Center on October 6. The meeting will last from 3:30-5 p.m. and will continue every Friday at the same time and place. For more information, call the Center at 1-7336. 
Since O'Shea is only eigh­teen, she misses out on the col­lege bar scenes. 
"It's tough because the cul­ture thinks of drinking very differently here," she said. "I miss going to the pubs and hanging out with my friends. 
But whoever said the Irish ---------------~---------~"""!""--------~~-.., 


were alcoholics was wrong.:U~ ~~~::e~~ve kegs of beer at 
Saint Mary's and The Zim­merman Foundation is paying for O'Shea's tuition. 
O'Shea was responsible for her own airfare and spending money. Shari Overdorf, the Ireland Program director, also played a large role in the exchange. 

Wednesday: 80's Night 
Frog & Ant T-Shirt Giveaway 
Thursday: $2 Night Friday: Captain's Night Saturday: Pre-Game Party! 

Open 7am to 3am. Watch the Game on our 8 foot TV. 
NATO jets bomb Serb depots 
By AIDA CERKEZ 
Associated Press 

SARAJEVO 
NATO jets bombarded Serb ammunition depots north of Sarajevo today, prompting the Russian government to accuse the alliance of committing genocide against the Bosnian Serbs. 
NATO started bombing Serb military targets on Aug. 30 to try to force the Serbs to with­draw all heavy weapons from within 12 miles of the besieged Bosnian capital. U.N. officials, however, say they have seen no movement. 
Russia, a traditional Serb ally, has been frustrated by its 



Binge 
continued from page 1 
activities, etc. 

• Working with Student Affairs or Student Activities to propose social alternatives to drinking that realistically would attract students, such as con­certs, plays, midnight basket­ball events, etc. 
"Students should not wait for the university to initiate cam­paigns against substance abuse, but should take the lead them­selves in discussing the issue and identifying ways to improve the culture on campus," the CASA report stated. "Demand that college be something more than just two or four years of drinking." 
"Shari has done everything to help me make the transi­tion," O'Shea said. 
"For only having 1,500 stu­dents, Saint Mary's offers many facilities and opportuni­ties for it's students," O'Shea said. "I am very fortunate to be here." 
inability to stop the NATO raids. On Monday, it proposed a resolution to the U.N. Security Council demanding immediate suspension of the bombing. Today, it issued a sharp condemnation of the continuing air raids. 
"As a result of this action, innocent civilians, including the most defenseless of them all, the children, are getting killed," a Russian government statement said. "Thus, the very survival of the current generation of Bosnian Serbs, who are actually facing geno­cide, is called into question." 
Separately, the Foreign Min­istry accused NATO of turning Bosnia into a "testing ground" for world domination. 
In Brussels, Belgium, a source at NATO headquarters said the United States wants to station F-117 stealth attack planes at Aviano air base in Italy for use against the Serbs but was having problems re­ceiving permission from the Italians. 
The use of the F-117-one of the most advanced attack planes in the world -would suggest NATO is ready to esca­late its raids if negotiations with the Bosnian Serbs don't progress. 
The planes, virtually unde­tectable by radar and highly precise, were used in the Gulf War to attack Baghdad. 


R D •d B 11 c s c 
eV. aVl U rre , • • • on ISLAM & CHRISTIANITY 
similarities and differences 7:15p.m. Wednesday, September 13 Stanford..Keenan Chapel 





All Welcome! 
sponsored by 4th Day 0 MPUS MINISTRY 
( ll'l I >II II I \l'l\'i"' -v 


SVI(eaters, Wall Hangings, Jewelry, Accessories, and Much Morel 
Guatemala•Peru•Mexico•Nepal•ihailand•lndia•Ecuador 
Incredible Prices! 
•3"/o 
of profits funds the education of 3 Guatemalan children (up to $1500 for 1995) 

•ANY 
coins tossed in our jar -Greatly Appreciatedllhey add upl 


Notre Dame  St. Mary's  
Nov. 27-Dec.2 ONLYI  September 12-15  
In front of Haggar • Windy or Rainy Weather ·  LeMan6 Hall  

Wednesday, September 13, 1995 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 


Crucifixes hung in Bavaria 
By ARTHUR ALLEN 
Associat<d Pross 
BONN, Germany 
Flouting a high court ruling, conservative Bavaria sent its children back to school Tuesday with crucifixes hang­ing on classroom walls and a new law to keep them there. 
The government in Ger­many's largest state set the stage for a new battle over the powers of church and state by introducing legislation even broader than the rule rejected by the Constitutional Court on Aug. 10. 
That rule -a 1968 school regulation requiring classroom crucifixes in Bavaria -was struck down as coercive. The high court said it forced chil­dren to "learn under the cross." 
Bavaria, a largely Roman Catholic state that clings to its traditions, is the only state where it is mandatory for the crucifix to he displayed. The high court's ruling upsP.t Roman Catholics in other regions of Germany where the cross hangs in public by tradition. 
The cross is the Bavarian equivalent of "Mom, the flag, and apple pie" in the United States -a surefire vote win­ner, said Josef Joffe, a senior editor at the newspaper Suddeutsche Zeitung in Munich. 
The proposed law argues that the constitution leaves education to the state. It also says Bavaria has the duty to require class­rooms to hang crucifixes "as a symbol of Christian values in education and an expression of Bavaria's cultural traditions." 
Opponents call the legislation anti-democratic but conserva­tives, who dominate the legisla­ture, plan to pass it this year. 
Joffe said conservatives might be using the issue to challenge the authority of the Constitu­tional Court, a relatively liberal group. 
Bavaria enjoys more auton­omy than Germany's other states, the result separatist ten­dencies throughout its history. Officially it is known as a "free state," with the power to gov­ern itself in matters reserved elsewhere in Germany for the federal government. 
As Bavarian children re­turned from summer recess Tuesday, none of their parents complained about the 40,000 crosses hanging in the class­rooms, said Peter Erhardt, 

Tired ofyour friends? Go to Ireland! 
Ireland Program 
Information Sessions: 
Sept. 12 Sept 13 7:00p.m. 7:00p.m. Room 303 Montgomery Theatre Haggar College LaFortune Student Center Center Saint Mary's Campus Notre Dame Campus 
Students discuss study at St. Patrick's College, Maynooth, Ireland. Everyone welcome! 
spokesman for the state educa­tion ministry. 
Not all agreed, however, with the state's pious handling of the affair. 
"They use the fuss to avoid dealing with more serious problems, like building play­grounds," said Gerda Shusser, 34, as she led her 7-year-old daughter into the Farinelli ele­mentary school in Munich. 
Mrs. Schusser is one of an estimated 450,000 Germans who have left the Roman Catholic Church during the past three years. She said she was indifferent to the crucifix. 
Hiltrud Priebke, director of an Augsburg school where Turkish children are a strong minority, said the dispute offered parents a chance to consider the depth of their reli­gious belief. 
"A lot of them have never re­ally thought about their reli­gious feelings or the feelings of others," Ms. Priebke said. 
Bavaria is home to 6,500 Jews and hundreds of thou­sands of Muslim refugees and immigrants. In many of Ms. Priebke's classes, the crucifix hangs alongside photographs of mosques or quotations from the Koran. 

UN: Hole in ozone twice last year's size 
'By~OLYN HENSON Auoclined Ptess 
''W!:!t,,i:4,, .,,,!if\l!\1!;, GENEVA 
' ' The hole in the earth's ozone layer is growing faster than ever n.n.d is already twice the size it was this time last year, the U.N. weather agency said Tuesday. Ozo11e, a gas in the ~trato­sphere, prevents harmful ul· ttaviolet radiation from reach~ ing the earth. Its depletion, caused in large part by indus­trial ·chemicals, is believed to increase the incidence of skin cancer and cataracts. The hole, first observed over Antarctica in the 1980s, has reappeared each September and October since then. With the onset of winter in the polar region, temperatures plung in the stratosphere and hasten ozone depletion. The hole is getting bigger despite a reduction in ozone· destroying chemicals such as chlorine and bromine because these chemicals have a life of 60 to 100 years. Sc> far the hole has expand· 
ed to 3.9 million square miles -roughly the size of Europe -according to the World Meteorological Organization. 
At that rate, the hole could surpass the record 24 million square miles it reached at the end of September last year, the U.N. agency said. 
The accelerated spread of the hole has surprised but not alarmed experts, who predict the ozone layer will get even worse before It recovers. 
"From the end of July through August and early September ozone levels In this polar region have depleted by an average of 1 percent a day ... more rapidly than ever before," said Rumen Bojkov, special adviser on ozone to the agency. 
"Every 1 percent drop in ozone means roughly 1.3 per­cent to 1.5 percent more ultraviolet radiation reaching the surface," said Bojkov. 
He said each l percent in· crease in ultraviolet radiation is thought to increase chances of skin cancer and eye cataracts by 2 percent. 

Endeavour satellite shut down 
By MIKE DRAGO with most functions turned off Associated Press to prevent the spacecraft from tumbling out of control. SPACE CENTER, Houston The spacecraft had been tilt­
A dish-shaped research ing 20 degrees out of its proper satellite flying free from space plane. shuttle Endeavour was shut Ground controllers suspected down by ground controllers the problem was caused by today after it overheated and heat buildup related to either began flying at the wrong the satellite's electronics exper­angle. iments or heating from the sun. 
The $25 million Wake Shield After a cool-down period, the Facility, which has had inter­satellite, flying some 40 miles mittent communications prob­behind Endeavour, was ex­lems since its release from the pected to steady its own flight shuttle on Monday, was path. switched into a "safe mode," That had not happened by 
midday, however. Nonetheless, "the Wake Shield is not in any danger at this point," ·said NASA spokesman Rob Navias. 
The 12-foot dish satellite, op­
erated through remote com­
mands from the ground, is us­

Yoube theJudge! 
on Trial ing the vacuum of space to make super-thin semiconductor 
films. 
Because of the expected pris­tine conditions in its wake, the semiconductor material should be purer than any produced on Earth. Such film could eventu-
Will (6 Testament 
A Life after Death Comedy 
Come and hear 



Phillip E. Johnson 
Professor of Law, UC Berkeley Author of Darwin on Trial (19 9 3) Reason in the Balance (19 9 S) 

7:30 Rm. 101 DeBartolo· Monday, September 18 
also noon 'till 1 pm in the Law School Court Room on: 
Date: Sept. I 7 
]urispmdence ,-wd Evolutionism 
Time: 7:30 Place: Little Theatre 

Sponsored by: 
171C Gmduate Student Union Intellectual Life Committee, The Law School, 111e Centerfor tlze Philosophy ofReligion and the Maritain Center 
ally lead to speedier computers. 
Astronauts overcame shaky data communications between the Wake Shield and ground controllers on Monday to set the satellite free from Endeav­our. They stood by today in case communications broke up again and ground controllers need the astronauts to send commands. 
The astronauts are schedule to pick the craft back up Wednesday. 
Physicists are attempting to grow seven wafers of semicon­ductor film on the back side of the satellite. Each wafer, grown atom-by-atom over up to eight hours, should be about 3 inches wide and one-1OOth the thick­ness of a human hair. 
When the Wake Shield shut itself off, it had just finished producing a third semiconduc­tor film and was about to start on a fourth. 
Because the satellite release came nearly two hours late Monday, the baking time for the first wafer was reduced, leav­ing it thinner than planned. 
by 
Fredric Stone 
& 
William Shakespeare 
--t;It­ 
SAINT  
MARY'S  
Cost: Students  $3.00  COLLEGE NOTIII OAhU. IN  
General  $4.00  
Call for ticket Info 284-4626  

Wednesday, September I 3, 1995 
page 8 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS 
Organizers admit failure in state AIDS program 

Administrators lack control in spending 
By SCOTT CHARTON Associated Press 
JEFFERSON CITY, Mo. 
A state-run program that helped nearly 1,400 AIDS pa­tients with rent, food and health care has gone broke and administrators acknowledged they failed to control spending. 
"This program just got away. from us," Coleen Kivlahan, the state health director, said Mon­day. "It's very sad, it's very embarrassing and very real. This will have a real impact on real people." 
Already, prescriptions have gone unfilled, dental appoint­ments have been canceled and some people who depended on the money are worried. 
"Some people are wondering 

Japanese abandon stake in Rockefeller Center deal 
By FARRELL KRAMER Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
The Japanese company that controls. Rockefeller Center abandoned its stake today un­der a deal that would transfer title of the famed office ·com­plex to a high-profile American investment troika. 
If successful, the deal would end the center's four-month odyssey in bankruptcy court and mark the most striking re­treat by a major Japanese com­pany from an American in­vestment. 
It also would spell the end of any ownership role by the Rockefeller family, a dynasty of American capitalism that made the 12-building midtown Man­hattan landmark an icon of power and prestige. 
Poised to take over is a group led by investor Samuel Zell, who has built a fortune by ac­quiring distressed real estate; General Electric Co. and its Na­tional Broadcasting Co. sub­sidiary; and the Walt Disney Co. 
Rockefeller Group Inc., con­trolled by Mitsubishi Estate Co., announced a plan to surrender the Art Deco property to Rocke­feller Center Properties Inc., the trust that holds its $1.3 bil­lion mortgage. 
"It's a little bit surprising that it's come to this, that they're willing to walk away without slogging it a little fur­ther through the bankruptcy," said Wayne Teetsel, an analyst at B.D.S. Securities Corp. in New York, a brokerage firm. 
Rockefeller Center Properties Inc. said today it signed an agreement with the group led by Zell. The Zell group would invest $250 million in the prop­erty. The new venture would seek bankruptcy court approval to take title. 
GE and NBC, among the most 
famous tenants of the center, 
reached an agreement in prin­ciple to join the Zell investment group, said a statement by Rockefeller Center Properties. 
Disney is already included in the Zell group, which has said that the entertainment giant has its eye on managing or leasing Radio City Music Hall. The 5,874-seat theater is one of the prime tourist destina­tions in the center. 
The center also is known among New Yorkers and visi­tors from around the world for its annual Christmas tree light­ing and a jewel-box of a skat­ing rink. 
Rockefeller Center Properties said that in light of the uncer­tainties surrounding the bank­ruptcy court proceedings, it is suspending dividend payments for the third quarter. 
The swirl of announcements came as a bankruptcy court hearing convened on the prop­erty's future. 
"The transaction would per­mit us to restore the financial health of Rockefeller Center by reducing its debt load and strengthening its capital struc­ture," said Peter D. Linneman. chairman of Rockefeller Center Properties. 
Japanese companies includ­ing Mitsubishi invested huge sums in real estate during the 1980s, when prices were high and affluent investors from Japan were pouring money into everything from Hollywood stu­dios to American golf courses. 
Some Americans saw the 1989 Rockefeller Center pur­chase as an affront to the na­tion's pride and a symbol of 
U.S. economic decline. 
As real estate prices fell, however, real estate investors had trouble paying their bills. That was true for Rockefeller Center's owners, who sought bankruptcy court protection on May 11. 
The bankruptcy proceeding set off a high-profile battle for control of the center. 
University o Notre Dame International Study Program in 

INNSBRUCK, AUSTRIA 
11 Stories from Abroad 11 With Professor Marie -Antoinette Kremer 
Wednesday September 13, 1995 4:30pm 114 O'Shaughnessy 
Returning students will be on hand to answer questions. 
how they will eat," said Dave Peters, executive director of the AIDS Project of Springfield, which had 257 people on the program. "It's devastating to them.... They're very upset." 
The program for people who are HIV-positive or who have AIDS was funded by a $2.2 mil­lion federal grant. It was in­tended for people who don't have private insurance or other sources for care. 
Kivlahan said problems be­gan last year when controls once imposed on the program were lifted to make more peo­ple eligible -and assure that no unspent grant money lapsed back to Washington. 
It took only three months for this year's money to run out ­including $200,000 spent to cover a deficit from last year. Yet spending continued into August, piling up perhaps $1.9 million in debts. 
Kivlahan said advisory panels made up of local AIDS agencies pushed to make more people eligible in April 1994, after the program wound up its first year with unspent money. 
They agreed to dump a limit on prescription spending and allow payments for "nontradi­tional treatment." And they expanded the maximum allow­able income of recipients. 
However, there was no sys­tem to keep track of grant spending being approved by some 60 publicly paid "care coordinators" across the state. 




Elderly split on knowing diagnosis 
Study asks seniors about 


medical beliefs 
By LINDSEY TANNER Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
Many elderly blacks and whites believe doctors should tell their patients ifthey have a fatal illness, while Korean and Mexican Americans are more likely to think the patient shouldn't be told the awful truth, a study found. 
Researchers surveyed 800 people at least 65 years old to examine beliefs about medical decision-making among Amer­icans of Korean, Mexican, Eu­ropean and African descent. 
In an article published in Wednesday's Journal of the American Medical Association, they questioned the standard practice of doctors telling pa­tients the truth about their di­agnosis and prognosis, as well as the risks and benefits of proposed treatments. 
Korean and Mexican Ameri­cans were more likely to believe that patients should not be told of a fatal diagnosis and should not be burdened with making decisions about the use of life-support technol­ogy. 
The two groups also were more likely to believe that fam­ily members, rather than the patient alone, should be re­sponsible for making major medical decisions, said re­searchers red by Dr. Leslie Blackball, an internist and as­sistant professor of medicine at the University of Southern California. 
Only 35 percent of the Korean Americans and 48 per­cent of the Mexican Americans believed a patient should be told they were going to die, compared with 63 percent of the African Americans and 69 percent of the European Americans. 
The researchers didn't speculate on why the groups felt that way. But they con­cluded that the doctrine of informed consent fails to take into account cultural and eth­nic beliefs that put more emphasis on family than indi­vidual autonomy. 
"Insisting on the patient au­tonomy model of medical deci­sion-making when that model runs counter to the deepest values of the patient may ironically be another form of the paternalistic idea that 'doctor knows best,'" the study said. 
The study was conducted at USC's Pacific Center for Health Policy and Ethics, where Blackball is a bioethicist, using interviews with 200 people in each of four senior citizen cen­ters in the Los Angeles area. 
The researchers' conclusion: "We suggest that physicians ask patients if they wish to be informed about their illness and be involved in making decisions about their care or if they prefer that their family handles such matters." 
In an accompanying editori­al, Georgetown University law professor Lawrence Gostin said malpractice concerns should not push doctors into forcing information on patients. 
"Courts have expressly de­termined that physicians should not be liable for failure to disclose resulting from the patient's specific request not to be informed," Gostin said., ""·· 
Jane Delgado, president of the National Coalition of His­panic Health and Human Ser­vices Organizations, praised the research. 
Tom DeLuca Take a journey with hypnosis... Make a date with your imagination!  
Dates: Wed. Sept. 27 Thurs. Sept. 28 Time: 8:00pm Place: 101 DeBartolo Tickets: $3 at LaFortune Information Desk  



VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, September 13, 1995 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 

NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
John Lucas 
Managing Editor Bwincu Manager 
Elizabeth Regan Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Edi10r .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ......................Jcn Mackowiak Sporu Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Acc.:nt Editor ......................... Krista Nanncry Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo F.ditor .................................. Rob Finch Observer Marketing Director .......••. Pete Coleman Saint Mary'• Editor .................... Patti Carson Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It docs not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned cdi­14lrials reprcsom the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available ro all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through lcucrs is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD 
Alcoholjust a small part ofa larger issue 
!
didn't anticipate striking a resounding chord last week when I talked about how I felt about alcohol consumption and alcoholism. I didn't anticipate much of a response and yet I received a good amount of feedback. 
So I thank all of you who wrote, cp.lled, phoned and e-mailed me how you felt and your views, regardless if we agreed or not. 
Despite what some of you think, the idea is not to get everybody to think like me or do as I do. The idea was to get those of you who drink to start thinking about what you're doing. 
The biggest gripe I got was from those who didn't see anything wrong with the occasional gulp of the bottle or sip of the wine. I say "more power to you." 
T
If that is what you wish to do, then so be it. That is a risk you are taking not me. Hey, if you can assert that much self-control, God Bless you, 'cause there are those who think they have it, but have no such thing. It is more than what it is. hen there are those like Dan O'Hare (The Observer, 9/12) who say and I quote "it's no big deal...what goes on at Notre Dame is no big deal...lt's just a bunch of little kids getting their first experiences with alcohol. 
They will get over it. If they don't they'll die, or live miserable lives ... " Well, Dan, I think it is a big deal and I think you know it is, too. It affected your life, as well, because you don't drink because of what happened to your friend. 
I am not here to judge anyone, but to let people know that you don't have to drink to have fun, or have a good time, or to be accepted, or to be happy. 
And in the same manner you don't have to drink because you're not having fun or you're not having a good time or you're not happy. 
I
I've seen with my own two God-given eyes, what alcohol does to nice caring people, people that are my friends and family. And it all comes down to that getting drunk is a lot more trouble than what it is worth. t is not that I am upset about anything, but one thing that really pisses me off is the whole "How-dare-you-judge-peo­ple-who-are-not-financially-well-off-or­
had-loving-fami­lies-or-everything­they-wanted-and­have-a-carefree­life-like-you." 
Anyone who knows me knows that I am not one of those Domers, if a Domer at all. As a strong Black woman on Notre Dame's campus, 
those two situations are not in my story, but that's for another day. 
I say what I say from my own experi­ence. I see what alcohol and drugs did and still are doing, to not only Notre Dame, but my Black communities and neighborhoods. I say "my" because of the person I choose to be, it is my responsibility to claim them as mine and to do something about it. 
You see, alcohol is just a small part of it. We all should know what a history of passivity and doing "what has always been done" or "what everyone else does" can do and has done. We live in a society where everyone wants to be cool. 
Everyone wants to have the latest and the greatest, the newest and the coolest, and we don't ever stop to think about what it is we are doing, or God forbid, the consequences. We just do, get in trouble later, then blame it on some­body else. 
A lot of times, my friends and I talk about revolution and the revolutionary processes. What has to be done? What sparks it? What does it accomplish? 
In class we discuss how we as individ­uals in this society don't really make drastic choices for ourselves, but instead just drudge along in the flow of life and do what society says you should be doing. 
One of my professors said most of us don't go to college to get educated, we go to college to get specially trained so we can get a nice car, the beautiful spouse, the big house, the 2.5 kids, but a job that we absolutely hate. Highly trained and very uneducated. 
Alcohol is just a small part of it. It's a very big fish in very big pond, with lots of other big fish. I don't buy into the whole Generation X thing, but I do think our different cultures are evolving in the wrong direction. 
B
It's like society is a wide stream that is flowing quite strongly downhill and most of us are passive ho-hum fish just letting it take us on down and then we think it's cool. ut we should be like the salmon. The salmon fight their way up stream to lay their eggs, which are seeds to the future, in the hopes that they won't just float down stream but will keep that spirit of challenge in them for the next generation to take up. 
Like Maya Angelou wrote "I am the hopes and the dreams of a slave" and I feel like because of who I am and who I need to be, I can't be slippin' any. Because of who we are and who we need to be, and what we're up against, we can't be slippin' either, and that's all I'm saying. 
Cristiane Likely is a senior who lives in Pasquerilla West Hall. She can be reached over e-mail at: clikely@artin. helios. nd. edu 

Cristiane Likely 
• 000NESBURY fLASHBACKS 
THe TRUTH 15, fVlKS, I HAPN'T 
APPRa!ATWtuHATA GREAT 
llfA~ HOMfJ IS! /JtUfJvt /rl/5, I mtT 
£vtr<.A1At<e THAT!rff5TAKf;A6AIN.' 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
1UCAU-7He
I WVtHIM, 
LAwYeR. YOU
8l.ITCAN 
aJTOffH/'3
IA/e&flA 
fOO{J '3UPP~Y.
COURT 
(]R£l{]R~ 
I 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"An unhatched egg is to me the greatest challenge in 
life." 
-E. B. White 




VIEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, September 13, 1995 
• DESIDERATA 
Sellout? Making money while maintaining morals 
E
ver since age fifteen, I have had a special affinity for the band, Ministry. And while they are not really a band to whom I look for inspirational words of wisdom, they do sometimes offer them. Throughout the years, for example, I have listened to Alain Jourgensen shriek: "Don't be commer­cial, or sell out...Be your own person!" And I have always aspired to do just that. 
But lately, I won­
swear they are talk­der if I haven't dis-ing to me. No one appointed Alain, forced me to go to and concomitantly, law school, and had
Kirsten
myself. I seriously I done otherwise, I fear that I might would not be in this have sold out and situation. I chose it. 

Dunne
given in to societal And so every expectations. Let weekend I wake up me tell you why. at 7:15 or so -or at As some of you least I make an 
B
because in large part they make me who I am. y my spirit, used to be free, is suffo­cating right now. As an associate attorney at a middle-sized law firm, I am expected to put clients' perceptions above my own wishes. And, because I need to make money right now, I am trying to do just that. Sell out! Sell out! When I hear Ministry scream these 
words today, I could 
know, I do not function well in the morning. I would not call myself lazy simply because I prefer to rise late, though. For although I sleep until 11:30 or so when I am given my druthers, I also stay up until about 3 a.m. I feel more productive this way, and my day is so much more enjoyable. 
Although I went through law school, and I am not sorry I did, I have a very creative side which I do not like to see overwhelmed by practicalities. I have a very distinctive style of dress. I enjoy writing poetry and designing greeting cards. And, as is the case with many innovative people, my mind tends to work in an eccentric manner. My friends largely appreciate these qualities in me, and I cherish them deeply 
effort to. Not that I think I will ever get used to these hours. My internal clock is obstinate. But at work, they don't understand that type of thing. So in order to please them, I go by their schedule and arrive in the office, bright (NOT) and early at 9 a.m. 
It might help me get enthused if, at that early hour, I could at least feel good about the way I looked. But they take care of that for me, too; I am asked to abide by a dress code and, although reluctantly, I comply. I suppose I am lucky in that my firm is relatively laid­back as far as law firms go, They don't mind my hair or make-up; or at least they do not say they do. And the work­clothes which I have found might not be considered acceptable at all firms, as they are not the starchy, conservative things you probably think of when you envision a business suit. (I absolutely refuse to wear those.} But still, they are not "me;" and that is not supposed to matter anyway. The most important thing is whether the clients approve of us because only if they approve will they retain us. Sell out!­
I
And there are times when, on their schedule and in their clothes, I cannot even say what is on my mind. The peo­ple I work with are great, don't get me wrong; but oftentimes, they think differ­ently of me. And if a touchy issue is at hand, I often feel that it is better to keep the peace with my co-workers, with whom I have spent so much time, than to disagree. As someone who speaks up for civil liberties all the times, I am ashamed to engage constantly in this task of self-censorship -the very evil of our Founding Fathers sought to guard against when they drafted the First Amendment. t certainly appears like I have given up my individuality to the system. But upon a closer look, I hope that you will agree with me that I really have not. 
I went to law school because I have always aspired to help the downtrodden and oppressed in society. That has not changed. I loved studying the law, and I want to use my knowledge to help oth­ers. At the same time, I want to enjoy life -to express myself freely, to work on a flexible schedule, and to devote a sig­nificant amount of time to my creative side. I feel like I can achieve these twin goals eventually, and that I can do this best by teaching. 
I
But I can only progress toward these ends if I continue to do as I am doing right now. For one, I need money. owe a tremendous amount, and I must repay it before I can think about further career moves. For another, I need "real world" experience. It seems to be a pre­requisite for almost any sort of teaching position, and whether I like it or not I guess I do see the value in it. In other words, then, I have to work for now, and I am sure it will be a more pleasant and meaningful experience if I do not fight it. And I think I can overcome the nega­tives by keeping a positive attitude and by seeing my current situation as a nec­essary stepping stone to further fulfill­ment -which, after all, is what it is. n this article, I have spoken mainly about myself, but I fervently hope that my thoughts have some readers as well. So, if you feel as if something you are doing right now is completely meaning­less or it makes you unhappy, please don't become discouraged. Hold on to your dreams, for hope will keep them alive, and when all else seems to fail, they will keep you going. I, for one, believe that my dreams will come true. And as long as I do not sacrifice that thought, I have not been robbed of my individuality. To Alain Jourgensen's relief and definitely to my own, I am still my own person. May we all be able to at least achieve that goal, for in the end, it is the most important one. 
Kirsten Dunne, ND '92 and '95, is working at Goldberg. Weisman, & Cairo, Ltd. in Chicago. 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Alcohol issue requires thought, reassessment of personal usage 
I
Dear Editor: n her Sept. 6 "Viewpoint" letter, Cristiane Likely encourages the mem­bers of the Notre Dame community to examine their attitudes toward alcohol consumption. Although I disagree with her implicit assumption about the intrinsic evils of alcohol, I applaud her efforts to challenge the widespread acceptance of excessive and underage drinking. 
A casual examination of The Observer supports the relevance of Likely's con­cerns. Consider the front page article from Sept. 6, "Off-campus transition made easy." In the third column, excessive alco­h"ol constimption receives an implicit endorsement: "He never discouraged us to have parties because that is his biggest form of advertisement." Indeed. 
A more disturbing attitude finds expres­sion in an article on the readjustment of students returning from studies abroad. Jennifer Lewis encourages readers to "imagine the frustration of using your expired fake ID and being denied at Bridget's after having the liberty of enjoy­ing a beer with friends for an entire year." 
I
Such a traumatic problem arises because: "Some students were lucky enough to have reached the legal drinking age while overseas. 'It would have been so much harder to adjust if I was not twenty-one,' said (Allison) Lambert. 'I don't think I could have done it." Really? want to make it clear that I am not argu­ing that either Jennifer Lewis or Allison Lambert has a drinking problem. But, yes, Cristiane, this community, in addition to many of its members, has a problem. 
I do not pretend to have a complete answer, but part of the solution must il)-clude awareness and rejection of The Observer ads and notes extolling the virtues of alcohol-pictures for "turning 21 today" birthday bashes, top ten lists of drunken activities, and personal ads such as the one on page 12 seeking alcohol ("Hey man, you got any bud?") 
Though I cannot produce any statistical evidence, I remain confident that few members of the fabled Notre Dame family have completely escaped the devastating effects of alcohol. My own parents were nearly killed by a drunk driver who failed to stop at an intersection. I have known fellow church members who died in car accidents to which alcohol was a con­tributing factor. 
M
Alcohol can contribute to injuries in other ways, too; once, I almost ran over a Notre Dame student so intent on carrying his three cases of beer that he walked right in front of my car. Over the past few years, the Notre Dame community itself has been shocked by the deaths and injuries caused by alcohol-related car accidents. any Notre Dame students have grown up in homes in which alcohol abuse destroyed the lives of their family mem­bers. Football weekends even include AA meetings, yet excessive public drinking continues. One could discuss at length the shattering, though perhaps less visible, effects of random hook-ups and date rape often linked to alcohol. 
Lest my intentions be misconstrued, I wish to reaffirm my belief that alcohol is one of God's many good gifts. Nor do I have any desire to participate in wide­spread condemnation of all I see at Notre Dame, though I am tempted to criticize the inclusion of a horoscope in the news­paper of an intellectual community, and a Christian one at that. But such a matter pales in comparison to the importance of addressing the havoc wreaked by irresponsible alcohol consumption on this campus. 
Along with Cristiane, I challenge you, the individual reader of this letter, to address your own alcohol consumption practice. 
MARVIN BOLT Graduate student in History and Philosophy of Science 






ACCENT 
Wednesday, September 13, 1995 page 11 
• BOOKS, BOOKS, BOOKS••• 
Darners: Notre Dame uncovered 
By BRYCE SEKI 
Accent Literary Critic 
Three years ago, journalist Kevin Coyne came to Notre Dame to see what America's great Catholic institu­tion was all about. What was it about this place that made it so special to its alumni and even to those who don't ovtm know it's in Indiana? For a year Coyne stayed on campus, indulging himself in the Fighting Irish lifestyle, and aquainting himself with everyone from University president Monk Malloy right down to Jimmy Z .. the Oak Hoom staffer. Where most books on Notre Dame are focused on its foot­ball legacy or its strong Catholic tradi­tion, Coyne beautifully chronicles his nxperience under the Golden Dome in his book, Domers: A Year at Notre Dame by focusing in on what life is like for the Notre Dame student. 
Throughout Domers, Coyne gives lit­tle tidbits of Notre Dame's 150-year history. lie tells of Father Sorin's founding of the school and the reign of Father llesburgh up to the current presidency of Father Malloy. Historical accounts of the develop­ment of the Golden Dome and the Basilica of the Sacred Heart are given as well as the changes made to make the University what it is today, one of the most well-respected intellectual institutions in the United States. 
Domers also objectively discusses some of the University's many dilem­mas. Is Notre dame losing its Catholic Identity? Is the 87% white student body too homogeneous? Coyne even tackles the GLND/SMC controversy, stating both sides of the issue and allowing readers to examine their own opinions. He includes student responses to some of these issues as well as their unique views on pari­etals, single sex residences and the university's alcohol policies. 
But what makes Domers so special is that it is truly about Notre Dame students and its faculty. Coyne tells about some of Notre Dame's more famous faculty members, highlighting 
T. V. Morris and his radically hip style of teaching philosophy to his freshman students. Monk Malloy, Father Bonaventure Scully, and Father Joe Ross are given ample space as well for their teaching styles and interaction with their students. Many of the stu­dents Coyne chooses to follow around for a year come directly from these teachers' classes. By this, Coyne is able to see the full range of Notre Dame students, from newly arrived freshmen to the seniors and graduate students concerned with life after col­lege. Coyne listens to campus music (U2, HEM, Joy Division), frequents stu­dent parties (on campus and oro. and even attends their SYH's and Formals. Coyne ventures off into South Bend and even notes some of the more pop­ular bars and weekend hot spots. 
Domers shows the agony and the ecstacy of the student, from the exhil­aration of winning the big game against Penn State to the heart break­ing loss of a dear friend. Coyne is able to enter the student body's mind and put into words the most tender aspects of Notre Dame, a family-like student body, a deep respect for tradi­tion and a deep appreciation for each other. He vividly shows what sets apart Notre Dame students from those of other college campuses. 
Domers is a real account of what Notre Dame is. Not just gold helmets and priests, but a university with a Jot of character and mystique. To the outsider, it is an excellent portrayal of what it would be like to be part of one of America's most unique and intrigu­ing universities. To the Domer, the book is a constant reminder of just how special "God, country, Notre Dame" really is. 


cS!udenls explore Xo!re 7Jame's .9r1s£
greland 
roofs during ayearlong advenlure 
By JENNIFER LEWIS "The students live so close to "We met students from every 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor each other that there was no country," said McNamee. "It 
effort required to make was amazing how many cul­
T
here is no avoiding Irish friends." tures we experienced just by culture when you're The Saint Mary's Ireland pro­being in Ireland." immersed in it. gram is a year-long commit­Without the language barrier, 
Last year twenty-three stu­ment. the students became more fa­
dents from Saint Mary's and The Irish school year begins miliar with the culture. 
Notre Dame spent eight months in early October and ends in According to Grant, she picked 
in the International Study May, with a three week va-. the Ireland program for obvious 
Program at St. Patrick's College cation at Christmas and a two­reasons. "Like a lot of Notre 
in Maynooth, Ireland. week vacation at Easter. Dame and Saint Mary's stu­
"Saint Pat's is a very quaint "You get so much more out of dents, my relatives came from 
eollege," said junior Diane the program if you are there for Ireland. I did not make the de­
Grant. "The original college a year," said McNamee. "The cision to go until the end of my 
looks like an old historic castle, first semester you are just get­freshman year. I wanted to see 
but has a modernized addition ting used to the idea of being in the beautiful country my par­
eonnected by a bridge." another country. It is not until ents talked about." 
The students lived in co-ed the second semester that you The Ireland Program is de­
apartment complexes in really get to grasp the culture, signed primarily for sopho­
Maynooth, which is only 14 travel through Europe, and mores, but juniors are accepted 
miles west of Dublin. The five take more risks." with permission of their de­
IJedroom apartments are al­own kitchenettes, so students "I liked the Saint Mary's pro­The Saint Mary's and Notre partment chairpersons. 
ready furnished upon arrival. are responsible for making gram because it was close Dame students blend right into Is there any other reason to 
The students bring their own their own meals. Some of the enough to Dublin, but you lived the Irish culture. Unlike other go to Ireland? "Guinness," 
towels and bed linens. students shared their flats with in a small town," said Morrissey abroad programs, their classes McNamee said, "is reason 
All the apartments have their students from other countries. Junior Jim McNamee. intermix with Irish students. enough." 
Jhe romance andmagic of7rance

~ngers 
caplures !he£earls ofyoung :7/mericans 
T
By ANGIE KELVER participants in the program. to submit letters of recommen­while in Angers. France. There has been a big Saint Mary's Accent Editor Junior Patrick Kenney shared dation, go through an informal "The French are more in tune adjustment going back to Notre Schott's sentiment, "It is by far interview, and have taken an with happiness in everyday life, Dame academics," Schott said. he French language has the most incredible thing I have intermediate-level French whether it be sitting down to a Adjustment or no, these stu­long been billed the "lan­ever done. Every aspect of it course. long dinner or drinking a good dents would not have traded guage of love" by those was something new and differ­Upon arriving in France, the glass of wine. They find a lot of their time in Angers for any­who speak it and those who ent." Professor Paul McDowell students go through twenty-five enjoyment in the simple plea­thing. The closeness they share wish they did. This title holds a teaches a special class for the hours a week of intensive lan­sures," Kenney said. now and the experiences they special meaning for the Notre prospective Angers students, guage study for the first month, The students on the program had in France make the aver­Dame and Saint Mary's stu­preparing them stateside for in order to acclimate the stu­took the time to experience life age English-speaking person dents who chose to spend a their year abroad with inten­dents to the language. While to the fullest. "The lifestyle was jealous. year in the Angers. France sive language lessons. staying in Angers, students are so easygoing there. I did a lot of "I would like to go back soon I~rogram. "Our Angers program is in its placed with host families, traveling, and really got a because I do not want France 
"There are no words in the thirtieth year. Notre Dame has which gives them the opportu­chance to experience the cul­to become just a memory. I English or French language to a very strong and established nity to practice their French at ture," noted junior Amy Cox. want it to always be an active describe exactly how wonderful presence there," he said. the dinner table as well as form In fact, the group is now try­part of my life," Kenney said. It an experience it was," said ju­A large part of the program's ·close relationships with their ing to become accustomed to seems that the land of the "lan­nior Dominique Schott. strength is due to the caliber of host parents.The students espe­what has been called "reverse guage of love" will always hold 
This sentiment is wholeheart­the students and faculty. The cially enjoyed the relaxed culture-shock." a place in these participants' edly agreed upon by other program requires the students lifestyle they were able to lead "I really miss the life in hearts. 
/ 
ACC6NT
page 12 Wednesday, September 13, 1995 

Saint Mary's seniors find a new home on the fourth floor ofHoly Cross Hall 
By LESLIE FIELD Accent Writer 
To live off or not to live off? That is the question asked by countless numbers of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's juniors. While many stu­dents opt for a luxurious Campus View apartments (complete with impeccable perma-beer stained brown carpeting) or a charming home with sparkling new steel bars over the windows, others choose to stay on. 
After all, when will you ever again have the opportunity to live on a gorgeous campus surrounded by your friends? 
When will you be able to wake up for an eight o'clock class at ten min­utes 'til eight and be on time? There are bonuses to being on, even as a senior. 
The closing of Augusta Hall last year came as a disappointment to many Saint Mary's students who were looking forward to living in a senior hall with such benefits as no parietals. 
But just when they thought that their on campus luck was lost, along came fourth floor Holy Cross. As the only designated senior hall on campus, Fourth Floor provides the most convenient and luxu­rious housing. 
According to Betsy Killian, President of Holy Cross Senior Housing, "There has been great team work and support from the seniors on the floor which makes our job easy. We really appre­ciate their enthusiasm." 
Heather Durrie, Kell McDevitt and Paulett Raczkowski are the other three women representing Fourth Floor, which will soon have its own name, setting it apart from the other traditionally run halls. 
, According to Killian, a vote will take place in which the Fourth Floor residents will choose a name for the floor. Once the name has been cho­sen, an open house will be held for both seniors and underclasswomen to see the changes that have been made. So just what are the changes and why would they make a senior want to live on campus? Here is the impressive list from the Fourth 
Floor officers: 
-"The Barn," previously the most coveted quint on campus, is now a well-decorated lounge complete with beautiful new furniture, a T.V. 
' There has been great team work and support from the seniors on the floor which makes our job easy. We really appreciate their enthusiasm.' 
Betsy Killian 
and, a soon to come, historical Saint Mary's memorabilia wall (Even Dr. Hickey was impressed when he vis­ited). 
-newly finished hard wood floors 
in each room 
-a separate bike 
room -washers and dryers in the bath rooms (how convenient) -another smaller lounge with 
hopes of a third -new beds -24-hour access with a detex -fresh paint -the RA's don't go on rounds on 
fourth floor -the room sizes are great (rooms designed as doubles are now sin­gles) 
Kelly McDevitt, Fourth Floor Secretary, attributes much of the success of the floor to the resi­dents,"The seniors really respect each other. Everyone is grown up. It is fun to have everyone together," she said. 
Raczkowski also gave credit to the Residence Hall Association, "They have been very helpful in supporting us and have given us the funds we need to improve and monitor the exclusiveness of the floor," she said. 
The four have also worked with Caroline Blum and Alaina Higginbotham, Holy Cross Hall President and Vice President respectively, in order to talk through ideas and seek support. According to Killian, they have been very help­ful, along with Rachel Tenyer, Holy Cross Hall Director. 
Fourth Floor residents Jenn Farley and Kerry Patzke consider the floor to be the best of both worlds. 
Although most of their friends live off-campus, Farley and Patzke stayed on. 
"It is very convenient but we hear about how much fun it is being off, too," commented Farley. They also pointed out the responsibility of liv­ing in a house. 
And what do next years seniors think about the new senior housing? "I think its great, but I'm still living off campus. I have to experience the real world before I graduate," said Caroline Blum," and my senior 
comp will be done plus I'll be 
21! I think I'll have myself a 
good time!" 
Junior Abigail 
Fleming likes the 
Fourth Floor and 
hopes to live there next 
year. "I plan to take 
advantage of senior 
housing because of the 
freedoms similar to that of an 
It's a beautiful earn­
us and it is nice to 
ve the luxury of liv­
ing on it with special 
privileges, like Fourth 
Floor Holy Cross. I'm 
really looking forward to it," 
Fleming said. 
For Saint Mary's seniors, the 
options are endless. From the ele­
gance of Turtle Creek to the conve­
nience of fourth floor Holy Cross, 
Saint Mary's seniors continue to 
have the choice of where they want 
to spend their last year of college 
life. 
• ACCENT SPEAKS 
The London Goddess 
By SARAH CASH ORE Assistant Accent Editor 
No black taxis lurked around the corner, waiting to run me down as I inevitably failed to look right before crossing the street. Leinster Gardens was quiet as I opened the heavy door of number 33 and trudged up the stairs to Flat #4. The flat was dark and eerily silent as I walked toward our kitchen/living/dining room. I stared in horror at the piece of loose-leaf notebook paper taped to the door as I read the words which made my heart leap into my throat: SHOWER SCHEDULE. The first name on that list, next to the phrase "6:15 a.m.," was my own. 
I silently cursed myself for not rushing home to be a part of that Thursday night ritual, the making of the shower schedule, and I audibly cursed the cruelty of my flatmates for taking advantage of my absence by giving me the dreaded shower "pole position." Why, oh why did I have to live with six other girls, and why did we all have to have class on Friday mornings? 
London was a semester of firsts. It was, painful­ly, the first time I had ever been allotted a bath­room time -with seven girls sharing one toilet, one sink, and one pathetic trickle of water which pass­es for a shower, you've got to make some rules. It was the first time I lived in a city, the ftrst time my divine potential was recognized (by my perpetually sleepy and alarm clock-deficient flatmate, for whom I reset my alarm each morning and by whom I was rewarded with the words, "Sarah, you are a goddess!"), the first time I cooked for more than three people -actua.lly. it was the first time I cooked. 
London was also a semester of adjustments. Living in a highly racially, ethnically, and economi­cally diverse neighborhood (where, incidentally, I experienced another first, being mistaken for a prostitute while wearing sweatpants and carrying groceries, no less) was a distinct adjustment. Instead of getting up minutes before class, I had to adjust to commuting to class, no easy task when subway service was routinely interrupted by mys­terious "signal failures." Despite the apparent lin­guistic similarities, I had to adapt to living in a for­eign culture where words and actions had com­pletely different connotations (never use the word "napkin" in Britain unless you're ABSOLUTELY sure of what it means). I was faced with adjusting to British professors and their distinctive manner of teaching, and, most importantly, I had to adjust to studying, living, eating, and sleeping with 7 4 people whom I barely knew. 
In spite of all these changes, or more accurately, 
because of them, my semester in London was 
undoubtedly my most rewarding experience as a 
Notre Dame student. London itself continually 
amazed me. The city was our classroom, and my 
classes and professors enabled and encouraged 
me to take advantage of London's innumerable 
opportunities. 
I became much more independent as the semes­
ter progressed, particularly following my some­
times harrowing but always interesting European 
Vacation experiences. If two of my flatmates and I 
could successfully complete a journey through the 
tiniest towns in Wales where most of the towns­
people hadn't seen an American since World War 
II, if I could communicate in extremely bad French 
with two random men in Killarney, Ireland, only to 
discover that my companions and I had just biked 
several "kilometres" in the wrong direction, I 
could survive anything. 
There was a distinctive feeling to that semester 
which is very difficult to recapture in South Bend, 
and not merely because of the obvious geographic 
differences. I don't know if it was the European 
mentality which rubbed off on us, or if it was our 
mixture of majors and personalities, but my class­
mates and I defmitely became more relaxed away 
from Notre Dame. Instead of sequestering our­
selves in the library, we studied in the park; 
instead of rushing to and from the dining hall, we 
spent hours over dinner, talking and getting to 
know each other; instead of barely noticing our 
surroundings as we slipped into routines, we 
walked through some of the oldest and most beau­
tiful parts of a city rich in architectural beauty and 
history. London is a city for the gods, and each day 
in London, I was a goddess. 
The Accent column should appear every Wednesday. 
Wednesday, September 13, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre -. Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
College Football Hall of Fame 
Needs Volunteers 
Call 235-9999 
WEEKLY· MIDWAY TAVERN 810W4TH MISH. 
MON THE JAZZ FIRM 7:30·9:30 WED OPEN JAM 9:30 THURS IRISH MUSIC 9 2BLKS S.OF 100 CTA 255-0458 NEED ID 
Newly remodeled Bed and Breakfast located In Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. 5 rooms with private baths, space available for football game wknds. 1-800-418· 9487 
QUALITY CHILD CAAEJPAESCHOOLING-loving mom with certificate In early child· hood education and lour years of preschool teaching experience has openings for children 18 months and older. Farmington Square home. 271·8437. 
If you are going to see : 
THE MAIDS @ SMC this 
Thur/FrVSat-f>lease bring your 
own cushion to Dalloway' 
Bed & bfst. lovely room with 
private bath lor two people (219­
272·5989) Parents or friends of 
UNO & St Mary's 
NO @ WASHINGTON • 2 Obi Ams Ramada Seattle Oct 6-7. Brunch lor 4 at Dukes on Lake & boat cruise to/from game. No game tkts. $600. Mike (206)575-0711. 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST: MY DAILY (FRANKLIN) 
PLANNER. CALL SCOTT AT 288· 
7261. 
LOST! Lost! 
Have you seen my car keys. They 
are GM keys on a unique keychain 
that Is a laminated cardboard 
teardrop advertising INCREDIBLE 
UNIVERSE. 
Have no Idea where I lost them, but II you lind them call Mike at 631­4541. Thanks. 
LOST! Pair of eyeglasses. 
Gold frames, brown carrying case 
Call Rich at 4-2153 
Found: gold tie holder outside 
DeBartolo comp. lab doors. Call 
Harriet at 596-0622 to identify and 
clalm,or tv msg at WSND (631· 
7342) 
Lost a Gold Chain Bracelet of great sentimental value ... Piease, If found, call MARl at X296911 :( Thanks. 
LOST! Gold/Black onyx ring on Fri. 
9/1 In back of Apt.1635 Turtle 
Creek. Great sentimental value. 
Reward. Carolyn 271-2314. 
Found· 
Set of Keys by Admin. Building. 
Running Shoe Key Chain. 
Chris x1899 
Found: Lady's watch in laundry @ 
St: Michael's. Call Stan@ 631­
8105 to identify. 
WANTED 
Sales Help Needed • Long Distance Service needs Reps to sell to stu­dents and their families. Can be done part time from room or apart· ment. Potential for Immediate com· missions, management bonuses and long term residual income. We offer tremendous value to the cus· tomer and training and support for our Reps. Call Mike at 616·521­3620. 
Students wanted to promote the most killer Spring Break Trips on campus. Earn high$$ commissions and free trlpsll Must be outgoing and creative. Call immediately 1· 800-SURFS-UP. 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING • 
Earn up to $2,000+/month on 
Cruise Ships or Land-Tour compa­
nies. World travel. Seasonal & full· 
time employment available. No 
experience necessary. For more 
information call 1 -206-634-0468 
ext. C55841 
WANTED! I Authentic N.D. Stadium seat offered by Athletic Dept. I DESPEAATELY need to buy one 
• but they're SOLD OUTI PLEASE HELP MEl $$$11 Call: Chris Carroll (Class Of '91) M-F 8-5cst (708)325-8700 Thanks. 
Part-time nanny needed. $7/hr. 2:30-6:30 any alt. Must drive. Call 257-1411 evens. 
PT/FT • International 
mul\1-mllllon $ company looking for sports minded, self-motivated, attl· tude-driven Individuals to help expand Northern Indiana territory. Flex hrs., excellent pay, training provided. For Interview call277· 5289 
RELIABLE STUDENT WHO 
ENJOYS CHILDREN NEEDED ONE THURSDAY MOANING PEA MONTH IN CHURCH NURSERY. TRANSPORTATION PROVIDED, $5 HOUR.· FIRST DATE: 9/28, 9·11:30 A.M. CALL 287-4002. 
WANTED: An Asst. Cook, Servers, Dishwashers, and a Cleaning per­son. Call the North Village Landing for your interview. 272-8180. 
Earn $2500 & Free Spring Break 
Trips! Sell 8 Trips & Go Freel Best 
Trips & Prices! Bahamas, Cancun, 
Jamaica, Florida! Spring Break 
Travail 1 -800-678-6386 
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING· Seasonal & full-time employment available at National Parks, Forests & Wildlife Preserves. Benefits + bonuses! Call: 1·206-545-4804 ext. N55841 
Lead Guitarist Looking lor Band 
Call Flynn x-1007 
Business oriented men and women. Gain marketing ex­perience and earn $'s at the same time. Fit your schedule part time. call Ron 272-7147 
Grad Student Ticket Lin 
Were yo 
Knocked Over? 
Intimidated? 
Poked? 
Or just an observer to the 
drunkenness, arguing, and near rit? 
Either this year or last 
Make your voice heard. 
E-mail 
msheliga@bach.helios.nd.edu 
FOR RENT 
2 BDRM HOME FOR RENT NEAR 
CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES 
272-6306 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR NO 
232-2595 
3 BDRM house, 5 min drive to 
NO campus. $150/rm/mon. plus 
utility costs. Call 272·7376 
2 BDRMS, USE OF ALL UTILI· TIES, KITCHEN, W/0, $250/MO. QUIET N/HOOD. NEAR CAMPUS. PAUL 232·2794. 
Rm available in 3 bdrm home 
$240 Inc. utilities. 5-min. drive. 
631-4809 or 232-7175. 
HOME CLOSE TO NO GOOD 
AREA2773097 
LUXURY LAKE HOUSE AVAIL­ABLE FOR HOME GAME WEEK­ENDS. SLEEPS 10. JACUZZI TUB, STEAM ROOM, FULLY FUR­NISHED. $1.500.00 PER WEEK­END. 30 MIN. FROM CAMPUS. 219·295-6261 DAYS. 616-476­2459 EVENINGS. ASK FOR LES. 
FOR SALE 
1985 Honda Hatchback 
$1000/Best offer 708-957·1546 
(Chicago) Ask for Pete. New Tires 
& Brakes. 
2 ROOMS AT ST. MARYS INN 
SEPT. 15 & 16 
RACHEL 303-796-8280 
RUST LOVESEAT, CHAIR & OTTOMAN. $200 TAKES ALL. 291·5160. 
R/T TICKET TO L.A. 
OCT 14 ·22 
$260 o.b.ol 
Jamie x2498 Mac LC & Printer StyleWriter 4 MB, 40MB HD, 11.5 in Color monitor, Excel , Word , ClarisWorks, Hypercard. Asking $ 1 000 or B/0 (232-5236) 
MACINTOSH COMPUTER for sale. Complete system Including printer only $499. Call1·800·289-5685. 
Packard Bell 486SXCPU 4 megabytes-color monitor­Wordperfect 6.0-CD ROM· Soundcard-color printer-1 yr. old $1700 256·6982 (before 4:00) 
TICKETS 
I NEED 2 TEXAS GA'S CALL DAVID @ 272-7327 
A DEVOTED IRISH FAN NEEDS GA'S TO ANY/ALL HOME/AWAY GAMES. 219-232-0061,24 HRS. 
TICKET-MART, INC. 
WANTED 
GA'S FOR ANY/ALL 
HOME/AWAY NO GAMES. 
BUY"SELL"TAADE 
(219) 232-0058 • 24 HRS. 
BUSINESSMAN NEEDS 2or4 NO SEASON TICKETS ANY OR ALL GAMES. OHIO.ST. andWASHINGTON A MUST PLEASE HELP IF YOU CAN ........ 2771659 
I NEED TIXS TO ALL HOME 
GAMES.272-6306 
NEED TEXAS GA'S. CALL ALISON 1-800-431-0010, EXT. 8796. 
I need 2 Texas G.A.s Dad won't pay for my last semester unless I get these tickets. Call Bob x4040. 
Need 2 BC tix. Student or GA. 
Kevin x4040. 
I have 3 friends who have never 
NEVER seen a Notre Dame 
garneill Please help these poor, 
unfortunate souls with tix for USC. 
Good prices paid for any available 
tickets. Call Jim x1739. 
Desperately need USC tickets Ill 
3 GA's or 2 GA's and 1 Student 
Please call Chris at 288-7843. 
Need 2 Texas GAs. 
Desperate and Wealthy! 
Call 1 -800-223-2440 Ext.4370 
$$$$$$ 
need vanderbilt tickets GA's or married student tlx call Dan @ 273-4780 
Need G.A. Tix to NO-Texas. Cali 
Joe at 287-4561 before 10 p.m. 
NEED NO-TEXAS GA OR STUDENT TIX. CALL DAVE 609-779-3876. 
NO DAD NEEDS TEXAS, USC & 
PURDUE GA'S. 
219-422-6088. 
I NEED TEXAS AND USC GA'SI 
PLEASE CALL SUZV AT X3729. 
Need GA's & Student Tx for USC. 
Cali Rich at 277-4755 
NEED GA TICKETS FOR TEXAS­
NO GAME. WILL PAY TOP DOL· 
LAR. (610)995-9671 
FOR SALE TICKETSIIII 
G.A. S ALL GAMES ••••••• 272-72331111111111 
CAN Y'ALL HELP OUT? 
NEED TEX TIX-GA OR STDNT 
TOP DOLLAR PAID 
CALL KELLI X4044 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Former NO student needs SIX 
Texas GAs. Name your price. 
Call Ryan at (608) 849-7702 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
BC TICKETS NEEDED. PLEASE 
CALL KATIE@ 219·271-9856. 
THANK YOU! 
USC TICKETS NEEDED, STU· 
DENT OR GA. CALL KATIE AT 
219·271-9856. THANK YOU! 
WILL BUY TEXAS TICKETS 817· 738·5109 
DESPERATELY SEEKING 3 GA or student tickets for TEXAS! Call Sarah 273-6875 
Need 2 Vanderbilt GA's Call Ali x4541 
Need 3 GA's lor Vandy and 4 lor UT-call Jeff X1828 
Need 2--4 tlx for Texas. John 631· 7204; 233·3412 
NEED STUDENT TIXIII VANDY, OSU, and NAVY 233-2289 
need 3 GA's 4 Vand. call x2855 
ALUM NEEDS TEXAS GAs. CALL (313)420·1208 OR (212)250-6513 (DAY ONLY). 
NEED TX STU·TIX FOR NO GRADII HE'S RICH NOW! 
JANINE ·1549 
DESPERATE for 4 usc gas and 4 washington gas $$$ call ruth x3741 
I need 2 Vandy GA'sl Call Martha @ X4092 
HELP MElli 
I need 2 Texas GA's 
273·6162 
NEED TICKETS 
4 VANDYG.A.' 
Cali Sean x2153 
PAIR OF MARRIED STUD 
TIX BOOKLETS 4 sale 
call 273.0824 
Need BC or USC GAs • Call Jess 
@ X2785 
ND ALUM NEEDS 2/4 OSU TIX 
GA'S PREF. CALL MIKE 212-574· 
1071 
Need BC & USC GA's & Stud 
Meg or Sue @ 4544 
Need Vandy Texas WA Stud & 
GA's 
Katie or Christy @ 4514 
TEXAS BOY DESPERATELY SEEKING TEXAS TICKETS. PLEASE CALL MIGUEL AT X3336. 
Will trade 1 stud Vandy & Tex lor 
2 Navy GAs Ben x3305 
NEED: 
1 GA for Texas and 
1 GA!orBC. 
call Christine @ 273-2580 
NEEDED: 
Five tlx lor Vandy-GA's or Stud's 
Call Mike @ X0610 
Need 4 USC GAs & 2 BC GAs. 
Please call Cheryl x4883 
For Sale: Vandy GA's 
Mark 273·6048 
I have tickets for every home game. I need 2 TEXAS GA's. If you want to trade call277-3609. 
HELPIII NEED TWO GA'S FOR ANY HOME FOOTBALL GAME CALL BILL AT x3559 
Need Texas GA and Stud. Tix 
Eric 233·4435 
NO student needs Texas and Navy tickets lor family driving REALLY far to get here-Please call Kerry @ 634-2925 
2 married std Ilk book 4 sale 271· 
0783 
I need 2 Navy GA's. 
Call Katie at 273-0122 
2 Stud Tik Bks 
for sale together or separate 
289·2846 anytime 
leave msg 
I NEED USC and OSU GAs! I 
HAVE stud tix for Vandy, BC to 
trade and/or $$1 Amy x4836 
I NEED VANDERBILT GA'S PLEASEIIIII CALL TRICIA @273·9840 
Needed one Vandy ticket 
Call Greg at 3889 #l#l#l#l@ FOR SALE 2 VANDY STUD TIX call and leave OFFER Tim x3889 !@#$%" 
xxxxxxxxxxx 
Need 2BC tickets for a priest and friend call TIM X3889 
xxxsxxxxxxx 
TRADEI 
2 VANDY and 4 NAVY GAs WILL TRADE FOR ANY TEXAS TIX. KEVIN x3254 
Need B.C. tickets $$$ Kevin x 1233 
I HAVE VANDERBILT STUD TIX FOR SALE 1·6696 
ATTENTIONIII NEED 4 VANDY GA'S FOR FAMILYH BIG $$$$ """CALL ANNA @273-0962""" 
Need 2 tickets to Vanderbilt game. Call Cristina at 2475. 
Need 2 tickets for NO vs. Texas. Call Ken, collect at (405)677·8253 
NO Alum has 2 BC GA's to TRADE for USC GA's. Call Brian (717)566· 5856. Leave message. 
Need 4 USC GA's Katie X4088 
I have 1 VANDY GA. If you have a BC GA & want to trade, call Joe @x2257 
NEED 8 NAVY GA'S $$$USC stud tic to sell X2620 
I need one Texas stud ticket for friend flying from Texasll x2522 
Need 2 Student Tix and 2 GA's for 
Texas. Call Dominic @ 273-8709 
If you can help me out. 
#% $ Std Tix Book lor Sale. 277­
7876. $% # 
NEED TXS STD TIX • RON X0848 
I NEED 4 BC GA'S AND 2 STUD 
TIX CALL DAVID @ 272-7327 
for sale: 2 student ticket books 
make offer on message. 271·7270 
Needed: Air Force, Vanderbilt, 
USC, Texas nx Call John at 
x1721 or x0642 
I NEED I TEXAS TICKET • STU­
DENT OR GA. PLEASE CALL 
KIRA@ 284·5502. PLEASE??? 
THANKSII 
Need USC GA'S 
1 USC stud. needed 
Matt 288-3823 
FOR SALE: 2 Texas GA's. 
WANTED: 2 USC GA's. 
Will buy sell or trade! 
Call Mike '90 MBA @ 233-9609 
TRADE -2 BCNandblt GAs for 2 USC/Texas GAs-Call219-273· 8379 
I NEED TXS GA'S MEGAN X3890 
I NEED GA'S MEGAN X3890 
GA FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE CALL 2719464 OR 2887162 
I HAVE GA TICKETS FOR TEXAS, VANDY AND NAVY .... IF YOU HAVE TICKETS FOR USC AND WANT TO MAKE A TRADE..... Call Tom at: 4-3893 
HEY I Need Vandy and Texas tickets call239-7959 ask lor Mike 
I NEED BC GA'S & STUD TIXI 
CALL JOHN @ 234·5771 
NEED TEXAS GAs· WILL PAY$$ please call Charlie x2243 
II@VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY@II 
Stacy needs Tickets to Vanderbilt! GAs are Ideal. Help her out and she will pay you the big bucks! Call her at 219-634·4203 and make her an offer. 
"&"%%$@#(Go Irish!)#@$%%"&" 
Willing to trade two Navy G.A.s for Texas tickets. Tom 634-1157 
DESPERATELY NEED B.C. stu­dent and GA tlcketsll Call Beth at 273-8334. 
NEED 2 USC GA'S AND 4 TEXAS GA'S: CALL KEVIN 234·3468 
HELPII I need Air Force tlcketslllll Also Purdue, Ohio State, and any home GA's. Emily @ 273-9840. 
HELPI HELP I HELP! I need 2 G.A.'s to ANY game after Fall Break. Will pay ANY price Ill 
caH Scott @ x1105 
$ I need 2 Texas Ga's lor my Dad$ $ Call Kate at 2900 
$ 
I NEED 2 VANDERBILT TICKETS. PLEASE CALL 1-800·366·1687 ASK FOR KATHY AT EXT.129 
I need to 2 TX GA'slll Call Christy at X2950. 
Need 1 USC Ticket Student or 
GA. Call Anne x4896. 
I@#$%1 @#$%1 @11$%1 @1#$%1 @I# 
I NEED 2-4 OH STATE GA'S 
CALL JAY COLLECT @ 
(614) 766·2012 
AFTEA7PM 
1@#$%1 @1#$%1 @11$%1 @11$%@1# 
NEED 2-f>REFERABLY 4 G.A.'s TO USC. GIVE MATT A CALL AT 4-2120. 
4 SALE: MARRIED STD TIX, 
SECT. 30, TOM@273-4226 
WILL TRADE 4 BOSTON COL· LEGE GA'S FOR 4 USC GA'S OR WILL TRADE 2 BOSTON COL· LEGE GA'S FOR 2 USC GA'S. CALL TODD AT 4-1787. 
NEED VANDERBILT GA'S FOR 
FRIENDS FROM HOME. CALL 
JOE AT 4-1846. 
NEED: 1 OR MORE STO TIX 
ANY GAME ESP. TEXAS 
CALL X3232 
ALUM WILL PAY $100 A TICKET 
FOR USC TEXAS OHIO STATE 
WASH ga's PERSONAL USE 
ONLY 2773097 
NEED 2 NAVY GA'S. CALL TOM 
ATX1899. 
Selling Married Stud Booklets 
232 4827 
NEED 4 TEX GA BIG $Chrlsx4010 
Need 4 GA's for Vanderbilt. 
Will pay big money. 
Call Joe at X1632 
NEED 1 Vanderbilt student ticket 
call Doug x1835 
WANTED: 2·3 Texas GAs; will 
trade BC GAs for them. (414)282­
0286 Brian 
I NEED TICKETSII If you are not using your tlx for the Texas game (Sep.23), please CALL RICK COL· LECT at (210)805-8355, alter 7 pm CST. 
AAA 
I really need 2 GA tickets for the Navy Game for my Grandparents coming here. II you can help please call me at 4-1959 
2 married & 1 single stud booklets 
4 sale. call219-831-8103 
NEED VANDERBILT GA'S AND TEXAS GA'S/ STUDENT TIX CALL AILEEN AT X4033 
Am willing to barter, haggle or pro­
vide entertainment for tex tix, 233· 
4925 David 
NO GRAD NEEDS TIXI 
LETTERMAN NEEDS 
4USC AND 6 TEXAS TIXI 
WILL PAY $$$$$1 
CALL MIKE X1824 
••• FOR SALE ••• Four Vandy GA's Together on 15-yd line Call Bill at 291·6216 
Need 2 good tix for any of the dates 10/21,10/28,11/4. (515)486-2517 
see CLASS I page 14 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS 
~=-----------------------------------------------------~~ 
Class 
continued from page 13 
Wanted two to four home game tickets. Call 
or write. 
314-731-7604 
Gary Goehl 
PO Box 4152 
Hazelwood MO 63042 
I need 2 GAs for Texas Please call Kathleen @4843 
For sale: 4 Bk Stud.Tix Call Jane @287-7729 (8-12pm) leave msg , make offer 
Need NAVY student or GA for little sister. Call Carol @· 4-3826 
HELPI Need 1 Texas GA For DAD III Call Pete @ 1728 
need your texas tix erin 2326978 
Need 2 Vandy GA's Call 271-9670 
PERSONAL 
JAZZERCISE 
IT'S A FUN WAY TO GET FIT & STAY THAT WAY. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. CALL 277·0111 FOR MORE INFO 
Hey, youl I know you're interested in Notre Dame Student Players. Our first meeting of the year is coming up soon. Mark your cal­endars: 
(9/18/95, 6 p.m., Notre Dame Room, LaFortune). 
All are welcome. Keep the faith and love alive. Be a part of the action. I'll see you there. 
DON'T JUST SETTLE FOR ANOTHER PREDICTABLE DATEII! 
DON'T MISS CREATIVE DATING SEMINAR!II TONITEI 8:00p.m. LaFortune Ballroom 
THE ORIGINAL GAYILESBIAN STUDENT SUPPORT GROUP WILL HOST ITS FIRST MEETING THURSDAY, SEPT. 14 AT 7:30PM. CALL THE Q-LINE AT 287-6665 FOR LOCATION. 
S tudboy Dave in search of E x1ra spicy lover,call me x4010 for Xtacy 
Rich 
Why are you so sweet? 
You make my heart smile and my soul 
laugh 
I'm so glad we're friends, too. Peace and love,Tracy 
Kathleen S-Thanks a bunch! You're a sweetie, Luv, Kathryn 
ToOREO­You're one sweet cookie! I love you & I can't wait until next week. XOXO Kathryn 
Varisty Chess Player?!?!? How did you anage to develop PEGS-OF­STEEL? Did you really run a mile in 8th grade?-Varsity fisher 
( @#*(#$"()$%($%$#)( 
So, which sport did you get sick from any­
way?Was it ... Basketball??? Baseball??? Football????? Track???? I@ *#&$(%"*(#$*"(o/o"*( 
The American Cancer Society is sponsor­ing a 5K & 10 K Breast Cancer Awareness Run on 9130 in downtown Mishawaka. If interested call Nicole@ x1318. 
Do you think that feminists can't be pro-life? Think again. 
Feminists for Life meeting Wednesday, September 13 at 
Do you think that feminists can't be pro-life? Think again. 
Feminists for Life meeting Wednesday, September 13 at 
7:30 p.m. in the CSC Lounge.7:30 p.m. in 
the esc 
Lounge.Now you know why evil will always triumph! Because good is dumb! 
Do you play Magic (M:tg) I'm trying to com­pile a list for playing, trading, and tournaments. If interested, contact Nick at 234-0783 or E-mail me at Nicholas.Kanaras.1 @nd.edu 
Kidde, 
How is Bean Town? Good thing you gave me your address. Life without The Observer would be hell!! 
-An lllinios Farmer 
Its as refreshing as the Northern Wisconsin woods and its all over my floor. 
Ma Dom wants to thank everybody for the serenade-she'll be back Nov.4. 
Wanted: 3 women to fan Sultan's Pillow Couch. Pays very well. Apply within. 
Go ahead Rex. Keep crackin' wise. That's why you're jockeying behind the desk at some gaddang local dormitory instead of living in a steady apartment. 
-Winoski 
#812 
Frank C. likes men. 
If you see Brian Dominic give him some spare change cause he is kind of home­less. 
Lily­1know you may be feeling left out with the addition of the makeshift hideaway, but don't worry old girl because I'll still be com­ing with the special sauce. 
College Republicans 
First Meeting changed to 
, 
Wed. Sept. 13 at 8:00 in 127 Nieuwland. 
C,ountdown: Two days til Margie's big birth­day bash. 
Bridgey -hope you're feeling better. 
Monkey ... gorilla ... baseball bat. ..What's next? TOTEM POLE??? 
llerve you Leazer, Bridge and Marge. 
Juster -you're -ss is mine! Just wait til I get my hands on your backpack. 
Tea is gross. I hate tea. 
Practice random acts of kindness and senseless acts of beauty. 
Margie wants linger fun!!! Anyone interested? 
The willage is a node in the nexxus of Indian society. 
Farter rocks MC 4N with Edward -----hands. :) 
Clara Ann -miss you!! We need to "catch up" sometime. 
M-anne, Mr. SMith and I are tight now; Beware of a kidnapping... 
To my Tutor-Super Thanks I What would you like in return? -Cecil 
Don't be Cantankerous MPC, and neither will I be. Good Luck Domani, 
Love your Christie 
HEY MAMYI Someone hairy wants you! Guess who? 
Dear Crazy D, Keep your extra senses to yourself! -3N 

Shut up Gitall Do you miss your dad? I miss him, tool. Come to our nex1 SAW din­ner -5:45 Monday at North. 
Hello Gil from Allison and Kira. 
Nice game Erin and Jon. I think you ate your Whesties for dinner. 
Who is totally ditraught with the CSC. I feel like such a loser for being rejected by them. I just want to help. 
Do you think that feminists can't be pro:life? Thin~ again. 
Feminists for Life meeting Wednesday, September 13 at 
7:30 p.m. in the CSC Lounge. 
Wednesday, September 13, 1995 

I i 
~~ 
~-SYRA{::USt
•iJ STUDY ABROAD 
Take the Syracuse Advantage! 
Internships Extensive Professional & Liberal Arts Courses 
EUROPE • AFRICA • ASIA 
Scholarships & Grants 
Division of International Programs Abroad Syracuse University, 119a Euclid Avenue Syracuse, NY 13244-4170 
1-800-235-3472 • DIPA@suadmin.syr.edu 
Attention sophomores!! 
Get involved in 1995-1996 JPW 
The committee for this year's Junior Parent's Weekend is looking for a sophomore chairperson. This is your chance to get involved in one of the most exciting events of junior year. Don't let this opportunity go to waste, apply now! 
•Applications 
are now available at the LaFortune Information Desk. 

•Applications 
must be returned to 315 LaFortune by September 22nd. 


~-----------------------~-------------~-­
Wednesday, September 13, 1995 The Observer • PROFESSIONAL SPORTS page 15 

Vote creates labor peace 
By RONALD BLUM Assodatcd Press 
NEW YORK · Labor peace appeared likely in the NBA after players reject· ed by a nearly 2-to-1 margin tho effort to eliminate their union. 
"I would hope the player reps look at that and ratify the agnmment," union head Simon Gourdine said after the votes were counted Tuesday at the National Labor Relations Board. 
Player representatives are to meet in Chicago on Wednesday and vote on a six-year collec· tive bargaining agreement. NBA commissioner David Stern predicted owners will approve the contract by next Monday at the latest and lift the lockout imposed July 1. 
If the deal is approved, train­ing camps would open as scheduled on Oct. 6 and the season would begin on time on Nov. 3. Since the lockout, teams were barred from nego­tiating player contracts. 
Among the 421 eligible vot­ers, 226 voted to keep the union and 134 voted to decer­tify. The pro-union forces, which were supported by Stern and got 63 percent of the bal­lots, said the vote was tanta· mount to a referendum on the labor agreement. 
'I don't think there is a signif· icant group out there any more that is against this deal," Stern said. 
Dttnil'll Sllvflrman, the NLHB's 
New York regional director, 
said the results will not be offi· 
cia! until Sept. 19. The losing 
side may file objections to the 
way the vote was conducted. 

(?MPUS
MINISTRY 
The NLRB would then take four to six weeks to determine whether the objections are valld. 
"Of course, I'm disappoipted by the vote," sa}d Jeffrey Kessler, the lawyer·. for players seeking to decertify the union. "l still believe this is a terrible vote for the players and they will regret it for a long time." 
Kessler's group, which includes Michael Jordan nnd Patrick Ewing, will decide whether this week whether to challenge the election. The overwhelming vote may cause the group to give up the fight, which began June 21. 
"A lot of the players got intimidated by the threat of the owners that the season was going to end," Kessler said. "The strategy the NBA carried out was effective." 
Stern denied the NBA had coerced players to support the union. 
"This is a perfectly legal lock· out," he sa.id. "We did nothing that is wrong." 
The dissidents think players could get a better deal by dis· solving the union and fighting the NBA in court. The group filed an antitrust suit in Minneapolis on June 28, but appellate courts ruled players can't proceed with antitrust cases if they are unionized. 
"The players want to play 
basketball," said Buck 
Williams of the Portland Trail 
Blaz.ers, the president of the 
NBA union. "We believe we got 
a fa.ir agreement." 
While baseball, the NFL and 
the NHL have been interrupted 
by strikes and lockouts over 
the past 25 years, the NBA did not have a job action until this summer. 
Players who voted against decertification said they were concerned the NBA could turn down the same path as base· ball, which experienced a 20 percent attendance drop fol· lowing the 7 1/2-month strike. 
"People came up to me and said, 'Don't do what baseball did,' ,'\ said Charles Smith of the New York Knlcks, the union's vice president. "We want to mnke sure the NBA (season) starts. That played a part of it." 
Some players who supported the union would prefer to have their negotiators go back to the table and get a better deal. 
"I have nothing to get from the owners," Stern said. "They gave it all." 
Players voted Aug. 30 and Sept. 7 but the ballots weren't counted until Tuesday. One by one, NLRB staff pulled the green ballots from a tan card· board ballot box and called out "yes" or "no." 
With Gourdine and Kessler sitting at the table as witness· es, it immediately became clear that the "yes'' votes -in favor of the union -would easily prevail. 
"I got nervous waiting for a while," Williams said. 
Union officials and th.e league 11rst reached an agreement on June 21 and owners approved it. But tlie union's player rep· resentatives, under pressure from the Jordan-Ewing group, refused to take a vote when they met June 23 and instruct· ed Gourdine to go back to the bargaining table. 
Professor Scott Appleby, Associate Professor of History and Director of the Cushwa Center for 
Study of American Catholicism on 
THE BLESSED MOTHER AND 
THE SIGNS OF THE TIMES Wednesday, September 13 Hesburgh Library Lounge 7:30p.m. 
(next to the library auditorium) 
ALL WELCOME! 
•NFL 
'Steel Curtain' not affected by new rules 
By ALAN ROBINSON 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH 
Greg Lloyd said it first -very loudly and very emphatically­and coach Bill Cowher agrees: Nobody, not even NFL officials, will disrupt the way the Pittsburgh Steelers play defense. 
Adjust to the NFL's newly strengthened rules to protect the quarterback? Maybe. But alter the blitzing, attacking style that got the Stealers to the AFC title game last season? 
"No, no, no, no -we over­come it," Cowher said Tuesday, displaying the same emotional passion he normally reserves for the sidelines. "If we get a penalty, they get a first down and we just line up and try to stop them three more downs. But we will NOT change the way we play foot­ball." 
The Steelers cannot worry that officials, subconsciously or not, might be overly protective Monday of Dolphins star Dan Marino, according to Lloyd. 
The intriguing matchup of the AFC's best offense (Miami) against its best defense (Pittsburgh) is already being promoted as a possible preview of the AFC championship. 
"Dan Marino?" Cowher said, his eyes widening and bright­ening at the very mention of the name. "I don't think so. I think the officials are too pro­fessional for that." 
Regardless, the Steelers clearly have found it difficult to tone down their aggressiveness 
to  fit  the  expanded  rules  
designed  to  protect  quar­ 
terbacks.  

Tied for the NFL lead in penalties (19) with the Lions and Jets, the Steelers drew eight defensive penalties in the second half Sunday in Houston. One was a roughing the passer call on Lloyd, who was fined $12,000 for a preseason hit on the Packers' Brett Favre. 
The fine and penalty hardly seem to have stifled Lloyd's attack-first style, just as Cowher hope they wouldn't. 
"I will try to knock (Marino) into next week," Lloyd said. "If the officials want to call a penalty, so be it. Are we going to go after Marino? What do you think? We are not going to play passive defense. 
"(The league) shows all those super hits of guys getting knocked around and knocked out of bounds and hit and spin­ning in the air. They show that to the fans before the game. As soon as we do that, they t.hrow a flag. That's very hypocritical. Until they get their act togeth­er, they can't say anything to me -nothing they say to me or any line they levy on me." 
Lloyd's attitude? If the penal­ties come, they come. 
"Don't be surprised every week on there are penalties galore," he said. "Because we're not going to sit back and play passive defense, let some quarterback just stand back there and never put pressure on him." 
Cowher wants pressure, and he wants aggression, but said the Steelers can have both and still not be overwhelmed with penalties. 
"We're going to play the game the way we know how to play the game," he said. "We are not going to change the way we play football. It's like basketball; if the officials are calling hand-checking, you have to adjust. In football, you have to be able to adjust ... but we will not change the way we play football." 
Meanwhile, All-Pro corner­back Rod Woodson underwent surgery Monday in Vail, Colo., to repair the torn anterior cru­ciate ligament in his right knee. 
Woodson is not expected to play again this season, but, at his request, has not been put on the injured reserve list. Woodson still has faint hopes of playing should the Stealers reach the Super Bowl. 
-
Attention All Marketing Majors: 
FIRST MARKETING CLUB MEETING 
7:00pm Tonight! 
Downstairs Lounge -Business Building Free Pizza and Pop 
We will discuss:
L ·Resume Book ~ •Fundr~ser 
·Internship and Job Possibllities ·Bring $10 dues for the year (includes Resume Book) 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, September 13, 1995 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALL 
Despite arrest, Phillips could return to Cornhuskers 
By DAVE ZELIO 
Associated Press 
LINCOLN, Neb. 
Nebraska star Lawrence Phillips was charged today with assault, trespassing and de­struction of property in con­nection with an attack on his ex-girlfriend. 
Phillips, considered a top Heisman Trophy contender, was scheduled to be arraigned later today in Lancaster County Court. 
Coach Tom Osborne kicked Phillips off the team shortly after his arrest Sunday night, but later said there was a possi­bility the running back could rejoin the second-ranked Cornhuskers. 
The coach took no disciplinary action against. backup running back Damon Benning, who was arrested a day before Phillips on suspicion of assaulting a woman. 
Lancaster County Attorney Gary Lacey said he had not yet reviewed the police reports in the Benning case and has not made a decision on whether to file formal charges against the player. 
The assault charge alleges Phillips hit a woman Sunday at the Lincoln apartment of Nebraska quarterback Scott Frost. Lacey said the property charge alleges Phillips hit some mailboxes with his fist or body as he left the building. The damage was estimated at $327. Lacey said he has not spoken with the woman, Katherine McEwen, a sophomore on the women's basketball team. 
P'1llice  said  · she  has  left  
Nebraska for her own  pro­ 
tection.  
University  officials  said  

Phillips, who had three brushes with the law, was dismissed from the team because he vio­lated an agreement with the coach. 
"My understanding is that he 
"Our Lady on
-
the Dome" 
As the river called "St. joseph" flows softly towards its end it turns eastward at a city aptly named "South Bend" 'Twas here Fr. Sorin founded a 
university 
or the glory of God's reign lie named it for "Our Mother" Notre Dame-Notre Dame 
. . . So begins a beautiful eight stanza poem that belongs in every fan's home and office. Suitable for framing, the tribute is bordered in blue and gold. 
The spirit of the University sin­cerely expressed -makes a cher­ished gift. 
Send personal check or money order to: Pat O'Block, P.O. Box 306, LaGrange, IL 60525 
Allow iO days to Z weeks for delil!ery. 
rNa~~-------------------1
I -----------------1 
lAddress ________________ : 
11 
:C1ty _______ state __ z·1p ---: lNumber of poems@ 12.95* each ___: l Total l
I -----1 
l $2.50 Total S&H _____: 
1 I GrandTotal 1 I 
I -----1 
l_*$1.00 fromeach saie will be donated to l I I the NoLTe Dame Scholarship Fund 1 I 
~----------------------~ 
was told, 'Any more problems and that's it," Herb Howe, an associate to the chancellor, told the Omaha World-Herald. 
On a radio talk show, Sports Day Mid-America, athletic director Bill Byrne said: Lawrence has an agreement with Tom as far as what his behavior is going to be. And once he violates that depending on the understanding, there's going to be consequences. And the consequences in this case were that Lawrence Phillips was dismissed from the football team." 
Osborne said Monday that Phillips could return to the sec­ond-ranked Nebraska team this year. 
"There's a possibility he might still play some this sea­son," Osborne said. "He'd have to get certain things done. It certainly wouldn't be any time soon. He may not play at all." 
Osborne said backup tailback Damon Benning will play this week despite being arrested on suspiciOn of misdemeanor assault Saturday after allegedly grabbing and pushing a woman at his Lincoln apartment. Osborne said he believes Benning is innocent and was defending himself. 
Osborne spent hours Monday discussing the arrests of his top two running backs. Off-field problems have become a famil­iar subject for Osborne, who is preparing for the home opener Saturday against Arizona State (1-1). 
Two other Cornhuskers also face criminal charges: Tyrone Williams, charged with felony weapons violations, and Riley Washington, awaiting trial on a charge of attempted second­degree murder. Williams con­tinues to play for Nebraska, and Washington has been allowed to practice. 
The weekend arrests stunned fans of the defending national champions. Home games have been sold out at Memorial Stadium since 1962 for an NCAA-record 201 consecutive games. 
Hours before the alleged assault, Phillips rushed for 206 yards and four touchdowns against Michigan State. Tabbed an early Heisman Trophy con­tender, he wa~ the nation's third-leading rusher last year with 1,722 yards. 
Osborne said he dismissed Phillips after determining the player was involved in an assault. 
"Lawrence and I have agreed on what happened and there's no question -I wouldn't call it a beating -but he certainly did inflict some damage to the young lady," Osborne said. "She was dragged down some stairs and there were some injuries." 
Phillips, 20, a junior from West Covina, Calif., turned him­self into police Sunday after the early-morning incident at Frost's apartment. 
Police said Phillips climbed into the third-floor apartment, hit the woman and dragged her to the building's foyer. Residents pulled him away. 
Earlier this year, Phillips pleaded innocent to misde­meanor assault, disturbing the peace and vandalism after a fight with another student. He entered a pretrial diversion program and paid the student $400. In July he pleaded guilty to disturbing the peace and was fined $50. 
Benning, who missed the Michigan State game with a pulled hamstring, was arrested at his Lincoln apartment early Saturday. 
Benning said his 19-year-old ex-girlfriend came to his apart­ment and threatened to dam­age his car. He said she pushed him in the door, threw rocks at him and ripped his shirt. 
"If I had any physical contact with her at this point, it was only to hold her ofT of me," he said in a statement. 
Benning is scheduled to appear in court Sept. 27. 

BEFORE TRUSTING YOUR FUTURE TO ANY COMP~ ASI{ FOR SOME LETIERS OF REFERENCE. 
~ou put more than just your savings into a 
.I. retirement company. You put in your trust and 
hopes for the future, too. So before you choose one, ask some questions. How stable is the company? How solid are its investments? How sound is its 
overall financial health? 
A good place to start looking for answers is in the 
ratings of independent analysts. Four companies, all 
widely recognized resources for finding out how 
strong a financial services company really is, gave 
TIAA their top grade. 
IN THE FINAL ANALYSIS, TIAA IS LETTER PERFECT. 
TIAA received A++ (Superior) from A.M. Best 
Co., AAA from Duff & Phelps Credit Rating Co., 
Aaa from Moody's Investors Service and AAA from 
Standard & Poor's. These ratings reflect TIAA's 
stability, sound investments, claims-paying ability 
and overall financial strength. (These are ratings of 

Ensuring the future for those who shape it.... 
insurance companies only, so they do not apply to CREF.) 
And TIAA-which, backed by the company's claims-paying ability, offers a guaranteed rate ofreturn and the opp~rtunity for dividends-is one of a handful of insurance companies nationwide that currently hold these highest marks. 
CREF, FOUR MORE LETTERS EVERYONE SHOULD KNOW. 
For further growth potential and diversification, there's the CREF variable annuity, with seven different investment accounts to give you the flexibility you want as you save for the future. 0 
Together, TIAA and CREF form the world's largest private retirement system based on assets under management, with over $145 billion in assets and more than 75 years of experience serving the education community. For over a million and a half people nationwide, the only letters to remember are TIAA-CREF. 
•Not all accounts are available under the basic retirement plans at all institutions. They are, however, all available for TIAA-CREF Supplemental Retirement Annuities (SRAs). CREF certificates are distributed by TIM-CREF Individual & Institutional Services. 

r-------------------­
Wednesday, September 13,1995 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
The Hammes Open Monday -Saturday 9am to 5 pm NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE Special Orders "on the campus CD and Cassette Accesories 
(1sT\ 
~ 
MATTHEW ~ttllt fun ~IIAlt,aM~ ALAra~ Mou~m *'unuM
Jagged little pill let your dim light shine 
;r~~§'t~ MAmp:l~M"' 

*"'~ Tl BLMIrear vievv
cracked 
NATALI MEWAffT
t1gerllly 
~~~~I! 
I • • 1111 " 
-fftrL t!VMi BLU~ TIAfELER 
four 
PEAI!L.olAM 
~6eh\AT!Ha\tl~a~~ 
~~J~t~J~ l~,j~~ 
L£HHt kRAfiT2. 
circus 
'OUi,Ufi ~OUL 
(self titled) 
Mt~{~~TEU 
2. PA'
me against the world 
MlfiJ~~QI ~~M§~ 

r 
I I 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, September 13, 1995 

key interception in the fourth to avoid." Northwestern's upset of experience, he said. 
quarter to help preserve Notre
Davie
Change 
Dame's victory. Commodore Clash Holtz's absence might create 
Notre Dame Sept. 2 and 
In addition, junior split end Saturday will mark the first
continued from page 20
continued from page 20 
Scott Sollmann, himself a walk­game ever between Vanderbilt which hasn't had a winning 
an opening for Vanderbilt, 
on, hauled in a 15-yard touch­and Notre Dame but the schools 
Roberts. "If you execute prop­
and part of the team played season since 1982 and only down pass from Ron Powlus are not without connections. 
erly, you really can't call a bad
very well and part played pret­earlier in the game. Notre Dame president Fatherthree since 1969. 
play. You've got to be able to
ty good and the other part had Incidentally, Sollmann is a star Edward "Monk" Molloy, C.S.C.,
A victory would mean a lot 
do what your players are capa­
its moments," Dowhower said. for the Commodores, usually centerfielder for the Irish base­received his doctorate from
ble of doing. We'll do whatever
Vandy's offense will continue last in the Southeastern Con­ball squad. Vanderbilt. Vanderbilt is also
is within the framework of the 
with its quarterback platoon the alma mater of Grantlandference, in their first game 
offense and just continue with 
Cranky Cramps Rice, who penned the legendary system as Dowhower switches ever against the Fighting Irish. 
that and get better. There may 
With a severe lack of depth at 'Four Horseman' story. 
junior Ronnie Gordon with "In certain circles around 
be a wrinkle or two that hasn't 
many positions, fatigue-induced sophomore Damian Allen. here, it would be awfully big," 
been used in a game."
Neither has enough passing Dowhower said. 
cramps are a true concern for Injury Update 
And while the Irish will by no 
the Irish. Offensive guard Jeremy Akers
means resemble Florida State 
Last week saw defensive end is the only significant Irish
in terms of gadget-plays, 
Renaldo Wynn, nose guard Paul injury. He should miss another
Roberts can be counted on for 
Grasmanis and cornerback month of action with torn knee
some variation. 
Allen Rossum all succumb to ligaments.
"You've to do what you're 
cramping late in the game. Linebacker Kinnon Tatum
comfortable. He (Holtz) has 
"We just have to make sure missed the Purdue game with
done some great things but I've 
we substitute earlier in the an aggravated hamstring but
got to be Dave Roberts and 
game to prevent this," Davie has practiced since Monday and
we've got to do some things 
said. "It's something we need should start for Notre Dame. 
within the offense. We have a lot of weapons and we do a lot of things. Some of them 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with 
haven't been showed." And while Roberts and Davie 
a special Dbseruer ad. 
may not want to feel over­whelmed with their new situa­tion, they, especially Davie, realize the prestige of the job. 
"I happened to see ESPN and they talked about just 
The Observer 
what it means to be the head football coach at Notre Dame," 
is now accepting applications:
Davie said. "I definitely don't look at myself as being the head football coach of Notre Dame. But it does put things into perspective when you see 
Photo Editor
how much media attention it Courtesy of Vanderbi~ Sports Information gets and it is humbling. It is Rod Dowhower leads the Commodores into Notre Dame Saturday. something I'm proud of but I'm not going to make a big deal 
Please submit a one page statement of intent and 
out of this. 
While Saint Mary's was much 
resume to John Lucas, Editor-in-Chief, by 
''I'm just going to do every­
improved against Heidelberg,
Belles 
thing I can so that when Lou
they will have to maintain this 
Wednesday, September 13. 
Holtz comes back, we're going
level of performance for this
continued from page 20 to have this thing in as good of 
weekend when they travel to 
Call 1-4542 with any questions. 
situation as it is. I'm just going
Ohio Northern University for aseven kills, two blocks, and 14 
to do the things I can do and
tournament. This tournamentdigs. Lawrence and Prosser 
control the things I can con­
is filled with top teams in thiswere also key in the game. 
trol."
region including Ohio North­that "the seniors were a big 
Sophomore Meg Kelly felt 
ern, Thomas Moore, Musking­
A Rudy Redox 
EARN EXTRA MONEY AS A GRADUATE OF
ham, Rochester Institute of
help during the game and they 
For the first time in recent
Technology, Center College,were the biggest key." 
years, walk-ons are playing a 
THE H & R BLOCK INCOME TAX COURSE
Wittenburg, and Hanover. 
Heidelberg's coach Nicky Mu­
significant role for the Fightin'
They all boast imposing
drak thought her team's major 
Irish on Saturdays.
squads, but the Belles have not Thousands of people learn problem was their consistency. 
the course teaches students
In last week's contest at
faced them in the past.
"We play really good against how to prepare income tax how to save money on their
Purdue, senior walk-on safety
Schroeder-Biek knows littleone team and poorly against 
returns from H&R Block and
Mark Monahan, who was 
taxes and also prepares themabout these teams and wanted
others," Mudrak said. "Our 
then earn money as income
recently rewarded with a 
for a rewarding career.
to get in this tournament due to mental toughness isn't there on tax preparers. H&R Block, the
scholarship, came up with a
the high level of play. 
a day to day basis." 
world's largest income tax One course fee includes all 
preparation service, offers its textbooks and supplies. 
Income Tax Course starting Graduates receive Certificates 
the week of September 11. 
of Achievement and continu­
Morning, afternoon, evening, ing education units (CEUs).
and weekend classes are avail­Qualified graduates of the able. 
course may be offered job 
interviews with H&R Block 
Experienced instructors teach but are under no obligationtax law theory, and applica­to accept employment. 
tion. Classroom discussion 
and practice problems pro­
Those interested in more 
vide students with a thorough information about the H&R 
understanding of each tax Block Income Tax Course may topic included in the course. 
call
• 
Students learn how to handle increasingly complex income tax situations as the course 
1-800-TAX-2000 
progresses. 
or259-6925
Ideal for people who want to increase their tax knowledge, 
AC0039 
... 
adidas notre dame invitational
This should tide you over. 
5:00 p.m. -#3 Stanford vs. #9 Vanderbilt 7:30p.m.-#2 NOTRE DAME vs. #19 Michigan State 
This Sunday 
Noon-#2 NOTRE DAME vs. #3 Stanford 
2:00 p.m. -#19 Michigan State vs. #9 Vanderbilt 

L____________________________________________________________________________________________________ 


CALVIN AND HOBBES 
lr l'M 11-1 WE PERIMETI:R or W\5\X:lM, ~HI I GEl To M~E. "' D£.CREt: . 
DILBERT 
OUTWARDLY 1  YE.S,  I'M A  ~  
RAT  BUT MY  BUBBLY  8  
PERSONALITY  AND  MY  ~ !  
UTTE.R LACK OF SKILL  ~  
MAKE ME  WE.LL-SUITED  6  

fOR A CAREEF\ IN:----.~~ MARK[TING ~ 

~·-­
L___~~~~~~_J~~=u~----------~ 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28 Japanese . lacquer box 1 Exclamation 30 Bird in the spring point . 35 Needle case 
5 Nonvars1ty player 37 Joint Chiefs 10 St1nger member: Abbr. 14 B1t of fishing gear 311 Blackmore's 15 Produce a copy "-Doone" 
of 39 Pennsylvania 18 Opposite of insurrection, aweather 1794 
17 Young Guthrie 43 Inventor Nikola 18 Networks 44 -king 19 Peruvian or 45 Spanish painter 
Ohioan city 46 Accommodates, 20 Homemade 
as a Pullman 
bomb 48 Escapade 23 Pout 50 Martial arts 24 "Smoking or 
degree -?" (waiter's 51 Louvre pyramid query) qrchitect 25 Photographic 53 TV ad award image. for short 55 Lots of fun 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-=-+7+.::-t::-l 11 Inter -·­
12 Trailer 
13 SoLJnd. as abell 
22 Sound, as a bell 
2ll Salamanders 
~~ Singt:)r Merman 
Semblance 
29 Ryan or Tatum 
Wednesday, September 13, 1995 
The Observer • TODAY page 19 

YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMIIER 13, 1995 (For your personalized daily Jeane Dixon horoscope. based on your own date of birth, call 1-900-988-7788. Your phone company will bill you 9'J 
cent., ~ minute.) HAI'PY BIRTHDAY! IN THE 
vn·· ~EMil 
NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Svtz.e: fs!l 
You feel more settled, able to accomplish great things at both home and work. Your finances show steady improvement as 1995 draws to a close. A young person displays greater ambition than in the past. Offer encouragement, but do not try to take over. Your views on a con­troversial issue could put you at odds with older relatives. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: aclress Nell Carter, soap star Eileen Fulton, ai1isl Robert Indiana, singer Mel Tonne. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19):
1 DECREE 'fO\J \11>..\JE TC) M,\\'1, 5\-\'t. 1>\CI<E\) \.lP 
New job opportunities arise. Do not
CI\K\.\ "-WMER 13Ml.OON T\.\E NIJA\'\CE.S Ot '11415 
give up your present position before 
n1~T I l1\R:oW 1-\\G\1 \t-.l 
GAlliE. FAST.' 
&3 With the bow. to a cellist 84 Cream 85 Like some food orders 
86 Self-important people, gglloquially 
&?Mont-, Alpinf.l inv<u;ion route to Italy 88 Literary pen 
name &9 "Nf!na" writer 10 Financial plus 71 Woodworking 
tool 
DOWN 
1 Author Stoker 2 Dynamic start 3 -Gwyn, 
sweetheart of Charles II 
4 -and doom a Disheveled 6 Wittier 
7 Campus military 
org. a Kind of lab!:!l a Naval guide 
11-\E M~.. 
WOULD '<OU MIND TE.RR.li3LY IF 'I GNAWE.D ON YOUR PHONE. CHORD 7 
31 Auctioneer's cry 32 Three-toned 
musical chord 33 Gay 34Arrested 
3&~ofMan 
40 Honor society letter 41 Formal, but not too 42 Most prompt 47 One of the Iroquois 49 Frontiersman Carson 
•OFimRm 
• 
Juniors and Sophomores come to Career and Placement Services office, lower level, Hesburgh Ubrary, for information about on-campus interviews for summer job opportunities.' and for developing your resume. 

• 
Feminists for Life meeting today at 7:30 P.M. in the esc lounge; 

• 
If you are Interested In tutoring English to Hispanics in the Michiana area, please join us for an organizational meeting of El Buen Vecino this Wednesday, Sept. 13. at 7:00 P.M.ln the CSC. 


• If you are Interested In the lnnsbruck program. 
Professor Marie-Antoinette Kremer will be giving a 
I··· lecture entitled "Stories from Abroad" atr 4:30P.M. ln 114 O'Shaughnessy. 
• September Is Clothe·a-Chlld month. 
!it Throughout September local Krogers, Martins. Notre 
' Dame Credit Unions, K-Mart at McKinley, participat­ing Teachers Credit Unions, and the Kids Store will be selling Clothe-A-Child cutouts for $1. These figures may be signed and will then be placed on displa)' to demonstrate community support for children in need. 
• Volunteers are needed to assist Special Olympians in swimming. Practice is on Tuosday and Thursday from 4:30~5:30 P.M. at Rolfs Aquatic Center. For more information call Coach Dennis J. Stark at 1-5983, 

52 Wastes time 58 Diva Ponselle 54 Weasellike 59 Seven are 
•MENU 
mammal deadly 55 Folk singer &o She gets what 
Notre Dame 
Joan she wants 
North 
56 Therefore &1 Athena's 
Chicken Fajita Pizza 
shield57 School subj. for 
Beef Ravioli 
environmental­62 Daytime 
Honey Baby Carrots 
ists show 
Saint Marv's Rotissere Chlcken Quarters 
Get answers to any three clues 
Swiss Cheese Croquettes 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
Mixed Vegetal!les
5656 (75¢ each minute). 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22) Spruce up your wardrobe if job hunting. Courage helps you sur mount a barrier. Look closely and you will find hidden benefits in a project that has gone sour. Thin~ twice about changing your res1 dence. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Your popularity is on the rise, helping you move up in business. Reach out to people who can help you keep everything under control. Be logical and clear when giving instruction,. Sel specific goals for subordinates. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 J: Joint financial affairs may be a bit complicated. A candid conversation will help clear up a misunderstand ing. Children need a steady but gen tie hand. Tum your back on negative people. Give yourself a fresh start. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Del 21 ): Someone you met a year ag<• re-enters your life. Travel and ne" friends add up to an enjoyable autumn. Parties play an important role in your social plans. Do not ignore a legal commitment. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan 19): Partnerships are in the spotlight. Let loved ones carry the ball for you socially. Dealing with the practical side of a family arrangement will require patience. Set aside time to catch up on your personal pleasure;,. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18) You could start the day with some misgivings about a friendship Refuse to become agitated when things do not run smoothly. A volatile situation will quiet down b~ tonight. If shoptalk proves boring change lhe subject! 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 201 Today's events give you a chance t<• put your best foot forward. Promotv family ties while soft-pedaling yolll involvemenl in controversial activr ties. Give your mate or partner·, ideas a fair hearing. Keep spendilh' down. 
South Top Sirloin Vegetable Marinara Whipped Potatoes 
.... 
SCOIT ADAMS 
WE. HAVE. AN OPENING IN LOBBY SECURITY. 
I'M INSULTED/ 
\ 
investigating these prospects thor­oughly. A relationship's future depends on how diplomatically you handle sensitive matters. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Do not let an expensive hobby put a dent in your savings. A pet could play a role in brightening your social life. Joint endeavors at work will indirectly benefit romance or family life. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Go with the flow of rapidly-shifting events; rich rewards will follow. Travel in pursuit of knowledge or to settle a legal matter. A parent-child conflict can be ironed out. Offer a sympathetic ear. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Opinionated remarks can have unfortunate repercussions. Stay on your toes! Be diplomatic if someone asks your preferences. Taking fami­1 y members into your confidence is an excellent idea. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22); An emotional confrontation will not hinder a relationship's growth if you are honest. Go through channels when pursuing a job assignmem or loan. Be receptive to workplace changes and new technology. Update your skills. 
SPORTS 
p.age 20 
• IRISH fOOTBALl 
Two heads hopefully equal one 
Davie, Roberts take over reins in Holtz :S absence 
By TIM SHERMAN Associate Sporn Editor 
There is an old adage that says 'two heads are better than one'. With Lou Holtz's absence due to spinal cord surgery, the only thing Notre Dame fans are asking for these days is that the two heads of Bob Davie and Dave Roberts equal the one of Holtz. 
The two men who are to in­1\erit the brunt of the coaching duties in Holtz's absence are realizing that while they have an enormous responsibility, things will not change as much as one would think. 
"The most steadying influ­ence we can have is to keep things the way they have been" said Davie, whose role will expand from defensive coordi­nator to interim coach. ''I'm going to try and keep it as close to what we normally do so these kids can have a steadying influence." 
"This is obviously a unique situation for all of us," Davie added. "The important thing right now for this football team is to get focused and stay focused on Vanderbilt. We really can't control Coach Holtz's situation, but what we can do is help this football team get focused." 
Any time a team loses a reader Hke Holtz, emotional chords are bound to be struck. Davie is making sure that doesn't affect preparation. 
"We're not going to win the game on emotion, we're going to win it on execution and by following the plan Lou Holtz has already set for this football team," Davie noted. "It's not going to be a 'rah-rah' philoso­phy. You don't want to be on an emotional roller-coaster. So I'm going to do everything I can and these coaches are going to do everything they can to tem­per this emotion and be on an even keel." 
As much as the psyche of the team is a concern, so too is the actual logistics of the coaching situation. 

The defensive situation will really not be altered signifi­cantly, as Davie will continue in his current capacity of calling all defensive alignments, but his importance will obviously be magnified in other areas. One of the most significant changes will be the fact that Davie will now wear the head­set that allows him to hear all of the various assistant coach­es. 
"What you have to realize, is that as strong as Coach Holtz is, he still does things by committee," the 40-year old Davie said. "With those head­sets on, you can talk to a lot of different people. I'll listen to opinions, but the final decision on things like fourth-down plays will fall on my shoulders." 
The weight of the offense will fall upon Roberts, who is in his second year as the offensive coordinator of the Irish. Like Davie, he really doesn't foresee tremendous changes. 
"My feeling offensively 1s very similar to Coach Holtz's," said 
see DAVIE I page 18 
• COllEGE FOOTBAll 
Dowhower reacts to Irish change 
By TERESA. WALKER Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. 
How No. 24 Notre Dame reacts to the loss of Lou Holtz is anyone's guess, Vanderbilt coach Rod Dowhower said Monday. 
''I'm sure it will be a very emotional game for them," Dowhower told sportswriters Monday at his weekly, pregame news conference. 
''I'm sure that will be some­thing that will be the question for Notre Dame players right up through the game." 
The Commodores (0-1) have enough problems getting ready for the Irish, who lost their opener to Northwestern and narrowly beat Purdue 35-28 last Saturday. 
Defensive coordinator Bob Davie will replace Holtz, and that could result in changes Vanderbilt can only guess at. 
"It's a different head coach," Dowhower said. ''I'm sure he might have some deep-seated things he wants to do that he hadn't been able to do. I don't know." 
The Commodores are coming off an open date following a 33-25 season opening loss to Alabama. Dowhower and his staff spent the past week try­ing to prevent mistakes like five interceptions and one fum­ble. 
The defense forced its own share of turnovers against Alabama, coming up with four interceptions and one fumble that was returned for a touch­down. 
But facing Notre Dame in South Bend is the conclusion of a one-two opening punch for Vanderbilt. 
"It's not just another game for us. We're coming off a bye week where we're trying to get some things straightened out 
see CHANGE I page 18 
.. 
B.y KATHLEEN POLICY 
Sporrs Writer 
Last night, the Saint Mary's volleyball team defeated Hei­delberg College 15-10, 15-9, 15-8, improving their record to 2-2. 
Although there was much im­provement from the last time, Coach Julie Schroeder-Biek feels that the team still has a lot to work on due to their incon­sistency. 
• SAINT MARY's Vou.evsAtl 
Belles straight set winners over Heidelberg College 
"The team needs to improve in transition, defense, and our form," said Schroeder-Biek. 
There were fewer blocks given up in the game as the Belles attacked more this game, and were much more aggres­sive which helped in winning points and sideouts. 
Schroeder-Biek feels that the team is still not clearing in the attack. 
"It's still not quite there," Schroeder-Biek said. 
The team is going to have a specialized practice, dividing the team up between the two coaches pulling the setters and working the middles and the at­tackers. 
The key players were seniors Ann Lawrence, Kelley Prosser, and Sara Stronczek. Their leadership helped in the com­munication and especially in the team's play. Stronczek had 
see BELLES I page 18 

,. Football vs. Vanderbilt 
Women,s Soccer 
see page 15September 16, 1 :30 EST 
vs. Michigan Stare September 15, 7:30 vs. Stanford September 17, Noon 
Volleyball • Phillips may be back on 'Huskers 
at Mortar Board Premiere Sept. 15-16 West Lafayette, Ind. 
Cross Country see page 16 ar Ohio Stare September 15 
Mens Soccer • Steelers react to new NFL rules 
ar Rutgers Sept. 15/Seton Hall Sept. 17 see page 15 






