
Tuesday, March 7, 1995• Vol. XXVI No. 101 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
SMC junior class to face second election today 
By LAURA FERGUSON Saint Mary's No:ws Editor 
Due to the unusual results of the class officer Plnction for the Saint Mary's class of 1997 last month. seven tickets will be on today's ballot for the second election. 
During the initial election, the only ticket on llw ballot did not receive the offices due to a <;ubstantial number of abstaining votes. 
The ticket of Kelly Dunn/ Stephanie Wilhnrding/ Mia Pavlik/ Brigid Keyers proposes an open class forum, a junior class spirit week, intra-class activities, and a Saint Mary's/Notre Damn Dance-a-thon on their platform. They also suggest a welcome back bash, tailgaters, a dass trip, study breaks and an adopt-a-neigh­borhood program. 
The returning ticket of Leslie Field/ Emily HutTner/ Hebecca Kellogg/ Hebecca Korte aims to krep the same campaign platform as in the ini­tial election. They focus on initiating a junior jazz festival, a junior class tutoring team, a ser­vin~ project of delivering balloons to hospitalized C'hildren. and the eontinuation of the junior class mass. 
In addition, the Field ticket proposes an in<:rease in women's health issues, forums on Saint Mary's/Notre Dame relations, a junior class video yearbook and a pre-tailgate party in front of the residence halls. 
Leigh Anne Hutchinson/ Anna Hafaj/ Kelly Znrnwno/ Laura Loh are running on a platform hasnd on a elass talent show, a jog-a-thon to bPrwlit a local charity and a junior concert with tlw band "Mango Jam." 
Otlwr ideas presented on the Hutchinson ticket arn a elass ski trip, bonlire. spirit week, and a mass at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart with hoth the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame classes of IIJ'J7. 
The ticket of Samantha Mangiaforte/ Rose Maciejewski/ Megan Borchers/ Carrie Uhl pre­sPnts the idea of a year long theme-Women. This theme would be incorporated through trips 
see PLATFORMS I page 4 
• CAMPUS LJFE COUNCIL 
O'Hara responds to resolution 
By EDWARD IMBUS 
Associate News Editor 
Vice President of Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara responded yesterday to the recent CLC resolution regard­ing GLND/SMC recognition in a letter written to Council members. 
The letter, which was also reprint­ed in Monday's Observer, stated that the administration would not recog­nize GLND/SMC, as the Council had appealed to her to do so. O'Hara cited many of the same reasons that she delineated during the CLC's last meeting on Feb. 20. 
Since GLND/SMC took a value-neu­tral stance towards homosexual behavior and had encouraged the University to steer gays and lesbians towards monogamous relationships, the letter said that the group's mis­sion was not consistent with Church teaching, a requirement for all orga­nizations recognized by Student Affairs. 
But O'Hara also noted in the letter that "I believe that I ... presumed too much about the adequacy of our efforts in prior years ... It is Student Affairs' responsibility to develop meaningful alternatives beyond the services offered to individual stu­dents." 
In order to "do a better job of meeting the needs of our gay and les­bian students," O'Hara's letter announced the formation of an ad hoc committee composed of two rec­tors, two senior members of both the 
see CLC I page 4 


The Observer/ Kris Adidarma 

Tooting their horns 

Under the direction of Professor Luther Snavely, Jr., the University of Notre Dame Concert Band rehearses for their March 20 performance, which will be held at the Joyce Athletic Convocation Center. 


Homosexual alums struggle with acceptance 
Pclitor's Note: This is the first installment ofa four-part series C':ramining the dilemma of bl'ing gay and Catholic. 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
A~<ociate No:ws Editor 
The message that Chuck Col­hPrt and other homosexual alums of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's have for administration oflieials and other alums comes al'ross clearly: 
Being homosexual and Catholic can be reconciled. 
llowever, in the 20 years since the first gay alumni group was formed by graduates, rpc·ognition has been just as hard to come by for homosex­ual alumni organizations as it has been for Gay and Lesbians nf Notre Dame and Saint 1\lary's College (GLND/SMC). 
Many gay alumni feel cut off from Notre Dame, said Colbert ('78), who is eo-chair of the Gay and Lesbian Alumni of Notre Dam<~ and Saint Mary's (GALA­ND/SMC). "Many of us feel alienated from and unwcleome at our alma mater -unless, of ('OIIrse, we remain in the dos­
,., ... 
CAl A-ND/SMC is the latest in a line of homosexual alumni :•rnups. Formed in 1993 by four alums, including Colbert, its membership list has grown to over 450 names, with about five new names added each week. 
Its mission statement includes promoting solidarity and friendship among lesbian, gay, and bisexual graduates. faculty and staff; sponsoring activities -charitable, educational, spiritual, and athletic -which promote a positive gay and les­bian image; and to improve communication with school offi­cials, according to the organi­zation's by-laws. 
While the first two goals have been easily accomplished ­with such activities as a barbe­cue with Boston College's gay group, Lambda Association, prior to last fall's Boston Col­lege-Notre Dame football game -improving relations with the administration has been diffi­cult. 
"It's painful and embarrass­ing. [University officials] think they need to keep a distance from us because they would get in hot water with some very conservative Catholics who can't stand the idea that there are gay Catholics," Colbert said. 
"It's a shock when they lind out there are gay people who are good citizens and love foot-
Gayandt

Catholic ' 

Part 1 of 4 ~"1 
ball and are faithful Catholics," he continued. 
Colbert first realized he was gay during his undergraduate years and did not go public until his junior year. According to him, the experience was very painful. 
"It was really awful and scary," he said. "I never knew who I could trust." 
The underground gay group at the time, Gay Students at Notre Dame (GSND), was very supportive, Colbert said. 
"However, the group was comprised mostly of graduate students," he said. "Being an undergrad, I didn't feel as con­nected with the graduate stu­
den~s." 
Two decades later, gay and lesbian organizations are facing the same problems. 
The alumni, fund-raising, and public relations -not the Church -stop the University from passing a non-discrimina­tion policy that includes sexual orientation, according to Col­

bert. "The school is selling out to the ideologically rigid," he said. 
Homosexual alumni cite the administration's fear of the "gay lifestyle" -whereby gays supposedly commit immoral acts while living together -as the reason the University has continued to bow to perceived outside pressures. However, the so-called gay lifestyle is only a myth, Colbert said. 
"There is no such thing as a gay lifestyle," he said. "By go­ing to Notre Dame, we've been instilled with the same values as other members of the Notre Dame community. We're quali­fied to be on the public scene because we have those values. 
"GALA-ND/SMC is not about promoting an immoral lifestyle. It's a support group," Colbert continued. "The school does not see homosexuals as people. They need to drop the gay lifestyle perception." 
Colbert and GALA-ND/SMC have called for the administra­tion to enter into a dialogue to confront their differences. They hope to talk with the Notre Dame Alumni Association during a reunion scheduled for early this summer. 
"We gay Fighting Irish de­serve the same privileges -no more, no less -as everybody else," Colbert said. "And we in­tend to press for them. As our numbers keep increasing, even­
tually Notre Dame will  ac­ 
knowledge us."  
Dan  Burr  ('73  M.A.,  '77  

Ph.D.), a member of GALA­ND/SMC from Covington, Ky., agrees. 
"On issues of sexuality, Notre Dame is an anachronism," Burr said. "But the lives of gays and lesbians are not on hold. Notre Dame cannot keep our exis­tence a secret." 
But Colbert stressed that de­spite the lack of cooperation between the two sides, GALA­ND/SMC's ultimate goal is to establish good relations. 
"We can be a huge resource to the University," Colbert said. "If gays are ever considered true sons and daughters of the University, it could use us to deal with the issue." 
Confronting the issue is some­thing GALA-ND/SMC would like to see the administration do. 
"Notre Dame has an obliga­tion to bring intellect and in­sight into the debate," Colbert said. "Secular schools can't handle the faith issue. Notre Dame can." 
Like all Catholic gays and les­
see ALUMS I page 4 

r 
page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 



My fate and Patty O'Hara 
With some of the recent actions that the university has taken regarding the rights of its students and its own rights in control­ling specific aspects of its students' lives, I have hflgun to question the deci­sion-making abilities of this institution that serves 
Marcy Dinius as our sort of pseudo-home. Campuses Editor 
Coming to Notre Dame involves more than just choosing a school for its academic opportunities. Since everyone during their freshmen year is required to live on campus, it involves choosing an entirely nflw lifestyle, . Thus, for your first year, you are completely immersed in the society that is Notre Dame-academics, politics, "family," and more. 
Perhaps the most intimate and, thus, influ­ential aspect of this setting is the person (or pPople) that the university has assigned to sharing your new "home" with you -your roommate. 
I remember the instant fear upon meeting 
that we would each be spending a year in 
rlose contact with someone with whom we 
SPP.mingly had nothing in common but a 
room, the first few weeks of formality as we 
tried to abandon the idea of territory within 
thfl room, and the process of discovering the 
f(Hirks of our different personalities. 
I also remember that seeming eternity 
when you have yet to establish anything 
rPsembling a friendship so that you cling to 
the security of your automatic dining-hall 
partner/party companion, your roommate. 
After getting past these initial stages of our 
roommateship, my roommate became accus­
tomed to all of the bizarre aspects of my per­
">onality that I don't even realize that come 
with living with me. 
She has gone out of her way to make me a 
rart of her life by asking for my company 
when probably she would have rather been 
alone or with other friends and by setting 
nside time for us to spend together as friends 
who each have busy lives. 
As a result. we have stayed together for our 
sophomore year, and, though this year has 
brought problems for us both, some larger 
than we ever could have imagined. 
Our roommateship has become a true 
friendship, bringing much solace to us both 
and providing a home when seemingly there 
were no others. 
I remember once resenting being intro­
duced to other people as my roommate's 
roommate rather than as her friend. Yet I 
now realize that the title and the role of 
roommate is inclusive of a friendship that 
onre I could only hope to enjoy. 

Since I have been given such a fortunate 
fate by the Office of Residence Life or 
whomever was responsible for my room 
assignment. I am thankful that the university 
made at least one major decision that has 
positively affected my life. 

Yet, since all of this was probably decided 
hy some computer and completely at random, 
maybe the university should be a little more 
aware of how even its slightest actions can 
direct the lives of its individual students ... or 
ll~ave the big decisions to that seemingly­
omniscient computer. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column ftrP those of the author and not necessarily fhosP ofThe Observer. 


News Lab Tech Ethan Hayward Eric Ruerhling Jamie Heisler 
Production Viewpoint Dave Diaz Rae Sikula 
Susan Marx Meaghan Smith 
Graphics Accent 
Chris Mullins Jenny Gunzelman Pete Rubinas 
Special Guest Editor Sports 
John Elter Dave Treacy 
"llw Ohserver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday ' "·err during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of ; I . ·\o;...nci:ued Press. All reproduc£ion rights are reserved. 
The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, March 7, 1995 
• Wom.o AT A Gu~ce 
Afghan government disregards truce, unleashes attack 

KABUL, Afghanistan 

The Muslim holy month of Ramadan was barely over Monday when the gov­ernment abandoned a U.N. cease-fire and launched a major assault against a rival Islamic faction in southwestern Kabul. 
There was no immediate word on casualties. although many civilians live in the area. 
The attack was seen as an attempt by President Burhanuddin Rabbani's gov­ernment to gain control of the entire capital and strengthen its position ahead of a U.N.-sponsored peace plan. 
Many had feared renewed fighting in Kabul after the weekend holiday of Eid al-Fitr, which marks the end of the month of Ramadan when Muslims fast from sunrise to sunset. 
"It's not a big surprise. Everyone was expecting there would be more fight­ing," said David Lockwood, the U.N. Development Program representative in Pakistan. 
Jets bombed neighborhoods con­trolled by Hezb-e-Wahadat, a Shiite Muslim opposition group, and were followed by rocket. artillery and heavy 
Lugar begins tuning his campaign 
INDIANAPOLIS 
So, Sen. Richard Lugar is in the race for the Republican presidential nomi­nation next year and nobody, outside of Indiana, seems to be paying much attention. In a bit of self-deprecating humor, he notes that he's ahead of Kansas Sen. Bob Dole in Indiana. That may not be much when you're counting electoral votes, but at least it's a start. 

Besides, Lugar says, it's early. "Everybody's candidacy has to be predicated on the fact there's a year to go," he said c:in his return to Indiana after announcing that he's going to formally announce, in April, that he's a candi­date. The primary election trail for the nomination to challenge a sitting president is littered with the bones of one-time frontrunners starved by the unexpected disaf­fection of voters and contributors. Still, the Republican nomination and the White House is a long shot for Lugar or, as history suggests, any candidate from Indiana. 
15-year-old held in slaying of parents 
NEWNAN, Ga. 
A 15-year-old boy who shot his parents to death as they watched television apparently was upset they had given him a curfew, police said today. "Our investigation shows that this was not just a sudden, spur-of-the­moment thing. This had been thought out," Coweta County Sheriff Mike Yeager said at a news conference. Jason Lewis. a student at East Coweta High School, was held on murder charges in the slayings of James and Lillian Lewis. He will be tried as an adult, Yeager said. The parents, both factory workers, were shot several times each in the head as they sat on the living room couch Sunday night in their mobile home in this rural Atlanta suburb, Yeager said. Both were shot from the front. A 12-gauge shotgun belonging to Jason's father was recovered in the family vehicle in which Jason fled after the slayings, police said. Jason was arrested at a friend's house. Three of his friends were being ques­tioned today to determine if they knew anything about the shootings beforehand, Yeager said. 

Thesday, March 7 Accu-Weather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

machine gun fire that echoed through­out Kabul. 
"We launched an offensive ... from three directions this morning," said government spokesman, Dr. Abdullah, who uses only one name. "We have not met any considerable resistance and our troops are still moving forward. Fighting is continuing." 
Streets near the front-line were virtu­ally deserted Monday as the govern­ment barrage intensified. Kabul had been relatively calm in recent weeks since a U.N. peace mission announced an informal cease-fire last month. 
The U.N. peace plan, which already has been delayed a month, calls for President Rabbani to hand over power to a multiparty governing council March 21. 
The U.N.-devised council is seen as the best hope for ending the three years of civil war that erupted after the Islamic factions ousted the Soviet­backed communist government in 1992. 
More than 20,000 people have been 
killed and huge tracts of the once lively capital have been 
destroyed in the civil war. 
Telescopes aimed at exploded star 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. 

Endeavour's astronauts aimed powerful ultraviolet telescopes Monday at a newly exploded star that is thou­sands of times brighter than it was before it burst. Nova Aquilae erupted in a thermonuclear explosion a month ago. Before reaching this boiling point, the white dwarf star had been tugging material from its larger compan­ion star and built up a layer of hot gas that eventually blew up and was hurtled into space. Scientists believe a new buildup of gas will start soon and that another out­burst will occur thousands of years from now. "Even though you just see a pinpoint of light, we can begin to interpret it in terms of drawing a three-dimensional pic­ture of this event," said Arthur Code, an astronomer at the University of Wisconsin at Madison who's in charge of one of the shuttle telescopes. Nova Aquilae is in the constellation Aquila, or Eagle, and is several thousand light years away. Another nova erupted in late January and yet another just a little over a week ago. Both of these also will be viewed by the telescopes. 
House debates restricting lawsuits 
WASHINGTON 

The woman who was awarded $2.7 million after 
spilling McDonald's coffee in her lap is invoked as a sym­
bol by both sides in the high-stakes battle over protecting 
businesses against consumer lawsuits. This week. 
Republicans hope the House will take a big step toward 
giving businesses the legal protection they have coveted 
for years. Votes are expected on proposals to make it 
harder for people to win punitive damages in lawsuits 
over harmful products. A separate bill would limit claims 
of securities fraud. The Clinton administration today 
came out against the legislation as currently drafted. In a 
letter to House Speaker Newt Gingrich. Attorney General 
Janet Reno and White House Counsel Abner Mikva called 
the legislation "too extreme" and "unfair, unnecessary 
and unwise." They said it would "tilt the legal playing 
field dramatically to the disadvantage of consumers and 
middle-class citizens." In Smyrna, Ga., for a speech, 
Gingrich said today the GOP has no intention of trying to 
block legitimate lawsuits. 
The Accu-Weather® forecast lor noon, Tuesday, March 7. 
............... 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 0 1995Accu-Wealher, Inc. 
ti'..."i a &'SJ rn~ 0 ~ § {) b u 
HICJH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY Pl CLOUOY CLOUDY 
vaAssocMtedPmss 

Atlanta  62  45  Los Angeles  64  45  Norfolk  55  43  
Boston  44  35  Lansing  32  31  Philadelphia  53  40  
Chicago  34  31  Miami  78  72  Phoenix  62  45  
Denver  29  29  Minneapolis  26  24  Portland  55  34  
Kansas City  35  32  New York  54  39  St. Louis  48  37  


----~--~--­

Tuesday, March 7, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
• CAMPUS BRIEF 


Forum addresses homosexuality
The University of Notre Folkert completed just one 
Dame's electric race car failed to finish Sun., March 5 in an SO-kilometer race at Firebird International Raceway in Phoenix. 
Arizona State University, rac­ing with new nickel cadmium batteries, finished first, fol­lowed by Bowling Green State University. 
The Irish Racing Team expe­rienced several electrical and braking problems during prac­tice and qualifying on Friday and Saturday, but appeared to have the complications fixed by race time Sunday. 
With veteran driver Mark Folkert behind the wheel, Notre Dame ran in first or sec­ond through the first ten laps of the race. But after a pit stop, 
• SECURITY BEAT 
FRI., MARCH 3 
10:41 a.m. A Dillon Hall resident re­ported the theft of his license plate from his vehicle parked in the 006 parking lot. 
10:56 a.m. A visitor was transported by Security to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of Injuries sustained during a fall. 
4:40 p.m. Security responded to a two­car accident in the library circle. There were no injuries reported. 
5:20 p.m. Security responded to a two­car accident on Ivy Road. There were no injuries reported. 
SAT., MARCH 4 
12:05 a.m. Security confiscated !-shirts heing sold by a Pittsburgh, PA resident. They were being sold illegally in the park­Ing lot of JACC. 
more lap before pulling out due to what the team believes is a problem with the gearbox. 
In an exhibition drag race Friday, Notre Dame finished third in a field of 35 race cars of all makes and models. 
Developed by undergraduate students in the College of Engi­neering, the Notre Dame vehi­cle is in its second year of com­petition. The project is part of an effort by colleges and uni­versities to advance the tech­nology of electrically powered vehicles and provide under­graduates with hands-on re­search experience. 
Notre Dame next will race May 5-6 in the EV Grand Prix at Richmond (Va.) International Racetrack. 
3:36 p.m. A visitor was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of injuries sustained during a fall. 
4:07 p.m. Security confiscated 41 cases of beer from a student and a visitor who violated the University's alcohol pol­icy. 
10:20 p.m. Security cited a South Bend resident for speeding. He was later arrested for resisting law enforcement. 
SUN., MARCH 5 
1:21 p.m. Security responded to a hit and run accident in the A 1 0 parking lot. 
5:26 p.m. A Morrissey Hail resident reported the theft of hubcaps from his vehicle while parked in the 006 parking lot. 
7:45 p.m. Security responded to a two car accident on lake Road. There were no injuries reported. 

The movies as they were meant to be: Classic films. Big screen. Bargain prices. 
Tuesday, March 7,1:30 and 7:30p.m. Marion Brando Eva Marie Saint Karl Malden Lee J. Cobb 
On the Waterfront 
Winner of eight Academy Awards, including Best Picture, Best Actor (Brando), Best Supporting Actress (Saint), Best Director (Elia Kazan) and Best Original Screenplay. This 1954 powerhouse presents an unflinching look at New York City's harbor unions. An unforgettable movie. 
$2 adults, $1 students 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE 
Assistant News Editor 
Homosexuality at Notre Dame must be talked about, ac­cording to members of Gays and Lesbians of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College (GLND/SMC), who shared their experiences of life on the Notre Dame campus last night in Pangborn Hall. 
The forum, called "Let's Talk and Understand," included a discussion by Co-Chairs of GLND/SMC John Blandford and Kelly Smith, sophomore Tony Silva, and junior Shelley Stefan. 
Smith, a student at Saint Mary's, who was the first to speak, said she "came to terms" with her homosexuality at the age of 21. Before this time, she "had been struggling" with the idea that she was homosexual, partly because she had been raised as a Catholic and because she had heard stereotypes made about les­bians. 
According to Smith, the time period before she came out with her sexuality was one full of "depression, struggle, and anguish." Smith had trouble academically, as well. 
"I was withdrawing from a lot of my classes. I had trouble ac­cumulating credits, and I had trouble with financial aid," she said. In December of 1991, Smith had a "terminal leave of abscence" from Saint Mary's. It was not until she had met with other people like herself that she learned to like herself, according to Smith. Honesty, she said, was what strength­ened her relationship with the people to whom she exposed her orientation. 
Blandford, a 1983 Notre Dame graduate, who resided in Morrissey Hall while on cam­pus, said he came out during the second semester of his se­nior year to one of his theology professors. He said this was an important part of his coming to terms with his homosexuality. 
"It's important to tell the peo­ple you care about (about your homosexuality)." Blandford said. "People here are basical­ly good folks. This place has a good heart, despite what's go­ing on in the Dome." 
Stefan, a junior, said her first homosexual feelings may have come out when she was twelve. She said this feeling was one of "shame and guilt" and that she "put it away." Having "repressed" her feeling of being "different," Stefan had not "verbalized" her sexuality. Consequently, she was "utterly depressed and confused." 

"I didn't admit it to myself until this past summer," Stefan said of her homosexuality. "I was scared by it," Stefan said because, at the time, she had no gay friends from home, she was from a very conservative, traditional family, and she had never been exposed to homo­sexuality. 
Speaking of her family's de­nial of her homosexuality, de­spite the fact that she came out to them in October, Stefan said, "It's really sad that it has to be like this." 
In helping a person to come to terms with homosexuality, Stefan mentioned the impor­tance of "meeting receptive and open people." 
"I need a support group," she added. "It's essential to meet more people, to talk to people, in order to feel better about myself." 
Silva, who is chairperson of Support and Outreach, said that, upon admitting his homo­sexuality, he considered trans­ferring out of Notre Dame be­cause he thought it was "far too homophobic" for him. 
"I didn't think that there were other homosexuals at Notre Dame," he said. Silva eventually went to a GLND/SMC support group, and after the meeting, felt that he could "sur­vive" at Notre Dame, despite the fact that he knew he could never be truly happy here. Silva said that before he came out, he had feared the reaction of his roommates had they found out he was homosexual. 
Helping people to be more comfortable with homosexuali­ty is one way Silva would like to change things at Notre Dame. Speaking on the present day GLND/SMC group, Silva said, "We're not just here for gay people, we're here for hetero­sexuals as well." 
VVhen asked about the "gay culture" at Notre Dame, Smith said that other than Truman's, a local dance bar and coffee house, there are not a lot of so­cial places in this area for ho­mosexuals to come together in a "relaxed" setting. Stefan called the bar, "a gay bar," and she said that it had "good en­ergy." 
Blandford said that even though Notre Dame has a good heart, being a homosexual here was not easy. "As a gay male, I left here loving it and hating
it... 
t 

In response to the letter writ­ten by Professor Patricia O'Hara concerning the pro­posal of an ad hoc committee to deal with the issue of homosex­uality at Notre Dame, Blandford said, "I don't oppose the idea of a committee." However, he said, "committees are a way of the administra­tion's killing projects here at Notre Dame." 
Blandford also disagreed with O'Hara's wanting to appoint a committee to advise her "apart from recognition of GLND/SMC or another student organiza­tion," on how the administra­tion could do a better job of "meeting the needs of our gay and lesbian students." 
According to Blandford, this means that O'Hara does not want the committee to talk with her about the recognition of GLND/SMC. 
Blandford commented on the effort of the administration to meet both its responsibilities to the Church and its responsibili­ties to the students of Notre Dame by achieving a "middle ground" with its creation of this committee. 
"Patty O'Hara's middle ground is not middle ground at all," Blandford said. He said her proposal lacks "sincerity". 
Silva said that his problem with O'Hara's letter rests in O'Hara's proposal that the ad hoc committee submit "a pre­liminary written report sum­marizing the status of its con­versations" on May 1, 1995. In response to this date, Silva asked, "What do I do right now?" 
Commenting on the number of people who came to hear the discussion, Pangborn Hall Pres­ident Cynthia Poulakidas men­tioned that the size of the audi­ence was roughly twice as large as it had been for the forum given by University President Edward "Monk" Malloy in Pangborn on "How Women Have Enhanced the Catholic Character of Notre Dame in the Last Twenty Years. 
"Obviously this reflects the significance of this issue to Notre Dame students," Poulaki­das said. 
At the end of the talk, the people who came to hear the panel discussion were given the opportunity to sign a petition entitled, "We are all ND/SMC ­a Statement of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Community Regarding Diversity and Accep­tance." 
LENTEN FACULTY RETREAT 
For Single and Married Notre Dame Faculty and Spouses 
Friday, March 24-Saturday, March 25 8:00p.m. 8:00p.m. 
A time of quiet and personal reflection, tire retreat will include opportunity for shared reflection on tl1e biblical texts for tire Sundays of Lent. 
Offered by: David Burrell, C.S.C. and John Gerber, C.S.C. Place: Mary's Solitude on the St. Mary's College Campus Cost: $35.00 per person, three Saturday meals included. RESERVATIONS AI{E REQUESTED BY MARCH 10, BUT WILL BE ACCEPTED UNTIL MARCH 17. Only 14 places are available. 
Contact Fr. John Gerber, C.S.C., lloly Cross House, 631-8474 or Sharon Harwell at Fischer Community Center 631-8607. 


~---------~---­
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, March 7, 1995 
CLC 
continued from page 1 

Counseling Center and Campus Ministry, two theology profes­sors, two homosexual students, and the new student body pres­ident and vice president. 
All in all, the committee would be composed of seven University staff members, two faculty members and four stu­dents. The purpose of the group would be to explore the issue and advise O'Hara. 
In addition, the committee has been charged with answer­ing three questions: 
• 
How the University can cre­ate a setting for a support group for gay students within the purview of Catholic Church doctrine, 

• 
The types of programs that would help Student Affairs staff, including RA's and rec­tors, "to better equip them to meet the needs of (Notre Dame's) gay and lesbian stu­dents," and 

• 
What other measures can be taken to end harassment of homosexual students. 


O'Hara also unveiled a pro­ject by Campus Ministry to cre­ate a group setting for gay and lesbian students "respectful of Church teaching." The project was initiated last September and approved by both Student Affairs and the "Officer's Group," the senior officers of the University. 
The group's existence was kept quiet, O'Hara's letter stat­ed, to stress the confidential nature of the group. 
Reaction to O'Hara's letter at the CLC meeting yesterday was cautious. 
Many asked how the homo­sexual students would be cho­sen. Student Body President David Hungeling and Assistant Vice-President for Resident Life William Kirk stated that O'Hara planned on consulting rectors and Campus Ministry to find students who were "comfort­able in participating." 
It would not matter to O'Hara, both said, if the people chosen were members of GLND/SMC, but GLND/SMC would not be used directly to find the representatives. 
CLC members Father Patrick Sullivan and Ava Collins said that O'Hara should clarify how the student appointments were to be made. Sullivan said that a graduate student should be considered in light of an accreditation report that cites Notre Dame for a lack of out­reach for graduate students. 
He also remarked that "the credibility of the administration is riding with this committee." 
GLND/SMC co-chair John Blandford stated that he and his group "had no problem with the committee," but had reser­vations over the University's continuing stance against recognition. 
''I'm bothered that recogni­tion of GLND/SMC is off the table," he said. He said that he was also bothered by the state­ment that "GLND/SMC is not respectful of Church teaching." 
Nikole Niedlinger, the off­campus co-president and GLND/SMC member, was "angry." 
"The CLC is supposed to ad­vise Student Affairs, so we did," she said. "But (O'Hara) made another committee to advise her." 
She was also troubled by the fact "that all appointments were made by O'Hara, includ­ing the student representa­tives." 
Many focused on the potential good the committee could do, such as Father Terrence Linton and Sister Joris Binder. who both agreed to serve on the committee. 
Jonathan Patrick, the student body president elect, said that he intends to accept O'Hara's invitation to be a member. and to routinely apprise CLC on the committee's progress. 
"I'd like to bounce ideas off the people here (in the CLC) and get advice from them," he said. "I really think it is possi­ble for a student support group, beyond the individual meet­ings." 

AIUDlS 
continued from page 1 
bians, Colbert does not see a ronllict between homosexuality and Catholicism. At the same time, he agrees that the con­rPpt of religion should indeed be included in discussions of homosexuality. 
"Human sexuality is certainly a legitimate issue for morality," he said. "I would expect that a faith would support one's desire to enter into a loving relationship." 
Colbert is excited by the cur­rent events on campus sur­rounding the GLND/SMC con­troversy. 
''I'm inspired by what GLND/SMC is doing," he said. 
Colbert cites a number of reasons for why the campus has opened up to the idea of homosexuality. 
"Part of it has to do with the gays in the military debate. Partly our culture has been bombarded with it in the '90s," he said. "The result is that the campus is caught up with the general national comfort level with homosexuality." 
And that is something that would never have been ex­pected 20 years ago. 



Platforms 
continued from page 1 
to the women's shelter, a toi­letry and clothing drive, and an AIDS fundraiser. They also propose a class shopping trip to Chicago, a class T-shirt, out­door class masses, and recon­dliation services during Advent and Lent. 
Cassie Sears/ Kerri Carter/ Kim Pohlman/ Kim Holston propose a monthly newsletter for students abroad, increased alumni relations through brown bag lunch lectures, a 50/50 raffle to benefit the Bmast Cancer Association, and weekly rosary prayers during I.ent. 
The Sears ticket also suggests n class road trip to Cedar Point or Great America amusement parks, a sesquicentennial time c·:1psule, and a junior class pic­lure. 
The ticket comprised of lleather Steinmiller/ Colleen Duffy/ Melissa Roberts/ Kelly Cook includes a class tobogganing trip, a class bon­fire and a junior class week to promote class unity on their list of platform ideas. 


Other ideas include spiritual discussion, both motivational speakers and graduate school representatives and open and advertised board meetings. 
Katie Trumper with running mates Kathleen Michaels/ Mary Gallagher/ Becky Rodarte pro­pose guest speakers on profes­sions as well as career work­shops and lectures for the class of 1997. 
They also suggest the pro­motion of ethnic awareness, class study breaks, mixers with the Notre Dame community, intramural activities between majors, stress reduction semi­nars, and a class walk-a-thon as a fundraiser. Volunteering at soup kitchens, working with women and children at shelters and tutoring are other ideas mentioned in the Trumper tick­et platform. 
Northwestern College of Chiropractic 
is now accepting applications for its next three entering classes. (April 1995, September 1995, January 1996) 
General requirements at tim(' ofentry include: 
• 
At least 2-3 years of undergraduate college in a health science or basic science degree program. (Inquire for a complete list of specific requirements.) 

• 
Aminimum G.P.A. of 2.5. (A more competitive G.P.A. is favored.) 

• 
Apersonal interest in a career as a primary care physician. 


Northwestern College of Chiropractic offers a rigorous four year professional education. Our focus on science, diagnosis, chiropractic methods, patient care and research provides our graduates with the tools they need to work as primary care physicians in the health care environment. NWCC is fully accredited by North Central Association of Colleges and Schools and the Council on Chiropractic Education. 


Call: 1-800-888-4777 or 888-4777 Write: Director ofAdmissions 
250 I West 84th Street, Minneapolis, MN 55431 


Russians escalate action against rebels 
R\' CHRIS BIRD 
_,1 cmciared Press 
SAMASHKY, Russia 
Russian forces pushed ahead with an offensive in western Chechnya today, hitting the rnbel-held village of Achkhoy l\1artan with rockets and ar­tillery. 
Cars, buses and trucks full of rPfngees fled Achkhoy Martan and the neighboring village of Sam ashky. 20 miles west of the bombed out capital of Grozny. 
On Sunday, the Russian mili­tary command said its troops raptured a key section of road nParby. 
Bebels apparently offered no 1 r•sistance when the Russians t · cok up their new position, less than a mile south of a rebel nnn on the Rostov-Baku high­\' ay that runs across the S!'ressionist land. 
The road that fell was the I ;st safe link between Sa mashky and Achkhoy­l\1artan, and the new Russian outpost cuts ofT Samashky from nthnr rebel-held areas. 

promptu meeting of women and elders who were upset by the bombardment. Fearing the Russians will soon turn their high explosives on them, some at the meeting urged flight. 
"They (Russians) want to clear the village without a fight," said the worried com­mander of Chechen forces in the village, 35-year-old Akhmed Islamov. "We'll never surrender." 
&int c..Mary'sCollege Smior Class :Jonnal 
JiJpra 22, 1995 Century Center, South r&ul, :J!:N 7:OOp.m. -2:00a.m. Jllusic, CocktaJs, C'lJinner, C'lJancing 71:ktts: JBO.OO per couple 
EVERYONE WISHING TO AITEND MUST MAKE A $40.00 DEPOSIT
\ multiple GRAD rocket 
I:cuncher unleashed a volley nPar a Russian military post 

Dates:
·1 hout 1 mile west of Samashky. 
"They're bombing Achkhoy Martan," said a Russian colonel with Interior Ministry fnrces, who declined to be idPntified. 


Time: 
A low roll of explosions sounded a few seconds later as tho rockets slammed into the 

Place: 'illage. Four helicopter gun­ships floated above the trees, providing air support for the llussian artillery and rocket 1-:c IIP-ries. 
In Samashky, Chechen fight­' ··: tried to calm a rowdy, im-

Monday, March 6 Tuesday, March 7 Wednesday, March 8 
1:OOp.m. -3:00p.m. 
Haggar Game Room Saint Mary's College 
Balance Due By April 3, 1995 
Any Questions Call Jean @ 273-9303 or Isabel @ 284-5125 

Tuesday, March 7, 1995 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 5 
Ho01es buried in California slide United Way head on 





trial for fraud, theft
By JEFF WILSON 
Associated Press 
LA CONCHITA. Calif. 

Sentries stood watch today above an oozing hillside that al­ready had buried nine homes, ready to sound alarms if the rock and earth begin to move again. 
Some 200 of the 700 resi­dents of this beachside com­munity had been evacuated. 
Rain eased this morning, but officials said that didn't change the threat. 
"We're still anticipating a major slide," said Ventura County sheriffs spokeswoman June Seery. 
Two hundred of the town's 700 residents were either evac­uated or lost their homes when a wall of mud oozed into the community Saturday following heavy rain. No one was injured. 
This morning, crews of rail­road trains that usually roar through the southern edge of town at 65 mph were asked to 

Happy 22nd Birthday Tom Moran!! 
Love, 
Mom, Dad, Jessica, 
and Heather 
AP 

slow to 20 mph to lessen vibra­tions that could trigger another slide. 
About 35 miles to the south, a rock slide this morning blocked Malibu Canyon Road in MaliJ:m, four miles east of Pacific Coast Highway, said Los Angeles County public works spokes­woman Donna Guyovich. 
Meteorologists Jeff Gomberg said today another storm ex­pected later this week will be much stronger. 
"The way things are shaping up, it almost looks like what we had in January," he said. Dur­ing January's storms, the worst in nearly a decade, floods car­ried off several people, mud­slides covered parts of the Pa­cific Coast Highway and a rock slide killed two tourists. 
As the storm moved east­ward, overnight downpours in northern Arizona caused a flash flood this morning along Oak Creek flowing through Se­dona, pushing water into streamside homes and reaching windshield-high on parked cars. 
About 200 people were ad­vised to leave their homes, said Fire Department spokesman Gary Zimmerman. He said there was no word how many people actually left the scenic area south of Flagstaff. 
The storm also dumped up to 19 inches of snow in the Col­orado mountains, closing schools and mountain passes, and Silverton was cut off from the outside world for the sec­ond time in a week by heavy snow and avalanches. 
On Sunday, 2 1/2 inches of rain filled a crater that the La Conchita landslide had created, threatening to push even more soil into the town about 25 miles northwest of Los Angeles. 
Sheriff Larry Carpenter said emergency workers would try to sound sirens in case of a sudden collapse, but he told residents not to wait for a sig­nal: "If you hear the earth mov­ing or a roar, get out. Run." 
Geologists said the steep slopes bordering the commu­nity have been slipping for 23,000 years. 

By ANNE GEARAN 
Associated Press 
ALEXANDRIA, Va. 

The former head of the United Way spent hundreds of thousands of the charity's dol­lars on his own lavish lifestyle and young girlfriends, federal prosecutors said Monday. 
William Aramony and two former United Way of America associates stole more than $1 million to pay for chauffeur­driven gambling sprees and an elegant New York City apart­ment for Aramony's 17-year­old girlfriend, Assistant U.S. Attorney Randy Bellows said at the start of Aramony's fraud trial. 
"The simple truth of this case is how these three men at the pinnacle of their professions abused their positions of trust in order to enrich themselves," Bellows said. 
Aramony, 67, has pleaded innocent to a September in­dictment charging him with 53 felony counts of fraud, conspir­acy and money laundering. He faces up to about six years in prison if convicted. 
He served 22 years as presi­dent of the organization that oversees about 2,800 United Way chapters nationwide. 
Lawyer William Moffitt told the jury Aramony was a bril­liant money-raiser who dedi­cated his life to the United Way. In his final year, the charity raised about $3.5 bil­lion, Moffitt said. 
The charity's board of direc­tors -including some of the heads of the country's largest corporations -approved many of Aramony's spending prac­tices, but turned on him after the media detailed the expendi­tures in 1992, Moffitt said. 
"Then a blissful ignorance of what was going on at the United Way descended from the corporate mists," Moffitt said. 
Moffitt conceded Aramony was a womanizer. He was sep­arated from his wife when he began dating other women, and they later divorced. 
But the relationship Aramony began with Lori Villasor in the 1980s, when she was 17, was not the sordid affair the gov­ernment has portrayed, he said. 
She continued seeing him af­ter his health deteriorated and after he underwent castration because of cancer, Moffitt said. 
His declining health affected his memory, numerical skills and judgment, Moffitt said, not­ing that in 1986, a neurologist discovered that the frontal lobe of Aramony's brain was shrink­ing. 
Standing trial with Aramony are former top United Way aides Thomas J. Merlo, 64, and Stephen J. Paulachak, 69. They are accused of helping him di­vert money from the charity to private bank accounts and a spinoff company that prosecu­tors call a slush fund. 
SADD & Office of Alcohol & Drug encourage you to play it safe during Spring Break this year. Whatever your plans are, make sure they include these tips. 
A 
·Remember you don't have to be "drunk" to be impaired-even one or two drinks affect your driving skills. ·Stay out of dangerous situations involving alcohol, whether in a car, abar, or abedroom. ·Drinking, drugs and driving don't mix. ·Take your turn being a designated driver-get everyone where they are going safely. ·Respect other people's right, and your own-to choose not to drink. ·Respect state laws and campus policies. ·Wear your seat belt-It's your best protection against an 



B:R·)•.•...•.•.
.·:·:... /JD:..•

r impaired driver. 
. . . ~ . .· . . . .· ·. . . :· .:· . .~: . . .:: 
·Ifone ofyour friends drinks to the point ofpassing out, alcohol poisoning is a real danger. Ifyou are the least bit concerned, please seek medical attention. Better safe then Sorry! 
Fill out portion below to be eligible for the Grand Prize Play it safe...and sign the pledge 
Name 
School 
Address 
City/State/Zip 
Phone ( 
Have a Spring Brea to Remem er 
The Spring Break Pledge: 
• I promise not to drink and drive during •I will wear my seat belt, whether I'm Spring Break or let any of my friends driving or a passenger. 
• I will watch out for my friends, take care o
get behind the wheel impaired. myself and have a great Spring Break. 
• I will not ride in a car when the driver has been drinking. 
Signed 

ATTENTION: To be eligible for our local campusF\(awing for gifts o:t;,Jhe national drawing for a FREE car, please fill out both sides of the pledge coupon\ below and mail or drop by: Office of Alcohol and Drug Education, Mezzanine Level, LaFortune Student Center. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219-631-7970). 
~----~-­
p:~ge 6 The Observer • WASHINGTON NEWS Tuesday, March 7, 1995 
ACORN demonstrators prevent Gingrich speech 
By jOHN DIAMOND 
A«ociared Press 
WASHINGTON 

A ballroom full of county offi­cials was awaiting Newt Gin­grich's arrival Monday when the kitchen doors burst open to reveal not dessert but about 500 protesters waving empty lunch trays and chanting, "No more cuts." 
The demonstrators, many carrying small children, dodged waiters as they took over the head table and jammed the aisles, protesting reductions in the school lunch program. In doing so, they prompted cancellation of the House speaker's speech. 
"Don't take the food out of the children's mouths," said Maxine Nelson of Pine Bluff, Ark., who, like the others, belongs to the Association of Community Organizations for nl'form Now, or ACORN. 
raced with the raucous protest, luncheon organizers from the National Association of Counties abandoned plans fnr speeches by Gingrich and others before the 2,000 county officials. The demonstrators chnered the decision. 
Oistrict police officials said lhnre were no arrests. 
In addition to eliminating proposed cuts in school lunch­I'S, the protesters want an increase in the minimum wage, n national voter registration drive and funding for subsi­di7ed housing. 
Last week, House 

11Ppublicans advanced a pro­
posal to replace the federally 
mandated school lunch pro­
gram with a state-administered system funded by federal block grants. Opponents said it could lead to cuts in free and subsi­dized school lunches to the poor. 
The legislation would increase spending by 4.5 per­cent per year -up from $6.68 billion next year to $7.85 bil­lion in 2000 -but opponents say that would not keep pace with demand coupled with inflation. 
The demonstrators at the Washington Hilton Hotel were "just tragically misinformed," Gingrich later told reporters, questioning their motives and criticizing their behavior. "Why weren't they at work? Who are they? Who paid them?" 
"They broke into the meeting and had bullhorns, and their idea of a dialog was to chant with bullhorns," Gingrich said. "I thought that was an interest­ing commentary on those who would extort money out of the taxpayer." 
Although Gingrich was the protest's target, some demon­strators directed barbs at county officials, shouting through bullhorns that the cost of one of their baked chicken meals probably would finance a week of school lunches. 
The county officials, in turn, fumed. One NACO official said their luncheon leftovers were going to Washington homeless shelters. 
"This only makes me less supportive of their cause," said Shirley Greene, county com­mission chairwoman from Latah County, Idaho. 
McDade denied immunity 
By LAURIE ASSEO 
Associared Press 

WASHINGTON 
The Supreme Court today refused to shield Rep. Joseph McDade, R-Pa., from criminal charges of conspiracy, racke­teering and taking bribes from defense contractors. 
The court, without comment, turned down McDade's argu­ment that he is protected against such charges by the Constitution's ban on prosecut­ing members of Congress for their legislative acts. 
McDade, a 17-term con­gressman from the Scranton area, was indicted in May 1992 on charges of conspiracy, ac­cepting bribes and racketeer­ing. He has not yet stood trial. 
In other action today, the Supreme Court: 
-Ruled that a standard con­tract used in the securities in­dustry does not bar defrauded investors from collecting puni­tive damages. The 8-1 decision, potentially of enormous impor­tance for the securities indus­try, reinstated a $400,000 puni­tive-damages award two Illinois investors had won, and then lost, from Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. 
-Made it easier for employ­ers to revise or cancel health insurance and other benefits provided for their employees. Ruling unanimously in a New Jersey case, the justices said standard benefit-plan wording that gives a company the right to amend the plan is valid. 
-Allowed the government to stretch out its Medicare pay­ments to cover hospitals' losses from refinancing mortgage bonds. By a 5-4 vote, the court said federal authorities can re­pay such losses over a period of years instead of in a lump sum. 
In the McDade case, prosecu­tors say he took about $100,000 in campaign contri­butions, vacations and other gifts from various defense con­tractors in return for helping them get more than $50 million worth of contracts. 
McDade said the indictment should be dismissed under a provision of the Constitution that says members of Congress "shall not be questioned in any other place" for any "speech or debate in either House." 
The clause was intended to block the executive branch from using its powers of inves­tigation and prosecution to in­terfere with Congress' legisla­tive work. It generally has not been interpreted, however, as barring prosecution of mem­bers of Congress for bribery. 
A federal judge refused to dismiss the charges, and the 3rd U.S. Circuit Court of Ap­peals agreed last June. 
Prosecutors can show that McDade was a member of Congress and of House commit­tees that oversee defense ap­propriations, so long as proof is not offered regarding his leg­islative acts, court said. 
The appeals court said there is a difference between official acts and legislative acts. The immunity from prosecution for legislative acts does not extend to all official acts. 


T tle 0 tlserver 
the Advertising Department is now accepting applications for 

dvertising Account Executives 
Are you creative? Do you like working with people? Do you want experience in sales? Do you need some cash? join us! 
Submit a one page statement with resume to John Potter in 314 LaFortune by Spring Break. Call John at 1-6900 or 4-1023 with questions. 
Community at ND/SMC is just beginning. 
A Tolerance/ Awareness Committee is forming to serve the Notre Dame/Saint Mary,s Community. The work ofthe committee will be the support ofunderrepresented/marginalized groups on campus, and the hope is that by such a show ofsupport, the attitudes which make for exclusion (ranging from apathy to bit­ter intolerance) will begin to change. This is an opportunity to get involved, ifyou aren ,t already, or to get more involved, if you find you have more to give. Ifyou,re interested, there,s an organizational meeting in the basement ofLaFortune, Wednesday, March 8th at 7:30p.m. 
For more information, please call: Gina x4800, Chris x3611 or Amy x4885 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------~----------------------------·--------------­
Ti1csday, March 7, 1995 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS 


UN: Nations must assist each other 
lly MAITI HUUHTANEN 
:\«ociared Press 
COPENHAGEN 

An international poverty con­f"Prrmce opened Monday with poor nations pressing for more nid and the U.N. chief warning that the meeting could run nground on indifference. 
"The problem of the United Nations is to cope with ... donor fatigue, conference fatigue," said U.N. Secretary-General Jloutros Boutros-Ghali. 
"Fatigue will provide some­thing more dangerous, which is in1lifference," he said. "Our r,oal is to show ... we are all of 1hP same community. We must lwlp nach other." 
Western diplomats in pin-
developing countries indicated

..,_______________________,.. that it would fight for the aid. 
"We enjoin creditor nations and multinational financial in­

c.~ GR£AT \YALL 
stitutions to take more mean­
ingful steps toward debt reduc­
tion," said the caucus leader, 

Voted # 1 Oriental Restaurant 
1991, 1992, and 1993 
Cielito F. Habito of the Philip­pines. 
The stalemate did not bode well for any agreement on ac­

available for 
up to 200 
tion in the summit's final doc­ument, to be signed March 12 by nearly 120 leaders, includ­ing German Chancellor Helmut 





Understanding 
Spoa•ored bv SMC Sophomore Cia•• 
ND/SMC Stacleat Goverameatll Food wiD be pnvlded 
stripes, Africans in adire robes and Arab delegates in keffieh headdresses mingled in the central hall at the sprawling convention center. 
On bulletin boards hung hun­dreds of drawings, paintings and poems by children -most from developing countries ­expressing their visions of poverty and starvation. 
In an emerging standoff be­tween wealthy and poor coun­tries, delegates at the 183-na­tion meeting argued behind closed doors over setting up a fund to help eradicate poverty. 
A proposal for "new and ad­ditional" aid to poor nations is among the most contentious ­and one U.S. delegates said pri­Kohl and U.S. Vice President Al Gore. 

The United Nations said suc­cess at the poverty summit should be measured in the con­vergence of ideas, rather than hard commitments, as it tried to justify the assembly's $28 million cost. 
Boutros-Ghali said 1. 3 billion people -more than one in four -live in poverty and 1.5 billion do not have access to basic health care. 
But the summit was tinged with an air of futility, com­pounded by the absence of key leaders, notably President Clinton. 
Mexican President Ernesto Zedillo reversed plans to at­tend, while the leaders of Brazil and Venezuela pulled out for unannounced reasons and King Hussein of Jordan canceled for health reasons. 
Among the debates, the mes­sage from the United Nations and wealthy countries was that poorer nations must take care of themselves. 
"The world will not have changed much by (next) Mon­day," admitted Germany's min­ister for labor and social af­fairs, Norbert Bluem. 
page 7 
Serbs block aid convoys 
By SRECKO LATAL 
Associated Press 
SARAJEVO 
Bosnian Serbs followed through today on their threat to block aid convoys into Sarajevo, and a top U.S. offi­cial went to Croatia to try to prevent a spring war. 
Snipers killed a 60-year-old man in his garden on the southern outskirts of Sarajevo on the fifth straight day of sniping in the Bosnian capital. 
The Serbs said they would ban land convoys into Sarajevo for a week to press demands for a larger share of aid. Air supplies, which account for about 50 percent of the city's needs, were not affected. 
The Serbs want 38 percent of the supplies, up from the 23 percent they get now, said Kris Janowski of the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees. 
"We think they are already getting their fair share," Janowski said. 
In neighboring Croatia, U.S. Assistant Secretary of State Richard C. Holbrooke was try­ing to persuade President Franjo Tudjman to withdraw his threat to evict 12,000 U.N. peacekeepers when their man­date expires March 31. 
Such a departure is likely to touch off fresh fighting between Croats and rebel Serbs as they grab territory vacated by the U.N. peace­keepers who have kept an uneasy three-year truce. The Serbs hold just under one­third of Croatia. 
U.S. Defense Secretary William C. Perry met his British, French and German counterparts over the week­end to discuss a general U.N. pullout from Croatia and Bosnia, if necessary. 
Both the Serbs and Bosnia's Muslim-led government have said they will fight again if peace talks do not resume by May 1. But diplomacy is get­ting nowhere more than halfway through a four-month truce. 
Morgue officials in Sarajevo said Ramo Husic, 60, was shot dead in his garden by a sniper this morning. 
Another man and a 14-year­old boy were wounded near a 
U.N. 
personnel carrier manned by Egyptians, said Capt. Myriam Socachy of the 

U.N. 
The same vehicle came under fire from Serb positions early today and returned fire, Socachy said. 

U.N. 
anti-sniper teams out­side the Holiday Inn hotel fired two rounds from a 20 mm gun atop an armored personnel carrier at snipers peppering the area with bullets. 

U.N. 
officials urged both Serb and government forces to comply with previous anti­sniping agreements. 


Elsewhere, trucks brought badly needed supplies to Dutch peacekeepers in the eastern enclave of Srebrenica on Sunday. It was the first resupply convoy since Feb. 12. But Serbs refused permission for a medical convoy. 
The Serbs are obstructing convoys to Sarajevo and else­where, apparently to get more aid for themselves and because they want to face peo­ple who are weaker rather than stronger if fighting resumes after May 1. 



VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Tuesday, March 7, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 

News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advenising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager...................... Ryan Maylayter Spons Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director...............Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor............... Elizabeth Regan Controller..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dome du Lac and Saint Mary"s College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­mri.tls represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor. Accent Ediwr, PhotO Ediwr. Sports EditOr, and Saint Mary's EditOr. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of rhe authors, and not necessarily those of Th~ Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Norre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through lettC"rs is encouraged. 
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor /Viewpoint Sports News/Photo Accent/Saint Mary's Day Editor/Production General Information Observer Phone Lines 
631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 
631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 
631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 
631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
631-4540 Fax 631-6927 
631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 


• liFE AFTER fiNAlS 
Living in an imperfect world 
It is the saddest truth of them all, one which no seminar or lecture, even Dr. Morris' ones, can overturn: God exists, yet evil is alive and well on Earth. 
I received an unpleasant re­minder of that recently when I read an article in the New York Times Magazine about people visiting the Holocaust Museum in Washington, 
D.C. Writer Philip Gourevitch talked not the only example of innocent people being abandoned to the forces of injustice and hatred. From Sarajevo to Rwanda to the mean streets of Chicago and New York, the world is filled with cruelty and pain. 
And it's easy to conclude some­times that God isn't doing anything about it. After all, any theology pro­fessor worth his/her salt will tell 
with the visi-===============you that God is an 
tors and asked them the ques­tion that 
has Paul 

been asked constantly for the last 

fifty Pearson 

years: Where was God during the Holocaust? 
The most interesting answers came from a group of schoolchildren. One of them gave this response: "They didn't pray." When the fourth and fifth grade students were informed that many of them did pray, right up until their dying breaths, one of them said "Then they weren't believing." 
Now, anyone who's paying atten­tion knows that this is not true. God did not pick out his "chosen race" for punishment at the hands of a power-mad dictator. In fact, many Catholics and Protestants who voiced objections to Nazi Germany's policies also met a gruesome end in the concentration camps. 
But still, the question remains: How could a just and loving God allow millions of people to die on tlwir knees, imitating Jesus as they ask "Eloi, eloi, lama sabachtani?' (l\1y God, my God, why have you abandoned me?) Wouldn't God have gotten more glory if he had rode in on a white horse, opened the gates of Auschwitz and turned Adolf Ilitler into so much bratwurst? 
llnfortunately, the Holocaust is o m n i p o t e n t , 
omniscient being. 
Surely God can 
do better than 
this, right? 
The problem 
may not be find­
ing a way for God 
to run the uni­
verse better, but a way for us to do ours better. 
If they have your ear long enough, those same theology professors will tell you about our most powerful and critical feature-a free will. We are created with the freedom to choose good or evil. God hopes that we'll choose good, but we have to make the choice ourselves. 
Perhaps the reason God allows us to see the evil around us is to moti­vate us to get involved. Once we are aware that others are hurting, it is easier for us to decide that some­thing needs to be done. 
I am not saying that everybody out there in the student body should leave chosen careers, become a nun (or monk) and spend the rest of his/her life on a desert island with lepers. And no, this is not a re­cruitment pitch for the Holy Cross Associates. (It is a worthy program, but our endorsement deal fell through when they refused to give me a signing bonus. Their loss.) 
But I am saying that everybody can do something, especially at this University, which, for all its faults, goes out of its way to help students help others. The Center for Social Concerns is overflowing with ser­vice opportunities. Alumni clubs are always looking for volunteers to help in projects like food drives and painting houses for the elderly. Just go to the Alumni Association office in the Main Building (up the main front steps, then to your right), and they can give you lots of ideas, as well as names and phone numbers. 

How does God deal with evil in the world? By giving us the power to do something about it. 
Paul Pearson, ND '93, is a former Observer news writer who currently works for a trilingual newspaper in Tampa, Florida. He can be reached through e-mail at"paulp74115@aol.com." 


Alumnus at odds with alma mater 
Dear Editor: 
I read with great sadness of the University's action to han GLND/SMC. I would have expected a more compassionate response to the needs of students who are already the victims of hateful. un-Christian condemnation by self-righteous ele­ments of our Church. 
Though I am not gay, I have family and good friends who are gay and lesbian, and it is increas­ingly clear to me that they are so by chance, not by choice, There is so much hate. and so little love, in this world that I have no stomach for the denunciation of two people who wish to love each other in a way which hurts no one. This is partic­ularly true when the people seek to integrate their love with their faith. 
'Official' church teaching disapproves of gay relationships. However, 'official' teaching is not the same as dogma, and we all know that the church bas 'officially' taught much error over the centuries. 
The University does not have to squash any stu­dent activity which may be at odds with the cur­rent official teaching. Tolerance of GLND/SMC would not constitute official approval of the views of the organization or its members. Similarly, l assume the University's welcome of presidents Reagan and Bush did not constitute official ap· proval of the vicious, punitive actions of their administrations which were in irreconcilable con­flict withthe Church's social teaching, including the preferential option for the poor. 
I have contributed to the University almost every year since my graduation. I have put a daughter through Notre Dame. It is with regret that I must advise the University that until it reverses its position regarding GLND/SMC, my conscience will not permit me to make further contributions. 
I hope the University will find a way to let the gay and lesbian students feel welcome at Notre Dame while they try, like the rest of us sinners. to reconcile all aspects of their humanity with their faith. 
JEREMY LANE 
Notre Dame '65 

• Quon; OF THE DAY
• i.hlONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
''"'::"nite to fail, but infinite r to venture." 
-Emily Dickinson 





;ACCENT
T11esday, March 7, 1995 page 9 
Generosity and equality: The American legacy of Lincoln 
NO Senior and Clay students explore legendary President's ideas 
Ry DAN CICHALSKI upholding freedom and equality," poetry of Douglass, an escaped slave it. Gregg left a lot of room for opinions." Accent Writer according to Behr. Many individuals who advocated the abolition of slavery For the last class this Friday, Behr will have continued promoting these ideas through political activism. bring Lincoln's legacy into the 1990s. 
T
he Tenth Edition of Merriam through their own life's work, and Discussions are also a major aspect of Behr and the class will look at Maya Webster's collegiate Dictionary among those who are celebrated in the the class. On the first day of class. Behr Angelou's poem "On The Pulse Of defines "legacy" as "something exhibit for their poetry, prose, speeches, and the students talked first about the Morning" from President Clinton's inau­transmitted by or received from an and music are Hobert Kennedy, Martin meaning of legacy and then discussed guration and then examine a video of <ancestor or predecessor or from the Luther King, Jr., Bob Dylan, Frederick the historical facts of Lincoln and his the exhibit in the Lincoln Memorial. past." but this is definitely one of those Douglass, and several presidents. life. In another class, the students were Finally, students will share some of their words whose meaning can be discussed In order to "get a sense of public separated into smaller groups to define own writing with each other, carrying and modified for each individual. school" for his senior thesis on educa­such words as justice, respect. goodwill, the Lincoln legacy into 1995 Indiana. 
For one day during each of the last tion reform in the United States, Behr equality, and freedom. The groups then There is no academic credit involved 
five weeks, Patrick O'Malley's eighth approached Mr. O'Malley about teaching presented their conclusions to the rest of in this project for Behr, who said, "I did his class about the legacy of Lincoln and the class. this for the experience and to teach ­the role it still plays today. O'Malley's Last week, Behr shared some of his them about the legacy of Lincoln. We've
HELPING HANDS personal approach to grade school own thoughts on Lincoln, including the learned a lot together." And in doing so, English, which has resulted in a class speech he delivered at the opening of the spirit of Abraham Lincoln and what which bears greater resemblance to a the exhibit of the Memorial, and set up he strived for continues today, making college English course than an eighth the final writing assignment for the Gregg Behr and Mr. O'Malley's eighth grade grammar class. was one reason class. Each student wrote about the grade English class at Clay Middle which led to Behr's selection of this ideas he or she has for continuing the School as much a part of Lincoln's lega­class. "He has them do more writing Lincoln legacy in his or her own lifetime. cy as Kennedy, King, Dylan, Angelou. rather than just book work," Behr ex­After reading the papers, Behr real­and Bono. plained. ized that the students "know and 
O'Malley and Behr decided that one learned more than they day a week was to be set aside for Behr were admitting to in f to present the students with the work of class," a revelation that President Lincoln. In the four classes made the temporary that he has taught thus far, Behr and classroom instructor
riire_i 

the students have learned together proud. 
through a multimedia presentation of Looking back on the grade English class at Clay Middle the Lincoln legacy. "I've always been four classes, O'Malley is School has been discussing what they interested in teaching," Behr said, "and also impressed with the 1hink "legacy" means in terms of the I used different methods to appeal to the results. "The class was llnited States' sixteenth president, students' interests." definitely interested in .\hraham Lincoln. In the third class two weeks ago, for the subject. They 
With the instruction of Notre Dame example, the students saw Marian learned a lot and really 'ii'Hior government major Gregg Behr, Anderson sing from the steps of the enjoyed it," he said. 1hr~ students at Clay have looked at Lincoln Memorial on Easter Sunday, "They are more aware I incoln. the impressions he made on his 1939, in front of 75,000 people. They of Lincoln and what he l'llntl~mporaries, and the impressions he also studied Heverend King's "I Have a did and that his legacy is r·ontinues to make today, 130 years after Dream" speech which King delivered to still alive. They also saw .John Wilkes Booth ended his life in a more than 200,000 gathered at the how King and others Washington, D.C. playhouse. Lincoln Memorial in August 1963, as come from that same 
IL could be said that Behr is Notre well as speeches by Robert Kennedy that mold." Dame's authority on Lincoln. Over the touched on the ideals Lincoln strived to O'Malley also noted r·oursn of live years he helped organize a promote. that his students now 111~rmanent exhibit which opened last The poetry of Langston Hughes, a have a better under­SPptember at the Lincoln Memorial in Kennedy contemporary, was presented standing of the word Washington. The exhibit. (open 8 a.m. to as well. Also. in an exercise of "stream "legacy," a term that he midnight) which is located in the muse­of consciousness writing," the class thought may previously nm housnd beneath the famous monu­wrote freely on their thoughts as they have been unclear to m,.nt, focuses on the legacy of Abraham listened to Dylan's timeless classic them. And after reading I ineoln and those people who have con­"Blowin' In The Wind" and U2's "MLK." some of the papers him­linuml that legacy into the 1990's. In previous weeks, the class used self, O'Malley felt that 
Lincoln's legacy is one of "generosity newspapers to study both nineteenth his students "didn't have 11 n d spirit, a conviction of morals century praise for Mr. Lincoln and the too much trouble writing 

.• THE YOUNG LINCOLN LEGACY 
Student excerpts reveal knowledge of Lincoln 
l 
~ 
I 
The following excerpts are from the final papers of Clay Middle School students participating in (;regg Hehr's writing program. Thanks to Mr. O'Malley and his students for sharing what they learned about Lincoln's legacy. 
Ryan G. 
Abraham Lincoln 

"Dear friends. we are gathered here today to nxpress our feelings toward friendship and peace toward our fellow human beings. We need to stop 1he violence and start the healing. We need to stop rlnstroying each other, and start helping each other 1o solve our problems non-violently. If we can do this togethnr. we can accomplish anything. I think that if we fren the slave, and make all people equal. then we can make our nation stronger and all around be a better nation. I think it would be great if little white boys and little black boys could play with each other and have fun. I wish that our nation would stop fighting against itself. This civil war is unbelievable beeaus(~ God created all of us equal, and there is no reason that one race of people. heeause of the color of their skin, have to work for another race of people against their will, and for 
, free. 1 think we need to end all this and go on." 
Essence Wright 
"What I hear is people trying to talk about peace and freedom, and I hear how people say that all peo­ple shall be treated equal. I hear the people talking about how it should be in 1995, but I don't see many people taking any action. 
I have learned in the past by reading books and watching movies that come out. Civil Rights leaders have been fighting for what they believe in. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., he spoke about freedom, equality and justice. He spoke that all people shall be treated the same no matter if they are black, white, red, yel­low or whatever color they are. They shouldn't be judged by their color; they should be judged by their actions and personality. 
Dr. King wasn't the only person who thought that; Robert Kennedy was another. He went through a lot back then trying to fight about equality. The ideal of freedom has traveled a long and hard road through the human history. He shows that this ideal is the strongest motive of human action -that it fortifies the human will in the face of adversity and face of ter­ror -and that the passion for equal rights for all is the ultimate weapon in the struggle for independence and human dignity. 
I will always remember what the great Civil Rights 
leaders tried to do for my freedom and my equality. I will try to pass on what they tried to do so we can always have our freedom and our equality." 
Jessica Sawicki 
"Everywhere you look people are putting each other down, and hurting each other physically and emo­tionally. To me that is definitely not showing respect." 
Abby McKee 
"I believe that we should not just celebrate this legacy on a given day (Lincoln's Birthday) or a given month (African-American History Month). We should celebrate it on every day, of every month, of every year." 
Karen McClain 
"Now we are appointed to take the responsibility for us, and to keep the dream alive. We must not let the dreams of so many other people die. If we don't do something, what will happen to our kids, our grand­children, and others years from now? We must con­tinue the dream." 
Megan Sulock 
"Today, with the 20th century drawing to a close, the country ' ... conceived in liberty and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal. ..' is still struggling with equality. 
I 
~ I 
I 

Tuesday, March 7, 1995 

p;~ge 10 The Observer • SPORTS 
•NFl

• NHl 
Colts lose last link to


Rangers rally over Ottawa 
Associated Press in the NHL. Graves in the slot. 
Balti01ore in Stark
Ottawa got an early jump on NEW YORK New York when Rangers de­Nordiques 6, Devils 3 By STEVE HERMAN round in 1991. 
Petr Nedved scored his first fenseman Alexander Associated Press Stark, a second-round draft :~oal in 15 games at 5:29 of the Karpovtsev fell down behind his Right wing Owen Nolan had pick by Baltimore in 1982, has third period as the New York own net. Senators left wing Bill the fifth three-goal game of his played his entire career with Rangers rallied from a 3-1 Huard then picked up the loose career as the Quebec Nordiques INDIANAPOLIS the Colts, who moved to dPficit to defeat the Ottawa puck and fed ex-Ranger Phil beat the New Jersey Devils 6-3 The Indianapolis Colts' last Indianapolis in 1984. Senators 4-3 Monday night. Bourque, who scored from just Monday night to move into first link with Baltimore is about to "In 13 years, this is the first 
Nedved picked up Jay Wells' outside the crease at 2:52 of the place in the NHL's overall be snapped. time I've had an opportunity to bouncing lead pass at the first period. standings. Rohn Stark, a four-time Pro shop the market," he said. "I Ottawa blue line, outraced New York's Brian Leetch The Nordiques, with a 15-4-3 Bowl punter and the only re­had a number of discussions SPnators defenseman Dennis evened the score at 14:34, cap­record, are one point ahead of maining holdover from the NFL with (general manager) Jim \'inl and beat goaltender Don ping an end-to-end rush with a the Pittsburgh Penguins, who team's Baltimore era, is an lrsay over the last year and a J1P:lllpre on a breakaway after 25-foot snapshot into the top aim for their third straight vic­unrestricted free agent. Neither half. It was pretty much un­fa king an initial shot. corner over Beaupre's glove. tory over Quebec this season he nor the Colts expect him derstood that's what I was go­
The goal was just the third of The goal was just the second when the teams meet Tuesday back for the 1995 season. ing to be doing. thP season for Nedved, who has of the season and the first in 12 night in Pittsburgh. "Maybe they did a good thing hPPn a major disappointment games for last season's Conn Quebec scored four second­"I've talked with Miami. (signing Gardocki), taking care
-sinre his ballyhooed off-season Smythe Trophy winner. period goals that broke open a was down there last week, of something they needed any­ll~'f(Uisition from the St. Louis But the Senators, who de­2-1 game. The loss prolonged scoping out the situation," way." Rlues for forward Esa Tikkanen feated the New York Islanders New Jersey's problems on the Stark said Monday. "At this Stark averaged 42.4 yards 
nnd defenseman Doug Lidster. 3-1 Sunday night in Ottawa, road, where they are 2-7-1. point, they're in the process of per punt last year, the second­
I lis only other goals this sea­built a 3-1 lead here on early Scott Young, Joe Sakic and putting together a contract worst season of his career. His s•m were late insurance scores second-period goals by Huard Mike Ricci scored the other offer." career average of 43.8 yards, in New York's 6-2 victory in and Alexei Yashin. goals for the Nordiques, who Stark said New Orleans, however, is fifth-best in NFL \1ndison Square Garden against First Huard stuffed a center­are 8-1-3 at the Colisee. Detroit, Chicago and Pittsburgh history. His best season was thP Senators on Jan. 30. He ing pass behind Healy at 1:10 Scoring for the Devils were de­have shown some interest, but 1985, when he led the league at srored 38 goals as a Vancouver for his first goal since Nov. 5, fenseman Scott Stevens, with the Dolphins seem the most 45.9 yards a punt and was 
r.n nuck in the 1992-93 season, 1993. his first goal of the season, Neal promising. It also would be a named to the Pro Bowl for the hut his emphasis on finesse has Then after Beaupre denied Broten and Bobby Holik. homecoming for the former All­first time. IH'Pn a liability since his trade Mark Messier on a 2-on-1 Nolan, without a goal in his American at Florida State. to the more physical Eastern shorthanded break with Leetch, previous four games, set the The Colts made their inten­"It's really not going to be Conference. the Senators countered with a tone early. He scored at 5:07, tions clear two weeks ago when that hard," he said of playing In recent games, Nedved has 2-on-1 in the opposite direc­beating defensemen Bruce they signed free agent Chris for a different team. "Ever hPPn benched, spotted on the tion, and Yashin converted Driver and Ken Daneyko to the Gardocki from the Chicago since free agency has been power play and shifted from Alexandre Daigle's pass for his puck before backhanding it be­Bears. around, a player on the same 
line to line in an attempt to lift team-leading 12th at 2:28. yond goaltender Martin Stark wasn't surprised. team for a long time has known !lim from his slump. He also The lead lasted less than Brodeur. "Bill Tobin decided he want­free agency would come and missed two games last week seven minutes, as Messier set The Devils, who had won 6-1 ed to make a move, apparently, the opportunity would be there. 
with a pulled abdominal strain. up Adam Graves and Brian against Florida last Saturday toward a younger player at my It's something I've had in the The Senators had lost all nine Noonan for two goals within a after a 7-2 rout against Boston position. That's something he's back of my mind the last couple 
games to the Rangers since 3:43 span. two days earlier, got the lone comfortable with," Stark said years. thf'ir re-entry into the league in Graves struck for his 11th at third-period goal, as Holik's of the Colts director of football "It's very unlikely now under thl' 1992-93 season and last de­5:25, as Messier held the puck shot from the corner deJected operations, the former Bears the current system that players f,•nted New York on Mar. 6, inside the zone, danced be­in off goaltender Jocelyn player personnel director who will play an extended time in 
1'l:l4 during their original stay tween two defenseman and fed Thibault. drafted Gardocki on the third one place," he continued. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. ar 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. 

Classifieds 

11111!!11!11 LOST WATCH 11111111111111111  NEED RIDE TO NORTH CAROLI­ MOVE OCI180/mo w/3 fem  Do you know any of these  To the guy in the green rollneck  
NOTICES  I lost my watch in O'shag on 2-16. It has a wide black band with a  NA FOR BREAK. PREFERRABL Y GREENSBORO/WINSTON SALEM  @ Turtle Creek, summer/95-96 273-6437  turkeys?? ADAMICKS  sweater who said hi to me in the Brare last Thurs. I need to talk to ul  
white face. The numbers on the  AREA  LISA McDONALD  PLEASE meet me @ 8pm Tues by  
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ SPRING BREAK MONEY  face are written in Cherokee. The designer's name is on the face ­ WILL HELP PAY FOR GAS AND TOLLS  FOR SALE  MKKENNEDY JERRY LAVIN  the room where THE meeting was held. Lv msg if u can't make it.  
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND  Call Matt at x3244  MEGHAN McGRIFF  
MON. -FRI. 11 :30-12:30  "Chad Smith". If you found this  MELISSA KOLSKI  DOYOU SMOKE  
NEXTTOINFO.DESKIN  watch. PLEASE consider returning  Female Roomate -Spring Smster  IBM386-25mhz,80Mb Hd,4 MB  CARMEN WALKER  CAMEL CIGARETTES?  
LaFORT.  it to me. It's very important to me.  96. House 7 min walk from  RAM.DOS 6.1,WIN  KAREN KAPUSNAK  IF SO. PLEASE CALL  
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  If you have seen this watch please  DeBartolo.Call Jeannnine @ 289­ 3.1 ,3.5"&5.25".Modem,soft­ JEANINE WYNTON  X2954  
call Nancy, 277-0655. REWARD.  9420  ware.$600 or best. Call Sean  CHARITY RIECK  
x0519 or x3790.  CRAIG PINZA  da bears.  
##########################  Found: A gold Bulova quartz watch  Job Opening  LARA WAL TEAS  
SELF DEFENSE WORKSHOP  in the 06 parking lot. Call Nicky at  Debate Coach  JEREMY "OTIS" DIXON  Need ride to West  
This Wed .. March 8 in the LaFun  x2851  Experience Necessary  Clarion Car Stereo-AM/FM/Cass  MOLLY McLAUGHLIN  Lafayette/Purdue 3/10, 3/11 or any­ 
Ballroom from 7p.m.-10p.m. Sell  Send Resume 302 La Fortune  Detachable Face; High Power;  KATE TELESCA  time during Break. Will help pay!  
Defense Instruction by Fran  Lost:  By March 10  CD Changer Ready; Top of the  JIM BOYLE  Emily 288-9612  
McCann of the P .E. Dept .. and  A blue Tl-81 calculator in the  Line; 1 yr old. $200. Call1-8817.  OFELIA SOBALVARRO  
FREE FOOD!!!  Nieuwland computer lab on Sunday  BRIAN ZELIZO  
BROUGHT TO YOU BY SUB  around 3pm. Please call Josh  Job Opening  Then come see them perform their  CONGRATULATIONS!!!!!!!!!  
###########################  X3214  Debate Coach  Brother wordprocessor for sale.  hearts out in the SOPHOMORE  
Experience Necessary  Separate monitor and 3.5" floppy  FOUR I!! 4 quick. fun one-acts  Larry. we've been waiting two and a  
FOUND -Baseball cap @ the  Send Resume  disk drive included. Best offer. Call  acted and sponsered by the class  half years for this and now it has  
$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS$$  Grotto on Fri. 3/3. Can be claimed  302 La Fortune  Jason at x1 852  of '97. March 6 and 7 at 8pm in  happened. Congratulations from  
Are you going to read those things  at 227 Cushing.  by March to  Lafortune Ballroom. 2$ donation  us all.  
again? I think not. 2323-2342  
Pandora's Bks NO Ave & Howard  Lost: A set of broomballteam pic­ WANTED: 1985-88 CHEVY BLAZ­ COMPUTER: Mac Classic II. 4mb  CONGRATULA TIONS!I!!I!!!  
tures. 7 or so identical prints plus a  ER OR GMC JIMMY. GOOD CON­ RAM, 80 mb HD. With Microsoft  JOINT MILITARY BLOOD DRIVE  
picture of 3 people in Arizona. In a  DITION. 272-9402.  Word 5.1. ClarisWorks, other soft­ Wednesday March 8  I need a ride 2 IOWA 4  
Pregnant men. live ammunition,  Kinko's bag or wrapper. Lost about  ware. Call 631-4533 or 273-6058.  All day in the Navy Ward Room of  break. PLEASE! Jim 4333  
burnt toast and biblical word  2 weeks ago. Great sentimental  NEED RIDE TO PENNSTATE OR  Pasquerilla Center  
gamesll!l Just SOME of the fun  value. Please call John at277­ NEAR FOR SPRING BREAK. GAS  Help support the Michiana area  AUDITIONS!  
that will be had at the grand 'ole  6493. Thanks!  TOLLS (JIM X2303)  For sale: Guess? watch. Case  trauma centers.  TONIGHT!  
SOHPOMORE FOUR  never opened. never used. Pearled  3 Male Roles Available  
4 one-act plays performed and  FREELANCE GRAPHIC ARTIST.  face, black leather band. Make an  9:30 p.m. March 7  
brought to you by the class of '97  FOUND: A LARGE SET OF KEYS  work at home -Cartoon back­ offer! 284-5311  Regina Hall Basement  
TONIGHT!!!!!!! Lafortune ballroom  WITH A CANADA KEYCHAIN AND  ground helpful-Call219-259-8822.  What effects does the sun have on  SMC Rm.16  
8pm 2$ donation is asked  A WALT DISNEY WORLD KEY CHAIN WITH THE NAME JIM AT  Ride to Chicago's Union Station on  [ TICKETS  your skin? Are tanning salons real­ly safe? Dr. Holly Harris will dis­ 1 Act Directed by Elizabeth Kernan.  
STEPAN AFTER THE TRACY  Fri.• Mar 10th. Will pay tolls, etc.  cuss these topics on 3/8 @ ?PM in  ?'s call 284-5234!  
CHAPMAN SHOW. THE KEYS  Mary 284-5470  • REM Ticket for Sale •  184 NSH. Please Come!  
ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAK­ ARE NOW AT THE LAFORTUNE  Kansas City -May 27  
FAST. 35 MIN TO N.D. SPECIAL "OBSERVER" RATE $50/$60.  INFORMATION DESK  FOR RENT  Best Offer-Christian x1181  so long and thanks for all the fish s.  Peach fuzz does not a sideburn make.  
FULL BREAKFAST. THE HOME­ LOST: A LONG BLACK  
SPUN COUNTRY INN. NAPPA­ WOMAN'S PERRY ELLIS COAT  BEAUTIFUL 4-bedroom house for  TICKET TO MINEAPOLIS FOR  HELP! Need a ride to DCNA  Like the blues or world music?  
~  NEE, 219-773-2034.  AT SR. BAR ON FRI. FEB. 10  rent. Prefer female roommates.  SPRING BREAK. DON'T MISS IT.  area for break. Call Dom x1513  WSND 88.9 FM is looking for radio  
ILOST & FOUND I  (FISHER-WALSH DANCE) PLEASE CALL CINDY AT 273-5399 WITH ANY INFO.­REWARD!I!II  $225 +util. Call Natalie 291-5466. HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAMPUS  INTERESTING! CALL 4-4887! PERSONAL  WE LOVE YOU. DITKA OH, YES, WE DO! WE LOVE YOU, DITKA  announcers for the '95-'96 school year. No experience necessary. For more information please call or leave a message for Susan at  
232-2595  1-7342.  
Somebody accidentally picked  FOUND: WOMAN'S RING IN  000 The Copy Shop 000  LOVE, ORCA  
up the wrong black sportcoat at  DEBARTOLO. CALL 4-2954 TO  LIVE IN A GOOD NEIGHBOR­ LaFortune Student Center  Kidde.  
the Grace/Fianner SYR last Fri.  IDENTIFY.  HOOD FURNISHED HOMES  WE'RE OPEN EARLY. LATE.  NEEDED--Ride to and from  Just a few thoughts: rolling, AAS  
My ID is in the inside pocket  NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT  & WEEKENDS FOR YOUR  Pensacola,FL or anywhere close  office. cliffs. and "I don"! mean to  
please return to Calvin Nelson 214 Grace 4-1598  WANTED  SCHOOL YEAR IDEAL FOR 3-8 STUDENTS 2773097  CONVENIENCE!!! Phone 631-COPY  for Spring Break. Will help with costs. Call MATT x3895_  bug ya!" -An lllinios Farmer  

----------~---------------~-----~~-~--­
Tuesday, March 7, 1995 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Wrestling -Attention NO wrestlers. Interested in reviv­ing wrestling here at Notre Dame. A group of students is trying to start a club on cam­pus. If you are interested plnase call Marcus or Andrew at 4-2230 and you will be sent details. 
Climbing Wall Schedule ­The climbing wall is now open for use. The hours are Sundays at 2:00-S:OOpm and Tuesdays and Thursdays from 7:00-10:00pm. The climbing wall is located in the Rockne ~Iemorial and anyone interest­ed in using it must complete an orientation session. For more info call RecSports at 1­6100. 
Challenge U Aerobics ­There will be no 4:00 pm Aerobics class on Friday, March 10. The regular sched­ule will resume on Monday, March 20. 
ND/SMC Sailing Club ­Attention sailors, we will be having an organizational meeting for the spring on Tuesday, March 21 at 7:00pm at the boathouse. Please come if interested. 
Hours
THE 
M-F 10-8
STYLE Sat 10-6 
Sun 12-4

CO. INC. 

"Alternative Clothing for Today's Women' THE STYLE CO., INC. NOW OPEN 
A unique shopping experience without the Grape Rd. hassle. 

• 
Over 40 styles of Hats 

• 
Vintage Levi's 

• 
Open evenings and Sundays 


• Alterations and layaway available 1912 S, 11th, Niles 687-9123 
"In the newly remodeled Belle Plaza" 

The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALl 



Duke coach feeling better 
By JIM O'CONNELL Associated Press 
DURHAM, N.C. 

Mike Krzyzewski was back in Cameron Indoor Stadium on Monday and there was no way to wipe the smile from his face. 
Sitting on a small stage at one end of the court that has seen so many exciting games in his 15 seasons at Duke, Krzyzewski held a news conference to let everybody know he's OK as he continues to recover from back surgery and that he'll be back on the sidelines next season. 
"I missed coaching and it's really good to be back in this building," he told a group of 80 reporters sitting on the floor and 30 or so fans and students who were sitting in the upper 
level. "I am very impressed with how many people are here. 
''I'm embarrassed a little to do this news conference be­cause I don't have any earth­shaking news. I don't want to be a hot ticket. I just want to coach basketball." 
He won't do that this week at the Atlantic Coast Conference tournament because he won't even be in Greensboro for it. He will meet with the team Monday and plans to take part in practice Tuesday, but that's it -doctors' orders. 
The last time Krzyzewski coached the Blue Devils was Feb. 4. He had undergone surgery for a ruptured disc in his back on Oct. 21 and rushed 
SURV Benefit for YWCA 
at 


Dalloways 

on March 8th Featuring George and the Freeks 
8:00 p.m.-12:00 p.m. 

Bring Clothes and Canned Food 



Be the one 
who brings the fun 
to Notre Dame. 
Bring the best speakers, the funniest comedians and the most popular entertainers to campus ... and get paid for it. 
Three positions for programming assistants 
are available for 1995-1996 to students with leadership ability and creative ideas who want to improve student life by planning campus-wide events. 
Pick up an application in the Student Activities Office {315 LaFortune) and return it by Friday, March lOth. 
Interviews will be conducted March 23rd and March 24th so sign up for an interview 
when you turn in your application. 
Questions? Call Gayle Spencer at 631-7308 

back to work, something that led to exhaustion and finally forced him from the coaching the rest of the season at the school he had led to seven Final Fours in the last nine years and national championships in 1991 and 1992. 
His left leg collapsed during a test for his back and that led to the surgery, something he did­n't want to have during the sea­son. Then came the exhaustion and Krzyzewski, 48, admitted he was scared. 
"I was very scared," he said. "1 had never in my life not been able to just go at something but I was just so exhausted. I just didn't have any energy. You just can't go but you really want to. I was scared because I couldn't believe it was just a back. It just had to be some­thing else." 
Krzyzewski underwent batteries of tests and received a clean bill of health and a deci­sion was finally reached that he had to concentrate solely on rehabilitating his back. And that meant total test and cut­ting ttes with his team. 
He addressed the many ru­mors that floated during hi,.<; absence, the main ones being a much more serious illness or burnout. 
"Like David Letterman, I have a top 10 list of rumors," Krzyzewski said laughing. "Rumors are part of the game and can be kind of funny. 

L 0 Thanks You for 5 Great Years! C)Pt:N l10UcSt: 
MBrch 12. 1995 
2:00 p.m. -5:00 p.m. 0 t" Come ex~rience the 
0 v ~ A veda ConcepU1357 N Ironwood DC?monslf'BUons include: 6~ 
· . ood Qeltef. 6ktn CBre, AromB Thempy.
(Corner of Edtron ~ Ironw ) HBir CBre/6lylifl8. MBke-up, NBil
234-67 6 7 
CBre, Peaicures 
Qef~hmenL!l • Prcx:lucl Di;~counts llr Coupons No Re.servaUons Needed! 
For those unable to join us at the open house, use this ad as a coupon:
AVEDA· 
1114!To\NII":Il!U 

10% off any A11eda product, Stress Relief, or Pedicure 
<fl\ili.MJ-I.N(I1\PiTl\'OlNt:t'l 
IWr c..•Sid• c..'c.loorc-w. 

expires April 28, 1995 

Students $Earn some extra cash$ 
$2o.oo 
Bring Student I.D. 
To: American Biomedical CTR 
515 Lincolnway West-south Bend 
Help save a Life 
Hours: M-F: 9-6 Sat: 8-5 

234-6010 
Bring this Coupon 


18 yrs. old, bring I.D. with Proof of current address. 
-~ 
I 
I I I 
I I I 
I I 
-
, 

I 
I 
I 
I I 
' I 
I 
, I 

~----~--~-------~---.. -~--­
The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, March 7, 1995 
• STRIKE 
Negotiations put on hold again 
Ry RONALD BLUM 
A"ociated Press 
PALM BEACH, Fla. 

A day after the both sides walked away from negotiations, haseball owners prepared Monday for their quarterly meetings and union officials returned to their office in New York. 
No negotiations are scheduled this week, when the strike com­piPtes it seventh month. The sides had set a March 5 dead­line for an agreement that would allow the season to start as scheduled with major lea­
-g-nflrs, but at least one owner thought next weekend was the real deadline. "I don't see how we can go beyond Monday and still be ready for the opener," Philadelphia Phillies president Hill Giles said in Clearwater. "I do have a hunch that the union leaders are waiting to see what happens at the owners' meet­ing.... I guess hoping that some of the owners will say, 'Let's mil ke a deal. whatever it is.' I don't think that's going to hap­pPn." Last Thursday, acting com­ndssioner Bud Selig threatened to turn negotiations over to Cliir.ago White Sox chairman l•'rry Reinsdorf and lawyer 
t:..hert Ballow, who supposedly would pursue an even harder line against the players. RPinsdorf dismissed that notion Monday during an interview with ESPN. 
"I assume negotiations will stnrt up again after our meet­ings in Florida," Reinsdorf said. "J certainly don't think there's 1-{oing to be any change. I have 100 percent confidence in our JWnple and I know Bud Selig docs." 
'Selig was to arrive in Palm fl;'ach on Tuesday and stay at tlw same resort where owners arP meeting. Union officials last week thought about comifl~ to Florida for possible talks, but on Sunday decided against the move. 
Fehr, speaking from New York, said the union wasn't at fault for the breakoff in nego­tiations. 
"We haven't been accused of breaking the law twice," he said. "They have and they're about to be a third time." 
He was referring to the 

• 
Nationally Recognized for Academic Excellence 

• 
Five SummerSessions, Day/Evening Classes 

• 
Wide Course Selection 

• 
Small Classes 

• 
Relaxed Atmosphere 


For more information plus a'95 Summer Sessions Bulletin, call (402) 280-2424ortoll free 
1-800-637-4279. 

2500 California Plaza 
Omaha, NE 68178 


674· 7000 or 1·800·833·5555 
or consult your travel agent 
Your Connection To 
O'HARE 
and 
MIDWAY 



Holyn Lord continues to impress her coaches and her opponents, tak­ing both of her singles matches last weekend. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~: 


CHEERLEADER & : LEPRECHAUN • 
Tryout Information Meeting 
All serious candidates must attend this meeting! 
6:00P.M. • MARCH 7, 1995 JACC Football Auditorium For more information, call 631-8103 
Split 

continued from page 16 
so that was definitely a great 
win., 

Against the Wolverines, the Irish clinched the match after the singles portion on the strength of the experienced Laura Schwab and Wendy Crabtree. 
Captain Schwab, the team's only senior, won a gritty 7-5, 4­6, 7-5 #3 match over Sora Moon, while Crabtree outlasted Sarah Cyganiak, 4-6, 6-2, 6-3 in first singles. 
"We were very focused on this match," Crabtree observed. "They are a regional team who beat us last year 5-4." 
For Crabtree, this win contin­ued a recent comeback after a rough stretch of tennis. 
"I think this weekend defi­nitely went better personally," said Crabtree, who boasts a national ranking of 26th. "I was a lot more aggressive, at­tacking a little more and putting away some shots. Earlier in the year, I was tenta­tive, almost afraid of losing." 
That fear was absent again on Sunday, as the All-American defeated a fellow ranked oppo­nent, Demon Deacon Terry Ann Zawacki in relatively easy fash­ion, 6-4, 6-2. 
"Wendy's back," Loudeback noted. "She showed a lot of confidence attacking the net and she served a lot better." 
Unfortunately, Crabtree's success wasn't shared by her teammates, as the Irish could­n't muster a win in the bottom half of the singles draw. 
Still, bright spots other than Crabtree were apparent. 
Most notably, Holyn Lord continues to impress, as she took both of her singles mateh­es. Her play provides the Irish with a potent 1-2 combination and a great no. 1 doubles pair. 
"Holyn just doesn't lose very often." Louderback noted. 
National Labor Relations Board, which issued a unfair labor practice complaint against owners in December and was about to issue another last month before management rescinded the salary cap. 
The NLRB is expected to issue another complaint against own­ers this week for failing to restore the old work rules, such as salary arbitration. 
The Department of Music 
'facufty Ylrtist Series presents 
Craig Cramer 
organ Continuing his series of: '!he Complete Organ Works of Johann Sebastian cBach 


Including the Trio Sonata VI 
8:00p.m. Wednesday, March 8,1995 Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

There's Only One Place to be This Summer­• Creighton University 
.... 

Tuesday, March 7, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• PROFESSIONAl TENNIS

Tennis 
continued from page 16 
Evert Cup upset
tandems of Sprouse and Pun, Associated Press takes. I know she's tough." Pietrowski and Flanigain, and Fernandez, 23, who won thisSimme and O'Brien were victo­
INDIAN WELLS, Calif. 

tournament in 1993, kept herrious. 
Eighth-seeded Mary Joe 

mistakes to a minimum in the
On Sunday, Zumph and Fernandez used a consistent 
1-hour, 24-minute match. SheCrowley of Iowa edged Sprouse 
serve and steady ground 

has now beaten Zvereva in all
and Pun 9-8, Flanigan and 
strokes to defeat No. 4 Natasha 

five matches the two have
Pietrowski defeated Ekstrand Zvereva 6-4, 6-3 Monday in the played against each other. and Johnston 8-4, and Simme rain-delayed singles champi­
"I got some points on my
and O'Brien beat Derouin and onship match of the $430,000 
serve at the right time,"
Todd Nelson 8-4. Evert Cup. Fernandez said. Bayliss was happy with the In the doubles final, the sec­"I think that one day of rest
doubles play, and has been ond-seeded team of Lindsay 
was good for both of us. Todayparticularly pleased with the Davenport and Lisa Raymond was a beautiful day, I couldn't combination of Flanigan and rallied for a 2-6, 6-4, 6-3 vic­ask for better conditions."Pietrowski. 
tory over top seeds Arantxa There were seven service

Number fifteen Notre Dame Sanchez Vicario of Spain and breaks in the match -live by(7-5), will fly to Miami this Larisa Neiland of Latvia. Fernandez, including the final
wnekend for the matchup The matches were delayed 
game.
against tho Hurricanes next 
for 4 1/2 hours Sunday before 

"My control over the balls
Monday. It will be the first out­being rescheduled. wasn't that great today," saiddoor match of the season for 
The weather was ideal 

Zvereva, who earned $39,500.tiHl Irish. 
Monday and Fernandez, who 

"I just didn't have it today. IOf the transition to outdoor 
lost only one set during the 

started well, but then I got very tPnnis, Bayliss noted, "It's the tournament at the Hyatt Grand sluggish. I think waiting around toughest adjustment you have Champions Resort, was at the yesterday didn't help. to make in college tennis, but top of her game. "She played very well. I wasonce you get used to it, it is not 
"I thought it was a pretty 

so excited to be in the finals. Ita factor." good match," said Fernandez, takes a whole lot of me to get toThe Irish will proceed to play who earned $79,000. "I knew the finals, and when you getfour top twenty teams in live she would attack and come in. I there, you still have to play amatches in a five day period didn't want to make any mis-top player." 
over spring break. 
The Observer 
Viewpoint is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Assistant Viewpoint Editor Copy Editor 
Please submit a resume and personal statement by Thursday, March 9, at 5 p.m.. For more info call Michael O'Hara at 1-4541 or 4-3597. 
ATTENTION 
MELROSE FANS! 
The Senior Week '95 Committee is looking for videotapes of Melrose Place episodes. A huge reward will be given to the one who can supply us with these classic tapes. 
Please call Katie Dunn at 
287-7383 

or Matt Bosse at 
232-6569 

• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 
Rockies' coach Don Zimmer recuperating 
By JOHN MOSSMAN 
Associated Press 

TUCSON, Ariz. 
Colorado Rockies coach Don Zimmer made satisfactory progress Monday in his recov­ery from a temporary loss of blood flow to the brain two days earlier. 
Zimmer, 64, remained in in­tensive care at St. Mary's Hospital here, but doctors were considering moving him out of that unit into a regular room. 
"He's doing well," Rockies trainer Dave Cilladi said Monday. "Everything continues to improve. There has been no lasting effect from what hap­pened Saturday night." 
Zimmer suffered what Cilladi called a transient ischemic at­tack at about 6 p.m. Saturday as the team bus was entering the Tucson area after an exhibition game in Scottsdale earlier in the day. Cilladi ordered the bus diverted to the hospital. 
Zimmer, examined by a neu­rologist and an internist, was given medication to lower his blood pressure. 
While emphasizing that Zimmer did not suffer a stroke, Cilladi said the coach experi­enced numbness in his left arm, a burning sensation in his face and had difficulty speaking. The symptoms subsided, then recurred. 
"The doctors are not 100 per­cent sure what caused it," Cilladi said. "Zim has had high blood pressure, and that is a contributing factor to T.I.A. 
"We have not been able to do all the tests we'd like because of Zim's medical history and the head injuries." 
Zimmer still has metal but­tons in his skull, the result of a beaning in his playing days. 
Cilladi wouldn't speculate on when Zimmer might be able to return to coaching. 
"We're dealing with two sides of this, the medical side and the personal side," he said. 
PERSONAL ASSISTANT 
PRESIDENT OF GROWING COMPANY SEEKING AN ENERGETIC, CHRISTIAN INDIVIDUAL FOR FULL TIME POSITION OF PERSONAL ASSISTANT. INDIVIDUAL SHOULD HAVE DEGREE OR EQUIVALENT EXPERIENCE IN THE FOLLOWING AREAS: 
*LIBRARY SCIENCE *PHYSICAL FITNESS *VEGETARIAN COOKING 
SALARY IS NEGOTIABLE. PLEASE SEND YOUR RESUME TO 
D.W. WALLCOVERING 514 W. MILL STREET (18TH RD.) 
CULVER, INDIANA 46511 ATT: CHRISTINA BALABAN 
UPCOMING EVENTS 
THURSDAY, MARCH 9, 1995 
CHARLES WILLIE 
HARVARD UNIVERSilY 
CONTROLLED CHOICE: ANEW 
APPROACH TO ACHIEVING EQVIlY 
AND EXCELLENCE IN SCHOOL 
DESEGREGATION 
4:15P.M. ROOM 124 CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Charles V. Willie is Professor of Education ond Urban Studies ot the Graduate School of 
Education, Harvard University. Allthor of more than 25 mo~r publications, Or. Willie is 
also on active op~ied sociologist. Acourl1lppointed master' in the Boston deseyregtt 
hon case, he is olso oFellow of the American Sociological Associotion, aformer boord 
member of the Social Science Research CouncH, ond served on President Corter's 
Commission on Mentol Health. His areas of research interest include desegregation, 
education, race relations, urbon problems ond the fomi~. Or. Willie rO{eived oPh.D. 
in sociology from Syracuse Univer~ty. 
FUTURE SPEAKERS IN THIS SERIES WILL BE: 
Charles Willie, March 9, 4:15p.m., Room 124 CSC 
Benjamin Barber. March 23, 7 p.m., Auditorium, CCE 
Vanessa Walker, March 30, 4:15p.m., Room 124 CSC 
Barbara Schneider, AprilS, 4:15p.m., Room 124, CSC 
Anthony Bryk, April1 Oth, 4:15 p.m., Room 124, CSC 

-----------~---~~­
I ­
I 
I I 
page 14 
• BOXING 
'Real Deal' is back 
By ED SCHUYLER JR story can I tell?" 1\~mciated Press "Evander Holyfield is invited to apply for a license in the 
NEW YORK 

state of New York," said Larry
Evander Holyfield knows 
Hazzard, New Jersey State 
there will be a certain circus 
Athletic Commissioner. "We 
atmosphere at his next fight, a 
see no reason he can't get a li­
fight it appeared he'd never 
cense." 

have. 
Hazzard said his medical peo­
The former two-time heavy­
ple have consulted with med­
weight champion was asked if 
ical people representing the 
he thought a lot of people 
Nevada State Athletic 
would watch his May 20 match 
Commission and physicians at 
against Ray Mercer just to see 
the Mayo Clinic. 

if something might happen to 
Mike O'Hara, a spokesman
him. 
for the Mayo Clinic at 
Following his WBA-IBF title 
Rochester, Minn., said last Nov. 
loss on points to Michael 
23 that a battery of tests 
Moorer last April 22 at Las 
showed Holyfield to "be in ex­
Vegas, Holyfield was diagnosed 
cellent health. We have put no 
as having a heart condition. 
restrictions on his activities." 
"I want to make myself per­
The medical advisory board 
form to show people I'm 
of the Nevada commission 
healed," Holyfield said Monday 
cleared Holyfield, and on Feb. 
at a news conference to for­
24, by a 4-1 vote, the commis­
mally announce the fight at the 
sion lifted the medical suspen­
Atlantic City Convention Center. 
sion imposed on Holyfield. It,
"There are people out there 
however, did not vote to license 
who can be healed." 
Holyfield.

Promoter Dan Duva said 
Hazzard said Holyfield would 
Holyfield was coming back be­
be required to pass a standard 
cause he wanted to join 
physical examination when he 
Muhammad Ali as the only man 
applies for a New Jersey license 
to become a heavyweight 
and also would be required to 
champion three times. 
pass a standard pre-fight phys­
The 32-year-old Holyfield, 
ical. 

however, puts things in perp­
"The Lord is moving and 
sective by saying, "One reason I 
working in my life." 

want to come back is I know I 
"This is like a title fight for 
don't have a health problem 
me," said Mercer, who lost a 
and I was cleared by the doc­
chance for a title shot by losing 
tors. I'm not very anxious to get 
to Larry Holmes on Feb. 7,
back into the ring, but it is to 
1992, and then lost another ti­
let my light shine, to show what 
tle bid by losing to Jesse 
the Lord has done for me. 
Fergson on Feb. 6, 1993. 

"I am healed, what better 

GET INVOLVED! BE PART OF PLANNING 
VOlll lR JJ rPW~ 
APPLY FOR A POSITION ON THE 
1996JPW EXECUTIVE COMM11TEE! 

DON'T MISS OUT! 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE ATTHE LAFORTUNE INFO DESK. APPLICATIONS ARE DUE IN 315 LAFORTUNE BY 5:00P.M. ON 
.... 
VARSITY SHOP 
• Baseball
...-r 
• 
Cross Country 

• 
Fencing 

• 
Golf 

• 
Lacrosse 

• 
Soccer 

• 
Softball 


• s~hnrning 
• 
Tennis 

• 
Track & Field 

• 
Volleyball 





Win Great Prizes: 
·Get away weekend from • 2 6-month premier memberships from "Let's Talk Travel" from "Pinnacle Mega Club" 
·70's CD collection from "DISC-GO-ROUND" 
MARCH 23 OHIO STATE 3:00p.m. 30 BOWLING GREEN 3:00p.m. APRIL 
8  WISC.-GREEN BAY  1:00 p.m.  
9  LOYOLA  1:00 p.m.  
12  WESTERN MICHIGAN  3:00p.m.  
21  LA SALLE  3:30p.m.  
22  CLEVELAND STATE  1:00 p.m.  
29  INDIANA  12:00 p.m.  
MAY  
4  NORTHWESTERN  3:00p.m.  
6  DETROIT  1:00 p.m.  

ALL HOME GAMES at IVY FIELD-
across from Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
~ ... -"": --..... ---... ---..... -.. ---........ -.......................... . ·' 
......... ····-·-····-~--~---~--------------~-------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, March 7, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
MIRRORlAND HUY NGOC PHAN CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 
HYTH :ONLY siLVeR.

TH~ Wf.Rl.WOI.f: Mlf'TkJ 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
ToDt-.i fOR 'S\-\OW AN\l \ELL," 1 REF\JS£ TO 51-\0W '(OIJ W\1f..T l BRClUG\-\T A~~ l Rt.f\JSE. TCl"'Hl. '(CAJ 
~nIT.' 
DILBERT 
WE NEED TO FINISH YOUR PROGRAM TWICE AS FAST1 SO 'I'M ADDING A PERSON 
TO HELP ~OU. 
CROSSWORD 
&;~.5 U.N Kil.L HiM 
ITS f>.. tv\~SiER~ n\~1 WILl 
111\IJI{\ '(o\J ALL ~OIJR MI''HAB\I l\'JE'S! iO\J'LL NE'iER, £'(£/? ICI'\OW 'tl\\~T l BRO\JGI{I! '(oiJ CAt-\ BEG 1\~\l I'Ltt>-\l, B\JT l'll. NE'iEcR EN.tl '{()'JR ToRME1-I.T! 
"'0 
0 
.... 
~ 
; 
~ 
... 
... 
0 
0 
;; E 
,;, 

z
YOU 1'\IGI-\T NE.£0 
TO TF\AI N HII"\ "' LITTLE BE.FORE HE'S PRODUCTIVE.. 
"' 1======\====::::;l::=~~rr==t 

ACROSS 34 Criminal charge 66 "Life is a bowl of 37 City on the cherries," e.g. 
1 Blvd. crossers Mosel 68 White winter 
4 #2, informally 38 Razor coat 
8 Defeater of sharpener 69Primary Hannibal at 
39 Help in the 70 More than none Zama 
getaway 71 Clears of 14 Pasture hidden
41 Architectural 15 Shakespearean piers problems villain 72 Rival rival 
43 Location 1& Chaucer's --73 Born
44 Catcalls Inn 
46 Mollo and 17 Civil war, e.g. Magnani 
DOWN 

19 List ender 48ln low spirits 1 Neatniks' 
20 Mr. Rathbone 49 Fe, fi, fo, fum, opposites21 Dour e.g. 
2 Ross Perot, e.g. 

23 Chicago-to­52 Willing 3 Final authority Atlanta dir. 53 Swimwear 4 Cataclysmic 
manufacturer 5 Attention 24 Slept "soundly" 

57 Perform &Sometimes26 "Hud" Oscar 

winner Patricia 60 Pole figure they're super 28 Snap, crackle 63 Be unfaithful to 
7-I'Eveque

and pop, e.g. 64 "Calm down!" 
(French cheese) 8 Not monaural 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
9 Dozes 
1001ympic basketball coach Hank 
11 Buddies 
goddess 13 Garfield's foil 18 Spanish Surrealist 22 One in the running 25"Dumb-" 
(o I d comic) 27 Plenty 29 Mosque feature 30 Big name in 
insurance 




LEARN RElAXATION TECHNIQUES BEFORE FINALS! TRY YOGA Classes run Wednesdays, March 22-April 26 6:15-7:30 Loftus 114 
..

$15 
A 
Sign-up at RecSports today! 

I'LL CARR'{ tv\'( St.cRH TO 11\E GRA'IE! ITS T\\E 'S\-1oW A~D TELL T\-\t>.T WI\S N.E.\IER SI-\OWN OR TOLD.' \-If>. 11r.. \l~! 
1\11 W.. H~ HI>. HI>. ! 
-, 


0 
> 

31 Goddess of discord 32 Least bit 33 Mimicked 34lndian prince 35 Victim of sibling rivalry 
36 Sir Robert of London's bobbies 

40 Advanced math 42"Jene­quoi" 45Averring 
47 Elsa in 

• 
OF INTEREST 

•"The 
Role of International Courts in the Control of Violence" will be the subject of a lecture by Lori Fisler· Da.mroscb to be held at 4:15p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 

•The 
Sophomore Four, four one-act plays peformed and directed by the class of 1997, will be run tonight at 8 


p.m: in LaFortune Ballroom. A $2 donation -iS" asked. This is brought to you by the Sophomore Class. 
''[)!(_:' 
•MENU 

Notre Dame 
NORTH 

Grilled Cheese 
Turkey Steak 
Chocolate Fantasy Cake 
Saint Mary's 
For information call 284·4500 
SOUTH 
Chicken Romano Broiled Chlcken Peach Pie 
Wanted: 
Reporters~ 
photographers and editors. 
57 Scored a 

"Lohengrin" hole-in-one 50 Overacts 58 Inner workings 51-tide 59 Grave 
Join
54 Wharton's 61 Poet Lazarus Frome 62 More than a 55 Lorna of an snack 1869 romance 65 N.Y. school 
•
The Observer
56 Deli phrase 67 Waitress's bit 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
staff.
5656 (7~ each minute). 

DIET, FOOD & WEIGHT LOSS Does it all seem confusing? Ifso, please join us for an informative workshop focusing on the psychological aspects ofweight loss. Mark Mikel, a senior counselor at Linden Vale, will present information on redefining beliefs about food and eating habits. All are welcome on March 22, 12:15-1:00, Notre Dame Ro~m in LaFortune 

.! 
~ 
,...-----------­
page 16 Tuesday, March 7, 1995 
~~--------~ 

SPORTS 
• TENNIS 

Tennis teams too much for Big Ten 
Irish dominate with 7-0 victories over 1/lini, Buckeyes 
By B.]. HOOD Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team posted a pair of shutout victories this weekend. 
"It's the best weekend we've had all year," said coach Bob Bayliss. "These were two good Big Ten teams, and we took control from the outset, which I was happy to see." 
Just because the scores were 7-0, that does not mean all the matches were easy. Irish junior Jason Pun battled back from a 3-6, 5-2 deficit to defeat Illinois' Chris Devore at number three singles showing Bayliss "great courage." 
Ryan Simme had a great weekend at number one singles defeating two aggressive players. On Saturday, he defeated Jeremy Sutter 6-3, 6­
4. and topped Iowa's Bryan Crowley 6-2, 6-2 on Sunday. 


Mike Sprouse also had a strong weekend at number two singles. He defeated Jerry Turek of the Illini 6-2, 2-6, 6-4, and his opponent from Iowa, Bob Zumph, retired at 0-1. 
Jakub Pietrowski defeated Dave Manpearl of lllinois 6-4, 4-6, 7-5 at number four singles. On Sunday, Pietrowski moved up to number three singles and beat Tom Derouin 6-3, 7-5. 
Steve Flanigan defeated Brady Blain 6-2, 6-2 at number live singles on Saturday, and topped Marcus Ekstrand 6-2, 3-6, 6-3 at number four singles against the Hawkeyes. Flanigan is 8-2 in singles competition this year. 
Ron Mencias, now the winner of four straight, defeated Illinois' Drew Parker 6-4, 6-2, and Iowa's Ryan Johnstone 7-6, 6-1. 
John Jay O'Brien had his first match after knee injury over the weekend. He defeated Mattias Jonsson of Iowa 6-3, 6-0 at number five singles. 
In doubles competition against the Illini, the 
see TENNIS I page 13 



Teams have impressive showing at regionals 
By JOE VILLINSKI 
Sports Writer 
I If there is anything that de­i • 
fines the 
,----=-----, Notre Dame fencing squad, it is the fact that they are a 
I ' 
' tPam. As the Irishl traveled to l t \ppleton, 
' Wisconsin last weekend, how­,.,·er, they were forced to leave lu,hind a part of that team. 
The Midwest Regional! nu alifiers only allowed three l"o•ncers to compete in each
f 
weapon due to the budgetary restrictions of the NCAA. 
Despite this, the nucleus of the team put nine out of a pos­sible ten fencers on a list to be recommended to the NCAA as the qualifiers from the midwest region along with a possible at­large bid. 
The individual format of the tournament was not drawing much praise from the partici­pants. 
"I definitely don't feel that the change the NCAA made is a change for the better," foil cap­tain Stan Brunner said. 
At Appleton, foil captain Maria Panyi won the gold 
f .. 
SOFTBALL GOES 2-1 

f 
The Irish got drenched in Texas, but came away with two Terry Kobata victories. SEE PAGE 14 
Team earns 1-1 record over weekend 
By TIM SHERMAN Assistant Sports Editor 
There are two ways to look at the season of the Notre Dame women's tennis team thus far. 
For the casual observer, a quick glance at the less-than­spectacular 6-6 record might be enough to pass judgment. 
However, there are others who know there is more to a season than a .500 mark. They look at the level of com­petition and beyond just the win-loss columns. 
These are the type of peo­ple who serve on NCAA tournament selection com­
mittees and are the ones who should be fairly impressed with the play of the Irish. 
This past weekend, coach Jay Louderback's club contin­ued their pattern of win one­lose one, as the Irish snuck past regional rival Michigan on Friday 5-4. and then dropped a 5-2 decision to Wake Forest. 
Again. the level of play belied the outcome. 
"I thought we played well in both matches," Louderback said. "Wake Forest is a very tough team but we hung in there. As for Michigan, they beat us last year and returned everybody, 
see SPLIT I page 12 

medal as she rose to the top among the cream of the crop of midwestern women foilists. Monica Wagner finished sev­enth and Mindi Kalogera was tenth, but still hopes to claim an at-large berth. 
"Mindi has a good shot at making it because she was there last year and only lost 17 bouts this season," DeCicco added. 
In women's epee, Claudette de Bruin placed second, while sophomore Colleen Smerek was fifth in her first ever individual competition. Another sopho­more, Anne Hoos only finished two behind in seventh. 
Jeremy Siek and Conor Power will represent the men's foil squad at the championships as the two met in the gold medal match with Siek prevailing. Brunner will also be recom­mended to the NCAA as an al­ternate after he finished sev­enth at the regional. 
Sophomore Bill Lester will be on the list of midwest qualifiers after posting a second place fin­ish on the weekend in sabre. Joining him will be captain Chris Hajnik who finished sev­enth at Appleton, but will be the fifth fencer out of six to be recommended to the commit­tee. Senior Chris McQuade was also 17th. 
The men's epee team enjoyed the most success Saturday as freshmen Carl Jackson and Brian Stone finished second and sixth, while Patel wound up in between them with a third place showing. Jackson and Patel will be representing the Irish at the championships, while Stone will look to be an alternate. 
As spring break nears, the Irish now have three weeks to prepare for the NCAA Championships which will be hosted at Notre Dame. If this weekend was a telltale sign of events to come, the Irish will be a serious threat to repeat as champions. 
of note... 
Notre Dame 


See tomorrow's Observer for 
><>.~-· 
Softball 

coverage of the Notre Dame swim teams. 






