
Thursday, August 24, 1995• Vol. XXVII No. 4 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Center to improve teaching 
West Quad move saves $1 million 
By DAVE lYLER News Editor 
Notre Dame expects to save over $1 million by completing the construction of West Quad's dormitories now and by speeding up the timetable for conversion of Flanner, Knott, and Siegfried Halls, Bill Kirk assistant vice-president for stu­dent affairs told The Observer yesterday. 
Oflicials for the architectural firms and the general contrac­tors handling the West Quad project advised University offi­cials that five percent of the project's total cost could be saved by finishing all four dor­mitories at once. Under current estimates, Kirk said, that would mean at least $1 million the University could avoid spending. 
"Given factors such as infla­tion and the costs of starting 
see FLANNF.R I page 6 


Dome to remain under scaffolding 
Exterior renovation planned to last through August 1996 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST Associate News Editor 
If the sight of scaffolding around the Main Building disrupts your view of the Golden Dome, get used to it, because the support structures will be around for a while. 
Since May 1, workers have been cleaning the 
4.3 million bricks of the Main Building and preparing to replace the windows and roof as part of an ongoing exterior renovation that is expected to last until August 1996. 
Mike Smith, director of facilities engineering, says the renovation is moving along smoothly. "We haven't had any problems," he said. "Everything is going very well." 
The renovation, which is costing around $5 million, will also include minor electrical and mechanical modifications and a cleaning of the base of the statue of Mary on the top of the dome. 
The dome itself will not be renovated. It was regilded in a previous project in 1988 at a cost of $300,000. 
Cleaning the bricks of the building is a task The Observer/David Murphy that requires care, Smith said. Because the bricks are porous, workers use a specialized
The scaffolds covering the Dome will remain until August of 1996. Along with interior pressure washer that treats them carefully. renovations, the Main Building remodeling project will cost around $5 million. 
see DOME I page 6 

By DEBORAH SCHULTZ 
News Writer 
In an attempt to facilitate im­proved teaching at the Univer­sity. the Office of the Provost has created the John Kaneb Center for Teaching and Learning, funded by a gift from trusten John Kaneb. 
Kaneb is a graduate of Har­vard University and is presently chairman and chief executive officnr of Gulf Oil. He has been a trustee of the University since 1980 and chairs the board's committee on student affairs. Kaneb is also a trustee at two hospitals in Boston. 
The Kaneb Center for Teaching and Learning will at­tempt to improve the teaching performance of faculty mem­bers and also facilitate a more effective learning environment for students. 
"The ultimate purpose of the center is to improve teaching 
Regina Hall receives Detex Security System
but it is far too early to specu­late about the details and specifics," said Professor Roger Schmitz, former vice president and associate provost at the University. 
The first step in moving to­ward opening the center is to appoint a director. The director will report to the Office of the Provost and will also have a se­ries of advisory committees. A 
see KANEB I page 4 

David Murphy/ The Observer 
By PEGGY LENCZEWSKI 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
Regina Hall, on the Saint Mary's campus, went on-line this summer. 
But no new computers were installed, and students are still issued the same e-mail accounts. 
Regina Hall went on-line on the card-activated Detex Security System. 
In accordance with the Campus Safety and Awareness Act of 1990, Saint Mary's College security plans on putting all dormitory and class­room buildings on-line. 
According to Richard Chlebek, director of security at Saint Mary's, "personal safety is the most important issue a college can address." 
Chlebek says that individuals have wandered into dorms at night several times in the past. 
Yet, "there was no single occurrence that was the decid­ing factor" in the system's installation. 
Saint Mary's College is taking pro-active steps to ensure the safety of the students and the Detex System will eventually be in all the dorms. according to Chlebek. 
The college is trying to create a safe environment before something happens. 
Currently, there are plans to put Holy Cross and Madeleva Halls on-line pending approval from various finance commit­tees, according to Chlebek. 
The security system's addi­tion was prompted by the changing nature of society, Chlebek said. 
"The changes in society, and the increase of violent crime on other campuses" is the primary motive behind the expanded use of the security system. 
Proud Owner 
However, some students are less than thrilled with the sys­tem. 
According to a Regina Hall resident, because of malfunc­tions in the system, the Detex System does not always allow a student with a valid 10 card into the secured areas of the residence halls. 
Chlebek believes the stu­dents' safety takes precedence over any temporary inconve­niences. 
"Each time a building comes on-line, residents say it's in­convenient. 
But we feel that their person­al safety is most important and worth the minor inconve­nience." 
Suzie Orr. director of resi­dence life and housing at Saint Mary's College, is serving as the temporary Regina Hall director and is living in the dor­mitory. 
Orr said the system is not working 100 percent of the time, but she stressed its im­portance. 
"The system isn't working up to 100 percent capacity, and the security the system pro­vides is well worth the inconve­nience." 
Orr said she feels more confi­dent knowing the dorm is more secure. 
However, one former Regina resident said "I never felt un­comfortable or unsafe in Regina last year. I locked my door. 
"Girls would bring their boyfriends up for the weekend and we all knew they were there. 
And they never got caught breaking parietals. Basically, there were strangers in the hall, regardless of any safety measure the college could take." 
Mike Empey, a freshman from Stanford Hall, won the Huffy Diablo Canyon 15 Speed bike that was raffled off by Notre Dame Security Office. "We set up a tent during Orientation Weekend to answer questions from students and parents. We thought it [the raffle to win the bike] would be a good draw to the booth. It was a real positive event. We saw lots of parents and students," said Rex Rakow, Director of Security and Police. According to Empey, "My dad signed me up. He has always been a lucky guy." 

·---­

r----·-------------­
~ 

page2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, August 24, 1995 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

Our right 


to be 
rude 
The Clash once sang, "You have the right to free speech, as long as you're not dumb enough to actually try it." Thomas Jefferson reminds us, "Eternal vigilance is the price of liberty." 
It seems that some th have forgotten that E. an Hayw~danother price of both Assistant News Eduor 
these luxuries is toler­ance, tolerance of people we may fmd offensive and anything that they might say, because implicit in every American's right to free speech is every American's right to be obnox­ious. 
Where would our nation and our economy be without this precious right? I doubt Howard Stern would be enjoying his current fame without this liberty. 
Thousands of telephone solicitors would be unemployed if inconsideration and thoughtless­ness were outlawed. 
Even more thousands of talk show hosts and their equally obnoxious guests would never have hit the airwaves. 
And numerous of the films that Bob Dole con­siders "Nightmares of Depravity" probably would never be made. 
I must consider the both terms of the sena­tor's catch phrase to be relative. 
I really wonder what a man who has worked alongside Bob Packwood for twenty years con­siders depraved. But I'm more than happy to tell you what I consider nightmares of depravi­ty. 
I fmd it a nightmare that we live in a country where some regions can outlaw certain types of squirtguns and realistic looking toy guns but f"md nothing unlawful about real guns and real live ammunition. 
I fmd it a nightmare that we live in a country whose lawmakers seek to pass a constitutional amendment outlawing flag-burning but not one outlawing cross-burning. 
· Much more violence and mayhem have occurred in proximity to a burning cross than a burning flag. 
And, besides, do we really want an amend­ment that Sonny Bono has helped sponsor? 
I find it a nightmare that one man can tell people to kill law enforcement agents and draw protest while another man, a convicted felon no less, can tell people exactly how to kill law enforcement agents and win an award for it. 
In 1992, Ice-T and his band Body Count released their debut album with the controver­sial "Cop Killer" song. 
Despite the warning sticker on the cover, thousands boycotted Time-Warner's recording division and the track was ordered removed from the album. 
In 1995, G. Gordon Liddy told his radio audi­ence to "aim for the head" when shooting at federal agents, as if such an activity were a daily habit of his. 
This summer, he was presented with an award for free speech in broadcasting. Why were the reactions to basically the same message so different? Has the nation become so anti-government in only three years? 
Perhaps it was the timing, then as opposed to 
now. Perhaps it was the medium, rap music 
versus talk radio. 

Perhaps it was the audience, divisive age groups and races. Perhaps some have more of a right to be obnoxious than others. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• TODAY'S STAFf 

News Viewpoint Jamie Heisler Meaghan Smith Corrine Doran Production Sports Heather Gibson Tim Sherman Heather Dominique Graphics Lab Tech Brian Blank Mike Hungeling 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WORlD AT A GLANCE 
Isreali president says Israel should break off autonomy talks 
Following a suicide bomb­
the temporary solution
Recent bomb attacks 
ing that killed five people, the proposed in the Israel-PLO
claimed by Hamass 
president said today that the accord is too complicated
0 July 24: SiX people were kiUed and 28 Injured
Israel-PLO peace talks are and exposes the 140,000when a suicide bomber blew up acommuter bus not working, and the two in the Tel Aviv suburb of Ramal Gan. Jewish settlers in the West sides should sit down n April 9: Two suicide bombers blew themselves Bank and Gaza to danger. 
llfJ on Israeli buses near theJewish settlement Kfarimmediately to decide the Darom in the Gaza Strip, kilfing seven Israeli Under the agreement, final fate of the West Bank soldiers and an American student. H8111aS and Israeli troops will pull out 
Islamic Jihad claimed responsibility.
and the Gaza Strip. of West Bank cities in 
But the talks, suspended D Ocl19, 1994; A bomb explodes on a bus in phases without dismantling Monday after the explosion, the heart of Tel Aviv's shopping and cafe district; Jewish settlements, and 22 people were killed, 48 wounded.
resumed today. Palestinians will hold elec­
[I April13, 1994: APalestinian rigged withAn Israeli official who explOSives detonated on an ls~aeli commuter bus tions. spoke on condition of as Hreached central town of Hadera: six people Left to future negotia­were killed, 25 wounded.
anonymity said negotiators tions is possible Palestinian April6, 1994: A parked car rigged with would hold "around-the­lifpJosives blew up next to abus in the town of statehood and other tough clock" sessions in an effort to Alula In northern Israel. Nine people were killed issues, including the final
and 45 wounded.
complete an agreement before September 24, the beginning of the Jewish New Year. 

President Ezer Weizman told the Maariv newspaper that the current strategy of talking peace amid violence, while leaving the big questions unanswered, is failing. 
"Where is it written that continuing the talks with the Palestinians is the main thing? Are we doing enough to fight terror? Is now the time to leave all the major cities in the West Bank?" Weizman asked. 
"In my view, we have to move straight to the fmal set­tlement," said Weizman. who has no policy-making power. 
Weizman did not say what sort of fmal settlement he would like to see take shape. But his escalating criticism of the peace process has heartened Israelis who believe 
Hart considering run for the Senate 
DENVER 
Gary Hart says the political world has "grown up" since the 1987 scan­dal that knocked him out of the race for the White House, and he may run for his old Senate seat. The Colorado Democrat told Denver newspapers on Tuesday that friends and supporters have encouraged him to run for the seat now held by Republican Hank Brown, who has decided not to seek a second term in 1996. "When serious people make a serious argument, you've got to give it some thought," Hart said. "But I've reached no conclusion yet." Some supporters have con­tacted fund-raisers who were encouraging about his prospects, he said. Hart, 58, served in the Senate from 1975 to 1987. He is now an international trade lawyer in Denver. He said "the whole political world has grown up" since 1987, when he dropped out of the race for president amid allegations he had an affair with model Donna Rice. 

Signs of Antichrist seen in bar codes 
People concerned about the rise of the Biblical An­tichrist have worried over an almost endless number of leaders and developments. Author Robert Fuller says they include: 
-Ronald Reagan: His three names each have six let­ters, producing "the mark of the beast" -666. He also recovered from an assassination attempt, and the An­tichrist is supposed to appear dead in a parody of Jesus' resurrection. 
-Bar codes: These computer-readable codes on pack­
ages have been called an attempt to computerize the na­
tion and its citizens, paving the way for a one-world 
economy controlled by the Antichrist. Numbers in the 
codes sometimes contain the digits 666, feeding the 
fears. 


• NATIONAl WEATHER 
Thursday, Aug. 24 
Accu-Weather'"forecast for daytime conditions and high lemperatures 

The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Aug. 24. 
® 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY tt'"..,i EJ f§:l [nJ HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS  0 FLURRIES  ~ SNOW  8 ICE  C 1995 AccuMWeather, Inc. ~ !::J. U SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY  
Vl.a Alaociated p,...  

borders, the future of Jerusalem, the return of AP/Wm.J.casteno Palestinian refugees and the status of Jewish settlements. 
Weizman said he was not convinced that Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat could contain the anti-Israel vio­lence. 
"We have to sit and reassess the situation. It cannot continue this way," he said. 
His comments came a day after an explosion tore through two crowded buses in Jerusalem, killing five people, including an American teacher. Of the more than 100 injured, 28 remained hospitalized today, and six were in serious condition. 
The militant Muslim group Hamas, which opposes the Israel-PLO peace process, claimed responsibility and warned of more attacks. 
Teen survives week locked in boxcar 
HERMISTON, Ore. 
Mike Wright just wanted a quick ride into town for some candy and soda when he jumped a train near his home in western Kentucky. He ended up traveling 2,000 miles. A couple of railroad workers who heard Wright's calls for help freed the Kentucky teen-ager from an insu­lated produce car on Monday -a week after he first en­tered it. "He wasn't walking too straight but he had a big smile on his face," said crew hauler Jackie Dunlap. Wright, 17, told his rescuers he had jumped aboard a train Aug. 14 as a quick way into the small town of Crofton, Ky. But the train did not stop until it reached Evansville, Ind., 65 miles to the north. He switched trains and, believing he was on his way back home, fell asleep. He awoke to find that someone had closed and latched the car door. A week later, Dunlap and yard switchman Les Stuplich parked their truck beside the boxcar as they prepared to separate some boxcars. That's when they heard Wright calling for help and freed him. Stuplich said Wright looked terrible, but was fine except for being dehydrated and hungry. 
John Salvi competent to stand trial 
DEDHAM, Mass. 
A judge found John Salvi III competent Wednesday to stand trial on murder charges in a shooting rampage that left two people dead at abortion clinics. Superior Court Judge Barbara Dortch-Okara said prosecutors had pre­sented a "preponderance of evidence" proving Salvi was competent to go to trial. No trial date was set but the judge said she was aiming for December. Salvi, 23, has said he wants to stand trial and will accept the death penalty if convicted. He has tried to make statements during court appearances and rambled to a defense psy­chiatrist about a conspiracy against Catholics. He sat emotionless in court Wednesday, handcuffed and wear­ing a bulletproof vest. Salvi is charged with killing two receptionists and wounding five other people. 
73  Dallas  95  79  New Orleans 92  76  
65  Denver  92  63  New York 85  64  
61  Los Angeles 85  66  Philadelphia 86  64  
60  Miami  90  79  Phoenix 90  78  
74  Minneapolis 86  67  St. Louis 91  69  


Thursday, August 24, 1995 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Rosswurm named as Assistant Director 
By JENNIFER LEWIS 
Saint Mary's Assistant Editor 
Katherine Graham Rosswurm is not only furthering her edu­cation after Saint Mary's, but she is giving some of it back to the students. 
1losswurm received her bach­elor of arts degree with a dou­ble major in communication and theater from Saint Mary's in 1992 and later received a job as Admissions Counselor. Last June she was promoted as the assistant director of admis­sions. 
Her husband, Glen Rosswurm II, is the Associate Director of Planned Giving in the Development office at Notre Dame. 
As Assistant Director of Ad­missions, Hosswurm coordi­nates the student VISA (Volunteers In Support of Ad-
FLOWERS DELIVERED <Sl7 DAYS<Si


mission) program, organizes Fall Day on campus, handles the telephone recruitment pro­gram, assists the associate di­rector in coordinating the alumnae VISA program and manages the college's recruit­ment activities in seven states. 
Rosswurm also is active in the Michiana Association of College Admission Counselors (MACAC), serving on the public relations committee as well as the planning committee for the 1995 regional conference. 
In addition to her duties at Saint Mary's, Rosswurm is get­ting her Master's degree in Science and Administration (MSA) from Notre Dame. 
Rosswurm plans on staying at Saint Mary's, and hopes to one day start a family. "But as of right now, I would be very sad leaving Saint Mary's after eight years." 
Professor stresses family's role 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE 
Assistant News Editor 

The formation of morals should begin and be nurtured primarily in the home. accord­ing to Notre Dame Law Profes­sor Douglas 
Kmiec. •-·­
In his new · 
b 0 0 k • 

"Cease-Fire on the Family: The End of the Culture War," Kmiec, a widely quoted scholar of constitutional law, focuses on the family as the primary source of personal and cultural virtue as he rejects the "fool's game" of attempting to solve society's problems through legislation. 
"It's up to us," Kmiec said. "Morals should be taught close to home. If it doesn't happen in the family or the church con­gregation, it won't happen in the school." 
Going beyond the usual politi­cal rhetoric of "family values," Kmiec, a father of five, said he aims to talk as a father to other mothers and fathers as he em­phasizes the importance of be­lief in God and a knowable truth. Through a mix of social analysis and personal experi­ence, he provides parents with practical guidelines for restor­ing-or keeping intact-their own family and faith traditions. 
"My book is meant to clear the air," said Kmiec, a member of the Notre Dame Law School faculty since 1980. "It's an at­tempt to give families hope and guidelines for distinguishing 'real' things versus 'artificial' things like T.V., that have con-


Correction: 
Open till MIDNIGHT, 
Monday-Friday 
tributed to the cultural strife we are experiencing today." 
Kmiec said that the type of entertainment on television to­day contrasts the values and aspirations that families have for themselves. 
"We should concentrate on real activities -not on electron­ic things that demoralize us. In order to do that, we must de­emphasize government and television." 
When families watch too much television in the home, conversation is sacrificed, and there is little communication of each member's "frustrations, dreams and aspirations," Kmiec said. 
In his book, which he says, "gives substance to the term 'traditional values'," Kmiec discusses "mega-virtues, a be­lief in God and a belief in an objective noble truth." Another part of the book deals with what used to be called the "cardinal" virtues -justice, for­titude, temperance and courage. 
"My message to the families is that law is not morality. It creates the minimum standards for morality. It is very sec­ondary." 
Ideally, Kmiec said, people should be empowered at a more local, decentralized level. 
As an example, Kmiec de­scribed welfare reform legisla­tion "that ought to be designed to promote our personal re­sources." 
"People at Notre Dame know this," he said. "They're going to homeless shelters, and they're asking, 'How can I make that life just a small increment bet­ter?' They're providing people with comfort that they're not alone in doing things like teaching them to read." 
Kmiec is the author of four previous books and numerous articles for both academic pub­lications as well as the opinion pages of the Wall Street Jour­nal, Chicago Tribune and Philadelphia Inquirer. One of his books, "The Attorney Gen­eral's Lawyer," chronicles his experiences in the Meese Jus­tice Department. 
He served as an assistant at­torney general in the Reagan and Bush administrations, di­recting the Office of Legal Counsel in the U.S. Department of Justice while on leave from Notre Dame. Kmiec has been recognized with distinguished service awards from two cabi­net departments-Justice in 1987 and Housing and Urban Development in 1983. 
Kmiec's accomplishments at Notre Dame include the found­ing of the "Journal of Law, Ethics and Public Policy," which has examined such issues as law and morality, lib­erty as a constitutional value, public and private education, and the Catholic Bishop's Pastoral Letter on the American Economy. He also was the first director of the University's White Center on Law and Government, and in 1987, he was selected as a 40th Anniversary Fulbright Distinguished Scholar. 
As an honors graduate of Northwestern University and the University of Southern Cali­fornia Law Center, Kmiec is a member of the bar of the U.S. Supreme Court and the state bars of Illinois and California. 
He is currently on leave from Notre Dame during the 1995­96 academic year, serving at Pepperdine University as the school's Straus Distinguished Chair in Law, a position previ­ously held by Supreme Court Chief Justice William Rehn­quist, Supreme Court Associate Justice Antonin Scalia and for­mer U.S. Solicitor General Kenneth Starr. 
Flowers, Roses, Balloons, Birthday Cakes, Fruit Baskets, Plush Animals and Gifts 


C/ocktower Square 
ALL MAJOR CREDIT Phone Answered 
51400 US 31 North 
24 Hours a Day

South Bend CARDS ACCEPTED 
277-1291 or 1-800·328-0206 

WELCOME BACK! 
Need a job that fits your busy schedule? 
Memorial Home Care offers an excellent opportunity to fit work around your class load! 0 We're seeking energetic, responsible, caring people to join our KidKare child care staff. 0 As a KidKare registry staff member, you'd be "on call" 
Call 273-2273 to find out more! 

Memorial Home Care® 
17390 Dugdale Drive, South Bend, IN 46635 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, August 24, 1995 
will all be a matter of organiza­tion. The project should be un­
Refugees flee to countryside Kaneb 
der way as soon as a director is 
By CHEGE MBITIRU he said. Associated Press There were no indications 
Zaire would stop the expulsions 
GOMA, Zaire it began without warning Sat­
More than 85,000 desperate urday. refugees have fled to the hills, The central African nation into the countryside and possi­borders nine neighbors and has bly even to other refugee camps 1.8 million refugees, more than to escape expulsion from Zaire, any other country in the world. 
U.N. officials said today. ·The United Nations and the 
U.S. State Department warned that the forced exodus of Rwandan and Burundian refugees from camps in eastern Zaire could lead to a humanitarian disaster of epi­demics and hunger. 
Despite the protests and warnings, Zaire pressed on with the expulsions today, ap­parently pressuring the United Nations to find another country to take the refugees, most dis­placed by their countries' eth­nic bloodbaths. 
More than 8,000 people have been rounded up for expulsion from Bukavu on the southern end of Lake Kivu, and unruly and sometimes brutal soldiers are using trucks, buses and pri­vate cars to ferry refugees out of a camp at Goma, 100 miles northeast. 
"We must condemn the vio­lence being directed against these refugees," said Carrol Faubert, the U.N. High Com­missioner for Refugees special envoy for the region. 
"These forced expulsions must stop immediately. UNHCR hopes that Zaire will remain loyal to its generous humanitar­ian tradition and continue, as in the past, to honor its commit­ments as a country of asylum," 




The Observer 
is now hiring for the following paid positions: 
Assistant Accent Editor Accent Copy Editor 
Bring Personal Statement to Krista Nannery in 314 LaFortune 
Calll-4540 for more information 

WANTED: 
20 Paid Student Callers Students looking for a part-time job that will give them real life experience in an enjoyable work environment, calling alumni on behalf of the Notre Dame Annual Fund. 

REWARD: 
Training, evening hours, $5.95/hour. 
Fit the description? (No experience necessary.) Stop by one of our information sessions on Thursday, August 24 at 4pm or 5pm 



(:~~~:~:~~::ze~;~~~i~~:~~~. 
tl 

II ,.., 6~~~~~~s~r i:~: ~~~~~t) ,... II 
···~::F:: ...........................................................~·········•·············....·.····-· P'-e e-'::b-.: 
..________..........--..--....-.....___....··-~-----~~~..-~--..~ ...............~~~-~~­

continued from page 1 picked though, because theThe figure includes more than 1 
funding is available," said
million Rwandan and 72,000 
search committee has been Schmitz.
Burundian refugees. 

formed to accomplish this, but The effect the center will
Zaire also holds refugees 
a director has not yet been have on the learning process is from conflicts in Angola, Sudan 
named. unknown, according toand Uganda.Almost all the 
"The details of the project de­Schmitz, but one of the firstrefugees in eastern Zaire, are pend on what the director does goals of the center is to holdethnic Hutus from Rwanda and and how he works with the sessions and workshops to edu­Burundi. 
committee members. There is cate graduate students about a long list of things to be done, teaching. much more than what will be The center will be located in able to be done early on, so it DeBartolo Hall. 
BACK TO SCHOOL SAVINGS AT ®Lechters HOUSEVVARES UNIVERSITY PARK MALL PRESENT THIS AD BETWEEN AUGUST 19TH AND SEPTEMBER 12TH AND RECEIVE 20% OFF PURCHASES OF $20 OR MORE. LECHTERS YOUR BACK TO SCHOOL HEADQUARTERS! 271-0723  

Thursday, August 24 
•Sneak 
preview of the movie, "Brothers McMullen" Cushing Auditorium 8 pm and I 0:30 pm 

•FREE 
billiards, 9 pm-I am, and FREE video games, I 0 pm -II pm in the LaFortune Gorch Games Room 



Friday, August 25 
•Welcome 
Back Picnic Fieldhouse Mall 4 pm-6 pm FREE FOOD, GIVEAWAYS!!! , / '\ 

•Comedy 
Night at Washington Hall 8 pm $3.00 '~~\)" Featuring: Greer Barnes and Rock Reuben ' ~ <>.. .­

• .. 


•FREE 
Ice Cream Social --Fieldhouse Mall I 0 -II :30 pm -._ 

•"While 
You Were Sleeping" -...._: Cushing Auditorium 8 pm and 10:30 pm $2.00 


Saturday, August 26 
•Rockfest 
IV: featuring campus bands FREE FOOD AND DRINKS Fieldhouse Mall I -5 pm 

•Notre 
Dame Night at Coveleski Stadium: South Bend Silverhawks vs. Burlington Bees FREE TICKETS, at the LaFortune Info Desk 

FREE SHUTTLE to the stadium, begins at 5:45pm and leaves from Stepan Center 

•"While 
You Were Sleeping" Cushing Auditorium 8 pm and 10:30 pm $2.00 


Sunday, August 27 
~~..~

.-.;,&>+ 
"While You Were Sleeping" @~~~~ Cushing Auditorium 2 pm $2.00 
. 
vvv 

Sponsored by:
. 

Office of Multicultural Student Affairs
J
'-"~ 

Student Activities Student Government Student Union Board 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
--~ -----~----------­
-~--------------------~---~------.l 
Thursday, August 24, 19~) The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
---------------------------------~~~~--~~~~~~~~~--------------------------------~~~ 
Staff recognized at presidential dinner Engineers 
Special to the Observer 
Fifteen University of Notre Dame faculty members and four staff members were ac­corded special recognition at the annual president's faculty din­ner. 
H a I p h Mcinerny, Grace pro­fessor of medieval studies, pro­fessor of phi­losophy and director of the Jacques Maritain Center, received the prestigious Faculty Award, whose recipients are nominated by the faculty at large and selected by a commit­tee of former winners of the award. A faculty member since 1955, Mcinerny is the author of more than 70 books-both fic­tion and nonfiction, popular and scholarly. 
Mcinerny is distinguished in academic circles as a leading Thomist (a proponent of the philosophical system of St. 


Thomas Aquinas) and in popu­lar circles for the best-selling mystery novels, including the adventures of the priest-detec­tive Father Dowling. A past president of the American Catholic Philosophical Associa­tion, he is the founder (with Michael Novak) of the conser­vative Catholic journal "Crisis." 
Graduate School Awards were presented to Robert Jo­hansen, professor of govern­ment and international studies and fellow of the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, for developing and launching an innovative interdisciplinary graduate program in peace studies, now regarded as one of the best in its field; and to Kwang-Tzu Yang, Hank profes­sor of aerospace and mechani­cal engineering, for his 40 years of contributions to his de­partment and for urging the development of a doctoral pro­gram in aerospace and me­chanical engineering. 
The Rev. Paul Foik, C.S.C., Award was given to Janis John­ston, law librarian, who over­saw the integration of a mas­sive 34 percent increase in law library holdings in a single year and "helped shape the law li­brary into an accomplished re­search instrument." 
Alexander Hahn, professor of mathematics and a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1972, was named the recipient of the Thomas P. Madden Award for the outstanding teaching of freshmen.Father Richard McCormick, S.J., O'Brien professor of emeritus of Christian ethics, received the Reinhold Niebuhr Award for exemplifying the admonition given annually to Notre Dame graduates-to turn scholarship to service. The award is pre­sented annually to those whose life and writings promote or exemplify the theological and philosophical concerns of Niebuhr, the famed Protestant theologian, particularly in the area of social justice. 
The Grenville Clark Award, honoring members of the Notre Dame community "whose vol­untary activities and public ser­vice advance the cause of peace and human rights," was pre-

WELCOME BACK 
........ a few reminders....... . 
Papers, Journals, Study Questions are due ! 
The SSP Celebration August 26 (Saturday) Center for Social Concerns 
The Retreat begins at 5:00pm on Friday til 5:00 pm on Sat. 
there are a couple of openings for Fr. non's class 
Welcome Students 
Now That You're Back 
It's Time to Start Planning 
... for Fall Break! 
Consider: Service and Work for Justice 
Participate in: 
Social Concerns Sen1inars 
• One-Credit Experiential Learning and Service Opportunities in Appalachia, Washington D.C., and Chicago 
Applications (due Sept. 7.) are available at the Center for Social Concerns 
sen ted to Eugene McClory, who 
is retiring as associate director 
of the Center for Social Con­
cerns after having served in 
that post since 1984. 
Sister Marietta Murphy, I.H.M., rector of Badin Hall since 1980, received the Father John "Pop" Farley, C.S.C., Award, named for a legendary rector of Sorin Hall and pre­sented for exceptional service in student affairs. Murphy is leaving her post to become di­rector of the I.H.M. Develop­ment Program, based in Mon­roe, Mich. 
The Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C., Award, given annually to members of the Notre Dame community whose preaching, writing and example embody the social dimension of the Gospel in a remarkable way, was given twice for 1995. The award was presented to Father Stephen Newton, C.S.C., rector of Sorin Hall on campus who was also the first director of Life Treatment Centers Inc. of South Bend. 
The second Toohey award was presented to Margaret and Michael Garvey, a couple cited for "wearing the Beatitudes like comfortable clothes" in a long history of service and hospital­ity to others, notably the men­tally disabled. Michael Garvey is assistant director of public relations and information. 
Special Presidential Awards, honoring exceptional service to the University, were presented to Sister Kathleen Cannon, O.P., associate provost and con­current associate professor of theology; Eileen Doran and Barbara Szweda Gasperetti, as­sociate professional specialists in law and codirectors of the Notre Dame Legal Aide Clinic; Dolores Warwick Frese, profes­sor of English; and Father Eu­gene Gorski, C.S.C., associate professional specialist and ad­junct assistant professor of the­ology. 
Also receiving special Presi­dential Awards were Alan Howard, professor of mathe­matics; James Kohn, professor of chemical engineering; Luther Snavely, Jr., professor of music and director of bands; and William Wilkie, Nathe professor of marketing. 
expanding to London 
By AMY SCHMIDT Assistant News Editor 
In an effort to increase awareness of the global mar­ketplace, Notre Dame's de­partment of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering is sponsoring a semester abroad in London, according to Depart­mental Chair Thomas Mueller. 
Mueller said that the increas­ingly global marketplace has produced a need for engineers that have international experi­ence. 
"The globalization of the world economy and advances in transportation and commu­nications in the last three decades have led to an explo­sive increase in multinational corporations," Mueller said. 
"As a result, there is a grow­ing need for engineering professionals who are able to understand and work success­fully in cultures other than their own." 
"International study will be­come something every engi­neer should do," he added. 
Mueller also suggested engi­neers participating in the Lon­don program will have a com­petitive edge after their grad­uation. 
Although few engineering schools offer international study opportunities, Mueller believes that most top schools will eventually add the pro­grams. 
"International educational experiences not only help recruit and retain top students and enrich the curriculum, but also enhance the University's global standing and perspec­tive," Mueller said. 
Seven juniors are currently participating in the program which will eventually accom­modate 20 students. 
The curriculum consists of two engineering courses and three humanities courses taken through the program estab­lished in London by the College of Arts and Letters. 
Participants also study ex­amples of British engineering, such as the Thames Flood Bar­rier and the Channel Tunnel. 
These examples will be stud­ied in the context of engineer­ing practice within the United Kingdom and throughout Eu­rope. 
Mueller said that he hopes to see the program expanded to countries in Central and South America. 
In addition, other Notre Dame engineering departments have expressed interest in cre­ating programs in Austria and Germany. 


SAVE MANY DOLLARS $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Textbooks -up to 40% off (for all courses) Two day or immediate pick up service. 
PANDORA'S 
at Notre Dame and Howard Street 233-2342 See you there! 
------------------~-~ ----·· 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, August 24, 1995 
Do01e 
continued from page 1 

"You want the pressure washer to be strong enough to clean the bricks, but you don't want to damage them either," he said. "We were able to fmd a solvent that is not overly aggressive." 
The trim of the exterior will also be touched up with a new coat of paint. 
·"We plan to make the colors on the hoods over the windows a bit darker," Smith said, "and the front porch will be repaint­ed." 
Following the construction of Keough and O'Neill Halls on the south side of campus and the movement of students from Grace Hall to the new dorms in August 1996, the offices within the Main Building will be moved to Grace, and an interior renovation of the building will begin. 
Expected to last from summer 1997 to summer 1999, the inte­rior renovation will include a restoration of the building's murals and paintings and a rehabilitation of the fifth floor, which is currently unused and closed to the public because of serious structural damage. 
Three classrooms will be 
added, and some of the current offices, such as the Registrar's Office, will be rebuilt, Smith told The Observer in May. 
"The functions of the offices have changed over time," he said. "They need to be updated 

as  computer  technology  
changes and  as their roles  
change."  

Because of the heat and humidity that has hovered over the area this summer, workers have adjusted their schedule, Smith said. 

"Instead of working in the heat of the day, they've begun earlier, around six in the morn­ing, and worked until three in the afternoon," he said. 


Flanner 
continued from page 1 
construction, this is a good de­cision," Kirk said. 
Kirk said the savings figures were estimations based on the total cost of each dormitory. The University expects each West Quad residence hall to cost about $9 million dollars. 
Figures on the costs of con­verting Flanner, Siegfried and Knott into their new roles were not immediately available. Kirk said the University will have a better idea of the cost of those projects as the project pro­gresses. 

Vice President for Student Af­fairs Patricia O'Hara informed residents of Flanner, Knott and Siegfried that their dorms would be converted for other uses in a letter distributed Monday at midnight. In that letter, O'Hara identified cost savings considerations as play­ing a part in the University's decision. The letter announced that residents of Flanner will be moved into Siegfried and Knott Halls. In turn, the women of those two dorms will moved south to West Quad, where they will occupy two new, unnamed female resi­dence halls. 
Choose from our 
great selection of COs. 
Artists include Brother 
Even your Cane, Clueless movie soundtrack, Elastica, Everclear, Foo Fighters,
social life has 
Hum, Radiohead, Rusted 
prerequisites. Root, Shaggy, Silverchair, Smoking Popes and Sponge. 
each $lQ.99 
sale 
EPIC 

TARGET COUPON 
Buy one set of Qualex prints, get a second set 
CAPITOL 

FREE 

Enclose this coupon and one roll of 110. 126, disc or 35mm full 
frame color print film or single-use camera (C.4l process only)
in a fi 1m developing order en vel ope. Choose 3" or 4" Twin Photo 
Galaxy or 4" Twin Big Prints. Write "2nd Set Free" in the 
Special Instructions box. Photo Galaxy not from 126. Offer not
TARGET COUPON EXPIRES 10115/9.5 ---------, 
~~~mn~~n~;~~~~r~~~~~£~ ;n°) ~r~;r cg~f~;: ~~;rgg~g~~ Jn~r n~~est · 
accepted, Photo Ga Iaxy is a registered trademark of Qua Iex Inc. 
®TARGET
Rubbermaid 
We do your pictures, too. Target Film Developing





$1 off 

dual~action 
wastebasket M large laundry basket ---, 
··-. Consumer: Limit one i tern per coupon, one coupon per guest. 


$1 off
Reproductions not accepted. Cashier: Scan product then scan coupon. 

Suburbanite large angle 7 broom, jumbo butterfly mop M standup butler 
Consumer: Limit one i tern 
per coupon, one coupon per 
guest. Reproductions not 
acceoted. Cashier: Scan 
product then scan coupon. 
--------------------iftiriri1Meiii4.Ui EXPIRES 12/31/95 -, I 
I 

IL--------------------t
3rollsof


$1 off 
I 
Target col or print film (Single M 3-pk. > 

OR School is 
G) TARGET 
Target Fi 1m Developing
any Target One Shot camera hard. 
(with QL without flash) 
Consumer: Limit three rolls per coupon. one 
Ta r get +--i---=s=----ea_sy_.-------,
coupon per guest. Reproductions not accepted. Cashier: Scan product then scan coupon. 
We do your pictures, too. 
®TARGET 
85239 52876 6 
0rensevendaysaweek811Mtol0PM. -~d·-·· ~
·•.

To find the large nearest you, calll-800-800-8800. .._ ­
Advertised sale price good through Saturday, September 30, 1995. 

The Observer/David Murphy 
A definite strike 

Alumni sophomore Jeff Ho enjoys the nice weather with baseball on South Quad. 
An original play .. · 
The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Reynolds convicted by jury 
By JAMES WEBB 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 

Rep. Mel Reynolds was con­victed Tuesday of having sex with a former campaign work­er while she was underage, then trying to thwart the inves­tigation. 
As the verdict was read, Reynolds sat expressionless. He repeatedly mouthed an inaudi­ble phrase and looked at the jury. His wife and mother sat next to each other in the court­room with little expression on their faces. 
Reynolds testified that he never had sex with campaign volunteer Beverly Heard when she was 16 and 17, and that they only fantasized about it over the phone. The black con­gressman said he was the tar­get of a racially biased, politi­cally motivated prosecution. 
Jurors deliberated more than 14 hours before convicting Reynolds on all counts. 
The most serious charge, criminal sexual assault, carries a mandatory minimum penalty of four years in prison. He also was convicted of sexual abuse, child pornography and ob­struction of justice. 
Cook County Judge .Fred Suria set a Sept. 12 hearing date for post-trial motions. No sentencing date was set. Reynolds will remain free on a personal recognizance bond. 
Prosecutors built their case on graphic tape-recorded tele­phone calls in which Reynolds discusses sex acts with his teen-age accuser. But the trial ultimately focused on the conflicting testimony of Reynolds, 43, a two-term Democrat, and accuser Beverly Heard, now 19. 
After 13 nights in jail for re­fusing to testify, Heard emerged to tell the jury she had a consensual sexual affair with Reynolds beginning in 1992. But she said he doesn't deserve prison and asked the jury to find him innocent. 
Reynolds testified that he succumbed to his weakness and had phone sex with Heard but never had physical contact with her. He accused Heard of trying to extort him and said prosecutors used "Gestapo tac­tics" in an out-of-control effort to convict him. 
Prosecutor Andrea Zopp de­nied that race and politics played a role. "The defendant sits here today not because he's a congressman, not because 

t Buddy Farmer. 

Friday, $.'p~a~ll•.r.J;I. -~~.::t,_laturdllY. 
7:30. p.~~,:!.Wiashin&t-.n .... 
To benefit the Ara·Pa.rseghi~ Madical ·· ·. · ·:and: tha' ~a~t at reception, sponsored by' t)le·National·N.D. Ah.l;;nni Associatioll,·after·e~ch·performance. 
Tickets: $50 (a pQrtion: Qf e~chJ~G~$fi~:i~-tl~riuc~ibleL · Call (~18) 63·1~5858:· or,.usa .the-~ord·a~:for:m'below.. ,· : ~ .Visa or Ma;stercard_ac~~pte~. . . . Tickets can also be purchased at the.LaPortun_e·'StuQ.~nt'Centelr op, the-N;J:V campus. · 
¥ ••' _; • • ~:.~~ ••• ··:,·'. ~-•• ·: ( .. ···~"\ ••• ' ..... ~· •• •.: ~':r~:. .~ ·', ~ • ). 



TICKET ORDER FORM 

he's an African-American, but 
because he committed a 
crime," she said in closing ar­
guments. 
Heard launched the case in 
June 1994 by contacting police 
but stunned prosecutors by re­
canting within weeks of telling 
her story. Prosecutors accused 
Reynolds of engineering the 
about-face. 
In Illinois, sex with a 16-year­
old is illegal. Sex with a 17­
year-old is illegal for an adult 
in a position of authority, such 
as a teacher, scout master or 
congressman. 
Reynolds rose from a poor 
childhood in rural Mound 
Bayou, Miss., to earn a law de­
gree at Oxford on a Rhodes 
scholarship. 
He won his congressional seat in 1992 after three bitter races against Rep. Gus Savage, ,who became a symbol of racial antagonism for his tirades against whites and Jews and a 
close alliance with Nation of 
Islam leader Louis Farrakhan. 
Reynolds' indictment in Au­
gust 1994 came too late for any 
serious challengers, and he 
easily won a second term rep­
resenting parts of Chicago's 
South Side and south suburbs. 
In Washington, Reynolds was 
the only freshman on the House 
Ways and Means Committee 
and became a protege of its 
then-chairman, Chicago 
Democrat Dan Rostenkowski. 
But troubling questions 
emerged even in his first 
months in office. Reporters dis­
covered Reynolds had failed to 
make good on thousands of dol­
lars in personal and political 
debts, and The Associated 
Press reported last year that 
his campaign committee failed 
to report thousands of dollars 
in contributions. 
The case was just one of sev­
eral accusations against 
Reynolds. 
In May he was indicted again 
on witness tampering and ob­
struction of justice for trying to 
influence witnesses in the sex 
case. It is unclear when he 
might face trial on those 
charges. 
And for at least a year federal 
authorities have been investi­
gating possible mishandling of 
Reynolds' personal, campaign 
and congressional finances. 
That includes whether he 
fraudulently obtained a mort­
gage for a new house and 
whether he converted cam­
paign or office funds to per­
sonal use. 
Please Recycle the Observer 

•frBII WIUy 2(PG) 12:30,2:45,5:00.7:30,8:50 •Under Siege 2(8) 1:05,3:25,7:55,10:15 •bdllllllll ~G) 1Z:OII,2:15,4:30,7:1JU,I:15 •liiii(G) 12:28,2:30,4:45,7:15,1:30 •lllllllabyJltln CWGJ U:5D,2:50,4:55.7:35,1:55 
•A Kid Ill King Arlllri(PG) 12:48,%:55,5:15,7:25,8:48 ·~G-13) 12:10,3:00,5:30,7:48,1:45 •lllla1 Fftvlr(PG·l3l1t:ili.3:1D.7:2D,1U:D5 
Sleal2(8) U:15,2:35,4:50,7:10,1:35 

11 7:J All S£AT~ I:IHOm b Pl.l 1r rlO PA5Sb SUPlll~AI'tR'; ACCEPTEJ 
page 8 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, August 24, 1995 
Cyanide spill endangers Guyana waters, citizens 
American gold mines cause crisis; Officials distribute drinking water 
By BERT WILKINSON 
Associated Press 
GEORGETOVVN,Guyana 

In what officials called Guyana's worst environmental disaster, residents collected rainwater and authorities dis­tributed bottled water to ward otT a potentially deadly cyanide 
Trend Basics'" 2 and 4 drawer 

spill. 
Schools of dead fish and hogs were found floating down Guyana's biggest river Tuesday, victims of a cyanide waste spill that continued to escape from a gold mine operated by U.S. and Canadian firms. 
More than 325 million gallons of cyanide waste has spilled 
Trend Basics'" 3-bin storage cart. 
each $1Q 

stackable organizer with bonus drawers. sale $7.77 
The average college student does the dishes once a week. 
In the bathroom sink. 
Rival Toaster. 2-slice wide-slot. each $9.99 
into the Essequibo River since Saturday. The spill from Omai Gold Mines Ltd. had traveled 50 miles downstream by Tuesday. 
Yelling through bullhorns from boats, trucks and low-fly­ing helicopters, health officials plied the river banks to warn some 18,000 Indians, loggers and miners not to touch the water. 
The Health Ministry banned people from catching and eat­ing fish, shrimp and other river 
Mirra 7-pc. Cookset. With Permacote 
nonstick interior finish. Includes 1-qt. and 
2-qt. covered sauce pans, 10" frying pan 
and 5-qt. covered Dutch oven. $12 
sale -­

School is 
hard. 
life and told farmers not to let their animals drink from the river. Officials began distribut­ing bottled water, but most res­idents collected rainwater. 
"Luckily for us, the rain has been falling every day," said Mike Ross, police inspector for Bartica, a riverside city of 16,000 residents. 
Prime Minister Samuel Hinds called the spill Guyana's worst environmental disaster. 
President Cheddi Jagan de­clared the area around the spill 
4-pk. Trend Basics'" dinnerware. 
Bowls, dinner plates, salad 
plates and mugs sold separately 
in sets of 4. 
4-pk. $4.94 

Rival Can Opener. With Power Pierce. Rival Hand Mixer. 3-speed with built-in heel rest. $
9 99 

an "environmental disaster area." 
Jagan did not detail the boundaries of the disaster area or the action the status com­prises, but said Parliament would meet Thursday to discuss the crisis. 
The spill occurred when the • retaining wall of a holding pond broke, initially dumping 15.7 
. million gallons an hour of cyanide-tainted water into the Omai River, which feeds the larger Essequibo. 
Trend Basics'" 18-pc. drinkware set. Includes 6 of each: 10112 -oz. rocks, 12-oz. beverage and 16-oz. cooler. 
set $4.97 

e a c h .=.:•=-=--=­66-qt. clear-view storage box. Lets you see what you're storing. 
sale $6 

Ta rget+--i_s_ea_s_y.__ 
Rival Crock-Pot. 3112-qt. with 2 heat settings. 

®TARGET 
each $9.99 .......~. •.l!l!l!!!!!l!!lm!!! Oren seven days aweek 8AM to J0 PM. 
lliiiiiiilli'lliillill ~ ---To find the large nearest you, calll-800-800-8800. 
AdvertiSed sale prices good through Saturday, September 30, 1995. 
Thursday, August 24, 1995 The Observer • WASHINGTON NEWS page 9 
Tribute remembers Frasure 
By TOM RAUM 
Associa1cd Pres.~ 
WASHINGTON 
Career diplomat Robert Frasure-nev.er concealed his frustration with the slow progress toward peace in Bosnia. He once compared crafting U.S. policy there to ne· gotiatlng a wild river in a raft. 
"We need to decide what wa­terfall we want to go over," he wrote in a sardonic memo to his bosses. 
As President Clinton's special envoy to Bosnia for 13 months, Frasure kept searching for that elusive peace. 
Instead. he becomes a foot· note to the protracted and bloody conflict, along with two fellow diplomats killed with him Saturday in a freak auto accident on a mountain road out..o:;lde Sarajevo. 
Clinton, who continues to struggle with the biggest for· eign policy disappointment of his presidency, was interrupt­ing his Wyoming vacation today for rut afternoon memor· ial service honoring the three fallen diplomats. 
To many Americans, the war in the former Yugoslavia is dis· tant, confused, difficult to fol· low or comprehend. It is only occasionally that it becomes etched with an American face. 
The last to come into sharp focus was a boyish one: Capt. Scott O'Grady, the 29-year old Air Force pilot who was shot down and rescued in June after evading capture by Bosnian Serbs for six days. 
O'Grady returned to a hero's welcome. 
A far more somber home· coming greeted the bodies of Frasure, 53; Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense Joseph Kruzel, 50; and Air Force Col. Samuel Nelson Drew, 47, aNa· tional Security Council aide. 
Career diplomats like Frasure -a 21-year State Department veteran -largely toil far from the limelight, known to few Americans. 
But a picture of Frasure as a warm and witty foreign policy professional, a skilled memo writer and compassionate fam­ily man emerged in eulogies and remembrances from those who knew him best. 
"I took him for granted. ... I never told him 1 loved him," his 16-year-old daughter. Sarah, said in a heart-wrench· ing tribute at a military chapel near Arlington National Ceme­tery, where he was buried Tuesday,. 'Now I will never wake· again· to hear him mak~ ing pancakes on a Sunday mqrning.''' . . •'"' : 

See:tetJU'Y of State Warr!'Jtl Christopher called the one"' time political science teacher a "master of metaphor" in his reports and a diplomat "who took risks and found the ways to go forward." 
"When there was a tough or messy job, Bob would get it,'' said John .Kelley, former U.S, ambas!i!ador to Finland and· a close family friend, B-qt Frasure always maintained down-to-earth West Virginia roots, Kelley said. ''He liked bluegrass... and country music.'' 
Frasure maintained a ''wry and keen sense of irony;" said Daniel O'Flaherty, vice presi­dent of the National Foreign Trade Council and a 25•year family friend. "Very dry gin, as one of his students put it," O'Flaherty said. 
President Bush awarded Fra­sure a medal in June 1991 for exceptional service for defus­ing a political crisis in Ethiopia and helping more than 15,000. Ethiopian Jews to emigrate to Israel. 
Clinton contemplates diplomat appointments 
By BARRY SCHWEID 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

President Clinton, interrupt­ing a Wyoming vacation to at· tend a memorial service for three American diplomats killed in Bosnia, is considering a list of recom· mended re­placements who could return to the Balkans byweek's end. Clinton 


The presi· dent and first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton were making a round trip today to participate in the service at Fort Myer, Va., for Robert Frasure, Joseph Kruzel and Air Force Col. Samuel Nelson Drew. 
En route aboard Air Force One, Clinton was getting a re­port from his national security adviser, Anthony Lake, on a meeting that his senior foreign policy aides held Tuesday at the White House. 
The key decision was to go ahead with a seven-point plan designed to end the war in Bosnia through a negotiated settlement. The former Yu­goslav republic would be di­vided into ethnic zones with some semblance of sovereignty maintained for the Muslim-led government. 

Bosnian Foreign Minister Muhamed Sacirbey was getting a readout from Secretary of State Warren Christopher be­fore the memorial service, while the chief U.S. negotiator. Assistant Secretary of State Richard Holbrooke, was provid· ing details of the White House session to Russian, British. French, German. Italian and Spanish diplomats. 
Sacirbey is related by mar· riage to Kruzel, the deputy as· sistant secretary of defense who was one of the three American victims. 
The men died when a French truck carrying them along treacherous Mount Igman on Saturday moved to a rain-sod­den shoulder of the road to let a convoy pass and tumbled end-over-end into a ravine. 





CAMPUS MINISTRY ••. •••CONSIDERATIONS 
liturgical and social service commissioners, to name just a few.



The Notre Dame Spirit 
All these students help make Notre Dame the welcoming and friendly place it is.
The past few days, while freshmen were moving in on some of the hottest and most humid days of the summer, several Campus Ministry activities are already in full stride. I hope events were deeply imbued with the Notre Dame spirit. 
you will see us on activities night and become a part of our many peer-ministry based activities, including Communities Transfer Orientation is already a great Notre Dame tradition. 
ND, the N.D.E. and Fourth Day, ministries at the Basilica, A few years ago, a young woman who had transferred here the our pastoral initiative for gay and lesbian undergraduate year before, came up with the idea of a special orientation students, our six choirs, Bible study groups, R.C.I.A. and guided by former transfer students for the young men and Confirmation for candidates and sponsors, Misa en Espafiolwomen coming here for the first time from other universities. 
and Coro Primavera de Nuestra Senora, off campus activities The weekend now begins on Thursday, with Mass at the and special events stressing multicultural values. 
Basilica followed by lunch for all the families. Other days are filled with a mini-urban plunge, help with registration, tours You'll hear more about all these programs in the around the campus and a day at Warren Dunes. A couple of coming weeks. In the meantime, thanks to all who student leaders work hard during the spring semester made the past days fun and easy from newpreparing these events. Then more than two dozen students undergrads and welcome back to campus!
come back early to serve as welcome guides who 'have been 
Fr. Richard V. Wtlrner, C. S. C.
there.' I think the friendly presence and generosity of these Notre Dame students is a great way to welcome nervous 
Scripture Readingsfor This Coming Sunday
Darners to their new home. 
1l 
~(C 
. ''IFl<OOciJfuiD$ Isaiah 66: 18-21 
Each hall has a freshman orientation committee which is also a great tradition. As parents and new students move in with 
m@l. ,> ...•.... 
, , '·, ·.'· •...···.·.· ..... rn,;.~Jl.'l 
..·· ... ···.' ·.·. ~~lli\@' Hebrews 12:5-7~11-13
van loads of stereos, computers, clothes, books and posters, 
'~ '.Pt. t •.•.,•••.'..••. · ..··,, ··~n· they are met by the welcome smiles and the helping hands of 
\U!®~jp)® Luke 13:22-30 
members of the committee. Parents always mention how much this means to them, and how much confidence it gives 

Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica 
them in the spirit of Notre Dame. I don't think halls ever lack for volunteers for this special service. 
Sat. Aug 26 5:00 p.m. Rev. Stephen Newton, C.S.C. 
Many other students provide similar services in these days Sun. Aug 27 10:00 a.m. Rev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C. 
before classes begin -members of the band and Irish Guard, 
R.O.T.C. cadets and midshipmen, Notre Dame Folk Choir, 11:45 a.m. Rev. Robert Dowd, C.S.C. 
-----~--­









VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Thursday. August 24, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
John Lucas Managing Editor Business Manager Elizabeth Regan Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Po11er Viewpoint Editor.................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ....................... Ryan Malayter Sports Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager ................. .Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor.................................. Rob Finch Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman 
Saint Mary's Editor ....................Pa11i Carson ControUer ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to aU members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through le!!ers is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.l@nd.eduGeneral Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• KEVORKIAN KORNER 

No Joy Ill -Deadville 
Mighty Jerry Has Struck Out 
N
ow look here -this is bad news. berspace Ecosphere, and so on. Deadheads realize. That's my take it on always been at the center of American How bad? Pretty damn bad. This People who disliked the Dead identi-it, anyway. Everybody's favorite Jerry blues and folk music. A few examples of is not the usual "great loss" or "tragic fled this sort of thing with Jerry, songs, even though the lyrics are written the kind of thing I mean: demise," a Ia Kurt Cobain or Thurmon much the way that•---IIIIJII----~ by Robert Hunter, "I've been gambling hereabouts/for Munson, which bums out a fraction of editorialists believed are the songs ten good solid years/If I told all the 

him to have dressed in which most things that went down/it would burn off tie-dye T shirts. embody Jerry's both your ears!." (Deal) 
than the solid bl personality -not, "I fell four flights and cracked my. 
(or, in a wild moo as with most rock spine/Honey come quick with the i-o­
J·osh 

red he invaria stars, his "per-dine... Rich man step on my poor head/ 
wore. What they sona." And that 'When you get up you better butter my 
missed, however, personality. fur-bread!"' (Tennesee Jecl) 
the essential virtue thermore, was not "If I had a gun for every ace I've 
Jerry Garcia and his streamlined for drawn/1 could arm a town the size of 
music: the natural easy marketing, Abilene..." (Loser) 
wholesomeness of the like Mick Jagger's If you don't know these songs, of the population for a month at most. man, and the utterly bad boy, or course. the words seem dead on the Everyone knew it had to come sooner or unintentional expres-Michael Stipe's page; I just want to try to illustrate the later, but waves of misery are rolling sion of his personality pained poet. It best side of Jerry Garcia. But there is throughout America, and even after they in the Dead's music. remained many-no way to put down on a page the the stop, people will feel it where they live. There are dozens sided and under-tense moment of expectation when you 
It's bad, bad. ...-------------• ••----•liill--lllllllillii___.. •••------------•are waiting to hear 

Ozersky 

J
erry Garcia died guitar virtuosos in played for the whole what the first notes 
and t~~h~~~k~v~~yo~ fll/(~~~ ~~~~i~ :~\h~e0r:.yy fJ:~~.rateful Dead's ~~.aa~~r~hespo~~s:~! thing that was good ( / · .\1 J)-_ really good man par from the psy-able glow of recog­about the Dead. A lot \~ ( V( ~ ~1,':-, , among its first chedelic exer-nition when you that was bad about ~ 1 rank. If there real-cise the elderly first know. Nor, for


\,.'\. .1 1 -;::...._ p

the Dead will survive ~ \... ~ : · ly is a rock and roll reporters made it out that matter, is it him: fifteen-year-old \ ~-1_· ~v~ ).; heaven, Jerry will to be, the open secret possible to tell, in lows with their ni-': @; "! certainly be the of Jerry Garcia's 700 words or 7000, trous tanks; pompous t o () ' only one there to music was that the how much every-A.! Gore~types with r , ~ · • / keep Buddy Holly great majority of it body simply liked their ridiculous '=" \\._../ -r"' company; the rest consisted of literate, him. Rock hasn't 
;.>~ •

claims about "60s ide-;-n . -are no doubt in orderly, old-fash-been strong when it alism"; all those terri--·--~ \ \ rock limbo (Kurt ioned songs with comes to normal ble Horde bands and -( '\ 1 ._., ...:.~ Cobain and John three choruses, three human feeling, and their interminable ' "-·-~.,~ Lennon) rock pur-verses, and gently now there's none jazz odysseys, always ~---.---...;::_. gatory (Janis self-derisive humor. left at all. Try the low point of any Joplin, Jimi Some, admittedly, explaining that to Dead show (a fact seldom admitted by Hendrix, Keith Moon) or rock hell (Sid added up to little more than nonsense your parents. deadheads, even to themselves); and of Vicious, G.G. Allin). verse-"I wish I were a headlight, on a course the band's other members' solo This simple fact really accounts for north-bound train," etc. -but more Josh Ozersky is a fifth year graduate projects -Mickey Hart conducts the Jerry's legendary status far more often it represented the kind of extrava-student. He can be reached by e-mail at Namibian Drum Chorus, Bob Weir's Cy-than most rock critics or novitiate gant storytelling and boasting that has Josh.A. Ozersky.! @nd. edu . 
• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 


THe CA!?£3 A6AIN5Tf!&5TRJCT­ING 7W15MOI<IN<3? «JfTH AU PU£3. !</?3P&c;,T; SIR, THAT's A NO-BRAIN&!<.! Plet:.e Or CAI<E.' _,'""~"'--­NO 9«/13AT' 5!MPU3A!7 PIB!  Hetl<, Y&-5.' CAl<& tuAU:. .' PONE /lf:At... NO PR.oet£MO! eoTITCOV~IJ!  
~  
~  
~  
....._,____  _____. rm=rn  

• QUOTE Of THE DAY 

"Like a steam locomotive 1 
rolling down the track I he's gone, he's gone-I and nothing's gonna bring him back I he's gone." 
-Robert Hunter as sung by Jerry Garcia 
--------------~------­



ACCENT 
Thursday, August 24, I995 page II 

By DAN CICHALSKI 
Assistant Accent Editor 
Take 1,800 Notre Dame se­niors, add approximately the same number of mothers and fa­thers and assorted grandparents and other relatives, collect cook­ing recipes from all, select, print, and bind. Yield: one Notre Dame Class of '96 cookbook to r~fer to when the people at Papa John's are beginning to recog­nize your voice on the telephone. 
What began in January as a small idea for a collection of recipes to help those first-time off-campus dwellers tackle their own cooking tasks ballooned into a full-fledged 207-page book with recipes collected from senior class parents coast to coast. "Family Favorites from the Class of 1996" includes over 400 blueprints for appetizers, beverages, breads, desserts, main dishes, soups, salads, sauces, and vegetables. Each section :is separated with color dividers of your favorite herbs and basic, simple suggestions for preparing the dishes to follow as well as hints for such things as ginger ale substitutions and fluffier omelets. 
From Waikiki Meatballs to Nantucket Red and Christmas Morning Rolls to Mrs. Berrettini's Jack-0-Lantern Stew. concoc­tions from across the country cover everything from that 2 
a.m. sugar cookie craving to that sit-down dinner with the in-laws­to-be. 
Over 1,000 recipes were sub­mitted with some families alone contributing upwards of fifty, making the selection process a pleasantly difficult one handled superbly by Senior Concerns Commissioner Kathryn Cavanaugh. With the help of se­nior class president Kevin Kuwik, vice-president Paul Berrettini, and their mothers, among others, Cavanaugh pre­pared the cookbook during the summer so that it would be available when students re­turned this month. One of the more difficult aspects was check­ing (and double checking) all the names to avoid any em­barrassing mistakes. 
Although the recipes come from all family members, "Family Favorites" has that "mother's touch" to it. The final product was proofread by Mrs. Kuwik before printing. Mrs. Berrettini provided some of the initial inspiration for the book; she knew of someone who had done a similar project with Walter's Cookbooks of Waseca, Minnesota. 
With recipes for dishes such as Lazyman Stew, Easy Cheese Ball, Best All-Time Grilled Chicken, Sister Mary Madonna Lasagna, Anne Holtz Chili (yes, that Holtz), and Father Ted's (and Ned's) Baked Spaghetti (courtesy Father Hesburgh and Father Ned Joyce), there is something for everyone to satisfy his or her appetite with the comfort of knowing that these recipes have been tested and approved, even if their own cooking has not. 
"Family Favorites from the Class of 1996" can be purchased for $10 at the senior class office or the LaFortune Info Desk. In addition to helping out those who need it, the cookbook would also make a great gift for the mother or father who just can't get enough of Notre Dame-of which I'm sure we all have at least one. 

Class of '96 cooks up a storm 
MONSTER COOKIES 
3 eggs 
1 c. white sugar 
1/2 tsp. vanilla 
1/2 tsp. corn syrup 
2 tsp. baking soda 
1/4 lb. margarine 
12 oz. peanut butter 
1 c. brown sugar 
4 1/2 c. oatmeal 
6 oz. M & M's 
6 oz. chocolate chips 
Mix together all ingredients. Drop on ungreased cookie sheet. Bake 10 minutes at 350 degrees. Let cookies cool on sheets a few minutes before removing to a rack. They freeze well. 
Mrs. Wm. Clarke Brant, mother ofAndrew Brant 
Seattle, WA 

CHEESE POTATOES 2 (10 oz). boxes frozen hash brown potatoes 1 tsp. salt 1/2 tsp. pepper 2 tbsp. onion, minced 1/2 c. Cheddar cheese, grated 2 tbsp. butter 10 1/2 oz. can cream of chicken soup, undiluted 1 c. dairy sour cream 
Thaw potatoes. Mix with salt, pepper, onion, soup, and sour cream. Sprinkle cheese on top and butter the casserole dish. Bake one hour, or 

GESELL'S HONEY STEAK 
1/2 c. soy sauce 
V2 c. honey 
1 tbsp. ginger (fresh) 
2 garlic cloves, crushed 
1/4 c. oil 
2 tbsp. vinegar 
1 1/2 lbs. flank steak 
until brown and bubbly in a 350 degree oven. Colleen Blaes Cape Girardeau, MO 
g-·--~-(~1£ 
{~ -___ '\'~ 't~~·aJJ~--;~;_
i](~~/
'-., ~ .----·-:--/"
' 
.::_;~z: fi'f:Jl=~< 

-~ ~(~ L:Y&-_:,);• 
Score steak by making crisscross cuts on surface on both sides of meat. Mix ingredients for marinade and pour over steak. Marinate for at least 45 minutes or overnight. Broil or grill meat as desired, slice on the diagonal and serve with leftover marinade which has first been BOILED for several minutes. 

--=:-~)_;:-~' .. ,~Welcome Back! c;-<~.;:9) _,~~ 
-•, )..._~ 
-

By DAN CICHALSKI 
Assistant Accem Edimr 
Now that the U-Hauls have been returned, the car­pots have been unrolled, and classes have begun, the first weekend of the semester is upon us. As the heart of Welcome Week 1995 approaches, Student Activities, the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs, Student Government, and the Student Union Board have scheduled events throughout the weekend (most of them cost-free) to warm you up for that first foot­ball game nine days from now. 
For an appetizer, tonight they are offering a sneak preview of the movie "Brothers McMullen" at 8:00 and 
10:30 p.m. in Cushing Auditorium. The award-win­ning film from the Sundance Film Festival focuses on three twenty-something Irish Catholic brothers from Long Island. The movie will hit theatres in two weeks. 
As an alternative or a pre-or post-movie offering, frtle billiards from 9:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m. and video games between 9:00 and 10:00 p.m. will be available in the Gorch Games Hoom in the basement of LaFortune. 
For the main course on Friday and Saturday, a vari­ety of shows and activities will be held in locales from Washington Hall to Coveleski Stadium. Beginning Friday afternoon at 4:00, a welcome back picnic will be held on the Fieldhouse Mall with free food and other give-aways to help keep some of that summer cash in your wallet. 
However, some imports come with a price. At 8:00 p.m., Comedy Night at Washington Hall presents Greer Barnes and Royale Watkins for $3. While both comedians have been featured on A&E's "Caroline's Comedy Hour," Barnes is perhaps more recognized for his antics on Fox's "In Living Color" and his imperson­ations ranging from Eddie Murphy to Bill Clinton to a Jamaican delivery man. Having also appeared on Comedy Central's "Stand Up Stand Up" and MTV's "Comikaze," he is considered one of most likable comics in the business and one of its rising stars. 
The only other event on the schedule that will require a monetary donation on your part is "While You Were Sleeping" at Cushing Auditorium at 8:00 and 10:30 p.m. For $2 you can see Sandra Bullock follow her supporting role in "Speed" with the lead in this romantic comedy about a subway token vendor in Chicago who falls for a comatose businessman. "While You Were Sleeping" will be shown again on Saturday at 8 and 10:30 and as a matinee at 2 p.m on Sunday, allowing you, if you so desire, to see Sandra flash that cute smile of hers approximately 215 times for only $10. 
To satisfy that craving for dessert and get a jump on (or continue) your "Freshman 15" before it sneaks up on you, head on down to the Fieldhouse Mall on Friday night between 10:00 and11:30. The Ice Cream Social allows you to mix nuts, cherries, sprinkles, and whipped cream with your new and old friends for a filling evening. 
Saturday's events are the climax to the week and involve one main attraction in both the afternoon and evening. From 1:00 to 5:00 in the p.m. Hockfest IV will be held in front of Stonehenge on the Fieldhouse Mall. Enjoy free food and drinks while listening to the 
... 
campus sounds of George, Tackle Box, Sabor Latino, and Emily in the university's own little version of Woodstock. 
After "Domestock," the Class A South Bend Silver Hawks host the Burlington Bees at Coveleski Stadium for Notre Dame Night. Free tickets can be picked up at the LaFortune Info Desk and a free shuttle to the Cove will leave from Stepan Center beginning at 5:45. The Silver Hawks are a minor-league affiliate of the Chicago White Sox and include third baseman Pete Rose Jr., the son of baseball's all-time hit king and Hall-of-Farner to be. Someday. 
As long as you like movies, music, video games, bil­liards, baseball, food, comedy, and refreshments, Welcome Week has something for you to get you back into that South Bend mentality and enjoy the warmer weather before winter arrives-somewhere in the middle of October. 
Thursday, August 24,19 95 The Observer • SPORTS page 12 
I I .. • MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALl 


I Wells ups record to 13-4 as Reds I 
Bichette, Rockies roll 

I continue to run away with 3-1 win
I 
Associated Press the Pirates. Associated Press lead the Houston Astros by 11 "Watson was really hard to Pittsburgh scored twice in the games in the NL Central. hit after that, he's going to be a DENVER first on Merced's bases-loaded ST. LOUIS The Cardinals had won four really good pitcher." Walton 
Dante Bichette hit his league­single. David Wells found what he of their last five, all against said. leading 30th home run and The Rockies came right back needed somewhere betweenthe division leaders. Watson did not allow another reached his career-high with with five runs as they set a club bullpen and the mound. Reds manager Davey Johnson hit until Mariano Duncan sin­96 RBis as the Colorado Rock­record with five straight singles "I didn't have a thing in the said Wells has given the team a gled to lead off the fifth. ies beat Pittsburgh 9-5 and tied another with six hits bullpen while I was warming lift with his pitching, and his The Reds scored two runs Wednesday night to end the Pi­in the inning. up, but I found my fastball sense of humor. that inning when Hal Morris rates' six-game winning Bichette drove in two runs when the game started," Wells "He's one of those strange reached on a error by first streak. and Weis and Ellis Burks said after throwing a six-hitter left-banders who says whatev­baseman John Mabry and Mark 
Walt Weis had four hits, all knocked in one each in the in the Cincinnati Reds' 3-1 vic­er's on his mind, but he backs it Lewis hit a two-run double. singles, for the fourth four-hit first. tory over the St. Louis up with good pitches," Johnson game of his career. Merced drove in another run Cardinals on Wednesday night. said. Watson, who had won three 
Thirteen of the Rockies' 17 in the third with a double, but Wells is 3-1 since being ob­For his part, Wells said being of his last four decisions. 
hits were singles. Vinny Castilla Castilla homered in the bottom tained in a trade with Detroit traded to a first-place team has allowed six hits with two walks added his 29th homer and of the inning to make it 6-3. on July 31 and is 13-4 overall. given him a boost. in 7 1-3 innings. Waston's ERA Andres Galarraga had his 27th Neagle left in the sixth after The left-bander struck out "It turned the season around, is 1.04 over his last five starts. 
giving up a leadoff double to six and walked two while pitch­every game really means some­''I'm watching the hitters and 
Roger Bailey (5-5) survived a Trenidad Hubbard. ing only the second complete thing now," he said. checking out their weaknesses shaky first inning, but went six Jeff McCurry replaced game of his nine-year career Wells got an early lead when instead of just relying on my innings for the victory. Bailey Neagle and Bichette hit and his first in the NL. Jerome Walton led the game off fastball," Watson said. "I tried struck out six. walked two and McCurry's first pitch into the "We had lost two in a row with a home run. to keep my team in the game a!lowed three runs in winning left field seats. and I felt some pressure while I "I don't go up there thinking and I was ahle to do that." his second straight start. Pittsburgh scored twice in the was warming up," Wells said. about a home run," Walton The Cardinals scored in the 
Denny Neagle (11-6) gave up seventh off reliever Curtis "The ball wasn't moving at all said. "But the pitch was an fifth on consecutive doubles by seven runs and 13 hits over five Leskanic, the second run scor­in the bullpen, but I was able to inside fastball that I was able to David Bell and Scott Cooper. innings. He has won only once ing on Merced's infield single. throw strikes once I got out turn on." They had the bases loaded in his last six starts. Galarraga homered in the there." Walton's sixth homer came with two outs in the inning, but 
Orlando Merced had three eighth to make it 9-5. The win snapped a two-game off Allen Watson (5-5}, who Ozzie Smith grounded out. hits and drove in four runs for losing streak for the Reds, who struck out a career-high eight. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Classifieds 
Where the action isll Coach's 3 bdrm., 1-1/2 bath house, 2-car NO ALUMNI NEEDS 2 FOOTBALL 
..........................
NOTICES 
Sports Bar is now hiring for part garage. Ideal faculty/staH home. SEASON TICKETS FOR PERSON-JOIN US AND TOGETHER WE time kitchen, dish and hostess 9-month lease. TICKET-MART, INC. AL USE PAY WELL 2773097 SHALL RULE THE GALAXY! THE 
positions. Perfect for students who 315 Napoleon Blvd. WANTED EMPEROR HAS FORSEEN IT! Save many dollars $$$'sl need to make good $$$ to enjoy the 277-8946. GA'S FOR ANY/ALL Need Northwestern Tix. Will Pay $$ Textbooks-up to 40% oH (for all NO years. Must be 18. Apply HOME/AWAY NO GAMES. or Have Tix to Trade. Call Erin at The Observer News Department courses). Two day (or immediate In person, 2046 South Bend Ave. Student sub-leasing room in BUY• SELL •TRADE #4021 wants you! Now accepting applica­pick-up) service. Lafayette Square Townhomes. 1 (219) 232-0058 • 24 HAS. lions for the following paid posi-PANDORA'S at Notre Dame and WANTED: Saint Mary's sports writ­mile from campus, JUSt remodeled. Will trade two Northwestern GAs for lions-Howard Street 233-2342 See you ers and photographers. You do not very spacious and very nice, male two Navy GAs. Call1245. Associate News Editor 
have to commit on a full-time bas1s. only, need to rent, 200/month. Call Assistant News Editor $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Call Caroline at Greg (219)-234·0985 BUSINESSMAN NEEDS2or4 Need N-Western tix, stud or GA. Chief Copy Editor 284·4349 or come by room 222 in NO SEASON TICKETS ANY OR Call Tim @ x1201. PLEASE!! Copy Editor NEED CASH????? Holy Cross Hall. HOUSEMATE WANTED ALL GAMES. OHIO.ST. FURNISHED -2mi from campus andWASHINGTON A MUST HELPI! I need 1 NW Stu or GA Submit a brief resume and personal MORRISSEY STUDENT LOAN PT babysitter for great 1 0 yr old 3 bdrm/1 .5 bath/2 car garage PLEASE HELP IF YOU CAN ..... Elaine 42389 statement to Dave Tyler by Friday FUND home schooler-fem. Flex hrs $200/mo+elec/cable CALL Mel @ 2771659 August 25th. Questions? call Dave 
$4.Mustlike cats. 287·3315. 289-2804 NEED 2 WASHINGTON TICKETS. @ 1·5323. WHERE: DOOLEY RM@ LAFORT. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ x3520 TOGETHER, WE CAN RESTORE (ACROSS FROM INFO DESK) FANTASY NFL FOOTBALL 3 BEDROOM HOUSE GOOD I NEED STUD TIX APPS!!I ORDER TO THE GALAXY! WHEN: 11:30-12:30 M·F Interested in starting a league? NEIGHBORHOOD ON BULLA RD I NEED STUD TIX APPS!II NOTRE DAME season tickets WHAT: CAN TAKE OUT 30 DAY CALL 289-2804 Leave message 5 MINUTE WALK TO NO 2773097 CALL 273-6047 wanted. Top dollar paid. 674-7625 LOAN UP TO $250 AT 1% INTER­$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ (24 hrs.) Are you motivated? dedicated? EST NEWSPAPER CARRIERS: Interested in writing? 
FOR SALE
WHO: MUST BE A STUDENT W/ Students needed to deliver the I need Northwestern tickets. The Observer News Department VALID 1.0. (GRAD STUDENTS Chicago Tribune, New York Times $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Please call Bryan wants you! TOO) and Wall Street Journal on campus. 1990 HONDA CIVIC OX 4 DOOR NEED MARRIED STUD TIX APPS 272 4249 
Excellent pay for reliable people. STICK 50,000MI $5300 272·2918 WILL PAY$$$$$$ See our ad this page! $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Call Joe Murray@ 634-1680. NEED MARRIED STUD TIX APPS PLEASE HELP ME!II $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 1990 Honda CRX Sl Yellow 5· CALL 273-6047 I need a G.A for the Northwestern Happy Birthday, KATHY MOORE. 
Speed 59K $6950 Firmlll277-9276 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Game-can Leah x4765 From your golfing buddies. 
Subway Sandwich Shops is now HYPNOTIST -INDIVIDUALS OR hiring part-time Sandwich Artists. PRINTER Reliable Panasonic 24-1 G.A. TICKET NEEDED FOR B.C. Need 2 GA's & 3 Stud tix 4 Texas SMALL GROUPS-MORNINGS, Close to campus, will work around pin, VG cond. w/200+ sheets paper GAME 271-1289 game -Reggie x4297 $$$$$$$$$$MONEY$$$$$$$$$$ AFTERNOONS, EVENINGS-STOP your schedule, competitive pay and & 4 new ribbons. $100/B.O. Yes, the Viewpoint SMOKING, WEIGHT CONTROL, a free sub everytime you work. Call Call Fr. Mike 1-8821 NEED TEXAS GA'S. NEED GA's TO ANY HOME (opinions)Department will be hiring PHOBIAS, ENHANCED LEARN-Penny at 277-7744. Call today CALL ALISON 1-800-431-0010, GAMEII!!! people for PAID positions. ING, SPORTS PERFRO· and you could start tommorrow. Macintosh Centris 610 Dos EXT. 8796. CALL KATIE X1093 MANCE, SEXUAL DYSFUNCTION, Compatible runs both Mac software If you write well, know grammar, 
........................................
MEDICAL AND DENTAL ANAES­Macri's Deli in downtown South and windows software. Has both a -----NEEDED-----have an interest in journalism, etc. THESIA 234-2095 Bend is now hiring for all Mac Processor and an Intel 486 2 BC GEN. ADM IS. NEED GA OR STUDENT TICKETS we may have a position to suit you. 
positions. Looking for reliable. chip, no software emulation is FOOTBALL TIX TO USC AND TEXAS HOME Call Michael O'Hara @631-4541 for hard working people in return involved! Also has 8mb of ram and CALL4X2910 GAMES!! WILL PAY GOOD$$$$ more information, or watch The for a fun work atmosphere and a 230mb hard drive. Fourteen inch CALL CHRIS @ 239-8922 Observer for further ads. 
ILOST & FOUND I ......................................
flexible schedules. Apply in color monitor also available. $850 Will trade 2 USC-NO GA's for $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
person, 2-5p.m., 214 N. Niles for CPU only, $1050 with monitor or 2 OSU-ND tickets. Call Jim at ·••••••••••••*FOUND •••••••••••••• Ave. best oHer. Call Matt@ 273-6163 233-9904. NEEDED • NORTHWESTERN WE CAN'T EXIST WITHOUT YOU! a gold quartz pulsar watch near GA'S AND STUD TIX, PLEASE the library circle. call X-3525. FOR SALE: WOOD FRAMED CALL 273-3292 Fight the apathy that seems to run
FOR RENT 
MATCHING COUCH AND CHAIR; *•• ********* ••••• * ** * •••• ************LO rampant in this community of Notre SMALL COFFEE TABLE; LARGE OKING TO BUY STUDENT TICK-TRADE -2 BCNandblt GAs for 2 Dame/Saint Mary's/Holy Cross. If
II

WANTED 
ACCOMMODATION CHEST OF DRAWERS. $100.00 ET BOOKLETS. CALL JEN @ USC/Texas GAs-Call 219-273-you have a gripe, issue, concern, '--------------1 Englishwoman oHers quiet accom-FOR ALL FOUR OR BEST OFFER 273-1738 8379 etc. SHARE it. Let YOUR voice be 
.....................................
Need a fun-loving, responsible stu-modation near campus for ND/SMC ON EACH. heard.
.................
dent to babysit2 children ages 5&7 visitors. Call (219)631-6072 days, ALSO, 25" SCREEN , COLOR , in my Granger home 2-3 afternoons (219) 273-1751 evenings. CONSOLE TV. 20 YRS. OLD,. WANTED: 3 USC TXS The Observer's Viewpoint a week 2-6 pm. Must have own SOME TROUBLE WITH VERT. I My wife will kill me. Need set of PLEASE CALL 312-551·3552 Department exists as a service to transportation. Please call HORIZ. HOLD. $100 OR BEST Married Student tix. Brett 272-you. You make the section what it

················· 
277-5786. NIGEL Y DECORATED ROOMS OFFER. 7223 is. We need you. 
FOR RENT. F-BALL WKNDS, CALL 232·5238; LEAVE MES· Need 1 Texas, will trade 1 SOCCER REFEREES: Students REASON. RATES, GREAT SAGE ON MACHINE IF NESS. Northwestern FIGHT THE APATHY. SUBMIT! needed to referee soccer games for ATMOS., CONTIN. BRKFST, 2 THANK YOU. Wealthy Alum needs tix for all home Karen X4285 south-side elementary school MILES OFF·CAMPUS. CALL KIM games. Brett 272-7223 LONG ISLANDERs UNITE! (Grades 5·8), located near 277-8340. Need 1 Northwestern ga ticket. Go see Brothers McMullen Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street. Desperate student needs 1 ticket to Call Matt at273-6163. TONIGHT All games scheduled between 4pm 2 BDRM HOME FOR RENT NEAR GREAT DEAL! II N-western game for Mom. It's all about us. and 5:30pm, Monday-Friday, Sept CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES Round trip plane ticket-PLEASE call Kevin at 4-4524 OSU TIX· I need 4. Will trade 4 Irish Catholics on Ll 9-0ct29. $15.00-$20.00 per game. 272-6306 South Bend to Los Angeles, Purdue tix plus large sums of cash Must have referee uniform. Call ONLY$230. NEEDED:3 TIX FOR NORTH-for tickets to see Irish crush 291-4200 or 291-8731. HOMES FOR RENT NEAR NO Call Rosanna, 234-3468. WESTERN WILL PAY$$$ Buckeyes. If you can help, call BETH, HERE THEY ARE: 
232-2595 CALL 2875 x3349. SOCCER COACH: Responsible NORBUT KNOWS HIS BASEBALL studenVgrad student needed to HOUSE FOR RENT 6 ga's needed for USC or BC 2 !-ball tix appl's 4 Sale. Call 284­coach JV boys soccer team(s) for 2 Bedrooms for rent in home close TICKETS game. Will pay top dollar for tix. 5118 and leave offer. LOFT BUILDING ROCKS south-side elementary school to campus on State Rd 23. Private Call Matt@ 273-6163 (Grades 5-8), located near entrance & garage. Share bath and LONG-SLEEVE TS RULE

PERSONAL
Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street kitchen. $275.00 + 1/3 utilities. A DEVOTED IRISH FAN NEEDS Desperately need USC tickets!! I Practice 2:15-3:15 pm, Mon-Thurs. Leave mess. : 273-6126 GA'S TO ANY/ALL 3 GA's or 2 GA's and 1 Student THE BOSTON RED SOX VERY All soccer (games 8-12) scheduled HOME/AWAY GAMES. Please call Chris at 288-7843. $5.50 HAIRCUTS WELL MAYBE THE BEST CLUB between 4pm & ROOM WITH KITCHEN, UTILI­219·232-0061, 24 HRS. BASEBALL WILL EVER SEE. 5:30pi'T' Monday-Fri. Coach Sept 5-TIES, ETC. $250/MO. CLOSE TO I need 2 Texas tickets and as VITO'S BARBER SHOP 0ct 27. Paid position-Please call CAMPUS IN SAFE NEIGHBOR­I NEED TIXS TO ALL HOME many tix for Vanderbilt as possible. 1523 LINCOLNWAYWEST E.S., YOU BETTER BE PRACTIC· 291-4200.or 291-8731. HOOD. CALL PAUL 232-2794. GAMES.272-6306 Please call Kathleen at 4843. SOUTH BEND· 233-4767 lNG YOUR POOL PLAYING 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

Thursday, August 24, 1995 
The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
•NFL 


Beleaguered Bengals to battle through injuries 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI 

Cincinnati Bengals coach Dave Shula is keeping a stiff upper lip as injuries begin to decimate a team that finished 3-13 last year. 
"I don't sit there thinking, 'Oh. woe is me,"' Shula said. "When you're confronted with things like this, all you can do is make the best of it ... That's part..of being in a leadership role. 
But the news is getting steadi­ly worse, even for a team with a reshuffled offensive line and a shaky pass defense. 
The Bengals are 1-2 as they prepare to wrap up their pre­season schedule at home Friday night against the New York Jets. 
The season opener is Sept. 3 at Indianapolis. 
In last Thursday's exhibition game against Detroit, three key players were injured. Running back Ki-Jana Carter, the NFL's No. 1 draft choice this year, tore a left knee ligament and will miss the entire season. Backup quarterback David 
Klingler broke his jaw and is ceiver this year, suffered a con­"We'll hear more from the out eight to 10 weeks. cussion Aug. 11 against Tampa doctors this week and then de­Bay and has been placed on cide. We are concerned,"
And linebacker Steve Tovar, injured reserve, meaning that Brown said. who led the Bengals in tackles he cannot play this season. last season, broke a bone in his With Brim out, the Bengalsleft hand. Starting cornerback Mike are using Roger Jones and Rod 
He will be out two to three Brim is expected to miss four to Jones at cornerback. The team weeks, then will return to try to six weeks because of a bulging must make a decision about play with his hand in a cast. disc in his lower back. Brim on Sunday when all teams 
Tovar broke a different bone But doctors are to re-exam­face an NFL-mandated roster in the hand June 15 and missed ine Brim this week. General cutdown to 53 players.the first two preseason games. manager Mike Brown said Brown said the Bengals are 
Wait. There's more. there is a chance the eight-year looking for waiver-wire help, if Wide receiver Tim McGee, a veteran could be placed on it is available, for the offensive 10-year veteran who was con­injured reserve and miss the line, the secondary and the pass sidered Cincinnati's No. 3 re-season. rush. 
catch 
them out 
always 


lo • 
M@IQNij·ii[.j.!.p Expires 10/15195 
$5 Off Men's Brittania Jeans. 
limit one coupon per guest. Reproductions not accepted. Cashier: Scan product, then scan coupon. 85239 52074 

6


®TARGET 
., 
page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, August 24, 1995 
• Cou..EGE fooTBALL 
Hootie blows a kiss goodbye to Alabama 
By KEN BERGER 
Associated Press 

TUSCALOOSA, Ala. Alabama athletic director Hootie Ingram resigned Wednesday after having been rebuked by the NCAA for his part in the university being placed on probation for the first time. 
Ingram said he could no longer be an "asset" to the school, where he has been ath­letic director for six years. He will spend the final two years of his contract overseeing the expansion of the football stadi­um. 
Ingram, reading softly from a statement while the football team practiced on a field across Bryant Drive, said he will remain athletic director until a replacement is found, but "under no circumstances will I continue beyond 90 days." 
University president Roger Sayers said he will seek an act­ing athletic director from out­side the university. He did not say whether the same criteria would be used to select a per­manent replacement, or when that might happen. 
Ingram was one of several Al­abama athletic officials chided by the NCAA in its Aug. 2 report detailing penalties and sanctions. 
Faculty athletics adviser Tom Jones resigned after the penal­ties were announced. Sayers and football coach Gene Stallings remain in their jobs. 
Alabama, one of college football's most prolific pro­grams, was banned from the postseason this year. 
It will lose some 30 schol­arships over three years and must forfeit eight victories in 1993 in which star defensive back Antonio Langham played while ineligible. 
"The infractions committee report compels me to the conclusion that I can no longer be an asset to the program as director of athletics," Ingram said. 
"No tradition at Alabama is more cherished than that of winning within the rules." 
Among the NCAA violations were thousands of dollars in improper loans received by for­mer player Gene Jelks and a report by Jones on the Langham matter that contained "false and misleading" infor­mation. 
Ingram spoke first and re­turned quietly to a seat in the front row of the conference room while Sayers read his statement. Ingram left the room when Sayers began taking questions. 
Ingram and Sayers, who have denounced the NCAA penalties as excessive, said they mutually agreed on Ingram's reassign­ment. 
Sayers, who sent Ingram a letter of reprimand during the course of the investigation, con­tinued to maintain that Ingram had not done anything wrong. 
"My view has not changed with respect to the culpability of any individual," Sayers said. 
Asked if he thought the per­sonnel changes would improve Alabama's chances of getting the NCAA appeals committee to ease sanctions, Sayers said, "I really don't think so." 
Stallings was upbraided less severely by Sayers during the investigation. Sayers said he expected Stallings to remain at the university for the duration of his new five-year contract. 
Sayers said Ingram would collect his base salary during the next two years, but would receive no additional income related to his job as athleti"c director. 


c· 
IGEARUPFOR 
IN THE DORM 4999 
Voice-activated micro answerer 
Don't miss important calls 
when you're not in your 
room. Remote operation. 
#43·752MB 
2499 

Basic trim phone saves space 
Lighted keypad for dialing in the dark. Three colors. White. #43·585MB. Almond. 
#43·586MB. Gray, #43·587MB 
7!~ 
Shielded die-cast 2-way A/V speaker 
Great for use near PC or TV. 4" woofer and 1" soft-dome tweeter. 
Black. #40·2048MB. White, #40·2059MB 


IN THE CLASSROOM 
3988 
Microcassette recorder 
Great for recording class notes. Easy one-hand operation. Two speeds. #14-1159MB 
-~...1-/h~el!
KuU V ft 
5988 
Upright cordless phone won't tie you down 
CCT circuitry provides excellent 
clarity and range. Handy base­
to-handset paging. #43-10osMs 
3499 
AM/FM cassette music system withE-Bass 
Compact speakers let you share the music, headphones let you listen privately. #14-1209MB 
1999 
Indoor TV/FM antenna improves reception 
Fine-tuning control for clearer 
picture and sound .. 
#15-1808MB 
g just a few keystrokes. #Ss-aoaMB franklin is a registered trademark at Franklin HOp
Gift TjExpress®t-------~EI_ectron_icPu---blish.....:::...ing.l-=-nc.-----L...------l~~-a-d_l___,&~hael( 
We can wrap a gift, add a card and ship it Out of whack? Out of warranty? We fix anywhere in the US via FedEx"' delivery most major brands of out-of-warranty 




llad1e lhaeW 
service. For a store near you or to order, call electronics. For a store near you, call
You've got questions. We~ve got answers.sM
1-800-THE-SHACK'" 1-800-THE-SHACKsM 


&13999 
Scientific calculator 

Stores up to 12 frequently used Small enough to carry in your formulas and runs them with backpack or purse. ns3-2110MB 

Survival check list 
o 
Phone cords and accessories 

o 
Alarm clock or clock radio 0 TV, VCR and video accessories 0 Security devices 0 Computer and accessories 0 Batteries 

o 
Stereo equipment, speakers and audio accessories 

o 
Heavy-duty flashlight 0 Smoke alarm 

o 
Part-time job (see the manager of your local Radio Shack store) 



AC accessories to power your dorm 
4-outlet adapter. 2-prong. #61-2621MB ........................ 2.99 6-outlet surge protector in metal housing. ns1-21a1M .... 22.99 6-outlet adapter. For 3-prong outlets. ns1-2s22MB ............ 3.99 6-outlet power strip. Master on/off switch. ns1-21soMs ....... 8.99 Single outlet spike protector. #61-2791MB ...................... 6.99 6-ft. 3-outlet ext. cord. Wh1te. #61-2744MB. Brown:H61-274SMB ....... 1.99 9-ft. 3-outlet ext. cord. White. H61-2746MB. Brown. #61-2747MB ....... 2.39 15-ft. 3-outlet extension cord. ns1-2748MB ............•••...... 3.49 
Prices apply at partiCipating Radio Shack stores and dealers. Itemsnot available at a participating store can be special-ordered (subject to availability) at the advertised pnce. A participatmg store will otter a comparable value it the product is sold out. Independent Radio Shack dealers and franchisees may not be participating in this ad or stock or special~order every 1tem advertised. Copies of applicable war­ranties are available upon request at stores for mspect1on before sale. or by wnting Customer Relalions. 1400 One Tandy Center, fort Worth TX 76102. fedEx trademarks used by permission. 
T R S ®
HE EPAJR 

---~ ------~ --~----~-----~----­
Thursday, August 24, 1995 
The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALL 
Boykin may continue back-up tradition for WVU 
By MATT HARVEY 
Associated Press 
MOGANTOWN, W.Va. 

The starting job is no longer his to win. Still, West Virginia quarterback Eric Boykin is working hard and earning the praise of coaches. 
Boykin, a 6-foot-3, 215-pound junior from Dayton, Ohio, came to WVU last season as a highly touted transfer from Michigan. 
He battled Chad Johnston for the starting spot through the fifth game, finally giving way. 
Now, Johnston is entrenched as the starter. 
"Sometimes it's hard," said Boykin, who attended Meadowdale High School in Dayton. 


"But I just have to stay focused because you never know when the starter's going to go down. 
So on the sidelines you have to stay loose." 
Quarterbacks coach Dan Simrell, who also is the offen­sive coordinator, still has plenty of respect for Boykin. 
He isn't ready to say Boykin can have the same kind of impact that superstar backup Darren Studstill did in 1993 when WVU went 11-0, but he isn't ruling it out, either. 
"I have a great deal of respect for the kids who were here in '93," he said. 
"It's the difference between potential and performance. 
Those kids went 11-0, they performed. (Johnston and Boykin) have great potential .... 
They have the potential to do what (Studstill) and (Jake Kelchner) did." 
Boykin threw for 872 yards and four touchdowns with six interceptions. 
While his statistics this sea­son may not match those unless he gets ample playing time, Boykin believes he will be a better player. 
each $6.99-49.99 
Desk with keyboard shelf and 2 file drawers. Oak-color or white finish. Measures 27 518Hx42Wx 17 3140". Assembly required . 
.-$79.99 
Framed art. Choose from a variety of color and b&w pictures. 


each $9.99-34.99 
Meco steel chair. Choose from a variety of colors. Basic steel design. 
~$7.99 


STUDENT HOUSING AVAILABLE. 1BR, living rm, dining rm, study. Conveniently located in 10 x 12ft. space. 





School is 
hard. 
Ta rget+--i_s_ea_s_y._ 
®TARGET 
....IIIIIJ!P.II ~. •. •. Iii· Oren seven days aweek 8AM to 10 PM. 
__,..-.~ -To find the large nearest you, calll-800-800-8800. 
Advertised sale prices good through Saturday, September 30, 1995. 
~------------------------~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------~--­
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, August 24, 1995 
• COLLEGE fOOTBAll 
Spartan's Saban looks to bring "success" to MSU 
By JEFF HOLYFIELD 
Associated Press 

EAST LANSING, Mich. 
When Nick Saban talks about his coaching philosophy and goals, Michigan State's new football coach rarely uses the word "winning." 
Instead, he talks about "suc­cess." 
To be sure, winning is a big part of Saban's definition of success. But it also includes a heavy focus on academics for his players and the need for them to prepare for a life after football. 
And it includes uniting the university and the community behind the Spartans' football program, which has had four straight non-winning seasons while leading the Big Ten in prolonged public displays of in­fighting. 
But the controversy over George Perles' dual appoint­ment as coach and athletic di­rector is long gone and so is Perles after 12 seasons. 
The 43-year-old Saban, who served as defensive coordinator and secondary coach under Perles from 1983 to 1987, says he wants to return Michigan State to the heights it enjoyed under Perles. 
After all, the Spartans went to seven bowls under Perles and as recently as 1990 won a share of the Big Ten title. 
The peak under Perles came in 1987 when Michigan State won the Big Ten and racked up a 9-2-1 record, including a 20­17 Rose Bowl victory over USC. 
With Saban in charge of the defense, the Spartans had the No. 2 defense in the nation that season and were No. 1 against the run. 
Saban recalls the excitement and enthusiasm of that season and how it fired up the univer­sity and the community. 
"I think if you had all the people at the university work­ing together to have a success­ful program, you could expect to have that kind of success," Saban says. 
"I think that will allow the winning tradition to flourish again. That's what we're here to do." 
Cleveland Browns coach Bill Belichick predicts that Spartan fans will see the steady im­provement that marked Sa­ban's tenure as defensive co­ordinator for the NFL team. 
"There's no magic wand or anything now, that you wave it and you lead the league in de­fense," he says. 
Saban started out with the Browns in 1991 with one of the NFL's worst defenses. Last year Cleveland finished with the league's stingiest defense, allowing only 204 regular sea­son points. 
"Nick's very intelligent," Be­lichick says. "He puts his prior­ities in order and does an excel­lent job in his preparation. With 

-fl;
I . ---·
Biathlon 
\·-f-: 
·­
I •







& I···­
Beach Party 
Saturday, August 26 
10:30 AM at St. Joe Beach 
Biathlon Beach Part 
1/2 Mile Swim Starts at Noon & CanoL'S A vailabll• 2 Mile Run Sailin~ & Rowing Club Re~ister in Advance at Demonstration RL•cSports Scuba UL•monstration Varsit Beach ( ;,unes & Swimming Team & Individual Volleyball Tournament Non-Varsit (Ad\'. V-ll.111 Rt>~i,tr.ltion Rt>quirt'll) Team & Individual Hot Do~s & Soda on Sale 
It is not Necessary to Compete in the Biathlon to Take Part in the Beach Party' 
him, there are not a lot of things that slip through the cracks." 
Browns majority owner and president Art Modell describes Saban as "one of the best, if not the best defensive coordinators the Browns have ever had." 
"He's an outstanding teacher and a very, very focused man. Intense, extremely intense." 
Modell says of all the Browns assistant coaches last season, he thought Saban had the best prospect to become a head coach in the NFL. 
Saban acknowledges that if he wanted to be an NFL head coach, he would have been bet­ter off staying with the Browns. 
But he describes himself as "a college coach who happened to be in the NFL" and points out that he has spent 16 years in college coaching and just six in the pros. 




r-~§;W~ffit&[~i 
HOURS: Monc:tay · Thursday 7 am 10 10 ~ • Friday 7 am 10 1 pm • Salurday 9 am 10 7 pm • Sunday 9 am 10 5 pm 
21 Tans For 

NOTRE DAME 
277-1166 
-looii•-0..•­L.----!!~~-----~~----=~=====::..·~~-.J 

r-~~w-~-ffif&~l 
New Student Special 
$99 

6 MONTHS 
IIIUAND SQUAU 
NOTRE DAME 

277-1166 
w..-wn. dUWnu ,.,._,N.D. 
_ ...... -Oot .... ­
L---~~~-----2~:!_1!!----~====::::.::..".!'~ 

Thursday, August 24, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
"I need to work on my pass technique but I'm doing better 
Bennett Wisne 
right now. You just have to 

talks stalled 
• I 
continued from page 20 read and react more quickly to 
the pass." game because he will get worn Davie's new defensive sys­down." tem may be a big reason for 
Davie mentioned that defen­Bennett's rapid growth. s1ve tackle Darnell Smith, who "His defense is more about has been practicing well re­attacking and quickness, and cently, will back up Bennett those are my main attributes," along with Cliff Stroud. Bennett said. "I'm pretty 
Bennett's forte has been his quick off the ball and I'm ability to stop the run and that strong for my size (a 425 lbs. should bode well for him. bench press). So I can get Right now he just needs some great leverage. I fit in pretty more work on his pass tech­well with his scheme." nique. So when you read the papers 
"Right now my run tech­this season, don't be surprised nique is better than my pass to see Bennett's name. He'll technique," Bennett explained. be a player to watch. 


JAZZMAN'S NITE CLUB 
525 N. Hill Street 
PRESENTS: 
COLLEGE THURSDAYS 
Featuring: Two exciting bands: 
FIELDER BLOU JEWEL'S THE FUTURE 
Plus Lady Melo-"D"spinning your favorite Tootsie Roll, Booty call, Percolator, and Hip-hop music, to dance the night away!! 
. . $5.00 admission --~$3.00 admission (with student ID) 
For info on specials & entertainment call: 233-8505 Doors open: Mon-Sat 4pm. to .hm 

TUESDA~SEPTEMBER5TH 
7:00PM-9:00PM JOYCE CENTER 
The followong groups arc registered to participate in Activities Night. Ifyour club or organization is not listed, and you . would like 10 participate, please stop by the Student Activities Office (31 5 La Fortune) to rcgtster. The deadhne to regts­ter for Activtlles Nightts noon on Wednesday, August 30th. Call631-7308 for more mfonnatlon. 
AccountinK Auociation Adwork.a African-American Student Alliance, AfriClan Students' Asaociation AJDS MiniatrieaiAidJ. Assist American Cancer Society Arncr InstituteofAeronautic-.'Aatronourica American SoclctyofCivil Engineers A mer. Society of MechGnicat Engineen Amneaty International Anthropolo11y Club Anb American Club ArtJ/Lcncn Duaineu Society Aa ian American Aa10ciation BoiiPil"' Club Ballet Fotk.lorico Azul y Oro BallroomDance Club Baptlll Srudcnr Union Ucat Buddie• Beta Alpha Pai HiaBrothera/Biar: Sitten Bioloa~y Club Box ina Club Boya/Oirl• Club ofSt. Joseph County Camp Millhouse, Inc. Campus Alliance For Rape Elimination Campus Fcllow.ttip CamputMini•try Camput Miniatry-Communities NO Catholic Charities, Rainbow• Proaram Cent« for Batie Learnina Center for the Homelesil Center for Social Concern• (CSC) CSC Fall Break Service Projects CSCSemmara CSC Urban Plunac ChcSICiub Children of Mary Circle K lnternatiunal ClimbingClub ColleMC Democra11 Colleae Republican• Community Alliance to Serve Hi1panica ComputerClub Coro Primavera De Nuoatra Senora CuunuH for Fun &: Learninu Council for the Retarded Council on International Buaineu Develop. Cricket Club Cy<llln11Ciub Dlama ofMichiana Dome: Educational Talent Search Entrepreneur Club Equemian Club FcllowahipofCtuutian Athlete• Filipino American Student Oraanization 
Finance Club First Aid Services Team 
Flip Side FlyinaClub 
Folk Choir Foodaha.rc 
German Club 
Girl Scouts ofSinaPny; Sanda 
Goodwill ofMichiana 
Greek American Association 
GymnaarictClub 
Habitat for Humanity Handbell Choir Hawaii Club Helpful Under&radualeStudents(HUGS) Hiapanic American Organization Homelc11 ShelterChildren's Group Hospitality Proa~.!Undergrad Schools Comm. India Association ln1tituteof Blcctrical/Eiectronic Engineers International Student Qraanization lnveMtmcntClub 
Irish Accent 
Irish Outdoon 
Italian Club 
Japan Club 
Judo Club 
Juggler 
Junior Achievement ofMichiana.lnc. 
Knighta ofColumbus 
KnightM ofthe lmmaculu.ta 
Korean Club 
La Caaa de Amistad, Inc. 
Lacroue (Women'•) 
Lambda Alpha Society 
Lcaauc ofBiack Busines~a Student& 
League ofUnltcd Latin American Citizens 
Legal Services Proaram ofN. Indiana 
Lcaendicr'a Leaaue 
Litursioal Choir 
Logan Volunteers 
Mad.Mac111 
Management Club 
Marketing; Club 
Martial Ana In1titure 
Math Club 
Medieval Club 
Mental Health Aasoc. ofSt. Joe County 
Minority Pre-Modical Society 
Mi1hawak.a Advocacy Center 
Mock.Trial Association 
Model United Nationa 
Multicultural ExecutiveCouncil 
Muslim Students' Association 
NAACP 
National Hispanic Institute 
Native American Student Anociation 
Northca~tNeighborhood Council 
Nanhem IrclandAwarcne..Group 
continued from page 20 
there. 

So why not get him into a position where he can help this team and help himself." 
Wisne wasn't the only fresh­man to switch sides of the ball today. 
Coach Davie made it known that tight end John Cerasani would practice with the defen­sive line on Thursday. 
This will be the second time in two years that the lone tight end recruit has been moved. 
Last year Luke Petitgout was moved to offensive guard, thus leaving Pete Chryplewicz and Leon Wallace as the only scholarship tight ends. 
Jock 
continued from page 20 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
The Notre Dame Baseball team will be holding a manda­tory meeting on Friday, August 25 at 6 pm at Frank Eck Sta­dium for all those wishing to try out for the varsity baseball team. 
RecSports lntramurals -Rec­Sports is offering Interhall & Grad!FacJStaff Baseball, Inter­hall (Men's & Women's) & Grad/Fac/Staff Football, IH & Grad/Fac/Staff (Men's singles, women singles & mixed dou­bles) Tennis, Freshman Swim Meet and 16" & Co-Ree Softball. The entry dates are from Au­gust 23 to August 30 in the RecSports office. Please call RecSports (1-6100) for date and time for captains' meetings. Our new hotline is 1-8REC. 
Biathlon -RecSports will be sponsoring a biathlon on Saturday, August 26 at 10:30 
Student Activities, Rec Sports, and the Center for Social Concerns 

Operation ~mile Parkview Juvenile Center Physical Therapy Club Physics Club Porn Pan Squad Pre-Law Society Pre-Professional Society Pre-Vet Club Psychology Club RecSports Recyclin'lrish Reins ofLife IUght-To-Life Rowing Club Sailing Club St. Edward1a Hall Players St. Joseph's Health Center-Slice ofLife Scholastic Magazine Sex. Offense Services Shcnaniaan• Ski Team Society ofAutomotive Engineer• SocietyofHispanic Engineen SooictyofWomen Engineers South Bend Comm. School Corp.-Adult Ed. Student Advocate& for Inclusive Ministry Student Alumni Rchttions Group Student Art Forum Student Government Student Union Board Student Tutorial Education Prow-am Srudents Against Drunk Drivina Students Encouraging Religious Vocations Students for Environmental Action Supersiba Synchronized SwimClub TaeKwonDo Club Tau Epsilon Pi Teclutical Review TerraClub Toastmaater"t~~ International Trident Naval Society Troop NO Voicea ofFaith Gospel Choir VoileybaUCiub(Mcn'o) Water Polo Women'a Care Center Women's Litura;ical Choir Women'•Re:aource Center World HungerCoalition WorldTaeKwonDo Federation Wrestling Club WSND-FM WVFI-AM YWCA ofSt. Joseph County 
is a real shocker," . Kessler. a lawyer u1a.n"., who petitioned tion after the league reached · accord. Kessler also filed an antitrust lawsuit 
.. {!.ga the league. ···• e are terms from the 
as athletes. Hunter Smith is listed as an athlete. But, then again, it could just be a code word for punters on scholar­ship. 
AM. There will be individual or team competition in both varsi­ty and non-varsity divisions. There is no charge for this event. For more info call 1­6100. 
Scuba Course -There will be an information meeting for this course on Sunday, August 27 at 
1:00 in Rockne Rm 218. Completion uf course results in YMCA certification. For more info call1-6100. 
Shorin-Ryu Karate Semester long course that meets in Rockne 219 M/W 4:30­
6:30 starting Wednesday, September 14. You must regis­ter in advance and the fee is $15.00. A demonstration will be held on September 4 at 5:00 in Rm 219. Call 1-6100 for more info. 
Women's Safety and Self­Defense -Class meets for ten sessions on M/W from 6:30-7:45 in Rockne Rm 219. Class begins on Monday, September 4 and is open to students and staff. Fee is $9.00 and more info at 1-6100. 
Ballet -Semester long course that meets on Sundays from 1:00-3:00 in Rockne Rm 301. An informational meeting will be held on Sunday, September 3 at 1:00 in Rockne Rm 301. The fee is $25.00 and more info at 1-6100. 
June 21 agremeent that no one ever knew before, in many cases. Some I would characterize as bombshells." 
Kessler claimed the league was trying to include a con­tract clause that would bar player!' and teams from nego­tiating contracts downward -a common practice in the NFL that helps teams find room under the salary cap to bring in new players . 
''One thing we explained to everybody from the beginning was that certain loopholes and abuses in the salary cap had to be closed up," NBA deputy commissioner Russ Granik told the Times. 
Whether they like it or not, though, Wisne, John Cerasani and Autry Denson, whose posi­tions were also changed, have been dubbed athletes. 
Horseback Riding Lessons ­The information meeting for this course will be Thursday, September 7 at 6:00 in the Rolfs Aquatic Facility class­room. Class begins September 14 and more info at 1-6100. 
Athletic Commissioners -All hall Athletic Commissioners need to contact the RecSports office. We need names, phone numbers, and addresses. Please call1-5100. 
Run Jane Run -RecSports will be sponsoring two Step aerobics classes in support of Run Jane Run. Classes will take place on Thursday, August 24 at 4:00 & 5:30 in 301 Rockne. 
Challenge U Aerobics -Sign­ups started yesterday at the RecSports office. Interval aero­bics and Advanced aerobics will be offered. Call 1-5965 for fur­ther details. 
Broadcast Irish Football ­WVFI needs assistants to help broadcast ND football games. If interested call Ken Maverick at the station (1-6888) or at home (277-1753). 
Saint Mary's College 
Basketball -A general meeting 
will be held on Thursday, 
August 31 at 4:30 in Angela ·Athletic Facility. 
INDIANAUNIVERSITY 
SOUTH BEND 
CONTINmNGEDUCATION 
English as a Second Language 
INTENSIVE PROGRAM OF STUDY 
• 
Improve active use of written and spoken English 

• 
Understand verbal and non-verbal differences in communication between cultures 

• 
Develop and improve listening, speaking, reading and writing skills 

• 
Receive individualized attention 


August 28 through Dec. 8 
8:30 a.m.-12:30 p.m. Monday through Friday Call237-4261 for information 
-

~-------------------------------------------------------------­page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, August 24, 1995 
I I 
I 
I 



I • Shaq/Hakeem showdown set 
I 
By JOHN CURRAN 
Associated Press 
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. Forget the NBA Finals. This time it's a one-on-one, pay-for­view hype event. Oh, yes, and this time, there's a cool million on the line. 
Shaquille O'Neal of the Or­lando Magic and Hakeem Ola­juwon of the Houston Rockets, who went face to face in the NBA Finals swept by Houston, will play each other Sept. 30 at Trump Taj Mahal Casino Re­sort, it was announced Wednesday. 
The purse: $1 million. 
The event at the Trump Taj Majal Casino Resort will be part heavyweight prize fight, part skins game, part pickup game dubbed "War on the Floor." 
The NBA, which has no collective bargaining agree­ment with players and is in the midst of a lockout, is taking a hands-off approach, said deputy commissioner Russ Granik. 
"In view of the lockout, the NBA will not be involved in this event nor take steps to prevent it," he said. 
The format will be 10 rounds, or games, of 2 minutes apiece 
The Notre Dame Glee Clubut~gji, 
Announces ADDITIONS for the 1995-95 School Year 
cJoln one of the naflon's finest All­Male Choral Ensembles as we Celebrate BO years of Musical Excellence af Notre Dame 
Activities include: 
U.S. Tours during Fall &. spring Breaks EUROPEAN tour -Summer of /996 Four Major On-Campus Concerts each year 
D g 
F

Do you want to make $10 to $15 an 
I 

)Jl .f·..·. '··wi ·h·J··· .... . . .J!JlL., .k.;swn;mw .. 
•8

h &h 1eyouwor f
. our ave. unw 
h 
m

We are hiring for Nqt:.re Dame'$ return! 
8 
D 
A 
r 
8 

Be a part ofa Notre Dame 
Singing Tradition! 
AUDITIONS 

EXTENDED! 
CALL PROFESSOR DAN STOWE 
UR WAY. OR YOUR WAY. IT'S ALWAYS THE RIGHT WAY AT
-

7 SOUTH BEND LOCATIONS: SR 23 & IRONWOOD 3010 LINCOLN WAY W SCOTTSDALE MALL 4444 WESTERN AVE. NORTH VILLAGE MALL ]..]5 W. WASHINGTON 
135 EAST IRELAND 
under "winner's out" rules. That is, the player who scores gets the ball again at the top of the key. 
The winner of each round will get $100,000. In the event of a tied round, the money will roll over to the next round. 
Whoever takes the most rounds wins. A tie-breaker will decide the winner if there's a tie. 
At 7-foot, 255 pounds, the 11­year veteran Olajuwon would appear to be the underdog to 



The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Illustrators Daily Cartoonist Weekly Political Cartoonist 
Contact Garrett Gray@ x1786 for more information. 
~--------------------------------------~ 
. ~~~ 
631-9457 
the 7-1, 303-pound O'Neal. a three-year NBA veteran. 
But Las Vegas oddsmaker Jimmy Vaccaro called Olajuwon a 2 1/2-to-1 favorite. 
"He shoots better from the outside, he's got better moves inside and he's at least a 3-to-1 favorite in foul shooting," Vac­caro said. 
He said O'Neal's size advan­tage "means nothing." 
In the Finals, Olajuwon aver­aged 32.8 points and had 46 rebounds and eight blocks. 


Thursday, August 24, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 19 

FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLEIT 
1\IE'I TAll< ON TI-\E P\-\OI'{E. WHILE ll-lE'f DRI 'IE , TilE'! WATC\-\ T'l W\-1\l£ lt\E'< CP-.T, n-It:'( L\'5\Et-\ 10 MIJSIC W\-1\L£ 
1\IE'i WORK ... 
\ 
--...~A 
~-:;...,"4vL 
~Q , ~ 
"""-:~ 

DILBERT SCOIT ADAMS 
r----------------------u~---------------------­
eoe, YouR SELF-ESTEEM 
8 THERE'S AN OPENING 
IN OUR P~OCUREI"\ENT DEPARTMENT YOU'D 
51 Decent 53 Vegetarian purchase 55 TV premiere of 
11/4/53 57 Strike out 60 Clear 61 Scoreboard 
number 63Wall­(furniture 
purchase) 64"-Mio" 65 Leading 
Surrealist 66 Erupter of 
1832 87 Checks out 66Daze 89 Sando of the 
A's 
DOWN 
1 Chateaubriand hero 2 They have pull 3 Kitchen 

~ THEIR J"O{) I~ 10 PREVE.NT ~ US FROM GETTING THE ~ COf"\POTER~ WE WANT ~ I 




Comedy Night 
featuring... 

• 
Royale Watkins (with appearances on Russel Simmons' Def Comedy Jam) 

• 
Greer Barnes (with appearances on Fox's "In Living Color") 


Friday, August 25 8 pm $3 Washington Hall 
get your tickets at the LaFortune Info desk 631-8128 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
39 Shows 54 Pale's first 40 --T name 
41 Pointed tool 56 Stop 45 Wall Street sale 58 Rock's Turner 48Waken 
59 Bibliography 47 Some murals abbr. 49 Distinct styles 
82 1990 Robert 50 Dander Morse 52 Wading bird Broadway role 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 
20 

"It's your turn to empty the litter box." 
iMENU 
North CaJqn Cijieken. ~!J:ndwicb 
uiche Lorraine Stuffed Shells 
;m.$ 
''t;:~,Salnt Mary's 
Baked Ham "1'' Vegetable Stir Fry Parmesan Oven Fried Cod 

Have 
something to say? 
-
Use 


The Observer 
classifieds. 
• 
South Cajun Baked Cod Sweet & Sour Pork Chinese Noodles · 
1"'\IGHT If"\PROVE IF YOU 
GOT A J"OB 
CKU~~WUKU 
ACROSS 
1 Former Fox 
sitcom 4Eat, with "down" 
a Sir Henry -­(Hotspur) 13 Physical, e.g. 15 Hot-rod engine, for short 18 Loren's love 11 "99 Luftballons" singer 18 Door 111 Ring attire 20 Perplexity 22 TV premiere of 1/23/83 24 Suddenly goes crazy 28 Opposite 
27 Enjoy, as gossip 29 Newswoman Wertheimer 31 Maximum rating, often 32 Unnamed others 

33 Curvaceous leg 34 Actress-B. Davis 36 TV premiere of 1/16/81 
42 Phon. alphabet 
43Cowboy's sweetie 
44 Front end 

45 ABC countries 
and more 48 Boston and Kenilworth, e.g. 50 Rubik's Cube company 
~ ~ 
container 
4 Miserly 
5 Machinist's 
-nut 
&Drop 
7 Not outside 
8 Mine-sweeping apparatus 9 Overdramatize 
21 Plan, with "out" 23 Ultimate object 25 Serb or Czech 27 Biblical verb 
finale 28 "So that's what you mean!" 30 Show on a 
screen 33 More serious 35 TV premiere of 
9/21/93 37 Incidents 38 Eye shade? 

• t ? .. ~ ..... , ....... .,. ..... "' .. \ '. .. • ' 'I • 
• ' "" ' ' ~ l .. ,. t ) ., ' ' ' ) , .. ' " ..... -"' ~ \ "' ... • • • ' •. 
• 
I • 








SPORTS 
page 20 

Trading Places 
Irish frosh continue to be shuffled 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT Assistant Sports Editor 
With the loss of junior defensive tack­le Melvin Dansby, the Irish were enter­ing this Fall's practice with only two experienced defensive linemen and a handful of young and inexperienced but potential laden backups. 
One such player was freshman Jerry Wisne. 
At 6-7, 282 lbs. and a first team pick as a defensive lineman on the USA Today prep All-American team, Wisne was considered a sure bet to help out the defense this year. 
And then again, maybe not. 
"Wisne has gone to offense," defen­sive coordinator Bob Davie explained after practice Wednesday. 
"I think, to be honest, you try to do what's best for the player, and Jerry Wisne is going to be, in my estimation, a pro offensive lineman someday." 
Offensive line coach Joe Moore must be happy. Ever since Wisne signed with the Irish there had been rumors that Moore wanted him at offensive tackle. 
But with the signings of tackles Mike Rosenthal, Tim Ridder and John Wagner and the lack of depth at defen­sive line, conventional wisdom said that he would stay with the defense. 
It would have taken great offensive line potential for Wisne to move, and that appears to be the case. 
"I don't know if he would ever be a great defensive lineman," Davie contin­ued. "I don't know if he would ever truly be better than what we have 
see WISNE/ page 17 
The Observer/Kevon Klau 
Notre Dame freshman Jerry Wisne (71), a first-team USA Today first-team defensive lineman is now a member of the Irish offensive line. 
Surprising Bennett has finally found a home on the Irish defensive front 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT Assistant Sports Editor 
Pick up most sports sections or college football previews and they all say the same thing, that the Notre Dame football team's defense may not rebound from the loss of defensive tackle Melvin Dansby. But when Dansby went down the coaches asked sophomore linebacker Corey "Bennett to fill in, and they may have found a gem. 
"Corey Bennett really has been a surprise, a pleasant surprise to be honest," defen­sive coordinator Bob Davie said. 
When Bennett was recruited 
two years ago, he was listed as 
a safety. Reebok considered 
him as one of the top 24 high 
school players as he compiled 
195 tackles, 104 of them unas­
sisted, in ten games. It was as­
sumed that the Irish would 
move him to linebacker. But a 
safety moving to the defensive 
line?! 

"It's a surprise," Bennett 
admitted. "I never thought I'd play defensive line. I had 195 tackles my senior year, so I thought I'd be a linebacker, but it doesn't matter to me as long as I play and make a contribu­tion to the team." 
One of the main questions surrounding his move up to the defensive line was his weight. At the end of last year he weighed around only 220 lbs. Very light for a defensive line­man. The other two starters weigh over 260 lbs. Yet, once the move was made, Bennett made the commitment, and has bulked up to a solid 245 lbs. 
According to Davie, Bennett has what it takes. 
"He's a real square player. He plays with his pads real low and he's really hard to block for those big 6-4 and 6-5 guys. And the exciting thing is that he plays with great fundamen­tals. So (the switch) has worked out pretty well. 
"But we're smart enough to understand that he's 245 lbs. and that we'll have to alternate him and get him out of the 
see BENNETT I page 17 
1985 IAISM 
Irish sophomore Corey Bennett (95), 
shown here in the 1995 Blue/Gold 
Game, is set to start up front. 
The Observer/Rob Finch 
Football 
vs. Nonhwestern September 2, 1:30 EST 
Volleyball 

vs. Northwestern September 1, 8 p.m. vs. USC September 2, 8 p.m. 
Men's Soccer 

at St. Louis August 26 (Exhibition) 
.. 
Thursday, August, 24 1995 
• JocK STRIP 

Changes hurt, not help Irish 
Once in a while you just have to sit back and scratch your head. 
The defensive 
starter in the ,:....::..___::c:.::::.:=---..c....::.-'----, 
spring when Melvin Dansby went down with a neck injury. It was decimated by academic 
casu a It i e s Mike Norbut 
Thomas 
Knight and Sport Editior Alton Maiden. So why move one of the nation's best prep defensive players to offense? 6-7. 282-pound Jerry Wisne was recruited as a defensive lineman. He was listed second on the depth chart after three weeks of practice with his new team. With the way Bob Davie's defensive scheme works, he was bound to get time shuffling in with Paul Grasmanis, Renaldo Wynn and Corey Bennett. Heaven knows he'd play before Cliff Stroud and Darnell Smith. So why the move? "You try to do what's best for the player," defensive coordina­tor Bob Davie said. "And Jerry Wisne is going to be, in my esti­mation, a pro offensive lineman someday." But there's always that risk that can't be overlooked. It leaves the defensive line unsta­ble, and there's a chance Wisne may never adapt to a new pos­tion, which has happened to Notre Dame a few times in the past. Willie Clark is the most blatant example of this. Clark switched from the offen­sive to the defensive backfield almost daily in his tour of duty with the Irish. The coaching staff swore to make him a run­ning back. But he never found a home and, thus, never found the playing field. But he found playing time with the San Diego Chargers in nickel situations last year. They obvi­ously knew where to put him. Moving Dean Lytle from line­backer to fullback was an evil trick to play on the man. Leon Blunt was destined to be the jack of all trades but master of none before he left. Even Adrian Jarell spent more time punting the ball than he did catching it. And he definitely should have been doing more catching. His shank against Florida State in the waning sec­onds two years ago could have cost Notre Dame the game. Basically, the Irish have a poor track record lately of making strategic position moves. Wisne could be an All-American in three years. But he could make major con­tributions on defense tomorrow. Maybe they all should be listed 
see JOCK I page 17 

.. 
.. 
• Shaq and the Dream set to duel Women's Soccer 
see page 18 

vs. Providence September 2, 10 a.m. vs. St. John's September 3, Noon 
• Major League Baseball action 
Cross Country 
see page 12 at Ohio State September IS 
• New Spartan coach settling in see page 16 






