
~ 
Thursday, February 2, 1995 • Vol. XXVI 78 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DA~1E AND SAINT MARY'S 
SMC candidates square off in forum 

Editors Note-Turn to the Viewpoint sec­tion for .'iaint Mary's presidential and vice presidential candidate information and Observer endorsements. 
By LAURA FERGUSON Saint Mary's News Editor 
Saint Mary's/Notre Dame relations, multi­cultural diversity and renovations to Haggar College Center were among the most pressing issues discussed last night at the Student Body PresidentNice President of Academic Affairs forum. 
Tlw Sarah Sullivan-Hacquel Mitchell tick­et, the Paulette Haczkowski-Heather Durie ticket, and the Jen Paluszak-Leanne -:Jones ticket each seized the opportunity to share their platform ideas and major concerns with the student body gathered in the Hag­gar Parlor. 
In regards to Notre Dame/Saint Mary's relations, specifically between the women of both campuses, the ticket of Paluszak­.lonns suggnsted pairing residence halls and sharing activitins, including a speaker addmssing the relations issue as a solution. 
"It starts from day one when we are bom­barded with stereotypes and misconcep­tions," said Paluszak, "but we just need to get to know each other." Raczkowski-Durie commented that there are existing rela­tions but that they need to grow, perhaps through interhall sports with both the women's and men's halls at Notre Dame. 
The Sullivan/Mitchell ticket would aim to pool resources between the two schools and invite Notre Dame clubs to become more involved and to create more quality 1wents. 
"People don't feel like they are a commu­nity but we are all together," said Mitchell. "People just don't feel connected." 
All thme tickets agreed that multicultural diversity at Saint Mary's must be addreSSI~d. 
Aceording to the ticket of Paluszak-Jones a multicultural committee is working on the issue, but they have ideas including a Heritage Week to celebrate the many eth­nic traditions of the students at Saint Mary's. 
Haczkowski-Durie said that students 

The Observer/ Jake Peters Saint Mary's Student Body President candidates Racquel Mitchell, Paulette Raczkowski, Heather Durie, Jen Paluszak, and Leanne Jones debated in a pre-election forum last night. 
must realize they are part of a multicultur­a! society. 
"Even though it (Saint Mary's) doesn't feel multicultural there is a large ethnic di­versity inside that students may not share," said Raczkowski. To address this diversity her ticket proposed activities such as speakers and movies throughout the year. 
Sullivan-Mitchell noted that there are several ethnic clubs on campus but they have few people and resources. 
"I would let them (the ethnic clubs) know that they can come to BOG (the Board of Governance) for funding," said Mitchell. 
The possible renovation of Haggar College Center also was addressed in rela­tion to making it a true student social space. 
The ticket of Sullivan-Mitchell said they would like to see how much is accom­plished at the end of this year and then look at what options would be realistic. 
Raczkowski-Durie also mentioned the need to see what is done this year but they also said that once cable is installed in the Game Room the eating facility could be addressed. 
According to Paluszak-Jones people on campus wanted a small fast food vendor, but this option was not realistic. 
"We must increase traffic and cable is the first step," said Paluszak. "We are also planning activities to incorporate Haggar because if people are used to being here they will go more often" 
One organization currently located in Haggar, the Spes Unica Resource and Volunteer (SURV) center was mentioned in 
see FORUM I page 4 


GSC blasts new gay policy 
Group calls for recognition of 
GLND/SMC 
By DAVE TYLER News Editor 
The University of Notre Dame's Graduate Student Council, an arm of the Graduate Student Union voted last night to condemn the Office of Student Affairs' move to bar a gay and lesbian group from meeting on eampus. 
In a 21-0 vote (with two ab­stentions) the council passed a resolution to "strongly con­demn the University's action to expel Gays and Lesbians of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College (GLND/SMC) from cam­pus." 
The GSC resolution also calls upon the University to officially reeognize GLND/SMC as an "integral part of the Notre Dame community deserving of all rights and privileges afford other campus groups, including the right to meet on campus." 
John Blandford, eo-chair of GLND/SMC, believes that the vote will not go unheeded by university officials. 
"I would hope that the admin­istration starts to hear this as a call for a reasonable, rational, and compassionate approach towards gays and lesbians on campus," he said. 
The group was told last week that it was no longer allowed to use the University Counseling Center for meeting space. The decision reverses a nine year policy of tolerance toward the group. 
Blandford said the adminis­tration had known for years that GLND/SMC was holding meetings there, but University officials said they became of aware .of it after seeing an ad in the Sept. 8 issue of The Observer. 
This is not the first time that the Graduate Student Union has supported GLND/SMC. 
The group first called for offi­cial University recognition for GLND/SMC in 1993, and last year requested that sexual ori­entation be added to the Uni­versity Non-Discrimination Policy. 
"The campus needs to treat gays and lesbians with the same basic human decency we afford others," said GSU presi­dent Ed Wingenbach. 
The resolution does not bind University officials, but Bland-ford and Wingenbach think it will help to serve other pur­poses. 
"I think the administration will try to ignore this problem and hope it goes away. With GLND/SMC seeking outside publicity and support like this, that might get them (the Uni­versity) to respond," Wingen­bach said. 
"This resolution sends a mes­sage to the student population, that unlike administration, a large portion of students sup­port gays and lesbians. We've worked hard to address impor­tant issues and improve the in­tellectual life on campus. GLND/SMC is a part of all this debate," said Blandford. 
New Republic Editor Andrew Sullivan is scheduled to visit the campus today. a visit GLND/SMC was instrumental in organizing. 
Sullivan, who is gay, is expected to speak on gays and the Catholic Church. 
Last semester GLND/SMC helped to bring Ron Nyswaner, screen writer of the movie Philadelphia and civil rights attorney Peter Cicchino to Notre Dame to speak. 
Blandford said the group will appeal to the Faculty Senate and the Student Senate when those bodies meet next week. 

Ticket 
added to ballot 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE Assistant News Editor 
Jonathan Patrick and Dennis McCarthy, who were late in handing in their petition to ap­pear on the ballot for Student Body President and Vice Presi­dent, will appear on the ballot, it was voted last night by the Student Senate. 
Patrick and McCarthy, who are running for Student Body President and Vice President, respectively, handed in their petition to appear on the ballot on Sunday, two days after it was due on Friday, January 27 at 5 p.m. They were given ver­bal permission to run, however, by a member of the Elections Committee on Saturday night. 
"We sincerely want to serve. We were a little bit late because we wanted to be cer­tain about our decision before we made it," Patrick said in an appeal to the decision that he and McCarthy would not be allowed to appear on the ticket after a petition was submitted by members of other tickets running for Student Body President and Vice President. 
South Quad Senator Brian Foley asked McCarthy and Patrick, "In fairness to the other tickets, who were on time, expand upon your rea­sons for being late." 
McCarthy commented that he had been "pursuing another venture." He had been plan­ning on running with someone else who was from another 
see SENATE/ page 4 

Lucas named Editor-in-Chief 
By DAVE TYLER News Editor 
Junior John Lucas was elect­ed Editor-in-Chief of The Observer for the 1995-96 year by a vote of the newspaper's General Board. 
Lucas hails from Arlington Heights, Illinois and lives in St. Edward's Hall. He is a student in the College of Arts and Let­ters, pursuing a double major in English and American Stud­ies. 
"I feel very honored and privileged to be able to serve The Observer in such a capaci­ty." Lucas said. "The next year promises to be very exciting, and I'm looking forward to the challenge of the new position." 
A member of the Observer Staff since his freshman year, Lucas first served as a news writer, and assistant news edi­tor. As a sophomore he worked as Associate News Editor and this past year was The Ob­server's Managing Editor. 
In addition to his campus responsibilities, Lucas is a vice-president of the Indiana Collegiate Press Association and a member of the Society of Professional Journalists. 
Mindful of the traditions and 


John Lucas 

journalistic aspirations of The Observer through his years of work and numerous positions of leadership, Lucas said he expects to maintain the high standards of the paper while taking the opportunity to improve it. 
"I think the biggest challenge we face is improving the over­all quality of The Observer while also expanding coverage of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities," he said. 
The Editor-in-Chief is ulti­mately responsible for the day­to-day content and quality of The Observer, as well as coor­dinating its operations. 
Lucas will take over the posi­tion after spring break. 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, February 2, 1995 
• INSIDE COLUMN 



A legacy 
of 

silence 
Listen. Do you hear it? Nancy Dunn 
Do you hear the Assistant News Editor 

silence? 
The sound of silence, this is the legacy of Notre Dame. 
This week, the Administration announced that GLND/SMC was being kicked off-campus. The University charges that GLND/SMC has violated University policy by secretly holding meetings at the Counseling Center for nine years. 
Earlier this year, GLND/SMC stated that it would no longer push for official recognition as a club, and instead, would focus its energy on helping its members. 
They were not asking for recognition or approval. They only sought out a safe place in a world that is so hostile towards them. 
The center was a place where gays could come together and share their common experi­ences. They could confront their fears in an environment free of prejudice. 
So why has the University decided to steal their safety? Why have gays been sentenced to silence? 
Maybe GLND/SMC violated some regulation about advertising, I don't know, and frankly, I don't care. 
I do not pretend to be a theologian. I am not attempting to reverse the Catholic stance on homosexuality in a newspaper column. But I am concerned by the obvious hostility of the University towards homosexuals and the Administration's disregard for basic Christian values. 
I know the arguments, "It is a Catholic univer­sity what do you expect?" But such arguments seem more like excuses to me. A university has a responsibility to its students and to its self. 
In recent years, there has been a lot of debate centering on the Catholic nature of the University. Leaders claim that Notre Dame is unique because of its Catholic nature. 
But is the ability to validate oppression under 
the guise of an established religion a quality 
that should be celebrated as a virtue? 
Was GLND/SMC getting unfair advantages? I 
doubt it. Any other club with such a following 
and such a vision would have been recognized 
years ago. 
Once again, an issue has arisen and the 
University has decided that the best response is 
to ignore the needs of its community. 
As students, we have come to listen and to 
learn. So far, we have been treated to feeble 
attempts to defend the indefensible. 
The Administration has the luxury of burying 
problems, turning its back to situations it does 
not wish to address. 
What happens when we, its students, must 
live in the world the University has taught us to 
deny? 
Who will lead us then? Where will we find 
our voice? 
A university is a place for students. 
If we do not shatter the silence, who will? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer . 
• TOOAY'S STAFF 
News Production Nancy Dunn Kenya Johnson Ethan Hayward Heather Gibson Sports Viewpoint Tom Schlidt Michael O'Hara Accent 
Carolyn Wilkens Kristin Nannery Lab Tech Graphics 
Michael Hungeling Tom Roland 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. AJI reproduction rights are reserved. 

• WORlD AT AGLANCE 
Town packed with civilians erupts in fighting 
SAMASHKY, Russia lil~~;;;-;;;;.-;;;~----:-~--;,;:'rl Russia carries war sive force -in Chechnya. The Russian forces pummelled a beyond Grozny battle for Grozny also raged Chechen town packed with 1•••.•-~-• on unchecked. Russian doc-refugees Wednesday, only Russian troops launched an attack on tors treating soldiers trans-
Samashkv late Tuesday from three hours after residents mourn­sides, with tanks, helicopters, armored ported from the ruined 
personnel carriers and artillery. Russia fully loaded corpses onto also shelled the towns of Arshty and Chechen capital to Beslan said trucks from a fierce overnight 1--sa_m_u_t.---~--~-..., clashes had erupted south of assault. Many homes were the Sunzha River. The river reported destroyed and sever-1'-'-'~£'-"~:::z...:::..::=-~=::---l snakes through Grozny and al fires were visible from a has served as a dividing line Russian checkpoint two miles between Russians to the north and Chechens to the south.
from the center of Samashky, r-·~71E:~:;=5!i.;~~~:::;;;~J
a town largely untouched by Defense Ministry spokesman the war until this week. The Col. Andrei Antonov told the Russian attacks appear to be )~;:::~~:=.:::=e~ !TAR-Tass news agency on the bloodiest yet in a week Wednesday that Russian that has seen the war in ~~::~~~;:;i~~~:;;o-marines now controlled the Chechnya expand to more out­bridges over the river. lying areas of the secessionist !::::==!!!!!~-<:: Thousands of people have republic. It came amid mount­been killed and at least ing international criticism, 350,000 made refugees since including a U.S. State Russian troops entered Department report Wednesday Chechnya on Dec. 11 to quash that blasted Moscow for its self-proclaimed indepen­numerous human rights viola­
!h::;.a'!]!!m!LL _::-=;=--=--=-:---:-1 dence.
tions -including using exces-L----...uw. 
Hospitals pull radio station ads 
MADISON, Wis. 

A radio station will continue using a condom commer­cial featuring the sounds of a couple having sex even though two other advertisers are withholding their busi­ness in protest. Meriter Hospital and Physicians Plus, both of Madison, told WZEE-FM they would not purchase advertising time as long as the Sheik Condom commercial was aired. WZEE prepared an editorial Wednesday call­ing the hospitals' action "morally and ethically bank­rupt." "It's just beyond my comprehension that a health­care provider would take this position," said station gen­eral manager David Graupner. "If that ad keeps one per­son from getting AIDS or prevents one unwanted preg­nancy, it is worth it," he said. Mae Knowles, a spokes­woman for Meriter and Physicians Plus, said the opposi­tion does not interfere with their mission of providing quality health care. She said Meriter and Physicians Plus were not taking a stand against condoms or all condom ads, but rather against "the manner in which the ad is presented." The Sheik commercial has been aired since October and has drawn few listener complaints, said Graupner. 
Israel won't sign no-nukes pledge 
JERUSALEM 

Israel, which refuses to say whether it has nuclear weapons, won't sign the Nm;lear Non-Proliferation Treaty, Foreign Minister Shimon Peres said today. Egypt has threatened to block U.S. efforts to extend the treaty unless Israel joins it as well. If Israel signed the treaty, it would have to end its policy of nuclear ambiguity which has served as an effective deterrent against hostile nations such as Iraq and Iran, Peres said. "I see no rea­son why Israel should assure Iran, Iraq and Libya that they have nothing to worry about, that they can try and destroy Israel," he said. Israel has never publicly admit­ted having nuclear weapons. Peres said signing the treaty did not provide sufficient guarantees, noting that Iran and Iraq had both signed the treaty and still tried to build nuclear weapons. Egypt argues that some Middle East countries are developing non-conventional weapons because of Israel's alleged nuclear capability. The issue has strained relations between Israel and Egypt, the first Arab country to sign a peace treaty with the Jewish state in 1979. 

_ 

Economic forecast gauge up slightly 
WASHINGTON 

The government's main economic forecasting gauge rose slightly in December while construction spending ended the year on a high note, possibly due to unusually warm weather. Analysts said there may be mixed signals in the latest government data. But, as the Federal Reserve raised short-term interest rates for the seventh time in a year, they said they believe the economy is headed for a slowdown. The Commerce Department said Wednesday its Index of Leading Economic Indicators rose a mere 0.1 percent in December after climbing 0.3 per­cent the previous month. Three straight moves in the same direction are considered a good gauge of where the economy is headed. In another report, the Commerce Department said construction spending increased 1.1 percent in December and rose 8.7 percent for 1994, the biggest gain since an 18.3 percent rise in 1984. The Federal Reserve, as expected, boosted short-term interest rates a half percentage point. The previous six increases have had only limited impact, but analysts said the full effect of higher rates will be felt this year. 
'Seinfeld' Celebrates 100 episodes 
NEW YORK 

After you blow your nose, do you look down at your handkerchief? And is it just a stolen glance, or do you consider the scene at some length? In other words: Are you a glancer or a dweller? This isn't an issue actually raised on "Seinfeld" (at least, I don't think so). But a hundred others like it have been pondered the past five years on the sitcom, devoted to the rigorous probing of the meaningless. In an effort to bring order to a chaotic world, life on "Seinfeld" is organized into a series of impromptu principles ("A chef who doesn't wash is like a cop who steals -it's a cry for help"). Indeed, the sitcom that proudly professes to be "about nothing" last week hulled itself into first place in the season-to-date rank­ings, tied with -holy Toledo! -the powerhouse "Home Improvement." Tonight at 9 p.m. EST on NBC, "Seinfeld" observes its frrst 100 episodes with a one-hour retrospec­tive. The actual program wasn't available for review, but if you're a fan, you know just what to expect. Indeed, you can probably even sum it up in Seinfeld Code, such as: mulva; nip; puffy shirt; pick; and, of course, master of your domain. If you don't know what these mean (and especially if you do), watch tonight. 

Thursday, Feb. 2 

The Accu-Weatherl!> forecast for noon, Thursday, Feb. 2.
Accu-Weather10 forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1995 Accu-Weather, Inc. Pressuro 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via AsSOCIB/ed Pmss 
Atlanta 49 30 Dallas 69 39 New Orleans 56 34 
Battimore 50 30 Denver 55 43 New York 43 34 
Boston 40 34 Los Angeles 84 60 Philadelphia 46 -32
~~~~~u i'1 ~ dWL1 
Chicago 39 35 Miami 63 48 Phoenix 71 48
s~~';e~ T-~t~;,;;s Rain ~~~;;;~~ ·~~~-~:· ~~-:.. Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Columbus 31 28 Minneapolis 46 29 St. Louis 56 40 
Via Associated Press Graph1csNst C1995 Accu-Wealher, Inc. 
I­


Thursday, February 2, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
Instabilities plague Third World democracies 
also of the Department of Gov­ernment, offered similar ob­servations on his respective area of expertise. Francis, an authority on Latin America, was optimistic in acknowledg­ing that there are currently more functioning democracies in Latin America than ever before. However, he noted that this fact should be taken with caution as, historically, democ­racy has risen and fallen with relative frequency in the region. 
Although acknowledging that foreign investment is an impor­tant tool for nurturing develop­ing democracies, Francis stated that he would not be personally willing to invest in, say, Haiti. 
On the other hand, Africa, ac­cording to Father Patrick Gaffney of the Department of On the issue of South Africa, now, with full population par­Anthropology, has undergone Gaffney offered that, with the ticipation in the political pro­an incredible growth within a abolition of apartheid, there cess, things are finally the waycentury's time. According to has been an expansion rather they should be. 

Gaffney, who lived in Uganda, than an establishment of Ultimately, the panel was not

Africa is part of a "curious 

democracy in the area. discouraged despite the politi­paradox." The region is rela­Democracy always existed, cal instabilities present in many tively "unreported yet endlessly 
however he suggested that of their areas of study. On
fascinating." 
democracy, Dowty concluded that, "it will be the dominant form of government every­where." And, when asked what students should do to effect sit­uations presented Francis sim­

CROSS COUNTRY 
BEGINNER 
ply said, "Get the best possible appreciation of other cultures that you can get." That is exactly what the forum pro­vided. 
Have something to say? Use the Observer classifieds. 


BE APART OF NOTRE DAME'S 
VERSION OF MARCH MADNESS! 
APPLY TO BECOME A COMMISSIONER FOR 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
XXIV 

APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE IN THE SUB OFFICE 2ND FLOOR LAFORTUNE UNTIL MON., FEB. 6TH. 

"THE FINEST IN OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING" 
·FOUR AND FIVE BEDROOM TOWNHOMES ·TWO BATHROOMS ·SECURITY SYSTEMS ·KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE 
DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR, AND RANGE ·WASHER AND DRYER IN EACH UNIT ·GAS HEAT ·CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING ·PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT ·24-HOUR MAINTENANCE ·ONE MILE FROM THE NOTRE DAME 
CAMPUS 
NOW LEASING FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 




232-8256 



Andrew Sullivan 
Editor: The New Republic 
The Gay Catholic Paradox 
A Talk on Theology and Homosexuality 
Thursday, February 2, 7:30pm Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Graduate Theological Union 
American Studies Department 
This Event Has Been Sponsored By: Graduate Student Union The Student Union Board The Counseling Center Department of Theology Gender Studies Program Department of Sociology 
Department of Government and International Studies 
By TIMOTHY BOWERS 
News Writer 
Although the outlook for emerging democracies in the Third World is not good, faculty participants in last night's fo­rum on "Perspectives on Emerging Democracies" remain hopeful. 
The forum, hosted by The Notre Dame Council on Inter­national Business Development, exposed students to nations struggling to achieve and pre­serve democracy in Latin America, Africa. and the Middle East. 
"This will not be optimistic." That is how Professor Alan Dowty of the Department of Government began his lecture on the state of democracy in the Middle East. There have only been two withstanding democ­racies in the region since the end of World War II: Israel and Turkey. 
Democracy has not been allowed to thrive in the Middle East due partly to the region's Islamic roots, according to Dowty. The lack of separation between church and state ex­hausts most attempts at demo­cratic governing. The Islamic duty to obey the ruler tradi­tionally brings about forms of totalitarianism as the main po­litical structure (i.e. Iraq), said Dowty. 
Professor Michael Francis, 

page4 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, February 2, 1995 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
dorm and another quad but that venture "fell through at the last minute." 
According to Patrick and Mc­Carthy, who are both juniors from Flanner Hall, they had called a member of the Elec­tions Committee on Saturday night and asked for permission to have their names appear on the ballot. 
Patrick said that the Election Chairman "basically told me that it was o.k." Patrick and McCarthy were told 


Foru01 
continued from page 1 
terms of generating increased awareness and involvement of students. 
One of the ideas on the Raczkowski-Durie ticket was to develop a volunteer award to encourage more students to volunteer and to reward those who do. 
"There are a ton of places that need students' commit­ment and through BOG, SURV can spread the word," said Raczkowski. 
The Sullivan-Mitchell ticket said that a SURV representa­tive was already part of BOG but that increased communi­cation would be beneficial. Paluszak-Jones agreed that ongoing contact between BOG and SURV was the best way. 
Senior housing options and recognition of the Student Academic Council were also issues addressed at the forum. 
Elections will be held Friday during all meals at the Dining Hall. Off campus students may vote in the Off-campus student lounge in Madaleva Hall. 
Due to a family crisis, Sullivan did not attend last night's forum. 

to hand in their petition by file their petition on time and Monday. They turned in their that they did not receive writ­petition on Sunday between 4 ten permission to enter late. and 5, according to McCarthy. They had verbal permission, 
and they did not know that they 
By Sunday evening, the needed written permission be­Student Government consid­cause they were not advised by ered Patrick and McCarthy one the Elections Committee that of seven tickets for the office of they needed written permis­Student Body President and sion. Vice President. According to Andrew Alfers, 
However, Monday night, four Judicial Council president, the of the other tickets for Student Patrick-McCarthy ticket was Body President and Vice Presi­declared "ineligible for place­dent filed a petition against al­ment on the lowing the Patrick-McCarthy ballot." ticket to appear on the ballot In stating reasons why the because the petition was hand­Senate should vote to appeal ed in late. the decision of having their 
According to the Elections ticket declared ineligible,Committee, it was a technicality Patrick said, "We gain no that Patrick-McCarthy did not advantage at all by bringing in 
t 
FACULTY UPPER ROOM 
SERIES 
"FAITHAND PROFESSIONAL LIFE" 

An opportunity to reflect with colleagues and apoll8e81guests on the integration of spiritual concerns and professional challenges and demands. 
THURSDAY 
2 February 1995 
Faculty Dining Room ofthe South Dining Hall Dinner at 7:00p.m. -Discussion until9:00 p.m. 
Speaker James A. McAdams Professor of Government "Teaching the Children ofLight" 
Rquvqtions: Return t~ form received in the mail or 
•imply call Sharon HtJTUJdl at 1-8607 by Tuesday, Ja.IIU41Y 31. 


our petition (to appear on the ballot) late." 
Patrick told the Senate that "in the spirit of the election" it should allow the Patrick-Mc­Carthy ticket to appear on the ballot. 
Allowing the Patrick-McCarthy ticket to appear on the ballot is "in the students' best interest," according to Patrick, because "the more competition, the better." The best candidates possible should be offered to the student body, Patrick said in his appeal to the decision a yesterday's meeting. 
Had the Patrick-McCarthy ticket not appeared ·on the bal­lot, they could have been "write-in" candidates, accord­ing to Alfers, meaning their names would not appear on the ballot, but they could have been written in on the line desig­nated "other." 
The Senate voted that the Patrick-McCarthy ticket be al­lowed to appear on the ballot for Student Body President and Vice President. 
In response to this decision, McCarthy responded, "We're very happy to be included in the election." 
------------------------... 


cons~r spend.inq eiqht weeks of you.r summer work.Lnq wi.tS 
a. d.tsa.d.va.nta.ged. popuLation 

sponsored. &y Notre Da.me Aiu.mnt Ct:u&s across the country 
-a. woncterfut: Cearni.nq experience 
-$1500.00 SociaL Concerns SchoCarshi.p 
-5 TheoLogy cred.Lts 
5?Lpp{ication dead{ine: ![e6ruary 8tli 
information cwai!a&~ at the Center for SociaL Concerns 
Questlons: SM IJOUf KaC£ Rep or s... Cunni.nqfu1tn c&t Ult!. esc 

~~asyliv~tG& 
Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets 6t Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
Clocktower Square 51400 31 North 

(219)277-1291
South Bend, IN 46637 
Thinking of doing ayearof service? How about doing it 

for alifetime? 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 631-6385 

Coming Soon .... 

~----------------------------------------------------------------­Thursday, February 2, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Malloy honored with degree 
Sp<:cial 10 The Observer 
University of Notre Dame President Rev. Edward A. Mal­loy, C.S.C., will be the keynote speaker at the University of Pittsburgh's Honors Convoca­tion Feb. 28. Father Malloy will receive an honorary doctor of divinity degree at the cere­mony, which recognizes the outstanding accomplishments of University of Pittsburgh stu­dents, faculty, and alumni. 
Father Malloy is in his second live-year term as Notre Dame's president. A native of Washington, D.C., Malloy received his bachelor's and master's degree in theology in 1969 and was ordained in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart on campus in 1970. He earned his doctoral degree in Christian ethics from ·Vanderbilt University in 1975. 
Father Malloy serves on a number of committees related to community service, including the AmeriCorps and National Civilian Corps Advisory Board which was created by the Na­tional and Community Service Trust Act. He recently was ap­pointed to the Indiana Commis­sion on Community Service, which will oversee state imple­mentation of the national ser­vice initiative. Father Malloy also is a founding director of the Points of Light Foundation, a national initiative to promote community service, and is a member of the board of Cam­pus Contact, which promotes voluntarism among college and university students. 
Father Malloy is the immedi­ate past president of the Ameri­can Council on Education, the umbrella organization for U.S. colleges and universities, and he recently was selected for membership on the advisory council of presidents of the As­sociation of Governing Boards of Universities and Colleges. 

He also chairs the Commis­sion on Substance Abuse at Col­leges and Universities, an arm of the Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse (CASA) at Columbia University. The com­mission released a major report in June 1994 on alcohol abuse on college and university cam­puses. 
Father Malloy has been a member of the Notre Dame fac­ulty since 1974. He continues to teach in the department of theology and lives on campus in Sorin Hall, a student residence. 





~OBSERVER 
is now accepting applications for 

Managing Editor 

Applicants should have strong editorial and journalistic skills and be comfortable in a man­agement position. A basic understanding of newspaper production and experience with the Macintosh system is helpful. Any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student is encouraged to apply. 

Business Manager 

Any sophomore or junior business major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's interested in valu­able work experience is encouraged to apply. Applicants should have strong interpersonal and orga~izational skills, and a basic understanding ofaccounting principles. 
Please submit a 3 page personal statement ofintent and a resume to john Lucas by Wednesday, February 8 at 5:00p.m. For questions about the positions call Managing Editor john Lucas at 631-4541 or Business Manager joe Riley at 631-5313. 

Teen pregnancy activist named surgeon general 
By RON FOURNIER 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Dr. Henry Foster Jr., a medi­cal school leader known for fighting teen-age pregnancy in Tennessee, is President Clin­ton's choice for surgeon gen­eral, officials said Wednesday. 
Foster, 61, former acting president of a predominantly black medical school, will re­place Dr. Joycelyn Elders, an outspoken Arkansas pediatri­cian who was fired in Decem­ber after saying school children should be taught about mastur­bation. 
White House aides, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the announcement was sched­uled for Thursday. They said Foster would lead a national campaign to combat teen-age pregnancy. 
Foster was director of Meharry Medical College's "I Have A Future Program," aimed at delaying sexual activ­ity among teen-agers by build­ing their self-esteem, develop­ing job skills and teaching sex­ual responsibility, self-control and how to deal with conflicts in relationships. 
Foster, a Nashville obstetri­cian-gynecologist, founded the program seven years ago in two of the city's public housing developments with start-up money from the Carnegie Foundation. 
It has grown to serve about 150 youths each week. 
Clinton, in his State of the Union address, called teen-age pregnancy the nation's most serious social problem and urged parents and community leaders to join a national cam­paign "to make a difference." Aides say the campaign will in­volve few new initiatives, but Clinton hopes to get more peo­ple interested and involved in the issue. 
The nation's surgeon gener­als usually receive substantial attention for their remarks on health issues -from AIDS pre­vention to anti-smoking cru­sades. But the job actually is several rungs down in the De­partment of Human Services hierarchy, and holds little direct authority over health programs and policy. 
Like Elders and Clinton, Fos­ter has Arkansas ties. He was born in Pine Bluff and earned his -medical degree from the University of Arkansas. 
Foster, who also has served as medical school dean for Meharry, guided the school through a merger involving Meharry's teaching facility, Hubbard Hospital, with Metro General Hospital, Nashville's public hospital. He has served on the advisory board of Planned Parenthood of Middle Tennessee in Nashville. 
Friends and associated pre­dicted he won't be as provoca­tive as Elders. 
"One of his strengths is he is sensitive to a balanced ap­proach -to the concerns of a number of groups in our soci­ety even though he's a support­er of Planned Parenthood," said Shelby Tabeling, Planned Parenthood's associate execu­tive director in Nashville. 
Called "Hank" by friends and associates, Foster is described as a consensus-builder with a mellow charm and a long re­sume. 
"I don't think I've ever seen Hank Foster out of control, an­gry, anything like that," said Dr. Fredia Wadley, Tennessee's commissioner of health. 
Foster took a sabbatical in July from the school to become a health policy fellow at the As­sociation of Academic Health Centers in Washington. 
Bed 'n' Breakfast 
Registry 
Rooms in privata homes for: 
JPW, BLUE & GOLD, GRADUATION, FOOTBALL, FRESHMEN ORIENTATION 
and other spacial ND-SMC events 
(219)291·7153 

SOUTH PADRE ISLAND PANAMA CITY BEACH DAYTONA BEACH 
I ti :S'ihiJ iiI 
STEAMBOAT VAIL/BEAVER CREEK 
• PER PERSON OEP£NOING ON DESTINATION I BREAK DATES /LENGTH Of STAY 
t~8GG~.SIINCUA.S·E 
TOLL J1IMi INJOIWAT101i &111"5StR!VATIOIU 


Come to Late Night Olympics on Friday, February 3, and take part in the SLAM DUNK contest! 
Sign-ups will be taken Friday between 
8:00 PM and 10:30 PM in the 
RecSports office. Dunking will begin at 11:00 PM 
Rims will be at 8 ft. for women and 9 ft. for men. 




~-~ ----~~ 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, February 2, 1994 

BILL STILL DIALS 1-800-COLLECT TO CALL HIS PARENTS, EVEN THOUGH AS ACHILD HE WAS FORCED TO WEAR ADRESS. 


1-800-COLLECT ® 
Save The PeopleYou Call Up To 44%. 
Thursday, February 2, 1995 
The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Mideast summit begins 'coalition for peace' 
By EILEEN ALT POWELL 
Associated Press 
CAIRO 

The leaders of Israel, Jordan, Egypt and the Palestinians will meet for an unprecedented summit Thursday to find ways to break the stalemate in Mideast peace talks. 
The meeting in Cairo comes as talks between Israel and the PLO are mired in their worst crisis, overwhelmed by Islamic militants killing Israelis and Jewish settlers pushing Israel not to withdraw from occupied land. 
Israeli Foreign Minister Shi­mon Peres, in Cairo for talks with Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak, told reporters the meeting would be "a real at­tempt to create a coalition for peace and not let the coalition against peace stop it." 
Egyptian Foreign Minister Amr Moussa said the summit also would deal with the lsraeli-Syrian peace talks but that Syrian President Hafez Assad had not been invited. In a nod to Syria, Peres said "this coalition remains open for oth­ers who want to join the peace process." 
According to Israeli sources, the idea for the meeting came in phone conversations be­tween Mubarak and Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin, although Moussa said it was also discussed by him and Peres during this week's eco­nomic meeting in Davos, Switzerland. 
Mubarak has been in touch with Rabin, King Hussein of Jordan and Palestine Liberation Organization leader Yasser Arafat over the past few days to arrange the session, Moussa said. Officials in Jordan and the Gaza Strip confirmed King Hussein and Arafat would attend. 
Attacks on Israelis have killed 54 people since October, including 21 in a bombing Jan. 22. 

r------------------------,
Buy 1 Dinner, Get the 

1 1 
1 2nd Dinner for 1/2 price! 1 
IHave dinner at the Emporium. Order one entree at the regular I I price and get another entree of equal or lesser value for Half 1 1
IPrice! Choose from our Prime Rib, Steaks, Seafood, and lchicken selections. All entrees include salad, choice of I lvegetable or potato and freshly baked bread & butter. I I I 
: ONE HALF PRICE ENTREE PER COUPON : Expires February 9, 1995
L_____.:::__~~~ ~~~=~~ ~e~d_:2_:4~~~ 

IITWOTHUMBS UP FORTHE LION KING'!" 
IIIK!l&IBIRT 
"''VE NEVER SEEN 
ANYTHING LIKE IT! 
Hm\RL~ll\'fl\\1l\CITI~GAND .I\0\1~G lO\C ~~ 1TH\ KJf.,G'' ·IOililiGILIA'~'' .1:,\J\G \Iii RICA 
"MAJESTIC' 
G[MROL 'l\ :ILUD WITH 1~1'.\ PlA\ ..1.:~0 H[;Oiill rimr~·~,,~ \l\11\llfl. •;:~:!1\i 
''A ROYAL TREAT! ITS EXHILARATING! 
ITI AHL~llY l~TIRTAJNING 
Bl\SD Of ,1\UIIC fUN AND 
m·I'OPPI~G THRillS' 
rllfm\\lRI ROlliNG ITO\ I 



Cubans relu~tant to return 
By ANITA SNOW 
Associated Press 
PANAMA CITY 
As salsa music pulsed from speakers, 100 Cuban refugees today walked past a sign wish­ing them good luck and onto a plane headed for a place that belied the festive atmosphere ­the island they'd risked their lives to flee. 
The Cubans, accompanied by 50 U.S. soldiers, were the first of about 500 being returned to­day, the first day of a program to remove them from Panama. 
Since September, nearly 8,500 Cubans who fled their country on rafts and inner tubes have slept in military cots in camps surrounded by chain­link fences topped with razor wire. They were brought to Panama from the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, because of overcrowding there. But Panama only agreed to al­low the Cubans to stay until March 6. 
"It makes no sense to send us back to Cuba, even if it is to an American military base," 26­year-old Jorge Sanchez Guer­rero said Tuesday, standing outside the large green tent that was his home for the last five months. 
"It is a step backward." 
Despite the Cubans' unwill­ingness to leave, the chartered Boeing 727 was loaded today without incident. 
"Everything is going pretty smoothly," said U.S. Army Col. David Holland. "We haven't had any resistance today from the Cubans." 

Cuban refugees to leave Panama 
Aboui 1,250 U.S. troops have been flown into Panama to assist the 2,000 troops already in place with the transfer of Cuban refugees to the U.S. Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. 
Refugees by the numbers 
• 
Nearly 8,500 refugees were brought to Panama in tolal. 

• 
1,1711 obtained visas to the United States. 

• 
At least13 refugees have escaped from the camp. Of them 2 drowned during the attempt and 5 have been recaptured. 

• 
Ariot Dec. 7-Sieft 28 refugeesinjured and 2 dead. 


• 
72 were accepted by Spain. 

Refugee chronology 
• 
Sept. 6, 1994 ·First Cubans are transferred to Panama from Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. 

• 
Dec. 7-8 • Refugees riot, wounding 220 U.S. soldiers. 

• Feb. 1, 1995 -First 500 refugees to return to Guantanamo Bay. 

• 
March 6 • All Cuban refugees must be out of Panama by agreement between the U.S. and Panamanian governments. 


At Guantanamo, Marine Gen. Raymond Ayres said facilities have been improved substan­tially since the refugees were shipped out in September. He said 522 "hardback" tents with wooden floors have been built to accommodate the Cubans; each tent has space for 16 to 23 people. 


Saturday, February 4 8:30 -11:30 a.m. 12 7 Nieuwland 
Kaplan Teaching Session 11:30-12:30 p.m. 
Registration on site & in 101 O'Shaughnessy 
Another 1 ,400 tents are to be erected by April under a $30­35 million program, he said, adding that the military was prepared to run the refugee operation for a long time. 
"My planning is that we will do this indefinitely," Ayres said. 
The returning Cubans say the living conditions weren't the worst part of being at Guan­tanamo: it was the bitter expe­rience of being prisoners of a foreign power on the island they wanted so desperately to escape. 
"Politics is really dirty," Sanchez said. "And especially for us. It is like we are a ball that Clinton and Fidel (Castro) are playing with." 
President Clinton last August made a drastic shift from the longstanding U.S. policy of ac­cepting almost all Cuban refugees, declaring that illegal Cuban immigrants would no longer be welcome in the United States. 
Only 1,171 of the Cuban refugees interned in Panama have obtained U.S. visas -ei­ther because they were spon­sored by U.S. relatives or be­cause they were minors, or­phans or chronically ill. 
Spain took 72 refugees, and officials said Tuesday that Panama has granted resident visas to nearly 200 of the 300 Cubans who asked for them. 
U.S. Army engineers and anti­riot units tightened security at the refugee camps to prevent escapes and violence while transferring the Cubans to 
Carroll Auditorium Thursday, February 2 Friday, February 3 7:00 & 9:30 $2 


Earn $$ for Spring Break February ~ 1B!l 19 
Sign-Ups are: 

Mon-Fri: 10:00 a.m.-4:30p.m. Special Saturday 2/4: 10:00 a.m. -4:30 p.m. Catering Employment Office: Basement, South Dining Hall 
631-5449/8792 


page 8 The Observer • US NEWS Thursday, February 2, 1995 
'Subculture of violence' hits preschoolers, elderly 
Produced by the Notre Dame Student Players Produced by special arrangement with Samuel French, Inc. 
By RANDOLPH SCHMID 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Preschoolers and older mi­nority women are at increasing risk of being killed in an Amer­ica where murder rates hover near record levels, according to a new private analysis. 
Minority teen-agers and young men have the nation's highest homicide rate, accord­ing to a study released Wednesday by the independent Population Reference Bureau. 
The study, "Homicide in the United States: Who's At Risk," combed a half-century of data collected by the National Center for Health Statistics and the Federal Bureau of Investiga­tion. 
Among the findings were that murder rates were up signifi­cantly for elderly minority women and preschoolers. 
"We don't want to give the impression that every young child is at risk ... but this does raise the question of whether we need to be more protective of children," said Carol J. De Vita ofPRB. 
Some of the increase may be a result of more child abuse cases being reported, she said. "Now when a child dies it's more likely to be investigated as an abuse death." 
But the figures do show a trend, De Vita concluded. 
For minority children age 4 and under the 1990 murder rates were 8.9 homicides per 100,000 for boys and 8.6 for girls. Both have been climbing steadily since 1950 when they were 2.4 for both sexes. 
For white youngsters the rates climbed from 1.0 to 2. 7 
~
Ad 
for boys and from 1.2 to 2.1 for girls. 
The report also found that "older nonwhite women, par­ticularly those ages 7 5 and older ... have become much more vulnerable to the risk of being killed." 
For these women, the 1990 murder rate of 11.7 per 100,000 was sharply higher than that of a decade earlier when it was 6.7. 
De Vita said the increasing independence of older people may be a factpr, placing them more at risk, especially when they live by themselves in neighborhoods that have seen an increase in crime. 
Overall, De Vita said the study found that America is maintain­ing a "subculture of violence." 
There is a perception that there has been a sharp increase in crime in recent years, yet the current murder rate of 10.0 per 100,000 people is not so differ­ent from the 9.8 recorded in 1933, the first year for which reliable statistics are available, she said. 
In between there was a pe­riod of lower homicide rates, held down by World War II and the boom of the 1950s, with murders increasing again in the early 1960s. 
The 1950s were an unusual time, she said, suggesting that the period's economic growth and the settling back to home life after the war held down homicides. 
The highest homicide rate was in 1980, when there were 
10.7 homicides per 100,000. 
Now, murder among teen-· agers is at record levels, De Vita said. The growth in drugs and drug sales are a major rea-

I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
II __ Bring In Thi~ Ad 
--.u



liiiiiii----------­
Give From ,.ha Heart And Save ALila! 
Earn 




82000 Cash 
for your We-saving blood plasma donation Uyou present your lobe Dame I.D. 

(\line To: ,-\ml'rio.:an Bi<Hlll'dll.d Cl'nt,·r :; I'i Lin,·llhl\\ ,\\ \\'l''t • South Lknd OPEN: Mon,Lt,-friJ.I\' 9-6•S,llurd.t\ H-'5 LaSatle 
Licensed By the Federal Government 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 

THE POSSIBLE EXCEPTION COULD BE 
WHAT YOU LEARNED ON SPRING BREAK. 
You've covered just about everything in four years. ~··' .
: . self directed-it can move as far and as fast as you Finally you get to put all your smarts to practical use. '(lfM; want it to. At Coopers & Lybrand you'll find the Coopers fr Lybrand is the place to do that. The environ-right fit. You'll be part of an organization that works with ment is open and friendly. Here people work together over 400 companies in the Fortune 1000. Not to mention as a team, exchanging ideas as well as expertise. Yet, more top international companies than any other Big Six individual achievement is not Firm. You could learn a lot here.
Coopers ,coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.
only encouraged but rewarded. Chances are, you could probably
&Lybrand Ia protesstonol sef\'tces 1\rm
Which means your career is teach us a thing or two as well. 
Directed by Stephen Susco 

.$3.00 Reserved Seating 
Tickets on sale now at the LaFortune Information Desk 
February 2-4, 1995 
Washington Hall Mainstage 
8:10pm 
••NOTE: play contains profanity and harsh language 
in violent delinquent acts. 

The Population Reference Bu­reau report found that while minorities have a much higher murder rate than whites, the gap has been narrowing in re­cent years. 
For men the murder rate for whites was 4.0 in 1969-71 com­pared to 76.4 for non-whites. By 1989-91 the rates were 8.8 for whites and 53.7 for minori­ties. For white women, the rate in 1969-71 was 2.2 compared with 14.5 for non-whites. By 1989-91, the rates were 2.8 and 11.3. 
The study also found that while people in their 20s still have the highest murder rates, in the last five years the peak has shifted from the late 20s to the early 20s. 
The District of Columbia topped the list at 66.5 murders per 100,000 residents. The most dangerous state was Louisiana with a rate of 18.5, while Iowa and North Dakota recorded just 1. 9 killings per 100,000. 
Source: Population Resource Bureau 
son, she speculated. 

Meanwhile, the Justice De­partment released a new study that shows children who grow up in violent families are twice as likely to commit violent acts during adolescence than chil­dren who grow up in families 
AP without a history of violence. 
The study showed that 38 percent of adolescents from non-violent families reported involvement in violent delin­quent acts, while 78 percent of adolescents exposed to family violence reported involvement 


David Mamet's American Buffalo 

VIEWPOINT 

February 2, 1995 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 

1994-95 General Board ~S5SST--.. 
Editor-in-Chief 

MINIMUM WAGE,
Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manage• 

NOT AGE-.. 
John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager...................... Ryan MaylaY'er Spans Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krisra Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor ....................... Scon Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director...............Tom Lillig S;Unt Mary's Editor............... Eiizabeth Regan Controller..,,................................. Kristen Martina 
The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the adminiStra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editot, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commemaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.J@nd.edu General1nfonnation 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
• 
Observer endorses 
~tillivilll-~it~llell 
It was Saint Mary's politics as usual at last night's 
Open Forum for Student Body President and Vice­
President candidates-ideas were tossed around, 
but the issues central to these ideas were often 
ignored. 
The ticket of Sarah Sullivan and Racquel Mitchell. 
however, seemed most prepared to get to the heart 
of problems concerning Saint Mary's students. 
Although they were unable to lay these issues out in 
their initial platform, Mitchell's ability to recognize 
the real obstacles facing Saint Mary's students and 
her willingness to address them at the forum was 
admirable. 
Despite the absence of her running mate Sullivan. 
who was called away due to a family crisis, Mitchell 
exhibited tremendous poise and an understanding of 
issues that were lacking in her opponents. 
Rather than dwelling on important but typical 
complaints about Notre Dame/Saint Mary's relations 
and student apathy, Mitchell pinpointed specific aca­
demic and multicultural problems that needed to be 
addressed. 
While they haven't been active in traditional stu­
dent government, both hold leadership positions in 
other areas, and could provide a fresh perspective to 
the job. They seem interested in making student 
government innovative and personal. 
Although the Jen Paluszak and Leanne Jones tick­
et had many ideas, they fit too typically into the 
mold of the average student government leader. 
Their experience merits consideration, but it also 
works against them. They may understand the sys­
tem, but they offer little in the way of originality. 
The Paulette Raczkowski and Heather Durie ticket, 
although overflowing with enthusiasm, seemed to 
lack both vision and voice. The ticket offers many 
smaller ideas that could easily be implemented by 
any administration, and they were unable to convey 
the insight to understand issues on a larger scale. 
Although concerned with their platform's empha­
sis on minor issues, The Observer endorses the 
Sullivan/Mitchell ticket on the strength of their 
understanding of the issues and willingness to bring 
a different point of view to the offices of President 
and Vice-President. 
• 000NESBURY 


It's time to drop the ROTC issue. 
All the acrimony that has gone appropriate overlap between the quite a potential. SHE is a gradu­back and forth in the Observer military and the university. ate student with more on her these days reminds me of a song. Undergraduates walking around mind than just research. 
dressed for triple-canopy jungle Together, they make quite a cou­
Men have feelings too... operations just look silly. par­ple -although he is playing 'out 
May I share mine with you? ticularly when sitting in the dining of position,' if you get my drift­
hall eating little plates of lime and I know you do! 
This verse is especially apt, jello. "A certain member of the col­owing to the series of talks cur­That is pretty much the extent of lege of Arts and Letters has been rently being given on my "attack" on the ROTC, and by on a quite a ride lately-word is "Masculinity in the 1990s" in the extension the military, Rod Lekey, that a grant from the MacArthur Hesburgh auditorium. The charge Peter Ferraro, "half a dozen Foundation is in the air. What a of uncommunicativeness is mis­POWS," and the Tomb of the shame that the department chair placed, however, when directed at Unknown Soldier. Not that that squashed the person's chance the ND student body. I for one mattered much. I understand that with a well-placed call and a vile have more communication than I my column served as a blank slate aspersion or two. But that's the know what to do with. Peter J. on which veterans of the post­way the game runs here in the big Ferraro, a Marine officer, last Vietnam 
time, kids! week offered to have his eight military Geniuses and year-old son come down to the could etch non-team play­Observer to beat me up. Per­t h e i r ers need not ap­sonally, I think I could probably resentment ply!
Josh

take him, but I admit it would be a on. That is "There are a close-run thing. Later that week, why so few couples the torrent of dialog continued many let­around campus
Ozersky

when David McMahon announced ters the that you that my "priceless gems of wit" Observer ALWAYS see and "dripping words of sarcasm" receives together. They are "like knives to someone like ran along seem to be Rod [Lekey]." Rod Lekey, not one the lines of "Ozersky, people like havin' the best of times -little do to take a knife lying down, has re­you call us baby-killers, but... " they know that at least four secret cently responded with a letter Personally, I am unconvinced by affairs are going on -you figure printed, if I am not mistaken, Zahm Hall residents who assure out the math! Manalive! Did somewhere on this very page. me of their willingness to die for someone say "beard"? 
All this communication is mak­freedom, but I certainly don't *** ing my head spin. How have I mean to offend actual veterans, Fans of my stylistic ex­become such an epicenter of and have said so in numerous pri­travaganzas will want to be sure attention? Usually, I can't even vate e-mail conversations. So let's to attend Mark Leyner's reading get the pizza lady to serve me. drop this whole ROTC thing this Sunday. Like yours truly. But there is something in a hot already. I'm beginning to feel too Leyner is a postmodern wun­issue that needs a place to nestle. masculine-in a 90s sense, of derkind from Hoboken, NJ, but For what it is worth: I never course. who puts me in the dark dark attacked ROTC on campus. I *** shade when it comes to writing never attacked ROTC. I suggested My friend Mr. Snitch has been crazy-man-crazy psychedelic that teenagers walking around on hiding behind doors again, and prose. He is a heap-big brilliant a college campus wearing forest what he's heard was enough to stylist, and everyone would do camouflage had an element of make your hair stand on end! (If well to check him out. dress-up day to it, and I still think you have some, that is.) Here is Josh Ozersky is a graduate stu­so. The reserve officer's dress just a sample of what he has been dent in history. He can be reached uniform is based on civilian telling me. over e-mail at: joshua. a. ozer­clothes; hence, it expresses an "HE is a football player with sky.l@nd. edu 
GARRY TRUDEAU • QUOTE OF THE DAY 
... 81fTReMEMBeR., THEONt.Y '301AJHATS PIPFt:l?aVCE f!E7lAI!ZNUS19A 7HE!lt:AL­H~ ~/..AR'I l11FF£!R&NT!At-. U/17H 7H& OTHIJR 7HAN 7HAT, I'M JIETARE­JX)RKf frJR:J/3:R,MUCHUK£ ~ ~fJEl){JR/6? 
I ''Forevery man who lives without freedom, the rest of us must face the guilt." 
-Lillian Hellman 



VIEWPOINT
page 10 February 2, 1995 




Candidates present platforms 

Paluszak-Jones 

W
e, Jennifer Sue • Adopt-A-Nun shrubbery or large trees with­Paluszak and Leanne • Junior Class Board out sufficient lighting. To pre­Patrice Jones, are run­Our platform consists of issues vent any unwanted harm to ning for Student Body President that involve numerous areas of members of our community and and Vice-President. We have our campus: visitors, we would like to have chosen to campaign for these • "Peace Talks" is our way of more lighting installed. positions because we are eager bringing together the women of • For those who work diligently to work with the entire campus Notre Dame and Saint Mary's and maintain an 'A' average in to make 1995-1996 a successful and confronting the issues that a class, it would be a reward to year. Success will be measured separate as well as unite us. be exempt from the final exam­by the challenge we offer our­Residence halls from both ination. Our proposal would be selves: to thrive academically, schools will plan activities considered by the Student grow spiritually, and broaden together; they will attempt to Academic Council and profes­socially. We are highly motivat­acknowledge, contemplate, and sors. We feel if this were imple­ed individuals as well as active exercise a strategy to initiate mented, the motivation to keep members of the Saint Mary's the elimination of the barriers up with daily assignments and Notre Dame communities. between campuses. would increase and the stu­Our qualifications include the • Be it a well-known band or a dents would strive for compre­following: successful woman in the public hension in their specific area of PALUSZAK: eye, we intend to bring the infa­study. • SMC Class of '96 President mous to Saint Mary's. • The annual open forum will • Board of Governance member • Currently, Haggar College also be held to discuss activities • Marketing Club Center is preparing for the and issues regarding, BOG, • Volunteers in Support of installation of cable television. SAC, SAB, and RHA. Admission (VISA) -VISA The renovation process will • We seek an interest in • Lector continue one step at a time. Computer Service improve­• Notre Dame Porn Pon Squad· The snack bar is a main inter­ments. More workshops avail­• Multicultural Committee est for alterations in the next able to learn multiple programs JONES school year. and additional training offered • SMC Holy Cross Hall President • Saint Mary's has a beautiful in troubleshooting. • Residence Hall Association campus, but it could be a • Yes, the Multicultural Affairs member potential enemy at night. There Committee arranges functions • Phone-a-thon are a few traveled spots on for the awareness of a multicul­• Eucharistic Minister campus that are surrounded by tural population; however, we 
Leanne Jones and Jen Paluszak 
would like to expand awareness by celebrating "Ethnic Week: Expression of One Diverse Campus". By setting aside this week, students, faculty and administrators could partic­ipate in sharing their heritage with others. 
• Need Help? We want to create an addition to the Wellness Center called Peer Counseling. From tragedies to life's daily stresses, all topics could be cov­ered. If the peer could aid in a resolution, we encourage it. If not, the counselor wilt refer the female to a higher authority. All counselors would be trained to handle conflicts and crisis situ­ations and ALL information would be held strictly confiden­tial. 
• Want to learn more about sports? Perhaps we could receive Physical Education credit for a sports class. Not only would fundamentals be taught, but the elements of training, logic, preparation, psychology, teamwork and sportsmanship. We feel that we are qualified for these positions. We are con­fident in our leadership abilities and are certain that they will add to the unique spirit of Saint Mary's College. 



Sullivan-Mitchell 

W
e are offering the • Seminar on Saint Mary's and make volunteer efforts. Sullivan-Mitchell history Lack of transportation is usual­Commitment to the • New steps for the step aero­ly the obstacle which prevents Saint Mary's community. This bics classes them from doing so. commitment means we are The first four proposals will A weekly newsletter contain­prepared and willing to provide contribute to the networking ing all campus events that stu­active leadership. among the students, faculty, dents could receive every week We hope to see the students, administration, and surround­would be beneficial. Rather administration, and surround­ing communities. than each club or organization ing communities of Saint Foremost, we believe that individually spending time and Mary's form a network through student access to alumna infor­money generating flyers for which we all can prosper. We mation via the internet system publication, a newsletter would realize that to achieve this goal would allow students to easily compile all of them. The effi­we must take an active role in and conveniently obtain valu­ciency of event or meeting time initiating and implementing the able information about gradu­publication would be increased, changes within the Saint ate schools and job opportuni­as well as reduction of paper Mary's community in order to ties through interaction with waste. build this network. alumna. We propose to offer a one Our proposals are as follows: We want to provide a college credit seminar about the histo­• Student access to Alumna vehicle that can be used for ry of Saint Mary's. Since most information via the internet participation of clubs and orga­students do not know about the 
• 
Transportation vehicles for nizations with volunteer pro­rich history of the college, we volunteering grams in the South Bend com­feel this to be the perfect 

• 
Weekly newsletter of all munity. It is evident that many means of allowing students an 


campus events women at Saint Mary's want to open forum including both fac­contribute community service ulty and administration who 
Racquel Mitchell 

would lead the course discus­sions. This allows students the opportunity to collaborate with one another and appreciate the past, present and future of Saint Mary's College. 
Finally, we propose purchas­ing new steps for the step aero­bic classes. A large percentage of women at Saint Mary's attend aerobics. In order to obtain the maximum benefits of a workout, good equipment is a necessity. 
We hope that the student body chooses to make the Sullivan-Mitchell commitment possible. We'll devote ourselves to the duties this role entails. Vote Sullivan-Mitchell Commitment on Friday, February 3. 



Raczkowski-Durie 

Our goals reflective atmosphere, we can
''promising to make it are to promote 

happen through Saint Mary's through active explore and renew our beliefs. 
increased involve­involvement. Our ideas include Besides strengthening our ment within the Saint Mary's an All Campus Formal to serve relations within the Saint community." as a fund-raiser. We believe Mary's community, we would 
this event will be an enjoyable like to expand the ties between 
This is the key to our, cam­way for Saint Mary's to contin­Saint Mary's and Notre Dame in paign for Student Body ue helping those in need. a relaxed atmosphere, such as President and Vice-President. interhall activities like sporting We are both currently active in Another way to further this events. the Junior Class as officers for sense of community is through Other goals of our campaign the Class of 1996. a Saint Mary's Volunteering include a "Safe Walk" system to 
Award. This program would be provide an alternative to the 
Being involved with the designed to recognize those escort of students by Security Science Department as with outstanding commitment cars. Biochemistry and Chemistry to service. The efforts recog­majors, we belong to the Saint nized will range from the work Another idea we have is to Mary's Affiliate of the American of an individual to that of a create an "Auto Mechanics Chemical Society, with Heather group. Crash Course" to teach basic 
serving as Vice-President. We hope to enhance the spiri­car maintenance and skills. 
As an orientation counselor tual development of Saint Through the use of the and a member of Toastmasters, Mary's students with an All Clubhouse, we want to offer a we enjoy being active on cam­Campus Retreat. By bringing night of Karaoke. In addition, pus the community together in a we want to increase seating at and ideas we would like to con­tinue those currently being dis­cussed and developed. These include Haggar renovation, career and major workshops, recycling and Multicultural awareness. We also plan to 
We appreciate this opportuni­ty to express our thoughts and goals and we hope that they convey our desire to represent the Saint Mary's Student Body as their President and Vice­President. 

----~---.--~-------------~------·-~----------·---~ -------~~-,--~~--~­



ACCENT 
Thursday, February 2, 1995 page 11 
Behind the scenes at 

By PATTI CARSON Assistant Accent Editor 
What we see is three solid hours of entertainment. We see funny guys mak­ing us laugh at ourselves. We listen to a talentHd band and we watch some great dancers. 
What we don't see is the time that goes into making a production like the Keenan Heview. We don't see the guys raeking their brains to come up with funny skits. We don't see the band or the dancers praeticing. We don't hear the aetors memorizing their lines and we never see the makeup artists or the stage erew working. 
Chanees are, as an audience, we don't give a lot of thought to the pre-perfor­manee. We only see the end result-an entertaining evening. But for weeks, even months before the Keenan Revue, dorm residents are working diligently on what producer AI Stashis calls "our (Keenan's) gift to the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities." 
The Hevue, a variety show, pokes fun at the campuses, though not in a mali­cious way, aceording to Stashis. "It's not our aim to hurt the feelings of any particular group. In a sense, we are equal opportunity offenders," he said. 
"We also try to feature some legiti­mate talent. We have a Revue band, a pianist, and some daneers and singers performing," director Pete Van De North said. 
As of last Thursday, 120 skits were signed to audition. Out of those 120 skits, 25 were then selected by the 15 member voting staff. Keenan Hector Brother Bonaventure Scully and his counsel then mHt to view the quality and content of the skits during rehearsals on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday. 
"Wp, make a conscious effort to avoid 1:haracter assassination, overt sexual overtones (because they are juvenile), and crudeness", according to Brother Scully. 
The whole idea for the Revue originat­ed 19 years ago with Father Richard Conyers, C.S.C. The Revue started as a gift to the University in the winter, which is often bleak in South Bend, according to Scully. It is an entertain­ing, non-alcoholic event, he added. 
It started in the basement of Keenan and then it was moved to Washington llall. The audience grew larger so the performance was moved to the bigger {)'Laughlin Auditorium on the Saint 


e 
eenan 
evue 

Mary's campus. 
"We're able to hold the production in O'Laughlin because they don't charge us the full fee," Keenan co-president Luke Woods said. "Not only is it a quality the­ater, but it also has a cooperative staff," Woods added. 
A cooperative staff is almost mandato­ry since there are many Keenan Residents working with it. "Well over 200 out of 300 Keenan residents take part in the Revue, including the stage crew, ushers, performers, staff, band, and dancers," co-president Andrew Parial said. 
"One of the greatest things about the Revue is that so many Keenan residents want to get involved," Stashis said. 
"Backstage there are guys in black clothes who must get the scenery set quickly between skits," said Van De North. "One skit may require a desk and a chalkboard, but immediately fol­lowing is a skit that involves a couch,-so the stage crew is always moving," he added. 
There is also a stage director behind the scenes calling out directions. Hesidents also stand in spot booths, keeping an eye on the crowd. There are makeup artists in the dressing rooms putting on the eyeliner and "all that other stuff," Stashis said. Those inter­viewed expressed thankfulness that they "do not have to go through that makeup 
' It's not our aim to hurt the 
feelings of any particular group. In a sense, we are equal opportunity offenders.' 
AI Stashis 
ritual daily." 
Such a big production must take a long time to plan, right? "The produc­tion side begins in May. It's a yearlong thing," according to Stashis. Fundraising for the Revue must begin immediately and many residents begin their work for the Hevue in September, according to Stashis. 
As far as skits go, however, the Revue is somewhat of a "last minute opera­tion," according to Parial. "But the short time frame of a week and a half for skits brings forth great participation from dorm members," he added. 


Don't all those "last minute" details make the Revue staff a little nervous? Last year on the first night of auditions, the staff was nervous after reviewing the skits. So they quickly wrote some skits that night. "Those skits turned out to be some of the best ones" as far as audience satisfaction, according to Paria!. 
"We were up until late hours trying to come up with ideas that someone would laugh at," he added. 
And people did laugh, which is obvious by the numbers in line to get tickets last Thursday. "We had to turn away between 200 and 300 Notre Dame stu­dents and at least 200 Saint Mary's stu­dents. We hated to do that, but at least it shows the popularity of the show," Stashis said. 
The Revue staff is trying to add to the popularity of the show this year by "encouraging skits that are funny, cre­ative, and intelligent," Van De North said. "We don't encourage anything crass or vulgar," he added. 
To aid Brother Scully in his content review of the skits, he invites three women to sit in on rehearsals to "do a review of The Revue." 
"Keenan is conscious of women's rights so we need to get a woman's per­spective on the show before it is actually performed," according to Scully. 
The Revue staff is grateful for the sup­port of alumni, family, faculty, and friends. "Donations from our parents, alumni, and the Hall Presidents Council (HPC) make our production possible,". Stashis said. "We also appreciate the support of dorms and students on cam­pus who sponsor ads in the program," he added. 
Stashis said that Keenan residents do all of their own fundraising , which includes the sales of their Keenan T­shirts. 
The staff is also grateful for coopera­tive staff members at The Copy Shop. "We have a lot of copying to do in a short time. And miraculously, it always gets done." 
Last, but certainly not least, the dorm is grateful to its residents and friends involved in the Revue. "Students in the Revue are good about being at rehearsals when scheduled," Scully said. Rehearsals have gone from 6 p.m. to midnight this week, he added. 
This year's theme is "The Keenan Hard Day's Knight Revue. It will be showing tonight, Friday, and Saturday at 8 p.m. in the O'Laughlin Auditorium on the Saint Mary's campus. The tick­ets, which were free of charge, were already distributed. 
For those who were lucky enough to receive tickets, enjoy a performance into which a lot of hard wok has gone. For those who were not so lucky, do not fret. There is always next year. And if next year's staff is as enthusiastic about its gift to the campuses, the 1996 show will be equally entertaining. 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
~ 
-
The ObserverfTara Mooney The Observer/Cynthia Exconde 
Students wait in line for hours for Keenan Revue tickets. Due to the show's popularity, Keenan Hall residents began rehearsing for The Revue on Monday night. The show hundreds of students are turned away. opens tonight at O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's. 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, February 2, 1995 
I 
I • RECRUITING I I I 
I Kendra makes FSU no. 2 Wisconsin goes big I By RICK WARNER California, the best quarterback The Seminoles also landed 
By ARTHUR L. SRB biggest humans I have ever
I 
Associated Press in Mississippi, the best runner Florida's best wide receiver, Associated Press 
I seen," Alvarez said of the 6­
in Florida and the best fullback Peter Warrick of Bradenton,
I foot-7 offensive lineman from 
I Coming off its worst season in Louisiana," Wallace said. and home state running backs MADISON, Wis. 
Decatur Central. 

I since 1986, Notre Dame needed Wallace ranked Florida State Jeremi Rudolph of Apopka and The largest player ever to be Alvarez said Gibson "has toI a strong recruiting class to bol­as the No. 2 recruiting class, Khalid Abdullah of Davie. recruited by Wisconsin, 360-turn sideways to go through the 
I 
ster its football program. The followed by Penn State, Texas Penn State, which went unde­pound Aaron Gibson of
I door." I Irish got what they needed A&M, Florida, Michigan, feated last season, had a ban­Indianapolis, is among 22 play­Although Gibson weighs 360 I Wednesday. Auburn, Alabama, Colorado, ner recruiting year despite the ers who agreed Wednesday to pounds and wears a size 62I After struggling to a 6-5-1 Southern Cal, Nebraska, loss of Kendra. enroll at the Big Ten school. jacket, "he has quick feet," theI record, Notre Dame landed the Illinois, Wisconsin and North The Nittany Lions signed coach Barry Alvarez an­coach said. At Decatur Central,I top group of recruits on na­Carolina. three of the nation's best run­nounced. 
Gibson was credited with 46
I 
tional signing day. Florida State's best-known ning backs -Aaron Harris of Alvarez said the Badgers also tackles and four fumble recov­
I "Notre Dame was the clear recruit was Dan Kendra, the Downingtown, Pa.. Cordell recruited the two top quarter­eries when he captained the I winner," said Allen Wallace, nation's top-rated quarterback Mitchell of Syracuse, N.Y., and backs they sought -Marcus 
team his senior year. 

I publisher of SuperPrep maga­from Bethlehem, Pa. Kendra Chafie Fields of Philadelphia -White of Evanston, Ill., and The coach said the Rose BowlI zine in Laguna Beach, Calif. originally said he was going to plus blue-chip receiver Corey Mark Zanders of Joliet, Ill.-as victory of his 1993 Badgers andI "They got more big names and Penn State, but changed his Jones of Lancaster, Pa. well as all six recruits from 
the Hall of Fame Bowl victoryI they filled almost all their mind and decided to play for On defense, they got Wisconsin schools who were of­over Duke Jan. 2 were theneeds." Bobby Bowden, who coached SuperPrep All-Americas fered scholarships. biggest plusses in selling the~ "They got the best player in Kendra's father at West Brandon Short of McKeesport, "Gibson may be one of the 
athletes on Wisconsin. 
Texas, the best linebacker in Virginia. Pa. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Dearlline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

FOUND: CD case in the second  SUMMER JOBS  Health club membership for sale.  ROSES ARE RED  ATTENTION ALL ACTORS!!!  
NOTICES  floor Nieuwland computer lab. Call x1365 to claim.  Coed summer camp in Minnesota seeks individuals to work as cabin  Includes Tae Kwon Do lessons, pool, weight room, spa and  VIOLETS ARE BLUE THE OBSERVER HAS A  EXPERIENCED THESPIAN?  
& activity counselors. Director from  TANNING BEDS. Make offer.  SPECIAL OFFER FOR YOU  COMMERCIAL ACTOR?  
LOST: a glassblack and red bead­ Camp Foley will be at SMC LeMans  Call Randy 272-0415  MINOR TRAINING?  
ed charm necklace with a golden  2/2/95 and UNO O'Hara Lounge,  VALENTINE'S DAY is quickly  CLOSET ACTOR?  
**CAMPUS BANDS/MUSICIANS**  lion as the charm. It was a special  LaFortune 2/3195 both days from  Brand new Technics 5-disc cd play­ approaching and now is the time to  IT DOESN'T MATTER!II  
gilt. Paul x4-3311  9am-3pm. Stop by my table to get  er with remote-perfect condition­ place a classified ad for your valen­ WE WANT YOU ANYWAY!II  
The Student Union Board is now  information & application.  $200 or best offer x0640  tine. All Valentine's Day ads will  the only requirement is that you are  
accepting demo tapes to be consid­ LOST -gold rectangular gold  appear in a SPECIAL Valentine's  a sophomore, so come out and  
ered for the 1995 campus CD. Original music only, 1 song per  charms that says Credit Suisse. Lost early wk. of 1/30. VERY  Need ride to Chicago area 2/3. *Rudy 233-4008  TICKETS  classified section of The Observer on Tuesday, February 14.  audition for the class of 97's SOPHOMORE FOUR  
demo please. Turn tape and short  Sentimental. Reward. Call Jennifer  4 one-acts directed and acted by  
bio into SUB, second floor  4-1291.  Painters, Foremen, and Managers­ $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  You may place your classified  the sophomore class.  
LaFortune, in "campus CD" box by  Call College Pro Painters at 1 (800)  Have 6 Petty Tix, must get rid of  Monday through Friday from Bam to  This sunday 1-5pm in the Notre  
February 17. Questions? Call Ryan at 288-3952 or Steve at 232 4959.  WANTED -!L...S-pn-.n-g-Br-e-ak-1-Ba-h-am-as_P_a_rty_---..~  346-4649.I FOR RENT  I  them immediately-$10 each. Call Katie I Kathleen 284-4311 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  3pm. We are located on the third floor of Lafortune. Place your ad now and beat the rush I  Dame room, 2nd floor Lafortune. Lot's of parts. Lot's of fun questions? call kate x4837  
**CAMPUS  CD  1995***********  Cruise 6 Days $27911ncludes 12  .  .  Need Marquette GA's  Come see  
Meals & 6 Free Parties! Great  HOMES FOR RENT  Call Chris x3767  SMC-ND 1995 SUMMER PRO­ GEORGE AND THE FREEKSI  
Beaches & Nightlife! A HUGE  NEAR CAMPUS  GRAMS IN LONDON AND ROME.  Saturday, February 4th  
Party! Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights  232-2595  TRAVEL IN IRE, SCOT, ENG,  Sorin Hall  
Math Tutoring  Air & Hotel From $429! Spring  Will trade 2 Fri KEENAN REVUE tix  FRANCE, GER. SWITZ, & ITALY.  10:00 P.M.  
234-1107  Break Travel1-800-678-6386  Oakhill Condo for RENT  for Sat. Call Kevin x1488  COURSES IN BUEC, ED, HIST,  No Cover! No age requirement!  
for the 1995-1996 school year.  ITALIAN. INFO-ORG MEETING  Just good clean fun!  
ANIMAL HOUSE  For information call: 273-9438.  $NEED 2 PETTY TIX  FEB.6, AT 6:30PM CARROLL  
Thurs 8/1030  Florida's Spring Break Hotspots!  BRIAN @x1817 $$$  HALL-SMC.CALL PROF. A.A.  
Montgomery Theatre  PANAMA CITY OCEANVIEW  1, 2, & 3 BDRM HOMES NEAR  BLACK 284-4460  
ROOM WITH KITCHEN $1291  CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW & NEXT  Help! I need 2 pairs of GAs for the  (OFC) OR 272-3726 (HOME)  SEAN CAHILL-here is your I#%&*  
HEY SOPHOMORES......... .  WALK TO BEST BARS! Cocoa  FALL. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272­ UK game. $15-$25 I ticket.  classified!  
Beach (Near Disney)-27 acre  6551  Call Wade x3883  
Looking for that great service pro­ Deluxe Beachfront Resort 7 Nights  
ject that makes a huge difference,  $159! Key West $2291 Daytona  ROOM FOR RENT. FEB.1-MAY31,  Will trade 2 Th REVUE tix for 2 Fri  WHAT ARE YOU DOING WITH  
and is still a lot of fun?  Room with Kitchen From $129! 1­ 1995. MATURE STUDENT. QUIET  tix. 4-3881  Congrats to Irish Synchro! MSU  YOUR THURSDAY NIGHTS????  
Look no further!  800·678-6386  NEIGHBORHOOD. 255-9005  better prepare for our magic!I!  Come to the Acoustic Cafe in the  
Marquette GAs needed  Huddle and listen to hours of great  
THE  SOPHOMORE  CLASS  Spring Break! Panama Cityl 8 Days  Perfect for 2nd Semester  Contact Bryon -1 042  Next Wednesday, make the right  music and poetry, enjoy free coffee,  
SERVICE  PROJECT  Oceanview Room with a Kitchen  in student occupied  choice:  Mud and Jenny  and best of all­ 
$1291 Walk to best bars! Includes  3-flat, heat included.  KEENAN REVUE TIX  procrastinate!!!!!  
Youth Mentoring (serving as role  Free Discount Card which will save  Furnished 1 bedrm apt. -$260  Want to trade 2 FRI tix for 2 SAT  Life is Short  The fun starts tonight at 9pm and  
models for under-privileged kids)at  you $1 00 on food/drinks! 1-800­ 755 South Bend Ave.-1 blk. west of  tix. Call John at x0858.  STOP THE HATE  will include:  
the Northeast Neighborhood Center  678-6386  NO Ave.  JON WALSH  
deposit, 1-800-582-9320  WANTED: 6 Tickets to Tom Petty  If someone see's Dave Tyler,  JOHN SCHERPEREEL  
FRIDAYS 2:30-4:30, or anytime in  RUN YOUR OWN BUSINESS,  DESPERATE!!!!! Please Call  let him know.  KATE BABKA  
between. Meet at Main Circle or 161 Alumni Hall. Questions? Call  GAIN VALUABLE EXPERIENCE WHILE BUILDING YOUR  FOR SALE  Mary Jane @ 271-0224  HEY SOPHOMORES!!!  JUSTIN MITCHELL SCOTT WEINGARTEN  
Brian x1058.  RESUME. EARN UP TO $10,000  Kentucky tix NEEDED  like to act?  AARON DUNN  
(25 JOBS) HIGH DEMAND PROD­ LOSE WEIGHT FOR SPRING  $$Call Brent x1761  did it in high school and miss it?  BRENDAN BAYLISS  
Used Texts Cheap! I Check out  UCT, IRRIGATION SALES AND  BREAK! No dietsldrugs/exercisel  been a lifelong dream to  MARK LANG  
Pandora's Books 233-2342  INSTALLATION. BE A LEADER:  Fabulous Herbal Tablets: guaran­ Need 3 Marquette GA's  try?  A few spots are still left, so come to  
NO ave & Howard st 10-6m-sat  VEHICLE REQUIRED CALL STU·  teed results! Kelly (800)209-2150  Call Doug 4-4471  then come and audition for the  Lafortune at 8pm and sign up!  
9-3 sundays  DENT SPRINKLERS AT 1-800­ SOPHOMORE FOUR  
265-7691  1992 Subaru wagon  Need 4 tix (ga or stud) for NO-UK  4 one-acts directed and acted by  
Term Papers typed  REDUCED $6500  game call Lee x1216  the sophomore class.  Flanner Tower Presents:  
Babysitter wanted -occasional  low mileage  This Sunday 1-5pm notre dame  Gamecock Rock Concert Series  
Spee-Dee Wordprocessing  evening or weekend times, for  good, clean condition  Will trade 2 Fri. KEENAN REVUE  room, 2nd floor Iafortune.  Saturday, February 4  
273-4824  3&1/2 and 1 year old, must have  accessorized  tix for 2 Sat. tix. Call Josh x1385  no experience or preparation nec­ 9:00p.m. in the Flanner Basement  
own car and be year round resi­ 634-4527  essary.  ??? call Kate x4837  Featuring:  
Pick Up The $20,000 Check in this year's campus telephone directory.  dent, Judith 287-0260  SELLING POWER-TRANSLATOR  Help! I need MU GA's. Call Beth x4620  The Big Earl •••••••••••••••and*•********* * •••••••  
The yellow pages are reinvented  SKI RESORT JOBS-Hiring for  FOR DOS SOFTWARE, ENG­ ATTENTION ALL CAMPUS  Kid Kaos  
and more fun than ever before! Pick  many positions (including summer).  SPANISH, BRAND NEW, 130,  Need 2 Marquette tix for my broth­ BANDS AND MUSICIANS!! I!!!!!  Admission is $1  
up your directory at your Residence  Up to $2,000+ in salary & benefits  271-19-98.  er, stu OK 289-9420  Tickets available in Flanner or at  
Hall or Student Activities in  (Free ski pass, ski equipment, meal  NAZZ Applications aredue  the LaFortune Info Desk  
LaFortune Student Union if you  discounts). Ski/Snowboard instruc­ 84 DODGE OMNI, RUNNING  NEED TICKETS FOR TOM  THIS FRIDAY AT 5PM  Flanner Foodsales will be open to  
have not already received one, and you could be loaded this spring!  tors, lift operators. wait staff, chalet staff, + other positions. For more  WELL. GOOD CONDITION, 600 271-19-98  PETTY­ELDERLY GRANDMOTHER'S  in the SUB office, 2nd fl. Lafortune don't forget your entry fee, logo  offer you pizza, pop, and snacks I •••••••••••••••••••••***................  
information call:(206)634-0469  DYING WISH IS TO SEE TOM  and tape!!! no late entries will be  
CLEAR AND PRESENT DANGER  ext.V55842  $250 voucher for travel on America  PREFORM "AMERICAN GIRL"  considered.  ???'s call kate x4828  Top 10 Quotes from  
FRI-SAT 8/1030  West Airlines. Being sold FOR  CALL-X4100  the Purdue Gymnastics Meet  
Cushing Auditorium  ONLY $200. Good until11/27/95.  10. "I don't want to step on any­ 
"Eat to live; and not live to eatl"  CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING­Earn up to $2,000+/month working  Call Mike @ 273-6077.  PERSONAL  Desperately seeking ride to Padre for Spring Break. Will split gas and  one's head." "Then don't." 9. "They were in the fish tank.  I  
Join us in Pangborn Hall's  on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­ tolls in exchange. Call Bridget at  swear to Godl"  
basement social space for a  panies. World travel (Hawaii,  Mac Computer SE30 4/80 $600 or  David Mamet's  x2702.  8. "I'm running out. Give me yours."  
Healthy Eating -Healthy Dieting  Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.).  best offer. Luttio 288-0097  AMERICAN BUFFALO  (Albert)  
Workshop. Sun. Feb. 5 @ 7:00pm! ILOST & FOUND I  Seasonal and full-time employment available. No experience neces­sary. For more information call1­206-634-0468 ext. C55842  OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered at $85,900. First Floor location. Finished basement with full lavato­ Directed by Stephen Susco February 2-4 (Thurs.-Sat.) 8:10pm Washington Hall Mainstage  Need 4 tix (ga or stud) for NO-UK game call Lee x1216  7. "This is E. Who are you? You called me. I didn't call you." 6. "I don't know what to do." (Molly, unevens)  
ry. Two Bedrooms and two baths  LOST: 2 SPECIAL RINGS  5. "Have you looked in the  
LOST: 2 SPECIAL RINGS  STUDENTS NEEDED TO MAN­ on ground level. Lease back to  Tickets are $3.00, on sale now at  On Friday, Jan 27 I lost two rings.  kitchen?"M+J  
On Friday, Jan 2711ost two rings.  AGE PAINTING CREWS,  owner through May, 1995.  the LaFortune Information Desk  One Notre Dame class ring with the  4. "Don't think I'm less of a man  
One Notre Dame class ring with the  THROUGHOUT INDIANA, FOR  Call (616) 946-0700.  crest and diamond, inscribed KDJ  because I ask for directions."  
crest and diamond, inscribed KDJ  SUMMER OF '95. GUARANTEED  Produced by the Notre Dame  '94 and one anniversary band with  3. "Isn't NO a dry campus?"  
'94 and one anniversary band with  TO MAKE $3000. IF INTERESTED,  386 SX-20, 2mb ram, 85mb hd, 3.5  Student Players  about seven diamonds. If found or  2. "Lisa, I'm only 17, so it's still ille­ 
about seven diamonds. If found or  PLEASE CALL 1-800-94-STU­ and 5.25 hd drives, keyboard,  have any info call Kenya x4-3711.  gal."  
have any info call Kenya x4-3711.  DENT.  mouse, original soflware and manu­ •• note : play contains harsh pro­ VERY SENTIMENTAL. REWARD  1. "Pick the groceries. Pick the gro­ 
..~  VERY SENTIMENTAL. REWARD.  als, SVGA monitor. $475 obo. Two  fanity and some violenVadult  ceries. Push the cart. Push the  
Calc 120 tutor needed,prefer expe­ 4x9 SIMMs, $125 ea. obo.  271­ themes  Meg han and Kristy,  cart."  
FOUND: A jacket in The Observer  rience & good communicator $8/hr,  5687  Happy 21st? Birthday  
Classifieds Department.  2hr/wk x3882  -Natty Clan & Co.  

Thursday, February 2, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
IRecycle 'be ObserverI P~i;~no signs top three class 
Come & See the New CJ's ! 
417N 
By MICHAEL A. GIARRUSSO 
Associated Press 
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. 
Analysts ranked Penn State's recruiting class in the nation's top three, but the class of 1995 may be remembered for the one who got away. 
Bethlehem Catholic quarter­back Dan Kendra, who verbally committed to Penn State in December, signed with Florida State Wednesday, the first day high school players can sign let­ters of intent. 
Phil Grosz of Blue-White Illustrated said 19 players 



Seniors! Seniors! 

Want to go to the Pacers-Knicks game on Feb. 8? 
Buy your tickets at the LaFortune information desk. -Bus leaves at 3:15 pm at the the CCE. -Cost for ticket and transportation 
$15.00. 
Call 631-5225 for more information. 
t 
The FACULTY Series 

TIMELY TOPICS 
An opportunity to enter into conversation with colleagues on current ethical and religious issues. 
"BUSINESS ETHICS IN PRACTICE" A Competitive Advantage in the 1990's 
A conversation with 

Georges Enderle  and  Patrick E. Murphy  
O'Neil Chair of International  Professor of Marketing  
Business Ethics  

Tuesday, February 7 4:30p.m. at 220 Hayes-Healy 
Faculty, Professional Staff & Graduate Students Welcome 

Sponsored by: The Department The Center for The Office of ofTheology Social Concerns Campus Ministry 
--Light Refreshments will follow -­
~

.....................
............. 
• 

signed Wednesday. 
Even without Kendra, Penn State's recruiting class is No. 3 in the country behind only Florida State and Notre Dame, according to Allen Wallace, publisher of SuperPrep. 
The Nittany Lions signed three of the nation's best run­ning backs -Aaron Harris of Downingtown, Cordell Mitchell of Syracuse, N.Y., and Chafie Fields of Philadelphia. 
Penn State also signed highly rated receiver Corey Jones of Lancaster. LB Brandon Short of McKeesport, The Associated Press Pennsylvania player of the year, has a good shot to play as a freshman. 
Another signee who may play early is Cuncho Brown of Winston Salem, N.C., SuperPrep's No. 1 tight end 
In addition to Short, Penn State landed SuperPrep All­American defensive linemen David Fleischauer of Clemmons, N.C., and Anthony Cleary of Chambersburg. 
"I think they have the No. 1 running back class in the coun­try, SuperPrep says Cuncho Brown is the No. 1 tight end and Corey Jones is one of the top receivers," he said. 

CHOO-CHO IS II/ 


Happy Birthday! 
Love, Mom, Dad, Brendan g Mary Brigid 
22nd Annual Summer Program ND-SMC Students 
London Rome May 24-June 23 June 18-July 17 
Courses offered in 
Music, Education, Business & Economics, History, Italian 
Informational & Organizational Meeting February 6, 6:30 p.m., Carroll Hall SMC 
Student-Faculty Pizza Social 
Past student and faculty participants will be present. 
For information, call Prof. Black 284-4460 or 272-3726 
JAZZMAN'S 
:J{JPE CL1113 
and CRYSTAL PRODUCTIONS 
Presents an action-packed Las Vegas style show this Thursday's College Night for both male and female patrons with free buffet dinner and complimentary toast with student ID from 7:30p.m. until 9 p.m. or until food runs out. Show starts at 9:30 with limited admittance during show until midnight. 
$5.00 admission with student ID; $7.00 w/o ID 
Two dance floors with continuous entertainment and music until close. 21 and over admittance 
525 N. Hill St. 233-8505 
Advance tickets on sale -don't miss this show and the succulant dinner . 
.,.. 
• RECRUITING NOTES 

Starting off on the right foot 
Hoops 
continued from page 20 

With perennial power UCLA · on the horizon Sunday, this was a must win for Notre Dame. 
"Any win for us is a big win," said MacLeod. "Between Boston College and UCLA you can't overlook it, and they were definitely up tonight." 
ADD-MORE INJURY -The Irish backcourt suffered an­other loss last night as sopho­more point guard Admore White suffered a hip flexor in the pre-game warmups and missed the game. His status is unknown for Notre Dame's game at UCLA. 
White joins junior guard Keith Kurowski on the injured list. Kurowski is still in the infir­mary after suffering complica­tions from heart surgery last week. He is doubtful for this weekend's action. 

Hey, Andy-
your dream is a reality! 

liAPPY 19rn 5IQTtfDAY! 
Love. Mom, Dad, Dana @ &hannon 
By MIKE NORBUT 
Associate Spons Editor 
Maybe Lou Holtz was a good boy over the past few months. Maybe Lady Luck finally de­cided to crack a little smile over the Golden Dome. 
Or maybe Kevin Kopka just watched "Coach" a couple of weeks ago, and saw Holtz tell Hayden Fox how badly the Irish needed a placekicker. 
In any case, the Hollywood, Florida native decided to join Notre Dame to become the sav­ior of the Irish kicking game. 
"I grew up as a Miami fan," Kopka said. "And then I visited Notre Dame and I fell in love. The hardest thing for me to do was get on the plane to go back home." 
The 5-8, 175-pounder is the second-ranked kicker in the nation according to several publications. The ratings are done at combines and kicking camps, where leg strength and accuracy are tested. 
At camps, he made 70-yard 
field goals before breakfast. He 
could put kickoffs through the 
uprights with his eyes closed. 
"One day some guys came up from the (Miami) Herald to watch me," Kopka said. "I was putting them through from 70, · 7 5 yards out. It was pretty 
cool." · 
But in game situations this 
year, Kopka looked a little less 
glittery than he should. 
He attempted nine field goals 
this season while playing for 
Hollywood Hills High School. 
Seven of them were blocked. 
He missed a 61-yarder because 
the ball flew over the upright 
and the referees declared it no 
good. He did manage to make a 
45-yard attempt "with plenty to 
spare." 
"It did more to frustrate me 
than it did to hurt my confi­
dence," Kopka said. "It's kind 
of hard to kick when you know 
it's going to be blocked. 
"Our biggest guy was only 180 
pounds, which isn't too good 
considering we're playing in 
one of the toughest football 
states in the country," he ex­
plained. "I mean, I was taking a full sprint at the ball just to get it off." 

·But at least he did not miss an extra point in his entire high school career, which is more than present Irish kickers can say for themselves. 
"Kevin Kopka has a very strong leg, and he's as good as I've seen in many years," Holtz said. "We expect him to be our kicker, but he must prove him­self." 
Along with Kopka, Notre Dame landed a punter/athlete by the name of Hunter Smith. Smith, from Sherman, Texas, will probably also step in as a starter on the Irish special teams. 
"They are better than what 
we have on campus," Holtz 
continued. "They just have to 
show they can play." 

"I feel I have the ability to 
start," Kopka said enthusiasti­
cally. "I know I have to work 
hard, and I'll come in ready to 
start. I want to start my career 
off right." 

Just as long as it's not wide 
right. 


CAMPUS MINISTRY••• •••CONSIDERATIONS 
STRUGGLE AND HOPE The Church teaches that men and women who are homosexual do "Is my son going to hell?" not choose their sexual orientation, just as men and women who 
are heterosexuals do not choose their sexual orien ration. Tears welled up in the mother's eyes as she asked the priest if her Homosexual persons must be treated with respect, compassion, son, who had recently informed her that he was gay, was going to and sensitivity. Every sign of unjust discrimination must be 
go to hell. avoided. Like all person's, they are called to fulfill God's will in 
their lives. (Catechism ofthe Catholic Church, #2358) She loved her son, and she did not want him to be hurt. She realized that her son probably had some painful moments coming Like other members of the Church, they are part of the body o to realize this about himself, and this pained her. Christ. 
She had been a faithful Catholic her entire life. She respected the There are challenges particular to men and women who are Church and she wanted to know what the Church teaches. Deep homosexuals or who think that they may be homosexuals. In our 
down inside, she knew that her son would not go to hell because society, it seems that nobody in their right minds would choose to he is gay. Yet, she needed to hear it from a representative of the be gay or lesbian. And, being Catholic and being homosexual has Church which had been such a central part of her life. She needed particular challenges because the Church does not approve to hear it from the Church which had helped her to live through homosexual acts. life's struggles before. She needed to hear it from the Church which had helped her to hope before. The Church has not always ministered well to homosexual people. 
Some members of the Church have actively engaged in harassing It was good to hear the priest say that the Church teaches that her homosexuals. It is important to admit the sins of the past and o son would not go to hell because he is gay. It ~as good to hear the the present. 
priest say that her son is not an object to be changed, but a person to be loved just as any other person. It was good to hear the priest Yet, let all people, especially people who have struggled with the say that her son is not evil or gripped by an evil condition which issue of homosexuality, feel valued and challenged by the Church. 
would make it impossible for him to be a great person and do Let us pray and work so that unjustified fears based on the sexual great things. Her son may face particular struggles because of his orientation of others come to an end. sexuality, but his future still held many possibilities for good, -Fr. Bob Dowd, C.S.C. regardless of or even because of his sexual orientation. FIFTH SUNDAY IN ORDINARY TIME 
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica 
CONSOLATION AND CHALLENGE Many people are not sure what the Church teaches concerning sexual orientation. Some people simply assume that the Church condemns people who are homosexuals or who have homosexual  Sat. Feb. 4 Sun. Feb. 5  5:00p.m. 10:00 a.m. 11:45 a.m.  Rev. Joseph Ross, C.S.C. Rev. Joseph Ross, C.S.C. Rev. Patrick Neary, C. S.C.  
tendencies.  Some people fear that talking about homosexuality  
promotes more homosexuality or makes people who would  
otherwise be heterosexual choose to be homosexual.  This is not  
what the Church teaches.  


Thursday, February 2, 1995 The Observer· SPORTS page 15 
"I think on paper is this is an exceptional year. I hope they are as good as they are 
Meet the Irish. • • ­
on paper." -Lou Holtz 
BROWN, BOBBY A SuperPrep prep All-American. ranking 13th nationally among wide receivers ... caught 35 passes for 575 yards and seven TDs in '94 ... played free safety on defense, making two interceptions and 21 tackles as senior ... also a standout in track with 4.55 40 and 47.8 400 meters to his credit. 
BRYANT, LAMONT A Prep Sports Report prep All-America pick ... selected as Prep Football Report All-Mid­Atlantic Defensive Player of the Year ... named to Super Southern 100 by Atlanta Joumat-Conslltutlon ... USA Today honorable mention All-American . . led team to South Carolina Class lA state title in '94 ... made 160 tackles as senior in '94, with six sacks, six fum­ble recoveries and four fumbles caused ... first-team all-state pick and county defensive MVP ... played tight end as senior. catching 22 passes for 436 yards and three TDs . chosen for Shrine Bowl all-star game. 
CERASANI, JOHN Named to prep All-America teams by SuparPrep, Prep Football Report and 8/uech/p Illustrated ... ranked fourth nationally among light ends by 8/uechip Illustrated and 12th nationally by SuperPrep . . rated one of top 100 players nationally by Chicago Sun-Times . 
. one ol 20 players on Detroit Free-Press Best ol the Midwest team ... all-state selection as senior . . all-conlerence pick as junior. . caught 27 passes lor 459 and six TDs and 17.0-yard average as senior in '94 ... had 62 tackles, seven sacks as defensive end in '94 .. 
IllinOis all-stater in track with best of 56-6 in shot put ... played lor his father Tom in high school ... brother Tom Jr. threw for more than 1,000 yards as quarterback at Indiana Stale in "94. 
DENSON, AUTRY Named to prep AII-Amenca teams by Parade, SuparPrep and 8/uechip Illustrated ... ranked ninth nationally among running backs by both SuparPrep and Bluechip Illustrated . a USA Today honorable mention AII-Amenca pick .. one of 10 running backs named to Super Southern 100 by Atlanta Journal Constitution . 
broke Broward County record for TDs as se­nior with 16 ...rushed lor 1,300 yards and 6.6­yard average as semor ... two-t1me county offensive player of the year ... set county record with more than 4,000 career yards. 
FRIDAY, JIMMY Named to prep All-America teams by Parade, SuparPrap, Prep Football Report and Bluechip Illustrated ... first-team p1ck as defensive end on USA Today All-America team ... selected as Prep Football Report All-SOuthwest Defensive Player of the Year ... ranked fourth nationally among lmebackers by Bluechip Illustrated and lihh nationally by SuperPrep .. defensive MVP of SWC Reg1on according to Bluech1p Illustrated ... rated one of top 100 players nationally by Chicago Sun-Times .. made 110 tackles as senior in '94 despite miss­mg two and a hall games with ankle sprain . had 10 sacks, seven tackles lor lost yardage and caused two fumbles ... first-team all-state pick as senior ... had career totals of 206 tack­les and 34 sacks ... won district honors in shot and discus in track . . both parents are school pnncipals ... recorded 4.4 GPA on 4.0 scale . 
father James Jr. tried out with Dallas Cowboys in '70s . . . president of high school chapter of Fellowship of Christian Athletes. 
GUILBEAUX, BENNY SuparPrap prep All-America selection, ranking seventh among defensive backs nationally . . . named SuperPrep Southwest Defensive Player of the Year ... one of 20 defensive backs on Super Southern 100 team by Atlanta Joumat-Conslltution ... Louisiana Class 4A all-state pick as senior ... made 124 tackles as senior in '94, plus one interception. 
HOWARD, BOBBY A USA Today honorable mention prep All· American ... helped DuPont High School to West Virginia state titles in '92 and '93 and a 12-1 mark in '94 ... two-time first-team all­state selection . . . played linebacker and full­back ... made 125 tackles as senior in '94--89 solo-to go with six tackles for lost yardage, three interceptions, five fumbles caused and three recovered ... rushed 75 times in '94 for 663 yards, an 11.5-yard average and 12 TDs .. . four-year starter at both linebacker and full­back ... also played basketball and baseball. 
JACKSON, JAMES Named to prep All-America teams by SuperPrep and Prep Football Report. . ranked 12th nationally among running backs by SuperPrep . .. named to Super Southern 100 by Atlanta Journal-Constitution ... carried 100 times for 1 ,092 yards as senior in '94 ... hit .355 in baseball and has run 6.3 in 60. 
JACKSON, JARIOUS Named to prep All-America teams by SuperPrep, Prep Football Report and Bluechip Illustrated . . . ranked sixth nationally among quarterbacks by Bluechip Illustrated and 1Oth nationally by SuperPrep ... USA Today honor­able mention pick ... one of five quarterbacks named to Super Southern 100 by Atlanta Journal-Constitution . . rated one of top 100 players nationally by Chicago Sun-Times ... first-team all-state quarterback as senior .. accounted for 2,100 total offense yards as senior in '94, completing 54 of 134 passes for 880 yards, seven TDs and seven interceptions ... accounted for 1,525 total offense yards as junior in '93, completing 55 of 124 throws lor 642 yards and five TDs and accounting for 20 total TDs ... two-year rushing totals included 1,696 yards and 20 TDs, including more than 650 yards in '94 ... helped team to combined 17-8 record his last two seasons ... played defensive end as a sophomore and started seven games at safety as senior, making 25 tackles and two interceptions in '94. 
JONES, ANTWON Named to prep All-America teams by SuperPrep and Prep Football Report .. ranked as seventh best defensive lineman nationally by SuperPrep . . chosen Prep Football Report All-Midwest Defensive Player of the year . . . rated one of top 100 players nationally by Chicago Sun-Times . . named to Detroit Free-Press Best in the Midwest team, ranking 12th among Midwest-area players ... named Associated Press Southwest Ohio defensive player of the year and shared Ohio defensive player of the year award ...... had 16 sacks and 31 tackles for losses as senior in '94 ... caught seven passes for 11 0 yards as tight end ... earned all-state honors as senior in '94 ... helped his team to 12-1 record and Ohio state finals in '94 ... has run 11.3 100 meters, 23.5 200 meters. 
JORDAN, SHELTON 
One of 16 linebackers named to Super Southern 100 by Atlanta Journal-Constitution .. . '94 defensive MVP of Southern States Football League . . . first -team aii-SSFL selec­tion as both linebacker and offensive tackle ... first-team all St. Landry Parish at linebacker as both junior and senior ... team MVP as senior ... rated national sleeper of the year by Reebok ... made 4 7 solo and 94 assisted tackles as senior, plus 19 1/2 sacks, two fum­ble recoveries (both for TDs, of 46 and 78 yards) ... played for school with only 180 stu­dents ... did not play football until junior year, playing tuba in marching band his first two years in high school. 
KOPKA, KEVIN Named to prep All-America teams by SuparPrep and Bluechip Illustrated ... ranked second nationally among kickers by both SuperPrep and Bluechip Illustrated ... one of three kickers named to Super Southern 100 by Atlanta Journal-Constitution ... connected on 54•yard field goal as sophomore in '92 and never missed a PAT in his career ... hit 52· yard field goal as junior, finishing 7-ol-8 on field goals and 22-of-22 on PATs ... connected on one of nine field goals as senior in '94, with seven blocked and the other miss coming from 61. 
MINOR,KORY USA Today Defensive Player of the Year for '94 ... named to prep All-America teams by Parade, SuperPrep, Prep Football Report and Bluechip Illustrated ... ranked first nationally among linebackers by Bluechlp Illustrated and seventh according to SuperPrep ... national defensive MVP according to Bluechip Illustrated and also defensive MVP of Western Region ... rated one of top 100 players na­tionally by Chicago Sun-Times ... named to Bast in the West team by Long Beach Press­Telegram . . . made 94 tackles as senior, 31 solo ... caused five fumbles and recovered six, recording 20 1/2 sacks and 36 in his career ... had 267 career tackles ... rushed 35 times for 240 yards as senior fullback ... helped Bishop Amat to 13-1 mark in '94 and runnerup finish in Southern Section Division I ... also played basketball in high school ... rated one of top 50 seniors and one of top 1 0 linebackers nationally in '94 preseason listings by Athlon . 
MUELLER, ALEX Two-year starter at offensive tackle at Gilman School ... helped team to 6-2 record as senior in '94 and share of conference championship .. 
his high school coach, Bill Possi, was coached by Irish offensive line coach Joe Moore at Pittsburgh ... also played hockey and lacrosse. 
RIDDER, TIM First-team pick as offensive lineman on USA Today prep All America team ... named to prep All-America teams by Parade, SuperPrep, Prep Football Report and Bluechip Illustrated. . ranked fourth nationally among offensive line­men by Bluechip Illustrated and ninth by SuperPrep ... rated one of top 1 00 players nationally by Chicago Sun-Times ... helped team to 6-3 record as senior in '94, also work­ing some as defensive tackle ... first-team all-state as senior . . . three-year starter on both sides of the ball ... had 79 solo tackles and six sacks on defense as senior ... two uncles. Tom and Dave, played football at Nebraska under Tom Osborne ... rated one of top 50 seniors and one of top 1 0 offensive linemen nationally in '94 preseason listing by Athlon . . . rated one of top 50 players and one of five offensive linemen in '94 preseason ratings by Street & Smith's . .. boasts best of 53 feet in shot put and played center in basketball. 


ROSENTHAL, MIKE First-team pick as offensive lineman on USA Today prep All-America team ... named to prep All-America squads by Parade, SuperPrep, Prep Football Report and Bluechip Illustrated . . . ranked as top offensive lineman nationally by SuperPrep and second by Bluechlp Illustrated ... co-offensive MVP of Big 1 0 Region according to Bluechlp Illustrated ... rated one of top 100 players nationally by Chicago Sun-Times ... named top individual player on Detroit Free-Press Best of the Midwest team ... named player of the year in state of Indiana by USA Today ... Gatorade Circle of Champions player of the year in Indiana for '94 ... helped Penn finish '94 with 72-game regular-season winning streak, including 10-1 overall record in '94 ... two-year starter, playing right tackle in '94, left tackle in '93 ... runnerup for '94 Mr. Football award in Indiana ... won all-state honors as senior in '94 . . all-area and all Northern Indiana Conference selection by South Bend Tribuna .. . named Northern Indiana Conference most valuable lineman ... rated one of top 50 seniors and one of top 10 offensive linemen nationally in '94 preseason listings by Athlon . . rated one of top 50 players and one of top five offensive linemen in '94 preseason ratings by Street & Smith's ... gave up only one quarter­back sack in two and a half seasons ... select­ed as top player in region for Indiana Football Coaches Association North-South all-star game. 
SANDERS, A'JANI A SuperPrep prep All-American, ranking 26th nationally among defensive backs . . Prep Football Report All-America selection ... unan­imous all-district defensive back and second­team all-district tailback ... made 93 tackles and lour interceptions as senior in '94 after 92 tackles, four sacks and three interceptions as junior in '93 ... played tree safety as junior and senior ... rushed for 640 yards and eight TDs as tailback in '94, also catching 30 passes for more than 500 yards and eight TDs ... has run 
10.8 in 100 meters and 4.5 in 40 ... averaged 10 points and eight rebounds in basketball. 
SMITH, HUNTER Punted 30 times in '94 for better than 40-yard average ... two-time all-state pick as punter . . . played quarterback as senior in '94, leading team to Class 4A state playoff quarterfinals ... completed 60 of 130 passes in '94 for 930 yards and 13 TDs ... rushed for 500 yards and eight TDs on 127 attempts . . . caught 47 pass­es for 937 yards and nine TDs as wide receiver as junior in '93 ... earned all-state honors as receiver in '93 ... has highjumped 6-7. 
SPENCER, JAMIE Named to prep All-America teams by Parade, SuperPrep, Prep Football Report and Bluechip Illustrated ... ranked sixth nationally among running backs by SuparPrep (second among all players in Louisiana) and 11th nationally by Bluechip Illustrated . .. a USA Today honor­able mention All-America pick ... rated one of top 1 00 players nationally by Chicago Sun­Times ... one of 10 running backs named to Super Southern 100 by Atlanta Journal­Constitution ... rushed for 1,337 yards and 19 TDs as senior in '94 . . . led team to finals of state championship in '94, earning first-team all-state recognition as junior and senior ... carried 231 times for 1,843 yards and 21 TDs as junior ... rated one of top 50 seniors and one of top six running backs nationally In '94 preseason listings by Ath/on . . . rated one of top 50 prep players and one of seven running backs in preseason evaluations by Street & Smith's. 
STEPHENS, SHANNON Named to prep All-America teams by SuperPrep and Prep Football Report .. ranked 22nd nationally among running backs by SuparPrep ... first-team all-Houston and honorable mention all-state as senior . rushed for 1 ,278 yards on 194 carries as senior in '94, including 7 .0-yards-per-attempt average and 14 TDs . . . caught 22 passes for 31 0 yards and three TDs and returned two kickoffs for touchdowns in '94 ... helped team to 10-1 mark in '94, while also starting at cornerback on defense ... made 167 tackles as senior. while breaking up eight passes, intercepting one pass and blocking a kick ... as junior rushed 136 times for 1,220 yards, 14 TDs and 
9.6 average ... caught 27 passes as junior for 367 yards and also returned two kickoffs for TDs ... a standout kickoff and punt returner in high school ... has run a 10.5 100 meters and long jumped more than 23 feet. 
STRAYHORN, MARIO Named to prep All-America teams by Parade, SuparPrep and Bluechlp Illustrated ... ranked ninth nationally among defensive backs by Bluechip Illustrated, 23rd nationally by SuperPrep ... made 123 tackles, five intercep­tions and two fumble recoveries as senior in '94 ... captain of squad ... made 91 tackles as junior to go with eight interceptions . recorded 273 career tackles and 13 intercep­tions ... two-time all-Southwest Ohio pick. 
THOMAS, JOE Named to prep All-America teams by SuperPrep and Prep Football Report . ranked 24th nationally among linebackers by SuperPrep . . all-state pick as senior . made more than 100 tackles as both junior and senior in '93 and '94 ... had 24 combined tack­las for losses and 15 sacks in those two sea­sons ... as senior had 178 tackles (24 for loss­es), nine sacks, three blocked punts, two inter­ceptions, two fumble recoveries, three blocked PATs for 6-2 team ... played both inside and outside linebacker . . . career totals included 327 solo tackles, 174 assists, five in­terceptions, 22 sacks, 54 tackles lor loss, 16 caused fumbles, 10 recoveries ... three-time all-district selection . . . caught live TD passes as senior tight end, making 12 catches overall for 172 yards ... also a standout in basketball. 
WAGNER, JOHN Prep Football Report All-America selection . three-year starter on offensive line for team that went combined 34-0 and won three straight Connecticut Class 3A state titles from '92 through '94 ... captain of team as senior .. . earned all-state honors as semor and all-con­ference honors as junior and senior. 
WISNE, JERRY First-team pick as defensive lineman on USA Today prep All America team ... named to prep All-America teams by Parade. SuparPrep, Prep Football Report and Bluechlp Illustrated . . ranked sixth nationally among defensive line­men by Bluechlp Illustrated and 15th nationally by SuperPrep ... rated one of top 100 players nationally by Chicago Sun-Times ... made 76 tackles as senior in '94, 15 for lost yardage and seven sacks, while causing two fumbles . father Jerry played on Notre Dame '66 national championship team. 
for that healthy summertime glow... experience 





Tanning
with state-ofthe-artfacilities 


Valentine's Special 
Free Week of Unlimited Tanning with Shampoo and Cut 
Quality Hair Care-Guaranteed! WE REALLY CARE! 
n..c............p••
e ® 1811 ..,.. hiNIAv•.

we c.are hair ~~~~:~~r~p.m. 
~c-»~-s=--__ __ __ __9.....,.....,.5_,-r--~-!Y-~~:~~!~l
.....,.,....,._9....,.......,. .....
....,.. __ 


PERM !
orRedken® 

Ianger hair or specialty wrap extra Purchase l 
----------------------~ L----------------------~ 
• RECRllmNG

-
LB is no Minor 01iracle 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR 
Associate Sports Editor 
As bluechip, sure-thing prospects go, future Notre Dame linebacker Kory Minor is as azure as they come. 
USA Today Defensive Player of the Year only tops the long list of accolades received by the La Verne, CA native who was a consensus pick for every high school all-America roster. 
He's also the perfect fit for the aggressive style of play that defensive coordinator Bob Davies has introduced to the Irish, a 6'2" 225 lb. athlete whose game is pressure on the passer and chasing opponents down. 
"I think I'll fit in very well with the style of coaching Davie's has," noted the senior at Bishop Amat high school. 
If his senior season provided a glimpse at the future, Minor may bring in the speed and tenacity necessary for Davie's risk-taking scheme to catch on. 
While leading his team to a 13-1 mark and a state runner-up finish, Minor amassed 94 tackles (31 solo), five forced fumbles, and 20.5 sacks. He fmished with 38 for his career. 
He also played fullback, rushing for 240 yards on 35 carries. 
However, it was not football alone that sold the highly-coveted Minor, who was also pursued by many Pac-10 schools, on Notre Dame. 
"Coach Holtz was very reassuring when he came to visit," explained Minor. "He said, 'Kory, we have no high standards for you, it's my job to have you realize your potential. If you are the same hard-working player and student that you were in high school, you will succeed here."' 
Minor admitted that he's always been a big fan of the Irish. 
''I've wanted to go there since I was little," he stated. "My mom encouraged me not to pass up the opportunity, be­cause with Notre Dame's academics, a degree from there will take you far." 
In fact, the closeness of his family, and the parallel of the Notre Dame community, were a factor in Minor's decision, solidifying his decision to leave the sunny West coast. 
"We're debating now whether my mom will move out there (to South Bend)," noted Minor. 
.,;:•:<=:·:·:'· 
Whh a stable. of classic drop"batk Including Incumbent Ron Powh.i$; needed a change-up OB. He Miss. native Jarlous Jackson Is a 215-pound versatile. athlete ..~··· ........, compared to 1993 Hei(!man .. Charlie Ward. He seems like a-'-••~..., .,. 
Holtt's option offense. x"' don't know how many awards I was Impressed with hlm," seld ~. 
Well, coach, so were a lot of ()!:her pt~o~,:tr Jackson was on the AII•Amerloa.N>. t~rri$ of SUperPrep, Prep Footf>alf Report, and 8/i.techip •· · Illustrated. · · · praise. ·.. , ·· · 
Although he completed less than 50% o,tl'!JJ; .;•;:.;,.!/'"(NOt hAt•m'tJI~itnt.Atlt. 
passes and threw as many TO's as lnteh salied U$ .... llC';!Ut," Al:>ltt ptacked. ~1-te ceptlons (7), he could be ]ustwhatthe.ltlsh · WQ\Jidgoalong~tosi>Mng<iiJrproblem(at need, especially in the red :zone. " Wfl), H& Is wt>rth wl!l11ing Of1;• ···· 
"We lett he was as good as any one In the \1· The slgnee . Brown, who was country," Holtz noted. · 13th b&sl lhird fastest 
BuNNING BACKS 
Although the immediate need wasllwiArllmi'·"': :'' by the exoneration of Randy Kinder and Farmer, a solid oorp of rl.lnning bapk is 4 essaty ingredient for Notre Dame su¢cess. 
Th.e Irish inked three tal · ·· Denson, James Jackson, Stephens. In .addition, nation's best fullback, Jamie 
tG$Pflnd the nEI)(f fOUr years unrl1Ar~M.if'\Mit4''''''' 
Of the tailbacks, Denson impressive credentials. Ranked ·ln. ·~wn····tru~ ~ as the country's ninth best 
he rushed tor over 4,000 c;lr$8r 
"They're some awfully good never had to go to our secondary ning back recruits)." 
•.,~ncar can be included Inthis 
Abig, bruising back, the 6th .._... "'··~•-· ' ($uperPrep) has evoked memorle$ of 
Bettis. 
"He just looks biggerthan your back." said Holtz. "He has. exe~celll&nt s and iS a leader. He has all the ingiredi~ 
Thomas and Bobby Howard, a high .. of Randy Moss provide mmi.!trkl~bta depth for Bob Davie to work with. 
SECONDARY 
tor the Irish, ttlia'~s one area dlsap•point;ment. 
did not resolve the cornerback as much as we would have like,• Holtz assessed. "We !llnswer.d a iot of questions on paper but cor· nerb;lck was lhe one we didn't meet." 
Still, A'Jani Sanders, a smallish sort, does 

boa$f considerable potential. . . Mother secondary prospect brought in was '"" 11afety Marlo Strayhorn. A Parade AII·Amer• 
lean: Strayhom is owns considerable size and is said to be able. to hit with lhe best of them. .ne.malle.214tackles during his final two years 
in Ohio. "''·"n"''"'"' Irish defensive back recruit who the praise of SufH'rPrep was Benny (.\uHbeaux, tttelr Sl!jventh best OB selection. 
$pgCfAL TEAM§ 
The glaring weakness of this year's team, Hollt was lmem upon drastically upgrading the quality of the Irish kicking game. 
Rated In the pre-season as lhe top klcker in America, Kevin Kopka was an earty signee. 
Nicknamed "Thuderfoot•, Kopka struggled somewhat his senior y.ear, but displayed a strong enough foot to be named to SuperPrep and 8/uechlp /Hustrated AII-Ameriean teams. 
"Kevin Kopka has a very strong leg," Hollz said. •1 expecl him to b& our placekicker." 
Perfect on PATs during his prep career, Kopka has the abllty to put the bail out of lhe ned-:zone on kickoffs with regularity. 
"I have kicked the ball through the uprights before (on kickoffs)," Kopka said. ·1·ve always had a dream of playing college footbalL" 

moVing up fiont also Hunter.Smlth Is the solution at punter. A tate-bloomt1ng Shelton Jourdan. two-time all-state (Texas} punter, Smith was !'He· Is a tremendoU$ • Holt:z praised. good enough to average over 40 yards per 
"He playslhe way great players should play.• punt In 30 attempts. .Bob Chmiel staff did. not stop there however. • Tim Sherman 



Rosenthal adds local flavor 
By MIKE NORBUT "Tim (Ridder) and I roomed together Associate Sports Editor on our visit, and we became good friends," Rosenthal said. "We still talk 
Mike Rosenthal never really liked about once a month." Notre Dame. At least until Notre Dame Ridder. a 6-7. 280-pound offensive liked him. 
lin.eman from Omaha, Nebraska, visited The 6-7, 290-pound Granger, Indiana during the same weekend with native always used to root for Michigan Rosenthal and Chad Clifton, a prospectand Penn State. But then he made his from Martin, Tennessee. recruiting visit. 
The three linemen were all dubbed "It wasn't until this year when I really first team All-Americans by USA Today,started to look into Notre Dame," 
which would have made the Irish an Rosenthal said. "Now I'm excited to intensely formidable force. 
come here and play." Add to that the incentive that all of The offensive tackle is the first local them have the chance to play next year, 
recruit since Adam Kane, a lineman and it would seem an easy decision. from Mishiwaka Penn High School, the "None of our linemen are going to 
same institution that produced play in front of one another," Holtz Rosenthal. 
assured. Kane transferred after two years to But Clifton decided to go elsewhere. Kentucky. making fullback Anthony Ridder decided to go to Notre Dame Johnson the last local prospect to make 
with his new friend. an impact for the Irish. Johnson played "I tried to figure out who I wanted to on the 1988 national championship be with for the next four years, and it team. was at Notre Dame," Ridder said. "If Rosenthal may not have become the they need me right away to start, I will. latest hometown prospect, though, had Otherwise, I'll work into the system." it not been for meeting some out-of­The two are not even here and they're town recruits. already friends. That's good chemistry. 

Recruiting 
continued from page 20 
offensive line, and special teams. 
Not only did Holtz snag great depth in each of these areas, he was able to get top-notch individual talent. 
Linebacker Kory Minor, out of nationally ranked Bishop Amat, was named the USA To­day defensive player of the year. He appeared on every list of top prep talent and brings big-play potential to Bob Davie's defense. 
Lacking both talent and depth in recent offensive line crops, Notre Dame was able to sign two USA Today first-team All­Americans. 
Mike Rosenthal, who grew up in the shadow of the Golden Dome in Mishawaka, brings his 6-foot-7, 290-pound frame to Joe Moore with excellent ability. 
Not to be overshadowed is Tim Ridder, him­

self a 6-foot-7, 280-pound potential mainstay on the Irish offensive front. "We needed offensive lineman," Holtz said. "I'm glad we got some good ones." He also sought some kicking talent. Again, he got it. 
"They (Kevin Kopka, a placekicker and Hunter Smith, a punter ) have better poten­tial than what we have on campus," Holtz stated. 
The same can also be said of fullback Jamie Spencer. He has great size, strength, and, importantly, speed. 
So, too, are comparisons of this year's class to the class of 1993. Considered to be Holtz' best, that class pro­duced five first round NFL draft picks. 
"That was a great class," said Holtz. "But you can't tell who is going to better yet. Talent and character-wise, this class com­pares favorably." 
That class, as great as it was, did not win a national title. This class. as good as it can be, should. 

Saving the best for last: Moss expected to finalize 
By TIM SHERMAN knows it is eminent. 
Assistant Sports Editor But, lacking the official word of a signing, Holtz was required by Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz NCAA regulations to keep his 
had the look of little kid waiting to enthusiasm hidden and refrain 
rip the wrapping of his last from talking about the 6-foot-5, Christmas toy yesterday at the 205-pound Moss. annual signing day press con­
ference. Still. even Holtz let hints slip
But instead of a fire engine or a about his expectations. new bike, Holtz was awaiting the "He is worth waiting for, that all unveiling of, quite possibly, his I have to say," Holtz quipped. 
finest recruit. That long-awaited "(Not being able to talk about gift is All-America wide receiver him) saved you guys a half an Randy Moss. hour of time." 
It is widely known that Moss has A brief couple words would all intention of signing with the have gotten the point across. 109 Irish. The recruiting services say career catches, 44 for touchdowns so. The wires say so. Even Holtz 
and state track champion. 


page 17 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, February 2, 1995 
• RECRUITING NOTES 
·­
Roberts helps Irish acquire Southern flavor 
Is the South Bend winter everything you thought it would be? 
Bring on the Spring in style with: 
THE WINTER DEFIANCE DANCE 
Brought to you by FLIP SIDE 


Now you ask, what is a winter defiance dance? 
nswer: A dance occurring in the winter where people act as if it was spring. Proper attire will be shorts and T-shirts. If sane (not applicable to F.S. officers), come dressed a little bit warmer and change when you get there. 
WHEN: Saturday, February 4 @ 9:00-1:30 WHERE: The 2nd floor LaFortune Ballroom HOW MUCH? Always the inevitable question, admission is $2.00 for ND and SMC students and $1.50 for Flip Side members. 
Any questions, call Jen (4653) or Mark (1582) for details. 
Assistant hits gold mine by 
following roots 
By MIKE NORBUT 
Associate Sports Editor 
Dave Roberts spent a lot of time in Florida and Louisiana over the last couple of months. 
But he didn't get a tan. 
What he did get, however, could be far more beneficial. 
Because of the offensive co­ordinator's many trips to the Sunshine State and the Bayou, he was able to land seven blue­chip recruits, six of whom were named to several ditl'erent All­American lists. 
The seventh, Shelton Jordan, a 6-4, 230-pound linebacker from Opelousas. Louisiana, was a relative unknown because he played for only two years. He spent his first two years as a tuba player in the band. 
"Shelton Jordan is a tremen­dous talent," Irish coach Lou Holtz said. "There's just a lot of positive things about him." 
And it was Roberts that brought this sleeper, along with the six other Southern recruits, to the forefront. 
The offensive coordinator went back to his roots in Louisiana. where he coached at Division 1-AA power Northeast Louisiana for five years. 
While coach of the Indians, Hoberts built a stellar repu-
New Irish show National Diversity 
1. 
Brown, Bobby 7. Howard, Bobby 13. Minor, Kory 19. Spencer, Jamie 

2. 
Bryant, Lamont 8. Jackson, James 14. Mueller, Alex 20.Stephens,Shannon 

3. 
Cerasani, John 9. Jackson, Jarlous 15. Ridder, Tim 21. Strayhorn, Mario 

4. 
Denson, Autry 10.Jones,Antwon 16. Rosenthal, Mike 22. Thomas, Joe 

5. 
Friday, Jimmy 11. Jordan, Shelton 17. Sanders, A'Janl 23. Wagner, John 

6. 
Guibeaux, Benny 12. Kopka, Kevin 18. Smith, Hunter 24. Wisne, Jerry 


tation for himself. one which down there." ROSES helped him sign such big names The focus was on skilled posi­The No. 1 source for Irish re­as Jordan, defensive back tions in this state, where the cruits this year was, not sur­Benny Guilbeaux, and fullback Irish landed wide receiver prisingly, Texas. Notre Dame Jamie Spencer. Bobby Brown, running backs landed five recruits from the 
Roberts was also able to woo Autry Denson and James Lonestar State, but it wasn't four players out of Florida, a Jackson and kicker Kevin just because of their reputation. region that generally does not Kopka. They got a little help from Bob give up its players to anyone "We could have had more Davie. besides powerhouses Miami, players from the state of Davie, who spent five years as Florida State, and Florida. Florida, but our scholarships Texas A&M's defensive guru, 
"Dave Roberts worked very are limited," Holtz apologized. went back to his stomping hard in Florida," Holtz said. "We were forced to turn some grounds to pull some strings. "He wears me out. I don't even away." What was on the other end know if he stayed in any hotels FINDING THE YELLOW many consider to be the best Texas has to offer. 
"I think the contact Bob Davie had in Texas really helped us a lot," Holtz commented. 
Notre Dame's Texan recruits include linebackers Joe Thomas and Jimmy Friday, cornerback A'Jani Sanders, punter Hunter Smith and running back Shannon Stephens. 
NOT JUST A PHYSICAL CHALLENGE 
Jimmy Friday, one of the most highly touted recruits out of Texas, has much more on his mind than just football. 
He has scholarly thoughts like computer engineering. 
The outside linebacker was a USA Today All-American choice, but he also carries a 4.4 grade point average on a 4.0 scale at Willowridge High School in Missouri City. TX. 
"The main factor in my deci­sion to come to Notre Dame was academics," he said. 
By the way, Friday recorded 110 tackles last season even though he missed two and a half games due to an ankle in­jury. 
DON'T CALL ME... 

Dreams of Tony Rice may be relived when the Irish welcome Jarious "Action" Jackson next fall. Jackson, a 6-2, 210-pound specimen from Tupelo, Mississippi, could be the option quarterback that Holtz has been looking for. 
"We looked at Jarious Jackson on film and were very impressed," the coach said. 

• WOMEN'S BASKETBAlL

-· 


Irish down Eagles, 87-66 

REAL FILMS 
By K.C. GOYER Sports Writer 
A message to any team that doesn't know about the Notre Dame women's basketball team's inside game. 
If you don't know, you better ask somebody. 
And a good place to start would be in Milwaukee, Wisconsin as the Irish defeated Marquette, 87-66, largely due to defense and a strong post game. 
"(Marquette) is not as strong as we are on the blocks," Coach Muffet McGraw said, and the Irish exploited that advan­tage as each starting forward scored double digits. 
Katryna Gaither, a sophomore center for Notre Dame, led the scoring with 19 points followed by senior forward Letitia Bowen with 18. 
Both players registered a dou­ble double as each pulled down 14 rebounds. Bowen played an all around outstanding game as she also contributed 6 assists and a game high 3 steals. Bowen was also 6 of 6 from the free throw line. 
Co-captain Carey Poor com­pleted the trio with 16 points, including a 3 for 3 success at the foul line. Poor grabbed a game high 5 offensive boards, and a total of 9 rebounds. 
The Irish dominated the boards as they outrebounded Marquette 58-34. Not one Marquette player reached dou­ble digits on rebounding. 
Notre Dame's guards were a substantial threat on both ends of the court. Beth Morgan hit for 18 points in addition to dishing for 3 assists. Freshman Mollie Peirick played a charac­teristically well rounded game with 8 points, 8 rebounds, and a game high 7 assists. 
Fightin' Irish tenacious de­fense kept Marquette 18 points below their current points per game average. 
"They like to run and shoot a lot of three [pointers]," McGraw said, "They're a team which 
Ifyou see 

..,, Sports happening, call The Observer at 631-4543 
usually scores a lot of points." 
The hot shooter from Marquette, Lori Goerlitz, was shut down last night as she hit only 2 of 12 from behind the three point arc, and never even attempted a shot from closer in. Goerlitz was held to 12 points below her season aver­age, and was previously hitting on 39% of her three point attempts. 
Marquette as a team was flus­tered on offense, as they shot 28% from the field, in compari­son to the Irish who connected on 52.2% of their shots. 

After last night's victory, Notre Dame is now 12-7 and has won 10 of their last 11 games. The Irish remain the only undefeated team in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference with a record of 7­0. 
Marquette was 9-4 entering the contest, and has been rated in the top 20 at various times during the season. Last year, the team advanced to the NCAA tournament. 
"(Marquette was) a big game for us," McGraw said, "It (was) a game we needed to win." 
Chit\ese Fast Food 

Bo..-ed with the dit\it\9 hall food? Ti..-ed of o..-de..-it\9 pizza? T..-y somethit\g diffe..-et\t­+-lave C~O?ST,Cl<Sdelive..-ed to yo~AI" do..-m 
Mon-Th.....s 11a.m.-9p.m. F ..i & Sat 11a.m.-10p.m. 
r-----------------------------..................................................................................................................................., 
I . C~OPST&CMS C~OPST-CMS II
i SHRIMP FRIED RICE C~E!!b~~~~)~T~,N i I s2.29 :s:Otia1s2 79
•IUQ-~ DOll•SWI & e 

I 
Reo. $2.79 Reg. $3.29
Scua'li:len•KiriQPaoOtia1 

Umll2 •Mil Coupon Only • Mly Not Be Um112 • Wdll COUpon Only • Mly Not Be 
I Combined Wdll Any Olhef Offer• expires 12-15-95 Combined Wdh Any Other Otter •expires 12-15-95 
l___...............................................---------------------------------------------··--·--·------------.1 
$6 minim"'m 



REEL STUDENTS 
REALLY ... 
ALL-NEW!!! 

STUDENT FILM FESTIVAL 
THE BEST FILMS BY STUDENTS FROM SORIN, DILLON, LEWIS, BREEN PHILLIPS, MORRISSEY, TURTLE CREEK, CAMPUS VIEW, LAFAYETTE SQUARE, AND MANY MORE 
FRIDAY AND SATURDAY FEB. 3 & 4 7:30 AND 9:45 PM CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
PRESENTED BY NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION &THEATRE 
LSAT• 
•GRE•MCAT 
l'low would you score? 
.out. 
es from Ka-teachers p you ace the real exam. 
· out on th... cost-free, 
ree opportunity. 1-800-KAP..TEST 

:res~rn~wr seat today! 
-at Notre Dame 
I 

Febr~ary 4, 1995 
'----~ 


KAPLAN 
SUBWAY's A.1. Steak &Cheese BACK BY POPULAR DEMAND!t) For alimited time only  Friday, February 10/7:00 p.m./ Joyce ACC  


Thursday, February 2, 1995 The Observer· TODAY page 19 



MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
j 

~--~~--~~L-~~3-~~~~--~ 

CROSSWORD ACROSS 29 Aussie's hello 30 Mortgage agcy. 
1 He reached his 33 Skylit courtspeak in 1806 34 Hoodlum5Wahine's 35 Oscar role in welcome "The Killing 10 Steep Fields" 
14 "--close to 
3& Where to buyschedule" Maid Marian 

15 Screened over 
mums? 16 "--Ever Need 
39 Goes out with Is You" 
40 Filthy lucre 17 Overpriced 
41 "I Love Trouble" 

insects? 
star 20 "Naughty, 
42 Pre-Columbian 

naughty!" 
43 Like falling off a 21 Three minutes 
login the ring 
44 Climbed up 22 Kosher 
45 40's White 23 O.R.'s locale House name 24 Party cheese 46 Fraud 2& --oneself 47 March honoree, (go) for short 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
18 Rather rival 
19 Castigate 
23 Components of 
locks · 
signature 
ORNAMENTS 
50 Express alternative 52 Kicker 
55 Scans departure screens? 
58 Science magazine 
59 "Cookery is become-": Burton 
&OFilm 
&1 Look 
&2 Looks at 
&3 Tabloid topics 
DOWN 
1 Spender, for one 
2"New Sensation" rock group 
3 Crackpot 4Gowrong 5 Tuneful &Abate 1 "The Plague" 
setting B Relinquished, as a football 9 Farm critter 
10 Western capital 
11 First name in fashion 12 J a i ­
2& He sings low 27 Mrs. Mertz 28 Cornered 29 Devout 30 Something 
extra 31 Expeditious­
ness 32 Chipped in 34Agrees 35 Tournament 
type 
37 Shade of gray 38 Available for duty 
~ 

MIKE PETERS 

43Grub 51 Kind of tradition 44 Treats 52 End-of-we,ek 
treacherously exclamation 45 Hindu ascetic 53 "This can't be!" 4&Aiarm 54 Vous-(you 47 Hog food are): Fr. 48 Considerable 56 Toy merchant 
volume Schwarz 49 Corn product 57 Emer. locale 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 
John McPhersontDrst by Umversal 
2-2 


···cv 

Schrlft. and Matthew Crowson of CALL 
at the ND/SMC RTL meeting tonight at 7: CSC. A reception in the CSC Coffee house will meeting. 
Applications for four spring break seminars. 
accepted through 10:00pm tonight at the Center 
Concerns; The Genter is offering experle , .. ,.~......."' OJ[}po;rtUiliti~.U!.... in Appalachia, w...,.. •••Qo .• , ........ IVIim-Ant Workers), and in Chicago 
emi.ro:nm.•ental issues). 

All sophomores interested In acting should tauan.ton for the Sophomore Four-4 one acts-by the Sophomore Class. Auditions 1 1;:,u:naa~y in the Notre Dame Room, 2nd floor experience or preparation needed. Lots of parts ....· of {un! Call Kate at x4837 with Questions. 
• 
Notre Dame 
NORTH DINING HALL Crtl.b & Corn Enchilada TJillgy Chicken Sandwich C}l~.::olate Chip Cookies 

··{:::•"'1''''"'1.1\V''· . 
Saint Mary•s 
Prime Rib BBQ Rihs Whole Kernel Corn 
SOUTH DINING HALL French Onion Soup Rice Valencienne Strawberry Tarts 

... 
r 


SPORTS 
page 20 
Thursday, February 2, 1995 
• foonuu..t 


"I've never stood here before and had a more impressive list of people coming in. Last couple years we've not been as successful as we liked but this year has been a successful one." -Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz 
Irish on top of recruiting heap 
By TIM SHERMAN 
cation. Assistant Sports Editor "I never stood up here and had a more impressive list coming
Losing has its privileges. At in." said Holtz. "I just hope least in terms of the recruiting 1•~,=.~.N;;O;;T;;A;;I;;D~Aal; they're as good as their reputa­tions and we can coach them as
wars.
Notre Dame can attest to that well as we recruited them." 
after their dismal 1994 season a. PIIM ST4Tir:i:e 
Why were the Irish able to gar­was followed by a bumper crop :: ~':!D!•• ~~;· 
ner such a talented and diverse 
of young talent, one which was 
group.ranked as the nation's best by See STORY page 1~{. 
Although he didn't give one publications such as Tom ••••••..... concrete reason, Holtz was able 
Lemming's Prep Report, 
to pinpoint a few significant fac-Bluechip Illustrated, and SuperPrep. 
tors. Yesterday, the Irish announced the signings 
"It was definitely a joint effort," said Holtz. of 24 top prospects and expect another com­
"Credit goes to the players, Bob Chmiel (themitment today from the nation's best wide 
Notre Dame recruiting coordinator), and the receiver, Randy Moss. 
entire coaching staff. It was an unbelievable "I think having such a disappointing sea­job." son did increase our resolve in recruiting," 
Another explanation could be the changessaid Irish coach Lou Holtz. "If it did, I don't 
implemented by Chmiel. 
want that next year." 
"We did a lot of things differently this If the Class of 1999 that was announced year," Holtz noted. "We had a better pulseyesterday is as good as advertised, he may 
on recruiting. Our weekend visits were not have to worry about it. 
·more productive."Notre Dame finished the critical recruiting 
A quick glance at the list of signees indi­season with eight Parade All-Americans 
cates such. 
(nine including Moss). In addition, 22 mem­
Notre Dame scored big wins at linebacker, bers of the class of 1999 were selected as All-Americans by at least one national publi­
see RECRUITING I page 16 





-Poor shooting aside, Irish win 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR sioned when he took over at Justice, who scored all 11 of his Associate Sports Editor the helm. points in the second half and "I like what we did defen­led four Irish players in double 
While not scoring high marks sively," stated MacLeod. "It figures.for aesthetics, Notre Dame 
wasn't a particularly good "I'd like to see him shoot eluded another obstacle in its game with good movement, but more, but he's content to run one-game-at-a-time march to­
our defense kept us in it." the offense." wards the postseason. 
However, it was the Notre The Irish also received a bigUtilizing a tenacious defense 
Dame backcourt that came contribution from lanky center and relying on experienced 
through in the clutch after the Matt Gotsch off the bench, who 
guard play, the Irish (13-7) 
Gaels had clawed back from a added 12 points and six re­were able to overcome a poor 
15 point deficit. bounds while Iona clampedshooting night to post a much 
A Jason Williams layup, a down on freshman phenom Pat needed victory over the Iona 
three pointer from Lamar Garrity, who was held to onlyGaels at the Joyce Center. 71­
Justice, and a four point play two second half points after 12 58. 
by Ryan Hoover pushed Notre in the first stanza. Garnering seven blocks, 15 
Dame back from the brink in "Gotsch gave us a big boost steals, and forcing 20 
the waning minutes. tonight," explained MacLeod. turnovers, the Irish showed 
"Lamar tends to bide his time, "He's been quiet lately, but why their straight man-to-man 
but he had some big hoops in tonight was a good game for has finally reached the level 
the last ten minutes of the him." 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 

that coach John MacLeod envi­
game," noted MacLeod of
Freshman forward Pat Garrity and the Irish used old fashion defense to defeat the Gaels of lona. see HOOP I page 14 
of note...
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Notre 

Last night, the Utah Jazz's John
A strong inside game powers the Irish 
Basket 

Stockton surpassed Magic 
past the Marquette Golden Eagles. 

.... 
Johnson to become the NBA's 
see page 18 
career assist leader. 







