
Tuesday, January 31, 1995 • Vol. XXVI No. 76 
TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Homosexual student group denied access 
By DAVE TYLER 
News Editor 
In a reversal of university pol­icy, administration officials have denied a gay and lesbian student group access to the one meeting place on campus open to it. In reaction, student lead­llrs of the group have pledged to present their cause to the eampus at large. 
Leaders of Gays and Lesbians of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's (GLND/SMC} were informed in a .January 23 meeting that they would be barred from gather­ing in the University Counseling Center, a facility the group has used for meetings for nine years. 
.John Blandford and Kelley Smith, co-chairs of GLND/SMC, said they were instructed by Father Peter Rocca that the ban would be effective immediately. Rocca said that the university's action was prompted by the group's decision last semester to advertise the location of the meetings. 
When reached by telephone, Rocca said that administration action was not targeted at indi­viduals or at GLND/SMC for their views. 
"This is part of a long-stand­ing university policy prohibiting groups that are not officially recognized by the University from using University facilities, and allowing certain privileges for recognized groups," he said. "It came to our attention that GLND/SMC was using the Counseling Center to conduct their official meetings. We've had other groups encounter the same problems before. It just happened to be GLND/SMC this time." 
"We want to be fair to organi­zations who have a right to use those facilities. We are not bar­ring individuals from seeking counseling at the Center," Rocca said. 
GLND/SMC leaders admitted to being stunned by the change in policy. 
"The administration has banned us from the space they have offered us for nine years, and no alternatives have been offered. The policy is a setback for the University, and a set­back for us as well," said Blandford. "It's a setback for those in the process of coming out of the closet, because they need some safe space to deal with their emotions." 

According to Smith, the change is a significant blow to the gay and lesbian population at Notre Dame. "GLND/SMC is the only organization at either school that has been actively responding to the needs of our community." 
During the fall 1994 semes­ter, the group began publicizing meeting locations, a first in GLND/SMC's decade long pres­ence at Notre Dame. Prevented by university policy from spon­soring lectures or other events, GLND/SMC has cooperated with several academic departments and campus organizations in the past to invite speakers to address issues surrounding sex­ual orientation. 
In the fall, Ron Nyswaner, screenwriter of the movie "Philadelphia," and civil rights 


Former Notre Dame baskeball coach, Richard "Digger" Phelps, is considering a run for the United States presidency in 2004. Phelps said his main focus will be to alleviate problems associated with urban crime and drug abuse. 
Phelps considering U.S. presidency 
By ETHAN HAYWARD programs. level, for change to be realized. "We have News Writer According to Phelps, these and similar never gone grass-roots. Trickle-down programs would teach children alterna­hasn't worked." 
Ike. Tricky Dick. The Gipper. Slick Willy. tives to violence and drug use and build He stresses the role that the use and Digger? What would seem like a far­partnerships within the community among sale of illegal drugs has played in the fetched scenario in the 1980's wouldn't be businesses, local leaders, social agencies, decline of urban neighborhoods. Phelps quite so implausible if former Notre Dame law enforcement, and educational in­specifically cited that the drug trade is a basketball coach Richard "Digger" Phelps stitutions. $50 billion a year business, but that the has his way. The ultimate motive in implementing profits from it are well-hidden. 
Phelps is considering a run for the presi­these programs, Phelps says. was to link He asserted that the U.S. constitutes five dency in 2004. His main objective is to the "haves" in a given community with the percent of the global population, but also alleviate the causes and effects of urban "have nots" in hopes of building a better constitutes 50 percent of the global drug crime and drug abuse by the nation's community for all. But these programs problem. Phelps dismisses the notion of young people. were cut off in 1993 when the presidency legalizing drugs, claiming that drug use "is He seeks to do this through federal was turned over to Bill Clinton, whose legalized if you have money". meaning grass-roots programs aimed at empower­cabinet members have thus far made no that those with health insurance are often Ing local neighborhoods towards economic effort to revitalize them. covered for rehabilitation and are often and educational viability. Now, Phelps has set the years between returned to their jobs once they have com­
Until 1992, Phelps headed a federal pro­now and 2004 as a tirrie frame for efforts pleted rehabilitation. gram called Weed and Seed, a grass-roots such as those he has been a part of to On the other hand, the "have nots" are effort to empower local communities. Its begin again. "If it's not changed in 2004, frequently put in jail and have difficulty aims were to use law enforcement agen­I'll do it myself. I just can't walk away finding jobs when their addictions are dis­cies to weed out the bad elements within a from it," he says. covered. 
given neighborhood, and then to seed the Phelps claims that reform must be initi­Phelps also stressed the need for liability community with after-school and mentor ated at the local level, not at the federal 
see PHELPS I page 4 

attorney Peter Cicchino visited campus with the help of GLND/SMC. 
On Thursday, February 2, GLND/SMC will be among sev­eral groups hosting Andrew Sullivan, editor of The New Re­public. Sullivan who is both gay and Catholic, will speak on the relationship between homosex­uality and the church. Bland­ford said Sullivan's lecture will go on as planned. 
GLND/SMC officials acknowl­edged that the university's move will have an effect on the organization's future function­ing. "Gays and lesbian are a very underserved part of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity. A diminished presence by GLND/SMC will have a big 
see ACCESS/ page 4 
Decisions for Kinder, Farmer issued today 
ByJOHN LUCAS Managing Editor 
The South Bend Tribune re­ported Monday that Notre Dame football players Randy Kinder and Robert Farmer will learn the outcome of their dis­ciplinary hearing in a meeting with a university administra­tive panel today. 
The three-person panel reached a verdict on Friday, drafted written notification on Monday, and will meet with the students involved today, ac­cording to The Tribune. 
The university reportedly will not issue a public statement on the panel's decision. Federal privacy laws bar university of­ficials from discussing student disciplinary matters. 
The Tribune reported last week that Kinder and Farmer were charged with battery by the Office of Student Affairs. All parties involved testified during a three-day hearing that ended Jan. 19. 
A female Notre Dame student has alleged that Kinder. Farmer and another man were involved in an incident at Grace Hall in the early hours of Oct. 16. 
The other man, a student at Indiana University in Bloomington, was not charged at the disciplinary hearings. 
According to DuLac, Kinder and Farmer could face disci­plinary probation, suspension, or even expulsion from the uni­versity. 
The Tribune cited unnamed sources that indicated the fe­male student may decide to pursue criminal charges if the university takes no action against Kinder or Farmer. 
The St. Joseph County Prose­cutor's office has no official ju­risdiction in the case unless complaint is filed with the of­fice. 
The Notre Dame Police De­partment is not obligated to re­port incidents to the prosecu­tor's office unless the person alleging the incident cooper­ates. 
The South Bend Tribune con­tributed to this report. 

....-------------------­
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, January 31, 1995 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Leaving a legacy of living or Catching those Kodak moments or 
??? 

Carpe diem ... seize th~------­
day! 
Or just live for the moment. 
In fact, live for the next few moments, as many as you like. 
If you were to die right now, after that brief bit of living, what would your grandchildren be able to Meaghan Smith say about you? Nothing, Assistant Viewpoint you say. You're not dat-Editor ing anyone right now, -------­much less planning the next generations of your future family, and if you died, you wouldn't be having grandkids, anyway. 
What would anyone be able to say about you right now? That you've jumped at every chance, seized every opportunity, and taken pictures of every Kodak moment? Chances are, as you reflect, you realize that you missed something. You may have missed more than you think. It's about time to stop missing life and start living it. 
The moment has never been more right to open your narrow mind and see the big picture. To catch the details, too. Stop staring at your shuffiing feet as you walk to class or run off to work and dare to stare life straight in the eye. Chances are, life won't run away. But you can't hide, either. 
Your mother, your roommate, and your major are not on the list of acceptable excuses. Your dog lost its appetite for your homework years ago. So that leaves you solely responsible for your own success and happiness. You're not alone, though. Thousands of other lost souls 'ust tossed aside everyone else's directions and headed for the nearest trail. 
Stop acting like the playing piece and start hauling your own weight around the board. Deal with the Chance and Pink Elephant cards as they come to you. And never, ever regret it. 
It's easy to blame someone else but it's impos­sible to get over the feeling of regret when you let time slip away, never to be lived again. Every moment is unique ... and very, very brief. It's easy to feel like you missed something. Next time, don't miss it. 
Like a boy scout, be prepared. Be prepared to take risks. Prepare to succeed. When you fail, prepare to learn some deep, life-changing les­son and prepare to do it over again. Even your parents had to learn somehow. How else would they have gotten so smart? But you still don't have to listen to them. 
Don't let people tell you how to live your very 

own life. They just don't want you to make the 
same mistakes, they say. They just want you to 
have it a little better than they did. What about 
forgetting better and living happier? Smile 
more than they did. Find some self-serving, 
fully gratifying activity and stick with it. 
Indulge a little. Listen to the little voice inside 
your head. Take the long way home and a few 
deep breaths. 
Relax. 
Stop living like a mushroom, always in the 

dark, and live for the moments. Because in ten 
years, that's all they'll be. And forgotten ones 
at that. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Production  
Gwendolyn Norglc:  David Diaz  
Jamie Heiser  Belle Bautista  
Sports  Accent  
Dave Treacy  Jenny Gunzelman  
Viewpoint  Graphics  
Megan Smith  Chris Mullins  
Lab Tech  
Eric Ruethling  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during c:xam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• Wmu..oAT A GLANCE 

Emperor Akihito visits earthquake victims in Japan 
NISHINOMIYA, Japan 
Two weeks after the devastating. earthquake in western Japan.~ Emperor Akihito is coming to visit victims. But Chieko Komura would· rather have a warm place to stay-· one that doesn't have to be shared with 1,100 people. 
"It may make some people here happy, but I'm too busy just getting by day to day," a shivering Komura said, bundled against the bitter cold· 
that  moved  into  this region  
Monday.  
The  Nishinomiya  City  

Gymnasium, where Komura and 1,100 other refugees from the Jan. 17 quake are staying, will be one of Akihito's first stops when he visits' quake victims Tuesday. 
As of Monday, the death toll from · Japan's worst earthquake in 70 years stood at 5,096. Most of the··· dead were from the port city of ESt.imettea Kobe and suburbs such as Nishinomiya. 
Thirteen people remain missing,.,, and 26,801 were injured. Officials .· in Hyogo Prefecture, the state that includes the hardest­hit areas, estimated Monday that it will cost $85.5 billion to repair damage from the 7.2 magnitude quake. 

"Our biggest concern now is that people will lose hope," said Sakamoto. "The emper­or's visit may help boost morale." 
The emperor does not often visit disas-
FFtlltMt...k,:~t ter sites, and few have openly complained of his absence. He took more than two weeks to visit northern Okushiri Island in 1993 after an earthquake-triggered tidal wave killed more than 200 people. 
However. some commentators criticized the palace bureaucracy for allowing Crown Prince Naruhito and Princess Masako to visit the Middle East three days after the earth­quake. The prince and princess cut their visit short. 
In Kobe, construction crews are restor­ing the city's infrastructure piece by piece. A train line from Kobe's western outskirts into the center of town started running Monday; officials expect it will take five or six months to restore the entire railway network. 
The government said it will increase its target for temporary housing from 19,000 to 30,000 units, but that's still far from enough. 
"The problem is getting the right things to the people who need them," said Daisuke · Nakamura, 22, a college student who has vol­
unteered at the Nishinomiya gym for the past 10 days. 
Kemp to bow out of 1996 GOP race Ads and 49ers win in Super Bowl 
WASHINGTON 
Former housing secretary and New York congressman Jack Kemp has decided not to seek the 1996 Republican presidential nomination, GOP sources said today. Kemp was returning to Washington from the Super Bowl in Miami and was not immediately available for comment, his office said. But Republican Party sources, speaking on condition of 

anonymity, told The Associated Press that Kemp has informed key associates that he would not enter the race. As he deliberated in recent weeks, Kemp told associates he was not sure his message fit with the aggressive agen­da of House Republicans. He opposes term limits, for example, and has said tax cuts to stimulate the economy should take precedence over balancing the federal bud­get. 
Terrorist trial begins in New York 
NEW YORK 
Sheik Omar Abdel-Rahman and his followers plotted to cut a bloody and spectacular swath of destruction across the city in a war of urban terrorism against the United States, a prosecutor said today in his opening statement. "This is a case about war," Assistant U.S. Attorney Robert Khuzami told the jury. "The enemy is the United States. The battlefield the streets and tunnels of New York City. "The soldiers who fought this war are seated before you." Abdel-Rahman and 11 of his Muslim-funda­mentalist followers are on trial in the largest terrorism case in U.S. history. Khuzami described the centerpiece of the conspiracy as a plan to set off 12 bombs across the city in one day, targeting the United Nations and tunnels and a bridge linking the city and New Jersey. If convict­ed, Abdel-Rahman could face life in prison. In all, 12 defense lawyers will give opening statements. The defendants also allegedly plotted to assassinate Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak and kidnap former President Nixon and former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger. 
NEW YORK 

By the time Honda's commercials ran in the waning moments of the Super Bowl, the game's outcome had long been decided. Not to worry, even when the Super Bowl is a blowout, people watch as much for new ads as for football. the folks at Honda said. ABC sold ads throughout the game for an average of $1 million per 30 seconds, a record for television. The Bud Bowl, which consisted of one commercial this year rather than the typical four, ended with island castaway Iggy beamed in to score the winner for Budweiser. McDonald's conclud­ed a long-running campaign that had two diehard fans arriving ticketless at the Super Bowl. Basketball great Michael Jordan gave them his tickets on a sideline bench. Frito-Lay parachuted Jason Alexander of "Seinfeld" onto a football field for Rold Gold pretzels. For second-half sponsors, the question was whether the telecast would retain its audience even after the winner was clear. 
Pilot's last words: Thank you 
WASHINGTON 

After waiting nearly 45 minutes for permission to land, the pilot of the American Eagle ATR-72 that crashed last Oct. 31 in Indiana thanked ground controllers for news that he would be cleared shortly. The plane was never heard from again. More than an hour of tape-recorded conversations by Chicago-area air traffic controllers, released Monday by the Federal Aviation Administration, reveal little new about the accident. At 3:56 the con­troller told Flight 4184 to descend to 8,000 feet and told the pilot it "should be about 10 minutes, uh. till you're cleared." The pilot replied: "Thank you." At 3:59 the tower radioed: "Eagle Flight 184 radar contact is lost, are you on vector seven or, ah, in the turn, ah, south­bound in your hold?" No answer. At 4 p.m.: "Eagle Flight 184, radar contact is lost, can you tell me where you are, you're at, are you on vector seven or are you proceeding southeast in the hold?" No answer. During the next few minutes the tower calls Flight 4184 some 15 times, asking the plane to respond, without result. 
• INDIANA WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
Thesday, Jan. 31 Accu-Weather• forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
OHIO 
ILL. 

C 1995 Accu-Wealher. Inc. 
p_.,. 
H L EB ~ !Til 0 -~ § i) ~ u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T.STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUOf CLOUOf 
...--
Auanta 39 34 New Orteans 53 42
Dallas 53 31 Battlmore 42 32 New York 44 26
Denver 57 22 Boston 43 24 Los Angeles 80 58 Philadelphia 42 25 
Columbus 33 17 Minneapolis 29 18 St. Louis 32 22
01995 Accu·Woalhor. Inc. 




r---~-----------------~--­
Tuesday, January 31, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 3 

Coleman gives students creative dating ideas 

By PATRICK BELTON 
News Writer 
Go to a stranger's wedding. 
Head The National Enquirer. 
Have a Cabbage Patch Doll cliff-diving party. 
According to Dave Coleman, a lecturer and author from Xavier University, these ideas for creative dates can help you build relationships "even though you're in South Bend and might be broke." 
Coleman shared these in­sights on romance, along with other advice and about 250 more dating ideas, in a Creative Dating workshop held in the LaFortune Ballroom last night. 
Coleman began by quoting television's Parker Lewis on asking out members of the opposite sex: "If you ask them, they might not go out with you. If you don't ask them out, they'll never go out with you." 
A date is "any event that al­lows you to spend meaningful time with a significant other in 
~ ~­

w-----------~
Bring In --This Ad 
I I 

I 
I Give From 
I

I The Heart And 
I


Save A Life! 
I 

Eun 




szgoo Cash:I 
I 
for your life-saving blood plasma donation If you present your Notre Dame I.D. I I I

Conll' To: Amerk,tn Rinnll'dic,tl Center :; I:; Linwlm\,1\ \\'e,t•Snuth Bend 
I 
OPEN: Mond.t)·friday 9-6•Saturd.t) H-5 
I
LaSalle 
Licensed By the Federal Government 
I 
Bring In This Ad 
~-----------.l.l 
the hopes that you'll spend in­creasingly more time with them in the future," according to Coleman. 
Men should hold doors and write notes but avoid checking their watches or discussing sports, he said. He also sug­gested that men try preparing their dates candlelight dinners from scratch. 
Women should learn about sports and try asking men out on dates; they shouldn't com­pare their dates to other men or take excessive time in re­sponding to date offers, ac­cording to Coleman. 
See Student Dating Poll, Page 9 
Coleman also offered several "barrier buster" questions to begin conversation: "Can you roll your tongue?/Prove it"; "Do you have an in-y or out-y belly button?/What does that mean about you?/Can I see it?"; and "What animal are you most like?" 

"THE FINEST IN OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING" 
·FOUR AND FIVE BEDROOM TOWNHOMES ·TWO BATHROOMS ·SECURITY SYSTEMS ·KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE 
DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR, AND RANGE ·WASHER AND DRYER IN EACH UNIT ·GAS HEAT -cENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING ·PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT ·24-HOUR MAINTENANCE ·ONE MILE FROM THE NOTRE DAME 
CAMPUS 
NOW LEASING FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 
232-8256 
Romantically inclined stu­dents should exercise caution with television and alcohol, he said. In America the typical marriage ends in divorce in 3.5 years, and alcohol and televi­sion are responsible for much of this instability, according to Coleman. 
Alcohol distracts couples from their relationships and height­ens the risk of unwanted sexual activity, he said. Couples should spend time building their rela­tionships, according to Coleman. 
Coleman, who directs the Student Activities and Univer­sity Center at Xavier University as well as his own lecturing and consulting firm, has recently written a book titled 101 Great Dates and is beginning a radio 

The Observer/ Brandon Candura 

talk show and newspaper col­
Speaker Dave Coleman shared his ideas for creative dating and con­

umn. 
versation topics in his lecture yesterday in the LaFortune Ballroom. 

PALANCA NIGHT 

The Observer 631-5323 

Abbott Laboratories 
is now accepting resumes for its Financial Professional Development Program 
Interested senior accounting or finance majors should bring resumes to the Career and Placement Office January 30, 31, and February I 
a 


Quality Health Care Worldwide 
If you see news happenin3, 
call 


------------------~----­
Tuesday, January 31, 1995 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS 
Andrew Sullivan

David Mamet's 
Editor: The New Republic 

American Buffalo 
THE GAY CATHOLIC pARADOX 


Thursday, February 2 7:30PM Hesburgh Library Auditorium Free Admission 

A talk on Theology and Homosexuality 
This event has been sponsored by : Graduate Student Union • The Student Union Board Department of Theology The Counseling Center 
Gender Studies P~gram . Department of Sociology
Directed by 
Graduate TheologiCal Umon .......,...,.......,. American Studies Dept. 
Department of Government and International Studies 

Stephen Susco 
February 2-4, 1995 Washington Hall Mainstage 8:10pm 
$3.00 Reserved Seating Tickets on sale now at the LaFortune Information Desk 





1i!Make '95 
Produced l:>Y the Notre Dame Student Players Produced by speCial arrangement with Samuel French, Inc. 
:llii a s er to ';!lli:remember. • • 
•• NOTE : play contains profanity and harsh language 
Jerry Leamon 
and one you'll get credit for, while attending the Columbia University Summer 
NATIONAL MANAGING 
Session. Whether you want to get ajump on the competition or gain
DIRECTOR 
personal enrichment, Columbia offers adiverse range of graduate and 
OF TAX SERVICES 
undergraduate day and evening courses in the Humanities, Sciences 
and Social Sciences.
Deloitte & Touche LLP 
Our '95 offerings include:
Will be Speaking on: 
Anthropology-Art History -Biology-Chemistry ­Classics -Computer Science -East Asian Languages and Cultures -Economics -English and Comparative

CAREERS IN TAX 
Literature -French -Geology -German -History ­International Affairs-Italian-Journalism-Music­
TuesdayJanuary 31st 
New York City Related Courses-Philosophy­Physics -Political Science -Psychology -Religion ­
Room 122 Hayes-Healy 
Sociology-Statistics-Writing -Yiddish ... to name a few. Plus, our Overseas Programs in Italy and France.
Pizza at 6:3 0 p.m. Call for our complete course listing
Presentation at 7:00p.m. 
{212) 854-5109
PresentedbyNDI'REDAME AcmuNnNG Assoo:AnoN and BETAAlmAPsi 
Or fax us 
(212) 854-6316

h~ CR£AT WALL 
Our e-mail address: 

Voted # 1 Oriental Restaurant 
summersession@columbia.edu
1991, 1992, and 1993 Summer Session Office, Columbia University
Banquet rooms 

Szechuan • Cantonese • American 
303 Lewisohn Hall, Morningside Heights
available for 

Chinese Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 days 
New York, NY 10027
up to 200 

Sunday Buffet Brunch -Every Sunday $8.95 for Adults 
w h e r e t_ h ~ i_ v_ y c I i m b s t o n e w h e i g h t s Columbia Un1vers1ty IS an affirmative action/equal opportunity institution. 

Phelps 
continued from page 1 
laws in drug-related crimes similar to the ones involved in alcohol-related crimes. 
Another major problem con­tributing to urban blight, ac­cording to Phelps, is the fre­quent relocation of businesses and industries to areas with lower property taxes, leaving hundreds of workers unem­ployed and searching for a means of economic survival. Drug trafficking is often the means determined to be the most profitable, he says. 
All the fingers pointed at Washington politicians don't do anyone any good, Phelps said. "We let it get this bad. People are the change." 

He claims there is a need for a new mentality in dealing with the problems of inner-cities. Phelps currently manages men­tor and community assessment programs around the country. The mentor programs involve students and professionals sharing their occupations and activities with children in ele­mentary school. 
The other programs involve identifying the assets of a par­ticular community and making those assets available to all in hopes of creating neighborhood businesses and social pro­grams. 
Phelps calls this local initia­
tive "getting his hands dirty," 
something those in Washington 
apparently refuse to do. He 
wants to help "coach the coun­
try in playing the game of life. I 
know this can work." 

Access 
continued from page 1 

impact on those we serve," said Smith. 
Blandford said the Universi­ty's action may force GLND/SMC into a more visible role on campus. "W.e'll just have more meetings in public, in the Huddle or on the steps Golden Dome," he said. "We'll exercise our right to assemble." 
Plans are also in the works for GLND/SMC to appeal for support from the Faculty Sen­ate, the Student Senate, and the Graduate Student Council. 
"We have already spoken to 
representatives from each of 
these bodies," he said. "But 
perhaps ND is unintentionally 
helping us by forcing 
GLND/SMC further out of the university's closet. 
The administration's decision to bar GLND/SMC from the Counseling Center comes just as the group has learned that it earned a foundation grant. During the holiday break GLND/SMC was awarded a $2,000 dollar grant from the Chicago Resource Center, a foundation that supports the efforts of gay and lesbian groups. 
The grant is intended to sup­port the general operations of GLND/SMC during 1995 and Blandford finds it "a bit ironic that while GLND/SMC's work is being· recognized as important by philanthropic foundations, Notre Dame wants to punish us for the very same activities." 
Rocca denied any suggestion 
of an effort to punish 
GLND/SMC for their views. "The University is currently looking for a mechanism where both sides of this issue can be com­fortable, within the mission of the University and the needs of the gay and lesbian community at Notre Dame. 
Co-chairs Blandford and Smith said that they are not en­couraged by the stance of the Office of Student Affairs. "We were told at (the January 23) meeting that the Office of Stu­dent Affairs and Campus Min­istry were planning to meet our needs," said Smith. 
Blandfo.rd concurred. "The Office of Student Affairs has had ten years to define policy and offer services to lesbians and gays here, but instead they walked away. I have to believe that present expressions of their concern for our well-being may be somewhat disingenu­ous."' 

____,_ ...
----~~-~--·----~ 
-~~-----~-----~--~~ 
--~--------------~------~-­
Tuesday, January 31, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Wilson tells interracial couples to be realistic 
By KRISTI KOLSKI Nrws Writer 
Interracial couples must be realisitic, according to Terry Wilson, a recently retired pro­fessor of ethnic studies at the University of California at Berkeley. 
In his lecture "Crossing the Hacial Divide: Helationships, Marriages and the Hacially Mixed," Wilson outlined the his­tory of interracial relationships and the reality of emotions felt in contemporary America. 
Wilson, the son of a Potawatomi Indian father and a Caucasian mother, grew up on a reservation in Oklahoma at a time when mixed-race people rarely talked about their back­ground. 
"We have to deal with peo­ple's perceptions of reality. The nature of human kind is to lind differences and then divide themselves," Wilson slated. 
Wilson cited five common 

come to a free 
I I

LSAT seminar I I 
Date:  Tuesday, January 31 f  
Time:  7:30-9:30 pm  
location:  119 DeBartolo Hall  

Call: 1-800-KAP-TEST 
• As documenled In lhe May 1994 Kaplan LSAT Penonnance Sludy conducled by Pnce Walemouse. 
Come to a free GMATseminar 
Time: 6:30-8:30 pm 117 DeBartolo Hall 
Call: 1-800-KAP-TEST 
get a higher score



KAPLAN
customized, flexible approach to GMAT study ever. 
.....

come to a free GREseminar 
I 
GRE 
Date: Tuesday, January 31 

1-800-KAP-TEST 
r...: 7-9pm ' get • higher score 
Location: 118 DeBartolo Hall 
KAPLAN 



HURRY!! TODAY IS THE LAST DAY TO SIGN UP FOR THE 
LEADERSHIP 
INSTITUTE 
an opportunity for outstanding freshmen and sophomores to attend a series of leadership development seminars 
Applications must be returned to the Student Activities Office by January 31. For an application and/or more information, contact the Student Activities Office, at 631-7308, 315 LaFortune Student Center. 
folklore notions of why people date across racial lines. Often, couples are judged as seeking something different. It is be­lieved that they are involved in the relationship as an act of eroticism, as seeking upward mobility, or as a rebellious movement in extreme racial liberalism. 
Lastly, folklore beliefs stereo­type interracial couples as a sign of dissatisfaction with the opposite gender in their groups. 
The focus for interracial cou­ples today should be how to make their relationships suc­cessful in a society with precon­ceived notions. Wilson high­lighted a five point plan formu­lated by the author of Mixed Matches, Joel Crohn, Ph.D. 
Wilson said that interracial couples need to face the issues. "Be realistic in that there will be some people who will not like it." Citing his own interra­cial marriage to an African American woman, Wilson said 

KAPLAN 
Thesday nights from 7:00pm to 8:30pm in the Notre Dame Room 
"friends are allowed to have their own opinions but they are not allowed to voice them in our mutual presence." 
According to Wilson, couples of different races need to clarify their different cultural codes. "One should not put on an act," Wilson said. 
Each person should deal with the reality of their own identity. "You have been one thing all your life and trying to adopt another won't work; resent­ment will build," stated Wilson. 
Next, become aware of the social context. Interracial cou­ples must make an honest appraisal of how people will re­act. 
Each individual must find their own path and make sure children have a clear under­standing of the interracial situation, he said. 
"Children must be prepared for the realities of societies feel­ings," Wilson cautions. 
Wilson encourages any per­son involved in an interracial relationship to make their deci­sions knowing that it is "legal, moral and ultimately nobody's business but our own; just be 

realistic." 

Welcomes Partners Insurance 
Starting February 1st, 1995 We have 9 convinient Michiana locations Please Call 1·800· Walgreens to find store nearest you 
ND grad missing after crash 
By EDWARD IMBUS Nrws Writer 

Glennon Kersgieter, a Notre Dame graduate and naval fighter pilot, has been declared missing at sea, a precursor to being presumed dead, after crashing in a training exercise off California. 
Kersgieter's Hornet jet plunged into the Pacific on Sat­urday night soon after takeoff from the USS Abraham Lincoln. A search was prompt­ly initiated, but was halted after 14 unsuccessful hours, according to Dennis McGrath, a spokesman for the Navy. 
Kersgieter was a resident of Alumni Hall, who after gradua­tion in 1986, entered the Navy's Officer Candidate School. He finished strongly in his class, and rose to the rank of lieutenant. 
The Navy did not release de­tails as to the site of the crash, but Lt. Cmdr. John Brindley said such training operations are conducted 50 to 100 miles offshore. 
Kersgieter and his jet were assigned to Strike Fighter Squadron 22 at the Lemoore Naval Air Station in the San Joaquin Valley. The exercise operations Kersgieter was par­ticipating in were in prepara­tion for an upcoming six­month deployment, said Brindley. 
This marked the fourth Navy jet to crash since October 25, when an attempt to land on the same aircraft carrier failed. 
Recycle The Observer 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, January 31, 1995 

Kimmel explains gender issue myths and realities 
By AMY SCHMIDT 

News Writer 
Men and women should understand that many gender issues must be seen from both points of view, according to Michael Kimmel, professor of sociology at the State University of New York at Stonybrook. 
In his lecture, "Clarence, William, Iron Mike, Magic, and Us: Male-Female Relationships in the 1990s," Kimmel at­tempted to "set a context for ish. In 1990, in response to the same question, 58 percent of women said they believed men to be selfish. 
"This poll indicates that wom­en's lives have changed so much in the past 25 years that their expectations have also changed," Kimmel said. 
Kimmel went on to give four areas in which women's lives have changed; women have made gender visible, and fe­male roles have changed in the are significant because "gender is one of the primary building blocks of identity." 
However, there has been no comparable change among males, according to Kimmel. He said that throughout history, men have been taught four things: "don't be a sissy, be a big wheel, be a strong oak, and give 'em hell." At the crux of this problem is the constant struggle for proving manhood, according to Kimmel. 
said. 

Kimmel said that a solution to this problem is the support of women's efforts, and the need to see issues such as parental leave, child care, and flex time not just as women's issues, but as parents' issues. 
Closing with a line from a poem by Elizabeth Barrett Browning, which said that "all men are possible heroes," Kimmel encouraged the audi­ence to take those words seri­ously. 
Part two of his lecture,"The Men's Movement in the 1990s," will be presented in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium at 4 p.m. today. Both presenta­tions are part of the lecture se­ries, "Masculinity in the 1990s: The Social Construction of Be­ing Male." 
the issues men are facing in the workplace, the family, and sex­"Masculinity becomes a con­
If you would like to tutor children with the
90s." uality. stant, relentless effort of prov­He said that these changes ing you're. not a sissy," Kimmel 
NEIGHBORHOOD STUDY HELP PROGRAM 
Drawing on the example of 

these times are available:
Clarence Thomas and Anita r--===--------==-=:------------., Hill, Kimmel explained the ., 



IM I 
media's effect upon national 

oas as ers 
opinion. He said that after the 

MONDAY/WEDNESDAY
Thomas hearings, the media 2:20-3:45 LAFAYETTE Boo x4174
~:!i~!e~h:t ..~~~:~gd~s~~~;a~~ lnl .rnatJ• I nal 
2:30-3:45 EGGLESTON Boo x4174
them from speaking up about sexual harassment. 

2:30-3:30 DARDEN Jen 284-4353 2:30-3:30 SWANSON Randolph x1154
Kimmel said that the exact opposite was true. He said that 

3:00-4:00 DICKENSON Tricia 271-7009
Notre Dame Chapter
the Thomas case actually 

3:00-4:00 LINCOLN • Tricia 271-7009
prompted women to express their feelings. 

4:00-5:00 ST. STEPHEN'S Jen 284-4353
Public speaking organization 
"There has been a national 

4:10-5:00 WESTERN BRANCH LIBRARY 
thaw, and (women) have been Open to all students-those who need to continually articulating the way 
Meghan 277-6437 

they are treated in both public improve skills & good speakers who can help and private," said Kimmel. 
those who aren't confident. 
TUESDAY/THURSDAY
Quoting sociological polls from the 1970s and the 1990s, 

T{f 1:00-2:00 KENNEDY Brigid x1469
Meetings every Tuesday 
Kimmel illustrated a change 
that has been taking place in 

T{f 2:30-3:30 MARQUETTE 
female opinion. 7:00 to 8:00 p.m. 
Meghan 2 77-6437 T{f 3:30-4:30 LA CASA Stephanie x2956
He named a statistic which 222 Hayes-Healy said that in 1970, 42 percent of 
T{f 5:30-6:30 HANSEL CENTER 
women believed men to be self-1st Meeting Tonight 
Nicole x2695 
Only $1,770. Or about $33. amonth.' 



Beforeyou makeasinglepayment, you'll have readazillion pagesfor 4different classes, anotherSuperBowlwill have passedwith co ercials better thanthegame andyou'll be making yourquarterlyvisitto the Laundromat. 
BUY AN APPLE MAC::INTOSH NOW. PAY FOR IT LATER."  erals without making asingle paymentfor 90 days: Combine that with no hassles,  
We're not just making it easier for you to buy aMacintosh: we're making it easier  no complicated forms and already great student pricing, and the easy-to-use  
for you to buy something else you really need-time. Because for alimited time, with the Apple Computer Loan and 90-Day Deferred Payment Plan, you can own a Macintosh personal computer, printer, CD-ROM drive or other periph- Macintosh is now incredibly easy to buy. The Apple Computer Loan and 90-Day Deferred Payment Plan. The solution that gives you the Ap 1 -power every student needs. The power to be your best~ p1e.a  

Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB •631-7477 M-F9am-5pm 
Veferred Apple Computer Loan offer expires February 17, 1995. No payment ofinleresl orprincipal will be rrJqUiredfor 90 days. (Some resellers may require a deposit to bold merrhandise wbile ilJan is being~) 1n1ms1 
accruing during this 90-day period will be added to principal, andthe principal amount, as SQ increased, will tbereafler bear inleresl wbidJ will be induded in the repayment schedule. 'Montbly payment is an es/imall! based on the foiJowin& informaliiJn: For the Power Macintosh 8100 system shown here, apurchasepria of$4,935, wbidJ includes 5% sales tax; indudin& ilJanfees, the total ilJan amaunl is $5,222.22, wbk:h resuiJs in a IIWnlhlypayment obi/gallon
of$87. For the Performa 636 CD system slwwn here, apurchasepria of$1,85850, which includes5% sales tax; includin& ilJan fees, /be total ilJan amoun/ is $1,966.67, wbidJ resuiJs in a monlblypayment obligation of133. Computer system prices, ilJan amounts and sales taxes may vary. See your authorizedApple Cam{JUS Rese/Jer or representativefor current system prices, ilJan andtax amounls. Loans arefor a minimum of$1,000 to a IIIIU1mum of$10,000. IVu 
may take out more than one ilJan, but the total ofall loans canna/ exceed $10,000 annually. A55% ilJan originaJion fee will be added to the rrJquested ilJan amount. 1be inleresJ rale is variable, based on the commercialpaper rate plus 5J5%. For the monlh ofNovember, 1994, the inleresl rate was 10.85% with an Annual Pm:enlage Rale of12./!ffo. 8-year ilJan term with no prepaymentpenally. 1be monlbly payment andthe Annual Pm:entage //ale shown 
tJ.<StJtnt the 90-day deferment ofprincipal andinlmsJ described above and no other difemrenJ ofprincipal or inlmsl. Students may deferprincipalpayments up to 4years, or unlilgraduation. Deferment will changeyour monlbly payments. 1be Apple Compurer Loan is subject to credil approval. Apple Computer Loan and 90-Day Deferred Payment Plan offers available only to qualifying students, facuiJy and staff. 0./fors available onlyfrom ){fileor an outhorizedApple Campus Rese/Jer or representoJit.e ©1994Apple Compuler; Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, Madnlcsh, Performa and '7bepower to beyour best'' are regislen!dtrademarlls ofApple CompuJer; Inc. AppleDesign 
andPower Macinivsh are lrodemarks ofApple CompuJer; Inc. 
Tuesday, January 31, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Cancer drug is effective treatment for anemia 
By LAURAN NEERGAARD 
Associated Press 
BETHESDA, Md. 

A cancer drug has proved to be the first effective treatment for sickle cell anemia, a dis­abling blood disorder affecting 72,000 black Americans. 
The drug hydroxyurea re­duced the excruciating attacks of sickle cell so dramatically that the National Institutes of Health ended drug trials four months early, and on Monday notified 5,000 doctors of the treatment. 
"Patients must understand hydroxyurea is a treatment, not a cure," cautioned Dr. Samuel Charache of Johns Hopkins University, who led the study funded by the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute. And the drug, which carries some risks of its own, is not for all sickle cell sufferers. 
Still, "it's very exciting," said Ralph Sutton of the Sickle Cell Disease Association of America. "This means a significant im­provement in the quality of life for people with sickle cell dis­ease." 



appy 

Birthday Jeremy! 
How does it feel to 
be 24? Love. 

DAD 
Sickle cell anemia, an inher­ited disease common among people with ancestors from Africa, the Middle East and the Mediterranean, causes hemo­globin inside red blood cells to clump together. That changes the normally round cells into a sickle shape that can't squeeze through tiny blood vessels. 
Patients, whose tissue doesn't get adequate blood, suffer pain so severe it frequently requires long hospitalization. The dis­ease eventually causes organ damage, and patients fre­quently live only into their 40s. 
About 8 percent of black 
Americans carry the gene. There is no cure, only treat­ment for pain, and until now, no way to prevent symptoms. 
In the study released Monday, doctors tested 299 adults with severe sickle cell beginning in 1992. Half took hydroxyurea every day, the others a placebo. 
Hydroxyurea reduced by 50 percent patients' pain episodes, hospitalizations, need for blood transfusions and cases of a life­threatening complication called acute chest syndrome. 
Ruthie Abney, 40, of Wash­ington once endured weeklong hospitalizations at least eight 

Mandatory Meeting! 
6:00 p.m., Wednesday, February 1st 
Montgomery Theater LaFortune 
times a year. Since beginning the drug in 1992, she has suf­fered only six pain crises, none severe enough to require hospi­talization. "I can't begin to re­late to people what it means to be pain-free and live a normal life like anyone else," she said Monday. 
Hydroxyurea appears to work by stimulating the body to pro­duce a type of hemoglobin found in fetuses, a kind that re­sists sickle cells' clumping. "It's like the chaperone at a dance, keeps the molecules from get­ting too close together," Charache explained. 
After birth, fetal hemoglobin's gene becomes dormant and an adult type susceptible to sickle cells' stickiness forms. But Monday's study found the cells of hydroxyurea takers con­tained 20 percent fetal hemo­globin -enough to battle the disease. 
Hydroxyurea is already on the market as a cancer drug, and doctors can legally pre­scribe any drug for any pur­pose. 
But NIH warned that only adults with severe sickle cell ­about 10 percent of sufferers­should take hydroxyurea, a po­tent cancer drug that may pose the risk of leukemia. Patients must take it every day for life. 
Spring Break Setninars March 12-18, 1995 Experiential/Service Learning Center for Social Concerns  
APPALACfiTASENnNAR -Service Learning at one of ten sites in the Appalachian region -One credit Theology MIGRANT EXPERIENCES SEMINAR -Work in the fields with migrant workers -Assist agencies that serve migrants -One credit Theology ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES SEMINAR -Examine recycling, solid waste centers directly -Consider ethical aspects of environmental concerns -One credit, Chicago-based seminar WASHINGTON SEMINAR Our Violent Society -Direct contact with political, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. -Service and political awareness opportunities -One-credit Theology or Government  
Applications Available Now at the CSC Application Deadline Extended for all Seminars until Thursday, February 2, 1995, 10:00 p.m.  

God gives each personone lifetime. What are you doing with yours? 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame tor college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 631-6385 
Opening  
FREE  Hours: Till 1 AM Sun­ 
ELlVERY Lunch and  Thurs 'Till 2 AM Fri and Sat  
Regular Hours  Lunch 11-2  

Spring-Special 
14 INCH 2 ITEM PIZZA-$7 INCLUDESTAX 2-12 INCH 6 ITEM PIZZAS-$10 INCLUDES TAX 


273-3890 
. 

.. S T I L L T H E B E S T '' 
. ---·---·~-·-------....._---~~------......-_
_,__ 




VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Tuesday, January 31, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAJNT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager john Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager ................. .Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor.......................Scon Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director...............Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor............... Eiizabeth Regan Controller........••...........•.•....•........ Kristen Manina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­£ion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Ediror, Accent Ediwr, Photo Ediwr, Sporrs Ediwr. and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns presem the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Obstrver. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of vatying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Sports 631-4543 News/Photo 631-5323 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 General Information 631-7471 
Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 Office Manager 631-7471 Fax 631-6927 · E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 

• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
An eye for an eye ... 
Dear Editor: 
This is in response to the edi­torial entitled "Losing sight of life and its sanctity" by Dave Tyler, January 27. I emphati­cally disagree with several of his points. 
He said, of the violence that is occurring as a result of the con­troversial abortion issue, "No one on the side of the 'right to life' groups seems to be stand­ing up and yelling 'stop.'" I was in Washington, DC with the ND/SMC Right to Life group the weekend of the March for Life, and I witnessed the many pro­life speakers who preached non-violence at the rallies. I was at the incredible pro-life Mass, when the Cardinal offer­ing the Mass urged all support­ers of the right to life move­ment to stay away from vio­lence as a means of ending abortion. No true pro-life sup­porter can ever be in favor of violence or murder. To be any other way would be completely hypocritical. 
As for Reverend Donald Spitz, he is a disgrace to pro-lif­ers. His statement that "any means necessary to prevent abortions are justified" is ex­treme and wrong. A true pro­lifer believes that any means within reason should be used to prevent abortions. Violence is not acceptable, and murder makes the problem worse in­stead of helping to end the ter­mination of innocent lives. One cannot base his or her view of the pro-life movement on peo­ple such as John Salvi and Donald Spitz. It is too bad that those people are the ones who receive the press coverage and not those who faithfully pray outside abortion clinics, try to educate women on their options, and participate in peaceful events, such as the March for Life. 
Second, Tyler said that peo­ple such as John Salvi make "organizations like ... ND/SMC Right to Life. _. seem less radi­cal." The Right to Life club does not consider this act by Salvi a service to the group. He makes a terrible name to pro-lifers ev­erywhere, especially in the eyes of those who only hear of events like this tragic one. The ignorance of this view saddens those who would like to con­tinue their work peacefully. 
Also, he claims that "responsibility ... extends to these groups . . . who stand in silence or continue to protest clinics." I do not see how I could possibly be responsible for this, as I cry out to stop the violence. And in protesting peacefully at clinics by praying the rosary, Right to Life is working to end the innocent killing of precious little babies 

~· 
I 

as well as "innocent adults." I agree wholeheartedly that the killing of the two women in Massachusetts was tragic and I deeply regret that it happened. But please do not stereotype all pro-lifers as being in favor of violence. 
I am by no means trying to make anyone feel inhuman if they disagree with me, as Tyler said many editorials do, but am only doing my duty as an active member of Right to Life to edu­cate people, and if I can, change someone's opinion. In conclusion, I would like to com­ment on the fact that people think pro-lifers "have spent millions of dollars . . . to breed the climate of hate." I cannot speak for every pro-lifer in the world, but many do not hate those in favor of abortion. Most try to live out the sermon, hate the action, love the person who does the undesirable. 
JEANNINE HAENER 
Sophomore 
Badin Hall 
TIME TO BRSA.KOUT THE TIN CUPf) AND 
TH!: BIG BIRD OlTTFITS 
AGAIN.-­

Defending your natural rights 
Dear Editor: In response to Mr. McMahon's attack on ROTC students as the "camouflaged clowns around campus" ... 
Mr. McMahon, I don't condemn you just because you aren't will­ing to die to defend the natural rights that we so often take for ~ra~~ed in our country. I'm merely asking that you respect an md1v1dual's personal choice to join the military in an effort to defend her/his own values and way of life from external aggres­sion and violence. 
With regard to your statement about how ROTC conflicts with Notre Dame peace efforts, I leave you with one question: would you rather see a U. S. military full of brainless, "hierarchy wor­shippers" or an officer corps consisting of intelligent individuals who, due to an excellent education at Notre Dame (infused with Christian ethics and morality and all of that other "good" stufO. are sensitive to the present need for defense forces to be used in peacekeeping? 
Until the day when, with increased international understanding and trust, national defensive measures become unnecessary, we peacelovers need to acknowledge the present indispensability of a United States military. And until that day, our armed forces will continue to proudly defend you, Mr. McMahon, and our other brothers and sisters against aggressors who, unlike yourself, have not yet learned the value of a human life. 
KATRINA WORMAN 
Senior 
Pangborn Hall 
·soH sets·iA)pdicial precedent 
Dear Editor: "'()n .·the last Monday before· Christmas break, a rumored food J:tgltt~l;rp.dated the bal~ pf ,Morris~~y. But all that happenedwli.en the admittedly im!Pa.ture Manorites got to the dining hall !Y~ the singing of the M~or Fight Song. 
'*Jim Yarborough, the':tpanager of South Dining Hall, had heard tile rumors. After hearing the fight song, he singled out two men I:M! the leaders~ One.he smgJed out because of his haircut; the Qtbtn:r I'fl1: ~fral(j, he. s~gled out because of his height. Both of the.m wete then referred .to Student Affairs for disciplinary 
aetton. · 

At first, ·I thought, "Someday I may have a bad haircut. What happens if.Ji:rn is around?" Then I thought of my other friend, the p~e pulled (l.Si<ie beeaus.e heJs not astallas everyone else. 
·. ·.· The tnore l thougW: 'llbout it, tlm more I was convinced we need Jim. Think of all the good he could have done if only we'd had Jim longer. The Nuremburg War Trials f'mished in a day and a half. Kennedy, still alive, because even if he hadn't read Lee Iiarvey Osw<l,ld's mind, his bad haircut would have given him away instantly, ij/ 

GARRY TRUDEAU 

JEFF HAGKULL 
Senior Morrissey Manor 
• Quon: Of THE DAY 
"Few men have virtue to withstand the highest bidder." 
-George Washington 
---~-~-~~~-~~~~------------------------------------------~----------­
ACCE,NT
Tuesday, January 31, 1995 
Those were the days 
A dive into University Archives reveals fascinating comparisons to present day collegiate life 
By KRISTA NANNERY 
Assistant Accent Editor 
Who would have thought old stuff could be so fascinating? Hidden up on the sixth floor of the library lies a department filled with box after box after book of records and pho­tographs of the University of Notre Dame. In the Archives Department, one thing is more interesting than the next, espe­eially when one compares the information with what we live and experience on a daily basis. 
' In 1861, the basic fee 
per annum was $239, and that is assuming that the student took Latin or Greek plus another lan­
guage as well as taking advantage of certain "philosophical and chem­ical apparatus" for $10.' 
Currently, the basic fee per semester at Notre Dame for an on campus student is in the area of $10,500. For $10,500, a student gets instruction, tuition, meals, a room, use of the library, Health Center, and ath­letic facilities, The Observer, Scholastic, and The Dome. In 1861, the basic fee per annum was $239, and that is assuming that the student took Latin or Greek, plus another language as well as taking advantage of certain "philosophical and chemical apparatus" for $10. What a "philosophical appara­tus" included is not expanded on. And those poor music afi­cionados had to pay an extra $1 0 for the privilege of using the piano. 
First Year-Senior collegiate courses in 1861 during the first session included Tacitus, Perseus. the tenth book of Plato's Hepublic, Hebrew, Stuart's Chrestomathy, and General and Special Metaphysics. Nowadays, we have a choice of five different colleges and innumerable ma­jors, second majors, and concentrations. Unfortunately, a course in Stuart's Chrestomathy is no longer being offered, although word has it that it could possibly be revived if there is enough stu­dent demand. 
Now, if a student remains on campus during break luckily, 
showering facilities remain 
------------------'1 
'l'BBII'I• 
2JNT:R.ANOJJ :FEEl, • ee.oo. 
I Pll UMUM. 
I 
:&ard, Wlllhinc, Bed and Bedding, Ilootor'a Fee~, 
lledfuiuu, and Tuition iu iha Engliah OolllN, 1186 l&t.iD and Greek, o11ra • • 20 Spllllilh, Il&liaD, Freuob and llet'Dllll, each -~ !nJirommlt&l lllllio, • :10 Uae of Piallo, • 20 Dnwing, -12 Oaliaihauloa, • 6 Uae of l'hilillophiW and· Ohamioal !~, 10 
Paymenta 1o be IDW halt yearly ill adnnce, Clus, Boob, StaliODory, oto., furuillhod at tho UIU&l pricoo. Clotboo, Linoo, eto., ue alao futniihod by tho College, at cUrrent prictR, but Nl equir.lent 1om muat be depoaited in the hamll or lha Tr"'IUU&rtfr, No Student will be rolleivod for a olwriut poriod )'W> Gve moot.h.&. Lch Pupil mllll be ~rovidod with oi~ ahlrll, aU paln or 
•lookings, six pcoket-hndkorohior~ liz 10wo1J, 'I knife i.nd fork, 18Hpcon, and tabl...poou, • h&l ..d oap, two aulta or olotheo, an mrco&~ a pair of aboos &lid a palr of boola for lho winlori two ..Uta or c!Oih&l, and ""' paire t4 ahoeo •for \he 1ummer. 
Poaket money iJ not allowed, exoept wh&o plaoed in the handJ or the Tr.amr<r, ood 111hjeotl0 ~ diJcrotionary IJ>' plication.
--·------'-'----· 
' Q ne has to wonder if 
the old rule still stands and Father Malloy or his substitute still has the right to open all of our mail before we read it.' 
open at no extra charge. Twenty dollars for a couple of days worth of a little hot water is a pretty steep charge for 1995. Imagine what that must have been like in 1861. 
One has to wonder if the old rule still stands and Father Malloy or his substitute still has the right to open all of our mail before we read it. That's a lot of Columbia House envelopes and J. Crew catalogues to go through. But if it was 1861, that wouldn't matter because we wouldn't have any money to buy anything anyhow. Pocket money was strictly forbidden, with a few exceptions, and The Discover card still hadn't been invented. Obviously, tipping the 
~---------=.--=~~-------;, 

Whon paronlo wiab 10 bavo their ohildron ,..t h.,.., they 
must give timely notioe, ,.ttlu all aooonnll, and anpply meolll 
10 tlofray .n tr&Yclllng cxpcu.... No dO<lnotion ~ w.Ue on 
&COOURtl1WI1C811 jp OA8f) o( lficknCll8 or diami•l, 
At tbo termination of tho Jirat acaion, an E.xami11.11.Uou iJ 
h•ld, in proaenoo or tho F...lty. Tho principal ood pnbllo 
Eu.miuation il mado at tho ond of the 10oond aeuion, whicb 
ope"' on lholal or February, and cndJ in June. Tbe An· 
nuu.l Commenoe1Dent tnket pl&oe on tbe last Wadn8day in 
June. Tho 611t SOIIllion oommeneee on the lJt ~I•J in 
Soptomhcr. 
Tkero U. on additional ubuge of 120 for board and nohing 
during tho vaeat.ion. 
AU lotiOn written or roooi•od by tho awdonlo ue or may 
be oponll<l and rood by the p...,ident or hill mbttitulo. 
Courtesy of University Archives 

Papa John's delivery person would be out of the question. 
All this and more was discov­ered in less than thirty minutes way up on the sixth floor of the library. Realize that it is 134 years later and although yearly tuition is ninety times higher than it used to be, thankfully, we get a lot more for our money now, and can even con­trol it ourselves. Guys can have as many pairs of stockings as they want. should they so desire, and washing is a normal part of everyday life. Thank goodness for the passage of time. Now if we could only get them to bring back Stuart's Chrestomathy. 

page 9 

• AcceNT AsKs••• 
What was your most memorable dating experience? 

'I was set up by a friend for an SYR. My date was overly at­tracted to me and by the time I got away from her, my friend's date started hitting on me very forcibly.' 
Brian Molinaro Alumni Freshman 
'I went to a dance dressed as a woman in a plaid pink dress.' 
Theodore Fisher Junior 



'I went to the lyons formal and my date gave me a frisbee. We spent the whole night throwing it around.' 
Katie Gott Lyons Sophomore 
'At the end of the date we were at my house and we smelled smoke. The basement was on fire.' 
.. 
Karen Fronduti Pangborn Junior 

'At a formal at Kovalski Stadium, the police were having a softball game. The announcer pulled my date and I into the announcing booth to sing in the middle of the seventh inning stretch.' 
Denise Hodnik Howard Junior 

'I'm 5 ft. 4 in. and I went to the Badin formal with my 6 ft. girl­friend. When we slow-danced, 
__, she lifted me off the ground.' 
Tim Ray Sorin Sophomore 
Photo courtesy of University Archives 

Notre Dame students sport one of their two sets of clothes on the road to Saint Mary's, circa 1890. The Observer/Chris Chamblls 

---------~ ~------------. 
Tuesday, January 31, 1995 The Observer· SPORTS page 10 
•Nfl • Cm.LH~E BAsKHBJU1 
49ers offense sets some records Orangemen collect 
By DENNIS GEORGATOS the playoffs. -The game provided the Associated Press "We've made our mark," said most points ever by two Super 

important Big East win 
Young, who threw for a Super Bowl teams and marked the MIAMI Bowl record six touchdowns to seventh time this year San By JIM O'CONNELL missed a drive on the next trip 
On offense, the San Francisco earn MVP honors and comple­Francisco had at least 40. Associated Press and it was Wallace who 49ers have always had an atti­ment an MVP season in which "It's amazing because this grabbed the rebound that led to tude. he earned a fourth consecutive offense does not take what the LANDOVER, Md. a layup by Lucious Jackson and 
Lawrence Moten scored 19
Now, in the afterglow of a passing title with a record defense gives them. They take a 72-67 Syracuse lead. record fifth Super Bowl title, 112.8 efficiency rating. what they want, and that is un­points, John Wallace added 17 The Hoyas, who lost at home the attitude is that the 49ers "It'll be debated about, but like any other offense in the points and nine rebounds and for the first time this season, just might have the best offense we'd like to believe that we've league," said San Francisco No. 10 Syracuse took advan­were within 7 4-72 on a 3-point­
tage of horrible free throw
the NFL has ever seen. put together a string that might linebacker Gary Plummer. er by Iverson with 21 seconds 
"It's tough to be humble shooting by No. 13 Georgetown
never be matched," Young Offensive coordinator Mike left, but Moten beat everyone about it," said tight end Brent said. Shanahan says the 49ers don't for a 76-7 5 victory Monday down the court for a dunk Jones. "On offense this year, Some examples of the offen­just accept success. night. seven seconds later. Iverson hit 
The Orangemen (16-2, 9-1 Big 
we were as close to perfection sive prowess: "Our goal is to improve each a 3-pointer at the buzzer for 
East) were just the opposite at
as you can get." -The 49ers registered the week, and we wanted to be the the final margin. 
The numbers -and the play­the foul line, going 18-for-24 Jackson finished with 13
quickest touchdown strike in best of all time," he said. "I 
ers who put them up -tell the Super Bowl history, when think you can argue just like compared to the 9-for-26 effort points and J.B. Reafsnyderof the Hoyas (14-4, 7 -3). 
story. The latest chapter was a Young found Rice with a 44-with players, which offense is added 11 points and 10 re­compelling one -a 49-26 vic­yard scoring pass just 1:24 into the best. But it would be hard Syracuse evened the series bounds for the Orangemen. 
between the schools at 28-28 
... tory over the San Diego the game. Rice caught two to beat this group of players John Jacques had 15 points
and gave coach Jim Boeheim
Chargers in the Super Bowl on more TD passes to match a that I've had a chance to deal for Georgetown while Othella 
Sunday night. his 450th victory against 142
Super Bowl record for most with." Harrington, coming off two of Certainly, San Diego line­touchdowns in a game, a feat That's saying a lot, consider­losses. his best games in an up-and­backer Junior Seau was Ricky Watters matched by ing some of the 49ers' past of­The Orangemen took the lead down season, was held to two 
for good at 68-67 on a rebound
impressed. "They have lifted catching two touchdown passes fensive juggernauts. But this points on 1-for-7 shooting. 
the standard on offense." basket by Wallace with 2:15 left 
and scoring on a run. The only season's team, bolstered by a Syracuse closed the first half 
to play. It was the first of three 
"Their offense is so wide other player with three touch­free-agent-revitalized defense, with a 15-4 run that gave it a 
big rebounds for the 6-foot-8
open," added San Diego safety downs in a Super Bowl is Roger obliterated key scoring records 38-36lead. 
junior forward. 

Stanley Richard, who was Craig, a former 49er. from the past. Included was the Over the last 3:35 of the half burned by Jerry Rice and Ricky -San Francisco scored a previous 49ers' scoring record, After Jerome Williams made the Hoyas missed seven of nine Watters in the opening minutes record 131 points in three post­set by the 1984 Super Bowl one of two free throws for shots, including four layups, 
of the game. "It's like a track season games, adding to a team. Georgetown, Wallace made two and committed three turnovers. free throws when he was fouled
meet when you play these guys. record-breaking offensive show Young not only became the Six players scored for Syracuse They have a lot of talent in the during the regular season, first quarterback other than after grabbing an offensive in the run as the Orangemen 
backfield, on the line and out when the 49ers scored a team­Joe Montana to bring San rebound. made seven of eight shots, wide." high 505 points -the fourth Francisco a Super Bowl title. Freshman Allen Iverson, who including two rebound baskets 
led Georgetown with 25 points,
After hitting a low point in a highest total in league history. Young also eclipsed many of his and two layups off turnovers. 40-8 loss to Philadelphia in the -Rice, already the NFL's predecessor's records -in­fifth game of the season, the leading career touchdown cluding the team and NFL mark 49ers regrouped to put to­maker, came away with a se­for passer rating. 

Please, Recycle 
gether a 10-game winning ries of Super Bowl records, in­When he threw for six TDS in 
streak that included Young's cluding most career touch­the Super Bowl, the record he astonishing run of 25 TD passes downs (7), most receptions (28) broke was set by Montana, who to just three interceptions. San 

The Observer
and most receiving yardage had five in a 55-10 win against 
Francisco picked it up again in 
(512). Denver in 1990. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. / 
Spring Break! Bahamas Party  HELP COMUTER BLUES  SELLING POWER-TRANSLATOR  Help! I need 2 pairs of GAs for the  C.O.B.­ 
NOTICES  Cruise 6 Days $27911ncludes 12 Meals & 6 Free Parties! Great  ibm compat. 486/50 w/ cd need sound hooked to cd  FOR DOS SOFTWARE, ENG­SPANISH, BRAND NEW, 130,  UK game. $15-$25 /ticket. Call Wade x3883  Please take a shower!!! Hugs and Kisses-your roommates  
Beaches & Nightlife! A HUGE  & basic tutoring  271-19-98.  
**CAMPUS BANDS/MUSICIANS**  Party! Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights  after6,jim  $$$$ NEED KENTUCKY GAME  Santa,  
The Student Union Board is accept­ Air & Hotel From $429! Spring  1992 Subaru wagon  TIX. CALL MIKE @277-1704 $$$$  The answer is "no."  
ing demo tapes to be considered for  Break Travel1-800-678-6386  STUDENTS NEEDED TO MAN­ REDUCED $6500 low mileage  What do you say we try again?  
the 1995 campus CD. Original  AGE PAINTING CREWS,  good, clean condition  KEENAN REVUE TIX  
music only, 1 song per demo  THROUGHOUT INDIANA, FOR  accessorized  634-4527  Want to trade 2 FRitix for 2 SAT  Happy Birthday Paz­ 
please. Tum tape and short bio  Florida's Spring Break Hotspots!  SUMMER OF '95. GUARANTEED  tix. Call John at x0858.  better late than never!  
into SUB, second floor LaFortune,  PANAMA CITY OCEANVIEW  TO MAKE $3000. IF INTERESTED,  the sophomore 6-man  
in "campus CD" box by February  ROOM WITH KITCHEN $129!  PLEASE CALL 1-800-94-STU­ OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered  WANTED: 6 Tickets to Tom Petly  
17. Questions? Call Ryan at 288­ WALK TO BEST BARS I Cocoa  DENT.  at $85,900. First Floor location.  DESPERATE! I!!! Please Call  I NEED a Research Methods book  
3952 or Steve at 232 4959.  Beach (Near Disney)-27 acre  Finished basement with full lavato­ Mary Jane @ 271-0224  for Methods of Sociological  
**CAMPUS  CD  1995***********  Deluxe Beachfront Resort 7 Nights  SUMMER JOBS  ry. Two Bedrooms and two baths  Research.  If that isn'tthe right title,  
$159! Key West $229! Daytona  ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  on ground level. Lease back to  Kentucky tix NEEDED  I know that it was published in  
·c  Math Tutoring  234-1107  Room with Kitchen From $129! 1­ PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS  owner through May, 1995.  $$Call Brent x1761  1974, so I know there have to be  
800-678-6386  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  Call (616) 946-0700.  copies on campus somewhere. I  
ANIMAL HOUSE  NEAR LAKE PLACID  have a problem with paying $30 for  
Thurs 8/1 030 Montgomery Theatre  CALL 1-800-786-8373  2 Petly-loving girls desperately  a book that old. It's an ethical thing.  
Spring Break! Panama City! 8 Days  386 SX-20, 2mb ram, 85mb hd, 3.5  seeking tickets. Willing to pay big  If you have the book, please call Liz  
HEY SOPHOMORES......... .  Oceanview Room with a Kitchen  SUMMER JOBS  and 5.25 hd drives, keyboard,  money! Call x-3698 and ask for  at x4270 and we'll work out a price.  
Looking for that great service pro­ $129! Walk to best bars! Includes  Coed summer camp in Minnesota  mouse, original software and manu­ Mary Jane.  
ject that makes a huge difference,  Free Discount Card which will save  seeks individuals to work as cabin  als, SVGA monitor. $475 obo. Two  Hey Tierney:  
and is still a lot of fun?  you $100 on food/drinks! 1-800­ & activity counselors. Director from  4x9 SIMMs, $125 ea. obo.  271­ Need 3 Marquette GA's  How was RANDALL'S ?????????  
Look no further!  678-6386  Camp Foley will be at SMC LeMans  5687  Call Doug 4-4471  
THE  SOPHOMORE  CLASS  212195 and UND O'Hara Lounge,  Kiddo,  
SERVICE PROJECT Youth Mentoring (serving as role  RUN YOUR OWN BUSINESS,  LaFortune 213/95 both days from 9am-3pm. Stop by my table to get  Health club membership for sale.  PERSONAL  I know the letters are few and far between, but the thoughts  
models for under-privileged kids)at  GAIN VALUABLE EXPERIENCE  information & application.  Includes Tae Kwon Do lessons,  aren't. I was thinking about calling  
the Northeast Neighborhood Center  WHILE BUILDING YOUR  pool, weight room, spa and  David Mamet's  next Monday say around 8 pm,  
FRIDAYS 2:30-4:30, or anytime in  RESUME. EARN UP TO $10,000  NEEDED-former ISLI participants  TANNING BEDS.  Make offer.  AMERICAN BUFFALO  hehehe!  
between.  Meet at Main Circle or  (25 JOBS) HIGH DEMAND PROD­ to facilitate one-day program  Call Randy 272-0415  Directed by Stephen Susco  -An Illinois Farmer  
161 Alumni Hall.  Questions? Call  UCT, IRRIGATION SALES AND  February 4. Call1-7005.  February 2-4 (Thurs.-Sat.) 8:10pm  PS -yup, I'm still the Farmer  
Brian x1058.  INSTALLATION. BE A LEADER: VEHICLE REQUIRED CALL STU­ Need ride to Chicago area 213.  FOR RENT  Washington Hall Mainstage Tickets are $3.00, on sale now at  
Used Texts Cheap! I Check out Pandora's Books 233-2342 ND ave & Howard st 1 0-6 m-sat 9-3 sundays  DENT SPRINKLERS AT 1-800­265-7691  *Rudy 233-4008 ILOST & FOUND I  HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAMPUS 232-2595  the LaFortune Information Desk Produced by the Notre Dame Student Players ** note : play contains harsh pro­ who's up for bowling Feb 11? lAM, lAM!! congrats on 3rd place, T !I  
SKI RESORT JOBS-Hiring for  fanity and some violent/adult  
Term Papers typed  many positions (including summer).  LOST: 2 SPECIAL RINGS  Oakhill Condo for RENT  themes  HOOVER...may he rest in peace  
Spee-Dee Wordprocessing  Up to $2,000+ in salary & benefits  On Friday, Jan 27 I lost two rings.  for the 1995-1996 school year.  
273-4824  (Free ski pass, ski equipment, meal  One Notre Dame class ring with the  For information call: 273-9438.  ROSES ARE RED  I'M GONNA KNOCK Y A INTO  
discounts). Ski/Snowboard instruc­ crest and diamond, inscribed KDJ  VIOLETS ARE BLUE  NORBUT!!  
Pick Up The $20,000 Check in this  tors, lift operators, wait staff, chalet  '94 and one anniversary band with  1, 2, & 3 BDRM HOMES NEAR  THE OBSERVER HAS A  
year's campus telephone directory.  staff, + other positions. For more  about seven diamonds. If found or  CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW & NEXT  SPECIAL OFFER FOR YOU  no one has called. all 3 of us  
The yellow pages are reinvented  information call:(206)634-0469  have any info call Kenya x4-3711.  FALL. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272­ should be mad.  
and more fun than ever before! Pick  ext.V55842  VERY SENTIMENTAL. REWARD.  6551  VALENTINE'S DAY is quickly  
up your directory at your Residence  approaching and now is the time to  ashes, ashes ... we Oackie, layne & I)  
Hall or Student Activities In LaFortune Student Union If you have not already received one, and  CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING­Earn up to $2,000+/month working  ~-F_o_R_s_AL_E__~II~__T_I_c_KE__T_s__~  place a classified ad for your valen­tine. All Valentine's Day ads will appear in a SPECIAL Valentine's  all fall down. hey guys, i got a 57 & wiped out,  
you could be loaded this spring!  on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­ LOSE WEIGHT FOR SPRING  Need Marquette GA's  classified section of The Observer  too.  
panies. World travel (Hawaii,  BREAK! No diets/drugs/exercise!  Call Chris x3767  on Tuesday, February 14.  
WANTED  Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.). Seasonal and full-time employment  Fabulous Herbal Tablets: guaran­teed results! Kelly (800)209-2150  Will trade 2 Fri KEENAN REVIEW  You may place your classified  get Soaked at Steak N' Shake  
available. No experience neces­ tix for Sat. Call Kevin x1488  Monday through Friday from 8am to  move over bacon, kt & i want to  
ND COLLECTOR WANTS GREEN  sary. For more information call1­ 84 DODGE OMNI, RUNNING  3pm. We are located on the third  share the throne.  
FIESTA BOWL JERSEY. CALL  206-634-0468 ext. C55842  WELL, GOOD CONDITION, 600  $NEED 2 PETTY TIX  floor of Lafortune. Place your ad  
312-557-2708 OR 312-975-9567  271-19-98  BRIAN @x1817 $$$  now and beat the rush!  HICCUPS suck big lemons !I  

~--~---------------~ 
Tuesday, January 3I, I995 The Observer • SPORTS page II 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Friendly rivalry resumes between Boilers and Hoosiers 
Associated Press 
WEST lAFAYETTE, Ind. 
There are no fiercer rivals than Indiana and Purdue. Fierce, but friendly. 
"The fans want to make it a huge rivalry, but we really like those guys," Indiana guard Pat Knight said. "I consider some of them to be among my best friends. 
"Playing them is like going against your best friend in the backyard. You want to beat him really bad and it gets heated on the court, but off the court ev­eryone remains friends." 
The Hoosiers make their an­nual visit to Mackey Arena on Tuesday night. They'll play again Feb. 12 in Bloomington. 
"I think both teams are just looking at it as an important Big Ten game," said Knight, the son of Indiana coach Bob Knight. "Alan (Henderson) and I really want to win it, but I know Matt (Waddell) and Cuonzo (Martin) do too." 
Knight and Waddell are long­time friends. And last summer, after Waddell tore the anterior cruciate ligament in his knee, he received a supportive phone call from Henderson, who had suffered a similar injury. 
At the White River State Park Games in Indianapolis last sum­mer, the championship team's roster included Knight and Todd Lindeman from Indiana and Waddell and Herb Dove 
L•flla;a 
20% per year. 

Compare that figure to any other firm you're con­sidering. It could be the difference between getting ahead. And banging your head. 
from Purdue. Matt Painter, a former Boilermaker, also played. 
Dove had never met Knight before that tournament, and given the reputation of Knight's famous father, he was curious. 
"I was wondering how he would be, but he's a normal, everyday basketball player," Dove said. "We just played hard and had fun." 
The younger Knight added, "They're kids just like us ­
1803 Sr)Uth Bend Ave. Campus Shoppes Plaza 277-2974 
Midwestern kids who want to play basketball." 
"Waddell and I joked around a lot," he said. "He'd remind me they got the Big Ten title last year and I'd tell him we want it back. And we'd tell sto­ries about the coaches. We've got, I think, two of the great coaches. Their tactics aren't the same, but they're fiery coaches. We'd share our stories about what we go through, and I think we go through a lot of the same things." 

Not valid with any other offer. New customers only. 
~.. ~..
. . ... . . 
t 

FACULTY UPPER ROOM 
SERIES 
"FAITHAND PROFESSIONAL LIFE" 
An opportunity to reflect with colleagues and spolliJillllguests on the integration ofspiritual concerns and profeBBional challenges and demands. 
THURSDAY 
2 February 1995 
Faculty Dining Room ofthe South Dining Hall Dinner at 7:00p.m. -Discussion until9:00 p.m. 
Speaker James A. McAdams Professor of Government "Teaching the Children ofLight" 
Reservations: Return the form reeeiv«l in the mail or 
•imply call Sharon Ha.rwell at 1-8607 by Tuesday, January 31. 
ANDERSEN CONSULTING 
1\RlllUR ANDERSEN & CO.. S.C 
Andersen Consulting will be conducting both full time and summer intern interviews on February 6. Please see Career and Placement Services for details. 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND PANAMA CITY BEACH DAYTONA BEACH 
I ti J'lhfJilI 
STEAMBOAT VAIL/BEAVER CREEK 

Pill PERSON IJEP!IIDIIIG OIIDESTIIATIOIII BAlN(OA!IS IWG11t Of STAY. 
•~aoo~suNcu.•s'E 
TOLL nl&'li IN~'IlON & J!liSIR\'.'I"'IOU 
• 

Tuesday, January 31, 1995 The Observer· SPORTS page 12 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALl 
TCU senior leads NCAA in points, rebounds 
By JAIME ARON Associated Press 
FORT WORTH, Texas 
Texas Christian's Kurt Thomas always knew he could score. It was his rebounding he wanted to improve this season. 
The 6-foot-9 senior center has done such a good job with both this season that could become just the third person in NCAA history to lead the nation in each. 
Thomas entered the weekend leading in both, and as of Monday was averaging 28.5 points and 13.4 rebounds. The NCAA's weekly stats will be re­leased Tuesday. 
Not bad for a guy who didn't even start until last season. 
"Basically, I came into this year focused," said Thomas, who's vying to join the double­leader feat of Loyola­Marymount's Hank Gathers in 1988-89 and Xavier McDaniel of Wichita State in 1984-85. "I didn't expect to do what I'm doing. That's just a positive, showing that I'm working hard." 
Thomas has been pushed to 
succeed by first-year coach 
Billy Tubbs, who has TCU otT to 
a 13-5 start after the Horned 
Frogs won a total of 13 games 
the last two years. 
"He's an ideal fit for our sys­
tem. He's what our offense 
needs," Tubbs said. "I see im­
provement every day. I think 
he legitimately wants to do the 
right things." 
Although seemingly under­
sized at center, Thomas is a 
sleek, strong 225 pounds. He's 
also quick and has long arms 
that help him shoot over taller 
defenders and has made him 
TCU's career leader in blocked 
shots. 
''I'm more mobile than most 
centers and I don't need to stay 
inside. I'm able to step outside 
and hit the 15-foot shot," said 
Thomas. · 
Using a decent blend of inside 
and outside scoring, Thomas 
has had games of 41, 43 and 
45 points. Five more times he's 
scored in the 30s. 
He's also improved his form 
shooting, going from 64.5 per­
cent last year to 73.4 this year 
with games of 16-of-16 and 10­
of-10 from the line. 
As for his rebounding, Thomas has grabbed 10 or more in all but three games this year. He's had 16 or more five times, with highs of 20 and 
21. 
But all this success has come 
late in Thomas' career. 
He played sparingly in 28 
games as a freshman and saw 
a little more time as a sopho­
more until an injury ended his 
season after 21 games. Then 
he missed a year with a broken 
leg. 
He finally got his chance last 
year, starting all 27 games and 
averaging 20.7 points and 9.7 
rebounds in the boring offense 
of then-coach Moe lba. 
Now Tubbs has given him a 
chance to shine and he's used 
it to become a possible first­
round NBA pick, although 
nowhere near the No. 1 spot of 
last year's NCAA scoring leader 
Glenn Robinson. 

Fencing 
continued from page 16 

Against Columbia, the men came out fired up and handled the tough squad easily. Power, Lester, and freshman epeeist Carl Jackson all posted 3-0 records in the win. 
Overall, Siek and Lester went 7-2 on the weekend with Jackson not far behind at 6-3. 
Now, the Irish will look to re­cover from this setback as they travel to Brandeis and MIT this weekend to fence rival Princeton, among others. 
"After you experience a loss like this, you have to re-order your goals," DeCicco added. 
Celebrate a friend~s birthday with a sPecial Observer ad. 
•NBA 

Pistons poised to perform again 
Associated Press 

AUBURN HILLS, Mich. 
After an amazing string of injuries, the Detroit Pistons were getting used to not having any chance at victory. 
Now, with almost everyone back in uniform, they are start­ing to remember what it was like to win their share of games. 
"We feel like Rip Van Winkle waking up from his long sleep," Pistons coach Don Chaney said. "All of a sudden, we have 12 healthy bodies again, guys are playing well, and we are win­ning games. You have no idea how great that feels." 
On Monday night, the Pistons found themselves with a two­game winning streak for the first time since Nov. 15-17 after beating the Los Angeles Clippers 102-95. 
"We had everything going tonight," Chaney said. "We were aggressive on defense, 
and we were showing great teamwork. If you look at some of the passes we were making on the break, you have to know we are starting to get used to playing with each other again." 
Grant Hill led Detroit with 27, one short of his season high, and Rafael Addison and Mark West had 16 each. 
Joe Dumars scored 26 points and matched a career high with 14 assists. He moved to point guard after both Negele Knight and Johnny Dawkins struggled early in the game. 
"It's called making adjust­ments, and that was what I could do tonight to help win the game," Dumars said. "At the point, you are facing everyone, and you can see where the open guys are. When I'm com­ing otT screens, I can't see all of that." 
The Clippers, who lost for the 11th time in 13 games, played the second half under the guid­ance of assistant coach Jim Brewer after Bill Fitch was ejected with 3:25 left in the sec­ond quarter. 
"Bill had been totally under control all season, but I think that was the straw that broke the camel's back," Brewer said. "We all had a part in the coaching, and it was fun." 
Los Angeles got within three points with four minutes left, but West tipped in a missed shot, and the Pistons pulled away for the victory. 
"We were trying to find a way to get them to cough it up down the stretch," Clippers forward Loy Vaught said. "It was disap­pointing, but we are the Clippers. We are known for getting a lot of tough breaks." 
Vaught equalled his career high of 30 points and added 12 rebounds. 
Detroit led 48-44 at the half, and five points from Addison keyed a 11-2 run that put the Pistons ahead by 69-57. 

Let Lei5ure Tour5 International 
take you to ~outh Padre /sian~ 
Land only from $199 pp.wl airfare from $369 pp. 
Call1-800-435-3478 

Take a Spring Break reality check. South Padre Island, Texas, is the hottest Spring Break destination for many reasons. 
The Island is a hot spot for student's offering exciting music, a sea of watersports and legendary nightlife. It's even close enough to give you a spicy taste of Mexico. But the Island's location makes it even hotter; it's further south than any other major Spring Break destination in the United States. That's right. 
And that means tropical sunshine, white sand beaches, clear blue water and more sun-drenched days than just about any­where. That's hot! 
Located on the tropical tip of Texas, South Padre Island is 




LErSPADRE 
convenient by car or by plane and only 25 miles from Mexico. Fly into The Rio Grande Valley via Southwest, American, 
FOR MORE INFORMATION ON 
and Continental Airlines. 
Two airports, Harlingen's Valley Inter­national Airport and The Brownsville/ SPI International Airport, offer conve­nient air service. So calll-800-343·2368 today for a free brochure. 

THE HOTTEST SPRING BREAK DESTINATION
Pa IN THE U.S. CALL 
ISLANO,TEXAS 
~ 
® 

C1!115SOulhl'lliel!ilnl~&lllslmllulliiJ 

1-800-343-2368 ISLAND.TEXAS ®
IDll'lliellMi.Sdll'llie-TeG!s71HI7 

~ ~--------------~.._., 
Tuesday, January 31, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 

• TRACK 
11:00 AM-2:00 PM on
Track teams capture last MCC titles in Loftus 
Saturday. For rates and Special to the Observer freshman sprinter Allen Dame sprinter Monica Cox es­more info call the Golf Shop Rossum provisionally qualified tablished a record with a 8.13 at 1-6425 or RecSports.
The Midwestern Collegiate in the 55 meters with a 6.23 in the 55-meter dash while BENGAL BOUTS-TrainingConference indoor track and and Detroit Mercy jumper Paul Detroit Mercy jumper Kim Jess occurs daily at 4:00 PM at the field championships were held Caraballo provisionally quali­broke her own high jump mark 
JACC. Anyone interested at the Loftus Sports Complex at fied in the high jump with a with a leap of 5'-8". A pair of ch~pter of the should please contact Jeff the University of Notre Dame 2.16m performance. Along Irish runners rounded out the 
• The date is eGoddard at 287-8041. 
Saturday afternoon with the with Rossum, freshman Errol record breakers with Erica For the name o( CLIMBING WALL SCHED· Irish capturing both the men's Williams set a standard in the Peterson winning the 800 me­revresfmta.tive call ULE -The Climbing Wall will and women's titles in their last 55-meter hurdles at 7 .43. ters with a 2:13.65 and senior be open for use beginning appearance as an MCC school. Notre Dame head coach Joe Sarah Riley winning the 3,000 Sunday, January 22. The Notre Dame will move to the Piane was named men's coach meters in 10:07.47. hours will be Sundays 2:00­Big East beginning in the fall of of the year while Caraballo was LaSalle coach Charles Torpey tostmien1ts, faculty, and 5:00 and Tuesdays and 1995. named the meet's outstanding was named women's coach of 
skis, boots; II.Ilqd Thursdays from 7:00-10:00. 
The men's division featured male performer. Williams was the year, LaSalle's Rachel Ritz rAQ,ArVJ·~tinlnli Jieces: '>The climbing wall iS located fifteen Intercollegiate Amateur named male running newcomer was named both outstanding out 4:30-5:30 on in the Rockne Memorial and Athletic Association of America of the year and Detroit Mercy's performer and female running 
and Friday a,nd anyone interested in using it championship qualifiers, estab­Brett Zuba was named male newcomer of the year and 2:0Q PM:i',,Qn must attend an orientation lished three MCC records and field newcomer of the year. Wisconsin-Milwakee's ui 4:30~5:30 session. For more info call included two NCAA provisional The women's division pro­Stephanie Klipper was named RecSports at 1-6100. indoor qualifiers. Notre Dame duces four MCC marks. Notre field newcomer of the year. 
CROSS CO_UNTRY
Be Lit ary... 
BEGGINER at the 1995 S )t.Literary Festival. 

~~SKI CLINIC
)!::Jn .. · ····:.: ·:····:· 
SATURDA~FEBRUARY4
*** ebrua -16 *** 
2:00PM 
NOTRE DAME GOLF COURSE $5.00 CHARGE 
EQUIPMENT RENTAL AVAI~ $2.00 ADDITIONAL ~ 
REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS WEAR LAYERED CLOTHING & WARM GLOVES 
W V Fl WVFI WVFI WVFI WVFI WVFI WVFI WVFI WVFI WVFI WVFI WVFJ 
~



~ INFORMATION SUPERDUPERHIGHWAY < 
~

~ ~ IP~ ~ ®®~ ~U\Jl [lJ) [lJ)~U\Jl ~ IJ~ IMl ~ ~IJI!JJ[lJ) ~ U\JJIJ~ ~1J~1J2a1J~ [lJ) 
~ 

~ TQJJfNJ~fNJG ~fNJTO QQJJ~l~TV ~~[D)~O [F)~OG~~MM~N~~ ~ 
~ <
> ~ ~TUESDAY NIGHT AT 9:30 PM TUNE INTO AM 640 ; 
> FORTHE ~ 
iSTEUE AND DAUE AND MATT SHOW i 

TAlK l~V[E ON THE A~R W~TH THE STUDENT BODY PRES~DENT AND V~CE PRES~DENTo 
WE'LL TALK ABOUT WHATEVER THE HECK YOU WANT. IT'S OUR 
SHOW, BUT YOU CALL THE SHOTS. LISTEN TONIGHT AND WE'LL TALK 
ABOUT CABLE TELEVISION AND THE UPCOMING REFERENDUM. FREE 
CD'S AND TACO BELL DINNERS WILL BE AWARDED TO THOSE WHO 
CALL IN AND CAN TELL US WHAT A REFERENDUM IS. EXTRA SOUR 
CREAM WILL GO TO THOSE WHO CAN SAY FILIBUSTER FIVE TIMES REAL 
FAST WITHOUT MESSING UP. 

CALL 1-6400 


-
... 
WVFI WVFI WVFI WVFI WVFI WVFI WVFI WVFI WVFI WVFI WVFI WVFI 
---·~~-----­
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, January 31, 1995 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 

.... 
Baseball strike one week away from Clinton intervention 
By RONALD BLUM Professional Baseball. The and get major league baseball owners, players, the minor guess that the freeze will con­Associated Press panel would have power to im­on the fields again," the New leagues and municipalities. tinue on. As long as they (union 
WASHINGTON 
One week before President Clinton's deadline for progress toward settling the baseball strike, neither owners nor play­ers appeared willing to budge much. 
Owners began arnvwg Monday night and manage­ment's negotiating committee was scheduled to meet Tuesday. The union's negotiat­ing committee met for about six hours Monday and about 60 players were expected for an executive board meeting Tuesday, the day before talks resume. 
"We'll see what they've got to offer," Detroit's Cecil Fielder said. "If they don't have any­thing to offer, then we're just going to be talking about the same old things. What they have on the table isn't anything worth considering.'' 
Talks broke off Dec. 22, a day before owners implemented their salary caps. When negoti­ations collapsed, management was insisting on a luxury tax plan designed to eventually re­duce the percentage of revenue going to players from 58 per­cent to 50 percent. The union's last tax plan was designed to ensure the discrepancy in pay­rolls between large and small markets didn't get any larger. 
Chuck O'Connor, manage­ment's chief lawyer, said there wouldn't be any "major changes" in the new proposal owners intend to make Wednesday. 
"We're going to talk about it with our committee tomorrow," he said. "We're going to put a menu before them." 
If that's the case, mediator 
W.J. Usery will have a difficult time producing a breakthrough that would end the strike, which began last Aug. 12. 
"If we get a proposal from 
them that is not significantly 
different from the last one, our 
response will not be signifi­
cantly different.from our last 
one," union head Donald Fehr 
said. 
Last Thursday, Clinton or­
dered talks to resume and set a 
Feb. 6 for progress toward a 
deal. If there isn't any, the 
president said he will ask Usery 
to formulate his own proposal 
for a solution. 
While Clinton can't force a 
settlement, he can lobby for 
one. He also could ask Congress 
to enact one as law. 
On Capitol Hill, Rep. John LaFalce introduced a bill to es­tablish a seven-member National Commission on pose a settlement and to settle York Democrat said, "followed all disputes among major by an in-depth study of how we league owners and between can organize baseball at all lev­major and minor league own­els under conditions that pro­ers. It would have subpoena vide future stability." power and could make any fi­Within 60 days of enactment, nancial record public. the president would appoint 

"We will have the equivalent three members to represent the of compulsory arbitration to re­interests of fans, and one each solve the short-term problems to represent the interests of 
When the union's executive board meets Tuesday, among the items on the agenda will be whether to lift the signing freeze. No player has signed a major league contract since owners implemented. 
"I think it's a very close call," agent Tom Reich said. "If I had to guess right now, I'd have to leadership) believe it enhances their position, we have to sup­port it." 
Because of the renewed talks, owners moved their expansion committee meeting from Chicago to Washington. The meeting will be held Thursday at the office of the owners' law firm, Morgan Lewis & Hockin. 










H.U.G.S. 
Meeting 
Wednesday, Feb. 1st 8-9 p.m. in the C.S.C. 
• Bring the date of MMR shot and Chicken Pox Vaccination 
' 

• TB test will be required 
For more Information, Comments or Suggestions Call us at 
• Returning members sign up for
289-4939 JOX' s located at 2206 Mishawaka A venue 

spring semester schedule on 141 Ei IJJEr IJJCJ IrJ JIJt;l TuesdayJan. 31st; 5-9:30 p.m. at 
C.S.C. 
TIRED OF DISCUSSING THE POP VS. SODA DEBATE? Then join us as we discuss revolution, rebellion, and political strife. . . The Notre Dame Council on International Business Development presents . .. 

"Perspectives on En1erging Den1ocracies" 
A Global View 
Wednesday, February 1, 1995 at 7 p.m. Theodore M. Hesburgh Library Auditorium 

The CLUB j The .CLUB to eat. ! to beat.­
I~, I 

Friday, February 10/7:00 p.m./ Joyce ACC 


Tuesday, January 31, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM MIKE PETERS CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 
I WA~T It) ~I] A(£T~R 
~ 11-1~ POSfMAS"fe"l?, 
COMPLAININ(;ABOUT 

e:;::~ "ffiESe RP-1E ~!K65 A~D 5L.OW S6RVICS111 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
Services. Inc. 
BILL WATTERSON 


"I got sick of cleaning up hairballs." 

.. 
PIZZA. HUT 

'<OUR IGNORANCE .SEEi"\S 10 I-lAVE NO L1t'\1.T. YOUR 
OPINIONS ARf IDIOTIC 
r;-----...J 


CROSSWORD 


YOU'RE 1'-\IGI-\TY BRAVE 
• 

.. 
.. 

.. 
-
ACROSS 26 Alp1ne vocalist 53 Dieter's worry 28 Harry Blackmun 56 Bluenose
1 Gymnast opinions. often 57 "The loneliest Korbut 32 Cattle number" 
5 Black 
58 Gymnastic 9 The "k" in 24-k. equipment 
33 Balderdash 

34 Language of 14 "Where'er 1-Dundee 
so Maltreat ": Goldsmith, 64 Shinbone
36 Music with a "The Traveller" 66 Dish for the 
beat deflated

15 Family stories 39 Reuniongoer, informally 
&&Take-for

16 Keep in stitches the worse
41 Standing up 

1r Busy buzzer 69 Not written 
43 Not working, as

19 Shakespearean 70-end
a battery

title role (stopped)
44 Street urchin 20 Col. Klink's 71 Onomastics46 Bogged down 
study4&Mimicdomain, in 60's 

TV 72Erotic 49-Bones 
73 Pops' partners 21 Singer Anita 
(lchabod 23 Sis's sib Crane's rival) 
24 Miss Gabor 51 Melville's 
DOWN eta!. 
Ishmael, e.g. 
1 Eyeballs 2 Boor 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 3Vascoda­
4 Strolls 5 Poshness 


45 Conquerors of 1066 47Bootcamp routine 50"Mamma-!" 52 Shining 53 Trig function 54 Santa-racetrack 
55 Group character 59 Slangy yes 61-nogood 62 Famous twins' 
home 63 Nighttimes, in 
poetry 65Fury 67 Nth degree 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute\. 



6 TV's Newhart 27 Geraint's7 Item dunked in belovedmilk 28Long puffa In want 29 Southeast1 Singing insect Kansas town 10 Maupassant's 30 Lummox

"Bel--" 11 Model A feature 
31 Oktobertest vessel12 Stick out like -thumb 
35 Throw away 13 Canio, e.g., in 37 Mafia kingpin "Pagliacci" 38 Wroclaw's river 40 Painter Joan 22 Hunky-dory 42 Quite, to the 25 Nor' wester Rritic:h 
TIPPECANOE PLACE 
PIZZA KING 

_-/ HAIRCRAFI'ERS HONKERS BRUNO'S PIZZA CIRCLE CAMERA EMPORillM 
FAZOU'S I CANTBELIEVEIT'S YOGURT NOTRE DAME SPORTS MARKETING 
A ~~JBCIIA11 TIHIANJK~ "Jr(Q> 1riHIJB~1B J1(0>(CA11 JE1JJ~IIMIB~~JB~ WIFJ(D.> DONPABLO'S
FLOWERAMA 
IDJtQ)I:>JA1riB1D> If'JRII~IB~ IF(Q)Jf~ 1l"IHI1B ILATIE NII(GIHrir cOJJLlfMJPII(C~ JRAlFJFILIE. 
NOTRE DAME SPORTSWEAR
DOC PIERCE'S 1rWCIKW~ AJRIB ~ IF(Q)JR $11.-JID(ID ANJD> (CAi~ miB JP1JJJR(CJHIA®IBJD) CDEXCHANGE IFJR(C/)JM( lf(Q)1!Jlh IHIA1111 IfliBJPIF~lB~JJIDrlr ATNIB CCDJf~ AT JLATIB NIIiGIHnr. 

SAINI'MARY'S COLLEGE BOOKSTORE CJUU'S CACTUS JACK'S NOBLE ROMAN'S 
PANCAKE HOUSE NOTRE DAME VARS11Y SHOP 
SPAGHEDDIES 
GREATHARVESTBREAD SUBWAY BOB EVANS MACRI'S HACIENDA STIIDEBAGELS 
BARNABY'S
SOCCER HOUSE 
631-6100 
MARTIN'S 

,...-------------------­
• 



SPORTS 
page 16 Tuesday, January 31, 1995 
• WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Irish shut down Gophers 
Wendy Crabtree and 
Holyn Lord are off to 
compete in Dallas 
By TIM SHERMAN Assistant Spans Editor 
After his team's season-opening loss to Brigham Young, Notre Dame women's tennis coach Jay Louderback saw a couple of weaknesses. Most notably, the inexperience of a few key players and weak doubles play were 
.. 
seen as obstacles . 
During Saturday's 6-3 victory over Minnesota, those weaknesses rapidly seemed to change to strengths. 
The primary agent of this change was freshman Molly Gavin. Playing fifth singles and second doubles, Gavin won both. She defeated UM's Jennifer Hayes her singles match with ease, 6­1, 6-0 and along with sophomore Erin Gowen, knocked off the team of Hayes and Jenni Svelia 6-3, 6-3. 
"Playing with Erin was a lot of fun," Gavin said. "We were laughing and having a good time out there and that helps me be a little less nervous." 
"Molly played really well for us," said coach Louderback. "She lost her first match to B.Y.U. but that was just be­cause it was her first time out. She's really coming along." 
Junior Holyn Lord struggled some­what but, like Gavin, won both her singles and doubles match. 

The Golden Gophers' Dana Peterson pushed both sets of the singles match to a tiebreaker but succumbed in the end, 7-5, 7-6. 
Even though it was a struggle, Louderback was pleased with Lord's efforts. 
"Holyn hasn't played her best tennis yet but she is 3-0. She's good at winnning even when she isn't playing all that well." 
The same could be said about her doubles victory. Lord and classmate Wendy Crabtree were taken to three sets but had more left in the end, win­ning the third set 6-4. 
This win, along with the Gavin/Gowen point, was key for the Irish, as the match was still in the bal­ance heading to the doubles. 
"I was really pleased with our dou­bles," said Louderback. "It was the first time Wendy and Holyn had played together and they continue to get better." 
Also victorious for the Irish were senior captain Laura Schwab, 6-1, 6­3, and junior Terri Vitale, who scored a 6-4, 6-4 win. 
This weekend, both Crabtree and Lord travel to Dallas for the Rolex National Championships. Crabtree will be among the 32 singles players, while teaming with Lord to compete in the 16 team doubles field. 
"They will be playing against the best girls in the country," Louderback said. "It will be a good challenge." 
• fENCING 


Women's team undefeated after full weekend 
Men leave the ranks of the unbeaten 
By JOE VILLINSKI Spans Writer 
All good things eventually come to an end. 
For the Notre Dame men's fencing team, the end came too soon last weekend at Rutgers. 
It was there that the men lost their first match to St. John's, 17-10, ending their string of 37 consecutive wins that dated back to 1993. 
"The guys hyped themselves up too much for the bout and didn't execute as well," assis­tant coach Ed Baguer said. 
"Obviously we're disap­pointed," men's head coach Mike DeCicco said. "St. John's was primed for the bout and earned the win." 
The Red Storm had good rea­son to be ready after the Irish defeated them in the regular season last year. Later that season. the foil team then de­feated St. John's to take the gold medal on the way to a na­tional championship. 

"They were definitely psyched to be fencing us," sabreman Bill Lester said. 
"They were waiting the whole year to beat us," women's foil captain Maria Panyi added. 
However, the women's team managed to escape the re­vengeful clutches of St. John's with an 18-14 win. The foil team finished in an 8-8 tie, but won the match on touches 52­50 due to three 5-0 bouts by Panyi. Needing a victory, the epee team stepped it up a notch to defeat the Red Storm 10-6. Captain Claudette de Bruin fin­ished 4-0, while sophomore Colleen Smerek was 3-1. 
"We are able to count on each other when we need a win," Panyi said. 
Against Rutgers, the epee team faced a challenge and won the bout on touches. Once again, though, the foil team picked up the needed victory (11-5) to defeat Rutgers 19-13. The women also downed Columbia 21-11 to round out the undefeated weekend. De Bruin and Panyi finished with identical 11-1 records. Foilists Mindi Kalogera and Monica Wagner were both 8-4. 
"Just like the men, we have had better days than this," women's head coach Yves Auriol said. "Yet the women had good spirit and put forth a good effort." 
Following the loss to St. John's, the men rebounded by defeating Columbia 18-9 and Rutgers 14-13 in a heart-stop­ping match. 
"The motivation and enthusi­asm they showed after the loss was tremendous," DeCicco added. 
It was evident as the men's foil team salvaged a 2-1 meet as they came from behind to beat host Rutgers. Trailing 13­11, it was up to Conor Power, Paul Capobianco, and Jeremy Siek to pull the match out. Power and Capobianco both won leaving it up to Siek. 
The sophomore took Rutger's Shane Sesta to 4-4 before get­ting the last touch in dramatic 

Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 
Junior co-captain Claudette DeBruin and the epee team calmed the Red Storm, winning 10-6. 
fashion to win the bout, DeCicco said. weapon, and meet for the Irish. "Our men never quit," see FENCING/ page 12 

ofnote...
TRACK TEAMS CAPTURE MCCS 
Syracuse squeaked past Georgetown in a battle of Big East 
Teams claim titles for the last time before 
-
joining the Big East. SEEPAGE 13 
rivals 76-75. 




