• I' l j I • I 1 I o 'I I I I I I+ I'' I I I I+' •' I I I I/ I I I I • 

Wednesday, November 1, 1995• Vol. XXVII No.# 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• HAll PRESIDENTS' COUNCIL 
Council determines boundaries of funding 
By BILL CONNOLLY News Writer 

The Hall Presidents' Council last night debated the constitu­tionality of two types of dorm events. 
According to the University's constitution, dorms cannot give funds requested from Student Government for an event to charity. However, events like Carroll Hall's Haunted House use funds given by Student Government to raise money for charities. 
Such funds indirectly go to charity through the profits raised from the event. IIPC ar­gued different suggestions to remedy this situation. 
Two  key ideas  were  pro­ 
posed.  First. it was suggested  
that a  ceiling be put on  the  

amount of funds given to dorms for dorm events funding spe­cific charities. 
In order to ensure that funds will not go to charity, it would be required that the money given could not constitute the majority of funds needed for the event. The money would have to be used for the actual planning and production of the event, and the money could not be use as the direct source of the charitable contribution. 
Second, it was proposed that money be loaned to dorms in-
see HPC/ page 4 


Night Fright 
If it's Halloween, that must mean it's time for Carroll Hall's annual Haunted House. The Notre Dame tradition was interrupt­ed for a while last night as a false fire alarm forced the evacuation of the premises. The Notre Dame Fire Department responded to the call but no fire was found. The disturbance and wet weather failed to dampen spirits as the excited counte­nance of this ghoul (above) shows. Lines for the Haunted House were long again 
this year. 

SMC creates program with spiritual focus 
1\Y KATHLEEN POLICY 
New' Writer 
Saint Mary's Campus Ministry and Hesidence Life Departments have teamed up liJr a "partnership" to empha­size the importance of spiritual life on campus. 
The people within this pro­gram hope that planned pro­jects will both increase the prnsence of campus ministry in thn rnsidenen halls and provide a spiritual presence on the campus in order to assist in times of crisis. 
The Campus Ministry de­partment has assigned a repre­sentative to each dorm. The mpresentalives are to heighten thn spiritual awareness of the students by organizing activi­ties within llw dorm to pro­mole spiritual awareness. The representatives are Father Jim Gunshinan (McCandless), Sister Betty Srnoynr. S.N.D. (Hegina), Judy Fean (lloly Cross).and Eileen Ponder (LeMansj. 
The activities are planned with the help of dorm resi­dents. "We want to show people who we are, and what we do. We want people to see that we are here to help them," said Susie Orr, Director of Hesidence Life. 
The members of the Campus Ministry Department want to create an openness for the stu­dents to eome to them in times of need. They see this as an opportunity to answer ques­tions that students have about their faith. 
"The students may not be comfortable coming in to an of­fice, but may be more comfort­able talking to someone in their dorm," said Judy Fean, Campus Ministry Director. 
Interested students are trying to become more active in cam-
see MINISTRY/ page 4 

The Observer/ Brandon Candura 
Medina: Religion plays role in Cuban politics 
By DEREK BETCHER News Writer 

The religious nature of Cuba will play an important role in the future of Cuba, according to Rene Cardenas Medina, who spoke yesterday at the Hes­burgh Center for International Studies. 
In a lecture entitled "The Hole of Protestantism In Cuba," Medina spoke about current developments in Cuban reli­gion. Medina, a key figure in both Cuba's Center of Psychological and Sociological Research and the University of Havana, was brought to cam­pus by the University's Sociology Department and the Kellogg Institute. 
Medina's initially tried to dis­pel the myth that Cuba is a pre­dominantly Catholic country. 
He noted that only a small per­centage of the Cuban popula­tion even practices a conven­tional form of Western Christianity. Medina likened Cuba's religious climate to a big bowl of soup with many ele­ments and an indescernable main part. Catholicism, Pentecostalism, Episcopalism, and Afro-Cuban blends of sev­eral paganisms have resulted in a society where the majority believe in the supernatural, but, in Medina's words, "tradi­tionally don't affiliate with any institution." 
Nevertheless, recent devel­opments may be strenghtening Protestantism's and Catholicism's positions, and Medina even labeled churches as Cuba's most open and ac-
see MEDINN page 4 



Board selects student regent 
BY JENNIFER LEWIS 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's is one of the few institutions that allows a stu­dent equal voting power on the Board of Regents, according to 
Sister Mary Brassil, Assistant to t h e President. The '95-'96 Student Regent, Julie Steinke, 

holds that Steinke voting power. 
"I give the student's point of view, keeping the faculty in touch with the student body," said Steinke. "Which is an over­whelming responsibility at times." 
This position provides an op­portunity for students to di­rectly respond in a positive, for­mative way to the many chal­lenges that will face Saint Mary's during it's next 150 years. 
Steinke is a psychology major, and has minors in English, Mathematics, and Sociology. She is the Psychology Club treasurer, and an active member in the Math and Social Action Club. 
She has actively participated in hall council, and has been the president of McCandless Hall her sophomore year, vice president of Holy Cross her junior year, and LeMans social committee chair her Senior year. 
Steinke has spread her tal­ents throughout many fields on both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame's campuses. She was the first Saint Mary's student involved in the Notre Dame Student Managers Organization. She was a Late Night Olympics organizer, Junior Board ND Rep­resentative, and a Christmas in April Committee Member. 
"The more involved I am the better I do," said Steinke. "I like to keep busy." 
In order to have this honored position, Steinke went through a difficult elimination process. To apply, she wrote a letter to the Acting Dean of Student Af­fairs, listing her numerous qualifications. 
Three recommendations were required which she received from a faculty mem­ber, a student, and a Resident Hall director. 

After reviewing the applica­tions and respective letters of recommendation, the Student Affairs Council recommend four candidates to the Chair of the Board of Hegents for final selection. 
"I didn't expect to get the position," said Steinke. "I kept getting shocked when I was asked back for more inter­views" 
Being the Student Hegent, Steinke must attend a spring and fall meeting (lasting three days), attend the Board Hetreat in June, and meet with various 
see STEINKE/ page 4 



, 1, • I I • 
• I! I I I' I I 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesd~y, November 1, 1995 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

Respect life by choosing life 
Last week was Respec Life Week, a week dedi­cated to the remembrance of life and the pondering of issues concerning life such as the death penalty, euthanasia, and abortion. While most of the week went by without a great stir, mu_ch has been sa~d Margee Husemann concermng the crosses 10 Associate Viewpoint front of the library. It's Editor mind boggling that the------­entire undergraduate population of Notre Dame is willingly wiped out every two days, and despite the conservative tenor of our campus, many people here are proponents of abortion. 
They call themselves Pro-Choice advocates. They claim that the Constitution of the United States ensures their right to kill their unborn children, as if this were really just a choice. However, those who choose to abort have already made their choice. They chose to have sex; they chose to have unprotected sex. These people have accepted the responsibility of being sexually active but have not accepted the possi­bilities that choice has brought them: pregnan­cy. 
Furthermore, trued proponents of choice would acknowledge the choice of the unborn child. However, here the Pro-Choice advocate here would say that the child is not a human life, that sentience does not come about until late in pregnancy, that they may therefore ignore the presence of a life. They contend that because this faceless life can't live on its own, it doesn't deserve the opportunity to become that way. It is just a mass of cells to these people. However. they fail to recognize that mass o cells is moving, heaving, and reproducing. That mass of cells is a daughter or son of God and is endowed with a soul and a destiny. 
Some pregnant mothers claim that the fetus­es would be better off dead in a trash can behind an abortion clinic than alive and living with a mother who is too young to parent prop­erly or who is hooked on drugs or who relies on welfare to live. However, particularly in the United States, childless families are constantly being put on waiting lists and praying for the blessing of a child to love. So many families would love to adopt a child, to share their lives and good fortune, to provide for an unborn child what the biological mother can't or won't. 
Other Pro-Choicers claim the ever popular, "I wouldn't do it myself, but I don't want to force my opinion on others." This response is even more ridiculous than any other argument. In fact, this statement undermines the very senti­ment which they are professing. By claiming that their opinion shouldn't be forced on women, these people imply that they aren't truly confident in their views, that somehow this concept of killing a human child is neither absolutely right or wrong in their minds. It's easy for these people to say something such as "Murder is wrong. No one has the right to take the life of another person," but they can't take a definitive stand on abortion. 
Very few other choices in a lifetime can one make that can affect one as physically, emo­tionally, psychologically, or spiritually than to choose to abort, and movies such as The Silent Scream show that often people are not even aware of the terror the fetus experiences dur­ing abortion. To destroy a fetus is to destroy a life, a child, and part of the future. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• TODAY'S STAFF 

News Production Jamie Heisler Kira Hutchinson Mark "the bad guy" Allison Fashek Huffman Lab Tech Spons Brandon Candura Joe Villinski 
Graphics 

• Wom..D AT A GLANCE 
Stacks of stats: The story of America in numbers 
Homes wit~~;~~~?eT~~ acts romrt eW1book 
~~et~r~:r~~~~~~~~itr~ ?t~~ 'Statisticai,Abstr~ct of the 
~;s~~i:~fe~ ~~~e~~~~ ~~~~ United States:''' 
of country and 10 times 
those ofjazz. • Lottery ticket sales Increased by $25.2 Here is America in bare billion from 1980 to 1994 
statistics, devoid of 
interpretation. Stacks of 
stats. From labor force to }.~ 34% of Americans age 26 and over say
labor rooms. The kind of ,. 
stuff important to public offi-they have smoked marijuana 
cials, business analysts, edu­
cators, librarians, research •1 03,691 cases ofAIDS were reported In 
workers, students and the merely curious. 1993. 
Thirty-four percent of 
Americans 26 and over have L-'----=.::__-=.::___;___ smoked marijuana at some time in their lives, but only 3 percent are current users. Eight percent of households have herb gardens. A family of four pays more state and local taxes in Newark, N.J., than in other big cities. Lotteries racked up more than $25 billion sales. Such minutiae abound in the new Statistical Abstract of the United States published on Tuesday. It is a book of more than 1,000 pages, some with enough facts for a game of "Jeopardy!" or "Trivial Pursuit." 
Whoopi chosen as Oscars' hostess 
BEVERLY HILLS 
Whoopi is back on tap for the Oscars. The actress was selected by Quincy Jones, who is replacing Gil Cates, the producer of the past six Oscar shows. "I'm back and I'm thrilled, honey," Goldberg said in a statement. "Thank you, Quincy." Goldberg, whose film credits include "Ghost" and "Sister Act," presided 

over the 1994 Academy Awards ceremony. Last year, the honor went to David Letterman, who received mixed reviews and was not asked to return. Jeff Margolis will direct the ABC show for the eighth consecutive year, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences announced Tuesday. Jones, a seven-time Oscar nominee, was awarded the 1994 Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award by the Academy's Board of Governors. The awards are set for March 25, with nominations announced Feb. 13. 

Boos lead to more booze 
SAN DIEGO 
Beer ads featuring Halloween characters such as Elvira and the Crypt Keeper are encouraging children to start drinking, and the beer industry should withdraw them, health advocates say. "It is so blatantly obvious to people that Halloween imagery has special appeal to children," said Laurie Leiber, director of the Center on Alcohol Advertising in Berkeley. In a presentation for today at the annual meeting of the American Public Health Association, Leiber outlined "Hands Off Halloween," a campaign intended to persuade the beer industry to remove Halloween imagery from advertising, just as the industry has done with Santa Claus. Coors has featured the buxom, black-haired Elvira in its adver­tisements, and Anheuser-Busch this year is using televi­sion's creepy Crypt Keeper -bones peeking out of his decaying clothes and all. "Children start drinking by age 13 on average, and by senior year in high school 88 per­cent have had a drink," Leiber said. "The drinking age in this country is not 21; the drinking age is when you can get it." 
• INDiANA WEATHER 


Wednesday, Nov. 1 AccuWeather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather~~~>torecast for noon, Wednesday, Nov. 1. 

FRONTS: 
~...a...&.. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY Pressure 
H L 6J &'S.J ITil 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS Via Associaled Press 
__;__~-----......J er the most recent figures from the last year or two or three. The government has put it out since 1878, drawing on both public and private sources. The 115th edition adds 76 new tables for a total of 1,512. 
Of reportable diseases, which include rabies, tetanus, tuberculosis and typhus, the largest number by far was for cases of AIDS, 103,691 in 1993. The second ranked was aseptic meningitis, 12,848. 

Dad, 69, target of no-child rule 
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. 

After living in his condominium for 24 years, Charles Herman may have worn out his welcome. The 69-year­old man and his 22-year-old wife have had a baby, and the condo rules say children aren't allowed. "Really, I think they're jealous that I married a young girl," Her­man said. Herman said the condo president, Abe Krantz, wants to evict the couple and their 6-week-old baby. Krantz said no one has complained about the baby, but "if he is allowed to have small children, then others will want to have small children." Herman thinks most peo­ple in the 26-unit condo are on his side, and says he has been told by some board members that a vote on Wednesday will go in his favor. "He doesn't bother any­one," said tenant Stanley Werner. "Let everybody live." Next-door neighbor Miriam Engle has no complaints. "I thought there was going to be a problem. but I haven't even heard the baby cry," she said. "Still, the law's the law. It's up to the big wheels to do what's right." 

Powell's wife on medication 
WASHINGTON 

As Colin Powell considers a presidential bid, his family considerations include the fact that his wife. Alma, has suffered from depression and takes medication to control a chemical imbalance. Mrs. Powell, who has expressed strong reservations about her husband entering the race, was diagnosed with the chemical imbalance several years ago, Powell spokeswoman Peggy Cifrino said today. "She takes medication," which controls the condition with no side effects, Cifrino said, confirming reports in Newsweek and the Philadelphia Inquirer. The spokes­woman said she did not know what kind of medication Mrs. Powell takes and that she would not ask because Mrs. Powell is a private citizen. Millions of Americans take medication to control depression. Mrs. Powell, 57, has said she would fear for her husband's safety should he enter politics. and her reticence is said to be a key factor as he considers whether to run. In his autobiogra­phy, Powell depicts her as a stalwart military wife and close confidante who made the best of their many house­hold moves as his career progressed. 
C 1995 AccuWeather, Inc. ~ ~ ,...-/\

0 ~ ~ ~ L-!. ~ 
FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
sai:~ :~~~fe~h$~~~tt~fDi~~k~~ ~::~ ~~~~~rf8~~~i~l~~os~ ~~~ 1i~ i~m~o~9 ~;~l ~~4 tae;.i~ 
television. That in 1992. there were 
6.4 million pregnancies. 4 million births and 1.5 million abortions. The rest were mis­carriages. Seventeen percentof women of childbearing age used contraceptive pills; 10.5 
percent relied on condoms. Thirty percent were surgical­
ly sterile The book is a set of statis­tics in itself. bringing togeth-
Brian Blank 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
I' •  I , t  It 1 •  -------~------------~-------~  
Wednesday, November I, 1995  The Observer • NEWS  page 3  

NASAND plans events 




O'Meara names appointees 
Special to the Observer chemistry. theology.
for awareness month 
-F. Richard Ciccone, adjunct -John Finnnis, Robert and 
Spedul lO the Observer 
The Native American Student Association of Notre Dame (NASAND) will sponsor two campus events in November in observance of Native Ameriean Awareness Month. 
Tlw film "Thundcrheart" will bn shown in Cushing audito­rium on Thursday (November 21at H p.m. 
Tlw 111m features asp~1cts of Native Ameriean culture. reser­vation life, and political corrup­tion within and without the mservation community. 
A panel is discussion with Nativ11 American students will follow the presentation. Admission is fre11. 
Nalive Am11rican comedian Charlie llill will perform on Novmnher II at 8 p.m. in thn llesburgh Library auditorium. 
An Oneida Indian from Wis­consin, Hill worked as a disk jockey, studied acting and was a member of a Wisconsin the­atre group before becoming nationally famous as a per­former on the Richard Pryor Show. 
llis first album, "Born Again Savage," was recently released by Headband Productions. 
lie now appears on numerous late night television programs, including Jay Lena's Tonight Show and David Letterman's Late Night. and he has a role in an upcoming episode of Hoseanne. 
Tickets to Hill's Notre Dame appearance ($3 for students and $5 for all others) will be sold at the door. 
If you see news happening, call The Obseruer at 1-5323. 

Free Pregnancy Test Referrals to Support Agencies Confidential Counseling 
(24 hours) 

SOUTH BEND 

417 N. St. louis Blvd. 
(Convenient to Campus) 
University of Notrfl Dame academic-administrative and faculty appointments for the 1995-1996 academic year have been announced by the University's provost, Timothy O'Meara. 
Faculty appointed since fall 1994 are: 
-David Alonso, visiting assistant professor, depart· ment of chemistry and bio­chemistry. 
-Albert-Laszlo Barabasi, assistant professor of physics. -Hobert Battalio, instructor of finance. 
-Susan Blaha, adjunct assis­tant professor of the Freshman Writing Program. 
-Cara Carroccia, assistant professor of architecture. -Eve Caudill; visiting assis· tant professor of marketing. ·Karen Chandler, assistant professor of mathematics. -Cheng-wu Chi, visiting pro· fessor of chemistry and bio· 
professor of American stud­ies. 
-Oliver Collins, associate professor of electrical engi­neering. 
-Marc Cameron Conner, visiting assistant professor of the Program of Liberal Studies. 
-Olivia Constable, associate professor of history. 
-Michael Coppedge, associ­ate professor of government and international studies. 
-Lt. Stephen Cory, assistant professor of naval science. 
-Brian Ford Crisp, fellow in the Kellogg Institute for Inter­national Studies. 
-Zadila Suarez de Mata., visiting professor of biological sciences. 
-Linda Doversberger. adjunct staff librarian. 
·David Fagerberg, John A. O'Brien assistant professor of theology. 
-Fr. James Ferguson, adjunct assistant professor of Frances Biolchini professor of · law. 
-Robert Fleischman, assistnt professor of civil engineering and geological sciences. 
-Hobert Florence, visiting instructor of finance and business economies. 
-Linda Flosi, visiting assis­tant professor of romance languages and Jit(~rtltures. 
-Liangyan Ge, assistant pro­fessor of classical and Oriental languages and litera­tures. 
-Hoya Ghiaseddin, adjunct assistant professor of management and psychology. 
-Kevin Gibley, adjunct assis­tant professor or tht' Freshman Writing Program. 
-Sharon Guess, adjunct in­structor of accountancy. 
-Dirk Guidi, assistant professional specialist of tho Radiation Hesearch Laboratory. 






Holtz to auction neck brace 
Money will go to benefit Logan Center 
Special 10 the Observer 

The medical neck brace worn by Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz since his September spinal surgery will be auctioned off by WNDU-TV on Thursday. 
The television station is cur­rently accepting bids, which must be received via U.S. Mail, facsimile, electronic mail or hand-delivery by 10 a.m. Thursday. 
The brace, which has been autographed and dated by Holtz, will become the prop­erty of the highest bidder, and the proceeds will be donated to the Logan Center in South Bend. 
Logan Center is a not-for­profit care center providing a range of services to the developmentally disabled. 



Thunderheart 
"A Dramatic Movie, Starring Val Kilmer, Abou Corruption And Culture." 
All persons, age 18 or older, are eligible to participate in the auction, except for the employees and their families of WNDU and the firms aiding in the administration of the auc­tion. 
Bids can be submitted as fol­lows: 
• 
Mailed entries: WNDU-TV, Lou Holtz Neck Brace Auction, Box 1616, South Bend, Ind., 46634-1616 

• 
Facsimile bids: 219-631­1639 

• 
E-mail bids: news.cen­ter.16@nd.edu 

• 
Hand-delivered bids: WNDU-TV, 54516 Business 


U.S. 31 North, South Bend, Ind., 46637 
Each bid must include the bidder's name, address, day­time and evening phone num­bers, and amount of bid. 
In the event two or more persons bid the highest amount, those persons will be notified by telephone and given the opportunity to bid again. 
If WNDU-TV is unable to contact any of the parties in­volved in the tie bid, the tie will be resolved by a random drawing. 
If the winning bidder fails to make payment within 24 hours of being notified, the eligible person with the next highest bid will be declared the win­ner. 
Payment can be made by certified bank check or money order, payable to "Logan Center," at the WNDU-TV busi­ness office. 
No other form of payment will be accepted. 
The auction is being con­ducted by Michiana Telecast­ing Corporation, owner of WNDU-TV. 
It is being administered by the auction judges: Gary Sieber, Louis Pierce, Ellen Cooke and Gregory Giczi. all employees of Michiana Tele­casting. 
All above rules will be ad­ministered and interpreted by the judges, and all decisions by the judges are final. 

espeare QCompanp nts 
Parents Weekend! 
8:00PM 
Friday Nov. 3, Washington Hall 
LET 

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1995 7:00pm Cushing Auditorium 


FREE ADMISSION 
Panel discussion with Native American student following the film. 


--~-~-----­
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, November 1, 1995 

Steinke 
continued from page 1 

panels and committees through out the year. 
"Julie's leadership and com­munication style set her apart from the other students," said Linda Tim, Vice President of Student Affairs. 
All students are encouraged to apply the second semester of their junior year. "I think ev­eryone should try for it," said Steinke. "Because it is a great opportunity too find out more about the college, and to be surrounded by great intellec­tual people. The process is also a good job interview prepara-

Medina 
continued from page 1 
cessable contingent. 

Of this unheralded interna­tional communication, Medina said, "This is actually a positive effect of' the embargo for our religions." 
While Cuban leader Fidel Castro has not done anything as extreme as outlawing reli­gion, Medina admitted, "It's true that religion and social life have been constricted, but this is changing." 
Another example Medina gave of Cuba's increasing role in religion was the Cardinal of' Havana's recent appointment as vice president of Celam, a Latin American Catholic coali­tion. 
Despite these advances of Catholicism, Protestantism re­mains the dominant institution in Cuba, Medina asserted. Recent changes resulting in more active and participative liturgies have added to Protestantism's popularity. 
In Third World capitalist countries, political and moral transitions must be aided by a modern rationaliy, a rationality that Medina felt Protestantism is providing in Cuba. Protestantism may develop into an important role in Cuba; to see how potentially important one need only examine the role that the religious right current­ly plays in American politics. 
And so, Medina tried to show that although Cuba's religious community may counter the beliefs of many outsiders, it is still vying for a more suitable form of religion, notably Protestantism. 
HPC 
continued from page 1 

stead of directly being given out. 
Since the money allocated to dorms by student government comes directly from the student body's tuition, the HPC was concerned that some might object to their tuition dollars going toward a specific charity. 
The HPC discussed the point that, according to the school's constitution, four dorms must sponsor an event in order to receive money. This point has been disregarded in the past through events such as Carrol­l's Haunted House and Keenan Hall's Keenan Revue. 
Thi-s provision was made so that one dorm would not be granted a large part of the funds for performing an event which only a small part of the student body would be attend­ing. 
In light of this debate, a bud­get meeting was scheduled in order to further discuss these issues. The HPC plans to vote on these issues in the near fu­ture. 
The HPC also heard from a member of the Native Ameri­can Student's Association at Notre Dame last night. 
Sophomore Reymundo Diaz explained how members of his group were offended by what they say is the exploitation of 

Ministry 
continued from page 1 

pus ministry, and are interested in the prospect of being able to further their own spiritual life while helping others further their spiritual life. 
"Campus ministry has not al­ways been a part of the stu­dents lives, but now that they are connected they may be­come a larger part of our lives," said LeMans Hall secretary, 
Spring Break 1996 
TRAVEL FREE!! 

Jamaica. Cancun. Bahamas 
Panama Cjty. Daytona. Padre 
** Great low, low prices 

** Free Trip on only 15 sales 
Call for a FREE ~ joformatjon packet ! 'T 
~ Sun Splash Tours u 1-800-426-771 0 
Professional Society Meeting 
WITH Guest Speakers FROM 
IU Medical School 
''How TO GET INTO MEDICAL SCHOOL''' 
Thursday, November 2 
6:45 in 182 Nieuwland Science Hall 
Native Americans depicted in the murals of Christopher Columbus located in the Main Building. He also discussed how NASA-NO planned to dis­cuss this issue with the admin­istration. 
The students met with Patri­cia O'Hara, vice-president of student affairs last Friday. She said she would pass the stu­dents' concerns along to the University's officers when she meets with them at the next of­ficers' meeting on November 28. 
Any students interested in this issue should call the Multi­cultural Office and speak with Candice Pascua, president of NASA-NO. 
NASA-NO has suggested that the paintings be placed in the Snite Museum of Art. The group believes the paintings to be art. However, they disagree with the paintings' depiction of Columbus discovering America. NASA-NO believes Columbus was merely lost and did not discover anything. 
Since the paintings could be perceived as depicting the white race as superior to Native Americans and other races, NASA-NO and other multicultural groups believe they have no place in the Main Building. 
In addition, Alumni Hall an­nounced its Thanksgiving Blood Drive, which will occur on November 15 from 9 a.m. until 4 a.m. in Alumni's lounge. 
Angie Cataldo. 

As part of the new program, lecturers for the Lenten lecture series, "Friendship as Holi­ness," will be a part of lun­cheons hosted by the residence halls with the students after the lecture in Stapleton Lounge. 
Michigan considers stricter welfare laws 
By JUDY DAUBENMIER 
Associated Press 

LANSING, Mich. 
Welfare recipients who don't try to find a job would lose their benefits after 60 days under tough new rules pro­posed Tuesday by Gov. John Engler. 
The program is not meant to punish, but to encourage wel­fare recipients to participate in society, the governor said. 
"We think that the best wel­fare reform is a job and that private sector jobs are avail­able to many," Engler said. "This landmark day marks the end of welfare as we know it and the beginning of a new, empowered life for aid recipi­ents." 
Engler and legislative leaders said 1hey expect to pass the package by the end of the year so it will be ready to implement by the time Congress grants states more flexibility to run their own programs. 
Engler, a Republican in his second term, and welfare chief Gerald Miller predicted the changes would drastically re­duce welfare rolls but declined to estimate how much. 
The proposal builds on efforts underway in Michigan since 1992 to push welfare recipients into jobs. The state estimates more than 70,000 families have left welfare for work since Oc­tober 1992. 
Recipients must already look for work, perform community service or work 20 hours a 

~ 

,W 








Schedule for November 
domingo, 5 de Noviembre de 1995 
11:30 a.m. Stanford-Keenan Chapel 
The Most Rev. Mark G. McGrath, D.O. Archbishop Emeritus of Panama 

domingo, 12 de Noviembre de 1995 
No Spanish Mass 


domingo, 19 de Noviembre de 1995 
11:30 a.m. Stanford-Keenan Chapel Padre James McDonald, c.s.c. 

Todos Estan Invitados 
week to receive benefits, but it currently takes a year for the state to trim benefits of those who don't comply. 
Under the proposed rules, a single case worker will be re­sponsible for helping a welfare recipient line up all needed ser­vices, from finding a part-time job to establishing paternity or arranging child care. And the worker will be responsible for a recipient until he or she is off welfare. 
Currently, a recipient may have to speak to several people to get all the assistance avail­able. 
The state would step up en­forcement of child abuse and neglect laws in cases of chil­dren whose parents lose their benefits because they refuse to follow the new rules, Miller said. 
"Welfare mothers can no longer expect to stay home with their children and count that as productive activity," Engler said. Staying at home is "fine as long as you don't ask somebody else to pay the bills." 
The exceptions: mothers of children less than 6 weeks old, teen mothers and people with disabilities, said John Truscott, a spokesman for the governor. Teen-age mothers will be re­quired to live with parents, other relatives or in an adult home. 
A former recipient of Aid to Families With Dependent Chil­dren wasn't sure putting new mothers to work is a productive move. 

Wednesday, November l, 1995 The Observer • THE QUEBEC SECESSION VOTE page 5 


Canadian dollar holds steady; investors still fret 
By BARBARA BORST 
Associated Press 
TORONTO 

The Quebec referendum vote that preserved Canada lifted stoeks and the Canadian dollar Tuesday. But the federalist vic­tory was so narrow, and long­term prospects so eloudy, that investors and exeeutives re­mained wary. 
The outeome was "a reprieve, not a pardon," said Desmond Morton, director of the McGill University Institute for the Study of Canada. 
"The Canadian dollar may go up, but not as far as if the issue had been put in a box and buried," he said. 
The Toronto Stock Exchange composite index shot up 130 points Tunsday and settled baek to close up 79.40 points, or about 1.8 percent, at 4,459.16. The Canadian dollar ended its North American trading day at 
74.35 U.S. cents. up 0.77 eents from Monday. In response, tho Bank of 
. Canada lowered a key interest rate used to set consumer rates. Analysts predicted it will also slash up to 1.25 percent­age points off the bank rate. Standard and Poor's and Dominion Bond Hating Service reaffirmed Quebec's bond rat­ings. 
"In the short term, it's good," 
. said Sttwen Polidoro, president of a Quebec-based bag manu­facturing company. "Now we're worried about thn long term." 
The vote Monday gave those opposed to Quebec indepen­denell a narrow victory -50.6 perc11nt to 49.4 percent. 
Maurice Marchon of the Uni­versity of Montreal Sehool of Advanced Business Studies said that, though the markets may be relieved by the separatists' defeat. the message remains clear: "Accept radical change in Canada, otherwise next time it will be 60 percent Yes." 
He is pessimistic about politi­cal change because Prime Min­ister Jean Chretien, a federalist, and Quebec Premier Jacques Parizeau, a separatist, are "not the right people to make it.' 
Without such evolution, Que­bec and the rest of Canada will continue "on a collision course" that will continue to make the economic climate uncertain, Marchon said. 
However, Marchon was op­timistic about the economy. He predicted growth of 2.2 percent for this year and 2.7 percent for next. He believes interest rates will decline, though not as much as if the No vote had been more decisive. 
The Toronto Star said the slim victory was "not the win the markets wanted." Despite "initial applause by world mar­kets," the economic dividend could be quite small, the paper said. 
Lloyd Atkinson, an economist at MTA Investment Counsel, told the Toronto Globe and Mail that the "this kind of victory, if you can call it that, just opens a Pandora's box." 
He anticipates the federal government will have to pursue further deficit and debt reduc­tion and says Quebec, also heavily indebted, will be forced to follow suit. 
Analyst Mario Angastiniotis of MMS International expressed faith in a higher Canadian dol­lar and lower interest rates. 
"The uncertainty may still be 

Quebec's future 
I.~.,.·,
fi(J' 

Some possible scenarios that could follow a separatist victory: 
A SECOND REFERENDUM 

• The federal government could hold a referendum nationwide, asking Canadians whether it should proceed to negotiate Quebec's secession. Or it could seek a second referendum in Quebec with a more direct question on separation. 
A FEDERAL ELECTION 

•Prime Minister Jean Chretien and his Liberal Party, if defeated after campaigning so hard against separation, might feel compelled to call a national election to see if they have a mandate to grapple with the secession crisis. 
LEGAL REVIEW 

• 
Canada's constitution makes no provisions for a province to secede unilaterally. The government could ask the Supreme Court to examine the legality. 

CONSTITUTIONAL TALKS 


•Chretien 
could propose a federal-provincial constitutional conference to remake Canada instead of allowing Quebec to secede. 


AP 
there but it's a different kind of uncertainty," he said. "You're not on the brink of breaking up the country." 
Sherry Cooper, chief econo­mist for investment dealer Nesbitt Burns, said the referen­dum's close result should moti­vate the federal government to make constitutional changes for Quebec and to "continue on the train of deficit reduction." 
McGill's Morton said the fed­eral government faces intense political pressure. 
By DAVID CRARY 
Associated Press 

MONTREAL 
Stung by defeat in the se­cession referendum, Quebec Premier Jacques Parizeau said Tuesday he plans to resign. He also apologized for blaming the loss on non-French immigrants. 
Parizeau maintained staunch support, however, for the sepa­ratist cause that has been at the heart of his long political career. He said his Parti Quebecois would choose new leadership capable of achieving independence for the mostly French-speaking province. 
Parizeau, 65, was elected premier last year after promis­ing to hold a referendum on secession. His side lost Monday, but only narrowly -50.6 per­cent to 49.4 percent. 
But at a time when the sepa­ratists could have been taking heart at their strong showing, Parizeau shocked even his al­lies with a bellicose speech at campaign headquarters, blam­ing the defeat on immigrants. 
"It's true we have been de­feated, but basically by what?" Parizeau said. "By money and the ethnic vote." 
Parizeau's co-leader in the separatist camp, Lucien Bouchard, distanced himself from the ethnic remarks Tues­day, signaling that the pre­mier's position had become untenable. 
Parizeau expressed regret for 

Parizeau: Immigrants weighed heavily in outcome 
By SHEILA NORMAN-CULP 
Asso~iated Press 
MONTREAL 

Us and them. 
That's how Quebec Premier .Jaeques Parizeau described Francophone separatists like himself. and ethnic voters whom he blamed for demolish­ing tlw separatists' dreams of making Quebm~ a new country. 
!lis eornments left immigrants in Quebec wondering -once again -if the province's Frcneh majority would evnr consider them more than sec­ond-class citizens, and prompt­ed television analysts to label Parizeau a demagogue. 
"It's true we have been de­feated, but basically by what? By money and the ethnic vote," Parizeau said Monday night in a thundering speech to French separatists. 
On Tuesday, the backlash from those comments was so great that Parizeau announced his resignation at the end of the fall legislative term and apolo­gized for his comments. 

"I spoke too harshly, but that does not change the facts," said the 65-year-old politician, whose name is synonymous with the push for sovereignty. Parizeau said he had decided to leave "a long time ago," but there were no hints of that position in his concession speech Monday. 
Immigrants make up an esti­mated 10 percent of Quebec's population -or about 700,000 people -and are concentrated around Montreal, the province's largest city. 
They provided a key swing vote in Monday's referendum, with 90 percent voting against separatism in an election de­cided by the thinnest of mar­gins. 
Lana Osborne, 42, a native of Trinidad and Tobago who came 
Quebec premier quits after devastating vote 
his phrasing, saying he used terms "that could have been much better chosen." But he reiterated his view that Quebec's French-speaking majority had, in effect, been thwarted by non-francophones. 
About 90 percent of English­speaking and immigrant Que­beckers opposed secession, while French Quebeckers ­who make up 82 percent of the population -voted for inde­pendence by a 60-40 margin. 
Earlier Tuesday, Bouchard ­a possible replacement for Parizeau -scoffed at an offer from Prime Minister Jean Chretien to negotiate a new sta­tus for Quebec. 
"Never again will sovereign­lists be begging for anything from the rest of Canada," declared Bouchard. He said Quebec would sit down for talks with Canada only after winning a future independence referendum. 
Chretien, chastened by the razor-thin federalist victory Monday, said he would try to get other provincial premiers to support changes that would decentralize the government and recognize Quebec as a dis­tinct society. 
Bouchard described his re­action to Chretien's offer as "boredom" and "big yawns." 
"Nobody's going to get us sovereigntists involved in an­other 30 years of sterile dis­cussions," he said. 

to Montreal 23 years ago, said the premier's comments stung. 
"I think he was just ignorant. I felt it was the hurt of losing that brought it on," she said, fingering the cross around her neck after leaving Mass at St. Patrick's Cathedral. 
"Hopefully, we will be able to overcome that. But if this the head speaking, you have to wonder at the party's mes­sage." 
Parizeau's comments "con­firm what we have always believed: This was a very racist campaign. They were trying to hide it, but it came out," said Farhat Abbasi, president of the Islamic Center of Quebec. 
"Ethnic groups do not enjoy the same respectability that 'pur Iaine' French do," he added, using an expression meaning pure wool that refers to long-time French residents of Quebec. 
Quebec, which has some au­tonomy over its immigration policies, has given preference to French-speaking immigrants from the Caribbean and West Africa. Studies, however, have found that the children of these immigrants are cool to Quebec separatism and see the ability to speak English as a ticket to job opportunities throughout Canada. 
That sentiment was echoed by Alex Louis, 39, a Haitian who came to Montreal 10 years ago and now drives a cab. His two sons, 8 and 12, are fully bilingual even though he speaks little English. 
Louis voted No on Monday. 

Northwestern College of Chiropractic 
Professional Su,e-cess Tltrougll Clinical Exce/lmce 
For 53 years, Northwestern College of Chiropractic has been preparing doctors of chiropractic. We have more than 3,000 graduates across the globe who are successful, productive clinical practitioners. 
Northwestern College of Chiropractic will provide you: 
• 
A well-rounded, rigorous education integrating the basic and clinical sciences, diagnosis, X-ray, chiropractic therapeutics and practice management 

• 
Clinical education through every step of the curriculum, beginning with hands-on chiropractic technique classes in the first trimester 

• 
limited enrollment, small classes (11 :1 student to laculty ratio), individual attention from faculty, and easy access to educational resources 

• 
Clinical internships within 35 Minnesota community clinics and five College public clinics 

• 
A research center known internationally as a leader in clinically-controlled research trials, which is dedicated to advancing the knowledge of chiropractic 

• 
Extensive financial aid resources 

• 
Final term, full-time private practice internships in clinics around the world 


Northwestern College of Chiropractic 
For a personal visit or more detailed information, call a Northwestern
2501 West 84th Street 
Admissions counselor at 1-800·888·4777. You'll discover the exceptional Bloomington, MN 55431 difference an education at Northwestern can make in your life. 1-800-888-4 777 

page 6 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS 


Bankruptgovernorturnstowife 
Ex-juror: Government knew of plot 
By EUN-KYUNG KIM 
Associated Press 

PHOENIX 
Gov. Fife Symington, a one­time millionaire who promised to run the state like his real estate empire, told creditors at a bankruptcy hearing Tuesday he has turned to his wife and mother to help pay his mount­ing debts. 
The two-term Republican un­derwent a painstaking exami­nation of his finances but of­fered little new in his first court appearance since filing for per­sonal bankruptcy Sept. 20. 
Though he comes from a fam­ily that traces its wealth to industrialist Henry Clay Frick, and is married to a wealthy heiress, Symington claimed assets of just $61,000. Other assets. including his townhouse in an exclusive gated communi­ty, are in the name of his wife, Ann. 
Symington lost millions in Arizona's boom-to-bust real estate economy in the late 1980s and early 1990s. 
He owes nearly $25 million, including more than $11 mil­lion to a consortium of union pension funds that financed a downtown shopping center that has attracted almost no shops or shoppers. 
Attorney Michael Manning, representing the pension funds, questioned Symington for near­ly two hours. He probed for details of family trusts that Symington said were estab-
By PAUL QUEARY 
Associated Press 

OKLAHOMA CITY 
The grand juror thrown off the panel investigating the fed­eral building bombing says the government has known all along who John Doe No. 2 is and even knew of the plot before the explosion. 
He "was either a government agent or a government infor­mant, either way they had ... prior knowledge to the bombing and that's what they can't afford to have come out," Hoppy Heidelberg says in tran­scripts of an interview with Media Bypass, a magazine with ties to anti-government militias. 
''I'm satisfied that the govern­ment knows who he is," Heidelberg says of the suspect pictured in FBI sketches dis-
Career Options within Non-Profit Organizations 
The decision, the opportunities, the challenges, the rewards! 
A panel of ND alums will share their career paths and experiences, offer suggestions, and answer questions 
• Bill Appleby Purcell, MDiv '92 
Vice President, Non-Profit Regional Training United Way of E1khart County 
• 
Bonnie Raine, PhD '83 Executive Director United Health Services ofSt. Joseph County 

• 
Roger Mullins, MBA '91 


Associate Vice President for Human Resources University of Notre Dame 
Thursday, November 2nd 4:00 -5:30 p.m. 
Center for Social Concerns 
tributed right after the bomb­ing. "Just a hunch on my part." 
His quotes come from more than 200 pages of transcripts filed by prosecutors contesting the defense motion to dismiss the indictment against Timothy McVeigh and Terry Nichols. 
McVeigh and Nichols could face the death penalty if con­victed on murder and conspira­cy charges in the April 19 bombing that killed 169 people. 
Defense lawyers submitted tightly edited transcripts of the interview earlier this month, saying Heidelberg's statements show that prosecutors illegally refused to present evidence demanded by jurors about John Doe No. 2 and a larger conspir­acy. 
The full transcript shows that Heidelberg was the lone dis­lished for him by his grandfa­ther. 
Manning also asked the gov­ernor to confirm figures in­cluded in a series of finanCial statements used to secure bank loans for some of his 13 real estate developments. 
Creditors are expected to try to get money from the trusts or Ann Symington, and to try to prove Symington fudged the statements to get loans. 
Symington responded vaguely to most questions, saying he could not recall specific details of transactions that in some cases were several years old. 
Symington's temper flared briefly when Manning ques­tioned him about a figure in a news release issued by the gov­ernor the day he filed for bank­ruptcy. 
"Perhaps you're trying to embarrass me?" he said. The governor later called the ques­tion "pure politics." 
Manning said that despite the sometimes vague answers, he was satisfied. 
"It's the first round and it went like we expected it to," he said. "We gained a lot of infor­mation we needed. There's a lot of fodder to follow." 
Symington said he has four family trusts which provide about $30,000 a year in in­terest. He said he also has re­ceived portions of the principal on a few occasions in the past. 
"I have the ability to request a distribution from the trustees. 
They are totally independent. Sometimes they say yes, some­times they say no," Symington said. He provided no details other than to say that some of the money from the trusts went to pay legal and accounting fees. 
He said he doesn't know the total value of the trusts, though he has previously said they are worth less than $1 million total. 
Symington also said his wife and mother have helped pay off legal bills that have amounted to over $1 million. 
He was sued in 1991 by the federal Resolution Trust Corp. over his actions as director of a failed savings and loan that invested in one of his projects. He and other defendants settled the $200 million lawsuit for $12 million in an agreement that didn't require Symington to pay any money or admit wrongdo­ing. 
A parallel criminal investi­gation by a federal grand jury continues. 
In addition to legal fees, Symington said he owed about $1 million to the accounting firm Coopers & Lybrand and has paid part of it. 
"Those fees were paid out of various sources, some of which I paid, some of which my wife paid," Symington said. He said his mother, Martha, also con­tributed $30,000 to $40,000. Anything not resolved in the hearing will have to be handled in a formal court hearing. 
Brandon Candura/The ObseiVer 
The Wicked Witch of the West 
Lucille Preuss, a Notre Dame staff member at South Dining Hall, cele­brated Halloween yesterday by spooking students at their dinners. 
senter, and even he voted to indict. Grand juries can vote to hear whatever evidence they deem necessary, but prosecu­tors effectively control what they see and hear. 
A judge could still jail Heidelberg, 55, for as long as six months. 









4™ Day 
TONIGHT! 
Mass for the Feast of all Saints 

7:15 PM 
Stanford-Keenan 
Chapel 
Wednesday, November l, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page7 
MeiDorial honors those killed in Indiana plane crash 
By NANCY ARMOUR Bells at a local church rang "There are bonds and friend­members went to the crash Indianapolis, where she had Assucoatrd Pres. 68 times. once for each crash ships here that would have site, where residents have built been having her wedding dress victim, as a white brick memo­never formed, kindnesses a permanent roadside memo­fitted. HOSEI.AWN, Ind. rial at the Lincoln Township never extended, love that rial. She was supposed to have 
Family and friends of those Volunteer Fire Department would have never been White crosses bearing the been married last November. killnd in the erash of American was unveiled. shared," Hansen shared. "The names of each victim have "(The memorial) is just fabu­Eagln Flight 4184 returned to price was high, but we were been erected in front of a mar­lous," Smith said. "We really, the sight once more Tuesday, The memorial bears a plaque not given a choice. God decid­ble boulder with a plaque really do like it." this time to dedicate two with the names of all the vic­ed that it was their time to reading, "In memory of the Before the memorial ser­mnmorials to their loved ones. tims, as well as poems by two return home." crew and passengers of Flight vices, some family members 
"It's dil1icult to think she's in community members. 4184, October 31, 1994." held a news conference to three different places. Parts of The familifls would not have A cold rain fell as the memo­Family members carrying thank the community and hnr are hern, parts of hflr are been able to get through the rial was dedicated and family candles wept as they bowed express their displeasure with in Merrillville, parts of her are horrible months after the members huddled together to their heads in a moment of si­American Eagle officials. in (a eemetery)," said LaVerne crash without the love and keep warm. lence at 3:57 p.m. CST, the ex­lloskins, whose daughter support of the community, said The weather was much like act time the plane crashed one Human remains and person­Cheryl Dwyer was killed last Pat Hansen, whose brother it was a year ago, when Flight year ago. al effects are still being found llalloween. Frank Sheridan was killfld. 4184 plunged into a farm field Afterward, many left pictures at the crash site, they said, dis­
That residents would build a as it made its way from and flowers at their loved playing two plastic baggies ''I'm really grateful that memorial to people they never Indianapolis to Chicago. one's cross. filled with bone fragments and thfly've remembered them." knew means more than fami­"(The memorial) helps with Greg Smith of Indianapolis plane pieces. 
lies can express, she said. some of the pain," said Nick brought his dog Rosco with The tag identifying co-pilot Modaff. whose daughter Sandi him to the ceremony. Jeffrey Gagliano's baggage was was a flight attendant on the returned to his father AI 
Gagliano.
free transportation 
"This is hard for us,"
and admission for all minority Juniors and Seniorsr 

MINORITY 
Gagliano said. "It's always go­ing to be hard for us."

CAREER Friday
FORUM January 26
?It'-•__/~ 6
PARTIAL LIST OF ., .-.a J 
Have

EMPLOYERS ~ 
AnclPro.{'n{nmultmy, Artlu1r A11dC"rW11 
·n1e Fairmont Hotel 
Ro.~rcl of Covt•rnor!. of llw 
I rclrr.al R••\Nvt• Svstc•m Chicago, IL 

something

Roston Co••sultiiiK Group 
(NA lmurancr ( OOip.llliP\ 
TO REGISTER, send or fax your resume lmst & Young LLP with 3 industry preferences on the back to: f l<iPhty IOVPSI01f'lllo, 
Compaq Compulf"r Corporation 

to say?

•lorldJ PowPr & ( IRht (omp.lny Crimson & Brown As50aates, Inc Crneoral Motors Dt>lph•·S.lglflilw 201 Broadway
Slt>Prmg Systl'ms. GMC Hew•lt Assoc1att>s 
Gunbrid~ MA 02139 
Use

MJnor Care, Inc. 
Mercrr M.lnJgen•rnt Consult1ng (617)868·0181 phone Pnu• W.JtrrhousP UP (611) 868·0187/ax PrmC!pdl rlllJOCiill Group Prtldenllolllmur.tncP 
Observer

PrudPnh.ll SPcuniiP~ 
REGISTRATION DEADLINE: 
RR Oonnelley & Som. 
S£0 November 29 
ll S M.tru1P Corps US NJvy 

classifieds.

Meet and Interview with 
IJS Srcrf'l SPI'\IIte 


:::::~:::~:~:~:~::::::::::: :·::: 

$6 per tea 111 Limit 5 playera per team Sign upa: fhe Go~c;h GamefZ Room 
and ~~he Rec 5porta Office ~ Limited 5pace*'Availal:ile 




Win Great Prizes!!! 

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 


The Politics of Disabilities: 
Independence vs. Dependence 
The Inclusion of People with Disabilities in Communities of Faith 
Prof. Brett Webb--Mitchell 
Duke University Divinity School 
Thursday, November 2, 1995 7:30pm Moreau Seminary Auditorium 
The public is invited 
Sponsored by LOGAN and the University of Notre Dame Center for Social Concerns, Law School, Masters of Divinity Program and Moreau Seminary. For more information call LOGAN , 289,4831
NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 

page 8 


Energy Department to conduct nuclear tests 
By H. JOSEF HEBERT 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The Energy Department said Tuesday its Nevada Test Site will conduct six subcritical ex­plosions using nuclear materi­als over the next two years to help ensure the safety and reli­ability of its atomic weapons stockpile. 
Department officials empha­sized there will be elaborate safeguards to assure that the underground experiments are designed to prevent a self-sus­taining nuclear chain reaction and a nuclear explosion. 
The Clinton administration is committed to ending nuclear testing. Last August, President Clinton said he would seek a "zero" yield comprehensive test ban treaty as part of ongo­ing negotiations in Geneva. 
Bomb squad discovers device at courthouse 
Associated Press tify the judge, saying only that 
he had received threats involv-
CHICAGO ing two cases before his court, 
A "book bomb" addressed to one of them involving civil a federal judge was discovered rights. today at Chicago's federal cour-The bomb was discovered this thouse and detonated by a morning when the packagepolice bomb squad, authorities addressed to the judge was X-said. rayed. 
No injuries were reported. The parking garage area be-
The bomb, a book rigged to neath the skyscraper Everett M. explode when the recipient Dirksen Federal Building was opened it, could have caused then evacuated, and the bomb significant damage, U.S. Mar-squad detonated the book bomb shal Joseph DiLeonardi said. in the garage, officials said. 
DiLeonardi declined to iden-

Wanted: 
THE NOTRE DAME
r


Reporters, 
SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA Dan Stowe, Conductor 

photographers 
Featuring works by

and editors. 
Grieg, Tchaikovsky, Beethoven, Brahms 

Join The 
Thursday, November 2 
"To ensure these experi­ments cannot result in a ,nu­clear explosion and are, thus, consistent with the president's 'zero' yield policy, each exper­imental design will undergo a technical compliance review," the Energy Department said in a statement. 
"The analysis must conclude that, by design, the experiment will not reach criticality in order to proceed with experiment," it continued. 
The department said planned two subcriticality ex­periplents next year and four additional experiments in 1997. They will be conducted 980 feet underground at the Nevada Test Site's Lyner facility. 
Also, the department said it has awarded a five-year, $1.5 billion contract to Nevada Corp., to manage the test site. 
, 

8:00P.M.

Observer 
Washington Hall 

staff. 

Free admission









L .J 

------.-. -.---.,---..."T""l"...----------­
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
John Lucas Managing Editor Business Manager Eliz.abeth Regan Joseph Riley 

News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advenising Manager ........................... John Palter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ...................... Jen Mackowiak Spans Editor ............................. Mike Norbur Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accrnt &litor ......................... Krista Nannery Sysrems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary'• Editor .................... Patti Carson Observer Marketing Director .......... Pere Col<man Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
I 1 ' I 1 1 1 I , I I I I I ~ I I I •• I I I I •• '. j f I f. I ol I' 

VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, November 1, 1995 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the srudems of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa.im Mary's College. It does not necrssarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of rirhcr institution. Then~ is rrported as accurately and objecrively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns presem the views of the authors, and nor necessarily those: of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munary and to all rc-adrrs. The: frtt c:xpresston of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chiel 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managmg Editor/Vil'wpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sport~ 631-4543 Systems/Marketmg Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor I Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Vicwpoint.1@nd.edu Gener.lllnformdtion 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD 

Exploring questions ofequal representation 
D
on't make me have to punk you. Don't make me have to make you punk yourself. As I roll my eyes and give a deserved sigh of "good grief', I must control the overwhelming urge to go off and vent some bent up frustration. but I won't. not today anyway. 
1 just want to address one issue that bugs me probably 
more than anything else in my subconscious "trivial" section, which is the question of repre­sentation. 
From my knowledge, 1 am 
Cristiane Likely
probably the only black colum­nist who writes for this heralded newspaper. I've known a few edilors here and there. but that's about it. 
Someone asked me the other day if 1 am supposed to write about black issues; was that my calling or my specific duty? Well, no. No one specifically told me to write about black people. I just do. 
I know I ptlrsonally have a lot of things to talk about. 
A
lot of people were pleased to see another black person nominated for the position, but were in­credibly disappointed with Mr. (Uncle?) Thomas' in­ability to relate to and associate with the black com­munity. An utter mistake in my eyes. 
I am all for more blacks in all 
departments and companies 
across the nation, but I feel that only those blacks that have a sin­cere connection to the rest of us should be considered. 
Or rather if you are black, and you are cognizant of this fact and accept it without any psychologi­cal or dementia complexes, then 1 feel that you have an obligation to your community, as do 1. 

I can write about my distaste for alcohol alii want, but I have an obligation to write and try to represent my fellow brothers and sisters. 
The Honorable Louis Farrakhan is willing to repre­sent us and isn't apprehensive about making white people accountable, and what people seem to forget, 
hut always in the back of my head 1 know that if I don't, who will. 
Bnlinve me there have been times when I really have not wanted to sit down at this computer and write my artide/column, hut if I don't who will sptmk for me? Who will voice my in­tfJrcsts and concerns? Who will voice black students' interests and con­cerns'! 
Obviously, this is a problem not only at Notm Dame but nationwide. 
W
Our institutions, governmental and mlucational, lack equal representa­tion. which puts a heavy load on those individuals who lack the representa­tion and those sparse souls who have too much responsibility for their num­bnrs. but mom numbers isn't inher­ently the solution, for instance, Clamnce Thomas. hen Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall retired, he was contiguously replaced wilh 
'ourinstitutions, gov­
ernmental and edu­cational,lack equal repre­sentation, which puts a heavy load on those who lack the representation and and those sparse souls who have too much responsibility for their numbers, but more num­bers isn't inherently the solution, for instance, Clarence Thomas.' 
he is more so trying to make black folks accountable for all we have or sometimes have not done. 
Which brings up the issue of General Colin Powell. The man who considers himself the "Fiscal Conservative with a Social Conscious." 
Interesting. 
I personally don't know the man nor do I know much about him, but as a successful black man he has caught my attention. 
I do know that he grew up in South Bronx, in a less than stable community life, much like most black people. He beat the odds, went to college, joined the United States Army and became an imminent success. 
Now, I am not one to do the whole voting thing as I usually see it as either casting my vote for the devil or his brother, but now, now it is differ­ent. Powell might run, that changes everything. 

anotlwr so-called black man, Clarence Thomas, which He has said himself that if he were to run for presi­is a common praetice, no doubt. dent, he would most likely join the Republican party, 
I ftlel thnre is a danger when particularly black peo­which is disheartening, but he still is enticing. ple arn Stllected for such prestigious positions without A m 1 leaning his way simply because he is a black much thought given to their credibility or merit. J-\..man? Yes, but that doesn't mean 1am going to vote 
page 9 


for him. You see, he is the only one that even comes remotely close to representing me and my interests. Because he is black, he knows and understands what it feels like (well, at least I hope so). 
I want to know his platform and the ideas that he's tossing around. Republicans I tend to ignore or loathe, but a black Hepublican with Powell's merit, I will most certainly pay attention to. 
Some blacks will immediately reject him because of his tie to the Hepublican party, but I'm willing to give any brother a chance. Louis Farrakhan has hinted at joining in the political arena, but I have to give him the same amount of scrutiny as anyone else. 
Colin Powell may have the answer and the courage to do what he feels is right, but so may Farrakhan. It just depends on w.ho is willing to give it a whirl. 
Cristiane J. Likely is a senior living in Pasquerilla West Hall. She can be reached over e-mail at: clike­ly@artin.helios. nd. edu 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• 000NESBURY 
IUSi4YONp FOR lH/3 PA'fiTffl.f/ MO~ Y()(J Jl3RI<­
.AA?t.%Y
I'VE 8a3N 7HINK!NG 17WAS 

IA£GOT
7HIN61VR. 
~ 

f)/5513[)l
!MP05518/..& FOR YCXJ 7/AkJ 70
W,ZEK£... 
;11AN.

9NK ANY UJIA//31?..1 :£&NCW ANIJYaJ
I I
JU'3THOtu IVRIJN61 WA5! JU5T 5700P 
7HeRE! 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Technology ... the knack 
of so arranging the world that we don't have to experience it." 
-Max Frisch 
I • I ~ I I I I I I I 1 I I I 1 , I 1r ' I ~ I I ' 1 ' \ I ' • • I I ' , • 

t VIEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, November 1, 1995 
• MAY THE fORCE BE Wm1 You 
'Mondegreeners' interpret lyrics in their own way 
l blame my parents. l don't recall them ever tak­ing me to get my hearing checked as a child. Maybe that's why l hear Eric Clapton's "Lay Down Sally" as "Way Down South." Or sing Pearl Jam's "Can't Find a Better Man" as "Can't Find the Butter, Man." 
l know I'm not a loner when it comes to mis­heard lyrics. Surely, many of you have sung along to a song and have sung along wrong. Maybe in the shower, on the way to school, at mass. But the thing is most of us appear to be ignorant of our errors. And that's what is so funny. 
l used to think it was just me. You see I suffered great humiliation for belting out the wrong lyric at a middle school chorus concert. 
Flashback: The year is 1987. It's late spring. I'd been selected to sing an excerpt from "Huck Finn" the musical. A cue came from the piano and instead of 
singing about a pig, I sang 
about some man being big. Although I've almost gotten over the embarrassment, singing inaccurate verses of Kara Pavlik songs has been a common theme throughout my life. And it hasn't been that I try to sing a song correctly and fail to do so. On a whim I 
make-up my own lyrics only to be stopped by some annoyed person and cor­rected. 
But now there's support for those of us who've ever sung or heard a lyric wrong. Gavin Edwards, a contributing editor for Details magazine and author of 'Scuse Me While I Kiss This Guy and Other Misheard Lyrics (Fireside $8.95) gathered the courage to admit he was a chronic "monde­greener." A mondegreener is the technical term for one who mishears lyrics. His book is named after "'scuse me while I kiss the sky" in Jimi Hendrix's "Purple Haze." 
Mondegreens or misheard lyrics. are found in virtually every aspect of the music industry. This extends from the CD buyer who asks for a copy of the Queen hit "Bohemian Rap City" to people who ask for "This Is How We Do It" by Michael Jordan or Monte! Williams. It's by Monte! Jordan. . 
A common topic for mondegreens include primal concerns: food, sex, animalistic instincts. Certainly Freud would have had a field day with this sub­ject. Still, I have a hard time believing that all lyrics are "Freudian slips," as clever as some lyrics may be. My friend, for example, claims the catholic communion traditional "One Bread, One Body" is "One Bed, Two Bodies." Yeah, this wasn't deliberately misheard. 
However, all the mondegreens in Edward's book claim to be authentic mishearings. And from his book I've complied a list of my top ten favorites, the correct lyrics follow. 
1) "Mice Aroma." The Knack; it's "My Sharona." 
2) "Take your pants down and make it hap­pen." Irene Cara; it's "Take your passion and make it happen." From "Flashdance...What a Feeling." 
3) "Baking carrot biscuits." Bachman-Turner Overdrive; "Takin' Care of Business." 
4) "Secret Asian Man." Johnny Rivers; "Secret Agent Man." 
5) "Mama say mama saw my moccasin." Michael Jackson; "Ma rna se rna rna sa rna rna coo sa." From "Wanna Be Startin' Some thin'." 
6) "Regan rots in the hot sun." The Clash; "Breaking rocks in the hot sun." From "I Fought the Law." 
7) "My heels are alive with the sound of music." The 

counting on your ovaries." Billy Joel; "You were counting on your rosaries." From Notre Dame's favorite, "Only the Good Die Young." 
For years, concerned parents like Tipper Gore have asked for the labeling of popular music so song lyrics may be monitored. However, recent studies in this area have shown the majority of people do not understand song lyrics. Researchers try especially hard to find fault with heavy metal music but cannot do so because the lyrics can't be understood. Tipper, don't you really have to be the one who wrote heavy metal music to understand it? 
Plus, why worry about song lyrics being violent when many rightly decide they like their own ver­sion of a song. My version of Pearl Jam's "Can't Find the Butter, Man" is practical when I am in need of this condiment and it can't be found in a messy refrigerator. Hey, those dairy products are important. 
And according to Edwards, there is nothing wrong with coming out of the closet and singing lyrics as you hear them. For who's to say that absurd lyrics aren't more exciting? 
This column is dedicated to Rob Adams who taught us all a little something about "correct" lyrics... 
Kara Pavlik is a senior at Saint Mary's. She can be reached via e-mail at pavl7087@jade.saint­marys. edu 

Sound of Music; "The hills are alive with the sound of music." 
8) "Apartheid lover." Stevie Wonder; "Part-Time Lover." 
9) "And doughnuts make my brown eyes blue." Crystal Gayle; "Don't It Make My Brown Eyes Blue." 
10) "You were 

• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing this letter in response to Greg Barlin's Accent article (page 9) about the Flip Side, the cated to offering alcohol-free social activi.ties. to . 
Dame/Saint Mary's community.~. ...-_,.,,.,..., _:;::;:;:::.:·,.... 
The article itself was excellent and accurately portrayed the various aspects of our organization. However, we feel that the illustration accompanying the article-a plctutt} of a large beer mug with a cross throughit· can ~asHy lea,~ t!fJl misunderstanding of the purpose of our organization. · · · ···· 
The picture suggests that the purpose of our organization is to stamp out the use of alcohol on campus. This, as the thankfully emphasized, is not the case; . :t:.wrr 
Flip Side is not out to encourage nor discourage the alcohol on campus; we merely seek to provide alternative so­cial activities for people who might be looking for something different to do on weekends. Anyone, drinker or . . .......• who wants to participate in our activities is welcome tQ ••• us. 
Your dramatic graphic strongly suggested that the is some sort of Puritanical temperance crl,lsa<\e. N .... could be further from the truth; We're jusC(l.. group .. wants to help people at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's
fun. ...,,•... 
Unfortunately, this was not accurately conveyed by tb~ gi~ gantlc crossed-out overflowing beet mug. Pleat;e he a,ware this, and be more thoughtful in your use pfac(:onlpa.nyJtng graphics in the future. 
SMC Women's Center questions use of 'Belles' 
Dear Editor: 
We are writing in response to Kara Pavlik's article on the Saint Mary's mascot which appeared in The Observer on Oct. 10. We at the Saint Mary's Women's Center strongly support Pavlik's viewpoint which questions the appropri­ateness of "The Belles" as a school mascot. As a college dedicated to educating independent women, we feel a name such as "The Belles" is degrading. This issue has been present on cam­pus for the past two years, yet the apathy of the student body has hindered any sort of positive change which could occur. 
If Saint Mary's students truly care about their reputation and are concerned with the problems of stereotypes we are faced with, then we should take issues such as our degrading mascot seri­ously. 
The women's center offers the SMC community a comfortable atmosphere to discuss a variety of issues including politics, campus topics and soci­etal problems which we are faced with as women. We hope the SMC community will begin to take a stance on current issues. 
In a college environment such as our own. many times individuals overlook important topics which seem so minor because they become the norm. We invite you all to think in a different light and begin to truly look at what your school represents. 
Do you want to be known as a passive group of undereducated girls. or do you want to be known for who you truly are: strong, intelligent and growing women of the nineties? 
THE STUDENTS OF THE SMC WOMEN'S CENTER 


I\ I I I I I I I I I 1 1 1, 1 • 1 
_....




ACCENT
Wednesday, November I, 1995 page 11 
• ACCENT SPEAKS 
The Beauty of the Written Word 
By DAN CICHALSKI 
As>iMant Accent Editor 
H
enry David Thoreau once wrote (I think it was on a Tuesday) that "books are the treasured wealth of the world." If that's so, then I'm prelly wealthy right now. I don't know what kind of books Ilank was talking about-though I'll bet my complete set of "The Chronicles of Narnia" that he wasn't thinking of anything by Kato Kaelin-but chances are he was referring to literary classics by writing's suptlrstars rather than "Single Variable Calculus" or drug store sex novels that mention eertain anatomieal structures more often than a medical textbook. 
But my book wealth is not totally my own pllr­sonal favorites of Dave Barry, "Calvin and llohlHlS," and "Goodnight Moon." Instead, the majority of my ridws are a result of being an Arts and LettPrs major and taking such classes as "Anwriean Conditions: Poverty and Affluence in tlw United States from 1930-1990." ".Jaeksonian America." and "Core." 
All I do now is read. But don't think I'm complaining. It surll beats trying to figure out how long it will take for a 7500 gallon tank to fill up if ono pump is pulling water into the tank at four gallons per second while another is removing it at 6 gallons per five seconds. (The answ!lr, of l:ourse. is simple: Turn oiT the suck­ing pump. stupid.) 
In an in-depth study (meaning I've thought about il for a little while). I've eompared the amount of timll sp1~nt on work each night with what I did last year. under the Freshman Year of Studies. 
So far this senwstnr. an overwhelming majori­ty or my time is spent with my nose in a hook wlwreas last year. 1H% of my time was spent on all work. Part of the reason is my New and lmprovml Attitudll Toward Work while the rest is that l'vr, got approximately 342.8 pages to rnad each night. 
I'm rllally not complaining that much. Over tlw past six years I've read some outstanding hooks, including tho Groat Ameriean Novel. All six of them. But with having to spend my time reading sueh great works as "The Great (;atshy," "The Grapes of Wrath," and "llurklt~lwrry Finn" and surh horrendous vol­u nws as "Madanw Bovary," "The Scarlet Letter." and ovorything by Sigrid Undset, there is littln tirnn left for the "lost classics" and all the good new hooks coming out these days. I have rwvnr read any of llw recent movie hits like "Jurassie Park" and ean't tell you the last time I managml to linish Hichard Scarry's "Cars and Trueks and Things That Go." (That Officer Flossin is so determined.) 
With all this talk rncently (both on this eam­pus and hack home in New Jersey) about Kevin Coyne's "I>omers." I'll know everything about it bnforn I havn the ehanee to read it. 
Nolan Hyan may be dead by the time I have a eham:e to mad his autobiography (hut if his hasnball earner is any indication or how the rest of his life will turn out, he won't die until he's 130). I barely have time for The New York Times ovoryday but somehow I'm able to rnan­agn that. 
I tmvy people likn Observer Literary Critic Bryen Seki and my friend Matt, a computer 1mginonring major at Penn State, who are able to rtmd hooks for fun. In one week last sernes­wr. Matt rnad four Stnvnn King books and "The Complntn Works of I>ostoyevsky" and still had tinw to smut nw 1437 forwarded e-mail mos­sagns. 
But for now I'll havn to roly on Bryce's book rnvinws on thesn very pages and cateh King's nnwnst fliek whon it hits the silver screen ("Thinner" is next). 
Now if you'llllxeuse me, I've got some reading to do. 

By SARAH CASH ORE 
Assistant Accent Editor 
C
an spending 48 hours in the inner city really make a differ­ence? Can Urban Plunge change the way people think and feel? Can a person emerge from an Urban Plunge with a sense of hope after spending two days in a seem­ingly hopeless environment? 
The answer to each of these ques­tions? A resounding yes. In the overwhelmingly positive words of previous participants, Theology 365C, The Church and Social Action, or Urban Plunge, as it is commonly known, is a unique and incredibly beneficial opportunity to examine firsthand the problems facing America's inner city poor. While those who have partieipated in pre­vious Urban Plunges agree that par­ticipants will not return from a Plunge with solutions to the world's problems, they also agree that the 4H hours spent on an Urban Plunge ean fundamentally change the ways in which participants think about poverty and the poor. 
Urban Plunge is a two-day service project coordinated by the University's Center for Social Coneerns. To eneourage and maxi­mize student participation. Urban Plunge is scheduled over semester break. This year's Urban Plunge will be held during the week of January 3-11, 1996. Forty-one cities served as Plunge sites for the 328 Notre 
Dame, Saint 
------.. Mary's, 
and 

Holy Cross students who participat­ed in Urban Plunge last January. 
After completing a registration form and receiving an authorization number from the esc. those who ehoose to participate in Urban Plunge register for the program through DAHT. In addition to receiv­ing preparatory reading material and information. participants attend an Orientation Session in November. As a follow-up to the actual Plunge, students write a Reflection Paper and attend a small group discussion in late January. 
While some question the value of participating in a program of such brief duration, past participants nmphasize the impact of the pro­gram. Urban Plunge is not meant to be an intense service opportunity; rather, its stated objective is to enable participants "to witness and develop a disciplined sensibility to the conditions of poverty found in our cities." As the reflections of past participants reveal, this objective is unquestionably fulfilled. 
Hesponding to potential skeptics, junior Angie Auth, a Columbus, Ohio, Urban Plunge participant last January, discusses the program's objectives. "Urban Plunge isn't real-

ly something where you have to 
make a difference. It's social inter­
action with social problems. It's sup­
posed to give you a new perspective, 
not change your life." 

Junior Jeremy Jaskunas, another 
a '95 Plunge participant, agrees. In 
only 48 hours, Jaskunas notes, "you 
can't really make a difference. but it 
can make a difference within your­
self. It can erase a lot or misconcep­
tions." 

While the Urban Plunge ex­perience can offer only brief expo­sure to the problems of poverty, it can and frequently does inspire par­ticipants to continue exploring the issues of poverty and to become more involved with other service op­portunities. Jaskunas says his Plunge strongly influenced his deci­sion to participate in a CSC Summer Service Project in Detroit. After com­pleting his Harlem Urban Plunge, junior Erik Paulson became involved in Habitat for Humanity. Paulson also joined Auth and Jaskunas as members of the Urban Plunge Task Force. The Task Force consists of a group of previous participants who work with the Urban Plunge 
·Coordinator to organize, implement, 
and conduct follow-up sessions for 
the Plunge Program. Becky Gerben, 
a Detroit '95 participant not only 
serves as a Task 
Force member; she 
plans to 

• 
take the 

•
plunge a I I 

•
•
• 
over again this January. 

Participants agree that the most important aspects of the program are witnessing firsthand the condi­tions which face America's poor. and interacting with the men, women, and children who partici­pants encounter in soup kitchens, homeless shelters. and housing pro­jects. "The things that we saw, the people who we met and what they were willing to share -it shocked me a little," says Gerben. Paulson reflects that when he first arrived at his Harlem site, he expected to see alcoholics and drug addicts, the "stereotypical poor." Instead, he says, "I saw people who were intelli­gent, ambitious, people who had everything, except money." Jaskunas's experiences contradicted much of what he had heard about the poor in Chicago's housing pro­jects, and Auth says Urban Plunge "opened my eyes to what kinds of problems are out in the world." 
"Speaking to the people who are in that situation -it makes it more personal," says Gerben. "You realize that it's not just numbers, it's real people." Participants recall the sense of shock evoked by many of their experiences. "We ate dinner 
one night with several gang mem­bers and two Christian Brothers," Jaskunas recounts. "The Brothers showed a clip from a TV program which had been made about their work in Chicago's housing projects. While they were making this film, a little girl got shot and they showed her mother crying over her body in the street. The little girl was the sis­ter of one of the gang members we were eating with. That made it real." 
Paulson tells of a homeless man who cooked dinner for his Plunge group. A war veteran, this man had been deeply involved with helping runaways and poured so much into his efforts that he ran out of money. "He had such a wealth of knowledge that touched me very deeply," Paulson says. 
Although the situation in the cities which serve as Urban Plunge sites at times appeared hopeless to Plunge participants, most say that they came away from their Plunge expe­riences with a sense of hope. "Even though our Plunge Hosts said that this was about the worst that it could gBt," Gerben says. "I could still sell hope, and that was mally impor­tant." Jaskunas concurs: "I expected when I talked to these people that they wouldn't even want to continue living, but they're not as complet11ly miserable as you might think." 
Though hope can endure in the face of such adversity, Paulson stresses that adequate support for those impoverished is severely lacking. "I 
was com­
pletely impressed by the people who were running the programs and shelters we visited, but the funds and facilities just aren't enough," he said. 
One goal of the program is to make participants aware of the limi­tations and inadequaeies of support and, hopefully, to inspire them to do something about it. 
Can 48 hours make a difference? Undoubtedly. "I think it does change the way you look at things," Gerben observes. Says Jaskunas, "If noth­ing else, it can teach you that you don't know everything, that you don't really know anything." Forty­eight hours may not change the world. but they can-and wilt­
change you. 
Urban Plunges will be held the week of January 3·11. 1996. Registration forms are due November 10 and can be picked up from dorm representatives or at the esc. Informational meetings will be held tonight from 6-6:30p.m. in the Stapellon Lounge at Saint Mary's, and tomorrow from 6:30-7:30 p.m. at the esc. For additional informa­tion, please contact the eSC's Jan Pilarski or Mary Jo Paladino at 631· 7949. 
~~------------------­
I • I I I I I 1 t I It I I I I I. 
r 


ACCENT


page 12 Wednesday, November 1, 1995 

TORMING THE 
~~~~~ ~~~~=== 
...Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Whether it be for a week or a ~ 
semester. .. 
By KRISTIN TRABUCCO 
Accent Writer 
T
ake 21 community-minded college students, one week in October, welfare reform, and the nation's capital and what do you get? 
No, not one big economically con­scious party. It's the Washington Seminar. 
From October 14 through October 20, during Fall Break, a group of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students trav­eled to Washington. D.C., for the semi­nar, whose topic was entitled, "Welfare: Public or Private Responsibility." 
The students met with and heard a variety of speakers concerning different aspects of the welfare reform issue. These included Congressman Tim Roemer (D-IN), a Notre Dame alumnus. Patrick Fagan, a Policy Analyst for Family Culture at the Heritage Foundation, and Ron Haskins from the House of Representatives Committee on Ways and Means. 
They heard from both liberal and conservative sides, as well as from philosophical, economic, and moral positions. 
The focus of discussion was on how welfare reform affects children and young mothers, especially regarding the proposed "family cap," which cuts aid to young mothers on welfare who have more children. 
This cut is designed to diminish illegit­imacy in America, which some conser­vatives believe leads to the need for welfare. 
The students spoke with social work­ers who work with those on welfare, as well as those on welfare in order to get a closer perspective on the issue. They do not disagree that there is a need for reform, but they disagree with lawmak­ers on how the problem should be solved. 
The group in addition heard from the 
U.S. Catholic Conference, which provid­ed them with the views of Catholic bish­ops, who are not happy with the reforms. 
They are concerned with both citizens 


and government doing their share to help the poor. The bishops also fear that the "family cap" will cause an increase in the number of abortions. 
While the group was in Washington. they witnessed firsthand the Million Man March organized by Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan. It took place on Monday, October 16, with the "official" attendance figure approxi­mately 400,000. 
And regardless of the fact that Farrakhan maintains that the head 

students are taking Washington 

D. C. by storm. 
count was much-• lit • higher, it was the 1/,.IJf //flargest black audience ever convened in the 
T
he American U.S.. "It worked out 
University
well," said the trip's 
Washington
coordinator, graduate 
---=-;_-_--Semester Program is 
student Theresa 
~===-not politics as usual. 
Vithayathil, because it relat­ed to the issues the seminar was addressing. With the March, Farrakhan called for solidarity and self-help in the black community, as well as for men, especially black men, to take responsi­bility for their role in the family. 
The seminar group's visit also includ­ed tours of the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum, the White House, and a 
Gallery  Tour of the  House  of  
Representatives.  
Last  Friday,  the  House  of  

Representatives passed a bill proposed by Republicans which would balance the Federal budget in seven years, cut taxes, and give more administrative power to state governments. 
This bill, if not vetoed by President Clinton, will limit the amount of money going to Aid to Families with Dependent Children, a major part of the federal welfare program. Also. the bill will transfer to the states the right to decide who is given aid and how much they recieve. Government spending, in addi­tion, on such programs as assistance for child care and food stamps would be cut. 
Students who participated in the sem­inar attended three meetings before traveling to Washington. 
They were also given several reading assignments, from such sources as "Economic Justice for All" and "Putting Children and Families First," both writ­ten by the U.S. Catholic Conference, and three Congressional Research Service Reports for Congress on welfare. Participants also will attend two follow­up meetings, and during the second will meet with local leaders. 
The panel discussion will include rep­resentatives from the Center for the Homeless and Family and Children's 
Services of Saint Joseph's County who will give their agencies' view on the wel­fare reform situ­ation. 
The meeting will be held on November 6 at the Center for Social Concerns, although it has not yet been determined whether it will be open to the public. 
Student response to the experience was overwhelmingly positive. Sophmore Greg Vanslambrook commented, "I 

thought it was a great opportunity because we were actually talking to the people who were directly involved. We had our own certain mindset before we went, and we could challenge these people, and they could challenge us. Then they would say things that gave us new ideas." 
Washington Seminar gave those attending a chance to learn about the political process and to discuss and think about a serious issue that affects many U.S. citizens. 
Every semester, close to 
five hundred students from some 200 institutions nationwide join in Washington, D. C. for a semester of learning and fun. 
Saint Mary's has been part of this pro­gram for over 20 years while Notre Dame began participating only a few years ago. 
To be accepted into the program, a student must have a minimum cumula­tive GPA of 2.5 and complete the application process. 
Each program has three components: an internship, regular seminar classes and a research project. Each student is responsible for his or her own internship. 
Such intern­ships may be secured before arrival in Washington, but Professor Patrick Pierce of Saint Mary's Political Science depart­ment encourages all of his students to wait until they arrive. 

There are two reasons for this. A definitive binder sys­tematically lists all of the in­ternships offered in Washington while also includ­ing student eval­uations of each program. Thus, stu­dents can search out the internship which best suits their needs. Also, the students can interview for various internships, something that Professor Pierce believes is most important about the internship process. 
"Essentially, one can interview many employers and this will make you a much more valuable candidate for employment in the future," Pierce said. 
The seminar classes are a chance for students to frequently listen and interact with various speakers and bureaucrats. This, too, is a favorite with Professor Pierce. 
"Because the students do come from all over the nation, it is a diverse group and there are some• pretty lively discus­sions," said Pierce. 
It is this interaction between students, faculty, and politicians that proved quite rewarding for Saint Mary's senior Laura Boeckman. 
Boeckman participated in the program this past Spring semester and had the opportunity to listen to speakers that were members of Congress and political journalists. However, according to Boeckman, the most exciting speaker was Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia. 
Scalia, one of the most controversial 
speakers, stimulated one of the best dis­
cussions that semester. 

"He touched on the topic I was doing 
my research project on and I was able to 
include a quote from him in my paper. 
That was amazing," Boeckman said. 
The final component of the program is 
a comprehensive research project. 
"As a part of the application process, a student must propose an idea for a research project that can only be done in Washington, D. C., justifying why a student must go to Washington and can't just stay in South Bend." Pierce said. 
Each student has an advisor who offers advice on the project and assists and evaluates the student's final prod­uct. 
This project, involving a 30-50 page paper, satisfies the Saint Mary's senior comprehensive requirement. 
Once again, Professor Pierce empha­sizes the importance of interviewing. 
"Many advisors have a requirement of a minimum number of interviews that must be conducted with public officials and whomever is relevant to [the] pro­ject," Pierce said. 
This interaction is something for which Boeckman is also grateful. Wondering if she wanted to go on to law school, Boeckman was able to talk with many lawyers and learn about the busi-

ness and all about its "ups and downs," she said. 
But it isn't just the academic life that makes the Washington program so important, but the city itself. 
"At first I was scared and thought about coming home." said Boeckman. who was intitially uncomfortable in a city as big as Washington, D. C. 
But it did not take her long to realize the many opportunities offered by the capitol city. 
"People in Washington, D. C. are such over-achievers, so ambitious. it just rubs off on you," she said. 
Living there empowered her. She realized that if she could survive in Washington, D. C. on her own. she could survive anywhere. 
"Washington and Washington life are tremendously exciting," said Pierce, "the pace of life and pace of people thinking is so much faster and that is part of what makes it so interesting." 
Through the internship each student experiences the most valuable part of the program by making connections that will help him or her secure future jobs and opportunities. 
Previous coursework as a member of the American University Washington Semester Program is an added plus when applying to MBA programs, Pierce said. 
Boeckman cannot wait to return to Washington, D. C. and now knows she will look for a law school in the Washington, D. C. area. How does she describe her total experience in Washington? 
"It was awesome," she said. 
------------~~--~----------------~ 
Wednesday, November I, 1995 The Observer· SPORTS page 13 
-

• COLLEGE fOOTBALL 

Hurricanes admit to a lack of institutional control 
By STEVEN WINE 
Assm:iatcd Press 
COIV\L GABLES, Fla. 
The University of Miami pub­licly admitted guilt Tuesday on six of I 0 NCAA charges but denied the most damning alle­gation -lack of institutional control. 
School of'lieials will attend a hearing Nov. 10 before the NCAA Committee on Infractions to diseuss institutional control and three other allegations. Sanctions likely will be announced by the end of De­cember. 
"There is a relief," athletic director Paul Dee said, "in that we're finally going to get to the end of this, we hope." 
Probation could include a ban on bowl game and TV appear­ances for one or more years, as well as scholarship reductions. 
At a news conference, the university released a summary of the 10 NCAA charges. Three involve a Pell Grant scandal that prompted a federal investi­gation and led to the conviction of former university academic adviser Tony Russell, who admitted falsifying the Pell Grant applications of 91 stu­dents, including 85 athletes. 

The NCAA, which began its investigation four years ago, alleges a lack of institutional control made the financial fraud possible. 
"That is the allegation that carries with it the most likely heavy penalty," university pres­ident Edward Foote said. "Our position is that there was extensive wrongdoing with the Pell Grants, but it was or­chestrated by one employee who has admitted that he did it and who is long since gone. We know of no other representative of this institution who was involved in any respect. 
"Our position is that is not a Jack of institutional control." 
Russell has said repeatedly he acted without the knowledge of anyone at the university. 
The school also denies rap star Luther Campbell's special treatment of football players constituted an NCAA violation, saying Campbell wasn't affiliat­ed with the school as a booster or season-ticket holder. 
Miami admits violating NCAA rules by failing to follow its own drug-testing policies. The school also acknowledges a play-for-pay scheme involving at least one former football player, inaccurate room and board calculations and exces­sive distribution of books to athletes. 
''I'd be less than honest if I said this was a whole lot of fun sitting here," Foote said. "I'd rather be talking about the library or the physics depart­ment. I am disappointed in a sense that we didn't do a better job in some respects." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
"Alas. poor Yoncki"-He forgot to buy a ticket to the National Shakespeare Company's HAMLET: Wash. Hall. Nov.3. 8 pm Sponsored by SUB. Tickets at LaFun Info Desklff 
Mark's Towmg Roadside Service, Tire Changing. Jumpstarts.Many Services .. We Accept Checks & Charge Student & Senior Discounts 
• 
Damage Free Towing 

• 
24 Hours • Motor Club Servicer PhN(219)271-2382 


Spnng Break Bahamas Party 
Crutsel Early Spectalsl 7 Days 
$2791 Includes 15 Meals & 6 
Parliesl Greal Beaches/Nighllifel 
Prices Increase 11/21 & 12/151 
Spring Break Travel 1-800-678­
6386 
Spring Break! Panama Cilyl Early Specials! 8 Days Oceanvlew Room With Kitchen $1291 Walk To Best Barsl Key Wesl $259! Cocoa Beach Htllon $1691 Prices Increase 11/21 & 12115T1-800-678-6386 
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break Spectalsl 111% Lowest Price Guaranleel 7 Nighls Air From South Bend & Hole! From $4191 Book Early I Save $1 00 On Food/Drinks! Sprtng Break Travel1-800-678­6386 
WEEKLY-MIDWAY TAVERN 
810W4TH MISH. 
MON THE JAZZ FIRM 7:30-9:30 
WED OPEN JAM 9 PM 
THURS IRISH MUSIC 9 
2BLKS S. OF 100 CTR 
255-0458 NEED ID 
WEEKLY MIDWAY TAVERN 
810W4TH MISH. 
MON THE JAZZ FIRM 7:30-9:30 
WED OPEN MIKE/JAM 9:00 
THURS IRISH MUSIC 9 
2BLKS S.OF 100 CTR 
255-0458 NEED ID 
Wanted! I Individuals. Student Organlzallons to Promote SPRING BREAK Earn MONEY and FREE TRIPS CALL INTER-CAMPUS PRO­GRAMS hnp:/lwww.icpt.com 1-800-327-6013 
ILOST & FOUND I 
FOUND: LLBean Grey Fleece Vesl near Slepan Center. Call Dave 0 634-4245 
""'LOST"" 
SMALL GOLD HOOP 
EARRING 
CALL 3709 
.____w,_J\_N_T_E_o_ __.l 
' ' ' FREE TRIPS & CASH ' ' ' Find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH wilh America's #1 Spring Break compa­ny! Sell only 15 trips and !ravel free I Choose Cancun, Bahamas, Mazallan. or Florida I CALL NOWI TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAV­EL (800)95-BREAKI 
MAID by Clay Hi $8-1 0/hr once/wk spolless hones! 277.7263 
TRAVEL ABROAD AND WORK­Make up to $25-45/hr. teaching basic conversational English in Japan. Taiwan, or S. Korea. No teaching background or Asian lal]­guages required. For informalion call: (206)632-1146 ext. J55841 
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT -Studenls Needed! Fishing Industry. Earn up to $3,000-$6.000+ per monlh. Room and Board I Transporalionl Male or Female. No experience necessary. Call (206)545-4155 exiA55842 
Roomale needed for 2nd sem. Male Grad. stu. pref. Nice 2br apt. near campus $280/mo. 277-3107 
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­Seasonal & full-time employment available at Nalional Parks. Forests & Wildlife Preserves. Benefits + bonuses! Call: 1-206-545-4804 ext. N55842 
$35,000/YR. INCOME polential. Reading books. Toll Free 800-898­9778 Ext. R-2013 for details. 
$40,000/YR. INCOME polenlial. Home lyplsts/PC users. Toll Free 800-898-9778 Ext. T-2013 for llst­tngs. 
need roomale 4 2ndsem.call 273­4569montque 
Tickels for MONET exhibit for Nov. 3 or Nov. 5. Please call Brad al634-5118. Negotiable. 
$35.000/YR. INCOME polential. Reading books. Toll Free 1-800­898-9778 Exl. R-2013 for delails. 


FOR RENT 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR ND 232-2595 
THAT PRETTY PLACE. Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for foolball wknds. 5 rooms with pri­vate baths. Located in Middlebury. 30 miles from campus. 1-800-418­9487 
3 BEDROOM HOME 5 MINUTE 
WALK TO ND GOOD AREA 2773097 
ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE HOME FOR 
ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. CALL 272-6194 AM OR 232-9620 PM 
& ASK FOR SANDY. 
Need 1 roommate now &1 more next sem. $195 Turtle Creek 273­
2366 
Two bedroomed apartmenl for rent. 
1.2 miles from Hesburgh Library. Very safe area. Possibilily of keep­ing horse or pel. 631-511 8 or 277­5828. 


1-1_F_O_R_SAL_E_ __. 
ND Ski Team T-Shirtsl •••••••• * ••••••••• 
~ 
. ---.. ------------­Really cool and only $101 Call Poner @ 232-2955 todaylll Great for you, your roomie, or Chrislmas presents! 
HP Laser Jet Series II printer. The Cadillac of printers.277-2560. 
Elecl guilar perfect cond $225 obo amp free 273-5380 
88 Toyota Tercel,68k, air,exl con. $3000 firm. 277-3503 For Sale: Futon (couch/bed) 

'"Perfect for dorm room'" In great condition ill $75 Call Bob at 273-4212 
Room at the St. Mary's Inn. Parent's Weekend Nov.3 and Nov.4 Call Megan x1269 
""""'"2 MONET"""'"'"" '"""'TICKETS for SALE""' no need to wait in the long line with these exclusive "member tickets." Tickets good on any one day. Call soon with an offer, the Chicago Monet exhibition ends November 26th. Gretchen@ 284-5166 
100 Wan Fisher stereo system, Radio Shack Mach 1 speakers call Mary after 5 for details, 272-4137 

TICKETS 
A DEVOTED IRISH FAN NEEDS GA'S TO ANY/ALL HOME/AWAY GAMES. 219-232-0061, 24 HAS. 
TICKET-MART, INC. 
WANTED 
GA'S FOR ANY/ALL 
HOME/AWAY ND GAMES. 
BUY'SELL'TRADE 
(219) 232-0058-24 HAS. 
I NEED TIXS TO ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306 
Me nEad TiKits 
2 Navy 

Call Sean x2153 
NEED NAVY TIXI AMY 616-473-2636 
I need tickets to BC and Navy. Please call Bryan at 272-4249 
Need Navy tix. 282-1638 
Need two Navy Tickets Call Lara at x4416 
Need 1 Navy Ticket for bro PLEASE Call Tim 273-4389 
1 NAVY NEEDED. BRIAN x1716. 
I Need Navy Tickets! II is very Important that I get them! Please call ASAP. Kelly@ 2604 
Need Navy GAs Eric 233-4435 
I HAVE NAVY STUD TIX 4 SALE 1-6696 
S.O.S.! NEED LOTS 0 NAVY TICKETS. KAT X2322 
NEED NAVY TIX FOR BROTHER AND SISTER. KEITH 3482 
NEED 2 NAVY GA'S CALL TAD 273-8629 
HELP I NEED NAVY TIXII X0979 
I need NAVY GAsl Please help me. X3713 
Need 1 Navy Stud. Tik. -Man 273-8709 
I need 3 NAVY tix!l! Please Call Paul x3006 
Nd 2 tickets to Navy game. Call Dan al3549. 
4 CHEAP NAVY GA's Call Anytime 4-0596 Ask for Will or JJ 
1 
HELPIIIII I NEED 2 NAVY TIXIIIII My last home game at NDIIIIII Call Patrick @ 234-3468 
I need NAVY tickels badlyl Please call JOE 273-3981 
2 sets of 2 Navy GA's for sale Call Mark @ x3369 
For sale: 2Navy studtix CAll and Leave offer. Tim x3889 
I NEED GA'S MEGAN X3890 
FOR SALE N.D. GAs call271-9412 
I NEED USC. BC & NAVY GA'S.272-6306 
HELP! Desperately seeking 2 GA's for Navy. Call Sarah@ 273-6875. 
I NEED 2 NAVY TICKETSII Call JILL x2272 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR NAVY! II CALL CHRIS X-1953 
NAVY TIX NEEDED CALL x0733 
NEED 1 NAVY TIC. CALLX3832 
I NEED NAVY Tickets badly. Both GA's and Student... Please leave a message on my machine .... 287-8696 -Bryan 
I NEED NAVY GAsl If you have two, call Kathy at x3572 
Help Melli I need 2 Navy GA's WILL PAY BIG Jen 273-6162 
Please call mei if you have Navy tickets for sale. Pete 215-822-8118. Thanks! 
Need a Navy tickel. Call John 4-1723 
NEED 2 NAVY GA'S WILL PAY GOOD$$$ Jon@ 4-1389 
Wanted: Navy Tlcketsll Rachel634-1675 
I need 2 Navy GAslll Call Mandy at x4092. 
Need 1 ticket for Navy. Call Jay at 1787. 
Need Navy GA's. Call Joe at4-1846. 
HELPI Need 2 Navy GAs. leave message for Pat @ 273-0391 
I have 2 Navy GA's for sale call Scot at x2011 GET 'EM WHILE YOU CAN II 

3 NAVY GA'S FOR SALE 
BEST OFFER. NANCY x2456 
I need 1 navy tickect, GA or student Call Chris. X1741 
PLEASE HELP MEl MY FAMILY'S COMING FROM TEXAS. I NEED 3 NAVY GA's. CALL DAVE AT 0876. 
2 Navy Vietnam Era Vets need tick­ets for NO-Navy. Go lrishlll Call collect 515-842-5750. 

PERSONAL 
Emily Malcoun ­We miss you I Happy Birthday! Love, your SAW family. 
1-80 is damn boringllll-whlch is why I'd like some company when I drive home to Fairfield Counly Connecticut for Xmas .... if you're interested and can drive stick call Dave at 4-1216 or 1-5323. 
""" 4th Day Mass All Saints Day 7:30p.m. Wednesday, Keenan Stanford Chapel...be there"'"'" 
JANUARY BREAK-New CSC ser­vice-learning seminar In Phoenix, AZ. Information session on Wednesday, Nov.1 at 7PM in the 
esc. 

New CSC Seminar in January in Phoenix, AZ. Experiential learning and service oriented. lnformalional meeting in the CSC on Wednesday, Nov. 1 at 7PM. All are welcome. 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 
LaFortune Student Center We're open for your convenlencelll Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight Fri.: 7:30am -7:00pm Sat.: Noon -6:00pm Sun.: Noon -Midnight 
(closed home football Saturdays) 
0o0o0o0a0o0o0o0o0a0o0 
QUALITY COPIES, QUICKLVIII THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
0012Jo0012J012Jo0012Jo0of2lof2jo0 
If you see Jack Elum today, don't forget to wish him a Happy Birthday I 
Anne, I miss you. M.W. 

Calif. actress-writer wife & photog­rapher husband wish to adopt new­born. Will provide love, nurturing environ.• educ., financial securily. Hollywood Hills home has large back yard and loving dog. Call 818/241-5535 collect. Legal & Confidential. 
TRAVEL FREE FOR SPRING BREAK '96 Form a group of 15 and travel FREE + earn $$$ CANCUN, SOUTH PADRE. BAHAMAS. FLORIDA, CARNIVAL CRUISES. Food and Drinks includ­ed. (800)574-7577 ext 302 
" ... and now I have to get a snakeI" "Ok-why is that?" "If I'm going to be alone, I have to have a hook ... you know. like that guy on the subway thai eats his own face. So I'll get a snake. And I'll get more snakes. call them my babies and children will run away from me. 'Run away! Run away from Crazy Snake Manl' That's what they'll shoutl" 
ADOPTION ... INTERESTED IN HEARING MORE?? Warm, professional Indiana couple, lots of experience with children, would love to talk to you about what we can offer your precious child. Stablllly, nurturing, love of learning, travel, lots of extended family, and full-time mom are just some of the things thai your child would experi­ence In our home. lnteresled in hearing more? CALL US (day or night). Expenses paid. Theresa & Lee 1-800-600-8482. 
$5.50 HAIRCUT VITO'S BARBER SHOP 1525 LINCOLNWAY WEST 233-4767 
To THE COOLEST PEOPLE IN 2B SIEGFRIED. UM ...... WORK IT...UM ..... THANKS... BU-BYE. SEE I CAN EVEN GET YOU FROM INDIA! I LOVE YOU AND MISS YOU. XOXO ELLEN 
SMC Senior Class Dinner At Bruno's! Thursday, November 2 
5:00-7:00 PM All the pizza and pop that you can handle $5 tickets on sale In the dining hall during dinner all week. 
Happy b-day to the Perfect Manl I love you, Jason I 
Happy Birthday Emily Malcounll 
Happy Birthday Pluml Love Pates. Dungs. Moose. BB and Lyons. 
I pull you close now baby, but when we kiss I can feel a doubt I remem­ber back when we slarted, my kiss­es used to turn ya inside out I used to drive you to work in the morning, Friday night I'd drive you all around You used to love to drive me wild but lately girl you get your kicks on just a knockin' me down, down. down... 
Don't go into the woods. Don't go into lhe woods. 
Aileen, We're never Ianing you rent another movie again ... 
Top ten quotes of Weasel football 
10. I'm pissed. 
9. Find a happy place. 
8. RRRRrarll 
7. Is this from shotgun? I don't know, Is it? 
6. We are lhe weasels and this Is our cheer... 
5. I turned around and all I thought was, "Balli" 
4. One fun nun 
3. Usually it hurts wicked bad, but this time It felt good. 
2. OOOOOh yeahll 
1. All I could feel was lhe ball on my bun and I thought. "There's just no wayI" 
What should I do? 
I just wanl to see the Archers man 
Have you ever sat around and thought, I must really be crazy. (clean version) 
Meg and Brenda, Here's your classified. 
Wild Staph, You should have gone. 
Boy did you guys make asses of yourselves on Friday nighl. 
r-------------~--­
1

• o ! ! 1 • • > t I'' I f I I I I 
,-,,,,-,,,­

page 14 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, November 1, 1995
-




Alliance for Catholic Education
' 

LIVE IT! BREATHE IT! 
A.C.E. IT! Be ateacher and experience: 
•
Magter-level Teacher Preparation 

•
Community Life 

•
Spiritual Development 







Informational meetin[: 
Thunday, November 2nd 
7:00 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Any Uuegtiong? 
Call Sr. Lourdes Sheehan, R.S.M. or Lon DelFra at 631-7052 





Wednesday, November I, 1995 The Observer· SPORTS page 15 
• .liASEBAll 
Upon his return, Sandberg says the game never left him 
By MIKE NADEL 
Associated PreS> 
CIII<:AGO 

Thn flail of Fame will have to wait. Hyne Sandborg is nmdy to lacn up his spikes, pull on his goldnn glove, range behind sec­ond base and make another gmat play for Llw Chieago Cubs. 
"I was a hasdmll player. I'm still a IHtsPhall player. And I'll always bt~ that," Sandberg, 36. said Tlwsdny af't.m-nndinl{ his I h 1/2-month rntirenwnt by signing a orw-ymtr contract. 
"I did Llw rntin~nrnnt thing. I did tlw stllnnwr artivitit~s and all that. It just got to tlw point wlwrn now it was timn to go hack and play hasPhall. 
"This is sonwthing that I wa11lf'd to do and I rwt~dnd to do. It was Vt~ry important to ron. I don't think it really loft roe." 
But Sandbnrg -statistieally tlw hnst linlding seeond base­man in major leagun history, a I0-tinw Nl. All-Star and the 1984 league MVP -left it. 
In so doing, he walked away from the approximately $17 million he had left on his con­tract. 
When he stunned Chicago with his announcement on June 
13. 1994, his Cubs were in last place. In his opinion. general manager Larry llirnes had ruiiH~d the team. And his per­sonal life was in turmoil; his wife would file for divorce later that month. 
A lifetime .2R9 hitter with 245 career home runs. 905 HBis and 1,050 stolen bases, Sandberg was batting .238 with five homers, 24 HBis and two steals in 57 games and was in a 1-for-28 slump. 
Baseball was no longer fun. So hn retirnd. 
"That was something I had to do," he said. "I couldn't worry about what the public thought." 
Some labeled him a quitter. 
"lie didn't like the front office, he didn't like losing, he didn't like the manager, he 
·· 

didn't like the things in his per­sonal life," said Cubs first base­man Mark Grace, one of Sandberg's closest friends in baseball. 
"It all just came to a head and he had to get out. I under­stand it. Whether I agree with it or not, who is Mark Grace to pass judgment on him? Yeah, we could have used him that year, but nobody could have saved that dub. Ken Griffey Jr. or Barry Bonds couldn't have saved that club." 
The Cubs were 49-64 when the strike ended the season. 
Then, Andy MacPhail was hired away from the Minnesota Twins to run the team. MacPhail replaced Himes with Ed Lynch, who fired Tom Tre­belhorn as manager and hired Jim Higgleman. 
Once play resumed this sea­son, the Cubs got off to a fast start. After an extended slump, they won eight conseeutive late­September games to move into contention for a playoff spot 
and weren't eliminated until the second-to-last day of the season. 
Sandberg, who had happily remarried, returned to Wrigley Field to tape some television commercials and watched the Cubs' late-season charge. 
"I liked what I saw," said Sandberg, whose one-year deal reportedly is worth $2 million. "It was really just after the sea­son ended that it dawned on me that (coming back) was what I wanted to do. The change of attitude and the feel­ing around Wrigley Field was something that I liked. I missed being at>-· Wrigley~Field every day, being part of the team, having fun. That's what I'm going baek for." 
While it has been suggested 
Business Data Services, Inc. (BDS) is a leading client/server systems development firm looking for top quality students to join our team in any of our four office locations in Connecticut, Illinois, New York or Virginia. 
BDS provides a comprehensive training program. We offer the opportunity to work in the latest and most exciting tools and technologies; UNIX, Windows NT, PowerBuilder, Visual Basic, C/C++, TCP/IP, Oracle, Sybase, 
lnformix, etc.  You will be working along side the best technical t~lent in the  
industry.  
If you are self-motivated person, looking for an  
exciting challenge as a Programmer/Analyst and  
graduating with Computer Science, MIS or related  


degrees, Information Session, Nov. 7 at 6:30 p.m. in the Main Lounge, University Club. On-campus interviews will be held on November 10 
BDS 

----~.--­
Business Data Services 
Corporate Address 78 Eastern Boulevard, Glastonbury, CT 06033 

AP Photo 
Ryne Sandberg, shown here greeting a fan after a home run, will once again be playing second base for the Chicago Cubs next season. 
that Sandberg might play third our ability to sign our players." base to save some wear and Chicago fans -still giddy tear ori his body, he said: "The that Michael Jordan came out intent for me signing the con-of retirement to rejoin the Bulls tract and coming back with the last March -already have the Cubs is to play second base. I free agent baseball player they want to play second base." wanted most. 
Lynch, who had the good for­tune to pitch in front of base­Full-season ticket packages ball's best second -baseman in had dwindled from about 1986 and 1987, called it "flat­16,000 in 1994 to 13,000 in tering" that his former team­1995, ticket operations director mate frequently complimented Frank Maloney said Tuesday. the Cubs' new front office. 
"And money wasn't his moti­"But by 10 o'dock this morn­vation for coming back," Lynch ing," he said, "we already had said. Noting that Grace, short­three calls from people who stop Shawon Dunston and had dropped their tickets pitchers Jaime Navarro and because of the strike but now Randy Myers are free agents, wanted to renew them because the GM said: "He had no inten­of Hyne Sandberg. These days, tion of doing anything to hurt heroes are hard to come by." 

page 16 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, November 1, 1995 
• fOOTBALl 

Parcells no longer riding high with pathetic Patriots 
By HOWARD ULMAN 

Associated Press 
FOXBORO, Mass. 
There is a vivid image of a smiling Bill Parcells riding high on the shoulders of his players after winning the Super Bowl with the New York Giants. 

There is a much gloomier pic­ture of the subdued coach at a post-game news conference ­more like a post-mortem ­struggling for still another week to explain why his New England Patriots played so mis­erably. 
"The losing looks like it's wearing him down a little bit, leaving him sort of clueless." running back Dave Meggett said sympathetically. "It looks like he just can't put his finger on what's going on." 
It wasn't supposed to be this way. 
Parcells, a proven winner with two Super Bowl rings, took control of the Patriots in 1993 under new owner Bob Kraft. Stability apparently had come to a franchise that had three owners, three head coaches and a 23-57 record in the pre­vious five years. 
In his first season, Parcells chose quarterback Drew Bledsoe with the top draft pick. In his second, the Patriots won their last seven games and made the playoffs for the first time in eight years. In his third, preseason publications predict­ed the Patriots would at least reach the AFC title game. 
Now they are 2-6 with the NFL's lowest scoring offense, a defense vulnerable to big plays, and a coach, who once had the answers, wondering what to do next. 

Parcells does cite specific problems. But there are so many that he often falls back on generalities, as he did Mon­day after a 20-17 overtime loss to the expansion Carolina Pan­thers. 
"Let's just put it this way," he said in frustration, "we're not playing well right now." 
There are, in fact, plenty of reasons: a weak pass rush and an underachieving passer, inflated expectations and deflated spirits, dropped passes and blown coverages, poor con­centration, nagging injuries, bad punting, questionable play calling and quite a few others. 
Worst of all, there are times when the Patriots don't seem to care. 
Against Carolina, which turned a 3-0 halftime deficit into a 17-3 lead after three quarters. "it didn't really seem like we paid much attention until we were threatened" Parcells said. 
And after a 37-3 humiliation by Denver three weeks earlier, he said, "we've got a couple (of players) that are just mailing it in." 
In the locker room, the fin­ger-pointing has begun. 
Linebacker Vincent Brown admitted his role in the poor run defense against Carolina but also said "field position is killing us," a reference to Pat O'Neill's poor punts. 
Parcells has said he accepts the ultimate responsibility. 
He was criticized for continu­ing to use Bledsoe after the quarterback separated his left shoulder against San Francisco. His choice of free agents who have been disappointing, including ex-Giant Super Bowl winners Meggett and Myron Guyton, has been questionable. 
The Patriots clearly miss four free agents they lost in the off­season -fullback Kevin Turner, strong safety Harlon Barnett, wide receiver Michael Timpson and nose tackle Tim Goad. 
Their departures hurt the team's cohesiveness. Eleven of the 22 starters against Carolina were not regulars last season. 
Goad, a popular, hard-work­ing Patriot for seven seasons, broke his leg last year and was allowed to sign with Cleveland after the season. Parcells want­ed more size on the defensive line and rebuilt it with 300 pounders. 
How has that worked? 
"We got pushed around on defense a great deal," Parcells said after the Carolina game. 
Young outside linebackers Chris Slade and Willie McGinest were expected to provide a strong pass rush but have com­bined for five sacks this year. In the secondary, veterans Maurice Hurst and Guyton have made costly errors. 
The offense isn't much better. 
Bledsoe, the so-called fran­chise quarterback, has three touchdown passes in seven games. Detroit's less heralded Scott Mitchell threw four Sunday. 
Bledsoe has been hampered by his shoulder and slippery­fingered receivers. The Patriots have no deep threats, allowing defenses to focus on tight end Ben Coates, the AFC's leading receiver last year. He's been playing with a bad ankle and. has just 38 catches and no touchdowns compared with 96 catches and seven touchdowns last season. 

The offensive line has done well after Parcells shook it up following the fifth game, and rookie running back Curtis Martin has been impressive. 
Overall, the Patriots have been depressing. 
Parcells underwent heart surgery after leaving the Giants in 1991 and was dehydrated after a loss in Kansas City on Oct. 15. But he has said he feels fme. 
Although his rebuilding pro­gram is crumbling, he said he will follow his routine of decid­ing whether to return next sea­son after this one is over. 
Parcells sees some hope in the fact the Patriots play their next four games against AFC East rivals, starting with a team that may be more incompetent. the 2-7 New York Jets. 
"We still have a small mea­sure of control about what's going to happen," Parcells said. 


McKinsey&Company Opportunities in management consulting for undergraduates of all majors 
THE BUSINESS ANALYSTPROGRAM 


Presentation and reception Thursday, November 2, 1995-7:00 p.m. Joyce Center -Monogram Room 

~--~------------------------------------------------~---------------------------------------------------·~---~---­
Wednesday, November 1, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• BOXING 
Reports continue to worsen in King camp 
Expert testifies to promoter's 
insurance fraud 
By lARRY NEUMEISTER Assucmtrd Press 
NEWYOHK 

A handwriting expert testi­lied Tuesday that a boxer's sig­natum on two copies of a con­truet with promoter Don King wern identical, supporting a government theory that King faked a contract to collect in­surance. 
The testimony came as pros­ecutors in federal court in Manhattan eonsidered whether to rnst after a month of testi­mony meant to prove King eol­lncted $350,000 illegally from l.loyd's of London. The trial will resum11 Thursday. 
King is charged with nine counts of mail fraud in an indictment that alleged he faked a contract with Julio Ce­sar Chavez in 1991 so he could collnet training fees that he hurl never paid to the boxer. If eonvictnd. King could face up to livn years in prison on each count. 
The bout between Chavez and llarold Brazier was ean­t:eled aftt~r Chavez cut his nose. 
On Tuesday. handwriting 
expert Gus Lesnevich testified that the signature of Chavez on one copy of the fight contract was identical to that on a copy that prosecutors allege King faked. 
"A person never signs their name exactly the same more than once," he said. "Actually, if a person sat down and wrote their name live times in a row on a sheet of paper, each one would have a little variation from the one above it." 
"We are not machines. We cannot reproduce things exact­ly the same way," he added. 
Earlier Tuesday, Internal Hevenue Service Agent John Hyan testilied that a review of King's linances in 1991 showed there was no $350,000 cheek written to Chavez for training expenses. 



Hockey 
continued from page 20 
given up Tuesday moved the season total to 32 or 5.33 per conttlst. If Notre Dame is going to compete this season in the CeliA, they will have to cut that number down consider­ably. 
Otherwise, Irish hockey fans may be looking at a mirror image of 1994. 

Tyson's right hand sore before Mathis fight 
By ED SCHUYLER Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS, Nev. 

Mike Tyson's right hand is hurting, but it doesn't seem to be a matter of concern to him or one of encouragement to Buster Mathis Jr. 
"My hand feels well; it's a lit­tle sore. but it's good," Tyson said Tuesday at the final news conference before his sched­uled 12-round heavyweight fight against Mathis on Saturday night in the MGM Grand Garden. 
"I call it a fake," said Mathis. a 20-1 underdog. "I don't think Mike is hurt." 
"What we have to do is follow the doctor's orders." said Jay Bright, Tyson's trainer. lie would not elaborate. 
Marc Hatner, the executive director of the Nevada State Athletic Commission, said Tyson would be examined by Dr. Flip Homansky at the pre­fight physical and official weigh-in Thursday at 2 p.m. PST. 
No special examination is scheduled. "The hand isn't in a cast," Hatner said. "He sparred 
Monday. To the naked eye, he looked line." Tyson appeared relaxed at the news conference. 
"I feel good. I feel happy," said the 29-year-old former undisputed champion, fighting for the second time after a four-year layoff. He was released from prison on March 25 after serving three years on a rape conviction. 
"Everybody knows I'm going to do my thing," Tyson said. ''I'm looking forward to this. I'm going to burn." 
After getting $25 million for his 89-second victory over Peter McNeeley in his first comeback fight on Aug. 19, Tyson will make $10 million for fighting the 25-year-old Mathis on the Fox Network. It will be Tyson's first appearance on commercial television since he knocked out Marvis Frazier in 30 seconds on July 11, 1986. 
The fight is expected to start about 7:40 p.m. PST. The Riddick Bowe-Evander Holy­field match on TVKO pay-per­view outdoors at Caesars Palace, a short cab ride from the MGM Grand. will not start until the Tyson-Mathis bout ends. 
Mathis, who will make $800,000, is a much better boxer than McNeeley, but isn't considered a big puncher (six knockouts on his 20-0 record) and he doesn't appear to be a 
serious obstacle to Tyson. 
Tyson's next fight is expected to be a challenge to Frank Bruno on March 16 at the MGM Grand. Bruno, of Britain, is supposed to arrive in Las Vegas on Thursday and a news con­ference is planned Sunday. 
There will be litigation over a Bruno-Tyson bout. Dan Duva. promoter for former WBC champion Lennox Lewis, and Frank Maloney, the fighter's manager, contend that the WBC mandated that the winner of the Lewis-Lionel Butler fight on May 13, won by Lewis, would get a mandatory chal­lenge to Oliver McCall. When Bruno outpointed McCall on Sept. 1. he inherited McCall's mandatory defense. 
Lewis stopped Bruno in the seventh round in defense of the WBC title on Oct. 1, 1993. Tyson stopped Bruno in the fifth round of an undisputed ti­tle defense on Feb. 25. 1989. 
Bruno reportedly would make about $5 million to light Lewis on HBO, but about $11 million to light Tyson on SET pay-per­view television. 
Bruno is tied promotionally to Don King, Tyson's promoter, but Lewis isn't. 
King was not a Tuesday's news conference because of his wire-fraud trial in New York. He is supposed to Oy to Las Vegas on Friday night. 
DAYTONA BEACH STEAMBOAT 

-----------------" 





Miss SaigoV\ 
November 11 The Auditorium Theatre in Chicago 
Tickets are only $22 at the LaFortune Information Desk. Includes bus to/from Chicago. 
Free time before and after show to enjoy the city! Buses will depart at 4 p.m ... Show begins at 8 p.m. Appropriate attire required (i.e. no jeans) 
Sponsored by the Senior Class of 1996 
Priority availability given to Seniors 

~-­

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, November I, 1995 
mote of an obstacle than a source of inspiration. 
"We've never played well at 

RAL ROLLERBLADE SKATES. .. UNREAL PRICE.


·I 

!UTPOST•




$99.95 •• 
c:=~ 
Mon.-Fri. 'til 6 p.m. 

• SOCCER 
Hope outlasts Saint Mary's in final home match for seniors 
BY NICOLE BORDA 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's soccer team suffered a 4-2 loss as heartbreaking as the weather yesterday in their final home game of the season against Hope College. With one game left to play, the Belles are now 6-10-2. 
In the cold, rain, and fog, the Belles fought their way to a 1-0 lead at the half with a goal from senior Tiffany Raczynski. Shortly into the second half, sophomore Ann Fewell scored again to give Saint Mary's a solid lead which many thought would carry them to certain victory. 
The first half saw junior Jolie Pokorny all over the field. In one battle, Pokorney ended up with the ball, but her opponent ended up face first in a muddy puddle along the sideline. While her opponent was looking to dry off, Pokorny was on her way downfield where the Belles dominated much of the first half action. 
The Belles were at a major disadvantage with only 18 healthy players compared to Hope's 26. This became an important factor when Hope substituted nine fresh legs well into the second half. 
Junior Jody Jennings, who is out for the season with a stress fracture, is one of three players who was forced to watch the game from the sidelines. The others included sophomore Sandra Gass and junior Brigid Keyes. 
"The first three quarters of the game we played really strong," .Jennings said. "but when they substituted nine fresh players and most of our girls had been playing the whole game, it defi­
home in the seniors' last home game," said Holtz. "The play­
Holtz 
ers get caught up in thinking back at their careers here, and
continued from page 20 
the mood tends to get very melancholic.
Irish seniors will play their fi­nal game at Notre Dame Sta­"In the tunnel, the players get dium on Saturday. 
nostalgic and have tears in Holtz is concerned that the 
atmosphere could prove to be 
·c. 
() \ •
(j~­
'~1. ,~:>O',r, 

~­
,..,.,. 
.

-·'-, " I '\' I 
nitely had an impact." 
"The game is all about energy and without speed, who cares if you have skill," junior Shari Matelski agreed. "You have to be able to get to the ball. By the end, we just couldn't keep up." 
From here on it became evident that the Belles just did not have enough left to stay in it. Hope went on to score twice and regulation play ended in a 2-2 tie. The game stretched on into two fifteen minute periods of overtime. Hope succeeded in scoring twice in the latter period of play. 
The Belles certainly showed a tremendous amount of determination yesterday. 
"We played really well but towards the end we had some breakdowns and a few balls got by us," said senior Gwynne Davis. 
Fans and players alike have noticed how this group has come together as a team. The contri­butions of the four seniors have also not gone un­recognized. 
"The seniors have made this team great. It is just so sad that we are finally getting it together so late in the season and this was their last home game. Those four really make the team," said Matelski. 
On Thursday the Belles will be on the road playing their final game of the season against Valparaiso University at 2:00p.m. 
"Last year we went up against Valparaiso with only eleven players and no substitutes because of all the injuries," said Davis. "This year we only have three people out and we have a really great team. I think we have a really good chance of 
beating them." 
~ 

\ ....... 
their eyes while they wait to run out for the last time. With the tears in their eyes, they can't see their blocks once the game starts." 
The seniors hope they will be tears of joy as the clock expires one last time. 

Now you can experience the joy of skating and the euphoria of saving money. Every year at the end of Summer we sell all of our rental skates at a great price. This year's rental skate was the Rollerblade Bravo GL. The skates have been used. Some a lot. Some not as much. For only $99.95 you score a great fitting Rollerblade skate with Advanced Brake Technology (ABT), all buckle closure, ABEC one bearings, and a whole bunch of scratches on the shell which will allow you to make up stories about how you got this scratch while jumping over the dome, and that one from rail sliding through the JACC, and ..... Oh well, you get the picture. Great price. Great procuct. Get "em before they"re gone! 
r.--_:---=------.. 
' ' ~ 
• ~ A • 
i t ~ . 
~.n............~~ • 
EDISON RD. '::t:J • 
3Walsh 

6Lyons [ 
7:00PM
8:00PM 
_____. Cartier field
Cartier field 
4 PE 
2PW 

4 PE 7Badin 
Women's Pairings 
5Lewis 
7Badin 





Stakes 
continued from page 20 
met once in the regular season and the battle ended in a tie. 
"Since we've played them be­fore, we are at an advantage and a disadvantage because we know what their offense is going to run but they know what our offense is going to run," stated Badin captain and nose guard Fran Maloney. 
"We are going to try to stop Shelly Dillenburger," stated Lyons captain and quarter­back, .Julie Byrd. Badin's Shelly Dillenburger is notorious for intercepting opponent's unsuspecting passes. 
"Badin is an excellent team," Byrd revealed. "And we are going to try to stop their execu­tion. because offensively we 
Recycle The Observer 
know they are capable." 
Badin, on the other hand, is focusing on coverage. 
"Basically we want to make sure that their is good and tight coverage on every single Lyons' player," Maloney said. "If we run the plays right, then execution is not going to be a problem. The other key is putting pressure on the quar­terback. The defense is antici­pating holding Lyons to one touchdown, if not less. The of­fense is working on penetrat­ing Lyons' defense." 
Lyons is looking for the defense to continue doing well and for the offense to play and execute consistently, according to Byrd. 
"The game should be a tough game, we know what we have to do to win," Maloney con­cluded. 
NOTRE DAME vs. Western Michigan 
7 p.m. -Joyce 

Wednesday, November I, 1995 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
"PUBLIC FORUM: 
"Ttl!f.>E llhlo fof4ET TRE 
PP.~ ME '\)oo..EI>Ta (1.E.­

WHERE THE 
f\;ll'f h ::..

AVERAGE STUDENT 
""""'I 1/loOU> L1-..E To

GETS IN THEIR TWO 
l).II.E c.T TI\0\E ff.TE fu<. 

BITS." 
\No~T· ~ f>E~tt>T, 
\,lt\0

I 1 I =o."\ Wi.. 
~C.Etn\.'1 oO

~ 1\fwE. (;..j!.U. 
f<.I>.ME.I> li\£ 

(\ \-\ ....,..,,.."\ 
'SP-CJ\U.EI> 

('1\o\.lo'-··. 
"flEfbllt'l 

_/ 
\)Ill.~-·:· 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 



~I !YfL-

Dll.l\ERT 
GUE.55 WHAT, 
.. 
0 
(.)

WALLY. 
® 0 -' 

) WHAT SA.OISTIC PLOT HAS H.R. ~ II) ~~·i=-=-=-=cof-\E. UPWITH ~ 
NOW, CATBERT? § 
I i 
E 
w 
'i'\11\I'"F WIAFF 
rii'F 
Foor 
.... ,
• 

WE'RE GIVING YOU 
A REAL BOSS PLUS A "DOTTED LINE" TO 
ANOTHER BOSS WHO 
liAS DIFFERENT 
OBJTCTLVES. 
) 
1 I I 1 1 I • I 
'o o I I I I' I • 1,,, o 1 '• I •, 

The Observer· TODAY 
page 19 
DAVE KELLEIT 
BILL WATTERSON 

I CANT HELP B\JI WONDER Wl-\r>iT 1'.\Ntl OF DESPERATE. STRAITS WOULD 
DR\\JE />. \'o\11-.N \\) \N\JENT 
scorr ADAMs 

0 
> 
z 
THE STATUS REPORTS 
~ 
ALONE WILL TAKE 
~­
FORT'( HOURS A. WEEK.
! 
II). 
I'f-\ GONNA 
SIAPLE M'<SE.LF

.~ 
II. 
TO DE.ATH. 

.~ 
c 
:::> 
.... 
"' 
"' 
46 Veteran's 53 Arabian port chestful 
54 Contribute 48Argue 
obligingly 49 Twitty's "It's-­
55 CongratulatesMake Believe" 57 Orch. section 

50 Genoa greeting 51 Mister, in Munich 
58 ---Magnon 

52 Columbus's 59 50's campaign home name 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 
JEANE DIXON 
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER I, 1995 
(For your personalized daily Jeane Dixon horoscope, based on your own date of birth, call 1-900-988-7788. Your phone company will bill you 99 
cents a minute.) 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE 
NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: 
Fight for what you want, but do it 
openly. Integrity and dedication will 
pay rich dividends in the years to 
come. A wedding that takes place 
next month will enjoy special bless­
ings. Someone may try to cut into 
your business profits. Welcome a 
chance to travel early in 1996. You 
need to be decisive when' making 
overdue changes. Move with the 
times. Romantic bliss lies directly 
ahead! 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON 
THIS DAY: columnist James J. 
Kilpatrick, author Stephen Crane, 
baseball star Fernando Valenzuela, 
country singer Bill Anderson. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): A 
love relationship is teetering on the 
brink. Do not be afraid to speak out 
or make the first move. A parent-
child dialogue becomes more 
rewarding. Gear up for a big push at work. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
Although a cash tlow situation is 
better now, continue to curb extrav­
agance. Approaching routine work 
assignments with greater creativity 
wins you praise. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 
Develop a plan to expand your cir­
cle of business contacts. Joining a 
professional group or social club 
introduces you to potential clients or 
customers. Profits rise thanks to a 
partnership. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Someone could be in a difficult mood. Refuse to be provoked into quarreling. Accept an offer of help with grace and dignity. An unel(­peeled development inspires you to try something new. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Use wit and wisdom when playing the money game. Set aside funds for legal advice if you have concerns about a tax or accounting matter. Investing in high-quality equipment helps guarantee reliable perfor­
mance. VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Pay attention to those seemingly small details that can spell the difference between success and failure. Catch­ing and correcting a mistake right away will save both time and money. LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Learning more about computers will hasten your career progress. An encouraging message will put a smile on your face! Partnerships formed today should prove highly successful. SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): A pet project gets the green light from someone influential. A timely phone call moves you closer to realizing a dream. Your organizational skills are a tremendous asset. SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Decisive action is the key to moving forward. Sitting on the fence is for the birds! Launch an exciting venture with confidence. Invest in quality when shopping for clothes. Classic styles will work best. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): The emphasis today is on mak­ing a good impression. Withhold 
comment until you can research a situation thoroughly. Your excellent reasoning skills help you uncover facts that others have overlooked. Keep your own counsel in romance. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): A give-and-take attitude will win you friends. An intelligent compro­mise helps you negotiate an impor­tant contract. A move to another location is possible. Try a different approach to romance. Act quietly confident. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A good day to buy or sell items of beauty. Stick to a sensible diet-exer­cise regimen; the results will delight you! Wear a happy face if going out tonight. Your mate is ready to con­
fide secrets . 
61 Kafka novel. with "The" 
62 County bordering London 
63 Distant past 64 Crosses 65 Purposes 
DOWN 
1 Singer born in Nigeria 2 "Cotton Candy" trumpeter 3 Gen. Rob!.-­4Naked-­jaybird 5 Nicklaus rival a Expert 7Thosefor 8 "Forrest Gump" locale 
12 Horace title 13 Your Majesty 18 "Cheers" 
bartender 19 Pennsylvania 
port 23 Stiffly neat 24 Ham go-with 25 Computer listing 26 Dik Browne 
cartoon character 27 Ecole attender 

•MENU 

Notre Dame 
North South 

Home-Style Chicken Sandwich Fettuccine Alfrt:~do 
Turbot Almondine Grilled Pork Chops 
Kluski Noodles Fried Okra 
Saint Mary's 
Roast Turkey Breast Old Fashioned Beef Stew Corn Bread Dressing 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
ACROSS 
1 Queens stadium 5 Garth's TV/movie buddy 
10 Causes of personality clashes 
14ls sick 15 "Have I got-­
foryou!" 16 South of France 11 IT'S A BIRD 20 16-Across 
vacation time 21 Symbols of 
Egyptian r6yalty 22 Piece-maker? 23 Ruse 241nlove 26 West Bank city 29 Climbing plant 33 Completely 
pooped 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
34 Neat as-· 35 Retirement age 
in old Rome? 36 IT'S A PLANE 40 Actress Gardner 41 Summer 
desserts 42Gourmand 43 Orthodontic 
device 46 Holiday Inns 47 Having no width 
or depth 48 Enlivens. with 
"up" 49 Paint pigment 52 Word in many 
antique shop names 53 Jungfrau, e.g. 56 IT'S SUPERMAN 60 lord Byron hero 
.... 
• 
28Swell up 29 Peeping Tom 30 Catcher's locale 31 Hyundai model 32 Declares 34Bowed 37 Food stabber 38 Unlock again 39 Dieters' 
concerns 44 Arteries 45 Don Juan's 
mother 
.,

Q: Why do you drink? 
A: I drink because it loosens me up, and I'm more outgoing. 
TRY BEING YOURSELF. You (AND OTHERS) MIGHT ACTUALLY LIKE IT! Sponsored by The Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 


1,, I I I I o I / • I 1 / j I' 
• I •• ' I I.' I I I. I I I I I.' 




SPORTS 

page 20 Wednesday, November 1, 1995 
Holtz braces for return to sidelines 
After eight weeks, Irish coach rids himself of neck constraint 
By MIKE DAY Sports Writer 


.. 
The neck brace is gone. Out of mind. Out of sight. 
Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz will be back on the sidelines at full strength for Saturday's matchup against Navy. The neck brace, on the other hand, will be auc­tioned off some time this weekend, and bids have reportedly reached $1000. 
"I can't believe'anyone would be willing to buy the neck brace for $1000 without my neck in it," said Holtz at his weekly press conference on Tuesday . 
While Holtz leads the team out of the tunnel at Notre Dame Stadium for the first time since Northwestern, the team that follows him will also be healthy after being bothered by the injury bug all season. 
"The injury situation is the best it's been this season," said Holtz. "As of now, Randy Kinder (bruised quadri­cep) is the only one not at full speed. We expect him to be ready by Saturday, but we'll have to wait and see." 
"The players are in a good mood and have a good frame of mind. Even when we won earlier in the sea­son, they didn't seem to have the same sense of confi­dence that they have now." 
In his usual "take nothing for granted" manner, Holtz spoke briefly about how much he feared the Navy wish­bone offense and an improving Midshipmen defense that gives up just 18 points a game. 
"We always have trouble with the wishbone as the game against Army showed," said Holtz. "They are smaller but possibly quicker than Army. They have a strong passing game along with the triple threat option, and that will present problems for us on defense. 
"On defense, they give you so many different looks that it's hard to fall into a rhythm. If we can't fall into a rhythm, then we have trouble for the entire game." 
The Observer/ Mike Ruma see HOLTZ I page 18 The Observer/Brent Tadsen 
Lou Holtz returns to the field without his brace Saturday... ...after spending the last eight weeks with the brace on. 


Stakes high with 
Irish mirror last year in 6-2 loss 


stadium on the line 
By MIKE DAY Sports Writer 
A mirror image of 1994. 
Through the first six games of the season, the Notre Dame hockey team, eager to turnaround a struggling program, has looked strikingly similar to last year's squad that finished the season 11­25-1. The trend continued Tuesday night as the Irish fell to Michigan State 6-2 at Munn Ice Arena to drop their record to 1-5. 
Notorious slow starters, the Irish were up to their old tricks against the Spartans Tuesday evening. The Michigan State squad, who im­proved their record to 4-3 on the year with the victory. held Notre Dame scoreless for the first 39 minutes of the contest. 
At the same time, the Irish were unable to con­tain the explosive Spartans, who bolted to a 3-0 lead before Notre Dame team could recover from the bus ride. Mike Watt and Brian Crane scored early first period goals, while teammate Mike York added the third score just 39 seconds into the second period. 
With 59 seconds remaining in the second peri­od, the Irish finally got into the scoring column when junior center Terry Lorenz slapped the puck past MSU goaltender Chad Alban for his second goal of the season. After being shutout in the first four games, the talented forward has recorded a goal in each of his last two games. 

'I "He has been all over the ice for us this year, but he hasn't scored as much as I'm sure he'd like," said head coach Dave Poulin earlier in the week. "He works real hard day in and day out, so the goals will eventually come." 

KATHLEEN LOPEZ 
Sports Writer 
The stakes are higher and the winners of today's games will face-off in the stadium for the Women's lnterhall Championship. Badin takes on Lyons and Pangborn is set to meet Pasquerilla East today at Cartier Field in the Interhall semifinals. 
T h e Pasquerilla East Pyros have one thing on their mind, and it is upset.Pyros' defensive back, Laura Miklavcic stated, "If we play together as 
Courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 

a team, stay focused. and keep
Junior Brian McCarthy scored a goal in the Irish's 
doing what we have been do­
6-2 defeat. 
ing, then Pangborn should not 
The Irish reverted to their 1994 form in the 
be a problem."
early part of the third period. After holding the 
The Phoxes and the Pyros
Spartans scoreless for nearly 25 minutes, Notre 
have not met in the regular
Dame relinquished a 
pair of goals midway 

season, and both teams are 
see HOCKEY/ page 17 

looking forward to their first meeting. 
"We are ready for this game, and we have been looking for­ward to it," stated Pyros' run­ning back Christy Oleniczak. "We have been practicing hard." 
The Phoxes are not looking for a specific player to lead the team to victory and they have been con­tinuing their regu­lar prac­
t i c e s 
because it is the first time they 
h a v e 
played PE. 
Pangborn thinks that the key to a victory is to "stay confi~ dent and 

keep up the intensity,'' ac­cording to Phoxes' captain Tr­ish Sorensen. 
Badin and Lyons both enter their semifinal game with a record of 4-2-1. The teams 
see STAKES / page 18 



Football 
vs. Navy, November 4, 1:30 p.m. EST 

Volleyball 
vs. Saint John's, November 3, 8 p.m. 
vs. Connecticut, November 5, 8 p.m. 

Men's Soccer 
vs. Villanova, November 3, 7:30 p.m. at Wisconsin, November 5, I p.m. 

Cross Country 

• Belles' soccer drops final home game
District Meet, November II 
see page 18 

SMC Sports 
• Sandberg announces return Soccer at Valparaiso, November 2 Volleyball at Anderson University, see page 15 November I 
• Miami pleads guilty to NCAA charges 
see page 13 








