
Thursday, August 31, 1995 • Vol. XXVII No. 9 j N EPENDENT' NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND A r, ' 
esc receives money from AmeriCorps 
By MATT SNYDER 
News Writer 
The University of Notre Dame has once again been recognized as a leader among universities for its innovative service pro­grams run by the Center for Social Concerns. 
T h e Federal Commission on National 
. Community l, .• Service, also Royer known as AmeriCorps, has granted $126,000 to the Indiana Campus Compact to establish a system of partnership pro­grams at universities across Indiana. The Compact is a statewide consortium of schools committed to promoting volun­teer service formed by the presidents of six Indiana schools: The University of Notre Dame, Indiana Univer­sity, Depaw University, Val­paraiso University, Earlham 
• see Nat'! Service, page 7 
College, and Butler University. 
The partnerships link the uni­versities with selected service organizations in their area in order to increase student in­volvement. 
The new programs will model tlie partnership run by the Cen­ter for Social Concerns here on campus. The aim is to make volunteering more effective for students by hiring paid coordi­nators to work as mediators between the University and a service organization. 
The coordinators will super­vise placement and implemen­tation of student volunteers so the students do not get lost in the shuffie. 
The Notre Dame partnership began three years ago as a pilot program under the Indiana Consortium when it was grant­ed money to form a partnership with the Center for the Homeless in South Bend. 
The program's success mer­ited three new partnerships funded by local grants. The University added partnerships with La Casa de Amistad, the Logan Center, and the Northeast Neighborhood Association. 
The new grant will be dis­tributed to eight schools to set up partnerships modeled after the one at Notre Dame. Notre Dame will be providing training for the new programs, which may be at Indiana University, Earlham College, Butler Uni­versity, Depaw University, Val­paraiso University, Ball State, and Purdue University. 
While the other schools will be establishing programs, Notre Dame's Center for Soeial Coneerns will use its portion of the grant to add a new part­nership with the Chapin Street Clinic in South Bend. The clinic is dedicated to providing health care to those without insur­ance. 
Although many students al­ready work at the clinic, the Di­rector of the CSC Kathleen Royer believes the new part­nership will bring another di­
see CSC I page 4 

Dame."haps the most positive aspect of Notre Dame should not have an 

'Life Choices' created by Golden Dome Productions 
by DEREK BETCHER 
News Writer 
Golden Dome Productions' latest creation. "Today's Life Choices," is set to begin its new season this weekend. Entering its seventh year, "Today's Life Choices" is a television series of thirty-minute documentaries that will air in over sixty PBS markets. The show will reach an additional 23 million house­holds through VISN, cable's Faith and Values Channel. 
. With guests including Nelson Mandela, Phil Donahue, and Diek Vitale, the show's produc­tion stuff feels that this year's produet is their most ambitious yet. 
"After seven years in the in­dustry, we've really gained credibility within the PBS world." eonfirmed Assistant Producer Mike Sehmiedeler. 
GOP's reputation was given a nationwide boost when Corpo­ration Public Broadcasting's Adult Education Department gave its endorsement to "Today's Life Choices." 
The direction and focus of "Today's Life Choices" is guided by its executive committee which is chaired by Father Richard Warner, head of Cam­pus Ministry. Other members 

'Today's Life Choice~" senior producer Mike Doyle and videographer Randy Armstrong walk with Nelson 
forum of world leaders, it examines world issues such as poverty and ethnic integration. The following "American Ath­letes" series discusses athletes' duties as role models as well as the commercialization of to­day's professional and amateur athletics. 
Next , TLC examines the his­tory and purpose of Congress, attempting to show a glimpse of life within Capitol Hill. The tinal series reviews television and radio talk shows and the effects that these programs have upon their listeners. 
Although South Bend is far from being a national media center, Golden Dome Produc­tions has made TLC a polished product with the feel and qual­ity of "Dateline NBC" meets "Ken Burns' Baseball". 
TLC's pertinence is found in its role as a representative of University expenditure deci­sions. Notre Dame owns GOP and provides complete funding for the TLC series. These fi­nancial ties benelit Notre Dame by helping the University to fur­ther its academic mission. 
"We're not a mouthpiece for the University, but we do pre­sent ethical arguments in our 
see TLC I page 4 
Mandela before a tapmg of the show. 
of the nine person panel range from English and philosophy professors to WNDU station personnel. 
The actual production work is headed by Mike Doyle and Mike 


Smyth joins Irish Studies 
by MARY KATE MORTON 
Associate News Editor 
As the Notre Dame family gears up for the first football game of the year, hanging ban­ners that scream "GO IRISH," one of the newest members of the ND community is acclimat­ing himself to the environment and looking at the Irish para­phernalia in a different light. 
Notre Dame recently ap­pointed Professor James Smyth the Irish Historian for the un­dergraduate history depart­ment. 
A native of Belfast, Northern Ireland, Smyth has been in the United States for Jess than two weeks. Already, he has thrown himself into his work, teaching both Irish History I and British History: 1660 to the Present. 
Professor Smyth brings ten years of lecturing experience to Notre Dame at Christ Church and Cambridge University in England, where he received his Ph.D in History. 
Prior to lecturing, he com­pleted his undergraduate work, including extensive research in Irish History, at Trinity College Dublin, Ireland. 
Though he has only been here a short while, Smyth noticed marked differences be­tween schooling in the British Isles and United States imme­diately. 
"It seems to me that there is a closer supervision and interaction here than most of my experiences at Trinity and Cambridge. 
I'm struck by the con­seientiousness of the students. But as I say, I'm learning my­self." stated Smyth. 
For someone who loves to teach as much as Smyth, per­
Schmiedeler. 
"Today's Life Choices" is di­vided into live different series of episodes this year. 
The first deals with violence that impacts today's youth, and this position is the opportunity for him to impart to his stu­dents first hand knowledge of Irish history and culture, from the perspective of a native. 

In the past, he has dealt mainly with British and Irish students, who have their own set of assumptions about Irish history. His daunting task is to break through the stereotypes Americans have of a romantic tale of Irish history. 
"This is a completely new set of students with a completely new set of assumptions. . . but my experience with Irish­Americans is that they're very informed and their opinions are more rationally based than many Irish may think," said Smyth. 
In his short time on campus, the demand for the Irish His­tory classes has surprised Smyth, in relation to the few classes offered in Irish Studies. 
"Often, what you consider important is not the same as everyone else. I believe Ireland is important. Louis MacNiece said in a poem ,'he resented the presumption of the Irish that everyone cared who was king of their castle.' 
When you go to a new univer­sity, particularly an interna­tional institution like Notre Dame, it is refreshing to find students who do care who the king of that castle is," Smyth said. 
To complement the interest in Irish history at Notre Dame, one of his goals is to broaden the scope of the Irish Studies program to help it excel. 
He plans to do this by target­ing the library holdings of Irish 
history  and  culture  for  
improvement.  
"There is  no reason  why  

later examines challenges and stereotypes facing Generation X. 
The second grouping of episodes was taped at a UN summit in Denmark. Using a 

Katie Kroenarffha Observer 
James Smyth has recently joined the University to help improve its Irish Studies pro­gram. 
outstanding collection and should not have the best collec­tion of Irish holdings in the country. I hope to help make what is already a very good li­brary a great library," stated Smyth. 
Professor Smyth brings a new energy and world view to Irish Studies at Notre Dame. 
According to his prophecies, "there is a new sense of aware­ness within Irish-America for Irish politics, history and cul­ture that will be able to use a top-flight Irish Studies Pro­gram. I'm very hopeful for that future of Irish Studies in Amer­ica and especially at Notre 

............... 

r 
r 
~ 
~ 
r 
r 
page2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

I'm a townie 
and I'm 
proud! 
Upon entering college, we became schooled in the fme art of party etiquette. For most stu­dents, the getting-to-know-you process is a 
painless part of the social. .;...._______ life. But I live in constant fear of these encounters. "Why," you say? My phobia of mindless party chatter has to do with one question. It is generally stuck some­where in between "So what's your name?" and "What's your major?" You guessed it. "So Angie, where are you from?" When someone asks me where I am from, I have a standard procedure to follow. I first answer Indiana, and smile bravely through the inevitable cruelty. Yes, I am a Hoosier. Yes, I eat corn quite frequently. No, last time I checked my Dad did have all of his teeth. Occasionally I will make an attempt to stick up for my state, by pointing out some of of our homegrown fmest, for example, John Mellencamp, Dan Quayle and every single mem­ber of the Jackson Five (not to mention Janet and LaToya). But, surprisingly enough, this fails to impress most people and they want more details. · "What part of Indiana are you from, Angie?" At this point I try to play it cool and reply, "The northern part." Well, this vague answer fools virtually no one. Usually it only succeeds in arousing suspicion and my partner in conversa­tion stares hard and asks, "Exactly where in northern Indiana?" This is my cue to bolt. I head for the bathroom, the Toll Road, any­where. I am trapped. I break out in a sweat, take a deep breath, and whisper, "Urn, South Bend." That's right. I am from South Bend. I am a local, a townie, a Bender, and you know what else? I am fed up. Why should I slink around in shame, dodging questions about where I am from? Before people know the roots of my origin, they make sly cracks to me about the local at the counter. Let me clue you in on something. I am that local at the counter. I am the townie standing next to you. I have lived here my entire twenty years on this earth, and, regard­less of where I end up, South Bend is the back­drop for all my memories. In the words of Springsteen, "This is my hometown." The way I speak, the way I think, the way I view the world all stem from the experiences I have had. · My simple message to you is this: Ease up a little. South Bend is awfully proud of the Notre Dame al!d Saint Mary's communities. Those Benders you snicker at are a part of the town thai houses the tradition. Besides, they are the ones who have to drive 87 miles out of their way on football Saturdays to avoid the mass of Winnebagos and tipsy tailgaters. So, cut us some slack. South Bend will be here long after you are gone, and I would venture to say that you might even shed a tear as an alum when you see "the Waver." Twenty years from now, in the middle of the night, you'll have a longing for some lake-effect snow. You'll drive days to shop at UP Mall. When all of this occurs, you might stop for a moment and think of my column. Remember August 31, 1995 as the day when Angie Kelver predicted that someday you will realize you have all become Benders at heart. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

• TmlAY's STAFF 

News Corrine Doran Viewpoint Ethan Hayward Meghan Smith Heather Cocks Production 
Sports Heather Dominique Thomas Schlidt Thomas Schlidt Graphics Lab Tech Brian Blank Scott Mendenhall 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, August 31, 1995 
• WORlD AT A GLANCE 
Bloodied Shevardnadze vows to fight for presidency 
TBILISI,Georgia Blast destroys a car in A day after narrowly escaping Shevardnadze's death in a car bomb attack, motorcade and three
other cars nearby
Georgian leader Eduard .........--=--,.,.,.,. Shevardnadze told a rally he will run for the country's new presiden­cy. Shevardnadze, his face showing cuts from the attack, made his 
announcement to a crowd in [::=~~~~~~)fT~7~~~~~will be now," said Zurab Beridze,
Republic Square, a few hundred RUSSIA 42, who moonlights as a driver to yards from the parliament building, supplement his meager state at-where the car bomb went off. torney's salary. Riot police ringed Shevardnadze, best known for the square's perimeter while helping to carry out Mikhail Shevardnadze's bodyguards, Gorbachev's perestroika reforms, sweating in flak jackets under a has been trying to restore stability hot sun, talked nervously over to this former Soviet republic torn . . ... .. ... ..... walkie-talkies. apart by rising crime and a sepa-source: New York Public Lib~ary AP The blast Tuesday went off 
ratist rebellion. 
"There was an attempt to kill the head of state ... God saved not only me but also the country," declared Shevardnadze, a former communist who converted to Orthodox Christianity soon after becoming independent Georgia's leader in 1992. "I have decided finally to put myself forward for presidential elections in Georgia in November," he told the crowd of about 4,000. The bomb-
New College tops value survey again 
NEW YORK 
New College of the University of South Florida, a tiny liberal arts school in Sarasota, again beat the likes of Harvard and Yale in a ranking of best college value. For the third year running, New College topped Money maga­zine's list of the top 100 college buys Wednesday. In com­piling its list, Money used a formula that considered 16 measures of educational quality, such as college entrance exam scores, ratio of students to tenured faculty, and four-year graduation rates. These were compared against tuition and fees. Tuition at New College for out­of-state freshmen this year is $7,950 while Floridians pay $2,066. New College has an attractive bayside campus and 560 students. Rice University in Texas was No. 2. Like New College, Rice held its ranking for a third straight year. Northeast Missouri State University ranked third, followed by New Jersey's Trenton State College and the California Institute of Technology. 
Burned pasta provokes butchering 
BOSTON 
An insurance executive was charged with tearing out his wife's heart and lungs and impaling them on a stake in a fight about overcooked ziti. Richard Rosenthal, his 4­month-old daughter with him in his car, was arrested Tuesday and charged with murder after he followed a couple home and tried to engage them in a driveway conversation about gun control, police said. The couple called police, who found the baby in the back seat of Rosenthal's car, along with a plastic bag full of bloody men's clothing, Middlesex County prosecutor Martin Mur­phy said. Police followed a trail of blood from Rosenthal's stately suburban Boston house to the woods and found the beaten, mutilated body of his wife, Laura Rosenthal. Mrs. Rosenthal, 34, had been slit with a butcher knife from her throat to her navel, and her organs had been placed on an 18-inch stake in a nearby garden. Her face also had been pummeled with a softball-size rock, leav­ing her so disfigured that she was listed as "Jane Doe" on Rosenthal's arrest report. It took more than a day to identify her. Investigators said Rosenthal, 40, told them his wife had chided him for burning the ziti. "I had an argument.... I overcooked the ziti," they quoted Rosenthal as saying. 
• INDIANA WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
Thursday, Aug. 31 
Accu-Weather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
ILL. 
• 


If L 

COLD WARM Pressu 
HIGH LCM 

• 
Atlanta 89 BaHimore 91 Boston 81 Chicago 92
.. '''' 

Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
Columbus 90 

01995 AccuWeather, Inc. 
shortly before Shevardnadze was to have attended the signing of Georgia's new constitu­tion, which creates a presidency more powerful than the positions he now holds: head of state and chairman of parliament. In what was his first election speech, Shevardnadze praised the constitution and promised that Georgia's 5.6 million poople "will live better tomorrow than they live today." 
Dole prepares to go on offensive 
WASHINGTON 

Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole will try to ftrm up conservative support for his presidential bid next week by attacking proposed standards for teaching U.S. history and laying out his ideas on tax simplification, a campaign official said Wednesday. Hoping to pre­vent erosion of his front-runner status among Republican presidential hope­fuls, Dole also is considering a propos-Dole al to require a 60 percent vote of Congress to raise income tax rates, said the official, speaking on condition of anonymity. In what his cam­paign sees as a major economic speech, Dole will address the Economic Club of Chicago on Wednesday to outline his principles for simplifying taxes. With that and an Indianapolis speech on Monday, Dole is seeking to assert himself at a time when Congress is returning from sum­mer recess and people may start paying more attention to the presidential campaign. 

Government investigates 'Roundup' 
WASHINGTON 

The government is questioning at least 50,000 employ­ees to find out if they attended annual "Good 01' Boy Roundups," described by some as racist gatherings that included past and present federal workers. A union rep­resenting several thousand of those workers -primarily from law enforcement agencies in the Justice and Trea­sury departments -today objected to the government's · "dragnet approach" and said it will take legal action if any employee's reputation or job is harmed. Most of the 5,000 U.S. Customs inspectors in the union already have been questioned by their supervisors about the roundups, according to the union's deputy counsel, Elaine Kaplan. She said such probing could be a violation of a person's First Amendment rights to free assembly and is an inva­sion of privacy. A Treasury official this morning con­firmed the mass questioning, saying it was necessary as part of the "fact-fmding" portion of the probe. 
ing, for which no one has claimed responsibility, has threatened the 
relative stability that Shevardnadze brought to Georgia in the last few months. But it also has given him enormous political capital, and he has no real rivals for the Nov. 5 elections. 
"He was not so popular but he 

72  Dallas  97  77  
71  Denver  91  64  
61  Los Angeles 85  67  
74  Miami  90  80  
67  Minneapolis 90  73  

New Orteans 95  73  
New Vorl<  85  68  
Philadelphia 90  71  
Phoenix  107  85  
St. Louis  96  76  

-----~ 

Thursday, Augu~~ 31, 1995 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

SMC career center opens for seniors 
By PATTI CARSON Saint Mazy's Editor 
Seniors and juniors alike are coming to the realization that the job search begins now. Since large companies are not storming college campuses to nlcruit like they used to, it is time for students to lake mat­ters in to their own hands, ac­cording to Claude Henshaw, Professor of Business Adminis­tration and Economics. But the Counseling and Career Devel­opment Center (CCDC) at Saint Mary's is there to help. 
Last night marked Senior J\ickoff Night at the CCDC. The staiT reviewed Saint Mary's and Notre Dame registration and campus interview procedures, the importance of internships and networking, and resume building with the seniors at­tending. 
"We wanted to introduce se­niors to what they have to focus on this year, especially how to register with our office," Christine Derwent, career counselor and coordina­tor of Placement Services, said. 
"Before students can partici­pate in on-campus interviews, they must register at the of­lice." she added. 
But she made note of the fact 
that many large companies do 
not have the finances to recruit 
as before; students must be as­
sertive and go after jobs. 
Tho CCDC conducts resume 
workshops, computerized re­sume workshops, resume re­views, and interview work­shops to aid students, especial­ly seniors and juniors, in their job searches. Schedules of these events are available at the center located in LeMans Hall. 
The workshops focus on re­sume enhancement, highlight­ing the inclusion of computer skills, internships, volunteer­ing, and holding any type of leadership positions, Derwent said. According to him. a re­cent study by Michigan State University. "Business, Indus­tries, and Governmental Agen­cies Employing New Gradu­ates," indicates that 58 percent of new hires in 1993-'94 had career-related pre-professional experience. 
Renshaw also stresses the importance of formulating con­tacts early on and maintaining family, teacher. and job con­tacts throughout the college years. 
"Students should start con­
centrating on formulating a re­
sume as early as the first 
semester of the junior year," 
Derwent said. (There will also 
be a Junior Career Kickoff 
Night on Sept. 13 at 5 p.m. in 
Little Theater.) 
The Alumnae Resource 
Network is also available as an 
information source. 
In addition to the career 
placement assistance, the cen­
ter also offers counseling and 
academic success workshops. 


Katie Kroener/The Observer 
Picnic 

Badin Hall residents enjoy their back-to-school picnic in front of the dorm. 
Senate considers 24-hour space 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE 
Assistant News Editor 
The Student Senate is up and running again after having pre­viewed the year's agenda at its first meeting last night. 
Following a welcome back greeting by Student Body Pres­ident Jonathan Patrick, Dillon sophomore Bill Walsh, a man­ager of The Shirt '95 sales, gave a report. 
This year The Shirt organiz­ers contracted with Champion sportswear, Walsh told the Senate. Sales of The Shirt have exceeded those of previous year's, according to Walsh. 
Seth Miller, South Quad sena­tor, and Kate McShane, Mod Quad senator. told the Senate that they are currently working to increase the number of study and 24-hour space on campus. 
"Some rooms are being re­served for use by three people when eight, ten or 12 people could be using them. Some of these rooms are not being used to their fullest potential," Mc­Shane said. 
Judicial Council President Tom Matzzie told the Senate that students wanting assis­tance with their Office of Resi­dence Life hearings should contact the Judicial Council for advice from trained and experi­enced students. In an effort to "increase the visibility of this resource," Matzzie said that, while the Council cannot repre­sent students, it is available to answer questions about the administration's disciplinary process. 
Other senator reports in­cluded an announcement by Katie Lawler, Student Union Board manager, that the open house in LaFortune Student Center tonight from 6 p.m. until 10 p.m. will offer free food, video karaoke, tarot card read­ings. and free pool in the Gorch Game Room. 
Hall Presidents Council Rep­resentative Tim Kerr an­nounced that the Dillon pep rally is at 7 p.m. tonight. The band Elsie's Promise will play prior to the pep rally at 6 p.m. 

Trustees elect four new members, two named for life 
By DAVE PREISSLER 
News Writer 
During the scorching summer in tho greater South Bend area, while the soon to be famous College Hall of Fame was being completed, the Fellows of Notre Dame were busy making their final decisions on who to elect to the Board of Trustees. Four new members. Jose Enrique Fernandez, Douglas Tong Hsu, William Reilly. and Phyllis Stone, were elected to the Board, while two presiding members, John Caron and J.M. Haggar Jr., were promoted to life members. 
The two current members made life members both gradu­ated from Notre Dame in 1945. John Caron has been on the board for almost 25 years. He recently retired as president of Caron International, a textile manufacturing firm. J.M. Hag-gar Jr. was elected into office in 1990 and recently retired as chairman of the Haggar Ap­parel Co. 

The most recent graduate of the University, Phyllis Stone, is very familiar with the University's administration. After graduating in 1980, she joined the undergraduate admissions office and worked there for five years. 
Following her leave of ab­sence from Notre Dame to work 




Cl.fill of 1998 

7 TO 10PM TO"IG"T FOrt. FOOD. G fl GOOD TIME 
CONCERNS? STOP BY AND SAY HI. OFFICE HOURS: 
Monday &Thursday, 2-4pm 
IDEAS? EMAIL US AT: 


Class.of.1998@nd.edu 
for Merck and Company. where she remains employed, she served on the College of Busi­ness Administration advisory council for the past six years. 
"I love Notre Dame and have gained a great deal from the in­stitution," she said. "It has been an integral part of my life." 
William Reilly. class of '59, became a first lieutenant with the U.S. Army Airborne after graduation. In 1989 he found­ed K-Ill Communications, which publishes Seventeen and New York magazines, and he has served on the College of Arts and Letters advisory council for six years. 
The other two elected trustees both graduated from 
Notre Dame in 1965 and worked with the College of Business Administration adviso­ry council. 
Douglas Tong Hsu, a native of Shanghai, proved his abilities while he was director of the Yuan-Ze Institute of Technol­ogy. He is known for playing a significant role in the estab­lishment of an agreement between Notre Dame's College of Business Administration and the Yuan-Ze Institute of Technology. 
Jose Enrique Fernandez, from Puerto Rico, earned his reputation serving as a member of the governor's Economic Advisory Council and as a board member of Sacred Heart University in Puerto Rico. 
JUST ONE MORE REASON TO COME TO 



6TEAK 


On Notre Dame home football game weekends: 

OUTDOOR PAVILION 
Enjoy refreshments and watch other games on the BIG SCREEN TV while you wait for your table in our lighted pavilion. 
Pavillion Hours: 3:00p.m. to midnight on Fri. and Sat. 
Steak &Ale Restaurant 
2554 US 31 North* South Bend, IN 46637* 219/277-3766 page4 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, August 31, 1995 
Wife suspected in poisoning esc TLC 
Associated Press 
BANGKOK, Thailand 
Doctors suspect a 60-year-old prince was poisoned, and suspi­cion has focused on his young wife and her lover, a 19-year­old chestnut vendor. 
Royalty in Thailand usually are surrounded by mystery and treated with reverence, but Thai newspapers have relished the developing palace intrigue. 
Prince Thitiphan Ukol died Tuesday in a Bangkok hospital after nine days in a coma. 
The prince's wife, Mom Chalasai Ukol, 25, had said she found him unconscious on the floor of his palace. 
The prince's suspicious rela­tives requested an autopsy, and one was performed Wednesday at the police hospital. Officials did not immediately release the results. 
But the doctor who treated him said that when the prince arrived at Vichaiyudh Hospital his heart had stopped and his brain suffered lack of oxygen. He never regained conscious­ness. 
"He died of unnatural caus­es," the doctor, Manoon Leechawengwong, said Wednesday by telephone. "I suspect he was poisoned." 
The chestnut vendor, Uthet 
Please Recycle The Observer 
Chupwa, has been held on charges of illegal entry into the palace, the newspaper The Nation reported. Bail has been denied. 
The prince's wife, widely known by her nickname "Look Pia," or Baby Fish, had been abandoned as a baby and adopted by the prince when she was 4, said the newspaper Thai Rath (Thai Nation). 
She took care of his children born to a former wife and was believed to have become the prince's mistress when she was 14, it saidl. 
The newspaper said the prince taught Look Pia how to use his citizens' band radio, and it was through the radio that she met several men with whom she often ran away. 
Look Pia ran away with the chestnut vendor last year. The prince placed newspaper 
advertisements asking her to return and offering $4,000 for help locating her. 
She came back, and the prince allowed the chestnut vendor to visit her at the palace, on condition they remained only friends. 
Late last year, the prince ­whose nickname is "Gop," or Frog -married Look Pia in a grand wedding, the newspaper account said. 
Atop the cake were figures of a frog kissing a fish. 
The prince was quoted as saying: "I've met so many women in my life, but I never found anybody like Look Pla. 
"My wife need not be beauti­ful. Nor does she need to be a good cook. But she has to be great in bed. Look Pia is my No. 1 in this regard." 

The Observer 
is now hiring for the following paid positions: 
Circulation Drivers 
Ifyou have between 11:00 a.m -2:00p.m. open in your schedule and are interested in this paid position call Joe Riley at 1-5313 


Catch the Action! 

-· 
-
Notre Dame vs. Purdue Saturday, September 9th 
Round trip bus transportation to Ross-Ade Stadium 
Buses leave at 11 :00 AM from Stepan Center Tickets: $15 at the LaFortune Info. Desk 
Game tickets available at the LaFortune Info. Desk starting Aug. 23 with student I.D. 
Sponsored by Student Activities 
L~==============~~~====~=========================== 
continued from page 1 
mension to their activities. 
"Not only can more people work there, but the kind of work they do will be more meaningful," said Royer. 
Despite the fact that Notre Dame has been running part­nership programs for three years, Royer says the new fund­ing is important."It's quite an honor to be recognized as hav­ing a model project. 
"Notre Dame has figured out a good way to work a partner­ship and the rest of the state is looking to us for leadership," Royer added. 
There will be representatives from over twenty different ser­vice organizations in South Bend at Activities Night Tues­day, Sept. 5. Students inter­ested in volunteering should stop by the tables or should call the esc at 1-7862. 
continued from p~ge 1 
series. We only produce quali­ty programming," added Schmiedeler. 
Despite such top-notch capa­bilities, few students are even aware of Notre Dame's resi­dent video production service. 
Based in the WNDU building, Golden Dome Productions is responsible for visual aides ranging from videos enlighten­ing freshmen at orientation to films striving to help students at informational seminars. 
Perhaps more notably, GDP produces Notre Dame's football highlight tapes. "Today's Life Choices" is only the most recent of GOP's works. 
After eight months of inter­mittent production, "Today's Life Choices" can be seen on WNIT-TV Channel 34 at 10:30 every Sunday morning begin­ning September 3. 





~ '(OUJi I ~ <~I 
~ _...-; 
;:;:; BECOME A CATECHIST ~ I 
Do you enjoy working with children or young adolescents? 
Would you be willing to give a couple of hours of your time each week? 
Would you like to bt: challenged to articulate your 
I 

faith better and to learn how to be an effective 
I 

teacher? Would you like to be a valuable asset to a local
I 

parish  community?  
If you  can  answer  YE:S  to  any  of  these  questions,  
then  maybe  you  would  be  interested  in  learning  

• 
more about how to become a CATECHIST. 
If interested, please contact John or Sylvia Dillon Campus Ministry-Badin hall 

CZ\MPU5 
631-5242

IV1INI5TRY 
CINEMA A~r THE SNITE 
presented by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
631-7361 

tiM@II~c,.uCOI: 
.:~>olbhi .i:L~~~"'~''w' 

.. , ~INO~lOOW 
"t\HE COMEDY EVENT OF THE YEAR! Savvy and screamingly funny! Hilarious!'

THERESE 
profane chatter ana mad-dog humor!' (1986) ..f.J•' "~···· 
lOS AW.ilt..t-\ lU'SU

Mon. Sept.4, 1pm 
"URREVERENTLY fUNNY AND BOISTEROUS!" 
.~t,n;,f'f;tftfit* 
. ~CW YOAA NiVfl.OAY 

'f;FHE FUNNIEST MOVIE OF THE YEAR!" 

ALPHAVILLE 
~A-~ 
Dir. by JearH.uc Godard Mon. Sept. 4, 9pm 
IFRIDAY &SATURDAY 7:30 &9:30 pm I 
Mel Gibson is 
The Smiling Madame Beudet I


THE ROAD 
Cabinet of Dr. Caligari (1919) 

Tue. Sept. 5 Tue.Sept. 5 7:00pm 9:00 pm World Wide Web<http://www.nd.edu/-cothweb/wwwsnite.html> 

WARRIOR 
; 
= 
= 

= 
= 
= 
------------~----------------------------~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Thursday, August 31, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Prosecution agrees to Book ban drop death penalty rising in 
By NANCY ARMOUR ing. Associated Press The decision not to seek the 
schools

death penalty was hard, said SOUTH BEND, Ind. George Allemenos, father of By SALLY STREFF BUZBEE 
Kofi Ajabu faces the possibil­Nick and Lisa. The James fam­Associated Press ity of life in prison for the grisly ily and Allemenos discussed it slayings of three Carmel resi­for about an hour, finally WASHINGTON dents, not the death penalty, af­agreeing it was best for them More books were banned ter reaching an agreement with and for the jury. from public school libraries prosecutors Wednesday. "Nothing's ever going to and classrooms last year than 
The jury that convicted bring the kids back, it doesn't the year before, a liberal advo­Ajabu, 22, on three counts of matter. We just hope he's never cacy group said Wednesday, al­murder Tuesday was dismissed on the streets again," though the number of attempts by St. Joseph Superior Court Allemenos said. to remove controversial mate­Judge Sanford Brook before the James said the families also rial actually fell. 

Katie KroenerfThe Observer 
Playinq ball Breen-Pnillips sophomore Liz Stroik catches a ball during a hall football practice. 
lNrERVARSfiY CfnmTIANFEu.o\wuP 
IE~Uhl 
Thursday 31§17:30 PM 
Center for Social C,ncems 
CaU Chuck 4-3439 or Kevin 277-1971 for infonnation 
death penalty phase of the trial began. 
Hamilton County Prosecutor Sonia Leerkamp agreed not to pursue the death penalty after the victims' family members agreed to a last-minute plea from defense attorney Kenneth Roberts. 
"We're satisfied because we still have the option of life in prison without parole. That's all we ever wanted out of this trial," said Dr. Charles James, father of Chris James, one of the victims. 
Ajabu was convicted Tuesday in the March 17, 1994, deaths of 17 -year-old Nick Allemenos; his sister, Lisa, 13; and James, 23, a family friend. The three were found bound and gagged with their throats slashed in the Allemenos home near Carmel. 
Under the agreement, Ajabu 
Id [ace H . ' 'thout
cou I e m prison WI parole, or prison terms ranging from 40 to 60 years on each count. Ajabu also was convicted of three counts each of robbery and criminal confinement, and one count of burglary. Ajabu faces six to 20 years on each of those counts, Brook said. 
A sentencing hearing will begin Oct. 2 in Hamilton Supe­rior Court, Brook said. Wit­nesses will be called to testify before Brook during the hear-
find out more about the Sacrament of 
considered which sentence would be easier to live with. If Ajabu was sentenced to death, the appeals process would probably take at least 10 to 15 years, he said. 
"I think the death penalty in Indiana is really a sentence to the families of the victims," he said. ''I'm not sure who suffers more." 
Leerkamp declined to explain why she agreed not to seek the death penalty after her office had pursued it for more than a year. But she said she was not influenced by threats allegedly made by Mmoja Ajabu, the de­fendant's father, against former Hamilton County prosecutor Steve Nation. 
Mmoja Ajabu faces criminal charges for the alleged threats. 
"There are just a lot ofthings that enter into that kind of decision, and I don't think I really want to go into them before all three (cases) are dis­posed of," Leerkamp said. 
The elder Ajabu said his threats to carry out additional executions are moot now that his son is no longer facing the death penalty. 
"(My son) is not facing the death penalty," he said. "We are still concerned about what portion of his life is going to be given up because of stupidity on his part." 
Ajabu has denied killing any­one, and said it was co-defen­dant Raymond Adams who slashed the victims' throats. Defense attorneys said Ajabu thought he was going to the Allemenos home to party, and was too scared to stop Adam.s 
"The attacks are bolder, broader and more organized than ever before," said People for the American Way legal di­rector Elliot Mincberg. 
The group said it document­ed 338 attempts to remove or restrict access to a book, and said 50 percent, or 169, were successful. The year before, 375 attempts were documented and 42 percent, or 157, were successful. 
But conservatives accused the group of exaggerating the number of incidents among the nation's 80,000 public schools, and of attacking parents' legit­imate concerns. "When a gov­ernment restricts what its citi­zens can read, that's censor­sltip," said Gary L. Bauer of the Family Research Council in Washington. "But when par­ents have input on what local officials do in the schools, that's democracy." 
People for the American Way said its report listed only in­stances when a parent or com­munity member tried to keep a book not just from one child, but from all children. 
"I support parental involve­ment," Mincberg said. "But I don't want my children's edu­cation restricted because someone else objects to a book." 
Among the books challenged, often because they contain pro­fanity, violence or sexual scenes, were anthologies of scary stories and such classics as Nobel Prize winner John Steinbeck's "Of Mice and Men" and Maya Angelou's "I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings." 




o~t~~o 
\J ~ 
Are you a baptized Catholic who has never been Confirmed? Would you like to prepare for Confirmation with other Notre Dame students? 
It's a wonderful opportunity to ... 
-+ learn and talk about your faith -+ meet new friends 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING: 
Sunday, September 3 6:30p.m. Faculty Dining Room (upstairs in the South Dining Hall) 
Questions?? Call Darrell Paulsen at 631-5242 or stop by the Badin Campus Ministry office 
Would you like to sponsor a candidate for Confirmation? oil' 
-
Call Darrell at 631-5242 or come to the sponsors' info session at 6:30p.m. on Monday, September 4 in the Faculty Dining Room 
~ 







INDIANAUNIVERSITY 
··=····s · ·:. B.·
:,:. .. OUTH END ·.. 
CO~GEDUCATION 
More than 200 classes in professiot1al and personal development 
• Computers • Purdue Statewide Technology • • Business Management • Small Business • Supervision • • Communications • Languages • Allied Health • • Certified Financial Planner • CEBS • Human Resources ·• • Accounting • Customer Service • Paralegal Studies • • Purchasing Management • Small Manufacturing • • Production & Inventory Management • • Quality Management • Safety & Health Management • • Real Estate • Insurance • Montessori Education • • Early Childhood • Yo~th Programs • College Proficiency • LSAT, GRE, GMAT Reviews • • Personal Finance • Personal Enrichment • Recreation • 
Classes begin Sept. 5 C~ll for your free catalog .. \13~-4261 
: . ;., . '. 




ELSIE'S PROMISE, AND DILLON'S FINEST 
Thursday, August 31, 1995 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Study reveals national service program costs 
By CALVIN WOODWARD selected community projects. 
Associated Press The Senate, where support for AmeriCorps has been WASIIINGTON stronger, is expected to take it 
. Doing good doesn't come up within two weeks. Already cheap. With AmeriCorps' future the study has become fodder in the balance, a congressional for the debate. report hints at the youthful en-Grassley said it was now obvi­ergy and details the big money ous AmeriCorps is a "Great So­behind President Clinton's na-ciety-style boondoggle." Demo­tiona! service program. cratic Sen. Barbara Mikulski of 
The General Accounting Of-Maryland, who joined Grassley lice found the average partici-in asking for the investigation, pant in AmeriCorps is sup-said the program is doing its ported by $25,000 in federal, job. state and local tax dollars, or The GAO, Congress's auditing more than $18 for an hour of office, made no judgments direct community work by each about the value or cost effi­person. .--ciency of the program and said 
Republican Sen. Charles it was too early to know how Grassley of Iowa said the study much was actually spent. shows Clinton should reinvent Instead, it calculated how his showcase service program much money and support were or ditch it. raised for AmeriCorps projects. 
Citing a "large gap between The study found the average AmeriCorps' plans and its real-AmeriCorps worker was backed ity," Grassley said the program by $20,806 in federal invest­"burdens taxpayers with big ment, plus $4,028 from state bureaucracy and excessive and local governments for a costs." total public contribution of 
But AmeriCorps chief Eli Se-$24,834. The private sector gal said the study supported his added $1,819 per worker. view that the program's bene-The public investment aver­fits are outweighing its costs, aged $18.26 for each hour of and succeeding in using federal direct community service, the dollars to attract state, local, study said. nonP.rofit and private support. The hourly figure varied wild­
."That's the sign of a robust ly from project to project. partnership," said Segal, chief The Washington State Service executive officer of the Corps, drawn largely from com­Corporation for National munities hit by the decline of Service, parent body of the timber industry, came in at AmeriCorps. $15.26 an hour. The Seaborne 
GAO investigators delved into Conservation Corps, an envi­AmeriCorps projects and found ronmental and drug-awareness participants going to communi-program put on by the Defense ties across the country-living and Navy departments, the in housing projects to help poor Texas National Guard and tenants, restoring salmon habi-Texas A&M University, reached tats, fighting hunger in $49.06. Vermont, drawing young and Segal complained GAO figures old people of the Bronx into the were artificially high because arts. the study did not count time 
They also found AmeriCorps spent by participants in self-ed­
. in its first year "relied heavily ucation as community service. on public support," with gov-In AmeriCorps, up to 20 per­ernments providing all but 12 cent of a participant's time is percent of the $351 million de-supposed to be used for train­vOted to the program. ing or education. 
The House has voted to stop He also said many Ameri­spending on the program, Corps participants drum up vol­which provides $4,725 educa-unteers and the value of that lion grants and living al-recruitment should ha~e been lowances to participants who subtracted from the mvest­work at least 1, 700 hours on ment. 

Turner considers takeover 

By SKIP WOLLENBERG 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Ted Turner is weighing a takeover bid from Time Warner Inc. in what sources said would be an $8.5 billion deal making the brash and fiercely indepen­dent Turner second-in-com­mand of the biggest media and entertainment company in the world. 
Time Warner and Turner Broadcasting System Inc. con­firmed Wednesday that they were talking about a stock swap that would bring together Turner's cable networks, in­cluding CNN and Headline News, with Time Warner's pub­lishing, music and film busi­nesses. 
Sources said Time Warner offered $8.5 billion in stock to make Turner Broadcasting a wholly owned subsidiary. Ted Turner would become a vice chairman of the new company, said one source close to the deal. 
"Ted would not be the king­fish but he'd still be a very sig­nificant fish in a much larger pond," said the source, who spoke on condition of anonymi­ty. 
Such a deal would continue a merger frenzy in the media and entertainment industry this summer. Many program pro­ducers and distributors are teaming in the belief that bigger is better. 
Just weeks ago, Walt Disney Co. struck a $19 billion deal to buy ABC, and Westinghouse Electric Corp. bid $5.4 billion for CBS. 
Turner, a showman who built his father's billboard company into the cable industry's show­piece property, is said to sup­port the deal. That suggests he has abandoned his desire to own one of the Big Three net­works, such as CBS. 
Some analysts said Turner, a brash businessman dubbed the Mouth of the South, would have a hard time being second-in­command. 
"I don't see Ted Turner being interested in sitting through four-hour board meetings at Time Warner in New York," said John Reidy, a media indus­try analyst at Smith Barney. 
"You can't work for a company Some analysts said other bid­after you've owned it." ders could appear for Turner 
Before the deal goes through, Broadcasting, now that Turner Turner must persuade Tele­has signaled his intention to Communications Inc., Turner sell. Broadcasting's No. 1 outside Among those mentioned are shareholder, to approve the General Electric Co., the parent deal. The Englewood, Colo.­of NBC, and Rupert Murdoch's based company, headed by News Corp., which owns the John Malone, wouldn't com­Fox network. ment. Turner built his empire on an 
Turner holds a majority of the outdoor advertising business he stock in Turner Broadcasting. inherited from his father. 
But TCI owns about 21 per­His 1970 purchl!-se of a single cent, and Time Warner owns UHF station in Atlanta grew about 18 percent. into a global empire that 
They each have three seats includes the cable channels on the 15-member Turner CNN, Headline News, TNT, TBS board and individually can veto Superstation and the Cartoon major deals. Network; movie studios New 
Time Warner had until re­Line Cinema and Castle Rock cently been negotiating to sell Entertainment; and baseball's its Turner stake back to Turner Atlanta Braves and basketball's Broadcasting in an effort to re­Atlanta Hawks. duce its $15 billion debt. Time Time Warner owns the na­Warner had also blocked an tion's second-biggest collection earlier effort by Turner to bid of cable systems; the Home Box for NBC. Office and Cinemax pay-TV 
Analysts said the Disney-ABC channels; Warner Bros. studios; deal drove home the realization and Time, People and Sports at both Turner Broadcasting Illustrated magazines. and Time Warner that they Last year, Time Warner was needed to get bigger to com­the world's biggest media and pete. entertainment company with 
Time Warner's chairman, revenue of about $15.9 billion. Gerald Levin, visited Turner at The Disney-ABC deal would Turner's ranch in Montana ear­create a company with com­lier this month and outlined his bined revenue of about $16.5 plan to combine the companies. billion. 
0 


The Observer 
0 

Come to our open house 


TONIGHT! 
7:00 -10:00 PM 
3rd Floor LaFortune 

---------------------------------------------------------~-------------­
pageS The Observer • NEWS Thursday, August 31, 1995 

Drug induced abortions Israel celebrates birthday 
called safe and effective 
By DANIEL HANEY 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 
Doctors can quickly and safe­ly induce abortions at home with a combination of two drugs already on the market for other uses, researchers reported in a study that could preempt the political debate over whether to make the French abortion pill available in the United States. 
·The two-drug combination may be as effective as the French abortion pill, RU-486, which is undergoing testing in this country. 
The two kinds of drug­induced abortion have not yet been compared directly, and neither is likely to work as well as surgical abortion. 
A small study published last October in the Journal of the American Medical Association showed the potential of the new two-drug combination. 
Now a much larger study in this week's New England Journal of Medicine demon­strates its safety and effective­ness. 
"This is an exciting phe­nomenon because it will pro­vide yet another choice for women," said Dr. Richard U. Hausknecht, who conducted the latest study. "Since there is a paucity of health care ptoviders ·providing abortions in some parts of the United States, this may have a signifi­cant impact." 
RU-486, which is also called mifepristone, was developed by the French pharmaceutical firm Roussel Uclaf and has been used in Europe for more than a decade. 
The Population Council is overseeing testing at several hospitals and clinics in the United States as a step toward seeking FDA approval. 
Abortion opponents fiercely oppose introduction of RU-486 and have threatened a boycott of any pharmaceutical compa­ny that manufactures it. 
Hausknecht, a gynecologist at Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New York City, tested the new approach on women in their first nine weeks of preg­nancy. 
It involves a combination of methotrexate, a widely used cancer drug, and misoprostol, an ulcer medicine. Methotrexate destabilizes the uterine lining, and misoprostol triggers contractions that expel the fetus. 
The combination induced abortions in 171 of 178 preg­nant volunteers, or 96 percent. Other studies show that RU­486, the French pill, is about 95 percent effective. 
By NICOLAS TATRO Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 

Israel is throwing a party for Jerusalem's 3,000th birthday, but not everyone wants to cele­brate. 
Palestinians say "Jerusalem 3000," a 15-month bash that starts Monday, is an attempt to promote Israel's claim to all of the disputed city. The European Union, trying to stay clear of the fray, is snubbing the festivi­ties and cutting off subsidies. 
And archaeologists and Or­thodox rabbis say this isn't the right year, anyway. Organizers say $7 million will be spent on fireworks and lasers, outdoor concerts, sound and light shows, ballets and photo exhibits to mark the 3,000th anniversary of King David's capture of Jerusalem and establishment of Jewish rule. 
Performers from 30 countries will participate, Daniel Baren­boim will conduct the Deutsche Staatsoper of Berlin in perform­ing Beethoven's only opera, "Fidelio," and the Gospel Music Association of Nashville, Tenn., will perform. There will be an Islamic art exhibit. 
FLOWERS Flowers, Roses, . . Ba~oons, Birthday
DELIVERED 
Cakes, Fruit Baskets,
cjj7 DAYScjj 
Plush Animals an'd Gifts 


~asy tatGh 
Clocktower Square ALL MAJOR CREDIT Phone Answered 51400 US 31 North 24 Hours a Day 
south Bend CARDS ACCEPTED 277-1291 or 1-800-328-0206 
Critics, however, say the bal­ance is tilted toward the Jewish history of the city, which was ruled by a long list of con­querors: Persians, Greeks, Romans, Byzantines, Muslims, Crusaders, Mamelukes, Ot­tomans and the British. 
"It is true, and I'm not hiding it, that the main emphasis will recall the Jewish history," said Mayor Ehud Olmert. "Unfortunately, the Muslim com­munity here was not too coopera­tive in taking part in all kinds of activities." 
Ikrema Sabri, the mufti of Jerusalem and the highest-ranking Muslim cleric in the city, said the festivities are an attempt by Israel to sway world opinion in advance of negotiations on the fmal status of the disputed city, scheduled to start in May 1996. 
"Israel will discover that cel­ebrations, concerts and exhibi­tions will not change history," Sabri said. "Israelis know very well that the city is not a Jewish city or a united one." 


Attention Communities ND Participants!! Come to the KICK-OFF DAY Sunday. September 3 LaFortune:: Ballroom 12:30-2:30 eat LUNCH ... see your FRIENDS .. . get your COMMUNITY started again .. . keynote speaker: LOU NANNI. (Z\MPUSDirector of the Center for the Homeless MINISTRY  


_,,.._ 
w-... 

Thursday, August 31, 1995 The Observer • YUGOSLAVIA NEWS page 9 
< 


NATO attacks Bosnian Serbs, French plane lost 
Airstrikes intended to convince Serbs, Congress of organization's resolve 
By DONALD M. ROTHBERG 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
After years of weakness and indecision, a long-awaited show of strength in Bosnia could open a new chapter in the con­flict -but only if the toughest NATO air strikes of the war convince the Serbs, and maybe the U.S. Congress, that the West is united and resolved. 
"We are now translating into acts what we have always said," NATO Secretary General Willy Claes said Wednesday as waves of warplanes hit at Serb targets. 
In the past, the Serbs could scoff at Western threats that never led to anything more than brief air strikes designed to avoid casualties and severe damage. 
The current assault involved dozens of NATO planes as well as bombardment from the heavy guns of the U.N. rapid reaction force. 
. U.S. Navy Adm. Leighton 
Are you thinking about becoming Catholic? 
Would you like to sponsor someone who wants to become Catholic? 
If you answered YES to either of these questions, please come to one of the information sessions listed below to find out more about the RCIA (Rite of Christian Initiation of Adults) 
Information sessions for candidates Sun. 9/3 4 pm Badin Hall Campus Ministry Office 
Wed. 9/6 10 pm 103 Hesburgh Library (CM office) 
Sun. 9/10 12:30 pm Log Chapel 
Smith, the NATO commander in charge of the strikes, said they were meant to "do a significant amount of damage" to Bosnian Serb military targets and "get their attention." 
Claes said the attacks had the dual purpose of retaliating for Monday's shelling of a Sarajevo market and pressuring the Bosnian Serbs to negotiate. He said the Serbs were unlikely "to accept reasonable compro­mises if the international com­munity did not react in a strong way as we are doing for the moment." 
The attacks also could head off a battle between President Clinton and Congress over whether to lift the ban on arms sales to the Bosnian govern­ment. 
Clinton vetoed legislation to lift the embargo and Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole said that if the NATO strikes prove "part of a new and effective policy" he would postpone a vote on overriding the presi­dent's veto . 

Information sessions for sponsors Mon. 9/4 7 pm Badin Hall Campus Ministry Office 
Thurs. 9/7 10 pm 103 Hesburgh Library (CM office) 
Sun. 9/10 ·12:30 pm Log Chapel 
By LIAM McDOWALL 
Associated Press 
SARAJEVO 

In a fierce new strategy that could end the Bosnian war or escalate it sharply, the West pounded the Bosnian Serbs with artillery and air attacks Wednesday in hopes of blud­geoning them into serious peace talks. 
The West's gamble showed early signs of paying off, though one French plane was shot down and the extent of bomb damage wasn't immediately clear. Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic and a Serb leader in Bosnia talked about continuing talks on a U.S.-pro­posed peace plan. 
The attacks, NATO's biggest assault in its history, could mark a turning point in the 40­month war that has tested U.N. and NATO credibility and left an estimated 200,000 Bosnians dead or missing. 
NATO and U.N. officials warned the Serbs to stop attacking civilians and return to peace talks or brace for more of the same. 
"The world has finally done what it should have done a long, long time ago," said Bosnian President Alija Izetbe­govic, who characterized the assault as "the beginning peace." 
But Bosnian Serb Radovan Karadzic leader sounded a defi­ant note, accusing NATO and the U.N. of declaring war. "This is a precedent which could jeopardize world peace and trigger the Third World War," he warned. 
The bombing raids by NATO planes began around 2 a.m. Wednesday and continued through late afternoon, when a French Mirage fighter jet was shot down near the Bosnian Serb stronghold of Pale, east of Sarajevo. Its two crew mem­bers were seen parachuting from the burning plane, but 
NATO strikes back 
NATO war jets are targeting multiple Serb sites, including ammunition factories and communications centers in "'iiiiiiiiill• Sarajevo and Pale. The strike is in retaliation for a large mortar shelling which killed 37 people 
Monday in downtown Sarajevo. 
• NATO targets 
Vogosca Ser6 ammunition factory NATO jets also targeted Bosnian Serb air defenses near the towns of Mostar, Gorazde andTuzla. 

their fate was unknown. 
"Find the pilots! Find the pi­lots!" Karadzic shouted from the window of the Bosnian Serb television building in Pale. 
Bosnian security sources later claimed the crew members were captured, but France said it couldn't confirm that. 
Five European Union peace monitors -three Spaniards and their driver and interpreter -were killed, Spanish officials announced in Brussels. The Serbs said they were killed by the NATO-U.N. attacks, but the Spanish o-fficials said they couldn't confirm that. 
Bombs hit the Bosnian Serb army barracks in Pale, and a thick plume of smoke hung over the town. U.N. officials said Serb ammunition plants and depots in at least three other locations around Sarajevo were apparently destroyed. 
NATO and U.N. officials said their attacks were limited to military targets, but Bosnian Serb officials claimed there were unspecified civilian casualties. 
Russian President Boris Yeltsin condemned the wide­spread NATO bombing raids. 
DORMITORY REFRIGERATORS 
RENTAL SIZES: 
2.5 
CUBIC FEET 

3.5 
CUBIC FEET 

4.5 
CUBIC FEET 


6.5 CUBIC FEET 
starting at 
$45 
Pale 
A Bosnian Serb stronghold Mount Jahorlna (near Pale) Air defense radar complex 
Mortar 
This 120 mrr shell is the size that hit the Sarajevo marketplace Monday .• 
But Italian Foreign Minister Susanna Agnelli said Russia, one of five members of the in­ternational negotiating group trying to end the Bosnian war, had agreed to the attacks. 
The raids also were clear punishment for the Serbs' shelling Monday of a Sarajevo market, in which 37 people were killed. 
The West was taking a calcu­lated risk that the retaliation wouldn't derail peace talks. 
The attacks were intended to "modify Bosnian Serb behavior to make them think again about using military force and return to the negotiating table," said Jamie Shea, the spokesman for NATO Secretary-General Willy Claes. 
Momcilo Krajisnik, the leader of the Bosnian Serbs' self-styled parliament, said despite the NATO bombing "there are big chances for the continuation of the peace process." 
Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic agreed. The Balkan powerbroker, whose influence is necessary to make a deal, said a U.S.-backed peace plan for Bosnia "creates a real per­spective for peace." 

Questions? 
for the school year Call Fr. Bob Dowd, CSC at 1-7800 

PICK-UP AND DELIVERY AVAILABLE 
(l\MPUS or 
Kate Barrett at 1-5242 
BURNS RENTAL, INC
MINISTRY 
332 W. MISHAWAKA AVE. 
(corner of Mishawaka Ave. and Uberty Dr.) 
259-2833 259-2833 
~----~---­
------~---~ 
p~e 10 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, August 31, 1995 
Guinness Record Book museum closes, 1llolds sale 
By LARRY McSHANE claimed a cardboard sign near lunchtime tour with his two See anything you like, Yury? with silver tape, and a Golden Associated Press its ticket booth. "Inquire inside sons. There was nothing in the ''I'm not interested in buy­Gate Bridge in need of for the price of your future exhibit that inspired him to ing," the Rider College fresh-­repaving. NEW YORK Guinness memorabilia." start writing checks. man said, puzzled by the con-· Ripley decided to close the 
It's a once-in-a-lifetime That includes a plastic replica "The kids might get a kick cept of somebody actually buy­current exhibit and open a chance to put a statue of the of Krystyne Kolorful, the out of taking home the tattooed ing the shovels. ''I'm just look­modern, interactive Guinness World's Tallest Man in the mid­world's most tattooed Lady. Or lady, but I don't think so," said ing around." museum, Burns said. A new site dle of your living room -if you a genuine photo of the largest Batnick, standing beside a stat­The sale was announced after in the city has not yet been have 9-foot ceilings. baked pizza in U.S. history -ue of the world's fattest man, the Ripley Entertainment Corp. determined. 
A dilapidated Guinness Book with a diameter of 100 feet, 1 1,069-pound Robert "Earl" -the believe-it-or-not folks -­Still. there are some nicer of World Records museum is inch. Or the headless faux torso Hughes. took over in February. items for sale: a copy of the al­going out of business, and its of the world's tallest man. Yury Konev, 18, was examin­They immediately saw the bum "Thriller" autographed by exhibits were up for sale Robert Wadlow, who was 8 feet ing a collection of shovels hon­site was in dire need of an over­Michael Jackson. A vintage Wednesday, giving patrons first 11.1 inches tall when he died in oring th·e gluttonous work of haul. In one section, Kentuckv jukebox from the rock 'n' roll crack at its bizarre inventory. 1940 at 22. Pete Dowdeswell, who holds the was listed as the home o'r section. A 6-foot-high plastic 
The museum. an Empire Just make a bid; nothing has following eating records: 22 "Mahammad" Ali, which Elvis swiveling around a micro­State Building fixture for 19 a price tag. "We're not that meat pies in 18 minutes, 13 should be should be spelled phone. years, will be permanently tacky," said Paul Burns, who's seconds; 21 hamburgers in 9 Muhammad. (He was born in Bids will be taken on the closed after Labor Day, taking overseeing the sale. minutes, 42 seconds; 1 pound Louisville, Ky.) The World's items through Labor Day. On its quirky collection along. It's tacky enough already, of raw eels in 13.7 seconds; 13 Greatest Structures exhibit in­Sept. 7. the winners can come 
"The end of an era," pro-said Leslie Batnick, taking a raw eggs in one second. cludes a Gateway Arch mended by and collect their booty. 
catch 
out 
~l 0 
,
, 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
EttiU•!.!.p 
Expires 10/15/95 

$5 ~off Men • s Brittania Jeans. 
Limit one coupon per guest. Reproductions not a,;cepted. Cashier: Scan product, then scan coupon. 
®TARC3ET 
s 85239 52074 

Thursday, Augusr 31, 199 5 
The Observer • NEWS page II 
Kevorkian charges dismissed 
Ex-soldier says he saw US POW s in Russia

By BRIAN AKRE Associa1ed Press 
PONTIAC, Mich. 
A judge dismissed murder charges Wednesday against Dr. Jack Kevorkian in the 1991 deaths of two women, then or­
~r~~~d h/::: --···iirPrl assisted sui-· cide. Circuit Judge David ·' 
F. Breck 
ruled that 1 Ke v o r k i a n Kevorkian 
could not be tried for murder because there was no evidence he committed a direct act that caused the deaths of Marjorie Wantz and Sherry Miller. 
But the judge said there was ample evidence that Kevorkian assisted in their suicides by buying the supplies and setting up the apparatus that killed them. 
·Assistant Prosecutor Gregory Townsend said he thought Breck's ruling was wrong but that charges against Kevorkian would be refiled, probably by Friday. 
"The law is quite clear.... If one actively participates in the death, then they're liable for murder. But at least the judge has indicated we'll be proceed­ing to trial on assisted suicide charges," Townsend said. 
In 1992, Breck dismissed murder charges in the case and ruled that there was no law in Michigan against assisted sui­cide. A state appellate court re­instated the murder charges and threw out a ban on assisted suicide the Legislature enacted after the women's deaths. 
In December, the state Supreme Court upheld the law against assisted suicide ­which by then had expired. The state's highest court went a step farther and said that as­sisted suicide could be prose­cuted under the body of legal customs known as common law. 
Over the past five years, the 67 -year-old Kevorkian, an ad­vocate for physician-assisted suicide for the terminally ill, has been present at 25 suicides reported to authorities. His lawyer suggested he may have been present at others. 
The bodies of Wantz and Miller were found together in a remote cabin on Oct. 23, 1991. Miller, who was 43, had multi­ple sclerosis; Wantz was 58 and had severe pelvic pain. 
In his ruling, Breck noted that Kevorkian had counseled both women to seek alternative relief from their pain. The judge also said there was no testimony that Kevorkian start­ed, the device that injected lethal drugs into Miller or opened the canister from which Wantz inhaled carbon monox­ide. 
Kevorkian attorney Geoffrey Fieger had argued that the state Supreme Court ruling making assisted suicide a crime under common law was too vague. 
"It will be virtually impossible for Dr. Kevorkian to defend himself because we'll essen­tially be making up the ele­ments of this crime," Fieger told the judge. Kevorkian did not attend the hearing. 
Speaking to reporters after­ward, Fieger said he does not believe the state can success­fully prosecute assisted suicide charges. He also urged prose­cutors to drop the case. 
"Nobody but the radical reli­gious right wants more of Oak­land County's money spent in pursuing fruitless prosecutions of Dr. Kevorkian," Fieger said. 
4TH and 1 TO GO 
On Saturday at 1:30 p.m. the 1995-96 Notre Dame football season will begin. It is time to stop focusing so much on last season, with its wins and losses, mistakes and missed opportunities. It is time to focus on this season as one giant opportunity to be tackled one week at a time. 
For many seniors at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's there is excitement, anticipation, and maybe even some fear. In a way, it is the beginning of another season, perhaps the last of its kind. The beginning of senior year is more than just the beginning of another academic year. For most seniors it marks the beginning of the end of one phase of their lives. 
Most seniors will tell you that, during the last few years, there have been some great times and some tough times. There have been accomplishments, and missed opportuni­ties. 
Many of the seniors I know talk about how they wish they 
By VLADIMIR ISACHENKOV 
Associa1ed Press 

MOSCOW 
A former Soviet soldier's tes­timony that he met four Ameri­can POWs in 1951 may be the first evidence that Korean War­era servicemen were held in the Soviet Union, investigators said Wednesday. 
Members of a 3-year-old Russian-U.S. commission searching for traces of Soviet­era POWs told a news confer­ence that the soldier's testi­mony could be a breakthrough. 
The panel long ago dismissed any hopes that American POWs could still be alive in the for­mer Soviet Union, and the an­nouncement did not change that. 
Instead, the commission is searching for the remains of servicemen and trying to clari­fy the circumstances of their deaths. 
The commission's Russian co-chairman, historian Dmitry Volkogonov, told a news con­ference that the former soldier, Vladimir Trotsenko, reported having met the U.S. servicemen in a military hospital near Arsenyev, in the Russian Far East. 
Trotsenko also said he had seen the grave of a fifth Ameri­can in the hospital cemetery. 
Volkogonov said the testi­mony was confirmed by other evidence and seemed highly trustworthy. He said the cap­tured Americans could be the crew of a U.S. bomber downed by the Soviets on Nov. 6, 1951, near Vladivostok. 
"If these really were Ameri­cans, it's unclear what hap­pened to them afterwards," he said. 
Malcolm Toon, the commis­sion's American co-chairman, praised Trotsenko's "honesty and ... excellent memory." 
"Both sides of the commis­sion agree that the grave iden­tified by Mr. Trotsenko possibly holds the remains of an Ameri­can flyer," Toon said, adding that the grave would be ex­humed. 
"I believe this plenary ses­sion may be a turning point in the search for an answer to one of our most vexing ques­tions," said Toon. 

CAMPUS MINISTRY••• 
•••CONSIDERATIONS 
are invited to participate in our Catechist Program, and even­tually teach local children about the Christian tradition. By serving at the Basilica as a Eucharistic Minister. Reader. Altar Server, or Usher, you can be a sign of God's presence in the Church during liturgies. By being a mentor in our Mentor Program, you can be a positive influence on the lives of disadvantaged kids in the local area. 
If you're beginning what you think may be your last year at Notre Dame, it is not too late to be marked by this place in a powerful way. The way to be marked in the most significant way is to get involved and to put what you believe most deeply into concrete action. 
If any of us at Campus Ministry can assist you in any way to put your mark on Notre Dame and be marked by Notre Dame, please let us know. 
It is not too late! But, it is fourth and one to go. 
Bob Dowd, C.S.C. 

would have been less cautious during the last few years. Now, they want to take more risks. They want to express what they believe. They want their lives to mean something beyond a G.P.A. Before they move on with their lives they want to leave their mark on Notre Dame and they want to be marked by Notre Dame, in a powerful way. 
For seniors, now it is time to focus on this year, perhaps the last of its kind, as one giant opportunity. 
If you're beginning what you think may be your last year at Notre Dame, it is not too late to leave your mark on this place. There are many different ways of leaving your mark on Notre Dame. I invite you to take advantage of the ways you can leave your mark on this place by ministering tooth­
ers, fellow students and people in the wider community, through Campus Ministry and the Center for Social Concerns. 
We encourage you to sign up for retreats Gr to organize retreats yourselves. We invite you to assist with any one of tl].e five retreats for freshmen that will take place this year. We encourage you to be a sponsor for someone who seeks Baptism, Confirmation. or to enter the Catholic Church. You 
Twenty-Second Sunday in Ordinary Time  
SATURDAY VIGIL MASSES September 2 Basilica 30 min. after game Rev. Mark Poorman, C.S.C Stepan Center 45 min. after game Rev. Richard Warner, C.S.C.  
SUNDAY MASSES AT SACRED HEART BASILICA September 3 8:00a.m. Rev. Robert Moss, C.S.C. 10:00 a.m. Most Rev. Joseph R. Crowley, D.D. 11:45 a.m. Rev. Thomas Gaughan, C.S.C.  

VIEWPOINT 
page 12 Thursday, August 31, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
John Lucas 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Elizabeth Regan Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ......................]en Mackowiak Sports Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor .................................. Rob Finch Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patri Carson Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor /Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E~il observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
O~TI tJC:, ~IS (oN­WEI.. COME To CHtNA:'I f't;~ENC..E 1 CH'~~ PRo\J£.5 O~t.E. l:>Rop li4£ pu~t41iE SISTE'-· ~o fo(2.. A.\..\.. ~ovJ (r>Mrtt t"liE.D 

l}Je. 1\Rrc..To ~E. £QuAL.,.,.~ ANP /ND~ft.NP~C.E Of WoME.I"l··· 
• KEVORKIAN KORNER 
Boldly going where duLac has never gone before 
W
ake up the echoes! Another year at Notre Dame begins! As I enter my twilight years under the shad­ow of Our Lady, these words resound in my mind. I may be only a sentimental old cleric, but from my vantage point as a life trustee of the University, I have seen many an autumn go by, and each year Notre Dame renews itself with the callow spirits and thirsty intellects of young students. Welcome. 
As one "in the know," I am often approached by young people, and asked for some pointers on how to "get on" at the University. Pray, I tell them, and do not be turned aside from your vocation by worldly concerns. 
When I frrst entered the university, the political scandals of the day made for a <f!sillusioned, apathetic class. We jeered at the skullduggery of "Rutherfraud" B. 
'Make no mistake -we 
are "the Irish" to the world, and there is one thing the Irish are universally rec­ogitized as doing best -and I don't mean terrorism!' 
Hayes. We were a saucy lot, all right, but in the end the nurturing discipline of a Catholic education had broken our spirits and made men of us. I for one still treasure the welts on my back from the healthy flogging applied by my latin masters, and I hope the same pleasures await each of you! 
S
till, I would not be much of a Holy . Cross brother if I gave my young friends stones when they asked for bread. Here are a few helpful tips to get you through your introductory year. 
University Alcohol Policy. We here at Notre Dame have strict rules for practi­cally everything, but make no mistake ­we are "the Irish" to the world, and there is one thing the Irish are univer­sally recognized as doing best -and I don't mean terrorism! The entering stu­dent should therefore never balk at 
Josh Ozersky 

imbibing strong spirits throughout the day, and as far into the night as will not interfere with his or her studies. Occasionally some of our more timid students have been known to develop learning disorders or occasional palsies from this tradition, but college is a time of challenge, and the years have shown that Notre Dame students have "what it takes." 
F
reshmen should not make the mis­take, however, of thinking the uni­versity's drug policy equally carefree. Although the smoke of a well-rolled "blunt" is still permitted and even encouraged during football weekends, acid tests and X parties should be thrown with care, and crystal meth remains a no-no outside the dorm. 
Football players and you. Although it is often said that members of our leg­endary football team are "above the rules," nothing could be further from the truth. Football players are expected 
· to coexist peacefully even with students who do not generate revenue, and their foibles are definitely frowned upon by we in the dome. Still, we would be hard-hearted indeed if we condemned a young person for a few mistakes in bal­ancing his checkbook -or for that mat­ter someone else's! Likewise, some of our "loyal sons" have been known to get a little enthusiastic at social events, but that aggression serves us well enough on the playing field. Nor should the pru­dent freshman hesitate to "lend" football players money if they ask for it, or even provide an occasional rubdown or foot massage. 
Great Men ofNotre Dame. Often, stu­dents are intimidated by the presence of eminent men like coach Lou Holtz. Father Theodore Hesburgh, or Professor Alastair Mcintyre of the philosophy department. Nothing could be sillier. If you happen to see Fr. Hesburgh in the library, don't hesitate to call him by his nickname, "Fats." Likewise. Coach Holtz likes nothing more than a late­night prank phone call reminding him of 
'some of our "loyal sons" 
have been known to get a little enthusiastic at social events, but that aggression serves us well enough on the playing field. Nor should the prudent freshman hesitate to "lend" football players money if they ask for it, or even pro­vide an occasional rubdown or foot massage.' 
his inability to win big games in recent years; and as I have mentioned before, eminent professors like Mcintyre, Charles Rice, and Armin Varma enjoy nothing more than a student prank now and again, and count as a loss the week in which they are not the target of a well-placed water balloon or spitball. 
The Culture of the Midwest. Although Notre Dame started out as a simple haven for midwestern Catholics, it has become a national mecca to which both Catholics and Episcopalians come to fur­ther their education. Regional shocks lay in store, however, which the prudent out-of-state student would do well to prepare against. 
T
he codes of Victorian propriety which persist in the south and west 
'c•oach Holtz likes noth­

dng more than a late­night prank phone call reminding him of his inability to win big games in recent years, and eminent professors count as a loss the week in which they are not the target of a well-placed water balloon or spitball. 
have been put aside here in exciting Michiana, where a wide array of X-rated bookstores and massage parlors dot Michigan Avenue. Every sort of sexual lifestyle is encouraged by community mores. and the more exotic fetishes often garner special fellowships from local toastmasters and alumni clubs. Although this might not seem to square with Catholic tradition, Notre Dame has been in the vanguard of cutting social thought in recent years, and supports a wide variety of thrill-seeking alternative activities, from asphyxiatory autoeroti­cism to in-line skating. 
Notre Dame is the foremost Catholic university in the hemisphere, and its atmosphere of intellectual unity, spiritu­al wholeness, and fmancial opulence has attracted you. It is my most devout wish that you are served well by what little wisdom I have here offered. God help you. 
Josh Ozersky is a graduate student in history. He can be reached over e-mail at: joshua. a. ozersky.l@nd. edu 
• 000NES8URY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• QUOTIE OF THE DAY 

~----~--~-·---~~---­
l 
j I I I 
ACCENT 
Th\-lrsday, August 31, 1995 page 13 
• SUMMER MUSIC REVIEWS 
Soul Asylum still shining 


By CHRISTIAN STEIN 
Music Critic 
Soul Asylum 
Let Your Dim Light Shine 
**** 
out of five 
I
n 1992 Soul Asylum rid themselves of a fourteen year burden with the r~le..ase ?f the hit single "Runaway Tram. Wtth the release of their lat­est album, Let Your Dim Light Shine. it appears as if Dave Pirner and compa­ny have stuck with a formula that sells records -catchy lyrics and appealing music. By no means is Let Your Dim Light Shine a top forty album. but with the instant success of the first single "Misery" it is safe to say that this album will have similar if not greater success than Grav~ Dancers Union did three years ago. 
One of the most evident differences on Let Your Dim Light Shine is the addition of drummer Sterling Campbell, who has made such a noticeable impact that songwriter Pirner said of him in a recent Rolling Stone interview, "For the first time in 14 years, I've got the right drummer." This is not to say that former drum­mer Grant Young's efforts were inferi­or to Campell's, but rather that Campbell carries with him the ability to compliment Pirner's lyrics with a stronger presence. 
The complimenting of lyrics is defi­nitely the forte of Soul Asylum's latest release. While Grave Dancers Union focused on smooth acoustic rhythms accompanied by distorted electric leads which together overshadowed Pirner's lyrics.the music on Let Your Dim Light Shine emphasizes Pirner's lyrics and, in doing so, proves skeptics who thought Soul Asylum was going to ride on the success of "Runaway Train" completely wrong. 
Let Your Dim Light Shine begins with "Misery," a song which sounds as if Soul Asylum went into the studio, took out the tapes from Grave Dancers Union played them back until after "Hunaway Train" and then start­ed recording the same type of music. Perhaps the similarity in sound of "Misery" to "Runaway Train" is why it has won the approval of the masses and helped the new album to remain in the Billboard Top 20 for seven weeks to date. 
The similarities, however, stop once the second song, "Shut Down" begins. This song opens with feedback and driving, distorted power chords in true rock anthem tradition and con­tinues through its entirety with fist pumping energy. The music compli­ments Pirner's lyrics about relation­ships and his obvious dissatisfaction. 
"If I don't get what you want I and you don't get what I need I we become oblivious to the obvious. " 
The diversity of sound between "Misery" and "Shut Down" projects a trend found throughout the album -a trend immediately noticed with the countryesque third song "To My Own Devices." Let Your Dim Light Shine shifts gears back into the heavy rock comparable to songs on Grave Dancers Union such as "99%" and "Hopes Up." 
At the midpoint of this fourteen song concoction of musical genre jumping is the most intriguing song, "String of Pearls." In this song Pirner crea~es a storybook illustrated by the mustc and narrated by his dynamic lyrics. "He pulled over reached down I and picked up a pearl from the gut­
ter I he didn't know what to think I so he brought it home and washed it in the sink I he gave the pearl to Sister Mary Teresa I who could not accept it 
I.so she gave it to Lisa I a young pros­tztute who was missing a pearl on the necklace that broke last night." 
Pirner is accompanied by solid har­monies throughout this song whose trademark is its strange guitar and drum interludes. 
As diversity is the central focus on this album, the final song is, in a sense, an appeal by Pirner for his lat­es~ effort. Entitled "I Did My Best," this almost Neil Young sounding song complete with slide guitars and rhyth­mic acoustics solidifies Soul Asylum's sometimes second guessed talent. 
Soul Asylum's latest release does one thing for certain -it provides a medium for Pirner to shine through as a song writer. The music on Let Your Dim Light Shine is smooth and solid bu~ does not overpower Pirner's raspy lyrtcs. Together, these two qualities combine for a well balanced and impressionable album. 
Christian Stein's music reviews appear every Thursday in Accent. 

Jamiroquai's Space Age Funk 
By ROB ADAMS 
Music Editor 
Jamiroquai 
The Return ofthe Space Cowboy 
****'· 
out of five 
I
n the world of Jamiroquai. pure righteousness is not enough; pro­gressive action paves the way for a peaceful, harmonious society. The lleturn of the Space Cowboy, their lat­est release, expounds wisdom beyond the normal realm of funk music attacking such social injustices a~ gang wars, drug abuse, and the absence of freedom for many people around the world. Yet it provides con­stant merciless grooves that have be­come their trademark. 
Jamiroquai's debut, Emergency on Planet Earth, arrived in 1993 and confused fans as well as critics. Too much time was spent wondering about why lead singer Jay Kay sound­ed like Stevie Wonder, how these English blokes had so much soul, or when funk had developed a conscious, and not enough time was spent con­centrating on how good the music actually was. 
With Cowboy, all of that confusion should end. Jamiroquai has cast their own line into the ocean of soul, devel­oping a unique sound through ex­ploratory, far-out meshes of rhythm and blues, jazz. and psychedelic. Jay Kay has become a space cowboy; his vocal styling provide an image of him spinning, singing, talking, laughing, humming, and dancing. Acting as a spokesperson sent from some higher ground, Jay Kay comments clearly and beautifully whether the topic is his shame for his ancestry or his love for someone he has not yet met. " With soft and serene organ taps, 

Space Cowboy" opens the album with a prophetic message and a groovy feel which doesn't let up until the last note is played. Although different textures change the pace of the song at various points, Jay Kay's vocal gymnastics adjust perfectly in any transition phase. In the meantime, lyrics like "This. is the return/of the space cow­boy/ Interplanetary/ good vibe zone" meander through the thick, bass­heavy chorus, bringing to light the notion that brilliance can be simple. 
Actually two songs in one, "Just Another Story" is a nine-minute fable, stretching the boundaries of free-form rhy!hm to a domain of previously undtscovered territory. The first part of the song features the energy and drama of a 70's cop flick car chase, a psychedelic joyride of low, unadulter­ated bass, climactic keyboards, and Jay Kay's careful, concerned vocals. However, little foreshadowing pre­pares the change which occurs not even three minutes into the song, as it becomes a stomp of wah-wah pedal posturing and grinding space bass. Jay Kay sings of a "speed freak king of amphetamine" and how this type of tragedy has become "just another story." 
"Everybody's talking about the kids/The kids got funky soul and groove emotion/But if you don't give the kids the chance to use itffhey're always more than likely to abuse it," sings Jay Kay on "The Kids," an anthem which would have been per­fect for the soundtrack of the movie with the same name. Registering at some 150 beats per minute, "The Kids" is to funk in 1995, what "Smells like Teen Spirit" was to punk in 1991: 
a. r~surgen~e of music in a new yet similar medmm featuring a hardcore rhythm and an impossible-to-miss message to and for today's youth. 
Jamiroquai is not always so serious or dramatic, however. Saucy, disco­flavored numbers appear such as "Mr. Moon" and "Scam." Their first actual attempt at a ballad is a huge success with "Morning Glory," a song made as lovely as the name suggests with harps, slow bass. and gorgeous per­cussion effects. "Journey to Arnhemland" is an instrumental which seems to suggest: "For best results, dim the lights, turn on the lava lamp, and light some incense." 
The Return of the Space Cowboy, Jamiroquai's second in an eight­album deal with Sony. makes it hard to imagine what they can come up with next. With only two of the twelve songs clocking in at less than five min­utes, Jamiroquai does just what their name suggests-and they do it well. 
Rob Adams' music reviews appear every Thursday in Accent. 

• CYBERSURF 
Working theWWW 
O
ne of the 
beauties • 
· of work­
ing in the cor­
porate world 
this past sum­
mer was 
Internet 
access when I 
would other­
wise have had 
to suffer Net 
By Aaron Villaruz withdrawal. 
Accent WriterSimilar to Angela Bassett in "The Net," I have come to spend an awful lot of time on-line and feel empty when I don't have access to my digital haven, the Internet. I know, I know, it's a sorry existence, but these days everybody is out ther~. ~nd m.ore and more frequently the Internet IS mvading our lives. I just want to be able to say I was there before a lot of peo­ple. 
Anyway, back to the corporate world. Being a cog in the giant corporate machine that is a Big 6 Accounting Firm does have it's perks, among them free lunches once in a while and free Net access and e-mail if you bother the MIS Department long enough. Of course, not being an educational institution, most firms these days still rely on lame Web Bro~sers like Lynx to get around, which only provide you with textual information. There is, though, one advantage to all of this. It al­ways looks like you are doing work, since there is nothing but text flashing by on the screen at all times. This is key when the Manager comes around. 
One of my personal favorite things to do when I was surfing at work was to get my Soap updates. Lacking a TV in the old cubi­cle, I. had to rely on up to the minute updates provtded by someone with a trusty comput­er, a TV, and a lot of spare time. I am not kidding. There is a person out there who watches the Soaps and updates them every few minutes or so. 
Anot~er thing to do at work, after you are done With all of your duties, of course, is to MUD. A MUD (Multi-User Dimension) is like Cheers to ~e. I pop in, everybody says hello, and we grtpe about our day to day problems. The MUD I frequent is called DragonFire, and as the name would imply it is a place where dragons and evil creatures still roam the earth. So when I say day to day prob­lems, it's things like, "That dragon is a hell to kill" or "My armor didn't protect me from the surprise gargoyle attack." 
A slave to mass media, I would also always frequent the movie and music resources. If you ~re a me?Jber of any of those annoying Mustc Clubs (I.e. Columbia House or BMG) there is a database out there that can give' you the order code for any album it distrib­utes. I also frequently used the Cardiff Movie Database to browse for the release dates for those much anticipated summer block­busters, like Waterworld and Batman Forever. 
My most favorite thing to do at work, how­ever, was e-mail. E-mail, e-mail, e-mail. I would e-mail my roommate. I would e-mail my friends at home. I would e-mail my friends at ND going to Summer School. Heck, I would have e-mailed the Pope in Rome if he was on-line. Having to work for the sum­mer in an unfamiliar city, I lived to hear from the ones I loved. 
The corporate world is not a fun place. That's why they call it "work." But with luck you ca~ find a berth where the Net is at your fmgertips. Ask about Net access at inter­~ews. They eat it up. Really. If only The Ftrm knew all my furious keystrokes this summer were actually attempts to flee that Fire-Breathing Dragon that lurks in the Bard Forest. 
Aaron Villaruz threw this article together at 3 in the morning at the DeBartolo comput­er cluster, where he works and maintains his Homepage at http:llwww.nd.edu/ avillaru. Most links mentioned in this page can be found on this Homepage. 
-
-
-
-. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2
Classifieds 
cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
page 14 The Observer •SPORTS Thursday, August 31, 1995 

NOTICES II '======------'  FORRENT  Please call Kathleen at 4843. Need 2 Texas GAs. Desperate and Wealthy!  HELP! I NEED 2 TICS FOR VAN­DERBILT-SEPT.16 PLEASE CALL  NOTRE DAME season tickets wanted. Top dollar paid. 674-7625 (24 hrs.)  HAVE TICKETS FOR USC AND WANT TO MAKE A TRADE..... Call Tom at: 4-3893  
und parents: B & B football week­ NICELY DECORATED ROOMS  Call 1-800-223-2440 Ext.4370  AMY 634-3812  I need Northwestern tickets.  
ends, 2 miles to campus, call219­ FOR RENT. F-BALL WKNDS,  $$$$$$  Please call Bryan  2 navy GAs needed  
277-6832  REASON. RATES, GREAT  NEED 2 WASHINGTON GAs.  272 4249  -tina 273-3174  
ATMOS., CONTIN. BRKFST, 2  need vanderbilt tickets  Melissa X1471  
ENJOY THURS 8/31 WITH JOHN  MILES OFF-CAMPUS. CALL KIM  GA's or married student tix  Need 2 GA's & 3 Stud tix 4 Texas  Help! I need 2 or 3 Texas GA'sl  
KENNEDY OF SEAMAISIN ORIGI­ 277-8340.  call Dan@ 273-4780  Will trade 2 '96 Daytona 500 tickets  game -Reggie x4297  Kevin x1883  
NAL & IRISH SONGS, TUNES,  for 4 ND/TX tickets. 904-947-6726  
STORIES. $3 COVER.  2 BDRM HOME FOR RENT NEAR  from 9to5.  
MIDWAY TAVERN DANCE HALL  CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES  need TEXAS, USC, BC tkts  NEED GA OR STUDENT TICKETS  HEY  
810 W 4TH  272-6306  call Mike x4429  Need 2 NO/Texas tickets. Call 904­ TO USC AND TEXAS HOME  Need Vandy and Texas tickets  
MISH  239-8289 after 5 pm.  GAMES!! WILL PAY GOOD$$$$  call 239-7959 ask for Mike  
2 BLKS SO OF 100 CTR  HOMES FOR RENT NEAR NO  CALL CHRIS @ 239·8922  
255-0458  232-2595  I HAVE USC TIX  Will trade 2 BC GA's for 2 Texas  Married Student Tix for Sale.  
NEEDID  Will trade 2 GAs plus stadium park­ GA's. 815-282-9503  271-2977  
ROOM WITH KITCHEN, UTILI­ ing pass for 4 Texas or BC GAs.  TRADE-2 BCNandblt GAs for 2  
FANTASY NFL FOOTBALL  TIES, ETC. $250/MO. CLOSE TO  Call Matt W(312)704-7704  Need GA's & Student Tx tor USC.  USC/Texas GAs-Call219-273­ 
LEAGUE STARTING I Sign-ups on  CAMPUS IN SAFE NEIGHBOR­ H(312)549-0825  Call Rich at 277-4755  8379  Need 2 Vandy GA's  
FRI evening  CALL 289-2804  HOOD. CALL PAUL 232-2794.  Please call Jon @ X1103  
NEED 4 NORTHWESTERN GAs  I have 2 GA Northwestern tickets  Need 1 Texas, will trade 1  
SAVE THIS AD  n d events  Physician doing the buying- that I would like to trade for 2 GA  Northwestern  
WEEKEND ROOMS FOR  rooms near nd b& b $60  BIG BUCKS OFFERED!  TEXAS tickets. Jill. 273-0211.  Karen X4285  I NEED NORTHWESTERN GA's  
N.D./S.M.C. VISITORS.  219-272-9260  Call Ryan at 233-5273.  PAUL X5113 -PLEASE!!!  
5. MIN. FROM CAMPUSES  *Also need BC student tix.  OSU TIX-I need 4. Will trade 4  
- 219-277-2388  Lafayette Square: Must sub-lease.  DESPERATELY need one ticket to  Purdue tix plus large sums of cash  NEED TICKETS AND PRAYERS.  
200/ mo. great cond, males only.  Need G.A. Tix to NO-Texas. Call  the NORTHWESTERN game for  for tickets to see Irish crush  TEXAS GA'S CALL SARAH X4916  
ILOST & FOUND I  Call Bryce ASAP 287-8863  Joe at 287-4561 before 10 p.m.  my sister!!!!  Call Brian at x3061  Buckeyes. If you can hlllp, call x3349.  I NEED BC GA'S & STUD TIXI  
Furnished Room.  Clean, attractive.  $$$$$  SET OF MARRIED STUDENT TIX  CALL JOHN @ 234-5771  
L9st two-tonE!d, gpldbracelet with  Kitchen privileges. Quiet neighbor­ Need4 BC tix  for sale. $350 obo. Call 277-3864  LOST: Two tix to Te.xas Gamel!  
clasp on Mon. 8-28. Great senti­ hood. 2 mi. to N.D.  Will trade Navy  Can you help me find them?  NEED TWO GA'S  
mental value. Considerable award  $200 per month. Call 282-2576.  (parents weekend)  HELP WANTED:  My old NO roommate is driving out  for VANDERBILT  
offered. Please call634-3177. No  Joe x1728  all the way from NYC. Please help!  
questions asked.  LIVE IN A GOOD NEIGHBOR­ I will do anything for USC GAs.  Will pay big$$$$ Call KATY at  call4-3103  
HOOD 3BR FURNISHED HOME 5  I need 1 GA for the Northwestern  Money no object.  634-4410.  
Lost a buch of keys somewhere on  MINUTE WALK TO NO BULLA AD  Game. Call Brian at 4-1570  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
campus on Saturday. It has a name  2773097  Brian x3692  NEED 4 Texas GA's Chris x4010  
tag in the shape of California  NEED NO-TEXAS GA  Texas Boy needs Texas GAs. Call  
license plate that says Kris. If found please contact 4-1697.  FOR SALE  OR STUDENT TIX. CALL DAVE 609-779-3876.  ??Need Tix?? I have 1 Texas, 1 USC, and  Miguel at X3336.  I NEED 2 BC GA'SI!I CALL KELLY x4801  
2 Navy!! Taking best offers.  
1990 Honda CRX Sl Yellow 5­ NO DAD NEEDS TEXAS, USC &  Callnowx4121  HELP!!!  I NEED OSU TIXIII  TRADE -2 Navy GA'S tor 2  
•••••••••••****LOST •••••••••••••••  Speed 59K $6950 Firmlll277-9276  PURDUE GA'S.  Willing to pay $ or trade for PUR­ Vandblt. Ga'S call4-2744  
TWO KEYES ON RING IN  219-422-6088.  Need any home GA's  DUE or USC GA's. call Dawn  
STEPAN FIELD DURING THE  Waterbed super single size with  call Steve@ x1103  x3793  Two entire married student ticket  
PICNIC DINNER 8/23  book headboard and twelve draw­ SELLING MARRIED STUD TIX  booklets for sale (i.e total of 4  
••••• PLEASE CALL 634-4846 •••••  ers. Includes black satin sheets and  BOOKLETS 232-4827  2 Married Stud Tixs 2 Sale.  NEED 3 NORTHWESTERN STUD.  booklets). Call273-8938. Buy now,  
bedspread with a drain and fill kit.  Call 287-2093  TICKS.  MATI @288-3823  relax for the rest of the semester.  
WANTED  $200.00 288-3366  •••• NEED 2 BC STUDENT TIX ••• Call Dave 277-4755  NEED 4 USC GAS  NEED STUD TICKS APPLICAT. OR WHOLE BOOKS .. @ 288-3823  SELLING 2 MARRIED STUDENT  
USED LSAT BOOKS  BIG MONEY!  BOOKLETS 340 OBO  
-­ WANTED: Saint Mary's sports writ­ers and photographers. You do not  Are you taking the LSAT this Fall? I f you want to save some money  I need two GA football tickets for  RUTHx3741  Have cash, need NW student ticket, let's trade. Beth 273-2089  271 19 98  
have to commit on a full-time basis.  and buy some used LSAT study  Northwestern and for any home  NEED TEXAS GAs-WILL PAY$$  
Call Caroline at  books call634-3397.  These  football games.  Please call  FOR  SALE  TICKETS!!!!  I NEED TXS GA'S MEGAN X3890  please call Charlie x2243  
284-4349 or come by room 222 in  books were used this summer, and  Dawn 4990  G.A. S  ALL  GAMES  
Holy Cross Hall.  know what it takes to do well  •••••••  272-72331111111111  NEED 1 STDNT TCK BOOK  
634-3397  STUDENT OR GA NEEDED FOR  WILL PAY$-CALL ALEX 287­ FOR SALE: 1 SOPHMORE  
OFF CAMPUS?  NEED MONEY?  USED LSAT BOOKS  BC ... WILL PAY LOTS$$$$  Married Student TIX For Sale  6743 A.S.A.PI  TICKET APPLICATION!!  
Established campus band looking  CALL4-4828  Call271-8401  Call Soon and it will be YOURS­ 
for place to play. Call Jerry x1197  Carla 284-4151  
USED TEXTBOOKS-UP TO 40%  1111@11@ @!@!@@ @1#$#@$$%$@  I need one Vanderbilt GA and two  NEED 1 NORTHWESTERN  
CHILDCARE  OFF-2 DAY SERVICE-NO­ Navy GA's. I t you can help me call  STUDENT OR GA TIX. CALL ALEX  
NEED RESPONSIBLE PERSON TO CARE FOR 6 YR. OLD CHILD  HOWARD STREET-233-2342. OPEN 7DAYS  Larry needs youll He needs your tickets tool  Heather x4412  OR CHRIS 287-6743  PERSONAL  
IN MY HOME. N.D.-ST. MARY'S  PANDORA'S BOOKS  Looking for Navy G.A.s and VAndy  
AREA. RELIABLE CAR NECES­ GAs or student tix.  CAMPUS ORGY  $5.50 HAIRCUTS  
SARY. MON-FRI,  By local1982 ND Grad  Call 634-3593 if you can help him  Need 2-3 Northwestern GA's  
2:45-5:00 (OR SOME DAYS).  1984 BMW 325E Blue 5speed sun­ out.  X1426  VITO'S BARBER SHOP  
WAGE NEGOTIABLE.  roof + all power options  !#@#$@$%#@ @#@@##@@@#I  I need Northwestern tickets! 2, 3,  1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST  
CALL 271-8224 EVENINGS.  High mileage, looks & runs great  NEED 3 NORTHWESTERN AND  or 4 student or GA'sl Please call  SOUTH BEND • 233-4767  
$4900 Call 299-0680  5NAVYGA'S  x4420  
Looking for a SuperChampionship  CALL SCOT X2011  WE CAN'T EXIST WITHOUT YOU!  
tennis player to go play a good  THE PERFECT CARI1985  Need two GA's for Northwestern  GA FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE  
match. Call Natasha at 4-3490.  HONDA CRX, BLUE, 5-SPEED,  so my little brothers can go to the  CALL 2719464 OR 2887162  Fight the apathy that seems to run  
GREAT GAS, LOW MAINT. $2400  game. Willing to pay $$$$  $$$NEED 1 N'WESTRN GA$$$  rampant in this community of Notre  
BRIDGETS IS LOOKING FOR  CALL 271-8280  Jon @ 634-1389  FOR UNCLE IN TOWN  Dame/Saint Mary's/Holy Cross. If  
CAMPUS BANDS TO PLAY-DROP  CALL SEAN x2036  Two Ohio State Tix. Cheap.  you have a gripe, issue, concern,  
OFF DEMO TAPE TUES-SAT 8:00 TO 3:00A.M. GIVE TO RICH OR  TICKETS  I need two GA's to the USC game. My high-school friend is threatening  4340  etc. SHARE it. Let YOUR voice be heard.  
CHRISTY  never to speak to me again unless I  ALUM -needs 2 or 4 ND/TEX ­ I NEED NORTHWESTERN STUD­ 
find some this weeki Call 4-4889 If  GA's. Will trade 2 ND/NW plus $50  TICKETS OR GA'S. CALL MIKE  The Observer's Viewpoint  
A DEVOTED IRISH FAN NEEDS  you can help!  tor 2 or will pay $100 each. Call JC  AT 273·1718. ..******--********  Department exists as a service to  
Macri's Deli in downtown South  GA'S TO ANY/ALL  or Barry 815-633-7193  you. You make the section what It  
Bend is now hiring for all  HOME/AWAY GAMES.  Need Texas GAtor Texan sis, ND  NEED 2 NW TICKETS  is. We need you.  
positions. Looking for reliable,  219-232-0061,24 HAS.  '94 It's her Bday. She has$$  PLEASE SELL ME YOUR STU­ Call Liz or Sue at 4544  
hard working people in return  Call Stacy x1319  DENT TIX BOOKLET AND/OR  FIGHT THE APATHY. SUBMIT!  
for a fun work atmosphere and  YOUR TEXAS TIX (STUD/GA). I'LL  PLEASE help me outl  
flexible schedules.  Apply in  TICKET-MART, INC.  EVEN THROW IN A FREE BEVER­ I need GA's tor any home games.  JAZZERCISE  
person, 2-5p.m., 214 N. Niles  WANTED  I NEED TEXAS AND USC GA'Si  AGE OF YOUR CHOICE I  CALL Noelle x4814  
Ave.  GA'S FOR ANY/ALL  PLEASE CALL SUZV AT X3729.  TIM 291-1353  ITS A FUN WAY TO GET FIT  
- BABYSITTER NEEDED TO CARE  HOME/AWAY ND GAMES. BUY*SELL*TRADE  4 TEXASTIX  I would DIE for up to 4  Need 1 Student Ticket for the Northwestern game. Please call  &STAY THAT WAY. VERY ClOSE TO CAMPUS.  
F~R 2-AND 5-YEAR OLD IN  (219) 232-0058-24 HAS.  $30 per ticket  UWTIX  273-5818.  CALL 277-0111 FOR MORE INFO.  
HOME LOCATED 10 MI. SO. OF  Chris x1724  callx4072  
NO. ANY BLOCK OF TIME  I need ticket for Northwestern game  
BETWEEN 9:30-5:00 MON.-FRI.  BUSINESSMAN  NEEDS 2or4  PLEASE help a Senior In need!  tor my little brother.  If can help call  Hey, you! I know you're interested  
TRANSPORTATION A MUST.  ND SEASON TICKETS ANY OR  For ANY Vandy, USC, or Navy tix,  Married tickets tor sale by game or  Keith at 3482.  in Notre Dame Student Players.  
CALL 299-0051.  ALL GAMES.  OHIO.ST.  you will be compen$atedl  by booklet call x0623  Our first meeting of the year is com­ 
andWASHINGTON A MUST  For sale set of married student tix  ing up soon.  Mark your calendars:  
$1000 FUNDRAISER  PLEASE HELP IF YOU CAN ........  Nick 3372  CAN Y'ALL HELP OUT?  books. Call and make an offer  
Fraternities, Sororities &  2771659  NEED TEX TIX-GA OR STDNT  @237-0072  (9/18/95, 6 p.m., Notre Dame  
Student Organizations.  In DESPARATE need of 1 student  TOP DOLLAR PAID  Room, LaFortune).  
You've seen credit card  I NEED TIXS TO ALL HOME  ticket or GA for N-western game.  CALL KELLI X4044  DESPARATELY NEED 3 G.A.  
fundraisers before, but  GAMES.272-6306  Call Hank at ext. 1716  TICKETS TO ANY HOME GAME  All are welcome. Keep the faith  
you've never seen the  NEED 2 NORTHWESTERN GA'S  FOR MY FAMILYIII  and love alive. Be a part of the  
Citibank fundraiser that pays  1 G.A. TICKET NEEDED FOR B.C.  Need Student Booklets and GAs for  FOR FRIENDS COMING IN FROM  $$$$$ PLEASE CALL LIZ x2776  action. I'll see you there.  
$5.00 per application.  GAME 271-1289  every game.  HOME. CALL JOE 4-1846.  
Call Donna at  Call277-4755  If you want a treat,  
1-800-932-0258 ext. 65.  NEED TEXAS GA'S.  I HAVE 1 NORTHWESTERN  2 GAs4 Sale:  check out the skinny mirror  
Qualified callers receive a  CALL ALISON 1-800-431-0010,  NEEDED: 2 GA's for USC  STUDENT TICKET TO SELL.  NW,Vandy,UT,Navy  in the bathroom of the first floor  
FREE camera.  EXT. 8796.  call4x4876  CALL 288-9158  271-2837.  of Breen Phillips (south door).  
- 
My wife will kill me.  Need set of  Student needs  I have Northwestern Stud Tix for  Don't bother the girls of 307 Farley  
WANT ATHLETIC PERSON FOR  Married Student tix.  Brett 272­ 2 tickets for USC game  ND ALUMNI NEEDS 2 FOOTBALL  sale  -C.K. 1-6696  between the hours of 1 and 2 p.m.  
PERSONAL TRAINER AND MAS­ 7223  for DOMESICK parents  SEASON TICKETS FOR PERSON­ They're on assignment!  
SAGE THERAPIST. WILL TRAIN.  please call Bonnie at 634-3397  AL USE PAY WELL 2773097  NEED TICKET FOR NORTH­ 
219-462-8943  Need 2 student tix or ga's for  with your tickets.  WEST GAME, PLEASE, PLEASE,  
Northwestern. Call x4220.  PLEASE!  CALL SARA AT 41328.  Hey Jimmy McKalelll  
Part-time, afternoon babysitter  4 GAs need for Vanderbilt, 273­ wanted: GAs for TEXAS and USC  We're still waiting! II  
d  - needed for 6·rnonth old in Knollwood area; Flexible hrs. Call  Wealthy Alum needs tix for all home games. Brett 272-7223  3016  reward: BIG BUCKS!! call x2339  STD. TX. BOOKLET  Are we that hard to satisfy? We're desperate!  
271-1456  \  I have 2 N-Western Tix(married  4 SALE (#3959)  Room 722  
Desperately need USC tickets!I!  stud tix) to offer. Call271-8648  Need N-Western tix, stud or GA.  
Need a responsible student to  3 GA's or 2 GA's and 1 Student  Call Tim @ x1201.  PLEASE!!  IF YOUR BAND WILL BE PLAYING  
babysit a toddle( in my home (2.3  Please call Chris at 288-7843.  MARRIED STUDENT TIX 4 SALE!  THIS WEEKEND, LET THE FOLKS  
mi.  north of ND). Times flexible.  1 PAIR. CALL AND LEAVE  HELP!! I need 1 NW Stu or GA  AT ACCENT KNOW!  
Please call277-1037.  I need 2 Texas tickets and as  ME$$AGE.  HIGHE$T OFFER  Elaine 42389  I HAVE GA TICKETS FOR TEXAS,  631-4540  
many tix for Vanderbilt as possible.  GET$ 'EM.  271-1531  VANDY AND NAVY .... IF YOU  


Friday, April 28, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 

•NBA 
As first day of voting passes, future of basketball unsure 
By WENDY E. LANE Associated Press 
Some arriving in limousines, NBA players around the coun­try went to the polls Wednes­day in a referendum on a pro­posed labor agreement that will determine the fate of the union and possibly the coming sea­son. 
Players, locked out since July 
1. could either vote to continue their union, and in effect accept the labor deal, or abolish it, and send the labor dispute into federal court. 
Hesults of the vote, conducted at 47 National Labor Relations Board offices Wednesday and Sept. 7. will be announced Sept. 12 in New York. 
NBA commissioner David Stern has said if decertification wins, the lockout will delay the start of the season. 
Regardless of which side they were on, players said their chief concern was playing on Nov. 3 as scheduled. 
"For 12 years, there was never a question about what I'd do in October," when training camp begins, said Atlanta's Craig Ehlo, who also kept his vote a secret. 
It was unknown exactly how many of the approximately 420 eligible players showed up to cast their secret ballots. 
NBA deputy commissioner Russ Granik said his reports indicated a "large" turnout, something the league and the union believed would help them get the simple majority needed to decide the issue. 
But, prior to the balloting, the group backing decertification was confident it had enough votes to prevail. 
While some players said they struggled to make sense of all the conflicting information and the complex provisions of the deal, they all understood the fan dissatisfaction that could result if games were lost to the labor dispute. 
"It's just what we saw in baseball and hockey," said Marty Conlon, a free agent who played last season for Milwau­kee. "If basketball drops the ball here, it could be danger­ous." 
"I'm ready to play ball," said Boston's Xavier McDaniel, who supports decertification. "The commissioner is the one locking us out. The players are ready to play." 
In Detroit, Pistons guard Joe Dumars shared a limo ride to the NLRB office with team­mates Terry Mills and Mark Macon, along with Dallas' Doug Smith. New Jersey's Derrick Coleman, voting at the same time, said all four went for the deal. 
''I'm for the union," said Coleman, among the league's highest paid players last year. "I think we all should settle down and vote for the union. I think it's been good to us all these years. 
"We can compromise. We can't get everything we want, but I think it's a good proposal for us. I think we just should learn a lot from what happened with baseball." 

Jock Strip 
continued from page 24 
our close friends and roommates will have their opening sports games of the fall season while we lay nested on the couch, aloof with our football booklets in hand. 
What's wrong with this picture? Sure, we can attend class tired and dis­oriented after a night of camping out for football tickets. but on Sunday we will be too hung-over to attend our room­mate's opening soccer game. 
Last spring when I began my position as the sports editor of Saint Mary's, I had no idea of the task I was attempting to conquer. Not only was I about to face competition for coverage with legendary Notre Dame sports, but I was also stunned at the realization that the stu­dents of Saint Mary's were not aware that their college does, in fact, have sports teams. 
I bet that you did not know that the Saint Mary's softball team completed one of their best seasons in history last spring with high rankings in both the Central Region Ranking Poll and the National Softball Coach's Association. 
I also wonder if anyone acknowledges the fact that in last March, sophomore Allison Smith became the first Saint Mary's swimmer to ever qualify for the NCAA championships. Out of approxi­mately 2000 NCAA Division III swim­mers, she finished 9th in the 1650, earning her All-American status for the event. 
This news may strike you as odd that you have not heard the roar of it before, but face it-it does not matter. You probably weren't even aware that Saint Mary's had softball or swimming teams. 
The apathy is running rapid. I am aware that the sports teams at Saint Mary's are, indeed, in Division III. I also recognize the fact that the women who are competing in the sports events at Saint Mary's were not recruited by our college, nor is our college making any money off of the success of its sports teams But are these valid• reasons to ignore them? 
Together we must form an alliance and fight to make Saint Mary's sports important communal events. Although I can't bring the Irish guard over for the events, Angela parking lot has plenty of room for shot gunning races. 
So let us begin the fight for our ath­letes. Attendance to the events are free, seating is on a first-come, first-serve basis, and there are no shirtless drunk men behind you who insist on singing the Notre Dame fight song off key in your ear. 
Friends, I have seen the athletes at Saint Mary's. I have seen them practice, prepare, and play. I have glimpsed their striving forces. I have witnessed their adrenaline surges. I have seen the looks of dedication on their faces. Their sport is their happiness. 
Therefore, I refuse to believe that any other athlete of any other sports team at any other college deserves more admiration than the athletes at Saint Mary's College. 
The sports at Saint Mary's are excit­ing. Please, take the time this year to attend Saint Mary's sporting events. Lift your torch to the'se women and give them the respect that they deserve. 
I would like to close with a few great reasons to attend the Saint Mary's soc­cer game on Sunday. First, you'll get a great tan. Next, you can see how cute Brigid Keyes looks in a do-rag. Third, you might get to meet a cool dude named Solomon from Africa. Fourth, Angela Athletic Field contains a grassy meadow in which your liquid diet from the night before would fertilize respec­tively, and the most important reason: I guarantee everyone that you'll never see a group of 23 Saint Mary's girls so anx­ious to rip apart another group of girls again. 
WHO: YOU!! 
WHAT: • MUSIC ALL DAY 
• PICNIC-ND STUDENTS WELCOME WITH CO-EX 
• 
TYEDYE 

• 
TATTOOS 
• 
MAKE YOUR OWN MUSIC VIDEO 
• MUCH MUCH MORE!!!!!! 

STUDENT 
ACTIVITIES ''' 
B 0 A R D 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 

t .o I f i \ · J 1 ' 1 I ' '". "~ .. -i. J' tr J 1 .f I C •f J of v 1 I ' · · ,. o 

page 16 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, August 31, 1995 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALl 
Burkett shuts down Cubs 
Colorado rocks Pitts burgh 6-0 
By KAREN TESTA the season and 1Oth in 13 Assoeiated Press games, to break up the shutout. By ALAN ROBINSON Wagner, and the moves paid off. 
Until then, the only runner to MIAMI 
reach second base was Ozzie John Burkett took a shutout 
Timmons who doubled in the into the ninth inning and fin­
second. i~hed 'Ylth a five-hitter Frank Castillo (8-8) took the Wednesday night as the 
loss for the Cubs, who ended Marlins beat the Cubs 4-1. 
the Marlins' 14-game home Burkett (12-11) walked three­
winning streak Tuesday night. and stuck out five as he set a 
He allowed seven hits and four record for victories for the 3­
runs in seven innings. year-old franchise. 
Burkett scored the game'sGreg Colbrunn drove in three 
first run in the third when he runs for the Marlins, including 
came in on Terry Pendelton's his 20th home run of the sea­
two-out, bases-loaded walk. son. 
Colbrunn extended his hittingSammy Sosa homered with 
streak to 11 games with a sin­one out in the ninth, his 30th of 
gle to left to make it 3-0. 
After losing II, Astros back on winning track 
By TOM SALADINO Associated Press ATLANTA 
Shane Reynolds allowed six hits over eight innings Wednesday night and the Houston Astros won their sec­ond straight game after losing a team-record )1, beating the Atlanta Braves 2-0. 
Reynolds (9-9) snapped a two-game losing streak, strik­ing out five and walking two. Jeff Tabaka and Todd Jones worke·d the ninth with Jones getting the last out for his 13th save. 
The Astros started the night one-half game behind the Col­orado Rockies in the wild-card race and beat the Braves for the second straight night, the first time they won two in a row since Aug. 12-13. 
The Braves, shut out for the third time this season, and de­spite losing their third straight, lowered their magic number in 
BEGINNING SEPTEMBER 19T" 
INSTITUTE 
an opportunity for outstanding freshmen and sophomores to a~tend a series of leadership development seminars 

Applications must be returned to the Student Activities Office by September 5. For an application and/or more information, contact the Student Activities Office, at 631-7308, 315 LaFortune Student Center. 
the NL East to 16 when Philadelphia lost 4-1 to San Francisco. Atlanta has 29 games remaining and a 14­game lead. 
The Astros took a 2-0 lead in the third off John Smoltz (10­6). Ricky Gutierrez struck out leading off the inning, but reached on a wild pitch. He stole second and scored on a double by Brian Hunter, who took third on an error by left fielder Ryan Klesko. Hunter scored on a sacrifice fly by John Cangelosi. 
Left fielder Cangelosi pre­served the shutout in the sixth when he threw out Klesko, who had doubled, at the plate on a single by Javier Lopez. 
Smoltz, who had not lost since July 12 (3-0 with five no­decisions), allowed six hits, walked four and struck out eight in seven innings. Smoltz has 158 strikeouts, second in the league behind Hideo Nomo of Los Angeles. 
Tuesday nights from 7:00pm to 8:30pm in the Notre Dame Room 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH 
Ellis Burks picked up Colorado's slumping offense with a three-run homer, and rookie Brian Rekar pitched eight shutout innings Wednesday night to lead the Rockies past the Pittsburgh Pirates 6-0. 
Rekar (4-2), winless in five starts since July 29, allowed seven hits before Steve Reed fmished up the Rockies' first shutout this season. They are the last team in the majors to throw a shutout this season. Their last nine-inning shutout was last June 24. 
The Pirates have lost seven of eight. 

Manager Don Baylor reshuffled his batting order after the Rockies were nearly no-hit Tuesday nights by Pirates 13-game loser Paul 
Philly loses 9th straight in Candlestick 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO 

If it's a day game at Candle­stick Park, go ahead and put another win in the books for William VanLandingham. 
VanLandingham won again with that scenario Wednesday, pitching the San Francisco Gi­ants past the Philadelphia Phillies 4-1. 
VanLandingham (5-3) im­proved to 9-0 in 16 lifetime starts in San Francisco. He is 11-0 during his career in 22 day games, home or away. 
. ''I'm not a day person, be­cause I stay up late at night anyways," he said. "I really don't know why, because I do like to sleep in, too." 
The Phillies began the day tied with Colorado for the wild­card lead. Philadelphia has lost five straight at Candlestick this season and is 0-9 at the sta­dium since April21, 1994. 
"Day games at Candlestick Park are not a pitcher's par­adise," Baker said. "It's a smaller park in the daytime, especially in the early innings before the wind starts blowiing 

in." 

Fortunately for the Giants, the wind was blowing in just in time to hold back what looked like it might be a game-tying, three-run homer in the ninth by Lenny Webster off reliever Hod 
lt-'. , rt4 't·
'-., ~ou:n never guess the \:.~_ ';· surpnse at t:hc heart: of... 
¥'"'"'·. "AN EXUBERANTLY fUNNY CINDERELLA STORY!" 

·-Pclct Tu'--tt'\, ROI.USG STO~l: 
. ' 
.· ­
.•. •
·:i "Two THUMBS UP! 


Fr~sh and unpredictable!" 
..>l>l,[l :1: tOlR l 
"ENORMOUSLY FUNNY!" 
-Kt-m!ct'h l"ur;an. 
U.~ ASl.;U•.~ JJ~if.~ 

'""'Riel's~1ng
shes not JUSt gett•ng rnarned, shes getting even. 
liDID -l=~-,.:.~,a:-:~~• ..:;.,-"'*' 
~.--_!_ ,....,.~ Friday--7 & 9:30 PM Sunday--1 & 3 PM At Carroll Auditorium $2 Admission 
JJ[esd for the lfiu~ APPALACHIA SEMINAR ~ 
Oct. 15-20, 1995 
The Appalachia Seminw durin~ll Break presents a unique service-learning opportumty. Students tra':_ej.to-vanous"S'ta 111 the Appalachta reg10n: Kentucky. West Virginia, Tet.l~~see: Ohio and Mississip . ey work at :wariei"yo~ites whtch examm~e·poltttcal, soctal. economtc and cu rces influencing the Appaia-chtmi'People. The sites focus on several issues includi~\elf-help, ~gco~~tiOJl, environmental well-being. rural health care, educatlo-ii'!t'n'd....,~e · 
relations achia:,.,JID:~~!t~;P~.¥~jcalla~,~~~2,.J;,:rsmHo-~n,on cont)cts, students expe . •cultural nclm~!i"sf;~tlla'iifi~m to'undcrstan(l and analyze the soctal forces that mfluence the ltves of the moun~people. 
THE SEMINAR: Is,, !-credit Theology course 
Involves orientation and follow-up learning classes 
Pre.>ents the opponuntty to work, laugh and learn with other volunteers 
INFO SESSION: Tuesday, August 29, 1995-7:00-7:30 P_J\1. 
(optional) 

At the Center for Social Concerns 
APPLICATIONS: 
Available at the Center 
Applications are due: Friday, Sept. 8by 5:00 P.M. 
FOR FURTHER INFORI'viATION: Timbo Hipp, 634-1141 
or Alex Andreichuk, 634-3650 
Bradley Hannon, 631-9473 
Dr. Jay Brandenberger. 6.11-529.1 


Burks, inserted into the No. 6 hole as Vinny Castilla took the night off, followed Andres Galarraga's RBI double with his 13th homer in the Rockies' four-run third against John Ericks (3-7). 
Ericks allowed four hits in six innings, but walked six while falling to 1-6 with two no-deci­sions in his last nine starts. Eric Young walked to start the third, and Larry Walker walked just ahead of Burks' drive. 
The inning before, Walker stopped an 0-for-13 slide with his 29th homer, a solo shot that was the Rockies' first homer of the series and only their second hit in 10-plus innings. Galarraga's infield single on a 3-2 pitch broke up Wagner's no-hit bid with two outs in the ninth. 
The Rockies pushed their league-leading homer total to 169. 
Beck. 
Webster's drive wound up in the glove of Barry Bonds, who caught the ball just short of the left field fence. 
"I thought. it was out when Lenny hit it, but the wind blew it back in," Philadelphia man­ager Jim Fregosi said. 
"I definitely hit it good enough to get it out of the park," Webster said. 


------------~------.-----~~.---------~~--­
page 17

Thursday, August 31, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 


Twins surprise Rangers 6-2 
Associate<! Press 
MINNEAPOLIS 
The Texas Rangers wasted a 
prime opportunity in the month 
of August. Now they must 
make it happen in September if 
they hope to be playing beyond 
Oct. 1. 
Kirby Puckett and Marty Cor­
dova homered during a five­
run rally in the eighth inning 
and the Minnesota Twins sent 
the Rangers to their fourth 
consecutive loss, 6-2 Wednes­
day. 
The loss dropped the Rangers 
into a three-way tie with 
Seattle and Milwaukee for the 
wild-card spot. The Mariners 
and Brewers both played at 
night. 
·The defeat capped a 1-6 road 
trip for the Rangers, a team 
that has never made the play­
offs. Minnesota, with a major 
league-worst 42-72 record, 
completed its first three-game 
sweep of the season and 
matched its longest winning 
streak of the year at three. 
"On the entire road trip, we 
just didn't get the job done," 
Texas manager Johnny Oates 
said. 
"The bottom line is there's 
no hitting. The hitters just 
didn't get the job done. We're 
trying too hard, no doubt in my 
mind. We've got to get the hit­
ters to relax. We're not even whacking their mistakes." 
The Rangers finished with a 15-14 August record, failing to capitalize on AL West-leading California's recent skid of nine losses in 12 games. Texas re­mains eight games behind the Angels. 
Kenny Rogers (12-7) took a four-hitter and a 2-1 lead into the eighth. But Chuck Knoblauch and Jeff Reboulet led off with singles, and Roger McDowell relieved. 
Puckett met McDowell with his 18th homer, a three-run shot that made it 4-2. Puckett set a Twins' record for runs scored in a career with 1,408, passing Harmon Killebrew. 
Pedro Munoz singled and Cordova followed with his 20th home run, most among AL rookies. 
"Rogers throws four pitches, 
all for strikes, and for the first 
five innings he made us look 
like zombies out there," Puck­
ett said. 
McDowell threw 19 pitches 
and allowed five hits, including 
the two home runs. He had al­
lowed just three homers in 68 
2-3 innings prior to Wednes­
day. 
McDowelll has now given up 
10 runs in his last 7 1-3 in­
nings, covering five appear­
ances. 
Royals move closer with 2-1 win 
By DOUG TUCKER 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. 

Mark Gubicza and Jeff Mont­gomery combined on a four-hit­ter Wednesday night and Kansas City Royals held off the Milwaukee Brewers 2-1 in a game between wild-card con­tenders. 
Henry Mercedes hit a two­out. two-run double off rookie Scott Karl in the seventh inning as the Royals won for the sixth time in seven games. 
Gubicza (10-11) took a three­hitter into the ninth inning, but left after a leadoff walk and single. 
Montgomery walked Kevin Seitzer, loading the bases with no outs. 
Dave Nilsson hit a sacrifice fly that made it 2-1 and left run­ners at first and third. But Montgomery struck out Greg Vaughn and retired Joe Oliver on a liner to left field for his 25th save. 
Gubicza beat the Brewers at home for the fifth straight time. Gubicza, the only remaining member of the Royals' 1985 World Series championship team, tied Dennis Leonard for No. 2 on the team list with 302 starts. 
When the 33-year-old right­hander struck Oliver on a breaking pitch in the fifth in­ning, he became the second Royals pitch to record 1,300 strikeouts. 
Leonard, who led the rotation in the late 1970s and early '80s, had 1,323. 
Karl (5-3). riding a four-game winning streak, and Gubicza were matching each other pitch for pitch until Joe Vitiello walked with one out in the sev­enth and rookie Brent Cookson, who earlier just missed a grand slam, singled off the pitcher's glove. 
Mercedes, one of the five rookies in the Royals' starting lineup, then delivered his dou­ble. 
The Royals came within inch­es of taking a 4-0 lead off Karl when Cookson barely missed his first major league home run in the fourth. 
He lined a 1-2 pitch down the right-field line which curled foul at the last moment. 

Mariners lose ground and Bosio 
By JIMMY GOLEN 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 

Recently promoted Matt Stairs hit a three-run double, keying a five-run seventh inning Wednesday night and leading the Boston Red Sox to a 7-6 victory over the Seattle Mariners. 
The victory by the AL East-leading Red Sox left the wild-card race tighter than ever. Seattle, Milwaukee and Kansas City are all one-half game behind Texas for the top spot. 
Seattle lost starting pitcher Chris Bosio in the first inning when he was hit in the jaw by Mike Greenwell's grounder. Bosio was taken for X­rays, which were negative, and sustained cut on his chin. 
Bobby Ayala relieved Jeff Nelson (5-2) and Stairs, called up from Triple-A Pawtucket earlier in the day, batted for Bill Haselman. 
Mike Maddux {3-1) earned the win after allow­ing one run on three hits in 3 2-3 innings of relief of Erik Hanson. Hanson, who had won five con­secutive starts, allowed five runs in 3 1-3 innings. 
Edgar Martinez and Tino Martinez hit consecu­tive hom runs in a three-run fourth that gave Seattle a -2 lead. 
After r cordi!)g his 1,000th career strikeout earlier in mning, Bosio was hit in the jaw. The ball ricocheted to Tino Martinez, who dived to tag first base with his glove to end the inning. 
Bob Wells started the second and went four innings, allowing two runs on five hits. 

15 II Large 1 Topping 

.99 
+tax 

--------------,
4 Lg. Pizzas 1 : 1 Topping on Each: 
I 
$22.99 +tax ! ! 
I I 1 Expires 10-31-95 1 1 
Toppings 

Onions • Green Pepper • Beef Pepperoni • Mushrooms Black Olives • Ham Cheddar Cheese • Hot Peppers Sausage • Bacon • Pineapple 
--------------,
Large Pizza with 1 
UNLIMITED : Toppings. : 
(No Double Toppings Please!) I 
$8.99 +tax ! 
I Expires 10-31-95 1 
Store Hours 
Sunday -Thursday 
4:30 thru Midnight 

Friday -Saturday 
4:30 thru 2:00 am 

(Open till 3:00 on football weekends) 
ADD ONS 
Twisty Bread $1.99 Coke, Diet Coke, or Sprite 6-pack $2.99 cans $.65 2-litre $1.99 1 0 pc. Buffalo Wings $3.99 HOT or BBQ 

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, August 31, 1995 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALL 
Alabama reopens investigation of athlete favors 
Monthly magazine and eleventh 
by the American Volleyball Coaches Association. continued from page 24 "I think it will a good thing for everyone. It will gain more 
BIG EAST 
prior to last season. 
media attention for the confer­
Irish head coach Debbie 
ence and Notre Dame will be
Brown looks forward to enter­
playing in a conference with a
ing the Big East as challenge 
strong schedule index," said
and a learning experience, but 
Hoenig-Mose.
remains cautious and does not 
With a record of 7-1, the Pi­
take the first place ranking for 
rates were part of a three-way
granted. 
tie for first in the conference,
"Being our first year, it will 
however, their 22-5 games won
be a little bit of a learning pro­
to games lost record and 31-4
cess," said Brown. "We have 
· record overall made them the
only played a few of the teams 
head of the Big East over Con­
and that makes it tough." 
necticut and Pittsburgh. 
"The conference's reigning 
Still, a grueling five-game
champion, Seton Hall, wel­
loss to Pitt in the conference
comes the Irish and looks to the 
championships eliminated their
addition as beneficial not only 
chances of facing the Irish in
for the Irish, but for the confer­
the NCAA tournament.
ence itself. 
Brown expects both Seton
''I'm very excited," said Pirate 
Hall and Pittsburgh, in addition 
head coach Stephanie Hoenig­
to Connecticut, to be very
Mose, "because I know they are 
competitive and challenging for 
a very good team with a good 
the Irish. 
tradition." 
But the fact that the Irish
The addition of the Irish to 
does not know what to expect
the conference also looks to 
from nearly all the teams in the 
gain more exposure an already 
conference makes them all big
strong conference due to the 
opponents for the Irish. 
strength of the Irish volleyball 
The first Big East match for
program and the national me­the Irish will be on September
dia attention that it draws. 
30 when the team will travel to
The Irish were ranked sev­
the nation's capital to face the
enth pre-season by Volleyball 
Georgetown Hoyas. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applicationsfor the following paid positions: 
Day Editor 
to work from about 
1:00 to 4:00 on Tuesdays & Fridays 
and 
Typist 
call Rob Adams 
STUDENTS! Get $4 off "The Shirt '95" at 631-5303 ifinterested with coupon included with your student football 
tickets. 
The Associated Press re­for players with finance compa­Sutherland said he also made ported earlier this month that nies so they would be approved payments for two other players Sutherland claimed he has sold for loans. Sutherland said he but could not find the paper­thousands of dollars worth of guaranteed loans for only "two work. merchandise to current and or three" other customers dur­Despite being a Crimson Tide former Alabama football and ing seven years in business. fan, Sutherland said he went basketball players on credit The AP reviewed documents public with his claims because without being paid. showing overdue debts ranging his business is suffering and 
Sutherland has since told from $140 for a football player needs the money. some media outlets he was mis­to $1,164 for a basketball star, He said school officials quoted. He made his original both of whom have completed angered him by failing to make charges in three separate inter­their eligibility at Alabama. players pay up. views with two AP reporters. The documents indicate Officials at Alabama said they 
Sutherland, a self-described Sutherland or his company have been aware of Suther­"diehard Alabama fan," said he made loan payments for four land's claims since at least last routinely guaranteed payments players who fell behind, and fall. 
.adll').ired. AJI·. ~qmissipns Qffi• cer competing for st11dents i.tecenlly cQnceded tl\M the ag1~in:st <t;hampaign campus simply .··· ..... . . ~oes~:t have the. lUtti~l1al rep· 
· ···· utati9n that tbe Ann .Arbor ~~hQol enjoys. &!: . •.·... ·. XP 
':?""They're the eStablishment," . ~aiq ~ill. Leitch•. ~PQJ:'ts. flditQr so~:mo.······ at 'Pie Daily Illini. the stuqent 
70,00Q...seat Mem()riaJis 135 miles from 
•41l• .....:•.Po-t..."~u,u-.:t\iu. Chicago, 
· Kappa Sigma ftp.:ternity, an al.lthenUc Michigan ••ao :lllue'' banner h!Ulgs from the third-floor windows. Letters have ))een altered tQ :make it read ••Go Jnow:• in hopes of 
...QqeP:@Jg tbe W:oiveriJles.
+U==-:· . .. . . .... .. . 
The Official Football 
THE 
Shirt of the 
SHIRT 
Students and Alumni 
1995 
of Notre Dame 

ON SALE NOW at 
the Bookstore, LaFortune Information Desk, and Varsity Shop. 
By JAY REEVES 
Associated Press 
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. 
The NCAA will receive the re­sults of a renewed investigation into a businessman's claims to have given financial preference to Alabama athletes. 
The University of Alabama and the Southeastern Confer­ence have both reopened their reviews of the accusations of Boyd Sutherland, owner of Bo­jo's Mag Wheels and Acces­sories. 
Past investigations cleared Crimson Tide players of wrong­doing, school officials have said. 
"We're looking at it again to s~e whar!? there," Culpepper Clark, executive assistant to university president Roger Sayers, said Wednesday. 
The NCAA expects a report on the outcome of the investiga­tion, Clark said. 
"They have an interest in any case like this," Clark said. 
The NCAA's assistant execu­tive director for enforcement said he had seen news stories about Sutherland, but would not say whether the organiza­tion was investigating. 
"We cannot comment on any­thing we are doing out of this office," the NCAA's David Berst said. 
Bill Sievers, a private investi­gator working on the Suther­land case for the SEC, declined comment on the latest review, referring questions to the league office. Jim McCullough, the SEC associate commissioner in charge of NCAA rules com­pliance, also would not com­ment. 
The NCAA recently placed the Alabama football program on probation for three years be­cause of unrelated rules viola­tions. 
Thursday, August 31, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
• U.S. OPEN RESULTS 
Graf shaky as Agassi, Sampras cruise 
By STEVE WilSTEIN 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Impervious to aces and immune to scorching heat, de­fending champion Andre Agassi blazed through the first round of the U.S. Open in 81 minutes Tuesday to push his winning streak to 21 matches. 
Agassi, seeded No. 1, shrugged off 15 aces by Bryan Shelton, drilled all the balls he could reach, and turned a po­tentially tough opponent into just another patsy, 6-2, 6-2, 6­2, as courtside temperatures soared into the 90s. 
Playing gracefully and with nearly flawless precision from the baseline, Agassi picked up where he left off a year ago when he started his surge to the top of tennis. Shelton accommodated him by spraying 4 7 unforced errors -Agassi h·ad only 14 -and double­faulting nine times while trying too hard to score an upset. 
"I am used to that feeling of 
. ~  ' • ·-ill  • '" 7 •  •  
". "\:'" ~  
_.: ·~J­~ '.  

~--~..</It·'>·.,. 
·~:-5~:::~~:::' 
playing guys who are just play­ing, in a sense, outside them­selves," Agassi said, dismissing the pressure of being the top seed at the Open for the first time. "I don't spend too much time thinking about the ranking very much." 
Agassi rated himself a much better player than he was last year when he came into the Open unseeded and ran through a gantlet of top play­ers. 
"I am executing with total confidence," he said. "I have definitely taken my lumps. I have definitely learned my lessons, some of them the hard way. But I guess, ultimately, I have never given up." 
Two-time champion and No. 2 seed Pete Sampras was nearly as efficient in a 6-0, 6-3, 6-4 victory over Fernando Meligeni, an Argentine more at home on clay than on the Open's hard­courts. 
But Sampras punched a hole in the notion that all the men's matches are little more than a 
& 
prelude to an inevitable final between him and Agassi. 
"Everyone's assuming that, expecting that, but that's the last thing on my mind," Sampras said. "It would be great to get to the final and play anyone, and it would be special to play Andre. But there's a lot of time between now and next Sunday. I think I'm off to a good start. 
"It's not like Martina and Chris. Everybody knew they'd get to the final each week. That's not going to happen in the men's game." 
The women's top seed, Steffi Graf, took nearly an hour longer than Agassi to beat Amanda Coetzer 6-7 (7-1), 6-1, 6-4 and avenge a defeat against the scrappy little South African at the Canadian Open two weeks ago. 
"I don't particularly like los­ing," said Graf, who succumbed in the first set after fighting off eight set points. "I definitely wanted to play her as soon as I could. I knew it was not going 
Irish sg· 
present 
to be easy because I really haven't had a lot of matches." 
Graf acknowledged that her emotional state, shaken by the arrest of her father on tax eva­sion charges, was affecting her tennis. Her chronic back prob­lems, which led to her loss in the final last year, also continue to take a toll. 
"At certain times I have diffi­culty concentrating out there," she said. "I haven't really been able to practice much, but that is pretty much my back. I haven't had much time to get in the condition that I would like to. I haven't really played a lot. So I definitely lack confidence." 
Coetzer could see Grars vul­nerability, but wondered whether she might overcome it in time to win a fourth U.S. Open title. 
"There is a lot of pressure on her," Coetzer said. "But I felt today, after I won the first set, she started to play a lot looser and go for her shots. Maybe that could take some pressure off her." 
.. 
Mall to: 'Coachu· Tickets • Washington Hall, Univors!ty of Notre Damo, Notre Dome, IN 48558. Make chiiCb payable to: University of Notre Damo ·'I .J Visa ~Mastercard Card#----~ _...,". ""·----··--~----·--·----·-··· ···-----~--~~----·----~-· Exp, data--------­
'1
:1 Name 
I k
.1 Address (., 
·.1 I:' 
_1 CUy/St11te/lip b' 
··I . IJ.
'I # of tickets X $50 each = $ total Performance: a Friday, Sept 8 a Saturday, Sept. 9 ·~ 
·~---~"""~":'"--~.~~:'l!'!r.!7":.~~.. ~·~~-~~J!~''-~,,~~·~·~·~·~~7~~1'n~~J:!!lT~;.,.,..,•~·.,.~~~~~'~ 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
OfT-Campus Football-Anyone interested in playing for the off-campus interhall football team must contact Bill at 273­1929 by Wednesday, August 30. RecSports lntramurals-Rec­Sports is offering lnterhall & Grad/FarJStaff Baseball, Inter­hall (Men's and Women's) foot­ball, IH and Grad/Fac/Staf (Men's singles, Women's sin­gles, & mixed doubles) tennis, 
Freshman Swim Meet and 16" & Co-Ree Softball. The entry dates are from 8/23 to 8/30 in the RecSports office. Please call RecSports (1-6100) for date and time for captains' meetings. Our new hotline is 
1-8REC. Shorin-Ryu Karate-Semester long course that meets in Rockne 219 M/W 4:30-6:30 starting Wednesday, Sept. 14. Register in advance, and the fee is $15. A demonstration will be held on Sept. 4 at 5 
p.m. Call RecSports for more info. Women's Safety and Self De­fense-Class meets for ten ses­sions on MIW from 6:30-7:45 in Rockne 219. Class begins Monday, Sept. 4 and is open to students and staff. Fee is $9. Call RecSports for more info. Horseback Riding-An infor­mational meeting will be held on Thursday, Sept. 7 at 6 p.m. in the Rolfs Aquatic Facility classroom. Class begins Sept. 14, and more info at 1-6100.. Athletic Commissioners-All hall commissioners need to contact the RecSports office. We need names, phone num­bers, and addresses. Challenge-U-Aerobics-Sign­up for interval and advanced aerobics classes at the Rec­Sports office. Call 1-5965 for further details. Broadcast Irish Footbali­WVFI needs assistants to help broadcast ND football games. If interested, call Ken Maverick at the station (1-6888) or at home (277-1753). Men's Club Volleyball ­Tryouts will be held on September 10th, 11th, and 12th in the JACC Auxiliary Gym. For more info come to activities night or contact Josh at 4-3413 or Gregg at 4-1650. Saint Mary's College Basketball -The team will be holding a general meeting on Thursday, August 31 at 4:30 in the Angela Athletic Facility. Judo Club -An informational meeting will be held today at 
10:00 pm in 365 Dillon. Equestrian Club -There will be a meeting for all returning members on Thursday, August 31 at 8:00 pm in the usual room on the second floor of the 

olft11111111111 (R) UO, 4:31, 7:81, 1:38 ofrllWliJy 2(PC) 1:15,3:15,5:21,7:38,1:48 
•A ~ 111111 Arllrl2 (PG) 1:15, Ull, 5:25, 7:48,1iD .n..-,~:~~~~· (PG) 1:31, t.:l5, 5:25, 7:!5,1::15 •A WikliDICII*(PG-13)1:1U11,5:41, 7i5,1t11 
·•--·01)1:!5, 1:41, 5:50,1:11, 1111 
•IIIII (G) 1:15,1:11,5:15,7:21, UD •IIIINIIcbll (JIG-13) 1:25,1:45, 5:45, 7:45, t45, .....Dl ~(PG) 1:21, tz5, 5:31, 7:25, t55 
·~-2(R) 1:11, tl5, 5:31,7:51, 10:81 
,, Ia AI t $FATS ll~fofl~ 6 Pl.l 
• riO PAS~~b ~UPUI~AI'ER5 /,C.CEPTE~ 


page 20 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, August 31, 1995 
I 
I -· 
I 
Right about here ... 
LaFortune Open House Thursday, August 31 7pm-10pm 
• vitfeD karaDke 
~ 
;.' 

• fRlllarot card readings and caricatur~s 
• the year 8 first lic.oustic. Cafe ' 
• raflleB, giveatnayB including airline ticketB, CD playerB, concert ticl<.et8, and much, much mort(­
A 
PRIZES JDONATED BY: American Airlines 
ANTHONY TRAVEL, INC. 
Anthony Travel Huddle 

Americantafl 
Society Bank 
STUDENT UNION BOARD AmericanAirlines~ 
Student Activities 
Sponsored by: Student Business Board Student Union Board and Student Activities Student Union Board 
---~ 
-----------------------------------------------------------------~ -­
Thursday, August 31, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
But from the ashes a phoenix ty good idea what to expect and many still question if he is a de­what it was going to look like shall arise. Hopefully, so will what it's going to be like." cent physical match for coach coming down the line and see­
Powlus 

continued from page 24 
son for the whole team. I'm not going to take 100 percent of the blame for what happened last year. I'm sure some people will gladly dish it out on me. That's the way it goes." 
passing to win. 
the Irish and Powlus. And it may be that last year's disap­pointment will be·their greatest asset. 
"I think the whole experience of last year was the biggest thing I learned from last sea­son," he said. "We had a bit of everything. Now I have a pret-
Leadership was a concern last year and many looked towards Powlus. They were looking in the wrong direction. With a lack of college game day experience, he couldn't effec­tively control the huddle. 
"Last year I was going through things for the first time. I didn't know what to ex­pect and I had a lot of ques­tions. So it was hard for me to say 'OK, here's what is going to happen' because I didn't know. But after going through last year, the spring and being around Coach Holtz now for a while I know what going to happen in most situations. It will be much easier for me and I'll be a more confident leader." While he develops mentally, 
Irish 
continued from page 24 
deepest teams in the nation. 
Leading the way for the Irish will be senior defensive special­ist Brett Hensel and junior out­side hitter Jenny Birkner, who were named captains for the 1995 season. Hensel, who has played in 107 of 110 matches in her three seasons with the Irish, will be looked to provide leadership for the younger players on the squad. 
Birkner is ranked among the top passers in the country and leads all returning Notre Dame players in hitting percentage and digs (342). She was one of several players who stepped up big for the Irish last season when MCC Player of the Year 
LAST CHANCE! 
FULBRIGHT COMPETITION 1996-97 
Attention Current Seniors!!!!! 
If you are interested in graduate study and research abroad, don't miss the informational meeting THURSDAY, AUGUST 31 -7:00p.m. 131 DeBartolo with Professor A. James McAdams, Advisor 

Lou Holtz's offense. Holtz won with the option, and Powlus is definitely not an option quar­terback. He is considered too heavy and too slow. 
"I went into the summer thinking 'I'm going to eat good, run good and lift good, and whatever happens... happens,"' he explained. "My weight did­n't do much. I'm about 217 pounds. I feel faster. I am stronger. I did run faster after being timed. 1 just feel in bet­ter shape overall and my weight was such a blown out of proportion thing. 
"Running the option is an­other thing that has to do with experience. I never ran the option before. I didn't know what to expect. I didn't know 
Christy Peters was forced out with an injury. 
"It will be a little tougher without her because she was such a great player," Birkner said of Peters. "But we have a lot of talent on this team, and before it is over, we should be as good as last year." 
Notre Dame's much ac­claimed sophomore quartet of Carey May, Lee, Angie Harris, and Molly McCarthy will look to build ofT a strong 1994 season. Harris, the most experienced of the group, was named to the all-freshman team by Volleyball magazine after recording 432 kills and 303 digs in her first season. 
Lee also enjoyed an outstand­ing freshman year for the Irish. starting every match and tying for the team lead with 119 games played. As a com­pliment to her versatility, coach Brown elected to move Lee back to outside hitter, her natu­ral position. 
"It will probably take this first game against Northwestern to get the kinks out," said Lee. "But by the end of the week­end, we should be where we want to be." 
After gaining much needed experience in smaller roles last season, both May and McCarthy are expected to contribute more in their second year. Although she played in just 29 games last season, May steps in as the starting setter for the Irish. 
"She has done a great job so far and we really need her to 
New Location -University Commons 

Male &Female models needed: 
for advanced training in the most progressive Michiana salon 
call and make an appointment for free haircuts, perms, semi-permanent & permanent hair color 
Call us now and schedule your new look! 
272-1225 
AVEE».­

AROMAOLOOY-THE ART AND SCIENCE OF PURE FLOWER AND PLANT ESSENCES 
I0% off all Aveda products all the time with ND/SMC Student I.D. 
ing what was going to happen. Now I feel a lot more comfort­able with it." 
But don't expect to see the fa­bled option led offense very soon. 
"I don't think we're going to run the ·option 20 times a game or anything. But when we do run it I should feel comfortable with it." 
Even though Powlus has ma­tured, and many Irish offensive records may fall in the coming years, don't be mistaken. He's no Tony Rice, Joe Montana, Tom Clements, Terry Nanratty, Bob Williams, Johnny Lujack, Angelo Bertelli, Frank Carideo or Harry Stuhldreher. Not yet, that is. 
come up big this season as a starter," said head coach Deb­bie Brown. "For us to do well, Carey May will have to do well." 
Although things certainly look like roses and peaches heading into the season, all is not per­fect in the land of the Golden Dome. Senior Shannon Tuttle has undergone surgery and will miss the season. Several play­ers, including middle blockers Harris, Jennifer Rouse, and Jennifer Briggs, have been bothered by injuries throughout the first month of practice. 
''I'm a little apprehensive be­cause our depth at middle blocker is not as good as you'd like," said Brown. "Everyone should play this weekend, but it kind of limits the things you can do in practice." 
Although the Irish move into the Big East this season, it is the nonconference schedule that has Brown and the squad a little cautious. Notre Dame plays nine matches against seven ranked opponents, in­cluding No.1 Stanford, No. 2 Nebraska, and No. 4 Long Beach State. 
Even without one of the na­tion's toughest schedules, im­proving on a 33 win season is a tall order and a tough thing to ask out of any team. However, given the Irish's level of talent, experience, and depth, this squad might just be the one to do it. 
Zephers down 89ers 6-0 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS 
Bo Dodson's three-run homer supported a four-hit masterpiece by pitchers Mark Kiefer, Marshall Boze and John Fritz as New Orleans blanked Oklahoma City, 6-0, in an American Association game Wednesday night. 
The New Orleans victory opened a two-game series between the bottom two teams in the league stand­ings. 
Kiefer (8-2). the New Orleans starter, scattered two hits in the five innings he pitched. Boze and Fritz each gave up one hit in the ·two innings they pitched -a sin­gle ofT Boze and a double by John Marzano in the ninth that gave Oklahoma City its only extra-base hit in the game. 

.-----------------­
------------------~-----------------------------------­
t page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, August 31, 1995 
• SAINT MARY'S SOCCER 
Solomon brings football to Saint Mary's 
By CAROLINE BLUM Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
God must really like the soc­cer team at Saint Mary's. What other explanation would render for the Saint Mary's acquire­ment of the amazing new head soccer coach Solomon Scholz? 
. Scholz,. an African native, learned to play "football" in Sierra Leone several years ago. Rather than keeping his talent in Africa, however, Scholz trav­eled across a hemisphere in order to reach Indiana over ten years ago. Here he attended Indiana University, and played a lot of what we call "soccer." 
Scholz played in a MSA League after college. After winning four championships, Scholz and his teammates de­cided that they had proved their ability, and retired their shoes. 
Shortly after this time, Scholz decided to test his skills at coaching. Once again, he deemed successful as he led his team to the championships. 
"I plan to do the same with my players at Saint Mary's this year," said Scholz. "I keep stressing to them that we will go to the championships this year." 
Last season, the Belles fin­
ished with a painful 4-12 
record. This year, however, 
the players are realizing that a 
possible cause of last year's 
bad season did not stem from 
poor performance from them­
selves as players, but rather as 
a result of poor coaching. 
"Scholz's coaching is 150% 
better than the coach's last 
year," said forward Shari 
Matelski. "Last year the coach 
basically told us that we were 
going to lose our games. He fo­
cused primarily on defense in 
practice, so that we could avoid 
becoming scoredupon. This 
year is exciting, because we 
finally are able to work on 
offense instead." 
When Scholz heard of com­
ments such as these, he was 
appalled. 
"Without offense, we don't 
have a team," said Scholz. "In 
the game of soccer, games are 
won by putting the ball into the 
net. That's why I have been 
working the offense in prac­
tice." 
Scholz has strong confidence 
in the defense this season, 
which is led by senior Tina 
Brockman. 
"I am really excited about 
this year because of Solomon. 
He encourages us to be very 
.a.& 
positive," said Brockman. 
Much of the excitement in the team may stem from Scholz's philosophy regarding "carpet soccer." 
"'Carpet soccer' really means 'happy soccer," said Scholz. "I am teaching the team carpet soccer in order to boost them up. The more support my team receives, the better that they will play." 
Scholz is glad to see that his team's 23 players are all very much motivated this season, which is a result of his insis­tence to the team that they can­not lose at home. 
"I have told my players, 'we will not lose at home,"' said Scholz. "If we can satisfy this goal we will win ten games, guaranteeing us a trip to the championships." 
Also foreseeable in the future, Scholz described, are several All-Americans from the team. 
"If we don't have any All­
American this year. I will be 
very surprised," said Scholz. 
As to his feelings towards the 
admiration of his players, 
Scholz is glad that they are 
fond of him. 
"I am glad that my players 
like me," said Scholz. "I want 
them to play the game and 
have fun. I am confident that 
once this team knows and un­
derstands that we have an im­
portant place in collegiate soc­
cer, we will be hard to beat." 

The Observer/Cynthia Exconde 

Saint Mary's new soccer coach Solomon Scholz offers some advice to player Tina Brockman. 
----------------------------, 
r-~~W~m'&~ I 
HOURS: Monday • Thursday 7 am to 10 pm • Friday 7 am to 1 pm • Saturday 9 am to 7 pm • Sunday 9 am to 5 pm  1  
21 Tans  :  
For $2  


OUTPOST CENTER 
·-­
r•~ 
~ !:~I 
c-. 


VARSITY SHOP 
Varsity Shop II: The Sequel 
..., 
S~: 
NOTRE DAME <J:tw.~ 
JOYCEACC 
PLAYING EXCLUSIVELY IN THE JOYCE CENTER ENTER THROUGH GATE 3 
SECOND FLOOR ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• CONCOURSE altlt 
WE'RE MORE THt\N JUST SPORTSWEJ\R. VARSITY SHOP 
'I"''

631~560 Stop by the Varsity Shop II before this Saturday's game for everything Blue & Gold. 
OPENS FRIDAY 
NOTRE DAME 277-1166 
W.adnB dlsblnce hvm N.D. 

I 
DONT MISS irHE SERSON OPENER This Saturday I 8 a.m. Rlumni Field 
FREE Rdmission 


WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Thursday, August 31, 1995 
The Observer· TODAY page 23 

CALVIN AND HOBBES ll-\~ AR£J'\\ W\-\<J IS <JIJ\ 11\EI<E "Ttl 
't\\.\0 CAN WE LOOK IJ\> TO? 
B\JSI~'CS':> l£~<;? ~
M~N'{ HE:IaJE.S 11'151='\RE \JS Nil\-\ ~ 
11\ESE D!\'{5 PERSo~>V,\.. EAAI'-\1\E CiF HG\J~S? ~l\T\C\1\l'I.S Y' 
r. V\RT\JE ~t-ID 51:-lf·~CR\qcE CELEBR\1\£5? HE.C.k, W'2~ 
LucK'{ \r 11\t:'i Dol'l.'l rnD
11'1. THE ~f>.J'o\E 01'" f\ HIG\\E.R 
~D? 
UP IN PR\'SON.' 
'~rL 
~D •• '" 
.-------\ 'IIIII:::> 

DILBERT 
,. 
0 0
.. 
0.. 
ll> 
,.
"' 
.. 
c
.. 
.... 
.... 
0 
0 
"' 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
=+;;:...E+.-:-i -::+::-+-=-+:-1 
NO, LE.T'.S START BY YOU TELLING ME ALL 'THE THINGS YOU CAN DESIGN. TI-\E.N I'LL TE.Ll YOU WI·\ICI-\ ONE 
I. LIKE 
46 "Swann's Way" novelist 48 16th-century date 49 Pretend 
so Water pipes st Oklahoma tribe 13 Carpenters' 
devices 11 Singer Kitt et al. 17 Danger for a 
low-flying plane sa Hemingway's "Islands In the 
19 Children's author Le Cain et al. 
eo It might be past 
DOWN 
t -Valley 2 Roman officer 3 Peace Nobelist 
Cassin 4 Horse's hock 5 Chart shape 
WORK CAN W\'\1\T'S BE VE.RY THI\T 
REWARDING. OOOHlC.KEY YOU SHOULD YOU Ht\VE TRY IT. THE.RE? 
l 



Rl'K\\l~~lr.l'i, It: W£. CA~'\ GEl lt-1'51'\R~IIC>l'-1., 'NEll KC.E.PI E~lt.RT~\NtJ\'i=-1-~T 
A'S ~5\Jf\\.., 
1\\E 1-\ERO 
B\lSil'I.ES5 1s uno M£. 
... 
SCOTI ADAMS 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
t Over-the· shoulder Item 1 Beliefs t2 Conciliatory t4 Euphoria tl Sour note nComeback ta Cousin of slander t9 More than encourages 2t "-Stoops to Conquer" 22 Hospital inits. 23 Journalism, for one 
25 Sought reparations from 
21 Mill locale 
OKAY I LET'S START 5Y DOCUMENTING YOUR 1"\f>.R!<_E.T Rt.QUII\Er'\£NTS 
6 Cylindrical and 25 Used a buffer 
tapered 27 Linen fabric 7 Typewriter type 29 Supervision 8 Cats catch them 31 Russell of 9 W.W. II front: Hollywood 
Abbr. 32 Shellackings 10 Sneezer's needs 34 Tops, of a sort t1 Gloater's 35 Roving 
phrase 36 Kin of "So 13 Packing, as fruit what?" t5 Not optional 37 More breezy 16 Desk items 38 Largess 39Someroad bikes 
28 Animals in Pharaoh's dream, In Genesis 
29 Dear, in Dijon 30 Kind of 
suspicion 32 Brought up 33 Bean-sprouts 
bean 34 Kind of loser 31 Mystery awards 38 Feature of 
Sinatra and Newman 42 Drive out 43 Codger 
44 "Two Years Before the Mast" writer 
411nsurance agent's calculation 
40 Chess finale so "Take-your leader"
41 Instruments for Clarence 52 Light Clemons submachine 
43Baked gun desserts 
54 Celtic 46 Word of mouth Neptune 47 1971 batting 5& Blue-chip champ Joe symbol 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
.. 

"' 
SPORTS 
page 24 Thursday, August 31, 1995 
• VOLLEYBALL 
Road to-the Final Four 
.. 
Irish hope to continue past success 
By MIKE DAY 
Sports Writer 
A tough act to follow. 
After a tremendous 1994 campaign in which the squad established Notre Dame records for wining percentage (.892) and victories (33), what can the Irish volleyball team possibly do for an encore? 
"Make it to the Final Four," sophomore outside hitter Jaimie Lee and junior outside hitter Jenny Birkner echoed. 
And although Friday night's match up against Northwestern marks the begin­ning of what is sure to be a long and difficult journey, any­thing seems possible for the confident and talent laden Irish squad. 
"Last season gives us extra motivation heading into the year," said Lee. "I strongly be­lieve that we will be better than last year's team, and we should beat last season's rank­ing." 
Although the Irish will miss the leadership of 1994 leaders Christy Peters and Nicole Coates, the team has the opportunity to be even stronger this fall. Six starters return from last season's record setting group, and a quartet of sophomores have emerged to give Notre Dame what many consider one of the 
see IRISH I page 21 
The Observer/Mike Rums 

Returning middle blocker Jennifer Briggs is a key to Irish success. 
NORTHWESTERN usc 
at Indiana vs. Kentucky vs. Louisville vs. North Carolina St. vs. Oklahoma at Purdue TEXAS COLORADO COLOARDO at DePaul 
at ..;AtVnAtrown 
at Villanova WEST VIRGINIA DUKE at Western Michigan at Georgia Tech at Texas at Stanford at Long Beach State SYRACUSE PITTSBURGH at Rutgers at Seton Hall 
St JOHNS CONNUCTICUT at Nebraska at Providence at Boston College 

The Observer/ Tom Roland 

The Observer/Mike Rums With Shannon Tuttle out with an injury, Carey May will be counted on heavily at the setter position. 
Favorites in the East 
By BETSY BAKER 
Sports W rirer 

The Notre Dame volleyball team has become accustomed to being at the top of its conference. The Irish have successfully swept the Midwestern Collegiate Conference for the last four years winning 37 consecutive conference victories. 
With the move to the Big East this year, a change in conference might challenge the reign of the Irish. 
Despite the hopes of the new conference rivals to remove the Irish from their throne, they admit, in writing, that it is an unlikely feat. The Irish received eleven first place votes by the conference coaches in a 1995 pre-season poll placing them at the center of the Big East bulls­eye. 
No doubt exists that the Irish are the team to beat. 
The team will be traveling into uncharted ter­ritory this season and becoming acquainted with new places and new players. In the history of Irish volleyball, they have met six of the eleven members of the Big East. 
However, no current Irish player can boast experience with Big East opponents with the exception of last year's first round victory over Pittsburgh and a few regular season meetings 
see BIG EAST I page 18 

• JocK STRIP 
Is anyone out there? 
By CAROLINE BLUM 
Sainr Mary's Sports Editor 
This week students every­where at Saint Mary's will rush over to the JACC with a check for a hundred and twen­ty dollars. 
We will spend the night shivering outside with no shel­ter-all in order to receive tickets to. the Notre Dame foot­ball games this year. 
Also this week, several of 
see JOCK STRIP I page 15 
• fOOTBALl. 
Leading the way 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT 
Assistant Spans Editor 
Last year we blasphemously called him the "Messiah." We sent him into the desert with­out substance, protection, or experience. We saw him rise and fall, conquer and bleed. But most of all. we discovered our error. He would become great, but he still was just a man. 
Notre Dame quarterback Ron Powlus enters not only a new year, but a new era. Gone are the myths, the fairy tales, and the images of multiple Heisman trophies bowing to his great­ness. Present are the realities. 
People are now questioning his ability. Despite his record breaking 19 touchdowns in just his first year, "his" team went 6-5-1. If he doesn't produce a National Championship he may never be considered among the top Irish quarterbacks. But that doesn't both him. 
''I'm not going to try to win games so people say 'he was a good quarterback,"' he ex­plained during his press con­ference last Wednesday. "I want to win a National Champi­onship, not for what people think of me, but for the team. 
"Last year was a tough sea-
see POWLUSI page 21 

The Obsarver/Kyle Kusek Armed with a year of experience, Powlus has more confidence in his leadership abilities. 

Football • Solomon begins new soccer era 
vs. Northwestern 
Women's Soccer 
see page 22September 2, 1:30 EST 

vs. Providence September 2, 10 a.m. vs. St. John's September 3, Noon 

Volleyball • Agassi aces first round opponent 
vs. Northwestern September 1, 8 p.m. vs. USC September 2, 8 p.m. 
Cross Country 
see page 19 at Ohio State September 15 
Men's Soccer 
• MLB wildcard race heats up vs. DePaul September 3, 2 p.m. 
see page 16-17 

• ·' I~.:. >~_".,"',~'i <:-;,;_·:::,;:,{·>.. ~-~~~-0~·?). "' --~ ~.
-~--' ­
-.-.~ ., :·•;-~ ,_u· ~ ' .· 
' .•...y~-· .···-~-. ' .. ••. ••~-~::~ -•.-.-~-~~--..,.,.~' ! ..·,._._ ....... ·--~-: '
...,... ·.
··~. ·-..
The Milestone 
'·"' 

··~~'~ ___--.._,_:_ ' 
·---:"' Notre..Daroe 
---... 
head coach 
· Lou Holtz 
eyes his~ 200th win 
By Mike Norbut 

· you've heard the tale. The way the coach tells it so matter of factly, it's more of a funny little witticism. 
But it has become a legend over the years. 
Lou Holtz was once unemployed and downtrodden. But he decided to make a list of goals to get himself back on track. 
"I wrote down 107 things that I wanted to do in my lifetime," he starts. "Then I showed the list to my wife. (Short pause) She looked at the list, turned to me and said, 'That's great, but when are you going to get a job?' 
"So it turned out I had 108 things on my list." 
Three decades later, Holtz has done 98 of them. He's visited the White House, met the Pope, and jumped out of an air­plane, among other things. 
_ He's even gotten a hole-in-one. Twice. 
•·,t«;;;:,;:~""'"~-~ 

-~i;~~ · • .:::::"\ see HOLTZ I page 6 
r----------------~~--~ 
Friday, September 1, 1995 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA page 2 

IRISH ON THE OFFENSIVE II 
ti • 
Wildcats will test Notre Dame air attack 
By TIM SEYMOUR 
Associate Sports Editor 
In last season's opener against Northwestern, Notre Dame rolled convincingly over the Wildcats by a 42-15 mar­gin. However, if Saturday's game follows the same script, don't expect head coach Lou Holtz to be ecstatic after the game. 
"Last year we had some big throws and fantastic catches," said Holtz. "However, Lee Becton and Ray Zellars rushed 15 times for 38 yards. To be a good football team we have to be able to run the football." 
Notre Dame football is tradi­tionally .synonymous with a strong ground game, but the musical chairs played by last year's offensive line led to in­consistent efforts at best. 
This season the Irish are hop­ing that practice repetitions 

Brian Magee is Notre Dame's starting strong safety. 
translate into cohesiveness, as the line has been established and injury free from the begin­ning of fall practice. 
They will have to be sharp against a Wildcat defense that head coach Gary Barnett terms "the strength of our team." Northwestern returns a veteran front seven that is competent if not flashy, led by senior line­backer Danny Sutter, an All-Big Ten performer who led the team with 120 tackles. 
The core of the Wildcat de­fense, though, is the secondary, rated by many publications as the best in the Big Ten. All-Big Ten safety William Bennett leads a group that Holtz praised as the "hitting us as hard as any secondary in the country." 
However, Bennett and com­pany rarely face the talent level at the skill positions that the Irish can bring to bear. The running game, given opportu­nity by the line, has the poten­tial to shine, as Robert Farmer, Marc Edwards, and last sea­son's leading rusher Randy Kinder have all smoothly made the transition to the veteran portion of their careers. 
Quarterback Ron Powlus should also have benefited from his trial by fire last season to emerge more mature, and has the benefit of sure handed All­American candidate Derrick Mayes, whom Holtz termed "as fine a receiver as we've ever had here" as his primary tar­get. 
A key for the Irish may well be the productivity from the other wide receiver slot, filled by Scott Sollmann, Emmett Mosley, and perhaps the injured Charlie Stafford, which will have to prove a serious threat to open some room for Mayes. 
The Observer/ Scott Mendenhall 

Marc Edwards will have to carry the load in short yardage situations. 
WILDCATS ON THE OfFENSIVE II 
II II 

Shaking up Schnur objectilve for Irish 
By TIM SEYMOUR Associate Sports Editor 
"The great thing about the opening game is that you just don't know what's going to happen," stated Irish head coach Lou Holtz in his pregame press conference. 
No more candid statement has been issued thus far regarding the patchwork Irish defense entering the 1995 campaign. 
With seven players starting in new positions on Saturday, questions abound about the Irish defense. Big questions. 
Like can the vastly undersized line contain an offense that moved the ball at will against the Irish in the first half last year, or stop tailback Darnell Autry, who racked up 171 yards against Penn State? 
Or has last year's shaky secondary made any strides toward improvement? Or can John McLaughlin and Kory Minor effectively TheOtJeerver/BrentTadaen split time at the rush end position? 
As Holtz noted, at the very least Saturday's contest 
T
o remedy the special teams woes of recent years, coach Lou Holtz has brought in freshmen talent, but he admits that he "has no idea how they will react in front of a large crowd." 
Kevin Kopka, the prize recruit from FlorWa nicknamed 'Thunderfoot,' has talent but has been inconsistent in practice. Punter Hunter Smith doubles as 
third string quarterback. While returners Scott Sollmann and 
By Tim Seymour 

will yield answers, although some he may not want to hear. 
Fortunately for the Irish, the Northwestern offense is riddled with almost as many questions, most notably at the skill positions. 
Quarterback Steve Schnur finished the 1994 season in impressive fashion, but has yet to prove his durabili­ty, and enters the contest with the liability of no expe­rienced wide receivers as established targets. 
The success of the Northwestern offense is therefore contingent on the productivity of the running backs and the protection afforded Schnur. As All-Big Ten center Rob Johnson noted, "We need a quarterback who can complete passes and convert on third downs. We have a lot of confidence in Steve." 
Schnur's confidence, however, may be shaken if the Irish can apply pressure from the first snap. Notre Dame's linebacking corps, and especially the emerging Bert Berry, must get into the backfield, not only to dis­rupt the Wildcats but also to relieve the beleaguered Irish secondary. 
Emmett Mosley have soft hands, 
neither has taken one back. Yet. The Irish could take some lessons from the Wildcats. Punter Paul Burton is rated second in the nation with an average over 43 yards per kick last year. Placekicker Sam Valenzisi is the school's second leading career scorer. Northwestern does not of­ten outclass the Irish, but special teams could create some breaks Photo courtesy ot Northwestern Sports lntonnation for the 'Cats come Saturday. Paul Burton is one of Northwestern's star players. 
Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports lnlonnatlon 
Emmett Mosley will be returning punts and kicks. 

page 3 

• • •DARNELL AUTRY 
I\8 
Photo courtesy of Northwestern Sports Information 
R
unning back Darnell Autry is the main cog of Northwestern's offense, as the returning rushing leader for the team. 
Autry, a Gatorade Circle of Champions linalist in high school­will have to live up to some great expectations 
after a promis­
ing freshman has been a three­year. year starter,and lie will also has the ability to 
have to lill the 
handle the shoes of the . 
undersized Irish Wildcats' all­line but the rest time leading of the defensive .rusher, Dennis is relatively 
Lundy, who young and inex­
Autry 
graduated last year with 3062 yards. 
The 6-foot-1, 211-lb sophomore has been described by coach Gary Barnett as a "Barry Sanders-type player." in that he is strong and durable. 
In his impressive freshman campaign, he broke a Wildcat record for most rushing yards in a rookie season with 556 yards on 120 car­rins with one touch­down. 
lie also caught sovtm passes for 83 yards and contributed on special teams. lie had 13 kick­off returns for 283 yards, including the longest return of the Northwestern season with a 65-yard run against the llawkeyes of Iowa. 
He gave notice of 
things to come in Northwestern's season finale against Penn State. In his only start of 1994, the Tempe, Ariz. native rushed for 117 yards on 39 carries. 
Stand-out senior cen­ter Rob Johnson will provide strong blocking for Autry. The 6-foot-4, 
270-lb Johnson 
perienced. 
Four candidates bat­tled for the starting quarterback job, with senior Steve Schnur earning the nod against Notre Dame. While sharing starting duties with current junior Tim Hughes last year, Schnur threw for 899 yards and four touch­downs. 
"We need a quarter­back who can complete passes and convert on thrid downs," Johnson says. "We have a lot of confidence in Steve." 
However, with a largely untested reciev­ing corps, count on the ground game, especially Darnell Autry, to be the focus of Northwestern's offense and the irish defense. 
-Megan McGrath 
----~ ~ 

The Observer • IRISH EXTRA 
,!!~u!~!~~!?'!? I 
at who holds the advantage 
~~ Qtulrterbacks ···~-;,__;,;,___,;,_,j 
Ron J?owlus1~ afleisman Trophy dt~dk{a~e '\Vho 
torched Northwestern for his•bestcollegial:e game 
last season. Who is Steve Schnur? 
~~RunningBacksc=J· 
Darnell Autry is capable ofexploding, but fullback 
is a big question mark. For theJrish, the triumvi~ 
rate ofEdwards, Kinder and Farmer is formidable; 
Receivers ~ 
0 ~• • 

Mayes is unparalleled, but Sollmann or Mpsley 
needs to developinro·a second threat..•B;J.tespad·a 
good spring for the 'Cat~, but is.only a freshman. 
[]Offensive Line 19]1, 
Johnson and Padgett anchor a crew that ran roughshod over the Irish last year. Notre Dame has looked more cohesive, but only time will toell, 
M.::e::::~=~M~e 
tested, while Bennett has drawn rave reviews. The 'Cats are deeper than ND, but not as talented, 

Linebackers 
[2]
.. 

Strong, swift, and deep, the backers are th.e core of the Notre Dame defense. N¢rthwestern's Danny Sutterled the team in tackles,. burhas little help. 

Secondary JAJ 
l:!rl 

Bennett & Co. will be a goocl earlyseason test for 
Mayes. The Irish secondary srruggl~dlastyeat, 
and can no longer rely on BpbbyTaylor. 
I .l Special Tea~s. f!] 
Punter·Burton and kicker Valen:c;isi are All':BigTt!n 
candidates, and the 'Cats return teams ;u'e danger,... 
ous. 'Thunderfoot' needs to show up fonhe Irish. 
~~ Coaching [] 
Holtz's decisions were questioned for the first time 
in a while last year. ·Seeking his 200th career vvi.n~ 
.oo~h::::oonvm~ 


N'western is betterthanrecent y~ars, •buttalenr ar ·· the skill positions fuvor the Irish. ·-.Tirn Seymour 
W
eo~f~~ 
ooks to 
go to the air and his favorite tar­get, Derrick Mayes, he should be conscious of one of the most under­rated defensive backs in college football. Northwestern's defense is led by senior William Bennett. The free safety has been an All-Big Ten honorable mention for the last two sea­
sons, and has~ 
quietly become one of the most 
season as well.

feared players Bennett 
in the midwest, if not the nation. 
"The strength of our club should be our defense," Wildcat coach Gary Barnett says. "And William Bennett is the Dean of our defense." 
Described as a "fero­cious hitter" who pro­vides tremendous run support, Bennett led the 'Cats with three inter­ceptions last season, and was second on the team with 100 tackles. He earned a career­high 20 tackles against Michigan State last year. 
In his Wildcat career, Bennett has started 31 of 33 games and is cur­rently sixth on the school's all"time tackle list with 316 hits. He is also sixth in career passes broken up, with 
Last season he returned a fumble 96 yards for the game-win­ning touchdown against Air Force. He tallied 66 tackles last season in addition to two passes broken up and two fum­ble recoveries. 
The always-improving Ray is just seven pass­deflections away from breaking the university record. A fifth-year senior who has been starting for the past two seasons, Ray had 43 tackles and 30 solo stops in 1994. 
Last year's leading tackler, inside line­backer Danny Sutter, will again be a force on defense. The senior All-Big Ten honorable mention had 120 stops for the Wildcats last 
season. 
--Megan McGrath 
Friday, Septmber 1, 1995 
fourteen. 
The Sporting News named Bennett one of the nation's most underrated palyers, as well as a first-team All­Big Ten selection. The secondary that Bennett leads was also named as tops in the confer­ence. 
Compelementing Bennett on the corners are seniors Rodney Ray and Chris Martin. Martin possesses such quickness that he will likely handle punt returns this 


Friday, September 1, 1995 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA page 4 
WILDCATS 
• • •  
1  2  3  4  T  FtELDGOALS  
23  109  32  46  210  PASSING  Comp  All  Pet  Yda  TD  lnt  Lg  Valenzisi  
68  104  101  78  351  Schnur  61  117  52.1  899  4  10  64  
f:iughes  61  132  46.2  774  5  8  59  PUNTING  
NU  Opp  Burton  
First downs  198  225  RECEIVING  Rec  Yds  Avg  TD  Lg  
Total yards  3513  4590  Drexler  13  225  17.3  1  31  KICKOFF RETURNS  
Total yards per game  319.4  417.3  Graham  9  74  8.2  0  22  Autry  
Total offensive plays  738  755  Beazley  8  66  11.0  1  17  Musso  
Avg. yards per play  4.8  6.1  Autry  7  83  11.9  0  22  RayS  
Rushing yards  1792  2219  Musso  6  78  13.0  0  39  McGrew  
Rushing yards par game  162.9  201.7  Bums  3  31  10.3  0  17  Fitzgerald  
Rushing plays  482  477  Dailey  1  23  23.0  0  23  Waterman  
Passing yards  1721  2371  Schnur  1  13  13.0  0  13  
Passing yards par game  156.5  215.5  Bennett  12  12.0  0  12  INTERCEPTIONS  

Passes completed Passes attempted Passes intercepted 
Fumbles I Fumbles lost Penalties-Penalty yards Third down conversions 
Percentage Fourth down conversions 
No.Name 
1  Larry Guess  
2  Mike Davis  
4  Chris Hamdorf  
D'Wayne Bates  
Marcel Price  
Aaron Burrell  
Tim Hughes  
Uoyd Abramson  

10 Steve Schnur 11 Gerald Conaway 12 Mark Broxterman 13 Brian Gowins 14 Paul Burton 15 Rodney Ray 16 Chris Martin 17 Josh Barnes 18 T. Waterman 19 Brian Rubin 20 William Bannan 21 Fred Wilkerson 22 Brian Musso 23 Scott Musso 24 Darnell Autry 25 Jeff Swenson 26 Mike Nelson, Jr. 27 Sam Valenzisi 28 Doug Macleod 29 Chris Rooney 30 Matt Stewart 31 Kyle Sanders 32 Adrian Autry 33 Eric Collier 34 Lavelle Brown 35 Matt Fordenwall 36 Casey Dailey 37 Faraji Leary 38 Tyrone Gooch 39 Shannon Jones 40 Josh Kolar 41 Matt Henkelmann 42 Tucker Morrison 43 Stafford Gaston 44 Keith Lozowski 45 Mike McGrew 46 MattHartl 4 7 Geoff Shein 
"47 Morgan Campbell 48 Eugene Allen 49 Kevin Buck 50 Danny Sutter 51 Pat Fitzgerald 52 Tim Scharf 53 Don Holmes 54 S. Offenbacher 55 Barry Gardner 56 Zach Sidwell 57 Rob Johnson 58 Jason Matiyow 59 Jason Ross 60 John Wendland 61 Justin Chabot 62 Adam Reed 63 Nathan Strikwerda 64 Larry Yeager 65 Jeff Dyra 66 Graham Gnos 66 Mike Warren 69 Chris Leeder 70 Brian Hemmerle 71 Bo Brownstein 72 Kevin Peterson 73 Mark Tomkiel 7 4 Paul Janus 75 Ryan Padgett 76 Tony Dodge 77 Chad Pugh 78 Brian Ka.Vos 79 Bryan LaSalle 80 John Burden 81 Jon Bums 82 Hasani Steele 83 Darren Drexler 64 Shane Graham 85 Brian Harping 66 Dave Baazley 66 KeJuan DuBose 66 James McCaffrey 89 Larry Curry 89 Randy McLain 90 Thor Schmidt 91 Marc Lapadula 92 Mike Giometti 93 Luis Oropeza 94 Joe Reiff 95 Matt Rice 96 Ray Robey 
125  169  Bennett  
256  278  ALL-PURPOSE  Rush  Rec  Ret  Tot  Avg  Shein  
19  6  Autry  556  83  283  922  83.8  Sutter  
19/10  19/12  Drexler  0  225  0  225  20.5  
47-377  72·544  Musso  0  78  37  115  10.5  DEFENSE  
57·161  70·149  Beazley  0  88  0  88  8.0  Sutter  
35.4  47.0  RayO  0  86  86  7.9  Bennett  
8·14  5·11  Graham  0  74  0  74  6.7  Martin  
Rice  
SCORING  TO  2XP  1XP  FG  Sal  Pis  Shein  
Vds/Gm  No  Yds  Avg  TD  Lg  Valenzisi  0  0  21·21  13  0  60  Fitzgerald  
50.6  120  556  4.6  1  47  Schnur  2  0  ()..0  0  0  12  Ray30  
0.4  3  4  0.8  0  10  Baazley  1  0  0·0  0  0  6  Warren  
·3.0  1  ·3  ·3.0  0  ·3  Drexler  1  0  0·0  0  0  6  Curry  
-4.1  34  ·37  ·1.1  2  12  Autry  1  0  0·0  0  0  6  Collier  
·4.8  37  -48  ·1.3  1  9  Musso  1  0  o-o  0  0  6  Giometti  
Martin  1  0  ()..0  0  0  6  Scharf  
• • •  
Pos.  Hl  Wl  YR  Gary Barnett  
WR  6·3  190  JR  
WR  6-4  210  FA  
QB WR  6·3 6·3  196 JR 195 so  Fourth season at Northwestern.  
DB RB  6·1 6·2  190 so 190 FA  Career Record: 16-35-2  
QB QB QB DB  6·3 6·3 6·1 6·1  215 JR 218 so 190 SA 175 FA  Against Opponent: 0-3 Highlights: Barnett has brought a  
QB K  5·11 5·9  160 FA 160 so  renewed sense of optimism to Evanston  

p 5·11 185 SA CB 5·11 190 SA CB 5·9 180 SA DB 5·11 170 so WR 6·2 205 JR DB 5·9 175 FA s 6·1 190 SA DB 6·2 190 so WR 6..() 186 JR RB 5·11 195 FA RB 6·1 211 so WR 5·11 180 so DB 6-2 200 so K 5·7 156 SA 
LAST TIME DB 5·11 195 so CB 5·8 181 SA s 5·11 188 JR LB 6..() 195 FA 
Notre Dame 42 RB 5·11 185 so 
s 6-2 215 JR Northwestern 15 RB 6·0 208 FA TE 6-3 227 FA LB 6·4 242 JR RB 6·1 205 so 
Last season's gamein 
RB 5·11 175 FA K 5·9 190 so 
Chicago saw the Wildcats 
LB 6-4 220 FA WR 6·2 177 so 
waste a strong first half 
LB 6·2 225 JR LB 6·3 230 FA 
with 3 turnovers (includ­
LB 6-2 251 JR RB 6..() 216 SA 
ing Travis Davis' inter­RB 6-3 225 so LB 6·2 224 SA 
ception).Ron Powlus 
CB 5·7 160 FA DB 5·10 193 so threw 4 TD's. LB 6·3 205 FR LB 6·2 225 SR LB 6-4 228 JR LB 6·2 240 JR LB 6..() 240 so OL 6·1 270 so LB 5·11 232 so LB 6-4 225 FR 
c 6-4 270 SR c 6·3 255 FR WR LB 6-4 275 so 
12 D'W~ne Bates 
OT 6-4 285 SR 
1Larry uess 
OT 6-6 285 SR 
ST
c 8-3 275 so 
78 Brian Kardos
OL 6-3 272 JR 
OL 6-3 215 FR 72 Kevin Peterson DL 6-4 245 FR SG OL 6·3 276 SR 
nchad Puah 
LB 6·5 237 SR 
66 Graham nos 
OL 6-4 292 so 
c
OT 6·7 270 FR 
57 Rob Johnson
OL 6-6 260 FR 
OG 6-4 262 SR 54 Shawn Offenbacher OT 6-6 304 so TG OT 6·5 278 JR 75 Ryan Pa~ett 
OG 6·3 285 SR 79 Bryan La ella 
OL 6-6 310 FR 
TI 
OG 6·3 279 SA 
74 Paul Janus
OT 6·5 285 SR 
OT 6-6 304 so 60 Jason Wendland 
WR 6-4 193 so TE OT 6-6 270 so 83 Darren Drexler WR 5·11 170 FR 84 Shane Gmham 
TE 6-6 260 SA 
QB
TE 6-6 260 SA 
1 0 Steve Schnur
TE 8-3 267 SR 
STirn Hughes
WR 5·9 185 SR DT 6·3 273 JR RB TE 6-j 195 FA 24 Darnell Autry 
DT 6-4 273 SA 32 Adrian AutrY 
LB 6-3 200 FR 
FB 
LB 6·3 240 so 
46 Matt Hartl
LB 6-3 240 FR 
45 Mike McGrew
DL 6-3 234 SR LB 6-1 226 JR WR DT 6-4 270 SR 18Toussaint Waterman DT 6-3 255 JA 86 Dave Beazley 
DT 6-4 270 JR 
along with better talent. 10 Wildcats have joined pro clubs under Barnett. 
HWESTERN OFFENSE 
!I 
i, 
li
>C 

'I 0
1,
!I ·io
I! 
I 

~ >C i 0 0
'< >C 0 .:
>C

~ 0 0'I
I 0 
I >C

I I 0 ·i 
0 .t
>C 0 
Tot 13·19  
No 51  Avg 43.0  Bk 0  Lg 70  
No 13 2 10.8 2 1 1  Avg 21.8 18.5 0 8.0 0.0 0.0  TO 0 0 27 0 0 0  Lg 65 21 9 0 0  
No 3 1  Yds 0 9 0  TD 0 0 0  Lg 0 9 0  
T 75 72 41 33 37 24  A 45 28 25 20 14 19 43 13 10 6 5 5  Tot 120 100 66 53 51 43 0 31 18 18 13 13  FR 0 0 2 0 1 1 13 0 0 0 2 0  PBU 0 5 2 1 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0  Sac 2 0 0 3 2 0  

RECORDS 
Notre Dame leads 14-3 Last ND win: 42-15, 1994 Last NU win: 35-6, 1962 Streak : 14 by ND At Notre Dame Stadium The Irish have won seven straight games including a 27-12 win in 1993. 
DE 48 Renaldo Wynn
56 Kurt Belisle 
NT 93 Paul Grasmanis 69 David Quist
DT 95 Cor~ Bennett 
99 Cliff troud 
RLB 33 John Mclaughlin4Kory Minor 
SAM 6 LY.ron Cobbins 
41 Joe Babey
WII_L 2Kinnon Tatum 37 Jeff Kramer 
LC 15 Allen Rossum 14 Ivory Covington
ss 
17 Brian M~ee 
30 Jarvis E rson 
FS 9 LaRon Moore 24 TyGoocle
RC 22 Shawn Wooden 
23 Autry Denson 

97 Joel Stuart TE 6-6 220 so 97 Gladaton Taylor DL 6-5 230 FA 98 Bobby Russ DL 6-4 275 so 
page 5 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA Friday, September 1, 1995 
FIGHTING IRISH 
• • •  
1  2  3  4  T  PASSING  Comp  All  Pet  Yds  TD  tnt  Lg  
50  117  82  89  318  Powlus  119  222  53.6  1729  19  9  eo  FIELD GOALS  
26  83  47  103  239  Krug  7  16  43.8  98  1  1  31  Cengia  

TEAMSTATS  NO  
First downs  222  
Total yards  4230  
Total yards per game  384.5  
Total offensive plays  757  
Avg. yards per play  5.59  
Rushing yards  2372  
Rushing yards per game  215.6  
Rushing plays  513  
Passing yards  1858  
Passing yards per game  168.9  
Passes completed  129  
Passes attempted  244  
Passes intercepted  11  
Fumbles I Fumbles lost  22/10  
Penallies-Penelly yards  55-437  
Third down conversions  58-149  
Percentage  38.9  
Fourth down conversions  11-16  
Yda/Gm  
27.9  
18.7  
14.6  
4.7  
2.0  
0.1  
-4.4  

NOTRE DAME STADIUM 
Opened in 1930 Capacity: 59, 075 Largest Crowd: 61,296 Surface: Grass Irish at home: 243-70-50 
THE STARTERS 
TB 25 Randy Kinder 
31 Robert Farmer 
FB 30 Marc Edwards 
34 Jamie Spencer
QB 3 Ron Powlus 
11 Tom KrugFl 
81 Charles Stafford 5 Emmett Mosley
SE 1 Derrick Mayes83 Scott Solmann 
TE 98 Pete Ch~plewicz88 leon Wa lace 
RT 73 Mike Dough~
79 Mike Rosent al 
RG 72 Ryan Leahy54 Luke Petitgout 
c 77 Dus~eigler
57 Rick czenskll 
G 
76 Jerem~ Akers 
66 Jeff Ki urg
LT 
75 Chris Clevenger70 Tim Ridder 

Ill JTRE DAME..,  NO  
OFFENSE  DEFENSE  T  95 Matt Rice  
88 KeJuan DuBose  
T  
81 Jon Burns  
89 Larry Curry 
RE  
36 cases Dail~90 Thor chmi t  
)IC X  )C. )II( )II( )C. )IC. )C. )C.  0 0 c 0  lo 0 c  ' c;» il 0 1: I ~ ~ I' 0 +1: I I I  LE ILB ILB ILB ss CB CB  68 Mike Warren 44 Keith Lozowskl 51 Pat AtzPrerald 53 Don Homes 50 Danny Sutter 67 Barry Gardner 52 Tim Scharf 47 Geoff Shein 33 Eric Collier 48 Eugene Allen 15Rod~Ray21 Fred lkerson  
I  FS  16 Chris Martin 29 Chris Rooney  
20  
26  

Opp RECEIVING Rae Yda Avg TO Lg PUNTING 218 Mayas 47 847 18.0 11 60 Wachtel 3661 Stafford 18 254 14.1 3 34 
332.8 Mosley 11 118 10.7 0 37 KICKOFF RETURNS n9 Edwards 5 58 11.6 0 39 Mosley 
4.70 Wallace 2 21 10.5 1 15 Becton 1538 Farmer 1 15 15.0 1 15 Stafford 
139.8 Kinder 1 12 12.0 0 12 Farmer 
444 Soli mann 1 8 8.0 0 8 2123 PUNT RETURNS 
193.0 ALL..PURPOSE Rush Rae Ret Tot Avg Mosley 190 Mayes 0 847 0 847 n.o 335 Mosley 187 118 355 660 66.0 INTERCEPTIONS 
7 Kinder 702 12 0 714 64.9 Wooden 30/15 Edwards 307 58 0 365 33.2 Covington SQ-433 Stafford 24 254 29 307 27.9 Sample 48-154 Farmer 131 15 60 206 22.9 
31.2 DEFENSE 12-19 SCORING TO 2XP 1XP FG Sal Pis Sample Mayes 11 1 0-0 0 0 68 Wooden 
TO Lg Kinder 4 0 0-0 0 0 24 Wynn 2 37 Mosley 4 0 0-0 0 0 24 Grasmanis 4 24 Cengia 0 0 4-7, 5 0 19 Cobbins 0 22 Stafford 3 0 o-o 0 0 18 Berry 0 14 Pow Ius 2 0 0-0 0 0 12 Moore 
Edwards 2 0 o-o 0 0 12 Dansby 1 0 0-0 0 0 6 Tatum 1 0 0-0 0 0 6 Covington 
LOU HOLTZ 

Tenth season at Notre Dame. Career Record: 199-89-7 Against Northwestern: 5-1 

···~.t 
$''~ -~.;~·~ 
,.,...~.. · 
~­
... 
.... 
D-29 3Q-39 4Q-49 50+ Tot o-o Hl 1-2 0-0 5-8 
No Avg Bk Lg 12 35.7 1 48 
No Avg TD Lg 
13 24.6 0 47 1 17.0 0 17 2 14.5 0 19 5 12.0 0 14 
No Avg TD Lg 8 4.4 0 12 
No Yda TD Lg 1 7 0 7 1 2 0 2 1 0 0 0 
T A Tot FA PBU Sac 51 18 69 0 1 5.0 49 10 59 1 8 0.0 35 14 49 1 1 1.0 27 20 47 0 2 2.5 28 6 34 0 0 1.0 17 9 26 0 4 6.0 19 6 25 0 3 0.0 
9 9 18 0 0 1.5 6 16 0 2 13 1 

Poa. Hl Wl 

Derrick Mayes WR 6-1 204 SA Kinnon Tatum LB 6-0 216 JR Ron Powlus QB 6-2 217 JR Kory Minor LB 6-2 225 FA Emmett Mosley WR 5-9 180 JR Lyron Cobbins LB 6-0 241 JR Jarious Jackaon QB 6-2 215 FA LaRon Moore s 5-9 190 SA 
10 Mike Perona QB 6-1 190 JR 11 Tom Krug QB 6-4 206 JA 12 Scott Cengia K 5-9 179 so 12 Mario Strayhorn DB 6-2 205 FA 13 Bert Berry LB 6-3 230 JR 13 John Bishop CB 5-11 170 JR 14 Ivory Covington CB 5-9 161 so 15 Allen Rossum CB 5-7 176 so 16 Jerry Maloney K 5-11 174 JA 17 Brian Magee s 5-10 204 SA 17 Mark McKenna QB 5-11 182 JR 18 Clkai Champion WR 5-10 191 JR 19 Marcus Thome RB 6-0 224 SA 20 Kevin Kopka K 5-8 175 FA 21 Shannon Stephens RB 5-10 175 FA 22 Shawn Wooden CB 5-11 188 SA 23 Bill Gibbs s 5-10 179 JR 23 Autry Denaon RB 5-10 175 FA 24 TyGoode CB 5-11 163 so 25 Randy Kinder RB 6-1 206 JR 28 Mark Monohan CB 5-11 184 SA 26 Chris McCarthy K 5-11 194 so 27 Bobble Howard LB 5-11 210 FA 28 Ken Berry AB 6-0 214 so 29 Roni Enisle DB 6-0 180 JA 29 A'Jani Sanders DB 5-11 175 FA 30 Jarvis Edison s 6-4 213 so 31 Robert Farmer AB 5-10 208 JR 32 Clement Stokes RB 6-0 203 so 33 John McLaughlin LB 6-4 222 so 34 Jamie Spencer RB 6-1 245 FA 35 Scott Palumbo 5-11 187 SA
p 

35 Robert Phelps CB 6-0 185 JR 36 Chlrs Wachtel 5-11 211 JR
p 

37 Jeff Kramer LB 6-2 218 so 38 Sim Stokes CB 6-0 185 JR 39 Benny Guilbeaux DB 6-4 210 FA 40 Kevin Carretta TE 6-1 230 SA 41 Joe Babey LB 6-1 227 so 42 Mike Frascogna WR 5-8 184 SA 43 Bill Wagasy LB 6-3 224 SA 44 Marc Edwards RB 6-0 227 JA 45 Hunter Smllh 6-3 195 FA
p 

46 James Jackaon RB 5-10 205 FA 4 7 Bill Mitoulas LB 6-1 217 so 48 Renaldo Wynn DE 6-3 260 SA 
49 Joe Thomas  LB  6-3  205  FA  
52 Alex Mueller  OL  6-8  260  FA  
53 Lamont Bryant  DE  6-4  235  FA  
54 Luke Petllgout 55 Shellon Jorden 56 Kurt Belisle  OG LB LB  6-8 6-4 6-2  282 230 220  so FA so  
57 Rick Kaczenski  c  6-4  263  JR  
58 Mike Burgdorf 59 Matthew Kunz  TE s  6-0 6-0  205 209  JR so  
60 Sean Rogers  OT  5-10  280  JR  
62 Mike McCullough  NG  6-2  298  SA  
65 Matt Griesbach  OG  6-0  263  so  
88 Jeff Kilburg  OG  6-4  278  JA  
67 John Wagner  OL  6-8  300  FA  
69 David Quist  NG  6-8  281  SA  
70 nm Ridder  OL  6-7  280  FA  
71  Jerry Wisne  OL  6-7  282  FA  
72 Ryan Leehy  OG  6-4  288  SA  
73 Mike Doughty  OT  6-7  291  JR  
75 Chris Clevenger  OT  6-8  285  JR  
76 Jeremy Akers  OG  6-5  288  SA  
n  Dusty Zeigler  c  6-8  292  SA  
78 Jon Splckeimier  c  6-2  285  so  
79 Mike Rosenthal  OL  6-7  290  FA  
80 Malcolm Johnaon  WR  6-4  206  so  
81  Charles Stafford  WR  5-9  187  SA  
82 Bobby Brown  WR  6-3  175  FA  
83 Scott Sollmann  WA  5-8  180  JR  
84 Dan McConnell  WR  5-8  181  SA  
86 Antwon Jones  DL  6-4  237  FA  
87 Jimmy Friday  LB  6-3  230  FA  
88 Leon Wallace  TE  6-3  285  SA  
89 Mike Denvir 89 John Ceraaani  TE TE  6-3 6-4  231 245  JA FA  ....  
90 Ben Foos  DE  6-4  250  SA  
91  Darnell Smith  DE  6-5  2n  JA  
93 Paul Grasmanls  NG  6-2  279  SA  
94 Justin Orr  WR  6-0  190  JR  
95 Corey Bennett  DE  6-1  228  so  
97 Corey Radder  LB  6-1  220  so  
98 Pete Chryplewlcz  TE  6-5  257  so  
99 Cliff Stroud  DE  6-3  285  SA  

I
·'' 



Friday, September 1, 1995 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA 
factly, the way he tells his own But, philosophically, it does story about making his list of have a little meaning. 
Holtz 
goals. "Getting 200 wins tells me continued from page 1 "To tell you the truth, I had three things," Holtz said. "First, no idea he was going for 200," it tells me that I've had a lot of And that job thing? It's more quarterback Ron Powlus said. great players and assistant 
of ltis niche in society than a "I don't know how many people coaches." method of employment. on the team are actually aware Many assistant coaches have 
Saturday, Holtz will be of it, either." moved on to their own head attempting to achieve the So the players' inspirations coaching positions, including 200th win of his career. That's will probably come from them­Wisconsin's Barry Alvarez and quite an accomplishment for a selves, just like Holtz, who had Holtz's son, Skip, who went to man that forgot to put down to motivate himself in order to the University of Connecticut "get a job" on his list of lifetime get what he wanted, including a two years ago. Other coaches goals. But it probably isn't one coaching job at the University have gone to the big show, the of the ten accomplishments he of Notre Dame. National Football League. But has left. either. But now that he's under the every single one of them, when 
"I don't think about (getting golden dome, and has been they read their respective state­200 wins)," the coach said. "I here for a decade, the motiva­ments for the press at their new just think about winning as tion comes from more places job. always include the words, many games as we can every than just himself. "Lou Holtz," or "Notre Dame" season." "I guess I get my motivation in the first few sentences. 
But can't this be a motivating from a lot of places," he said. "I "Second," the coach contin­factor for the team, especially look to my wife, but I also look ues, "it tells me I've lost a lot of one that is coming off a gruel­at the university. games." ing 6-5-1 season a year ago? "I see things like the band, or 89 of them, actually. That 
This milestone could now be a students sleeping out for tick­may seem like a lot, but strung monkey on Holtz's back. If ets, or just students in general. over 25 years, that's only 3.56 a things went right last year, he You can't miss it here." year. That includes his three could have hit the mark on It's the same attitude that he losing seasons with William & October 15, the date of the BYU has instilled in his players over Mary and his two-year stint debacle. the years. Appreciate your with the doormats of the Big 
As things were, he could have school, your fans, your parents. Ten, Minnesota. gotten it at Southern Cal or Without them, you won't be Take away those five seasons against Colorado in the Fiesta successful. and 32 losses, and the coach Bowl. But Holtz's plan of focusing averages 2.85 losses a year. It's 
But last year was last year, as on the Wildcats may backfire. no wonder he ranks third Holtz has harped since the hot The cat may be out of the bag. among active coaches in bowl 

days at Culver Military Academy. 
"I haven't said a word about it to the team," Holtz continued. ''I'd just rather they not know about it. If this team needs something like this for motiva­tion, we're in deep trouble." 
In fact, he has not said a sin­gle solitary word about it to the team. Not at practice, at films, or in special meetings. He hasn't even told them matter of 

$J~J1Af.F 
271-0125 
GOOD THROUGH 9/7/9S NOT VALID WITH ANY OTHER COUPON ONE COUPON PER ORDER 
LOCATED AT THE 
CAMPUS SHOPPES 


WE DELIVER 
$8.00 MINIMUM ORDER 
GAME DAY~PECIAL WELCOME 
•CHIC~~;~RICE IRIsH FANS 
=~~~A~~EESE WONTON 2 7 1 .., 0 1 2 5
•FORTUNE COOKIE ·.. ·· · · · ··· 
_ Delivery Hours: 271 0125 Sun-Thurs. 4:30 pm-1:00 am GOOD THROUGH 9/7/9S Fri-Sat 4:30 pm-2:00 am 
NOT VALID WITH ANY OTHER COUPON • ONE COUPON PER ORDER 
"I didn't even realize he was going for 200 until a couple of days ago, when I heard it on the radio," Powlus said. "But I think it could become an atti­tude going into the game, once everyone realizes it is a mile­stone win for him." 
The team may think of it that way, but the coach refuses to. It's just the first of many steps toward the national champi­onship. 
appearances and fourth in AP The Observer/Mike Ruma Irish head coach Lou Holtz is 199-89-?lifetime.
Top-25 fmishes. 
"Third, it tells me I've been in the game a long, long time." The coach was on his way out 
And earned a lot of respect to practice with football on his and fans. He wouldn't turn one mind. He had just gotten out of down if he had a plane to catch. the film room, where he proba­
Monday afternoon, as Holtz bly found something that need­was cruising out to practice in ed improvement in every phase his golf cart, a mother and son of the game. Chances are, he stood waiting at the gate to the wasn't the happiest camper, practice field. The mother having just worried for two requested a photo opportunity. hours about how unprepared 
t100 
OFF
~ANY PURCHASE 
271-0125
u's 
GOOD THROUGH 9/7/95 NOT VALID WITH ANY OTHER COUPON ONE COUPON PER ORDER 
'\\ 

Now HIRING
\ 

.lf_lr~ DRIVERS AND SERVERS 
~~""~' ~ 
ll.~-~~~~~. 
~~~·:~; 
~ ',_!l) ~ ~. 
~~f\ ~ 


• FLEXIBLE SCHEDULE 
•ToP PAY 
•MEAL DISCOUNTS 
•EOE 
PICK UP APPLICATION AT RESTAURANT 
DINNER f!>,R TWO 
$9.­
•CHICKEN 
FRIED RICE 

•CHICKEN 
SAUTEED NOODlES 

•2 
EGG ROLlS 

•:Z 
CREAM CHEESE WONTONS 

•!FORTUNE 
COOKIES 


271-0125 
GOOD THROUGH 9/7/95 NOT VALID Wll'H ANY OTHER COUPON • ONE COUPON PER ORDER 
the team was for their game, as every coach might. 

"Sure," he said, and he even waited patiently while the mother flagged down a manag­er to take the picture. 
"It's all around you here," he said. "I guess I'm just the kind of guy who notices these things." 

-
page 7 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA Friday, September 1, 1995 
-



The Key: 
CF: Chris Fowler 
LC: Lee Corso 
CJ: Craig James 
r-'an you comment on yourL experiences at Notre Dame for the Florida State game in 
1993? 
LC : I thought when I came here that Florida State was going to win the ballgame and I picked Florida State to win on the air. But as I went down to the Notre Dame campus and 
saw the Pep Hally, I said the night before on air 'Can I change my mind'. 
Unless a foot­ball team is a lot better than Notre Dame eoming into this environment, Notre Dame is tough to beat at home. CF : The whole idea of taking Gameday on 
the road really started at that FSU/Notre Dame game. 
w.
y do think the Irish have uch an advantage at home? LC : Notre Dame is tough here because of the tradition and the fact that the fans and students are loyal. They never let the Irish get down in any game. 
The students are great -they have great enthusiasm. The secret to Notre Dame is the tra­dition. The people that come here love Notre Dame and they love football. It's a great com­bination. CJ : Gameday is 
[ *' •• ~­
~l 
.J i 
Observer Associate Sports Editor Tim Sherman had a chance to sit down with ESPN analysts Chris Fowler, Lee Corso and Craig James. Here are some excerpts 
from their conversation: 
because it gives Chris a chance to get out and meet some peo­ple. (jokingly) CF : We were at the Michigan game last year and let me say that it was a lot louder in the Joyce Center after the FSU game than Michigan. The spirit at the FSU game, which came across on the broadcast, was what inspired management to take this show on the road. CJ : It gives us a chance to see games. We're so locked in on all the games in the studio that when we do get get out, we have the power of the games. 

THE PICKS 
TOPS 
1. 
Florida State 

2. 
Nebraska 

3. 
Penn State 4.Texas A&M 


5. Florida 
Heisman Choices 
Leeland McElroy Lawrence Philips Eddie George 
BY CHRIS FOWLER 
Our depth of knowledge increases tremendously. 
D
o any other schools compare with Notre Dame? CF Right there with ND is Nebraska. We were there twice last year and people were out three hours before the show with 
their faces painted and waving signs. 
TA Jhat about the chances for Jl Jl the Irish this season? 
CF : There is no way the Irish will be 6-5-1; they're too good for that. 
Offensively, I think they'll score a lot of points. The offen­sive line is going to be a lot bet­ter. The only question national­ly is whether the defense is a top five defense. Have they addressed the speed factor enough? Until people are shown that. there will still be reservations about whether this team is a national champi­
contender . 
LC : I they've improved. They were gritty and played their best in their tough games like Florida State and USC, but if you don't have speed you can't coach it. CF : Plus, the schedule is a lot more favorable, playing the three service academies. I think there is some sort of con­nection between playing three service academies and winning the national championship. CJ : They say Farmer and Kinder are going to be good. They'll be a better backfield because of Derrick Mayes and Ron Powlus. If the offensive line is as good as they're hop­ing, they should have a very good offense. CF : I think they are going to have a very well-balanced 
offense. Using Kinder gives them more of the breakaway speed running back that they haven't had in the past. You don't have the toughness like Becton and Zellars gave, but they definitely have more speed. CJ : It will be more of a finesse offense this year. CF : People have been waiting for Kinder to be a full-time back ever since he got on cam­pus. It's his time to shine. 
LC : Their chances to go unde­feated at home this season are very good and with their ability to come back, on the road they're going to get better and better. They have tough games on the road this year at Ohio State and Washington but I think Notre Dame will be back. I think USC is a good football team but I don't see them beat­ing Notre Dame here. CF : If you look at Notre Dame's schedule, I just don't get it with people ranking USC as a top two or three team. I think they'll be good but they're not proven at quarterback. 
Photo courtesy of ESPN College Football GameDay's big guns (from left) Craig "The Pony" James, Chris Fowler and "The Coach", Lee Corso. 
.. 

CF : I think you'll see someone he will. from a bad team put up some big numbers like (Chris) TA Jhat are your impressions Darkins (of Minnesota) or Eddie Jl V ofthe Hall ofFame? 
CJ Mike Alstott (Purdue) is for real. He's the next Tom Rathman. I like him as a player. 
TA Jhat about JIVR o n Pow/us? 
LC : I like Ron Powlus. I think he is much bet­ter in person than on film, much quicker. He throws well. 


LC : I'm ve 

TOPS 
1. Nebraska 2.Texas A&M 
3. 
Florida State 

4. 
Auburn 

5. 
Penn State 


Heisman Choices 
Leeland McElroy Danny Kanell Mike Alstott 
BY CRAIG JAMES 
. very impressed with it. It's a definite stop for anybody who loves college football. Nothing's better than coming for a weekend to Notre Dame. Going to cam­
~ua~~ ~~~n~o~~ 
munion, and then the Hall of Fame. It's like dying and com­ing back. CF : It's better 

he's a legiti­than I expected. But the thing 
mate Heisman Trophy candi­is, you just hope that enough date this year and definitely people will be able to see it. next year if he stays around, CJ: Yeah, who's going to come and judging by his personality, to South Bend? 
CJ : I'm different than him. CF : I'm not saying they're not a good team. They will win the Pac-10, but when you talk about being that high, you're saying they're going to run the table. 
TA Jho do you like for Jl VHeisman? 
CF : I like Leeland McElroy (Texas A&M). I think he's bet­ter than Stephen Davis (of Auburn). Nebraska's Lawrence Phillips has a chance but I don't think (Tommy) Frazier can win it. He's going to split with Brook Berringer and Tommy won't get the stats. It's tough for an option quarterback to get votes. McElroy will get a tons of a carries. CJ : Danny Kanell has a shot too. FSU's tough. 
Photos courtesy of Florida State and Ohio State Sports Information 
Florida State's Danny Kanell (left) ­and Ohio State's Eddie George (right) are two of thE) leading Heisman Trophy candidates, according to the GameDay staff. 


r 
Friday, September 1, 1995 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA page 8 ~ 
-
I 
I 
I 
i 
~ 
I I 
I 
! 
... 
• JOCK STRIP 
An enjoying evening of cam.pus cam.ping 
Much like the out-
· is is Notre Dame rageously atrocious 're talking about, aroma that lives be­evening spent on tween P.W. and gum-stained con­Flanner, the annual of Gate 10 of the rite of non-seniors ACC is insane camping out for foot­enough. ball tickets is one of Tim Sherman If you step back a those unique aspects Associate Sports minute, you'll realize of Notre Dame that is Editor the "experience" actu­difficult to explain. ally captures the 
It would be one thing if we essence of ND. Footballs fly­were not guaranteed tickets ing through the air, beers in and had to migrate to tents to the hands of many, high­secure our ducats like Duke lighters in the hands of some. students do for hoop games. In fact, the evening is a 
However, all we need to do dorm party or even an open­is take a quick stroll down to air Bridget's. Stepping over the JACC any time through­and around a mob of inebri­out the day and purchase our ated people and "Stuck in the tickets for the entire season. Middle With You" blaring in 
But we take it upon our­the backround. Ah, college. selves to transform this mun-Sure, there is always the dane exercise into an entire chance that Coach Holtz will sleep-depraved evening pop down and visit, but it is under the ethanol-tinted air this social atmosphere which of the South Bend sky. brings blanket-toting, cooler­
So why do we do it? carrying Domers from all 
For one thing, it's not really across campus together. going to improve our seat, or But before we get too car­should I say lxl plot of ried away, it all comes back standing room. In reality, the to football and tradition. only thing that determines Notre Dame does a great job your seat is how many beers of taking neither for granted. you drink out on Green Field, Whatever, the reason, not your section number. sleeping out is one of those 
Now that we have estab­numerous Notre Dame tradi­lished that there is no sane tions that set us apart from reason, we must turn to the everybody. Fortunately, we insanity of it. And considering enjoy ourselves. 

PREY· 
TEAM RECORD POINTS IOUS 
1. Florida St.(31) 10-1-1 1498 4 2. N_ebraska(15) 13-0 1439 1 3. TexasA&M 10-0-1 1366 8 


4. Penn State 12-0 1308 2 5. Florida(6) 10-2-1 1299 7 6. Auburn(2) 9-1-1 1238 9 7.USC 8-3-1 1151 13 8-4 1024 22

~:' 8. Teoo.,see(1)
)9. Notre Dame 6-5-1 1011 -­·1o.Aiabama 12-1 974 5 11.Miami 10-2 893 6 12.0hio State 9-4 863 14 13.Colorado 11-1 689 3 14.Michigan 8-4 642 12 6-6 527 -­

~15.0•ehome 
16.UCLA 5-6 517 -­17.Virginia 9-3 516 15 18.Texas 8-4 368 25 19.Arizona 8-4 337 20 20.North Carolina 8-4 290 -­21.Wisconsin 7-4-1 270 -­
7-4-1 263 23

~~ 22.Bostoo Coll'9'
1 23.West Virginia 7-6 215 -­_)24.Virginia Tech 8-4 196 ' 25.Washington 9-4 196 -­

t======================CJ:=JM 
• GAMES OF INTEREST 
#11 MIAMI at #16 UCLA 

After a tough summer for the Hurricanes, they open up with a tough game. Their new coach, Butch Davis, is cleaning up their act. The Bruins want to clean them up. 
#13 COLORADO at #21 WISCONSIN 
New Buffalo head coach Rick Neuheisel hopes to carry on the Bill McCartney tradition. The Badgers hope to avenge an early season loss to Colorado a year ago. 
#14 MICHIGAN at ILLINOIS 

Following their comeback over Virginia a week ago, the Wolverines look to keep their momentum going against a stingy Illini defense. led by Simeon Rice. 
• The Irish Eldra Staff 
Editor: Mike Norbut Managing Editor: Tim Sherman Associate Editor: Tim Seymour Graphic Desi~:n,: Chris Mullins, Tom Roland Contributing Writers: Andy Cabiness, 
Megan McGrath 
• PEERLESS·PROGNOSTICATORS 





Mike Norbut Tim Seymour Tim Sherman 
(0-0) (0-0) (0-0) Notre Dame Notre Dame 
Notre Dame Miami UCLA 
UCLA 

Wisconsin Colorado 
Colorado Illinois Illinois 
Michigan 

Papa Predicts: 
Notre Dame 35 
Northwestern 10 

''The Most Popular # on Campt1s'' Notre Dame Saint Mary's I University Villaae 
271-1177 271-7272 (Now with 2 locations to better serve you!)  
Notre Dame Store Hours  eJ Voted "Best Delivered Pizza''' -1994 Best of Michiana  Saint Mary's Store Hours*  

Mon-Th 
I lam-lam Fri-Sat 
llam-3am Sun Noon-lam 
~Voted "Best Delivered Pizza" 
-1995 Best of Michiana 
~ Voted "Best Delivered Pizza" 
-1993-94 Observer 
Mon-Sat I lam-lam 
Sunday Noon-lam 

-

r  -----,  r  -Pa,;jpa"Ck ­ ,  r LateNifesi:c/ai ,  r Largeflopping ,  r -LunchSpfCia/ ,  
I  Large  I I  4Large  I I  Large  I I  Bread Stix  I I 1 Small 2Topping I  
I II  1Topping Pizza I I 1Topping Pizzas I I s95 I I s 9 I I 6 ·• I I 22 5·• I I  1Topping Pizzas5~!-c~:7e  I I I I I I  2Cokes I I s I I1000 ·• I I  2Cokes I$ 1• 695 ·• I  

L-----..J L-----.J L-----~ L-----.J L------.J 
*From 1:00am-3:00am lfri/Sat Onlv) Call the ND Store for Deliverv Service 




