
Friday, March 31, 1995• Vol. XXVI No. 113 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

BySUZYFRY 
Managing Editor 
I
n the 34 short years of his life, Dr. Thomas Dooley, class of 1948, became known as more than a war hero and medical missionary. He embodied a humanitarian spirit that continues to influence the lives of mil­lions everywhere. However, his life remains a mystery and a miracle. 
Dooley's story begins with the over 
80.000 patients he treated in the first 18 months of his naval career. It continues with the two dozen hospitals and orphanages he established throughout Cambodia, Laos and Vietnam under the auspices of the MEDICO organization he later established and funded via the still existent Thomas Dooley Foundation. 
Remembering Tom Dooley ... 
A look at the doctor, humanitarian, officer, and favorite son ofNotre Dame 
The public disclosure of his "undesirable discharge" from the military due to his homosexuality under the Freedom of Information Act leads Dooley's story to Notre Dame, 1995. 
With the recent campus controversy between the University and the unrecog­nized group, Gays and Lesbians of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, Dooley has entered a debate that few, if any, know where he would have stood. Moreover, in this debate, the character and achievements of the real Tom Dooley appear to have been lost. 
"I saw him in life and I saw him in work and I saw him in death. If some­one asked me if I thought he could be canonized, I would not hesitate to say that he could-but I think he would be a 
see DOOLEY I page 4 

By EDWARD IMBUS 
Associate News Editor 
Plans to build the Marie De­Bartolo Center for Performing Arts have reached a stopping point, and have been placed on hold until the funding has been properly secured. 
Initial designs were com­pleted in 1993 for the 155,000 square foot building, and have been improved on since then, but "have now been shelved for the time being," according to a senior administration official. 
The building is to be built pri­marily with donations from the $33 million commitment by the late Edward DeBartolo Sr. in 1989, of which $14 million was 

Arts center on hold until funding secure 
earmarked for the center. 

Project funding was slowed and complicated, however, by the death of DeBartolo last De­cember, which caused his es­tate to enter probate to be properly divided in accordance with DeBartolo's will. 
At the time of his death, De­Bartolo was worth an estimated $860 million dollars. 
The University still plans to build the center projected to cost between $30-40 million, "pending resolution of fund­ing," said George Mason, vice president of Business Affairs. 
Director of Development Daniel Reagan said that DeBar­
see ARTS/ page 6 
Sorin Society pays weekend visit to ND 

The Observer/Mike Ruma 

Dr. John O'Malley, Mary Jo Spaulding and Veronica Smidt examine a model of a human heart, a 
site that will be more common thanks to a joint medical degree program announced by Notre 
Dame and Indiana University. 



On the cutting edge 
The idea came about as an option for stu­Unique ND/IU medical dents who are interested in both graduate degrees in science and medical degrees,program combines according to Francis Castellino, Dean of Notre Dame's College of Science and a bio­doctoral degrees chemist who conducts a major research pro­
gram in blood coagulation. 
By LIZ FORAN 

"Scientists trained for both M.D. and Ph.D. 
Associate News Editor 

degrees will make important contributions that bridge the gap between clinical medi­Despite the long hours and seemingly end­
cine and basic life sciences," he said. 
less work they are experiencing as under­

The program is unique in that it is perhaps
graduates, many students at Notre Dame 

the only joint M.D./Ph.D. program in the na­
and throughout the nation still aspire to 

tion combining a private university and a
achieve a higher degree by going on to grad­

public or state school, according to John 0'­
uate school, medical school or law school. 

Malley, director of the South Bend Center for 
For a selected few, however, that goal can 

Medical Education (SBCME).
set even higher through a new M.D.!Ph.D. 

"It's a model program, really," he said. "It
dual degree program organized jointly by 

is unique in the sense that it is the only
Notre Dame and Indiana University. The program is set to begin this fall. 


see MD I page 6 

By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
Associate News Editor 
About 800 members of the Edward Frederick Sorin Society will be visiting the campus this weekend to be recognized as the most generous donors to the University. 
Due to the events planned by the society in honor of its mem­bers, North Dining Hall will be closed to students during din­ner on Saturday. South Dining Hall will remain open. 
The Sorin Society, established in 1976, is composed of alumni, parents and friends of the University who make annual unrestricted contributions to the scho.ol in the amount of $1000 or greater. To express its appreciation of its donors, the University hosts "A Weekend of Recognition" every other year for society members who wish to visit and learn more about the school. 
"The members are very inter­ested in knowing about the cur­rent issues in education today," said Daniel Regan, dir.ector of development for the society. "They want to know how the University operates. 
"Plus, many alumni members have a nostalgic view of their days on campus," Regan added. "They take a great deal of pride in Notre Dame." 
And that pride shows. In 1994, the group provided more than $7 million to be used as the University sees fit. The department most greatly bene­fited by the society was the Office of Financial Aid, which was granted about $2.5 million. 
The campus computer upgrades in recent years, including those done to DeBartolo Hall, were also a result of the society's funds. 
"The money is pooled and ap­plied to the most urgent needs of the University," said Reagan. 
see SORIN/ page 6 
~ ~ -~--~-~~-------------------­
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, March 31, 1995 

Coping with 
the SYR 

dilemma 
I think we're a bunch of wimps. And I'd like to call this problem to your attention, especially before a weekend full of dances and other social events on campus. The problem lies in hook-up fallout. You know what this is, and now is not the time to hide from your embarrassing post dance/date past. 
Here's the problem: You spend an evening with your companion and that's it. No phone call, notthe next day, and probably not the day after that. So I have a proposition. Let's make a new rule. Call the next day, re­gardless of the type of time you had -hook­up or no. If we all make an obligation to do this, we'd alleviate the confusion, the pain, the embarrassment. The goal here is to dif­fuse the awkwardness. 
It's almost like a post game wrap-up the next day. You get some quotes from the perti­nent players. You soon learn the good, the bad, the ugly -won't let you forget the ugly. 
Okay, okay. Worst case scenario: You didn't have a good time, and you got together. You could bore them with any range of ambiguous excuses, but it's best to get to the point. Perhaps you could say, in the immortal words of Homer Simpson, "Welcome to Splitsville, baby. Population: You." Or a kinder, gentler approach might go something like this: "I had a good time, thank you, but I'm still kinda in denial about the whole thing." True, rejec­tion stinks, but we all get over it and at least you know that you stand no chance in hell. 
At the opposite end of the spectrum, maybe you did have a good time and there does exist potential for another encounter. Although most of us observe the theory that calling the next day is solely for the over-anxious neurot­ic, that's not necessarily the case. Nothing is wrong with a quick "Thanks again, gotta study." It's actually polite. And you know there's a glimmer of hope. If you can't bring yourself to follow the 24 hour rule, at least adopt the "call within 48 hours rule." Who calls whom? It doesn't matter, just as long as someone is bold. 
Otherwise, you either dismiss the whole 
evening and come to terms with never seeing 
this person again or you become bitter. By 
the end of the week with no call, names like 
Yoda, Chewbacca, and Captain-Dance-with­
the-Hair-Slicked-Back are being given to a 
person who is probably harmless. kind, and 
undeserving of such hostile titles. 
In the unlikely event that your date had to 
leave the dance or event due to~llness or 
excessive behavior problems (in other words, 
you got dissect), it's probably best not to call. 
Instead, send a thank you note through cam­
pus mail. "Feel better soon" or "Seek thera­
py" both work well. The note approach also 
works well with those who insist on talking 
about some significant other (i.e. not you) 
throughout the course of the entire evening. 
My point is that with a few simple rules 
about making the call or sending the card, we 
can alleviate the confusion while the damage 
of any potential confrontation can be held to 
a minimum. Thus we can devote more time 
to what's really important in life, like our 
studies, Sega, and Seinfeld. Date and/or 
hook-up fallout is a reality we must all deal 
with one day. There's no reason to be a 
schmuck about it. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

• TODAY'$ STAff  
News  Production  
Kristi Kolski  Belle Bautista  
Mark Huffman  Jackie Moser  
Sports  
Andy Cabiness  Accent  
Matt Casey  Andrea Jordan  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Bridget Green  Nicki Batill  
Meaghan Smith  Graphics  
Victoria Pratte  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

• WORlD AT A GLANCE 
Army plans withdrawal from six West Bank towns 

JERUSALEM 

The army has drawn up a plan that would uproot military bases from six West Bank towns but leave troops in Hebron, where fric­tion is high between Jewish settlers and Arab residents, officials said Thursday. 
The plan is part of a strategy to persuade the Palestine Liberation Organization to Mcept a troop withdrawal on a much smaller scale than Israel promised in the original Israel-PLO agreement. 
Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin is under intense pressure to address public disenchantment with the accord, which has grown with each successive attack by Palestinian militants who killed 60 Israelis in five months. 
In exchange for the scaled-back withdrawal, the officials said, Israel is willing to make concessions in other areas, such as the size and powers of the Palestinian council that will govern the West Bank and Gaza Strip. 
Under the initial Israel-PLO accord, troops were to have pulled out from all West Bank towns by July 1994. Israel refused to move its troops after the five-month killing spree by Palestinian mili­tants opposed to peacemaking with Israel. 
The redeployment plan drawn up by the army's West Bank command would move army bases from major towns, starting with Jenin, because no Jews live in or near the city, an Israeli offi­cial said on condition of anonymity. Pullouts in Nablus, Tulkarem, Qalqiliya, Ram allah and Bethlehem would follow. 
One Israeli official said a "creative solution" was needed for troublespots like Hebron. Possibilities include pulling out soldiers but leaving behind Israeli police. 
Tyson says he'll stick with Don King 
CLEVELAND 
Mike Tyson needed only 76 seconds -about as long as it takes him to knock out some opponents -to reaf­firm that Don King will lead his quest to regain the heavyweight champi­onship. "Don is the greatest promoter in the world, as we know," Tyson said Thursday in his first public comments since his release from prison Saturday. 

Tyson's closest friends were said to have urged him to break ties with his longtime promoter over a number of matters, including King's alleged mismanagement of the 28-year-old boxer's business affairs. Tyson said his fights will be televised by the Showtime cable network, and his bouts will be at the MGM Grand in Las Vegas. Tyson didn't mention when he hopes to return to the ring, but the chairmain of the MGM Grand expects him to fight within six months. "I want to associate myself with the biggest and the best," Tyson said, "and I look for­ward to working with them and seeing you soon." 
Man convicted in attack on FedEx crew 
MEMPHIS A jury rejected an insanity defense Thursday and con­victed a former Federal Express pilot of attacking the crew of a FedEx jet with a hammer and spear gun at 18,000 feet. Auburn Calloway, 42, could get 20 years to life in prison for attempted air piracy. No date was set for sentencing. Witnesses said Calloway feared he was about to be fired, and Assistant U.S. Attorney John Fowlkes told the jury he may have wanted to crash the plane so his children could collect on a $250,000 acci­dental-death insurance policy. A suicide note addressed to his ex-wife, and found aboard the DC-10, spoke of wanting to provide for the education of their two children at his alma mater, Stanford University, where tuition, room and board cost about $27,000 a year. According to testimony, Calloway, the lone passenger on the plane, burst into the cockpit and attacked the crew with a spear gun and one of four hammers he had carried aboard in a guitar case. 

School a hazardous place for teens 
ATLANTA 
School can be hazardous to a teen's health, according to the government's first nationwide survey of schoolyard violence. More than one in 10 high school students said they carried a weapon on school property, and nearly one-fourth of those surveyed said they were offered, sold or given drugs on campus. About 16,000 students in grades nine through 12 in public and private schools were asked about school-related violence -as well as sex, exercise, diet and smoking -in the 1993 survey by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The results were released Thursday. "Violence in the school is a major health problem for teens," said Dr. Marjorie Hogan, a Minneapolis pediatrician and a spokeswoman for the American Academy of Pediatrics. "This study should be a call to action, a rallying point." The survey was prompted by the national education goals set by the government in 1989. They called for every school to be free of drugs and violence by the year 2000. Finding a solution is "a major problem for schools, but an even greater problem for the community," Geiger said. 
Lottery losers suffer stress disorder 
LONDON 
You've heard of lottery fever, even lottery mania? Now comes lottery stress disorder. Dr. Robert Hunter, a psy­chiatrist at the Gartnavel Royal Hospital in Glasgow, said he's discovered an outbreak of lottery-losers suffering from "deflation of mood and feelings of hopelessness," leading to inebriation. Translation: They get drunk every week after failing to become millionaires. "We have noted several cases of this compulsive behavior in the clinic and are at a loss to know how to help the suffer­ers," Hunter said in a letter to be published in Saturday's British Medical Journal. "We have given the condition the provisional name of lottery stress disorder, or LSD." Hunter wrote the letter to elicit responses from other psychiatrists who may be treating similarly affected indi­viduals. Dr. Lawrence Price, a psychiatrist at Yale University, said the syndrome does not exist in lottery­crazed America. 




.---------~--------------------------------------~---~~ 
Friday, March 31, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 3 

Ross: Delor's policies to 



SMC unites juniors, moms 
play role in new Europe 
By LIZ RANKIN NewsWricer 

By DAN CICHALSKI "Intergovernmental change News Wricer opened opportunities for con­
Today marks the beginning
stitutional change," explained 
of this year's Saint Mary's Col­
The ten years of Jack Delor's Ross, "and this allowed the lege Junior Mother/Daughterinvolvement with the European European Commission to step Weekend. This weekend, up as a leader."
Commission had a profound March 31-April 2, signifies a
Delor's political background
effect on the European special turning point in the Community and will play a and personal opinions pro­lives of many Saint Mary's
major role in the future of the pelled him to the forefront of juniors.continent during integration. the organization and put him According to junior Nancy"Jack Delor dominated the in good standing with the other 
Schwoyer, Chairman of the Ju­European Commission for a countries, said Ross. His ideas nior Mother/Daughter week­decade," said George Hoss, on economic policy paralleled 
end, this weekend has tradi­professor of labor and social those of Germany and, as a tionally been one for juniors to 
thought and the chair of the result, Delor was able to per­
share with mothers their Saint Graduate Program of Sociology suade the German government Mary's experience: their
that more power and control as
at Brandeis University. friends, their home-away-from­
According to Ross, the overall well as doubling structural home, and their lives they have setup of Europe in the early community funds would be in made here at Saint Mary's. 1980s provided the perfect sit­the best interest of the country 
This marks the first time that uation for Delor to step in and as well as the continent. many juniors will enter into the make an impact. Europe was The Delors Era in the Euro­bonds of friendship with their 
at a point at which it could rise pean Commission has brought mothers; it is an occasion for up and become a leader in the the continent to where it is to­
participating juniors to show world or take a turn downward day in terms of integration and their mothers how, over the
the majority of their policies
when the European past few years, they have 
Commission went to work to are still in effect. Ross believes grown and changed. Often,help the continent to the fore­Europe cannot go much further this is an opportunity that is front of the world's stage. in the state it is in today. 1996, 
not usually afforded to juniors"The European Commission he said, will be a critical year while visiting home. 
saw itself responsible for keep­in that the continent, as a Junior Class Vice President 


--f!i-­
SaintMary's College Junior 1\tlother/Daughter Weekend 1995 Friday, March 31 
5:00 p.rn•;:lii'!'YTH':Win... e and Cheese Reception Stapleton
7:()() p:m. '!!'' 

8:00 ~m. "Artmoves" Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Theatre and Dance 
Saturday~ Aprill 

11:00 ~1;11),, ., Reception Century 
11:30 a.m. Center 
11:30 a.m. Welcome, Lunch and ';"", Fashion Show 
5:30p.m. Mass Loretto O'laughlin

8:00 P,i~,~~lli~;'f?'t+:;~~~~a~~~·~~~i~!~y's Sunday, April 2 
9:00 a.m. -Continental Breakfast Stapleton 
11:00 a.m. 

2:30p.m. "Artmoves" Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Theatre and Dance 
The Observer/ Robert Bollman, Jr. 
end's activities is. however, the from Ganto's, a University Park 
ing civilization alive," said whole, must act to determine Erin Shern, expressed an ex­
reception, lunch, and fashion Mall store. According to
Hoss. "Delor considered his whether they will move for­
citement for this weekend's 
show at the South Bend Cen­Schwoyer, unlike a runway
position to be more than a job; ward or backward as the twen­events that is shared by many 
tury Center on Saturday. show, the fashion show will
he was taking on the re­ty-first century approaches. 
of her peers. She said, ''I'm 
Schwoyer said, "We opted to prove to be light-hearted. She
sponsibility of seeing Europe "Without Delor's contribu­really looking forward to 
present the luncheon with a also said, "This .is a time to
tions, there wouldn't be any­
survive as it was on the de­exploring a new relationship 
more casual overtone, so as to talk to your mom, enjoy the
cline." thing to look forward to in 
with my mom, one of friend­
allow the mothers and daugh­events, and sit back and take it 
With England's mild hatred terms of integration; there 
ship." 

ters to feel more relaxed." all in." 
wouldn't be anything to talk
for the continent and Ger­Tonight, the weekend will of­
Saint Mary's English Profes­The committee felt that it was
many's history in international about and we wouldn't be at ficially begin with a Wine and 
sor, and professional story­important to leave both Friday
affairs during this century, this point today." Cheese reception. According to 
teller, Carole Walton, will pro­and Saturday evenings open for 
Ross has written numerous
Delor and France became the Schwoyer, this will be a time 
vide the entertainment by pre­the students and their mothers
most logical choice as leaders books, the most recent dealing for juniors to introduce their 
senting a tale about a mother­to spend their free time doing
in Europe and the Commission. with Delor's presidency in the 
mothers to and socialize with 
daughter relationship. whatever they wish. 
Economic and political differ­European Commission. He the friends that they have made 
Following this will be a fash­Junior Stacey Polito said,
ences created barriers between spoke yesterday on "The Delors over their almost three-year 
ion show, showcasing Saint ''I'm looking forward to show-
nations but with the rise of the Era and the Future of Eu­stay at Saint Mary's. 
Mary's College Freshmen mod­
European Commission the situ­ropean Integration" at the The highlight of this week­
eling the new Spring collection see JUNIOR/ page 6
ation changed. Hesburgh Center. 
PROVOST'S DISTINGUISHED LECTURE SERIES THEOLOGY DEPARTMENT ELIZABETH JOHNSON, CSJ PROFESSOR OF THEOLOGY, FORDHAM UNIVERSITY ''THE THEOLOGICAL SEARCH FOR THE LIVING GOD'' MONDAY, APRIL 3, 1995 8 P.M. CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION PUBLIC IS INVITED  

page4 The Observer • NEWS Friday, March 31, 1995 

Dooley 
continued from page 1 
little shocked," said University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh. "When you are with somebody as they are dying, that gives you some insight into their life." 
"Dooley's life, his public life, [was] absolutely untarnished," Hesburgh notes. "I have no inclination to judge Tom Dooley on anything but what I saw." 
"Anyone hoping to under­stand Tom Dooley must first concede that we can only can only see him through the infi­nitely variegated perspectives of others," writes James Fisher, an associate professor of American Studies at Yale University, in Commonweal magazine. 
"Dooley's story is extraordi­narily, maddeningly complex," continues Fisher. "Having interviewed nearly two hun­dred of his friends and associ­ates, I can attest that the con­tradictions in the man's charac­ter multiply exponentially even as we seek some definitive con­clusions in his compelling, trag­ic journey to celebrity and sainthood." 
At the same time, however, "Tom Dooley is one of the most distinguished alumni we have had," said Hesburgh. So much so that he was presented with an honorary doctorate degree in 1960 along with President Eisenhower and Pope Paul VI, who reached the Vatican three years later. Dooley also wrote several books on his experience in South East Asia, including "Deliver Us from Evil," "The Edge of Tomorrow," "The Night They Burned the Mountain" and the children's book "Doctor Tom Dooley, My Story." 

"He touched the lives of thou­sands to the point of pain," said Hesburgh. 
Of the many he touched was one Clifford Anchor, now a retired lieutenant colonel in the California National Guard and a member of the presidentially appointed Selective Service. As of 1992, Anchor was believed to be the highest-ranking military officer to disclose his homosex­uality and still maintain his position, according to The Bay Area Reporter. 
"Tom taught me to believe in God, to believe in the spirituali­ty of humanity. Since Tom's death, I have modeled my life upon these principles," Anchor said. 
Fisher also illumines in his article that "Dooley constantly sought to restore the faith of others in the Church without revealing much of his personal situation, other than to state that he did not know how any­one could live without belief in God." 
"His quest was as a healer and as a peace-keeper. He did this with strength and gentle­ness. My quest is to eliminate prejudice, wherever it exists. Weeping for ourselves and for our country is not enough. As the beacon that America pur­ports itself to be, we must elim­inate prejudice and hatred here for it to be eliminated abroad," Anchor said. 
According to Anchor, the two met in 1958 after a long corre­spondence regarding Dooley's work in South East Asia. Anchor was to join Dooley in Laos in 1959, but the doctor's melanoma progressed to the point where he was forced to return to the U.S. prior Anchor's arrival. Dooley's commitment to basic humani­tarian principles inspired 
The Style Co., Inc... It's about being your own person; It's about making a statement; It's about doing something different... 
"Alternative Clothing for Today's Woman" 
Layaway and Alterations Available 
Hours
THE 

M-F 10-8
STYLE 

Sat 10-6CO., INC. Sun 12-4 
687-9123 • 1912 S. lith in Niles 
In the newly remodeled Belle Plaza 2-1/2 Mi. North of State Line 

,--Welvant--------------1 
You... To Teach Aerobics! 


Earn Extra$$$ While Staying In Shape Here Is How: 
**Pick up an Aerobic Instructor Application from the RecSports office. Return the completed form Sunday, April2. **Attend an Aerobics Workshop on Sunday, April 2, 12:00-2:00, Rockne 301. This workshop will provide basic information on instruction as well as polish other teaching skills. We will also be teaching a routine which each individual must perfol"I'"! at the instructor auditions April 21. Please bring a blank cassette tape. **Set up an interview with Jennie Phillips, Fitness 
L 
Coordinator at 631-5965. _j Anchor to join the early Civil Anchor concealed his homosex­sergeant in the Air Force and Rights Movement in San uality until 1990. was not awarded the due Francisco after Dooley's death In addition to his military recognition he deserved, with in 1961, focusing his efforts on involvement beyond the an honorary plaque on his homosexual as well as African­California National Guard and grave site in the Congressional American rights. the Selective Service, he was Cemetery in Washington, D.C. 
As a broadcaster for the asked to participate in a mis­Upon completion of the mission, 100,000 watt radio station sion for the U.S. Customs Bush sent a certificate to the KAFE, Anchor was able to Intelligence Agency in Panama Matlovich family. A bronze bring gay rights to the forefront plaque with the certificate of American culture. emblazoned upon it will be Particularly so after a 1964 placed on the site on May 31.
' Jfsomeone asked
New Years Eve incident at the When asked why he main­
me if I thought 

Hearst Building's California tains his position within the Hall in San Francisco where the [Tom Dooley] could be military, Anchor responded: "I San Francisco Chief of Police have found a better fight can be
canonized, I would not 
Thomas Cahill threatened to waged from a more equal play­arrest gay rights supporters for hesitate to say that he ing field. I was given the attending. opportunity to increase my
could.'

Anchor was covering the leverage within the military. event for KAFE and was inter­took this opportunity so I could viewing Hal Kohl of the change the military." 
University President 
Mattachine Society (the oldest A more comprehensive
Emeritus Father Theodore 
homophile organization in account of Anchor's and
Hesburgh
America) when Cahill made the Dooley's experiences within the threat, so Anchor proceeded to military can be found in Randy tape him. Kohl notified Anchor Shilts' "Conduct Unbecoming: that Cahill kept his promise. Lesbians and Gays in the U.S. Anchor then played the tape on as a counter-intelligence agent. Military, Vietnam to the Persian the air that evening and gave "In October of 1990, they asked Gulf." many within the gay communi­me to go to Panama to bring However, as Fisher discerns, ty the opportunity to disclose back some documents related "I can understand why Randy their encounters with the to K-8, Noriega's terrorist Shilts needed to tell his limited police. Cahill was forced to squad within the Ministeria de version of Dooley's story, but I resign because of the broad­Justicia. The resident agent must also lament Dooley's con­cast, Anchor said. would not risk walking them tinuing misuse by those less 
"California Hall opened the across for us." Anchor's efforts interested in understanding door for gays to speak of vic­led to the arrest of 53 Noriega than enlisting him in personal timization," Anchor said. cronies, according to an crusades, however legitimate "After the broadcast, main­Associated Press article in The they may be." stream media began to follow San Francisco Chronicle (5 Dec. Much can be discerned from the gay rights movement." 1990). Tom Dooley's commitment to, 
Anchor attributes his efforts However, the story is not that sacrifice for and impact upon within the military and the Civil simple. Anchor only agreed to humanity; however, the only Rights Movement to the pro­the assignment after President person who knows the motiva­found respect and love he had Bush consented to recognize tions behind that commitment, for Dooley. Despite his activity Leonard Matlovich, a friend of sacrifice and impact is Tom within the gay community, Anchor's who had been a Dooley. 
The Notre Dame/St. Mary,s 



Synchronized Swimming Club 
presents: 



the seventh annual 
W A 'ii'~RSSHI©> W! 
Saturday April l at 7 PM Rolfs Aquatic Center 
Admission is free--carne see what we're all about/ 

Friday, March 31, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Students offer peace conference 
By JONATHAN PICCINI 
News Writer 
Students' voices and opinions on the difficulties of es­tablishing and maintaining peace among nations will be heard this Saturday at a stu­dent peace conference. 
"It will be a place where stu­dents can share their academic work regarding peace and jus­tice," said Ron Pagnucco, Notre Dame Peace Studies Association conference coordi­nator. 
The conference will begin with a keynote dialogue featur­ing 1990 Notre Dame ROTC graduates Dan Fehey and Scott Moran. The two alumni will be speaking about peace building and peace keeping, with em­phasis on military versus non­violent means. They will focus on how everyone, activists and soldiers alike, can work togeth­er in peace keeping. Fehey will also be sharing his experience as a conscientious objector in the Gulf War. 
Following the dialogue their will be a viewing of CNN's re­cent documentary "Guardian Warriors." The documentary focuses on the role American troops played in Haiti. 
The second half of the con­ference will consist of two ses­sions of panel discussions focusing on such concerns as the former Yugoslavia, religion, peace and justice, and Haiti. Each panel will consist of three academic presentations by stu­dents and an ensuing discus­
~travel more 
~Carlson Travel Net~Qr_ls
-~ 
Europe!! 

Travclrnore/Carlson Travel Network is your local Europe Travel Specialist 
Lft liS Sfnd you {(1 E11 rope! 
•Airfares *R.1il l'.1~ses 
'( ·.11 1\l'nt.Jis •Experience 

Special STUDENT & FACULTY rates. !.ow airf.ueo. t(l 1-:urope. 1~,1ill';lssc!> issued in our office1 No scrvic!' fl'c! Tinwt.lhl,·~. 1'1'1<·,·,.. t,,.~-_,.h ,\\'.Jil.lhll' 1 I)iscounll'd eM rcntals1 A\·aiiablc in all Europe<~n Countries! Over 20 years experience working with 
Notre Dame & Saint Mary's students and faculty travelling to Europe. 
We know Europe -let us plan your trip! 1723 South Bend Ave. -Next to the Notre D<1mc campus­(21 C)) 271-4880 







APPLI WVFI 
640AM 

sion. 
"I doubt there will be con­sensus [among the students in any of the presentations]," said Pagnucco. 
International students will be present, including two students from Serbia and Croatia. Furthermore, schools including Michigan State University, Manchester College, Purdue University, and Indiana Uni­versity-Fort Wayne will be sending representatives to the conference. 
This Saturday's conference is the third annual "Building Peace" conference. The first was established as a regional gathering to celebrate the 1Oth anniversary of the Notre Dame Peace Studies Program. 
The conference will begin on 9 a.m. Saturday at the Res­burgh Center for International Studies and will continue into the evening. The event is free of charge and will be open to the entire student body. 
•This Saturday ~This Saturday •This Saturday • Come and bring your friends to the 
·N-oTRE: :I)A·W!E:
. . .. 
L·E:.p._RE~CII·4'1J:N Tlt\'·O'IJTS 

oN"~ 

Saturday, April 1eV"~~ 6:00PM 
'1he Pit" Joyce Center Enter Gate 1 Entrance to the Pit is across from the RecSports Office 

WVFI is now accepting applications for the '95-'96 executive board. 

ApplicationJ available outside 
WVFI, 2n floor LaFortune. 
Deadline: Monday, April 3, 5:00PM 

WVFisu 


• STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
SAB offers cheap books for students, community 
By BECKY MAYERNIK 
News Writer 

The Student Activities Board has several events planned that focus on making books cheaper for both students and the com­munity. SAB is planning a half price book sale offered by an outside vendor, on April 12 and 13 in the LeMans lobby. 
Going along with this theme, SAB will also hold a book drive starting April 12. Students and faculty are encouraged to do­nate any used books that they may have to the Gameroom in Haggar College Center, accord­ing to SAB Coordinator Audrey Comrie. The books will then be donated to the community. The organization chosen to receive the books will be determined at a future meeting. 
Other events: 
•Comedian 
Scott Henry will be performing tonight in Haggar Parlor at 9 p.m. 

•The 
SAB movie for tonight is "Four Weddings and a Fu­neral," which will be showing at 7 p.m. and 9:30 p.m. in Carroll Auditorium. 

•Raffie 
tickets to win a date with Barry Williams, formerly known as 'Greg Brady,' are on sale today and Monday in the Dining Hall, costing 2 for $1. In addition to Barry Williams' ap­pearance in O'Laughlin Audito­rium on April 5, there will be an autograph signing and a photo session with the actor following the event. 

•Tickets 
for opening day to the South Bend Silver Hawks on April 9 will be available at the front desk of Haggar next week, as SAB purchased 150 tickets to the game for students. 




~~HarlDUingCo.' 
5804 Grape Rd., Mishawaka 

277-7946 
HOURS: 9 to 8 Sat. 9 to 6 Sun. 11·5 
Jimmy Carter 

1n(~umanlty 
Work Projects 

Los Angeles, California 
June 17-25, 1995 ND will sponsor 1 of30 homes to be built during this "Habitat for Humanity" week. We are looking for 6 students to join 14 alumni in this special project (transportation not included). 
Applications available in the in the Alumni Office 
201 Main Building 

All Applications due April 3 
1@41~
"-"'....... 




The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following positions: 
Viewpoint Copy Editors Assistant Viewpoint Editors 
Please submit a one-page statement of intent and experience to Michael O'Hara in 314 LaFortune by 3 p.m. on Friday, March 31. Any questions cal1631-4541. 
---~ 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Friday, March 31, 1995 


Sorin 
continued from page 1 
The society's membership has grown rapidly in the last 15 years. In 1980, only 80 people were members, but that number has since grown to over 6000. Reagan credits the loyalty of the alumni and word of mouth for the increase in 

Junior 
continued from page 3 
ing my mom around the place I've called home for the past three years." In light of this free time, many juniors and their mothers have also decided to attend the Saint Mary's College Department of Communication, Dance, and Theater production of "Artmoves." Polito also said, 


Arts 
continued from page 1 
tolo family "is positive about continuing funding." 
"Mr. DeBartolo planned well, and his estate will complete the funding" 
membership. "It's a testimony to the Notre Dame constituency that they 
MD 

want to see the University suc­ceed," Reagan said. "Any uni­continued from page 1 
versity would love to have this type of support." 
Reagan stressed that this weekend's activities cost only a minimal portion of the society's donations. Typically, the soci­ety spends about 4 cents per dollar in order to raise funds. 
"Artmoves should be a fun and relaxing part of the weekend." 
The committee is expecting over half of the Junior class and their mothers (over 400 women in total) to participate in this weekend. Schwoyer expressed the enthusiasm of the committee and said, "We're glad to see the work that we began in September is all coming together. We're really excited for a great week­end." 

Reagan said. "The center was very important to DeBartolo because it memorialized his wife." 
Reagan stated that additional funding was being acquired from other benefactors to sup­port additional projects particular to the center, but instance I know of a private university teaming up with a state medical school to offer a M.D./Ph.D. program .." 
"We are trying to integrate programs that are mutually beneficial to both campuses," Castellino added. 
Students interested in the dual degree program must ap­ply to and be accepted to both the Indiana University School of Medicine and the Notre Dame Graduate School. Individual applicants are then tracked and interviewed, O'Malley said. 
Those wishing to participate must indicate their preference of the SBCME on their applica­tions, O'Malley said. The SBCME is one of eight branches of the Indiana University Medical School and covers only the first two years. It is located here on campus in the base­ment of Haggar Hall. 
The program can accept up to two students per year, he added, "but we don't have to accept any if we don't have any promising applicants." 
Once accepted into the pro­gram, graduate students are given full scholarships and liv­ing stipends, which represents the two institutions' commit­ment to support students devot­ing themselves to the long training period. 
Program participants will attend classes for their first two years at the SBCME, and an additional three years at the Notre Dame graduate school. 
"The graduate studies (of program participants) are in the area of science, provided that the University graduate studies offers the program the recipient is interested in," O'Malley added. 
After five years on the Notre Dame campus, M.D./Ph.D. pro­gram participants then go to Indiana University Medical School in Indianapolis for their last two years of medical school. A residency period, as required of all medical school graduates, will usually take anywhere from three to six additional years, O'Malley said, bringing the total years of grad­uate education to between 10 and 13 years. 
"This program requires very dedicated students," he added. 
Seven applicants are being considered for the two positions this fall, which will be the first year of the program, O'Malley said. "a couple" of which are Notre Dame students. 
"The applicants are all from in state this year." he said, a fact he contributes to lack of publicity. "This is the first year of the program, and we just received the letter finalizing it last week," he said. "We are currently putting together a brochure which will be sent to other schools, especially their pre-med departments, which should draw applicants from across the nation." 
Anyone interested in more information about the program should contact the Office of Director; South Bend Center for Medical Education; B22 Haggar Hall; telephone 631-5574. 
declined to say more, stating that contribution details were considered confidential. 
No date has been set for ei­ther ground breaking or com­pletion of the project. 

The building, which will be similar in size to the DeBartolo Building and the Business Building, would take approxi­mate three to five years to build after the financial considerations have been satis­fied, according to administra­tion officials. 
The University has desig­nated a space south of the Hes­burgh Center and the Business Building for its construction. 
4 Gxn~ToCAILTI-EllmE 

I I I I I I I I I I I I 


·-------------------------·I ·-------------------------·I 
Any Large 14 " Pizza for only $5 : Large 14" Cheese Pizza Only $4 :
1 1
The Best Pizza at The Best Price Now, That's a Deal!
1 1 1 1
Call The Huddle At 1-6902 I Call 1-6902 I
1 1 
I I I I
I COUPON EXPIRES 5/30/115 I I COUPON EXPIRES 5/30/115 I 

·-------------------------· ·-------------------------·
I 
I I I I I I I
10 DEA 

I I I I I I 
2 Large 14" Unlimited Topping Pizzas : You get 2 Large 14" 1 item :I and a 2/iter Coke Product On7y $10 I Pizzas for Only $9 
I I 1 1
Calll-6902 I Calll-6902 I
I I I I I I 
COUPON EXPIRES 5/30/115 I COUPON EXPIRES 5/30/115 I
I I 
~-------------------------· ·-------------------------· CALL THE HUDDLE AT 1-6902 
We'll meet or beat any competiors coupon or deal, just call us and ask. We Deliver 7days a week-lunch, dinner and late nile. 

nee ODlDlenceDlent: 
Sign-ups are: 
Fri 3/31 9:00 a.m. -4:00 p.m. Special Saturday 4/1 10:00 a.m. -3:30 p.m. 
*Last day to sign housing contract Monday, 4/3*
__,..._........ Catering Employment Office Basement, South Dining Hall 
631-5449/8792 

~.....
~ 
Friday, March 31, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Students to protest Teachers shine during segregation 



controversial video 
Sl"'cial to The Observer 
Notre Dame students will gather on the Fieldhouse Mall today from noon to 6 p.m. for a demonstration against the con­tinued funding of the School of the Americas; a showing of the video "School of Assassins," an Academy Award nominee in this year's best documentary category; and a concluding Mass at 5 p.m. 
According to its organizers, the event has been planned to express solidarity with human rights activists throughout the country who are working to make people aware of the Con­grssional rejection of a bill rec­ommending the repeal of funds for the School of Americas. 
Founded in 1946, the U.S. Army's School of Americas (SOA) is a training program based at Fort Benning, Ga. A Cold War institution intended to professionalize Latin American armies, SOA has not distin­guished itself as a champion of human rights. Its graduates include former Panamanian dictator Manuel Noriega; Guatemalan Col. Roberto Torri­celli, a member of the House Intelligence Committee, of be­ing on the CIA payroll and or­dering the 1990 killings of American innkeeper Michael DeVine and rebel commander Efrain Bamace Velasquez; Sal­vadoran Col. Roberto d'Aubis­son, Romero; 19 of the 27 Sal­vadoran officers accused by a 
U.N. commission of the 1989 murder of 6 Jesuit priests, their cook and her daughter; the offi­cers who ordered the murders of some 800 Salvadoran vil­lagers during the 1981 El Mo­zote massacre; and nearly 75% of the Salvadoran officers ac­cused by the U.N. of engineer­ing 6 other massacres during El Salvador's recent civil war. 
The event is sponsored by the Institute for International Peace Studies and the Notre Dame chapter of Pax Christi, the in­ternational Catholic peace or­ganization. 
Senators cold to speeding up direct student loans 
By SALLY STREFF BUZBEE gram as a success," noted Sen. Associated Press Jim Jeffords, R-Vt, who chairs the Labor and Human Re­WASHINGTON sources Committee's education 
President Clinton's proposal subcommittee. But he said he to speed implementation of a wants to know more about new direct student loan pro­long-term implications "before gram was rejected Thursday by pushing forward too fast." Hepublican and Democratic senators despite their praise of "Anybody can give money the Education Department's away," Jeffords said. "Getting administration of the program it back is just not so easy." its first year. The Education Department is 
"Many first-year partic­developing ways to track possi­ipating schools hail the pro-ble problems with direct loans. 
By SARA WOODEN News Writer 
Amidst the oppression of seg­regation in the South, teachers acted as a ray of hope for many students, said Dr. Emilie Vanessa Siddle Walker to an audience yesterday afternoon 
at  the  Center  for  Social  
Concerns.  
Walker spoke,  as part of a  

six-lecture series on "Equity and Excellence in America's Urban Schools," on "Historical Images of Teaching: Reviving the Perspective of African­American Teachers." Walker is the Assistant Professor of Education at Emory University. 
The focus of Walker's lecture was segregation and the school­ing of African-American chil­dren during the time of segre­gation in the South. 
"If I said, 'Let's talk about segregated schools in the South,' you would almost im­mediately think of poor school houses... poor school re­sources... and a school board that didn't care about the stu­dents," began Walker. "The only conclusion that you can come up with is that nothing good ever happened to an African-American child until they were rescued." 
Walker went on to add that the problem with this national memory is that it equates poor facilities and resources with poor learning. Additionally, Walker said that it contradicts the memories of the people that attendedtheschools. 
"These people don't remem­her being second rate," Walker said. "The facilities and re­sources, I would argue, are just one part." 
Walker felt that the teachers were a positive influence in the education of segregated schools. 

fi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
GET INVOLVED! 





FREfUMIIN ORIENTliTION 
NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR FRESHMAN ORIENTATION COMMISSION 
* 
Pick up applications in the Student Governn1ent Office, 2nd Floor Lafortune 

* 
Return cornpleted applications to the Student Govermnent Office by 5:00 p.n1. Monday, April 3 




The students also held teach­ers in high esteem for good rea­son. Students remember the teachers caring, according to Walker. 
The teachers had high expec­tations for students. They told them, "You don't have to just be good, you have to be better. The teachers pushed them to excel, and they believed they could excel. They pushed them to try, both inside and outside of class," said Walker. 
"There was this attitude," said Walker, "you think you can't, I think you can. Students weren't allowed not to learn." 
Walker pointed out that while necessary and important. de­segregation diminished this environment. 

~------------------------------------------------------------. 
pageS The Observer • NEWS Friday, March 31, 1995 
Thousands of Rwandan refugees flee Burundi 
ByMATIBIGG 
Associated Press 
BUJUMBURA, Burundi 

An estimated 20,000 Rwan­dan refugees, fleeing violence in Burundi, have begun a two­day trek to sanctuary in yet another country. 
The Rwandan Hutus, who fled their homeland a year ago, were on the road from central and north-central Burundi to Tanzania, spokesman Paul Stromberg of the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees said Thursday. 
They were responding to an attack by armed men on Ma­juri, one of seven refugee camps in northern Burundi, and violence in Burundi's capi­tal, Bujumbura, which has prompted an exodus to Zaire. 
Twelve Rwandan refugees were killed and 22 wounded in the attack Monday at Majuri. Officials said it was unclear who was responsible. 
. The relief agency CARE re­ported that it expected 50,000 to 100,000 Rwandan refugees to leave for Tanzania, accord­ing to a statement released by the organization's headquar­ters in Atlanta. 
"We're mobilizing, but we can only hope it won't reach the size and scale of the disas­ter in Rwanda," Susan Farnsworth, CARE's director in Tanzania, said in the state­ment. 
More than 1 million Rwan­dans fled civil war and geno­cide in that country last year. About 200,000 went to Burundi. 
Extremist Hutu militias asso­ciated with Rwanda's former Hutu-led government were blamed for most of the killings of as many as 500,000 people. The majority of the victims were Tutsis. 
Rwanda and neighboring Bu­rundi have about the same makeup in population -85 percent Hutu and 15 percent Tutsi -and Burundi, too. has suffered ethnic violence that has killed thousands. 
Because the balance of power is different in Burundi, aid workers and U.N. officials don't expect killings on a Rwandan scale. None, howev­er, rules out the possibility . 
Some Hutu refugees said they also feared attacks by Tutsi militias if violence forced aid workers to leave Burundi. 
"We are trying to assist them and underline that the aid community is staying in Bu­rundi," Stromberg said. 
By CHRISTOPHER BURNS 
Associated Press 
PARIS 
In their sharpest message to France's conservative govern­ment, transport workers crip­pled planes. trains, buses and subways with a nationwide walkout Thursday. 
Demanding higher wages, demonstrating against expected job cuts and threatening more protests, tens of thousands of employees of state-owned transport companies began the 36-hour strike first thing in the morning. 
The walkout was the largest since the conservative govern­ment of Premier Edouard Bal­ladur succeeded the Socialists in April 1993. 
Paris was choked by huge traffic jams as commuters took to their cars, bicycles or feet, or stayed home while most of the country's 38,000 transit work­ers stayed off the job. 
On the highways leading into Paris, cars were backed up nine to 13 miles during the morning rush-hour. On the beltway around Paris, traffic jams stretched 17 miles long, 
Nearly all the capital's sub­way lines were shut down while other trains and buses were running at only 30 percent on average. One out of four rail-


Turkey seeks U.S. assistance 
By ZEYNEP ALEMDAR 
Associated Press 
ANKARA. Turkey Turkey wants to keep its troops in northern Iraq under 
U.S. command as a way to con­solidate its offensive against rebels yet answer Western con­cerns over civilian casualties, an official said Thursday. 
Turkey suggested the idea in meetings this week with U.S. officials in Ankara and Wash­ington, said an official familiar with the meetings. The official asked not to be named. 
More than 35,000 troops in­vaded northern Iraq on March 20 to wipe out Kurdish rebel camps used to attack Turkey. The military says 269 rebels and 17 Turkish soldiers have died since then. 
The area is controlled by Iraqi Kurds who want indepen­dence from Saddam Hussein's government. 
Turkey has promised to leave the region after rebel bases are eliminated, but wants to ensure the guerrillas don't come back. 
The United States has been protecting Iraqi Kurds with air 



Transport strike cripples Paris 
patrols since the Persian Gulf War in what is known as Operation Provide Comfort. 
Prime Minister Tansu Ciller's chief adviser, Emre Gonensay, was quoted by the Turkish press as saying Wednesday that "the most likely option to form a security mechanism in north­ern Iraq seems to involve Pro­vide Comfort " 
"We do not want Provide Comfort to expand or interna­tionalize. But we shall see what we can do with it," said Gonen­say, who was in Washington. 
At the Pentagon, however, spokesman Kenneth Bacon de­nied that such a proposal had been made to the U.S. military. 
And in any case, the Pentagon would not be in favor of such an idea, Bacon said, noting that Turkish officials have said the incursion would not be lengthy. 
"We can't accept a perma­nent extension of this effort," he said. 
Western countries have pres­sured Turkey to withdraw be­cause of concern for the safety of civilians. Germany has im­posed an arms embargo and the United States has increased its criticism of the operation. 
Allegations the Turkish army was harrassing civilians mount­ed Thursday when about 40 Iraqi Kurds arrived at a mili­tary coordination center run by a Turkish diplomat to lodge complaints. They were told to relay them to local Iraqi Kur­dish authorities. 
Turkey denies harming civil­ians, and the government said it is taking care to protect them. 
But the international Red Cross said Thursday that Turkey was refusing it access to the combat zone. 

road lines were running, al­Strikes for pay increases have though it was business as usual also hit the state-owned through the Channel Tunnel. Renault auto firm and the pub­
At Orly airport, south of lic sector in Corsica in recent Paris, 1,000 workers at the weeks. money-losing domestic airline Union leaders at Renault Inter Air demonstrated with called for a "march on Paris" colleagues from Air France. next week. 
They briefly interrupted Other scattered strikes preparations for two Inter Air Thursday hit two Snecma air­flights by disconnecting electri­plane engine plants, a rubber cal feeds to the planes. Air boot factory, the state-owned Inter used other carriers for electrical and gas utility EDF­half of Thursday's 400 sched­GDF, and sanitation workers in uled flights. Nancy. 

TEACHING AND RESEARCH ABROAD!!! 
Announcing The Fulbright Competition for 1996-97. 
All freshmen, sophomores and especiallr ju~iors interested in Graduate Study Abroad, don t mtss the informational meeting with Professor A. James McAdams 
Monday evening, April 3, 1995 at 7:00pm in room 126 DeBartolo 
******A Great Notre Dame Tradition of Winning Fulbrights****** 
Friday, March 31, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 9 



Goldscheider: Anti-family attitude must change 
By MORGAN BRACKEN gist. N~sWriter Declining fertility rates and extended life expectancies have 
Families are good for you, resulted in three fundamental and in order to maintain these changes which include an in­"long term. sharing, committed creased potential length of rela­relationships" in the late twen­tionships, the transformation of tieth century, some role revi­those relationships, and a re­sion must take place, according duced focus on parenting roles to Frances Goldscheider author and hierarchy. According to and Brown University sociolo-Goldscheider this "requires re-
Revision of modern family roles needed 
ByMATTHFWLOUGHRAN To illustrate this point, she re­News Writer lated a story she had read of a step-father, who divorced his 
"We are too willing to con· wife, and still spent time with demn reconstituted families," his step-children. indicated Frances She has been doing a com~ Goldscheider during a forum parative analysis between·. tb,e held in the Conference Room United States and Sweden con­on the ftrst floor of Decio Hall. cerning the differing roles of The topic of the forum was, step-parents. She indicates "Can new husbands and live-in that in Sweden the state sup~ lovers serve as substitute plies everything that is ex· fathers." pected of the step-parent. 
Goldscheider spoke to a "Because of this, Swedish fam· . crowd of equal parts students ilies can be married. Qr they and faculty. She indicated that can be umarried pa;-~;qnts;+ In considering reconstituted known as informal p)lrents.'' ' families, "there is not enough she said. literature on the step-father. This is quite the opposite of Too often, society focuses on the United States system which [the biological father]." She "tends to punish {the ~ot only wishes that ~ore boyfriends] for sticking research be done on the role around." lt does this . thrC:nlgh . of the step-parents, but also reductions In AFDC l"':elfe;r~l the effect that the step-parents benefits. She feeh! that tHese · have on the children. policies should he changed to. 
"These days we are seeing encourage people to recon.. · an enormous disruption of the struct their families. family," she said. "The age of Frances Goldscheider is a the children when the step-fa­Professor of Sociology at ther enters the household does Brown University whose par· have an Impact on the extent ticular specialty is domestic . of his involvement with them." living arrangements. 
writing old scripts." The new anti-family attitude has only served to make these problems more difficult to solve. 
Goldscheider' s address, "The Construction of Women's Work and Family Lives after the De­mographic Transition," was given as the third in a four part guest lecture series entitled "Life Course Transitions: Their Changing Character and Policy Implications." 
These transitions result in changing relationships within a family. Two thirds of the years both mother and child will be alive they will both be adults. This changing situation requires increased flexibility and a reduced hierarchy. The typical parent-child relationship must be replaced with one in which the child is a near equal partner as an adult. 
Sibling relationships also re­quire changes. While a four year difference is drastic to ten and fourteen year old sisters it is inconsequential when the siblings are in their sixties. "A sixty and a sixty two year old don't talk about the older sister unless they're kidding" said Goldscheider. 
While the changes in parent and child relationships and the transformation of sibling rela­tionships can be difficult the transformation required of a husband and wife are even more significant. 
While at one time it was a news-worthy event for a couple to reach their Golden Anniversary it is becoming almost common for both part­ners to survive that long. In those years their are many transitions the marriage must go through. 

From two working people right out of college to a retired couple, major life changes dras­tically affect the marital rela­tionships. Children become the central focus for some time and change the dynamics of hus­band and wife. Suddenly the children become adults and no longer need the intensive ser­vices of their parents. 
While one transition can be destructive, the many that are often seen in marriages are very hard to deal with if the proper attitudes and steps are not taken. According to Gold­scheider, this problem is soci­ety's, not just a personal one, as it is commonly perceived. 
The lingering question ac­cording to Goldscheider is: "Will men and women respond to challenges and maintain the family so specialized institu­tions don't become the care­givers of the twenty first centu­ry?" 
Families that have shared all responsibilities and duties will be better able to deal with the transitions that will face them in the coming century. Corpo­rations that deal with both men and women form a more equal, family oriented perspective will help society in general, as well as increase there own positive images and productivity. 
Goldscheider received her graduate and undergraduate degrees from the University of Pennsylvania and has written three books on the changing roles of families in the twenti­eth century. 
She is currently a professor of Sociology at Brown University, along with being the editor of the journal, Demography. 

I've never been to a fashion model pool party. I've never been caught in an indoor snow­storm. I've never actually seen beer bottles play football. I've never had a dog popular enough to attract hundreds of cool people to my parties. Mostly, I just get drunk and fall down a lot. Ya know, the whole college drinking thing is getting really old. It used to seem like everyone did it But not anymore. Hey, it looks like it's time for a change. This year, join rea/life. -the_ f0r~-~ d. Sponsored by the Office of Alcohol & Drug Education. Portions C1994 The Wei/ness Center at UIC  



Haiti faces uncertain future 
By MICHELLE FAUL ASsociated Press 
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti 

"Operation Uphold Democra­cy" is ending in triumph for President Clinton, who arrives Friday to transfer responsibility for the U.S.-led mission to the United Nations. 
But as Haiti gears up for June elections, the smaller U.N. force will have to deal with a new kind of insecurity resulting from political killings, a fright­ening crime wave and the un­finished business of economic recovery. 
The new violence has raised doubts about whether the American intervention has pro­duced the "secure and stable environment" that U.N. resolu­tions set as a precondition for the handover to the smaller 
U.N. force. 
Politician Jean-Claude Roy, who saw his friend and fellow cimservative assassinated last week, was highly skeptical. "A stable and secure environ­ment?" he asked. "Sure, for the Americans. But not for us Haitians." 
American troops landed Sept. 19 to oversee a deal by which the military regime agreed to step down peacefully and turn over power to President Jean­Bertrand Aristide, whom they had overthrown three years earlier. 
Aristide returned Oct. 15 to begin re-establishing democ­racy, which will get a crucial test in June 4 legislative elec­tions. 
Clinton was to make an 11­hour visit to the island Friday to oversee the transfer of respon­sibility to 6,000 U.N. peace­keepers and 900 policemen. The force will still have 2,500 Americans -down from a peak of 21,000 -and will be led by U.S. Gen. Joseph Kinzer. 
U.S. officials, while acknowl­edging that Haiti remains a deeply troubled country, said that Haiti has come a long way from the period last year when Haitians were fleeing by the thousands from the brutal mili­tary regime. 
"Haiti today is a nation where people are building roads to get to market rather than boats to escape terror," said deputy na­tional security adviser Sandy Berger at a congressional hear­ing in Washington. 
But while the Haitian army killing machine, blamed for up to 4,000 deaths during its bru­tal three-year reign, has been shut down, lawlessness contin­ues. 
This month has seen a surge of armed robberies, ambushes, muggings and burglaries ­along with three political killings and one botched at­tempt. 
A pro-Aristide legislator and a driver for a grass-roots peas­ant organization that played a key role in the president's elec­tion were shot in early March. 
This week, Aristide's most scathing critic, Mireille Durocher Bertin, was gunned down just days after she an­nounced the formation of an opposition party. 
U.S. and Haitian officials ar­rested five people last week af­ter learning details of an assas­sination plot targeting several people, including Bertin, a lawyer. But on Tuesday, gun­men pumped bullets into her car as she was riding down a busy downtown street. 
The brazen assassination was an affront to U.S. efforts to downplay the magnitude of spi­raling crime, even as others, such as Bertin's friend Roy, scoff. 
"The Americans continue to say that there is security, stability," said Sarah DeCosse of Human Rights Watch-Ameri­cas. "That does not exist. Even before the assassination, it didn't exist." 
Friday, March 31, 1995 

Guatemalan activists praise inquiry on CIA influence 
By CHRISTENA COLCLOUGH Associated Press 
GUATEMALA CITY 
Four decades after the CIA overthrew Guatemala's gov­ernment, human rights advo­cates are applauding President Clinton for ordering an investi­gation into whether the agency was involved in two high-pro­me killings. 
Clinton's order was prompted by allegations by a U.S. con­gressman that a Guatemalan army officer paid by the Central Intelligence Agency ordered the killings an American and a guerrilla leader married to a Washington lawyer. 
"I think President Clinton's attitude should be an example to (Guatemalan) President Ramiro de Leon Carpio," Arnil­car Mendez of the independent group Ethnic Communities All Equal said Thursday. 
Rights advocates say de Leon Carpio -who says the officer, Col. Julio Robert Alpirez, is in­nocent -failed to take a strong position on investigating the murders. 
Rep. Robert Torricelli, D-N.J., claims Alpirez was a CIA infor­mant and ordered the murder of innkeeper Michael Devine in 1990 and the killing of guerrilla leader Efrain Bamaca two years later. Bamaca was mar­ried to American lawyer Jennifer Harbury. 
Alpirez this week denied that he was involved in the killings and that he was paid by the CIA. 
De Leon Carpio met with Alpirez on Wednesday and told reporters afterward that he had suggested suing Torricelli for defamation. 
Mendez claimed such state­ments by de Leon Carpio showed he was "tolerating the military's involvement in these murders." 
Helen Mack, whose sister, an­thropologist Myrna Mack, was slain in 1990, called for CIA in­formation on all Guatemalan military officers implicated in crimes to be declassified. 
"It is so important that the CIA declassify the information they have so that we in Guatemala can begin to purge the corrupt elements of the army involved in murders, kid­nappings," Mack said in an in­terview. 
Guatemala has been run by military or military-influenced leaders since 1954, when a CIA-engineered coup overthrew an elected government. The rebel insurgency began in 1961; since then more than 100,000 people have been killed and some 50,000 have disappeared. 


,A~ GREAT WALL 
Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant 1991, 1992, and 1993 
Szechwan•Cantonese•American Chinese Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 days Banquet rooms 
.---Sunday Buffet Brunch-Every Sunday­
available for 
$8.95 for Adults 
up to 200 

$3_95 for Children under 10 
(219) 272-7376 • 130 Dixieway S. (U.S. 31 in Roseland) at Randall's Inn South Bend, IN 

• 
·~· 
Olaughlin Auditorium 
Friday, March 31 • 8:00 P.M. 
Saturday, Aprill • 8:00 P.M. 
Sunday, April 2, • 2:30 P.M. 

Featuring choreography by Guest Artist Sue Cherry, Focuhy and Students 
Art~tic Direction by lndi Dieckgrofe • Performed by SMC Donee Workshop 
TICKffi: S6/ADUIJ5; 54/SENIOR CffiZENS &GROUPS; S3/SMC-ND COMMUNITY; SVSTUDEtm 
TICKffi ON SALE AT THE SAINT MARY'S COlLEGE BOX OFFICE, lOCATED IN O'lAUGHLIN ~-.. 
AUOOORil.N, OPEN FROM 9-5, MON. -FRI. DISCOVER, VISA, MASTERCARD ORDERS AT 219 / 284-4626 
Do you lmo(J.) (J.)hat /VfJZZ stands for?? __, {j ' 
GODSTREETWINE 
April I st 8:00pm Stepan Center 
fo see both euenfs. 
--::>."~l:r---..: 
iJJilaf a 8flRGfllf{f 
Friday, March 31, 1995 The Observer • THE PAPAL ENCYCLICAL page 11 
Pope pushes closer Encyclical condems abortion 
By DAVID BRIGGS In the encyclical, the pope
to death penalty ban Associa1ed Press declared, "We are facing an enormous and dramatic clash
By BRIAN MURPHY church," said Ratzinger. 
Pope John Paul II decried a between good and evil, death Associa1ed Press The Catechism -the master spreading "culture of death" and life, the 'culture of death'
guide of Vatican teaching­
Thursday in a new encyclical and the 'culture of life.' 
VATICAN CITY says all "bloodless means" 
that U.S. church leaders say "We find ourselves not onlyPope John Paul II harshly de­should be used to punish con­
puts the anti-abortion move­(aced with but necessarily in
nounced the death penalty in victs, and said the death penal­ment back on the moral offen­the midst of this conflict ... withhis latest encyclical, but re­ty was justified only in cases of sive. the inescapable responsibilityfrained from a blanket con­"extreme gravity." 
"It is this century's Magna to be unconditionally pro-life." 
demnation 
Carta proclaiming and defend­McBrien said the pope bor­of execu­
The new encyclical moves ing human life," said Los Ange­rowed the "culture of death"
tions. the church to the brink of 
les Cardinal Roger Mahony, metaphor from New York Car­T h e insisting that the fifth of the 10 chairman of the U.S. Bishops dinal John O'Connor, whoencyclical, Commandments -"Thou shall Committee on Pro-Life Activi­helped draft the statement. 
not kill" -be applied to penal
i s s u e d ties. At the U.S. Catholic Confer­
Thursday, codes. 
The 11th encyclical of John ence, where officials recently
said the The only legitimate use of 
Paul's 16-year papacy repre­completed building a lobbyingexecutions would be in cases
death penal-John Paul 11 4. sents the Catholic Church's network of 20,000 churches on 
ty was where an inmate poses a dan­broadest and most forceful con­abortion-related issues, the pa­morally ger to the "common good of demnation of abortion and pal encyclical was welcomed. 
wrong in all but "cases of the family or of the state," the euthanasia and hardens the "It's ..both an intellectual and absolute necessity ... when it pope wrote, noting that church's stance against capital emotional shot in the arm. Itwould not be possible other­improvements in prison securi­punishment. will pick up the spirits of thewise to defend society." ty now make it possible to com­The 189-page encyclical de­pro-life movement," said Helen"Such cases are very rare, if pletely isolate prisoners from clares that abortion and eu­Alvare, at the Office for Pro­not practically non-existent," society. 
thanasia are crimes no human Life Activities.
tho pope wrote in "Evangelium laws can legitimize, and in­John Paul urged lawmakersvitae," or "Gospel of Life," "There is a growing tenden­forms the world's 950 million to back legislation allowingwhich also outlines Vatican cy, both in the Church and in Catholics they have "a grave abortion with restrictions if the opposition to abortion and civil society, to demand that and clear duty" to oppose such alternative is letting a laweuthanasia. (the death penalty) be applied laws. stand that is even more liberal.
in a very limited way, or even Alvare said that will help theThe pontiffs stance adds to that it be abolished com­In the United States, the slay­church build support for leg­the quandary faced by Roman pletely," the pope wrote. 
ings and other violence at abor­islative proposals such as thoseCatholic lawmakers and voters The pope's position on capi­tion clinics have created a requiring parental consent forwho endorse capital pun­tal punishment is "certainly a backlash against the anti-abor­abortions.
ishment. question that Catholics in 
tion movement. And President "It will free up some pro-life
The encyclical did not America will have to grapple 
Clinton's loosening of abortion people who were worryingaddress how Catholic politi­with, especially if support for regulations and Oregon's pas­about supporting anythingcians should reconcile poten­the death penalty continues to sage of a doctor-assisted sui­short of perfect legislation," Al­tially conflicting views by the grow," said Raymond Collins, cide law have further put the vare said.
Church and their constituents. dean of the School of Religious church on the defensive. Bishop James McHugh of the The pope also did not explain Studies at the Catholic Univer­"A lot of this encyclical is di­diocese of Camden, N.J., saidunder what circumstances the sity of America in Washington. 
rected at the U.S., make no Catholic politicians who sup­death penalty might be neces­mistake about it," said the Rev. port abortion and euthanasia sary. Earlier this month, New York Richard McBrien, a theology were put on notice such dissent became the 38th state to adopt professor at Notre Dame. 
The encyclical strengthens the death penalty. and expands Vatican views Collins said he could foresee contained in a 1992 revision of a time when the Vatican would the Catechism, said Cardinal declare all executions unac­Joseph Ratzinger, the Vatican's ceptable. guardian of orthodoxy. "The Vatican could say, 'The 
"On the death penalty, the death penalty is immoral, but encyclical marks an important we can understand why it was doctrinal evolution for the done in the past,'" he said. 
E 




BUILDING PEACE 

3rd Annual Conference By Students For Students UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
SATURDAY, APRIL 1, 1995 9:00am~3:30pm Lunch Provided 
At the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies: For More Information Call 631 ~6970 is not permissible. 
"In effect, it calls upon all Catholics to adhere to the teaching and implement it in their personal actions and in their political activity," he said. 

The encyclical grew out of a request from a meeting of car­dinals in 1991 who asked the pope to help combat a culture they said was increasingly geared toward attacks on life. 
The pope praised anti-abor­tion movements that "act reso­lutely, but without resorting to violence." He did not specifi­cally address the anti-abortion activists who have killed abor­tion doctors. 
He expressed understanding for women who live through the often "painful and even shattering" procedure. But he said no reason justifies abor­tion, including a woman's "desire to protect certain im­portant values such as her own health or a decent standard of living" for the rest of her fam­ily. 
"I declare that direct abor­tion, that is, abortion willed as an end or as a means, always constitutes a grave moral dis­order since it is the deliberate killing of an innocent human being," the pope wrote. 
Patty Brous, the director of Planned Parenthood of Greater Kansas City, Mo., called the document "harsh and cruel." 
"He dehumanizes women in the name of his religion. He denies women the ability to manage their own fertility," Brous said. "It is more valuable to carry a fetus to term than protect the health of the woman." 


IEngagement Rings 
10%-15% OFF! 

Officia/Who/esa/e Pri.u.list! 
S.A. Peck & Co. 

55 E. Hiuhingron, Chicagn, /L 60601 For a Frrt J1-Par• Color Clllalor To/1-Fm (800) 911-0090 FAX (J/1) 977-0U8 /nt<rfttl C11141or IJ/ M,: 1/w•·w.tapul.comltapul 
CASTING & ANGLING 
COURSE Four Sessions Tuesday 6:00-7:30 PM Open to Students & Staff 
$8.00 Class Fee 
CLASS u f\1 tS APRIL 4 APRIL 11 APRIL 18 APRIL 25 Classes Held in the Joyce Center, Rolfs & Campus Lakes Equipment Provided but Bring Own if Possible Register in Advance at RecSports 
Opportunity to Purchase Fishing Gear at Discounted Rates 




VIEWPOINT 
page 12 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucas Managing Editor Business Manager Suzanne Fry Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager .......................Ryan Malayter Sporta Editor .......•..................... Mike Norbut Production Manager ....••.....•...... Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ..................... Krista A. Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor ...................•.............. Rob Finch Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Controller ...............................•............. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the srudents of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administta­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, leners and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor /Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General information 631-7471 Unix observerillboron.helios.nd.edu 
Friday, March 31, 1995 

• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Infallibility's implications on homosexuality 
Gays need love, respect just like everyone else 
Dear Editor: 

As a triple domer who has been at Notre Dame in various capacities as stu­dent, teacher and staff member since 1957, I can no longer remain silent in the controversy surrounding GLND/SMC. 
Professor O'Hara's expressions of solicitude for the gay and lesbian stu­dent members of the Notre Dame com­munity in the published defense of her policy regarding GLND/SMC is, unfortu­nately, reminiscent of similar expres­sions of pastoral care in past ages by ecclesiastical inquisitors as they tor­tured those they deemed "heretics" to secure recantations prior to turning them over to secular authorities for burning at the stake. Her claim of even­handed treatment in denying official recognition to GLND/SMC because it does not explicitly condemn non-marital sexual relations is belied by her failure to impose similar conditions upon other organizations where members of the opposite sexes mingle, by her failure to insist that all student organizations explicitly state their adherence to the Catholic Church's teachings, and by her failure to require all organizations rep­resenting students of different religious faiths to explicitly affirm the claim of the Catholic Church to be the only true reli­gion. Has O'Hara insisted that the vari­ous organizations which evidence a capitalist or entrepreneurial inclination explicitly affirm their adherence to Catholic principles of social justice? Would she impose upon an organization seeking to represent married students the condition that it explicitly condemn artificial methods of birth control? 
Her further attempt to justify her poli­cy on the basis of GLND/SMC's desire to encourage long-lasting, committed, monogamous relationships among those who independently choose to be sexually active is, as stated in GLND/SMC's ad responding to her defense, truly incredi­ble. It ignores similar advice given by University President Father Edward Malloy in his doctoral dissertation, and it runs counter to what one would hope for from an administration supposedly concerned for the health and welfare of its students, whether they be ho­mosexual or heterosexual. 
Although the Malloy dissertation does conclude that the "homosexual way of life" is incompatible with the "Christian way of life," that conclusion is fatally flawed. Father Malloy's portrayal of the Christian lifestyle, regrettably, is not the reality of the lives of all Christians but an ideal toward which they should aspire. Furthermore, Malloy's portrayal of that lifestyle is apparently based largely upon observations of the San Francisco gay bar scene in the pre-AIDS era which ignores the reality of the lives of many homosexuals. Would not one draw similar conclusions about the "un­Christian" lifestyle of heterosexuals if the main source of information about them was the "single bars" scene? 
At least. and to his credit, Father Malloy does acknowledge the inconclu­siveness of biblically based theological speculation about homosexuality. That is one point that Professor Charles Rice of the Law School chooses to ignore in his recent letter which purports to tell "the whole truth." Instead, Professor Rice insists that all Catholics and all Catholic institutions must accept and adhere to the characterization of homosexuality as an "objective disor­der" by what is generally known as the Ratzinger letter of 1986. The real truth is that the letter, issued by the Vatican's Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith with the approval of the Pope, is not covered by the claim of infallibility. Indeed, it was a similar Vatican Congre­gation that four centuries ago con­demned Galileo for contravening the traditional belief that the entire universe revolved around the earth. Then, as now in the debate about homosexuality, Church teaching was based upon the misinterpretation of a few biblical pas­sages and a refusal to heed current sci­entific data. Although the doctrine of infallibility has never been adequately defined, it is clear that the Ratzinger let­ter has no more of a claim to infallibility than did the earlier condemnation of the heliocentric theory propounded by Galileo. As stated in the article on "Infallibility" in the ecclesiastically approved Catholic Encyclopedia (1910 ed.): "(l]nfallibility is not attributed to every doctrinal act of the pope but only to his ex cathedra teaching" (VIII, 796). 

We should no more expect homosexu­als to accept the label "objectively disor­dered" than we would expect the Jewish people to accept the label "Christ­killers," or the mentally ill the label "demonically possessed," or the left­handed the labels "disordered" or "abnormal." For centuries labels such as these were used against these groups as pretexts for inhumane treatment. All of them, at one time or another, were affixed with claims of biblical support. 
Similarly, homosexuals have learned by bitter experience that labels such as "disordered" and "unnatural" can kill both the body and the spirit. Today, they inspire homophobic extremists to pro­claim their ignorance and inhumanity, their irrational bigotry and hatred with banners reading "Thank God for AIDS." They continue to serve as pretexts for verbal and physical abuse and they share responsibility for the alarming statistic that problems related to sexual orientation account for thirty percent of teen and young adult suicides. 
Just this past week someone very dear to me died of AIDS. Reflecting upon the trials and tribulations that this gentle and very caring young man had to endure throughout his life, I am com­pelled to conclude that there is within each and every one of us a small child who needs simply to be loved. If ev­eryone would take that lesson to heart and come to respect the right of each individual to seek love as his or her individual nature dictates, this would be a much better world. 
LAWRENCE BRADLEY J.D. '60, M.A.'62, Ph.D.'71 
• 000NESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 

---~--­
--------------~--~~--~~· ~------------------~I 

VIEWPOINT
Friday, March 31, 1995 page 13 
• SOCIETY WHIRl 
Fashion code red: The Oscars 
What is with these flared lapels? I think they look pretty dumb. As if taking their cue from Dave Letterman (whose unfunny gri­maces, clumsy one-liners, and painfully unwel­come Late Show bits pulled him into a tie with Whoopi for lamest Oscar host ever). every galoot from Schwarzenegger to Tom Hanks wore silly looking Armani tuxedos with big, foolish-looking lapels to the Oscars. Stephen Spielberg was even worse, wearing a kind of Captain Nemo suit, with enormous buttons and a fancy waistcoat, to go with his Fabio-like mane. 
You can tell who wears suits the rest of the year and who doesn't. Tom Hanks looked as uncom­fortable in his jacket as the college centers do on draft day, with their dou­ble-breasted suits and team-logo caps. But what can you expect of a man who breaks up because of the great emo­tional pressure of receiving a second consecu­
tive  Oscar  while  his  hot  wife  tearfully  
applauds?  
What a cheeseball Tom Hanks is.  Nice guy?  

Okay. Competent TV star? Sure. Best actor? Hah! He wasn't even the best actor in Bachelor Party. And the smarmy, tear-jerking, oozingly cheap vehicles he wins with! Boy, if there could be an uglier spectacle than watching Robert DeNiro and AI Pacino standing at a podium as presenters while Tom Hanks gets a second Best Actor award, I don't know what it is. It would have to involve dead bodies. 
.But I've gone off the rails. I was talking about menswear. Did you see what Tim Robbins was wearing? He looked like an Elvis impersonator in his shiny purple suit -or would have if he wasn't such a baby-faced weirdo. 
Or Keanu Reeves, with his hipster jacket and Mark Antony bangs? Denzel Washington looked the classiest, in my opinion, in his nar­row lapels and white silk necktie. Although you have to admit that Quentin looked pretty damn cool in his Reservoir Dogs suit -he even wore his Mr. Brown shades on the walkway. 
For my money, however, the best-dressed man going these days is Michael Jordan. Check him out in his press conferences. God, what a man. He wears these huge sportcoats with aggressive, sporty patterns and wide, con­structed shoulders. The other night, after scor­ing 55 points on the Knicks, he sat calmly in a blue-and-red houndstooth jacket, white shirt, 
Josh Ozersky 
and a dark blue silk tie. With his handsome bald brown head protruding above and his huge hands gesturing expressively, you could see why he is the most admired man in America. 
I think it was Connie Mack who once said of Joe DiMaggio, "he makes the rest of them look like plumbers." This is even more true of Michael, who on the court and off makes the rest of the league look like, for want of a better 

word, losers. 
My own taste in basket­ball players are the old pros, the Charles Barkleys and Derek Harpers, guys whose games are refined to the point of automatism; whose every move is an expression of accumulated experience. But you don't get the athletic, sinuous grace with those players 

-as much as I love watching them juking and faking and getting fouled, it isn't the same experience as watching Latrell Sprewell. 
The only problem is that Latrell Sprewell is the biggest jerk in the league. So is J .R. Rider, Reggie "The Geek" Miller, and Chris "I don't need a game, I'm Chris Webber" Webber. Shaquille O'Neal, while no more egotistical than most, is a vulgar boor who sings about his family resentments in rap songs. Really, could anyone imagine Michael doing such a thing? Or for that matter, shooting those clumsy jump hooks? 
Michael is so...so...urbane. That's what really sets him apart. Most professional ath­letes aren't snakeheaded creeps like Latrell Sprewell; on the contrary, they are just boring guys who you would never talk to if they weren't geniuses on the playing field. 
Patrick Ewing, Karl Malone, John Stockton, Hakeem Olajuwon, David Robinson -you can barely tell them apart without looking, so little do they have in the way of personality. Whereas of course Michael was charismatic even when retired. 
He is a more beautiful player than Latrell Sprewell, a more dominant player than Shaquille, as smart as Charles Barkley, and one of the snappiest dressers in America. It's hard to believe that he exists in a world where Tom Hanks can get two Best Actor awards. 
Josh Ozersky is a graduate student in histo­ry. He can be reached over e-mail at the fol­lowing address: joshua.a.ozersky.l@nd.edu 
• LIFE AFTER fiNALS 

Stone Temple Pilots not religion ofGeneration X 
I don't know about you, but I would like to get my Lenten hands on the thirtysomething idiot who came up with the brilliant idea of calling me and my fellow twentysomethings "Generation X." 
That catchy phrase, along with a few insipid movies such as "Slacker" and "Reality Bites," has managed to get me labeled as a jaded and cynical young man who wears a goatee and flannels and who does nothing but complain, drink coffee with fancy names and listen to Stone Temple Pilots. 
Oh, almost forgot. I'm also supposed to have lost my religion by now. That's one of the many stereotypes of my generation. Less than two years ago, The Atlantic ran a long feature article on what was in store for the "baby boomers" in the future. It said 
that the forty and~~~~~~~~~~====~===

fiftysomethings of-America were destined to wage generational pauI 
warfare with a "carni­val culture" obsessed 

with "physical frenzy Pearson
and spiritual numb­ness." Most priests will tell 



you that a person's ________:========------­
interest in religion dips in adolescence and rises again in his or her late twenties, but that has always been true. It's a part of growing up, and it's not unique to this current generation. My father tells me that he found it harder and harder to pay attention to Mass as a teenager. He got over it in time to present three children for baptism. As for me, some of my favorite Masses are still the ones that took place in the lobby of Flanner Hall on Monday nights. I felt a closeness to something very real while I sat on the floor and lis­tened to Father Oliver Williams and Father Bill Seetch explain to us how a Middle East teacher 2,000 years ago can speak to twentysomethings in South Bend today. Many of the students that I talked to felt the same thing. 
And while I still raise questions about some of the statements and actions of God's representatives on Earth, my faith in the Father, Son and Holy Spirit is as strong today as it ever was. 
Yes, I know that Notre Dame is not the typical college atmo­sphere when it comes to matters of faith. Most students attend services regularly and maintain a firm belief in God. 
Still, amongst my non-Domer friends, I find that many are still involved in church activities. Some call themselves "non-practic­ing," but most express a firm belief in God, the dignity of human beings and a life after death. Even if they are not quite sure who or what God is, they are convinced that there's something out there pulling the strings. 
I suspect that, if you poll the forty and fiftysomethings of America who don't have children, you'll get the same sort of answers. 
Generation X is not full of atheists. 
We're not all Stone Temple Pilots fans, either. 
Paul Pearson '93 is a former Observer news writer who cur­rently works for a trilingual newspaper in Tampa. Florida. He can be reached through e-mail at"paulp74115@aol.com. • 
• BEYOND fREEDOM ROCK 

The political machine of Student Body Elections 
When the wrong people control the right man 
A quarter century ago, I became a footnote in campus history: I was one of the guys who ran against Dave Krashna, Notre Dame's first African-American Student Body President. 
Actually. I didn't really run against Dave. I wasn't running, and I wasn't against Dave. But when the liberal machine announced that they were run­ning Dave for SBP, there was a quiet groan from some of the old-line radicals. Dave hadn't positioned himself for the presidency, and he wouldn't have been a logical choice. except for the First Black Guy factor. It had come to that, and people who expected more from the machine were disappointed. 
·I got a call one night from a returned Vietnam vet named Chuck Ryan, origi­nally three years ahead of me, now a classmate. "Pete, I'm running for Student Body President. I need you to be VP on the ticket." 
It was a ridiculous proposition. I was a freak. not a politico. My job was to write silly columns for the Observer, play gui­tar at the Coffeehouse, dig the colors and sit around thinking great thoughts, not to decide the budget for the Student Union Academic Commission. 
But Chuck explained -he promised­there was no way we were going to get elected. 
One of his old classmates, a former SBP candidate himself and one of the original architects of the liberal machine, had heard about the situation and called Chuck from Michigan Law School. Dennis O'Dea unfolded a plat­form that was brilliant, including a co­op bookstore, a legal aid society, drug 

Pete Peterson 


counseling, improved food service and a new system based on autonomous halls setting their own parietal hours and other rules. 
I agreed to run with Chuck, to get that great platform out before the students so that it could infuse the liberals with direction. Unfortunately, it was such a great platform that Chuck got scared that we might win and dropped off the ticket. So I took over his slot and found a sophomore, Rory Baruth, to act as my running mate, and, as a bonus. his room in Morrissey became campaign headquarters, his roommate became campaign manager, and his buddies next door became our runners. 
The only problem that remained was that, while Dave was a nice guy, almost nobody else associated with his cam­paign was. Nobody was actually cheat­ing, but they were playing some low games. The proudest moment of our campaign came when some jerk, going door to door in Dillon telling people that the conservative candidate, Tom Thrasher, was a racist for running against Dave, got to my hall captain's door and was told to leave before he got his legs broken. We knew where we stood. 
We weren't racist, and, in fact, we thought the idea of breaking the color barrier was good. But the liberals want­ed it both ways. According to them. race was not part of the campaign: Dave was not running as a black candidate, he was running as a Notre Dame student. However, when the question of a debate arose, the only venue they would accept was Alumni Hall, where the African­American students had established a housing concentration. It wasn't a neu­tral site. The debate never happened. 
By the home stretch of this two-week campaign, we had to keep reminding ourselves that we didn't want to win, and that we wanted Dave to win, despite the people running his campaign. 
The night of the election, we got a case or two of Ripple and celebrated our stunning defeat. Dave had won with the largest majority in ND history, nearly 64 percent of the vote. We ended up with 
3.7 percent of the vote, but it could have been worse: We could have won. 
I dropped out of school the next fall, but what I saw of Dave Krashna as SBP 
'Jt was a ridiculous proposi­
tion. I was a freak, not a politico. My job was to write silly column for the Observer, play guitar at the Coffeehouse, dig the colors and sit around thinking great thoughts, not to decide the budget for the Student Academic Commission.' 
up to then was more than just okay. lie was decisive and intelligent, and he did far more than just keep the seat warm for the next guy. I still think he was the wrong candidate, run by the wrong peo­ple and elected for the wrong reason. But he turned out to be the right man. 
Pete Peterson. Notre Dame '71. is Readership Services Manager at the Press-Republican in Plattsburgh. N.Y. 
------~~--,..,.~--~--------­
page 14 The Observer• WEEKEND Friday, March 31, 1995 
And you thought there was nothing f 
This Weekend 
A Midsummer Night's Dream for a modern day audience 
By KRISTA NANNERY Accent Editor 
N 
out five years ago, Professor aul Rathburn had an epiphany. t the time, he was teaching Shakespeare for the Notre Dame London Program. Part of his regular curriculum included trips to area the­aters as well as classroom visits by well known Shakespearean actors. Actors, obviously, bring a play to life. It was this aspect that brought Rathburn to the realization that such works were not written strictly to be read in the classroom. What better way then to get the students to 
J.C.: The Second Coming, listens to on;;air respond to Shakespeare's plays than 
confessions of musical sins. Tune in to hear 
to have them act them out them­
J.c. give repentance to tt:ouble4 squls 
selves? ting ·their former fondness for New on .. Enter a Lilly Grant and you have the Block, owning a Paula Abdul album, or "Shakespeare in Performance," a that secret crush on the artist formerly course that Rathburn started from known as Prince. ''Old~tim(!" fl}.vorites and scratch and has been teaching at good··Notre Dame sounds oftoday.• ft•om Notre Dame ever since. Students in Heavenly to John Spencer's Blue Explosion the course come from both the English erase the memories of childhood mistakes. 
and Communication and Theatre Departments. Rathburn likes this; this Midsummer Night's Dream' is like The majority of the participants in 

mix of experience and non-experience nothing I've ever done before. It's this production of "A MidsummerSaturday that produces pretty exciting results. awesome, an adrenaline rush with Night's Dream" are English majors, "They've got talent, liveliness, enthusi­such a sense of energy. Professor not Communication and Theatre as 5:30-7:30 p.m. asm, they're addicted to it. Kids that Rathburn has left a lot of the action up one might think. The last time have never acted before are now dying to us. We're all having a lot of fun Michael Angaiak acted, he was in ele­doing this." mentary school. But he took
Join Jeremy Burk. Ed Casper and Chris to be in the productions," Rathburn 
"A Midsummer Night's Dream" is a "Shakespeare in Performance" last
Kramer for dinner time as they showcase a notes. Katheryn O'Donnell, starring 
delightful comedy, forever entertain­semester and has the role of Peter
va:dety of bands and artists «fescribed as as Titania in the upcoming production 
ing and romantic. Multiple plots trace Quince in the production. "I haven't
"about to break the mainstream." The trio of "A Midsummer Night's Dream," 
the capriciousness and changibility of done a whole lot of acting myself, but
"~'""'"~.~u..,, in the reggae sound of Ska while agrees and notes that Professor 
love as young couples fall into and out being with all these guys, well, all in
including tunes from Phish, the Mighty, Rathburn's class has really sparked 
of love and misadventure. Puck, the all, it's a pretty talented group." He
Mighty Bosstones, and•Smashing Punipldns· her interest in Shakespeare. ''I've 
play's mischievious spirit, confuses adds that getting over his stage fright 
in their evening repetoire. ·Their two~hour always been a bit intimidated by 
one Anthenian for another and mis­was at first tough, but the more he
show boasts of unique contests such as "If Shakespeare, but performing really 
takenly pours a love potion in the acts, the easier it gets. 
you could sleep with any cartoon character, makes it tangible. I've learned more 
wrong character's eyes. But happily, Under Paul Rathburn's direction, the 
who would it be and why?'' and Monty just being in the plays." 
Python sketches. Although "Shakespeare in by the end of the play, each lover has students have condensed what would Performance" was a Fall semester found his or her correct match. In the normally be a three hour play into 
7:30 -9:30 p.m. offering, the majority of the students meantime, Shakespeare brings a play­about eighty minutes, taking the fun­involved in the class came together within-a-play into the action, using niest parts of six scenes and concen­this semester to produce "A characters known as the Rude trating on the entertainment factor.
Saturday evenings Jack Rusin a and Joe 
Midsummer Night's Dream" in con­Mechanicals to show the absurdity of The Athenian Lovers and The Rude
Cruz expose WVFI listeners to the alterna­
junction with The Sorin Society visita­lovers' vows as well as comment on Mechanicals retain their importance
tive college music of today that they enjoy. 
tion this weekend. They wanted to do the acting industry. Amanda Rafuse, and the basic story line is followed,
Looking to enlighten others to the. sound$ of 
a light comedy. Rathburn explains, who plays Moth and is a serious but Oberon and Titania's roles are de­
Helmet, Primus, Fugazi, Judy Bats. and Too 
"It's highly experimental, non-rever­Shakespearian actor herself notes, emphasized.
Much Joy, Jack and Joe search for the 
ential, and having fun. But it's "It's all kids and it's all kind of goofy. Puck makes most of the transitions
tracks that you migbt not have heard yet, 
but should soon. , Shakespeare, it's great." Ask any of 'A Midsummer Night's Dream' comes to remind the audience that this mod­the play's participants and you hear down to being able to recognize the ern interpretation of "A MidsummerSunday the same thing, again and again. Joe beauty of language and themes and Night's Dream" is a playful, shortened Monahan who stars as Starveling, make them applicable to modern day version, quirky in its originality and 8:30-10:30 a.m. says. "This production of 'A life." certainly not meant to be read quietly. 


Wake up with Scott Baier's "Boner in 
NAZZ

Morning" and start your Sunday with 
notes, music, and talk. Catch the latest Line Up of Bands . sports scores, listen to commentary on local issues, and get yourself updated with the Vic Kevlar 
world. outside of the ND coromunlty. ',I'he ..Signs of the Apocalypse" segment tou<;hes. Q.E.D . on a current event that showsthis world has just gone too far. {Take. for example, Leonard Jones Potential ..Entertainment Tonight's" 900 number • 
Tweak

viewers to call in and vote on whether or not they like "Kato" Kaelen. Campus bands are 
True North

showcased and played on the Campus Band Showcase while upcoming sho .. . 
Spoon fed 

announced and past perform tiqued. And join Scott as he opens 
Krautmeiser

classic rock vault to pull out the.. old tunes by the Beatles and Jethro Tull. 
The Road Apples 8:30-9:30 p.m. Decaf 
Relax .and mellow out on ~\lnday . .. Sabor Latino with Ira Wade's "Love Zone;" .Callers·· welcome to discuss their love lives and Sweep the Leg Johnnyreceive advice. Listeners are also welcome to make their. own on-air requests and dedi• George and The F reeks cations, buflra will do it if:you like. The soft R & B and jazz sounds of Boyz II Men, The Big Earl Band Brian McKnight, and Luther Vandross cll.P 
Sunshine Wine

· · rough week and prepare you to qiye Photo courtesy of Geffen Records into another. · · · · . ·MW• .·· 
God Street Wine is appearing Saturrlay night at Stepan Center with the winner 
Glamoras Glues 
from NAZZ. 

Friday,March 31, 1995 The Observer•WEEKEND page 15 
do here on weekends ... 




HA tickles the funny bone 
ByLARRYWARD Producing a total of four shows each semester. the Accem Writer troupe employs some improvisation while relying heavi­ly upon original comedic sketches inspired and created 
D
o you remember a couple of by members of the group. Everyone collaborates and years ago when Saturday Night works together, similar to a fiction writing workshop. Live was the most hilarious ~---..... The result is hands-on sketch comedy at its finest. !>ilow on television? Did you ever Their third production this semester, HA's "The wish you could meet the people Sound of Music Show" on Saturday night will include who envisioned all of those various sketches, musical numbers, and a parody of "Wayne's World" and "Hans and the immortal Julie Andrew's musical. In that Frans" skits? Well. if you have particular sketch, a group of very bad bur­always wanted to see the writers glars break into song-from "The perform their own jokes. now is Sound of Music." your chance. On April 1, they will Mark Marino promises that "The be at Saint Mary's College in Haggar skit entitled, 'Bob Has a Parlor. Tapeworm,' relating the story of 
Does this all sound just too good to be a man's intense relationship with ....Well it is! April Fools! However, one can still his parasite, is sure to be a enjoy the same type of sketch comedy made sketch the audience will love." famous by the likes of Saturday Night Live by "Bob has a Tapeworm" is seeing HA. the campus Humor Artists, as they per­their signature work; they've form their original skits on Saturday night. brought it back in one form or 
Formed just this year, the group claims over fifteen another each time they have undergraduate members with more aspiring comedians performed. This is one of what joining everyday. HA is the brainchild of Mark Marino, should be about thirteen sketch­a graduate student in creative writing. He's assisted by including two comedic songs. co-director Alan Laser. Earlier this year. Marino set up Brian Uetz performs one musical piece, a general call for Notre Dame/ Saint Mary's students of which Marino says, "If Led Zepplin had a collegiate specifically interested in comedy sketch writing. dining hall experience, they would have written this 
I lA provides its members with an opportunity to per­song." form and perfect their original and improvisational The group draws from both Notre Dame and Saint comedy sketches, both on and off stage. Similar to a Mary's campuses, but you won't find a lot of ND in­c_omedy writing workshop, the group provides a unique jokes. They do have one sketch though where the outlet for experimentation and experience. This work­Three Wisemen have found out where the Messiah is, shop is quite unique to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's as and Lou Holtz is the only other person who knows." the university does not offer a course specializing in Humor Artists may not be the next "Kids in The Hall," comedy sketch writing or play writing. This was one of but they are definitely filling a void on the campuses of the reasons Marino formed the troupe. "Previously, this Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. kind of opportunity didn't exist here. There were a lot A void that, Mark Marino says. is the result of "Too of people doing this type of work, but in different much information, too much stress, and too short of an venues. IIA brings them all together." He notes that attention span." It's the result of the universal college the group attracts members from all schools and experience, something we all, of course, are familiar majors. All that's required is a penchant for comedy. with. 
Artmoves chases away the blues 
By CHRISTINA TECSON Accem Writer 
M
id-semester doldrums have appeared in full force. You're tired of the same old thing and on the prowl for new, exeiting entertainment to take your mind ofT the eight papers you have to write by Monday. You have the urge to see a variety of different dance styles performed to a pot­pourri of musical selections, ranging from Tchaikovsky to Glen Miller to James Taylor. Look no further. 
Saint Mary's College Hepertory/Dance Workshop will be performing "Artmoves," a concert featuring tap, ballet. and modern dance.The concert offers an array of dances. choreographed and per­formed by students, faculty and they really bonded," Dieckgrafe stat­will perform in "Amazing Grace,"guest artists. As mentioned before. 
ed. while adjunct faculty member Jillthese dances are set to a wide range Dieckgrafe will be premiering two Tulchinsky stages the historical clas­of musical selections. guaranteed to choreographic works, "Lilnger" and sical ballet piece, "Pas de Quatre."
provide something for everyone. ..
"Aswego,"as will several faculty and "There's little expression of thePreparations for the concert began student choreographers. arts at Notre Dame and Saint
last September as director lndi 
The student choreographers Mary's. This isn't a typical dance
Dieckgrafe began pulling her 
include Saint Mary's junior Molly recital. It's more modern and differ­resources together by planning the Lajoie who sets her work to the text ent which makes it interesting." saidpieces and assembling choreogra­of Martin Luther King, Jr.'s "I Have freshman Christina Ray.
phers. This past week was "tech 
a Dream" speech. senior Elaine Dieckgrafe believes that there is aweek" for the Dance Workshop, a Savino's light and energetic tap lack of exposure to the performingterm which seems to denote many dance, and "Bad Day," a playful arts. One of the reasons Dancetalented dancers working long, hec­· piece based on the children's book Workshop is performing "Artmoves"tic practices. 
"Alexander and the Terrible, is to develop a "really fine dance au­Dieckgrafe attributes the success Horrible. No Good, Very Bad Day." dience," according to Dieckgrafe.
of the program to the hard work of Dieckgrafe notes that, "'I have a "I just think that there is a kind ofall those involved in the collabora­
Dream' makes a socio-political an uneducated dance audience out
tive process, including lighting, set, statement. They're trying to say there and we're trying to build that.
and costume designers. but especial­something about what they care The people that experience it andly, the cooperation and talent of the about." realize that they can communicatedancers. Since the group functions 
Sue Cherry. who worked with the with it. I think, will enjoy it. The 7·:45,. 10:: '' ..·..' 
as a company, students in the Dance 
Saint Mary's Dance Workshop as students really need to get out there ;:' doL.oAJt$.· ..
Workshop are accepted by audition 
artist-in-residence last semester will and see it. It's a bargain." ···7:15,.10:05 · ,.
..

only. 
be the guest artist. Cherry chore­Dieckgrafe stated.
"These are definitely the most ''IMMORTAL SEt.OVJiP': 1,zj'.J!Ji.;~'Af:l.=
ographed the dances "Assistance" No doubt about it, Artmoves is
technical dancers I've had since I've 9:35 . .. ,·.
and "Dancecapella." guaranteed to be the only place this
been here. I knew when they walked ExOTICA: 12: 1!5, 2:30, 41.!50;·
A colorful display of ethnic styles weekend where you can hear
in the door as freshmen that they BULLETS OVER:SROAOWA¥: 12
is offered with five character dances Tchaikovsky, Glen Miller and James 
were really good. They liked each 2:50, 5:05, 7:30, 9:50
from "Swan Lake.'' Adjunct faculty Taylor in the course of two hours.
other. they worked together and 
Don Stikeleather choreographed and 

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, March 31, 1995 



Kukoc's triple-double leads Bulls rout 
Associated Press Conference playoff seed. The Celtics also missed 14 of points in the fourth quarter. consecutive points to put the Jordan scored 8 points during their 37 free throws; rookie The Mavericks have won nine Mavericks up 101-90 with 6:57 
Michael Jordan followed his the run, including a soaring center Eric Montross went 0-of their last 10 games and are to play. Dallas continued to roll 
55-point masterpiece with a 
slam after Scottie Pippen's nice for-8. within 2 1/2 games of as Tarpley hit a long jumperlow-key 23-point performance feed. Pippen added 17 points. When Jordan left the game for Sacramento for the final and added two free throws to 
Thursday night, adding 11 
Toni Kukoc, who had been good with 3:11 to play, about Western Conference playoff increase the lead to 107-92 r1lbounds and six assists in struggling since Jordan came half the crowd began filing out. spot. The last time Dallas with 5:29 to go. The Hornets leading the Chicago Bulls to a out of retirement six games The only thing left to cheer was reeled off six consecutive victo­never got closer than 13 points100-82 victory over the Boston ago, had a triple-double with Kukoc's 10th rebound, which ries was in 1990. the rest of the way. 
Celtics. 

14 points, a career-high 11 came right at the final buzzer. The loss dampens the Popeye Jones had 22 pointsUnlike Tuesday at New York, assists and 10 rebounds. Hornets' hopes of their first and 11 rebounds for the when the Bulls needed Jordan's Derek Strong scored 17 points Mavericks 125, Hornets 107 Central Division championship. Mavericks and Jamal outburst to defeat the Knicks for Boston, which fell a half­Charlotte has lost three of its Mashburn added 16 points.
113-111, Chicago was in con­game behind Miami in the race The Dallas Mavericks won last four games and fell three Hersey Hawkins led the trol throughout against Boston. 
for the final playoff spot in the their sixth straight game games behind Central Divsion­Hornets with a season-high 31 After the Celtics pulled to 69­East. Dee Brown, coming off a Thursday night to match their leading Indiana. points.
63 late in the third quarter. the 41-point effort, scored only 9 longest winning streak in five Dallas, a 44 percent shooting Every Dallas starter scored as Bulls used a 15-2 run to sew up on 2-of-10 shooting. years, beating the Charlotte team, hit for 58 percent from the Mavericks jumped out to a their 12th win in 16 games and Boston's 34 percent shooting Hornets 125-107, with Roy the field against Charlotte. 20-10 lead. Jones led the bal­
pull within one game of 
contributed to the mediocrity. Tarpley scoring 10 of his 22 George McCloud reeled off six anced start with six points.
Cleveland for the fifth Eastern 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
...FOUND...  AA CRUISE SHIPS HIRING! EARN  NEAR CAMPUS 2 BDRM  If you watch Days of Our Lives  JUNIORS:  
NOTICES  Car key and attachment. Sat. night between Zahm  BIG$$$+ FREE WORLD TRAVEL (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE. HAWAII,  HOME. 2 LOTS. BASEMENT. GARAGE. $29,900. GILLIS REAL­ everyday without fail, or know someone who does, please call  BUS SCHEDULE FOR THE CLASS BASH @UNION STATION  
and Keenan. Call x4622.  ETC.) SUMMER/PERMANENT, NO  TY 272-6306  631-4540 NOW!!  PARTY LASTS FROM 9PM -lAM  
ATIENTION SOPHOMORES:  EXPER. NEC. GUIDE. (919)929­ 
Are you looking for that service pro­ject that really makes a difference,  WANTED  4398 ext. C1082.  For Sale -Duplexes 1 0 min. from Notre Dame. 2 bedroom & 3 avail­ Looking for undergraduate with solid medical background to write  LEAVES LIBRARY CIRCLE-­ 
afld is a lot of fun? Look no fur­ WANT '66-'68 2-DR. BLAZER,  able. Priced to sell.  bi-weekly column for Accent.  8:30; 9:30; 1 0:30  
ther...  ENVIRONMENTAL JOBS FOR  JIMMY, OR CHEROKEE.  272-8555 am 272-9716 pm  Please call631-4540  LEAVES MAIN CIRCLE--­ 
THE SOPHOMORE CLASS  THE SUMMER. Earn $2500-$3500  CALL ED@  9:00; 1 0:00: 11 :00  
SERVICE PROJECT  & Free the Planet Campaign to  291-1011 OR 287-0616  
Youth Mentoring at the NE  save endangered species, promote  OFF CAMPUS NXT. YR?  Listen to Michelle and Krista  BUSES RETURN FROM PARTY  
Neighborhood WEDNESDAYS  recycling and stop polluters. Work  Summer Camp Staff: Camp  FOR SALE-ON. SIZE SET  onWVFI  THROUGHOUT THE NIGHT.  
AND FRIDAYS 2:30-3:30-4:30  with major environmental gruops  Chateaugay in the beautiful  W/FRAME, 3 DRESSERS, SOFA,  TODAY!II  BUS SERVICE IS FREE.  
meet at room 161 or Main Circle  like the PlRGS, Sierra club & Green  Adirondacks is looking for coun­ COMP. DESK, DORM FRIDGE,  11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m.  
Questions?-Brian Tierney x1058  Corps. Positions in 33 states & D.C.  selors that can instruct in the follow­ COFFEE/END TABLES, GAS  You know you want to.  
Campus Interviews: March 30 & 31  ing activities: Tennis, Basketball,  GRILL, MORE CALL CHRIS @  SOPHOMORES...  
DO EUROPE  Call Jamie: 1-800-75-EARTH  Sailing, Windsurfing, Gymnastics,  273-2070  LOSE WEIGHT FOR SUMMER!  
$229 anytime!  Woodworking, Canoeing. Please  After 3 kids. I lost 231bs., went from  Come celebrate SPRING and deco­ 
•• FREE Brochure ..  call Laurie at 1-800-487-3866  '90 red ford escort, new  size 9 to a 3 in 8 weeks, w/o  rate EASTER EGGS with kids from  
Also cheap fares worldwide  An Tosta11995 needs artists again.  tires, good condition,  diets/drugs/exercise. All-natural  St. Margaret's. WEDNESDAY.  
AIRHITCH 1-800-326-2009  Looking for Logo for "Quest for the  SUMMER JOBS  $4,000 634-4098  products, easy, guaranteed! Kelly  APRIL 5, during lunch.  
Crown"  ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  1-800-209-2150  Transportation will leave at 11 :45  
I feel "le fever" comin' on  Submit something to SUB office by  PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS  and 12:45, so you can stay for an  
for Le Mans .....  Friday.  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  For Sale:  hour or two. It's a great service  
Call Tom at 1563 with questions.  NEAR LAKE PLACID  '64 red cavalier  IF YOU SMOKE CAMEL CIGA­ project and promises to be a lot of  
$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS$$  1-800-786-8373  93,000 miles  RETTES, CALL  fun. Call Brian x1058 or Sean  
Are you going to read those things  minty  2954  x4008, or just show up. Trust us ...  
again? I think not. 2323-2342  I NEED YOU I I NEED YOU!  Wanted: Looking for an easy going  call Mike 277-2631 with best offer  
Pandora's Bks ND Ave & Howard  Looking for a ride to Knoxville,  girl to be a live in nannie for six chil­ GOING TO THE BILLY JOEL  .......YOU WILL HAVE FUN ......  
ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAK­ Tennessee for Easter Break. If your going to or through, could I  dren this summer in Lake Forest, ILL. Must have good references,  TICKETS  /ELTON JOHN CONCERT IN INDY THIS FRIDAY?  
FAST. 35 MIN TO N.D. SPECIAL  ride with you? Call Larry at 634­ be responsible. love children, and  NEED A RIDE? LEAVING FRI. &  
"OBSERVER" RATE $50/$60,  3597 if you can help. Thanks.  enjoy swimming.  round-trip tix to KC over Easter 4­ RETURNING SAT. AM.  The cave is collapsing!!!!  
FULL BREAKFAST. THE HOME­ If interested please write at  sale 4-1397 ask for Scott  CALL JILL AT 4-4976.  
SPUN COUNTRY INN, NAPPA­ Wanted: Guitarist & drummer for  Dorothy Wehmer  This is no cave .....  
NEE, 219-773-2034.  previously succesful, profitable rock  454 Buena Rd.  Need grad tix. PLEASE  CAVANAUGH invites you:  
band. Must be here in summer.  Lake Forest, IL 60045  Max@ x1173  
PULP FICTION Fl=li. & SAT. 8/10:30 CUSHING AUDITORIUM  Call John at 237-9075. NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ or call (after April 3) (708-234-8125).  I PERSONAL  ...APRIL FOOL'S BASH'.. Sat April 1st 10pm  hhmm ... tannage?  
WORD PROCESSING, TAXES, GIFTS. 256-6657  Seasonal & full-time employment available at National Parks, Forests & Wildlife Preserves. Benefits &  .___F_O_R_RE__N_T___.I  ~~-~-;~~~ND CITY RETURNS!!!  Naugh basement NAZZ GSW NAZZ GSW NAZZ GS  ....BP MEAL AUCTION"••• Monday, April10@ 7pm  
bonuses! Call: 1-206-545-4804 ext.  NEED Fm to share 4bdrm home  Washington Hall  LaFortune Ballroom  
DANCE DANCE DANCE DANCE  N55842  next sc yr WALK TO CLASS 289­ Wed., April12  NAZZ  
Notre Dame and St. Mary's stu­ 9420  Tickets are $3 ... on sale now at  is this Friday, March 31st at 6PM in  Come bid for the chance to dine  
dents will be performing in  CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING - Lafortune Info Desk  Stepan Center. The event is FREE.  with:  
Artmoves ... 3/31 and 4/1 8pm  Earn up to $2,000+/month working  Female housemates needed  Get them now; it WILL SELL OUTI  Come see your favorite bands com­ 
4/2 2:30 in O'Laugh, SMC,$2  on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­ to sublet for summer mos.  pete in the event that will change  -Fr. Hesburgh  
Student choreographers premiere  panies. World travel (Hawaii,  and maybe share lease  the world!!!!  -Monk  
original works!!  Mexico, the Caribbean. etc.).  for 95-96 school year. Mostly  Appearing will be:  -Coach Dave Roberts  
CONCERT CONCERT CONCERT  Seasonal and full-time employment  funished apt. at College Park.  X-RAY ROGER JIMMY LIVE AT  -Dick Rosenthal  
available. No experience neces­ 272-1538  CORBY'S APR. 1 & CLUB 23  VIC KEVLAR  
sary. For more information cal 1­ APRIL 8. SHOW STARTS AT 10.  Q.E.D.  A benefit for the American Diabetes  
ATIENTION!!!!I  206-634-0468 ext. C55844  LEONARD JONES POTENTIAL  Association.  
ST. EDWARD'S CARNIVAL  HOMES FOR RENT  THE VIEWPOINT DEPARTMENT  TWEAK  
is APRIL 29th  Looking for part-time athletic  NEAR CAMPUS  is hiring for positions.  TRUE NORTH  Other participants include:  
If you would like to DANCE with  instructors for the National Youth  232-2595  SPOONFED  Fr. Beauchamp, Fr. Miscamble,  
WITH TROOP ND  Sports Program at Notre Dame.  Help shape editorial content and  KRAUTMEISER  Patti O'Hara, and many others.  
Start coming to classes!!!!  This program targets economically  2 BDRM AVAIL. NOW $295 MO. 3  get the opportunity to write the  THE ROAD APPLES  
Tuesdays@ 219Rock  disadvantaged 10 to 16-year-old  BDRM. NEXT FALL, NEAR CAM­ Inside Column too. Just think of it!  DECAF  
8:00-9:00 p.m.  children by providing them with  PUS.272-6306  SABOR LATINO  
?s, Call Melanie x4957  sports instruction, drug and alcohol  Call Mike at 631-4541 for info. Or  SWEEP THE LEG JOHNNY  •••••••••••HELP NEEDED..........  
ILOST & FOUND I  prevention, career information, and nutritional lunches. This is an opportunity for students who will be attending summer school to supple­ RENT FROM US for SUMMER! BIG 2br apt w/ wash/dry CLOSE to ND! call273-0182 Brenda, Sarah, Julie  see related ad in today's paper. SYNCHRONIZED SWIMMING  GEORGE AND THE FREEKS THE BIG EARL BAND SUNSHINE WINE GLAMORAS GLUES  Please help out the Northeast Neighborhood on Saturday from 9­12 in Spring Cleaning -cleaning  
ment their income while giving to  SPRING  up sites and residences in South  
If you picked up the wrong IRISH  the community. Applicants must  Professional gals at Castle Pt. need  SHOW!!  (Once again the event is free!!)  Bend and preparing for a park to be  
j<!cket at Debartolo computer lab  possess the ability to instruct one or  roomies, no undergrads. 271-0801.  built for neighborhood kids. Many  
...  Mon 3/27, I have yours, and it's  more of the following sports: tennis,  Saturday, Aprill  Also, come see the winner of NAZZ  residents will be out and we NEED  
WAY too big for me-call x2880 to  volleyball, swimmming, track, bas­ HOUSE FOR 4 STUDENTS  Rolfs Aquatic Center, 7:00 pm  open for  your help. Many more volunteers  
switch  ketball, soccer, and softball. They  (PREF. GRAD., SAME GENDER).  Free Admission  are needed ­bring some friends  
must also enjoy working with chil­ NEAR CAMPUS. SECURITY SYS­ GOD STREET WINE  too! We'll be meeting at Main  
FOUND WOMAN'S RING IN  dren and be service-oriented. The  TEM. SAFE NEIGHBORHOOD.  Thurs. April 6 is BADIN COMEDY  Circle with vans starting to leave at  
DBRT, 2nd FLOOR. CALL 2954  dates of the NYSP 1995 camp are  FREE SUMMER STORAGE.  NITE. A chance for campus come­ Saturday, April 1st at 8 PM in  9:00. PLEASE HELP!. Any ques­ 
July 3 through August 5. There is  AVAIL.  dians to strut their stuff and win  Stepan  tions-call Karen at 271-8992.  
POSTED: $ 250.00 Reward  one week of mandatory training  AUG.-MAY. CALL 233-5698 OR  CASH I If you have a friend who  Tickets are available NOW  
For the retrieval or info leading to  from June 26 through 30. The hours  233-8444.  makes you laugh or if YOU think  ($6 Students, $8 Non-Students)  ......SPRING CLEANING '95......  
the retrieval of my stolen mountain  are 1:30-4:30 p.m. Monday through  you're pretty funny, and would like  at the Lafortune Info Desk and at  
bike. Brand: Cadex Alm-1, 18", Front suspension  Friday. Please call 289-4540 or 631-6614 for an interview.  FOR SALE  to try stand-up comedy call MK @ x2735.  the door. Doors open for both events at 7pm.  Welcome to ND. Aaron.  
Color: metalic silver and wine­ 
berry red. -Do the right thing,  ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOY­ 2-0akhill Condos.  GSW NAZZ GSW NAZZ GSW NAZ  Bill,  
Please !!I No questions asked.  MENT! EARN THOUSANDS THIS  3-levels w/lower walkout. 3 BRS,  Kahren,  Will you go to the dance with me?  
Call Brian 234-4322  SUMMER IN CANNERIES.  3 Baths -$99,900  Actually, I would want one of those­ 2 gals need ride to/from Joel/John  
PROCESSORS, ETC.  2 Brs, 2 Baths, spiral staircase  but not on me, on someone else!  concert 1/31 288-9612  Hotly Potty ... may it rest in peace.  
Found over 40 ladies undergar­ MALE/FEMALE.  & garage -$78,500  And you and I, we'll always be, you  
ments in room 864 of the Cancun  ROOM/BOARD/TRAVEL OFTEN  Each unit includes: fireplace,  know, whatever!  oh my gosh. I can see past the  
Palace. To claim your undergar­ PROVIDED! GUIDE. GUARAN­ appliances, pool & clubhouse  Scott,  middle of the room ... l can move all  
ment, contact Matt or Mike at 1­ TEED SUCCESS! (919)929-4398  Coldwell Banker-277-8000  The B-woman  I hope your Theo test went well.  around now.  
407-277-2124  ext A1082  Ruth Ann Smith-288-8875  (Hey, are you excited, or what?)  Andy  

Friday, March 31, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 

Nordiques on top after defeating Rangers 
Associated Press 
Owen Nolan recorded his sixth career hat trick and Adam Deadmarsh scored goals 19 seconds apart as the league­leading Quebec Nordiques scored five second-period goals and handed the New York Rangers their seventh straight loss, 5-4. Thursday night. 
New York, which trailed 5-l, rallied for three goals and near­ly tied the game when Brian Leetch's backhander hit the post with three minutes to play in the third period. 
The victory gave the Nordiques a league-high 47 points and a three-point lead over Northeast Division rival Pittsburgh, while dropping the defending champions further fr.om the playoff picture. New York now has 29 points, only lOth-best in the Eastern Conference. 
Pat Verbeek gave the Rangers a 1-0 lead with a power-play goal at 11:17 of the first period. Verbeek jammed in Adam Graves' centering pass from behind the net to record his first point as a Ranger since New York acquired him in a trade from the Hartford Whalers on Mar. 23. 
The goal also snapped New York out of a 1-for-26 draught with the man advantage. 
But after a lazy first period in which they were outshot, 17-9. the Nordiques erupted in the second, scoring four times from close range, as much against a porous Hangers defense as their goaltender Mike Richter. 
Nolan popped in a one-bander at 2:54 and picked the top cor­ner over Richter's glove at 5:57. 
Deadrnarsh struck first at 
10:14 and then finished a two­on-one with Peter Forsberg just 19 seconds later. 
Forsberg's third assist of the period set up Nolan's third goal, a goalmouth conversion at 
13:48 that forced the Rangers to replace Richter with Glenn Healy. 
The goal marked the 200th career point for Nolan, who now has 11 goals in his last nine games. 
But New York, which had not dropped more than three straight games last season, ral­lied for three goals against Stephane Fiset, the Quebec goaltender. 
Messier gave the Rangers their second power-play goal at 
16:00 of the second period. 
In the third. Petr Nedved slid a soft shot between Fiset's pads at 2:21 and Jay Wells drove a screen shot past the goaltender at 6:50. 
The Rangers continued to apply pressure, outshooting the Nordiques, 13-2 in the third period and 40-27 for the game. 
The Rangers' failed rally dropped their home record to 6-7-3 this season compared to a league-leading 28-8-6 last sea­son. Nine of New York's 16 losses have been by one goal. 
Bruins 3, Islanders 2 

Cam Neely, Sandy Moger and Steve Leach scored power-play goals on the same penalty as the Boston Bruins extended their unbeaten streak against the New York Islanders to 11 games with a 3-2 win Thursday night. 
Blaine Lacher stopped 18 shots for his 14th victory, only allowing goals by Pierre Turgeon and Derek King. New York's last victory over the Bruins came on Nov. 4, 1991. 
Tommy Soderstrom started in goal for the Islanders, but for the third consecutive time was relieved by Jamie McLennan. Soderstrom stopped only two shots, while McLennan kept the Bruins scoreless, making 20 saves. 
Turgeon gave the Islanders a 1-0 lead at 9:40 on a backhand wraparound that deflected off the stick of Bruins right wing Glen Murray and past Lacher. Later in the period, Islanders defenseman Vladimir Malakhov was given a major penalty for high-sticking Adam Oates, and the Bruins capitalized three times for a 3-1 lead. 
Neely scored his 20th at 14:32 on a one-timer in the low slot. Twenty-eight seconds later, Moger scored his first NHL goal on a tip-in. 
Ray Bourque assisted on the goal, giving him 900 career assists. He is the seventh player in NHL history to record 900 assists, and only the second defenseman, along with Detroit's Paul Coffey. 
Steven Leach's right-side slap shot caught the far corner at 17:42, and chased Soderstrom from the net. Soderstrom has allowed 9 goals on 21 shots in his last 42:41 of playing time. 
McLennan relieved Soderstrom, and kept Boston off the board the rest of the pe­riod. 
After a scoreless second pe­riod, the Islanders capitalized on a power play for only the second time in their last 31 chances, as King flipped the rebound of a Ray Ferraro shot over a fallen Lacher at 10:11. 
Chris Marinucci, last year's Hobey Baker winner as best college hockey player, made his NHL debut for the Islanders, assisting on King's goal. 
Devils 4, Flyers 3 

Bill Guerin and Sergei Brylin each had a goal and an assist and the New Jersey Devils scored on their first three shots of the game in beating the Philadelphia Flyers 4-3 Thursday night. 
New Jersey completed a five­game road trip with a 3-1-1 record. Philadelphia's five­game home winning streak ended. The Atlantic Division­leading Flyers have just one victory in the last five games (1­3-1). 
New Jersey did not begin like a team that was playing its final contest of a long road trip, tak­ing a 3-1 advantage after one period. 
John MacLean gave New Jersey a 1-0 lead just 34 sec­onds into the game with his 12th goal of the year. Neal Broten waited patiently behind the net without pressure from the Flyers and fed MacLean, who was coming down the slot. 
Brylin boosted the advantage to 2-0 at 1:16. Brian Rolston tried a shot deep in the left faceoff circle. The puck hit the stick of Philadelphia defense­man Jason Bowen and bounced to the slot to Brylin. 
Philadelphia came back with Mikael Renberg's 17th goal at 
6:47. Renberg, in the slot, redi­rected Dimitri Yushkevich's drive from the point. 
been slowed by a groin pull, collected his team-leading 18th goal at 8:26. Richer poked the puck away from Eric Lindros at center ice, skated deep into the Flyers' zone, got by defenseman Garry Galley and beat goal­keeper Ron Hextall from a sharp angle. 
Philadelphia coach Terry Murray opted to pull Hextall after that goal, replacing him with Dominic Roussel. 
Even the Devils power play came to life. Guerin's lOth goal at 2:37 of the second period in­creased the lead to 4-1. Three Flyers were caught low in the zone and Brylin spotted Guerin alone in front. The power-play goal was just New Jersey's sec­ond in its last 22 chances. 
New Jersey's penalty-killing unit coughed up its eighth goal in the last 18 chances as the Flyers climbed to 4-2. Yushkevich's drive from the point got by Brodeur, who was screened, at 6:23 of the second. 
New Jersey is 7-0-3 when leading after two periods. Philadelphia is winless (0-9-2) when trailing after 40 minutes. 
Renberg's second goal of the game, at 1:32 of the third, nar­rowed the margin to 4-3. Lindros picked up the puck along the offensive boards and fed Renberg. Broduer stopped the first shot but Renberg picked up his own rebound. 
New Jersey was without for­ward Claude Lemiuex, who was serving the second game of a three-game suspension for sucker-punching the Islanders' Brett Lindros on Sunday. Philadelphia defenseman Eric Desjardins missed the game 

--.. 


Theatrical Performances on Gender Relations 
by the Mulberry Center Mental Health Players 
This improvisational theatre troupe will present dramatic scenes of life at Notre Dame and St. Mary's, followed ln; an interactive discussion between the audience and the cluiracters. Reception to follow each performance. 
Monday April3, 1995 / 
;':'~~!~~~~~~ffi ::
Male-Female RelaH61ls{ from Adversaries to Allies 
$Jt\l~ti()rls< gone Wtorigr
...... . . . .·.. . ... 
In the Hesburgh Center for Intemational Studies Auditorium 7:00-8:30 pm 
Free tickets available at LaFortune Box Office with student ID. Limited seating may be available at the door. 
Sponsors: 


Cslmpua AUillnce far~ Eli..U....tioft Commwni<llltioou IINI n....tr. Gnad....u Stwdenl U.UO.. 
w,.,..• ~Cer.tcr 
SMC St...U:m Gowr"""'m ND Stwdcm Gowr"""'>d 
For information call the University Counseling Center 631-7336. 

Smiling then, smiling now. 

Happy 21st, 
MJl~;nd_ 

Love-Mom, Paul, and Gram 
~JK ~ D.®JK IRTUN~ 
PLUS 
I MILE WALK SATURDAY, APRIL 1, ll:OOAM STEPAN CENTER 


T-SIIIIHS TO ALL I{EGISTI{ANTS nEGISTEn IN ADVANCE AT nECSPOI{TS $5.00 IN ADVA~CE $6.00 DA\'OF RACE STUDENT AND STAFF DIVISIONS 
ALL PROCEEDS TO BENEFIT <CIEIIRJI§'ll'MA§ liN AIPJRim., ~~ SPONSORED BY ~n..-..r.t] ~o-Md#'(-·~~ 7<k-~ 'c_s--~ 




page 18 Friday, March 31, 1995 
• WOMEN'S fiNAL fOUR

~.'f, 



Georgia program takes giant steps 
By CHUCK SCHOFFNER Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS 
It's a long way from 17-11 and no NCAA tournament berth to 28-4 and a berth in the Final Four. The Georgia women made that leap in one year. 
There are a couple of rea­sons. 
One is the aging of last year's six highly touted freshmen into more mature, confident sopho­mores. They've been around the block a time or two now. They know what to expect. 
The other factor is just as im­portant. She's Sandia Roundtree, a dynamic 5-foot-8 junior who plays with a pizzazz the Lady Bulldogs had lacked. 
Roundtree stepped onto the Georgia campus last fall after being named the national ju­nior college player of the year at Kilgore, Texas, and in one package gave the team some­one who could drive, dish, pull up for the jumper, hit the 3­pointer and play defense. 
Those skills gave her the abil­ity to lead, to make a differ­ence, though she's much too modest to give herself that much credit. 
"I knew l was joining a great bunch of players," Roundtree said. "They're young, but they're very experienced. I knew they would be ready to play with me, but I wasn't try­ing to make a difference. I was just trying to blend in." 
But there's no denying her 
contributions. Tennessee coach 
Pat Summitt, winner of 563 
games and three national 
championships, certainly has 
noticed. Tennessee will play 
Georgia in the national semifi­
nals at the Target Center on 
Saturday, to be followed by 
Connecticut against Stanford. 
The championship game is 
Sunday. 
"In Sandia Roundtree, you 
have someone who can run the 
show and really complement 
the other players," Summitt 
said. "That right there elevated 
their team tremendously when 
Roundtree stepped on the floor. 
She not only creates for herself 
but creates for her teammates. 
"That's when Georgia started 
to show their maturity and 
come into their own." 
Joining four sophomores in 
the starting lineup, Roundtree 
is Georgia's No. 3 scorer with a 
14.9 average. She leads the team in assists at 6.9 a game and even averages 4.7 re­bounds -a hefty figure for a point guard. 
Her assist-to-turnover ratio is excellent at 2-to-1 and she also averages two steals a game. 
"She's given us a dimension of quickness on the perimeter," Georgia coach Andy Landers said. "Where that's really made a difference is in our defense. With Sandia out there, our other four kids can just stay back and play good, solid defense." 

Roundtree's defensive abili­ties never were more apparent than in Georgia's 82-79 victory over top-seeded and No. 2­ranked Colorado in the Midwest Regional finals last Saturday. Basically, she took Colorado's All-American point guard, Shelley Sheetz, out of the game down the stretch. 
Sheetz didn't score in the final 17 minutes and committed five second-half turnovers. With Sheetz in check, Georgia was able to rally from a 10-point deficit in the final five minutes. 
Landers felt Roundtree fit in with the returning players the moment she arrived from Kilgore. Roundtree, though, said they needed a few prac­tices to get into synch. 
"They couldn't catch my pass­es," she said, laughing at the memory. "I was doing these behind-the-back passes I did in junior college and they weren't used to them. I had to stop doing that. They didn't know my game and I didn't know theirs. 
"But after the first two or 
three weeks, everybody blend­
ed in together. Everybody knew 
their role and that's important. 
We know we can't all be stars. 
We have to have some people 
who rebound, we have to have 
some people who score, we all 
have to play defense. We don't 
have anybody trying to play 
outside their role." 

Roundtree's engaging per­
sonality enabled her to fit in off 
the court. It's hard not to like 
someone who lists the following 
as her basketball superstition: 
"If I make too many shots dur­
ing warmups, I'm always 
scared I won't hit during tbe 
game. So I miss a few on pur­
pose." 

That humor, her ability to keep things loose, combined with her grit and determination -she worked the graveyard shift at a refrigerator plant last summer to earn her spending money -has been just what the Lady Bulldogs needed. 

Digger, keep that winning smile. 
Happy 21st Birthday, 

~~~}[j}l 
love, Mom, Dad, lisa, and Eric 

a. right to elhninate both ...........,.... ,.,..tb1Hr position$ in col" ba1rga,itiirig; .•. NLRB general counsel Fe.ins1:ein ilt.:A&I'tiM and ·issued an· unfair· go against them on March 
,u..,............. was given permission by the la.StSunday to seek the injunctiOl'J. 
·.. . ·/.:··''" .· 

executive board voted Wednesday strike ifSotomaypr issues the injunc~ ·n.."-AMs could lock players out, but it pro·lockout faction will be unable . a1' votes from.among . the 
:<:f1;:_·. '"-'UIUIJill, speaking in Tampa.. Fla .. ~1'\lltor•MO\\ wouldn't sta,rt a lockout. ·to hand down a ruling '' Clinton said. "And I 
injunction stays and the state their willingness to go I b,ope they won't be locked 
:::-::,:( 








~!!~~~!!rloX~!!!g
Co-Chairman, Atlanta Committee for the Olympic Games 



Diversity the Key 
Hom Atlanta Won the Olympics 
Thursday, April 6th, 8:00p.m. 
Stepan Center 
Admission is free. Tickets are available at the LaFortune Box Office and at the door. Sponsored by the Office ofStudent Affairs and the Office of Student Activities. 
This lecture was made possible through a grant from the Lilly Foundation. 
Friday, March 31, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
• NCAA TOURNAMENT 
Super Sophomores leaders of Tar Heels 
By TOM FOREMAN Jr. him to the next level. be as happy as we are now going back threat, King Rice directed the team at Associa1ed Press The Tar Heels arrived in Seattle home on Tuesday morning," he said. point guard, Rick Fox was the team Thursday afternoon aboard the For Pat Sullivan, it's the third trip to a leader and Pete Chilcutt worked the 
SEATTLE 
Charlotte Hornets jet, then rode a bus Final Four, including the 1991 team, inside. 
For years, North Carolina has relied on 
with the sign "WRONG BUS" on it to which touted an impressive freshman 
senior leadership for its success. In 
their hotel in suburban Bellevue, Wash. class, that lost to Kansas in the semi­At New Orleans, while those freshmen 
reaching this year's Final Four, the 
Some teams have been greeted with finals in Indianapolis. He acknowledged had grown to take on increased respon­underclassmen have taken charge. 
bands and a hotel lobby festooned in the transition in power, even if it takes sibilities as juniors, it was still a team Despite predictions that North Carolina their school's colors. North Carolina was some time to recall it all. led by senior George Lynch. When would again be an early casualty in the 
greeted with a blue banner bearing the "That's a lot of teams I've got to think Lynch left, some felt that a vital compo­NCAA tournament, the Tar Heels have word "Carolina" with a basketball goal about," Sullivan joked during an inter­nent in the previous season's title march returned to the Final Four, and will under it. There was a small group of view in Chapel Hill prior to the team's was missing. There was a sense of divi­meet defending champion Arkansas in 
autograph seekers to greet the players departure. sion between the seniors and new­the second semifinal game on Saturday 
and coaches as they filed off the bus and comers Wallace, Stackhouse and in Seattle's Kingdome. 
headed immediately to their rooms. "The difference, I guess, is the mixture Mcinnis, and the Tar Heels made an ·senior Donald Williams has assumed 
Stackhouse lingered long enough out­of the young talent that we've had," he early exit from the 1994 tournament. his role as scorer to help North Carolina side to respond to endless requests for said. "When I was a younger player, it Sullivan said the roles have changed in earn another shot at a national cham­
autographs. seemed like the older players were the that this year's leaders aren't based on 
pionship. But it's sophomore Jerry 
"The only thing we've got to do is win more talented ones and the more her­class, but on talent. That's helped coach Stackhouse who has taken the Tar Heels 
it now," Stackhouse said as he got off alded ones." Dean Smith reach his lOth Final Four, on his shoulders, taking classmates the bus. In 1991, upperclassmen ruled. Hubert two short of the record held by UCLA's Rasheed Wallace and Jeff Mcinnis with "We're really excited. Hopefully, we'll Davis was the acknowledged outside John Wooden. 
Cowboys rely on shooting of Rutherford 
By OWEN CANFIELD Cowboys' All-Big Eight guard. Good move. pointers and was named to the reer-high 45 points, including Associa1ed Press Rutherford has torched oppo­He averaged 28.5 points and Big Eight's all-defense team. 11 3-pointers. nents with his 3-point shooting 14.6 rebounds in his senior This season, Rutherford has "I don't think anybody's seen SEATTLE all season, providing the perfect year of high school, then spent improved all parts of his game. how he can really shoot the 
In order to beat UCLA on complement to Bryant Reeves' one year at a junior college be­He is scoring 19.7 points per ball," said forward Scott Pierce, Saturday, says Oklahoma State inside game. fore joining Oklahoma State game, and his 142 3-pointers remembering some remarkable coach Eddie Sutton, the Like Reeves, Rutherford is the and redshirting during the are the most in conference his­games of "horse" between Cowboys have to slow down product of small-town 1991-92 season. tory. He is averaging 6.3 re­Rutherford and former OSU 
UCLA's running game and do a 
Oklahoma. He's from Broken As a sophomore in 1992-93, bounds per game -7.3 in the guard Brooks Thompson. good job on the defensive Bow, a town of almost 4,000 in Rutherford started most of the four NCAA tournament games "He takes the shots that are boards. the far southeastern corner of year and averaged 14 points -and his 69 steals are second­open, and sometimes he just
Oh, and one other thing. the state. Football is king in while shooting a league-best most on the team. gets on rolls. He can make 'em "The biggest thing you hope is 
Broken Bow, and Rutherford 43.7 percent from 3-point "Randy has developed into a with people on him or falling tnat Handy has that great played the game early in high range. complete basketball player," out of bounds, it doesn't mat­shooting afternoon," Sutton school, but grew tired of the Last season, he continued to Sutton said. "He's always been ter." 
said. "lie can light it up." 
contact and turned to basket­progress. He averaged 13 able to score and shoot the ball One of those rolls came That's Randy Hutherford, the ball. points per game, made 78 3-well. In the last year-and-a­against Alabama in the second 
t 

FACULTY UPPER ROOM 
SERIES 

"FAITH AND PROFESSIONAL LIFE" 
An opportunity to reflect with colleagues and spouses/guests on the integration of spiritual concerns and professional challenges and demands. 

WEDNESDAY 5 APRIL 1995 
Faculty Dining Room of the South Dining Hall Dinner at 7:00p.m. -Discussion until 9:00p.m. 
Speaker Dennis Jacobs Assistant Professor of Chemistry and Biochemistry "Faith, Family & the Academic Life Style" 
Reservations: Return the form received in the mail or simply call Sharon Harwell at 1-8607 by Friday, March 31. 
A donation of$5.00 at the door or by check made out to Campus Ministry can help defray the expenses of the dinner. 

Co-Sponsored by: Campus Ministry and the Center for Social Concerns 
~­
.........
...........-. 


half. we've seen tremendous improvement in his ball-han­dling, his dribbling, his passing, but probably more than any­place else his rebounding and his defensive play." 
But there's nothing like watching Rutherford get on a roll from 3-point range. He had the game of his life against Kansas in the final game of the regular season. While Reeves was being held scoreless for the first time in his career, Rutherford was scoring a ca-round of the East Regional. Rutherford made four straight 3-pointers in the second half, helping the Cowboys pull away and win. 
He had another big day against top-seeded Wake Forest in the regional semifinals, scor­ing 23 points and grabbing 11 rebounds. In the game that got the Cowboys to the Final Four, a victory over Massachusetts, Rutherford hit a couple of daz­zling second-half 3-pointers to help seal things. 
Pnstnted by Nolrt Dame Communication &Thutrt wil.b lht ln~tult ror Scbolarsbip i1lbt Liltnl Arts 



11 UNFORGETTABLE! 
TWO VERY ENTHUSIASTIC THUMBS UP." 
-SISKEl & EBERT 

''THRILLING ... APOWERHOUSE! 
ONE OF THE BEST MOVIES OF THE YEAR!" 
-Peter Traven, ROlliNG STONE 










DREAMS 

CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
I FRI. & SAT. MAR. 31 & APR. 1 8:00 PM ONLY I 
SPECIAL APPEARANCE FRIDAY NIGHT ONLY!!! Academy Award Nominated Editor Frederick Marx and Cinematographer Peter Gilbert will discuss the film and take questions. 
r page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, March 31, 1995 
I I • COLLEGE HOCKEY 
.­
Michigan falls in triple overtime thriller 
By HOWARD ULMAN 
Associated Press 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. 
The second longest game in NCAA Division I hockey history ended with a quick give-and-go goal that sent Maine back to the championship game and Michigan back home. 
Dan Shermerhorn won a face­off and darted unguarded to the net. He took a crisp return pass from Reg Cardinal, beat goalie Marty Turco from close range and gave Maine a 4-3 win 28 seconds into triple overtime Thursday. 
Shermerhorn, who nearly won the game with a third-period goal, then skated to center ice where he was mobbed by team­mates who poured over the boards. Turco, who had stopped 52 other shots, skated slowly, head down, to his right, into the faceoff circle where the winning play began. 
Maine (31-5-6) plays the title game Saturday against the win­
--~ 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25.000 Hardback and Paperback Books in stock 

• 
Out-Of-Print Search Service 


. $1.00 
• Appraisals large and small 
Open noon to six Tuesdey thr"lugh Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) ~32-844;1 


We care. From the day you move in, our friendly, profes­sional staff will give you great service. Great location, great service, great price... Hickory Village has what you need. Come by and see for yourself! 
Efficiencies from $290 1-Bedrooms from $305 2-Bedrooms from $375 
24-hour Emergency Maintenance Service Attentive Staff • Cable TV Available Free Aerobics Classes Laundry Room in Every Building Acres of Rolling Lawns and Trees Pool, Sundeck &Clubhouse Close to Great Shopping Air Conditioning 
~CLEVELAND 

Call or stop by today and we'll show you how great living at Hickory Village can be. 
272-1880 

+llCKORlJ DlLLAC3Ef! 
Mon.-Fri. B-6, Sat. 10-4 & Sun. 12-4 

ner of Thursday night's semifi­nal between Boston University and Minnesota. 
For Michigan (29-8-1), not even 100 minutes and 28 sec­onds of determined effort could end an 18-year wait to return to the championship game. 
The longest game in NCAA Division I hockey history lasted 102 minutes, 9 seconds on Dec. 21 and 22, 1968. North Dakota won it, 5-4 over Minnesota. 
Thursday's game was the longest in NCAA tournament history, outlasting the 99­minute, 28-second marathon in which Bowling Green beat Minnesota-Duluth 5-4 for the 1984 championship. 
Maine won its only champi­onship in 1993, when it achieved a remarkable 42-1-2 record. In the semifinal that year, the Black Bears also knocked off Michigan 4-3. But that only took 1:36 of the first overtime to determine a win­ner. 
Both teams played cautiously as Thursday's endurance test wore on. And no one was more durable, or spectacular, than the goalies -Turco and Maine's Blair Allison, who stopped 4 7 shots and has played every one of Maine's games this season. 
Maine's best chance of the second overtime came when Jamie Thompson went in alone and skated left to right across the slot. But Turco went down, reached out his left arm and smothered the shot with 4:40 left. 
Thompson, in frustration, sim­ply fell flat on his stomach in the faceoff circle to Turco's left and lay there for several sec­onds. 
Maine outshot Michigan 17-8 in that overtime after being outshot 11-6 in the previous period. 
The Wolverines nearly ended the game 3:48 into that first extra session when Brendan Morrison took aim at the wide open right side of the net. But his hard shot clanged off the post and ricocheted harmlessly away. 
Michigan scored twice in the first five minutes, but Maine crept back and took the lead 3­2 on Shermerhorn's power-play goal with 5:58 left in regu­lation. He's Maine's second leading goal scorer with 25. 
Michigan, the highest scoring team in the country, ended a scoring drought lasting more than 50 minutes when Mike Knuble, the nation's leading goal scorer, tied the game with 
5:09 left in the third period. His 38th goal came 18 seconds into a Wolverine power play and his jubilant teammates swarmed around him. 
But Maine did the celebrating after Shermerhorn's goal. He won the faceoff to Turco's right and got the puck to Cardinal a few feet away. Shermerhorn, without hesitation, sped toward the net where no one picked him up. 
Cardinal poked it through and Shermerhorn found the puck at his feet and backhanded it past a stunned Turco. 
Kevin Hilton and Matt Herr had given Michigan a 2-0 lead, but Maine tied the game on goals by Jeff Tory on a power play at 18:01 of the first period and Brad Purdie at 1:06 of the second. 
Then Shermerhorn got the goals Maine needed to continue its recovery from a season of turmoil. 
It missed the NCAA tourna­ment last season, in which it lost seven players to the Olympics and 14 games by for­feit because it used two ineligi­ble players. 
But the Black Bears began this season by going 14-0-5. Just one more win and their in­creasingly amazing climb back to the top of college hockey will be complete. 


That's what we're all about. Interested? 
Multicultural Executive Council now accepting appli­cations for the 1995-96 school year. 
Applications can be picked up in the Student Activities Office. Deadline: April 4th 

Friday, March 31, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
..._
• NCAA TOURNAMENT 



Final Four full of coaching experience 

By JIM O'CONNELL 
Associate Press 
SEATTLE 

The 11th Final Four to cap a 64-team tournament has a vet­eran field of coaches with an average age of almost 57 and a combined 90 seasons of Division I head coaching expe­rienee. 
It is the fourth in 57 NCAA tournaments -all since 1991 except last year -to have four sehools advanee to the national semifinals without at least one looking for its first title. 
Saturday's rnatehups have UCLA, the champion of cham­pions with 10 national champi­onships, against Oklahoma State, the first repeat champion in 1946, and the two most re­cent winners. North Carolina, one of four sehools with at least three titles. and Arkansas, the defending champion. 
Jim Barrick of lop-ranked UCLA is the lone Final Four rookie among the eoaehes, and only once since the tournament went to 64 teams (1993) has there not been at least one first-timer among the coaehes. 
"From my standpoint, we don't change anything we do," he said. "It's one of the biggest soeial events in America, but I don't think the teams are in­volved in the social part of it." 
Oklahoma State's Eddie Sutton led Arkansas to the Final Four in 1978 and his cur­rent Cowboys come in as a No. 4 seed. Since 1985, only two teams seeded lower than third -No. 8 Villanova in 1985 and No. 6 Kansas in 1988 -have won it all. 
"When I went there in 1978, I thought it isn't that hard," Sutton said. "But it has been hard to get back to the Final Four. I'm just very thankful that I've had an opportunity to come back for a second time." 
This is Nolan Riehardson's seeond straight trip with Arkansas and third overall. The Razorbacks are looking to join Duke in 1992 as the only repeat ehampions sinee UCLA's seven­year title run ended in 1973. 
That Arkansas even got this far is impressive. Since the field expanded to 64, only the Duke repeat champions and the 1991 UNLV team, whieh lost to Duke in the semlinals. have reached the Final Four as defenders. 
"Everybody is expeeting for us to go undefeated, I suppose, and everybody is expecting for us to win by a large margin," said Richardson, the first coach to have all starters back from a national champion sinee UCLA in 1967. "That's because we have created a monster and now we have to feed that mon­ster. Sometimes you run out of food. So we've just got to try to take it one day at a time and try to enjoy this game." 
Only John Wooden, the archi­tect of UCLA's dynasty, took more teams to a Final Four than North Carolina's Dean Smith. This is Smith's 10th Final Four, two less than participants are encouraged to 
bring their own. The fee is $8 
and the class is open to all. 
Advance registration in the 
RecSports office is required. 
Partieipants are also given the 
chance to buy equipment at 
discounted prices. Also, free 
caps will be given to all partici­
pants. 
SMC 4-0N-4 VOLLEYBALL ­Play will be on Wednesdays in April. concluding with a single elimination tournament on the 26th. Each team must have six players. with no more than on 
varsity per team. Turn rosters ­
in to the front desk at ~ngela 
by March 31st. 
CHRISTMAS IN APRIL BENEFIT -A 5k or 1Ok run with a 1 k walk will be held on April 1st to benefit Christmas in April. The will be six divisions in each run and trophies to the top finishers. T -shirts will be given to all registrants. The cost is $5 in advance and $6 the day of. All participants must sign the necessary forms which can be obtained at RecSports or at the events. For more info call RecSports at 1­6100. BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL­looking for a joke team to play a group of campus celenrities in the Hall of Fame game. If you think you're crazy enough, call John at 4-4364 by Monday April 3. .. 
KAYAKING -Four pool ses­sions along with a one day excursion. Classes are to be held at Rolfs from 6-9 on April 18, 20, 25, 27. There is a $5 fee. Class size is limited, so register in advance at RecSports. 
Reglonals Semifinals 
MIDWEST 
1. Kansas 
4. 

Kansas City, Missouri March 24 & 26 
Saattle, Washington 

SOUTHEAST Aprill 
1. 


Birmingham, Alabama March 23 & 25 
6. Georgetown 2.U.N.C. 

2. North Carolina 
Wooden. A national title would make Smith the fourth coach to win at least three and the two victories would give him 10 in the Final Four, one more than Adolph Rupp of Kentucky and 11 less than Wooden. 
"I know that I feel very fortu­nate to have been there at any time," said Smith, at 64 and in 
Semifinals Regionals 


~~till'~ EAST Wlmmt&Mri~B 
4.0k. 
his 34th season at North Carolina, the dean of the cur­rent Final Four coaches. "It's not a given, even if you think you're a good team. Maybe sometimes we weren't deserv­ing. I don't know about this year." 
This is only the third Final Four sinee 1985 not to have at 
Seattle, Washington April1 
WEST 
1. UCLA 
Oakland, California March23& 25 

least two schools from the same conference. In 1986, Louisville won over a four-conference field and North Carolina did the same in 1993. 
The last three national cham­pions came into the Final Four as No. 1 seeds and UCLA is the only top seed still going this year. 
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, March 31, 1995 
_... 
-
Coach 
continued from page 28 

than winning a baseball game." With that attitude, Mainieri feels little pressure to compete with the memory of Murphy. 
"The question people ask of me most is wh~ther or not I feel pressure to match Murphy's achievements," Mainieri says. "In all honesty I haven't felt one iota of pressure. "I don't ever worry about the outside expecta­tions," Mainieri continues. "I know if I do the job I'm capable of, the university will be proud of what we as a team have accomplished." 
Mainieri has walked in the shadow of a giant before, though. 
The 37-year-old coach learned much about the game of baseball from his father, Demie, a leg­endary ~oach ~t Miami-Dade North Community College m Flonda. The elder Mainieri was the first junior college coach to win 1000 games. He won a national championship and sent 40 play­ers to the major leagues. 
"I admired my dad more than anyone in the world," Manieri says. "Without a doubt he is the most important influence in my life." 
Mainieri spent many hours in the dugout with his father, studying the game and dreaming of being a college coach. 
~From the time I was 10 or 11, I knew that bemg a coach was what I wanted to do," Mainieri said. "I saw the important influence my father had on his players' lives and thought it would be a neat thing to do." 
Mainieri received further motivation from his college coach, Ron Maestri at the University of New Orleans. 
"Coach Maestri taught me a lot about aggres­
sive play," Mainieri says. "I learned the impor­
tance of playing tough, fundamentally sound 
baseball." 

A middle infielder, Mainieri spent two seasons 
at New Orleans before he was drafted in the 26th 
r<?,und by the Chicago White Sox. 

'I was a good fielder, but I knew I couldn't 
swing for the fences," Mainieri admits. "I had to 
be a student of the game to make myself usefuL" 
This studiousness led Mainieri out of playing 
baseball and into coaching. After being released 
by the White Sox, he returned to his alma mater 
Christopher Columbus High School for Catholi~ 
Boys, and was an assistant football and baseball 
coach. 

It was here that Mainieri learned a huge lesson 
about optimism. When the head baseball coach­
ing position at Columbus opened, Mainieri was 
hopmg for the job. The school felt he was too 
young and passed him over. 

"I was only 24 and I was just devastated," 
Manieri remembers. "All I wanted to do was be 
a coach, and now I was being told I couldn't even 
coach high schooL" 

Mainieri took some of the aggressiveness he 
!earned f~om Maestri and applied it to job hunt­
mg. landmg the head coaching position at St. 
Thomas University in Florida. 

"I always use this story as an example for my 
players," Mainieri says. "It shows that when one 
door closes, another one opens up. If you're too 
focused on the closed door, you'll never see the 
one that opens." 

Wit~ his f~o~ ii? the open door of collegiate 
c?achmg, Ma1men made the most of his opportu­
mty. He led Division II St. Thomas to its first 
winning season in school history and six straight 
top ten rankings. 

He produced 15 professional baseball players, two of whom appeared on major league rosters. After three seasons, he was named athletic director at the schooL 
When the Air Force Academy decided to hire its first civilian baseball coach, they looked to the Division II coach who had beaten them 13-0. Mainieri proceeded to take over the Falcons pro­gram in 1989. 
Again, Mainieri turned a losing tradition around. In his first season, Air Force finished at the .500 mark, and by 1993 had its first winning record in over a decade. 
"We didn't get the greatest athletic talent at the Academy because the five year commitment to the service dissuaded guys with real pro potential," Mainieri said. "But what we did have were a lot of hard-working young men with a lot of pride." 
Mainieri, his wife Karen and children Nicholas, Alexandra and Samantha thrived in Colorado Springs. But when Notre Dame came calling Mainieri listened. ' 
"My wife and I talked, and decided that a chance like this may never come again " Mainieri says. ' 
But before Mainieri could interview at Notre Dame, Karen had to give birth to their fourth child. The day after Thomas was born, Mainieri was on a plane to South Bend. The next day he was named coach, and five days later, on August 30 1994, he met his team for the first time. 
"Of ~ourse t~e rushed situation wasn't easy; I was still learmng names two or three days into fall practice," Mainieri says. "I was more wor­ried about the players, especially the veterans who had to prove themselves all over again to a new coach." 
But Mainieri's persona has made the transition 
smooth. 

"He's ~ rea~ players _coach," says pitching coach Bnan 0 Connor, hired in September from Creighton. Assistant coach and former Irish letterwinner Cory Mee agrees, "He establishes an atmosphere where the players enjoy coming to the ballpark." 
"So far its been great, I've loved playing for 
him," says junior rightfielder Ryan Topham. "Its 
been a real relaxed atmosphere where we're 
able to just go out and play." 
"Coach fits in well with us," junior Rowan 
Richards concurs. "We've bonded as a team and 
come together under him." 
While Mainieri may have the respect of his 
players and staff, there's still the question of 
whether he can produce wins like Murphy. This 
year's team is struggling to stay above water at 
11-10. 

Only three everyday players returned from last 
year's team, and much of the starting line-up 
lacks experience. 
"There's no question we have a thin roster this 
year, especially with our recent injuries " 
Mainieri says. ' 
"But we're ~ot_ going to dwell on these things. 
We know realistically there are limitations, but 
as the team gains more experience, I have no 
doubt we will be competitive." 
But Mainieri isn't worried about what those 
outside of the Notre Dame community think of 
his program, or their perceptions of him. 
"I wan_t to be ~nown as a coach whose players 
truly enJoy playmg and are excited about what 
each day has to offer," Mainieri says. "I haven't 
given much thought to the mark I'll leave on 
Notre Dame. I'm content to work to the best of 
my ability and let other people determine what 
kind of mark I have made. 
''I'm j.ust. happy with my team and our coaching 
staff. I m JUSt happy to be coaching here." 
The Alumni-Senior Club is hiring 
BARTENDERS 
for the 95-96 season. 
Pick up applications at Student Activities, 315 LaFortune. Must be 21+ by September, 1995. 
DEADLINE: March 31, 1995 
• SAINT MARY'S TRACK 
Belles looking for continued success 
By CAROLINE BLUM 
Saint Mary's Sports Ediror 

Although most identify the big excitement in sports this Saturday as the Final Four, the Saint Mary's track team has other ideas. With their season of to a rocket start, the Belles will try to continue their suc­cess with victory at the Manchester Invitational this Saturday. The Invitational will be the best competition the Belles have yet to face, and therefore they are looking for­ward to the meet. 
Sophomore Paula Kivinen, the team's leading high jumper, is especially interested in the competition. Kivinen placed first in the high jump at the Wabash Invitational last Saturday, and is hoping to do so again this Saturday. And if Kivinen jumps her blockbuster 5 feet steal again, the chances of this are likely. 
Sophomore Kelly Medlin, who broke the former school record with a 33'10" rocket in the shot put last Saturday, will also have all eyes on her Saturday. Medlin has thrown well over 33'10" many times, and the excitement is gearing up for her event again this weekend. 
"Yes, I'll be happy if I keep building from last week. The Manchester Invitational is much more competitive than the Wabash, so we'll just have to see what we've got," said Medlin. 
The team has relocated their practices to outside perma­nently, in order to be prepared for the weather conditions at their meets. Last year at the invitational the team earned only 10 points, and Coach Larry Szczechowski's goal for the team Saturday is to earn at least 30 points. This score con­trasts greatly with the team's 111 points at the Wabash Invitational last Saturday. 
The field events, although packed with several stars, are not alone in their successes. The distance and sprinters are also engulfed with stars such as Joann Weed, Erin Mellifont, and last week's leading point scorer Jill Jusick. Each is ex­pected to show good things at the Invitational. 
Manchester College is only an hour and a half from campus, so the trip is convenient for those who are fed up with hearing about the Final Four. The meet begins at ten and will last throughout most of the afternoon. 

Please Recycle The Observer 
Two Convenieut Locations 
Close to Campu>! 
with 5 weeks of 
S:>ulil BeJd · Un1'1ersir1 Com11111S
I

UNLIMITED TANNING (ltiJJSS from UmverSJtf P11t lhilj
I 
Phone 272-7653

ONLY $45°0 I 
I Mls.'lawa~ · Grave and McKinley 
{/oaled IIlli Km1t1)

Bed, Booth & Sun Capsule~J 

Phone 2~u-9656 

MAJOR GENERAL MARTIN STEELE, USMC 
speaks on 

''THE CHALLENGE OF LEADERSHIP IN THE MILITARY TODAY'' 
Friday, March 31st 4:15p.m. Library Auditorium 
... 
Friday, March 31, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 23 

• BASEBALL 
No blown lead this time 
By MEGAN McGRATH Stadium. on a George Restovich sacrifice Spons Writer Just the day before they had fly. Designated hitter Christian lost to Bowling Green by the Parker reached on an error, 
Baseball great and famous same score. and scored on a Randall Brooks 
abuser of the English language Only Notre Dame head coach single. Yogi Berra once said, "Its like Paul Mainieri seemed oblivious "We had much higher inten­deja vu all over again." to the similarities. sity than yesterday," Mainieri 
Anyone watching Thursday's "Yesterday was one of those said. "Guys like Amrhein and Notre Dame baseball game days that anyone can have," Topham stepped up and got against Cincinnati who had Mainieri said. "It just proves some big hits." seen Wednesday's contest that you can't win them all. Like Wednesday, Notre Dame might have had that eerily fa­Today was a new day." received effective pitching from miliar feeling for the first six But there were some unmis­its starter. Against the innings. takable coincidences. Bearcats, Gregg Henebry 
Luckily for the Irish, the big 
Like Wednesday, Notre Dame earned his first win of the sea­seventh inning belonged to scored first. Craig DeSensi led­son by going six innings, sur­
The Observer/ Kyle Kusek 

them as they went on to beat off the contest with a double, rendering no earned runs on
Sophomore Greg Henebry allowed five hits and no earned runs as he earned his first win against Bowling Green yesterday. 
the Bearcats 5-4 at Eck and then scored on an RBI just five hits. 

• GOLF 
Links teams to begin seasons 
.By JIM BELDEN noted. "We fared well at the the advantage of playing near­
Spons Writer Embry Riddle Intercollegiate ly year-round, something 
Tournmament and it really South Bend obviously doesn't 
The arrival of spring always helped to get in as many accommodate. 
brings a renewed sense of rounds as possible for the "Traveling to face teams that 
hope and enthusiasm to most spring schedule." can play everyday puts us at a 
any endeavor. This is espe­Likewise, the women feel a disadvantage," Thomas said. 
cially true for the Notre Dame bit more confident after hav­Among the teams the men 
golf teams. ing already competed this will compete against are 
The men's squad hits the spring. schools such as Louisville, 
links this weekend in the "Katie King, who is a fresh­Kentucky, and traditional 
Johnny Ownes Invitational, to man, played well last week­powerhouse Ohio State. The 
be hosted by Kentucky, while end, so we're looking for big tourney will be composed of 
the lady linksters travel to things out of her," assistant 54 holes with the top four out 
Bloomington to compete in the coach Tom Hanlon said. "In of five scores counting toward 
Indiana Invitational. addition, Katie Shannon, our stroke play. 
Both coaches have high ex­senior co-captain, has been The women, who are 
pectations. solid for us all year." coached by Ross Smith, chal­
"I see this year's team as Even though the teams have lenge perennial Big Ten pow­
having the best balance I've had the opportunity to com­ers such as Minnesota, 
seen in my tenure here," pete a bit already this spring, Wisconsin, Indiana, and Ohio 
men's coach George Thomas 
many of their opponents have State. 
ground-out by Ryan Topham. "I was just throwing strikes 
But unlike the loss to Bowling and changing speeds," Green, the Irish kept hitting af­Henebry said. "I was able to ter the first frame. keep their guys off balance." Unfortunately, poor execution The Irish bull pen struggled a on the bases kept them from bit in relief, but managed to scoring. Irish lead-off hitters hang on for the win. Freshman reached first in three consecu­Pat Davis started the eighth tive innings only to be caught inning, and retired one batter stealing or thrown out in a dou­before allowing two singles. He ble play. got another out before giving 
"I didn't think we played a up a long-ball to left by junior very fundamentally sound ball Matt Primack. game today," Mainieri said. But the bullpen came up "We need to more aggressive solid. Junior Garrett Carlson and execute better in order to relieved Davis and struck out score runs and win." Ryan Stidham looking to end 
The Irish were finally able to the eighth. Sophomore Larry produce in the sixth. DeSensi Mohs was perfect in the ninth led off with a single, and was to earn his second save. sacrificed to second by Scott The Irish will square off Sollman. A Mike Amrhein sin­against Butler in a series of gle scored DeSensi, and double-headers at Eck Stadium Topham followed with a run­this week end. Saturday and scoring triple. Sunday's contests will be the 
But Notre Dame wasn't done team's first Midwestern scoring yet. Topham came in Collegiate Conference games. 

Arkansas Oklahoma St. 
Special Special r -------, r --,
lunch Special o';; trl"';g;-­
1 One Topping 1
I 1-10" Small I I 2Topping Pizza I I ~695 I I with 1can of Coke ~~~~---~~~ T!ft4"larue I 
One Topping I

I I $11 9~ I 
_______ ....
LAI!dibonli TOIJP/ngs 95c ...~ liiJiotlid wi/11 "''om.r coupoo. I 
N. Carolina UCLA 
Special Special r -71/tr;iii!,e"'Jiff; -, late Night Special
r --------, 
I 1-16" Extra Large I I (9:00p.m. until closing) I I Two Toppings I I 1-14" Large I 1Topping Pizza I 
I

: $95~-I ORDER APAPA JOHN'S : $59.~ : 
1 kltitionM TOtJPingt 11.25 Ut:k /iQ/ trlld With "'f other &mlfJOII. I 
~-------... 
FINAL FouR SPECIALL~=-~~~~~.J
HOURS: 

Mlnlay-Timday 11 :Ill am -1:Ill am. 
And catch all of this weekend's action! 
Frilay &Satmlay 11 :Ill am. -3:111 am. 
Slmay lbJn -1:00 am. 
CALL 271·1177 
-
-----------~~ ----~-~ -----------------~-------­
Friday, March 31, 1995 

page 24 The Observer • SPORTS 
• SOFTBAll 

Irish seeing double with doubleheaders 
Notre Dame splits two with Bowling Green 
By NEIL ZENDER Sports Writer 
Ernie Banks once said, "Let's play two." The Notre Dame softball team would probably prefer playing one. That would certainly improve their winning percentage. The Irish have a tendency of winning the first game, and then getting am­bushed in the second end of a twin bill. Last week it hap­pened against Ohio State. 
Yesterday, the opponent was 4-10 Bowling Green. No. 22 Notre Dame (16-8) bowled over the Falcons 6-1 in the first game behind junior Terri Kobata's one hitter. However, in the second contest they suf­fered a 5-4 loss, with defense being the problem. 
"We haven't been really sharp in doubleheaders," Coach Liz Miller admitted. "We've had a hard time coming back (to play) in the second game. I don't think we mentally know how to prepare." 
·It's been difficult for Irish 
pitchers to prepare for starting 
the second game of a double­
header. 
"I don't think our pitchers 
know how to prepare for a sec­
ond game. We've been giving 
up runs in the early innings. 
It's become a pattern." 
The victim this time was Joy 
Battersby (7-4). In the second 
game, Bowling Green tagged 
her for a two-run first inning. 
But Notre Dame fought back, 
scoring two runs in both the 
third and fourth innings to cap­
ture a 4-2 lead. 
The win seemed in the bag, 
until the sixth inning. The 

Falcons chased Battersby from the game by using a pair of walks, a sacrifice, and a single to score one run and position runners on second and third. 
Miller brought in relief ace Kelly Nichols from the bullpen. After a walk that loaded the bases, leadoff hitter Heather West grounded to shortstop Meghan Murray, but the throw was off, and the tying and go­ahead run came across the plate·. giving the Falcons their 5-4 victory margin. The error was surprising, considering that statistically, the Irish have the best defense in their con­ference. 
In game one, Notre Dame was in the driver's seat to begin with. Terri Kobata (8-1) fired a one-hitter, whiffing twelve Falcons. She fooled hitters so badly it looked as if they were drunk, blindfolded, and swing­ing at a pinata. 
Of course, for Bowling Green 
the 6-1 loss was a positive ex­
perience. It was the first time 
they'd gotten a hit off Kobata 
since 1993. That was the last 
time the two teams squared off 
against each other, and Kobata 
fired a perfect game. 

Notre Dame's big inning came in the fifth. They pounded out four runs on four hits, including Meghan Murray's 2 RBI triple. Elizabeth Perkins went 2-4 with two runs scored and a pair of doubles. 
However, to many softball and music lovers the highlight of the afternoon was before it started. When a tape of the Star Spangled Banner could not be found, the entire Notre Dame ball club spontaneously burst into a rousing rendition of the National Anthem, warming the hearts of fans, umpires, and ushers alike. 
If you see sports happening, call The Observer at 1-5323. 
1994·95 MAIN STAGE SEASON 
NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE PRESENTS
OUR 

COUNTRY'S 
liMBERLAKE WERTEN BAKER

GOOD BY 
DIRECTED BY REGINALD BAIN 
.. 

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 5 ...... 8 P.M. THURSDAY, APRIL 6 .. . .. . 8 P.M. FRIDAY, APRIL 7.. .. . .. .. 8 P.M. SATURDAY, APRIL 8 ....... 8 P.M. SUNDAY, APRIL 9 . 2:30P.M. 
RESERVED SEATS $7 
STUDENT AND SENIOR CmZEN DISCOUNTS ARE AVAILABLE WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY AND SUNDAY. 1iCKETS ARE AVAILABLE AT THE DOOR OR IN ADVANCE AT THE L.IFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 1iCKET OFFlCE. 
MASTERCARD AND VISA ORDERS CALL 
631-8128. 
N H A L L 

VIEWERS MAY FINO SOME OF THE LANGUAGE IN THIS PLA'f OFFENSIVE. 

Wright State, Butler await 
By NEIL ZENDER Sports Writer 
If they had a top notch agent, Notre Dame softball would be in a Doublemint Gum commer­cial. This weekend is double doubleheaders as the Irish begin their Midwestern Collegiate Conference season. On Saturday, they'll play two against Wright State at 1 p.m. On Sunday, they'll play another two against Butler at 11 a.m. 
The Irish will get a lot more 
than pure chewing satisfaction 
if they can notch four wins this 
weekend. 
The Raiders and Bulldogs are 
middle of the pack teams, and 
Coach Liz Miller is worried 
they might sneak up on the 
Irish. 
These are the type of teams 
that will sneak up on us. It's 
tough, because they have no 
pressure on them. These are 
really big games for us. We 
can't have defensive letdowns." 
Wright State ( 4-9) will give 
the Irish pitchers a good test. 
They lead the MCC in hitting 
with a .327 average. Butler, on 
the other hand, appears more 

vulnerable. They have a team 
ERA of 3.12. Notre Dame's is a 
non-existent 1.43. 

The Irish will be bolstered by 
Kara McMahon's return after 
missing nine games after suf­
fering a fractured cheek at the 
hands of a foul ball against 
Hawaii. Yesterday, McMahon 
played solid ball in her return, 
and showed no signs of being 
gun-shy. 
I 

-----------------------------~------------------------------),
Large 2-Topping Pizza l,: 
$ S 99 plustax . !i 
Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other o~er. Prices ma~ vary. Customer pays sate~ tax. Delivery areas limited to ensure sale dnving. I 
~~~~iilll_~~::_rs_ca_~:ss_U:':_~~~~-=':.~e~~=~~~r~~~~~=·~~95-S:~~~~Z::O~:':~--------------J 
-------------------------------------------------------------,
2 Large 2-Topping Pizzas 
$1 0 99 
plustax lliili..~~~:~~~~~rt:~'\~~~n;,s~~·-~~~r~S:e:'~r:"lof~~~':i r~~:i'e':rjy~~~S~1u:~~~J:~~:~~·g::~~~reas ttm1ted to ensure sate dnvtng. 
-------------------------------------------------------------,
2 Medium Cheese Pizzas 
7 99 
plustax 

289-0033 
Toppings Onions • Green Pepper • Beef Pepperoni • Mushrooms Black Olives • Ham Cheddar Cheese • Hot Peppers Sausage • Bacon • Pineapple 
Bread & Dipping Sauce $.99 

Pizza-Garlic-Jalapeno available on request Coke or Diet Coke $.50/can $1.49/2-liter 

~--~-----~ 
The Observer • SPORTS page 25 
• MEN'S TENNIS --­
Irish netters seek revenge 
ByB.J. HOOD 
SportS Writer 
The pressure is on the Notre Dame men's tennis team. After taking their last breather of the season last weekend, Notre Dame has five very important matchups remaining. 
Three of the five remaining matches are regional matches. Coach Bob Bayliss feels the Irish need to win two of those to secure a NCAA birth. The first of those is at 1 p.m. on Sunday against Northwestern. 
Last year, the Wildcats de­feated the Irish 4-3 in Evanston, and it was one of Notre Dame's two losses to re­gional opponents in the past four years. 
Because of this, Bayliss feels the once defeated Wildcat team is "scary." Karl Von Shantz from Sweden and senior Jeff Giraldo are Northwestern's top players. They also have an out­standing freshmen class featur­ing Ry Tarpley and Alex Witt, a friend of Irish player Ryan Simme. 
Northwestern has a match Saturday against Penn State, and the Irish are hoping for a long and difficult match for the Wildcats on Saturday. If they don't get that, they will just 
have to  rely  on  a  hot Irish  
squad.  
Ryan  Simme  could  not  

participate on Sunday due because he can only participate on twenty-five tennis dates. Mike Sprouse stepped in at number one singles and won his match, following beating Indiana's best player on Saturday. 
Ron Mencias also won his fifth consecutive match over the weekend. "I think you need seven or eight reliable players due to injuries and other situa­tions that come up," Bayliss said. "(Mencias) lost some close ones early, and has come on strong. He'll be needed as the season comes to a conclu­sion." 
Doubles have strong recently, and the number one singles tandem of Sprouse and Jason Pun continues to gain consis­tency. 
Notre Dame gets a chance to play against the teams they are competing against in the Midwest Regional, since follow­ing Northwestern they will also play Michigan and Ball State­controlling their own destiny. If they peak through this im­portant juncture of the season, that destiny will be at the Eck Tennis Pavilion for the Midwest Regional on May 6 and 7. 
The Observer/ Scott Mendenhall 

Jason Pun (above) will pair up with Mike Sprouse at number 1 dou­bles this weekend against Northwestern. 
The Ernan McMullin Perspeet;t-ve ~ertes in Philosoph-y 

:Daniel Denne"'t"'t'8 
:Philosophy o~ ltiind 
Friday and Saturday, March 31 & April I, 1995 
Friday, March 31 
H:fXIfW~ K£yrWf(' Address (102 Dl'!lartolo): 
Daniel Dennett (Tufts University) "Consciousness: 
Fame in the Brain, not Television" 
Saturday, April 1 
9:30 rw• Commerrtary on Dennett's Philosophy ofMind (126 UeBartolo): Dave Chalmers (Washington University) Leopold Stubenberg (University of Notre Dame) 
2:00p.m. Chris Hill (University of Arkansas) 
Presents the Largest Theatre Complex 
in the Mishawaka & South Bend Areal 
. ~,MOVIES 10 
• WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Straight sets for singles 
By MICHAEL DAY 
Sports Writer 
Complete and utter domina­tion. 
How else do you describe the way the Notre Dame women's tennis team annihilated Illinois on Thursday afternoon? 
The Irish, who entered the game ranked No. 16 in the na­tion, swept all six singles matches and won two of three doubles matches as they rolled to an easy 8-1 victory over the overmatched Illini. 
Leading the way for Notre Dame were junior Wendy 
Crabtree, senior Laura Schwab, junior Sherri Vitale, freshman Molly Gavin, junior Holyn Lord, and sophomore Erin Gowen. 
Crabtree rolled to an easy 6­0, 6-2 victory, while Lord (6-2, 6-4), Schwab (6-1, 6-1 ), Vitale (6-2, 6-1), Gavin (6-4, 6-1), and Gowen (6-2, 6-2) also had little trouble completing straight set victories. 
"I can't say I'm that surprised by how well we did as a team today," said Gowen following the match. "We've been work­ing pretty hard all season long, and it just seemed to pay off today in both our singles and 

•Specializing in engagement rings & anniversary rings· 
·Award Winning Designs• ·Custom Design and Repairs· 
~~ 
JEWELERS INC.
277..1010 
Cleveland Rd. East of UP Mall & US 31 North Villiage Mall 
doubles matches." 
The Irish were not quite as dominant in the doubles match­es, but they nevertheless accomplished what they sought out to do. Crabtree and Lord teamed up for a rather easy 6­4, 6-3 victory in the first dou­bles match of the afternoon, while Gavin and Gowen record­ed a 6-2, 6-4 win in the final competition of the day. 
The only blemish on an oth­erwise perfect afternoon for Notre Dame was a tough 7-6, 7­5 loss by Schwab and Kelley Olson in doubles competition. 
The Irish victory improved their overall record to 10-8, while the defeat dropped Illinois to 8-6. Although the season is still a long way from over, the squad is confident they can maintain their high level of play for the remainder of the year. 
"We knew they were a good team going into it," said Gowen, "but when we play our best, we know we can win every time out." 
Defeating any team in such ­an easy fashion is impressive enough, but when one consid­ers that Illinois is more than the nation's doormat, it is even more amazing. Indeed, Notre Dame is playing their best ten­nis of the season. 
Indiana Toil Road 
255-7777 
$3.'75 CHILDREN and S~~~!_OR_~f:_ITIZENS $3.'75 BARGAIN MATINEES -·aetore-6PM $5.'75 EVENING ADULT ADMISSION 9 MONTH LEASES FOR STUDENTS 
3 MONTH SUMMER LEASES 

Register to orin Movlel 10 Grand Open­
FREE! FREE! FREE! 
Ing Con...tleaturing 1DO's of prizes. First 
• Pool & Jacuzzi 

pnze roond airfare for two anywhere in the continental U.S. courtesy of Conference & 
MOVIE POSTERS, BUnONS, 
AND OTHER MEMORABILIA ·Club House
Travel Services. Inc. Four fabulous SportsGIVEN AWAY ALL WEEKEND Memorabilia Prlzea. Plus. T-Shirts and WHILE SUPPLIES LASTI Movies 10 Theatre tickets. • Washer/DryerReglaler to win ot Movlel 10 orNO PURCHASE NECESSARY. Conference & Travel Services. Inc. • Microwaves 
• Intruder Alanns 
... 


I 
-~~------------~~-----------------~-~-------~ ---­
I page 26 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, March 31, 1995 
--• TRACK AND fiElD 
Broncos bring strength 
By MICHAEL DAY meter high hurdles at the Although most of the top Sports Writer Stanford Invitational, while women will use the weekend to Payton captured second place rest and prepare for the 
It goes back to that age old in the 400-meter dash with a Dogwood Invitational on Aprilquestion: what is the telling stellar time of 47.60. 8, the balance of the squad will mark of a great athlete, ''I'm pretty pleased with the be competing in the Indiana tremendous speed or brute progress I've made so far this Intercollegiates this weekend. strength? season," said Williams. "I am 
Perhaps track and field fans happy, but I am not too sur­Among those with the week­
will fmd out on Saturday when prised. I would definitely like end off are junior Erica the quicker, sleeker Irish men to get my time as low as possi­Peterson and sophomorehost the Western Michigan ble and qualify for the NCAA's." Allison Howard. Last weekend 
Broncos, a team more Also expected to contribute at California, Peterson placedrenowned for their perfor­this weekend are junior John fourth in the 400-meter hurdles mance in the strength and en­
Curran in the 800, senior Joe with a time of 1:00.82, while durance events. Royer in the 1500, junior Jeff Howard's time of 56.20 was Hojnacki in the 800, juniors good enough for fourth place in 
Not that the Irish lack John Cown and Mike Smedley the 400-meter dash. strength or that Western in the 3000, and sophomore With the rough part of the Michigan is without speed and Matt Althoff in the 5000. track and field year rapidly ap­quickness, but there is no deny­In last weekend's Stanford proaching, the Irish women ing that each team's forte falls Invitational, Smedley placed look to use the time for a little at the exact opposite end of the first in the 3000-meter steeple rest and relaxation before spectrum. In this weekend's chase, defeating his closest op­plunging head first into a dual meet, Notre Dame's elite ponent by nearly 14 seconds. rugged, yet promising outdoor 
male athletes will go head to With a second place finish in season. head against their WMU coun­the 5000, Althoff also enjoyed a terparts in an important early successful outing for the Irish. season test for both squads. "Western Michigan is the type of team that is especially tough in an outdoor dual meet," said liead coach Joe Piane. "They have a couple of great runners, and they are strong in the out­door field events: the shot put, the javelin, and the hammer throw." 
-
IT'S A HIT! 
&-INCH 
• 
TUNA SUB 
~~-$1.99 
Foralimited time only 


Courtesy Notre Dame Sports Information Junior Mike Fleisch will throw the shot put against Western Michigan this weekend. 
BASEBALL 
BASEBALL 
BASEBALL 
BASEBALL 
LL 

THIS SAT. & SUN.! Noon Doubleheaders 
Friday, March 31, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 27 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM MIKE PETERS CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 

DILBERT 
I'D LIKE. TO KICK-OFF THE 
PR.OJUT WIT!-\ THE. 
TRADITIONI\l 5AO­
f"\OUTHING OF THE GUY WHO LJORKE.O ON Tl-\15 
BE. FORE. 
) 
6,.. 
z

'-'"tr'\. HIS BRAIN 
~ 
:0
wOULD RA\TLE IN A fLE.A'5 
sKULL~ 


,_ 
BILL WATTERSON 
SCOTT ADAMS 
01-\, AND I'LL NE.£.0 '<OUR 
FILE.S. 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 27 Like 48 Cattleman? Schoenberg's 53 Magic org. 
1 Finance works 56 Trace6 Tore 29 Anomalous 57 Superior10 Trick 
33 Daly role 58 Tribal leader 14 "There!" 60Quechua
34 Recoiled 15 Drench, with 61 French chef's 
35 Time-worn 

"down" dish
37 Civic 

16 Patron saint of 62 Tuscan city 
organization

Norway 63 Marquess or
38 Manilow's "­17 Mississippi It Be Magic" viscount quartet 64Like-of
39 Group of turtles 18 Plenty 
bricks40 Receive 65 Dangerously111---Bay, 41 Cook squash, seductive
Hawaii perhaps 20 Like Chablis 42 Early tennis star 
DOWN
21 Butcher? --Hull Jacobs 24 Nell portrayer in 43 Nerve impulse 1 Eventful times a 1994 movie point 2 Ship's prow 
26 With 46-Across, 45 Aristocracy 3 Orthopedist? a successor to 46 See 26-Across 4 Violinist Bull Buster Crabbe 47 Afflict suddenly 5 Toilsome part of 
the week &Ignominy 7 Kind of shirt 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
a Workers' purchase arrangement, for short 
9 Dissuaded 30 Roofing item 45 Plow horse 51 Radix,
-=-t~~+--R 10 Herr Goethe 31 Guidance command botanically

"""""'-+=+-'~ 11 Got down 12-Aito 
counselor? 47 Flock of wild 52 Hip about 32 "Oklahoma!" fowl 
54 Nota­

13-excellence 55 Flaherty's "Man aunt 48Send22Trouble 
of-"
34 Bygone coins 

23 Artery 49 Prong 
59 Weeks per 
36 Gainsay

25 A good deal of 50 If ever annum binary code 
38 Largest living r::-+-=+:~ 27 Tourist city near 
rodent Nimes 39 Auto pioneer 
Get answers to any three clues 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
~~~-=+:::-! 29 "On the Beach" 42 Doris Duke, e.g. author 44 Sweet drink 
5656 (75¢ each minute). 
Looking for design experience? 
The Observer is now accepting applications for the paid position of Design Editor. 
Call Jackie at 1-5303. 

NAZZ is this Friday starting at 7:30pm in STEPAN CENTER 

-
·----------------.-------------------------· 
•1 
SPORTS 
page 28 Friday, March 31, 1995 
• 
By DAVID TREACY Sports Writer 
The Irish are perfect at home this season. 
In fact, they didn't lose a home game last season. 
Actually, the Irish, holding steady at #17 in the USILA poll, are 13-1 over the past three seasons in Moose Krause sta­dium. Included in that streak is a 22-11 victory against Butler, this week's visitor to Notre Dame's home field. 
The streak should continue through this Saturday. 
Butler (3-5) has been an easy mark during the past two years for the Irish, falling both times. The Bulldogs lost in Indianapolis last year to the h:ish, 18-10. The Bulldogs are a young program which has no seniors on the team. 
Butler is led by junior attacker Craig Kahoun who paces the team with 29 points. Notre Dame Head coach Kevin Corrigan expects a tough effort from Kahoun. "Craig Kahoun is an excellent player, and may be one of the best attackers we'll face this year. He's very athlet­ic, and has good skills. He also is a very determined scorer." 


Butler's offensive game is run­its easy to be lured into. Our and-gun lacrosse. They like to players just have to maintain use their pressure defense and their composure and play the transition offense to create easy style of game that is best for goals and coerce the opposition our program," added Corrigan. to try and match them. Butler has been platooning 
"It's a fun game to play, and two keepers throughout the season. Consequently, their net play is not a strength of the team. "They'll mix and match, try and find the guy who'll have success against the opposing team," Corrigan said. 
Notre Dame has been led this season by the high-scoring duo of Randy Colley and Will Sutton. Between the two of them, they have amassed 26 goals and 9 assists for the Irish. 
Colley, one of the squad's tri­captains, is closing in on the Notre Dame all-time assist title. He needs just seven more as­sists to take the lead with 89 to­tal dishes. Colley already holds the Irish records for all-time points and goals. 
This year's squad plays de­fensive-minded lacrosse. The defense, led by tri-captains Mike Iorio and Billy Gallagher, has responded well to the pres­sure. The Irish have held op­ponents to eight goals a game, and has pressured opponents into taking fifty shots less than Notre Dame on the season. 
A large part of the defensive success comes from the play of keeper Alex Cade. The fresh­man has a .635 save percent­age in the crease, and has al­lowed less than seven goals per game. His play has steadily improved, as he notched a ca­reer high save total against #19 Hobart last weekend with 13 stops. 
SPORTS
Friday, March 31 

Saturday, April 1 Sunday, April 3 
Monday, April 4 
No sports today. 
ND Baseball vs. Butler (2), Noon 
No sports today. 
at a 

ND Men's Track vs. W. Michigan f~l \7 \· r.::"7 ND Baseball vs. Buder (2), Noon 
For RecSports activities, check 

ND Lacrosse vs. Buder, 3 p.m. ND Softball at Buder 
For RecSports activities, check 
i~ . 
11
The Observer Sports Briefs 
•l: 
The Observer Sports Briefs 

SMC Tennis vs. Valparaiso ~ 1 : . ;.;:: ND Men's Tennis vs. Northwestern,
~ t ~:' (:. ~:
on page 21. 
SMC Track at Manchester 
on page 21. 
1 p.m. 
ND Softball at Wright State 
:\~:/i_J/&;.;L.ii 












