
Thursday, March 9, 1995• Vol. XXVI No. 103 
TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Faculty 
ND/SMC relations examined at forum 
tions, we hope that the students and Notre Dame students dis­Mary's because they were not
to receive Students meet of the two colleges will be able cussed their relations. accepted into Notre Dame. to better understand and The groups were led by facili­This influences Saint Mary's respect the different living tators involved in the student women to feel like second-class
to discuss 

styles of each campus," said El­government of one of the citizens when visiting Notre

awards 
Ganzouri. schools. Dame," said Mike Flood, astereotypes The president of the Notre The discussions in each of the junior in Zahm Hall. 
By SARA WOODEN Dame Student Body, David groups addressed the relations Suggestions to improve these
Nrws Writer 
By CAROLINE BLUM Hungeling, also expressed the between Saint Mary's and relations involve initiating Nrws Writer importance of maintaining good Notre Dame women. The con­inter-hall sports involving the
Five faculty members of 
student relations between the clusions found extreme stereo­two campuses, developing "sis­Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Continuing to better the rela­two schools. types embedded in both groups ter dorms" between the cam­College have been selected by tionships between Saint Mary's He explained that through of women. The cause of the puses of Saint Mary's and Notre the Lilly Endowment to receive and Notre Dame students is a calling together the leaders and stereotypes was alleged to Dame, and insisting on the endfour of sixteen awards in its major issue because of the long students of the two campuses, result from the warnings which to the spreading of stereotypes Summer Stipend program. 
tradition between the schools, the future and present leaders Freshmen Orientation leaders during Orientation. 
Professors Susan Duff and according to Saint Mary's will be able to hear from the fixate in the freshmen's brains The conflict between rela­
Doris Watt of Saint Mary's 
Student Body President Noha students and work to better right off the bat. These stereo­tions is not strictly between the
were the recipients of one 
El-Ganzouri, who spoke at a their relationships with each types supply Saint Mary's stu­women of the two colleges,award, as was their colleague forum last night in Haggar other. dents with feelings of inferiori­however.
David Stefancic. Professors Parlor at Saint Mary's. The next part of the forum ty. "I have heard much worse
Hafael Tenorio and Jeanne 
"Through a forum on Notre involved dividing into small "The biggest misconception comments about Saint Mary's Dame and Saint Mary's rela-groups. In the small groups, a about Saint Mary's women is 
see FACULTY/ page 4 
see ND/SMC/ page 4
combination of Saint Mary's that they are only at Saint 

Committee addresses tolerance, awareness 
By HEATHER TOMLINSON According to Rucavado, how­News Writer ever, there has already been much support shown for the 
The formation of a Toler­committee by students and fac­ance/Awareness Committee ulty alike. He also said the (TAC) to serve the Notre Dame Center for Social Concerns and and Saint Mary's community groups affiliated with the cen­was discussed at an organiza­ter have been very supportive tional meeting last night in the as well. basement of the LaFortune TAC hopes to facilitate fur­Student Center. ther support and communica­
TAC co-chairs, Gina tion on Notre Dame and Saint Rucavado and Chris Pagen, Mary's campuses with an e­believe ·that Notre Dame and mail system through which Saint Mary's lack an "all-inclu­anyone interested may obtain sive tolerance group." They information about a variety of hope that TAC will be just such campus events. a group by acting as a "bridge Upcoming TAC events will in­and a communication network clude the distribution of gray between the social concerns ribbons for students to wear, groups" at the schools. The signifying individual expression committee's major goal is an of tolerance, in addition to a increased sense of community "diversity festival" supported at Notre Dame and Saint by Pax Christi and Amnesty Mary's through tolerance, International with food and live awareness, and communica­bands. Pagen said that the tion. Pagen and Rucavado feel group believes it can help to that the key to building such a alleviate "ignorance and quiet community is visible support. acceptance of' intolerance and 
"A lot of support is invisible," exclusion of groups at Notre said Rucavado. "Silence," Dame and Saint Mary's. 
Dr. Gary Mitchell, a South Bend physician, discussed the new moral dilemmas that physicians must 
added Pagen, "isn't really sup­"The committee," Pagen said, 
face, including passive and active euthanasia. See story, page 3. 
port at all." "is very hopeful." 
Catholic colleges divided on gay recognition 
Editor's Note: This is the third installment of a four-part series examining the dzlemma of being gay and Catholic. 
By LIZ FORAN Associate News Editor 
Catholic colleges and univer­sities around the nation are di­vided in their response to gay and lesbian groups on campus. some even lacking the existence of this type of group. 
Several Catholic schools offi­cially recognize gay and lesbian groups on campus, and they are accorded the same rights and privilges as other campus groups. Among these are De­Paul University and Loyola Uni­versity. both in Illinois. Saint John's University, Saint Louis University and Santa Clara Uni­versity do so as well. 
Universities administered by the Society of Jesus have sane­tioned homosexual groups on several occasions. 
Other Catholic colleges do not afford the groups official recog­nition. but do offer them at least some priviliges of other officially recognized organiza­tions. Boston College and Georgetown University are universities who have taken this route. 
Georgetown University, how­ever, was forced into granting its campus homosexual group the same rights and privilges as other campus organization through the existence of the Human Rights Act. Students took the university to court in the 1980s. and the Washington Court of Appeals decided that the university must provide gay and lesbian groups with the same "tangible benefits" re­ceived by all other university groups. 
And several other Catholic 
Gayandt·
Catholic . 
Part 3 of 4 ~, 
colleges and universities do not officially recognize or provide gay and lesbian student groups with recognition or priviliges, but allow student support groups to meet through their campus ministy functions. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's appear to be alone in their de­cision not to officially recognize the gay and lesbian student group on campus or to afford it any rights or priviliges of other groups, including meeting in University facilities, advertising in University or campus publi­cations, or receiving any fund­ing from the school. 
The University's action re­garding GLND/SMC ignited an ongoing dispute on campus which has made international news. The University adminis­tration says that GLND/SMC's purpose is not compatible with the teaching of the Catholic Church or the mission of the University. In 1985, DePaul Univeristy became the first Catholic university to officially recognize a gay and lesbian student group, according to Peggy Clark. director of student life. 

"They're registered like any other group," she said. "The university's stance on this group is that while the church does not support homosexual activity, we believe the univer­sity does support homose·xual people." 
St. Louis University, a Catholic school of 11,700, granted recognition to their gay and lesbian student group, the Rainbow Alliance, in 1991. The group was aided by members of the school's administration in seeking its official recognition status, according to Julie Saker, assistant vice president and di­rector of student life. 
Boston College holds a similar attitude regarding the gay and lesbian group on campus, al­though by choice. "We've esen­tially done what Georgetown has been legally required to do, not because we were legally required to do it but because we thought it was the morally right thing to do," said Robert Sherwood, dean of student de­velopment at Boston College. 
Other Catholic schools report having no gay and lesbian group on campus. Included among these are St. John's University, Hegis University and Duquesne University. 
The South Bend Tribune con­tributed to this report. 
-J 1 ..,..-,-. r •. ~~-~ 
page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Thursday, March 9, 1995 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
To all Prank call reci pi ents ... 

Sunday morning, still groggy from an overrun cold and, in search of the kleenex box, I answered the ringing telephone. An unfamiliar male voiCe wished me good morning and asked if I would mind answering a few questions for a survey . Without thinking, I answered yes, then realized that he hadn't identified himself. 
"I work for the Homer Project for the greater Chicago area. We are conducting sur­veys to help kids stop having kids," he said and then smoothly moved onto simple ques­tions about today's American family. I answered him absentmindedly as I looked around the room for a tissue. 
Then, quite suddenly, the stranger's ques­tions took a more explicit turn. Frankly I wasn't in the mood to hear about this stranger's genital size, and, in darned annoy­ance, I slammed down the phone. 
It was then that I realized that I should have listened to my grandmother. She hated prank callers with a passion, and wasn't content to stand by and let them get the best of her. So she had a planned counter-attack, a gem of an idea, that came in the shape of a small sil­ver whistle. Grandma kept this whistle in the top dresser drawer next to the phone so that, day or night, she would be ready for those "smart-aleck whipper-snappers." 
Imagine the drama of it, if you will. The phone rings and Grandma answers noncha­lantly. The gravelly voice at the other end of the wire rasps away with enough crude remarks to send the prankster to deepfreeze hell, free of charge. But she's ready for this obnoxious creep. Quicker than a cowboy at a showdown, Grandma whips open the drawer, flips out the whistle into her waiting palm, and fires away into the receiver. 
SHHHHHRRRRRRRRIIIIIIIIEEEEEEEE!!! 
Good-bye prank-call addiction. Hello blastout 
eardrum. 
I don't doubt that Grandma and her trusty whistle reformed many a hopeless PCA (prank-calling addict). At first glance, this scrap of indented metal may not have looked like much, but it had the sounding impact of a thousand sharpened fingernails clawdrawn in ragged succession across a shrieking black­board. 
To be fair, gentler ways of dealing with prank callers do exist. Take the story of a woman, a deeply religious lady, who answered the phone one evening to hear the polluted profanity of a scratchy-voiced adoles­cent. Politely, the woman waited until the caller had paused from his stream of insults too take in a fresh supply of useless air. Then, with the devout serenity of a saint, she sweetly informed him, "You know God still loves you very much. In the name of Jesus Christ, I forgive you as well." 
Through the wire was only dazed silence; then a sharp click, followed by the dial tone. We can assume that this prank caller was reformed as well. Lucky him, he got to keep his eardrum. 
In all seriousness, prank calls are no fun, 
and, as Grandma used to say, "a menace to 
society." She invested in a whistle to solve the 
problem. Someone else invested in God for 
the answer. I assume that there's a whole 
legion of people out there with their own cre­
ative ways of dealing with prank callers. 
More power to them for trying. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Viewpoint Gwendolyn Norgle Michael O'Hara Edward lmbus Carolyn Wilkins Sports Production 
Tom Schlidt Susan Marx Abby May Jackie Moser Graphics Lab Tech 
• WORlD AT A GLANCE 

Two US diplomats killed in Pakistan, one wounded 
KARACHI, Pakistan gets for a host of violence-prone ele­
The white Toyota van carrying ments in chaotic Karachi, including employees to the U.S. Consulate halted drug barons, Muslim radicals and ter­in the heavy morning traffic at a red rorists seeking revenge for last month's light. A yellow Suzuki taxi also extradition of the man accused of mas­stopped, and two men with AK-47s terminding the World Trade Center leaped out. bombing in New York. 
The gunmen methodically sprayed Americans who work at the con­the van with bullets, firing first into the sulate, already under a heightened front windshield, then into the back. security because of almost daily gun 
When they sped away, two battles in the city, were advised Americans were dead or dying in the Wednesday to stay home for safety. van's blood-drenched, blue-grey interi­The attack couldn't have come at a or. A third was seriously hurt. worse time for Ms. Bhutto, who is try­
No one claimed responsibility for ing to rekindle the close relations Wednesday's attack, which Prime Pakistan had with Washington when it Minister Benazir Bhutto called "part of was funneling aid to Muslim guerrillas a well-planned campaign of terror­in Afghanistan in the 1980s. ism." Nor was the motive clear. Ms. Bhutto plans to visit Washington 
President Clinton called it a "cow­next month. Before that, Hillary ardly act." The FBI sent an anti-terror­Rodham Clinton is to visit Pakistan ­ism team to Pakistan to help investi­although not Karachi -as part of an gate. Asian tour. The White House said her 
Americans are seen as potential tar-trip would not be affected. 

Suicide suspected in death by lions 
WASHINGTON 
The woman found dead inside the lions' pen at the 
National Zoo over the weekend committed suicide, the 
medical examiner ruled. Margaret Davis King, 36, of 
Little Rock, Ark., died of massive blood loss after being 
mauled by one or both of the lions housed in the pen, Dr. 
Joye Carter, chief medical examiner for the District of 
Columbia, said Tuesday. King's mutilated body was dis­
covered early Saturday morning by a zoo keeper. She 
was not identified until Monday because parts of her 
arms had been chewed away and fingerprinting was 
impossible, Carter said. She could not determine how 
long the victim suffered before succumbing to her 
injuries, but "it was certainly a death that occurred over 
several minutes," Carter said. Records show the victim 
had a history of mental health problems. The outdoor 
lions' pen is separated from the public viewing area by a 
3 1/2-foot wall that drops nine feet into a water-filled 
moat. Carter said it appeared King jumped over the wall. 
Taco Bell sued for alleged tainted food 
TERRE HAUTE, Ind. 

A Terre Haute couple stricken last year with hepatitis A is suing Taco Bell Corp., alleging they contracted the dis­ease from eating tainted food. Amy Shell, 28, says she was affiicted so severely she had to have her gallbladder removed. The Shells were two of 14 cases of hepatitis A in Vigo County reported by county health department officials last July. Twelve of the 14 people reported eat­ing at a Taco Bell at 3132 Wabash Ave. in Terre Haute, and the other two had family members who ate there, according to an Indiana State Department of Health report. The customers fell sick between May 1 and June 4, and the cases were reported to the county health department in June 1994 by physicians and hospitals. Blood tests given to Taco Bell employees last June turned up a worker who showed positive for hepatitis A.In their suit, they are alleging negligent food preparation. Hepatitis A can be contracted from fecal contamination of food by an employee who fails to wash his hands after a trip to the bathroom, health experts say. 
House passes limit on stock lawsuits 
WASHINGTON 
Culminating a five-year effort, the House passed major changes to federal securities laws Wednesday aimed at restricting fraud lawsuits filed by shareholders. 
The bill, the "Securities Litigation Reform Act," passed by a strong 325-99 margin after eight hours of debate that stretched over two days. The margin exceed the votes necessary to override a presidential veto, which has been hinted by the White House. 
House Speaker Newt Gingrich, R-Ga., called the margin astonishing, "given all the resources of the trial lawyers (opposing the bill)." 
Liberal Democrats, joining consumer groups in claim­ing that the bill damages investors' rights, tried to dilute it with six amendments, all handily defeated. Two amendments proposed by moderate Democrats were approved by a voice vote. 
The securities litigation reform bill is one of three "Contract With America" measures that would make far­reaching changes in the nation's civil legal system. 
Critics contend the measure is a wish list for corporate interests. 
Accountants and high technology firms contend they're being hammered with an increasing number of securities fraud lawsuits, which can cost millions of dollars to resolve. 


Thursday, March 9 
Accu·Weather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 


Limiting lawsuits 
Key points of the Republican package of bills to cl')ange the !llllion'11 legal sy61am: 
ATTORNEY ACCOUNTABILITY ACT 



. • Parties who refuse asettlement oller lllld get less through atrial would be required to pay the other slde"s legal fees. This "loser pays" rule. would apply to state claims filed in fedefal court involving parties 
.

.!rom different 618tes. . 
. . · • lo1lin9 parties would fl!l)' no more than they spent on their own allorneys. Courts could limft legal lee awards. 
. 

• 
Scienlifloopinions bal'!ed Ullless 'scientifically valid lllld reliable.' 

• 
Sanctions would be applied againSt lawyers who file friVolous lawsuits. 


.Jf.:·: 

SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT .. •... Losing. parties. who file fnYOious lawsuits would pay winner's lees. ·l!ll Defines 'reckless conducf' by executives. . 
• tnvestOffl must specify misconduct When they allege fraud. 


• The instances in which companies defraud the entire market would be written l!llo law. 
COMMON SENSE LEGAL STANDARDS REFORM ACT 

· • UmitS punluve damages awarded In most state and federal civil lawsuits, not just product liability suitS. 
.· • PUIIitive damages would only be awarded in cases where intention to cause harm is proven. . 
• Business liability would be limited to a company's share of harm 
suffered. Damages could be reduced HprOduct is altered or misused. barred ff accldent is caused by drug or alcohol abuse. 
• Would protect mallt.lfacturers from being sued lor damages more than 15 years after they.~ a pr~~.UIIIess lheJ>roduct caused a chronic mness. 
AP/Wm. J. Castello 
Chris Mullins Nicky Baril! 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Via AssocJatfKI Pmss Graph/csNet 01995 Accu-Weather, Inc. 




The Observer 
is now accepting applications for: 
Accent Writers Accent Music Critics Accent Literary Critics Accent Copy Editors Assistant Accent Editors 
Please submit a one page statement ofintent to Krista in 314 LaFortune by 2 p.m.March 24th. Call 631-4540 for more information. 
A 
tinctions between active and Mitchell said that "the bound­In conclusion, Mitchell and passive euthanasia. He said aries of moral behavior are Fromm agreed that the "Jaw is that involuntary, direct eu­changing rapidly" in our society no substitute for reason." In thanasia is vastly different from today. making an ethical decision, a indirect euthanasia, the pri­Both physicians agreed that physician must take into con­mary goal of which is to relieve a patient should be given sideration legal aspects, but pain and suffering, but has the autonomy in judging his or her must also assess the goals and side effect of hastening a pa­quality of life and in deciding decision-making capabilities of tient's death. whether or not to continue liv­the patient and their family, 
He said that passive euthana­ing with a terminal illness. they said. In order to do so, a sia was easiest to follow when But there is great potential medical care-giver should have coupled with an advanced di­for abuse of this decision a close relationship with his or rective defined, which he process by both patients and her patients, and should em­labeled as "directions for a physician. phasize the role of communica­physician and a patient's family tion within this relationship, as to what to do in the event Another ethical dilemma pre­according to Mitchell and that the patient can not speak sented was this: Does a physi­Fromm. for himself." cian have a duty to end human The lecture was part of the 
Due to the increased publicity suffering, even if it means tak­Mini Medical School Series pre­given to physicians like Dr. ing a life? Or is aiding a sented by the Indiana Uni­Jack Kevorkian, and the patient to hasten death a pro­versity School of Medicine and advanced technology available fessional betrayal of a physi­the South Bend Center for to health care providers, cian's oath to heal? Medical Education. 
Rotary scholarship available 
By PEGGY LENCZEWSKI All scholars would be ex­Dame and Saint Mary's stu­News Writer pected to appear before Rotary dents would be excellent candi­Club foundations in their host dates and would also be excel­
Students in the Saint Mary's countries to spread amiable lent ambassadors." and Notre Dame community feelings. Applications may be picked have the opportunity to apply The scholarship is open to up at the Saint Mary's Aca­for an Ambassadorial Scholar­any student who has completed demic Affairs Office, 136 Le­ship sponsored by the Roseland two years of university study. Mans Hall. Applicants may also Rotary Club. An Academic-Year Ambas­write and request an applica­
The purpose of the Ambas­sadorial Scholarship finances tion through · Mr. Louis sadorial Scholarship is to foster one academic year. The schol­Tondreau at 418 East Angela understanding and amiable re­arship provides up to $21,500 Boulevard, South Bend Indiana, lations between people of for­for study abroad. 46617. eign countries. According to A multi-year Ambassadorial Applications for the scholar­Roseland Rotary representative Scholarship is also available ships must be returned to Mr. Louis Trondreau, all Rotary which would provide funding Tondreau by April 1, 1995, and Scholars are expected to act as for two or three years of for­would be used towards study "ambassadors of American eign study. This scholarship during the 1996-97 academic good will" to their foreign host would be a flat grant of up to year. country. $10,000 for each year of study. If selected, students may only 
There is also a Cultural Am­use their Rotary scholarship to­
bassadorial Scholarship, which wards funding their study 
funds students for a three to six abroad. 
month cultural immersion and The Rotary Club Scholarships 
intense language study. are intended to be used with 
Tondreau hopes that the the primary intention of provid­
scholarships will open up op­ing support and recognition for 
portunities to students in the the Rotary Foundation 
community, because "Notre International here and abroad. 
10.. 

EMILY AT 
LOVE YOU! 
LOVE US) 
ALLSION 
ATTENTION: CINCINNATI AREA STUDENTS 
The 1995 Xavier summer sessions bulletin of classes & workshops Is now available. Undergraduate &graduate level courses offered in the areas of arts and sciences, business, education, professional studies and social sciences. Session dates: May 15-June 22 &July 3-August 10 CALL OR WRITE: 
~VIEK 
By NICOLE SHILKOFSKI 
News Writer 
The question of whether or not doctors should help patients die a "good death" was explored last night by Dr. Gary Mitchell and Dr. Gary Fromm, established members of the medical field. 
Mitchell is a clinical professor of medicine at the Indiana Uni­versity Medical Center in Indi­anapolis. 
Fromm has served as chair­person of the Memorial Hospital Medical Ethics Com­mittee for ten years. 
Both speakers addressed the issues of advance directives, living wills, physician assisted suicide and euthanasia. 
Fromm elaborated on the dis­

---~--­
~--------­
Thursday, March 9, 1995 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Doctors explore ethical questions of medicine 
You've worked hard and now it's time to relax and have fun! Keep these things In mind during your vacation: 
.. Remember you don't have to be .. Respect other people's right. and your "drunk" to be Impaired-even one or own-to choose not to drink. two drinks affect your driving skills. 
.. Respect state laws and campus policies . .. Stay out of dangerous situations 
.. Wear your seat belt-It's your best Involving alcohol, whether In a car, a protection against an Impaired driver.

bar, or a bedroom. .. If one of your friends drinks to the point 
.. Drinking, drugs and driving don't mix. 
of passing out, alcohol poisoning Is a

.. Take your turn being a designated real danger. If you are the least bit driver-get everyone where they are concerned, please seek medical going safely. attention. Better safe than sorry! 
Play it safe. Because memories are only fond if you have them. 
For More information contact: Office of Alcohol and Drug Education, Mezzanine Level, LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556. Ph: (219) 631-7970 
I 
Summer Sessions UNIVERSITY 
3800 Victory Parkway Cincinnati, OH 45207·3120 513-745-4381 
Xavier University is an academic comnumily commiJted to eqiVJi opportiUiily for all persons regard/us ofage, se:.c, race, religion, handicap, or nation.'ll origin . 
.... -· , .. 
------------------------.-~------------------------:-----­
-~---­

page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 9, 1995 
Faculty 
continued from page 1 
Kilde were the recipients from Notre Dame. 
The winners receive $5,000 to develop new courses for their universities. 
At Notre Dame, faculty mem­bers were requested to submit a proposal which was then re­viewed by a committee from the Provost's office, chaired by Isabel Charles. The office sub­mitted the chosen proposals to Lilly Endowment, where they competed with other proposals from around the state for six­teen awards. 
Duff and Watt of Saint Mary's will be developing a course entitled, "Environmental Science." Watt said that her current interests and work with the Biology Club are re­flected in the course topic. The Biology Club recently adopted 16 acres of rain forest and who hold a special display in the library entitled "The Rainforest in Your Living Room" 
"There are a lot of students asking for environmental sci­ence courses," according to Watt. "I'm hoping that this will help to lead the way" to more courses in this area, she said. 
"State and Nation Building" will be the title of the course developed by Stefancic. 
Tenorio will develop the 
course, "Game Theory in Business." Tenorio, who already teaches "Strategic Decision Making," stated that "most top business programs in the country have courses like these." 
"We need something in this area of our curriculum if we want to remain competitive," said Tenorio. 
Kilde will be developing a course entitled, "Everyday Life in Early America -Colonization to the Civil War". 
"It will be an intradiciplinary study of everyday life, how or­dinary people lived through the period," according to Kilde. 
Kilde, who already teaches Nineteenth Century Cultural and Architectural History, said she felt that this would "help to round out the American studies program." 
"We want to cover the colo­nial period," said Kilde. Her course will be cross-listed in the History and Gender Studies departments. 
According to Lilly Endowment Vice President Ralph Lundgren, "the Endowment recognizes that time constraints imposed on faculty during the academic year may be overwhelming. However, the opportunity to develop a new course can be a valuable form of professional renewal for faculty and can provide fresh perspectives for students." 
Recycle the Observer 

PERSONAL ASSISTAN"TJ PRESIDENT OF GROWING COMPANY SEEKING AN ENERGETIC, CHRISTIAN INDNIDVAL FOR FULL TIME POSITION OF PERSONAL ASSISTANT. INDNIDVAL SHOULD HAVE DEGREE OR EQVNALENT EXPERIENCE IN THE FOLLOWING AREAS: *LIBRARY SCIENCE *PHYSICAL FITNESS *VEGETARIAN COOKING SALARY IS NEGOTIABLE. PLEASE SEND YOUR RESUME TO D.W. WALLCOVERING 514 W. MILL STREET (18TH RD.) CULVER, INDIANA 46511 ATT: CHRISTINA BALABAN  
JAZZMAN'S 525 N. HILL ST. 233-8505 Presents: 3 Nights of College Celebration!!!! A Post Exam and Pre-Spring Vacation Celebration lHURSDAY, MARCH 9-PRINCE NIGHT FRIDAY, MARCH 10-GRATEFUL DEAD NIGHT SATURDAY, MARCH 11-DISCO/HIP HOP NIGHT Bring your favorite tape or CD to play by any of the above artist before 10 p.m. and you will receive a door prize, and if you are wearing a mini-skirt with a tape or CD in hand before 10 p.m. you will receive two door prizes.$3.00 admission with student ID, $5.00 w I o student or staff ID. Doors open 8 p.m. State law requires all patrons entering must be 21 or older with proof of age requirement upon request for entry.  
JUST 30 MINUTES FROM THE N.D. CAMPUSL ~~ALI~D~ALTERNA~~U~DA~~ _j US 20 E. TO SR 19 NORTH 


Dame students to want to come pants in the forum. 
over to Saint Mary's. "Guys just can't pop over and This complication is derived see us at Saint Mary's, and then continued from page 1 from Saint Mary's inability to stop and see someone else. broadcast events at Notre They're required to be escorted women from Notre Dame men Dame. at all times, which suppliesthan Notre Dame women," said them with feelings that they are Flood. Jill Broemmel, the represen­unwelcome," said Saint Mary's
The problems in relations tative from Saint Mary's Board sophomore Emily Ruffner. 
ND/SMC 
between Notre Dame men and 

of Governance, said, "Saint The forum ended with the Saint Mary's women stem in Mary's needs to inform the hope to discontinue the stereo­
their social relationships. Most community of their great facili­types and to begin greaterof the men at Notre Dame only ties, such as Dalloway's, Angela friendships between the men interact with the women of Athletic Facility, or the cozy and women of Saint Mary's and Saint Mary's during the week­library. We know what Notre Notre Dame. 
ends at parties or bars, making Dame has to offer us, but Notre their relations with each other 
Dame does not know what Some ideas included the strictly social. Saint Mary's has to offer them." meeting of the class councils of The discussion of the alcohol each college every month, the The way to improve these policy at Saint Mary's was also working together of women on relations, participants in the addressed. Many students said major issues, and the discontin­
forum decided, is to incorpo­

that the reason for the absence uation of the spreading of rate Notre Dame and Saint of Notre Dame students at Saint stereotypes.Mary's students in more per­Mary's on the weekends is the El-Ganzouri left the forum sonal situations. The freshmen campus's inability to throw with a reminder of the colleges' 
classes of Notre Dame and parties. heritage.
Saint Mary's have both stepped Another factor harming rela­"Notre Dame and Saint in this direction with their tions is the "jailhouse" that Mary's have such a long history recent "ND/SMC Ski Trip." Notre Dame men feel they and tradition together, so why
Another popular issue enter into when visiting Saint should we sit and let that be involved the desire for Notre Mary's, according to partici-abolished?" said El-Ganzouri. 
The Observer 
Viewpoint is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Assistant Viewpoint Editor Copy Editor 
Please submit a resume and personal statement by Thursday, March 9, at 5 p.m. For more info call Michael O'Hara at 1-4541 or 4-3597. 
The ZOO, Michiana's wildest new rock club is the place to be every Thursday night for the best alternative music this area has to offer. Not some wimpy DJ or juke box but LIVE bands every Thursday night. Alternative Thursdays every Thursday at The ZOO. 
T H E

,----------,
1 1/2 OFF ADMISSION 1 
I WI T H 5 T U D E N T I. D. I I SEE I 
zoo 
w I L D F u N
: MYRLLENS : 
IN THE REAR OF PARKMDR
: COAT : PLAZA ELKHART 
I TONIGHT I 

.-------~-----~-----·---· -------~--­
Thursday, March 9, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
O'Leary suggests an end to violence in Ireland 
Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 
NO ANNUAL FEE. To apply, call 288-NDCU. 

1 The Observer 
the Advertising Department is now accepting applications for 
dvertising Account 
~ 
NOTRE DAME 

Executives
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
Independent of the University 

Are you creative? Do you like working with people? Do you want experiehce in sales? Do you need some cash? join us!
~~asyli,~t!ili 


Hnd so It mas smd 1 
'Illat on thr <drand & @orious Hghth & Httra Oa~ <dod did mdrrd crrarr Brrr To krcp thr nnsh from (1onqurring thr ((:orld 
Super Saver Prices on Roses 

Submit a one page statement with resume 
Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, 

to John Potter in 314 LaFortune by Spring 
Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
Clocktower Square 

Break. Call John at 1-6900 or 4-1023 with 
5140031 North 
(219)277-1291
South Bend, IN 46637 
uesuons. 

CLASS OF '96 
This Is Our Last Chance! 
The Senior Class Officers are accepting applications for positions on the following cpmmittees: 
• Alumni[Senior Club • Class IJ'rips• Fundraasing • Senior Concerns·Publicity • On-Campus Activities -Service • Graduation

• 
Senior Week/ Welcome Back Week 

• 
Class of '96 Alumni Club 



"Get Involved -The More, The Merrier!!' 
Applications can be picked up in the Student Government Office, and are due by Friday, March 24th. 
Kevin Paul Nata KalaKUWIK BERREftiNI EBELING GRISHAM President Vice-President Treasurer Secretarn 
J 

By MICHAEL EARLEY Republican supporters has left time period. News Writer Ulster county in disarray since However, the shooting now the British divided up the island has stopped and talks are con­
The years of violence in of Ireland in 1920. tinuing between the two gov­Northern Ireland may have O'Leary, who serves as a ernments to see if a permanent come to an end, according to commentator on CNN for resolution can be ironed out, Professor Brendan O'Leary of Northern Irish affairs, stated according to O'Leary, who the London School of that this violence between the works as a "shadow cabinet" Economics, who spoke on paramilitary factions has killed official for the Labour party in "Hesolving Northern Ireland" over 3,000 people since 1969. the British parliament. yesterday. This rate, O'Leary said, would The heart of the conflict lies 
The tumultuous relationship have taken the lives of over in the argument of who should between Unionist and 500,000 Americans in the same have control of Northern 
Relax and lighten your load 
with our VISA Classic. 
Use it for emergencies or 

for your purchasing convenience. 
It's one cool card! 


Ireland, which is now under the control of Great Britain, O'Leary said. 
O'Leary stated that the Republicans, the minority, de­sire to return the area of dis­pute to the Irish. However, the Unionist majority wants Northern Ireland to remain un­der British control. 
According to O'Leary, the most ideal resolution would allow the British and Irish states to share control of the disputed area. 
In a situation like this, there would be the creation of a tri­presidency that would create some kind of balance between the conflicting parties to keep one from dominating the oth­ers, O'Leary said. 
While resolutions will not be finalized for a few years, O'Leary discussed the current issues on the table. 
Moderators are now working towards the release of prison­ers by both parties, he said, as well as the demilitarization of Northern Ireland by British forces. O'Leary said that the most likely end would result in a "cold peace" between the 
,__ A 

The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Professor Brendan O'Leary spoke on the peace talks regarding Northern Ireland. 
British and Irish with Britain's direct rule of Northern Ireland combined with a "green guid­ance" from Ireland. The breakup could spell disaster for the British, who could face similar situations in Scotland and Wales, O'Leary said. 
---------------------------.
-~---------­

page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thurday, March 9, 1995 

''I USE 1-800-COLLECT BECAUSE ... 
Calvert doesn't hold back when it comes to express­ing the benefits of using 
Just fill in

1-800-COLLECT. 
the bubble

Now it's your turn. 
above with the most important reason to always dial 1-800-COLLECT when calling collect. If your quote is chosen, you'll be the lucky Grand prize winner of a 3-day, 2-night trip for two to attend the Billboard Music Awards (broadcast by FOX). Twenty first-place winners will receive a 1-800-COLLECT "Cool Collection" of prizes that includes a 1-800-COLLECT watch, boxer shorts and much more! 
1-800-COLLECT ® 
Save The People You Call Up To 44%. 
To enter, complete the bubble above and the information below. Mail the entire page, to be received by 5/1/95, to: 
"1-800-COLLECT" P.O. Box 4838 Blair, Nebraska 68009 
(Please print) 

Name___________________________ 
Address-----------------------­City _____ State__Zip____ 
Phone#( )---------------­
Open to U.S. residents 18 or older. Void where prohibited. Entries must be received by 5/1/95. Limit one entry per enve­lope. Grand Prize-of trip for 2 includes airfare, hotel and night on the.town, with dinner and nightspot entertainment. For contest rules, by which entrants are bound, send a self-addressed, stamped envelope to: 1·800-COLLECT, P.O. Box 4880, Blair, NE, 68009. WA residents need not affix postage to return envelope. 
1995 BILLBOARD MUSIC AWARDS ON FOX 
For long-distance calls. savings based on a 3-minute AT&T operator-dialed Interstate call. 
Thursday, March 9, 1995 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Gospel encourages humility 
By NORA MEANY 
Nc:ws Writer 
People can lind a pattern of discipleship in Jesus' washing of the feet, which they can fol­low in their lives, according to Sister Monica Masso. 
In her noontime lecture yes­terday in the Saint Mary's Stapleton Lounge, Masso fo­cused on Chapter 13 of the Gospel of John. In this pas­sage, Jesus knelt down and washed the feet of his Apostles, an act more common to the servants of that time. This act, said Masso, showed how faith­ful and devoted Jesus was to his friends. 
Her lecture, the first of four in the Endowed Lenten Series of 1995, was sponsored by the Center for Spirituality at Saint Mary's. These lectures all focus on John's Gospel and honor the Sisters of the Holy Cross. 
"(Jesus) has passed over the 


We would like to wish Brandei Sigafoose a Happy 20th Birthday!!! 
line that separates servants from masters," she said. By washing their feet, Jesus illus­trated what it is like to be mer­ciful and forgiving. It was a loving act of role-reversal, according to Masso. 
"He, the Lord and master, takes up the lowly task of washing feet," she said. 
Biblically, foot-washing was held in very high regards. Not only was it a sign of cleanliness and hospitality, but it also sym­bolized religious purity. Many 
trance where parishioners would wash before entering to worship. As the familiar saying goes, "Cleanliness is next to Godliness." 
Masso graduated with a dou­ble major in math and philoso­phy from University of California, Berkeley. She is now taking graduate courses at the University of Notre Dame, majoring in Bible Study. 
Masso's lecture was dedicat­ed to Sister Scholastica Kennard, a former Saint Mary's teacher from 1951-1957. 
"Her example continues to inspire me in the classroom and in life," Masso said of Scholastica. 

• STUDENT SENATE 
Student's resolution voted down by Senate 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE 
Assistant News Editor 
The Student Senate opposed a "free discourse" resolution that was submitted last night by graduate student Mike Sheliga. 
Sheliga said that The Ob­server would not print an ad which he submitted in response to the The Observer's Jan. 27 Inside Column, which was writ­ten by News Editor Dave Tyler. 
He said that The Observer "wanted to protect someone on their staff, or they didn't agree with it." 
"I don't think this is what a college newspaper is all about, especially one that is supported by student funds," Sheliga said. 
His resolution asked that the The Observer "accept varying political opinions and ads from the University community." 
In addition, the resolution stated that "the standards set 
for the acceptance of such viewpoints should be as open as possible, and should not reflect the editor(s)'s personnel (sic) opinions." 
According to John Lucas, in­coming editor-in-chief of The Observer, the ad was not run because it did not promote "free discourse," but instead bordered on personal attack. 
Lucas said that The Observer runs ads at the discretion of its General Board. If there is a problem with the ad, the Board generally tries to work out a compromise with the adver­tiser. 
When Sheliga was asked to take Tyler's name out of the ad, he decided not to run the ad. The Observer would have run the ad if the name was re­moved from it, Lucas said. 
"We would have made this decision regardless of whether the person was a staff member or another member of the com­munity," he said. 
CAMPUS MINISTRY ••• 
•.• CONSIDERATIONS 
GOD'S RAINBOW 

"The falling rain dissolves into mist, and the thunder begins to die. As the sporadic lightningfades, an arch ofcolors pours.from the sky." 
Vinny Ferrari, a young man from Rochester, New York, came to Notre Dame this past weekend. He had endured some mighty storms in the space of a few months. Gloom and grey descended upon him when his doctor discovered the source of his severe migraines and falling grades: an inoperable brain tumor. When I received a phone call from his parish priest, he asked me if Fr. Malloy and Coach Holtz might fax Vinny some words of encouragement-anything sent by mail might not reach him in time. 
I lis wish had been to attend the University of Notre Dame. This hope was dashed once the x-rays were held up to the light and the tumor discovered. Vinny went straight to Intensive Care, and almost did not leave there. With radiation treatments, however, Vinny's condition stabilized. A window of opportunity opened up, and his scoutmaster, family, and friends secretly arranged a trip to Notre Dame for him. When they finally told him last week that he was going to see Notre Dame, they had a hard time calming him down. 
Vinny came with his mother, father, and sister, and nine other friends. His first glimpse of the University came from the air, from a golden dome as brilliant in the sun as any rainbow. His second glimpse was in rhe bright faces of twenty students, earring porn poms and gifts, who came to the airport to receive him. Vinny's scoutmaster, overwhelmed hy the sight, said to me, "Is this what Notre Dame is all about?" 
Back at the Morris Inn, Vinny gave me a ribbon for my lapel with the colors of the rainbow. A symbol, he said, of the hope inspired by the rrip. How appropriate, the rainbow being the sign of God's promise that he will guide us through any storm. Before me sat a group of people who had already weathered a mighty storm. I could see it in their faces. 
[ observed the faces of these visitors all weekend, expressions as varied as rhe the rainbow with its colors both dark and bright. Try as they might to hide it, their faces betrayed the grief, despair, and dismay in their 1hearts, but gave way to excitement and unbelief when they met Notre \Dame football and basketball players, had lunch with Fr. Malloy, and !actually sat in Coach Holtz's office. I watched peace and calm come lover them as they sat in the Basilica, and beheld faces streaked with 
tears, softly illumined by the glow of candles' light, as they knelt in the quiet of the Grotto at night. 
For Vinny and his dear ones, a rainbow burst upon them-the powerful light and warmth of human love. Students at the airport, a complimentary room at the Morris Inn, visits, jerseys, and signed pictures from athletes, student tour guides, Bengal Bout tickets sacrificed by students, TV and newspaper interviews, friendly strangers on campus stopping to talk, a cap and book signed by Coach Holtz, along with a private pep talk usually reserved for players. And on Sunday, Vinny entered Notre Dame stadium for the first time, and found the rainbow's gold. Dark grey skies and a fine mist shrouded the stadium in an eery, almost magical aura as Vinny slowly walked across the field. He was handed a jar of gold dust, given him by a student trainer, the kind used to paint the football helmets. Vinny could not contain his excitement. Before going to the airport, we prayed, and tears of gratitude fell softly as each person was handed a little card entitled "God's Rainbow." It's closing lines read: "When you feel battered by life's storms, and you are filled with doubt and dismay, just remember God's rainbow is coming. For its blessing you have only to pray." Later, as his plane disappeared into the clouds, I felt immense gratitude to God and to the people at Notre Dame. I thought of the words one student shared with me: "To think that a few days here is a young man's greatest wish, and I am here for four years." Vinny shared with us all a little light from God's rainbow, and helped us see clearly so much that we take for granted in life. I leave you with the simple words of gratitude that he had signed 
for me on the back of the rainbow card:  "Thank you very much. Love,  
Vincent M. Ferrari. 3-6-95."  
Fr. Pat Neary, C S. C  

SECOND SUNDAY OF LENT 
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica 
Sat. Mar. 11  5:00 p.m.  Rev. Robert Moss, C.S.C.  
Sun. Mar. 12 10:00 a.m.  Rev. Robert Moss, C.S.C.  
11:45 a.m.  Rev. Thomas Gaughan, C.S.C.  


~--------------------------------------~~~~~====~======================~ 
-----------~----------------------------------------, 
VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Thursday, March 9, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Bwiness Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 

News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advenising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager ................. .Jacqueline Moset Accent Editor ...•..................... Krista Nannery Sysrems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Elizabeth Regan Controller ..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The nc:ws is repotted as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor /Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer. Viewpoint.1®nctedu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 


• SOCIETY WHIRL 

Your Friends not friends of mine 
As most of my readers know, I try to keep this column on lofty subjects. I stay above the fray. Squalid topics, like the OJ trial or Republican politics, find no home here. But there has been so much pop culture stuff demanding com­mentary that I have decided to break with my usual densely-reasoned and 
Josh Ozersky 

erudite defenses of Catholic orthodoxy, and address them in order. 
1. Friends. My attention has been directed to this show, and I have to say I don't like it one bit. I have a lot of reservations about this kind of Gen-X dreck, but foremost among them is a question that I shouldn't even have to ask: what's with all these hot chicks? If it weren't distracting enough having all this eye candy on Melrose Place and Models, Inc., now they have to invade prime-time comedies? I think I speak for most 18-to-35 males when I say that supermodels and centerfold types are about as funny to me as cancer. Make no mistake: I would hate the show any­way, with its formulaic I Love Lucy plots and mechanically inserted TV-trivia ref­erences. (It's good to know that obese, elderly TV producers now know about aspect of my life, so they can ruin it too. But I don't blame Quentin! They were bound to catch on sooner or later.) But how much worse that they inflict all these mind-boggling models to titillate my infantile desires and torment my babe-addled mind. I'm only a man, dammit! Don't be screwing around with my sitcoms. I want weird, unattractive people I can feel superior to! 

Where's Urkel when I need him? 
2. 
Bruce Springsteen's Greatest Hits. Youngsters today are fooled into think­ing that the mumbling, muscle-bound goof whose moans and groans are col­lected on this new album has something to do with Bruce Springsteen. Listen, I went to Atlantic City High School in the early 80s, and the advent of Bruce as a buff pop-star was as unexpected and unwelcome to us as it is natural to you. The skinny, skeevy, romantic prodigy of Greetings From Asbury Park, NJ and The Wild, The Innocent, and The E­Street Shuffle was as real to me as myself-if not more so. He was a fixed point in my moral universe, an out­landishly talented, preposterously vul­nerable, heroically honest elevation of my simple male adolescent nature -a nature which, as I have hinted in the past, I still think my best self. Born to Run elevated that persona into olympic proportions, and Bruce's next (and last) album, Darkness on the Edge of Town, took the same persona through a Garden State Gethsemane, emerging as a grimmer, wiser, still hopelessly romantic Bruce. After that he was spent. The song "The River" was the last Bruce moment. The whole decade chronicled on the recent "Greatest Hits" album is the work of a golem, a ghost, an automaton, a John Cafferty impersonator, a body-snatcher. I weep at the loss. And how typical that Courteney Cox, the most frighteningly beautiful of all the starlets on Friends, should have begun her career at the moment -the Dancing in the Dark video -when Bruce first sold his soul. 

3. 
There's only one Bob. Luckily, the great triumvirate of rock music still endures. Jerry Garcia is on tour, Neil Young just produced another fine album, and Bob Dylan has just coughed up yet another deathless, inimitable lyric. Sometimes I lay awake in bed and think to myself, over and over, "there's only one Bob." Bruce was hailed, like so-many others, as "the New Dylan" in 1973, almost eighteen years ago. Today 


he is a walking corpse, and there is Bob, still wearing sunglasses and rasping out those ironic, wise, sagacious lyrics. They wrote Bob off in the mid sixties, when he had already produced half a dozen albums, each one more brilliant than the last, and each with more mem­orable songs than anybody else's Greatest Hits. He came back with two or three more, and disappeared again. And then produced, in Blood on the Tracks (1974) and Desire (1975) arguably his two best albums. And then Infidels in 1983, and "Blind Willie McTell" a few years later, a dance on Bruce's grave. And now "Dignity," a multi-verse Dylan epic in the classic style, just when everyone thought that Bob had croaked his last couplet. 
With all respect to Charlie Rice and the American bishopric, these sort of pop culture issues, and not any the­
'8 ut how much worse that 
they inflict all these mind­boggling models to titillate my infantile desires and torment my babe-addled mind. I'm only a man, dammit! Don't be screw­ing around with my sitcoms. I want weird, unattractive people I can feel superior to!' 
ological abstractions, are the guiding stars of my life. Portis, Nabokov, Frank Sinatra, Bob, Neil Young, the early Bruce, Reservoir Dogs, Olivier in Richard III, DeNiro in The King of Comedy, Brando in anything-that's what keeps me going from day to day. 
I know that's nothing to boast about, but what can I tell you? 
Josh Ozersky is a graduate student in history. His e-mail address is joshua.a. ozersky.l@nd. edu 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• DOONESBURY 
POOR. O.J.-H~HA5N'T8E£N

I CAN'TBtiJMI'M IN 
QJ{,NO,NOT
A 1?13PA!<TMENT STORE, /J.P./ 
fJ:TAU..' GeT
'3PRJN3! HOW'5 H& !ilJPPOf:jf!;[J 7H&JUIJ6&

I CAN /JK&A7He JJ6AIN! 
HIM 5CM& N&IAI
TOtcrJI<H~ EJe5TIN COUI<T r IAJOUI,I?~­
Gto~WHI~ 
I_....--_ APPROver Y()(J'R£AT fTI 
I " 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''What is the liberty of 
the press? Who can 
give it any definition which 
would not leave the utmost lat­
itude for evasion? ... I hold it to 
be impracticable." 
-Alexander Hamilton 
• 

:ACC~NT 
Thursday, March 9, 1995 page 9 
• MUSIC CRITIC 
Melting Hopefuls beam in from outer space 
CMJ College Cuts Top20 
This Last Artist/Title
Week Week 

1  1  Stone Roses  
"Love Spreads"  
2  3  Throwing Muses  
"Bright Yellow Gun"  
3  PJ Harvey  
"Down By The Water''  
4  2  Bush  
"Everything Zen"  
5  5  Bettie Serveert  
"Ray, Ray, Ray"  
6  8  Wolfgang Press  
"Going South"  
7  Quicksand  
"Delusional"  
8  9  Ass Ponys  
"Little Bastard"  
9  4  Belly  
"Now They'll Sleep"  
10  1 1  Simple Minds  
"She's A River''  
11  Fossil  
"Moon"  
12  R  Live  
"Lightning Crashes"  
13  20  Rage Against The  
Machine  
"Year of the Boomerang"  
14  14  Pearl Jam  
"Better Man"  
15  7  Dink  
"Green Mind"  
16  15  R.E.M.  
"Bang and Blame"  
17  13  Siouxsie & the Banshees  
"0 Baby"  
18  6  Portishead  
"Sour Times"  
19  18  Oasis  
"Live Forever''  
20  12  Green Day  
"When I Come Around"  

Source College Music Journal 

By ROB ADAMS 
Music Critic 
(out of five)
***~ 

Melting Hopefuls-Space Flyer 
I
n today's rock world, a new band's directory of influences can be as feared as it is revered, serving as either a testament to a lack of originality or as a 
wondrous combination of great music past and present. Throughout their short half-decade history, Belleville, New Jersey's Melting Hopefuls' comparisons have run the gauntlet from Throwing Muses to Smashing Pumpkins to The Go-Go's. 
The three-women, two-men outfit is led by singer/songwriter Renee LuBoe, whose gorgeous whine ranges from biting and cynical to hopeful and timid. In the meantime, Melting Hopefuls' music takes its cue from those vocals and travels north, south, east and west of Power-Pop City. 
Drummer Ray Ketchem and guitarist Max Siebel started the band and auditioned 43 different singers b1~fore they found LuBoe, who has proven to be well­worth the wait. Despite her sometimes waif-like voice, this woman is no fairy. During a show in Hoboken, New Jersey, LuBoe became enraged with a particular member of the audience who would not stop taunting her. "It was either be bothered by him or hit him," LuBoe says, "so I hit him." 
Melting Hopefuls debut, Space Flyer, expresses a wide array of emotions and music with the ease of established veterans. Their sweet and tangy music eaptures a raw and edgy feel even though Ketchem's production is polished and nearly flawless. 
The initial feedback with which the album begins moves from soft and serene right into the rough feel of "Gondola." Against this backdrop, LuBoe's beautiful 
Photo courtesy of Kevin Monko/ BlgPop Records 
harmonies prove to be a pleasant surprise. Although she sounds like she is chewing on caramel toffee during the entire time she is singing, she pulls it off with child­like grace. 
"Pulling an Allnighter on Myself' begins, "I went up to his apartment/He never showed up at the park!fhere he was/Alone in the dark/Sitting on his hardwood floor/With his pants down to his knees..." The lyrics tell the story of a girl who gets stood-up because her date would rather stay at home and express his love for himself. Melting Hopefuls' most celebrated song for obvious reasons, "Pulling an Allnighter on Myself' uti­lizes soaring guitar licks, thick, distorted bass and LuBoe's heartbroken, conversational vocals. As the song comes to a close, LuBoe's vocal moans meander breathlessly through the background. 
An acoustic guitar is hushed by battling feedback as the song "Mouth" begins. Eventually, the quick-paced tempo of the song takes over. The ever-changing beat of the song proves to be very effective as it magnifies the grief of a worried mate. When LuBoe yelps "I'm starting to sound like my mother," it's hard to decide whether to feel sorry for her or welcome her to woman­hood. 
"Hanging" features only LuBoe and an acoustic gui­tar resulting in a superb ballad. It expresses a slight yet uncanny resemblance to Lenny Kravitz's "Sister." Imagining late Replacements rock combined with Andrea's Darling Buds vocals as well as the vocal melodies of Buffalo Tom is the sanest way to describe the insane "Coming," a song about someone facing a problem head on and going forward with life. 
Sometimes it is impossible to classify a band without listing influences or similarities, and it seems as if Melting Hopefuls are one of those bands. It is definitely not a testament to their unoriginality, however, as their sound is as fresh and squeaky clean as a brand new automobile. 
Rob Adam's Music Reviews appear every Thursday . 

• CYBERSURF 
Welcome Home: The Notre Dame Personal Home Pages 
By AARON 
(always a party) and a sample of the to see existing home pages, you are pieces to be used as clickable "execu­VILLARUZ touching Mariah Carey ballad probably smart enough to create your tion spots" on the page (page viewers Accrnt Writer "Dreamlover." own. There is an extensive Help File need only click on the text to execute a 
Mark Kane's page features a link to located in the Personal Hompages task). It is this feature which gives 
N
ext time the La Jolla Surfing Home Pages (access Browser on the Notre Dame Web which "Hyper Text" its name. 
y 0 u to surf conditions and pictures of the describes in detail everything you need After all this is set up, the files must 
launch biggest kahunas you ever did see) and a to know to get started. be stored on the user's AFS space. All of Netscape, make picture browser of his family and The home page is basically a set of us here at the University of Notre Dame your way over to friends. code in a language that can be recog­have our own little space on the Andrew the Notre Dame Cruise over to Andrew Caspersen's nized by programs such as Netscape. File Server, and it is here that we can Home Page and check out all those page and you can get to the Notre Dame This language, known as HTML (Hyper place our files, pictures, text and tidbits Personal Home Pages. See all those Football Web, the legendary Yahoo Text Markup Language), is fairly simple for all the world to see. names? These are the ranks of the cut­Server. and his favorite Beer Page, ded­to learn, and provides instructions for Then, after informing the Powers ting edge elite who have carved out icated to the praise and recognition of the interface programs (i.e. Netscape, That Be that you have put this all to­their own little spot on the World Wide the yummiest beverage around. Mosaic) which display text, size and gether (through an executable found on Web. Dozens have jumped on the band­The Notre Dame Band has it's own stylize the text, load in pictures, link to the Personal Home Pages page) and wagon, and mayb1~ your time is now. home page, which features sounds and other documents, and do almost any­after changing some access privileges 
Your own personal home pages can pictures of the illustrious Band of the thing else you would want your home on your space, you are ready to go. contain almost anything and nearly Fighting Irish, a written history of the page to do. Once you get the hang of it, There it is. Give it a try. It's fun to tell everything. Pictures, sounds, text, links band, and links to the home pages of HTML is a cake walk, and with a little your friends that you have scanned in to other pages, files that people can the Notre Dame Band Sections. It seems time invested in some coding, you can embarrassing pictures of them and that download, even animated movies of the Saxists and the Trumpeters are have a decent page up and running in anyone in the world can see them. yourself dancing a jig. especially enthusiastic about this whole no time. Besides, potential employers love to 
A sampler: Joern Meissner includes Internet thing, as they each maintain The Page Making Process, in essence, hear, "Why, if you have Internet access, pictures of his hometown, his favorite their own separate sites on the Web. is three fold. First. the pictures, sounds, I could refer you to my on-line resume sights in Vancouver, and pictures of his Even the Knights of Columbus have and other knick-knacks you want fea­located on my World Wide Web Site at homemade cakes (free advertising!). their own home page. tured in your page are recorded, the following address ..." Being impres­Kevin Chee put up an enormous picture One may ask, "How do, I, the common scanned, or whatever it takes for it to sive has never been easier. of a beach in Hawaii, a link to the user, produce and maintain my own be in a computer-usable form. Next, the Aaron Villaruz is a computer geek Computer Science and Engineering home page?" The answer is simple. If text for the page is entered and convert­wanna-be and maintains his own Home 
page at http://www.nd.edu/-avillaru. 
Functional Programming Home Page you are smart enough to use Netscape ed to HTML format. HTML allows text 
~----­
page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, March 9, 1995 
•Nfl

•NFL 
NFL may deny Rams' Buccaneers lure Harper 
Associated Press player on the Bucs. Emmitt Smith and Troy Aikman 
"A few people said 'Why are in the Cowboys' offense. In four 
move to St. Louis 

By R.B. FALLSTROM Associated Press 
Seven years ago, NFL own­ers quickly gave their approval to Bill Bidwill when he wanted to move the Cardinals to Phoenix. 
Getting the OK for the Rams to move from Los Angeles to St. Louis at next week's NFL owners meetings will be more difficult. 
In addition to the idea of abandoning the nation's No. 2 TV market for the 18th, the league also has to deal with concerns from Los Angeles' remaining team. 
Raiders owner AI Davis has complained that the L.A. Coliseum is not a suitable venue, and the NFL is so de­termined not to leave Southern California altogether it has discussed building a new stadium. 
"It's one issue if there are two teams in the Los Angeles area," league spokesman Joe Browne said Wednesday. "It's a different issue if there's only one team. Frankly, zero teams in Los Angeles would probably have to be unaccept­able." 
Browne said the Cardinals' move to Phoenix, made seven years ago during meetings also held in Phoenix, was a different scenario because the TV markets are similar. Phoenix is the No. 20 televi­sion market. 
The Fox television network, which has three years left on its four-year deal with the NFL, objected to the move last month and may ask the league for a rebate. 
"It did not get that specif­ic," Browne said. "You could read between the lines." 
Rams president John Shaw declined comment, but spokesman Rick Smith said the team wasn't surprised by anything Browne had to say. 
"I think our people have felt along we'd get the vote," Smith said. "We're prepared for any eventuality." 
The Rams, who made their plans official in January, have been in Southern California for 49 years. Last month, when Rams owner Georgia Frontiere updated owners on the move, some teams repre­senting the league's old guard, including Pittsburgh Steelers president Dan Rooney, were dubious. 
A proposed change in voting bylaws could ease the process, however. The San Francisco 49ers want to reduce the requirement for passage on major issues from three-fourths of the 30 own­ers, or 23, to 70 percent, or 21 votes. 
The 49ers' proposal is unre­lated to the Rams' situation but is being raised simply because it's so easy for a small group of owners to block any measure. 
Browne said the voting re­quirement could be changed before a vote is taken on the Rams' move and the sale of the Tampa Bay Bucs to Malcolm Glazer, the other major issue to be discussed at the meetings starting Monday. 

TAMPA, Fla. 
The Tampa Bay Buccaneers signed wide receiver Alvin Harper on Wednesday, snag­ging the biggest free agent catch so far this year with a four-year deal worth a report­ed $2.5 million a season. 
Harper, who repeatedly has said he wanted to play near his hometown of Frostproof, also considered offers from the Arizona Cardinals, Washington Redskins and New York Jets. 
The deal includes a signing bonus of at least $3 million and makes Harper the highest-paid you going to Tampa Bay?"' Harper said at news conference announcing the deal. "That's fine. I can bring something to this team. Then when we start winning, it will special." 
Money was apparently not the only issue in the deal. In addition to Harper's desire to play close to his hometown, the Bucs have running backs coach Kippy Brown, who recruited him to the University of Tennessee. 
Harper, who earned $868,000 last year, played in the shadows of Michael Irvin, seasons in Dallas, he caught 124 passes for 2,486 yards and 18 touchdowns. 
"Hopefully, I can be the focal point," Harper said. "They have a lot of good young re­ceivers. I think we are going to have a great group and get a lot done." 
Despite the prospect of leav­ing the two-time Super Bowl champion Cowboys to join a franchise that has lost 10 or more games for 12 straight seasons, Harper said in a visit Feb. 21 that he liked the idea of playing for the Bucs. 
• BOXING 

Bowe planning Tyson fight 
By ED SCHUYLER JR. 
Associated Press 

LAS VEGAS 
Riddick Howe says he isn't looking past Herbie Hide, but there's no question he is look­ing forward to seeing Mike Tyson. 
And, to fighting him. 

Howe plans to visit Tyson at the Indiana Youth Center at Plainfield, Ind., Monday. Tyson is scheduled to be released from the prison, where he is serving a sentence for rape, on March 25. 
Accompanying Howe will be Rock Newman, his manager. 
"I think Mike should be made aware of what is available for him," Newman said Wednesday. "The dilemma Tyson faces is that he can make $55 million or $60 million com­ing right out of the box and fighting Howe. Or, he can take some lights against tomato cans and risk looking less than awe­~ome and having the bloom come off." 
Howe, however, feels Tyson should have a tuneup or two, since in June it will be four years since Tyson last fought. Howe also thought Tyson should take a couple of months and just relax. 
"Certain fights are meant to be," Newman said. "A Howe­Tyson fight is going to happen." 
"I'm just taking it all in stride," said the 27-year-old Howe, a former undisputed heavyweight champion. "Right now, the important fight for me is Herbie Hide." 
Howe is a big favorite to win the WBO title from the un­beaten Hide, of Britain, Saturday night at the MGM Grand Garden and go on to a June fight against Jorge Luis Gonzalez, a Cuban fighting out of Las Vegas. 
Another future opponent for Howe could be Evander Holyfield, from whom Howe won the undisputed title. Holyfield won the rematch. 
Then, of course, there's Tyson. 
Newman said he has talked with a group of pay-per-view exhibitors who have guaran­teed 2 million homes for a Howe-Tyson light, with $35 of each sale going to the promo­tion. The pay-per-view would be priced at from $69 to $79, according to Newman. 
He also said the fight might be shown on closed-circuit TV, with a delayed pay-per-view telecast at $29. 
The Obsetver accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 

$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS$$ Are you going to read those things again? I think not. 2323-2342 Pandora's Bks NO Ave & Howard 
ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAK­FAST, 35 MIN TO N.D. SPECIAL "OBSERVER" RATE $50/$60, FULL BREAKFAST. THE HOME­SPUN COUNTRY INN, NAPPA­NEE, 219-n3-2034. 
KEYBOARD CREATIONS WORD PROCESSING SERVICES/ 7 DAYS A WEEK/CALL 277-8518 
ILOST&FOUNDI 
Somebody accidentally picked 
up the wrong black sportcoat at 
the Grace/Fianner SYR last Fri. 
My 10 is in the inside pocket 
please return to Calvin Nelson 
214 Grace 4-1598 
Found: A gold Bulova quartz watch in the 06 parking lot. Call Nicky at x2851 
Lost: A blue Tl-81 calculator in the Nieuwland computer lab on Sunday around 3pm. Please call Josh X3214 
FOUND -Baseball cap @ the 
Grotto on Fri. 3/3. Can be claimed 
at 227 Cushing. 
FOUND: A LARGE SET OF KEYS WITH A CANADA KEYCHAIN AND A WALT DISNEY WORLD KEY CHAIN WITH THE NAME JIM AT STEPAN AFTER THE TRACY CHAPMAN SHOW. THE KEYS ARE NOW AT THE LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK FOUND: man's watch with a black leather band and the words "Philadelphia Varoic." To identify, call Jen @ 4962 
LOST: gold hoop earring on Tuesday( Somewhere between 101 DBT and 3rd floor Nieuwland)---{;all Kelley x3427 
LOST: A LONG BLACK WOMAN'S PERRY ELLIS COAT 
AT SR. BAR ON FRI. FEB. 10 (FISHER-WALSH DANCE) 
PLEASE CALL CINDY AT 
273-5399 WITH ANY INFO.­
REWARDffffl 
FOUND: WOMAN'S RING IN 
DEBARTOLO. CALL 4-2954 TO 
IDENTIFY. 
WANTED 
Female Roommate -Spring Smster 
96. House 7 min walk from DeBartolo. Call Jeannine @ 289­9420 
Job Opening 
Debate Coach 
Experience Necessary 
Send Resume 302 La Fortune 
By March 10 
Job Opening 
Debate Coach 
Experience Necessary 
Send Resume 
302 La Fortune 
by March 10 
Spring Break/Summer Jobs Learn while you eaml $325/week Citizen's Action Coalition is hiring for our entry level campaign posi­tions. FuiVPart time, Travel, excel­lent office atmosphere. Hours 2-10, M-F. call for appt. 232-7905 
SUMMER JOBS 
ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS 
PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS 
NEAR LAKE PLACID 
CALL 1-800-786-8373 
WANTED: 1985-88 CHEVY BLAZ­ER OR GMC JIMMY. GOOD CON­DITION. 272-9402. 
Get paid to see movies! Part time job opportunity to work with a major Hollywood studiol Visit Career & Placement Services at Hesburgh Library for more info. Application deadline is April 15. 
NEED RIDE TO PENNSTATE OR NEAR FOR SPRING BREAK. GAS TOLLS (JIM X2303) 
FREELANCE GRAPHIC ARTIST, work at home -Cartoon background helpful-Call219-259-8822. 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­Earn up to $2,000+/month working on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­panies. World travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.). Seasonal and full-time employment available. No experience neces­sary. For more information cal 1­206-634-0468 ext. C55844 
FOR RENT 
BEAUTIFUL 4-bedroom house for 
rent. Prefer female roommates. 
$225 + util. Call Natalie 291-5466. 
HOMES FOR RENT 
NEAR CAMPUS 
232-2595 
MOVE OCI180/mo w/3 fem 
@ Turtle Creek, 
summer/95-96 273-6437 

FOR SALE 
Plane ticket to Denver March 9-19 4pm Midway CHEAP! call Anne 284-5036 
OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered at $85,900. First floor location. Finished basement with full lavato­ry. Two bedrooms and two baths on ground level. Lease back to owner through May, 1995. Call (616)946-0700. 
Clarion Car Stereo-AM/FM/Cass Detachable Face; High Power; CD Changer Ready; Top of the Line: 1 yr old. $200. Call1-8817. 
Brother wordprocessor for sale. Separate monitor and 3.5" floppy disk drive included. Best offer. Call Jason at x 1852 
LABRADOR PUPS-8 WKS. 
AKC-OFA, MALES. 289-8227. 
PERSONAL 
000 The Copy Shop 000 
LaFortune Student Center WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE, & WEEKENDS FOR YOUR CONVENIENCE!II 
Phone 631-COPY 

ABC'S & LULLABIES-Hugs, kiss­es and endless love await a white newborn. Loving couple financially secure will provide a happy family life, finest education and a beautiful home filled with warmth and securi­ty. Mad/legal expenses paid. Call Debbie & Vic at 1-800-842-6648. 
Attention: Bi-polar attack pending! Thief of Knott 4A, please return Katie's favorite jeans so the rest of us can escape the river of tears. 
DOYOU SMOKE CAMEL CIGARETTES? IF SO, PLEASE CALL X2954 
CONGRATULATIONS!!Iff!!!! 
Larry, we've been waiting two and a half years for this and now it has happened. Congratulations from us all. 
CONGRATULATIONS!!!!!!!! 
Theresa and Bevin need a ride to the Boston area for break. Will pay for gas and snacks. Call X2533 if you can help us. P.S. We are indeed lusty. 
To Amos the SMC Basketball Player, 
Thanks for every1hing. I can't believe we used an entire can of whipped cream. Have a safe break, 
Your jerky love imp 
F M STEREO COLLEGE RADIO FOR THE NOTRE DAME COMMU­NITY? PLEASE FILL OUT THE WVFI STUDENT SURVEY THAT IS IN YOUR MAILBOX AND RETURN TO THE DROPOFF SITES LOCAT­ED AROUND YOUR MAIL AREAS OR TAKE TO THE EITHER THE STUDENT GOVERNMENT OFFICE OR TO THE WVFI STU­
010. BOTH ON THE SECOND FLOOR OF LAFORTUNE. NOW IS THE ONLY TIME!II 
CA-Happy 18th birthday to the 
original dancing queen! You are 
my inspiration. love, Madonna 
ps. thanks for the dress Bob and Jamie are looking for two lusty babes to go to Boston and provide money for gas and snacks. If you're Cookie Monster with a friend named Bevin please call. X0965. 
Ode to Don K ... 
To all the girls Don's loved before who have walked through his base­ment door, slept (etc,) on his wateribed, on satin pillows have rested their head ... To all the girls Don's loved before 
HEY SENIORS: 
I need 2 extra tickets for graduation. If you need only 2, would you con­sider ordering 4 and giving me the other pair? NO Women: will make it worth your while. NO Men: will be very appreciative. Steve 634-1644. Thanks. 
###################### 
If you are staying in South Bend for Spring Break, and you like to do good work with your life, the Center for the Homeless is looking for volunteers. If you are interested, call Felicia Leon at 282-8700. 
###################### 
I NEED GRAD TIX PLEASE! My grandma and my uncles and my aunt and my mom and my dad and my sister and my brother would like to see me graduate. If you can help me, call Paul X4-3311. 
Kyle-Good luck living on a full can of 
Tuna and one pair o' boxers for 
spring break! 
I'll think of you and the troop 
while surfing away ... 
Hope you become one with the 
wilderness. 

.-----------------~---~--~----------------~-..-.'.-.'.-.~~ ---~-------­
Thursday, March 9, 1995 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 11 

PREJUDICE REDUCTION ORKSHOP 


lfyou are interested in learning how to confront oppression, then sign up now! 
The Multicultural Executive Council is offering students, staff, and professors the opportunity to participate in this diversity sensitivity worl{shop . 
. ....... .... . fe(f EDrOllmeilt-Calllmmediately 
SATURDAY, MARCH 25 
8:00 A.M. -3:00 P.M. EARTH SCIENCE BUILDING 
...
ROOM 101 

BREAKFAST AND LUNCH WILL BE PROVIDED 
THIS WORKSHOP IS BEING PRESENTED BY THE NOTRE DAME AFFILIATE OF THE NATIONAL COALITION BUILDING INSTITUTE 
.... 

Contact: Micl(ey Franco • 631-4355 Adele Lanan • 631-7308 
"---------~------~ 
page 12 
• BASEBALl 
Baseball promoting Devil worship in Tampa Bay 
By PAT LEISNER 
Associated Ptess 
TAMPA, Fla. 

Overjoyed at the prospect of landing a major league base­ball team, fans in Tampa Bay are outraged at the proposed nickname -the Devil Rays. 
"Devil? It just puts in your mind that it's no fun," Tampa resident Dan Sampson said Wednesday. "It sounds satanic or something." 
On the eve of an owners' meeting likely to award one of two expansion franchises to the area, fan!f were in a fury about naming the club for a sinister looking fish with a horned-shaped mouth. 
"Team name Rayses a ruckus," said the headline in The Tampa Tribune. 
A sign pictured in the St. Petersburg Times chided own­ership leader Vince Naimoli for his apparent choice. "Devil Rays? Terrible Name. Come On Vince. We Can Do Better," read a sign in front of a local business. 
In a call-in poll by Tampa 
television station WTVT, 98 
percent sounded a resounding 
no to the proposed name. The 
count was 1,300 against and 
only 26 for by noon on 
Wednesday. 
There have been no such 
complaints about the likely 
nickname of the team expected to be awarded to Phoenix Suns owner Jerry Colangelo. They would be the Arizona Diamondbacks, named for a desert rattlesnake. 
"I think it will help to have a" Southwestern flair," said Scott Blanford, the director of mer­chandising for the Suns. "That's why the All-Star Game logo was so popular, it had that Southwestern flair. People will identify with it. That's the Arizona baseball team because it looks Southwestern." 
•
~.,. 
~~ 
,_"~­..._~ 
~ 
~~ .,.~ .,."~­
.,._,. 
Jfe~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ _ ~~~ 
-~~---~~~~· 

SMC class of'96 
From: 
Killarney, London, and Long Beach 
The whole family joins togther to extend Congratulations and Best Wishes on your 
21st Birthday 
March 9, 1995 with special love from Mom, Dad, Charles, Auntie Peggy and Maggi
.. 

Thursday, March 9, 1995 
wouldn't be able to hear him over the noise, anyway."We came right back down and ran a play, got the ball to Ed O'Bannonand he got fouled," Harrick said. ''The next three out of four possessions our defense got them to turn it over. Our players really dug down and I was glad to see that I didn't have to call time out and settle them down. 
"I wanted them to make the adjustments and not the coach. They've got to do it them­selves. That's the way it's going to be down the stretch." 
LEGAL ASSISTANTS NEEDED for proposing revisions to DuLAc. 
Open to all persons interested in assisting the Legal Department Committee in proposing changes to Du LAc. 
If interested, call 
Dave Horan at 1-6283. 
r--------------------------------------,
I I 

I HOW TO HANG ON TO YOUR DOUGH. 
I : (WITHOUT CRAMPING YOUR STYLE) 
I I 

b Separate "needs" from "wants." Hint A bed is a need. A Mr. Microphone is a want. 
b Split the bill but only pay your share. Why put in for someone else's swordfish if all you got was soup? 
b Set aside money for emergencies. Unless you'd rather call your parents for it instead. 
b Keep your eye on your wallet. Have a Citibank Classic card in case you lose it. The Lost Wallet5 Service can get you
M 

emergency cash7 a new card, usually within 24 hours, and help replacing vital documents. 

*Based on available cash line. 

© 1995 Citibank (South Dakota). NA 
Thursday, March 9, 1995 The Observer· SPORTS page 13 
game while ripping down 7.9 

1995 MCC BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIPrebounds. Senior forward and team leader Letitia Bowen com­
Quarterfinals Semifinals Championship
pliments Gaither with 11.5 

March 9 March 10 March 11 points and a team high 8.5 re­bounds. 
Notre Dame 
If the Musketeers attempt to close the paint with a zone, the 

(8) Xavier 
Irish will bomb away from the outside. Freshman guard Mollie Peirick is hitting 52.4 percent of her shots from three-point land while Morgan provides another outside threat with 18.0 points a game. 
Morgan has just returned from a knee injury and should be available for the Irish, al­though she may not start. 

"I hope it's 100 percent," she said of her knee. "I have been limited to shooting in practice, trying to save it up for the tour­nament." The Oboerver/Chrlstopher Mullins 
t 

LENTEN FACULTY RETREAT 
For Single and Married Notre Dame Faculty and Spouses 
Friday, March 24 -Saturday, March 25 
8:00 p.m. 8:00 p.m. 
A time of quiet and personal rcflecti011, the retreat will include opportunity for shared reflection on tile biblical texts for tile Sundays of Lent. 
Offered by: David Burrell, C.S.C. and John Gerber, C.S.C. 
Place: Mary's Solitude on the St. Mary's College Campus 
Cost: $35.00 per person, three Saturday meals included. 
RESERVATIONS ARE REQUESTED BY MARCH 10, BUT WILL BE ACCEITED UNTIL MARCH 17. Only 14 places are available. 
Contact Fr. John G('rbcr, C.S.C., I Ioly Cross House, 631-8474 or Sharon Harwell at Fischer Community Center 631-8607. 
and they've nothing to lose." "Xavier is a real emotional

MCC 
team that can come back and win," Poor added. "We've fo­cused in practice not to be com­placent and let them beat us." 
And that is the only way the Musketeers could win -if the Irish let them. 
The Irish should dominate every position on the court. 
"I don't think, personnel wise, that they can match-up with us," Morgan said. 
Inside the paint, sophomore center Katryna Gaither is aver­aging a team-high 18.8 points a continued from page 16 


past two meetings the Irish have walked away with near double-digit wins, the last of these coming just eight days ago. 
Although they have had Xavier's number this season, the Irish know that they will have to be ready for anything. 
"We can't overlook Xavier," Morgan commented. "We've beat them twice this season, 


NOW THAT'S MARCH 
CLASS RETREAT 

FRIDAY, MARCH 24TH, SATURDAY MARCH 25TH 
SIGN UP IN THE DINING HALLS TUESDAY AND THURSDAY 
EVENING 
QUESTIONS? CALL 631;5136 

GET INVOLVED! BE PART OF PLANNING 
YOUR JrPW~ 
APPLY FOR A P05/TION ON THE 
1996JPW EXECUTIVE COMM11TEE! 
DON'T Ml SS OUT! 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT THE LAFORTUNE INFO DESK. APPLICATIONS ARE DUE IN 315 LAFORTUNE BY 5:00P.M. ON 
-----------------. page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, March 9, 1995 
-. 1995 NCAA BIG EAST BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP 
1st Round Quarterfinals Semifinals Championship March 9 March 10 March 11 March 12 
BIG EAST 
(1) Connecticut 
Seton Hall 

St. John's 
(9) Pittsburgh 

• COllEGE BASKETBAll 
team members Eric Eberz and 
Jason Lawson. Syracuse is probably facing continued from page 16 the most pressure of any of the 
top seeds. The Orangemen meaning that the competition have been stung by a late sea­might be becoming less daunt­son collapse, and need to play ed by the fearsome 2-2-1 well to avoid slipping to a No. 6 Connecticut fullcourt pressure. or 7 seed in the NCAAs. 
Villanova, Syracuse, and However, 'Cuse is also the only Georgetown also have NCAA squad with two first team per­seeding concerns. formers, guard Lawrence 
The Wildcats have continued Moten, a three time selection, their surprising Big East turn­and forward John Wallace. around, posting a 14-4 league Similarly, Georgetown hopes mark. Led by consensus first that a strong showing will con­team performer Kerry Kittles, vince the selection committee the conference's leading scorer not to send the Hoyas out west at 23.2 points per game, 'Nova for the tournament. Led by is hoping that a strong showing consensus Rookie of the Year could move them up to a No. 2 and Defensive Player of the seed in the NCAAs. That possi­Year Allen Iverson, bility will likely be controlled Georgetown is capable of by the supporting cast, second sneaking up on the top three. 
Madness 
BEWARE! 
On March 15th this person turns 
21!! 

Happy Birthday 
CO)IFJlN~ 

Burks, pending charges, suspended by UMass 
Associated Press ''I'm not going to say any­thing about it and Andre is not AMHERST, Mass. going to say anything about it," 
Injured freshman guard said Burks' lawyer Richard Andre Burks was suspended Howland. from the Massachusetts team, Kay Scanlon, a university pending the outcome of assault spokeswoman said Burks' sta­
• and battery charges. tus as a student at the school 
Three weeks ago, coach John was not affected by his suspen­Calipari suspended senior sion from the team. guard Mike Williams for the Burks played in six games remainder of the season for before being sidelined Jan. 3 unspecified disciplinary rea­with a knee injury. sons. Recently, he was among six 
basketball players honored by 

Burks, 19, of Baton Rouge, the university's athletic de­La., was released on his own partment for having a 3.0 recognizance after pleading in­grade point average last semes­nocent at his arraignment ter. Monday in Northampton District Court in the Saturday Three of those honored, in­night incident involving a girl­cluding center Marcus Camby, friend. A pretrial hearing is and forwards Donta Bright and scheduled for March 23. Tyrone Weeks, had been 
The 19-year-old woman, who placed on academic probation, had been dating Burks for but allowed to continue play­three months, said he slammed ing, after they did so poorly last her head into a cinder block spring that their overall grade wall after they argued outside point averages fell below a 2.0 his dormitory room. or C. 
GQADUATION 
STUDENT WORKERS CATERING 
$$MAY15-21$$ 
FREE ROOM/BOARD $6.25 PER HOUR 
ROOM CONTRACT SIGN UPS BEGIN MARCH 20 FROM 10 AM -5 PM LAST DAY TO SIGN CONTRACT APRIL 3 
CATERING EMPLOYMENT OFFICE LOWER LEVEL-SOUTH DINING HALL 
631-5449/8792 
.&& 
23 OHIO STATE 3:00p.m.VARSITY SHOP 
30 BOWLING GREEN 3:00p.m . 
...., 
APRIL 
• Baseball 

8 WISC.-GREEN BAY 1:00 p.m. 
• 
Cross Country 9 LOYOLA 1:00 p.m. 

• 
Fencing 12 WESTERN MICHIGAN 3:00p.m.


NOTRE DAME 
• Golf 21 LA SALLE 3:30p.m.
JOYCE ACC 
• 
Lacrosse 22 CLEVELAND STATE 1:00 p.m. 

• 
Soccer 29 INDIANA 12:00 p.m. 

• 
Softball MAY


SECOND FLOOR 
• S""imming 4 NORTHWESTERN 3:00p.m.
CONCOURSE 
• 
Tennis 6 DETROIT 1:00 p.m. 

• 
Track & Field 



ALL HOME GAMES at IVY FIELD ­
• Volleyball

631·8560 across from Eck Tennis Pavilion. 

,-. 

Thursday, March 9, 1995 
The Observer • TODAY page 15 
MIRRORlAND 
HUY NGOC PHAN CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 
.-.-.-.~,-.-.-,-.-----~~~~~~~.~-y---,---;-.-, 


BILL WAITERSON 

f\ Sol< CJr l-18'1 CRT\iol'l'S! I-lOW ll\E.~ 'R£_ 1\U. POII'I\"1, Lll'l~\) UP \t-1 ORDER, BRIG\\T AND Pt.RITCT! 

L______
__JI DILBERT SCOIT ADAMS 



CROSSWORD ACROSS 36 "Heaven Must 64 Synthetic fabric Have Sent You" 
65From-Z

1 Hubbub 
singer 4 Tray filler 
66 TV actor Jack 

40 Unrigid 7 "No. sirree!" 41 Barker 121972 Olympics 43 Track down DOWN star 46 Upscale singer? 1 Bon follower 16ln harmony 47 "Is ita boy­
2 Baseball's 
girl?"

17 OPEC member Quisenberry 48 "Now I know 
18 Man in red 3 California fort 
why!"19 "The Ferrari in 
4 Grant portrayer 51 Did with a

the Bedroom." 5 Canine 
passion?

author command
53 West Coast 

21 Start off & Belonging to Li'l
Senator 
Abner

24 Doll's name 57 Obscure 7 Lid fastener 
25Appeal 58 Charity 8 Bonneville Flats 2& Crossing word &2 Jimmy Dorsey site
hit "Maria-"

27 Proven sound 
9 Genuine 

63 Original30 Whiff 10 Not genuine 
Woodstock 31 Dream team rocker 11 Chaired 
-------------13 Lollipop cop
14 "-sad sight

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE to see the year dying": FitzGerald 

~"'+'+-'-~ 15 Newswoman 320ne-44 By swallowing 54 Curse dimensional 45 List 55 Sea east of the 20 PaulaInvolve 33 Set the pace Caspian
~m~m~~~~~~n~~ 4& Language of 

21 Night shift 34 Bath bath ancient Rhodes 56 Fit to serve F+~;+:,:...,.;, f.::~H~;..l worker 35 Book of the 59 Accepts
49 Pilgrimage


R4=+==-!.,;, H~=-JIII..-..;,J.:-+-+='-~ 22 Ancient Dead Apocrypha: &o Prefix with 
50 Peek ending 
Sea kingdom Abbr. realism 51 On the money 
37 Scottie &1 Sign of 

~rud!~tijjijil 23 Pro-(like

~-=+::::.JI~+=-=~ some legal Pippen's org. 52 Kind of ism popularity work) 38 Rephrase j...:..+==+-=-~ 28 Atlantic flier 39Wander 
Get answers to any three clues 
~-:+:=+.:::~ 29 At\. flier 42Wander 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
~::.+.:=+:=:-! 31 Operating 43 Hurled, as 
5656 (75¢ each minute). 
without--grenades 

----------...... . .... . .. . . . . . .. . . 



)OC\'1. nlt~'ll I3E (>.. 'iMKI\ 01' GROJ~\'J-O<:ttl~. ROJ~I'JE.D, 1!-ID\Siit-IGIJI~f\Bl'E: S\\Jio\PS, M\S'Sit-IG 11\E\R 'N~f\~ ~ 
., ~\JOGtD 'flm\ On\E.R COLOR'S. 
Ii _.,~~ I i ~-:.
l .... 

Take Your Child to Work Day at Fernview Hospital. 
,·::::: 
)0)~,:.;..: 
I OF INTEREST 
"Transitions In Cuba" will be the subject of a talk by Alberto Prieto from the University of Havana will today at 4:15 pm in C-103 Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
• MENU  L  
Notre Dame  
No:ili Dining Hall Corn Dogs Oriental Blend  South Dining Hall English Beef Soup Rissole Potatoes  
Snickers Cheesecake  French Silk Pie  
Saint Mary's  

Call 284·5400 for the evening menu 

ShaPe oPinion on camPus. Work for ViewPoint. For more info call Mike at 1-4541. 
.. 
• 

•. ' ,-,.-f -,---r---~~-~~--­
SPORTS 
page 16 Thursday, March 9, 1995 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBAll 
Continuing the domination 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT Sports Writer 

There is no turning back. This is the last chance they will get and they are confident. 
In the seven seasons since joining the Midwestern Collegiate Conference, the Notre Dame women's basket­ball team has won four regular season titles and five confer­ence tournament champi­onships. The only year they did not win the MCC tournament was at the end of the 1992-93 season. 
Tonight the number one seed Irish (18-8, 15-1) will take the first step towards their sixth tournament championship when they battle the eighth seed Musketeers of Xavier at 5:30p.m. in DeKalb, Illinois. 
With this being the last sea­son for the Irish in the MCC before joining the Big East, it will be the last time they get to dominate their MCC foes. 
"This team is very confident going in," sophomore forward Beth Morgan said. "We should dominate the conference tour­nament. We're the best in MCC and we want to leave the impression that we're the best." 
"We want to win going out (of the MCC)." junior forward 


The Observer/Eric Ruethling Although Beth Morgan has only played 18 minutes in the past five gaf!leS and has been limited in practice, the Irish expect her to play 

tomght. 
Carey Poor said. "We want to show the MCC that we're a level above them." 
This confidence is justly de­served. The Irish have won all but one conference game this season and their one loss came against a team they had de­feated by 22 points earlier in the season. 
When the Irish face the Musketeers it will be for the third time this season. In the 
see MCC I page 13 

Notre Dame vs Xavier DeKalb, Illinois at 5:30 p.m. 
This will be the third meeting this season for the Irish and Musketeers (14-13, 7-9 MCC). The Irish took the first two games easily against an out manned Musketeer squad. 
Look for the Irish to continue the trend and advance in the tournament behind a balanced attack. The winner will face the winner of the Northern Illinois vs. Wisconsin-Green Bay game. The Irish could face Butler in the finals. 
Irish would rank 
among bottom 
four seeds 
By TIM SEYMOUR Associate Spons Editor 
March Madness. An epidem­ic that sweeps college campus­es as diverse as Gonzaga University and North Carolina -Chapel Hill. 
Amidst this mania, the Notre Dame men's basketball team must anxiously watch and wait, its fate to be determined by the fallout of conference tournaments and the whims of power brokers in Manhattan. 
But the Irish will only be left out of the fun for one more year. Joining the Big East con­ference will provide Notre Dame with the opportunity to play its way into the NCAA tournament by winning the 
.. conference's automatic bid . The beauty of the conference tournament format is that it gives every team a taste of the 
• MEN'S BASKETBAll. 
Looking for an invitation 
performances to enhance their case for post-season play. 

The Friars are the most dan­gerous squad coming into the tournament. Coming off two upset wins over No. 6 UConn (72-70) and No. 13 'Nova (71­70), Providence will need a big effort from all-Big East first team forward Eric Williams to defend its title. 
The top seeds also have much on the line, as their posi­tioning in the NCAAs depends on their performance in this weekend's action. 
Connecticut has perhaps the most at stake. The Huskies have an outside chance at the No. 1 seed in the East Regional, but will need help in other conference tournaments as well as a convincing cham­pionship run in their own tour­nament. 
At 16-2, the Huskies have been nearly invincible in con­ference play, but their two losses have both occurred to­wards the end of the season, 
see MADNESS I page 14 

excitement, and every team, whether conference leader or doormat. knows that a string of victories will extend its sea­son. 
Previous Big East history supports this claim. Last sea­son, the fourth seeded Providence Friars, at best a "bubble" team for the Big Dance, rode senior leadership to the tournament title and a berth in the NCAAs. 
This year's tournament has the potential to be much the same. It will be the last one before the conference expands with the addition of Notre Dame, West Virginia, and Rutgers, and boasts numerous "bubble" teams who need a strong performance to con­vince the NCAA selection com­mittee of their merit. 
The top four seeds in the tournament -Connecticut, Villanova, Syracuse, and Georgetown -are virtual locks for NCAA bids. However, sec­ond tier teams like Providence, Seton Hall, and possibly Miami and St. John's all need strong 


ofnote...
HANDLING THE PRESSURE

• 
Ex-ND hoops coach Digger 
Can Jim Harrick's UCLA team handle 

Phelps will coach the 55 year-old 
the pressure of March Madness? 

contestant for the million-dollar 
see page 12 

three-point basket promotion. 


