
Wednesday, March 8, 1995• Vol. XXVI No. 102 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Night owls keep watch over dorms 
By JESSICA ZIGMOND News Writer 
The presence of a familiar face is a small reminder of the comfort of coming "home" each night. The night-time assistants, or desk workers, at Saint Mary's help make each of the dorms seem more like a home. 
Fran Heim and Sharon Bunde, the night assis­tants at Holy Cross and Regina Halls respectively, work hard to make students feel more at home while they spend their days and nights at Saint Mary's. 
One year after the sudden death of her husband in 1978, Heim began working one night a week at McCandless Hall. Heim heard about the desk as­sistant position from a friend and said accepting the job "changed her life." 
"I was always a night person," Heim said. " So, I thought this job would be perfect for me." 
Sixteen years later, the job does seem to be the right one for Heim, who now works Saturday and Sunday nights from 11pm until 7am at Holy Cross Hall. 
Although many people would think starting a new career at 58 would be too difficult, Heim 
see WORKERS I page 4 
T~ield and Hutchinson left in runoff 
I · LAURA FERGUSON 
~~~~~8h~~~~e~~kiac:.odarte SMC Election -Class of 1997 
' •Ill Mary's News Ediror 
The ticket of Kelly 69.4% of sophomore class voted :lound thrnn of the Saint Mary's Dunn/Stephanie Wilberd­1 ,.,s of 1997 class elections will con-ing/Mia Pavlik/Brigid Keys Jue tomorrow with a runoff election followed with 8.1 percent. tween the tickets of Leslie In contrast to the 53 per­.·ld/Emily Ruffner/Becky cent of abstaining votes in 
llog/Annie Korte and Leigh Anne the initial class of 1997 elec­.tchison!Anna Hafaj/Laura Loh/Kelly tion, only 2. 7 abstained in nneno. yesterday's vote. In total, 
YnstHrday, the current sophomore 69.4 percent of the current r 1 l'iS cast thnir ballots for a total of sophomore class participated ~ m1 tickets of which the Field ticket in the most recent election. 
·eived 20.1 percent of the vote. According to Field, who is olehinson's ticket attracted 22.2 running for the class presi­rcent. dent office, the focus of their i'he ticket of Heather Stein­ticket is including the ideas of 
' ,ller/Colleen Duffy/Melissa the entire class. li~tlll~rts/Kelly Cook received 15.8 per­"We are interested in what c·pnt while Cassin Sears/Kerrie everyone else is interested in, Carter/Kim !'ohlman/Kim Holston 
" said Field. "We will mold -----------------­next year to fit the class's needs... dren in the area, if elected to office,areumulated 11.5 of the total votes. 
Although the main points on the Field says their first goal will be ere­
Sam Mangiaforte/Hose Ma-
Field platform are the junior jazz fes-ating a solid board. 
• i.·jnwski/Carrie Uhl!Megan Borchers 

• fACUlTY SENATE 


Blandford claims victory with latest resolution 
GWENDOLYN NORGLE Assistant News Editor 
The Faculty Senate supports the recognition of Gays and Lesbians of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College (GLND/SMC) as a result of the resolution passed at the Senate's meeting last night. 
Despite the repeated claim of Vice President of Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara that GLND/SMC will not be recognized because it is "philosophically inconsistent" with the official teaching of the Catholic Church, 30 members of the Senate were in favor of the resolution. Three members opposed the resolution, while four members abstained from the resolution which resolves that "the Faculty Senate calls upon the officers of the University immediately to recognize GLND/SMC." 
In response to the passing of the resolution by the Senate, GLND/SMC Co-Chair John Blandford said it was "an overwhelming victory especially considering the high level of conversation dur­ing the meeting." 
"I hope the administration understands its published response on Monday was inadequate and that it has failed to recognize the will of the University as a whole," Blandford said. 
Prior to the passage of the resolution, O'Hara spoke and answered questions on the issue of GLND/SMC's recognition, which Chair of the Faculty Senate Father Richard McBrien described as "a matter of general University concern." 
O'Hara said that she did not have much more to add to the letter printed in Monday's issue of The Observer, in which she responded to the Campus Life Council's resolution, which asked the administration to recognize GLND/SMC. According to O'Hara, the issue is a "dispute over means to an agreed upon end." 
One of the reasons for her denying GLND/SMC recognition, O'Hara said, was its statement of its belief that "Notre Dame has a unique oppor­tunity to influence young gays and lesbians by steering them in the direction of stable, monog­amous relationships." This statement, includ­ed in GLND/SMC's application for recognition submitted to the Office of Student Activities in 
see SENATE/ page 6 

tival, the class video yearbook, and "We would send out a survey to the1 I'd with the ticket of Katie Trumper/Kathleen Michaels/Mary balloon delivery to hospitalized chil­
see ELECTION I page 4 
Notre Dame not alone in GLND/SMC decision 
l:ditor's Note: This is the sec­"''d installment ofa four-part ·. · ries examining the dilemma r·I heing gay and Catholic. 
111 HETH REGAN ~·""' Mary's Editor 
As the debate over issues of l·ornosexuality continue to rage in the Notre DamPJSaint Mary's community, Saint Mary's Col­lngn will strictly follow the stanee of the Catholic Church. 
Most of the attention has been I'·H~IfsP.d on Notre Dame during l his period of turmoil, however, llw SMC in GLND/SMC is equal­lr important, according to co­' hair Kelly Smith. 
"The numbers tend to be s111allcr at Saint Mary's," said ~mi1h. "Students here seem to I ~ very supportive, but there is ; lack of dialogue. People seem ~ ·~ared to speak out on the ,,,pie." 
The apprehension Smith is ~:dking about might stem from tlc1~ College's official policy, es­,.,IJiished in 1986 in response to (:I ND/SMC's application for of­
ficial recognition at Saint Mary's. 
The policy states: "As a Catholic institution, Saint Mary's College supports the position of the Catholic Church on homosexuality. Because the Church does not condone the homosexual lifestyle, the col­lege does not officially recog­nize gay and lesbian groups on campus. 
"However, as members of the Saint Mary's community, all students are offered the ser­vices extended to any individual student. These would include campus ministry and counsel­ing services." 
The Counseling and Career Center does provide individual, confidential counseling for those students dealing with is­sues concerning sexual orien­tation. The Center follows the guidelines of the American Psy­chological Association, like the Counseling Center at Notre Dame. The Center also pro­vides students with the Catholic Church's official position and explanation of homosexuality. 
Gay and~,Catholic r 

Part2of4 ~, 
The Office of Multicultural Af­fairs is also involved in educat­ing students about sexual pref­erence. 
"This office works to create an environment in which all students feel comfortable, re­spected and accepted," said Di­rector of Multicultural Affairs Maricela Ramirez, "an envi-· ronment in which students can be safe and can grow together both personally and intellectu­ally regardless of race, religion, ethnicity and sexual prefer­ence." 
The office strives to provide programming to educate stu­dents to be more appreciative of differences, according to Ramirez. 
"As a consequence, they will be more accepting of those with different lifestyles," Ramirez said. "I think that we are defi­nitely accomplishing something in changing behaviors and atti­tudes." 

Smith, who enrolled at Saint Mary's as a freshman in 1988, turned to the Counseling Center when she was dealing with feel­ings of depression before "com­ing out" in the spring of 1991. She gave other possible reasons for her depression to the psy­chologists that counseled her because she was unable to con­front her homosexuality. 
"I was being untruthful about my problems with myself, my family and the counseling cen­ter. I just wasn't comfortable dealing with the real problem until one of my friends revealed that she was having similar feelings." 
Smith had trouble talking about her sexual orientation because she felt alone, she said. Upon realizing that her feelings were not unique, she turned to a group setting for counseling. 
"I initiated contact with Melissa Bell, the co-chair of GLND/SMC at that time. She 
encouraged me to get involved with the organization," Smith said. "It was great because J could see a lot of other people just like me. Regular people, with similar feelings. 
"The group made me feel more confident about being myself." 
Smith will graduate in the spring of 1996 with a Bachelor of Science in Biology. 
"It is important for me to re­main in South Bend," said Smith. "The group here is like a family and being active in GLND/SMC is important." 
Smith lead support groups at Notre Dame in the fall of 1992 and 1993. She is currently or­ganizing a support group for lesbians and bi-sexuals at Saint Mary's. 
"It is important to begin to in­crease awareness at Saint Mary's," Smith said. "In order for change to occur in the pol­icy, there needs to be a grass roots movement. 
"There must be a break in the 
see SMC/ page 4 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, March 8, 1995 





Spring Break or Bust!!! 






• WoRLD ttr A Gu~cr: 
U.N. Offering to Change Mission to Stay in Croatia 
ZAGREB~~C'C/~ meet some of Tudjman's demands to 
The United Nations is offering tol !ii;!?:~IA' change their mission. change its peacekeeping mission According to officials who spoke on Croatia to keep thousands of troops condition of anonymity, the United place and avert a second Serb-Croa Nations is offering to replace peacekeep­war, U.N. officials say. ing troops on the 700-mile Serb-Croat 
The changes might appease front line with unarmed monitors. If the government, which ordered the 12 monitors and unar'med and limited only peacekeepers out by March 31. but to reporting what they see, Croatian unlikely the rebel Serbs who hold troops would have a freer hand to attack a third of the republic's territory the Serbs. agree. In addition, U.N. troops are offering to 
President Franjo Tudjman's order take up positions on Croatia's border, as January, blaming the peacekeepers Tudjman demands. But the Serbs control failing to restore government con much of that border, and they're likely over rebel areas, raised the specter to reject U.N. control of cross-border renewed war once the peacekeepi traffic, which moves freely between troops leave. Serbia and Serb-held eastern Croatia. 
The Serbs and Croats fought a U.N. control of the border might let month war in 1991 after Croati some of the 250,000 Croat refugees from declared independence from Serb-domi­Serb areas return to their homes, and nated Yugoslavia. AP reinforce Tudjman's insistence that the 
If more fighting breaks out, it could quickly spread to rebel-held border is Croatian, not Serb. Bosnia, where Croatia's government announced a mili­Michael Williams, U.N. spokesman in Zagreb, con­tary alLiance Monday with Bosnian Croats and the firmed there is a proposal to revise the U.N. mission, but Muslim-led government. wouldn't give details. 
To prevent that, U.N. officials say they are trying to 
Officer fired for appearing in Playboy Seattle school bus drivers walk 
NEW YORK 
SEATTLE 
The city's No. 1 naked crime fighter was fired Tuesday About 300 school bus drivers went on strike today to by the police commissioner, who said she used her badge demand a pension plan, leaving thousands of students to to make a quick buck in Playboy magazine's "NYPD find other ways to get to class. Schools were open, how­Nude" pictorial. Carol Shaya, who made $100,000 posing ever, Seattle School District spokeswoman Dorothy Dubia in and out of uniform last August, was dismissed by said. Some programs, such as Head Start, were canceled.
Commissioner William Bratton, who overruled a depart­The drivers, who transport about 13,000 of the district's mental recommendation that she lose one month's pay 46,000 students, voted 139-100 Monday to reject a new and spend a year on probation. "The reputation of the contract offer from Laidlaw Transit Inc. that included a 
New York Police Department is not for sale, and there's pay raise but not the pension plan sought by the union 
no room in our organization for anyone who would Kevin Mest, operations director for Toronto-based 
attempt to do so," Bratton said. Playboy spokeswoman Laidlaw. said the company is developing a pension plan Diane Stefani said Bratton's decision might reflect his for its 20,000 drivers nationwide and doesn't want topersonal feelings. "We believe looking at pictures of bargain over specifics in individual contracts. Gregbeautiful women nude is a good thing, and positive," she Slaughter, Teamsters Local 763 business agent, did not said. "But many of us are frightened by the human body immediately return phone calls seeking comment on the unclothed." After a departmental trial in January, the vote. The drivers had been working without a contract four-year NYPD veteran was found guilty of "engaging in since September. Top scale of $12.75 an hour would have conduct detrimental to the good order, efficiency and dis­gone to $13.60 in the third year of the proposed contract. 
cipline of the department." 
Former Governor Wilder assaulted Husband accused of wife's murder 
RICHMOND PLYMOUTH 
An airport security guard shoved As fire engulfed his family's home last November,and choked former Gov. L. Douglas Lance Wargo snatched his two children from their beds Wilder as he tried to board a flight and guided them out a window. His wife, Wendy, was still from North Carolina to Virginia early inside. Neighbors watched as Wargo pounded on theTuesday, Wilder and airport officials front door and attacked the burning building with a gar­
said. The attack occurred when 
den hose -to no avail. His wife never emerged. On Wilder, unhappy with his treatment Tuesday, state police said Wargo knew she never would. 
when he set off a metal detector, tried Wargo, 36, was charged with murdering his wife and set­
to read the guard's name off his 
ting his home on fire to cover up the slaying. He was held identification badge, said Rick Martinez, spokesman for on $1 million bond pending arraignment Wednesday.
the Raleigh-Durham International Airport. The guard Suspicion had grown since the Nov. 19 fire as police de­was fired, Martinez said. Wilder told listeners to his radio termined that the woman, who had recently filed for program on WRVA-AM that metal bars on his suspenders divorce, was dead before the fire began. "We're shocked triggered the metal detector as he prepared to board the that it happened, but we're not shocked that he got7:35 a.m. flight. When he tried to explain, the guard told arrested," said neighbor Ronald Poulin. Police would not 
him to "turn around and get up against the wall, I 
comment Tuesday on his wife's cause of death, the cause haven't quite finished with you." Wilder said he decided of the fire or what led to the arrest. Because the bodyto report the guard and turned to look at his name tag.f. 
was so badly burned, a cause of death could not be deter­Wilder, the nation's first black governor, served from mined. But in January, preliminary test results showed 1990 until 1994. He said in an interview that the guard Wargo's wife died before the fire. 
was white but he did not know whether the incident had 
anything to do with race. He said he was not injured. 




Wednesday, March 8 Accu-Weather'"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, March 8. 
40s sweet sound of birds chirping or even the bright sunshine. Remember, this IS South Bend. But every year, just about this time, there is a noticeable twinkle in every student's eye. 
The signs are unmis­ Amy Schmidt  
takable.  News Copy Editor  
No, I don't mean the  

Crowds form at Anthony Travel as last­minute trip planners try to find decent ticket prices. Pre-tanned bodies stroll around cam­pus hoping that no one will notice their all too apparent "fake bake." And who can forget the oh-so-painstakingly crafted Hawaiian Tropics display at the Bookstore? 
We are on the brink of Spring Break-only three days until departure, to be exact. This is a time when college students across the coun­try can forget academic endeavors, at least for the time being. 
The countdown to March 10 began quite some time ago for me, namely the first day of spring semester. While trudging to class dur­ing tundra-like weather in mid-February, I would keep my spirits up by crossing off the days in my mental calendar. 
During those endless February days, I also heard a plethora of plans in progress-trips to Cancun, South Padre, Jamaica, Hawaii. I could just picture myself lying on a beach, basking in the warm glow of the tropical sun... feeling the cool laps of the waves as they crashed ashore ...the euphoric feeling of not having one single paper due within the next seven days ... 

But wait a minute. Had I forgotten my REAL 
plans for break so soon? Had I forgotten that my noticeably fair skin would fry to a crisp in the tropical sun? Had I forgotten that the thought of being seen in a bathing suit in mid­March was just as appealing to me as a root 
, canal? The truth is that my huge spring break

Iplans have nothing to do with balmy climates 
I or sun-kissed beaches. Like many a poor col­

! lege student, I will be going home-not even far away, seeing as I live in the "exotic" city of Chicago. Sure. I'm sacrificing a golden tan that is certainly a hot commodity at the end of March. I am also sacrificing a trip to some far-away place that would no doubt leave me 
WARM STATIONARY !CI1995 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
: with enough stories to tell for the rest of the 
I
i semester. 

• But just think about what I am getting in i return: free laundry, no meatless baked ziti ! nightmares courtesy of the dining hall, no : parietals. The benefits are endless! And in 1 addition to all those perks, I get to spend · <;orne quality time with my dog while watching ' all the Ricki Lake re-runs one human could :handle. 
I'll get to wake up in the morning knowing 1 that I won't have to fumble around in a half­! asleep stupor trying to find the "good" shower 
in the bathroom. Heck, I'll even get to take a hath!! So although my spring break plans may 

seem less than exciting, at least I'll know : exactly where my luggage is when it is time to 1 return to good ol' ND. For now, I'll just have ' to live vicariously through the stories told by ! t.he rest of you wild n' crazy kids! 
The views expressed in the Inside Column nre those of the author and not necessarily 1 those ofThe Observer. 

llndianapoli3 36° I News Graphics 
ILL 
• 
Dave Ring Chris Mullims Morgan Bracken Viewpoint 

Sports Meaghan Smith Tim Sherman Vicky Prattle Megan McGrath Lab Tech Production Dane Kramer Heather Gibson Accent Tara Grieshop Shannon Marie Johnston 
rhe Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday chrough Friday ! 1·xcepr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of 1,1., :'\ssociared Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
'----------------------------------~ 

COLD 
Pressure AAl._ ~ r'\ 
H L B&SII:Til 0[33§~ ~~ 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Vis Associaled Press 
Atlanta  50  33  Dallas  62  30  New Orleans58  39  
Baltimore 36  31  Denver  67  33  New York36  34  
Boston  36  31  Los Angeles64  57  Philadelphia36  32  
Chicago 36  13  Miami  78  69  Phoenix 80  55  
Columbus 37  18  Minneapolis30  -1  St. Louis46  21  


Wednesday, March 8, 1995 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Professors assist with quark 
•HAUPRESIDENT'scounc•L 

By JAMIE HEISLER The quark, discovered in the must be run numerous times in 
WVFI requests funds 
News Writer 1960s, is a subatomic particle order to confirm results. "The 
found in the proton of an atom. experiments go on around the f t • t • t FM 

The discovery of the top "It is a strongly interacting par-clock all year long," said 0 r ransI I 0 n 0 
quark, a subatomic particle whose existence previously had only been suspected, was con-
f i  r  m  e  d  
recently with  
the assistance  
of  three  of  
Notre Dame's  
professors.  
Tho  task  
which  had  
Pluded .physi­rists for  Ruchti  
d e c a d e s  
involved over  
IJOO scientists  
and graduate  
s t u d e n t s  
among whom  
w  e  r  e  
P r of e s so r  ·.  
n a  n  d  a  I  
H u c h t i ,  Blswas  
P r o f e s s o r  
Nripendra  Biswas,  and  

Assistant Professor Mitchell Wayne. 
The physicists, who operated out of the Fermilab in Batavia, Ill., were divided into 2 groups, CDF and DZero, which were also the names of the large multi-purpose detectors used to study the collisions of protons and anti-protons. The groups "shared complimentary philosophies" according to Wayne, and both played an Pqual part in the ground-break­ing discovery. 
"There are rare events like 1his in the history of science ••nd it's nice to be a part of it. \Ve happen to be the beneficia­riPs, but we're standing on the shoulders of lots of other peo­pie," said Huchti. 
ticle involved in the essence of the nuclear force. It is one of the fundamental elements of m a t t e r , " according to 
Ruchti. 
The six 
types of 
quarks that 
exist, includ­
ing Up, Down, 
C h a r m , 
Wayne Strange , 
Top/Truth, and Bottom/ Beauty, differ in mass and electronic charge with the top quark being the most massive. The existence of the top quark had been pre­dieted since the 1960s but could not be proven with the then existing means of measurement. 
The proof of its existence was difficult not only because of the enormous amount of energy needed to produce that much mass, but also because once produced, such a massive par­ticle deteriorates within a tril­lionth of a trillionth of a second. 
In order to create a situation in which a top quark could be produced, the physicists at Fermilab used the Tevatron, the most powerful particle ac­celerator in the world. The Tevatron allows the subatomic particles, protons and anti-pro­tons, to reach speeds near that of light. As the particles speed up., they gain mass until they finally collide producing quarks. 
Only one in every ten billion collisions produces a top quark, however, so the experiments 



Bug.gy's 21! 

~appy Birthday 
Chris! 

Love, Mom, Dad, Charlie and Andy 

Wayne. The present group of experiments started in Novem­her 1993 and involves a two year run. Within this time, only around 17 events have been observed which might have produced top quarks. 
"It's a blockbuster of an event, but it needs to be a sta­tistically proven one. We need thousands of discoveries. It's a slow process which requires careful analysis; we've taken interesting events which have been dribbling in over time. It requires patience, but this kind of discovery is what sustains you in something like this-it's what we live for," said Ruchti. 
The discovery of the top quark has had significant con­sequences according to the pro­fessors. "The discovery of the top quark confirms the theory that there are six types of quarks and that there probably aren't any more. It also tells us how the top quark should de­cay. We would also love to dis­cover that the top behaves in a regular way or a quirky, in other words, new physics way," Ruchti said. 
The three professors have been involved in the project since September 1990 when they introduced the concept of a new detector to the others at Fermilab. The new detector was not used in the original discovery of the top quark but will be useful in future probing of the nature and properties of the top quark. 
"The experiments will be up­graded during the next three or four years. Notre Dame's biggest role will come then us­ing an even more powerful tool for detecting and studying properties in more detail," ac­cording to Ruchti. 
The discovery of the top quark opens up an entire field 
of investigation into such seem­ingly simple concepts as the existence of mass. "The deep problem is where mass comes 
from. We don't really know what mass is, and this is at the fundamental level. The pur-
Pose is to get at that," said 
Wayne.
" By the end of the decade we 
will know more about the top quark and we can also use it as f 1 b f II · ·n a type 0 a ' Hope U y' It Wl
lead to lots more questions,"
said Ruchti. 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
Associate News Ediwr 
Representatives of WVFI-AM made a pitch to the Hall Presi­dents' Council last night, asking for money to help them begin the transition to the FM band. 
Steven Sostak presented a budget proposal to the council members seeking $5200 for an FM transmitter and about $2000 for an antenna. The transmitter, which would have a maximum power output of 50 watts, will be reduced to about 10 watts, Sostak said. 
"This will give us about a two to three mile radius in which to broadcast," he said. "We're not trying to pump out from here to Chicago." 
The proposed area of broad­casting would easily enclose the campuses of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, as well as off-campus areas where stu­dents reside. 
A grant from the HPC would show that the hall presidents strongly support WVFI's quest to convert to FM, according to Sostak. 
"We're looking for a concrete capital investment in the future of WVFI," said Sostak, who pointed out that the council has a substantial amount of money in its general fund that must be spent by April 1. If the money is not spent by that date, HPC will lose its claim to it. 
"If they're not going to use the money for other means, they might as well help us out if they think [going to FM] is a good idea," Sostak added. "The transmitter and antenna will need to be purchased soon­er or later." 
• CAMPUS BRIEF 
S{X'cialro The Observer 
Challenge 2000, the first Na· tion"l ·confer".nce on Alcohol
"' " 
and Other Drug Issues in Higher Education, will be held April7·9 at Notre Dame. The 
th""m.e of. the conference is
" 
"Prevention: Current Chal· lerige, Fu.ture .Visions." 
Conf~:~tence organizers be­!ieve that ''institutions of higher ~d'Ucaiio.,_ must be involved in 
c.re.. ~.t.. in.S... ·· a· positive learning and 
· 
$ocieal environment that is free 
The budget proposal will go before the HPC's budget com­mittee on March 21, according to Hilary Bonenberger, co-chair ofHPC. 
As WVFI continues working to win approval for the conver­sion to FM from both the Uni­versity and the Federal Com­munications Commission, the initial investment in new equip­ment must come from the funds of student organizations such as HPC, Sostak said. 
The administration will cover the operating budget in the fu­ture if and when the conversion is made, he added. 
In related news, surveys ask­ing students if they support the proposed conversion to FM were distributed via campus mail yesterday. 
In other HPC news: 
• A petition put forth by stu­dent government regarding "diversity and acceptance" is circulating the campus. 
The "We are all ND/SMC" petition states that those who sign it "believe the administra­tion's treatment of our com­munity's gay, lesbian and bi­sexual members to be inconsis­tent with the values and mis­sion of a Catholic educational institution." 
It also calls upon "our admin­istration to extend GLND/SMC the same rights and recognition afforded other student groups." 
• The Student Relations Council (SRC) proposed by Rich Palermo, co-chair of HPC, was voted down by HPC members, 29-8 with two abstentions. 
Palermo, who had vigorously pushed for the creation of the SHC, was not available to com­ment. 
of the pressures of alcohol and other drug use. This environ­ment must be supported by the ent1"re campus communt'ty t'n
-
eluding faculty, staff and stu· dents, and must have institu· tional backing beyond just alco­
hoi and other drug prevention offices." Organl·zers hope that thinkers 
... 
and planners on alcohol and other drug issues will come to· gather every two years to dis-CUSS, learn and devise effective prevention techniques. Confer· 

l·.:_:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~==~====!...-------------~===========ii ence participants will become
~ members of Vision Groups, or "think tanks," which are the central focus of Challenge 2000. The goal is that ..Vision

TRAVEL EMERGENCY KIT 

Buy the easy to use Western Union Phone Card, a pre-paid calling card. 
Available at 


Serving You Comes First 
Group members will become participants in a 'living confer­ence' by staying connected In followup discussions and recommendations." 
The conference keynote speaker will be Deirdre Breslin, an expert on alcohol abuse among youth and deputy direc­tor of the Intervention Service Unit of the New York State Of· fice of Alcoholism and Sub­stance Abuse Services. 
Breslin's background is as a teacher, school administrator, and curriculum developer. 
Breslin also recently has been designing programs for substance abuse clients and their children and is the archi· teet of "Alcohol: The Gateway Drug," a prevention program in New York state. 
The conference registration fee is $60 for students and $120 for professionals; dead­line for registration is March 15 since space is limited. The conference is being supported by J. Garrett Lyman, Cornelius Murphy and the I.A. O'Shaughnessy Foundation. 

page 4 
SMC 
continued from page I 
silence. People need to over­come their fear of talking about the issue. The un-Christlike at­titude needs to be dispelled." 
The College must take at realistic look at other Catholic institutions, according to Smith. 
"The administrators need to find out how they were able to recognize their gay and lesbian groups and work from there. The issue won't go away be­cause people affected by it are here and continue to be affect­ed by it," Smith said. 
Saint Mary's students will be confronted with gay and les­~ian issues when they get out mto other areas of life, accord­ing to Smith. 
"The College must deal with these issues because it is neces­sary for students to be educat­ed about the issue and compas­sionate towards others." 
"The current situation shows that the administrators are out of touch with their student bod­ies, faculty and alumnae in many cases," Smith said. 


Election 
continued from page 1 
entire class to find out prob­lems in the past and where to go in the future," commented Field. 
The opposing ticket headed by Hutchison as the presiden­tial candidate stressed their fresh approach for the class of 1997. 
According to Hutchison, their rampaign slogan "We're not just four peas in a pod" mflects that the four members of this ticket come from diverse backgrounds with leadership in some area. 
The focus of their platform include a class ski trip, bon­fire, spirit week, and a mass at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart with both the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame class­PS of 1997. 
"Our platform is based on unity," said Hutchison. "We want to get both campuses much more involved with each other. Our ideas are believ­able-they can get accom­plished." 
Members of the class of 1997 may cast their vote Thursday in the Dining Hall. 
Georgia Band 
to visit 

campus 

Widespread Panic; of . \ thens, Georia, will be per­forming on campus at the Stepan Center at 8:00 p.m. on 1\larch 23. Tickets are on sale
!
11ow at the LaFortune Information Desk at $14 for ·.tudents with a Notre Dame Saint Mary's, or Holy Cros~ Identification Card and $16 r-.,r non-students. Students l'n ay only be carrying their 
•''vn ID but may purchase up to eight tickets. Opening for 1Videspread Panic will be fue I lallas duo Jackopierce. 
Engagement Rings 
10%-15% OFF! 


Official Wholesale Price list! 
S.A. Peck & Co. 
55 E. lfb.rhington, Chicago, IL 60602 For a ~ 32-Page Color Catalog 


'lbU-Free (800) 922-0090 FAX (312) 9"-0248 lntemet Catalog at bttp: llwww.~~~peclc.comlsapeclc 


Workers 
continued from page 1 

accepted the challenge and was surprised to learn how much she enjoyed it. As the mother of two grown sons, a college full of women was another new experience for her. 
"I love the girls and the at­mosphere, said Heim. "It's a different world over here." 
Heim is a native of South Bend but she was never in­volved with Saint Mary's or the Notre Dame community until she started working at the night desk 16 years ago. 
Heim's first job was as a re­ceptionist at the South Bend Clinic during World War II, where she worked until she had her first son. 
She then spent the re·st of her time raising her family until she took the job at Saint Mary's. She currently lives in the same house with one of her two sons. 
Heim mentioned that the modernization of campus secu­rity has been the biggest im­provement for the college. She went on to explain that security has improved by making the campus more well-lit in the parking lots, as well as making the buildings safer regarding fire protection laws. 
Heim is also glad that the stu­dents are more aware of their own safety, and she is pleased that the security guards will drive students from different buildings on campus at night. 
Sharon Bunde, the night desk assistant at LeMans Hall on Friday and Saturday nights 
Interested in being an 
Accent CopyEditor 
for The Observer? 
The Observer • NEWS 

and Regina Hall on Sunday nights, shares Heim's opinion that campus security has im­proved greatly during her four years at Saint Mary's. 
"The biggest change I have noticed is that students no longer have to leave their ID's at the front desk when they have male guests over," said Bunde. "Maybe that is why campus security is more in­volved with the students than they were in the past years." 
Bunde began her first year working as an on-call assistant during the fall term of 1991, before she noticed a position for a regular part-time employ­ee. 
Bunde first worked as a re­ceptionist at Robertson's Photo Studio for two years, and then worked as a checker at County Market before leaving to take care of her stepfather, who was sick at the time. 
In her free time when the floor is quiet, Bunde enjoys working on cross-stitch. 
Her next project will be a cross stitch of the golden dome for a priest who comes in every morning to use the Regina pool. She explains that she loves where she works and the peo­ple she comes in contact with everyday. 
"I think anyone who works nights has to love their job or otherwise they would be miser­able," Bunde said. 
Clearly, night assistants like Fran Heim and Sharon Bunde work hard to make Saint Mary's College just that which it is-a safe campus environ­ment for students from across the country. 
Bring statement ofintent to Krista at Accent by Thursday, March 23 
----~~--­
GET INVOLVED! BE PART OF PLANNING 
vorurR. JJ rF>W~ APPLY FOR A POSITION ON THE 
1996JPW 



EXECUTIVE COMM11TEE! 
DON'T MISS OUT! 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT THE LAFORTUNE INFO DESK. APPLICATIONS ARE DUE IN 315 LAFORTUNE BY 5:00P.M. ON 
For a free copy of the Summer Session '95 catalog, call 1-800-FINDS NU (in Illinois, call708-491-5250), fax your request to 708-491-3660, e-mail your request to summer95@nwu.edu, or mail this coupon to Summer Session '95, 2115 North Campus Drive, Suite 162, Evanston, Illinois 60208-2650. 
Send the catalog to 0 my home 0 my school. 
School Address State Zip 
State Zip 
Northwestern is an equal opportunity, affirmative action educator and employer. 


----..---------~ ~ 
Wednesday, March 8, 1995 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
ROTC helps clean up camp 
By CHRISTINA TECSON from the members. some of the renovations that News Wrirer When Arnold Air Society were started. member Katrina Worman was The Notre Dame Chapter of 
Members of the Notre Dame approached by a representa­Arnold Air Society has under­Chapter of Arnold Air Society tive from the Christian camp to taken several other projects in­made a trip to Camp Ray Bird do the project, she saw it as a cluding a field day for under­Saturday for a service project, great opportunity for the soci­privileged children of the area doing various activities to help ety to be of service. last semester. This semester upgrade the Christian camp to "We saw going to Camp Ray they will be hosting a Junior keep it suitable for holding Bird as a fantastic opportunity ROTC unit at Notre Dame and seminars and retreats. to provide hands-on community are helping with preparations 
"Some people did dry walling, service for underprivileged kids for Christmas in April as well some people built some shelves, and actually see the results of as offering their services for the some people scraped paint off our labor." said Worman. event itself. the side of the house and oth­Hubner stated that the group ers were in the kitchen helping was established at Notre Dame to cook for the kids," said Jen "to promote the qualities of be­Hubner, public affairs officer of ing an officer and to help pre­


By PEGGY LENCZEWSKI the Notre Dame chapter. pare us to be officers. It's 
News Writer Arnold Air Society is a na­turned toward the direction of tional service group which service because the community 
RHA's involvement members of Air Force ROTC needs us. 
nTostal was the focus of las 
can voluntarily join after the "I was glad to go out and help 
night's meeting. completion of a class and a underprivileged kids learn 
In order to increase dorm in­pledge to the society's efforts. about God. It was a lot of fun. 
volvement, there will he dor The Arnold Air Society staff I thought Saturday was a good 
sponsored activities. SAB wil decides the projects in which experience. I would do it 
contribute prizes for the mos they would like to become in­again," said Hubner. involved dorm during. volved with the interest shown The students are hoping to go 
RHA member Leigh-An back in a few weeks to finish Hutchinson expressed some 
concern for participation on campus: "I am concerned tha 


the responsibility for plannin
The Department of Music 
hall activities will fall entire)
:Jacu[ty ~rtist Series 
on members of hall councils, 
since we do have trouble some times in gaining support." SAB ill structure the AnTostl'l. 
presents 

Craig Cramer 
activities around dorm activitie during the day. 

organ 
Holy Cross Hall will be hold 

Continuing his series of 
ing a block party in front of the hall. Food will be supplied b
'!he Complete Organ Works of 
the dining hall. and Holy Cro 
Johann Sebastian rf3ach 
Hall council is planning o ringing in one or two hands.
Including the Trio Sonata VI 
RHA will sponsor a rall1e; pro·8:00p.m. ceeds from the raffie and an other fund raisers held at the
Wednesday, March 8,1995 
party will go towards the Mar
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Fox Scholarship Fund. 


Community at ND/SMC is just beginning. 

A Tolerance/ Awareness Committee is forming to serve the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Community. The work ofthe committee will be the support ofunderrepresented/marginalized groups on campus, and the hope is that by such a show ofsupport, the attitudes which make for exclusion (ranging from apathy to bit­ter intolerance) will begin to change. This is an opportunity to get involved, ifyou aren't already, or to get more involved, if you find you have more to give. If you're interested, there's an organizational meeting in the basement ofLaFortune, Wednesday, March 8th at 7:30p.m. 
For more information, please call: 
Gina x4800, Chris x3611 or Amy x4885 
p:1ge 6 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, March ~. 1995 
would "keep the Catholic teach­activities. dents for support, comfort, to O'Hara, "those conversations ing on the table." Senator John Borkowski, pro­care. and understanding." still go on." 

Senate 
"That's what I'm open to fessor of psychology, offered to Borkowski told O'Hara to Associate Professor of history 
continued from page 1 
the Spring of 1992, is "inconsis­tent with official Church teach­ing," according to O'Hara. 
In response to this aspect of O'Hara's letter. Blandford, who spoke at Pangborn Hall Monday night, said the statement was "taken out of context." 
According to O'Hara, who said she is "the last voice on recognition issues," she looked at the entire ten-page applica­tion "as a whole" and that its "philosophical inconsistency" was what made her decide against granting recognition to GI.ND/SMC. 
"I made the decision with the consultation of my staff." she said. 
As "a broader issue," O'Hara mentioned her concern of how "we can enhance our efforts to meet the needs of our gay and lesbian students." This broad­er question includes allowing homosexual students to "come together in a manner still con­summate to Church teaching." 
O'Hara mentioned that the committee she proposed in her letter, would serve to give her advice "about that broader issue." 
Before she responded to questions from the floor, O'Hara mentioned that her decision to form a committee may not be what everyone wants, but it is "a way of mov­ing forward." 
Associate Professor of theolo­gy Jean Porter said it seems that O'Hara's committee is "a task force that is being told what conclusions it should reach before it reaches them." Porter suggested to O'Hara that .:;he give the committee a man­date to leave individuals an "openness" to deal with the issue of homosexuality on their own. 
O'Hara responded that she "put mechanisms" into her for­mation of the committee that 
B.nd so it mas said That on the @rand & @lolious fjighth & flxtra Da.~ @od did ind red crrarr Bm To krrp the Irish from Qonqumng thr U]orld 
right now," she said. 

When O'Hara was asked by Richard Sheehan, professor of finance, to respond to the fact that other Catholic universities have recognized gay and les­bian groups, she said that in dealing with an issue concern­ing homosexuality at a Catholic institution. one must look at the "particular milieu" and the "particular organization in front of it." 
O'Hara. also added that insti­tutions, such as Boston College, Georgetown, Loyola of Chicago, Loyola-Marymount, Providence, and Saint John's, are "equally divided" on the issue of recog­nizing homosexual student groups, which involves the group's use of facilities, fund­ing, and the sponsorship of the Senate his story of how homosexuality exists at Notre Dame. Borkowski said he thought that very few people who are homosexual apply to Notre Dame, considering they know the type of Catholic envi­ronment Notre Dame is. Most undergraduate homosexuals who are here, according to Borkowski, come here not understanding their homosexu­ality. "We have not supported their coming to grips with their homosexuality," Borkowski said, and he asked, "Where do they turn for help?" 
Borkowski said that students will not turn to Campus Ministry because it may provide a position that is "traditional" and "unnatural" for them. "They will turn to other stu­"change this silly position your office is taking," and he said it seemed as if she were "search­ing for reasons to deny recogni­tion" to GLND/SMC. 
"Saying recognition is totally 'off the table' perpetuates the problem," Borkowski said. 
O'Hara responded, "In my heart of hearts, I don't believe we can grant recognition to a group that is philosophically inconsistent with the Catholic teaching." 
O'Hara said that Campus Ministry cannot be completely taken "off the table," especially since there is flexibility in the conversations between students and members of Campus Ministry. When students recog­nize their homosexuality in these conversations, according Kathleen Biddick questioned O'Hara on how "crucial" the issue of chastity was to her argument. 
O'Hara responded that chastity was not the basis of her decision. She restated that she found "what the group believes is acceptable behavior" to be "philosophically inconsis­tent." . 
Bill Eagan, an Emeritus Faculty member and professor of management, asked O'Hara, "How does the administration decide which Church doctrines to enforce?" 
According to O'Hara. these doctrines include the "moral teachings of the Church, the communal aspects of the com­munity, and the behavioral aspects of the students." 

Wednesday, March 8, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
UN courts not always used Homosexual programs 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
Nt-ws Writer 
"The principal judicial organ of the United Nations" was dis­eussed by a Columbia Law pro­fessor yesterday at the llesburgh Center for International Peace Studies. 
The College of Arts and Letters sponsered the lecture by Lori Fisler-Damrosch of Columbia University Law School. Professor Fisler­Damrosch's particular area of expertise is International Law. 
The title of her lecture was "The Hole of International C.ourts in the Control of Violence". The international courts she mentioned were the International Court of the .Justice (whieh she described as "lhe principle judicial organ of lhe United Nations"), and indi­vidual tribunals that are con­vened by the United Nations for the purpose of evaluating spe­l'ific transgressions. 
The ICJ is made up of fifteen judges from different countries. The jurisdiction of the ICJ is "limited to disputes between states on the basis of their con­sent and to requests for adviso­ry opinions that can be made hy certain UN organs". 
This limits the capability of the court to control violence hPcause it can only mediate when a member state asks it to. Another limitation is that the cases that are brought to the ICJ are most often after the fact. 
Two types of cases regarding riPadly connict are brought to Ihe attention of the ICJ: border disputes and cases which hope In avoid disputes over norma­tive principles. 
In boundary disputes, "the court may be asked to deter­mine authoritatively and with finality a boundary dispute between countries that other­wise would be tempted to fight, or might even actually be fight­ing over the territory in ques­tion" Fisler-Damrosch said. 
An example of this was a recent border dispute over a strip of land between Libya and Chad. The ICJ awarded the territory to Chad and a peace­keeping force that was sent to moniter the progress of the res­olution. It was finished in a record forty days. 
The normative cases that are brought to light are usually "treaty violations or apparent acts of aggression. One such case is "the genocide case initi­ated by the Republic of Bosnia­Herzogovinia against the Federal Republics of Yugoslavia, Serbia, and Montenegro". This case requested United Nations sanc­tions against those three republics for alleged acts of genocide and has yet to be ruled upon. 
The ICJ's decisions are backed up by the muscle of United Nations Security Council sanctions. These are the actions that the International Court of Justice takes in the interest of stopping violence. 
The other type of interna­tional court that can be used to control violence is an individual tribunal convened for a specific purpose. Such tribunals are generally convened in the case of war crimes and intrastate crimes against human rights. 
For example, tribunals of this sort have been set up to investi­gate the crimes in Rwanda and 

CLASS RETREAT 

FRIDAY, MARCH 24TH ~ SATURDAY MARCH 25TH 
SIGN UP IN THE DINING HALLS TUESDAY AND THURSDAY EVENING 
QUESTIONS? CALL 631..5136 

Yugoslavia in recent years. They are not as limited as the ICJ in that they can issue inter­national arrest warrants for individuals involved in the case. However, these tribunals are indeed limited in that they can only imprison criminals or ask for recompense. They cannot however sentence criminals to death. 
Consequently, some countries that have the death penalty as an option for war criminals may actually prefer to try such criminals in their own coun­tries and not have to bother with a higher court. Thus the same problem that plagues the ICJ limits the seperate tri­bunals. Lack of participation by the members of the interna­tional community, for one rea­son or another, often destroys the preventive ability of the courts. 
Professor Fisler-Damrosch suggests that in light of other possibilities the only viable option is to move through the ICJ and small tribunals to a "standing criminal court" for international issues. This court provides a "neutral forum available for prosecution of acts of terrorism" and help for alleged terrorists to "get a fair trial". She believes a strong international court, for the pur­pose of controlling violence through deterrance, is obtain­able in the next two or three decades. 
Fisler-Damrosch was the Special Assitant Legal Advisor to the State Department from 1977 to 1981. As a professor of law at Columbia University, she has written numerous books and articles on the subject of International Law. 

criticized by Gingrich 
By JOHN DIAMOND 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
A day after his lesbian sister lobbied Capitol Hill on gay rights, House Speaker Newt 
Gingrich crit­icized school programs that portray homosex­uality favor­ably, particu­larly any using "active 

homosexual-Gingrich s" to counsel teen-agers. 
Speaking Tuesday at his daily news conference, Gingrich said some school programs offered to counter discrimination give homosexuals a forum for pro­moting their way of life. 
"I don't think we want people out with 'Heather Has Two Mommies,' in first grade ex­plaining that homosexuality is a reasonable alternative in lifestyle," Gingrich said. 
The book he mentioned, by Leslea Newman, is a story about lesbian parents. It was second on the American Li­brary Association's 1994 list of books people tried to ban. 
Gingrich's concern was not limited to the primary grades. 
"You have had, clearly, ex­amples of what is in effect re­cruitment in so-called counsel­ing programs," Gingrich said. "So I'm very cautious about the idea that you want to have ac­tive homosexuals in junior high school and high school explain­ing to young people that they have all these various wonder­ful options." 
AI Ferreira, director of the Cambridge, Mass., public schools' Project Ten-East, a counseling and education pro­gram that focuses on homosex­uality, rejected Gingrich's as­sertions. 
"I would hope that people wouldn't comment on a topic they obviously know nothing about," Ferreira said. "When you hear political leaders mak­ing such hate-filled comments, that's really scary." 
Ferreira said of his program, "No, it's not Homosexuality 101." Rather, the program pro­vides counseling for gay teens facing animosity in their fami­lies or among friends, and includes presentations to class­es "working toward an open and affirming learning environ­ment for all children, regard­less of their sexual orien­tation." 
But Kristi Hamrick of the Family Research Council, a Washington-based public policy organization, said Gingrich "speaks with the vast majority of Americans" on the issue of homosexuality. 
"We have seen some school curriculum such as Project Ten put forward with the goal of giving children very harmful and false messages about ho­mosexuality and encouraging them to explore that lifestyle," Hamrick said. "It's presented in a neutral way in a laundry list of sexual options." 
Gingrich's comments came a day after he met with his les­bian half-sister, Candace Gin­grich, who had come to the Capitol to lobby. 


Judge rules for one set of standards 
By SHELIA HARD WELL 
Associated Press 
OXFORD 

Mississippi cannot close ei­ther a mostly black university or a mostly white women's uni­versity to claim it has ended its racially segregated system of higher education, a federal judge ruled Tuesday. 
Instead, the state must estab­lish one set of admissions stan­dards for all eight of its univer­sities, U.S. District Judge Neal Biggers ruled. They now vary from school to school, with less stringent requirements at the black institutions. 
Furthermore, the state must redistribute many of its higher education programs, particu­larly on the graduate level, and spend about $30 million to beef up the mostly black schools. 
His ruling came in a 1975 lawsuit accusing Mississippi of maintaining separate higher education systems for blacks and whites and seeking more money and better programs for historically black universities. The U.S. Justice Department, long critical of Mississippi's educational system, joined the case. 
Biggers ruled in 1987 that the state had done enough, but the 
U.S. Supreme Court disagreed in 1992 and ordered Mississippi to remove all vestiges of the dual system, calling the pre­dominantly black institutions educationally inferior and under funded. 
Plaintiffs' lawyer Alvin Chambliss said Biggers' ruling leaves "room for negotiation and improvement." 
Higher Education 

PERSONAL ASSISTAN"'Tl 
PRESIDENT OF GROWING COMPANY SEEKING AN ENERGETIC, CHRISTIAN INDNIDUAL FOR FULL TIME POSITION OF PERSONAL ASSISTANT. INDNIDVAL SHOULD HAVE DEGREE OR EQVNALENT EXPERIENCE IN THE FOLLOWING AREAS: 
*LIBRARY SCIENCE *PHYSICAL FITNESS *VEGETARIAN COOKING 

SALARY IS NEGOTIABLE. PLEASE SEND YOUR RESUME TO 
D.W. WALLCOVERING 514 W. MILL STREET (18TH RD.) 
CULVER, INDIANA 46511 ATT: CHRISTINA BALABAN 
Commissioner Ray Cleere de­clined to comment until the College Board reviews Biggers' decision. 
In 1992, the high court told Biggers to address four issues: admissions, duplication of pro­grams, missions, and the num­ber of schools. 
To the dismay of students and advocates of black colleges and universities, the state respond­ed with a plan to shut down one of its three historically black schools -Mississippi Valley State -and merge its 2,300 students into nearby Delta State, one of five historically white schools. It also proposed merging the mostly white Mississippi University for Women with mostly white Mississippi State University. 
The state can close either school for fiscal or other rea­sons, but not as part of its desegregation plan, Biggers said Tuesday, directing the state to seek ways to desegre­gate Mississippi Valley. 
The plaintiffs asked for a sep­arate board to govern the black universities and automatic admissions to professional schools for graduates of black colleges, but Biggers did not address that in Tuesday's rul­ing. 
Biggers refused the plaintiffs' request for predominantly black Jackson State University to take over the University of Mississippi Medical Center, the state's only program for train­ing doctors. 
He said the College Board's argument that such a move would not, by itself, increase the number of black doctors in the state was persuasive. 
Instead, Jackson State will share administration of an allied health program at the center. 

page 8 The Observer. INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, March 8, 1995 
United Nations debates global living standards 
The first lady's motorcade 
care and more jobs for the ru­

Progress slows Mrs. Clinton sped through the city center 
ral poor. 
.

among cyclists on a sunny but But a caucus of 132 pooreraddresses cold spring afternoon. She vis­
as Issues 
nations on Tuesday all but 

ited Copenhagen's most exclu­ruled out overall targets for
delegation toughen
sive stores selling porcelain and anti-poverty spending. 
silverware and lunched with 
The proposal to call upon na­ByMATTIHUUHTANEN By THOMAS GINSBERG 

Prime Minister Poul Nyrup 
tions to set a target of 20 per­

countries are attending a ····••

Associated Press Associated Press 
Rasmussen and his wife. 
summit in Copenhagen to develop plans to: 
cent of domestic spending for 
social welfare ran aground
& Eradicate unemployment
COPENHAGEN COPENHAGEN

At the day-care center, the when several delegates·resisted 
6Attackpoverty
Hillary Rodham Clinton 
Discord over money, and howchildren's faces were painted any conditions on aid money,urged rich nations Tuesday to 

to spend it, stalled progresswith American and Danish 

6 Alleviate social inequalnies 
said Venezuela's minister ofspend less on weapons, more Tuesday at a summit on pover­flags. Their parents engaged in family, Mercedes Pulido de on people ty as delegates jostled overa lively discussion of child-rear­

1994 total global population 
Briceno. 

ways to raise global living stan­and to take 
ing problems with Mrs. Clinton. 
5.3 billion people 
Delegates said the idea still 

more time 
dards.

"This is an exciting day for could be preserved in principle 
-l[jln~lll' workforce: 

After two days of the U.N.with their us," said Karen, a 9-year-old 
but would be limited to bilater­

2.8bllllonchildren. 
World Summit for Social Devel­girl who spends an hour every 

al agreements. That means
(people capable

In a stop at 
opment, delegates were still

day at the state-run center. 
countries would be left to work
of working)

a day-care 
trying to work out provisions"The U.S. president's wife is 

out spending goals on their

center, she 
on foreign aid, debt relief and great." 
own, without accounting to the

told parents 
education funding. _But Mrs. Clinton's speech at 

Global workforce 
United Nations. 
Clinton

that a U.N. 
The issues were among the

the summit did not seem to 
Still, some U.N. officials said
700mllllon

poverty sum-most contentious at the sum­make up for President Clinton's the fact that the idea was alive
underemployed

mit in Copenhagen was aimed mit, the first attempt to reach
absence, which has com­
(Working at tasks 
could be considered an

at improving social conditions. 
global consensus on fighting

pounded a feeling of futility at 
that do not allow 
achievement.
them to make 
poverty. and unemployment.

the week-long meeting. The 
"We still consider it impor­
ends meet)

"But the whole point of doing Nearly 9,000 delegates fromchief U.S. representative will be 
tant, it's a departure point,"that is to have stronger rela­

183 nations flowed through theVice President AI Gore instead. 

said Jean-Claude Faby, director tionships with other people and sprawling convention center,The United States and other of policy coordination at the

* • • • • 

stronger family structures," making a central hall look
wealthy nations are considering U.N. office on sustainable de­Mrs. Clinton said, sipping a cup more like an international train cuts in foreign aid, leaving the velopment.




nnnnn

of coffee. 
station than a summit meeting. 

summit to focus on what gov­The session was haunted by
eOne in five people in the wo~d live on

"I do think that both mothers Piles of colorful brochures,ernments and aid groups can other money issues, such as
just $1 aday.

and fathers have to work out posters and booklets were scat­do on their own. Most propos­
whether rich countries and

how to spend more time with & Forty-seven children are bom into tered in corridors, forming anals for action by rich countries 
banks will write off Third

their children." poverty every minute. 
obstacle course of issues -lit­have been watered down. 
World debt. Negotiations on theEarlier, Mrs. Clinton told del­* * t erally and figuratively -forMrs. Clinton used the forum & More than two-thirds issue bogged down Tuesdayegates at the 183-nation pover­to promote the Clinton adminis­of the wo~·s poor are I& ~ • delegates and journalists at the morning.

ty summit that countries were tration's drive to extend the women. U U IJ week long session. 
Officials from the United Na­wasting money on "weapons of The summit is supposed to

nuclear Non-Proliferation Source: Un~ed Nations APfTerry Kola tions, the United States and 
mass destruction ... and doing Treaty, signed by 172 nations. hammer out a final document other countries said they hadviolence to basic human rights. the acquisition of nuclear arms,
Several countries that have not to be signed Sunday by nearly no information about any coun­
"This forum is about putting is the way to make their soci­
signed the treaty are at the 120 national leaders, including 
try or lender planning to an­people first. And putting people eties stronger," Mrs. Clinton Vice President AI Gore, German 

conference. nounce debt relief at the sum­
first requires realistic, work­Some non-nuclear powers said. Chancellor Helmut Kohl and mit.able solutions to complex prob­oppose extending the agree­She urged special considera­more than 100 other leaders. 
Denmark, the host country,

lems," she said. tion for women and children,
ment, which they say gives nu­Agreement has been reached tried to set an example last
The Clinton administration pointing out that two-thirds of
clear powers a monopoly. on calls for equal rights for 
week by canceling $166 million 

has proposed a 1996 military "All nations will have to real­the illiterate people in the women, better education for in loans owed by six Africanbudget of $246 billion. ize that investing in people, not world are female. girls, improved access to health and Latin American countries . 


Wednesday, March 8, 1995 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Barings' trader faces forgery charges 
lNG Group takes control of Barings 
Deal in brief ~ 
-Purchased Barings BARINGS I International tor 1pound ($1.65) Nederlanden Groep NV was created in amerger of Nationale
• 
Took on all Barings' assets 

and liabilities Nederlanden insurance group and the NMB-Postbank Group banking

• 
Retained the firm's 4,000 


group March 4,1991.

employees I Traces its banking roots back
• 
Will continue using the name 

Barings 150 years 

• 
Hopes to resume business I Employs 47,000 people within days 


mRepresented in more than 50 II Beat out ajoint bid from countries Dutch rival ABN Amro and U.S. 
I Based in Amsterdam'·· investment bank Smith Barney 

4l~~li'Rf$?&\~; · 

APNJm. J. Castello 
JMB 

"Bo" 

HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY 
Love, 
Mom and Dad 




Be the one 


who brings the fun 
to Notre Dame. 
Bring the best speakers, the funniest comedians and the most popular entertainers to campus ...and get paid for it. 
Three positions for programming assistants 
are available for 1995-1996 to students with leadership ability and creative ideas who want to improve student life by planning campus-wide events. 
Pick up an application in the Student Activities Office (315 LaFortune) and return it by Friday, March lOth. 
Interviews will be conducted March 23rd and March 24th so sign up for an interview 
By LAURINO A KEYS 
Associated Press 
FRANKFURT 

A trader blamed in the col­lapse of Barings bank practiced signing the name of a Wall Street executive in order to commit forgery, Singapore au­thorities say. 
Trader Nick Leeson, blamed for placing futures bets that bankrupted Barings at a cost of $1.4 billion, is in custody in Germany fighting extradition to Singapore to face forgery charges. 
Leeson, 28, was detained March 2 at Frankfurt In­ternational Airport on a flight from Malaysia following the collapse of Baring Brothers and Co. The British investment bank has since been bought by the Dutch financial institution lNG Group. 
The Singapore complaint accuses Leeson of forging two documents. One showed that Barings Futures received $74 million from one of Wall Street's biggest trading firms, and the other said the money was in Barings' account. 
Frankfurt prosecutor Hans­Hermann Eckert showed the complaint to reporters Tuesday. 
One allegedly forged docu­ments, Singapore authorities said, is a letter purporting to be from the New York trading firm Spear Leeds and Kellogg, con­firming it was paying for a trading contract. 
The other allegedly forged document was said to be a con­firmation by Citibank in Singapore that Barings Futures had the money. 
"It is established from 
Citibank officers that the Citibank payment in confirma­tion summary dated 2 Feb. 1995 had definitely been forged," said the complaint, sent with an arrest warrant is­sued by Singapore court Judge Chew Siong Tai David. 
The Singapore complaint also said "Barings officials found documents in the office of Nick which showed that the confir­mation allegedly sent by Spear Leeds and Kellogg was manu­factured in Nick's office. 
"He had apparently been practicing the signature of Richard Hogan, the managing director of Spear Leeds and Kellogg." 
Hogan, contacted Monday in New York, declined comment. 
The complaint then says Leeson gave the allegedly forged documents to Rachel Yong, an officer of Barings in Singapore, "who subsequently handed them to the auditors, Coopers and Lybrand on 3 Feb. 1995, for the purpose of obtain­ing provisional audit clearance of Barings Futures' financial statement for the year ended 31 Dec. 1994." 
Eckert said it was impossible to tell from the copies that he had whether Hogan's signature was forged. 
"One has to see the original and that is in Singapore," he said. 
Singaporian authorities have until May 2 to provide docu­mentation of their charge that Leeson committed "forgery with intent to commit fraud." They then they must persuade a court, and the German feder­al government, to honor their extradition request. 
If you see news, call The Observer 631-5323. 

CHAMBER SINGERS 
Nancy Menk, Conductor present 
BRAVA! 
Music ofWomen Composers 
Friday, March 10, 8 p.m. Little Theatre 
Tickets $8* This concert will be interpreted in American Sign Language 
•Discounts for campus community members, senior citizens, students and groups. Call or visit box office for details. Tickets on sale at 
Wilh--~olltw 
ln!MnaAI'IIlConwniulonMd 
NaloolwiE~Iotlht;AI'IIl
the Saint Mary's box office, located In O'Laughlin 
Auditorium, open 9-S Monday-Friday. Discover, 
Visa, MasterCard at 219/284-4626. 
Canada involved in dispute 
Associated Press 
ST. JOHN'S 
Fishing boats from Spain and Portugal stopped casting nets for turbot Tuesday, throwing water on a smoldering dispute over European access to the fish on the Grand Banks off Newfoundland. 
Earlier in the day, Canada and Spain had set their navy ships on a collision course in the North Atlantic to defend their fishing fleets' rights, and Canadian and European Union officials vowed to stand their ground. 
The Canadian Broadcasting Corporation reported Tuesday that a destroyer, the Terra Nova, headed out to sea to await further orders. 
In Madrid, a government spokesman said Spain was sending a navy patrol ship to accompany the Spanish fishing fleet. 
"I hope now is the moment for dialogue," said Canada's Fisheries Minister, Brian To­bin. 
By late Tuesday, about 39 Spanish boats had left a dis­puted area about 230 miles east of Newfoundland. A dozen Portuguese ships also stopped fishing but were holding their positions on the Grand Banks. 
The latest dispute began Fri­day when Canada threatened to board European ships to en­force international quotas for turbot, a flatfish Americans encounter most frequently in fish sticks. 
Canada and the European Union have been battling over their shares of turbot in inter­national waters outside Canada's 200-mile territorial limit. 
Until last September, the tur­bot catch was unregulated. But fishing fleets hit hard by the loss of cod and other Atlantic fish have set their sights on turbot, called Greenland hal­ibut in Europe. 


when you turn in your application. 



/'\ORfftU CtnHR 
Questions? 
fOR lltt <f1 R T S 

Call Gayle Spencer at 631-7308 

~-------­

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 
THE OBSERVER 

NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 

News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Spans Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. ] acqueline Moser Accent Editor ........... , ............. Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Eiizabeth Regan Controller ..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is rhe independenr newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre name du Lac and Saint Mary's College. h does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­rion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­rnriJis represenr the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Ediwr, News Editor, l'iewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those ..r The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­municy and to all readers. The free expression of vazying opinions through lerrers is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 63I-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 1 \ccent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 11ay Editor /Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.l@nd.edu I ;<'nerallnformation 631-7471 Unix observer®boron.he1ios.nd.edu 
Wednesday, March 8, 1995 



O.J. trial gives 'em something to talk about 
When I think of those who are closest tn me, I am impressed with what a diverse group of people they are. In some instances. I wonder how we ever became friends; it seems that we have vPry little or perhaps nothing in com­mon. In each case, however, I can trace th~ beginning of the relationship to a conversation on a topic that we both could relate to; something we could dis­rn<;s without letting our differences get i11 the way of our communication. But it i·: sometimes difficult to find a common 

Kirsten Dunne 
t,round with other people, and I think this is unfortunate. Based on my own experiences, I believe that an inability to rnmmunicate with people different from ourselves might deprive us of some of the best friends we might find. 
n~cently. a Los Angeles-based psy­l'lwlogist, Robert Butterworth, compiled a questionnaire for people to take if they were concerned that they were becom­ing obsessed with the Simpson case. .\!though I am no one to make fun of 
0 ..1. "addicts", as a person who has been diagnosed with obsessive-compulsive .:i•;nrder herself. I would have to seri­
•·llsly wonder about those responding ".,.~s" to some of these questions. For example, one question is whether your productivity at work has slipped as a r' ·mlt of monitoring the trial. Another flllestion asks whether you daydream 11 hout the case when involved in some 1 'her activity. Yet another query is 1 l,ether you have missed meals, sleep, or social events because you could not trar yourself from the television. Someone who answers such questions nnirmatively. with all due respect, might need real help. 
However, keeping up with the trial events in, moderation would not seem to me to be a problem. In fact, putting aside for the moment my bias ft.gainst media involvement in the judicial sys­tem, I would even argue that it is good to catch a few minutes of the trial dur­ing lunch or to watch the recaps at night. I say this because the O.J. trial is something that seems to be of at least some interest to everyone. Therefore, following its coverage might give us something to talk about with people of diverse backgrounds-and for those of us who have not become obsessed with it (another of Butterworth's questions is whether we argue with our friends about the case). it may have less ten­dency to move us to fighting about our differences than issues like abortion or capital punishment. Butterworth himself commented that people become so entangled in the case because it has "something for everyone." And indeed it offers a wide panoply, involving a as it does sex, violence, and celebrities all at once. It is a combination of a murder mystery, a soap opera and a horror film. It is true. and as such it is inherently much more captivating than the made­up and often unbelievable plots of soap operas. And perhaps most importantly, a wide range of issues are involved in the case, at least one of which is almost guaranteed to capture any given per­son's attention. There are issues of wife­beating, of interracial marriages, of police misconduct, and more. Not least of all, the case involves one of the most prominent football heroes of our time. In short, the case has the potential to appeal to an extremely diverse group of people. 
As such, the Simpson coverage gives people from completely different back­grounds something they can share. In­deed, I have noticed that my conversa­tions with mere acquaintances have become richer when we discuss the trial, and I have even chatted with com­plete strangers about the case. I admit that, for me, talking to strangers is not rare-I will talk to almost anyone. But the Simpson case seems to give added depth to such interactions. 

And if the coverage of O.J. 's case can facilitate communication between virtu­al strangers, it has even greater poten­tial to bring us closer together with friends and family members. As Chicago Tribune columnist Clarence Page recently observed, society has become more fragmented as more television and cable channels have become available­channels which cater to just about every interest imaginable. We have QVC, for home shoppers, we have Lifetime, which often advertises its features as "televi­sion for women"; we have video chan­nels, which cater primarily to teenagers. and we have the Weather Channel. for those of us who just can't get enough meteorology. While this specialization of the networks is good in that it provides enhanced entertainment for various types of people, it does impede communication. For it means that, in more instances, different types of people will have less to talk about with each other. In other words, it limits our abili­ty to make friends. 
In this sense, the coverage of O.J.'s trial is a positive thing. If we keep up with the trial, we will have at least one thing in common with millions of other people. We will have a way to start a conversation with someone when thw-e may not be anything else we could dis­cuss with him or her. As Page put it, "American society craves something like the Simpson trial and its wall-to-wall coverage as we become more frag­mented, less connected to our neighbors or even to our own family members than we used to be. It gives us something in common to get excited about and talk to each other about without fighting, the way discussions of religion and politics (make us fight)." Viewed from this per­spective. keeping abreast of the events in the Simpson trial might both strengthen our existing relationships and help us form new ones by creating a line of communication where perhaps none existed before. And despite all the tragedy involved in the Simpson case. I would argue that this is at least one pos­itive thing we can say about the whole 
matter. 
Butterworth posits that "maybe televi­sion executions will be next." At this juncture he loses me, for several rea­sons, which I will not go into here. But as long as we stick to the Simpson trial, I think we'll be doing just fine. 
Kirsten Dunne is a third year law stu­dent. 



''you will see something 
new. Two things. And I call them Thing One and Thing Two." 
-Dr.Seuss 

r----~---------~-------~-------------­
VIEWPOINT
Wednesday, March 8, 1995 page 11 
-
• 
Troop ND dances across racial barrier 
Dear Editor: that the campus has to offer, and like which many of our club members come. 
The past few days have brought a any other TND event, to spread multi­On a campus where minorities make rwgative reaction towards a certain act culturalism. I deeply regret that the con­up such a small percentage of the stu­performed by the Humor Artists. As Co­tent of the Humor Artists' act was over­dent body, there is a very fine line l'rnsident of TND and one of the produc­looked during screenings prior to the between racial humor and racial stereo­ers of the show, I would like to help alle­show, and I can assure you that none of typing or prejudice. viatn the tension and apologize to the the views of the Humor Artists are those Those of us who are here at Notre Notre Dame community and especially of Troop Notre Dame or the TND com­Dame representing our respective race the Latino Community that was offended munity. or nationality are very proud and by tlw act. The act under scrutiny por­Troop Notre Dame is known as one of expressive when it comes to culturn. At traynd two Latinos as maintenance men the most diverse clubs on campus, and the same time, we are also very Sl•nsi­who could neither speak English nor many of our supporters are of the Latino tive to anything that feels like an attack aclc~quately respond to an English speak­community. The fact that our perform­on or offense to our differences in ing person. making them look in­ing group consists of five Filipinos, five appearance, mannerisms, and/or cul­c·cllnpetent and incapable. I realize the Latin Americans, two African tures. It is a very sensitive subject on fac~t that it was done with comedic inten­Americans, and three Caucasians, is evi­both sides of the racial barrier, and only tions, but I don't feel as if it was an dence that our group has a global make­cooperation from everyone at Notre appropriate act in our show. up. The purpose of the group, our Dame will facilitate the handling of this 
Our Campus Wide Talent Show was dances, and everything we do, is to issue. asscmbll~d to bring the campus together show the urban side of the campus and EMILEEDORA by displaying the spectrum of talents spotlight the diverse backgrounds from Co-President ofTroop Notre Dame 


Campus Republicans defend administration 
Dear Editor: the student body under that second is to generate discus­Bible, and of Du Lac. There is gay and lesbian and we have 
It is apparent that administration are to exactly sion about the issues within no promotion of celibacy this irrational fear of homo­(;J.ND/SMC and a fair amount follow the rules and charters and throughout the club. The among homosexuals by sexuals. We oppose because it of the student body and faculty of the Catholic Church, of third is to promote the beliefs GLND/SMC. There is no con­is our conviction that have missed the point entirely which the administration lays that the club pursues upon demnation of sexual activity by GLND/SMC, however indiscreet about the administration's out clearly in Du Lac. This is prior didactic discourse. It is GLND/SMC. This is exactly why and subtle, promotes values decision to not recognize undisputed. It is further to the third ambition of part of the ambition of that are contrary to the CI.ND/SMC as a legitimate note that the only way for one GLND/SMC that needs to be GLND/SMC is in direct opposi­church, the administration, elub. In the midst of their con­to be Catholic and homosexual addressed more clearly. tion with the administration. and the standards set forth by fusion of the issue. they have is to be celibate. This is also Nowhere in the constitu­Certainly education and dis­DuLac. labeled those opposing the undisputed. If one professes tions. either formerly or cussion about sexuality is not If there was controversy and rf\cognition of GLND/SMC as that he or she is a homosexu­presently, did GLND/SMC con­counter to Du Lac ... unless it discrepancy about the con­"lwartlcss and insensitive", al, the church considers this demn any type of homosexual promotes something counter stitution and activity of a pro­"homophobes". and our per­"morally neutral." activity. The closest they came to it. So if GLND/SMC believes adultery, or pro-choice club, sonal favorite, "arian-nazi's." The University of Notre was that they did not "con­that homosexual activity is not they both would fall under the 
It seems that only the propo­Dame, then, has clearly out­demn or condone any type of condemnable, marking it as same scrutiny. This is an issue rwnts of GLND/SMC are vastly lined the moral and ethical activity between homosexu­legitimate and moral practice, about following rules and stan­open-minded. and the rest of standards that it wishes its als", which is to say that and it refuses to discourage dards, not about homophobia. us-those against the legitima­community to abide by, to fol­GLND/SMC is indifferent about homosexual activity, it then is c~y of GLND/SMC-are tunnel­low, and to promote. So here the homosexual activities of its a discerning promotion of that visioned. misguided, is the point that needs to be members. type of activity. r: JAY TOWN protectionist, self-righteous. made dear (proponents pay To be sure, the University Those who oppose the legiti­Pres idem ignorant fascists. Well, to clear attention). The ambition of any and the Church are not indif­mation of GLND/SMC (we CHRIS SEIDENSTICKER up this misconception, let us club is threefold. The first to ferent. It is quite clear that any speak especially for the Vice President make it clear. educate members and non­type of homosexual activity is College Republicans and the Notre Dame College Republicans 
We arc at a private Catholic members (about whatever the considered counter to the administration) do not oppose school. The administration and club's issue/purpose is). The beliefs of the church, of the GLND/SMC because they are 

Different folks, different strokes 
Ocar Editor: 
I have been following with interest the debate over !'Jotre Dame's stance towards homosexual organiza­1ions. As an undergraduate I attended Williams College, and I think my experience with these issues lhert~ might be relevant to the current debate. 
For those advocating acceptance of homosexuality, \Villiams was a dream come true. The Bisexual Gay Bisexual Gay Lesbian Union with pictures of peoplel.esbian Union had the unwavering support of the engaged in various forms of homosexual intercourse.
administration, College Council funding, its own 
My senior year a lesbian student got into a fight atbuilding to mflet in, and overwhelming support from the local pub with someone (not a student) who spoke the student body. The Chaplain's ollice was unequiv­slightingly of her sexual orientation, poured beer onocal in its support of homosexuality. Those misguided the bartender when he told her to leave the establish­enough to suggest that the homosexual lifestyle was ment, and then assaulted a police oflicer who stoppedless than optimal were immediately pilloried by the her to find out why she was violently kicking a store­
entire college community. Anything approaching 
front.

harassment of homosexuals was grounds for immedi­I don't pretend to explain this phenomenon. Andate removal from the college. (A good friend of mine clearly this history does not in itself resolve the ques­
was suspended indefinitely for impersonating a tion of whether or not homosexual organizations
known homosexual and jokingly asking a heterosexu­
should be recognized here at Notre Dame. But I
al hockey player out on a date.) Everything possible would suggest that those of you who are undecidedwas done to welcome homosexuals; my freshman on this issue should take a long hard look at the re­yc1ar the collnge abolished "Screw Your Hoommate" sults (in my college and others) of granting officialdances (in which roommates got blind dates for each recognition to homosexual organizations. For I amotlwr) bncause this might make homosexuals uncom­quite confident that the state of affairs at Williams is fortahln. 
not one that most at Notre Dame would find conge­Ynt this comprehensively accepting environment nial.
did not result in the blissful integration of homosexu­According to the teaching of the Church, the tradi­als into thn college community. If anything, the oppo­tions of Christianity. and the explicit statements of-;itn took place. Ilomosexuals routinely (and with the the Bible, homosexual acts cannot be condoned. Wetadt pc~rrnission of thn Dean's office) vandalized side­are of course called to love everyone, homosexuals
walks and buildings with obscene grafriti. (This 
included, always remembering that each and everyincluded our chapel; the chaplain approvingly likened one of us are sinners saved only by the grace of God.
this to Martin Luther nailing his ninety-five theses on But loving homosexuals does not mean condoninglhe chureh door.) During "Queer Pride Week" homo­their sin, recognizing their organization, or workingsexuals would "come out" in the Daily Advisor (a sort to establish at Notre Dame the environment I experi­
of all campus newsletter) with sexually explicit 
enced at Williams.
deseriptions of the sorts of behavior they were inter­l'sted in pursuing. In the student union (a place JASON WRIGHTwhere anyone, including children, could frequent) 
Philosophy Graduate Student 

tlwre was for some time a display advertising the 
The last straw ... 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing to thank The Observer for printing Charles Roth's enlightening column, "An Open Letter to Tom Dooley ... " (March 3, 1995). I was both amazed by and envious of Mr. Roth's ability to act as a mouthpiece not only for a man who has been dead almost thirty-five years now, but for God himself. More important, perhaps, than the awe I feel for Mr. Roth is the fact that, after read­ing his editorial, I was finally moved to take action in the GLND/SMC debate. 
As a rather self-conscious member of the straight community at Notre Dame, I have been a bit slow to demonstrate my feelings com:erning GLND/SMC (admittedly, out of an Immature and misguided fear of being mistaken for a member of the organization, rather than seen as one of its supporters). Yet, after the excruciating few min­utes it took me to read and absorb a pageful of Mr. Roth's pontil1cation, I felt the need to do some­thing. For what could I do, after subjecting myself to such a high-handed, self-righteous display, than to promptly atl'ix a pink triangle to my door and a purple ribbon to my backpack? 
And I will not. I can assure you, be missing any more GLND/SMC rallies. It may not be much, but it sure feels like a pretty good start. And I am con­fident that if drivel of the sort offered by Mr. Roth is really all the "other" side has to ofl'er, there is no possible way that GLND/SMC can lose. 
Although I found it so very charitable of Mr. Hoth to share with us his conviction that God has proba­bly forgiven homosexuals (including Dr. Dooley himself, thank heavens) for their sins, I share his apprehension over whether "the rest of us" wlll bH forgiven. And in his concern for the state ol' his own soul, I hope Mr. Roth will remember one thing: according to the Church, sexual orientation is not a sin. However, blatant discrimination and excessive pride are. 
LAURIE GILBERT 
Senior 
Walsh Hall 


-
ACC~NT 
page 12 Wednesday, March 8, 1995 
Charlie King, Travelin Troubador 
By KRISTA NANNERY tertain," said King. "That's Accent Editor why I'm able to make a living at 
this. People who come to the 
concert are not going to get my 
C
harlie King is a member political perspective on the 
of a dying breed of world. They're going to get a 
American performers-series of stories that are funny he is an award winning folk or touching or entertaining." singer and a gifted story-teller and a weaver of magic as well. Many of Kings' songs carry a His entertaining musical style social message, perhaps a re­invites sing-a-longs, and at the sult of his involvement in the same time, holds important Catholic Worker Movement and messages for generations to of his concerned involvement in rome. He writes politically and Vietnam protests. And al­socially topical songs with lyrics though each song may be subtly like, "Is this a western? intertwined with a call for Randitos stole our canaV Did action, his music does not take you say Ollie North? Spittin' on an overbearing and preach­image of John Wayne, my old ing tone. He incoporates con­paV Was that Grenada or the temporary subjects with a folk­OK Corral?" (If you hadn't music attitude in songs like guessed, that one's about "Acceptable Risks," an anti-nu­Bonald Reagan.) clear piece. Other songs of his 
include, "Ballad of Anita Hill" 
King's music and son·gs have and "Are You Now, Or Have been recorded and performed You Ever Been, A Member of A by such artists as Arlo Guthrie, Union?" He says, "I like to sing Ronnie Gilbert, Holly Near, and songs about ordinary people. Pete Seeger, who gives absolute My songs are filled with the testimony to King's talent. Pete hope, courage and humor of fi­Seeger says of King, "One of the esty, rebellious people." 
flection to remind us of the gether, he has produced up­Center for the Homeless on
most brilliant and agile singers happy resilience of the human wards of twelve albums, nine March 8 at 7 pm. This event isand songwriters I know of." The entertaining singer de­spirit. His message songs vary solo albums and three with the co-sponsored by the Center for

The New Haven Advocate scribes his music as "Celtic 
between the funny and the Cabaret troupe Bright Morning the Homeless, the Center fornamed him Best Folk Music Act Latino fusion scat." Billboard frightening, but he pulls them Star. Social Concerns, Campus Min­1991. magazine says of King, "With off with unvarying taste, musi­Charlie King will be bringing istries, and many other campus "When I get up to do a con­encouraging regularity, Charlie cal skill, and charm." Alto-his folksy repertoire to the organizations.

cert, my primary goal is to en-King emerges from his self-re-
The Observer/Photo Counsey of Center tor the Homeless 
Charlie King brings his musical charm to the Center for the Homeless tonight at 7:00 p.m. 


... 
Notre Dame's Little Black Book 
By DAN CICHALSKI 
Accent Writer 
E
xpulsion. Oooh, chills run up and down the spine just thinking about it. To have it happen, to you or someone you know, could nearly ruin your life. At Notre Dame today, ex­pulsions are rare when compared to the younger days of this university. Perhaps due to more lenient rules, dismissal is the punishment for only the most wicked wrongdoings. As an example of the strictness back in 1863, it was required that any books brought to Notre Dame by a student must be examined and approved by an administrator before per­mitted on campus. Today, that regu­lation would probably rule out half of students' personal book collections, not to mention a few magazine subscriptions. 
This week's perusal through the University Archives involved encounter­ing what is known as "The Black Book." This black book has nothing to do with ladies' phone numbers. Instead, it is a register of students dismissed from Notre Dame between 1867 and 1880. What you are about to read are reenactments of actual events as they happened and as they resulted in expulsion from the University of Notre Dame more than 100 years ago. 
The first case comes from the 1867-68 academic year. At this time and through­out the Black Book era, students were forbidden to leave the universiiy grounds without permission from their parents, and even then permission was often lim­ited to home visits. This account deals with two students we will call "William" and "Brian" who .attempted to leave Notre Dame one afternoon. Upon exiting campus, they had the unfortunate luck of passing the Prefect of Discipline. Naturally, the Prefect told the vagrants to r11turn to campus. Will, weakened at the ronfrontation, succumbed and ran back to his room. Brian, the more rebellious lad, continued on his way to a wild night in nineteenth-century South Bend. The next morning Brian was called to a meet­ing with the President, Vice President, and the Prefect and it was decided that he would not be allowed back into the university. Even after this incident, his partner-in-crime Will tried his luck again, sneaking away numerous times, and was also eventually expelled. Such incidents of leaving campus occurred fre­quently and were the grounds for many of the expulsions during this time. 

The following year, the rule against "objectional books" was tested by three students. A student we will identify as "Matthew" was caught with an "obscene book," though the Black Book does not specify what the book was or what he was doing with it. The book was confis­cated and the student was released from the school. An investigation followed and it was discovered that although Matt was caught with the book, he was not respon­sible for bringing it to Notre Dame. 
'The most common reasons 
for students to be expelled during this time period were for leaving the campus grounds and seeking alcohol, specifically whiskey.' 
When the responsible supplier was revealed, he too was expelled. After see­ing two of his classmates expulsed because of this book, another student cracked. "David" became so concerned that he too would be implicated that he went to the administration and confessed to his part in the matter. It was later revealed that he had read the book. The horror! David withdrew from the univer­sity for fear of being expelled. 
Other small, unique incidents occurred during the 1868-69 school year that resulted in expulsions. One fellow was caught after spending several nights in South Bend and was dismissed for being known as a "fast young man." Another, "Joseph," had gone into town and returned quite drunk, only to be con­fronted by the Prefect of Discipline. Not completely in control of his actions, Joe challenged the Prefect to a fight; moments later he begged to hug him. The administration sent another student home for "repeatedly becoming intoxi­cated" on Christmas Day to show that they would not tolerate what they deemed to be inappropriate behavior. 
Perhaps the most intriguing incident occurred in 1874. It became evident after reading through the Black Book that many students wanLed to be expelled and would act accordingly. "Charles" stands out as a more creative executor of this plan. According to the register, Chuck was "addicted to grumbling" and his main complaint was that Notre Dame was too religious. He argued further that the school did not grant enough liberty for men of his age and declared his inten­tions of being expelled as if he were declaring his entrance into the race for President of the United States. Needless to say, his wish was soon granted and he left a disgruntled man, perhaps soon finding a job as a postal worker. Now, for anyone who still may feel such senti­ments about the religious character here, at least this institution has progressed during the last 120 years. 
The final affair involves a group of Domers known by the administration as "The Dirty Nineteen." The Dirty Nineteen were "a lot of scampishly in­clined gents who absented themselves in a body from the study hall one afternoon, went to town, and came home at night with more liquor concealed about their persons than they could well carry." Only seven of the nineteen, however, were dismissed from the school. 
After reading through the Black Book, it became apparent that the most com­mon reasons for students to be expelled during this time period were for leaving the campus grounds and seeking alcohol, specifically whiskey. Oftentimes the stu­dents would initially be reprimanded with a detention sentence which many refused to carry out, and were subse­quently let go altogether. Still, intoxi­cated or sober, it would probably be a bad idea to try to pick a fight with an administrator. A hug might help, though. 
Excerpts from The Black Book 
Case Number 94 
"Was extremely addicted to grum­bling. He thought that there was too much religion here and not liberty enough for youths of his age. Fearing that his money might not be refunded if he went away on his own hook, he declared his intention of being expelled, in which honorable desi he was, of course, suc­h brains are not wante:d for {in] order to succeed in of that kind, and if they .......,.... ,. X would certainly 
Cases 96-100 
persons went to South . on t)leir own responsibilities ·came back blind drunk. They weretakeJ1 altogether by surprise Whf:ln they found that there was no ::~upper and no bed at College tnem; and that their trunks ·· dy. They went under of two or three of the back to town, one of first getting a thumping · of the Prefects when it that other means 'YV"'"'",."''.uu hiSi fil{ht.ng inclination. d.them­rll~''""''""t-..hl . set of 

Wednesday, March 8, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 

Duper portrayed as dope addict 
By CATHERINE WILSON 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 
Mark Duper's reputation was left in tatters today by defense attorneys who described the former Miami Dolphins star receiver as a financially desperate addict willing to do anything to get more cocaine. 
Duper "could ingest one heck-of-a-lot­of cocaine," Duper's attorney, Fred Haddad, told a jury in opening state­ments at Duper's cocaine possession and conspiracy trial. "You're going to hear some language on tapes that even I didn't know." 
Bruce Zimet, attorney for Duper's brother-in-law and co-defendant Brian Briggs, said Duper was able to conceal his addiction "because he was such a fantastic athlete." 
The defense depicted Duper, a three­time Pro Bowl player. as a drug abuser desperate to get 2 pounds of cocaine for personal consumption -not for resale as charged by the government -and charged that an informant facing traf­ficking charges set a trap for Duper to avoid jail. 
But prosecutors said Duper's intent was to convert the cocaine to crack, sell $300,000 worth in his native Louisiana in six months and get out of the busi­ness. 
"Listen, man. We ain't sitting on any­thing. We're going to move it all," assis­tant U.S. attorney K. Lloyd King Jr. quoted Duper as saying. 
The key prosecution witness will be Brad Gallagher, who was arrested on drug charges and immediately informed on one of the NFL's all-time leading receivers, King said Monday. 
Gallagher was used in a sting to get to Duper, and conversations between Duper, Gallagher and undercover drug agents were recorded. 
"All of the tapes indicate a prior rela­tionship for drug usage where Mr. Gallagher is providing drugs for plea­sure or profit," King said. "They had partied together, ingested drugs togeth­er." 
Duper suggested he could sell kilo­gram-quantities of cocaine to Gallagher, King said. More than $1 million in debt and in need of cash, Duper paid $8,000 as a down payment on a 2-pound pur­chase, prosecutors charge. 
The 11-year pro served a 30-day NFL suspension for substance abuse in 1988 but returned to collect even better stats. 
If convicted, the sports celebrity could face 10 years in prison and a $4 million fine. His brother-in-law, Brian Briggs, also was caught in the sting and faces the same charges. 

By DEN~FREEMAN 
A<Sociated Press 
IRVING, Texas 

All-pro defensive end Charles Haley, who said after the Dallas Cowboys' loss in the NFC championship game that he was retiring, will play another season. 
llaley, 31, who is due to make $1.95 million this season, said Tuesday he decided to "unretire" for several rea­sons. One of those reasons, he said, is Cowboys' commitment to keep their players. 
''I'd rather not play if we're going to lose and if they sit on their hands as far as getting other players, I still might retire again," he said. 
llaley said that money was not a fac­tor in his decision. 
"If a team treats me right and treats me like a man with dignity, then I don't worry about the money," he said. "I did not want to retire on a loss. 
"The San Francisco game was a night­mare I have to put to rest," he said. "I have to face it." 
llaley said he began changing his mind when he was in Hawaii for the Pro Bowl. 
"I talked to (broadcaster) Frank GilTord and he told me I should stay in th11re because you don't want to retire when you can still play," he said. 
All-Pro Haley changes mind, ready to return to Cowboys 
Haley also recalled a conversation with Cowboys public relations director Rich Dalrymple. 
"Rich said he thought I should come back and he told me, 'Hey, guy, I love you,' and nobody ever told me that before," he said. "I guess I had to come back after that." 
He said he did not know how long he wanted to play football but added, "This year should be fun no matter what hap­pens. This team still has the right atti­tude and I'm comfortable about it." 
Cowboys owner Jerry Jones said money was never the issue with Haley. 
"Charles feels strongly about our com­mitment to go back to the Super Bowl," Jones said. 
"This just reiterates our strong desire to keep the nucleus of the team. Charles is a leader and a winner and I'm grati­fied he made his decision. It's an endorsement of what we are doing." 
Said coach Barry Switzer: "This is great for the team. We had some contin­gency game plans we won't have to use. With Charles Haley and James Washington gone, this would have been a real dull team. We're just happy to have him back." 
Haley, one of the top pass rushers in the NFL, had 12 1/2 sacks and 68 tack­les for the Cowboys. He was credited with 52 quarterback pressures. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Classifieds 
FOUND: A LARGE SET OF KEYS  SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS:  One-way ticket via Chix to Atlanta  PRAYER TO THE BLESSED VIR­ NEEDED-Aide to and from  
NOTICES  WITH A CANADA KEYCHAIN AND AWALT DISNEY WORLD KEY  Make a difference in the life of a child! Summer therapy camp for  3112 lv. SB 9:30am.-Arv. 1:OOpm. $85 OBO. Lisbeth@ 1-5262 or  GIN (Never known to fail.) Oh, most beautiful flower of Mt. Carmel, fruit­ Pensacola,FL or anywhere close for Spring Break. Will help with costs.  
CHAIN WITH THE NAME JIM AT  handicapped children. Located on  234-5407  ful vine, splendor of Heaven,  Call MATI x3895.  
ATTENTION SOPHOMORES:  STEPAN AFTER THE TRACY  shore of Lake Superior near Big  Blessed Mother of the Son of God,  
tore you looking for that service pro­ CHAPMAN SHOW. THE KEYS  Bay, MI. Positions available for  OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered  Immaculate Virgin, assist me in my  DOYOU SMOKE  
joel that really makes a difference,  ARE NOW AT THE LAFORTUNE  Counselors, Waterfront, Instructors  at $85,900. First floor location.  necessity. 0 Star of the Sea, help  CAMEL CIGARETTES?  
and is a lot of fun? Look no fur­ INFORMATION DESK  for Nature/Arts & Crafts/Recreation,  Finished basement with full lavato­ me and show me herein you are my  IF SO, PLEASE CALL  
lhor...  Nurses, Therapists, Food Service,  ry. Two bedrooms and two baths on  mother. Oh, Holy Mary, Mother of  X2954  
FOUND: man's watch with a  and Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic,  ground level. Lease back to owner  God, Queen of Heaven & Earth! I  
THE SOPHOMORE CLASS  black leather band and the words  responsible, and love children. June  through May, 1995. Call  humbly beseech you from the bot­ CONGRATULATIONSIIIIIIIII  
SERVICE PROJECT  "Philadelphia Varoic." To identity,  1 8 through August 13. Salary, room  (616)946-0700.  tom of my heart to succor me in this  
call Jen @ 4962  & board, and experience of lifetime  necessity. There are none that can  Larry, we've been waiting two and a  
Youth Mentoring at the NE  provided. Call or write for applica­ Clarion Car Stereo-AMIFM/Cass  withstand your power. Oh, show me  half years for this and now it has  
Netghborhood WEDNESDAYS  LOST: A LONG BLACK  tion and information. Bay Cliff  Detachable Face; High Power;  herein you are my mother. Oh  happened. Congratulations from us  
A~JD FRIDAYS 2:30-3:30-4:30  WOMAN'S PERRY ELLIS COAT  Health Camp, 310 W. Washington,  CD Changer Ready; Top of the  Mary, conceived without sin, pray  all.  
mnet at room 161 or Main Circle  AT SR. BAR ON FRI. FEB. 10  Suite 300, Marquette, Ml 49855,  Line; 1 yr old. $200. Call1-8817.  for us who have recourse to thee (3  
Questions? -Brian Tierney x 1058  (FISHER-WALSH DANCE)  (906)228-5770  times). Holy Mother, I place this  CONGRATULATIONSIIIIIIII  
PLEASE CALL CINDY AT  Brother wordprocessor for sale.  cause in your hands (3 times). Holy  
flO EUROPE  273-5399 WITH ANY INFO.­ Female Roomate -Spring Smster  Separate monitor and 3.5" floppy  Spirit, You who solve all problems,  Yeah, you're hat is the best.  
$2?9 anY1imel  REWARDIIIII  96. House 7 min walk from  disk drive included. Best offer. Call  light all roads so that I can attain my  You better watch out because it  
•• FREE Brochure••  DeBartolo.Call Jeannnine @ 289­ Jason at x1852  goal, You who gave me the divine  WILL be mine.  
Alr.o cheap lares worldwide  FOUND: WOMAN'S RING IN  9420  gift to forgive & forget all evil  
AIRHITCH 1-800-326-2009  DEBARTOLO. CALL 4-2954 TO  COMPUTER: Mac Classic II. 4mb  against me & that in all instances in  ############  
IDENTIFY.  WANTED: 1985-88 CHEVY BLAZ­ RAM, 80 mb HD. With Microsoft  my life You are with me, I want in  If you're staying in South Bend for  
##########################  ER OR GMC JIMMY. GOOD CON·  Word 5.1, ClarisWorks, other soft­ this short prayer to thank You for all  Spring Break,  
SELF DEFENSE WORKSHOP This Wed., March 8 in the LaFun  WANTED  DITION. 272-9402.  ware. Call631-4533 or 273-6058.  things as You confirm once again that I never want to be separated  and you like to do good stuff with your  
Ballroom from 7p.m.-10p.m. Self flr?fense Instruction by Fran Mc.Cann of the P.E. Dept., and  COUNSELORS: CAMP EMER­SON, coed Mass. Swimming, ten­ NEED RIDE TO PENNSTATE OR NEAR FOR SPRING BREAK. GAS TOLLS (JIM X2303)  TICKETS  from You in eternal glory. Thank you for Your mercy toward me & mine. The person must say this  life, the Center For the Homeless is looking for volunteers. If interested, call Felicia Leon at  .....  
FREE FOODIII  nis, baseball, basketball, soccer,  LED ZEP TIX 4 SALE  prayer 3 consecutive days. After 3  282-8700.  
OROUGHT TO YOU BY SUB  sailing, windsurfing, waterskiing,  FREELANCE GRAPHIC ARTIST,  PlanVPage Chicago 4/28  days, the request will be granted.  #############  
###########################  arts/crafts, theatre, woodworking,  work at home • Cartoon background  x2264  This prayer must be published after  
rocketry, archery, judo, yearbook,  helpful-Caii219-259-BB22.  the favor is granted. M & D  Bethany, the nex1 time we rent  
$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS$$  photography, video, radio, comput­ • REM Ticket for Sale •  movies it'll have to be "From Russia  
Are you going to read those things Again? I think not. 2323-2342  er, MORE! Super kids, great food, friendly, fun! NO general coun­ FOR RENT  Kansas City -May 27 Best Offer-Christian x11 81  Talk to the Fondue, Miss Thangl 10. Is that a carafe in your pocket,  w/ Love' instead of "The Fugitive," I guess.  
I·o~ndora's Bks NO Ave & Howard  selors. 800-STAFF95  or...  
ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAK­ Get paid to see movies! Part time  BEAUTIFUL 4-bedroom house for rent. Prefer female roommates.  PERSONAL  9. Eyetalian on that? B. We opened the dorr and smoke  Katie, I miss you. Your sheepdog.  
rAST, 35 MIN TO N.D. SPECIAL  job opportunity to work with a major  $225 +uti!. Call Natalie 291-5466.  billowed outl  Attention: Bi-polar attack pending!  
"OBSERVER" RATE $50/$60,  Hollywood studio! Visit Career &  000 The Copy Shop 000  7. lve had so much chocolate, lm  Thief of Knott 4A, please return  
FULL BREAKFAST. THE HOME­ Placement Services at Hesburgh  HOMES FOR RENT  LaFortune Student Center  convulsing  Katie's favorite jeans so the rest of  
SPUN COUNTRY INN, NAPPA·  library for more info. Application  NEAR CAMPUS  WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE,  6. Guys, the host smells really,  us can escape the river of tears.  
NEE, 219-773-2034.  deadline is April 15.  232-2595  & WEEKENDS FOR YOUR  umm...  
ILOST & FOUND I  Job Opening Debate Coach  LIVE IN A GOOD NEIGHBOR­HOOD FURNISHED HOMES  CONVENIENCEIII Phone 631-COPY  5. Talk to the Givenchy 4. Its lost in the abyss! 3. Can I hold it In my teeth?  Theresa and Bevin need a ride to the Boston area for break. Will pay for gas and snacks. Call X2533 if  
Experience Necessary  NORTH OF NO FOR NEXT  2. Bachelor ... Bashfui...Bastard  you can help us. P.S. We are  
Somebody accidentally picked ''P lhe wrong black sportcoat at  Send Resume 302 La Fortune By March 10  SCHOOL YEAR IDEAL FOR 3-8 STUDENTS 2773097  JOINT MILITARY BLOOD DRIVE Wednesday March B  Bob? 1. Hotolll  indeed lusty.  
tho Grace/Fianner SYR last Fri.  All day In the Navy Ward Room of  Sloppy, I dare ya.  
r.ly 10 is in the inside pocket  Job Opening  MOVE OCI180/mo w/3 fem  Pasquerilla Center  Need a job for next year???  
1lease return to Calvin Nelson  Debate Coach  @ Turtle Creek,  Help support the Michiana area  Student Activities is now accepting  UNC is untouchable.  
'14 Grace 4-1598  Experience Necessary  summer/95-96 273-6437  trauma centers.  applications for 95-96 for:  
Send Resume  LaFortune Building Managers  Oooh, heaven is a place In the  
rnund: A gold Bulova quartz watch in lhe 06 parking lot. Call Nicky at  302 La Fortune by March 10  FOR SALE  What effects does the sun have on  Stepan Center Managers Information Desk Attendants  Rock. Hi, I know every1hing about you, do you want to lift. I'm getting  
x?.B51  your skin? Are tanning salons real­ Gorch Games Room  pees (hamiltonian comment).  
Spring Break/Summer Jobs  FOR SALE: OAKHILL CONDO  ly sale? Dr. Holly Harris will dis­ Building Set Up Crew  
I nst:  Learn while you earn!  FIRST LEVEL UNIT. TWO BDR, 2  cuss these topics on 318 @ 7PM in  24 Hr. Lounge Monitors  Yeah, you know where you're  
f. hlue Tl-8 1 calculator in the  $325/week  BATH, FIREPLACE, ALL APPLI­ 184 NSH. Please Come!  Ballroom Monitors  going. do you? All I know is next  
Nicuwland computer lab on Sunday  Citizen's Action Coalition is hiring  ANCES. FINISHED BASE- Irish Express Workers  time, I'm not the designated driver.  
1 round 3pm. Please call Josh  for our entry level campaign posi­ MENT WITH 2 BDR. FAMILY  so long and thanks for all the fish  Office Assistants  
/1214  tions. Full/Part time, Travel, excel­ ROOM AND BATH. CLUBHOUSE  s.  Applications In Student Activities,  J & J, I hope you manage to get  
lent office atmosphere. Hours 2-10,  AND POOL. $86,500.  315 LaFortune.Deadline March 10.  over the meat-deprivation thing.  
FOUND • Baseball cap @ the  M-F, call for appt. 232-7905  CALL DAWN MEYERS/ COLD­ HELP! Need a ride to DCNA  Hint: they don't care that you're not  
r rotto on Fri. 313. Can be claimed  WELL BANKER 271-0266  area for break. Call Dom x1513  Hey Yoda, March 24th, UM, we're  Catholic. The plea won't work.  
,, ~27 Cushing.  SUMMER JOBS  235-3241  there!! We'll! run, we'lllie, we'll do  
ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  Louise, You have made me lose all  whatever it takes! Its so worth it..  Peter has risen. Rejoice  
I 1ST: gold hoop earring on  PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS  Plane ticket to Denver  trust in you. How can we ever  
~·tcsday( Somewhere between 101  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  March 9-19 4pm Midway  make plans for-wild weekends  Watch out for the dancing pack of  I want my Belinda.  
r 13T and 3rd floor Nieuwland)-call  NEAR LAKE PLACID  CHEAP!  together again??? (I know, I gave  gorillas over in Stepan. They are  
tr:•lley x3427  CALL 1-800· 786-8373  call Anne 284-5036  in and wrote one for you.)  an unfriendly species.  Us, obsessive freaks? Not at alii  



-p.ge 14 The Ob"'""'' • SPORTS Wedne>day, Ma<oh 8, 1995 
~~--------------------------------------------~~~~~~~~~~----------------------------------~~---------­


•NBA 
Wilkins' milestone not enough as Ewing's 46 carry Knicks past Celtics 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

New York's Patrick Ewing scored 38 of his season-high 46 points in the second half and Roston's Dominique Wilkins hecame the ninth player in NBA history to score 25,000 points as the Knicks defeated the Celtics 115-110 Tuesday night. 
Ewing scored 16 straight points to keep his sputtering team in the game during the third quarter as New York won its ninth straight game against Boston. Ewing also added six blocks and 12 rebounds. 
Wilkins, who needed 16 points to reach the 25,000­point plateau, finished with 19, including his milestone 3-point­er with 3:19 to play in the fourth quarter. 

Cavs climb with Hill, 89-81 
By CHUCK MELVIN 
A.soiated Press 
CLEVELAND 
This was no act of martyr­dom. Tyrone Hill merely got tired of sitting and watching. 
Playing for the first time since 11ndergoing hand surgery two weeks ago, Hill s c o r e d Cleveland's last 10 points 
Tuesday~ 
Hight as the 
r. a v a I i e r s Hill beat the Detroit Pistons 89-81. 
The Cavaliers ended a sea­son-worst four-game losing streak by limiting the Pistons to just two points in the last eight minutes. 
Detroit took a 79-77 lead on Terry Mills' 3-pointer with 8:05 lnft, then didn't score again until Grant Hill sank a mean­ingless jumper with 13 seconds to play. 
Rut Cleveland's Hill was the story, taking control of a game in which he wasn't even expected to suit up. 
He had surgery to repair a ··hip fracture in his right hand reb. 23 and hadn't been pro­jP.cted to return until at least later this week. 
"Forget all the stuff about me playing with a hurt hand," Hill said. "The important thing is the win. Actually, I thought i nrlividually I played terrible. nut as a team, we did really \\·ell." 
IIill came off the bench late in 
tlw first quarter but didn't have 
much impact until late, when 
he scored 10 straight points on 
a free throw, two dunks, a 
··hort hook, another free throw 
nnd a layup. He finished with 
11 points and five rebounds in 
::?1 minutes. · 
"It was tough to sit on the hench and watch," said Hill, who saw the Cavaliers go 2-4 "hile he was sidelined. "I hate <.itting. I hate losing. And I put pressure on myself to get back in the lineup." 
Doctors, Hill said, had given 
ldm the OK to play this 
Thursday against San Antonio. 
llill decided to speed things up 
1 hit. 
"I felt good enough today, so 
I tried it," he said. 
Chris Mills scored 24 and Terrell Brandon had 20 for 1 IPveland. Terry Mills led the 1 istons with 26 points and 10 rPhounds, and Allan Houston 

The 12-year veteran who joined Boston from the Atlanta Hawks in an off-season trade achieved the milestone in his 960th game, the fifth fastest ever. Wilt Chamberlain, the quickest to 25,000, did so in 691 games. 
New York led 106-104 with 
1:20 to go when Dino Radja, who led Boston with 29 points, missed the second of two free throws and Derek Harper drained a key 3-pointer on the Knicks' next possession. 
New York's John Starks, who finished with 25 points, sank three 3-pointers and scored 11 points in the game's first six minutes as New York built a 21-lllead. 
But Wilkins. who sat out the first 12 minutes, played the entire second quarter and 
LEGAL ASSISTANTS NEEDED for proposing revisions to DuLAc. 
Open to all persons interested in assisting the Legal Department Committee in proposing changes to Du LAc. 
If interested, call 
Dave Horan at 1-6283. 
T 

eO 
server 

the Advertising Department is now accepting applications for 
dvertising Account Executives 
Are you creative? Do you like working with people? Do you want experience in sales? Do you need some cash? join us! 
Submit a one page statement with resume to John Potter in 314 LaFortune by Spring Break. Call John at 1-6900 or 4-1023 with uesttons. 
scored nine points to key the rally for Boston, which twice led by seven points in the quar­ter and enjoyed a 56-54 half­time advantage. 
Throughout the third quarter, Ewing was virtually a one-man team. 
After Charles Oakley scored the first basket of the quarter, Ewing was the only Knick to score until Starks' fadeaway fell through with 3:49 to play in the quarter. 
The Knicks played without forward Charles Smith, who was placed on the injured list with a sprained left knee earli­er in the day. 
The Celtics, despite being over twenty games out of first place, still have a tenous hold on the eighth and final playoff spot. 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
title the Irish won last December, making the grand total of three championships and a 14-1 dual meet record for the 1994-95 season. Also, with Peterson, Hotchkiss, and Brooks, the Irish have earned three individual NCAA consid­eration times for the first time in the team's history. Now it is a matter of waiting to hear if the times will qualify the three swimmers for the champi­onships March 17-19 in Austin, Texas. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for 
Accent Writers 
-----------r---------­
50~ OFF! 50~ OFF! 
Receive 50 cents off when you pwthise aregular I Receive 50 cents off when you p!I'Chase aregular or largt ~ or cone atfrozen yogurt I or 1argt cup or cOM atfrozen yogurt. I I
Not valid with eny olh6 okr. an.: po:r customer Not valid with ony other olfer. One po:r customer po:r visit. Offer good at ab<M address only. I po:r visit. Offer good at ~ address only. Offer Expires: 3/31/95 Offer Expires: 3/31/95 
I
~ 
I I ctoiiirtiJ 0 1994 I CA!n1 -IrsY09Urt, Ud. 0 1994 I CA!n1 BelleY<: Irs Y09Urt, Ltd. 
The men's team has im­proved since Christmas break, but has not seen the success that the women have. 
The Irish men's eighth place finish at the Eastern's was led by freshman Ron Royer who finished eighth in both the 50 and 100 Yd. Freestyle. 
"Our men's team has taken giant steps forward since Christmas," said Welsh. "They worked hard, kept improving, and their progress was very encouraging." 

Anyone interested should contact Krista at 631-4540 or bring a ·Haiku to 314 LaFortune by Thursday, March 23. 

added 20 points. Detroit's Joe Dumars scored five points, nearly 15 under his average, on 2-for-10 shooting. 
"They present some problems defensively," Dumars said, "but we had the shots in the fourth quarter. We just didn't exe­cute." 
The Pistons, who had shot 55 percent through the first three quarters, went scoreless through Hill's flurry and totaled just 12 points in the fourth quarter. Cleveland, meanwhile, committed only four fouls and two turnovers in the second half. 
"When you can't hit your shots, you're in trouble, espe­cially against a team as, let me say, regimented as Cleveland," Detroit coach Don Chaney said. "They don't push it. They're patient, and that's their game. 
"We were in the game until that dry spell. Against Cleveland, you can't have turnovers, and you can't go cold." 
The Cavaliers shot 49 percent for the game after failing to get above 41 percent during their four-game skid. 

~ 
Wednesday, M<!rch 8, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
•NBA 
Johnson, Suns burn Rockets, 113-102 Denver, Abdul-Rauf 
By MICHAELA. LUTZ away from us. happen, particularly in the sec­As,nciated Press "A lot of the guys were frus­ond half." 
dump Dallas, 99-96 

trated with the referee's calls But their lead was short­HOUSTON and I disagreed with a lot of the lived. Houston led once more at 
The Houston Rockets were shouting foul but not as often as the referees. 
Kevin Johnson scored 23 points and hit 11 of 13 free throws as Phoenix took advan­tage of Houston's foul-plagued fourth quarter and beat the lloekets 113-102 on Tuesday night. 
"We just out-executed them in the fourth quarter," Johnson said. "We were deeper. We got llakcem frustrated down the stretch and we were able to ronver our free throws." 
llakeem Olajuwon scored 40 points and got 13 rebounds, but lw also committed four fouls in thP fourth quarter. fouling out \\ ith 4:05 left in the game as the Hockets lost for the fifth o;fraight game. 
The Hoekets had four teehni­ral fouls called against them. 
"I was very upset," Olajuwon said. "There were a lot of ques­tionable calls when the game wns on the line. I was looking at the way the game was taken calls." 
The Suns. who won their fourth straight, hit all 12 of their fourth-quarter free throws and Johnson had six, including one on a technical foul called against Olajuwon with 7:39 to play. 
Phoenix also was deadly from 3-point range, hitting eight of 13 for a 62 percent average. 
The Roekets haven't lost five games in a row since the 1992­1993 season when they had a seven-game losing streak from Dec. 26 to Jan. 8. 
Houston fought an uphill bat­tle throughout the third quarter trying to catch the Suns after trailing 63-57 at the half. Houston finally got its first lead of the second half on Clyde Drexler's free throw with 1:05 to go in the quarter. 
Phoenix's bench outscored Houston's 38-23. 
"We have a lot of depth," Phoenix coach Paul Westphal said. "We just kept throwing guys at them. KJ (Kevin Johnson) made a lot of things 87-86 early in the fourth quar­ter but a 10-0 Suns charge over 

2:39 gave the Suns their first victory in three games against the Rockets this season. 
Charles Barkley had 26 points, including the Suns' final 10 points. 
Olajuwon scored 12 points and Maxwell had 11 in the first quarter and used a 14-4 charge for a 35-32 lead. 
But Phoenix's bench, led by Wayman Tisdale with 10 points, helped the Suns pull to their six-point halftime bulge. Phoenix's bench outscored the Houston subs 26-8 in the first half. 
"We've been here before," Houston coach Rudy Tomjanovich said. "We've got to drill and do tape work. It's hard to do tape work because players don't like to see their mistakes. 
"I didn't when I was a player but you've got to go out and promote the way you think you need to win." 
Associated Press 
DALLAS 
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf scored 29 points, including a go-ahead 3-pointer with 36 seconds left, and the Denver Nuggets went on to their fourth straight victo­ry. 99-96 over the Dallas Mavericks on Tuesday night. 
Roy Tarpley scored a season­high 2 6 points with 12 rebounds and Jamal Mashburn also had 26 points for the Mavericks, who overcame a 16­point third-quarter deficit to lead by as many as five points with less than three minutes remaining. 
Dikembe Mutombo had 16 points and 16 rebounds for Denver. 
Dallas seemed safely in front, 94-89 with 2:40 to play, after Jason Kidd's three-point play. But Denver charged back in front with a 9-0 run, taking a 95-94 advantage on Abdul-Raufs 3-pointer with 36 sec­onds to play. 


Reggie Williams added two free throws with 12.3 seconds left to push Denver's edge to 97-94, then Mashburn scored on an uncontested layup with :07 left to pull Dallas to within one. 
Abdul-Raurs two free throws with 6.9 seconds left gave the Nuggets a 99-96 lead. Kidd missed a 3-pointer with three seconds left to end Dallas' hopes. 
Denver was on the verge of taking control, opening the third quarter with an 11-2 spurt to push a seven-point halftime advantage to 69-53. 
But Dallas responded by outscoring Denver 23-6 over the final 8:49 of the quarter. Tarpley had seven points dur­ing the run, including a 3­pointer, and Scott Brooks gave the Mavericks a 76-75lead. 
• 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Wrestling -Attention ND wrestlers. Interested in reviving wrestling here at Notre Dame. A group of stu­dents is trying to start a club on campus. If you are intes­rested please call Marcus or Andreww at 4-2230 and you will be sent details. Challenge U Aerobics ­There will be no 4:00 pm Aerobics class on Friday, March 10. The regular schedule will resume on Monday. March 20. • ND/SMC SaUtng Club * Attention sailors, we will be having an orginizational meeting for the spring on Tuesday, March 21 at 7:00 pm at the boathouse. Please come ifinterested. FISHING-RecSports is offer­ing a casting and angling 
class in April. If interested, 
please return from break 
with your fishing gear.  For  
more  information,  call  
RecSports at 1·6100.  

Foik Nominations Invited 
The Reverend Paul J. Foik Award Committee invites nominees for the award, which is given annually to a library faculty member who has contributed significantly to library service to the Notre Dame community or to the library profession through personal scholarship or involvement in professional associations. The award is named for the Holy Cross priest who served as director ofNotre Dame's library from 1912 to 1924 and was a leading figure in the library profession in the first quarter of the 20th century. It is among those announced at the President's faculty dinner in May. Previous winners have been Maureen Gleason, Deputy Director, Robert Havlik, Engineering Librarian emeritus, Joseph Huebner, Head ofCollection Development, and Rafael Tarrailo, Latin American Studies Subject Librarian. All members of the University Libraries' and Law Library faculty with two or more years' tenure are eligible. Please send names of nominees, including justification, to the Reverend Paul J. Foik Award Committee, % Donald Sniegowski, 356 O'Shaughnessy Hall, by April 7. 
Wednesday, March 8, 1995

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll

.... 
Scabs scare away the spring fans 
Associated Press 
neplacement baseball finally drew 'some replacement fans Tuesday, proving that a game bPtween the Yankees and Red Sox will draw even when it's Handy Brown vs. Jeff Yurtin instead of Don Mattingly vs. Mo Vaughn. 
There were 4,287 fans in the stands at Fort Myers, Fla., to watch Boston beat New York 1­0, including fans who bought tickets the day of the game. There were lines to enter the stadium as late as the third in­ning. 
But elsewhere, crowds re­mained sparse as players came, went and made score­r.ards mandatory. 
The Tigers acknowledged 
they use two crowd figures ­
tickets sold and actual bodies 
in the stands. So there were 
only 1,262 on hand to see 
Detroit beat Philadelphia 13-2. 
And only 906 people showed 
up to watch the Indians play 
the Royals in Haines City, Fla. 
Adding to the strange quality 
(,f this spring training was a 
replacement manager, Tom 
nunnells of the Tigers, who has 
yet to use the chair in Sparky 
Anderson's office. 
"I have to confess, l did lean 
on it when I reached over to 
pick up the phone the other 
rlny," said Runnells. 

Despite the strike, expansion discussed 
By RONALD BLUM 
Associated Press 

PALM BEACH, Fla. 
Baseball owners took a break from their strike Tuesday to consider adding a pair of expansion teams for the 1998 season. 
The teams, expected to be named the Tampa Bay Devilrays and the Arizona Diamondbacks, will have to pay expansion fees of about $140 million each. 
The five groups that made 30-minute presentations to the expansion committee said they weren't discouraged by base­ball's constant labor battles. 
"I don't want this to sound trite, but it can't get any worse," said Phoenix Suns president Jerry Colangelo, who leads the group from his area. "It can only get better. I think it's bottomed out." 
Vincent Naimoli heads the 
Florida group. 

His bid to buy the San 
Francisco Giants and move 
them to St. Petersburg was 
rejected by the National League 
owners in September 1992, 
prompting an antitrust suit 
that's still pending. 

"At this point, we'll just sit 
and wait and hope," he said. 
Naimoli wanted to call his 
team the Stingrays, but the 
Hawaiian Winter League team 
in Maui already owns that 
name. 

One group from Orlando, 
Fla., and two from northern 
Virginia also are seeking teams, but Phoenix and St. Petersburg are considered the overwhelming favortes. 
Owners, who may take a final expansion vote on Wednesday or Thursday, said they must press ahead with a decision because of the deadline faced by Colangelo's group. 
Maricopa County approved $253 million of funding for a $27 5 million retractable-roof stadium, but the funding will expire unless a franchise is granted by April 1. 
Colangelo said his belief in the Phoenix market was one of the reasons his group was will­ing to pay up to $140 million. 
"If someone handed me one­
third of the teams in baseball, I 
wouldn't touch them with a 10­
foot pole," he said. 
Ashburn receives 
all 0f;~~Fame nod 

"ii!::;:t· 
TAMPA. Fla. 
besHwer leadoff men, 
if ..... of Famers eleeted tuesday by the Veterans Committee. 
National League founder William Hulbert and turn-of­the·century pitcher Vic Willis also were chosen by the 17­~el}lber committee.. :, ·~r appreciate the fact that I w~ chosen in my 50th year of PJ;Q ball," said Ashburn, who hH .308 in a 15-year career mostly with the Philadelphia Phillies, the team whose games he now broadcasts. 
"I thought maybe it would happen someday, but you don't sit back and say, 'This is going to be the year.' 
The panel's voting rules were revised recently for a five-year period, allowing it to pick four people instead of the usual two. In particular, the group wanted to enhance the chances for Negro Leagues and 19th century players, and it took full advantage of the change. 
''I'm a little sick, but I'm feeling a little better now," the 78-year-old Day said from his hospital room in Baltimore. 
The Observer 
Viewpoint is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Assistant Viewpoint Editor Copy Editor 
Please submit a resume and personal statement by Thursday, March 9, at 5 p.m. For more info call Michael O'Hara at 1-4541 or 4-3597. 
SADD & Office of Alcohol & Drug encourage you to play it safe during Spring Break this year. Whatever your plans are, make sure they include these tips. 
·Remember you don't have to be "drunk" to be impaired-even one or two drinks affect your driving skills. ·Stay out of dangerous situations involving alcohol, whether in a car, abar, or abedroom. ·Drinking, drugs and driving don't mix. ·Take your tum being a designated driver-get everyone where they are going safely. ·Respect other people's right, and your own-to choose not to drink. ·Respect state laws and campus policies. ·Wear your seat belt-It's your best protection against an


,···· .....,.... i 
JD··....· 
impaired driver . 

. '.... / ' .... ·. / . .. .· .·· ...•'
A Ill 
·Ifone ofyour friends drinks to the point ofpassing ont, alcohol poisoning is a real danger. Ifyou are the least bit concerned, please seek medical attention. Better safe then Sorry! 

Fill out portion below to be eligible for the Grand Prize Play it safe ... and sign the pledge 
Name 
School 
Address 
City/State/Zip 
Phone ( ) 

Have a Spring Brea to Remem er 
The Spring Break Pledge: 
• I promise not to drink and drive during • I will wear my seat belt, whether I'm Spring Break or let any of my friends driving or a passenger. 
• I will watch out for my friends, take care of

get behind the wheel impaired. myself and have a great Spring Break. 
•I will not ride in a car when the driver has been drinking. 
Signed 

Level, LaFortune Student ~......u.L 

camp~~ 

---~----------­
Wednesday, March 8, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 

Photo courtesy of Big East Ex-Xavier coach Pete Gillen has surprised many, as his Providence Friars are in line for an NCAA berth in his first year. 


• 


FREE FOOD NJGHT I~ TONIGHT! AT ALUMNI ~ENIOR CLUB 7PM 
COME ENJOY PIZZA AND BREAD~TICK~ FOR FREE 

Surprising Providence makes late run for bid 
By FRANK BAKER Associated Press 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. 

Watch out for Providence, the defending Big East champion. With victories over No. 6 Connecticut and No. 13 Villanova in their last two games, the Friars are in posi­tion for another NCAA tourna­ment bid. 
Coach Pete Gillen believes the Friars (15-11) need two wins in the Big East tournament for a shot at the 64-team field. Providence plays No. 22 Syracuse (19-8) on Friday. 
The Orangemen defeated Providence twice this season, the last time by 24 points. 
"The last time, they toyed with us," Gillen said at a news conference Tuesday. "We played them tough for 12 min­utes and then it was like a tidal wave. They waxed us pretty good. But we know we can play better." 
Less than two weeks ago, Providence couldn't play any worse. On Feb. 25, the Friars lost to Pittsburgh 56-48 in their worst effort of the year. It was their third straight loss and fifth in sixth games. 
But Providence regrouped for a 72-70 upset of UConn, then beat Villanova 71-70 five days later. 
"Last week we were talking about having enough balls to practice with. Now I'm talking about going to the NCAAs. It's a little heady," Gillen said. 
Providence began its first season under Gillen fast, com­piling a 4-0 record before los­ing at Georgetown 72-70. The Friars pushed their mark to 10­2 -including a 15-point victo­ry over No. 19 Oklahoma State -then crashed in the Big East. 
"The fact that our kids hung in there, they deserve some credit," Gillen said. "A lot of kids would have tipped over and died. I think that says something about our kids' character, about the chemistry, the kids liking each other." 
Gillen knows about chem­istry. Before arriving at Providence, his overachieving Xavier teams made it to the NCAA tournament seven times in his nine seasons, reaching the final16 in 1990. 
After all those years in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference, Gillen found him­self a little awed by the Big East. 
"I think we have a great league from top to bottom," he said. "I think we're probably the second-best league in the country. The ACC is probably ahead of us." 
He said the league deserves to have five teams in the NCAA tournament. Connecticut, villanova, Syracuse, and No. 24 Georgetown are locks. 

SURV Benefit for YWCA 
at 
Dalloways 

on March 8th Featuring George and the Freeks 
8:00 p.m.-12:00 p.m. 
Bring Clothes and Canned Food 

CLASS OF '96 
This Is Our Last Chance! 
The Senior Class Officers are accepting applications [(If positions on the following cpnunittees: 
-Alumni[Senior Club -Fundraasing-Publicity-Service -Senior Week/ Welcome -Class of '96 Alumni Club -Class 'Trips -Senior Concerns -On-Campus Activities 
• Graduation Back Week 

'Get Inl'olved -The More, The Merrier!!' Applications can be picked up in the Student Government Office, and are due by Friday, March 24th.  
Kevin KOWIK President  Paul BERREniNI Vice-President  Nate EBELING Treasurer  

Kale 
GRISHAM 
Secretary 
Bombs away for MSU/Iowa 
By GREG SMITH Associated Press 
Iowa City, IOWA 
The scoreboard operator at the Michigan State-Iowa bas­ketball game had better be quick on the trigger Wednesday night. 
There will be plenty riding on the 3-point shooting of MSU's Shawn Respert and Iowa's Chris Kingsbury, two of the Big Ten's best long­range shooters playing for the highest scoring teams in the conference. 
For ninth-ranked Michigan State {21-4 overall, 13·3 Big Ten), the Spartans need a win to go a half-game in front of 14th-ranked and co­conference leader Purdue (22·6, 13·3), which plays at Minnesota on Thursday. For the Hawkeyes (18-10, 8·8}, a win would greatly improve their chances for an NCAA tournament berth. 
"We've got to win this game Wednesday night. It's a must-win game for us," Iowa coach Tom Davis said. 
"I think for both teams, it'll just be a war," Iowa's Jess Settles said. "I know if J was in Michigan State's shoes, I'd be really wanting to win the game just to win the Big Ten title. And being in our shoes, we want to get to the NCAAs." 
The Spartans overcame a four-point deficit in the final 
3:19 for a 69·68 victory Jan. 7 at East Lansing as Eric Snow sank a 12-foot shot at the buzzer. Respert led MSU with 18 points while Kingsbury paced Iowa with 29 points. 
Since then, Respert and Kingsbury have been chasing each other for 3-point shoot­ing honors. 
Respert, a senior who leads the Big Ten in scoring with 
24.7 points per game, has made 97 3-pointers in 202 attempts. He makes an aver­age of 3.9 long-range shots per game for the Spartans, who score an average of 77.9 points, second to Iowa's 84.8 point average. 
Kingsbury, seventh in the 
league in scoring with a 16.9 
average, has made 98 3­
pointers in 243 tries. The 
sophomore has twice drilled 
nine 3-pointers this season 
and has three other games 
where he's made seven. He 
has 142 3-pointers in his 
career, the school's all-time 
leader 
"I've never had anybody 
with that range," Davis said. 
"There are very few that are 
as strong, physically, as what 
he is." 
As dangerous as Kingsbury 
is, Davis said, Respert is the 
more complete player. 
"He's really tough to cover; 
constantly in motion, using 
his screens," the coach said. 
Both teams also have solid point guards to direct their fast-break offenses. Snow, averaging 11.1 points, has 118 assists, or 7.4 a game, to lead the conference. 
-
-----~-------~-----­

I 
I 
page 18 
The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, March 8, 1995 

But more than his playing 
• GYMNASTICS

skills, Mainieri praises
Richards 
Richards' work ethic. continued from page 20 
"Ro is an outstanding per­
Gymnasts flip into spring action 

son," the coach says. "He Outstanding is exactly what comes to play every day and 
Richards has been so far this season. · In addition to the team's second highest batting average, he leads the team with 12 hits. 
But Richards also hits for power. He is tied with fellow outfielder Ryan Topham for the team lead with two home runs, and the two also lead the Irish with 12 runs batted in. 
At last weekend's College Baseball Classic in Seattle Richards hit .500 with a team­high seven RBI. He hit a grand slam against Washington that put the game away, and then had a two run single to finish off Nevada. 
"Rowan is a very strong per­son who worked hard in the weight room," Mainieri says. "That increased strength has given him tremendous bat speed." 
Richard's combination of strength and speed make him a force defensively as well. 
"He is an outstanding out­fielder who catches the ball as well as anyone," says Mainieri. "He has done a super job in r.enterfield." 
has never complained about nagging injuries. He is the type of player coaches love to have because he is always giving all that he's got." 
Richards, however, chooses to emphasize the achievements of the Notre Dame team rather than himself. 
"The season is going great so far," he says. "The team morale is really high and we look better than I have seen us in three years." 
Richards gives much of the credit for both his early success and the Notre Dame team to Mainieri. 
"We've really bonded well with coach," Richards says. "We've come to together with him. He fits in well." 
Both Mainieri and Richards hope he will stay healthy and continue to contribute into the conference season. 
"I'd just like the opportunity to hit and play defense every day," Richards says. "Hopefully, we can keep going and make it to Omaha." 
John Fogerty needs to look no further than Rowan Richards. 
He can play centerfield. 
Observer Staff Report 
One of the many underpub­licized clubs on the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's campus is the Gymnastics club. The club allows gymnasts to hone their skills and compete with other gymnasts on a similar level. 
While members are not re­quired to be experienced, most, especially the females, do boast significant experience. Having started the sport at a young age, the club provides an op­portunity for the gymnasts to continue on a collegiate level. 
The team competes in the spring in four to six matches with clubs from Indiana-Purdue University at Indianapolis, University of Wisconsin, Miami University of Ohio, Virginia Tech, and University of Buffalo. 
So far this year, the women's team has placed second at the Purdue Golden Grips Invitational, Indiana Invitational, and its own Clover Classic. They also placed third at the Miami Cup. 

•NBA 
The Observer/Tina Lemeker 
The gymnasts of the ND/SMC club have fared well on the mats this season, managing to place in several club matches. 

Recovering Porter pours in 36 as Portland edges Milwaukee, 106-100 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE 

Terry Porter, playing in only his lOth game of the season after returning from ankle surgery, scored a season-high 36 points Tuesday night, help­ing the injury-weakened Portland Trail Blazers beat the Milwaukee Bucks 106-100 and end a three-game losing streak. 
The Bucks. who lost their third straight, were led by Eric 1\Jurdock with 29 points and Vin Baker with 27 points and 1 2 rebounds. 
Porter took up the slack for Portland's top two scorers who were both out with injuries ­forward Clifford Robinson (sprained ankle) and Rod Strickland (bruised shoulder). Jlarvey Grant and Aaron McKie both added 16 apiece for Portland. 
Otis Thorpe hit a basket with 

4:21 left to give Portland a 97­91 lead but the Bucks pulled to 1 00-99 when Murdock hit one of two fre throws with 1:34 left. Thorpe tossed in a short basket with 54 seconds remaining for a 102-93 lead and Porter hit three of four free throws in the linal17 seconds to preserve the victory. 
The Bucks' Marty Conlon hit the final basket of the third period with 29.9 seconds left to The Bucks took their first pull the Bucks to 84-80 genter­lead of the game with 9:35 left ing the last quarter. in the second period at 36-33 


Porter had 8 points in the on a 3-pointer by Glenn period to keep the Blazers in Robinson. control. Portland jumped to a 10-2 
Porter, who had 23 points in advantage, but the Bucks, get­the first half, hit a pair of free ting 11 points from Murdock throws with 3.9 seconds left in including three 3-pointers, nar­the second period to give the rowed the Blazers' lead to 31­Blazers a 59-57 lead. 27 after one period. 
CASTING & ANGLING COURSE 
RECSPORTS WILL BE OFFERING A CASTING & ANGLING CLASS IN APRIL. ANYONE INTERESTED IN TAKING THE CLASS WHO HAS EQUIPMENT AT HOME, IS ENCOURAGED TO BRING IT BACK WITH THEM WHEN THEY RETURN FROM BREAK. 
CLASS DATES 
APRIL 4 APRIL 11 APRIL 18 APRIL 25 


The team is led by senior of­ficers Kara Ratliff, Jeff Young, Kelly Costello, Molly Ryan, and junior Cynthia Exconde. 
"This year's Clover Classic was a successful meet for all competing members of the club," said Exconde. 
"The women's team is now concentrating on its trip to Virginia Tech on April 8 for the Nationals." 



I 
MARCH 29 BOWLING GREEN 4:00p.m. 30 CINCINNATI 4:00p.m. 
APRIL 1 BUTLER (2) 12:00 p.m. 

.. The CLUB I I The~LUB 
I 
2 BUTLER (2) 12:00 p.m. 4 INDIANA STATE 4:00p.m.I 5 CHICAGO STATE 7:00p.m. 7 WISC.-MILWAUKEE 5:00p.m. 
8 WISC.-MILWAUKEE (2) 12:00 p.m.

to eat. I to beat. ­
9 WISC.-MILWAUKEE 12:00 p.m.

I 
~ 

11 ILLINOIS 5:00p.m. 15 DETROIT (2) 12:00 p.m. 18 DUQUESNE (2) 5:00p.m.

I <1: ::E 
19 PURDUE 7:00p.m.I c 0 20 VALPARAISO 7:00p.m.Lll :c 22 ILLINOIS-CHICAGO (2) 12:00 p.m. 23 ILLINOIS-CHICAGO (2) 12:00 p.m.
I a: an 
25 ALABAMA 7:00p.m.
I 1-en 
26 ALABAMA 5:00p.m.
en 
27 EASTERN ILLINOIS 5:00p.m.
I 0
z ..... MAYI 5 NORTHEASTERN ILLINOIS 7:00p.m.
L---­

Wednesday, March 8, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
MlRRORI.AND HUY NGOC PHAN CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 

~---------------------,~r----------------------,ur---~~~~~~~~---, 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
CIGARs ARE All 
"ffiE. RAGE, DAD. 
'100 ~LD SMOKE C\Gfi.\~.'5! 
ntLBERT 
ARE YOU WORKING 8  
TWICE AS FAST SINCE.. ~  
I DOUBLED YOUR ~  
~  

STAFF 7 r.====t ~ 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Pooh's middle name? 
1 Bridge option 33Wordsof 5 Reunion group 
self-control? 9 Sound before 
37 California­"Gesundheit!" 

Nevada lake 14 Computer text 
39 Serpentinefunction greeting

150neoftwo 
40Parking­

teams 43 "Show Boat" 1& The good composerdishes 44 Early Peruvians 11 Badgered 46 "Charlotte's18 Sherbets' Web" and cousins "Animal Farm"? 
19 Apple drink 46 D.C. vitamin 20 Shipboard monitorsregulations? 
49 BulletinZ3 Steppenwolf's 52 Warm wrap 

creator 54 Colorado resort 
!4 Flashiest 59 Marriage?
!8 Actress Stapleton &3 Sentry 
'NSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

FUTIJLE\KE CCNL\l BE AU.. TI-{E. Rt>-GE, B\JT IT WO\JLD STILL BE. DISG\JS\ING-.  BILL WAITERSON  
SCOIT ADAMS  

~ 
~ ~ 
w 
I'VE CODED TWELVE MODULES.. BARR'< IS ON 
A J"OURNEY OF DISCOV­ER'< WHERE HE. WILL FIND OUT M'< MOUSE. IS NOT A 
f'\ICF\OPHONE 
I 

;; 
= .; 

.No. I~ 50A',RY. 

In an incredible stroke of luck, Brian discovers that the Final Jeopardy question is the same as the 20­point bonus question on his take-home midterm. 
• OF INTEREST 
i . A hospitality lunch will be held tomorrow at the CSC from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. Proceeds will benefit the Logan Center. 
Brendon O'Leary, Senior Lecturer in Political Sci­
ence at the London School of Economics, will be speak­
ing on "Resolving Northern Ireland" with a response 
by Seamus Deane, Keough Chair In Irish Studies 
English Department today at 4:15 p.m. in 126 
DeBartolo. :ti. Robert Adam, one of the foremost classical archi­
tects in Britain, will be giving a lecture concerning his 
recent work in room 207 of the Architecture Building 
today at 4:30 p.m. 
Van Driver Training Course will be held for all 
those who have previously not attended and are plan­
ning to request use of the CSC's vans. The course will 
be held today from 5:00 to 6:00 p.m. in room 124 at 
the esc. 
A recital In the Basilica will be given by Craig Cramer, associate professor and organist, featuring the organ works of Johann Sebastian Bach tonight at 
8:00 p.m. Admission is free and open to the public. ... The PreMLaw Society in conjunction with the ND Alumni Association is sponsoring free trips to Northwestern Law School on March 29 and to Michigan Law School on April 7. The deadline for sign-ups is March 10 in 101 O'Shag. 
66 Hitchcock nail-biter 
&7 German valley 66 Cry of surrender &9 Epitome of 
thinness 70Hgt. 71 Go by car 72 1978 Village 
People hit 73 Cautious 
DOWN 
1 Bird cage swing 2 Cherish 3Walls 4 Fricassees 5 With it, 
sartorially & In -parentis 1 Revival meeting 
shout &Snuggle 
9 Version 
10 The French Chef 11 Put out of sight 12 Word before person and vote 13 Sculler's need 21 Convoy component 22 Caviar 25 Singer Waters 2& Coast 27 Adolescents 29 DoIt 30 Diamond arbiter 31 Harvests 33 Hint of fragrance 
•MENU 
Notre Dame 
.: ~;'.~;. 
North 
Flank Steak Sandwiches Oriental Blend Grilled Cheese 
Saint Mary's 
Call 284-4500 for information. 
South 
Minestrone Chicken Romano Turkey Turnovers 

-
34 Indian believer 35 Levant of "Information 
Please" 3& Simile's center 38 Police blotter 
abbr. 41 Bush's old 

command 42 Scrambled item 45 Do a slow burn 47 Oolong and 
green 50 Nosh 

51 Like clear night &o Meander skies &1 De Mille genre 53 Sophia's &2Creme­
spouse creme 55 Scatter &3Moscow 5& Singer Abdul department 57 Clear sky 
store 

64Numero­driven 65 Behave sa Chutzpah-
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (7~ each minute). 
Have something to say? Use The Observer classifieds 


,-­
earned the starting spot in center and has responded by leading every­day players with a .522 batting aver­age in the team's first six games. 
"Rowan caught my eye early this fall," said head coach Paul Mainieri. "His obvious talent jumped out at 
me." 
Richards' talents were apparent in his first game for the Irish, when he belted a home run in his first colle­giate at bat against Arizona. He went on to start 35 out of 52 games that year and posted a .280 average. lie was also used as a pinch-runner and nabbed 20 bases. 
But the next season saw Richards 

-
After two years as a reserve, Rowan Richards is ready to play centerfield. 
By MEGAN McGRATH 
Sports Writer 
John Fogerty's early 80's hit "Centerfield" was meant to be a paean to the days when baseball was simple, pure and free of mindless labor disputes. 
But the song could be the theme song of junior Rowan Richards' Notre Dame career. 
Used sparingly during his sopho­more year, this season Richards has 
~~--------­
Wednesday, March 8, 1995 

SPORTS 
Put• me 1n Coach 
The Observer/John Fogerty 

languishing in a sophomore slump. He started 14 games and had just 48 at-bats. 
"It was Coach Murphy's decision," says Richards. "Obviously he thought other players could help the team more. There were several guys competing for time, and I guess we had kind of a platoon." 
Richards refused to be discouraged by a lack-luster sophomore cam­paign. Instead, he ~gned up for the 
Y.D. Red Sox in the competitive Cape Cod league, a New England summer league featuring some of the nation's best collegiate players. 
"The Cape Cod league was a great experience," Richards says. Mainieri, himself a veteran of the league, concurs. 
"The confidence you get from play­ing against the best players in the country every day and knowing you belong is just tremendous," he says. "After Rowan played there, and earned All-Star honors, it helped him believe in himself and believe he could be outstanding." 
see RICHARDS I page 18 

Irish women swim to third championship of year 
By BETSY BAKER 
Sports Writer 

The Notre D a m e \\Omen's swimming !Pam contin­urd its rrr.ord-set­ting season lac;t weekend hv capturing its third championship meet of thP season with a dramatic vie­t•HY at the Eastern Intercollegiate Championships. 
The Irish 400 Freestyle relay team of Linda Gallo, Jenni Dahl, Shelley Hotchkiss, and Jesslyn Peterson edged out the Southern Illinois team by a .22 second margin, giving the Irish a two-point victory over Southern Illinois and the sec­ond Eastern Intercollegiate title in Irish team's history. 
Freshman sensation Hotchkiss continued to lead the Irish team as she won three individual events·and partici­pated as a member of two win­ning relays, including the meet­winning relay. She set a meet record in the 500 yd. Freestyle with a time of 455.22 and was named Outstanding Female Performer of the meet. 
In addition to Hotchkiss' per­formance, Peterson and sopho­more Erin Brooks again were big winners for the Irish. Peterson, who along with Hotchkiss has consistently been a key leader of the Irish, won three individual events and swam on three winning relays. Brooks won the 200 Backstroke with a meet record of 2:01.35. 
Despite the highlights of these three performances, the key to the Irish victory was the team's depth. 
"We took 19 girls on the trip and needed all of them to win," said Irish head coach Tim Welsh. "It was a wonderful vic­tory, the girls really deserve it." 
Welsh, who along with the team is reveling in the success of the Irish this season, has also been recognized. After being named Midwestern Collegiate Conference Coach of the Year last weekend as the Irish cap­tured their eighth consecutive MCC title, Welsh was named Outstanding Women's Coach of the Championship last week­end. Accepting no credit him­self, he continues to praise his team's success. 
"To be able to win two cham­pionship meets in 10 days is a great accomplishment," said Welsh. 
Adding to the tally is the National Catholic Championship 
see IRISH/ page 18 
of note...

,. 
Gymnastics 
Notre Dame 

Notre Dame/Saint Mary's gymnastic club 

NIT berths will he announced 
Gymnastics
vaults toward a busy spring. 
Sunday evening. 

See page 18 




