
Friday, September 15, 1995• Vol. XXVII No. 20 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
WVFI faces new challenges 
By KRISTI KOLSKI 
Assistant Nc:ws Editor 
I
f WVFI's move to the FM band were a horse race, the station would still be 
stuck at the gate. 
Months after renewing their commitment to moving to the FM band, the student run AM station has made little progress towards that goal. Various ob­stacles have pushed the dream of going FM at least two years away. 
The odds got worse when WVFI station manager Ken Maverick resigned his position Sept. 5 due to outside time commitments and "philosophi­cal differences" with how the station is currently operated. 
"Ultimately, I just didn't share the same vision for WVFI as the rest of the board," he said. "I was frustrated with some of the stigmas and traditions that have gone on there. That is part of the reason it's remained an unprofessional station." 
A lack of professionalism has haunted WVFI in the past. 
To reach the next level, the station must improve to the level of Federal Communication Commission standards, accord­ing to Joe Cassidy, Director of Student Activities. 
"It's a legal issue as soon as we put them on the public air­ways," said Cassidy. "Their for­mat could be totally Christian Religion but if they are not meeting FCC standards we are still not going to put them on the air." 
As an AM station, WVFI is currently not forced to comply with FCC regulations. Trans­forming into an FM station would require strict avoidance of any "not for air" material. 
This includes air play of songs with offensive or degrading lan­guage. 
If WVFI's staff can maintain a professional level for a sus­tained period of one year, the FM process could begin, ac­cording to Adele Lanan, Assis­tant Director of Student Activi­ties. 
"During the second year we could start applying for a li­cense and purchasing equip­ment," said Lanan. 
But the station has not yet 
'people come to 
associate what they hear on the radio with the University." 
Charles Clarke WSND station manager 

headed in that direction. 
"WVFI has been more lack­adaisical in their approach," she said. "It is the culture of the station that needs to tighten up." 
WVFI, however, has been try­ing to improve only under stu­dent guidance and without any professional assistance. 
WSND, although run by stu­dents, receives assistance from a designated chief engineer who monitors the station, ac­cording to Charles Clarke, sta­tion manager of Notre Dame's classical music FM station. 
Clarke noted that their "chief engineer makes sure we [WSND] do everything by the book and makes us aware of any types of infractions." 
If WVFI were to make the switch, they would also need to employ an engineer, but ac­cording to Lanan, everything is contingent upon a period of sustained professionalism by the WVFI staff. 
"The students need to carry the ball," stated Lanan. "The university has expressed that it would be willing to get a part or full time chief engineer but they would have to be professional for at least a year before any investments are made." 
If WVFI were to go FM, not only music but an image of the university would be broadcast over the airwaves, said Clarke. 
"People come to associate what they hear on the radio with the university," he ,said. "People call up WSND and com­plain if we ever mispronounce the name of a German compos­er and act like all the students are dumb." 
Aside from these complica­tions, student support and feed­back has also been questioned by Lanan and Cassidy. 
Surveys distributed last year revealed that WVFI has over 90 percent of student body sup­port. 
But according to Lanan, "when WVFI did the survey, they phrased the questions in such a manner that it came back the way they wanted. The question about music prefer­ence was not open-ended." 
Cassidy also felt that the re­sults were misleading. 
"The student body is in sup­port of WVFI going FM but when you ask if they will actu­ally listen to it, the number drops dramatically," said Cas­sidy. 
Cassidy believes this may be related to the lack of popularity of their programming. 
"We've turned WVFI on in 
see WVFI I page 6 


The Observer/Kevin Klau 

Lou's Looking Good 
Lou Holtz' condition continues to improve following his surgery. The symptoms of his spinal ailment are disappearing and he should be able to leave the hospital after the weekend. 

Study ranks law school faculty fifth in nation 
By MARY KATE MORTON 
Associate Nc:ws Editor 
In a recent study conducted by the Princeton Review, the Notre Dame Law School faculty soared to the number five spot in the nation and the quality of life peaked at number eight. Only Boston University, Cornell University, the University of Chicago and the University of Texas lead the Notre Dame fac­ulty, according to the survey which polled students at 170 American law schools. 
Ranking ahead of Notre Dame in the quality of life cate­gory were, in order, Northeast­ern, Washington and Lee, Yale, the University of California at Davis, the University of Vir­ginia, Vanderbilt and Franklin Pierce. This rating included such factors as sense of com­munity and relationships be­tween students and faculty. The Princeton Review 1995 Student Access Guide to the Best Law Schools declared Notre Dame the "nation's old­est and finest Catholic law 

see LAW I page 6 

Schedule Of Events 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 15 
12-2 p.m. 3:30-5:30 p.m. 4:30p.m. 4:45-6:00 p.m. 6:45p.m. 7:00p.m. 7:30p.m.  Alumni ­Senior Club for lunch Alumni Tours Marching Band Rehearsal Glee Club Rehearsal Band steps off for Rally Pep Rally Women's Soccer: ND vs. Mich. St.  South of Stadium Main Circle Main Building Crowley Hall Band Building JACC (Gate 10) Alumni Field  
SATURDAY , SEPTEMBER 16  
8:30a.m. 8:30-12:30 p.m. 9:30a.m. 10:00-10:30 a.m.  Marching Band Rehearsal Alumni Hospitality Center AA Meeting Cheerleader Performances  Loftus Center JACC North Dome esc ND Bookstore  
10:40-11:00 a.m. 11:30-12:00 p.m. 12:00-12:30 p.m. 12:00-12:45 p.m. 1:10 p.m. 1:30 p.m. 4:30-7:00 p.m.  Chearleader Performances Glee Club-ND in Review Shenanigans Performance Marching Band Concert Marching Band Pre-game Show NOTRE DAME VS. VANDERBILT Candlelight Dinner Buffet  JACC, North Dome JACC, North Dome JACC, North Dome Main Building Notre Dame Stadium Notre Dame Stadium Dining Halls  
SUNDAY, S EPTEMBER 17  
6,7,8,9:30 & 11 a.m.  Mass  The Crypt  
12:00 p.m. 1,2 & 3:00p.m. 1,2,3,4,5 & 6p.m.  Women's Soccer: ND vs. Stanford Men's lnterhall Football Women's lnterhall Football  Alumni Field Stepan Fields Cartier Fields  



Students have their reasons 
Editor's note: This is the last of a five-part series examining the use of alcohol on our cam­puses. Names have been changed to protect the identity of those interviewed. 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE 
Assistant Nc:ws Editor 
SYR's. Formals. Tailgaters. Bars. 
As illustrated in the numer­ous polls taken by The Ob­server this week, students at Notre Dame drink alcohol. And there are varying reasons for it. While some students think that Notre Dame is not unlike other universities where students drink an abundance of alcohol, others still question-Is the atmosphere at Notre Dame one that encourages drinking? 
Student Government Vice­President Dennis McCarthy thinks so. 
"As freshmen, students be­come indoctrinated into an at­mosphere with alcohol present at parties," McCarthy said. "Parties are used as a means for meeting people around campus. Alcohol serves a social purpose, but this use can esca­late into binge drinking or even alcoholism. One complicating factor is that it is easier to find 
IWL6.Al.S. 
Under the Dome &Under the Influence 

social events with alcohol than ones without alcohol." 
Off-campus junior "Pam" said that Notre Dame students drink "because it's the norm around here." 
"It's a way for people to open up. It's kind of expected," she said. "At tailgaters, alumni have cars full of cases, and they're handing them out. There isn't much to do around here. There isn't much social life but drinking and going to bars. There are dorm parties, but what do you do in dorm parties but drink. Everywhere you turn, there's beer." 
For students who do not drink, "Pam" explained, there still is not much to do otT-cam­pus because there is no place to go within a reasonable walking distance. There is no strip to stroll as there are in most col­lege towns, as one Pangborn junior explained. Students must also be concerned about safety. 
"It's not like you can walk to 
the corner pizza parlor," 
"Pam" said. "Nothing is within 
walking distance. There are 
cabs, and there was Weekend 
Wheels, but when you want to 
leave, you want a car there 
right away." 
Some students say that they drink because there are few things to do socially. 

"Mary," an off-campus se­nior, said that people she knows at Notre Dame who drink excessively "are not will­ing to explore other options of having fun." 
According to Dan McNicholas, another off-campus senior, Notre Dame wouldn't be Notre Dame if people didn't drink. 

"It's part of the tradition," he said. "It's the accepted form of drug use on campus, and the alcohol policy allows it. At other schools, there are a lot more drugs, but at Notre Dame, there's more alcohol in lieu of drugs." 
Drinking stress away 
Many people drink to escape academic pressure and the stress of a daily routine. 
"The people that I know, es­pecially at Notre Dame, drink 

see ALCOHOL I page 8 
page2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, September 15, 1995 
• INSIDE COLUMN 


A rapping at 
the door 
"So, Brad, how did your date go?" 
It was the Friday night before the game against Northwestern. My room­mates and I were hanging out in our lounge room, catching up on the events of the evening. The clock 


read 3 a.m. and across Brad Prendergast the hall the splendid Associate News Editor slumber of our beds beckoned, but for now the four of us were content to relax in the peace and comfort that only a lazy late Friday night can provide. 
A cool breeze blew in from our first floor window of Stanford Hall as our talk centered on the next day's game against the Wildcats. 
"I don't see how we can score less than 35 .points against those guys·," I said. "Tell you what. If, by some miracle, we actually lose to Northwestern, I'll shave my goatee." 
"Is that bet for real?" Dan asked. 
"Sure." 

"Okay, then we'll hold you to it if we lose." 
"No problem. Guys, this is Northwestern we're talking about." 
Little did I know. 

Tim changed the subject: "Hey, Brad, let's hear about your evening. Are you going to 
see her again?" 

A knock on our door prevented me from answering. Standing in our doorway was a guy in his twenties with a Notre Dame hat on his head and a suitcase strapped over his shoulder. He looked at us within an impish grin on his face. 
"Hi, guys. How ya doing?" he asked. My roommates and I looked at each other with puzzlement. The man continued. 
"My name is Brett. I used to live in Stanford before I graduated." He stalled for a second. "This may sound a little weird, but I just flew up from Atlanta for the game, my plane came in late to South Bend, the hotels are booked, I saw your light on, and I was wondering if I 'tould bunk'here in your toom for the night." 
Now that's a proposal you don't hear every 
Friday. Tim, Matt, Dan, and I looked at each 
other, and then shrugged, as if to say, "What 
the heck?" 

"Sure, why not?" I motioned to Brett. "My 
name's Brad. Come on in." 

Our mysterious traveller came in and set 
his stuff on the floor next to one of our 
couches. An affable fellow, Brett introduced 
himself as a 1990 graduate of Notre Dame. 
He joined-in on our conversation, and before 
I knew it, he was telling us about some of the 
great Notre Dame games he'd been to, 
including the spectacular 17-16 win over 
Penn State in 1992. 

As the evening grew later and later, each of 
us gradually began to turn in for the night. 
Brett said he was getting up early to meet 
some friends at a tailgate party, so I shook 
hands with him, offered him one of the 
couches in the room to sleep on, and retired 
to the bedroom. The thought that he could 
rip us otT in the middle of the night crossed 
my mind, but I put it aside. We doubted it 
would happen, but if it did, it did. 
As it turned out, our instincts were right. 
The next morning, lying in the center of the 
coffee table in the lounge room was a check, 
made out to Dan, for $80, courtesy of our 
guest. $20 for each of us. 

But now that I think about it, Dan still 
hasn't given Tim, Matt, or me our share of 
the money. 
Hmmm. 

The views expressed zn the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• TODAY'S STAFF 

News Viewpoint Jamie Heisler Michael O'Hara Tom Moran Production Sports Belle Bautista Andy Cabiness David Diaz 
Graphics Lab Tech Chris Mullins Mike Ruma 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
U.N. announces three day suspension of airstrikes 
SARAJEVO Sarajevo airport will be re-opened
Serbs flee fallen towns
The United Nations announced a About 45,000 Serb refugees ~n arriving Wednesday in Banja luka from the towns without restrictions, the statement 
of Sipovo, Drvar, Jajce and Donti Vakul taken Croatian and Muslim troops.
three-day suspension of NATO said. 

Sertlralugee , Und­

mowment The agreement significantly advances the beleaguered effort to bring 3 1/2 years of bloodshed in Bosnia to an end and will allow NATO to move back from its open­ly aggressive stance, which has the Serbs bristling. It also eases tensions between the United States and Russia, which was enraged by the bomb­ing campaign, and adds impetus to mediators' efforts, which gained momentum last week with an accord among Bosnia's warring parties over a possible future polit­ical arrangement. 
Muslim-led government forces and Croat allies persisted mean­while in their ground campaign, easily capturing several key towns. Tens of thousands of Serb civilians were reportedly fleeing the advance. 
Faulkner may return to Citadel 
CHARLESTON, S.C. 
Shannon Faulkner, saying she was battling an "emo­
tional catastrophe" when she withdrew from The Citadel, 
said in court papers Thursday she might want to return 
to the military college. "I do not believe the gates of The 
Citadel should be shut on me for trying to accomplish the 
impossible," she said in an affidavit. In the document, 
she asked to remain as a plaintiff in the lawsuit she filed 
2 1/2 years ago. In other filings, attorneys for The 
Citadel argued it's too late for Nancy Mellette to take her 
place. Ms. Mellette is a senior at a North Carolina mili­
tary prep academy who wants to intervene in the case. 
Ms. Faulkner became the first female Citadel cadet last 
month but left school after a week because of the stress 
of the court fight and her isolation on campus. "I recog­
nize now that it was an impossible task to require myself 
to perform under the world's spotlight in surroundings 
where I did not even have a person to confide in," she 
said in the document. "I felt stranded, isolated and 
hated." But she said if other women were present "I 
would definitely consider reapplying to finish my de­
gree," she said. "I do not want to be alone again." 
Septuagenarian stalker 
MACOMB TOWNSHIP, Mich. 
He says she's stalking him, but she says she's just being friendly. Nonetheless, police have issued an arrest warrant for stalking against 79-year-old Frances Breiholz whose 80-year-old neighbor, John Papuga, maintains she has pursued him relentlessly for three years. Even though Breiholz could face a year in jail and $1,000 fine if convicted of the misdemeanor, Papuga said: "I just want to make sure she gets some help." Papuga says for three years, ever since he wore a red hat one day, Breiholz has been leaving him notes, calling, blowing him kisses and propositioning him in his drive­way. She said that Papuga is making up the allegations. She said he stays inside and she walks daily because she has diabetes. "I used to wave when I walked by, you know friendly, hi," she said. "What's wrong with that?" Papuga said the woman took his wearing of a red hat as a sign of love, then began wearing red clothes all the time to try to impress him. She also began leaving the notes and hanging around his house, he said. 
• INDIANA WEATHER 
Friday, Sept. IS 
Accu-Weather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
llndianapoli3 77° I 
ILL. 
• 
FRONTS: 
"T""T" .............. ~ 
cow WARM STATIONARY 

C 1995 AccuWaalhttr, Inc. 
Pressure ~ ~ ,..-/\
H L ffi ISS!~ 0 IZ3§ ~ t!.......!~ 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY V/.a Asaocleted P,... 
0 Bosnian"""""""''' ill! Croat-Seib and
airstrikes against Serb targets Croat ledellltion Bosnian-Serb Thursday after Bosnian Serb lead­ers agreed to withdraw heavy weapons ringing Sarajevo. 
The airstrikes will resume if the Serbs fail to withdraw the weapons, the United Nations said in a statement in New York. 
Bosnian Serb military and politi­cal leaders signed an agreement in Belgrade "in which they committed themselves to withdraw their heavy weapons from the 20-kilo­meter (12.5-mile) exclusion zone around Sarajevo," the statement said. 
In response, NATO and U.N. mili­tary commanders declared the 3­day suspension, the statement said. 
During the suspension, humani­tarian aid convoys will travel to Sarajevo on two roads through Serb territory that have been closed and it is expected that 
Kevorkian protests with costume 
PONTIAC, Mich. 
Dr. Jack Kevorkian arrived at court in homemade stocks and a ball and chain Thursday to ridicule his pros­ecution on assisted-suicide charges as a throwback to the Middle Ages. "Nobody with brains should take this seriously." he told reporters at the Oakland County courthouse, where he was arraigned in the 1991 deaths of 

two seriously ill women. "It's nuts." The retired patholo­gist wore cardboard stocks, his arms and head stuck through the holes. He also wore a mock ball and chain and signs that read "Common law of Middle Ages. What's next, the Inquisition?" and "Think this is a circus? You're right. But blame the seven Supreme Court jesters." Kevorkian, 67, took otT the items before enter­ing the courtroom. Fieger said if the government wants to rely on centuries-old common law, it should apply other traditional measures for suicide: "They should exhume the bodies, drive a wooden stake through the heart and bury them under the public highway." 
Surgeon amputates wrong leg 
TAMPA, Fla. 
By the time he discovered he was amputating the wrong leg of a diabetic, Dr. Rolando Sanchez was cutting through muscle, tendons and ligaments and had no choice but to continue. "I tried to recover from that sink­ing feeling," Sanchez told a hearing examiner. Sanchez admitted removing Willie King's left leg below the knee, instead of his right leg during the operation last February at University Community Hospital. Sanchez, 50, said he learned of the mistake during the operation after a nurse checked some paperwork midway through the surgery. "She was shaking her head, came back and was crying. Then I knew a mistake was made," said Sanchez. He broke down as he testified about going to see King, 52, after the operation. "I told him we had removed his left leg. I asked him how he was doing, how did it feel," Sanchez said. "He said: 'I thought we were going to do the right."' Sanchez said he told King: "That's right, but we did the left." King got a settlement of $900,000 from the hospital and $250,000 from Sanchez. 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
VIa Associated Press Graph/csNet 
AUanta 67 38 Columbus 81 56 Miami 84 60 Asbury Park 68 55 Dallas 89 71 Minneapolis 77 60 Baltimore 7 4 53 Denver 84 54 New Orleans 92 73 Boston 64 47 Joe, Montana 75 50 New York 70 53 Chicago 82 59 Los Angeles 87 67 Philadelphia 73 52 
Friday, September 15, 1995 
Football fans with God on their side 
By MAUREEN HURLEY 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
The Sisters of the Holy Cross continue their 150-year spon­sorship of Saint Mary's College. However, every Saturday afternoon, they unite to support another mission. 
Notre Dame football. 

·The fans in the stands are not the only people cheering for the men in blue and gold. According to Sister Marie Emile Dubois, the sisters crowd around televisionsin their Fighting Irish attire at game time. 
"You should hear us yell. We celebrate and really have spirit here -you can proba­bly hear us all the way in Chicago," she said. 
The die-hard fans rarely miss a play. "Since I was in grade school in Idaho, I've been an Irish fan," said Sister Mary Farrer. "When I'm working in the church, I'll take a radio in during the games and listen when I can without disturbing anyone." 
Sometimes, the cheering gets out of hand. "One sister has high blood pressure, and C"an only·watch half of the game because she just gets too excited," Sister Constance Mary Ackerson said. 

Wearing her Notre Dame emblem around her neck, Sis­ter Elizabeth Panero said, "There's a lot of wonderful spirit, with everyone getting into the action," said Panero, who transferred back to the convent after working in a high school library, where she was known as 'Sister ND.' "Just being around the specta­tors and the band brings about spirit and great joy." 
That spirit is unique to the campuses, according to the Sisters. "There's a spirit here that no other school in the world has, with all the tradi­tion, the heroes, and the love for our Blessed Mother," Farrer said. 
The sisters have an Irish dinner on Friday nights, and have their own pep rallies during the weekend. "We pray that no one gets hurt and for good sportsmanship," said Ackerson. "And, of course, we pray that they'll win." 
Along with pre-game prayers, there's also specula­tion. "I think they'll win the rest of the games, and do it for Holtz," said Dubois. "They'll pull together just like they did when the Gipper was here." 
IT'S NOT WORTH THE WEIGHT. 
~~~ 
(J-<1 {/ 
cDJ 

For better health and fitness, exercise. 
•

YAmerican Heart Association 
~ 
WfiiiD~~ 





®ff ®llll 

ffil®W®Ir~~ 
Daily Lunch Specials 
4 TV Screens 
The Observer • NEWS page 3 



Conference promotes AIT 
ID)~If[~ 
AsK ABOUT OuR WALL OF FLAME 
838 University Center 6502 Grape Road 
(between Service Merchandise & Best Buy) 
Phone 273-0088 
By JOE GALLAGHER 
News Writer 
Although many students com­plain about the heavy workload at Notre Dame, they tend to forget what a gift it is to be able to learn at all. For Ketherine Coleman (who graduated from Notre Dame in 1978), every day that she can communicate with her son Matthew is nothing short of a miracle. 
As Matthew grew up, it be­came apparent that he was un­able to communicate with oth­ers or understand what people were saying. At two years old, Matthew was misdiagnosed by Riley Hospital as being mentally retarded. Other doctors thought he had childhood glob­al aphasia, a brain disorder that prevents the formation of symbols in gestures, speech, and writing and the loss of memory as to what those sym­bols mean. One doctor said that if he didn't speak soon, he'd "amount to absolutely nothing." 
At age three, Matthew en­tered the South Bend Special Education Program. While there Mrs. Coleman met with more professioonal specialists, and she read Annabel Stehli's book The Sound of a Miracle. The book deals with Mrs. Stehli's daughter, Georgiana, and her recovery from autism as a result of Auditory Integra­tion Training (AIT). 
She then spoke with Sharon Hurst, an auditory training practitioner who received train­ing from the doctor who origi­nally administered the treat­ment to Georgiana Stehli. At first Mrs. Coleman was reluc­tant to admit Matthew to a pro­gram designed for autistic chil­dren, but fortunately decided to go ahead with the treatment. 
Matthew began the program unable to pronounce words like "kindergarten", remember his teachers' names, or sit still long enough for his parents to read him a book. By the fifth treat­ment he was able to pronounce words and names, and as the treatment progressed he lost more and more of his "retard­ed" qualities. 
Autistic children have hyper­sensitive hearing, and cannot distinguish a parent's voice from a toilet flushing or a car driving by outside. AIT acts as a sort of filter for these sounds, allowing the patient to pay at­tention to certain sounds over others. When Matthew was able to eliminate most of this sensory overload, it became apparent that he had been reading before he could speak, had a photographic memory for images and events, and had a natural genius for computers. Today, as a result of AIT, Matthew is a high-level autistic who can function as a normal child. 
Coleman has more ties to Notre Dame than just being a graduate; She is also the daughter of Prof. James Robin­son of the English Department and an employee of Ave Maria Press. She hopes that someday Matthew will be able to gradu­ate from Notre Dame, an un­thinkable feat for him until he underwent AlT. She also urges 
• SECURITY BEAT  
MON., SEPT. 11th  TUES., SEPT. 12th  
5:30 p.m.  An off·campus student  12:40 p.m. An off-campus student  
reported the theft of his wallet from a  reported the theft of her decal from  
locker room in the Joyce Center., .  ·  her-unlocked car while parked In the  
C01 lot. The decal was taped to her  
8:19 p.m.  A Knott Hall resident  windshield.  
was  transported  to  St. Joseph  8:34 p.m.  A Lyons hall resident  
Medical Center for treatment of a  was  transported  to  St. Joseph  
sports injury.  Medical Center for treatment of a  
sports injury.  

'---------------------~------. 


WeeklySpecials
Food and much more! 
Monday 25C Wings 

Tuesday & Wednesday More than just wings! 
Thursday Fea§_t for Four 
~1995 
•50 
Wings 

•Curly 
Fries . 



•One Drink Pitche{ 
other people who are affected by special needs children or adults to attend the Auditory Integration Conference, which will be held this Sunday at the Center for Continuing Educa­tion. The keynote speaker is Annabel Stehli, whose book The Sound of a Miracle intro­duced AIT to the United States in 1991 despite the fact that it was developed in Europe in the 60s. Mrs. Stehli has spent the last four years spreading awareness of the potential ben­efits of AlT. Dr. Neil Margolis, an op­tometrist who has developed techniques to help special needs children who don't re­spond to normal methods of treatment, will speak about the benefits of vision intervention programs like AlT. Dr. Sharon Hurst, who has a special needs son who graduated from law school, will give a general overview of what AIT is and what it can do. As mentioned before, the Au­ditory Integration Training and Vision Training Conference will be held this Sunday from 1:00 to 5:30 pm at the Center for Continuing Education. Mrs. Coleman would like to note that the conference will not be help­ful only to people who are af­fected by autism or retardation. Many doctors and pediatri­cians remain uninformed about this treatment, as evidenced by Matthew's diagnosis. Any stu­dents who wish to enter medi­cine or work with children would definitely benefit from learning about AlT.  
10:14.p.m. A Flanner Hall resi­dent reported the theft of his book· bag from outside the ROTC Bui!dlng. WEDS., SEPT. 13th 2:30 p.m. Security responded to a hit and run accident In the visitor's parking lot. 3:56 p.m. A Fisher Hall resident reported receiving harassing tete· phone calls. 10:00 p.m. A Granger resident was cited tor speeding on Juniper Road.  
"Our Lady on the Dome" As the river called "St. Joseph" flows softly towards its end it turns eastward at a city aptly named "South Bend" 'Twas here Fr. SorinJounded a university or the glory of God's reign he named it for "Our Mother" Notre Dame-Notre Dame ... So begins a beautiful eight stanza poem that belongs in every fan's home and office. Suitable for framing, the tribute is bordt:red in blue and gold. The spirit of the University sin­cerely expressed-makes a cht>r· isheJ gift. Send personal check or money order to: Pat O'Biock, P.O. Box 306, LaGrange, IL 60525 Allow 10 dllys ro 2 weeks for delivery. iNa~~-------------------, I -----------------:1Address 1I ----------------1•c·• tty s_______ tate __Zip __ I1 1 -.!Number of poems@ 12.95* each ___: 1 Total :I -----1! $2.50Total S&H _____: 1 Grand Toral :I -----1 :.*$1 .00 fram each saie will be donated to : I IL the Notre Dame Scholarship Fund 1 ----------------------~  ... I  


~--__, 

\ 

Friday, September 15, 1995 The Observer • NEWS 
Stone puts twist on Shakespeare 
By JIM DOWD 
News Writer 
The creative vision of Fredric Stone comes to the Little The­ater at St.' Mary's College this Sunday, September 17, at 7:30 
p.m. as he performs his criti­cally acclaimed, one-man tour de force "Will & Testament, A Life after Death Comedy." 
The show, completely written and performed by Stone, blends many of Shakespeare's mo~t famous monologues in an attempt to expose students to the fun and dramatic potential of Shakespeare in performance. Sponsored by Notre Dame and St. Mary's College, the show is just three dollars for students and four for all others. 
"Will & Testament" cele­brates the genius of William Shakespeare. Set in Heaven, this unique show fuses mono­logues of Shakespeare's most vivid characters into an origi­nal, contemporary storyline. The play follows a professional actor who is accidentally tram­p}ed to d~~th while bicycle rid­ing near Wrigley Field just after the Chicago Cubs clinch the division championship. In Heaven, the actor meets William Shakespeare in a hot­tub and is granted an audition for a new company being directed by the Bard and pro­duced by God himself. 
The play exposes students both to Shakespeare and mod­ern professional theater. Mr. Stone deliberately tones down the material in an attempt to present Shakespeare for "our generation." Most importantly, however, this "compilation show" attempts to discover a contemporary, relevant Shake­speare. 
Fredric Stone began his pro­fessional career on Broadway and toured the country with Zero Mostel in "A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum." He is currently a mem­ber of the Shakespeare Repertory in Chicago, a com­pany which has become pres­tigious nationally in the past five years. Mr. Stone has also performed at most Chicago the­aters as well as many regional theaters around the country. 
In addition to the Sunday ·evening performance, Mr. Stone invites all students and faculty to attend two workshops 

Thinking of south Bend? Think oakwood villas! 
• 
single family homes-villa concept 

• 
association landscaping & snow removal 

• 
8 models; 1200 to 1900 sq ft-or more 

• 
minutes from Notre Dame & StMary's 

• 
minutes from Blackthorn Golf Course 

• 
quick access to Toll Rd & shopping 

• 
as low as $110,000, including lot 



Miller Builders (219) 277-0337 OAKWOOD U' R Birkey & Assoc ~~V~IL!:!:L~AS!_j=====.l (219) 2 72-2 89 2 

on Monday, September 18. The first, entitled "An Actor's Ap­proach to Shakespeare" gives students the opportunity to ex­plore and perform scenes and monologues from Shake­speare's plays. It will be held at 1:00 p.m. in 110 Washiflgton Hall. The second, called "How to Pursue an Acting career and Survive" explores the practical preparation for a profession that is often rewarding, but dif­ficult and competitive. It will be held at.2:25 p.m. in 16 Regina Hall at St. Mary's. 
Have some­thing to say? Use Observer classifieds. 
I \ I 1\\ I Ill ~I l \\ I 1 IU I I ll ~ 
page 5 

NO CIBD launches first annual challenge 
By BILL CONNOLLY News Writer 
On October 1, the Council of International Business Devel­opment officially begins a program designed to teach students that managing money is based on an aware­ness of the events of their lives. 
The First Annual Portfolio Management Challenge intends to send this message of ethics in business to stu­dents while affording them the opportunity to compete for prize money. The more students put into the Challenge, the more they will be able to learn and win. 
Registration for the Challenge will begin on Wednesday, September 20, in room 101 DeBartolo at 8:30 p.m. 
Mr. Frank Potenziani, one of the founders of the CIBD, will speak to the students at Wednesday's meeting. Registration will also take place next week in the North Dining Hall. 
CIBD encourages all stu­dents to register, not just those in the School of Business Administration. The hope of the founders of the Challenge, Mike Carroll, Tim Maxwell, and Bill Partridge, is that it will unlock an inter­est in non-business majors and underclassmen to watch their money grow. 
The Challenge will last from 
\ ~ llt l I Ill ll I lllllll\ \I H l ll \ 
October 1 until April 1. The entrance fee will be $10 for CIBD members and $15 for the rest of the student body. Students can join in teams of two to four people who help each other in investing in dif­ferent stocks. 
The first prize will be worth $2,000 while the second prize will be $200. There will also be eight third prizes each worth $100. 
To participate, students will be given two million dollars to invest in common stock gov­ernment and municipal bonds. Students will be allowed to invest in a maxi­mum of 30 companies. They will be given transactions sheets on which they will put in their order and investment amount. 
Transaction sheets must be dropped off in a drop box or e-mailed in to the Challenge staff. All transactions must be made an hour before the Stock Market's closure, and will be locked during breaks from school. 
There will be monthly meetings for participants in the Challenge. The first meeting will be on October 4 with guest speaker Rao Chalasani. 
After the Challenge ends in April, there will be an awards ceremony for all the winners. 
For more information on the Challenge, students can e­mail the Challenge's founders at nd.pmc.1@nd.edu. 
OBSERVE THE WARNING SIGNS. 

\~~j) 
·~ I' 
H 
i 
: \ 
If you have che.st pain lasting two minutes or more, see adoctor. 
ftAmerican HeartV Association 
IC 1992, Amertcan Hoar1 Assoc1a11on 
FREE 
PHONE CALLS 
An exaggeration? Not if you're spending more than 25 bucks a month talking to people in Elkhart, Goshen, Bristol, Dunlap, Middlebury and Wakarusa areas. Why pay high long distance charges when you can pay a low flat montlhy fee? You can call as often and talk as long as you wish for only $23.00 per month. No special lines or installation needed. We can start your service today! 
1-800-360-4990 


1111 1(\ll\\ \lltl\1 ~I \Ill\ \I 'l I'll 11(1111\ ~\1111(11\\ ~lltl\\ ' I \ ll I ' \1 Iil I' \1 \1 Ill I l Ill I ~ ~I II\ II I I Ill l II\",I I l l ll I ~ I I 1: 1\ I~ \I I " I I'-It l I \I I ' \' \ Ill" 

On Notre Dame home football 

game weekends: 

OUTDOOR PAVILION 
Enjoy refreshments and watch other games on the BIG SCREEN TV while you wait for your table in our lighted pavilion. 
Pavillion Hours: 3:00p.m. to midnight on Fri. and Sat. Steak &Ale Restaurant 
2554 US 31 North* South Rend, IN 46637* 219/277-3766 
j 
-----------·------~----------~--­
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Friday, September 15, 1995 
WVFI 
continued from page 1 
LaFortune and students have asked us to turn it off," he said. "The reception is clear, you can hear it well but they just don't like the music." 
Although WVFI has not for­mally been asked to change their programming style . their is a sense that it should offer a greater variety. 
"On the continuum of alter­native music I'm not asking them to go all the way to the right. But I do think they should come just a little closer to middle progressive alterna­tive music to appeal to more listenership," stated Lanan. 
The station plans to be back on the 640 AM starting Sept. 18 with a new station manag­er. Maverick will continue as Sports Director for the station. 
Law 
continued from page 1 
school" and wrote that "Notre Dame's sheer ·academic strength is undeniable." 
"We are delighted with this great honor and that kind of recognition," said Associate Dean of the Law School Jack Pratt. According to Pratt, what distinguishes Notre Dame is the sincere concern the faculty has for its students; the law school emulates the idea of the Notre Dame family. "We have here a genuine sense of community among faculty and students," said Pratt. "We care about teaching and our students care about learning." 
Pratt believes that these dy­namics of the faculty/student relationship are what make Notre Dame special. He cites not only the outstanding faculty but the student body as an integral part of the law school. "Student reciprocation is a big part of what we are, " stated Pratt. "The faculty sees its stu­dents as whole people, not just faces in a classroom, and the students appreciate this." · 
The new survey follows a 1994 study that ranked the Notre Dame Law School third in student satisfaction. 
Watch for an update on the reconstruction of Club 23 in Monday's Observer. 


'Sports Fest' features ND personalities 
By BETSY BOWMAN 
News Writer 

While every home football weekend hosts hundreds of tailgate parties, on Friday, Sept. 2, the eve of the Texas game, South Bend will experi­ence a different kind of tail­gater. 
Instead of hot dogs and beer in the parking lot beside the stadium, this particular party will serve a full course meal in the LaSalle Hotel in downtown South Bend, one of the oldest and most beautiful hotels in the area. 
The event is the first annual "Sports Celebrity Fest '96" and it is being billed as the biggest party in town for the Texas Game. The festivities begin at 
4:30 p.m. on Friday, Sept. 22, and will continue until 11:30 
p.m. The price of admission is $25 per person, $45 for cou­ples and $10 for kids. All tick­ets include a pass for one half off the price of admission at the College Football Hall of Fame. 
The evening will feature a variety of Notre Dame sports personalities including Tony Rice, the 1988 National Cham­pionship team's quarterback rushing leader; Muffet Mc­Graw, the current women's' basketball coach; Mike Wadsworth, the University's new athletic director; Allen Pinkett, the all time rushing and touchdown leader; Vagas Ferguson, the second all time rushing leader; members of both the mens' and womens' basketball teams and many more. 
All these local celebrities will be on hand to sign autographs and some will address the crowd. Other entertainment will include the Glee Club, Notre Dame cheerleaders, and Shenanigans. Golf Pro Mark Hamilton will be there helping people with their golf swing, and the Torma mime group will also entertain the crowd. 
Aside from just the enter­tainment value, organizers of the event hope to raise twenty thousand dollars through tick­et sales and a sports memora­bilia auction. Some of the items on the block include Notre Dame paraphernalia, professional golf memorabilia and items from many profes­sional football teams. 

There will be a live auction as well as a silent one which will continue throughout the entire event. 
All proceeds from the evening will go to benefit "Home Management Services," a local organization which helps women to become better mothers and wives by teaching them how to run their homes more effectively and better care for their children. HMS staffs 40 trained counselors who work with the women both in the classroom and on an individual basis. 
"We are a proven program," said HMS director Gwenyth DeLee, "and the rest of the country is clamoring for pro­grams like ours. But we need money to make the program portable, so we decided on the 'Sports Celebrity Fest."' 
In the past the organization has held a "Fine Arts Night," but in order to reach a broader audience they altered the focus of the night to include the sports field as well. 
At the past events they have had between one hundred and one hundred and fifty partici­pants, but they are expecting as many as four hundred this year. 
Iris Outlaw, a member of the 
funds development board for 
HMS and also the director of 
multicultural student affairs at 
ND, explains the long-standing 
relationship between Notre 
Dame and HMS. 
"For the past eight years 
HMS has always had a Notre 
Dame or St. Mary's student as 
an intern and the international 
business club has done a great 
deal to help HMS with market­1ing and business in the past. 
Notre Dame students are 
attracted to HMS because they 
see the devotion that it has to 
strengthening society by 
strengthening the family." 
The task of organizing this 
event has been a momentous 
one, but DeLee remarked that, 
"things have been working out 
so well for us in planning this 
event. It's like God just really 
wants it to happen." 
Bed 'N Breakfast Registry 
7fi1 Michuma ~First Registry ofPrivatee=-Homes for ND-SMC Parmts and Frinuls 
Try the OPTION! 
Gr.oduacion, Football, JPW, Freshman Orientation, etc. 
W'Jma L B•lmke (219) 291-7153 


U.S. 20Byl'••  
i! J ;;;~·-­ 



or 
IRELAND sqUARE OUTPOST CEN'IER 

NOTRE DAME 
277-1166 
W..W.ns distance from N.D. 
Come in and sign a get well card for Lou! 
----~ ~ ---~----------­
----------------~­
Friday, September 15, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page? 
Britain announces its support for test ban 
By CAROLYN HENSON 
Associated Press 
GENEVA 

Britain on Thursday joined the United States and France in pledging support for a nuclear t~st ban treaty that would ex­clude even the smallest explo­sions. 
The decision increased pres­sure on China and Russia, the other two declared nuclear powers, to agree to a total ban. 
The British commitment be­fore the Conference on Disar­mament came as the 38-nation body assessed efforts to com­plete the complicated negotia­tions before the end of next year. 
"I wish now to put on record my government's position ... ," said Sir Michael Weston, head of the British delegation. He said the treaty should not per­mit any nuclear tests, "no mat­ter how small." 
He urged China and Russia to "confirm that they share this view too." 
All five nuclear powers were to state their positions on the scope of the treaty by last month, but only the United States and France had acted by then. 
Britain had hesitated to join the United States and France in supporting a total ban because of concerns it might need to conduct small tests to maintain its weapons, said British spokesman Geoffrey Perry. 
"We are now satisfied that we can do this without having to conduct tests," he said. 
Until this month, when France resumed nuclear testing at its site in the South Pacific, China was alone among the five powers not to join a testing moratorium that began in 1992. 
The French and Chinese say they need the tests to ensure the reliability of their arsenals and to collect data before the test ban comes into force. 
China has said it will abide by the treaty but its delay in com­mitting itself on the scope leaves doubts about how effec­tive the ban will be. 
Earthquake rocks Mexico 
By jOHN RICE 
Associated Press 
MEXICO CITY 

A strong earthquake de­stroyed scores of buildings in southern Mexico on Thursday and shook the nerves of a re­gion preparing to commemo­rate the lOth anniversary of a disastrous 1985 quake. 
The government's Notimex news agency said four people died when houses collapsed near the epicenter of the quake in a rural, coastal region about 70 miles east of Acapulco and 190 miles south­east of Mexico City. 
The report could not be im­mediately confirmed. 
Officials in the states of Oax­aca and Guerrero said scores of adobe houses collapsed and many others were damaged by the force of the quak-e, the largest in Mexico since the great 8.1 quake of Sept. 19, 1985. 
Tens of thousands of Mexico City residents, some shouting and others weeping with fear, fled into the streets of the capi­tal when the ground began to roll with a sea-like motion at 8:04a.m. (10:04 a.m. EDT). 
The waves of the quake last­ed for nearly a minute. 
Earthquake centers in Mexico and the United States measured it at magnitude 7.2 to 7.3 and said it was centered in Guer­rero state near the town of Coapa. An earthquake of a 7 magnitude is a major quake ca­pable of widespread heavy according to Mexico's National Seismological Service. 

Emergency sirens shrieked across the capital and traffic suddenly halted on major high­ways as drivers stopped and jumped from their swaying cars. Crowds who had evacu­ated high-rises briefly blocked traffic. Nearly 50 houses, most of adobe, were destroyed and 80 others seriously damaged in the state of Oaxaca, according to officials there. 
But the only reports of in­juries in Oaxaca came from the town of Pinotepa Nacional, where three children were slightly hurt when the roof of a primary school collapsed, said Silverio Fernandez Santiago, a state official. 
In Mexico City, trading· in the glass-walled national stock market stopped dead for about 45 minutes. 
Elsewhere in the basin of 20 million people, a few windows broke, the power went out, and walls cracked from the strain. But the greatest damage ap­dreds died in when a quake collapsed the 15-story Nuevo Leon Building on Sept. 19, 1985. 
The federal Interior Ministry reported that 25 people were hospitalized Thursday for ner­vous collapse. It said there were no reported injuries or deaths. 
Calm returned quickly for most, but not for Rosa Calzada, who remained on Ute sidewalk in front of the 20-story Ver­acruz building four hours after the quake, too afraid to return to her fourth-floor apartment. Reporters saw cracks nearly two inches wide in some of the walls: 
In the park next door, where the Nuevo Leon building had stood, workmen were white­washing a new monument be­ing raised to victims of the 1985 quake. 
"There was a lot of panic, es­pecially among adults" on Thursday, said Sofia Siegler, an architect. "They live with the image (of 1985.)" 
That quake, recorded at 8 .1, killed at least 6,000 people and destroyed or badly damaged thousands of buildings. It prompted tougher new building standards and the creation of new civil defense organizations. 
Most Mexican quakes occur along a long swath of coastline from the Guatemalan border to a point near Puerto Vallarta, where the Cocos Plate of the earth's crust is thrusting under the North American Plate. 
While Mexico City is often hundreds of miles away from the epicenter, it is vulnerable because much of it sits atop the muddy sediments of drained lake beds. 
Zhirinovsky assaults colleague 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 
The Russian prosecutor gen­eral's office has opened an in­vestigation into ultranationalist Vladimir Zhirinovsky's week­end brawl on the floor of par­liament. 
Investigators will be looking at charges of "extreme hooli­ganism," Alexander Zvyagint­sev, a spokesman for the pros­ecutor's office, told reporters Thursday. 
As a legislator, Zhirinovsky enjoys immunity from prosecu­tion. But parliament has the power to strip him of his im­munity. 
The investigation comes at the request of Ivan Rybkin, speaker of the Duma, the lower chamber. 
In Saturday's brawl, Zhiri­novsky manhandled a col­league, Yevgenia Tishkovskaya, grabbing her by the hair and the throat. On Wednesday, he said she probably enjoyed it. 
"Such women dream of being raped, but no one wants them," he said of his victim, a 4 7 -year-old mother of four. "They like standing next to strong male bodies." 
The scuffie and Zhirinovsky's ugly statement have sparked a huge outcry. On Thursday, two lawmakers, Ella Pamfilova and Vladimir Lysenko, called on colleagues to relieve Zhirinovsky of his duties to "save the honor of our parlia­ment." 



-------------~------­
Alcohol 
page 8 
continued from page 1 
for escape from problems, out of a lack of wanting to confront problems," "Mary" said. 
According to "Carrie," a Pangborn freshman, drinking is "a good way to relax at the end of the week." 
"My classes sometimes get too difficult," said a Carroll ju­nior. "When I go out, I defi­nitely want to go out in style," he said. "It's like a stress relief, and I just feel I need to relieve myself plenty." 
One sophomore transfer stu­dent said that she drinks as "an escape from reality. It's a way to get away from so much pres­sure, especially here. I didn't see it at my other school." 
·Another Fisher sophomore agreed that drinking is "a re­lease from built-up anxiety." 
While these students may provide an explanation for the excessive drinking they think occurs at Notre Dame, others feel that there is not a problem. 
No problem here 
"Reflecting from the four pre­vious articles {part of The Observer's series), people think that Notre Dame students drink 
A Grand Prize 

Off-campus resident Anne Ridley is presented with the bicycle helmet she won in last week's Bike­
To-School Day Raffle. 
Bush visits Japanese 
By PETER lANDERS 
Associated Press 
TOKYO 
Former President Bush ad­dressed a gathering Thursday of a group tied to the Rev. Sun Myung Moon's Unification Church, ignoring accusations he was lending his name to an unscrupulous cult. 
As Bush urged the crowd to "devote ourselves to finding ways to strengthen the fami­ly," Japa,nese mothers were standing outside passing out leaflets and describing how their families were split apart by the church. 
"They are like manipulated puppets," Teruko Honma, leader of one opponents' group, said of the young fol­lowers of Moon. 
. Bush a"'d former first lady Barbara Bush spoke before 50,000 people at the Tokyo Dome stadium in an assembly of the Women's Federation for World Peace, which is headed by Moon's wife. 

The legends of college football come to life at thP new College Football Hall of Fame! Action-packed interactive displays put you in the middle of the game, while reflective photo galleries and time-honored artifacts 
celebrate the history and lore of college football's greatest athletes and coaches. 
Explore the culor and pagear.try of the world of college football ­an experience the whole family is sure to enjoy!
Knule Rockne, Coach . Noire Dame. 1918-30. Indue led 1951 

College Eootball Hall o Eame 
South Bend, Indiana • (219) 235-9999 
Pholograpn courlesy ol Sludebaker Nalronal Museum. Inc. 
in abundance," said "Katie," a Howard junior. "A lot of people here come out of high school without having experienced al­cohol. When they come here, they get overwhelmed. But, in reality, this goes on at every university-kids drink." 
And, according to some stu­dents, their motives for drink­ing have nothing to do with at­tending Notre Dame. 
"It's the social scene," said a 
The Observer/David Murphy The pre-football game tailgater, like this one before the Northwestern game, is for many an integral part of the Notre Dame experience. 
Breen-Phillips junior. "It's what you do for fun and to meet people. It makes you con­fident and relaxed. My friends drink because they like to, and they like what they're drinking. Going to bars gives you a chance to be with a lot of peo­ple your own age at the same time." 
Fisher sophomore "Tim" drinks for several reasons. "It's a good bonding experi­ence," he said. "It's a good form 
The Observer/Damlan Giangiacomo 

of security. It lets down your boundaries. You act like you wouldn't normally act. It helps you forget about everything else; everything else dis­appears-because it's a drug." 
Another Fisher sophomore 
echoed "Tim's" motives. "I 
drink to get wasted. to enjoy 
the feeling," he said. 

Drinking is more of an indi­
vidualized preference, accord­
ing to Russell Williams, an off­
campus junior. 

"Sometimes I'll have a couple of beers, and sometimes I'll have a lot. There's no single reason why I drink," Williams said. "I don't drink because of peer pressure. I think that no­tion is ridiculous. I think the key is you have to be responsi­ble for your actions." 
"Mary" agreed. "Some people can go out and have a couple of beers and enjoy a decent con­·versation. I don't think that Notre Dame is so different from 
other schools." 

Explaining why the polls may 
present Notre Dame as a 
"binge-drinking" school, 
"Mary" said, "Most people here 
are of Irish heritage and boast 
about their drinking, which can 
affect the polls." 

~----~~~---------~-~--~ ---­
Now Available at the Notre Dame Bookstore 
Friday, September 15, 1995 
Crime lab questioned 
ByCAROLYNSKORNECK 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Allegations from within that the FBI crime lab cannot be trusted could throw hundreds of cases into question nation­wide, given the vast scope of its work and its standing as the nation's preeminent police lab­oratory. 
FBI officials said a review of 250 cases has found no prob­lems so far, but Attorney Gen­eral Janet Reno said Thursday she had ordered the Justice Department's inspector general to investigate the allegations by Special Agent Frederic White­hurst. 
Whitehurst, a chemist, has alleged that FBI testimony re­garding crime lab evidence was rigged or slanted in some cases to help the prosecution. 
Some of the biggest cases in recent years are being investi­gated, including the O.J. Simp­son trial, the World Trade Cen­ter and Oklahoma City bomb­ings and a Georgia mail bomb­ing case. 

Friday, September 15, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 9 
Senate chooses not to pursue entry in diaries 
By LARRY MARGASAK had with Gramm, who now is Associated Press running for his party's presi­
Replacement to be elected by mail
dential nomination. In 1992, 
WASHINGTON 

The Senate Ethics Committee will not pursue an entry in Sen. Bob Packwood's diaries, in which he asserted that Sen. Phil Gramm intended to send GOP money to Packwood in vio­lation of contribution limits. 
"The committee has reviewed this matter and has concluded that no further action will be taken by the committee," con­cluded a letter to Gramm, R­Texas, on Thursday from Chairman Mitch McConnell, R­Ky. and Vice Chairman Richard Bryan, D-Nev. 
Packwood, R-Ore., an­nounced his resignation last week after the ethics panel voted 6-0 to expel him for sex­ual and official misconduct. The wrongdoing included Pack­wood's altering of his diaries when he learned they would be subpoenaed. 
The committee -released more than 10,000 pages of investiga­tive documents. including the diaries. 
A March 6, 1992, entry de­scribed a meeting Packwood Gramm headed the GOP's Senate campaign committee. 
Packwood said the Texan promised to funnel $100,000 in party "soft" money to Pack­wood's campaign-funds that can be used only for party­building activities such as get­out-the-vote drives and phone banks. 
"What was said in that room would be enough to convict us all of something," Packwood's diary entry said. It added: 
"He (Gramm) says, now, of course, you know there can't be any legal connection between this money and Sen. Packwood, but we know that it will be used for his benefit." 
Packwood went on: "I think that's a felony. I'm not sure. This is an area of the law I don't want to know." 
Gramm was referred to as Senator X, although he and Packwood acknowledged the reference was to the Texan. The entry was in an original version of the diaries but was deleted from an altered ver­sion. 
By BRAD CAIN Associated Press 
SALEM, Ore. 

Oregon voters will select Sen. Bob Packwood's replacement in the nation's first congressional election to be held by mail. 
The prima-
· ry will be held Dec. 5 and the gen­eral election Jan. 30, Gov. J o h n Kitzhaber an­nounced 
Thursday. Packwood The winner will be sworn in Feb. 2. Kitzhaber had the option of calling a primary election or al­lowing the parties to select their nominees, a process that would have been faster. "But ultimately, I believe that in this instance, with as much as three years remainipg in Senator Packwood's term. the value of giving Oregonians the chance to vote in the primary election outweighs the 45 to 60 
days we would save by not hav­ing a primary," said Kitzhaber, a Democrat. 
Packwood announced Sept. 7 that he would resign over charges of sexual and official misconduct. The Republican leaves office Oct. 1. 
Oregon has been conducting local elections by mail since 1981. 
The state's election law allows the secretary Of state to decide on a case-by-case basis whether to hold an election by mail. Both Secretary of State Phil Keisling and the governor supported it for the Senate election because, they said, it would be cheaper than setting up polling places. 
Kitzhaber vetoed a bill this summer that would have or­dered all Oregon elections con­ducted by mail. He said the Legislature needed to study the issue more before getting rid of traditional polling places for good. 
Some Democrats and Repub­licans alike had complained that a strict vote-by-mail sys-tern would open the door to fraud and do away with the American tradition of getting out to vote on election day. Backers of the idea argued that mail voting saves money. 
Democratic Rep. Ron Wyden, one of the candidates for Pack­wood's seat, supported holding a primary to select the nomi­nees. 
"There is a risk that if we don't involve the people of Ore­gon in this decision, then the cynicism and feeling of disen­franchisement that has oc­curred as a result of the Pack­wood matter will unfortunately continue," Wyden spokesman Josh Kardon said. 
But another Democratic con­tender, Rep. Peter DeFazio, said the seat needs to be filled quickly. "To stretch this elec­tion out to next year is going to put the state at tremendous risk," he said. 
Ballots will be mailed to registered voters about three weeks before the primary and general elections. 


Sweaters, Wall Hangings, Jewelry, Accessories, and Much Morel Guatemala•Peru•Mexico•Nepai•Thailand•lndia•Ecuador 
Incredible Prices! 
•3~. 
of profits funds the education of 3 Guatemalan children (up to $1500 for 1995) 

•ANY 
coins toseed in our jar -Greatly Appreciated! They add upl 


Notre Dame  5t. Mary'e;  
Nov. 27-Dec.2 ONLYI  September 12 -15  
In front of Ha~~ar • Windy or Rainy Weather • LeMana Hall  


Orientation Sessions 
Every Sunday (Beg. Sept. 17} 12:30-2:00 Every Other Thursday (Beg. Sept. 14} 5:30-7:00) 
All participants must complete an orientation session before they can have "open" use of the wall. Advance registration at the Rockne front desk is required and space is limited. 
For more info. call 1-5297 
Gunman roams school hallway 
By JAMES PRICHARD Associated Press 
WORTHINGTON, Ohio 

A woman threatened by an old boyfriend sought refuge in a school Thursday, but the man followed her inside and roamed the hallways with his gun drawn. 
Pupils were evacuated into a nearby auditorium, but at least a couple saw the man wander­ing the halls, Lt. Bob Oppen­heimer said. At one point, the man pulled the gun on an ad­ministrator. but did not shoot. 

Not a Franchise! 

A Family Owned Business 
257--1100 
"This is How Pizza is Supposed to Taste" Authentic New York Pizza Calzones • hot and Cold Subs • Stromboli 3 and 6 foot Party subs 
For Fast Delivery Call273..2EAT 
$2 off large pizza with Student ID 
No one was injured and the children were reunited with their parents about three hours later. 
Ronald E. Thompson, 22, met his former girlfriend in the parking lot of Griswold Chris­tian Academy in this Columbus suburb at 2:30 p.m., Oppen­heimer said. He wanted her to get into the car, but when she refused, Thompson threatened to kill her, shooting at least once, he said. She was not hit. 
She ran into the school, where she works in the day care center, and Thompson fol­lowed. The wo~an's name was not released. 
Dave Maxwell, who was working across the street from the school, said he saw three people crawl out of a window during the standoff. 
SWAT officers and dogs searched the school for the gunman, but found no one, Op­penheimer said. 
Thompson.· of Columbus, turned himself in at Grant Med­ical Center Thursday night, Capt. Mike Mauger said. 
He was charged with two counts of attempted felonious assault, and one count each of attempted murder, kidnapping and aggravated burglary, 
The school has 50-60 pupils in preschool through ninth grade, Oppenheimer said. 
At one point, a van trans­ported 10 to 12 children from the school to the auditorium, which is in an adjacent build­ing. However, the van drove to where parents were waiting, stopped and then took the chil­dren to the auditorium. 
Parents were crying and yelling at police to bring their children back. Two women in the crowd collapsed. 
Officer K.L. Trissel said the van was supposed to go from the preschool directly to the au­ditorium, but the driver misun­derstood his directions. 
B.J. Vest said his 4-year-old girl. Caitlin, was among the children in the van. 
"I saw her and she was screaming," he said. 


"Consider the cost of room and board for the next several years. Now, consider $298* per month at North Shore Club" 
A great investmentfor students, parents and alumni. 
• 
Condominiums and townhomes as low as $49,900 

• 
Just minutes from Notre Dame 


Furnished modl'ls on displa~
• Vacation home for game weekends 
Thursday through Monday 1-S P\1. 
• 
No exterior maintenance or hy appointment 

• 
Beautiful waterfront settings 



for more information 

Angela a/ the St. joseph Ri11er in South Bend •M<.,d!lypa)IOOJ~ol ~and I. h:ml"'"l"~ priceol$49,<)(1(11\ith I0%00..wlda.~~)<llr7%A.RM. Call (219) 232-2002 
page 10 The Observer • NEWS Friday, September 15, 1995 
State motor-voter law increases registration 
By LISA SHAPIRO Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Nearly 160,000 people have registered to vote in Indiana since the motor voter law took effect at the start of 1995. 
The law allows people to reg­ister to vote in Bureau of Motor Vehicles offices. public assis­tance and other municipal of­fices and by mail. It was aimed at increasing voter participa­tion. 
"We had no idea what to ex­pect," John Koenig, co-director of the Indiana Election Com­mission, said Thursday. "We're all pleasantly surprised by the turnout." 
Of the 159,173 people who registered to vote from Jan. 1 to Aug. 30, at least 42,303 did so by mail, he said. At least 

, 33,086 people registered in public assistance offices and at least 20,632 at motor vehicle offices. State officials have not finished compiling the data. In November 1994, nearly 70 percent of eligible voters, or 
2.97 million people, were regis­tered to vote. The current total was unavailable. 
Because counties were not required to provide the state with data on new registrations until this yelfl", a comparison between new registrations this year and in past years was not possible. 
But based on reports from county election officials, the new registrations represent an iacrease ·over· previous years, Koenig said. 
With a gubernatorial and presidential election in 1996, Koenig said the motor voter law could help the voter rolls to swell. 

"As '96 comes upon us and some more high profile elec­tions, I think the program will only continue to expand," he said. 
And while it's too early to tell how the law may effect the election or which political party may benefit, unions are hoping the law will help them make up for 1994, when Democrats lost a U.S. Senate election, all four elections for statewide office, control of Indiana House of Representatives and their ma­jority in the state's U.S. House delegation. 
Jerry Payne, secretary-trea­surer of the Indiana State AFL­CIO, said he doesn't leave home without the mail-in voter regis­tration forms. Since January, the union has registered about 20,000 people to vote, he said. 
"Every union meeting I go to, every time I meet with a group of individuals, I always have voter registration forms and encourage people to get regis­tered if they're not," he said. 
The law makes it so easy to register people that it's become the union's best shot of regain­ing control of the legislature, he said. 
"It's probably 80 percent of our game plan in terms of changing the political scene in the state of Indiana because the labor movement will never have the dollars to match the Republican party in contribu­tions," he said. 
But for their part, Republi­cans don't seem worried. 
"Just because you may regis­ter 500,000 people doesn't mean that 500,000 will vote. or vote for your party," said John Willey, executive assistant to the chairman of the state GOP. 
Standby drug replaces AZT in effectiveness 
By PAUL RECER Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
A drug regarded as a standby choice against HIV may actual­ly be better at helping patients survive than AZT. the drug now used as the primary weapon against the AIDS virus. 
A drug called ddi, already in wide use, has been found to be more effective than AZT when w;ed either alone or in combi­nation with AZT, according to a study released Thursday by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. 
A combination therapy that included another drug, called ddC, also surpassed AZT alone, the study shows. 

In part of the study, there were 50 percent fewer deaths among patients on ddi than on AZT. Researchers said this finding alone could lead to a re-evaluation of the drug thera­pies now prescribed for HIV. 
"We have shown that we can prolong survival" by using drugs other than AZT alone, said Dr. Scott Hammer of Harvard Medical School and New England Deaconess Hospital, a co-chairman of the study. 

'The BeBt Tan Under The Sun" 
• 
lkds, Booths & Euros 

• 
Open 1 Days AWeek 

• 
Convenient Hours 

• 
Student Discounts 


Guaranteed Satisfaction! 
256-9656 
GIW'£ lit MdCooEY NFAIK·MAn 

The Observer/Damian Giangiacomo 
Wanted: Posters 

Two shoppers contemplate some of the myriad selections at the Lafortune poster sale. 
If you see news happening, call The Observer at 1-5323. 

Happy Birthday 
Ashlei8h 
We Love You! Dad, Mommy (9 Whitney 
Holy Cross Mission in Coachella, CA Seminar 
January 4-11, 1996 
A weeklong immersion experience with the Hispanic and Native American peoples ofthe region ... 
Informational meeting Wed. September 20@ 7:30p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns (C. S.C.) 
Some knowledge of Spanish required 
'8 0 0 
0 
0 0 
0 0 0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
c 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 0 0 


Friday, Seprember 15, 1995 The Observer. NEWS page 11 
Hurricane hits Caribbean Balloonists shot down 
By DANIEL HlERSO 
50 miles 

by Belarussian military 
PUERTO ~oo
Associated Press 
RICO St. Thomas ·~ ~ 
. ·ff~ 
MARTINIQUE 

The fourth hurricane to hit the Caribbean in as many weeks -this one named Mari­lyn -raced westward on Thursday, menacing islands from Barbados to Puerto Rico. 
Marilyn threatened to brush past St. Martin, the Dutch­French island devastated by Hurricane Luis last week. 
This year's hurricane season is one of the busiest on record, according to the U.S. National Hurricane Center in Miami. There were 14 named tropical storms and hurricanes by Sept. 14 in 1936 and 1993; this year has seen 13. 
With 2 1/2 months to go, the season that began June 1 seems set to maintain the fre­netic pace set by Hurricane Erin, followed by Hurricane Fe­lrx, Tropi·cal Storm Iris and Hurricane Luis. The season runs until Nov. 30. 
Heavy seas and rain squalls hit Martinique's north coast on Thursday, and the airport, schools and some businesses were closed as Marilyn passed just northeast of the French is­land. 
Winds up to 80 mph bent co­conut trees and ripped off their palm fronds, littering the streets of Fort-de-France, the capital. 
Scattered power outages were reported. Some residents in low-lying areas were evacu­ated to shelters. 
Next in line was Dominica, which lost 90 percent of its vital banana crop to Hurricane Luis last week. Schools, businesses and government offices closed as skies darkened and rain pelted the island. 
Earlier Thursday, Marilyn 
power lines and uprooted trees 
· -Tortola. • 
\ o0 l?Virgin Gortia A ·u 50km 
·San ~<>"' ·· nQUI a Juan ~St.John\s\al'O .&.·.St. Martin Atlantic 
,_....__ Vleques VIr \fl ~· ...... 
I. Maarten ¥' Ocean 16' 
St.Croix· ·· = ·~ ·~ 
--Barbuda Caribbean Sea Saba r St. Eustaflue · ­
~ st. KJtts . ··. .. . Leeward
-17"
Hurricane Marilyn 
JJ:i.ff--P=lslandd 
Conditions as of 
'jJMonteerrat 
Thurs. 2p.m. EDD 
Guadaloupe~ Deslrade
15.0N, 60.8W 
. -16'
Max. winds: 80 mph 
~ .• 0· Marte GalanteGusts at 100 mph 
I.e$ Sainles ""' f't:
Moving WNW at 15 mph 
YOomlnica 

Hurricane JiMarilyn Its• BERMUDA • 
watch Martinique~ 
nt;& ~ Atlantic . 
Hurricane
tf.'\ Ocean 
~ St. lucia ·ft:. 
, ;;;\. .~ DOMINICAN 
-.kJ 14° 
''=>~PUBUC 
Windward . . Barbados 
Islands () St. Vince~
~~ ~ 
HAITI t;..... 
Bequla J!! 13• s RICO ·~ 
C4rlbbetvt PUERTO t \t ·· 
14 Lmer -, 
,.. Antilles • 
'I' ' The Grenadines
1 
,. I 

64" 63' 62' (J 61" ~) 60'· 
Source: Accu-Weather Inc. AP/Carl Fox 
By EVAN PEREZ 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 

John Stuart-Jervis survived the most perilous of assign­ments as a British Royal Navy pilot. 
From the Suez Canal crisis of 1956, when his plane was shot down by Egyptian forces, to jungle warfare in Southeast Asia, "he was always where the trouble was," said his wife, Caroline. 
On Tuesday, the retired avia­tor was killed when his sport balloon was shot down by the Belarussian military during an international race. 
"Ever since he was old enough to fly he did," Mrs. Stu­art-Jervis said Thursday in a telephone interview from her home in Naples. "If he had to go, I know in my heart this is the way he would want to go." 
Stuart-Jervis, 68, and anoth­er pilot, Alan Fraenckel, 55, both of St. Croix, U.S. Virgin Islands, were killed. 
Belarussian authorities said the balloonists failed to respond to warning shots and to radio demands for identifica­tion. Another balloon landed safely, and its occupants, also Americans, were taken into custody by the Belarussians. 
Mrs. Stuart-Jervis said she doesn't believe the Belarussian explanation. "They shot down defenseless people," she said. 
"They owe the world an apol­ogy. They owe all the balloon­ists in this world an apology," Fraenckel's cousin Rebecca Dale said in Scotia, N.Y., where Fraenckel's father lives. 
Stuart-Jervis and Fraenckel were representing the U.S. Virgin Islands in the annual Gordon Bennett gas balloon race, a contest to see which balloon can fly the farthest. The balloons took off from Switzerland, drifting across the continent. 
Fraenckel, a former Navy pi­lot, worked for TWA and had flown for the airline for 27 
Please Recycle 
The Observer 
years. 
"He flew competitive events whenever he could. He ar­ranged his flight schedule with airplanes so he could be home to go to the events," said bal­loonist Frank Bowlander, who lived near Fraenckel's second home in Ballston Lake, north of Albany. 
Mrs. Stuart-Jervis said her husband took up ballooning six years ago as an extension of his love of flying. Although she didn't share his passion for fly­ing, the fact he was a pilot sealed· her love for him. 
"Flyboys are always so ro­mantic," she said. 
She said her husband fought in Malay and Borneo after World War II and later Viet­nam. After his plane was shot down over Egypt in 1956, he ejected from his aircraft and landed in the water, where he was rescued by French forces, his wife said. 
The two were married in 1959, and she nervously watched him go off to various dangerous assignments around the world until he retired from the British Navy in 1968. They moved to the United States a year later. 
Stuart-Jervis lived at their home in St. Croix so he could represent the islands in the race, while she temporarily moved to Naples to work as a real estate agent since the mar­ket was depressed on the islands. 
He owned Commercial Bro­kerage, a real estate firm in St. Croix. His wife said he also gave flying lessons, and did search-and-rescue missions in the Virgin Islands. 
Mrs. Stuart-Jervis said her husband had told her his race in Europe would be his last. He said his arthritis was forcing him to reduce his flying. 
"I don't know if I really be­lieved that," she said. "He couldn't do that. He's never been happier than when he was in the sky." 

o-e~~ 
South Bend, Indiana 46635 • (219)272-6702 
Chmese, Vietnamese, & American Food 
Lunch 11 :OOa.m.-3:00p.m. Dinner menu will be served after 3:00p.m. 
15 Years of Service Award The Chamber Of Commerce St. joseph County 
"Enjoy a unique experience in Oriental Dining" 
• 
Fresh Ingredients 


•Lunch 
Specials starting at $3.50 


includes: egg roll, soup and tea 
• 
Dinners starting at $5 

•Private 
Dining Booths 

•Custom 
cooking with no MSG 

• 
Vegetarian Menu 


•15 
Years of Service Award 


For Reservations & Carry Out Call: 272-6702 
For Dine-In Delivery Call: 
272-2328 


in Barbados, about 150 miles southeast of Martinique, said Clive Lord of the Barbados gov­ernment's Central Emergency Relief Organization. No injuries were immediately reported. 
Southern Barbados, where most of the island's tourist re­sorts are located, was unaf­fected. 
Hurricane warnings were posted as far west as Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands and as far north as the Dutch half of St. Martin. Forecasters urged boaters to secure their vessels by Friday morning. 
Luis sank 200 boats among hundreds that sought safe har­bor in St. Martin last week. 
In Puerto Rico, Gov. Pedro Rossello announced that banks will be open only until 11 a.m. Friday and that schools, uni­versities and government of-flees will be closed. The-Na­tional Weather Service's San Juan office urged people to take the warning seriously, fearing they might ignore it because of the number of storms. 
It was too soon to say whether Marilyn posed a poten­tial danger to the U.S. main­land. 
At 5 p.m. EDT, Marilyn's cen­ter was near Dominica, accord­ing to the National Hurricane Center in Miami. It was headed west-northwest at nearly 15 mph and was expected to slow as it made its way to the ex­treme northeastern Caribbean late Thursday. 
Hurricane-force winds ex­tended up to 30 miles from the center, with tropical storm­force winds in a band up to 90 miles beyond that. 

page 12 The Observer· WASHINGTON NEWS Friday, September 15, 1995 
Powell faults Reagan and Bush in new book 
ByJOHN KING 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
In his new book, retired Gen. Colin Powell writes that he wishes Presidents Reagan and Bush had "shown more sensi­tivity" on race relations. He also sharply disputes Dan Quayle's account of the former vice president's role in halting a coup attempt in the Philippines. 
"In "My· Ainerican Journey," which goes on sale Friday, Powell recounts his rise through the Army to the mili­tary's top position, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. And he discusses his interest in a pos­sible presidential run, although he says he has not yet felt the "calling" that he believes is necessary to make a run. 
In discussing his job as a se­nior adviser to Reagan and Bush, Powell condemns an ad used by the 1988 Bush presi­dential campaign focusing on Willie Horton. a black Mas­sachusetts inmate who raped a white woman while on a prison furlough. 
"Was the ad depicting the in­cident racist? Of course. Had it bothered me? Certainly," Pow­ell writes. "It was a political cheap shot." 
To Powell, it was also evi­d.ence ofthe Republican Party's shortcomings when it came to race relations. 
"Never in the two years I worked with Ronald Reagan and George Bush did I detect the slightest trace of racial prejudice in their behavior," Powell writes. "They led a party, however, whose princi­pal message to black Ameri­cans seemed to be: lift yourself by your bootstraps. All did not have bootstraps; Some did not have boots. I wish that Reagan and Bush had shown more sen­sitivity on this point." 

In previously released ex­cerpts and interviews, Powell said he is considering a presi­dential bid, is dissatisfied with both political parties and be­lieves the country may be ready for a third major political party. But he has not said whether he would aft1liate with a party if he does run. 
He also criticized President Clinton's foreign policy, saying he rebuffed Clinton's offer to be secretary of state because of reservations about "the amor­phous way the administration handled foreign policy." 
Powell recalls being on the job as chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff just a few days when American troops were sent in to remove Manuel Nor­iega as president of Panama. He recounts the difficulties of managing the first military ac­tion that. because of improved technology. received virtually instantaneous media coverage. 
Not long before the Panama invasion, in November 1989, 
U.S. forces were used to put down a coup attempt against the government of President Corazon Aquino in the Philip­pines. 
At the time, Bush was flying to a U.S.-Soviet summit. In his book, "Standing Firm," Quayle recalls acting Secretary of State Lawrence Eagleburger saying "that if I hadn't been there, we might not have stopped the coup." 


The Hammes 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE "on the campus " 
Special Football Weekend Hours Friday 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. and Saturday Sam to 7pm 
Come join us for an autograph session with Murray Sperber, author of-"SHAKE DOWN THE THUNDER". Murray Sperber will be available Friday from 2 p.m. to 
5:30 p.m. and on Saturday from 9 
a.m. to 1 p.m. 

"Punctures much of the Irish mythology ...but the 
truth only makes the characters and their times more fascinating" -USA Today 
"The only book that explains why America's love­hate affair with Notre Dame exists" -Ed Shennan, 
Chicago Tribune 

Copies will be available on the first floor of the Notre Dame Bookstore. 
Court to rule on Clinton case 
By JIM SALTER 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS 
Allowing a sexual harassment case against President Clinton to proceed while he is in office would distract him from more important matters, a lawyer argued today before an appeals court. But appeals judges ex­

Clinton
pressed skepticism about such arguments. 
If the court rules that Paula Jones' case can proceed, it would open the door to lawsuits against sitting presidents by anyone who disagrees with his policies, Robert Bennett told a three-judge panel of the 8th 
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. 
"Essentially the president is a litigation magnet," he said. "Anybody in this country could walk into a federal court or state court and start us down that process." 
But Jones' lawyers said she should have the same rights as any other person bringing a lawsuit. Jones, a former Arkansas state employee, claims Clinton made unwanted sexual advances toward her in 1991, when he was governor of Arkansas. She said she de-
Celebrate a friend's birthday with an Observer ad. 
clined. 

Clinton has denied such an encounter took place and his lawyers have sought to dismiss the case on grounds of presi­dential immunity. 
In December, U.S. District Judge Susan Webber Wright refused to dismiss the case, but agreed to postpone the trial until Clinton leaves office. She also ruled that fact-fmding pro­cedures such as taking sworn statements from witnesses could proceed, but later stayed that order pending appeal. 
Both .sides appealed to the 8th Circuit -Clinton to ask that the lawsuit be thrown out; Mrs. Jones to ask that the trial go on and that Clinton not be allowed to delay his response to her lawsuit. The lawsuit, filed in May 1994, seeks more than $700,000 in damages. 
The judges expressed some skepticism today about Bennet­t's call for dismissal or at least postponement. 
"I think you can count on this court not dismissing the action. 
I don't think that's a possibility at all," Judge Donald R. Ross said. 
Judge Pasco M. Bowman said, "It's hard for me to imag­ine the presidency is going to stop if he has to deal with a civil lawsuit. He's a busy man but he has a lot of people to help him." 
Jones' attorney, Gilbert Davis, argued today that his client had a right to a fair and speedy trial as anyone else. 
Davis disagreed that prepar­ing for the trial would be a dis­traction for Clinton. He said lawyers could work around Clinton's busy schedule. 
"If the president says, 'You want me to give a deposition today. I can't do it -I've got a job to do.' That's all he has to say," Davis said. 
Mrs. Jones' lawyers have ar­gued that no one, not even the president. is above the law and have suggested that Clinton was trying to hide behind his office. 

r-------------------.---~--~--------------------------­
Friday, September 15, 1995 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 13 
ADlerican-Israeli iDlDligrants protest territory transfer 
By ARIEH O'SULLIVAN A.,sociated Press 
WEST BANK 

Shmuel Sackett, an immi­grant from New York City. says he and his fellow Americans can teach Israelis a thing or two about civil disobedience. 
In an effort to block the trans­fer of West Bank territory to the Palestinians, members of his Zu Artzeinu (This Is Our Land) protest movement have staged sit-ins on disputed hilltops and laid down on highways. 
American immigrants com­prise only about a tenth of the Jewish settlers in the occupied lands, yet have taken the lead in anti-government protests, of­ten using tactics borrowed from the U.S. civil rights movement. Now some Israelis fear the Americans' confrontational style, relatively new to Israel, will further divide the nation as it struggles to make peace with the Palestine Liberation Orga­nization. 
"These outbursts will ravage the nation's soul," Education Minister Amnon Rubinstein wrote in a commentary pub­lished in the Jerusalem Post. 
In addition, some of the new immigrants are Jewish extrem­ists who advocate violence against Arabs. A New York­born leader of an outlawed ex­tremist group announced when he got ofT the plane Monday in Israel that he would set up a militia to protect Jewish set­tlers. 
A proposal to screen immi­grants to keep out those advo­cating violence drew the wrath of immigration officials, who see the Jewish state as a haven for all Jews. Gad Ben-Ari, the quasi-governmental Jewish Agency's representative to North America, said he wanted the agency to weed out poten­tial extremists following the February 1994 massacre of 29 Palestinians in a Hebron mosque by an American-born settler. 
Jewish Agency head Avraham Burg rejected the idea. "The Jewish Agency does not think about 'selection,"' Burg said, alluding to the term the Nazis used to separate Jews from gentiles. There are about 75,000 Israelis of American ori­gin, one of the largest U.S. expatriate groups. 


Pope travels to South Africa 
By BRIAN MURPHY 
Associated Press 
YAOUNDE, Cameroon 
With celebrations and chal­lenges awaiting, Pope John Paul II arrived in Africa today on a trip that tests the fabric that meshes the Church and the continent's social and political crises. 
The high point of the six-day trip will also be one of the mile­stones of John Paul's 17-year papacy: kissing the ground in South Africa, now free of the scourge of apartheid. 
After a 5 1/2-hour flight, John Paul landed in Cameroon this afternoon and was met by Pres­ident Paul Biya, whose authori­tarian style prompted some criticism of the pope's decision to visit. 
"Since he opted to come, the pope owes Cameroonians the high task of pulling Biya by the e.ar in a severe warning.~' The Herald newspaper said in an editorial today. 
Biya was elected in 1992 bal­loting that was widely con­demned as rigged. He also faces a possible secessionist drive by the English-speaking minority, which accuses the francophone-dominated gov­ernment of discrimination. 
Anglophone groups were hoping to win papal support for their cause during this visit, the pope's second to Cameroon in 10 years. 
Small groups of people wav­

--------------,--~---------------­
page 14 The Observer • NEWS Friday, September 15, 1995 
About 20,000 soldiers are sta~ tioned at Fort SilL 
"I have tried cases in Lawton and from those expe~ riences have formed a high for tile quality of in that ~rea;'' ·Alley 
. 'They have been solid and good people who under­took their juror responsi~ bilities in the spirit of public duty soberly performed." _ McVeigh's lawyer, Stephen 
· Jones, said he was ''deeply •• disturbed" by the judge's decision to remain on the ·case and holdJhe trial in 
Oklahoma. He said he may 
appeal. 

· Nichols' lawyer, Michael bias and Tigar, said he would appeal ofini• Alley's decision to remain on "'"'"'·"" by tl:ie the case and hold the trial in 
. kiiJ.g,!t Oklahoma • ~teJPar!ng· for and a diffi" -_--·~·No forum in Oklahoma ap· 
in the comhig pears to us to guarantee the unJu~un._ and l cannot merely kind of trial that the Constitu­ask another judge to shoulder tion requires and the the burden when the law American people demand," does notrequire that." Tigar said. 
Alle · onceded, however, U.S. Attorney Patrick Ryan th~t tri~Lshould notbe wasout of the office and b~ld ______ ·:Q_~Oklahoma Cit.¥ could not hnmediately coUrthouse. He ruled that for-reached be for comment. mer Gls Timothy McVeigh Alley was not in the court­and Terry Nichols will go on house when the federal build­trial May 17 in Lawton, an ing was bombed, but his Army town near the Texas chambers and courtroom state line. were damaged. 
"The United State court-Attorneys for McVeigh and hous~--tP:·-.oklahoma Cicy_is to{) Nichols had argued that Alley dQSI:)Jo.tll~ })ombing target,~· -was too affected by the bomb­he s~d: · · · · · ing to remain impartial. 
Lawton; be said, "is. close Prosecutors disagreed but enough to be convenient for asked the judge to step aside localwitnesses and for affect-anyway to avoid repeated ed persons _who want to be court battles over the issue. 
\VALL 

ing Vatican flags and pounding on drums and traditional wood­en instruments waited today along the winding roads of the mountainous capital, Yaounde (pronounced Yow-OON-dee). which was cleared of litter, prostitutes and most street ven­dors. 
The pope appealed for "respect and freedom for dif­ferent beliefs and religions" in Cameroon, a crossroads of cul­tures and religions. He also de­nounced the "insecurity and violence" that has claimed many lives, including Mon­signor Yves Plumey in 1991. 
The body of the 79-year-old cleric was found tied to his bed. The murder has not been solved. 
"We cannot forget the grief and the conflicts that afflict many nations ... because hu­man rights and the dignity of everyone is not guaranteed by law," he said. 
Speaking to reporters travel­ing with him, the pope blamed Islamic fundamentalists for much of the inter-faith prob­lems. 
"We are always looking for a dialogue with (Muslims) and to move close to them," the pope said today. "But the fundamen­talists make it very difficult." 
On Friday, the pope plans to present a document addressing the many problems facing Africa and the Church on the continent. 
The message is expected to 
Shuttle retrieves faulty satellite 
By MARCIA DUNN  Even after the satellite was  wafers of film are for another  
Associated Press  given an extra day of free flight,  month or two. If they prove su­ 
ground controllers managed to  perior to semiconductor film  
CAPE CANAVERAL  grow just four pieces of film on  produced in vacuum chambers  
Endeavour's astronauts  the satellite instead of the seven  on Earth, space-created speci­ 
hauled a troublesome satellite  planned.  mens eventually could lead to  
hack aboard the shuttle Thurs­ The $25 million satellite was  faster, more powerful comput­ 
day, ending an unfinished ex­ plagued by overheating, tilting,  ers.  
periment aimed at producing  wobbling, flipping and a unde­ One more major job awaits  
semiconductor film in the pure  pendable radio link.  Endeavour's crew: a spacewalk  
vacuum of space.  Project director Alex Ignatiev  on Saturday. Astronauts James  
The retrieval 250 miles above  said NASA still achieved the  Voss and Michael Gernhardt  
Earth was about the only thing  major objective: to produce  will spend six hours out in the  
that went well during the three  semiconductor film on a free­ open cargo bay, testing tools  
days that the Wake Shield satel­ flying satellite. The film was  and techniques for building an  
lite flew free of Endeavour.  grown on the back of the Wake  international space station.  
To Mission Control's relief,  Shield, in the pure vacuum cre­ Endeavour is due back at  
the Wake Shield was stable as  ated in the satellite's wake.  Kennedy Space Center on  
shuttle commander David  "There were some bumps in  Monday with the Wake Shield  
Walker closed in for the cap­ the road. We overcame most all  and Spartan, a sun-gazing  
ture. The 12-foot steel disk re­ of those bumps," Ignatiev said.  satellite that was released and  
mained fairly steady even after  Physicists won't know how  retrieved with some difficulty  
he fired shuttle thrusters from  good the 3-inch, super-thin  by the crew.  
distances of 290 feet and 200  
feet to see how a free-flying  
object would react to such  
blasts.  
Once the two spacecraft were  
within 35 feet, astronaut James  
Newman, operating the shuttle  
crane from inside Endeavour,  
seized the Wake Shield and  
tucked it into the cargo hold.  
"We're not clapping in the  
room. We're howling," Mission  
Control told the five astronauts,  
who call themselves the Dog  
Crew.  
Wanted:  
Reporters,  
photographers  
and editors.  
Join The  
 
Observer staff.  
 

denounce rights abuses and poverty, but stop short of de­mands by some African clerics for greater merging of Roman Catholic traditions and native beliefs such as ancestor wor­ship and polygamy. Some priests have insisted those changes were necessary to keep the Church relevant for the continent's 90 million Catholics. 
Also, some African priests have openly challenged the Vatican's opposition to con­doms, saying that stance con­tributes to the spread of AIDS. 
Giant crowds are expected to welcome the pope Saturday and attend Mass the following day in a Johannesburg park. He has invited President Nelson Mandela, South Africa's first black leader, to share the altar. 
The pope refused to visit South Africa while it was under white-minority rule, which ended last year. A 1988 storm forced the papal plane to land in South Africa, but John Paul refused to plant the kiss that traditionally marks a first-time visit. John Paul will also visit Kenya before returning to Rome Sept. 20. 
The papal schedule on this trip, his 67th, reflects the less hectic pace adopted by the 75­year-old John Paul since hip­replacement surgery last year. He has just two events sched­uled each day and no side trips to villages or parishes as in past years. 
spectators. It is far enough to provide a trial setting appro­priate for deta<;hed and -dis­
-deliberation." 
Lawton, which is home to theArmy's·· Fort Sill, has a population of ~bout 85,000. 



VIEWPOINT 
Friday, September 15, 1995 page 15 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
John Lucas 

Managing Editor Bwincss Manager 
Elizabeth Regan Joseph Riley 
Nc:wa Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertiaing Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ......................J~n Mackowiak Sparta Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krist~ Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor .................................. Rob Finch Obaerver Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Saint Mary' a Editor .................... Patti Carson Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commc:ntaria, leners and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and w all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• EDITORIAL 
Responsibility in a drinking culture 
A
s preparations for tomorrow's tailgating begin, our readers will notice an interesting dichotomy in the pages of today's Observer. On the one hand, we conclude ''Under the Dome and Under the Influence," a news series that has taken an in­depth look at the use of alcohol in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities. And on the other, today's Accent section examines the booming popularity of local beers and micro­breweries. 
On the surface, running stories on both topics may seem con· tradictory. In reality, these divergent ideas are actually close to representing the environment that exists. Notre Dame is clearly a hard-drinking campus. Every weekend, students flock to any number of dorm get-togethers, off-campus parties and watering holes. For many, these evenings can be a lot of fun, but it is sometimes overlooked that they also end in injuries, sickness, random hook-ups, and other unhealthy activities. 
This same atmosphere also produces student organizations like Flipside, a campus group devoted to sponsoring events without alcohol. It is true that a sizable percentage of students decide not to drink, but they are clearly in the minority. What's worse, their rights are sometimes infringed upon by the drink· ing of friends and roommates. 
• The effects ofdrinking in this kind of environment can not be ignored, whether it be the fun side of tailgating and bar-hop· ping or the potentially harmful effects that an excess of alcohol can cause. 
T
After a week of discussion, our series has included sugges­tions and recommendations by counselors, experts and even University President Edward Malloy. They have called upon, among others, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's student govern~ ·.··•· ments, campus groups, counseling services, and even The Observer to help change the drinking culture of this coillilluni· ty. While each of their suggestions holds a certain amount of · value, the real responsibility for drinking and its consequences lies with each individual. he idea may seem like common sense, but too many times, people have been hurt by drinking recklessly. It has bec:ln. proven by study after study that over-indulgence caJ'l be direct-;, ly linked to alcohol-related crime, physical Ulness. or eveJ'l> addiction. 
So enjoy Saturday's tailgater-there's nothing wrong with going out and having fun with friends and family. But as you do, remember, there's a certain amount of responsibility to be taken with each drink, whether it be for your own actions or your long-term health. 

• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
ReDleDlbering those still 01issing 
T
Dear Editor: his week many people will set aside some time to remember the thousands of American cit­izens who are Missing In Action; our brothers and sisters lost while defending the ideals of this country. 
These commemorations are distinctly American in character. Although there are countless monuments around the world to fallen warriors, I don't know of any country that honors as we do the memory of its MIAs or that so forcefully demands that they be accounted for . 
I
America's remembrance of the MIAs crosses the boundaries that too define our heroes along various social lines. The black and white flag that symbol­izes the MIAs flies across this land from thousands of homes, government buildings, clubs, imd schools. This simple act is a reminder that we cherish human life and sacri· fice; we don't forget our fellow citizens even years after they have been swallowed up in a for· eign land by the horrors of war. t is particularly fitting that the MIAs and the service they performed are honored by the Notre Dame family. Service is, after all, a key principle of the Notre Dame philosophy. There are very few faculty and students who do not perform some sort of service to others. Many will take time after graduation, regardless of their profession, to dedicate some time with organizations such as the Holy Cross Associates. Others will enter into a profession of service either in the Church, military, medicine or other field. 
Over the east door of the Basilica the words, "God, Country, Notre Dame" remind us of those who have served and exhort us to further ser· vice. These reminders are important. We get the impression these days that our society is in disarray and suffers deep divisiveness. Yet recall the pride we felt when the Army, Marines, Navy, and Air Force teamed up at great cost and risk to 
rescue a single pilot from hostile territory in Bosnia. Recall how a group of military men died in the deserts of Iran in an attempt to res­cue civilian hostages of the fanatical regime in Teheran. Recall how just a few short weeks ago, our firemen and other workers toiled in a crumbling building in Oklahoma ~ity for an accounting of every sin· gle person who was lost in the bomb blast there. Few countries would dedicate their resources for such possibilities. Fewer still would carry on a tradition of remem· brance of those who remain missing. Many countries quickly forget their missing citizens. But we Americans, having come here from all the world's nations, do here what we 
T
couldn't do in our native lands. his act is as important as the remembrance itself. In spite of what some might say about problems in our society. our activities this week reveal the glowing ember of the real spirit of community in our souls. It is natural for people to identify themselves according to cultural tradi· tions, but these groupings can breed hatred. However, we are able to shake off these divisive forces when we stop to think about our funda­mental values. 
That is the purpose POW/MIA week really serves. By remembering our missing friends and family members, we take time to strengthen the memory of our precious values. We thank God for the courageous men and women who served us and may still be serving. They sacrificed everything to preserve our special family. When we pause to reflect, we make this land, this com· munity of different peoples, worthy of the sacri· flee. 
THOMAS MOE Professor A~rospacc Studies 

• 000NESBURY fLASHBACKS 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
• QUOTE Of THE DAY 
"He's a wonderful talker, 
who has the art of telling you nothing in a great harangue." 
-Moliere 


----------------------~--------------· -~~~----~--~--~--~--~---------­
VIEWPOINT
page 16 Friday, September 15, 1995 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Off-campus football crucial to ND family, tradition 
l
Dear Editor: am writing in response to an editorial in the paper about how there should be no off-campus teams for footbalL That is absolutely ridiculous. 
The author talked of how those who have moved off-campus should be allowed to play for their old dorms, but there is one fal­lacy that she may not have considered. What if some of who live off-campus do not have dorms that they can call their own. Such is the case with myself along with several other student here at Notre Dame. For you see, we are transfer students who could not get into the dorms because there was no room for us. Why then, should we not be able to participate in Notre Dame activities for something which we have no control over. True, many transfers do get into dorms eventually, but it is usually too late for them to play on that particular dorm's team football. I for one am not going to sit out of activities just because I do not belong to a dorm. Just because I am a transfer am I not still considered part of the Notre Dame family who should be given the right to participate in ND traditions like intramural football ? 
Moreover, the author stated that dorms need the leadership of their seniors. I understand that it is good to have seniors around to help guide and direct, but the juniors in the dorm should have enough experience and ability to lead the freshmen and sopho­mores. Most of them have been around for three years and know what's going on. 
I
Furthermore, the author eluded that most dorm teams do not have a chance against off-campus teams (especially looking back to last year), but that is simply not true. I feel that dorms have a big advantage over off campus, which is simply organization. It is very easy to get the dorm teams organized because everyone is together in one place, which I think is great. I wish it were like that for us. I had to work very hard to get a team together for off campus this year. In fact, we began practices at least a week after everyone else and we just now got all of our equipment. know that there are mixed feelings about this issue among the students and players. However, the one thing that everyone needs to remember is that Notre Dame is built on the tradition of togetherness and competition. All teams are still part of the uni­versity, no matter where they come from, and they are all out to be the best. Off campus people should simply not be excluded from this just because they do not live in a dorm. That would be hypocrisy on the part of the Notre Dame spirit. 
BILL MCCARTY Captain Men's Off-Campus Football 
Coaches response 
Off-campus teams here to stay 
T
Dear Editor: his letter is in response to your publication of Amy Crawford's protest against RecSports for allowing an Off-Campus Women football team. 
Congratulations, PW. You have officially won the title, "Off-campus women haters." You have tried so intently, for several weeks, to prevent an Off-campus team from forming that you all deserve hearty pats on the back. . . and a swift kick in the hind end. 
We'd like to say right now that we agree with you that RecSports should allow off-campus women to play for their old dorms. if they so decide. However, this does not mean that an off­campus team should not be allowed to be formed, and anyone who thinks so has some growing up to do. It's not our rule, so don't whine at us. 
W
The concept of Interhall Football was meant to be an opportunity for all students to competitive­ly play a sport of their choice if they are unable to compete on a varsity level. This opportunity extends to all students. Off-campus students are just as much a part of the Notre Dame "family" you claim they are destroying as you are. Just because someone decides to live in an apart­ment, condominium, or house does not cut them out of this University. We fmd that your Rector's comment "Off-Campus students shouldn't have the privileges as on-campus students" is both degrading and shallow. e are disturbed that this woman is sup­posed to be an instructional and social leader for the students of your dorm and makes comments like that. In essence, since this is your view, you are including all the seniors from your own dorm who have decided to move off-campus -each of whom you claim are needed for "their undying spirit and invaluable experience." 
You claim we have an All-Star team because we are made of mostly seniors. Experience does 
Middle ground possible for alcohol consumption 
l
Dear Editor: am writing in response to Cristiane Likely's column of Sept. 6, "Drinking: Is alcohol consumption an ND problem?" My initial reaction is that Ms. Likely must be a very unhappy per­son at Notre Dame, at least with respect to her relationship with a good portion of her senior class. 
To choose not to drink is one thing. Certainly it is a deci­sion your body will appreciate. However, to overtly condemn those who "become a slave to the brown beer bottle" is es­sentially telling most of her senior class that they are a bunch of screw-ups. 
One only has to be at Senior Bar the first Monday of the school year to see the droves of students who, heaven forbid, drink. However, bars like the Alumni/Senior Club don't exist so that students can have a place to "saturate their bodies" with alcohol so that they put themselves in jeopardy of even "killing somebody or themselves." 
Drinking establishments are social places, and one certainly does not have to drink themselves into the oblivion like Ms. likely's drunk characters. 
In fact, this University assumes we can drink responsibly. Ms. Likely, however, seems caught in a false dilemma -either we are like her who claims, "I have never had any alcohol, and I consider myself blessed," or we are like the drunk people permeating her article "reeking of vodka," wracked with cirrhosis, possibly wielding a dangerous weapon, and then waking up "in a pool of voniit." Obviously a middle ground is possible. 
H
Why drink at all? It is awkward for me to defend a beverage with warning labels, and I must admit I arrived at ND an alcohol vir­gin with a bad attitude about those who indulged. Three years later, my attitudes have evolved a great deal. Like Ms. Likely, I too am acutely aware of alco­hol's dangers. Alcoholism runs in my own family, and I have seen its devastating effects on many others. owever, Ms. Likely perhaps takes a naive approach by 
implying that one like herself who has never tasted alco­
hol is "blessed" (as if God is doing her a special favor) and 
one who may have a drinking problem (I am leaving out the 
middle ground here) is someone who suffers from "lack of 
self-control" or is "somebody stupid." 
The dominant belief in the field of alcohol treatment is that 
alcoholism is a diseas~. but Ms. Likely herself says she doesn't "care what anybody says." Again, leaving out the middle ground, those that do abuse alcohol here should not be called stupid. Their problem is not just a weak will. 
Alcoholism is much more serious than that, and it needs to be treated like an illness, not a depravity of the soul. Instead of kicking someone while they are down in their pile of vomit, why not be a bit more compassionate and try to actually care about the person as someone more that the evil-one-who-loves-to-get-loaded-and-puke? A moratorium on alcohol probably will not help. We are adults now and the fact is that some adults drink, and most do so socially and responsibly. Although it is true that Notre Dame may "graduate alcoholics," I believe most collegiate episodes of drunk­enness are mere expressions of freedom of friendship and generaljoie de vivre. . 
I
We all realize that in a few months, these carefree days of school will end and we will have to face being adults in the real world. t is simply not acceptable to run drunk through the fountains in New York and Chicago and show up hungover at Arthur Anderson the next day. Furthermore, col­lege is a time when a lot of people learn how to drink. This involves occasionally going overboard, getting sick, and some­times doing stupid things. 
Although one could argue that we would be better off not going through this rite of passage at all, I, for one, feel that we are not only safer, but more socially equipped in the real world if we have a clear under­standing of how alcohol works. For non­drinkers, this means relating with those who do, and understanding that ordering a beer is not subconscious expression of deep insecurities or lack of self-control. 
In fact, if Ms. ~ikely could cross that bridge over the flaming river of alcohol, maybe she would meet some very smart, very mature, successful. and alto­gether likable people on the other side. 
I would like to have Ms. Likely at a cocktail party someday -she would fill the whole room with her disapproval but not before she searched Nancy Reagan's purse for a hidden flask of rum. 
RENEE FLICKINGER Cavanaugh Hall Senior 

not defme quality. We can be beaten as easily as any dorm can be. Don't let our "three years of experience" intimidate you. Lyons, Pangborn and Walsh are all exceptional teams this year, but you are not concerned about their abilities. Perhaps you should be. 
O
The fact that your "loyal" seniors attempted to start a second Off-Campus team shows us that they are as stubborn as you are. There is an Off­Campus men's football team. but there have never been any complaints about that. Why? Perhaps you girls are taking this game more per­sonally than it needs to be. ff-Campus students are a crucial and integral part of the Notre Dame family. Without Off­Campus housing, Notre Dame would have eight more dorms where the new Business ·Building, South Dining Hall, and the Rockne Memorial cur­rently stand. You would be forever stuck in a world of dorm parties on weekends, which I'm certain would make this a more social campus. You would cry about parietals until the Alumni hit you over the head with Du Lac in an effort to quiet the nagging. 
So please, Ms. Crawford and the rest of you non-believers, Off-Campus football is here to stay and its residents thank you for your concern. By the way, your "loyal" seniors are welcome on our team anytime. And please don't compare us to Florida State -no one on our team has ever spent time in jail. 
We wish every team the best of luck this sea­son. 
JOSHUA QUINN PETER COLEMAN BILL MCKIERNAN GARRET CARLSON RICK MUNZINGER Off-Campus Coaches. 


''IThY drink at all? 
YY It is awkward for me to defend a bev­erage with warning labels, and I must admit I arrived at ND an alcohol virgin with a bad attitude about those who indulged. Three years later, my 
attitudes have evolved a great deal. Like Ms. Likely, I too am acutely aware of alcohol's dan­gers. Alcoholism runs in my own family, and I have seen its devastat­ing effects on many others.' 
r------------------------------------~-------------·------~-----------------------------------------------. 
Friday, September 15, 1995 page 17 
VIEWPOINT 
• CAPITOL COMMENTS 
Ego, diaries hurt Packwaod 
J
ay Leno recently joked about coincidences he What galls me is that Packwood used the same observed between Abraham Lincoln and Senator excuses many fallen members of Congress use. First, Bob Packwood (H-Ore.) by saying, "Lincoln wrote a attack the committee. Then blame substance abuse. speech containing the words 'Four score and seven Packwood did just that the day he announced his resig­years ago' and Bob Packwood wrote in his diary 'I first nation. He made the rounds of morning talk shows, scored seven years ago."' Leno was referring to denouncing the ethics panel for failing to hold open Packwood's sexual history, which Packwood himself hearings where he could confront the women who described in his diaries. Those escapades, along with accused him of sexual misconduct. But Packwood also Senator's altering of evidence prompted the Senate acknowledged that "in many cases I had been drink­Ethics Committee to unanimously recommend ing, I don't remember," he said on NBC's "Today" Packwood's expulsion from the Senate. show. "In most cases, I don't actually remember the 
·Allegations of sexual impropri­person." eties hounded Packwood for 
"These were not merely stolen almost three years. While he kisses, as Sen. Packwood vehemently denied serious wrong­has claimed," Ethics Committee doing, the evidence clearly proved Chairman Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) otherwise. Finally, Packwood countered. Since Packwood was
Gary
announced his resignation in a accused of sexual misconduct by 
short, emotional speech from the 19 women, McConnell said, "There 
Senate floor by saying, "I am was a habitual pattern of aggres­
Caruso 
aware of the dishonor that has sive, blatantly sexual advances, 
befallen me in the last three mostly directed at members of his 
years," Packwood said in the own staff or others whose liveli­
speech. I le said he did not want to hoods were connected in some 
drag the Senate, as an institution, through a debate way to his power and authority as a Senator." 
that could lead to his expulsion. Evidence released by the Senate Ethics Committee's 
P
Bob Packwood, like so many entrenched Members of investigation of Bob Packwood paints a stark and lurid Congress, come from the old school where they think picture of the Senator's sexual exploits, including his they are above the law. I personally have seen it dur­own vivid descriptions of sexual encounters with ing my eighteen years on Capitol Hill, including, unfor­staffers. The documents included transcripts of the tunately, from a Notre Dame graduate who has since Oregon Republican's private diaries. In one excerpt retired completely from politics on his own accord. from Nov. 21, 1989, Packwood detailed a sexual Packwood, like former President Richard Nixon, had Once these new Representatives arrived at the Capitol encounter with an aide in his Senate office. a perverse sense of history by keeping such damaging in the "good ole days gone by," they were treated like While other aides milled about in an outer office, accounts. His ego ruled his common sense. He was royalty -waited on hand and foot by staff, wined and Packwood wrote that he had sexual intercourse with caught in part because society in general and women dined by lobbyists, permitted to stretch the Jaw by fel­the woman, after which the couple rested for more in particular will no longer tolerate such conduct from low Representatives who chaired committees that had than an hour in the nude on the Senator's office rug. public officials. However, for every caught Packwood in oversight of Congressional operations. They become "She is a sexy thing," Packwood wrote. "Bright eyes public office or in a corporate suite, several go unde­part on an ...Old Boys Club" that many have criticized. and hair and that ability to shift her hips. [The aide] tected and unpunished. It is incumbent upon women ackwood is a moral slug. He was one of the "Old and I made love. And she has the most stunning figure and their male coworkers who witness such actions to Boys" who got caught by changing societal stan­-big breasts..." He quoted the woman as telling him, stand up and correct such situations. Unfortunately, it dards that would not tolerate such behavior. Everyone "You have no idea the hold you have over people." takes greater courage on their part to fight than it took who worked for him knew he was a slug. Eventually, He described having sex six or seven times with Packwood to resign to save his beloved Senate from the committee investigating him knew it too. The com­another woman on his staff, adding, "I was feeling further embarrassment. mittee found that Packwood endeavored to obstruct sorry for you thinking I was doing my Christian duty to and impede their investigation by altering his diaries. make Jove to you ..." They found· that he engaged in a pattern of abuse of The documents also shed light on allegations that Gary Caruso, ND '73, worked at the U.S. House of position of power and authority by committing at least Packwood altered his diaries. A March 27, 1993, Representatives for eighteen years and is now a publi­18 incidents of sexual misconduct and that he abused excerpt detailed a breakfast meeting. "The Oregon cist with the International Union of Electronics his position of power and authority by soliciting jobs homebuilders all said they were mad," wrote Workers (JUE) in Washington, D. C. His column for his ex-wife from people with an interest in legisla­Packwood. "...1 said the homebuilders could make it up appears every other Friday and his Internet address is tion that Packwood could influence . with me with a contribution of $10,000 for my legal hottline@aol.com. 
• LOCAL COLOR 
Southern lifestyle: Changes not always for the better 
I
paid a visit to my hometown of When I was growing up we ate (plain) nineteen sixties. Until then, the only that have taken over the strip-mailed Florence, Alabama this summer. One grits hot on the side, the way we eat rice restaurants in town was Sammy's roadsides, there's still room for the morning we drove over to visit the Space or noodles today. They were always Shanty, and Dale's Steak House down by occasional barbecue joint. Center in Huntsville, and as we sat eat­best left over: pack them into a loaf pan the river. Our Florence favorite is Singleton's, ing lunch in a Chili's Restaurant which and refrigerate over night. In the morn­!remember my parents taking us to owned by full-time deputy police chief \\!US next door to a TGI Fridays which ing, unmold and slice, then fry in bacon Sammy's on one occasion. My brother and part-time restaurateur Hick was across the street from McDonald's fat. was six or seven at the time and a Singleton. Barbecue down South means and Taco Bell. I found myself wonder­This got me thinking about the other devoted fan of Popeye the Sailor Man. pork (chopped meat packed in contain­ing if there's anything Southern about foods of my childhood, some remem­He studied his menu carefully (I'm not ers) or chicken (roasted over a slow fire the South anymore. bered with nostalgia and some not. I re­sure he could read yet) and when the until the meat is falling ofT the bone). 
Then a difference presented itself: member my grandmother Mary making waitress asked for his order, he said Pork is served with "red sauce", a thin when I ordered iced tea, the waitress me lunch of stewed pork livers and firmly, "Roast duck." Memory is unclear sauce with flecks of red pepper floating asked if I wanted sweet tea or unsweet­cornbread. after this point. I remember my parents in it, not quite as hot as tabasco. ened tea. Iced tea has been the summer I must have been the only kid in the ordering him a hamburger, but Mom Chicken is served with "white sauce", drink of choice 
world who actually thinks they sliced up some chicken and also thin, which may have an acquain­down South since liked liver, particu­told him it was duck. tance with mayonnaise. A touch of long before the larly deep-fried About the time we left Florence and horseradish is also detectable. Both invention of H.C. chicken livers. This moved to Ohio, a few fast-food places come with coleslaw (finely chopped cab­Cola and Dr. changed when I got began creeping in. McDonald's was the bage with a peppery vinegar sauce) or
Carol 

Pepper. married and my first (drive in only, burger fries and beans. If you want bread, they throw in 
Those of us who husband said, dis­drink for under a dollar), then Kentucky a package of hamburger buns. like our tea sug­Bradley dainfully, "My fami­Fried Chicken. My cousin Cindy, an Air Force nurse ared know that ly does not eat We knew things had changed when we who now lives in the big city of San sugar doesn't dis-waste-filtering went back for a visit one Thanksgiving Antonio, took a friend to Singleton's for solve in cold tea. organs of animals." and the great aunts had gotten Kentucky barbecue not long ago. and they almost So where tea's pop-So much for pate. Fried Chicken for dinner, after a major panicked when they saw this guy with a ular, they sweeten it when it's brewed, Fried fish was another staple. We all disagreement over the issue of regular gun come in and walk behind the while the water's still hot. lfked to fish, and my father (I see this versus extra-crispy. counter to the cash register. 
I noticed other differences when I as pretty sneaky, in retrospect) awarded The next night, we went over to have It wasn't until he turned around and went to the grocery store with my moth­my brother and me the coveted job of dinner with my grandmother and Aunt they saw the badge that they realized it er. The display at the end of the snack cleaning the perch and bluegill and Louise. They were leaving to go out of was just Rick, coming ofT duty and going aisle featured not potato chips but pork occasional catfish. town the next day and were pretty busy, to work. rinds. llot sauce and pickle selections Someone asked me the other day how so they'd gotten Kentucky Fried Chicken During our visit in July, my brother were many and various (picalilli, chow fishermen kill fish to eat, club them over rather than cooking ... and I took my Great-Aunt Catherine out chow). Vidalia onion relish was there, the head or what? Sharp knife at the My father commented later (in the to lunch at Red Lobster. Our waiter and it's not considered a specialty item. gills, I told her, cleanly slice the head presence of my late, temperamental came up and delivered ice water and "Greens" still means turnip, not arugula ofT, gut, and scale. She was grossed out, Great-Aunt Edna) that he supposed we'd menus. "Hi, my name is Bob, and ah'll and romaine. but then she'd probably be afraid to put be safe for Thanksgiving as long as be ya'll's server today," he said. Some 
here was an entire rack in the cereal a worm on a hook, too. nobody had invented Kentucky Fried things change (and not always for the T aisle devoted to grits. Instant, quick Other traditions: green beans cooked Turkey. She was highly indignant and better), but others stay the same. and regular. Country bacon, redeye with bacon fat until they were limp and said, scathingly, "I think people should Writer and photographer Carol C. gravy and country ham, cheddar cheese swimming in grease. Home fries. I eat what they're given!" Bradley teaches magazine writing at or butter flavor, take your pick. Packets don't think I ever had a french fry until But fortunately for tradition, amongst Saint Mary's and can be reached via e­or five pound bags. the first McDonald's was built in the the homogeneous national chains mail at carol. c. bradley. l@nd. edu. 

page 18 
• ACCENT ASKS 
What Is YOUr favorite beer? 


"Rolling Rock, because of the enigmatic '33' ." 
Molly Russel, Sophomore, Lewis 

"Killian's Red, because of the tradition." 
Nate Houston, Freshman, Morrissey 


"Oide English, it goes down so smooth." 
Alisa Bobay Junior, Walsh 

"O'Douls. I don't drink alcohol:' 
Malcolm Johnson Sophomore, Saint Ed's 


"Amstel Light, it tastes good." 
Theresa Kelly Sophomore, Howard 

"Natural Light, because of its economic value." 
Carver Anderson Sl?phomore, Fischer 


"Coors Light, less glug." Brian Ulmer Sophomore, Fischer 
--~ ~-~-----­
The Observer• WEEKEND Friday, September 15, 1995 

The ObseiVer/Katie Kroener 

The Mishawaka Brewing Company 
...an inside look 

By KRISTA NANNERY have on tap. Accent Editor At the bar or as carry-out, The Four Horsemen Irish Ale (5.7% alcohol content) blows the com-
T
he "Beer Renaissance" is not about making petition away. It's already won two major beer Budweiser taste-a-likes. In recent years, industry awards. In 1994, it won the silver medal attention has returned to the time-honored at the Great American Beer Festival in Denver, tradition of crafting flavorful, quality brews Colorado-the Oscars of the beer world. The which are quickly stealing the hearts and taste Four Horsemen, an Extra Special Bitter brew, buds of American living rooms all also ran away with a silver at the around the country. -··~·World Beer Championships in The Mishawaka Brewing Co. Chicago. has created their own living One of the Brewery's more room right here in South , unusual beers is the Bend. It's a living room ~ Raspberry Wheat Beer. they've designed to facil-~ Schmidt says of this itate socializing. And if favorite, "There's a little their guests choose to bit of an image problem have a beer or two with the Raspberry. It's while they're relaxing, not macho at the bar." well, that's not too But he still fmds a lot of bad either. closet raspberry 
Tom Schmidt, who will get partner in the arty pig" and Brewing Co., sees a it at home in the wide range of peo-omfort of their own ple walk through living room. his doors every day. The next Great Naturally, the American Beer Brewery offers a wide Festival is coming up range of beers to meet in early October and, 
the varying likes and dis-although the Brewing Co. likes of its customers. has yet to win a gold, this 
For the Budweiser people of this world, the might just be their chance. Whatever the out­Brewery offers Coveleski Stadium's tap of choice, come, the "Beer Renaissance" will continue to Silver Hawks Pilsner. Schmidt says of this old convert many a Budweiser drinker as well as stand-by, "It's not a shock the first time." At change the face of living rooms across the coun­4.8% alcohol content, it's the lightest beer they try. 

f 
' 
---------------------~ 
Friday, September 15, 1995 The Observer•WEEKEND page 19 
("''}/,,.-\ !"(............. /'·.._ .· ..-=-··..:.

The Art of Making Beer 


B
By JOEY CRAWFORD lieved the Mesopotamians and the The clarity of most modern beers Assistant Accent Editor Egyptians were the first to make is a result of the filtration process. barley more suitable for brewing Filters usecellulose and diatoma­through a process in which the bar­ceous earth. Diatomaceous earth is eer. For some it is a fer­ley grains are germinated, The composed of microscopic fossils mP-nted beverage directly process develops the enzymes that that act as tiny razor blades, and from the heavens. For others, transform the starch into fer­can be quite lethal if ingested or beer represents the primordial po­mentable sugars. This process is inhaled Most of the beer produced tion of evil. concocted by the devil called malting. It is actually a in the United States is called lager. himself. Everyone remembers the lengthy process, but, oh, does ,it Lager is a pale, medium-hop fla­first time they had a beer. It is the make the beer taste great. Prior vored beer that is stored for several next twenty beers that become dif­to learning how to malt barley from months at temperatures just above ficult to recall. The first sip, the the Romans, the Greeks brewed freezing in order to mellow. bitterness, the cool fermented bev­beer from unmalted grains. The erage rushing down the throat-it Teutonic and Celtic tribes, made is a sensation like no other, but mead, a refreshing beverage ' There is a certain nevertheless it is an acquired taste. brewed from wheat and honey. It is amount of cama­Beer is as American as apple pie. similar to beer but certainly has 
raderie developed as a
We celebrate with it at parties. We more punch. drown our sorrows with it. We group of people who bare­drink it at sporting events. The word "beer" stems from 
ly know each other sit 
Sometimes we even drink it for no the Celtic word "boer." The apparent reason at all. Celts applied the word to the around, sing songs like 
There is a certain amount of malt brew produced in the monas­"American Pie," and gulpcamaraderie developed as a group teries of Northern Gaul. of people who barely know each Researchers believe that hops was down icy cold ones.' other sit around, sing songs like first introduced into the brewing "American Pie," and gulp down icy process by Gaulish monks who used Few dark beers are produced in cold ones. A person becomes part it as a preservative. Hops also has the United States. Dark beers owe of a club: the drinking club. Some an aromatic effect on beer. their dark color to the roasting of may argue that this scenario is Brewing beer is a long and ardu­the malt. Dark beers tend to be wrong, but drinking brings people ous task that requires a great deal heavier and richer in taste than of all nationalities and of all classes of patience. During the lengthy lager. Stout is a very dark beer. It is together. brewing process, a person has brewed with a combination of 
From Bud Bowl to the beautiful more than enough time to focus on roasted and regular malt and has a Swedish ski team to ridiculous how good the beer will taste after strong hop taste. Another dark frogs croaking the name of their waiting for what seems to be an beer, porter, is a sweet alternative favorite alcoholic beverage, beer eternity. Yeast is the key ingredient to the stout, bitter dark beers. It ­has become an integral part of the in the brewing process. Yeast caus­was originally brewed as a mixture advertisement world. It would not es the fermentation of malted bar­of ale and beer. Malt liquor , which be the same watching the Super ley (usually). Hops and water are has a mildly fruity taste, is a beer Bowl or the World Series if one did added to the solution. made from a high percentage of not see beer ads. Magazines and There are four major steps in the fermentable sugars that are largely newspapers are also infested with ancient process of brewing beer. derived from malt. these ads. There are even flying The first step is called mashing. Many other foreign countries pro­beer advertisements called blimps. Mashing is the process of combin­duce their own type of brewed bev­This has become part of our cul­ing the malt, water, and crushed erages. Japan brewed steamed rice ture. grains at high temperatures. These into a beverage known as Sake. 
There are a vast variety of beers. high temperatures encourage the Russian beer is called Kvass. It is Domestic beers. Imported beers. complete conversion of the grain brewed from barley-rye malts and Dark beers. Light beers. Thick starch into sugars. Boiling the solu­fruits. Many tropical countries use beers. Ice beers. Even fruit-flavored tion and adding hops is the second interesting things like coconut or beers. There is a type of beer to step of the brewing process. palm trees to produce their fer­suit even the most finicky taste Fermentation is the third step. mented beverage. buds. Have you ever wondered as Alcohol and carbon dioxide gas are There may very well be a drink­you were sipping on a sudsy bever­the by-products of the addition of ing problem in our country. age, "Where does this heavenly fer­yeast on sugar to the concentration. Perhaps we have grown blind to it mented beverage come from?" Aging is probably the most difficult because we have become so accus­. The hj~tory of beer is long and step to handle mentally. The beer is tomed to seeing it. Beer is, perhaps, colorful. The earliest records of this there, but it should not be con­sadly enough, part of the American "wine of the grain" have been sumed. It requires a great deal of way of life. So if you are an over found on Mesopotamian tablets self-control. The aging process may twenty-one type person, go out and (7000 BC). The tablets contained last from 2 to 24 weeks. It is an have a beer. If two to twenty-four recipes for making the fermented essential part of the brewing weeks seems too long to wait for an beverage. Researchers are unsure, process, though. Proteins either icy cold beer, go to the nearest dis­though, as to when the process of settle out or enzymatic actio.n helps tributor and buy your favorite beer beer brewing actually was invent­dissolve them. The carbonation that and just be merry. ed. They are not certain as to occurs during fermentation is now whether our prehistoric ancestors drawn ofT and forced back into the invented bread or beer first. It is brew during bottling. 
-
-




page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 15, 1995 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

NOTICES 
51221 Oakhill Ct. Knollwood Park need 3 GA's 4 Vand. call x2855 Needed: I need to 2 TX GA's11! Graduating senior seeks female Villa. $159,900 Open Sunday 2·4. Two G.A.'s for the Texas Call Christy at X2950. roommate for spring semester. Enjoy life and entertain friends in ALUM NEEDS TEXAS GAs. CALL game. Call 4-3056. Ask for Dan. 
Call Pam at 634·1363. this elegant mediterranean villa. (313)420-1208 OR (212)250!6513 Need 1 USC Ticket Student or Newly remodeled Bed and There are seven more for sale in (DAY ONLY). Need 2 Texas GAs GA. Call Anne x4896. .Breakfast located in Middlebury, 30 this area. Shappee Realty, Marzena and 1 Texas Stud miles from campus. 5 rooms with Walicka (219) 271-1474. 24 HR NEED TX STU-TIX FOR ND ~all Chad X3384 CA family needs 3 BC GAs. private baths, space available for PT/FT-International 235-3018. GRAD!! HE'S RICH NOWI Please! football game wknds. 1-800-418-multi-million $ company looking for JANINE ·1549 $Need 2 Tex GA's$ Call Clara x4826 9487 sports minded, self-motivated, atti· !!!ALPINE CAR CD PLAYER!!! 272-9105 
tude-driven individuals to help $250 CALL BRENT 273·6183 I need 2 Vandy GA's! 1@#$%1@#$%!@#$%1@#$%!@# QUALITY CHILD expand Northern Indiana territory. Call Martha @ X4092 Need Texas & BC Tickets· GA or I NEED 2-4 OH STATE GA'S CARE/PRESCHOOLING--Loving Flex hrs., excellent pay, training TOM PETTY TICKETS Student • Willing to buy or trade CALL JAY COLLECT@ mom With certificate in early child­provided. For interview call 277-DEERE CREEK SEPT. 19 HELP ME!!! Call Matt 273-9650 (614) 766-2012 hood education and four years of 5289 CALL 232-0058 I need 2 Texas GA's AFTER7PM preschool teaching experience has. 273-6162 WANTED-tickets for U CS,TEXAS 1@#$%!@#$%1@#$%1@#$%@# openings for children 18 months WANTED: An Asst. Cook, Servers, or NAVY. Please call271-0989, and older. Farmington Square Dishwashers, and a Cleaning per­TICKETS PAIR OF MARRIED STUD also have answering machine. WILL TRADE 4 BOSTON COL­home. 271-8437. son. Call the North Village Landing TIX BOOKLETS 4 sale LEGE GA'S FOR 4 USC GA'S OR 
for your interview. 272-8180. PLEASE, call 273.0824 SAVE ME! MY HTH WILL KILL WILL TRADE 2 BOSTON COL· If you are goin~:~ to see : I NEED TWO STUDENT ME. Need 1 GA or Student ticket LEGE GA'S FOR 2 USC GA'S. THE MAIDS @ SMC this Earn $2500 & Free Spring Break TICKETs FOR THE TEXAS GAME. Need BC or USC GAs -Call Jess for Texas. Call Vince 634·1664 CALL TODD AT 4·1787. Thur/FrVSat-Piease bring your Trips! Sell 8 Trips & Go Free! Best CALL DAVID@ 272-7327 @ X2785 own cushion to Dalloway's Trips & Prices! Bahamas, Cancun, Need 2 Texas GA's. NEED VANDERBILT GA'S FOR 
Jamaica, Florida! Spring Break A DEVOTED IRISH FAN NEEDS NO ALUM NEEDS 214 OSU TIX Call Alison X2511 FRIENDS FROM HOME. CALL ACCOMMODATION Travell1-800-678-6386 GA'S TO ANY/ALL GA'S PREF. CALL MIKE 212-574-JOE AT 4-1846. Englishwoman offers quiet accomo­HOME/AWAY GAMES. 1071 MUST SELL AS OF 9/13 dation near campus for NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­219-232-0061,24 HAS. Two student tix booklets NEED: 1 OR MORE STD TIX ND/SMC visitors. Call219-631-Seasonal & full-time employment Need BC & USC GA's & Stud Call271-1541, leave message ANY GAME ESP. TEXAS 6072 day, 219-273-1751 evening. available at National Parks, Forests Meg or Sue @ 4544 CALLX3232 
& Wildlife Preserves. Benefits + TICKET-MART, INC. NEED 1-4 GA'S FOR OH STATE. Bed & bfst. lovely room with bonuses! Call: 1·206-545-4804 ext. WANTED Need Vandy Texas WA Stud & CALL BILL@ 219-294-3250. ALUM WILL PAY $100 A TICKET private bath for two people (219-N55841 GA'S FOR ANY/ALL GA's FOR USC TEXAS OHIO STATE 272-5989) Parents or friends of HOME/AWAY ND GAMES. Katie or Christy @ 4514 VANDY STUD TIX 4 SALE WASH ga's PERSONAL USE UNO & St Mary's Lead Guitarist Looking for Band BUY*SELL*TRADE 273-5295 ONLY 2773097 
Call Flynn x-1 007 (219) 232-0058 • 24 HAS. TEXAS BOY DESPERATELY ND @ WASHINGTON -2 Dbl Rms SEEKING TEXAS TICKETS. ND Student needs 4 Texas tickets NEED 2 NAVY GA'S. CALL TOM Ramada Seattlej•Oct 6-7. Brunch for Business oriented men and women. I NEED TIXS TO ALL HOME PLEASE CALL MIGUEL AT X3336. for family of huge Irish fans driving AT X1899. 4 at Dukes on take & boat cruise Gain marketing ex-GAMES.272·6306 12 hrs to see the game!! to/from game. No game tkts. $600. perience and earn $'s at the Will trade 1 stud Vandy & Tex for Please call KERRY @ 634-2925 NEED 4 TEX GA BIG $Chrisx4010 Mike (206)575-0711. same time. Fit your schedule This is a cute and desperate mes­2 Navy GAs Ben x3305 
part time. call Ron 272-7147 sage about how I need Texas GA's. TEXAS*TEXAS•TEXAS WANTED: 2-3 Texas GAs; will * * SPRING BREAK * * Please call Erika@ 272-7327 NEED: I need 4 TEXAS TIX trade BC GAs for them. (414)282­MAZATLAN, MEXICO Local church looking for a pianist 1 GA for Texas and Student or GA 0286 Brian Best Prices. Best Parties. Organize for choir practice on Wed. evenings NEED TEXAS GA'S. 1 GA forBC. Call 4x3371 and leave message & earn free Spring Break Trip 7-8. CALL ALISON 1·800-431-0010, call Christine @ 273-2580 I NEED TICKETS!! If you are not and/or cash. Call Ron at 800-288-Call272-8141 -Westminister EXT. 8796. FOR SALE ••••••••• using your tix for the Texas game 0328 Presbyterian Church. Need 4 USC GAs & 2 BC GAs. SENIOR stud Vand. tic. 289-9420 (Sep.23), please CALL RICK COL­
Desperately need USC tickets! !I Please call Cheryl x4883 LECT at (21 0)805-8355, after 7 pm 
ILOST & FOUND I ___
_Pa_id_pos_itio_n. 
I 
3 GA's or 2 GA's and 1 Student TRADE!! IIIII! CST. Please call Chris at 288-7843. I have tickets for every home game. (2) VANDY GA'S I need 2 TEXAS GA's. If you want FOR AAA LOST! Losu· · FOR RENT Need 2 Texas GAs. to trade call277-3609. (2) NAVY GA'S I really need 2 GA tickets for the Have you seen my car keys. They Desperate and Wealthy! CALL JEREMY @ 4-3666 Navy Game for my Grandparents are GM keys on a unique keychain 2 BDRM HOME FOR RENT NEAR Call1·800·223·2440 Ext.4370 HELP!!! NEED TWO GA'S FOR coming here. If you can help please that is a laminated cardboard CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES $$$$$$ ANY HOME FOOTBALL GAME std tix book call me at 4-1959 teardrop advertising INCREDIBLE 272-6306 CALL BILL AT x3559 4sale 
-UNIVERSE. --------need vanderbilt tickets 259·7762 2 married & 1 single stud booklets Have no idea where I lost them, but HOMES FOR RENT NEAR ND GA's or married student tix Need Texas GA and Stud. Tix 4 sale. call219-631-6103 if you find them call Mike at 631-232·2595 call Dan @ 273-4780 Eric 233-4435 Need 1 Vandy GA. call Lee @ 4541. Thanks. x1563 ND GRAD NEEDS TIXI 
3 BDRM house, 5 min drive to Need G.A. Tix to NO-Texas. Call 2 married std tik book 4 sale 271· LETTERMAN NEEDS Found: gold tie holder outside ND campus. $150/rm/mon. plus Joe at 287-4561 before 10 p.m. 0783 Please sell me 2 Texas stud. or GA. 4USC ANO 6 TEXAS T~XI------< DeBartolo comp. lab doors. Call utility costs. Call 272· 7376 tickets. Call Jenny X3512. WILL PAY$$$$$! Harriet at 596-0622 to identify and NEED NO-TEXAS GA Need 2 GA's for BC. Call Eileen 4-CALL MIKE X1824 claim,or lv msg at WSND (631-2 BDRMS, USE OF ALL UTILI­OR STUDENT TIX. 2964 NEED TWO TEXAS GA'S REAL 7342) TIES, KITCHEN, W/0, CALL DAVE 609-779-3876. BAD. LET DAD SEE NO GAME Need 2 good tix for any of the dates 
$250/MO. QUIET N/HOOD. NEAR I NEED USC and OSU GAs! I FOR FIRST TIME. CALL DAN AT 1 0/21' 1 0/28, 11/4. LOST CAMPUS. PAUL 232-2794. NO DAD NEEDS TEXAS, USC & HAVE stud tix for Vandy, BC to 4-3056 (515)486-2517 35mm Pentax Camera PURDUE GA'S. trade and/or $$1 Amy x4836 in a Brown & Black Case HOME CLOSE TO ND GOOD 219-422·6088. I NEED VANDY GA'S! 'Wanted two to four home game Call4x3371 AREA 2773097 Needed one Vandy ticket ADAM X4335 PLEASE Ill tickets. Call or write. $$ 1REWARDI $$ I NEED TEXAS AND USC GA'SI Call Greg at 3889 314-731·7604 
LUXURY LAKE HOUSE AVAIL· PLEASE CALL SUlY AT X3729. Need 2 Vandy Ga's Gary Goehl Lost a Gold Chain Bracelet of great ABLE FOR HOME GAME WEEK­TRADE! Call271-9670 PO Box 4152 sentimental value ... Piease, if found, ENDS. SLEEPS 10. JACUZZI TUB, Need any home GA's 2 VANDY and 4 NAVY GAs Hazelwood MO 63042 call MARl at X2969!1 :( Thanks. STEAM ROOM, FULLY FUR· call Steve @ x11 03 WILL TRADE FOR Need 2 BC GA's!!! X4027 
NISHED. $1,500.00 PER WEEK· ANY TEXAS TIX. I need 2 GAs for Texas Found-END. 30 MIN. FROM CAMPUS. NEED GA TICKETS FOR TEXAS· KEVIN x3254 I NEED TXS GA'S MEGAN X3890 Please call Kathleen @4843 Set of Keys by Admin. Building. 219-295-6261 DAYS. 616-476-ND GAME. WILL PAY TOP DOL· Running Shoe Key Chain. 2459 EVENINGS. ASK FOR LES. LAR. (610)995-9671 Need B.C. tickets $$$ I NEED GA'S MEGAN X3890 Need NAVY student or GA for little Chris x1899 Kevin x 1233 sister. Call Carol @ 4·3826 
FOR SALE TICKETS!!!! BC BC BC BC BC BC BC BC BC 
FOR SALE

Found: Lady's watch in laundry @ G.A. S ALL GAMES I need BC GAs... call x3975 Rich Alumni needs GA's to all home Sf. Michael's: Call Sfan @ 631-••••••• 272-72331111111111 ATTENTION!!! NEED 4 VANDY BC BC BC BC BC BC BC BC BC games. Call Tom at (312)280­81 05 to identify. 1985 Honda Hatchback GA'S FOR FAMILYII BIG$$$$ 2591, Bill at (312)327-5329, or 
$1000/Best offer 708-957·1546 CAN Y'ALL HELP OUT? •••cALL ANNA @273-0962*** GA FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE Greg at (708)253-7997 (Chicago) Ask for Pete. New Tires NEED TEX TIX-GA OR STDNT CALL 2719464 OR 2887162
WANTED 

& Brakes. TOP DOLLAR PAID PAIR OF MARRIED STD TIX 
CALL KELLI X4044 Need 2 tickets to Vanderbilt game. Need 2 B.C. GA's BOOKLET 4 SALE. CALL271-1715 Sales Help Needed -Long Distance Call Cristina at 2475.• call Greg:273·8629 AFTER 7PM. Service needs Reps to sell to stu­2 ROOMS AT ST. MARYS INN dents and their families. Can be SEPT. 15 & 16 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Need 2 tickets for NO vs. Texas. TEXAS*•TEXAS•*TEXAS done part time from room or apart­RACHEL 303-796-8280 Former ND student needs SIX Call Ken, collect at (405)677-8253 I HAVE GA TICKETS FOR TEXAS, Need Texas Tix-Student or ment. Potential for immediate com· Texas GAs. Name your price. VANDY AND NAVY.... IF YOU GA. Call Jeremy at x4075 mi~sions, management bonuses MAC Performa 550-4 Months Old Call Ryan at (608) 849-7702 NO Alum has 2 BC GA's to TRADE HAVE TICKETS FOR USC AND and long term residual income. We $1000Ca11Gail @1287 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ for USC GA's. Call Brian (717)566· WANT TO MAKE A TRADE..... Need GA's to any game offer tremendous value to the cus­5856. Leave message. Call Tom at: 4-3893 Call Katie X1093 tomer and training and support for RUST LOVESEAT, CHAIR & BC TICKETS NEEDED. PLEASE our Reps. Call Mike at 616·521· OTIOMAN. $200 TAKES ALL. CALL KATIE @ 219-271-9856. Need 4 USC GA's Katie X4088 3620. 291-5160. THANKYOUI HEY MARRIED STD TIX BKLTS 4 Sale 
I NEED 4 TEXAS TIX (any) I Need Vandy and Texas tickets BO 273-2331 
RIT TICKET TO L.A. USC TICKETS NEEDED, STU­AND 1 BC.HELP WITH ANYTHING call 239-7959 ask for Mike CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING • OCT14·22 DENT OR GA. CALL KATIE AT IN ANYWAY CALL COAT 1676 STUDENT DESPARATELY Earn up to $2,000+/month on $260 o.b.ol 219-271-9856. THANK YOU! *I WILL DO ANYTHING* I NEED BC GA'S & STUD TIX! NEEDS 1 GA OR STUDENT TICK­Cruise Ships or Land-Tour compa­Jamie x2498 CALL JOHN @ 234·5771 ET FOR TEXAS. PLEASE HELP nies. World travel. Seasonal & full· WILL BUY TEXAS TICKETS 817· NEED 8 NAVY GA'S $$$USC stud ME! CALL TIM 634-1799 time employment available. No Mac LC & Printer StyleWriter 738-5109 tic to sell X2620 experience necessary. For more 4 MB, 40 MB HD, 11.5 in Color NEED TEXAS GAs· WILL PAY$$ FOR SALE: information call 1·206-634-0468 monitor, Excel , Word , DESPERATELY SEEKING 3 GA or please call Charlie x2243 5 MARA STUD TIX FOR VAND. ext. C55841 ClarisWorks, Hypercard. Asking $ student tickets for TEXAS! Call Need 2 Student Tix and 2 GA's for GREG 2718154 
1000 or B/0 (232-5236) Sarah 273-6875 Texas. Call Dominic @ 273-8709 WiUing to trade two Navy G.A.s for WANTED!! if you can help me out. Texas tickets. FOR SALE : 4 BKs Stud Tix Authentic N.D. Stadium seat MACINTOSH COMPUTER for sale. Need 3 GA's for Vandy and 4 for Call Jane @287-7729 (8-12pm) offered by Athletic Dept. Complete system including printer UT-call Jeff X1828 Tom or leave msg and make offer 
-
I PESPERAT~LY nee<) to buy one only $499. Call1-800-289-5685. NEED TXS STD TIX • RON X0648 634-1157 -but they're SOLD OUT! NEED STUDENT TIXI11 Need Stud. Tax Tic. PLEASE HELP ME! $$$11 Packard Bell 486SXCPU VANDY, OSU, and NAVY need Texas GA's. John 1-7204; DESPERATELY NEED B.C. stu­Call Christian 
Call: Chris Carroll (Class Of '91) 4 megabytes-color monitor­233-2289 233-3412 dent and GA tickets!! Call Beth at x3542 M·F 8-5cst Wordperfect 6.0-CD ROM­273-8334. (708)325·8700 Soundcard-color printer-1 yr. old I I I HELP I ! I HELP II I for sale: 2 student ticket books WANTED· TEXAS GA'S OR Thanks. $1700 256-6982 (before 4:00) make offer on message. 271-7270 NEED 2 USC GA'S AND 4 TEXAS STUD'S WILL PAY BIG$$$ 
-
I NEED 4 T E X A S GA's ! I GA'S: CALL KEVIN 234-3468 815·282·9503 Part-time nanny needed. $7/hr. 11110 SPEED BIKE FOR SALEIII x1755 PLEASE CALL x1755 Need USC GA'S 2:30-6:30 any aft. Must drive. Call GREAT CONDITION AND ONLY 1 USC stud. needed $1 need 2 Texas Ga's for my Dad$ 
257-1411 evens. $40; CALL BRENT 273-6183 I I I HELP I I ! HELP I II Matt 288-3823 $ Call Kate at 2900 
see CLASS I page 21 


--~--~ 

Friday, September 15, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 

Class 
continued from page 20 
Student tlx for sale I all games 268·6418 
4 SALE: 2 Vandy tlx & 1 stud bklt x4-3144 
FOR SALE: MARRIED STD TIX BOOK­LETS 273-3166 
DON'T MESS WITH TEXAS 
SELL MEYOUR 
TEXASGA'S 
FOR LARGE SUMS 
OFCASH $$ 
Alex@ 4·3504 

NEED TWO BC TICKETSIII My dad would love your tickets and you'd love his money. call Kevin ·11n 
TICKETS, MOTHERI I NEED TICKETSIIIIIII Texas GA'slll Call bob NOWIII x4040 
NEED TICKETS 4 TEXAS G.A.'S Call Sean x2153 
Need 3 TEXAS GA's and/or STUD TXTS. Call Tom 4·3637 Ill 
4 sale student booklet, call256 9708 
I'll trade you my Vanderbilt GAs for your USC lixl 264·36451 
Help -senior needs 2 Navy GA's for grand· parents I Call Heather X4412 
WILL TRADE 2 GA BC FOR 2 SC GA/STDNT TX. ALSO NEED 1 OR 2 STDNT TEX TX. DON (714) 990-0890. 
WILL TRADE 4 NAVY GA'S FOR 4BC GA'S CALL GOODY X4334 
FOR SALE: 1 TEXAS GA. CALL 
(317) 685·1803 AND LEAVE OFFER AND PHONE#. 
Need: 4 Vandy GA'sll Please call Rachel 
c 634-1675 
PERSONAL 
7: PM onday Sept. 1 8 De 
Darwinism on Trial 
You be the Judge!
Also Jurisprudence and Evolution at noon in the Law School Court Rm. 
JAZZERCISE ITS A FUN WAY TO GET FIT & STAY THAT WAY. 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. CALL 2n-0111 FOR MORE INFO. 
Saint Mary's Faculty, students and others interested In supporting gays and lesbians should attend a meeting Tuesday Sept. 22 @ 12:15 p.m. in 306 Haggar. 
Hey, you I I know you're Interested In Notre Dame Student Players. Our first meeting of the year Is coming up soon. Mark your cal­endars: 
(9/18/95, 6 p.m., Notre Dame Room, Lafortune). All are welcome. Keep the faith and love alive. Be a part of the action. I'll see you there. 
HEY KATHRYNIIII Good luck tonight­Break a legii@#$$%A'&' Luv your fav roomies-Lisa, Jen & Megster 
S tudboy Dave In search of Extra spicy lover,call me x4010 for Xlacy 
Bookstore Basketball 
X X V 
Don't forget to pick up applications in Student Activities (3rd floor, Lafortune) if you want to be a Commissioner for the 25th Anniversary Bookstore Basketball tourna­ment. Bigger, Better, Televised?? 
Help plan the world's largest outdoor 5­on-5 hoop tournament. 
FEMALES-

Date too DRUNK to go on?? Get a replacement date X3691 REFERENCES-Johanna, Ali & Sabina X4813 
Be A Starl The Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination needs men and women to act and be a part of our campus-wide educa­tion on sexual assault. Training is Sunday Sept. 17 and Oct. 1 from 12-Spm. Call Cella at 4·1332 for more information. 
Sheila, Sarah, Sarma and Jill: 
You're the Greatestl You're a Winnerl You're Swelll 
Starkid 

000 THE COPY SHOP 000 Lafortune Student Center 
We're open for your conveniencelll Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight Fri.: 7:30am· 7:00pm Sat.: Noon -6:00pm Sun.: Noon · Midnight 
To our 'bouncy girl' Have a very happy birthday .. All the best from your fellow labrats 
Luuuuukkkkkkeeeee, I ammmm youurrrrr fatherrrrrrrrr... 
WHY ARE YOU SO DUMB? I? 
Don't forget to wish Margie McCormack a Happy 21stl 
Happy birthday Margie Wargiel· Love Leezer, Bridgey and Farter. 
Tommy boy is weak. He can't walk across campus b/c it is too far. This Is why he is so weak. That Is all. 
Interested in getting a great set of ABS?? Sign up now atRecsports: Sundays 440pm-510pm Rockne 301 
-Advanced Abs­1/2 hour of intense ab work for $121111 
Do you play Magic (M:tg) I'm trying to com­pile a list for playing, trading, and tournaments. If interested, contact Nick at 234·0783 or E-mail me at Nicholas.Kanaras.1@ nd.edu 
BEWARE $'1DKY is 211?@ Just don't get buck okayll Love, Schmall 
Cheers to the 1 B Pumpkin Shuckers! From Room 145 
Headquarters? What is it? 
Kiddo, 
Nothing like another late night here. Say hey to the nuns for me and ask for prayers for my last 1.5 
-An lllinios Farmer 
So tell me what I see when I look in your eyes .... Is that you baby? or just a brilliant disguise? 
It's a big building where the generals meet, but that's not important right now 
Thanks Joey. Where would I be without you? 
hi mom. hi dad. hi cory. Happy birthday dadII 
• AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Raiders set to challenge Chiefs and Coach Shell 
~y PQ\)'GTUCKER Associated Ptil$s 
KANSAS CITY. Mo. 

Schottenheimer's voice echoed across the practice field. 
"Remember, men, this is Raiders ~eek," he yelled, as if there c.qul!,J be a player, coach or fo!Jgyv¢r of the Kansas City ChiefsLwho didn't already know. 
Fans know. Raider-hater par­ties have been a Kansas City tradition since the late '60s. 
Players know. 
"The whole attitude of the ballclub changes when we play these guys," said defensive end Nell S:tnlth. "The tempo of practic:~e picks up." 
"It's something special. It's not just media hype," said tackle Joe Phillips. "You can sense it with coaches and play­ers. Then you get out into the community, and you realize what a huge game this is for the whole city. 
"And the crowd for these games l~ incredible. It's like sticking y~ur head inside a jetenginet•· · 
This year, more than ever. coaches know. 
"I'm not going to lie. There are some special feelings," said defensive coordinator Gunther Cunningham. 
Cunningham spent the previ­
ous four seasolli! as a Raiders 
assist · ..~ which pales in 
n to the 27 years of 

Shell gave to the SU· ver and Black. A former 
R!i-iders Pro Bowl tackle who 
was fired last year as the 
team's head coach, Shell found 
work in charge of Schotten­
heimer's offensive line. 
How psyched is he for his f'll'st battle against the organi­zation that for so many years were such a significant part of his life? 
Nobody outside Shell's inner circle knows. He declined all interview requests tllis week. 
"If we get too emotional about things, it will tear your guts out,'' Cunningham said. "What we've got to do is pre· pare the team and do our job 
NORTH VILLAGE A.LANDING 
FRIDAY EVENING 
4:30 pm-8:00 pm 
THE GRAND BUFFET 
•Over 20 Entrees 

•Hot 
Vegetables 


•New 
Polish Items Added 


•Array of mouthwateringdesserts 
SUNDAY MORNING 
I 0:00 am -2:00 pm 
PRIME RIB BRUNCH 
•Prime 
Rib 

•Peel-n-Eat 
Shrimp 

•All 
breakfast items 


•
Array of mouthwatering desserts 


just like we would any other week." · 
Even without all the added drama and spice, this would be a meaningful game. The old ri· vals are both 2·0 and the winN ner gets the early lead in the AFCWest. 
The Raiders, back in Oakland after 13 years in Los Angeles, have allowed only 15 points while beating San Diego and Washington, and quarterback Jeff Hostetler was this week's AFC Offensive Player of the Week. 
The Chiefs, who've beaten the Raiders in nine of their last 10 regular-season meetings, trounced Seattle in their open· er and rallied for two fourth· quarter touchdowns last week to beat the New York Giants in overtime. Chiefs quarterback Steve Bono was named the AFC's top offensive player two weeks ago. 
Yet, if both teams were win­less on the final week of a throwaway season, the matchup still would drip with emotion. 
"We can sit here and say, 'Oh, this game doesn't mean much. It's just another game,' " said Marcus Allen, who spent 11 years as a star running back for the Silver and Black and owns a host of team records. "But any time you leave a team, the human side comes out in you and you want to prove a point." 
Allen signed a freewagent contract with Kansas City in 1993 after falling deep into Raiders owner AI Davis' dog~ house. While revitalizing hls remarkable career in Kansas City, he followed the party line about the Raiders being no dif­ferent from any other oppo­nent. 
"I used to say that, yeah. I thought it wasn't a good idea to articulate how I felt," he said with a grin. 
Yet, in a playoff-clinching 19­9 victory over the Raiders last December, Allen rushed for 132 yards, his biggest game since 1987. 
"I approach every game with great enthusiasm," he said. "But for obvious reasons, this means a little more." 

_,. 
~. 
-

Located at the North Village Mall 52565 U.S. 31/33 North : South Bend. IN 46637 (219) 272-8180 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------__. 
r 
' 
' 
' 
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 15, 1995 
I "t.
' •NFL
' 
' ~ Bears, Bucs to fight for first in Central 
I I 
By FRED GOODALL 

I 
Associated Press

I 
TAMPA, Fla. 

' 
The rallying cry in the NFC 

' 
Central once again might be

' 
I 
~ "Get me to .500 and a shot at the playoffs." .The seas(}n is. barely under­I way and the Central already is 
I on pace for another year where break-even records keep the Chicago Bears and Tampa Bay Buccaneers in contention. Not to mention the Lions, Packers and Vikings in the league's most-balanced division. Four teams are tied for first at 1-1, including the Bears and Bucs, who broke training camp with expectations of distancing themselves from mediocrity. Their head-to-head meeting on Sunday could be a starting point for the winner. "As early as it is, you can't make light of what these games mean and what they're going to mean in December," said Chicago coach Dave Wannstedt. "This is an important game win-loss-wise, but also division­wise." ·The Bears· were one of" three NFC Central teams that made the playoffs with 9-7 records in 1994. Defending division cham­pion Minnesota advanced with 
a 10-6 mark. 

From top to bottom, the divi­sion traditionally is one of the tightest in the NFL. A .500 record keeps you in the title race and finishing above that almost always means a playoff berth. 
Since 1981, only two NFC Central teams with winning records -Green Bay in 1989 (10-6) and 1992 (9-7)-have failed to earn a postseason spot. One of the surest routes to the playoffs is to win within the division. 
"This division clumps up and you need to have those division wins,so that when it comes down to some sort of tiebreaker at the end of the year, you've won those games," said Tampa Bay quarterback Trent Dilfer. "I don't want to say this is a must-win situation ... but this is definitely a big one." 
Sunday begins a stretch in which the Bucs play five of six games at home, with the only interruption an Oct. 1 road date fore going 4-1 down the stretch. A solid preseason and a season­opening split of road games against Philadelphia and Cleveland have fans excited about the team again. 
The capacity crowd expected Sunday, designated as Lee Roy Selmon Day in honor of the Bucs' Hall of Farner, is the first September sellout in 74,000­seat Tampa Stadium in 13 years. 
It also gives the franchise, which had a full house for the last game of 1994, back-to-hack sellouts for the first time since 1982. 
For a change, coach Sam Wyche may not need a fiery motivational speech to inspire his players. 
"Actually, we're going after this year with just a little bit more of a business-like ap­proach. In the past, we haven't had as good a football team, so we had to come up with an an­gle every week, a reason to get into a state of mind that we can play over our heads," Wyche said. 

"The Chicago Bears are a good team. I'm not saying we're going to dominate anyone. I just believe we're playing with more guns than we ever played against them before." 
Wannstedt doesn't anticipate any problems getting the Bears ready, either. Especially after Chicago's 27-24 loss to division rival Green Bay last Monday night. 
The Bears rallied from a 21-0 deficit and had a chance to win before several breakdowns, including Erik Kramer's fumble on Chicago's last possession. 
"It was inspiring the way our players responded and came back. I think we grew up a lot and came together as a team. I like where we are," Wannstedt said. 
"This may sound crazy, but I know we're a better team today than what we were at any point last year. Now, what happens every Sunday ... and how it's going to end up at the end of the year with wins and losses, I don't know. But I know we're a better football team." 
Differ was sacked seven times in Tampa Bay's 22-6 loss to Cleveland and showed his ap­preciation for the offensive line in an unusual way. He treated nine linemen to dinner at a steak house owned by Miami Dolphins coach Don Shula. 
One of the practice squad players, Joel Crisman, finished a 48-ounce porterhouse and four other linemen all con­sumed four-pound lobsters dur­ing the outing, which Dilfer actually planned before the Browns game. 
The quarterback's attitude, however, reflects how well things are going for the Bucs. The confidence level is such that players can even make light of themselves after a loss. 
"If you read (the invitation)," Dilfer said, "I told them, 'I need to butter you guys up.' " 

against expansion Carolina. A r------------------------------------------, 
strong start will go a long way toward helping the team end a streak of 12 consecutive sea­sons with double-digit losses. 
The Bucs lost seven of their first nine games last year be-

Celebrity Fest '95 
WHAT A WEEKEND! 

Join famous sports celebrities for an exciting evening of fun, entertainment and a fantastic "Tailgate" Dinner on the eve of the ND(fexas_game, Friday, Septem9~J.2;2~4:??-dl}~,gJ:m~.. at the historic LaSalle Hotel building;'downtown Soutn~B~nd. Registration of $25 per person, $45 for couples ($1 0 forklds 
under t~),l~9~d.~, · ' .wail Hall of F~roe 
!h-off coupons. Shu. {fromlhe ND Pep 
Rally and~ ~h ~bar.wUl b~fa,y~la,ble. ' ·~ 
,,,, ,. ' . ' '>:x ~­
or write to HMS, 23 7 
register. For $5 more, enter 

Notre Dame(fexas football game (raffle 

1 9 9 5 
All proceeds benefit HOME MANAGEMENT SERVICES, a nonprofit org. dedicated to building healthy families for a stronger community. 

MANAGEMfNT CONSUlTING, YOU CAN KffP IT THAT WAY. 
Our goal is not just to impress you, but to give you the chance to impress us. When it comes to offering peerless integrated services, Ernst & Young Management 
Consulting is simply known as the world's leading firm of it's kind. To you, this means seeing us on campus on the following dates: Calender of Events for University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College 
Wednesday 9/20 Notre Dame Engineering Career Fair 11:00am-4:00pm Faculty Reception 4:30pm-6:30pm, Notre Dame Rm of Morris Inn Thursday 9/28 Presentation 6:00·8:00pm, Notre Dame Rm of Morris Inn Friday 10/6 Notre Dame Business Career Fair 10:00am-4:00pm Meet Ernst & Young at Parisi's Restaurant 5:30-7:30pm Tuesday 10/24 Campus Interviews -Notre Dame 
Wednesday 10/25 Campus Interviews -St. Mary's 
To us, being the best means looking for the graduates ready for no limits: graduates who also want to be part of a company driven to add value to people and companies. See Ernst & Young on campus or contact Ivy Posada at 312-879-4452 for more information. Internet: IVY.Posada@EY.com . We've both got a lot to live up to. 
An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
EllERNST& YOUNG LLP 
Friday, September 15, 1995 The Observer· SPORTS page 23 
• AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Rangers still in playoff hunt 
Associated Press 
Bobby Witt pitched seven-hit ball and struck out 12 over eight-plus innings as the Texas Hangers improved their wild­card position with a 6-1 deci­sion Thursday night over the Toronto Blue Jays. 
The Hangers moved within one game of the AL wild-card leaders, the New York Yankees and Seattle Mariners, with their fifth straight victory. The Blue Jays lost their sixth straight. 
Witt (3-2), who struck out 12 in July as a member of the Florida Marlins, set a Rangers season-high with his strikeout total. Witt, who didn't walk a bJttter, ten after giving up the Blue Jays' seventh hit starting the ninth. Dennis Cook finished up. 
Juan Guzman (3-13) gave up three runs on 12 hits over eight innings as he suffered his eighth straight loss. Guzman, who struck out three and walked one, has not won in his last nine starts, dating back to July 14, when he beat the Mariners in Seattle, 5-1. 
The Hangers scored three times in the second to take a 3­0 lead. Mickey Tettleton led off with a double and Ivan Ro­driguez followed with a single, advancing Tettleton to third. 
Husty Green then hit an RBI double and Mike Pagliarulo hit a sacrifice fly before another run scored on an error. 
In the fifth, the Blue Jays scon~d on Sandy Martinez' RBI double. 
Rodriguez added a two-run double and Tim Crabtree an RBI single in the eighth, his fourth hit of the game, to make it 6-1. 
Royals 5, Athletics 4 
In the middle of the AL wild­card race, the Kansas City Roy­als are creating new ways to win and their manager is in­venting new words to describe the task ahead. 
"It was huge for us today and tomorrow is going to be more hugher. That's the way it is as you go down to the wire," man­ager Bob Boone said after Michael Tucker's two-run dou­ble in the ninth gave the Royals a 5-4 win Thursday over the Oakland Athletics. 
Tucker, who earlier had an RBI single and went 3-for-4, hit his lead-changing double off Athletics closer Dennis Eckers­ley. 
"I couldn't make a pitch and my timing was way off. That confused me. It was embar­rassing for me," said Eckersley, who has seven blown saves in 35 chances this year. "I was like a fish out of water." 
Eckersley (4-5) walked pinch­hitter David Howard and Keith Lockhart to begin the ninth. It was the first time Eckersley walked consecutive batters this season. 
Both runners advanced on Greg Gagne's long fly to center 
Flowers, Roses,
FLOWERS 

Balloons, Birthday
DELIVERED 

Cakes, Fruit Baskets,
rSl7 DAYSrSl 

Plush Animals and Gifts 

C/ocktower Square 
ALL MAJOR CREDIT Phone Answered 
51400 US 31 North 
24 Hours a Day

South Bend CARDS ACCEPTED 
277-1291 or 1-800·328·0206 
and scored on Tucker's shot over right fielder Jose Herrera. 
"I walked the first guy, and I don't normally do that. Then I walk the second guy, and I never do that," Eckersley said. "I can't remember when the last time was I walked two in a row." 
Jim Converse (1-3) got four outs for the Royals. Jeff Mont­gomery pitched the ninth for his 29th save. 
Tucker, who began the day in a 1-for-13 slump, was just hop­ing at first that his shot off Eck­ersley would be deep enough to drive in the tying run. 
"I was thinking sacrifice fly and then the ball just kept on carrying and I started thinking double," he said. 
Mark McGwire set an Oakland record with his 269th career home run, passing Reggie Jackson. 
McGwire's 31st homer of the season, a two-run shot that went 415 feet to left-center, tied the game at 3 in the sixth. With two outs and runners on first and second in the seventh, a run scored when Jason Gi­ambi's grounder went through Gagne's legs at shortstop. 
McGwire, who also hit a two­run homer Wednesday against the Royals, had been tied with Jackson for the Oakland record. The A's franchise mark is held by Jimmie Foxx, who hit 302 homers for the Philadelphia Athletics. 
Danny Tartabull singled home the Athletics' first run in the first. 
Gagne had a run-scoring groundout and Tucker followed with an RBI single in the sec­ond, and Lockhart added a sac­rilice fly in the fourth. 
Royals starter Mark Gubicza, who leads the majors with 30 starts this season, gave up four runs and 10 hits in 6 2-3 in­nings. Athletics starter Steve Ontiveros allowed three runs and five hits in seven innings. 
Student Government Presents ... 

• AMERICAN lEAGUE 
Quarterback decision still not made for Colts 
By BUCKY GLEASON &soc,iarcd Pre!$ 
ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. 

Indianapolis Colts don't know whether to start Captain Come· back or the $6 million man at quarterback when they play the Buffalo Bills on Sunday. 
Jim Harbaugh has led two comebacks and thrown three touchdown passes with no in­terceptions coming off the bench. ~raig Erickson has thrown one touchdown and three interceptions while strug-· glin:g to learn the Colts' system. · ·It all adds up to one big headache for Buffalo. 
''It's a little tough preparing for two quarterbacks not know· ing which one is going to play," Bills defensive coordinator Wade Phillips said. "A lot of teams have the same system and the· same kind of quarter­backs. But Harbaugh is a lot different from Erickson be­cause of his scrambling." 
Harbaugh relieved Erickson last week In Indianapolis' 21­point rally that ended with a 27·24 overtime victory over the New York Jets. He also led a comeback in a loss to Cincinnati the week before and completed 76 percent of his passes in two wins over Buffalo last year. · 
If that wasn't enough to fuel a quarterback quarrel, Erickson has been ineffective since signing a three-year con­tract worth $6 million. His six turnovers have led to 26 points in the tlrst two games. Erickson and Harbaugh have split prac­tice time this week. 
"It really is a tough deci­sion," Colts coach Ted Marchibroda said. "One is because of the fact (Harbaugh) has done such a good job off the bench. My decision is whether we are a better foot· ball team when he comes in off the bench or when we start him." 
The Bills (1-1) will be just as worried about Marshall Faulk, who leads the Colts (1-1) in rushing and receiving through two games. Faulk, who led the team in both categories en route to the Pro Bowl last sea­son, has become the premier running back in the AFC East. 
Indianapolis' offense has av­eraged 375 yards ln the flrst two games, but many expected the Colts to beat their flrst two opponents handily. Instead, Er· ickson couldn't get the offense moving and the Colts had prob­lems on defense against weak· er teams. 
The Colts lost wide receiver Flipper Anderson, who sus·· tained a season-ending knee injury last week. 
Still, they have improved steadily over the last three sea­sons under Marchibroda and 
last year finished 8·8, one game ahead of the Bills. Indi­anapolis has won three of the last five games against Buffalo. 
"We haven't played well against Indianapolis the last several years," Bills coach Marv Levy said. "I made that point strongly with our team. Maybe five, six years ago they were a weak team, but they've moved to the point where they are good team." 
At least the Colts know what offense they'll run. The Bills aren't so certain about their at­tack, which turned from shod­dy to nearly unstoppable after switching to the no-huddle last week. 
Jim Kelly made it clear he wanted the Bills to run the faster-paced offense with three wide receivers rather than the hall-control style with two run­ning backs and two receivers that Levy has pushed since last year. · 
"We have to give them more to look at, don't just go two· hack, just don't go three re­ceivers," Kelly said. 
... 

Join your student government at the Aeldhouse Mall before the Pep Rally , Friday, Sept. 15, to get psyched for a victory over Vanderbilt! 
HOTDOGS & HAMBURGERS FRESH OFF THE GRILL. ONLY $.50 EACH FOR STUDENTS! 
4:00 to 6:30 PM OUTSIDE LAFORTUNE. 

• 
LIVE MUSICAL ENTERTAINMENT! *Emily Lord 
* Elsie's Promise 
-

* Reverend Funk 


--~-­
page 24 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 15, 1995 
•NFL 

Dolphins' Green to line up against former team 
By STEVEN WINE Associated Press 

MIAMI 
With the Pittsburg~Steelers in town, Miami Dolphins tight end Eric Green has a long list of things to do: 
1. 
Throw some blocks. 

2. 
Catch some passes. 


3. 
Throw a pool party -for the 


Steelers. "Those guys will probably come over and relax and get in the pool," Green said. "It's cool, because we're still friends." 
Friends but foes. Green left Pittsburgh in March to sign a six-year, $12 million contract with the Dolphins, which will put him squarely in the spotlight when the teams meet Monday night. Both are 2-0 and trying to build momentum for a Super Bowl bid. 
''I'm taking it as just another game on the schedule," Green said. "I don't think I have anything to prove. I think I proved myself over a period of time, being established as probably the best tight end in the league. The Dolphins thought enough to make me the highest­paid tight end in the league." 
Thus far, the Dolphins consider the 28-year-old Green a wise investment. His blocking has improved their long­dormant running game, and as a receiv­er he ranks close to his talented prede­cessor, Keith Jackson. 
"He has been doing everything we hoped," coach Don Shula said. "He's a physical presence up front -an excel­lent blocker and a good receiver." 
It's no coincidence the Dolphins are on a pace to top 2,000 yards rushing for the first time since 1983. The Steelers, meanwhile, have slipped to eighth in the NFL in rushing, behind even Miami. 
Last year, with Green, Pittsburgh led the league. "His ability to block was a big part of our success," coach Bill Cowher said. 


Friday, September 15, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 25 
• AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Yankees pull even in wild-card chase 
Associated Press ing six straight outings without for a 2-0 first-inning lead. outs in the ninth. He struck out The Brewers, still hoping for a victory. He won for only the Ruben Sierra doubled and nine and walked two. a wild-card spot in the AL play­
Pettitte won his fourth straight start as the New York Yankees moved into a first­place tie in the AL wild-card race by beating the Baltimore Orioles 5-4 Thursday night. 
Bernie Williams homered for the Yankees, whose eighth win in 10 games put them even with idle Seattle in the chase for a ptayoiT spot. 
Pettitte (10-8) allowed four runs and seven hits in 8 1-3 innings. The rookie left-hander came out after Rafael Palmeiro's two-run homer, and John Wetteland finished for his 25th save. 
Pettitte is 4-0 with a 2.38 ERA in his last four starts after go-third time in 10 road decisions. 
The Yankees broke out of a 2­all tie with two runs in the fourth inning against rookie Rick Krivda. Jim Leyritz was hit by a pitch, Don Mattingly sin­gled and Russ Davis doubled in a run before Pat Kelly hit a run­scoring grounder. 
Pinch-hitter Wade Boggs sin­gled in a run oiT Terry Clark in the ninth to make it 5-2. Palmeiro hit his 35th homer in the bottom half. 
Krivda (2-5) gave up four earned runs and eight hits in 8 1-3 innings, his longest outing in the majors. He has lost his last three starts. 
Cal Ripken walked and Bobby Bonilla hit his seventh homer 
Birthday·......
...rl 
LizardI 

Keep Your 
Shirt Onl 

Love, Flat 8 and Shiela and Mary Beth 
Newly remodeled 
• 
New Carpets 

• 
New Tile Floors 


scored on a sacrifice fly by Mattingly to get the Yankees within a run in the second. 
Williams led off the third by lining an 0-1 pitch into the left­field seats, his 17th homer of the season but only the second in 24 games. 
Indians 5, Red Sox 3 
Orel Hershiser won for the seventh time in eight decisions and Manny Ramirez reached 100 RBis as the Cleveland Indi­ans beat the struggling Boston Red Sox 5-3 Thursday night. 
The Indians, who rested sev­eral regulars, won for the 18th time in 22 games and recorded 90 victories in a season for the first time since they won 93 in 1955. They can become just the ninth team to play . 700 ball for a season by winning 11 of their remaining 15 games. 
Boston, which began the night with a magic number of six for clinching the AL East over New York, lost for the sixth time in seven games. The Red Sox are 1-7 at Jacobs Field since the park opened last year. 
Hershiser (14-6) continued a strong second half that has seen him go 9-2 in 12 starts since the All-Star break. He held the Red Sox to one run and three hits until Mike Greenwell hit a two-run homer with two 
Jose Mesa relieved after Greenwell's homer and closed for his 43rd save, tying the team record set by Doug Jones in 1990. 
Ramirez drove in two runs, joining Albert Belle as the sec­ond Cleveland player with more than 100 RBis this year. Rookie Herbert Perry had two doubles for the Indians. 
Vaughn Eshelman (5-3) gave up four runs and six hits in five­plus innings. 
Perry doubled home a run and scored on Ramirez's single in the first inning. Sandy Alo­mar hit an RBI single in the fifth, and Ramirez drove in a run with a forceout in the sixth. Omar Vizquel hit an RBI double off Jeff Sup pan in the seventh. 
The Red Sox got a run in the fourth when Hershiser hit John Valentin, who stole second, went to third on a fly ball and scored on Jose Canseco's sin­gle. Canseco extended his hit­ting streak to 16 games. 
Brewers 6, Tigers 3 

Rookie knuckleballer Steve Sparks struck out a season-high 10 and John Jaha. and Fernando Vina homered as the Milwaukee Brewers defeated Detroit 6-3 Thursday night for their first win in six games at Tiger Stadium this season. 
offs, have won just three of their last 16 games. 
Chris Gomez homered for the Tigers, who had their victory string snapped at five. 
Sparks (8-9) allowed five hits and four walks in 7 1-3 innings and got all three outs in the third, fourth and sixth innings on strikeouts. His previous strikeout was six on July 2 against the New York Yankees. 
Mike Fetters pitched the ninth for his 22nd save. 
Jaha triggered a three-run fourth inning with a two-out homer, his 18th, off Sean Bergman (7-9). Mike Matheny had a two-run single following walks to Matt Mieske and David Hulse. 
Mark Loretta reached on a throwing error by shortstop Gomez in the Brewers' sixth and scored when Vina hit his third homer, off Mike Christo­pher. 
Jeff Cirillo's RBI single scored Matheny in the eighth. 
Cecil Fielder, who singled, scored on an RBI single by Phil Nevin in the Detroit second. Gomez hit his 11th homer in the third and reliever Ron Rightnower walked Nevin with the bases loaded in the eighth. 
Bergman, the first of five De­troit pitchers, gave up three runs on five hits over his 4 1-3 innings. 

Advantages We Offer 
• Four and Five Bedroom Townhomes 
• Complete Repainting of • Washer and Dryer in Every Every Unit Apartment 
And Much More! • Dishwasher 
• 
Central Air Conditioning 

• 
ADT Security Systems • 24-Hour Maintenance 



Now leasing '96-'97 School Year 
• 
_,. 
• 
Friday, September 15, 1995

page 26 The Observer • SPORTS 
• NATIONAL LEAGUE 

Reds closer to clinching Central crown 
Associated Press 
The last eight innings were no problem. It was the first one that had David Wells muttering to himself. 
"I _said, 'Here we go again,"' said Wells, who gave up a first­pitch triple and a run-scoring double, but then shut out San Diego the rest of the way as the Cincinnati Reds beat the Padres 8-1 Thursday. 
"My last couple of games had been really terrible. My me­chanics were all screwed up," Wells said. "I came out of the first inning a little bit frus­trated." 
After throwing two consecu­tive complete games in August, Wells (5-3) had lasted only four innings in each of his next two starts. 
"I decided I couldn't let that happen again," Wells said. "I had to bear down." 
He did, and pitching coach Don Gullett pointed out a minor adjustment that the two had seen on film. So from there, Wells allosed only two weak singles and a walk in throwing his third complete game since being acquired by the Reds on July 31. He struck out five. 
"After the first inning, every­
thing was working," Wells said. 
"I felt as strong in the eighth 
inning as I did early." 
Eddie Taubensee drove in 
two runs with his eighth homer, 
Thomas Howard tripled in two 
and Jeff Branson homered, his 
12th, as the Reds reduced their 
number for clinching the NL 
Central to five. 
They could clinch this week­
end against the Atlanta Braves, 
who locked up the NL East on 
Wednesday. 
"It makes for a fun week­
end," Reds second baseman 
Bret Boone said. 
The one-game series with the 
Padres was the result of the 

strike reconfigured 1995 sched­ule. The Reds' win left San Diego 6-3 against Cincinnati, the only team besides the Colorado Rockies with a win­ning record against the Reds. 
"There's no reason for that that I can explain," San Diego manager Bruce Bochy said. "It's just that until today we've had good pitching and played well against the Reds." 
Bochy said Wells was impres­sive in his first start against the Padres. He probably didn't know what the game meant to Wells. 
"I'm from San Diego, and I've watched the Padres my whole life," Wells said. "You don't know what a feeling it is to pitch against your hometown team, and beat them. I wish this game had been in San Diego." 
Steve Finley hit Wells' first pitch to the right-field corner, and Jody Reed followed with a double to the corner in left. But Wells retired the next three batters and allowed only two singles and a walk in the final eight innings. 
Willie Blair (6-4), winless 
since Aug. 20, hit Reggie 
Sanders with a pitch in the sec­
ond, and Taubensee homered, 
giving the Reds a 2-1 lead. 
Sanders struck out to start 
the fourth, but Blair didn't get 
anybody out after that. He 
walked Hal Morris and 
Taubensee, and Boone and 
Branson each singled in a run. 
After Howard's triple, Andres 
Berumen was brought in to 
face Darren Lewis, who hit an 
RBI single. Berumen also gave 
up a solo homer to Jeff Bran­
son, his 12th, in the sixth. 
Mets 4, Astros 2 
Houston Astros missed a chance to gain ground in the 
wild-card race Thursday night, dropping a 4-2 decision to the New York Mets. 
With 16 games left in the reg­ular season, the Astros trail the Dodgers by 2 1/2 games in the chase for the fourth and final playoff spot. Los Angeles, which was idle Thursday, has 15 games remaining. 
Rico Brogna broke a 2-all tie with a two-run homer in the fifth inning, his team-leading 19th. The 420-foot line drive to straightaway center field also gave Brogna a team-high 61 RBis. 

Dave Mlicki (8-6) allowed only four hits in seven innings be­fore Paul Byrd worked the eighth and John Franco pitched the ninth for his 23rd save. The right-handed Mlicki walked five, but Astros hitters went just 2-for-15 with runners on base. 
Shane Reynolds (9-11) took the loss for Houston, allowing seven hits, four runs and three walks in five innings. The As­tros have scored only 21 runs in his 11 losses. 
ing single. 

In the bottom of the fifth, Ev­erett drew a leadoff walk off Reynolds. One out later, Brogna hit the two-run homer that ended up being the difference. 
Phillies 7, Pirates 2 
Charlie Hayes singled in two runs in a three-run fifth, carry­ing the Philadelphia Phillies to a 7-2 win over the Pittsburgh Pirates Thursday night. 
Paul Wagner (4-15), the Na­tional League's loss leader, put seven consecutive runners on base in the fifth with five hits and two walks. Andy VanSlyke singled in the first run and Hayes' two-out hit came with the bases loaded. 
Paul Quantrill (11-9) posted his second win in his last eight starts. He is 2-3 in that span. Quantrill worked 5 1-3 innings, allowing seven hits and two runs. Quantrill also started the winning rally with a single. 
Jacob Brumfield stole home for Pittsburgh's first rwi in the first. It was the Pirates' first steal of home exclusive of a double steal since John Can­gelosi was successful against Montreal on Sept. 15, 1987. Al Martin doubled in the sixth and scored on Orlando Merced's single. 
Jim Eisenreich led off the Phillies' second with his eighth home run and his third this season against Pittsburgh. Eisenreich's groundout scored another run in the seventh. 
The Pirates have lost eight of theur last nine and are a sea­son-worst 24 games under .500 at 52-76. 
Wagner has allowed 11 earned runs in 10 innings in his last two starts after winning consecutive games while allow­ing two earned runs in 16 1-3 innings. 
Kevin Stocker's two-run triple in the ninth scored the Phillies' final two runs. It was the Phillies' 14th hit of the game. 

The victory for New York, its 17th in the last 27 games, gave the Mets a split of the 12-game season series. im Bogar had two RBis andTCarl Everett, Todd Hundley and Ryan Thompson each had two hits for the Mets. Hundley scored twice. New York took a 1-0 lead in the second on Bogar's RBI groundout, and Houston tied it in the fourth on Ricky Gutier­rez's RBI single. The Mets went ahead 2-1 in the fourth on con­secutive singles by Hundley, Thompson and Bogar beore Houston tied it in the top of the h on Derrick May's run-scor­fift The Observer is now hiring for the following position: Assistant Systems Manager Ifyou are interested in learning more about Macintosh computers and have some proficiency, please contact Sean Gallavan at 631-8839. Freshmen are encouraged to apply.  
Be:fore you leave cainpus, m a.ke one last DETOUR to ... \R\S\ \ E~RE\SS The place to go :for ALL your NOTRE DAME sportswear & accessories] LaFortune Student Center (219)631-8128 Friday 12-9 pmIRISH EXPRESS Saturday 8 am-9 pmHOURS Sunday 9 am -3pm ---··-­We Accept both Visa. and Ma.st:::er Card ---­ 

.. 

"A 6HEAT fWI! I'm Sure I Won't see A 
Better Movte This Year." 
"{lo<lo ---.. filf!IT 

uone 01 The Ten Best films Ot The Year! 
Heal funny. Heal (reepy. Amazlng!n
__.._,lout 

~$one 01 The stranaest, Most DISIUrblni filmS In Years!" 
_,.._SAHF~C>!Il~t( 
"One 01 Tile Most Extraordinary 
& Rlveune films or The Yearr' 
~-SI$1<£i.&llfl"IIT 

"BEST FILM OF THE DECADE:' 
MON SEPT.18 
NOSFERATU 
7:00pm 
FORBIDDEN PLANET(195&) 
9:00pm 
TUE SEPT.l 9 Buster Keaton in 
SHERLOCK,JR. 
Charlie Chaplin in 
THE KID 
9:30pm 


~---------· 

Friday, September 15, 1995 The Observer· SPORTS page 27 
• BOXING 
Tyson's November fight to air on Fox 
By lARRY McSHANE 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Eight months after his release from jail, boxing fans will see Mike Tyson free. 
Tyson's Nov. 4 fight with Buster Mathis Jr. will air on the Fox network -one fight too lli.te for folks who paid $49.95 for the 89-second Peter McNee­ley fiasco, but perfectly timed tn deplete the pay-per-view audi­ence for the Hiddick Bowe­Evander Holyfield fight that same night. 
It will be the first major heavyweight fight on free TV since Muhammad Ali-Leon Spinks in 1978. 
The announcement Thursday means the fight eard for Nov. 4 now includes three bouts: Tyson vs. Mathis on Fox, Bowe vs. Holyfield on cable, and the night's real grudge match -Showtime vs. Time Warner Sports. 
Time Warner is airing the Bowe-Holyfield rubber match at $39.95. Showtime, which has exclusive rights to Tyson's fights, abandoned pay-per-view plans for the Mathis fight and approved the Fox deal. 
But Tyson promoter Don King said the move to Fox was not aimed at hurting Time Warner, his long-term nemesis. The spiky-haired spin doctor said the idea was a spiritual revela­tion that came to him and Tyson 35,000 feet up during a Concorde flight. 
"We were flying up there ... no telephones ringing, and the spirit just came upon us," said King. He approached media mogul Hupert Murdoch about bringing the light to Fox about two weeks ago, and the deal was quickly put in place. 
Fox officials would not com­ment on how much they paid for the bout, but said they ex­pected to break even. 
Tyson made $25 million for the McNeeley fight, and will probably make Jess against Mathis without a contribution from the rich pay-per-view pool. King said the decision was "not a (financial) sacrifice, but an investment" in Tyson's fu­ture popularity. 
As to his dispute with Time Warner, King replied, "I have no desire to get into a spitting match." 
The promoter repeatedly said this was Tyson's attempt to give something back to the public, although he emphatically denied the McNeeley fight was a ripoff. 
"That was the best Mike Tyson fight I ever saw," he said. 
This is latest blow in a feud that started when Tyson fin­ished serving his three-year rape sentence on March 25. 
Despite Time Warner's efforts to sign the ex-champ, Tyson chose King and Showtime. The bad feelings escalated until both sides announced plans for competing cards on Nov. 4. 
Reaction toward the an­nouncement was as predictable as the Tyson-McNeeley fight. 
"I think it's a huge embar­rassment for Showtime," said Holyfield's promoter,. Dan Duva. "All the time and money and effort they've invested in Don King and Mike Tyson, and then he shows up on Fox?" 
Showtime president Matt Blank said Tyson's appearance on free TV would boost interest in his next pay-per-view bout, set for March 16 against an undetermined opponent. 
"That can only build the leg­end of Mike Tyson, and that's the business we're in for the next couple of years -building the legend of Mike Tyson," Blank said. "That's to every­body's benefit." 
Said Seth Abraham, president of Time Warner Sports: "We 
BEFORE TRUSTING YOUR FUTURE TO ANY COMPANY; ASI< FOR SOME LETTERS OF REFERENCE. 
'Tou put more than just your savings into a .1. retirement company. You put in your trust and hopes for the future, too. So before you choose one, ask some questions. How stable is the company? How solid are its investments? How sound is its overall financial health? A good place to start looking for answers is in the ratings of independent analysts. Four companies, all widely recognized resources for finding out how strong a financial services company really is, gave TIAA their top grade. 
IN THE FINAL ANALYSIS, TIAA IS LETTER PERFECT. 
TIAA received A++ (Superior) from A.M. Best Co., AAA from Duff & Phelps Credit Rating Co., Aaa from Moody's Investors Service and AAA from Standard & Poor's. These ratings reflect TIAA's stability, sound investments, claims-paying ability 
and overall financial strength. (These are ratings of 


Ensuring the future for those who shape it.... 
insurance companies only, so they do not apply to CREF.) 
And TIAA-which, backed by the company's claims-payin~ ability, offers a guaranteed rate of return and the opportunity for dividends-is one of a handful of insurance companies nationwide that currently hold these highest marks. 
CREF, FOUR MORE LETTERS EVERYONE SHOULD KNOW. 
For further growth potential and diversification, there's the CREF variable annuity, with seven different investment accounts to give you the flexibility you want as you save for the future. 0 
Together, TIAA and CREF form the world's largest private retirement system based on assets under management, with over $145 billion in assets and more than 75 years of experience serving the education community. For over a million and a half people nationwide, the only letters to remember are TIAA-CREF. 
"Not all account• are ava,ilable under the basic retirement plans at all institutions. They are, however, all available for TIAA-CREF Supplemental Retirement Annuities (SRAa). CREF certificates are diotributed by TIAA-CREF Individual & Institutional Services. 
will respond at the appropriate time." 
The light will air in the mid­dle of sweeps week, ensuring the fourth network a major rat­ings hit. The Tyson fight will anchor three hours of live prime-time programming, which means fight fans could probably see both bouts. The Tyson program would likely run from 8-11 p.m.; the main events in pay-per-view fights generally begin after 11 p.m. 
'That fight will be over before our fight." Duva said. "The free fight doesn't affect our event at all." • 
Might the Bowe-Holyfield fight be moved up a day to Nov. 3? 
"I personally have no prob­lem with it," Duva said. "Nov. 4 is nothing sacred to me." 
Phil Cooper, vice president of public relations for Caesars Palace, insisted the Bowe-Holy­field fight will go forward Nov. 4. 
"We believe we have the bet­ter fight," he said. "The pay­per-view audience is going to go for the quality." 
Tyson's comeback "fight" against McNeeley set a pay-per­view record with 1.5 million buys and $63 million in U.S. sales. The previous record­holder was the 1991 Holyfield­George Foreman tussle, with 
1.4 million buys. 




----~ -~-~--­
The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 15, 1995 
• Cou.EGE FooTBAll 

Future Irish opponents to clash in nationally televised showdown 

By RUSTY MILLER 
Associated Press 

COLUMBUS, Ohio 
Washington quarterback Da­mon Huard doesn't have pleas­ant memories of his last trip to Ohio State. Actually, he doesn't have many memories at all. 
"Half the time I had a concus­sion, so I don't remember all of it," Huard said with a laugh of a 21-12 loss in Columbus two years ago. 
Ohio State's players feel the same way about last year's game in Seattle. 
The Buckeyes fell behind 19­0 just 10 minutes into the game. Washington walked away with a 25-16 victory behind 211 yards rushing and one touchdown by Napoleon Kaufman. 
"What do I remember?" Ohio State defensive back Shawn Springs said. "I remember Napoleon Kaufman." 
Heading into Saturday's matchup between the 18th­ranked Huskies and 1Oth­ranked Buckeyes, both teams are 1-0 and have visions of na­tional title contention. 
Both are coming off a lengthy layoff, Washington sitting out last week after a 23-20 victory over Pac-10 opponent Arizona State. Ohio State hasn't had a game in 20 days, since beating Boston College 38-6 in the Kickoff Classic. 
"I don't think that one team starting earlier is nearly as im­portant as who's playing at home," Washington coach Jim Lambright said. 
The recent history of the se­ries supports that. 
Finance Club 
Several of the key performers the last two years are gone. Kaufman has graduated, and Leon Neal replaces him. He rushed for 105 yards in his first career start against Arizona State. Butler By'not'e, who broke open the 1993 game with a 49-yard touchdown run early in the fourth quarter, is now in the pros. 
Huard, like Ohio State's Bob Hoying, is a fifth-year senior quarterback who has started for three years. He still has vague memories of the game at Ohio Stadium two years ago. 
"I remember their lin!) with (Dan) 'Big Daddy' Wilkinson," Huard said. "I can just re­member they were big, physical guys and that's their style of play. They get after you and they hit us harder than proba­bly anyone we play all year." 
Ohio State coach John Cooper said the strength of Washing­ton's team is its defense, led by free safety Lawyer Milloy and inside linebacker Ink Aleaga. The Buckeyes have a solid line, eight receivers who caught passes against Boston College, a veteran quarterback and a 1,400-yard rusher in Eddie George. 
But they still are capable of mistakes against a troublesome defense like Washington's. 
"We don't necessarily ask our quarterback to get us in good situations so much as just don't get us in bad situations," Cooper said. "Hopefully we can get some kind of rhythm going. Two years ago we moved the ball on them pretty good the whole game. But they give you some headaches, some prob­lems with their defense." 
Ohio State is a seven-point fa­vorite in the nationally televised game. 

The Observer 
is now hiring for the following paid positions: 
Circulation Drivers 
Drivers make $7.50/hr and must have between 
11:00 a.m -3:00 p.m. open in your schedule. 
Ifinterested in this paid position call Joe Riley at 1-5313 
Caner Night 
Representatives from 30 firms to meet with you 
American National Bank Andersen Consulting Arthur Andersen Baxter Dean Witter Reynolds Dow Jones & Co. ELCO Industries First Boston Corporation International Paper KEYCORP LaSalle National Corporation Olde Discount Brokers PNC Bank Procter & Gamble Prudential Preferred Mutual of Omaha Northwestern Mutual Life Ford Motor Company General Electric EDS Bank of America Cargill NBD Bank National City Corp. 
Sophomores  -Juniors  -Seniors  
AllMajatS  
Tuesday Evening, September 26  7:00p.m.  

Atrium New College of Business Building 
.______________________________________________________________ 
Friday, September 31, 1995 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 29 
























' 
The staff of Campus Ministry extends an invitation for you to come together and celebrate the Eucharist while on campus this weekend. 
Twenty..fourth Sunday in Ordinary Time Vanderbilt Football Weekend September 16 and 17, 1995 
lgi asses 
Stepan Center 45 minutes after game 
asses 
Basilica 8:00, 10:00 &11:45 am 
0M~U~ 
Sacred Heart Parish Crypt 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:30 
11:00 am
MN 


~------------------------------~------------------~ ­

compete.' play smart." "Everyone has a certain 
role," she explained.  "We  As  luck would have it,  
have quite a few players who lead by example; I  Ragen Coyne will be back next season to use her  GREENWOOD  
think everyone does that on the field." Coach Petrucelli, on the  fourth and final season .of eligibility while fulfilling her undergraduate degree. This  SHOPPING CENTER IRONWOOD & SR23  
other hand, has no qualms about looking towards the  means that not only will she have this season as a chance  (NEAR VIDEOWATCH)  
midfielder in  a  leadership  to  claim  the  national  
role.  championship, but next sea­ 
"Ragen's  definitely  a  son as well.  However, she's  

··I!] 
~ 
~o, lfhat A.re lou I Wearing: To The I ;Game? 1 
•URBAN OUTfiTTERS •COATS/JACKETS I ~ •VINTAGE LEVI'S •SOCKS,TIGHTS,BELTS ;I •HATS I 
10% offwith Student ID 
I 
I 

BELLE PLAZA 
I 

~=T~: 
(3 DooRS FROM HALL OF FAME)

MPRO~E 

OUR 
page 30 The Observer • SPORTS 
• WoMEN's SoccER 

Stanford to provide biggest test 
The Observer/Mike Ruma Kate Fisher will have to be sharp on defense if the Irish hope to defeat Michigan State and thrid-ranked Stanford in this weekend's action. 
Karen ••• 
Hanging Around at Bars -Now its 
Happy 21st. 
Mom, Dad, Beth & Bitsy 
By JOE VILLINSKI Assistant Sports Editor 

For the past two years most of the women's soccer world has been looking up at Notre Dame. 
After finishing last season atop the polls, the Irish currently are ranked No. 2 following four consecutive shutouts. Due to this lofty status, teams are preparing for the Irish with a healthy respect: 
"It'll be a monumental task," said Michigan State coach Tom Saxton, who along with Stan­ford will face the Irish this weekend in the Notre Dame Invitational at Alumni Field. 
Leave it to women's coach Chris Petrucelli to dispel the idea of the Irish being soccer giants. 
"We 're still a toddler right now," Petrucelli said. "It'll be a while before we're a full-grown adult. We're continuing to learn things about each other." 
Much like the life cycle, the season proceeds this weekend as the Irish hope two top-20 teams do not stunt their growth. 
The Spartans are currently No. 19, while the No. 3 Cardinal will be the highest ranked team tfie Irish have faced to date. 
"This will be our biggest test," midfielder Ragen Coyne noted. 
In their brief history, Notre Dame has never defeated Stanford, losing to them in both 1992 and 1993. For the Irish, defense could deter­mine if they break through against the Cardinal. 
"Our defending will be challenged," Petrucelli said. "We will also have to finish our chances because we won't get as many." 
This challenge will be met by the defensive unit of Ashley Scharff, Kate Sobrero, and Kate Fisher who will once again face pressure similar to what they encountered in the 1-0 win over Wisconsin. 
"Wisconsin was a much harder team," mid­fielder Stacia Masters said. "They were marking us more which took away from our attacking." 
As a unit, the three will look to counter the pressure with experience. 
"This year we know how everyone works," Fisher said. "We have more of a feel of what the other is going to do and have to communicate less." 
Sweeper Jessica Fischer and forward Erin Martin will be putting the pressure on the Irish defense. 
"They have quality players at every position," Petrucelli noted. "Fischer may be one of the best sweepers in the country." 
With a veteran team, the Spartans will also present an imposing challenge on Friday night. 
"This is the best team we've had in recent years," Saxton said. "We feel good about our chances." 
"They're a physical team, typical of the Big Ten," Petrucelli commented. "They're also fast and like to play a lot of long balls." 
Part of their speed lies with sweeper Marcy Dart who was named to the all Big Ten team last year. Midfielder Susan Gibson, a teammate of Coyne's former club team, is strong both offen­sively and defensively. Finally, Kristen Lester, sister of former Irish great Alison Lester, is cur­rently on a pace to lead the Spartans in scoring. 
"Against Michigan State, we have to be careful not to look past them," Petrucelli said. "We also have to possess the ball." 
Masters, along with Holly Manthei, have been possessing the ball a majority of the time this year. Midfielder Cindy Daws continues to be day to day after playing in her first game against Wisconsin. Freshman Shannon Boxx will start again in place of Daws who is still suffering from two pulled quadricep muscles. 
leader. She's a kid a lot of not looking past the team's 
players respect, not just for chances for this season to her play on the field, but for win it all. continued from page 36 her attitude off the field, and "We are so talented on the for the way she handled her field," she said. "It's hard 
"Girls are coming into injury," Petrucelli said. for another team to target their own and challenging If not as a leader, how one player on our team to for positions," she said. would the senior describe mark, because we're all so "The talent level is so high herself? talented. We also have a that we need to recruit at "I'm a little-bit-of-every­mindset when we go onto that level. It used to be that thing player," she said. "I the field that we're not go­we'd recruit seven or eight have a defensive role; I'm a ing to lose. I'd say that our players in a class; now, we playmaker sometimes, along chances are excellent." can't find that many people with the other center mid­Considering the way the who have the skills to come fielder. I do whatever needs team has played so far, in at the level where we to be done. And I also try to that's not a bold prediction. 
Coyne 

Fresh·brewed coffee. And aselection of your favorite donuts. 
1m 
That's why nothing beats Dunkin' Donuts for amajor cram session.
THE 687 "9123 M~F 10~8 1 
------$1-0ff-------~--One-Free-Donut-Sat 10~6 ; A D D t I with the purchase of a
STYLE ; Ozen OnU 5 I medium or large coffee.
Sun 12~ 4 !lvauablt only at perocipatmg Dunkin' Donuts'~· Ont coupon per customer per I Available only at partiCipating Dunkin' Donuts'· \hops. ()n( coupon per c~tOtner per visit. Milt not~ combint<l w•tn any otntr coupon or premrum olfe: Shop must retain I Yllit. WJY not~ combintd Wrtl\ any otntr Coupoll or premium olftr Shop most retam
C0 INC 

• • Lalatyearawtat"oyns&avat"lable coupon.Taxnnot«ludcd DUNKIN' O!ferSOOd I coupon.Tamnotlncluded. DUNKIN' OOerSOOd Alternative CiothingforWomen 1I DONUTS0 thnlt2/JII9s. I DONUTSe Ultuilllt19s I 
• ~~~-l:!llgijg~~ggMgi!ml~~~iimi!~i!li!lii!l~· L------------------..L------------------__l 

Friday, September 15, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 31 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALL 
Disciplinary problems plague top teams 
-not just football players ­there will be three or four brushes with the law every year. 
He also said he will not toler­ate violence against women. 
A member of the Nebraska Chancellor's Commission on the Status of Women, Jane Conoley, applauded Osborne for indefi­nitely suspending Phillips but said a problem remains. 
"I see this -and I think peo­ple on the commission see this -as a dramatic example of the larger problem that there's still a lot of violence against wom­en" on campus, she said. 
Conoley, a professor of educa­tional psychology, said she be-· lieves men in all-male enclaves "are more prone to violence toward women, and I'd include fraternities as well as athletic teams." She said men in such groups commit a dispropor­tionate number of offenses on campus. 
Jim Griesen, the university's vice chancellor for student af­fairs, said there is no more vio­lence among athletes than among all students at the Lin­coln campus . lie said campus violence has mirrored the in­crease in violence in society. 
Ron Brown, who coaches Ne­braska receivers, said it was ludicrous to suggest a tendency to violence is necessary for great football achievement. 
"We live in a violent world, and if you look at most of the violence in this country, it doesn't come from athletes," Brown said. 
V-Ball 
continued from page 36 
throughout the match." 
The 6-1 Oklahoma Sooners, led by sophomore hitters Patrice Arrington (102 kills, 55 digs) and Melissa Peterson (86 kills, 18 blocks), are much im­proved this season after finish­ing last season with a 16-16 record. 
Like a pebble in the path of an 18-wheeler, the Boilermakers pose no serious threat to the Irish. Purdue, after finishing 4-16 in 1994, enters the weekend with a 1-4 
-
mark. Middle blocker Lauri Grimes leads the team with 59 kills and 41 digs and ranks second with 14 blocked shots. 
All three teams will have trouble shutting down Notre Dame's explosive quartet of May, Jaimie Lee, Angie Harris, and Jenny Birkner. The four have made life miserable for opponents so far this season. 
"We've been successful so far, but we have a lot to improve on," said Birkner. "Our ball control hasn't been that good so far and our pass-· ing hasn't been as good as we'd like." 
Playing at full strength for the first time this season, Birkner was named to the all­tournament team last weekend after recording 27 kills and 42 digs. Lee, a unanimous selec­tion for tournament MVP, has recorded 91 kills and 53 digs, while teammate Harris leads the team with 100 kills and 65 digs. 
"We have a long way to go before we get to where we want to be," said May. "We've been working a lot this week on our passing and setting, so hopefully we'll get better." 
This type of pursuit of perfection has led the Irish to a perfect start. 

By STEVE KLINE 
Associat~d Pr~ss 
LINCOLN, Neb. 

It happened at Oklahoma. It happened at Miami. It hap­pened at Colorado. 
.And it .is happening at Ne­braska. 
The Sooners, Hurricanes, Buffaloes and Cornhuskers reached the dizzying height of college football's Division I na­tional championship, only to tumble in a swamp of player discipline problems. 
Athletes at schools with less successful teams also get into trouble, but recent Division I football champions almost al­ways seem to have player woes. Is it a coincidence or does a coach need unruly players to win the national crown? 
Defending national champion and second-ranked Nebraska has three players facing crimi­nal charges: Heisman Trophy contender Lawrence Phillips is accused of hitting his ex-girl­friend; cornerback Tyrone Williams is accused of shooting at a car, and receiver Riley Washington is charged with attempted murder. 
A fourth player was arrested last weekend on suspicion of assault. Two other members of the national title team earlier were put on probation for sex­ual assault and possession of stolen property. 
Are violence-prone players needed to play the intense, bru­tal, lights-out football that is re­quired to win a national title? 
"No," coach Tom Osborne says. "Personally, I'm a little offended by that question." 
Other champs have had their share of post-title hangovers: 1990 co-champion Colorado had 24 player arrests between 1986 and 1988, and a player who had a loaded gun was bounced out of school in 1992, Colorado assistant athletic di­rector Dave Plati said. Miami gained a reputation for un­sportsmanlike conduct. A few years after Oklahoma won the 1985 title, a player shot a team­mate and three players were charged with raping a woman in the football dorm. 
Osborne said that with any group of 150 college-age men 
O
nly at Perkins® Fatnily Restaurants can you enjoy all of your breakfast, lunch and dinner favorites anytin1e of the day. Like our fluffy buttern1ilk pancakes, scrumptious edible bread bowl salads, premiun1 three-egg omelettes, crean1y chicken pot pies and tnore. All available when you're hungry. Morning. Noon. Or night. 


page 32 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 15, 1995 
X-Country 
continued from page 36 
the NCAA's," Piane said. "Not many teams can boast that." 
The five runners who have been to the NCAA's are seniors Joe Dunlop, Derek Seiling, and Derek Martisus; along with ju­nior Matt Althoff and sopho­more Jason Hexing. 
Surprisingly enough, Piane also feels it is a young squad. Notre Dame will have several underclassmen competing, in­cluding some freshmen, as the Irish had an "outstanding" re­cruiting year. 
Notre Dame will run twelve 
• SPORTS-BRIEFS 
• Off-Campus· Socce~:·!~~ee~ 
guys fm;,.the Off~$ Intramural soccer te ·_ D&vid Shaw at 277-3~() 
Climbing wan Ori~n ~All Climbing Wall pants must compl~t Climbing Wall Orien4\ti~. sion before they e 
"QP~ll;., N!.U:s~ ~f ·• 
Orientations are ery sunday (beginni 17) ffqm ~.2:30-2•99 other.Thursday (b Sept. 14} from 5:30-7:0 vanced registratiQ.Q. _....... Rockne front desk fo •e·-· sessions is required, but ~pace is.lQnJted~·>· ·: .. . :==.::::I::Iwt1ii~Jf4;W·0irilW!~~~:~::::: 
· Rowing Club -There'--'Willl>e a team meeting otf Wednesday, September 20 at 
7:00 in Rm. 127 Nieuwland: Please bring your chec_kbook~, There will be an orgaril~tion:f: al meeting for all novice row:> &rs tonight in Rm. l.?~?. in. Hayes Healey at 7:00) All interested men and women are welcome to attend. · 
Ultimate Frisbee· RecSports is offering campus Ultimate Frisbee, campus co• rec illllertllbe water polo and interhall & gradlfac/staff rac­quetball singles for bqtl'l m~R and women. The entries begin September 20 and the deadline is September~;Z ~l 5pm. The captains' meeting for water polo js 5:30 Pill and forfdsbee _at q:lq'~JA.~:tn. September 28 in theuJACC Auditorium. If you have ques­tions! ea,}l RecSpor~~ !l
6100. ... .... 
Basketball Officials -Rec• Sports is hiring co•rec basket".i hall officials for the upcoming

-season. There will be a mandatory officials mt'leting on October 5th in the JACC Auditorium at 5:30 pm. Those interested· should come to the RecSports office and fill out an application before (}ctobef 5th. If-you-have qu(lstion.s\ call RecSports at 1-6100. 
runners at Ohio State. Running with Dunlop, Seiling, Martisus, Althoff, and Hexing likely will be seniors Jeff Hojnacki and Mike Smedley; junior Jonathan Kraas; sophomores Mike Conway and Scott Grace; and freshmen Antonio Arce and Ryan Maxwell. 
Dunlop, a co-captain, will be a key runner for the Irish. Dunlop has been to the NCAAs twice in cross country and once in track. Dunlop finished third at the MCC championships. 
Seiling missed last season being studying architecture in Rome, but was a strong per­former as a sophomore, fmish­ing third at the National Catholic Championships and fourth at the MCC Champi­onships. 
Hexing finished second among the Irish runners at the NCAA finals last season and Althoff has a pair of top 100 finishes in the NCAA champi­onships. 
What will be important for continued Irish success this season? 
"One thing we need to con­centrate on is running in a competitive, close knit group," Piane said. 
The Notre Dame women's cross country team finished fif­teenth at the 1993 national championships, and just missed an automatic berth to the NCAA Championships last season. The Irish hope to continue to build on the success of the nine-year-old program. 
Senior Maureen Kelly is one 
of four monogram winners re­
turning from last season. Kelly 
was an individual qualifier for 
the NCAA championships a 
year ago. 

"This is her last go around 
and I think she's really deter­mined to do something special," coach Tim Connelly said. "Not just her, she wants the team to be special. Her goal is to be an All-American and I don't think that is out of the question." 
The other co-captain is senior Kristen Dudas. who finished twenty-fifth at the District IV championships. 
Junior Emily Hood finished was the team's second finisher in the '93 championships as a freshmen, but had a variety of injuries last season. 
"Emily has to step up and re­gain the level she was at as a freshmen," Connelly said. "A lot of what we do as a team de­pends on how well she runs." 
The final returning mono­gram winner is senior Amy Siegel, a school record holder in the mile, and ran in all six team meets a season ago. 
Piane said the other eight runners on Saturday probably will be juniors Emily Dodds, MCC newcomer of the year Lindsay Dutton, Michelle Lavi­
gne, and Carolyn Long;  sopho­ 
mores Janel Kiley and  Mieke  
Walsh;  freshmen  Kelly  

Peterson and Mary Volland. 

On Saturday, the Irish will run against Butler, Louisville, Ashland, Youngstown State, and Ohio State. 
"Last season we were a very good cross country team that just didn't get it done in the meet we had to get it done in," said Connelly. "We improved tremendously on the track last year and, I think the disap­pointment of our cross country finish fueled that improvement. Hopefully, that desire will carry over to this fall." 
Catch -:::E-b.~ ::1:..e»::.:1g:£~11e»""''IIIV&, Appearing in your area! Fri. September 15th ~a--tz Wed. September 20th Bridget McGuire's 
23rd Annual Summer Program 
NO-SMC Students 
lL©m1cdl©m1 [R?.@[ITfU ® [M](ID~ gg = DMm1@ g~ 
DMm1® ~@ = DM~~ ~ 35 
Travel in Ireland, Scotland, & France Travel in France, Germany, & Switzerland 
Courses offered in 
Biology, Photography, Sociology, Business & Economics, History, Italian 
Organizational I Meeting -October 3 
7:00 pm Carroll Hall • Pizza Social • 
Past student and faculty participants will be present, 
For info:rna.tion call Prof. Black 
284-4460 or 272-3726 
1995 Notre Dame Men's and Women's Cross Country 
Date Sept. 15 Sept. 16 Sept. 22 Oct. 6 Oct. 14 Oct. 28 Nov. 11 
Event/Site 
Ohio State Columbus, Ohio Valparaiso Invitational Valparaiso, Indiana NATIONAL CATHOLIC MEET 
Notre Dame, Indiana NOTRE DAME INVITATIONAL Notre Dame, Indiana 
Iowa State XC Classic Ames, Iowa BIG EAST Championships New York, New York NCAA Regionals West Lafayette, Indiana 

Will 0 Testament 
A Life after Death Comedy 

by 
Fredric Stone 
& 
William Shakespeare 
Date: Sept. 17 
-tit­
Time: 7:30 
SAINT
Place: little Theatre 
MARY'S 

Cost: Students $3.00 COLLEGE 
NOliUl DAME. IN 

General $4.00 Call for ticket Info 284-4626 
South Bends Newest Oasis! 
Stop By Before The Game••• Open at 7a.m. this Saturday! 
Edison Plaza • 1631 Edison Rd. Monday-Friday 7:00a.m.-Midnight 
Saturday 9:00a.m. -Midnight Now Open Sunday lOa.m. • lOp.m.* 

(across from the Linebacker) 
(219) 273-6216 *limited menu on Sunda On! ! 
--~~-~--­


adidaS Notre Dame Invitational 
7:30 TONIGHT! 
Nationally-Ranked #2 Notre Dame 
-vs.-­
Nationally-Ranked #19 Michigan State 
12:00 SUNDAY! All. =:;a 
Nationally-Ranked #2 Notre Dame ~ !'Jlllt 
-vs. SUNDAY-BLIMPIE SUB 
Nationally-Ranked #3 Stanford 
GIVEAwAvFoREVERvoNE! 
• 
• 
..­


-


page 34 

The Observer • SPORTS 
• MEN'S SOCCER 

Irish travel to New Jersey to face defending conference champions 

"Americans At Their Best'' BENEFITS INCLUDE: -EXTRA INCOME ( 4 DAYS PAY FOH 2 DAYS WORK -PAID JOB TRAINING/EXPERIENCE -RECREATIONAL FACILITIES -FLEXIBLE SCHEDULING -MANAGEMENT/LEADERSHIP TRAINING -LOW COST LIFE INSURANCE COVERAGE -MEDICAL/DENTAL CARE -TRAVEL PRIVILEGES -SCHOLARSHIP AVAILABILITY -TUITION ASSISTANCE (GI BILL) -EARN COLLEGE CREDITS -VA HOME LOAN GUARANTEE -SURVIVOR BENEFIT PROGRAM -RETIREMENT BENEFIT PROGRAM FOR DETAILS CALL SSG TAYLOR (219) 234-9258  


no re

....... er... 
VARSITY SHOP 
dame
.... 
invitational 
Tonight 

5:00 p.m. -#3 Stanford vs. #9 Vanderbilt 
7:30p.m.-#2 NOTRE DAME vs. #19 Michigan State 
Sunday 

Noon-#2 NOTRE DAME vs. #3 Stanford, WE'RE MORE TH;\N 2:00 p.m. -#19 Michigan State vs. #9 Vanderbilt JUST SPORTSWE;\R. 
notre dame women•s soccer 
By DYlAN BARMMER Sports Writer 

The quizzes have been ad­ministered, and the Notre Dame men's soccer team has passed­with flying colors. The first game of the season was an 8-0 trouncing. The second was a 7­0 triumph. The first Big East contest ever was a 3-0 win. As impressive as these numbers have been, perhaps the team's first real test of the season will come this weekend. 
'fhe Irish travel to soccer­crazy New Jersey this weekend, carrying with them high hopes, a·#6 ranking in the ISAA coach­es poll, and a developing aura of confidence. Waiting to administer the exam are #7 Rutgers and Seton Hall, two powerful Big East opponents who hold the upper hand on the Irish in one key area: game experience. 
"My concerns for this week­end involve our lack of experi­ence in big games, and our lack of depth due to injuries," mused head coach Mike Berticelli. 
Oh yes, the injuries. In addi­tion to losing forward Ryan Turner for the season, the Irish will travel without forward Scott Wells (bad back). mid­fielder Erik Berg (knee injury), and defender Philip Murphy (flu). Defender Matt Mahoney's status remains uncertain, as the freshman has yet to play since suffering a sprained left ankle late in the season opener against DePaul. 
• ·so it is that theyoung, banged up Irish head into this week­end's games with a #6 ranking. "We're all a little surprised at the ranking," said Berticelli. It's a nice compliment from the other coaches, but it's still so early in the season. I've never been too big on rankings my­self. My only concern is where we are at the end of the sea­son." 
While the Irish have outscored the opposition 18-0 in their first three games of the season and boast the top goal­
.. 
tending duo in the nation so far, the numbers may be a little de­ceptive. The best team the Irish have faced so far has been Big East rival Syracuse, and all three games have been at home. If any team will pose a test for the Irish, it will be Rut­gers, says Berticelli. 
"Rutgers is definitely a top five team," said the Irish head coach. "Many publications have picked them to win it all this year. They return nearly everyone from last year, and they had a great recruiting class._ How we compare with them will be seen." 
Rutgers comes into the week­end with a 2-1 overall record, their only loss coming in over­time to last year's national runner-up Indiana. The Scarlet Knights have a storied soccer tradition, with Head Coach Bob Reasso's 200-68-30 career mark at the school, the custom­ary big crowds, and "soccer rocker" alumnus Alexi Lalas. Rutgers captured the Big East title last year, and will certainly be aiming to retain it once again this season. 
Leading the Scarlet Knights are senior forwards Rob John­son and Hamisi Amani-Dove. The duo combined for 22 goals and 54 points last season, and have accounted for two of the team's four goals this season. The tough Rutgers defense has yielded just one goal in three games so far this year. 
If the Irish can get past the Scarlet Knights on Friday night, they will have a significantly greater chance of downing the Pirates of Seton Hall on Sunday afternoon. 
The Pirates are coming off a 9-3 trouncing of Pennsylvania, and will bring a 2-2 record into Sunday's contest. Forwards Tom Houston and Michael Ma­garinos have proved an even more lethal combination than Rutgers' up front this season, having combined for seven goals and twenty points in only four games. Last year the duo teamed up for 19 goals and 57 points. 
The Irish may be developing their own 1-2 punch up front, with the emergence of fresh­man forward Ben Bocklage complementing the stellar play of Bill Lanza. The speedy se­nior has four goals and six as­sists for fourteen points, and the bruising Bocklage has tal­lied three goals in his last three games. This "Thunder and Lightning" tandem is just in its infancy, and both players have seen only partial time this sea­son. 
Berticelli will also continue to rotate his goalkeepers, shuffiing between sophomore Peter Van de Ven and freshman Greg Velho. In summing up the chal­lenge at hand for the Irish this weekend, Berticelli is quick to note the strength of his com­petition. 
"This is about as tough a weekend as you can have in the conference," commented the Irish head coach. "I think we are as ready as we can be at this point in the season." 
DAVE KELLETT YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1995 (For your personalit.ed daily Jeane Dixon horoscope, based on your own date of binh, call 1-900-988-7788. Your phone company will bill you 99 
Friday, September 15, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 35 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
f.\OBBI:.S' Do~T  I  G\JE.5<3 Ill  SORR'i, Ct>-l'll\'l,  
G\Jt>-RO ROSf\li\'1!  JUS\ \-111-1/t. TO  I  TOUC\-1"£.\)  
I'!<\ GO\~ TO  5011-K 'IOJ  'iOU W\T\.1 11\E  
GE"\" 1-\E.R W\111  &JTIJ 11\E\'1!  BASi SinER  
111\S BAllOON .'  ~AI-IAHA.'.  FLAG .../""'~./!  

DILBERT 

ACROSS 30 Red Cross procedure
1 Vessel for 34 Getting close 
Pasteur 38 Think tank 
8 Accord nugget
10 Goofball 38 Burdened
14 --Picchu (site of lncan ruins) 31 1966 Naguib Mahfouz novella 
15 Tijuana eight 42 Perfect copy
18 Race track 17 Illustrator's goof 
43 Lamb sandwich, in Greek 18 Neeson of film cookery

11 Coburg canine 44 Loam 
20 Financial 45 "Black Beauty"connivances author
23 It gives you a 47 Top-flight 
charge Abbr. 24 Hat tipper's 
49 Clinic heads, lor word 
short 

ao Reaction to a suisse 
25Eggs­
pinch 

28 Odyssey 52 Await 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
E 
4~~ NEAL HEREAT H A T ~ G I ~J:.. l!_il G R E 

NAGIALGA TRANC 
URIEL PAY~ LOP. 
METRIC NE~g_·TEG 
BAHT PORCINE 
ARGOITRE UBOATS 
PARA NYLO~IUTES 
ECARTE MA~ NERO R E D D E S T F E L T SHA·1>~CA DEEMED 
.OTT~~UPS PRADO 
ORIOLE SPOT~ING 
ISOMER EEROI~~J 
LENSES SEEN !2.~ 

54 1994 Tobias Wolff memoir 80 Dreyfus ally, 
1898 

81 Second of a Latin trio 
82 Fifth element 84 Name of two Danish kings 
85 Pulitzer winner James 88 Feudal lord 87 •1 Presley hit &8 Minus 89 Rock's Van Hal en 
DOWN 

1 Some radios 2 Beacon 3--deucey 4 Brokerage unit 5 "On the Road" 
newsman 8 Narc's assistant 7 It reddens litmus 
paper 8 Crevasse 9 Tabby's courter 
10 Coffeehouse denizens 11 Egg cell 12 First name in westerns 13 Auto pioneer 21 Type of badge 22 Roaring Camp writer 25 Radar system acronym 
cents a minute.) 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE 

NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Those in education, the arts and advertising will enjoy tremendous success now. lmpo11ant agreements will be signed before year's end. Your income rises precipitously as 1996 gets underway. Romantic fire. works are replaced by a deep con­tentment. Look forward to favorable changes in your living and working conditions as next summer approaches. Longtime pressures dis­appear. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: director Oliver Stone. actor Tommy Lee Jones, pianist 
... W\-10 St>-iS \ l's A. \1/1.-LH\<YJR Bobby Short. mystery author 
I'P.S\ 'ICl~R 8£.DIII'IIE \'lOW Agatha Christie. LEIS G<::> 1\'l. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Avoid going overboard where spending is concerned. Complete unfinished business before staning a new project. Interesting challenges arise at work. Meet them successful­ly and you will win a promotion. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Weigh the advantages of 11 new plan against the risks involved. An insur­ance matter requires close scrutiny. A romantic partner presses for a commitment you are not ready to make. Refuse to be rushed. 
GEMINI (Mav 21-June 20): Appearances can-be deceiving. 
SCOTT ADAMS Probe beneath the surface when unusual things happen. Sticking to a schedule is the key to higher pro­ductivity at work. Neighbors invite you to a pany. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Neighborhood activities give you a positive feeling about yourself and your fainily. Volunteering to help_a children's group proves especially rewarding. Romance deepens. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): A day­dream points you in the right direc­tion. Consider going back to school or attending business seminars. A co-worker may seek your advice about a personal problem. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your expenise impresses a potential romantic panncr. An open, friendly conversation encourages you to sug­gest a lunch date. A pany invitation arrives, spurring you to shop for a special outlit. Try wearing brighter colors. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Take your time when dealing with com­plicated matters. A difficult task will he completed before the deadline. Work hard while on the job, then let go. Discussing mutual aims brings family members closer together. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): A message leads you to rethink your priorities. One-on-one encounters are favored. Encourage loved ones to make their needs known. Look for ways to imp10ve your family's financial security. Love blossoms under tough circumstances. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Focus on improving your per­sonal relationships. If you really want to feel connected to others, open your heart. A friend phones with exciting news or a special invi­tation. Rejoice in this pal's good for­
•
tune! 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Curb a tendency to worry about everything. A pessimistic attitude can prevent new and wonderful things from happening. Lighten up! Your faith in someone will be rewarded. Dining a deux holds spe­cial appeal tonight. Be romantic. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Enlist the aid of your co-workers if faced with a project that is too big for you to handle alone. An old friend offers good advice. Panicipat­ing in a local event will boost your public profile. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 201: Complete routine tasks first before launching a new project. A system­atic search will help you uncover the truth. Keep accurate records. An optimistic attitud<: helps you win a competition. Romance sweeps you off your feet. 
• OF INTEREST 

M.S.A. students and alumni will be tailgating in front ofDeBartolo Hall one hour before the game this Saturday. 
Students for social awareness will have an orga­nizational meeting for a new social concerns group (the SSA} to be held at 7:30 p.m. on Sunday the 17th in the entrance ball of O'Shag. 
.. ,. ·~''"·'· 
•MENU 
Notre Dame 

+H,:~~:~~;t,;:.~;;... .·' ··~~;,~f, 
North " 
Corn Dogs Poached Orange Roughy Honey Baby Carrots 
ShlntMary's 
Swedish Meatballs Turkey Divan Buttered Noodles South 

Baked Pollack Cajun Chicken Sandwich Long Grain Wild Rice 

28 Chowder server 27 Pointer 29 Runner Kip 
Keino's homeland 31 Accepted statement 32lcy 
33Jamesian scholar Leon et al. 
35 Colliery access 37 Stagnates 40 Beau, slangily 

41 Perfects 55 Ambivalent plea, 
for short

4& Relating to 
young insects 56 Blueprint 48 Empower 57 Works inspired 
(~J..I~ilN
by Erato baseball 58 Equine on the 53 Servant of the 
51 Satchel of 
tube future? 59 Hindu ascetic 54 --Lacoste &3 Name part 
IJI, Yf)IJil 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
..l'f.II~SS'''
.....: t.: ••• 
• 

GREG IS COMING! GREG IS COMING! 
GREG LOUGANIS IS COMING TO NOTRE DAME!! 
COME TO STEPAN CENTER TO HEAR WHAT THIS FAMOUS SWIMMER HAS TO SAY ABOUT HIS TRIUMPHS AND TRIBULATIONS CONCERNING HIS LIFE, DEALING WITH HOMOSEXUALITY, AND LIVING WITH AIDS! 
WHEN:  SEPTEMBER  19, 1995  
TIME:  7:00 P.M.  
WHERE:  STEPAN CENTER  

ADMISSION PRICE: $3.00 FOR ND/SMC STUDENTS, $5.00 GENERAL ADMISSION 
-~-~-----­
SPORTS 
page 36 
• VOLLEYBALL 

Irish travel to tourney 
Squad favored to win Mortar Board Premiere 
By MIKE DAY ranked No. 9 in the nation, the Notre Sports Writer Dame volleyball team is far from satis­
fied with their play up to this point in The constant pursuit of perfection. the season. Despit~ entering this weekend's "We need to work on closing teams 
matches with a 5-0 record and out in three games," said head coach Debbie Brown. "We have to work hard and keep the intensity level high for the entire match." 
The Irish will attempt to improve their record to 8-0 this weekend when they travel to West Lafayette 
• to take on North Carolina State, Oklahoma, and Purdue in the 1995 ·Mortar Board Purdue Premier. While none of the three matches be a cake walk, Notre Dame should return home 8-0 if they even come close to matching their level of play of the last three week­ends. 
North Carolina State should pro­vide the toughest challenge for the Irish. The Wolfpack enters Friday night's game with an 8-1 mark, though they have yet to play a match on the road. Junior outside hitter Pam Sumner leads the squad with 68 kills, while sopho­more outside hitter has recorded 125 digs in the team's nine match­
"We will have to be at our best 
beat them this weekend," said sophomore setter Carey May. "We can't let any game slip by, and we 
llliiiilliiiiiliiiiMiliiillillmust maintain our enthusiasm 
The Observer/Jake Peters ----------,--­
Jenny Birkner hopes to keep the Irish undefeated. see V-BALL I page 32 
• CROSS-COUNTRY 

Runners' -season to begin 
Preeminent Big East will provide challenge 
ByB.J.HOOD of the Irish runners are from the East Sports Writer coast, giving the runners a chance to go home. 
When the Irish cross country teams Piane thinks the team's experience is run this Saturday at Ohio State, another a strength. qne of N~tre. Dame's g_reat winning "We have five guys who have been to traditions will begin its season. 
Through the years, the men's team has produced one team national cham­pionship, two individual champions, and twenty all-Americans. The Irish have also appeared in the NCAA Championships each of the past five seasons. 
The Irish begin the 1995 campaign ranked fifteenth in the nation. This is also their first season in the Big East, the premier conference in the nation for distance running. 
Entering his twenty-first season as head coach, Joe Piane is excited about the move to the Big East. 
"I've been pushing for the Big East for ten years," Piane said. "If you look at the Big East sports, it's cross country and track. You can be fourth in the Big East and sixth in the country...they can't say that in other sports." 
• Villanova and Georgetown lead the very strong conference. Not only do the Irish runners look forward to competing The Observer/Jake Peters with these schools, but Piane said many Kristen Dudas looks to the NCMs. 

Football vs. Vanderbilt September 16, 1:30 EST  Women's Soccer vs. Michigan State September 15,7:30  •  Men's soccer travels to New Jersey see page 34  
Volleyball  vs. Stanford September 16, Noon  
at Mortar Board Premiere Sept. 15-16  
West Lafayette, Ind.  Cross Country  see page 28  
Men's Soccer  at Ohio State September 15  Chicago Bears look to bounce back  
at Rutgers Sept. 15/Seton Hall Sept. 17  
see page 22  

-------~~-~---~---------~­






