
Monday, March 6, 1995• Vol. XXVI No. 100 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Terminally ill teenager's ND wish comes true 
By EDWARD IMBUS family and friends when they A'sociate News Editor disembarked last Saturday at Michiana Hegional Airport, ac­Vinny Ferrari dreamed of cording to Neary. Prom his ini­going to Notre Dame. tial arrival, Ferrari has re­
That d r!Hllll, however, ceived red-carpet treatment. sPnmml dashnd when last year, Heagan Coyne of the number­a l'tr. r complaining of severe two ranked women's soccer lu~adaches, he was diagnosed team presented him with a with an inopnrable and debili­sweatshirt signed by all the tating brain tumor. lie was players of the team. After a placed in intensive care and brief rest and dinner, he visited given significant radiation Stanford Hall, where he was treatrnnnts, and just recently met by 11 varsity football and rnlnasfld. basketball athletes, including 
llis family and scoutmaster, football co-captain Hyan Leahy hownver, surprised the and quarterback Ron Powlus. Hodwster. N.Y.. high sehool Several Stanford residents then senior last week with a plane greeted him warmly, according ticket to South Bend and a to Neary, welcoming him to the rhancn to see the school of Our campus. l.ady this past weekend. Not to be outdone, a Keenan 
"lie's very lucky to have been Hall resident offered Ferrari a ablr. to come," said Father Pat ticket to the the final episode of Neary, thfl representative of the annual Bengal Bouts. Campus Ministry who assumed Ferrari's friends were con­t.he responsibility of showing cerned about his stamina in Fnrrari and his family around keeping up with the fast pace Notn~ Dame. "lie almost died of events. A time of half an a l'nw weeks ago" from a high hour was planned for the fight. 1'1wnr. The news ol' travelling Ferrari, however, surprised to Notre Dame, however, lifted them by staying for an hour Thomas Dooley, according to tinned twice at the liturgical overwhelmed," said Neary. his spirits. and a half instead, according to Neary. choir mass by its presider, Fa­"It's made him a bit shy, 
lie made it through, howev­friends, thoroughly enjoying He said they noted that ther Richard Warner, followed though he's normally very out­PI'. and is b~)ing shown Notre himself the whole time. "something's different about by lunch with University Presi­going. Dame in all its splendor. Even No trip to Notre Dame would Notre Dame students... that dent Father Edward Malloy, "If the sign of a Christian at the airport. be complete without a visit to spirituality at Notre Dame and ending with tours of the community is how it welcomes 
Approximately 20 members the Grotto. Ferrari and his plays a big role in (its stu­campus and Notre Dame Sta­a stranger, then Notre Dame is of the Notre Dame community, group visited after the Bouts, dents') lives." dium. the perfect example of a Chris­mostly associated with Campus and were especially moved by Sunday proved just as excit­"He's been a bit surprised by tian community, a community Ministry, greeted Ferrari and the plaque of a letter by Dr. ing for l'errari, who was men-all the attention, and a bi.t of caring people," he said. 

Panel: Service, prayer intertwined 
By KELLY MOORE 
Nt•ws Writer 
A three-part Campus Ministry sPI"ies on spirituality ended last night with a focus on how ser­vice and prayer go hand in hand. 
"Each night was a success, hut last night was speeial be­cause it brought people to­gnthnr to talk about something not often talked about on cam­pus," said Amy Dobbelaere, a student who helped plan the KPnping the Faith series. 
The discussion of service and praynr was led by a panel of five pnople, each who re11ected 11pon their own experienetls be­twnnn prayer -personal and rommunal -and the work for 
justice and peace. After the discussion, the panel invited those who attended to ask questions. 
The panel consisted of two Notre Dame students, Greg Behr and Katie Glynn; a mar­ried couple, Felicia Leon and Dan Driscoll; and Father Joseph Ross, rector of Morrisey llall. Although each member of the panel reflected upon differ­ent experiences, the separate messages each member con­veyed to the congregation were quite similar. Greg Behr's .statement echoed the panel's sentiments. 
"Service is the sharing of life," he said. Each member of this panel has shared his or her life with 
other people. Behr and Glynn both participated in summer service projects. Driscoll is a teacher, and Leon is the volun­teer director at the Center for the Homeless. Father Ross has dedicated his life to serving God and people through the priest­hood. 
But this message of the shar­ing of life was not focused on how much service a person does in his life. 
"Service is not for just one year or one afternoon a week. This type of service can lead to a fragmented life," Ross said . 
Glynn also reiterated this idea. 
"To live a life in service is to live a life routed in compassion and justice," she said. 
• RESiDENCE HAll ASSOCIATION 

Hooper ticket wins big against incumbent 

By AIMEE HEIMANN 
News Writer 
The ticket of Tara Hooper (president), Barbara VanDer­sarl (vice president). Laura Richter (secretary), and Cynthia Exconde (treasurer) won the Saint Mary's Residence Hall As­sociation elections last Friday. 
With 59.2% of the vote, they defeated the current president, Jennifer Cherubini, and her ticket of Amy Kramer (vice President), Emily Miller (secre­tary). and Kathy Pilcavage (treasurer). 
Hooper's ticket will officially take office next year, but Van­Dersarl said they have already started to implement some of their ideas. 
VanDersarl expressed the need for a lot of reorganization. 
"We plan to go over the rules and guidelines for our meet­ings, especially the guidelines for attendance and participa­tion. The meetings I attended in the past were only about fif­teen minutes long and I think we need more time than that to accomplish all of our goals," she said. 
Some major issues of their platl'orm include missed meal options, video libraries in each dorm with purchases of addi­tional VCHs, changing or elimi­nating the quotas for the hous­ing lottery, and purchasing cooking equipment and games for each dorm. 
Their platform also includes changing the dance arrival time to 11 pm, allowing escorted males in the tunnels, a charity rummage sale on the LeMans lawn, and Oktoberfest, which would include a bonfire and other activities. 
The ticket will also focus on developing brother and sister dorms with Notre Dame, con­tinuing work on recycling pro­grams and Alcohol Awareness Week, establishing e-mail ac­cess in each dorm to distribute the minutes from thn meetings, and extending Little Siblings weekend to include the under­privileged children of South Bend. 
"We have pieked realistic and achievabln goals for our plat­form, and we hope to achieve all of them within our term in office," said VanDersarl. "We are all biology majors, so we all think in a logical and systemat­ic manner." 
VanDersarl expressed some discontent with the voter turnout. "Although we won, under one-third of the student body voted. We wish more peo­ple would express their opin­ion." 
Although Cherubini's ticket lost, its members intend to keep active in the HilA. 
"We are obviously disap­pointed with our loss, but we wish them (the Hooper ticket) the best of luck and would be willing to help them. We plan on staying involved in HHA." said Pilcavage. 
You're the next contestant ... 
Participants tried their luck during Pangborn Hall's "The Price Is Right" on Saturday night. 
----~----· 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, Marc 2, 1995 
• INSIDE COlUMN 
It's tiiDe for resolution 
There's been enough Edward Imbus anger and divide witihin the Notre Dame family on Associate News Editor 
whether or not to recog­nize GLND/SMC. It saddens me deeply that the only two possible outcomes that people 
have considered have been full recognition of GLND/SMC or none. I would like to offer another possibility, one that hopefully, with or without refmement, can bring a satisfactory end to this issue for the campus. 
It has been argued thatthe University can­not recognize GLND/SMC because of the Church's teaching against homosexual acts; see Professor Rice's column on page 9. Notre Dame cannot be blamed for enforcing that belief here; adherence to the authority of the Church is intrinsic to Catholic institutions. GLNDISMC, in response, points to the Church's recognition of the need to support and love all people as Jesus would have. 
Father Tyson, the former vice president of Student Affairs, may have had an accidental stroke of genius when writing the first official decision, and it is one that should now be exploited. He wrote that "the Office of University Ministry and the University Counseling Center are the best resources to be of assistance to homosexual students." 
It can easily be interpreted that Father Tyson gave extreme and exclusive latitude to those two departments to address the needs of homosexual students on campus. 
To say there are no needs is to be deaf, blind, and quite insane. From vocabulary constantly used to demeaning jokes, from rumors to genocidal opinions, gays and les­bians at Notre Dame, or those wrongly thought to be, are subjected to hell, a telling tragedy Jesus would not have accepted. The director of the UCC saw the need, and in his professional judgment decided that a support group for gays and lesbians would be benefi­cial. So, it seems, he simply took advantage of the framework and organization already established in GLNDISMC and let them become the support group. 
Father Tyson's fmding created a middle ground, which should not be given up lightly. The University is reluctant to recognize GLND/SMC because of the difficulty in apply­ing Church doctrine, and recognition would make GLND eligible for activity funds, to which many students would object. But by giving the UCC the breadth to use GLNDISMC as a support group, the University met its responsibilities both to the Church and to its students. The middle ground must be brought back. 
Campus Ministry has bungled its charge by 
allowing allegations of breaking confidences 
to go ignored for a month, making the UCC all 
the more important. Trust in Campus 
Ministry is imperative to the University's pas­
toral mission. Campus Ministry has, however, 
in fact made a high brick wall for itself to 
climb before any outreach or support pro­
gram it creates has a chance of succeeding. 
Father Linton, I believe, of the CLC made 
another astute suggestion, that a task force on 
the needs of gays and lesbians be formed. 
The students want to be students, and want to 
trust questions of need to a concerned delega­
tion instead of reading about it day after day. 
The campus must be made whole again. 
With creativity and boldness, it can be done. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Production Brad Prendergast Dave Diaz Edward lmbus Tara Grieshop Sports Viewpoint Matt Casey Michael O'Hara Graphics Suzy Fry Tom Roland Lab Tech Accent Brandon Candura 

• WORlD AT A GLANCE 

In an emotional eulogy for a slain school principal, Vasser Arafat pledged Sunday to unfurl the Palestinian flag over Jerusalem. 
In graffiti sprayed on Gaza City's walls, the Islamic •extremist Hamas movement threat­ened to avenge the death of 40-year-old Osama al-Borno, shot Saturday near an Israeli roadblock under disputed circumstances. 
"Is this your peace, oh Arafat? The peace of oppression, jails and assassinations?" chanted Hamas militants 
Sales* 
who joined thousands of mourners marching through Gaza's 
1. "Man of the House" $9.2 
narrow streets. 
2. "The Brady Bunch" 5.9
Palestinian police and witnesses accused Israeli soldiers of shooting al-Borno at the Netzarim roadblock in the Gaza Strip as 
3. "Hideaway" 5.3 he was driving home with three friends from the Khan Younis area. 
4. "Just Cause" 4.9 
Palestinian Brig. Gen. Saeb al-Ajez told reporters the Israelis 
5. "Roommates" 4.0 
fired mistakenly at al-Borno "to cover the retreat of collabora­
6. "Forrest Gump" 2.1 
tors who had infiltrated into a Palestinian position." He admitted 
7. "Pulp Fiction" 2.08
Palestinian police also opened fire at the alleged infiltrators, but said he was certain they hadn't hit al-Borno's car. 
8. (tie) "Billy Madison" 1.9 
"I tell you that a pledge is a pledge ... to carry on the march 
8. (tie) "Legends of the Fall" 1.9
until one of our children hoists the Palestinian flag over Jerusalem, the fences of Jerusalem, the minarets of Jerusalem 
10. "Heavyweights" 1.7 
*In millions of

and churches of Jerusalem," Arafat told angry mourners. 

Russians, Chechens rule out talks 
GROZNY 
Russian forces captured a road linking two rebel-held villages Sunday, signalling an imminent ground assault on the south of breakaway Chechnya. The Chechen mili­tary commander, meanwhile, ruled out peace negotia­tions after Russian officers failed to appear for scheduled talks on Saturday. "I think we've probably had enough of peace talks," said Gen. Asian Maskhadov. Russian Interior Ministry troops dug in positions for five tanks and several armored personnel carriers on a six-mile stretch of road between the villages of Samashky and Achkhoy­Martan, west of the Chechen capital of Grozny. The new outpost effectively cuts off Samashky from other rebel­held areas. The Russian military command in Mozdok, outside Chechnya, said the road was captured after artillery and air strikes on rebel positions. It appeared to have been taken with no resistance. In Samashky, sur­prised and dazed rebel fighters said they had been attacked by helicopters around midday. Heavy explosions sounded several times a minute. The war began Dec. 11 when Russian troops invaded Chechnya to crush its 3­year-old independence drive. Human rights organizations estimate as many as 25,000 civilians have been killed. 
FBI agents role in shootout disputed 
WASHINGTON 
A sworn statement by a senior FBI official in an unre­leased Justice Department report contradicts acting deputy FBI director Larry Potts' account of his role in a deadly 1992 FBI shootout, according to a legal newspa­per. Eugene Glenn, the FBI's Salt Lake City chief and on­site commander during the standoff with white separatist Randy Weaver, swore to Justice investigators that Potts approved unusual orders that deadly force "could and should" be used against any armed men in the open. The weekly said it obtained a copy of the Justice report in­cluding Glenn's statement and Potts' denial that he approved those orders. FBI Director Louis Freeh an­nounced Jan. 6 his conclusion that Potts never approved the final rules of engagement and only heard by tele­phone of an earlier version that merely said deadly force "could" be used. FBI policy bars lethal force except in defense of oneself or others. A marshal and Weaver's 14­year-old son were killed during the siege, which began when federal marshals tried to arrest Weaver for failing to appear in court on weapons charges. 
Primaries to define Dole's next move 
WASHINGTON 
Sen. Bob Dole said Sunday he would consider stepping down from his post as Senate majority leader if early wins in Republican primaries next year make him the front-runner in the GOP presi­dential race. The candidate who can capture the presidential contests in . . 
i Iowa and New Hampshire is pr9bably 11,@!t going to win the nomination, Dole said. "If I lose those two states, I can be full-time majority leader. If I win those two states, then I think I'd take a hard look at stepping aside," he said. Dole was respond­ing to a statement made Saturday on CNN's "Evans and Novak" by Senate Majority Whip Trent Lott, R-Miss., that it would be difficult next year for Dole to lead the Senate and still run for the GOP presidential nomination. Dole said he expected the outcome of the presidential race to be decided fairly quickly once the primary season begins in the spring of 1996. Former Tennessee Gov. Lamar Alexander, also appearing on CBS and expected to run, said Dole should remain as majority leader. 
Mexicans suspect conspiracy in killing 
MEXICO CITY 
The political drama unfolding in Mexico is the story of two powerful families long connected by friendship, mar­riage and partisan interests. Former President Carlos Salinas and his brother Raul, and former federal prose­cutor Mario Ruiz Massieu -now being held in New Jersey by U.S. officials-play key roles in a murder mys­tery swirling around Ruiz Massieu's assassinated brother, allegedly killed on Raul Salinas' orders. In the latest twist, Mexican news media reported Sunday that the gov­ernment on Monday will request Ruiz Massieu's extradi­tion back to Mexico to be tried on charges of altering de­positions to protect Raul Salinas. "This is turning into a novel about power -full of suspense with improbable turns," said Homero Aridjis, a writer and political activist. "If this story was written by a novelist, some would doubt its believability." Jose Francisco Ruiz Massieu, the No. 2 man in the ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party, was shot to death in September as he left a Mexico City restaurant. 

• NATIONAL WEATHER 
The Accu-Weather<~~> forecast for noon, Monday, March 6. 
Unes separate high temperature zones for the day. 
308 

... ........,.....,. 0 
FRONTS: 
............... ...a..&.. ............... 
COLD WARM STAnDNARY 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-S10RMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Krista Nannery 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday C'X<'r-pr during exam and vacation p~riods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Atlanta  57 46  Dallas  71  53  New Orleans  76  60  
Baltimore  56 41  Denver  37 26  New York  49 38  
Boston  46 33  Los Angeles  67  56  Philadelphia  50  42  
Chicago  38 31  Miami  81  70  Phoenix  72 56  
Columbus  58 44  Minneapolis  26 20  Pittsburgh  54 43  


--~---~-­
Monday, March 6, 1995 The Observer· WASHINGTON NEWS page 3 
Congressman: GOP sensitive to gays Hatfield offered to 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Congress' new Republican leadership is sensitive to prob­lems of gays and lesbians, a homosexual Congressman as­serted Sunday. 
The Contract for America that helped Republicans win control of Congress in the 1994 election stressed trimming the size of government, and "it's essential now that you realize that anti­government does not mean anti-gay," said Rep. Steve Gun­dt~rson, H-Wis. 
Gunderson gave that message to the lluman Bights Campaign Fund. a major gay and lesbian organization, at the start of its two-day annual Washington lobbying session. 
llouse Speaker Newt Gin­grich, H-Ga., "is very close to what I said about being anti­government not being anti­gay," Gunderson told reporters later. "We have to find a way to balance the budget without be­ing seen as a mean and insensi­tive party" on social issues. 
lie said he talks with Gingrich oftnn, and "as one of the lead­ing moderate Hepublicans in thn llouse, I am often given the 




The 0 bserver 
The Saint Mary's Department is looking for: 
SMC Accent Editor 
SMC News Editor 
SMC Sports Editor 
Asst. SMC Editor 
SMC Photo Editor 
SMC Day Editors 
Are you an enthusiastic, committed woman, who is interested in any ofthese positions? Please submit a one page letter ofintent to Patti Carson by Mon., March 6. Questions? Call Patti @284-4310 or 631-4540 


TRAVEL EMERGENCY KIT 
WESTERN/ PHONEUNION /CARD'" 
Buy the easy to use Western Union Phone Card, a pre-paid calling card. 
Available at 

Serving You Comes First 
assignment of going to tradi­tionally Democrat organizations ... seeking conversation and dialogue about how we can meet the mission of your par­ticular program within the con­text of a seven-year path to a balanced budget." 
The 43-year-old lawmaker won a half-minute standing ovation when he dramatically introduced himself to the con­ference of 300 activists from across the country. 
"I happen to be chairman of the livestock, dairy and poultry subcommittee, which may not be important to all of you but happens to be very important to my constituency" in Wisconsin, he said. "On the other hand, I happen to be gay which may be very important to you, but which means nothing and shouldn't be important to any­body else outside of this room." 
At lunch, Gunderson sat near Candace Gingrich, 28-year-old half-sister of the House speak­er, an acknowledged lesbian who lives in Harrisburg, Pa. Ms. Gingrich, here for the lobbying session, said she'll visit the speaker if he's in his office when she's at the Capitol Monday. 
They have cordial "family atmosphere" relations, she said, and though a Pittsburgh Steeler fan, she's accepted Washington Redskins football tickets from him. The speaker is probably a target of Georgia HRCF lobbyists, so they won't necessarily talk politics, she said. 
Current major concerns of the gay and lesbian community are discrimination in the work­place, including the military, and maintaining funding to fight AIDS. 
"We don't seek special treat­ment," Ms. Gingrich said. 
However, people ought to realize that gays and lesbians are everywhere, and "are being discriminated against every day.... We're brothers and sis­ters, librarians, the people who work at gas stations, and so on" said Ms. Gingrich, who works with computers. 
Gunderson said House Re­publican leaders have assured him that most AIDS programs would be reauthorized in the coming year, especially $13 million for the Ryan White CARE Act. 
A $100 million emergency housing program, partly for people with AIDS remains un­restored but Gunderson said "this is not an anti-gay or anti­AIDS position ... it has much more to do with concern about inefficiency involved in federal housing programs than gays' housing in particular." 

PERSONAL ASSISTANT 
PRESIDENT OF GROWING COMPANY SEEKING AN ENERGETIC, CHRISTIAN INDNIDVAL FOR FULL TIME POSITION OF PERSONAL ASSISTANT. INDNIDVAL SHOULD HAVE DEGREE OR EQVNALENT EXPERIENCE IN THE FOLLOWING AREAS: 
*LIBRARY SCIENCE *PHYSICAL FITNESS *VEGETARIAN COOKING 
SALARY IS NEGOTIABLE. PLEASE SEND YOUR RESUME TO 
D.W. WALLCOVERING 514 W. MILL STREET (18TH RD.) 
CULVER, INDIANA 46511 ATT: CHRISTINA BALABAN 
resign before vote 
Oregon senator may face wrath ofcolleagues 
By JIM ABRAMS Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Republican Sen. Mark Hat­field, whose solitary defiance of his own party helped bring down the balanced budget amendment last week, offered to resign before the vote, Ma­jority Leader Bob Dole said Sunday. 
Dole, R-Kan., speaking on CBS' "Face the Nation," also said President Clinton used the balanced budget debate to dis­credit Dole, a potential rival in next year's presidential cam­paign. 
"The president and the Democratic leadership in the Senate decided this might be a pretty good shot at Bob Dole, because the leaders who voted for this last year voted against it this year, with President Clin­ton's blessing at least." 
Hatfield joined 33 Democrats last week in sending the bal­anced budget amendment, which needed a two-thirds ma­jority, to a one-vote defeat. 
Hatfield, Dole said, "made a mistake, he's part of the lead­ership." Dole said he told the Oregon senator before the vote that his opposition was a reflec­tion on Republicans and their leader, Dole. 
Hatfield responded by offer­ing to resign from the Senate, giving amendment supporters 66 of 99 votes, the two-thirds majority. "That's not an option, Mark," Dole said he replied. 
But Dole added that by keep­ing his job, Hatfield, the chair­man of the Senate Appropria­tions Committee, faces possible recriminations from his fellow Republicans. 
Hatfield confirmed Dole's ac­count about the resignation of­fer in a statement issued later Sunday. 
"I made this otTer our of loy­alty to my party and out of loy­alty to my leader," said Hat­field. "I was disturbed that some were using my vote to question his leadership. Sen. Dole declined my resignation and I proceeded to vote on the merits of the amendment as I saw them." 
He added: "It is my intention to lead the Senate Appropria­tions Committee in taking the steps necessary to reduce the deficit immediately.... We all need to work together to muster the political courage to make some very difficult deci­sions in the months and years ahead." 
Sen. Majority Whip Trent Lott, H-Miss., blasted Hatfield on Saturday, saying it "exhibit­ed an awful lot of arrogance for him to reject the feelings of his own constituency, his own leg­islative leaders, his colleagues in the Senate and his leader­ship, including Bob Dole." 
Dole said GOP senators are drafting a letter concerning Hatfield's defection. There's a lot of frustration, and new members in particular "feel that this ought to be exam­ined," Dole said. 
Dole praised Hatfield for his support on most issues and said, ''I'm not certain you sin­gle out somebody" for a single vote. Asked if Hatfield should step down as Appropriations chairman, Dole said, "I haven't made that judgment." 
Hartfield's fellow Oregon Re­publican senator, Bob Pack­wood, told reporters in Oregon that "nothing is going to hap­pen to Mark. He will remain as appropriations chairman. Could someone call for his removal? Yes. Will that happen? No, it will not, and it should not." 

Hosted byRick Steves, author of 

Europe Through The Badcdoor 
andnostof 
Traw:ls In Europe with Rick Steves
..: 


Tues., March 7th 
Shmfon Hotel and Towers Ballroom 
301 E. North Water St. .~ 7:00-9:30 pm 
Admission $2.00 R.S.V.P. 312-951-0585 Sponsored by Council Travel 1153 N. Dearban, 2nd Floor, Chicago, IL 60610 
--~----------------------------------­
page 4 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Monday, March 6, 1995 
Rights leaders retrace 

'Bloody Sunday' march 
By PAUL NEWBERRY Associated Press 

SELMA, Ala. 
Led by four black members of Congress. about 2.000 marchers retraced a historic path across a bridge to mark the 30th anniversary of the "Bloody Sunday" voting rights march. 
The marchers included Coretta Scott King, Martin Luther King liJ and Rep. John Lewis, who was beaten bloody by troopers during the first march. 
Earlier. two of the men who led the original march received keys to the city from the mayor -then a segrega~ tionist, now an ally of blacks. 
On March 7, 1965, white lawmen beat and gassed hun~ dreds of marchers trying to cross Edmund Pettus Bridge. Footage of the beatings ran on national television, sparking outrage and leading to pas~ sage of the landmark Voting Rights Act, which outlawed lit· eracy tests in many Soum.f}rn 
states. · · 

Two weeks later. Martin Luther King Jr. led an even bigger march all the way to the steps of the state Capitol in Montgomery. 
On Sunday. a cold rain. fell on marchers gathering ol1t7 side the National Voting Rights Institute to walk once again across the bridge named for a Confederate gen~ eral. The group also planned to make the 54-mile journey to Montgomery for a rally on Saturday; about 100 ofthem will walk. 
"It's gratifying to see all the changes that have occurred and to see the number of black registered voters and black elected officials in the state of Alabama," said Lewis. 
a Georgia Democrat. Still, there was little sense that the battle has been won. 
"Once again we're having to fight for our voting rights,'' said the Rev. Joseph Lowery, president of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, blasting courts that have struck down majori~ ty black congressional dis­tricts. 
"The courts are invalidating congressional districts ostensibly because of the shape of the district, but it's really the shade of the repre­sentative they're concerned about." Lowery said. 
Lowery, Lewis, Jesse Jackson and. Rep. Cynthia McKinney. D·Ga., joined in ceremonies at the Brown Chapel AME Church, where the first march also began. McKinney's district is one of those being challenged. 
Jackson did not march. The others did, including Reps, Earl I:Iilliard. J)"Na., and Eva Clayton,D·N.(:.;:: · · 
As the mjU'<;hers. passed through downtown, Lewis chatted with a couple of police escorts. 
"Those young men who were here 30 years ago, they were acting on orders;" Lewis said. ••vo:u didt1't have any blacks on the st~:tte troopers in 1965. To see this integrated force here assisting in guard­ing us, that's gratifying." 
Lewis and another leader of the original march, Hosea Williams, received keys to the city fromJoe..Smitherman, Selma's white ,l>egregationist mayor in J 965; He now says he was wrong and continues to hold the top government job in a city with a black majority. 
Smitherman said the foes 
today are in Washington. 


PRINCETON = We are. REVIEW 

800/865.,7737 The Answer To Standardized Tests 
SPRING 30 days un,,(imited tanning 
Area's Newest & Friendliest Salon 


Internet gives shuttle access 
By MARCIA DUNN Associated Press 
CAPE CANAVERAL It was bound to happen: Cy­berspace meets outer space. 
For the first time, NASA is providing public computer ac­cess to virtually all aspects of a space shuttle flight via the In­ternet, including occasional ex­changes with Endeavour's seven astronauts and contnuous updates on their astronomical observations. 
Computer users can even "Come Aboard," and receive pictures and audio tapes of the crew. 
It's causing a cyberspace stampede. 
More than 350,000 requests for mission information have poured in since Endeavour blasted off Thursday. 
A sampling of computer mes­sages from people logging on around the world: 
"One small step for NASA, one giant step for the 'Net.' " "Absolutely amazing, beam me up!" "This was great, I didn't even get airsick." "Godspeed Endeavour! I al­ways wanted to say that." 
Becky Bray, a payload activity controller at Marshall Space Flight Center in Huntsville, Ala., is leading the "Welcome to Astro-2" effort. Astro is the Na­tional Aeronautics and Space Administration's name for the three ultraviolet telescopes aboard Endeavour; this is their second space flight. 
"We're pretty out there in the realm of my wildest dreams," Bray said Sunday. 
An engineer in Bray's soft­ware branch tapped into the Internet at work last summer, about the time NASA's public affairs office went on-line with news releases. 
The next thing Bray knew she was organizing NASA's first on­line shuttle mission. 
NASA scientist Robert Stach­nik calls it "a virtual reality tour of the shuttle." 
"It's an opportunity to share our excitement in this explo­ration," he said. 
Among the information avail­able on the World Wide Web: Endeavour's exact location over Earth, stellar observations by the Astro telescopes and sky charts, crew and ground con­trol team photographs, snap­shots of the cockpit, taped con­versations from four of the as­tronauts, even NASA-TV broad­casts of the mission that appear in a one-inch square. 
About the only thing missing is a live view out the shuttle windows. 
"The technology is there," Bray said. "We'd like to do that, but it's always the dollar sign." 
As always. the astronauts' medical conferences and family conversations are private. In addition, the astronomers in­volved in the 15 1/2-day mission are reluctant to send out their ultraviolet measurements of stars, galaxies and quasars. 
"It's an open book other than that," Bray said. Questions from computer users, many of them young­
sters, range from astronaut pay and stellar discoveries to provi­sions for a shuttle search and rescue operation "if the need, heaven forbid, arises." 
Each inquiry is directed to a ground controller or scientist who responds by computer. Bray periodically sends up a question for the astronauts to answer. 
There have been complaints. One woman in Florida griped about the deaths of a great horned owl and three hatch­lings at the launch pad when Endeavour lifted off. Another questioned whether all this money might be better spent on food for the poor. 
Bray prefers to dwell on the positive majority. 
She's already preparing for the next on-line shuttle flight in September. 
"It almost brings tears to my eyes experiencing the excite­ment," she said. "It's wonderful to know they're out there and they support us." 
Note: Internet users can ac­cess "Welcome to Astro-2" on the World Wide Web by typing: "http:/aastro-2.msfc.nasa.gov" or "http:(slash,slash)astro­2.msfc.nasa.gov" 
:~~::~.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
~ f\1 CHEERLEADER & 
~ l...ii~-~

__ LEPRECHAUN 
Tryout Information Meeting 
All serious candidates must attend this meeting! 
6:00P.M. • MARCH 7, 1995 JACC Football Auditorium For more information, call 631-8103 






ATTENTION 
MELROSE FANS! 
The Senior Week '95 Committee is looking for videotapes of Melrose Place episodes. A huge reward will be given to the one who can supply us with these classic tapes. 
Please call Katie Dunn at 
287-7383 
or Matt Bosse at 

232-6569 
Monday, March 6, 1995 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 5 
Rwandan governor killed 
By CHEGE MBITIRU 
A«ociated Press 
NAIHOBI, Kenya 

The governor of Hwanda's southern province of Butare was assassinated in an ambush, the prime minister said Sunday. lie blamed soldiers of the d1~1'eated Hutu-led government living in neighboring Zaire. 
Pierre-Claver Hwangabo was shot Saturday night near the town of Butare, the provincial l'apilal near the border with Burundi, Prime Minister Faustin Twagiramungu said by tl'lephone from Hwanda's capi­tal, Kigali. 
llwangabo's son and driver also were killed, Hwandan radio reported. 
The prime minister said the killing of' Hwangaho. a moder­ate llutu, is believed to have been carried out by soldiers of the defeated llutu-led govern­ment who have sought refuge in Zaire. An tlstimated 30,000 former soldiers and 10,000 al­liPd militiamen are among some 1 million Hwandan rnl'ugees in the camps. 
But a U.S. human rights group official said extremist Tutsis were more likely sus­pnets. They had accused the governor of being too soft on I tutus aecused in the massacres 11f a estimated 500,000 people, mostly Tutsis, from April to .June last year. 
After defeating the llutu-led government last year, Tutsi-led rPhels formed a government that includes moderate llutus, 
such as Twagiramungu and Hwangabo. 
Rwandan radio said the gov­ernor was returning home from Kigali when the assailants stopped his car by blocking the road with a tree. More than five gunmen in civilian clothes opened fire. 
The broadcast, monitored by the British Broadcasting Corp., said his driver and son also were killed in the ambush, and Rwangabo's bodyguard, who returned fire, was seriously wounded. 
"We believe he was killed by infiltrators from Zaire," Twagi­ramungu said, referring to for­mer army soldiers and mili­tiamen who fled to refugee camps in Zaire after being de­feated by the Tutsi-Jed rebel Rwandan Patriotic Front. 
But Allison Desforges of Hu­man Rights Watch, who re­turned from Rwanda 10 days ago to her home in Buffalo, N.Y., said it seemed unlikely that refugees in Zaire would be able to penetrate into that re­gion without being appre­hended by the Rwandan army. 
The region is highly popu­lated and 40 to 50 miles from the Zaire border, she said. 
Hwangabo, who supported freeing a priest suspected of genocide, was accused recently in the press of being too friend­ly to those who carried out the massacres, said Desforges. 
"It's possible that people who held that opinion within Rwanda assassinated him," she said in a telephone interview. 
UN amasses support to keep Iraqi sanctions
40 miles ,.--t--r'"---• 
~ ', 
'


BURUNDI 


AP/Carl Fox 

"It's possible that it was an extremist Tutsi element." 
She said moderates were un­der attack from extremists on both sides. 
Vice President and Defense Minister Paul Kagame, the commander of the rebel mili­tary victory, arrived in Butare on Sunday to lead investiga­tions, the radio said. 
"Let us remember that this despicable act comes at a time when there is talk of the arrest of ... elements of the former army who were involved in mis­sions to destabilize the coun­try," the broadcast quoted Kagame as said. 
Rwandan troops have stepped up security to prevent incur­sions by Hutu extremists from refugee camps in eastern Zaire. 
By LOUIS MEIXLER 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS 

Satellite pictures of a rebuilt chemical weapons plant and lavish palaces helped the United States amass support to maintain U.N. sanctions against Iraq, a U.S. official said Sunday. 
After lobbying the leaders of nine Security Council members for a week, U.S. Ambassador Madeleine Albright said she has commitments from enough countries to defeat any pro­posed resolution to ease the economic sanctions. 
The United States has the backing "to sustain sanctions on Iraq until they comply with all the relevant Security Council resolutions," said Albright's spokesman, James Hubin. 
The Security Council plans to review the sanctions in a meet­ing March 13. 
Russia and France, Iraq's leading trading partners before the Gulf War, favor easing sanctions that bar Iraq from exporting oil as soon as it fully cooperates with U.N. weapons monitors. 
A crucial report on Iraqi com­pliance is expected in mid­April. 
The United States says Bagh­dad must also respect human rights, return prisoners from its 1990 invasion of Kuwait and show it can be trusted. 
Resolutions require nine 
any such move. Albright also spoke with the leaders of Ger­many, Argentina, Botswana and Rwanda. 
Rubin said the nine council members expressed concern about Iraq's capability to re­build weapons, its spending on lavish palaces and its moves to incorporate Kuwaiti equipment into the Iraqi army. 
Last week, the White House threatened to veto any Security Council move to lift or ease the sanctions. 
Satellite photographs Albright presented to the council mem­bers showed Iraq has rebuilt at least one chemical weapons plant and was beefing up its armed forces, a U.S. official said, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
The official said the chemical weapons plant could become operational if U.N. weapons in­spectors left the country. 
Iraq also has incorporated Kuwaiti missiles and hundreds of Kuwaiti armored personnel carriers into its elite al-Nida Hepublican Guard unit, the of­ficial said. 
The official said Iraq has spent $1.5 billion to $2 billion to rebuild 17 palaces or retreats for Iraqi leaders and has 48 other such retreats under construction . 
Iraq has urged council mem­bers to lift the sanctions, saying its people are suffering under the embargo. 

votes to pass in the 15-member But Rubin said the palaces council, and Albright's trip to show the Iraqi ruling class
Celebrate a friend's birthday with 
Britain, Italy, Oman, Honduras "can't claim poverty ... when it and the Czech Hepublic was de­comes to feeding and dothing signed to build support to block their people." 
a special Observer ad. 



SIGN THE SAFE SPRING BREAK PLEDGE 

Monday, March 6, 1995

page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
An Open Letter In Response to the Campus Life Council Resolution Calling for Recognition of GLND/SMC 
A. Introduction 

A 
s you may know, the Campus Life Council (CLC) passed a resolution at its February 20th meeting that calls upon the Office of Student Affairs to grant full recognition to Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame/ Saint Mary's College (GLND/SMC). I received the resolution from David Hungeling, student body president and chair of the CLC, on February 22nd. The bylaws of the CLC require that I publicly respond to resolutions of the CLC within seven days of receipt. David Hungeling graciously agreed to extend my time to respond until March 6th so that I could have a few extra days to consult on this matter. 
I would like to open this response by attempting to place discussion of recognition of GLND/SMC within a wider frame­work. I will then address the question of recognition directly. After describing our current outreach to gay and lesbian students, I will close with a discussion of how we hope to expand our efforts in the future. 
There has been much discussion during the past month 
on campus and in the campus press regarding the issue of 
granting official University recognition to GLND/SMC. Frequently 
this discussion has proceeded along polarized lines that treat 
the discrete question of granting recognition to GLND/SMC as 
absolutely synonymous with much broader issues regarding 
the dignity and value of our gay and lesbian students. Cast in 
these terms, the decision of the Office of Student Affairs to deny 
recognition to GLND/SMC is sometimes equated with a desire 
on our part to disavow our gay and lesbian students as integral 
and valued members of the Notre Dame community. I want to 
state as strongly as possible that nothing could be further from 
our intent. 

Thus, I welcome the opportunity to respond publicly to the recent CLC resolution. I hope that by placing discussion of the recognition issue within a wider context, I will be able to clarify the decision of the Office of Student Affairs in a way that will stop the damage and pain to our community that results from equating our position on the recognition issue with preju­dicial stereotypes and bigotry that we abhor. 
The wider context of which I speak is the University's 
genuine desire to acknowledge and affirm the presence of the 
gay and lesbian students in our midst. We value our gay and 
lesbian students, as we value all students who are members of 
this community. We want the University to be a safe and inclu­
sive environment in which every student can pursue the educa­
tional endeavor to which we are committed-free from harass­
ment of any kind. As with all our students, we want to meet the 
needs of our gay and lesbian studenl<>. We seek to do so 
through appropriate channels-channels that we believe are 
best equipped to address the issues with which gay and lesbian 
studenl'i deal and channels that allow us to balance our desire 
to support our gay and lesbian students with our responsibility 
to remain faithful to the teachings of the Catholic Church. 
We have a long-standing dispute with GLND/SMC regard­
ing whether granting official University recognition to this 
organization is an appropriate means of meeting the needs of 
our gay and lesbian student<> in a manner consonant with our 
responsibility to be faithful to Church teaching. We do not 
believe that recognition of GLND/SMC is an appropriate means 
to this end. 

The recognition issue, however, is just this-a dispute 
about the appropriate means to an agreed-upon end. There is 
no dispute as to our desire-indeed, our obligation-as a 
community of scholars and a community professing Christian 
values-to build an inclusive environment in which every mem­
ber feels welcome and prized. Our refusal to grant recognition 
to GLND/SMC is not an attempt to ignore, deny or denigrate the presence of our gay and lesbian student<> and their value to this community. 
B. The Recognition Question 
W 
ith this as a premise, let me turn my attention to the specific resolution of the Campus Life 
Council-a call to grant official University 
recognition to GLND/SMC. Let me begin in this regard by stating that in the area of student life, Notre Dame is different from many other universities in our articulated behav­ioral expectations of students. In particular, as you know, Notre Dame has an explicit policy that expresses our belief that a genuine and complete expression of love through sexual union requires a commitment to a total living and sharing together of a man and woman in marriage. This policy calls upon all our students to reserve sexual union for marriage. 
Consistent with the moral teachings of the Catholic Church, Notre Dame explicitly calls all students-whatever their sexual orientation-to chastity. Chastity requires those who are single to refrain from sexual union. We recognize that this is a difficult call. It is a call for which there is sometimes little societal reinforcement in the media or elsewhere. But it is the clear call of the Gospels with respect to our sexual mores, and it is the ideal for which we strive. 
What we ask of our studenl'i as individuals in this regard, 
we also ask philosophically and conceptually of student 
organizations that seek official University recognition. Thus, 
duLac requires that to receive University recognition, a group's 
purpose must be consistent with the mission of the University 
and the moral teachings of the Catholic Church. Under the 
provisions of duLac, only recognized groups enjoy the privi­
leges of using campus facilities, receiving University funds and 
sponsoring activities. 
It is against this backdrop that the Office of Student Affairs 
has twice considered request<> from GLND/SMC for University 
recognition-first in 1986, when recognition was denied by my 
predecessor, Father David Tyson, C.S.C.; and again in Spring 
1992, when I denied an appeal by GLND/SMC from a decision 
of the Office of Student Activities refusing recognition. 
In the 1992 request for recognition, GLND/SMC submitted 
a constitution, together with approximately ten pages of com­
mentary, arguing the group's case for recognition. Specifically, 
the group submitted a seven-page letter at the time of filing the 
application for recognition with the Office of Student Activities 
and another three-page letter in connection with the appeal to 
my office. At the February 20th meeting of the Campus Life 
Council, GLND/SMC distributed the three-page letter, together 
with some additional correspondence, to CLC members for 
review. The seven-page letter was not included in the material 
distributed to the CLC. 
In these 1992 application materials, GLND/SMC addressed the issue of homosexual behavior. Taken as a whole, the appli­cation materials were cast in a framework that expressed a value-neutral approach toward a variety of ways in which gays and lesbians may live out their orientation. At another point in the application materials, GLND/SMC stated its belief that Notre Dame has a unique opportunity to influence young gays and lesbians by steering them in the direction of stable, monoga­mous relationships. Neither of these approaches, however, is consistent with official Church teaching. 
It should be noted that GLND/SMC's 1992 application 
materials were consistent in this regard with prior correspon­
dence and conversations between co-chairs of the organization 
and the Office of Student Affairs. At various times over the years, 
Monday, March 6, 1995 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 7 
previous co-chairs have expressed dissent from the 
teaching of the Church. 

II is for this reason, based both upon it'> 
application materials and history, that the Office of 
Student Affairs denied recognition to GLND/SMC. 
As an unrecognized group, GLND/SMC may not use 
campus facilities, receive University funds or spon­
sor activities. The decision communicated by Stu­
dent Affairs to GLND/SMC regarding it'> regular and 
publicized usc of a room in the Counseling Center 
for peer support group meetings was an application 
of this principle. 

At the February 20th meeting of the Campus 
Life Council, several undergraduate members of the 
Council asked a number of questions regarding 
whether new papers from GLND/SMC, reorganiza­
tion of GLND/SMC or formation of some new stu­
dent organization might result in a favorable recog­
nition decision. As I indicated at the meeting, I find 
it difficult to answer recognition questions in the 
abstract. At the same time, I stated that it would be 
disingenuous of me to hide behind this answer 
because to do so might create false expectations. 
I do not believe that such organizational effort., 
would result in a favorable decision regarding 
recognition. The existence of GLND/SMC for more 
than ten years with a consistent pattern of philo­
sophical dissent from Church teaching makes our 
particular institutional milieu different from some 
other Catholic universities that have addressed rec­
ognition issues in this area. 

Admittedly, our policy of tying official recogni­
tion standards for student groups to consistency 
with Church teaching makes Notre Dame different 
from state universities and many private universities. 
II is important to note, however, that there is ample 
room in other areas within the University-speak­
ers, conferences, ~;ymposia and classes-for debate 
of Church teaching. 

C. Existing Outreach to Gay tmd Lesbian Students and a Recent Initiative 
L 
ct me begin to bring this response to a close on the same note with which I began. Although the Office of Student Affairs docs not believe that recognition of GLND/SMC is appropriate, we have a sincere desire to affirm the presence of those students in our midst who arc gay and lesbian and to meet their needs through appropriate channels. We frequently cite the services available to in.dividual students through the Counseling Center, the Office of Campus Ministry and hall staff as valuable resources in this regard. In stating this, we do not intend any negative infer­ences regarding the mental health or the committed nature of the faith lives of our gay and lesbian stu­dcnt'>-anymorc than we intend such inferences as to the many heterosexual student'> whom we direct to these same channels. Rather, we see these mem­bers of the Office of Student Affairs as people with the expertise to help our student'> deal with issues related to psychosexual development, personal integration of sexuality and the many other matters that can touch on these processes. 
At the same time, a number of members of the University community have voiced their concern that Student Affairs needs to do more than make services available to individual student'>-that there must be some way that Student Affairs can sponsor and provide facilitators for a forum in which gay and lesbian students can come together as a group to 
discuss issues that relate to their lives in a setting 
that is respectful of Church teaching. 
With this in mind, after extensive discussion 
as a staff, the omce of Campus Ministry submitted a 
proposal to Student Affairs this past September. 
Campus Ministry's proposal outlined a new initiative 
to extend their existing services to undergraduate 
students who arc gay or lesbian, or who are uncer­
tain about their sexual orientation, beyond indi­
vidual settings to a new group endeavor facilitated 
by the staff of Campus Ministry. Student Affairs 
approved this proposal and submitted it to the 
Offjccrs of the University for final review. The omc­, crs' Group approved this proposal in October. 
Since that time Campus Ministry has been 
engaged in effort., to begin this group. Campus 
Ministry met in small settings with the rectors of our 
undergraduate residence halls to explain and seek 
support for this new initiative, as well as to make 
the availability of the group known. Campus Minis­
try chose not to publicize these effort'> because the 
staff believed that at least at the out.,et a more 
discreet approach would reinforce the confidential 
nature of the group. Although this program is in 
its early stages, I have great hopes that Campus 
Ministry's new initiative may provide a University­
sponsored forum in which gay and lesbian students 
can come together as a group to explore common 
issues and find mutual support. 
D. Planningfor the Future 
F 
or the reasons outlined earlier, I am not approving the CLC resolution calling for recognition of GLND/SMC. I do, however, 
want to thank the members of the Campus 
Life Council for the free-flowing discussion at the 
February 20th meeting. I found the questions posed 
and the dialogue that ensued to be marked by 
honesty, candor, and, most importantly, by a genu­
ine desire to create a more supportive and inclusive 
environment for our gay and lesbian student'>. 
I want to assure you that this desire is fully shared. 
I have spent many hours since the CLC meet­
ing reflecting on all that was said. I opened this 
response by alluding to my concerns about the 
polarization and negativity that has surrounded the 
recent debate over recognition of GLND/SMC. 
I believe, however, that the recent debate can also 
be transformed into a positive opportunity. The 
energy focused on the recognition question can 
serve to renew us with respect to the broader ques­
tion of how-apart from recognition of GLND/SMC 
or another sh1dcnt group--we can enhance our 
effort'> to meet the needs of our gay and lesbian 
students. 

As to this broader question, I believe that I have acted too slowly and presumed too much about the adequacy of our efforts in prior years. If Student Affairs docs not believe that recognition of GLND/SMC or another student organization is the appropriate means to the agreed-upon end of build­ing a supportive environment for our gay and lesbian student'i, then it is Student Affairs' responsi­bility to develop meaningful alternatives beyond the services offered to individual studcnt'i that we currently provide through Counseling Center, Cam­pus Ministry and hall staff. 
Toward this end, I have appointed an ad hoc committee to advise me on how, apart from recogni­tion of GLND/SMC or another student organization, we can do a better job of meeting the needs of our gay and lesbian students. The following members of 
the University community have agreed to serve: 
Sister )oris Binder, O.P. 
Rector ofPasquerilla East 
Member ofthe Campus Life Council 
Rev. David Burrell, C.S.C. 
Hesburgh Professor ofTheology and Philosophy 
Rev. Robert Dowd, C.S.C. 
Assistant Director ofCampus Ministry 
Ms. Ann Firth 

Assistant to the Vice President for Student Affairs 
Rev. Terence Linton, C.S.C. 
Rector ofGrace Hall 

Member ofthe Campus Lifo Council 
Professor Maura Ryan 

Assistant Professor ofTheology 
Dr. Susan Stcibe-Pasalich 
Assistant Director ofthe 
University Counseling Center 
Dr. Patrick Utz 

Director ofthe University Counseling Center 
Rev. Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. 
Director ofCampus Ministry 
I intend to ask jonathan Patrick and Dennis 
McCarthy, the incoming undergraduate student body 
president and vice president, to join the committee, 
together with two gay or lesbian students whom I 
will appoint. The committee will be chaired by my 
assistant, Ann Firth. The committee will be free to 
solicit and accept input on the matters within it<> 
charge from any interested member of the Univer­
sity community. 

I will ask the committee to advise me on the 
following questions: 

(i) 
How can the University, through Student Affairs, sponsor a facilitated setting respectful of Church teaching in which gay and lesbian studenl'> can come together as a group to explore common issues and find mutual support? 

(ii) 
What types of programs should Student Affairs sponsor for rectors, hall staff and other Stu­dent Affairs professionals to better equip them to meet the needs of our gay and lesbian student'>? 


(iii) What additional mea.<;urcs should Student Affairs take to promote an environment free of harassment ba..,ed on sexual orientation? 
The committee will submit a preliminary writ­ten report on May 1, 1995, summarizing the status of its conversations. The committee will submit a final report by October 23, 1995, if at all possible, but in no event later than December 6, 1995. 
I realize that the rationales that I have advanced in this response will not be satisfactory to all members of the University community. I hope, however, that we can move beyond the painful polemics that have characterized the discussion in recent weeks. I a.'ik you to join me in our continu­ing effort'> to build a community in which each of us can realize our God-given potential-a community that is faithful to Gospel values which call us to chastity in a society that frequently settles for less, and a community that is faithful to the inclusive call of the Gospel both to see Christ in each other and be Christ to each other. 
Professor Patricia A. O'Hara 
March 6, 1995 

page 8 The Observer • THE BARINGS COLLAPSE Monday, March 6, 1995 
Evidence that bank knew risks grows 
By EDITH LEDERER 
Associated Press 
LONDON 

Barings may have violated Britain's banking rules when it transferred $1.3 billion to back a Singapore trader's financial gambles in the weeks before the bank's crash. two British newspapers reported Sunday. 
There is also growing evi­dr,nce that Barings knew about trader Nick Leeson's risky .deal­ings, ignored warnings of a pos­sible disaster and may have misled the Bank of England when it asked for help in putting together a rescue pack­age. 
The Observer newspaper, of London. reported American n~gulators threatened to close Barings' New York brokerage office last year because of seri­ous failures in management. 
Barings insiders were quoted by the paper as saying that was another example of the bank's lax supervision of its oxerseas operations. which allowed Lee­son to bust Britain's oldest in­vestment bank. 
Meanwhile, the lNG Group of the Netherlands won its bid to take over Barings, court-ap­pointed administrators an­nounced Sunday in London. 
A source who spoh with The Associated Press on condition of anonymity said that the Dutch banking and insurance group would take over Barings' asset management firm, a corporate finance arm and a securities brokerage with expertise in the developing markets of Latin America and Asia. 
A report released Saturday by Price Waterhouse accountants in Singapore said Barings transferred $890 million from its London head office in Jan­uary and February in manda­tory up front money to back Leeson's futures trading. 
The Sunday Telegraph said bankers in London insist that $1 . 3 billion was transferred to Singapore. 
It quoted top financial sources as saying the bank sent the money from London to Singapore and opened a special account in the Cayman Islands, a Caribbean tax haven, to cover Leeson's dealings in the Osaka stock market in Japan. 
The huge transfers to Singa­

pore represented more than 
twice the bank's capital, esti­
mated at around $560 million. 
The 1987 Banking Act pro­

hibits banks from putting more 
than 25 percent of their money 
into any single "basket" with­
out authorization from the 
Bank of England's supervisory 
committee. 
It appears unlikely that Bar­

ings sought such permis"sion 
because Bank of England Gov­
ernor Eddie George said at the 
time of Barings' collapse that 
h;mk executives told him they 
had not known they had a 
problem until Feb. 23. 
Investigators in Singapore 

··:1id Saturday that Barings was 
warned seven months ago that 
LPr-son held too much power 
with too little supervision. They 
also made public a letter show­
ing Barings was told of the po­
tential problem as far back as 
1 !)f)2. 
Court-appointed administra­lnrs took over the bank on Feb. ·•-; after the Bank of England 
•·nnldn't put together a rescue P'll'kage. Leeson is believed to 
Reports: Barings may have broken bank rules 

lNG takes charge of collapsed firm 
By DIRK BEVERIDGE Assodated Press 
LONDON 

lNG Group of the Nether­lands, a large financial and in· surance concern, struck a deal Sunday to take over Barings, a week after England's oldest in­vestment bank co}lapsed over bad futures gambling in Asia. 
ING beat out a bid put to· gether by its Dutch rival; ABN Amro Holdings NV, and the 
U.S. investment bankSmith Barney. The deal was an­nounced Sunday by court·ap7 pointed administrators in con· trol of Barings. since last Mon­day. 
IN_G had earlier made a ten~ tative offer to pay 1 pound ($1,60) for Barings --:-but it would have to assume liabili­ties stretching into the hun­dreds of millions of dollars. 
A source speaking to The As­sociated Press on condition of anonymity said it· wasn't cer­tain that those terms were included in the final deal, which will be presented on Monday to a High Court judge in London. 
ING plans to take o'Ver the three main branches of 

Barings -an asset manage­ment irrm, a corporate finance arm and a securities broker­age with expertise in the developing markets of Latin America and Asia, the source 
said. · · The operations wUl be run by Hessel Lindbergh, a top lNG executive, the source said. ING also has agreed to retain all of Barings' 4,000 employees, the source said; · Last week, the world's top bankers were focused on a vain attempt by the Bank of England to rescue Barings from collapse. This week, they wondered whether the busted bank would be sold off by out­side administrators who are now in charge. · Court-appointed administra­tors had hoped that ING Group, a big financial and insurance concern, would pro­ceed with a bid to acquire all of Barings. That would allow them to dispose of a messy sit­uation all a;t once -leaving it to lNG to clean things up. Had lNG walked away, the biggest bank in the Nether­lands, ABN Amro Holdings NV, had learned up with the U.S. investment bank, Smith 
Peter Baring, chairman of the 232-year-old bank which counts Queen Elizabeth II among its customers, said last week that Leeson may have conspired with an unknown partner to break the bank. 
The Sunday Times reported that the Barings board, includ­ing Peter Baring, knew six months ago that there was a risk of disaster in Singapore, 

Looking for a place to stay during: .-J~!_~tfi);nn1fft~llhd? r~ ~~~atl~ll Weekend? r~ Weddings? r~ Home Football Games? Alumni Renting Out Historic Home For ND Special Events 
•Close 
to Campus (Just 2 miles Away!) 

•Safe 
Neighborhood 

•Competitive 
Rates 

•Fully 
Equiped Kitchen 

•University 
Club access 

•Summit 
Club access 

•5 
private suites w/ individual baths 

•
Accomodates up to 14 




Available to Show by Appointment Call Helenfor More Information@ 219 287-8163 

Happy Birthday 



Carrie! 
Love Mom, Dad, Mac, and Luke 
Barney, for a joint bid on parts of Barings PLC. 
ABN Amro was understood to have wanted Barings' corpo­rate finance arm and Baring Asset Management, which handles about $45 nillion in clients' funds, said a source familiar with the deal. 
Smith Barney had wanted Baring Securities. the source said. Barings went broke Feb. 26 after the Bank of England failed to ar.range a bailout package to save Barings from its losses on Asian futures markets, estimated at about $1 billion. 
Barings blamed Singapore­based trader Nick Leeson, who bet wrongly that Tokyo stock prices would rise last month. Leeson is in jail in Germany, fighting extradition to Singa­pore on forgery charges. 
But authorities in Singapore released evidence over the weekend suggesting that top Barings executives knew months or even years ago that they had a potential problem, and British newspapers re­ported Barings may have vio· lated British banking rules by putting too much money on risky futures bets. 
but failed to act. 
The Sunday Times quoted a Barings insider as saying the bank's board studied an August 1994 internal audit at its September 1994 meeting. 
But it said Ron Baker, head of Barings' derivatives business, persuaded the board he could handle Singapore "and he did­n't want amateurs messing it up." 
Price Waterhouse said Satur­day the audit recommending restructuring the Singapore operations so that one trader would no longer be allowed to initiate, settle and record his own transactions. Most compa­nies divided these responsibili­ties. 
According to a Barings ex­ecutive quoted by The Ob­server. the bank's problems with the U.S. Securities and Ex­change Commission last year centered around "chaotic ad­ministration and overemphasis on the trading side of the firm's activities." New York is the center for Barings' trading in the United States and Latin America. 
"Barings flew out a high­powered task force headed by two directors to resolve the problems in New York within the SEC's four-week deadline," The Observer said. 
Leeson, who is in jail in Frankfurt fighting extradition to Singapore, was quoted in the Sunday Mirror as telling an un­named ·friend that he was terri­fied of being murdered if he returns to Singapore. "I know too much -it's as simple as that," he was quoted as saying. 

have lost at least $1 billion by wrongly betting that Tokyo stock prices would rise last month. 
The Sunday Mirror quoted an unnamed friend of Leeson's in the banking business as saying "Nick is clear that his losses were nothing like that. He is re­sponsible for around 150 mil­lion pounds ($240 million). The rest is not down to him." 

GET INVOLVED! 
BE PART OF PLANNING 
VOlUJ rR JlF>W~ 
APPLY FOR A POSITION ON THE 
1996JPW 

EXECUTIVE COMM11TEE! 
DON'T MISS OUT! 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT THE LAFORTUNE INFO DESK. APPLICATIONS ARE DUE IN 315 LAFORTUNE BY 5:00P.M. ON 
e
T 


the Advertising Department is now accepting applications for 
dvertising Account Executives 
Are you creative? Do you like working with people? Do you want experience in sales? Do you need some cash? join us! 
Submit a one page statement with resume to John Potter in 314 LaFortune by Spring Break. Call John at 1-6900 or 4-1023 with uesnons. 
~-----------------------------------------.-.-.-.-.-.~... L.~.~.~.~.~.~.~.~.~.~.~.~.~.~.~.~.~.~.-.L.-.--.-.-.-.•-.-.-.-.-.-.-.---.-----~-.-.-.-~-.-.--~ 





VIEWPOINT 
Monday, March 6, 1995 page 9 
Students have right to the entire 'truth' 

• QuOTE OF THE DAY 
''you can't hold a man down without staying down with him." 
-Booker T. Washington 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advenising Manager............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Spons Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor............. . ...... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director...............Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Eiizabeth Regan Controller..................................... Kristen Martina 
Tht· Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­linn of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­tnrials represent the opinion of rhe majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Edimr, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Ediwr, Sporrs Ediwr, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commrmaries, leners and Inside Columns presenr the views of the amhors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Vicwpoim space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and rn all rcadt..'rs. The free expression ofvarying opinions through lerters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
htitor-in-Chicf 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 l'v1an,Jging Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 \cccnt/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 (),,y Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mai1 Observer. Viewpoint.l@nd.edu t :,•neral Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
• RIGHT OR WRONG 
"Symbolism Over Substance." Rush Umbaugh's description of the Clinton Administration could apply to Notre Dame's denial of recognition to GI.NO/SMC, the homosexual student group. Let's look at some basics first. 
The Catholic Church teaches that "homosexual acts" are "intrinsically dis­ordered" (Catechism, No. 2357). The Church further teaches that the homo­snxual condition is itself a disorder. The Letter on the Pastoral Care of 

Charles Rice 
llomoscxual Persons, issued with the approval of John Paul II in 1986, said, "\!though the particular inclination of I he homosexual person is not a sin, it is a more or less strong tendency ordered toward an intrinsic moral evil, and thus tlw inclination itself must be seen as an ohjP.ctive disorder... This does not lllPan that homosexual persons are not ' f'lp,n generous and giving or themselves; but when they engage in homosexual lll'tivity they confirm within themselves a disordered sexual inclination which is n•;sp,ntially setr-indulgent. ... It is dPplorable that homosexual persons 11:1\'P been and are the object of violent malice in speech or in action. Such trPatnwnt deserves condemnation .... But the proper reaction to crinws committed against homosexual persons should not hP to claim that the homosexual condi­1inn is not disordered" (Nos. 3, 7,1 0). 
Thn affirmation that the homosexual t'nndition is itsnlf a disorder is disposi­til·e. It makes no sense to insist that homosexual acts are intrinsically evil wiiiln denying that the inclination toward those acts is disordered. If one denies that the inclination is disordered, he will predictably conclude that it may rightly be acted upon. The 1986 letter urged "special concern and pastoral attention... toward those who have this condition, lest they be led to believe that the living out of this orientation in homosexual activity is a morally accept­able option. It is not" (No. 3). 
According to Vice President Patricia O'Hara, GLND/SMC's position is "not consistent with the teaching of the Church" because the group "addressed homosexual acts neutrally, and urged the University towards encouraging monogamous homosexual relationships" (The Observer, Feb. 21, 1995, p.l). The denial of recognition is correct. To rec­ognize GLND/SMC would be roughly comparable to recognizing a chapter of the Aryan Nation or a student bestiality club. Nevertheless, the University's overall position is incoherent. 
The University denies recognition of GLND/SMC because of its refusal to affirm the wrongness of homosexual acts. But this is empty symbolism, belied by the substance of the University's own contrary message to its students that the homosexual inclination is not disor­dered. 
In The Observer of Feb. 10, Patrick Utz, Director of the University Counseling Center, wrote, "Many of [the 
Center's core staffi are also Catholic and arc all well aware of the positions of the Catholic Church in this area-official and otherwise. As psychologists we sup­port the position that homosexuality is not a 'choice' or 'preference' but is a sexual orientation. Being homosexual is not a disorder . .. I would obviously like to see the recognition of a group for Gays and Lesbians... Sometimes believ­ers have to teach the 'official church' what Jesus meant. I think that is what Pentecost is about" (Observer, Feb. 10, 1995, p.ll). 
This discussion is not intended as a reflection on Patrick Utz, whose profes­sional competence and concern I have seen in other cases. However, it may be helpful to note the explication of the Church's teaching by Bishop Thomas V. Daily of Brooklyn in his 1993 pastoral letter, "As with all sexual disorder, the condition of homosexuality is the result of original sin .... The homosexual orien­tation violates a person's natural har­mony in regard tu the proper purpose of his or her sexuality and inclines the per­son toward 'acts which are contrary to the natural law.' The medical and behavioral sciences have not been able to determine what factors of genetics, hormones or variation in psychological upbringing cause a person to be homosexual. It is not my intention to en­ter into this complex area but to empha­size that the condition is ultimately the result of original sin, not normative, and may not be acted upon in the moral order." 
To my observation, neither Campus 
' It makes no sense to insist that homosexual acts are intrinsically evil while denying that the inclination toward those acts is disordered.' 
Ministry nor anyone else with University authority has affirmed, with respect to this controversy, both of these aspects of the teaching: not only that homosexual acts are wrong but also that the homo­sexual inclination is itself disordPred. The persistent omission of that affirma­tion raises an inference that the inclina­tion is not disordered or that its status in that regard is irrelevant. Interestingly, the 1986 letter said, "we wish to make it clear that departure from the church's teaching or silence about it, in an effort to provide pastoral care, is neither car­ing nor pastoral. Only what is true can 



:·~· 
n 
:!. 

ultimately be pastoral. The neglect of the church's position prevents homosex­ual men and women from receiving the care they need and deserve" (No. 15). Vice President O'Hara's denial of recog­nition is correct, but the position of the University as a whole is deceptive. It claims to defend the Catholic teaching but then, at the very least implicitly, it conveys to its students the decisive mes­sage, contrary to that teaching, that the homosexual condition is not disordered. 
If the leaders of this University are serious about wanting to help homosex­ual students, they ought to urge those students to contact Courage, a nation­wide support group sponsored by the Archdiocese of New York, which strives to help men and women to live chaste lives in accord with the Catholic Church's teaching on homosexuality. 
If our leaders can somehow bring themselves to affirm in its entirety the hopeful, constructive teaching of the Church, they will serve well the Notre Dame community and especially those of homosexual inclination, who will find in that teaching an affirmation of them­selves as persons. As the 1986 Letter stated, "The human person, made in the image and likeness of God, can hardly be adequately described by a reduction­ist reference to his or her sexual orientation .... Today the church provides a badly needed context for the care of the human person when she refuses to consider the person as a 'heterosexual' or a 'homosexual' and insists that every person has a fundamental identity: the creature of God and, by grace, his child and heir to eternal life" (No. 16). The letter emphasized the duty of "the entire Christian community" to "recognize its own call to assist its brothers and sis­ters, without deluding them or isolating them" (No. 15). 
As persons, the first thing our students are entitled to is the truth. All of it. 
Professor Rice is on the Law School Faculty. His column appears every other Monday. 
VIEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, March 6, 1995 
Innocent attempt at humor gets ugly 

Dear Editor: 
On the night of Friday, Feb. 24, the ND community wit­nessed the annual Troop ND Talent Show at Washington Hall. Troop ND has been known to present a wide vari­ety of performances that usual­ly make for a good time. Ilowever, I found this year's pPrformance to be an' excep­tion as a result of one of the performances enacted by a club named the Humor Artists. 
In general, this skit seemed immature and pointless leav­ing the crowd with virtually no effects of humor. However, this is not the reason for this l••tter. Rather, I want to bring this campus' attention to a pn rticular scene of this skit that was an ignorant display of rncial prejudice intended to be performed within the context ol'comedy. 
Towards the left side of the stage the skit featured two artors who were clear repre­sentatives of Spanish-speaking Latinos working as mainte­nance workers, or janitors. One worker standing erect with a broom in hand consis­tl'ntly repeated the word cabron, a very profane word in Spanish. The other was crouched on his hands and knees with a dust pan in hand, rPpeating the word mira, which means "look," as he pointed to dirt and dust on the lloor. 
Not only were these two characters representatives of two silly idiots that the Humor Artists intended to make us laugh at, neither one was rapable of engaging in any form of coherent interaction with one another. This is clear from the fact that they didn't understand one another and from the standing Latino jani­tor's profane name calling at his co-worker on the floor, as if to be reprimanding and insult­ing him for his stupidity or inability to comprehend. On top of all this, these two work­ers were Spanish-speaking Latinos. 
But there is more. An actor, who was supposed to repre­sent a journahst, approached the two Latino portraits of stu­pidity in an effort to interview them. The two Latino janitors clearly did not understand the man as they shouted "Yo no hablo ingles!" (I don't speak English). The manner in which they shouted these words showed them to be harsh and unwilling to cooperate, as if they were not even capable of 
' It calls for a reaction 
that challenges peo­ple to think about the kind of humor they 
embrace when the theme includes various ethnicities.' 
relating with this journalist. 
I can recall the journalist asking the question "Why did you even come to this coun­try?" I took this to mean some­thing to the effect of "Why did you ignorant Spanish-speaking people come to this country anyway?" The standing Latino janitor continued to sweep vig­orously, as if that was his sole obligation, while the Latino janitor on his hands and knees proceeded to grovel on the floor across the stage in search of more to clean. 
I am deeply offended. First, I am appalled that this perfor­mance was enacted on stage at all, but especially because it was performed at the Troop ND Talent Show, an event sponsored by an organization that is supposed to promote cultural diversity through song and dance. I don't know what kind of screening process was implemented, but someone certainly allowed this skit to be performed. 
Second, I am disgustc 1 that the Humor Artists would both find such a de~rading portray­al of Latinos as something funny, and how they could be insensitive to the effects that such racial "humor" could aggravate. Finally, I am con­fused as to why ::.o very few students in the audience con­tinued to sit in indifferent silence while this skit con­tinued. I find that far too many students seemed to be desensi­tized with respect to the gravi­ty of this ignorant racial "humor." 
This event must be made an issue. It calls for a reaction that challenges people to think about the kind of humor they embrace when the theme includes various ethnicities. This portrayal of Latinos is an explicit disgrace to human dig­nity. But it is an even greater disgrace if no one does any­thing about it. 
The ND community and its Latinos deserve an immediate apology from the collective members of the Humor Artists. We deserve an apology from Troop ND and the student "powers that be" who allowed this performance to be demon­strated. 
Additionally, every ethnic or­ganization on this campus should be outraged at this per­spective of the Latino race. I challenge them to do some­thing about it. 
Finally, we call for support from the administration through the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs and all other branches of the University staff and faculty to reinforce how this racial preju­dice should be prevented from occurring in the future. 
DAVID JUAN SULLIVAN 
Editor and Founder ofNuesrra Voz, 
Hispanic newsletter 

Nothing funny about this brand of comedy 
Dc:ar Editor: 
Recently a grave injustice was aimed at the Latino community. As members and leaders of that community, we speak for every­one when we say we were offended and outraged by an incident which occurred at Troop Notre Dame's talent show. The skit per­formed by the Humor Artists was totally out of place and inappro­priate. It involved newspaper reporters searching for a story while violenre and chaos were tah.ing place in the background. At the end of the skit, two members of the group were dressed as jani­tors :•i'eaking Spanish, or attempting to speak Spanish as only obscenities and totally incoherent phrases were used. 
We understood that each skit was to be screened. How this one was allowed to be performed by Troop Notre Dame is a mystery to us. As a Catholic university, it should be beneath the Notre Dame community to have such racially offensive performances anywhere on our campu·. This is not an issue that only Latinos, African­Americans or uLher ethnic minorities should be offended by, but one that as a Christian community we should all work together to defeat. We must keep such atrocities and racial barriers from set­ting foot within our campus. 
Therefore, as representatives of the Latino campus organiza­tions, we demand that a public apology be submitted, in order to ensure that this does not happen again, by all participants in this incident including those who allowed the situation to develop. If the performance was acted out of mere ignorance, then as a com­munity we must all educate and promote cultural awareness; if the performance was acted out of blatant racism, then we must all 
work together to have it stoppPrl.!  
STEVe HERNANDEZ  JOSE CERVANTEZ  
President  President  
Hispanic American Organization  League of United Larin American Citizens  
LUCAS MOLINA  
President  
National Hispanic Institute  

Humor Artists apologize 
Dear Editor: 
At the Troop ND show, we of HA, Humor Artists, performed a comedy sketch which some Latin American members of the audience found offensive. This reaction was certainly not our intention, and we are sorry that it occurred. The sketch was not meant to insult any group on-campus or off. Rather it was meant to entertain the audience, nothing more. 
Comedy is a strange business, and occasionally what one indi­vidual finds funny or amusing, another finds offensive. While there is no way for HA to change this, we will in the future attempt to better de­termine whether our skits are offensive or not. 
Again, we of HA apologize to anyone whom we might have offended, but in comedy this is sometimes inevitable. 
BRIAN UETZ ALAN LASER Nine other members of HA 

Students choose to attend Notre Dame 
Dear Editor: 
Let's face it. This isn't a state university, and, therefore, such pleasantries as "freedom of ex­pression" and "freedom of assembly" don't necessari­ly ltavP to apply here. Sure, il would be nice if they did. After all, all that censorship and bias do at any university is place constraints on education. Nevertheless, this is a private university, and, if the administration chooses to deny certain freedoms to rPrtain people, so be it. 
So is the administration's position on homosexuali­ty right or wrong? Once again, a matter of opinion. Tlw fact is that every student on this campus chose to rome here. Moreover, every student chose to come hPrc knowing that Notre Dame is a Catholic universi­tv. 
· In making this choice, students should have (and l10pefully did) take into account that Catholicism is a vPry conservative religion and, therefore, the prevail­ing beliefs, policies and, indeed, life in general at l'\otm Dame are going to be quite different from the beliefs, policies, and life at other universities. Granted, we may not have known that the adminis­tration believes that, after certain hours in the morn­ing, students are inevitably more likely to h<~·;e s~..;x, or that a certain editorial written by an auonymous amlwr would be censored for offending a few overly sensitive egos. 
Nonetheless, in coming to Notre Dame, each and every student, including heterosexuals, homosexuals, bisexuals and asexuals, chose to relinquish certain privileges in return for an Catholir education at a prestigious university. 
So, if you have recently decided that such an educa­tion is no longer worth giving up such privileges and that you can no longer function in an environment as conservative as Notre Dame's, always remember that nobody is forcing you to come here. 
MIKE PERRONE Sophomore Sarin Hall 

l
I I 
ACC~NT 
Monday, March 6, 1995 page 11 
• AT THE MOVIES WITH fAT MAN AND DADDY 
Connery makes 'Just Cause' a guilty pleasure 
***out four ... 

A 
multi-layered web of motives, distorted facts. and wily charac­ters confront 1/aruard Law pro­./i•ssor Sean Connery as he finds himself rr•opening an old murder case. Blair lIn derwood plays an ex-Ivy League stu­dl'nt convictr>d of raping and brutally murdering a little girl. He has been sen­fenced to death and he dispatches his yrandmother to seek the legal aid of So•an Connery. who reluctantly accepts t.IH' case. 11 continuous stream ofevents ((fld facts begin to emerge as Connery diqs deeper into the case. Lawrence Fishburne is the seemingly evil police­man who attempts to block Connery's J'l'rsistent attr>mpts to discover the truth o( what actually happened. From this lwsic premise. an intricate plot deuelops trhich spurs on the rest of the action in IIH' film. 
naddy: It is always extremely pleas­ing to be treated to both a savory Lenten hamburger and an excellent movie in lhn course of one evening. "Just Cause" JlrOVI~d to bn just as tasty as a 1/2 pound of all hnnf IHljoyrnent and as nutritious for thn mind as cow meat is for the hody. Normally food is a topic bnst dealt with by the Fat Man. but tonight I can­not come up with a more apt analogy to dnscriiHl the personal utility that this film provided me with. "Just Cause" \\"as a double patty complete with all the rwc·nssary dmssings required to fully sa­tiatn my einematic appetite. 
Would a burgnr be complete without llu~ complimentary buns between which il should be so comfortably nestled? 1\hsolutnly not! Likewise, the 100% grade "A" plot of "Just Cause" would not bo a consummate expression of enter­tainment without the bookend acting performances of Sean Connery and Lawrence Fishburne. As a fledging movie critic, I eagerly awaited the time when I could cast a degree of scrutiny on the WGrk of one of my personal 
'The climax of "Just Cause" 
delivers a sufficient dose of excitement that left the Fat Man quivering like a Jell-0 mold in an earthquake and even induced Daddy to stand and applaud the final resolution.' 
Daddy 
heroes, in this case Sean Connery. However, I must admit that I approached tonight's opportunity with a bit of trepidation; was I worthy to exam­ine the work of Indiana Jones' father? 
Fortunately, my anxiety was soon con­quered by my arrogance, and I prepared myself to address a task that turned out to be quite elementary. My job was made easy by Connery's ability to once again remind one and all what the ulti­mate form of a master thespian is and should be. All right, so maybe Connery has been cast in some disappointing roles in the past. However, is there any­one who would assert that Connery isn't at least mildly stupendous when he is at his worst in movies like "Highlander II" (There should have only been one!)? In "Just Cause," Sean Connery justifies the price of your ticket, and while wading through murky swamps he reminds us all of his film classics "Dr. No" and "Thunderball." 
Without revealing any of the surprises that make this movie the thriller that it is, allow Daddy to salute the writers of "Just Cause" who deftly combine the suspense of the movie with the tense action of its conclusion. The climax of "Just Cause" delivers a sufficient dose of excitement that left the Fat Man quiver­ing like a Jell-0 mold in an earthquake and even induced Daddy to stand and applaud the final resolution. In conclu­sion, let Daddy give everybody a sugges­tion: Grab yourself a burger and a ticket to "Just Cause." One will entertain you; the other will get you the protein that the dining halls attempt to deny us of during the annual Lenten conspiracy. 
Fat Man: What can be more pleasing than a film with a multi-layered, sponta­neous plot cluttered with original and continually developing characters? Nothing, not even all-you-can-eat pop­corn at the concession stand. "Just Cause" provides what so few movies do: a great plot and great acting. The film introduces only a limited group of char­acters whose roles are in continual !lux as loyalties and power alliances between them continually shift. Unlike other thrillers where additional characters or easily spotted insiders are the culprits in some crime, this movie never allows for the characters to be perceived in the same way for very long. For instance, Sean Connery moves from the witty Harvard Law professor who despises the death penalty, to a dispenser of social and criminal justice, to a father and husband who must choose to either accept or reject his morals in the face of danger. This complete mutability of character is not exclusive to just him. Lawrence Fishburne and Blair Underwood also change throughout the movie as Connery digs deeper into their lives. The film does not prematurely reveal their exact relationship to the crime nor what their motivations really are. 
The beauty of "Just Cause" is that it continually tricks the viewer; it inces­santly toys with the emotions taking you from indignant offense to skepticism to fear. Nothing is ever completely estab­lished and nothing completely resolved. Even the conclusion to the film leaves serious moral questions about the even­tual protagonists. The story refuses to provide solid answers and a clean cast of characters. The only marginal char­acter is the imprisoned serial killer played by Ed Harris. Although cursed with several dysfunctional attributes {he writes letters describing his exploits to his victims' relatives), he is overwrought and a little too over dramatic. A kind of Dave Koresh on amphetamines, he spews out Bible quotes steeped with clues about the murder. This grows a little tiresome (I get enough of this in theology class) and so does his charac­ter. But this aside, nothing else in this movie can be quibbled about. 
The highest compliment that the Fat Man can pay "Just Cause" is that he was too busy anxiously squirming in his seat. (and annoying Daddy) to get up to refill his popcorn. Normally, a movie has a refill or bathroom break segment some­where towards the middle or it, but this film never paused. Everything matters and nothing superfluous is included to fill space. This movie did the acting of both Sean Connery and Lawrence Fishburne justice and it is well worth viewing. 
Fat Man and Daddy are John Zack and Scott Bozik. Their movie reviews appear every Monday. 
i "' llOOI( CRITIC 
The Hot Zone: A horrifying true story 
T1y KATIE BAGLEY 
\rn:nr Wrirer 
R
iehard Preston's latest book, "/'he Hot Zone. can easily be described in three words: vPry, very scary. It is the kind of hook you don't want to keep read­ing, yet feel compelled to. You must makn surr. that nverything turns out okay in the end. Stephen King called the first chaptnr "one of the most horrifying things I've ever read in my whole life... and then it gets worsn." Thn first ehapter details the casn of a man who has contracted one of the worst diseases you could 
1 ·wssibly imagine; it just gets worse :·rom them. The scenario sounds like some­thing out of a science fiction novel­a deadly, incurable virus from the rain forests of Africa surfaces in a 
•;uhurb of Washington, D.C. Very lit­liP is known about it, except that its Lilality rate may he as high as ninety Jll'fl~ent. Its victims die a horrible and gruesome death, every part of llrnir bodies attacked and destroyed. 1-:\·pn tho nxpNts are in terror of it. 
It sounds like The !lndromeda
1 
1 o.,·rrain, hut with one significant and di<;turbing dif'ft~rence-it really hap­pnrwd. Thn people Preston riPserihes-tiH~ scientists, the doc­tors. and the vietims-are all real pPople, many of whom were inter­' il'wnd for the book. The hospitals :111d agnneies ar1~ all real. And, most l"rightnning of all, the virus which llll'mttnns to hrnak out and ravage a major American eity actually exists. 
11 is easy to forget that you are nlading a true story. Like Schindler's List, the book is written in the style of a novel. Although it is much too disturbing to be called an easy read. it is neither dry nor tech­nical. In a style similar to Crichton's, Preston makes a good effort to bring to life the people and places he describes. lie lets you look into the minds of the characters and see their thoughts and fears. Each individual in the story is fleshed out, so that it is not just a book about a deadly virus, but about the people who are affected by it. Preston also does an excellent job of providing the necessary technical and biologi­cal information needed to under­stand the events without interfering with the story. 
The story, of course, is the best part. There is enough suspense and intrigue to keep you reading, and there is definitely enough fear to keep you nervous. Preston does an excellent job of weaving together dif­ferent locales and events into one smooth plot which would be the envy of any science fiction writer. Disregard the temptation to treat it as such, though. It may sound like science fiction, but it isn't. 
There is more to this novel than 
mere entertainment value. The virus 
Preston describes, known as the 
Ebola virus, is not the only fatal 
agent to come creeping out of the 
African jungles. There are a host of 
"emerging viruses," one of the more 
well-known, of course, being IllY. In 
a sense, the threat of the Ebola virus 
has already been realized in the 
spread of AIDS. Preston suggests 
that we have only seen the begin­
ning of the effects of HIV; other 
nasty surprises await us as we push farther into previously unknown areas for the sake of development. It is his theory that other "micro­breaks" will be found as we come in contact with new viruses attempting to crossover to our species. This is perhaps what makes this book so in­credibly frightening. Not only has this happened before, it will proba­bly happen again. 
If you are looking for a good book to kick back and relax with, this is possibly the worst book you could choose. If you are looking for a good scare, on the other hand, this is the perfect read. When you reach the last page, you may find yourself with a massive desire to exhale. With an excellent blend of a scientif­ic reality and human emotion, Preston has created a book that has the power not only to thrill, but to disturb. 
Best Sellers Hardback Fiction 

1. 
The Celestine Prophesy, James Redfield 

2. 
Border Music, Robert J Waller 

3. 
Original Sin, P.O. James 




4. 
Politically Correct Bedtime Stories, James Finn Garner 


5. Kiss the Girls, James Patterson 
6. 
The Cat Who Blew The Whistle. Lillian Jackson Braun 

7. 
Bridges of Madison County, Robert J. Waller 


8. Home Song, LaVyrle Spencer 
9. Always a Reckoning, Jimmy Carter 
10. The Glass Lake, Maeve llinchy 

1. 
Tom Clancy's Op Center, Tom Clancy 

2. 
Accident, Danielle Steel 

3. 
The Day After Tomorrow, Allan Folsom 

4. 
Inca Gold, Clive Cussler 


5. 
The Cat Who Came to Breakfast, Lillian Jackson Braun 

6. 
Icebound, Dean Koontz 

7. 
Fatal Cure, Hobin Cook 



8. 
Star Wars: Ambush at Corellia, Hoger MacBride Allen 

9. 
Embraced by the Light, Betty J. Eadie 

10. 
The Robber Bride, Margaret Atwood 




Source/ Chicago Tribune 
-
page 12 Monday, March 6, 1995 
ACCENT 
Tom Petty mixes old and new 
Ar
By PETE RUBINAS to being "high as a kite." Great Wide Open," and another Assistant Accent Edior Whatever his inspiration, the crowd favorite "Mary Jane's music was for the most part Last Dance." oller coaster ride of in­fun, with a few moments of mu­tense and chillin' music sical genius mixed in. Perhaps the poorest perfor­s the best way to Musically, the highlight of the mance of the night was the describe Friday night's perfor­evening was guitarist Mike good ol' JACC. Packed in like mance by Tom Petty and the Campbell's performance. His sardines, the crowd of more Heartbreakers at the JACC. It skill was especially evident dur­than 9,000 people had to pay as was a night of surprises, new ing a solo piece while Petty took much attention to who they songs, and strange occur­a break during the acoustic set. were stepping on or whose sec­rences, not the least of which ond-hand smoke they were was the wild and crazy "tie­Petty and the band played breathing in as they did to the dyed mad hatter" frequenting from a simple stage lit by can­concert itself. section 112 of the arena. dles and backed by a very ran­
dom white sheet that rose and Other surprises for the night 
After a driving opening set of fell in different manners included an as-yet unrecorded five songs, Petty and his friends throughout the show. They tune called "Driving Down to slipped into an acoustic set con­kicked off the show with "Love Georgia," an intense piece that sisting of old and new songs, is a Long Road," and they didn't reached a tumultuous climax and they even threw in an slow down until after they had towards the end of the third obscure Byrds track that is one gone through four more songs set. And then, there was the 
of Tom's favorites. Next. the including "You Don't Know "tie-dyed mad hatter," an ener­band got the crowd back into How It Feels" and "You Wreck getic fan in section 112 whose things with some more upbeat Me," both from his new album hapless dancing was so violent pieces. mostly from his more "Wildflowers." all night, one wondered if he recent albums. After keeping was doing the next Energizer the crowd in suspense for a The acoustic set was high­bunny commercial. 
good five minutes, Petty lighted by slow versions of returned for a three song en­"Free Fallin"' and "Won't Back Ultimately, Tom Petty and the core, including crowd favorite Down," as well as the title track Heartbreakers left the crowd 
"American Girl." from the "Wildflowers" CD. feeling good with what proved
"Good to Be King," the opening to be a unique evening of musi­song of the third set, featured
Petty was noticeably inspired cal fun. The concert also
the best technical display of the 
for the concert, and he speci­proved that Petty still has what
evening, but the song dragged
fied the source of this inspira­it takes to please a two-genera­
on seemingly forever, losing
tion midway through. tion crowd almost twenty years
steam as it progressed. Other
Stumbling across the stage, after first arriving on the rock
notables in the third set in­
Petty made a candid reference music scene.
cluded "Refugee," "Into the

Sophomore Four: Continuing the tradition 
By TONY POTTINGER Accent Writer 

I
t has all the ingredients of a large­scale theatrical production-nine­teen actors, four directors, and dozens of rehearsal hours per week in order to prepare for the performance. These components make up neither the Notre Dame Communications and Theater Department nor a traveling llroadway company. Rather, the long hours and dedicated people comprise a 
group that is responsible for the Sophomore Four, a now annual tradi­tion of four one-act plays directed and acted by the class of 1997. 
The plays are sponsored by the sophomore class. The program origi­nated several years ago when Anne Marie Wolf, an advisor in the Freshman Year of Studies, proposed that the freshman class perform a night of one-act plays. Now, the class per­forms each year, offering a chance for both non-theater majors and those who do not have the time to devote to de­partmental productions to act. Students are able to see their peers perform in a relaxed, informal environment. 
Katie Hillman is a Siegfried sopho­more and the director of "Blind Date," which is a Horton Foote comedy. She appreciates the unique nature of the Sophomore Four and recognizes the value of bringing together students of \'arying academic backgrounds. This,
• 
along with an emphasis on fostering r-lass unity and new friendships are r·Pntra\ to the program as the produc­tion itself. She said "It's been very dif­ferent from other theater programs 
here. None of us have a lot of direction 
Pxpnrience so we purposely picked 
works that were not too complex."
-
For Kate Telesca, this year's Sophomore Four is particularly special hr.cause she directed the Freshman Four last year. The Siegfried resident is directing her fellow sophomores in "An Author in Search of Six Characters," which is an unpublished play by Kay ~frElven. a high school friend. Telsca is a veteran of "The Bacchae" and "Dancing at Lughnasa." She said "We directed by Grace Hall resident Adam were directed and performed by fresh­have a lot of people who did theater in Weiler. Kate Telesca is the director of man. The goal of the program is to high school but don't have the time for the unpublished, "An Author in Search develop a sort of tradition that will bigger programs here," Telesca says. of Six Characters," by Kay McElven. A involve four one-act plays directed and "It's a lot of fun, builds camaraderie, distraught author's agent goes to extra­performed by juniors and another set and promotes class unity." As director, ordinary lengths to cure his client of a directed and performed by seniors. Telesca has been open to many of the bad case of writer's block. "He's Kate Telsca said "I think the value of suggestions of her performers during Having A Baby," by Fred Carmichael, such a program is immense. That is rehearsals. "There are many depicts a waiting room of women wait­why we hope to get all students of all improvisations in the play that the ing for their husbands to give birth. It ages involved in what will hopefully actors contributed," she says. is directed by John Gilgore. turn out to be a successful tradition." 
John Kilgore, an Alumni resident, is The Sophomore Four follows the The Sophomore Four performs unique among this year's directors in Freshman Four which was a series of tonight and Tuesday at 8 PM in the that he is not a theater major. He four one-act plays that showed Lafortune Ballroom. Seating is limited said, "The program has been great for February 24th and 25th. These plays and will begin at 7:30PM. me. I was in a community theater group run by parents since eighth grade. You get a chance to forget about your studies. Acting is a release from all that." 
Kilgore estimates that he and his actors have spent between two and three hours per week preparing for Fred Carmichael's "He's Having a Baby." The sets are minimal given both the limited budget and the nature of the works performed. Costumes con­sist largely of contemporary clothing. "It's not as intense as a main stage pro­duction. The atmosphere is a lot like that of the St. Ed's Players," said Kilgore. 
Hillman, whose play is longer and involves more direction, has held prac­tices for 10-12 hours per week. "The cast has done a lot of work on their own, especially in getting their lines memorized. In choosing this play I wanted to avoid biting off more than I could chew," she explained. "I've been able to balance getting their respect as a director with having a friendly, fun atmosphere." 
The four plays showing are promis­ing; they are the products of many tal­ented people and many long hours spent practicing. "Blind Date" is di­rected by Katie Hillma. It is about a very old-fashioned aunt, who is sur­prised by her niece's modern attitudes on men when she goes out on a date. Fred Carmichael's "When God Comes to Breakfast, You Don't Burn the Toast," witnesses the Lord Himself vis­iting a couple in their kitchen. It is 
The Soph Four gears into action. 

page 13

Monday March 6, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS 
• ~OllEGE BASKETBALl 
UCLA goes inside on Louisville for victory 
By MIKE EMBRY 
Associated Press 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. 

Ed ()'Bannon scored 25 points, and Tyus Edney added 20 as top-ranked UCLA dominated the inside in turning back Louisville 91-73 and winning its 11th straight game Sunday. 
UCLA (23-2) held a commanding 40­22 advantage in rebounds, and scored numerous baskets on putbacks and dunks. Toby Bailey had 11 rebounds to lnad the Bruins' inside attack that -;c:ored 25 second-chance points. 
UCLA outscored Louisville 18-4 in the final 2:29 to turn back the upset bid and dnfnat the Cardinals for the fifth straight time. 
Louisville (16-13) rallied from 53-36 with 15:41 to go to 73-69 on Jason Osborne's 3-pointer from the right wing with 2:52 to go. 
But Louisville turned the ball over on 
its next three possessions, and UCLA 
answered with Charles O'Bannon's 
rnhound baskets and two free throws 
eac:h by George Zidek and Tyus Edney to 
oplln an 81-69 advantage with 1:28 
n~maining in the game. 
Bailey finished with 17 points and 
Charles ()'Bannon added 16 for UCLA, 
which shot 58 percent (33-for-57) from 
tlw lield. 
DeJuan Wheat scored 14 of his 18 
points in the second half to pace 
Louisville whilo Samaki Walker had 14, 
OsbonH~ 11 and Eric Johnson 10. The 
Cardinals hit 46 percent (30-for-66) of 
tlwir shots. 
UCLA, hilling nine of its first 13 shots, 
rnovnd out to a 22-9 lead on Charles 
()'Bannon's dunk as Louisville missed 13 
of 17 shots in the lirst 10 minutes. 
But UCLA couldn't pull away because Louisville's pressure defense forced the Bruins into 12 turnovers in closing the gap to 41-31 at the half. 
UCLA, with Bailey scoring on three rebound baskets, went on a 13-4 run in the opening 4:19 of the second half to take an 18-point lead. 
No. 13 Virginia 92, No. 6 Maryland 67 
CHAHLOTTESVILLE, Va. Virginia tied up the Atlantic Coast Conference like it never has been. 
The 13th-ranked Cavaliers beat No. 6 Maryland 92-67 Sunday and the ACC finished in a four-way tie for first place for the first' time in its 41-year history. 
Wake Forest, North Carolina, Maryland and Virginia all finished the regular season with 12-4 records and that's the way they will be seeded by tiebreakers when the conference tour­nament gets under way this week in Greensboro, N.C. 
"This is very satisfying, but not as sat­isfying as if we had sole possession," Virginia coach Jeff Jones said. "The team worked hard and this senior group was able to accomplish one of its goals." 
Virginia (21-7) won for the ninth time 
in 10 games as Junior Burrough scored 
24 points, Harold Deane added 19 points 
and 14 assists and freshman Curtis 
Staples had 18 points, all on 3-pointers. 
Deane, whose 14 assists tied the 
school record. landed hard on his left 
wrist late in the game. 

"They think it's a sprain and he'll 
have precautionary X-rays tonight," 
Jones said. "It's pretty sore and (the 
doctor and trainer} want to take a look 
at it, but they said in all likelihood it's 
just a sprain." 

Deane, who had an icebag wrapped around his wrist, said he played a lot differently than he did in the teams' first meeting this season. 
"I watched a lot of tape of the first game against them and they were very conscious of me shooting," he said. 
Maryland (22-6} was never able to get untracked offensively in having a four­game winning streak snapped. Joe Smith led the Terrapins with 25 points, but Virginia's physical defense shut down everyone else and the game wasn't close over the entire second half. 
The Cavaliers led 42-33 at halftime and they had the lead to 56-37 with 
16:18 to play on consecutive 3-pointers 
by Staples. Maryland closed within 64-52 with 
10:54 left. but another 3-pointer by Staples capped a 10-2 run that made it 74-54 with 7:37 left. The Terrapins were never closer than 16 the rest of the way. 
St. John's 86, No. 23 Georgetown 77 
NEWYOHK 

Freshman center Zendon Hamilton 
scored 21 points, 14 in the second half 
as St. John's rallied for an 86-77 victory 
over Georgetown in the final Big East 
conference game of the season Sunday. 
James Scott had 19 points and 11 re­
bounds for the Hed Storm (14-12, 7-11), 
who probably clinched an NIT berth 
with its fifth win in seven games. Felipe 
Lopez had 15 points and Hoshown 
McLeod 12, all in the second half. 
Allen Iverson, another freshman, had 
28 points for the No. 23 Hoyas (18-8, 11­
7) who had won four in a row. Jerome Williams followed with 20 and a game­high 20 rebounds: 
The loss dropped Georgetown to fourth seed in the Big East tournament and the Hoyas will start off against Miami Friday. The tournament begins Thursday, when St. John's plays Pitt. 
St. John's trailed 44-35 at halftime but outscored the Hoyas 13-4 in the first 
4:48 of the second half for a 48-48 tie. Hamilton led the way with 5 points, and Scott had 4. Iverson gave Georgetown its last lead, 6 7-65, with two foul shots with 
5:20 to play. 
St. John's then took over, outscoring Georgetown 17~7 for an 82-74 lead with 
52.4 seconds left. McLeod sparked the surge with 7 points. 
Georgetown led 31-23 with 7:45 to play before halftime when the Red Storm went on a 10-3 run behind Hamilton's 7 points, closing within 34­33 with 4:25 to go. 
Iowa 89, Michigan 69 
IOWA CITY, Iowa 

Jess Settles and Chris Kingsbury each scored 19 points Sunday to pace Iowa to an 89-69 victory over Michigan and keep the Hawkeyes' NCM tournament hopes alive. 
Jim Bartels scored 18 and Kenyon 
Murray 12 for Iowa (18-10 overall, 8-8 
Big Ten}. The Hawkeyes had lost the last 
four games to the Wolverines and seven 
of the last eight. 
Michigan (16-12, 10-6) was led by 
Maurice Taylor's 14 points. Jimmy King 
and Willie Mitchell each had 13 and Hay 
Jackson 11 for the Wolverines. 
Murray's hook shot in the lane with 
4:41 remaining gave the Hawkeyes their largest lead, 71-57, to that point. It was also Iowa's last field goal until a Murray 3-pointer with two seconds left. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces . 
SUMMER JOBS-COUNSELORS &  SUMMER JOBS  COMPUTER: Mac Classic II. 4mb  Need to rent 2 bdrm. apt.  
.____N_o_T_Ic_E_s_ __Jl  ILOST & FOUND I  STAFF BOYS SPORTS  ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  RAM, 80 mb HD. With Microsoft  at Turtle Creek. If you have  
CAMP/MASS. TOP SALARY  PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS  Word 5. 1. ClarisWorks. other soft·  12 mo. lease, call Laura  
Somebody accidentally picked  RM/BD/LAUNDRY, TRAVEL  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  ware. Call631·4533 or 273·6058.  x4541  
ATTENTION SOPHOMORES:  up the wrong black sportcoat at  ALLOWANCE. MUST HAVE SKILL  NEAR LAKE PLACID  
Are you looking for thai seJVice pro­ the Grace/Fianner SYR last Fri.  IN ONE OF THE FOLLOWING  CALL 1·800·786·8373  Mardi Gras Mambo 95'  
ject thai really makes a difference.  My ID is in the inside pocket  ACTIVITIES: Archery. Baseball,  For sale: Guess? watch. Case  1 . Scary thought: Soley monster  
and is a lot of fun? Look no fur·  please return to Calvin Nelson  Basketball, Drums, Football, Goll,  never opened, never used. Pearled  meets ski's full moon.  
!her...  214 Grace 4·1598  Guitar. Ice Hockey. Lacrosse.  SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS:  face, black leather band. Make an  2 .Asher. wear boxers when you  
---------·  Lifeguard, Nature, Nurses.  Make a difference in the life of a  offer! 284·5311  drop trou  
THE SOPHOMORE CLASS  lll!llllllll LOST WATCH !!!!ll!!ll!llllll  Photography. Piano, Pool,  child I Summer therapy camp for  3.Cujo, the front man and his  
SERVICE PROJECT  I lost my watch in O'shag on 2·16. It has a wide black band with a  Rocketry, Rollerblading, Ropes. Sailing, Scuba, Secretary, Soccer,  handicapped children. Located on shore of Lake Superior near Big  TICKETS  unused condom collection 4.Here comes Hurrricane Cobain  
Youth Mentoring at the NE  white face. The numbers on the  Tennis, Track, Video, Waterski,  Bay. MI. Positions available for  5.Shaeffe the trip home wasn't hor·  
Neighborhood WEDNESDAYS  face are written in Cherokee. The  Windsurfing, Weights. Wood,  Counselors, Waterfront, Instructors  • REM Ticket for Sale •  rendo  
AND FRIDAYS 2:30·3:30·4:30  designer's name is on the face ­ Yearbook. Call or write: Camp  for Nature/Arts & Crafts/Recreation,  Kansas City -May 27  6.Quinn : The Bead Barterer  
meet at room 161 or Main Circle  Winadu, 2255 Glades Rd., Suite  Nurses. Therapists. Food SeJVice,  Best Offer-Christian x1181  
Questions? · Brian Tierney x 1 058  "Chad Smith". If you found this  406E. Boca Raton. FL 33431,  and Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic,  
watch, PLEASE consider returning it to me. It's very important to me.  (800)494·6238 Recruiter will be on campus DATE: 316 TIME: !O:OOam·  responsible, and love children. June 18 through August 13. Salary, room  PERSONAL  JOINT MILITARY BLOOD DRIVE Wednesday March 8  
Ramada Inn of Elkhart has rooms  If you have seen this watch please  4:00pm PLACE: Dooley Room ·  & board, and experience of lifetime  All day in the Navy Ward Room of  
for Graduation weekend. Minimum  call Nancy, 277·0655. REWARD.  Lafortune. STOP BY·No appoint­ provided. Call or write for applica·  000 The Copy Shop 000  Pasquerilla Center  
stay of two nights required. $125  ment needed.  lion and information. Bay Cliff _  LaFortune Student Center  Help support the Mlchiana area  
advance deposit per room.  Health Camp, 310 W. Washington,  WE'RE OPEN EARLY. LATE.  trauma centers.  
Conveniently located at 80/90 Toll  LOST: A LONG BLACK  Suite 300, Marquette, Ml49855,  & WEEKENDS FOR YOUR  
Road. 15 miles from Campus. Send  WOMAN'S PERRY ELLIS COAT  COUNSELORS: CAMP EMER­ (906)228·5770  CONVENIENCE Ill  
request by mail to 3011 Belvedere  AT SR. BAR ON FRI. FEB. 10  SON. coed Mass. Swimming, ten­ Phone 631-COPY  LOSE WEIGHT FOR SUMMER · I  
Rd. Elkhart. IN 46514 or fax to 219·  (FISHER-WALSH DANCE)  nis, baseball, basketball. soccer.  WANTED: 1985·88 CHEVY BLAZ­ lost over 20 lbs., went from a size 9  
262·1590.  PLEASE CALL CINDY AT  sailing, windsurfing, waterskiing,  ER OR GMC JIMMY. GOOD CON·  to a 3 in 8 weeks, without  
273·5399 WITH ANY INFO.­ arts/crafts, theatre, woodworking,  DITION. 272-9402.  Well, come the wee·wee hours,  drugs/diets/exercise! All-natural  
REWARD!IIII  rocketry, archery, judo, yearbook,  maybe baby the gypsy lied  product·guaranteed results! Kelly  
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  photography, video, radio, comput­ (800)209·2150.  
SPRING BREAK MONEY MORRISSEY LOAN FUND  FOUND: One umbrella, engraved  er. MOREl Super kids, great food, friendly, fun I NO general coun·  FOR RENT  Do you know any of these turkeys??  Need a job for next year???  
MON.·FRI. 11:30·12:30  handle outside South Dining Hall.  selors. BOO-STAFF95  ADAM HICKS  Student Activities is now accepting  
NEXT TO INFO. DESK IN LaFORT.  Call 259·3267 and ask for Umbrella  BEAUTIFUL 4·bedroom house for  USA McDONALD  applications for 95·96 for:  
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Boy to identify.  NEED RIDE TO NORTH CAROL!·  rent. Prefer female roommates.  MKKENNEDY  LaFortune Building Managers  
NA FOR BREAK, PREFERRABL Y  $225 + util. Call Natalie 291·5466.  JERRY LAVIN  Stepan Center Managers  
$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS$$  GREENSBORO/WINSTON SALEM  MEGHAN McGRIFF  Information Desk Attendants  
Are you go1ng to read those things  LOST on TUES 2/28 REWARD!  AREA  HOMES FOR RENT  MELISSA KOLSKI  Gorch Games Room  
again? I think not. 2323·2342  CHARCOAL GREY Waterman  WILL HELP PAY FOR GAS AND  NEAR CAMPUS  CARMEN WALKER  Building Set Up Crew  
Pandora's Bks ND Ave & Howard  FOUNTAIN PEN. 21st Bday pre­ TOLLS  232-2595  KAREN KAPUSNAK  24 Hr. Lounge Monitors  
sent from family.  Call Matt at x3244  JEANINE WYNTON  Ballroom Monitors  
PLEASE call ANNE X4293  LIVE IN A GOOD NEIGHBOR·  CHARITY RIECK  Irish Express Workers  
Pregnant men. live ammunition,  Female Roomate · Spring Smster  HOOD FURNISHED HOMES  CRAIG PINZA  Office Assistants  
burnt toast and biblical word  FOUND: WOMAN'S RING IN  96. House 7 min walk from  NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT  LARA WALTERS  Applications in Student Activities,  
gamesllll Just SOME of the fun  DEBARTOLO. CALL 4·2954 TO  DeBartolo.Call Jeannnine @ 289­ SCHOOL YEAR IDEAL FOR 3-8  JEREMY "OTIS" DIXON  315 LaFortune.Deadline March 10.  
that will be had at the grand 'ole  IDENTIFY.  9420  STUDENTS 2773097  MOLLY McLAUGHLIN  
SOHPOMOREFOUR  KATE TELESCA  NEEDED-Ride to and from  
4 one·act plays performed and brought to you by the class of '97 TONIGHTIIIIIII Lafortune ballroom  WANTED  TENNIS JOBS-SUMMER BOYS CAMP·NORTHEAST-LOOK­ING FOR STAFF WITH GOOD  FOR SALE  JIM BOYLE OFELIA SOBALVARRO BRIAN ZELIZO  Pensacola,FL or anywhere close for Spring Break. Will help with costs. Call MATT x3895.  ...  
Bpm 2$ donation is asked  RUN YOUR OWN BUSINESS,  TENNIS BACKGROUND WHO  IBM386·25mhz,B0Mb Hd,4 MB  
GAIN VALUABLE EXPERIENCE  CAN TEACH CHILDREN TO PLAY  RAM,DOS 6.1 ,WIN  Then come see them perform their  Happy 21st Birthday SKIPPYII  
WHILE BUILDING YOUR  TENNIS. GOOD SALARY, ROOM  3.1 ,3.5"&5.25",Modem,soft·  hearts out in the SOPHOMORE  Hope you feel O.K. tommorrow  
RESUME. EARN UP TO $10,000  & BOARD, TRAVEL ALLOWANCE.  ware.$600 or best. Call Sean x0519  FOUR Ill 4 quick, fun one·acts  
ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAK­ (25 JOBS) HIGH DEMAND PROD·  CALL OR WRITE: CAMP WINADU.  or x3790.  acted and sponsered by the class  To the guy in the green rolfneck  
FAST, 35 MIN TO N.D. SPECIAL  UCT, IRRIGATION SALES AND  2255 GLADES RD., SUITE 406E.  of '97. March 6 and 7 at 8pm in  sweater who said hi to me in the  
"OBSERVER" RATE $50/$60.  INSTALLATION. BE A LEADER:  BOCA RATON, FL 33431 800·494­ Clarion Car Stereo-AM/FM/Cass  Lafortune Ballroom. 2$ donation  Brare last Thurs. I need to talk to ul  
FULL BREAKFAST. THE HOME­ VEHICLE REQUIRED CALL STU­ 6238. RECRUITER WILL BE ON  Detachable Face; High Power;  PLEASE meet me @ 8pm Tues by  
SPUN COUNTRY INN, NAPPA­ DENT SPRINKLERS AT 1-800·  CAMPUS 3/6·DOOLEY ROOM·  CD Changer Ready; Top of the  Hey you remember ....  the room where THE meeting was  
NEE, 219·773·2034.  265·7691  LAFORTUNE  Line; 1 yr old. $200. Call1·8817.  SMILE and be PROUD I  held. Lv msg if u can't make it.  

page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Monday March 6, 1995 

•Nttl 
Spartans drop Hoosiers Belfour, Hawks 
Associated Press 
EAST LANSING, Mich. 
Michigan State finally got a chance to do some­thing about its battle with Purdue for the Big Ten championship, and the lOth-ranked Spartans didn't let the opportunity slip away. 
But Sunday's 67-61 victory over Indiana wasn't easy. In fact, Michigan State coac~ Jud Heathcote compared it to a trip to the dentist. 
"After the game I told my team that when I open my mouth to each pull out a tooth, be~aus.~ that game was like going to the dentist, Heathcote said. 
"It seemed to us that during the eight days we were off Purdue won eight games. Actually, they won three while we were off but by winning to­day we still have our destiny in our hands." 
Shawn Respert scored 23 points, including four free throws in the last 30 seconds to help Michigan State move back into a tie for first place in the Big Ten. 
The Spartans (21-4) and Purdue are each 13-3 in the conference. Indiana fell to 9-7 in the Big Ten and 17-11 overall. 
Hoosiers coach Bob Knight was satisfied with his team's effort against Michigan State. 
"Anytime you play a game that you know is going to be tough and are in a position to win it, you have to feel pretty good about it," Knight said. 
Michigan State, which led 61-51 with 6:47 left in the game after a three-point play by Jon Garavaglia, managed only one more field goal the rest of the way. But Respert's four free throws and a key block by Jamie Feick on Alan Henderson's attempt for the tying basket kept the Spartans in the lead. . 
Henderson, who had 26 points and 13 rebounds, picked up a loose ball and scored on a layup with 1:32 left. He· was fouled and hit the free throw to cut Michigan State's lead to 63-61. 
The Spartans turned the ball over on their next possession. But Feick blocked Henderson's shot from inside the free throw line and Michigan State's Daimon Beathea got the rebound. 
"I think it was two teams playing hard," said Spartan guard Eric Snow. "When two good teams are playing hard, there will be things each team can't do and it's going to look a little ugly." 
•NBA 
Spurs streak now at eight 
Associated Press 
SAN ANTONIO 

David Robinson scored 31 points Sunday afternoon to lead the San Antonio Spurs to a 124­103 victory over the Houston Rockets, the eighth straight win for the Spurs. 
San Antonio. the NBA's hottest team, has won 11 con­secutive home games and 17 of its last 19 games and are 32-7 since Dennis Rodman returned to the team on Dec. 10. 
Sean Elliott scored 21 points, Avery Johnson provided 17 points and 10 assists and Chuck Pf'rson 16 points for San Antonio, which pulled within 1 1/2 games of Midwest Division­leading Utah. 
The Spurs took advantage of injuries to Houston starting for­wards Robert Horry and Carl Herrera to outrebound the Rockets, 53-32. Rodman led the ter, compared to 43 percent for way with 27, his seventh Houston. straight game with 20 rebounds Back-to-hack 3-point baskets and 14th in his last 20. by Pete Chilcutt pulled Houston 
Sam Cassell's 3-point shot within 34-31 with 9:05 left in brought Houston within 101-90 the second quarter. with 7:01 left. San Antonio then ran off the next five points on 
an Elliott 3-point shot and a Robinson slam to ice the vic­tory. 
Mike T. 1s 
Hakeem Olajuwon led the 

legal at last. Rockets with 25 points and Clyde Drexler added 22 points and a team-high eight re­bounds. Houston lost its fourth 
Go get 'em straight game nd i<; 6-6 since the trade to acqmre Drexler from Portland on Feb. 14. 
slugger! 
San Antonio closed the first quarter with a 12-4 spurt start­ed by five points from Elliott to take a 29-21 lead. The Spurs 
Love,
hit 55 percent in the first quar­

blank lame Ducks 
By MIKE NADEL 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
Another game against Anaheim, another shutout for Ed Belfour. 
"Eddie's unbelievable, on top of his game," teammate Joe Murphy said Sunday after the Chicago Blackhawks beat the Mighty Ducks 3-0 for Belfour's fourth shutout in seven career starts against Anaheim. "No question, he's the best in the game." 
Belfour has blanked the Ducks in both starts against them this year and is 6-1 with a 
1.43 goals-against average against them since they joined the NHL two years ago. 
"It's defmitely something you keep in the back of your mind going into the game," said Belfour, who leads the league with four shutouts and is sec­ond with 12 victories. "You feel comfortable when you know you're going to have a good game against them most of the time." 
His 27th career shutout was one of his easiest. Anaheim managed only 16 shots, includ­ing just three in the third pe-
Mom, Dad, Kelly & Tess 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 

The Hammes 
riod. 
"I think (Chicago coach Darryl) Sutter's got a thing that if we get a second shot, they have to do 100 push-ups or ·something," Anaheim's Garry 
Valk said. 
Belfour preserved his shutout 
at 4:30 of the third period with 
a glove save on Valk's close-in 
shot. His best save came just 
1:45 into the game, when he kicked out Tim Sweeney's goal­mouth backhander. 
Goalie Guy Hebert, who led the Ducks to an upset of Chicago when the teams met in Anaheim last week made 29 saves Sunday. But Hebert couldn't keep Roenick and Murphy from scoring power­play goals. 
At 4:09 of the first period, Gary Suter set up Roenick in front. Roenick's shot hit the post but Anaheim defenseman Robert Dirk, who had been trailing on the play, inadver­tently pushed the puck over the goal line. 
$1.46 per session or 
THREE MONTH UNLIMITED $.94 per session 
5804 Grape R:l., Mishawaka 
277-i'946 
9 lo 8 Sdl 9 10 G Sun I I 5 


NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
CHAMBER SINGERS 
Nancy Menk, Conductor present 
BRAVA! 
Music ofWomen Composers 
Friday, March 10, 8 p.m. Little Theatre 
Tickets$8"' This concert will be interpreted in American Sign Language 
*Discounts for campus community members, senior citizens, students and groups. Call or visit box office for details. Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, located in O'Laughlin 
.. 
Auditorium, open 9-5 Monday-Friday. Discover, .................. \. ...............
·~· 
' 'y»'N,•'o:•'o .,,.,.,yo•• ,,,._.,.., .. , 
'Yo'ooH YNo••••'o'......~.

Visa, MasterCard at 219/284-4626. 
··<;~:~~;;::··~_:::·:;;~:~·:·:·~~::~· ~:·~;·_:;~. ~:::::::: ....::,:;'.~~,.,....Jw.je;JlUflliTW.)··M ••,_.,....,.,.._.,.,;,._.,.,.,.,:o,:!o; 
'«"• :;,::-·..............:-:--...:;:::................::~~··· 

, M • • ... · 
:·1Jox·608..:..::__ ..... ....,.,..:;::.:..-,.y~~;..;;;;'"··-··,:;~,,,.. ··· ... -·-..:~:.::::Ndire1Jame;···"frc:--46556o/."",..... ­
Monday, March 6, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 

.'~ -~\ ~-~··..~-·~_·:. <:,·:·. ·~ .·· 
\..~;-,~:~ .,:~:;-.·; ·;:of: 
y~~~>-.:.:;...·' ·.··. :~. 
~-.. :. . . -~ . ' 
.. 
.·~:..··-.,: ··.:· ..·· ;: .':'I,:':~·; .. '' 
,.·' . t .. ~l . ~.... 
,, .... 1,.. 
·........ ;•:. ~ .· .-· 
...: . . 
.;.• ... 
. ,. 
... 
:.·' ' 
~~ ·~· 
.. ' 
'',.
' 
. .~. 
·-:, ··:. ,_~ ... 
., 
...... 

'· . ·.· ( 
• tACROSSE 
Tarheels topple Irish, 11-8 
By DAVE TREACY 
Sports Writer 
For the Notre Dame lacrosse team, there is good news and bad news. 
The good news is that the Irish played a close game against a top opponent on the road, losing 11-8 against 7th ranked North Carolina. 
The bad news is that the Irish lost their second game in a row, as many losses as they had all last season. While Notre Dame is staying in the game against top-ranked opponents, they cannot afford to keep losing. 
Tri-captain Randy Colley led the squad with two goals and three assists. The midfielder dished off to Will Sutton for the first score of the game, and connected himself for the game's second goal with an assist from Sutton. Then the Tarheels got on the board, and the Irish never led again. 
Freshman Alex Cade had his first start in goal for Notre Dame, and did well against a powerful Tarheel offense. Cade had 8 saves in the cage. Both teams had 19 shots on the day. 
Two other freshman had good performances for the Irish. Middie Jimmy Keenan found the net late in the second quarter off an assist from Brian Gilfillan for his first collegiate goal. Burke Hayes scored Notre Dame's final goal, also the first goal of his collegiate career. 
Sophomore Tim Kearney added two goals in the third quarter, and Sutton ended up with two goals and one assist. The Irish were shut out in the final quarter. 
North Carolina goalkeeper and co-captain Rocco D'Andraia tallied 11 saves on the day. Sophomore attacker Merrill Turnbull led all scorers with three goals and three dish­es for the Tarheels. 
While staying competitive 
with two top-twenty teams is 
encouraging, the squad needs 
to combine the offense shown 
against opening opponent Penn 
State with the defense dis­
played against the Tarheels to 
put a mark in the win column. 
Holding the NC offense to 11 
goals is a tremendous feat, but 
the offensive firepower needs 
to show some consistency. 
The Irish play again next 
Sunday on the road against the 
unranked University of 
University of Maryland­
Baltimore County . 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Women's Lacrosse -The Women's Club Lacrosse team defeated the University of Toledo on Saturday in Loftus Sports Complex with a score of 17-0. Congratulate all those who played . 
Wrestling • Attention ND wrestlers. Interested in reviv­ing wrestling here at Notre Dame. A group of students is trying to start a club on cam­pus. If you are intesrested please call Marcus or Andreww at 4-2230 and you will be sent details. 
Novice and Varsity Crew ­There will be a Spring Break today in 122 Hayes-Healy at 
8:00 pm. Bring your check­books. 
Climbing Wall Schedule ­The climbing wall is now open for use. The hours are Sundays at 2:00-S:OOpm and Tuesdays and Thursdays from 7:00·10:00pm. The climbing wall is located in the Hockne Memorial and anyone inter­ested in using it must com­plete an orientation session. For more info call RecSports at 1-6100. 
Challenge U aerobics ­There are still open spots in some step dasses as well as some other aerobics classes. These spaces are very limited by now so sign up now!! Stop by RecSports to register or call for more info at 1-5965. 
Ballet -There is still very limited , yes, not much, space available in HecSports Ballet. Classes meet Thursday from 7:30-8:30, and Saturday 1:30­
3:30. The cost is $35. and you must register at HecSports. Any questions. call them at 1­6100. 
Recycle The Observer 



page 16 
<.-Bengals 
continued from page 20 
if to say, what was supposed to happen, happened." 
For some it happened easy, for others only a bitter battle would suffice. The easy, as it seems it has always been, came for Jeff Goddard in the 170-pound finale. In his fourth consecutive final, Goddard breezed past junior Todd Murphy in unanimous fashion. The senior from Urbana, Ohio highlighted his third title with a body shot that prompted a standing eight count for Murphy.. 
"I was able to get inside on him a few times," Goddard said, also admitting that was the first eight count he had seen from a blow to an oppo­nent's body. 
The night's best fight was possibly the best in the last three years. 
Senior Robert Naticchia was expected to win a175-pound tussle with Chip Farrell. But the freshman from South Bend, fought inspired for the full six minutes, coming back from a knockdown, despite a cut on his nose, above his eye, and a honker spouting more than Stonehenge. 
N a ticchia would win the Routs' best fight (see related story) but not without changing his perspective on how a title is Parned. 
The most controversial fight 
rame  from  Hillegas  and  
Cabreros.  
The  split  decision  win  

prompted a smattering of boos from the crowd, after Cabreros had played the role of the aggressor most of the fight. 
"No doubt Butch hit me hard­er than I hit him," Hillegas said. 
"I was just trying to throw scoring punches. I did a lot of moving in the first two rounds and by the third I was exhaust­ed. I think it just came down to who had the most scoring punches." 
The favorites won all but two fights. 
Senior Chad Harrison upset sophomore Mike Mantey, a champion in 1994, while Andrew Dicello knocked off Greg Marks in 135-pound ac­tion. 
The heavyweight matchup between former football player Greg Stec and fellow senior Jason Svadeba lasted only as long as it took Stec to unravel his right arm. One punch, Svadeba on the canvas, and referee Tom Suddes declared these Bouts closed for safety's sake. 
The proceeds from the Bouts go to the Holy Cross Missions in Rangladesh. Figures were not a\·ailable but the attendance at all three rounds of the fights was up from 1994 totals. 
"I think as a whole this year's Bouts went exceptionally well," Mirk, the 150-pound runner-up said. 
"It was a nice way to end my senior year and a nice end for aII the seniors." 
Engagement Rings 
10%-15% OFF! Official Wholesale Price List! 

S.A. Peck&: Co. 
55 E. l'lluhln,ton, Chicago, IL 60602 For a hw32-Pap Color Callllo6 

ToU-Fnt (BOO) 922..()()9(} FAX (312) m-OUB lntemet Q#Qior at bttp: I!WJrrr.lti[MCk.COIItllti[Mclc 
The Observer • SPORTS 
130 Pounds Eric Garcia-Unan Dec.-Todd Bello 
135 Pounds 
Andy Dicello-Split Dec.-Greg Marks 
145 Pounds Dan Couri-RSC 1:12 Rd. 3-Ted Pagano 
150 Pounds 
Matt Kowalsky-Unan Dec.-Nate Mick 155 Pounds Chris Rosen-Unan Dec.-John Kmetz 
157 Pounds Eric Hillegas-Split Dec.-Butch Cabreros 
160 Pounds 
Michael Thompson-Unan Dec.-Dan Adams 165 Pounds John Christoforetti-Split Dec.-Pat Dolan 
170 Pounds Jeff Goddard-Unan Dec.-Todd Murphy 
175 Pounds Rob Naticchia-Unan Dec.-Chip Farrell 
185 Pounds Chad Harrison-Split Dec.-Mike Mantey 
195 Pounds Troy Phillips-Unan Dec.-Dave Baker 
-~--------~-----, 
Monday, March 6, 1995 


Tilles 
corm 
Dorm Titles Off-Campus 4 

The Observer/Rob Finch 
Flanner 2

Senior Chris Rosen prepares to unload on sophomore John 
Grace 2

Kmetz (left), while Greg Marks lands a right hand to the head of 
Carroll 1

junior Andrew Dicello (below). Rosen was able to capture his 
Fisher 1 

first Bengal Bouts title in the 155-pound division, while Marks 
Sorin 1 

fell to Dicello in 135. 
Stanford 1 


. ­
Monday, March 6, 1995 
at Montgomery Theater The meeting will last 20 minutes. Attendance Mandatory for new 
and old members 

The movies as they were meant to be: Classic films. Big screen. Bargain prices. 
Tuesday, March 7,1:30 and 7:30p.m. Marlon Brando Eva Marie Saint Karl Malden Lee J. Cobb 
On the Waterfront 
Wmner ofeight Academy Awards, including Best Picture, Best Actor (Brando ), Best Supporting Actress (Saint), Best Director (Elia Kazan) and Best Original Screenplay. This 1954 powerhouse presents an unflinching look at New York City's harbor unions. An unforgettable movie. 
$2 adults, $1 students 
. 

The Observer/Rob Finch 

page 17 
Awards 
continued from page 20 
ovation from the crowd.  
Worst Fight: A nosebleed by  
Dave Harris in his semifinal  
bout with Mike Mantey in the  
185-pound semifinal forced Dr.  
James Moriarity to stop the  
fight just :16 into the first  
round.  
Harris even congratulated  
Mantey on a line punch.  
Best Division: The 175­ 
pound division was the best of  
the bunch. Naticchia proved his  
staying power with his second  
title, while Farrell made a  
name for himself as a quality  
contender. With the addition of  
Pat Keaney, who fought well  
enough to advance to the semi­ 
finals, this division showed it  
had power and experience.  
Biggest Upset: In a tourna­ 
ment where nearly half of the  
No. 2 seeds fell in the semifi­ 
nals. the finest win was that of  
sophomore Ted Pagano, who  
knocked off junior Rick Rogers  
in the 145-pound division.  
Pagano, a first year fighter,  
scored a split decision over the  
third-year veteran.  
Biggest Disappointment:  
Mantey was the only boxer in  
the next three years that would  
have had a chance to become  
the eighth four-time champion.  
He received a bye in the first  
round, a near walkover in the  
semifinals, but could not take  
the title.  
Senior Chad Harrison pulled  
off the upset by scoring a unan­ 
imous decision over the sopho­ 
more in the finals. Best Boxer: There should be  ..  
no question in anyone's minds  
that Jeff Goddard, a three-time  
champion and four-year final­ 
ist, is the best boxer in this  
year's Bengal Bouts. The senior  
combines quickness, power,  
and a good strategy.  
Best Punch: Naticchia's right  
hand which floored Farrell  
drew the biggest groan from  
the crowd, but a right hook  
from Greg Stec in the heavy­ 
weight division really rang se­ 
nior Jason Svadeba's bell.  
Stec, a senior, landed the  
blow at the :29 mark in the  
first round, causing an early  
end to the much anticipated  
heavyweight final.  
Worst Punch: There are not  
too many candidates here.  
The crowd Saturday night  
erupted with boos when sopho­ 
more John Christoforetti land­ 
ed a shot after a break call,  
catching freshman Pat Dolan  
square on the chin.  
Tim Norton Award: This  
award is given to the boxer  
with the best tendency to  
bleed. This year, that award  ....  
goes to Farrell, whose cut over  
the bridge of his nose did not  
stop throughout any of his  
three bouts.  
An honorable mention goes  
to junior Jack MacLeod, whose  
face was caked with blood fol­ 
lowing his quarterfinal bout with senior Glen Manzano.  ...  
Dazed and Confused Award:  
A new award developed to suit  
the state that Svadeba was in  
following his fight with Stec.  
After dropping to the former  
Irish football player at the :29  
mark of the first round, the  ...  
senior could not find the corner  
of the ring after he finally  
struggled back to his feet.  
Svadeba had to ask other  
Bengal Bout members about  
the outcome of his own fight,  
thinking that it lasted three  
rounds.  


~ -----------~ --~­
~------pa--g-e-1-8 Monday March 6, 1995
l 
The Observer· SPORTS 

I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--------~~~~ 
~ • HOCKEY
I 
i ~M:!~A?n e~?.~me?,e~d?.i~~~e~n~e~~., 
Sporrs Wrirer 
The roller coaster ride contin­ues. 
The Notre Dame hockey team, having already experi­enced more than their share of highs and lows this season, took one step forward and then one step back in the final week­end of the regular season. 
Still savioring last weekend's upset victory over Michigan, the Irish held off a furious Illinois­Chicago rally on Friday night in a 5-2 victory at the Joyce Center but fell 2-1 to Western Michigan on Saturday in the season finale. 
"I think we worked hard this weekend and played pretty good in general, but things didn't bounce our way last night," said defenseman Justin Theel following Saturday's set­back. "We were just one or two bounces away from heading into the playoffs on a winning streak." 
Despite being outplayed for most of the game on Friday, Notre Dame sent the sellout crowd of 3,310 fans home happy with their fourth victory out of their last five games. 
The Irish jumped all over Illinois-Chicago in the first pe­riod, building a 2-0 lead before the game was 15 minutes old. Oefenseman Brian McCarthy found right wing Jeff Hassleman wide open streaking 
.' to the net, and Hassleman in turn, set up center John Rushin for his third goal of the season. 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
Classmate J.J. Brock broke out of his early slump against Washington as he went 3 of 6 and knocked in five runs on a pair of doubles. 
But the offensive leaders for Notre Dame continue to be ju­nior outfielders Rowan Richards and Ryan Topham. 
Richards hit a blistering .500 for the weekend, going 6 of 12 in Seattle. He drove in eight runs, including four RBI while going 3 of 6 with a home run and a double against Washington. 
"Ro had a big game for us Friday," Mainieri said. "He anrl Ryan are really hitting the ball well for us right now." 
Topham went 5 of 11 with four RBI. His most important nm batted in came against Washington State, as his lead­off homer in the second inning broke up a scoreless tie. 
The Irish pitching staff also rPdeemed itself after a rough lead to 2-0 with 5:14 to go in the opening period. Center Terry Lorenz, a major reason for the team's recent success, spotted left wing Lyle Andrusiak cutting across the Flames' net. Andrusiak subse­quently powered the puck past the outstretched glove of UIC goaltender Adam Lord for the easy score. 
Following an Illinois-Chicago goal, the Irish immediately struck back with 9:30 to go in the second period. Andrusiak and Lorenz teamed up again, this time setting up right wing Tim Harberts for his team lead­ing 19th goal of the season and a 3-1 lead. 
Despite trailing 3-1, the Flames weren't about to give up. Defenseman Bob Ghode cut the lead to 3-2 with 5:29 remaining in the first period. 
For the next 20 minutes, VIC dominated the game offen­sively, pounding shot after shot at Irish goaltender Matt Eisler. 
As has been the case over the last month of the season, Eisler was up to the challenge. The freshman goaltender saved 42 of 44 shots to frustrate the tir­ing UIC offense. 
The Irish defense, led by Jeremy Coe, Brian Welch, Justin Theel, and Ben Nelsen, fought hard the entire evening despite constant pressure in the final period. 
Flames coach Larry Pedrie pulled his goalie during the third period in an attempt to tie the game. The Irish took defenseman Davide Dal Grande and center Jay Matushak regis­tered long range scores to secure the 5-2 victory. 
"It wasn't pretty, but we needed to win a game like this," said head coach Ric Schafer. "Sometimes you need to be lucky to win." 
Against Western Michigan on Saturday, the Irish once again struggled at the offensive end. However, this time they paid the price. 
Theel's goal early in the third period was the lone bright spot for the Irish offense. Defensively, Eisler and the err­tire unit enjoyed another strong game, but it's tough to win with only20shotsongoal. 


weekend in California. Sophomore right-hander Darin Schmalz had one of the strongest outings, going eight and a third innings in the win Saturday over Washington State. Schmalz gave up four hits, one earned run and struck out six in picking up his first win of the season. 
Senior Tim Kraus relieved Schmalz to get his first save of the year against the Cougars. 
Freshman Christian Parker earned his first collegiate win Sunday against Nevada. In five innings he limited the Wolfpack to three earned runs. Larry Mobs went three innings to get the save. 
Four pitchers combined to beat Washington on Friday. Starter Craig Allen lasted four and a third innings. Mike Balicki earned the win in relief, giving up three earned runs in three and two-thirds innings. 
"We've won four games in a row now," said Mainieri. "Its great to see the team coming together so well this early in the season." 
' .. 

MARCH 29 BOWLING GREEN 4:00p.m. 30 CINCINNATI 4:00p.m. APRIL
Satisfy ahungry team. 1 BUTLER (2) 12:00 p.m. 2 BUTLER (2) 12:00 p.m. 4 INDIANA STATE 4:00p.m. 5 CHICAGO STATE 7:00p.m. 7 WISC.-MILWAUKEE 5:00p.m. 8 WISC.-MILWAUKEE (2) 12:00 p.m. 9 WISC.-MILWAUKEE 12:00 p.m. 11 ILLINOIS 5:00p.m. 15 DETROIT (2) 12:00 p.m. 18 DUQUESNE (2) 5:00p.m. 19 PURDUE 
... 
7:00p.m.

SUBWAY's Giant Party Subs &Platters are the fresh, delicious change of taste from 20 VALPARAISO 7:00p.m. 
22 ILLINOIS-CHICAGO (2) 12:00 p.m.
pizza, chicken and burgers. We pile lots of fresh-sliced deli meats onto fresh bread 
23 ILLINOIS-CHICAGO (2) 12:00 p.m.
baked right in our store. Next we add cheese, plus your choice of fresh toppings and 25 ALABAMA 7:00p.m. 
26 ALABAMA 5:00p.m.
tasty condiments. The result is ahearty 
27 EASTERN ILLINOIS 5:00p.m.
sandwich that will satisfy any hungry team. MAY 
5 NORTHEASTERN ILLINOIS 7:00p.m. 

--~--------------------­
page 19

Monday, March 6, 1995 The Observer • TODAY 
MIRRORLAND Ot.IT ON A FuLL H€ $TRiKfS AGAitJ •· • 
Af'.ID AG/'IiN ••• 111€ NA!<€D ~ IC.KO W/'1!> SCARlrJG
poARRR 
PEoPLE. YeSTeRDAY NiGHT Tro! .J>; D YO() RfAD THAT ?
EE"Et j 
HUY NGOC PHAN CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 

BILL WA TIERSON

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
.--------------, 
SCl~E\It<\~S fill. Tl-\1>.T 
FELI~E. DIG!'\ 11'1 IS JUST 
100 ~\J(I-\ 10 I<E.EP UP. 

rjp! I 
~i 



L-----------~~----------~~'----------~L-----------~~~~1~·----------~ 
DILBERT 
CAN YOU EXPLMN ~ 
W\-\Y YOU'RE A WEEK ~ 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  
5 Welcome giver?  L-........,_~­ 
6 Bruin Bobby  
1 Accomplishes  31 Firecracker  47 Canopus's  56 Accompanying  
a Corrects  paths  constellation  57 Coloratura's  
9Afterward  32 Obsolescent  46 Minor despot  piece  
"'"""~+-1  10 Landscaping  VCR format  50 Affix, as a  sa Cut  
item  button 53 Della of pop  60 Turkish honcho  
54 Stews  63 Shoe part  
55 "Auld Lang  64 Printers'  
"  measures  

37 Fawn or doe 

Get answers to any three clues 
31 "This foolishness 

by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
must-once!" 

5656 (75e each minute).
44 Kind of cake 

Better Late Than Never • •• 
THE 1995 ICEBERG DEBATES ARE COMING 
The Iceberg Debates is an undergrad debate series focusing on campus, national, and global issues. 
If you are interested in competing contact your hall president. If you would like to help organize the debates, or you're a faculty member or grad student and would like to be a judge, call John Emery at 288,9174 
Captain's meeting on Monday, March 6 at 9 p.m. in the Student Government office-2nd floor LaFortune 
scorr ADAMS 

YOUR POOR LE.ADE.f\~1-\IP 
\-\1\5 DF\AINED fV\E OF 
THE ENTHU5IA5M THAT 15 NECE.5SARY TO 5UCC.E.E.D. 5UT IT:S NOT 
COI"\PLE.TE.LY YOUR 
FI\ULT 
) 

56 Interviewer Barbara 59 Restaurant 81 Levin who wrote 1-,...-4-+--+--+-­"Deathtrap" 82 "Of Thee I Sing" role 85 Kind of horn 
Hit's enough to bring a tear to the eye 
67 Swiftness 860wned 69 Neck parts 10 Steps on the 
evolutionary 
ladder 
DOWN 
2 Minotaur's 
home 3 Short jacket 4 Poet Millay 
• 

"Excuse me, folks, can we squeeze by?" 
• OF INTEREST 
A Dlsmas House Information Meeting will be held on Monday, March 6. at the Center for Social Concerns at 6:00 p.m. This meeting is for all students interested in being a part of the Dismas Program. Pizza will be served. 
"Company Job Training and Employee Careers: Making the Connection" will be the topic of a talk given by David Knoke of the University of Minnesota. The talk will he held at 4:15 p.m. in 122 Hayes-Healy. A recep­tion will follow. 
"Working for Uncle Sam" is the focus of a work­shop being held today from 4:00 to 5:00 in the Faculty Lounge of the Hesburgh Library. This workshop will teach you how to locate and access job opportunities effectively using new government procedures as well as how to work in government agencies without being employed by the government. 
"Public Sector Enterprises and India's Macroeconomic Performance -A Reappraisal" is the topic of a lecture given by R. Nagaraj of Princeton University and the Indira Gandhi Institute of Development Research. The lecture will be held at 
12:45 p.m. today in room C-103 of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
•MENU  
Notre Dame  
NORTH Chicken Fajita Pizza Grilled Cheese Chinese-Style Pork Roast  SOUTH Canadian Cheese Soup Meatloaf Whipped Potatoes  
Saint Mary,s  

Call 284-5400 for the dinner menu. 
HAVE SOMETHING TO SAY? USE THE OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
~E~LND 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 This might be a lot 
5 Paradigm 10 Sprite 13 Word after long 
or dog 14 Fragrance 15 Compete 16 Sydney of "The 
Maltese Falcon" 18 Lady of Eden 19Added too 
many pounds 20 Displayed 
contempt 22 Snick's partner 23 Burglarize 26Bummer 27 Lost Ark 
seekers? 
0 
5CHEDULE? Ul: ::1 
c 
0 
c 
.... 
.... 
0 
0 
Ul 
30 Snatch 33 Where to hang one's hat 36 "Carmen" or "Aida" 37 Moline 
manufacturer 38 Alluring woman 40 Despondent 41 Upright 
42 Goodnight lass 43 Steps over a fence 45 Hush-hush 
govt. org. 46 Gardener's item 47-Palace 49 Cape Canaveral 
org. 51 Hardly bold 52 Sandy's barks 

r 
• 
SPORTS 
page 20 Monday, March 6, 1995 


Seniors star in Bengal Bouts Finals 
Veterans, captains capture their elusive first titles 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN so passionately coveted. 
Sports Editor "I think there was a sense of completion for all of us," Eric "Finally," was the word Hillegas, the winner over 
most often voiced during the Butch Cabreros at 157 said. closing moments of "Feels great, I look at this as Saturday's 65th annual almost the culmination of my Bengal Mission Bouts. athletic career. It's nice to 
"Finally," mouthed Michael just compete in the Bouts but Thompson after his unani­I feel like all the effort and mous decision win over Dan work I put in finally paid off. Adams in the 160-pound final. For all of us, this was like the 
The same simplistic gesture icing on the cake." 
each boxer in the three fights The night was icing for preceding Thompson's made eleven seniors. Of the thirteen to the crowd at the Joyce ACC fights, final year competitorsArena. triumphed in all but two 
During a perfect stretch be­
bouts. ginning with Matt Kowalsky's "All of us got together after win over Nate Mick in the the Bouts and you could just150-pound division and end­tell," Chris Rosen, the 155­
ing with Thompson's easy 
pound winner said. decision. four senior boxers "We just looked at each 
with at least three years of other all night and smiled as Bengal Bouts in the books, finally earned the title they all see BEN GALS/ page 16 
By MIKE NORBUT tively countered by Farrell. comeback. 
Associate Sports Editor The freshman seemed to take Midway through the third a couple of shots before round, a flurry from Naticchia Along with all of the winners delivering a few of his own. gave the freshman another 
in each weight division, there 
The turning point of the fight eight count, and the fight had are several individual awards came in the second round, to be stopped because of for the 65th Bengal Mission when a Naticchia right sent Farrell's excessive bleeding. Bouts: the freshman to the canvas. Despite the blood flow, 
Best Fight: The finals of the The crowd stood up with a Farrell was allowed to contin­175-pound weight division gasp as Farrell's legs collapsed ue, much to the enjoyment of won this one easily. Senior beneath him, forcing referee the crowd. The last minute of Rob Naticchia was victorious Tom Suddes to give him a the fight was a back-and-forth 
on a unanimous decision over standing eight count. slugfest, with both boxers freshman Chip Farrell, but it But as soon as the fight was clearly exhausted and trying to was not a bout that was decid­
restarted, Farrell came out knock the other down. ed until his hand was raised. 
swinging, throwing two jabs It was the only fight of the The bout was distinguish­and a hook to send the senior night that received a standingable by a number of charges 
to the ropes. The crowd by the senior that were effec­
roared in appreciation for the 
see AWARDS/ page 17 






Irish sweep Classic Tourney 
Rr MEGAN McGRATH had been ranked 17th in the nation. Sports Writer "It was great to see us up to the challenge of playing well against a tough team like Nevada." 
Baseball purists bemoan such stadiums as said head coach Paul Mainieri. SPattle's Kingdom, complaining that indoor base­"Friday night we hit well, but our pitchershall ruins the sanctity of the game. 
struggled, and Saturday we had some greatBut you won't hear members of the Notre 
pitching but not many runs. Sunday it all came Dame baseball team adding to the chorus of crit­
together in the type of total team effort it takes to irism, especially after they swept three games in 
beat a good team." thP College Baseball Classic in the Loftus-like 
Against the Wolfpack, the Irish were led by a rnnfines of the Kingdome this weekend. 
resurgent Scott Sollman. The sophomore started 
Friday, the Irish (4-2) opened the tournament the season slowly, batting under .200 last week­"ith a bang, pounding out 23 hits in a 21-10 vic­end in Anaheim. But in the Northwest, Sollman tory over host Washington. Saturday saw a 
went 6 of 13, including a 4 of 5 performancerhnnge of pace, as Notre Dame survived a pitch­
Sunday. Sollman knocked in three runs in the Prs' duel with Washington State en route to a 2-1 
tournament with a triple and a double. win. The Irish closed the tournament Sunday with a convincing 11-4 win over Nevada, who see IRISH/ page 18 
The Observer/ Eric Ruethling Ryan Topham went 5 of 11 with four RBI as the Irish swept all competi­tion this past weekend. 

of note.
Tarheels too much for Irish 
Check tomorrow's Observer for 
The Lacrosse team lost to 
results ofweekend men's and
North Carolina over the weekend, 11-8 
' . . 

womens tennts action
see page 15 




