
[iqcr 5! 
Monday, November 13 • Vol. XXVII No. 55 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 


Ice blamed for weekend crash 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
Assocoate News Editor 
A Notre Dame senior was in tlw intensive care unit at St. Joseph Medical Center last night. onH day aftHr the car she was riding in was involved in a weather-related accident on Edison Hoad. 
Amanda Abdo and four other seniors wnrc passengers in a black llonda Passport driven by Phil Langer. also a senior. at about 10 p.m. Saturday night when thH car hit a patch of ice on Edison Hoad near Browne LlliHl. The vehicle swerved across the centnr line into the lane of oncoming traffic, where it was hit on its right side near the rear door by a white car. 

Upon impact, the rear right window shattered and the door was ripped off. Ken Heckel, a passenger in the rear, was ejected from the car and landed on the road. He was taken to St. Joseph Medical Center, where he was treated and kept overnight for observation, ac­cording to hospital personnel. He was discharged from the hospital yesterday. 
South Bend Police, respond­ing to the accident, helped to extricate the other three pas­sengers from the rear. Upon discovering that Abdo could not feel anything below her neck, authorities decided to prevent the risk of further injury by prying off the roof of the vehicle and then lifting her out of the car with the use of a back­board. 
Abdo was trapped in the ear for at least half an hour while authorities worked to remove the roof of the car. She was taken to St. Joseph Medical Center with a body temperature of 91 degrees. 
A Mass offered for Abdo, an off-campus resident who for­merly resided in Siegfried Hall, will be held in Siegfried's chapel today at 5 p.m. 
see CRASH I page 4 

Two options given by student government 
By MAUREEN HURLEY Saint Mary's News Editor 
Since 1930, football teams have been known to enter Notre Dame Stadium in fear of the unified standing mass of students in blue and gold. The Notre Dame Student Govern­ment is working to ensure this student section remains intact after the stadium expands up-

Lending a Helping Hand 
Saint Mary's junior Charity Bocan and other student volunteers served at the Logan Center during youth recreation this past Friday. 


Location of student seating after expansion undecided 
ward. 
In a 50 million dollar project. the University plans to extend the stadium upward and out­ward in an attempt to bring stadium capacity to 80,990, a 22, 915 increase. The place­ment of the student section re­mains in limbo. 
Student Government released a report to Athletic Director Michael Wadsworth to ensure that the student section unity is maintained. 
"The student section is a ma­jor part of the experience of the Notre Dame students," said 
see EXPANSION I page 4 


Security warns about stranger in parking lots 
By JAMIE HEISLER 
Assistant News Editor 
Notre Dame Security is investigating a report of students being approached and asked for money under false pretenses. The report was filed by a student who was approached by a black male at 9:50 a.m. on the morning of Nov. 5 in the C-2 parking lot. 
According to Chuck Hurley. assistant director of University Security, the man approached the student, claiming that he had locked his keys in his car and stated that he needed another 20 dollars to pay Security the 35 dollar fee it charged to get into the car. The student gave the man 20 dollars and did not see him again. 
Security has also received an unofficial report of a similar occurrence involving another stu­dent being approached and. asked for money. On the second occasion, a student was reportedly approached by a man, claimed that he needed money to pay Security to jump start his car. He then asked the student for an unknown amount of money in order to pay Security. 
In both cases the man claimed that Security charges a fee to assist with automotive prob­lems, but according to Hurley this is untrue. "As a service we unlock and jump-start cars for visi­tors as well as those within the Notre Dame and 
see STRANGER/ page 4 

To avert shutdown, GOP wants Clinton's approval 
By ALAN FRAM good progress" in completing the bills. Associated Press That sentiment was echoed by House Speaker Newt Gingrich, R-Ga. Appearing on NBC's "Meet Shutting down WASHINGTON the Press," he called for "a letter from the presi­How agovernment shutdown would affect U.S. federal services and agencies:
The Clinton administration refused Sunday to dent that said, 'I accept in principle getting to a commit to a seven-year balanced budget as the balanced budget in seven years, not the details, 
SF:RYICES AFFECT ED SER\'ICES
Hepubliean price for averting the twin crises this but in principle."' 
LMHECTEI>

week of a partial federal shutdown and a halt to White House chief of staff Leon Panetta wasted 
• National parks and the S)J.· . . 
government borrowing. little time in turning them down. Smithsonian museums 
In what amounted to a day of broadeast budget "That cannot be part and parcel of an agree­would close. So would • • Post offices, criminal bargaining, leadnrs swapped conditions for com­ment" on the two short-term bills, he declared on the National Zoo. ........ . investigations, border pleting a pair of bills allowing the government to CBS' "Face the Nation," though he didn't rule control and r···:··: --· 
• No new food stamps would be inspections, .. . _ •
out discussing it as part of a long-range budget­issued. 
federal · , • = 

balancing deal. Clinton would eliminate the
• see FLINCH, page 4 
• New money for food prisons, -.. -_, ....
deficit in nine years, but has never definitively 
packages for women, medical care at eonlmue borrowmg and spendmg money, which rejected a seven-year goal. 1nfants and children veterans' hospitals and l'rosidnnt Clinton has thmatened to veto. White House press secretary Mike McCurry would not be available. Medicare. Federal spending authority expires at midnight said late Sunday afternoon that 
• Environmental regulation,
Monday and failure to extend it will force nearly Clinton desired an Oval Office meeting with • Social Security recipients
enforcement, research and grant would
half tlw fndnral work foree to go home Tuesday congressional leaders Monday to overcome the programs would cease. 
rec~ive

morning and eurtail government services. impasse. But he issued a condition: Republicans 
the1r

Borrowing authority also lapses this week. which must first erase a provision from the temporary • Rural development and ~~ 
farm credit programs 
checks,
muld rattle linandal markets. spending bill boosting monthly Medicare premi­
would shut down. but field offices would be 
Snnate Majority Leader Bob Dole, H-Kan., went ums in January, rather than letting them fall as understaffed. on ABC's "This Week With David Brinkley" and under current law. • No veterans compensation benefit said, "If the president would agree to a balanced Gingrich defended the higher premiums, saying checks would be mailed out. budget in seven years, then we could make very 
see BUDGET I page 4 AP/Tracia Tso 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Monday, November 13, 1995 



• INSIDE COLUMN 




So long, 
old 

friend 
This was supposed to be a funny column about Dan Cichalski some family friends who Assistant Accent Editor came out in place of my parents for the Navy game. This was sup­posed to be a column about "Uncle" Paul and his crazy antics that make him so amusing to be around. He'll just have to wait. 
It's just too hard to be funny when you lose something close to you, something so close that it haunts your mind for days, something so significant that you remember exactly where you were when you heard the news. I am, of course, speaking of the little para­graph just to the right of this very column in Friday's edition of The Observer that relayed the news: "Calvin and Hobbes, the terrible tyke and his sidekick tiger, will be retired from the funny pages on Dec. 31." 
Those who know me well are aware that there are some things that I admire as much as Ross longs for Rachel, some things that I can never get tired of no matter how much I am exposed to them. Calvin and Hobbes, as you can probably tell, top the list. As I read those words in North Dining Hall (which didn't help the situation any), my heart sank clear through to my toes, my throat tight­ened, and the tears formed in my eyes. OK, not the tears. My jaw dropped to the table and I just stared at the page in disbelief. How could Bill Watterson do such a thing? It seems like only yesterday that I opened the newspaper and saw that knee high spike haired kid and his stuffed tiger for the first time, and now he's being taken away from me. So soon. So young. So tragic. 
A neighbor of mine who happened to be with me Friday afternoon tried to defend Watterson's move by suggesting that the plots were getting "kind of old." Perhaps they were, but Calvin disciples never got tired of Spaceman Spiff, Calvinball, Susie, his encounters with aliens, Rosalyn the babysit­ter, his attempts to outsmart Santa, Moe the bully, and his unique outlook on life. 
Who can ever forget the lessons Calvin taught us? "Never argue with a six-year-old who shaves," "Things are never quite as scary when you've got a best friend," "Trusting parents can be hazardous to your health," and the joy of Saturday morning car­toons-"This is what entertainment is all about... idiots, explosives, and falling anvils." Words to live by. 
Perhaps some good will come out of this. Watterson is quoted as saying, "I believe I've done what I can do within the constraints of daily deadlines and small panels. I am eager to work at a more thoughtful pace, with fewer artistic compromises." That sounds like he's ready to move on to bigger and bet­ter things, to try other forms of cartoon expression, to join the likes of Charles Schultz and Jim Davis-Bill Watterson, we can only hope, is ready to bring Calvin and Hobbes to life. Maybe this time next year we will be awaiting the first Calvin and Hobbes Christmas Special. Or possibly we will have just watched their first Halloween show. Better yet, how about a contract with FOX TV? "The Simpsons" and "Calvin and Hobbes," every Sunday. It would be cartoon ecstasy. 
Less than a year after the passing of "The 
Far Side," we are caught off guard with this 
news. We've become too secure. We tend to 
think that cartoons can live forever. We take 
them for granted. This just goes to show 
that, indeed, nothing lasts forever and you 
never know what you've got until it's gone. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• Wmu.o AT A. GlA.ttCE 

Kevorkian's 'Suicide Machine' used in most recent death 
Supplied by 
patient 

DETROIT.-----------------------------------------­Dr. Jack Kevorkian supplied his "suicide How Kevorkian's Suicid machine" for the first time in four years for the Machl·ne Works 
m~nox_ide as a backup. . . .. . .. . 

The Apparatus allows the patient to inject 
This. ~as a pure SUICide, . he said. This 

drug intO their OWn SyStem and inhale the 
woman mJected the drugs knowmgly. She turned 
b "d b k 
on the machine herself." 

car On monOXI e as a ac Up. 
Clinton to veto welfare bill 

WASHINGTON 
The welfare reform bill now taking shape in Congress has gone beyond what is acceptable to the administra­tion and President Clinton will veto it unless it is changed, White House Chief of Staff Leon Panetta said Sunday. "They are cutting school lunches, they are cutting child care and that is unacceptable," Panetta said on CBS' 


"Face the Nation." "He would veto what they are cur­rently working on in the conference." Previously Clinton has said he could sign the Senate version of the bill, which eased some of the tough language in the House bill about depriving payments to teen-age mothers and cut­ting off further payments to welfare mothers who have additional children. House and Senate negotiators are now working out final details of their compromise plan. It reduce spending on welfare by $81.5 billion over the next seven years, up from the $65 billion envisioned in the Senate bill and down from $90 billion in the House bill. The plan requires welfare recipients to work after two years and cuts off their benefits after five. Still unre­solved are the issues of turning over federal food stamp and school lunch programs to the states as block grants and whether to end cash payments to teen-age mothers. 
Trial begins in death of Jordan's dad 
LUMBERTON, N.C. 
He calls himself Lord D. A.A.S. U'allah now, but prose­cutors still know him as Daniel Andre Green. He is the young man charged with killing Michael Jordan's father, and his capital murder trial is scheduled to begin Monday. The trial promises to be long and arduous, with jury selection expected to take up to a month. Prosecutors have summoned two jury pools of 500 each to find people with no opinion of the highly publicized case. Michael Jordan, whose Chicago Bulls play Tuesday in Orlando, is not expected to attend. Prosecutors are seeking the death penalty for Green, who turns 21 this month. The defendant has converted to Islam and changed his name, but court documents continue to refer to him as Green. "I just didn't kill the man." 

Monday, Nov. 13 AccuWeather" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Monday, Nov. 13. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

White House had Whitewater papers 
WASHINGTON 
Early in the Whitewater affair, a White House lawyer obtained confidential documents from a key facet of the investigation, hastily returning them after the Justice De­partment launched a probe to determine how presiden­tial aides used the material. For five or six days in mid­November 1993, then-Associate White House Counsel Neil Eggleston had a report that detailed a series of de­faulted federally backed loans by David Hale, a Little Rock judge who was emerging as a central figure in Whitewater. The report by the Small Business Administration triggered a criminal investigation of Hale, who was indicted just two months before the White House obtained the information from the SBA, according to documents reviewed by The Associated Press. At the time, Hale was alleging publicly that he had been pres­sured in 1986 by Clinton, then the Arkansas governor, to make an improper SBA-guaranteed loan of $300,000 to the Clintons' Whitewater partners. The loan, which was never repaid, is at the heart of Whitewater prosecutor Kenneth Starr's criminal investigation. Hale has since pleaded guilty to federal charges, and is Starr's most important cooperating witness. A White House source said Sunday that Eggleston's boss, counsel Bernard Nussbaum, started Eggleston down the road to getting the documents. 
Man wounds himself in genitals 
BRIDGEPORT, Conn. 
An 18-year-old man accidentally shot himself in the genitals when he tried to show his girlfriend the sawed­off shotgun in his pants. Kevin Hall was treated at a hospital Friday for a cut to his penis and powder burns on the inside of his thigh. Police then arrested him on several charges, including possession of a sawed-ofT shot­gun. Police were called to the scene after someone reported a shooting on a street corner. When they arrived, they found Hall lying on the ground clutching his groin. His pants, which had a large hole, were still smok­ing. Hall told police he was the victim of a drive-by shoot­ing. But his girlfriend said Hall was showing her the gun he had in his pants when the weapon went ofT. The gun was found in some nearby bushes, police said. 
•• ~t..;of.J;J_,_J.;:f<"!4.~ .·.~;....~._~...;&.~.,.~ 

Can be obtained legally without 
~~~~c~l licens~ ..~.. 
Can be obtained legally without medical license 
......;,~~~..,· ....... __ ;,. .• ·....... , __ ""·"'"'----.J;.. ..~ .i..a.:.:.,...•..-......(&' 
death of a California woman who had suffered from breast cancer, his attorney said Sunday. 
Kevorkian has acknowledged attending 26 deaths since 1990, and is awaiting trial in two of those deaths. In two of the first thr~e deaths, Kevorkian supplied an apparatus that allowed the patients to inject a sedative and a heart-stopping chemical into their own veins. 
Until Wednesday's death of Patricia Cashman, however, most people who died in Kevorkian's presence had breathed carbon monoxide. 
Kevorkian stopped supplying the so-called sui­cide machine after Michigan authorities lifted his medical license, blocking his access to sedatives. 
Kevorkian was able to supply the machine again this time because Cashman had saved up a quantity of the pain-killer Seconal, attorney Geoffrey Fieger said. 
The machine allowed Cashman, 58, of San Marcos, Calif., to inject herself with Seconal, fol­lowed by the heart-stopping drug potassium chlo­ride, he said. He said she also inhaled carbon 

A I 
ppara US: Sedative 
*the drug Seconal 
Heart-stopping chemical 
*potassium chloride 
Inhale carbon monoxide as a backup 
'~ _____.,,.~·· · ·· ~-----"-·' · 

News Viewpoint Kristi Kolski Mike O'Hara Bill Connolly Production 
Sports Jana Bruder Rafael Gonzales Kira Hutchinson Dave Bradley Lab Tech Graphics Tom Johannesen Tom Roland 
Katie Kroener 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday cxcepl during exam and vacarion periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
FRONTS: 
....,......... .............. ....,.-...... 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 

C 1995 AccuWeather, Inc. 
H·""i_ B [Sl (I!] 0 t2J El {) ~ U 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
V~aAssoclafsctPIBSS 
Atlanta  46  38  Dallas  70  40  New Orleans 65  45  
Baltimore  48  40  Denver  65  33  New Vorl<  48  42  
Boston  46  35  Los Angeles 7 4  59  Philadelphia 51  41  
Chicago  34  22  Miami  75  65  Phoenix  84  59  
Columbus  36  31  Minneapolis  31  24  St. Louis  38  27  

....------_..------~---------------------------------------­


CAMPUSES 
Monday November 13, 1995 page 3 

Life at ND and beyond: A look at what to do 
By GILLIAN BRADY together with my friends and given weekend. ''I'm pre-med, get a fake 10," says freshman campus." News Writer have a few beers." so I really have to study week­Dina Brick. Many students Though leaving campus is a Other students choose not to ends," remarks junior Mike· echoed this thought, claiming a common solution to the social 
It's Friday afternoon. Chern party as much as others. "I Egger. fake ID is the key to a success­erisis, most students agree that lab is over and the weekend think a lot of people get the After having their fill of the ful social life. One junior noted, the city of South Bend fails to stretehes before you in class­impression that everyone at on-campus social life many stu­"Having a fake is very impor­offer students a wide variety of fretl glory. As you nee from Notre Dame parties, but that's dents venture off-campus in tant.. Bridget's is a mecca of social options. DeBartolo, rejoieing in your not really true," said sopho­search of new social horizons. South Bend for the sub-21 "Just don't go there," said freedom, you suddenly pause in more Katie McCarthy. "If you "Your social life is what you crowd." sophomore Kathryn Hichdale mid-flight as it occurs to you: don't want to party you can make it.. ..but you have to get Not everyone thinks having a referring to South Bend. But What am I going to do this always find people to hang out off-campus." asserts sopho­fake ID is necessary. senior Tracy Allega gave the weekend? with." more Tim Smith. Sophomore Dan Ventrelli city some credit. "There are 
This question may not always Though most students are "Freshman year you're pretty asserts, "There's really no need good restaurants there and bn easy to answer. When asked slow to admit it. studying can much stuek on-campus. Then for a fake. You can always get once you're a senior there are about the social life at Notre consume a large portion of any you become a sophomore and free refreshments at parties on-bars and more things to do." 
It's not all Greek to the01 ... Pledging, rushing, parties Socializing without frats dominate campus living 
By KELLYMOORE The college has also tried to bring the By RUSSELL WILLIAMS ticipates in another round of social func­News Writer social scene back to campus by building News Writer tions with the members of each organiza­
a few on-campus bars. But Maher still tion. At the end of the process, the candi­
thinks that the Catholic aspect of the Fraternities and sororities and on­date will get a bid from the organiza­
Do you ever feel left out when you get school tames down what happens on campus bars are concepts which most tions that want him or her as a member. back together with your friends from campus. "They are strict with beer at Notre Dame students are unable to like Notre Dame, Villanova has single­high school and they all talk about the parties. HA's write up underage relate. But for thousands of college stu­sex dorms and parietals. A few dorms sororities and fraternities at their col­drinkers." Maher says. dents throughout the nation, these activi­went co-ed by floor recently, but pari­leges? It's hard to participate in a con­Although Hice University is only six ties are an integral part of their lives. etals still separate men and women. versation that involves a foreign lan­miles from downtown Houston, its social Socializing at Cornell University, out­Many students in their junior and guage that is not an integral part of your life. like Notre Dame's, is campus orient­side Ithaca, Ny. usually takes place off­senior year move off-campus, or live in sodal life. Delta and theta were just ed. campps. Students at Cornell are only coed, university-owned apartments. symbols you learned in physics class, but Hice has eight dorms which are guaranteed housing for one-year, so Students at Colgate University in somehow they mean so much more to called residential colleges and students most sophomores move off-campus. Hamilton, Ny, also have a Greek system. your friends. have parties in these colleges. At regis­Many students live in Greek houses, but But many students think living in a fra­
Well there is no need to fear. Notre tered parties kegs are allowed in a com­others live in houses or apartments in ternity or sorority house is not healthy for Dame students are not the only college mon area in the dorm, but only students "College Town." gender relations on campus. students in the nation who don't know who are of-age can drink. Students At Cornell, there are 13 sororities and "Living in a fraternity or sorority is not what type of guys join Pi Kappa Phi. also hold unregistered parties in their over 50 fraternities. Freshman are eligi­as healthy for gender relations as living Many other colleges do not have Greek rooms, but they cannot bring any alcohol ble to rush or pledge for their favorite side by side with a member of the oppo­lit'll. Studtmts at Providence College in into the hallways. Greek organization after first semester. site sex," said Kalee Thompson, a stu­Hhode Island and Hice University in "It's nice to have everything so con­Some students believe that stronger dent at Colgate. Texas may not go to fraternity parties. tained on campus because parties are bonds are built while living in a sorority Most colleges with a big bar scene and but that doesn't mean they don't know easy to find and always close by." said or fraternity. Greek system along with other social op­how to have a good time. Chris Huehl, a sophomore at Hice. "Many students find that closer rela­tions offer more social events than Notre 
OIT-campus bars are a big part of the Although the social life at Rice usually tionships develop while living in a sorori­Dame. But, one major source of social­sodal seene on the Providence College involves alcohol people will go off-cam­ty. It also gives a person a sense of ization for students at colleges with fra­city eampus. pus to restaurants, movies, and plays if belonging and identity," said Cornell ternities or sororities are formals and 
"There are not many parties on-earn­they want a break from the partying sophomore Phoebe Furey. "date dances," much like our SYH's and pus, so people tend to go tho bars sur­scene. But "Most people who don't drink In addition to the Greek houses, parties formals. rounding the campus, usually starting seem comfortable with it probably or bars in "College Town" are popular Sororities and fraternities usually hold Wednesday night until Saturday," said because they are around it so much," hang-outs at Cornell. These places pro­one formal and "date dance" each senior Sarah Maher from Providence. adds Huehl vide an alternative to the often repetitive semester. 
Like Notre Dame, Providence is a Both Providence College and Rice hold Greek party scene, said Furey. Although many students at Notre Dame Catholie university. The Catholic nature dances. STAG is a popular on-campus Students at Villanova University, in would like to have a Greek system and of Providenee affects the social life. dance held at the recreation center at suburban Philadelphia, experience a dif­coed dorms. most students at the schools aeeording to Maher. Providence. Juniors at Providence go to ferent kind of Greek life. where these are present would say that it 
Two dorms went eoed, by lloor, in the Boston for Junior Ring Weekend, a Villanova has 15 fraternities and 8 is an individualized preference. "Most last two years at Providence in response weekend long formal. sororities, but there are no officially people decide to join a fraternity or a to students' complaints that they wanted So don't feel like there is no one else designated Greek houses. Still, people sorority based on what type of person to socialize with the opposite sex without in the world who can relate to your from the same Greek organization often they are," said Thompson from Colgate. having to go to bars all the time. Yet. social life and its ups and downs. If you live together in an off-campus house The Greek system at other schools may "parietals" are still a familiar word in all ever want to complain about the gender which is designated as the official "party provide more parties than Notre Dame, dorms at Providence. relations on this campus or need a fake house" for their fraternit~ or sorority. but many similarities still exist between 
Maher lived two years in an all girls ID,there are many students at During rush, a candidate's life revolves our school and other universities across dorm, and now lives in a University Providence who would love to get on-line around impressing the members of the the nation. apartment which is coed by room· and with you And if you get sent to Student fraternity or sorority that candidate wish­Many students also live in single-sex does not have parietals. "It's a lot better Affairs because you took a beer into the es to join. living arrangements, go to bars. and have because it opens people up socially." hallway at your last SYR someone at The candidate then picks the three or­formals. The difference, however, is that Maher says. Rice can sympathize. ganizations he or she prefers. and par-they have more options. 
-­--­ 
page 4  The Observer· BUDGET VOTE  Monday, November 13, 1995  
Gingrich, Clinton likely to flinch at crunch time By DAVID ESPO mise. Associated P~ess On Friday, for example, Gigrich and Dole went before rWASHINGTON porters, golf clubs in hand, With a partial government excoriate Clinton for playinshutdown looming and the golf while the budget cristhreat of a default, as well, loomed. With Clinton vowinSpeaker Newt Gingrich was to veto the short-term bills Rasked whether he was calcu­publicans are advancing to hlating that President Clinton desk, the Republican leadewould blink in a veto con­said it was up to the presidefrontation with Republicans. to initiate compromise efforts. No, Gingrich replied re­"It would be rather precently. ''I'm making a calcu­sumptuous of me or the lation that we aren't" going to Speaker to call the president B~dget Expansion continued from page 1 continued from page 1 Clinton's preference to reduce Student Body President them is "totally irresponsible" Jonathan Patrick. "My im­n­because officials say Medicare pression is that they [the ath­e­will go bankrupt in seven years letic department] want to do to unless savings are found. The as much as they can to make g increases are a key part of the sure that the student section is is GOP's plan to squeeze savings maintained." g from the system, and lettinge­the premiums fall would make Two proposals were outlinedis it politically harder to boost in the report. The first optionrs them later. keeps the student sectionnt intact in its traditional spot in The tough talk left it highly sections F, G and H. The only­likely that 800,000 federal complication involves remov­employees would be sent home ing a row of bleachers and," Tuesday, when most agencies' possibly installing an inclined  be made, this is the only other feasible option," Mitchell said. According to the report, this option poses many problems, ranging from a concourse wall dividing the student body to the possibility of students in the upper deck jumping the wall to get into the lower sec­tions. Student Government remains optimistic about the seating plans despite pres­sures from public ticket-hold­ers. "The athletic department has been very receptive, and have a strong interest in serv­ing the students in order to give them a section they can be proud of," Mitchell said.  
blink. Dole said. "It's up to him tThe likelihood is that both make that call." sides will wind up blinking, Less than two hours lateeither before the threatened the GOP leadership issued apartial shutdown of the gov­invitation to Clinton to come ernment Monday at midnight, the Capitol on Saturday. or, more likely perhaps, some Clinton offered to send hdays later, when a compro­top aide instead, and Dole anmise is needed to prevent se­Gingrich countered with arious disruptions in the lives of offer to send stand-ins fomillions of Americans. themselves. In the politicAnd Clinton may yet make duet that followed, plans fthe major concessions on the meeting were scrapped. Medicare, Medicaid and wel­Shortly thereafter, Republfare that Republicans expect cans tried again. and congressional Aides arranged an early aDemocrats fear -when the ternoon telephone call to thtwo sides sit down to discuss a president on Saturday, in  o authority to spend money ex­wall to prevent obstructing the pires. Also looming is the ex­view of public ticket holders r, piration Wednesday of the gov­seated in the upper deck n ernment's ability to borrow behind the students. to money, although Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin has "This option is obviously theis said he would avoid an un­best for the students. It out­d precedented default. lines the way in which the rich n tradition of' the student section r should be kept, and still ac­al commodates the addition ofStrangeror the upper deck," said Mike Mitchell, Student Governmentcontinued from page 1i­Chief of' Staff'. The second option proposed Saint Mary's communities.f­is to shorten the width of theThere is no service that wee student section and move itcharge for," he said. upward into the new upperThe description of the man  Patrick agrees. "The athletic department has so many dif­ferent pressures pulling them in different directions, includ­ing both alumni and students," he said. ''I'm sure they'll do the best they can to make sure the students have the best experience." The report, composed by Student Government Assistant Chief of Staff Daniel Easley, was complied based on over a month of research in conjunc­tion with the Athletic Depart­ment and Facilities Engineer­ing. A final decision date is not yet determined.  

possible compromise on the overriding GOP goal of a bal­anced budget. 
But in a string of gestures that contradict their political personalities, Clinton is hold­ing tough thus far in the cur­rent budget crunch, while Gin­grich, with Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole by his side, keeps edging toward compro-

Crash 
continued from page 1 
Dawn Kasperski was still in the orthopedic ward of St. Joseph Medical Center as of yesterday evening after suffer­ing a broken arm and a con­cussion, hospital personnel said. Langer and Peter Luongo were treated for abrasions at the medical center on Saturday and released that night. Don Nestor, the sixth student in­volved, did not require medical attention at the center. 
The students were returning to campus after seeing a movie at the University Park East the­ater. After learning from Notre Dame Security Police that Notre Dame students were involved in the accident, Bill Kirk, assistant vice-president of residence life at the University, stopped at the scene and accompanied the students to the hospital. 
The parents of the students were notified of the accident by the University, and all were in town Sunday, according to Kirk. 
The two individuals in the white car were taken to St. Joseph Hospital of Mishawaka, according to South Bend Police. Details of their conditions were not disclosed. 

which Dole suggested a com­promise on one key sticking point, a proposed increase in the Medicare Part B premium. 
Clinton said no, and, accord­ing to Republican aides, swift­ly terminated the call, saying he had to leave for a previous engagement. When GOP aides called the White House to see whether to continue the call later, officials said later, they learned that White House spokesman Mike McCurry was already offering the White House version of events to reporters. 
was similar in both cases and the man is described as being a black male with a medium build, approximately 33 years old, and approximately 5' 8" tall. He had a mustache and was wearing a green jacket and sweat pants. 
Hurley advises that students should report being approached in a similar man­ner and should not give the man any amounts of money. He also advises that they go to a nearby call box to report the incident, noting any helpful information for Security. 
God gives each person one lifetime. What are you doing with yours? 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: 
Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 631-6385 

Are you interested in a position on the Notre Dame campus this summer (June 24 to August 3) as a Youth Coordinator for the NCAA National Youth Sports Program? 
The position provides room and board on campus, three hours of academic credit, and a tuition credit of $1200. Each coordinator will be in charge of a group of twenty 10-to 16-year old kids from economically disadvantaged backgrounds in our local community. These positions are part of Notre Dame's overall Sununer Service Program. See you at the information session for further details and information. 
deck. "If a compromise must 
DIRECT FROM NEW YORK! LIVE! -~ ON STAGE! SEE WHAT ALL THE NOISE IS ABOUT You've Seen STOMP On: • The late Show, with David letterman • The Tonight Show • CNN News • Good Morning America • Dateline NBC STUDENT TICKETS S 15 w11.o. (Limited Availability) "Hip and Hot. AJoyful Blitz of disquiet. STOMP is a PERSONABLE High-Energy bunch." joan Ungaro, Theatreweek  
SPECIAL ALERT! look for STOMP Student Discount Coupons in Wednesday's OBSERVER  
EACHNOVEMBER 28•29•30 8PMEVENING MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM Reserved Seats: Now on sale at Morris Box Office, The Usual Outlets, or Charge by Phone: (219)235-9190 KIDS 1I 2 PRICE COUPONS! Available at: South Bend Granger l1J. Mishawaka Have you had your break today?N  

~-------.----~~----------~-----------------.-----------------------------------------------­
Monday, November 13, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
~ 


Duck! 
Students around the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses take advantage of the first snow of the year. (Above) Saint Mary's sopho­mores Jenn Cervantes and Courtney Merriss build a snowman in front of LeMans Hall Saturday while freshman Adam Andres (left) launches a snowball at fellow Flannerite and freshman Tim Monahan (right). 



Gun offenses by juveniles continue to rise rapidly 
By MICHAEL SNIFFEN by one-third. tistics are "a chilling reminder" soaring teen-age gun violence. a law prohibiting people from Assouarcd Press Juvenile delinquency cases that juvenile violence is the Last year's crime act made it a bringing guns onto school prop­involving weapons violations country's top crime problem. . federal offense for people under erty. WASHINGTON grew by 86 percent between "Now is not the time to weaken age 18 to own a handgun and Rep. Charles Schumer of New 
Nearly one in four people ar­1988 and 1992, more than any our laws," the president said. provided up to 10 years in York, ranking Democrat on the rt1sted for weapons crimes are other type of juvenile offense. prison for anyone providing a House crime subcommittee, juveniles, and weapons o!Tenses The weapons crime data Teen-age violence, particu­handgun to someone under age said the figures are "frighten­are the fastest growing youth track closely the surge in vio­larly with guns, has been rising 18. ing and show government at all erime, the .Justiee Department lent youth crimes, which has steadily since 1985, even as the Last week, Reno allocated $8 levels isn't doing enough." reported Sunday. been widely reported during number of teen-agers declined. million for six communities to "Thirty years ago, Americans 
A study by the department's the last three years. During the next 20 years, the test a variety of ideas for re­wouldn't imagine 14-year-olds Burflau of .Justiee Statistics age 14-17 group is expected to ducing youth violence. would have easy access to found that juveniles accounted Weapons offenses include the grow. Under the crime act, 10 guns," Schumer said. He sup­for 23 pereent of all weapons illegal use, possession, traf­"If the last decade's trends police departments have been ports licensing and registration erinw arrnsts in 1993, com­ficking, carrying, manufactur~ continue unchecked, juvenile allocated $1 million to devise of gun dealers and owners "so pared to 16 percent in 1974. ing, importing or exporting of arrests for violent crime will community policing programs owning a gun is no harder than Sueh juvenile arrests more than guns. ammunition. silencers. double by the year 2010," designed to curb youth gun owning a car." doubled. from less than 30,000 explosives and some types of Attorney General Janet Reno crimes. But he said gun control oppo­to more than 61,000, between knives. said last week. The administration is asking nents in the Republican-con­l9H5 and 1993 while adult President Clinton said in a The government already has Congress to override a Supreme trolled Congress would defeat arrests for these crimlls grew statement Sunday that the sta-begun to the respond to the Court decision that struck down such measures. 

- -­ 
-~  -~  -~  
page 6  The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS  Monday, November 13, 1995  

• CROATIA • MEXICO 
Serbs accept deal to return land 
By JULIJANA MOJSILOVIC 
Associated Press 
ERDUT 
Rebel Serbs agreed Sunday to submit the last of their holdings in Croatia to government authority, resolving a dispute that threatened to derail U.S.­led talks in Ohio on peace for the Balkans. 
"This is a historic signing," 
U.S. Ambassador Peter Galbraith said. "For the first time in this conflict an issue has been solved by a signature and not by a bullet." 
The agreement, signed in this Serb-held town in eastern Croatia and witnessed by Galbraith and chief U.N. envoy Thorvald Stoltenberg, also averted the imminent threat of more fighting. 
Croatian troops in May and August recaptured most Serb­held territory taken in a 1991 war, sending about 180,000 Croatian Serbs fleeing to Bosnia and Serbia. 
Croatia threatened to attack the remaining bit of Serb-held territory, known as eastern Slavonia, if rebels refused to accept the plan for its reinte­gration. 
Such an attack on the territo­ry, which borders Serbia could have drawn in the Serb-led Yugoslav army, leading to renewed war and a collapse of Bosnian peace talks at Wright­Patterson Air Force Base. 
In a show of force, the Croatian army had moved crack troops and heavy artillery toward the front line over the past few days. Witnesses also reported seeing a large column of Yugoslav army troops and guns headed toward the Croatian border late Saturday night. 
"The agreement provides for a peaceful solution," Stoltenberg said. "I generally 

a NATO presence, similar to 
U.N. weapons-Separation
• .. .. that which would enforce peace 
free zone ...........zone
--
in Bosnia. 

D Bosnian government-ll!ll Croat-Serb and 
The agreement calls for a
Croat federation Bosnian-Serb 

one-year transitional period that can be extended to two if requested by either side. It asks the U.N. Security Council to create an interim administra­tion for the area and deploy troops to maintain peace, but does not specify the composi­tion of those forces. 
The 14-point agreement was finalized in Dayton during talks between Croatian President Franjo Tudjman and Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic, negotiating on behalf of rebel Serbs in Croatia and Bosnia, sources said. 
Hrvoje Sarinic, who signed for the Croats, said the agree­ment paved the way for "full normalization of relations between Croatia and Serbia." The two have never restored ties broken in the 1991 war. 
"Today's agreement was the best we have been offered so far," said chief Serb negotiator Milan Milanovic. "Our condi­tions were to prevent war and to prevent people from fleeing the area. We asked for U.N. administration and we got it." 
AP/Carl Fox 

The accord also promises
hope that this will have a con­human rights will be respected
tagious effect for the whole 
and provides for the return ofarea." 
tens of thousands of Croats who 
The two negotiators later 
fled eastern Slavonia during the took the agreement to Zagreb, 1991 war.
the Croatian capital, where the 
The agreement also gives
government's lead negotiator anyone who moved to the areasigned for Croatia. 
from other parts of Croatia theThe Croatian government and right to remain ~ a referencerebel Serb leaders had agreed 
to ethnic Serbs who fled
Oct. 3 on basic principles for Croatian army offensives lastthe return of the territory, but spring and summer and reset­remained at odds over how that tled in eastern Slavonia.
'1ould be done. 

It also guarantees the right of 
Serbs wanted a three-year 
return for property confiscatedtransition period and U.N. mon­or abandoned by force and theitoring. Croatia insisted on no right of compensation for prop­more than one year and wanted erty which cannot be returned. 
Ifyou're having trouble finding ABC oryour signalis less than what you expect, call1CI ofMichiana at, 258-5858 or 1-800-968-5100 today. 
® 


Six state election races test ruling party's popularity 
By ANITA SNOW 
Associated Press 

MORELlA 
One state had a fiercely con­tested three-way fight for gov­ernor. Five others chose may­ors and state legislators. 
But voting Sunday was ex­pected to stand more as a ref­erendum on. the waning popu­larity of the Institutional Revolutionary Party, which has ruled Mexico for 66 years. 
Support for the party, known as PRI, has steadily dropped since a severe economic crisis hit Mexico three weeks after President Ernesto Zedillo took office Dec. 1. 
Since then, the peso lost more than half its value against the dollar. Inflation soared from 7 percent in 1994 to an estimated 50 to 60 percent this year. 
More than 1 million jobs have been lost. Sales have declined sharply, and scores of businesses have closed every month. 
"This election is a national plebiscite on the politics of the current federal government," Porfirio Munoz Ledo. chairman of the leftist Democratic Revo­lutionary Party, warned in a campaign speech. 
In the west coast state of Michoacan. there was a close three-way race for governor among candidates from each of the three top parties. The state's 1.9 million voters also were choosing 113 mayors, and 30 state legislators. 
Elections for state legislators and mayors were also held in Sinaloa, Puebla, Tlaxcala, Oaxaca and Tamaulipas. Those states have a total 6.6 million voters. 
In Mexico City, 5.4 million voters were choosing 365 neighborhood council mem­bers, new offices created to deal with local problems in the metropolis of 12 million. Can­didates for city council were not allowed to belong to any political party. 


Happy 21st Birthday 
JPn11Irll~~ 
We Love you! Mom, Karen. Tim, Andrew, Maire Kate, AP, Diana & Kristin 






:30 P.M. artolo 

.. An evening to discuss l relationships between the -:::· · men and women of 
tre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Co-sponsored by the student governments of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
For more information, call
TCI ofMichiana 
284-5373 
Monday, November 13, 1995 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
•ISRAEL • CHINA 
Shin Bet knew of plot to kill Rabin China shuns 
By DAN PERRY "Enough Death," Israeli troops Bet said. for possible use against Arabs. Dalai Lama's 
Asso.:iatod Pross 
TEL AVIV 

In the latest evidence of a stunning intelligence failure, tlw Shin Bet security agency acknowl11dged Sunday that it had advance information about the assassin of Prime Minister Yitzhak Habin. 
In a court appearance, the eonfnssed assassin's brother said he received weapons from a snrgeant in an elite army unit, who is the seventh detained suspnct. Thn assassin's brother was ordered held for 12 more days. 
As the official mourning pe­riod 11ndnd, more than 200,000 Israelis streamed into newly named Yitzhak Rabin Square in a defiant replay of the peace rally where a Jewish extremist shot down the prime minister eight days before. It was believed to be the biggest gath­llring ever in Israel. 
Even as the square was filled with flags. candles, cardboard doves and signs reading began pulling out of the West Bank town of Jenin, as provided by the autonomy agreement signed by Habin and PLO chief Vasser Arafat in September. The pullout is to be done by Monday. 
In a highly unusual move, the secretive Shin Bet sent a fax to Israel's Army radio saying that authorities were told of an assassination plot in June by a friend of Yigal Arnir, who con­fessed to gunning down Rabin after the Nov. 4 peace rally. The Associated Press obtained a copy of the fax. 
The agency acknowledged that a friend of Arnir's, Shlomo Halevy. provided authorities with an accurate description of the assassin after being told of plans to kill Rabin by a mutual friend. 
Halevy told his army com­mander of the plot but did not reveal Amir's name or say that he knew him, pretending instead that he had overheard two men discussing the plot in a bus station bathroom, the Shin 

Directed by Reginald Rain 
Wednesday, November 15 Thursday, November 16 Friday, November 17 Saturday, November 18 
Sunday, November 19 2:30p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall 
Reserved Seats $8 
Sludenl and senior citizen discounl5 are available for all performances. Ticke15 arc available allhe door or in advance a! !he Laforlune Srudenl Cenler Tickel Office. M:L~IcrCard and Visa Orders ca!l631-8128 
8p.m. 8p.m. 8p.m. 8p.m. 


Halevy said one of the plot­ters was 25, short, black­haired, a member of the mili­tant Jewish group Eyal and a student at Bar Ilan University. Amir fits that description. 
Security sources said on con­dition of anonymity that Halevy's information was turned over to the Shin Bet, but after a superficial check, the agency decided to ignore it. 
Theories that Rabin was the victim of a wider conspiracy were also bolstered Sunday when police told a magistrate's court in Tel Aviv they had evi­dence linking a sergeant in an elite army unit to the as­sassination. 
The detained soldier, an ob­servant Jew, is the seventh sus­pect in custody. Hagai Amir. Yigal Arnir's 27 -year-old broth­er. told the court he received weapons from the soldier, Eric Schwartz, but returned them. 
Police said they have arrested Schwartz, but he did not appear in court on Sunday. Police would not say if he would appear on Monday. 
Hagai, wearing jeans and a black skullcap, told the court he did not believe his brother real­ly planned to kill Rabin. He said a cache of weapons found at the Amir house was intended 


An Irish Catholic Fraternity invites you to be a part of the organization that today, more than ever is at the forefront of what it means to be an IRISH-AMERICAN -supporters of the MacBride Principles; Irish Immigration Reform; Preservation of our Cultural Heritage -including the arts and sports. 
Contact: Maury Hoban 234-1871 or Dennis McFadden 273-9512 
I\~::C-J:'I,=1~1/l.=r.v,q.-JI 
Meetigs 1st Monday of the Month at Mishawaka K. of C.@ 7:30p.m.(next to Doc Pierce's Restaurant) 
Next Monday: Nov. 13th Special Social Meeting at Madison Oyster Bar@ 7:30p.m. 
Judge Dan Arbel, in agreeing to a police request for extend­ing Hagai Arnir's detention for 12 more days, said he believed "there was a conspiracy and an organization" to kill Rabin. 
"This was not done by one man," Arbel said. 
The sobering revelations were likely to further shake Israel's security services, al­ready widely blamed for failing to protect Rabin. 
Four senior Shin Bet officials have lost their jobs. Its director, identified only as C. has offered to resign but was asked by act­ing Prime Minister Shimon Peres to stay on until a govern­ment probe is completed. 
Five other people were ar­rested near Tel Aviv on Sunday when they telephoned police and threatened to kill Peres. 
Earlier, generals, Cabinet members and relatives filed past the flower-strewn grave of "Lieutenant General Yitzhak Rabin" at Jerusalem's Mount Herzl cemetery to mark the end of the official seven days of mourning. 
Chief Rabbi Israel Lau mum­bled a silent prayer as he filed past the grave, and army chief of staff Amnon Shahak and the other generals saluted the slain warrior. 
NfORDER 
OF 

HIBERNIANS 
IN AMERICA J~~'"l.l. 



THE BECKER CPA REVIEW COURSE 
INVITES YOU TO APRESENTATION ON 
"HowroPREPAREIDR1HE CPAEXAM" AND CURRENT EVENTS 
Monday, November13, 1995 6:00pm University of Notre Dame LaFortune Center Foster Room 
•Pizza and Pop will be served ·Door Prize Drawing for Gift Certificates$$$ 
• 

•Special College Discount Available to Students Attending 
Open to ALL Students Interested -BRING AFRIEND! FoR FURTHER INFORMATION, CALL 277-4366 

selection 
By RENEE SCHOOF 
Associated Press 
BEIJING 

Accusing the Dalai Lama of fraud, China on Sunday re­jected the Tibetan leader's choice of a 6-year-old boy as the reincarnation of a top­ranking Buddhist official. 
The official Xinhua News Agency reported the Chinese government summoned a search committee of Tibetan lamas to Beijing last week to narrow the search for the reincarnation of the Panchen Lama to three boys, not including the boy named by the Dalai Lama. 
The Dalai Lama, in exile since 1959, is still widely revered in Tibet as a god­king. The Panchen Lama is the second-highest Tibetan spiritual leader, after the Dalai Lama, and the highest­ranking leader inside Tibet. 
Tibetan Buddhists believe the Panchen Lama is Amitabha, the Buddha of Light, and that his spirit passed into the body of an infant when he died in 1989. The search committee has been looking for that boy for six years. 
The Chinese government says the Cabinet must approve the three boys named by the committee, and the reincar­nated Panchen Lama will be chosen by drawing lots from a golden urn. 
The Dalai Lama recognized the 11th reincarnation of the Panchen Lama as Bedhun Choekyi Nyima, a herder's son found in a Tibetan village by the search committee. 
The government accused him Sunday of choosing the child "through fraud" that "violated the cardinal princi­ples of Buddhism," Xinhua re­ported. 
For that reason, it said, the boy cannot be the reincarna­tion. 
The Dalai Lama adamantly denies the allegations. 
Engagement Rings 10%-15% OFF! Official Wholesale Price List! 

S.A. Peck & Co. 

55 E. Washington, Chicago, /L 60602 For a Free 32-Pagt Color Catalog To/1-Fm (800) 922-0090 FAX (312) 977-0248 Jrittrntt Catalog at hnp: llwww.saptd.com/saptck 

Parts  $185  
London  $215  
SanJose  $239  
Madrid  $269  
TOIIVO  $359  
Taipei  $425  

r......... rach~omChlcor,::. b<Hdonr= II'\> 
~~~·~~'r'to c=t .~Po~ ~~~lagl::,
c.//lod.ty f« olhn _,dwi<J. <J.tllrYIIotra. 
[lmihf411Travel~ 
CIEE, CoWICU on lnt...,ollonol Educallonol Erdo""S• 
1-800-2-CDUNC/l 
l1-IIOD-226-86241 

can todav tor aFREE Student Ttavetsmaoazinel 







VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Monday, November 13, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 

John Lucas Managing Editor Business Manager Elizabeth Regan Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor.................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ...................... J en Mackowiak Sports Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by rhe students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither instirution. The news is repotted a.s accurately and objectively a.s possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General Informa lion 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• WitHER OF MY DISCONTENT 
Learning from the German autobahn system 
-AUTOBAHN 5, SOUTH OF American reactions to these proposed those eighteen and older. But even then, listening to a tape or the radio and sud­
STUGGART,GERMANY changes in their respective highway obtaining a license involves taking a six denly this stern voice will come on and 
speed laws is somewhat confusing to month road experience intensive course tell you that there's a traffic jam ahead 
I want to apologize in advance for the me. After all, according to the popular and then passing a stringent, nationally and to alter your route if possible. While column you are about to read since I'm stereotypes the situation should be uniform exam (unlike the U.S. where I'm sure this setup can be a real mood afraid it's not going to be terribly coher­reversed. Germans, who are generally both rules and tests differ from state to breaker at certain times, it does prevent ent. That's not to imply that my columns thought to be disciplined, rigid, order­state). one from getting too into the music and are ever that coherent, but this one is loving perfectionists, should favor a The result of this is that most Germans brings you back to the real world of the probably going to be worse than usual. speed limit. While anti-authoritarian, are simply better -or at least more highway. You see I'm having trouble concentrat­impatient, individualistic Americans conscientious -drivers than their Finally, in all of Germany there's not ing on my writing, perhaps due to the should theoretically be imposed to such American counterparts. one single toll road. fact that I'm in the passenger seat of a government restrictions on their free­Strict protocols are That means no toll car traveling 200 kilometers per hour. dom. If there is any validity to these per­observed on the auto­plazas to serve as Our speed itself isn't 
vasive generaliza-bahn and failure to 'strict protocols are focal points for bottle­the problem, fact tions about abide by them will necks and no fumbling
observed on the 
that we were just German and result in significant for change as you
autobahn and failure to
passed like an Amish American charac­fines; contrary to popu­drive down the road at farmer in his wagon ter -and I believe lar belief the autobahn abide by them will result high speed. Instead. on the way to church Chris there is -how can is not a lawless jungle, every German car
in significant fines; con­
is; I can't decide if we account for this but a sort of high speed owner pays a yearly I'm on a road or a odd disparity with metallic ballet patrolled trary to popular belief fee for road construc­
Kratovil
roller coaster. respect to speed by Porsche-driving tion and upkeep.
the autobahn is not a
Naturally, touring limits? police concerned with I do not mean to Germany via this In attempting to the quality of your dri­lawless jungle, but a sort imply that the auto­BMW commercial answer this ques­ving, not how fast you bahns are a perfect
of high speed metallic 
sprung-to-life that is the autobahn sys­tion, I think that it are going. For example, system. There are cer­tem has brought the issue of auto safety is worth noting that the autobahns and failure to more over to ballet patrolled by tainly some major and speed limits to the forefront of my the interstates are probably the two the right to allow a Porsche-driving police problems, such as the mind. As you are no doubt aware, there finest engineered road systems in the faster moving vehicle to dangers both to and
concerned with the qual­
is no speed limit on the autobahn and a world. Certainly no other European pass you is the mother from non-German dri­recent attempt to impose a 100 kmlh country can match either of them. But of all autobahn viola­ity of your driving, not vers not as well restriction around urban areas has there is little resemblance in the behav­tions; if you get rear­trained in the ways of
how fast you are going.' 
sparked a firestorm of protest from ior of the drivers on them. ended while on the the road as the locals German drivers. This situation con­In explaining this, it is important to highway it's legally (this is especially true trasts markedly to the United States, take note of how the two cultures pre­your fault if you're not in the furthest since the creation of the European where this past summer the U.S. pare their young people to drive. In the right lane. This greatly cuts down on Union and its open borders policy) and Senate's consideration of a bill that U.S.. "driver's ed" classes are by and trucks monopolizing the road and pre­the incompatibility of former East would return the power to set speed lim­large a joke, often taught by off-duty vents grandma from sitting in the left Germans in their underpowered com­its on Federal roads to individual states high school football coaches and consist­lane in her '73 Buick Apollo land yacht munist-produced cars (Zils) with the -e.g. no more federally mandated 55 ing mostly of hokey "blood on the high­while going 45 mph. Mercedes/BMW oriented autobahns of mph -angered everyone from the ways" documentaries from the 1950s. There are fewer exits an on-ramps on the West. What's more, when there are American Automobile Association to "Driver's ed" classes often run as little the autobahn than on an American accidents, they are horrible. On the Mothers Against Drunk Driving to envi­as six weeks and are taken by sixteen interstate, and those that are are will whole, however, there is much that the ronmentalists and senior citizen groups. year olds more preoccupied with the marked and long. Additionally, road United States could borrow from the These organizations maintained that the increased social status that will result crews are supposed to work only during autobahns to improve our own inter­inevitable increase in highway speed from acquiring a driver's license than off-peak hours, rather than during the state system. At a minimum, we should limits which would result from state's with learning to behave safely and middle of rush hour as so often seems to try to learn what the Germans already being granted control of these roads responsibly on the roads. happen in the U.S. Another safety inno­know; that well trained, focused driving would lead to an increased number of Here in Germany the situation is vation on the autobahn is a weird sort of is more important than low speeds to accidents, greater carnage and more somewhat different. While Germans are traffic update system that automatically safety. pollution. allowed to purchase alcohol at age six­overrides your car stereo and brings you Chris Kratovil is a junior spending the 
The contrasting German and teen, driving is a privilege reserved for road reports; you can be cruising along semester in London. 
• Dm.lNES6URY 
tuetCOM/38ACX 
7V "AU 7H!Nt35 
R£C0NSIPeR£IY~1 
AS At/AIAYS, 
I'M MAR!< 5/A(}(Metc.R, 
YOUR. 
f((}ST.., 
7DPAY I'Ve GOTA SURPRISG fOR YOU. eVa< SINce I Olf!l3f}MYSUF ON 7H& AIR 71AJO YeARS AGO, CAU&R'3 

HAV&aeeN A'3K!NGA1eUJHE3N I WAS 60/NG TOPINP 50M£0N£ TO SHAR/3MYN&tt/tiP& W/7H. 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
fA/&1.-L, ITFINAUYHAPPCNE3P. HIS NAMe IS NEIL-, ANI? He'S IUITH US IN 7He 5TU/?10 
TO/?AY. aJ/31£0M&, N&/1.-/ 
• QUOTE Of THE DAY 
" Give us grace and strength to forbear and to persevere ... Give us courage and gaiety and the quiet mind, spare to us our friends, soften to us our enemies." 
-Robert Louis Stevenson 
VIEWPOINT
Monday, November 13, 1995 page 9 
• LETIERS TO THE EDITOR 



Dear Editor: Cristiano Likely's article on Nov. 
9. "Power to tho People: Pride and Segregation," advocates a segre­gated America, separate but equal. For, according to her view, people from a specific ethnic background, be it Caucasian, African-American. Hispanic, or Asian, can only completely identify with individuals from the same ethnic decent. If this is so, then within America there should not only exist white supermarkets and black supermarkets but also a white television network, a black te!fwision network, an llispanic television network, etc. This way eaeh community will receive the news that is pertinent to them and will not be forced to have their thoughts and feelings reported by a elass or group which doesn't understand. By extension, there should also be a understand what it is like to be African­black city council and a white city council. A American or Hispanic or Asian. But I can try. black federal government and a white federal And I do. My best friend is Asian and I am govnrnment. For only then will the specific needs Caucasian. According to your views, as a white of each community be met and effectively dealt person I could never completely understand my 
with-free from the pressure of any opposing best friend. But I do. I do not consciously seek group. out diversity. I do not go around looking for a !low could such a society possibly be charac­black friend and an Hispanic friend so that from tmiznd as one United States of America. United them I can better understand the Hispanic cul­by what'? Even if the segregated government only ture or the African-American culture. but at the oxistnd at the city level, but the state and federal same time I do not automatically assume that 
govnrnment remained integrated, how could because someone is different from me, that per­pnople not used to dealing with one another pos­son and I can never be friends. sibly work together? What would be the point of What place in your proposed society is left for superficially forcing two or more groups together interracial couples and their children? Does a 
which are not used to working with or listening child who is half-black and half-white only have half of the understanding of what it means to be
to one another. 
Perhaps, this is your point. Perhaps it is the black in America? Is that individual only half as case that at the fnderal and state governmental worthy to live in the black or white section of 
love) African-Americans, Caucasians, Hispanics, town? If such an individual decided to live in the and Asians are being forced to listen to white section, would that mean that he must
one another for the first time. Perhaps this is the real automatically renounce the African-American 
rnason government is becoming a mockery and part of his heritage? How incredibly unfair to issues like welfare and health care threaten to force someone to choose to acknowledge only 
destroy American. or rather white, black. one part of themselves, while it is the whole that Hispanic, and Asian, society. Perhaps if the makes each individual unique. 
blacks only addressed black health care and There is no room for growth in a society which whites only addressed white health care, things shuns differences. Problems have a much greater 
chance of being solved if the views of many dif­
would be much better. llow sad. !low sad that the great experiment in ferent groups are represented and various solu­
tions are proposed. America is not perfect. There 
America has failed. llow foolish of our forefa­thers, or in your eyes are they only my forefa­is often a great lack of communication between thers. to think that people from different back­various groups within American society. But 
what will get accomplished if you stop any com­
grounds and cultures could come together and 
munication or dialogue when it has only just
live together. I for one completely disagree that efforts to begun? 
COLLEEN MURPHY 
integrate America should end. It is true that I will never be able to completely, 100 percent, Junior Howard Hall 
American identity should take primacy over ethnicity 
Dear Editor: The idea of resegregating provides a divi­African-American case. No, you cannot just I am writing in response to Cristiane siveness that is not needed in this day and have part of the puzzle, in order for your Liknly's article that you printed in the Nov. 9 age. There is already too mueh racial vio­world to make sense, and by your argu­
issue of The Observer. I wish to take issue lence and hatred in America today. Do you ments, all ethnic groups that have their own with some of Likely's statements. think that setting up separate schools, languages (Spanglish, Black English, and 
I was horrified to see that in America a towns, business, and other institutions is the native tongues of the speakers) should kind of historical ignorance and self-right­going to remove this hatred? No it will only be segregated. twus blindness is now extending back to grow from current levels and tear this We then end up with a society that has no only thirty years ago. I grant you that nei­nation in two. form. It is simply a loose collection of ethnic 
tlwr rnysHif. nor Likely were alive in the You say that you like hanging out with groups. Laws would have no meaning 
1960s. But aceounts survive of the speeches, your friends who are Black. You wish to because they would have to apply to only thn rallies. the court cases, the men and speak, "Black English", in everyday life. one ethnic group. Racism and hatred would women, blaek and white, who dedicated Being black is what makes you who you are. increase in America. tlwir livns, to the point where many had to However, you use this as a basis to say that In the 1960s, the time was right for saerifiee them, to the cause of ehanging the Martin Luther King, Medgar Evers, and change outside of the system. The Panthers 
law of "separate but nqual." other civil rights leaders are wrong, and were right in that they believed that the sys­Assimilation is an ugly word, it asks that that some of the most intelligent, most out­tem was not going to help the Black cause, it 
someoiHl give up their culture. This was spoken men and women of the last thirty was inherently racist. Blacks have finally nnver wriltmt into the law that ended segre­years were dead wrong in their pursuit of gained access to the system. The time is gation. Likely should eheck her history. The equality through integration. right now for change from the inside. The reason that sngregationist policies were not Your statement that "the only time that system will work if you participate. working was due to an innate raeism in the people of different ethnic backgrounds are Do not throw away a thirty year struggle systnm. "Colored only" facilities wern shod­together is during class or maybe during because you are uncomfortable speaking dy, unkept, often second-class facilities. sporting events. But give people the oppor­proper English and want to hang out with 
Thus thn Suprerrw Court decided that not tunity to be with who they want and they people who are like you. It is uncomfortable only did tlw facilities have to be equal, but will usually tend to stick to people who are for everyone, but we all have to use it. No tlw samn. It was and still is the only way to like them." I find this not to be the case in one forced you to go to school in a hostile 
insure a chanee of ~~quality. real life. A specific example is the my six­environment. Any programs that took peo­No one is asking you to give up your cul­man room. It contains one Hispanie, two ple out of their areas to different school dis­ture, no one is asking you to give up your Asians, two Blacks, and a white kid from tricts were done with the high-minded pur­
friends. Tlwy are asking that people consid­Michigan. We chose to live together and we pose of keeping all schools competitive. If it er tlwmselvt~s Americans first and whatever hang out all the time. does not work, cltange it from the inside. Do culture they are second. This country was I have many friends who are Black, many not simply throw away the system before 
founded on the principle that all Americans who are Asian, Hispanic, Native American, you have tried it. Do not let the civil rights 
are just that, Americans. llispanics, Asians, and European. They have all enriched my leaders of the 1960s die so that we can Europnans, Afrieans, everyone is weleome life and some have been friends of mine for return to conditions of the 1950s. DAVID LIPAR 
to come and be a eitizen. But there is a uni­my entire life. Your policy would take them 
fying aspm~t to this country. We cannot just out of my life forever. And do not say that Senior Keenan Hall
be a loose confederation of ethnic groups. segregation need only be used in the 
Loving all is Catholic answer 
Dear Editor: 
Let me begin my letter by apologizing to all the blaek members of the Notre Dame community. I once thought that I existed in relative har­mony with my neighbors, white, black, yellow, or green, but now I realize I was wrong. Cristiano Likely has been kind enough to point out to me that I, in fact, am a radst oppressor. I now realize that the color of my skin, pale white if you're curious, effectively prohibits me from engaging in an hon­est and open relationship with anyone whose epider­mis has a darker hue. This knowledge is quite beneficial because it will spare me the embarrassment of attempt­ing to break this natural law and socialize outside of my race, "the chosen people". 
Frankly, while this knew information has me feeling relieved, I am also confused. The Catholic Church, aided by my dear momma, always told me that the highest level of social achievement was the ability to disregard out­ward appearance when judging a man. I better say woman to or else I'll be sex­ist as well as racist. Now that I think about that again I realize maybe Jesus, the Pope, and my mom knew something you do not. I am about to profess the biggest cliche known to this issue, but surprisingly enough it is true. I have lots of black friends. I am not involved in some strange, inner-city social experiment. I did not lose a bet making me reduce myself to associating with people who look different from me. There just hap­pened to be some nice guys in my high school with dif­ferent skin color. Luckily they did not know that I am a racist oppressor and they sat with me at lunch one day. Out of their ignorance emerged some great friend­ships. 
Maybe Likely is correct and America could be a decent place if we chose to voluntarily segregate our­selves by race. On the other hand if we used valuable newspaper space to promote archaic ideas like indiscrimi­natory love instead of for­ward thinking ideas like seg­regation maybe America could be a great place. Perhaps I am not the best person to listen to on this subject because, aside from my oppressor status, I am also a Southerner. While I have never actually attended a lynching Likely has me convinced it is only a matter of time before I do. 
Sorry Likely but Jesus asked me to love my brother. lie was nailed to a tree for trying to get people to be nice to each other. I think I'll risk social embarrassment and keep pretending I am truly concerned about all people 
DAVID WEATHINGTON 
Freshman 
K.:enan l-1;~11 

;ACCENT
page 10 Monday, November 13, 1995 


Lunatic Carrey refreshes 'Ace' role 
By ANDREW NUTTING 
Accent Movie Critic 
**.._ 
Out of 4 

T
he American Public receives actors and actresses in four different ways. 
First are those actors that, quite sim­ply, everyone loves. These are your Tom Hankses, your Denzel Washingtons, your Meryl Streeps and Robert De Niros. 
Second are those that are also well liked, but only by those moviegoers who know about them. Here stand many of your foreign actors and actresses (Irene Jacob) and stars of minor independent films (the pre-"Pulp Fiction" Harvey Keitel). 
Thirdly are the actors and actresses who, no matter how hard they try, can­not recapture lost glory (Eddie Murphy, Kevin Costner). 
Lastly are major stars, known to everyone, who split the American public like the death penalty issue: half of America loves 'em, the other half hates 'em. 
I think Keanu Reeves just might fit Like the original "Ace Ventura: Pet decessor. There's bat defecation jokes "Batman Returns." It's also a very good into the last category. Detective," "When Nature Calls" is light and deflowering-virgin jokes, not to thing he did, considering the lack of 
But I know Jim Carrey definitely does. on plot and heavy on gags. The opening mention an entire scene dedicated to a enthusiasm displayed by everyone else Yes, Jim Carrey, the only person to scene is a hilarious spoof of masturbation prank. associated with this movie. Writer/direc­ever have his first four movies debut in "Cliffhanger," in which a poor raccoon Carrey also reaffirms himself as one of tor Steve Oedekerk lessens the role of first place at the box office, is loved by falls to his death from a mountaintop the greatest physical comedians of all the "Ventura girl" to one scene and many and hated by an equal number. despite Ventura's valiant rescue effort. time. While there's nothing as astonish­about a dozen lines. Most of the support­His fans, predominately white males Suffering from a bruised ego, Ventura ing as his slow-motion-then-fast-rewind ing roles were designated by a bunch of from age 5-25, love the rubber-faced retreats to a secluded Buddhist scene in "Pet Detective," he does prance guys you've never heard of and probably physical comedy and manic low-brow monastery, but an African ambassador around with an old man on his shoul­never will. I recognized one actor specif­humor perfected by Carrey. His detrac­convinces him to leave and salvage a ders, wiggle his eye with his finger, ically: another "In Living Color" gradu­tors hate the same rubber-faced physi­lost animal (why go to a Buddhist engage in some wild dancing alongside a ate, the diminutive Tommy Davidson cal comedy and manic low-brow humor monastery? So we can all laugh at a (not a major name by any stretch of the thrust upon them by Carrey. There's just bunch of quiet, ascetic bald guys who imagination), as an African superfighter. no agreement between the people who throw a funky celebration when Ventura 'The Emperor of Elastic Lastly, there's one bizarre in­call Carrey "a comic genius" and those departs. Like I said, short on plot but consistency that troubled me even
Facial Movements and 

who dub him a "hyper goon," and, judg­heavy on gags.) though it shouldn't have. Why would a ing from his fifth film, "Ace Ventura: The recovery of "Shikaka," a sacred the Patron Saint of Potty vehement animal-rights activist who When Nature Calls," there never will be. white bat, would prevent a bloodbath took the time to regurgitate some food
Jokes is back, reprising the 

The Emperor of Elastic Facial between two rival African tribes and for a baby eagle also take the time to Movements and the Patron Saint of Potty preserve the integrity of a nearby role that in January, 1994, snack on a zebra, beat the crap out of a Jokes is back, reprising the role that in European consulate (guess who turns dazed crocodile, and tear through the
made Carrey both a house­

January, 1994, made Carrey both a out to be the bad guy here?). As in the jungle on 4 x 4's and monster trucks? I household name and commander of gar­first, Carrey's Ventura fights through hold name and commander of don't get it. Nevertheless. Carrey is sure gantuan fees (for his next movie, "Cable monster animals and violent warriors, to please his fans (but not affect the
gargantuan fees.' 

Guy," Carrey will earn $20 million). Ace uncovers a corrupt official, and gets a opinions of his foes) with his latest out­Ventura, the only world-famous pet girl, all the while throwing out one-lin­ing, and his box-office stature is well detective, returns, still talking out of his ers about genital size, shooting spitwads tribe of headhunters, and pop out of a summed up by one of Ace Ventura's first butt, driving with half his body outside with a bride-to-be, and saying mechanical rhinoceros stark naked in lines in "When Nature Calls" -"You the car (although now he usually drives "Aaaaaalrighty then!" in as many ways front of some tourists. Maybe Charlie can't stop me no matter who you are." normally). and sporting the funkiest possible. Chaplin plus Larry, Curley, and Moe Andrew Nutting is a Grace Hall fresh­white-guy 'do since Brian Bosworth. Carrey proves yet again that he'll glee­could match this guy. man and movie fan. Email him at This time, Ace's exploits are mildly fun­fully pull jokes out of the toilet to hit You can't blame Carrey for lack of andrew.w.nutting.2@nd.edu if you wish nier than those on his first quest, but not one's most juvenile funny bone. The charisma. It's actually refreshing to see to talk to him about James Bond, because of better direction or writing: punchlines in "When Nature Calls" are him really let loose after his relative Indiana Jones, or any other gems of the it's all thanks to Carrey. cruder yet funnier than those of its pre-tameness in this summer's mega-hit silverscreen. 

• DAYS OF OUR LIVES UPDATE 

Lady--in--white does pesky haunt 
By CHRISTINA FTICSAR and ERIN KELSEY "Days ofOur Lives" Correspondent$ 
T
he week began rather hideously with John and Kristen throwing ice cream and whipped cream at 
· each other among grunts and moans of pleasure. Definitely one of our most forgettable scenes. 
Later, while on their way. to being intimate, Jolm called out "Doc," making Kristen rather upset. They left for Aremid the next day. where they too became believers in the lady­in-white. As they were walk­ing in the gardens, they heard a woman crying and calling out John's name. When the lady-in-.White initially saw John arriving &t Aremid, she said that it was "him'"' and flashed back to John chained up in Maison Blanche. Hopefully, the show will get moving a little with this whole lady-in-white thing. 
Jennifer and Peter made the final plans for their wedding at Aremid. (Yes, Sheila, we do know that Aremid is Dimera spelled backwards). Jack is still determined to stop it all. However, he's the one who should be careful about secrets. Peter has enlisted the cunning of Jude St. Clair to find out any secrets on Jack, and at the end of Friday's show, he was about to tell Peter about Jack and Laura's sexual encounter at the Meadows. Also, Mike found out about Jack and Laura's nasty little secret and was a bit·· disgusted when Laura said Alice Horton also knew; Finally. someone besides us feels that Laura telling Alice about her sex life is gross. 
Tony showed up at Aremid as well, hoping to put his fmal plan into action. Will the lady­in-white be the heroine and save John's butt? Bo and Hope found Sean D.'s box of shells at Gardener's Island and came to an understanding about getting along. They also shared a number of memories. Apparently, this place also held a special place in their hearts. Then again, what place or time of the year doesn't hold such a place in their hearts? 
Hope was later walking home and was surprised by Jude. She had told him she 
needed a few days off to go to h\')r cousin's wedding, so she was catJ.ght off-guard by him. Naively, s.he got into his car where. he proceeded to come on to her rather forcefully. Fortunately, she got out of the car. but only because Peter called Jude and asked him to come to Aremid right away. 
' How much do you want to bet Jude and Hope run into each other there? 
After Sami, Lucas, and Jamie had the same "Austin will want me--no he won't--yes he will" conversation twelve times, Carolyn told Sami she had to move out because her grandfa­ther had chicken pox. Immediately, Sami ran to Austin, and when he told her she couldn't stay with him and that he didn't love her, she went back to her old house. A brilliant move considering she's nine months pregnant, and there is no phone or elec­tricity. Guess who went into labor? 
Lexy and Abc once more at­tempted to find out who her birth parents are. A disguised Celeste was very happy to dis­cover the names were blacked out on her birth certificate. After all, this secret will bring down all of Salem. Is Stefano regaining his memory after he vowed to Marlena that he did not want to do so? He looked at a painting from Aremid and had a flashback. 
A tad of sadness to end this. Frances Reid, our beloved Alice, had a mild stroke, and we'd like to wish her all the best in her recovery. 
,.­
Monday, November 13, 1995 
ACCENT 
page 11 

Relaying the News 
WNDUs Mark Kelley talks about /the biz/ oftelevision news and his experiences as a network anchor 
By DAN CICHALSKl  some stories in print, that won't work  
Assis1ant Acccnl Ediwr  well on television. But, whether they  

 like it or not, people turn to us first,  
Twiee a night every weekday, Mark  although that doesn't mean that's the  
Kolley visits hundreds of homes in  only place they're seeking information."  
tho Miehiana area. lie joins fami­ 
litJs for dinner or in the living room after  A day in the life of a news an­ 
the kids have gone to bed. Anchoring  chorperson differs often without the cer­ 
thtl 6 and 11 o'clock broadcasts of  tainty of a nine-to-live job. "Basically,  
"Newseenter 16" with Maureen  we're nightshift employees. We come in  
McFadden on WNDU, Kelley has become  in the afternoon but that varies. I'm  
part of many oxtended families, bringing  never sure exactly what time I'm going  
them positive news and the toughest  to have to be in and you never know  
tragedies. lie is often the first person to  exactly what you're going to be doing in  
inform viewers in northern Indiana and  the afternoons," Kelley explains.  
southorn Michigan of what has hap­ "That's one of the niee things about the  
pmwd during the day. or at least the one  job, in a way. The hours are uncertain  
they turn to for more information on  but you never know what you're going  
what they have already heard.  to get to do. And it's fun, you get to  
meet a lot of people."  
Originally from southeastern  
Pennsylvania, 50 miles west of  Special series and assignments or  
Philadelphia, Kelley made his way to  important news stories are some of the  
Indiana via upstattl New York. lie grad­ factors that could push the report time  
uatnd from tlw Stattl University of New  up from the regular (but shaky) early  
York's Geneseo campus with a degree in  afternoon start to the work day. A cur­ 
English and writing and then earned his  rent series on surviving fires and  
master's at Syracuse's prestigious S.l.  "Newseenter 16's" helpline, Contact 16,  
Nnwhouse Sehoul of Communications.  are examples of these particular  
instances that require on-the-scene film­ 
After working in Syraeuso for a year,  ing that must be done in advance.  
Kelley carne to Indiana to attend a men­ Regarding the Contaet 16 series. Kelley  
nonite seminary in Goshen. "I wasn't  says, "We've been doing that for a while  
real happy with my job and there had  and it has some real good results. But it  
always been this idea in my head that I  means we have to get places, to inter­ 
wanted to be a priest," he recalls. After  view people, to get some of the pictures  
about a year. however, Kelley realized  that need to be done." And about those  
that was not his plaee. "The studies  commercials that end with him standing  
were interesting and I really enjoyed it  underneath the duck crossing sign,  
hut at the end of that year it was pretty  Kelley laughs. "We've solved some pret­ 
clear that I wasn't going to continue in  ty big problems and duck crossing is  
that direction."  right up there."  
So Kelley landed a job teaching at  When there are no college newspaper  
Goshen College and now lives there with  writers interviewing him or segments to  
his wife, Marty, and their children,  be filmed elsewhere, Kelley spends the  
Kirsten and Tom-a senior and fresh­ afternoon recording radio spots for U93­ 
man in high sehool, respectively. Kelley  FM or other short television bits in the  
and his wife of 23 years are more than  newsroom. In preparing for the evening  
just high school sweethearts, they've  broadeasts, Kelley assists in the writing  
known each other since the seventh  and goes over the stories for the night.  
grudtl.  "You've got to take time to sit down and  
look at what it is you're going to be  
lleading into his ninth year with  doing," he says. Between the 6 p.m. and  
Channnl 16. Kelley has noticed changes  11 p.m. shows, there is usually time to  
in tlw field over the last decade. "It's  get dinner, hut "not always," Kelley  
nmlly mmpntitive. I was lucky to get in  points out. "It's not uncommon that you  
[to WNDUJ. We've had morn turnover  need to go do something."  
Once the late news is finished and Jay  
'That's one of the nice  Leno takes over on NBC, Kelley's day is finally over and he makes it home at  
things about the job, in a  about 12:30 a.m. This is one reason he  
way. The hours are uncertain  and his collegues prefer summer in South Bend. From April through  
but you never know what  October, when Indiana is on the same  
you're going to get to do. And  time schedule as Chicago rather than Detroit, the late news airs at 10 p.m. 
it's fun, you get to meet a lot of  The differenee "is a pain." Kelley  
people.'  admits, but he still favors the summer schedule even though it takes away an  
hour of preparation time between  
Mark Kelley  shows.  
Another highlight of the television  
news business that Kelley enjoys are the  
experiences he has as a result of some  
lately than most stations," he said. This  of the stories he has eovered. The 1988  
inerHase in competition in television  Democratic National Convention in  
rnndia has raised the expHctations exec­ Atlanta exposed the local Indiana broad­ 
utives have for applieants. "I'm glad to  caster to the national outlook on the  
see it go in that direction rather limn the  news. "Among other things, I realized  
otlwr direction," he addnd.  that I had been inclined to take whatev­ 
er national correspondents report as the  
There seems to be a "silly competi­ way things really are," he recalls. But  
tion" that goes on btltween print and  when he wrote his reports for the ob­ 
tfllevision journalism, Kelley says.  servers back here in Michiana, Kelley  
"They [ rwwspapers and magazim~s I play  was amazed at the differences between  
an important role. Obviously, you can  his view and the writing for national  
do some things in print, you can do  eoverage. "I was observing the same  


The .Mark Kelley File 
Born: October 20, 1949, New Holland, PA 
Home: Goshen, IN 

Education: SUNY, Geneseo campus; Newhouse School of 
Communications, Syracuse University Family: Wife Marty; daughter Kirsten, 18; son Tom, 15 Hobbies: "Following the kids around," walking, reading 
thing they were observing and I was talking to people like they were talking to people so I was surprised at the con­trast. That was an eye-opener for me," he said. "It makes you realize that there is that fact about any reporting that's done-it boils down to the individual." 
Meeting Hosa Parks also left an great impression on Kelley. Before going on the air to talk with the woman recog­nized for sparking the Montgomery bus boycott. Kelley spoke with her about that day in 1955 when she refused to give up her seat for a white passenger. It wasn't just because she was tired, as the story goes these days. "She said, 'You know, I don't know how that got started. The reason I didn't get up is because I shouldn't have to stand up. It's wrong for me to have to stand up and give up my seat just because I was black and this man in the aisle was white. That's why I didn't stand up,"' Kelley recalls. "That was actually the best talk I've had with anybody since I've been in this business. She was amazing." 
But, as can be expected, there are some stories that take a toll on those who cover them. In describing an inci­dent like last year's Halloween plane crash in Roselawn, Indiana, Kelley said, "They're real hard and you know a lot of things that you can't ever tell the public, there's just no delicate way to talk about it. You really struggle in settings like that, knowing what to say, how far to go, how to say it." 

Like several personalities in the televi­sion business. professionals on Capitol Hill. and parents nationwide, Kelley is worried about the power of television and has taken a position on the subject. ''I'm really concerned about television reporting. I think it gets too sensation­al," he said. "I really think we should teach television literacy. It's a powerful medium." And about the O.J. Simpson fiasco? "I think that was the most amazing phenomenon I've ever seen, looking at it as a reporter. It was so much bigger than any one category you could try to put it in. That thing blew my mind." 
As the afternoon wore on. the news­room began to come to life and Mark Kelley prepared to go to work. "It's amazing to think that this station was started by Father Hesburgh and Father Joyce," Kelley says. "Then they brought in the satellite dishes and the trucks and look at what we've beeome." 


By MIKE NADEL Alsociarcd Press 
CHICAGO 
With Dennis Rodmat:t or without him. with Luc Longley imitating a real NBA center or simply taking up space, with hit players contributing or just looking on. there's beenno beating the Bulls. . 
At 5-0, Chicago is the last of the NBA's unbeaten teams and is off to its best start ever. 
The Bulls have won with first-half blowouts, third-quar· ter blitzkriegs and fourth­quarter comebacks. They've won with surprising perfor~ mances by Dickey Simpkins, Jud Buechler and · Bill Wennington. Coach Pbfl Jackson admits they've won partly because of an early schedule full of teams "either struggling or restructuring or out of whack because of injuries." 
Mostly, though, they've won for the reasons nearly every· body thought they would: Given a full training camp to mesh with his teammates, their star bas been vintage Michael Jordan; and Scottie Pippen remains one of basket­ball's gifted all-around play· ers. 
"Michael and Pip," Portland coach P.J. Carlesimo said Saturday after his team 
The Observer • SPORTS Monday, November 13, 1995 

Champions run for more than glory 
By BERT ROSENTHAL 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

His tender embrace at the finish line and the protective arm he wrapped around her shoulder on the victory stand underscored the poignancy of their triumphs in the New York City Marathon for the second straight year. 
German Silva and Tegla Loroupe ran not only as defending champions, they ran to keep promises to the dead ­to his father, to her sister. 
Silva's victory Sunday in 2 hours, 11 minutes was 21 sec­onds quicker than last year, when the Mexican made a wrong turn about a quarter­mile from the finish before being redirected by a po­liceman to beat fellow country­man Benjamin Parades by two seconds in the closest finish in the race's 26-year history. 
This year, Silva beat Paul Evans of Britain, who finished second in 2:11:05, with William Koech of Kenya third in a per­sonal-best 2:11:19. 
But even though Silva made no wrong turns, there still was plenty of personal drama for the winners, who also over­came record-low temperatures and fierce winds. 
Silva. 27, dedicated the race to his 70-year-old father, Agapito, who died of cancer in July. Loroupe, 22, was running in memory of her 33-year-old sister Albina, who died Oct. 30 after severe stomach hemor­rhaging and left behind four children ranging in age from 10 to 1. 
Before Albina died, she had wanted Loroupe "to fulfill her responsibility in New York," and the marathoner had promised not to return home to Kenya until after the race. 
"When I was training I could see her face and she was smil­ing," Loroupe said. "Even to­day, she was still smiling. I ran a good race for her, but when I finished, I was sad because when I go home next week I'm going to see the children but not my sister. She gave me a lot of strength and encourage­ment." 
Silva became the first repeat champion since Italy's Orlando Pizzolato won in 1984 and 1985, while Loroupe became the first woman to win two in a row since Norway's Grete Waitz, a nine-time champion, won her fifth straight in 1986. 
Loroupe's time was 2:28:06 -29 seconds slower than in 1994. She was followed by world champion Manuela Machado of Portugal in 2:30:37 and first-time marathoner Lieve Slegers of Belgium in 2:32:08. 
Silva said his emotions were the same as Loroupe's, be­cause of their dual anguish. 
"It is something I have in common with Tegla," he said. "We feel together. 
"I was running for my father. He was in my mind. He's with me everywhere. I was doing this in his memory. When 1 re­member him, he gives me motivation. I'm sure wherever my father is, he's happy and proud." 
Loroupe, who said she would take care of her sister's chil­dren, was grieving the past two weeks. But she pushed aside her heartbreak to win the women's division by about 750 meters. 
The temperature at the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge in Staten Island at the start of the 26-mile, 385-yard event was 40 degrees, matching the pre­vious low, first set in 1981 and equaled in 1989 and 1992. The winds were gusting up to 55-60 mph, and the wind chill factor was a bitter 18 degrees. 
That forced the field of approximately 27.900 to don warm weather gear. 
Olga Appell, the only elite American in the field, wore long bicycle shorts, a T-shirt cut off at the sleeves, long socks on her arms. a headband and sunglasses. She also greased her face and legs with oil. 
None of that seemed to help. Appell, who went out unusually fast and built a huge early lead, dropped out before the 13th mile. 
The wind was very fickle, swirling throughout. 
At the start, it was at the runners' backs. Crossing through Brooklyn, the runners were faced with headwinds. 
And so it went, as they raced through the city's five bor­oughs. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. ar 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 

Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise! Early Specials! 7 Days $279! Includes 15 Meals & 6 Parties! Great Beaches/Nightlife! Prices Increase 11/21 & 12115! Spring Break Travel1-800-678­6386 
Spring Break! Panama Cityl Early Specials! 8 Days Ocearwiew Room With Kitchen $129! Walk To Best Bars! Key West $259! Cocoa Beach Hilton $169! Prices Increase 11/21 & 12/1511-800-678·6386 
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break Specials! 111% Lowesl Price Guarantee! 7 Nights Air From Soulh Bend & Hotel From $419! Book Early! Save $100 On Food/Drinks! Spring Break Travel1-800-678­6386 
WEEKLY MIDWAY TAVERN 810W4TH MISH. MON THE JAZ2 FIRM 7:30·9:30 WED OPEN MIKE/JAM 9:00 THURS IRISH MUSIC 9 2BLKS S.OF 100 CTR 255-0458 NEED ID 
Wanted!! Individuals, Student Organizations to Promote SPRING BREAK Earn MONEY and FREE TRIPS CALL INTER-CAMPUS PRO­GRAMS http://www.icpt.com 1·800-327 -6013 
Traveling east on Rt 80/Pa TP past Susqu. River for xmas, I need a ride-Call Jared@ X0508 
ILOST & FOUND I 
FOUND: port. CO player. Call Peter @ 4·3671 Please Describe 
'LOST' Black Pagemart Motorola Pager. Has been reported lost to the com· pany and is now inactive. Its return would be appreciated. If found please call Nikole at 4-1265. Thankyou. 
Lost-Unique 1967 HS Class Ring All Gold-No stones-Julie·4-2706 
Found: Gold bracelet with one benVbroken link on path near North Dining Hall AND 2 rings on counter by sinks in 1st floor women's bathroom in O'Shag. Yours? Call Nicki X4803 
""'LOST .... 
SMALL GOLD HOOP 
EARRING 
CALL3709 
LOST: my prize posession; fuzzy plaid J.Crew gloves in 101 DeBartolo on the day of the 
PHYSIC test. I flunked the test, at least let me have my glolves back. 
HUGH REWARD-it's going to get cold soon, Deborah X4320 
WANTED 
''' FREE TRIPS & CASH • • • Find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with America's #1 Spring Break compa­ny! Sell only 15 trips and travel free! Choose Cancun, Bahamas. Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL NOW! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAV­EL (800)95-BREAKI 
TRAVEL ABROAD AND WORK­
Make up to $25-45/hr. teaching 
basic conversational English in 
Japan, Taiwan, or S. Korea. No 
teaching background or Asian lan­
guages required, For information 
call: (206)632-1146 ext. J55841 
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT ­Students Neededl Fishing Industry. Earn up to $3.000-$6,000+ per month. Room and Board! Transporationl Male or Female. No experience necessary. Call (206)545-4155 extA55842 
Roomate needed for 2nd sem. 
Male Grad. stu. pre!. Nice 2br apt. 
near campus $280/mo. 277-3107 
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING· Seasonal & full-time employment available at National Parks, Forests & Wildlife Preserves, Benefits + bonuses! Call: 1-206~45-4804 ext. N55842 $35.000/YR. INCOME potential. Reading books. Toll Free 1-800­898-9778 Ext. R-2013 for details. 

TUTOR FOR HIGH SCHOOL SPANISH. CALL HANHPHAM 277· 5474. ALSO, TUTOR FOR SCHEME COMPUTER PROGRAM 
(MAC). 
1 Time Cash Offer Transfer computer files from Mac to IBM. Set up PageMaker 5.0 in IBM. Great pay. 273-1952 
Will Pay $ For Used Mac Nonprofit needs used computers. Good price. 273-1952 
WANTED FOR XMAS GIFT: Video tapes of 1995 NO Football Season. NAME YOUR PRICE. 402-551-8436 
Male or female: Wanl to earn some $$'s? Dispose of our leaves. 272­4404 
FOR RENT 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR NO 
232-2595 
THAT PRETTY PLACE. Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football wknds. 5 rooms wilh pri­vate baths. located in Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. 1-800·418­9487 
LAKE MICHIGAN LAKEFRONT RENTAL ON SILVER BEACH, ST. JOSEPH, MI. NEWLY RENOVAT­ED 2 BR HOUSE BEAUTIFUL SUNSETS-1/2 HR FROM SO. BEND, CABLE TV, FULLY EQUIPPED, SLEEPS 6 TO 
8. GREAT FOR HOME GAMES OR ALUMNI FUNCTIONS. (708)478­0736 
Comfortable 2 Bdrm home. 1 mi. to campus. $450/mo. Call Chuck Majcher at 273-0860. 
ROOMMATE W~~TED: To share 2-bdr. house w/ F Grad student and dog. near campus, wash/drier. quiet neighborhood. $150/mo +. Call Jackie 232-7970 ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE HOME FOR 
ND-SMC EVENTS, VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. CALL 272-6194 AM OR 232·9620 PM 
& ASK FOR SANDY. 
Need 1 roommate now &1 more next sem. $195 Turtle Creek 273­2366 
6 BDRM HOME NEAR NO, NEXT FALL.272-6306 
FOR SALE 
NO Ski Team T-Shirtsl 
.................. 
Really cool and only $10! Call Potter @ 232-2955 today!!! 
Great for you, your roomie, or Chrislmas presents! 
SPEAKER: liner Phase Studio Monitor ... like new. Great for parties & bands. $250 OBO. Jeff 233­2460. 
PERSONAL 
0o0o0o0oOo0o0o0o0oOo0 0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0 
AAA MEETING This Wednesday All are welcome to joinII Wednesday, 11/15/95 Library Auditorium 9:30pm 
0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0 0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center 
We're open for your convenience!!! Mon-Thur: 7:30am -Midnight Fri.: 7:30am-7:00pm Sat.: Noon-6:00pm Sun.: Noon-Midnight 
(closed home football Saturdays) 
0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0 
QUALITY COPIES, QUICKLY!!! THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0 
Jen Weber.... can I borrow an ear­ring? I hear you have a siragle one! 
-lunkers. lunkers. lunkers. 

"WANTED: WHITE SOX FANS Past, Present, & Future(?) lor ad. class focus group on Nov. 15 (Wed). Vent your baseball blues for Peanuts/Crackerjacks!I! Call NANCY 4·2456 
tweedle·dumb .. ,will you sing The Wild Rover for me again some· time ... tweedle-dee 
Calif. actress-writer wile & photog­rapher husband wish to adopt new­born. Will provide love, nurturing environ., educ., financial security. Hollywood Hills home has large back yard and loving dog. Call 818/241-5535 collect. Legal & Confidential. 
ADOPTION .. , INTERESTED IN HEARING MORE?? Warm, professional Indiana couple, lots of experience with children, would love to talk to you about what we can offer your precious child. Stability, nurturing, love of learning, travel, lots of extended family, and lull· time mom are just some of lhe things that your child would experi­ence in our home. Interested in hearing more? CALL US (day or night). Expenses paid. Theresa & Lee 1-800-600-8428. 
$5.50 HAIRCUT 
VITO'S BARBER SHOP 1525 LINCOLNWAY WEST 
233-4767 
ADOPTION A wonderful home awaits your 
baby. Happily married. financially secure couple will give much love. 
Expenses paid. Call Margaret or 
Peter at 800-529-8386. 
HI, SEAN 
It'll be finel -Casi Jones 
LISA is a queen and all men want 
her. 

Cheryl and Clara -thanks for a 
wonderful breakfast. :-) K 
Wah-wah! Miss ya, BM.I Sh'up Kir. Tim. I'm a woman. 
Mike Rieder-Happy Birthday! Love, Sarah 
HEY PEE WEE!!! Turn off the stereo-it's three in the morning! 
Kiddo. 
You can always ask why, you just might not get an answer. I'll be gettign the word from HQ soon, I'll let you know where lhen. 
-An lllinios Farmer 
Bridgey -hope you had a good weekend. 
Tweedle-dumb...Where did all the people go? The people with the cheese? They were just here!..Tweedle-dee. 
Kelly, A Sox game, huh? I'm there. David 
I feel like Desmond Tutu! 
Can we say humiliated? Humiliation? Disgust? It's awful. l'rn pathetic. Leave me alone. 
It took a little while but the record stays perfect. We've really got to work on those bulleyes though. 
Don't forget! SAW dinner tonight, 5:45, North Dining Hall. See you 
there! 
Margarina Homecoming Queena! Congrats on your hot date with Pete this weekend. Try to avoid finger fun. OK? 
8 days until The Ghost of Tom Joad 
ND/SMC Right-to life Next meet­ing tomorrow at 7:30 pm in Montgomery Theatre. We will be discussing January's trip to DC. If you're interested in going to DC but can'l make the meeting, please leave a message at 1-9006. 
Hey, are you a hoi, buff, yet sophis­licated Slovak manly man? If so. call Elenka for a great candlelight dinner for two at 4774 ... 
To the girls of 124 Farley-"llove 
you guys."·Guess who? 
DO NOT run the same filler twice! 

Monday, November 13, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
.­

• COLLEGE fOOTBALL 
Michigan replacement coach given permanent position 
By HARRY ATKINS 
Associated Press 
ANN AHBOH, Mich. 

Lloyd Carr, the interim coach who has guided Michi­gan to an 8-2 record so far this 
season, will be hired us t h e Wolverines' permanent c o a c h Monday. 
Sources close to the 


u n i v e r s i t y Lloyd Carr 
told The Associated Press on Sunday night a campus news confer­ence has been called for 10 a.m., when the appointment will be made official. 
Carr was given the job last spring after Gary Moeller was forced to resign, following a drunken incident in a subur­ban Detroit restaurant. 
Carr, 50, had been an assis­tant for 15 years, serving un­der Bo Schembechler and Moeller, most recently as assistant head coach and defensive coordinator. 
He began his college coach­ing career as coach of defen­sive backs at nearby Eastern Michigan in 1976 before join­ing Moeller's staff at Illinois in 1978. Carr joined Schembech­ler's staff as secondary coach in 1980. He has been in Ann Arbor since. 

Under Carr, the Wolverines opened the season by beating Virginia 18-17 in the Pigskin Classic on Scott Dreisbach's 15-yard touchdown pass to Mercury Hayes on the last play. 
Michigan steadily moved up through the rankings. Then Dreisbach broke his right thumb and was replaced at quarterback by Brian Griese in the fifth game. 
The Wolverines have won 
four of six since. A startling 19-13 loss at home to Northwestern was accepted with polite skepticism, given the Wildcats' surprising suc­cess this season. 
But a 28-25 upset at Michigan State prompted talk Carr wouldn't get the perma­nent job after losing to the Spartans. 
Athletic director Joe Rober­son, however, apparently liked the way Carr handled himself. He also had to be swayed by the high esteem in which the players hold Carr. 
On Saturday, the Wolverines (8-2, 4-2 Big Ten) beat Purdue 5-0 in a sea of mud at Michigan Stadium. Winds gust­ing to 50 mph created a wind chill of minus-'S degr{)es. 
Instead of trying to force plays that could succeed only on a dry field, Carr played the game like a chess master. 
He instructed his captains to get the wind at thek backs if possible at the coin toss. They did, and it paid off with a 25­yard field goal. As the game wore on, that score became critical. 
The Wolverines tacked on a fourth-quarter safety for the final margin of victory. 

You are not a fllOOCh. But when a hole in your pocket renders you changeless, you r e l u c t a n t l y call the folks collect. You dial 1 800 CALL ATT. Your pangs of guilt are minima/. 
I 800 CALL ATT always costs less than t-Hoo-conEcT: 
.\lwuys works rmm un) phone . .-\nd ulwU)'S gets you the reliuhle ..~I~r Network. l's<~ it U"IU.'IH'l'<'l• you',.<' f~/.1' <'tlllljJIIS, 
Know the Code. I 800 CALL ATT. That's Your 1tue Choice;'" 

AT&T 
Your True Choice 
• l'or interstate caUs. Promotions l'Xcluded. 
01995 A1&T

l·HOO·COil.ECT is a registered trademark of MCI. 

PREY· 

TEAM RECORD POINTS IOUS 1. Nebraska (45) 9-0-0 1530 2. Ohio State f12) 9-0-0 1476 2 3. Florida (5) 8-0-0 1458 3 4. Tennessee 8-1-0 1350 4 5. Northwestern 8-1-0 1295 5 6. Florida State 7-1-0 1239 6 7. Kansas State 8-1-0 1172 7 B. Notre Dame 8·2-0 1105 8 9. Colorado 7·2·0 963 9 10. Texas 8-1-0 950 11 11. Southern Cal 6·1·1 885 12 12. Michigan 7-1-1 772 13 13. Virginia 7·2·0 743 14 14. Arkansas 7-3-0 725 15 15. Kansas 7-2-0 685 10 16. Oregon 7-2-0 649 17 17. Alabama 7-2-0 617 16 18. Texas A&M 5-2-0 521 18 19. Penn State 6·3.0 438 19 20. Virginia Tech 6-3-0 413 21 21. Auburn 7-2·0 405 20 22. Washington 5-3-1 275 22 23. Syracuse 6-2-o 147 23 24. Clemson 6·3·0 122 24 
-
25. San Diego St. 7-2-0 53 




(We offer discounts for ND, SMC students/) 
Roadsldt Sttvlct • jumps tarts • Futl Dtllvtrles J Tlrt Changing • Wrecktd Auto Tows 
Only 2 minutes from campus/ 
We have the lowest prices In town, and are always there when you need us, 24 hours a day! 
\\'e accept checks and credit cards! 
Spring Break 1996 TRAVEL FREE!! 
Jamaica. Cancun. Bahamas 
panama Cby. pavtona. Padre *"Great low, low prices *"Free Trip on only 15 sales 
Call for a FREE ~ jnformatjon packet I .,.....,­
~ Sun Splash Tours u 1-800-426-771 0 
page 14 
-. 
• COllEGE fOOTBAll 
George surges ahead of other Heisman candidates 
By RUS1Y MILLER they came against. Illinois was Associated Press ranked lOth in the country in total defense, allowing just 109 COLUMBUS, Ohio yards rushing and 17.5 points a 
None of the greatest running game. backs in Ohio State's pantheon George had 105 yards and 18 of Heisman Trophy winners points, just in the third quarter. and All-Americans ever did Illinois defensive coordinator what Eddie George did on a Denny Marcin said, "I've been gloomy Saturday at Ohio coaching for 32 years and have Stadium. not seen a back like that. I 
And it might have been hope not to see one again." enough to win his own Heisman. You could fast-forward 
through the rest of the game's 
George rushed for an Ohio highlights: Pepe Pearson's 4­State record 314 yards on 36 yard TD run, Hoying's 14-yard carries as the second-ranked scoring pass to Dimitrious Buckeyes made up for years of Stanley and a Buckeye defense frustration against Illinois with that throttled the Illini. a 41-3 victory. Just a week earlier, Illinois 
"You almost wanted to sit had rushed for 244 yards in a there and enjoy the moment," 26-7 victory over Iowa; against quarterback Bob Hoying said. Ohio State, they managed 59 became coach at Ohio State, 
"But the referee was there to yards. Robert Holcombe had including four in a row in Ohio blow the whistle to get you run for more than 100 yards in Stadium. That hadn't happened started again." each of the last three games; since Illinois won six in a row 
George, a senior tailback he had 14 carries for 28 yards in Columbus from 1919 to from Philadelphia, made Ohio against Ohio State. 1929. State's l,OOOth intercollegiate Temperatures in the 30s, George now has 1,592 yards game one for the ages. snow flurries and high wind with two regular-season and 
affected punts and passes. Ohio one bowl game remaining. At 
Sixth in the country with an State, averaging 289 yards a his current pace, he would average of 142 rushing yards a game passing, had 118, due as have 1,910 yards through the game coming in, George picked much to the absence of injured regular season. No back with up 180 yards in the first half. flanker Terry Glenn as the ele­2,000 yards in the regular sea­
He broke Keith Byars' Ohio ments. son has ever failed to win the State record of 274 yards on a Heisman. 
13-yard touchdown run mid­Besides, George didn't need "That's probably the finest way through the third quarter. much help. He even led the individual effort I've seen out of Byars' big day also came Buckeyes with four receptions a running back," Ohio State against Illinois -in 1984, the for 32 more yards. coach John Cooper said. "If last time Ohio State played in a "We've got two games left, there's any player out there in Rose Bowl. two big games," he said. ''I'm America who's better than 
George scored three times, not really concerned about the Eddie George or more deserv­all in the third quarter, once on Heisman. I'm more concerned ing of individual awards than a 74-yard sprinter's burst and about the Rose Bowl and how Eddie George -and I've been 
another time when he leaped in we're going to fmish the year." coaching 33 years -I don't the corner of the end zone and Ohio State {10-0, 6-0 Big Ten) know who he is." extended all 6-foot-3-inches to maintained the inside track to pull in a 13-yard TD pass from the Rose Bowl while keeping Illinois strong safety Tyrone 
Hoying. pace with No. 5 Northwestern Washington said it all: "To sum The yards and touchdowns in the Big Ten standings. it up, they had the hot knife weren't as startling as who The victory also ended a and we were butter." 
Have something to say? Use Observer 
-
classifieds. 
1:~J..IJII (~()J..IJIIN 
Monday 11/13/95 
BETA ALPHA PSI will host a presentation by State Farm Insurance on "Document Imaging: The Paperless Audit." All majors welcome to attend. Beta Alpha Psi attendance is mandatory. Thursday, November 16, 6:00 p.m. at Jordan Auditorium. 
The KUNG FU CLUB is meeting Sundays, 10:00-Noon at the Rockne Memorial in room 
301. John Yo~ng is the instructor. Contact Kevin Tjerksen for information 634-3311. 
AIKIDO CLUB-Pizza Party-November 17 after practice. Contact Dee Ann at 631-5382. 
DliS service is provided for you by tile Club Coordination Council. 6314078 206 LaFortune 

In Oregon
this is sexy. 

4 T B 

Long's Peak Parka'M 
I
. ."~:1f

Nothing keeps up with Mother Nature's 
consistent ever-changing moods quite like a 
Columbia Interchange'" Parka-featured here 
in our Long's Peak Parka'." Includes a zip-out 
fleece liner, Radial Sleeve"' design, storm 
r 

flap, securitypockets and drawcord at waist. 
Columbia & 
SportSWearCompany
• .ry
MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY 10AMT09 PM SATURDAY 10AMT06PM SUNDAY NOONTOSPM 
L 

Mr. Tom Skelly 
Managing Partner ofFinancial Services Anderson Consul~ing 
Tuesday, November 14, 7:00p.m. Room I s8 College of Business Administration 
All MBA's, Seniors, and Juniors interested 
are invited and encouraged to attend. 

page 15

Monday, November 13, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS 
• NFL 
Green Bay's domination of Chicago continues 
1\y ARNIE STAPLETON 
Assnciat•d Press 
GHEEN BAY, Wis. 

Bretl Favre's left ankle was terribly sore Sunday. His right arm never felt better. 
Favre tied a team record with a eareer-best five touchdown passes as the Green Bay Paekers won a 35-28 shootout with Chicago to move into a tie for the NFC Central lead with the Bears at 6-4. 
Favre, his severely sprained ankle hnavily wrapped, extend­nd his NFL-Ieading streak to 55 eonsneutive starts, eompleting 25 of 33 passes for 336 yards and no interceptions. 
"I thought last night I might play. But we didn't make the decision until this morning," said Favre, still in some pain. 
"It bothered me a little bit, but the tape job was almost like a cast," Favre said. "I was favoring it a little bit. I didn't scramble on some plays where I probably eould have. 
"We didn't run as many keeps as I usually do -the play-action stuff, rollouts. That's a big part of our offense. When we said we cut the game plan down, we did. But guys were making plays." 
Favre connected with half-

Ever wonder how your name and birthdate reveal your character and destiny? 
Suzan Stars' knows. 
t , I 
h .. l' rut 
' ( , c's 
t,-~ r. 
have 
il.tVVtO\\ 

I'·.'­
l. I li<~V<' 1o \\car Suzan Stars', Numerologist 

LaFortune Ballroom = Nov 16 == 7 pm Free Admission & Refreshments 


back Edgar Bennett for scores of 17 and 16 yards on screen passes, the second coming with 
9:17 left to break a 28-28 tie. 
He also had TDs of 29 and 44 yards to Robert Brooks and a 1­yard toss to fullback Dorsey Levens. Brooks caught six pass­es for 138 yards. 
Favre was hurt last week against Minnesota, as was Reggie White, who also made a remarkable comeback Sunday. 
White, ·who stretched a right knee ligament last week, missed a start for just the sec­ond time in his 11-year NFL career. 
But he came in on the second 
series and played most of the 
game, sharing a sack, tipping a 
pass and inspiring a defense 
that held Erik Kramer out of 
the end zone in a desperation 
drive that stalled at the 
Packers' 14 as time expired. 
White was the last player to 
leave blustery Lambeau Field, 
thrusting his green and gold 
helmet into the air over and 
ove'r as the crowd of 59,996 
braving 15-degree wind chills 
and intermittent flurries roared 
its approval. 
White, who played with a 
knee brace for the first time in 
his career, said it was Favre's 
return that mattered most. 
"If they'd have said, 'Reggie, 
you have to pick, you or Brett? 
I'd have picked Brett because 
he's something special to this 
team and he showed it today," 
White said. 
White has never missed any 
of his 172 games in his career, 
and he wasn't about to sit out 
the 150th meeting of the 
longest rivalry in NFL annals. 
"He fought me tooth and nail on the brace, but he wasn't going to play without it," Pack­ers coach Mike Holmgren said. "Finally he said, 'OK.' He re­minded me of a big little kid in third grade." 

Announcing the Introductory Seminarfor the Concentration in Philosophy and Literature 
ENGL 410A:o1 (#3251) • PHIL 409:01 (#3250) 
Philosophy, Tragedy, andIrony 
Tuesday-Thursday 2:45-4:25 • 4 credit hours Profs. Gerald Bruns and Stephen Watson 
This intensive 4 credit seminar is the entry course to the Concentration in Philosophy and Literature. It will pursue interdisciplinary approaches to 
literary, theoretical. and philosophical texts. This course will explore some versions of the idea that (1) philosophy originates as a response to the crises ofjustice and rationality represented most fully in tragic drama, and that ( 2) irony is the form oflife proposed by philosophy as a guarantee against ttagedy. Students will be asked to write a series ofbrief responses to readings in addition to a final seminar paper ofabout 2,soo-J,ooo words. Reading list will include works by: Sophocles, Plato, Beckett, lrigaray. Holder/in, Nietzsche, Bakhtin, Cixous. 
Permission required from Prof. Krzysztof, Director of Concentration, 631-5637 
Flyer describing the concentration is available in the English Department. 
TillS COURSE IS OPEN TO JUMORS AND SOPHOMORES 
Although neither Favre nor White were 100 percent, they proved too much for Chicago. 
"Favre did a heck of a job under the circumstances," sighed a dejected Chicago coach Dave Wannstedt. "He made the plays. Give him cred­it." 
The Bears, swept for the sec­ond straight year by their bitter foe, drove to the Packers' 22 with two minutes left. But on fourth-and-2, safety LeHoy But­ler intercepted Kramer in the end zone. 
They got the ball back with 
1:13 left at their own 36 and drove to the 14 before Kramer threw three straight incomple­tions into the end zone. lie tin­ished 23 of 38 for 318 yards and two TDs. 
Jeff Graham caught seven passes for 108 yards and Curtis Conway had six for 126 and TDs of 21 and 46 yards. 
The Bears broke a 21­21 tie on Rashaan Salaam's 1­yard touchdown dive with 2:47 left in the third period. But the Packers took just 20 seconds to tie it back up. 
Hookie Antonio Freeman returned the kick a career-best 45 yards and Favre hooked up with Brooks for a 44-yard blitz­beating score on first down. 
"He was just Favre. He made a lot of things happen, he made the plays," said cornerback James Burton. 
Ct.law•:hlil 
t:'n 

~':dCt''>:"•C C,')··~•otr\~~ !.-:: -''·····" . , 



Lecture Event 

.. Hiroshima: Necessary Evil?11 
Tues. Nov. 14 8:00PM Morrissey Lobby 
Refreshments to be served 
.. 
-
... 

-~---------------------------------~---------------------­
page 16 
-. 
Interhall 
continued from page 20 
marched down the field by way of their predictable running style. 
To complete the drive, quar­terback Rodriguez snuck into the endzone from a yard out, giving the Green Wave a 6-0 lead. The ensuing two point conversion failed. 
On the very next drive. Flanner surprised everyone by breaking from their usual run­oriented style. Tailback Dave Lichota took the first down handoff and ran for 11 yards. Next, fullback Steve Hrovat pounded up the middle for a yard. 
With Fisher thinking run, the Cocks decided to open it up. Lupo took the snap and 

The Observer/Brent Tadsen 

Senior def~nseman Garry Gruber (2) was ejected for fighting (knocking 
out) an Oh1o State player.  
Hockey  defense put the clamps on the punchless Buckeye offense.  
continued from page 20  "The key tonight was not making the critical mistake,"  


PLAYOFFS 
Sund~ 
Nov.1 

5 Fisher Fieher 6 Flanner 
ri,M%11..!.!1.1., 
Stepan field 

The Observer • SPORTS 
Lupo made a valiant effort. His second effort allowed him to get outside of the pile and obtain the necessary yardage. This determination proved fatal. though, as he coughed up the ball. Fisher then kneeled the ball, forcing overtime. 
Interhall overtime permits each team four chances from the 10 yard line to get into the endzone. This is where the excitement began to mount. The defenses were able to stop their offensive counterparts short on each of their first two rounds. of attempts. Flanner won the toss for the third round and elected to go first. On their first down, Lupo rolled out to the right. Under pressure, he tried to needle a pass between 2 Fisher defenders. His pass, however, was intercepted by defensive back Mike Doherty, and Fisher regained the ball. Doherty also stopped Flanner in the second round of overtime by means of another inter­ception. 
On first down, Nelson ran for 4 yards. Second down was no different. Again, it was a pitch to Nelson around the right side. This time, he took the ball 6 yards into the endzone, scoring the decisive touchdown and giving Fisher its 1995 Interhall Championship. 
, p
Men s airings 
1 Zahm 8 Carroll 
1 Zahm 
J
,
5 Fisher 
1 p.m 
4 Keenan 5 Fisher 
Sunday at Stepan 
3Aiumnl 
6 Flenner 6 Flannar 7 Stanford 
2p.m 
, 20111on 
7 Stanford 

yardage, and quarterback Lupo came through by picking up a vital first down on 4th and 1. 
However, after more running, the Fisher defense forced another 4th and 1 situation, this time with less than 2 minutes remaining. Flanner again turned to the quarterback sneak, and 
MBNA, the world's second­largest lender through bank credit cards, is seeking candidates for its exclusive Management Development Program. Intensive, diverse, and designed to maximize the future success of each participant, the program is an ideal entree into a leadership position with a dynamic and innovative financial institution. 
For more information, write to Karen Yanick, MBNA America, 400 Christiana Road, Newark, DE 19713. Or call 1-800-637-2070. 
Please attend our presentation and reception to learn more about MBNA and The Management Development Program: 
Morris Inn Alumni Room Monday, November 13 
6:30 p.m. -9:30 p.m. 
MBNA's Notre Dame alumni look forward to meeting you. 
AIBN" 
AMERICA" 
400 Christiana Road Newark, DE 19713 
MBNA Amt'tica ts an Equal Employmem Opportumty/Affirmativc At.lton Emplo)w MBNA"' and MBNA America" are federally rcgtstcrcd servile marks of MBNA Amenca Bank, N.A.. «:ll9Q) MBNAAmerka Bank, !\I.A. 
CLAD I 0·2668-94 

-
~----------------------------~ 
Free Pregnancy Test Referrals to Support Agencies Confidential Counseling 
Call 234•0363 
(24 hours} 

SOUTH BEND 4l7 N. St. Louis Blvd. (Convenient to Campus) 

the 4-0 victory. 

After struggling for the most part this season, the defense raised their play to ·another level on Saturday night. Sophomore goaltender Matt Eisler recorded his first career shutout, while the rest of the said Poulin. "Any mistake we've made this year seems like it's ended up in the back of the net. Fewer mental break­downs enabled us to get the victory." 
For Poulin and the Irish, it was well worth the wait. 


I 
~ 
I 
Monday, November 13, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
1 
• WOMEN'S VOLLEYBAll 
Irish finish Big East season undefeated 
By BETSY BAKER Spores Wrirer 
The 13th-ranked Notre Dame volleyball team has showed no respeet to its newly established r.onfernnee opponents. The 24­6 Irish just went it and swept through thn Big East likn a IHIITicarw. 
Tlw Irish linislwd their regu­lar season with eonferenee vie­torit~s over ProvidtJnce on SaLurday and Boston College on Sunday. eompleting tlwir unde­feated Big East rncord at 11-0. Ending the season as the only undefnuted in the eonfercnee givns the Irish the pole position going into next weekend's Big East Championship, which will he held at tlw Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. 
The Irish roenive a bye, along with seeond-placo Pittsburgh. and will play the winnnr of the mateh between fourth-seed Villanova and fil'lh-seed St. Johns. 
Although a Big East Champi­onship would reinstatn the con­fnrenen reign that the Irish have become so aecustomed to as snnn by their dominanee of 
Quit for the Day! Quit for the Year! 
Quit for Lifel 
Smoking Cessation Workshop Thursday November 16 
Student Health Center Room 300: 4:00-S:OOp.m. 
Call 631-7336 to register Contact Len Hickman, Ph.D. University Counseling Center 
r information about the worksh or smoke cessation 
the Midwestern Collegiate Conferenee, the main impor­tance of next weekend's tour­namlmt lies in clinching the automatic bid the NCAA tour­nament. 
"We've been preparing for the NCAA tournament since the first day of the pre-season," Irish head coach D~~bbie Brown said. "Winning the Big East is just another step to achieving our ultimate goal, the final four." 
No conference opponent has been much of an obstacle thus far. 
The 15-11, 15-3, 15-3 victory over Providence on Saturday was led by junior Kristina Ervin with 14 kills and sophomore Angie Harris with 12. Harris also lnd the Irish defensively with 13 digs and contributed one service ace. 
The Irish handed the Eagles a double-doughnut with a 15-0, 15-5. 15-0 victory. The victory presented only the second time in Irish volleyball history that the team has held its opponent scoreless in two games. The first time occurred in a match against LaSalle in 1992 in 
...... .........;.· 
~ 

The Observer/Brent Tadsen 
Jenny Birkner (far left) led Notre Dame to victory with seven digs. 
whieh the Irish won 15-0, 15-3, 15-0. 
Freshman middle blocker Lindsay Treadwell proved her­self as a force on both sides of the net as she lead the team with six kills and produced seven total blocks. She also posted two service aces. Junior co-captain Jenny Birkner had another stellar defensive per­formance with a team-high seven digs. 
Although no Big East oppo-
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Saint Mary's 
Accent Editor 
Please submit a one-page personal statement to Patti Carson by Nov. 13. Any questions call 1-4540 or 284-5022. Experience is preferred. 
nent has been able to win even one game against the Irish, as they have defeated each of the eleven opponents in three-game shutouts, the Irish must worry about the increased emotion of playing in the tournament. 
First-round tournament play begins Saturday morning at 10 
a.m. with the semi-final match­es played at 4:30 and 7 p.m. The tournament will then wrap up with the championship match at 12:30 p.m. on Sunday. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Basketball Officials Needed for Interhall and Grad!Fac/Staff Games. Pays $8.50 a game. ·If you are cur­rently a Co-Hee official and would like to do other Basket­ball league~. p!ease call 631­6100 and ask for Mark. 
Women's Lacrosse Practice will be in Loftus on Nov. 13 and 15 from 9-10 p.m. These will be our last prac­tices for the semester. Any questions? Call Allison at 239-7924. 
SMC Track and Field -The team will have a meeting Tuesday, November 14 at 6:30 in the Angela Athletic Facility. All interested should attend. 
Drop-in Volleyball-WiH take place on Tuesday. November 14, 21, 28 and December 5 at the Joyce Center form 8·11. No advance sign-ups or estab­lished teams are necessary. 
Late Night Olympics Steering Committee HecSports is looking for some enthusiastic students who would be interested in helping to plan this all-night extrava­ganza . As in the past, all funds raised from LNO will go to benefit Special Olympics. Any Notre ·Dame or Saint Mary's student who is interest· ed should calll-8237. 
Rockne Memorial Thanksgiving 1995 • Wed. Nov. 22 Building 7 
a.m. • 7 p.m.; Pool 7-9 a.m. noon -6 p.m.; wt. room 3 • 6 p.m. 
Thur. Nov. 23 Closed 
Fri. Nov. 24 Building 7 a.m. • 7 p.m.; pool 7 -9 a.m. noon • 2 p.m.; wt. room closed 
Sat. Nov. 25 Building 10 a.m. 
• 8:30 p.m.; pool 1-6 p.m.; wt. room closed 
Sun. Nov. 26 Building 10 a.m. • 11 p.m.; pool 7 -11 p.m.; wt. room noon • 6 p.m.: family hours 2 -5 
1 
-


Monday, November 13, 1995

The Observer • SPORTS 
Strong opener points toward success 
The Observer 
is looking for a dedicated individual for: 
News Copy Editor 
-
Please submit a one-page personal statement and resume to Dave Tyler by Nov. 13. Contact Dave at 1-5323 for more information. 

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 14 1:30 and 7:30 P.M. 
Irene Dunn, Allan Jones and Paul Robeson star in 
SHOWBOAT 
directed by James Whale
l 
,I $2 Adults, S1 Students 
I I 
l I 
By TODD FITZPATRICK margin to eleven points. They shots. Sports Writer failed to build a big lead pri­Center Katryna Gaither con­marily because they connected tributed to the Irish effort with 
Thanks to an impressive all­on only 38 percent of their 15 points, and sophomore around performance by the shots from the field. At half­guard Mollie Peirick added 14 women's basketball team, their time, Notre Dame led by six. points to-the Notre Dame victo­first game of the season was The Irish came out firing in ry. also their first win. the second half by raising their 
Notre Dame defeated Sopron field goal percentage to nearly "We were really happy with (Hungary) 93-85 this weekend 58 percent. Notre Dame our offense today. We played at the JACC in a game that will extended their lead to 21 points well, and shot well. On the hopefully be a model for future with only 6:01 remaining. whole, our shot selection was 
success. Much of the Irish offensive suc­good," commented Coach 
The Irish began their march cess could be attributed to the McGraw. to the NCAA tournament by shooting performance by Junior With all of the positives that outplaying Sopron from the Co-Captain Beth Morgan. came from Notre Dame's open­opening tip-off to the last Morgan finished the day with ing game, one negative existed buzzer. Notre Dame never 33 points, including 13 of 20 that could hurt the Irish in the trailed in the contest thanks to from the field and four free future against more talented a consistent team effort that throws. teams-rebounding. rarely faltered. Despite Notre Dame's 
After the game, Irish head commanding lead, Sopron "Rebounding is going to be a coach Muffet McGraw was clawed its way back into the problem for us all year long," understandably pleased with game to give the Irish a scare admitted McGraw. her team's first performance of late in the second half. With The Irish were out-rebounded the 1995-96 season. 1:24 remaining, Sopron scored 41 to 3 5, and they allowed 
"For the first game, I was on a fast break to pull within 3 Sopron center Sue Wicks to pretty pleased. Our attitude points of the Irish. But Morgan grab 13 rebounds of her own. this year is great." retaliated by burying a three­Next up for the Irish: the 
In the first half, the Irish lead pointer to put the Irish ahead Hoosier All-Stars on Friday. remained in single digits for the by six. After another Sopron More importantly, Notre Dame entire half. The only exception basket, Morgan put the game plays their first Big East was a short stint late in the half away with :39 seconds left · Conference game against when the Irish increased the when she hit two clutch foul Rutgers on Novermber 28. 
COURSES CANCELLED 
ARCH 699 05 #4264 ARHI 252T 02 #1196 ARHI 252T 06 #0275 BA 392 02 #2692 BIOS 580 03 #2597 MI 342 01 #3164 
DART
MI 555 01 #3165 
ROFR 236 01 #2388 
CQ:U:RSES ADDED 
AERO 350 01 #4452 -Aerodynamics I; 3 cr. hrs.; MWF 09:05-09:55; Aero 240 prerequisite 
AME 598E 01 #4453 -Fund. of Combustion; 3 cr. hrs.; MWF 10:10-11:000; cross-listed with ME 456-01 
CSE 700 01 #4450 -Non-resident Thesis; 1.0 cr. hr. 
ME 498B 01 #4451 -Directed Studies; var. cr. hrs. 
MI 561 01 #4454 -Dante's Intellectual History; 1 cr. hr.; T 03:00-5:00; Class meets 3/19/96-4/16/96; cross-listed with ROIT 423-01 and LLRO 424-01 
MUS 540 01 #4449 -Bibliography of Music; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 09:30-10:45 
CHANGES 
ACCT 372 01 #0354 -Add restriction: "Seniors only" ACCT 383 04 #4272-Change days/time to: MW 12:50-02:05 ACCT 383 05 #4273-Change days/time to: MW 02:20-03:35 AERO 360 01 #1225 -Change prerequisite to: "(Aero 350 or ME 334) and ME 327)" AMST 491 01 #3096 -Add restriction: "Majors only through 3rd period; then open to all" AMST 493 01 #3149 -Add restriction: "Majors only through 3rd period; then open to all" AMST 591 01 #3097 -Add restriction: "Graduate majors only" ARHI 488 01 #3675 -Add "Permission Required" ARST 243S 01 #3124 -Add restriction: "MaJors only through 3rd period; then open to all" ARST 289S 01 #1508 -Add restriction: "ARST or DESN majors only thru 3rd period; then open to all" ARCH 546 01 #2353 -Change days/time to: M 06:30-08:30; PM Class ARCH 699 01 #0094 -Change title to: "Thesis Preparation" ARCH 699 02 #4261 -Change title to: "Thesis Preparation" ARHC 699 03 #4262 -Change title to: "Thesis Preparation" ARCH 699 04 #4263 -Change title to: "Thesis Preparation" ARCH 699 06 #4442 -Change title to: "Thesis Preparation" BIOS 101 01 #1035 -Add restriction: "Freshmen and Sophomores only" BIOS 107 01 #3556 -Add restriction: "Freshmen and Sophomores only" BIOS 109 01 #3557 -Add restriction: "Freshmen and Sophomores only" BIOS 156 01 #3094 ~ Add restriction: "Freshmen only" BIOS 196 01 #3095 -Add corequisite: "BIOS 156L" BIOS 532 01 #3065 -Add prerequisite: "Bios 531 or Chern 531" BIOS 539 01 #0518-Remove meeting days/time CHEM 102 01 #0147-Add restriction: "Not eligible to students who have taken CHEM 116 or 118" CHEM 104 01 #3561 -Add restriction: "Not eligible to College of Science or College of Eng. students" CHEM 224 01 #2942 -Add restriction: "Non-CHEG majors only" and add coreqmsite: "CHEM 224L" CHEM 224A 01 #2941 -Add restriction: "CHEG majors only" CAPP 303 01 #3043 -Add restriction: "College of Arts & Letters students only" CSE 443 01 #2915 -Change time to: MWF 01:15-02:05 CHEG 698B 01 #3520-Change time to: TH 01:15-02:30 DESN 217S 01 #2310-Add: "ARHI, ARST or DESN majors only thru 3rd period; then open to all" ENGL 240H 01 #3730-Change time to: TH 09:30-10:45 GOVT 344 01 #4372 -Change course number to: (Govt) 341 and add :Juniors and Sophomores only GOVT 492B 01 #3824 -Change to "Permission Required" HIST 342 01 #2973 -Add restriction: "Majors only through 3rd period; then open to all" HIST 415 01 #3334 -Add restriction: "Majors only through 3rd period; then open to all" HIST 422 01 #3461 -Add restriction: "Majors only through 3rd period; then open to all" HIST 454 01 #3025 -Add restriction: "Majors only through 3rd period; then open to all" LLRO 511 01 #4146 -Change day to: F 01:15-04:00 MI 502 01 #2526 -Change time to: M 12:45-01:30 MI 621 01 #4088 -Change time to: M 09:30-12:00 MI 634 01 #4089 -Change day I time to: H 01:15-03:45 MUS 223 01 #4309 -Change credit hours to: 3.0 MUS 224 01 #4310-Change credit hours to: 3.0 MSA 611 01 #4308 -Change title to: "Communicating for Managerial Effectiveness" PHIL 538 01 #4119-Change time to: TH 04:15-05:30 PHYS 309 01 #3595 -Add prerequisite: "Phys 116, 128, 142 or 222" PSY 353 01 #4132-Remove "Permission Required" PSY 480A 01 #4447-Change time to: MWF 02:20-03:10 ROIT 106 02 #0442 -Change time to: MWF 09:05-09:55 ROSP 570 01 #4165-Change day /time to: TH 04:15-05:30 THEO 283 01 #4206-Add restriction: "THEO 100,200 or 201" THEO 400 01 #1457-Change to "Permission Required" THEO 423 01 #3449 -Change tiqle to: MW 08:40-09:55 THEO 523 01 #4420 -Change time to: MW 08:40-09:55 THEO 622 01 #3122-Change time to: M 09:30-12:00 THEO 634 01 #4227 -Change day I time to: H 01:15-03:45 

....-----------------­
~----------------------­
Monday, November 13, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
ODE.I.010U GAZING IN A FOREST GREEN PAST TOPMOST TOW' RING TREES, BENDING HENCE MY HEART MOST KEEN I SPOl YOU IN THE BREEZE. 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
BRRR, \IS FRt.EZ\t-IG 00\ mERE! 1 [):)t\1\ W"-NT TC> 
U:~l/t. ~'( 1'\\CE W~RI'<\ BED 
T ----­
L _ _:~=:::::,.____......J L-----~--"'--~~ '-----------L----'1-~~-~• 
DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
,. 
..,0 ..u 
OUP.. GOAL I~ TO WRITE'. ~ 
_, ,; 11-\0PE I't'\ GONNA BUG-FREE SOFTWI>.R.E.. 0.. .!: THIS WRITE. ME A 
41> 
II) .. ~
I'll PA'Y A TEN-DOLLAR ,. ~~~ DRIVES NEW MINIVAI\\ 
Q
OONU.S fOR. E.VER.'Y BUG ,_c ! THE RlGI-\T 11-115 t>..FTER­
YOU FIND AND FI~. .., ,_ 0 \1/~t~'-II) BEHAVIOR. NOON\
~..:\C~ 

CROSSWORD 
LONELY STANDING 'PON A FIELD OF WHISP'RING WINDSWEPT GRASS, A MIRROR. BEST OF NATURE'S YIELD, YOUR G£/INCfTO ME DOES PASS. 
01\1 Ot-.~'3 l\Kf. TI-llS, I ~ISH n\E.St. t<\ORI--I\t--165 N<E t-110!-A. ~WLD COt-\E It{, \.A'{ G0\1'-\G 1\) KILL 1>\€ . M E'!CtRt>. BLAt-IKE\ 01/t.R 1'<\t. 
\

Pt-.1 M~ \\HO, f..~l) f..'S l S\1'-\\:: \1\1\\l 1\-\E 1'\LLOW \!\'\OCR 
.. 
n.\E WE\G\\T Or 1\-\E CCl'IERS, 
i 
51-\E'D 'Sf>l'i ... 

I 
_"I*
),~~

!i ~ ( 
I

[ • . 
l -' 
'" 
DAVE KELLETT 

COOL DEEP DROUGHT OF LOVING BLISS, YOUR EYES THE DARKEST POOL. MY HEART CAN SAY NO MORE THAN THIS. "I THINK YOU'RE PRETTY DARN COOL." 
YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1995 (For your personalized daily Jeane Dixon horoscope, based on your own date of birth, call 1-900-988-7788. Your phone company will bill you 99 
cenls a minute.) HAPPY HIRTHDAY! IN THE  helps you beat out the competition.  
NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LJI<'E:  Pay overdue bills to preserve your  
Promising business opportunities  credit rating. You do well when left  
arise thanks to your well-known  to your own devices. Assist a friend  
diplomacy. In December, new rela­ in need.  
tionships help you climb the profes­sional or social ladder. Your cash  LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ci. 22): Brooding over problems wi II only  
tlow improves early in 19%, allow­tng you to pay off old bills. Work  make them worse. Heed your intu­ition. The loose ends of your private  
hard. A new sense of purpose will  life begin to come together. Partners  
revitalize your career. Travel sets the  and friends deserve special consid­ 
stage for happy romance. A wedding  eration. Beware of romance on the  
could take place by this time next fall.  rebound.  
CELEBRITIES HORN ON  SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): A  
THIS DAY: actress Whoopi Gold­ move to a different location works  
herg, actress Madeline Sherwood, aulhor Robert Louis Stevenson,  to your advantage. Welcome a change of environmenl and new  
baseball player Mel Stottlemyre. ARIES (March 21-April 19):  friends. Showing family members extra consideration will reduce any  
Annoyance could overtake you if  tension due to the transfer. Romance  
others, including your loved ones,  again flourishes.  
impose on your good nature.  SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec .  
Strengthen an alliance wilh an important business contact; new  21 ): An excellent work perfor­mance cannot he ignored. Showcase  
contracts could result.  your talents to best advantage. Gen­ 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Back up your intentions with an edu­ erous words and deeds help heal old wounds. Defer to your mate or part­ 
cational program. Cultivating power­ ncr's wishes where your finances  
ful acquainlances will help you  are concerned. Curb spending.  
obtain new financial backing. Banish  CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan.  
limidity and become more assertive.  19): Focus on personal interests and  
GEMINI (May 21-June 20):  priorities. A project in the planning  
You cannot afford to be emotional now. Let your shrewd instincts help  stage could become a reality. A neighbor wants to involve you in a  
you separate money-making ven­ new venture; say "no" if money  
tures from losing propositions.  would be involved.  
Nothing escapes your notice.  AQUARilJS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):  
CANCER (June 21-July 22):  Resist an urge to splurge on some­thing you cannot afford. A homeless  
Although a delay may concern you, loyal supporters see hopeful signs.  animal could become a new member  
Make a special effort to mend some  of the family. A spontaneous invita­ 
emotional fences. Prominent friends  tion transforms an otherwise hum­ 
offer valuable advice .  drum evening. A local event  
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): An aura of good luck surrounds your real estate dealings. Keep abreast of new  requires reservations. PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Former classmates share interesting  
!rends in your field. Be sure to con­sult a personnel expert if job-hunt­ing. Carefully weigh the decision to  news. A child needs special help with a school project. Give guide­lines instead of taking over! A  
change careers.  romantic partner wants to surprise  
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): The  you with a wonderful evening.  
ahilily to speak a foreign language  A void asking questions.  
•MENU  


ACROSS 30 Annual golf 58 Bulgaria's tournament, capital
1 Actor Guinness 
with "the" eo "The Magic 11 Philatelist's 35 Parisian Flute" role, with book summer "the" 311lterate ee Stalin's land 
10 Cure 38lnter--87 "What--!"
14lmpetuous 
40 1975 Pacino ("That's 111Monte--film funny!") 43 Needle case 88 Zhivago's love 
111 "Rule, Britannia" 44 Spy magazine 88 J.D. holder composer feature 70Cafe cup 45 Suffix with 71 Gush
17 Old-fashioned 
Brooklyn or

greeting 
Manhattan 20 Brings up, as DOWN
48 Dreamer: Fr. young 
48 Equilibriums 

1 Mr. Linkletter 21 Dancer De Mille 50 Cathedral parts 
2 Vientiane native 53 Manage to 
22 Located 
3 Telepathy 
avoid 

25 Item in 5-Across 4 Dance: Prefix 
54 "Damn 28 Release. as the Yankees" 11"-­end of a chain composer Sanctorum" 11 Actor Bert et al. 7 French seaport 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
a Einstein's birthplace 8 Bossy's call 28 Fine violin 47 Make money 59 Entertain
10Suspend 

48 --oneself of grandly
27 British moms
11 Ireland 

(uses) 61 Dobbin's tidbit 
28 Becomes tense 
12 Green Gables 111 These. in Lima 
62Agcy. for
31 Sunlamp

girl 52 New York and 
homeowners
product 

London areas
13 Gangster 63 Hiatus
32 Plaza brat, In 

14 Water, for Cato 
Diamond 

children's lit 64 Charlemagne's
11 Maid's target 
18 Felt topper domain: Abbr. 
33 Hooligan 118 "--we forget" 1990's songs 34 Most logical 117 Weird: Var. 61 Playing marble 22 Shoe leathers 37 TV host Jack for Elvis and others 
Get answers to any three clues 
23As a whole 38 Salamander 

by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
41 Make a hole 
24 What early 

5656 (75¢ each minute).
starters jump 42 Keep 


Notre Dame 

North South Grilled Pork Chops Cheese llavloli Irish Brown Potatoes Parslied Potatoes 
Brocolli Quesadllla Cut Green Beans 
Saint Mary's Salmon Steaks Buttered Noodles 
Green Beans 

Celebrate a friend's 
-

birthday with a special Observer ad. 
Do J'OU have a disciplinary headng with Residence Ufe1 
Student Government is available to assist students with their disciplinary hearings with Residence life. We are available to advise you before~ during and after your hearing. 
IF YOU NEED ASSISTANCE· CAU 631·4556 ASAP TOM M.4TZZIE MARYBE711MICAlE 
Director ofAdvocacy

judicial Council President & ChiefCounsel 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
All information is held as strictly confidential 


, 
-

SPORTS 
page 20 Monday, November 13, 1995 
• 
.. 
-
-
I 
i I 
I
•i 
~ 

Green Wave tops 'Cocks 
ByTIM McCONN championship. The Fisher Sports Writer Green Wave, on the other hand, capped off a memorable run 
The 1995 Men's Interhall that will be talked about for Championship game was what quite a long time, as they de­everyone expected in one feated the Flanner Cocks 14-6, respect: a low-scoring, defen­in overtime, Sunday afternoon sive struggle. It completed a at Loftus Center to win the cov­true Cinderella story. This may eted title. not have been the After starting off the season Northwestern Wildcats; indeed, 0-2 and being ranked 12th, the those guys have yet to win a Green Wave went on to win lar seasop games and their three playoff matches. Their nickname seemed to define the streak: j\ist as a wave gains momentum and strength as it proceeds toward its destination, this Fisher squad got better each weekend leading up to this ultimate goal. 

"We never really doubted ourselves," said quarterback Alfredo Rodriguez. "The first 2 games of the season hurt us, The Observer/Michael Hungeling 
but as time went on we gained Flanner quarterback Scott Lupo threw a touchdown pass during more and more confidence in 
regulation and two interceptions during the overtime period. 
ourselves. Going into the play­was apparent that they simply been spectacular and excitingoffs and then the champi­would not allow their champi-to watch, but it did the job. onship, we had no doubts we onship hopes to die. "Defense was definitely the could win it all." Offensively, Fisher estab-key to the game," said defen­
The victory epitomized lished their running game sive lineman Chris Ebey, who Fisher's run to the title. Th!! early, and never let up. played with an injured ankle defense repeatedly stuffed the Running back Dayne Nelson for a large part of the game.Flanner rushing attack, and and his offensive lineman Rodriguez concurred. saying,created turnovers when it had countinuously pounded away at "the key to the game was deli­to. They forced two fumbles the Flanner defense, which nitely our defense. No doubt during regulation, and picked proved to be the deciding factor about it." off two Scott Lupo passes in the in the end. Although they The first score of the gameovertime period. The heart and never broke any long runs, came early in the second quar­soul of this championship team, Fisher's short-yardage. smash-ter. Following a fumble by the defense kept this team in mouth brand of football wore Flanner tailback J.P. 
Dayne Nelson (making the tackle) scored the winning touchdown in the game, never allowing the down the Flanner defense, who Fenningham. the Fisher offense 
the third overtime period. Cocks to mount a serious drive. seemed to be on the field the Despite one serious mistake, it entire game. It may not have see INTERHALL I page 16 
• HocKEY 
leers snap losing streak with impressive shutout 
By MIKE DAY body turned out to be the class Sports Writer of 1996. 
All good things to those who "There is no question that wait. this is a senior based team," 
It may have been a long time said Poulin. "They gave a coming, but Notre Dame hockey tremendous effort tonight. It's coach Dave Poulin finally like a snowball effect. The recorded his first home victory work of the senior line is start­on Saturday night. And for the ing to take people with it." Irish, it could not have come at Senior Jeremy Coe got the a better time. Irish into the scoring column 
After falling to Illinois­with 13:23 remaining in the Chicago 3-2 on Friday, Notre opening period. Right wing Dame, eager to snap a seven Tim Harberts spotted Coe wide game losing streak and four open in front of the net for the game skid at home, took out easy score and a 1-0 lead. their frustration on Ohio State The Irish extended their lead with an impressive 4-0 victory. to 2-0 when senior captain 
"It was important for me and Brett Bruininks slapped the for the team that we get this puck past Buckeye goaltender first win at home," said Poulin. Adam Lord after receiving a "We've been putting a lot of pass from senior defenseman work in but have not seen the Garry Gruber. results. This win reinforces Later in the period, Gruber that we're getting better at made his presence known once some things." again. After receiving what 
In dire need of a victory some would call a cheap shot at heading into the tough part of the defensive end, Gruber "It was pretty clear that he tually the same thing." right wing Jamie Moreshead their schedule, Notre Dame dashed accross the ice with started it at the other end of the With just 21 seconds left in and slid the puck past Lord for needed somebody to step up hopes of retaliation. A bench ice, and it sort of went unno­the second period, the Irish his third goal of the season. against a Ohio State team that clearing brawl followed, and ticed," said Gruber. "It didn't turned out the lights on the Fot good measure, Moreshead had shown significant improve­the senior defenseman received seem to be too fair that he got a overmatched Buckeyes. added a score with 5:37 ment since the end of last sea­a game disqualification for his two minute penalty, and I got Freshman Benoit Cotnoir remaining in the contest to seal son. On Saturday, that some-role in the melee. kicked out of the game for vir-received a pass from senior 
see HOCKEY I page 16 


Football • Volleyball ends season with victory SMC Sports 

at Air Force November 18 
Basketball at Kalamazoo College 
see page 17 November 17
Volleyball 
Swimming at Wabash College 

Big Easr Championships 
Invitational, November 18, 10:30 • Swimming loses to Western Kentucky 
November 18 & 19 JACC 
see page 18
Hockey 
vs. Lake Superior November 24-25. 

• Worn~ Basketball wins season opener Women'sBasketball 
7:00 EST 

vs. Akron November 25, 2:00pm 
see page 18 






