
Friday, October 27, 1995 • Vol. XXVII No. 44 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
University focus expands abroad 
By DEBORAH SCHULTZ 
News Wrircr 
In an attempt to internationalize the Notre Dame community and assist in the further devel­opment of International Studies, a committee on the subject has been organized by Father Timothy Scully, vice president and associate provost of the University. 
The ad hoc committee on International Studies was approved by the University's Academic Council last May and will work to advise the University on international matters. It will also aid in the bringing about of improvements in the armt, according to Ivan Jaksic, assistant provost for International Studies. 
"We want to improve on everything, not just the study abroad programs, because we would like to internationalize the whole university to expand students' horizons and create a wider span of knowledge and experiences," said Jaksic. 
The eommittee has high goals of what it would like to accomplish, but actually attaining these goals is a slow moving process. 
"Something that is very important right now is focus. We are moving with deliberate speed beeause we are in the process of gathering information and this takes a great amount of time. We are going through a consultation prneHss on how to provide a truly international campus," said Jaksic. 
PresHntly th11 committee is examining student wants and demands, evaluating both domestic and international programs, and speaking with faculty members who have an international background. For the 1994-95 school year. only 478 students. 6.3 percent of the student body, studi11d abroad. The committee would like to el­evate these numbers significantly, but the more important goal is improving the overall strength of the International Studies program. 
"What is important is that students have the appropriatll background here so that they can handle a strong, academically challenging pro­gram abroad. The question is how to improve the quality of language instruction and offerings at Notm Dame so that when students go abroad, they can immerse themselves in the culture in order to get as much out of the experience as possible," statml .laksic. 
Another aspect of the abroad programs the cornrniltBe would like to examine is facilitating studnnts in going abroad through other universi­tins' programs. 
"Tiwn1 are so many other dimensions of the 
see ABROAD I page 8 

The making of a 'friendly' rivalry 

Student Body President Jonathan Patrick, Vice President Dennis McCarthy, and Chief of Staff Mark Mitchell hold the tro­phy which will travel between the victors of the Notre Dame/ Boston College foot­ball games for at least the next ten years. The traveling trophy, which will be present­ed to Boston College at halftime of the foot­ball game this week­end, is an attempt on the part of both stu­dent governments to keep the competition "friendly" between the schools. 

Notre Dame and Boston College's shared trophy serves as symbol of unity 
By MARY KATE MORTON 
Associarc News Ediror 
Boston College. Screaming Eagles. These four words have the ability to rile up the Fighting Irish more than most others, and that includes Florida State. They invoke images of a lost national championship and of a year of redemption spoiled. When the Irish student body thinks about this BC game on Saturday, there is only one acceptable outcome, a Notre Dame win. 
In just six short years, the Notre Dame­Boston College series has gained the charac­teristics of a classic American College Football rivalry-a blow-out and a heart­breaker and two student bodies that look forward to the match-up long before the leaves change color. 
But lately, the young rivalry has taken a turn for the ugly and the Notre Dame stu­dent body made the decision to rectify this over the summer. 
Mark Mitchell, the Student Government chief of staff, developed the idea to create a traveling trophy between the two schools that would belong solely to their student bodies. In an effort to unite the students of two schools with similar traditions and her­itages, Mitchell and Boston College junior John Kleiderer embarked on a project to bring together the BC and ND communities to celebrate their ties and keep the rivalry "friendly." 
"We all know that the students have tend­ed to regard this competition as a 'Holy War" and from what I've heard from people who traveled to BC last year for the game, they had a very unpleasant experience. It sound­ed like it was turning into a Miami caliber rivalry which is just nasty, " said Mitchell. "And while it's very easy to discontinue con­tractual obligations to play Miami because we really don't have any connection to them, Boston College is, next to Notre Dame, the only Catholic school with a division I-A football team. 
When Kleiderer and Mitchell reflected on the link between BC and Notre Dame, the two recognized that the history and heritage 
see TROPHY I page 6 


SCHEDULE OF EVENTS 
I  Friday, October 27  
12-2 p.m. 3:30-5:30 p.m. 4:30p.m.4:45-6:00 p.m.6:45p.m.7:00p.m.  Alumni -Senior Club for lunch Center for the Homeless Alumni Tours Marching Band Rehearsal Glee Club Rehearsal Band steps off for RallyPep Rally  South of Stadium Main Circle Main Building Washington Hall Band Building JACC (Gate 10)  

Saturday, October 28 
9:30a.m.  Marching Band Rehearsal  
11:00-11:30 a.m.  Cheerleader Performances  
11:40-12:00 p.m.  Cheerleader Performances  
12:00 p.m.  AA Meeting 
12:30-1:00 p.m.  Glee Club-ND in Review  
1:00-1:30 p.m.  Shenanigans Performance  
1:00-1:45 p.m.  Marching Band Concert  
2:10p.m.  Marchin8 Band Pre-~ame Show  
2:30 ~.m.  NOTRE  AME VS. B  

30 mn. post-game Vigil Mass 4:30-7:00 p.m. Candlelight Dinner Buffet Loftus Center ND Bookstore 
esc 
JACC, North Dome JACC, North Dome Main Buildi~ Notre Dame tadium Notre Dame Stadium Stepan Center Dining Halls 
I  Sunday, October 29  
8,9:30, 11 a.m.  Mass  Basilica  
1,2:00 g.m.  Men's lnterhall Football Playoffs Stepan Fields  
1,2,3,  4 p.m.  Women's lnterhall Football  Cartier Fields  

Bordt advocates social justice 
By KAREN BELL 
News Writer 
While most professors enter academia through masters' de­
grees and Ph.D. pro­grams, Re­becca Bordt c a m e through the Iowa prisons­not that she was ever 

convicted of Bordt anything. 
Bordt, an assistant professor of sociology at Notre Dame, worked as a prison guard ten years ago and has campaigned alongside criminal offenders for social justice and women's rights. Currently she serves on the board of Dismas House and teaches undergraduate crimi­nology. 
Bordt, a graduate of Buena Vista University with a degree in psychology, used to be em­ployed as a "corrections offi­cer" at a women's prison in Iowa. Working eight hour shifts, the mostly female prison guards were each responsible for a unit of prisoners contain­ing a mix of both serious and minor offenders. 

It was not the sort of job where one feared for her life every day, Bordt said, unlike in the men's prisons which tend to possess heightened gang and racial tensions. In fact, she stated that the prisoners were mostly apolitical and more or less resolved to the fact that they were powerless to change their conditions. The prison administration's policies were very conservative in regards to security and the main priority was simply the so-called "ware­housing of these people." 
Bordt likened the interior of the prison to a college campus: there were no bars or guards with uniforms or guns, al­though the dormitories were locked up at night. The prison­ers were free to work in the li­brary or the kitchen, to study towards their G.E.D.'s. or to work in the factory in which shirts were made for the men's prison. Despite all this, Bordt noted, there was very little in the way of rehabilitation. 
Bordt feels that when she first got the job, she was "ideal­istic and wanted to make some sort of change," but soon she discovered the frustrations of being a guard and the stress in­trinsic in being in control of other people. Still dedicated to making a change, she decided to work toward her master's degree in Justice Studies, as she felt she could more effec­tively change things through writing and teaching. 
Going on to earn her doctor­ate at Yale, Bordt worked on researching women's non-prof­it organizations. including health, education and rape cri­sis services. She was over­whelmed, she said, by how much was actually being done by women for women, as she feels the media tends to portray 
see BORDT I page 6 


page2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, October 27, 1995 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

A different kind of ce01etery 
Those of you who have been by the library today probably noticed that the quad looks a little differ­ent. Four thousand little white crosses cover the ground. making the quad look like a cemetery. 

The crosses are there to ·represent four thou-Andy Cabiness sand people who were Sports Copy Editor killed in the last twenty-four hours. Their deaths were not reported in any newspapers. They weren't buried in cemeteries, nor did they have funerals. They are the victims of abortion. Over four thou­sand unborn babies are aborted every day in America. That is more than half the size of the student body of Notre Dame being wiped out each and every day. Abortion has been a national issue for years, but until it is outlawed by the Supreme Court or a constitutional amendment, life or death decisions are going to rest in the hands of pregnant women. Even so, abortion still may not seem like an issue of importance on campus. However, not even the most naive among the Notre Dame community would believe that there aren't a fair number of sexually active students. As a result, there are going to be some unplanned pregnancies. My hope is that those women who become pregnant will make the difficult choice: to allow their children to live. Everybody can help to make the choice eas­ier for those women. Even in today's society, there is still a stigma attached to being unmarried and pregnant. Many women can­not bear the embarrassment and the nega­tive stigma that comes with an unplanned pregnancy. If we, as a community, are will­ing to be more understanding and support­ive, and less judgmental, then these women might fmd it easier to keep their babies. Unfortunately, much of the pressure to get abortions comes from boyfriends of the preg­nant women. Often these men are looking out only for their best interests and care little about the physical and emotional suffering that abortions might cause the women. They just see abortion as a quick way out of their responsibilities. Some will apply so much psychological and emotional pressure on their girlfriends that the women will get the abortions, even if they believe it is wrong. Guys who are going to take the risks need to be willing to accept the consequences of their actions. Ultimately, though, the final decision is made by the women themselves. Please don't punish the children. They've done nothing to deserve to be killed. Give them their fair chance at life, and possibly a chance at being Domers themselves. There are many people and organizations who will support you if you decide to choose life. Women's Care Centers are staffed with people who will help you emotionally, physi­cally and financially if you're not sure where to find help. If you don't think you can handle being a parent, then there are plenty of cou­ples just waiting to be given the opportunities to become families. Don't add another cross to the cemetery. Above all else, remember this: Abortion doesn't make you un-preg­nant. It just makes you the mother of a dead baby. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TonAY's STAFF  
News  Graphics  
Jaimie Heisler  Chris Mullins  
Tom Moran  
Sports  Viewpoint  
Andy Cabiness  Michael O'Hara  

Lab Tech 

Production 
Mike Ruma Belle Bautista 

Dave Murphy David Diaz 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. AJI reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WORlD AT A GLANCE 

House passes sweeping balanced budget bill 
WASHINGTON 
In a momentous break with the past, the House passed a Republican balanced-budget bill Thursday that would shrink the federal government, cut taxes and return power to the states. Democrats battled to the end against the measure. 
The vote was 227-203, with 223 Republicans and four Democrats approving the bill. Opposed were 192 Democrats, 10 Republicans and one independent. 
"The people should understand that in seven years, we will in fact balance the federal bud­get and save this country and save the next generation," said House Budget Committee Chairman John Kasich of Ohio. "We've done our job." 
A cheer went up from the Republican side of the chamber as the vote count climbed past 217, the number needed to assure passage in the 433-member House. GOP lawmakers pumped their arms in the air in triumph. 
Across the Capitol, the GOP-controlled Senate was expected to approve a similar bill Friday, a major milestone in the Republican revolution launched last winter. "We'll be all right," predicted Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole, R-Kan. 
As the day gave way to evening, Senate Republicans systematically turned aside Democratic efforts to restore two-thirds of $270 billion in savings proposed from Medi­care, as well as additional funds for Medicaid and a program of tax breaks for the working poor. 
"Their agenda is to get rid of Medicare," House Minority Leader Dick Gephardt, D-Mo., said of the Republicans. "Their agenda is to give huge tax breaks to the wealthiest Americans." 
Muppets back on television 
NEW YORK 
Kermit the Frog, Miss Piggy and the rest of the Muppets are headed back to prime time on ABC. "Muppets Live!" a comedy-variety half-hour, will be a mid­season replacement under a five-year production deal announced Thursday. Unlike the original Muppets show, which was set in a music-hall theater, 

"Muppets Live!" will originate from the chaotic studios of KMUP-TV, with weekly guest stars and a menagerie of Muppet characters new and old."Of course, if this doesn't work out, we'll start visiting people," Kermit, flanked by his sidekick Gonzo, told reporters at ABC stu­dios."Going door to door!" Gonzo amended. 
Jaycees scrap O.J.'s haunted house 
PASCO, Wash. 
The Jaycees scrapped plans for an "O.J. Simpson crime scene" at their annual haunted house after a flood of angry calls. But the Jeffrey Dahmer skit will remain. An actor dressed like Simpson was to jump out of the bushes during the Halloween fund-raiser and stab dum­mies of Nicole Brown Simpson and Ronald Goldman. before giving a fan an autograph and dropping a glove. After local television reported the skit Monday, the irate calls lasted until 3 a.m. "The minute we got the first call, we decided to drop the scene," Jaycee Dan Stone said. But the fuss won't stop the Dahmer exhibit, in which an actor depicts the serial killer slicing and dicing a human forearm and foot, burning a human head on a stove and sticking it into a microwave. 


• NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather<~~>torecast for noon, Friday, Oct. 27. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
OHIO 

FRONTS: 
~ .............. ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1995 AccuWeather, Inc. 
PtBSSurs 
H L 
~u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOLJDY CLOUDY VIa Anodaf«< p,... 
AUanta  63  43  Columbus  48  40  Miami  86  75  
BaHimore  61  60  Dallas  75  44  Minneapolis 47  33  
Boston  65  54  Denver  67  28  New Orleans 72  58  
Charlotte  67  56  Jacksonville 78  68  NewYor1<  64  60  
Chicago  44  39  Los Angeles B4  58  Philadelphia 66  62  

Budget bill on both floors 
T H E T H E 

SENATE HOUSE
MEDICARE 
• Raise annual deductible to $150 in • Keep deductible at $100. Hospital 1996 and add $10 each year. Shave increases reduced by $76 billion. $86 billion from hospital fee increases. 
Eft~: Increase costs to beneficiaries; trim payments to providers; pay for more benefits; encourage elderly to switch to private managed care units. Allow seniors to choose catastrophic-only health coverage coupled with a medical savings account. . 
MEDICAID 
• Save $187 billion over seven years. • Save $182 billion over seven Provide Medicaid for children under 13 years. and pregnant women in poor families. 
EiH: Convert Medicaid into block grants to the states. Cut spending growth from 10 percent annually to less than 5 percent. 
AGRICULTURE 
• Keeps traditional price subsidies, but • Traditional subsidy programs end. makes less cropland eligible. Dairy Dairy price regulation ends. pricing regulated; price supports end. 
&A; Save $13.4 billion. 
WELFARE 
• Maintains foster care, school • Sends foster care, school lunches lunches and nutrition assistance for and nutrition assistance for pregnant women and infants as federal pregnant women and infants to the programs. Claims $66 billion savings. states as block grants. Claims $90 
billion savings. 

.,H: Impose five-year limits on cash benefits. 
EDUCATION 
•saves $10.9 billion. Colleges pay a • Saves $10.2 billion. 
0.85 percent fee on student loans. Lenders would receive less in federal subsidies for defaulted loans. 
Dl1: Students pay the interest costs during the six-month period alter graduation. 
Garbageman strikes it lucky 

PEABODY, Mass. 
Garbage truck driver Craig Randall sometimes brings his work home with him. There was that old-fashioned sewing machine he salvaged. There were some books he lifted from the trash. And then there was that Wendy's soft-drink cup good for a $200,000 grand prize. Neither Randall nor his fiancee believed it until Thursday, when Randall drove his garbage truck to a Wendy's restaurant and picked up his check. Randall, 23. said he lifted the cup off a pile of trash -he can't remember what day, exactly -while on his route in the Boston suburb of Dedham. ''I'd won a chicken sandwich the week before, and I figured, hey, I'd get some fries to go with it," he said. This time the ticket said: "Congratulations. You have won $200,000 toward a new home." 
Armadillos moving up to Missouri 
SPRINGFIELD, Mo. 
Motorists cruising the highways and byways of south­ern Missouri are doing a double-take these days. Joining the assorted cast of road-killed rabbits, raccoons, skunks and the occasional unlucky farm dog is a bony-shelled critter seldom before seen in these parts. The armadillo invasion has begun. Wildlife experts say armadillos are scurrying away on stubby legs from their homes in the Ozarks of Arkansas. Destination: Missouri. where indica­tions are they're finding the Show-Me State's environs to their liking. On a recent drive from Springfield to Bran­son, a distance of about 40 miles, one motorist counted no fewer than half a dozen armadillos sleeping eternally along the side of the road. The armadillos are proceed­ing farther and farther north each year. 
Folk choir to present public benefit concert 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame Polk Choir will present a con­eert of sacred music on 7:30 
p.m. on Saturday, Nov. 4. The concert. which will take place in Washington Hall. will benefit a Holy Cross mission in Jinja. Uganda, West Africa. 
There will be no fixed charge for this public concert. but an offering will be taken up for the support of the .Jinja mission. The mission's pastor is father Torn McDermott. a former member of Notre Dame's Cam­pus Ministry staff. 
Under th11 direction of Steven Warner, the 55-member Folk Choir is one of Notre Dame's principal liturgical choirs. 
Especially known for its singing at the 11:45 a.m. Sunday Mass in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart on campus, the choir has issued five recordings of sacred music and has toured widely in the U.S. and abroad. 
The concert will offer high­lights of the Folk Choir's reper­toire, including selections now attracting national attention with their distribution by World Library Publications of Chicago. Sacred song from Africa will also be featured. 
Seating for the performance will be first-come, first-served, and concertgoers are encour­aged to arrive early. 






Hey Seniors! 
Senior Dog book orders are due THIS FRIDAY, Oct. 27. Bring your photo, poll, and order form to the class office (2nd floor LaFortune) or send it campus mail. 

Smoke-eaters • Improved heating & air con­ditioning • Brand-spankin' new pool table • Darts • Killer jukebox selection • Spacious new layout • Even more variety than before! 
As always, bringing you the best Campus Bands! 
...But still the same old Club! 
LOCATED JUST OFF CAMPUS ON THE CORNER OF 
SOllrH BENDAVE. & NO litE DAME AVE. 


1)4-4015 
Please Recycle The Observer 
Under African Skies 
Foday Musa Suso and the Mandingo Griot Society keep the crowd dancing at last night's Giant African Modern Music Concert, held in Stepan Center. 

Malloy to bless new Habitat home 
Special to The Observer St. Joseph County chapter of dated housing by using volun­Habitat for Humanity. teer labor, management exper­
University of Notre Dame Habitat's Notre Dame chapter tise and donations of moneyPresident Father Edward Mal­has enlisted more than 100 stu­and materials. loy will preside at the blessing dent volunteers this year, and of Sam and Betty Kariuki's new they hope to begin work on Habitat houses are sold at no house at 1056 Burns Street on another house in the Northeast profit to "partner families" Sunday, Oct. 29 at 3 p.m. Neighborhood sometime during whose members are issued no­
The Northeast Neighborhood the fall semester. interest mortgages and house, completed last June, was Habitat for Humanity is an required to invest "sweat equi­built by Notre Dame student ecumenical, Christian ministry ty" hours in the house's con­volunteers with help from the that seeks to eradicate dilapi-struction. 
page 4 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 27, 1995 

The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
"on the campus" 
~ Am..-&t, 9n.stm • SprifcMJo.shollllll~ Fii, !l&-1prn Sit, llnm-film 
till iJrourilusbaled c:alalog • 1-219-e1-6.116 


Foru01 exa01ines sexual politics Van Dyne: Feminism 
By PEGGY LENCZEWSKI first discussed the history of come out of broken marriages. Saint Mary's News Editor gays and lesbians in the United They get minimum wage jobs 
hurt by media image
States: "The history of gays and and are the easiest group to 
exploit," he explained. Storey went on to explain that gays and lesbians want "acceptance by their families. We want to be open with our families, and we want to take our partners home." 
According to Storey, "homo­sexuals have no free speech patterns, and no campus press, although that is changing some­what. We'd like to be a normal campus group."He emphasized the difficulties of being homo­sexual at Notre Dame, but also 
,stated that, "There are posi­tives. Now, more people exam­ine their qualities of life due to opposition." 
Two Notre Dame students also shared their stories, de­scribing their experiences of coming out.Tony Silva, a junior at Notre Dame, told his story with a good deal of humor. However, senior Shelley Stefan described the experience of coming out to her family as a wound that "still hasn't healed. Since I came out, my relation­ship with my family has had an infection. "Stefan emphasized that her love for her family has not change although her respect has. 
An alumna of Saint Mary's spoke last. She described her experience in the Saint Mary's community as positive, stress­ing that she received a lot of support from her friends and from GLND/SMC. She was very glad to speak at Saint Mary's, and felt very positive about PinS, saying that "it's important that when times get rough, (people) pull together." "The only cure for homophobia is education." 
By KARA PAVLIK News Writer 
Susan Van Dyne, a professor of women's studies and English at Smith college, urged women to remember their identity and what they represent in her lec­ture Thursday in Stapleton Lounge. She argued that the media distorts the image of feminists. 
"The media shows feminists as having a gender identity problem. The media portrays feminists as deviant through images punishing to women," Van Dyne said. She showed ads from tabloids to display images of feminists as "frumpy, odd· ducks" or as women "full of rage." 
During the lecture entitled "Representing Women's Stud­ies: Our Policies, Pedagogics and Public Image," Van Dyne spoke in support of Saint Mary's growing women's stud­ies department and refuted myths surrounding women and feminism. 
Van Dyne also noted the irony of the current feminist movement, calling it "the best and worst of time" for the women's movement in the US. 
While women's studies pro­grams are catalysts in chang­ing course content and teach­ing at female colleges such as Smith and Saint Mary's, these colleges are perceived as ideal­istic and overpriced, Van Dyne said. 
But she believes female col­leges are "long-term invest­ments" where women's ideas and aspirations are taken seri­ously. There, women's studies provide an especially congenial community for female scholars, according to Van Dyne. 
"With over 600 women's studies programs nationwide, the feminist community is a hub for intellectual activity. No matter how homogenous the school, there is a more wide­spread commitment to women of color, gays." 
Although the status of women continues to improve, Van Dyne says that the "fear of female power still creates problems." She states that this is shown in political cartoons in which feminism continues to be depicted as a "PC atrocity." 
"Women's studies has been attacked for being too unaca­demic or too immersed in late 20th century thought. But the reality of women's history can­not be denied. The playing field for women has yet to be lev­eled." 
According to Van Dyne, fem­inism is a movement that is still being defined. When the move­ment began in the 1970s, pop­ular feminism focused on per­sonal, shared experiences between females. In the 1'980s, the movement grew to focus on the role of blacks and lesbians,. 
While Van Dyne says that women's studies and lesbian­ism do have a degree of over­lap, lesbianism is by no means the heart of feminism. "Feminism is a place for both heterosexuals and homosexu­als. I would hate to say that a lesbian would make a better feminist," she said. 
Last night the group currently ealling itself People in Support (PinS) met last night at the Club House at Saint Mary's College to hear four speakers share their stories about their homosexuality in a forum enti­tled "Telling Our Stories: A Step Towards Right Helations." 
Max Westler, Associate Pro­fessor of English at Saint Mary's College, introduced the speakers by emphasizing that "we are not an official group, and we do not represent Saint Mary's policy. Group is too strong a word for us; we'd like to sponsor events and acciden­tal meetings."We are a collec­tion of random people who rep­resent no one but ourselves, and we want to raise aware­ness. We're going to keep doing this." 
Bill Storey. Professor of The­ology emeritus at Notre Dame, 
SALON 

NOUVEAU 
'-------.......·...·· 
An AVEDA® 
Concept Salon 1357 N. Ironwood (Corner of Edison & Ironwood) 
A'v'EDA. 
234-6767 
....,..:.-.::.::::::..::?:-.... 
-c-·..C..·~~ 
lesbians is not very well docu­mented; it has not been given a lot of time and attention by his­torians." 
According to Storey, gays and lesbians have stories of exodus from "small, hate-filled smaller communities to find a home and a promised land." He stat­ed that, just like racial prej­udice, prejudice against homo­sexuals is "based on irrational considerations." · 
Storey stated that homosex­uality is "a feature of human life that has always existed. During different times they were either respected or put to death. "Storey also explained that the gay and lesbian move­ments were two different move­ments, and that the gay move­ment "despised the lesbian movement." 
"Lesbians tend to be poor and often have children, since they 

Services: 
Stress Relief, Skin Care, Hair Care I Styling, Make-up, Nail Care, Pedicure. 

• Appointments or walk·lns taken, when not busy . 
Expire! Nov 30th · Not Valid w/ Halter Oe1igners. 
Come Experience 
The Aveda 

Concept! Enjoy $5 off any Full Service with this coupon. 
Congratulations to Professor James McAdams The 1995 Sheedy Award Winner Sheedy Award Presentation CCE Auditorium 3:30 pm Friday, October 27, 1995 All are invited to attend.  

~---------­
-------------------------------~---------------------------------------------------------­
-

page6 The Observer • NEWS 

Trophy 
continued from page 1 
of the two schools is so closely related, that it was something able to be embodied in a trophy for both student bodies. 
With this in mind, Mitchell proposed the idea of the trophy to Student Government, Presi­dent Jonathan Patrick and Vice President Dennis McCarthy were enthusiastic about it and why it needed to be done. 
"We at Student Government thought that relations between the students here and at Boston College were not as good as they should be. There are so many Notre Dame students who have friends who go to BC that we really felt we should do something to make this rivalry friendlier," said Patrick. 
After receiving the go-ahead from Student Government, Mitchell commenced his plans to design a trophy that would herald what the two schools stand for and have in common. 
The football connection shared by Notre Dame and Boston College even includes one coach, Frank Leahy, who led the Eagles to a 20-2-0 record in 1939 and 1940 and then headed for Notre Dame, where he brought four National Championships in 11 seasons as lwad coach. Both renowned Catholic institutions, Notre Dame and Boston College were built by generations of Irish Americans and continue to up­hold this heritage, as well as that of the multiculturally di­verse student bodies of both campuses. In that spirit, the trophy should inspire a spirit of sportsmanship and unity be­tween South Bend and Chest­nut Hill. 
The trophy itself is made of green leaded crystal, to with­stand the jostling of the win­ning team and the travel to and from both campuses. 15 inch­es tall by 12 inches wide, the crystal was cut in the shape of the island of Ireland and is engraved with a shamrock with the names Notre Dame and Boston College surround­ing it. 
The shamrock represents both the Catholic character and unity of BC and Notre Dame. It is the symbol Saint Patrick used to celebrate the trinity in Irish tradition. 
The trophy sits in a ma­hogany base with three plaques. Two are for the recording of the game scores and the last holds an inscrip­tion which dedicates the trophy to the standards Mitchell, Klei­derer and Student Government hope the trophy will embody. 
"There are few schools which share as much tradition as Notre Dame and Boston Col­lege. Therefore it is only fitting that there be a spirit of respect, sportsmanship, friendship and competition between the stu­dents of both schools...It is ex­tended to al the students of Boston College as a token of goodwill, camaraderie and friendly rivalry. May the sham­rock inspire the students of Notre Dame and Boston College to recognize the diversity which makes them unique and at the same time celebrate all that unifies them." 
Notre Dame and Boston Col­lege will enter selective ranks when the trophy is presented to BC Student Body President William Lyons on Saturday, in honor of BC's 30-11 victory over Notre Dame last year. Few schools have trophies that belong exclusively to the stu­dent bodies and were initiated by the students themselves. 
Perhaps the most famous of these symbols is the victory bell that travels between USC and UCLA to commemorate perhaps the greatest crosstown rivalry in the nation. The 295-pound bell is given to the winner of the game, a ceremony begun in 1942 after USC president Dr, Rufus B. von KleinSmid threat­ened to cancel the series. 
The USC students had stolen the bell from its proprietors at UCLA and conflict ensued for 3 years. In an effort to ease the tensions between the two schools, the student body presi­dents of USC and UCLA signed an accord stating that the bell would be awarded to the win­ner of the annual classic. The tradition has endured for 53 years and marks the strength of the ties between Southern California and UCLA that are still in place today. 
Notre Dame itself has several trophies it awards to the win­ner of classic games, such as NO vs. USC and NO vs. Purdue. Both these games are celebrat­ed with a shillelagh that the winner takes home after the victory. 
The Boilermaker shillelagh was given to Notre Dame by a merchant seaman who brought the club from Ireland. Notre Dame has held it since 1957. The USC shillelagh boasts emerald shamrocks embossed with the year and scores of NO victories and ruby trojan heads for USC victories. 
Notre Dame Athletic Director Michael Wadsworth fully sup­ports the Ireland Trophy and hopes it inspires all the stu­dents involved. "At a time when the NCAA is trying to en­courage a greater spirit of sportsmanship in collegiate athletics, I think the best thing about this trophy and what makes it unique are the high ideals it stands for," said Wadsworth. "A goodwill ges­ture of this nature is very time­ly and a very good example to set in collegiate athletics." 
The Notre Dame Student Government will present the trophy to the BC student body before kick-off and it will fall into the hands of the victor as the clock registers zero on Sat­urday. 
An Inside Look At the Do~ninican Way of Life 
You are invited to attend a week­end ofprayer, reflection, and sharing at St. Catharine, Kentucky. 

November 17-19 
or November 24-26 
For more information call Sister Joann Mascari, OP (502) 367 -6696 
23rd Annual Summer Program 
NO  SMC  
Students  
[L(Q)[T))cd]@[T))  ~@[j'ffi)@  
McmJY gg  =  Dilll[T))® g~­ Dilll[T))®  ~  © =  Dilll~JY  ~  ss  

rravel in Ireland, Scotland, & France Travel in France, Germany, & Switzerland 
Courses offered in 

Biology, Photography, Sociology, Business & Economics, History, Italian 
Organizational I Meeting -October 3 
7:00 pm Carroll Hall • Pizza Social • 
Past student and faculty participants will be present. For information call Prof. Black. 284-4460 or 272-3726 
Friday, October 27, 1995 



Bordt 
continued from page 1 

the women's movement as small and lifeless. The reality. she stated, is that it is very much alive. 
Bordt served for several years on the board of an orga­nization called Inside Out: Citi­zens United for Prison Reform, Inc. It is a grass-roots organization of citizens, ex­offenders and families of those presently incarcerated; it aims to educate the public and to mediate betw~en the public and the people that actually make up prison policies. Based on her experiences. how does Bordt feel prisoners should be treated in an ideal world? She stated that "A piece of me is definitely against prisons and think they should no longer be built, that they cause greater harm than good." She suggest­ed that perhaps the less serious property and drug-related crimes should be dealt with through community service and reconciliation, i.e. by restitution toward victims and by helping criminals to see the error of their ways. 
On the other hand, she noted, a piece of her acknowl­edges that "there is a small percentage of offenders who are very dangerous and maybe should be locked up." However, she challenged the idea that the more serious crimes should be equated with longer sen­tences. She feels this way because she believes that in reality, the longer a person stays in prison. the more skilled one becomes in one's criminal ways, and thus the more bitter and unproductive one becomes. Bordt sees crime as more of a societal problem than the fault of the individual: she believes that were criminals given the same economic and education­al opportunities as the rest of society, they would be able to remove themselves from their unlawful ways of life. 
Bordt is involved with the South Bend Dismas House. a place where Notre Dame stu­dents can live alongside ex-of­fenders. She advocates this as an excellent opportunity for the students to "become exposed to the real world and with people with different opportunities and lives." She stated that "It opens their eyes to race and class is­sues and gives them the chance to see the diversity of the real world in contrast to the homo­geneity of the Notre Dame stu­dent body." 

The Council for the Retarded in conjunction with the Logan Center desperately needs tickets for the 



NAVY 
Game 
• 
Drop off at CSC by lUesday, I :00 pm 

• 
Only student tickets are needed. 

• 
There is a possibility that your money will be refunded. 


Please Help us reach our goal of 50 tickets. For more information call: Michael Carney @ 634-I 057 Shane Kaniecki @ 284-5 156 

JAZZMAN's 
NITE CLUB 
525 N. Hill Street 
I • • 
VILLAGE PEOPLE 
COLLEGE FRIDAY DISCO NIGHT PARTY 



'"DISCO 
• Doors open 9:00 PM: Dance Floors Open Until Close or Dance 'Tiii-U-Drop. 
' ' .. •• • 
With this ad Receive a $2.00 merchandise redemption coupon upon entry. One per customer. Void unless validated at door at time of entry. 

Investigation considers role of faulty light 
By JAMES WEBB 
Associated Press 
FOX RIVER GROVE, Ill. 
Moments before a commuter train slammed into a school bus stopped at a traffic light, killing seven students, the police chief and an engineer arrived at the crossing to inspect the balky signal, authorities said Thursday. 
The light is supposed to au­tomatically turn green and clear the tracks as trains ap­proach, but "the timing doesn't appear to be proper," National Transportation Safety Board member John Goglia said. 
Investigators are trying to determine why the bus carrying 35 students remained in the path of the train Wednesday. They began testing the light overnight and were seeking police phone logs to check for complaints about the signal. 
Hesidents said they've been complaining for a long time about poor coordination be­tween the gates and signals at the crossing and the stop light at the intersection just beyond. 
"People have been saying something's going to happen because it's just not timed right," said Jim Homola, who was in his car behind the bus when the train hit. 
Truck driver Charlie Ward said he was caught in a dan­gerous squeeze at the same intersection only a half hour earlier. 
"You do not get a green light to clear the intersection before the railroad signals and gate come down," Ward said. "You got to wait until something big happens to get these ding­dongs out here to get something done." 

ool bus crash 
At least five people were killed when a suburban commuter train crashed into a school bus in Fox River Grove, Ill. 
Drawings are schematic 
The impact of the train sheared the cab of the bus off its chassis and spun it around 180 degrees. The cab came to rest on the ground next to the base of the bus. 
Five students died Wednes­day, and two more died Thurs­day after they were taken off life support. Eight other stu­dents remained hospitalized, 
The bus The bus was carrying about 30 students. The gate came down as it waited at a red light, the rear portion still on the tracks. As students saw the train approaching the back of the bus. many ran toward the front. 
Powerless to stop The engineer hit the brakes, but was unable to stop. The train continued a short distance down the track. 
AP/Karl Gude, Eileen Glanton 

two in critical condition. 
At the 1,400-student Cary­Grove High School in Cary, near this bedroom community about 40 miles northwest of Chicago, students pinned white paper to their shirts with the names of the dead on them. Many held hands. Boys and girls wept together. 
"No one is doing any learn­ing, they're just sitting and cry­ing," said 16-year-old Melanie Jopek. 
Dozens of bouquets and me­mentos were placed against the crossing gates: balloons, poems, a red candle, a white cross and two white teddy bears with red hearts. 
The Chicago-bound express train was traveling between 50 and 60 mph. well below the 70 mph limit, when it hit the brakes. The impact sheared the body of the bus off the chassis, spinning it around 180 degrees. Nobody on the train was injured. 
Federal officials said the bus is designed to break apart in a high-speed crash, to put dis­tance between the occupants and the gas tank. 
The crossing was guarded by a gate, bells, flashing lights and signs, but space is tight between the stoplight and the tracks, said Chris Knapton, a spokesman for Metra, Chicago's suburban commuter train agency. 
Sensors embedded in the tracks are supposed to change the crossing's traffic light to green as a train approaches, allowing vehicles to clear the intersection. But some wit­nesses reported that the light was red, which could have pre­vented the bus from moving into the heavy morning traffic. 
Goglia said the bus was at least 35 feet long, while the space between the tracks and the stop line for the intersection is 30 feet. 6 inches. 

Lawsuit aims at protection 
By WILLIAM C. CRUM Associated Press 
PORTLAND, Ore. 
Abortion rights organizations today filed a class-action law­suit aimed at silencing some of the nation's most militant anti­abortion activists and seeking at least $200 million in dam­ages. 
The lawsuit, filed in U.S. District Court in Portland, is the first nationwide class action intended to protect abortion doctors and clinic workers from violence, said Jane Johnson, interim president of the Planned Parenthood Federation of America. 
"These threats of violence have been allowed to continue for far too long and have over­shadowed the lives and well­being of many abortion providers across the country." Johnson said in a statement. 
Details of the lawsuit were being announced in news con­ferences in Portland and in New York City. 
The lawsuit seeks to link killings of abortion doctors and clinic workers to anti-abortion activists around the country, including the American Coali­tion of Life Activists and Ad­vocates for Life Ministries, both based in Portland. 
The lawsuit alleges that "unwanted" posters giving information about abortion doctors amount to threats that violate federal racketeering laws. 



A Mass in Memory of 



Edward}. Murphy 
The John N. Matthews Professor ofLaw, Emeritus 
will be offered at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart on 
Friday, October 27, 1995 5:15pm 
Father William Beauchamp, C.S.C., Presider 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 8 
Abroad 
continued from page I 
world and we would like to have _opportunities available for Notre Dame students every­where. in places such as Africa or Asia, but it is very time-con­suming and expensive for a school to start its own pro­grams in all regions. Therefore, in certain cases, it may make sense to piggy-back off of other already existing programs. We need to see where to collaborate with other schools," said committee mem­ber Dian Murray, associate dean of the college of Arts and 
Letters. 
The faculty will be key play­ers in the success of the internationalization of the cam­pus. "Hopefully there will be opportunities for faculty to expand their own horizons through additional opportuni­ties to spend time abroad, allowing them to gain first 
Group targets 'trashy' talk shows 
By CONNIE CASS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The same people who took on "gangsta rap" music have lined up a new target: TV talk shows with trashy topics like "Women Who Marry Their Rapist" and "My Daughter Is Living as a Boy." 
Denouncing daytime talk shows as "a case study of rot," former Education Secretary William Bennett announced a campaign Thursday to pressure the shows' producers, sponsors and viewers to clean up their acts. 
• 
Used books bougi1t and sold 

• 
25 categories of Books 

• 
25,CXXJ Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print Search Service: 


$200 
• Appraisals large and small 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219)232-8444 
Hillside modern home overlooking ponds with birds. lg. common rooms w/ piano. Qn. bds. Smoke-free. NC. Swim Full breakfast 

The Observer I Katie Kroener 
Eyes on the Prize 
As part of a joint project with Habitat for Humanity, the architecture school sponsored a design competi­tion which was won by the design team of Johnny Cruz, Marianela Gaga, and Sean Tobin. 
"What is happening today is the pollution of the human en­vironment," Bennett, a Repub­lican, said after screening snip­pets of the offending shows at a joint news conference with Sen. Joseph Lieberman, D-Conn. 
The talkmeisters were quick to talk back. 
"It's a real elitist view for a guy like this to stand up and say, 'I don't think 4.5 million people should watch this," said Sally Jessy Raphael, citing her own show's viewership. "These people have as much right to watch their show as he has to watch 'Nightline.' " 
Bennett, one of the Republi­
-------------, 





CP(Q>WC3ffif&~
HOURS: Monday-Thursday 7 am to 10 pm • Friday 7 am to 8 pm • Saturday 9 am to 7 pm • Sunday 9 am to 5 pm 
21 Tans For $2 
NOTRE DAME 277-1166 
Wal/clng distance from N.D. 
Must" be 18 or ok:ier. One per o.asQ'ner.
L Not-w1lflln)f-~Exprioo11-115-9fi 
CACTUS JACK'S MEXICAN 
GRILL AND CANTINA 
• Weekly Food Specials • 
• 
Monday-SI .50 Black bean and cheese burritos 

• 
Taco Tuesday-A fish taco with a taco ·of your choice for S2.oo 

• 
Wednesday-s1.50 for 4 taquitos (rolled tacos) 

• 
Sundays-SI .25 quesadillas • Everyday • 


Martin'I
S 1 .oo tostadas (try 'em with black beans and sour cream!) 
Support an Alumnus call 277-5225 (Jack) 
i"'':::~~... 
Yeltsin suffers second recent heart attack Russians 
By jULIA RUBIN Associated Press 
MOSCOW 
President Boris Yeltsin was rushed to a hospital by heli­copter Thursday with his sec­ond apparent heart attack in four months, reviving doubts about whether he is healthy enough to govern Russia. 
The 64-year-old Yeltsin has dominated post-Soviet Russia, and his health is a matter of eonstant speculation, particu­larly with parliamentary elec­tions scheduled for December and presidential elections in June. 
The illness came two days af­ter a summit in the United Statns where Yeltsin succeeded in boosting his and Russia's role in eiTorts to settle the war in the former Yugoslavia. 
Aides said Thursday night that Yeltsin did not appear to require surgery. 
"I'd say his state is less seri­ous than in July." spokesman Igor lgnatiev told reporters at the Kremlin. "The president is in charge." 
Yeltsin was hospitalized for almost a month, then took a long holiday after an attack in July of aeute ischemia, a condi­tion that restricts blood flow to the heart. 
Presidential aides initially tried to play down that attack, claiming it was only a minor ailmenl. Yeltsin later called it a heart attack. 
Top presidential aide Viktor Ilyushin said Thursday that Yeltsin was suffering from the same ailment. and he blamed it on overwork. 
"The president's condition 
a smooth layer of  
epithelial cells  
Fatty deposits  
beneath these cells  
narrow the artery  
Eventually, calcium  
deposits build up in the  
artery walls, restricting  
blood flow. Lack of  
blood supply to an area  
of heart muscle causes  
a heart attack.  
Ischemia  • stress  
reduces blood flow to the heart.  • high cholesterol •age  Symptoms may Include  
• chronic high  • difficulty breathing  
blood pressure  • chest pains  
• obesity  • dizziness  
• heredity  • nausea  


Veltsin's heart condition 
Russian President Boris Yeltsin was stricken with the same heart problem that sent him to the hospital in July, acute ischemia. 
A healthy artery has 
does not evoke great opti­mism," he told a news confer­ence. "It's unlikely he'll be back at work in the next few days." 
He said Yeltsin has canceled a trip to China early next month, and is making other changes in his immediate schedule. A decision was to be made Friday on whether Yeltsin would host a planned summit Tuesday of the leaders of Bosnia, Croatia and Serbia. 
Acute ischemia can be caused by stress, high cholesterol, age or chronic high blood pressure. Symptoms include difficulty breathing and chest pains. 
Throughout his presidency, Yeltsin has had periods of poor health and has been dogged by rumors of drinking. He has ap­pe,ared fitter recently, however, and aides have talked about his making a bid for a second pres­idential term in June. 
Yeltsin has said he is waiting until after parliamentary elec­tions to decide. His popularity has been hurt in recent years by the country's declining econ­omy and other problems. 
Before leaving for France and the United States last week, he told reporters he was fit enough to challenge President Jacques Chirac of France to a tennis game. 
And he tried to demonstrate his improving health in September by playing tennis with President Alexander Lukashenko of Belarus. 
Aides said Thursday, how­ever, that the president had shown signs of exhaustion at the end of his U.S. trip. Ilyushin said he was working too hard on the flight home. 
"In the future," he said, "Yeltsin's foreign trips should foresee a certain time for his normal adaptation to different time zones, and several days of rehabilitation after the pres­sure during the flight." 
Yeltsin was brought to the Central Clinical Hospital, tradi­tionally used by Kremlin lead­ers, on Thursday afternoon from his country residence. 
If Yeltsin were unable to serve, Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin would take over. Elections would have to be held within three months if the pres­ident died. 
Chernomyrdin's spokesman said Thursday that the prime minister had made no changes in his schedule. 
Yeltsin wields so much power in Russia that analysts said it is hard to imagine what would happen if he were totally inca­pacitated. 
"To put it bluntly this is a po­litical crisis because the presi­dent in the Russian system means too much, from the le­gal, economic, military and all other points of view," said Vik­tor Kremenyuk of the USA­Canada Institute, a think tank. 
Yeltsin gained prominence in 1985 when Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev appointed him Communist Party chief in Moscow. 

"The Beet Tan Under The Sun" 
•Beds, Booths &: Euros 
•
Open 7Days AWeek 

•
Convenient Hours 

•
Student Discounts 


(M.r.J«J~ 
256-9656 
Will..... 
HwU&Air 
Grab a Cup of Coffee from South Bend's Newest Oasis to Warm Up before or after the Game! 
Edison Plaza • 1631 Edison Rd. 
(across from the Linebacker) 
(219) 273-6216 
.. 
Monday-Friday 7:00a.m.-Midnight Saturday 9:00a.m. -Midnight Now Open Sunday lOa.m. • lOp.m.• 
*limited menu on Sunda Onl ! 

declassify 1960's data 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 
In their haste to fix a Soviet ballistic missile so it could be launched on schedule, work­ers made a fatal mistake. They gave the missile the signal to go, ignoring that the fuel tanks were already full. 
Thirty-five years after the explosion, which killed 7 4 peo­ple, the Russian government has released the details of what went wrong during the 1960 test of the intercontinen­tal missile. 
A report Thursday in the military newspaper Krasnaya Zvezda said the disaster was caused by workers who, rush­ing to carry out the launch on schedule, were fixing a prob­lem in the circuitry with the missile's fuel tanks already filled. 
An erroneous electric signal prematurely launched the mis­sile's second phase, causing the missile to explode. The report, citing documents declassified this week, also suggested military officers ig­nored safety rules by standing close to the missile. 
Footage of the disaster shown on the NTV television network showed wounded offi­cers running amid a sea of fire. Marshal Mitrofan Nedelin, who commanded the Soviet Strategic Missile Force, was among those killed. 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
COLD SOI{ES? Apply LYCALL OINTMENT when you feel that first tingle, and the cold sore may not break out at all. Or if it has, LYCALL OINTMENT may help get rid of it in a day or two. ASK YOUR DRUGGIST, or send $4.95 for 8 Om to: 
CALEB LABORATORIES, INC. 529 S. Seventh Sr. Minneapolis, MN 55415 Satisfaction Guaranteed 
"Consider the cost of room and board for the next several years. Now, consider $298* per month at · North Shore Club" 
A great investmentfor students, parents and alumni. 
• 
Condominiums and townhomes as low as $49,900 

• 
just minutes from Notre Dame 


Furnished models on displa~
• Vacation home for game weekends 
Thursday through Monday l-5 I~M. 
• 
No exterior maintenance or by appointment 

• 
Beautiful waterfront settings 



for more information 
Angeltlllllhe St. joseph Rit•er in Sou/b Bend •M<»JUilv 1'"1""'"' of ~ OUillllt.L'<~ """ purdl:l., pnt~ <H<'l.'XXI •iutiiiK. <klll11iUKI" ,l().I<'Jf 7'X. ti.RM. Call (219} 232-2002 
page 10 The Observer • NEWS Friday, October 27, 1995 
91-year old receives Judge dis01isses bo01bing juror 
AIDS from bite to hand 
Associated Press 
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. 
Florida health officials say researchers hired by the CDC have confirmed that a 91-year­old man was infected with the AIDS virus when he was bitten by a prostitute, a newspaper reported. 
It's the first case of blood-to­blood HIV transmission through a human bite to be confirmed by the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta, the Sun­Sentinel in Fort Lauderdale reported in its Friday editions. 
Investigators working for the CDC determined the strain of the virus infecting prostitute Naomi Morrison matched the strain found in Elmer Hutto, whom she bit while trying to rob last year in West Palm Beach. 
Researchers said blood, not merely saliva, was responsible for the transmission, because Morrison had bleeding gums when she bit Hutto violently on the left hand, left arm and right leg. 
The CDC has never confirmed a case of HIV infection through saliva alone. 
"Many, many, many bites have been investigated, but this is the first time the HIV virus has been transmitted to the vic­tim," Palm Beach County health department director Dr. Jean Malecki told the paper. 
State officials alerted to the case by the CDC cautioned against panic, emphasizing the rarity of factors that combined for the first such confirmed diagnosis in more than 15 years of AIDS reporting. 
"The good news is that, over the years, we have taken hun­dreds of calls from police offi­cers and children saying they were bitten" and none have resulted in transmission of HIV, said Tom Liberti, an epidemiol­ogist who administers Florida's office of disease intervention. 
Nevertheless, Palm Beach County health officials issued an alert to employees at 3,000 day care centers, schools, fire and police departments, doc­tors' offices and hospitals to be aware of the potential danger of bites. 
With the CDC's approval, state health officials also re­ported the case on the CDC's 
~eb 'n ~reafifast ~egistry 
South Bmds Fim &gistry ofPrivate Homes ']{!1 Serving Parmt:r and Friends ofNom Dame andcP Soint Marys Colkge-Try the OPT/OM 
Enjoy 4 ·Home AwiiJftom Home· 
Perfect for Graduation, Football, JPW, Freshman Orientation. Rt:unions W'dma L ~~choke (219) 291-7153 






$2300 
FLAT MONTHLY FEE! 
for long distance calls to: 
ELKHART • WAKARUSA 
• BRISTOL• DUNLAP MIDDLEBURY•GOSHEN 
If you're spending more than $23.00 per month for calls to these areas, 
YOU'RE PAYING TOO MUCH! 
We can start your service today ... 
START SAVING NOW! 
NO SPECIAL LINE OR INSTALLATION 

CALLUSAT 1-800-360-4990 Mon.-Fri. 'til 8 p.m. 
home page on the Internet, read by public health officials around the country. 
Bob Howard, chief spokesman for the CDC in Atlanta, told The Associated Press late Thursday that he didn't have the case file with him and couldn't comment. 
The laboratory report to CDC came from Roche Molecular Systems in Alameda, Calif., which compared the strain of the HIV virus found in the blood of both Morrison and Hutto. 
The results "are consistent with person-to-person trans­mission," Roche senior scien­tist Barbara Bowman wrote on Oct. 12 to Dr. Marcia Kalish, chief of molecular biology in the CDC's division of HIV/AIDS. 
Morrison is serving a 10-year sentence for aggravated bat­tery, robbery and burglary of a vehicle. Hutto has moved in with his daughter near West Palm Beach and has not devel­oped AIDS-related symptoms. 
FLOWERS DELIVERED rli7 DAYSrli 
By PAUL QUEARY 
Associated Press 
OKLAHOMA CITY 
A grand juror who violated secrecy rules because he was angry that prosecutors pre­sented no evidence of a larger conspiracy in the federal build­ing bombing was thrown off the panel Thursday and threatened with imprisonment if he speaks out again. 
"I just want the truth out. I don't care if I have to go to jail," said Hoppy Heidelberg, 55. 
Heidelberg, a horse breeder from Blanchard, said Chief U.S. District Judge David Russell dismissed him in a letter that threatened to hold him in con­tempt if he violates secrecy rules further. He could face up to six months if held in con­tempt. 
The grand jury indicted Timothy McVeigh and Terry Nichols in August on murder and conspiracy charges in the April 19 bombing that killed 169 people. The panel has since heard other cases, but it is 
Flowers, Roses, Balloons, Birthday Cakes, Fruit Baskets, Plush Animals and Gifts 

C/ocktower Square 
ALL MAJOR CREDIT Phone Answered 
51400 US 31 North 
24 Hours a Day
South Bend CARDS ACCEPTED 
277-1291 or 1-800-328-0206 
HaPPY 21st BirthdaY 
Joon••• 
You·re leeal now!! 
From: 
Ji Youns~ Jacob. HookY. Theo. Maria. JennY. Steve. lnsak. 
Suzie. D. Brisette. Min. Ji 
expected to be disbanded soon. 
The indictment accuses McVeigh and Nichols of acting with "others unknown" to plot the bombing. 
"There's considerable evi­dence that there were more than two people involved, and that should have been pre­sented," Heidelberg said. "The families of the victims need to know. America needs to know." 
Heidelberg especially ob­jected to prosecutors' refusal to present evidence about John Doe No. 2, th-e man in FBI sketches released soon after the bombing. Authorities later admitted that the sketches re­sembled an innocent Army pri­vate, but the drawings were never withdrawn. 
Though grand juries can vote to hear whatever evidence they deem necessary, in practice the panels are effectively controlled by prosecutors. 
Assistant U.S. Attorney Steve Mullins, a spokesman for the prosecution, would not com­ment specifically on Heidelberg's comments. 
An anonymous interview with Heidelberg appeared in Media Bypass. a magazine with ties to anti-government militia groups, but Heidelberg said he thought the reporter would not print the material until the panel dis­banded. 
A phone call to the Evansville, Ind., office of Media Bypass was not answered. 
Defense lawyers cited the article in their motion for dis­missal of the indictment. However, Attorney General Janet Reno said Thursday that authorities have "no reason to have concern about the in­tegrity of the indictments." 
McVeigh and Nichols both could face the death penalty if convicted. 
Have something to say? Use 0 bserver classifieds. 
Free 
Oct. 30, 1995 
6:30 pm •10:00 pm 118 Nieuwland 

Sign up in 101 O'Shaughnessy 
The legends of college football come to life at the new College Football Hall of Fame! Action-packed interactive displays put you in the middle of the game, while reflective photo galleries and time-honored artifacts ... 
celebrate the history and lore of college football's greatest athletes and coaches. 
Explore the color and pagear.try of the world of college football ­an experience the whole family is sure to enjoy! 
Knule Rockne. Coach, Noire Dame, 1918·30. Inducted 1951. 
College EootballHalle&me 
South Bend, Indiana • (219) 235-9999 
Photograph courtesy of Studebaker Na11onal Museum. Inc. 




Immigrants affect battle for secession 
By DAVID CRARY 
Associated Press 
MONTREAL 
The battle over whether Quebec leaves Canada is a battle for the soul of the province's French-speaking majority. But in a race too close to call, voters from places like China and Greec!l will play a pivotal role. 
HBc!lnt immigrants account for 10 percent of Quebec's 7.3 million people. A large majority of them favor staying in Canada, and many worry that a separatist victory in Monday's referendum would transform them into outsiders in their own home. 
However, even slight immigrant support could swing the vote in favor of secession. 
The largest immigrant groups are Italians and Greeks, but there are nearly 300,000 blacks and Asians. There was dis­may in their communities when separatist leader Lucien Bouchard recently referred to Quebeckers as "one of the white races." 
"To us, we are all Quebeckers, and it's disappointing when someone makes a distinction," said Cynthia Lam, a Chinese­Canadian woman who directs a community organization in Chinatown helping recent immigrants get settled. 
Gaby Luonga-Kombe, a Zaire native who heads an anti­racism group, said he received threatening phone calls after he publicly criticized Bouchard's remark. 
"We're in a democratic country, but we can't even say what we think," he said. 
Polls indicate that separatists could at most expect to get 10 percent of the immigrant vote, but even that margin would markedly improve separatists' chances of victory. 
"EARN CASH by DONATING 
You could earn: 
$30°0after your first plasma donation! 
$15°0  if you donate alone (first visit)  
+$ 5°0  if you show college I. D. (first visit)  
+$1 000  per person ~you recruit someone and they donate  

$30°0 TOTAL! Help Us Save Lives Must be 18 years old; proof of current address with photo I. D. 
COME TO: 
AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL 515 LINCOLNWAY WEST SOUTH BEND, IN 46601-1117 

WfiiiD~~ ®ff ~nn ffil~W@If~~ 
Daily Lunch Specials 4 TV Screens 

IID~Iflt~ 
HOURS: M-F: 9-6 SAT: 8-5 
234-6010 
Coming apart at the seams? 
On October 30, the people of Quebec go to the polls to determine whether they will separate from the rest of Canada. This is the second such vote. In 1980, the separatists lost by a 60-40 margin. 

• Became French colony in 1663. Taken over by British in 1763. Incorporated into Canadian confederation in 1867. 
o Quebec is 594,860 square miles (1.54 million square kilometers) and would be the world's 18th largest country. 
• 
At 7 million, it has one-quarter of Canada's population, 82 percent of whom speak French as their first language. 

• 
The province's $120 billion gross domestic product makes it roughly comparable to Austria, and one fifth of Canada's total GDP. 


The referendum 
If Quebeckers vote to separate, the province will negotiate for up to a year on the details. They reserve the right to unilaterally declare independence at any point during that time. 
The issues 
• 
Quebec's language and cultural autonomy. _ 

• 
Whether a sovereign Quebec will have the right to use Canadian currency and passports. What the new economic relationship will look like. 

• 
What Quebec's share of the national debt will be. 

• 
Native territory in Quebec. Cree leaders are in favor of remaining in Canada or being independent of both Canada and Quebec if the split occurs. 


Possible effects 
• 
Canadian dollar falls. 

• 
Stocks, bonds, currency lose value. 


o Interest rates rise. 
• Treaties and agreements with the 
U.S. subject to review 
French tourism suffers after wave of bombings 
By MARILYN AUGUST 
Associated Press 
PARIS 
Nuclear testing, a wave of terrorist bombings and stiff competition from friendlier European destinations are dri­ving tourists away from France, the world's No. 1 vaca­tion spot. 
But the French government, aghast at the spector of shrink­ing lines outside the Eiffel Tower and the Louvre, is fight­ing back with an aggressive plan to woo back wary fran­cophiles -and seduce new ones. 
President Jacques Chirac's resumption of nuclear testing in the South Pacific has 
prompted Japanese, Scandinavian, Australian and other environmentally aware travelers to cancel or postpone visits to France, Tourism Minister Francoise de Panafieu said. 
A wave of terrorist bombings that has left seven dead and more than 160 wounded since July also has scared off many francophiles. 
The Louvre museum said the number of visitors was down 14 percent in September com­pared to a year earlier. France's national railway com­pany likewise reports that rail traffic declined "considerably" in August and September, after bombings in the subway and near the Champs-Elysees. 
Weekly 


~an~~u~l~! 
Monday 25C Wings 
Tuesday & Wednesday More than just wings! 
Thursday Fea~t for Four ~1995 
•50 Wings
•Curly Fnes 
•One Drink Pitcher 
AsK AsouT OuR WALL OF FLAME 
838 University Center 6502 Grape Road 
(between Service Merchandise & Best Buy) 
Phone 273-0088 

Conference focuses on 
•

economics 
By JAMAL HAIABY Associated Press 
AMMAN, Jordan 
The Middle East opens one of its largest ever economic con­ferences Sunday as business and government leaders seek to spur growth in a region where political turmoil has stunted development. 
Some 2,000 participants from 60 nations are expected at the Oct. 29-31 gathering in Amman, many of them looking to finance projects or line up deals as the region moves hesi­tantly toward greater coopera­tion. 
Middle Eastern economies still lag behind those in other emerging regions such as Southeast Asia and Latin America. Regional trade is lim­ited and many governments continue to play a dominant role in the national economy, reluctant to relinquish control to the private sector. 
A similar conference last year in Casablanca, Morocco, marked the first large-scale gathering devoted to regional economic development, but it produced more promises than results. 
This time, organizers plan to announce the creation of a $6 billion Middle East Develop­ment Bank, though support is still somewhat shaky and a number of countries are un­likely to provide funding. 
The United States, which will be represented by Secretary of State Warren Christopher. strongly supports the bank as a way to bolster Mideast peace. 
However, some European governments feel there are al­ready enough lenders in the region, and some Mideast countries want a comprehen­sive Israeli-Arab peace settle­ment before they commit any funds to the proposed bank, which would be based in Cairo. 
Jordan, which signed a peace treaty with Israel one year ago, hopes the conference will convince foreign investors to come to the kingdom in large numbers. 
The government has drawn up a list of 27 projects that would cost an estimated at $3.5 billion. Among them is an ambitious plan to link the elec­tric power grids of Egypt, Jordan, Israel and the Palestinians. 
"We lived through many years of wars, conflicts and troubles. But with peace at hand, prosperity should prevail through development and re­warding investments," said Trade Minister Ali Abu­Ragheb. 
In the latest sign of increased cooperation, Israel and Jordan signed a trade agreement Wednesday that reduces tar­iffs. 
Earlier this year Jordan's Parliament lifted a 4 7 -year-old boycott on dealings with Israel. Lawmakers also approved an investment law which removed a 49 percent ceiling on foreign ownership in firms. 
"We believe doing business with the Arab countries will be to their benefit as well as ours," said Mendy Barak of the Federation of the Israeli Chambers of Commerce. "Israel imports $27 billion worth of goods per year from countries all over the world. We also want to buy from our Arab neighbors." 



VIEWPOINT 
page 12 Friday, October 27, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-747J SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notte Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
John Lucas Managing Editor Business Manager Elizabeth Regan Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor.................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ...................... Jen Mackowiak Sports Editor............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. lr does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institmion. The news is reported as aCcurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoricy of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Pharo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Vie"'J'Oint E-Mail Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Job prospects for college graduates: What's the problem? 
Students arriving at the "Ivies" this fall are encountering a surprising phenome­non. Women's studies courses outnum­ber economics classes, often by as much as two to one. Princeton remains the lone exception, but not by much: 25 women's studies courses compared with 32 in economics. This phenomenon has something to do with the fact that over 50 percent of those who graduated from college in May still cannot find jobs appropriate for their degrees. 
But that's only half the picture; the fol­lowing anecdote completes it. New Republic editor and outspoken liberal Michael Kinsley wrote this of his attempt to hire a recent college graduate as his research assistant: "[T]he government makes it comically difficult for the hon­est citizen to hire a single employee." Comical to some, but not to the new graduate. Kinsley said government regu­lation "plunges you into an entirely new dimension of complexity as an employ­er" with "a minimum of 37 different forms and 50 separate checks to hire a single employee for a year." As a result of government regulation, Kinsley's young assistant ended up right back where he found her: in the unemploy­ment line. 
Two simple reasons explain why half of today's college graduates cannot find jobs befitting their degree. First, col­leges are not preparing students ade­quately and employers know it. They are focusing on fads such as women's stud­ies rather than spending limited resources on core academic subjects. And second, burgeoning government regulation is having a pernicious, and often underestimated, impact on the job market. 
Thanks to a dramatic shift in the direction of college curricula, a degree no longer indicates proficiency in the basic skills. The New York Times report­ed that employers, "express a lack of confidence in the ability of schools and colleges to prepare young people for the workplace." According to a major report by the National Center on the Educational Quality of the Workforce, employers, well aware of grade infla­tion, "pay little attention to measure­ments of school performance." Nevzer Stacey of the Department of Education went one step further: "Employers have given up on the schools." 
What are our colleges and universities doing wrong? While skill requirements for employment are increasing (57 per­cent of employers say skill requirements have increased). the quality and sub­stance of our educational institutions are eroding. Except at a few select schools which have maintained their commitment to quality academic instruction, multicultural and politically correct courses supplant classes that have practical value for future employ­ment. 
What courses are now preparing our students for the work force? At Columbia University this fall: Race Gender; and the Politics of Rock n Roll and The Invisible Women in Literature: The Lesbian Literary Tradition. At Penn: Search for Extraterrestrial Life and (lm)possible Animals. At Brown: Unilateral Acts and Split Britches Circumcision: Male and Female Jewish and Gentile and Daughters of Darkness: Lesbian Tropes. And Harvard, not to give students the idea that the free mar­ket might is a good thing, offers Alternative Economies: The Case Against Capitalism 1648-]848 in addi­tion to activist-oriented Status of Environmental Justice as a Public Policy Issue and AIDS Health and Human Rights. Other courses influencing stu­dents' outlook on the free market include Cornell's The Selfish Individual and the Modern World, Princeton's Income Distribution and Yale's Gender and the Politics of Resistance: Feminism Capitalism and the Third World. 
According to a recent survey in The Chronicle of Higher Education, finding a good job is the number one reason stu­dents attend college. Yet schools are so caught up in hot political issues that they have lost sight of a critical aspect of their mission: training students for the workforce. As Wendy Bounds of the Wall Street Journal said, "After an out­lay of thousands of dollars, college grad­uates discover that a bachelor's degree doesn't buy what it did 10 years ago." 
Hand in hand with higher education's own responsibility for the attrition of opportunities for college graduates is another culprit: government regulation. While Clinton panders to the twenty­something crowd with his expensive AmeriCorps and student; loan programs, his administration's regulatory policies are having a baleful effect. Businesses are forced to spend vast resources on compliance with regulations rather than on expansion and hiring. Take the paper industry for example. Over the past four years, one of the largest book paper suppliers in North America, P.H. Glatfelter, spent $180 million to satisfy regulatory requirements. That is $180 million that will not be spent developing the business or hiring new workers. 
The numbers are staggering. There are four times more federal regulations today than in 1965 and 14 times more than in 1950, totaling over 200 volumes and 132,000 pages. Estimates show reg­ulations costing the U.S. economy over $500 billion annually. Employment quo­tas, for instance, set businesses back between $5 and $8 billion annually on direct compliance (government paper­work, mandated advertising in minority newspapers, etc.). Many billions more, however, are lost in indirect costs due to the diversion of management time, resources, and energy. And according to author Thomas Sowell, minorities have not benefited from this loss. He says the relative economic position of minorities has actually fallen since the United States implemented employment quotas. 
As a result of new and existing regula­tions, the jobs students have counted on are just not there. Rather than pay the price of expansion, businesses are either 
• QUOTE Of THE DAY 
"How many cares one 
loses when one decides not to be something but to be someone." 
-Coco Chanel 
stagnant or cutting back. During July and August 1995, manufacturing jobs declined by an average of 38,000 per month. Yet in August alone, government increased its payroll by 73,000 jobs. That is 73,000 new bureaucrats to write, revise and enforce regulations which are largely responsible for facto­ries losing 120,000 jobs overall in 1995. 
While universities educate students in The Drama of Homosexuality (Harvard) and Spirit Possession, Shamanism, Curing and Witchcraft (Cornell). the Clinton administration is doing little to plan for the employment needs of future graduates. For instance, there are one million cosmetology grads who cannot find jobs in their field. Yet this year, there will be 200,000 new cosmetology students, many of whom will seek and receive assistance from federal loan programs. While the Clinton administra­tion demands increases in student loan program funding, those funds are not granted to students according to any reasonable estimate of what the market can sustain. Rather, this administration is more concerned about building demand for federal student loan pro­grams than in planning for employment needs. Consequently, higher education continues to send graduates into ridicu­lously glutted markets, or no markets at all. 
Is it any wonder that over 50 percent of May's graduates are still looking for the jobs they hoped their degrees would lead them to? If we continue to ignore the obvious impact of an increasingly politically correct curriculum, stagger­ing new and existing regulations, and poor investment planning with taxpayer dollars on the part of the Clinton admin­istration, recent college graduates, once our brightest hope for the future, will be increasingly unwanted in the workforce. 
KATE OBENSHAIN GRIFFIN Director ofProgram Development Young America's Foundation 

J.J.,UIHYOIO!T 
C:OM/3 TO 7HIS? 
IAJHY0!0ANYOF 7HI'3HAV870 HAPP/3N? 
a!$tovweACH 07H&R. M38UI/..TA tiFf;; 7D­G!37Ha<.. /(//3MAP&A F/JM/t-Y. /AIHY Of[) YOU 
RIJN AWAYR<OM AU. 7HAT?' I WN7 UN­CERSTANI?. .. 
I 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
Z&K&,60H/T ONA NUR5t3 
OR '30M&:IHIN~ aJOUW YOU? 


VIEWPOINT
Friday, October 27, 1995 page 13 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dear Editor: 
Lately both The Observer and Scholastic have debated the causes of the recent decline in school spirit. As a senior who has seen the Notre Dame Spirit in colossal form (Penn State '92, Florida State '93). my initial reaction to those who claimed that spirit was waning was to disbelieve them. But when several members of both the football team and marching band told me they find our student section to be "extremely quiet" (as one football player put it) -especially in com­parison to years past -I began to wonder if my skepticism was unwarranted. Are we less spirited now in the days of Powlus and Kinder than we were in the glory days of Mirer, Zorich, Rocket and Bettis? 
My definitive answer is: well, maybe. I am heartened by the thun­derous cheers that cascaded the gutsy Irish when they stomped Texas. and I firmly believe the student section will propel us to victo­ries over BC and Navy. 
But I also believe that there are those who do not appreciate fully thl~ir precious years under the Dome, and often measure their happi­ness by what the stadium scoreboard reads. Indeed, that is not spirit, that is fair-weather front-running. 
For those who may need a reminder as to the little things we need to appreciate at Notre Dame, may I suggest a fine piece of literature I've recently become absorbed in: Kevin Coyne's "Domers." This new book was written during the '92-'93 school year because Coyne wanted an inside look at our univetsity's mystique. He candidly writes about everything from SYRs to Dining Hall laughter to South Quad snowball fights to racism and sexism here. For us seniors this book reminds us of what it was like when the option was run effec­tively. For this year's freshmen it can remind you of what Notre Dame truly represents: solidarity, community, spirituality, family. Now go raise hell in the stands. 
ALEX MONTOYA 
Senior 
St. Edward's Hall 
The fading love affair with ND football 
Dear Editor: 
•
"There is no greater love affair than that between the University of Notre Dame stu­dent body and their football team." -Brent Musberger, CBS-TV, following the Notre Dame victory over Miami in 1988. 

•"We 
don't have a home-field advantage anymore." -A Notre Dame football coach on Mutual Radio, 1992. 

•"It 
was a great crowd. They were loud the whole game ... the whole game." -Mike Hosenthal. offensive tackle, after the Notre Dame-Ohio State game, 1995. 

•ND 
winning percentage away 1990-93: 95 percent. At home: 75 percent. 

•Chances 
for national championships lost at home since 1989: 1990. Penn State; 1991, Tennessee; 1992, Stanford; 1993, Boston College. 


The love affair may be fading... the cul­tural heritage that helps make Notre Dame a special place in terms of family and developing the whole person, which has always found tangible expression on Saturday fall afternoons withing the con­fines of "the house that Hock built," is erod­ing. Are we (the student body and alums) blowing it? Before we blame the team or the coaches for the above catastrophes, let's look at ourselves. We are just not loud erwugh anymore. 
Intimidating a visiting team is done by total involvement by everybody present... no th11 ghosts of legends past. A team's per­formanctl is a team effort and (especially) thll Nl> student body has always been part of thtl t11am. You have a direct impact on thl! outcome of the game. The crowd at the Northwestern game was one of the worst in ND history. The library on Saturday night was louder. Sure, a lot of you did come back from break for the USC game. and you made some noi~e. But with the mar­velous way the team played, the noise occurred because of the recent all-too­familiar pattern: the team had to get the crowd up.. and even then, the result was far from the dominating level of noise and enthusiasm it used to be. So what has hap­pened? 
•Sure 
the crowd at ND Stadium is getting less and less savvy (too many "once a year" fans who act like they're visiting a shrine and have no idea how to cheer). But who's supposed to set the example and show them how to be a factor? Historically, the student body was the catalyst to make our stadium one of the toughest places for a visiting team to play; the students fired up the crowd, with the help of those alumni who came to all the games. Now we have a lottery for the alums, and students who sell their tickets. 

•Sure 
today's SAT scores are a lot higher -but instead of concluding that what goes on in our stadium on Saturday autumn afternoons is some antiquated, purile ritu­al, we collectively should be able to gauge the value of the unique cultural (and, yes, spiritual) heritage of athlete-student bond­ing that has historically transcended mere­ly winning or losing football games to affect virtually all facets of our university. The symbols of loyalty, teamwork, and a kind of "athletic Christianity" in the uncertain world of today and tomorrow are still val­ues to be nurtured. We are not nurturing them. 

•Sure 
the interminably long TV timeouts make it hard to sustain crowd momentum. But who controls the means to "rock on" through those timeouts and drown out the visitor bands? Again, it's us. We are talent­ed enough and energetic enough to figure out how to bridge the intervals and over­power the visitors. It's downright embar­


rassing to sit in ND Stadium and have the Navy band and rooters make more noise than anyone else (check the video of the seven minute mark of the first quarter 1994 Navy game). Learn to sing the damn fight songs-all of them. Most of us can't even sing the Victory March right, much less the Hike Song and On Down the Line and When the Irish Line Goes Smashing Through. We should figure out how to teach the rest of the crowd to sing them. We should make the band play them right. 
If this sounds grouchy, well, screwing up our heritage is serious stuff. Besides, we have some unfinished business. Winning the Southern Cal game was huge. But just like that victory was a triumph for the fighting spirit and courage of a depleted, banged-up, but courageous bunch of stu­dent-athletes who simply refused to quit, the Boston College game gives the rest of us a chance to redeem ourselves. Lest we forget, the BC eagle has rubbed doodoo all over the leprechaun's face for the last two years. That is our next major milestone, a chance for redemption. In 1993, we the crowd sat tamely and quietly on our back­sides as BC ruined what should have been a wonderful national championship. We waited for the team to ignite us. This time, let's ignite them! 
People talk about '96 and a shot at #1. And the team has a true shot -another good freshman class, the injured guys get well, everybody stays eligible, who knows? 
But they will need a home field advantage again. and only we can give it back to them. And we need to "start it up" now. 
PETEHERRLY NO Class of'68 MURRAY BEAULIEU NO Class of'79 
Dear Editor: 
Well here I am again, Notre Dame's #1 Fan. After being around Notre Dame for 27 years, getting to know the play­ers as young people and friends, going to football games, and watching the stu­dents cheer on their team, this student body is one of the worst. Please don't get me wrong, I'm not being a judge, I am just saying it the way I see and hear it. 
This year's team needs to know you're there not just when they score a touchdown, or tackle the ball carrier for a loss, or get an interception. but also when the chips are down. They deserve it. It's a shame that these young men have to be like cheerleaders to get the student body to cheer loud. I recall when you couldn't hear each other talk and when the opponent couldn't hear their offense. For in so many ways you become that twelfth man when you cheer with the cheer­leaders and make all that noise for that team, your team, down there on the field. So in turn you become even closer to your team and not just because down deep inside to feel you're part of the team but because you are the team. The more you get into the game by yelling, getting enthusiastic, getting excited, the more you are helping your team. Like Nike says, "Let's just do it!" 
KEITH PENROD South Bend 
Redefining what is true community spirit at Notre Dame 
Dear Editor: 
I sp1mk only of that which I claim to know and I hope these words reach those for which they are intended. I write, therefore, to persons occupying positions of privilege. For at Notre Dame we are fortunate enough to exist in an artificial and contrived environment. Observe the intricate workings of this HStllenwd University for a brief time, and you will soon arrive at the conclu­sion that it is a masterful work of art. The ability to construct a seemingly tranquil, stable community amidst vio­lent nux is to be commended, provision­ally. 
But those who fail to exert pressure upon the fragile exterior of this house of cards, above which perilously hangs the banner "God, Country, Notre Dame," abdicate their responsibility as members of the privileged class. Such exertion of critical force by no means entails the arbitrary destruction of ideals. Bather. it simply calls for perpetual, thoughtful appraisal of matters in hand. 
Those of you unwittingly purchasing the beatific portrait peddled by the administrative elite are being duped; that is, tricked by insisting on failing to question the beliefs espoused by the University at large. For it is the prevail­ing attitude on this campus to happily receive ready-made, grah-n-go ideals­the reception of which requires minimal intellectual labor. Too many blunted minds parade about the rooms of our academic and domestic quarters refus­ing to think for themselves. It is to these Domer minions that I address this state­ment. The idyllic view of the Notre Dame Experience simply does not hold for all of us. In fact, the college experi­ence amounts to a tragedy. Tragic in the sense that an overwhelming number of students relegate the intellectual life, the cultivation of which is the purpose of education, to the deplorable state of a crippled sub-culture. 
And for those searching for the ephemeral cathartic experience through immature escapism, relief is found else­where. Yet this elsewhere has been thoroughly displaced by the pseudo-cui­ture insidiously emerging in the inane alcoholic revelries in which feeble selves strive for temporary annihilation. This pitiable absence of self-awareness, a moral wariness necessarily entailing tol­eration of foreign perspectives, only leads to apathy. In illusory complacency sincere questioning stops and chaos pre­vails. 
Then beneath the exquisite varnish of the Golden Dome, ever so slowly, moral erosion performs its acid task. Paradoxically, in the name of Notre Dame perpetuated by its very family members. the true Spirit ingloriously expires. 
STEVE JURAS 
OfTCampus 
page 14 The Observer• WEEKEND Friday, October 27, 1995 

What is yourfavorite crayola


color? ·· 

"Silver." 
Megan Monahan Sophomore, Farley 
''Thistle." 
Anna Kosse Freshman, Lyons 


"Burnt Sienna:' 
Joe Byrne Junior, Dillon 

"Copper, red, silver ... " 
Rebecca Ovel Freshman, Lyons 

"Kelly Green." 
Brian Tracy Sophomore, Fisher 

"Magenta." 
Harry McCusker Freshman, Sorin 
The Forgotten Art of Coloring 

By JOEY CRAWFORD 
Assistant Accent Editor 
R
ed, yellow, black, green, purple, silver, turquoise, sky blue, magenta -enough colors to make even the most prominent psychedelic fans' heads spin. Sun yellow, fuch­sia, periwinkle, azure, mauve -these are the colors of youth. Sea green, cayenne, blue-green, green blue, violet. These colors, as well as a plethora of other exotic ones, make their home in the Crayola box of 64, equipped with its own sharpener. Crayons. Burgundy, midnight blue, copper, pimento-they represent the sights, the smells, and, yes, even the tastes of adolescence. The forgotten art of coloring is a crucial part of 
every child's life. For 

some, color­ing offers 
the first chance to 
explore their imagi­nation in a concrete fashion. 
Sadly, though, coloring is an art that 
is left behind when a child journeys into adult­hood. But the memories instilled by this favorite pastime will endure for eternity. 
Who can forget the first time their parents brought them home that big box of 64 Crayola crayons? Children distinctively remember the first time they opened that yellow and blue box of Crayolas. It is a memorable experience in any child's life. It almost becomes an archetype. The smell of wax soars through their tiny nostrils as what seems to be a thousand different colors dance in their head. It is a beautiful sight: 64 neatly sharpened crayons standing in line like tiny soldiers waiting to explode with a child's creative energy. Children throw themselves onto the living room floor and become completely en­tranced by the flurry of colors. Sesame Street or some other popular show might be on the televi­sion, but nothing can tear them away from their Crayolas and their coloring books. 
It takes a great deal of time to master the skill of coloring. Color schemes and staying within the lin~s are foreign concepts at first, but eventually children learn proper coloring etiquette. 
C~ild:en color with _raw and primitive fury. Thetr tmy tongues twtst and twtrl wilh con­centration. Coloring becomes a pseudo birth ritual; the formerly plain black and white cartoons of the coloring books come to life and seem to almost leap off the page with the addition of color. The hobby becomes like a drug; they just can not color enough. 
There comes a time when col­oring books no longer seem to quench their childish desires. They need more. They can not take everyone yelling at them to stay within the lines. Eventually, children jour­ney beyond the lines. They begin to draw pic­tures on blank sheets of paper with their Crayolas. Plain paper gives children the freedom to create any image they desire. They create ma~nificent scenes of fantasy worlds. They see thetr hopes and dreams come alive on the paper. 
The only thing that limits their imagination is the sp~ce provided by the small sheets of paper. The c~tldren's parents may keep buying bigger and btgger sheets of paper to satisfy the children's hunger, but nothing seems to suffice. 
Eventually, some children may journey way beyond the lines of normal coloring. They want something bigger and better. The want to escape from the confines of mere paper. Armed with their 64 Crayolas and adolescent dreams, no blank space is safe from their wrath. Nothing 
can contain their creative inspirations. They seek out the walls of their homes a n d schools to 
become their next great master piece. U~fortut,tately. ?fte_n times this is where young chtldren s creative JOurneys end. They are repri­manded by adult figures for coloring outside of normal lines. This abruptly ends their journey, although they will be haunted by their dreams of coloring throughout their entire life. When they become older, they will catch themselves writing on t~eir desk, coloring in their books, longing for the times of youth. 
Coloring is a beautiful thing. The hobby is a tremendous source of happiness and re­laxation. The novelty of seeing an ordi­nary black and white drawing become animated with color rarely wears thin. This novelty allows a person to feel Like a .kid ag.ain. It allows a person to become in tune with their creative side that may have been lost during the transformation to adulthood. On 
a more serious note, while coloring it is easy to become oblivious to the horrors of the adult world and return to innocence. The adventures of coloring also offers a fine road map to the journey of life: sometimes it is all right to cross ~he lines. Strawberry, silver, gold, orange, pruss­tan blue, gray .... 
'fhe lrclter·s of ljoaf vs. The University of Notre Dame • 
By SCOTT BAIER Accont Writor 
Are you up to the challenge, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's? The Archers of Loaf are coming to invade cam­pus this Friday, Oct. 27 to rock the Dome. Brought to you by co-sponsors WVFI and SUB, they'll be playing at the Loft (2nd floor LaFortune) with opening bands Capsize 7 and emiLy. It could be the best entertainment bargain this side of the Mississippi, especially when you consider that you'll be seeing the world's greatest rock n' roll band. Sorry, Jesus Lizard, Fugazi, and Aerosmith fans­these guys play the best live set on the planet. The Archers are the heirs to the vacated throne of the indie­roek, and they reign with all the majesty of Henry VIII. 
If you're not a subject to the realm of indie-rock and eollege music, fear not. The Archers are as accessible as they are original. This quartet from North Carolina is notorious for producing anthemic, poppy tunes that infect your senses and remain in your head for weeks on end. One only needs to listen to their first full-length album, Icky Meffie. in order to be humming for an eter­nity. Choe-full of short guitar-laden offerings, Icky Meffie boasts of such singles as "Web in Front," "Piumbline," 
• "Might," and "Wrong." top 35 lists. Vee Vee topped out at the #1 slot for a few 
Eric Baehmann, lead singer and guitarist for the band, weeks, and their air play is going to do nothing short of has a flair for writing absurd lyrics. The opening line to double in the next year. Justifiably so, for these kids sim­"Web in Front" reads, 'Stuck a pin in your ply know how to write great music and perform it to a baekbone/Smoked it down from there/All I ever wanted tee. But don't take my word for it. In reference to their was to be your spine. "Like much of the music out of latest offering, Vee Vee, released in March of 1995, North Carolina in the recent past (i.e. Polvo, Erectus Details magazine raved, "Every song boasts its own Monotone), the Archers' sound is defined by quirky gui­jagged melodic appeal." Spin called Vee Vee an tar riffs that are oftentimes distorted or full of feedback. "Alternative rock smorgasbord," and Rolling Stone made However, the two guitars (Bachmann and Eric Johnson) the claim, "When the Archers settle into full-out rocking, always mix well to come back to that Archers-patented they do so with satisfying savagery." I must say that I melodic feel. "Revenge," off of their five song EP The agree, and I think you will too if you accept the chal­Arehers of Loaf vs. the Greatest of All Time is a perfect lenge. example of this. But not to be discounted are the drums So the Archers of Loaf have gotten major attention, and bass, and they're not to be considered as an after­and are not merely restricted to the college rock circuit. thought. Since the guitars require so much of the ear­They have recently made a few in-roads to more main­drum's attention, it is conceivable that one could neglect stream attention and greater exposure. Last year, these the dynamics of Mark Price {drums) and Matt Gentling lads toured with Weezer for a spell, although they did (bass). But these guys do more than provide the baek­most of their work in the headlining role. They produced ground; they also "rock it out" with interesting, well­a video for "Harnessed in Slums" that appeared on written bits of their own. MTV's "120 Minutes" and have appeared on soundtracks 
Eric Bachmann's voice is quite unique. Although it for "My So-Called Life" and "Mallrats." There was even a sounds that he may have smoked a box of cigars every rumor that the Archers had an offer to sign with day for the last twenty years, it has a creamy, harmo­Maverick Records (in case you didn't know, that's nious quality that complements their sound perfectly. Madonna's label). However, they stayed on the San Matt Gentling is a spectacle on stage. The· self-pro­Diego-based Alias records, which boasts of a great line­claimed inventor of the bass-guard (&ctu;ly a plastic­up that includes Small, Picasso Trigger, and, at one time, rclnforted ·knaepad to protect his jointi:rod ·t.o ·ht!i~{adi• !Vo-La·Tengo. cal style of moving back and forth), he freer n'&y graces So, with all of this in mind, do you actually think that the crowd with sparkling gems of wit. · you stand a chance, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's? Why 
The popularity of this band grows constantly. They are don't you come to the LaFortune Ballroom on Friday at 9 perennial mainstays of the CMJ (College Music· Journal) p.m. to find out. 

,JIIIill) IN Sf)IJ'rii III~NI) 
By KRISTIN DOYLE of B.C.? Foremost in their decision The Princeton Review's overall qual­Accont Writor are the academic advantages that ity of life rating for Notre Dame was Notre Dame offers. Its academic pro­83 while B.C.'s trailed with a 75 
The rivalry between Notre Dame gram is rated at a whopping 91 which is partly due to the safety that and Boston College has grown while B.C. was given a rating of 78 Notre Dame's rural campus pro­increasingly heated in the wake of according to the Princeton Review's vides. B.C.'s two consecutive and decisive guide to the 286 best colleges. Notre A Breen-Phillips sophomore from victories over the Irish. Eagle fans Dame students surveyed found their the Boston area chose not to apply to relish the idea that the most leg­professors to be both more interest­Boston College like so many of her tmdary college football team in the ing and more accessible. Notre high school friends because of its nation was knocked ofT its pedestal Dame offers 72 majors while B.C. lower population of out-of-state stu­by the underdog. More importantly, offers 53. dents. "B.C. is more provincial; I though, it was Boston College, Computer technology is advancing really enjoy the geographic diversity another highly reputed, mostly Irish, at breakneck speed and Notre Dame here.'' Catholic school that wielded the is making a consistent effort to keep It is more than mere statistics and blow. This "holy war" extends far up. Every dorm room is currently campus features that places Notre beyond the walls of football stadi­being wired for internet access and Dame above Boston College in the ums. It actually represents B.C.'s four hundred and fifty four IBM and hearts of so many applicants. The struggle to topple the image of Notre Macintosh computers are available religious tone that pervades every Dame as the nation's premier at ten convenient locations around aspect of campus life is one draw. "I Catholic learning institution as well campus. Boston College provides think it was the emphasis on the as an athletic powerhouse. only two hundred microcomputers Catholic tradition that influenced me 
The similarities among the two and has no plans for dorm room most," commented one Cavanaugh schools have created an overlapping wiring. sophomore. Brigid McShane, a applicant pool. The undergraduate Applicants often choose the college sophomore from Lewis, referred to a population of Boston College hovers that will provide them with the "sense of belonging" that she felt around nine thousand, while Notre opportunity to land the best job pos­during her campus visit two years Dame's approaches eight thousand. sible after graduation. Notre Dame ago that caused her to turn down Both have relatively conservative surpasses B.C. in this area also. her B.C. acceptance. The almost and homogeneous campuses and First, the N.D. alumni network can mythic proportions of Notre Dame both student bodies are composed become a valuable job hunting re­lore and symbolism is a significant mostly of business majors. Claiming source. Notre Dame graduates love pull also. There is just no B.C. equiv­that it exhibits a unique character of to hire other Domers. Second, some alent to Touchdown Jesus, the Four its own, many B.C. administrators, 350 companies come all the way to Horsemen or the Golden Dome. students, and alumni shun the role South Bend from major cities around Students will continue to choose of B.C. as a safety school for the country to recruit while B.C. Notre Dame over Boston College as 
-
prospective Notre Dame students. hosts 311. long as it continues to progress with The Eagle's winning record over the Campus life is another important technology while holding religion Irish (2-1) has provided a notable consideration in choosing Notre and tradition foremost. An Irish win display of dominance and is a great Dame over Boston College. B.C.'s on Saturday will reaffirm Notre 
source of pride for B.C. as a Catholic 240 acres contain 88 buildings that Dame's athletic dominance as a 
-
college. are so close in proximity that the Catholic university and will intensify 
If Boston College and Notre Dame beauty of the campus pales in com­the healthy spirit of competition have so much in common, why have parison to the sprawling green between the two schools. The rivalry aecepted applicants consistently quads between the 99 buildings on will serve only to push both institu­matriculated at Notre Dame instead Notre Dame's 1250 acre campus. tions to new heights of excellence. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
page 16 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS Friday, October 27, 1995 

Mary Poppins where are you? We  NEEDED: B.C. tix, stu. or GA. Will  I need BC tix stud or GA!!  Hey Jen Weber! Happy Birthday!  
NOTICES  need a babysitter for Fri. from 10 to 6pm for 2 adorable kids. In so. end  NEED NAVY TIXI AMY 616-473-2636  trade Navy GA's + $. Molly3490  call meg x4544  
of So. Bend. Call Christy or Kevin at  I NEED BC GA's I STUD's  HEY, JENNIFER WEBER! GUESS  
Shop TALBOTSI this game week­ 291-7482.  I need tickets to BC and Navy.  I NEED B.C. GA's 273-5281  PAUL X3434 PLEASEIII  WHAT? IT'S YOUR BIRTHDAY,  
end+nw/mall on Cleveland+  References needed.  Please call Bryan at 272-4249  FRIEND, DRINKER. _II  
272.0058+mention this ad  Need 1 BC ticket. Call Joel at 3482.  #  
Graduated Student needs  Need BCtix  Calif. actress-writer wife & photog­ 
Bed & breakfast, BC game. near  2 GAs for parents for NAVY  4 Chicago Bulls Tix available  NEED 2 Navy GA'sl!  -Bryan x1919  rapher husband wish to adopt new­ 
UNO campus. 219-277-6832  game. Please call Brad at  for multiple games!!  call Martha at X4092  #  born. Will provide love, nurturing  
634-5118. Price negotiable.  Either cash or swap tor  environ., educ., financial security.  
Student Loans getting you down...  EXCELLENT ND Football Tixl!  Need 1 Navy Ticket tor bro  NEED TICKETS FOR THE  Hollywood Hills home has large  
Get Smart!  Tickets for MONET exhibit  Bulls Tix approx. 1 0 rows  PLEASE Call Tim 273-4389  BOSTON COLLEGE GAME. GA'S  back yard and loving dog. Call  
for Nov. 3 or Nov. 5. Please  off the floor.  AND STUDETS. CALL JOE AT  818/241-5535 collect. Legal &  
Legal Eagles are your financial  call Brad at 634-5118. Negotiable.  (708)357-6100  FOR SALE: 2 BC GAs. 273-9838.  X1846.  Confidential.  
wings clipped? Get Smart!  Ask for Mike Haggerty  
Future C.P.A. 'shaving trouble  FOR RENT  Need 2 BC Married Stud or GA Christi x4849  NEED TICKETS FOR BOSTON COLLEGE. CALL 4-1854.  TRAVEL FREE FOR SPRING BREAK '96  
managing your money? Get Smart!  I NEED BC TICKETS-STUDENT  Form a group of 15 and travel  
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR ND  OR GA!III PLEASE call Megan at  I NEED BC student tix or GA  The Fate of the Entire School  FREE + earn $$$  
Spring Break Bahamas Party  232-2595  x4268  call Ted x1856  Rests in Your Hands!! I If I don't get  CANCUN, SOUTH PADRE,  
Cruise! Early Specials! 7 Days  two tickets tor the BC game, there's  BAHAMAS, FLORIDA, CARNIVAL  
$27911ncludes 15 Meals & 6  THAT PRETTY PLACE. Bed and  Need BC & Navy tix. Stud/GA's.  Need ABC GA?  no telling what my father might do.  CRUISES. Food and Drinks includ­ 
Parties! Great Beaches/Nightlife!  Breakfast Inn has space available  282-1638.  Call Elizabeth at: 4-1263  Call Brian@ x1741  ed. (800)574-75n ext. 302  
Prices Increase 11/21 & 12/151  for football wknds. 5 rooms with pri­ 
Spring Break Travel1-800-678­ vate baths. Located in Middlebury,  Need two Navy Tickets  Have one BC ticket, best  *'*** 4 SALE -***  HEY ST. MARY's Please HELP!  
6386  30 miles from campus. 1-800-418­ Call Lara at x4416  offer.Connie 4-2667  1 BC Std. Tk1.  The NDCIBD is collecting USED  
9487  CALL4-4678  EYEGLASSES to send to  
Spring Break! Panama City! Early  NEED 4 NAVY GA's. Call Paul  NAVY GA's 4 Sale Call634-1534  Honduras. Oct. 29 12-3pm  
Specials! 8 Days Oceanview Room  ROOM IN QUIET, CLEAN HOME.  collect at (216) 974-7142.  St. Mary's Dining Hall  
With Kitchen $1291 Walk To Best  SAFE AREA. KITCHEN PRIV.  I NEED GA'S MEGAN X3890  Need two GA's and one student  
Bars! Key West $2591 Cocoa Beach  FEMALE ONLY. $200/MO.  I NEED 3 TICKETS FOR BC. FAM­ ticket tor the BC game,  Happy B-Day Jen Weber  
Hilton $1691 Prices Increase 11/21  282-2576.  ILY COMING ALL OF THE WAY  BC BC BC BC BC BC BC BC BC  or three GA's.  
& 12/15! 1-800-678-6386  FROM NJ.  I need BC GAs... call x3975  call Melinda x4967  Jen Weber is so cool !  
3 BEDROOM HOME 5 MINUTE  CALL DAWN x4990  BC BC BC BC BC BC BC BC BC  
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break  WALK TO NO GOOD AREA 277­ Jen Weber rocks NO's world!  
Specials! 111% Lowest Price  3097  NEED 2 BC GA's  Wanted: Tickets to BC and Navy.  
Guarantee! 7 Nights Air From South  Kevin @ 273-8709  HELP! HELP! HELP! HELP!  Please call Rachel634-1675.  Gel-man. Farmer, Narcoleptic  
Bend & Hotel From $4191 Book  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE  
Early! Save $100 On Food/Drinks!  HOME FOR ND-SMC EVENTS.  NEED TWO G.A.'S FOR B.C.  I NEED USC AND BC TIX  koo-koo-ka-choo  
Spring Break Travel 1-800-678­ VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. CALL  call Scott x0652  as many as possible,  I NEED 2 NAVY TICKETS!!  
6386  272-6194 AM OR 232-9620 PM  students or GAs  Call JILL x2272  Top 10 Quotes from the Geo Trip  
& ASK FOR SANDY.  We need 2 BC GAs. Please call  please call NORM @ 232-2955  10. A man is dead.Why?  
"Get thee to a m.nnery... "  collect 616-496-4595. Thanks!  I need one Navy GA for Mom.  9. So much for an early night.  
or to the National Shakespeare  Luxurious Knollwood Park Villa For  Thanks for your Support!  Please help. Call Alex -1969  8. Gao-Insanity!  
Company's production of HAM­ Rent or Sale, 51221 Oak Hill Ct.  Badly Needed: 2 BC GA's  7. Shutup Jarvis  
LET-Nov. 3. 8pm  Open House Sunday 2 till 4  Please Call Matt at 4-1213  NEED 2 NAVY GA'sl Please call  6. I'm not Spider man...  
Washington Hall. Sponsored by  Marzena Walicka 271-1474 or 235­ Brigid x3764  5. We need more potatoes!  
SUB. tix @ LaFun Info. Desk  3018 Shappee Reality 271-2004  Will trade 2 Navy GA's tor 2 BC  Selling your BC ticket??  4. It squirted all over the walls!  
GA's Sean x1109  Call Kelly@ 277-9695  Desperately seeking Phish  3. White Boys smell like bologna  
jtoST&FOUNDj  Need 1 roommate now & 1 more nex1 sem. $195 Turtle Creek 273­ SALE BC STUD TIX  TIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIX  tickets tor the Halloween show in Chicago. Willing to pay $$$1  2. Boy, this outcrop really turns me on!  
2366  271-8154  Call Tim -3363  1. Highway 312, #612  
BIG REWARD for info. leading to  needed: 1 BC ticket (stu or GA)  
,.  the return of bike "taken" Oct. 2 behind Cav. hall: sky blue, schwinn  ACCOM. AVAIL. FOR BC & NAVY GAMES. CALL 277-8340.  FOR SALE 4GA-50 YARD LINE TIX  call dan at 273-6183 if you can help  2 BC GA's FOR SALE!! Call Sean @3664 and leave  Hey Chandler-Monica broke my  
10 spd., 70's model, big sentimen­ FOR BCGAME  out. thanx.  best otter!  sea shell lamp...  
tal value -call 4-3504  BED & BREAKFAST  Neat. I'm gonna die alone!! I  
Lovely bdrm tor 2 w/private bath.  CALL 271-8154 OR  TIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIX  NEED 2 GA'S FOR NAVY!!!  
....... LOST ****  For ND/SMC parents & friends .  (312) 929-7020  CALL CHRIS X-1953  
SMALL GOLD HOOP  Navy weekend. 277-6323.  Desperately seeking 3 NAVY GAs.  
EARRING CALL3709  I FORSALE  NEEDED: 2 NAVY GA'S; 1 BC STUD; CALL MICHAEL AT 273­4389 .  Will pay BIG BUCKS. Call Ryan x0566.  I HAVE 2 NAVY GA'S call4144 w/best otter by lues.  ATTENSION SMC Sophomores­Want a Dance next semester? Come to Haggar Parlor  
WANTED I ._____________J  ~~-~~~~~~~-~=~~!~.~:_._._._._  Need 1 BC ticket Call Scott, x4479  FOR SALE N.D. GAs call271-9412  NEED 1 NAVY TIC. CALL X3832 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $  Monday, Oct. 30, 9:30-10:30pm for an open forum.  
* * * FREE TRIPS & CASH * * *  Really cool and only $101  I need B.C. tix!!l Either GA or stu­ * * SMC Sophomores • • •  
Find out how hundreds of students  Call Potter @ 232-2955 today!!!  IN DIRE NEED:  dent tix will dol Call Tim at 634­ Need  
are already earning FREE TRIPS  Great tor you, your roomie, or  of 2 BC std tix (or GAs)  1148 GO IRISH!  BC &  Random Classifieds  
and LOTS OF CASH with  Christmas presents!  Bob/Billy 273-4212  NAVY  Come on Eileen. We're going  
America's #1 Spring Break compa­ I NEED USC, BC & NAVY  TIXs ! ! !  undefeated this weekend. I don't  
ny! Sell only 15 trips and travel free!  ALPINE CAR CD PLAYER  GA'S.272-6306  call x1755 (Craig)  know though. You might be too old  
Choose Cancun. Bahamas,  NEW $550 SELL $250  I NEED BC GA'S BADLY  for that place.  
Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL NOW!  CALL BRENT 273-6183  CALL MIKE AT 273-1718  Willing to trade BC GA for BC  $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $  Ma, there's some good markdowns  
TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAV­ student GA. Call Matt @  at the bookstore.  
EL (800)95-BREAK!  EXPECTING? Beautiful, classic,  273-9650  I NEED NAVY Tickets badly.  Chmura who?  
white crib and changing table for  Need BC Tix-Jeff 1828  Both GA's and Student...  I think it's time to unveil the arm  
MAID by Clay Hi $8-10/hr once/wk  sale. Includes mattress, sheets,  I need two BC student tix  Please leave a message  dance.  
spotless honest 2n.7263  bumper pad, and ruff. Two years  I need two GA's for BC,  $30 each, Potter @ 232-2955  on my machine ....  Chowdah, chowdah, lobstah, lob­ 
old and in excellent condition.  call Carrie at 312-404-5590.  287-8696  stah.  
TRAVEL ABROAD AND WORK­ $250. Call 631-6479.  1\leed Navy GAs.  -Bryan  I'm coming out of the booooth.  
Make up to $25-45/hr. teaching  Desparate alum needs 2 stud. tix  Call Kevin @273-2938  I heard Greg Landry's a pretty  
basic conversational English in  Elect guitar perfect cond $225 obo  for BC, call Tom at 312-528-1482.  bright kid. What ever happened to  
Japan, Taiwan, or S. Korea. No  amp free 273-5380  Need BC stud and GA tix  him?  
teaching background or Asian lan­guages required. For information  For Sale: 1 BC stud tix 1 Navy GA call chris 287-8648  Eric 233-4435  PERSONAL  Hey, St. Chris, what's up. How've you been.  
call: (206)632-1146 ext. J55841  88 Toyota Tercel, exl con, 68k,  Need 4 B.C. GA's or stud tix  Public transportation is my friend.  
AIC, $3500. 277-3503.  2 STUDS AND 1 GA NEEDED  Call Brian x3467  The T rocks.  
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT­ FOR FAMILY UP FOR BC GAME!!!  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  Dahts rule.  
Students Needed! Fishing Industry.  PLEASE CALL SIMON 273-4674  NEED B.C. TICKETS!!!!  LaFortune Student Center  Funky Ceili  
Earn up to $3,000-$6.000+ per  MACINTOSH COMPUTER for sale.  call Chris at 273-4674  We're open for your convenience!!!  Jock Jams.  
month. Room and Board!  Complete system including printer  NEED 2 NAVY GA'S  Mon-Thur: 7:30am -Midnight  Jock Jams II.  
Transporation! Male or Female. No  only $499. Call Chris at 1-800-665­ Brian @ X4245  Wanted: 4 Football Tickets for  Fri.: 7:30am-7:00pm  Norby, you'll never catch me.  
- experience necessary. Call  4392 ext. 9537  Boston College Game. Call Collect  Sat.: Noon -6:00pm  
(206)545-4155 extA55842  I have 3 student tickets to BC!!  913-233-5826  Sun.: Noon -Midnight  
Roomate needed for 2nd sem.  SENIOR IS GRADUATING  Call Sean @3664 and leave best offer!  LOOKING FOR BC GAs. CALL  (closed home football Saturdays)  The Legends do it again!  
Male Grad. stu. pre!. Nice 2br apt. near campus $280/mo. 277-3107  For Sale: Furniture & Appliances Call: 271-8262 Pedro  Have 2 BC std tx for sale #3959  RACHEL @ X2781.  0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0 QUALITY COPIES, QUICKLY!l!  GHOSTSI!GHOSTS!!GHOSTS!!  
THE COPY SHOP  Notre DAme Student Players is  
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­Seasonal & full-time employment  TICKETS  I NEED GA'S FOR NAVY. PLEASE CALL MEGAN X2638.  HELP I Desperately seeking 2 GA's lor Navy. Call Sarah @ 273-6875.  LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY  sponsoring ghost stories from 11 :00-12:30 on Halloween night.  
available at National Parks, Forests  0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0  Washington Hall is the place.  
& Wildlife Preserves. Benefits + bonuses! Call: 1-206-545-4804 ext. N55842  A DEVOTED IRISH FAN NEEDS GA'S TO ANY/ALL HOME/AWAY GAMES. 219-232-0061,24 HAS.  Let's Deal! I need two tickets lor the Navy game, GAs prel!3rably. Call Jen at x4965.  Need 1 Stud Navy Ticket Call Patty@ 4015 I need 2 GA's and 2 stud tix  Josie, After we CRUSH BC, the first pint of Guiness is on me! LET'S GO  Come lind out about ghosts in that building, and others too. Admission $1.00 Scare you there.  
Need 2 BC GA /Stud., will pay $80  for Navy call X1103  IRISH!  GHOSTS!!GHOSTS!!GHOSTS!I  
HELP WANTED addressing envelopes. Work at your residence in your spare time. $250+/week possible! (31 0)804-5587 24 hrs.  TICKET-MART, INC. WANTED, GA'S FOR ANY/ALL  a pair. Please call Brian @ 3322 Need 2 BC GA/stud., will pay up to $80 a pair. Please call Brian 3322  ask for Dave H I need tix tor BC! student or GA call Beth x27 45  Love, Jack Tomorrow is Jen Weber's B-Day  Vooml? Matey, that parrot wouldn't voom if you put 4 million volts through him.  
- $35,000/YR. INCOME potential. Reading books. Toll Free 800-898­9778 Ext. R-2013 for details.  HOME/AWAY ND GAMES. BUY*SELL*TRADE (219) 232-0058-24 HAS.  NEED TICKETS FOR BOSTON COLLEGE. CALL JOE AT 1610.  I NEED BC GA'S CALL KEVIN @ 234-2952  Wish Jen Happy B-Day at X-4805 Absolut Weber  Kiddo, The Amigos are on the way to Bean Town, look out!! And have  
I NEED TIXS TO ALL HOME  1 B.C. Student Ticket Needed  NEED: BC Tix-Student or GA  Love Ya, The Gamblers!  you seen John lately, we should of  
$40.000/YR. INCOME potential. Home typists/PC users. Toll Free  GAMES.272-6306  Call Jeff at 277-3469 and leave a message.  call Matt 273-9650  Buy Jen a Honey Brown  asked him to sit down. -An lllinios Farmer  
800-898-9778 Ext. T-2013 tor list­ Me nEad TiKits  Two BC tickets. Call x3247.  
ings. need roomate 4 2ndsem.call 273­4569monique Babysitter -ECDC student pref­ 2 Navy Call Sean x2153 I NEED BC & USC GA'S CALL 288-2877  NEED STUDENT TIX FOR BCI!II CALL ALEX@ 3504 I will trade 2 Navy GA's tor 2BCGA's I will also buy any add'l BC GA's  NEED TWO BC TIX. PLEASE CALL KEVIN AT x21041F YOU HAVE ANY AVAILABLE. Need 1 NAVY STor GA  NOT GOING TO NAVY? Well, the American Cancer Society needs you to donate your ticket for the Pediatric Cancer Patients of Memorial Hospital. Please drop off your ticket book by Tues. (1 0/31) at  Nelanie, Well, Carrie isn't here so you are the cutest! I missed you lots, as did the rest of us, good to have you back!! -Your ol' pal David  
ered. $5.00 per hour. About 6-8 hr.  I'M DESPERATE for your BC GA's  you have.  Please calli  the CSC. Any questions? Call  
per week. Call Lea 272-5029.  Please call ALISA 271-8346  X4070, ask for Norm!  Melissa 1255  Nicole@ 4-1318.  

see CLASS I page 17 
-----~---------­
•NHL
Class 
continued from page 16 
Lemieux's SOOth goal downs Isles 
resolution for this week: she will sleep in. 
any bets as to how long? Associated Press score close, until Lemieux's his­FleetCenter with a win and a tie toric goal. before embarking on a five­
Happy 21st birthday Christina and Erin! 
Mario Lemieux's hat trick The Penguins gained their game (1-3-1) road trip while gave him 500 career NHL goals first road win of the season in the circus took over the arena.
mcgrath...we party well together. but no more till you g1ve me that last $1 . I mean as the Pittsburgh Penguins ral­four games, while the Islanders But the comforts of home didn't 
11. nannery lied to beat the New York Is­lost for the sixth time in eight seem to solve any problems. 
landers 7-5 Thursday night. games. Blaine Lacher had 17 saves Lemieux became the 20th Francis put the Penguins for Boston, which outshot 
REASONS TO GO TO TEXAS.. 
player to reach the 500 plateau ahead 1-0 at 4:57 of the first. Washington 33-21 but went at 17:12 of the third period on a Jagr fired a slap shot from the eight minutes without one late
-to stop at lmo's for cheese whiz pizza 
and Shnucks on the 200 hr. drive down low right circle wrist shot that left circle off the left post, and in the third. The Bruins were -to be drunk. but sober... l mean FEEL II heat a screened Tommy the rebound bounced right to scoreless in live power play op­-to experience Red Ass Ale and the 
Soderstrom. It was also the Francis, who put the puck in portunities; Washington was 1­
tequila of Magg1e Mae's, that is if you can 
32nd three-goal game for the wide-open net. for-4.
lick it of the tree behind Billy 
Lemieux, who became the sec­Lemieux, who sat out last Sat­Boston's Kyle McLaren scored 
-one word... Euchre. Pznasl Hzneartsll call Clovers. & put your cards DOWN ond-fastest player behind urday's loss to Los Angeles with his first NHL goal 27 seconds -to hear the various "stomach drums" Waynn Grctzky in league his­back spasms, fired a 50-foot into the game when he dumped while relaxmg on a $20,000 green. 
tory to reach the 500-goal shot from the right point it in from the red line. As Carey 
-to pay $1 0 to hear a bonng song about a 
mark. between Soderstrom's pads at shifted over to field it on one 
dumb cal 
Lemieux, in his 11th season 18:04 on a power play. bounce, the puck took a bad 
-to learn that Dave cares but has never 
touched his girlfriend Candy. in the league, reached the mile­New York defenseman Math­hop and floated past him. -to get to know John the Stopper ...if you stone in 605 games. His 500 ieu Schneider, who suffered It was 2-0 three minutes later can catch him awake goals tied him for 19th place on bruised ribs during Wednesday when Ted Donato and Steve 
-because you never know when you'll 
the all-time list with Lanny night's loss in Philadelphia, ag­Leach worked a give-and-go
need a second a--hole hom crashing on 
McDonald. gravated the injury, and sat out before Donato put it past Carey.
jet SkiS. -ro remove the unwanted parts from your Tomas Sandstrom added two the last two periods. Donato has a point in live con­car. you really don't need that heat shield goals and Ron Francis and secutive games. for pratries .. Jaromir Jagr also scored for Forty-three seconds later, -steamroller on the volleyball courts 
Pittsburgh. Capitals 4, Bruins 2 Witt fed Jones in front of the 
-to learn that she'd even be amused at a 
Zigmund Palffy had two goals net to pull the Capitals within
cock fight. excuse me? i mean chick­
ens!... brownie anyone? for New York, while Alexander Jim Carey made 31 saves and one. Pat Peake tied it with 5:59 -does ANYONE have Busch in bottles? Semak, Travis Green and Keith Jones had three assists on left in the period. -to have jalapeno eating contests at Taco Wendel Clark had one goal Thursday night to give the With 3:48 left in the second, Cabana-or was it a Iossing contest? apiece. the Capitals used some confu­
Washington Capitals a 4-2 vic­
-to cruise through Beverage Barn 
With the score tied at 4-4, tory over Boston and send the sion in front of the net to their 
-to learn that it's a really good thing that 
Sandstrom gave Pittsburgh the Bruins to their first loss in their advantage and Juneau fed it
those socks are disposable -regular? ... unleaded... regular? ...unleaded lead for good at 10:36. Lemieux new home. across the slot to Witt for the won a draw in the left circle, Jones combined with Sylvain game-winner. Konowalchuk Kelly. pulling the puck to Sandstrom Cote and Brendan Witt on two slammed home his own re­Whoops, sorry Kiddo, I slipped. 
in the slot. Sandstrom's one­goals to stop Washington's two­bound to give Washington a 4-2 
David 
timer beat Soderstrom low to game losing streak. Witt scored lead. Happy 21st Scotti I Ill the glove side. The play took his first NHL goal with 3:48 left two seconds. in the second period to break a Aren't you a little short for a stormtrooper. .Jagr's game-winner came at 2-2 tie and Steve Konowalchuk Rangers 4, Lightning 4 
12:03 on a backhander from made it 4-2 with his first of the 
CLEAN UP YOUR MESS 
the low slot with the Penguins season 40 seconds into the Mark Messier scored with 53 
Hey Abel, good to have you herel on a power play. Clark netted a third. seconds remaining in regula­Your Bro rebound at 14:47 to make the Boston opened the season at tion to give the New York 
Watch for Irish Extra in Monday's Observer. 
Rangers a 4-4 tie with the Tampa Bay Lightning Thursday night. 
Messier fought off defense­man Roman Hamrlik to score off an assist from Adam Graves and complete a two-goal come­back in the final nine minutes. Graves fed Messier in front af­ter Tampa Bay defenseman Bill Houlder failed to clear the puck from behind the Lightning net. 
Messier pulled New York within 4-3 at 11 :03 of the third with his third goal of the season on a wrist shot. 39 seconds af­ter Alexander Selivanov had given Tampa Bay a two-goal lead. 
Left wing Brian Bellows scored his first two goals of the season and Selivanov also scored twice for Tampa Bay. 
Rangers goaltender Glenn Healy, who was 3-0 and had surrendered only four goals on the season, faced 32 shots. Healy was sharp early, stopping John Cullen and Brian Bradley on excellent chances in the first live minutes. 
Lightning goaltender Daren Puppa stopped 42 shots. 
Bellows, acquired in an off­season trade with the Montreal Canadiens, scored twice on the power play for the Lightning. Bellows wristed a shot under Healy at 9:45 of the first, and he split defenders Kevin Lowe and Alexander Karpovtsev be­fore beating Healy high to the glove side at 5:26 of the second. 
The goal gave the 14-year NHL veteran. who has two goals and an assist in eight games this season, his 900th career point. 
Joey Kocur scored the Rangers' first goal at at 13:22 of the second, banking a shot off the goaltender's pad from a difficult angle. The Hangers pulled within 3-2 on another unlikely goal at 6:23 of the third, with Brian Leetch collect­ing his third of the season when his pass through the crease was swatted into the net by Lightning defenseman Eric Charron. 
1.1 ,\ ,\ ,\ ,\' EXQUISITE, EXPLOSIVE, EXTRAORDINARY. 
...Afirestorm of unleashed passion" 
.. 1\·l<•r'>l..:k. S.A:<; FRA'•KISCO U IKO'\IUL 

"EROTIC AND BEAUTIFUL:' 
H~nl'l' C•l•<•i lk'<J... !Vrri<\"ll'\\ \f ·\t.,\/1'\J 
-
"AN EPIC 

ROMANCE:' 
lk l'in,.f.; \ \'tl GA'l; \:l:,l' II\.\' 
REL) fiRECRACKER. 
GREEN 
fiRECRACKER 
CX"It)bU\
-It'.-,.­
FRIDAY 10/27 and SATURDAY 10/28 
7:30 and 9:45 PM 
World Wide Web<http://www.nd.edu/-cothweb/wwwsnite.html> 

-
-
welcome to the 
BIG EAST 
Irish Hoop Fans! 
College Basketball Fantasy Leagues Big East, Big Ten, & More... 
• 
Realistic Head to Head Format 

• 
Start a league With Your Friends 


• Ask About Student Discounts 
For Free Info: 1-800-511-7300 
Pn»• Box Statistical Syslemo. Inc. 

We care. From the day you 
move in, ourfriendly, profes­
sional staff will give you great 
service. Great location, great 
service, great price... Hickory 
Village has what you need. Come by and see for yourself! 
Efficiencies from $290 1-Bedrooms from $305 2-Bedrooms from $375 
24-hour Emergency Maintenance SeiVice Attentive Staff • Cable TV Available Free Aerobics Classes Laundry Room in Every Building Acres of Rolling Lawns and Trees Pool, Sundeck &Clubhouse Close to Great Shopping Air Conditioning 
Call or stop by today and v.~!'ll show you how great living at Hickory Village can be. 
272-1880 


rHlCKORij 

Mon.-Fri. 8·6, Sat. 10·4 & Sun. 12-4 

Senior Bill Lanza scored his first goal since returning to the lineup in Thursdays shutout of Western Michigan. 
The Observer • SPORTS 
Men 
continued from page 28 
Following Capasso's goal. the Irish rode the Broncos into the ground, outshooting Western Michigan 15-5 in the half. Notre Dame made it 2-0 when Bill Lanza tallied his sixth goal of the season on a brilliant header off a hard cross from Bill Savarino. Lanza's goal was his first since his return from a groin injury he suffered on September 15, and gives the senior 20 points in just 11 games this year. 
The Irish continued their dominating play in the second half, and Konstantin Koloskov pushed the lead to 3-0 when his one-timer off a Ben Bocklage cross beat outmanned Bronco goalie Kevin Kline at the 51:53 mark of the match. 
A Bronco own-goal off a fra­cas in front of the net closed out the scoring at 59:59, and the Irish goalkeeping tandem of Gerick Short and Pat Polking secured the shutout of the Broncos. Freshman Short was very effective in his first colle­giate start, making five saves 


EXECUTIVE SUITE 
JONES NEW YORK 
Visit our Michigan City, Indiana store to find everything you'11 need for upcoming job interviews: 
• 
Suiting for men and women 

• 
Jones New York Shirts & Ties 

• 
Accessories 


~-----------------------------------------------------------, 
L_____________________________________.... 
In addition, present this ad  l  
at time of purchase & receive...  
$10.00 OFF purchase of $100 to $200  
$20.00 OFF purchase over $200  
Not valid on sale items, accessories  
1  or in conjunction with other offers.  
I I  Exprres12/31/95  I•  

707 Lighthouse Place • (219) 879-4789 
~ 
~ 
Specializing in Prime Rib & Seafood 
•Serving Lunch & Dinner 
•Open Sundays at 4:00pm 
•Overlooking the River 
•Near the New College Football Hall of Fame 
•Corner of Jefferson & Niles downtown South Bend 
John Bowman, General Manager 
Class of 1977 234-9000 
Call for Reseruations 
Friday, October 27, 1995 
on the night. Polking secured the shutout with two saves in the waning minutes of the sec­ond half. 
The win may prove crucial for the Irish, who are attempting to salvage what has been in many ways a disappointing season. An away game against Big East rival Connecticut on Sunday will determine the future of this young team, who are struggling to make the Big East tourna­ment. 
"This win is important for us," said Capasso. "It gives us some momentum going into the game against Connecticut. The past couple of weeks, we haven't had much to build on, and I think that changed tonight." 
"We played well tonight, and the goals that we scored showed some intensity and con­fidence," commented Berticelli. "The game on Sunday against Connecticut is obviously an important game for us. If we're going to get into the conference tournament, we have to win that game." 

Now Available at the Notre Dame Bookstore 





9)oc.cpje,~'$ 
Restaurant 
The Place For Steaks for 19 Years 
•Serving Lunch & Dinner 
•Closed Sundays & Holidays 
•Only 15 minutes from the Stadium 
•Eddy Street South to Lincolnway East, US 33 
Exit toward Mishawaka. 1/2 Block North on Main Street in Downtown Mishawaka 
T.J. Laughlin, General Manager 
Class of 1973 255-7737 
Call for Reseruations 
Friday, October 27, 1995 

page 19 



Your No-,-R.e DAMe 
sport-swear & accessories! 
IRISH 
EXPREss HOURs
. 
........._ 
·~ 
(219)631-8128 



Friday 
12-9 pm


Saturday 
Bam -9 pm


Sunday 
9am -3pm· 
-
VVe Accept the Oisco~er Card "isa and Master Card ' 

page 20 
The Observer • SPORTS 
• Wmu.o SERIES 
Hershiser, Indians, avoid elimination 
By BEN WALKER 
Associated Press 
CLEVElAND 
This could be the start to the 
ultimate comeback. 
Orel Hershiser and the Cleveland Indians, just one game away from losing the World Series, beat Greg Mad­dux and the Atlanta Braves 5-4 Thursday night, cutting their deficit to 3-2. 
Albert Belle's two-run homer in the first inning -plus a brushback to Eddie Murray that led to a rare. bench-clearing incident in the Series -en­ergized Cleveland early. 
The Indians, who made a habit of rousing rallies all year. went on to beat the best pitcher in baseball, sending the Series back to Atlanta. Maddux stopped Cleveland on two hits in the opener, but Hershiser outpitched the three-time Cy Young winner this time, allow­ing five hits and two runs in eight innings. 
The Braves still have two more chances to win their first title since moving to Atlanta. Game 6 will be Saturday night, with Dennis Martinez starting for the Indians against Game 2 winner Tom Glavine. 
Hershiser, who walked one and struck out six, is 8-1 life­time in postseason, four wins coming this year. 
Jim Thome, who singled in the go-ahead run in the sixth, hit a solo homer in the eighth for a 5-2 lead. Ryan Klesko homered for the third straight 

day -a two-run shot off Jose Mesa with two outs in the ninth. Mesa earned the save by striking out Mark Lemke ending the fourth one-run game of the Series. 
Maddux set a major-league record this season by winning 18 straight decisions on the road. 
Maddux, signed by the Braves last year to help bring them the championship they've chased without success, clearly was not as sharp from the start. 
He walked the second batter of the game. Omar Vizquel, af­ter walking no one in the open­er. With two outs, Belle home­red into the Atlanta bullpen in right field for the second straight day. 
That brought up Murray and on an 0-1 pitch, Maddux, known for having the best con­trol in the majors, knocked him back with a high-and-tight fast­ball. 
Murray took a couple of steps out toward Maddux and pointed at him as plate umpire Frank Pulli got between them. Both benches and bullpens then emptied, though no punches were thrown. 
Such incidents hardly ever happen in the Series. There was a much-publicized incident involving Ducky Medwick of the St. Louis Cardinals and Detroit third baseman Marvin Owen in 1934, and Joe DiMaggio of the Yankees nearly got into a fight with Brooklyn pitcher Whit Wyatt in 1941. 
Thome and Manny Ramirez. both struggling in the Series. put Cleveland ahead 4-2 with consective RBI singles with two outs in the sixth for a 4-2 lead. 
Luis Polonia hit Hershiser's first pitch of the fourth for a rare home run, and the Braves tied it at 2 with a run in the fifth, missing a big chance to score more. 
Polonia's homer was his first since the Braves got him on Aug. 11 from the New York Yankees, who needed to make room for Darryl Strawberry. Polonia, playing left field while Klesko was the DH, had hit two home runs this season for New York and 17 in his nine-year career. 
Hershiser, usually a picture of calm, became a bit ruffled in the fifth. 
Klesko led off with a single and Lemke followed with a slow bouncer to the left of the mound. Hershiser charged in to grab it, but rushed a throw that pulled shortstop Vizquel off sec­ond base, leaving both runners safe. 
Charlie O'Brien sacrificed and Braves manager Bobby Cox made the first move from the dugout, pulling No. 9 hitter Rafael Belliard -0-for-12 in the Series -and sending up pinch-hitter Dwight Smith. 
Indians manager Mike Har­grove countered with an inten­tional walk, loading the bases for speedy leadoff man Marquis Grissom. On the first pitch, Grissom hit a two-hopper to the right of the mound that Her­shiser tried to field with his bare hand but dropped. 
Grissom was credited with a single, his 24th hit in the post­season, tying the single-season record set by Boston's Marty Barrett in 1986. It also gave Grissom a 12-game hitting streak in the postseason; the record is 17 by Hank Bauer of the Yankees in the 1956-58 World Series. 
Bases loaded, one out, score tied 2-2 and Polonia up. Big trouble for the Indians. That is, until Hershiser used one of his favorite sinkers to induce the quick Polonia to ground into his first double play since joining the Braves. 

N ofre DameA_........ ' ClericaVSecrefarial Staff would like to offer their sincere and heartfelt gratitude to THE GENDER STUDIES PROGRAM for providing a forum fo~ discussion and bringing the issue of inequitable clerical/ secretarial staff salaries to the forefront of University attention. Also, we wish to extend an enthusiastic thank you to THE OBSERVER THEVVOMENSRESOURCECENTER THEFACULTY§ENATE F ACULTY7 §TUDENTS7 AND ADMOOSTRATORS who are supporting our efforts.  


Friday, October 27, 1995 

The Observer/ Rob Finch 
Goaltender Matt Eisler will have to be sharp if the Irish hope to defeat Boston College Friday evening. 
MINORITY CAREER 
FORUM 
PARTIAL LIST OF
EMPLOYERS 
1\llflf'r\rll ( um.uhmR Artlun A11<Jt•r!.t'll 
Ro.ud of Covt•rnors of tlw I Pdrr.ll H:t•WI"'t' Syt.ll'fll 
Ro\tOI\ Col\sultmp. Gmup 
CNA lnsuro1nc,. Comp.um~s 
Comp.1q Compulf'r Corporat•on frm.t A Young LLP F1drhty lnvPSIIllPiltS flond.J Power ft. l1ght Company 
GPnerJI Moton Delphi-S.:Jgm.Jw 
Stt-ermg Systrms, GMC 
M.:wor Care, Inc MPrcer M.JnJgement Consulting 
Pnce W.1terhouse llP Pnnnpal rmanoJI Group PrudentiJI!nsurolnce Pruden11o1l Secunttes RR Donnelley & Som S£0 U S Maruw Corps. 
U.S NJvy IJ S SPcrPI SI"NICe 
PLUS MANY MORE!!! 


iH~III 
January 26 
?It~ 
The Fairmont Hotel Oticago, IL 
TO REGISTER, send or fax your resume with 3 industry preferences on the back to: 
Crimson & Brown Ail"oaates, Inc 201 Broadway Cambridge. MA 02139 
(617) 868-0181 P,hone (611) 868-0187 fax 
REGISTRATION DEADLINE: November 29 
Meet and Interview with leading employers! 
free transportation 
and admission for all minority Juniors and Seniors! 
Friday 
The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
• HOCKEY 
Fallen Eagles to visit Friday 
By MIKE DAY Spons Wri1er 
There's a funny thing about rivalries. 
No matter what the records are and who has the better tal­ent on paper, the game always seems to go down to the wire. That should prove to be the case once again when the 1-3 Notre Dame hockey team takes on rival Boston College tonight at the Joyce Center. 
"It will be a hard fought game where we will have to be at our best to win," said senior cap­tain Brett Bruininks. "We will have to cut down on our mis­takes and take advantage of theirs to come away with the victory." 
At one time, the Eagle hockey team was a force to be reck­oned with in the NCAA. However, in recent 'years, their play has fallen sharply, and the Boston College program is now just a shadow of its former self. 
After finishing a dismal 11­22-2 last season, Boston College enters tonight's contest with an 0-2 mark. Head coach Jerry York returns for his sec­ond season at the helm after dominating the CCHA with Bowling Green for 15 years. 
At the offensive end, Boston College is led by senior for­wards David Hymovitz (40 points last season) and Don Chase (19 goals, 12 assists). Ryan Mittleman and Marty Reasoner also provide punch on the front line for the Eagles. 
"We must stress defense to beat them, and we can't afford to have any breakdowns in the game," said senior defenseman Garry Gruber. "If we have good team work and get good goaltending, then our offense will take over and we'll win the 
OCTOBER 30th 
8:00 GHOSTBUSTERS 
10:00 LOST BOYS 

12:00 THE EXORCIST 
Popcom, Soda, Cookies, Goodie Bags ABSOLUTELY FREE 
La Fortune Ballroom 
game." 
Gruber, who leads the Irish defense with one goal so far this year, will be joined by the talented core of Ben Nelsen, Jeremy Coe, Bryan Welch, Da­vide Dal Grande, and goal­tender Matt Eisler. The unit was considered the strength of the team last season, so they will be expected to improve after giving up thirteen goals in the final two games against Alaska Fairbanks last weekend. 
"To beat them, we will have to do a better job of controlling the puck in crucial situations," said Brian McCarthy. "On the other side, we will have to capi­talize on their mistakes to avoid what happened in the last game." 
On the other side of the coin, the Irish offense has been a pleasant surprise so far in the early stages of the season. After being held to just one goal in the opener against Guelph, Notre Dame exploded for 15 goals in the three game series against the Nanooks. 
"It is important that we play a complete, 60 minute game of hockey against them," said Bruininks. "After last week­end, we know that we cannot afford to have any letdowns on either end of the ice." 
Senior center Jamie Ling, one of 30 finalists for the 1996 Hobey Baker Memorial Award, has been stellar so far this sea­son. After leading the Irish in scoring last season, he is back at it again, leading the team in goals (five} and overall points (seven). 
In just the second game of his Irish career, freshman right wing Brian Urick tallied four goals in last Thursday's 7-4 vic­tory over Fairbanks. Fellow 



GREAT 


Voted # 1 Oriental Restaurant 1991, 1992 and 19931 Szechuan • Cantonese • American Chinese Restaurant &Lounge Open 7 Days 
~-.. Sunday Bufftl Brunch~ Evrry Sunday S8.9S for Adullo 53.95 for C..1tlldren under 10 
(219l272~737b 130 DWew•y S. !US 3lln Qo,.l.ndl •I Rontbll"s Inn. Soulh Bend. IN 
NORTH 
VILLAGE A_LANDING 
FRIDAY EVENING 
4:30 pm-8:00 pm 
8:00 pm-11:OOpm Music & Dancing! 
THE GRAND BUFFET 
•Over 20 Entrees 
•
Hot Vegetables 

•Ne~ 
Polish Items Added 

•
Array of mouthwatering dessertS 


Music & Dancing put on by Ned Swanson of ProShow 
NO COVER CHARGE! 


SUNDAY MORNING 
10:00 am -2:00 pm 
PRIME RIB BRUNCH 
•Prime 
Rib 

•Peel-n-Eat 
Shrimp 

•All 
breakfast items 

•
Array of mouthwatering dessertS 


Located at the North Village Mali 52565 U.S. 31/33 North ; South Bend, IN 46637 \ (219) 272-8180 
' 
freshmen Benoit Cotnoir and Aniket Dhadphale have also opened the eyes of Notre Dame fans and coaches, scoring four and three points respectively in last weekend's series. 
"My linemates did a great job of setting me up against them," said Urick. ''I'm not surprised that I was able to score, but I know it wouldn't have hap­pened without my teammates helping me out." 
The Irish squeaked out a tough 3-2 victory over the eagles last season, as right wing Tim Harberts found the net with less than a minute left in the game. Irish fans should be treated to another hard fought, low scoring affair against an evenly matched opponent. 
Isn't that how rivalry games always seem to go? 

Poulin 
continued from page 28 
time we go out." 
Poulin points out that the tal­ent level is much better than most fans and critics realize and that in order to be success­ful, the players must first learn how to win. 
"The players and myself are learning as we go," said Poulin. "Winning is a mentality as much as an ability. You must first feel that you're going to win to have any chance of being successful." 
After years of futility and wondering if the Notre Dame hockey program would ever again return to respectability, there finally appears to be a glimmer of light at the end of the dark tunnel. 
And best of all. Irish hockey fans are excited again. 
~' 
~ 
I I 

' 

Friday, October 27, 1995
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS 
• SAINT MARY'S SWIMMING 

Relays, dual meet, to Boston College visits for highlight busy weekend invitational, dual meet 
By LAURIE KELLEHER 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's swimming and div­ing team begins their season this after­noon at The Notre Dame Relays meet at Rolfs Aquatic Center. This is a fun meet for all teams participating. The Belles are competing against Notre Dame, Boston College, and Northern Michigan. 
"This is going to be a nice start to the season." said junior distance swimmer Shannon Kelleher. 
On Saturday they will have their frrst away meet at DePauw. While sad to miss the Boston College football game, the girls are excited to have their first
·­
dual meet. 
"We are looking forward to the meet Saturday," sophomore Tasha Mitchener said. "It should be fun." 
Because Saturday will be the Belles' first dual meet, the swimmers are uncertain about how they will do. 
"We've been working hard," said 
Kelleher. "We've been training harder and have increased yardage and weights so we are broken down. We think we will make a good showing on Saturday." 
Leading the Belles this Friday and Saturday are captains Natalie Cheeseman and Jen Mitchell, who are seniors, and junior Shannon Kelleher. Other seniors include Jill Cooper, Jen Dyjak, Katie Gibbs, Teresa Popp, and Katie Rose. 
The juniors on this year's team are diver Megan McHugh, Mary Ruschmeier, and Lisa Shroeder. The sophomores are Sarah Gillen, Tasha Mitchener, Allison Smith, and Betsy Wright. 
This year there was a big turnout of 
freshman who include diver Anne 
Baughman, Alyssa Kenealy, Erin 
Laurell, diver Sara Levandusky, Cynthia 
Meyer, diver Katie Ryan, Lisa Schulte, 
and Tara Thomas. 
The Notre Dame Relays begin at 4 
o'clock p.m. at Rolfs Aquatic center. 
Saint Mary•s Swimming and Diving Schedule 

10/27 10/28 11/11 11/18 
11/30.12/02 12/02 12/08 1120 1/26 1/27 2/03 2/22 2124 
Notre Dame Relays at DePauw University at Calvin College Wabash College Invitational 
at IUPU-1 Nataorium Notre Dame Invitational Diving at Wabash Invitational at Albion College at Hillsdale College KALAMAZOO at University of Chicago at University of Indianapolis Liberal Arts Invitational at DePauww University 4:30 1:00 1:00 10:30 10:00 
9:30 7:00 1:00 7:00 2:00 1:00 11:00 
6:15 
•
DICI( VITALE IS •• HOLDING COURT 
Join Hammes Notre Dame 
Bookstore in welcoming legendary ESPN and ABC-TV college basketball analyst Dick Vitale for two book signings 
this weekend. 
r 

By BRIDGET CASEY 
Sports Writer 
Coming ofT a period of intense training and an impressive win against Western Ontario over Fall break, the Irish swim­mers look forward to making their first splash into the Big East with a meet against Boston College this weekend. Before the football teams even take the field for pre-game warm-ups, Saturday morning's meet against the Eagles will cap ofT a full weekend of competition for the Irish. 
Friday afternoon the Irish swimmers aim to take over where they left ofT last weekend against a field of seven teams gathering for the annual Notre Dame Relays. 
On the women's side, the Irish fin­ished first and second in nine of eleven events, sweeping two of them. In the 200 Individual Medley, the senior and junior sister combination of Jesslyn and Alyssa Peterson led the field, followed by sophomore standout Lauren Relay and junior Liz Rice. The 200 Backstroke showcased the solid depth of the team with sophomore Jenna Rozzini finishing first in a time of 2:15.50 fol­lowed by fellow Irish Megan Eckstein and Chrissy Holmberg coming in second and third respectively. 
Sophomores Courtney South and 
Linda Gallo also notched wins in the 50 
and 500 Freestyle, respectively, with 
South finishing in a time of 25.18 and 
Gallo leading the field by a full four sec­
onds. 
In their first meet, Irish freshmen 
Anne Iacobucci and Becca 
Roedersheimer were victorious with 
Iacobucci winning the 1,000 Freestyle (10:51.03) and Roedersheimer taking the 200 Breaststroke in 2:30.38. 
The Irish men were equally impres­sive against Western Ontario winning all but two events. Senior Dave Doherty set the pace for the team winning the 100 and 200 Freestyle and anchoring the 400 Medley Relay team to a first place finish, combining with fellow senior Rob Flynn, junior Matt Rose and freshman Jeff Page for the win. 
Irish freshman Scott Zumbach led the talented underclassmen with wins in the 200 Butterfly (2:00.16) and the 1,000 Freestyle sweep (9:51.86) with fresh­man Wes Richarson and senior co-cap­tain Tim Sznewajs. 
"The freshmen looked really strong 
and will add to the depth of the already 
talented team", Irish co-captain George 
Lathrop said. "Such a strong win is a 
great way to start the season. We are 
definitely looking forward to swimming 
even faster this weekend and beating 
BC". 
This weekend's festivities begin with the Notre Dame Relays on Friday at 4 
p.m. and will feature BC, Marquette, Northeastern Illinois, Wabash. Val­paraiso. St. Mary's and Northern Michigan. 
Saturday's dual meet against Boston 
College will begin at 10 am. 
"We have been training really hard 
and are definitely looking forward to 
racing," senior co-captain Anna Cooper 
said. "From the freshmen especially, we 
are anticipating some big swims". 
Fellow captain Joy Michnowicz added, "We are looking forward to a good start to the season with a big win over BC and fast races from everyone." 


technical, while Boston College
• CROSS COUNTRY 
is probably a little more ath­
Wo01en 
Big East Championships to provide top-ten competition 
ByB.J. HOOD 
Sports Writer 
Tlw Notre Dame cross coun­try teams travel to Manhattan for the Big East Championship on Saturday. 
The Irish are coming off the competitive Iowa 'state Classic. Once again. the Irish runners will raee against some of the nation's best. The women will face three of tho nation's top five teams in top-ranked Vil­lanova, third-ranked Provi­dence, and Georgetown. which is ranked fifth. Villanova has won tho conference meet the last three years. 
Head coach Joe Piane does not think the men's field will be quite as deep as at Iowa State, but it will still be highly competitive. The Georgetown nwn are ranked tenth in the nation, while Providence car­ries a number twenty-one rank­ing. Georgetown won the meet last year. 
The women's squad is led by senior Maureen Kelly. Kelly has been the top Irish finisher in all the meets this season. "Maureen Kelly ran well­that's the only positive we can draw out of that {Iowa State)," Piane said. "She can still run better and she'll tell you that." 
The men's team continues to have five strong runners. Se­nior Derek Seiling led the Irish at Iowa State. Seniors Derek Martisus and Joe Dunlop, ju­nior Matt Althoff, and sopho­more Jason Rexing finished close behind. 
"We had a small spread be­tween one and five," Piane said. Dunlop, Althoff. and Seiling have finished first for the Irish 
BEND COLLEGE f'> FO~TBALL ~,HALL
OF FAME 

Thinking of south Bend? Think oakwood villas! 
• 
single family homes-villa concept 

• 
association landscaping & snow removal 

• 
8 models; 1200 to 1900 sq ft-or more 

• 
minutes from Notre Dame & StMary's 

• 
minutes from Blackthorn Golf Course 

• 
quick access to Toll Rd & shopping 

• 
as low as $110,000, including lot 


Miller Builders 
(219) 277-0337 W R Birkey & Assoc (219) 272-2892 
this season, and Martisus and Rexing have been second at least once each. 
Piane commented on how the men can improve. "We need to go out a little more aggressively as a group. Turn it up a notch and we will be a very good team." 
If you see sports happening, call The Observer at 1-4543 
continued from page 28 
in South Bend, the 10-4-2 Bull­dogs will play Michigan State Friday night. A win there or against the Irish could put some distance between Butler and three other teams still in the hunt for a Midwestern bid to the tournament. 
Last year Butler graduated eight seniors and brought in twelve freshman this year in order to compensate for the losses. This youth combined with the promise of the post­season makes the Bulldogs no pushover. 
"We're such a young team that anytime we play a top-five team, our kids won't have any trouble getting up for the game," Blitz added. 
In order to negate this factor, the Irish will need to accom­plish the two things that have proved vital in their thirteen wins. 
"We have to start strong and we have to keep possession of the ball," Petrucelli noted. "Butler's probably a little more 
1995-96 JOHN M. DUGGAN SERIES 
FRIDAY, NOV. 3, 8 P.M. O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM $5 SMC/ND COMMUNITIES $4 STUDENTS 
TICkets on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, located in O'Laughlin Auditorium, 9·5 Monday-Friday. Visa, Discover, MasterCard orders at 
219/284-4626. 
JUST ONE MORE REASON TO COME TO 
~TEAK 
On Notre Dame home football 

game weekends: 
OUTDOOR PAVILION 
Enjoy refreshments and watch other games on the BIG SCREEN TV while you wait for your table in our lighted pavilion. 
Pavillion Hours: 3:00p.m. to midnight on Fri. and Sat. Steak &Ale Restaurant 52554 US 31 North* South Bend, IN 46637* 219/277-3766 
letic." 
The Eagles have shaped their game around this athleticism during the year. 
"We play a finesse game," Boston College coach Terez Biancardi said. "We try to pass a lot and play the ball on the ground." 
Boston College's 8-6 record is a little deceiving considering they have lost a majority of their games by one goal. 
"We've had some good wins and disappointing losses," Biancardi added. "We have dominated, but couldn't put the ball in the net." 
With a 4-3 record in the Big East, they will need to put the ball in the net if they hope to make the conference tourna­ment next weekend. Leading the Eagles in this effort are captains Jessica and Allison David and Kara Nance. 
"We have to have a success­ful game against Notre Dame to make the tournament," Bian­cardi said. "Its a great oppor­tunity to play a soccer power­house." 
A house of power is all the Irish have been their past two games, outshooting their oppo­nents 87-3. Maintaining this momentum is crucial heading into tournament play. 
"This is the time to start play­ing well," mid fielder Julie Maund said. "We had a big team meeting and wanted to get this moving in the right di­rection." 
"Its important for us to get on a roll," Petrucelli added . "We've started to do that with our last two gall]eS. We've got the ball rolling and we just got to keep it rolling." 
No pun intended. Or maybe it was. 
"Gel Shorty"  (R)  
2:00. 4:20. 7:30, 9:55  
(R)  

(PG-13) 2:10,4:40.7:10.9 :w 
(R) 
1·:UJ. 4:00, 7:00, 9:45 
"Vampire In Brooklyn" (R) 
1:45, 4•10. 7:20,9:35 
"The Big Green" (PG) 
2:00.4:30 
(R) 
(R) 
2:25,4:40. 7:10. 9::W 
"Never Talk lo Strangers" (R) 
2:40. 4:55. 725. 9:40 
CANCUN·SOUTH PADRE ISlAND
+
E•lv booking minus until Nov. 16, 1995

+
Gu••ntNd h_,t Price


+ BoDle urtr for lhllloweat prica & beat propeniu 
$99""'" .....
FROM PEitSON $3991L.. South P•dre ea ... .., Nota: With Panama City 11venly omagiNI ky Hurricane Opal, allsp1t1 ia selling aut f11t 
1-800-SURF"S UP 
STUDENT EXPRESS, INC. 
Engagement Rings 10%-15% OFF! Official Wholesale Price List! 

S.A. Peck & Co. 
55 E. 'l%uhington, Chicago, IL 60602 For 11 Free 32-Pog~ Color uwuog 1011-Fn~ (800) 922-0090 FAX (312) 977-0248 Internet Callllor Ill hnp: /lwww.•apeck.com/SD~<k 

--~­
page 24 The Observer • SPORTS 
• VOLLEYBJ.\1..1.. 
Conference foes to visit Irish 
By BETSY BAKER 
SportS W ricer 
The 14th-ranked Notre Dame volleyball team takes to the road again this weekend with hopes of remaining undefeated in the Big East and regaining the confidence and rhythm that was crushed by four exhausting losses over fall break. 
The Irish, now 5-0 in the con­ference, rebounded well after dropping four straight matches to no. 22 Georgia Tech, no. 8 Texas, no. 12 Long Beach State, and no. 4 Stanford, with two conference victories last week­end over Syracuse and Pittsburgh. 
However, the Fall break de­feats did some damage to the team's morale and the main challenge for the Irish now lies in returning to the level of play that they were at before the break. 
."We're still working on get­ting back into a rhythm," Irish head coach Debbie Brown said. "We played okay against Syra­cuse and Pittsburgh, but we're looking to play back to the level we are capable of." 
"Fall break took a toll on us." 
The Irish will continue their recovery as they take their 18-5 record to Rutgers on Saturday and Seton Hall on Sunday. Rutgers stands at a mediocre 10-12 on the year and lines the floor of the Big East with its 0-5 conference record. The Lady Knights are led by senior out­side hitter Jennifer Prosek who has compiled 245 kills and 221 digs thus far this season. 
Seton Hall is struggling to re­build itself this season after los­ing many of their key players to graduation last year. The Pirates claimed a share of last year's Big East title with Connecticut and Pittsburgh, but with a 1-4 conference record, 11-13 overall, they are left vy­ing for the eighth place slot of the conference with Providence and West Virginia. 
Coach Brown remains cau­tiously optimistic about both matches this weekend. 
"I think Seton Hall is better than what their start has indi­cated," Brown said. "But if we play like we are capable of playing, we should win both matches." 
. ·• The Irish have continued to be led by sophomore outside hitter Angie Harris who leads the conference with kills and service aces, averaging 4.44 kills and 0.60 service aces per game. Harris broke her own Irish record of eight services aces in a game, set last year against Texas, by recording nine in the match against Syra­cuse last Friday. In just two seasons, Harris's 121 aces moves her up to second place in career aces, behind Alicia Turner's total of 135 set over four seasons from 1989-1992. 
Sophomore Jaimie Lee fol­lows closely behind Harris, posting 331 kills, and junior co­captain Jenny Birkner contin­ues to lead the team defensively with 256 digs and 58 blocks. 
A major factor in the contin­ued success of the Irish lies in the consistency of the team's play and the avoidance of caus­tic errors. 
"Most of the pressure of this weekend will come from what we put on ourselves," Brown said. 
Now in the home stretch of the season, with the Big East championships just three weeks away, the Irish are looking to end their season successfully and continue into post-season play with an attitude of confi­dence for achieving the goals set for the team this season. ­
With the exception of a match against top-ranked Nebraska, the Irish play nothing but con­ference matches for the rest of the regular season. While the Big East provides competitive matches for the Irish, they are nowhere near what the Irish will see in post-season play. Still, the Irish regard the con­ference matches as stepping stones to their final goal. which is reaching the Final Four. 
"Right now, we are not as good as we want to be at the end of the season," Birkner commented. "The individual teams might not push us as hard as we'd like, but each match is a chance for us to im­prove." 
Brown concurred with that statement. 
"It's a matter of looking at the big picture and seeing where we want to be at the end of the season. Each match is a step closer to our end goal, to reach the final four." 
"If we don't take every oppor­tunity we get, we won't get there." 

CANDAX McNAIR PROGRAM 
Organizational Meeting with DR. MARIO BORELLI DIRECTOR, CANDAX 
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1995 
7:00 P.M. ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM (CUSHING) 
FOR STUDENTS INTERESTED IN GRADUATE STUDIES 
WHO ARE EITHER FIRST GENERATION COLLEGE STUDENTS ON FINANCIAL AID OR FROM UNDERREPRESENTED GROUPS 
ALL INTERESTED STUDENTS ARE WELCOME REFRESHMENTS AFTER THE MEETING AT 8:00P.M. 
Friday, October 27, 1995 


http:/Iirishsports.com/ 
Mit(IIWJ,[t1id1Qtlhi,,if\Hr/i,tt1:0ttJ•~.ip ,httilS1jtiM 
lrlsb filP-IJlrls RtiiJ&lJII 
Too much criticism aimed at Notre Dame quarterback? 
TELL US YES OR NO AND WHY 
What was the seating capacity of Notre Dame Stadium when it opened in 1930? 
ANSWER AND WIN 

Anchoring the line! 
PHOTO OF THE WEEK 
Walk-ons earn respect, reward. 
THIS WEEK'S FEATURE ARTICLE 

FREE TRIAL ISSUE OFFER 

!lome !'all" I Answ•r & Win I Feutm-e Arliclo/Talk llackllrish Sl<w I South Jl<.nd/ToOrtlo!· 


0MPU5 
tv11NI5TRY 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 25 
Basilica 8:00, 10:00 & 11:45 am 
Sacred Heart Parish Crypt 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 
l 
1
9:30 & 11:00 am ~ 
... 1
1 
4 


page 26 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, October 27, 1995 
• SAINT MARY's SoccER • SAINT Mttnv's Vm..lEYBAtt 
Physical play mars victory Home careers end on 
sour note for seniors as Belles fall in three 
By CAROLINE BLUM Saint Mary's Sporrs Editor 
Some pushes, some shoves, 
and a lot of profanity. None of 
it was enough to slow the Saint 
Mary's soccer team on 
Wednesday. 
Despite the Saint Francis team's demonic behavior, the 'hooligans fell to the Belles 2-0. 
"Saint Francis was extremely 
aggressive toward us on 
Wednesday," junior forward 
Lisa Nichols said. "They kept 
cussing at us and were inten­
tionally violent. We've never 
played a game like that before." 
The violence broke out early. 
Due to their late arrival, the 
Belles were left with only five 
minutes of warm-up time. 
Preparation was a factor, and 
the Belles allowed their fiesty 
opponents to dominate the first 
fifteen minutes of the half. 
Once the adrenaline started 
flowing, however, forwards 
senior Tiffany Raczynski and 
sophomore Debbie Diemer 
marched down the field with 
the ball. Receiving an assist 
from Diemer, Raczynski looked 
towards the goal and fired. 
And her target was hit. 
"Tiffany's goal (assisted by 
Debbie) was a beautiful goal," 
head coach Solomon Scholz 
said. "I am really impressed 
with her last few goals. She 
has taken what we practice and 
applied it to game play." 
Never did the Belles expect, 
however, that Saint Francis 
would return the Belles' gift 
with a vengeance not on the 
ball, but on the Belles them­
selves. 
"We noticed Saint Francis's 
cocky attitude even before we 
got on the field," freshman full­
back Monica Cernanec said. 
"After we scored the first goal 
they got angry and became very 
verbal toward us. They used 
their mouths and bodies to get 
back at us." 
Rather than becoming frus­
trated, however, the Belles 
fought back. 
"They became really rude, so 
we were rude right back," said 
Nichols. "But we were different 
because we kept our mouths 
shut and used body strength 
instead." 
The battle for blood recon­
vened after a short break to 
mend the wounds at halftime 
with even more kicks and pro­
fanities in the second half. 
Fullback Sandra Gass was 
forced to surrender after a 
Saint Francis player tried to 
tackle her ankle rather than the 
ball. Gass, who had already 
suffered injury to her ankle, 
was immediately removed from 

the game and replaced with Cernanec. Gass will remain benched for the game against DePauw on Saturday. 
Contradicting to the hooli­gans' plan, however, the Gass­Cernanec swap worked for the Belles and not against. 
After the slide tackle of a Saint Mary's player, the Belles were granted a free kick. Without delay and much to the opponent's surprise, Cernanec shot the ball straight to the goal. 
"We practiced the move many times in practice," said Cer­nanec. "Solomon is always telling us not to delay during free kicks. For the first time we obeyed, and we were re­warded." 
The battle ended with one yellow card, an injury, no deaths, and a score of 2-0. 
Saturday the Belles travel to DePauw for what they hope to be a less physical game. 
FAMOUS 

DINE IN OR CARRY OUT 
SZE-CHAUN • CHINESE • VIETNAMESE AMERICAN DISHES 
"Enjoy a unique experience in Oriental Dining" 
•Private 
Dining Booths 

•Fresh 
Ingredients 

•No 
Mass Production 

•Healthy 
Family Style Dining 

•Vegetarian 
Menu 


For Reservations & Carry Out Call: 
272-6702 
For Delivery Call 272-2-EAT 6329 University Commons 
(Across from University Park Mall) South Bend, IN 46635 Moo-Thtrs tt At.l-9 PM Fooay II AM-10 PM
VISA 
SaiUrday 4PII-10 Pll 
By KATHLEEN POLICY Sports Writer 
Seniors Sara Stronczek, Ann Lawrence, and Kelley Prosser will be missed not only for their talent, but for their leadership and work ethic. 
As they participated in their last home game Wednesday night. the seniors realized it would be last time they would take the floor as Saint Mary's volleyball players. 
Unfortunately, a victory will not be remembered. The Belles fell in three close games. 15-8, 10-15, and 10-15. 
"The game was sad because it was our last, but the loss made it feel worse," senior middle hitter Sara Stronczek said. 
Head coach Julie Schroeder­Biek attributed the team's loss to inconsistent play and poor concentration. 
"These are the same prob­lems that we have been bat­tling all year," said Schroeder­Biek. "One minute we will be playing well and the next we will be caught sleeping." 
Schroeder-Biek also believes the team's loss to be connected to the team's attentiveness. 
"The play was not crisp," said Schroeder-Biek. "The transi­tion at the net was slow, and so the blocks were late," said Schroeder-Biek. 
The seniors were among the key players in the game, along with the help of sophomore setter Kelly Meyer. Meyer is presently nationally ranked 17th in Division III for assists per game. 
"Kelly never set the ball be­fore last year, and it is a credit to her work ethic and hustle that she has come this far," said Schroeder-Biek. 
To the seniors, Schroeder­Biek expressed that she will miss them badly and have a hard time replacing them. 
The season is not over yet, however. The Belles go on the road this weekend for a matchup with Lake Forest. 
Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds 

The Office of Special Events presents 
APOLLO 13 
COMMANDER 
JAMES LOVELL 
IN PERSON 
April 1970. A "routine" mission to the moon. A malfunctioning spacecraft leaves the three-man crew in grave danger. The resulting tale, told by the astronaut in charge of the mission, is one of courage, ingenuity and unflagging human spirit. 
THURSDAY, NOV. 2, 7:30 P.M. O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
WHATTA WEEKEND! 
vs. 
,· 

cents a minute.) HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Swifter career or financial progress will come through self-promotion. Be on the lookout for profitable real estate deals as 1995 draws to a close. New alliances bring fun and glam­our early in '96. j<nowing a second language gives you additional social cachet. Welcome an opportunity to travel for business or pleasure next summer. You will make friends and contacts wherever you go! Let 
young people know you care about what is important to them. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actor John Cleese. sportscaster Jayne Kennedy, artist Roy Lichtenstein, poet Sylvia Plath. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Take hold of the reins and do the driving until a long-sought goal is reached. Store bargains abound: refuse to let the grass grow under your feet. A secret wish is granted this afternoon. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Observe what the "big shots" are doing and follow suit. Investigating the past will provide needed answers. Once you know what you want, swing into action. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Unexpected developments could overturn your plans or nullify antici­
BILL WATTERSON 
SCOTT ADAMS 
pated results. Keep on striving, 
DILBERT CALVIN AND HOBBES 
Il-l 1\\E. ~UI\.lRt.. t.V~ING Will.. &:. EH:ORTLE'3S! 
page 27 
t{() t{IJ \'51\NCC, ~ Wt>ST£0 
111'1\t., NCI AN\'ICY'{\ NG­1-\\l!'<\1>-N INI£.RAC\\()\'l ... 
r-------------------------~ 
HERE'S A. BIG BINDER WHICH AT FIRST GLANCE 
SEEMS USEFUL I BUT 
YOU'LL REALIZE 
LATE!\ IT'S NOT. 
THREE OTHER PEOPLE ASKED FOR Tl-lt>.T SA.I"\E. 
INFORMATION. YOU f'\UST BE. ON 
50 Golfo de Cadiz contents 51 Net judge's cry 
52 Water closets 55 Mysterious "gift" 56 Bit of wisdom ln--+----+­
58 Laughing water, in Sioux 
61 Event that produces big bucks? 
62 Long-distance needs 63 County on the Thames 
64 England and Spain, historically 
DOWN 
1 Itching cause 2 Brandy or whisky 3 Certain 
complaining 4 Block 5 Coach 
Parseghian 
25 Treaty of Waitangi6 Left signatories
7 Well-known 26 Peter of CNN
California Congressman 28 First king of 
&Them England 
9 Evening horizon 29 Only now and sight then 
10 Indy quest 30 Put to a test 11 Literary genre 34 Summer drink 12 Rogers's wife 
35 Theater bigwig 13 Teen outcast 
36 Emulate Joe 14 School subject Montana or 23 Misbehave Casanova 
REDUNDANT 
PROJECTS. 
) 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 70's-80's sitcom actress 10 Padua's-Chapel 15 Place to go back to 16 British-made car 17 Having inferior forces 18 S. S. Kresge, today 19 Deserter 20 Prowling cats 21 What's more 22St. -­(English seaside resort) 24 Some Arizonans 
27 Most light 
31 D.E.A. employee 32 Brandy cocktail 33 A little 
resistance 37 Ziering of "Beverly Hills 90210" 38 Globe-trotter Nellie 
39 Anger 40 "The Crying 
Game" star 41 Led (into) 43 Address SW of 
Juneau 45 Some debating points 47 Port NWof Bruxelles 48 British army orderlies 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1995 (For your personalized daily Jeane Dixon horoscope, hased on your own date of birth, call 1-900-988-7788. Your phone company will bill you 99 
u·r-------------------------~
,.. 
nonetheless. Romance could be unusually complicated.
: I 1VE. GOT SURE. I'M USING 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
~ A FEW THEI"\ TO 5UILD 
Heed your loved ones' words: they are capable of coming up with some
-!'\ORE AN ADDITION 
great ideas. Shun the bright Iights 
tonight and stay at home. A heart-to­
~ USE.LE.S~ TO 1"\Y CUBICLE. 
. ~ 
heart talk with your mate covers a
, BINDERS. 
lot of territory. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Refuse to let someone come between you 
.. DO YOU 
WANT 'U\!' 
) 
and your spouse or partner. Those who stray from the straight and nar­
• OF INTEREST 
Students Interested In postgraduate volunteer work may wish to speak wlth Father Bob Lombardo, class of '79.. Father Bob is recruiting volunteers to help serve at the St. Anthony residence for formerly homeless men located in New York City. A variety of yearlong jobs are available at the residence. Fr. Bob wlll be in the esc from 9:30 a.m.-noon and from 2:30­5 p.m. Friday, Oct. 21. Stop by, or call Patty at the CSC(63l·514-2) for an appointment. 
M.S.A. students and alumni will be tailgating in front of DeBartolo one hour before the game this Saturday along wlth every home game this year. 
•MENU 
Notre Dame 
North South Shrimp Poppers Shrimp Poppers Polish Sausage Turkey/Mozzarela Sandwich 
row now will be sorry later. Be hon­est if you see the merit in a neigh­bor's complaint. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Be more tolerant in your personal rela· tionships. Dwelling on someone·, flaws is a mistake. Good humor will help neutralize someone's tendency to be waspish. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Open your heart to the needy. Put personal pleasures on hold while helping out with an important community cam­paign. A young person is watching to see how you handle a tough situa· tion. Act mature. 
SCORI'IO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Make "caution" your watchword today. A business plan could go haywire. Do some research before launching new ventures. Rely on expert assistance from your friend' or co-workers. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Persistence and patience are your keys to an eventual triumph. Sign contracts and agreements. A retiree could find a whole new career in public service. Flexibilit) is essential when traveling. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Be a good Samaritan. Build someone up with kind words and deeds. Research a second career if thinking of retiring. You have a lot more cre­ative talent than you realize. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): It looking for new employment, seek a job that will allow you to travel now and then. Someone urges you to invest in a daring new idea or prod­uct. Keep your savings in the bank. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20) Pent-up anger can be bad for your health. Go ahead and blow the whis tie on an injustice. You will find allie~ when you need them mo\t Focus your attention on the social scene this evening. 
(._ 
.. 
-
B~efTamale Oven-Roast Potatoes 
39 Bar opening 51 13 popes 
Saint Mary's
42 Cornered 53 Top status 
44Mauna--54 Lose it 
Baked Citrus Halibut 
56 Not post46 Comedienne 
Tortellini with Pesto Sauce 
Diamond et al. 57 Bagel topper 
Chinese Pepper Steak 
48lndian 59 Italian jewelry novelist 
49Bete--60Theway 
11J..l~ilS I~ lli~(~Y(~1..1~ Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
'1,111~ ()liSI~ ll\TI~ ll 
5656 (75¢ each minute). 
I
is playing.th· weekend., 
l l
Fri./Sat. 8 and 10 Sunday2pm $2 admission at 


SPORTS 
page 28 Friday, October 27, 1995 
• MEl'S SOCCER • WoMEN's SoccER 
Poulin welcomes challenge of rebuilding 
Irish back to winning ways with 4-0 victory 
By DYLAN BARMMER 
Sports Writer 
For the first time in what must have felt like a long while, it was fun again. Fun to take the field. Fun to break through the cold fall night with the ball on your foot. Fun to celebrate the The Irish opened the scor­
-.,........,._._...1 ing on a spectacular strike 
from team captain Tony Capasso, who buried a blis­tering shot in the upper right corner of the net from over 30 yards out at the 27:44 mark. The goal was the seventh of 
The Observer/ Brent Tadsen the year for the Irish captain, . . and paved the way for an Irish
Sophomore m1dflelder Scott Wells and the Notre upris'ng 
Dame men's soccer squad shut out Western 1 · 
Michigan 4-0 Thursday evening. ------s-ee_M_E_N_/,-p_a_g_e_l_8 
~HOCKEY 
By MIKE DAY 
Sports Writer 
There is excitement in the air. 
A certain aura of hope and anticipation permeates the Notre Dame campus these days. It is an element that has been missing for several years, and although you cannot see it or touch it, there is no denying its existence. 
The cause of this excitement is the rejuvenated Irish hockey program, and the source is none other than new head coach Dave Poulin. 
Poulin, plucked away from the NHL ranks last April, faces the daunting task of turning around a program that, let's face it, needs a complete 180 degree revolution after past failures. 
"The program has gone through some difficult stages," said Poulin. "We have a great deal of work to do to turn it around, but I truly envision this as an elite hockey program at some time in the future." 
The Irish have struggled ever since their move into the CCHA in 1992 before bottoming out last year at 11-25-1. Former 
\ head coach Ric Schafer along with hls "my way or the high­way" coaching philosophy were sent packing last March in an anticipated announcement. 
Women's Soccer 
goals with your teammates. Fun to win. 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team had all kinds of fun in defeating Western Michigan 4-0 last night at Alumni Field, reveling in every moment of their domination over the hapless 
Broncos. 


"I just told the guys to go out and play well and have some fun," commented head coach Mike Berticelli after the win. 
Berticelli's team was obvi­ously listening, as the intense Irish controlled every facet of the game, outshooting the Broncos 25-12 en route to a convincing win. The win snapped the Irish's three game losing streak, and brought their record to an even 8-8 on the year.j7 
Rivalries begin, conclude 
Boston College, Butler, to visit in final weekend of regular season 
By JOE VILLINSKI 
Assistant Sports Editor 
The final two regular season games at Alumni Field this weekend will mark both a be­ginning and an ending for the No. 5 women's soccer team. 
Tonight's contest against Boston College will be the initial match between the two teams, while Sunday's game against Butler may be the last. 
Along with Xavier, Butler was
the other team from the Mid­western Collegiate Conference that remained on the schedule 
this year. The Observer/ Mike Ruma "This will be the last time we . . . , . 
play them " coach Chris Petru-M_1df1elder Julie ~au~d s recent. play helped the lnsh celli said. ' climb back up to fifth 1n the rankmgs. 
For the Irish, it might be tough to say good-bye to the Bulldogs based on their record against their former confer­ence rival. Over the past four years, the Irish boast a perfect 6-0 record, allow­ing Butler only four goals in those games. 
However, Butler shares similar senti­ments regarding Notre Dame's depar­ture from their schedule. 
Just over a month later. Poulin left the NHL for South Bend, and to say that he has been labeled the "savior" would be an accurate assessment. 
"I am truly looking forward to the challenge that awaits," said Poulin. "I realize that it will be very frustrating at times, but I've acquired the ability to keep going no matter what stands in front of me." 
If anyone is up to the chal­lenge, it is Poulin. The thirty­six year old Notre Dame gradu­ate has excelled at every level during the course of his career. While in college, the two time captain received numerous ac­colades and established several long-standing Irish records. 
After signing with Philadelphia in 1983, Poulin spent 14 seasons in the NHL with the Flyers, the Boston Bruins, and the Washington Capitals. During his 14 year career, he amassed 530 points and played in two NHL All-Star games and three Stanley Cup rmals. 
"We're bringing back, clearly, 
· our most famous, most success­ful hockey player. Dave's ca­reer has been nothing short of phenomenal," said former Notre Dame Athletic Director Dick Rosenthal at the press conference last April. Poulin brings an aggressive. 
• Volleyball team faces conference foes 
; ... 
-·-L 
.-....--... ~"nnL....._:.=~;-·, ..,.---....-..~ 
.....,.,_"'":':~c· .:,._.,;.,.,.,._...._.,.__ 
"We grow either way when we play them," Butler coach Bryan Blitz explained. "We have such a great respect for their program. Its a win-win situation." 
Currently, Butler needs any wins it can get as they fight to keep their NCAA tournament hopes alive. Before arriving 
see WOMEN/ page 23 
up tempo style of play to Notre Dame that may have been lack­ing the past few seasons under the guide of Schafer. With the players responding well to Poulin's new style so far, the coaching change appears to have been just what the doctor ordered. 
"He is able to relate to his players, and the players are able to relate to him," said ju­nior left wing Brian McCarthy. "He has stressed communica­tion and the team concept, and that is something we may not have had a lot oflast year." 
Added captain Brett Bruininks, "Las~ year, we were a team of individuals with a bunch of cliques. He has made us a team. He has taught us to work hard and to have confi­dence in our abilities." 
It all starts at practice. Poulin has created a game-like atmosphere during daily work­outs, and the players truly believe that they will benefit in the long run. 
"We have upbeat, high tempo practices where we perform at the game level," said senior de­fenseman Garry Gruber. "He talks a lot about work ethic and practicing hard the whole time. The confidence he has in us gives us more confidence every 
see POULIN I page 21 
vs. Boston College October 28, 2:30 EST 
vs. Boston College October 27, 7:30 vs. Butler October 29, Noon 
see page 24 
Cross Country Volleyball
at Big East Championships October 28 
• Cross country heads to Manhattan 
at Rutgers October 28, 2:00 p.m. 
Men's Soccer 
at Seton Hall October 29, 2:00 p.m. 
see page 23
at Connecticut October 29, I :00 p.m. 
SMC Sports • Swim teams prepare for big weekend ND & SMC Swimming 
Soccer at DePaw October 28, 1:00 p.m. at Notre Dame Relays October 27 Volleyball at Lake Forest October 28 
see page 22 









