
Monday, February 13, 1995 • Vol. XXVI No. 85 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAJ\1E AND SAINT i\1ARY'S 
Patrick-McCarthy to be 'voice' of ND 
Flanner Co-Presidents win majority of votes from Mod and 'God' Quads in run-off 
By LIZ FORAN 
Associate News Editor 
A ncar-swcep of the Mod Quad and slight majority of Main "God" Quad votes landed Flanrwr Co-Presidents Jonathon Patrick and Dennis McCarthy in the driver's snat of student gov­~~rnm1~nt for the eoming year. 
"Dennis and I arc really ex­citnd about the way things turned out," Patrick said. "Wn're nxcited to get into office and begin working." 
With a platform emphasizing improved student government­student body communication, MeCarthy and Patrick took 55 percnnt of the total vote, with 
2.041 student votes in the clec­tion. 
Kevin Klau and Larissa Herczeg took 45 percent, or 1,623 vote, 3,664 students votnd in the election. 
Dcspite the controversy sur­rounding a late entry to the race, the Patrick/McCarthy tick­et had the strongest support from the Mod Quad, taking 75 percent, or 954 of the 1,267 votes cast. 
They showed a slight majority on the Main Quad, with 54 per­
cent of the 451 votes, while narrowing losing the north quad. 
Klaulllerczeg took 61 percent of the South Quad votes, or 667 of the 1,103 votes from that area. They also took North Quad with 54 percent of the 806 ballots cast. 
Although disappointed, Her­czeg expressed support for the Patrick and McCarthy ticket. 
"We want to congratulate JP and Dennis, " she said. "Kevin and I both think that they'll do a good job." 
"We also want to thank ev­eryone who supported us throughout the election," she added. 
"We could never have made it as far as we did without the support of our friends." 
Only 37 of the 1,440 off-cam­pus student voted in the run-off election, dropping total voter turnout to only 4 7 percent of the student body. Of the on­campus residents, 55 percent cast ballots. 
Patrick and McCarthy owe 10 percent of their total votes to their own dorm, with 364 of 387 total Flanner votes cast for them. 





After taking a weekend trip to relax and get away from the pressure of campaigning and the election, Patrick said that he and McCarthy are anxious to get into office and get started on the ideas of their platform. 
"We're going to start working 

Voting By Quad 
Klau Patrick 

Mod 313 954 God 205 246 North 429 377 South 667 436 
Totals 1614 2013 
The Observer/Christopher Mullins 
on making WVFI an FM radio "This part of the campus re­station in a couple of weeks," ally pulled together," Patrick he said. said. 
"We really are working to become the voiee of Notre "We really want to thank Dame. everyone who supported us all 
"We're excited to start im­over campus. We're really plementing our ideas," he happy with the way things added. turned out." 
Service award given 



to Suzman 
Special to The Ohscrver 
llfllen Suzman. South African political activist and outspoken opponent of her nation's now abolished apartheid system, will rne11ivc the 1994 Notre Dame Award for international humanitarian service during a eeremony at Notre Dame on April 5. 
"Helen Suzman confronted tlw legalized barbarism of a nation state with courage, compassion, and eivilized self­assurance," said Notre Dame President Father Edward Mal­loy. "Iter political career has been driven by the hunger and thirst for justiee which the Beatitudes celebrate and which is shared by the finest mem­bers of the Notre Dame com­munity." 
A member of the South African Parliament from 1953 until her retirement in 1989, Suzman, representing the Pro­gressive Party, was the sole anti-apartheid member of that body from 1961-74. 
During her stormy tenure in parliament, the occasionally acerbic Suzman regularly and publicly clashed with pro­apartheid prime ministers llendrik Verwoerd, Johannes Vorster, and P.W. Botha. 
see AWARD I page 4 



Hundreds march for GLND/SMC 
Students, staff, and faculty show support 
By DAVE TYLER 
News Editor 
Over three hundred students, professors, and staff marched on the Administration Building 
• see SECURITY, page 20 
Friday afternoon to protest the 
University's decision to ban Gay 
and Lesbians of Notre Dame and 
Saint Mary's College (GLND/SMC) 
from meeting in the University 
Counseling Center, and call on 
Notre Dame to officially recog­
nize the group. 
The rally, which began at the 
Debartolo Classroom Building, 
lasted approximately forty min­
utes. After departing from 
Debartolo, the march wound 
towards the Administration 
Building, where marchers 
stretched to form a human circle 
around its base, then passed 
through LaFortune Student 
Center and ended at the 
Fieldhouse Mall area. 
The peaceful demonstration was marked by signs, chants, songs, and an attempt by some marchers to enter the Adminis­tration Building. 
see MARCH I page 4 
---~­

page 2 Monday, February 13, 1995
The Observer· INSIDE 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

The lure 
of 


smoking 
Chances are you have seen me walking down the quad. I am rather easy to recognize with my large trench coat, old beaten-up fedo­ra, goatee and cigarette. 
Yes, you can identify my by the Camel Light hanging from my lips. Smoking almost a pack a day there is almost always a square at my mouth, for I am a smok­er. 
Robert Bollman 
Many non-smokers see 
Graphics

a cigarette as a cancer stick. They see tobacco rolled up into paper with a piece of flberglass on the tip. 
I see 54 mm of smoking pleasure. If I had a nickel for every time someone told me that smoking will kill me, I would be able to pay my tuition in several large bags of loose change. 
I know that smoking takes 15 years off my life, and that it is bad for me. Why then would I choose to continue what has been called the grossest of habits? 
The answer lies not in the cigarette itself, nor the chemicals that are in it. There is something in pulling a cigarette out of a pack, opening my Zippo and setting a spark to it that identifles with my inner soul. It is a bonding experience. 
There is something truly romantic about being able to offer someone a smoke and a light, and sharing six minutes of your life with them. It is the people that make smoking rewarding. 
Why in the world would my friends and I stand outside, with a wind-chill below zero, just to have a cigarette? It is something deep within all smokers. It is the intimacy of shar­ing a flame and a bit of our lives that make the few minutes in the cold a welcome study break. 
It is standing in the open air, bundled up against the chill, inhaling a smouldering bit of dried plant that lends a simplicity to exis­tence. Life takes on a whole different per­spective from the back end of a Marlboro. Relationships are simpler, friends are closer, life is easier, if only for those six minutes. Granted, it's still cold, but this is the allure of smoking. 
Smokers share something in common with one another. There is a fraction of society that every day puts a nicotine stick to their lips and ignites it. There is little greed among these smokers. One person with a pack means cigarettes for all, for we know that sometime we will ne·ed, and there will be someone there. 
That is the way that smoker's karma works 
out. 

There is a trust, a friendship, a common bond among smokers in this smoking-hostile environment. Complete strangers become friends, if only for that few minutes on the back porch of La Fortune or the front steps of Riley. New acquaintances become valued friends in the time it takes to flick a Bic. That is the allure of smoking, and that is why I smoke. 
So look for me on the quad, and ask me for 
a square, and you will see that I am correct. 
In this rude and selflsh society, one smoker 
will usually have a kind word for another. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TmlAY's STAFF  
News  
Gwendolyn Norgle  Production  
Edward Imbus  Kenya Johnson  
Sports  David Diaz  
Matt Casey  Accent  
Viewpoint  Krisra Nannery  
Suzy Fry  Graphics  
Lab Tech  Chris Mullins  
Jenn Rezeli  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction righrs are reserved. 
Monday, Feb. 13 


The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Monday, Feb. 13.
Accu-Weather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

C 1995 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Associated Preta 

Atlant 55 36 Dallas 74 51 New Orleans65 44 Baltimore 39 13 Denver 42 20 New York 35 20 Boston 31 17 Los Angeles 61 54 Philadelphia 34 17 Chicago 27 16 Miami 82 67 Phoenix 6458 Columbus 35 15 Minneapolis 15 -2 St. Louis 3722 
• Wom.o AT A GLANCE 

Haggling, used cars are more attractive, says auto survey 
Auto consumers concerned... 
Asurvey by the National Auto Dealer's Association found that consumers buying automobiles tend to: 
I negotiate I consider used cars first I be most interested in comfort I buy instead of lease I are primarily concerned with safety 
Snitches used too much, says journal 
NEW YORK 
The use of paid informants and other "snitches" by federal law enforcement has become so widespread that it is distorting the legal process. according to a National Law Journal report. Cash payments to informants increased from $25 million in 1985 to $97 million in 1993, according to records obtained by the New York­based weekly through the Freedom of Information Act. Several authorities quoted by the newspaper in its Feb. 13 issue deplored the trend as opening the way to abuse of the legal system. Former Drug Enforcement Administration agent Celerino Castillo called the situa­tion "out of control," with informers being paid two or three times as much for information as agents earn in salary. "The integrity of the criminal justice system is at stake. There needs to be better control and supervi­sion of informants, and it should come from law enforcement, and soon," said Stephen Trott, who head­ed the Justice Department's Criminal Division in the Reagan administration and is now a federal appeals court judge. Trott predicted that if that doesn't happen, "you can bet that Congress or the courts will step in." 
Parents look to movies for gift ideas 
NEW YORK 
Parents scrambling to guess the hot toy of 1995 may not need to look beyond Hollywood. The toys getting the most attention at this year's Toy Fair, the glitzy trade show opening Monday, are based on TV shows or com­ing big-budget movies. Toy makers are taking more cues from the entertainment industry since the huge success of Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles and Power Rangers, which were based on TV programs. Bandai, the company that makes the hottest Power Rangers toys -the small plastic action flgures -has added to the 1995 line of figures based on the upcoming Power Rangers movie. Other companies have products includ­ing games and cuddly versions of the Rangers. The big question is whether the Rangers will dominate the toy business as they did in 1994. Children are flckle con­sumers, and can suddenly and collectively tire of a toy. And there's a slew of other action flgure lines just wait­ing to take the Rangers' place. Several are linked to TV shows or movies, including Bandai's The Tick and Mega Man; Kenner's The Mask; Playmates Toys Inc.'s WildC.A.T.S. and Star Trek; and Tyco's BattleTech. Kenner's VR Troopers, already popular with kids, are back. And there are hundreds of action flgures, plush toys, and games tied to shows and fllms scheduled for later this year, including "Casper," "Sailor Moon," "Masked Rider," "Pocahontas," "Judge Dredd," "Batman Forever," "Congo," and "Waterworld" 


The national telephone survey by the Dohring Co., a Glendale, Calif., automotive market research flrm, also found that: 
• 
High prices are prompting more than 60 percent of car buyers to con­sider used cars instead of new. 

• 
Interior styling, comfort and fea­tures are more important than the outside appearance for more than 60 percent of buyers. 


Dohring said the study found that 
60.5 percent of those surveyed like to negotiate when they buy a new vehi­cle, while 23.5 percent do not. That is a change from Dohring's 1993 survey, which found 52.8 percent liked hag­gling while 34.4 percent did not. 
DALLAS 
Car buyers are more interested now in bargaining for a deal than they were two years ago, and the trend toward no-dicker selling may have peaked, according to a study released Sunday. 
The increase in hagglers is probably a sign that dealers are changing their tradi­tional adversarial relationships with buy­ers and doing a better job of making them happy, said Doug Dohring, chairman of the flrm that conducted the survey. 
"The pressure from the manufacturers that (dealers) must satisfy customers is actually having an impact on the con­sumer," he said after releasing the survey at the National Automobile Dealers Association convention in Dallas. 

Brewers, wholesalers renew debate 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Brewers and wholesalers have renewed a 10-year-old struggle over Indiana's prohibition against establishing exclusive territories for beer sales. Bartholomew County Beverage Co. claimed in Marion County Superior Court last week that a price incentive implemented in 1993 by Miller Brewing Co. circumvents the prohibition. Milwaukee-based Miller pays wholesalers more for beer sold to retailers within assi-gned territories than for sales to retailers elsewhere. Consumer advocates con­tend such restrictions create monopolies, triggering higher prices for consumers. Alan Brown, an attorney representing Bartholomew, said Miller tried to limit his client's sales to adjoining counties when it implemented the price incentive, and was 'is tantamount to creating exclusive territories prohibited by state law and an Alcoholic Beverage Commission rule. He characterized the incentive as "Son of Beer Baron." Miller attorney RonaldGifford said Brown had the facts wrong. The brewer's price structure has been in place since 1993 and Bartholomew County Beverage continues to sell to retailers outside its territory, Gifford said. 
Televangelist Jim Bakker returns 
FORT MILL, S.C. 
Jim Bakker stepped from his shad­ow of shame to the spotlight of his for­mer glory. The deposed head of the PTL ministries returned Sunday to the former Heritage USA Christian com­
plex he founded to. eulogize Hen'y" 
Harnson, a longtime fnend and , staunch supporter. Harrison's wife, ·.. Susan, said her husband had request­ed Bakker's appearance when they planned for their funerals. Bakker was convicted in 1989 of defrauding thousands of his PTL followers who sent him at least 
$1,000 each in return for a promise they could stay at Heritage USA for three days and four nights every year for the rest of their lives. He resigned from the PTL in 1987. He was released from custody on Dec. 1 after four months under house arrest. He has been living in seclusion at a home in rural Henderson County. But on Sunday, it was almost as if he had never left his pulpit. The crowd gave Bakker two standing ovations as the preacher waved and blew kisses from the stage. Audience shouts of "We love you, Jim" and "Welcome back," began the 90-minute presentation as Bakker gave glimpses of prison life. 


Inner-city kids on visit to NO are urged to learn 
By WENDY GRZYWACZ 
News Writer 
At-risk, inner-city Hispanic students from Chicago were brought to campus last week­end with the hopes of getting them interested in higher edu­cation. 
The visit was sponsored by Campus Ministry and and a committee of Hispanic under­graduates. Approximately thir­ty junior high and high school students from St. Philomena's Parish in Chicago participated in the trip, the first of its kind at Notre Dame. 
The youth stayed with stu­dent hosts from Friday after­noon until Sunday. Their full schedule included events such as the Notre Dame hockey game, presentations by His­panic students and faculty, the ISO festival, mass at the Breen­Phillips chapel, and other recreational and spiritual activ­ities. 
"When you ask an urban kid about college, they think of staying in the city," said George Chaparro, youth direc­tor at St. Philomena's. "This visit shows them that there's something else out there for them." 
Many of the students "never knew college could be like this," he said. 
By sharing their back­
grounds, stories of how they got to Notre Dame, and their collegiate experiences, the His­panic student speakers helped to provide motivation for the youth, according to Tanya Ceja, a trip coordinator. 
"The trip is important be­cause the kids don't get too much encouragement for high­er education and it shows them how indispensible it really is," according to Manuel Za­marripa, an ND student who also helped to organize the visit. 
Since "everybody has their head set on succeeding," the trip made Camillie Roque, a high school junior, look for­ward to attending college. 
"It showed me what it would be like to have a big sister or brother on campus and the unity between Hispanics here," said Maritza Fontanez of her visit. 
Playing basketball with other students and talking with his host about the sports and aca­demics were some of fifteen­year-old Ben Diaz's favorite as­pects of the trip. 
Father Pat Neary of Campus Ministry and Father Jim Heyd of St. Philomena's, both Notre Dame alumni, helped to bring the students together. 
The participants hope to plan similar events with other parishes in the future. 
Watch for upcoming positions available on The Observer Staff 
Observer team announced 

Suzy Fry 
By LIZ FORAN 
Associate News Editor 
Sophomore Suzy Fry and ju­nior Beth Regan were ap­pointed to the position of Man­aging Editor, and junior Joseph Riley will serve again as Busi­ness Manager, Observer Edi­tor-in-Chief-elect John Lucas announced Sunday. 
Fry, a Farley Hall resident, is a Government and Interna­tional Relations major with a concentration in the Hesburgh Program in Public Policy, and is from San Diego, Calif. Fry has worked at The Observer for the last two years, spending the last year as Viewpoint Editor. 
Regan, a Saint Mary's student from Holy Cross Hall, is an English Writing and Political 
Beth Regan 

Science double major who hails from Lexington, Ky. Regan has worked at The Observer for three years, most recently serv­ing as Saint Mary's Editor. 
"Working with the Observer these past two years have shown me many aspects of the Notre Dame community not otherwise seen. 
It is my hope not only to enhace the coverage of these things, but also to provide a stronger editorial voice as well," said Fry. 
"I'm excited about the oppor­tunity to work with John Lucas and next year's General Board," Regan said. "Next year should bring changes that will make The Observer a better newspaper." 
Fry and Regan will share the 
Quake shakes Alaska 
Associated Press genson of the Tsunami Warning 
Center in Palmer. 
PALMER, Alaska 

A strong earthquake rattled a The quake, which struck at wide area of south-central 11:14 a.m., was felt over an Alaska on Sunday. There were area that includes Homer, Ke­no immediate reports of dam­nai, Anchorage and Kodiak, age or injuries. Jorgenson said. Much of the 
The quake had a magnitude of area is sparsely populated. 
6.2 and was centered in Cook An earthquake with a magni­Inlet about 180 miles southwest tude of 6 can cause heavy dam­of Anchorage, said Wayne Jor-age. 
Joseph Riley 
position until next fall, when Fry plans to study in London. 
The Managing Editor is ulti­mately responsible for the edi­torial content and daily produc­tion of the newspaper. 
Riley, a Dillon Hall resident, is from Erie, Pennsylvania and is a Finance and Computer Applications double major. 
"I'm excited to have the op­portunity to manage The Ob­server's finances for a second year," Riley said. "We have a lot of ideas to continue to im­prove the newspaper." 
The business manager over­sees the operations board and maintains the financial budget of the newspaper. 
Regan and Fry will begin in their new position immediately after Spring Break. 
If you see news happening, call The Observer 631-5323 

HOURS: 

MoOOay-Tlmday  11 :00 am. ­1:00 am.  
Fri!ay &Saturday  11 :00 am. -3:00am  
SuOOay  Nooo -1:00 am  

r --luncnpeG'iar -, r -fi;Tt; fline"1ilij -, r -7atekluGi !;ecraT -, r --on;t1" r;;g;--, I 1-10" Small II 1-16" Extra Large I I (9:00p.m. until closing) I I One Topping I I 2Topping Pizza II Two Toppings I I 1-14" Large I 
1Topping Pizza 
I 

I $595.~. II I I $59.~ I I One Topping I 
I -II -I I I I $119: I 
L 
A1JditJot161 Toppillfis 95c each Not ralid with any other coup011 I I Additions/ Toppifllll $1.251i8Ch. Not vafjJI with 8J1Y other C01JfJ011 I LAddili1J1181 ToppiiiiJS 95c sacil. Not md with •ny othtir 
coupon.
------...~-------... 
page4 

The Observer • NEWS Monday, February 13, 1995 
Award 
continued from page I 

whose name she recently listed in a celebrity questionaire un­der the category, "Which living person do you most despise?" Adept in her role as a torn in the apartheid establishment's side, she averaged 200 palia­mentary questions -most of them embarrassing to the gov­ernment -per session. In a widely quoted 1968 speech she addressed her parliamentary colleagues' evident conviction that the source of South African violence was in the black com­munity and not in the racist state. "I say that uprooting 
March 
continued from page I 

Erica Effler, president of Pax Christi, who co-sponsored the march, said a group protesters entered the building through the front door, where they were met by representatives of the administration. Effler said the group was asked to leave. 
"We weren't there to break rules, so we peacefully turned around and left," said Effier. 
Assistant Director of Notre Dame Security Phil Johnson said there were no there were no other problems or incidents stemming from the protest. 
The march was not an autho­rized demonstration, said Johnson. Demonstrators were asked to leave the building, so business would not be dis­turbed, he said. 
Marchers were impressed by people at dawn or on a wintry evening in a shanty town, and bundling women and children into police vans is a violence ... The denial of collective bargaining rights and the low wages that result are a vio­lence. I say that all the power that circumvent the normal civil liberties are a violence." 
In addition to her work in parliament, Suzman became in­ternationally known as an ad­vocate for South Africa's nu­merous political prisoners. It was in this capacity that she first met Nelson Mandela, now South Africa's president, in 1967. The two remain close friends, and he has written a lowing introduction to her memoirs, "In No Uncertain Terms," recently published by 
the turnout. "This is much big­ger, much better than anyone expected," said senior Roberto Guerra. "It's good to see faculty support here, and we need to see more." 
Effier said that she hopes this march will influence University officials towards a decision to recognize GLND/SMC. 
"We are ever hopeful that the administration will change its mind," she said. 
"We'll keep doing this as long as it takes," said Effier. "It's up to them." News of Friday's 
events  spawned  a  small  
counter-protest.  
Four people stood  on  the  

steps of the Administration Building in the midst of the other marchers. 
The counter-protesters car­ried signs reading "Love the sinner, oppose the sin," and "God's Law above man's plea­sure." 
No conflict between the two groups was reported. 
Alfred Knopf. 
Despite her vehement oppo­sition to apartheid, Suzman was sometimes criticized for her anomalously affluent lifestyle, her unwillingness to endorse international sanc­tions, against South Africa, and her open admiration for British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, who was not widely regarded as a friend of the anti­apartheid movement. Nevertheless, as a Archbishop Desmond Tutu, who disagreed with Suzman's posifion on sanctions said recently, "She was extraordinarily courageous in standing up to the bullying of the racist and quite obnoxious government and the ruling class. I think she helped many to hold on to the hope that one day this tyranny would pass." 
The daughter of Lithuanian immigrants named Govronsky, Suzman was born Nov. 7, 1917, in Germiston, a small mining town near Johannesburg. The Gavronskys entered the cattle business and soon became prosperous. 
Helen was educated by Catholic nuns at Parktown Convent in Johannesburg and at the University of Witwa­tersrand, where he later be­came a part-time lecturer in economics and economic his­tory. In 1937, while studying at Witwatersrand, she met and married Dr. Moses Suzman, a Johannesburg physician. They have two daughters. 
Suzman holds 21 honorary degrees from colleges and uni­versities worldwide and re­ceived the United Nations Hu­man Rights Award in 1978. 

The Notre Dame award was established in 1992, in celebra­tion of the University's Sesqui­centennial, to honor persons "within and without the Catholic Church, citizens of every nation, whose religious faith has quickened learning, whose learning has engendered deeds, and whose deeds give witness to God's kingdom among us." 
The award has been given previously to Mother Theresa of Calcutta; former President Jimmy Carter and his wife, Rosalynn; and Jean Vanier, founder of the international L'Arche communities for the mentally handicapped. 
Preparing for the future 
A Saint Mary's student assists two area seventh graders on Hypatia Day, a day devoted to encouraging young women to pursue careers n the fields of math and science. 

~OBSERVER 
is now accepting applications for the 
1995-96 General Board 
Any full-time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. Please submit a three page statement ofintent with a resume to john Lucas by Wednesday, Feb. 15 at 5 p.m. For questions about·the application process or for more information about any position, call The Observer at 631-4541. 
NEWS EDITOR Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The News Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story and series ideas and is responsible for the content of the news section each day. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR Applicants should have editorial writing and editing skills and an ability to deal with the public. The Viewpoint Editor manages a staff of copy and layout editors and columnists and decides what letters will run each day. 
SPORTS EDITOR Applicants should have sports reporting, writing and editing skills. The Sports Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and special sections, arranges travel accommodations for reporting trips and is responsible for the content of the sports section each day. 
ACCENT EDITOR Applicants should have features writing and editing experience. The Accent Editor manages editors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas, and is responsible for the content of the Accent pages each day. 
PHOTO EDITOR Applicants should have photography and developing experience. The Photo Editor manages a staff of photographers and lab technicians and must work closely with News, Sports and Accent department editors in assigning pho­tographs. 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR Any full-time undergraduate student at Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. The editor manages Saint Mary's department heads, coordinates coverage with Notre Dame staff, generates story ideas on the Saint Mary's campus and is responsible for the Observer office at Saint Mary's. 
ADVERTISING MANAGER Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The Advertising Manager oversees an assistant and a staff of account executives and is responsible for generating advertising revenue. 
AD DESIGN MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of QuarkXpress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager oversees a staff of designers, works closely with advertising and marketing departments and is responsible for the design and layout of advertisements. 
PRODUCTION MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience, knowledge of QuarkXpress and design, layout and newspaper production experience. The Production Manager oversees a staff of night production designers and works closely with department staff on layout and design. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge of computer networking. The Systems Manager maintains and updates the Macintosh network and printers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system. 
OBSERVER MARKETING DIRECTOR Director will be responsible for generating new ideas and campaigns for advertis­ers. The marketing director will oversee one assistant and will work closely with Ad Design manager and account executives. Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and strong self-motivation. 
CONTROLLER Applicant must be a junior accounting major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. The Controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operating budget and taxes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and order transaction duties. 
Monday, February 13 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Murder Soldiers chase guerilla leaders in Mexico 
Opposition favored to win in election 
involved in divorce 
By ROXANA HEGEMAN Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS 

A bitter divorce involving a professional football star. Alle­gations of assault. The taint of drug-trafficking charges against a third person. And then a bloody multiple murder. 
No arrests have been made, and police are being meticu­lous, partly because of the ex­ample of the O.J. Simpson trial. 
At the center of the case is Bennie Thompson, a former New Orleans Saints player now with the Cleveland Browns. 
The bullet-riddled body of Thompson's ex-wife, Tangie Thompson, 28, was found Feb. 5 in her upscale home. Also killed were her fiance, Andrew White, 30, and the Thompsons' 3-year-old son Devyn. 
Thompson's lawyers issued a statement Friday saying he "is deeply distraught by any sug­gestion that he is in any way responsible for these brutal killings." 
They said they have tele­phone records and other evi­dence that will verify where he was at the time the murders are thought to have happened. 
Helatives found the victims in Tangie Thompson's two-story brick home in east New Or­leans, a newer section that grew in recent decades as the upwardly mobile fled the city's troubles. 
They found blood on the back door and the bodies in the den. Eaeh victim had multiple gun­shot wounds, even the little boy; police won't say how many times they were shot. 
The victims were not bound. There was no sign of struggle or foreed entry. 
By ANITA SNOW 
Associated Press 
SAN CRISTOBAL DE 
LAS CASAS, Mexico 

Government soldiers pursued guerrilla leaders into the jun­gles of southern Mexico on Sunday, sending dozens of peasants fleeing. No new vio­lence was reported. 
The government says it is try­ing to avoid confrontations, and Guatemala promised to assist the Mexican army by prevent­ing rebels from crossing the border. 
"In no way is this being treat­ed like a war," the Mexican Interior Ministry said in a state­ment. 
The government has por­trayed its troop movements as a police effort to enforce an arrest warrant, but military roadblocks prevented the entrance of medical supplies and food to impoverished Indian villages. 
Human rights groups ex­pressed concern that the army was planning a major offensive against the rebel Zapatista Na­tional Liberation Army. 
"We think that the army is preparing an offensive, that the soldiers are circling the Zapatistas with the intent of eliminating them," said Roger Maldenado of the human rights group Conpaz. 
Transport trucks and light armored vehicles begin rum­bling into rebel territory in the southern state of Chiapas after President Ernesto Zedillo an­nounced Thursday that he had ordered the arrest of top rebel leaders, including the ski­masked Zapatista spokesman, Subcomandante Marcos. 
Zedillo said authorities had discovered that the Zapatistas "were preparing new acts of violence and terrorism in the state and other parts of the re­public." 
One military officer was killed 

While its troops tried to stamp out rebels in the south, Mexico's government faced a peaceful challenge Sunday in the heartland, where an opposition party was favored to win control of a major state and the country's second-largest city. 
Jalisco, an industrial and farming sta.te famed ~s the home of mariachi music, would be. the largest state ever "'on by a Mexican opposition party. '" 
Voters were choosing a governor and mayors of 124 cities, including Guadalajara, as well as a new state congress. 
Sunday's vote was seen as a test of new President Ernesto Zedillo'f:l pledge of fair elec­tions. and of a clear divide between th¢ govern· ment and the party that has ruled ~e~co for 66 yefl.fS, 
"Nobody will believe in anything the officials say, neither inside nor outside the country" ifthe election is unfair, said Carlos Castillo Peraza, president of the conservative National Action P~. or PAN. He threatened civil di$pbQdi.enceifhis party loses by fraud. ···· 
Several polls give Alberto Cardenas of the PAN a lead of 10 to 20 percentage points over Eugenio Ruiz Orozco of the Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRJ. 
Ten parties were contending. but tlle PRJ and PAN have dominated the polls. .. ·PAN leaders say victory in JaUseo could help tbem win all three other gubernator~al elections this year, loosening the governing party's hold on power. The PRI admits to losing only two state elections since it was formed in 1929 as an arm of the government. 
Parties and election officials reported only scattered problems at ballot boxes Sunday across the state of 5.5 million people in west­central Mexico. Turnout was estimated at 60 percent to 70 percent by the close of polls. First official returns were not expected until early Monday. 
The PRI has been hurt by the sudden devalua· tion of Mexico's currency in December that slashed the buying power of nearly all Mexicans overnight. 
Many in Guadalajara also are angry about a 1992 sewage explosion blamed on the govern­ment that killed more than 200 people and about a tide of violent crimes. including the still· n11solved 1993 murder of the city's Roman Catholic cardinal. 
"With the government in crisis, with the people angry, that's a perfect combination for a party .that's looking for an opportunity," said Juan Molinar Horcasitas. a political analyst from the College of Mexico in Mexico City. 
A few scattered violations of election law were reported. The most serious case reported by the state electoral commission was the theft of bal­lots from a polling place in rural Ixtlahuacan de los Membrlllos south of Guadalajara Sunday morning. 
The election took place three days after the government sent thousands of troops Into terri· tory held by Indian rebels in southern Mexico, terming it a non-violent police action "to restore the state of law." 
by an uni 
enti Ie e Zapatistas began 
1g ting ter the army began its advance on Jan. 1, 1994, demanding on Thursday. rights and services for the re­
On Sunday, in the isolated vil­gion's impoverished Indians. lage of Nueva Providencia, heli­More than 145 people were copters landed and soldiers killed before a cease-fire was patrolled the brush that has declared 12 days later. been Zapatista territory for Since Zedillo's announcement most of the past year. Thursday, authorities have 
Some peasants in the village, raided at least three houses, about 90 miles east of San seized an assortment of Cristobal, said they decided to weapons and arrested about 30 stay. people, including three sus­
"If the army is going to kill pected rebel leaders. us, better that they kill us in The International Red Cross our own homes." said announced during the weekend Hernando Vazquez Hernandez. that it was withdrawing from Guadalupe Tepeyac because soldiers' takeover of the hospi­tal compromised the group's neutrality. 
The Interior Ministry insists human rights are being re­spected but has allowed neither rights activists nor journalists access to the area. 
There has been no communi­cation from the Zapatistas since Zedillo identified Marcos as the son of a well-to-do business­man from the northern city of Tampico and sent troops to ar­rest him. 
1:; c ~~ Sophomores ~ .• ~ Seniors Freshmen § 1111 ~ Juniors 
~~s~v 

Maximizing Academic Performance in Undergraduate Study 
(A workshop using the insights of sportpsychology) 
This is a brief workshop designed to provide undergraduate students in any discipline with techniques often used in sport psychology to help you achieve yourbest academic performance. 
It will focus on techniques for: 
•
improving your academic productivity

•
dealing with anxiety contagion from other students during high-stress times (e.g. midterms, finals) 

•
handling performance anxiety in writing papers, making presentations, and taking exams 

•
improving your ability to pace yourselfin your academic studies 

•
dealing with academic setbacks 

•
getting effective rest and avoiding academic burnout 

•
focusing your energy more quickly 


Presented by: 

Dominic 0. Vachon Ph.D. 
StaffPsychologist, University Counseling Center 
Wednesday, February 15, 1995 12:15 p.m. -1:00 p.m. (Bring your lunch!) LaFortune Student Center 

Notre Dame Room, 2"d Floor Sponsored by the University counseling Center 
Monday, February 13, 1995
page6 The Observer • NEWS 
Terrorist's extradition focus of religious group 
By KATHY GANNON 
Associated Press 

ISLAMABAD, Pakistan 
Madonna and Michael Jack­son are terrorists just as much as people who set off bombs, and should be brought to Pak­istan for trial, a small but influ­ential Pakistani religious party demanded Sunday. 
The demand appeared to be a reaction to the extradition of Ramzi Yousef, a suspect in the World Trade Center bombing. 
"Michael Jackson and Madonna are the torch bearers of American society, their cul­tural and social values ... that are destroying humanity," said Nematullah Khan, a divisional chief of the anti-American Party of Islam group. 
"They are ruining the lives of thousands of Muslims and lead­ing them to destruction, away from their religion, ethics and morality," he said. 
"Terrorists are not just those who set off bombs; they are also those who hurt others feel­ings," he said. 
Yousef, described as the mas­termind of the World Trade Center bombing, was arrested last week at an Islamabad hotel and brought to New York on a 
U.S. government plane. .. 
Khan also called on Britain and Sweden to extradite au­thors Salman Rushdie and Taslima Nasrin, both sentenced to death by fundamentalist Muslims for insulting Islam. 
Jamaat-e-Islami typically wins only three or four Parliamentary seats in Pakistan's elections. But politi­cal leaders are wary of the group's ability to mobilize pub­lic opinion. 
It controls thousands of Mus­lim clerics who wield influence over Pakistan's poor and illit­erate, most of whom are devout Muslims. 
Many believe Yousefs arrest last week was done quietly be­cause Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto feared a backlash from fundamentalist Muslims. 
Khan warned Ms. Bhutto against extraditing Mir Aimal Kansi, suspected of shooting two CIA employees outside the agency's Virginia headquarters in January 1993. 
Pakistani and American intel­ligence agents have been searching for Kansi since he entered Pakistan after the shootings. 

Celebrate afriend's 
birthday with a special Observer Ad 
Women attorneys say discrimination prevails 
By RICHARD CARELLI 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 
From every part of the coun­try, women attorneys offered the same bleak assessment: Law remains a male-dominat­ed profession where discrimination and harassment trip women attorneys hoping to reach the top. 
"I don't believe we've come very far," said Tula Kavadias, a lawyer from Crown Point, Ind. "Progress has been insignificant and inconsequen­tial." 
Miami lawyer Gillian Free­man testified about the "alarming amount of sexual harassment" that pervades the Florida Bar. 
"Success isn't reflected in the numbers yet," said Dawn Schock, a Long Beach, Calif., lawyer. 
And Denver lawyer Diane Poole agreed. "There's been limited progress beyond the entry level." 
It's been seven years since the American Bar Association's Commission on Women in the Profession won a commitment from the nation's largest group of lawyers to the "full integra­tion and equal participation of women in the legal profes­sion." 
That pledge came after the 
commission reported that gen­
der bias had infected law 
schools, law firms and the 
courts. 
"You could take the 1988 re­
port, change the statistics and 
no one would notice it was an old document," New York lawyer Lynn Hecht Schafran told the commission during a daylong status hearing at the ABA's national convention over the weekend. 

But not all the news is bad, the witnesses said. Since 1993, two women have taken seats on the U.S. Supreme Court and the Justice Department's two top officials are Attorney General Janet Reno and Deputy Jamie Gorelick. 
Even the 370,000-lawyer ABA is led by women. Roberta Cooper Ramo, an attorney in Albuquerque, N.M., becomes the ABA's first woman presi­dent in August and Tallahassee, Fla., lawyer Martha Barnett now chairs its policy-making House of Delegates. 
Women lawyers comprise 25 percent of the profession, and the proportion of female stu­dents at the nation's law schools is approaching 50 per­cent. 
"There certainly is a glass 
ceiling in place," said Schock. 
She reported that while 30 per­
cent of California's lawyers are 
women, only 7 percent have 
been promoted to law firm 
partnerships. 
Statistics, she said, don't sup­
port the often-sounded theories 
that the paucity of higher­
placed women lawyers results 
from their relative youth and 
their desire to work part-time. 
The same is true in Colorado, 
Poole said. "The stratification 
found in '88 persists today," 
she said. 

New book describes poets' love 
By RICHARD LORANT Associated Press 

BOSTON 
He was a budding poet when he first wrote to her in 1845. Her verse had made her fa­mous, but it couldn't free her from the pain that confined her to a darkened room in London. 
Their secret courtship, nur­tured by hundreds of letters, is the stuff of legend. "How do I love thee? Let me count the ways," she wrote in "Sonnets from the Portuguese," a vol­ume about their growing love. 
Now a biography published just before Valentine's Day takes a fresh look at the love and marriage of Victorian poets Elizabeth Barrett and Robert Browning. 
And it offers a new theory: that Barrett's father prohibited his children from marrying be­cause they were descended, in part, from black slaves. 
Barrett and Browning's defi­ance of the marriage ban ­her choice of love over death, as the author puts it -is what made their romance so com­pelling. 
The 382-page book, "Dared 
and Done: The Marriage of 
Elizabeth Barrett and Robert 
Browning," (Alfred A. Knopf, 
$30), was published Friday. It 
was written by Julia Markus, 
head of the creative writing 
program at Hofstra University 
in Hempstead, N.Y. 

It begins the same way as the 
couple's courtship. 

ATTENTION GRADUATE STUDENTS The current Graduate Student Union President and Vice President will be holding an informational session on Monday, February 13 from 8 to 9:30p.m. in the Foster Room in LaFortune. Topics of discussion include: budget requirements, work load and other requirements of the office holders. The Graduate Student Union is searching for interested candidates to run for the 1995.-96 President and Vice ..President positions. Successful candidates will possess: *Excellent communication skills *Ability to work independently or as a member of a team. *A desire to protect and improve the quality of graduate student life, in all its complexity *A commitment to the democratic process, upon which the GSU is established Previous officers have been compensated with a stipend of $1,500 per year, upon the successful completion of their terms. For more information, please contact the GSU office at 631-6963 or e-mail Notre.Dame.GSU 1 @nd.edu. CALENDAR OF EVENTS Feb. 13... Information Session, 8 to 9:30p.m. (Foster Room in LaFortune) Feb 22.. . Submission deadline for candidates March 6 ... Pre,election, 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. (GSU Office, 219 LaFortune) March 7 ... Pre,election, 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. (GSU Office, 219 LaFortune) March 7 ... Debate , 8 to 9:30p.m. (Foster Room in LaFortune) March 8 ... General Election, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. , Hesburgh Library Concourse/ Arts & Letters ,Nieuwland Science 1st floor lobby/Science ,Cushing Hall/Engineering Please note that the site of the Debate has been changed from the ND Room to the Foster Room. Also, the Pre,election permits all graduate students who can not make the General Election day to vote. On the General Election Day you must go to the site which includes your department.  

page 7 

Monday, February 13, 1995 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Leftists disrupt service in Germany Gingrich 
By TERRENCE PETTY tions, has never marked a someone is trivializing the fire­moral to firebomb Dresden, a World War II event on such a bombing. city with little military signifi­
Associated Press 
grand scale. When a man spotted an el­cance. 
DHESDEN, Germany Britain's Duke of Kent, a derly woman carrying an anti­Many Germans see the fire­
Ten young leftists disrupted a cousin of Queen Elizabeth II, Kohl poster. he shouted, bombing as a war crime perpe­Sunday prayer service marking arrives Monday for a wreath­"Trample the old cow to trated by Sir Arthur Harris, the 50th anniversary of Dres­laying ceremony at Dresden's death!" wartime head of Britain's 
Another hollered, "Go Bomber Command. The United
den's destruction by British and main cemetery, where fire­to 
U.S. bombers, rushing the altar bombing victims lie. Russia where you belong!" The States is usually spared criti­
and shouting "Germans were American and British diplo­woman yelled for police as cism because the B-17s caused 
the criminals, not the victims." mats and military brass will someone grabbed her poster far less damage. 
Chancellor Helmut Kohl and also be on hand. Orchestras will and threw it to the ground. Many Britons defend Harris other dignitaries seated in the play classical requiems. Histori­Dresden was leveled by two and counter that Hitler's Luft­cathedral watched in disbelief ans, poets and novelists plan formations of British Lancasters waffe laid waste to Coventry 
and numerous other British
as the protesters tried to unfurl readings and lectures. during the night of Feb. 13 and 
a banner and tossed leaflets But not everyone is happy. by American B-17 bombers in a cities. saying that commemorating the Outside the Dresden Cathe­Feb. 14 daylight raid. The Sunday's prayer service was 
Dresden firebombing insults dral, a group of Catholics attack has been likened to an attempt to heal 50-year-old Jews murdered at Auschwitz. protested that too much atten­Hiroshima because of the car­wounds. It was conducted joint­Church ushers ejected them tion was being paid to German nage and civilian casualties. ly by Dresden Roman Catholic after a seuffie. civilians killed a half century The British raids unleashed a Bishop Joachim Reinelt, Bishop The disturbance aptly illus­ago -and too little to people firestorm that swallowed most Simorr Barrington-Ward of of Dresden's famed architec­Coveniry and Bishop Simon von
trated the moral complexities of dying in Chechnya today. paying homage to an estimated Unlike the leftists who caused tural splendors, including the Tichvin of St. Petersburg, 35,000 Germans who died in the stir inside the cathedral, 18th-century Church Of Our Russia. 
At the front of the aitar,
the air raids that leveled this these were mainly middle-aged Lady, the 16th-century Dresden 
city on Feb. 13-14, 1945. Catholics quietly carrying Palace and the Semper Opera. youths stood with wooden Church and government ob­posters demanding that Kohl Bodies charred beyond recog­crosses bearing the names of servances portray Dresdeners tell his friend, Russian Presi­nition lay in city streets and some of the hundreds of cities dent Boris Yeltsin, to leave floated in fountains, where peo­where civilians were targeted
not as vietims of the World War 
II Allies but of a war begun by Chechnya alone. ple had sought vainly to escape during World War II. 
The demonstrators received the flames. During a prayer, Barrington­
their own country. The anniv~rsary is being ob­icy stares from about 100 Dres­More corpses dangled from Ward asked that leaders served in lavish style. The deners waiting to greet Kohl, treetops. around the world try harder to 
German government, snubbed which was not surprising. Many The world has argued for five "bring an end to warfare, hate at some Allied commemora-don't like it when they think decades whether it was im-and destruction." 
MANDATORY MEETING 
For all those interested in running for either Class Office or Student Senate or Off Campus Co-Presidents 
Monday, February 13, 19 9 5 

7:30p.m. Foster Room 3rd Floor LaFortune 


~ PERI ARNOLD 
PROFESSOR OF GOVERNMENT 
SPEAKS ON 

''DO WE REALLY NEED GOVERNMENT?'' 
Wednesday, February 15 7:00p.m. at St. Edward's Hall 

criticized by Iranians 
Associated Press 
NICOSIA. Cyprus H o u s e Speaker Newt Gin­grich's call for the over­


throw of the Gingrich Iranian gov­ernment was "stupid" and showed a "lack of mental equi­librium," Iranian officials said Sunday. "The idea of attempting to change the Islamic system of government in Iran is stupid," the speaker of Iran's parlia­ment, Ali Akbar Nateq-Nouri, 
was quoted by the official Is­
lamic Republic News Agency as 
saying. 

Mahmoud Mohammadi, 
spokesman for Iran's foreign 
ministry, said Gingrich's re­
marks betrayed a "lack of men­
tal equilibrium," according to 
the news agency, monitored in 
Cyprus. 
Gingrich said last week that 
the United States should ulti­
mately aim to topple the 
Islamic fundamentalist regime 
in Tehran to combat the 
Islamic extremism spreading 
through the Muslim world and ·threatening the West. 
The United States lists Iran as 
a rogue state that sponsors ter­
rorism and is striving, with lim­
ited success, to isolate it eco­
nomically to curb a major rear­
mament program under way. 
Iranian officials said several 
million people shouting "Death 
to America" marched through 
the streets of Tehran on Satur­
day to celebrate the 16th an­
niversary of the founding of the 
Islamic republic after the over­
throw of the U.S.-backed dicta­
tor, Shah Mohammad Reza 
Pahlavi. 
Join e Observer staff 

CAMPUSES 
page 8 Monday, February 13, 1995 
Berkeley works to achieve faculty gender balance 
By KATHY HAUSMANN Assistant Campuses Editor 

The number of women faculty members at UC Berkeley has increased with substantial gains in last four years. 
More women are now holding tenured faculty positions at the University of California at Berkeley, in large part due to early retirements of senior fac­ulty members, many of whom were men. 
The ratio of women to men in faculty positions has grown by more than one percent per year since 1990. 
In the 1990-91 academic year, only 16 percent of the fac­ulty were women. Currently, 303 of 1 ,428 faculty members are women, accounting for 21 percent of the faculty. 
"Women here were excited when we hit the teens; now we're hitting one-fifth," said Christina Maslach, faculty advi­sor on the status of women and a professor of social psychol­ogy. 
The percent of minority fac­ulty has also grown in the past four years, rising from 11.8 percent of the total faculty in 1990 to 14.4 percent in 1994. Most of those gains occurred among minority women pro­fessors. 
"We have a window of oppor­tunity here to make a differ­ence in gender and ethnic bal­ance, and the kind of trend you would hope to see is happen­ing," said Maslach. 
Maslach said she is particu-

Wheaton institutes unique 
graduation requirement 
By KATHY HAUSMANN Assistant Campuses Editor 

Wheaton College is beginning a new program that will require its students to consider what happens outside of the classroom. 
The faculty approved a new graduation requirement that compels all students to reflect, in writing, upon at least one out-of-class learning expe­rience. 
Under the "Wheaton Work and Public Service Record" approved by the Wheaton fac­ulty, all graduates will be required to participate in a sig­nificant extracurricular learn­ing experience -a summer job, an internship, volunteer position, or campus leadersqip role -and relate it to their academic studies and life plans. 
The service record, which builds on a decade of research in linking work and learning, which have previously been viewed as mutually exclusive, is unique in higher education. 
While many other universities may mandate fulfillment of an internship or community ser­vice component to graduate, only Wheaton requires students to think about the experience through a formal evaluation process, which includes setting goals, writing a reflective essay on the experience, and a per­formance assessment com­pleted by their supervisor. 
"It's not enough for us, as ed­ucators, to simply point out the connections between the liberal arts and society. Students need to make their own connections between the classroom and life, and the required second tran­script will help them do that," says Wheaton President Dale Marshall. 
"Liberal arts at Wheaton is about developing the critical thinking and life-long learning skills that help people live full lives in a world of rapid changes and make a positive impact on society." 
The combined processes of goal-setting, participating in a performance evaluation, and composing a reflective essay about what was learned does more than simply document what happened. The writing process encourages students to apply the critical thinking and evaluation skills developed through academic scholarship to "real-life" situations and reinforces the need for such skills outside of academia, he said. 
The new graduation require­ment will be coordinated by the college's Filene Center for Work and Learning, being that it is uniquely suited to institut­ing the college's new learning model. Established in 1986, the Center has employed its work and reflection model in helping more than half Wheaton's stu­dents make the most of intern­snips, volunteer service and part-time jobs. 

Hearing dog aids students at Appalachian State 
By MARCY DINIUS Campuses Editor 

At Appalachian State University, senior Jason Graves was not sure of how he would be able to perform many of his daily activities, much less con­tinue his music major after he was stricken by sudden total hearing loss in spri.ng 1993. Yet thanks to his new compan­ion Beamer, a specially-trained hearing dog, Graves has been able to resume his daily life as well as continue his music com­position studies with the aid of a dog that was rescued just minutes from being put to sleep in a pound. 
Beamer was trained for three a telephone, the doorbell, an alarm clock, and fire alarms before he began "hearing" for Graves. 
So that Graves could continue his studies in music composi­tion, professors had to adapt some of his course work to accommodate his hearing impairment. · 
As for Beamer, he seems to enjoy Graves' musical talent. "He really likes the music. He goes to sleep when I play," Graves said. 
While writing a piece for the marimba in the music building, Graves decided to take a short nap during a break, only to awake having lost all of his hearing. Doctors are unsure if larly encouraged by where the changes are occurring. Women are gaining at tenured levels rather than just among the ranks of new, young professors who have not yet earned tenure. 
One-third of associate profes­sors -the first tenured level ­are women. At the level of full professor, 14 percent are women. 
Overall, the percentage of tenured faculty who are women has gone from 13 to 18 percent in the past four years. Faculty from minority groups has risen to 12.5 percent of all tenured faculty, up from 10 percent in 1990. 
"That's not to say we've fin­ished the process and can go back to some other business. 
WSU trades teachers with local schools 
By KATHLEEN BRANNOCK 
News Writer 

In compliance with a new Washington state mandate that requires college faculty who in­struct teacher preparation courses must regularly teach in a K-12 classroom, Washington State University has established a new Educator Exchange Program in which college facul­ty teach in area schools and local K-12 teachers teach courses at the university. 
"This exchange has enhanced the educational experience of both the kids at Sunnyside (Elementary School) and the fu­ture teachers at WSU," said Darcy Miller, an assistant professor of special education in the College of Education. 
Miller's husband, Michael Herpel, is a special education teacher at the local Sunnyside (Elementary School) in Pullman, Wash. Herpel will team-teach teacher preparation courses this semester at WSU with Miller as well as appear in panel discussions. 
"This exchange has enhanced the educational experience of both the kids at Sunnyside and the future teachers at WSU," Miller said. She also saw advantage by being able to practicum students from her class at the university putting what was discussed in class into actual practice with stu­dents at Sunnyside. 
From her experiences, Miller has written a new handbook in conjunction with Herpel for practicum students in special education at WSU who are in the classroom as part of their preparation to teach. This handbook establishes the duties of both WSU education students and of the K-12 teachers in addition to linking students' course work with their experi­ence in the classroom. The handbook is also available to other school districts and uni­versities via the World Wide Web server in WSU's College of Education. 
"I absolutely love it," Miller stated. "I love working with the children. The contact with those kids inspires me. I always bring back great teach­ing ideas-anecdotes, exam­ples, questions-for my WSU class. That's how this partner­ship flows over to enrich my Work still needs to be done," she said. 
Compared to other leading universities, UC Berkeley has moved ahead on gender bal­ance. 
For instance, at the University of Michigan, 14 per­cent of the tenured faculty is female, Harvard's tenured fac­ulty is 8.8 percent female and Stanford's is 11 percent female. 
The nine-campus UC system instituted voluntary early re­tirement incentives in three of the last four years. Subsequently, the number of male professors has declined by 276, while the number of female professors has grown by 33. 
In addition to the effects of early retirement, the university has hired a number of new fe­male professors at the tenured level, people who had already published and were well­launched toward establishing themselves in their fields. 

"We're getting top people, and they are becoming more di­verse," said Maslach. "There's no reason that the cream of the crop should always look white and male." 
In contrast to these steady changes among the faculty as a whole, some departments on campus have experienced a vir­tual transformation in gender balance. 
The department of an­thropology, for instance, which was predominately male four years ago, now has a 50-50 ra­tio of men to women. 

vorite book nominations from faculty and staff. The committee then selected 48 titles for Think-Read, an undergraduate list of uur~quired readhig. The list was introduced to incoming stu­dentsto encourage them toread one non-required book a month for four years, 
Now the Think-Read project is being adapted for development into a natiottal book promotion campaign. The Brown Bookstore ag~l the A · Q;.Book Center in Denver are part of the initial test pl'6giam. l tests are successful, there are plans to solicit publishers for their support in helping make Think-Read a national campaign. . Jjrown's own Think-Read program will solicit nominations for qp9kS from ~tudents as well as faculty and staff. Nominations Iliay be based on personal enjoyment and significance rather than strictly on scholarly merit. 
A. selection committee will include eight faculty members from ev¢.cy Brown discipline, one member from the University Library att9 one mfill:lber from the Brown Bookstore. Each member of the committee will pick five titles from the nominations to com­plete Brown's Think-Read list. In April, bookmarks, posters and pamphlets will announce the final list to the Brown community. 
Department of Public Safety is warning students h"'""'c;..,;.,,., phone calls which have been circulating around 
director of the department, commented that the are "not a new thing," although they have increased in nUtn~~r the pi)St couple of weeks. m,.,,....,.,t•.i · the calls have been received in women's dor­very·active in trying·to resolve this problem," 
and a modem-equipped computer, students ~th fellow scholars in liberal arts cours­
iv..:r.,u;.,., are ready to abandon their campuses for the computer technology is changing the face of 
Chronicle of Higher Education, already a Tenn;ess>ee pt'tJfe;ssc•r has taught his course by electronic mail fro~ home w}We recovering from hip surgery; at Wooster stu­d sdebate i~sues via computer billboards; and at Kansas 
$1"~,tdel),t p(l.pers are available on the Internet. 
Uriiversity of Hawaii is among the institutions with classes where multimedia presentations have replaced the traditional term papers ~nd text hooks are available as text (and graphics) 
files. ···· 

. rklng O]lline. is really useful. For certain activities, it is far 
e effective}' Discussions that require review of data can be handled efficiently via computer, for example, and allows partic­ipathm that would not otherwise be possible." Two of his gradu­ate seminar students "attended" class from the Bh! Island and 
----------~-----------------· ----·--------­

VIEWPOINT 
Monday,February 13, 1995 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRJ-: DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Luca; Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................Suzann~ Fry Ad Design Manager...................... Ryan Maylayter Spons Ediwr .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nunnery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor.. ..................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director...............Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor...............Eiiubeth Regan Comroller.....................•............... Kris£en Manina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du l..i!r and Saint MJry's College. It dues nut necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either insrifution. ThC' news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent lht" opinion of 1hc majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Ediror, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commcntaric~. lcm:rs and Inside Columns present the views of rhc: authors, and nm necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Sainr Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The: free expression of varying llpinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chil'f 631-4542 Managing Editor/Vicwpoinl 631-4541 Sports 631-4543 News/Photo 631-5323 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 G<•nerallnformation 631-7471 
• WINTER OF MY DISCONTENT 
Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 Office Manager 631-7471 Fax 631-6927 E-Mail Observer. Viewpoint.l@nd.edu Unix observcr@boron.helios.nd.edu 
ND politics mean fraudulent campaign promises 
Well another student government election has come and gone and soon we'll all be feeling the effects and ramilications of our collective decision of this past week. 
Watching our beloved student democracy in action always renews my faith not only in the underlying republican principles on which our society is based but also in humanity itself. 
Yeah, right. 

Having just endured my second Notre Dame Student Body Presidency election campaign I am forced to ask myself the question "is there a more frivolous and superficial process known to man"? Granted almost all democratic elections have a healthy degree of artilicially and overwrought ambition in them, but ND politics seem to take these inherent flaws to a new extreme. 
Perhaps the most striking feature of our student government elections is the incompatibility of the rhetoric bandied about by the candidates with the reality of the job they are seeking. If one were to take the collective promises ofl'ered by the candidates at face value you would conclude that the job of student body president is among the most pivotal and potent posts available anywhere. According to the pre-election propaganda it would seem that duties and powers that are in fact divided amongst Student Affairs, the Board of Trustees, the Student Union Board, private corporations and a litany of other uni­
• 000NESBURY 
versity bureaucratic departments somehow all fall under the authority of student government. 
In the week before the ballots are cast student government is pur­portedly capable of liberating us from final exams, cutting deals with the FCC over assigned broadcast frequen­cies, holding Woodstock III at Stepan {with, of course, the Grateful Dead headlining), transforming the very na­ture of person-to-person relations on this campus, establishing some sort of bizarre off-campus student housing zone/security perimeter and quite pos­sibly beating NASA to the punch and landing the first human beings on Mars {OK... I don't think anybody actu­ally promised that last one but it was probably implied at some point). 
There is now a well defined trend­if not nascent tradition-of making borderline absurdist promises during the course of the SB presidential cam­paign which leads me to believe that one of two things-neither of them desirable-is going on within the minds of our candidates. 
The first possibility is that they are so under-informed and naive as to the actual nature of the office they are pursuing that they themselves believe that their hyperactive rhetoric can be translated into reality {e.g. as seems to have been the case with the sincere but in retrospect utterly silly promise or last year's winners, to bring the Dead to our campus). 
The other even less appealing possi­bility is that the office seekers are so possessed of ambition that they are willing to, like professional politicians so often do, simply tell people what they want to hear for the purpose of winning votes and padding their resumes for law school. 
Hence, we are offered an appealing choice between naivete and outright fraud-the only applicable word for the act of promising something you know you can not deliver. 
I must interject at this point that the 
5/R., I CAN'THEJ.P
IMPR/3SIVE 
NOTICING YOU
PRIJFITMM­
f!AV&N'TEJU[l('£JW
G!NP&R 
A 9AI.AI<YfOfl.Mt...
UNIT; NO? 
\
"NfJTHIN'fJifT 
ORPHAN5" 
COf.Jt.PBCA 
ReAL A10N/3Y 
MAOIIN~.' 

eventual victors in this year's election, Jonathan Patrick and Dennis McCarthy, offered perhaps the most realistic, pertinent and achievable platform of any ticket vying for office. Further, I don't mean my above observations as a personal attack on any individual participant in the cam­pus politics, merely as an expression of disgust with the process as a whole. 
Many of these aforementioned fan­tastic promises have had a sort of "bread and circuses" quality to them. Rather than attempting to deal with issues of substance on which student government could be a constructive voice, there is an emerging pattern of simply promising ever more elaborate forms of amusement and "fun" {a pri­mary, yet nebulous buzz word of the last two elections). 
There seems to be this growing per­ception that student government's 
' Hence, we are offered an 
appealing choice between naivete and outright fraud-the only applicable word for the act of promising something you know you can not deliver.' 
prime responsibility is to improve individual social lives and entertain­ment options. This is pure foolishness since "fun" is both a highly relative and intensely individualistic matter which no amount of student gov­ernment effort and financial ex­penditure can insure. 
In the future I would rather have those seeking elected office formulate well thought out positions on the true issues facing this community {i.e. the abominable state of gender relations, the lack of communication between the administration and students, the role and rights of GLND/SMC and the 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
relative isolation of this University from the surrounding community) than hear more prattle about bringing "fun" to campus. 
I hold that student government, in both theory and in its constrained incarnation here at ND, is most effec­tive when used as a conduit for com­munications between the student body and the administration, as a vehicle for presenting our concerns and as an instrument for fostering mutual respect between faculty, students and administrators. 
Student government lapses into ir­relevance and irresponsibility when it conducts itself as an over funded party planning commission, a haven for individuals looking to pad their transcripts and/or a mostly ceremoni­al body used as a mere tool for University public relations {e.g. just open the promotional brochure to a certain page and see a picture of the Pres and VP in front of the Dome, etc.). 
In terms of demonstrable authority the student body presidency is an almost impotent office; every action is subject to veto by the administration and I wouldn't put it past Student Affairs to shut down the entire opera­tion if they were ever given sufficient provocation. However, the job in ques­tion is also the most visible and poten­tially vocal position available to an undergraduate at this university. 
Thus if properly used as a "bully pulpit," the presidency offers the potential for considerable influence. JP and Dennis campaigned and won upon the platform of becoming the "Voice of ND." I wish them every suc­cess in their effort to transform stu­dent government from a breeding ground of cynicism into a serious advocate for our interests and con­cerns. 
Christopher Kratovil's column 
appears every other Monday. He  can  
be  reached  via  e-mail  at  
Christopher.D. KratotJi/.l@nd.edu  

• QUOTE Of THE DAY 
''The Decepticons must never be allowed to take control of the earth!" 
-Optimus Prime 
-----~--------~ 
VIEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, February 13, 1995 
• lETTERS TO THE EnnOil 

Gay and lesbian debate continues 
Alums and GLND/SMC win with press coverage, organization 
Dear Editor: to describe us. Last week The Boston newsletters each year. We sponsor that we challenge the two schools' anti­
Approximately 50 gay and lesbian ND Globe reported on Dennis Moore's com­regional events, host gay alumni/ae gay attitudes and policies because it is and SMC alumni celebrated the first ments about the university not being pregame tailgate barbecues and cele­neither good theology to pity us, nor Winter Party on Jan. 29th, hosted by the able to work with the organization brate holiday parties with other Catholic good psychology to view our sexual Chicago Chapter of the Gay and Lesbian [GLND/SMC] without "seeming to sanc­college alums from Georgetown, Holy orientation as pathology. Becoming Alumni/ae of Notre Dame and Saint tion a lifestyle that the church opposes." Cross and BC. GALAND/SMC participates more visible and vocal within ND/SMC Mary's College. Mr. Moore's disingenuous language in the Gay Pride parades in New York, communities helps the many people of 
Attending this event we learned of the and the administration's recent action Boston and Chicago and will participate goodwill to know us. We are certain that university's action to bar the gay student may explain why our alma mater ranks next month in the St. Patrick's Day Notre Dame and St. Mary's will find the group from meeting in the counseling among the 20 worst major colleges and Parade in Cambridge, Mass. right way to value and respect her gay center. When the Associated Press universities in the country for its treat­We were in the 1993 March on sons and daughters. transmitted the story nationwide, many ment of gay students, according to The Washington, carrying the green and In the meantime, spokesmen for the more of us read this news in the Chicago Princeton Review. This reputation is dis­gold banner "Lesbian and Gay Fighting university can help matters by dropping Tribune, Boston Globe, and Philadelphia graceful. Irish of Notre Dame and St. Mary's." We their snide shibboleths. There is no such Inquirer. Keep in mind, however, that the gay held the first·Gay Alumni/ae Reunion thing as the "gay lifestyle." Gay men and 
We cannot believe that university offi­and lesbian students are no longer alone Weekend last summer in South Bend lesbians belong to all socio-economic cials did not know about the gay student in the struggle. University and college and drew 50 gay alumni from coast to classes, regions and ethnic, religious group's meeting on campus for years. officials dare not consider her gay and coast. This year's reunion is scheduled and racial groups. We rarely fit those More importantly, what is wrong about lesbian students to be a four year, for Chicago the 23-25th of June. nasty stereotypes. GLND/SMC advertising its meeting loca­temporary nuisance: We gay and lesbian Our mission also includes sponsoring, We are your sons and daughters, tion in The Observer? Like everybody alumni/ae are now organized. directing and participating in activities­brothers and sisters, parents and else in the ND/SMC community, gay and Within two short years GALAND/SMC's that promote a positive lesbian and gay friends. We are here to stay. Never lesbian students need the freedom to be membership and mailing list has grown image: charitable, educational, spiritual again will the administration enjoy the visible. We are sad that our alma mater from 62 names to more than 450. Our and athletic. To this end, we increase convenience of our invisibility. plays hardball politics against her gay mission includes promoting solidarity the visibility of lesbian and gay sons and daughters. and friendship among lesbian, gay and alumni/ae throughout the more than 
On the other hand, we are outraged bisexual graduates, former students, 200 local Notre Dame and St. Mary's CHARLES COLBERT III that the Director of Public Relations and faculty, friends and parents. alumni/ae clubs nationwide. Class of'78 Information used contemptible language GALAND/SMC publishes several GALAND/SMC's membership insists 
MA 
Once again, Church and ND fail to properly address moral crises 
Dear Editor: With deep sadness and dismay, I learned of the recent expulsion of the Gay and Lesbian students from the Counseling Center by the administration. 
As a gay Notre Dame alum , I can remember the loneliness and isolation I felt on campus as I struggled to accept my sexuality and my commitment to a strong Christian belief. In time and with some life experience, I learned that the two are not mutually exclusive. In point of fact, they are correlative. How can one know and love God in the abstract, if one does not accept oneself and love another in the tangible reality of every day existence? Few of us are called to celibacy-even in the religious life, as the Church is now discovering. 
My real concern is for the present students on campus. The Administration's actions are cruel, inhumane, morally repugnant, and will probably cost lives. As someone who has been involved in AIDS education and prevention for 14 years and who addressed a group of Gay and Lesbian students on these issues at a meeting in the Counseling Center in 1988, I am seriously concerned about how they will acquire the information needed to protect themselves and those they love. AIDS is now the number one cause of death for Americans aged 22-44, so this information is vital to all students on campus. 
Andrew Sullivan illustrated during his recent campus address how the Church has significantly failed her faithful twice in this century-during the Holocaust and dur­ing the AIDS pandemic. By adding to the pain, isolation, and conflict, the Admin­istration continues to fail Notre Dame's Lesbian and Gay students, through this shameful ignorance, intolerance, discrimination, and un-Christlike behavior. 
It is truly a sad day for the Irish! 
DAVID PAIS 
Class of'72 
New York 

God can't be wrong, nor can the Church 
Dear Editor: single participant thus far in The Catholic Church centers "logical"), but we become subvert the material for the 
The letter to the editor titled the debate has denied, nor in part upon the Holy Spirit essentially a collection of parti­spiritual-in all places, at all "Community voices support for would they deny, the basic dig­residing within Her, and the cles and atoms with an elec­times. In the Church, this gays" and published Friday, nity of any human being. I Divine Authority established by tronic charge running through means participation in the Feb. 3, raised two central believe that both sides of this Christ which it gives Her to in­it, that will eventually run Sacraments, social justice, not issues in support of gays and issue are sincerely acting for terpret scripture. As a Catholic down, like a battery, and let us living beyond your needs, and lesbians: That their basic digni­what they think is best for the body, both as students and fac­melt back into the mud and overcoming tendencies which ty as human beings was being human individual. ulty, we should know that hu­filth we are. are not directed towards God. denied by the University, and man dignity is found through One of those tendencies is a that the university's pursuit of Faith, and in particular, proclivity towards extramarital the issue on religious ideology 'As a Catholic body, through the Bible. Granted, this '1s "the most basic dig-sex, and since marriage is de­should be abandoned in order both as students may be "outmoded religious nity of all humans" the fined by Christ as a union to give true dignity to all peo­thinking," but what do we have between man and woman, this
and faculty, we should ability to consummate a 
ple. without religion? includes homosexual in­
know that human dignity relationship with whom 
This second issue is par­As Tolstoy wrote in Con­tercourse. I have homosexual
is found through Faith, they so desire, as the let­
ticularly disturbing, as it calls fessions, when he left the friends, and they live not into question the very heart of and in particular, through Orthodox Church, left God, he ter to the editor suggest­according to their sexuality, but the education of Notre Dame. the Bible.' found nothing. Life was devoid ed?' according to who they are How can a Catholic university of meaning. Nihilism says as above and beyond their sexual abandon its religious heritage much. Nihilism being a con­preferences. Yet, if the rest of on any one issue that it faces? Human dignity is firmly temporary "mode of thought," Is "the most basic dignity of the gay and lesbian community Moreover, how can a uni­established only through Faith that I presume the author of the all humans" the ability to at Notre Dame refuses to versity, professing Faith in in Christ. As a Catholic, I find letter would prefer to Aquinas consummate a relationship adhere to this code, as estab­God's Word through His the Faith in Christ through the or Augustine. Without God, with whom they so desire, as lished by the Bible, then it can Church, Faith in God Himself, Church. That is one of the rea­without a soul, the human the letter to the editor suggest­never be officially recognized. be at odds with human dignity? sons I came to The University of being has no dignity. None. We ed? Isn't this defining someone Is God wrong? Is the Church Our Lady of the Lake; it cer­can worship ourselves as cre­according to their sexuality, as wrong? tainly was not to see a Catholic ative beavers with a hyperac­the author blamed the ROGER ZALNERAITIS 
Does the University deny the institution subverted on the tive nervous system that makes University of doing? The most Sophomore human dignity of homosexuals basis of a sexual preference us think outside of the nature of basic dignity of all human Morrissey Hall and lesbians? I do not think a issue. Nature (what we like to call beings, in Christianity. is to 

Monday, February 13, 1995 page 11
VIEWPOINT 

• -'T;;;RS ,,0 THF .DITOR 
Happiness found in virtue 
Dear Editor: 
"Lilies that fester smell far worse than weeds. " Shakespeare 
Last week The Observer pub­lished a column by D.J. Sarafa that presented an argument for undergraduates to pursue the hedonistic lifestyle. In his de­fense, Mr. Sarafa cited the work of "libertine" author Bob Shacochis who writes, "I should like to elbow aside the estab­lished pieties and raise my martini glass in salute to the mortal arts of pleasure ... specif­ically, drinking, smoking, and screwing." 
This is indeed compelling prose, and while I write today to disagree, I warn the reader that I lack Mr. Sarafa's intellect and Mr. Shacochis' sophistica­tion. llaving made my dis­claimer. I offer you an alternate theory: true happiness is gained from a life of virtue. 
Mr. Sarafa has constructed a philosophy that at first appears to be nothing more than a rationalization for immoral behavior. The philosophy he endorses provided him happi­ness, but only happiness for those four short years of his undergraduate studies and that "carefree summer without con­sequence" that spanned the chasm between his undcrgraduale work and the real world (law school). If Mr. Sarafa is consistent in his phi­losophy. he may never achieve happiness again. That would be tragic. 
But can happiness really be achieved in anything less than a complete lifetime? "One swal­low docs not make a summer; neither does one fine day. And one day, or indeed any brief period of felicity, does not make a man entirely and perfectly happy." (Aristotle, Nicomachean Ethics) To Aristotle, happiness is achieved in the virtuous life. This defini­tion remains incompatible with Mr. Sarafa's to the extent that virtue differs from vice. Mr. Shacochis suggests that "vice after all, is not wholly without virtue and, like virtue, must sometimes settle for being its own reward." 
That line reminded me of a recent Calvin and Hobbes 
'Mr. Sarafa has con­
structed a philoso­phy that at first appears to be nothing more than a rationalization for immoral behavior. The philosophy he endorses provided him happiness, but only happiness for those four short years of his undergraduate stud­ies.. .' 
comic. In the cartoon, Hobbes asks Calvin if he has made any New Year's resolutions. Calvin says no and explains, "See, in order to improve oneself, one must have some idea of what is 'good.' That implies certain val­ues. But as we all know, values are relative. Every system of belief is equally valid and we need to tolerate diversity. Virtue isn't better than vice, it's just different." To which 
Hobbes replies. "I don't know if I can tolerate that much toler­ance." 
If Watterson's Hobbes isn't a satisfactory authority on virtue, then I offer the thoughts of the Buddha from the Dhammapada: "They who are not ashamed of what they ought to be ashamed of, such men, embracing false doctrines, enter the evil path." The Buddha goes on to distinguish the path of spiritual growth. "Him I call indeed a Brahman who is free from anger, dutiful, virtuous, without appetites, who is subdued, and has received his last body." 
Mr. Shacochis recommends we engage in Epicurean delights; the Buddha suggests a path of spiritual growth through virtue. 
If we stipulate that virtue and vice are different we are left to wonder which brings happi­ness. Is it the vice that Mr. Sarafa reveled in, or is it the life of virtue Aristotle and Buddha defend? In the second stanza of his poem "L'Envoi", Rudyard Kipling suggests this answer: 
And those who were good shall be happy: they shall sit in a golden chair/They shall splash at a ten-league canvas with brushes of comet's hair. 
Kipling's poem is about the reward promised to the good workers from the Master. He emphasizes positive acts that lead to happiness. An emphasis found in the Sermon on the Mount, where Jesus praises selflessness by saying, "Just so, your light must shine before others, that they may see your good deeds and glorify your heavenly Father." (Matthew 5:1 
6. This is the ideal that Christ embodied. Distinguish the selflessness of Christ's life with the selfishness of Mr. Shacochis' "drinking, smoking, and screwing.'' 
GEORGE SPAETH Law student 

Time to follow the rules, or 'nnd a public school' 
Dear Editor: 
In recent weeks, the gay and lesbian community at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's has been told that they can no longer hold meetings or gatherings of any kind in university buildings or classrooms. It is my contention that the university, ln accordance with Du Lac and the Catholic and Christian mission set forth therein, has acted properly and in high regard to the values and goals of this university up until Patty 0' Hara's decision to "rec­ognize" GLND/SMC as an "official club." 
GLND/SMC is a group that is based directly on sexual orienta· tion. One of the group's purposes is to foster homosexual ideals and activity. If not to do this, then why bother with the fonnation of the group and the unity of its members? I am the President of the College Republicans and my club's purpose Is to foster and promote Republican ideas and activity. Is it far-fetched to think that GLNDISMC aims to foster their own interests? 
Beyond what the Church has to say about homosexuals. or even the Bible for that matter, Du Lac explicitly addresses the cultivation of sexual activity as contrary to the University of Notre Dame's moral and ethical mission. This isn't just applicable to homosexuals either. Heterosexuals engaging in intercourse can also be subject to permanent dismissal. So then, it becomes an issue of sexual activity ... not sexual orientation. The issue is not exclusive to GLND/SMC, nor is it discriminatory and the adminis­tration is far from being homophobic. In fact, the University pro­tects all "sexual orientations" from "discriminatory harassment." So 1f the University does not allow for official groups to foster and nourish sexual practices that are out of wedlock (whatever orientation) and that any activity that promotes this is contrary to the university, and GLND/SMC promotes this type of behavior and activity, how could the university be justified in officially recog­nizing GLND/SMC as a legitimate campus organization? If you disagree With Du Lac, find a public school. 
When we came to Notre Dame, we said .we would follow the codes and rules set forth by the academic, social. and moral mis­sion of Du Lac, Leaders and proponents of GLNDISMC should Le treated with "human decency," as should all persons. It is Judi· crous and utterly offensive , however, to accuse this university of "homophobia" or of blatant discrimination. To be sure, the mis­take that Notre Dame made was allowing GLND/SMC to hold meetings at all! 
JAY TOWN 
Ptesident College Rt:upubli..:am 

Compassion marks the real 'silent majority' 
Hrian Berry's letter in the February 1Oth Obscwvcw was self announced as a statement from the "Silent Majority" on the GI.ND/SMC issue. In addition, the author daimed to be bringing the cam­pus "The Word of God." For various masons, I believe the author represents neither. 
Any follower of politics, and especially of gay and lesbian politics, will know that in 11JIJ2 Oregon was the epicenter of otw of tlw hottest gay rights battles of tlw decade. Ballot Measure Nine, pro­posed by the Owgon Citizen's Alliance or (O.C.A) would have put a new amendment on the state constitution. This amendment would permanently legalize discrimination of homosexuals in state employment. forbid state spend­ing to "encourage" homosexuality (i.e. inform citizens of A.I.D.S. prevention) and ol'ficially dedare homosexuality to be "Perverse and Abnormal.'' 
The elections information packet offered space to any group wishing to offer an opinion on the ballot measures. The section lor supporters of measure 9 included one joke submission; a some­what Monty Python-ish parody of the religious right. I remember in high school how it was the joke of the day, but it bore a serious point. 
The group that submitted the state­ment claimed to be the "Special Righteousness Committee," and voiced support for the O.C.A. but claimed the measure didn't go far enough. 
Quoting the same sections of the Bible that the O.C.A. had in their eampaign, and also that Berry had in his letter, the group claimed that no war on per­versity and godlessness would be com­plete without an attack on those hea­thens who dare wear mixed fibers, get tattoos, shave and eat from 2 year old apple trees. 
Sound absurd? llow dare you! The special righteousness committee was 
working for the Lord. They had the quotes all looked up. 
"You shall not sow your field with mixed seed. Nor shall a garment of mixed linen and wool come upon you." · (Leviticus. 19:19) 
"When you have come unto the land. and have planted all kind of trees for food, then you shall count their food as uncircumcised. Three years it shall be uncircumcised to you. It shall not be eaten." (Lev. 19:20) 
"You shall not shave around the sides ofyour head, nor shall you disfigure the sides ofyour beard." (Lev. 19:27) 
"You shall not make any cuttings in your flesh for the dead, nor any tattoo marks on you: I am the Lord. " (Lev 
19:28) 
Look them up for yourself. They're all in there. And of course the punishment for these transgressions is just as seri­ous as the sin of homosexuality: eternal damnation. Consequently any catholic university with any sense of decency should expel groups supporting these sinners. If the Special Righteousness Committee had a Notre Dame chapter I'm sure they would courageously call for the expulsion of the demonic, fruit eating, facial hair shaving, polyester wearing heathens who dared to take a place in our Catholic community. Would Berry be yelling "Kudos" then? 
With some historical perspective, one can see why seemingly innocent behav­ior was condemned in Leviticus. Pork was forbidden in that time because often it was not cooked well enough to remove disease. One can see how other actions involving penetration of the flesh, the digesting of potentially underripe fruit, etc, could lead to disease in a less advanced society. In those days, disease was not understood, and thus was seen as a punishment from God. We now know otherwise. We know now that those who contract diseases are victims, not sinners. 

Well, all of us but the O.C.A. Pat Robertson, and conservative Catholics like the priest of my local parish, who cheer the tragic AIDS epidemic as God's punishment for sins know this. I urge Notre Dame's Silent Majority to speak up. Is this what they really stand for? 
I'm sure that in bibical times, as it still is now, homosexual behavior carried the threat of various sexually transmited diseases. This is also true for hetrosex­ual behavior. As individuals and as a soiciety, we must make a choice. Do we treat sick people as evildoers getting their just punishment, or do we use our skills and medical knowledge to help them? It is a cruel and ancient prejudice that sees disease as justice. 
There seems to be two types of reli­gious interpretation in the gay rights debate. The first is a strict literal trans­lation that relies on soundbites mostly from the Old Testament. The second concentrates more on the general mes­sage of the new testament than on obscure statements. 
The former is the argumentation of Brian Berry and the O.C.A. It is the argumentation that was blasted to pieces in Oregon by the "Special Righteousness Committee." It has roots that go back as far as Christianity. It's tendency to ignore the messages of tol­erance and love in the new testament, and go straight to the condemnation, fire and brimstone of the old testament brought us the crusades, the Spanish inquisition, the K.K.K., and is now involved in a struggle to turn back the clock on Gay rights. 
Make no mistake, this silent majority Berry speaks of is the spiritual descen­dent of all these groups. Its desire is to condemn and outcast a group for no rational reason. Like the letter below Berry's so eloquently states, "the scien­tific community no longer sees homosex­uality as a disorder but a inborn trait." Amoral. The Christian Right's desire to ignore this and go back to Leviticus for the "Hard" evidence is no more rational and no less evil than a Nazi's ignorance of the enormous body of scientific data proving racial equality. Notre Dame is not "First and Foremost" a Catholic institution. It is first and foremost a uni­versity, and as such has a solemn duty to follow the truth, no matter what old prejudices are smashed in the process. 
Berry cheers the university's expulsion of a group that helps confused, lost, and possibly suicidal students come to grips with their identity. He then is appalled and disgusted when he sees chalk stick figures "defiling" university property. To me, his reactions seem to come from a sickingly inverted sense of morality. While I do not consider myself to be a mainstream domer, I do think that the majority shares this sense of injustice. don't think Berry stands for the majori­ty. If so, the Thursday night GLND/SMC meeting in LaFortune would not have been the success that it was. For this group to conduct a meeting what might be the most public room on campus, in the midst of all the controversy. and not have any major disturbances, proves that the majority are committed to toler­ance and peace. 
Many students here may not agree with homosexuality. Overall, however, there seems to be a sense of under­standing and compassion. That is the real silent majority. 
GREG VAN GRUNSVEN 
Freshman 
Sorin Hall 



~--·---~----------­
~ 
~ ~ 
ACCE-NT 
~ page 12 Monday, February 13, 1995 
• AT THE MOVIES WITH FAT MAN A~D OADDY 
The Quick and the Dead: Breaking the gender barrier 
N
Rating: beauties teach all those nasty Dead" amused, thrilled, and re­*** (out of 4) cowboys a lesson or two. I was fused to ·play along with the pleasantly surprised. norms of the Western genre. A one woman named In "The Quick and the Dead", female gunslinger, craftily de­Ellen (Sharon Stone) Sharon Stone was as steadfast signed characters, a slick plot, ides into a corrupt as Wayne and as deadpan as and frenzied, distinctive direc­tumble-weed town to enroll in a Eastwood. I draw these com­tion by Sam Raimi (the "Evil gunslinging tournament. An parisons not to divert attention Dead" trilogy) all collaborated assorted cast of eccentric cow­back the stereotypical male together to generate a film boys along with the corrupt cowboy; rather, I employ them which toys with convention town ruler symbolically called to conclusively assert that Stone and, more importantly, tells a Herod (Gene Hackman) are the was incredibly successful in her great story. The genre-defying competition she faces to acquire attempt to fill the shoes of the use of a female hero lends an the juicy prize awarded to the archetypal Western hero. The odd (but not overwhelming) winner of the contest. But it's veritable androgyny of this cen­sense of freedom to the film.
·• 
not just the money that she is tral role that is subsequently By challenging the commonly after -she also wants to created is perhaps the most sig­held notions of the elements of revenge Herod, the murderer of nificant reason why this film is Westerns, "The Quick and the her father. The memory of her both believable and enjoyable. Dead" breaks free from the cat­father's death has dominated "The Quick and the Dead" alog of countless "Cowboy her thoughts. and she vows to allows its audience to enjoy movies" which preceded it and avenge her loss and eliminate fairly intriguing plot develop­creates a true sense of original­Herod. ments without being entranced ity for itself. The unconven­or offended by the extraneous tionality of the film thus allows 
Daddy: There are few things baggage of current social issues itself to establish its own style in life better than a pleasant commonly incorporated in to­and content. This manifests in surprise, and one of those is a day's films that would be basi­the action sequences. Unlike good western. This essential cally irrelevant to this particu­the standard Western gunfights truth is why I enjoyed the ma­lar narrative. that we have all become accus­jority of "The Quick and the As far as the genre of West­tomed to in Clint Eastwood and as Herod also provide concrete way towards the befuddled Dead," save a rather trite and erns go, "The Quick and the John Wayne films, Sam Raimi acting which helps solidify the Herod, I sensed the cornball contrived ending. I have no Dead" is sure to please even the provides a series of unusual plot. The characters of the film pollution that stinks up the end­qualms admitting that the idea most selective of its connois­shoot-outs that allow the viewer are extremely amusing, from ings of so many decent action of a female gunslinger left me seurs. The scenery itself, cou­to witness the fighting from the seemingly invincible Spot­movies. Raimi abandons in the rather skeptical. My initial pled with the film's standard unusual, if not disturbing, per­ted Horse, whose body is rid­last ten minutes what made the prejudice shouldn't be attrib­narrative themes of revenge spectives as through a hole in a dled with countless bullet holes, rest of the film so striking. He uted to any form of deep-rooted and fulfillment, reminded me of gunslinger's head or from the to Ace Hanlon, the petty gun­does manage to redeem himself chauvinism; it was most why Westerns are so appealing. speeding bullet's point of view. slinger who has mastered hy­somewhat by filling the cliched assuredly due to the fact that In a time of convoluted morality This sort of freshness and live­perbole instead of his firearm. ending with beautifully choreo­the only real female shootist I and amorphous social respon­liness, combined with the un­The overindulgence of good graphed gunslinging, alluding could recall from my history sibilities, I often desire to ven­conventional female heroine, characters is like the Fat Man's back to his earlier work with courses was Annie Oakley. ture to such places where these which allows "The Quick and belly after a belt-buster sand­the "Evil Dead" movies. However. despite her amazing distinctions are sharply drawn; the Dead" to move beyond the wich -and just as satisfying. Excepting this disappointing skill with firearms, Annie just where the good is unquestion­recent, mundane Western filth Good acting, a solid plot, and conclusion, "The Quick and the wasn't nearly as attractive as ably good and the bad is down­that has plagued theaters ev­excellent action sequences are Dead" is a voraciously original Stone and certainly did not pos­right nefarious. "The Quick erywhere hard to turn down, and "The film which makes the familiar sess even a hint of her glam­and Dead" is one of the better (namely "Tombstone," "Wyatt Quick and the Dead" has all of unfamiliar and inspires me to orous image. Thus, I assumed films I've seen recently and, in Earp," and "Posse"). these ready to order. strut around like Sharon Stone. that a Western with Sharon the end, it left me longing to Sharon Stone delivers an un­The only lapse in the film Stone would certainly be an­ride into the sunset with cow­expectedly solid performance comes at the end when the plot Scott Bazik and John Zack other ludicrous theatrical sce­girl Stone. as Ellen. Leonardo DiCaprio as dives into senseless, Rambo­are Fat Man and Daddy. Their nario like Bad Girls: a travesty Kid, Kevin Conway as Sgt. esque nonsense. As the town movie reviews appear every of a film in which manicured Fat Man: "The Quick and the Cantrell, and Gene Hackman explodes and Ellen saunters her Monday in The Observer. 
J. California Cooper's spirit found in her simplicity 
By HEATHER GORMAN Cooper finds solace and relief in the StaffWriter prospect that every day is a new chance as well as a new beginning. 
''The best advice I could give California Cooper emphasizes the a twenty year old is study. importance of the worldwide human Think. Read. Live more family in Family. "All these people lives than your own, then make your livin are brothers and sisters and own." California Cooper has defmitely cousins. All these beautiful different lived more lives than her own through colors. We! ... We the human family." her literary works. They are a culmi­God said so! FAMlLY!" With a nar­nation of her experiences and second­ration by Clora, the main character in hand observations. One must delve the novel who tells of her ancestors into the person of J. California Cooper plights, we see that over time the blood in order to understand her depth and of one human race becomes that of charisma. another; no distinctions remain. We 
California Cooper carries the inno­should not harm our fellow humans cence of the dolls into her life as well with words or foul deeds because they as into her stories. She leads a simple are our brethren on God's earth. life in a green house in eastern Texas. Although California Cooper maintains She says. " I know God loves the color a spirit of hope and enchantment with green because everything in the world life. she does acknowledge the fact that is green." She carries this simplicity "the devil is the busiest thing I know." into her stories and remains as one of She sees the devils work in her charac­the most down to earth writers today. ters as well as in her daily life. The
,/'""

But she "guards her privacy." She potency of evil stings worse than the feels that the time she spends on earth good all around us. We are left to is her time to discover experience, believe that evil is constantly lurking 
think, read, or create. She rarely in­longhand is the "only way I can get In the compelling novel Family, for among the shadows in our lives and these voices," those of her characters, which California Cooper has become
vites people to drop in or to stay at her that it may spring up unexpectedly at 
"to come."· She cries at her own works most acclaimed, we, as readers, expe­
home. In an odd way people are an any moment. 
infringement on the solitude with when they are produced on stage. By rience a catharsis when we reach the Among her most prominent works growing attached to the situations of end of the book. 
which she has become so enchanted. It include Family. A piece of Mine, The 
is from this solitude that her many her characters, she feels empathy for One cannot help but to be moved by Matter is Life., and In Search of remarkable masterpieces have come. their plights. her ingenuousness and spirit. Al­Satisfaction, the newest addition to her 
Most of California Cooper's writing Her characters most often speak in though her life has not always been a works. Her honors include San takes place in the early morning hours, the vernacular of Black America. They happy one, she ends her stories with a Francisco's Black Playwright of the when the characters seem to come to transcend into the culture and lives of remarkable spirit of hope and wonder. Year, The American Lion Associations her full of life and three dimensional. the people and simultaneously reveal She says in Family :"They call time Literary Award, The James Baldwin 
California Cooper's conception of life an old man. But time don't age, ain't
Most of her writing is done in longhand Literary Award, and The American at her bed. She finds that. writing in and love. old. Every day is new." California Book Award for Homemade Love. 
photo courtesy of Murray Close 
(1. to r.) Leonardo DiCaprio, Gene Hackman, Sharon Stone and Russell Crowe star in The Quick and the Dead, a TriStar Pictures Release. 
J. California deep involvement with the lives of her characters makes her a mesmerizing story writer. 
ACCENT

Monday, February 13, 1995 page 13 
Mark Leyner: Apostmodern Wunderkind speaks 
By JOSH OSERSKY Staff Writer 
''My father is 
strapped to a gur­

ney, about to be executnd by lethal injection, when the phone rings." Thus starts Mark Leyner's latest novel-in-progress, read to a capacity crowd in the Ilesburgh Auditorium on a freezing Saturday night. Leyner, the postmodern Wunderkind whose tales of illegal growth hor­mones, partially deboned presi­dents, and restaurants that serve "primordial soup" on the menu {ammonia and methane mixed in the presence of light­ing). was the guest of the Sophomore Literary Festival and granted the following inter­view to Observer columnist (and fellow llobokenite) Josh Ozersky. 
What are your favorite medi­caljoumals? 
I've falhm a bit out of touch ­in faet, I'm going to go thn ad ageney where I used to work and go through their usnd bin. I like the emergency room mag­azinns. That's a specialty of mine, emergPncy medicine. 
You don't write too much about emergency medicine. though. You write more. like. patlwloyy. 
I think you're right. Part of the father's story Iin the new workl. part of his last words are about a job he once had with a beautician, and a woman came in and the top of her skull was gone, and she kind of looked like a hard boilnd egg with tho top of the shell cut off. And she had this bnautiful hair that grew right out of the brain. So they have this whole convnrsation about what sort of... Shn says to him, "Look. I'm sick of having these bangs falling over my frontal lobes every day. What can we do?" So I supposn I am more inter­ested in pathology. And I like pathology journals, I was going to say. They don't have to be forensic pathology. I think I just have a personal reason for enjoying-well, "enjoying" may bn the wrong word to use. 
What about biology journals? Because there's also a lot about animals. like the shrimp in My Cousin. My Gastroenterologist that can only live in 660oo sul­fur-rich water. 
That carne from Nature, I think, which is a British jour­nal. I don't by any means do an exhaustive search of these magazines. 
I think it's really fascinating that that aspect of my work still strikes people as so odd. It's just not what people expect in fietion, because there's such a gulf in our culture bntween that kind of language, that exper­tise, and what a typkal eitizen is allowed to know, that it still seems like the most esoteric, prescribed discourse in the world to people. Unfortunately. 
When you see men and women using it with each other, or you're at a bar and we hear people using certain kinds of language that we thought was only restricted to advertis­ing or legalese to manipulate each other intimately, that's what fascinates me, that's one of the things that my work is about. Usually, if you have ar­cane nwdical jargon, it's most interesting and most funny if its put into the mouth of someone who's just speaking to someone else. And they're trying to ex­plain what they feel, and they're using some image that has to do with, uh, RNA tran­scription or something. "It's like a nucleotide is drawn to a protein base, and there's noting either of them can do, you know, but it's to create a chain of amino acids that will even­tually be something, and they'll be long gone by then. Can't you see, Bill?" You know. 
Did you just make that up? 
Yeah. Well, I'm reading an article in Scientific American about RNA polymers transcrip­tion. 
I notice that jargon is very big too. with computer guys. There 's no real authority ex­cept ifyou know those words. 
Right. That's one of the rea­sons why originally people had such contempt for Apple and Macintosh, computer people. Because it was too easy for them. 
Are you sympathetic to that position? Because I would imagine you would be the last person to want everything translated into colloquial En­glish. 
I think there should be a cer­tain aristocracy. I mean, I'm ~ot a democrat, necessarily. I think there should be people who know things that other people don't know...I think if you get mad at someone because they don't understand you when you're speaking that way, you're an idiot. That's what happens with computer people. The trouble with com­puter people from that day is that they tended to be desper­ately lonely at the same time they were incomprehensible. So you'd have these dormitolog­ical tragedies walking around looking for someone to talk to using this impenetrable jargon, and the whole spectacle was full of pathos. 
Do you thing growing up smart and Jewish and hyper­verbal is something you really bring to your work? 
Yeah, I think that in many ways I am the quintessential smart wiseguy kid who knows a little bit about everything that is going on ... He knows the bands, he knows the science stuff, his­tory, he's just obnoxiously knowledgeable. Just enough to wow people at the dinner table. The dinner table, for a smar­taleck Jewish kid is the arena where you hold court, where you hold forth. That's where you cut your teeth in my back­ground. It's at big family gath­erings, where there are going to be a lot of smart people there, who are really funny. And that's I think the origin of all this stuff. 
What about the time in which you grew up? You're thirty­nine, right? 
Right. The times in which 1 grew up, in which this type of polyglot liberal education seemed very normal. Normal, that the same person who knew who the coolest bands were would also know a little bit about Watson and Crick and their DNA research. That did­n't seem odd, in the milieu I grew up in. And then cultur­ally, it was a perfect time for me. And kids today aren't as lucky. When I was a teenager, it was normal to hear one of the rock stars you loved talk about Shelly or something. 
Yeah? Like who? 
When Brian Jones died, Mick Jagger read a Shelley poem in Hyde Park before a concert. Through your love of music, and the coverage too, since Rolling Stone was a very differ­ent magazine then. It opened avenues that were endless. I mean you get to Joseph Conrad through William Burroughs through Jimmy Page, because William Burroughs was inter­ested that Jimmy Page· lived in Alaistair Crowley's mansion in England. I don't know that that happens that much anymore. I don't know if Ax! Rose died, one of the other members of Guns N'Roses would read a Matthew Arnold poem or something. 
You were talking before about watching Willie Wonka with your daughter. Do you think you'll ever end up working any ofthat stuffinto a book? Some­thing with the Oompa-Loompas maybe? 
My daughter calls that movie "Oompa Loompa." She doesn't call it Willie Wonka. That was the first thing she keyed on. She says, I want to watch "Oornpa Loompa." It's sort of like Pret a Porter , and "Ready to Wear" in parenthesis. My copy of the video says Oompa Loompa and then "Willie Wonka" below. Some day I want to do something for chil­dren. Hight now I have· a movie project, that's an adult movie project that could easily be a children's movie project.. 
An adult movie project? Like. an adult movie? 
Not an adult movie, like you're thinking. With Vanessa Del Rio. 
But I think the kids would love my stuff. I think kids would love the image of a woman getting her hair done, with the hair growing directly out of her brain, and she looks like a hard boiled egg. But I don't know if their parents would think it was a bit too grotesque for their kids. 
How much has your work been influenced by television? 
Yeah, I don't think there's much that 's really good on TV. I don't think it's influenced my love of language or the way I write. It's influenced the form of my work, by which I mean... TV is very hyperkinetic, with a lot of information packed in. I think specifically commercials. The form of commercials... I think that growing up with that has had an effect on all of us, on the way we process informa­tion, and the way we look at art. It's very difficult for people who have grown up with that to read 18th and 19th century literature, for instance. It seems so slow and tedious sometimes. Why does Jane Austen have to describe a ban­ister for five pages? All of us who have grown up since the late fifties have this attention span problem because of this electronic environment we have grown up in. When I first start­ed thinking about writing seri­ously, I thought it would be wonderful to try to fabricate a kind of writing where readers couldn't skip anything. Here was something happening so frequently that readers couldn't skip ahead to see what hap­pens, because what's happen­ing is ongoing and constant. You should be able to open my book at any page and find something enjoyable. 
Josh Ozersky also writes a regular column for Viewpoint. every Thursday. 


Et Tu, Cabe 
Since I was a small child, I've had the feeling that simply by clenching my jaw and visualizing an explosion, I could blow up planets or stars in galaxies thousands of light years from earth. Megalomaniacal delusion or fact? I've been lucky enough over the past few years to have developed a very close friendship with the accaimed theoretical physicist Stephen Hawking. I first became personally acquainted with Stephen when his secretary wrote a letter to my editor at Harmony Books, to say that Hawking didn't feel completely comfortable publishing "A i!Jrief History of Time" until I'd reviewed the book's fundamental theorem and given my criti· 
-

cal imprimatur. Luckily I was between projects and happy to oblige Stephen and his publisher, Bantam Books. Recently, I was seated ringside next to Stephen at the Evander Holyfield/George Forman bout in Atlantic City, and I mentioned my suspicion that I had the ability to destroy celes· tial bodies simply by willing it, and not only did Stephen find this plausible in the abstract, but actually correlated it with several heretofore unexplained supernovae. 
"People think I'm a drug-crazed, cyberpunk version of Hunter Thompson." 
It came as something of a surprise to discover that Martha Stewart's August 3 birth· day/housewarming party in East Hampton was merely a pretense to meet me-and not simply to meet me, but to gather material for her adoring profile entitled "Totally Brilliant •••Totally Buff" which appeared in the September issue of Conde Nast Traveler, and from which the foregoing is excerpted. After all, I'm a ruthless, corrupt, self· indulgent hypocrite; an opportunist, compulsive womanizer, liar, bully and amphetamine addict. I approach a helpless effete antelope who's lying in the grass stupidly licking the gelatin that oozes from her hooves. Yet sometimes fiction is such docile prey to my depredations that it sick· ens me, and I feel like abandoning it to the hye· nas and focusing my creative powers exclusively on poetry. 
Both excerpts taken from ..Bt Tu. Babe, " by Harmony Books. 
r-­
1 
I I • NBA Au.-STAR GAME 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, February 13, 1995 
West routs East, All-Stars try to get fancy 
By WENDY E. LANE tempted a 3-pointer his next tie's Gary Payton, who had 15 made it 79-69 with 6:18 left in In the fourth quarter, things Associated Press trip down the floor. He made assists. the third quarter. Then O'Neal started to get ragged, and the his, though. Even O'Neal's first good per­grabbed a rebound, dribbled crowd lost interest before some PHOENIX It was that kind of night for formance as an All-Star -22 the length of the floor and hijinks by Barkley woke them 
The outcome was decided and 
the Western All-Stars, who points in 26 minutes -couldn't drove to the basket, drawing up. During a timeout with 5:50 the crowd was bored. 
showed why their conference match the West's firepower. the foul and cutting the lead to left, the Suns' gorilla mascot Then the NBA's two best cen­holds the balance of power in Utah's Karl Malone and eight. was dunking off a springboard, ters decided to step out of char­
the NBA. Phoenix's Charles Barkley had That was as close as the East and Barkley wanted to join the acter, helping to save an oth­"I got that idea from Shaq, 15 points apiece. Houston's got. The West proceeded to fun. But as he took the ball in erwise uninspiring All-Star 
when he shot that three," Ola­Hakeem Olajuwon ·had 13 outscore the East 25-10. Rich­his hands, teammate Dan Ma­Game. juwon said. "I said, 'Oh, that's points and 11 r()bounds. mond led the way with 10 jerle pulled him back, and West Before the West completed its a good idea! so I went for a After two years of frustration, points, including two 3-point­coach Paul Westphal came run­
139-112 rout of the East on 
three also." O'Neal finally had a good All­ers, and the West capped the ning on the court to stop him, Sunday, things got downright Mitch Richmond, the Sacra­Star Game. With teammate spurfwith 3-pointers Richmond too. silly. Like Shaquille O'Neal try­
mento guard who was the Anfernee Hardaway to get him and Detlef Schrempf. For the East, Orlando's An­ing a 3-pointer. Like Hakeem 
game's most valuable player, the ball, O'Neal looked com­By the end of the period, the fernee Hardaway and Chicago's Olajuwon making one. was the perfect example of fortable and made 9 of 16 West was up 104-81. and that Scottie Pippen had 12 apiece,The West was already com­
why the West is best. His 23 shots, banishing memories of was that. and Hardaway added 11 fortably ahead, 115-92, when points led all scorers, and he his 2-for-12 performance last "When it got to be 20 points it assists. Dumars scored 10, and O'Neal fired from long range. 
shot 10-for-13, including all year. was ridiculous," San Antonio's his Pistons teammate, rookie Predictably, the 7 -foot-1 Or­three of his 3-pointers, in his Despite his efforts, though, David Robinson said. "Some Grant Hill, had 10. lando center hit nothing but ... third All-Star Game. the East was never really in this players started goofing around, After the East took a 127-118 
-
air. 

"Mitch is great shooter who one, falling behind by 16 at and I think the crowd was a bit decision last year at Minneapo­"It slipped," he said. knows how to come off picks halftime. disappointed. But it got back on lis, the West won for the third Olajuwon, a 7-footer, at-
and when to shoot," said Seat-A 3-pointer by Joe Dumars track." time in four years. 
• COLEGE BASKETBALl '~~'•\ SPoRri"BiuEFS ,wytNOVICE AND VARSITY CREW..•.~ ..T . ·u,.be an, im-
Cal outlasts Arizona in closing seconds 
pottanfm g for Spring .J3reak on Tues(lay at 8:00pm
By ARTHUR H. ROTSTEIN last deadlock-72-72 when Cal built on its 41-32 halftime Tremaine Fowlkes scored 13 
:m<129 DeBartolo:tBring your 
Associated Press Joseph Blair got a tipin with 14 lead with a 10-2 run that in­points. and Buckley added 12 checkbooks! " 
seconds remaining -set the cluded 3-pointers from for the Bears, who knocked off 
BENGAL BOUTS -Training
stage for Roberts. Tremaine Fowlkes and Jelani Arizona at home for the second 
occurs daily at 4:00pm at the
TUCSON, Ariz. He drove into the lane and hit Gardner. Arizona made only straight season. Last season, 
JACC. Anyone interested
The only points of the game a 10-foot jumper. four of its first 16 shots in the Cal won 98-93 in overtime. • should contact Jeff Goddard atby K.C. Roberts -with 1.6 sec­Arizona's long in-bounds pass second half, and trailed 55-38 Arizona tied the game 61-61 
287~804l.J'iiik ,,.

onds remammg gave was intercepted, but Monty with 15:15 left before going on with a 23-6 run, capped by 
,!!• CLIMBtNq WALL SCHED·
California a 74-7 2 upset Buckley traveled. Given another its run. Damon Stoudamire's 3-pointer 
ULE ~ The climbing wall is
Sunday of ninth-ranked chance, Arizona in-bounded The Bears, dominated by and two free throws, a tip-in 
now open for use. The hours
Arizona, the Golden Bears' sec­from half-court with 1 second freshmen and sophomores, from Ben Davis and another will be Sundays 2:00-5:00 andond takedown of a Pac-10 remaining. But Blair couldn't boosted their Pac-10 road Stoudamire free throw. 
Tuesdays and Th1,1rsda.ys fromleader in the last 16 days. get off a shot before the buzzer. record to 4-2. But they've lost Arizona cut it to 71-70 with 7:00-10:00. The climbing wall 
The Golden Bears (12-8, 4-7 Arizona (18-5, 8-3) fell into all five conference home games. 1:19 to go on Ray Owes' layup. Pac-1 0) built a 17-point lead second place behind UCLA -Randy Duck led California He finished with 20 points and 
is located il1, the Rockne Memorial and anyone inter·
early in the second half, but which lost its lead when it was with 14 points, including three had 11 rebounds. Stoudamire Arizona staged a furious rally beaten at home by Cal on Jan. 3-pointers and three technical added 15 points and Blair 11 
ested in using it_must attend and tied the game twice. The 28. foul three throws. for the Wildcats. 
an orientation,,session. For more info call RecSports. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds musr be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Found: •••BIKE LOCK KEY••• On Florida's Spring Break Hotspots! WALKTOND! SPRING BREAK 
213/95 PANAMA CITY OCEANVIEW 3 bdrm, 1 bath ranch. New carpet· MARCO ISLAND, FL. BEACH brand name is "Rhode Gear". ROOM WITH KITCHEN $129! ing, paint & furnace. Family room FRONT 2 BEDROOM CONDO, -Bill X1862 WALK TO BEST BARS! Cocoa Wanted: plus rec room with bar. $56,000. CABLE, POOL, JACUZZI. FRONT 
HEY SOPHOMORES......... . Beach (Near Disney)-27 acre 5 students for completely remod­OPEN SAT., 2118 FROM 2-4 PM. BALCONY OVERLOOKS WHITE Looking for that great service pro­Deluxe Beachfront Resort 7 Nights· eled home. Close to N.D. large rec. 1215 N. Twyckenham SANDY BEACH. OWNER DIS­ject that makes a huge difference, FOUND: Gold chain with $159! Key West $229! Daytona room, washer and dryer, security COUNT. 212-474-1414 and is still a lot of fun? interesting shaped pendant in Room with Kitchen From $129! 1-system. Rent for summer school Barb McHugh Look no further! DBTL week of Jan. 30. Call 800-678-6386 and/or fall semester. Call NOW Coldwell Banker JK 
John x1-7485 277-0636 277·8000, 235-3240. perhaps it is better left unsaid? THE SOPHOMORE CLASS SERVICE PROJECT Spring .Break! Panama City! 8 Days SMALL FURNISHED ROOM FOR suddenly risking absurdity ... I LOST A PAIR OF BLACK CASH­Oceanview Room with a Kitchen RENT. WALK TO CAMPUS. MACINTOSH COMPUTER for sale. Youth Mentoring (serving as role MERE GLOVES, IF FOUND $129! Walk to best barsllncludes $150/MO. INCL. UTILITIES. Complete system only $499. Call HEY YOU! Ready to lose weight for models for under-privileged kids)at PLEASE CALL JENN AT X1460. Free Discount Card which will save 287-2159. Chris at 800-289·5685. real? I lost over 20 lbs., went from a the Northeast Neighborhood Center you $100 on food/drinks! 1-800-size 9 to a 3 in under 8 weeks! No FRIDAYS 2:30-4:30, or anytime in 678-6386 HOMES FOR RENT diets/drugs/exercise! All-Natural 
NOTICES I FORRENT TICKETS
between. Meet at Main Circle or REWARD OFFERED for KEYS NEAR CAMPUS Tablets: guaranteed results! Kelly 161 Alumni Hall. Questions? Call lost somewhere between C1 RUN YOUR OWN BUSINESS, 232-2595 (800)209-2150 Brian x1058. and the Rock. Please call GAIN VALUABLE EXPERIENCE $NEED 2 PETIY TIX 
232-1348. WHILE BUILDING YOUR 1, 2, & 3 BDRM HOMES NEAR BRIAN @x1817 $$$ ATTN: ACTORS/ACTRESSES RESUME. EARN UP TO $10,000 CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW & NEXT Student in directing class needs BRIDGErS (25 JOBS) HIGH DEMAND PROD­FALL. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272-NEED 2 TOM PETIY TIX you for periodic in-class and out-of­
Tues penny night A week ago Thursday morning UCT, IRRIGATION SALES AND 6551 WILL PAY TOP$$ class projects this semester. If you Wed George & the Freaks between the stadium parking lot INSTALLATION. BE A LEADER: BEN X2301 have MWF from 1:15-2:05 free (and Thurs $2 everythin and Decio faculty hall, someone VEHICLE REQUIRED CALL STU­LIVE IN A GOOD NEIGHBOR­some additional time) and are inter­Fri Karaoke prizes & specials picked up a dark green smoke DENT SPRINKLERS AT 1-800· HOOD FURNISHED HOMES NEED 1·2 PETIY TIX ested, call Mike at 4-3597 and Sat. Shade Elaine case which had a solid brass 265-7691 NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT CALL LISA 2364 leave your name and number. All 
lighter in it with my initials CTL on SCHOOL YEAR IDEAL FOR 3-8 help will be appreciated. Thanks. the outside. They were both gilts CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING • •••woMEN'S HEALTH FAIR'•• I would like to have returned. If you Earn up to $2,000+/month working DESPARATELY NEEDED: 
sT_u_D-EN_T_s_27-73-0-97___...JI ~...I __P_E_R_s_o_N_AL__.....J
February 15 are looking for a reward please call on Cruise Ships of Land-Tour com­Ride to Pittsburgh on March 3rd for 3to 5 p.m. 1-4507. otherwise would you panies. World travel (Hawaii, ROSES ARE RED weekend. Please help. 
FOR SALE 
LeMans Hall lobby please turn them in to the campus Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.). L. VIOLETS ARE BLUE Saint Mary's College lost and found, they do not belong Seasonal and full-time employment CONDO NEAR NOTRE DAME THE OBSERVER HAS A Call Laurie at x4096 -Thank You! 
What is a Women's Health Fair? to you! Thank you. available. No experience neces­Immaculate Condo with the latest SPECIAL OFFER FOR YOU It is a chance for you to sary. For more information call1-decor and sharper than new. Call Hey dudes in 1 04 Sorin­get answers for all the 206-634·0468 ext. C55843 Harold Zeltwanger 291-9338 or VALENTINE'S DAY is TOMOR­Give us another Miller High 
questions you have LOST ERA All Star Realty 255-8789. ROW and you are quickly running Life, and later we'll break about your health. FOSSIL MAN'S WATCH. BLACK Need 3 Marquette GA's. Call Kevin out of time to put in your VALEN­through to Papa John's! Sound interesting? AND GOLD FACE. POSSIBLY BY 288-3408 '84 RENUL TE ENCORE. 69,000 TINE classified. All Valentine's Day Love your favorite SMCers Keep an eye on the Observer TURTLE CREEK APT. REWARD. MILES, 5-SPEED. $450. ads will appear in a SPECIAL for details. ADAM 4-4332. SUMMER JOBS 631-6521. Valentine's classification. Happy V-Day Kiddo, ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS I still can't help thinking about 
PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered TODAY IS THE LAST DAY TO the 17th, it will Always bring a Come to the Saint Mary's ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS at $85,900. First floor location. place your VALENTINE classified. smile! Observer Office to place your WANTED NEAR LAKE PLACID Finished basement with full lavato­The deadline is 3 pm. -An lllinios Farmer classifieds Monday 2-4, Tuesday CALL 1-800-786-8373 ry. Two bedrooms and two baths on We are located in 314 Lafortune. 
2:30-4:30, Wednesday 11 :30·1 :00, Spring Break! Bahamas Party ground level. Lease back to owner Del-Thursday 2:30-4:30, and Cruise 6 Days $279! Includes 12 Painters, Foremen, and Managers­through May, 1995. Call ADOPTION-A LOVING CHOICE. Happy Valentine's Day. Let the 
Friday 2-4. Meals & 6 Free Parties! Great Call College Pro Painters at 1 (800) (616)946-0700. We're blessed with financial securi­second act begin. Beaches & Nightlife! A HUGE 346-4649. ty and a Dalmatian! Mid· Western Friends Party! Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights MACINTOSH COMPUTER for sale. couple, stay-at-home mom. Rob Air & Hotel From $429! Spring two need ride-MEMPHIS, spr. Complete system only $499. Call Allowable expenses paid. 800·440­
ILOST & FOUND I 
Break Travel1-800-678-6386 break,$, x1943 Chris at 800-289-5685. 6024 Tracy & Doug Hail the SilverWolf 
~--­

Monday, February 13, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Huskies upward bound 
By JIM O'CONNELL 
Associated Press 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. 
Connecticut is in its second year on top of the Big East. With Sunday's 77-70 vic­tory over No. 10 Syracuse. the third­ranked Huskies have set themselves up for a chance at being No. 1 in the coun­try and part of college basketball his­tory. 
The II uskies (19-1, 12-0) extended their own conference record with 17 consecutive regular-season victories and will find out Monday if their eighth straight league road win will be enough to get them to No. 1, following losses this week by top-ranked North Carolina and No. 2 Kansas. 
If Connecticut, which has never been ranked No. 1, does move to the top of the rankings Monday, it would be the first time teams from the same school have occupied the No. 1 spot in both polls. The Connecticut women's team (21-0) has been No. 1 since beating Tennessee in mid-January. 
"It feels good," guard Kevin Ollie said of the possible leap to the top of the poll, "but I'm glad we're No. 1 in the Big East. That is the thing we have to take care of first." 
Connecticut won the league last sea­son with a 16-2 record and its only loss this season was an 88-59 thrashing by Kansas in Kansas City, Mo. 
"We lost the Kansas game but got more focused," said Ray Allen, who led the Huskies with 18 points Sunday and was a big part of the effort to stop Syracuse's Lawrence Moten. "Once we got here we knew what we had to do be No. 1. This is a real tough place to play. When you play here and come out with a victory it solidifies our spot on top." 
The victory gave the Huskies a two­game lead over Syracuse (17 -4, 1 0-2), which it beat 86-75 earlier in the sea­son. That game featured a 22-point turnaround in the final 11 minutes. 
Sunday's game wasn't decided until the final 2:22, when the Huskies took the lead for good at 69-68 on a free throw by Travis Knight. Connecticut, which struggled from the outside throughout, scored the next eight points -six from the free throw line -as the Orangemen missed all four shots they took. Their final points came on a layup by Moten with 9.8 seconds to play. 
"They made a couple of big plays down the stretch and we didn't," Syracuse coach Jim Boeheim said. "In the Kentucky game (a 77-71 loss last Sunday) and this game we played as well defensively as we're going to play. Offensively, we had good opportunities and didn't connect on them and that's the bottom line in both games." 
Donny Marshall and Knight added 15 points each for Connecticut, which fin­ished 2-for-11 from 3-point range and 28-for-68 overall (41 percent). 
Syracuse was about the same, going 4­for-18 on 3-pointers and 30-for-73 over­all ( 41 percent). 
"They missed shots but we made them miss shots," Marshall said. "We fought on every basket and every defensive possession." 
Moten, who came into the game need­ing 20 points to surpass Derrick Coleman as the school's career scoring leader, finished with 17 on 7-for-18 shooting, 2-for-9 from 3-point range. 
"The shots were good. They just weren't falling," said Moten, who has 2,141 points. "We missed too many easy hoops. You just can't do that against a good team." 
Allen, Ollie and Doron Sheffer spent the day covering Moten. 
"We didn't want the game to be stopped," Ollie said of keeping Moten from getting the school mark. "He'd get the ball and all that stuff. That gets them juiced up and gets the crowd going. We really didn't want It to happen to us." 
When Sheffer made two free throws 


Syracuse's Lawrence Moten was able to muster 17 points, going 7 of 18 from the field, as the Orangemen were shotdown by a tough Connecticut team. 
with 29 seconds left to give Connecticut him, removed his starters with 2.9 sec­a 75-68 lead, one corner of the crowd of onds left and hugged Marshall as the 31,211 at the Carrier Dome began senior left the floor. When the game shouting "We're No. 1." ended, Marshall stood alone at midcourt 
Connecticut coach Jim Calhoun, who with one finger raised high above his said the No. 1 ranking didn't matter to head. 
Falcons fight off Bobcats in MAC match-up 
Associated Press 
BOWLING GREEN 

Shane Kline-Ruminski scored 22 points and had 10 rebounds to lead Bowling Green to a 79­68 victory Sunday over Ohio University in the Mid-American Conference. 
The Falcons (14-6 overall, 8-4 MAC) shut down Gary Trent in the second half, when he scored only four of his 19 points. He also had 14 rebounds. 
With Trent double-teamed, Ohio U. was forced to shoot from the perimeter, where the Bobcats hit just 7 -of-30 3-point attempts. 
Dayon Ninkovic gave the Falcons the lead for good when he scored on a layup with two seconds left in the first half to put Bowling Green ahead 38-37 at the break. 
Ohio U. (17-7, 8-4) got within three with 2:02 left on a Jason Terry jumper that ended a 12-5 Bobcat run. Terry and Jim Peterson each scored five in the spurt. 

But the Falcons made 11-of­12 free throws to the finish, in­cluding one by Shane Komives with 37 seconds left that pushed the lead to 13 ­Bowling Green's biggest lead of the game. 
Komives added 14 points for the Falcons, Antonio Daniels had 12 and Jay Larranaga 10. 
Terry scored 17 for the Bobcats, Peterson 14 and Curtis Simmons had 10. 
Bowling Green had 18 fewer shots from the field, but hit 28­of-58 from the field for 48 per­cent to the Bobcats' 29-of-70 for 41 percent. The Falcons also outscored Ohio U. 18-3 at the free-throw line. 

Center for Concerns 

A REFLECTION from Center for Social Concerns 

Part of our shared mission at the University of Notre Dame is "to create a sense of human solidarity and concern for the common good that will bear fruit as learning becomes service to justice." As we face the pain and anger that have again surfaced around the issue of homosexuality, it is this mission which can help frame our individual and collective responses. 
Out of that concern, we encourage an honest. thoughtful, caring conversation -with skilled mediation if appropriate -among representatives of all the parties involved, including members of our community who are gay and lesbian. The goal is to make Notre Dame a safer, healthier and more loving place, for all of us and, as our mission calls us, to form "an authentic human community graced by the Spirit of Christ." 
The Administrative Staff The Center for Social Concerns 
If you see sports happening, call The Obseruer. 631-4543 
ROSES 
2495 Dozen Delivered 
Special Price limited to pre-order
' also Valentine Flower Arrangt'ments starting at $495! 
MATERNOWSKI'S 
272-0970~~:: 
page 16 The Observer· SPORTS Monday, February 13, 1995 
• COllEGE 8ASKETBAU. 

Indiana upsets Purdue 
By STEVE HERMAN 
Associated Press 

BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 
Charlie Miller has found his shooting touch and his confi­dence. 
"It's the way I should have been playing the whole time. That's all I really have to say," the Indiana freshman said Sunday after scoring a season­high 21 points in an 82-73 vic­tory over No. 25-ranked Purdue. 
Miller, averaging only 4.9 points on 41 percent shooting going into the game, hit 9-of-11 shots, including both his 3­point attempts, as the Hoosiers snapped Purdue's six-game winning streak and kept alive their own slim Big Ten title hopes. 
"That's the way I told myself I had to do it. We really have to work on consistency as far as myself, and the team also," Miller said. "We just want to win these next seven games to get into the NCAA (tourney)." 
The 6-foot-7 Miller, whose best previous game was 16 points against Northwestern, had 12 points in the final 10 minutes after Purdue cut a 16­point Indiana lead to three. 
"Charlie took advantage of things," Indiana coach Bob Knight said. "He played the whole court and defended. He played big. He was really good in the second half taking ad­vantage of opportunities." 
Indiana (14-9, 6-5 Big Ten) never trailed, but lost its big lead early in the second half when Purdue (16-6, 7-3) start­ed hitting 3-point shots. 
Cuonzo Martin, held to one point in the first half, had five 3-pointers in the second half and finished with 20 points for the Boilermakers. A 3-pointer by Chad Austin pulled Purdue within 51-46, then two minutes later a fast-break slam by Justin Jennings brought Purdue within 55-52. 
That's when Miller took over. He hit a 3-pointer to put the Hoosiers up 58-52, then after a free throw by Purdue's Roy Hairston, Indiana scored again on a basket by Brian Evans and a layup by Miller. 
The Hoosiers continued widening the lead, and Purdue never came closer than seven after that. 
"It's hard for me to compli­ment IU, but they did a great job on defense," Purdue coach Gene Keady said. 
"I thought Miller was a big player. He might be the most improved player on their team. 
... We've fought through some tough road games, but we ap­parently weren't good enough to fight through another one," Keady said. 
The loss also snapped a four­game road winning streak for the Boilermakers. 
Indiana's top scorer was for­ward Alan Henderson, who hit 8-of-10 shots and had 26 points and a game-high 11 rebounds despite foul trouble in the sec­ond half. 
"I knew I couldn't help the team at all sitting on the bench with 10 minutes to go in the game. So I tried to be cautious, maybe didn't go after a couple blocks I normally would have tried to get," Henderson said. "That's something to work on, staying out of foul trouble." 
Jennings added 15 points and Brandon Brantley 13 for the Boilermakers. 
"I just wanted to come out and play, because in the first half they made every look for me real tough," Martin said. "They were switching and I probably only touched the ball four or five times in the first half. When they went to that zone, we had guys in the mid­dle start flashing, and that kind of opened it up for us a little bit. 

• SAINT MARY'S BASKETBALL 
Belles struggling to win 
BY KARA MASUCCI 
Spons Writer 

Yesterday, the Saint Mary's basketball team lost to Weaton College by four at home. The final score was 74-69, bringing their record to 5-12. The lead­ing scorers were junior forward Jennie Taubenheim and sopho­more forward Marianne Banko. 
The Belles have been work­ing out of a slump since last Tuesday when, according to sophomore Sarah Kopperud, the team's mental attitude di­minished. This problem is what affected the Belles Thursday night when they lost to IUSB by four,points. 
"Last Tuesday we fell apart team wise. Everyone was think­ing differently and the offense was not running the plays. Also, we weren't making the 

ENTREPRENEUR QUE 
"Don't wait for an opportunity... Create one!" 
Have an idea for a new business? How about an idea for improving an old one? 
Ifso, then you'd be perfect for the Business Plan Contest. Prizes of$2000, $1000, and $500for the top three plans. 
Cal/634-2084 to register by February 15th. 
Subject to contest rules available to all contestants. 
free throws," stated Kopperud. 
Due to these problems, the Belles have been working on free throw shooting and new defense tactics in practice. This seems to be bringing the team back together. 
"We played a special defense on Thursday night that didn't work as well as we thought it would. Yesterday, we played a 1-3-1 defense. However, we didn't get on the middle player. So, she was able to get in sec­ond and third shots," stated sophomore forward Katy Lalli. 
"However, our five shooting was stronger at times. So, that proves that our practice is help­ing," Lalli added. 

According to junior forward and guard Lori Gaddis, the free throw shooting at yesterday's game was one of the biggest problems contributing to the loss. 
"Free throws were one of the most frustrating parts of the game. We got into a bit of foul trouble in the second half. The other team seemed to make every shot. While, we couldn't make any shots from the line, " said Gaddis. 
Despite the losses, the team is hopeful. The offensive is keeping the plays going and the team attitudes are rising. 




Located Across From Tracks on St. Rd. 23 2030 South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 
273-1041 
Hours: Sat. 10-2 M &T 10-6 
Monday, February 13, 1995 
Wildcats 
continued from page 20 
Justice steal. Maybe a dunk by Marcus Young. Perhaps even a bueket from semi-healthy Keith Kurowski. 
The spark might have arrived after a questionable double technical victimized Irish for­ward Jason Williams early in the half. Maybe the Irish could ride some emotion to a come­baek. 
Instead, the reality was much more grim. Hoover left the game with a sprained ankle, Young picked up two quick fouls, Williams was a non-fac­tor, and the Wildeats continued their explosion, stretching the lead relentlessly. 
"We may have seen the No. 1 team in the country today," stated an obviously awed Irish head coach John MacLeod after the game. "They basically toyed with us for a while." 
The Wildcats finished with six players in double figures, led by junior forward Walter McCarty, who scored 17 of his game high 20 points in the first half. 
"We were very unselfish on offense, but it was our defense that was spectacular at all lev­els," stated Kentucky coach Hick Pitino. 
Indeed, the stifling Wildcat man-to-man wreaked havoc with the Irish half court sets. Notre Dame shot a miserable 33% from the field while com­mitting 23 turnovers. 
"When a team shoots such a low percentage, there are going to be a lot of offensive rebounds," explained Pitino. 
The Observer • SPORTS 
"We limited them to just six second shots, which served as a catalyst for our fast break." 
Kentucky also dominated from beyond the arc, hitting twelve treys, including four from McCarty and three from guard Tony Delk. 
Meanwhile, Notre Dame con­tinued to struggle from deep, as none of the Irish marksmen were able to get open looks at the basket. Notre Dame's only threes in the second half came well after the game was decid­ed. 
Notre Dame's inside game was equally inept. Leading scorer Pat Garrity was 1 for 8 from the floor, while freshman reserve Brian Watkins was 0-5 in extended minutes. 
Derek Manner and Hoover led the Irish with 12 points apiece. 


The Observer/ Kyle Kusek 

After 12 points, Ryan Hoover left the game with a spained ankle. 

Stylish Kentucky coach Rick Pitino has his team ready for the NCAA's. 
]. 

Dohrmann 
continued from page 20 
eighth-man. They're as good as the three or the one or the two on the Irish roster. But then I guess that's the problem. The Wildcat's No. 8 is Antonie Walker, after the game Pitino called him the most talented player he's had since Jamal Mashburn. Big problems. 
Fans were painfully reminded of Notre Dame's mediocrity each time the Irish crossed half court. For as stingy as the Kentucky press can be, it was not the falling for the blue and gold. 
"The press wasn't that bad, we were able to break that, but once we got into our half court offense we got careless with the ball," senior guard Lamarr Justice said. "That was what killed us." 
Not-so-obvious reminders of better days floated around the Joyce ACC like snow flurries. LaPhonso Ellis sat behind the Irish bench recalling the days of dunks and rebounds and, yes, tight losses. There were days that Notre Dame boasted of Phonzs. whereas the suits these days are filled by one too many Richie Cunninghams. 
John Paxson sauntered around the arena looking much like a man who could still knock down a three, or at least a free throw (The Irish were 14-for-24 in the first halO 
"They just need more talent," he said af­terwards. He was talking about the Irish. but then widened his comments to include the Bulls. 
And Jeff Burris sat quietly in the stands, reminding all of the days when mediocrity on the hardwood was offset by prosperity at the building across from the JACC. 
NBC had the unfortunate duty of nation­ally televising this debacle just as ABC is slapping itself for televising UCLA's slaugh­ter of the Irish last weekend. Next up may be the Fox network where they never put much weight on ratings. 
Pitino was humble. "An off night," he called it. And as every coach does after shellacking the Irish, he gave hope for the future. 
"Notre Dame basketball is going to be dif­ferent. Now that they are in the Big East, they are going to have a foothold in New York, New Jersey, Chicago, and all the hotbeds." 
Meaning one day, Notre Dame might lind 
some teeth. 

lli~(~Y(~1..1~ 'I'llI~ ()liSI~ ll\T)~ ll 
Protest 
continued from page 20 
GLND/SMC. Notre Dame officials beefed up security as a precaution­ary measure. 
"We're always concerned when we have a nationally televised game, but yes we did increase secu­rity a little more than we normally would," said Director of Security Rex Rakow. "It has been an unset­tling week on campus." 
At halftime of the game, ushers and security surrounded the court but were not confronted. 
Over 100 students staged a sit-in during the halftime of the University of Massachusetts-Rutgers game last week in protest of remarks made by the Rutgers president concerning the genetic background of minori­ties. He has since apologized for the remarks. 
John Blandford, co-chairman of GLND/SMC, laughed at the rumors and said that nothing had been planned. 
"It wasn't even under consid­eration. In fact, I'm a little insulted that the administration would think we would copy Rutgers," Blandford said. "l thought they would give us a little more credit that we could come up with something original." 
Country Florists & Gifts 
Remember your sweetheart with •the FrO • "Beary Valentine Bouquet" or choose from one of our many in-house bouquets. We deliver! 
VISA 

Charge by phone@ 291-3937 

F 
-~-~ 
----~­

t 
t page 18 The Observer· SPORTS 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBALl 
Opponents pack their bags 
ByKCGOYER The turnaround came at 9:59 in the second Sports Writer half. The Irish had recovered from a three point deficit to play give a bucket-take a bucket for So, what did you do this weekend? three minutes. That's when Kari Hutchinson Ask the women's basketball team, and you'll and Letitia Bowen came in, Fields hit the 'J' and 
hear about two more victories for one of the 
the momentum took off. nation's hottest teams. On Friday night, the Irish Letitia Bowen was her usual force on the court, sent their conference rival the Butler Bulldogs and registered her third consecutive double-dou­scurrying home with their tails between their ble on Friday with 12 points and 10 rebounds. legs after defeating them 68-56. Then on "We rebounded better in the second half," Sunday, the Irish onslaught snuffed the Bowen said, "And we turned it up on defense." University of Illinois-Chicago Flames, 73-57. In keeping her characteristically hot shootingPack the JACC night on Friday turned into pack of late, Gaither was 9 of 13 on Friday night, fin­
your bags for Butler as the Irish sent them home ishing the game as the leading scorer with 18 with a snapped 6 game winning streak. Notre points. Gaither's showing was no small feat as Dame and Butler were still trading the lead as she was guarded by her tallest opponent in the 
late as the last ten minutes of the game, but an conference. Lieslie Schultz, a 6'5" senior, is 8-0 run sparked by a baseline jumper from Stacy Butler's leading scorer as well as the school's Fields put the Irish ahead for good. candidate for All-American honors. 
On Sunday night, the Irish extended their win­Fields was all hustle as she could be seen ning streak to 8 games as they earned their 13th scrambling for the steal and finding the open victory in 14 games. The University of Chicago­
player at both ends of the court. She fmished the Illinois came in with a respectable 7-3 record, game with 8 points, 4 rebounds, and game highs but was unable to improve it as Notre Dame won in assists with 5 and steals with 4. 
73-57. 
Recycle the 
come. With 10:06 remaining, goaltender Matt Eisler went 20
Fights 

feet out of the goal to beat OSU continued from page 20 right wing Bill Rathwell to the puck. After Eisler won the ·bat­
recorded his eighth goal of the 
tle, he was blatantly knocked to 

year off an assist from Harberts 
the ice by the frustrated 

and junior center Jamie Ling. 
Rathwell. 

"They just killed us in that 
What ensued was the biggest

first period," said Buckeye head 
fight of the season for both 

coach Jerry Welsh. "We 
squads. Both benches cleared 

weren't able to do anything to 
for several minutes, and penal­
stop them." 
ties were subsequently handed 

Downhill is right. With 12:20 
out to Bales, Lorenz, Ling, Dal 

to go in the second period, cen­
Grande, and Ben Nelsen as well 

ter Jay Matushak received a 
as to four Ohio State players. 

pass through defenseman 
Although Saturday night's

Davide Dal Grande and left 
game didn't have quite the ex­

wing Chris Bales and sent the 
citement, the result was just

puck flying past the out­
the same. The Irish controlled 

stretched glove of new OSU 
the game from start to finish on 
goaltender Kurt Brown. 
their way to a 4-3 victory. 

Friday was also a landmark 
Harberts, defenseman Cary

night for team captain Brett 
Nemeth, right wing Jeff 

Bruininks. He notched his ca­
Hassleman, and center Jay 

reer best tenth goal of the sea­
5804 Grape Rd., Mishawaka
Matushak registered goals for 

son with 15:56 remaining in the 
Notre Dame who improved its 
2n-7946 

first period to give the Irish a H•.IURS. 1 9 to 8 Sat. 9 to 6 Sun. I 1-5
record to 9-21-1 with the win. commanding 5-0 advantage. .....--------------------------, Just 30 seconds later, the Buckeyes broke the shutout 
WE'LL PAY YOU $33,500

with a meaningless goal, but the real excitement was still to 
TOWARD YOUR DIPLOMA. 


I 
You can earn more than $16,750 during a standard

Accelerated 
Army Reserve enlistment ... and another $6,840 if 
you qualify for the Montgomery GI Bill ... plus help
Program 

great skills 
••. ' I 
in paying off a qualified student loan up to $10,000, 

in Nursing 
+7.2. t * 
Kaplan students get the most
if eligible. 

po1n s 
complete test preparation materials 

• Earn a B5. degree in nursing 
You11 usually serve one weekend a month plus two 

available including computer-analyzed 
• Eligibility requirement 
weeks' Annual Training. And you'll serve with an 
practice tests, home-study materials, 

baccalaureate degree as of 
Army Reserve unit near your campus. 
a training library and teachers that 
really care.
May'95 
O"':er $33,500 toward college-for part-time 

Call: 1-800-KAP-TEST
• Program begins May 30, 1995 
serVIce. 
and ends July, 1996 

get a higher score
Application materials must be 
Think about it Then think about us. Then call: 

submitted by M.udt 1, 1995. 
(219) 234,4187 

For more information contact, 
BE ALL YOU CAN BE: 

Saint Mary's College.Adntission 
KAPLAN 
Office at (219) 2.84-4587. 
ARMY RESERVE 

• As documented in the May t994 Kaplan LSAT f'llrformance Study conducted by Price Waterhouse. 
MARK YOUR CALENDARS 
NOW! 
IRISH HOCKEY 
---vs.___ 
Punxsutawney Phil Nationally No. 1 ranked 
"The Groundhog" 
MICHIGAN/ 
7:30 I Sat., Feb. 25 " 
New SPRING Merchandise JustArrived. 

Joyce ACC 


The Observer/ Ruethling 
Both Butler and UIC came to the JACC only to leave with losses as the Irish keep their winning streak alive . 
IIa,ppy 
:a•~~ 
~..... 
~II_e:rii. 
Lo-ve9 

Jeii.~II.d 
I:Ie~-t;he::r 
·---· 
I I I 

Monday, Febraury 13, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
MIKE PETERS 


CALVIN AND HOBBES 
}'1\J\\-\ ... S0\1\I:.BCl\)~'S 1-\A'l\NG 1\ F\R.t::. l lOIJE. 1\\E. Sfi\t.\.L 

DILBERT 
I'r'l ASKING EVEI\YBODY TO QUANTIFY THEIR CONTRI­BUHONS TO REVENUE.. YOUR PAY WILL DEPEND 
ONIT 

2113 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 35 1985 film "­Williams" 
t Israeli port 36 Mexican coin 8 "Of -ISing" 40 Carte blanche to Flattened circle 43Fiyalonet4 Fall flower 44 Identical
t5ls under the weather 
45 Identically t8 Accumulation 48 Rancher's cattle 
t7 It's lined with 47 Lawn pests bars 
48 Ravel work t9 Palindromic 
52 Lair 

pop quartet 54 Polar covering 
20 Irritate 55 Makes21 Snoozing 
watertight 23"Justa-" 
8t When doubled; 26 Failures a Samoan port 
27 Leadership 62 1959 Doris Day group film 32 Rigorous exams 
HAirline to 34 Bay window Jerusalem 
\S~T \1 S\RI>.~GI:. \bW SMI:.ll'S A.RE SJ E\I()C!\1\~E. 
B\J\ WI:. Cr>-~1 llt.SCR\BE 
T\-\t.fi\? I 

BILL WATTERSON 

115 P.. l\TIL'C.
0\\, l \)\J~I'\0. \1-\1\\ t=\1~.£. 
l S\\0\llll 1-\t>..'lt. 
Bll.\.l~K'I. B\ll
\<.N<Mt-1 f:>-N.It-1\f>..l'S
l-11\'::. I\ SI'\ORK'<, BRMAB\5\\ 

ANSWER To PREVIOUS PUZZLE to Oct~ber s~ones t 1 Feelings, 1n slang

I f\EALIZE. Tf-\15 IS f-\ARD 1D QU.t\NTIFY BEC.t\U~E. 
YOU'RE DE5IGNING 
FUTURE. Pf\ODUCT-S BOT . 
SCOTT ADAMS 
A. BILLION DOLLARS 7 ITS A5 IF YOU CYNICALLY BELIEVE WE CAN'T TRACK 
TI-\E.SE. NUI"\BER5. 
THAT CROSSED f'\Y /"\.IND. 

87­Lackawanna Railway 
68 Hawaiian island 69 Cowgirl Evans 70 Actor Alan 71 Won't 
DOWN 
1 Door holder 2 Late tennis V.I.P. 3Followers: 
Suffix 4 Yard sections 5 Comic Johnson &Shape of St. 
Anthony's cross 7That guy's aYale Bulldog 9 Bake in sauce 
12 PlaywrightEdward t3 Bounds t8 "The A-Team" star 22Stranded 
sailor's call 24 Central arteries 251ndulged in reveries 27 Corny
throwaways 
29 Watch's face 
30 Nevada city 31 Moose 33 Electrical unit 3&Gamewith 
sticks 37 Sinful 38 "For heaven's 
-1" 39 Bullring cries 411mpediment, at 
law 42Computer capacity, for short 

effie Observer 
Published Monday through Friday, fJ1U. 06seroer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found 
fJ1U. Ooseroer an indispensible link to the two cam­puses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive fJ1U. 06seroerin your 
home. 

48 Mrs. in Madrid 57 Beehive State 48 Two-legged 58 Actress Turner 49 Florida city 
59 Part of KKK. 500ver21, 
so Comicalliquorwise playlet
51 Pierre's school 63 Mr. Gershwin 
53 Sgt. or cpl. 84Cover
56 Shoemaker's tools 65 Conducted 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75$ each minute). 
Make checks payable: and mail: 
0 

CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 
.... 

"We finally got smart and had speed bumps installed." 

K 

I 
Toke a First Aid class with the American Red Cross. We11teoch you what you need to know to save someone you love...from choking, bleeding or dozens of other life threatening emergencies. Call your chapter of the American Red Cross today. And know it all. 
American+ 
Red Cross 
~

LL• 
AMERICAN RED CROSS CAMPAIGN NEWSPAPER AD NO. ARC-86-1078-2 COL. 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q 

...,. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Enclosed is $60 for one academic year. 
0 Enclosed is $35 for one semester. 
Name ____________________________________ Address_____________________________ City______State___Zip_____ 
.. 


SPORTS 
page 20 Monday, February 13, 1995 
• MEN'S BASKETBAll 

Wildcats prey on defense-less Irish 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR Associate Sporrs Editor 
The opportunity was there for the patented run, the stretch of streaky shooting and crazy bounces that has been the one consistency for an oth­erwise unpredictable Notre Dame men's basketball squad. 
Trailing by 16 at the break in an eventual 97-58 dismantling at the hands of the No. 5 Kentucky Wildcats, the Irish were in position to get the apa­thetic Joyce Center crowd back into the game and turn the momentum. 
The script should have read like this. A few Ryan Hoover three pointers. A Lamar 
see WILDCATS I page 17 
Matushak scoring, brawl highlight successful weekend 
By MICHAEL DAY 
Sports Writer 
Mission accomplished. 

When Ohio State came to town this weekend for a pair of games at the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. the Notre Dame hockey team had just one thing on its mind: beat the Buckeyes to
·-· 
avoid finishing last place. And the Irish did just that. In a series that had basement ownership on the line, Notre Dame came ready to play, whipping OSU 5-1 and 4-3 to all but secure a ninth place finish in the CCHA. Although Friday night's game was 
.... dominated by the Irish from start to finish, it will be most remembered for a wild, bench clearing brawl that occurred midway through the third period. In all, nine players received penalties in the melee, including a one game suspension for Notre Dame left wing Terry Lorenz. 

Although not normally accustomed to it, the Irish got off to a scorching start in the first period. Junior defenseman Jeremy Coe started a Notre Dame rally by intercepting a Buckeye pass in front of his own goal. He then found Lorenz wide open, who in turn, set up junior right wing Jamie Moreshead for his seventh goal of the year. 
Just three minutes later, the Irish struck again. Coe notched his first goal of the season when he received a pass via Lorenz and right wing Tim Harberts and sailed the puck past OSU goaltender Tom Askey with 13:53 remaining. 
Notre Dame wasn't through yet. At the 2:20 mark of the opening peripd, freshman Lyle Andrusiak, playing per­haps his best game of the season, 
see FIGHTS I page 18 

• JocK STRIP 
Notre Dame still looking for their own set of canines 
T
hey came in waves of blue and white, wearing baggy shorts with what looked like teeth painted on the sides. No molars, all sharp canines, these Kentucky Wildcats need not swallow opponents whole when. George they can gnaw them to Dohrmann paste. Sports Editor 

Notre Dame lost big Sunday, 97-58, and even that vast a margin might not describe the difference between these two teams. 

Center Jay Matushak was able to score a goal in each game this past weekend against the weak Ohio State team. The Irish won on Friday and Saturday, 5-1, 4-3 respectively. 


of note...
IRISH SWEEP OPPONENTS 
·' 
The women's basketball team swept both 
Check tomorrow's Observer for 
Butler and UIC over the weekend 
coverage of men's tennis 
see page 18 





