
Tuesday, February 14, 1995 • Vol. XXVI 86 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Business climate gets sunnier for graduates 
By EDWARD IMBUS business asked said they antici­positions 14 percent, from A>.mciare News F.diror. pated an average 5.9 percent 3,850 to 4,398, and that the increase in hiring of new col­most dramatic increases were 
1IJIJ3 was a stormy year for lege graduates. Last year, the in attempts to fill summer posi­undergraduate seniors looking hiring of new graduates in­tions, which increased 162 per­for employment to greet them creased 1.1 percent after de­cent, from 64 interviews in after college. The job market clining 30 percent over the 1994 to 168 to date. was tight, and many students prior four years. The types of companies in­graduated without securing a Director of' Career and creasing their active recruiting job. 1994, however, saw the Placement Services Kitty however have been so broad as end of' tho trend. as the job Arnold was cautiously opti­to "defy generalizing. They are market aetually grew, although mistic about the national trend more smaller organizations hir­just slightly. being imitated at Notre Dame. ing," but their fields of work 
The forecast for 1IJIJS looks "1994 was the pits!" she stat­were varied. even better, as an improved job ed, noting that the job market The prime beneficiaries of market is providing many more was the worst it had been in 25 the increase from Notre Dame opportunities to seniors. ac­years. even with its slight gain are alumni, she said, because cording to a survey by the Col­as the number of people com­companies are generally look­legiatn Employment Hesearch peting for employment grew ing to fill jobs quickly, rather Institute at Michigan State Uni­more than the job market. than wait until graduation in versity and data from Career She confirmed that compa­May. and Placement Services. nies did increase their on-cam­Also being eagerly sought are 
According to the survey, 545 pus interviews for permanent 
see JOBS I page 4 

Success leads ND Mock Trial Team to nationals 
By MELANIE LAFLIN Suprock, and Alex Fisch from News Writer Saint Mary's received out­standing witness awards. 
Despite objer.tions, witnesses Dave Horan, president of the lying on the stand. long ten Notre Dame Mock Trial Team, hour days. a flat tire, and a commented on his overall im­rontal van engine exploding, pressions of the tournament. "I the Notre Dame Mod Trial feel everything went really Team withstood the competi­well, though I feel our third tion this weekend during the team should have received a Mock Trial Hegionals held in bid to go to nationals over some Tol1~do, Ohio. of the other teams," said 
Three teams and one alter­Horan. nat«~ team. r.onsisting of thirty Each university competing in Notre Dame/Saint Mary's stu­Regionals was given a case donts. made the trok to Toledo. packet several months ago to Two teams ended up qualifying study, analyze. and prepare for for nationals coming up March this past weekend's tour­30 through April 1 in Des nament. The Notre Dame team Moirws. Iowa. began preparing last October, 
Notre Dame students Jen starting with tryouts. Buppel and Drew Klein re­~we, unfortunately, had to ceived outstanding attorney cut several people since we 
Pie on your face 
awards. while three others, Matt Mahoney, Maribcth Three students compete in the pie eating contest held at South Dining Hall's Night Oak Sunday night. 
see TRIAL I page 4 
SMC offers 'Spirit of Blackness' Health Center sponsors 
post-grad servic·e award Festivities hope 

Play profiles African­
By TIM GREEN vides an $8,000 stipend to News Writer cover room and board for the Dooley volunteer; Notre Dame's 
to celebrate 
cultural diversity 


American experience 
The Thomas Dooley Service Center for Social Concerns,By LAURA FERGUSON By LAURA FERGUSON Written by junior Alia Paige, :1\ward, currently in its first which lends its assistance in 
Saini Mary's News Editor Saint Mary's News Editor this play of three mini-acts at­
year, provides one Notre Dame the annual process of selection tempts to pool experiences of 
pre-professional graduate with of the award winner; and the In celebration of cultural di­One of the main purposes 'of life at Saint Mary's through the opportunity to explore the staff of St. Joseph's Health versity. the Sisters of Nefertili 
field of primary medicine Center, whir.h provides its
the "Spirit of Blackness" week the eyes of an African­of Saint Mary's College arc of celebrations is to awaken American Saint Mary's stu­through a one-year service pro­resources and guidancesponsoring the first "Spirit of ject. The recipient works at throughout the year of service. 
the entire Saint Mary's com­dent. 
Blackness Week" from Feb. 13­munity to the diversity already "I took four separate in­the St. Joseph's Health Center, The Center for Social Con­
19. 
present on campus. One stances of racism on this cam­providing medical assistance cerns is now accepting applica­
The festivities start this 
unique event aiming to pus and used creative license and social advocacy to the tions from Notre Dame gradu­evening with "Awakenings," a needy. ating pre-professional seniorsaccomplish this is the perfor­to pull them together," said 
play written by junior Alia 
mance of a student play titled The award was named after for the Dooley award. 
Paige, president of the Sisters "Awakenings.·· 
Thomas Dooley, a 1948 Notre Volker Blankenstein, a 1993
see PLAY I page 4
of Nefertiti. This play will pre­Dame pre-professional gradu­Notre Dame pre-med graduate,sent a day in the life of one will be requested for the con­"People always think of big ate who served as a physician is the initial and current DooleyAfrican-American student at tinuation of multicultural names such as Oprah Winfrey to poor and underdeveloped Award recipient. He has been Saint Mary's and will be staged events at Saint Mary's. In addi­and Michael Jackson but not people in Southeast Asia. The responsible for much of the in the Haggar Parlor at 7 p.m. 
tion to the choirs, a drill team the people down the street; but award program seeks to emu­program's design, installation,A poem written and read by will perform their movements success is really what is in the late Dooley's work by accom­and development.
Leslie Field, also a Saint Mary's to bible verses during the choir heart," said Alia Paige. She modating the medically under­"The award provides a pow­student, will prelude the per­festival. described her sister, Dr. Paige, served residents of St. Joseph erful and unique opportunityformance. Audience discussion Dr. Sophia Paige, a motiva­as "real, not someone who and Marshall counties. for students of medicine which will follow the presentation. 
The Dooley award service goes beyond the boundaries oftional speaker, obstetri­can't be touched." 
On Wednesday, three local cian/gynecologist, and sister to During her collegiate career, program has been made pos­classroom education,"gospel choirs, including the Vic­Alia Paige, will present a lec­Dr. Paige was the first student sible through the combined ef­Blankenstein said. "It's an in­tory and Praise Gospel Choir, ture entitled "Success-One of any gender or race to serve forts of three groups. They are credible experience that has will perform at 6:30 p.m. in the 
Woman's Perspective" in the Notre Dame Alumni Club of 
Haggar Parlor. A $1 donation Carroll Auditorium at 7 p.m. see PREVIEW I page 4 St. Joseph Valley, which pro-see DOOLEY I page 4 


The Observer/ Tom Perez 
page 2 


What money 
can never 
buy 
With today being Valentine's Day, it is appropriate to consider the question: What is love? Now many of you may consider yourself "in love," but just what is this strange emotion that we seem so fixed on. Eric Ruethling 

We are bombarded 
Photographer
with different viewpoints on the matter every day. From John 3:16 where, God is so loving that he is willing to give up his son, to shows like "90210" and "Melrose Place" flaunting their versions weekly on TV, albeit quite different from what John had in mind. It perforates our music, singing out just as well from the fourth act of Mozart's "The Marriage of Figaro" to Sir Mix-a-Lot telling · us how he's the "Monsta Mack". 
Science has tried to pin it down with theories and tests, with bio-chemistry and psychology, with PMA's and oedipal complexes. Philosophers, theologians, and artists have tried to capture the essence, the meaning that is love. Both sides have had minimal success. 
It is obviously an intriguing concept, but I feel that we're all being duped. Slowly, over time, this day which is supposed to celebrate "romantic love" has become just another Hallmark holiday. 
It is surrounded by weeks of planning by storekeepers. There are now set decorations and displays put up in stores to celebrate this unmatchable feeling. A sort of garish "Monty Haul" attitude seems to prevail as each one asks the lover they know best, "So what did you get him/her?" A corporate invention, which preys on some of our most primeval feelings, can turn into a materialistic night­mare. 
While you may not chose these words, the thoughts that generate them are common to us all. It's like receiving only a fraction of the gifts you thought you would get for Christmas. While mother tells us to be happy for what we have, there is an imp of discontent lurking about in the cellar of our soul. This is always true with un-fulfilled expectations. 
We live in a age where love can be bought and sold. "How mad is she?" Just buy a big­ger bouquet like the sign says. Can't get the words in your mouth to tell that someone something? Carnations are your way out, man. Is there anything that a box of choco­lates or a fuzzy animal can't fix? You know the apocalypse is upon us when even True Value hardware stores offer Valentine's day specials. 
Now, I'm not here to say that love cannot exist in true form anymore, nor am I here to tear bitterly into Valentine's Day. I am not against the truly meaningful gift, but instead stand against the blatant materialism that this day has become for some. It just seems that we have lost a sense of trueness these days, not in some magical "Princess Bride" true love sense, but where one expects to be loved through receiving something material. The thought of why we love clamoring in the back of our psyche, as one may be consumed with buying something for that sorteone. The meaning of the giving is lost within a swirling sense of materialism. 
John Alexander Joyce writes: "I shall love 
you in December, With the love I gave in May." 
I wonder for how many that still holds true. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

News Production Jamie Heisler Susan Marx Kristi Kolski Jackie Moser 
Sports Dave Treacy Accent Viewpoint Jenny Gunzelman 
Rae Sikula Pete Rubinas Lab Tech Graphics Eric Ruethling Tom Roland 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
----·-~----------­

The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, February 14, 1995 
• Wm~U.l AT A GLANCE 
Winter storms dump snow triggering deadly avalanches 
A fierce winter storm brought an abrupt 
nities. Some hotels offered lobbies and con­
halt to unseasonably high temperatures in ference rooms, and Vail opened its Town 
the Northwest and dumped up to 5 feet of Council chambers for the night. 
snow in the Rockies, triggering deadly The storm dumped up to 5 feet of snow in 
avalanches and causing hundreds of car Colorado's Crested Butte area, 4 feet at Vail 
accidents. and Beaver Creek and nearly 4 feet at Winter Avalanches killed one skier in Colorado Park. Beaver Creek ski area had to close 
and another in Utah. A search resumed this " speeds up to 100 mph. because the snow caused a power failure. 
morning for a third skier reported missing In California's Sierra Nevada, wind gusted
'-''I!!M""""~· ·,;t:, '· ~ 
at Winter Park in Colorado. The National + Most avalanches occur to 100 mph today at higher elevations in the during or just after big .
Weather Service reported more than 60 Lake Tahoe area.
storms when new snow is ' 
avalanches in Colorado within a 48-hour In the Northwest, 14 inches of snow fell at 
period after snow began falling there on Brinnon, Wash., and the area around 
Friday. Portland, Ore., got up to a foot. 
"There's too many avalanches to count," Portland this morning had ice-coated roads 
said Dougal McCarty of Colorado Avalanche and a wind chill below zero, closing schools
+Ski patrols use explosives toInformation Center. "It's just total mayhem cause snowslides, reducing and colleges. Last week, the city had highs in risk of major avalanches.
out there." Three cars were buried by an the 60s. 
avalanche Sunday on Interstate 70, + Most avalanche victims die in The storms caused hundreds of accidents :u~s~r, many in five
Colorado's main east-west artery. There throughout the Northwest on Sunday, includ­
were no injuries. ing a 20-car pileup on Interstate 82 near
+In Switzerland es many as 100Highways through Colorado's Berthoud, people die in avalanches. The Kennewick, Wash., that seriously injured one 
average for the entire Alpine
McClure and Loveland passes were closed reglon is 150-200 deaths per person. year.
today so road crews could set ofT blasts to Wind gusting to 80 mph in Washington cut 
break up potential avalanches. Skiers and +In the U.S. there are an power to 70,000 customers and temporarily 
average of 20 deaths due to
other travelers stranded by closed passes avalanchee. halted passenger ferry service. About 25,000 
late Sunday overflowed hotel and motel customers remained without power this 
rooms overnight in Vail and nearby commu-morning.
APfTerry Kola 
Fight for surgeon general nomination Cafe offers coffee and computers 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 
Trying to salvage the chances of his surgeon general At Harvard Square's newest cafe, there are no nominee, President Clinton sent Vice President AI Gore dogeared copies of Baudelaire or Byron on the tables. No here today to affirm White House support for Dr. Henry photocopies of Sylvia Plath's poetry. No outlines for the Foster Jr. Gore, a former Tennessee senator, was meet­Great American Novel. The tables at Cybersmith are cov­ing with the obstetrician and participants of his "I Have a ered with computers. This is a place where people can Future" program for young people in two Nashville hous­have a cup of cappuccino and try all the computer tools ing projects. The White House, battling opposition to and toys they've been hearing about. "It's a lot easier Foster's abortion record, wants to shift the focus to the than I thought," said John Barbieri, pointing and clicking 10,000 babies he delivered and his efforts to reduce teen­his way to everything from Impressionist paintings to age pregnancy. The unusual show of support is the latest sports schedules on the Internet. Cybersmith, situated in in an aggressive set of moves to save the troubled nomi­a part of town crowded with coffee shops and bookstores nation. While most nominees are held from public view frequented by students and professors at Harvard, the until their confirmation hearings, Foster has defended Massachusetts Institute of Technology and other schools, himself in a Georgetown speech, a Washington Post arti­is not the first cafe to go on line. Seven or eight have cle and a national television interview. The selection is opened in Boston, New York, Los Angeles, San Francisco facing stiff opposition from anti-abortion groups, who are with a computer terminal or two in the back so cus­pressuring Republican senators. Foster says he has per­tomers can log on to the Internet. Cybersmith has 48 formed 39 abortions and supervised a drug trial in which work stations and technology: the latest multimedia titles, 55 more women ended their pregnancies. on-line services, virtual reality and video games. 
Use of informants 'out of control' Patient wounds two in hospital 
NEW YORK MESA, Ariz. 
Federal law enforcement agencies spent $97 million on A 71-year-old woman recovering from a hysterectomy informers in 1993, nearly four times what they spent pulled out a gun in a hospital and opened fire Monday, eight years earlier, the National Law Journal reported wounding two men, authorities said. There was no today. In its Feb. 13 issue, the New York-based weekly immediate word on a motive, police Sgt. Earle Lloyd said. quoted judges and others who said the use of informers Lloyd said Jean Dooley pulled a .38 caliber revolver from was getting out of hand. "The integrity of the criminal a knapsack brought her by her husband and began justice system is at stake," said Stephen J. Trott, who shooting outside a nurses' station in the general surgery headed the Justice Department's Criminal Division in the area of Valley Lutheran Hospital. Witnesses told police Reagan administration and is now a federal appeals that Mrs. Dooley dropped the gun after she emptied it court judge. "There needs to be better control and super­and was mumbling incoherently when security guards vision of informants." Michael Levine, who spent 25 subdued her, Lloyd said. "She doesn't even know what years as an agent for the Drug Enforcement city she's in. She's disoriented, and (detectives) can't get Administration an.d the Customs Service, contended that much out of her," Lloyd said. A nurse wounded in the federal agents have abdicated responsibility by allowing arm and back was in stable condition, Lloyd said. The "about 15,000 wild, out-of-control informants" to take other victim, an ambulance employee, was shot in the over investigations, even dictating what the agents do. abdomen and undergoing surgery. Mrs. Dooley, from "Problems with informants is an ongoing issue for us, but Mesa, had been at the hospital for three days, said Tracy the use of informants is essential to intelligence," White Scott, a hospital spokeswoman. Police said she would told the newspaper. "In many cases, using informants is remain at the hospital while recovering from her hys­the only way to proceed." terectomy. She was not injured in the shooting. 

Tuesday, Feb. 14 
Accu-Weather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, Feb. 14. 
ILL. 


COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1995 Accu·Weather, Inc. Pressure 
H L a t;SI rnJ 0 . (Z1 8 {)~u
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
VUI M.sociatlkt Preu 
Atlanta 47 27 Dallas 34 32 New Orleans 50 41 
Baltimore 33 14 Denver 21 -03 New York 27 13 
Boston 27 15 Los Angeles 58 52 Philadelphia 27 12

4,~,~~~~ {) ~ ~ 
Chicago 23 11 Miami 83 68 Phoenix 63 55 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Columbus 26 05 Minneapolis 11 .03 St. Louis 34 22 
Via Associated Press GraphicsN&t C1995 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Tuesday, February 14, 1995 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

The Observer/ Brandon Candura 
Works of literature 
J. California Cooper, one of the authors asked to read her works at the Sophomore Literary Festival, spoke last night in the Library Auditorium. 

HEY LADIES: DIRK BEDFORD is 22 today! Call 'em up, give 'em some lovin', and turn that frown into a great big grin! 



x2262 
P.S. Say Hi to Bubba 
-PV2 
Sophomores Freshmen 
• CAMPUS BRIEFS 
Special to the Observer Evangelization of Peoples, guages and literatures, 
serving as apostolic visitor Toumayan will return to the 
Rev. Charles Schleck, C.S.C., until 1974, as attache from Notre Dame faculty in the fall 
has been appointed Titular 197 4-86, and as undersecre­after serving for two years in 
Archbishop of Africa by Pope tary until today's appointment. Angers. 
John II. The appointment was The time and place of Father Since 1966, Notre Dame has 
announced today in the Schleck's episcopal ordination offered the year of study in 
Vatican newspaper will be announced at a later Angers, a provincial city in the Osservatore Romano. date. Loire Valley southwest of Father Schleck, 69, also was Paris. The program is a part.named joint secretary of the of the Centre International Pontifical Congregation for the ••• D'Etude Francaises at the Evangelization of Peoples and E. Jane Doering has been L'Un.iversite Catholique de 
presiden~ of the pontifical Mis~ appointed visiting professor of I'Ouest. 
sion Societies. The Congrega­romance languages and litera­
tion for the Evangelization of tures and director of the Uni­
Peoples is responsible for the versity of, Notre Dame's ••• 
support of churches in coun­Angers, France, program, ac­A team captained by senior 
tries without a local hierarchy cording to Isabel Charles, Sean Mauer ot' Troy, Ohio. 
and recommends candidates associate provost and director captured the championship 
for bishops for those countries. of international study pro­Saturday, Feb. 11, in the uni­
A Milwaukee native, Father grams. Doering has accepted versity of Notre Dame's 1995 
SchlE!ck is a 1948 University of a two-year appointment begin­College Bowl tournament. . 
Notre Dame alumnus and for­ning in August. Mauer and classmates Dave 
mer faculty member in theol­An adjunct and visiting pro­Dietrich of Phoenix. Ariz.; 
ogy. He entered the Congrega­fessor at Notre Dame since Matt Fischer of Mesa, Ariz.; 
tion of Holy Cross in 1941 and 1985, Doering has also taught and Tyler Hower of 
was ordained in Home in at Northwestern University, Huntington, Ind., defeated the 
1951. Indiana University-South team of Steve Smith, Rob Bleil, 
After rece1vmg his Bend. and L'Universite Katie Walter, and Matt 
undergraduate degree in phi· Catholique de l'Ouest in Schaub. 
losophy from Notre Dame, he France, the site of the Angers Mauer's team will represent 
earned advanced degrees in program. Notre Dame in the College 
theology from Saint Thomas Doering earned a doctorate Bowl regional tournament 
University in Rome. Between in French from Northwestern Feb. 24-26 at Quincy Colleg,e. 
1953 and 1968 he was afacul­in 1992. She holds master's 
ty member, first, at Notre degrees from Notre Dame and Created in 1953, the College 
Dame. then at Holy Cross Goucher College and a bache­Bowl is the world's longest 
College in Washington D.C., lor's degree from Douglass running general knowledge 
and at the Collegio di Santa College of Rutgers University. quiz competition. Four-stu· 
Croce in Rome. ije also was In 1970·72 and 1976-78, Do­dent teams from campuses 
dean of studies at both Holy ering assisted her husband, across the country compete in 
Cross and Collegio di Santa Bernard Doering, Notre Dame a question-and-answer game 
Croce. · prbfessor emeritus of romance that tests knowledge in every­
After spending four years as languages and literatures, thing from history, literature, 
a consultant for religious com· when he served as director of science, religion and geogra­
munities in California, he re­the Angers program. The Do­phy to current events, the arts, 
turned to Rome as apostolic erings are the parents of three social sciences, sports, and 
visitor for tbe Congregation for Notre Dame graduates. popular culture. 
Religious and Secular Doering succeeds Alain Dubbed the 'varsity sport of 
Institutes. In 1972 he began Toumayan as director of the the mind," the College Bowl 
his long association with the Angers program. An associate was televised weekly from 
Congregation for the professor of romance Ian-1959-70. 
Recycle The 0 b s e r v e r !I 


Seniors Juniors 
' 
C'ouNs~" 


Maximizing Academic Performance in Undergraduate Study 
(A workshop using the insights of sportpsychology) 
This is a brief workshop designed to provide undergraduate students in any discipline with techniques often used in sport psychology to help you achieve yourbest academic performance. 
It will focus on techniques for: ·improving your academic productivity ·dealing with anxiety contagion from other students during high-stress times (e.g. midterms, finals) 
• 
handling performance anxiety in writing papers, making presentations, and taking exams ·improving your ability to pace yourself in your academic studies ·dealing with academic setbacks ·getting effective rest and avoiding academic burnout 

•
focusing your energy more quickly 


Presented by: 

Dominic 0. Vachon Ph.D. 
StaffPsychologist, University Counseling Center 
Wednesday, February 1 S, 199 S 12:15 p.m.-1:00p.m. (Bring your lunch!) LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame Room, 2nd Floor Sponsored by the Vniversity counseling Center 
-
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, February 14, 1995 


Trial 
continued from page 1 
could only bring three teams this year. Our alternate team really helped out by timekeep­ing and being ready to compete during the trials," commented Horan. 
The plaintiff in the case, Pat Tompkins, was suing the Erie Railroad Company for damages after the train hit her as she crossed over the railroad tracks. 
Details in the case proved to be challenging for the attor­neys on both sides to counter. Tompkins, wearing a green Cumby suit to a Halloween party, had had at least three beers before driving her friend Sam Lackawanna home, while Casey Palsgraff, the head brakeman who tested positive for marijuana, wasn't sure the crossing signals were working that night. 
Notre Dame witnesses were well prepared. In one trial, 

Dooley 
continued from page 1 
opened my eyes to see the medicinal profession from a different angle, considering the 'human variable' of medicine." 
Blankenstein believes the project to be a helpful learning process for any prospective doctors. "Honestly, I think it will make me a more caring person and a much better physician in the future," he said. "Working in the clinic shows you on a daily basis how people are affected by hard­ship and disease; you learn to feel for your patients on a per­sonal level." He went on to add, "The importance of the Notre Dame witness Phil Jensen, playing the railroad engineer, pulled out his pro­tractor and began sketching the exact angle at which the road intersected the railroad tracks. 
Sunday, as well as Saturday, proved to be eventful. After one van was waiting in Toledo to fix its flat tire, the other van found itself stranded five min­utes from Notre Dame with oil oozing from its engine. 
While everyone huddled to­gether in the freezing cold in­side the van, Notre Dame stu­dent Michael Edney stood out­side for forty-five minutes hail­ing road crew workers and standing as a lookout for the other van. According to Ho­ran," If it hadn't been for Ed­ney, we would have thought it just another blue van and kept right on going." 
Mishaps aside, the Notre Dame Mock Trial Team proved to be a fierce competitor this past weekend and is looking forward to the upcoming tour­nament. 
program is the focus on physi­cian-patient relationships ... the concepts of 'health ministry' and 'patient advocacy' are really what it's all about." 
All 1995 Notre Dame pre­professional graduates inter­ested in a career in primary medicine and willing to defer their medical school admission for one year are encouraged to seriously consider participa­tion in this project. 
Applications for the Thomas Dooley Service Award Project are now available at the Center for Social Concerns. The application deadline is set for February 27. For further information, interested stu­dents may contact Volker Blankenstein at the St. Joseph's Health Center. 
Happy Valentine's Day! Love, The Observer 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre with The Acting Company present: 
Drama Division 
Thurs., Feb. 16, 8 pm Fri., Feb. 17, 8 pm Sat., Feb. 18, 8 pm 
Reserved Seats $14 Students and Senior Citizens $10 
Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office 
MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128 
~ACTING 
COMPANY 
J'ltt A-«4~ ~ ~ 
ZELDA fiCHANDl£R MARGOT HARlEY Artiii!C Director r.."'uhve Pmducf'f 



Preview 
continued from page 1 
on the Board of Trustees at Ohio State University, and at the completion of this year, she will be the first African-Ameri­can woman in 50 years to com­plete the UCLA residency pro­gram. 
On Friday, a movie marathon of black silverscreen classics will showcase movies such as "Uptown Saturday Night," "Trading Places," "The Wiz," "School Daze" and "Superfly." The marathon begins at 4 p.m. in Carroll Auditorium. Admis­sion is $1. 
"We chose movies to reflect all different aspects of different black filmmakers," said Rae­que! Mitchell, treasurer of the Sisters of Nefertiti. 
"Nefertiti's Jam," a party open to all students, will rock 

Jobs 
continued from page 1 
graduating students with com­puter skills, Arnold said em­ployers have frequently told her. Such skills, however, are difficult to evaluate unless a student has taken computer courses or has work experience with computers. 
She also agreed, however, with the survey's finding that employers are also increasingly stressing writing and commu­nication skills. "Arts and Let­ters students usually have a 
Play 
continued from page 1 
Paige. 
As an example, Paige in­cluded a memory of moving in for the semester with her brother's help. She said she heard a woman make a state­ment to the effect of "Poor thing must not have any par­ents." 
"It wasn't overt, but it hurt 

the Haggar Parlor on Saturday from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. Admis­sion to this event is also $1. 
The week of events will close with a Kwanzaa Celebration in the Regina North Lounge at 1 
p.m. Brother Sage, from South Bend, will join the Saint Mary's community in celebration of this interfaith thanksgiving. 
According to Paige, the origi­nal purpose of a Kwanzaa celebration was for African farmers to offer thanksgiving for the new harvest and the gifts they had. 
In addition to the celebration, traditional Kwanzaa dishes will be served. 
According to Paige, the pur­pose of the week long celebra­tion is two fold. 
~·For African-American women, it is a week of black pride," she said. "Also many ladies on campus are very con­servative and are not used to 
good command of language be­cause they are exposed to and expected to do more writing," and employers are specifically looking for such skills more and more. 
Students had not been sur­veyed to determine the number that had successfully found em­ployment for after graduation, but she expected it to be higher than last year's total because of the higher amount of on-cam­pus interviewing, the heavy re­cruiting of accounting majors during the fall semester, and the expectation of several firms to recruit towards the end of the year. 
my feelings," she explained. "Because people are ignorant, they make assumptions on me." 
As the students involved in the planning of the "Spirit of Blackness Week" discussed the play, Paige said that similar in­stances surfaced with everyone in the club. 
"There are just little things that shouldn't be happening," she said. "This play is about ig­norance and looking into your­self and awakening yourself be-dealing with black people. We want to say this is who we are and allow those students to get to know us better." 
Mitchell agrees that this is a week of sharing. 
"We want to share ourselves with the Saint Mary's commu­nity and share our culture as well as celebrating ourselves," said Mitchell. 
This is the first year that a week long celebration of African-American culture has been organized by students at Saint Mary's. 
"In the past, celebrations didn't go far into cultural as­pects," said Paige. "We stepped in to present our culture." 
"The Spirit of Blackness" week is sponsored by the Sis­ters of Nefertiti, the Student Activities Board, the Board of Governance, the Office of Multi­cultural Affairs, and Campus Ministry. 
She was worried, in fact, that some students may miss "great opportunities" by dropping out of the active interviewing pro­cess too early. though she ac­knowledged that the interview­ing process was rigorous on students. 
She warned, though, that the percentages were slightly mis­leading since the number of jobs for last year was low. "I don't want to give the implica­tion of a banner year. Our stu­dents are talented, but it is still a rough market." 
Information from the Chicago Tribune contributed to this ar­ticle. 
cause these little things could be happening within you." 
Acting in the play is Erica Williams and Martha Moylan, both Saint Mary's students. Other characters will be in­volved but will perform in sil­houette behind backdrops so the audience will not attach an action with specific faces. 
A discussion with the audi­ence will follow the half hour performance so that the audi­ence can bring out their feel­ings, according to Paige. 

1995 Sopho re Literary val * REA___ G Sarah IraM. Jason Wi *8PM TONIGHT--Hesburg Library Auditorium*  

Tuesday, February 14, 1995 
The Observer • NEWS 
Americans naive about sexual diseases 
By LAURAN NEERGAARD 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 
Americans don't know their risk for sexually transmitted diseasHs or their partners' sex­ual histories, and consequently don't protect themselves, says a survey to be released Tuesday. 
The survey, funded by phar­maceutical giant Burroughs Wellcome Co., found 75 percent of Americans don't believe they could catch a sexually transmitted disease, even though doctors diagnose 12 million new cases -not count­ing AIDS-every year. 
"The message is: Know enough to assess your risk be­fore you decide not to worry" about sexually transmitted dis­eases. "It's a serious problem," said Ethel Klein of EDK Associ­ates, which conducted the sur­vey for Burroughs, a manufac­turer of drugs for treating the diseases. 
The survey marks the release of a new booklet, developed by a coalition of medical organiza­tions, with explicit instructions for detecting the often hidden symptoms of sexual diseases. The government says one in four Americans may get a sex­ually transmitted disease, which left untreated can cause infertility or even death. 
The survey of 1,000 adults at­tempted to assess Americans' sex lives, but turned up contra­dictions that Klein says illus­trate people's "very compli­cated feelings about sexuality." 
p;l PERI ARNOLD  The Observer/ Brandon Candura Love songs  
PROFESSOR OF GOVERNMENT  Will Bennett, a Dillon sophomore, sells "singing valentines" for the Notre Dame Glee Club.  
SPEAKS ON  Supreme Court grants sole  
''DO WE REALLY NEED  custody to biological father By LAURIE ASSEO was 4 days old, identified only  
Associated Press as John and Jane Doe, still are  
GOVERNMENT?''  free to file a formal appeal of WASHINGTON the Illinois court's decision. The Illinois couple who have The court turned down re­raised Baby Richard since he quests for an emergency order was born nearly four years ago filed by lawyers for the boy and  
Wednesday, February 15  lost another Supreme Court the couple. battle today in their struggle to retain custody of the boy. Justices Sandra Day 
7:00p.m.  The justices, on a 7-2 vote, O'Connor and Stephen G. refused to block an Illinois Breyer voted to grant the stay.  
at  Supreme Court ruling that gave O'Connor wrote for the two that custody of Richard to the the top Illinois court "evidently  
St. Edward's Hall  biological father he has never did not apply a recent amend­met. ment to the state adoption Lawyers for Richard and for laws" that may require a hear­the suburban Chicago couple ing to determine the child's who have raised him since he best interests.  
~OBSERVER  
is now accepting applications for the 1995-96 General Board Any full-time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. Please submit a three page statement ofintent with a resume to john Lucas by Wednesday, Feb. 15 at 5 p.m. For questions about the application process orfor more information about any position, call The Observer at 631-4541. NEWS EDITOR ADVERTISING MANAGER Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The News Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story and series ideas Advertising Manager oversees an assistant and a staff of account executives and and is responsible for the content of the news section each day. is responsible for generating advertising revenue. VIEWPOINT EDITOR AD DESIGN MANAGER Applicants should have editorial writing and editing skills and an ability to Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of QuarkXpress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager deal with the public. The Viewpoint Editor manages a staff of copy and layout oversees a staff of designers, works closely with advertising and marketingeditors and columnists and decides what letters will run each day. departments and is responsible for the design and layout of advertisements. SPORTS EDITOR PRODUCTION MANAGER Applicants should have sports reporting, writing and editing skills. The Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience, knowledge Sports Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas of QuarkXpress and design, layout and newspaper production experience. Theand special sections, arranges travel accommodations for reporting trips and is Production Manager oversees a staff of night production designers and worksresponsible for the content of the sports section each day. closely with department staff on layout and design. ACCENT EDITOR SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have features writing and editing experience. The Accent Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge of Editor manages editors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas, and is computer networking. The Systems Manager maintains and updates the responsible for the content of the Accent pages each day. Macintosh network and printers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system. PHOTO EDITOR Applicants should have photography and developing experience. The Photo OBSERVER MARKETING DIRECTOR Editor manages a staff of photographers and lab technicians and must work Director will be responsible for generating new ideas and campaigns for advertis­closely with News, Sports and Accent department editors in assigning pho­ers. The marketing director will oversee one assistant and will work closely with tographs. Ad Design manager and account executives. Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and strong self-motivation. SAINT MARY'S EDITOR Any full-time undergraduate student at Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. CONTROLLER The editor manages Saint Mary's department heads, coordinates coverage Applicant must be a junior accounting major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. with Notre Dame staff, generates story ideas on the Saint Mary's campus and Jhe Controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operating budget and is responsible for the Observer office at Saint Mary's. taxes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and order transaction duties.  

page 6 
The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, February 14, 1995 
Future of balanced-budget in the hands of Democrats 
By DAVID ESPO 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
A year ago, Democratic Sen. Tom Daschle voted for a hal­anced-budget amendment to the Constitution, declaring con­trol of the deficits vital "for the sake of our children and grandchildren." 
Now his party's Senate leader, the South Dakotan is uncommitted on a nearly iden­tical measure that soon will come to a vote in that chamber. He says he still favors the idea, yet he is leading a Democratic effort to shield politically popu­lar Social Security from future cuts while demanding that Re­publicans outline the programs they'll slash to eliminate deficits. 
"The circumstances are a lot different," he said in an inter­view. A year ago, the Demo­cratic majority had outlined a "very clear blueprint" of the type of steps needed to balance the budget, he said. Now, the Republicans in charge are "unwilling to do that." 
Daschle's position as newly elected Democratic leader highlights his visibility in the Senate debate, but he's not alone. A small group of Democrats -some of them in the leadership, most of them moderate and conservative lawmakers who are previous supporters -hold the pivotal votes on the measure. 
Those senators include Democratic Whip Wendell Ford of Kentucky, Deputy Whip John Breaux of Louisiana, Byron Dorgan of North Dakota, Sam Nunn of Georgia and Jeff Bingaman of New Mexico. 
Sen. Kent Conrad of North Dakota, an opponent last year, is viewed by Republicans as a potential supporter, as is Sen. Ernest Hollings of South Car­olina. Hollings voted for the measure last year but he is now demanding that Social Security be exempted from bal­anced-budget calculations. 
"The reality is it may pass this year," says Breaux. That "makes it more important to see what the cuts are.... Last year, a lot of people thought it wasn't going to pass." 
The ramifications are poten­tially far-reaching. 
The measure is at the core of the "Contract With America" that produced a GOP majority in the House last year, and Re­publican leaders believe ap­proval is essential if Congress 
• SECURITY BEAT 
FRI., FEB. 10 ::\. 
12:01 p.m. A visitor was transport~ ed by Security to Saint Joseph Medical Center for treatment of injuries sustained during a fall. 
SAT., FEB. 11 
6:48 a.m. A visitor was transported by Security to Saint Joseph Medical Center for treatment of an illml$5. 
9:23 a.m. A Flanner Hall resident reported hit and run damage to his vehicle while parked in the B16 park­ing lot 
1 p.m. A Grace Hall resident reported hil and run damage to his vehicle while parked in the 003 park· inglot 
8:46 p.m. A Breen Phillips resident reported the theft of her bookbag from the Hammes Bookstore. 
SUN., FEB. 12 
12:19 p.m. Security arrested a Chicago, IL. resident for trespassing on University owned property. 
2 p.m. A Farley Hall resident reported receiving a harassing phone call. 

is to tackle the deficit effective­ly. 
The Republican National Committee announced televi­sion commercials Monday in the states of several uncommit­ted Democrats -Kentucky, North Dakota, South Dakota and New Mexico among them. The ads urge a call to the law­maker involved. "Tell him, 'Don't put the Democratic Party first. Put our children first."' 
Says Daschle: "The issue is of such magnitude and conse­quence to every senator that there's no party position here." 
Sponsors of the bill expect to have the support of 52 of 53 Republicans, with Sen. Mark Hatfield of Oregon the lone holdout. It takes a two-thirds majority to send the amend­ment to the states for a ratification drive. The House passed it last month. 
With polls showing 80 per­cent public support for the me·asure, Breaux concedes there's political risk in oppos­ing it, particularly for a senator seeking re-election next year. 
Sen. James Exon, D-Neb., who. supports the measure, says it may be a "win-win" sit­uation for Republicans: They win if their amendment passes and they win at the polls next year if it's defeated and they can use the vote to unseat Democratic incumbents. 
But Deftiocratic pollster Geoff Garin says the ultimate politi­cal consequences may be hard­er to predict. 
"There are some life and death votes in the world, but this is not one of them," Garin said. "The voters are for a bal­anced-budget amendment, but ... as soon as you start to deal with any of the consequences of balancing the budget, public support becomes much more mushy." 
Sen. Max Baucus, a Montana Democrat whose term expires next year, announced Friday that he would vote for the mea­sure this year after opposing it in 1994. 
Another Democrat, Iowa Sen. Tom Harkin, voted for a bal­anced budget in 1986 and against the measure that was defeated last year. He's ex­pected to seek re-election next year and is targeted by the Re­publican advertising campaign. 
NASA downsizes, suspends hiring 
By HARRY ROSENTHAL 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The National Aeronautics and Space Administration, under orders to cut its spend­ing $5 billion by the end of the decade, announced a hiring freeze Monday and a stop in promotions at the highest civil service levels. 
"We are in the beginning phase of a plan to downsize headquarters significantly,'' said agency spokesman Brian Welch. The order, issued Fri­day by administrator Daniel Goldin, bars transfer to head­quarters from NASA centers around the country but not moves from center to center. 
Testifying before the House space subcommittee, Goldin said he learned on Jan. 12 that President Clinton wanted NASA to make do with smaller annual budgets in the next five years. 
"When we lost the money, I was in shock," said Goldin. He said NASA had already cut its spending by 30 percent. 
NASA has given veteran em­ployees two opportunities in re­cent years to take a lump sum for early retirements. In the first buyout, 1,178 employees accepted; in the second, Goldin said, 657 signed up. 
The agency went from 25,000 employees a few years ago to 22,412 as of last December 1. At its height, during the Apollo moon program, NASA had 33,000 on its payroll. 
Goldin told the space sub­committee, which draws up NASA's financial authoriza­tions, that he would have final plans for downsizing the agency by May 17. But Rep. F. James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., the subcommittee chairman, said the numbers were needed by early next month. 
Under the budget sent to Capitol Hill last week by Presi­dent Clinton, the space station would receive $2.1 billion next year. Construction of the sta­tion is scheduled to begin in November 1997 when a Rus­sian propulsion and guidance unit is launched aboard a Rus­sian rocket. 
American officials are wor­ried that its partners in the Eu­ropean Space Agency may not be able to meet their commit­ments. 
"If the Europeans want to participate, they better make up their minds quickly," Sensenbrenner said. "Lack of. European decision is not going to slow down the United States and Russia." 
The Europeans are signed up to provide a pressurized laboratory module called Columbus. In return, some of the elements for the station will be carried aloft on ESA-made Ariane rockets. 
"The Europeans should not think the U.S. and Russia will assemble the station with Ari­ane 5s if the Europeans do not participate with the Columbus module," Sensenbrenner said. 
Likewise, with Russia, he said. 
"If relations between the United States and Russia get worse," he said, "The United States will maintain its inde­pendent capability to continue on with the space station. I have a letter from President Clinton that effect. That was the price for my support for the space station last year when it came up." 

Fate of crime bill uncertain 
By JIM ABRAMS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Under threat of a presidential veto, the House took up a GOP bill Monday that would give $10 billion in crime-fighting money to state and local gov­ernments and end the program to put 100,000 new police on the street. 
The final and most contro­versial of a six-part Republican package to rewrite last year's $30 billion anti-crime law also would eliminate funds set aside in the 1994 law for after-school and other crime prevention programs. 
Instead, state and local gov­ernments would receive block grants of $2 billion a year for five years to use as they wished to reduce crime and improve public safety. The GOP bill, as amended Monday, requires a 10 percent local match of fed­eral funds, compared with a 25 percent match in the 1994 law. 
President Clinton warned Congress in his Saturday radio address against playing "parti-
Campus Interviews February 28, 1995 
OLDE, America's Full Service Discount Broker,SM is looking for motivated people to establish a career in the brokerage business. 
OLDE offers: 12-18 month paid training program Potential six-figure income Excellent benefits 
If you possess excellent communication skills, general market knowledge and the desire to excel, sign up for an on-campus interview on February 28, 1995 in the Career Center. 
If you are unable to arrange an interview call: 
1 800 937-0606 
or send resume to: OLDE Discount Stockbrokers National Recruiting 751 Griswold Street Detroit, MI 48226 
~OLDE 
DISCOUNT STOCKBROKERS 
Member NYSE and Sll'C 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
san politics with police." He said he would use the first veto of his presidency to stop "any effort to repeal or undermine the 100,000 police com­mitment. Period." Clinton pledged during his presidential campaign to put 100,000 more police on the street. 
Attorney General Janet Reno, wearing a badge saying "100,000 Cops: Don't Go Back," was on Capitol Hill to rally opposition to the bill Mon­day. She spent the morning lob­bying Democratic and Re­publican members. 
"That bill is working and it's being done in a straightfor­ward, nonbureaucratic fash­ion," she said. "Congress must not move backward in the fight against crime." 
Republicans say their bill gives localities the flexibility to tailor anti-crime programs to local needs. 
"Washington simply doesn't have all the answers," said Rep. Martin Hoke, R-Ohio. "This one-size-fits-all approach to crime control is completely wrong," he said, adding that the pending bill does allow spending for crime prevention as long as law enforcement officers are involved. 
The 1994 law provided $8.8 billion in grants for new police over six years, of which $1.3 billion is being appropriated this year to put 17,000 more cops on the beat. It also bud­geted $3.9 billion for school programs, job and substance abuse programs, midnight bas­ketball, economic development, gang prevention and other crime prevention programs that would be eliminated as separate programs in the pend­ing bill. 


"THE FINEST IN OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING" 
·FOUR AND FIVE BEDROOM TOWNHOMES ·TWO BATHROOMS 
•SECURITY SYSTEMS ·KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE 
DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR, AND RANGE ·WASHER AND DRYER IN EACH UNIT ·GAS HEAT ·CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING ·PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT •24-HOUR MAINTENANCE ·ONE MILE FROM THE NOTRE DAME 
CAMPUS 
NOW LEASING FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 
232-8256 
r-------------------------------------------------------~------------­
Tuesday, February 14, 1995 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
21 Serbs indicted for war-crimes 
By MIKE CORDER 
Associated Press 
THE HAGUE, Netherlands 
Setting the stage for the first war-crimes trial since World War II, a tribunal on Monday accused 21 Serbs with commit­ting atrocities against Croats and Muslims interned in a Bosnian prison camp. 
Only one suspect is in cus­tody, a karate expert named Dusan Tadic, so the former Kozarac police officer may be the lone person to come to trial for crimes that include killings, torture, rape and beatings at the Omarska camp. 
Set up by the U.N. Security Council in 1993, the Yugoslav War Crimes Tribunal that an­nounced the indictments is try­ing to focus world opinion on the only instance of alleged genocide in Europe since the Nazi exterminations of Jews and Gypsies during World War II. 
The indictments cap a five­month inquiry involving 20 in­vestigators, attorneys and ana­lysts who traveled to 12 coun­tries to examine evidence and interview victims. 
Unlike the post-World War II tribunals at Nuremberg and Tokyo, which were organized by the victors with major sus­pects already in custody, the Yugoslav tribunal is attempting to try suspects from a conflict still raging. More than 200,000 people are dead or missing in a 34-month-long war. 
The indictments coincided with this week's budget discus­sions for the tribunal at the United Nations. The United Na­tions has so far allocated three months' funding, $7 million, out of a requested 1995 allocation of $28 million. 
Nineteen of the 21 indicted were functionaries at the Omarska camp in northwest Bosnia. None are among the better known of those accused of atrocities in the war because no direct evidence has been established between the politi­cal and military leadership and the crimes committed, a tri­bunal spokesman said. 
U.S. Secretary of State Lawrence Eagleburger identi­fied in 1992 as possible war criminals Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic and Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadzic, considered the pri­mary aggressors in the conflict. They were not on Monday's list. 
Nor were the Serb militia leaders Vojislav Seselj and Zeljko Raznjatovic, alias Arkan. 
The indictments focus more on guards and officers at the Omarska prison camp, a former mining complex used to intern Muslim and Croat intellectuals, professionals and political lead­ers about 100 miles from Sarajevo. All the victims were Croats or Muslims; all those charged were Serbs. 
Sp.. E'C,····I~AL·
... ..···· .:.··.·.·. .....:: ..! ·.:··· ,: .: .. 
'l~lN ~IYK 
@T.·..·&.a P~lla A. P.a. ·:••~e~,W~ 
• 
Wolf Tanning Btda 

• 
Facial Tanners 

• 
Luxurloua, Clean Private Rooms 

• 
Stereo I Body Cooling wHh Every Lounge 


Tan All You Can 
Minutes from campus
for one month $35.00 
State Road 23Jironwood Next to Papa John's 
Clooed Sun. & Mon.
272-0312 
Meeting Wednesday 
Feb. 15th 
7 p.m. 
12 7 Nieuwland 
Free Pizza! 
The commander of the camp, Zeljko Meakic, is the only sus­pect charged with genocide. He also is held responsible for murders, rapes and torture committed by his subordinates in the camp. Some 3,000 in­mates passed through the camp from May to August 1992. 
According to the indictment, Meakic personally beat his pris­oners with batons and other weapons upon their arrival. It said terror ruled the camp, with inmates routinely tor­tured, raped and killed. 
The one suspect in custody, the 39-year-old Tadic, is being held in Germany. A law allow­ing him to be handed over to the tribunal is expected to pass the German parliament in March. 
An investigator's statement, based on witness reports, al­leges Tadic and others forced one inmate to bite otT the testi­cle of another prisoner. That prisoner later died, along with two other people who had been beaten. 
Bosnian Serb authorities in Pale have rejected the U.N. court's jurisdiction so these cases, like those before, are un­likely to result in trial. 
"With the exception of the ac­cused Tadic, who's in custody in Germany, it's understood that the remaining accused still reside in the Prijador region, which of course is still under control of the Bosnian Serbs," said Graham Blewitt, tribunal deputy prosecutor. 
"At this point we have no reason to anticipate that there will be any significant coopera­tion in terms of surrendering individuals," Blewitt told re­porters. 
"I am not familiar with the (indictment) list," Karadzic said Monday. "Our constitution for­bids us to give up any of our citizens, but we are going to try anyone if you give us any evi­dence." 
Elections in Mexico end single-party rule 
By NICOLAS RAMIREZ 
Associated Press 
GUADALAJARA, Mexico 
Mexico's largest opposition party on Monday celebrat~d the biggest electoral victory of its history, which analysts said could help end 66 years of sin­gle-party rule in Mexico. 
The National Action Party claimed it won the governor­ship of the state of Jalisco, con­trol of the state legislature and 90 of 124 city halls, including Guadalajara, Mexico's second­largest city. 
"This triumph shows it is possible to change the govern­ment ... through the force of votes and not through the force of_ bullets," said Felipe Calderon, secretary-general of the center-right party, known as the PAN. 
Sunday's vote was a vindica­tion of President Ernesto Zedil­lo's promise of fair elections and greater democracy in Mex­ico. 
It also came three days after Zedillo sent troops to crack down on leftist rebels in the southern state of Chiapas, breaking a year-long truce. That move thrilled hard-liners in his ruling party and may have helped dissuade them from challenging Zedillo with a fraudulent election in Jalisco, analysts said. 
With 40 percent of the guber­natorial vote counted, the PAN's candidate, Alberto Car­denas, had 54.46 percent and the ruling Institutional Revolu­tionary Party candidate, Euge­nio Ruiz Orozco, had 35.9 per­cent. Eight other parties trailed far behind. 
Cardenas, 36, is a former mayor of Ciudad Guzman and a university professor. 

7Jear 9inny­
Jfearls & !Jfowersftom 7Jaffas 
You're /he 9realesfI 
Jfappy V_.7Jay! 
Yrom !lie Jl(eadow !J?oad9any 
BEAOONOR 
AT 
THE FIRST ANNUAL ENGINEERING BLOOD OONATION DAY 
WHO: NOTRE DAME STUDENTS, STAFF AND FACULTY 
WHAT: ANNUAL ENGINEERING BLOOD DONATION DA 
WHEN: 9:00AM TO 4:30PM, WED., FEBRUARY 15, 1995 
WHERE: STUDENT CENTER, ROOM 217, CUSHING HALL 
HOW: • MAKEANAPIDINTMENfRRACCN\IINIENfTIME o Affi03PACE&MKl-IANICALENGNGc:mc.L o CALL 631-5430 
•ORJUSTSHOW UP ATTHE STUDENTCENTER 
SPONSORED BY: PI TAU SIGMA 
"We accept the results .... We know the vote did not favor us," said Rafael Gonzalez Pimienta, state president of the governing party, known as the PHI. 
In the past, the PHI had con­tested claims of opposition vic­tory at the polls and had admit­ted losing only two statewide elections in its history -both to the PAN. 
For years, presidents have been promising to clean up Mexican elections, but oppo­nents have continued to accuse the PHI of using fraud, force ~nd public funds to maintain its hold on power. 
The last election before Zedillo took office in December, a November vote in Tabasco state, was marred by wide­spread fraud allegations. Militants within his party re­belled against Zedillo's efforts to solve the dispute in January, causing the president to appear weak. 
"It is very important that did not happen in Jalisco," said Jaime Sanchez Susarrey, a po­litical columnist and professor at the University of Guadalajara. "The government of the republic maintained con­trol." 
The election Sunday was the first since a sudden devaluation of the Mexican peso in Decem­ber slashed Mexicans' buying power and forced the country to appeal for international aid to save its economy. 
Sanchez suggested that the vote could be the first of a series of PAN victories and said the party has a chance to win control of Mexico's lower house of congress in the 1997 federal election. 
Three other states, all PAN strongholds, have gubernato­rial elections this year: Baja California, Guanajuato and Yu­catan. 
Other, local issues also fac­tored into the PHI defeat here. Many in Guadalajara were an­gry about a 1992 sewage explosion, blamed on the government, that killed more than 200 people. There is also widespread frustration over a wave of violent crimes, includ­ing the still unsolved 1993 murder of the city's Roman Catholic cardinal, Juan Jesus Posadas Ocampo. 
On Thursday, Zedillo sent the Mexican army after the rebel Zapatista National Liberation Army In Chiapas. That move pleased PHI hard-liners and helped wipe away an image of presidential weakness. 
Sanchez said the Chiapas events might have dissuaded any hardliners from thoughts of challenging Zedillo with fraudulent actions. 
"I believe the show of force In Chiapas was a warning ... that the president maintains his power," Sanchez said. 

Accelerated Program in Nursing 
• Earn a B.S. degree in nursing • Eligibility requirement: baccalaureate degree as of May'95 • Program begins May 30, 1995 and ends July, 1996 Application materials must be submitted by March 1, 1995. For more information contact, 
Saint Mary's College.Admission Office at (219) 284-4587. 

VIEWPOINT 
page 8 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advenising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Galla van Photo Editor....................... Scon Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor............... Elizabeth Regan Controller ..•.................................. Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of rhe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institmion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi~ torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor/Viewpoint Sports News/Photo  631-4541 631-4543 631-5323  Advertising Systems/Marketing Dept. Office Manager  631-6900I 8840 631-8839 631-7471  
Accent/Saint Mary's Day Editor/Production General Information  631-4540 631-5303 631-7471  Fax E-Mail Unix  631-6927 Observer. Viewpoint.1@nd.edu observer@boron.helios.nd.edu  
• CAPITOL CoMMENTS  

Society revels in negativism 

Like it or not, society loves to dinner which raised funds for a hate. Notre Dame football is a cable television station-the perfect example-its supporters station that carries his course. are loyal to the point of ob-Another stark irony of this noxiousness, while its oppo-situation is Gingrich's own nents loathe the Irish. The nac ethics complaint against former ture of politics, on the other Speaker Jim Wright in 1987. hand, is inherently the art of When Gingrich filed his sue­negativism. cessful complaint, he claimed 
A few weeks ago House that Speaker Wright's book Speaker Newt Gingrich cried deal violated House rules on "foul" when Democrats contin-outside income. At the time, ued to dog him with their ethics however, Gingrich's primary complaint regarding his outside motive was to force Wright, the "educational" activities. leader of the Democratic 
The Democrats contend that House, to resign, thus showing Gingrich how cor­received rupt and 
s e v e r a l bad "liber-
Ga 
large con-als" were.
rytributions His motives which ~repur~ 
::r~ :~p~ Caruso ~~tl~tic~:~ 
w hi I e ultimate teaching -----========------prize being
his politics a Republican course. The course is nothing takeover in the House. In his more than advice for conserva-mind, Republicans were the tive candidates on how to use minority party for forty years the Gingrich-style combative, because the "get along, go guerilla tactics to defeat along" method of compromising Democrats. Furthermore, the did not contrast his party course circumvents the cam-enough with the Democrats. paign and ethical rules govern-Gingrich's public history ing outside income. wreaks negativism. At every 
Gingrich counters the turn in the political process he Democrats by attacking them in also attempted to frustrate the his patented, negative manner. Democratic majority. His phi­Just as he attacked the press losophy was to grind the House for his mother's "secret" com-to a halt and then point out ment about Hillary Clinton, he how bad the Democrats were at turns and lashes back at ev-running the institution. Never erything he disdains like a cor-losing sight of his sole motive­nered pit bull dog. Gingrich to capture the House-he at­says that the Democrats are tacked President Clinton, liber­pursuing the complaint only als, Democrats, the press, and a because he is a conservative few made-up groups like the and opposes their political McGovernite elite. Now that he philosophies. His comments is the Republican speaker, he were made at a $50,000 a plate again cries "foul" every time the new Democratic minority uses the same Gingrichesque tactics against him. 
For Gingrich and his crew of conservative radio talk show hosts, keeping the image of lib­erals, President Clinton, and Democrats negative is their number one priority. 
If anyone should dare ques­tion Gingrich's $4.5 million book advance deal with a Rupert Murtock publishing company, they are "jealous, petty, and partisan." If anyone should suggest that the hun­dreds of thousands of dollars secretly contributed to Gingrich's GOPAC group is improper, they merely hate the "Newt Crew" conservatives. Their motto seems to be, "At­tack, attack, attack. If someone questions you, attack them." 
Many politicians and political consultants favor negativism because it is easier to find one reason to turn away from a candidate than it is to find sev­eral good reasons to vote for that candidate. Gingrich may have his day for now; but he will soon learn that when valid questions arise concerning him and his party's ability to gov­ern, his glass house will shat­ter. The American people will also eventually learn in 1995 that the more things change in Congress, the more they stay the same regardless of which party controls the agenda. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame '73. has worked in Washington 
D.C. at the U.S. House ofRepre­sentatives for two Congressmen and two House Committees. He is currently a "Displaced Democrat" seeking a new posi­tion. 
Dear Editor: 
In its February 7 edition, The Observer chastised candidates for student body offices for not debating "real problems" such as "multiculturalism," as well as other liberal issues. 
By "multiculturalism" we mean eating ethnic foods, see­ing ethnic festivals and ac­tivities, etc. And most im­portantly "respecting" other cultures. Yet how many "multi­culturalists" respect the strict beliefs of Middle Eastern coun­tries, which require women taking a lesser place in their society? What "multicultural­ists" really want from ather cultures is what is politically correct. 
This suggests that cultures were an not created equal, insofar as they are compared with the politically correct cul­ture. Multiculturalism is a meaningless concept because it ·does not mean. and cannot 
mean, what it says. 
However, we all know multi­
culturalism does not signify a 
diversity of cultures except in a 
superficial sense. 
Multiculturalism is promotion 
of the liberal culture. And it 
seems that The Observer's edi­
tors would be its high priests. 
ANDREW FESK.E Law Student 

Right-to-Life opposes violence 
Dear Editor: 
We, the undersigned, reject David Tyler's ("Losing sight of life and its sanctity," January 27, 1995) accusation that we incite an atmosphere of "fear, hatred and loathing" and wish to inform him that we neither accept, promote, nor "resort to violence and inflict harm on those who don't agree with (our) view on abor­tion." 
We are a pro-life group and value the dignity and respect that all life, from conception until natural death, rightly deserves. This dignity and respect for life is extended to all of humanity, including those who provide abortion services. Though we are diametrically opposed to the violence that they inflict on woman and child, we have never promoted nor advocated their death. In taking this stance, we at Notre Dame join other Right-to-Life organizations nationwide in condemning violence at abortion clinics. · 
While we abhor the few violent acts which have occurred out­side of such clinics, we will not blink away from the 4400 equally violent acts which occur each day inside American abortion clin­ics ... Because the media has not broadcast the press releases of all the major pro-life groups (including Operation Rescue) con­demning violence at the clinics, the American public has been unable to witness the cries for peace which the pro-life groups have issued. 
So we say God bless Mark, Erin, Bill and especially Shannon Lowney-and yes, Mr. Tyler, we say God bless John Salvi. May God have mercy on his misguided soul. 
ND/SMC RIGHT TO LIFE 117 supporters signed this letter 

• DOONESBURY  
TH.trr8Ucr£T PI?ET7YMU01 $AY,ITAU-, HON8Y. ..  !ftfl& 8/U OUTAT -120,000 A POP, 'N07HIN'M O/lPHAN5" aJUWC/.CAR13!i0,(.KXJ !N7H8 FII?ST YEAR!  

GARRY TRUDEAU 
I {)ON(KNO/M 5/R.
Y(){}MI6HT~CHAt-­tl3NGWON 9:M/3 OF YOUR. 'iUPFtJ51TI~ 
ABOUT7H& Nl£1)5 
OFCH/~ ... 
• QuoTE Of THE DAY 
''Love conquers all things; let us too surrender to love." 
-Virgil 

ACC~NT 
Tuesday, February 14, 1995 page 9 
·Beffers fa fie Boue 9orfrfess 
O
ver the past few decades students have 
commonly exchanged disgruntled 
unpleasantries and overall frustration when dealing with matters of the heart. Many oft-so-enlightened Domers and SMCers plausibly excuse these as problems in "Gender Relations" at Notre Dame-something completely out of their control and basically. the administration's faull. Our student body presidents have been heard to profess that "Student Government will not get you a date, " or something along those lines. but we here at The Observer believe that with assistance from the Love Goddess, you may hal'e a shot at understanding your current or future significant other regardless of their gen­der. 
Dear Love Goddess, 
I have been dating the same girl for four years and this whole Valentine's Day thing has gotten stale. I don't want to give her chocolate or nowers again. Any ideas? -Unoriginal from Fisher Dear Unoriginal Fisher Guy, 
Listen, if you cannot think of anything to give your best girl of four years, when the excitement of gift giving is gone, perhaps instead of finding a new gift idea, you should lind a new girlfriend. Or maybe your problem is that you're just cheap. 
Dear Love Goddess. 
I'm taking u friend of mine to my next SYR. The problem is, I overheurd that she may uttempt to luke advantage of me, which, A) could ruin our friendship, and B) I don't think she's hot anyway. How can I blow her off with­out hurting her feelings? -Bob Bob, 
A woman will sometimes forgive the man who tries to seduce her, said Talleyrand, but never the man who misses an opportunity when oiTered. 
Dear Love Goddess, 
I want to take my girlfriend someplace spe­cial on Valentine's Day, but we're freshmen und l~an't get ofT campus. What should we do? -Big Freshman Stud 
lley llunky Freshman, 
You obviously haven't heard about the Valentine's Day special at the Morris Inn. I'm sure you and your woman will find passion over meatloaf or pork chops. Do not be led astray, however, by the fact that it is a hotel. 
Another idea would be to take advantage of our wondnrful weather and have a nice romp in tlw snow. Make sure you stuff plenty-o-snow down lwr shirt-girls dig it, and there is an added bonus for you if her coat is thin. 
Of course, if you're like Unoriginal from Fisher, you'd probably settle for dinner at the Huddle and a nice walk around the lake where you can foidJiy attempt to sneak a few cheap thrills in, tlwn you will probably end up redeeming your­self with a shared prayer at the grotto. Bundle up, though, it's eold out there. 
Dear Love Goddess, 
What would the ideul date be for a girl? I huve a date with this cute little red-headed girl and I really want to make a good impression. -Joe Bob Brilliance Joe Bob. 
First ol'f, I commend you on your efforts to 
make the night special. I'm sure your hard work 
and thought will pay oil'. OK. I'd say blow a lot 
of money on dinner at the LaSalle Grill, or, of 
course, you could have pork chops at the Morris 
Inn if you're cheap like Unoriginal Fisher Guy. 
There is a new coffee shop downtown for coffee 
after dinner, which, as a Generation X-er, you 
really need to tune into. Depending on where 
you want th1~ relationship to take off from there, 
you could also head for the 'Backer if you need 
assistance in batting. 
I don't think any frills are necessary. Women 
want to be swept off their feet, not thrown to 
Eeuador. So, I would say to hold off on the hot 
air balloons, limousines, Glee Club Serenades, 
mushy love poems, and overall garbage which 
would take the simplicity out of a first date. This 
donsn't mean you cannot treat your maiden like 
a queen. Flowers arc always appropriate, and 
remnmber to open her doors. If she replies with 
all that feminist nonsense about being able to 
opnn it herself. graciously acknowledge the fact 
and let her open her own doors. I'm sure she at 
least appreciates the gesture. 
Dear Love Goddess, 
Where is the best place to find a partner love goddess? I really want to have a meaningful relationship with someone. -Sensitive Male Sweet Sensitive Male, 
Honey, it depends on what you're looking for. It also depends on your definition of meaningful. The range of possibilities is endless, kind of. 
To find a "partner," steal your brother's J.D. and head straight to the 'Backer. Once inside, saddle yourself up a Long Island Iced Tea and then lasso in a gal. Make sure when you publicly humiliate yourself by attempting to give her a throat culture on the dance floor and that you tell her she is "so awesome." You'll thank me later. 
Take advantage of the information superhigh­way. Become a MacLab whore. Many Eudora freaks will swoon at your knowledge of the key­board, your ingenuity and originality, and your ability to master SK long love notes. E-mailing can be a highly stimulating and intelligent ac­tivity. and while you're at it, check out the com­puter lab technicians. They're fluent on PC, too. Highly erotic. 
I personally think the best place is the book­store. A plethora of excitement awaits you. You can check out the girl before you even talk to her by looking at what she's buying. If her purchas­es include art supplies, biology books, a Neil Young CD, carpet cleaner, NO shot glasses, and travel books on Paris, Greece, or Mozambique, chances are she is a highly intelligent, well­rounded woman of the '90's. If her purchases include Midol, Tampax, Kotex, Russell Stovers chocolates, and the book "Men are from Mars, Women are from Venus," get the heck out of there. 
Dear Love Goddess, 
Why are all the righteous Babes taken? -Kevin Kevin, 
Perhaps you should just lower your standards. Did it ever occur to you that they are taken because they are righteous? 
Dear Love Goddess, 
Are Wonderbras appropriate? I want to wear one on Valentine's Day to get this guy to notice me, but will he be disappointed when, or if, he realizes it's only 2 extra pounds of cotton pads? -Victim of Society Dear Victim, 
Tough call. If you get a catch, yank that sucker out of the water before he can squirm free. You never know, your catch may end up being a shoe or a tire, or a dead fish even. Same is true with the male population. Once he's lured, you're pretty much set, but you may find out that he isn't as groovy as he seems. What's wrong with checking out his goods first? Chances are a guy who would really care is probably making up for some loss in another area. 
Dear Omniscient Goddess of Amore, 
Many women on this campus have told me I would be more attractive if I cut my hair, shaved and bathed on a more regular basis. I always thought women here possessed depth and looked for more in a man than personal hygiene. Am I wrong in thinking there aren't any women for me to date here? My love-life leaves me more frigid than three shaved poo­dles in a snowstorm. Help me Love Goddess! -Tom Dear Thomas, 
Listen, are you attracted to girls with beards? Also, from the sounds of it, how could you be cold if there are so many layers of fungus grow­ing on your body? I have various input from out­side sources on this issue. 
"I would just like to say that it is my conviction that longer hair and other flamboyant af­fectations of appearance are nothing more than the male's emergence from his drab cam­ouflage ... which is the birthright of his sex. There is a peculiar notion that elegant loomage and fine feathers are not proper for the male, when actually that is the way things are in most species." -from "Hair" 
"He that hath a beard is more than a youth; and he that hath no beard is less than a man: and he that is more than a youth is not for me; and he that is less than a man I am not for him." -Shakespeare 
Kim Massman is the Love Goddess 
• ACCENT ASKS••• 
Who would be your ultimate Valentine? 
"Betty Rubble-llove her giggle." 
Pat McDonough Junior Zahm Hall 





"Rocket Ismail." 
Kristine Tracy Freshman Lewis Hall 

"Other than my girl­friend, Patty O'~ara." 
Pat Holston Senior Fisher Hall 
"Harrison Ford." 
Jennifer Sutton Sophomore Pasquerilla East 

!Jor !he single Vomer... 
My guess is this constitutes the majority of you "I don't want a 
boyfriend/girlfriend anyway" Domers. Hogwash. Valentine's 
Day can be a curious time for all of you, full of sadness, unex­
pected joy. gallons of ice cream for the girls. and pitchers of 
beer for the boys. Take advantage of the holiday. 
Valentine's Day is the perfect time to finally get out there and 
show that someone you've had your eye on how much they give 
you the jimmys, how much your heart sings in their presence, 
how many nights were spent dreaming of him/her. You really 
have to just strap it on and go for it. 
For the single woman: 
Have the girls' night out to end them all. The female works­
cash-in on being a helpless female taken prisoner by the vari­
ous junk heaved upon you by the American capitalistic media. 
Buy fashion magazines, hair colorant. nail polish, and Virginia 
Slims cigarettes. You've come a long way baby, and you're 
worth it. Be sure to read the horoscope in Cosmo, as well as 
the agony column to alleviate any anxiety you have about "per­
forming." even though you may not be able to utilize the infor­
mation for a while. Rent "Fried Green Tomatoes", "Steel 
Magnolias", "Thelma and Louise": and "Sixteen Candles" just io 
sneak yet another peek at the being who is now so well known 
as Jake Ryan. Or you may opt for Lucky's workout video (he's 
the guy in the Diet Coke ads), and just watch it while calling up 
all your old boyfriends and telling them you faked ... a lot of 
things. Above all, don't rent any romance films-they'll just 
make you angry. Besides, I'm sure all the sensitive males on 
this campus have reserved them anyway "for that special 
night." My goodness, it's not like you're missing prom or any­
thing. Remember that. and you'll have a dandy time. 
' 
For the single man: 
Buy some Marlboros and a pitcher of the alcoholic stimulant 
(or depressant) of your choice. Complain about "Gender 
Relations" at Notre Dame. Go to the Linebacker. Feel better 
about "Gender Relations" at Notre Dame. 
--The Love Goddess 
.• 

page 10 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, February 14, 1995 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3p.m. All dassifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
The Lion King Fri & Sat Feb 17-18 $2 Cushing Auditorium 8/1030 pm 
Used Texts Cheap!! Check out Pandora's Books 233-2342 NO ave & Howard st 1 0-6 m-sat 9-3 sundays 
Attention Cyclists! 
Looking for students interested in helping to restart the cycling club. Mountain biker's and Roadies please respond. Need riders for National Collegiate MTB Championships Oct.95. 
Call Tucker at 289-5975 if you're interested. 
Passenger 57 Thursday Feb 16 $1.00 Lafortune's Montgomery Theatre 8/1030pm 
FLYING FINGERS TYPING SER­VICE. The Best in Quality Typing & Word Processing. We specialize in student papers (including Scientific, Spanish, French). $2/page (Your choice font, type size). During the day leave message at 289-7332. 
Volunteers needed to help run Troop NO's 2nd annual talent show for Friday, Feb. 24 at 7 P.M. Informational meeting on Wed.. Feb. 15 at LaFortune. 2nd floor lounge at 8 P.M. Call Lisa @ 273-6033 for more info. 
Come to the Saint Mary's Observer Office to place your classifieds Monday 2-4, Tuesday 
2:30-4:30, Wednesday 11:30-1:00, Thursday 2:30-4:30, and Friday2-4. 
..*WOMEN'S HEALTH FAIR*** Would you like to get 
a FREE MASSAGE? Do you want to learn more about SELF DEFENSE TECHNIQUES? 
Could you use some free samples from BATH and BODY? 
If you answered "yes• to any of these questions. please join us 
on Wednesday, February 15, from 3 to 5 p.m. 
in the LeMans Hall lobby at Saint Mary's College. ***WOMEN"S HEALTH FAIR*** 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST FOSSIL MAN'S WATCH. BLACK AND GOLD FACE. POSSIBLY BY TURTLE CREEK APT. REWARD. ADAM 4-4332. 
Found: ***BIKE LOCK KEY*** On 213195 brand name is "Rhode Gear". -Bill X1862 
REWARD OFFERED for KEYS lost somewhere between C1 and the Rock. Please call 232-1348. 
A week ago Thursday morning between the stadium parking lot and Declo faculty hall, someone picked up a dark green smoke case which had a solid brass lighter in it with my initials CTL on the outside. They were both gifts I would like to have returned. If you are looking for a reward please call 1-4507. otherwise would you please tum them in to the campus lost and found, they do not belong to you! Thank you. 
LOST: A LONG BLACK WOMAN'S PERRY ELLIS COAT AT FISHER­WALSH FORMAL LAST FRI. CALL CINDY AT 273-5399 
LOST: Black winter "GAP" cap. Please call x2027 with any info. 
WANTED 
two need ride-MEMPHIS, spr. break,$, x1943 
Painters. Foremen, and Managers­Call College Pro Painters at 1 (800) 346-4649. 
TENNIS JOBS-SUMMER BOYS CAMP-NORTHEAST-LOOKING FOR STAFF WITH GOOD TENNIS BACKGROUND WHO CAN TEACH CHILDREN TO PLAY TENNIS. GOOD SALARY, ROOM & BOARD, TRAVEL ALLOWANCE. CALL OR WRITE: CAMP WINADU, 2255 GLADES RD .• SUITE 406E, BOCA RATON, FL 33431 800-494­6238. RECRUITER WILL BE ON CAMPUS 3/6-DOOLEY ROOM­LAFORTUNE 
Spring Break! Bahamas Party Cruise 6 Days $27911ncludes 12 
Meals & 6 Free Parties! Great Beaches & Nightlife! A HUGE 
Party! Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights 
Air & Hotel From $4291 Spring 
Break Travel1-800-678-6386 
Florida's Spring Break Hotspots! 
PANAMA CITY OCEANVIEW 
ROOM WITH KITCHEN $1291 
WALK TO BEST BARS! Cocoa 
Beach (Near Disney)-27 acre 
Deluxe Beachfront Resort 7 Nights 
$1591 Key West $2291 Daytona 
Room with Kitchen From $12911­
800-678-6386 
Spring Break! Panama City! 8 Days Oceanview Room with a Kitchen $1291 Walk to best bars! Includes Free Discount Card which will save you $100 on foodldrinksl1-800­678-6386 
RUN YOUR OWN BUSINESS, GAIN VALUABLE EXPERIENCE WHILE BUILDING YOUR RESUME. EARN UP TO $10,000 (25 JOBS) HIGH DEMAND PROD­UCT, IRRIGATION SALES AND INSTALLATION. BE A LEADER: VEHICLE ~QUI RED CALL STU­DENT SPRINKLERS AT 1-800­265-7691 
SUMMER JOBS-COUNSELORS & STAFF BOYS SPORTS CAMP/MASS. TOP SALARY RMIBD/LAUNDRY, TRAVEL ALLOWANCE. MUST HAVE SKILL IN ONE OF THE FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES: Archery, Baseball, Basketball, Drums. Football, Golf, Guitar, Ice Hockey, Lacrosse, Lifeguard, Nature, Nurses, Photography, Piano, Pool, Rocketry, Rollerblading, Ropes. Sailing. Scuba, Secretary, Soccer, Tennis, Track, Video, Waterski, Windsurfing, Weights, Wood, Yearbook. Call or write: Camp Winadu, 2255 Glades Rd., Suite 406E, Boca Raton, FL 33431, (800)494-6238 Recruiter will be on campus DATE: 316 TIME: 10:00am­4:00pm PLACE: Dooley Room -Lafortune. STOP BY-No appoint­ment needed. 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­Earn up to $2,000+/month working on Cruise Ships of Land-Tour com­panies. World travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean. etc.). Seasonal and full-time employment available. No experience neces­sary. For more information call 1­206-634-0468 ext. C55843 
Need 3 Marquette GA's. Call Kevin 288-3408 
FOR RENT 
LIVE IN A GOOD NEIGHBOR­
HOOD FURNISHED HOMES 
NORTH OF NO FOR NEXT 
SCHOOL YEAR IDEAL FOR 3-8 
STUDENTS 2773097 
1, 2, & 3 BDRM HOMES NEAR 
CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW & NEXT 
FALL. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272­
6551 
HOMES FOR RENT 
NEAR CAMPUS 
232-2595 
Wanted: 5 students for completely remod­eled home. Close to N.D. large rec. room, washer and dryer, security system. Rent for summer school and/or fall semester. Call NOW 277-0636 
SMALL FURNISHED ROOM FOR 
RENT. WALK TO CAMPUS. 
$150/MO. INCL. UTILITIES. 
287-2159. 
FOR SALE 
OFF CAMPUS HOUSING 
Open House 2-4 p.m. Saturday, February 18 and Sunday, February 19, 1995 Oakhill Condos Corner Edison and State Road 23 Priced at $54,900-$99,900. The perfect solution for your Notre Dame/St. Mary housing dilemma. Own your own Condo-Home. 1-3 Bedrooms, all Appliances, Fireplace, Pool and Clubhouse. For 
information call: Coldwell Banker Missy Bornheimer 259-6317/235­
3180 
Ruth Ann Smith 277-8000/235­3250 
MACINTOSH COMPUTER for sale. Complete system only $499. Call Chris at 800-289-5685. 
OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered at $85,900. First floor location. Finished basement with full lavato­ry. Two bedrooms and two baths on ground level. Lease back to owner through May, 1995. Call (616)946-0700. 
WALKTONDI 
3 bdrm. 1 bath ranch. New carpet­
ing, paint & furnace. Family room 
plus rec room with bar. $56,000. 
OPEN SAT., 2/18 FROM 2-4 PM. 
1215 N. Twyckenham 
Barb McHugh 
Coldwell Banker 
277-8000, 235-3240. 
CONDO NEAR NOTRE DAME 
Immaculate Condo with the latest 
decor and sharper than new. Call 
Harold Zeltwanger 291-9338 or 
ERA All Star Realty 255-8789. 
TICKETS 
Marquette GAs needed 
Contact Bryon -1042 
NEED 2 TOM PETTY TIX 
WILL PAY TOP$$ 
BEN X2301 
NEED 1-2 PETTY TIX 
CALL LISA 2364 
PERSONAL 
ADOPTION-A LOVING CHOICE. We're blessed with financial securi­ty and a Dalmatian! Mid-Western couple, stay-at-home mom. Allowable expenses paid. 800-440­6024 Tracy & Doug 
SPRING BREAK 
MARCO ISLAND, FL. BEACH 
FRONT 2 BEDROOM CONDO, 
CABLE, POOL, JACUZZI. FRONT 
BALCONY OVERLOOKS WHITE 
SANDY BEACH. OWNER DIS­
COUNT. 212-474-1414 
Ten Reasons to Party in 
1011 Grace 
10. You can learn the Cleveland Line Dance 
9. There's always someone to shotgun with 
8. It's got a great view 
7. They have a resident photogra­pher 
6. Special Live Guitar Performances 
5. Seinfeld lives there 
4. Cool Shamrock lights 
3. The bartender is also a chemist 
2. The vibrating chair ... 
1. They show off their legs 
Thanks for a great night! From 715 PE 
Thursday at 7:30pm there will be a 
***CONFIDENTIAL••• 
**SUPPORT GROUP** 
dealing with the issues of COMING 
OUT. This is a group for people 
who are questioning their sexuality 
or have friends or family who are 
dealing with the issue of HOMO­
SEXUALITY. For more information 
call the Q-line at287-6665 today 
between 8pm and 10pm .... and 
remember there is someone OUT 
there who cares! 
Misty Mountain 
The best things happen when you 
don't plan for them. Thanks for 
changing your mind and giving me 
a chance. I love you, sweetheart. 
Ryan 
ND/SMC-OSU Ballroom Comp Top Ten 
10. ?doof nehw 
9. There's the other car---they're all dead! 
8. Car dancing & 6-part harmony 
7. Whose pants are hanging from the curtain rod? 
6. Let's break into Burger King! 
5. The winner is (gasp) #25! 
4. Don't you just feel so over­dressed for Wendy's some­times? 
3. #88, Super Frame Man, #22, #25-need I say more? 
2. Sounds like whales mating! 
1. You sleep longer if you get it at night! 
You did great, guys! April 1st at NO will rockll 
Congratulations to the best broom­ball team ever, THE CUL DE SACS and their star puddle, Michele Potter. Next victory-Feb. 22. Stay tuned for details ... 
Quotes from LeMans Formal 
Don't drink my contacts Hey, I'm a team player Let's snuggle Menage-a-quad Megan I missed a lot at the dance, 
but I would've remembered a guy passing out ham 
Sean, margaritas and daiquiris are two different drinks What if you just want to order a 
regular slam? Hope you don't mind Rick, but I 
slept in your sweatshirt Coyote pelts at Denny's I'll have one large glass of ice 
water It's 95 in the room and -38 on the floor. Heat rises. remember? I'm sorry. I didn't fall ...he tripped 
me I may never take this suit off Where in the hell did all these 
holes come from? Moons Over My Hammy please 
Thanks guys, we had a blastl 
The girls from Rm 223 & 224 Ho-Jo's 
Desperately seeking ride to Padre for Spring Break. Will split gas and tolls in exchange. Call Bridget at x2702. 
HEY YOU! Ready to lose weight for real? I lost over 20 lbs., went from a size 9 to a 3 in under 8 weeks! No diets/drugs/exercise! All-Natural Tablets: guaranteed results! Kelly (800)209-2150 
Dearest Rory-Who cares what those guys in 3D think-We sure like it when you wear PINK! Happy YUCK Day! With Love­Woo-back & Rach 
ATIN: ACTORS/ACTRESSES Student in directing class needs you for periodic in-class and out-of­class projects this semester. If you have MWF from 1:15-2:05 free (and some additional time) and are inter­ested, call Mike at 4-3597 and leave your name and number. All help will be appreciated. Thanks. 
DESPERATELY NEEDED: 
Ride to Pittsburgh on March 3rd for weekend. Please help. 
Call Laurie at x4096 -Thank You! 
Hey MARTY P. It's OKAY Some girls like guys with no balls 
VALENTINES 
nanny­Forever's as far as I'll go. I love Ul Love, Jeannine 
My Angel, 

Allow me to introduce myseH. My name is Wile E. Coyote, Genius. 
Your Sweetie. 
happy valentine's day ADAM Jove STEVE 
You are the Love of my life JUDY! Happy Valimtine's Day! Love CLAIRE 
A Valentine's Day Poem For My Three Geek-A-Ronies: If it weren't for my roomies, I don't know what I'd do. I'd skip all my classes And sleep the night through. No grinding, no moaning, No sleep-talking too, A life without roomies would be Sad and blue. No one to make fun of, Nobody to shook, No one to give noogies to, And no live-in jock. A life without roomies would be Boring indeed, Nobody to rip on, no one to Mislead. Nobody to laugh with, with nobody I'd eat, Nobody around to be scared of my Feet. Nobody to talk with, nobody to Walk with, Nobody to nag about the guys They go off with. If it weren't for you all, I don't know What I'd do. I'd be overcome by fuss-budgets, And transfer to lUI But thank God for roomies. For tall and for small, For happy and sad ones, And for you three most of all. Happy Valentine's Day! Love, Miasma 
To the man who one day caught my eye... You're as sweet as-no, SWEETER than -"pumpkin" pie Always remember how much you are loved And that YOU'RE the one I'm thinking of Thank you for being a "light" in my life... Happy Valentine's Day, dear! 
JoJo, 
The happiest of days to ... 
... my coloring buddy ...iny dancing partner ...my B-Boys listener ...my Wonder Woman ... my Valentine 
Love, Lumpy 
Ladies and Gash of 415: It's been great so far ... From the night after Ball State, to Bridget's, board games, 4:00am talks, and lunchtime sexual healing. I look forward to the future ... Spring Break in Daytona, nights of drunken bliss, no more "I have morning swim" excuses, and a senior year that will kick ass! On this day I want to say. I love you all and feel blessed to be your friend. -Michael-
HEY MS. BEAR, I'LL ALWAYS BE WILLING TO SHARE MY WARMTH WITH YOU. 
HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAYI LOVE, MR. PORCUPINE 
hey knucklehead i'm glad you took a chance and i fell for your line ... HVD, dork -your shadow 
Happy Valentine's Day Sweetie Pie! I'm sorry we can't spend more time together today. I'm sure we'll make up for it somehow. -­And you say I never write you clas­sifiedsl I love you, baby! 
Love,your~nkey" 
Stacia, I think I love you. Please Call me. Love. Brian Klausner 
A Valentine's Day..liddle: What do you get when you combine intelligence. compassion, adven­ture. muffin baker, wine taster. raJ­quetball expert, wild rice chef. movie taper. and great proposals Oust to name a fewl) in one guy? / KEVIN IIIII 
Happy Valentine's Day KELLY 
To the chicks in 3SW: The dome is gold __, The other color is blue I love Notre Dame ~ And I love you too. Have a happy V-Dayll Love, Steenle 
Marisa, Let the Luau never end and the dance last forever. Overseas and under the stars I'll be with you always. Vamos a nuestro mundo pequeno. Everlasting is this "concept." ' 
Laurence 
Mercy Anne 
A dreamy fall day, is when the story begins. A story of how you stole my heart away. There you were standing, your face wore a frown, A frown that turned my whole world upside down. 
Won't you tell me what's on your mind, Oh Mercy Anne won't you please. Is It pain that you cannot ease? Won't you take my hand and let me set your spirit free? Oh Mercy Anne. I'm caught1n your spell, Won't you tum and smile at me? 
-Hopeless Romantic 
Sweetheart, My tummy is yours, now and forever . (My heart tool) I love you! Your Pooh Bear 
***alamadingdong, 
Have a GREAT V-day! Thanks for all the great times this yearl I hope there are many morel 
-Corncob from Bismark 
-To Anne. with Jove 
"Red-lleel my soul on fire Black-my world if she's not there Red---the color of desire Black---the color of despair" 
-M 
BUNNY 
To Ms. LaGrange, Happy Valentine's Day. Just 7 & 34 days to the 2 best days of the year! Keep smiling & remember to stop & smell the roses! But don't touch the TROJANS! II 
Love, East Coast Rubber Man 
Happy (4th) Valentine's Day, Pall I love you so much its not even funny! -E 
Stacie: Neither I nor you Have expected this light, Ever since we met That one 'grace'ful night. And because these 5 months Have been such sweet bliss, On this lovers' day, I just want a kiss. 
Love: the Floam Boy 
To my honey bunny, I love you more than anything in the world. I cari't wait to see you! Please be mine, sweettiel 
Love, Nathan 
To my honey bunny, 
I love you more than anything In the world! I can't wait to see you! Please be mine, sweetie! 
Love, Nathan 
Yoo Hool Oh Sexy Roomies Happy Valentine's Day Where are we going to put all of the flowers? 
Sta.,Y Eyes. Have a RAD Valentine's Daylll Love. Wayne Gretzky 
To a very special Valerie from an everyday average Cesar­1hope you have a great day. 
Chris-to my forever Valentine. I love you always. Love, Loveybumps 
B.V.­Roses are Red, Viloets are Blue, Although you can't read this, You know I love you! Happy Valentine's Day, LoveCB 
Honey, honey, honey Oh, honey, honey You are my honey Honey, honey, honey It's the Honey Song! Love Hooey. 

~----~-~-~ ---~----~---~-------~------~--­
Tuesday, February 14, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
• PROFESSIONAL TENNIS •NHl 
Recovering Graf returns to tour Blackhawks fall to 
event after losing top ranking 
Leafs; Flyers soar 
By SALVATORE ZANCA beat Graf at the U.S. Open and "But the doctors can't tell me 
Associated Press was recognized as the top play­100 percent it is going to be Associated Press previous two starts and had a er of 1994, became No. 1 in the fine. This is not an injury that is goals-against average of 1.91 PAHIS Feb. 6 rankings, although los­going to heal. I am working TORONTO entering this game, had his Steffi Graf will be stepping ing the Australian Open final to very hard on it so I can deal Mats Sundin scored his eighth perfect run stopped by Hidleyinto the unknown when she Pierce. with it and play with it and re­and ninth goals of the season after only 96 seconds. Belfour plays her first match at the Graf accepts the loss of the duce my problems, to reduce as the Toronto Maple Leafs stopped a long shot by Jamie
Paris Women's Open this week. beat the Chicago Blackhawks
top spot. the pain. Macoun and Hidley was on his 
Sh11 hasn't played in a tour­"I can't stay No. 1 when I am "I have been having success 4-2 Monday night. doorstep to backhand the re­nament in three months and not playing," she said. "Right so far. Sometimes I have more Dave Ellett and Mike Ridley bound between Belfour's legs. doesn't know how her back will now I am trying to get fit and problems, sometimes I have scored Toronto's other goals Ysebaert got credit for thehold up as she seeks to regain be able to play tournaments. less problems. It is not some­and Paul Ysebaert and Dirk goal that tied it 1-1 at 10:02. the No. 1 ranking she lost last You have to be fit the whole thing that is just gone." Graham seored for Chicago, 
Ysebaert passed the puck from month. year to be able to achieve After missing the Australian which had won five in a row. a corner of Toronto's zone to­
"I've been out of competitive something." Open, Graf is now without a It was the final game of an wards the crease and Potvin tennis for a while," Graf said Pierce is seeded No. 2 in the Grand Slam title for 12 months. eight-game road trip for the stuck out his stick to interceptMonday. "I haven't had any Paris tournament, while It doesn't bother her. Blackhawks, who went 6-2 and it. The puck struck the blade of tournaments since November Sanchez Vicario is taking the "I don't wake up every morn­outscored opponents 37-15 in Potvin's stick and, taking a 90­and it will be interesting to see week off. Graf could regain the ing and think about which tour­the process. One more win and degree carom, went between what I can do." top spot if she wins the tour­nament I've won last year," they would have been able to Potvin's legs. 
Graf has played only two nament and beats Pierce or No. Graf said. "I would have to look boast of the longest road win­Sundin scored 65 seconds into matches since reaching the fi­3 seed Jana Novotna along the back at the past year to realize ning streak in the franchise's the second period. He strippednal at the U.S. Open in way to gain enough bonus I don't have one. I am trying last 30 years. Their overall the puck off Joe Murphy justSeptember, both at the Virginia points. right now just to play a couple record, 8-4-0, is best in the inside Chicago's blue line, took Slims Championships in New Graf is not thinking of that Grand Slams tournaments. NHL's Western Conference. one stride to the top of the left­York in November, losing to now. That's all I worry about now." The Leafs (6-5-3) redeemed wing circle and lifted a hard Mary Pierce in the second "I been trying to get into Overall, her 86 pro tourna­themselves for Saturday's 5-2 shot past Belfour and off the round. shape," she said. "It has been ment wins is fourth on the all­loss to the Los Angeles Kings. inside of the far post. 
Since then, persistent back very difficult and very frustrat­time list, just behind Evonne The Blackhawks gave the Sundin made it 3-1 by finish­pains and subsequent calf in­ing. But I have played hard for Goolagong Cawley's 88. Maple Leafs all they could han­ing off a 2-on-1 break with juries forced her to miss the 
dle. Trailing 3-1 when the third the last l 0 days and physically I 
Randy Wood by scooping

Australian Open in January and period began, they got a re­feel good." 
Wood's pass behind Belfour at 

the Tokyo tournament this 
bound goal by Graham at 5:20
Graf has divided her time 
11:42 of the second. 

month. 
to set up a close finish, and ller inactivity has cost her the 
between her homes in Florida 
Have 
only some exceptional saves by
and Germany and practiced 
Flyers 5, Capitals 3 No. 1 ranking for the first time 

Maple Leafs goalie Felix Potvin June 1993, when Graf took 
well. However, in her eager­
stopped the comeback bid.
ness to protect the back, she 
something 
Mikael Renberg, Chris 

over from Monica Seles. Seles Chicago outshot Toronto 32-28,pulled a calf muscle that set 
Therien and Patrik Juhlin 

still has not returned to action including 11-7 in the third pe­back her return. 
scored goals in less than four

to say?
since being stabbed during a riod.
She says a back operation is minutes of the first period as match at Hamburg, Germany, 
Ellett added an insurance
out of the question for now. 
the Philadelphia Flyers beat the in April 1993. 

goal with three minutes
Use

"An operation will take me Washington Capitals 5-3 Arantxa Sanehez Vieario, who remaining. His long wrist shotout 6-8 months," Graf said. 

Monday night. 
changed direction off the shaft 
The Flyers, who had been struggling, won their second straight and snapped a three­game home winless streak against Washington. Entering the game, only five teams in the NHL had scored fewer goals than Philadelphia (25). 
Rod Brind'Amour gave Philadelphia a 1-0 lead at 6:46 on a power play. Eric Desjardins flipped a dump pass in at the blue line, hustled after his own heave, and sent the puck across the middle to Brind'Amour, who whacked it by Rick Tabaracci. The power­play goal ended an 0-for-14 streak for the Flyers. 
Renberg notched his second goal of the season at 14:06. Erie Lindros stripped a Capital in center ice and fed the puck over to Renberg at the blue line. Renberg, who had 38 goals last season, whistled a wrist shot just inside the right post. 
Just 2:34 later, Therien col­lected his first NHL goal, also on a power play. He took a cross-ice pass from Jim Montgomery at the point and wristed a shot that ticked off Washington defenseman Sylvain Cote in the slot and the cross-bar behind Tabaracci before settling in the net. 
Juhlin made it 4-0 1:14 later off a rebound in front, which signalled the end for Tabaracci. Olaf Kolzig became the new Washington netminder. 
Craig MacTavish scored his first goal in a Philadelphia uni­form at 5:17 of the second for a 5-0 Philadelphia lead, the first time since April 2, 1994, that the Flyers managed five goals. MacTavish corralled a rebound of Desjardins' point drive. Desjardins had three assists. 

~ ---­
~­
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, February 14, 1995 
•NBA 
Nelson resigns from Warriors, is Mad Max missing 
replaced by Hall-of-FaDler Lanier ~o~~~~LA.LUTZ -p~::~·ell went into the stands 
By BOB EGELKO 
Associated Press 
OAKLAND, Calif. 
Don Nelson, sick and demor­alized this season, resigned Monday as coach and general 
manager of the Golden 
S  t  a t  e  
Warr iors.  
T  h  e  

Warriors said Bob Lanier, the assistant 

coach  and  Don Nelson  
Hall of Fame  
center,  will  immediately  

replace Nelson. Nelson's job as general manager was not im­mediately fllled. 
Nelson's son, Donn Nelson, currently an assistant coach for the Warriors, will remain with the team to assist with preparations for the 1995 draft. 
Golden State was expected to challenge for the NBA title this season after recording 50 wins last year. 
But injuries and dissension following the loss of forward Chris Webber, last year's rook­ie of the year, turned the year into a disaster. The Warriors were 14-31 at the All-Star break. 
The announcement followed a weekend of meetings between Nelson and team owner Chris Cohan in Phoenix, where the All-Star Game was played. 
Published reports had Nelson accepting a $1 million buyout. with Lanier taking over. 
Nelson, the Warriors' GM for 7 1/2 years and coach for 6 1/2, has taken the team to the play­offs four times, but never reached the conference finals. 
Nelson, whose head coaching career began in the 1976-1977 season with the Milwaukee Bucks, has 817 regular-season victories and 604 losses. His postseason record is 51-61. 
The usually cautious Nelson was talking about a possible ti­tle in preseason, with injured guard Tim Hardaway returning to join Webber and All-Star guard Latrell Sprewell. Hopes rose further when the Warriors obtained their first established center in the Nelson years, Rony Seikaly, in a preseason trade with Miami for forward Billy Owens. 
But Webber, who was squeezed under the team's salary cap last season by a con­tract making him a restricted free agent after one year, never played another game with the Warriors. 
The former Michigan star had a publicized blowup with Nelson in Charlotte last season and was quoted in an off-sea­son interview as saying it was the worst year of his life. The self-assured Webber had no patience with Nelson's high­pressure, demanding style, and eventually forced a Nov. 17 trade to Washington. 
New owner Cohan agreed to the trade, siding with his coach. In exchange, the Warriors got Tom Gugliotta, a solid forward with none of Webber's super­star potential. 
The team went into a tailspin 
almost immediately, losing 30 
of its last 37 after a 7-1 start. 

THE NAIL STUDIO 
sp;~{diE .~ Set of Nails ~/ · 
lry]od, Only 
Reg. $55 , Just $45! 
with Student lD expires: 3/31/95 Just Minutes from Campus •272,0312• 
S.R. 23 at Ironwood • 54533 Terrace Lane 
great scores... 

·---·I 
' I I 
I I 
Kaplan helps you focus your
great skills ... 
GRE studies and build your confidence so you can get a
Kaplan students get the most 
higher score. 
complete test preparation materials available including computer-analyzed practice tests, home-study materials, books, software, and a training library. 
And at Kaplan, we've got experienced 
teachers who really care. 
1-800-KAP-TEST 
get a higher score 
KAPLAN 
· Four-time All-Star Chris Mullin has missed virtually the whole season with injuries and has been joined on the sidelines by Seikaly and Ricky Pierce, a pre­season acquisition who was supposed to shore up the Warriors' bench. Hardaway hasn't fully recov­ered from last year's ankle in­jury, and Sprewell has had an erratic season, marked by in­juries and resentment of the trades of close friends Owens and Webber. He wore both players' num­hers on his sneakers for a time, missed two practices and was suspended for a game. Rookie Cliff Rozier also served a one-game suspension for missing practice. 
Nelson was demoralized by the Webber trade and its af­termath, and soon encountered physical problems. He missed seven games in December be­cause of viral pneumonia, re­turned in January but missed two more games with the flu this month. 
Lanier, voted into the NBA Hall of Fame in 1992, played 9 1/2 seasons with Detroit and 4 1/2 with the Nelson-coached Milwaukee Bucks before retir­ing in 1984. 
Since then, he has worked as a broadcaster. as chairman of the NBA's Stay-in-School pro­gram and as president of a pro­motional merchandise compa­ny. His only full-time coaching experience has been as a Warriors assistant this season, concentrating on the team's big men. 
at Portland on Feb. 6 and at-HOUSTON tacked Steve George of Atlanta, 

Vernon Maxwell, suspended claiming the fan had shouted for rushing into the stands to racial and sexual insults about punch a heckler, failed to show his family, especially his for practice Monday night with daughter, Amber. who died in the Houston Rockets. 1993. 
"It was just a lack of commu-George has denied making nication with Vernon," coach any derogatory remarks about Rudy Tomjanovich said after Maxwell and has demanded the two-hour workout. "We'll Maxwell retract his accusa­get it straightened out. He tions. thought because he was sus-On Monday at The Summit, pended he wasn't supposed to Maxwell continued to receive be around the team." support from his teammates. 
Maxwell, a starting guard, "Every person has his pres-has eight games left in his 10-sure point," Robert Horry said. game suspension. He has filed "One thing will make a person an appeal of the suspension as cross the line and something well as his $20,000 fine to NBA else will get to another per-commissioner David Stern, son." claiming the league didn't fully Otis Thorpe said he wasn't investigate the incident. surprised at Maxwell's absence 
Tomjanovich said it is not from the workout. clear if Maxwell will start when "I don't know the rules," he returns to the team. Thorpe said. "Sometimes 
"We'll have to see, you're not supposed to be with Tomjanovich said. "If you stay the team when you're sus­off all that time, it just de-pended. Sometimes you are." 
r 
, 
,.
-' 

~  -er.,  /7 - ~  ....,~,  
,  ,.  .....  
CELEBRATED  EVENTS  

Comprehensive Wedding Coordinating and Party Planning 
CYNTHIA BASKER 

302 East Donaldson Avenue Mishawaka, Indiana 46545 
219 258-5482 


"Mandate for the New Congress" 
Wednesday, February 22 
8p.m 
Stepan Center 
Tickets are now on sale at the LaFortune Box Office. 
Students $3 General Public $5 
Sponsored by the Office of Student Activities, SUB and Student Government 
I 
I 
Tuesday, February 14, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
•NBA 
Uncertainty underlies West; Magic rule the East 
By WENDY E. LANE 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX 
Phoenix Suns coach Paul Westphal was only joking when he tried to coax Houston's llakeem Olajuwon into doing something dangerous during the NBA All-Star Game. 
After all, with Olajuwon out of the way, the path to the NBA Finals would be a lot less daunting for the Suns, who have the league's best record going into the second half of the season. 
Olajuwon resisted Westphal's attempts to drag him toward an electric catapult that was send­ing the Suns' Gorilla mascot hurtling through the air during a timeout in Sunday's All-Star Game. Charles Barkley wanted to try the contraption, but his fast-thinking coach went after last season's league MVP and stopped him. 
"The plan was to get Hakeem out there," Westphal said, laughing. "We were trying to reel him in there and get him injured, but he is too smart for that." 
Now that the All-Star frolick­ing is over, the serious part of the season resumes. 
In fact, no sooner was the game over -a 139-112 romp by the Western Conference ­than players' thoughts turned toward the business of jockey­ing for playoff positions. 
The Hockets, the defending champions, have some serious catching up to do. They are third in the Midwest Division with only the sixth-best record in the conference. 
"The West is so competitive," Olajuwon said. "You can't say it's just those two teams (Houston and Phoenix). We have Seattle, San Antonio, Utah, Phoenix." 
Houston's task is tough, and it starts with an Eastern road trip that includes stops at Central Division leader Charlotte and New York. 
The best-shooting team in the league and the surprise Midwest leader, the Utah Jazz, figure to keep rolling now that the distraction of John Stockton's NBA assists record is safely out of the way. 
"I think it was good for us to take a break and get away from each other for a while, because we had a lot of things going on before the break, with Stockton's assist record and the road streak (15 straight wins)," Karl Malone said. 
Then there are the Spurs, who have won 22 of 28 after corral­ing unruly Dennis Rodman. With Rodman's league-high average of 16.3 rebounds per game, David Robinson hasn't had to attack the boards as much and is putting up MVP­type numbers for the second straight season. 
After their first-round playoff flameout last season, the Seattle SuperSonics have buck­led down and piled up wins, compiling a 33-12 record, No.2 in the conference. 
"I think we are in good shape, as gooa as anybody else," Sonics forward Detlef Schrempf said. "We have matured. We have a young, emotional team, but overall we have matured a lot, and we are still maturing." 
Despite losing leading scorer Cedric Ceballos for at least six weeks with a thumb injury, the Los Angeles Lakers appear· vir­tually certain to make the play­offs after missing out last year. Portland and Sacramento should get the remaining two spots, because Denver has lost 10 of 12 since Dan Issei quit as coach. 
Meanwhile, the Eastern Conference isn't nearly as tight. With a 3 7-10 record, Orlando has taken the suspense out of the chase for top seeding in the playoffs. 
But Shaquille O'Neal, who's having an MVP season, was eager for the Magic to start playing again. 
"Now it's time to get back to my real job," said O'Neal, who had 22 points in Sunday's game. 
And now that O'Neal has had a strong All-Star showing for the first time in three appear­ances, is it time for his young Magic team to win its first play­off game? 
"If we want to be best in the East, we have to go through New York," said O'Neal, al­though Orlando leads the Knicks by 6 1/2 games in the Atlantic Division. "They are a great team. I know they've had some injury problems, but they are still a great team. When we play the Knicks, we have to do everything right." 
But the Knicks, who have shaken off the absence of Charles Oakley and climbed from .500 to 30-16, aren't the only team to be reckoned with in the conference. 
Upset 
continued from page 16 
from knee surgery, in particu­lar, is more than happy to face this level of play. 
"It was tough, but I need 
Charlotte's Larry Johnson and Alonzo Mourning are showing how formidable they can be when healthy. 
Mourning is averaging 20.2 points and 10.8 rebounds and Johnson is averaging 18.9 points per game. 
these type of matches to improve on." The same holds true for her teammates. 
"We're in a stretch of a lot of tough matches right now," Louderback remarked. "It will only help in the future." 


r---------------------------------------, 
HOW TO KEEP PEOPLE'S  
HANDS OFF YOUR MONEY.  
i  Carry only enough cash to last the day.  
Anyone who tries to borrow your last five spot  
isn't a friend, anyway.  
i  Label your spare-change jar "beetle farm!'  
fhen, put your beetle farm in a jar labeled  
"spare change."  
i  Mark up every space on checks.  
Don't leave room for someone to fill in their  
..  name and extra zeros .  
i  Keep your wallet in your front pocket.  
It discourages pickpockets. So does wearing  
really tight pants.  
i  Put your picture on your credit card.  
A Citibank Photocard is tough for anyone· else  
to use, unless they look just like you.  


page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, February 14, 1995 

Fencers victorious at Duke 
By JOE VILLINSKI 
Sports Writer 
For the defending NCAA na­tional champion fencers, last weekend at Duke provided a glimpse of what it is going to take to reach that coveted plateau again. 
Both the men and women enjoyed an undefeated week­end as the Irish picked up the momentum they need heading into the Midwest Fencing Team Championships in two weeks. 
"I wasn't sure what Notre Dame team was going to show up," men's head coach Mike DeCicco said. "But it turned out it was the one that wants to win the national champi­onship." 
The men rebounded from two earlier losses in the season to defeat North Carolina 17-10, William & Mary 21-6, Stanford 19-8, and Duke 23-4. 
In a weekend that was full of highlights for the Irish, the win over Stanford topped the list. 
"We knew that epee and sabre were not going to have a problem with Stanford," sopho­more foilist Jeremy Siek said. "However, their foil team is one of the best in the country and we knew they were going to be tough." 
As the All-American pre­dicted, the epee team won 6-3, while sabre was victorious 8-1. 
Foil, however, took center stage as the Irish rallied to de­
;:··SPORTS 
feat the Cardinal's powerful one-two punch of Sean McLain and Geoff Donnaker. In the match, Siek and captain Stan Brunner both defeated Donnaker to preserve the 5-4 victory. Siek got the deciding win after the match was tied at 4-4. 
"It was important for us to beat Stanford," DeCicco added. "Brunner overcame the flu and keyed us by beating Donnaker 5-4. He fenced magnificently this weekend." 
"If we fence the way we did against Stanford, it will be no contest against anyone," Siek said. 
In sabre, captain Chris Hajnik went 9-2, while sophomore Bill Lester was 11-0. Two fresh­man also enjoyed an unde­feated weekend in epee as Brian Stone and Carl Jackson were 11-0 and 9-0 respectively for the now 16-2 men. 
"This was a huge week for us," DeCicco said. "In a very real sense our backs were against the wall. Our men re­sponded across the board. I can't stress enough how pleased I was with the leader­ship of our captains Brunner, Hajnik, and Rakesh Patel." 
While the men returned to 
form, the women just kept on 
rolling along. Their undefeated 
match win streak now stands at 
50 after picking up four more 
wins at Duke. The women, 
who finish at 21-0, also record­
. 

ed their second straight unbeaten regular season. 
The women beat North Carolina 20-12, James Madison 29-3, Stanford 25-7, and Duke 29-3. Junior foilist Maria Panyi posted a 15-0 mark over the weekend to finish the season at 74-2, shattering the previous record of 61 wins in a single­season set by Cindy Weeks in 1986. 
Epee captain Claudette de Bruin also was undefeated as she went 16-0 at Duke to finish the season with a record of 53­
3. "We're thrilled with the leadership and results we've gotten from both of the cap­tains, Panyi and de Bruin," women's head coach Yves Auriol said. 
Freshman Anne Hoos added 14 wins for the epee squad. Junior Mindi Kalogera was 13­2, while freshman Amee Appel finished with an 11-3 record for the foil squad. 
"We are pleased with the strong performances of Kalogera and Hoos," Auriol added. "I can't say enough about this women's team. They seem to feed off each other and push each other towards new heights. Every week has been an improvement." 

The fencing teams take a week off before playing host to 
Wins
the Midwestern Championships at the JACC. 
continued from page 16 
"We need the rest," DeCicco said. ing team." The Irish will travel to Kentucky on Thursday, and 
ride in the bus all night to get back to campus for classes on Friday. On Saturday, Notre Dame hosts fifth rated Duke at 1 p.m. 
"It will be a great match for people to watch on J.P.W.," Bayliss concluded. 


EN1REPRENEUR CLUB 
"Don't wait for an opportunity... Create one!" 
Have an idea for a new business? How about an idea for improving an old one? 
Ifso, then you'd be perfect for the Business Plan Contest. Prizes of$2000, $1000, and $500for the top three plans. 
.£all 634-2084 to register by February I 5th. 
Subject to contest rules available to all contestants. 
....~:. 
NOVICE AND CREW ~ There will portant meeting f9t Break on· Tuesday at in 129 DeBartolo. 
checkbooks:!! 10, TT•~'H~':;~!~'~~i·2
BENGAL 11 occurs daily at 4: JACC. Anyone should contact Jv•t..•.,..,{~" 287-8041. 
CLIMBING WALL . . -The climbing W<lll is pow 
. open· for use. The hours will be Sundays 2:00-5:00 il.P.Q Tuesdays and Thursdays from 7:00-10:00. The climbing wall is located in the llockp.e Memorial and anyone interest­ed in using it mustattend an. orientation session." For ~o~~ · info eall RecSports at1~6:l.OO; . 
CLIMBING WALL 
TION SESSION­tioll session will Sunday, Feb. 19 at at .the Rockne Me~n·1·~)rii~K interested, caiiu•"""''""""t" 6100 to sign up. limited. 
VARSI1Y LACROSSE-A sta­tistician is. needed for Mep.'s 
Hours

THE 
M-F 10-8 
Sat 10-6 
Sun 12-4 

STYLE 
CO. INC. 
"Alternative Clothing for Today's Woman" 
THE STYLE CO., INC. Grand Opening, Feb 27, 1995! 
A unique shopping experience without the Grape Rd. hassle. 
• 
Over 40 styles of Hats 

• 
Alterations and layaway available 

• 
Open evenings and Sundays 


1912 S. 11th, Niles 687-9123 
"In the newly remodeled Belle Plaza" 
Two teams associated with the num~er 1. 
SUBWAY's A.1. Steak &Cheese 
BACK BY POPULAR DEMAND!
f) For alimited time only 
Tuesday, February 14, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM MIKE PETERS CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 

BILL WATTERSON 


SCOTT ADAMS 

0
.. 
~ 
.; 
.: 
• 
,; u 
;; 
;. 
Ul 
, ~ 

25 Shopping place  42 What's more  56 Western  
21 1939 James  43 Constitution  57 Cast out  
Stewart title role  creators  59 Little hopper  
28 Que follower, in  47 Actor Matheson  &1 North Carolina  
song  49 Narrows  county  
31-bene  50 Watchful one  &5 Drain cleaner  
32 Mr. Quayle  s2Welsh dog  && Pasture  
34 Drives away  55 Accelerator's  &7 General Mills  
35A number 1  counterpart  cereal  
37 Christmas tree  
topper 40 Atty.'s degree 41 Parisian summers  Get answers to any three clues by touch·tone phone: 1·900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute).  



..

It was several weeks before the Millsville Department of Public Works realized that it had mistakenly purchased a Zamboni rather than a street cleaner. 
• OF INTEREST Women's Health Fair, LeMans Lobby. Saint Mary's College, Wed., Feb. 5 from 3 to 5 p.m. All SMC, ND, HC students. faculty, and staff invited. Residence hall contracts for 1995-96 academic year have been sent to the residence halls. In order to be eligible for housing in the fall, students must return the contract to the Office of Student Residence prior to 5 p.m.• Feb. 15, 1995. Summer residence hall staff applications are now available in the Office of Student Residences, 311 Main Bldg., from 8 a.m. until 5 p.m., Monday through Friday. Applications received prior to Feb. 28 will receive prior­ity.  
•MENU Notre Dame North South Beef and Cheddar Pizza Roast Turkey Breast Fiesta Hot Beef Fajitas Whipped Potatoes Blueberry Pie Cherries Jubilee Saint Mary's Soup Bar Chicken Dumplings Wild Rice  


American+ 
Red Cross

ALL. 
~ 

AMERICAN RED CROSS C4MP!t.IGN NEWSPAPER AO NO. AAC·I6·1071-2 COL 
DILBERT 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 30 Peeved 33When
1 Vacuum tube Operationfiller Overlord took &Wanders place11 Underwear 34 Bygone coif . initials 36 Mmes., across14 March the Pyrenees compos.er 
38 Dined15 Key above G 1& Majors or Myles 
39 Jodie Foster's directorial11 Happenchance debut, 199119 Once-while 43 Douglas or20 Barbero! 
alpine, e.g. 
baseball 44 Choir members 21 Sprite 45 Pub quaffs 
22 Made 4& Seventh day 
24 City near Utah activity
Lake 26 "Desire Under 
48lmproves the-" 51 Monkeyshine 29 Head of a 53 Carriage, in the familia country 

:a 
0 0 
.... 
0 
"' 
Ill 
"':a 
"'0
..
...
... 
0 0 
Ul 
·;; E 
,;, 
~ 
"J 
54 Cousin of the English horn 58 Bushy-tailed animal 60 Princess' sleep 
disturber 82 Dishcloth 63 Greek vowel 
64 Child's means of propulsion 
&a Soak flax &9 More cheerful 10 Takes to the 
trails 71 Opposite NNW 12 Brainstorms 73Apply 
DOWN 
1 Houston player 20arsman 3 Tour leader 4W.W.II 
intelligence org. 5 N.B.A.'s 
Archibald 6 Club fund-raiser 1 Light switch 
position a Miss. neighbor 9 Chess finale 
10 Robert Fulton's power 
11 Notoriously risky social event 
12 Respects 13 Sharpshooter 18 Fashion's 
Cassini 23 "Far out" 

Intratnural Dendlii1(i's ·. 
...... '•,• ... :': '• ·: . ~:~>·''. ' ,.. 

february 23 IHLACROSSE March 2 

IH WOMEN'S SOCCER IH 12" SOFTBALL -MEN IH 12" SOFTBALL-WOMEN GRAD-FAC-STAFF SOFTBALL CAMPUS SOCCER CO-REC INDOOR SOCCER 
Contact the RecSports Office · for details. 

REMEMBER -•. 
RecSport Champions are invited to the
LACROSSE & "Dinner of Champions". SOCCER 
later this spring
OFFICIALS 


631-6100 
I 
SPORTS
I 
I 
~ 
l 
~ ~ 
t 
.. 
page 16 Tuesday, February 14, 1995 

Irish topple two tough opponents 
Defeat Buckeyes 6-1 and North Carolina 4-3 
ByB.j. HOOD 
Sports Writer 
A pair of weekend tennis vic­tories has men's tennis coach Bob Bayliss bubbling. ''I'm obviously happy, but I'm par­ticularly ecstatic about the North Carolina match. We felt we could beat Ohio State, but it was about a fifty/fifty chance of beating North Carolina considering we are ranked fifteenth, and they are (sixteenth), Bayliss comment­ed. 
Notre Dame defeated Ohio State 6-1 on Saturday, and topped North Carolina 4-3 on Sunday. 
One individual who made Coach Bayliss particularly happy against North Carolina was Brian Harris. Harris had never played in a varsity match until this weekend, but the junior answered the call Saturday and Sunday. 

Saturday against Ohio State Ron Mencias was sick, and Harris stepped in and defeated Tony Thomas 4-6, 7-5, 7-6 (7­2). Sunday against North Carolina, John Jay O'Brien had a sore wrist and Steve Flanigan was hit in the eye in doubles, setting the stage for Harris again. 
"With almost no warning, Ryan was thrust into a difficult situation," Bayliss said. I am very happy for a guy who has worked very hard for two and a half years. It was nothing short of exceptional." 
Bayliss also complimented Mike Sprouse for his consis­tency. Sprouse defeated North Carolina's Brint Morrow 6-3, 6-3. Morrow had defeated Sprouse last year, but Sprouse controlled this year's match. 
After a loss to Ohio State's Marc Wurtzman, Jason Pun bounced back to defeat David Britt of North Carolina 6-2, 6­3. Pun and Sprouse defeated the number three ranked dou­bles team in the country. The doubles point was not expect­ed, but was crucial in the 4-3 victory. 
On Saturday, Ryan Simme defeated Ohio State's Doug Bloom at number one singles. "Doug Bloom is quick and Ryan was patient. We have a very solid top two," Bayliss complimented. 
With his victory over Scott Wiles on Saturday, Steve Flanigan remains undefeated. Jakub Pietrowski also had a victory on Saturday, a.5-7, 6-4, 6-2 win over Evan Klee. 
Coach Bayliss felt the wins were especially important be­cause starting with North Carolina, Notre Dame will play six ranked teams in a row. Bayliss commented on the schedule. 
"We're going to take some lumps. Each match is an op­portunity to beat an outstand­
see WINS I page14 

Finish weekend with an upset and two losses 

Conquer Kansas, but can't handle Duke and W&M 
By TIM SHERMAN 
Assistant Sports Editor 

The results of this weekend may not mean all that much for the Notre Dame women's ten­
nis team in the long run, but the expe­rience gained sure will. 
The 15th ranked Irish dropped two of their three 


matches in Williamsburg, VA, but did man­age to upset the lOth ranked Jayhawks of Kansas. 
"We really played well against Kansas," Irish coach Jay Loud­erback noted. "Overall, this weekend, we improved in every match we played in." 
Not only did the Irish im­prove, they proved they could compete with the nation's top teams. 
Duke, who defeated the Notre Dame by a deceiving 7-2 score on Friday, entered the weekend as the country's 6th ranked squad. In addition, the host Tribe of William and Mary, 5-4 winners, is considered to be among the top 30. 
"Even though we didn't win, we came away with a lot of confidence," sophomore Erin Gowen noted. "We knew com­ing in that all three matches would be tough, but we fought really hard. You can't get too down about losing." 
The Irish proved this was more than just talk on Saturday as they rebounded from the Duke disaster with agritty win over Kansas. 
Entering the doubles matches, the two clubs were knotted at three. At this point, the Irish double teams stepped it up and proved the final margin of 6-3. "We played our best doubles of the year against Kansas," Louderback said. "I really was pleased with our doubles play." 
The key was the second dou­bles match between Notre Dame's Kelley Olson and Laura Schwab and Kansas's Jenny Atkerson and Christie Sim. 
Olson and Schwab dropped the first set 3-6, but rallied to take the next two, 6-2, 6-4. 
"Kelley Olson really stepped it up a notch," Louderback said. ''She had been playing third doubles, but she stepped right into seconds and played well." 
Partner Schwab also turned in a solid performance for Louderback. In addition to winning both matches against the Jayhawks, the senior cap­tain provided the Irish with one of the two wins against Duke, a three-setter. 
"Laura played really well for us," Louderback said. "Even in her loss to William and Mary, she played well. "Their third singles player is really playing well." 
It was not the singles play though that hurt the Irish against the Tribe on Sunday, it was disappointing doubles play. After sweeping Kansas, Notre Dame had to be confident heading in with a 3-2 edge af­ter the singles play. That con­fidence would be short-lived, as W+M took all three. 
"We lost some tough match­es," Louderback explained. "We went in with a chance to win but it just didn't happen. Still, we played well enough to win." 
Even though the wins didn't come, the kind of experience gained in such a run of games is invaluable, especially for the younger members such as Molly Gavin, Olson, and Gowen. 
Gowen, who is coming back 
see UPSET I page 13 


ofnote...
DON NELSON RESIGNS 
The ex-Head Coach of the Golden State 
Notre Dame's Fencing teams went 
Warriors leaves the team due to sickness. 
undefeated last weekend. 

SEE PAGE 12 





