
Thursday, January 19, 1995 • Vol. XXVI No. 68· TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT ' 
Report: Kinder, Farmer charged with battery 
description of the events of October 16. came to the hearing well prepared and
Disciplinary hearing 
According to DuLac, student policy intent of poking holes in the alleged vic­and resident life guidebook, Kinder and tim's story. If the panel exonerates

enters second day 
Farmer could face disciplinary proba­Kinder and Farmer, then they will con­tion, suspension, or expulsion from the tinue their careers, both academic and

due to testimony 
University. athletic, without any mark on their DuLac also states that the principals records.
By DAVE TYLER are not allowed to bring legal counsel to If they are disciplined, DuLac gives the News Editor the hearing. The Tribune reports that players the option to appeal to President
Kinder Farmer 
the players are being represented by Malloy's office or the office of residence 
The South Bend Tribune reported 
federal regulations governing student two female law students, termed "peer life within three days after being notified Wednesday that Notre Dame football student counsel" by DuLac. of the decision of the panel presidingprivacy.
players Randy Kinder and Robert 
University policy stipulates that the over the hearing. 
The disciplinary hearing entered itsFarmer have been charged with battery hearing remain closed to all except the The Tribune report says the panelsecond day Wednesday at an undis­by the Office of Student Affairs, and are principals, their peer student counsel, isn't likely to hand down a decision untilclosed campus site. According to thecurrently involved in a disciplinary hear­witnesses and other appropriate resi­several days after the completion of the Tribune. the first day of the hearinging to address that charge. 
dence life staff. hearing. No estimate was given as toTuesday lasted more than eight hours.
A female student has alleged that 
Neither the Office of Student Affairs or how long the hearing might last. 
The report went on to say that most dis­Kinder and Farmer were involved in an Notre Dame security are required to Kinder and Farmer are both sopho­ciplinary hearings take less than halfincident at Grace Hall in the early hours report the incident to the St. Joseph's mores and were heavily recruited bythat time.
of October 16. shortly after Notre 
County Prosecutor's office without the Notre Dame's football program. Kinder
The proceedings reportedly were
Dame's loss to Brigham Young. 
full cooperation of the person alleging was Michigan's high school player of the extended by the lengthy testimony ofUniversity officials are prohibited from the incident. 
numerous witnesses and a detailed
commenting on the matter because of 

• NEWS ANALYSIS 

Little hope for success of planned cease-fire 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST Assistant News Editor 
The proposed cease-lire that was scheduled to take effect last night in the war-torn Hussian region of Chechnya has little hope of succeeding, said Igor Grazin, a faculty fellow at Notre Dame's Kellogg Institute for International Studies. 
Grazin, a member of the for­mer. Soviet Union's first demo­eratically elected Congress of People's Deputies from 1989­91, said that any cease-lire will only be temporary. 
"A cease-lire is not going to solve anything," he said. "It is tlXtremely positive whenever a peaceful solution has a chance of being introduced, but in this case it is not a step toward per­manent peace." 
The three-year quest by Chcchens to gain independence attracted the international spot­light in late December following a failed Russian invasion of the eapital city of Grozny. 
But according to Grazin, Rus­sian President Boris Yeltsin has manipulated the media cover­age in an attempt to preserve the last remnants of his power. The January 6 tongue-lashing 

ens reclaim territory 
By BARRY RENFREW Associated Press 
GROZNY, Russia 
Chechen fighters recaptured Orozny's train station and were fighting for the central market Wednesday in apush that was close to wiping out all gains made by the Russian army in the last two weeks. 
Chances of a cease-fire, scheduled for Wedne~day night. appeared slim despite earlier Russian pea,ce over­tures. In Moscow, President Boris Yeltsin. ruled out talks with Chechen leader Dzhokhar Dudayev. In Grozny, the Chechen capital, defenders said they would never lay down their arms. 
Russian artillery and rockets 
see CHECHENS/ page 4 

The Tribune reports that the players see REPORT/ page 4 

Quake death toll mounting 
By P.H. FERGUSON Associated Press 
Earthquake devastates 
KOBE, Japan Hundreds of thousands of 


Kobe, surrounding area 
people jammed the main road out of Kobe today. some limp­ing and in bandages as they picked past collapsed buildings Kobe and piles of rubble that were Port, which handles 12 percenthomes and stores before a cata­of Japan's exports, closed strophic earthquake struck. except for emergency usa. The death toll neared 2,700. Ferry tenninals also closed. 
Thousands who stayed be­hind huddled around campfires and caught water from broken pipes, too terrified to go into their homes. 
Many phone lines in the west­ern port city were still down, and friends and family strug­gled to find each other. People 
Unes tor the 

left notes tacked to what was 
high-speed trains 

left of their homes, telling each 
damaged at 36 

other where they had taken 
places over a 

shelter. 
length of about 56 
The earthquake early Tues­
miles. At least
Kanullnt'l. Airport

day triggered hundreds of fires, 
three months will 

and many of them burned The newer of two area 
be needed for 

through the day and night. By airports sustained no 
repairs to track 

today, the wind-whipped fires major damage. 
and bridges.

had burned out. 
White smoke rose from the 25 miles rubble and blackened debris, which extended for miles 
25km

through the center of the city. 
Throughout Kobe, leaking gas hissed from ruptured pipes, raising the threat of explosions. 
The devastation, hundreds of 

"Third-. fourth-, and fifth rate aftershocks and lack of basic 
soldiers have been sent to services sent hundreds of thou­
that Yeltsin gave defense minis­
Chechnya," he said. "The 2500 sands of people fleeing, many to
ter Pavel Grachev for his han­
casualties suffered by the Rus­the shelter of family and
dling of the conflict was an at­
sian army so far have been due friends.
tempt to stifle rumors that 
to poor training." Makoto Hiroiyama was send­
Yeltsin was losing control of the 
"There are 18 and 19 year­ing his wife. mother and child 
WATER: Supply to about60,000 households was suspended.
military. 
olds fighting who don't even out of town to stay with rela­
Yeltsin has complained to re­
ELECTRICITY: About 916,000 households were blacked oul
know how to put bullets in the tives.
porters that his military officers 
magazine of their Kalish­"It's dangerous here, and
have not provided him with ac­
AP 
nikovs," he added. there's no water," he said. "It's
curate reports from the battle­primitive level. Telephone ser­More than 120,000 people
Moreover. the native no place for my elderly mother 
front. but that simply is not vice, power, gas and train ser­sought shelter Tuesday night. 
Chechens have a crucial advan­and my child."
true, said Grazin. vice were still largely knocked In Kobe's Suma district,
tage that the Russians have not The death toll from the
"lie is clearly lying," Grazin out. 70,000 people were evacuated
been able to overcome, he said. quake, the worst to strike a
said. "All one needs to do is In Kobe, which had been a after gas leaked from cracked
"The Chechens are in the Japanese city since 1923,
turn on the TV to lind out what thriving, cosmopolitan city of tanks in a nearby industrial
Caucasian mountain region that climbed to 2,679 by evening. A
Hxactly is happening. 1.4 million, people crouched area.
is their home. They know the teacher from Los Angeles, 24­
"Yeltsin is completely in around campfires and used At shelters, people blinked in
land. For the Russians, this is year-old Voni Lynn Wong, was
charge of the military opera­water from ruptured pipes. the sooty daylight, waiting for
unknown terrain. That, com­among the victims. 
tions in Chcchnya," he added. "It's 'like hell here," said food. A few wandered through
bined with that fact that the At least 14,572 people were
But his control has come at a Satoko Kawase, 26, who lives the rubble, poking at the smok­
Russian soldiers have never hurt. Nearly 900 people were
price. In protest against the use on the city's outskirts. "It's like ing ruins of their former homes. 
been explained what their mis­still listed as missing, but hopes 
of Hussian forces, 25 of the top World War II again." ''I'm helpless. All I can do is
sion is, has made the struggle faded of finding more victims
generals in the Hussian military Hundreds of aftershocks rat­sit around the fire like this and
difficult," he said. alive in the rubble. 
have resigned, putting field op­tled the region. Many people wait," said a middle-aged man
Moscow has given numerous In the quake zone, life in a
erations in the hands of the less were too terrified to sleep in­resting at a shelter in an ele­
high-tech country was suddenly
competent, according to Grazin. doors and spent the night in the mentary school. 
reduced to the most basic and
"' see ANALYSIS/ page 4 open, wrapped in blankets. 


• INSIDE COLUMN 
• • . And not a thing to eat 

Every once in a while, I decide to redeem myself in the eyes of my parents and do the grocery shop­ping for the week. In the past, I just made sure I got everything on mom's list and was out of there in time to catch "The Real World" or "Seinfeld." 
Krista Nannery 

For some perverse rea­
Assistant Viewpoint

son, this year I found 
Editor

myself wandering the aisles of the local 24 Hour Mega-Market Combo Amusement Park/Movie Theater/Day Care Center/Exit on the Info Highway for two hours, marveling at all the really weird debatable nourishment that exists in this world. I started in Fruits and Vegetables, home to our American Masterpieces of genetic engi­neering. Pineapples in January? In New York? Over there I see some Hidden Valley Ranch Cole Slaw Salad Dressing. Cole Slaw? I'll pass. Then there's Weight Watchers Cholesterol Free Mayonnaise Salad Dressing. Oh, just what I want on my salad. A big fat glob of fat free mayo. Over in the ready-to-eat, just peel off the wrapper, stand back or run for cover lun­cheon meat aisle, I see Spam now comes in regular and Lite styles. I don't know about you, but I wouldn't buy Spam ifmy life de­pended on it, 70 per cent less sodium or not. Oskar Meyer is offering an interesting Lunchables Combo. The box says: 2 Meats, Herb Sauce, 2 Cheeses, Mint Wafer. Yummy, Salami, Cheese, and Peppermint! What genius! What culinary artistry! Umm, where's the Rolaids aisle? Time magazine wonders about the "Girth of a Nation." It's really no mystery. Potato Chips come in 1 lb. bags nowadays. Doritos come in not just Nacho Cheese and Cool Ranch flavors, but Nacho CheesiER and CoolER Ranch. And I'm sure there's a big difference. The rest of the snack aisle screams FAT FREE! LOW FAT! LOW SODIUM! CHOLESTEROL FREE! But what difference does all this low fat, no fat food make ifus consumers end up ofT in some corner eating the whole darn bag of fat free pretzels all by ourselves? I couldn't miss the prunes display. There must be a lot of people out there who need these little buggers because there sure are a lot of different kinds. Bite-sized, large, pitted, breakfast, bite-sized pitted, pitted breakfast bite-sized, lemon ... wait, wait, wait. Lemon flavored prunes? Have I missed something? In the cereal aisle, I can't pass up picking up a box of Instant Quaker Oatmeal. The box reads: Kids' Choice #1 Flavor Chosen by Kids Strawberries n'Stuff. Seeds magically appear. Okay, first thing that scares me is this Stuff thing. And what are these seeds that magical­ly appear? Also in the cereal aisle are a cou­ple of brands just brimming with nutrition. Who wouldn't want a little Rice Krispies Treats Cereal for breakfast. According to the box, it "Now tastes even more like Rice Krispies Treats Squares." Gee, I don't think I want to know what they tasted like before. I counted 11 different types of Hamburger 
Helper before I decided it was time to go. It was too much, too overwhelming, all this food and nothing to buy except a six pack of Diet Coke and some Oreos. Fat free, of course. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Viewpoint Ethan Hayward Mike O'Hara Nancy Dunn Lab Tech 
Sports Nicky Batill 
Tom Schlidt Accent 
Production Bevin Kovaik Kenya Johnson Graphics Heather Gibson Tom Roland 


GOP creating lobbying machine to support Contract 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, January 19, 1995 

AnQOIItlon of 
w~ 
Dt-..otofa 
40,000
House GOP Conference 
membem
Rep. John Boehner, R.Ohlo Joyce Hamilton 
Republican

(fanner lobbyist) 
dilllonal

Outreach director 
. Coirim-


The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Jan. 19. 
FRONTS: 
~ ........................... 
COLD WARM STATIONARY · C 1995 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 

H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY VIB Associstsd PtSfJIJ 
APIWm J c....uo 
same thing 

when they were in power at the Capitol, using labor, abortion rights and environmental groups to support their legislative agenda, he added. "We know the left is going to attack what we're doing and it may not always be fair and truthful," Boehner said. "There has to be an effort at counteracting them." 
New Speaker digresses on gender 
Women aren't meant for traditional military combat since "females have biological problems staying in a ditch for 30 days." But they might outdo men at missile computers because males "are biologically driven to go out and hunt giraffes." Newt Gingrich's college course is supposed to be about history, but the new House speaker digressed a 


bit recently to give his views on what separates the sexes. Some nuggets: "We know (what) personal strength meant in the neolithic: You carried a big club and you had a rock. If upper body strength matters, men win: They are both biologically stronger and they don't get pregnant. Pregnancy is a period of male domination in traditional society. If you talk about being in combat, what does combat mean? If combat means living in a ditch, females have biological problems staying in a ditch for 30 days because they get infections and they don't have upper body strength. I mean some do, but they're relatively rare. On the other hand, men are basically little piglets, you drop them in the ditch, they roll around in it, it doesn't matter, you know. These things are very real." 
Partner demands halt to building 
JERUSALEM 

Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin's junior coalition partner today demanded a halt to all Jewish settlement construc­tion in the West Bank, warning that peace with the Palestinians was at stake. Legislators from the liberal Meretz Party complained they were deceived by Rabin about the extent of settlement activity, but stopped short of an explicit threat to quit the government. If Meretz quit the coalition, Rabin's government would fall. Government and private surveys have shown that more than 5,000 settlement housing units were approved for 1994-1995 despite a 1992 Israeli promise to the United States and the Palestinians to halt most construction. A Palestinian official said a majority in Vasser Arafat's self-rule govern­ment favors suspending peace talks until Israel stops all settlement construction. The official did not give names, but Israel radio said ministers Vasser Abed Rabbo and Azmi Shuaibi of the small Fida faction were among those in favor of suspending the talks. 
support conservative issues with­out the need to reinvent it each time a close vote looms, said Tony Blankley, spokesman for House Speaker Newt Gingrich. The coali­tion discussed grassroots capabili­ties, the timing of House action on the balanced-budget amendment and reported progress on each participant's efforts. Boehner said the effort is needed· to combat Democrats' attacks on the con­tract's 10-point agenda, which includes a line-item veto, tax and spending cuts, and regulatory, welfare and legal reforms. The idea of Congress in effect lobbying itself is not new, Boehner said. Democrats did the 

AUanta 63 43 Dallas 45 42 New Orleans 7 4 61 Baltimore 46 44 Denver 39 14 New York 44 40 Boston 38 37 Los Angeles 70 46 Philadelphia 46 44 Chicago 39 29 Miami 79 59 Phoenix 56 38 Columbus 41 33 Minneapolis 28 15 St. Louis 39 35 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday CX£Cpt during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of tbe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Thursday, January 19, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 3 




Retired

Foru01: Respect leads to dignity and justice 
professor

By DEBORAH SCHULTZ ered last night in DeBartolo to nation. The commitment to do The whole concept of justice 
News Wrirer speak about the need for hu­what is right was Dr. King's relies on respect, said Notre man dignity and justice. The most important message, ac­Dame student Rochelle Stewart. 

dies at age 77
Dispelling racism and provid­ten members of the forum cording to Callahan. "This "There are three parts of this ing ways to bridge cultures shared their experiences, commitment means looking at process: a need to realize the were the main themes of thoughts, and beliefs in the another human being and lov­differences between you and Speakout: Notre Dame Women hope of educating those present ing them without seeing differ­me; the need to celebrate this ; Norman B. Haaser, 77, re· 


and Men Speak Out on Human and initiating change. ences. And this all must start difference; and, finally, to re­tired professor or mathematicsDignity and Justice. Professor Carolyn Callahan of at the individual level," said spect that difference" said "' No~re Dame. passed awayPrompted by the celebration the College of Business. heard Callahan. Ultimately, human Stewart. The worst racism is 
Pecember 30, 1994 in

of Martin Luther King Day, fac­Martin Luther King speaking justice will happen when people "someone who smiles at you 
Columl,>ia, M.d.

ulty and students alike gath-four months before his assassi-do what God wills. and then stabs you in the back. 
< Haaser was a 1943 graduate


We all just need to be open; ig­

qt Notre Dame with a bache;. 
norance is far worse than ask­lor's degree in mechanical en~ing questions," she stated. 
gineering. He served in theMany speakers emphasized U.S. Attny for three years be~

the need for self-initiated 
fore retutnlng to Notre Dame.

change. "Dignity is a very per­where he earned his master'ssonal thing and it comes from d~gree in applied mathematics the heart. Learning to love il:\'1948. He received his doc~
JOIN 

yourself helps form dignity," toratf:l in the same field fromsaid Michele Wong, a Notre !lrown University in 1950.
Dame student. 
COOPERS & LYBRAND 
' Ha.a.ser joined the Notre"We need to think and take 

Dame math department in

control in our lives. We can not 
1950 and taught numerical

rely on schools and the media,
FROM NOTRE DAME AND 
analysis and real analysis forbut must educate ourselves. 

40 years. He is the author ofEducation is a life-long experi­three textbooks. "Introduction· 

YOU WON'T HAVE TO 

ence; it never stops and every­to Analysis" and "Intermediate one has something to teach us," Analysis" {with Josephaccording to Terry Porter, a Sullivan and Joseph LaSalle) 
GIVE UP THE TRADITION, 

Notre Dame student. 
and "Real Analysis" (withMembers of the forum em­

Sullivan).

phasized the importance of 
Haaser was a National Sci·
CAMARADERIE, AND 

change beginning on a small ence Foundation faculty fellow scale. "While we all wish to in 1966-67 and in 1969-70change the world, maybe the 
served as president of the
PRESTIGE YOU'VE BEEN 

best we can do is change little 
Indiana section of the 

parts of little worlds, which is Mathematics Association ofessentially a paradox because
ACCUSTOM ED TO. 
AIUerica.

this does change the world," "He did a great deal of ser·Senior Andrea Topash stated. 
vice work for the department," After the speakers finished, said Steven Buechler,the forum was opened up to the Associate Chair of the

audience. Questions arose 
Mathematics Department. "Heexploring the problems which 

managed undergraduates,

prevent change from occurring 
coordinated courses and
INCIDENTALLY, YOU ALSO 

at Notre Dame. 
founded the Norman B. and"I think that this university is 

Beatrice L. Haaser Mass

WON'T BE GIVING UP THE GREEN. 
not conducive to change," said Scholarship Fund. 
Faye Kolly, co-president of 
Associate Professor of Math­

Amnesty International.
Once you've been part of the Fighting Irish, ~-You'll find the right fit at Coopers & Lybrand. 
ematics John Derwent, who"Whenever we want to try any­know Haaser well, spoke of his

no other place comes close. Except perhaps, ~fr You'll be part of an organization that works with 
thing to educate people, admin­active lifestyle and dedication
Coopers & Lybrand. Here people work together as over 400 companies in the Fortune 1000 every day. 
istration refuses to let it hap­to the University. 
a team, in an environment that's open and friendly. While you'll work hard, there'll also be time for 
pen," according to Kolly. 
"He taught math at all levels The speakers encouraged all

Yet individual achievement is not only encouraged other kinds of commitments, from community ser­
and was the assistant chair­peopleto try to live out the ideas man of the math department

but rewarded. Which means vice to kayaking. All the while, 
of Dr. King, to have real con­
Coopers Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P. 
for a while," he said. "He used 

your career can move as far the green will be with you. 
versations with people, and not
&Lybrand cl proless1onal serv1ces f1rm 
to run about six miles a day up 

and as fast as you want it to. Imagine that. 
to let anyone stand in their until a few years ago." 
way; for then human justice Derwent said that Haaserand dignity will occur. 

was also had musical talent, and even supported himself through Notre Dame by play­ing in bands. "When he retired about six years ago," Derwent said, "he still played in about four different bands. He played the saxophone, clarinet and the flute." 
"He was a very active man," he added, "everyone liked 
him... 
Derwent said that during Haaser last year before retire· ment. he devoted his entire salary to starting the scholar­ship fund. 
Haaser is ·survived by a son, Steven A. Haaser or Columbia, Md.• three grandchildren and three brothers. Services were held January 4 at Notre Dame's Basilica or the Sacred Heart, with burial at Cedar Grove Cemetery on campus. 
Memorial contributions can be made to the Norman B. and Beatrice L. Haaser Mass Scholarship Fund, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, lnd. 46556. 



Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 




BE_a 'N BREAKFASI REGISTRY 
Rooms in private homes for: 
Jf'W. BWE & GOlD. GRADUAnON, FOOTBALL and Other Special NDISMC WEEKENDS 
(219) 291-7153 


~~ --------------------~------­
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, January 19, 1995 
Chechens 
continued from page 1 
pounded the city center Wednesday to hold back the Chechen forces. Sukhoi fighter jets flying in pairs screamed over the city, rocketing build­ings, and a Tupolev heavy bomber was seen flying back from a mission. 
The Russian troops had used the central market as a base for attacks on the presidential palace, symbol of Chechnya's independence drive, and had captured the railway station in early January. 
A few hundred Chechens have fought one of the world's most powerful armies to a standstill in the winding streets of 
Analysis 
continued from page 1 
reasons for why it has so ve­hemently opposed the secession of Chechnya, but they are not valid, said Grazin. 
Moscow officials have said that if Chechnya is allowed to secede, then neighboring re­gions will follow suit. 
"The 'Domino Effect' fear is wrong," Grazin said. "In the three years since Chechnya has made its claim for indepen­dence, no one has followed their lead." 
Indeed, the region of Dages­tan, to the east of Chechnya, still relies on Russia for 85 per­cent of its budget, according to a January 7 article in the Philadelphia Inquirer. 
Secondly, concerns that rene­gade criminals running ram­pant in the Caucasian Mountains are engaged in drug trafficking and arms deals does not justify blanket air strikes. 
"Criminal activity does not give the military the right to attack thousands of innocent civilians," Grazin said. 
Thirdly, Moscow officials fear that if the Chechen troops, un­der the command of Chechen President Dzhokhar Dudayev, take control, they will be able to hold the oil pipeline running through the center of the re­gion hostage from Russia's Black Sea Fleet. 
However, that fleet is no longer important militarily, 
Grozny. The Russian army's overwhelming superiority in men and weapons has been blunted by the Chechens' courage and skill in a month­long battle that has cost a re­ported 1,200 Russian lives. 
Still, the Russians reported some progress Wednesday, say­ing its armies had managed to encircle the presidential palace overnight. There was no way to immediately confirm the report. 
After meeting Russia's prime minister on Tuesday, Chechen diplomats said both sides agreed to stop using heavy ar­tillery by Wednesday evening as a frrst step toward a full cease­fire. But the Russian army is heavily dependent on artillery to hold its positions in Grozny and there was no sign of any letup. 
At the Kremlin on Wednes­
said Grazin. 

"Even back in 1989, we [sev­eral delegates in the Congress of People's Deputies] were con­vinced that the fleet should be sold for scrap metal," he said. 
In answer to all these con­tentions by the Russian gov­ernment, Grazin said that the real reason for the continued attack on Chechnya is to divert attention away from Yeltsin's domestic problems. 
"Yeltsin almost completely lost control of the military. Most departments of the gov­ernment have not received a penny of their budget," he said. "Russia simply has no money." 
Russia relies heavily on loan guarantees from the United States and other European countries, but the harsh brutal­ity of the Chechen conflict as well as recent events that have upset the West -such as Russi­a's support of the Serbians in the former Yugoslavia, its posi­tion against the expansion of NATO, and its desire to lift the embargo against Iraq -have put it in a precarious position. 
Grazin, who also serves as a special counsel to the president of Estonia, said that Russian troops will eventually take con­trol of Grozny in a couple of weeks. 
"Russia will then establish a puppet regime and hold sup­posedly 'free' elections, super­vised by the Russians," he said. 
"But military resistance from the villages in the mountains and individual acts of terrorism will ensure that the fighting lasts for a long time." 
Recycle The Observer 


SOUTH PADRE ISLAND PANAMA CITY BEACH DAYTONA BEACH 
I fi 4'11,1J 431 
STEAMBOAT VAIL/BEAVER CREEK 

• Pffi PERSON DEPENDING ON DESTINATION I BREAK OATES /LENGTH OF STAY. 
1~-Bom~.SIJ·NCII-A.S'E 
TOLL I'1IEE INF'00114TIOiol 8. U.S·EJi\.4TIOioi.S 
day, Yeltsin said talks with Du­dayev, the Chechen leader, were out of the question. "We do not want to hold direct talks with Dudayev because he car­ried out genocide against his own people," Yeltsin told jour­nalists. 
Yeltsin added, however, that his government would talk to Chechen field commanders, clan leaders and local officials. 
The Russian president, who has been heavily criticized for sending thousands of troops into Chechnya on Dec. 11, also tried to reassure journalists that he -and not some panel of generals -was still at the helm. 
"Don't worry, everything will be settled soon on the Chechen issue. I am in strict control of the Russian security structures and know the situation every day," he said. "Without me, nothing serious goes on in Chechnya." 
Thousands of people are be­lieved to have been killed since Moscow sent troops into Chechnya, a mainly Muslim re­public of 1.2 million in the Cau­casus Mountains that declared independence in 1991. 
Chechen fighters said Wednesday they would wel­come peace, but would not give up their claim to independence and felt they had the Russians on the defensive. 
They also doubted that Rus­sians would stop using heavy artillery. 
"Our only hope for peace is if the families of the Russian sol­diers stop this," said Ruslan Makhetbive, a Chechen officer. 
Russian civilians remaining in Grozny have grown more and 
Report 
continued from page 1 

year his senior year, and Farmer earned a similar honor in Illinois. Kinder was Notre Dame's leading rusher last year, gaining over 700 yards. 
The South Bend Tribune con­tributed to this report. 
theQesh 
n' meet­
.jteidell<s.o 
~Hchinson. 

hesto see more Pll, J)ouglas Road, ,'·for IDumination 
. . . . ·..··. ramc control pqr­p()se~>> The"Qbservf:)r regretstbe !lttor, ,;r'*wsr 
If you signed up for 
Co~-mJties :~· 
remember the 
RALLY DAY! 
11:00 a.m. -4:00 p.m. 
Saturday. Jan. 21 
LaFortune Ballroom 
lunch will be served! 
If you would still 1/k(: to slen up for Communlti(;S NO, com(; to (;lth(;r Campus Ministry offlc(; by THURSOA Y JAN. 19 for a form. 
Badin Hall 103 Hesl:lurgh Lll:lrary or call Kate Barrett Darrell Paulsen 631-5242 
•

uddll! I~ having a "CoacH" Patty! 


Monday Januaty 2 gtd 7:gor>m-<6: gopm (~how ~tatt!: at ~pm) 
l=tee Pizza, lemonade, and Por>corn fot all. Prizes given aw.ay duting commetcials (a Mountain Bike, Pizza Patties, and othet stuff) 

BtOught to you by: The ~tudent Union Bo~ud, ~tudent Activities&. The Huddle 
Thursday, January 19, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Individual change key to civil rights 
By MAUREEN KOBZA News Writer 
The Civil Rights Movement involves two phases, according to Louis Cantor, professor of history at IU-Purdue, Ft. Wayne. The first ending with the enactment of legislation in 1965 and the second that exists in the hearts and minds of peo­ple today. 
Cantor, a political activist, took part in sit-ins challenging the segregation laws of the South while attending graduate school at Duke University in South Carolina. 
"It was a good time to be alive," said Cantor. He believes the movement "challenged the law" and "made people aware what the problem was." 
There is "an obligation to un­derstand the past and be aware," said Cantor. "That is the virtue of studying the past." 
Martin Luther King, Jr. and Malcolm X were the principal leaders of the Civil Right move­ment that Cantor discussed. 
King began the peaceful pro­cess of the movement. He was viewed by many to be the single most influential spokesperson for a race and a movement, said Cantor. 
King "had a positive effect on the movement. (King) made le­gitimate what previously was illegitimate and acceptable what was previously unaccept­able," said Cantor. 
Malcolm X, a critic of King, was one of the causes for King's acceptance and success, according to Cantor. Malcolm X's pressure from black mili­tants "made the alternative acceptable," he continued. The alternative being King's way of peaceful protest. The militant's "talk and rhetoric made King a hero and acceptable by the white middle class," by turning them away from Malcolm X's approach, said Cantor. 

Some thought they were in­ferior because of the inferior treatment they received. Mal­colm X, though, promoted power and got people to love themselves. 
While the movement was lead by strong leaders and peaceful ways were promoted, the side of anger and hostility was still unleashed. Love and optimism were not seen. 
Cantor said that there is anger increasing in black youths today. "They tend to identify more with Malcolm X." They see firehoses and police dogs on the peaceful protestors and are angry saying, "We (peaceful protestors) should have been fighting back." 
TOUR EUROPE THIS SUMMER 
AND EARN THREE ND CREDITS! 
INTERACT WITH ToP--LEVEL MANAGEMENT & BUSINESS EXECUTIVES 
VISIT ROME & FLORENCE, ITALY; lNNSBRUCK, AUSTRIA; MUNICH, GERMANY; GENEVA, SWITZERLAND; PARIS, FRANCE; LONDON, UNITED KINGDOM. 
SPACE IS LIMITED! 

CONTACT PROFESSOR APPEL 203 HURLEY 1--5265 OR THE MARKETING DEPARTMENT 
Cantor took a class in passive 
resistance where he was taught 
such things as how to deal with 
violence. If they were kicked 
they were taught "to go down 
on the ground in the fetal posi­
tion." Besides physical violence 
Cantor was "called a 'nigger 
lover' while standing in protest 
lines," he said, "I can still see 
the hatred in some of the 
white's eyes." 
Although the Civil Rights Act 
was passed, Maricela Ramirez, 
the director of the Office of 
Multi-Cultural Affairs at Saint 
Mary's, said, "People are not 
automatically going to mix." 
During the question and an­
swer forum Saint Mary's fresh­
man, Aida Tessema, said, 
"People choose to separate. 
When it comes down to being 
with your own kind, (people) 
choose to go with their own 
kind." 
Until people can go into oth­
er's hearts and minds and in­
dividuals change, phase two of 
the civil rights movement will 
continue, Cantor responded. 
Cantor discussed theses chal­
lenges of the Civil Rights 
Movement in his lecture "Civil 
Rights: Experiencing the 
Movement's Contrasts" at Saint 
Mary's on Jan. 18. The event 
was sponsored by the Office of 
Multi-Cultural Affairs. 
• 

1803 South Bend Ave. 
• Campus Shoppes Plaza 277-2974 
Sarin Hall broken into over break 
By LIZ FORAN Associate News Editor 
Sorin Hall was the target of a forcible break-in over Christ­mas Break, according to Charles Hurley, assistant direc­tor of Notre Dame Security. 
The break-in occurred on January 6, he said, and entry was made through a basement window. Nine rooms were en­tered on different floors, apparently by the doors being kicked in, Hurley said. 
Security notified the occu­pants of the rooms by mail, Hurley said, and it appeared that only small items were taken. 
"There were some CD's taken, and some change," he said. "What prevented larger items from being taken was that no cars are allowed on campus. With a vehicle, televi­sions, stereos and computers could also have been stolen." 
"As it is, there were a num­ber of things that couldn't be carried away," he added. 
Hurley said the case is still under investigation. 


The Hammes 

NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
"on rhe campus" 
Special School Rush Hours Tues., Thurs. ,Fri. 9am -6pm Wednesday Bam -6pm 

3M 


INNOVATION 

Scotch 
Scotch 

Post-it
Mailing Tape 
Transparent Tape 

Memo Cubes
(Clear & Tan) 
2/.79 

$2.49
2/$2.50 


.-~-­~ ~ 
I I page 6 The Observer • US NEWS Thursday, January 19, 1995 
UAW predicts nationwide strike Immigrant convicted, 
WORK STUDY AT THE CENTER FOR THE HOMELESS! 
Are you eligiblefor Work Study? 
($ s.70/hr.) 

Would you enjoy working with the homeless? 
Infonnation Meeting Lou Nanni, Director, Centerfor the Homeless Thursday, January 19, 3:30-4:45 p.m. Dooley Room, LaFortune Center 
Want more info? 
Call Felicia Leon 
282-8700 
By BRIAN AKRE 
Associated Press 
FLINT, Mich. 

A strike that could cripple much of the U.S. auto industry within days broke out Wednes­day at a General Motors Corp. plant that makes spark plugs, filters and other parts. 
Some 6,800 workers at the AC Delco East complex walked out when talks broke off shortly before the 10 a.m. deadline set by the United Auto Workers. The plant also supplies parts to Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp. 
The union has complained that understaffing and overtime to meet booming demand for cars are creating dangerous and unhealthy working condi­tions. In addition, the UAW said outside contractors hired by GM threaten workers' jobs. 
Similar complaints led to two GM strikes last year that inter­rupted the flow of parts and quickly forced other factories to close. 
"Most of these guys have been working a lot of over­time," said AI Woodham, a GM autoworker for 31 years. "They're tired." 
GM officials refused to discuss the dispute or the effects the strike will have. But automak­ers' reliance on the just-in-time delivery system for parts makes them vulnerable to any inter­ruption in supplies. 
The UAW predicted that other plants in Flint and Lansing would be affected within a day. Soon after, GM and other com­panies' plants around the coun­try could feel the pinch. 
"Within a week, it will go na­tionwide," said Jill Miron, chairwoman of the executive 
VVorkers ~~ 
strike at crucial plant 


APNJm. J. Castello board ofUAW Local651. 
Chrysler spokesman Alan Miller said he didn't expect Chrysler to be hurt by the strike. Ford spokesman Mike Vaughn said he wasn't sure. 
The Buick City GM plant in Flint produces the Buick LeSabre and Park Avenue, and the Oldsmobile 88 Royale. An­other Flint plant produces vans. The Lansing plant produces the Pontiac Grand Am, Olds Achieva and Buick Skylark. 
Talks resumed for three hours Wednesday afternoon, then recessed until Thursday morning. The union claims that terms of the three-year contract signed in February 1994 are being violated. 
Union officials contend that GM reneged on an agreement to hire 500 more workers and reduce overtime to relieve the pressure on employees. Hiring new workers, with benefits, is more expensive than using out­side contractors. 
Products made at the Flint complex include spark plugs, fuel system components, cruise controls, instrument clusters and a variety of air, fuel and oil filters. They go into new GM vehicles and are sold to other manufacturers, repair shops and stores. The last strike at the plant was in 1970. 
"If they're out for a couple of days or the remainder of this week, I'd say no impact," said Chris Cedergren, an industry analyst with Auto Pacific Group Inc. in Thousand Oaks, Calif. "But if it goes into next week and gets prolonged, that will shut down production." 
Workers picketed outside the plant, and passing cars honked their horns in support. 
"Nobody wants to go on strike," Woodham said. "It sounds crazy, but sometimes it's healthy if it gets things mov­ing. But everyone loses money on the deal." 
GM officials hoped for a quick settlement. 
"We will continue to work ... to reach agreement with as lit­tle disruption as possible to our employees and our customers," said George Albrecht, director of human resources for AC Delco. 
no parole recommended 
By SAMUEL MAULL 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
A Lebanese immigrant who admitted spraying a van carry­ing Hasidic Jewish teens with bullets was sentenced today to 141 years in prison for killing one and trying to kill the oth­ers. 
"The court will recommend against release of this defen­dant on parole -ever," said state Supreme Court Justice Harold Rothwax. 
On Dec. 1, a jury rejected Rashid Baz's claim that he had suffered post-traumatic stress syndrome because of a horror­filled childhood in Beirut. 
There were 15 students on the van when it was hit by gun­fire March 1. Sixteen-year-old Aaron Halverstam died and three others were wounded. Baz was convicted of one count
I 

NTERNATIONAL WORKING OPPORTUNITY 
RECRUITING DATES: February 1, 2 and 3 at Career and Placement Services. Open to all majors. 
of murder and 14 counts of at­tempted murder. 
At the sentencing, the judge took to heart the pleas of Nachum Sasonkin, 19, the most seriously wounded survivor, and Devorah Halberstam, Aaron's mother. 
"This killer must spend the rest of his life behind bars," urged Mrs. Halberstam, who called her son "a gem of a hu­man being." 
She indicated she would like to see Baz killed, but noted that death is not an option. New York currently has no capital punishment. 
Sasonkin, crippled and barely able to speak because of a gun­shot wound to his head, told the court that he wanted to "see justice done." 
Defense attorney Eric Sears pointed out that Baz had never before been convicted of a crime. 
Thursday, January 19, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page? 
Gifts to aid Colloquy's goals Farrakhan questions 
Special to the Observer University's School of Architec­last will and testament, 
government role in plot 
ture building. Designed by the "through my lifelong devotion 
The University of Notre Dame libraries, law school, legal aid clinic, school of architecture, recreational sports program and Snite Museum of Art all are among the beneficiaries of re­cent major gifts to the Univer­sity. 
The gifts will allow Notre Dame to continue implementa­tion of the goals of its Colloquy for the Year 2000, the Universi­ty's blueprint for future ad­vancement. 
"The legendary generosity of Notre Dame's alumni and friends has helped to lift the University into the top ranks of American higher education," Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C., the University's president, said in acknowledging the gifts. 
Among the recent gifts to the University are the following: 
*$5 million (from an alumnus wishing to remain anonymous) to renovate and expand the New York architect Edward L. Tilton, the building was dedi­cated in 1917 as the Universi­ty's main library. The renova­tion and expansion is scheduled to begin next summer and be completed by January 1997. 
*$5 million from alumni and brothers Thomas J. and Robert 
T. Rolfs for a center to provide enhanced recreational pro­grams for students, faculty. and staff. The center is among the new facilities recommended in the Colloquy final report. Among the many previous gifts to the University by the Rolfs brothers was Rolfs Aquatic Cen­ter, completed in 1985. 
*$1.2 million from the estate of Chicagoan Mary Frances McNamara to establish the Mc­Namara Scholarship Fund in the Notre Dame Law School. A longtime Chicago Public School teacher who died last year at age 99, McNamara wrote in her 
The Observer 
is now hiring 

Circulation Drivers 
This is a paid position which requires drivers to deliver papers between 11-2. Ifyou are interested in doing this any weekday please call Joe Riley at 631-5313 
to Mary Our Mother, I have been blesses with a long, pro­ductive and happy life . .. In thanksgiving, I bequeath all of the rest, residue and remainder of my estate ... to her uni­versity, the University of Notre Dame duLac." 
*$200,000 from an anony­mous donor to establish an en­dowment for the Snite Museum of Art's ethnographic art collec­tion. The collection, housed in the Snite's Arts of the Americas, Africa and Oceanic gallery, includes a variety of Mesoamerican, American In­dian and African art and fea­tures one of the nation's finest collections of pre-Colombian Olmec art. 
*$100,000 in grant funds from the Retirement Researc'h Foundation to create a Legal Advocacy Clinic for the Elderly. Currently. some 15 percent of the caseload of the law school's Legal Aid Clinic involves clients to render increased assistance in cases involving Medicaid, Medicare, social security ap­peals, wills and trusts and other prevailing concerns of older clients. 
*More than $95,000 in grant funds from the Charles E. Culpeper Foundation to estab­lish a preservation center for the University Libraries. Outfit­ted with new equipment for testing, cleaning and other physical treatment of library materials, the center will en­gage in preventive care, con­servation, reformatting, mass deacidification and general preservation of the University's more than 2 million library vol­umes. 

By SHARON COHEN Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
When the feds announced they'd broken up a sensational murder plot against a fiery black leader, the intended tar­get lashed out, but not at the accused, the daughter of Mal­colm X. 
He saw another enemy: the very U.S. government that said it was trying to protect him. Since Qubilah Shabazz, the 34­year-old daughter of Malcolm X, was charged last week with trying to arrange the murder of Louis Farrakhan, the Nation of Islam leader has defended the accused and castigated the authorities. 
Rather than praising the FBI agents who say they foiled a plot to kill him, he asserts the plot is a government ploy to undermine black unity. Farrakhan's charges are the latest example of the deep­seated suspicion of U.S. gov­ernment that some experts say is common among American blacks. 
"There is a genuine distrust and it's well-earned," said Zak Kondo, author of "Conspiracies: Unraveling the Assassination of Malcolm X" and an assistant history profes­sor at Bowie State University in Maryland. 
"They know how the judicial system works," he said. "They . know what police brutality is. They know what discrimination is.... Whenever the government is acting like it likes blacks, antennae are going to come up and people are going to say. 'What's going on here?'" 
It doesn't take much asking to reveal widespread black dis­trust of authority. In the inner cities, rumors abound of vague government conspiracies to destroy black America, by pumping in drugs, spreading AIDS or locking its young men in jail. Other circles, though. can point to concrete examples of government persecution. They cite documented FBI harassment of Martin Luther King Jr., Malcolm X and the Black Panthers in the 1960s. 
And they update their lists of grievances with recent federal prosecutions of black elected officials, notably Marion Barry. the Washington, D.C., mayor convicted of cocaine possession after an FBI sting videotaped him smoking crack. Some blacks suggest Barry was en­trapped, reviving a claim that prosecutors selectively go after successful black politicians. 
"There's a folk notion in the black community that black people are more heavily scru­tinized than whites ... and there are people out to get you," said Elijah Anderson, a sociology professor at the University of Pennsylvania. 
Farrakhan made just that point Tuesday night, telling cheering supporters the gov­ernment is trying to smear him, spread dissension and revive speculation he was involved in the 1965 assassination of Malcolm X. 
"The old, false, filthy propa­ganda campaign has been dug up, dusted off and redirected. this time against Louis Far­rakhan," he said, while re­asserting his innocence in Mal­colm X's death. 

RETU~~l~ ~~lNG FOR FALL SEMESTER 1995? 
A pre-registration deposit form and $100 (if required) MUST be mailed to: University of Notre Dame Cashiers Office Notre Dame, IN 46556-5632 
DEADLINE: January 25, 1995 
If you have not received a pre-registration deposit form and are a continuing undergraduate student, forms may be obtained from the Office of Student Accounts 102 Main Building. 

-·-------------~ 
VIEWPOINT 

Hate me, that's why I'm here! 
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor/Viewpoint Sports News/Photo Accent/Saint Mary's Day Editor /Production General Information 
• SOCIETY WHIRL 
Observer Phone Lines 
631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.l@nd.edu 631-7471 Unix observel®boron.helios.nd.edu 

What a relief it must have good men and women of the been to my readers when I armed forces, just for the sake abandoned all pretense of of a facile tirade. A perverse, expertise in topical matters. effete wuss with Eastern airs. Columnists are grotesque paro­Is that the sort of thing I'm pay­dies, hideous burlesques of ing ghost alumni money to sup­understanding. Just ask Rod port? By gob, I'll brain that Lekey, a "lieutenant, US Navy" Ozersky with my shillelagh! who thinks me unfit for any but Just you hold me back! menial work "in the warehouse Sorry, I got carried away of Quickie Mart." That is a bit there. But I don't like the harsh, Rod. Does the job image of myself that came to include health benefits? me in these white-knuckled let­
But as the President says, ters. It occurs to me that the Rod, I understand your pain. It same people who voted for the vexes me, too, to constantly lis­Republicans in the election ten to the self-serving whines of probably had somebody like me boorish nobodies. My friend in mind. I occasionally watch Professor Rice, ~ertainly a Rush Limbaugh on the televi­some­sion for a body by few sec­a n y 
onds at a account, time, and probably the only
Josh 

hasn't way any­had one one could of his take that
Ozersky

columns fat bastard read all is if they the way were run­through ning on since 1983. And what of the pure resentment. That's what nationally syndicated colum­he keeps laying on -how elite nists, from among whose num­bureaucrats want to knock ber I am inexplicably missing? down your trailer park, how Are they any better? Prissy the Clinton Administration nerd George Will, with his wants to give Snoop Doggy Dog sucking up to demagogues and your job and all your bowling his smarmy praise of baseball. shirts, etc. He could never get Or "Uncle Thomas" Sowell, the away with that if it didn't serve mindless conservative mouth­the purposes of his viewers to piece of the white establish­believe in snooty, mischief­ment? That guy is as dumb as making liberals. They don't a box of hammers, and yet the like him any more than I do, Hoover Institute pays him about they just like being worked over twelve times what I get from against the left. Meanwhile, of the university. I ask you, is that course, it is the democrats who fair? At least I don't make a passed the family leave act, living keeping the Black Man who raise the minimum wage, down. · who proposed a health care 
And what about me? Sure, I system which did not have as can dish it out, but can I take its main purpose the peonage of it? Picking a fight with the lower-middle class workers. 

Who, in other words, are clear­ly the party of labor vs. man­agement, and the defender of the working class. This is what happens when people stop watching wrestling and started listening to obese agitators. 1 never knew the Iron Sheik was so useful to society. 
When I read all the bizarre stuff people occasionally write to me (and believe me, we don't print any but the tiniest portion of it) I understand the process. So powerful is the desire to have somebody good to hate ­to loathe with impunity, to vir­tuously des.pise -that even enriching a bloated, self-impor­tant dope like Rush Limbaugh or Newt Gingrich is not too light a price to pay. But lets be hon­est about it. I refuse to believe that the tiny fraction of Americans who actually voted for these creeps actually believe they are going to do anything, anymore than these tense ROTC students really think I "insulted" P.O.W.s. No, I understand, go ahead and hate me. That's what I'm here for. But don't get physical! I'm too yellow to defend myself! I'll leave that to bankers and media moguls controlled by international Jewry. Take a swing at me, buddy, and your parents lose their mortgage. 
Say! That would make a good piece of legislation. Let me get my special pink phone out to call the other members of the liberal elite. Maybe we can get a new disease started or make some sexy new TV shows. That'll show you who your enemies are. 
Josh Ozersky is a graduate student in history. His e-mail address is joshua. a. ozer­sky.1 @nd. edu. 


I a&ANW 711&. ATTIC, SIR, 
IAJAITA M!NUT&­
YOUAPP 7HAT TO FOUR 

8UT I JU5TWN7 5E& HOW 
/A/HATABOUTMY
IN 7He 6U89TR.OOM, ANP YOU COUW FITMOR& 7liAN 

8WRIXJM? 7HAT~
YOU'!?E toOKI/116 AT A TOP7HR£3& lJI3I?S UP 

816 &NCV6H FOI<CAPACI7Y OF ~V&/11 K!/?5,1
7HE/?E ... 

AN07H&R51X aJT5 
Thursday, January 19, 1995 

• lETTER TO THE Erti!OR 
Degrading comments show random sexual harassment 
Dear Editor: 
On Wednesday, Dec. 14, the Student Union B . held a final exam stress reliever that took place in the LaFortune Ballroom. One of the methods of advertisement we decided on was for three of our volunteers to dress up, one of us as Santa Claus and two of us as Christmas presents, and go to the Dining Halls to distribute information about the event. Although we expected to receive teasing from our friends for looking silly, we were not prepared for the degrading and humiliating comments that we were sub­jected to. We did not see our Christmas present rnstumes as sexu­ally suggestive -a wrapping paper-covered caJ ..board box with cut-outs for our arms and head worn over a turtleneck and jeans; however, numerous people obviously did. Approximately fifty peo­ple, none of whom we knew, made very suggestive and degrading sexual comments about what we wearing and what they would like to do to us and to our costumes. We were asked, among other things, what we were wearing under our costumes, if people could unwrap us and, most offensively, we were called "boxes" and told that getting our "box" would be a great Christmas present. 
I would like to express my disgust and disappointment with these individuals' behavior. It seems that despite the outcry last semester about degrading comments made in some certain hall notes, some students still feel that it is acceptable to sexually harass complete strangers. I don't know what it will take to get these students to understand the fact that sexually degrading com­ments are never funny and never tolerable. No matter if you know the person or not and no m!J.tter what she or he is wearing, this kind of behavior is always unacceptable. To anyone who does feel that it was okay to say such humiliating things, I hope that it doesn't take your sister or your mother or your girlfriend to expe­rience such treatment before you realize that words that might just be jokes to you can deeply hurt those you say them to. 
BRIDGET CONLEY 
Student Union Board Manager 
Senior 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
•
ACCE-NT 
Thursday, January 19, 1995 
page 9 

• MUSIC REVIEW 
The StoV\e Roses' highly aV\ticipated SecoV\d ComiV\9 wo~th the wait 
By ROB ADAMS Music Critic 
The Stone Hoses are really back. After a year-long battle with their origi­nal record company (Silvertone), a plush eontract from their new record company (DGC), many attempts of recording through unorthodox methods, an atti­tude of perfectionism which resulted in a lot of tossed material, and countless false rumors that their new album would be out "next month," their highly anticpated return was worth the wait. Sporting their first album of new materi­al in live years, their firm stance on tak­ing as long as they wanted has resulted in an astounding piece of work. 
In the five years that they've been gone, The Stone Hoses have not slept through the music scene's metamorphi­sis. Elements of American grunge and the new British mod revival &re present, hut their Manchester roots, developed through such rhythmic guitar gods as .limi Hendrix and Led Zeppelin ~eign over every song. Ian Brown's vocals float gently on the dense waves of sound, cmating an oceanic effect; lis­tening to Second Coming is similar to the patterns of the tides: powerful, relaxing, and unpredictable, but invari­ably consistent. 
The Stonn Hoses are known as much for their steadfast arrogance as they are for their undeniably catchy music. Besides naming·their debut album after themselves and featuring songs with such titles as "I am the Hessurection," "Shoot You Down," and "I Wanna Be Adored," they've boggled the media with a few of their stunts. At the height of their popularity in Britain, the Holling Stones asked them to be the opening act for some of their British shows on the Steel Wheels tour. "Maybe, if the bill were the other way around," was their response. A'i proof of the fact that their attitudes had not changed, they recently granted their first interview in five years-to a British magazine that can only be bought from homeless people on the street. 
British pop is on the verge of making some major noise in the U.S. for the first time in a long time, and The Stone Hoses could be the catalyst for a new invasion. With bands like Blur, Oasis, and Echobelly slowly but surely gaining acceptance in the United States, critics have stopped trashing every new band that comes from England, and it is very possible that fans will follow suit. 
The drama that caused certain fans to wonder if The Stone Roses were even still alive is heightened by the first song on the disc, "Breaking Into Heaven." A meandering and gradual introduction of four minutes reminiscent of 1990's "Something's Burning" precedes the actual song's beginning. The arrange­ment of those four minutes is so gor­geous that it is almost impossible to for­ward through it. even though it's not yet the flow which will be encountered in the song. 
When the beat finally does come in, however, you realize that they're back in full effect with signature thick wah­wah pedal riffs by guitarist John Squire and relentless groove by drummer Reni. Slicls_\y produced and patient, "Breaking Into Heaven" reaches a bridge at the eight-and-a-half minute mark and still the song is wonderfully interesting. The Stone Roses finish the song with one of their long, exploratory jams which wisks the song away to its ultimate close. 
For The Stone Roses, unlike many other bands who like to take time to just sit back and jam, it has become some­thing of an art form. When one of their songs is extended fm,1r or five minutes by a jam session, it is carried to new heights, rather than just filling up some space. Sometimes, a jam that they play is more descriptive then the vocals themselves. 
A feedback hum begins the best song on the disc, "Begging You." For those fans who consider "One Love" or "Elephant Stone" The Stone Roses' greatest achievement, this song will def­initely not disappoint; it's the only song on the disc which really allows Reni to flex his percussion muscle: the beat is the dominant force of the song and even when it stops for a few seconds, it is sorely missed. 
"Love Spreads" is the first single released off Second Coming and that was the wisest choice possible. It fea­tures a sound present on their old stuff to appease the die-hard fans, but carries a great pop melody with it, to gain new acceptance from radio airplay. It fea­tures Brown's best vocal moment, as the drum fades and he murmurs, "Let me put you in the picture/Let me show you what I mean/The messiah is my sister/Ain't no king, man she's my queen." 

Other highlights of the aptly-titled Second Coming include the exploration of Southern rock and its harmonies on "Tightrope." A fresh tamborine sound and crisp hand claps along with the highly noticeable background vocal sup­port punctuate the vibe. 
An acoustic guitar pairs with some riffs run backwards for a sweet effect on "Your Star Will Shine." The song "Driving South" features a great guitar section and meshes outstandingly with Mani's bass. 
For those of you who were fans of The Stone Roses way back when and have hesitated about getting the new one, don't wait any longer; Second Coming is all you could have hoped for. For those of you that never got into them the first time, this is your chance; The Stone Roses fuse a number of musical styles and the result is amazing. I dare any future 1995 release to be better than this one. 
-

Mani: bass 
--~----­

page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, January 19, 1995 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar CoUege Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. AU classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Is it Am looking for OC hO!Jsing. Got a HOMES FOR RENT I need two tickets for the Kentucky LOOK OUT BRIDGET'S: I'm enjoying this, I'll have more of
NOTICES 

room? Call Emily @ 233-4345 NEAR CAMPUS basketball game. Call x4015 if you STELLAR KELLEHER IS 20 that THANK YOU 232-2595 havesomelllll TODAY. MAYBE SHE'LL FINAL-or 
SEMESTER JOB earn up to $10/hr call 289-{)704 
WANTED 
Barefoot Bahamas Spring Break Sailing Cruise! Free brochure 1 (800)359-9808 
Spring Break! Bahamas Party Cruise 6 Days $27911ncludes 12 Meals & 6 Free Parties! Great Beaches & Nightlife! A HUGE Party! Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights Air & Hotel From $4291 Spring Break Travel1-800-678-6386 
Florida's Spring Break Hotspots! 
PANAMA CITY OCEANVIEW 

-ROOM WITH KITCHEN $1291 WALK TO BEST BARSI Cocoa 
SKI RESORT JOBS-Hiring for many positions (including summer). Up to $2,000+ in salary & benefits (Free ski pass, ski equipment, meal discounts). Ski!Snowboard instruc­tors, lilt operators, wait staff, chalet staff, +other positions. For more information call:(206)634-0469 ext.V55842 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING-Earn up to $2,000+/month working on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­panies. World travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.). Seasonal and full-time employment available. No experience neces­sary. For more information call1­
206-634-0468 ext. C55842 
WANTED: 2400 baud external modem. Call Mike@ 4-1840 Apts. in student occupied 3-llat, heat included. *Large 1 bedrm-$300 *Small, furnished 1 bedrm-$260 755 South Bend Ave.-1 blk west of ND Ave. deposit, 1-800-582-9320 

For Rent Responsible couple or single per­son to rent a.2 story home. 2bd up, dwn: LR, DR, Kit & 1 bth. No pets. Super clean. Ready to move in. Ref Req. 1302 Clover St. SB 289-8818 
FOR SALE 

IBM PS/2 Model 30 20MBHDrive w/Microsolt Word 4.0 & WP 5.1 $350 or BO Call631-7466 
LYGETSOME. This isn't really enjoyable, but NEED 4 TIX FOR XAVIER, GA's or HAPPY BIRTHDAY! somehow, I still want more STUDENT! LOVE, GRANDMA 
i've said something (sigh) 

I need help cleaning house Thurs. two times ... 
afternoons, 2 1/2 hrs, $15, call234­
PERSONAL 
4498. staph, who were you talking to in 
CLUB23 KITCHEN OPEN 8-3 
AUDITIONS! AUDITIONS! The Widow Ranter still needs per­formers for its cast. Anyone with any interest at all should come to auditions on Monday, January 23. They will be in 284 Nieuwland at 
7:00 p.m. If this time and date are a problem, contact James Glazier at631-4010. Performance dates are March 2 and 4. AUDITIONS! AUDITIONS! 
front of debartolo? i didn't see any­Bridget's OPEN 8:00-3:00am one there. 
Fri1-20-Karaoke Cap. Morg. 1.50 Sat1-21-Band Jello Shots $.75 no, we were not walking in circles Nat. Pit. 2.50 
SUNSHINE TO THE CARROLL FRESHMAN I I miss you. Sorry aboul this week, WAS SUPPOSED TO MEET@ but who cares anymore. We know THE BOOKSTORE TUESDAY what's up, huh? You are my sun­
2:30: I'm so sorry I missed you-just shine, my only sunshine. You make wanted to say thanx 4 the offer of me happy, when skies are graylll books, I dropped theo 2001 See you in May -when we take all 
this on TOGETHER. Love you. 
Hey Pooh! You're lucky, I'm here Nic-Nac: what in the world is going and you're not. I don't know what I on? Can you believe all this was thinking. Besides I gotta deal though? That's why we need to be with all my stuff with Oric and together -to tackle all this pettiness. Nicole and Lisa and C'dell. What a Don't worry. I'll take care of it. I'll mess. See you back at the cribber. handle everybody -even Mark. 
Beach (Near Disney)-27 acre Deluxe Beachfront Resort 7 Nights 

FOR RENT TICKETS
$1591 Key West $2291 Daytona FOOD FOOD Can you hear it? That slight under-
II

Room with Kitchen From $12911-FOOD Hey Yoda, I can't believe we've ground pillar-patter of rodent feet. 800-678-6386 CLUB23 been deserted! II Watch out--it will soon be a thunder. 
NEED 2 TIX FOR THE KENTUCKY KITCHEN OPEN 8-3 Coming this Groundhog's Day. Spring Break! Panama Cityl 8 Days Room available for rent. 15 mins BASKETBALL GAME ON FEB. 12. At least we have the hammock and Watch out Student Afairslllllllllllllllll Oceanview Room with a Kitchen walk from campus, safe neighbor-CALL ERIN AT #4015 the company of Kurt and Ed to $1291 Walk to best barsllncludes hood and a neat and well kept HAPPY BIRTHDAY, keep us contentl What more could Have fun Negam. And please try to Free Discount Card which will save home. $225 a month, includes use PATRICK CARROLL we ask for? OK, so its not perfect make the 9:05 on Friday. you $100 on food/drinksl1-800-of all utilities. Serious students pre-I need 2 tix to XAVIER GO CHARGERSIII but its as good as its gonna gall 678-6386 !erred. Call Paul at (219)-232-2794. CALL 273-6212 Where's your tooth, Patricia? 
CAMPUS MINISTRY••• 
•••CONSIDERATIONS 
TALES FROM BEYOND THE LINEBACKER 
A friend of mine told me that she was sick of being so superficial all of the time. She said that she had become aware that she talks a lot about things that do not really matter much to her. Even when she has been with close friends, the conversations with them tend to be about things like campus fashions, the next football weekend, class assignments, what happened last weekend at The Linebacker, and whether to order a pizza from hall food sales or Papa John's. 
Lately, she has felt the need to talk with friends about matters which are becoming more important to her. 
As she nears graduation, questions like "What's life supposed to be all about?" and, more specifically, "What do I want my life to be all about?" are becoming more important to her. She does not expect clear cut answers, but it would be nice to be able to talk about the questions with somebody. She wonders if she is the only person who feels this way. 
Perhaps her friends and others are feeling the same way she is. 
danger in life is never really letting anyone get to know us and never really getting to know anyone else. A danger in life is never letting anyone know about what matters most to us. 
Many people, want to talk about what or who is most important to them. They want to talk about where they see or do not see their lives going to. They want to talk about where they would like to see their lives go. 
Ifyou're like me, you do not want to talk about this heavy, deep and 
real stuff all of the time. Yet, once in a while, you need to get in touch with what matters most to you. 
People at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's try to become less superficial in a variety ofways. Usually, relationships just develop, not without some work, that allow people to talk about what is really happening in their lives. Some people are able to talk about what they feel and think deeply about in their classes. Other people learn something and find out about what matters most to them by experiences with people who suffer or who are poor in Urban Plunges and Summer Service Projects. 
Let me highlight two ways in which people try to become less superficial at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's: 
Fourth Day meetings present people with the opportunity to listen to each other and talk to each other concerning the challenge of Christian living. Various topics are presented and discussed. The Fourth Day meetings take place every Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in the Stanford­Keenan Chapel. ALL ARE WELCOME. 
Communities ND is another way in which people try to talk about what matters most to them. In Communities ND, relatively small groups of men and women (8-10) come together to reflect on what's going on in their lives in light of their faith. It is up to the members of the group to determine the level of the conversation. It is unrealistic and probably undesirable to think that Communities ND would be groups of people who are always spilling their guts to each other. Yet, the opportunity for people to talk about what matters most to them is there. Ifyou are interested in finding out more about Communities ND you are welcome to a Rally Day, this Saturday, January 21, from 
11:00 a.m. to 4:00p.m. in the Ballroom of LaFortune (that includes food!). 
Often, we come to know ourselves better by listening and talking to other people. You may feel that you really do not know what matters most to you at this point in your life. Maybe by listening and talking to other people, you may come to know what really matters most to you. And, you do not have to give up talking about weekends at The Linebacker to do that. 
-Bob Dowd, C.S.C. 
THIRD SUNDAY IN ORDINARY TIME 
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica 
Sat. Jan. 21 5:00p.m. Rev. Robert Moss, C.S.C. Sun. Jan. 22 10:00 a.m. Rev. Terence Linton, C.S.C. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. Thomas Gaughan, C.S.C. 
,8-10 2:12-30. :14-21 

----------------~----------------------------~------~---~----------~-­
Thursday, January 19, 1995 page 11
The Observer • SPORTS 
•NBA  
'Big Dog', Baker lead Bucks  'General' Grant has  
over slumping Bulls 97-93  rallied the Kings  

By MIKE NADEL 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 

Glenn Robinson scored 24 points and Yin Baker 23, and each made a big basket in the closing minutes Wednesday night, leading the Milwaukee Bucks to a 97-93 victory over the Chicago Bulls. 
With Michael Jordan looking on from a luxury box he shared with Frank Thomas -another ballplayer on a long vacation ­the Bulls stretched their sea­son-high losing streak to four games. 
Todd Day added 19 points for 


Sign up for service this semester. 
Come to the Social Concerns Festival: 
Thursday, January 19, 1995 
Center for Social Concerns 
7-9:30 p.m. 
(Over 35 service and social action organizations will be represented') 

the Bucks, who had lost 16 By ROB GLOSTER straight at Chicago since last Associated Press winning here in 1988. 
SACRAMENTO, Calif.

It was 88-88 before Baker 
Brian Grant has always beendrove around Luc Longley for a comfortable playing in obscu­layup to put Milwaukee ahead rity, from a small-town highto stay with 2:13 left. 
school to Xavier University toAfter Scottie Pippen missed a the usually woeful Sacramento3-pointer, Eric Murdock made 
Kings.
a short jumper. Pippen's layup But now Grant and surprisingpulled Chicago within 2, but Sacramento are coming out ofRobinson picked up a loose ball the shadows. 
and hit a 17 -footer just before Grant is among the league'sthe shot clock expired for a 94­top rookies in most offensive90 Milwaukee lead with 56.1 
categories and has helped leadseconds left. 
the Kings to their best startSteve Kerr made his fifth 3­
since 1982-83 -when the
pointer -in five tries -to team was still in Kansas City.
bring the Bulls within a point. 
The 6-foot-9 forward had ca­But after Marty Conlon made reer highs in points (26) andone of two free throws, Kerr rebounds (16) Tuesday night asmissed an open 3-pointer with the Kings went on a late 15-0
run to defeat the Portland Trail Murdock clinched the Bucks' Blazers 95-88 in a game thatvictory with two free throws. 
featured a fight and three ejec­tions.
Kerr led Chicago with a sea­The victory gave Sacramento,
son-high 19 points and Toni 
shut out of the playoffs sinceKukoc added 16. Pippen had 15 
1985-86, the seventh-best
points, 9 rebounds, 6 assists 
record in the Westernand 6 steals but also had 6 
Conference at 20-15. That's anturnovers and was 4-of-16 from 
improvement of eight games
the floor. 
since last season.
Chicago led 57-52 at halftime 
And it's threatening to ruinand then scored the first 10 
Grant's quiet life. 
points of the second half to take "I like this," he said earliera 15-point lead. 
this season, "because it's a
But paced by Day's 10 points, place where you can grow. TheMilwaukee used a 22-4 run to 
team has been down and
take a 7 4-71 lead. The spurt there's no exposure."
was punctuated by Baker's Grant is nicknamed
one-handed dunk on an alley­"General" because he grew upoop pass from Murdock. 
in tiny Georgetown, Ohio, the boyhood home of Gen. Ulysses 
S. Grant. As a teen-ager, he expected to stay in that farming town or get a factory job ­until he played a year of varsity basketball. 
He went on to star at Xavier, but got little attention outside Cincinnati. He was characteris­tically humble when the Kings made him the No. 8 pick in the NBA draft, saying, "Just give me about $2.50, so I can get me a Dr. Pepper and a bag of chips." 
Grant got considerably more than that. After holding out for most of training camp, he signed a 13-year, $29.3 million contract. 
He has averaged 16 points and 10 rebounds per game since moving into the starting lineup on Dec. 27. Long arms, a soft shooting touch and ex­ceptional quickness allow Grant to post up against smaller play­ers and drive to the basket against bigger opponents. 
Grant showed off all those skills on one sequence Tuesday. He blocked a shot, then fin­ished off a Sacramento fast break with a finger roll. 
"Brian has unbelievable quickness inside," Detroit coach Don Chaney said after a recent loss to the Kings. "He presented a problem for us with his quickness. He played very aggressively." 

51400 31 North
SATURDAY NIGHT!-ONE SHOW ONLY! 
(219)277-1291
South Bend, IN 46637 
"THE FINEST IN OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING" 
·FOUR AND FIVE BEDROOM TOWNHOMES 
·TWO BATHROOMS 
·SECURITY SYSTEMS 
·KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE 
DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR, AND RANGE ·WASHER AND DRYER IN EACH UNIT ·GAS HEAT
NATIONAL TOURING COMPANY 
·CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING 
Saturday, Jan. 21 at 8 p.m., O'Laughlin Auditorium 
·PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT 
$4 Saint Mary's/Notre Dame community, $3 all students 
·24-HOUR MAINTENANCE 
Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's box office,O'Laughlin, 
•ONE MILE FROM THE NOTRE DAME
9-5 Mon.-Fri. Discover, Visa, MasterCard: 219/284-4626. 
CAMPUS 
NOW LEASING FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 
232-8256 

~~asyli,~tG& 
Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets It Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
Clocktower Square 



Thank God she didn't inhale . .. 

Thursday, January 19, 1995 
Hoops 
continued from page 16 
season total of 21 to date. 

Rounding out the scoring tal­ent for Notre Dame is Junior Carey Poor and Senior Letitia Bowen who both averaged dou­ble digits in the latest winning streak. Bowen, a 6'0" forward from Buchanan, Michigan, is nearing two major milestones in her career. In a few more games she will most likely become the university's all time leading rebounder as well as score her 1,OOOth point. 
The recent successes took a brief hiatus as the squad lost to Depaul on Monday, but the team intends to pick up where it left off with a rematch against Wright State tomorrow. 
"We can't overlook Wright State because they're going to come here ready to play," Morgan said. "We'll have to play our game, execute, and play tough defense." 
Plus: 

Little Milton 
will play /or your entertainment! 
i\\EE1~ \Tttlllt IIA~I(·Ttt·S~Ittttl.4 IEEIIS \\'11~H 
PILOT 
...... ­
® 

Quality Writing Instruments Since 1918 
il\';lil;lltl~ ;Jt THE HA!\\!\\I~S lttfl·~ lt;1111~ lltttti(Sfttl·~ 
4tll tile £;UIIItiiS 
[PILOT] [PILOt] 


Thursday, January 19, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
•NFL 
.. 
'Captain Cap' Policy has beaten the salary cap 
By DAVE GOLDBERG 
Associated Press 
SANTA CLARA, Calif. 
A year ago, Eddie DeBartolo and Carmen Policy rode down an elevator at Texas Stadium after the San Francisco 49ers had lost the NFC championship game to Dallas for the second straight year. 
"Do something!" DeBartolo snapped at his longtime pal. 
Policy did. 
Instead of moaning about the new salary cap, he managed to reduce a payroll of over $50 
Cooking isn't for you? 
Its never too late to sign up for a meal plan and let us
-
do the cooking 
Several meal plans are available to meet your specific needs. For more information, call 631-7814 or come into the Access Office on the lower level of South Dining Hall anytime during the semester. 
(Access Office, SOH-Room 4, formerly Vali-Dine Office) 
Off-Campus Meal Plans Notre Dame Food Services 
million to the required $34.6 million and still plugged the defensive gaps that had kept the 49ers from the Super Bowl. 
His moves were aimed at one thing: beating Dallas in the NFC title game, exactly what the 49ers did last Sunday. 
Now they take their six new defensive starters to Miami, where San Francisco can be­come the first franchise to win five Super Bowls. 
To 49ers owner Eddie DeBartolo and team president Carmen Policy, that's nothing 

your tutu 
less than their birthright. If Jerry Jones, Tom Benson, Dan Rooney and other owners don't like it, too bad. 
But how do you cut $15 mil­lion from its payroll find a way to fill its holes at the same time? 
Ask Carmen Policy, "Captain Cap." 
Rickey Jackson, Gary Plummer, Richard Dent, Charles Mann, Bart Oates. To 27 other NFL teams, they were good players past their prime, banged up, commanding big 
On February 4th you can give these exams a shakedown run: 
LSAT~ 
GR 


intonnation 
ca\\ tor more e a space. 
d to rese..,
an 


Take a free 2 1/2 or 3 hour test, proctored exactly like the real thing. After the exam, Kaplan teachers will map out test strategies that will help you ace the exam on the test day. You will also get a detailed analysis of your test-taking strengths and weaknesses­a useful guide to your best study route. You have nothing to lose and 
knowledge to gain. 

It's a safe way to get experience and confidence for test day. for more Information, caii1-800-KAP-TEST. 
salaries for diminishing per­formances. Just the kind of guys the cap made expendable. 
Ken Norton -a linebacker in his prime and a major part of the defense the 49ers knew they had to beat to get back to the top. 
Deion Sanders -immensely talented, but a showboat, a big­mouth and, wor.st of all, un­reliable. Who wanted a guy who wouldn't show up until the baseball season ended? The 49ers. 
Not only did they sign Norton and all those old guys, but they managed to get Sanders with a lot less money than other teams offered. It changed the face of the defense and turned the 49ers from a team with a laid­back image to a trashing-talk­ing "in-your-face" outfit that even changed the attitude of their coach, George Seifert. 
''I've had more fun coaching this team than any I've ever had," says Seifert. "These were all character guys who put the team first. Deion most of all." 
It started before the end of the 1993 season, the last without a cap. 
Outside the NFL, nobody re­ally noticed when commissioner Paul Tagliabue set Dec. 23 as the date for redoing and extending contracts without it counting in 1994. Even less notice was taken of the fact that in 1999, the last year of the col­lective bargaining agreement, there would be no cap. 
Carmen Policy did. 
So even while the 49ers were harboring hopes of going to last year's Super Bowl, Policy and his "capologist," an accountant named Dominic Corsell, were redoing contracts to extend them into that capless year, even when the beneficiaries would no longer be playing. 
Just as important, Seifert and the coaching staff were making decisions on players with whom they could do without. 
Like other teams, the evalua­tion related production to salary with emphasis on the most basic need -speed on defense, like the Cowboys. Cap aside, they had to draft better to make up for such disappoint­ing high defensive picks as Dana Hall, Ted Washington and Todd Kelly. 
Then came the difficult deci­sion to rid themselves of valued veterans who had lost a step ­linebacker Bill Romanowski, cornerback Don Griffin, full­back Tom Rathman, guard Guy Mcintyre and backup quarter­back Steve Bono, among others. There went around $4 million in cap money. 
Now came the new guys. 

The 49ers needed a run-stop­ping linebacker, and Seifert gave Policy a list. At the top was Plummer, an unspec­tacular but solid veteran who had spent the last eight years in San Diego. He was the first free agent signed, on March 24. 
"The first place we looked was the 49ers. That was the last place we looked," says Plummer, who had been of­fered $300,000 a year to re­sign with the Chargers and got $1.8 million for two years in San Francisco. 
Working with agents, Policy was able to get veterans to ex­tend or readjust contracts through capless 1999. 
April was big. On the 21st, the 49ers signed Norton, a plus for them, a minus for the Cowboys, and a dagger in the heart of Jones, the Dallas owner who has maintained ever since that San Francisco "mortgaged its future." 
Three days later came the draft, the overlooked part of the equation. 
San Francisco added four players who were to be starters -defensive tackle Bryant Young and fullback William Floyd -to future stars such as linebacker Lee Woodall and kicker Doug Brien. Young, taken with the seventh overall pick, was an indirect benefit of the deal that sent Charles Haley to Dallas in 1992 -it gave the 49ers an extra pick to trade up where they could get him. 
Now came the tricky part. "We're 72 cents under the cap," Policy said after the draft, and he wasn't kidding. 
So bodies were subtracted. When Mcintyre went to Green Bay, the 49ers replaced him with Oates, the 36-year-old center who had been a fixture with the Giants but was deemed expendable on a rebuilding team. 
GErmE 
MIDICAL ~~..SCHOLARSIDP'\v~ YOUNEID. 
~ If you're a medical stu­
dent, you have enough on 
your mind. Today's Air Force 
offers a scholarship program that 
can greatly reduce your financial 
burden. Participation Is based on 
competitive selection. Get more 
information with no obligation. 
Call 
USAF HEALm PROFESSIONS TOLL FREE t-800-423-USAF 


,_ 

-~--------~ 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, January 19, 1995 
• COUEGE fOOTBAlL •NHL 
..
_ 
Irish's Martin Teams, fans ready to start 
By KEN RAPPOPORT The Ranger captain, who had Associated Press The Vancouver Canucks still not settled his contract dis­played in a highly-charged en­pute with management, said he 
Forget about the "Madhouse vironment in Game 7 of the would be at the Garden to help on Madison." How about the Stanley Cup Finals. Now it's the raise the banner. 
madhouse at Madison Square 
Sabres' turn to play in another Meanwhile, the so-called Garden? 
emotional environment. "Madhouse on Madison" will 
The Garden will THE place for John Muckier, the Sabres' be quiet in Chicago while the 
hockey fans when the New 
coach-general manager, Blackhawks travel to Detroit for York Rangers finally open the 
doesn't think it will affect his their opening-night game. NHL season Friday night with a 
team. The Blackhawks, who will be 
game against the Buffalo "We have an older team," playing in the new United Sabres, one of eight in the 
Muckier said. "We're pretty Center across from the old,league that night. 
mature. I would like to think we noisy arena on Madison Their fans have waited a long 
can handle a situation like Avenue, won't christen their 
time for this night -first 54 that." new place until next years for the Stanley Cup and 
Muckier said the Rangers Wednesday against Edmonton. then another three months for have requested that Sabres not In other games Friday, it's the 1994-95 season to open. 
sit on the bench during the cer­Pittsburgh at Tampa Bay,With the owners' lockout be­emony, "out of courtesy." Chicago at Detroit, Calgary at hind them, the Rangers will fi­
The Rangers will feature Winnipeg, Anaheim at nally raise the Stanley Cup ban­
many of the same players who Edmonton, Dallas at ner to go alongside. the other 
helped them win the Cup last Vancouver, St. Louis at San 
three that have hung there season -including Mark Jose and Toronto at Los 
since 1940. 

Messier. Angeles. 
inducted into Hall 
Associated Press 
LARCHMONT, N.Y. 

Paul Robeson, the Rutgers All­American who became famous as a singer and movie star, will be posthumously inducted into the College Football Hall of Fame this year after being spurned for decades because of his politics. 
Blacklisted on Broadway after 1945 as a communist sympa­thizer, Robeson was passed over by the Hall for many years until it announced Wednesday he was among 13 new in­ductees. 
Robeson, who died in 1976, was an All-American in 1917 and '18 and is considered by many the greatest athlete in 
Rutgers history. He also let­tered in baseball, basketball and track. 
Also among the inductees an­nounced by the National Football Foundation were run­ning back Jim Brown of Syracuse and coach Frank Kush of Arizona State. 
Also selected to the hall were Chris Buford of Stanford, Tommy Casanova of Louisiana State, Jake Gibbs of Mississippi, Rich Glover of Nebraska, James Grabowski of Illinois, Jim Martin of Notre Dame, Dennis Onkotz of Penn State, Rick Redman of Washington, Billy Sims of Oklahoma and Mike Singletary of Baylor. 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY 

KATE! 
LOVE, KRIST¥, TABBI, ANGIE&TIFF 
OFFICE Ul· RECRL\ riUJ\:AL ~PORTS 


1. 
This is a new campus, co-ree event. 

2. 
Game is played with six players (3 men and 3 women). 

3. 
Roster minimum of 10. 

4. 
Equipment provided by RecSports. 

5. 
Games begin February 1st. 

6. 
Captains' Meeting -1/19, 5:30p in JACC Auditorium. 


For more information please call the RecSports Office at 631-6100 



-
-

.----------------------------------------------------­
Thursday, Januray 19, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 15 CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WAITERSON 
CLOSE TO HOME JOHN MCPHERSON 
lll S~\JT Sltlll'l\S\IC. Cli'\N\0!-I'S \=OR 1-\0VR'S ON EN\1, R\Q\C\JLE t>N'<oNt. 

I't'<\ n\\1'\'(\~E. Cf Slf\R\\NG ~~~~OWl'\ Tf\lK 
W\-\0 D\'Sf\<:;Rt.ES Win\ t-1\'C, AND 
GEN'CRt>-LL'( I'OST'CR \l\\1\ 'SW£.t-.IESS, ., C'{N\CI'SM, A.N'V /'>. LCY'I'ltR LEIJEL ~ 01' I'V\SL.IC. 0\f\LCX:.' 

AA'iJ\0 5\-\0W . 
\ 
!il 
I 
l 
I 

L---------------------~· 
DILBERT 
If I LEFT ENGINEERING AND 
,. 

I THINK IT WOULD BECAME A MANAGER WOULD 
~ 

DECREASE YOUR SEX I BE AS SEXY AS I AM 
~ 

APPEAL BY 17%. BUT NOW, LIZ? 
THAT'S J"UST A
" ~ 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 25 Overtippled 55 Portrayal 32 Tough 56 Available, in a
1 Instrumental hit situations way
of 1964 33 Tennis champ 57 Eagerly
5 Underwater 
Ramirez et al. expectant

acronym 34 Charles G. 
59-happens

1060's singer 
Finney novel &0 Undermine

James 
"The Circus of 61 Quotable

14 Bellicose deity 
Dr.-" catcher 

15 Patti LuPone 
37 Served well 62 They may be 

role 
felt 1& On the road 
38 Football's 

Ronnie etal. 63 Not as dotty 17 Leaning 
39 Handful of hay 64 Brittle cookie 18 "Cheers" in 
40 Stimpy's TV pal Chihuahua 41 Indian royalty DOWN19 Point at the 42 Jai alai basket 

dinner table 1 Dig 43 Not at all proper
20110% 2 "0 patria mia," 45 Drop out
23 "I didn't know e.g. that" 48 Mighty symbol 3 Beef alternative 24 Conqueror of 49 Like Tijuana, 4 Transferred, at 
1521 e.g. law 5 Sonnet's end 6 Geometry's 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE -ofCassini 7 Memphis locale 8 "Three men in 
28 Cart pullers 9 Extremists 29 Black Bears' 10 Hash house home 11 Amid 30 Like some cereal
12 Rouen relative 31 Hush-hush
13-Rock, Australia 34 Have trouble with sisters? 
21 Some shirts, informally 35 Movie pooch 22 Scads 36 Harlequin ­(varicolored
26 Worship from 
stone) 38 Nursery outfits 
27 Ivory items of old 38.School times 


-'" 
SCOIT ADAMS 
WHAT IF I GOT MY HAM RADIO LICENSE TO COMPENSATE FOR 
THE LOSS? 
LOOK AT MY 
!!:: 
' 

41 Marge Schott's 47 General Powell boys 
50 Brisk dance 42 Mayfair hotel 
51 United Churchemployee of Christ college 43 Falls upon 52 Adam of fiction

44 Taxi driver, 53 007's school
often 45 Throw away 54 Latvian capital 
48 Not even 58 Humdinger 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

• 

WaJI\t to be a pa~t of the most iJI\te~estiJI\g aJI\d evocative 
Obse~ve~ 
depa~tmeJI\t? 
Check otAt ViewpoiJI\t. 
CaII 5 tAZ}.' F ~l' at 631-4541 
·­
SPORTS 
page 16 Thursday, January 19, 1995 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

New year, new records 
ByKC. GOYER Spans Writer 

· Hear that? Its the sound of records breaking, milestones tumbling, and opponents falling. Its the Notre Dame women's basketball team mak­ing noise since the start of the new year. 
The ruckus started on January 2 when the Irish de­feated the University of Dayton, 80-63. Within a little less than two weeks, four more teams­Xavier, Wright State, Cleveland State, and Detroit-fell before the Irish onslaught. All four teams are memb·ers of the Midwestern Collegiate Conference, thus earning the Irish an undefeated record in their conference. The average margin of victory was 18 points. 
The Notre Dame team took the words "Christmas Break" very seriously as several records were broken during the past few weeks. 
Sophomore Katryna Gaither, a 6'3" center from Mount Vernon, NY set the record for the most points scored in a game with 34 against Cleveland State on January 9. Gaither hit her first 10 field goals, and ended the night at 16 of 20, in addition to two from the free 
. throw line. 

"[Tryna] gets the ball and says, 'I'm going to the basket, try and stop me,"' Coach Muffet 
Maroons pull away towards the end, beat Belles 71-55 
By JENNIFER LEWIS their lead by sixteen points. Saim Mary's Sporrs Editor "Chicago is a good team," said Katy Lalli. "We should have kept up with them, but they started 
The affects of a long vacation was apparent hitting their shots and we didn't." last night as the Saint Mary's basketball team The Maroons only scored two more field goals(3-7) fell to the University of Chicago (10-3) by 
than the Belles. However, they made eighteenthe score of 71-55. 
out of twenty-three free throws and five out of "The long lay off really hurt us," coach Marvin twelve three pointers.Wood said. "We were very sluggish on offense, "We came in here not knowing what to our timing was not so great and our passing was expect," Chicago's Anne O'Brien said. "We had just plain okay." 
to be prepared until the final buzzard." The Belles were in control of the first half, only Jenni Taubenheim, the highest scorer out of trailing in the last minutes 32-29. The group of both teams, with twenty-two points, made reserves called "the rabbits" came in during the 
slightly less than half of the points for the Belles. first half and played for three minutes in order Freshman Brenda Hoban was the second lead­
to revive the starting five. ing scorer for the Belles with eight points, Sarah 
_,. 
According to Wood, when the Belles would put Kopperud and Barbara Howells tied with seven, in their second string, the Maroons would put in and Kristen Ross shot for five. 
Kim Dennis. "I think Saint Mary's is a good ball club," Two players guarded Dennis at all times, yet 
Chicago's coach Susan Zawachi said. "Theyshe still managed to hit for six points from the have just played a bear of a schedule." 
floor and two from the line. "We had to be ready for this game, because in "Dennis created a problem," coach Wood said. 
the past it's always been a close game." "She was extremely tall and very talented." 
Saint Mary's plays Goshen College Friday night In the second half, the Belles' stamina dropped 
at 7 pm. and Chicago used it to their advantage. The "We will have our hands full against Goshen," Maroons took a solid lead of ten points until the 
Wood said. "This is their best team in five final minutes of the game when they increased 
years." 



McGraw commented. The final team. Sophomore Beth score was Notre Dame 90, Morgan, a 6'0" guard from Cleveland State 66. Indiana, scored double digits Gaither also pulled down 12 for the 30th consecutive game, rebounds and rejected 5 shots and has registered double digit in the game, earning her points in 39 of her 41 career 'Player of the Week' honors. games. Both are Notre Dame Her 80% shooting percentage in team records. Morgan contin­that game has landed her a ues to be the team's leading national ranking of 24th with a scorer, averaging 17.7 points cumulative percentage of per game,_ as well as lead the 64.1%. team in three point shots with a 
Scoring records are the latest trend for the '95 women's see HOOPS I page 12 
The Observer/Cynthia Exconde 
Jennie Taubenheim scored 22 points for the Belles in a heartbreak­ing loss to the rival Maroons of the University of Chicago. 

A 'GENERAL' AMONG KINGS
-
Rookie Brian Grant has stepped out of the shadows and has been a key leader in the -Sacramento King's turnaround season. see page 11 






