-----------~------­

Monday, February 6, 1995 • Vol. XXVI No. 80 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S . 
Sullivan-Mitchell wins SMC election Notre Dame 
position for the 21-member lent programs and make them Durie also hopes to serve as a
Board of Governance (BOG) Todd Leahy, a Grace junior;
BOG. This new position would bigger and better and get new member of BOG but says she is
which is as equally committed Kevin Klau, a Morrissey junior, 
and diverse as this year's BOG. serve as a Campus ideas," she said. unsure of whieh position. 
and Larissa Herczeg, a Howard
Communieation Coordinator Raczkowski says the election Paluszak also says she will
"We had 200 people working junior; Alejandro Montoya, a
and would work on the possibil­went well and that all three contribute ideas for the im­
on our campaign and we would St. Edward's junior, and
ity of a weekly newsletter. tickets had good ideas. provement of the campus. 
like to keep that kind of team­George Fischer, a Fisher ju­
work and all those people in­Mitchell said she was sur­"The key is that everyone is "I am surprised by the elec­nior; and Michelle Mudry andprised by the election results still involved," said Raczkowski. tion and I thought that it would 
volved," said Sullivan. Jennifer Szarek, both Howard
but her main concern is also to "I will do my best to still get in­be closer but I wish Sarah and
Sullivan also mentioned she 
get a committed group. volved. I might run for a senior Racquel luck," she said. "It is
will look into creating a new 
see DEBATE I page 4
"I want to continue the excel-class office." going to be a tough year." 
Office of development 
TAs ordered to vacate office 
By EDWARD IMBUS history, philosophy, and of how to house our graduate
appoints three directors 
News Writer romance languages, according students, " he said, saying that to John Davenport, Graduate space was being actively
Special to the Observer law office in January 1992. 
A make-shift group office, Student Union representative sought, although none had yet
Notre Dame's office of 

mainly used by teaching assis­for the philosophy department. been found and acquired. 
Three new appointments in planned giving administers tants in the College of Arts and The room was never intended "In the exploratory {Colloquy 
the University of Notre Dame's gifts received by the University Letters, has been ordered va­for office space, according to for the Year 2000) meetings,ol'f'iee of deve lo pm en t have through estates, trusts and cated to make room for the Harold Attridge, the dean of the the need for graduate officebeen announced by Daniel similar arrangements. 
integration of the Educational College of Arts and Letters. Ini­space was identified, possibly
lh~agan, direetor of develop­Also: 
Media-on-call Department to tially intended for storage and in the form of a 'graduate cen­
ment. Patrick Krueger has been ap­
the new Business Building. technology support, the Writing ter"' about the size ofMiehelle Shakour, formerly pointed assistant regional A memo sent last semester by Progam designated it for Arts LaFortune, "or a building withassistant direetor for the office director of development for the Edward Kline, director of the and Letters TA's. both graduate and facultyof planned giving at the Great Lakes region. 
Freshman Writing Program, Temporary plans have been offices to facilitate interactionA 1973 Notre Dame gradu­University of ~ 
instructed all graduate students made to use 216 between them," he continued. 
Notre Dame, ate, Krueger has been a devel­using DeBartolo room B002 to O'Shaughnessy Hall during this Davenport was not optimistichas been opment director for Holy Cross 
\A 
remove all their personal prop­semester, Attridge said, but about the University's search,
promoted to High School in Everett, Wash., 
erty from the room by plans for next semester and the or of its interest in doing so,
director of -and Hayden High School in 
December 22, 1994. future have not been set, as and said that the effect on the office. /. Topeka, Kan. 
This action will primarily "office space is very tight." undergraduate students would
Shakour JL ""(" .... In his new position, Krueger 
aiTect T A's from the humanities "This is a current manifesta­

replaces " will report to regional director 
Christopher "· +-• ,.,..,. deapartments of government, tion of the long-term problem see OFFICE I page 4
Thomas Blum and will assist Carlin, who Shakour the University's development has left the efforts in Indiana (outside the post to become the University's South Bend area). Kentucky, director of administrative ser­Michigan, Ohio, West Virginia, vices. Wisconsin, Western 
Shakour, whose appointment Pennsylvania and Ontario, was eO'ective Jan. 1, joined the Canada. planned giving office in July 1993. John llannan has been ap­
A 1978 graduate of St. pointed assistant regional Mary's College, she obtained a director of development for the master's degree in Spanish Midland region. from Middlebury College in A 1978 Notre Dame gradu­1981, a master's degree in sec­ate, Hannan has been a di­ondary education from Indiana rector of major gifts at University-South Bend in 1987, Earlham College in Richmond, and a juris doctor degree from Ind. the Notre Dame Law School in Reporting to Daniel Crossen, 1990. regional director of develop­
From 1988-90 she taught ment. Bannan will assist the Spanish at Notre Dame. University's development efforts in Colorado, Minnesota, Following her graduation New Mexico, Nebraska, North from Notre Dame Law School, Dakota, Oklahoma, the South she was an associate of Jones, Bend area, South Dakota, Obencahian, Ford, Pankow & Texas, Wyoming, and Central 
Lewis before opening her own and South America. Grace Hall freshmen Colin Hutt, Jeff Ford and Mike Feehan, who live in a fifth floor study lounge have decid­ed to convert their residence into a ball pit. ' 
By LAURA FERGUSON 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
Sarah Sullivan and Racquel Mitchell will lead the Saint Mary's community next year as the student body president and vice president for academic af­fairs and college relations. 
Last week's elections reflect­ed that the Sullivan-Mitchell ticket claimed 70 percent of the total votes. 
Paulette Haczkowski and Heather Durie brought in 17 percent while the ticket of Jen l'aluszak and Leanne Jones re­ceived 12 percent. One percent of the voters abstained. 
In total, 37 percent of the total student body cast a ballot in Friday's election, which is a concern of Sullivan's. 
"In the past couple of years, not many people have been vot­ing," said Sullivan. 
"A good goal to set is to have half of the total student body voting," she added. 
According to Sullivan, her first goal is to put together a 

candidates

Saint Mary's College Election Results 


to debate 
By LIZ FORAN Associate News Editor 
The race for student body president is getting tighter as all seven pairs of candidates prepare to debate in the LaFortune Ballroom tomorrow night at 7 p.m. 
The debates will help stu­dents to decide between the many pairs, based on candi­dates postions on everything from relations with University administration to increased student participation in cam­pus concerns. 
The pairs of candidates are: Jennifer Allen, a Pasquerilla West junior, and James Delaney, an Alumni junior; Matthew Golish, a Morrissey

Racquel Mitchell junior, and Robert Brett a 
37% of the total student body voted Grace junior; Stacey Kielbasa, a Pasquerilla East junior, and 


page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Monday, February 6, 1995 
• INSIDE COlUMN 



Stop 
The 

Insanity 
Stop the insanity. Just tune into late-night 
T.V. on any day of the week, and you will no doubt hear a brazen, buzz-cut blonde scream these words. 
No, it's not a bad hor­ror movie or a stupid human trick. It's Susan Amy Schmidt Powter, a health and fit-News Copy Editor ness guru who is the star of a weight-loss infomer--------­cial, and now has her own daytime talk show. 
Powter is a shrewd business woman, and the product she exploits is fat-how to cut it from your diet, sweat it off your body, and basically see it for the "demon" that it is. 
She promises that through careful grocery shopping and exercise, you too will be on the road to Kate Moss-land. 
Her battle cry is "Stop the insanity !" urg­ing devoted followers to abandon all previous weight-loss programs and do it the Powter way. 
"Stop the insanity?!" A question I have for Powter is, who exactly is the insane one? 
Yes, I admit that I like fattening foods. But then again, who can deny that those late night cravings dancing through your mind feature chocolate chip cookie dough ice cream and pepperoni pizza, and not carrot sticks? 
I truly admire people can stick to a weight­loss plan and swear off fat forever. But such a lifestyle becomes a problem when obsession takes over. 
It becomes a problem. when each meal is a contest-a contest to see who can whip up the most bland, fat-free meal in the dining hall. 
It becomes a problem when the Stairmaster is the closest thing you have to a date on Sat­urday night, and Snack-wells fat-free cookies become your binge food. 
It becomes a problem when you measure other people's worth by the size of their waist­line rather than the size of their heart. 
It becomes a problem when you spend so much time worrying about food that you have no time left to enjoy it. 
Think about it. When was the last time you went through a 24 hour period without hear­ing someone mention fat or weight? 
Or when was the last time you looked at a person, and thought ( silently or otherwise) that he or she would be so cute if they only lost a few pounds? 
If you are not bombarded by commercials or magazine ads, you can rely on dorm-mates to stress over that extra sprinkle of M &·M's on their yo-cream. 
I think that as a society, and especially as a college community, we have become obses­sive-compulsive about the "F" word. It per­meates all we do and reduces the idea of a meal as a communal sharing of food and conversation to a never-ending biochemical battle. 
My theory is that we should stop worrying about what kind of food we eat, and start rec­ognizing that we are lucky to have so much. 
After all, food should be seen as a blessing 
and not a curse. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Lab Tech  
Brad Prendergast  Jenn Rezeli  
Melanie Laflin  Production  
Sports  David Diaz  
Mart Casey  Kenya Johnson  
Joe Villinski  Accent  
Viewpoint  Krista Nannery  
John Lucas  Graphics  


• Wom..D AT A GLANCE 
Two Killed, 16 Hurt in Manila Blasts 
MANILA, Philippines 
Two grenades exploded in a suburban market on Sunday, killing two people and injuring 16, authorities said. 
A second explosion seriously injured one man and destroyed five cars in a shopping mall in another part of the city. Police said they were investigating to see whether the blasts were related. 
A middle-aged man was killed instantly when the grenades exploded at 5:30a.m. at the Cloverleaf Market in Quezon City. A woman died later in a hospital, police said. Fifteen people were hurt. 
A radio station quoted bystanders as say­ing they saw several men chasing the man who was killed before the explosions. 
At 4:10 p.m., a powerful blast seriously injured one man and damaged five cars at an upscale shopping center in suburban San Juan. 
Police said they didn't know what caused the blast. 

Mom dies to save twins 

EUGENE, Ore. 
While pregnant with twins, Mrs. Barbara Barton put off treatment for leukemia so she would not harm them. The delay, however, proved too much and Mrs. Barton died Jan. 22, six months after the twins were born. Her cancer -chronic granulocytic leukemia -was diag­nosed in December 1993, the same day she learned she was pregnant. She and her husband, Jeff, decided against an abortion. In July 1994 she gave birth to a healthy son and daughter. Her condition quickly deteri­orated and she underwent a bone marrow transplant in August. She was sent home in mid-December and doc­tors expected her to survive only a matter of days. "She got to go home and play with the kids out of the 
00. 

hospital environment, and that was really uplifting to her," said family friend Kit Fisher. "I think that's probably what kept her going was having that time with her family and with her kids. She had a very, very strong will." Mrs. Barton died at age 36 at the hospital where she had worked as a transcriptionist and her husband is a nurse's aide. 

Teen spikes teacher's coffee 
SAN JOSE, Calif. 
A 13-year-old boy is accused of spiking his science teacher's coffee with a mix of chemicals the teacher had warned could kill with a single drop. Another stu­dent at Ida Price Middle School told the teacher not to drink the coffee just as she was about to sip it, police said Friday. Patrice Stabile told the class a few months ago that the mixture, Benedict's solution, was potent enough to kill a person with one drop, police said. Poison Control officials said the chemical is not fatal, but could make a person sick. The solution, which con­tains copper sulfate and potassium, is used to detect sugars in science experiments. The student spiked the coffee when Stabile left the room briefly Wednesday, police Officer Louis Quezada said. The boy is being held in a juvenile detention center, charged with assault with a deadly weapon. School and law enforce­ment officials were trying to determine a motive. "The student has nothing personal with the teacher and has never been suspended," superintendent Barry Groves said. "It's very confusing." 


Honda scandal explodes 

CONCORD, N.H. 
It started with a local Acura dealer upset that he didn't get all the cars he says he was promised. It turned into a nationwide investigation of kickbacks in which 19 people have pleaded guilty, three face trial this week and two more have been charged. Prosecutors allege that dealers in 30 states gave execu­tives of American Honda Motor Co. up to $15 million in cash, Rolex watches, fur coats, Mercedes-Benzes, fur­niture, pricey business· suits and college tuition. In return, dealers allegedly were given lucrative franchis­es and scarce Hondas and Acuras that could be sold for $3,000 above sticker prices. Three former executives have pleaded innocent: John Billmyer of Raleigh, N.C., Stanley James Cardiges of Laguna Hills, Calif., and Dennis Josleyn of Penn Valley, Calif. Their federal trial begins Tuesday. Assistant U.S. Attorneys Michael Con­nolly and Don Feith said they know of no commercial bribery cases this big. If convicted, Billmyer would face up to five years in prison, Cardiges 40 years and Josleyn 30 years. 

Assisted suicide still an issue 

BOSTON 
The state legislature is about to embark on a debate all but unimaginable a decade ago: whether terminally ill patients should be able to commit suicide. Three months after Oregon voters approved an assisted sui­cide law that was promptly blocked, opponents remain steadfast in their belief that taking a life -assisted or not -is immoral and should not be sanctioned. "Our teaching is on the dignity of a human person," said Gerald D'Avolio of the Massachusetts Catholic Conference. "This affronts it it turns a physician into 
000 

an assistant in a killing." Under a bill introduced in the Massachusetts House, a patient must consult with three doctors, including a psychiatrist, if necessary, before attempting suicide. Physicians must be satisfied the pa­tient is "capable, is acting voluntarily and has made an informed decision" before issuing a prescription for a lethal dose of drugs. "We need to enter into a deep and long discussion in this society about how life ends," said bill co-sponsor Rep. James Marzilli, a Democrat. "I think it's inevitable that everyone is going to have this discussion, every single state," he said. 

Monday, Feb. 6 
Accu-Weather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 



New Orlean 58 37 New York 36 10 Philadelphia 36 05 Phoenix 82 53 St. Louis 3413 
Roben Bollman 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


-~ --~--~-~---­
Monday, February 6, 1995 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page 3 



Increasing air bag thefts Russians fear shuttle leak 
By MARCIA DUNN
concern auto insurers 
Leal<y jets threaten

Associated Press 
CAPE CANAVERAL, 
rendezvous An
By MICHAEL WARREN urban, high-theft areas. 
steering

Fla. 
Russian space officials thrusters
Associated Press Car-theft rings are creating 

The message from the 
NEW YORK their own market for unexplod­Russian Space Agency to NASA OK, New Car Driver: You've ed bags in some areas by steal­was clear Sunday: No way can pulled out your detachable ing them from cars and selling your leaking shuttle come near radio, packed up any valuables them back to body shops. 

our Mir. 
and installed The Club. Now is One such ring stocked up in With time running out, NASA it safe to leave your car on the December at a dealership in ordered Discovery's astronauts street? San Gabriel, Calif. They cut to temporarily shut down and Not quite, police say -the through a fence, broke win­repressurize a leaking jet in a most attractive item to thieves dows and removed 17 air bags 

long-shot effort to stop the 
is still there on the steering from new Camrys in less than 

drainage and permit a close 
wheel, ripe for the plucking: 30 minutes, said Mike 

encounter Monday with 
your air bag. McGuigan, general sales man­Russia's orbiting Mir station. 

"It's the fastest growing ager at Puente Hills Toyota. 

Russian officials insist that, 
The American shuttle was to
scheme in stolen parts," said Body shops and salvage yards 

unless the steering jet stops 
approach to within 35 feet of the
Jack Dever, who oversees fraud also pay petty criminals to sup­spewing fuel, Discovery must 

Russian station on Monday.
control programs for USAA ply them with air bags from 

stay at least 400 feet from Mir auto insurance. "You can get a specific models of cars, police 
-365 feet farther than 
brand-new Mercedes or other say. 

planned. They fear the small high-priced car, they'll forget "They deal a lot with crack­
chunks of frozen propellant
everything else and go to the heads," said Officer Joseph might damage critical opticalair bags." Clark, who investigates auto 

sensors on a Soyuz capsule
Auto companies spent years theft in New York City's Queens 

attached to the station and figuring out how to make air borough. "They'll send them needed by the three Mir cosmo­
bags safe, reliable and easy to out with a shopping list to get 

nauts to return to Earth next 
replace after an accident. This the things they need, and hope­month. 

also makes them easy to steal. fully they'll come back the next Mission operations director "It takes three minutes," said day with an air bag." 

Randy Stone said National 


Kim Hazelbaker, senior vice The New York Police Depart­other side." 
Aeronautics and Space 
the U.S. and Russian space agencies agreed that Discovery would forgo the close encounter if any one of seven critical steering thrusters failed. 
One of those key thrusters began leaking Saturday, but the five Americans and one Russian aboard Discovery stopped the seepage by turning the jet off and repressurizing it. They tried the same thing Sunday on the thruster that began leaking shortly after Friday's liftoff, but to no avail. 
Later, they reduced the pres­sure even more in a last-ditch attempt to eliminate contami­nants and thereby close that jet's valve. 
While the leaking jet is not crucial for a close approach to Mir, it's linked to two other jets, one of which is. To turn ofT one jet in the cluster knocks out all three. 
Stone said if the leak contin­ues -and it probably will -all three jets in that cluster would be shut ofT. thus eliminating the leak but keeping Discovery at a distance of 400 feet. NASA could wait until early afternoon 

president of the Highway Loss ment recovered 2,100 stolen Administration engineers The original plan called for Monday when Discovery is 400 Data Institute. air bags and engine computers Discovery and its crew of six to
believe the leaking nitrogen feet from Mir to make that deci­
"You unfasten four bolts, in a sting last August that net­fly within 35 feet of the station
tetroxide would not attach to sion, because the approach is 
there's a clip connector that ted 14 arrests. as a dress rehearsal for the
anything and poses no danger. the same whether the shuttle 
you unplug, you walk away "The majority of places were first shuttle-Mir docking in
But the Russians aren't con­zooms in close or hovers at a 
from the vehicle and you now more than willing to take the June. NASA wanted to see how
vinced, "and it's their call," he distance. Most likely, a decision 
stuff," said an undercover offi­well the shuttle handled next to
have a part that retails for said. would come earlier in the day. 
$1,000." cer who spoke on condition of a 100-ton station and test navi­
"They don't fully understand "I hope we're not still debat­Insurers aren't reporting anonymity. "I sold the air bags all of the capabilities of our gation and communication sys­ing it at 400 feet," Stone said. 
such a problem with passen­for $25 to $50, then we bought tems.
vehicle.... It's mostly just the He added that NASA had not 
ger-side air bags because they them back posing as car own­very methodical and conserva­"Obviously, the closer we can given up yet on the close tend to be built into the dash­ers for $200 to $300." tive engineering approach that get the better it will be," said approach.board and are harder to reach. With factory-made replace­Discovery pilot Eileen Collins.
they take to things when they If this were the June docking
Thefts of unexploded air bags ments costing from $360 to "But even if we only go to 1,000 mission, the linkup would pro­
don't have a full knowledge of 
are still fairly rare in many $1,800, there's big money in feet, if we only go to 400 feet, if
the system," Stone said. ceed as planned despite a leak­places, but insurance compa­stolen bags. And once they're "And by the way, it's proba­we only go to 100 feet on this ing shuttle jet because of the 
nies and police say it has put back in, it's very difficult to flight, we will still be getting a
bly the same approach that I crucial need to switch Mir 
become a serious problem in tell what's inside. lot of good information." 
would take if I were on the crews, Stone said. 
Months before the mission, 

r--L'!:chSpeda/--, r-NiffYNifle~ffY-, r-Taie"Ni;Ms'Pecrai-, r--Onet"i"'L";fue--,

HOURS: 

I 1-10" Small II 1-16" Extra Large I I (9:00p.m. until closing) I lj£1 Toppmg I
695

I 2Topping Pizza II Two Toppings I I 1-14" Large I I I 
with 1can of Coke
Frilay &Saturday 11 :00 am -3:00am. 

I 
II $950... I I 1Topping Pizza I I 7i v 14" L~rge I 
I II I I $ I I ,f:e Toppmu I 
SiRlay Noon -1:Ill am. 

I II I I 5 9~ I I \1) 1P~ I 
._. _______...... _______......_______ .._ ______ _
I Add1tiooal TllfJ/JIIIUS 95c each. Not V/Jiid With 11111 ot!JBr CDUpDil. I I Additional Top,.lltJS $125 each. Not VIJiid With.,, otluir CDIJIHlll. I I Additional TDpfJ/IItJS 95c each. Not rliid With 8/lf other -.J I A111itiDna1 TIIPfllnlls 95c each. Not rlllid with lilY--.J 

page 4 The Observer • NEWS Monday, February 6, 1995 
First heavy snow hits northeast U.S. 
By DOINA CHIACU 

der people from getting to 
Associated Press 

where they want to go."


r1 
~ 

NEW YORK 
Guess again. 

Friday's winter storm
Winter came out of hiberna­
In New York, La Guardia and 
blanketed the Midwest and
tion Saturday with a blizzard, 
Kennedy Airports were closed
Northeast with snow. Minor
dropping a thick layer of snow 
most of Saturday morning and
accidents were reported
from West Virginia to New 
no planes were taking off at
throughout the regions.
England. 

New Jersey's Newark
New York's La Guardia and 
"This is impossible to keep up Kennedy airports were .• 
International Airport, stranding 
with," said Pat Rodgers of the closed Saturday morning. · · thousands of people. Delays Transportation Department in Planes were delayed at were expected through Sunday. 
New Jersey's Newark
Connecticut, where 2 to 3 inch­Driving was treacherous
International Airport.
es of snow fell an hour, leaving throughout the East as snow a foot in Milford and 11 inches turned to sleet and freezing in New Canaan. rain in some areas and high 
About 9,000 customers in the winds decreased visibility else­state were without power by where. late afternoon. At least two traffic deaths ­
• 6-11"
The East's first major storm one each in Massachusetts and of the season started Friday in .) 1-2" New Hampshire -were the Midwest and gained blamed on the weather. strength as it moved east and Source: Accu-Weather, Inc. AP The Massachusetts Turnpike 
pounded the Middle Atlantic inches fell in Baltimore County, -a sharp contrast to last year, was closed to propane trucks 
States overnight with heavy Md., and up to 14 in the when about 17 storms dropped and tandem trailers. Numerous snow, winds up to 40 mph and Philadelphia suburbs. Ten inch­50-plus inches of snow. minor accidents and three low wind chills. es covered the West Virginia "It's about time!" said rollovers were reported, state It dumped 4 inches of snow in mountains and up to 16 fell in Deborah Fedelli, riding a com­police said. There were no 
much of Indiana and Illinois be­central New Jersey. muter train from Connecticut to immediate of serious injuries. fore blanketing the nation's The storm arrived during a her job at Macy's in New York In New York City, 3,000 sani­capital with 6 inches. Eleven so-far mild winter in the East City. "I just hope it doesn't bin-tation workers using 1,300 
plows and 350 salt-and-sand
by the Provost's Office that spreaders were out, Sanitation
classroom space was also in
Office Debate 
Department spokesman Lucianshortage, and thus halted any Chalfen said. 
conversions of room in continued from page 1
continued from page 1 Things were different for
O'Shaughnessy. 

those who didn't have to work be harsh. Associate Provost and Univer­juniors. 
against weather, however. 
"By taking away this office sity Vice President Roger Candidates will accept ques­"I love the snow! I can hardly
Schmitz, who is responsible for tions from the audience, and
space, TA's will not have any­wait to get home and make a
facility designation, was out of all students are invited and
where to proctor make-up tests snowman," 63-year-old Louise or talk to students about town and unavailable for com­encouraged to attend. 
Clark said as she walked downment.
papers," he said, noting that 
a Princeton, N.J., street drink­students of large classes usually "This is contradictory to the Elections will be held this ing a cup of coffee. 
University's mission and how it Wednesday and voting will
try to see their T A for help 
Clark said she hiked 12
advertises itself," Davenport take place in students' respec­
before going to the professor. 
blocks in 16 inches of snow He said he was unaware of said. He stated that graduate tive dorms. 
from her house to the super­any space in O'Shaughnessy students didn't care about If a run-off is necessary, it market in her brand new snow Hall being made available to being moved out of that partic­will be on Friday. 
boots. 

graduate students, stating that ular space, but did object to not One pair of candidates must Along the way she saw "quitehe was under the impression having anywhere else to go and receive 50 percent of the vote a few sour-looking men shovel­that a finding had been made an uncertain future. in order to win the election. 
ing." 

Minnesotan wins pinball tournament 
By RICH HOLLENBERG 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Amid a constant zing, pop and whir, a 25-year-old the­ater manager with icy concen­tration flicked the best flipper Sunday to win the title of "world's greatest pinball play­er." 
Men, women and children ages 11 to 48 competed at the fifth annual world champi­onships organized by the Professional and Amateur Pinball Association. 
When it was over, Paul Madison of Minneapolis had won the weekend contest that drew about 700 players. Playing on a "Dirty Harry" pin­ball machine emblazoned with a menacing image of Clint Eastwood, Madison racked up a score of 3.2 billion. 
As a crowd of 50 other play­ers whooped and cheered, Madison turned around and smiled. He took home $2,000 in prize money and a new pin­ball machine. 
''I'm ecstatic," said Madison, who has played pinball since age 5. "I just kept playing and playing. Everyone around you gets blocked out. You don't hear them." 
Last year's men's champion, 19-year-old Bowen Kerins, was knocked out in the quarterfi­nals. 
Despite the tension and sweat on some players' faces, Kerins said he was just "here to hang out and have fun." 


Thinking ofdoing ayearof service? How about doing it for alifetime? 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 631-6385 
MBNA America -the nation's second-largest lender through bank credit cards, with over 10,000 people serving over 13 million customers -is seeking candidates for its highly selective Management Development Program. Intensive, diverse, and designed to maximize the future success of each participant, the program is an ideal entree into a leadership position with a dynamic and innovative financial 
institution. Please attend our presentation and reception to learn more about MBNA and The Management Development Program: 
Morris Inn, Alumni Room Tuesday, February 7 6:30pm 
MBNP\5 Notre Dame alumni look forward to meeting you. 
AtBN~ 
AMERICA'" 

400 Christiana Road Newark, DE 19713 
MBNA America 1S an Equal Employmem Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer 
MBNN' and MBNA Amenca11 are federally registered service marks of MBNA Amenca Bank. N.A. 
01995 MBNAAmenca Bank. N.A. CLAD 1-200-95 
---------------------~-----------------------------------­
Monday, February 6, 1995 The Observer • WASHINGTON NEWS page 5 



Foster's nomination to face difficult hearings 
By RON FOURNIER 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Senate Hepublicans predicted trouble for President Clinton's surgeon general nominee Sun­day, and chastised the White House for not telling Congress sooner that the doctor per­formed abortions. 
"Will it be in some difficulty? Yes," Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole said, when asked about the nomination of Dr. Henry Foster Jr., 61. 
"I do think it is in serious trouble," Sen. Trent Lott, R­Miss., said in a separate inter­view. 
Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, said on CNN's "Late Edition" that the nomination is in trou­ble "to a degree, but I don't think it's fair to judge him until he has a chance to testify, and I suspect that he'll come off pret­ty well." 
The Tennessee gynecologist­obstetrician came to Clinton's attention through a teen-age pregnancy program he founded in !'\ashville's housing develop­ments. 
It urges teen-agers to delay sexual activity by building their self-esteem, and does not pro­vide abortions. 
After Foster's selection was announced last week, the White !louse revealed that he performed fewer than a dozen hospital abortions, mostly to save the mother's life or in cases of rape or incest. An unspecified number apparently were elective abortions. 
White House spokeswoman Dawn Alexander said Sunday that Clinton knew about the abortions before the nomina­tion and "thinks Doctor Foster's enormously impressive history will stand him well in the confirmation process." 
Rep. Nita Lowey, D-N.Y., is­sued a statement in support of Foster, denouncing suggestions that performing abortions should disqualify him. "The majority of Americans who are pro-choice will not allow a nar­row band of extremist special interest groups to derail this nomination," she said. 
Despite White House efforts to focus on the 10,000 babies he delivered and his teen-age pregnancy program. conserva­tives and anti-abortion groups are mounting an aggressive campaign against Foster. 
Dole, who hopes to shore up support from conservatives in his own party for the 1996 presidential race, said on NBC's "Meet the Press" that he had not decided whether to oppose the nomination, which must be confirmed by the Senate. 
''I'm not certain," he said. "I don't like what I hear, what I read." 




Dole: Kemp, Powell top list 
Senator to make candidacy official in April 
ByJIM ABRAMS Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Bob Dole said Sunday he "has been tested in a lot of ways," giving him a sound background for his upcoming run for president. He men­tioned several possible running mates, including Jack Kemp, Colin Powell and governors from California and several other states. 
The Kansas Republican said he will formally announce his candidacy in April, around the 50th anniversary of one of his most severe tests, a World War II injury. 
Dole will be 73 years old in 1996, making him older than any president at the start of his first term if he is elected. In light of that, he was asked on NBC's "Meet the Press," whether he would commit to only serve one term as presi­dent. 

"Well, I must say that's an option that people have talked about," he said. "But ... we have not made a decision. I assume we will make that deci­sion before we announce so the American people will know it. 
"Some people might like it," he mused. "Some might say, 'Well, you're a lame duck on day one.' There have been a lot of one-term presidents the past few years, the past two decades or so. But it's a judgment we haven't made." 
Dole sought to identify him­self with the ideas of Kemp, the conservative who says Republicans should create eco­nomic opportunities and reach out more to minorities. 
There has been speculation that Dole could name his selec­tion for vice president when he announces his candidacy, and Dole was asked whether he would consider tapping Kemp, who recently bowed out of the presidential race. 
Dole said he would consider Kemp and went on to mention former Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Colin Powell and Gov. Pete Wilson of California. 

"You know, it's not really a short list," he said. "It includes a number of people. We have a number of outstanding gover­nors: Governor (George) Voinovich (of Ohio). Tommy Thompson (of Wisconsin), who is thinking about running, Jim Edgar (of Illinois), Bill Weld (of Massachusetts), Governor (Christine) Whitman (of New Jersey). You've got this whole list of people that I think would be outstanding running mates, and some may run for presi­dent." 
Dole had this exchange with columnist Robert Novak: 
Novak: "You include General Powell in that list, though? Colin Powell?" 
Dole: "Oh, yes. I had a good visit with him two or three weeks ago. We didn't talk about this specific thing, but. ... 
Novak: "Did he say he was a Republican?" 

Dole, laughing: "No, but he ­the thing that encouraged me -he did know that polling was going on in America and his name was in the polling.... In fact, he knew he was running ahead of me." 
During the television appear­ance, Dole spoke of the "very high risk" of having a first lady who is actively involved in poli­cy-making, as Hillary Rodham Clinton has been. 

.. THE SOUTH BEND SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA 
~ ~ and (. .ll MAESTRO TSUNG ~~nr .. ; .
~ ')> J., • 


}> Be Our Valentir 
­" A Broadway Extn 1ganza! 
featuring 
Katherine Terrell, Lewis Dahle von Schlanbusch 4 and the Camerata Singers 
~ ~ ~. Return Engagement! 
.l ' Saturday, February 11, 1995 ¥ ., ~ ¥ 8:00p.m. • Morris Civic Auditorium i pf*f ~ 

.. For Tickets ($11.00 -$26.00) taA Call (219) 235-9190 ...,.. 
For Special Group Rates Call (219) 232-6343 
Student and Senior Discounts Available 
He said his wife, Elizabeth Hanford Dole, who has served as secretary of Labor and of Transportation, would want to continue in public service but would do "more traditional first lady efforts." She now heads the Red Cross. 
At least three other promi­nent Republicans are expected to announce their presidential candidacies over the next few months -Sen. Phil Gramm of Texas, former Vice President 
Dan  Quayle  and  former  
Tennessee  Gov.  Lamar  
Alexander.  

Dole said he would formally announce his presidential bid around April 14, the 50th an­niversary of receiving a serious wound while fighting with U.S. forces in Italy. 
Asked if this was a way of emphasizing how he differs from President Clinton, who has been attacked for avoiding military service in Vietnam, Dole said, "Some people might suggest that." 
But he said he picked the date "because I thought it was a fairly important experience in my lifetime, and it's not aimed at anyone else." 
He said voters would turn to him if they are "looking for someone with experience, someone who has been tested in a lot of ways and somebody who gets up every morning and knows that people are going to have difficulties." 
Referring to his partially paralyzed arm from the war wound, he noted that he has difficulties dressing, making him sensitive to people's con­cerns. 
Dole was the Republican vice presidential nominee during Gerald Ford's unsuccessful race against Jimmy Carter in 1976, and he unsuccessfully sought the Republican presidential nominations in 1980 and 1988. 
He said he had learned from the mistakes of his past cam­paigns, when he gained a repu­tation for sharp attacks on his opponents. 
''I'm at sort of peace with my­self. I know what I want to do," he said. 



ROSES 
2495 Dozen Delivered 
Special Price limitf'llto pre-order 
al~ooo 
Valentine Flower Arrangements starting at $4"'! 
MATERNOWSKI'S 

272-0970~ 


~OBSERVER 
is now accepting applications for 
Applicants should ~~i~~~~is~~!~~~fonable in a man­
agement position. A basic understanding of newspaper production and experience with the Macintosh system is helpful. Any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student is encouraged to apply. 
Business Manager 
Any sophomore or junior business major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's interested in valu­able work experience is encouraged to apply. Applicants should have strong interpersonal and organizational skills, and a basic understanding ofaccounting principles. 
Please submit a 3 page personal statement ofintent and a resume to john Lucas by Wednesday, February 8 at 5:00p.m. For questions about the positions call Managing Editor john Lucas at 631-4 541 or Business Manager joe Riley at 631-5313. 
22"d Annual Summer ProgramND-SMC Students 
London Rome May 24-June 23 June 18-July 17 
Courses offered in 
Music, Education, Business & Economics, History, Italian 
Informational & Organizational Meeting February 6, 6:30 p.m., Carroll Hall SMC 
Student-Faculty Pizza Social 
Past student and faculty participants will be present. 
For information, call Prof. Black 284-4460 or 272-3726 

page 6 The Observer· WASHINGTON NEWS Monday, February 6, 1995 
U.S., China impose tariffs 
By JEANNINE A VERSA 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
A standoff between the United States and China esca­lated into a trade war Saturday, with each country ordering stiff tariffs that will double the cost of some im­ports. 
While the tariffs increased tensions between the two governments, they were likely to have little impact on U.S. consumers because the goods that will carry higher prices from China are readily avail­able from other sources, offi­cials said. 
The United States moved first, announcing 100 percent tariffs on $1.08 billion worth of Chinese products. The move, the nation's largest retaliatory tariff, covers 35 categories of goods ranging from scarves to cellular telephones. 
"We cannot stand by while the interests of our fastest­growing, most competitive industries are sacrificed in China," U.S. Trade Representative Mickey Kantor said at a morning briefing. 
Chinese officials retaliated quickly, saying it would raise tariffs 100 percent on a variety of U.S. products, including video games, compact discs, cigarettes and alcohol. 
China's official news agency, Xinhua, said the country felt both "great regret ... and strong resentment" of the U.S. move. 
The actions came after 20 months' of negotiations between the governments failed to resolve a dispute over the theft of American computer programs, movies, music and trademarks. 
The tariffs on both sides go into effect at 12:01 a.m. on Feb. 26. 
The U.S. tariffs will effectively cause companies to stop ship­ping products into the United States, which accounts for 40 percent of China's overseas sales. 
American negotiators left Beijing a week ago, after talks broke down and Chinese offi­cials failed to respond to Kantor's request that one last effort be made to resolve the issue before Saturday's dead­line. 
China has strong copyright and patent laws but doesn't enforce them, Kantor said. He noted some small-scale raids of 

"One ofthe best films ofthe year" New York Tunes 
"A movie ofbold and startli!J;g originality" Newsweek 
"Chilling, totally unpredi~table" San Francisco Chronicle 
"As shocking, in its way, as anything Lynch, Greenway or Almodovar have come up with. Superbly crafted, splendidly acted. Baxter offers caustic wit and disturbing insight. .. " Seattle Tunes 
United States and China trade uuar 
The United States and China, two of the world's biggest trading partners, began a trade war Saturday, with each country ordering stiff tariffs that will double the cost of some imports. 

United States 
Negotiations between the two countries failed to resolve a dispute over the theft of American computer programs, movies, music, and trademarks. The United States said that trade sanctions were necessary and made the first move. 
Effective date• 
February 28, 1995 
100% tariffs totaling $1.08 billion wortll or Cblnese goods. 35 categories lnclutllnea 
ePiastlc articles 
(picture frames, baseball 
card holders) 
eAnswerlng machines and cellular telephones 
es~rting goods
(fishing rods, gymnastics
equipment, surf boards) 
eWooden articles 
(picture frames, ornaments, 
jewelry boxes) 
eBicycles 
The tariffs are not likely to have an impact on U.S. consumers because the Chinese goods that will carry higher prices are ~~Oidily available from other sources: , 
Source: AP research 
street dealers, but contended the Chinese have failed to go after the biggest offenders. 
Specifically, the United States wants China to shut down 29 factories in southern China that are producing more than 70 million pirated compact disks, laser discs and CO-Roms annu­ally. 
Officials from the motion pic­ture, computer software and music industries praised the trade sanctions. 
The $1.08 billion list was drawn from an initial list of $2.8 billion in Chinese goods that was published a month ago. 
Among the hardest hit prod­ucts are plastic products, cellu­lar phones, answering machines, sporting goods and some bicycles. 
Plastics, ranging from picture 
China 
China has taken retaliatory measures, charging the United States with making unreasonable demands, meddling in its judicial affairs, and trying to exert unfair pressure. 
No specific date or 
dollar value 100% tariffs on u.s. goods Including; 
e U.S. game players eGamecards ecassette tapes ecompact discs 
• Cigarettes e Alcoholic beverages ecosmetics eRollfllm ecomputer-programmed 
switchboards 
In addition to the tariff on U.S. goods, China will suspend negotiations for U.S. auto companies seeking to set up joint-venture projects, withdraw approval for U.S. companies and their subsidiaries to set up holding companies and suspend approval for U.S. audio-visual manufacturers to open branch offices. 
AP/C. Sanderson 
frames to baseball card hold­ers, account for $465 million of Chinese goods that come to the 
u.s. 
Answering machines and cellular phones are valued at $108 million, sporting goods, $78 million, wooden products, $70 million, and bicycles, $65 million. 
Something Special is Happening at Equis 
Equls, a nadonal commercial real estate services firm, is searching for Notre Dame's most dynamic and aggressive candidates to become Equis brokers. 
All interested students are invited to attend our informal presentation on: Thursday, February 23 Foster Room La Fortune Student Center 6:00PM 
Our on-campus recruiting date Is Friday, February 24. Students interested in meeting with us should submit their resume to Career and Placement Services for review or call ... 




Clinton's readies budget, but GOP to cut further 
By ALAN FRAM 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
President Clinton's $1.61 tril­lion budget for next year trims the deficit, compresses 271 programs into a handful and kills 130 others. Still, his Republican nemeses in Congress say they'll do more. 
The Republicans, running Congress for the first time in 40 years, say they won't ignore Clinton's blueprint, and will probably use some of his ideas. But they are betting that voters want a far stronger push to eliminate the government's chronic red ink and much deeper spending slashes, including bigger reductions in programs that help the poor. 
"If this (Clinton's budget) was Evel Knievel trying to fly over the Snake Canyon, he'd fly over the edge of the cliff and he might fly a little while, but he wouldn't make it to the ledge on the other side," said House Budget Committee Chairman John Kasich, R-Ohio. 
But a senior White House official who briefed reporters on the budget Saturday scoffed at GOP claims that they would do more. 
"To say we're Republicans Lite assumes Republicans actu­ally have a plan that is Republicans Heavy," said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity. "We haven't seen it." 
The president's budget, to be released Monday, reduces spending by $144 billion over the next five years by chopping defense, merging 271 public health, environmental and training programs into 27, and making other cuts. 
Only $28.7 billion of the sav­ings come from benefit pro­grams, which are the largest, fastest growing portion of the budget. 
The $144 billion in savings pays for $63 billion worth of tax cuts for middle-income families and others, and $81 billion worth of deficit reduc­tion. 
It contains extra money for the Border Patrol, technologi­cal research and his Americorps volunteer service program, as well as for envi­ronment and anti-crime efforts. 
In all, it adds $9.6 billion for next year to programs Clinton believes will help the economy, including Head Start, nutrition programs for poor women and children, and his Goals 2000 effort to improve schools, the White House official said. 
"Investment, especially in education, is very important to future living standards," said the official. 
Playing to the public mood, the outline emphasizes cuts and efficiency. It restructures the departments of Transportation, Energy and Housing and Urban Development, the General Ser­vices Administration and the Office of Personnel Management, pares $10 billion from this year's $271 billion military budget, and gradually trims spending for agriculture and space. 
"Our agenda is working," Clinton says in his introductory message to the document. 
"By cutting the deficit, invest­ing in our people and opening world markets, we have begun to lay the foundation for a strong economy for years to come." 
Clinton's budget contains no new tax increases. Nor does it contain his still evolving plan to revamp the welfare system, which is likely to be less sweep­ing than proposals from con­gressional Republicans and be­come a major fight on Capitol Hill. 

Monday, February 6, 1995 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page? 

Shooting claims twelve in Sunni, Shiite outburst 
By ZAHID HUSSAIN 
Associated Press 
KARACIII, Pakistan 
At least 12 people were killed in a drive-by shooting on a main road Sunday, the latest outburst in a bitter feud between Sunni and Shiite Muslims. 
Most of the victims were Sun­nis, gunned down in central Karachi not far from where 12 people, most of them Shiites, were shot dead Saturday night, police said. 
AP 
The assailants opened fire was among the dead, police Sunday with automatic said. weapons on a stall set up by The gunmen fled the scene. llarakat-ui-Ansar, a group of The attack clouded what was Sunni religious students. At supposed to be a peaceful day least 13 people were wounded. of protest. 
The group hasn't been in­Prime Minister Benazir volved in previous sectarian Bhutto had called a nationwide violence, and it appeared the strike Sunday to show solidari­gunmen were simply targeting ty with Muslims seeking to Sunnis who had congregated in secede from India in the disput­the area. A 12-year-old boy ed Himalayan state of Kashmir. 



Talks falter at border fight 
By LYNN MONAHAN 
Associated Press 
LIMA, Peru 
New fighting was reported between Peruvian and Ecuadorean troops along their disputed jungle border Sunday as cease-fire talks in Brazil broke up without a truce. 
Ecuador charged that Peruvian fighters attacked its posts at the headwaters of the Cenepa River, where the two countries have been fighting on and off for 10 days-the latest flare-up in a dispute that dates to 1941. 
President Alberto Fujimori, who visited the border region Sunday, said Peruvian troops had surrounded the base of Ti­huinza and were advancing on the post. 
He also said 22 Peruvian sol­diers had been killed in fighting with Ecuador -twice the num­ber previously given by Peru. Ecuador says eight of its sol­diers have died and two are missing and presumed dead since fighting erupted Jan. 26. 
The unmarked 50-mile por­tion of the border runs through an area which may contain gold, uranium and oil. 
Ecuador's president, Sixto 
to present his nation's case. 
Delegates from those coun­tries and the United States ended five days of cease-fire talks in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, saying Ecuador had asked for more time to study their pro­posals. 
"I prefer not to think of the talks as a failure but rather as a preparation for more com­plete understanding and what we all hope will be a cease-fire and a permanent peace," said Sebastiao de Rego Barros, Brazil's acting foreign minister and chairman of the talks. 
Both Peru and Ecuador had accepted an observer mission, the mediators said in a state­ment. 
But sources in Rio said Peru had agreed to a demilitarized zone nearly five miles wide, while Ecuador wanted a half­mile zone. Ecuador also wanted to keep its military posts in the disputed area. The sources spoke on condition of anonymi­ty. 
Barros said efforts for a truce would continue. 
As the talks broke up, Ecuador claimed Peruvian jun­gle troops attacked four more of its posts in the disputed warfare in its efforts to dislodge Ecuadorean forces. 
Fujimori said his forces had "taken the hills that overlook the outpost" of Tihuinza. "Let's hope by now it (the outpost) has been taken by our army," he said during a stopover on his return to Lima. 
Ecuadorean officials said they had repelled an attack on the same base. which both say is in their territory. They also claimed Peru was using artillery helicopters to attack other posts. 
The fighting is taking place in rugged, jungle-covered moun­tains called the Cordillera del Condor, around 530 miles north of Lima and 220 miles southeast of the Ecuadorean capital of Quito. 
Peru sent soldiers experi­enced in fighting Maoist guer­rillas to the disputed region last week. 
Reporters who have seen the area say the Ecuadoreans are dug into the mountaintops and have honeycombed the terrain with tunnels. 
Peru contends the entire 1 ,000-mile border was estab­lished in a 1942 treaty that fol­lowed a 1941 war Ecuador lost. Ecuador declared the agree­ment null in 1960, before the border was fully marked. Each side claims the other started the latest fighting. 
HURRY! 
SPACE IS UMITEDI 

llta/rd.ldtsf!JIJIXi!J*>-m~~m~~mml~­~bostdoo~~·••nd-. 
Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearborn, 2nd Aoor Chicago, IL 60610 


311•951•0585 
Call for availability, prices, and other Spring Break destinations. 
"THE FINEST IN OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING" 
•FOUR AND FIVE BEDROOM TOWNHOMES ·TWO BATHROOMS ·SECURITY SYSTEMS ·KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE 
DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR, AND RANGE ·WASHER AND DRYER IN EACH UNIT ·GAS HEAT ·CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING ·PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT ·24-IIOUR MAINTENANCE ·ONE MILE FROM THE NOTRE DAME 
CAMPUS 
NOW LEASING FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 


232-8256 
Duran-Ballen, left for Chile, Ar­stretch of dense jungle. It gentina and Brazil on Sunday accused Peru of using guerrilla 
$1 admission (FREE with this coupon) 

THE FRENCH FILM 
All movies begin at 7p.m. in Cushing Auditorium 
Betty Blue 
"An irrestible "Betty Blue Sunday, February 5 

Baxter 
Monday, February 6 
Tuesday, February 7 

Sugar Cane Alley The .film 
Wednesday, February 8 

yfriends & Girlfriends 
Thursday, February 9 Set in the satellite city of Girlfrnruls is one of the in Rohmer's series ofCo 

Seniors! Seniors! 
Looking for a place to stay during: (~Junior Parents Weekend? 
Want to go to the Pacers-Knicks game 
(~ Graduation Weekend? (~ April Stud. Activity Events? 
on Feb. 8? 
(~Home Football Games? Alumni Renting Out Historic Home 
Buy your tickets at the LaFortune information desk. 
For NO Special Events 

-Bus leaves at 3:15pm at the the CCE. 
•Close 
to Campus (Just 2 miles Away!) 

•Safe 
Neighborhood



-Cost for ticket and transportation 
•Competitive 
Rates 

•Fully 
Equiped Kitchen 

•University 
Club access


$15.00. 
•Summit 
Club access 

•5 
private suites w/ individual baths 

•Accomodates 
up to 14


Call 631-5225 for more information. 
Available to Show by Appointment Call Helenfor More Information@ 219 287-8163 


page 8 The Observer • MEXICO NEWS Monday, February 6, 1995 
As peso falls, Mexican companies raise exports 

U.S. firms brace for worst 
By JEFFREY HOFFMAN high trade deficit, and could fall Associated Press into a recession. NEW YORK Moreover, even if the peso 
Despite President Clinton's stabilizes at current exchange aid package to Mexico, U.S. rates, imported goods and ser­companies are bracing for a vices will cost Mexicans far 

~'
year of plunging sales and more than last year, even as 
.The North American 
Free Trade Agree{j\ent and
uncertainty over investments they struggle with stagnant or 
there. falling incomes and higher 
fueled aboom in Sales of U.$;
The announcement of nearly inflation. 
products south of the border. But the 
$50 billion in credits from the The WEFA group, an eco­
financial crisis in Mexico, which is United States and international nomic research firm in Bala 
expected to slash growth and leave Mexicans with thinner wallets, wiD
lending agencies sparked Cynwyd. Pa., says U.S. exports 
mean at least a temporary downturn
strong rallies last week in the to Mexico could fall to $27.7 
in American exports.
Mexican stock and bond mar­billion in 1995, 50 percent 
U.S. exports to Mexico
kets as investors anticipated an lower than had been projected 
(billions of dollars)
end to the crisis touched off by before the peso's plunge. That 
$50 ·······-·~---..·---·
the Dec. 20 devaluation of the could knock up to one-half a 
45 ......................"'"'"""""'""'"""""'" 
peso. percentage point off America's 
40 .......................,...... 
Signs of rising confidence economic growth this year. the helped the peso recover from group says. 
~-~······· :1..~ 
......,..
its six-week plunge. The sharpest declines are 
20 ..... ..... It took 5.2 pesos to buy $1 expected in consumer products, Friday, stronger than its 6.3-notably autos, although sales of 
1~ ~= -~~ 
per-dollar nadir but 34 percent industrial goods also will fall. 
~ 19~ 93
91·········· 92 ······ . 94 ..• 95*
weaker than pre-devaluation Mexican manufacturers buy 70 
"Estimate
levels. percent of their materials from 
Sources: Commerce Department, WEFA Group
For American companies with the United States. 
big investments and sales in Still, that doesn't mean 
Mexico the news came as a Those manufacturing in Mexico 
American businesses are about 
will find their goods more com­relief -but much as one wel­to yank carefully planted stakes petitive on export markets. 
comes the end of a war. in Mexico and relinquish what And if the Mexican govern­Surveying the damage, remains a promising market. 
ment can quickly stabilize itsthey're anticipating a difficult "The long-term picture for economy and avoid a surge in1995 that will contrast marked­Mexico remains bright," said inflation and wages, makers ofly to 1994, when U.S. exports to David P. Hirschmann, director 
labor-intensive goods, like
Mexico surged to an estimated of Latin American affairs at the clothing, should enjoy a sharp$50 billion -a record -with U.S. Chamber of Commerce in reduction in their biggest single 
the implementation of the Washington. 
cost.
North American Free Trade "Five years from now this 
"For the U.S. textile industry,Agreement. will be seen as a jolt in the it's going to be a renaissance,"Sales of U.S. goods ranging road. That's what companies said Charles Hayes, chief exec­from Ford cars to Marlboro cig­are basing their plans on." 
utive officer of Guilford Mills
arettes are projected to drop The peso's depreciation 
Inc., a Greensboro, N.C.-based
sharply, and that could mean could, in fact, benefit some fabric producer with garmentfewer export-linked U.S. jobs. firms. 
operations in Mexico. 
Mexico was one of America's The same exchange-rate "Making garments in Mexicobiggest customers last year as dynamic that drives up the cost 
is going to be even cheaper.
it hinged on imports. Now it of imports in Mexico brings 
There will be a stampede offaces a period of prolonged down the dollar cost of 
companies to Mexico," he said. 
belt-tightening to shrink its Mexican-produced goods. 
Ir---------------------------------------,I 
I  I  
Il  HOW TO GET YOUR JOLLIES  Il  
Il  AT COLLEGE 24 HOURS A DAY.  Il  
:  I  
I  Open a tab at a diner.  
Belgian waffles and cheese fries with gravy  
are delicious, rega'rdless of the hour.  
Visit a local court of law. Plenty of seating, unique conversation and* 
drama that improves the later it gets.  
Be the gym night janitor.  
Work out at your leisure and never wait  
in line for lat pulldowns or the erg.  
Get a Citibank Classic card. For your peace of mind, operators are on* 
call 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.  

By SUSAN HIGHTOWER 
Associated Press 

DALLAS Jose Hurtado is looking like the smartest guy in town. 
As an importer of Mexican goods, the company Hurtado heads could be one of the few in Texas helped by the devalu­ation of the peso. All the goods he buys in Mexico with dollars have suddenly become much cheaper. 
Hurtado is president of the 
U.S. subsidiary of Jalisco Trading Corp., formed about a year ago. 
In October, the company mailed 700,000 copies of its new mail-order catalog, which features silver jewelry, dinner and glassware patterned in rich cobalt blue, wood furni­ture and leather goods. Jalisco also is producing a line of denim clothing. 
Since the peso plummet began Dec. 20, Hurtado says Mexican companies have turned from reluctance to eagerness to market their wares north of the border. 
"Mexico sadly has never been an exporting country. Our mentality has always been to import," he said. 
The peso crisis, however, has helped Mexican companies realize the value of exporting and seeking U.S. investment to offset their dollar debt, Hurtado said. 
"It's been good to go to my country and try to tell these guys, 'Come on, now is the time to do it,"' Hurtado said. 
Unlike Jalisco's experience, the peso plummet is hurting many companies in Texas, and the state's economy. 
A nearly $50 billion aid pack­age unveiled by President Clin­ton last week has won praise from business leaders here. But even if the situation stabi­lizes quickly. the effect on Texas this year already is expected to be tough. 
Ray Perryman, a Waco consultant and economist at Southern Methodist University's Cox School of Business, expects the growth of Texas exports to Mexico this year to fall from $4 billion to $1.5 billion, or from 20 percent growth to 7.5 percent. Texas' $20 billion in annual exports to Mexico make up 40 percent of its $50 billion total. 
Perryman expects the export decline will cost the state an estimated 30,000 jobs. 
One company seeing immedi­ate problems from the peso fall is chicken producer Pilgrim's Pride Corp. of Pittsburg. 
Pilgrim's Pride took a $4.3 million charge against earnings linked to the devaluation in its first fiscal quarter, and profits fell to $556,000 from $8.4 mil­lion a year earlier. 
Pilgrim's Pride has been hit because it must import grain from the United States to fuel its Mexican chicken operation. In addition, lower buying power means less demand from Mexican consumers. 
The company also is in the midst of a 40 percent expan­sion of its Mexican operations that will increase its production in that country to about 25 per­cent of its total. 

© 1995 C1tibank (South Dakota). NA 
-------~~ 

____..._~-----------------~~--------------~---~ 
CAMPUSES 
Monday, February 6, 1995 page 9 
Penn State works to send underprivileged to college 
By MARCY DINIUS Campuses Editor 
Having received $1.1 million in nationally-competitive fund­ing, the Talent Search Program at Pennsylvania State University will be able to con­tinue its work in seven of the poorest school districts in the state for four additional years. 
The program works to pro­vide students in grades 6-12 with information and assis­tance with information about financial aid and academics toward enrolling in college. 
Counselors work with students from low-income families that could possibly become the first in their families to attend col­lege. 
Assistant dean for under­graduate education Howard Wray stated that it is estimated that "only four percent of those from families with incomes in the lowest fourth of the nation's income will earn a bachelor's degree by age 24, compared to 76 percent of those with family income in the top fourth." 
Because of this, the program has targeted schools where 
Service learning stressed at Central Michigan 
By KATHY HAUSMANN Campuses Assistant Editor 
A growing focus on "service learning" has resulted in an in­crease of Central Michigan University students participat­ing in community service pro­jects that are related to their academic programs. 
The emphasis on community service began when CMU be­came a member of the Michigan Campus Compact, a group of state public and pri· vate colleges and universities that encourage students to par· ticipate in community service and internship experiences. 
A grant awarded from the Michigan Campus Compact has helped to increase awareness of service learning and created a Serviee Learning Center for Excellence at CMU. 
The compact, through the support from the W.K. Kellog Foundation, would provide funds for the projects, includ­ing musical programs for resi­dents of senior citizen centers and nursing homes, substance abuse presentations in area schools, and an after-school science program for elemen· tary school children. 
According to Claudia Douglass, a member of the CMU biology faculty and CMU's service learning coordinator, students of all ages should be required to participate in com­munity or school service pro· jects that emphasize and con­nect both service and learning. 
"Involvement in community service learning prepares stu­dents for their future civic roles and responsibilities," Douglass said. She also believes that community service can fre­quently do more than any sin­gle course alone to make social responsibility a central part of a student's life. 
"Our goal is for community service to become an important part of the campus learning experience for all CMU stu­dents," Douglass states. "We anticipate that more than 600 CMU students will participate in service learning projects benefitting several thousand community persons." 
CMU students who are begin­ning their student teaching ro­tations are incorporating their service learning projects into their new classrooms as well. Thomas Kromer, a supervisor of student teachers and a member of the teacher educa­tion faculty at CMU, tells stu­dent teachers to "identify a problem in the community and tie their kids' learning to solv­ing that problem." 
Kromer said that service learning not only connects young people to their commu­nities, placing them in chal­lenging situations with real problems or needs, but it also "makes classroom study rele­vant. 
Service learning gives stu­dents a feeling of satisfaction because they see themselves as being able to make a positive impact in their world. It is a mean of educating our students to their full potential and instilling in them the ideal of what constitutes being a good 
citizen." 
dropout rates are extremely high, where nearly 90 percent or more of all students do not complete school. 
Previously, state budget cut­backs have caused the reduc­tion or elimination of other dropout prevention programs. Yet the Penn State program has received adequate funding to allow it to continue. 
"The Talent Search Program seeks to intervene as early as possible. It provides informa­tion and outreach services to help middle and high school students stay in school and 
CU-Denver offers 3-year degree 
By MARCY DINIUS Campuses Editor 
As many students have come to accept the growing difficulty of obtaining a college degree in the traditional four years necessary to complete college and major requirements, the University of Colorado, Denver is presenting students with a new option of the three-year degree. 
In a new program that began this academic year, stu­dents in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences will be able to complete their baccalaure­ate requirements and receive their degree in only three years. 
This option is made possible by a cooperate effort between CU-Denver and local high schools which offers students the opportunity to complete their freshman year of college while they are still in high school. 
Students participating in the cooperative program will receive admission to CO­Denver with sophomore stand­ing and be able to save almost $3000 in tuition and fees that they would have had to pay as regular freshmen attending the university. 
University faculty involved in developing the program hope that with the college's direct involvement with area high­school students they will be able to encourage a greater di­versity of students by identify­ing and advising students as early as their freshman and sophomore years of high school. 
Budget cuts protested at William and Mary 
By EDWARD IMBUS Observer StafTWriter 
Over 700 William & Mary stu­dents assembled to protest pro­posed budget cuts to their uni­versity by Virginia lawmakers. 
"Virginia schools are unri­valed in quality in the country, but that reputation will only last as long as they are ade­quately funded," said third· year law student Clay Betchelor in an open letter to State Sen. Thomas Norment. "There is no better use of taxpayer dollars than Investment in education." 
The students met at the Uni­versity Center at William and Mary to write letters encourag­Ing the state legislature to re· ject the reduced funding and reinstate funding at their cur­rent levels. It was organized by the Virginia Student Council, a statewide group of student leaders formed last September to advocate higher learning. 
Sharon Edgar, another stu­dent, agreed, stating that her parents chose to live in Virginia because of their educational reputation: "I would be a Maryland resident today if it wasn't for the high quality of education in Virginia," she said. ''I'm planning to go to graduate school in Virginia, and I hope the state won't cut back any more." 
Many out-of-state students have suffered the brunt of tu­Ition hikes, laregely instituted since 1991 to help offset cuts In state funding. 
Ensuring that state represen­tatives hear this message loud­ly and consistently has been the focal point of the VSC's cam­paign against the governor's proposed budget. 
Under Gov. Allen's proposed budget, William and Mary stands to lose an additional $1.2 million in public funding in the coming fiscal yers. The finance committees of the Vir­ginina General Assembly are expected to reconcile their own versions of the sate budget by next week. If the governor's budget in approved without change, Virginia could drop to 45th in the nation in the amount of money spent per stu­dent on higher education. 
enroll in post-secondary educa­esteem, and to learn about tion," stated program director careers and the benefits of a Teresa Tassotti. college education. They also 
Last year, 1000 students help high-school students to received assistance from the choose college prep courses, program, with more than 700 improve their academic skills, returning from the previous and to complete the college year. application process. 
Counselors in the program offer information on career Thus far, the program has planning, applying to college, been highly successful, with 76 programs at community, tech­percent of all students going on nical, private, and state institu­to four-year schools. The pro­tions and also arrange campus gram hopes to increase this tours in addition to helping stu­percentage while working to dents prepare for SAT exams. add to the number of college­
For students in grades 6-8, educated people available in counselors work to build self-the Pennsylvania work force. 
CAMPUS BRIEFS 
Arizona State expands minority database 
The Hispanic Experts Database/Minority Experts Database, a national networking service for minority professionals housed at Arizona State University, has received a $400,000 grant from the 
U.S. Department of Energy. 
The database currently lists 2,600 mostly Hispanic profes­sionals In 1100 different fields, about half of them with doctor­ates. The grant will help expand the database to include African­Americans, Asian·Americans and Native Americans. 
The service helps universities, corporations, agencies and other organizations recruit top scholars and professionals for employ­ment as well as for board positions, consultancies, lecturing. per­forming and other opportunities. 
"For example, if an institution wants the names of minority cal­culus teachers west of the Mississippi, we can make available all of the relevant data within five minutes." said Melissa Goitia­Werner, database coordinator for outreach and development. 
For the past year the database has been a program of the Coalition to Increase Minority Degrees, a comprehensive minority educational and employment program operating out of the Hispanic Research Center at ASU. It was started by a consortium of six universities and agencies. 
Since the database is ac<~essible to participants on a 24-hour electronic bulletin board, it also can be used for networking on research, scholarship, creative activities and announcements. Goitia-Werner said the database also will post information on financial aid and schofarshlps for minority undergraduates. 
Disabled to receive Berkeley scholarships 
For the rtrst time, this summer two students with disabilities will receive all-expenses-paid grants to attend the University o California at Berkeley's prestigious Summer Institute for Public Policy and International Affairs thanks to an Innovative program by the Mitsubishi Electric America Foundation. 
·The summer institute. administered by the Woodrow Wilson Foundation, annually selects and prepares 30 outstanding stu­dents of color for graduate school degrees and for public sector careers at all levels of government. 
The 15-year-old program provides rigorous preparation in quantitative analysis, communications skills and policy analysis. It_ also offers Internship opportunities and financial support dur­~g graduate school. ........We believe that this program, by helping people with disabili· ties to have a greater voice in shaping public policy, will benefit not only Individual scholars, but also the millions of Americans with disabilities nationwide," said Rayna Aylward, the founda­tion's executive director. 
Program alumni currently are advancing in careers at the 'White House, Capitol Hill, state governments, mayor's offices and J)'9ll·Profit organizations across the country. 
Harvard museums fO unused 
Though Harvard University s museums are "among the most diverse and extensive of any university in the world," according to University President Neil Rudenstine, most students do not make use of the campus museums for anything other than schoolwork. 
As it stands, Harvard's museums are mostly set up for academ· ic use, and few work to draw casual visitors. 'iome students say that ifthey bad a better idea of what is available, they would visit the museums more often. Many, however, say they just don' have time to see exhibits, even on their own campus. 
Last year, people visited Harvard's three art museums 82,379 times, according to Cynthia Freedman of the mus('lums' public relations office. 
Of these visits to the Fogg. the Busch-Reisinger and the Sadder Museums. just 6200. less than eight percent, were by Harvard graduate and undergraduate students. Many students inter­viewed criticized the museums' outreach efforts. They rarely know what exhibits are showing, they say, because Harvard's museums do not poster. 
The art museums also offer the Friends program for students who want to maintain a connection with their activities. 
Curators also hope to utilize more popular campus advertising methods In an effort to expose a wider range of students to the vast resources of the museums and increase attendance for re$earch as well as for pleasure. 
>~from the Harvard Crimson 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoim Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ................. , .......... Sean Gallavan Photo Editor ....................... Scon Mendenhall Observer Marketing Direcror ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Elizabeth Regan Controller..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independem newspaper published by the studems of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the adminima­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­
. torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor. and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Noue Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
Monday, February 6, 1995 


• RIGHT OR WRONG? 
Speaking the truth to end abortion peacefully 
"Words kill," said the heading of a full­page Planned Parenthood ad in the Jan. 5 New York Times. The ad, in response to the killing of two abortion employees by John Salvi in Brookline, Mass., pinned responsibility on "leaders of the extreme religious right [who] are heed­lessly using a war of words to inspire killing. They call abortion providers 'baby killers.' They call hardworking, law-abiding citizens 'murderers and sin­ners.' They trivialize the Holocaust by 
Charles Rice 

equating it to abortion." The main target was New York's Cardinal O'Connor who, according to the ad, provided "the clear­est example" when he "issued a back­handed apology for the attackers by stating 'you cannot prevent killing by killing,' thereby labeling abortion providers as killers." 
The ad blamed the Church by constru­ing the call of Boston's Cardinal Law for a moratorium on pro-life protests as an "acknowledgement of his power over anti-choice protesters." But the ad then tipped its objective, to use the killings as a lever to close down all anti-abortion protests. "How many more murders will it take," it asked, "before we see a per­manent national moratorium?" 
The ad raises serious questions. Should abortion opponents cease their on-site protests? Should they stop describing abortion as killing murder? If one so describes abortion, does he incite the murder of abortionists? Or does he speak a truth that must be heard? 
For historical and technical reasons, abortion has not been defined in law as the crime of murder. However, without presuming to judge the subjective culpa­bility of any individual, every abortion, as the direct, intentional killing of a human being without justification, may fairly be described as murder in the moral sense. Thus Cardinal O'Connor, who called the Brookline murders "an act of madness" and "absolutely abom­inable," has denounced the attacks on abortionists on the ground that "we must fight murder without conforming to it, nor condoning it; it makes no Christian sense to try to justify murder to limit murder." 
Even Planned Parenthood acknowl­edged abortion as killing when it was promoting contraception in the 1960s. It sought to distinguish contraception from abortion and stated, in "Plan Your Children," a 1963 pamphlet, "An abor­tion kills the life of a baby after it has begun. It is dangerous to your life and health. It may make you sterile so that when you want a child, you cannot have it. Birth control merely postpones the beginning of life." Save this column. That may be the only time Planned Parenthood has ever told the truth on abortion. 
Over the past two years, FACE, the federal Freedom of Access to Clinic Entrances act, and other laws and injunctions have stifled peaceful protest at abortuaries. As this repression of legitimate speech continues, it is likely that more people will succumb to the delusion that murder can be a proper response to murder, with a widening range of potential victims. If one claims the "right" to kill abortionists, why would he not extend that "right" to include physicians who prescribe abor­tion pills, pharmacists who sell them, etc.? 
The root violence here is the legalized violence against the unborn. Over the past two decades, more than thirty mil­lion unborn children have been legally executed by surgical abortion, in addi­tion to uncounted millions killed by chemical and other early abortifacients. 
As Mother Theresa said at the 1994 National Prayer Breakfast, "the greatest destroyer of peace today is abortion, because it is a war against the child, a direct killing of the innocent child, mur­der by the mother herself. And if we accept that a mother can kill even her own child, how can we tell other people not to kill one another?" 
Some abortion opponents do advocate violence against abortionists. Murder is wrong and so is incitement to murder. But the few who so misuse speech are not the real targets of Planned Parenthood and the media guardians of the culture of death. Their targets are those who peacefully speak the truth in any forum. Abortion can remain entrenched as public policy only by redefining itself and its victims and by compelling the rest of us to acknowledge 
'Murder is an abomination, whether of an unborn child or of an abortionist.' 
its legitimacy. 
In his forthcoming book, Dehumanizing the Vulnerable, Prof. William Brennan of St. Louis University recounts the "semantics of oppression" that have often been used to dehuman­ize target groups so as to justify their oppression, including American Blacks, North American Indians, Jews in the Third Reich and the unborn who are defined as nonpersons and whose killers are euphemised as "abortion providers." "Today, in retrospect," says Brennan, "with the exception of unwanted pre­born humans, [these groups] are now acknowledged as legitimate victims ... But... not too long ago each group was viewed in the same way that contempo­rary abortion proponents view the unborn: as inconsequential non-victims or as dangerous aggressors." 
The abortion culture is based on homi­cide but it seeks its own survival by ver­bicide, by redefining abortion and exert­ing social and even legal pressure to prevent any of us from describing abor­tion as what it is. One unnoticed causali­ty of legalized abortion is the truth. Thus, in 1970, a pro-abortion editorial in the journal of the California Medical Association foreshadowed this tactic: "Since the old ethic has not yet been fully displayed it has been necessary to separate the idea of abortion from the idea of killing, which continues to be socially abhorrent. The result has been a curious avoidance of scientific fact, which everyone really knows, that human life begins at conception and is continuous gymnastics which are required to rationalize abortion as any­thing but taking a human life would be ludicrous if they were not put forth under socially impeccable auspices." 
The first step in eliminating the evil of legalized abortion is, at abortuaries and elsewhere, to speak the truth peacefully about what it is. Its basic principle is that which underlay the Nazi extermina­tion of the Jews, that innocent human beings can be defined as nonpersons and murdered at the discretion of oth­ers. 
Murder is an abomination, whether of an unborn child or of an abortionist. But those who generate violence against abortionists are not those who peaceful­ly and prayerfully speak the truth about abortion, but rather those who have legalized the depersonalization of the innocent and those who execute them under cover of the lie that murder is a medical service. Is Planned Parenthood right? Do words kill? In a sense, yes. As Father Matthew Habiger, of Human Life International, which group strongly opposes violence, said, "I think the words that really kill are, 'Turn on the abortion machine."' 
Professor Rice is on the Law School Faculty. His column appears every other Monday . 


VIEWPOINT
Monday, February 6, 1995 page 11 
• ~. ETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Explanation for policy changes does not add up 
Dear Editor: 
If the facts in Dave Tyler's article l"llomosexual student group denied acenss," 1/311 are correct, then the University's administration, and Father Pntnr Hocca in particular, owes the m1tire University community a better explanation of the recent decision to bar members of Gay and Lesbians of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College from using space in the University Counseling Centnr to conduct their meetings. To put it mildly, the explanations offered by Fatlwr Hocca are no explanation at all. 
As everyone knows. the University has a policy against rflcognizing GLND/SMC as an official group on the grounds that its mission is at odds with the Catholic mission of tlw university. The justifica­tion for this claim is two-fold:i) a univer­sity has the moral and legal right to exclude from recognition those groups which it deems at odds with its own mis­sion; and ii) since thn Catholic Church sees homosexuality as an "objective dis­order," and GLNJ>/SMC's very existence is predicated on the proposition that it is not, <~LND/SMC cannot be ollicially rec­ognized by the Univflrsity. 
Since I am defending GLND/SMC in this letter. I should note at the start that I agree with tenet (i) above. A university cannot function propBrly without the power to exdude groups and activities that eontravene its edueational mission. 
I disagree with (ii) on the grounds that I do not think that homosexuality is (or has ever been demonstrated to be) an "objective disorder." Let me emphasize that I don't reject (ii) bncause I reject the id1~a that there are objective disorders. I just don't happen to think that any and all homosexual orientation and/or aetivi­ty fits the bill. On those grounds, I do 
GLND/SMC 'victims' provoked conflict with University policy 
Dear Editor: 
This letter concerns the recent eoverage of the disagreement lwtween GLNO/SMC and the Administration. Specifically, I want to addrnss the "new" policy towards GLND/SMC. I feel obligated to l'irst state that I am not endorsing nor rejecting the Administration's poliey in this dispute; I do not feel that I have 1~nough information about this topie to make a legitimate, prayer­ful, and just decision. What I do object to is the Observer's cover­age of the reeent events. 
First of all, the Observer's Thursday (Feb. 2, 1995) edition reported that GLND/SMC started applying for University approval in 1993. As a recent graduate of Notre Dame and having worked in union with GI.ND/SMC through a CSC organization, I can assure you that this is false information. There have been other attempts by this organization to attain University approval, maybe not as publicized nor as formal as the 1993 attempt, but attempts were made nonetheless. 
Sm:ondly, the Observer consistently calls the Administrations action a "new policy." I do not understand how this adjective fits this ease. If it is referring to the denial of students from informally meeting in the University Counseling Center. that would indeed be a new policy (at least as far as I am aware). However, if it refers to the denial of an organization using University facilities as meeting areas without the University's approval, then this is not a new pol­icy. In fact, this policy has been consistently followed and made publie knowledge in other incidents with other organizations. 
It appears to me that the University acted very consistently with their policy in this particular case. They publicly had no problems with the students meeting at the University Counseling Center the last several years beeause they were meeting only as students (at Inast as far as the University was officially concerned). The prob­lem arose, to the best of my understanding, when GLND/SMC decidfld to publieize that those meeting were official meetings of their (non University approved) organization (and taking place in a University facility). This action presented a challenge to the University by the organization to either act on their policy or to ignore the group completely. Arguments can be made against either option's moral implications. 
I believe that these faets indicate that GLND/SMC is not as inno­eent as the Observer's reporting tends to imply. Some may call GI.ND/SMC victims because the University chooses not to officially recognize their organization, but they are victims that provoked a confrontation. Fortunately. this confliet erupted at a time benefi­eial to promoting Andrew Sullivan's lecture at the llesburgh Library auditorium. Many people came to that meeting and rneeived valuable insight into the issue that may not have reached them if the Administration had acted at a different time. 
All that I can hope is that these events provoke thoughtful, unbi­ased, and well informed reflection and discussion of the issues in this dispute. May God guide the University through this all. 
ERIC SCHIMMEL 
Gradua!e Smdem 
Moreau Seminary 
not think the University's refusal to offi­cially recognize GLND/SMC is justified. And I think that the University's refusal is partly responsible for the atmosphere of hostility directed against homosexuals on this campus, as well as the utter banality of publie discussion on the issue. 
The main issue, however, is the hypoerisy. or at least apparent hypocrisy, involved in allowing GLND/SMC to have used the Counseling Center for nine years, and in now announcing, capriciously, that it can no longer continue to do so because it advertised the location of the meetings. I say "apparent hypocrisy" because the facts were not fully clear from the arti­cle. One the one hand, the article seems to imply that GLND/SMC was allowed to usc the Counseling Center by the University itself-which makes it impos­sible to understand what was wrong in the group's advertising the fact that it was doing so. 
On the other hand, Father Rocca says: "It came to our attention that GLND/SMC was using the Counseling Center to eon­duct their official meetings." That makes it seem as if the University didn't know what was going on. How some­thing like this could go on for nine years without the university's knowledge is a mystery I do not pretend to compre­hend. But obviously, someone here (the Observer, Father Rocca, of GLND/SMC) needs to get their facts straight. 

In any case, it is truly incredible of Father Rocca to suggest that the mem­bers of GLND/SMC are not being "target­ed for their views." Is it Father Rocca's contention that GLND/SMC has been denied recognition, access (etc.) on ground entirely separable from the group's view that homosexuality is morally acceptable? 
If that is the case, then the University's position is not just wrong, but totally unintelligible. If GLND/SMC is not being targeted for its views (its strong opposi­tion to the Chureh's position on the moral status of homosexuality), then what possible justification could there be for not recognizing them in the first place? 
It is also preposterous to suggest that the University's action is not "punitive" in intent when Father Hocca himself admits the justification for denying GLND/SMC's access is the fat that it engaged in public advertising of its meetings. Given his hesitation to be clear about the University's position, one is tempted to think that the real problem is that the University just thinks that gay people are yucky. 
To put it bluntly, Father Hocca wants to have it both ways. On the one hand, he wants to uphold the university's and the Church's position condemning homosexuality. And so GLND/SMC is denied recognition and access. On the other hand, he wants to appear concilia­tory and make it seem as if denying GLND/SMC access to the Counseling Center were a morally inconsequential matter. So he tells us a tall tale about the "non-punitive" nature of the University's action. 
It is bad enough that the University thinks it must exclude GLND/SMC from official recognition. But if it is going to do that. a little candor and consistency are in order. If the University thinks homosexuality is an "objective disor­der," let it say so in just those words. And if those are its ground for banning GLND/SMC from the Counseling Center let it say that openly as well. The fact that Father Rocca tried to circumvent these issues in his remarks to the Observer is good evidence of the University's disingeniousness on this issue. 
IRFAN KHAWAJA Gradual< S1udem in Philosophy 

Dear Editor: 
I am outraged at the constant lack of support and blatant disrespect for Gay and Lesbian stu­dents on this campus. A week ago, Gay and Lesbian 'symbols' were drawn in chalk on the outer east doorway of O'Shaughnessy Hall. The following morning the graffiti had been amended to advocate intolerance of these groups at Notre Dame. 
Will I have to wait for the Spring to wash away the chalk or will someone realize the hatred inherent in those simple white lines? I under-
Roth column misrepresents abortion, women 
Dear Editor: 
Mr. Roth, in his Viewpoint Column on Friday January 27, suggested that abortion is a choice which is desired by women who are unstop­pable in their urge to kill. This is a major falla­cy. It is not in the nature of womento kill inno­cent life. One of the primary problems with abortion is the psychological and physical abuse of women which it permits. It is often men who force their girlfriends or wives into abortion. At this most emotional time in their lives, women are forced to submit to abortion in hopes that their lover will not leave them. It is men who subscribe to the "Hertz Rent-a­woman" view: use her, vacuum her out, and then turn her back in clean and ready to go. 
This viewpoint is utterly unacceptable to the Pro-Life movement in general. It is because we see the pregnant mothers and their children as real human beings worthy of respect that we are at the clinics. Any woman forced to go to an abortion clinic can find us there to offer them an out, another option, a physically, men­tally and spiritually healthy choice for life. 
stand that the lifestyles of homosexual students are not supported by this Catholic university, but that does not mean they are not human beings. It is bad enough that they have been forced to make their meetings clandestine and under­ground thanks to the administration. A little sup­port from their fellow students would go a long way. 
DOUGLAS METZ Junior Grace Hall 

Many members of the RTL group here on campus have had a hand in the saving of such lives. If anyone would like to speak to "Ruby" or her young child about that, we could arrange a phone call to her. She is one of the mothers to whom RTL still provides linancial support. If Mr. Roth would still like to argue that ND/SMC RTL should not have been at the clinics the day she was scheduled for an abor­tion, she would be more than happy to take up that issue with him. 
Having just returned from Washington D.C.'s March for Life, I can assure Mr. Uoth that the Pro-Life movement has not given up. lt is by no means frustrated, desperate, or violent. On the contrary, the movement is growing and younger, as evidenced by the record number of teens present at the March. After 22 years, Pro-Life is still here. We are young. We are enthusiastic. We are determined, and we are loving life. 
ROBERT SCHLOSSER .Junior OtT-Campus 


ACCENT 
page 12 Monday, February 6, 1995 
c 
Bizarre Plots "Weird Dialo~ue 
Vult Ulassies 
lAC Cult movies for rent 
The Warriors 
This movie centers on a gang from Coney Island, The Warriors, that are being hunted by every gang in New York City. It runs you through the streets and subway system through action sequences that even Cain from "Kung Fu" couldn't even match. The Rocky Horror Picture Show 
Welcome to the world of Dr. Frank 'n Furter (played by Tim Curry) and his mansion of weird­ness. Rocky Horror throws you into a daze with its strange plot and the active participation of the audience in the roost fun movie available. Call your friends, get some newspa­pers, some rice, a couple of pieces of toast, your water guns, put your dancing shoes on and enter "The Time Warp." Harold and Maude 
Harold is a strapping young buck in his early twenties. Maude is almost eighty-five. They fall in love. This movie explores life and its' accompanying beauty through Harold's obsession with death, his mother's desire for him to marry, and Maude's knowledge and twisted understanding of life. On top of a great story, the film is further en­hanced by the music ofCat Stevens'. Eraser Head 
David Lynch's first major film 
establishes his feel for the bizarre. 
"Eraser Head" reals the viewer 
through a nightmarish world of odd­
ity. It is perhaps the only movie tu 
capture the feeling of a nightmare 
well. 
This is Spinal Tap 
This parody of a heavy metal rock 
band who's hits include "Big 
Bottoms" and "Sex Farm" will keep 
you rolling the entire time. "Spinal 
Tap," a pseudo-documentary by Rob 
Reiner, features members of the 
Saturday Night Live cast from the 
early SO's and will keep your feet 
tapping. "Tap into the future." 
The Texas Chainsaw Massacre 
This film (allegedly based on a 
true story) follows a van full of col­
lege aged kids who run across a 
group of psychos formerly employed 
at a slaughterhouse. One adventure 
is followed by the next as the kids 
try to survive. In classic horror 
fashion, there is plenty of blood and 
guts and a swingin' good time with 
Leatherface, the chainsaw wielding 
maniac. Next time you feel up for a 
horror movie, this should suit your 
needs. 

u 
L 
T 
F 
I 
L M 
5 
By CLAUD SCHAFFLER 
Accem Writer 
W
at do the "Texas Chainsaw Massacre," Harold and Maude," and "Spinal Tap" have in common? They are all cult movies, movies that people know word for word and scene for scene. But what is a cult movie? 
This question has stumped movie critics and viewers alike. The only common aspect found in the hun­dreds of definitions of "cult movie" is the role of the audience in partici­pating in the movie. 
For some unknown reason, we find ourselves entrenched in movies which often have bizarre plots and characters. The result of such a relationship between the audience and the film culminates in our obsession with trying to become a part of the movie or through memo­rizing of dialog. 
One of the most quoted and quirky directors of the day is Quentin Tarrantino. His movies are filled with catchy one liners given by gangsters who, unlike the stereotypi­cal criminal, usually show a deep sense of personal philosophy and definition. 
This is particularly evident in the dinner scene at the beginning of "Reservoir Dogs" when Mr. Pink (played by Steve Buscemi) gives a lengthy discourse on why he doesn't believe in tipping. After all, people do not tip the kids at McDonald's. Tarrantino's movie "Reservoir Dogs," a movie about a jewel heist gone bad, develops the gangsters in such a way that the audience is able to relate to the characters. 
A
nother popular director who has acquired a cult following is Tim Burton. Films such as "Edward Scissorhands," "Pee­Wee's Big Adventure," and most recently "Ed Wood" (a movie based on a famous cult director) fall into the realm of cult movies. 
"Pee-Wee's Big Adventure," a heart-warming story about a boy and his quest to retrieve his stolen bike, hits home with the cult crowd through its strangeness both in the character of Pee-Wee (played by Paul Reubens) and the oddity of action in the film. 
The strangeness in action which is displayed in "Pee-Wee's Big Ad­venture" is common in many cult movies. The pinnacle occurs when Pee-Wee stumbles into a biker bar (a group often associated with cult sta­tus) and eventually shows what he can do on the dance floor by getting down to "Tequila." 
In cult tradition, this unnatural action helps resolve the situation­Pee-Wee gets himself a motorcycle. The members of the audience are forced to make the movie a personal event in which the viewer helps give the film meaning. 
O
ne excellent director is John Winters. The director of movies such as "Hairspray" (starring the Ricki Lake), "Cry Baby," "Polyester" and "Pink Flamingos". Winters often attacks ideals of society such as religion and morality. 
This is best shown through his dis­gustingly twisted comedy "Pink Flamingos." The movie has a strong repellent quality through its filth and sequences. It manages, however to hold the audience through its come­dy and mockery of taboo. 
Winters has also made movies which encourage physical audience participation. In his film "Polyester," audiences were given scratch 'n' sniff cards and were cued to sniff by numbers flashing on the screen. Winters' use of strangeness and comedy allow his films to embody the idea of cult film. 
lr 
is important to note that although it may appear cult films are enjoyed by all, this does not always hold true. For one person a movie may seem cute and lovable, yet to another the same movie is offensive and obscure. 
Cult movies only become cult be­cause of the audiences' desire to become a part of that movie. The ultimate result is the formation of a strange obsession and love for the 
film. 


Boys On The Side A slide into melodramatic nonesense 
"Boys on the Side" is the story of three women and the series of problems that arise during the establish­ment of their mutual friendship. The movie begins with Jane and Holly, portrayed by Whoopi Goldberg and Mary-Louise Parker, embarking on a journey to California in order to escape their past and create for themselves a better future. On their westward path the pair joins with Robin (Drew Barrymore) and becomes inextricably involved in the murder ofRobin's male companion. The remainder ofthe film is centered around the individual idiosyncharacies of the trio and the subsequent problems that arise from their part in the killing. 
Scott: Boys on the Side is not a picture that leaves me feeling completely satisfied with the fact that I just deposited $6.25 in Goldberg's coffer. Perhaps it might be due in part to my gender, but I rarely find myself laughing at Whoopi's incessant one-liners. However, I think it is more likely that I just don't find overused ob­scenities and frequent sexual generalizations to be all that funny. 
As with the majority of her others, I find Goldberg's humor to be synonomous with the bawdy banter I so often read on the walls of gas station bathrooms. Drew Barrymore fails to gain my respect or any of my laudations as well. Kudos to you, Drew, for reaffirm­

ing your role as Hollywood's most vacuous blonde. 
Continuing in the tradition of "Thelma and Louise," "Boys on the Side" suggests that the road to female lib­eration coincides with legal infractions. I find this pat­tern to be rather insultory to those people in America who try to change the existent patriarchal system by altering it instead of those who violate its laws and provide an excuse for further oppression. 
On a more positive note, Mary-Louise Parker turns in a stellar performance and could help many to empathize with the tragedy of AIDS. However, her excellence is just not enough to salvage the movie. 
John: Boys on the Side slides from a road movie to a melodrama to bathos. The movie frantically attempts to develop its characters, but it only manages to pre­sent half developed prototypes of human beings. 
Jane is the misdirected lesbian musician who has a history of falling in love with heterosexual women. Her attraction to Holly provides one of the few in­teresting subplots of the film. 
Yet this aspect of the story is stifled by Goldberg's only occasionally funny dialogue and the film's refusal to allot substantial time to its development. Robin plays the masochistic lover who cannot help but flirt with every male she comes in contact with throughout the movie. She exists in the periphery of the story and her apparent dysfunctions are skimmed over so that she becomes a caricature and her relationships with men appear humorous rather than tragic. 
Holly is the most engaging character in the film and this owes a lot to the sincere performance of Mary­Louise Parker. She deserves sympathy, but the film turns her tragic condition into bathos through a series of over done scenes toward the end of the movie. 
Boys on the Side simply can not shake off the yoke of contrived characters and situations which clutter most of its content. It needs to make a choice, either to be a drama or a road movie, but while trying to synthesize both it becomes nothing but a garble ofhalf-developed opportunities. 
Scott Bozik and John Zach movie reviews run every Monday in the Accent section ofThe Observer. 
Monday, February 6, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 

Delk cleans up for Wildcats in sloppy contest 
By MIKE EMBRY 
Associated Press 
LEXINGTON, Ky. 
Tony Delk hit a late 3-pointer, sparking No. 6 Kentucky to a 77-71 victory Sunday over No. 10 Syracuse in a game that looked more like hot-potato than basketball. 
The two teams commited a total 58 turnovers, 25 by Syracuse (16-3) and 33 by Kentucky (15-3), both season highs. 
The sloppy victory was the first for Kentucky coach Rick Pitino in seven games against Syracuse's Jim Boeheim and marked the Wildcats' first tri­umph this season over a top 10 team. Pitino served as an assis­tant on Boeheim's staff from 1976-78. 
JeiTSheppard gave Kentucky the lead for good at 64-62 when he hit two free throws with 5:14 to go. Syracuse then turned it over once and missed four shots on its next five posses­sions. 
Delk, who is recovering from a sprained left shoulder, then hit a 3 from the left wing as Kentucky held a 6 7-62 advan­tage with 3:20 to go. Syracuse got no closer than the final score. 
Delk finished with 16 points, 
while Walter McCarty added 15 
and Andre Hiddick 11 for 
Kentucky. 
Syracuse was led by 
Lawrence Moten's 23 points, 
followed by John Wallace with 
15 and Lucious Jackson 13. 
Trailing by as many as 9 
points in the first half, Syracuse rallied to go ahead 33-32 on Lazarus Sims' driving layup with 16:45 remaining in the contest. 
But Kentucky pulled even at 35 on Riddick's two free throws at 15:55, and again at 42 on Mark Pope's three-point play at 13:22. 
Anthony Epps then hit a 3­pointer from the top of the key, Jared Prickett sank two free throws and Pope made a 3 from the left wing, all following Syracuse turnovers, as Kentucky went up 50-42 with 
12:18 to go. 
Syracuse fought back to 60­60 on Moten's 3-pointer with 
6:52 left. Kentucky's Antoine Walker scored on a dunk and Moten slashed in for a layup before Sheppard's two free throws put the Wildcats up for good. 
Kentucky applied fullcourt pressure from the start, and Syracuse didn't handle it well as the Orangemen turned the ball over 18 times and shot just 27 percent (7-for-26) from the field in the first half. 
After two lead changes and four ties, Kentucky scored 6 straight points and went up 16­10 on Walker's putback with 
9:10 remaining in the half. 
Marquette 59, No. 23 Cincinnati 52 
CINCINNATI 
Marquette avenged its worst loss of the season and gave No. 23 Cincinnati its longest losing streak in five years by building a big early lead and holding on for a 59-52 victory Sunday. 
The Golden Eagles (11-7, 3-3 Great Midwest Conference) led the entire game by taking advantage of Cincinnati's poor shooting and sloppy play. The Bearcats (15-8, 5-3 GMC) have lost three straight for the first time since 1990. 
Four Marquette players hit double figures, led by R_on Eford with 15. 
Cincinnati had its worst half in two years and fell behind 26­17 at the intermission. Marquette led by 10 points with 
6:40 to go. 
The Bearcats cut it to 52-50 with 1:55 left, but Marquette hit 5-of-8 free throws down the stretch to hold on. Fortson led Cincinnati with 18 points, 16 of them in the second half. 
Coach Bob Huggins, in his third attempt at his 300th career win, spent most of the game alternately raging at his players and the officials. He be­rated his bench while the game went on, his face turning bright red, and three times went onto the court to confront the offi­cials. 
Marquette opened a 17-7 lead as Anthony Pieper hit a pair of 3-pointers and a jumper. Cincinnati never got closer than six points the rest of the half and trailed 26-17 at the inter­mission. 
Fortson, who had 19 points and 10 rebounds in the earlier win at Marquette, picked up two quick fouls and sat out most of the first half, negating the Bearcats' biggest advan­tage. Cincinnati scored 52 points from inside the paint in their earlier win. 
Marquette became the cold team at the start of the second half, going 0-4 with seven turnovers in the first six min­utes. But Cincinnati couldn't take advantage, getting no clos­er than 27-26. 
Amal McCaskill hit four con­secutive baskets for Marquette and Tony Miller and Pieper hit 3-pointers to push the lead to 43-33 with 6:40 left. 
Nebraska 71, No. 24 Oklahoma 59 
LINCOLN, Neb. 

Led by the play of alternating centers Mikki Moore and Chris Sallee, Nebraska's defense held No. 24 Oklahoma to a season­low point total in a 71-59 victo­ry Sunday. 
Oklahoma (16-5, 3-4 Big Eight) shot only 36 percent. Moore had 12 points and Sallee 11 for Nebraska (15-6, 2-4), which forced 25 turnovers. 
The Cornhuskers fell behind early as Oklahoma took a 17-9 lead on Calvin Curry's 3-pointer with 12:20 remaining in the first half. But the Sooners hit just one more field goal and scored only eight points in the remainder of the half. 
Nebraska pulled into a tie at 19 on Terrance Badgett's jump­hook with 8:10 remaining, and went into the lead for good on Jaron Boone's jumper that made the score 25-23 with 5:02 left. 
The Cornhuskers led 32-25 at 
the half. Oklahoma cut that 
margin to five points on Ryan 
Minor's basket with 18:12 left. 
But the Huskers countered with 
a 19-7 run capped by a Sallee 
dunk that gave Nebraska a 53­36lead with 10:36 remaining. 
The Sooners never got closer than 11 points thereafter. Nebraska's largest lead was 19, coming on a Boone basket with 
3:13 remaining. 
Minor led the Sooners with 20 points, 11 of which came from the free throw line. He he hit just four of his 11 shots from the floor. Dion Barnes had 15 points for Oklahoma, and Ernie Abercrombie 12. 
Boone led the Huskers with 13 points. Erick Strickland had 10 points, eight assists and seven of Nebraska's 16 steals. 
No.16 Arizona St. 87, Washington St. 60 
TEMPE, Ariz. 

As far as Arizona State coach Bill Frieder is concerned, fresh­man guard Jeremy Veal isn't a first-year player anymore. 
Veal scored a career-high 19 
points as the 16th-ranked Sun 
Devils routed Washington State 
87-60 Sunday. 
"Jeremy Veal became a sophomore," Frieder said. "He gave us a great lift off the bench. He was sensational." 
Washington State (10-7, 5-4) 
ran out to a 9-2 lead in the first 
four minutes. But Veal scored 
five of his 10 first-half points to 
key a 15-1 Arizona State run, 
and the Sun Devils led 17-10 
with 10:41 left in the first half. 
Arizona State (16-5, 6-3) led 
32-28 at halftime before 
Washington State rallied to tie 
the game .. 
Arizona State, which beat 
Washington State for the first 
time since 1992, shot 61.5 per­
cent in the second half. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
HEY SOPHOMORES .... 
Looking for that great service pro· 
ject that makes a huge difference, 
and is still a lot of fun? 
Look no further! 
THE SOPHOMORE CLASS SERVICE PROJECT 
Youth Mentoring (serving as role models for under-privileged kids)at the Northeast Neighborhood Center 
FRIDAYS 2:30-4:30, or anytime in 
between. Meet at Main Circle or 
161 Alumni Hall. Questions? Call 
Brian x1058. 
I had once intended to write an entire novel while having to urinate very badly. I wanted to see how that need affected the style and tempo of my work. I had found, for instance, that when I'm writing about a character who's in a Ph.D. program and I don't have to urinate badly, I'll have him do a regular three-or four-year program. But if I'm writing a novel and I have to uri­nate very very badly, then I'll push the character through an accelerat­ed Ph.D. program in perhaps only two years, maybe even a year. 
Mark Leyner from Et Tu, Babe, 1992 Hesburgh Auditorium,Feb.11,8pm 
Used Texts Cheap! I Check out Pandora's Books 233-2342 ND ave & Howard st 10-6m-sat 9-3 sundays 
ILOST & FOUND I 
Found: ...BIKE LOCK KEY ... On 
brand name is "Rhode Gear". -Bill X1862 
LOST • gold rectangular gold charms that says Credit Suisse. Lost early wk. of 1/30. VERY Sentimental. Reward. Call Jennifer 4·1291 
WANTED 
Spring Break! Bahamas Party Cruise 6 Days $27911ncludes 12 Meals & 6 Free Parties! Great Beaches & Nightlife! A HUGE Party! Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights Air & Hotel From $4291 Spring Break Travel 1·800·678-6386 
Florida's Spring Break Hotspots! PANAMA CITY OCEANVIEW ROOM WITH KITCHEN $1291 WALK TO BEST BARS! Cocoa Beach (Near Disney)-27 acre Deluxe Beachfront Resort 7 Nights $1591 Key West $2291 Daytona Room with Kitchen From $12911­800-678-6386 
Spring Break! Panama City! 8 Days Oceanview Room with a Kitchen $1291 Walk to best bars! Includes Free Discount Card which will save you $100 on food/drinks! 1-800· 678-6386 
RUN YOUR OWN BUSINESS, GAIN VALUABLE EXPERIENCE WHILE BUILDING YOUR RESUME. EARN UP TO $10,000 (25 JOBS) HIGH DEMAND PROD­UCT, IRRIGATION SALES AND INSTALLATION. BE A LEADER: VEHICLE REQUIRED CALL STU­DENT SPRINKLERS AT 1-800­265·7691 
Babysitter wanted -occasional evening or weekend times, for 3&1/2 and 1 year old, must have own car and be year round resi­dent, Judith 287-0260 SKI RESORT JOBS-Hiring tor many positions (including summer). Up to $2,000+ in salary & benefits (Free ski pass, ski equipment, meal discounts). Ski/Snowboard instruc­tors, lilt operators, wait staff, chalet staff, + other positions. For more information call:(206)634-0469 ext.V55842 
SUMMER JOBS 
ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS 
PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS 
NEAR LAKE PLACID 
CALL 1-800-786-8373 
STUDENTS NEEDED TO MAN­AGE PAINTING CREWS, THROUGHOUT INDIANA, FOR SUMMER OF '95. GUARANTEED TO MAKE $3000. IF INTERESTED, PLEASE CALL 1-800-94-STU· DENT. 
Painters, Foremen, and Managers­Call College Pro Painters at 1 (800) 346-4649. 
FOR RENT 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAMPUS 232-2595 
1, 2, & 3 BDRM HOMES NEAR CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW & NEXT FALL. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272· 6551 
ROOM FOR RENT. FEB.1-MAY31, 1995. MATURE STUDENT. QUIET NEIGHBORHOOD. 255·9005 
Perfect for 2nd Semester in student occupied 3·flat, heat included. Furnished 1 bedrm apt.·$260 755 South Bend Ave.-1 blk. west of ND Ave. deposit, 1·800·582-9320 
FOR SALE 
LOSE WEIGHT FOR SPRING BREAK! No diets/drugs/exercisel Fabulous Herbal Tablets: guaran­teed results! Kelly (800)209-2150 
$250 voucher for travel on America West Airlines. Being sold FOR ONLY $200. Good until11/27/95. Call Mike @ 273·6077. 
Mac Computer SE30 4/80 $600 or best offer. Luttio 288-0097 
MUTOH left-hand drafting machine w/vemco scales. 1·18" & 1·12". $595 value-<>n sale for $250. Call 679-9266. 
Brand new Technics 5-disc cd play­er with remote-perfect condition­$200 or best offer x0640 
TICKETS 
$NEED 2 PETTY TIX BRIAN @x1817 $$$ 
Marquette GAs needed Contact Bryon -1 042 
Please Help! I Need 2 Kentucky GA's. Kory X1644 
5 Duquesne GA's 4 sale. x3747 
WANTED : 6 Tickets to Tom Petty DESPERATEIIIII Please Call Mary Jane@ 271-0224 
Kentucky tix NEEDED $$Call Brent x1761 
2 Petty-loving girls desperately seeking tickets. Willing to pay big 
money! Call x-3698 and ask for 
Mary Jane. 
Need 4 tix (ga or stud) tor ND·UK garne call Lee x1216 
Help! I need MU GA's. Call Beth x4620 
Need 2 Marquette tix for my broth­er, stu OK 289·9420 NEED TICKETS FOR TOM PETTY· ELDERLY GRANDMOTHER'S DYING WISH IS TO SEE TOM PREFORM "AMERICAN GIRL" CALL·X4100 
PERSONAL 

ROSES ARE RED VIOLETS ARE BLUE THE OBSERVER HAS A SPECIAL OFFER FOR YOU 
VALENTINE'S DAY is quickly approaching and now is the time to place a classified ad for your valen­tine. All Valentine's Day ads will appear in a SPECIAL Valentine's classified section of The Observer on Tuesday, February 14. 
You may place your classified Monday through Friday from Bam to 3prn. We are located on the third floor of Lafortune. Place your ad now and beat the rush! 
Next Wednesday, make the right choice, vote Mud and Jenny! II 
SMC·ND 1995 SUMMER PRO­GRAMS IN LONDON AND ROME. TRAVEL IN IRE, SCOT, ENG, FRANCE, GER. SWITZ, & ITALY. COURSES IN BUEC, ED, HIST, ITALIAN.INFO-ORG MEETING FEB.6, AT 6:30PM CARROLL HALL·SMC.CALL PROF. A.A. BLACK 284-4460 (OFC) OR 272·3726 (HOME) 
CONFIDENTIAL, PEER-LED SUP· PORT MEETING FOR LESBIAN ANS BISEXUAL WOMEN AT SMC. Tonight at 7:30p.m. Call289-4063 or 287-6665 for more information. 
ADOPTION-A LOVING CHOICE. We're blessed with financial securi­ty and a Dalmatian! Mid-Western couple, stay-at-home mom. Allowable expenses paid. 800-440­6024 Tracy & Doug 
Attention Gays, Lesbians, Heterosexuals, Bisexuals, and Asexuals ... Can't we all live in unity? 
shadowboxers,molediggers and thellkes,burgerkingcredltcards,neon tetras, overalls doing any thing­forher, can wesaylexus,i think wecan,andmostofall,please,more mrsmith,ok,areweclear,and by the way,twowords,'davu 
LOVE IS IN THE AIR. ... Come to see THE DATING GAME!II 
sponsored by SUB, Wed, Feb 8 at8:00 p.m. @ Lafortune Ballroom Funnier than your vintage 80's Dating Gamel! BE THERE!! 
If Dave told you that all Muslims were responsible for the World Trade Center bombing. what would you think???? 
Desperately seeking ride to Padre for Spring Break. Will split gas and tolls in exchange. Call Bridget at x2702. 
Need 4 tix (ga or stud) for ND·UK game call Lee x1216 
LETTERS TO THE LOVE-GOD­DESS Dateless? Loveless? Stuck in a romantic rut? The Love-Goddess will answer all. Bring your ques· tions to The Observer's Accent Department by 5pm Sunday. The Love-Goddess knows. She's better than Oprah. 
Elections are coming up­Help student relations. Vote Mud and Jenny! II 
Kidde, Enjoy the Santa Ana's, I know they make you feel alive. ·An lllinios Farmer 
Nelanie and Carrie, You two were not just cute, but beautifulll! Hehehehe 
• Please not to be break 'n my legs 

page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Monday, February 6, 1995 
• HOCKEY 
Parity reigns in NHL 
By KEN RAPPOPORT 
Associated Press 
The New York Rangers can't get started, the Quebec Nordiques and San Jose Sharks have been hard to stop. 
What's going on in the NHL this sea­son? 
In a word, parity. 
"There's no game in the league where we're going in saying we're definitely going to win this one," said Mark Messier of the defending Stanley Cup champion Rangers. 
While the Rangers, and other top teams from last year are having their problems, the balance of power has moved to other clubs -at least for the first two weeks of the season. 
With a 6-1 record after seven games, the Nordiques have been the surprise of the league. They finished out of the playoffs last season. 
The Sharks, too, have raised some eyebrows. At 5-1, they lead the Pacific Division. Although they came within a game of the conference finals with a surprising playoff run last year, the Sharks had a modest 33-35-16 regu­lar-season record. 
"There's unbelievable parity in the National Hockey League, there's no question about it," said Keith Primeau of the Detroit Red Wings, whose Central Division-leading team lost 4-3 Saturday night to Los Angeles, which had been last in the Pacific. "I've said that the last three or four years. On any given night, the team that plays the hardest is the team that's going to win because there's such a hectic schedule. 
"You're seeing that with the out­comes of a lot of games. It doesn't mean the New Jersey Devils and New York Rangers aren't good hockey teams, but there are other teams playing exceptionally good hockey." 
The Rangers, who had the NHL's best record last season, were 3-5-1 after nine games. The Devils, who fin­ished behind the Rangers with the second best record in the league, were 2-4-1. And the Vancouver Canucks, who took the Rangers to seven games in last season's Stanley Cup Finals, were 1-3-2. 
"I don't think anybody's going to run away with anything this year," said Detroit's Ray Sheppard. "Teams have acquired guys from those teams (that had success last season) and have made themselves better." 
The closeness of the competition has been evident. 
In the 87 games played through Feb. 2, 44 had a victory margin of one goal or resulted in a tie, equating to 51 percent. This figure is up from 45 percent through 87 games last sea­son. 
While off to a league-best 7-0 start, the Pittsburgh Penguins had a one­goal victory margin in four of those games. The Rangers, by contrast, were 1-4 in one-goal games. 
"We didn't get off to as quick a start as we'd like," Rangers goalie Glenn Healy said. "Part if it is that we are playing some capable teams." 
Teammate Adam Graves agreed. 
"There are a lot of talented players 
around the league," he said. 
Another prevailing theory about the 
parity trend: If a team has a weakness 
it is less likely to be exposed over a 
shorter, 48-game season. 
ag1nn:s1 the owners' \'~JI•Jacem.'.el.1t. players. ~qe J!!·.. l'!J.IllilJJ.ll•g. •out on us," said aPJIOinted special media­''We all know • onour nation. It's· ·.we try to get baseball 
meet Sunday night at ...J._..,,.,· with La,bor Secretary 

•and deputy White House counsel Bruce Undsey, the president's point men for baseball. 
were The adminlstration planned to have to Usery tell negotiators to work through the ...,,~* 'night, according to a senior administra.­.,~+--Jion oflic.ial, sp~aking on the condition he 
not be identified. . "We want to keep them guessing about · we mightdo,'' the official said. skl!d1nlave1•s and ownersto sl)b­. . · position'' to him on 
•on Monday, Usery planned . . to give s proposal to the presiden"I hU~ would be hopeful they would accept it," , .,t~\14\ Usery said. ''Ffir us to meet the presi­d own-dent's deadline; we have to do what we're the next doing. ..• This is very. very serious busi­
ness.'' ''W~)t1!F'' 
Following Usery's announcement, hackchannel negotiations still were going on. Tom Reich and Ron Shapiro, a pair of prominent player agents, were at the hotel where the talks are being held. The sides worke4 Qn formulating their final 
''hffers. · · 
~OBSERVER 
is now accepting applications for the 
1995-96 General Board 
Any full-time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. Please submit a three page statement ofintent with a resume to john Lucas by Wednesday, Feb. 15 at 5 p.m. For questions about the application process or for more information about any position, call The Observer at 631-4541. 
NEWS EDITOR Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The News Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story and series ideas and is responsible for the content of the news section each day. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR Applicants should have editorial writing and editing skills and an ability to deal with the public. The Viewpoint Editor manages a staff of copy and layout editors and columnists and decides what letters will run each day. 
SPORTS EDITOR Applicants should have sports reporting, writing and editing skills. The Sports Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and special sections, arranges travel accommodations for reporting trips and is responsible for the content of the sports section each day. 
ACCENT EDITOR Applicants should have features writing and editing experience. The Accent Editor manages editors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas, and is responsible for the content of the Accent pages each day. 
PHOTO EDITOR Applicants should have photography and developing experience. The Photo Editor manages a staff of photographers and lab technicians and must work closely with News, Sports and Accent department editors in assigning pho­tographs. 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR Any full-time undergraduate student at Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. The editor manages Saint Mary's department heads, coordinates coverage with Notre Dame staff, generates story ideas on the Saint Mary's campus and is responsible for the Observer office at Saint Mary's. 
ADVERTISING MANAGER Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The Advertising Manager oversees an assistant and a staff of account executives and is responsible for generating advertising revenue. 
AD DESIGN MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of QuarkXpress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager oversees a staff of designers, works closely with advertising and marketing departments and is responsible for the design and layout of advertisements. 
PRODUCTION MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience, knowledge of QuarkXpress and design, layout and newspaper production experience. The Production Manager oversees a staff of night production designers and works closely with department staff on layout and design. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge of computer networking. The· Systems Manager maintains and updates the Macintosh network and printers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system. 
OBSERVER MARKETING DIRECTOR Director wilt be responsible for generating new ideas and campaigns for advertis­ers. The marketing director will oversee one assistant and will work closely with Ad Design manager and account executives. Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and strong self-motivation. 
CONTROLLER Applicant must be a junior accounting major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. The Controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operating budget and taxes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and order transaction duties. 
Monday, February 6, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• PRO BASKETBAll 
Real Rockets down Suns Orlando stops skid, -­
By MEL REISNER 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX 
The Houston Hockets haven't exactly beat up on the rest of the NBA this season as defend­ing champions. 
If the Hockets could clone their performance Sunday against the Phoenix Suns, though, they'd be playing their role much better. 
"I thought the real Houston Hockets showed up for this game," said Vernon Maxwell, one of two guards whose 3­point sharpshooting blended with llakeem Olajuwon's strength inside in a 124-100 rout of the Suns. 
"It was just a great game for us," Maxwell went on. "We got the post play out of Hakeem, and the guys on the outside were knocking down the 3s." 
Olajuwon, who had 28 points, 11 rebounds and three blocks, said the Hockets were psyched to play the Suns on national television. 
"The only problem with this team is sometimes we lose fo­cus and play individual basket­ball," he said. 
Houston, which knocked the Suns out of the Western ConferencP semifinals in seven games last season and beat them 114-106 at The Summit on Dec. 22, became only the third team to defeat Phoenix at home this season and the first to beat them twice. 
The defeat dropped Phoenix into a tie with Orlando for the NBA's best record, but Charles Barkley was philosophical about it. 
"They shot 12-of-24 from 3­point land," Barkley said. "There isn't much you can re­ally do about that. They shoot 12-for-24, they're going to beat us every time. We've got to make a decision what to do about that monster in the mid­dle." 
Maxwell and Sam Cassell scored 19 points apiece as the Rockets won their fourth straight, ending a three-game winning streak by Phoenix. 
Maxwell hit 5-of-9 from be­yond the arc, held Dan Majerle to three points -all on foul 
uWhy is Chris Lee such a happy boy?" 
He's II 
,.odayt 
Happy Birthday, 
(3[t}[?d0g 
shots -and drew accolades from Houston coach Rudy Tomjanovich. 
"Max has done a phenomenal job on him, and if Majerle gets it going, I'm telling you there's no range he can't hit it from ­there's no range. So we know we have to stay on him so he doesn't get going," the coach said. 
Cassell, who was 4-of-5 from long range, put the game out of reach with his last trey that made it 114-93 with 3:27 to play. 
"The Rockets were outstand­ing, and we couldn't find a way to cover them. We were dou­bling inside and not rotating to their 3-point shooters very well, and they were knocking them down," Phoenix coach Paul Westphal said. 
Charles Barkley had 24 points, 11 rebounds and seven assists but couldn't prevent the Suns from embarrassing them­selves in front of a nationwide audience for the second straight Sunday. New York beat the Suns 107-88 in a national telecast seen days earlier. 
By FRED GOODALL 
Associated Press 
ORlANDO, Fla. 

Orlando took aim at two tar­gets and hit them both with Sunday's 103-100 overtime vic­tory over the New York Knicks. 
The victory was the second in three meetings between the Magic and the defending Eastern Conference champions, who entered the game as the hottest team in the NBA. 
Orlando coach Brian Hill also felt it sent a message to critics who suggested his team was teetering in the face of its first loss at home and club's only two-game losing streak of the season. 
"The word around the coun­try is that we're coming unglued because we lose two games in a row," Hill said. "Well, we're back." 
Shaquille O'Neal won another personal duel with Patrick Ewing, scoring 41 points and grabbing 15 rebounds, and 
Sonics keep streak alive 

Associated Press 
MIAMI 
Shawn Kemp had 26 points and 11 rebounds and Seattle set a team record with its 1Oth straight road victory, a 136-109 decision over the Miami Heat on Sunday. 
With every Seattle starter scoring in double figures in the first three quarters, the SuperSonics won for the 14th time in their last 16 games. 
Kemp, Sam Perkins and Kendall Gill combined for Seattle's first 23 points as the 
Sonics hit six of eight 3-pointers 
AFRICAN 1ERICAN 

HISTOR"' ~illJ.ITH 
The contributions n1ade by African AI 
to our natiohal ct.tlhire and tbat of the word can be seen wherever we looh.. The Notre D~e 
~~e is proud to once again offer Y.-; selection ~ boolzs representing these / contribution We invite you to join in
~s 
sharing the e periences and inspirations of e 
African Amen an people. 


The Hammes 
NOTRE DAME BOOK TORE 
\:~n the campus" Open Mon~y-Sacurday 9a. 

defeats New York 
Orlando improved the best record in the East to 36-10 with its sixth overtime victory in seven tries. 
Dennis Scott broke a 98-98 tie with a 3-pointer, and Anfernee Hardaway made a pair of free throws with 11.1 seconds remaining as the Magic outscored New York 5-2 in the extra period. 
Ewing scored 26 of his sea­son-high 38 points in the sec­ond half to help the Knicks overcome a 15-point deficit. He hit a 3-pointer late in regula­tion, then made a clutch base­line jumper over Horace Grant to send the game into overtime. 
But New York missed all 10 of its shots from the field in the extra period. 
O'Neal was virtually a one­man show in the fourth quar­ter, scoring his team's first 11 points and 13 of the 18 points Anderson, whose buzzer-beat­ing jumper rimmed out at the end of regulation, had 15 points for the Magic. 
and built a 30-15 lead that was never challenged. 
Vincent Askew came off the bench to score 19 points. Gill finished with 21, Gary Payton and Detlef Schremp[ each added 18, and Perkins had 14. 
The Heat got little from its starting lineup beyond Billy Owens, who led Miami with 21 points. Kevin Willis, sidelined for five games with tendinitis in his left knee, added 17 points off the bench for the Heat. 
Seattle, the league leader in steals, had eight in the first half and finished with 11 steals. 
The Sonics led 64-40 at the half and stretched the lead to as many as 29 points in the fourth quarter. Seattle led 102­77 after three quarters against a Miami team that had held its last six opponents under 100 points. 
Seattle hasn't lost on the road since falling to the Los Angeles Lakers on Dec. 29, 1994. 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 

SpriiJgSemester Speoial 
141NCH 2 ITEM PIZZA .. $7 INCLUDES TAX 2 .. 1'2 INCH 6 ITEM PIZZAS -$1 0 INCLUDES TAX 
2 7 3-3 8 .9 0· 
(ISTILL Tf---fE HEST" 

-----------...-----­
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, February 6, 1995 
•Nfl 
r--·----
Faulk sets rushing record in AFC blowout 
By KEN PETERS Associated Press 
HONOLULU 
In still another NFC-AFC blowout, Marshall Faulk turned the tables on the NFC. 
The Indianapolis Colts' -star, the only rookie in the game, staged the most spectacular running show in the quar­ter-century history of the Pro Bowl on Sunday, rushing for 180 yards to shatter 
O.J. Simpson's 22-year-old record in the AFC's 41-13 rout of the NFC. 
The AFC, whose champions have lost 11 straight, mostly by lopsided scores, to the NFC in the Super Bowl, won the Pro Bowl for the third time in five years. 
Closing the books on the 1994 NFL season, Faulk carried 13 times and scored on a 49-yard run to top Simpson's record of 112 yards rushing in the 1973 Pro Bowl. 
''I've watched this game many times and for it (the record) to happen to me is incredible," Faulk said. "To have a big game here means a lot. I ran behind an All-Pro line and it showed. We just blew them off the ball." 
The AFC, coached by Bill Cowher and his Pittsburgh staff, dominated on both sides of the line of scrimmage. 
Seattle's Chris Warren also went over the previous rushing mark with 14 car­ries for 127 yards for the AFC, which rolled up a Pro Bowl-record 400 yards on the ground against the NFC's all-star defense. 
The AFC defense, with linebacker Junior Seau of San Diego logging seven tackles, gave up just 209 yards of of­fense to the NFC, only 41 yards rushing. 
Warren had the rushing record late in the game, but Faulk ended up with it when he reeled off his 49-yard TD run off a fake punt in the closing minutes of the game at Aloha Stadium. 
"We were informed when I was in the process of breaking the record," Warren said. "They wanted to get me the ball so I could break it. Then they took me out and put Marshall in and he broke it. 
"We were going back and forth (with the record). I felt like whoever got the ball last would have the record." 
The AFC players earned $20,000 each for the victory and the NFC players got $10,000 apiece. 
"I wasn't really surprised at the out­come," said Barry Switzer, whose Cowboys staff coached the NFC. "These all-star games, guys make big plays here and there." 
Tight end Eric Green of Pittsburgh had two touchdown receptions, including a 22-yarder from Denver's John Elway in the second quarter that helped bring the AFC back from a 10-0 deficit. He then had a 16-yard TD reception from the Los Angeles Raiders' Jeff Hostetler in the final quarter, when the AFC broke the game open with three touchdowns. 
Steve Young of San Francisco, the MVP of the 49ers' 49-26 Super Bowl blowout of San Diego a week earlier, helped stake the NFC to a 10-0 lead in the first quarter, but a third-quarter field goal by Minnesota's Fuad Reveiz was the only other NFC scoring. 
Young completed 8 of 15 passes for 129 yards and one TD. 
"We didn't stop them on the first cou­ple of drives, but then we shut them down and controlled the ball on offense," Cowher said. 
Faulk made several spectacular runs, including a 41-yarder early in the fourth quarter. On his late touchdown, he broke tackles in the secondary for the game's final score. 
Cleveland's Leroy Hoard put the AFC in front to stay when he threaded his way through the defense on a 4-yard touchdown run for a 17-10 lead 2:07 before halftime. 
Hostetler, a replacement for the injured Dan Marino on the roster, drove the AFC to the TD by Hoard, with a 10­yard scramble and a 35-yard completion to Miami's Irving Fryar down to the NFC 11-yard line. 
Denver's John Elway, unable to gener­ate any offense for most of the first quarter, put the AFC on the board when he hit Green, all alone down the middle, for a 22-yard touchdown in 43 seconds into the second period. 
Natrone Means of San Diego broke loose outside on a 41-yard run to the NFC 47 on that Elway-engineered 88­yard touchdown march. 
John Carney's 22-yard field goal on the AFC's next possession made it 10­10, then Hoard scored the next time the AFC had the ball. 
•NHl 
Nicholls propels Hawks to third straight 
Associated Press 
VANCOUVER 
Bernie Nicholls scored four goals Sunday as the Chicago Blackhawks beat the Vancouver Canucks 9-4 for their third straight road victory. 
It was the third career four­goal performance for Nicholls, who also assisted on two goals by Paul Ysebaert for a six-point game. 
Brent Sutter, Gary Suter and Jeremy Roenick also scored for Chicago, which is 4-1 so far on an eight-game trip. Chicago does not play at home again until Feb. 16. 
The loss was the fourth in seven games for Vancouver and kept the Canucks winless in four home games. Vancouver surrendered three more power­play goals, increasing their total allowed to 12 in seven games. 
The rout started eight sec­onds into the game when 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND PANAMA CITY BEACH DAYTONA BEACH 
ltij'lhHi\1 
STEAMBOAT VAIL/BEAVER CREEK 
• PER PERSON DEPENDING ON DESTINATION I BREAK DATES /LENGlH OF 
f.;.8QQ.;.SIJNCU-4.S·E 
TOLL fJ!II1If INrOI!Wo\TION & RlfStERviJTION.S 
Sutter's long shot bounced into the net off the glove of Vancouver netminder Kirk McLean. 
Before the period was over, the Blackhawks had a 4-0 lead on power-play goals by Nicholls and Suter plus another one by Nicholls on a pass from Ysebaert when the teams were each a man short. 
Nicholls matched his first-pe­riod production in the second, scoring on a pass from Patrick Poulin and again on the power play, this time unassisted. 
Vancouver got power-play goals from Jeff Brown and Trevor Linden against Chicago netminder Ed Belfour, plus late goals by Dave Babych and Cliff Ronning. 
Bruins 5, Whalers 4 
BOSTON 
Jozef Stumpel finished a 3­on-1 breakaway with his first goal of the season Saturday, giving the Boston Bruins a 5-4 victory over the Hartford Whalers. 
Adam Oates had two goals and an assist and Don Sweeney had three assists for the Bruins, who peppered Sean Burke with 53 shots. 
Boston's Blaine Lacher had 28 saves, including one on a breakaway by Steve Rice with 
9:30 left. The Bruins' rookie also stopped a point-blank slap­shot by Andrew Cassels a minute later, setting up Stumpel's game-winner. 
The puck bounced out to-
The Observer 
is now looking for an 
Assistant Systems Manager 
Looking for someone with extensive experience supporting Macintosh computers: including networking, hardware maintenance, training, user support and general knowledge. Earn up to $40 per week. Contact Sean Gallavan 
631-8839 (work) 232-7991 (home) 
1fwe could we would 
''Fly you to the Moon" Happy Birthday 
JEi®Illll]lll® 
Love, 
Jamaica-me-crazy 
wards the blue line, where Steve Heinze picked it up and pushed it ahead. By the time he got to the Whalers' zone, Sweeney and Stumpel had joined him, with only one de­fenseman in the way. 
The three Bruins worked it around before Stumpel put it past an outnumbered Burke for the game-winner. 
Ted Donato scored for the Bruins only 39 seconds into the game and Oates made it 2-0 at 
3:01. Hartford tied it 2-2 at 
8:42 when Darren Turcotte and Mark Janssens scored 20 sec­onds apart. 
Boston took the lead again on Oates' fourth goal of the sea­son, 5:20 into the second. Again the Whalers came back, this time when former Bruin Glen Wesley took advantage of Ray Bourque's turnover and slapped it past Lacher. 
Three minutes into the third, Rice tipped Paul Ranheim's shot past Lacher, giving the Whalers their first lead of the game, 4-3. Now it was the Bruins' turn to rally. 
The puck came out to David Shaw at the right point, and his first attempt was blocked by the defense. It came right back to Shaw, though, and his sec­ond attempt hit Burke's pads. 
Again following his shot, Shaw picked up the puck at the right side of the net, circled around the back of the goal and stuffed it between Burke's legs, tying it 4-4 with 14:40 to go. 


summer work-ing wi.d a cHsadvantaged popuLation 
sponsored by Notre Dame A.Cu.mni. CCu&s across the country 
-a wonderfu.C l:earni11-9 experience -$ 1 S 0 0 . 0 0 Socia£ Concerns SchoLarship 
-3 Theowgy credits 
.9lppfication cfeaafine: ![e6ruary 8tn 
inforrnation availabk at the Center for Socia£ Concerns 
Questi.ons: $I!C !JOUr KaU: Rep or Sue Cunni.nq(uun l>t tfle esc 
Thinh, Summer 
consid:er spendi-11-9 ei9ht weeh.s of your 



The Observer/ Eric Reuthling Jay Matushak, shown here in early action, scored against Miami, but the Irish were unable to prevail as they lost both games over the weekend. 
page 17 

Reality 
continued from page 20 
Terry Lorenz scored one goal apiece to lead the rally. 
With 6:23 remaining, Lorenz powered the puck past Redskin goaltender Charles Thuss to tighten the game at 7-5. However, Andrew Miller's goal with 38 seconds to play put the nail in the coffin, as Miami held on for an 8-5 victory. 
"The guys gave a strong ef­fort, but playing catch-up hock­ey is difficult to do," said Schafer. 
Saturday's game had a differ­ent look to it but the same re­sult. The Irish jumped out to a 1-0 lead when Lorenz received a pass from Morshead and slid the puck past Thuss for his tenth goal of the season. 
Lorenz's goal must have struck a nerve in Miami, as the Redskins roared back in the second period with three unan­swered goals to take a 3-1 lead. Rather than lie down, the Irish once again put together a valiant comeback effort. 
Freshman center Steve Noble found Lorenz wide open for an easy score to tighten the game at 3-2 with 1:43 remaining in the second period. For the rapidly improving Lorenz, it was his second goal of the evening and fourth of the week­end. 
Just 3:24 into the third peri­od, Jamie Ling was the recipi­ent of a Chris Bales pass and responded with his 11th goal of the season to knot the game at three. It appeared that Notre Dame was destined for an amazing come-from-behind vic­tory, but it was not meant to be. 
In the final minutes, the Irish failed to put the puck in the net when it counted the most. The Redskins managed a pair of late goals to seal a 5-3 victory. 
Scramblin 
continued from page 20 
our game plan and in the final 11 minutes of the game did everything we needed to do." 
Letitia Bowen was an all around force on the court with not only 17 points, but game highs in all three categories of rebounds with 10, assists with 9, and steals with 6. Saturday's game was Bowen's second con­secutive double double. 
"Letitia had another outstanding game for us," 
Coach Muffet McGraw said, "For the second straight game she played well at both ends of the floor." The Irish owned it all on the boards as Notre Dame out rebounded Loyola 44 to 27. Rebounding force is becoming the team's trademark as they have outre­bounded their opponents in every game this year. 
The Irish defense took control in the second half, denying buckets for several stretches of 4 minutes or more. Once the offense turned it on and the defense stepped up, Notre Dame went on a 24-7 run late in the second half to gain a 12 point lead and clinch the win. 
"I was really pleased with our intensity on defense in the sec­ond half," McGraw said, "[We] came back strong in the final 20 minutes." 
The Irish are on their longest winning streak of the season as they have won their last six games. Notre Dame's current record is 13-7, and has won 11 of their last 12 games. The team remains the only unde­feated team in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference with a record of 8-0 and enjoys a cozy first place in the conference. 
Check in 4:30-5:30 on Friday and Sunday and 11:00 AM-2:00 PM on Saturday. For rates and more info call the Golf Shop at 1-6425 or RecSports at 1-6100. 
BENGAL BOUTS -Training occurs daily at 4:00 PM at the JACC. Anyone interested should please contact Jeff Goddard at 287-8041. 
ND RUGBY CLUB -Spring practice begins today at 10:30 and on Wednesday, February 8th at 9:30. If you have any questions call Brendan at 234­8276 or Mike at 4-2289. 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL ­Anyone interested in being a 1995 Bookstore commissioner can pick up an application in the Student Government office in LaFortune until today at 4 PM. Any questions? Call Greg at 4-1560. 
CLIMBING WALL SCHEDULE -The climbing wall is now open for use. The hours will be sundays 2:oo-s:oo and Tuesdays and Thu~sdB:ys from 7:00-10:00. The chmbmg wall is loc~ted in the Rockne Memonal and anyone inter­ested in using it must attend an orientation session. For more 
info call RecSports at 1-6100. 

Junior CAPP and MIS Majors 
for Summer Internships with Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P. 
Pizza and information available 7:00p.m. Tuesday, February 7 Room 210 Continuing Education Center 
Coopers & Lybrand L.LP
Sponsored by ICoopers CAPP Honor Society and &Lybrand Ia professional services firm 
Please bring your resume with you 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
CROSS-COUNTRY SKI RENTALS -Rentals are avail­able to students, faculty, and staff. Rent skis, boots, and poles. No reservations neces­sary. Check out 4:30-5:30 on Thursday and Friday and 11:00 AM-2:00 PM on Saturday. 
8 -20/30
MINUTE PACKAGES 


or 

1 MONTH/3 MONTH UNLIMITED PACKAGES 
··--·· 

If . . @11 
~Oik-agollairn.uinglli~ 
• . ­
5804 Grape Rd., Mishawaka 
2n-7946 

HOURS: 9to8 Sat.9to6 Sun.11-5 
rne CJbMNar/ Kyle Kusek Sophomore Beth Morgan scored 29 points against Loyola to lead all Irish scorers in the contest. 
,~--­
,. • StUNT MARY'S BASKETBAll 
Fundamentals key to Belles' victory 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, February 6, 1995 
By ARWEN DICKEY Sports Writer 
Concentrating on shooting in practice worked for the Saint Mary's basketball team as the Belles easily defeated the 3-18 Cougars of Concordia University 77-53 last Thursday night. 
Saint Mary's, now on a two game winning streak, improved its record to 5-10. Pressure defense made the difference for the Belles. The defense was a real problem for Concordia as it provided easy scoring opportu­nities for Saint Mary's. 
The Belles went into the lock­er room at halftime with only a 33-31 lead over the Cougars. Saint Mary's emerged ready to play in the second half, making good passes and hitting the bucket and outscoring Concordia 44-22. 
Junior forward Jennie Taubenheim had an all-around great night as she led the Belles with 25 points, 15 rebounds and four steals. Freshman guard Brenda Hoban also had a good game scoring 15 points and recording five steals. Sophomore guard Sarah Kopperud and junior center Barbara Howells also scored in double digits tallying 12 and 11 points respectively. 
"We had a hard time shaking the long holiday break. We still need to smooth out some areas, but it was a great night," com­mented head coach Marvin Wood. 
Saint Mary's has a tough week ahead with three big games. The first challenge will be against Defiance College tomorrow night. 
Wood said, "Defiance has been in the top 20 off and on all year. They are a quick team with good athletes. I think we are ready." 
• SAINT MARY'S SWIMMING 
Swimmers hindered against Calvin College 
By SHARI MATELSKI Sports Writer 
With the cold weather, and increasing snow flurries com­ing our way across Notre Dame soil, colds are an inevitable part of life. This, as well as the fact that the Saint Mary's swimmers have a few injured players, was a great disadvan­tage at last Friday's match against Calvin college. 
The overall score would have been greatly increased with more bodies being able to hit the water. With the strong group that did compete the per­formance and independent out­comes were more than accept­able and rewarding. 
The girls as a whole swam strongly but started to rest as the meet progressed. They have been working strongly for the last few weeks on coming together and utilizing the exact strong points of each swimmer. This work is the negative force that came upon them at the meet. 
This meet challenged and strengthened the team, even though it ended in defeat. Personal accomplishments were definitely seen in the coach's eyes and the teams minds. 
Smith, Katie Northrup, Natalie Cheeseman, and Sara Gillen were recognized by Coach Janson as having exceptional runs in their fields of expertise. They are definitely on the up and coming in their events. 
Smith has been improving through the week and held strong throughout the competi­tion. 
Mitchell swam much better in her primary and pulled through incredibly in the 500 meter freestyle. It was a great accom­plishment since that is not her regular event. 
Cheeseman shut out her com­petition by winning the 100 me­ter breast stroke. 
Out of her usual fashion, Sara Gillen did very well in the 200 meter freestyle and 200 meter backstroke. 
Katie Northrup had a season­al best in the 200 meter independent medley. She also claimed a very good position in the 200 meter butterfly. 
The facilities offered at Calvin College were quite a different change from the norm. The pool was very old with blocks that troubled the swimmers. Home court does always have advantage. This fact definitely was put into effect at the match. 

The Observer/ Eric Ruethling 

Despite almost missing the flight to Los Angeles, Derek Manner was one of the few bright spots for the Irish 
as he scored 11 points in the losing effort. 
Bruise 
continued from page 20 
Garrity finished with only nine points and Ryan Hoover also added nine. 
UCLA got 10 from Ed O'Bannon and nine from his 
Recycle the Observer 


Observer Marketing Department 
Put your talents to work! 
Client Service Artists & positions Designers 
• Are you interested in 
• 
Are you creative? commercial design? 

• 
Do you enjoy good 


. . ~ \ • Would you like the adverttstng. : · k · h
:opportuntty to wor wtt 
• Would you like to promote :th Ob 1 IlK k t· g
. e servers 1nar e tn
1 

the accounts oflocal  ' 'team?  
businesses?  • Would you like your work  
• Are you hard-working?  to be seen daily by 13,000  
ireaders?  
1• Are you hard-working?  

The Observer is welcoming resumes for the above paid positions until Friday, February 
10. Ifyou have any questions contact Tom Lillig at 631-8839. 
brother Charles. Tyus Edney, recovering from strep throat that sidelined him earlier in the week, dodged the Irish defense for 15 points as did freshman Toby Bailey. 
"The second half was a dif­ferent story," MacLeod said. "Once they got rolling we saw just how strong a club UCLA is." 


Jennifer Mitchell, A~ll~is~o~n~----------------------_...........................~..............~!!~......................1 
SUBWAY's A.1. Steak &Cheese 
_... BACK BY POPULAR DEMAND! 
~~10,1995

f) For alimited time only 
Friday, February 10/7:00 p.m./ Joyce ACC 
Monday, Febraury 6, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM MIKE PETERS CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 

BILL WATfERSON
CALVIN AND HOBBES 




SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 
I 1-\AVE. AN ETHICAL QUE:)TlON ABOUT TELECOMMUTING , 
WELL, Wf-IEN YOU FACTOR IN I-lOW YOU'RE ~YING THE PLANET BY NOT DRIVING, YOU ONLY OWE ONE 1-\0UR. 
AND THIS -MEETING .-J.........-.(~ COUNTS. 
2/6 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
Hoping to bolster its sagging ticket sales, Comet Airlines introduces its new line of glass-bottomed jets. 
·•r~r~ 

:,,@1.•,~ ·.·. e Hall Contracts for 1995-96 academic year have been sent to the residence halls. In order to be eligible· for housing in the fall. students must return the contract to the office of Student Residences prior to 5p b.ntary 15, 1995. ·" Summe~ reslden~~·hall staff applications are now available in the Office of Student Residences, 311 Main Bldg., from 8 AM until 5 PM Monday through Friday . Applications received prior to February 28 will receive 
~~~~: 

Student Union Board Applications are now avail­able in the Student Government Office on the 2nd floor o LaFortune. Positions include programmers, account ex~cutiyes, controllers, graphic designers and office manag~!S· Applications are due February 17. 
Women's Film Festival Week • sponsored by the Women's Resource Center, presents "The Color Purple" tonight at 7pm in the Montgomery Theatre. Admission is 

a short discussion will follow. 
Lynette Norr from the University of IIJinois will give a lecture entitled "The Role of Subsistence and Settlement in the Development of Rank Societies in Prehistoric .Pananu~" today at 4:45pm in 118 DeBartolo. 
• _z:tp; 

North Dining Hall South Dining Hall 

Chicken in the Pot Pbllly Steak Sandwich Corn Walnut Pie Kahlua Fudge Torte 
II~ YftiJ Sl~l~ Nl~l\7S llilt•t•J~NINf), f~ili..J.. '1,111~ f)liSI~ lllTJ~ ll 
The Observer 

P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
~ DO I OWE MY EI"\PLOYER ~ ~ EIG'"'T PRODUCTIVE.. HOURS) ~ 
0 u 
: OR DO l ONLY NEED TO .: S t'\ATCI-\ Tf-\E TWO ?RODOC-~ ~ TIVE 1-\0URS I WOULD ! ~ f-\A\IE IN TI-\E-OFFICE? : 
.
: 
, 
! 
c 
..:::> ..
.. 
Q 
DOGBE.RT. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 "Julius Caesar" role 5 Shall not, old-style 
10 Actress Drescher of "The Nanny" 
14 The third man 15 Red, white or blue 1&San -­(Riviera resort) 17 Uncle Ben's dish 18 Rod Stewart's ex 19 "What's--for me?" 20 James Cook 
ship 22 Hardy heroine 23 FedEx rival 
59 Breakfast order 60 Neeson and O'Fiaherty 61 German-Polish 
border river 62 Avec's opposite 63 Stan's friend, in 
old films 64 Tableland 65 First word of 
Massachu­
setts's motto 66 Lawman Earp 67 "-as 1, 2,3" 
DOWN 
1 Mystery writer John Dickson 
2 He had an Irish Rose 3 Priva~ eyes, in 
slang 4 Butterine 5 Diving ducks 6 Romance 
novelist Victoria 
etal. 7Jai-­a Taboo 9 Conduct, as 
business 
11 Extend, as a subscription 12 Some Mennonites 13 Untrue 
Gospels 
26 Ripoff 27 --fides (bad faith): Lat. 

24 Words after "Oh 
yeah?" 26 Smiles smugly 30 Doe's mate 32 "Tippy" boat 33 Henry Hudson 
ship 38 Tough-guy 
actor Ray 39 Corday's victim 40 Gen. Robt. -­41 William 
Bradford ship 43 Sports facility 44Charged 
particles 45 Shorebird 46 Indiana college 50 Coach 
Parseghian 51 A Great Lake 52 Sir Francis 
Drake ship 

28--500 45 Coffee-maker 49 Novelist switch Hermann
29 Heliport site, often 46 V-formation 50 Fess up 
30 Fillies' fathers fliers 53 Unctuous 
31 Moscow ruler 54 Carol syllables 
47 Sidewalk 33 Sunup grinder's 55 "Fourth base" 
34--Beach, Fla. 
instrument 56 Notion 
35 Hgt. 48 "Stop" and 57 An Untouchable "Merge," e.g. 58 Cart
36 Artist Magritte 
37Vintage 
39 Clair de lune 
Get answers to any three clues 
42 Tell a whopper 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
43 A. A. Milne's first name 
5656 (75¢ each minute). 
Make checks payable: 
and mail: 
0 


Enclosed is $60 for one academic year. 
D Enclosed is $35 for one semester. 
Naine __________________________________ _ 
Address,______________ 
City______State.___Zip_____ 
.. 
• 
• 

-
rrlie 06server 
Published Monday through Friday, lJ1U. 06serve.r is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found 
71it. 06se.rve.r an indispensible link to the two cam­puses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive %e. 06server in your 
home. 

SPORTS 
• MEN'S BASKETBAll 
Bruins bruise Irish with second half surge 
page 20 Monday, February 6, 1995 
Notre Dame suffers worst loss in twenty­four years, 92-55 
By JASON KELLY 
Associate Sports Editor 
Derek Manner almost missed the Notre Dame basketball team's flight to Los Angeles on Saturday. 
He overslept and had to catch a bus to O'Hare, where he arrived with only ten minutes to spare. 
That was the best thing that happened to the Irish all weekend. Without Manner, UCLA's 92-55 decapitation of Notre Dame on Sunday at Pauley Pavilion might have been even more gory. 
His team-high 11 points prevented fur­ther mutilation. But he couldn't save the Irish from their worst defeat since a 58­point loss to UCLA on the same floor on December 22, 1971. 
"It was a case of UCLA flat-out over­powering us," Notre Dame coach John MacLeod said. "As soon as they saw we were in trouble, they went after us." 
They overwhelmed the Irish with a 63­point second-half barrage that broke open what was only a two-point game at halftime. Unable to matchup with the Bruins at any position, Notre Dame was simply swallowed by the surge. 
It was sparked by Ed O'Bannon, who went after Manner after a hard foul on Tyus Edney. The outburst drew a tech­nical foul, but it inspired his teammates to shake off their sluggish start. 
"It invoked the killer instinct to us and we really put them away," said Bruins' center George Zidek, who led all scorers with 20 points. 
UCLA's offense ignited, pulling away with a 30-9 run that erased any Irish upset hopes. 
The Irish didn't play much better in the first half, when they trailed only 29­
27. But UCLA was much worse. 
Missing several easy shots, the Bruins couldn't capitalize on 16 Irish turnovers in the first 20 minutes. 
"The first half was good," MacLeod said. "But in the second half we had trouble dealing with their defensive pressure." 
While the Bruins' fleet defenders dis­rupted the Irish offense, it was their plodding center Zidek who did the most damage offensively. He dismantled Notre Dame's depleted front line. 
"We just didn't have an answer for Zidek," MacLeod said. 
Starting center Marcus Young was ejected after throwing a body block at Zidek and Matt Gotsch played much of the game in foul trouble. 
Notre Dame's leading scorer Pat 
see BRUISE I page 18 

• WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Ramblers sent scramblin' at home 
ByKCGOYER 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame Fightin' Irish sent the Loyola Ramblers scramblin' on Saturday afternoon as the women's basketball team won 92-76. 
Loyola stayed with Notre Dame sur­prisingly long rallying at the end of the second half to a tie it at 38 just before the intermission. 
Notre Dame opened the second half strong with an 8-0 run to take the lead, but Loyola coutered with a 13-6 run to bring the game once again within either team's claim. 
Many of the impressive statistics came about in the second half as the Irish found themselves trailing 52-57 with 
11:15 remaining. That's when Sophomore Beth Morgan decided recess was over and proceeded to score 18 points in the final 10 minutes of the game. 
On offense, Notre Dame had plenty of options with hot shooting from the
.. 
perimeter as well as power in the inside game. Morgan hit 4 three pointers and finished the game with 29 points, includ­ing a 9-11 performance from the foul line. Freshman Mollie Peirick could not miss as she hit 3 for 3 to finish with 6 points in addition to contributing 6 rebounds and a total of six assists and steals.
• 
Inside the paint, the Irish utilized their height advantage as 6'3" Katryna Gaither had a field goal field day hitting 
• HOCKEY 
'Skins teach about reality 
By MICHAEL DAY Sports Wrirer 
The bitter taste of reality. 
The Notre Dame hockey team confi­dently strutted into Miami of Ohio this weekend coming off their best game of the year and playing their top hockey of the season. However, the dream came to an abrupt end, as the Irish fell 8-5 on Friday and 5-3 on Saturday to dash all hopes of a resurgence in the CCHA. 
Notre Dame performed their best Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde imitation on Friday night, looking like zombies in the first two periods before waking up to play like gang busters for the final period of the contest. 
"We gave them some easy opportuni­ties early on, and they took advantage of them," said head coach Ric Schafer. "They got a couple of soft goals early." 
In front of 8119 fans at Cincinnati Gardens, Miami came ready to play and built a commanding 6-1 lead after 40 minutes of play. 
But the alarm clock finally went off, and the Redskins found out that Notre Dame did indeed have a pulse. The Irish reeled off three consecutive goals to tighten the game at 6-4. Junior left wing Jamie Morshead, junior center Jay Matushak, and sophomore left wing 
see REALITY I page 17 


14 of 17 attempts for a total of 28 points. Co-captain Carey Poor regis­tered 8 points and found the open player 6 times to assist for the buckets. 
The second half hot shooting was key to the victory on Saturday as Loyola 
showed increasing momentum after halftime. 
"Our kids showed a lot of poise and didn't get rattled when Loyola went ahead," McGraw said, "We stuck with 
see SCRAMBLIN' page 17 


of note.
Belles feast on Cougars
-
The Saint Mary's basketball team defeated 
Check tomorrow for results of 
Concordia, 77-53, last Thursday. 
weekend fencing action 
see page 17 
Saint Mary's Basketball 






