
Monday, October 2, 1995• Vol. XXVII No. 31 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Arrests, fires, chaos follow Ohio State victory 

Observer Staff Report 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 
Police made 4 7 arrests early Sunday and used tear gas to break up unruly crowds cele­brating Ohio State's football victory over Notre Dame. 
Those arrested in the cam­pus-area disturbance were charged with disorderly con­duct, rioting or resisting arrest. 
No officers were hurt, said police Lt. Jerry Tidall. There were no reports of civilian in­juries. 
The unrest was concentrated in the area around North High Street and Summit Ave, said Sgt. Joseph Schrader. 
There was an undetermined amount of property damage, but no major damage was re­ported. Bottles, litter, mat­tresses and other debris cov­ered streets near campus. 
The Buckeyes defeated the Fighting Irish 45-26 Saturday afternoon in the first football game between the schools since 1936. 
Schrader classified the event as a "large civil disturbance." Things were relatively quiet 
University commissions firm to review campus jobs 
By MEGAN McGRATH 
News Writer 
In an effort to improve work­ing conditions for Notre Dame's support staff, the Department of Human Hesources has commissioned a consulting firm to evaluate job descriptions and possibly restructure the classification process. 
The Department announced their plans to university em­ployees this week. At a Gender Studills forum Thursday, Sept. 21, professors Jean Porter and Teresa Ghilarducci discussed several of the problems facing support staff at the University. In addition to the relatively low pay, which starts below that of most other jobs on campus, a main issue discussed was the way in which secretaries are categorized. 
"The University is not satis­fied with the classification sys­tem," said Hoger Mullins, Director of Human Hesources. 
"For that reason we have commissioned a study of the system to take place in the next six to nine months." 
According to Human Re­sources, the consulting firm of Towers Perria has been brought in to evaluate the clas­sification of University support staff. Mullins also anticipates using extensive staff input. 
"We are planning to put to­gether staff committees so we can get their assessment and involvement in the process." Mullins said. "We will be sit­ting down with staff, listening to their ideas and finding out what changes they'd imple­ment." 
At the forum, several secre­taries and department chairs expressed frustration with the current system. Under the sys­tem, secretaries are placed into one of five categories. How­ever, many claimed that mov­ing between categories was too 
see STAFF I page 6 
until campus bars closed around 2 a.m. Sunday, police said. The mayhem started after an undetermined number of bar patrons moved into the streets. 
Police dressed in riot gear used tear gas at least four times to break up crowds. Officers on horseback also were used to disperse people. 
Notre Dame students re­ported similar tactics were used Friday night, with little warn­ing. 
Senior Mary Plumb said po­lice attempted to clear students from a crowded bar. 

"We were chanting back and forth (with Ohio State students) but it was all in good fun, no one seemed angry," she said. "It didn't seem out of control." 
Then without warning Plumb said, tear gas began to fill the bar. 
"The cop just dropped a canister. It felt like I inhaled shards of glass. I just started coughing and wanted to cough more." 
Police could not confirm the use of tear gas on Friday night. About a dozen fires were set 
early Sunday in trash bins. When firefighters tried to reach them, some people threw rocks and bottles at firefighters and police, said police Sgt. Kevin Justice. Many of the fires could not be reached and burned themselves out. 
About 100 State Highway Pa­trol troopers, 70 Franklin County sheriffs deputies, 70 city police officers and 40 cam­pus police attempted to control the crowds. 
The Associated Press and News Editor Dave Tyler con­tributed to this report. 

Dashing for dollars 

Students participate in Lewis Hall's three mile race to help raise money for breast cancer research. 


Manley: Managers crucial 
By MELANIE LAFLIN 
Assistant News Editor 
Managers might have a lot to learn from Johnny Appleseed, sewing random seeds as oppor­tunities for employees to culti­vate their own ideas, according to Martin Manley, former U.S. Assistant Secretary of Labor. 
In an attempt to bring experts in the area of participatory management to Notre Dame to address both students and fac­ulty, the Donnelly Lecture Se­ries presented its eighth annual lecturer, Manley, this past Fri­day in the Jordan Auditorium. 
Speaking on participation, ownership, and performance, Manley suggested professional partnerships among colleagues play an important part of the management model. 
"My expnrience as a machin­ist on the shop floor, my deal­ings with trade unions, and holding a senior government position has shown me that professional partnerships among colleagues are vital to a productive business atmo­sphere," stated Manley. 
According to Manley, most traditional businesses can learn from service industries such as 

The Observer/David Murphy 

Martin Manley gave six reasons why businesses should learn from ser­vice industries. He spoke at the Jordan Auditorium on Friday as part of Notre Dame's Donnelly Lecture Series. 
six key reasons why businesses views before entering a firm. should learn from this service "Management's role of re-environment. ·warding the development of 
"First, talented people must become the DNA of the organi­zation," stated Manley. This is achieved through investing massively in hiring. According to Manley, the present value of a hiring decision is one million, whereas a bad decision can be skills and not just results is also key," said Manley. Communi­cation skills, client develop­ment, and critical thinking are all tricks of the trade. 
"Socialization within the or­ganization is a powerful man­agement tool. With the same 

Fuentes evaluates U.S., Latin American relations 
By KARA PAVLIK 
News Writer 
Carlos Fuentes, an interna­tionally acclaimed author, now finds himself assuming the role of a political figure in the quest for peace in Latin America. 
Kicking ofT Saint Mary's week long celebration of multi­culturalism, Fuentes gave a speech in O'Laughlin Auditorium Saturday night entitled "U.S. and Latin America: A Shared Continent." 
Fuentes' three fold speech dealt with the history between Latin America and the United States, the regions' cultural dif­ferences and similarities, and post cold war policies regard­ing economic, political and social change. 
"The history of relations has been a vast asymmetry of power," Fuentes said. Tradi­tionally the United States has been perceived as strong, whereas Latin America was looked at as weak. But Latin America wants to be on equal terms with the United States. 
"Latin America was rarely seen in the Cold War years," problems created by history need to be forgotten." 
Key among establishing bet­ter relations between the re­gions according to Fuentes: people need to realize that Latin America and the United States share a long and rich cultural background. Both have a common culture con­sisting of Native American his­tory. art, literature, religion, and self-government. 
But in the establishment of this common culture, impor­tant groups were left out. And minority groups, such as women, have been limited tin the United States' Anglo-Saxon history: "The United States is not truly modern if it it does not include what was there at the creation. It's a tragic irony that history and happiness rarely coincide," says Fuentes. 
In effect, with the Cold War over, Latin America and the United Sates are beginning to "shed the burden of history" and create an inclusive rather than an exclusive society. An openness to mutual richness will lead society. politics and the economy in a direction 
advertising agencies, law or worth two million. In the ser-experiences and identical said Fuentes. "Now that the toward which the world can be consulting firms, and govern­vice sector, employees receive Cold War has debased, cultural ment institutions. Manley gave between ten and twenty inter-see MANLEY/ page6 diversities need to be forgotten, see FUENTES I page 6 

page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Monday, October 2, 1995 
• WORlD AT A GLANCE 
Oprah makes elite list of richest Americans 
• INSIDE COLUMN 


Next time bring yourgas masks 
Forget the cameras and leave your road maps at home. Next time you plan on being in Columbus, Ohio, you'd probably be better off bringing a gas mask. 
Ohio may be "the heart of it all," but you certain­ly couldn't decribe the 
.police detail patrolling Columbus' High Street early Saturday morning as "all heart." During the pre-game revelry, the officers entered many of the bars lining the popular, college-crowd street, dropped pepper spray and ran. They then proceeded to ignore many of the choking, coughing stu­dents left in their wake. 
The mass of confused ND/OSU fans were herded like cattle from one comer to the next as the police continued to pepper spray them. 
Then they sent in the riot police, dressed head to toe in black, billy clubs in hand. 
Up till now, the closest I've ever gotten to riot police is CNN and Tiananmen Square. So, if what I witnessed on High Street was a riot, I've been leading a secretly wild life all these years and haven't even realized it. Wait till mom hears this. 
Granted, I missed the bar brawls and garbage dumpster burning this weekend. I never saw the people throwing bottles and rocks at police cruisers. I wasn't accosted or cursed at. I never felt like I was in serious danger. 
Maybe I'm blind and deaf. But on Friday night, when they gassed the bars in the area of Mean Mr. Mustard's, I don't think I'm too wrong when I say a little advance "'arning was called for. I'm assuming this was for our own good. They were probably protect­ing us. (From ourselves, perhaps?) But if you're going to do us that kind of favor, clue us in. By 1:30 a.m., the street was one big coughing, confused mess. A lot of people could have been seriously injured, if not stunned temporarily. Not only from the gas, but from the resulting chaos and general sense of panic. 
I watched as students asked one officer for an ambulance; a girl was having difficulty breathing-difficulty way beyond that caused by riot squad gas. He was quick to inform the students that he had been "in the van" and had little to do with the events of the evening. Then, without even seeing the girl, he added that an ambulance was unneces­sary ("Just fan her"). Gee, thanks. 
We can complain about S.U.D.S all we want. But none of us can ever say that we've been gassed in or around the properties of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's by our own ·police force. ND Security might get on our nerves every once and a while, but when it comes down to it, they're here to help us­not hurt us. After seeing what went on in Columbus this weekend, I have to say that ND Security has our best interests at heart. 
The Linebacker may get packed every so often, but you never see the place surround­ed by men and women in riot gear. You never see a cop every ninety feet or gangs of overzealous freshman setting dumpsters on fire. We can walk back and forth from Turtle Creek and College Park without watching our backs. To put it simply, we can feel safe here, comforted by the knowledge that we are surrounded by responsible people. And safe is a good feeling to have. I can only hope that Notre Dame stays as safe forever. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


Krista Nannery Accent Editor 
• TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Viewpoint  
Kristi Kolski  Christina Cannon  
Bill Connoly  Production  
Sports  Kira Hutchinson  
Rafael Gonzalez  Jana Bruder  
David Bradley  Lab Tech  
Graphics  Katie Kroener  
Tom Roland  Tom Johannesen  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• INDIANA WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
Monday, Oct. 2 Accu-Weather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Monday, Oct. 2. 
OHIO 
llndianapoli3 76° I 
ILL. 
• 


FRONTS: 

.........-r~~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
P1BS8Uf9 

HL B~ITII 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS 
KY. 


VMAssocfatadPress 

Atlanta 76 58 Dallas 92 72 Minneapolis 70 52 Beverly Hills, Ml 72 51 Denver 64 36 New Orleans 85 64 Boston 59 45 Detroit 75 52 New York 65 53 Chicago 75 55 Los Angeles 64 62 Philadelphia 69 53 Columbus 76 52 Miami 88 72 Phoenix 90 65 
~,~,~~~~ (f ~ciA 
ShoweJS T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy VIa Associated Pross Graph/csNet 0 1995 AccuWeather, Inc. 
NEW YORK 
Soon it may be Oprah with nine O's. 
In Forbes magazine's 1995list of the 400 richest Americans, Oprah Winfrey stands at No. 399. Although she has a considerable way to go, she's en route to be­coming America's first black billionaire, the magazine said in its Oct. 16 issue, released Sunday. 
Microsoft Corp. Chairman Bill Gates, whose accom­plishments this year included fmally introducing Windows 95 and turning the Stones into software pitch­men, held the top spot for the second consecutive year. Forbes put Gates' net worth at about $14.8 billion. 
Investor Warren Buffett again assumed the No. 2 slot, this year at roughly $11.8 billion. His bottom line was boosted by about $400 million after The Walt Disney Co. offered $19 billion for Capital Cities/ABC Inc., one of Buffett's longtime holdings. 
Winfrey, the only entertainer on the annual list, is worth about $340 million, which Forbes said put her just ahead of New York money manager Leon Levy. The 41-year-old Chicagoan owns her top-rated talk show and production company, Harpo (Oprah spelled back­ward), and holds a big stake in the show's distributor, King World Productions Inc. 
Winfrey's coffers will continue to grow as she benefits from five-year deals for "The Oprah Winfrey Show" signed last year with 210 television stations, plus a six­film commitment from ABC and King World stock op· tions. She also plans to become a Hollywood producer. 
Dam Gates Cofounder of Microsoft Corp. $14.8 billion 
fJ Warren Buffett Stock market guru $11.8 billion 
IIJohn Kluge Founder of Metromedia $6.7 billion IIPaul Allen With Gates, started Microsoft $6.1 billion 

1!1 Sumner Redstone CEOViacom $4.8 billion 
1!1 Richard DeVos Partner in Amway Corp. $4.3 billion IJ Jay Van Andel Partner in Amway; owns Orlando Magic $4.3 billion 
I!J Samuel Newhouse Jr. Publishing, cable 'TV magnate $4.3 billion 
Ill Donald Newhouse Publishing, cable TV magnate $4.3 billion 
Dole may settle for tax cut 
WASHINGTON 
Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole, expressing surprise at the opposition of some Republican conservatives, said Sunday he might have to give ground on the GOP plan to cut taxes by $245 billion. "There's been some indications even from conservative Republicans ... that maybe we shouldn't try to go all the way to $245 billion," Dole, R-Kan., 

said on CBS' "Face the-Nation.""Will it be $245 billion? I'm not certain at this point. "But House Speaker Newt Gingrich, R-Ga., speaking on ABC's "This Week With David Brinkley," noted that Dole and other Senate lead­ers had voted for the $245 billion cut and said, "I think the Senate frankly is honor bound to deliver on it."Gingrich said it would be "virtually impossible" to win House approval of a smaller cut. The tax reduction plan, a cornerstone of House Republicans' "Contract With America," has been hammered by Democrats. 
Jet skier dies over Niagara Falls 
NIAGARA FALLS, Ontario 
A 39-year-old stuntman who tried to ride over Niagara Falls on a Jet Ski and parachute to safety plunged to his death on Sunday after the parachute failed to open, police said. Robert Overacker of Camarillo, Calif., went over the brink of the Niagara River's Canadian Horseshoe Falls at about 12:35 p.m., as several other people filmed the stunt. Overacker, a graduate of a California stunt school, had a device strapped to his back that included a rocket for lifting him off the Jet Ski and a parachute that had to be opened manually. The contrap­tion failed to work. He fell180 feet to the water below, according to Niagara Falls Park Police dispatcher Tom Detenbeck. "It's like hitting cement." Overacker wasn't breathing when he was lifted from the water, and was pronounced dead on arrival at Niagara General Hospital. "I hate to see these stunters try things," said Lawrence McGinn, the assistant general manager for Maid of the Mist, which sent a boat out to recover the body. "I think the falls is going to win most of the time." 
Strikers clash with police in Detroit 
DETROIT 
Police and guards clashed with picketers outside two Detroit Newspapers distribution centers early Sunday, and at least 17 people were arrested. "Obviously things have escalated," said deputy police chief Benny Napoleon. "We've had several fires, several incendiary devices explode .... Things are definitely getting a little more heated, no question." At least two officers suffered minor injuries when they were struck by picket signs, and the union said four protesters were injured. The clashes followed peaceful protests late Saturday at two printing plants. Last weekend, police dismantled a home­made bomb outside a distribution center. Six unions rep­resenting 2,500 employees struck on July 13 after man­agement refused to extend contracts during negotiations. Detroit Newspapers oversees business operations at The Detroit News, owned by Gannett Co. Inc., and the Detroit Free Press, owned by Knight-Ridder Inc. The main issues are wages and staffmg levels. The newspapers are pub­lishing with managers and replacement workers. 
Possible Powell run divides GOP 
WASHINGTON 
The allure of Colin Powell to Republicans hungry for an inspirational standard-bearer has ignited squabbling among party conservatives, who are deeply split over whether to welcome or disparage the popular retired general. Powell's emergence also revives a debate over whether the GOP should be a "big tent" welcoming a va­riety of views or should hold to a firm conservative ideol­ogy that was solidified with the party's takeover of the House and Senate last fall. Even though Powell remains cagey about whether he will actually run for president, many Republican activists are aghast that fellow conserv­ative stalwarts are urging him into the party's nomina­tion process. Eyeing opinion polls that show Powell would run strongly in the GOP field, they worry he might attract Republican voters who don't even agree with him on issues like abortion, affirmative action and welfare. Powell has expressed moderate views on those questions that appear out of step with the party's congressional momentum. 

----~----------~ 
Monday, October 2, 1995 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
• STUDENT ACTIVITIES COUNCIL 
SMC celebrates tenth Council plans Women's Week year of Women's Studies 
By Donna Mirandola News writer 
Saint Mary's College Student Academic Council (SAC) dis­cussed plans for Women's Week at last night's meeting. The date for the week is set to be February 5-9. 
Women's Week is important in order to "Bring issues that effect women to the forefront," according tC? SAC Chairwoman 



Deloitte&ToucheConsultingGroup 
''At Deloitte & Touche Consulting Group, we partner with clients to create change that produces results, results that show on our clients' top and ~ottom lines." 
Deloitte & Touche Consulting Group is an international management consulting firm providing creative solutions to major clients in a variety 
of industries.  
• Manufacturing  • Corporate Strategy  
• Health Care  • Reengineering  
• Automotive  • Information Technology  
• Construction  • Litigation  
• Government I Non-profit  • Outsourcing  

We are currently seeking energetic and talented individuals to join our Business Analyst and Systems Analyst Programs in the Detroit Office. We are looking for candidates with a high level of achievement who possess both strong quantitative and interpersonal skills. We hope you will consider this challenging and rewarding opportunity to perform exciting and important work in the global business arena. 
Please bring a resume and join us for our campus presentation. 
Hacquel Mitchell. 
Each day during the week will be filled with different activities concerning women's issues. Activities planned include an aerobics for charity night, a movie night featuring The Joy Luck Club and a night of female bands and singers at Clarissa Dalloway's Coffee House. 
Planned daytime events in­clude a week long Brown Bag 
Cict off it. Exercise. 

SATURDAY, OCTOBER 7 
11:00 AM-STEPAN CENTER 
.., ... .'  3 & 6 MILE RUNS AND PANCAKE BREAKFAST  '.·  I  :  
T-SHIRTS TO ALL FINISHERS  

REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS $5.00 IN ADVANCE & $6.00 DAY OF RACE STUDENT AND STAFF DIVISIONS 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL RECSPORTS AT 1-610 
Tuesday, October 3 The University Club -Main Lounge 7:30-9:30P.M. 
Lunch series featuring Saint Mary's College professors speaking on various issues still to be announced. 
The South Bend Police De­partment will offer a self-de­fense instruction course featur­ing a trained self-defense squad. 
SAC secretary, Dorie Wilkey remarked that the sessions are very important because, "some really effective techniques are taught." 
Upcoming SAC events include the Lecture Series on Novem­ber 8, at 7:00 in Stapleton Lounge featuring St. Patrick's College student, Katharine O'Shea. Also, the Choosing a Major Night will be sponsored by the Career Counseling De­partment. 
' 
,.
/\mcncan.~.k_art ~ /\ssocidtlOib~ 
F1ghtmg Haan 01sease ana Stroke 
The Most 
hnpotiant 
Instrument in 
the Treatment 


BY LESLIE FIELD 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary's College Women's Studies Department celebrated its tenth anniversary last night in Stapleton Lounge by having one of its founders, Dr. Penny Jameson, speak about her career during and after her twenty years at Saint Mary's, focusing on the topic "Personal as Political." 
Professor Gail Mandell, who has worked with Jameson since the early 1970's, said, "It was­n't her [Jameson's] credentials, but the quality of her being that impressed me. It was the way that she could energize a group." 
As a Stanford graduate with further education from the Uni­versity of Wisconsin, Jameson joined the Saint Mary's faculty in 1970. Without a textbook, she taught the course, "The Psychology of Women." At this point, she realized that little re­search focused on women's psychology. Faculty members Ann Clark and Sister Miriam Cooney agreed with Jameson's belief that Saint Mary's College needed a Women's Studies De­partment. 
After further research and planning by Jameson, she sub­mitted a Lily Grant entitled, "Women for the Year 2000." By 1985, the Women's Studies Department was officially in place, putting Saint Mary's ahead of other colleges that did not yet have Women's Studies Departments. During her time at Saint Mary's, Jameson also 
Contract declared between 
U.S. Post Office and unions 
By KEVIN GALVIN 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 

A federal arbitration board announced Sunday a new four­year contract between the U.S. Postal Service and a union, af­fecting about 365,000 employ­ees. 
The board's decision, which is final. provides two lump-sum payments, a pair of 1.2 percent raises, and annual cost-of-liv­ing adjustments beginning in the second year. 
It also reduces night-shift 


NoTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE PRESENTS 
TRANSLATED AND DIRECTED BY REV. DAVID GARRICK, C.S.C. 
WEDNESDAY, OCT. 4 ••• 8:00 P.M. fRIDAY, OCT. 6 ........... 8:00 P.M. THURSDAY, OCT. 5 ...... 8:00 P.M. SATURDAY, OCT. 7 ••.... 8:00 P.M. SuNDAY, Ocr. 8 ...•.•.•. 2:30P.M. 
PLAYING AT WASHINGTON HALL • RESERVED SEATS $8 STUDENT AND SENIOR CITIZEN DISCOUNTS 
TICKETS AU AVAILAILE AT THE DOOR OR IN ADVANCE AT THE LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER TICKIT OFFICE. MASTERCARD AND VISA ORDUS CALL 631-8128 
pay, but provides a separate one-time payment to employees represented by the American Postal Workers Union who worked the night shift in fiscal 1995. 
"We had hoped to achieve a negotiated agreement with the APWU, but were unsuccessful and were compelled to follow the arbitration process," Post­master General Marvin Hunyon said. "It's time to move for­ward together and get on with the business of meeting the challenges of competition."· 
established the Justice Educa­tion Department and the Early Childhood Development Center. 
Five years after the Women's Studies Department's official recognition, Jameson left Saint Mary's to pursue her second PhD in Clinical Psychology at the University of Utah. 
For the past four years, Jameson has been studying female students in higher edu­cation. She discussed some of her own experiences as a stu­dent, which, even in the 1990's, have been sexist. She contin­ues to research reasons behind this inequality and ways to address it. She stated that many societal problems sur­round women and their roles in the family and society at large, addressing the topic of "Personal as Political," and how critical this relationship is to our culture. 
Today, the Woman's Studies Department is doing well, ac­cording to Department Coordi­nator Susan Alexander. Phyllis Kmainski, a current teacher of the Introduction to Women's Studies Class, discussed the self designed Women's Studies Ma­jor that students can partici­pate in. 
Students also speak highly of the department, as many of them minor in Women's Stud­ies. Junior Kristina Campbell stated, "It is an interesting mi­nor and a very good way to get a different slant on literature and history, especially. Wom­en's experiences are generally left out of typical survey class­es.'" 
page4 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday. October 2,1995 

Dexter's not his usual selr. 
You suspect the salsa. 
So you call Dr. Nusblatt, your family vet back home. 
The call is cheap. (Too bad about the consultation fee.) 
Live off campus? Sign up for xm:f True Reach Savingss'• and save 25% 

no ntatter who, how, when or where 
you call in the U.S. 
J_ 

Life can be complicated. AT&T True Reach SavingssM is simple. Save 25% on every kind of call on your AT&T phone bill-direct dial, calling card, directory assistance, local toll, cellular, fax and modem ­when you spend just $25 a mont:lt No other plan gives you all these different ways to savE'* Just call1800 TRUE-ATT to sign up. Save on every call. That's Your True Choice.sM 





AT&T 

Your True Choice 
•Refers to long distance calls billed to Alli:T home or A'!&TCalling Card accounts. Disn>unts off A'I&T basic rates. Certain exclusions apply. Subject to billing availability. Offer available to residential A1&Tcustomers: Minimum spending requirement is per residential line. ..Compared to major long distance carriers. c;> 1995 AJ&T 
Monday, October 2, 1995 The Observer • WILSON QUITS page 5 



Governor preaches GOP unity 
By JOHN HOWARD 
Associated Press 
PALM DESERT, Calif. 
A day after he folded his debt-riddled presidential cam­paign, Pete Wilson on Saturday urged California Republicans to unite, capture the Legislature and purge Democrat-backed GOP dissidents. 
The Hepublican governor, seeking to make peace with the GOP's rank-and-file who were angered with his presidential bid, suggested he would cam­presidential election. paign on behalf of his party's "Nothing is more important candidates and help raise party for California than achieving funds during his remaining united Republican majorities in 
three years as governor. He declined to talk to reporters following his address. 
Wilson told more than 1,000 Republican activists at the state party's fall convention that his highest priorities were captur­
.ing the Legislature for the GOP and delivering California's 54 Electoral College votes to Republicans in next year's 

SUNDAY, OCfOBER 1 & SUNDAY, OCfOBER 8 
• MUST HAVE RIDDEN A HORSE AT LEAST ONCE • • TRANSPORTATION PROVIDED • 
r ~·$1S.fPiN• r ~ 
BUS DEPARTS  RETURN  
LIBRARY CIRCLE  RmE  TO CAMPUS  
10/1  10:15  11:00  12:30  
10/1  11:45  12:30  2:00  
10/8  10::15  11:00  1:30  
10/8  12:15  1:00  2:30  

REGISTER& PAY IN ADVANCE MAXIMUM NUMBER PER RIDE IS 5 . ' fOU MOUE INfO CALL UECSI'OUTS:1T6.H-61011 
the Senate and Assembly," he said, promising to back recall elections for renegade Republicans, such as former Assembly Speaker ·Doris Allen "and any other turncoat who is tempted to put personal gain ahead of principle and the Republican agenda." 
Allen, a Republican, served briefly as speaker with votes delivered by Democratic Leader Willie Brown. She faces a recall in eight weeks. 
Wilson apparently was refer­ring to the current speaker, Assemblyman Brian Setencich, a Fresno Republican and Allen protege, when he spoke of "any other turncoat." Setencich was elected in the closely divided, 80-member house with Democratic votes, plus his own and Allen's. 
Wilson's often-squeaky voice 

"'did not falter once during his 20-minute address, and he appeared far more relaxed and animated than in recent days. In a last-minute scheduling change that caught state party officials by surprise, Wilson appeared earlier Saturday before 150 members of county Republican committees. They have been among Wilson's most vocal critics, upset that the California governor's political hopes could leave the state in the hands of a Democratic lieu­tenant governor. 


The 0 tlserver 
is hosting: 
The Observer Writing Workshop 
Wednesday, October 4@ 8:00p.m. in the Foster Room, 3rd Floor LaFortune. 
All new and old Observer News and Accent writers welcome. 
7~~~~~,4~~ 




CAREER DAY 1995 
Friday, October 6 10~00 am ~ 4:00 pm Atrium of the College of Business Administration Building Complex 
Please pick up a brochure in the College of Business Administration Building Complex for session times and company listings. 

Wilson quits 1996 race, first to drop from field 
By jOHN KING 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Out of money and trailing 

~adly even in his home state, California Gov. Pete Wilson abandoned his bid for the 1996 Republican presidential nomi­nation Friday, saying he could not in good conscience pile up a huge debt. 
"As much as your hearts and mine tell me to fight on, my conscience tells me that to do so would be unfair to all of us," Wilson said at a Sacramento rally. "To go on would simply be to run up an unacceptable debt." 
Wilson made his decision late Thursday after being told he would have to borrow to keep his debt-laden campaign alive, and even then be able to run just a bare-bones operation. He called top supporters around the country Friday morning to inform them he would quit the race just one month and one day after he formally jumped in. 
"I hope I haven't let you down," he told his supporters. "I blame no one but myself. This is my campaign." 
He was the first declared 1996 hopeful to bow out. 
"He absolutely would have made a fantastic president," said Bruce Benson, the former Colorado Republican chairman and a member of Wilson's finance team. "But you've got to at some point face up and bite the bullet ... When you start that late, it's hard to get the momentum up." 
As they ushered him out of the field, politely, most ·of the remaining GOP hopefuls sug­gested they stood to gain. 
Conservative commentator Pat Buchanan noted that he also had put curbs on immi­gration and affirmative action atop his social agenda. Texas 
My Fashion Secret? 

Goodwill. 

Who sa1d that morder to look good you had to spend alot of money? Goodwill carries all the Brand Name clothing you like,but without the brand new prices.We have the same large, 
quality selection of clothing that you would find in the mall. ..but at a ~~~jy price that will 
~ keep you coming back, looking good, 
and impressing friends. So, the next time you need a particular outfit, or you're just looking for something different, give us atry. You'll find there's something for everyone 
at Goodwill. 

GOP race for the White House 
/~-~·-.. ··. • :~~~~~dout 
a·-~ presidential race: 
·, 

)CGov. Pete Wllaon, C81Homla: Friday became lhe first candidate to drop out. 
..fSenate Majority Leader Bob Dole: Officially announced his candidacy -his third -on April 10. 
..fRep. Robert Dornan, California: Officially announced his candidacy on Aprll13.
..fSen.Richard Lugar, Indiana: Officially announced his presidential candidacy Aprll19. 
.jSen. Arlen Specter, Pennaylvanla:FaiiOIS abortion rlghle, announced March 30. 
.fAlan Keye~~: Mld·level Reaganatlmlnistratlon State Department official 
announced March 26. · 
..fPat Buchanan: Conservative 
commentator who challenged Bush In the 1992 announced March 20. 
..fFormerTennessae Gov. Lamar 
Alexander: The Bush administration 
education secretary formally announced 
Feb. 28. 
..fSen. Phil Gramm, Texas: Formally announced Feb. 24. 
..fSteve Forbes: Publishing magnate,announced la8t week. 
Sen. Phil Gramm released a list of his conservative support in California, and suggested he now had as good a chance as anyone to win the state's March primary -if the nomi­nation isn't already decided by then. 
Former Tennessee Gov. Lamar Alexander, who perhaps had the most to lose from any early Wilson success, noted that he was now the only GOP candidate who has run a state. 
The GOP front-runner, Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole, had little to say, save call­ing the governor a longtime friend. Dole's campaign said it hoped to ultimately win Wilson's support, and noted its big lead in California primary polls. 
California is critical to President Clinton's re-election hopes, and his advisers had been thrilled at Wilson's early troubles. 
Clinton reacted with disbelief whim told of Wilson's decision. 
"No, are you sure?" he asked during a picture-taking session in the Oval Office. 
"I respect the judgment that he would make or anyone would make under the circum­stances, since I've been through iC' Clinton said. 
Wilson's abrupt decision ends a campaign that started with considerable promise, if for no other reason than his standing as governor of the nation's largest state, a proven fund­raiser fresh from a come-from­behind re-election win. 
But those assets, ironically, became Wilson's biggest prob­lems. He had pledged not to seek the presidency if re-elect­ed, and breaking that promise cost him dearly. Not only did California voters voice their resentment, but Wilson found it hard to raise money from back­ers who dug deep last year to return him to Sacramento and expected him to stay there. 
"Californians elected Wilson to be governor," said California pollster Mervin Field. "They felt his pledge not to run was important. When he decided to run, he just lost them." And any credibility to the argument that he was the Republican best suited to beat Clinton. 
Wilson also was an awkward fit with conservative GOP pri­mary voters because of his sup­port for abortion rights. 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Monday, October 2, 1995 
pressed respect for Human Re­"I would endorse the idea, street." Until the debt crisis, 
sources and the administration and the University would agree, Mexico pumped nearly $50 bil­


Fuentes

for moving in such a direction. that all staff are paid without 
lion into the U.S. economy.

"I think the study is a positive regard to gender," Mullins And workers from Mexico har­
continued from page 1first step," Porter said. said. However. Ghilarducci 

vest 90 percent of all crops in 

"However. it's important to stressed at the forum that na­
changed, Fuentes said. California. According to evaluate these positions often. tionally, jobs which employ a Although Mexico's debt crisis Fuentes, if all of Mexico's ille­
There also needs to be room for female majority tend to make gal immigrants returned home,
of the 1990s has provoked aflexibility of movement once less than those dominated by crisis of confidence throughout harvests would be non-exis­someone is in their position." men. 
the nation, it has had little tent. He added that the "pil­Another imp'ortant issue Jor "The University is showing bearing on each individual grims came to Plymouth Rock Ghilarducci and Porter is the concern about the low pay, but Mexican's life: in Mexico, 1.5 without visas and work per­number of women occupying I don't think they see it as a million citizens live in poverty. mits." 
secretarial roles. gender issue," Ghllarducci By the year 2000, it is esti­
"The University needs to said, stressing that the point of 
mated that Latin America's Today-with the break down 
make a concerted effort to the forum was not to charge 
population will increase until of communism-there is a 
break up what has become a Notre Dame with discrimina­there are two Latin Americans movement toward politicalghetto in the support staff and tion. but to raise its awareness for every one American. With change. Latin America is de­hire more men," Porter said. of the experience of women in a growing distinction between pending less on governmentAccording to information dis­support positions. "We need to 
the wealthy and the poor, from "the top and from the tributed at the lecture, 97.7 change institutions within a 
Mexico needs the support of center." Grass-roots organiza­
percent of the academic sup­culture where women's labor in the United States. tions are slowly attaining polit­port staff are female. not always highly valued." But support is a "two-way ical power from the outskirts and encounter uphill fights to
the same time," said Manley. ize control, but it is critical to Manley. be able to succeed in try and solve the economic cri­Examples of increasing em­success," stated Manley. this changing economy. 
sis.

ployees' capacity to perform "Businesses must realize em­Still, the United States andincluded sending a weekly in­For Manley, Johnny ployees are their partners," Latin America share a commonformational video to every em­Appleseed provides the ideal said Manley. 
agenda. Both face problemsployee and providing seminars model, since after Johnny such as crime, violence, andand classes that incorporate throws out his seeds, some will Manley currently heads the drugs. "No one holds the mag­accounting and finance train­work and some won't. Vicksburg Group, a profes­ical solution to social problemsing to its employees. "Lastly, a company needs tto sional consulting firm that as­such as crime, violence andkeep score and constantly cre­sists senior managers in mea­drugs," Fuentes said. "But we"Giving people constant op­ate economic risks and re­suring and enhancing the per­must share common experi­portunities to lead and learn wards," commented Manley. formance of leaders, front-line ences and cooperate the bestmay be difficult for'companies Firms that incorporate these employees, and business part­we can."

that naturally tend to central-six ideals will, according to ners. 
e cs FIRST BosTON 

CAREER OPPORTUNITIES 
CS First Boston, a leading global investment bank, is recruiting for its Financial Analyst program. Positions are available in the Investment Banking Department. 
Staff 
continued from page 1 
difficult, their job descriptions were too rigid and often didn't fit the tasks secretaries actually performed. 
"There's nothing more frus­trating than having a secretary who's excellent in every way, who learns new skills and has great person to person skills," Theology chair Larry Cunning­ham said after the forum. "But she can't better herself within her job description unless she moves up a rank, and often that involves leaving the depart­ment." · 
Ghilarducci and Porter ex-
Manley 
continued from page 1 
orientation, employees. have something in common. The problem with labor/manage­ment partnerships lies in its lack of shared experiences," said Manley. 
Both the Marine Corp and the Catholic Church, known for "shaping its members for a long period of time," were used as examples of taking advantage of the value of socialization. 
"Opening the books and giv­ing all employees access to in­formation gives people the ba­sic business literacy to get things done while learning at 


EDUCATION 

FOR THE REALWORID 
Graduate degree programs (MA, Ph.D) in International Affairs with an emphasis on contemporary policy-relevant issues. 
Area and Functional Fields: 0 Interamerican Studies 
(including U.S.-Latin 
American Relations) 0 European Studies 0 Post-Soviet Studies 0 Comparntive Development 0 International Business 0 International Economics 0 International Health 
Policy 0 International Relations Theory 0 International Security and Conflict 0 Foreign Policy Analysis 
Apply by February 1 for assistantships and other financial aid. 
North•SouthCenter 
lJNIYIIJITT Of MIAMI 
Students who are interested in Interamerican issues are particularly encouraged to apply for North-South Center Graduate Assistantships. 
GRADUATE SCHOOLOF 
INTERNATIONALS1lJDIES 
Admissions, Room #339 Coral Gables, FL 33124-3010 (305) 284-4173 




Monday, October 2, 1995 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
France detonates bomb, despite protests u.s. presses 
By SANDY MaciNTYRE Greenpeace ship around the on Hiroshima in 1945. capital of French Polynesia and Associated Press test site. "This test was destined to the staging area for both the ahead with The French Defense Ministry guarantee for the future the nuclear tests and protesters. PAPEETE said the test on Fangataufa sureness and viability of arms," The environmental group 
Tahiti Ignoring international Atoll measured "less than 110 the ministry said in a state­Greenpeace called the second cease-fire protests, France detonated its kilotons." By comparison, ment. test "an enormous affront" to second nuclear bomb in a France's first test on Sept. 5 The first test drew worldwide the people of the South Pacific. 
By SRECKO lATAL 
month Sunday in the South Pa­was 20 kilotons, slightly larger protest and prompted 1 1/2 "People have the right to feel 
Associated Press 
cific, hours after seizing the last the size of the bomb dropped days of rioting in Papeete, the extremely insulted by the activ­


























ity of the French government," 
SARAJEVO

said Greenpeace spokeswoman U.S. envoy Richard Hoi­
in Papeete, Lynette
Marines seize Gree·npecfce bQ'(lt 
brooke took his peace mission Thorstensen.
;·,,i· .. :~·== ···Mu::,; 
to the third Balkan capital in as Auociated Preu that this canoe came from the first test escalated into a day 
President Jacques Chirac an­
many days Sunday, trying to Manutea.'' and night of riots that left part 
nounced the series of up to 
close the gap between the war­Earlier S undny. French In Paris, the Defense of Tahiti's international airport 
eight tests this summer, saying 
ring sides in the former Yu­Marines seized a Greenpeace Ministry said the Manutea was burned out and dozens of 
they would be finished by the 
goslavia and forge a cease-fire. sailboat outside the 12-mile seized by virtue of a "right of shops and buildings in down.. 
end of May. The tests ended a 
But prospects appeared slim exclusion zone. pursuit" after putting the town Papeete looted and 
three-year moratorium that all 
for a truce in Bosnia anytimeThe direetor of Greenpeace­canoe into the water. The burned. 
the declared nuclear powers 
soon, with government troopsFrance, Penelope Komites, canoe "deliberately penetrat.. In Tahiti, a ranking figure 
but China had honored. 
pressing an offensive in the said in Paris that there was no ed" the exclusion zone, a mill; ,. T!lhiti's pro-indepe11denc.~ 
Chirac argues the tests are 
west and rebel Serbs struggling justification for seizing the istry statement said. , ht: party, Athanas Teriitehau;was 
needed to modernize France's 
to regain lost ground. Manutea, an American-regis­arrested and accused ofta.Jdng . nuclear arsenal and develop Holbrooke met Sunday in tered boat rented by The seizure of the Manutea, part in the riots, his lawyer 
computer test simulation, while 
Zagreb with Croatian President Greenpeace. New Zealand with eight to 10 people aboard, said Saturday. The 1 
critics say the blasts could en­
Franjo Tudjman after in­Greenpeace spokesman crippled Greenpeace,, which Stanley Cross, said 2 . 
courage others to resume test­
conclusive talks with the Michael Szarbo labeled the has headed the anti-nuclear have been jailed on nolt•reiat• 
ing. 
Bosnian government in Sara­Protesters from GreenpeaceFrench action "international 
movement. Its two main ves':r> e(;l charges. 4!R ":!' , 
jevo and Serbian President Slo­piracy." sels, the Rainbow Warrior If>.;±,France has flown 780 
have spent much of the past 
bodan Milosevic, the main But Armed Forces officials in and the MV Greenpeace, were., riot police into 
month in boats trying to enter 
powerbroker in the Balkans. Tahiti said a canoe with three seized before the first test. The · cent 1ur· rntl11'1 
the 12-mile exclusion zone 
"Every time we talk, each people aboard was discovered sailboat Vega was seized last down 
around the two atolls, Mururoa 
side clarifies its views a little,"10 1/2 miles from Mururoa Week. ~f~f i•k)1\o/'f 0UII.U~Ir:>.t·l> ..,..,., ,.,.., 
and Fangataufa, which are 
Holbrooke said before leavingabout 750 miles from Papeete.
and ''the Marines ... noticed Demonstrations after tlif~; 
Belgrade, the Serbian capital, for Zagreb. "But while both sides say 
they want to stop the fighting, Mon.-Fri. 
Hours: 

they haven't agreed on how this would be done. We are
9a.m. -8p.m. 
working very intensively on it."


~ §ll~eCJr IVIlCJz~es c{' 
Sat. 
Holbrooke, an assistant sec­
9a.m. -5p.m. 
retary of state, is trying to
Sun.
"Stylesfor all Walks ofLife" 
build on what Washington con­
11 a.m.-4p.m.
1811 South Bend Ave. • South Bend, IN 46637 
siders the best prospects yet
(219) 271-7674 
for ending the war. The war­ring parties agreed last week 
Walk-ins 
(, Come IDBefore Welcome 
in New York on a power-shar­ing scheme for a future govern­
'.\\ Break & Get A 2oz. r---~Jr~{;-~-4L)~:---, 
ment, although tricky details 
have yet to be resolved. 
' 
Earlier, they agreed to keep
Paul Mitchell
a)\ Paul Mitchell 
Bosnia as a single state, divid­ed roughly in half between the
~[\Product To Take Product 
Bosnian Serbs and a Muslim­Croat federation. Specific terri­torial division will require
(~)·~J: 9a,!!,Y ..!!~~n~~c!p~!ppes. !With Any Service.! 
' Expire•• Oct. 31, 1995 
tough negotiations. 
...-· Same talented staff, with additional stylists to serve you. L------------------------.J 
"As we said many times, the distance separating the two sides is very large on all the basic issues," Holbrooke said. 
Milosevic, in a statement, said a cease-fire was a prereq­uisite for any high-level peace talks, after which "the cease­fire should transform into a 
The Prelaw Society presents: 
How to 
permanent peace." 
Tudjman and Holbrooke dis­cussed the last Serb-held land in Croatia, an eastern stretch
Write an Effective Personal Statement 
bordering Serbia. Holbrooke 
I 

Engagement Rings 
said afterward that rein­tegration of that land into Croatia was critical, but 
10%-15% OFF! 
Officinl Wholesale Price List! 
emphasized that it must be
S.A. Peck & Co. 

peaceful.
55 E. Mbshington, Chicago, IL 60602 
In an early August offensive, 
For a Free 32-Page Color CalaloK
Dean Jack Pratt 
the Croatian army recaptured
1bU-Fne (800) 922-0090 FAX (312) 977-0248 
lnttmtt CDtalog 111 http: l/www. UlfllCl. coml1aptcl 
most of the territory its rebelNotre Dame Law School Serbs had held since 1991. 
University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 
Tuesday 
October 3, 1995 

Angers, France­
7 p.m. 
1996 -1997 Academic Year 
"Should I Stay -or Should I Go1" 
With 

Professor Paul McDowell Tuesday, October 3, 1995 
7:00pm 

Room 117 O'Shaughnessy
101 Notre Dame Law School 
Returningstudents will be on hand to answer Question Au ARE WELCOME/ 
---~--~------~----­
Monday, October 2, 1995

page 8 The Observer • PEACE PACT NEWS 
Israel to start West Bank troop withdrawal 
, 
'r 
r 
I r i f 
~ 
r 
r 
I
r 
r 

EARN CASH by DONATING 
You could earn: 
$30°0after your first plasma donation! 
$15°0  if you donate alone (first visit)  
+$ 5°0  if you show college I.D. (first visit)  
+$1 000  per person if you recrutt someone and they donate  

$30°0 TOTAL! Help Us Save Lives 
Must be 18 years old; proof of current address with photo 1.0. COME TO: HOURS: AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL M-F: 9-6 515 LINCOLNWAY WEST SAT: 8-5 SOUTH BEND, IN 46601-1117 234-6010 

By HILARY APPELMAN offices would be closed next Jewish settlers in the West Associated Press week, and the others within six Bank. About 200 settlers months. burned tires and blocked traffic JERUSALEM Peres repeated Israel's inten­Sunday morning on the bypass 
After 28 years of occupation, tion to have its troops out of six road around Jericho and at an Israel will start withdrawing West Bank towns by the end of army checkpoint before the Al­troops and shutting down the the year. lenby Bridge to Jordan. Eigh­offices of its military govern­This was part of a com­teen protesters were detained. 
ment in the West Bank this promise worked out between The settlers said they were month, Foreign Minister Shi­Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin protesting Israel's plans to mon Peres said Sunday. and PLO chief Vasser Arafat remove army roadblocks and 
The impending transfer of just before they signed an ac­expand the area of Palestinian power set off protests among cord Thursday in Washington self-rule around Jericho. Jeri­Jewish settlers, who accused on expanding Palestinian au­cho, in the Jordan Valley, and 
the Israeli government of aban­tonomy in the West Bank. the Gaza Strip have been au­doning them. Israel has until March 30 to tonomous since May 1994. Peres, speaking to The redeploy troops in the seventh "They lied to us," David 
Associated Press by telephone city, Hebron, where 450 Jewish Elhiani, head of the Jordan from New York, said the troop_ settlers live among 120,000 Valley settlers' council, told withdrawal from the West Bank Palestinians. Israel radio. "We will not allow 
would probably begin "in sev­The transfer-of power in Palestinian police into the Jor­eral weeks." cities and villages will give the dan Valley. We will fight with He said Israel also would shut Palestinians control over almost everything we have." 
down the 12 offices of its mili­a third of the West Bank, which I_srael's parliament is sched­
tary government in the West Israel captured from Jordan in uled to debate the Israel-PLO 
Bank. Shlomo Dror, a the 1967 Mideast War. agreement on Thursday. Peres 
spokesman for the military gov­The Israel-PLO agreement said he expects it to be 
ernment, said the first four faces stiff opposition from approved. 

Senior Rap Up Groups 
S1wnsoreJ by the Center for Social Concerns and Student Governtnent 
, .

So you re a sentor... Excited? Confused? Stressed about the future? Stuclz in a rut? Want to meet more of your classmates? SICK OF THE DINING HALL? 
Join Senior Rap Up Groups !!! 
Once a month your group of 12 seniors will meet for dinner and conversation at a faculty member's home. In a supportive open atmosphere you can reflect on your experiences at Notre Dame and thinl<. about opportunities for the future. 
Sign up THIS WEEK in NDH, SDH, LaFortune, Alumni-Senior Clu1 or the Center for Social Concerns. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Presents: 
MONDAY, OCT. 2 
MONDAY NIGHT LIVE AMTEUR STARSEARCH TALENT NIGHT PLUS 
The kick-off of Trash Con Night. Live musical entertainment: featuring nine· groups from the Chicago area: • DA • BOMB • E·JACK·U·LATION •FLOSH 
• STRAIGHT GIN • MAD CLAN • MS IESHA • MOE-HYPE • BOBBY "'B" • 
Doors open 7:00 p.m. -Shows start at 8:00 p.m. Student I.D. 's required for admission 18 and over. $4.00 cover for an evening of entertainment plus Trash Can options: You want to find live entertain­ment of this variety this side of the east and west coast. Food available. 

·-~~~~ ~­
VIEWPOINT 
Monday, October 2, 1995 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
John Lucas 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Eliuheth Regan Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advenising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ...................... Jen Mackowiak Spans Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Observer Marketing Director....••.... Pete Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notte Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reAect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The n~:WS is reponed as accura[ely and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­rorials represent lhe opinion of che majoricy of lhe Ediror-in-Chief. Managing Edilor, News Ediror, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, lertcrs and Inside Columns present lhe views of lhe authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity ond to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor /Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• AROUND THE WORLD 
South Eastern Asia strict but order is maintained 
VARANUSI, India made our way through Malaysia,l'A That day is it? What time is it at Singapore, and Bali. 
V V school? Did you get a fax? Is For instance, when I picked up the there one for me? How much is water? morning newspaper in Malacia, a Does anyone know the exchange rate coastal town in Malaysia, I was horrified 
~-:J--g___
here? Is that chick-to see a photo of a 
en? =============== 20-meter long
There you have it, python in the folks. A taste of the process of consum­profound topics of ing an adult man.
Myrna
conversation most Not only did the often discussed by tragedy itself appall members of the me, but I was also
MaloneySemester Around surprised that the the World Group media printed a during our second huge photo of it. week of travel. ----========----After observing 
Wait, only two weeks? It feels like the people and places around Malacia, two months. Perhaps this is because the ND Junior Joe Camillus noted that "Even 30 of us have spent those two weeks though Malaysia has been heavily influ­together in every sense of the word. enced by the Chinese and Indian civi­Together, we have been systematically lizations, the Malay people have been herded through customs and air and able to create their own distinct identi­surveillance. Together, we have flown ty." the friendly skies of Singapore Airlines. Following our stay a very hospitable in Malaysia, we family of which we headed south to the Mw feel a part, island nation of eight times. ' A s I was putting out a cig­Singapore -yet Together. we another country
.L-\.arette on the bottom of 
share bus rides, with a style all its 
hotel rooms. my shoe, outside the terminal, own. Even before meals, and taxi our bus driver came over to our plane landed 
cabs, not to men­there, we joked
me, grabbed my arm and led 
tion clothes, sham­about the conse­poo, and laundry me to a trash can to make quences of dropping expenses all the trash on the ground. 
certain that I didn't drop it on 
way. Before we left the r maybe the the ground-a crime which is airport, though, we
Oconcept of time punished by a $500 fine.' found that the laws 
has become surre­there were no al because we laughing matter. have entered new "As I was putting 
time zones in six out of the seven coun­out a cigarette on the bottom of my tries we have been to. shoe, outside the terminal, our bus dri­In spite of our tight confines and ver came over to me, grabbed my arm 
System, he admitted that it was a really
chronic-country hopping, the factor and led me to a trash can to make cer­strict society but that "they are able towhich may be playing the most substan­tain that I didn't drop it on the ground­maintain order because of it. In thetial role in turning weeks into months is a crime which is punished by a $500 U.S.," he said, "we have very similarsimply observing sights which are for­fine," said ND sophomore Kevin Gaffney. 
Jaws to the ones in Singapore, but
eign to us. This seemed true during our 1 A ]hen I asked Dr. Pullapilly his opin­they're not enforced at all."
time in the Far East and also as we V V ion of the Singapore Justice "I liked Singapore and its strict rules. 

GARRY TRUDEAU

• 000NESBURY 
I M16HT TH8N PARLAY TH& 
Z&K&, YOU'Ve !3f3EN
ANYNAY, AFT!3<.1A/e t3£T 

R£CJX5NITION FROM THATIN­
ANRIU-YCXJI8T 7Ht3
8Aa<. TO A'?PeN, I'M IJPF­

TO A /JOOK OR. A MOVI/3 Of<. 
tA5TFeWMIL.In. 15
!Nf!l#,.Y GOING TO 68TA 

50M&THIN&. OR. I MIGHT 
501118TH!NG t/1.1/?0NGf
5HOtUOF NW~ffOFF 

~ARTA M.A6/.IZ!Ne, Y'KNOtu<
7H& Gl<a.JN/?... 

• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The holy passion of 
friendship is of so sweet and steady and loyal and enduring a nature that it will last through a whole lifetime, if 
not asked to lend money." 
-Mark Twain 


VIEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, October 2, 1995 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Republicans hinder lower-classes from higher education 
I
Dear Editor: According to a Sept. 21 article in the Perkins Student Loans to over 157,000 cially impossible for the underprivileged used to think that the federal govern­Observer, "a traditional student bor­students nationwide and completely students to attend high-cost universities, ment supported youth in their pursuit rowing $1 7,12 5 in subsidized loans eliminates the State Student Incentive including Notre Dame, millions of dol­of higher education. So needless to say, would see costs increase over $1,400. Grants Program. Out of all these pro­lars to provide aid, thus increasing the 
was vexed when Congressional Similarly, graduate students borrowing grams, Stafford Loans are the most already skyrocketing tuition rates. This Republicans began debating an issue $34,000 would have to pay an additional widely received form of student aid. bill will make higher education a privi­near and dear to the collegial heart -$9,400." Moreover, nearly half of all Stafford lege of the wealthy instead of a right student aid. On behalf of you that have not yet Loan borrowers have family incomes which should be enjoyed by all. Over the past several months of political heard of the plan to cut student aid, I'll below $20,000 a year. I cannot agree with President haranguing in both houses of Congress, The Republicans were purposefully Clinton's words more when he said, it has become all too clear to me that vague about how they would go "These proposals are a direct attack on the intention of the Republicans is to about cutting the $10 billion from the our nation's students and our nation's
'This bill will make higher 
discourage federal support of higher Stafford Loan Program, but these are future ... If Congress approves these education on the part of middle and eduation a privelege of some proposed methods Congress has changes, the dream of a college educa­lower-income students. I believe that, the wealthy instead of a right discussed. Congress may raise the loan tion will become a financial nightmare regardless of income, all people should origination fee or raise the interest rate for many young people and their par­
which should be enjoyed by
have access to priceless, top quality edu­cap, making it more expensive to bor­ents." cation, such as the education we receive all.' row money in the first place. Another There is still time to affect Congress in here at Notre Dame. Unfortunately, option is to eliminate or reduce the six its pursuit of student aid cutting! Write Congressional Republicans do not share month grace period after graduation to your congressperson, and remember
Anne Anderson

my view. before the loan is to be repaid. to vote for pro-education lawmakers! -As a Democrat, but more importantly A third option is including home equity The Republican Congress marks the first as a college student, I would like to in the determination of financial need. time we have ever needed to worry protest the proposed cuts in student aid. That would make it exceedingly difficult about cuts in student aid. Let's make Sadly, some students will be unable to fill you in on the details. On Aug. 3, for students with home-owning parents sure we never have to worry about these 
, r 
afford an education next year if the Congress passed the Education to receive Stafford loans. Last week a cuts again. The Republican Congress Republicans have their way in Congress. Appropriations Bill. This bill contained new proposal was announced by Sen. has already taken out a Contract on
r 
If the bill is passed, over five million an unprecedented package of cuts in Nancy Kassebaum (R-Kansas). It America, don't let them take out a 
~ 
undergraduates and 725,000 graduate higher education funding, the details of includes charging universities a two per­Contract on our Future!r and professional students would have to which have yet to be completely ironed cent fee on the volume of their student
r 
pay an additional $10 billion over the out, which may take until November or loans. 
~ next seven years. At Notre Dame, more December. Any combination of these proposals ANNE ANDERSON ~ than 3,700 students take advantage of The Education Appropriations Bill spells disaster in the realm of higher Junior federal loans a to help pay for their edu­cuts $10 billion from the Stafford Loan education. If these student aid cuts are Pasquerilla East 
' 
r 
cation. 
r 
Dear Editor: 
My, isn't Peter Lenardos angry in his Sept. 26 Inside Column! And why shouldn't he be? He has been mercilessly shackled under Bill Clinton's oppressive regime for three long years. The abuses? Apparently, he has not been encouraged to "succeed," become "rich," or even been inspired by our president. He has withstood biting criticism of his present. or prospective ·wealth," ·and· has even had to bear governmental attempts to (gasp!) collect taxes. This unfortunate and disillusioned young man has been "tricked, fooled, and deceived." Indeed, he has claimed quite a griev­ance -Bill Clinton, along with his liberal cronies, has actively obstructed his pursuit of the American Dream. 
Let us examine Lenardos' American Dream. Throughout his column, he alludes to free­dom, individualism, and per­sonal wealth as the proper tenets of the American govern­ment (embodied by the Republicans), inevitably paving the way towards the American Dream. I would submit that these isolated ideals are, in fact, inadequate to facilitate the dreams of all Americans. Freedom should indeed be the starting point, yet the accumu­I.ation o( personal wealth and success must not be its only derivative. Freedom ultimately 
Program alone. It also denies the passed, it would become virtually finan-University of Notre Dame College Democrats 
bestows responsibility. Therefore, as arguably the most powerful and wealthy nation on earth, we, as Americans, must shoulder the greatest responsibility. The only responsibility which Lenardos and the current crop of Republicans perceive is explicit self-promotion. In Lenardos' myopic mind, self­promotion leading to wealth and success is the extent of his duty as a citizen in a capitalis­tic nation. He feels he deserves a $30,000+ a year job if he can obtain one. It is his right, it is just, and it is normal (hence his rejection of the specific cat­egory, "rich"). 
Perhaps Lenardoss ought to re-evaluate what exactly con­stitutes "right" and "normal" in our contemporary society and world. Is it right that 35,000 children die per day due to famine and sickness? Is it normal that there are three times as many shelters for ani­mals as there are for battered women? Is it acceptable that children born in the inner city are engulfed by the only corner of the world that they know exists? Is it justified that this prospective Notre Dame grad­uate place his grievances above theirs? 
Do you believe these people 
have a dream? A dream which 
is perhaps more humble than 
yours, yet, I would assert, just 
as worthy. Your gallant 
Perception of "normal" is skewed 
Republicans trample over these dreams on their greedy race for the top. That is what your brand of individualism leads to. Do not be tricked again. These presidential aspi­rants do not want "people to succeed," as you so vaguely claim, but rather some people -namely, them, and those like them. 
I am not willing, or morally able, to so easily dismiss the poor, minorities, and the unlucky. I have tried to become conscious, as I would advise you to, that it is only a fortunate twist of fate which has placed me at the center of such love, support, money, and education. Instead of furiously expending energy trying to protect what's "yours," try extending compassion and attention to those who have lit­tle, or nothing. Realize that they exist, and deserve the same rights and dignity you do. Use your freedom to ensure theirs. You may claim they are free by virtue of law. That is not enough. Free them from poverty. Free them from preju­dice. Free them from violence. As part of a supportive and caring community, we may all have the opportunity to pursue our dreams. 
MARIBETH SUPROCK Senior Off-campus 
Reader miffed at Apple 
Dear Editor; fh' 1 am writing this in response to Matt Apple's C{)lumn of Sept. 
26. Congratulations Matt, you are the first writer who has suc­ceeded in ticking me off enough to get me to respond (though I . 1>. SiUPPO~Ie· my frustration with Observer writers has been growing some time now). +& · 
Mistake #1: I don't know who you've been talking to, hut most people who have even heard of New York would not group Buffalo in with Upstate· New York. As we all know Buffalo is in western N.Y. Bard College is Upstate, but barely. 
Speaking of y{)Ul' alma mater, though you imply that we are unbelievably out of touch here, Bard is even more physically iso­lated than Notre Dame. Bard's "radical and intellectual" com~ munity that you l)eem so proud of has a greater reputation for being a collection of wealthy elitist liberals and intellectual snobs than anything else. 
Mistake #2: Don't write atiout interhall football if you don't know anything about it. The Off-Campus issue is not about excluding those students. It is about whether they should have their own team (which will likely dominate because of the con­centration of power and experience on one squad) or if they ~hould be allowed to play for their former dorms (which many of the students want to do). You only showed ignorance by cb{)os­ing to address a topi~; you obviously know little about. 
And another thing. you have a problem with the religion here? Excuse tne. but Notre Dame is a Catholic school and proud to be so; No one enforces mass attendance like they used to, so what's your problem? A Catholic school can enforce Catholic rules and 
religious symbols ifit chooses. : . agree with you to acertain extent about the dorm issue, but remember t}lat the Bard way is not the only way to deal with 
· housing. You have M experience withNotre Dame dorm life. Many students (including myself) become closely connected to the dorm and tl:teit friends ther~ and look forward to spending four years in the same home. 
l also agree that we are sheltered here; Notre Dame is hardly representative ofthe soNcalled "real world". But there is plenty of opportunity to experience life beyond ND's walls • you just have to get off your rear and make an effort to do so. 
Next time you sit down towrite a bitter yetinsubstantial arti~ cle for· !he Observer. take a walk over to. the Homeless Shelter instead.Spend the time doing somethfng worthwhile and talk to some ofthe pepolewho ha.ye a real.reason to be bitter. 
Life is not perl'ect1 even at Notre D~:~.me. To make the. best of our existence; we have to learn how to work around or break down the obstacles that are put inour way. Don't just siton the sidelines and ·· that the game lsn't going your way. 
more • whining does. People with problems than to solve 

Dropping the ball 

The Observer/Kevin Klau and Brent Tadsen 
ABOVE: Ohio State's Eddie George scores in the fourth quarter to give the Buckeyes a 35-20 lead. 
BELOW: Demetrius Stanley hauls in a Bobby Hoying pass after making an adjustment to beat Shawn Wooden. 
Three Irish second half turnovers turn into 21 Buckeye points 
By MIKE NORBUT 
Sports Editor 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 

Judging by the final score, it would seem hard to believe that Notre Dame dominated the first 30 minutes of play against Ohio State on Saturday. They even led 17-14 at halftime, much to the dismay of most of the record 95,537 fans in attendance at Ohio Stadium. 
But Notre Dame's gold helmets turned into sil­ver platters in the second half, as they handed Ohio State a 45-26 victory by way of three turnovers. 
Two fumbles and an interception led to 21 Buckeye points in the third and fourth quarters, giving them a lead they would never relinquish. 
"We shouldn't have lost the game the way we did," quarterback Ron Powlus said. "If they were going to beat us, they should have beaten us on a last second field goal or a last touch­down drive.We beat ourselves today. there's no question." 
He'll get no argument from the other side. 
"The name of the game was turnovers," Ohio State head coach John Cooper said. "We got some good breaks today." 
The first of which came with 6:33 to play in third quarter. Notre Dame's Kevin Kopka had just kicked a 22-yard field goal to put the Irish in front 20-14, and they stopped Ohio State after live plays in the following series. Momentum 
see IRISH I page 2 

• JOCK STRIP Blindness to big game hype hurts stubborn Irish 

W
COLUMBUS, Ohio alking down High Street in Columbus on Friday night, it was ubiquitous and inces­sant. Hundreds of psyched Irish fans screaming to the point of strained vocal chords the rallying cry of "We are ND." For the Notre Dame faith-

Tim Sherman Associate Sporrs Editor 

ful it is a chorus of pride, a declaration of devotion. 
But recently, there has been a problem. We are ND, so what? What exactly does that mean these days. In all honesty, it beginning to border on obnoxious arrogance. Obviously, there is nothing wrong with being proud of your school and maybe even a bit boastful, but does attending Notre Dame make us any better than anyone else. As a matter of fact, the air of supremacy embodied in those four 
see SHERMAN I page 3 


-----· ~------~--­
-·--------­
Monday, October 2, 1995 
Buckeyes 01ake big plays, Irish don't 

Irish secondary dominated by Buckeye offense 
By TIM SHERMAN 
Associate Sports Editor 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 

In a game chock full of big plays, one stood out above all others and embodied all that has been wrong with the Notre Dame defense thus far. 
With less than three minutes remain­il}g in an already disastrous third quar­ter, Ohio State wide out Ricky Glenn caught a twenty yard curl from Bob Hoying. 
Cover man Allen Rossum had slipped 

The Ubse.~er/Brent Tadsen 

With the Irish turnovers, the defensive­backs got a work out in the second half. 
to the ground in his effort to keep track off the dangerous Glenn. 
That was problem number one. Rossum has continuously had problem maintaining his feet when the ball is in the air. 
Quite frequently, he has been in position to make a play only to lose his balance and allow the catch to be made. 
In earlier games, Rossum has been able to recover enough to make the tackle, preventing the very big gain. That wasn't the case though on the play in question. 
After making the catch, Glenn slipped through a crack between Rossum and the Irish safety and was off to the The Observer/Kevin Klau races. Shawn Wooden, shown knocking Buster Tillman out of bounds, came up with some big plays, but they were 
This was problem not enough. number two. 
Any time Rossum hears the word footrace, his eyes should light up. He is already an All-American sprinter in indoor track and very well may be the fastest man on the Irish ros­ter. 
So with 40 yards in which to run down Glenn, smart money was on the Irish keeping him out of the endzone. 
Mysteriously, the more-than-fleet-foot­ed Rossum was flat-out out-run by Glenn who cruised into the endzone with little more than a desperate dive by Rossum in attempt to bring him down. 
"You don't want to get into a footrace with Terry Glenn," Buckeye coach John Cooper noted. "If Glenn outran Rossum, I guess that makes him the world sprint champion." 

The play was not only shocking, it was crucial to the flow of the game. "That play really sparked us," Hoying said. All day long, the big gainers did in the Irish. 'The big passes and big runs were dis­astrous," Holtz said. 
If it wasn't Hoying picking the Notre Dame secondary apart, it was Eddie George sprinting through the defense. 
The Irish defenders know that needs 
to stop. 
"We need to hang in there as a defense and remain focused," Irish line­backer Lyron Cobbins said. 
"We can't have big plays like they had because it just lets the crowd get into it.," Notre Dame nose guard Paul Grasmanis said. "The big plays· here and there are frustrating." 
"We hold them for a few downs and then, bam, a big play. That just hurts a defense." 
And it kills any chance for the Irish to win the close contests that have become regular. 
Irish 
continued from page 1 
was in favor of the Irish. 
But a Brent Bartholomew punt sailed a bit on Emmett Mosley, who muffed it. Ohio State back-up center Dean Kruezer was there to jump on the loose ball. 
"Somehow I misjudged it," Mosley said. "When I went to catch it, I felt my man right there, and I figured it would hit him if I didn't catch it. But it turned out it was one of their men near me." 
Holtz tried to argue for an in­terference call, but to no avail. 
"It looked like he was interfered with, but that was a big play," Irish head coach Lou Holtz said. "Because instead of us having the ball with a 20-14 lead, they had 'it a:t our 19-yard 'line." 
The Buckeyes scored three plays later. Quarterback Bobby Hoying hit tight end Rickey Dudley over the middle, and Dudley carried Irish tacklers into the end zone. A Josh Jackson extra point gave the Buckeyes the lead for good at 21-20. 
Notre Dame answered with a 56-yard bomb from Powlus to Derrick Mayes. But the two had their signals crossed later in the drive, with disastrous con­sequences. Ohio State's Shawn Springs made a diving interception of a Powlus fade pass to erase a scoring chance. 
"We had a busted pattern," Holtz said. "Instead of having a chance to take the lead with a field goal, the kid makes a great play to intercept the pass." 
The Buckeyes struck quick once again, but this time with a little more flair. A simple Hoying pass to Terry Glenn on a curl route turned into an 82-yard touch­down. The receiver beat Irish corner­back Allen Rossum on the play, and then left the nationally-ranked sprinter in the dust in the race to the end zone. 
The completion helped to pad Hoying's stats a bit, but the Buckeye quarterback still had a very effective day. He com­pleted 14-of-22 passes for 272 yards and four touchdowns. 
"The whole community got involved with this game so much," he said. "We're so happy to win it for us, the community, and the Ohio State fans. It's something we can look back on and say we beat Notre Dame." 
Powlus was just 13-of-26 for 243 yards and the one fateful pick for the Irish. To make matters worse, he fum­bled a Rick Kaczenski snap on the fol­lowing series. Matt Bonhaus recovered to give the Buckeyes the ball at the Irish 
15. Three Eddie George runs later, and Ohio State held a 28-20 lead. 
George finished with 207 yards on 32 carries and a pair of touchdowns. His 61-yard jaunt in the fourth quarter was the demoralizing factor in the game. 
"The big runs were disastrous," Holtz said. "All year long we have really given up the big plays." 
Notre Dame started out with picture perfect execution, jumping out to a 10-0 lead. A Kopka field goal at the start of the second quarter was followed shortly by a Randy Kinder three-yard plunge before Ohio State could even blink. 
"We had never been in that position before this year," Hoying said. "We real­ized we had to get things going quick." 
They did midway through the second quarter, when Hoying hit Glenn on a slant over the middle to close to 10-7. 
The Irish answered on their next drive with an 8-play, 65-yard drive culminat­ing in a Kinder 7 -yard run through a hole that could have fit a truck. 
Probably the key score of the game came with under a minute left in the first half, when Hoying hit Demetrius Stanley in the corner of the end zone with a 17 -yard pass. Stanley made a ter­rifle adjustment on the play by turning completely around to both fake out Shawn Wooden and get to the pass. The score narrowed Notre Dame's lead to just three at halftime. 
"The touchdown just before the half was big for them, I'm sure." 
Notre Dame kept up with Ohio State's pinpoint execution with play-calling that kept the Buckeye defense off-balance throughout the first half, but it got a bit stale on the opening drive of the third quarter. 
With a first down at the Buckeyes' ten, Holtz elected to give to Edwards three straight times. He got down to the two, but no farther. Notre Dame had to settle for a field goal instead of retaking a ten­point advantage. 
"Credit their defense," Edwards said. "They held when they needed to." 
page 3 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA Monday, October 2, 1995 
Special teams, turnovers demoralize Irish 
Fumbles, interceptions give Buckeyes second half win 
By TIM SHERMAN Associate Sports Editor 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 

There are two variables in football that are often crucial to determining the outcome to clashes such as Ohio State's 45· 26 victory over Notre Dame. Either the play of the special teams or the turnover game can turn a game one way or another. 
On Saturday they both came together on one play to signal 

I 
I 
....-:op 

, 'I • • I 
·I 
·, 'i I 25
'' i[ 
.: 11 I ' 
TEAM RECORD 
1. Florida St. (37) 4-0-0 2. Nebraska (17) 5-0-0 3. Florida (2) 4-0-0 4. Colorado (6) 5-0-0 
5. Southern Cal 4-0-0 
5. Ohio St. 4-0-0 7. Michigan 5-0-0 
8. Texas A&M 2-1-0 9. Virginia 5-1-0 10. Tennessee 4-1-0 11. Auburn 3-1-0 
12. 
Penn State 3-1-0 

13. 
Kansas State 4-0-0 14. Oklahoma 3-1-0 15. Washington 3-1-0 16. Alabama 3-1-0 17. Oregon 3-1-0 18. Arkansas 4-1-0 19. Stanford 3-0-1 20. Texas 3-1-0 


21 . Louisiana State 3-1-1 22. Wisconsin 2-1-1 
23. Notre Dame 3-2-0 24. Kansas 4-0-0 25. Northwestern 3-1-0 
-I I 
j I the downfall of the Irish. large part due to apparent in­I 
With less than seven minutes terference from Ohio State. remaining in the third quarter, Nonetheless, OSU recovered the Irish had just stopped the and proceeded to find the end· 
I
Buckeyes on third down and zone in less than 1:30. appeared to have all the mo· mentum in their favor. "The name of the game was 
turnovers," Ohio State coach 
OSU punter Brent John Cooper noted. Bartholomew then lofted a 34 "They gave us four opportuni· yard punt toward Emmett ties and we scored on three. Mosley, who attempted to catch The muffed punt was especially the wobbly kick in the midst of big because it was looking a crowd of Buckeyes. bad." 
"I called a fair catch and the That one play seemed to take ball drifted on me," Mosley ex· all the steam out of an Irish plained. squad that had been executing 
"I didn't think my man heard well in the first half. the call so I attempted to catch it but it wasn't my man. If I The second half was an en· knew it was their guy I tirely different story as the wouldn't have tried to catch it." turnovers mounted. 
But he did try, and more im· Fumble-itis hurt the Irish in 
. ..J 
portantly he failed, perhaps in less obvious ways as well. A re­verse on the kick-off following Ohio State's go-ahead score backfired when the exchange was bobbled. 
All week long in practice the Irish had worked on the reverse that was designed for Autry Denson to take a hand-off from Emmett Mosley and streak up the left sideline. 
The play appeared to be slow­developing but the mishandled hand-off did nothing but further 
play that finalized the fate of Three plays later, Eddiethe malaise that the Irish had 
Notre Dame. George was celebrating in thefallen into. 
end zone.
"Their turnovers hurt them \As had been a problem inpsychologically." Cooper said. 
earlier games, Powlus couldn't "Notre Dame played veryRon Powlus, himself a major 
handle a Rich Kaczenski snap. well, but they made some mis­culprit, agreed. 
This time, though, Powlus was takes and we were able to capi­"We beat ourselves, there's 
unable to recover and the talize," said George, who
no question," Powlus assessed. 
Buckeyes took over at the Irish ripped through the Irish"We made the mistakes." 
15 yard line late in the third defense for 210 yards and two quarter. touchdowns.

The third mistake was the 

• By the Book
.· .~ .. -.. 

Sherman
L'l ., )
I / ' ' ' 

TEAM STATISTICS PASSING­
I . 'I ( /
t ' ~~ ~ 
NO OSU 
continued from page 1
~ 

First downs 21 24 Notre Dame: Powlus 13-26-1-204. 
' 

Rushes-yards 47-204 48-261 Ohio State: Hoying 14-22-0-272 4TD. 
Passing yards 243 272 

syllables has become a debilitating factor on the 
Comp-att-int 13-26-1 14-22-0 RECEIVING·PREV-
gridiron.
Retum yards 75 92
POINTS tOUS 

Fumbles-lost 5-2 o-o Notre Dame: Mayes 5-125, Mosley 3-21, 
The Irish seem to think that because they are 
Penalties-yards 1-5 2-14 Edwards 2-48, Chryplewicz 2-41, Danson 1-8. 
ND, they have some God-given right to a victory.
1522 1 

Punts-ave 3-39.3 3-35.3 Ohio State: Glenn 4-128 2TD, George 3-22, 3rd down conv 7-15 7-14 Tillman 2-61, Sualua 2-9, Dudley 2-35 lTD, 
The team has all too often taken the outlook 
4th down conv 0-1 1-2 Stanley 1-17 lTD.
1489 2 

that no game is bigger than any other. The fact
Possession time 28:23 31:37 TACKLES-
that every time the Irish take the field, the oppo­
1384 3 
INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS 

nent looks at it as their game of the year has
Notre Dame: Cobbins 14, Berry 10, Wynn 
RUSHING-10, Tatum 9, Grasmanls 6, Moore 6, Magee 6, 
1381 4 

seemingly turned into an excuse. There is no 
Covington 5, Rossum 5, Wooden 5, Bennett 5, 
doubt that Notre Dame brings out the best in
Notre Dame: Kinder 28-143 3TD, Edwards Minor 3, C. Stokes 1, McLaughlin 1, Carretta 1,
1292 7 

12-49, Powlus 4-6, Stokes 1-4, Mosley 1-3, Wagasy 1, Mitoulas 1. 
everybody, but the question is why can't the 
Denson 1-(mlnus 1 ). Ohio State: Belllserl 12, R. Miller 10, Ficken 
Irish match that level of intensity. 
1292 5 

Ohio State: George 32-207 2TD, Pearson 10, Howard 8 (2 sacks), Springs 6 (1 lnt), Gwinn 7-29, Hoying 4-14, Je. Jackson 3-8, Sualua 2-3. 6, Vrabel 8 (1 sack), Kelly 7, Johnson 7, Finkes 
All week long preceding the showdown in 
4, Moore 3, Bonhaus 3, Colson 1, Baird 1,
1181 8 

Columbus more than a few members of the Irish
Winfield 1, Malian 1. 
down played the tilt as just another game. No big
1068 9 

deal they said, we're used to it. 
1027 11 

This outlook is where the problem lies. This wasn't just another game and the Irish weren't 
• ·scoring Summary 
971 12 

SCORE BY QUARTERS THIRD QUARTER 
ready for it. 

1 2 3 4 F Notre Dame 20, Ohio State 14 
The hype surrounding this game was more
961 13 

Notre Dame 0 17 3 6 26 Kopka 22 FG at 9:14 (17 plays, 76 
Ohio State 0 14 14 17 45 yards, 5:36). Key Play: Edwards lost 2 
than hype. It was real. It was tangible. It was
801 6 

yards on 3rd & goal from the 2. 
electric.

SCORING SUMMARY Ohio State 21, Notre Dame 20 
It was also unmatched. The enthusiasm of the 
Dudley 15 pass from Hoying (Jo. FIRST QUARTER Jackson kick) at 5:06 (3 plays, 19 yards, 
737 16 

Buckeye fans was overwhelming, regardless of 
No Scoring 1:27). Key Play: Mosley fumbled away
654 10 

how many fannies were packed into the 
a Buckeye punt at the Irish 19. 
Horseshoe. The emotion of the team was just as
SECOND QUARTER Ohio State 28, Notre Dame 20 Notre Dame 3, Ohio State 0 Glenn 62 pass from Hoying (Jo. 
579 18 

high. John Cooper actually was successful in 
Kopka 20 FG at 14:50 (16 plays, 95 Jackson kick) at 1:20 (3 plays, 69 yards,
545 20 

something. He convinced his team that this was 
yards, 7:21 elapsed). Key Play: Powlus 1 :30). Key Play: Allen Rossum fell 
big. It was huge -for the team, the fans, the
hit Mayes for 30 yards to convert a key down while covering Glenn. 
470 19 

state. And they played like it. 
third down. 

Notre Dame 10, Ohio State 0 FOURTH QUARTER 
And why shouldn't they have looked at it as Kinder 3 run (Kopka kick) at 11 :25 (7 Ohio State 35, Notre Dame 20 
438 23 

their game of the year. Two of college football 
plays, 61 yards, 2:32). Key Play: George 5 run (Jo. Jackson kick) at
415 22 

strongest traditional powerhouses going at it for 
Powlus to Edwards for 29 yards to the 14:55 (3 plays, 14 yards, 1 :20). Key 
the first time in almost sixty years. 
OSU9. Play: Powlus fumbles the exchange with Notre Dame 10, Ohio State 7 center Rick Kaczenski.. 
378 21 

Forget the past even. It had enormous ramifi­Glenn 10 pass from Hoying (Jo. Ohio State 35, Notre Dame 26
359 14 

cation for the present. The Buckeyes are more
Jackson kick) at B:OB (7 plays, 60 yards, Kinder 13 run (run failed) at 12:55 (6 3:17). Key Play: Hoying's 51-yard pass plays, 65 yards, 1 :55). Key Play: 
than legitimate Big Ten contenders and maybe
308 

to Tillman to the Irish 26. Powlus to Chryplewicz at the Buckeye 
even national title hopefuls, while the Irish had a 
Notre Dame 17, Ohio State 7 13. 

chance to suddenly get right back to where they
258 15 

Kinder 7 run (Kopka kick) at 4:31 (6 Ohio State 42, Notre Dame 26 
should be -the top ten.

plays, 65 yards, 3:37). Key Play: George 3 run (Jo. Jackson kick) at
223 25 

Although the Irish played well if you take away 
Edwards hauled in a 19-yard pass from 11 :24 (4 plays, 80 yards, 1:31 ). Key 
Powlus at the Buckeye 31. Play: George ran 61 yards to the Irish 
the turnovers, the talent level is clearly down.
147 
Notre Dame 17, Ohio State 14 19. 

Hence, the emotional level needs to be up. 
TJR 
Stanley 17 pass from Hoying (Jo. Ohio State 45, Notre Dame 26 

But the Irish were blinded to the importance of 
Jackson kick) at :44 (12 plays, 76 yards, Jo. Jackson 35 FG at 6:09 (7 plays, 13 3:43). Key Play: Hoying found Glenn yards, 3:57). Key Play: Edwards came 
this game by their excessive self-esteem. It's 
for 10 yards to convert on 4th & 2. up just short on a fake punt attempt. 
high time for Notre Dame to realize that every game needs to be looked at as a big game and give reason again to proclaim that "We are ND." 
1'---~---­
! Monday,October 2, 1995 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA page 4 

The ObserverKevin Klau 
With the hostile environment and his return to the Horse Shoe, coach Lou Holtz decided to coach from the field instead of the press box. 
The Observer/Brent Tadsen Irish running back Randy Kinder (above) kept the offense moving as he raced for his tenth 100 yard game. The Irish defensive line was unable to apply any pressure to buck­eye quarterback Bobby Hoying (below). 
• GAME NOTES By MIKE NORBUT 
Sports Editor 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 
It was his homecoming. Who could have expected anything different from Irish head coach Lou Holtz than for him to be on the sidelines Saturday? 
But it may not have had the effect that he hoped it would have. 
"It was just business as usual," full­back Marc Edwards said. "He's a great force to have on your side, whether it be on the field or in the press box." 
The last minute decision to be on the field was the idea of his defensive coordinator. 
"I had really planned on being upstairs," he said. "Then Bob Davie felt that it would be better if I was on the field if I felt up to it,physically, and I felt I was." 
But his appearance on the field did not really surprise Buckeyes coach John Cooper. 
"Lou's a competitor," he said. "I told him before the game to make sure he didn't overdo it. I probably came back a little early myself from my first back surgery." 
Holtz wore a stylish sweater vest to go along with his turtle neck that covered up part of his neck brace, his restrictive reminder of the surgery he had on his spine almost three weeks ago. The reminder came back to haunt him after the game. 
"During the game, you get involved," he said. "Now that the game's over, I'm pretty well beat." 
Frosh First: Offensive tackle Mike Rosenthal made the first start of his career in place of Mike Doughty. And what a time and place to make a debut: At Ohio Stadium in front of 95,000-plus angry Buckeyes. 
"It was definitely a great experi­
ence," he said. "But it was pretty 

The Observer/Brent Tadsen The Buckeye offense had the knack of finding the holes, and getting behind the Irish defense. 
Ohio State 45 Notre Dame 26 
Ohio Stadium September 30, 1995 
rough physically. Things happened as fast as I thought they would." His nerves were calmed by a veter­an to the big game scene. 
"Ryan Leahy kept talking to me," he continued. "He made sure I was loose." 
Trash Talk: Buckeyes cornerback Shawn Springs was not all that impressed with Derrick Mayes, Notre Dame's marquee receiver. 
"I practice against guys Jike Terry Glenn and Buster Tillman, and let's not forget Joey Galloway last year," he said. "Mayes is pretty good, but I've faced better. 
"(Michigan's) Amani Toomer, (Penn State's) Bobby Engram are good receivers." 
So how did he justify getting beat by Mayes for 56 yard? 
"You can't dwell on one play," he said. "The most important play is the next play." 
Three plays later, Springs intercept­ed a Powlus pass to eliminate a scor­ing threat. 
'94 Repeat?: Questions as to how Notre Dame will react to the loss is anybody's guess. Visions of a near­losing season in 1994 is still fresh in players' minds. 
"We have leaders on this team, so we'll bounce back," nose guard Paul Grasmanis said. 
"We have to bounce back," Powlus said. "What else are we going to do?" 
Clueless: David Fong, sports editor for Ohio State's student paper, The Lantern, wrote a column before the game about his ties to Notre Dame. 
"My best friend and I always dreamed of going to Notre Dame," he wrote. "But then he had good grades, and I didn't. He was smart. I wasn't. 
"More to the ,point, his family was loaded, mine wasn't." 
This guy really needs to proofread his work before he prints it. He could start sounding like a fool. 
ACCENT 
Monday, October 2, 1995 page 11 
• JUST ANOTHER SINGLE DADDY (IT'S AMOVIE REVIEW) 
Who done it? Just 'The Usual Suspects' 
By SCOTT BOZIK quite equivalent to, a legitimate are also the theatrical innards in "The Usual Suspects" thrills This truth is a sad testament to 
Acc~nt Movi~ Critic sports section). I've always felt of this movie's fascinating enig­and chills me as well. Here are the fact that some individuals rather isolated here, insulated ma. supporting men (not to be rise to levels of fame based pri­from distraction, and thus able If I could emphasize but one chauvinist, but the film is com­marily on their appearance. I to bring the Notre Dame public attribute of this splendid pletely predicated on the ac­guess that the same could be 
**** 
the movie reviews they so right­thriller, it would most certainly tions of men) not seen since said of Elle MacPherson and 
S
ynopsis: Buckle up, ly deserve. be its delightfully cryptic na­films like "Miller's Crossing" (I Cindy Crawford; however, these passengers, and prepare This week, through the power ture. At this moment, only brief always tell my boys to put one people are called models, and yourselves for a journey of Technicolor, I bring "The hours after confining my rear to in the head) and "A Few Good they are not frequently con­whose destination is some­Usual Suspects" before you and the abusive imprisonment of a Men" (no friends, I am NOT fused with actors. where past deceit, a little try to examine an unorthodox theater chair, I am unable to It seems that my time once before chaos, and right next film in a medium accessible to conclusively answer any of the again draws short. In conclu­door to intrigue. "The Usual all. Don't thank me, thank our questions I myself posed! This 'The Usual sion, I would like to express my Suspects" is a movie built upon fine American tradition of the movie is a mystery that far ex­satisfaction with "The Usual
Suspects" is any--· 
a plot that has more twists than Free Press. ceeds any other film of its genre Suspects" on the basis of its a Mishawaka expressway, and I honestly have a difficult time in the department of suspense. thing except "usual"; technical elements. The cine­one whose resolutions are just deciding where to begin my Usually, anybody of a fairly and to attempt to trun­matography, in its choice of set­as mysterious and frustrating. task. The movie itself also faced standard intellect is able to pre­tings and shots, is quite pos­
cate its narrative for 
"The Usual Suspects" is any­such a dilemma, as the course dict the outcome of a cinematic sibly perfect for a movie based trying except "usual"; and to at­of events in the story line tran­mystery after the customary the purposes of this on illicit activities and tempt to truncate its narrative spire in the temporal format of presentation of the puzzle itself. investigative procedure. The
column and its inher­
for the purposes of this column flashback with the initial action The enjoyment of these lighting is brilliant, and we and its inherent synopsis would supposedly occurring "last movies then lies in watching the ent synopsis would be a need to give the just recognition be a travesty. Suffice it to say night in San Pedro." characters go through the to this film's gaffers and grips
travesty.
that "The Usual Suspects" is a The viewer is immediately motions of discovering for as well. Pay close attention to raucous ·romp through the thrust into a tense scene set in themselves what is an already overall atmosphere created world of crime that comes com­the decidedly nautical sur­foregone conclusion for the during the film's interrogation plete with blazing pistols and roundings of a Californian seemingly omniscient audience. scenes and I'm sure that you'll brazen wit. wharf. We witness what is For example, everybody referring to Tom Cruise). Once agree with my laudations. 
All I can do, even with my obviously the bitter end of a knows who the villains are in again we are treated to the Compliments and literary impressive capacities, is to ad­fiendish plot of criminal propor­"Murder, She Wrote" by the work of Gabriel Byrne and frivolity aside, it is in the best vise my audience to witness this tions that has gone horribly first commercial break. The Kevin Pollack; and simultane­interests of anyone who appre­big-screen phenomena and astray (a direction I feel this continued success of the show ously introduced to the skills of ciates a good movie to shell out then try to summarize it for column is headed). It is a is due to the nauseatingly cute actor Kevin Spacey. It was re­the cash to see "The Usual their friends. Perhaps only then poignant scene (highlighted debacles of Angela Landsbury freshing to see new faces in a Suspects. " Afterwards, do me a will you understand the beautifully by the deft use of (does anybody else think that quality film, as it is always favor and let me know who you quandary {and potential exposi­extreme close-ups) that culmi­she might actually commit the much easier to settle into a think the real criminal of the tional quagmire) that I am now nates in the point blank shoot­lion's share of these homicides movie and its dynamic antago­movie is. Not an easy question in. ing of the character portrayed herself?). Even more respected nists when you have no biases to answer, but one raised by a 
by actor Gabriel Byrne. forms of intrigue like Demme's or notions of how a character film that it is impossible not to 
Daddy: Once again I find my­Who is this victim, why can't "Silence of the Lambs" gives a should behave on the basis of enjoy. self in the comfortable sur­he feel his legs, and who is the fairly accurate preconception of it's representative's previous roundings of the Accent pages. man in the fedora getting ready the guilty party. "The Usual roles. Scott Bozik is one half of last It is always so pleasant here, to cap him? More importantly, Suspects" leaves Hollywood I found myself wondering why semester's Fat Man and Daddy. nestled peacefully betwixt the from whose perspective are we behind in this sense by com­we don't see such a cast in At press time. Fat Man was off incessant ecumenical prattling watching these events? These pletely and persistently befud­more films. I would wager that galavanting in London. The two of the Viewpoint section and are the questions that serve as dling anybody who experiences it is due to the simple eco­will be reunited in January. the excessive rambling of Irish the cinematic insurance policy it. nomics of Hollywood; people Football recap (a part of the pa­for the latest contribution from Equally as mysterious as its pay to see Brad Pitt and Keanu per closely resembling, but not director Bryan Singer; and they narrative, the troupe of actors Reeves, not Spacey and Pollack. 
Concern for spiritual life sparks new office 
By COLLEEN HERBERT Upon seeing the need for a new office, 
Accent Writer Campus Ministry approached Student Activities. Through Student Activities, Campus Ministry received the O'Hara 
T
he University of Notre Dame's Lounge in LaFortune where it is conve­Campus Ministry is attempting to nietly located adjacent to the informa­uplift the spirituality of the grow­tion booth and box office. This proves to ing number of students who live off be a very accessible location considering campus. Recently, the organization has the amount of time students, including opened a new office in the O'Hara off-campus students, spend at Lounge of LaFortune. The new office LaFortune, making it a very centralized was opened in the hope of reaching out location on campus. to those students who have made the Many students at Notre Dame in their decision to live off the central campus. junior and senior year make the deci­
Campus Ministry felt that there exists sion to move out of their dorm into off­a growing concern for the spiritual life campus housing. These students, upon of the stu~ent body living off campus. leaving, tend to lead a different spiritual Their belief was that the main office in life from when they were on campus. the library was not providing enough There is no longer mass in their living attention to those students who don't quarters and, consequently, it is a chal­spend night and day at Notre Dame. lenge to remain at the same spiritual 
This new office deals with the same level as when living on campus. There issues as the office in the library, such is also a loss of community feeling that as: Hite of Christian Initiation of Adults, is predominant during dorm masses. Confirmation preparation, Power Campus Ministry has recognized this Lunches, and the Notre Dame Encounter problem and wants to help those off­with Christ. The only difference be­campus students who are having spiritu­tween the two offices is that the office in al difficulty. They encourage the stu­
LaFortune is focusing solely on the off­dents to visit the office in order to talk campus student community. about spiritual life, their spiritual need, 
When Patrick Barredo, a student who or to look into joining the various differ­works the office along with other stu­ent projects provided by Campus dents and Father Patrick Neary, was Ministry. asked about the atmosphere of the oflice Father Patrick Neary, along with stu­home football games, to talk about any range from something as simple as stop­
he described it as "low key." He also dents who work the LaFortune Campus subject for which a student may feel a ping by to chat and share some M&M's mentioned that students are encouraged Ministry office (such as Patrick need to discuss. to something as complex as helping to 
to just "stop by" to discuss any spiritual Barredo), are a dedicated group of indi­So, off-campus students, what does resolve faith differences in relationships aspect of life. For example, students viduals who give their time in order to the new Campus Ministry LaFortune involving perspective partners. Off­could talk about how to handle the spiri­serve those off-campus students seeking office mean to you? This ministry, con­campus students seeking to enrich their tual issue behind a couple whose faith spiritual aid. The office is open Monday veniently located, next to the informa­spirituality would be wise to stop by the 
differs or discuss the issue of converting through Friday from lla.m. to 4 p.m., tion booth, will provide spiritual guid­Campus Ministry office in the O'Hara 
to Catholicism. except on Thursdays and Fridays of ance to all in need. This guidance could Lounge of LaFortune. 

:ACCENT
page 12 Monday, October 2, 1995 

By DAN CICHALSKI Assistant Accent Editor 
I
t's 8 p.m. on a Wednesday night. You've been reading Plato since three with only a short break for dinner. Now it's time for a mindless study break where you can just sit there, re­lax, and not worry about that six-page paper which must an­swer the question, "Based on h1s works; if Plato were· alive today, would he wear boxers or briefs?" It's time for television. 
But what do you watch? Yoti haven't watched "90210" since high school, "Grace Under Fire" is out of the question since Brett Butler the actress has a deeper voice than Brett Butler the baseball player, and "Dateline NBC" is just not the kind of show you want to watch while taking a break from the books. "Hey," you say, "I won­der what this new show, 'Central Park West,' is like?" CBS's new prime time drama may not be the only rookie pro­gram that catches your eye. But how will you know which shows are worth your precious time? Read on. Several new shows for the fall are included below and will give you an idea of which ones deserve your time and which ones will be off the air before South Bend's first snow­fall. 
Brotherly Love. (6 p.m. Sundays on NBC). Following the wilting of "Blossom," NBC decided to hang on to the "Seventeen" poster boy Joey Lawrence ("Whoa!"). His two younger, real-life brothers join him in this sitcom about a sin­gle mother raising three sons. In the rather serious pilot, Joe returns unexpectedly after a long absence and is not imme­diately forgiven by his mother and step-brothers. His charac­ter is significantly more intelli­gent than the one on "Blossom," but the middle brother has adopted the "a few keys short of a keyboard" role. The most laughs will come from the antics of the youngest. As "The Cosby Show" and "Full House" have shown, a five-year old will bring laughs almost ev­ery time. This show has promise although the pilot was not that hot. Overall grade: 5. 

Ned and Stacey. (8:30 p.m. Sundays on FOX). Thomas Hayden Church also steps into a new character with a higher IQ in this show about a couple liv­ing together in an apartment for convenience. Known as the simple-minded mechanic Lowell on "Wings," Church now plays a businessman who will only get the promotion he's looking for if he is married. Though the two can't stand each other, Ned agrees to let Stacey move in (since she des­perately needs a place to live) only if she'll marry him. Of course, they agree to freely date other people and Ned wastes no time: he has a date the night they get married. This show had some hilarious moments and a well-acted seri­ous scene at the end. It will probably be one of the more successful programs this fall; Overall grade: 7 
Can't Hurry Love. (7:30 p.m. Mondays on CBS). After only one season, "Friends" is al­ready enticing other networks to attempt to duplicate its amazing success. CBS's entry is this show starring Nancy McKeon, from "The Facts of Life," about yet another woman who just can't seem to find a "nice guy" no matter how hard she tries. Her friends (one a female who has been around and another a love-em•and­leave-em type guy from The City), of course, have sugges­tions on how she can improve her personal life. The humor is somewhat bland but still brings laughs and the opening is a simple instrumental with views of the New York City skyline; Overall grade: 7 
The Client. (7 p.m. Tuesdays on CBS). John Grisham simply lacks the ability to write well for both page and television screen. Although several of his books have done very well and some have made decent movies, there is no room for them on TV, especially "The Client." The actors' southern accents are mediocre at best and John Heard's (in Tommy Lee Jones' role as the District Attorney) Atlanta drawl sounds a lot like Kevin Costner's New Orleans in "JFK." With all the other legal dramas on the air these days, there is not much room for this one. Don't bother; 
What the grades mean: 
1-3: Won't see Thanksgiving. 
"11-6: Watch it while you can, 
it might not be here next 
year. 

7-10: Everyone anJ their 
mother will claim they came 
UJP> with the idea. 
Overall grade: 2 
Murder One. (9 p.m. Tuesdays on ABC; soon to be Thursdays). Now this is a legal drama worth watching. ABC is attempting a lot with this one. They are hoping to capitalize off the (demented) interest in the O.J. Simpson trial combined with the strong following of. "NYPD Blue" while competing against last year's Rookie Show of the Year, "ER." After the first three weeks on Tuesday nights in "Blue's" time slot, "Murder One" moves to Thursdays to take on "ER." The plot for the season is one murder trial (a prominent Los Angeles figure is accused of murdering a 15­year-old girl; he was having an affair with her older sister) that will be resolved in May. This scenario presents a problem, however, because in order to be completely aware of the de­velopments, you would have to watch every week. This fact, combined with the move to Thursday's 9 p.m. time slot, will take away some would-be view­ers and affects the fmal grade, which is still a respectable 7. 
Central Park West. (8 p.m. Wednesdays on CBS). First there was "90210," then "Melrose," next was "Models Inc.," and now there's "CPW." They should have quit while they were ahead. Sure, it's about time they set one of these in New York City, but it lacks realism (one character raises his hand, shouts "TAXI!" and has one in front of him within seven seconds). It has all the character stereotypes: a power­ful working woman, a slack-ofT goateed husband, a manipula­tive witch, yada yada yada. The show is already so involved with its demented plot that there is little room for im­provement or expansion with some of the characters. This one's going the way of "Models." Overall grade: 4 
The Single Guy and Caroline in the City (7:30p.m. and 8:30 
p.m. Thursdays on NBC). These two new shows are grouped together because they were stuck in the middle of the most popular night on televi­sion. Inserted between "Friends" and "Seinfeld." "The Single Guy" will get some of those viewers who like continu­ity or are just too lazy to think of something to do for half an hour. "Caroline" will do the same, but probably will have more people watching since "Seinfeld" and "ER" are such good programs. In "Guy," Jonathan Silverman is the lone unmarried character with sev­eral attached friends trying to set him up. It's a pretty pitiful effort by NBC at filling the half­hour; Overall grade: 2 
"Caroline" will be more suc­cessful and part of the reason is that it's a better show. Lea Thompson (from "Back to the Future") plays a single (of course) cartoonist in New York (of course). What's different about this show, however, is that Caroline actually has a job, and you see her at it. Often. The jokes are better than most of the new shows' and the laughs come more often. This may be the best of a weak bunch; Overall grade: 7 
The Jeff Foxworthy Show. (7 
p.m. Saturdays on ABC). How many redneck jokes can you get into a half-hour show? More than is necessary. Foxworthy, the latest in a long line of stand-up comics to turn to tele­vjsion, shouldn't have quit his day (or should it be night) job. He is, however, a funny man and if the writers get smart and try not to get a different red­neck joke into every episode, this one could last. Overall grade: 5 for potential. 
Basically, it looks like this fal­l's new shows can be thrown into one of four categories: Good-looking twenty-some­things (most of them single) out on their own in New York; yet another "prime-time soap" like "90210," et. al.; nighttime cop/murder/courtroom dramas a la "NYPD Blue" or "L.A. Law"; and single working moms raising a family on her own. These are merely one re­porter's views on what this fall has to offer on TV. Decide for yourself which ones will take you away from Plato. But don't feel you have to watch the new ones; you can always return to the established hits. 


Monday, October 2, 1995 The Observer • PROFESSIONAL FOOTBALL page 13 
• NFL 
Aikman hurt in Cowboy's loss 
By JOSEPH WHITE Assocjatc:d l'rc:ss 
WASHINGTON 

Troy Aikman left the game and then the Cowboys fell Firstapart. 
The Redskins, sensing a vul­nerability in their most hated rival, responded with a perfor­mance full of gritty second effort Sunday and held off a late rally for a 27-23 victory over previously unbeaten Dallas. 
The Cowboys became stun­ningly mortal in all phases of the game after Aikman left with a strained calf on the Cowboys' flrst possession. 
The Redskins defense put eight men up front and dared Wade Wilson to pass, and the 36-year-old backup didn't find his rhythm until it was too late. Emmitt Smith failed to rush for 100 yards for the first time this season, and the Dallas offensive line allowed two sacks, as many as it had given up previously all season. 
The Cowboys' defense was pushed aside by a patchwork Hedskins offensive line, weak­ened by injuries to Jim Lachey and Tre Johnson. Terry Allen's 1-yard run in the third quarter that made it 27-10 was the first rushing touchdown against Dallas this season. 
Many of Allen's 121 yards­on 30 carries -came on sec­ond and third efforts. Suddenly, his moves looked like Smith's, and quarterback Gus Frerotte's connections with receiver Michael Westbrook had the look of Aikman-to-Michael Irvin as the Redskins picked on cor­nerback Clayton Holmes. 
The Cowboys, meanwhile, made the mistakes one would expect from the young, rebuild­ing Redskins: Smith lost a fum­ble for the second time this sea­son; motion penalties at the line of scrimmage slowed down big second-half drives; Kendall Watkins triPd to lateral to no one in particular while sitting on the grass during a kickoff return; and Barry Switzer used up a timeout in third quarter while hesitating whether to kick a field goal or go for a fourth down. 
The Hedskins (2-3) effort was best exemplified by a Allen's TD reception late in the first half. On first-and-goal from the Dallas 5 with 25 seconds remaining and no timeout, Allen juggled the ball, then bounced out of the arms of line­backer Dixon Edwards before stretching the ball over the end zone pylon for the score. 
Frerotte (13-for-24, 192 yards) had his own rookie mis­take, sailing the ball high while under pressure and into the hands of Cowboys safety Darren Woodson, who returned it 37 yards for a touchdown in the first quarter to put Dallas up 10-3. 
But Frerotte-to-Marc Logan for 9 nine yards tied it on the Redskins next possession, and Eddie Murray's 46-yard field goal and Allen's first TD made it 20-10 at halftime. 
After a Chris Boniol field goal, Wilson (21-for-29, 224 yards, one interception) passed 28 yards to Irvin early in the fourth quarter to cap a 96-yard drive that closed the gap to 27­
20. Another Boniol field goal made it 27-23 with 7:44 to play, but Wilson was picked off by Tom Carter. · 
Aili!~lliltlrr®llil lF1r~~llumiil~llilu §®IIDllu®miil®ll'~~ ~llil®l 
J1!llllilll@1m 
Announcing the National Security Education Program Competition 
Win an NSEP scholarship to study abroad in regions of the world outside of Canada and Western Europe. Applicable to most foreign study abroad programs. 
Come to the informational meeting with Professor Jennifer Warlick on Monday evening, October 2, 1995 at 7:00p.m. in room 131 DeBartolo. 
7asle Of -Xa l1.ons 
FOOD AND ENTERTAINMENT FROM AROUND THE WORLD 
Comefoin !.hefun I dlop by before c5y!R"s andJorma.ls I Xc.ko/1 !.he wee.kendin a umrue way andbring allyourfriends/ 

c5ponsored6y: !]J(uflicufluraff.Jxeculive CouncJ! 
Featuring: Sabor Latino, Voices ofFaith, Main Street Rockerettes, and a great night offun, dance, food and music! 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1995 8 P.M.-12 A.M. STEPAN CENTER ADMISSION: $1 
Shula family duel ends in Dolphin win 
By JOE KAY 
,A~pciated Press 
CINCINNATI 
The Shula vs. Shula sequel 

bad a lot more drama but the 
same ending: Dad Don hugged 
son David at midfield and 
walked off a winner. 
Dan Mari.no threw a 16-yard 

touchdown pass to O.J. Mc­
Duffie with 1:03 left Sunday, 
keeping the Don Shula's Miami 
Dolphins unbeaten with a 26­
23 victory over Dave's ,Cincinnati Bengals. 
j~y Cincinnati (2-3) wasted a 
~}lance to tie in the closing sec­
·ouds when Doug Pelfrey's 45· 
yard field-goal attempt drifted 
a few feet wide left. · 
Miami is 4-0 for the fifth 

time in club history and the 
first since 1992. 
. :.. . 
l;l:!i1Tbe two quarterbacks made sure the second father-son 'coaching match-up in NFL his· tory eclipsed the original for excitement. The Dolphins sim­ply ground out a routine 23-7 vnulastyear. ' 
Jeff Blake kept Cincinnati in 

it until the end by throwing 
three touchdown passes to 
Cil.rl Pickens, the last a 10· 
yarder with 3:39 left for a 23· 
19 lead. Blake completed 18 of 
34 overall for 213 yards. 
. But there was plenty of time 
left for Marino, who is one of 
th~.. main reasons:that Papa 
Sht11a has 340 career coaching 
~· the most in NFL history.
·=w, 
Marino led the Dolphins 91 yards in 10 plays, completing 8 of 10 for 76 yards on the final drive. The touchdown was vin­tage Marino: a quick pump fake as McDuffie curled towards the sidelines, then a perfectly-thrown pass that allowed the receiver to go up and pull it in over Roger Jones. 
The closing minutes un­derscored the biggest differ· ence between the coaching Shulas. The Dolphins tend to do things right in the clutch; the Bengals fold more often than not. 
Cincinnati got the ball back and drove to the 27-yard line on three Blake completions, but Pelfrey -who missed a chance to send a game to over­time against Seattle two weeks ago -was off again. 
Don gently grabbed the back of Dave's head when they met in a throng of rt}porters at midfield and pulled him tightly into him for a tender cheek-to· cheek hug. 
Marino, in his first game back from a bruised chest, completed 33 of 48 for 450 yards, but let the game reach a tense finish by failing to finish off drives. 
Pete Stoyanovich tied his career high with four field goals-of 21, 46, 36 and 35 yards -to rescue the Dolphins. His last kick put Miami up 19·17 with 10 min­utes left. 
Tuesday October 3, 1995 126 Debartolo 4:30pm 
Sophomores in the Colleges of Arts and Letters and Business Administration Are Welcome! 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, October 2, 1995 
• NATIONAL lEAGUE BASEBALL 

Rockies clinch NL wild-card spot on final day 
By JOHN MOSSMAN 
Associated Press 
DENVER 
The upstart Colorado Rockies wQn the NL wild card spot in dramatic fashion Sunday, rally­ing from a six-run deficit as Larry Walker and Eric Young hit two-run homers to lead a 10-9 victory. 
Colorado will meet the Atlanta Braves in the first round of divisional play Tuesday night at Coors Field. 
The Rockies, in their third S!lason ofexistence, qualified for postseason play quicker than any expansion team ever had. Previously, the 1969 New York Mets and the 1976 Kansas City Royals made the playoffs in their eighth seasons. 
Trailing 8-2 in the third after another poor starting per­formance from Bret Saberha­gen, the Rockies came back for four runs in their half to make it 8-6, then added four more in the fifth to take a 10-8 lead. 

San Francisco got a run in the seventh to cut its deficit to 10­9, but the Giants put only one runner on base in the final two innings. 
Curtis Leskanic pitched the ninth for his lOth save, striking out two. When the final out was made, the Rockies hugged and contratulated each other on the field while a crowd of 48,039 stood and cheered. 
A loss by Colorado would have forced a one-game playoff Monday against Houston, which beat Chicago 8-7 Sunday. The result of the Astros-Cubs game was known by the ninth inning of the Giants-Rockies game. 
Lance Painter (3-0} got the victory, going one-third of an inning in the fifth. 
In the third, pitcher Mark Thompson led off the inning with a single and scored on Young's sixth homer. Joe Girardi singled and scored on Walker's 36th homer, a 427­foot blast to center. 
The Rockies sent nine men to the plate in the fifth, starting the inning with four straight hits off reliever Mark Leiter (10-12}. 
Girardi doubled down the left-field line, Bichette hit a dribbler inside the third-base bag for a single, Walker hit an RBI single and Andres Galarraga produced the tying run with a double into the left­field corner. 
Castilla's groundout scored the go-ahead run, and Walt Weiss doubled to right for another. 
The Giants jumped on Saberhagen for eight runs in the first three innings en route to an 8-2 lead. 
Matt Williams hit his 23rd homer, a 442-foot, two-run shot in the first. J.R. Phillips led off the second with a 434-foot solo blast. 
San Francisco batted around in the third, scoring five times on four hits to chase Saberhagen. Barry Bonds had an RBI double, Mark Carreon knocked in two runs with a double, and Rich Aurilia and Kirt Manwaring had back-to­hack sacrifice flies. 
San Francisco got its last run in the seventh on doubles by Phillips and pinch-hitter Dave McCarty. 
Bond and Aurilia left the game in the sixth inning after colliding on a foul popup. Bonds suffered a cut on his chin and Aurilia a cut on his scalp, with both requiring stitches. 
Notes: The Giants offered one-year contract extensions to their entire coaching staff and training. staff.... The Rockies had their 51st consecutive sell­out and finished the year with 3,390,037 to lead the majors in attendance for the third straight year. They averaged 47,084.... Young's triple was his ninth this season, setting a club record.... Leiter made his first relief appe~rance since last Aug. 9 when he was with California.... The Rockies fin­ished the year with a league­leading 200 home runs.... Williams hit over .300 (.336} for the first time in his career. 

The Observer acceprs classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaForrune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Cenrer. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. 
RIDE NEEDED  ZEP HOUSE '96-97  CALIFORNIA GIRLS NEED  8 USCGA'S  0c000o0o0c0o000c0o0c0  
NOTICES  to Indiana University Oct 6. Call ADAM 4-1767  6 bedrms. Beach V-ball ct. 273-0482, 234-3831  2 USC TICKETS GA'S OR STUDENT  NEEDED 2718154  QUALITY COPIES, QUICKL VIII THE COPY SHOP  
CALLX2089  LaFortune Student Center  
WEEKLY-MIDWAY TAVERN 810W4TH MISH.  Earn $2500 & Free Spring Break Trips! Sell 8 Trips & Go Freel Best  FOR SALE  ASK FOR PETE  NEED TICKETS FOR WASHING­TON GAME, CALL KRISTINA @  Phone 631-COPY 0c0o0o0o0c0c0o0c0c0o0  
MON THE JAZZ FIRM 7:30-9:30  Trips & Prices! Bahamas, Cancun,  NEED 4 USC GAs Katie 4015  (503)220-8958.  
WED OPEN JAM 9 PM  Jamaica, Florida! Spring Break  1988 Suzuki Samari  The Days of Our lives  
THURS IRISH MUSIC 9  Travell1-800-678-6386  36K Excellent Condition  Need 2 USC GA's  NEED 1 BC ST or GA  Correspondents are looking to  
2BLKS S.OF 100 CTR  $4195 Cal! 284-4259  Will Pay For Them  Will trade 1 USC ST or pay $$  expand their soap opera coverage.  
255-0458 NEED 10  Do you need a baby sitter???  Call Rusty x-0993  Melissa x1255  If you watch any soap every day  
DUKE TUMATOE LIVE OCT. 5  I am available every day  86 Honda CRX Red Exclnt in and  religiously (except Days) call Erin or  
from 8.00 am until 3.45 pm  out 71 k $2200 Jim 234 0985  $$$$$ NEED TWO USC STDT  Christina, or heck, even Krista at  
HAIHAI  call me: Martha 277-3894  TIX. CALL JESSE 234-3952 $$$$  HELP! HELP! HELP! HELP!  634-4220. You have to be willing to  
CUSHING AUD.  1@#$11"%'"&%#@ @#$$%  I NEED USC AND BC T!X  write at least 200 words a week on  
OCT5. BPM  Seeking in home child care lor an  If you like BASS, you'lllike this  I need tickets for BC, USC, and  as many as possible,  that soap. We're waiting ...  
FREE  adorable baby. 1-4 days/wk  150watt 15"  Navy. Please call Bryan.  students or GAs  
WRITING DEPT.  M-Th. 631-6561.  SUBWOOFER  272-4249  please call NORM @ 232-2955  Student Activities is accepting  
SKETCH COMEDY  Call4-1668  Thanks lor your Support!  applications for a Ballroom  
41NFO  GEAR UP WITH DUNHAM'S!  #@$%&"'(()"&"%#$#$  USC std tx 4 sale  ******************************  Monitor and 24Hr. Lounge Monitor.  
mmarino@ darwin.cc.nd.edu  DUNHAM'S, the leading discount  #3959  Pick up applications at 315  
retailer of sports apparel and equip­ 1993 Tercel, 2 door, stick, AC,  I have the USC tickets you need.  LaFortune. Deadline Monday,  
UTILE FLOWER HOME DAY­ ment, is seeking outgoing, ener­ AM/FM tape, 24,000 miles.  Ice Skating fans! ! have an extra  call Gretchen @ 284-5166 with your  Oct. 2.  
CARE. LOVING. STIMULATIVE  getic individuals to gear up and join  $8,600.00 Call287-0146  ticket lor a great seat for the Oct. 4  offer.  
ENVIRONMENT. MOTHER. EDU­ its winning team at our Mishawaka  show at theJACC. Call Nikki at  STEPAN COURT TIME:  
CATOR. SPECIAL DISCOUNTS.  store as:  1987 Mercury-Sable  X3878.  sale-tix book(BC,USC,Navy)  Any group requesting weekly court  
LICENSED. 284-0708.  Full & Part Time  G/Condi $2500 o/b  Sr.Sec.Best offer. 284-5231  time at Stepan lor basketball or vol­ 
ILOST & FOUND I Found: Student ticket booklet. Call  SALES ASSOCIATE Field & Stream Apparel Footwear Camping/Ski  277-3254 Urnes .--------------.~ TICKETS I._____________.  3 USC GAs FOR SALE Best offer-leave message X4983 NEED USC GA's  $'$'$'$-1 NEED 2 BC TICKETS SO BAD THAT I'll DO JUST ABOUT ANYTHING. I HAVEN'T SEEN MY SISTER IN ALMOST A YEAR AND  leyball must attend a meeting-Thursday, Oct. 5 4pm-Montgomery Theatre LaFortune For more information call Student  
Jenny S. at X4210.  General Athletics  A DEVOTED IRISH FAN NEEDS  x4233 Tara  SHE'S COMING TO SEE ME.  Activities, 631-7308.  
& Exercise  GA'S TO ANY/ALL  PLEASE! I'M DESPERATE! I WILL  
Found: Set of keys on Stepan Field  Dunham's offers competitive wages  HOME/AWAY GAMES.  I NEED GA'S MEGAN X3890  OFFER LOTS OF CASH!­ We're looking lor a few good  
on Wed. Call4-1432to identify.  and benefits including employee  219-232-0061, 24 HRS.  $*$'$'$-ERIK X3580  Mikes!! Call x0826 or x0827  
discount within a fast-paced envi­ CA family needs 3 BC GAs.  
LOST: gold necklace with cross and  ronment. For immediate considera­ Please!  WILL TRADE CHGO BEAR, CHGO  The Saint Edward's Hall Players  
heart charm inscripted "Andy" on  tion, apply in person at:  TICKET-MART, INC.  Call Clara x4826  BULL, CHGO SYMPHONY, OR  are holding  
back. Please call 0930 if loundll  DUNHAM'S  WANTED  LYRIC OPERA TIX FOR GA USC  OPEN AUDITIONS  
McKinley Town& Country Center  GA'S FOR ANY/ALL  NEED 2 NAVY GA'S. CALL TOM  OR BC TIX. 708-330-3155  For their production of  
FOUND: gold ring with features. In  2572 Miracle Lane  HOME/AWAY NO GAMES.  ATX1899.  "'One Flew Over The Cuckoo's  
parking lot next to Infirmary  Mishawaka  BUY'SELL'TRADE  "need 5 navy GA's"  Nest"*  
between Stanford and St. Michaels  (Or call (219)255-6600 for more  (219) 232-0058-24 HRS.  Wanted two to lour home game  Please call Kristy at x2270  Wed.-Thurs 8-10 p.m.  
<.  Laundry. Last week in August. Call  info)  tickets. Call or write.  @ 127 Nieuwland  
x4205 to describe and claim.  I NEED TIXS TO ALL HOME  314-731-7604  B.C. TICKETS WANTED. GA  Call Colin @ x1567 w/questions  
Is anybody looking lor travelling  GAMES.272-6306  Gary Goehl  or student. CALL after 5 p.m.  
FOUND: PRESCRIPTION GLASS­ companions or need a ride lor the  PO Box4152  277-4793. GO IRISH .  BRIAN BOITANO & DEBI THOMAS  
ES IN ST. MfCHAEL'S LAUNDRY  NIN concert in Detroit on Oct. 3??  Need 4 USC GAs & 2 BC GAs.  Hazelwood MO 63042  head a cast of world-class skaters  
DISTRIBUTION CENTER.  If interested please call me, Natalia  Please call Cheryl x4883  USC TICKET FOR SALE!  coming to South Bend in SKATE  
CLAIM BETWEEN 8 AM & 4:30 PM  X2522.  WILL TRADE 2 GA BC FOR 2 SC  CALL ANY TIME X21 08  FOR LIFE on OCTOBER 4 at 7:30  
MON-FRI.  NEED 8 NAVY GA'S $$$USC stud  GAISTDNT TX. ALSO NEED 1 OR  PM at the Notre Dame Joyce  
HELP WANTED  tic to sell X2620  2 STDNT TEX TX. DON (714) 990­ IN NEED OF 2 NAVY GA'S!  Center. Tickets are on sale at the  
Found: Reebok FB shoes 9/28 dur­ 1 0-30 hrs./flex. sched.  0890.  PLEASE CALL ANY TIME  Notre Dame Box Office or call  
ing lunch. You drove off with them  All majors/schol. avail.  Wanted: 4 tickets together -any  X2108  TicketMaster at (219) 272-7979.  
on your car. Call X3486  $10.25/282-2357  home game  I NEED TEXAS, USC & OHIO·ST  
Wanted: 2 tickets NO-USC  GA TIXS.CONFIDENT!AL272­ Sale  
Lost: Gold bracelet with colored  HELP WANTED addressing  Call 1-800-922-BEAR day  6306  USC STUDT!X  23rd ANNUAL SMC-ND  
stones. Reward. Call Lucy 4-4853  envelopes. Work at your residence  1-502·354-8826 collect in evening  Some Married  SUMMER PROGRAMS IN  
in your spare time. $250+/week  2718154  LONDON (MAY 22-JUNE 24)  
WANTED  possible! (310)804-5587 24 hrs. .  Need 1-2tix to SC game. Mel x1286  8 USC GA's NEEDED  and ROME (JUNE 16-JULY 15). TRAVEL !N IRELAND, SCOT, FR,  
Part-time writer/editor with 2 kids  ! NEED TICKETS FOR THE  2718154  GER, SWITZ, AND !TALY.  
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT­ (ages: 3,8) needs creative, ener­ NEED USC TIX!  WASHINGTON GAME.  COURSES IN PHOTO, BIO, BUEC,  
Students Needed! Fishing Industry ..  getic, child-care person who's good  CALL FRED AT 4364  CALL CHRIS 4-4204  $$  HIST, ITALIAN AND SOC.  
Eam up to $3,000-$6,000+ per  with kids. Access to car needed. 5­ Need So. Cal Tickets  MEETING-CARROLL HALL  
month. Room and Board!  8 hrs/week, late afternoons.  NEED B.C. Ticket -G.A. or S.A.  Call (717)961-3708  (SMC) OCT 3, 7:00 PM.  
Transportation! Male or Female. No  $5.50/hr. 273-1702 after 5  Please call Anne 634-3445.  FACULTY, STUDENTS, PIZZA,  
experience necessary. Call  BABYSITTER NEEDED FOR 2  ETC. INFO-CALL PROF. A.  
(206)545-4155 ext A55841  FOR RENT  NEED 3 NAVY G.A.'S. HAVE TWO STUD. USC TIX TO TRADE  $$ PLEASE HELP $$ '94 NO ALUM NEEDS  ALUMNI CHILDREN DURING THE USC GAME. ALSO NNED USC  BLACK, 284-4460 OR 272-3726  
RIDERS WANTED NY/NJ to NO  OR UPGRADE. CALL NICOLE  BC & USC STUD OR GA TIX  TICKETS. PLEASE PAGE ME AT  
I am flying home and buying a car,  X4905  CALL 516-326-2659  1-800-946-4646, PIN#5295353  May Guru Tuna Rest in Peace  
but if I drive it back alone I think I  2 BDRM HOME FOR RENT NEAR  
will probably crash it. No gas $ nee., but I need you to spell me at  CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272-6306  HELP!Need USC tickets,wi!l pay lots,call Michelle,634-2497  I would DIE 4 UW T!X! X4072  PERSONAL  Bridgette, this is John. I mean Gr... l mean what's-his-name.  
the wheel. Smokers welcome.  
Call Josh @ 277·9071  Fall Break Plans? Sell me your stu­ Need 2 BC GA'sl  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  Happy Birthday Gita! Hope it was  
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR NO  dent converted to GA tickets. Katie  Will trade 2 Navy GA's.  LaFortune Student Center  Happy!  
232-2595  X4088  Ryan x-1382  We're open for your. convenience!!!  
' ' ' FREE TRfPS & CASH ' ' '  Man-Thur: 7:30am -Midnight  Bokl!l  
Find out how hundreds of students  Sub lease available @ Turtle Cr.  NEEDED: 4 USC and 2 Navy GA  Fri.: 7:30am -7:00pm  
are already earning FREE TRIPS  for Spring sem. Call Jeff 273.4546  tickets. Call at 273-637 4  Sat.: Noon -6:00pm  I miss my mommy and daddy.  
and LOTS OF CASH with  I HAVE 4 NAVY GA'S AND I AM  Sun.: Noon -Midnight  
America's #1 Spring Break compa­ THAT PRETTY PLACE. Bed and  ..........PLEASE HELP!..*****..**  LOOKING FOR USC GA'S OR  (closed home football Saturdays)  No more fish food floor.  
ny! Sell only 15 trips and travel free!  Breakfast Inn has space available  'NEED 1 NAVY GA!'  USC STUDENT TICKETS.  
Choose Cancun. Bahamas,  for football wknds. 5 rooms with pri­ 'CALL COLLEEN AT X2191'  If you have USC tix, call  Thank you St.Jude for prayers  Cookie, Honey loves you. Your  
Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL NOW!  vate baths. Located in Middlebury,  Tom atx3893  answered.  bed WAS NOT christened this  
TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAV­ 30 miles from campus. 1-800-418­ NEED 4 WASH. TIX  weekend..  
El (800)95-BREAKI  9487  CALLX2855  Sensible shoes.  



page 15 


·'et for AL West to t)~ decided in playoff 
ing him just short of giving Seattle four 100 RBI hitters. 
The Rangers scored two more in the seventh on a sacri­fic~ fly by Frye and a bloop their second chance to win the single by Will Clark, who went AL West, losing 9-3 Sunday to 2-for-5 to fmish the season at the Texas Rangers and forcing .302. them to await the outcome of Kenny Rogers (17 • 7) started California's game to determine on three days' rest and their playoff status. allowed three runs on five hits, 
If th~ Angels lost to the two walks and three strikeouts Oaklan • tics, the in six innings. Matt Whiteside Mariners · have the first worked the fmal three innings. division· their 19-year Even if the season continues history. from an extra day for the Mariners. 
13-on Aug. 2 in a game that will statistically 
third'-best in be considered a regular-sea­son contest, Edgar Martinez and Buhner wrapped up impressive personal feats. 
Martinez went 2·for·4 to raise his average to a career­high .354, easily sealing his second batting title in the last four years. 
Buhner bas 121 RBis and 122 hits, giving him the best . RBis-to·hits ratio in baseball ers lost 9-2 Wstory. His .9918 is far bettr the AUgels than the previous best of .9592 
.~eep . by Jbp. Gentile in 1961. 
lltttn.be·r.·afot/Jr''c:"f~i~' ·Angels s, Aihletics 2 
as starter · A allowed a ANAHEIM. Calif. i:rnc~~Y"'1, •. After wasting an 11-game .. ·.· g. [h lead in ihe AL West, the to 3-1 in its California Angels rebounded to solo homer by force a one-game playoff for 
his. 4oth of the division title by beating the . birn the Oakland Athletics 8-2 Sunday. than Ken if*F TheSeattle Mariners, who 
reach that held a two-game lead on Sat· . Griffey urday morning, dropped into a .. ~ flrst-place tie by losing to the 
oost of Texas Rangers 9·3, when the plate California and Seattle, both ·Attl<~tnn aS he 
78-66, will meet Monday at the Kingdome in just the eighth regular-season playoff in baseball history. the first since 1980. Mark Langston (15-6) is scheduled to pitch for the Angels against Randy Johnson (17 -2). 
Chuck Finley (15-1.2), who beat Seattle on Wednesday to cut California's deficit to two games, allowed four hits in ·7 1-3 innings and struck out nine. 
411iedSignal 
& 

The University of Notre Dame 
A Dynamic Combination 
Invitational Interviews November 7 for: 
•BBA 
•BS/MS/PhD in AE/ME 
Resumes Due October 2&3 in Career and Placement Office 
Manufacturer of AerosRace and Automotive Products, Chemicals, Fibers, Plastics and Advanced Materials 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, October 2, 1995 
• SAINT MARY'S VOllEYBALL • MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBAlL 
Belles bounce back Legendary manager retires after 
By STEPHANIE BUEK Sports Writer 
While last Monday's dis­appointing loss to Albion College temporarily derailed the Saint Mary's volleyball team's winning streak, the Belles got back on track this weekend at North Central College. Adding two con­vincing victories over North Central and Carroll College, the t~am resumed its winning ways, extending its record to 8­5 and accumulating three con­secutive wins. 
Though the Belles dominated play on Saturday, Carroll gave them an early scare. After defeating Carroll in the first two games, 15-9 and 15-5, Saint Mary's faltered in the third, losing 1-15. 
Head Coach Julie Schroeder­Biek said that in the third game, she experimented with a different line-up, resulting in some initial confusion. How­ever, after regrouping, the Belles bounced back to win the fourth 15-10. 
"In the third game, we made mental mistakes," sophomore middle/right attack Arwen Dickey said. "We totally lost focus during that game and let them back in it. " 
The Belles came back against 

a. strong Nortl:l Central squad with the idea that the opponent is the enemy, winning in 3 games, 15-8, 15-12, and 15-10. Facing a tough North Central middle attacker, the Belles adjusted by putting up a triple block that made big hits out of the middle ineffective, thus forcing the much more man­ageable tip to the middle. 
Big East 

continued from page 20 
season for the Irish. 
With the exception of the set­ter position, as May remains the lone active setter of the team, the Irish have been able to gain some depth and experi­ence in the 'other positions in the last few matches they have played. Every player on the Irish roster has experienced playing time since the loss to Texas, an important factor for the continued success of the Irish. 
Brown cites the match against Villanova as an exam­ple of the successful team effort. 
"This was a good team win because everyone con­tributed," Brown said. 


London $289 Paris $239 Frankfurt $299 Madrid $319 Tokyo $449 Rom~ $329 
r...~,t!,~·~;~~~~"'~n~'Ni"d~~~
f::cs subjtct to chensc and/or ovalloblllty.ullfod.yfor ofMrworldwi<X dai/NIIoN. 

rillTravel~ 
1-800-2-COUNCIL (1-800-226-8624) can today for a FREE 
StudentTravels magazineI 

~'Against North Central, they played with the attitude that (Assistant Coach) Jennie and I emphasized: the other team is the enemy," said Shroeder­Biek. "We were ready to block anything and dig everything to destroy their game." 
Sophomore setter Kelly Meyer agreed that the Belles' triple block severely disabled North Central. 
"We really discouraged them. We adjusted to their middle hit and broke down their offense," said Meyer. 
Blocking was not the Belles' only strong suit Saturday. While middle attackers Sara Stroncek and Laura Schreeg combined for 13 blocks on the day, outside attackers Kelly Prosser and Meg Kelly had 25 and 23 kills, respectively. Prosser was also a standout defensively, with 34 digs. 
"Kelly had a great day," said Schroeder-Biek. "She had good, hard hits that were not only well-placed, but not even touched by a block. She was seeing holes and hitting the line." 
In past games, the Belles have used the back row attack to throw opposing blockers off track, and to surprise defend­ers who dug their heels in anticipation of a big middle attack. According to Schroeder-Biek, the Belles' effective use of the back row attack strategy makes them a unique and dangerous team. 
The Belles make a three and 
a half hour roadtrip to DePauw 
University Tuesday, and return 
home to Angela Athletic 
Facility Saturday afternoon for 
the SMC Quadragulars. 
The victory over the Wildcats was the 39th consecutive con­ference victory for the Irish. The team ended their reign in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference with a 53-13 record without having lost a conference match since the 1991 season. Their 2-0 record thus far in the BIG EAST sup­ports the first place pre-season ranking of the Irish in the con­ference. 
The Irish will look to improve their undefeated conference record this weekend as they host their first-ever BIG EAST match when West Virginia travels to South Bend on Friday. 
seventeen years with Detroit 
By DAVID GINSBURG Associated Press 
BALTIMORE 
Sparky Anderson will walk away from his job as manager of the Detroit Tigers with noth­ing but delightful memories and the hope that he will continue to be a part of the game he dearly loves. 
Anderson will announce his resignation at a news confer­ence Monday at Tiger Stadium. After winning 1,331 games and the 1984 World Series in 17 years with Detroit, he figures it's time to move on. 
"I wrote all the stories I can write in Detroit," he said, lean­ing back in a chair while smok­ing a pipe in the visitors' club­house before Sunday's finale, a 4-0 loss to the Baltimore Orioles. 
"I've got to go to another city and write," he said. "Of course, I couldn't be a writer because I can't spell." 
He can sure run a baseball team, though. Anderson, 61, has won 2,194 games with Detroit and Cincinnati, the third-highest total in baseball history behind Connie Mack and John McGraw. He is the only manager to lead two fran­chises in victories. 
But the Tigers have fall!3n on tough times lately. They fin­ished 60-84 this year, their third losing season in the last four, although Anderson said he received the same royal treatment in good times and bad. 
"I don't think any manager in the last 50 years has ever stayed in a place as long as I have and been treated that good," he said. "I've been treated like a king -and done a lot of losing." 


Itwas just a summer job. Now it's the rest of your life. 
Remember when your biggest career concern was running out of paper cups? And when it was easy to handle any summer job because it was just a summerjob? 
Now you're graduating. You want a career that will challenge you every day and offer a variety of responsibilities. You want to work where the learning curve 
doesn't flatten out after a couple of years.  
At Andersen Consulting, our challenges change  
daily, like the world in which we work. Our job is  ANDERSEN  
to help clients do what they do. Only better.  CONSULTING  
Come talk to us about a career with Andersen  ·\RJHLf{A.'\oiH f{C.,I '\ & t 0. C., (  
Consulting.  Where we gofrom here:  
Andersen Consulting IS an equal opportunity employer.  

Andersen Consulting is hosting a Career Day today from 10:00 a.m.-5:0(} p.m. Please stop by to talk with us in the LaFortune Ballroom. Casual attire is appropriate. All majors welcome. Come see how yours fits in with Andersen Consulting. 


Monday. October 2,1995 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

'15 
POW~~ 
Sponsored 6y: !Mu(tic.u{turaf'E{.ecutive Council 
MULTl CULTURHL FHLL FESTIUHL 
CULTURE 

ON THE QUAD 
October 2-6 Fieldhouse Mall 4:30-6:00 p.m. Performances By: Native American 
Club Hawaiian Club Greek Club Filipino Club 
TroopND 
Fireside Chats 
October 2-6 "Women in the Rrts" 
Notre Dame Room, LaFortune 12: 15-1 : 15 p.m. Monday:Professorlyonga Tuesday: Professor Alice Cheang Wednesday: Sonya Gernes Thursday: Diana Mythyus Friday: Jill Godmillow 
TASTE OF NATIONS 
Friday, October 6 
8:00 p.m. Stepan Center 
Entertainment by Saber Latino 
SPECIAL 
EUENTS 
October3 102 DeBartolo 7:00p.m. ' Eun-Sook Lee 
OctoberS BallRoom 7:00p.m. John Ole Tome 
1 -I 
1 
I I I 

Irish 
continued from page 20 
the winner in overtime on a header set up by a Manthei crossing pass. Manthei beat the defense in transition and placed the pass perfectly on Daws' head. 
However, that goal was made possible after forward Rosella Guerrero tied the game in the 82nd minute. Guerrero came out of a pile at the top of the penalty area and beat OSU goalie Nicole Morris to the right side for her third goal of the year. 
For the Irish, the weekend provided a wake-up call after Winning their first eight games. 
"It was a real eye opener," Coyne added. "Hopefully this will be the down part of our season. Its is better for this to happen now and enable us to come out with more fire." 
"This is going to build char­acter on the team," Maund said. "I have confidence in all my teammates and we're going to build on this." 
"The Big Green" 
2:00. 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 
"Steal Big, Steal Uttle" (PG13J · 
2:15, 5:00, 8:15 
"Hackers" (PG 13) 
2:00, 4:20, 7:00, 9:20 
"Clockers" (AJ 
2:30, 5:30, 8:30 
"Desperado" (AJ 
1:30,4:15,7:15,9:40 

The Observer • SPORTS Monday, October 2, 1995 
• MEN'S SOCCER 
Notre Dame gets back to winning ways 
By DYLAN BARMMER SportsWriter 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team continued to get back on track with a 2-1 victory over the Northwestern Wildcats this Sunday in Evanston. The win was the second consecutive vic­tory for the 5-4 Irish, and marked their first triumph on the road in their past six away games, dating back to last sea­son. 
While the Irish dominated every aspect of the game, out­shooting the Wildcats 26-9 and compiling a 10-5 edge on cor­ner kicks, they needed a pair of goals in a four minute stretch in the second half to secure a victory. . 
The Irish seemed to have the edge in the first half, outshoot­ing the Wildcats 10-4, but were unable to capitalize on more than a few chances, a trend that the Bill Lanza-less Irish squad has shown perhaps too often this season. 
"We had a lot of key opportunities in the game where we weren't able to just put the ball away," commented forward Ben Bocklage, who scored Notre Dame's game­winning goal. 
Notre Dame fmally got on the board when sophomore for­ward Scott Wells put the ball past Wildcat goalie Matt Russ at the 65:26 mark of the game, on assists from Konstantin Koloskov and Tony Capasso. The goal was the first of Wells' career, and showed that the potentially dangerous forward is continuing to regain his form following a back injury early in the season. 
Bocklage, Wells' counterpart up front, put the Irish up 2-0 with an unassisted goal just over four minutes later. Bocklage's goal came off a Northwestern turnover, and is the fifth goal of the season for the powerful freshman from St. Louis. 
The Wildcats were able to stop freshman goaltender Greg Velho's bid for his second consecutive shutout when Aaron Stolberg tallied the lone goal for the now 2-7 Northwestern squad. Stol­berg's goal came with about 
5:30 left in the game, and the Irish were able to hold off a late equalizing goal, thereby pre­serving their fifth win of the season. 
While the win was important jfor the banged-up Irish squad, the consensus following the game was that the team still needs to improve. With two games this coming weekend including a crucial Big East matchup against powerful Georgetown, the Irish need to come together as a team in order to remain successful. 
"We have the ability to beat any of these teams," comment­ed Bocklage. "We need to get focused on just coming together as a team, and we have to learn to remain focused for the entire 90 minutes of every game." 
"We have to show more of a killer instinct out there," echoed team captain Tony Capasso. 
"We need to learn to put teams away when we have the chance. Too many times this season we've tended to go up 2­0 and then just sit back. "The Irish have seen 2-0 leads against Rutgers, Indiana, and Boston College evaporate into losses in this young season. 
Notre Dame will look to con­tinue their winning streak when they play host to Detroit and Big East rival Georgetown on Thursday and Sunday. respectively. 

23rd Annual Summer Program 
NO Stu SMC dents  
[L(Q)[JO@ @ITTI [R ?.© mru®  
MCilljY 22 =  ~llil[Ji)®  2~  ~ill] [Jj) ®  ~  ~  =  ~ill] ~jY  ~  cS)  

Travel in Ireland, Scotland, & France Travel in France, Germany, & Switzerland 
Courses offered in 

Biology, Photography, Sociology, Business & Economics, History, Italian 
Organizational I Meeting -October 3 
7:00 pm Carroll Hall • Pizza Social • 
Past student and faculty participants will be present. For infornation call Prof. Black 284-4460 or 272-3726 
MEDJUGORJE 
''Our lady~ Last Call to the World!'' 
Don't Miss It% 
Sr. Emmanuel comes to Notre Dame from Medjugorje in Bosnia-Hercegovina to share the miracle from the village where the Blessed Mother continues to appear every day! 
Don't miss her tonight! 
Tonight! 7:30p.m. Hesburgh Library Auditorium 


-

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

Monday, October 2. 1995 The Observer • TODAY 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
1-bW MP-.1'-\'i A'S'S\GN\'v\E.I'{\S.' MISS CblLE.CTIClN! 
~'{. l 1-\A.TE. SCI-\OOL MI>.¥-E A LEAF 
LE.r>-1/E.S Do WoRMWOOD IS <YJT Th 'N\1r>.T f.. D\Jt-1.13 
'iOIJ f'IEEO? DE.STRO'{ tv\'( LIFE.' 'NII.'S\E. OF TIME.'
\ ;1ltt:_ 
lt£-I 
L-----------------~ 
DILBERT 
WE.'R£. POISED FOR 5UCCE.SS. WE E.XPECT HUGE. EARNINGS AND 
INCREASED M~~KET 
SHARE.' 
~ 

~--------------------J0L---~----~~------_J 
BILL WAITERSON 
l>.l'-10 JUS\ W\18'-1 I T\-10\JG\11 OF A. LOOI'I-10Lt;. , T\-1E. TEf>..C\\E.R Sf>..ID EIJER'{ LEP-1' 1-\r..'S It) BE. 
A 0\f~T ~~~C>. 
SCOIT ADAMS 
49 F. Murray--­53 Refreshment for 
007? 58 Lasso 59 In front (of) so "How much am 
--?" (auction query) 
61 Raymond of "Perry Mason" 62 -of the ball 63 Excise, as text 64 Not a copy: Abbr. 65 Business job 66 Midterm, e.g. 67 Make mad 
DOWN 
1 "Guys and--" 2 Ending with 
sacro­3 60's march site 4 Excitable 5 Had a wad of 
tobacco 6 Horse operas 1 Scheme a Pedro's hat 9 Be plenty mad 
10 Toe woe 11 Skating oval 12 "I cannot tell 
13 Track 

competition 22 Enticed 24 Ask persistently 
27 Trace 
29 His Rose was Irish 30"--Lisa" 31 Sunburn result 32 Book after John 33 Ark skipper 34 Captain for many a league 38 More secure 39 Noel season 43 Syr. neighbor 46 Kind of folder 


47 Footnote 52 Join notation 53 Uses a powder 48 Loses 
puff brightness 54 Mother of Zeus 50 Beautiful woman 55 Scream of paradise 56 Kind of bonding 51 Showery month 57 Wild goat 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
page 19 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1995 (For your personalized daily Jeane Dixon horoscope. based on your own date of birth, call 1-900-988-7788. Your phone company will bill·you 99 
cents a minute.) HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: A new job or exciting assignment beckons. Career advancement could depend on your going back to school. Joint financial matters require close scrutiny. A temporary separation may be linked to business travel. Seizing an unusual opportu­nity early in 1996 will enhance your chances for financial or political success. The travel bug bites early next summer. Romance could lead to maniage by this time next fall. CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: fashion designer Donna Karan, legendary comedian Groucho Marx. high-profile defense attorney Johnnie L. Cochran Jr., actress Lorraine Bracco. ARIES (March 21-April 19): Staying in the background is your best strategy now. Do not let your emotions run away with you. A meeting with a publisher or educator is highly productive. Your imagina­tion soars! Romance looks promis­ing. TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Today calls for sharing and coopera­tion. Show consideration. Resist the temptation to be extravagant, espe­cially if other people's assets are involved. GEMINI (May 21-June 20): The spotlight is focused on your job and business interests. Tackle a new assignment right away. There is a limit to what you can accomplish all by yourself. A major victory depends on team effort. CANCER (June 21-July 22): Aawed or garbled communications are possible this morning. Be cau­tious. Double-check instructions and financial figures. If single, you may headed for an intense conversation. LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): The legal or financial assistance you need will be made available if you are willing to compromise. Make 

Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
• 
OF INTEREST 


• 
Holy Cross Associates will be holding an Infor· ' mation Meeting for people interested in applying for the program in Chile or the U.S. today at 4:00 p.m. Themeeting will be held at the Center for Social Concerns. A brief presentation about the program's Domestic and Chile sites will be followed by questions t:rom those attending. Applications will be available. For JllOPl:'e information, call631-5521. 

• 
Juniors: Come to LaFortune's Dooley Room today at 7:00p.m. if you would like to be part of JPW's slide show. Any questions? Call Mai Ly at 634-2244. Ill The Dublin, Ireland Junior Year Abroad Program will be introduced by Professor Jim Smyth from the Department of History today at 4:30 p.m. in room 119 of DeBartolo. . . 


•MENU Notre Dame 

North South 'Canadian Pizza · Yankee Pot Roast Hun.an Sweet and Sour Chicken Corn Cobbettes 
(1alhi.n Green Beans Potato Pancakes 
·'. '· 
····Saint Mary's 
Dell Bar Chicken Patties Breaded Pork Cutlets 

important changes. Bright ideas and enthusiasm go hand-in-hand. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your progressive ideas could upset someone whose beliefs are very dif­ferent. Hang in there! You are prob­ably on the right track. Keep search­ing for lost or mislaid items. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Play­ing the role of critic is not your style. Refuse to be drawn into an argument between two friends. Pur­suing a favorite hobby helps you relax. Take a relative's advice with a grain of salt. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Your tenacity comes to the fore 
when obstacles appear. Promote 
your excellent business skills. Do 
not allow frustration or anger to 
spoil your day. Burn off excess 
energy on the tennis or basketball 
court. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
21 ): Making up for a partner's 
absence will require extra hours. 
Your rapport with your colleagues 
or children improves. Relax at home 
tonight. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 
19): Take frequent breaks today but 
stick to one project. Go out of your 
way to appease higher-ups, or avoid 
them all together. Married couples 
agree on most money matters. A 
special contest deserves investiga­
tion. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Some confusion early today will 
alert you to the need for caution and 
accuracy. Count on coming out 
ahead of the competition! Set a good 
example for your mate or offspring 
to follow. Be thrifty. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
Presenting your ideas to the right 
people boosts your chances for suc­
cess. You receive a gift or good 
news through the mail. Curb an urge 
to overindulge in food or drink. 
Self-discipline wins respect. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Chef's serving s -a plea (works a deal with the D.A.) 
9 "Skiddoo!" 14 Margarine 15 Angelic topper 16 Sheer cotton 11 Pleasant tune 18 bomb 19 Journalist Pyle 20 One in Mary's 
care 21 Hardly the life of 
the party 23 Ticket profiteer 25 "Yo·ho-ho, and 
a bottle of -" 
26 Octogenarian, e.g. 28 Bivouac 
32 Pester 35111 temper 
36 Slender instrument 37 Like many modern dorms 38 Church council 
400ueue 41 Friendly to 
humans 42 Sept. preceder 43 Having no 
drawbacks 44 Like work horses 
45 Some Belgians 48 Medical charge 


page 20 Monday, October 2, 1995 
• WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Blemished 
Notre Dame ties Cincinnati, squeaks by Ohio State in OT 
By JOE VILLINSKI Assistant Spans Editor 

Heading into the 80th minute of both their games this weekend, the women's soccer team found them­selves in an unfamiliar position. 
A position as foreign as the Ohio territory was to Irish sports teams this weekend. 
Against both Cincinnati and Ohio State, the Irish trailed by a goal with ten minutes remaining in the The ObseJVer/Mike Ruma contest. This position also signified that after eight Regan Coyne called Friday's tie against Cincinnati an 'eye opener.' The three goals given up by the Irish defense this games this season, two teams finally found a way to weekend were the first goals for a Notre Dame opponent this year. solve the tenacious Irish defense and score. 
worked really hard." until co-captain Cindy Daws scored on an assist fromOn Friday night, Notre Dame salvaged a 2-2 tie with Maund scored after the ball came out at the top of Manthei to tie the game only to see the tie vanish sixthe Bearcats of Cincinnati as reserve midfielder Julie 
the box and put it in the upper left corner of the net. minutes later. 
Maund came off the bench to score with less than two Midfielder Holly Manthei registered an assist on the "We faced a difficult situation," Maund noted.
minutes left. 

goal. "Everyone gets up to beat us and they played their"They were a lot more intense and emotional than "I was the most disappointed with the way we best. We were kind of shocked." 
we were," midfielder Ragen Coyne said. "They came played," Maund added. "We didn't play the way we Notre Dame may have also been shocked yesterdayout believing that if they played with 100 percent, were capable of." as they fell behind early again to Ohio State beforethey could win and they almost did." 
The Irish fell behind for the first time all year as pulling out the game in overtime 2-1. Daws scored"They were an average team where every player 
midfielder Paulette Angelechia scored five minutes
-played the best that they could," Maund said. "They into the game. The Bearcats maintained the lead see IRISH I page 18 

• VOllHBAlL 

Irish impressive in first Big East win 
By BETSY BAKER 
Sports Writer 

The tenth-ranked Notre Dame volleyball team made a grand entrance into the Big East confer­ence last weekend with victories over Georgetown and Villanova in its conference debut. 
The Irish improved their record to 13-1 on the year and 2-0 in the conference with a fifth consecutive three-match victory since Texas handed them their first loss of the season the previous weekend. 
The 15-11, 15-13, 15-6 Irish victory over Georgetown on Saturday handed the Hoyas their seventh loss of the season and their first confer­ence loss, making them 11-7 overall and 0-1 in tl)e Big El_l!it. _ 
Sophomore Jaimie Lee's kill campaign contin­ued to lead the Irish with 12 kills, with Junior Kristina Ervin right behind her with 11. On the defensive end, co-captain Jenny Birkner led the team in the dig column for the seventh time this season with 10. Junior middle blocker Jen Briggs collected three service aces in Irish win. 
The victory on Sunday required a little more effort of the team as Villanova made many attempts, a few being successful, at stealing the lead from the Irish. The Irish fought back from a 12-8 deficit in the third game to clinch the victorY. 15-10, 15-4, 15-12. 
"I was really pleased with the way we came back in the third game to close out the match," Irish head coach Debbie Brown said. 
"I was impressed with Villanova because they played hard and really pushed us, but we showed good patience and came back strong." 
The Irish were led again by Lee with 14 kills with fellow sophomore outside hitter Angie Harris contributing 11. Setter Carey May led the team with 12 digs. 
"Carey set a very good match today and did a great job of getting everyone involved in the offense," Brown said of the sophomore who was called to action as a starter when senior Shannon Tuttle was deemed out for the season with a shoulder injury. May ·has set every game of the 
see BIG EAST I page 16 

Football Women's Soccer 
The ObseJVer!Brent Tadsen 

Jenny Birkner (center) led the Irish in digs as Notre Dame dominated Georgetown Saturday. They topped Villanova in three games Sunday. 
aJ 
• Men's soccer defeats Northwestern 

at Washington October 7, 2:30p.m. 
vs. Connecticut October 6, 7:30 
·­
see page 18 
Volleyball 

Cross Country ~ 
vs. West Virginia October 6, 7 pm. 
Notre Dame Invitational, • Major League playoff picture 
vs. Duke October 7, 7 pm 

October 6, T.B.A. 
••riJ 
see page 15 
Men's Soccer 

SMC Sports 
vs. Detroit 

• Redskins upset Cowboys 
Volleyball at De Pauw , October 3 
October 5, 7:30p.m. 
~ 
see page 13 






