
Friday, August 25, 1995• Vol. XXVII No.5 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Rockne's House expands 'upward' 
Renovation to be finished by '97 season 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
Associat< Nows Editor 
59,075. 
It's a familiar number at the 
bottom of Notre Dame football 
game summaries found in 
newspapers. But after the 
renovation and expansion of 
Notre Dame Stadium is com­
pleted before the 1997 football 
season, the stadium capacity 
will increase to 80,990. 
The $50 million stadium pro­ject will begin after the final home game this season on November 4 against Navy. Af­·ter the Irish battle the Mid­shipmen, workers will raze the existing press box and begin adding 26 rows of seats around the stadium. 
By adding roughly 22,000 seats. the stadium moves up from 44th in seating capacity among the 106 Division 1-A football facilities to 14th. 
The additional rows will ex­
tend the stadium upward and 
outward, but Mike Smith, 
dirllctor of facilities engineer­
ing for the University. says that 
the view of Touchdown Jesus, 
the mosaic on the wall of the 
llesburgh Library facing the 
stadium. will not bll completely 
obstructed from within the fa­
cility. 
"If at the south end of the 
field you can see Touchdown 
.Jesus from rows 30 and up 
now, then you'll still be able to 
see it from about 30 more 
rows up after the expansion," 'he said. 
A new wall will be construct­
ed around the stadium, and 
the area between the new wall 
and the present wall will become the new concourse. 
"The new concourse will have an upper and lower level. and within this new expansion there will be additional re­stroom facilities and conces­sion stands." Smith told Blue & Gold Illustrated. "The existing concourse will still be there after the renovation, but it will serve as just a gathering area." 
Although the preferred seat­ing areas in the first few rows will be furnished with theater­type seats, all seats in the ex­panded area will be bleachers. These new bleacher seats will have an extra inch of space on each side and another six inches of leg room. 
Among the other changes to the stadium: 
• The new press box will be enlarged but will retain the same three levels that it now has. The press box will include up to 330 work stations, up from 240; three television 

The above drawing shows what the stadium will look like once its renovation is com­plete. The photo to the left is the stadium's present form. Renovation is scheduled to begin after this football sea­son. 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 
broadcast booths, up from one; 
and five radio broadcast 
booths, up from two. 
• 
A new natural-grass field and new goal posts will be added, and new dot-matrix scoreboards will be located on the north and south ends of the stadium. 

• 
Instead of keeping parking spaces directly around the sta­dium, that area will be land­scaped. 


see STADIUM I page 4 

College football hall opens 
By DAVE TYLER 
Nows Editor 
This weekend,a college foot­ball will open open it's show­case shrine right down the street from the home of its most celebrated team. 
South Bend becomes the home of the College Football Hall of Fame in ceremonies this weekend, including a tail­gate party, a battle of the marching bands and a fire­works and laser show. And it's all just minutes away from the House that Rockne built. 
In fact, the proximity of the South Bend College Football Hall of Fame is not just coinci­dental. Notre Dame has more representation than any other school in the IIall of Fame with 34 players enshrined. End/tackle Jim Martin, co-cap­tain of the 1949 National Championship team will become number 35 this week­end. 
Other members of the Hall of Fame's first class to be induct­ed in the new facilities include legendary Syracuse footbalVtrack/lacrosse star .Jim Brown, Stanford end Chris Buford, Louisiana State defen­sive back Tommy Casanova, Mississipi quarterback Jake Gibbs. guard Rich Glover of Nebraska, Jim Grabowski, an Illinois fullback, Penn State linebacker Dennis Onkontz, Washington guard/linebacker Richard Redman, Rutgers end Paul Robeson, Oklahoma run­ning back Bily Sims, Baylor linebacker Mike Singletary coach Frank Kush of Arizona 
see HALL/ page 4 


ND Wall of Fame celebrates student leaders 
By JAMIE HEISLER 
Nows Writ<r 
While most students are aware of the upcoming openings of the Cleveland Rock and Roll Hall of Fame or South Bends's College Football Hall of Fame, many may not be aware that in .June of this year. Notre Dame dedicated its own academic version of a Hall of Fame. 
Th•~ Wall of Fame. located in the LaFortune Student Center. honors the top leadership positions in student organizations ranging from editors of school publica­tions to class officers. Plaques engraved with the names of these student leaders line the side hallway leading to the Huddle. 
Planning for the project began as early as three years ago and was finally carried through with the help of the Student Senate and the Alumni Association who assisted the Office of Student Activities in the completion of the wall. 
According to Joe Cassidy, director of student activi­ties, "the bulk of funding came from students." The Student Senate Funding Committee provided the money to purchase the plaques as well as to engrave them. This left only the renovation of the hallway to be funded by student activities. 
ing the reunion weekend. opportunities to be recognized at receptions honoring The Alumni Association assisted by researching the Following a reception in the rotunda of the Main them on reunion weekends, the times when more names and present addresses of the student leaders Building, the invitees walked to LaFortune for the alumni would probably be present. According towhich dated back as early as the 1900's when several viewing, dedication and blessing of the plaques given Cassidy, 20 percent of those alumni on the plaquesorganizations originated. 
by Father Peter Rocco, C.S.C. would be present for reunion weekends. 
"We totally supported it from the standpoint of 
They then attended a dinner at North Dining Hall at Response to the Wall of Fame has been positive froJll encouragement," said Chuck Lennon, the executive which Professor Patricia O'Hara spoke on leadership both alumni as well as present students, according todirector of the Alumni Association. 
qualities. Cassidy. "It's nice for them to be able to come backThose alumni honored on the plaques were invited to Those alumni honored on the plaques will have other and get recognition for thankless jobs," he said. 
the dedication of the wall which was held in June dur-

~-~-.~....~.~~~~~~~~~-,----·---------­
page2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, August 25, 1995 
• Wotu.o AT A GLANCE 
paste the first brief's headline into this space 
NEW YORK 
At the stroke of .midnight, computer Something borrowed and something Blue? enthusiasts nationwide started buying 
Windows 95 will take on the appearance and many of the features found in similar operating programs by Apple and IBM. Its underlying design is for
Windows 95, signaling a new day in person­
newer computer chips, which should make it faster than the current Windows. 

• INSIDE COLUMN 
What will I tell my children? 
There seems to have been remarkably little kicking and screaming over these dormitory con­versions. when compared with those of the past. No sleep has been lost over Flanner, Siegfried and Knott the way it was lost over Cavanuagh or Pangborn. But last night, I had a dream. 
My son was turning 18, and we were making the traditional college tour. He wanted to see Notre Dame, so natu­rally we journeyed across Interstate 80 to that magical exit on the Indiana Toll Road. 
Upon arriving the traditional stops were made, the Stadium, the Library, Stonehenge. A car window sticker was even purchased at a the bookstore in hopes that admissions would send us a letter allowing us to display it prominently. Then my son, suitably awed, asked me the question: 
"Dad, where did you live on campus?" 
Well, there it was I thought. The one ques­tion I think I dreaded more than any other. Even our "man to man talk" a few years back was easier than this. 
"Over there," I stumbled, "but we probably can't get into it. Let's go to The Huddle." I was stalling. "No let's go see it!" he said wide eyed. Dreading what I knew I would find, I followed the lad. He stopped at the doorway to Flanner Office Building and laughed, "You lived in an office?" "Yes," I dejectedly replied, "but that was before the number of adminis­trators surpassed the number of students." 
The door was open, and, not without some trepidation, I walked in. I was not prepared for what I found. My son wanted to see my rooms. To my horror, I discovered that one ~as a bathroom, and one a janitorial closet, unlocked and full of toilet paper. Lastly, the room of my senior year, the one on the eleventh floor with the great view of the Dome, the Basilica, the lakes and the sunsets, was now divided into eight cubicles, thick with dust because all of Notre Dame's graduate students easily fit on floors one through seven. 
"Why did they do this to your dorm, dad?" 
I wanted to give him a good reason. I want­ed to tell him about the money the University saved, the gender balances they preserved, the Notre Dame family that the higher ups of the school had said would be happier in a smaller dorm, how Father Beauchamp had told Scholastic that Flanner and Grace didn't fit in the Notre Dame family and were social failures. Maybe it was because big dorms were tougher to police. Maybe they couldn't be sure some young coeds weren't cohabitat­ing. 
But then I thought back on all the good times I spent in Planner: the Christmas formal and the decorating of the hallways, the epic battles in interhall sports with Grace. I remembered the cookouts, the IH football games where the Flanner band led the Gamecocks in intimidating our opponents. wondered if anyone would ever hang out in the Cockpit again, or if a section would ever hold a SYR dinner in the penthouse. I wonder if these things weren't part of the Notre Dame family. 
I wondered what I would tell my kids. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

• TooAY's STAFF  
News  Lab Tech  
Gwendolyn Norgle  MikeRuma  
Ethan Hayward  Production  
Sports  David Diaz  
Mike Norbut  Jackie Moser  
Tim Seymour  Accent  
Andy Cabiness  Krista Nannery  
Viewpoint  Jenny Shank  
Meaghan Smith  Graphics  
Nicole Cook  Tom Roland  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproducrion rights are reserved. 
al computing. Or maybe it was just the high-tech equivalent of the Super Bowl ­overhyped and only interesting in the first quarter. The scene at two stores in mid­town Manhattan demonstrated this ques­tion about Microsoft Corp.'s new software for running personal computers, which was accompanied by an international promo­tional campaign that includes lighting the Empire State Building tonight in Windows 95 colors. At CompUSA, about 150 people lured by newspaper ads and free pizza lined up to watch the shrink-wrap be ripped from a pile of several hundred copies of the program. A dozen TV crews and at least that many Microsoft employees watched. The crowd jammed checkout lines for 30 minutes. But at Datavision, a compa­rably-sized superstore one block away, about two dozen people bought copies. At 20 minutes past midnight, the store was empty. 'That's what food and a little party gets," Albert Liniado, a Datavision manag­Open er, said of CompUSA's tactics. "We had a afile spurt and that was it." Similar contrasts were reported across the country. A Computer City store near Detroit drew 
Print a 
nearly 300 people, but there were only a 
document 
few dozen at a Staples store near Hartford, Conn. Nonetheless, after four years of talk­
Erase
ing about it and the biggest buildup of any 
afile
computer product, Microsoft has finally delivered a major revision to the program. 

Windows 95 
• 
from Start button 

• 
from shortcut 

• 
from desktop 

• 
from application 

• 
from application 

• 
drag to desktop printer icon 

• 
drag to desktop icon of recycling bin 


Mac OS 
Wnlows3.1
IBM OS/2 
• 
from application 


• from Apple menu 
• from application 
• 
from desktop 

• 
from alias 

• 
from desktop 

• 
from application 


• 
from application 

• from application 
• from application 
• 
drag to desktop 

• from desktop with printer icon 
menu command 
• drag to desktop 
• drag to desktop 
• Use complexicon of shredder 
icon of trash can 
"File Manager" commands 
Source: Microsoft Corp., IBM Corp., Apple Computer Inc. AP/Karl Tate 
Women's leadership program opens Air Force general reduced in rank 
WASHINGTONSTAUNTON, Va. 
An Air Force general accused in June of "inappropriate Standard dress issue at this school includes combat personal conduct" has been relieved of his command andboots, military fatigues -and white skirts and pumps. 
reduced in rank, officials said Wednesday. Thomas R.
Welcome to the Virginia Women's Institute for 
Griffith, who was a lieutenant general as commander ofLeadership, a brand-new military-type training program the 12th Air Force and the U.S. Southern Command Airdesigned to keep women out of the Virginia Military Forces at Davis-Monthan Air Force Base, Ariz.. has hadInstitute. "Anybody nervous?" Director Brenda Bryant one of his three stars taken away and has asked to retireasked the 42 freshmen gathered for orientation Tuesday. 
Sept. 1. The announcement by Gen. Joseph W. Ralston,Hands shot up from about half of the recent high school commander of Air Combat Command at Langley Airgraduates sitting in a big circle. But the charter class Force Base, Va., said Griffith was given "nonjudicial pun­faced nothing like the "hell week" that ended Shannon ishment" under the Uniform Code of Military Justice forFaulkner's bid to become the first female cadet at The "conduct unbecoming an officer." The specific allegation Citadel in South Carolina after only four days. Initiation against Griffith has not been announced publicly, but pri­at VMI and The Citadel involves freshmen getting their vately Air Force officials say the general was accused ofheads shaved and senior classmates screaming instruc­having an extramarital affair. 
tions from inches away. 
Hagman receives liver transplant Stray cows cause concern in India 
LOS ANGELES NEW DELHI 
Doctors should know within a day or so how well Larry India's worst train accident, caused by a train slam­Hagman's body will accept a new liver. The 63-year-old ming into a cow that wandered into its path, has prompt­actor was in extremely critical but stable condition late ed concern about the tens of thousands of cows allowed Wednesday night, said hospital spokesman Ron Wise. to roam freely across the country. At least 348 people "This is exactly where we want him to be at this point," were killed and hundreds were injured Sunday when an he said. Hospital personnel would not release Hagman's express train struck the cow near the city of Firozabad, condition this morning. Dr. Leonard Makowka, director and another train plowed into its rear. "This is indeed a of the liver transplant program at Cedars-Sinai Medical serious problem," Lala Ram, New Delhi's assistant com­Center, expected Hagman to recover fully. The first 48 missioner of traffic police, said of the cows roaming city hours after the surgery, which began Tuesday night and and country roads looking for shelter from monsoon ended about 2:30 p.m. Wednesday, are crucial to deter­rains. Hindus, who make up 82 percent of India's 900 mining if Hagman's body rejects the donor organ, million people, consider cows to be holy creatures. Strict Makowka said. He said the hospital's liver recipients Hindus don't eat beef and face strict punishment for pur­have an 88 percent one-year survival rate. posely killing a cow. 


ER 

Friday, Aug. 25 
Accu-Weather'"forecast for daytime conditions and high 
The Accu-Weather®forecast for noon, Friday, Aug. 25. 
Unes separate high temperature zones for the day. 
{} 
ILL 
FRONTS: 
"T""T"' ....a....a... .....-ar 
cow WARM STATIONARY 
C 1995 Accu-Wea.ther, Inc. 
Pressure ~ ~ 
H L El~[nl 0~8~ L...!U 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FlURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY Pt CLOUDY CLOUOY 
Vla Assoaafed Pntss 
Atlanta 90 73 Dallas 95 79 New Orleans 92 76 Baltimore 91 65 Denver 92 63 New York 85 64 Boston 84 61 Los Angeles 85 66 Philadelphia 86 64 Chicago 83 60 Miami 90 79 Phoen1x 106 83
Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Columbus 80 58 Minneapolis 86 67 51. LOUIS 91 69
C 1995 Accu-Weather, Inc. 

Friday, August 25, 1995 
ND folk choir publication provides Dlusic for nations 
By KIM SMITH 
News Writer 
After receiving requests for sheet music from parishes throughout the country, the folk choir is now able to share their music with English speaking countries throughout the world. 
The Notre Dame Folk Choir finalized dealings this summer for publication of the sacred music series, "Songs of the Notre Dame Folk Choir." The series con­tains a dozen of the most popular songs from the choir's collection. 
Student Co-President of the Folk Choir, Moira Donahoe, said, "The pieces are beautifully arranged and the tunes are good for congregations because people can pick them up easily." 
Preparations have been made over the past year for expected publication by World Library Publications in mid­October. As a result of the publication, the folk choir has been invited to sing at two national Pastoral Musicians Conventions. 
Composition of the series was the result 
• SECURITY BEAT 
MON., AUG. 21st 

7:11 p.m. A Flanner Hall resident reported the theft ot his wallet from his unlocked room. His wallet was later recovered In the B021C02 lot. 
9:44 p.m. Security transported an off-campus stu­dent to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a sports injury. 
9;46 p.m. Security transported a University employ­ee to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a lac· eratlon. 
TUES., AUG. 22nd 

1:28 a.m. A Breen·Phillips resident reported the theft of her loft adder from the lawn outside of her hall. 
of a combined effort by the choir's founder and director, Steven Warner, Rev. Chrysogonus Waddell, O.C.S.O., choirmaster of the Trappist Abbey of Gethsemani, and by Ellen Coman, former assistant and arranger for the choir. 
Warner's original pieces· include favorites, "Set Your Heart on the Higher Gifts," "Song of Judith" and "The Lord's Prayer." 
"Steve has an enormous amount of tal­ent, and he is so humble that he gives the choir a lot of credit for the work that he does," Donahoe said. 
Future creative efforts will all be done under the Notre Dame mast head and all will benefit the Sacred Music Program. 
Warner said he wants to insure that this first series of octaves is not the last. By working with other contributing musi­cians and instrumentalists, the folk choir continues to build on their already expanding collection. 
"This is very much a community effort. It is the work and song of a whole com­munity that is being brought forward," Warner said. 
2:44p.m. ASorin Hall resident his wallet from his room. 5:17p.m. AGrace Hall resident his wallet from his room. 8:15p.m. Security arrested a South for criminal trespass. 
The Observer/Katie Kroener 
Gimme an 'I'! 
The Notre Dame cheerleading squad prepares itself for next Saturday's home opener. 

4 Goon REASONS To CALL THE HuDDLE FoR DELIVERY 
$5 DEAL---$4 DEAL ----­

r ----------, r----------,I
I I I 
Any Large 14" Pizza Only $5 Large 14" Cheese Pizza Only $4 
I I
The Best Pizza at the Best Price 
I I
Now, That's a Deal! 
Call 1-6902 Call 1-6902 

I I
I -1I -1
COUPON EXPIRES 12/16/95 
COUPON EXPIRES 12/16/95
I-----------I­


$10 DEAL ---------­
DOUBLE DEAL
I 1 I I 
2 Large 14" Unlimited Topping Pizzas 
I I I You get 2 Large 14" 1 item I 
and a 2-liter Coke Product Only $10 Pizzas for Only $9 
Call 1-6902 

I I I I
Call 1-6902 

COUPON EXPIRES 12/16/95 
.J .J
COUPON EXPIRES 12/16/95
L L 
CALL THE HUDDLE AT 1-6902 
We'll meet or beat any competitors coupon or deal, just call us and ask. We Deliver 7 days a week-lunch, dinner and late nite. 
r---------------------­
page 4 
The Observer • NEWS 

Class of '95 soars in SAT 
By LAURA MYERS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Students are taking tougher 

classes. College-bound seniors 
are preparing better for test 
time. And maybe the nation's 
teen-agers are learning more, 
reversing two decades of edu­
cational decline. 
Whatever the reasons, the result is that members of the class of 1995 marked their best cumulative scores since the early 1970s on the Scholastic Assessment Test, making most of the long-term gains in math. 
Asian Americans remain top scorers with whites close behind, while other minority itudents have made broad gains in recent years to close the gap. 
Meanwhile, boys stayed ahead of girls, but girls are moving faster up t.he scholastic steps, according to scores released Thursday for the just­revised entrance exam, the most widely used by colleges. 
Education Secretary Richard 
W. Riley attributed improve­ments to students taking tougher classes, especially in math and science. 
But he added, "We still have a gap between students who have stronger opportunities and those who haven't. ... We still have an awful lot of work." 
The national average on the verbal test increased from 423 in 1994 to 428 in 1995, while math scores rose from 479 to 
482. That cumulative total of 910 in 1995 was the highest since 1974 when the total score was 924. 
This year, boys scored 429 in the verbal portion compared to 426 for girls. 
Among ethnic groups, whites were the top scorers, with a 448 average. 
In math, boys bested girls 503-463. Asian Americans were the top scorers, with a 538 average. 
In 1994, the name of the examination was changed to the Scholastic Assessment Test from the Scholastic Aptitude Test. 
Other changes were made, too: The 1995 test was greatly modified to emphasize reading comprehension and math problem-solving over multiple­choice questions and rote memorization. Students also can use calculators, and they have 15 more minutes to solve problems on each test. 


Nine-year old kills sister in anger 
By MARTHA IRVINE 
Associated Press 
OREGON CITY, Ore. 

A 9-year-old boy punished his little sister for refusing to go to her room by shooting her to death with their father's hunt­ing rifle, authorities say. 
Prosecutors charged Brandon Roses with the juvenile equiva­lent of murder over the objec­tion of his parents, who insist he didn't mean to kill 5-year­old Charolette. 
"A 9-year-old cannot even comprehend taking somebody' s life on purpose," said B1andon's mother, Laurel Roses. 
But prosecutors contend that Brandon, now 10, killed his sis­ter in a fit of anger. 
A hearing continues today to determine if Brandon should be removed from his home for at least 30 days for a psychiatric evaluation. His family wants him to stay home or with an aunt while he gets counseling. The family has been seeing a therapist recommended by their church. 
Mrs. Roses testified Wednes­day that she left Brandon in charge of his sister and 6-year­old brother on June 23 while she took their three older sib­lings to a dance rehearsal. 
Brandon became annoyed with Charolette and told her to go to her room, hut she re­fused. 
He then took the empty rifle from his father's closet and loaded it with shells that he found in one of his brother's foot lockers. 
Mrs. Roses cried on the wit­ness stand as she confirmed prosecutors' account of the killing. 

w~-~ ~ 
direct from COUNTY GALWAY IRELAND will provide Via a Colorful show of A Traditional Irish Musi~ Ceili Dance, Folk Singing and

TASTE 


Storytelling
OF IRELAND... 

Sep_tember 14th -7:30 p.m.
Nctu DMM Jcyu ~ 
Tickats: $18.50 & $15.00 Tickat& naw an sala at .Jayca Canlar Box Dllica and thru aD Tickabnastar Dutlats. To charga by phana: 219-272-7979 
Brandon, seated at the de­fense table with his father, of­ten looked bewildered during the hearing. The towheaded boy flashed an occasional smile at family members and friends who packed the courtroom. 
"This is a real sensitive little boy, and they're just destroying his life," said Brandon's grand­father, Ramon House. 
''The little boy knows he dis­obeyed his parents. He feels real bad about it." 
But Detective Craig Roberts testified that Brandon's fourth­grade teacher said he had be­come defiant and confronta­tional over minor issues in the months before the shooting. Brandon also allegedly threw rocks at his younger brother, Marshall. 
"The family was an accident waiting to happen," Roberts recalled the teacher as saying. 


Friday, August 25, 1995 


Hall 
continued from page 1 
State. 
The class of 1995 will be 

inducted as part of a ribbon 
cutting and dedication ceremo­
ny Friday beginning at 1:30 
p.m. ESPN2 and local television will be providing live coverage of the event. After the official dedication of the new building, the doors will open to the pub­lic at approximately 3:30. 
Last night the weekend kicked off with a Gala Reception and Dinner held at the Century Center. An esti­mated 1, 700 people attended including the Irish Guard. 
Perhaps the largest private project in the history of South Bend, the Hall of Fame's open­ing comes after years of work and planning and doubts about financing. This summer's securing of Burger King and Alka-Selktzer as sponsors, and this week procurement of the sponsorship ofCoca-Cola and the United States Postal Service help put the Hall on solid fiscal ground. 
The 58,000-square-foot facil­ity will house interactive dis­plays with more traditional sculpture, theaters and exhibits immortalizing college football's greatest moments, coaches and players. The Hall of Champions contains memo­rials to the 608 players and 121 coaches enshrined in the College Football Hall of Fame {not including this year's 13 inductees). 




Stadiu01 
continued from page 1 
• Additional parking spaces will be added to the south of the stadium to compensate for the 22,000 additional specta­tors. 
Construction will continue through the 1996 football sea­son, but precautions will be taken to ensure the safety of everyone entering the stadium, Smith said. 





"Consider the cost of room and board for the next several years. Now, consider $298* per month at North Shore Club" 
A great investmentfor students, parents and alumni. 
• 
Condominiums and townhomes as low as $49,900 

• 
Just minutes from Notre Dame 


Furnished models on display

• Vacation home for game weekends 
Thursday through Monday 1-5 P.M. 
• 
No exterior maintenance or by appointment 

• 
Beautiful waterfront settings 



for more information 

Angei£1 at the St. joseph River in South Bend 'M<xJ~IiyJ13)1TK,Mf P.andl.ha.-<'!!OIIapurch.J!;e priccof$1'J,90ll•~~urx."""'Janda.~~)Clr7%A.RM. Call (219) 232-2002 
Friday, August 25, 1995 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 5 

Clinton enjoys vacation 
President 
braves big rapids 
By RON FOURNIER 
Associated Press 
JACKSON, Wyo. 

Here's a headline the White House has longed to see: President Clinton has survived whitewater. 
Trouble is, that's whitewa­ter with a small "W" and big rapids -not the ongoing criminal investigation stem­ming from an old Arkansas land deat·called Whitewater. 
Still, the political homonym prompted some presidential whimsy as he whipped through the roller-coaster water of the Snake River with his wife and daughter Tuesday. 

Poll reveals response to tobacco dilemma 
By HOWARD GOLDBERG 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Although most Americans want tobacco companies to help battle teen-age smoking, they oppose a ban on market­ing cigarettes through colorful ads, T-shirts and sporting events, an Associated Press poll found. 
With the goal of cutting teen­age smoking in half, President Clinton on Aug. 10 ordered the Food and Drug Administration to strictly regulate cigarette sales, advertising and promo­tion. The FDA could begin writing the regulations in November unless stopped by a tobacco industry court chal­lenge or Congress. 
According to the poll of 1,007 adults taken Aug. 16-20, 73 percent support Clinton's proposal that the tobacco industry be required to spend $150 million a year on a cam­paign to discourage teen-age smoking. 
Even 65 .percent of smokers support that idea, which the tobacco industry is fighting as an illegal tax. 
But 58 percent reject a ban on tobacco brand names on T­shirts or in sporting events such as auto racing's Winston Cup or the Virginia Slims Ten­nis Tournament. And 53 per­cent oppose allowing only black-and-white text -no color or pictures -on tobacco billboards and in cigarette advertisements in magazines that many young people read. 
People on both sides of the volatile issue found encour­agement in the poll results. 


r-~§;\~/[]ffi'&~, 
HOURS: Monday -Thursday 7 am to 10 pm • Friday 7 am to 1 pm • Saturday 9 am to 7 pm • Sunday 9 am to 5 pm 
21 Tans For $2 

IRI.LAND SQUAll£ 
OUTPOST CDitER 
NOTRE DAME 
277-1166 
W..WnB diSbtnce from N.D. 
Mulf be Ill or--... an. per a...._. 

291-8488 258-9185 Hol~wtdl<~~tyoehefof'IKEKprill•11-115-9t'l
L 
Forbes encouraged to run for president 
By RITA BEAMISH 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Publishing magnate Malcolm Forbes Jr. says hundreds of people are encouraging him to run for president, in a bid to fill a "void and vacuum" in the Republican field. 
But he is undecided about whether to put his business on hold, subject his family to cam­paign and pour millions of dol­lars of his own money into the race. 
He's given himself a Septem­ber deadline to decide, but said in an interview from New York that, "The vision hasn't come yet." 
Forbes, 48, said he would be "an outsider running against what you might call the politi­cal class." He has no political background, but served as a Reagan and Bush appointee to head the commission oversee­ing Radio Free Europe and Ra­dio Liberty. 
He said he has received hun­dreds of letters of encourage­ment since making public his thought of running. And noth­ing has happened over the past several weeks to make him feel better about those in the GOP primary race. "The void and vacuum are still there," he said. 
He particularly criticized the Senate, home of four presiden­tial candidates including Majority Leader Bob Dole of Kansas, for failing to pass a tax cut and other reforms. 
If he enters the race, Forbes said he will spend "what it takes" of his fortune to com­pete with candidates raising more than $20 million this year and supplementing that with federal matching funds next year. By using his own money, he would have to forgo matching funds. 
Forbes has sought out party operatives and advisers since supply-side economics enthusi­asts, led by economic consul­tant Jude Wanniski, began urging him on. He said he never entertained the notion until Wanniski came to him. 
"Steve is a kinder, gentler Ross Perot," said Wanniski. 
Forbes has consulted with former Reagan strategist John Sears and North Carolina political veterans Carter Wren and Tom Ellis, along with long­time friend and Readers Digest editor Ken Tomlinson and Bill Dal Col, president of Empower America, the conservative group of which Forbes is board chairman. 
Also on board is Virginia pollster John McLaughlin. He left his firm, which is working for front-runner Dole, so he could help Forbes. 

Analysts forecasting economic resurgence 
By MARTIN CRUTSINGER 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The economy, after grinding to a near standstill, will be revived this fall by a resur­gence in consumer spending on big-ticket items such as houses and furniture. 
That's the hope, at least, of economic forecasters. But they concede that the risk of a recession is still very real if, for some reason, consumer confi­dence begins to wobble. 
The most pessimistic fore­casters are contending that a glut of unsold products will force more cutbacks in factory production and virtually guar­antee a recession next year. 
The pessimists got support for their views on Thursday, when the government reported that orders to factories for big­ticket durable goods skidded 
1.7 percent in July, the fifth decline this year. 
Elliott Platt, chief economist at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Securities in New York, saw ominous signs in the factory orders report, particularly in the component that measures orders by businesses for new capital goods such as comput­ers and machinery. 
Strength in this category has been a driving force behind the current expansion. 

Raise Your Scoresl Satlslactlon Guaranteed Small Classes • Dynamic Instructors Practice Testing • Free Extra-Help (800) !-REVIEW ~~CETON .,.,REVIEWlniD clllclll~ The Princeton Review i! not affiliated wilh Princeton University or E.T.S.  

------------~~-------------­
page 6 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Friday, August 25, 1995 
Iraqi advanced arms Bosnian troops block U.N. 
By LIAM McDOWALL with Hasan Muratovic, the ever, no government assur­

program discovered 
Associated Press Bosnian minister for relations ances to allow the withdrawal 
U.N.: Warfare reveals efforts ofdestruction 
By BOB SEAVEY 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS 

Iraq had missiles and bombs laced wi.th germ warfare agents ready for use during the Gulf War, and its program to build other weapons of mass destruction was larger than suspected, a U.N. weapons inspector disclosed Thursday. 
Allied forces during the Gulf War suspected Iraq had biological weapons, but it was never proven. 
Toxins were contained in "scud missile warheads, rock­ets, and gravity bombs," said Charles Duelfer, spokesman for the U.N. Special Commission on Iraq. 
Iraq has also acknowledged it developed more of the germ agents-anthrax and botulism -than it previously said, and that production occurred at more sites, said Duelfer. 
Commission chief Rolf Ekeus will brief the Security Council on Friday on the new disclo­sures, which were made by Iraq over-the past week. 
The revelations will depict an Iraqi arms program far more advanced and aggressive than was previously known, U.N. of­ficials said. Ekeus' report will play a major role in determin­ing whether debilitating trade sanctions against Iraq are lift­ed, a move the United States has adamantly opposed. 
The United Nations is de­manding that Iraq fully disclose all its efforts to produce weapons of mass destruction before it lifts an oil embargo, which was imposed along with trade sanctions in 1990 after Iraq invaded Kuwait. 
Iraq has complained that the sanctions are wreaking havoc on its economy and people. 
The team of U.N. weapons in­spectors led by Ekeus collected Iraqi documents that fill 130 footlockers, Duelfer said. "It's literally hundreds of thousands of pages. Now the task ahead is enormous with respect to veri­fying what the Iraqis say," he said. 
Iraq claimed earlier this month that all its information on weapons of mass destruc­tion had been turned over. 
It demanded the sanctions be 
lifted by the end of the month 
or it would no longer cooperate 
with weapons monitors. 
But the recent defection of 
the head of Iraq's arms pro­
gram to Jordan apparently 
prompted the government to 
invite Ekeus to review docu­
ments it claimed the official, Lt. 
~eb 'n ~reafifast ~egistr.Y 
South Bmd's First &gistry ofPrivate Homes1fil: Saving Partnn anti Fritnds ofNorr'-Dame and ~ Saint Marys Colkgt-Try tht OPTION! 
Enjoy a •Home Away from Home • 

Pcrfecc for Graduation, Football, JPW, Freshman Oricmarion, Reunions Wdmo L. Behnke (219) 291-7153 
Gen. Hussein Kamel al-Majid, had concealed. 
Ekeus traveled to Amman, Jordan, this week following his Baghdad visit and met with al­Majid to cross-check Iraq's dis­closures. 
Ekeus refused to give details of that meeting. 
Iraq has previously claimed its arms program wasn't ad­vanced enough to deliver bio­logical weapons during the Gulf War. 
"They continued to state em­phatically that they did not use any of these. They were afraid of retaliation" from the u.s.­led alliance that ousted Iraq from Kuwait, he said. 
U.N. officials are also investi­gating Iraqi efforts to build nu­clear and chemical weapons. 
But Ekeus' major findings concerned biological weapons and missile production, Duelfer said. He said the Iraqis were also able to produce engines for the scud missiles. Investigators had believed all scuds and their parts came from the former Soviet Union. 
Iraq admitted for the first time in July that it had stock­piled biological agents after 
U.N. inspectors found evidence. Iraq has now admitted to pro­ducing a much greater quan­tity, though Duelfer said he didn't know how much. 
Ekeus has also discovered that, contrary to Iraqi claims that the toxins were produced at just one site, biological war­fare agents were under production at five locations, said Duelfer. 
The International Atomic En­ergy Agency, which is investi­gating Iraq's nuclear potential, on Thursday refused to confirm news reports that the new dis­closures show Iraq was much closer to developing a nuclear weapon than officials realized. 
SARAJEVO 
Bosnian government troops blocked the further withdrawal of U.N. peacekeepers from the Gorazde "safe area" on Thurs­day, demanding payment for the pullout. 
The United Nations, mean­while, sought to ensure a con­tinued U.N. presence in the government's last remaining eastern enclave. 
It said a team of about a dozen unarmed U.N. military observers would deploy to Gorazde before the last peace­keepers left. 
But the international aid agency Doctors Without Bor­ders accused the United Nations of abandoning its pledge to protect Gorazde and the remaining U.N. "safe areas" in Bosnia. 
A group of 58 Ukrainian peacekeepers left Gorazde late Wednesday. 
Their commanding officer, Lt. Col. Nikolai Batalin, and an aide remained behind because of a "contractual problem" with local authorities, said Maj. Myriam Sochacki, a U.N. spokeswoman. She would not elaborate. 
A U.N. official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said government troops were de­manding $13,350 in rent and for environmental damage al­legedly caused by the Ukraini­ans. 
The Bosnian government also had not granted permission for the withdrawal of Gorazde's remaining peacekeepers -169 British and 10 Norwegians. 
The U.N. official said money was an issue in that with­drawal, too. 
The British commander of 
U.N. forces in Bosnia, Lt. Gen. Rupert Smith, met Thursday 


INDIANAUNIVERSITY 
r--­
SOUTH BEND 
CONTINUING EDUCATION 
English as a Second Language 
INTENSIVE PROGRAM OF STUDY 
• 
Improve active use of written and spoken English 

• 
Understand verbal and non-verbal differences in communication between cultures 

• 
Develop and improve listening, speaking, reading and writing skills 

• 
Receive individualized attention 


August 28 through Dec. 8 
8:30 a.m.-12:30 p.m. Monday through Friday Call 237-4261 for information 

with the United Nations. 
"The aim is to withdraw all troops from Gorazde by the 31st of August," said Lt. Col. Chris Vernon, a U.N. spokesman. 
"We are now running behind schedule, but we are hopeful that we will obtain the go­ahead from the Bosnian gov­ernment today." 
By Thursday evening, how-
had been given, U.N. officials said. 
It was unclear whether the demands for money were sim­ply a ruse to keep a U.N. peace­keeping presence in the en­clave, southeast of Sarajevo. Bosnian army officials have claimed they can defend the area, but they are surrounded by better-armed Serb forces. 
D Bosnian government­Wl Croat-Serb and Groat federation Bosnian-Serb


BACK TO SCHOOL SAVINGS AT 







Lechters 
HOUSEVVARES 
UNIVERSITY PARK MALL 
PRESENT THIS AD BETWEEN AUGUST 19TH AND SEPTEMBER 12TH AND RECEIVE 

20% OFF 
PURCHASES OF $20 OR MORE. 

LECHTERS 
YOUR BACK TO SCHOOL HEADQUARTERS! 271-0723 

F4"iday, August 25, 1995 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page? 
Wu's release affects U.S.-China relations 
Suspected spy allowed to leave after conviction 
By CHARLENE FU 
Associated Press 
BEIJING 

Chinese-American human rights activist Harry Wu, de­tained two months ago on spy charges, was on his way home Thursday, expelled from China just hours after he was con­victed and sentenced to a 15­year term. 
His speedy expulsion removes a major obstacle to il)1proving relations with the United States, which have sunk to their lowest level since diplomatic ties were estab­lished in 1979. 
It also raises Beijing's inter­national profile as it prepares to host a U.N. conference on women that is expected to draw nearly 40.000 delegates from around the world. 
U.S. Embassy spokesman Hobert Laing said Wu left Shanghai on a Chinese airliner bound for San Francisco, where he was expected to ar­rive Thursday evening. 
llis sudden release took his wife, Ching-Lee Wu, by sur­prise. 
"I am too happy to really tell my feelings," she said, smiling as she spoke briefly to reporters on the front lawn of their home in Milpitas, Calif., near San Francisco. 
Wu spent 19 years in Chinese labor camps before emigrating to the United States in 1985. Beginning in 1991, he made four clandestine trips to China to research, document and film abuses in China's extensive "reform-through-labor," or laogai, system. 
His television documentaries showing widespread use of prison labor to manufacture exports and the transplanting of organs from executed pris­oners earned him international attention, and he became a fre­quent witness at congressional hearings on China's human rights abuses. 
Wu, 58, was taken into cus­tody on June 19 as he at­tempted to enter China a fifth time, this time at a remote bor­der crossing with Kazakhstan. 
He went on trial Wednesday in Wuhan Intermediate Peoples Court, said a State Department official in Washington, and was convicted of spying and steal­ing state secrets. 

Expulsion provides hope for future 
Political battles prevent further improvement 
By CHARLES HUTZLER 
Associated Press 
BEIJING 

When Harry Wu crossed into bleak northwestern China two months ago, the human rights activist stepped into the politi­cal landscape of deteriorating Sino-U.S. relations. 
Wu's arrest at the border on June 19 put a human face on the troubled bilateral relation­ship and deep-seated ideologi­cal differences between the two nations. 
A Chinese court this morning sentenced Wu to 15 years in prison for spying. Hours later, he was expelled from the coun­try, according to the gov­ernment-run Xinhua news agency. 
His expulsion could mitigate the damage to Sino-American relations -described by Xin­hua on Wednesday as at their "lowest ebb" since 1979. But domestic political battles in both capitals are likely to block any further improvement. 
An American undersecretary of state, Peter Tarnoff, travels to Beijing on Friday to try to ar­rest the slide in relations. Chi­nese Foreign Ministry spokesman Chen Jian said China hopes the visit will be a "concrete step forward." 
Sino-U.S. ties began faltering after China's military crushed pro-democracy demonstrations in 1989. While much of the Communist world moved to­ward democracy in the next few years, China continued to suppress dissent, jail activists and confound American expec­tations of reform. 
Against the backdrop of mu­tual distrust, arguments flared over human rights, trade and arms control. 
In May, relations worsened further when the White House allowed the president of Tai­wan, the island China regards as a renegade province, to at­tend a college reunion in the United States. 
The White House decision, made over Chinese objections, unleashed bitter official denun­ciations of the United States for trying to contain China's aspirations as a regional power. 
As China sees it, Washington has blocked its entry to the World Trade Organization, carped about sales of arms and 


Women's conference considered 'chaotic' 
:10:: Women's · ,. average wage 
fu:,: Men's wtAge "' 1Oil 
IW -100 
T~~~~ ~ ... <CVJetnam ~c~~!\irit~''~rance a.,.,.. ... 80E\!titfwWZiip; ·....u.s. 
Spain.,. Ecuador .Sib'""" Canada 
China·~·,.... · 60 
Korea..,.. 

Bangladesh 

40 
20 
--~-0 
AP 



FRIDAY AUGUST 25 
WASHINGTON HALL 
q...... ~ 
l1as appeaReD 011 has appeaReD on 
•HBO's 
Russel S1mmons' Dq ComeDy )am • Fox's "In L!Vln(/ ColoR" 

•
Shownme ar rhe Apollo • MTVs "Coo:nkaze"



JIJZ, 
STUDENT UNION IOAilD

•Liprown ComeDy Cluk • ComeDy CenrRaL's "SranD Up SranD Up" 
nuclear technology while carry­ing on its own lucrative arms trade and encouraged anti-Bei­jing activists in Tibet, Taiwan and China. 
To hard-liners in the Chinese leadership, Harry Wu was part of the U.S. plot because his U.S. passport identified him as "Peter H. Wu," a name he rarely used. Chinese officials called it an illegal alias. 
Any short-term improvement rested on how Chinese authori­ties handled Wu's jail term and expulsion. The United States pressed for him to be expelled on humanitarian grounds. 
The quick expulsion may al­low first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton to attend the U.N. wom­en's conference in Beijing this September, something China's leaders are believed to want. 
In the long run, however, both nations are governed by leaders who place domestic concerns ahead of foreign pol­icy. 
President Clinton faces an uphill battle for re"election in November 1996 after his Democrats lost control of Congress in January. His China policy will be constrained by pro-human rights Democrats whose support he needs and pro-Taiwan Republican chal­lengers he must defeat. 
By KATHY WILHELM 
Associated Press 
BEIJING "Equality, development and peace" is the slogan of the 

U.N. World Conference on Women, but hosts and guests I alike are picking a fourth word 1
,
to describe the impending ,event: chaotic. ,Housing is not ready. No one 1has schedules. Small groups of women are 
1
wandering around the airport, 

1 
looking in vain for their greet­

1 
ing parties. 

The first women delegates to 1 the official conference and the 1 companion Non-Governmental Organizations Forum are l arriving to find Beijing still in 1 1the final throes of difficult 
1
preparations. 

1
"We had a letter promising 

1
they would take us from the 

1
airport but when we came yes­terday . we waited three hours," said Alicia de Lucio, member of a delegation of 40 Argentine women. 
Worse yet, the group learned its Jiving quarters won't be ready for days. 
If the visitors are confused, the hosts are nervous. 
CINI"MAIU\ lHFAJ~I S 
•Lirllllllllllla(10 !.11, 4:31, 7:11, t31 
•IN
WillY l OJSl 1:11i, 3:15, 5:H, 7:31, t41 

•A 
IW II Kill A*'l 2(PG) 1:15, tll, 5:25. 7:..til 

•DI...,
Cllll* (PC) Ul,Uli,Ui.1:25,I:Jii 

•A 
Wik IIDI Clllll (PG-13) 1:11, 3:D.Ii:41, 7:ii, 1t11 ·•1111111* (10 1:25, 3:41, 5:51,1:11, 11:21 


(G) 1:15, 3:11,1i:15, 7:21,1:21 •...._..(PG-13) U5, Ui,li:4i,7:6, t4i, 
•IIIII II Dl...(PC) 1:21,3:l5,li:JI,Hli,Iii •lllir-~(II) 1:11, 3:l5,1i:31, 7:lil, 11:11 
...... 
~17:1 All $fATS IH:fom Pl.\ 
• 110 PAS~~E:, ~UPlll~~\ tR; /.( C[PTD 

-,-, ----~----------­
-----------------,-. 
page8 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Friday, August 25, 1955 
Flight attendant praised for crash composure 
By A.J. HOSTETLER 
Associated Press 
CARROLLTON, Ga. 

A flight attendant with the efficiency of a drill sergeant tested terrified passengers one by one to ensure they knew how to brace themselves and calmly pointed out the emer­gency exits as a crippled com­muter plane lurched toward a hayfield. 
"I can't imagine anybody being more calm and purpose­ful in doing her job," passenger Byron Gaskill said Wednesday from his home in Monroe Falls, Ohio. "She was extremely ter­rific." 
Robin Fech, 37, was the only flight attendant on the twin­engine Atlantic Southeast Air­lines plane when it crashed Monday after the left engine failed. 
Five of the 29 people on board were killed, including the pilot. 
Injured herself once the plane hit the ground, Ms. Fech hollered at others who were on fire to roll over and used pieces of her own clothing to help those hurt. 
"Because of her, folks inside the cabin remained clam. No one was screaming.... We did not panic," said another pas­senger, Air Force Maj. Charles LeMay of Bellevue, Neb. 
Ms. Fech, who is from Warner Robins and has been with the airline for 2 1/2 years, remained in Tanner Memorial Hospital with a broken arm and cuts. She has declined to talk to reporters. 

Seven others remained in critical condition with burns. 
In the nine minutes between a loud bang and the crash itself, the flight attendant never raised her voice and made ev­ery passenger demonstrate the doubled-over crash position to her, correcting them when they did it wrong, LeMay said. 
Passengers said Ms. Fech "behaved like a drill sergeant" in preparing them for the crash, according said John Hammerschmidt, who is lead­ing the National Transportation Safety Board investigation. 
As the Embraer 120 turbo­prop grazed treetops and sharply descended, she pointed out exits and even lowered the shade on a passenger's window so he couldn't see out. 
She also made some passen­gers change seats so the most able-bodied were closest to the emergency exits. 





VIEWPOINT 
Friday, August 25, 1995 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
John Lucas 

Mamging Editor Business Manager 
Elizabeth Regan Joseph Riley 
Advertising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor .......•.......... Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ....................... Ryan Malayter Spons Editor.•.............••............ Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ...•............•........ Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor .................................. Rob Finch Observer Marketing Director .......... Perc Coleman Saint Mary'• Editor .................... Paui Carson Controller .............................................. Eric Lorge 
New. Editor '·······························David Tyler 
The Observer i• the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of rhe majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor. News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, leners and Inside Columns prcsC'm rhc views of rhe authors, and nm necessarily those of The Observ<r. Viewpomr space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through lcrtcrs is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• I AM Nor APorreo PLANT 
Opus Dei: Misunderstood Catholicism 
·This is an article about a group or whatever. And perhaps I should reit­house, and give financial support to the Finally, and not least, Opus Dei 
within the Catholic church called erate: they can get married, etc., etc. (no house (if you wonder why Opus Dei gets tends to recruit people (like us?) "Opus Dei" (Latin for "Work of God"). I small benefit, eh?). described as "wealthy," it's mostly who are college educated and well otT. suspect that many of you have heard Let me describe the order to you, as because of these members, who con-Essentially, they're elitist. Opus Dei does something about this group. This article best I know (anyone who knows more tribute heavily). Other Opus Dei mem-some service work (and some of it good, will attempt to describe Opus Dei (for can write in and correct me). Opus Dei's hers stay celibate, and end up becoming let me hasten to add), but this is not the those unfamiliar with it). and to explain main way of attracting people to the priests. focus of the group. The focus of Opus the problems I see with the group. 
he Opus Dei organization is inter-Dei is upon personal spiritual growth, 
To begin with, Opus Dei is a "personal T esting, and I could go on. But for members in the group. The image I prelature" of the Pope, which means before this starts getting anyone inter-would use is of a football team that goes that ultimately, Opus Dei answers to the ested, I should tell you the problems I've into a huddle, and never comes out to Pope alone. Most religious orders, like seen with it. To begin with, Opus Dei make the next play. 
Chuck the Holy Cross, or the Benedictines, are intentionally does not ------------When you add togeth­answerable to the local bishop. Pope advertise its presence, er the elements I have John Paul II has decided that Opus Dei here or anywhere. The 'opus Dei tends to just described, the result should be give more favorable treat­reason that Opus Dei . l is a group which, though ment, and the reason is clear. The Pope would give (if you could recrUit peop e dynamic, is not good. likes Opus Dei. Well, I don't. I don't like get one out of them) is (like us?) who are col-Combining elitism and to disagree with the Pope, but he isn't not secrecy, but simply a lege educated and well secrecy leads to a cult­infallible about everything, and this order is through "Opus Dei houses." low-profile, ordinary like sense that members time, I think he's wrong. Opus Dei houses are located near col-type of lifestyle. off. Essentially, they're are specially called, and 
The media tends to describe Opus Dei lege campuses all around the country, Whatever their reason, elitist. Opus Dei does that others are not. as "ultra-conservative." While this though they are unadvertised (some the result is a strange When secrecy and blind description is mostly true, I think that would say secretive). There are in fact semisecrecy, in which some service work, but obedience are com-the politics of Opus Dei are beside the two Opus Dei houses near Notre Dame, people reveal their iden-this is not the focus of bined, there's a tenden­point. Sure, Opus Dei one for men, one for women. I don't tity as Opus Dei mem-h c f cy toward authoritarian-teaches people not to know about the hers only to certain peo-t e group. The lOCUS 0 ism. Combining obedi­have sex outside of mar-women's house, but the ple (generally, when Opus Dei is upon per-ence and elitism has the riage, and not to have Opus Dei men's house they're asking those 1 · 't 1 wth effect of making mem-
Roth 

abortions, and to go to 'Waat's weird is called "Windmoor," people if they would be sona Splri ua gro · hers ultra-protective of Mass often, and to go to and is on Notre Dame interested in the organi-The image I would use the group. confession. But there's about Opus Avenue (in case you're zation). is of a football team I was prepared to sup-nothing wrong with all Dei is its organization. curious). Students can Another problem, port Opus Dei, because I 
that. All that says is that live· in Opus Dei houses related to that, is that that goes into a· huddle, could not imagine that a Opus Dei is an orthodox It's not a bad idea, in without officially join-the normal looking peo-and never comes out to Church-supported group group, which is all right theory. Especially after ing the organization. ple in Opus Dei general-could be so screwed up. by me. There are Opus Dei ly submit themselves to make the next play.' But 1 cannot. So much of 
l AThat's weird about Vatican II, it must have priests living in the the spiritual direction of what I love about 
V V Opus Dei is its seemed like a good Opus Dei houses, and the priest in residence. Catholicism -the universality, the organization. It's not a their task is to give res-That may sound innocuous enough openness, the combination of people bad idea, in theory. idea to have a religious idents spiritual advice (though weird), but it has strange rami-from all social strata -is antithetical to Especially after Vatican group for "lay-people".' and counselling. fications. Opus Dei people may be the reality of Opus Dei. However much I II, it must have seemed Opus Dei people can encouraged not to associate with certain respect and admire their goal of person­like a good idea to have a end up in this stage for people (this happened to a friend of a! sanctity, I cannot support a group religious group, not just a long period of time. mine), or encouraged to become some-which achieves that goal by means for monks, nuns, and ----------------------Many Opus Dei mem-one's friend. To non-Opus Dei types, this which divide the Church. I think that the priests, but for "lay-people." You or I, hers end up living in celibacy for several may appear as manipulation. I don't Pope will someday agree with me. without taking any vows of celibacy, years before discerning that the priest­attribute this motive to Opus Dei, but the could become members of Opus Dei. hood is not for them. They then go otT impression seems inevitable given the Chuck Roth is a third year law stu­Members of Opus Dei can be out func-and get married. Married members of group's approach. dent. tioning in society, as students or lawyers Opus Dei attend certain meetings in the 
•  000NESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  
MR. PR£S!Clt:NT, I THINK l'V& GOTANARGUMENT HERe YOU'U... FINV/~SISTI8te!  M()()lA/ MUOIO MOOL..A ! ANV7H&I?E'5 tcJ7l3 M0/?13 t-f/H/3R& 7HI~ t:OM/33 fROM! ANVI /?0 M&AN toT5!  
~  

• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"What is a weed? A plant whose virtues have not yet been discovered." 
-Ralph Waldo Emerson 

................. -..... & ................... . 

By ANNE DELANEY 
Accent Writer 
lava lamp ~earing a wool glove sits on 
the counter next to a jar of chocolate 
covered biscotti, a bowl of green apples 
and a stack of ashtrays. On the far wall 
an autographed photo of Mike Ditka 
smiles. A rickety set of shelves holds an assortment of books and a stack of board games, Candyland on top. The cover of a tabloid shouting, "Midget Trapped 10 Hours in Wife's Spaghetti Sauce Wrecks 16-Year Marriage" shares bulletin board space with a coloring book Grover crayoned in orchid. 
There are more surprises behind the yellow-and­green tinted windows· of the coffeehouse called Cap'n Cinos. There is neither a Cap nor a Cino, according to 24 year old owner Adam Sutton; it's just a play on the ever-popular cappuccino. Sutton, a six-year on and ofT resident of South Bend, saw the need for an outlet for creativity here, an opportunity for the town's culture to emerge and a place where under 2 I year olds could enjoy bands they normally couldn't see because of their age. So he opened Cap'n-Cino's. 
A while ago he noticed an old garage for rent nestled unobtrusively between an Amoco station and Oakhill Condominiums. He leapt at the chance to craft the S'pace int<> all that he imagined: a place for the commu­
'Why pick a coffeehouse for a meal 
instead of a restaurant? There is always the promise of a savory dessert to wash down your coffee, and an almost guarantee that your eating experience will be different from that of a restau­rant where what you get is what you expect.' 
nity to gather, a link between all of the colleges in the area, an alternative to bars and clubs. He is aware of all of the different "indoor worlds" of South Bend and of any town, the comfort zones of routine that are easy to fall into, the personal traditions of after school or after work, or after nothing. The climate of a town in this way seems to be universal for people in many dif­ferent occupations, trades and walks of life: a student, a lawyer, a post office worker, a traveler. 
Sutton sees his coffeehouse as a place where a microcosm of America can join together for a common purpose. That purpose, whether it be sharing a choco­l~te raspberry latte, playing a game of Battleship, hav­ing an intense discussion or enjoying some time out by yourself. seems to be defined more once you have left than upon deciding to go. However. one decision is already implicit in just going to Cap'n-Cinos: you won't be drinking alcohol. Because he doesn't have a liquor license, Sutton isn't permitted to have a dance floor, pool tables, arcade machines or dartboards. He is happy with this law, because the crowd he draws will be more diverse and broad as a result. 

It seems that everyone needs something from Adam Sutton. It is easy to see why people are drawn to him, as he overflows with enthusiasm, energy and the hun­dreds of ideas that rush around inside his mind. And unlike many people, he actually carries his ideas all the way from conception to reality. As he sits in his newly-refurbished booth area, weartng engineer­striped overalls, a bandana over his dark and dredded hair, and with an easy smile, three people approach him within a five-minute period for assorted reasons. · The key to the back room so a young band can jam ("go for it"), his dog so that a friend can take him for a walk by the river ("but, it's raining, man"), a room in his house so that a friend's cousin can have a place to live ("my landlord ... "). He takes it all in with an even, calm manner, processing each request equally, despite its position on the broad range of need. All of these people are working for him in some way or another with his plans for Cap'n-Cinos, which are coming to fruition at an interesting pace. At times he has to remind them that it is work and that he is only one person. 
Sutton plans to use the space in the back of the reno­vated garage as a pottery workshop where people who don't have access to a kiln can fire their work. There will also be a music studio back there, and he will maintain his own woodworking and metalworking areas. A new entrance will lead into a gift shop and on one outside wall of the building adjacent to the entrance there will be an airbrushed mural of invisible paint and Cap'n-Cino's logo. It will be illuminated in blacklight during the day, and different lighting at night will uncover an altogether separate image. Sutton sees the main coffeehouse area extending to the front lawn, where he'd like to have weekly community gatherings in old town hall style, with potluck dinners. He and his crew will begin renovations soon. 
He seems most excited about the broad expanse of high forest green interior walls. Cap-n-Cino will also be a gallery of sorts, with temporary installations of art­work by local artists or anyone who wants to submit work to exhibit. As for other forms of art, he is extremely open to everything from drum circles, which are every Thursday night, to local and out-of-town bands to poetry readings. "Sunday at Six" is an inter­esting phenomena already taking place; anyone can do pretty much anything they want, whether it be singing, dancing, reading or any other form of performance. And you can probably guess when it takes place. 
Cap'n Cinos is a combination of coffeehouse, studio, gallery, stage, gathering place, and community forum. They offer two flavors of coffee changing daily, and an array of munchies and tables to choose from, providing an extraordinary selection of options for the person who wants a break from routine, or else an addition to the old way of doing things. 

***** EspressoA straight shot of hot espresso from a darker roasted bean *** Cafe Latte A shot of espresso with steam wed milk and a little foam on top **** CapnuccinoA shot of espresso with a liftle steamed milk and foamed milk *** Mocaccino (Cafe Mocha) A shot of espresso with steamed and foamed milk and a shot of chocolate syrup ** Cafe au lait Coffee brewed double strong with steamed milk, half and half and vanilla. * Italian svrups Shots of flavor ( ie: Hazelnut, raspberry, almondf that enhance the flavor of regular coffee (Stars signify the strength of the coffee : one is the weakest and five is the strongest) Information compiled by Assistant Accent Editor Ashleigh Thompson, with help from Stephanie at Lula's  

Friday, August 25, 1995 The Observer•WEEKEND page 11 

Cap'n Cinos Weekly Calendar 
Mondays: "From the Heart," poetry readings beginning at 8:30 p.m. Wednesdays: "On Stage," acoustic concert series beginning at 8:30 p.m. Thursdays: Evening "Drum Circle." Bring your own percussion instrument Fridays & Saturdays: Band Nights Sundays: "Sunday at Six" Open Stage 
e coffeehouse craze is hitting big city and small 

own alike all across America. To what is its 
mergent popularity due? Coffehouses have been in existence for many years, beginning in London where, in the 18 and 19th centuries before newspapers were created, there were over 500 of them. They were used as meeting places where the news was passed on and for gathering with friends-or foes-to discuss the issues of the day. They have been in the United States for many years as well. Relatively recently their numbers have grown as coffee chains such as Starbucks have opened all over the country, sometimes with several stores in one city. The more eclectic, hard-to-find and unique cof­feehouses are the San Francisco, New York City and Washington, D.C. gredecessors to the chain-type places. They survive because of their character, word-of-mouth and regular crowd. 
~eda4-8ale 
1631 Edison Road 



eap'"' e~ 
On the corner of Edison and South Bend Avenue behind the Amoco station 
What is it about the coffee bean that brings people together? It's not just the caffeine, cigarette haze or spe­cialty muffin that keeps the door opening and people at the tables. It's something more intangible. It's the feeling of being in a time capsule, of common anonymity, of anything goes. The atmosphere, the stimulation of sight, taste, smell, and hearing as well as a generalized philos­ophy of openness and strange familiarity all add to the allure. Occupations and obligations and where you'd been before getting coffee all fall by the wayside. This is a break in the day, a relaxing time, an open-to-experi­ence hour and an alternative setting. 
Why pick a coffeehouse for a meal instead of a restau­rant? There is always the promise of a savory dessert to wash down your coffee. and an almost guarantee that your eating experience will be different from that of a restaurant where what you get is what you expect. At a coffeehouse what you get is frequently refreshingly dif­ferent from what you expect. A typical deli sandwich is spiced up with imported mustard or cajun chips from a small town in Iowa. A cup of house coffee comes in a mug that says "Best Grandma Eve." Your blueberry muf­fin is heated for you and served steaming with a cup of mocha. Food is fast and good, and sitting is long and wonderful. 

m I blue? Am I blue? Or am I feeling medieval? These are questions you must ask yourself upon entering South Bend's Lula's Cafe. Each corner, 
or conversational area, has a different motif character­ized by color or epic, and is meant to inspire a mood. Or maybe your mood before entering is enhanced by the corner you choose. There is the blue corner, in which everything is completely a deep shade of azure; the medieval corner, which is marked by a large, rough wooden table; the Greek-flavored corner with Corinthian pillars painted on the wall and the slinky hepcat, brand-new yet worn living room corner with a lamp with lion's eyelash fringe. In the middle of the room wooden tables and chairs rest atop thick, lush carpeting. 
Lula's Cafe comes with a menu of drinks, soups, sal­ads, snacks and pastries. It also offers the entertaining legend of Lula on the back of it, which claims that the fictional "Lula" evidently had even more influence than Forrest Gump on the likes of literary geniuses and cafe society. Part of her ·bio reads, "Lula flew with Amelia Earhart on her flight around the world, but left in Hawaii and parachuted out to join Ernest Hemingway on his sailboat. It was there that she convinced him that the sun also rises." Apparently Lula was pretty famous. 
Anna Reilley and partner Steve Egan, a 1993 graduate of Notre Dame, began discussing Lula's Cafe last May. The space for rent in Edison Plaza was up for lease in November, and they took it. It opened March 4, and the two have enjoyed watching a business evolve from the Rjltilground up. Most Americans have some entrepreneurial blood, Steve thinks, and he chose to follow the flow. Egan and Riley brought in artists who designed the 
motifs and mosaics for Lula's, giving it an eclectic living 1!1!!111111. room feel. Egan hopes to develop a good dessert crowd for after the theater or other evening events in South ~illilill 
Bend. Lula's is a nonsmoking environment, and very ··~ 
clean and new. Those who are attracted by a quieter and smoke-free place would enjoy Lula's. It's on its way to becoming three separate businesses once it gets .,_l.• .Jl• 
rolling, with a to-go morning crowd, a mix of faculty and people who are out and about for lunch, and an evening after-theater and student crowd. 
Why open a coffeehouse? Like the other owners, Egan believes that it's a niche that is untapped in South Bend. It is an alternative to other social settings where people can hang out and talk. Coffee does seem to lend itself to conversation, and depending upon the flavor of your drink, mood, or topic, Lula's has the corner for you. 
Anne Delaney is a 1995 graduate of Saint Mary's. She majored in English Writing and Humanistic Studies and is currently doing a service project. 
candura 
Cap'n Cinos offers an alternative to the college bar scene. 
········~ 

: 'IJ/.tMIJ 

11 tpJU ~ ~u&t 4-euut eap '~e eUe&t ~· .. 
R.J.'s Espresso Shoppe, 109 W. Washington Madison Oyster Bar, 402 E. Madison Barnes & Noble's, Grape Road Allegro, basement of LaFortune Waddick's, first floor of O'Shaugnnessy 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, August 25, 1995 
• AM~RICAN lEAGUE 




Griffey's game-ending homer downs Yankees 
By JIM COUR 
Associated Press 

SEATTLE 
Ken Griffey Jr. hit a two-run homer with two outs in the ninth inning -the first time he's ended a game with a home run in his career -that rallied the Seattle Mariners past the New York Yankees 9-7 Thursday. 
Seattle rallied for three runs in the ninth off relief ace John Wetteland and sent the Yan­kees to their sixth straight loss, their longest skid since September 1992. 
The Mariners had been 0-43 when trailing after eight in­nings, but Joey Cora's RBI sin­gle with two outs tied it. Griffey followed by hitting the next pitch into the second deck in right field for his lOth home run, and third since returning to the lineup from a broken left wrist. 
Wetteland (l-4) blew a save for the filth time in his last six chances. He retired the first two batters in the ninth, but walked Vince Coleman on a 3-2 pitch. Coleman stole second and third, and scored when Cora hit a line drive that tipped of the glove of shortstop Tony Fernandez, who seemed to mistime his jump and slammed his mitt to the ground after missing the ball. 
Jeff Nelson (5-l) pitched the ninth inning to get the victory, the Mariners' sixth in seven games against the Yankees this season. 
The loss denied David Cone a chance to become baseball's third 14-game winner. Cone gave up a grand slam to Jay Buhner, his 24th homer, in the first inning and Edgar Mar­tinez's 22nd in the eighth. 
Cone, 4-1 since the Yankees got him from Toronto, struck out 10 in eight innings. Andy Benes, 2-1 since the Mariners got him from San Diego, al­lowed seven runs in seven in­nings. 
Trailing 4-1, the Yankees scored six times in the fourth, highlighted by a three-run dou­ble by Paul O'Neill that fell between third baseman Mike Blowers, shortstop Luis Sojo and Coleman in left field. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Classifieds 
WANTED: Saint Mary's sports writ­ FOR SALE: WOOD FRAMED  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Need Northwestern Tix. Will Pay $$  IIIII  
NOTICES  ers and photographers. You do not have to commit on a full-time basis.  MATCHING COUCH AND CHAIR; SMALL COFFEE TABLE; LARGE  I NEED STUD TIX APPSI!I I NEED STUD TIX APPS!II  or Have Tix to Trade. Call Erin at #4021  In desperate need of 2 TEXAS GAs for grandparents. Call Kevin x0564  
Call Caroline at  CHEST OF DRAWERS. $100.00  CALL 273-6047  
Save many dollars $$$'sl  284-4349 or come by room 222 in  FOR ALL FOUR OR BEST OFFER  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Texas Boy needs Texas GAs. Call  
Textbooks-up to 40% off (for all  Holy Cross Hall.  ON EACH.  wanted: GAs for TEXAS and USC  Miguel at X3336.  
courses). Two day (or immediate  ALSO, 25" SCREEN , COLOR ,  reward: BIG BUCKS!!  
pick-up) service.  FANTASY NFL FOOTBALL  CONSOLE TV. 20 YRS. OLD,  call x2339  
PANDORA'S at Notre Dame and  Interested in starting a league?  SOME TROUBLE WITH VERT. I  HELP!!! I NEED OSU TIX!I!  
Howard Street. 233-2342 See you  CALL 289-2804 Leave message  HORIZ.  HOLD.  $100 OR BEST  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Need N-Western tix, stud or GA.  Willing to pay $ or trade lor PUR­ 
OFFER.  NEED MARRIED STUD TIX APPS  Call Tim @ x1201. PLEASE!!  DUE or USC GA's. call Dawn  
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  CALL 232-5236; LEAVE MES­ WILL PAY$$$$$$  x3793  
SAGE ON MACHINE IF NESS.  NEED MARRIED STUD TIX APPS  HELP!! I need 1 NW Stu or GA  
NEED CASH?????  Subway Sandwich Shops is now hiring part-time Sandwich Artists.  THANK YOU.  CALL 273-6047 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Elaine 42389  PERSONAL  
MORRISSEY STUDENT LOAN  Close to campus, will work around  NEED 2 WASHINGTON TICKETS.  
FUND  your schedule, competitive pay and  1982 Toyota Celica  1 G.A. TICKET NEEDED FOR B.C.  x3520  JOIN US AND TOGETHER WE  
a free sub everytime you work. Call  5-speed, 2-door, no rust.  GAME 271-1269  SHALL RULE THE GALAXY! THE  
WHERE: DOOLEY RM@ LAFORT.  Penny at 277-7744.  Call today  Lots of new. Excellent condition  EMPEROR HAS FOASEEN IT!  
(ACROSS FROM INFO DESK)  and you could start tommorrow.  631-6071, 273-3166 Ask for Oleg  NEED TEXAS GA'S.  NOTRE DAME season tickets  
WHEN: 11 :30-12:30 M-F  CALL ALISON 1-600-431-0010,  wanted. Top dollar paid. 674-7625  The Observer News Department  
WHAT: CAN TAKE OUT 30 DAY  computer desk/chair $35. loveseat  EXT. 8796.  (24 hrs.)  wants you! Now accepting applica­ 
LOAN UP TO $250 AT 1% INTER­ Macri's Deli in downtown South  $100. 9xl2 carpet $65. 234;5665.  tions for the following paid posi­ 
EST  Bend is now hiring for all  -----NEEDED----­ I need Northwestern tickets.  tions- 
WHO: MUST BE A STUDENT W/  positions. Looking for reliable,  51221 Oakhill Ct.  2 BC GEN. ADMIS.  Please call Bryan  Associate News Editor  
VALID I.D. (GRAD STUDENTS  hard working people in return  KNOLLWOOD PARK VILLAS  FOOTBALL TIX  272 4249  Assistant News Editor  
TOO)  for a fun work atmosphere and  Open Sunday 2-4  CALL4X2910  Chief Copy Editor  
Hexible schedules. Apply in  PLEASE HELP ME!!!  Copy Editor  
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  person, 2-5p.m., 214 N. Niles  Come & see this elegant  Will trade 2 USC-ND GA's for  I need a G.A. for the Northwestern  
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Ave.  Mediterranean Villa. Enjoy life and  2 OSU-ND tickets. Call Jim at  Game-call Leah x4765  Submit a brief resume and personal  
friends in French Kitchen, Italian  233-9904.  statement to Dave Tyler by Friday  
und parents: B & B football week·  Earn $2500 & Free Spring Break  Living Room or in English-like Park  Need 2 GA's & 3 Stud tix 4 Texas  August 25th. Questions? call Dave  
ends, 2 miles to campus, call219­ Trips! Sell 8 Trips & Go Freel Best  Garden on Quiet Court. For further  game -Reggie x4297  @ 1-5323.  
277-6832  Trips & Prices! Bahamas, Cancun,  info call Marzena Walicka 271-1474  •••••••••••••••••••••••••••****•*****LO  TOGETHER, WE CAN RESTORE  
Jamaica, Florida! Spring Break  or 24 hr 235·3016.  OKING TO BUY STUDENT TICK­ ORDER TO THE GALAXY!  
Travell1·600-676-6366  ET BOOKLETS. CALL JEN @  
HYPNOTIST -INDIVIDUALS OR  273-1736  NEED GA's TO ANY HOME  
SMALL GROUPS-MORNINGS, AFTERNOONS, EVENINGS-STOP  FOR RENT  50779 Canyon Ridge Drive QUAIL RIDGE NORTH  GAME!!!!! CALL KATIE X1093  Are you motivated? dedicated? Interested in writing?  
SMOKING, WEIGHT CONTROL,  The Observer News Department  
PHOBIAS, ENHANCED LEARN­ ACCOMMODATION  Custom-built home on pretty set­ My wile will kill me. Need set of  wants you!  
ING,  SPORTS PERFRO- Englishwoman offers quiet accom­ ting. Quality throughout. Electronic  Married Student tix. Brett 272­ NEED GA OR STUDENT TICKETS  
MANCE, SEXUAL DYSFUNCTION,  modation near campus for ND/SMC  air cleaner. Superb master suite  7223  TO USC AND TEXAS HOME  See our ad this page!  
MEDICAL AND DENTAL ANAES­ visitors. Call (219)631-6072 days,  with lounge area. Jacuzzi in sun­ GAMES!! WILL PAY GOOD$$$$  
THESIA 234-2095  (219) 273-1751 evenings.  room off breakfast area. Truly  Wealthy Alum needs tix for all home  CALL CHRIS @ 239-8922  $5.50 HAIRCUTS  
Classic home with very fine fea­ games. Brett 272-7223  
tures. For further info, call Carmen  VITO'S BARBER SHOP  
NICELY DECORATED ROOMS  Chappee at Chappee Realty, 271­ Desperate student needs 1 ticket to  NEEDED-NORTHWESTERN  1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST  
ILOST&FOUNDI  FOR RENT. F-BALL WKNDS, AEASON.AATES,GAEAT  2004 or 24 hr. 235-3536.  N-westem game for Mom. PLEASE call Kevin at 4-4524  GA'S AND STUD TIX, PLEASE CALL 273-3292  SOUTH BEND -233-4767  
ATMOS., CONTIN. BRKFST, 2  $169,900.  $$$$$$$$$$MONEY$$$$$$$$$$  
••••••••••••..*FOUND **************  MILES OFF-CAMPUS. CALL KIM  NEEDED:3 TIX FOR NORTH­ TRADE ­ 2 BCNandblt GAs for 2  Yes, the Viewpoint  
a gold quartz pulsar watch near  277-6340.  WESTERN WILL PAY$$$  USC/Texas GAs -Call219-273­ (opinions)Department will be hiring  
the library circle.  call X-3525.  CALL 2675  6379  people for PAID positions.  
2 BDAM HOME FOR RENT NEAR  GREAT DEALIII  
••••••••••••••*LOST ****•••••••••••  CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES  Round trip plane ticket­ Desperately need USC tickets!! I  If you write well, know grammar,  
TWO KEYES ON RING IN  272-6306  South Bend to Los Angeles,  3 GA's or 2 GA's and 1 Student  WANTED: 3 USC TXS  have an interest in journalism, etc.  
STEPAN FIELD DURING THE  ONLY $230.  Please call Chris at 288-7843.  PLEASE CALL 312-551-3552  we may have a position to suit you.  
PICNIC DINNER 8/23  HOMES FOR RENT NEAR ND  Call Rosanna, 234-3466.  Call Michael O'Hara @631-4541 for  
••••• PLEASE CALL 634-4646 •••••  232-2595  I need 2 Texas tickets and as  more information, or watch The  
many tix for Vanderbilt as possible.  Need 1 Texas, will trade 1  Observer for further ads.  
WANTED  HOUSE FOR RENT 2 Bedrooms for rent in home close  Waterbed super single size with book head board and twelve draw­ Please call Kathleen at 4843.  Northwestern Karen X4265  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
to campus on State Rd 23. Private  ers. Includes black satin sheets and  Need 2 Texas GAs.  WE CAN'T EXIST WITHOUT YOUI  
Need a fun-loving, responsible stu­ entrance & garage. Share bath and  bedspread with a drain and fill kit.  Desperate and Wealthy!  OSU TIX-I need 4. Will trade 4  
dent to babysit 2 children ages 5&7  kitchen. $275.00 + 1/3 utilities.  $200.00 268-3366  Call 1-600-223-2440 Ext.4370  Purdue tix plus large sums of cash  Fight the apathy that seems to run  
in my Granger home 2-3 afternoons  Leave mess.: 273-6126  $$$$$$  for tickets to see Irish crush  rampant in this community of Notre  
a week 2-6 pm. Must have own  Buckeyes. If you can help, call  Dame/Saint Mary's/Holy Cross. If  
transportation. Please call  ROOM WITH KITCHEN, UTILI­ NEED A ONE WAY TO SAN JOSE  need vanderbilt tickets  x3349.  you have a gripe, issue, concern,  
277-5786.  TIES, ETC. $250/MO. CLOSE TO  ? 1 ticket from Chicago to San  GA's or married student tix  etc. SHARE it. Let YOUR voice be  
CAMPUS IN SAFE NEIGHBOR­ Jose, CA $125 #4-4144  call Dan @ 273-4780  2 f-ball tix appl's 4 Sale. Call 284­ heard.  
HOOD. CALL PAUL 232-2794.  5116 and leave offer.  
SOCCER REFEREES: Students  FOR SALE  The Observer's Viewpoint  
needed to referee soccer games for  Student sub-leasing room in  Senior Stud Appl. Best Offer!  11111111111111!111111!!!!1!11!!!!!!!111111!!!!!!!!!111111  Department exists as a service to  
south-side elementary school  Lafayette Square Townhomes. 1  Call Colleen:  284-4356  1111  you.  You make the section what it  
(Grades 5-6), located near  mile from campus, just remodeled,  Need 2 TEXAS GA's for my Aunt's  is. We need you.  
Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street. All games scheduled between 4pm  very spacious and very nice, male only, need to rent, 200/month. Call  TICKETS  1st first visit to NDI Call Mary Kay at X4421.  I NEED NORTHWESTERN AND TEXAS TICKETS  FIGHT THE APATHY. SUBMIT!  
and 5:30pm, Monday-Friday, Sept  Greg (219)-234-0985  WILL TRADE FOR PURDUE  
9-0c\29. $15.00-$20.00 per game.  $$$$$$$$$  OR CASH  Kiddo,  
Must have referee uniform. Call  HOUSEMATE WANTED  A DEVOTED IRISH FAN NEEDS  Need Tix: GA and Student for  So much for the environment,  
291-4200 or 291-6731.  FURNISHED -2mi from campus  GA'S TO ANY/ALL  USC and Texas. CALL  CALL DENNIS@ (312) 951-5006  who would of !hunk they would  
3 bdrm/1 .5 bath/2 car garage  HOME/AWAY GAMES.  Tim x3BB9  have put me in charge, isn't this  
SOCCER COACH: Responsible  $200/mo+elec/cable CALL Mel @  219-232-0061, 24 HAS.  $$$$$$$$$  your department.  
student/grad student needed to  269-2604  ....CONCERT TIX!II..'*  ·An lllimos Farmer  
cbach JV boys soccer team(s) for  1 set of married student tickets x- LIVE,VEAUCA SAL T,PJ HARVEY  
south-side elementary school  3 BEDROOM HOUSE GOOD  TICKET-MART, INC.  1653 to leave offer  AUGUST31  hey kovach, shave your back you  
(Grades 5-8), located near  NEIGHBORHOOD ON BULLA AD  WANTED  WORLD MUSIC THEATER  big hoss  -kellett  
Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street.  5 MINUTE WALK TO ND 2773097  GA'S FOR ANY/ALL  •3 SEATS•LOW PRICES•  
Practice 2:15-3:15 pm, Mon-Thurs.  HOME/AWAY ND GAMES.  I HAVE USC TIX  CALL SARAH NOW!  in fact, that goes for you too Nadley  
All soccer (games 6-12) scheduled  BUY•SELL•TRADE  Will trade 2 GAs plus stadium park­ 284-5166  -kellett again  
between 4pm & 5:30pm Monday-Fri. Coach Sept 5­ FOR SALE  (219) 232-0056 • 24 HAS.  ing pass for 4 Texas or BC GAs. Call Matt W(312)704-7704  NEED STUD TIX APPS  you ever get the feeling that the  
0ct 27. Paid position-Please call  H(312)549-0825  WILL PAY BIG$$$  cartoonist has too much access to a  
291-4200 or 291-6731.  1990 HONDA CIVIC DX 4 DOOR  CALL 273-5295  computer at the observer?  
STICK 50,000MI $5300 272-2916  BUSINESSMAN  NEEDS 2or4  NEED 4 NORTHWESTERN GAs  -kellett  
ND SEASON TICKETS ANY OR  Physician doing the buying- 
Where the action is!! Coach's  1990 Honda CRX Sl Yellow 5­ ALL GAMES.  OHIO.ST.  BIG BUCKS OFFERED!  LOST: Two tix to Texas Gamel!  Pat Van Dew Brock,  
Sports Bar is now hiring for·part  Speed 59K $6950 Firm!!! 277-9276  andWASHINGTON A MUST  Call Ryan at 233·5273.  Can you help me find them?  Are you still drawing for the  
time kitchen, dish and hostess  PLEASE HELP IF YOU CAN....... .  • Also need BC student tix.  My old ND roommate is driving out  Observer? Call me.  
positions. Perfect for students who  PRINTER Reliable Panasonic 24­ 2771659  all the way from NYC. Please help!  Garret  x1766  
need to make good $$$ to enjoy the  pin, VG cond. w/200+ sheets paper  ND ALUMNI NEEDS 2 FOOTBALL  Will pay big $$$$ Call KATY at  
NO years. Must be 18. Apply  & 4 new ribbons. $100/B.O.  I NEED TIXS 10 ALL HOME  SEASON TICKETS FOR PERSON­ 634-4410.  Sherman, the Red Sox will choke.  
in person, 2046 South Bend Ave.  Call Fr. Mike 1-6821  GAMES.272-6306  AL USE PAY WELL 2773097  Vaughn plays first like ol' No. 6!  
--------------------------------­ 

Friday, August 25, 1995 
The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• SPRTS BRIEFS 
RecSports lntramurals -RecSports is <lffering lnterhall & Grad/Fac/Staff Baseball, Interhall (Men's & Women's) & Grad/Fac/Staff Football, IH & Grad/Fac/Staff (Men's singles, wamen singles & mixed doubles) Tennis, Freshman Swim Meet and 16" & Co-Ree Softball. The entry dates are from Au­gust 23 to August 30 in the RecSports office. Please call RecSports (1-6100) for date and time for captains' meetings. Our new hotline is 1-8REC. 
Scuba Course -There will be an information meeting for this course on Sunday, August 27 at 1:00 in Rockne Rm 218. Completion of course results in YMCA certification. For more info call 1-6100. 
Shorin-Ryu Karate -Semester long course that meets in Rockne 219 M/W 4:30-6:30 starting Wednesday, Septem­ber 14. You must register in advance and the fee is $15.00. A demonstration will be held on September 4 at 5:00 in Rm 219. Call1-6100 for more info. 
Women's Safety and Self-Defense ­Class meets for ten sessions on M/W from 6:30-7:45 in Rockne Rm 219. Class begins on Monday, September 4 and is open to students and staff. Fee is $9.00 and more info at 1-6100. 
Ballet -Semester long course that meets on Sundays from 1:00-3:00 in Rockne Rm 301. An informational meeting will be held on Sunday, September 3 at 1:00 in Rockne Rm 301. The fee is $25.00 and more info at 1­6100. 
Horseback Riding Lessons -The information meeting for this course will be Thursday, September 7 at 6:00 in the Rolfs Aquatic Facility classroom. Class begins September 14 and more info at 1-6100. 
Athletic Commissioners -All hall Athletic Commissioners need to contact the RecSports office. We need names, phone numbers, and addresses. Please call1-5100. 
Challenge U Aerobics -Sign-ups started yesterday at the RecSports office. Interval aerobics and Advanced aerobics will be offered. Call 1-5965 for further details. 
Broadcast Irish Football -WVFI needs assistants to help broadcast NO football games. If interested call Ken Maverick at the station (1-6888) or at home (277-1753). 



School is 
hard. 
Ta rget+--i_s_ea_s_y._ 
®TARGET 
..........~ • •. •. 1m!!! Oren seven days aweek 8AM to [Q PM . 
.....,..,..._~ --To find the large nearest you, calll-800-800-8800. 
A cheaper and far less painful alternative to a tattoo. 
Kids' T-shirts. Sizes 4-16 (XS-XL). 100% cotton. Styles may vary by store. 
each $5.96 
Adults' and kids' caps. One size fits all. 
each $4.99 

Adults' T-shirts with screen logo on front and back. Sizes M-L-XL. 100% cotton. 
each $9.99 
Sizes XXL and XXXL. Styles may vary by store. $
11 99
each • 
-------------------------------------------------' 

Friday, August 25, 1995

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS 
• COllEGE fOOTBAll

• NATIONAL lEAGUE 
Last-place Cardinals Frazier to start for Nebraska 

faring well against NL div.ision front -runners 
By R.B. FALLSTROM Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS 

Somehow, the St. Louis Car­dinals had their best homes­tand of the year against the National League's top two teams. 
The Cardinals blew a five-run lead, but Ray Lankford's sixth­inning single gave them a 6-5 victory over the Cincinnati Reds on Thursday. 
St. Louis, which has the worst record in the National League, took three of four from the NL Central leaders, who have the second best. 
"I d.on't know where they turned it around, but they def­initely played well here," Cincinnati's Barry Larkin said. "They've got a lot of confidence now." 
They completed a 5-2 homes­tand that began with three games against NL East-leading Atlanta, winning consecutive series for the first time since the All-Star break. It's all the more surprising considering the Cardinals preceded the homestand with a 1-8 trip. 
Lankford has had both good and bad times this homestand, with nine strikeouts and five RBis. Don't ask him about the turnaround. 
"When it's going, it's going bad," Lankford said. "When it's going good, you've just got to enjoy it." 
Lankford's RBI single came after reliever Hector Carrasco (2-5) walked two in the sixth. 
Cardinals starter Donovan Osborne, however, continued a lengthy drought, remaining winless since Aug. 18, 1993. He allowed five runs in five innings and gave up two home runs to Ron Gant. Osborne missed all of last season after undergoing shoulder surgery. 
"It's been a long year," Os­borne said. ''I'm doing every­thing I can. but if you have bad luck on your side it's hard to change it." 
Rich DeLucia (6-6) allowed a 
hit in two innings. He leads the 
team in victories, one more 
than Mark Petkovsek and Allen 
Watson. Tom Henke allowed a 
leadoff double to pinch-hitter 
Thomas Howard in the ninth 
but finished for his 27th save ­
the 302nd of his career. 

"Sometimes I do it with mir­
rors," Henke said. "He made 
me pay for my mistake and it 
was just a matter regrouping." 

The Cardinals took a 5-0 lead 
after two innings against Dave 
Burba, who had been 4-0 with 
Reds and entered with a streak 
SAVE MANY DOLLARS $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Textbooks -up to 40% off (for all courses) Two day or immediate pick up service. 
PANDORA'S 
at Notre Dame and Howard Street 233-2342 See you there! 
of 15 2-3 scoreless innings. 

Lankford and David Bell had RBI doubles and Mark Sweeney had a run-scoring single in the Cardinals' three-run first. Burba walked three in the sec­ond. including Sweeney with the bases loaded, and Ozzie Smith added an RBI single. 
Burba said he hasn't been feeling well the last few days. 
"I don't know if it's the flu or what, but I definitely wasn't 100 percent," Burba said. "I went out and did the best I could. I just didn't have it." 
Gant's first home run and two throwing errors by Bell at second base helped the Reds score three runs in the fourth. Onfl run scored when Bell threw wildly to first on Hal Morris' infield hit, and Mark Lewis added a run-scoring dou­ble. 
Larkin singled with one out in the fifth and Gant followed with his second home run well over the center field wall to tie the score. The home run, his 28th of the season, was measured at 438 feet, longest of the year at Rusch Stadium. 
By J.L. SCHMIDT 
Associated Press 

LINCOLN, Neb. 
Tommie Frazier, who missed most of Nebraska's national championship season last year because of surgery for blood clots, will start at quarterback for the Cornhuskers in next week's season opener. 
Coach Tom Osborne an­nounced his decision Thursday, saying Frazier graded out bet­ter in films than Brook Berringer, who took over for most of the regular season. Both played in the Orange Bowl victory over Florida that gave Osborne his first national championship. 
Nebraska plays next Saturday at Oklahoma State. 
During Wednesday's scrim­mage, Frazier completed seven of eight passes for 125 yards and one touchdown. Berringer was 6-of-8 for 118 yards and a touchdown. Neither threw an interception. 
"Tommie graded the best in the films and will start," Os­borne said at the end ofprac­tice. "We'll play Brook in the first half like we said. Maybe six, seven or eight plays. depending on the situation." 
Osborne said the key factor separating the performances 



The Observer 
is now hiringfor the following paid position: 
Friday Circulation Drivers 
If you are interested and have between 11:.00-2:00 open on Fridays, contact Joe Riley at 1-5313. 


Welcome Students 
Now That You're Back It's Time to Start Planning ... for Fall Break! 
Consider: Service and Work for Justice Participate in: Social Concerns Seminars 
• One-Credit Experiential Learning and Service Opportunities in Appalachia, Washington D.C., and Chicago 
Applications (due Sept. 7.) are available at the Center for Social Concerns 
was consistency. 
"It's a big issue, it's how they handle mistakes, interceptions, turnovers .... 
"Tommie has really improved his passing. Instead of 45 per­cent to 50 percent, he's throw­ing the ball really well," Osborne said. "I don't know how it will translate during the season, but he's capable of be­ing a 60 percent passer." 
Berringer took over last sea­son after four games when Frazier was hospitalized with blood clots in his calf. Frazier's health condition ultimately re­quired surgery. 
Berringer led the team to a 42-32 win over Wyoming, but sustained a partially collapsed lung in the game. Berringer then led Nebraska to wins the rest of the regular season and the Cornhuskers went 12-0. 
Frazier had healed enough to play by season's end. The team headed for the Orange Bowl accompanied by the cardiolo­gist who performed the surgery to repair veins that had caused Frazier's clots. 
Frazier came off the bench to lead Nebraska to two fourth­quarter scores in the 24-17 vic­tory. 


CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
presented by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre MARLON HtuNno JoiiNN\ DEI)I' F\H: Dl N \\\\\ 
"HYSTERICALLY FUNNY, CHAlt\fiNG, WILDLY IMAGINATIYE..." 
Jan Wahl, N8(:TV, Son Fronfuto 


Friday, August 25, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
Football 
continued from page 20 
every game, " Chryplewicz says. "But I know coach Holtz will be rotating us and each will ~et a good deal of playing time. 
Both have earned three let­ters in their careers, gaining experience behind Oscar McBride. Chryplewicz has four career receptions for fifty yards. lie earned eight starts in 1993, but missed most of last season after he broke a bone in his right wrist against Michigan. 
Wallace has three career re­ceptions for 29 yards, including a 15-yard touchdown pass from Gus Ornstein against Navy. He nabbed a seven-yard pass from Ron Powlus for a TO in the 1995 Fiesta Bowl as well. Wal­lace also lost some time to in­jury, missing the end of the 1993 season after having back surgery. 
"Coach Holtz sets standards for the team, and standards for each position," Chmiel says. "Both of these men have been striving on a daily basis to im­prove toward these standards and work toward the goals of the team." 
The standards for an Irish tight end have been, according to Chrlliel, "to block like an of­fensive lineman but still be able to run patterns and catch like a receiver." 
In the recent past, though, the blocking abilities of the tight ends have been valued more than their catching skills. 
"I'd love to catch the ball more, but I knew coming into Notre Dame what my role would be," Wallace says. 
''I'll be looking to do whatever I can to contribute this year," Chryplewicz says. "As long as we're winning, I'm happy." 
•NBA 
New contract criticized 
Associated Press cases. Some I would character­
ize as bombshells." 
NEW YORK Kessler claimed the league

Representatives of NBA play­was trying to include a contract ers seeking to dissolve the clause that would bar playersunion assailed the· proposed la­and teams from negotiatingbor agreement for containing contracts downward -a com­hidden provisions that would mon practice that helps teams restict player movement, The find room under the salary cap New York Times reported to bring in new players.Thursday. But Granik said "The feed­
"These are terms from the back we're getting is most of June 21 agremeent that no one the players feel it is a fair ever knew before, in many deal," he said. 

page 16 



WELCOME BACI<! 
Need a job that fits your busy schedule? 
Memorial Home Care offers an excellent opportunity to fit work around your class load! 0 We're seeking energetic, responsible, caring people to join our KidKare child care staff. 0 As a KidKare registry staff member, you'd be "on call" to fill staffing assignments for 
area families in need of child care services. 0 Evening or daytime, you accept assignments that meet your schedule! 0 Flexible hours. Great pay. 
Call 273-2273 to find out more! 

Memorial Home Care® 
17390 Dugdale Drive, South Bend, IN 46635 
The Observer • SPORTS Friday, August 25, 1995 
Team captain Capasso is pose more of a question mark Notre Dame's workhorse, hav­for Berticelli. A starting goal­
Irish 

ing played in 23 games last sea­keeper still is yet to be named, continued from page 20 son. He is characterized by and the only experienced re­
Berticelli as "an unselfish play­turnee in the backfield is junior greater part of the season due er and a tremendous leader Brian Engesser, who started in to a serious knee injury. who is always working to make all 24 games last season. This 
"Bill Lanza right now is at himself and those around him Saturday's pre-season tune-up about 85 percent," commented better." against St. Louis University may Berticelli. "As far as his knee Koloskov is Notre Dame's help solidify some of these ros­goes, he is OK, bud he suffered field leader, directing the ter spots. a bad ankle sprain in the sum­attack from the midfield posi­mer. tion. Nicknamed "Special K", "The keys to this team are 
Koloskov is a vital cog in the youth and enthusiasm," com­
"Even so, Bill Lanza at 85 Irish attack. mented Berticelli. "It is a confi­percent is more effective than "Konstantin is the player that dent and talented team. Al­most strikers at 100 percent. needs to make the attack though young and somewhat He's a tremendous talent, and work," muses Berticelli. "He is inexperienced, we will play ex­his role with this team will once capable of scoring as well as citing, attacking soccer, and we again be one of creating goal setting up goals, and he will be will play every game expecting scoring opportunities for us. used to do both." a win. We can only hope that 
"He has outstanding speed Depleted by graduation, the the pieces will fall into place and acceleration, and is very Irish defenders and goalkeeper along the way." dangerous when the ball is on his foot. He will be back to 100 
-q;
percent for us soon." 

Biathlon ,,-*" 

While Lanza is back, fellow 
I -r forward Ryan Turner is cur­I .•" rently seeing very little practice & ""­time due to a lower back strain, / an injury which Berticelli con­

Beach Party ~~ ;

cedes is "definitely a setback for us." _/'"7 -•.
Saturday, August 26 ~:t \" While Lanza will be expected 
10:30 AM at St. Joe Beach -4~!~~,

to provide offensive punch and creativity up front, it is the Irish 
Biathlon. Beach Part

midfield which appears to be the team's strongest point. 1/2 Mile Swim Starts at Noon "We have our most depth at & 
Cinot•s Available 
midfield," says Berticelli. 
2 Mile Run Sailing & Rowing Club

Much of this depth is provid­
Re);ister in Advance at Demonstration

ed in juniors Tony Capasso and 
RecSports Scuba Demonstratio~1 ,
Konstantin Koloskov. 

Viusit Bearh Canll's & Swimming •
•
Team & Individual Volleyball Tournament 

• 
Non-Varsit (Ad\'. V-ll.1ll Rt'gistr.lliun Rt•quirt'd) •
•
Team & Individual Hot Dogs & Soda on Sale 

•
• 
It is not Necessary to Compete in tlte Biathlon to Take Part in t!te Beach Partu! • 
-ft 
Thursday, August 24 
•Sneak 
preview of the movie, "Brothers McMullen" Cushing Auditorium 8 pm and 10:30 pm 

•FREE 
billiards, 9 pm-I am, and FREE video games, I 0 pm -II pm in the LaFortune Gorch Games Room 




Friday, August 25 
•Welcome Back Picnic Fieldhouse Mall 4 pm-6 pm 
FREE FOOD, GIVEAWAYS!!! ~
t_ 

•Comedy Night at Washington Hall 8 pm $::1.00 '~ ' 
. ' ..... ;_____..--­

F<eatunng: (JJ·cer Barnes and Rock Reuben .• r.>.... 
•FREE 
Ice Cream Social --Fieldhouse Mall I0-II :30 pm -­

•"While 
You Were Sleeping" ........._ Cushing Auditorium 8 pm and 10:30 pm $2.00 



Saturday, August 26 
•Rockfest 
IV: featuring campus bands FREE FOOD AND DRINKS Fieldhouse Mall I -5 pm 

•Notre 
Dame Night at Coveleski Stadium: South Bend Silverhawks vs. Burlington Bees FREE TICKETS, at the LaFortune Info Desk 

FREE SHUTTLE to the stadium, begins at 5:45pm and leaves from Stepan Center 

•"While 
You Were Sleeping" Cushing Auditorium 8 pm and I0:30pm $2.00 




Sunday, August 27 
J ~~~ 
• "While You Were Sleeping" 
~.g+ 
~:;-~~ 
Cushing Auditorium 2 pm $2.00 
vvv 
Sponsored by:
-
Office of Multicultural Student Affairs 
\..~~ 
Student Activities 
Student Government 
Student Union Board 


---------------------------------------------~----------------------------~-­

"He is capable ofscoring as well as setting up goals. and he will be used to do both. " 
WEL~OME BA~N STUDENTS! 
WE INVITE YOV TO ENJOY OVR A WARD WINNING PIZZA AND LISTEN TO THE AREA'S FINEST DLVES BANDS! 
Th!! Original 






~tJtskelle(
VAULT at th!! 100 Center 
For carry out or delivery: 256-0707 256-5051 
We believe we have the finest tasting drinking water. 
Introductory Offer: 
$5 00 a month rental 
• on all coolers. 10 gallons of water free. 
FREE DELIVERY TO YOUR DORM OR OFFICE 
tl 
2218 S. Main 

• South Bend 
EXPIRES 9/1 0/95 Call for Details 
• 
CALL 189·6371 or 
1~~800-634-6517 
EARN CASH by DONATING  Interested  
You could earn: $30°0 atter your first plasma donation!  ----1n JOining  
$15°0  if you donate alone  the  
+$ 5°0 +$1 000  if you show college I. D. {first visit) per person if you recruit someone and they donate  Obseruer  
$30°0 TOTAL!  Sports  
Help Us Save Lives Must be 18 years old; proof of current  Staff?  
address with photo I.D. COME TO: HOURS:  Call Mik:e  
AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL 515 LINCOLNWAY WEST  M-F: 9-6 SAT: 8-5  @ 1-4543  
SOUTH BEND, IN 46601-1117  234-6010  

LAST CHANCE! 
FULBRIGHT COMPETITION 1996-97 
Attention Current Seniors!!!!! 
If you are interested in graduate study and research abroad, don't miss the informational meeting THURSDAY, AUGUST 31-7:00p.m. 131 DeBartolo with Professor A. James McAdams, Advisor 
Friday, August 25, 1995 
What Irish coach Mike Berticelli is saying about . .. 




Tony Capasso 
"He is an unshelfish player and a tremendous leader who is always working to make himselfand those around him better. " 

Bill Lanza 
"Bill Lanza at 85% is more effective than most strikers at I 00%. " 

Konstantin Koloskov 
The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
Starting spots on line for Irish • 

Big East 
continued from page 20 
To succeed, the Irish will have to deal with the increased level of competition. That will be even harder, considering that NCAA semifinalist Rutgers and West Virginia join Notre Dame as new beasts in the East. The fact that 10·9-1 West Virginia was ranked dead last in the coach· es' poll indicates just how tough the Big East is. 
"The Big East is one of the strongest confer­ences in the country," Berticelli said. "Rutgers was in the Final Four and they have everyone back. St. John's was No. 1 for a good part of last year. The strength of the conference from top to bottom is a major concern." 
Notre Dame also faces the challenge of a brutal road schedule. Because the Big East is a pre­dominantly East coast conference, the Irish will be unable to play weeknight conference games as often as their rivals. The result will fre· quently be a weekend on the roa~ with two games against top-notch opponents. 
"Notre Dame has to double up their games and play a lot of Friday and Sunday things," Syracuse coach Dean Foti said. "You're playing a confer­ence opponent, and two of them in three days. Even teams that are mediocre in the Big East are difficult to beat at home. In the Big East, you try to win home games and steal a couple on the road to end up at the top of the conference." 
"That's tough," Berticelli said. "You have to play your most important games on Friday and Sunday throughout the year. It's something we have to overcome. But we can't use it as an excuse." 
Notre Dame's No. 3 ranking clearly indicates Big East coaches believe Notre Dame can clear the hurdles. 
"Last year, they took Indiana to the limit in the NCAA," Boston College coach Ed Kelly said. "They'll be competitive right away." 
"I think they'll be very competitive," Foti said. "It's very tough to play on the road in the Big East. 
"Notre Dame is very tough at home. Anybody going to play Notre Dame at Notre Dame is in for a handful." 
Berticelli appreciates the respect of his fellow coaches, but he'll take the season as it comes. 
"Certainly the coaches think highly of us. I appreciate their respect for out team because there's some great teams in the Big East. It'll be interesting." 

St. Louis game only chance to experiment with combinations 
BY NEIL ZENDER 
Sports Writer 
Five is the magic number. Coach Mike Berticelli's Notre Dame Soccer Team has five starting positions available and Saturday's 7:30 p.m. exhibition game against St. Louis Univer­sity will decide the men who will fill them. 
"It's not a game that counts," Berticelli said. "We have to see 18 to 20 players perform. We don't know who's going to start. Five of eleven starting positions are open." The Irish are a young, rebuilding team, so the season could go either way. 
"It'll be pretty interesting," Berticelli said. "You can never tell what a young team can do. You don't know until things un­fold. We'll be competitive in every game. We have more tal­ent than we've ever had be­fore." The key to winning will be eliminating youthful mis­takes. 
Already slated to start are ju­nior Brian Engesser at de­fender, juniors Tony Capasso and Konstantin Koloskov at midfielder, and Senior Bill Lanza at forward. Sophomore Bill Savarino and freshman Matt Johnson will shift between midfielder and forward and midfielder and defender re­spectively. Sophomore forward Ryan Turner, who has seen limited practice with a lower back strain, will likely miss the game with a lower back strain. 
However, Berticelli is more concerned with determining who fills the starting lineup. 
"We need te see what they can and can't do and how they adjust to their roles." 
The Billikens are the perfect team to test a player against. Last season they went 16-6 and tied for first in the Great Mid­west Conference, which is now Conference USA. 
The Billikens lost 2-1 in the first round of the NCAA tour­nament to Creighton and ranks No. 15 in the Soccer America Poll. Last year, St. Louis lin­ished No. 20. The Billiken line­up includes All-American mid­fielder Matt McKeon. 
Berticelli is looking forward to watching his players fight for a starting job. 
"I think that's the fun part," he said. "We see them do it in practice. A game will reveal a great deal about players. We need to test them against really good team that will show some weaknesses." 


p,iige 18 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, August 25, 1995 
• • COLLEGE fOOTBALL 


Irish opponents face off in Kickoff Classic 
By JIMMY GOLEN 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 

Boston College started with nationally ranked Michigan and Virginia Tech last year and fell into an 0-2 hole. So this year, the Eagles made their schedule even tougher. 
Starting with Sunday's Kickoff Classic against No. 12 Ohio State, Boston College plays three ranked teams in a row. Overall. the No. 22 Eagles play six teams ranked in the pre­season Top 25. 
So why would coach Dan Henning agree to play in the Kickoff Classic? 
"It fits all the criteria of what we're doing here, and what we're trying to get done," he said, noting that the added ex­posure and revenue from the game -along with the recruit­ing boost from playing in East Rutherford, N.J. -were too much to pass up. 
After the Buckeyes, it's No. 24 Virginia Tech and No. 14 Michigan, followed by Michigan State, Pittsburgh, No. 23 West Virginia, Army, No. 9 Notre Dame, Temple, No. 11 Miami, Syracuse and Rutgers_ 
Despite the loss of leading tackler Stephen Boyd and first­round draft pick Mike Mamula, the Eagles' defense remains solid this year. But the offense will depend upon the continued emergence of Mark Hartsell and his young receivers. 
Hartsell was one of the top sophomore quarterbacks in the nation last year, completing 159 of 257 passes for 1,864 yards and 13 touchdowns. His coach has even higher hopes for him in 1995. 
"I hope that he will continue to play at the level he played last year, and take a step fur­ther into that wonderful land of intangible abilities that come out of true quarterbacks," Henning said. 
"He's a big strong athlete that can throw the ball. But to become a great quarterback, there's a trait there that comes out in the big game and it comes out in the most impor­tant part of the game. And I hope that he's able to do that." 
The only thing holding him back at this point. it seems, is the inexperience of the young men expected to catch his pass­es. Kenyatta Watson, the top returning receiver, is re­covering from a left hamstring injury; No. 2 pass-catcher Greg Grice is suspended for the first two games. 
Watson is expected to be ready for the opener. But if not, the Eagles will rely on three young receivers: freshman Anthony DiCosmo, redshirt freshman Dennis Harding and sophomore Steve Everson. 
Freshmen Derrick Crittenden and Brandon King are also standing by if needed. 

Bowden nervous about probe 
By BRENT KALLESTAD vented from playing in a bowl in the shopping spree. 
Associated Press game after this season and The NCAA also is believed to loses 30 scholarships the next be looking into another charge TALLAHASSEE, Fla. three years. that at least two other former Florida State coach Bobby The NCAA could have told Seminoles football players were Bowden, anxious to have an in­Florida State it was curtailing paid by a Jacksonville booster vestigation by the NCAA behind its formal six-month review or for a job with no duties. Both him, acknowledges that a pro­announced it had enough evi­players have denied the accusa­gram review is always worri­dence to warrant a full-scale tion and one, Green Bay All Pro some. investigation of the school's safety LeRoy Butler, has threat­
"You see how tough they athietic department policies. ened legal action. were on Alabama, and it scares "The review of information in Bowden said his 1995 team you," Bowden said Wednesday this case is continuing," wrote -ranked first heading into the after the NCAA delayed a final the NCAA's David Berst. season -wasn't affected by decision on its preliminary in­"Members of the enforcement the investigation and was anx­vestigation into a $6,000 shop­staff arfl making every effort to ious to play football. ping spree by Florida State complete the necessary inter­David Hart, Florida State's football players during the views to ensure that full infor­.new athletic director, also was team's 1993 national champi­mation is developed." disappointed the case isn't onship season. The Florida State probe cen­over. 
"I understand they are still ters around a November 1993 "It is frustrating, but it is an trying to talk to some people," after-hours shopping spree at a involved process," he said. he said. "I doubted it would local mall, where several play­Hart and Bowden both hoped have been resolved by today, ers received merchandise paid the NCAA would finish its re­but I'd feel better if it was be­for by prospective sports view before the start of the hind us." agents. football season. They now hope 
Earlier this month, the NCAA Five players were suspended to have the examination con­put Alabama on three years of last season from between two cluded by February, when col­probation. Alabama is also pre-and four games for their roles leges sign high school recruits. 
WELCOME BACK 
........a few reminders........ 
Papers, Journals, Study Questions are due ! 

------··-rlie-··ss'ii·-c-ereEr.ailaii................ 
August 26 (Saturday) Center for Social Concerns 
The Retreat begins at 5:00 pm on Friday til 5:00 pm on Sat. 
there are a couple of openings for Fr. Dan's class 
and your roou.u.ate's, and your Lest friend's, and your neigLLor's... 
Giant Party Subs & Platters from 
The Observer 
News Department is now accepting applications for the folloiwng paidpositions: 

Associate News Editor Assistant News Editor Chief Copy Editor Copy Editor 
Interested? Submit a brief resume & personal statement to Dave Tyler by Friday August 25th Questions? Call Dave@ 1-5323 
.,_... 
. 
BaJ / ~ 
Noodle 

r----------------, r---------------,
!Value Meal! Delivery l$1.00 OFF ! s4.49 Hours 
Get $1.00 off \•Chicken Fried Rice 4:30 -1:OOam 
I any purchase at ••Egg Roll 7 Days a 
Bai Ju's Noodle
I :•Cr. Cheese Wanton Week! 
House
:•Fortune Cookie 
($8 min. order) 
! 271-0125 
\ Good through 9/1/95 1 One coupon per person I 
~---------------­
G·J!b9&N:I1 
Don't miss Nationally Seventh Ranked 
NOTRE DAME 
in the volleyball event ofthe semester! 

Friday, August 25, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 
jou (ov~o U\..~ \T "B~.-uE 
QN "R-.c" 
No.\oo 
\-\ow 1\l!>ou~ "T.i£ A~~ow 
~ 
IJF rP11E .. 

SX>N. SC.I-\OC>l WILL ST~RI. 
NO t-\ORE FREE\:lOt'<\, NO MORE LONG DA'{S CAJTSII::E, 
NO tJ..ORE FUN . 

DILBERT 
BO'O WORKS IN PROCURE.I"\E~T 
YOUR DU11ES ARE Slt'WLE. PEOPLE WILL COME TO YOU AND AS\\ FOR T~INGS. 
) 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 26 Kind of sauce 31 Hermitage
1 Some cards 
figures 7 Bodybuilder's 
32 "Platoon" actor concern 
33 Bit 13 Ricocheted 34 Solar warmers 15 Central 35 Word with 
American house or mouse capital 36 Like summer days, often 
16 Fashionable 37 W.W. II locale,
11 "-Swings" 
in brief(1965 Roger 38 Novi Sad 

Miller hit) 
natives 18 Armchair 
39-Gables 

necessities for 40 Burial places
46-Across 
42Antibody20 Thomas Moore 
producerssubject 
43 To a fault 21 Something to 
44 Ho do lend or bend 
46 Armchair 22 Imbues with activity, gravity colloquially 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
A5SU/'\E All EMPLOYEES 
ARE LYING, TREI\SURE.­
1-AUNTING TI-\IEVE5. GIVE 
TI-AEt'\ LOW-COST SUB­
STITUTE5 AND CLAit'\ THE SA-VINGS ON 'YOUR 
ACCOMPLlSt\1"\ENT~. 
) 

53 Add one's two cents' worth 
54 Furniture worker 55 Anticipate 
58 Astor Cup competition, e.g. 
57 Gets wind of 58 Flip again 
DOWN 

1 Deface 2 Blanch 3Composer 
Khachaturian 4 Major ending 5 Thespians, 
perhaps 6 Spring rituals 7 Joked a Lodge 9Weight 
watcher's concern: Var. 
\-low 1\e,ou; ~ou "Ti'T\-E \; "No;llE. \)liME. \111~ Too 
H:;.+.:,=-E-+=-i 10 On even terms, old-style 11 Puzzle clues, .:.:+=-+=:.f.=+"-~ sometimes 12lnferior, as an excuse 14 Numerical prefix ~~~ 15 Lavatory sign ..:....+:~~ 19Aiert f.:;.+:;:.+::~,_. 22 Curtain fabric 
~~~~~ 23 Boston Symphony maestro 
~~~ 24 Mississippi feature 
25 Uncertain syllables 27 Moves via twists 
28-2600 (old game-playing machine) 
29 "East of Eden" director 30Eclogues 32 Archaic form of address 35 Rap sheet list 36 Breakfast delicacy 

SCOTT ADAMS 


38 Next available time 39 Mettle 41 Floral organ 42 Not as slack 
45 Country in a 1969 Beatles song 
461ce-cream flav. 
47 Take on 46 Ship's heading 49 Edict 50 Wild about 51 New Jersey five 52 Mardi­53 Baseball 
positions: Abbr. 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
.. 
SPORTS 
page 20 
.r 
StJohn~' Rutgers: 
make conference, 
national powet 
BYNEIL ZENDER Sports Writer 

The men's soccer team, 12~10"2 last season, was ranked third in· the ·Big East in a poll by copier" enee roaches. The Irish tied with Georgetown and 2li Slltorday were behind St. John's and Rutgers.· However. if Notre Dame is going to fuJfiJltbe expectatio11S of Coach Mike Berticelli's peers; they hav~ tl.J!lt of 
~~-
Suey

hurdles to clear. ··· · · The Irish are facing increased competition and <,i Sunay
frl= 

brutal travel schedule to boot as they.enterth~ Big Frldq
Stlndlly

East. Still, Berticelli is quite happy to join the 
Tlluraday 

conference. . . . . . .. !N't . •·· ·..• 
"From a·soccer perspectiveWs a great c!)hfer• >;,. ence," be said. The Big East. the BitflO and the 
=IJ

ACC are the better soccer i:ohferences... .. Notre Dame's Big ~as(QHllJ\pership wlUalS() 
=y

strengthen .recruiting beyond its l\'fidwest strong~ ="' 
bold. · · · ·· ·· 
SUR=ay
Tbu 

"The cohference gives· us exposure in. the East. Sl$day It's better to have BC.>UConn, Rutgers and Syracuse on your schedule than small schools peo­
t fridav

ple don't recognize; " 5 Sunday
.. 
10..12 fri~Suo 
a.........IW'S 


.. Cflr squad; . And all these words would lje app:r:opriate .. ThiS is a team which lost ......... ay~rs t.o ~~~~u~tion last year~ including$eyf!n .starters. Itis. als() a team loaded with 
•.•... yo:ung talent: eager to p:r:ove themselves to the collegiate so.ccer w()rld. · . In thelr inaugural season in the Big East 
ra.v,or•···,·s;· Conf('irence; the ~ri$h will haveplenty of oppor~ tunitles to· do so. 
·.. Tliff ltis}l begin the 1995 season having been :pegged with a trnrd.:pla.ce ranking in the Big East, a ~9nf~rence which Berticelll asserts. "is in my opiriion, the seeondstrongest in the nation." · This Claim would be hard to argue, especially when one considers that of the twelve teams in the· revamped Big East, seven· were ranked in the top 2 5 last season. Berticelli is relishing the chance to compete in such an upper-echelon con­ference, calling it "a real challenge, one which will be iJiteresting because we don't really know a lot of the teams in the conference ... 
While perhaps unacquainted as of now, the lrish will look to esta:blish a more personal rela­tionship with conf(;lrence powers such as Rutgers, St. John's, and Ge9rgetown. 
Leading the Irish welcoming committee will be senior forward Bill Lanza, the tremendously tal­ented attacker who lru>t year had to sit out the 
see IRISH I page16 
(Top left} An almost completely healthy Bill Lanza 
should solidify the Irish front line. 
(Center) Brian Engesser will have to pick up the slack 
with the losses of several players to graduation.
(Below) Konstantin Koloskov will enter his second 
season as a starter in the midfielder. · 
The Ob~erver/Jake Peters 
at St.louis {txlllllltlull) 
DS'AOC 
VALPAIIAISG 
SYRACIJ6E 
atRB~ 
ilts.tiUJHall 
IIIDIAIIA 
·BOSTOI COllEGE LO~ MARYMOIIIIJ 
at Nortbweatar11 
DETROIT 
SEDRIETOWN 
l'lfOVIBEMCE atst. Jtllm'• at WBst Vflglnll 
WESTall ICHI&Atl
at~==
at t;/HIIItlctlt:lll 
VIU.AKOVA 
at Wbmsla 
Bit ~at lilllrnament 
Cttlt-gamtllltllllllll:t 

Tight race for role of blocker 
By MEGAN McGRATH brothers out there; we're each scientious of their assign­Spons Writer other's main support." ments." Wallace concurs, saying, Though Chryplewicz is cur­
A quick glance at the Notre "We've become closer than in rently atop the depth chart, Dame football depth chart re­the past because we're doing Wallace expects to see a great veals what could be a battle for the same job and sharing the deal of playing time as welL supremacy at the tight end po­same experiences." ''I'm not really worried about sition. Tight ends coach Bob Chmiel the starting position because I 
Could be a battle, save for the believes the seniors also share believe we will both play," says fact that the two men contest­similar skills that makes pick­Wallace. "I think we're the ing for playing time, seniors ing a front-runner difficult. best (tight end) combination in Pete Chryplewicz and Leon "Pete and Leon are both the country . " 
LW..~--~-----------------"'---~.-l Wallace, refuse to declare war. great athletes with tremendous "I believe I'll be starting The Observer/Kev1n Klau "There is no competition," ability," Chmiel says. "They'reLeon Wallace (above) is contending for the starting tight end spot. says Chryplewicz. "We're like 
both strong, fast and very con-see FOOTBALL I page15 

Football 
vs. Northwestern September 2, 1:30 EST 
Volleyball 

vs. Northwestern September 1, 8 p.m. vs. USC September 2, 8 p.m. 
Men's Soccer 

at St. Louis August 26 (Exhibition) 
• BC, OSU set to battle Saturday Women's Soccer 

see page 18 

vs. Providence September 2, 10 a.m. vs. St. John's September 3, Noon 
• Sosa homers again for Cubs 

Cross Country 
see page 16 at Ohio State September 15 
• Frazier to start at QB for Nebraska see page 14 











