
Thursday, November 2, 1995• Vol. XXVII No. 48 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Lovell to retell Apollo story 

DOE project taps ND for financial aid test 
By BILL CONNOLLY for over 60 schools, including News Writer Harvard University, on the Quality Assurance Consortium. 
As part of the Clinton Before this past April. the Administration's attempt to Quality Assurance Consortium refrom the federal government, hs only discussed issues on the U.S. Education Department financial aid. has given the 
However. under Clinton's University of reforms, schools in the Notre Dame Consortium can now submit and other proposals to the Department of schools the Education regarding changes in opportunity the way financial assistance to tailor the should be given to the schools way they in the Consortium. deliver finan-One proposal by Notre Dame cial aid to Brandt which the Department of their stu-Education has already dents. approved is the amount of days 
U.S. Secretary of Education which a university in the Richard Riley recently Consortium can hold the funds announced the approval of 54 of a student's loan after enroll­five-year projects at more than ment. In the past, a mandatory 100 higher education institu­figure of 30 days was used for tions for the first phase of an all colleges. experiment excusing them from Under Notre Dame's recently certain statutory and regulato­enacted plan, the amount of ry requirements and permitting days can be adjusted to what­them to use innovative strate­ever figure lits the need of any gies designed to better meet member school in the their students' needs. Consortium. 
The schools were selected Brandt said that this stream­from among those with a lines the process by eliminating proven track record of deliver­a set figure which burdened ing financial aid without risk to different schools with dilTerent taxpayer dollars. needs. 
After nine years on the In all, Notre Dame submitted Quality Assurance Consortium, 15 different proposals, five of a branch of this program, Notre which have been approved, and Dame has a chair on the four in which Notre Dame will Consortium, Susan Brandt, participate. assistant director for financial 
see AID/ page 4 
aid. Brandt serves as the chair 
BY MAUREEN HURLEY 
Sailll Mary's Nows Editor 
"Houston, we have a prob­lem." 
Thosn five words begin a gripping story that Apollo 13 Commander James Lovell retells tonight at 7:30 p.m. in ()'Laughlin Auditorium of Saint Mary's Collngfl Moreau Center. 
Lovell and his crew were 55 hours into America's fifth mis-
Rest in peace 
sion to the moon when an explosion drained the craft's power and oxygen supply. The three-man crew managed to bring the craft safely back to Earth. an accompishment that is considered by many to be NASA's greatest hour. 
"We didn't realize the com­plete magnitude of this flight until we got back home and started reading about it," Lovell wrote. President Richard Nixon awarded the crew the Medal of Freedom, the nation's highest award. 

The tale of the near-disaster­ous mission was recounted by Lovell in his novel, "Lost Moon: The Perilous Voyage of Apollo 13." Director Ron Howard's motion picture release, "Apollo 13." also tells of the 1970 mis­sion, with Tom Hanks playing 
see LOVELL/ page 4 
The Observer/Aiyson Frick 
Mansa Limon of Lewis Hall and John Fernandez of Morrissey made this altar for Dia De Los Muertos. 
Police start blitz aimed at DUI related deaths 
Ry AMY SCI IMIDT As.i,r;onr News Ediror 
Drunk drivers bnware: thP stattl of Indiana has begun its firth staln-wide blitz of en­forcnrnnnt aimed at limiting al­cohol-rnlated fatalities and in­crnasing thn us11 of safnty belts. 
Named Operation Pull Over, the program is a statewide traf­lie safety earnpaign that works toward thren goals: 
• !!eduction of alcohol-related fatalities in Indiana from 228 dtmths in 199:{ to 205 deaths in 
JIJIJ5 
• 
Inernase of safety bnlt usage from 56 rwrcent in 199a to 70 percent in 1995 

• 
lnt:rtmsf~ of safely belt usage in 1996 by five percentage points. and decrease or alcohol­rnlawd traflic fatalities by live pfln:nnt points over the 1995 rnsults. 


Tlw program itself has two main eomponents: Enforcement and public information and education. 
The multi-year program has four key enforcement periods, ineluding Labor Day, the holi­day season, early spring, and Mmnorial Day. The South Bend area embarked on the holiday season campaign during a sobM lailgatll party held before Uw Boston College-Notre Dame gam11 on Oel. 28. 
Operation Pull Over's en­forcement component uses so-
Safety Belt Facts 
• 
6 in 1 0 members of each political party say they always wear seatbelts 

• 
Drivers of silver cars are most likely to buckle up. Those who drive blue, black and maroon cars are least likely. 

• 
Married drivers buckle up more than single drivers. 

• 
Persons born under Taurus and Leo are tops about buckling up, while Scorpios live dangerously 


briety checkpoints, increased traffic patrols. and internal law enforcement campaigns to de­crease incidents of drunk driv­ing and possibly prevent un­necessary alcohol-related fatalities. 
The public information and education component ranges from a complete print and eco­nomie campaign to high-profile state and regional kickoffs. Lo­cal awareness activities, such as the sober tailgate parties and other educational efforts, aim to inform and even shock people. 
"We hope to jolt people with 
see PULLOVER/page 4 




Contest helps design home 
By LIZ SMITH 
News Writer 
For students on the Notre Dame campus, community ser­vice is an integral part of col­lege life. 
Thus, when Habitat for Humanity sponsored a design competition for architecture majors, students were excited to have the opportunity to ben­efit the community through the use of skills learned in classes. 
Although the Notre Dame chapter of Habitat for Humanity built another home under the guidelines of the organization last spring, this is the first time that another Notre Dame group has been involved. 
Essentially, Habitat for Humanity is a worldwide orga­nization designed to facilitate the building of "simple and decent houses." 
Specific guidelines have been set in order to facilitate the eco­nomic building of the home. For instance, the architectural students who participated in the contest were restricted to a home of 1200 square feet, and required to include certain rooms. Usually, Habitat for Humanity utilizes a typical design, with very little devia­tion. However. in this case, slightly more creative freedom was allowed. 
The contest was launched the Saturday of fall break, when participants met with Mitzi Garner, the client for whom the house is being built. In addi­tion, the students who partici­pated visited the site, and began work on their designs. The following week, " a scheme was chosem due to its clarity of design, presence on the site, and functional flow," stated 

Professor Duncan Stroik, the coordinator of the competition. The winning design was sub­mitted by three students, Sean Tobin, a graduate arehitectural student, Johnny Cruz, a fifth year, and Marianela Gago, also a fifth year. 
"It was challenging, because it had to be simple and build­able, as well as beautiful," says Cruz regarding the project that occupied all of fall break. 
However, designing the house is only one step in the difficult process of actually getting the home built. For the co-presi­dents of the Notre Dame chap­ter of Habitat for Humanity, Heather Hughes and Josh Briggs, there are still months of work to be organized. 
Once clearance from St. Joseph's county is obtained, ground breaking will occur in the third week of November, with the pouring of cement the following week. The site cho­sen is located at the corner of Notre Dame avenue and Sorin Street. 
Although the specifications outlined by the Habitat organi­zation were key to the design, the site location also played an important role. The neighbor­hood surrounding the house is composed of early twentieth century , one and two-story homes. Thus. the winners uti­lized a design known as Greek Revival. In addition, Harner was directly involved in many of the decisions. 
Garner was satisfied with the small kitchen, because it allowed for more space in the living room area. which was integrated with an open dining area. The three bedroom home 
· will house her and her children, Darius and Alexandria. The rooms were also coordi­nated with the sun. The master bedroom faces the sun in the morning, while the living room faces the sun in the afternoon. The kitchen is designed to look out over the backyard. In addi­tion, Garner stipulated that the public rooms be entirely sepa­rate from the private. However, although the stu­dents were restricted in their designs through specifications and money constraints, they still managed to allow for the little touches. For instance, in order to integrate the one story house with the surrounding two story homes, the front of the home will be raised because of a brick base that will be built by volunteers and donated materials. In addition, a large front porch was added at the request of Garner, with pillars interspaced. Work on the house will con­tinue throughout the winter, as some of the walls and detailing will be constructed in the esc storage garage. The winners of 
see HABITAT/page 4 


page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday , November 2, 1995 


• INS!OE COLUMN 

The depths of utter indecency 
Can we sink to still lower depths? Foolish Sarah Cashore question, of course we Assistant Accent Editor 
can, and we undoubted­ly will, but right now, we've reached the nadir of exploitation. As I began my quick perusal of the Chicago Tribune yesterday morning, I came across an article which I continued to read even as the bitter bile of disgust rose in my throat. "Ruling blocks fast return of items to O.J.," the headline read, but it was the subheadline which drew my attention: "Simpson will sign, sell Bronco pursuit pictures." 
Yes, our society can sink that low. Yes, a man acquitted of murdering his ex-wife and her friend can turn around a month later and capitalize on their deaths and the pain of their families by agreeing to autograph pic­tures of his flight .from the authorities. According to the Tribune article, Simpson and "driver-pal Al Cowlings" will not only sell autographed pictures of the Bronco chase for $129.95 and $159.95, Simpson and defense attorney Johnnie Cochran will also be offer­ing autographed courtroom pictures for $99.95. 
Some may try to excuse Simpson by citing the astronomical legal debts he incurred while assembling his All-Star defense team, and those who believe that he is innocent may protest that Simpson himself was the victim of exploitation. But this is not about Simpson's fiscal status, or about his guilt or innocence. This is about common decency. 
Whether O.J. Simpson or a person or per­sons unknown murdered Nicole Brown Simpson and Ronald Goldman, the fact remains that they were murdered. The cir­cumstances of their brutal deaths, the inti­mate details of their lives, were presented to the world during the "Trial of the Century." In attempting to resolve the question of the deaths of Nicole Brown Simpson and Ronald Goldman, all parties involved victimized the pair in death as they had been victimized in the last few minutes of life. Regardless of his guilt or innocence, for Simpson to perpetuate this victimization for purely fmancial reasons is despicable and disturbing. 
Is anyone struck by such reprehensible exploitation? Have we become so inured to exploitation in our "National Enquirer-Inside Edition-Hard Copy" culture that we not only accept exploitation but also expect it? Does the general population see anything wrong with Simpson's decision to peddle merchan­dise related to the death of his ex-wife? Have we become numbed to utter immorality, to gross excess, to the ruthless pursuit of self­interest? Believe me, I am no William Bennett, but I do see something fundamental­ly wrong with a society which implicitly con­dones exploitation by providing an audience and a market for Cowlings, Cochran, Simpson, and countless others. 
The fact that those who choose to support Simpson's economic exploitation are support­ing a man convicted of spousal abuse is a subject for another discussion. I can only . reiterate the reaction of the president of the Los Angeles chapter of the National Organization for Women, quoted in the Tribune: "It is shameful that he is signing courtroom photos and Bronco photos. Maybe he should also sign autopsy photos." 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• WoRlD AT A GuttcE 

Strike threatens Chrysler 
DETROIT 
About 1,000 workers went on strike Wednesday at a 
Chrysler Corp. plant that makes windshields and window 
glass for most of the automaker's cars and trucks. The 
walkout at McGraw Glass Division by the United Auto 
Workers could quickly force the shutdown of Chrysler as­
sembly plants. Under the "just-in-time" supply system 
used by Chrysler, the glass is produced and shipped as 
needed by assembly plants. That means the plants will 
have to stop building vehicles when they exhaust the 
s_upply on hand. Negotiations continued after the strike 
began. The talks recessed Wednesday evening but were 
to resume Thursday. UAW spokesman Bob Barbee said 
the walkout was prompted by grievances over health and 
safety. Neither Barbee nor Chrysler spokeswoman Nicole 
Solomon would elaborate. But sources who spoke on 
condition of anonymity said the dispute stems from 
Chrysler plans to use outside suppliers for some of its 
glass. Chrysler's trend has been to sell off its parts opera­
tions. Seventy percent of the money it spends on parts for 
its vehicles goes to outside suppliers. Under pressure 
from the union, Chrysler said earlier this year that it had 
no plans to sell the McGraw plant. But discussions are 
continuing about a possible joint venture with another 
glass maker, PPG Industries. The UAW has used strikes 
or the threat of strikes to fight efforts by all of the Big 
Three automakers to expand the use of outside suppliers. 
Gambling proposal gains support 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton supports legislation that would establish a commission to study the impact of legal gambling -a measure the casino industry sees as a step toward a ban. The bill's backers, including Sen. Dick Lugar, R-Ind., released a letter from Clinton on Wednesday and said they are building support, with 102 co-sponsors in the 

House and eight co-sponsors in the Senate. The commis­sion would not outlaw legal gambling. But casino and riverboat officials say it would be the first step toward a ban. The bill would set up a panel to study the industry's economic impact, political contributions and influence, connection to crime rates, effect on compulsive gambling, and who should regulate Indian gaming. Proponents of the bill say the gambling boom has -in every state but Utah and Hawaii -spawned crime, false economic promises, political corruption and addiction. Opponents defend the industry's legitimacy. 
Cop in clown suit makes 12 arrests 
PAULSBORO, N.J. 
A police officer who went trick-or-treating as a clown on Halloween bagged a dozen fugitives. Most of those arrested -who faced mostly routine traffic charges ­responded good-naturedly. One was peevish: "Man, you got me under false pretenses," Police Chief Kenneth Ridinger said. Some at the police station were a bit more upset. "I think it sucks," said Cindy Hughes, handcuffed and arrested for an outstanding traffic ticket after the clown at the door asked for her. The costumed visitor Hughes thought was a friend was actually Officer Craig Kraemer. Wearing a bulletproof vest under his costum«;J, Kraemer called out "Trick or treat!" at each house and asked for the person named in the warrant. The tactic made a dent in a stack of 400 outstanding arrest war­rants, including one person facing a firearms charge and another accused of smashing a car's windows while a child was inside. · 


The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Thursday, Nov. 2. 
30s 

Adding area codes 
Parts of 17 states & are receiving new area codes. )/ 
T8l(l!s: Dallas Houston Mo. Tenn. Ala.  
972  281  573 423 334  
lerritorietS: Sahatnas242. Bermuda 441, Caribbean 809  T  
AP/Wm. J. Castello  

Trading cancer for cellulite? 
BOSTON 

During the 1980s, a lot of Americans stopped smoking, and a lot of Americans put on weight. That's not entirely a coincidence. A study found that the weight gain that is almost inevitable when people give up cigarettes partly explains the increase in obesity among Americans during the '80s. As undesirable as gaining weight may be, how­ever, continuing to smoke is much worse. A nationwide survey of 5,247 adults over age 35 showed that during the 1980s, obesity increased 10 percent among men and eight percent among women."During that same time, smoking declined," said Katherine Flegal of the National Center for Health Statistics. "Is smoking cessation one of the reasons for this increase?" Apparently, yes. Kicking the habit accounted for one-quarter of the decade's weight gain among American men and one-sixth among women. Thirteen percent of Aniericans over 35 gave up smoking during the 1980s; women who gave up smoking put on an average of 11 pounds and men 10 pounds. One explanation is that smoking speeds up the metabolism, so people who quit smoking will burn calories slower. 
Teens take 'charge' of crowd 
PLANO, Texas 

A 13-year-old got sick of sightseers creating a traffic jam in front of her neighbors' fire-damaged home. So she and her pals surrounded the cars, solicited a "gawking fee" and raised more than $600 for the burned-out fam­ily. "We came up with a little speech and rehearsed it with our sad faces and started asking if they'd like to do­nate some money," Seychelle Van Poole said Wednesday. They got about 150 people to make donations ranging from 25 cents to $40, netting $610.25 for the Frenkil family. The family lost everything in the blaze, which did an estimated $220,000 in damage, Mrs. Frenkil said. Seychelle said she got the idea to help Sunday after lis­tening to neighbors complain about the sightseers the police had to be called to direct traffic. "There would be four of us at a time," she said. "We'd surround the car and they couldn't get away. Most of them were very nice, but you have those people who blow you off." 
News  Viewpoint  
Heather Cocks  Michael O'Hara  
Ethan Hayward  Production  
Sports  Jackie Moser  
Mike Day  Heather Dominique  
Graphics  Lab Tech  
Brian Blank  Mike Hungeling  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday <hrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1995 AccuWealher, Inc. 
Pressure 



HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT: CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Asbury Park 68 52 Chicago 40 31 Philadelphia 70 58 Atlanta 75 63 Dallas 50 41 Princeton 71 58 Baltimore 74 59 Dayton 49 48 StLouis 64 46 Boston 64 51 Las Vegas 64 44 Vulcan 25 14 
C 1995 AccuWeather, Inc. 

Calgary 27 10 Milwaukee 40 28 Yonkers, N.Y. 71 59 
The Observer • NEWS page 3 
• 'A CLOSER LOOK AT••• THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY SYSTEM 

2 million books later, Library keeps growing 
By EMILY DIXON the library's electronic Nc.-ws Writer resources, such as online and CD-ROM, is also a top priori­
A far cry from the small ty. collection of books housed in Arguably the Hesburgh Li­the old Administration brary's single strongest Building during the collection, the Medieval University's early years, the Institute has more than Theodore M. Hesburgh 60,000 volumes and micro­Library now has over 2 mil­film copies of medieval manu­lion volumes and continues to scripts, placing the Institute grow rapidly. as a center for research on 
Opened in 1963 due to the the Christian civilization of tremendous fundraising the Middle Ages. efforts of then-President The Dante collection ranks Father l-lesburgh, the library high among the most compre­was the University's first hensive in the world of its fundraising campaign. kind. Areas in theology and Thousands of alumni and sports are also extensive and friends helped to finance the the Latin American collection large-scale project to which is continually expanding. llesburgh was so committed. In size, the Hesburgh 
The library's primary goal Library cannot compare to is to providll strong reference the number one ranked and research materials to Harvard Library, which hous­meet the needs of the Notre es about 12 million volumes; Dame academic community. however, the library holds its In order to achieve this goal, own amid the 108 university the University has allotted an libraries that are among the additional $650,000 in fund­Association of Research ing this year and for the next Libraries. five years to improve the The library's ranking is library. This additional fund­improving considerably every ing will be used to add staff, year through the help of improve the library's various endowments and Friends of collections, and increase the Library contributions. income received from endow­Gifts of Friends provide funds ments. for the purchase of materials 
Staying current technologi­that could not otherwise be cally by constantly updating acquired by the library. 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN donations. "Sometimes," Fud­Research Collection, are pre­News Writer erer said, "we get donations sent in the Special Collection of whole collections from fac­as well. 
A bible illustrated by Sal­ulty and priests who have The Joyce Collection con­vador Dati, Cuneiform­large libraries of rare and out tains many ephemeral printed inscribed tablets, a full paper of print books." materials. Such items include run of Sports Illustrated. Rare Books contains many programs, pictures, scorecards These and other treasures are first editions, as well as sever­and media guides from a vari­part of the University's Special al expensive reproductions. ety of sports. Collections. Most prominent among these "Most of our visitors are not 
Special Collections is based is a copy of the "Book of Kells" from Notre Dame," said in 102 Hesburgh Library. The reproduced by scholars at George Rugg, a librarian in the glass-walled room in the first Trinity College in Dublin, Joyce Collection. "There isn't floor concourse is often donated by the "Wild Geese", really a good sports historian bypassed by students, and an Irish cultural organization. left on this campus. The visi­most don't even know by what The Notre Dame Collection, tors mostly research the busi­they are walking. "You would consisting of all theses and ness of sports, not sports be surprised how many dissertations by Notre Dame themselves." seniors walk in here with students, Notre Dame Press But many of the items in the there parents and say, 'I didn't books, and published works by Joyce Collection are only perti­even know this place existed, " Notre Dame professors, is an­nent to the history, and not the said Laura Fuderer, Rare Book other part of Special business, of sports. Among librarian. Collections. these are 14,000 college foot­
"There are about 29 Special The John A. Zahm Dante ball programs and 8,000 nega­Collections, with the rare Collection, now on display with tives of boxing photos from the 
The Observer/Katie Kroener books being the largest," other works from the New­1920's, 1930's, and 1940's. The Reserve Book Room contains Fr. Hesburgh's personal collection Fuderer stated. Special berry Library in Chicago and Visit the collections at: http: of over 40,000 works signed by the original authors. Collections relies heavily on the Edmund P. Joyce Sports //www.nd.edu/-rarebooksl 
Satellite libraries focus on academic fields, provide study space 
By ANGELA PETRUCCI legal research. The library materials are highly technical ture Library is presently found in bio-medicine. News Wrirer collections consist primarily and specialized for these par­being renovated, students can In addition to these branch of the laws of the United ticular fields, according to still access the architecture libraries, there are also two 
The llesburgh Library is not States. individual states and Thurston Miller, head of the materials on the second floor information centers located the only library that exists on foreign countries. These are library. However, many of the Hesburgh Library. The on campus. The Kellogg In­campus. In faet. there are in the form of periodical undergraduate students studios featured in the old formation Center. located in many libraries in specialized literature, texl books, trea­might use the library for library are now located in the the Hesburgh Peace Center fields to whieh students have tises, and encyclopedias. reserve materials and for a Hayes-Healy/l-lurley complex. since 1991, hosts a variety of aeeess, speeilieally the Law, Jacobs also stated that the place to study. The Engineering Library, newspapers and reference Chemistry I Physics, coming of new technologies, The Mathematics Library located in 149 Fitzpatrick materials mostly concerning Mathtlmaties, Architecture, such as on-line materials and contains journals, books and Hall, houses collections Latin America. Though used Engin11ering, and Life CD ROM, provides a greater monograph series. Under­including PC computers to by mostly international stu­Sdnnces Libraries, as well as basis of knowledge for law graduate students are wel­access on-line information. dents, the center is welcome the Kellogg Information students and "gives the young come to use the library, but Many students use the library to all for study and research. Center and Business Informa­lawyer the kind of materials most students use it for items as a place for study -includ­The Business Information tion Center. they will have when they on reserve or for studying ing group study -because of Center, new this year, is 
Whiln all of thll libraries are graduate." The library is lo­purposes. The library is the large tables available. located in the College of ori1mted toward thnir respee­cated in the Law School and located in 200 Computer The Life Sciences Library, Business Administration. This tive fields of study, they are is open Monday through Center/Math Building. located in 149 Galvin Hall and entirely electronic library opnn to students of all majors. Friday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. According to Sheila Curl, also called the Kirsch-Wen­gives access to UNLOC, the 
The Law Library, aceording The Chemistry/Physics Li­head librarian for both the ninger Life Sciences Research Dow Jones and OS2 Warp, to Director lloger Jaeobs, was brary, loeated in 231 Nieuw­Architecture and Engineering Library, consists mostly of which has Internet access. nstablished primarily for stu­land Science Hall, includes libraries, the two libraries are biological abstracts found on The resources are still being dnnts in tlw Law Sehool; how­materials used primarily by used by both undergraduates CD-ROMs that deal with the developed, but the librarians ever. it is also open to any faculty. graduate, and post­and graduate students in both life sciences. These abstracts can refer students to places in individual interested in doing doctoral students because the fields. Although the Architec-index a variety of material Hesburgh for more materials. 


------------------------~ -­
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, November 2, 1995 
For01er fed passes Waco blaiDe--r 
By MARCY GORDON 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Blaming his former col­leagues and another law en­forcement agency for the disas­ter, a former FBI negotiator told senators Wednesday that the 1993 Waco siege was "almost beyond repair" when the bureau got involved. 
"The American people have the right to expect better," said Clint Van Zandt, who was on the FBI team that negotiated with members of the Branch Davidian cult during the 51-day standoff in Texas. 
For its part, the FBI acknowl­edged it made mistakes in the siege and explained the changes it has made since then as the Senate Judiciary Committee completed two days of Waco hearings. 
FBI Director Louis J. Freeh, meanwhile, assured a House subcommittee chairman that the bureau would never again use tactics that lack a "legiti­mate basis." 
Both the FBI and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and 
Lovell 
continued from page 1 
Lovell. 
Lovell served as chief techni­cal adviser throughout the movie's production, to ensure historical accuracy of the film. 
The Christian Science Monitor stated, "Never in recorded history has a journey of such peril been watched and waited-out by almost the entire human race." 
Lovell was one of nine men chosen by NASA in 1962 to fly in the Apollo and Gemini mis­sions. 
In his 11-year NASA career, he logged 715 hours in space over his four missions_ 
He was also a member Apollo 8, America's first lunar orbit, earning him and his crewmembers the title of Time Magazine's Men of the Year. 
Tickets for tonight's lecture are avaliable at the Saint Mary's Box office in Moreau Center from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., or at the door. 
Ticket prices are $15 for adults, $10 for students. 
Thursday, November 2
STEAMBOAT VAIL/BEAVER CREEK 
8:00P.M. HILTON HEAD ISLAND
·PERPERSOHilEPENOINGoNoesn•~'OH'sREAKoATEs/LENGTHOFsrAv. 
L .J
Washington Hall 
f~$:QG~SIINCII-4S'E 
Free admission 
YOL.L nHi INftllloiATION & I!E'SJfRvATIONS _ . 
~~~~------------------~==~ 

Firearms have been assailed in recent weeks for their conduct in the Waco incident and the 1992 deadly standoff against white separatist Randy Weaver at Ruby Ridge, Idaho. The latest Senate inquiry followed 10 days of politically charged hearings on Waco in the House over the summer and a recently con­cluded investigation of Ruby Ridge by a Senate Judiciary subcommittee. 
"Tactics that have no legiti­mate basis as either part of a sound negotiation strategy or part of a well-planned tactical solution are not going to be part of this FBI," Freeh wrote Rep. Bill McCollum, R-Fla., chairman of the House Judiciary subcommittee on crime. 
Cult leader David Koresh and 80 followers died as their com­pound burned on April 19, 1993, after FBI agents used a tank to punch holes in the building and insert tear gas. 
The standoff had begun Feb. 28 after four ATF agents were killed and more than a dozen others wounded when they tried to serve a search warrant as part of a firearms investiga­tion. Six Branch Davidians also died in the shootout. 
The ATF agents "should never have been ordered into such a confrontation," said Van Zandt, who retired from the FBI in the last year. The FBI, which took over after the ATF raid, entered a situation that was "almost beyond repair," he asserted. 
Van Zandt said the FBI's hostage rescue team, which used intimidating tactics such as blasting music and loud noise over loudspeakers lfhd cutting off electricity to fhe compound, frustrated the nego­tiators working to gain the Davidians' trust. One tape used was the wrenching sound of rabbits being slaughtered. i, 
In his letter to McCollum. Freeh cited the playing'of chants or other types of tapes over loudspeakers as examples of practices the FBI was drop­ping. 
"We lost any chance of trust we had because of the tactical options that were being exe­cuted throughout this time," Van Zandt said. 
Van Zandt's view got support from William Esposito, assistant director of the FBI's criminal investigation division, who told the senators, "There certainly was a disconnect between the negotiations and the tactical people." ; 
Judiciary Commit~ee Chairman Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, concurred, saying: "The hostage rescue team worked at cross-purposes with the negoti­ating team." 
Since the failed siege, Esposito said, the FBI has re­vamped and expanded its crisis management teams, and is working to have tactical people and negotiators "blend togeth­er" to cooperate in a crisis. "We're going to keep making changes to ... continue to im­prove as we go along," he added. 
But there were other prob­lems in Waco, including Koresh himself, according to former follower Graeme Craddock. 
Craddock testified that he be­lieved the standoff "could have ended in a peaceful manner." 


~~~;~-~~:~a~;~~t·;·:~a;;~:~a:~:;::·~:;~;;::·;;:~;;:~~~~ 
1 

~k Fawlty Artist Series Prese11IS ~.-,~~ 
X ~~~ 
~"' ''~
·, WILLIAN! CERNY,pianist i celebrates the i! 100tlz Birthday Anniversary of j 
i Paul Hindemitlz ! i0 (1895-1963) ! ~ 0 0 
i i
! 2:00P.M. ! !i Sunday, November 5 ~ ! 
• 0 
~ Annenberg Auditorium ~­~~~ The Snite Museum of Art ~~ ~&•a•o••a•a•o•f.:~!.3.~~~-~e::..1Yo,t.?..!.~.e..P..!i?l.~ooa•a•o•o•a~~ 
Faces Artistic Design Center 
54777 Fir Road Mishawaka 
255-5556 Your Skin Tells A Story... ...Don't Let It Be A NIGHTMARE! 
• 
Free skin analysis 

• 
Guaranteed results Penny Bowyer 




in just two weeks Licensed Para-Medical Esthetician 
• Therapeutic treatment for acne & other skin problems 
• We use and reco~n~nend Gabriel Skin Care Treatment Products 
Visit Our Nail Salon! 
Complete Set ofNails... ~ 
4g/

•• • $3500 IP' 
Hair • Skin Care • Nails • Massages • Tanning Offer Good 'tilll2/15/95 
Aid 
continued from page 1 
All these projects will allow all schools in the program's dif­ferent consortiums greater flex­ibility in financial aid decisions such as those made by Notre Dame. 
The program intends to inofrm students about student loan repayment obligations, including exemptions from entrance and exit loan counsel­ing regulations. 
Making loan funds available to students is another goal which the no-longer mandatory 30-day delayed disbursement for first-time borrowers would fall into. 
The program will help calcu-
Habitat 
continued from page 1 
the contest will generate a full set of construction drawings, while details are ironed out by Hughes and Briggs. It is the Habitat for Humanity members who will be doing the majority of the construction work, such as roofmg, siding, and installing the windows. . 
The effort expended by the members of Habitat for Humanity is illustrated by the amount of funds that have been raised for the project. Thirty­five thousand dollars has been raised since Christmas. 
Pullover 
continued from page 1 
the alarming statistics and sto­ries," said Darcie Humphrey, communications manager for Operation Pull Over. 
Humphrey said that the edu­cation component targets a pri­mary audience of males under 30 years of age. 
Among drivers who died in a crash and whose blood alcohol content (BAC) was known, 34 percent were males with BAC levels higher than .05%, Indiana's legal threshold for impairment. 
According to Humphrey, dri­vers in the 16-19 year-old group made up only six percent of the state's licensed drivers in 1992, but accounted for more 
DAYTONA BEACH 
I(IJ'Ihf4Jjl 
late the student cost of atten­dance, including exemptions from mandatory inclusion of loan fees in cost of attendance and mandatory loan proation for graduating students. 
Finally, the program hopes to help students arrange to pay for their education and related costs. 
This would be done through exemptions allowing crediting of Title IV aid to institutional charges without individual written authorizations from students and exemption to allow crediting of Title IV aid to prior term charges. 
Notre Dame's involvement in this program may help lessen the work and finances placed on inefficient forms and other bureaucratic red tape. 
For instance, a Christmas drive was organized, as well as donations from the paychecks of those who worked JPW weekend. An alumnus matched the fundraising abilities of the organization through a $15,000 donation. 
Through the work of Habitat for Humanity, one woman and her children now have the opportunity to live in a house of their own. 
As competition winner Gago stated, "It was a wonderful experience, in that I was able to participate in a good cause, and support a recognized communi­ty service leader such as Habitat for Humanity." 
year. 
The Governor's Council on Impaired and Dangerous Driv­ing and 300 local law enforce­ment departments sponsor Op­eration Pull Over; so far, the Governor's Council reports that efforts have been successful: Indiana's fatality rate is run­ning notably lower than last year. 
Humphrey stressed that edu­cation about the dangers of drunk driving is imperative, and that one of Operation Res­cue's main goals is to save lives. 
"If you develop safe driving habits early in life, you get a sense of your own mortality," said Humphrey. "We want to educate, but also let people know that if you break the law you will get busted." 

COBA hosts twenty prospective students 
By BILL CONNOLLY 
News Wnter 
The Univeristy of Notre Dame College of Business Administration will host a four­day information seminar begin­ning today and ending Sunday for' 20 African-American candi­dates for the college's Master's of Business Administration pro­gram. 
According to Mrs. Liana Cunningham, director of MBA admissions. the program was crnatnd this year to increase mihority enrollment at a uni­veristy where the number of hlaeks in the general student body is too low. 
Sponsored by the Ford Motor Company and the MBA pro­gram, tho seminar is designed to help the eollege attract and enroll more qualified minority stUdents. 
Ford rnadll a eommittment of a large sum of dollars to the univeristy in order to improve minority enrollment. 
Notre Dame initiated the idea of inviting African­Arneriean students to campus, and eonsulted with Ford before utilizing the money needed to organize this program. 
All of the participants in this program are collegfl graduates currnntly in the workforce. 
After taking the Graduate Managment Aptitude Test. the Educational Testing Service released the participants' nanws to various universities with the participants' participa­tion. 
All of the students Notre Dame thought were qualified wnnl sent invitations to this wnknnd's events. The lirst 20 to respond were the 20 chosen 
The Observer • NEWS page 5 

Harvest benefits food bank 

The readers will be Sayers, a novelist; novelist and nonflc· tion writer William O'Rourke, professor of English; poet Jacqueline Brogan, professor of English; poet Henry Weinfield, assistant professor in the Program of Liberal Studies; poet and novelist Jere Odell, a recent graduate of the Creative Writing Program: novelist James Walton, profes· sor of English; poet Dolores Frese, professor of English; novelist Ronald Weber, profes­sor of American Studies; poet and novelist Sonln Gernes, professor of English; novelist Elizabeth Christman, associate professor emerHn of American Studies; and novelist Matthew Benedict, a recent graduate of the Creative Writing Program. 
Sayers says it promises to be an interesting evening. "I think it'll be exciting on a lot of levels." 
Court edits Dogg's testimony 
to participate in the events. 
The participants' program of events includes activities designed to show them both the intellectual and social sides of Notre Dame. 
Today the prospective stu­dents will attend an MBA tacti­cal marketing class and be introduced to their MBA gradu­ate student hosts. 
On Friday, the participants will be introduced to Larry Ballinger, director of the MBA program. 
They will then attend an entreprenurial class, followed by presentations from Ford officials and the Notre Dame faculty, alumni. and adminis­trators. 
The students will also tour the campus, including the new College of Business Administration complex that is among the most technologically advanced in higher education. 
According to Cunningham, it will be advised to the partici­pants that Notre Dame's MBA program is nationally recog­nized for its emphasis on busi­ness ethics and has been rated by Business Week magazine as one of the most innovative pro­grams in the country. 
After dinner at Cactus Jack's, the participants will receive a slice of the social life at Notre Dame when they attend the Football Pep Rally. 
The weekend's events will culminate i the participants attending the Notre Dame-Navy football game. 
Cunningham hopes that this will enforce not only the image of a great social life at Notre Dame, but also the pride stu­dents find in their university. 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 
An appeals court on Wednes­day upheld a judge's order that prosecutors can only use edited versions of defendants' state­ments in the murder trial of rapper Snoop Doggy Dogg and two other men. 
Prosecutors contend that the edited statements approved by Superior Court Judge Paul Flynn seriously impair their case. 
They want to use the full statements to show discrepan­cies between the defendants' account and those of eyewit­nesses to the slaying. 

The prosecution has until Monday to decide whether to accept the edited statements or pursue alternatives, including dropping charges against the singer and his co-defendants and refiling them. 
Snoop, whose real name is Calvin Broadus, is charged with McKinley Lee and Sean Abrams in the 1993 drive-by slaying of Philip Woldemariam. 
The joint trial of the three is now in the jury selection phase. 
The defendants claim that Lee fired the fatal shot in self­defense after Woldemariam pointed a gun at them as they drove past. 
Prosecutors contend that the three were searching for Woldemariam, bent on revenge after a confrontation in front of Broadus' nearby apartment. 
The prosecution wants jurors to hear unedited tape record­ings of statements Lee and Abrams made to police before they were charged. Flynn or­dered them to edit out portions that might incriminate the speaker's co-defendants. 
The appeals court said edit­ing the statements was "consti­tutionally mandated" and rejected prosecutors' request for separate trials or separate juries under the existing indict­ment, a move that would allow them to use the full statements. 
ToJu Majors 
vory, hear .and 
Monday, to 9 p.m. Morris Inn, .,,,,,~~=
......~lli,,,~,,,,R,:;;;·-·im e Room 
\ 
\ 
t\ 
~-~-Refreshments will be served. Casual attir~ please. ~~~--~~~~~~----~~~~~~~--~~~--~----------~ 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS 
Pres, GOP Quebec separatists debate vow another atteiDpt 
spending 
By ALAN FRAM 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton and Republican congressional lead­ers came face-to-face Wednesday to address their budget impasse, but before they met, both sides all but dared each other to trigger an unprecedented federal default. 
In his latest threat to force a halt in federal borrowing that could prevent the government from paying its creditors, House Speaker Newt Gingrich said Wall Street investors told Republicans on Wednesday morning that "the market would shrug it off' if the gov­ernment went into default. 
"The market would under­stand this is not a financial default," Gingrich; R-Ga., told reporters. "This is a political struggle. There's a huge differ­ence." 
Republicans say Congress won't approve a long-term extension of federal borrowing authority, which is set to expire this month, unless the presi­dent accepts the GOP's seven­year budget-balancing plans. Gingrich said Republicans were willing to discuss extending borrowing authority, but only if administration officials "are willing to be serious" about discussing spending and tax cuts. 
Administration officials and many economists say that if the government's $4.9 trillion debt ceiling were reached and a first-ever federal default occurred, the results probably would include higher interest rates and a resounding shock to financial markets. 
Gingrich's remarks drew a quick response from administration officials, who sounded just as implacable. 
White House spokesman Mike McCurry said Clinton would rather have a default than accept the current Republican budget plan. The president has promised to veto the GOP package, which he says slices Medicare, Medicaid, and other social programs too deeply and provides too large a tax cut. 
"There's no guarantee that it's going to work out in the end this time, given the posture that the president is in and the posture that the Congress is in," McCurry said. 
Leon Panetta, the White House chief of staff, added, "For God sakes, let's not threaten the country with default in exchange with buy­ing into their priorities." 
The White House session was 
the first direct meeting 
between Clinton and GOP con­
gressional leaders on the bud­
get since Sept. 12. 
One possible solution to the 
default problem is a short-term 
extension of borrowing author­
ity. The administration has 
proposed an extension into 
mid-January, presumably 
when the budget battle would 
be over. 
But Republicans have talked 
of sending Clinton a shorter 
extension, perhaps through 
Nov. 29, enough time for him 
to receive the GOP balanced­
budget package. The budget 
bill itself would contain a long­
term debt-limit extension, 
included by Republicans to 
pressure Clinton to sign the 
measure. 
By DAVID CRARY 
Associated Press 
MONTREAL 
Undeterred by their referen­dum defeat, Quebec separatists cleared the way Wednesday for Lucien Bouchard -the charis­matic leader who rallied a floundering campaign to the brink of victory -to take over the provincial government. 
Bouchard, who remained coy about his plans, could breathe new life into the independence movement if he leaves his seat in Parliament to replace outgo­ing Quebec Premier Jacques Parizeau. 
As soon as he learned of the separatists' narrow loss in Monday's secession referen­dum, Bouchard vowed to launch another breakaway at­tempt. 
At a dramatic news confer­ence Tuesday, Parizeau, 65, announced that he would re­sign next month. 
He cited the defeat as the reason, but he also had come under harsh criticism from his colleagues for blaming the loss on non-French immigrants. 
The separatists lost Monday by 50.6 percent to 49.4 percent -just 53,000 votes out of 4.6 million cast. 
About 90 percent of Quebec's immigrants voted against sepa­ration, while 60 percent of the French-speaking majority voted for it. 
La Presse, a French-language Montreal daily, said pressure on Bouchard from party mili­tants was so intense that he had no choice but to take over from Parizeau as premier and Parti Quebecois leader. 
Other possible contenders said they would defer to Bouchard if he sought the two posts. 
"It's the man who can best serve the cause who should be the successor," said Deputy Premier Bernard Landry. 
"In everyone's eyes it's Lucien Bouchard." 
The Parti Quebecois, which took power in Quebec last year, chooses its leader through a vote of all 150,000 members. 
The party leadership council, which sets dates for such elec­tions, is not scheduled to meet until Dec. 9, but could move up the session. 
Federalists fear Bouchard 
could be an even more formi­dable foe than Parizeau, and they assailed him for threaten­ing to initiate a new secession campaign so soon after the divisive referendum. 
"Enough is enough," said Daniel Johnson, leader of the federalist Liberal Party in Que­bec. 
"The last thing that Que­beckers want is another refer­endum. They want a govern­ment that governs." 
Quebec law prohibits two ref­erendums being held on any one topic during a single gov­ernment's term of office. Bouchard could try to amend that law to pave the way for another referendum. 
But even some Parti Quebecois leaders feel the first task should be to tackle Quebec's financial problems. 
"To have only one referen­dum during each term is a wise choice," said Public Security Minister Serge Menard. "It re­quires a lot of energy from politicians and citizens." 
In the aftermath of the refer­endum, Prime Minister Jean Chretien's federal government has promised to work quickly on political changes that might satisfy Quebec nationalists. 
Chretien said those changes could include formal recogni­tion of Quebec as a "distinct so­ciety" and decentralization that would shift some federal pow­ers to Quebec and other provinces. 
Bouchard told reporters Tuesday in Ottawa he had no interest in discussing those pro­posals, which he called half­measures. 
"There is nobody who is go­ing to get us sovereigntists into another 30-year cycle of sterile discussions, of trickery, of swindles," he said. 
"Quebec will negotiate as equal-to-equal after it has achieved its sovereignty." 
Bouchard has long been pop­ular in Quebec, but he gained near-mythic status last year when he lost a leg to a nearly fatal flesh-eating disease, then returned energetically to the separatist campaign, walking with a cane. 
A month before the referen­dum vote, the separatists were trailing badly in the polls. 
Interested in creating the Loft series this spring? Bringing up and coming bands to campus? Organizing the battle of the bands, NAZZ? Coordinating campus bands, and outdoor concerts? Joining the Student Union Board? 
It's your /uclty dttylI I 
SUB is accepting applications for the Campus Entertainment Commission. 
Applications available in 201 LaFortune •••..---..4\ Due November 10th 
:~ \~
. .. • 
.... :1 
~. CIJl ... ITVDENTVNIONIIOA.IID 
banks haS important for 
.....~•.ouu".':J-.1 to''take a proactiVJ} 
'' said Kathy Wyld~, --~·-'-'--• of the New York City Houslmr Partnership, a non· 

··•. ••...••. ·. affordable housing 
"'-~·"'"'·•••:,•~A· .••.:;.t_ ... · group that receives half its funding from Chemical and Chase. 
But others criticized the tim­

···, ing, saying it's aimed at sway· ing public and regulators' opinion of the merger, which must be approved by federal and state banking authorities. 
Criticisms of the banks' poli­cies of serving poor neighbor­hoods could sound groundless in the wake of such a huge 

di!u:~r!itnil\a'te · ...;.commitment, they said. And the· $18.1 billion commitment, which represents 6 percent of t,he merged bank's total assets, is vague and too small for a bank the size of the new Chase. 
The new Chase will lend $13,5 billion to homeowners across the country through its subsidiary banks and national mortgage company. Many of the loans will be made in con­junction with government pro­grams for ''affordable" mort­
gages. 
Parry said the. bank targets borrowers with incomes that are 20 percent below the me­dian in their area, which 
be about $35,000 to .....'''-'"'"'a year in New York. 


U.S. led peace talks open in somber atmosphere 

By. BARRY SCHWEID 
As~tared Press 
DAYTON, Ohio 

Opening peace talks with stiff handshakes, three Balkan pres­idents set out Wednesday on a "long journey" in pursuit of pe(u:e in Bosnia. If they fail, ac­cording to Secretary of State Warren Christopher, Europe could be plunged into a wider war requiring American mili­tary intervention. 
Sitting across a conference table from the leaders of Ser­bia, Croatia and Bosnia. Christopher said "future gen­erations would surely hold us accountable for the conse­quences." 
The aim is a settlement to end a 42-month war that has left tens of thousands of people homeless and sparked atroci­ties unmatched in Europe since Nazi Germany killnd 6 million Jews in World War II. 
In a somber spench, echoed by European mediator Carl Bildt and Hussian Deputy For­nign Ministnr Igor Ivanov, Christopher said Bosnia-llerze­govina was nntilled to be "a country at peacH and not a killing linld." 
"This will be a long journey," he said, "but it all starts here. Let's all get down to work." 
The three Balkan presidents, Slobodan Milosevic of Serbia, Franjo Tudjman of Croatia and Alij a lze tbegovic of Bosnia, made no opening statements. They shook hands at Christo­pher's urging. but did not smile at each other. 
"The world can and will help you make peace," Christopher told them. "But only you can ensure that this process will succeed." 
Shrugging off those who claim the ethnic rivalries are so longstanding and intense peace was unlikely, Christopher point­ed to the Arab-Israeli conflict and those in Northern Ireland and South Africa as proof "negotiations can work when people are determined to make them work." 
The talks, being held at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base near Dayton, then went into closed session. There is no scheduled windup date, and American mediator Richard Holbrooke, who will be in day­to-day charge, has said he would keep at it until there is some success. 
JUST ONE MORE REASON TO COME TO 

~TEAK 

On Notre Dame home football game weekends: 


OUTDOOR PAVILION 
Enjoy refreshments and watch other games on the BIG SCREEN TV while you wait for your table in our lighted pavilion. 

Pavillion Hours: 3:00p.m. to midnight on Fri. and Sat. Steak &Ale Restaurant 2554 US 31 North* South Rend, IN 46637* 219/277-3766 
JAZZMAN's 
NITE CLUB 
• 
525 N. Hill Street 
presents: 

THURSDAY COLLEGE NIGHT 
•With Lady Melo-"D" Spinning Your 
Favorite Hip Hop Music To Dance And Party To 
•Must Be 21 Or Over For Admittance. 
$3.00 Admission With Student ID $5.00 Admission Without Student ID 
Save $1.00 With This Ad Before 11:00 pm 
-
Symbolically, at least. the ne­gotiations were off to a good start. They convened at the Hope Hotel. named after come­dian Bob Hope. 
"If the war in the Balkans is reignited," Christopher said somberly, "it could spark a wider conflict like those that drew American soldiers to Eu­rope in huge numbers twice in this century. And certainly, if it spread, it would jeopardize our efforts to promote peace and stability in Europe." 
He added, "If we succeed, we can make sure that the sons and daughters of Americans will not have to participate in another major war in Europe." 
Entering the conference hall. however, Bosnian Foreign Minister Muhamed Sacirbey said "if it fails it won't fail be­cause of us." He•said European Union and the United States "stood on the sidelines and ob­served" during his country's long period of war and atroci­ties. 
The Clinton administration is confronted with widespread skepticism in Congress about the wisdom of sending up to 25,000 U.S. troops to help en­force a settlement, if there is one. Challenging President Clinton's pledge, the House ap­proved a nonbinding resolution Monday that he should get ap­proval from Congress first and that the negotiations should not be based on the "presumption" there would be U.S. peacekeep­ers. 
Clinton met at the White House with congressional lead­ers Wednesday in hopes of blunting opposition to the use of American troops to enforce any peace settlement. He did not appear to make much head­way. 
House Speaker Newt Gingrich said the administration has not been successful in building sup­port for a U.S. deployment. "In fact, if anything, there is less 

Working toward peace in Bosnia 
w~at they want 
'·''~'"j ~~:~\:~ ?:J:~,k,~nt­
1 • Bosnia-He_rzgovina as an independent nation 

• 
Acentral government in Sarajevo 

• 
The ability to co-federate with Croatia 


=-::= Croatia 

);. • Serb forces must be out of Easterni ·Slavonia by Nov. 30, or fighting may .. resume. 
• The ability to co-federate with Bosnian government-Croatian federation 
~,.......... •. 
Partition plan 

*Bosnian Croats have decided to remain In federation with the Bosnian government. 
support than a month ago," Gingrich said afterward. He said Clinton faces "a very sub­stantial challenge in convincing the American people and con­vincing the Congress that this was a reasonable risk of young Americans' lives." 
According to an NBC News-Wall Street Journal poll released Wednesday. 51 per­cent of Americans oppose hav­ing U.S. grounds troops take part in a Bosnia peacekeeping force. The poll found 41 per­
~ Yugoslavia ~ (Serbia and Montenegro) 
• 
Autonomous region within Bosnia for Bosnian Serbs 

• 
The ability to co-federate with Bosnian Serbs 


Other sticking points 
• 
The Brcko corridor: Bosnian Serbs are demanding the area be widened to about 15 miles. The land is crucial because it links Serb holdings in the east and west. 

• 
Sarajevo: There's a possibility rebel Serbs would have some control in a Sarajevo-based government. 


AP/Wm. J. Castello 

cent supporting Clinton's plan and 8 percent undecided. A similar survey in March found 65 percent opposed, 30 percent in favor and 5 percent undecid­ed. 
Christopher, acknowledging the dissent, said Americans were asking "serious and ap­propriate questions" about American peacekeeping troops going to Bosnia. 
"The United States will not send troops where there is no peace to keep," he said. 

Thursday, November 2, 1995
page 8 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Civil war continues in Sri Lanka, governiDent calls for assistance 
By NIRESH ELlA T AMBY 
Associated Press 
COLOMBO, Sri Lanka 
Government troops advanced to within three miles of the Tamil rebels' stronghold Wednesday, push­ing an offensive that has sent 500,000 civilians fleeing. 
Jaffna, a city of 125,000 where the Tamils have based their 12-year fight for an independent homeland, has almost emptied since the mili­tary launched a campaign two weeks ago to capture it, said a relief worker who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
Authorities said they did not know how many rebel defenders are left in the city. 
Most of the Jaffna 
Peninsula's 675,000 other 
residents have fled their 
homes as government troops, supported by warplanes and artillery, march toward Jaffna, said K. Ponnampalam. the government's chief administrator in the region. 
He warned of a refugee cri­sis and appealed for interna­tional help, including food, tents and chlorine to purify drinking water. Diarrhea and eye diseases already are spreading, he said. 
Ponnampalam said govern­ment bombing near Jaffna has killed 42 civilians. The military said it was unaware of those casualties. 
President Chandrika Ku­
maratunga promised a quick 
end to the war but warned 
that rebels may soon target 
the capital. 
"As we pressure the Libera­
tion Tigers of Tamil Eelam in 
the north, they are likely to strike in Colombo," Mrs. Ku­maratunga said over state radio and television. 
Fearing retaliatory rebel at­tacks, the government has shut the nation's schools until the· end of the year -more than a month ahead of a scheduled December vaca­tion. 
The Defense Ministry said residents harboring Tamil rebels would be imprisoned. Hundreds of extra troops were deployed in and around the Parliament building and the presidential palace. 
Tamil rebels, who accuse Sri Lanka's Sinhalese majori­ty of discrimination, have established a rival govern­ment in Jaffna, including a police force, courts and tax collection agencies. 
More than 37,000 have died 
in the civil war, which began 
in 1983. 
If you see News happening call The Observer at 1-5323. 

ByJAMES ANDERSON 
Associated Press 

PORT-AU-PRINCE 
Haitians are dreaming their way to riches, and it's all thanks to the New York State Lottery. 
Each evening, thousands of Haitians place bets at borlettes. the gaudily painted lottery out­lets found on nearly every block towns and along country roads. 
Each morning, they wake up to find the winning numbers­which are New York's, drawn the night before and beamed into Haiti by television. 
And as likely as not, they picked their numbers in their dreams. 
"Haitians dream about the lottery because they are su­perstitious," said Alain Steide, a vendor at Chez Toto borlette shop on downtown Dessalines Boulevard. 
Most shops offer guides to 
dreams and lottery numbers, a 
"tchala" dictionary in which 
CAMPUS MINISTRY••• •••CONSIDERATIONS 
Getting Beyond the Surface 
A friend of mine told me that he felt like his life had become pretty superficial. He said that he had become aware that he often talks about things that really do not 
matter much to him. Even when he has been with close friends, the conversations tend to be about things like the next football weekend, class assignments, what happened 
last week at The Linebacker, and whether to order a pizza from hall food sales or Papa John's. 
Lately, he has felt the need to talk with friends about matters which are becoming more important to him. 
Questions like "What do I want my life to be all about?" are becoming more important to him. He does not expect clear cut answers, but it would be nice to be able to talk about the questions with somebody. He wonders if he is the only guy who feels this way. 
Perhaps more people feel like him than he thinks. 
A danger in life is never really letting anyone get to know us and never really getting to know anyone else. A danger in life is never letting anyone know about what matters most to us. 
Many people want to talk about what and who is most 
important to them. They want to talk about where they 
see, or do not see, their lives going to. They want to talk 
about where they would like to see their lives go. 
Let me highlight a few ways that people try to become less superficial around here: 
The Notre Dame Freshman Retreat will take place five 
times during the 1995-96 academic year. Ifyou are a first 
year undergraduate student and would like more 
information about this retreat, give us a call at 1-7800 or 
1-5056. 
The Notre Dame Encounter Retreat will also take place 
five times during this year. For more information about 
this retreat give us a call at 631-7800. 

Haitians using Lotto to dream their way to New York's riches 
customers match the subjects of their dreams to correspond­ing numbers. 
"When someone dreams about a TV or a chair, there's a number there for you," Steide said, bringing out his own well­thumbed dictionary. 
Haitians use the New York State Lottery's "Daily Number" and "Pick Four" draws be­cause the televised drawings 
ensure  that  "it's  a  clean  
game," Steide s aid.  
Haiti  used  to  rely  on  

Venezuela's national lottery, until someone discovered that the organizers were ripping off customers by switching num­bers. Television ensures accu­racy in New York's case. 
Borlettes also offer the neigh­boring Dominican Republic's lottery, but that's drawn only on Sunday. Haiti's own bi­weekly national lottery is on hold until the government in­stalls its own electronic draw­ing machine. 


W'eekry meetings and liturgies present people with the opportunity to listen to each other, talk to each other, and pray. The focus is to be the challenge of Christian living. ALL ARE WELCOME TO THESE MEETINGS which take place every Wednesday at.7:30 p.m. in the Stanford-Keenan chapel. 
Communities ND are small groups ofstudents which come together to focus on their lives in light of the Gospel. The members of the group determine the level of conversation. New Communities ND will be formed in January. For more information call Kate Barrett or Darrell Paulsen at 631-5242. 
You may feel that you really do not know what matters 
most to you at this point. Maybe by listening and talking 
to other people you may come to know what really 
J 
matters most to you. 
-Bob Dowd, C.S.C. 

TWENTY-EIGHTH SUNDAY IN ORDINARY TIME 
SATURDAY VIGIL MAssES 
November4  
BASILICA  Rev. Robert Dowd, C.S.C.  
30 min. after game  
STEPAN CENTER  Rev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C.  
45 min. after game  

SUNDAY MAssES AT SACRED HEART BASILICA 
Sun. November 5  8:00 a.m.  Rev. William Miscamble, C.S.C.  
10:00 a:m.  Rev. Peter Rocca, C.S.C.  
11:45 a.m.  Rev. Edward Malloy, C.S.C.  

-

----·-------~-------~-----~~------~~--~------­
VIEWPOINT 

Thursday, November 2, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
John Lucas 
Managmg Editor Business Manager 
Eli..bcth Regan joseph Riley 

N<w~ Editor ................................ David Tyler Advenising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michad O'Hara Ad Design Manager ......................)en Mackowiak Spons Editor............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager ............•..... jacqudinc Moser Accent F.ditor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................Scan Gallavan Saint Mary'• Editor .................... Patti Carson Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independem newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Sainr Mall''s C..ollege. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of cirher tnsrituuon. The news IS repon«< as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­.wnals repr=nt the opm10n of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoont Editor, Accent Editor, Photo F.diror, Sports Editor. and Saint Mary's Editor. { :ornmcntancs. lcners and lnsidc Columns present the views of the authors. and nor necessarily rhose of The Observer. Viewpoim space is available ro all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­
munory and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinoons through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 N<•ws/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day EditorI Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• Goo 'N LIFE 
God in the in-between stage 
"My hair is at that weird. in-between stage." 
It's a common complaint for anyone • male and female -whose hair is not quite at the Michael Jordan or Susan Powter phase, but not close to rump-length, either. It's a time when, unless you spend two hours with the mousse and brush in front of the bath­room mirror, you just don't know what to do with it. · Spiritually, we get into that "in-between stage", too. When our lifestyle changes -going from high school to college, or from sum­mer job to dorm room -how we relate to God also changes and may leave us hanging. 
In these cases, adjustments must be made. Maybe it was cus­tomary to pray in the evening, but now studies and dorm noise interrupt that. Try getting up a half-hour earlier in the morning loh, dread!) for a few quiet moments with God. 
There are tons of 
ways to pray. 
Investigating a few will 
not only help a person 
decide what is "right" 
for him or her, but will
Julie Ferraro 
be an educational expe­
rience. Centering 
Prayer -with numerous 
books on the subject 
written by Basil 

Pennington, OCSO and Thomas Keating, OCSO (Trappist monks) -the Liturgy of the IIours. the rosary, Lectio Divina (a form of Scripture reading), and daily Mass are just some options. 
Excuse me, my Catholic roots are showing. 
Still, Centering Prayer can be done by anyone of any church. So can Lectio. Even the Liturgy of the !lours -a combination of psalms, Seripture readings and prayers -is sometimes called "Christian Prayer", making it accessible not just to Catholics. Those who practice the religions of the East have their own alter­natives to prayer and meditation. 
When we reach that "weird. in-between stage", we must put forth the ell'ort to reorganize our spiritual life, the same way stu­dents sometimes have to reorganize their class schedules. The mason for this is: when we unconsciously know that every day we are going to spend a certain time with God, it eliminates a degree of worry and/or guilt from our lives. It is much the s_ame as hav­ing a standing date each Friday at 7 p.m., or havmg a carrel reserved at the Hesburgh Library. 
As one's schedule is shuffied and shifted, friends and relatives may wonder what's up. A person need not get hostile or overly assertive when oll'ering an explanation. Many people do prefer to keep their spiritual life private, and nothing is wrong with that. The statemtmt. "I'm trying to find a little time for myself," will most ofttm be understood, and it's the truth. Time with God is time for self; the personal benefits are too many to be listed here. 
Aren't we lucky? It may take months for hair to get beyond that "weird, in-between stage", but with God it doesn't have to take that long. . 
.Julie Ferraro is secretary ofthe Freimann Life Science Center. 
I recently came across a short essay I wrote five years ago, when 2 Live Crew was facing legal difficulties due to their obscene lyrics. I didn't know much about the law at age nineteen, but I would still reach the same conclusion today that I reached then: censorship is, for the most part, unconstitutional. This is largely why I have a problem with the newly-announced political campaign to clean up daytime talk shows. 
To the extent that the concern with talk shows focuses on their often undereducated partici­pants, I agree that some reform is necessary. It is blatantly clear to anyone who has ever watched a talk show that the guests who appear on them have rarely con­sidered the potential drawbacks to their appearance on national television. The man who was killed after reveal­ing a "secret crush" on the Jenny Jones show is the most obvious exam­ple of how such appear­ances could backfire, but it is certainly not the only one. People who attempt to reconcile relationships in front of mil­lions and fail cannot feel very good about them­selves afterwards; those who give detailed accounts of personal issues do not realize that they may later wish they kept their private lives private. A team of psychologists has argued that talk-show appearances can jeopardize the emo­tional well-being of their guests, and I cannot see how anyone could disagree. 
However if we are concerned about the well­being of talk show guests, we do not have to silence them to help them. Instead, we should educate them as fully as possible and allow them to make an informed choice whether to speak or not. 
In the views of some -myself included -the First Amendment was not only written to protect political speech, but also as a safeguard for per­sonal expression, which promotes self-fulfill­ment. For some people. coming onto a talk show and discussing their problems may do wonders for their personal growth. Of course. one cannot make an intelligent decision here unless he knows all of the potential consequences -good and bad -of speaking before millions of people about personal issues. But if talk shows were to 
page 9 


Kirsten Dunne 
institute pre-appearance procedures to insure 
that potential guests were informed, this would 
not be a major problem. We may disagree with 
one's decision to discuss a particular topic on 
television; we might even be offended that it is 
being discussed at all. However, if our concern 
focuses on talk show participants and their well­
being, such opinions are simply irrelevant. 
Of course, it is not at all clear that the politi­
cians lobbying for reform are indeed worried 
about talk-show guests. Perhaps they simply 
want to ban from the airwaves ideas which they 
dislike or with which they disagree. They rushed 
to clarify that they are not in 
search of legislation or govern­
mental censorship. But when 
former Education Secretary 
William Bennett -a prominent 
Republican voice on morality 
and "family values" -called the 
talk shows a "pollution of the 
human environment" and a 
"case study of rot," it was clear 
that he simply does not like the 
topics that are discussed on 
today's talk shows. And 
although asking for governmental censorship 
(the campaign primarily seeks self-monitoring by 
talk-show producers), he was asking for censor­
ship. As such, he seeks an end which stands in 
direct conflict with the spirit of the First 
Amendment. 
There is not doubt in my mind that talk shows are in need of reform. But it's certainly not the type sought after by Bennett and his cohorts. Those of us who take the First Amendment seri­ously believe that the remedy for speech we ·believe to be erroneous or harmful is more 
speech, not suppression thereof. 
Bennett and company argue that talk show 
producers must "recognize their responsibility to 
American society," I don't know that talk show 
producers have any "responsibility" to society, . 
but if they do, that responsibility does not consist 
of trampling upon the values embodied in the 
First Amendment. Quite the contrary. For when 
we silence the speaker to protect the listener, we 
not only deny the speaker his right to speak 
freely, we show our disrespect of the autonomy 
and responsibility of the listener as well. 
Kirsten Dunne, ND '92, '95 is working at the firm of Goldberg, Weisman & Cairo, Ltd. in Chicago. 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

• QUOTE OF THE DAY
• 000NESBURY 
"criticism is easy, art is dif­
AfK}UTHOW 

ficult."
P£0PLC.Rf3ACT TOH&R. ... 


-Philippe Destouches 
---~­

_______,_
--------
----~----­
page 10 Thursday, November 2, 1995
ACCENT 

• CoNCERT PREVIEW 
Sky Blues returns to Notre Dame 
sound as, "Edgy music with soulful, By CHRISTIAN STEIN 
wailing guitars ... heavy and passionate." Music Ediror Indeed, Sky Blues is passionate, writ­
ing songs that are based on both intro­ast March a packed Joyce Center spection and past experiences. On the watched rock legend Tom Petty introspective side is "Ring Around The bring the house down with his Moon" -the fourth song on Extended trademark brand of rock. On the same Play which de Sousa says "is about night, across the street, New York City when you have so much going on in your band Sky Blues, backed by drummer life -pain, confusion, loss, whatever it and Notre Dame senior Greg de Sousa may be -that you can't even explain it to packed Senior Bar with close to 800 your best friend, because it's all so con­people for a memorable night of hard fusing and messed up. Some things rock. need to be kept inside; sometimes you 
Tonight, there will be no competition really just don't know what your feelings from Tom Petty as Sky Blues plays. are, or why you're feeling that way." There is little doubt that the mosh pit A more experiential based song is the will return with the energetic life that final original on Extended Play, "Daily has brought acclaim to this young up­Grind." This emotionally tearing song and-coming band. deals with an aspect of life that is quite 
Over the past year, since de Sousa's a familiar sight for these Scarsdale, NY graduation, Sky Blues has been touring boys: the homeless in New York City. the east coast and earning honors In his interview last year with The throughout the music industry. Three Observer. de Sousa predicted that Sky magazines (Rip, Musician, and Blues would definitely make it as a Screamer) named Sky Blues one of the band. So far his prediction seems to be year's hottest new bands and marketing coming true with the constant influx of mogul extraordinaire MTV featured positive feedback that the band has them in an up-and-coming band profile, received over the past year. proving that this is a band to be reck­One major concern that de Sousa oned with in the near future. pilation plus a cover of the Supertramp among others. expressed was that the big record com­
Reflecting on the situation of the band classic "Give A Little Bit" which has In an interview last year, de Sousa panies felt they were too young and last year, a band which faced limited helped Sky Blues reach the level of suc­stressed an optimistic approach to the inexperienced. The opinions of these practice time and sporadic live dates, cess that they are now experiencing. future of Sky Blues with a focus on record companies must be changing the Sky Blues appearing tonight will Starting off in New York City, Sky patience and perseverance. With the every day as Sky Blues takes to the surely be more powerful, more refined, Blues played several gigs at clubs rang­positive reviews of their work still pour­club/college circuit, constantly gaining a 
and much more entertaining as they ing from the smaller 250 capacity ing in, it is clear that there is definitely stronger grasp on what it takes to make (vocalist Mark Ian Keslow, guitar/bass CBGB's to the grandiose 1,200 capacity some merit to what the band believes. it big in the music industry. brothers Jon and Cliff Rubin, and drum­Danceteria/Rocketeria. The tour has Since they were noticed by mega A solid prediction for tonight's show is mer Greg de Sousa) have gained valu­since moved onto a larger national record companies Geffen and Arista a that Sky Blues will once again turn the able experience from constantly being scale, focused on the east coast and the couple years back, they have matured relatively subdued Senior Bar into a on the road. mid-west, where they will be stopping at into a finely tuned machine that churns madhouse of hard rock worshippers 
This tour is in support of their latest schools such as Duke, Maryland, out its own special brand of hard rock. flailing their bodies in musical ecstasy. release Extended Play, a five song com-Michigan, Georgetown. and Notre Dame Rip Magazine described Sky Blues' 
Helping hands 
W
e in the U.S. heard so gratefully have been since "Space Oddity." able to Stereo MC's throw up improve on a number their first offering of things British. They since "Connected" have tea and scones, with the haunting we have beer and "Sweetest Truth." pretzels. They have Groove-heavy without soccer, we have foot­pounding, it's the ball. They have album's finest track. "Absolutely Close behind is Fabulous." we have Orbital's "Adnan," "Beavis and which features a Butthead." soundbite from the 
Not all things, how­recording day's news­ever, have been cast running through improved on their trip an echoing sound­
Small across the Atlantic. scape. The Beatles brought On a twenty-track impeccable pop album, of course, melodies, and we there will be a few 
Alias Records answered with folk. bombs, and they're all They gave us Led found among the cov­Zeppelin, we gave ers. Granted. Sinead them Billy Squier. O'Connor's version of
A ~~~e;,r~~~~~~:a::~~~;:t~!rolina q~::r~et returrts 

J-l.~ith its original name· and still original so History repeats, and "Ode to Billy Joe" 
even today. the best Help blows the original offalthough their name is Small, .their sopnd music available comes the stage, but why
forefront of melodic, ipdje Go! Discs

air mail from the would anyone cover
verse/refrain lyri~ form. '\'IIU.+.cn.ortHlllSettt·..-e:Qm.pteil) tars play ·over~>.•r.·r,.•1iat,nnt mother country. "Raindrops are 
Help, a compilation· Falling On My Head?"
lines. The technicality of 
out of five 

to raise funds for the **** That song was lousyhidden beneath absurd lyrics, • 
children affected by the Bosnian civil war; fea­when written. 
Their dynamic music and a.t~ce!iSil>Je 

tures twenty of the UK's finest artists doing new The same is true for "Dream a Little Dream."
underrated pop hand likf! .. .. .... . .. . ............... . 

Chisel. .....-. •·• ;;:·• tracks, covers, and revisions of their own stuff, Terry Hall and Salad are the second British
· · · 

and it's stellar almost all around. It becomes group to cover it this year, and that's a hanging
This follow-up to 1993's true zero hook ,·....·--~·~A 

truly amazing when you consider that this album offense. They consistently outdo America musi­and is technically more advanced than was recorded all around England and surround­cally, and then you get something like this ... 
T·shirts for Spain EP. It seems that this 

ing areas in one day (Sept. 4-look it up), and inexcusable.
better and better. In the past. Small u~,;t;l!l')_l,vf••:Juy 

was produced and on the shelves by Sept. 9. The good far outweighs the bad. though, andproblem of sc:mgs sounding the The Stone Roses, for example, re-recorded Help comes in as one of the best compilations in employing diverse time signatures "Love Spreads" at dawn before heading to Japan. a while. It raised $3 million dollars before itsreally developed musically. Before. 
Neneh Cherry's track "1, 2, 3, 4, 5" just made the U.S. release, which eerily coincides with theas the plague, now they are still aa£nct.1Ve, 
recording deadline, surviving a hairy journey threat of U.S. involvement in Bosnia's war.
dimension of musicianship that was from Spain. "Fade Away," a collaboration The irony lies in the parallels of life and art. between Oasis and Johnny Depp (yes, the Johnny Only one song on Help deals directly with this

Tune in at today to the (Jb$erver 

Depp) was on the radio by 3:30 p.m. the day it conflict, .something with which the U.S. can
WW"l 640 AM~ (lnd express you,r opinion, 

was recorded. empathize. The tone of the album is not revolu­
All in all, it's an amazing effort, and for a tion, but despair at the state of things; when great cause. The new tracks on Help are, for the thinking of Bosnia, that's something everybody most part, brilliant. Radiohead's "Lucky" is all can understand. majestic tragedy, featuring a Mellotron sound not -by Kevin Dolan 

Various Artists 
ACCENT ­
Thursday, November 2, 1995 page 11 
Belle of the Wreelling Ball WM~ T~;­

I
f you only buy one Johnson, Mullen Jr. album this year provides Lanais and make sure that it is Harris with a base on Emmylou Harris' which to weave their Wrecking Ball: Daniel delicate harmonies and Lanois gives Harris' swirling counterpoint. ethereal soprano the Nowhere is this better same breathtaking exemplified than on treatment he gave U2 their take of Hendrix's on The Joshua Tree, "Waterfall"; drums and Peter Gabriel on So and guitar cascade over a Bob Dylan on Oh Mercy. still and perfect Lanois 
From the opening and Harris duet. l.anois-penned "Where Somewhere between will I Be," Wrecking Appalachia and Ireland, Ball's soundscape is at between New Orleans once as broad as the and Quebec, a musical Great Plains and as inti-meeting has occurred mate as a family gath-that defies simple de­ering. scription and gives the 
Echoes of l.anois's lie to the oft-expressed stunning dnbut Acadie thesis that popular and Neil Young's mas-music lacks the capacity terfull/ar/Jesl Moon are to capture transcen­unrnistakable. Young dence in the concrete. hims11lf joins Harris for In many ways this a powerfully haunting seems to be a Lanois cover of his "Wrecking Emmylou Harris album as much as it is Ball" (one of the nine Wrecking Ball an Emmylou Harris 
covers on the album) album. Is it a country and together with Daryl Elektra Entertainment album? The question is Johnson's high harmo-+++++ of interest only to the 
ny. his vocals perfectly ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ marketing folk. complement those of out of five Perhaps Emmylou
Emmylou. 
Other stand-out tracks on the album. which lacks a routine track, is a spooky yet jubilant version of Julie Miller's gospel number "All my Tears" and a heartbreakingly wistful cover of Anna McGarrigle's "Goin' back to Harlan." 
The tension between faith and doubt expressed in Dylan's "Every Grain of Sand" is perfectly mirrored in llarris' versions of the song. Her fragile voice would impllril the stability of the song were it not for Larry Mullen Jr.'s (U2) looping beat holding things together. Together with Tony Hall (Neville Brothers) and Daryl 
herself expresses the 
atmosphere of the album best: "It was like everyone was floating. We were in a big room ... like we were in rehearsal. We could see everybody and hear everybody. We had candles going and little lamps put around. It was a lot of fun, a lot of laughs and the music was just very inspiring." Emmylou's word regarding the fun and laughter is believable, but that Wrecking Ball is inspi­rational is readily ascertainable. 
-by Tim Bayne 
EBN's Sound and Vision 

W
elcome to the disinformation age. This is the message that l'rovidrmee, HI, techno­wizards. Emergency Broadcast Network IEBNI are trying to get across. With ~he release of their new CD-HOM, Telecommunication llreakdown. these guys. armed with only a few VCHs, computers, and syntiHlsizers, show what thn next century in multimedia en­tllrtainrnent will bring. It's a somewhat fright­Ill! in g wort d they've paintnd. 
It would be impossi­hlll to enumflrate the dozens of sound and video clips that com­prise this disc, which featums very little real singing (or rapping). but is comprised mostly of well-placed sound bites strung together over !lither furious tnehno or lazy semi­psychedelic beats. 
In terms of musical then dispersed to a cheerfully ignorant pop­ulace. 
Technophobes need not apply-this is seri­ous computer fun, but it is easily installed and appreciated by even the least experienced elec­tronic neophyte. 
In addition to the usual repetition of user­manipulated video clips which accompany each of the 20 tracks on 
Tel ecomm un i cation Breakdown. there are several surprises EBN provides. First and fore­most, there are three complete videos a vail­able for consumption, and they accompany some of the better tracks on the album. 
"Electronic Behavior ·Control System" lives up Emergency Broadcast Network to its moniker, and its darkly humorous mes­
Telecommunication Breakdown 
sage is appreciated a 
TVT Records hundred fold once the video is seen. "3:7:8" features a hot
***~ 
Latin/African fusion
out of five 

merit alone this release features very little that has be1m attnmpted before (i.e., Ministry's "N.W.O.") and it tends to drag at times on the slower tracks. Basieally, unless a rave is going on. it's not going to get much play, unless it's for the wonderful rapping by guest Mellie Mel on "Shoot the Mac-1 0." 
The real prize lies on the disc lies in the video grooves etehed on the underside. With any decent CD-playing computer (Mac or Windows). this disc becomes a brilliant satire of the recently-entered "Information Age," replete with attacks on this coun­try's movie, news, and music industries, and especial­ly harsh barbs for the new opiate of the masses. 
By stringing together clips from CNN. trash TV, and everybody's favorite infomereials, and placing them in fascinating arrangements that accompany the beats and sound bites, the CD allows the user to enjoy the irony of it all. With today's technology the "all" is how easily misinformation can be assembled and 
backbeat, with accom­panying dance and "live" music scenes. 
Another of the bonuses (they shouldn't all be revealed, should they?) is the inclusion of wonderful biographical and technical information with ac­companying visuals at the "start" of the disc. Liner notes, merchandise ordering information. and footage of a golf bag launcher are all available at the click of a mouse button. 
All in all, the disc provides a brilliant introduction to the future of electronic music-video and audio joined together for one low price (and without MTV). Unfortunately, without the video, the music seems a little shallow and uninventive. However·, the accom­panying video clips and their manipulation can pro­vide hours of entertainment for those comfortable with their computers and the message of broken telecommunication. 
-by Dominic DeVito 


1. 
Smashing Pumpkins-Mellon Collie and the Infinift Sadness 

2. 
Alanis Morissette-Jagged Little Pill 

3. 
Bjork-Post 

4. 
Better than Ezra-Deluxe 

5. 
Charlatans UK-Charlatans UK 

6. 
Echobelly-On 

7. 
Cowboy Junkies-200 more Miles ij 

8. 
People who Must-The Road you travel' 

9. 
Presidents of the Unite.f) States­


•Presidents of the United States 
10. 
Teenage Fanclub-Grand Prix 

11. 
Jesus and Mary Chain-I hate Rock n'Roll )~ . 


12. Archers of Loaf-Jfarn~sfied in Slurp~ 

13. 
Garbage-Garba8 :..~{:";!~;· · _'.; 

14. 
Green Day-lnsofuniac :: 


;~·::';~

15. Spacehog-Resident All~n 
~ '--~~ 

p~~ple aq:~'t nic~ _,;,; is G'~tj~·-. ~f''_:' _: ·. a . 
's Nocturne Ni/H(flight pla/s,the'·; CC!I:teJ,re alternative music e~lfj ~fgh( ' ~2a.m. on 88.9 FM. 
• 
__.....ks Top ·ao 
1. 
Smashing Pumpkins-Mellon Collie and the Infinite Sadness 

2. 
Ozzy Osbourne-Ozzmosis 

3. 
Toad the Wet Sprocket-In Light Syrup 

4. 
Indigo Girls-12:00 Curfew 



-
5. Alanis Morissette-Jagged Little Pill 
6. Green Day-Insomni~c 
7. 
John Hiatt-Walk On 

8. 
Bush-Sixteen Stone 


;. 

9. 
Bob Seger-It's a Mystery 

10. 
AC/DC-Ballbreaker 

11. 
Steely Dan-Alive in America 

12. 
Dave Matthews ,the Table and D~aming 

13. 
Natalie Merchaq,t-'Qgerlily · 

14. 
Rusted Root-W~n IWoke . 



-


·--~----~ 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, November 2, 1995 
-


Grizzlies prepare to launch inaugural season 
Associated Press 
VANCOUVER 
The Vancouver Grizzlies' recipe for success as a pro bas­ketball team will require lots of time and patience. No one knows that better than coach Brian Winters. 
Since 1960, the average record for an NBA expansion team was 24-58. For Vancouver, playing in the tough Midwest Conference, just get­ting to that level would be an accomplishment. 
"I realized before I ever took the job that it wasn't going to be easy," Winters said. "I don't feel sorry for myself, and I'm not going to let our players feel sorry for themselves." 
The expansion Grizzlies lost their first seven preseason games before beating Seattle in the final tuneup for the regular season. The Grizzlies open the reg.ular season Friday in Portland, Ore., before returning home to their gleaming new GM Place to play Minnesota on Sunday. 
This team will need staunch support in the 20,000-seat downtown arena, because scor­ing and wins will be hard to come by. 
In Sunday's exhibition victory over Seattle, players were glad to get the crowd's backing. 
"Because they were behind us so much, they pushed us over the edge," said guard Blue Edwards. "They can be a dif­ference." 
To win during the regular season, the Grizzlies will rely on defense and the shooting of veteran guards Byron Scott and Edwards. 
"In the long run, our strength will have to come from the inside," Winters said. "We'll need to rebound and get it back to the guards for outside shots." 
Winters likely will start Benoit Benjamin at center, Kenny Gattison at power for­ward, Chris King at small for­ward, Edwards at shooting guard and Greg Anthony at the point. Reserves include Scott, forward Antonio Harvey, center Bryant Reeves and guards Lawrence Moten and Gerald Wilkins. 
To shore up the front line, the Grizzlies acquiring forward Anthony Avent from the Orlando Magic on Wednesday in exchange for guard Kevin Pritchard and forward Larry Stewart. 
Avent, 26, a 6-foot-9, 235­pound power forward, appeared in 71 games for the Magic last season. He averaged 
3.6 points and 4.1 rebounds last year, his third in the NBA. 
Vancouver's obvious weak­ness is roster depth, which is no surprise for an expansion team. But an unpleasant sur­prise has been at center, which the Grizzlies figured they had covered by drafting Reeves sixth overall. 

Reeves was a disappointment in the preseason, leaving Benjamin as the starter by default. 
Benjamin's track record is inconsistent. His play is punctu­ated by moments of brilliance and long periods of ineffective­ness marred by poor shot selec­tion. He averaged 11.1 points and 5.3 rebounds last year with New Jersey, but missed 21 games with injuries. 
Reeves enters the league with a soft body and must harden his 290 pounds in order to push and shove with the tough inside players of the NBA. ' ''I'm hoping our rebounding gets better as we go along," Winters said. "Big guys like Reeves in general take about three years to become good players. 
"They turned on Rik Smits at Indiana, and now they love the guy. It took him four or five years to become a good play­er." 
Winters and team president Stu Jackson are prepared to be patient with their team and won't be pushed into trying to keep pace with the Toronto Raptors, Canada's other expan­sion franchise. 
"I don't worry about the Toronto situation," Winters said. "We base our develop­ment on young players like Reeves and Lawrence Moten taking the franchise in a posi­tive direction over a number of years." 
Jackson said personnel deci­sions will always be aimed at the future, not to bolster the number of wins in the first sea­son. 
"This is the right course," he said. "We will, as best we can, stick to it." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

TRAVEL ABROAD AND WORK­ NO Ski Team T-Shirtsl  HELP I NEED  I NEED NAVY GAs!  1-80 is damn boringlll!-which is  
NOTICES  Make up to $25-45/hr_ teaching basic conversational English in  ******************.................. -............. . Really cool and only $101  NAVY TIXII X0979  If you have two. call Kathy at x3572  why I'd like some company when I drive home "to Fairfield County  
Japan, Taiwan, or S. Korea. No  Call Potter@ 232-2955todaylll  Need 1 Navy Stud. Tik.  Connecticut for Xmas ___ . if you're  
"To thine own self be true..-"  teaching background or Asian lan­ Great for you, your roomie, or  -Matt 273-8709  Help Melli  interested and can drive stick call  
Indulge, and buy a ticket to the  guages required. For information  Christmas presents!  I need 2 Navy GA's  Dave at4-1216 or 1-5323.  
National Shakespeare Company's  call: (206)632-1146 ext. J55841  I need 3 NAVY tixll!  WILL PAY BIG  
HAMLET-Nov.3, 8 pm.  WA Hall  Elect guitar perfect cond $225 obo  Please  Jen 273-6162  IJ@Live Theatre, It won't kill you@ll  
Sponsored by SUB.  nx @ LaFun  ALASKA EMPLOYMENT ­ amp free 273-5380  Call Paul x3006  Come and see  
Info desklll  Students Needed! Fishing Industry.  I need 2 Navy GAslll  "For Emily"  
Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per  88 Toyota Tercel,68k, air,exl con.  Nd 2 tickets to Navy game. Call  Call Mandy at x4092.  Most importantly  
Parents.. .looking for a way out of  month. Room and Board!  $3000firm.  Dan at 3549.  It's free.  
that tuition drain?  Get Smart!  Transporation! Male or Female. No  277-3503  Need 1 ticket for Navy. Call Jay at  Prime Location (300 Washington  
- Spring Break Bahamas Party  experience necessary. Call (206)545-4155 extA55842  •••••••••••2 MONET••••••••••••  4 CHEAP NAVY GA's Call Anytime 4-0596  1787.  Hall (aka Lab Theatre]) Time: 8 p.m.  
Cruise! Early Specials! 7 Days  ••••••••riCKETS for SALE•••••  Ask for Will or JJ  Date: 11/2 and 11/31!1  
$27911ncludes 15 Meals & 6  NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ no need to wait in the long line with  We feel after seeing the show you  
Parties! Great Beaches/Nightlife!  Seasonal & full-time employment  these exclusive "member tickets."  HELPIIIII I NEED 2 NAVY TIX!IIl!  will come to the same conclusion:  
Prices Increase 11/21 & 12/15!  available at National Parks, Forests  Tickets good on any one day.  Call  My last home game at ND!!!!I!  Need Navy GA's.  We kill more people by 9 p.m.  
Spring Break Travel1-800-678­ & Wildlife Preserves. Benefits +  soon with an offer. the Chicago  Call Patrick @ 234-3468  Call Joe at4-1846.  than most people kill all day.  
6386  bonuses! Call: 1-206-545-4804 ext.  Monet exhibition ends November  LIVE THEATRE, IT WON'T KILL  
N55842  26th. Gretchen@ 284-5166  I need NAVY tickets badly! Please  U!l  
Spring Break! Panama City! Early  call JOE 273-3981  
Specials! 8 Days Oceanview Room  Tickets for MONET exhibit  100 Watt Fisher stereo system,  HELP! Need 2 Navy GAs.  
With Kitchen $1291 Walk To Best  for Nov. 3 or Nov. 5. Please  Radio Shack Mach 1 speakers call  2 sets of 2 Navy GA's for sale  leave message for Pat @  
Bars! Key West $2591 Cocoa  call Brad at 634-5118. Negotiable.  Mary after 5 for details, 272-4137  Call Mark @x3369  273-0391  ELSIE'S PROMISE  
Beach Hilton $1691 Prices Increase  Sat. Nov 4 Jazzman's  
11/21 & 12/1511-800-678-6386  Seeking RIDER(S) to FLORIDA Dec 14 return Jan 13.  TICKETS  For Sale: 1 Navy stud tix  I have 2 Navy GA's for sale call Scot at x2011  Wed. Nov 8 Bridget's  
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break  Call Dyan 4-0979  chris 287-8648  
Specials! 111% Lowest Price  A DEVOTED IRISH FAN NEEDS  GET 'EM WHILE YOU CAN II  Calif. actress-writer wife & photog­ 
Guarantee! 7 Nights Air From  BASKETBALL COACH responsible  GA'S TO ANY/ALL  SALE  3 NAVY GA'S FOR SALE  rapher husband wish to '!Oopt new­ 
South Bend & Hotel From $4191  , dependable, student/grad to  HOME/AWAY GAMES_  4 50 yd In TIX  BEST OFFER, NANCY x2456  born. Will provide love, nurturing  
Book Early! Save $100 On  coach 5th-6th grade basketball  219-232-0061,24 HAS.  for NAVY  environ., educ., financial security.  
Food/Drinks! Spring Break Travel  team Nov-Feb for south side ele­ 2718154  I need 1 navy tickect. GA or  Hollywood Hills.home has large  
1-800-678-6386  mentary school, located near  student. Call Chris. X1741  back yard and loving dog. Call  
Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street.  TICKET-MART, INC.  For Sale: 2 Navy GA's. 273-9838  81 8/241-5535 collect. Legal &  
WEEKLY-MIDWAY TAVERN  Must be available for practice Mon­ WANTED  ConfidentiaL  
810W4TH MISH.  Thurs from 1 :30-2:30. Game sched­ GA'S FOR ANY/ALL  I NEED 2 NAVY GA'S  PLEASE HELP ME! MY FAMILY'S  
MON THE JAZ2 FIRM 7:30-9:30  ule varies with games beginning  HOME/AWAY NO GAMES.  Call Ryan #1239 -PLEASE  COMING FROM TEXAS. I NEED 3  
WED OPEN JAM 9 PM  after school at 4:00, 5:00, ·or  BUY.SELL•TRADE  NAVY GA's. CALL DAVE AT 0876.  
THURS IRISH MUSIC 9  6:00pm. Paid position. Call291­ (219) 232-0058-24 HAS.  NEEDED: 2 Navy std tix. Call  ADOPTION ... INTERESTED IN  
2BLKS S. OF 1 00 CTR  4200 or 291-8731to apply.  Jason at x-0805  2 Navy Vietnam Era Vets need tick­ HEARING MORE??  
255-0458 NEED 10  I NEED TIXS TO ALL HOME  ets for NO-Navy.  Warm, professional Indiana couple,  
WEEKLY MIDWAY TAVERN  FOR RENT  GAMES.272-6306  Navy GA's For Sale Call Barth 273-6048  Go Irish!!! Call collect 515-842-5750.  lots of experience with children, would love to talk to you about what  
810W4TH MISH_  Me  nEad TiKits  we can offer your precious child.  
MON THE JAZ2 FIRM 7:30-9:30  HOMES FOR RENT NEAR NO  2 Navy  I NEED GA'S MEGAN X3890  GUllTV-No tix. Prom1sed the  Stability, nurturing, love of learning,  
WED OPEN MIKE/JAM 9:00  232-2595  Call Sean x2153  "Old Man" I would take him to one  travel, lots of extended family, and  
THURS IRISH MUSIC 9  FOR SALE N.D. G As  last game at the house that Rock  full-time mom are just some of the  
2BLKS ROF 100 CTR  THAT PRETTY PLACE. Bed and  call271-9412  Built. NEED TWO FOR NAVY. Will  things that your child would experi­ 
255-0458 NEED 10  Breakfast Inn has space available  NEED NAVY TIXI  pay fair cost & reimburse for call.  ence in our home. Interested in  
for football wknds. 5 rooms with pri­ AMY 616-473-2636  I NEED USC, BC & NAVY  Call (812)739-4408. Leave mes­ hearing more? CALL US (day or  
Wanted II  vate baths. Located in Middlebury,  GA'S.272-6306  sage if no answer.  night). Expenses paid. Theresa &  
Individuals, Student Organizations  30 miles from campus. 1-800-41 8­ Lee 1-800-600-8482­ 
to Promote  9487  Need Navy tix. 282-1638  I NEED 2 NAVY TICKETS! I  
SPRING BREAK Earn MONEY and  Call JILL x2272  I NEED NAVY GA's CALL  
FREE TRIPS  3 BEDROOM HOME 5 MINUTE  MIKE@ 2075  $5.50 HAIRCUT  
CALL INTER-CAMPUS PRO­ WALK TO NO GOOD AREA  Need two Navy Tickets  I need one Navy GA for Mom.  VITO'S BARBER SHOP  
GRAMS  2773097  Call Lara at x4416  Please help. Call Alex -1969  1525 LINCOLNWAY WEST  
http://www.icpt.com  233-4767  
1-800-327-6013  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE  NEED 2 Navy GA'sll  NEED 2 GA'S FOR NAVYIII  2 NAVY TIXS FOR SALE.235-3394  
ILOST & FOUND I  HOME FOR ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  call Martha at X4092 1 NAVY NEEDED. BRIAN x1716.  CALL CHRIS X-1953 NAVY TIX NEEDED  NEED Navy GA'slll Call Greg  SMC Senior Class Dinner At Bruno's! Thursday, November 2 5:0Q-7:00 PM All the pizza and  
CALL 272-6194 AM OR 232-9620  CALLx0733  at287-0578  pop that you can handle  
FOUND: LLBean Grey Fleece Vest  PM  I Need Navy Tickets!  $5 tickets on sale in the dining hall  
near Stepan Center. Call Dave @ 634-4245  & ASK FOR SANDY- It is very Important that I get them!  NEED 1 NAVY TIC. CALLX3832  PERSONAL  during dinner all week.  
Need 1 roommate now & 1 more  Please call ASAP.  
Please, Please, if you found my  next sem. $195 Turtle Creek 273­ Kelly@ 2604  $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $  000 THE COPY SHOP  000  ###########################  
little green NO folder wallet, call  2366  Need  NAVY TIXs  LaFortune Student Center  THETIMEHASCOMETOFUNK  
Darcy Yaley at X4949_  It's got  Need Navy GAs  Eric  233-4435  call x1755  (Craig)  We're open for your conveniencelll  REVEREND FUNK  
all my necessary 10/Key thingsll!ll  Two bedroomed apartment for rent.  $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $  Mon-Thur: 7:30am -Midnight  »  KEENAN BASEMENT «  
Please, Please, Please!  1.2 miles from Hesburgh Library.  I HAVE NAVY STUD TIX 4 SALE  Fri.: 7:30am-7:00pm  FRL NIGHT 9-12  
Very safe area_ Possibility of keep­ 1-6696  Sat.: Noon -6:00pm  $NO COVER$  
••••• LOST ••••  ing horse or pet. 631-5118 or 277­ Sun.: Noon -Midnight  YOU'Ll DANCE SO HARD YOUR  
SMALL GOLD HOOP  5828.  S.O-S.! NEED LOTS 0 NAVY  I NEED NAVY Tickets badly.  (closed home football Saturdays)  CLOTHES'LL FALL OFF  
EARRING CALL3709  I  FORSALE  TICKETS_ KAT X2322 NEED NAVY TIX FOR BROTHER  Both GA's and Student... Please leave a message on my machine ....  0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0  ###########################  
WANTED I For Sale: Futon (couch/bed) L-----------....1. •••perfect for dorm room•••  AND SISTER. KEITH 3482  287-8696 -Bryan  QUALITY COPIES, QUICKLY!!! THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center  Chin -I prefer ... Happy 1 year!!! Think BLACK!! I Ill  
need roomate 4 2ndsem.call 273­ In great condition Ill  $75  NEED 2 NAVY GA'S  Phone 631-COPY  Love, Sha  
4569monique  Call Bob at 273-4212  CALL TAD 273-8629  0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0  


-
.Nt!A 
Blazers eye return to respectability 
Magic face life without Shaq 
By FRED GOODALL  long," said Dennis Scott,  control the defense, and with  
Associared Press  O'Neal's best friend on the  the other offensive players we  
team.  have, we can still go out and  
ORLANDO, Fla.  "He's been a quick healer,  win a lot of games and try to  
Shaqless, yet still conlident.  and hopefully that'll be the case  hold the fort down until he gets  
That's how the Orlando Magic  again."  back."  
will begin its quest for a return  Regardless, the Magic has to  Hill's biggest concern is get­ 
to the NBA Finals, where the  find a way to stay afloat while  ting off to a good enough start  
Houston Rockets humbled the  the 7 -foot-1, 320-pound center  that the Magic doesn't fall too  
defending Eastern Conference  is out, replaced by offseason  far behind in the race for home­ 
champions in four games last  acquisition Jon Koncak, who's  court advantage in the playoffs.  
June.  averaged just 4.6 points per  The team, 39-2 at home last  
"This is a test of character for  game in 10 pro seasons.  season, plays 10 of 15 games at  
all of us." All-Star point guard  Orlando Arena in November.  
Anfernee Hardaway said, ad­ Orlando won a franchise­ "This part of the season could  
dressing the lingering question  record 57 games and claimed  dictate a lot of things, so we  
of how the team will react to  its first Atlantic Division title  can't go out and feel sorry for  
starting the season Friday night  with O'Neal (29.3 points per  ourselves because we don't  
and playing up to two months  game) and Hardaway (20. 9)  have our All-Star center," Scott  
without fellow All-Star and  combining for the league's  said.  
reigning league scoring cham­ highest scoring average for two  "The word consistency is go­ 
pion Shaquille O'Neal.  teammates last season.  ing to play a big part in every­ 
"If somebody wants to step  Coach Brian Hill will try to  body's game. If guys don't come  
up and prove he's worthy of  compensate for the loss of  to practice and work and get  
stardom or superstardom, now  O'Neal's scoring by creating  ready to play, there could be a  
is his opportunity."  more post-up opportunities for  lot of long nights."  
O'Neal is expected to be side­ Hardaway and Nick Anderson.  Hill is confident his young  
lined six to eight weeks with a  Koncak's biggest contribution  players, with veteran leader­ 
fractured right thumb. If he re­ will be on defense.  ship provided by Horace Grant  
turns-as he has said he'd like  "Obviously there's a huge  and Brian Shaw, will hold their  
to -for a Christmas night re­ dropoff offensively between  own until O'Neal returns. The  
match against the Rockets, he'll  Shaquille and myself," Koncak,  coach said the prospect the club  
miss 27 games.  who's never averaged more  might become complacent was  
"Knowing him, he probably  than 8 points in a season, said.  not a concern. even before  
won't let himself stay out that  "But they brought me here to  O'Neal's injury.  

Mavs hope to reach next level 
By DENNE FREEMAN and Popeye Jones. teams that have dominating Associared Press The win total would have centers," said Motta, whose been higher save for Jackson's Mavericks open the season DALLAS season-ending ankle injury on Friday against San Antonio and The Mavericks no longer are Feb. 24. the ever-dominant David 
the NBA's door scrape. Before his injury, Jackson Robinson. 
Dallas won 36 times last sea­was having an outstanding Williams averaged eight re­son and improved 23 games year, averaging 25.7 points per bounds per game but needs over the 1993-94 season, the game to rank fifth in the NBA in help. Jones led the league in of­biggest one-year turnaround in scoring. fensive rebounds with 329 but club history. Motta. in his 24th year as an was ninth in overall rebounding 
Coach Di.~k Motta sprang the NBA coach, really likes his with 10.6. surprise on the rest of the team, but not enough to fore­Motta isn't counting on any league by relying on a youthful cast the playoffs. help from (loy Tarpley, who an and talented lineup that in­"Our division is very good inflamed pancreas and may cluded the likes of Jim Jackson, and we still have a young team open the season on the injured Jamal Mashburn. Jason Kidd with a lot to learn," Motta said. list or suspended. 
"We still need to be more Tarpley, once considered one 

dominating on the board. Any of the league's best rebounders, R E S E R V E OFFICERS' TRAINING playoff talk would be prema­averaged eight rebounds per
CORPS 

ture. We have to see what we game last season. can put together." Mashburn finished the season 
The Mavericks have Lorenzo ranked fifth in scoring with Williams, Jones and rookie 24.1 points per game. Loren Meyer of Iowa State, one Top draft pick Cherokee of two first round draft picks, Parks of Duke is expected to for help in the middle. aut big give the Mavericks some small teams gave the Mavs fits last forward help off the bench. He year and will be a problem and Meyer showed talented again. flashes during the Mavs' 2-6 
"We still have problems with preseason. 

ast chance prepare for 
­eDecember test 
1-800-KAP·TEST Last class begins on: get ahigher score Thursday, November 2 
KAPLAN 
Your Uncle Sam. Every year Army fees. They even pay a flat rate for text­ROTC awards scholarships to hundreds books and supplies. You can also receive Two classes 
of talented students. If you qualify, 
an allowance of up to $1500 each great scores••• already full.these ment-based scholarships can school year the scholarship is in 
Enroll Today!
help you pay tuition and educational effect. Find out today if you qualify 

............ 
I 
t
ARMY ROTC: 

Call: 1·80Q..KAP·TEST TIE SMARTEST COWGE COURSE YOU CAN THE. get • higher score 
For details, visit 216 Pasquerilla Center or call 
631-6986 


KAPLAN 
~I 
Kaplan helps you focus your MCAT studies and build your confidence, so you can get a higher score. 

By BOB BAUM i\Mociared Press 
PORTLAND, Ore. 

The days of the powerful Portland Trail Blazers are long past. Around the league, the most impressive thing about this team is its new arena. 
Otherwise, it's Rod Strickland, Clifford llobinson, Lithuanian giant Arvydas Sabonis and not a whole lot more. Still, second-year coach 
P.J. Carlesimo insists Uw Blazers are not destined for the lottery scrap heap, as many predict. 
"I don't care what anybody elsfl thinks. It doesn't matter," he said. "I think we're a very good team." 
Hebuilding is the wrong word for what the Blazers are trying to accomplish, Carlesimo said. 
"I think it's less a rebuilding than it is a transition," he said. "I just think we've got some different faces. I think when you go back to square one, or close to that, that's rebuilding." 
Strickland, who clashed with Carlesimo last year but says he's willing to work with the coaeh lhis season, has a hard time believing the Blazers will linish below the likes of Sacra­mento and Denver. 
"It's disappointing to see us next-to-last in our division," Strickland said. "I think we're better than that for sure. But I think they feel that all the guys who were on the champi­onship contending team are gone, so they've kind of writ­ten us off. 
"I don't think me and Cliff get any amount of respect. so they don't think we have any­thing." 
Carlesimo wants the Blazers to run more and shoot better from long-range this year. The results in the preseason were mixed. 
"I liked the early returns on our running game,'' he said. "But the 3-point shooting was a disaster." 
Injuries have been an obsta­cle throughout the preseason. 
Going into Friday's opener against Vancouver, Buck Williams, Aaron McKie, Bill Curley and James Robinson all are either out or questionable because of injuries. 
The Blazers haven't missed the playoffs since 1982, and Strickland believes there is a togetherness to this team that was missing last season, when the team finished 44-38 and was swept by Phoenix in the first round. 
"The way we're playing I like better than anything, for­get who we have here," Strickland said. ''We're mov· ing the ball well. We're play­ing well with each other, and I think that was a problem in the past couple of years or so. I don't think we played togeth­er and we underachieved. I think this group has the poten· tial to overachieve and sur­prise some people." 
Despite his well-publicized run-ins with Carlesimo. Strick· land had his best season in 1994-95, averaging 18.9 points and 8.8 assists per game. 
He has been the subject of persistent trade rumors, but he was still a Blazer as the season approached, and the team would have a hard time finding a replacement to run things on the court. 
--------~ ---~--~--------··-~--------~--------­


...--------­
page 14 

-
Pacers.kl 
7" 
for 
dle for at least the 
weeks. ·+ ,w;;i:we~r6'riot gofu.g to·· lose because of you,•• _. . . . said he told Schintzius. signed two weeks ago as a _ Rlk Smith. 
"I just want you to best you can ancl, reboundhig and We'll all do the rest." 
When the 1995·96 NBAsea~ son opens on Friday nig:h,t; the 7:foot~2 Schintzius ...._who has a career average of 2.8 points a game ~ will be in Indiana's starting lineup at Atlanta. That's because Smits is out about three weeks because. of a bone spur in his left leg~ 
"It's a blessing for him; and it's a blessing for our team in the long range, because n()w other guys have to step up." Brown said. 
After .reaching the seventh. game of the Eastern Confer~ enee finals for the second straight year last season, the 
Pacers• core is ba.ek·again this ,ii;;1P#nk•. · season on a team that won its ·· in the rrrst NBA division title and set a franchise record w~tli 52 
wins. · · · · · ••••.rnnl~h~·•-a.,,·,.l'.tc: But Smits' absence leave a temporaryvoid. 

-
rnriscle . ago. . Indiana's bench, however, ha~ chan-ged significantly>. 
The Pacers lost reserves Vern Fleming, LaSalle Thompson, SamMitcqeU. and Byron Scott, but they drafted point guard Travis Best and signed veterans .-· Eddie Johnson and Ricky Pierce. 
· ''It might cause us to start slow, I don't know, ~che~JJ!~ vvas ~()qgh t._..._... ha.trlh W:ith,tr Brown saHl -­makeshift lineup. ''If look at the "'"'"'u""'"' other 
asked to do 

The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, November 2, 1995 
Warriors receive shot in arm 
By ROB GLOSTER 
Associated Press 
OAKLAND, Calif. 
Tim Hardaway pushed the ball past midcourt and passed to Latrell Sprewell. who fired to Chris Mullin on the baseline. Mullin kicked the ball out to Joe Smith for an open 7-foot jumper. 
OK, so Smith missed the jumper. And the play came during an intrasquad game on the first day of the Golden State Warriors' training camp. 
But it was exactly the kind of action new coach Rick Adelman wants to see from his Warriors, and just the type of play that wasn't possible last year as Golden State stumbled to a 26­56 record. 
Last season, Hardaway and Sprewell were publicly feuding. Mullin missed 57 games as Golden State led the NBA in in­juries. Smith was still a sopho­more at Maryland. 
And the concept of three passes on one Warriors play was ludicrous. 
The 1994-95 season started with title aspirations and ended in chaos. The first half was con­sumed by a feud between Chris Webber and coach Don Nelson that led to Webber's trade and Nelson's resignation. The sec­ond half featured a team in dis­array just trying to finish out the season. 
This season, the Warriors are trying to start all over. 
Adelman joins a new general manager, Dave Twardzik. All­Star guards Hardaway and Sprewell have agreed to co-ex­ist, even if they'll never be best buddies. 
Mullin made it through the preseason intact. And Smith joined the team as the NBA's No. 1 draft pick. 

"New management, new coaches, new offense," Hard­away said. "I think it was time for a change. It just wasn't working out." 
Adelman has stressed ball movement on offense and pres­sure on defense. Those are not unusual concepts for a coach to emphasize, but they seemed like foreign ideas last season at Golden State. 
The Warriors were the NBA's worst defensive team last sea­son, allowing 111 points a game. They lost nine games by more than 20 points. 
"I don't look at last year as a failure. It's only a failure if they don't learn from it," said Adelman, who took last season off after being fired by Portland in 1994. "We have a new group in a new situation." 
Hardaway and Sprewell be­gan talking out their differ­ences late last season at a prac­tice. They met with Adelman and Twardzik before this sea­son, and sat down to dinner to­gether one night during train­ing camp. 
"You have to communicate with your teammates. That's one thing that was so disap­pointing last season," Sprewell said. "You don't have to be best friends. We don't have to go eat dinner each night, as long as we can communicate and have respect for each other." 
Hardaway missed the 1993­94 season following left knee surgery, and spent much of last year working back into top playing shape. He begins this year still feeling the effects of surgery on his left wrist late last season. 
In Adelman's offense, Hard­away will be expected to dis­tribute the ball more. 
''I'm still the same old Tim Hardaway, just in a new sys­tem," he said. ''I'm trying to run the offense the way he wants it to be run, to move the ball around. On fast breaks I can do my same old crossover and go to the hole and be ex­plosive." 
For the first time, Hardaway has a serious challenger for the point guard slot. B.J. Arm­strong, obtained in a five-for­one trade with the expansion Toronto Raptors, excelled at both guard positions during preseason. 
"He's a perfect fit," Adelman said of Armstrong, the only member of the Warriors with an NBA championship ring. He was on three championship teams with the Chicago Bulls in 1991-93. 
The 6-foot-10, 225-pound Smith will be expected to use his long arms and leaping abil­ity to grab rebounds and block shots, and Adelman is encour­aging him to step outside for 10-foot jumpers. Adelman is confident Smith's speed· will help make up for his lack of bulk. 
"The more he can be pushed and the more he understands the physical play he's going to have to endure. the better it is for Joe," Adelman added. 
Except for Smith and Arm­strong, the roster is similar to last year's. Rony Seikaly and Clifford Rozier will share time at center, while Donyell Mar­shall and Chris Gatling will back up Smith at power for­ward. 

Opportunities in management consulting for 
McKinsey&Company 

undergraduates of all majors 
THEBU~NESSANALYSTPROGRAM 

Presentation and reception Thursday, November 2, 1995 -7:00 p.m. Joyce Center -Monogram Room 
'•,r·, . , -.•. '' . , ,. '' ''~ . 
-

Spurs emulate Rocket formula 
Sonics attempt to 
forget about past 
By JIM COUR 
As.o.oc.iared Press 
SEATfLE 

Try as they might. the Seattle SuperSonics can't escape their recent past. 
They were ousted by Denver in the first round of the 1994 playoffs and by the Los Angeles Lakers in the opening round of the '95 postseason. Still. the Sonics insist they still have the talent to win an NBA championship. 
Are they just kidding them­selv£lS? Did their playoff elimi· nutions the past two seasons destroy them psychologically? Did the losses steal any of the fragile confidence they're going to need to survive this season? 
"I think there's going to be a degree of nervousness when the playoiTs come next year," coach George Karl admitted. 
But until then, the Sonics will try to follow last year's successful regular season ­57-25. the league's fourth-best record -with another one. Seattle has averaged 60 regu­lar-season wins the past two 
SflUSOI\S. 
"It's upsetting to know that you're labeled as a choker or whatever they want to call you," veteran guard Nate McMillan said. "But the thing Is we huve another opportuni· ty. We still have a good team here. We've still got an oppor· tunity if we want to improve ourselvos and go forward." 
All-Stars Shawn Kemp. Gary Payton and Detlef Schrempf aro back. So is Ervin Johnson, who is expected to be the starting center, along with Sam Perkins, Vincent Askew and McMillan. 
Gone are Kendall Gill and Sarunas Marciulionis, traded away by the Sonics at Karl's urging. They were unhappy with their minutes and their roles under Karl. He was un­happy with their attitudes. 
The Sonics traded the dis· gruntled Gill back to Charlotte for Hersey Hawkins, who will replace Gill in the starting lineup as their shooting guard. 
The Sonics dealt Marciulionis to Sacramento for 36-year-old Frank Brickowski, sidelined all last season with a shoulder injury. 
"I think tho guys that we changed needed to be changed," Karl said. "Their ego and their individuality had created a locker-room prob· lorn and a lot of problems managing the team. 
"I was part of that problem. I'm happy the organization supported me and now we've moved forward and tried to solve some of our weak· nesses." 
After the Sonics' second straight sudden playoff depar­ture. a lot of people thought the 44-year-old Karl would follow general manager Bob Whitsitt out the door. Whitsitt and team owner Barry Ackerley parted company after the Denver playoff defeat. 
In Karl's case, it didn't hap­pen. Ackerley elected not to swallow the final season of Karl's contract, which will pay him $1.1 million this season. Ackerley and general manager Wally Walker looked at Karl's regular-season record in Seattle (202-86, .701) for 3 1/2 seasons, not his playoff record (17·20). 
"You all made it sound like I wasn't going to come hack,'' Karl said. "I didn't feel that way." 
The Sonics players are en­couraged by the fact the team's ownership and front office elected not to make any major changes -like trading Kemp, Payton or Schrempf. 
"I still think  we  have  a  
legitimate  team  here,"  
McMillan said.  


~~f~Ef\m!U f\lT THE SN~TE 
presented by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
631·7361 

"IMMENSELY PLEASING! 
A_,..,, 1m0119 tile hollow brt tt.ngs of tll1t aummtr seuoo ' · 
ra...o-.tllt"fflt ...~IM 
"THERE'S MAGIC IN IT!, 
...__,_._IIII;IUI:III(I~ 
"THE YEAR'S BIG SURPRISE!" 
FRIDAY &SATURDAY 7:30 AND 9:45 PM 

World Wide Web<http:/ /www.nd.edu/-cothweb/wwwsnite.html> 
By KELLEY SHANNON Associated Prrss 
SAN ANTONIO 
Over and over, the San Antonio Spurs keep saying it. They're a better team without Dennis Rodman. 
As evidence, they point to the Houston Rockets, the team that beat them in six games in the Western Conference finals. 
"There's no question that has some efTect," said center David Robinson, last season's league MVP. "Houston showed you last year it wasn't that important to necessarily be the most talent­ed team but to be the best 'team' team." 
If chemistry counts more than anything, the Spurs will be bet­ter ofT without Rodman, his tat­toos, assorted hair colors and defiant behavior. But they'll miss two things he took with him to Chicago: rebounds and defense. 
What they won't miss is his erratic behavior. 
Rodman missed the first 1 7 games last season because of suspensions and a personal leave of absence. Down the sea­son stretch. he was sidelined with a shoulder injury sus­tained in a motorcycle wreck. And in the playoffs, Rodman got into an on-court dispute with coach Bob Hill. 
So it was no surprise when the Spurs dealt Rodman. the league's leading rebounder for four straight seasons, to Chicago for center Will Perdue, who averaged 8.0 points and 

6. 7 rebounds last year while splitting time with Luc Longley and Bill Wennington. On paper, the trade is certainly uneven, but the Spurs are convinced they've added by subtracting. 
"This team's going to be bet­ter from a chemistry standpoint because we don't have distrac­tions,'' Hill said. "We had a number of them a year ago. (At training camp) everybody com­municated, everybody's on time. I think as a result, we're going to be a better basketball team." 
And Perdue can score, said Hill, who expects to play him alongside Robinson at times. 
"Most centers, he can guard them. He has in the past. He started 7 8 games in Chicago last year," Hill said. 
To make up for Rodman's league-high 16.8 rebounds a game, the Spurs also have ac­quired forward Carl Herrera and forward-center Greg "Cadillac" Anderson and Brad Lohaus. 
"Overall we've added an enormous amount of character, professionalism," Hill said. "There's no question that the environment of the team is for the better." 
But the Spurs also face the challenge of matching up to last year's 62 victories, the most in the NBA. And Robinson will have to put behind him memo­ries of the conference finals, in which he was badly outplayed by Hakeem Olajuwon. 
"I don't think anybody on this team worry about what people think," Hill said. "Winning 62 games is a terrific accomplish­ment. It's my hope under those pressure situations we can again excute like we did last year. The expectations are cer­tainly going to be high. We just have to be the best we can be every night, and a little bit more and I think we'll be fine." 
"This is a different team. We're a more professional team, and I think our goals will definitely be higher," Robinson said. 
Despite a few preseason in­juries, and the slowdown in conditioning that has meant for some players, Hill likes the progress his team has made in the exhibition season. 
"We're way ahead of last year," he said. "And the team has been able to stay competi­tive and win, so that's a good sign. I think that breeds confi­dence and self-esteem." 
Three Spurs starters are coming off career-high years. Small forward Sean Elliott av­eraged 18.1 points a game, and shooting guard Vinny Del Negro chipped in 12.5. 
Manning returns to action 
By MEL REISNER Associated Press 
PHOENIX 
The Phoenix Suns will need to see how they fit together at least twice this season, once at the start and again in January, when Danny Manning returns to test his rebuilt left knee. 
Manning means that much to the Suns. who have won 53 or more games for seven straight seasons with just one trip to the NBA Finals to show for it. 
They finished with the league's third-best record last season at 59-23, but there was a dropoff after Manning tore his anterior cruciate ligament on Feb. 6. The Suns, 36-10 at the time. struggled to win 23 of their last 36 games. 
Even without Manning's con­tribution -17.9 points, 6 re­bounds and 3.3 assists -the Suns should be a leading con· tender in the Western Confer­ence. 
Fourth-year coach Paul West­phal, never known for hyper­bole, allows as much. 

"Ultimately, I think we have the potential to have the best team I've had here," Westphal said. "There are a lot of 'ifs' on our team, but I like our chances if those things come together." 
At age 32 and starting his 12th season, Charles Barkley is playing without pain in his back or legs for the first time since 1993, and A.C. Green guaran­tees consistency at power for· ward with a 731-game streak of regular season games, third­best in history. 
Those two and point guard Kevin Johnson are the imme­diately recognizable faces of the team. 
But five of the 12 names on the roster are new this season, and three are rookies. They give the Suns an opening-night average age of 27 1/2, the low­est in five years. Factor in rook­ies Mario Bennett and John Coker. who are on the injured list, and the Suns have a sub­stantial youth movement. 
All three draft picks ­
EARN CASH by DONATING 
You could earn: 
$30°0after your first plasma donation! 

$1500  if you donate alone (first visit)  
+$  soo  if you show college I.D. (first visit)  
+$1 000  per person nyou recru~ someone and they donate  

$30°0 TOTAL! Help Us Save Lives Must be 18 years old; proof of current address with photo I. D. COME TO: HOURS: AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL M-F: 9-6 515 LINCOLNWAY WEST SAT: 8-5 SOUTH BEND, IN 46601-1117 234-6010 

Michael Finley, Bennett and Chris Carr -made the squad and saw extensive playing time while the Suns went 4-4 in the preseason. 
Finley, a small forward from Wisconsin, plays the kind of defense needed on a team that traded Dan Majerle to Cleve­land for John "Hot Rod" Williams. 
The Suns were second to Miami in scoring last season 
(110.6 average) but kept games close by allowing an average of 106.8. 
Defense figured in the Williams trade more than the 6-foot-11 center's 12.9-point scoring average over nine sea­sons. The Suns also gave up Antonio Lang and a first-round draft pick to get a pillar in the middle. 
Williams led the Cavaliers last season with 101 blocks, a 
1.36 average, and left with franchise records for blocks (1,200) and offensive rebounds (1,620). 
He also adds flexibility, espe­cially when Westphal opts for a quick, ball-handling supporting cast. Last season, backup cen­ter Joe Kleine had to come out when the Suns wanted to go small, but Williams will stay in. 
The Suns tried a franchise­record 1,584 3-pointers last season and made a record 584. 
Now, they are minus Majerle and retiree Danny Ainge, two of their top three outside shoot· ers, but don't look for the bar­rage to end. 
Spring Break 1996 TRAVEL FREE!! 
Jama(ca. Cancun. Bahamas 
panama City. oavtona. Padre ** Great low, low prices **Free Trip on only 15 sales 
Call for a FREE ~ joformatjon packet ! F 
~ Sun Splash Tours u 1-800-426-771 0 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, November 2, 1995 
• Cm.LEGE BASKETBALL 

-
Big Ten coaches seek respect 
By DAVE GOLDBERG 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
The NFL and the players' union settled Deion Sanders' contract Thursday, allowing the star cornerback to play for the rest of.. tbe season and 
removing t1J~ . . .. ........... 
courts; ,,,·; :;;,. . · . ; <;·· ·· 
In a matter that again Dallas Cowboys owner Jones against the NFL; the team will now be charged an additional $1.6 million against their salary cap over the next four years. 
But the settlement also charges the Cowboys far more 
under the cap ­ as much as  
$6.2 million  ~  if they cut  
Sanders in 1998.  

.{ones, who initially. saici game for
wit1l ·.··. 
team would "prevail'' in rhit> .•.•.• ,•.,...1 dispute, said the club,. for the moment, is satisfied but needs' to make a "thorough evalua· tion" ofthe agreement. "We have not had a chance to see the written details and how detailed the total agree· ment is," Jo.nes said. "One 
thing is clear. lt will have no impact on our 1995 cap or our roster. We do not have to cern ourselves with are. pleased ~ovt 
is no>.sense hfl respond now~·~' • · < . The Cowboys could still. ap· 
peal. but Jones said "we~re taking this thing in real good faith. We may not have to 
By MIKE NADEL 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
Steve Fisher is launching Michigan's post-Fab Five era. Purdue's Gene Keady is aiming for an unprecedented third con­secutive outright Big Ten bas­ketball title. Tom Davis is trying to prove Iowa deserves the pre­season hype. 
All Bob Knight wants is a quick-handed shirt puller. 
The ever-irascible Indiana coach used Wednesday's Big Ten media day to poke fun at NCAA rulemakers who have asked referees to enforce a reg­
also increases mtmmum 
ulation that requires players to salary r?r five-'year players 
keep uniform shirts tucked in at from $178,090 ~o at least 
all times. $250,000 next season. 
"The game is relatively slow. Sanders ayed his first 
There isn't a lot that officials 
last Sunday have to watch. So this gives of­ficials something to do," Knight 
said. 
"I was going through things last night and I listed the new rule on shirt tails as being sec­ond only to the development of the jump shot when the total history of basketball is writ­ten." 
The rule has existed for a few years, Big Ten assistant com­missioner Rich Falk said, but the NCAA decided to "give it some meat" because it wants to improve its image and sports­manship. 
The first time a player is caught with his shirt tail out "as a defiant act" and not just as heat-of-action happenstance, the player's team will be warned. 
Any player on that team who later breaks the rule would have to leave until the next play stoppage. 

"We're working on our kids being able to slip the shirt tail out of another kid's shorts at a critical time in the game," Knight said. 
"And you've got to be both offensive and defensive. So we're going to have a velcro substance on the inside of our shorts. and on that velcro sub­stance will be a powder that burns. So any kid that tries to do that to us is going to have some severe problems." 
Falk laughed off Knight's comments. And he said that any player caught pulling out another player's shirt would be assessed an intentional foul, which would result in the other team getting two free throws and possession. 
Several Big Ten coaches also chuckled about Knight's state­ments. 
"He's going to have trouble on my team finding which shirt to pull when it comes to crunch time," Michigan State's Tom Izzo said, "because we do not have that go-to guy." 
Michigan and Purdue also lack the classic go-to guy but are expected to contend with Indiana and Iowa for the Big Ten title. 
Michigan. which played in consecutive NCAA title games in 1992 and 1993 -when Chris Webber, Jalen Rose, Juwan Howard, Jimmy King and Ray Jackson were fresh­men and sophomores -grad­uated the last of the Fab Five in '95. 
"It lives no more. I think we need to move beyond that," Fisher said. "We've got good players who hopefully will write a couple of chapters for them­selves that they can reflect back on in 10 years and be every bit as proud." 
Maurice Taylor, last year's Big Ten freshman of the year, leads a group of sophomores that some have dubbed "Fab Five II." 
Brandon Brantley, Purdue's top returning scorer, rebounder and shot-blocker, is one of the Boilermakers' six senior regu­lars. 
"We don't have any great players, but we've got a lot of good players," Keady said. "They'll play together, have good ball movement and play good team defense. They'll probably have a great team if I don't mess them up." 
Though the Boilermakers have won two straight outright conference titles, Iowa was tabbed as preseason favorite by media covering the Big Ten. 
Davis' Hawkeyes return starters Jess Settles, Chris Kingsbury, Kenyon Murray and Andre Woolridge from a team that went 21-12last season. 
"The expectations and pre­season publicity have helped our players," Davis said. "You can motivate from the front as well as the rear." 
Knight, whose team is led by Brian Evans, said the confer­ence remains one of the na­tion's best despite last season's 1-7 NCAA tournament record. 
"So what?" he said. "Check the history of the Big Ten in NCAA tournament play and then wonder where the Big Ten 
is." 
DICK VITALE is • HOLDING COURT 
Join Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore in welcoming legendary ESPN and ABC-N college basketball analyst Dick Vitale for two book signings this weekend. 




Thursday, November 2, 1995 
The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• NFL 
St. Louis signs
Buffalo overcomes key injuries 
By JOHN AFFLECK Bills in consecutive losses to The Bills had a legitimate .Associated Press New England and Miami, leav­deep threat coming into train­
Biasucci to deal
ing Buffalo (5-3) tied for first in ing camp in second-year man 
OHCHARD PARK, N.Y. the AFC East with the Dolphins Bucky Brooks. But Brooks had 
By R.B. FALI.STROM

Andre Reed is still out. and Colts. a poor exhibition season and 
Associated Press 

Hussell Copeland and Justin While not a speedster, Reed wound up getting cut. 
Armour are playing hurt. The has the ability to get behind de­Buffalo gave Ricky Sanders a 
ST. LOUIS
Buffalo Bills' receiving corps fenses to catch the long ball. tryout last week but passed on The St. Louis Rams have alacks spelld and depth heading His 41-yard TD catch against the former Washington Red­new kicker and maybe a newinto a key divisional matchup Cleveland was critical to Buf­skins' wideout, who has had 
set of running backs to take
with Indianapolis Colts. falo's 22-19 win over the trouble with his hamstring and 
handoffs from quarterback
"Today we had Andre down, Browns. was released earlier in the sea­Chris Miller, Bussell down, Justin Armour Since Reed got hurt, opposing son by Miami. 
The Rams settled on Dean
limping, (Steve) Tasker limping defenses have been able to play Kelly said he pushed for the 
Blasuccl on Wednesday to
around," quarterback Jim Kelly Buffalo receivers tight without Bills to pick up another speed­
replace rookie Steve 
said after practice Wednesday. fear of giving up a long com­ster after Brooks was cut, but McLaughlin, who was released"We had one guy -Billy pletion. The result against Mi­no one was available at the on Monday.
Brooks -and Billy's our oldest ami was that on five occasions time. "Maybe I did think Bucky Now coach Rich Brooks hasmcniver out there." Buffalo completed third-down was going to be more than he 
to decide whether to risk
Heed sustained a hamstring passes for less yardage than turned out to be," he said. 
Jerome Bettis re-aggravatlng ainjury in Buffalo's Oct. 8 win was needed. Copeland and Bill Brooks said 
sprained foot yet again for 
over the New York Jets and "There are plays when a re­the lack of a deep threat won't 
Sunday's game at New Or· 
may be out for another month. ceiver is getting a certain type matter against the Colts if they leans. Bettis' backup, Leonard Thurman Thomas, a solid re­of coverage, he may shorten and the rest of the Buffalo of­Russell, also is injured with a ceiver out of the backfield, is that route," Bills interim head fense simply execute better. 
turftoe suffered last week, but recovering from a hamstring coach Elijah Pitts said. "If he ''I'm not going to say we don't 
may have a better chance of
pull and is unlikely to play on has to go 12 yards and he's get­have enough speed to go deep. 
playing.

Sunday at Indianapolis. ting tight, pressed coverage and It's not really what we have in Bettis was listed as question·Copeland (neck) and Armour getting bumped around a little the game plan," Copeland said. 
able and Russell as probable.
(ankle) are both listed as ques­bit. he's only going to get that "We've just been struggling on Neither practiced Wednesdaytionable. route to eight yards. It's just a offense the whole year, let's be for the Rams, who have lost Heed's absence has cost the matter of timing." honest about the whole thing." 
three of four and are in a three-way tie for first in the NFC West at 5·3. .
Harbaugh maintains streak 
"They want to try to rest me to a certain extent, but we'reBy HANK LOWENKRON day. "We've got excellent quarter­playing New Orleans, it's a bigAssoctated Press "I would like to be out there. backs in Craig and Paul, and if division game," Bettis said.
It's an important game. I don't they're better suited to get us a 

"At what point do we say I sit?
INDIANAPOLIS want to be sitting on the bench, win on Sunday, that's the most "l don't think it's this weekThe Indianapolis Colts, off to but at the same time, I want the important thing," Harbaugh by any means." · tlwir hest start since 1977. had best guy to be able to play said. 

Russell has never had turf.lim Harbaugh listed as ques­quarterback," Harbaugh said. Harbaugh became the Colts 
toe before and has hobbled
tionable Wednesday for their Harbaugh, who hopes to starter after Erickson struggled around most of the week, butcrucial AFC East showdown make his seventh consecutive in the opening two games. His 
said he'd have no problem
with Buffalo. start on Sunday, began the sea­first start came in Buffalo playing.
Harbaugh, whose AFC-lead­son as the back-up to Craig where the Bills posted a 20-14 
"I have a pretty high pain
ing 101.() quarterback rating is Erickson. victory -the only divisional tolerance, so I've got to go,"tlw second highest in the Erickson and Paul Justin, a loss for an Indianapolis team Russell said. "One of us has toleague. was mainly a spectator 1991 draft pick of Chicago who that could gain a significant ad­go. I think both of us will be on the practice field Wednesday hasn't taken a snap in an NFL vantage in a tiebreaker by out there Sunday because it'swhile doing limited throwing. It game, divided most of the work avenging the defeat. 
a big game for us." 

was his first time on the field in practice Wednesday. Coach The Colts (5-3) are tied with 
The running attack has
sinen he sustainod a groin in­Ted Marchibroda said he would Buffalo and Miami for-first jury as the Colts defeated the wait until at least Friday to de­place in the AFC East. 
struggled behind a shaky line regardless of health. Bettis has 408 yards and a 3.4-yard aver­age and Russell has 168 yards and a 3.1-yard average. 
Both are straight-ahead backs, and the running game will have a much different look ifthey can't play. 
Third-down specialist Johnny Bailey, who has 10 carries for 56 yards, could be the starter. 
"I'm not the rounding back. I'm the kind o back who can do other things," said the 5­foot-8, 180-pound Bailey, who led the Rams with 59 recep­tions last year. "But I'll stick my head in there. 
"I don't have any problem with that at all." 
. Greg Robinson. signed as a free agent on Wednesday, could get a lot of playing time depending on how much of the system be can learn. Robinson led the Raiders in rushing as a rookie in 1993, gaining 591 yards, but missed all of last year with a knee injury. 
The Rams claimed Robinson on waivers from Oakland on Aug. 23, but Robinson failed his physical. He then under· went arthroscopic knee surgery and Brooks said the knee is strong. 
"I would assume he could probably carry the ball 10 or 12 times." Brooks said. "Based on what l've seen and my knowledge of it, he's faster than any back we have." 
Biasucci prevailed in a two­man tryout against Chip Lohmiller. Lohmiller has a stronger leg but is reeling a bit after being released by New Orleans on Monday. 
New York Jets 17-10 on Sun-cide on a starter. "The big thing is we want Jim to be able to be Jim at quarter­.--------------=============:=~ , back," Marchibroda said. "He 
for Interhall and Grad/Fac/Staff Games. Pays $8.50 a game. If you are cur­rently a Co-Hee official and would like to do other basket­ball leagues, please call 631­6100 and ask for Mark. Women's Lacrosse -Practice wil be in Loftus on Nov 13 and 15 from 9-10 pm. These will be our last practices for the semester. Any questions? Call Alison @ 239-7924, Tara x1489 or Erin x2639. Fall Ball Classic -RecSports and Student Activities are co­sponsoring this 3 on 3 basket­ball tournament which will be held November 7 and 8. The entry fee is $6.00 and the deadline is November 6. Space is limited and there are men's and women's divisions. Varsity basketball players are inel­igible. Register in advance at RecSports or LaFortune Gorch Game Room. Sportstalk -Join hosts Matt Hoefling, Dave Bucolo and Ken Macek this Sunday at 9:00 on WVFI 640 AM as they welcome Kory Minor. 
CANCUN·SOUTH PADRE ISlAND
+ E•ly booking aovinga until Nov. 15, 1995
+6u••ntHd l._l Price
+Boolc urly for the lowest price & but properties 
$99PI!.. ..... 
FROM PI!...ON $399L.. South Padre cane•• loll: With P101m1 City uvnly dtmeged ~y Hurrie~ne Opal, ellapece ia ullin1 aut fest 
1-800-SURF"S UP 
STUDI:NT I:)(PHI:SS. INC. 
Flowers, Roses,
FLOWERS 
Balloons, Birthday
DELIVERED 
Cakes, Fruit Baskets,
cS17 DAYScSl 
Plush Animals and Gifts 


C/ocktower Square 
ALL MAJOR CREDIT Phone Answered

51400 US 31 North 
24 Hours a Day

South Bend CARDS 4CCEPTED 
277·1291 or 1·800·328·0206 

The place to go for ALL your NOTRE DAME sportswear & accessories! 
We Accept VIsa, Mast:er Card and Discover 

can take snaps. I think he can drop back and throw, If he doesn't have to run and scram­ble, drop out of the pocket, he'd be fine. 
"But, his mobility is a big part of his game, and we don't want him out there if he can't play his game. That's why we're go­ing to have to wait until the end of the week and see if he can scramble." 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 

Late Night Olympics Steering Committee -RecSports is look­ing for some enthusiastic stu­dents who would be interested in helping to plan this all-night sports extravaganza. As in the past, all funds raised from LNO will go to benefit Special Olympics. Any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student who is interested should call 1-8237. Needed -Basketball officials 
1 Hour Therapeutic Massage with Dale 
Houston ...$4500 
Faces Artistic Design Center 
547:7 Fir Road 255-5556 
Mishawaka 
Complete Set of Nails 
.••$3500 1il~ 


Hair • Skin Care • Nails • Massages • Tanning Offer Good 'till 12/15/95 
Happy21 .. Birthday, 

...... 
Women's Pairings 
4 PE  
&p.m.  
5 Lewis  Wednesday  

1 Pan born 80-C 
1 Pangborn 
Sunday Sunday Nov.5 Nov.12 
4 PE 
at Cartier 
6 Lyons 3Walsh PM 6 Lyons 
ND StepanStadiym field 
2PW 7 Badin 

-
Men 
continued from page 20 
three turnovers in their first round game against Keenan, including an interception by Mike Doherty that stopped Keenan's final chance and sealed the victory. One player to look for on the defensive side of the ball for Fisher is Chris Ebey, a big active defensive lineman that could help his team disrupt Zahm's big-play offense. 
The Zahm offense may not be the focus of the team from the opponent's standpoint, but in no way can they be overlooked. They always seem to put more than enough points on the board, and they do it in style. 
In their first meeting earlier this year, freshman receiver Mike Bailey made a diving catch for a touchdown and Paul Berrettini caught another touchdown off of a halfback pass. Players like Bailey, se­nior running back/flanker Dan Glennon, and quarterback Chris Orr allow Zahm to score in a hurry. 
The part of this team that ev­eryone knows about is the "Red Swarm" defense. · 
In four regular season games and one playoff game, this squad has given up only three points. The squad is led by the intense play of linebacker Jake Schaller and defensive end Pat McDonough, with Bailey, Glennon, and Mike Wigton sup­plying the help from the sec­ondary. 
5 Fisher ~ 1 p.n 4 Keenan 5 Fisher 
Sunday at Stepan 
3Aiumni 
6 Flanner 
2p.m 
6 Flanner 7 Stanford  1  
2 Dillon 7 Stanford  

Even though. Fisher has start­ed playing like a playoff-caliber team over the last few weeks, Zahm players still believe that their road to the championship won't stop at this game. 
Says Schaller, "We're always a pretty confident team, but we're a little worried. Fisher's gotten a couple of wins under their belts, and they're defi­nitely a lot better than the first time we played them. We still think we'll be in the champi­onship game next week." 
However, if they lose their focus and look ahead to the finals, this Fisher team definite­ly has the ability and the spirit to surprise the confident Zahmbies, and possibly end their dream of an undefeated season and winning a champi­onship. 

Irish, Navy resume old rivalry 

PLAYO FFS 

By DAVID GINSBURG 
Associated Press 
ANNAPOLIS, Md. 

It's one of the oldest college football rivalries in the country -and the most lopsided. 
Navy hasn't beaten Notre Dame since 1963, when a young quarterback by the name of Roger Staubach engineered a 35-14 rout. The Irish have scored at least 30 points in nine of the last 10 meetings, includ­ing a 58-27 drubbing two years ago and a 58-21 slaughter last season. 
Still, the Midshipmen have reason to believe that things could be different this Saturday. 
For one thing, Northwestern hadn't beaten the Irish in more than three decades before pulling out a season-opening 17-15 victory. And three weeks ago Army gave Notre Dame all it could handle before dropping a 28-27 decision. 
"Sure it's been a while since we beat them, but there's a first time for everything. Just look at what Northwestern 
did," Navy center Brian Dreshsler said Wednesday. "They're not invincible ... they're heatable." 
Only two teams have defeated the Irish this season, and both are currently in the Top 10. Notre Dame (7-2) reeled off three straight wins after the Northwestern game, then fol-
Nov. 9, 10, 11 ot 8p.m. Nov. 12 ot 2:30 p.m. Moreau Center/Uttle Theatre 
For ticket information, coll219/284-4626 Mon. -Fri., 9a.m. -5 p.m. 

Studs battle 'Cocks for trip to IH finals 
ByJOECAVATO strangers to each other as they Spores Writer battled early in the season in a 
huge matchup when the Studs One more game. were in the No. 2 slot with One step away. Flanner right behind them at Only one more victory stands No. 3. 
between them and the chance Stanford's first round 
to play for the.--------------, trimuph looked interhall foot-much the same ball champi-as Flanner's as onship. It's they defeated crunch time for No. 2 ranked the 'Cocks from Dillon 7-0. 
Flanner and the At the helm Studs from of the Studs' Stanford. offense is Mike 
These teams Brown, who have a lot in has the ability common. Early to run the in the year both option. One of of these squads B r o w n e ' s were ranked options in that second at different times. Both attack is running back Doug of these teams have faced set-Pollina. backs. And both teams pulled Stanford hopes that their de­off upsets in the first round of fensive line will be able to pull the interhall football playoffs. off another outstanding effort 
Coming in as the sixth seed, as they frustrated the Dillon of­the 'Cocks beat No. 3 ranked fense all day long. The Alumni in a game where de-anchors on that defensive line fense dominated. The Flanner are Ted Casiera and Ryan offense was lead by junior Lynch. quarterback Scott Lupo and Stanford captain Chris the running tandem of J.P. Pollina expressed his concern Fenningham and Jeremy over the Flanner running Lyons. The 'Cocks pulled out a attack. 6-0 upset as their defense led "Our major concern is their the way and the offense came running game. They're very through when they needed to. big, and they punish you. We 
Over the course of the sea-know that that is their game son, Flanner has proved to plan because they have been have a very potent and tough successful doing that in their running game as they depend last couple of wins. We are on a big line to sustain their just going to go out there and drives. play hard and hope for the 
Lupo concurrs, "Our line is best." the key to our offense, we need This rematch figures to be a them to have a good game. If tough and well fought battle our defense plays well, we will and one that will be in the be in the game. But Stanford trenches with the big uglies. is a good team, and we respect The winner goes on to the final them. We just hope we can game of the interhall season, come out with another victo-and the loser goes home. ry." Everything is on the line at 
These teams are not 2:00 at Stepan. 
3 On 3 Basketball ournament 
lowed a 45-26 loss to Ohio State with four more victories. But that 28-27 squeaker against Army proved that a service academy could indeed complete against the powerful Irish. 
"We look at what Army did, and that's encouraging," Navy running back Tim Cannada said. 



Thursday, November 2, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
-

:=::==========::::: 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
LOOI( I GEESE. ....~ FL'fiNG SOIJ\Il ,L -.L "'..,. ~ ~ T\4E 
Wl!'lit.R. 
DILBERT 

I HEARD YOU GOT 
A55IGNED ON A 
~DOTTED LINE" TO OUR BOSS' ARCH­
RIVAL. 
CROSSWORD 

49 Departed 51 "Animal House" 
wear 52 Sexual love 53 Force unit 55 Mr. Costello 

ACROSS 30 Home of Oral 50 Made a tea cozy, Roberts perhaps
1 Reggae artist University 54 Rags-to-richesPeter 
31 Prickly --tale 

5 Beer belly 56 Paid to play
32 German speed 

8 Accumulate 
57 Carol 13 Play's opener Mey 58 Stravinsky ballet 14 Catch in a way 59 Temperamental 
skater ---Jens 

33 Eastern Amerind 15 ---face 60 Syllable of 34 It's a wrap reproach(reversal) 36 Waterless 61 Manuscript encl. 
16 Ferenc Molnar 37 Throng
play 38 Any chapter of 
19 Macadam 
DOWN
the Koran 

binder 39 Black Bears' 
1 "Later, Jeeves" home 20 Harbor town 2 Newspaper 21 Pitchwoman 40 Ideal beau publisher

-Lenska 44Galoot Adolph
22 Cellular phone 3 Tread 
co. 45 Pacific goose 4 Skyscraper 
23 Dream-fulfilling 46 Down-and­5 Attend sans date 
benefactor outer's milieu &Increases 7 Poet Gallagher 8 Flier ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
a Tyke -c::-T-::"T":::-r:,..., 10 Pet food brand ~"+~'-l 11 Suffix with road 
or speed iiiot-=+=+=+=+~ 12 Spanish painter 28 Jock or J. R.
Jose Maria 29 Overhaul14Comeback 30 Agency worker, 
17Author-­
for short lngalls Wilder 34 Seek, as18 Errand runner damages
35Rainbow 
~"'=-+,.._,c-+:~ 24 Defense 
36 Operatic bits 
witness, 
38--cat 
perhaps 
(coward)25 Afternoon 1V 
39 It meant all to name 
Caesar --:=-+::-:+.,-+.::-i 26 LSD seizer 41 Signaled assent ~'-'-L:;...&..:'-' 27 Ontario tribe 42 Short sock 
TW\C£. f... '(£fo..R 11-\~ MIGRI\iE 11\0USA~DS Or MIL£5 AC¥!$:J~ 

u 
LOOK ON THE BRlGI-\T SIDE. ~ TI-\IN!<-OF 'I'OUR5ELF AS £ ..; LEADING TI-\E. E't.ClTING ~ ~ 
:;;
LIFE OF A SECRET ~ 
Ill 
DOUBLE ·A.GE.NI! 
1\Mo W"'1 f'l..,-? Arru. ~.T"'-'1 
H<>oT~Eo~ o.,,. 1\o~"'-'I··T"'-'1 ~o li\'E.o~ Ouor< 'SEi-Or 1/"cv~s ... A .. o, llb<<" \mpo!ttllr<I"L-'11Tt<e'1 \l.AoT~•·~ 
Wt< LAN~\lAqE.'Bu<" h Ill•"!. No ()-;£.. .. 
DAVE KELI .EIT 
I'll Bt.T nt(>..T G:I'S 
OLD RtAL 
H•.'SI. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
DON'\ 1"\0ST 
'THEY WlSH AGENISGET 
OOU5LE­
IT WAS CAPTURED 
IMMEDIATE. AND E~ECUTE.D lf"\1'\EDIATELY? 

YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 2,1995 
(For your personalized daily Jeane Dixon horoscope, based on your own 
date of birth, call 1-900-988-7788. Your phone company will bill you 99 
cents a minute.) HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: You instinctively !mow what people want. Capitalizing on this special gift could make you a business tycoon! Once 1996 gets underway, go after that promotion or highly desirable leadership position. Your qualifications are every bit as good as a competitor's! Examine your own actions before blaming others for a faltering romantic relationship. Your loved one may have very dif­ferent priorities. Let by-gones be by­gones. CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: frontiersman Daniel Boone, actress Stefanic Powers, author Shere Hite, French queen Marie Antoinette. ARIES (March 21-April 19): Put away your credit cards and curtail any unnecessary spending. Good friends will not pennit extravagance on their behalf. Excellent ideas roll in on the crest of your imagination. TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Choose your companions and asso­ciates with care. Socialize with happy, constructive people whose goals mesh nicely with your own. Tact is vital when trying to persuade someone to change their methods. GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Do not go off half-cocked just when previously-dosed doors are about to open. Dedication to duty will pay handsome dividends. Take advan­tage of a last-minute change in plans. Invite friends over. CANCER (June 21-July 22): The spotlight swings your way. A wann, nurturing relationship lifts your spirits but makes a career deci­sion even tougher. Continue to share the applause with those who have assisted your efforts. LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Use caution if asked to co-sign a loan for a needy friend. There are other ways you can help without jeopardizing your credit rating. A good listener is 
• OF INTEREST 

An "Urban Plunge" Information Session w111 be held tonight from 6:30-7 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. Those interested are invited to learn more about the Plunge. a 48 hour immersion and awareness program designed to help students experience and reflect upon the realities of poverty and injustice in our cities while earning one academic credit. Registration materials will be available at the meeting. 
The Notre Dame Orchestra will perform tonight at 8 
p.m. in Washington Hall. The concert Is free and open to the public. For additional information, contact the Department of Music. 
"Thunderheart" will be playing at Cushing Audi­torium at 8 p.m. tonight in conjunction with Native American Awareness Month. Admission is free. A panel discussion with Native American students will follow the tllm. 
..
•MENU Notre Dame 

North South Szechuan Beef Flank Steak Sandwich Baked Chicken Breast Parmesan Veal Parmigiana French Green Beans Scalloped Potatoes 
.. 
Saint Mary's 

BBQ Chicken Swiss Steak Jardinere Yellow Squash 
often considered a great conversa­tionalist! Be attentive. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl. 22): Feeling frustrated? Good luck will help you sunnount a barrier. You finally see the light at the end a financial tunnel. Do not reject a young person's ideas out of hand. They make good sense. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Visit­ing a bookstore or library will prove inspiring. Make friends with people who share your intellectual interests. A writing project moves into high gear. Self-improvement projects are favored. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): A partnership situation comes into clearer focus. Minor scheduling changes boost productivity. Look for new ways to increase profits. A compromise helps mend a family rift. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
i 
21): Pour your energy into "top pri­
I
ority" projects. Spreading yourself 
too thin would be a mistake. Learn to delegate routine tasks. A conserv­ative approach will work best in the world of finance. 
CAPRICORN {Dec. 22-Jan. 19): An investment opportunity has you puzzled. Take the time to weigh all your options. A friend who owes you money may try to borrow more. Decline! Turning down a blind date prevents a wasted evening. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Good news regarding a professional venture is reason to celebrate. A positive relationship with your co­workers could hasten career advancement. Someone offers you a special treat. 
PISCES {Feb. 19-March 20): Take care of essential tasks before turning to a fascinating new project. A contract may be worthless unless it contains clauses that specifically protect your rights. Deal honestly with a parent-<:hild problem. 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
.. ·.•.•,. 


.-----------~ --~-~-~­
SPORTS 

page 20 Thursday, November 2, 1995 
Lyons, PE set up showdown at the Stadium 


' -­
TIM MCCONN

• 
Sports Writer 


Notre Dame captains named 
Five seniors were voted to be captains ofthe 1995/rish squad: 
Paul Grasmanis Nose guard Jenison, MI 
Ryan Leahy Offensive guard Yakima, WA 
Dusty Zeigler Center Rincon. GA 


Derrick Mayes Split end Indianapolis, IN 
Shawn Wooden Cornerback Willow Grove, PA 

the skills it needs to run the option and execute it to perfec­tion. Nelson has to be consid-
One down, two to go. That is ered one of the top players at the situation that No. 1 Zahm his position in this year's sea­fmds itself in as they enter this son, as exemplified by his 151 weekend's sec-,...--------------, yard, one 
ond-round matchup with Fisher. The Zahmbies have no plans to overlook this game, although they flattened the Green Wave to the tune of 22-0 in Week 1. 
After defeat­ing Carroll handily in their first-round game, the Rabid Bats look to continue the domi­nance they have displayed throughout this year's interhall season against a Fisher squad that has come to life in recent weeks. 
The Green Wave comes into this game looking to run the ball right at the vaunted "Red Swarm" defense. The three­some of quarterback Alfredo Rodriguez, fullback Dave Walsh, and tailback Dayne Nelson provide Fisher with all touchdown performance in his team's upset over Carroll in the last week of the season. 
These guys believe in their running game. According to Walsh, "We're 
taking it right to them. Our offensive line has been playing great, getting that surge that we need, and Dayne Nelson has been doing everything for us." 
If need be, the Green Wave have no qualms about airing it out. Rodriguez has demon­strated time and again that he has the arm to get the ball to such receivers as Brian Hertz and Dan Karosen. 
Usually a bend-but-don't­break defense, Fisher created 
see MEN/ page 18 

Football 
vs. Navy, November 4, 1:30 p.m. EST 
Volleyball
SPO 
vs. Saint John's, November 3, 8 p.m. 
vs. Connecticut, November 5, 8 p.m. 
at a 
Men's Soccer 
vs. Villanova, November 3, 7:30p.m. at Wisconsin, November 5, 1 p.m. 
GLANCE 

PE upsets No.1 ranked Pangborn, Lyons tops Badin for a return trip to the finals 
By TODD FITZPATRICK 
Sports Writer 
The upset of the season in women's interhall football sets up Sunday's championship game between defending cham­

The game remained scoreless until Pasquerilla East's first possession of the second half. The Pyros returned the kickoff past midfield and drove the ball to the 2-yard line. Quarterback Elizabeth Plummer kept the attainable because of a thrilling come-from-behind victory over Badin. 
Off-setting interceptions by both teams gave the ball to Lyons early in the first half. Quarterback Julie Byrd con­
Sunday we want to finish the job," said P. E. coach Eric Hillegas. 
P. E. began the game by in­tercepting a half back pass on Pangborn's first possession, and they never let up. Pasquerilla East's stingy de­fense continually frustrated Pangborn's potent offensive at­tack throughout the game. 
Pangborn executed big plays on virtually every possession, but they failed to compile a consistent series that was necessary to drive the length of the field. Quarterback M. T. 
·Kraft and running back Trish Sorensen had several big plays, but none of them led to a Pangborn scoring drive. 

pion Lyons and the giant-killing 
nected with a wide-open Cathy Pyros of Pasquerilla East. Tschanz for the game's first 
P. E. stunned most observers touchdown. Mter the success­at Loftus Sports Center last ful PAT, Lyons led by seven. night by defeating top-ranked Badin retaliated on Lyons' Pangborn by a 6-0 score and next possession by intercepting ending the Phoxes' previously the football and racing the undefeated season. length of the field to pull within 
''I'm thrilled for these girls one point. right now. We've set goals for Lyons held on to their slim ourselves, and today we ac­lead until Badin's first posses­complished the first one. sion of the second half when 
ball and raced past the defen­sive line for the game's only touchdown. 
For the rest of the half, Pangborn tried valiantly to put together a successful scoring drive, but they were stopped repeatedly. P.E. defender Sarah McGowan intercepted Kraft's pass in Pangborn terri­tory with less than five minutes remaining. 
On Pangborn's final offensive drive, Kraft attempted four straight passes that fell incom­plete. 
Lyons 14, Badin 12 Lyons' goal of a second straight championship is still 
two complete passes to Shelly Dillenburger set up a touch­down strike to an eligible play­er on the offensive line. Badin's two-point conversion attempt was unsuccessful. so the Attitude led by five points. 
Lyons immediately put to­gether a touchdown-scoring drive of their own. Byrd drove her team down the field with accurate passing and a few rushing plays of her own. On fourth and goal, Byrd outran pursuing defenders to the end­zone giving Badin the lead. 
Lyons defender Maureen Hill ended any hopes of a comeback by intercepting passes on each of Badin's last two possessions of the game. 

• Men's Interhall football previews. 
Cross Country 
see page 18 
District Meet, November 11 

SMC Sports 
• NBA prepares to tip off new season. 
Soccer at Valparaiso, November 2 Volleyball at Goshen College, see pages 12-16 November4 
• Rams sign new kicker. 
see page 17 





