~---------------------------------------------------------­

Tuesday, Aprilll, 1995• Vol. XXVI No. 120 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Malloy

Thunderstorms 'shake' Notre Dame 
Michiana falls victim to weather, honored ND campus receives harsh blows 
byCASA

By DAVE TYLER on North Quad outside of News Editor Breen Phillips. Another large Special to the Observer tree fell near Notre Dame 
Strong storms moved Avenue and Edison Road, Reverend Edward Malloy, through the Michiana area blocking traffic for over an C.S.C, president of the Univer­early Monday morning, caus­hour this morning. sity of Notre Dame, has been 
'ing some damage to the Notre appointed chairman of the Dame campus. "There were about 10 to 12 new Commission on Substance 
Wind, rain, hail, and ice, ac­trees down all over campus," Abuse at companied thunder and light­said Bill Thistlewaite, superin­H i g h ning, as storms barreled tendent of Notre Dame Land­Schools across the region, causing scaping, who added that it was established scattered power outages, due to the combination of ice by the downing trees, and leaving and wind. Center on everything above ground level "You usually either get ice Addiction covered with a thin sheet of without wind or wind without a n d 
ice. ice," he said. "You don't see Substance 
On campus, the statue of The them at the same time very of­A b u s e Malloy Sacred Heart of Jesus was ten." (CASA) at knocked off its pedestal when No major damage was Columbia University. a tree fell over in the storm, caused by the storm, he added. The commission will exam­causing some damage to the The accumulation of ice on ine the extent and conse­statue. the trees made them extremely quences of the use and abuse 
The statue was removed by top-heavy, according to of all substances-including Notre Dame Security, and Thistlewaite, and when the tobacco, alcohol. illicit drugs, taken to the Snite Museum so wind started to blow some of inhalants, steroids and pre­damage can be assessed, ac­the trees toppled. He estimated scription medication-among cording to Dennis Moore, that clean-up around campus the nation's high school stu­Director of Public Relations would take two to three days. dents. and Information. "The (damaged) statue was "Teenage drug use is such a 
Several other downed trees looked at by the Snite Museum Some minor damage to the fallen trees. critical issue because it is dur­were reported across campus. Director Dean Porter, who said outside gutter system of Lyons Northerp Indiana Public Ser­ing this time of life that .A large maple tree was felled it could be repaired," he said. Hall was also damaged by a vice Company reported power skills-academic, social, phys­
ical-are developed and habits acquired which greatly influ­ence later success," said Joseph Califano, chairman and president of CASA and former and former secretary of the Department of Health, Education and Welfare. "Recent reports that indicate a rise in student substance use and abuse after a decade of decreased use make the commission's work even more urgent." 
Father Malloy chaired a similar CASA commission that issued a June 1994 report on alcohol abuse at American colleges and universities. He will be joined on the new 
see MALLOY I page 4 






Law professor Kmiec SMC to elect hall councils 
By PATTI CARSON that many seniors not living in Gretchen Fink (treasurer) tick­
nationally recognized 
Saint Mary's Editor Holy Cross have opted to live in et is "Working To Unite Le­LeMans, according to Barber. Mans."
Special to The Observer and property law. He is the 
With room selections for next The platform includes a lec­Heekin's group hopes toauthor of numerous books and 
year officially made at Saint ture series, an annual tailgater, achieve this unity throughProfessor of Law Douglas scholarly articles and is a fre­Mary's, it is time to select the and a hall mascot among other activities like a fundraising pic­Kmiec will take a leave from quent contributor to the op-ed hall councils of each dorm. things. nic, Christmas caroling in nurs­the University during the 1995-pages of leading newspapers. 
Many tickets are promoting "We also hope to maker in­ing homes, intrahall competi­96 academic year to accept the While on a previous leave 
dorm unity, improvements, and nerhall improvements, begin­tions, and LeMans hall sports­Dorothy and Leonard Straus from Notre Dame, Kmiec service oriented projects. ning with VendoLand. The wear among other things. 
Distinguished 
served as an assistant attorney 
Elections are being held today ventilation is poor as it stands," "Our ticket's greatestChair in Law general in the Reagan and during all meals at the dining Barber said. strength is our diversity. Weat Pepperdine Bush administrations, directing 
hall. Another LeMans Hall ticket represent a variety of majors
University in the Office of Legal Counsel in There are a total of eight tick­includes Angela Cataldo (presi­and classes," Heaney said. "WeMalibu, Calif. the U.S. Department of Justice. 
ets running in a competitive dent), Megan Borchers (vice hope to bring together a lot of
The Straus His most recent book, "The At­
race for hall council represen­president), Corinne Haan­perspectives, especially since
Chair is Pep­torney General's Lawyer", 
tatives. Three tickets are run­raahan (secretary), and Kristin students from all four classesperdine's chronicles his experiences in ning for student support in Le­Wisniewski (treasurer). will be living in LeMans," shehighest facul-the Meese Justice Department. 
Mans Hall. The Simone Barber "As far as service goes, we added.
ty honor and Kmiec He has been honored as a (president), Beth Ann Miller feel that Saint Mary's (through This ticket also hopes to pro­
previously White House Fellow and as a 
(vice president), Valerie Meyer LeMans) can give more back to mote LeMans Hall upkeep ashas been 40th anniversary Distinguished (secretary), and Jennifer Hard­the community," Cataldo said. well as a LeMans Hall year­occupied by U.S. Supreme Fulbright Scholar. 
ebeck (treasurer) ticket stresses The Cataldo ticket includes a book, according to Heekin.
Court Justice William A graduate of Northwestern 
that its members hope to bring test bank for old exams and Another goal is to improve rela­Rehnquist, Supreme Court University and the University a sense of unity to the LeMans, rentable SEGA games, coupled tions between the women of
Associate Justice Antonin of Southern California Law 
especially in such a large with service oriented projects both campuses through theScalia and former U.S. Solicitor Center, Kmiec founded the dorm. like tutoring and volunteering. establishment of a sister dorm
Kenneth Starr. Journal of Law, Ethics and 
Now that the senior housing The message of the Clare at Notre Dame, Heekin added. 
A member of the Notre Dame Public Policy at Notre Dame 
in Augusta Hall has been taken Heekin (president), Sandy Pen­Three tickets are also run-Law School faculty since 1980, and was the first director of away, the ticket hopes to serve ska (vice president), ShannonKmiec is a nationally recog­the University's White Center 
all classes, keeping in mind Heaney (secretary). and see ELECTIONS I page 4
nized scholar of constitutional on Law and Government. 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, April 11, 1995 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
The evil shuttle bus from Hell 

I think that it is time we talk. I want to dis-Caroline Blum cuss an unfortunate, Saine Mary's Sports but pending, matter in Editor my life. It is a matter that affects every aspect of my life: my work, my studies, and my social life. 
The matter that I would like to discuss is the disrupting, change-greedy, reeking, railroad­track-jumping, vomit-provoking, time retard­ed, inebriated-infested Saint Mary's shuttle bus. 
Okay, so I am one of those unfortunate Saint Mary's students who does not own a car, but do I deserve this kind of punishment? Sure, as a freshman all of the upperclassmen will tell you about the benefits of the shuttle. Today I ask, "beneficial for what?" 
Let us examine the supposed advantages. First, the bus has a time schedule. A time schedule? What the schedule neglects to inform us is that it is actually a "tentative" schedule rather than an actual schedule. For example, if the schedule lists 11:02 as the time Of arrival, you can estimate the actual arrival of the bus to be anywhere from ten·minutes before to ten minutes after 11:02. Last December I lost a toe to frostbite while waiting for the shuttle. What the shuttle drivers don't understand is that every minute they spend driving ten miles below the speed limit, we, the passengers, spend solidifying into ice sculptures at the grotto. 
People also claim that the shuttle. supplies an excellent carriage for fellow inebriated stu­dents. Hello! Has anyone out there had the memorable experience of riding the 2:03 shut­tle? 
For those who have not, let me give you a lit­tle rundown: After waiting around 30 min­utes, you can stumble up the shuttle stairs, stick your nickel in the quarter-collecter, and discover that there is no sitting room on the bus. So you stand, which wouldn't be so bad if Goldilocks wasn't leaning on you for balance. Your headache worsens as the sounds of the Zahm Family Singers come at you from the back of the bus. Then, your fate is sealed; it has happened... puke. The smell, the chunks ~welcome it all. You're not sure whether you should laugh or cry. 
The ride from the Grotto to Holy Cross on the 2:03 shuttle takes around twenty-five min­utes. I really wish I knew which insane indi­vidual gave the drivers their licenses. They take their turns on two wheels and issue a four second elapse between the time the bus goes over a bump and the time it lands back on four wheels. If you thought Weekend Wheels was bad, try riding the 2:03 shuttle. 
We, as Saint Mary's students, must rebel against these crucial problems of shuttle bus riding. I propose the following: First. the dri­vers will be required to take a sobriety test before their shift. Second, they must follow the designated shuttle schedule. Next, all rid­ers on the 2:03 shuttle will be given motion sickness bags upon admittance on the bus, and escorted off the bus in the event that any­one is caught singing. Finally, I propose that all shuttle stop areas be equipped with built-in heaters in order to prevent frostbite. Through adapting these proposals, we can bring an end to the dangerous world of shuttle bus riding. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Pete Rubinas  
Jamie Heisler  Viewpoint  
Gwendolyn Norgle  Rae Sikula  
Meaghan Smith  
Sports  Production  
Megan McGrath  Belle Bautista  
Dave Treacy  Susan Marx  
Lab Tech  

• Wont.o AT A GtA~CE 

Palestinian police arrest 112 militants after suicide-bomb 
GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip 
Under pressure to crack down on Islamic militants fol­lowing suicide attacks that killed seven Israeli soldiers and an American student, Palestinian police arrested 112 activists in the Gaza Strip today. 
Hospital officials said the student, Alisa M. Flatow, a 20-year-old Brandeis University junior who was from West Orange, N.J., died this afternoon after being wounded in the head with shrapnel in Sunday's suicide bombings. 
The back-to-hack attacks, which occurred within two hours of each other and wounded 43, led to new calls from Israeli leaders for PLO chief Vasser Arafat to dis­arm Islamic militants in the PLO-run Gaza. 
The Islamic Jihad group claimed responsibility for the first attack, in which a suicide bomber identified as Khaled Khatib drove an explosives-laden car into an Is­raeli commuter bus near the Kfar Darom settlement. Six Israeli soldiers were killed and 34 people injured. 
A seventh soldier, a 20-year-old sergeant, died of his wounds today. 
A short while after the first blast, a Palestinian car plowed into an Israeli convoy of military and civilian vehicles near the Netzarim settlement and exploded. Eleven people, including two young girls, were wounded. 
Miss Flatow, the most severely injured, had earlier to­day been declared brain dead at Soroka Hospital in Beersheba. 
Dole launches White House bid 

TOPEKA, Kan. 
Embracing the conservative agenda of lower taxes, smaller government and a balanced budget, Bob Dole launched his third White House bid Monday by casting himself as uniquely qualified to "lead America back to her place in the sun." "I am not afraid to lead, and I know the way," the Senate majority leader said as he formally 


declared his candidacy for the 1996 Republican presidential nomination. "Let us rein in our government to set the spirit of the American people free. Let us renew our moral convictions and strengthen our families by returning to fundamental values. Together, let us reassert our rightful place as a great nation," he said. Dole, 71, entered the race with a scornful critique of President Clinton as a "clever apologist of the status quo," elected on a platform of change in 1992 but now fighting the change voters demanded in the Republican sweep in 1994. 

New Yorker cover angers Christians 
NEW YORK 
A New Yorker cover depicting a business-suited Easter Bunny crucified on a tax form has upset some Christians. William Donohue, president of the Catholic League for Religious and Civil Rights, said Monday that the illustra­tion is insulting to Christians and "particularly outra­geous" during the week leading up to Easter Sunday. The illustration. by cartoonist Art Spiegelman, shows a white rabbit in a suit and tie. He is in a crucifixion pose -arms extended, head sagging, legs together. His pock­ets are pulled inside out to signify his penury. The image is superimposed on one of Form 1040A. The title: "Theology of the Tax Cut." In a statement, Spiegelman said his drawing was inspired by the fact that April 15­the traditional tax deadline -falls this year on Holy Saturday. "As a citizen, I don't actually believe we are too highly taxed (although I believe our taxes are not being well used). Nor, as a grownup, do I believe in the Easter Bunny," Spiegelman said. "But, as a cartoonist, I believe in the power of images to provoke thought." 
• INDIANA WEATHER • NATIO~Al WEATHER 1\Jesday, Aprilll 
Accu-Weather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The Accu-Weather~ forecast for noon, Tuesday, April 11. 
FRONTS: 
-r-r ...&...a...~ 

COLD WARM 5TAnONARY 
C 1995 Accu-Weather. Inc. 

Pressuf8 ~ ~ 
H L EJ &Sl !I!l 0 ~EJ ¥ LJ.U 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUUY CLOU[J'( 

The Islamic Jihad 
The Islamic Jihad Ia a complex and secretive organization of 9"111118 and cella whleh operate In Middle Eaatem countries and Europe. 

Ill The Islamic Jihad aspires to overthrow sacular Arab ragimas in order to establish an Islamic pan-Arab empire. 
Ill The Jihad views war against the Jews and Israel as the assentiallirsl step toward fulflllln~ the Q.OBIS ollslam. The Jihad claims that the conltict with ths Jews In PalestuJe will be resolved only by violent confrontation. 
IIThe Islamic Jihad recruits young Arabs by means ol religious indoctrination. Many are willing to pertorm suicide bombings in the name ol ths movement. 
• When the intifada (holy war) broke out. Islamic Jihad members played an Important role in mass demonstrations and commen::ial strikes in ths territories. 
Ham as 
The main rival of the Palestine Ubaration Organization In the Gaza Strip, lhll Islamic fundam.ntallst group shares the main goel of creetlng a PaleoUnlan atata. A look II Hames: 


Ill Hamas appeared lor the first time in 1978, ragistering In Gaza as a non-profit organization cellad tha Mujam'a. 
II Uwas founded by SheikhhAhmed Yassin after lha start olthe intifada, or uprisinQ aQainsllsraeli rule in tha West Bank and Gaza Stlip, 
Ill Hamas's ideology combines pan·Arab religious principles with Palastinlan nationalistic elms, contending thsl the soli ot all Palestina is aWak1 (Muslim holy pr0p1111y) thsl belongs to lha Muslims (Qrever. 
• The organization's ultimate goal is ths lonmation of one great Islamic state. They oppose peace with Israel. 
Ill Terror attacks have been carried OtJI by thair underground wing, tzzedine AI· Oassam. 
API Wm. J. Castello 


Stewart denies reports of quitting 
LONDON 

Next time, Rod, just say "I Don't 
Want to Talk About It." That way you 
won't have to explain, "I Was Only 
Joking." Rod Stewart said Monday 
that a newspaper reporter misunder­
stood when he quoted the rock star as 
saying he might quit show business at 
the end of his next concert tour, which 
starts in Scotland in June. "As I re­
member it, I was asked if I was going to retire and I said 
one of these days, yes," Stewart said. He acknowledged 
the misunderstanding may have been the result of one 
too many beers. "To be absolutely honest, I had a few 
bevvies yesterday afternoon," he told reporters in Glas­
gow. The Sun said Stewart, 50, disclosed his intention to 
retire as he took a break Sunday with his wife, model 
Rachel Hunter, in the French Mediterranean resort of 
Cannes. The gravel-voiced rocker started his career as a 
blues singer in the 1960s. He became one of rock's lead­
ing male sex symbols. 

U.S. tops in production of waste 
WASHINGTON 

This country probably produces more waste than any 
other in history, a private group says. A study of the en­
vironment in nine of the world's leading industrial coun­
tries found the situation worse in all of them over the 
past two decades -most of all in France, and least in 
Denmark. "The United States is arguably the most 
wasteful -that is, waste-generating -society in human 
history." said the report made public Monday by the 
National Center for Economic Alternatives, a private 
group funded by American foundations. This is due to 
the huge size of the U.S. economy. For example, 
American families and small business produce 180 mil­
lion metric tons of city waste a year, more than all the 
countries of western Europe together. The report took 
official statistics from the nine countries on 21 different 
causes of change in the environment, including emissions 
from autos and factories and the use of chemical fertiliz­
ers by farmers. It combined the figures to produce a sin­
gle "Index of Environmental Trends." 
Atlanta 89 59 Dallas 76 57 New Orleans 81 69 Baltimore 52 43 Denver 23 22 New York 56 34 Boston 50 30 Los Angeles 79 57 Philadelphia 55 41 Chicago 38 32 Miami 86 68 Phoenix 74 51 Columbus 49 35 Minneapolis 38 32 St. Louis 81 44 
Accent Eric Ruethling Jenny Gunzelman Graphics 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday excepr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Tuesday, April 11, 1995 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
• CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
CLC discusses plans for recreational areas 


Bryk: School reform needed 
By AMY SCHMIDT Assistant News Editor 
Plans for the recreational ar­eas which are outlined for the Burke Memorial Golf Course will be made available at the next Campus Life Council (CLC) meeting, according to Student Body President Jonathan Patrick. 
In the first CLC meeting of the new presidential term, Patrick and other council members expressed concern about the areas near the golf course that will be available to students after the construction of Keough and O'Neill Halls. 
Reverend George Rozum, rector of Alumni Hall, said that South Quad will be in need of recreational areas after the construction, especially for sports such as soccer and foot­ball. South Quad Senator Seth Miller also said that many stu­dents are already concerned with construction plans for the golf course. 
"Many students have been asking, 'What are all these bulldozers doing here?'," said Miller. " It is the CLC's job to promote a spirit of openness and cooperation." 
Assistant Vice President for Hesident Life Bill Kirk told the council that plans are already available, and a subsequent meeting will be planned with Mike Smith, director of facili­ties and operations, to address any further concerns. 
Patrick also updated the council on the progress of the GLND/SMC Ad Iloc Committee. 
"This group (CLC) has been instrumental in the creation of this body," Patrick said. 
He said that an interim report will presented on May 1, although it is not clear at this time whether the report will be available campus-wide or just to faculty members. 
Patrick went on to address the issue of football ticket ex­change. In the last CLC meet­ing, council members dis­cussed the possibility of expanding a ticket exchange program which was used for last season's Navy game. The exchange allowed students to trade in a student ticket for a 
G.A. ticket. 
Patrick said that the CLC will talk with William Scholl, direc­tor of ticketing and marketing, to reach a decision about the exchange. 
"Hopefully, we can finalize something for the fall next year," Patrick said. 
CLC also opened the floor to any suggestions for next year's agenda. Among the suggestions are increased permanent study space and availability of less expensive, on-campus sites for dances. Patrick also suggested adding service mod­ules/experiential learning mod­ules to the Freshman Year of Studies Program. 
Patrick said he is optimistic about the future, and hopes that the new CLC will build on the great working relationship of last year's council. 
"CLC is a place where great things can happen," said Patrick. 

Localism urged as vitalization for schools 
By MARK HUFFMAN News Writer 
Democratic localism needs to be used as a tool for the vital­ization of the public school sys­tems, said Dr. Anthony Bryk, a sociology professor from the University of Chicago, who spoke yesterday at the Center for Social Concerns on Equity and Excellence in America's Urban Schools in the final lec­ture of the 1995 Visiting Schol­ars Series. 
Bryk, acting as co-director of the Consortium on Chicago School research, played a key role in the reform of the Chicago Public School system. Starting in 1989, he led the charge against stagnating pub­lic schools in Chicago, the third-largest public school sys­tem in the country. 
Bryk began his lecture by ad­dressing the idea that over the last fifteen years, all aspects of American schools have been fundamentally challenged, ranging from the new course requirements to increased teacher preparedness. 
This reflection on, what Bryk said is a presently poor situa­tion, has forced the public to wonder if this widespread fail­ure can be attributed to factors outside the schools. 
Bryk, the Director of the Center for School Improvement at the University of Chicago, defined it as an open system, and he offered possible solu­tions to improve the schools' interaction with their environ­ments. 

Among the multiple other theories that have been sup­ported by the federal govern­ment and other nationwi'de school officials, Bryk has devel­oped his own reform for Chicago -"one that embraces the principles of democratic lo­calism as a lever for institu­tional renewal." 
Bryk currently acts as the consultant to the General Superintendent for revising research and evaluation func­tions of the Chicago Public Schools. 
Intrinsically, his theory fo­cuses on numerous goals, all of which, if adopted, should cul­minate into a healthier learning environment, according to Bryk. 
First, Bryk's reforms called for the establishment of local school councils (LSC) that have actual power within the infras­tructure, which aim to expand local participation. 
Bryk, also, called for a "reshaping of the principalship wherein performance contracts are subject to Local School Council review" rather than the more traditional tenure. The principals' authority over their building and staff also needs to be increased so as to add flexi­bility to their decisions. 
This recasting of the princi­palship must alter the position to be more horizontally-orient­ed, rather than having the principals reservedly looking to their superiors for approval in their actions, as they had in the past, Bryk said. 
Other changes fundamental to Bryk's plan are the increase of teacher influence in the classroom through greater par­ent-teacher relationships, the redirection of school fiscal resources, the decentralization of the central office for the en­tire school system, and a more central pull toward academic improvement. 
By studying the various poli­tics and approaches for each school, Bryk found correlations between positive school results with decentralized politics and systemic plans for success. 
Surprisingly, though, his studies also showed a relative weakness between the school's basic characteristics and the school's performance levels, stressing commitment and ef­fort instead as keys to the school's future. 
Eventually, Bryk said he hopes to receive "social support for fundamental changes," through the increased interac­tion with the community in or­der to challenge the status quo and move forward. 
Bryk sees colleges and uni­versities in the nearby area extending toward these improved, decentralized schools, since interaction with students would be easier. 
This key consequence to Bryk's reforms -increased suc­cess in secondary education -is his ultimate goal. 
Bryk is a noted scholar on Catholic education, publishing "Catholic Schools and the Com­mon Good," which won the Willard Waller Award for the finest sociological research in book form. He is also working on a forthcoming book on the Chicago School Reform Act. 
CAMPUS EGG HUNT WEDNESDAY, APRIL 12, 1995 Find an egg and return·it to the STUDENT GOVERNMENT Office in Lafortune. You may have won QQ egg§ QQ (Ce]]eiDltt prizes!! (Diskman, Cordless Phone, Gift Certificates and more!) SPONSORED BY THE '95-'96 STUDENT GOVERNMENT ~~ IACTION I[]1m STUDENT GOVERNMENT  

page4 


Elections 
continued from page 1 
ning in Holy Cross Hall. One Holy Cross ticket is that of Pa­tricia Osan (president), Julia Kalgren (vice-president), Betsy· LaMora (secretary), and Marin Shaughnessy (treasurer). This group's platform includes a video library, regular trips to nursing homes, a possible ~ardi Gn.ts trip to New Or­leans, and more. If this group is elected, it would' "get a sur­vey out immediately so that the officers of the dorm know exactly what Holy Cross resi­dents want," Osan said. 
The Emily Broussard (presi­dent), Anne Geisler (vice presi­dent), Jessica Reimers (secre­tary), and Eileen Newell (trea­surer) ticket is also running in Holy Cross. One of the high­lights of this ticket includes Notre Dame sister dorms to improve relations between the campuses. This ticket also strives for a xerox machine in the lobby, an all hall welcoming brunch to introduce freshmen, and cable for the lobby televi­sion. 
The Alaina Higginbotham (president), Caroline Blum (vice president), Megan Driscoll (sec­retary), and Amy Laws (trea­surer) ticket stresses resident uriily, hall improvements (i.e. exercise room in the parlor), social activities, and com­munity service. Higginbotham's ticket hopes to unite the main 

The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 

platform. "We hope to get more people involved in Regina func­tions and to boost dorm unity," Capretta said. 
The Lara Becker (president), Delilah Welch (vice president), Jennifer Slicott (secretary), and Meghan Theard (treasurer) ticket is also running in hopes to capture a Regina victory. "One of our goals is to offer our own orientation for the fresh­man and transfer students of Regina Hall at the beginning of next year," Becker said. 
The McCandless Hall ticket consists of Kimberly Fleming (president), Courtney O'Rourke (vice president). Erin Johnson (secretary), and Cindy Kielkucki (treasurer). One of the ideas of the Fleming plat­form is a First Aid/CPR class. "This is something everyone should know about and since students aren't often given the opportunity to learn about it, we thought it could be an edu­cational experience. It would also serve to bring McCandless residents together," Fleming said. 
A new addition to the resi­dence hall elections this year is the ticket of senior students that will represent the fourth floor of Holy Cross Hall. This ticket includes Betsy Killian (president), Heather Durie (vice president), Kelly McDevitt (sec­retary). and Paullette Raczkowski (treasurer). 
"Our goal is to make a suc­cess of this first year of the senior floor in Holy Cross," Killian said. 


Malloy 
continued from page 1 

commission by 10 other distin­guished leaders in education, law, politics, business, athletics and medicine, including Thomas Labrecque, chairman and chief executive officer of the Chase Manhattan Bank and a member of Notre Dame's Board of Trustees. 
Father Malloy has been actively involved nationally and locally in the fight against sub­stance abuse. Formerly a member of President Bush's Drug Advisory Committee, he also has served with the Com­munity Anti-Drug Coalitions of America, the National Citizens Commission on Alcoholism, and Governor Evan Bayh's Commission for a Drug-Free Indiana. He is the founder of the St. Joseph County (Ind.) Coalition Against Drugs. 
Father Malloy was elected 
Notre Dame's 16th president in 
1987 and now is in his second 
five-year term. 

Tuesday, April11, 1995 
dent). Julie Patton (secretary), and Maryann Schwoyer (trea­surer) ticket stresses volunteer and service projects in their 

Co.stA ~ieA 
Vacation while learning Spanish 
lbinking about what to do with your summer
floors with the "T's". "Holy 
Why not spend it in a tropical
Cross has a lot of potential to 
location. doing som<.1hing that you can justifybecome a unified dorm and 
to your parents7l~•m Splllllshlwhile we hope to continue what 
The Institute for Spanish Language
previous tickets have done, we 
Studies has S different Total
hope to expand on the efforts of 
Immersion Schools to choose from.
those tickets," Higginbotham 
Live with a Costa Rican family and
said. 
study with students from all around the 
The Regina Hall competition 
world. With different locations and 
is between two tickets. The Amy Capretta (president), 
guaranteed! Call Now !I/
Cathy Eisenhauer (vice presi­



ISLS 
1-800-765-0025 ;f._' ft..· 
~ ~, 
ll't'ftU....... 

CHEM 
FIN 
MATH 
DART  
CQURSES ADDED  
535 01  #4435  -Medical Chemistry; 3 cr. hrs.; M 12:15-01:30; and T 08:00-09:15  
~HANGES  J  I  
476 01  #0600  -Change prerequisite to:  "FIN 231" only  
261 01  #1485  -Change time to:  MWF 01:15-02:05  

CLQSED SECTIQNS AS QF 7:!U! P,M. il1019S 
AFAM ANTH ARCH ARCH ARCH CAPP COTH ENGL ENGL ENGL ENGL ENGL ENGL ENGL 
FIN 
HIST 494 310 443 543 565 380 435A 301 4158 416 416F 427E 
492 
495A 
473 
353A 01 01 03 04 01 01 01 02 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 458A 474A 410 695 695 695 695 486 220 226 243 246 
3466  HIST  
3486  HIST  
0128  liPS  
2731  LAW  
2756  LAW  
2533  LAW  
3525  LAW  
3538  MI  
3549  MUS  
4080  MUS  
4081  PHIL  
3556  PHIL  
3571  PHIL  
3573  PHIL  
1285  PSY  
3627  THTR  

247 261 423 276 
01  3080  
01  2979  
01  4068  
01  4106  
02  1420  
05  1423  
06  0572  
01  3776  
01  2456  
01  1574  
01  3941  
01  1652  
01  3283  
02  0531  
01  3923  
56  9756  








former Democratic Governor of Texas 

Wednesday, Aprill9, at 7:30pm in Washington Hall Tickets are available at the LaFortune 
Info Desk students $3, public $5 
Sponsored by the Office of Student Activities 
HEY! 
THE OBSERVER NEWS DEPT. WANTS YOU! We need a NEws CoPY EDITOR 
Interested, 
Submit a one page statement of intent & a resume 
to Dave Tyler by Wed, April11 Questions? Call Dave@ 4~1200 or 1~5323 

r--------------------------------------------~----­
Tuesday, April 11, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Representation outlined for 'new democracies' 
Lijphant makes government 
. 

comparzsons 
By MORRIS KARAM 
N~wsWriter 
When governments are cre­ated, governing power should not be sacrificed for propor­tional representation, accord­ing to Professor Arend Lijphant of the University of California at San Diego. 
In his speech entitled, "Constitutional Choices for New Qemocracies," Lijphant com­pared the parliamentarian and presidential democratic sys­tems of government. 
"New democracies have to make a number of choices as they move towards democracy and must not forget that the 
We are. 

800/865.,7737 
government they create should be governed effectively first and foremost," Lijphant said. 
When governments are cre­ated, the first decisions are the most crucial, according to Li­jphant. 
"Once governments are set up, countries tend to not make any big decisions, so their ini­tial ones are very important," Lijphant said. 
In comparing the electoral systems of parliamentarian and presidential systems, Lijphant concluded that parliamentary systems seem more represen­tative due to their greater num­ber of parties. 
"The voter turnout indicates that people in nations with par­liamentary systems of govern­ment feel stronger about being fully represented," Lijphant said. 
Conversely, Lijphant said that the presidential system is less 
REVIEW~­


The Answer To Standardized Tests 


Educadooal 


SEE YOUR FRIENDS EMBARRASS THEMSELVES FOR THE lAST TIME 
SENIOR ONE-ACT PLAYS TUESDAY, APRIL 11 WASHINGTON HALL 7:30p.m. Admission Price: $2.00 Benefiting the Beeler-Hipp Memorial Scholarship Purchase at the door or at the LaFortune Information Desk 
All are welcome 
The movies as they were meant to be: Classic films. Big screen. Bargain prices. 
Tuesday,Aprilll,l:30 and 7:30p.m. James Stewart Kim Novak in Alfred Hitchcock's 
VERTIGO 
To say that Vertigo finds Hitchcock at his most obsessive, his most perverse and his sexual best doesn't begin to convey how very haunting-
or bizarre-this film is. Police detective I 
Stewart must overcome both a nasty fear of heights and an obsession with Novak in a truly eerie tale of passion. One of Hitchcock's best. 
representative because it puts a great deal of power in the hands of one party. 
"When choices are made, they may not be made for what is best for the constituents but for what is best tor that party in power," Lijphant said. 
Nevertheless, Lijphant be­lieves that there is a tradeoff between good representation and good government. 
"A presidential, or plural sys­tem, of government produces a single party majority able to make quick decisions," Lijphant said. 
On the other hand, Lijphant sees slower decisions to possi­bly prove better in the long run. 
"Maybe it is more important for the policies that government makes to be steady and thought out instead of quick so that they will have greater public sup­port and last longer," Lijphant said. 


• SEcuRIT'Y'aar·, ,.,.:,·JW\9' · 


8:43 p.m. A Morriss.ey Hall resident .

FRI., APRIL 7 

was transported by Securlty to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a sports7:1S p.m. A Farley Hall resldentre· 
inJutY.

ported vandalism to her vehicle while parked In the 0-o2 parking lot. SUN., APRIL 9 
2:37 a.m. An Alumni Hall resident was
SAT., APRIL 8'' 

transported by Security to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a lacera· 
5:14a.m. A Breen~Philllps resident was lion. transported by Security to St. Joseph 4:09 p.m. Am off·oampus student was Medical Center for tr~~ent of .. ry·· transported to St. Joseph Medical Center suataln~ during a flll!,~,bi',)~ ;~· . ·· ' for treatment of a sports Injury. 
'~)Jy-. 

11:57 a.m. A visitor was transport~ to 5:30p.m. A visitor reported the theft of St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a cellular phone from her vehicle while an injury sustained during a fall. parked In the C·01 parking lot. 
·7;:'~.m~ A St~~,~~f11 H~ii r re· '·· :'t::ei~i~~.m; A vi$/~;· reported the theft of ported receiving harassing telephone her purse from her vehicle while parked In calls. the Red East parking lot 
HAVE A HAPPY 21ST 
FERN!! 
YOU DESERVE 
IT! 




JOIN THE SPECIAL PROJECTS COMMISSION! 
GET INVOLVED WITH STUDENT GOVERNMENT TO ORGANIZE THE CAMPUS-WIDE 
RUMMAGE SALE OR HELP CONVERT WVFI TO AN FM STATION. 
Stop by STUDENT GOVERNMENT office to pick up information on how you can be a part of the action! Jackson Walser 4 x 3049 

Murders connected to CIA 
ByTOMRAUM Associated Pr~ss 
WASHINGTON 
The White House insisted today that an investigation of alleged CIA links to murders in Guatemala be "unsparing 
in uncov­ering all relevant facts." 
In partic­u I a r , President Clinton wants to 

know if Clinton there was any U.S. involvement "directly or indirectly" in the slayings, according to a memorandum from National Security Adviser Anthony Lake to the head of an inves­tigatory panel. 
At issue are allegations that the CIA had a Guatemalan colonel on its payroll who was involved in the killing of an American citizen and a guerilla leader married to an American woman. 
Clinton on March 30 ordered a government-wide review of the matter by the Intelligence Oversight Board. 
Today, the White House released a memorandum by Lake to Anthony Harrington, chairman of the oversight panel, specifying which questions the presi­dent wants answered by the inquiry. 


~-~ -­
VIEWPOINT 
page 6 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucas Managing Editor Business Manager Suzanne Fry Joseph Riley 

News Editor ············~··················David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ....................... Ryan Malayter Sporu Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Galla van Photo Editor .................................. Rob Finch Observer Marketing Director ...•...... Pete Coleman Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of eidter institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, leners and Inside Columns present the views of ilie authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor /Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu l;;eneral Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
• YEAH, BABY, You'o DIG IT THE Mosr••• 
The gypsies are not operating the way World RV Center, located in Elkhart, they used to. They are no longer boasts that 90-year-olds, Buddy and immune to the modern world. It's not Florence Schultz in matching powder for lack of romantic dreams. Gypsies blue jumpsuits, have enjoyed the RV can he found all over the world, yet here lifestyle for over 26 years. in the United States they live differently Thinking about the Schultzs, I can't than they did hundreds of years ago, help envisioning my own 85-year-old when they first made their appearance grandmother speeding around in a in Europe. The survival of nomadic 25,000 pound RV. This is a woman who Gypsies in our urbanized society has can hardly drive a Toyota in reverse. depended on one item -recreational That's when I questioned Betty, a vehicles otherwise known as RVs. Holiday World RV sales consultant, of 

the type of drivers license needed to operate the standard RV. Betty, with 
fuchsia polyester pants and a toothy grin 
informed me that anyone with a stan­
dard license is legal to drive an RV.

Kara 
Thinking about granny, this is a rather 
frightening fact. 
Yet, when I checked out the interior of 
Holiday World's RVs, I understood 
what might inspire granny to purchase a 
RV of her own. RVs contain all the com­
forts of modern living on wheels. 

Perhaps "roughing it" with a campfire Today's RVs enjoy features such as a and no toilet paper didn't appeal to ceiling fan, refrigerators with ice mak­many Americans, because the RV busi­ers, combination washers and dryers, ness grew by five percent in 1994, and color T.V.s in both the living and reporting its highest sales since 1978. bedroom areas. The spectacle of a vehi­And it should be added that nearly 60 cle with these options is breath taking to percent of the worlds RVs are produced say the least. The 1996 model is even in Indiana (front page of the tourist rumored to have a doorbell. brochures no doubt), with the majority With all the features of a home in the of manufacturers located in nearby suburbs, RVs are quickly gaining recog­Elkhart County. nition as full time dwellings. Thus, 
It's quite a shift in Gypsy living when Jayco, the biggest name in the RV middle aged Americans seeking a more industry, has identified "full-time" passionate way of life are buying RV'ers (a full-timer is one who lives in a "alumaframes" often complete with RV year round) in their advertising cam­hydraulic slide-out rooms. It wasn't so paigns with the look of Norman long ago that baby boomers grew up Rockwell paintings. I would say this is a camping in the 1960s campaigning for good analogy considering the shift in simplicity. Ironically many of the same American living seems to be away from generation who want to share camping community and more towards personal experiences with their children, are independence. Actually, Rockwell, helping to spur the RV market . whose paintings usually portray homey 
However, it's not as though the RV incidents, might be commissioned to market is only swarming with recon­paint the full-time RV'er life if he were structed sixties types. Elderly radicals alive today. The Schultzs, no doubt, come to mind when identifying the aver­would be farmers. age RV consumer. In fact, Holiday Taking care of a RV that's roughly the 
Pavlik 

size of a small apartment is a challenge the experts at Holiday World wisely avoid discussing. Most RVs contain not only a full kitchen, but also a full bath. To accommodate for no built in plumb­ing, RVs have a "holding tank" with the capacity to hold 64 gallons of water, 32 fresh and 32 not so fresh. The not so fresh water must be treated with chemi­cals on a daily basis and emptied (I'm not exactly sure where) every other day. Holiday World's RV brochure features the Schultzs intently looking at hoses hooked-up to a metal box in their RV. When I questioned whether the average consumer could handle routine RV maintenance, Betty pointed to the cap­tion under the photo which read, "Your personal technician will instruct you on the proper operation of every system ... " For the price of one of these RVs (rough­ly $90,000 for a basic model), Betty should be included. 
But responsibilities such as "tank duty" seem to be overlooked by fanatic RV'ers who are set off by the notion of a mighty highway, and whatever's waiting at the other end. Like Gypsies, RV'ers are wanders searching for freedom, seeking to fulfill adolescent yearnings ­for this they can't be blamed. It was Betty who stressed that serious RV own­ers require "Gypsy blood" and "the RV life is not for those who can't stand not having roots." I agree that it takes a free-spirit to invest in a RV. However, it's hard not to have roots when the RV holds everything but the kitchen sink (that's already included). 
During a resent visit to Holiday World, Betty pointed out a model that was more in my price range. It was a pre-owned 1973 Pace priced at $3,522 with the sticker reading "unit as is." The high­light of this RV (which actually looked more like a giant ice machine on wheels, gravely different than the sophisticated models that I had previewed earlier) was a hand painted tire cover on the vehicles' back side which read "Where the Eagles Soar." Suddenly I envisioned myself, on the open road living the Gypsy life, behind the wheel of my own RV -with a painting of the Schultzs above my mobile mantle. 
Kara Pavlik is a junior at Saint Mary's majoring in Humanistic Studies and Communications. She can be reached via e-mail at: pavl7087@jade_saint­marys.edu 

• llOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 

ACC~NT 
Tuesday, April 11, 1995 page 7 
• HELPING HANDS 
Seniors choose a life of service 
Graduate school? Corporate America? Every year, more Notre Dame seniors are shunning these traditional routes for programs such as Holy Cross Associates. the Peace Corps, and Alliance for Catholic Education. This is the first oftwo articles highlighting those "helping hands" who will take part in the Senior Volunteer Send-off on May '!~ 
20, 1995. 
By CAROLYN WILKENS 
Accent Writer 
S
ervice work is not sim­ply an occasional vol­unteer commitment for senior Katie Glynn; it's an integral part of her life. Katie insists that the way to true service goes beyond the programs themselves. She speaks with clarity about her understanding of ser­viee as a "life commitment" a'nd looks positively to the post-graduation future, when she will become a full­time volunteer at Andre House, a Holy Cross organization in Phoenix, Arizona dedicated to provid­ing hope to the hopeless. 
From what she has read and from her own personal experiences with service, Katin began to think of ser­vice as something much more permanent. 
"I think of [service! as more of a lifestyle, or the way you choose to live," says Katie. 
As a student at Notre Dame, Katie has volun­teered in a variety of pro­grams, including an intern­ship at the Center for the llomeless. She has also worked at the Center for Social Concerns for the past tbree years. 
Katie already had the chance to become acquaint­ed with Andre !louse when she lirst spent time at the site for her summer service project. The experience had enough of a positive impact on her that when consider­ing her service options after graduation, Andre House became a natural choice. 
"What attracted me to 
Andre House was that I 
wasn't going to be living 
with people who were the 
same. Living in the commu­
nity with the homeless, we 
share responsibilities, we 
share struggles, joys, mass 
together, we eat together," 
she says. 
"I would delinitely focus on the relationships as the most important part of it, and also the biggest chal­lenge. It's not a year off for me, it's like this is the way I ehoose to Jive. And whether it's at Andre House or living in the community with the family I'll have, it's going to be a lifelong commitment." 

Katie Glynn 

Brad Hunter 
F
or his post-graduation plans, Brad Hunter looks across the Atlantic to Europe where he plans to use his German language skills to work as a missionary and administer to the needs of ethnic minorities. 
Brad first learned about International Teams, his chosen service program, after doing some research on his own time and writing to about thirty Christian organizations based in the United States. From the information they sent him, he was able to make his decision about which ser­vice program to pursue. International Teams is a 2 year or longer program made up ·of about 350 mis­sionaries in 24 countries. As a volunteer next year in either Austria or Germany, Brad will be working with the displaced people, "tend­ing to the physical and spiri­tual needs of ethnic minori­ties." 
As a German and Government major with a concentration in European Studies, Brad feels that he has received the right kind of training to be prepared for the challenges he will face overseas. His involve­ment as co-president of Notre Dame's German Club also keeps him internation­ally aware. 
"I did explore domestic service programs," he admits, "but I just felt called in this area. I have a love for the culture, a love for the language, a love for the people there." 
A deeply religious person, Brad believes that searching "for God's will" was what led him to consider service after graduation, and says that the book that influences him the most is the Bible. According to Brad, service work goes hand in hand with religion. 
"There's no doubt in my mind that Notre Dame has been a tremendous experi­ence for me," he says. "One element of the Catholic church which I've fallen in love with is this idea of putting your religion into practice. You know, actions speak louder than words." 
W 
en Estela Apolinar 
peaks about her 
ervice work with the Hispanic communities of South Bend, her voice takes on a charged quality and the importance of service becomes obvious. 
Estela plans on working in the Southwest with Hispanic migrant workers and their families. Estela, who speaks fluent Spanish, hopes to learn more about her cul­ture, her religion, and her­self. 
As president of CASH, a service organization at Notre Dame dedicated to the needs of the local Hispanic community, Estela has vol­unteered her time at each of the different branches of the program. On Tuesday nights, she works with El Buen Vecino as a Spanish translator at a South Bend health clinic for non-English speaking patients and their families. At other times, she volunteers at Clay Middle School tutoring ESL stu­dents, and also teaches a citizenship class. 
"These people are so grateful just to have some­one talk to them and tell them what medicine they need," she explains. "No one there speaks English, and they're afraid to ask for help." 
Estela, whose grandpar­ents were born in Spain and parents grew up in Mexico, credits her family for encouraging her to help oth­ers through service work. 
"I obviously have Hispanic ties, but I haven't really been exposed to the migrant workers," she says. "They share a lot of things I share, but I've been fortunate. They have no stability in their lives. I have had the opportunity to go to Notre Dame through the help of others; otherwise I wouldn't be here." 
She continues. "I think when we stop giving, we stop living. It's important that we give something. Whether it be money or donations or time. If you think about it, a year is not a long time if you consider what you're going to do with the rest of your life. You have many years ahead of you, and you're only young once. " 

Estela Apolinar Curtis Plaza 

C
urtis Plaza dreams of 
becoming a doctor 
after graduation. He also dreams of becoming a lawyer. Thirdly and per­haps most importantly, Curtis dreams of helping people. That is why he has decided to take a year off doing service work. For Curtis. however, it is not simply a year off. 
"I always make the mis­take of saying 'Yeah, I'm taking a year off after graduation to do a year of service,"' explains Curtis, "but no, it's a job. It's not really designed to be a vaca­tion. It's very much contin­ued learning. It's work. Most of these places are at least 9 to 5 jobs, and it's dif­ficult work: working with the poor, and possibly in sit­uations that might be frus­trating." 
Yet, this is a challenge which he is excited to take on. Curtis is ready for a new experience, in which he could possibly make a posi­tive difference in people's lives, Jearn more about the legal profession through his service program, and also find time to think about what he really wants to do with his life. 
While at Notre Dame as a pre-med student, Curtis gained some experience in the medical field by working as a medical aide on the football lield. Towards the end of his junior year, he began to consider law school as a possible career, and the different options it could represent to him. With a little research and the help of the Center for Social Concerns, Curtis came up with three service programs which he felt would give him the chance to help peo­ple, and also offer him some experience and insight into the legal field. 
"At Notre Dame, every­
thing is kind of peachy keen, 
but at the real level where 
the poor are concerned, 
they've been stepped on by 
a lot of different people and 
organizations, including the 
government." 

"My motivations are two­
fold. I would like to serve 
underprivileged people and 
realize how I can best serve 
them, especially in a 
career." 

Persons interested in exploring post-graduation service opportunities or those who have already decided that they are going to participate in a year or two ofservice after graduation are urged to contact Mary Ann Roemer at the Center for .'-iocial Concerns to take part in the Senior Volunteer Send-off on May 20. All photos courtesy of Brandon Candura. 
• MEDICAL MINUTE 
Dippers and chewers beware By RYAN J. GRABOW N11.tionally Rcgistefed Emergency Medical Technician 
Do you carry around an empty Snapple bottle or Coke can to use as a spittoon? Is the impression of a tin worn into the back pocket of your favorite pair of jeans? Can you and your friends imitate the "Dueling Banjos" from Deliverance when you're packing a tin? If you can answer yes to any of these questions, your "nasty little habit'' may be a potentially fatal flaw in your personality. Many of you may have questions about this habit you started in high school ball or possibly even little league; others of you may think you know it all. Whatever the case, check below to see if you know .•. 
Are Dipping and Chewing as addictive 
. as Smoking? 
Unfortunately, the answer is yes! Even though chewing and dipping de\iver nico­tine, the addictive drug in tobacco, through a different route than cigarette, cigar. and pipe smoke, smokeless tobacco products contain and deliver more nico­tine than any other form of tobacco. An average size chew or dip held in your mouth for 30 minutes gives you as much nicotine as smoking four cigarettes, while a two~tin-a·week dipper gets as much nicotine as a 1 112 pack a day smoker. This high concentration of nicotine is what makes it so difficult for chewers and dippers to "kick the habit." 
Are Dipping and Chewing safer than 
Smoking? 

When comparing these habits to smok· ing, many like to claim they are "safe" because stnokeless tobacco does not con­tain tar and carbon monoxide, the most harmful ingredients in tobacco smoke. These people are under the assumption that since no one gets lung cancer from chewing or dipping they are safe forms of tobacco use. HOWEVER, when you con­sider the incidence of mouth cancer, throat cancer, gum disease, heart disease. and strokes among the 1~ million Americans who use smokeless tobacco, it's easy to see that chewing and dipping are definitely NOT a safe alternative to smoking! 
What Danger Signs Should I Look For? 
One of the most serious problems asso· ciated with dipping and chewing are white patches and sores inside the mouth. These leathery white patches develop where the tobacco comes in contact with the gum and cheek, and are caused by the cancerwcausing chemicals in the tobacco. Over time these white patches can devel­op into mouth cancer, so one must view them as a warning sign of a potentially fatal condition. In a recent study of over 400 major and minor league players, white patches were found in 69% of those who used two to three cans of dip per week. If you chew or dip you should in­spect your teeth and gums regularly for damage. White patches, red sores that do not heal, or a lump on your cheek, tongue, or gums should be viewed as a warning sign and prompt you to see your doctor or dentist right away. 
Chewing and dipping are definitely tough habits to quit, but the necessity of quitting should be quite apparent ­mouth and throat cancer can be t'atal! If' you catch it in time, you may gt~t lucky and only lose part of your tongue, lip, or cheek. To truly comprehend the dangers you face, stop by the Office of Alcohol and Drug Awareness in LaFortune and ask for the booklet "Beat the Smokeless Habit." The pictures inside will help you see just what you're up against! Good Luck and Stay Healthy! 
Comments or Suggestions e-mail: Ryan.J.Grabow. I @nd.edu 
page 8 Tuesday, Aprilll, 1995 

Harris leading Lakers back to ~layoffs 
By BETH HARRIS 
Associated Press 
INGLEWOOD, 'Calif. 

Seven games into the season, Vlade Divac went to owner Jerry Buss with a bold predic­tion: The Los Angeles Lakers will win the NBA champi­onship. 
Divac and his young team­mates are doing their best to make it a reality for Buss and first-year coach Del Harris after the debacle of last season. 
The Lakers are 47-28 and al­ready have clinched a playoff berth. They had won seven straight at the Forum and 15 of their last 19 overall until losing 101-87 to the Western Conference-leading San Antonio Spurs on Sunday night. 
They are a season-high-tying 20 games above .500 for the second time, and are on pace to win 52 games or more. Only Dallas, which is on track to im­prove by an NBA-high 24 games this season, can top the Lakers' 19-game turnaround. 
"Big difference is last year at this time I knew I'm not going to playoffs, now I'm going to playoffs," Divac said. 
After failing to make the playoffs last season for the first time in 17 years, this season looked like a rebuilding year. 
Instead, the Lakers are win­ning with three veterans and a bunch of youngsters who have no more than five years' NBA experience among them. 
"I think a lot of people still don't believe in us," second­year guard Nick Van Exel said. "I really don't know what it takes, but hopefully we can surprise some people in the playoffs." 
The Lakers finished 33-49 last season under three differ­ent coaches. 
Magic Johnson lasted 16 games, long enough to discover he didn't want to coach players he later ripped for having self­ish attitudes and an unwilling­ness to work hard. 
Harris has gotten better re­sults with some of the same players, including a renewed Divac. Also making solid con­tributions are Cedric Ceballos, who returned to his native Los Angeles in a trade with Phoenix, and rookie Eddie Jones. 
Ceballos is averaging 18.8 points and 6.6 rebounds since returning from thumb surgery 11 games ago. At various times, seven different Lakers have been on the injured list, including Jones, who has since returned to the starting lineup. 
def. First Round 
def. Rn Asian li4 · Guys by forfeit 3 oth!!!t gu..,s who live to · Wax. AJax, 6. Mr. Clean 
Moe's Tavern bY 

If you see sports happening~ 
call The Observer at l-4543 .. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at rhe Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. ar 309 Haggar College Cenrer. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Found: Ring on 4th floor Stanford  AA CRUISE SHIPS HIRING! EARN  OFF CAMPUS NXT. YR?  I STILL NEED YOU!  Bonnie·  
NOTICES  during the weekend of April 1st. Call Scott at 2003 to claim.  BIG$$$+ FREE WORLD TRAVEL (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII,  FOR SALE-ON. SIZE SET W/FRAME, 3 DRESSERS, SOFA,  Larry is still looking for a ride to Tennessee for Easter Break.  The Top Five Things That 'PLS'  
.....................................  ETC.) SUMMER/PERMANENT, NO EXPER. NEC. GUIDE. (919)929·  COMP. DESK, DORM FRIDGE, COFFEE/END TABLES, GAS  Knoxville is ideal, Nashville is acceptable. If you are going any·  Stands for:  
ATIENTIONII  Found: faded blue Irish cap. Looks  4398 ext. C1082.  GRILL, MORE CALL CHRIS @  where near those cities this break,  5. Pre-Law School  
ST. EDWARD'S CARNIVAL  pretty scummy· must be significant.  273·2070  please call Larry at 634·3597. Will  4. Pretty Low Standards  
is APRIL 29th!  Found at McClure's car wash on  ALASKA SUMMER JOBS ·Very  share gas. tolls, expenses.  3. Pathetic Liberal Scholars  
If you would like to  Edison and Ironwood. Rudy 233·  High Earnings Potential with over  '79 BMW 4 spd. It just keeps  2. Pretty Lousy Sex  
DANCE with TROOP ND  4008  8,000 openings! Students work on  going ... and going ... $1650 neg. Call  1. Pretentious Littls S·-s  
Start coming to classesll  fishing vessels and in onshore can·  for details X4923  ADOPTION ·A LOVING CHOICE  
Tuesdays, 8:00·9:00 p.m. @ 219 Rockne ?s CALL Melanie x4957 .......................................  WANTED Starting at $12/hrl The Princeton is  neries. No exp. necessary. Male/Female. Room/Board & Transportation often free. Call Student Employment Services for  TICKETS  Pediatrician and pediatric nurse happily married for seven years are hoping to share our love with a child. We love the outdoors, have  LOSE WEIGHT FOR SUMMER! After 3 kids, I lost 231bs., went from size 9 to a 3 in 8 weeks, w/o diets/drugs/exercise. All-natural  
looking for people to teach our test  Directory. (206)545·4155 ext  Need 2 grad tix for step-parents  comfortable home and country lake·  products, easy, guaranteed! Kelly  
!11!!11!!11111111!!!!11!1!!!!11111  preparation courses. If you've  A55841  Tanja 277·8594  side cottage. Will provide secure,  1·800·209·2150  
Senior One-Acts  earned a high score on the GMAT,  loving home with full time mom.  
Tues. April11, 1995 Washington Hall 7:30PM  MCAT, LSAT or GRE and would like to work 6·1 0 hrs per week, con· tact us at: (800)865·7737  FOR SALE  II  FOR RENT  Counseling and allowable expens· es. Call Kim or Mike at 1·800·469· 0559  Guitarist looking to start a band for next year. Searching for serious musicians that like to play a wide  
Admission:  $2.00  OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered  COLLEGE PARK CONDO:  variety of music ranging from  
Benefitting the Beeler·  at $85,900. First floor location.  For lease, 2 bd., 2 ba. furnished  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  Acid Jazz to Blues to Phish.  For  
Hipp Memorial  POSITION AVAILABLE:  Finished basement with full lavato·  unit, Alarm system. Avail. June 1st.  LaFortune Student Center  more info please call Dave at  
Scholarship  Student Advisor  ry. Two bedrooms and two baths on  Call: (818)441-1275  ..J Quick turn around time!!!  x1643.  
IIHIII!IIII!!!I!I!IIlltlll!lllllll  DUTIES INCLUDE: Counseling,  ground level. Lease back to owner  ..J Most orders completed  
advising and enrolling students;  through May, 1995. Call  **********NOTICE**••••••••••••  within 24 hours  
working at the front desk; answer·  (616)946·0700.  If you are interested in living at  ..J Free pick-up & delivery  SOPHOMORES»>  
Bridget's • Open 8:00 • 3:00  ing phones; keeping track of atten·  Turtle Creek next year, call Chris  to & from departments  Get involved in the  
Open·Tues •  dance sheets, records and con- Beautiful '90 Acura Integra LS  at 273·1399 as soon as possible.  ..J  Caii631·COPY  CLASS OF '97 MASS  
Wed ·Shady Elaine  tracts; organizing materials for daily  Coupe Ssp Champagne·Silver,AC  to be held at 2prn on SUNDAY  
Thurs·  classes, class ori11ntations and  power sunroof,spoiler, 55k miles  Rent NOW for Fall Semester·  April 23rd at the Grotto. We still  
Closed Fri & Sat  seminars; becoming very knowl·  $9200, '94 ND Grad in Chicago,  Completely remodeled home in  I'm driving 2 Iowa 4 Easter.  If U  need EUCHARISTIC MINISTERS,  
Open Monday • Specials  edgeable about our product.  must sell, but hate to part. Call  great student neighborhood.  need a ride call Ann X2563  LECTORS, ALTAR SERVERS, and  
HAPPY EASTER!  Responsibilities may also include  (312) 661·7278  Available to 5 students · 5 private  even HOMILISTS. We also need  
bookkeeping, proctoring for off·site  bedrooms, 2 full baths, washer and  HAPPY BIRTHDAY, MADDY!  vocal and instrumental MUSICIANS  
$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS$$  classes, and data entry.  Need furniture for next year? 4  dryer, large rec toom. Your own  Will party with you for your gradua·  very soon.  So please get involved  
Are you going to read those things  SKILLS REQUIRED: Excellent oral,  seniors @ Turtle have LOTS of  personal frat house. CALL NOW  lion.  
again? I think not. 2323·2342  telephone and written communica·  NICE furniture! Call for details:  277·0636  Love,  «<Call Brian x1058 ASAP.  
Pandora's Bks ND Ave & Howard  lion skills, good interpersonal and  277·7597  Nicole  
organizational skills; typing and  2 BDRM House. Wash/Dry  Don't Forget Sophomores ...  
ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAK·  computer skills. Able to work 15·20  WANT A CAR FOR NEXT YEAR?  Fireplace, Porch $520/mo. + util.  Jen,  The CLASS SERVICE PROJECT  
FAST, 35 MIN TO N.D. SPECIAL  hours per week.  '88 Nissan Sentra, Auto. AIC,  Grad. student pre!. 232·6079  To my Cinderella who I was  at the NE Neighborhood is going  
"OBSERVER" RATE $50/$60,  We are always looking for dedicat·  ONLY 65K, excellent condition,  not going to get romatically involved  strong but can always use new vol·  
FULL BREAKFAST. THE HOME·  ed people to join our fast-paced,  NEW paint job, $2000 or BO  OAK HILL aprtmnt. FOR RENT  with ... one year of magic.  unteers. Its a lot of fun • give it a try.  
SPUN COUNTRY INN, NAPPA·  exciting and motivated team for  CALL X1343  2 1/2 BDRM., 2 BTH, 219/273·6993  I love you.  We leave at 2:30pm and  
NEE, 219·773·2034.  afternoon, evening and weekend  Matt  3:30pm from Main Circle every  
shifts.  86 HONDA PRELUDE Sl  Wicker Park (Chicago) apt to  Wednesday and Friday, and return  
WORD PROCESSING, TAXES,  For further info or to obtain an appli·  red Sspd. Must sell.  sublet. May-Aug. 3 br. ND alums  at 4:30. Call Brian x1058.  
GIFTS. 256·6657 cation please call: Stacy CodyILOST & FOUND I Manager, 219·272·4135.  634·2475 For Sale: Roller Blades Like New: Bravoblades GL  seeking fellow ND tenants call Bridget 708·895·6918 HOMES FOR RENT NEAR  THE SECOND CITY IS COMING!!  ................ * * ••••••* ...... * •••••••••••••• Spend some time during AnTostal with underpriviledged kids!  
Black, Size7 1/2·8  CAMPUS  232·2595  
Lost: Set of keys on a soccer key·  $100 (Negotiable) includes wrist  The Sophomore Class will be  
chain. If you found them or returned  SENIORS • Looking for sales  guards Call Marty @ 271-1 541  2 BDRM AVAIL NOW $295 MO. 3  THIS WEDNESDAY, APRIL 12!!  adopting kids for two hours on FRI·  
them to a lost and found please call  career option? Must be able to  BDRM. NEXT FALL, NEAR CAM·  Hurry and get your tickets NOWII  DAY APRIL 28 and take them  
.T  4·1456.  motivate self and others. Health  4 Sale: Rd-trip TIX: SB·RALEIGH·  PUS.272·6306  This will sell out!!  around to play games on the quad  
minded and money motivated are  Durham through Chicago (April14  8:00 @ Washington Hall  and see our campus. Don't be  
If anyone found a pair of glasses in  pluses. Call273·5110.  am· return April17) $225 OBO·will  LIVE IN A GOOD NEIGHBOR·  TONS of tickets available for $3 at  embarrased to go bungee running  
LaFun (although! it could have been  sell either portion of tix 271-1774  HOOD FURNISHED HOMES  lhe Lafortune Info Desk  and human bowling this year ­ 
anywhere on campus) last week (4/5 or 4/6) in ablack flip· open case (by the TV somewhere) I  ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOY· MENTI EARN THOUSANDS THIS SUMMER IN CANNERIES,  Mac: 8months old, 4MB RAM, 160MB HD, modem, MSoffice $900  NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR IDEAL FOR 3·8 STUDENTS 2773097  HURRYIII......................................  adopt a little sib! To sign up or for more information, call Brian x1 058.......................................  
desperately need them back.  PROCESSORS, ETC.  Toyomu:271·7961  ############################  
They are tawny, oval-shaped frames by prodesign.  MALE/FEMALE. ROOM/BOARD/TRAVEL OFTEN  Mac.Pwrbk.$1k obo 284·5256  PERSONAL  Going to the Twin Cities for Easter?  HAPPY 20TH & A DAY BIRTHDAY MOANER!!!  
Finals are corning up and I can't  PROVIDED! GUIDE. GUARAN·  I need a ride. Call Matt@ X1372  
read without themlll  TEED SUCCESS! (919)929·4398  '86 FORD TEMPO, 57k, $2,000  Yes, Your Highnessness?  Thank you greatly, David I!  
(219) 272·1778  ext A1082  OR B/0. 631·7119.  ############################  
1  I  I  0 I'' I I\ It I\ If e'' I I It I l i  

Tuesday, April 11, 1995 The Observer· SPORTS page 9 
indoor location for the Saint

• SMC TENNIS 
Mary's sports teams to practice

Angela 
and hold their games when the continued from page 12 weather is not satisfying. However, the Director of
Hillsdale next in line for Belles 
By TARA KRULL 
Sports Writ•r 
Although they had a shaky beginning to their season this Spring, the Saint Mary's tennis team has hopes for a brighter future, beginning with today's home match against Hillsdale College at 3:00 p.m. 

SMC looks to pick up the pieces after a tough loss to Hppe College. 

Students $Earn some extra cash$ 
$20.00 
Bring Student I.D. 
To: American Biomedical CTR 515 Lincolnway West-South Bend 
Help save a Life 
Hours M-F: 9-6 
Sat: 8-5 
234-6010 
Bring this Coupon 


18 yrs. old, bring I.D. with Proof of current address. 
great scores ... 

.---· 
I I I I 
+7.2.' I t * 
po1n s 

really care. 
Call: 1-800-KAP-TEST 
get a higher score 
KAPLAN 

' As documented in the May 1994 Kaplan LSAT Performance Study conducted by Price Waterhouse. 
The Belles defeated Division I Valparaiso University last Tuesday, but suffered their biggest loss this season to Hope College on Thursday. According to coach Katie Cromer, the team will be ready for anything today when they face Hillsdale. 
"We defeated Hillsdale two years ago and didn't play them at all last year, so we have no idea of what to expect of them." Cromer said. "We're just going to use this to our advantage and go out after them with everything we've got." 
Senior Nancy Waibel com­mented that things have been rough for the Belles this Spring because-they've lost so many players. This resulted in a mid­season line-up shift, which moved the players into posi­tions they weren't used to play­ing at. 
"Because we've lost some key players, we really have had to do everything we can to assimi­late to the changes and make the best of what we have," Waibel added. 
Though now a team of only eight players, the Belles have not given up. Their efforts thus far have earned them an invi­tation to the prestigious Midwest Invitational Tournament which will take place this weekend in Madison, Wisconsin. This is an honor for Saint Mary's as only the top 16 teams from the midwest region are invited to the invitational. 
If things were to fare ex­tremely well for the Belles at the invitational, they could re­ceive a team invite to the NCAA national tournament held in May. The invitational in Madison this weekend is also an opportunity for singles and doubles players to gain the recognition needed for individ­ual bids to nationals. 
The Belles will keep these hopes in mind as they prepare themselves for action this weekend. A win against Hillsdale today would definitely set the ball rolling in the right direction for the Belles. 
"We need to focus on playing 
Hillsdale today," Cromer said, 
"and then we can really start 
fine-tuning things for this 
weekend. For now, we're very 
happy just having received our 
invitation." 

modating tennis, volleyball, and an official-sized basketball court. The lower level contains two racquetball/wallyball courts, as well as dressing and locker rooms. Gymnastics, dance, and fencing areas occu­py the balcony level, along with the Angela Fitness Center. 
The Angela Fitness Center is the most commonly used re­source of the facility. Each month, the center is used al­most 2,000 times by Saint Mary's students. The center of­fers seven stationary bicycles, seven Nautilus weight ma­chines, four Stairmasters and various free weights. On week­day afternoons, the center also provides an excellent view of the gymnastics team's prac­tices. Unlike the rest of the ar­eas, however, the Fitness Center is restricted to females due to the insufficie'nt amount of weight equipment for men. 
The main floor also sets stage to the aerobics program at Saint Mary's. The program costs only $10 per semester, and entitles members to attend all aerobic, body toning, total body workout and circuit train­ing classes. There are a total of twelve different aerobics classes in all, and the classes are held every day except on Saturdays. 
The aerobics program is one of the most attended activities at the facility. Students enjoy aerobics classes not only because they are an excellent chance to get in shape, but because they are stress-reliev­ers as well. 
"Believe it or not, I look for­ward to aerobics. I'm able to forget about all the stresses I'm under. and just relax for an hour or so," said sophomore McCandless resident Jen Hall. 
Angela also provides several activities that are unique. For example, cross-country skiing equipment may be checked out anytime at no charge. 
Also, Angela offers an indoor track, which is another favorite activity at the facility. The track wraps around the bal­cony in a square-like fixture. Although the track tends to get crowded on some weekday afternoons, many students enjoy it because it gives them the chance to walk, run or jog throughout the winter months. One lap around the track is 160M, so ten laps total a mile. 
The facility also provides an Athletics and Recreation at Angela, Jan Travis, sees a problem with overcrowding of the facility in the early winter months. 
"Around the month of January, the facility becomes too crowded. The basketball team practices, the track, ten­nis. and softball teams are preparing for their seasons, and gymnastics, aerobics, and volleyball intramurals are all trying to take place as well," said Travis. 
Besides being crowded due to athletic practice, the facility is also packed with exercising buffs during the months of January and February. During the two weeks we were here in January alone, 2,300 students partook in recreational activi­ties in Angela. During the month of February, over 5,600 students used the facility's recreational activities. Imagine that with over four sports teams trying to practice as well. 
"The facility is always the most crowded during January and February because the stu­dents are preparing for spring break," said Travis. "However, I feel that Saint Mary's has out­grown the facility. The facility is no longer an establishment for our varsity teams. Rather, it is simply a facility designed for non-athletic events and recreational activity." 
Travis claims that the facility needs to provide another dress­ing room for the varsity teams. Presently, the facility contains only one dressing room, and when varsity sports are held inside the facility, the Belles are required to share their dressing room with the oppos­ing team. 
"The locker room setup is de­finately uncomfortable. It poses a problem at halftime and even before the game when you're trying to prepare yourself mentally for the game, and the opposing team is walk­ing through your half of the lockerroom," said Katie Lalli, a member of the basketball team. 
Suggestions for solving the 
problem of locker room space 
have been discussed, but no 
solution has yet to be discov­
ered. 
Angela Athletic Facility is 
open Monday through 
Thursday from 8am-11pm, 
Friday from Bam to 9pm, • 
Saturday from 9am to 9pm, 
and Sunday from noon to 



Grand Opening 
~mMJC® [W(ID~ ((;000~~ ~M~~~i 
Chinese Buffet Eat In or Take Out 
Hunan, Szechuan & Cantonese 
Lunch: $4.75 Dinner: $6.50 
More than 40 items served. The largest and best Chinese buffet in South Bend. 

Enjoy 2 separate,but related, One Act Plap:
La:t 
Lone
an and
Bo on Star 
Afril1!,ll, 14,1&, 11, !0, 21, !Z $lDI•...aU nn$7.DO N Fri. aU Sal. Cutaia r•.Lil 
Call 234-1112 Tile FUa.·701 Partqe Awt·WBad, 4811 

page 10 The Observer • SPORTS 
• MEN'S TENNiS 
Narrow margins plague squad 
ByB.J. HOOD 
Spons Writer 
Coach Bob Bayliss and his players on the Notre Dame men's tennis team know they took their hits early. 
. Playing against top competi­tion. 4-3 losses occurred more than the team would have liked. Last weekend, the Irish once again tangled with a high­ly ranked opponent, but this time came out on top of Boise State by the familiar 4-3 score. 
The Irish have been playing much better as of late, but they have been doing it against Big Ten teams they felt they should defeat. On Saturday. the Irish got a chance to show their im­provement against tough com­petition. 
"It was a total team effort," said Mike Sprouse. "Everyone who competed won at least once, so everyone made a con­tribution." 
Ryan Simme was defeated at number one singles, Sprouse won at number two singles, Jason Pun was victorious at number three, John Jay O'Brien and Jakub Pietrowski fell at number four and five, re­spectively. and Steve Flanigan won at number six. 
Interestingly enough, Sprouse felt the large Boise State crowd helped the Irish. "The crowd worked to our advantage, be­cause it got me pumped up. I felt pretty good about my play." 
Even though the number one doubles tandem of Pun and Sprouse was defeated, the com­binations of Flanigan and Pietrowski along with O'Brien and Simme secured the doubles point with victories. O'Brien and Simme are 8-0 at number three doubles. 
Sprouse feels the team has played well the last three weeks after being strengthened by the tough early season schedule. 
Is the team playing at the level they need to be at this point in the season? "Yeah, I defmitely think we're getting to that level." 
It certainly looks like the win­ners of four straight and nine of their last eleven are playing very well. Now. instead of tak­ing ·of the hits, they are delivering them, too. 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
~~ GREAT 'lYALL 

Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant 1991, 1992, and 1993 
Szechwan•Cantonese•American Chinese Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 days 

Banquet rooms 
Sunday Buffet Brunch-Ev~ry Sunday 

available for 
$8.95 for Adults 
up to 200 
$3.95 for Children under 10 

.. 
.... 
THE sweatshirt

VARSITY SHOP
...., 
"I've always wanted. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY MADDY! 
ONILY 3~ IIJ)J\YS TO 
((]IPUill)) 
CITTY~~ 
€~ 
OTREDM/£ 

....------~-----~ -~-----~ ----~­
Tuesday, April II, I995 The Observer· TODAY page 11 MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM MIKE PETERS CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 



DILBERT 
OKlo..'(, SO WE SHIPPED 
A f'\lLLlON KEYBOARDS 
THAT DON'T \-\AVE THE LETTER "0.'' WHAT DO WE 007 
7 "Pastoral" 26 Undergrad a Remove chalk 27 Apropos of 9 Francis of 28 Thug 
"What's My 
30 Sister of Line" 
Euterpe 10 Neighbor of 
32 Dope
Senegal 34 Good. long bath 11 Strength 35Aiways12 Cowboy's rope 37 Study for finals 13 Tourist 38 Villa-buildingattraction family
21 Ken Follett's 39 Hwy. numbers
"--the Needle" 41 Understood 
22 Bottled spirits 42 Swizzles 
BILL WATTERSON 
n" SH\.l. NoT 
Pt>."ii~G io\l ~500 FOR IT. 
SCOTT ADAMS 

CAL YIN AND HOBBES 
i
I 
!
I 
I 
WE COULD OFFER FREE UPGRA.OES TO USERS Wl-\0 
CAN PROVE THE.Y NE.EO A''Q.'' 
57 "Kaddish" 
WELL THERE'S THE ROYAL 
FAI"'\ILY. 
47 Certain sofa 56 Aquatic mammal 
58 Loses rigidity goddess 59 Actress Carrie et al. 
49 Parthenon 
50 Kid's shooter 
60 ---the kill
51 Sierra ----­
61 Learning52 Trip that's out of 
method this world? 
52 1857's-­54 Slightest Scott Decision 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

A new service for people who call in sick and spend the day playing in the sun. 
jp 
ql~,!r INTEREST ·· ·Band Blood Drive Today: 9 a.m. -6 p.m. Come help save a life today. Sign up for a time slot at the Band Building. Just walk in or call 1-7136 for more infonna­tion, but above all, give blood! · 
:Engineering and Science Juniors: Using Resume Expert is the focus of a workshop being held today from 6:30-8 p.m. in room 228 DeBartolo. Detailed instructions and on-the-computer assistance are provided for the use of Resume Expert software to create an effective resume. This workshop is targeted for Engineering and Science majors, but all majors are welcome as space allows. Presented by Paula Cook, Assistant Director of Career and Placement Services. 
Attention Psych Majors: 3rd Annual Special Studies Night, tonight at 7 p.m. in room 119 Haggar. Various professors will present their specific research interest and provide opportunities t'or undergraduates to work with them in "Special Studies." 
Interested In Education and Service? Come to our iji(or$ation meeting on the Madison Project and hear guest lecturer Digger Phelps speak on service and com­munity development with the Madison Elementary Schoo.L. It will be held today at 7 p.m. in room 102 DeBartolo. 
,·i<#0??-;:. :' ·Fr~~.Prlnoeton Aevlew Preview. Princeton Review of!~rs a. free Princeton Review Preview cla.ss on toda.y rtom 7to 9 p.m. in room 115 O'Shaughnessy. Sign up for th~,,class in 101 O'Shag. 
. W.in a Free Meat: Buy raffle tickets to win dinners from '}'ippacanoe, Chili's, The Emporium. and lna.ny more, Proceeds to benefit the Mexico Service Seminar. Tickets sold in the dining halls for $1. 
Notre Dame 
. North :;:·:Fiesta Beef Fajita i(Top Sirloin ·.·Reese's Pieces Cookies 
Saint Mary's 
South Knickerbocker Bean Soup Whipped Potatoes Lemon Cream Pie 

1/L~mon Pepper Chicken Quarters ··•·.··'Beef Stroganoff 
0 
0
., 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 25 State of France 
26 Relieved sound 63 Great many 1 Na'ive ones 29 "Foucault's &4 Coordination6 Crosswise to a Pendulum" loss: Var.

ship's middle author 65 Pavarotti, for 11 ---Malaprop 31 "lch bin--one(Sheridan Berliner" 66 Prefix with sexcharacter) 33 Lennon's lady or cycle14 Massey of 34 Crack the case 67 Beau-­"Love Happy" 36 More pleasant 68 Mother's-side15 Yankee Yogi relative40 "Classical"16 Hour on a 69 Aerialist's
43 Reddish dye 

grandfather safeguard
44" .. and---­

clock 70 Clock maker growon"17 Twiggy broom Thomas etal. 
45lngested18 End-all's 

71 M.PAA.­
46 Approvescompanion approved

48 ----Lanka 20 "Unfinished" 49 Home of Iowa 23 "Glitter and Be 19 One-liner 
State DOWN 50 Severe ("Candide" disappointment 
1 Lobster eaters' needssong) 53 Overhead rails 2 British PM.

24 Coop denizen 55 Hokum· 
Douglas-Home 3 Hokum 4Ample

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
5 Dance in Rio 6 A.M. or P.M . e.g. 


%e 06server 

Published Monday through Friday, %e. 06server is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found %e. 06server an indispensible link to the two cam­puses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive %e. 06serverin your 
home. 
Make checks payable: The Observer 
and mail: P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $70for one academic year. 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester. 
Naine __________________________________ _ 
Address ______________________________ __ 
City______State.___Zip.____ 
... 


SPORTS 
page 12 Tuesday, Aprilll, 1995 
• BASEBAll 
Irish face slumping Illini 
By MEGAN McGRATH Sports Writer 
Last week, the Notre Dame baseball team checked the weather report with almost as much urgency as they surveyed scouting re­ports. 
Of their seven sched­uled games last week, two were postponed due to foul 
w e a t h e r . 
L-----::,........,-:-----:,----...J including Sunday's MCC match-up with Wisconsin -Milwaukee. Today, trend continues as the It:ish hope the rains stay away and allow them to take on Illinois at 5:00 p.m. at Frank Eck Stadium. If Accu-View reports are wrong, the Irish will face an Illini team that has struggled of late. In a week-end series with 
Minnesota, Illinois lost three of four games, all of them shutouts. 
Overall, the Illini have posted a 13-20 record. They have just one batter above .300, and as a team sport a .260 average. The Illini pitching staff has a 5.08 cumulative earned run average. 
Illinois will have to contend with a Notre Dame line-up that is hitting .311 and coming off a string of double-digit run out­puts. 
In their past nine games, the Irish have topped ten runs five times. 
The keys to the offensive pro­duction have been the top of the line-up. 
First baseman Craig DeSensi moved to the lead-off spot 14 games ago. and since the move the senior captain has been one of the Irish's most consistent performers. DeSensi is cur­rently batting .354, fourth in the team. Last week he hit at a .400 clip with two home runs, five RBI and ten runs scored. 
One of the hottest hitters last week was sophomore Scott Sollmann. Sollmann went 12­20 in the five games to up his average to a team-leading .393. The leftfielder scored nine runs and drove in four. 
In the third spot, sophomore Mike Amrhein owns a 13-game hitting streak to go along with a .365 average and 31 RBI. Amrhein has hit .381 in his 16 games since moving to the three hole. He has hit safely in 15 of those games. 
But the most powerful offense has come from the clean-up position, in the form of junior Ryan Topham. Topham leads the team with 12 home runs and 49 RBI, and his .372 aver­age is second among the Irish. 
Last week, Topham hit four homers and posted a 1.050 slugging percentage. Eleven of his last 16 hits have been for extra bases. 
"I was just in a groove," 



Angela 'works out' for SMC 
The Observer/ Cynthia Exconde 
The Angela Athletic facility offers aerobics classes all year for students. There are stairmasters, too. 

• WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Siegfried co01es up big against Drake 
and bounced right back." 
Schwab also provided the Irish with one of their three singles point, as she cruised 6­1, 6-2 at number two. 
"Laura has been playing real­ly good tennis for us. both at singles and at doubles," Louderback noted. "Her expe­rience is a real asset." 
Another key asset for NCAA tournament-hopeful Irish was the play of junior Meredith Siegfried, who, entering the Drake contest, had seen very little action this season. Showing no signs of rust. Siegfried stepped right into the first doubles slot to join Wendy Crabtree in a crucial 6-1, 7-5 victory. 
· "Meredith Siegfried was a big boost to the team," Louderback praised. "Drake's number one doubles team is good, but she played very well. It was good to see." 
Siegfried's opportunity came as a result of Holyn Lord not being able to play due to a rule concerning the number of matches a player can compete in. Along with Crabtree, Lord has participated in additional tournament matches, hence needed to sit out. 
"It was a little bit of a shock 
playing without Holyn because 
we hadn't played without ei­
ther Wendy, Holyn. or Laura 
all year. Hopefully, we can do 
it again, because Crabtree will 
sit out against Miami of Ohio 
(on Saturday)." 
That means Siegfried will probably be granted another chance to impress. 
Friday, April 14 Good Friday There are no sports today. Go outside and play with all ofthe rwigs left over from the storm. Watch for downed power lines, though. They're dangerous. 


By CAROLINE BLUM Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
You may know JACC but you may not know Angela. Angela Athletic Facility, Saint Mary's renown sports complex, takes a back seat to none. 
Angela Athletic Facility (AAF) , which cost Saint Mary's a mere $1.8 million, was built in 1977. The building was designed by C.F. Murphy Associates of Chicago, who received several awards for their design of the building, ·including the 1978 Architectural Award of Excellence given by the American Institute of Steel. 
Although Saint Mary's budget did not allow for a high price environmental system, Saint Mary's officials were insistent upon achieving energy savings. The roof contains high-quali­ty insulation which provides less heat gain and loss. and the walls are translucent in order to ensure low fuel consumption throughout the year. 

The main floor of the facility is equipped with a set of movable bleachers at each end of the floor, which allows the facility to seat over 18,000 people. Therefore, Saint Mary's uses the complex for several of their major events. It was used frequently throughout the Saint Mary's sesquicentennial for all-school masses and conferences. The facility also hosts the Baccalaureate Mass each year, activities dur­ing Senior Dad's Weekend, an inside com­mencement ceremony, ~1d several summer events. If Maya Angelou was to speak at Saint Mary's someday, she would speak in Angela. 
This year alone, the facility has hosted the NCAA Fencing Championships and an Invitational hosted by the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Gymnastics Team. 
The twin-leveled, multipurpose center includes areas for a half-dozen sports. Three multi-use courts occupy the main floor accom­
see ANGELA I page 9 
Tuesday, April11 
Wednesday, April 12 
ND Baseball vs. Illinois Sp.m. 
ND Baseball at Purdue 3 p.m. 
Eck Stadium 
ND So&ball vs. Western Michigan 
ND So&ball at Michigan 2 p.m. 
3 p.m. Ivy Field 
SMC Tennis vs. Hillsdale 3 p.m. 
ND Tennis vs. Michigan 3 p.m. Eck Pavillion SMC So&ball vs. North Central 3:30 

Lord's absence creates chance for backup 
By TIM SHERMAN Associate Sports Editor 
The situation was remark­ably similar. The outcome was significantly different. 
Last Thursday, the 22th ranked Notre Dame women's tennis team was knotted at 4-4 with one match still to be complet­ed. The dou­bles match of the team of L a u r a Schwab and K e 11e y 01son 
'-----=:-:,.--------' would be the deciding point in the match. The Irish came up short in that match, losing 5-4. 
Sunday, the circumstance was much the same. With Notre Dame tied with Drake at 4-4, the only match still being contested was that of Schwab and Olson. This time, the senior/freshman combination came through, winning 6-3, 3­6, 6-2, raising the Irish record to 12-9. 
"It was good to see Laura and Kelley win it for us," Notre Dame coach Jay Louderback said. "They were the last ones out there against Northwestern and that is always tough when you lose. But they played well 
Thursday, April 13 ND Lacrosse vs. Air Force 3p.m. Moose Krause Field SMC Tennis at Midwest Invitational 



