
Tuesday, October 24, 1995 • Vol. XXVII No. 41 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Crash takes life of Notre Dame senior 
By DAVE TYLER News Ediwr 
A one car accident claimed the life of a Notre Dame student in early morning hours of Oc­tober 13 in Mishawaka. 
Hobert Adams, a senior who 

pus, lost con­trol of the vehicle he was driving and crashed into a tree in the 1300 block of 
South Union Adams St., police said. Alcohol may have played a role in the accident. 
Adams died of massive head, chest and internal injuries ac­cording to Deputy Coroner Michael O'Connell. He was 21. 
Adams was involved with sev­eral campus organizations. He served as Day Chief and Music Editor of The Observer and was the Student Union Board's Music Commissioner. 
He was enrolled in the College of Business .as a Marketing major. 
Police said Adams' car was traveling at a high speed north­bound on Union Street when his car hit a tree in the front yard of 1308 South Union St. Adams was wearing a safety belt at the time, according to the police report. 
Three Mishawaka fire de­partment units spent more than an hour trying to retrieve Adams' body from the wreck-



Friends recall Adams' warmth 
By DAVE TYLER Student Union Board's Concert News Ediror Commissioner since the fall of 1994, and was a member of Friends and co-workers re­the concert committee since membered Rob Adams as 1992. Adams also worked as friendly, selfless and dedicated The Observer's Day Chief since Monday as word spread of his 1993 and became Music Editor passing. in February. 1995. He was a 
Adams, 21, died in the early music critic for the paper since morning hours of October 13 in his freshman year. a one car accident in "He had an amazing atti­Mishawaka. tude," said SUB manager Katie 
The senior who spent a good Lawler. "He sweated blood for portion of his life traveling in a military family, was the see FRIENDS I page 4 

age, police said. A blood alcohol test revealed 
"It was the longest extrication that Adams had a blood alcohol I've ever seen," said police content (BAC) of 0.18 percent. Capt. William Schwartz. Under Indiana law a person is considered intoxicated with a BAC of0.10 percent or more. 
A long time resident of the area of the crash, Ruby Young, told the South Bend Tribune the street is not prone to seri­ous traffic accidents. 
"It's not a dangerous road; there's not a curve or any­thing," she said. 
Adams is survived by his par­ents, Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Adams of Midloathian, Va, and a sister. 
A memorial service will be held Wednesday at 5 p.m.. at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. University President Father Edward Malloy will pre­side over the service. 
The South Bend Tribune con­tributed to this report. 

Prof faces sex offense accusation 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST Associarr News Ediror 
Mark Herro. an associate professor of electrical 1111gineering at Notre Dame, was in St. Joseph County Superior Court yesterday for a preliminary hearing after being charged last week with molest­ing a 14-year-old boy numer­ous times during an 18-month period. 
St. Joseph County police took llerro into custody on Thursday and eharged him with three counts of child molestation and two counts of st1xual misconduct with a minor. 
lie was releas11d Friday after posting $2,000 bond. 
Details of yesterday's hearing were not yet available as of last night, according to the St. Joseph County Superior Court clerk's offiee. 
From January 1994 to May 1994, llerro allegedly molested the boy, then 12. by fondling him in the sauna of the South Bend Hacquet Club. Herro was a friend of the boy's family, authorities told the South Bend Tribune. 
Herro is also accused of fondling and tmgaging in other sexual acts with the boy at the professor's Notre Dame office between July 1994 and May 1995. 
Herro allegedly continued similar behavior with the boy at his horne in June. 
The boy's father informed the county police last week of the alleged conduct after starting his son in counseling, accord­ing to police reports. 
The father said he became suspicious last summer of a computer message sent from Herro to the boy, and the father said he later found a let­ter written by the boy to I Ierro. The father told police he con­fronted Herro, who denied the allegations. 
The boy apparently would not tell his father anything until 
see HERRO/ page 8 

• BOARD OF TRUSTEES fALl MEETING 
Hatch elected NO's third provost 
Graduate School Dean replaces retiring 0 'Meara 
By ETHAN HAYWARD Associare News Editor 

Nathan Hatch, vice president for graduate studies and research since 1989, was elect­ed last Friday as the University's next provost by the Board of Trustees. Hatch will succeed current provost Timothy O'Meara after his retirement from the post June 30 of next year. 
As the University's second ranking officer. Ilatch will, at the direction of the president, exercise overall responsibility for the academic enterprise. 
"I am deeply honored for the opportunity to serve the University in this way," says Hatch. 
The Trustees elected Hatch on the recommendation of University President Father. Edward Malloy. Malloy chaired the committee elected by the Academic Council to conduct the provost search and dis­cussed his recommendation with the committee before pre­senting it to the Trustees. 
In a letter to the faculty Malloy said the new provost 

• Graduated Summa Cum Laude from Wheaton College, 1968 
• 
Ph.D. from Washington University 

• 
Joined Notre Dame History faculty, 1975 

• 
Vice President of Graduate Studies,1989 

• 
Active Dean of College of Arts and Letters, 1988-89 


• Founding Director of Institute forNathan Hatch Scholarship in the Liberal Arts 
• Elected Provost of Notre Dame, 1995 
should meet "a distinguished scholar-teacher with signifi­cant administrative experience who demonstrated the ability to lead Notre Dame's ongoing academic development, and to appreciate and preserve Notre Dame's Catholic character." 
Candidates for the office of provost were interviewed by the committee, as well as by members of the Academic Council and the chair of the Faculty Senate. Malloy later presented the results of the interviews, along with a per­sonal recommendation, to the Trustees, who then elected Hatch. The appointment is sub­ject to formal review every five years. 
Hatch. a professor of history and member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1975. is cited as one of the most influ­ential scholars in the study of religion in America. His book, The Democratization of 
see HATCH/ page 4 
Malloy, 


Beauchamp get third terms 
By MARY KATE MORTON Associare News Editor 
Presently in his eighth year as president of the University, Father Edward Malloy will serve a third five-year term beginning July 1, 1997. The Board of Trustees re-elected Malloy on Oct. 20, in conjunc­tion with the election of Nathan Hatch as the University's new provost in preparation for the upcoming 1996 capital campaign. 
For a third term concurrent with Father Malloy's, Father 
E. William Beauchamp will retain his position as executive vice-president through 2002, as voted by the Board of Trustees as well. 
Since Malloy and Beauchamp took office in 1987. the University has undergone many face-lifts and has accomplished numerous milestones. In addition to enrolling the most selective classes in the University's his­tory, increasing the female population to 45% and dou­
see MALLOY/ page 4 


Welsh's gift funds West Quad dorm 
By JAMIE HEISLER Assisranr News Ediror 

The University announced last week that a gift from the Welsh family will underwrite one of the two womens' resi­dence halls under construction on the new West Quad. 
The dorm, to be named Welsh Hall, will house approx­imately 275 women who will be drawn from either Siegfried or Knott Hall when the dorm opens for the fall semester of 1997. 
Father Edward Malloy wel­comed the gift from the family calling it "an act of great gen­erosity which will serve to per­petuate one of the hallmarks of Notre Dame-residentiality." 
"It is a tenet of education at Notre Dame that our students should learn not only how to reason but also how to live," Malloy stated. "Welsh Hall now will become part of the com­munal tradition that fosters this concept of learning." 
Robert Welsh, a Notre Dame alumnus and trustee, is presi­dent and chief executive officer of Welsh, Inc., of Merrillville, Ind. A native of Gary. Ind., he graduated from Notre Dame in 1956 with a bachelor's degree in finance. He began his ca­reer at Welsh Oil, Inc., that same year and assumed lead­ership of the company in 1968. 

Welsh was a member of the Advisory Council for the Notre Dame Law School from 1987­90 then joined the Advisory Council for the University's College of Business Adminis­tration until his election as a trustee in 1991. 
He also previously served on the board of regents of Saint Mary's College, including sev­eral years as vice chair of the board. Welsh is a recipient of Saint Mary's Presidential Medal and of a Notre Dame alumni club "Award of the Year." 
In addition to heading Welsh, Inc., he is also president of As­pen, Inc., a petroleum hauling company. He is director of sev­eral organizations including Catholic Charities, Northern Indiana Public Service Com­pany, NIPSCO Industries, Inc., NBD Indiana. Inc .. the North­west Indiana Forum, the Northwest Indiana En­trepreneur Academy, Zollner Industries, and Lakeshore 
see WELSH/ page 8 page2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, October 24, 1995 


• INSIDE COLUMN 
Gone, 
but not 

forgotten 

If you didn't know Rob Adams, you knew of him. And if you didn't know of him, he was still some­where in your life, whether you knew it or not. He was everywhere at once and involved in everything. 
Maybe he was the guy sitting next to you in one of your marketing classes or the smoker you brushed by on the front stoop of LaFortune every so often. Maybe you saw his name in The Observer on Thursdays or listened to his all funk show on WVFI on Wednesdays. Maybe you went to a concert he brought to campus, like the Violent Femmes or The Indigo Girls. Maybe you complained when a concert didn't come to campus, regardless of the fact that Rob worked his ass off 24-7 to try and get someone to come. 
Maybe Rob was your friend, maybe even your best friend, and the only word you can use to describe the last week and a half is "unreal." 
Maybe you have absolutely no idea who Rob Adams is, but the fact that he's gone upsets you more than you can ever begin to explain. You think about him constantly, his family now especially. It's almost incomprehensible that something like this could happen to any­one. 
Without a doubt, Rob Adams came into our lives for a reason. He managed to enter almost every single life on campus and leave a lasting impression behind. Personally, I have to believe that God sent Rob to all of us as a very special gift. You don't know someone for four years-have them affect the way you think and relate, the way you see things, the way you listen to music, and the way you write-and not know this. 
Many people have had over a week to come to terms with Rob's death. Some, however, are only finding out now. The tragic nature of Rob's death should serve as a call to action for all of us. If ever there was a time for the Notre Dame family to come together, it's now. 
Even in his absence, so much of him is left behind. Listen to New Order,listen to the Beastie Boys. Pick up the new P.M. Dawn album whose review you read just as you were leaving campus for break. Think of him. Pick up a cigarette. Put it down-you're trying to cut back. Think of him. Or maybe just think of him, without a reason. Do you really need one? 
At this point, I can't even imagine The Observer office on a Tuesday or Wednesday afternoon without him. I can't even imagine life without him. He was so alive. It's impossi­ble to fathom the fact that he's gone. 
Less than two weeks ago, Rob and I sat around in The Observer office, returning record company phone calls and sorting through COs. Outside of the office and around campus, I rarely got to see him as much as I once did. He spent a lot of time with his clos­est friends and, generally, stayed away from the bar scene. Rob promised me then and there that next semester-the last semester of his time here at Notre Dame-he would make an effort to go out more. He was a senior, after all. This was his last chance. 
But his last chance came sooner than any of us could ever expect, leaving a large void in more than one life on campus-a void, I think, that will never be filled. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

• Tm:uw's SrAFF  
News  
Amy Schmidt  Production  
Deborah Schultz  Tara Grieshop  
Spons  Jackie Moser  
Megan McGrath  
Dave Treacy  Lab Tech  
Graphics  Michael Hungeling  
Brian Blank  


• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Tamil rebels massacre southeastern village, killing 19 

KOTIYAGALA, Sri Lanka 

Farmers were trudging through the rice fields as the red sun began to set in southeastern Sri Lanka when Tamil guerrillas pounced on them with machetes. 
Some villagers fled into the jungle, but the rebels gave chase. They chopped off the heads of some farmers, and caught two boys and tied their hands behind their backs before stabbing them to death. 
Sunday's killings of 19 men, women and children was the fourth time in three days that Tamil rebels have at­tacked civilians of the majority Sinhalese community. 
The attacks came as thousands of sol­diers launched a major offensive to cap­ture the rebel stronghold of Jaffna city, 185 miles north of Colombo. 
Ratnayake Mudiyaselage Heenmenike was walking to her hut Sunday with her two grandchildren when the rebels attacked. "I saw them catching the chil­dren and dragging them into the jungles ... There was nothing I could do but run for help," said the 65-year-old woman. 
The Sinhalese are in a majority in this 
Children object to healthy Halloween 
NORTH POTOMAC, Md. 

Ghosts and goblins may not frighten trick-or-treaters this Halloween as much what they could find inside their goody bags: healthful snacks instead of sugary candy. Non-candy snacks -including Cream of Wheat and in­stant oatmeal -are being talked up this year as healthi­er alternatives to candy for that ghostly holiday, but sweet-toothed youngsters won't hear of it. "They should give out candy, not breakfast." said 11-year-old Michael Bergamini, who shook his head in disgust. "Everyone likes candy. Not Cream of Wheat or oatmeal or raisins." But non-candy snack foods are becoming a new Hal­loween tradition, says the Snack Food Association, which has joined the National Potato Promotion Board to push them as an alternative to sweeter treats. "The populari­ty of pretzels in particular, with their excellent nutrition­al profile, has made them an excellent choice for handing out at Halloween," association spokeswoman Jane Schultz said. 'We promote snacks as fun foods, and Halloween is a fun holiday so we feel like snacks fit very well with Halloween," Schultz said. 

Gang graffiti tells of feuds and deaths 
BOSTON 

In the stinking hallways of the Orchard Park projects, crude drawings of a marijuana leaf, five tombstones and a stick figure firing a gun show how the O.P. Trailblazers live and how they die. "Like the hieroglyphics and the pyramids, this is their tomb," says Officer Ricky Rabb, a member of the police department's anti-gang unit. For the detectives who have cracked the code, graffiti can be a good source of information about gangs, their turf, their feuds, what drugs they sell. Or it can be a source of disinformation. The gangs know the police are reading the walls, so any apparent leads have to be verified. "They can fool with the walls as much as try to inform you," says Officer Greg Brown, Rabb's partner. Gang graffiti. unlike the colorful bubble letters and murals put up by so-called "taggers," is rarely artistic. It is function­al: It marks boundaries, communicates to the gang's own members, and issues challenges and warnings to rival gangs. Translations of graffiti at Orchard Park: -Heat St. Blazer Town 95: There are a lot of guns (heat) in the projects this year. 


• 
•
ILL. 
nation of 17 million. The guerrillas, who belong to the minority Tamils, have been fighting for 12 years to carve out a homeland in the north and the east, saying that alone will end the dis­crimination against them. The battle has left 36,000 dead since 1983. 
Peace talks began after the Peoples' Alliance party came to power in 1994, but the talks broke down and the rebels called off a three-month truce in April. Both sides have accused each other of not being serious about pursuing peace. 
The latest massacre was at Kotiyagala village in the southeastern Moneragala district, 115 miles south­east of Colombo, the capital. Police ini­tially wrongly identified the village as Aithiamala, which is in the same area. 
"The villagers had no chance ... they were killed like dogs," Jayanatha Wickremaratna, a regional deputy in­spector-general of police, told reporters at the site Monday. 
After the rebels killed the villagers, they burned two quts and ransacked four shops before fleeing back into the jungles. he said. 


Man kidnaps two young brothers 
BENTON HARBOR. Mich. 

A man already facing a charge of fondling a young girl is being sought on charges he kidnapped two young brothers missing for more than a week. He may be head­ing for Mexico, a newspaper reported. A federal warrant was issued Saturday for Boyd Dean Weekley, 24. "Our primary goal is the safe return of these kids.... We just want him to drop the boys off," FBI agent Chuck Goodwin said Sunday. "I'm convinced he's not going to hurt them if he has them," the Rev. Larry Rucker, a prison chaplain at Sioux Falls, S.D., said today. "He needs a lot of help. He's really a sick guy .... I pray they get him as soon as possible." Rucker posted bail to get Weekley released from a jail in Sioux Falls, S.D.. and Weekley also is accused of stealing his car. Goodwin refused to say why authorities accused Weekley or what connection he has to the Benton Harbor area, in Michigan. The Herald Palladium in St. Joseph reported Sunday that Weekley made a telephone call Wednesday from somewhere in Tennessee, saying he had the missing boys with him and was on his way to Mexico. 

New map details the ocean floor 
WASHINGTON 

Scientists using declassified military data have pro­duced a detailed map of the ocean floor that could bene­fit fishermen, oil and mineral prospectors and climate re­searchers. "This is a day of celebration," David T. Sandwell of the Scripps Institution of Oceanography said Monday. "We're having a data feast." Sandwell and Walter H.F. Smith of the National Oceanic and Atmo­spheric Administration developed the highly detailed map using data collected by Navy and European Space Agency satellites. The map finally begins to pull away the shroud of mystery from the sea floor, NOAA spokesman Eliot Hurwitz said in unveiling the new chart at the National Press Club. Smith said that the map is 30 times better at showing sea floor detail than earlier studies. The complex data that form the basis of the map are being provided to scientists through the Internet comput­er system and also are available on a set of compact discs. This is important in oil and mineral exploration and in commercial fishing and also has applications in the study of global climate change, he said. 

The AccuWeather~forecast for noon. Tuesday, Oct. 24. 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Allan!a  70  53  Dallas  67  50  New Orleans 76  59  
Ballimore  62  43  Denver  55  41  New York  60  50  
Boslon  57  38  Los Angeles 70  53  Philadelphia 65  53  
Chicago  58  37  Miami  84  72  Phoenix  75  59  
Columbus  67  46  Minneapolis 65  48  St. Louis  64  46  

Tuesday, October 24, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 3 


Mansfield tackles unconscious 
By MAUREEN HURLEY Saint Mary's News Editor 
Physics, psychology, philos­ophy and astronomy combined as Victor Mansfield, professor of physics and astronomy at Colgate University, spoke about synchronicity and soul-making at Saint Mary's last night. 
The Saint Mary's College Center for Academic Innovation and The Scientific Research Society, Sigma Xi, sponsored the lecture, which focused on "healing the split between mind and matter," according to Mansfield. 
Mansfield used the analogy that "99 percent of the universe is invisible" to make the point that "only one percent of our consciousness is visible." Mansfield used C.G. Jing's theo­ries to illustrate how one can 
Have something to saY? Use The Observer classifieds. 


The Observer/Mike Ruma 
GRADUATING SENIORS & RECENT ALUMNI: 
Are you looking for a concrete way to implement 
your ideas for social change? The echoing green 
Public Service Fellowship may be able to help. 
echoing green is a private foundation that funds energetic, talented and committed social entrepreneurs who design innovative and sustainable public service programs. The fellowship offers a $15,000 stipend plus technical assistance. Any social issue area is eligible for consideration. You are invited to attend a presentation by echoing green 


TODAY 

(October 24th) at 5:00 p.m. Room 124, Center for Social Concerns 
Interested but can't attend? Call David Hay, Urban Institute (631­
9015), Maureen Skurski, Center for Social Concerns (631-5779), 
or Peri Arnold, Hesburgh Program in Public Service (631-5016). 






y Ad:-: 
P~c~~F~, 
tk~~~c~tk 
f~R~A~ 
Tickets are on sale today at the LaFortune Box Office. $3 for ND/SMC/HCC students, faculty and staff 
be in touch with their individ­ual meaning in life through dis­covering that 99 percent of unconsciousness. 
"Just as each. individual has a unique fingerprint and unique DNA, we have a unique whole­ness and meaning in life," Mansfield said. 
"Our unconsciousness guides us, providing new growth, ideas, and development. Deep wisdom exists in our unconsciousness." Mansfield used dream interpretation as one means of discovering this unity between "the inner and outer world." 
Psychology senior Molly Sweeney said, "Discussions like this, focusing on one psy­chiatrist [Jing] and discussing his points and ideas thoroughly really make it easier to un-

Fears of Quebec split rock Canada's economy 
By DAVID CRARY 
Associated Press 
TORONTO 
Fears that Quebec will vote for independence next week rocked Canadian financial mar­kets Monday. 
One federalist leader said the province would plunge into "a black hole" if it voted to secede. 
The Canadian dollar. which traded last week at nearly 75 
U.S. cents, took a large one-day tumble to slightly above 73 cents Monday as traders fretted over the possibility of a "Yes" victory in the Oct. 30 referen­dum. 
The Toronto Stock Exchange also quavered. Its composite index lost about 2 percent of its value in trading Monday. Na­tionwide banks and the Mon­
treal-based  conglomerate  
Imasco Ltd.  were especially  
hard hit.  

"Referendum fears dominate the financial markets," Sherry Cooper, chief economist at in­vestment dealer Nesbitt Burns, told a conference call of clients and staff. 
"That's what you call politi­cal instability," said Prime Minister Jean Chretien, in New York for the United Nations' derstand the theories rather than reading it from a book." 
Tom Parisi, professor of psy­chology, who invited Mansfield to speak at Saint Mary's after hearing him talk at a confer­ence stated, "He talked of a world view, contrasting the material world to a world of deep unity," he said. "This is important for college students to think about." 
Discussion on the topic con­tinues as an informal aiscus­sion with Mansfield takes place today from 1:15 to 2:30p.m. in the Mother Pauline room on the second floor of the Cushwa­Leighton Library. 
"The discussion could go in a lot of directions," said Parisi. 
Mansfield's book focusing on synchronicity, "Drop Ship," is currently available at the Shaheen Bookstore. 
50th anniversary ceremonies. "It will be a lively week." 
Chretien, a native Quebecker who staunchly opposes seces­sion, said he remained opti­mistic despite recent polls 
· showing a slight lead for the separatists. He noted federalists won by a 60-40 margin in 1980 despite final opinion polls showing a tight race. One of the leaders of the fed­eralist campaign, Progressive Conservative Party chief Jean Charest, urged his fellow Que­beckers to weigh their vote carefully. "The choice and the conse­quences are overwhelming for people and are irreversible," Charest said in Ottawa. 
"We'd be in a black hole. Where would it go from there?" 
In Quebec City, capital of the mostly French-speaking province. separatists were buoyant after one of their biggest, liveliest rallies of the campaign Sunday night. 
More than 4,000 people waved flags, sang nationalist songs and chanted, "We want a country." 
At one point, the mayor of Quebec, Jean-Paul L'Ailier, asked the crowd for silence. 
"Listen to your heart beat." he said. 
"And you can hear, at the same time, the beat of your new country." 
Many financial analysts pre­dict major economic upheaval if Quebec votes to secede, including a further plunge for the Canadian dollar, higher interest rates, and a possible exodus of businesses from Quebec. 
The head of a leading Quebec polling firm, Jean-Marc Leger, said the dollar's weakness may persuade some Quebeckers that a "Yes" victory would be too costly. 
''I'm sure people will think twice when they see the dollar go down,"' Leger told the tele­phone news conference orga­nized by Nesbitt Burns. 
Lucien Bouchard, one of the two top leaders of the sepa­ratist campaign, said the finan­cial markets would be reas­sured if Chretien publicly pledged to negotiate an eco­nomic partnership with an independent Quebec. 
So far, Chretien has refused to discuss the possibility of a "Yes" victory. 

page 4 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, October 24, 1995 
Observer. whole area." said Lawler. 
As Music Editor. Adams Melanie Laflin. a longtime

Friends 
helped establish a group of crit­friend, said Adams used his continued from page 1 ics in order to review new al­sense of humor to stay upbeat. bums and local concerts. In his "He was very rarely down, he this place. Rob always bright­position as Day Chief. Adams always made others feel good,
ened up the office. He made it headed a staff responsible for he was considerate and car­fun to work here." administrative aspects of the ing," she said. Adams was in charge of se­News and Viewpoint Depart­"I think of Rob and I hear his curing musical acts to play at ments. laughter," said neighbor Jesse SUB sponsored concerts. He "I can't ever remember talk­Newman. negotiated with agents, dealt ing to Rob when he wasn't ex­"Rob always gree.ted his 
with bids. and worked on pub­cited about something, whether friends with a hug, a high-five,licity and artists' accomoda­it was a review he was writing, or a pat on the shoulder. He tions. or a concert he was working on was a constant source of posi­"He was the most terrific con­bringing to campus," Lucas tive energy. People felt better in 
cert commissioner," said 
said. "He had an amazing his presence. Rob genuinely
Lawler. "He was able to get 
amount of energy." enjoyed life, and hopefully he great bands to come under dif­Adams had hoped to work at taught us all to enjoy life a little ficult circumstances with lim­Polygram Records in artist re­more," said friend and neigh­
ited resources. He was able to lations after graduation, and bor Joe Bassett. organize a lot of people and his knowledge and love of "He was passionate about ev­make them excited about the music was unsurpassed. erything he did, " said Observer 
jobs they were doing." 
"He had a vast knowledge of Accent Editor Krista Nannery.
Observer Editor-in-Chief John music: the trends, the bands, "He made friends and keptLucas said Adams brought a the industry. He had a very them forever." 
similar ethic with him to The philosophical grasp on the 
Endowment for the Humanities always has aspired to be a

Hatch 
fellowships from 1985-91. great Catholic university, and Hatch directed graduate today the goal is nearer our continued from page 1 studies in the history depart­grasp then ever before. I look ment from 1980-83, during forward to Nathan's contribu­
American Christianity, has 
which time he was awarded tions toward our reaching it." 
garnered three awards, includ­
the college's Paul Fenlon O'Meara called Hatch an
ing the Albert Outler Prize in 
Award for excellence in teach­"excellent selection." He says
Ecumenical Church History and 
ing. Hatch's experience will stand
the John Hope Franklin Prize 
Hatch graduated summa cum him in a good state with the 
as the best book in American 
laude from Wheaton College in University and that his acade­
studies. 
1968 and earned his master's -mic values will be an asset to
In addition to his duties as 
and doctoral degrees from the University. 
vice president for graduate 
Washington University. He O'Meara will spend the next
studies and research, Hatch 
served as president of the two years as Notre Dame's
has also chaired four other 
American Society of Church Provost Emeritus, pursuing his 
University bodies: the commit­
History in 1993 and is a senior own intellectual agenda in the 
tees on research and scholar­
adviser to the Religion Division areas of education, academics,
ship and on Notre Dame's 
of the Pew Charitable Trusts. and mathematics. 
Catholic identity; the benefits 
He was recently elected vice­Hatch says he is deeply com­
review task force; and the com­
chair of the board of St. Joseph mitted to Notre Dame's mission 
mittee on minority students. 
Medical Center and serves on and that the University has a
During his tenure as associ­
the board of the Michiana great history and tremendous 
ate dean of the College of Arts 
Public Broadcasting opportunities in the future. 
and Letters, Hatch founded and 
Corporation. Hatch was also Until he takes office next
directed Notre Dame's Institute 
director of the United Way of July, Hatch says he plans to do
for Scholarship in the Liberal 
St. Joseph County from 1987-"a lot of listening" to faculty
Arts (ISLA), which fostered a 
92. and students at Notre Dame as
six-fold increase in external 
"I am delighted with the elec­well at other Universities in
funding of faculty in the 
tion of Nathan Hatch to the role order to discern the best prac­
humanities and social sciences 
so long and ably played by Tim tices for improving teaching
and assisted faculty members 
O'Meara," said Malloy of and learning in the university
in winning 21 National 
Hatch's election. "Notre Dame setting. 
in the Colloquy for the Year 
2000. The main thing we are 
directed to is the fulfilling of

Malloy 
continued from page 1 
bling the minority student population, both Malloy and Beauchamp have overseen the creation of the South Bend Center for the Homeless, the planning and building of the campus infrastructure and they have brought the Alliance for Catholic Education program to fruition. 
Malloy and Beauchamp eagerly anticipate their upcom­ing terms and the agenda to which they will attend. According to Beauchamp, the top priorities for the next term will be those outlined in the Colloquy for the Year 2000. 
"Our goals and aspirations can be found in the blueprint 
the specifics in it." 

With respect to his forthcom­ing term with Malloy, Beauchamp expressed his ex­citement at serving another five years with the president. 
"It has been a wonderful eight going on nine years. Fa­ther Malloy is a great leader and person to share responsi­bility with. The new opportunities facing us over the next seven years will pro­vide us new challenges to deal with and we look forward to it," stated Beauchamp. 
In addition to the re-election of Malloy and Beauchamp, the Board of Trustees appointed Andrew McKenna, of Win­netka. IL., to a two-year term as chairman of the board. 


Is it the sound of that whispery voice, or those big, intellectual words? If your professors are putting you 
to sleep, Revive with Vivarin~ Don't let fatigue get the best of you. Vivarin's® the safe way to stay mentally alert, with the same caffeine as about two cups of coffee. so stay sharp in class. Don't sleep your way to the bottom. 
@1995 SD~::!::~s=:~~m Each tablet contains 200 mg of caffeine, equal to about two cups of coffee. Use only as directed. 

---~-----------~--­
Tuesday, October 24, 1995 THE OBSERVER page 5 
On Octo er 13, 

•

ost a goo_ 
rten . 


i:Ask not /or whom the bell tolls. It tolls /or thee." 

Keeping Up With Its Tradition OfBringing You The Very Best The Notre Dame African Students' Association Proudly Presents: 
A GIANT AFRICAN J\.'\ODERN MUSIC CONCERT & DANCING 
Featuring: 
Foday Musa Suso and the Mandingo Griot Society 
... The Gambia (West Mrica) 
With ...  
Date: Thursday October 26, 1995  Foday Suso on the Kora  
Time: 7:00 P.M.  Chuck Hosch on the Bass  
Venue: Stepan Center Admission: General •••.•. $5.00 Students .•... $3.00  Abdul Haakem on the Guitar Avreeayl Raamen on the Drums Koco Brunson on the Keyboard Manu Washington on the Congas  
Come enjoy yourself and dance to the rhythms ofSuso & The Mandingo as they daringly project the music ofAfrica's Past into the  Tickets available at the LaFortune Information Desk, Peace Institute, and the Center for Social Concerns  
music ofthe world's future!  
Do Not Miss This Unique Opportunt  The Finest Music from Africa!  

Sponsored by the Notre Dame African Students' Association & Various Campus Institutions 
Check it out on our web a e: h :llwww.nd.edu:BOI~ndasalsuso.html 
r---------------~--~-------~~----­
page 6 The Observer • NEWS 


Mullins receives promotion 
Special to The Observer 
Roger Mullins, director of human resources at the Uni­versity of Notre Dame since 1985, has been promoted to as­
sociate vice president for h u m a n resources, according to Fr. William Beauchamp, t h e University's 

e x e c u t i v e Mullins vice pres­ident. 
Mullins, who as director has reported to Thomas Mason, the University's vice president for 
• RESIDENCE HAU. ASSOGIATIOM 
Alcohol awareness tops discussion 
By HEATHER CROSS NewsWrirer 

The Saint Mary's Residence Hall Association (RHA) met to discuss Alcohol Awareness Week and to decide on a policy that would override the infa­mous "ten o'clock rule" at their last meeting. 
A majority of the discussion focused on the current Alcohol Awareness Week. An esti­mated 300 students took a pledge yesterday to not use al­cohol for the entire week. On Friday. those students will be treated to a movie at the Uni­versity Park East Cinema cour­tesy of the RHA. 
Today's activities include a lunch discussion and an evening lecture. The discussion about Saint Mary's alcohol business affairs, will retain that reporting relationship until Ma­son's retirement as vice presi­dent in August 1996. 
When Mason retires, Mullins will report directly to Fr. Beauchamp. 
As the chief administrator of human resources for the Uni­versity, Mullins directs all activities relating to employ­ment. compensation and bene­fits, affirmative action in employee hiring, employee relations, and employee train­ing and development, as well as the University's wellness pro­grams. He was the architect of recent major changes in Notre Dame's benefits programs, notably the adoption of a pre­
issues will be held from noon to 1 p.m. today in the Wedge Room of the dining hall. Tonight Saint Mary's senior Laura Richter will be "Speaking from Experience" about the ef­fects of alcohol. Richter's speech will begin at 7 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge. 
Tomorrow's events include a study break, which will be held from 8-9 p.m. in the LeMans lobby. Pumpkin bread and ap­ple cider will be served. Stu­dents are then invited to work off the snack with aerobics to the music of Linebacker, which starts at 9:30 p.m. in the An­gela Athletic Facility. 
On Thursday. the RHA and the Saint Mary's Board of Gov­ernance (BOG) invited students to celebrate with "Friends" which will be shown in the ren­

ferred provider health care option. 
Mullins also was a prime mover in the development of the University's on-campus child care facility and last week announced a major review of the job classification system to address issues such as mobility, advancement and equity of pay among various job categories. 
Prior to his appointment with the University, Mullins was vice president for human resources at Elkhart General Hospital. 
A 1991 graduate of Notre Dame's executive MBA pro­gram, he earned his bachelor's degree in 1969 from Ball State University. He is a native of Anderson, IN. 
ovated Haggar snack bar and the festivities begin at 6:45 p.m. Game day will begin with a doughnuts and juice breakfast in the lobbies of all the resi­dence halls at 10 a.m. To con­clude Alcohol Awareness Week, the RHA invites students to Regina Hall Chapel for mass at 9p.m. 
In other RHA news: 
•The members of RHA passed a trial plan that will change the mandatory arrival time of hall dances from 10 p.m. to 11 p.m. The conditions of this policy are that all purses and jackets will be searched by ticket takers to insure that no alcohol is brought to the dance. Students who break this rule will have their dance privileges taken away for the remainder of the academic year. 
Tuesday, October 24, 1995 
The University of Notre Dame has received a $2,500 scholarship from the J. Edgar Hoover Memorial Scholarship program of the Society of Former Special Agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Inc. 
The scholarship is a gift from John Miller, an FBI agent from 1951-75. Miler's grandson, Kelly Puzio, is a Notre Dame junior from Dearborn, MI. 
Notre Dame's president, 
Rev. Edward Malloy, accepted a check for the scholarship from Miller and Cal Black, a regional vice president for the society, at a ceremony on campus. 
The society has made 108 awards to American colleges and universities since the Hoover Memorial Scholarship began in 1978. 
The scholarship will be ad­ministered by the University's office of financial aid and will be awarded to a deserving undergraduate student in need of financial assistance. 
;by Security to Saint Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a laceration. 
11:44 a.m. A Carroll Hall resident reported the theft of his license plate from his vehicle while parked in 006 parking 
2:40 p.m. Two students were removed 
•;from the stadium for drinking alcoholic beverages inside the stadium. 
2:52 p.m. An off-campus student and two visitors were removed from the sta­dium for drinking alcoholic beverages inside the Stadium. 
5:00p.m. An into)(icated person was f removed from the stadium by Security. 
SUN. OCT. 22 

10:S7 a.m. A University employee was transported to Saint Joseph Medical Center for treatment of an illness. 
12:07 p.m. a University Village resi­dent reported the theft of her license plate from her vehicle while parked at University Village. 

Interested in doing graphics for The Observer? Call Tom at 4-1786. 
·---­

Tuesday, October 24, 1995 
The Observer • NEWS 


Yeltsin pledges cooperation 

I 
I I 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 

Caught with his pants down 
Gary Payton gets a lesson in basketball etiquette from Chicago Bulls superstar Michael Jordan. The Bulls lost to the Seattle Supersonics in an exhibition game last night at the JACC. 

U.S. criticized for not paying United Nations 
By ROBERT REID small wrestle with the chal­Associated Press lenges facing the world organi­zation on its 50th anniversary. UNITED NATIONS "The temptation to disengage 
The leaders of Britain and threatens the very existence of France criticized the United the United Nations," President States today for the failure to Jacques Chirac of France said pay its U.N. bills, but they on the second day of cere­backed Washington's calls for a monies marking the anniver­leaner, more efficient United sary. Nations. "It is not acceptable that 
The United Nations' financial many countries, including the 
crisis and the U.S. debts have foremost among them, should 
emerged as major themes as let their arrears pile up." 
leaders of nations large and The United Nations faces the 
worst financial crisis in its 50­year existence. 
Engagement Rings 
10%-15% OFF! Official Wholesale Price list! 

S.A. Peck & Co. SSE. 'Kbshington, Chic11go, IL 60602 
For 11 Fne 32-PIIge Color C..UUog 1011-Fru (800) 922-0090 FAX (312) 977.0248
~ tf•L 
illlemet CIIIDJoglll hap: /lwww.~~~ped:.comiiiJfNtl 
·,> 



''~"' 

Olde Buffalo Inn Bed and Breakfast

., "'"'"' 
.,, "' 
1 061 Parkwood Drive Nappanee, Indiana 46_'50 • 


219-773-2223 1-800-272-2135 

By BARRY SCHWEID Associated Press 
HYDE PARK 

In the sunny splendor of the Hudson Valley, President Clin­ton and Russian President Boris Yeltsin today set out to revive the "spirit of cooperation" that carried their nations to victory in World War 
II. But differ­ences over Bosnia and NATO expan­sion limited expectations of success. 
Meeting at the home of wartime President Franklin D. Roosevelt, the two leaders gazed toward the Catskill Mountains while Yeltsin, mar­veling at the scenery, assured: "We are planning here peace not war." 
"Can we do it?" Yeltsin said in Hussian. But there was no reply from Clinton. who enter­tained his guest with a brief history of how the young FDR went sledding down into the valley. 

"It is a beautiful place," Yeltsin said. 
"I am sure in a place like this there will be nothing we can't resolve." 
Clinton greeted Yeltsin as the Russian leader stepped from a helicopter onto a football-field­size lawn circled by majestic red maples. 
They shook hands and hugged. And together, Yeltsin walking stiffly, they chatted their way to the Roosevelt home for their talks. 
"I don't know how at this landscape there could be plans of war," the Russian leader said as he sat alongside Clinton on wooden-twig chairs set at an angle to catch the best view of the valley below. "Do you come here often?" Yeltsin asked po­litely. 
"No," Clinton replied. 

TOP TEN REASONS TO APPLY FOR THE SAINT MARY's COLLEGE 
ACCELERATED PROGRAM IN NURSING: 
#10 Graduates holding baccalaureate degrees from 
institutions other than Saint Mary's are eligible.  
#9  Students receive individualized attention.  
#8  The faculty is dedicated and professional.  
#7  If you are a woman with a baccalaureate  
degree as of May, 1996, in any major other  
than nursing, you are eligible for the program.  
#6  The classes are small, with an 8: I student to  
professor ratio.  
#5  The focus of ALL classes is nursing.  
#4  There are on-site clinical instructors.  
#3  Through this program, you will earn a B.S.  
degree in Nursing from the#} ranked  
Saint Mary's College.  
#2  This is the only program of its type in the region.  
#1  You will receive your B.S. degree in Nursing  
in only 13 months. (Program begins May 28,  
1996, and ends in July of 1997.)  

APPLICATION DEADLINE: jANUARY 15, 1996 
fOR MORE INFORMATION, CONTACT HEATHER MORICONI IN THE ADMISSION OFFICE AT 219/284-4587 

-1%4­
SAINT 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, IN 
"It is a beautiful place," Yeltsin said. "It was a good idea to have our meeting here." 
Asked if they could solve their 
differences over Bosnia, the 
Hussian leader said he would 
discuss the divisive issue with 
Clinton and that "very difficult 
problems" were involved. 
Trying to take the edge off 
the disagreement. White House 
press secretary Mike McCurry 
said they were concentrating 
on achieving a peace accord in 
the former Yugoslav republic. 
"First things first," he said. 
It was their ninth in a series of meetings that began in April 1993 in Vancouver, Canada. 
The selection of Hyde Park contributed a symbolic touch, and the chairs Clinton and Yeltsin sat in to overlook the landscape had been used dur­ing World War II by Roosevelt and British Prime Minister Winston Churchill. 
Clinton also entered today's meeting predisposed to a com­promise on provisions of a 1990 treaty calling for reductions in NATO and former Warsaw Pact tanks, artillery, aircraft, heli­copters and armored vehicles by mid-November. 
The idea is to ease limits on Hussia's northern and southern borders so it can deal more easily with secessionist move­ments. 
Also, national security advis­er Anthony Lake suggested Sunday that the Russians may play a civilian role alongside 
U.S. and other ground troops under NATO command. 
Yeltsin, in his speech Sunday to the United Nations, said Rus­sia was ready to provide troops, and White House spokesman Mike McCurry said the adminis­tration still wanted Russian participation. 
But Yeltsin complained the 
U.N. Security Council had been bypassed in the U.S.-led initia­tive to end the war in Bosnia­Herzegovina. And in a thrust at NATO expansion, he said "strengthening of one bloc to­day means a new confrontation beginning tomorrow." 
That followed his blast last week in Moscow at NATO's ex­pansion plans, saying the result could be two blocs. 
He also signaled he would fire Foreign Minister Andrei V. Kozyrev, a moderate. but Kozyrev accompanied him here and met Saturday night with Secretary of State Warren Christopher to plan the Hyde Park meeting. 
~ 
, SUB CANNOT CONTROL THOSE WHO MAY DESIRE T<ttPLAY IS TO LAYER LIKE MAD AND WEAR YOUR BEST SKIWIES. 

~­

page 8 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, October 24, 1995 
The West Quad residence halls will cost approximately
Homicides down in 1994 Welsh the same amount for construc­


By CHRISTOPHER CONELL putting more officers on the Associated Press streets in high-crime neigh­borhoods has paid off. WASHINGTON But James Alan Fox, a North­
Homicides. declined last year eastern University criminal jus­while suicides increased, but tice expert, argues it was due both still exact a heavy toll mostly to the aging of the baby among young men, a federal boom generation, the youngest health agency reported Mon­of whom are now in their 30s. day. He cautioned that the num­
The 8 percent drop in the bers hide "a tremendous homicide rate marked the third growth in the rate of killing straight year it has fallen, the among young adults and teen­National Center for Health agers.... Right now, 4,000 teen­Statistics said. agers commit murders each 
Vice President AI Gore, open­year. Ten or 15 years ago, it ing a three-day conference in was less than 1,000." Des Moines, Iowa, on pre­And the homicide problem venting violence, called that could worsen, Fox said, as the "encouraging news." by 7.6 percent because the gen­number of teen-agers jumps 23 
But the 23,730 homicides in eral population increased over percent over the next decade as 1994-down from 25,470 in the year. the baby boomers' children 1993 -"are still far too The homicide rate was far grow up. many," he said. Of those vic­more grim for 15-to 24-year­Gore urged that programs to tims, 29 percent were young old males, 6, 790 of whom were deter violence, enacted in last males. slain last year. year's crime bill, be preserved 
Gore noted that homicide re­That translates to a rate of 37 against Republican budget-cut­mains the second leading killer per 100,000. ting efforts, saying, "If we are for young Americans, ages 15 The combined suicide and going to make progress, we are to 24, and the third for young homicide rate for young males going to have to be willing stay children, ages 5 to 14. was 63 per 100,000. the course. These solutions 
The number of suicides, The figures came from the work." 
meanwhile, rose last year to center's annual summary of Homicide fell from lOth to 32,410, up from 31,230 in births, deaths and other vital 11th place on the list of leading 1993. The rate was 12.4 per statistics. They are provisional, causes of U.S. deaths, account­100,000 people, up from 12.1 meaning they are based on a ing for 1 percent of the 2.3 mil­the previous year. sample of 10 percent of birth lion deaths in 1994. 
For young males, ages 15 to and death certificates. The leading killer was heart 24, the suicide rate was 26 per Several major cities, includ­disease, which claimed 734,000 100,000 people, more than ing New York, Detroit, Chicago lives or 32 percent. The other double the overall rate and and Los Angeles, have reported top 10 causes were: cancers triple the rate for young males a sharp decline in their number 537,000, 24 percent; strokes in the 1950s. The rate for fe­of murders. New York has said 154,000, 7 percent; pulmonary males that age was 3.2 per its toll this year could be 48 diseases 102,000, 5 percent; 
100,000 in 1994. percent below its worst year, accidents 90,000, 4 percent; 
The overall homicide rate fell 1990, when 2,245 people were pneumonia and influenza from 10.5 slayings per 100,000 killed there. 82,000; 4 percent; diabetes people in 1993 to 9.7 in 1994, The national center didn't melitus 55,000, 2 percent; HIV the report said. Although the speculate on the cause of the infection, 42,000, 2 percent; number of killings declined by falling homicide rate. Some po­suicide 32,400, 1 percent, and 
6.8 percent, the rate dropped lice departments say that liver disease 26,000, 1 percent. 
-


continued from page 1 
Health Systems. 

Construction of Welsh Hall began this fall on West Quad in addition to the construction of Keough and O'Neill Halls, as well as a second, as yet un­named women's hall. 
According to Dennis Brown, assistant director of Public Relations and Inform11tion, spe­cific designs for the dorm are not yet in place, but the hall will be similar in structure to Keough and O'Neill Halls. 
tion, according to Brown. 

"It [Welsh Hall] will be right in the same ballpark as Keough and O'Neill which is about ten million dollars per dorm," he stated. 
"But this does not necessarily mean that the gift from the Welsh family is ten million dol­lars." · 
Residents of Planner Hall will be moved to Siegfried and Knott Halls when the new womens' dorms open on West Quad in 1997. 


Herro 
continued from page 1 
last month, the report said. The sexual misconduct charges were brought to cover 
the time after the boy turned 14 because child molestation charges in Indiana apply only to children under 14. 
University officials declined to comment on the charges. 
The South Bend Tribune con­tributed to this report. 
Rec~cle The Obsei""Vel"" 
the University of Notre Dame Department of Music 
~ presents 
}~\ 
DAVID CARTER, cello 
with NANCY PADDLEFORD1 piano

~ 
{ 
7:00p.m. 

Thursday, 26 October Annenberg Auditorium, the Snite Museum of Art 
Free and 

Let your educated mind and heart be alight in the darkness of the world. Be bridge builders over the chasms that separate people, the young and old, the rich and poor, the black and white, the ignorant and the learned. Go out from here as one who knows and loves, one who has cherished wisdom and built character, and, above all, one who has learned to give of self. 
Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. President Emeritus, University of Notre Dame 
Deanna L. Canl<ar
Marcia Del Rios 

Congratulations and thanks to the over 180 participants in 
StaC\• Carel Patrick FIScher Rachael Downey 
Davld A Oairmont Amanda J. Groner Matthcw Dull Olristine M. 1-Wey Michael A. Gaglia Luisa L Heredia Katw Hogan

The Appalachia Seminar 
jessica Howie Kcvm Hutciunson Uberty Joy Jones 
Stacie jonas Daniel E. Ledezma Patrick Kcnn\" 

The Washington Seminar 
Megan Leverence Ryan M. Lvnch Lisa Lungren Sarah A McDonald Traci MacNamara Megan McHugh Elizabeth Mandile Maciej M. Mrugala

The Cultural Diversity Seminar 
Tneresa Nclt Pedro Sanchez Rebecca Petersen 
Colin O'Neil Paula Shannon Andrea Ray Latrecia Wilson 
Erin Ann Scanlon 

who represented The University of Notre Dame and Saint 
Jason Schoettler TunHipp 
Kell v Sulewski Ryan Murphy 
Greg Van Slambrook AI& Andreichuk Theresa Vithayathil Heather [);,ughtery 
Mary's College during Fall Break in service and experiential 
learning at fourteen sites across the nation. 
Brad Harmon Tara Naughton Michelle Frasier 

Patrick Abell Deborah Case Kirsten Firla AnneHoos Crisbn L'Esperance Brittney Nystrom Monica L. Price Jennifer Sutton Gabriele T. Abowd Patricia Caulfield Abigail Fleming Christine Hourican jennifer Lamprecht Catherm~ O'Brien Tom Purekal Bridget Sweeney Mary jo Adams Margaret Olance Jennifer George Jennifer jocz Sean LaSaUe Terr""'" J. O'llnen Mehs.'la Radev Annt• Theriea\J 
Leecia Anderson Amy c. Chaput Heather Gibson Amy E. johnson Erin Luedecking Olervl M. O'llnen Michael F. Re.•chart Karen Thompson 
D. jason Arnold Camille Ointon james R. Gilmartin jessica H. )ones Tania Macioce I<ar;A. O"Connell J ulJc E. Rogers Beth Townsend Sarah Asmuth Page Coerver Katherine Giovannon• Stacey Kamar Anna M. Manion Patricia O'Connor Dyan K. Rohol Anne Vales Katie S. Bagley Patricia A. Connell Richard Glatz Karen KapWIIlak I.sabelaMarchi Mandi C. O'Donnell Robert E. Ryan, m Peter Van de North Tunothy j. Bayne Corinne D. Cook Olristine Grady Kerry Keane Becky Mayernik Peter O"Oonnell Rebeccah A. Sanders Andrew P. Venosa Nick Becker Kelly Comelis Gail E. Gray Heather A. Kell)· Sarah McGreeY)· Katie O'Mar• Carl C. Schwab )essJca Ward Kathryn Be!lch jennifer C. Cowherd AmyR.Green Heather Kennev Molly McLaughlin Karen L B. Pahed Eileen Scully Jennifer A Webcr Katie Bisson Michael Cusumario Kristin Grothoff Karen Mane K~mey Mary McShane V!Shal Pahwa Mlchael Sheh!l" jennifer We~gel Sara Boblick Kami Davidson Mehssa E. Hanna Thomas Kilroy Sheila Meehan Mia Pavlik Karen A. Shopoff Kristin White Thomas D. Bradshaw Mary Deitsch Colleen Henshaw Katie Kirk Seth M. Messner Matthew E. Peacock Catherine Simmons Brandi D. Wilson Ryan Brown Christopher Dobranski jennifer S. Hill Mark Kiser Brenna Moore Sonia Pelletreau Beth S. Skaliclcy Chris Wilson DianaLBuran Nancy R. Dons Mari C. Hirano Brian Klausner Lori Mrowl<a Erica Peterson Aaron Smith Laurie Winclco Karen M. Cak Jason Dorwart Jay Hofner julie Koenig Bridget C. Murphy John A. Polk Ellen E. Sova Maria-Valeri Wuebker Sara Canzoniero Dana Duman Deana M. Hogan ) ulie Kozdras Bridget Nelson john Potter Lauren Stein Darcy K. Yaley Fernando S. Carreira Elizabeth Dwyer J<ara Hogan Kurt Krebs Sara Nienaber Andrew Powell Laurie Stride Mollie K. Zito 


~-~~~---------­





VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, October 24, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
E.dilor-in-Chicf 
john Lucas 
Managing Editor Bwinc:as Manager 
Elizabeth Regan jo«ph Riley 
Ncwo Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... john Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ......................Jcn Mackowiak Spons E.ditor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor .........................KriS[a Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary'• Editor .................... Patti Carson Observer Marketing Dircctor..........Petc: Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the U niversiry of Notre Dame du l.otc and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­10ria4 represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. CommC"marin, lc:rtcrs and Inside Columns prc:sem the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available ro all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary';com­muniry and to all rc:oders. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• DIFFERENT PERSPECTIVES 
Racial fences divide Notre Dame community 
Walls and fences intrigue me. In our society, fences and walls are sacred. When somebody puts up a fence, there is rarely a thought by others to cross it. The fence is there and that is that. Go around, but don't cut through. Anyone who jumps a fence does so with hesita­tion. They check all around to make sure no one is watching. There is an inherent feeling that this is a wrong thing to do. 
Such status may explain my odd fasci­nal.ion with a recurring scene. Picture an endless wall, in a foreign country, crusted with barbed wire. Suddenly, men, women and children fanatically try to scale it, even an 
patrolmen rifle to­wards them, no doubt to arrest or kill them. Where mere picket fences Melvin would deter some, such grand walls are 
Tardy

merely in the way. Whenever I see such a scene, and realize the risk they are tak­
ing, I ask myself, what makes people jump fences? I ask this because it seems there are fences everywhere in our society. 
Hobert Frost. in his famous essay "Mending Wall", makes some interest­ing observations about the fence sepa­rating his yard from that of his neigh­bor. On one hand, he says: 
"Something there is that doesn't love a wall, That sends the ·frozen-ground swell under it, And spills the upper boulders in the sun; And makes gaps even two can abreast." 
Once a year, during "Spring mending­time". he and his neighbor meet to mend the wall, to keep it intact. He demonstrates that walls require dili­gence and effort to maintain. 
On the other hand, he questions his neighbor on the wisdom of having a fence: 
"There where it is we do not need the wall: He is all pine and I am apple orchard. My apple trees will never get across And eat the cones under his pines, I tell him. He only says. 'Good fences make good neighbors.'" 
Perhaps that is why walls are sacred to us, because we believe fences do make good neighbors. However. what can be considered a good neighbor? Is it someone whom you never have to see or speak to, who's concerns are never your own? Could it be that the only time we should meet our good neighbor is when the wall between us needs mending? Like Frost, I often sit and wonder why we need certain walls in our society. 
Some walls are in place for so long, 
we forget they 
exist. Take, for 


example, the so­called "new racial divide" the media have discovered. This wall is not 
new.  It originates  
from  our  coun­ 
try's  incredible  

diversity and unique racial his­
tory. Unlike more homogeneous countries (ie. Japan), our country suffers from internal battles across the "color line." We fight about Affirmative Action, corporate "glass ceilings" and inter-racial relationships. Diversity, which should give us an ad­vantage in a now global marketplace, instead hinders us because of our inability to confront racism. 
Frankly, I'm bewildered that ANYONE could be surprised that America has dif­ferences of opinion polarized along racial lines. Look at Chicago, a city with great racial and ethnic diversity. Despite this, Chicagoans often come to Notre Dame knowing few people outside of their own predominant group. 
Many Chicago schools are as segregat­ed as schools in the 1960's and integra­tion is achieved mainly through force (ie. Affirmative Action). Potential bene­fits from integration are diluted by Eurocentric curricula and because stu­dents go home to segregated neigh­borhoods. Meanwhile, Dr. Martin L. King, Jr.'s observation that our most segregated hour of the week occurs on Sunday during Church services still holds true. 
When we attend different schools, live in separate neighborhoods, and worship in different churches, how can anyone be shocked by continued racial division and tension? We come to Notre Dame with our walls already in place, along with stockpiles of bricks, mortar and barbed wire for "Spring mending-time". 
In the dining halls, you can see the walls in action. While there are some exceptions, holistically you'll find "group segregation." I don't think, for example, the European Americans sitting togeth­er like this consciously choose to do so. Perhaps they are reacting to walls built by their parents and reinforced (mend­ed) by the media and politicians. To again quote Frost: 
"Bringing a stone grasped firmly by the top In each hand, like an old-stone savage armed. He moves in darkness as it seems tome, Not of woods only and the shade of trees. He will not go behind his father's saying, And he likes having though of it so well He says it again, 'Good fences make good neigh­bors.'" 
The dining halls are no different than Chicago or New York. 
Certainly, who can blame people for preferring to sit with their friends to talk about classes, problems, girls, guys, whatever. But the walls of society are steadfastly in place. No gaps for one, let alone two, to pass through. 
Clearly, however, there is strength and richness in diversity. Who would want a football team with 21 punters and a quarterback? Diversity can also spark creativity. Imagine joining resources, brainstorming to solve our internal recall conflicts. From those efforts, leaders would emerge that could use those ideas to help build bridges ­not walls -to resolve disputes in other areas of the world. 
Notre Dame could do something to bring the walls of racism down. Take the recent $20 million investment in computers. ND could have put a grand statement in Du Lac saying: "We will not tolerate fear of computers!", complete with appropriate penalties for those horrible people found to be ignorant or fearful of computers. Instead, ND said "We will not tolerate computer illit­eracy, because our students will not be prepared for tomorrow's work environ­ments", then ND put computers every­where and make computer instruction a mandatory component of all freshmen English classes. If ND would only use the latter approach to deal with "racial illiteracy", we would have fewer prob­lems with race relations. 
The media have rediscovered the racial divide because there are gaps in it. My fear is that we will take it as a clarion call to meet our neighbor, as our parents before us, only to mend our racial and ethnic walls. As Christians, we must refuse to so that! Otherwise, after college, we go back into our respective communities no wiser to pre­vent our children from perpetuating the existing division, the existing hatred. It would be more than an opportunity lost. As Christians, I feel it would be a sin. Jesus calls us to love our neighbor as ourselves, but you cannot ever really know yourself if you don't know your neighbor. 
Think about your roommates, your home neighborhood, your former school, your church. Take a look at the neighborhoods you pass through to get to your home. Think about those best friends you hope to see again during Christmas bread. Begin to see the walls and realize that, as Frost indirectly points out, it takes more energy to keep mending those walls than to tear them down. 
But let's not wait for the walls to fall on their own. I, for one, continue to ask: what makes people jump fences? For all their grandness, they are merely in my way. 
Melvin R. Tardy '86, '90. is Assistant Director of Admissions. His e-mail address is melvin.r.tardy.l@nd.edu 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• 000NESBURY 
8lfT I KNOW IT'S 60/N6 7D H&LP HeR JI.ETHAVIN6 
IT YOU ff&R.&. ITaRTAIN~Y 
00&~? 
M&AN'3 TH& /QORJ,IJ 77J M&-, MAN ... I 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Ahen is only an egg's way of making another egg." 
-Samuel Butler 

VIEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, October 24, 1995 
• AND IN THIS CORNER 
The Show-$1,000,000 and counting... 
"lAThat I did with my Notre Dame V V Fall Break, or, How to waste a full week without even trying." 
This would have been the headline of this week's column, but it was a tad too long. 
Needless to say, I spent most of last week engrossed in what is somewhat pompously known as the Fall Classic, that wonderfully misnamed champi­onship series of baseball, pitting the American League's best team against the National League's. This year's World series is being marketed as something special, the culmination of the "return of baseball" from a devastating strike which ended last season. 
But perhaps I 
made it to the World Series with little difficulty. Some argue that the wildcard "races" generate more excitement and a more interesting post-season for more fans, but all the additional games really generate is additional ticket and televi­sion revenue for the owners. 
Which brings me to the financial debate of basebalL The new playoff sys­tem should have been the big news this season, but the real big news is that he season was played at all. 
Last year I was among the many base­ball fans who were annoyed by the sea­son-ending strike. Fans are still annoyed at baseball, as evidenced by a marked decrease in stadium attendance for 
practically every 
should first explain team. The owners the baseball play­and players still offs and its' finan-do not have a cial situation for new bargaining those who tried to agreement, and ignore the hoopla the criticism of
Matthew Apple
(as much as I tried the "millionaires to ignore O.J). fighting billion­The "big new aires" has not thing" in baseball subsided. What is 
B
this year should have been the new divisional alignment. From 1969 through 1993, each major league was divided into two divisions, East and West, whose leaders at the end of the year would play a best of five, later best of seven series, with the win­ners meeting in the World Series. This year, with three divisions in each league, a fourth team in each league would have a spot in the playoffs, the new "wildcard spot", borrowing the con­cept from the NFL. Whereas before four teams made it to the playoffs, this year there were eight. This is still nowhere near the number of yearly playoff­bound teams in the NFL (twelve), the NBA (sixteen, I think), and the NHL (some ungodly number). ecause of this new wildcard sce­nario, the baseball playoffs now last the entire month of October. A seventh game of the World Series, barring any rainouts or errant earthquakes, would be played on October 29th, a frigid date for any northern city. And despite an additional five-game series (dubbed the "two tier system" by sportscasters) the best teams in baseball, the Cleveland Indians and the Atlanta Braves, still 
B
surprising is how few people have bothered to put this financial debate into proper perspective. aseball, like all other professional sports leagues, is part of the enter­tainment industry, just as are the film producers, the media, the book publish­ers, and the music producers. Baseball players, like movie actors and rock musicians, are essentially employees of the industry bosses. But unlike actors, writers, and musicians, sports players are not treated as if they are talented individuals who deserve to be compen­sated for the revenue they provide for their team owners. 
Until the 1970's, baseball players were basically not allowed to play for another team, unless traded or sold like prop­erty. In fact, they were legally consid­ered property, in part due to baseball's unique anti-trust exemption granted them by the U.S. Congress some time ago. Until St. Louis outfielder Curt Flood refused a trade to Philadelphia in 1970, declaring himself a "free agent" (the first time the phrase was used in con­nection with sports), no one had thought to seriously challenge the baseball own­ers since the turn of the century. Then, 
I
after free-agency became established contractual fact, with the help of the ever-greedy George Steinbrenner and the advent of the decadent Eighties' media explosion, team owners had even more money to burn. and began to lure the best players with higher-paying con­tracts. In other words, the owners are to blame for the multi million dollar sports contracts today. n 1994, the average baseball player salary was listed at over a million dol­lars. The base salary for a rookie was $140,000, and not that many players make even $500,000, so it stands to rea­son that this "average" figure is a very misleading one. However, when com­pared to other employees of the enter­tainment industry; baseball players make near to nothing. Movie stars annu­ally bring in millions of dollars­Sylvester Stallone, for example, was given $20 million last year before he even knew what the movie was and before the script had even been written. Jay Leno and David Letterman make millions for their nighttime TV talk shows, and they're not even funny. Oprah Winfrey made over $100 million last year and is listed as the richest woman in America-yet on the list of the richest Americans, she barely cracked the top 50. Care to wager who is on that top 50 list? A Ted Turner or Adolph Coors, perhaps? Maybe even one George Bush, Jr., current owner of the Texas Rangers and Governor of Texas, responsible for bilking taxpayers of half a trillion S & L dollars and getting away scot-free thanks to his dear Daddy Warbucks? 
Movie stars and the like are allowed to make millions in the public eye because they appear to be classy, because they are the royalty of America. Sports play­ers, on the other hand, can be seen reg­ularly on TV spitting, sweating, scratch­ing themselves, and getting dirty and grimy just like anyone else. Yet they make just as much money, if not more, for their team owners as a Stallone or a Jagger and still do not receive the same industry consideration for physical tal­ent that a Tom Hanks will for a flat, cardboard "filmic" still-life upper-class visage. 
Even compared to other sports play­ers, baseball players are far behind in 
T
wage earnings. Basketball stars such as Michael Jordan and Shaquille O'Neal opposed the recent NBA players' agree­ment because it would limit their prod­uct endorsements to $40 million per year. The Dallas Cowboys recently signed a five-year contract with corner­back Deion Sanders for $35 million, plus a $12 million bonus. No wonder he doesn't want to play for the Cincinnati Reds anymore. And how many baseball players wind up on McDonald's Super­size cups with Looney Tunes charac­ters? he funny thing is, despite all the neg­ative reactions they receive from sports fans, millionaire blue collar work­ers still work as hard as anyone in the "normal" work place and take pride in what they do. Cubs' second baseman Ryne Sandberg could have made seven million last year,-but his legendary phys­ical skills were deteriorating, and rather than disappoint his fans with sub-par performance, Sandberg retired to allow a younger, more physically active player to take his spot in the lineup. Some call it arrogance. I call it class. And I'm not even a Cubs' fan. 
What's more, sports stars contribute a substantial percentage of their income to charities-not out of a sense of guilt or a "placate the poor" feeling that so many of the wealthy upper-class tweed­wearing union have, but because most if not all of these sports stars honestly care. They grew up in the Poor Americas, North and South, and they know what it's like, how hard it is to get ahead, how few· opportunities there really are, how many young people in this hemisphere are taken advantage of by large, faceless, money corporations and left for dead, or worse. If someone is going to make millions of dollars every year, I would rather have hard­working employees receive the hull's share and help their relatives. friends and neighbors of the eternal lower class than have multi-billionaire owners hoard and subscribe to the elitist trick­ling down the drain theory. 
So how's about those Braves? 

Matthew Apple is a creative writing graduate student at Notre Dame. He can be reached at matthew.t.applel@nd.edu for inane baseball trivia. 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Lecture sponsors clarify Adams misconceptions 
Dear Editor: Notre Dame in no way reflects 
We are writing in response to an opinion of our organizations some inaccuracies which or the University. We encour­appeared in the Oct. 12, 1995 age the Notre Dame communi­issue of The Observer in an ty to become informed, to article regarding the Gerry question, discuss and debate Adams lecture. this issue and all issues which 
Contrary to the statements in arise on campus. After all, the article, Adams' lecture is that is exactly what true edu­co-sponsored by the Student cation entails. Union Board, Student Activities We acknowledge and under­Office and the Student stand that many students and Government. These three orga­faculty members have unique nizations commonly sponsor concerns regarding this lec­lectures and debates which ture. We have addressed these facilitate discussion of societal same questions ourselves and and University issues on cam­regret only that the informa­pus. We often host political tion was misrepresented in The speakers of both national and Observer. The speaking fees international prominence and associated with Adams; visit do not shy away from contro­are paid to the agency helping versial issues. When we were arrange the lecture and to approached with the offer to Friends of Sinn Fein, a non­bring Gerry Adams to speak, profit organization with offices we felt the opportunity was too in New York and Washington. and American media sources tion expenses. great to ignore. The conflict Friends of Sinn Fein is regis­in the United States only. Again, we invite and encour­between Northern Ireland and tered with the U.S. Justice Additionally, Friends of Sinn age the Notre Dame communi­Great Britain is one which Department and is therefore Fein lobbies the U.S. Federal ty to attend the lecture and to affects many Notre Dame stu­subject to audits and inspec­government for support of Irish provide informed, intelligent dents and their families. tions the same as any other efforts to protect human rights discussion of Mr. Adams' visit Furthermore, we feel that even non-profit organization. and rebuild the economically and the issues surrounding his students and faculty not direct­Contributions are used to offset depraved and war ravaged visit through all campus media. ly affected by the conflict the administrative costs of regions of Ireland. should be aware of political, operating these two offices. While there is an admission JULIE WALLMAN religious and ethical concerns The offices are responsible for fee for this and all lectures on Student Union Board which face the world outside of promoting the establishment of campus of similar magnitude, KEVINK.LAU our campus. As with any polit­peace in Ireland by providing a the proceeds from ticket sales Student Activities ical speaker, however, the communication link between are typically just enough to JONATHAN PATRICK presence of Gerry Adams at Irish-American organizations cove-r advertising and promo-Student Government 

No money 
should go 
to Adams 
DearEditon 

l am writing regarding the Observer cover story of October 12, in protest, concerning the upcoming visit of Gerry Adams. head of Sinn Fein. For the record. I am neither Catholic nor Protestant, and I have no vested interest in who runs Northern Ireland. I have no 'objection to Mr Adams' visit. I would like very much to hear what he has to say. However, . the.Irish Republican Army has a twenty year Wstory of killing people; and one year of not­. killing~people is not enough to 
· merit either my admiration or my money. I think that itis out of line for the Notre Dame Student Union Board or the University to ask anyone to help fmance the IRA, or its lob­byists, in order to hear this man speak. I am willing to give Mr. Adams and his cause a hearing. I am absolutely not willing to pay him for the privi· lege. 
CAROL ANN UND Graduate Student in Art History Fischer Graduate Residence 
Notre Dame usc 
38-10 
The Irish were stellar on 
third down. converting 15 of 20 while the Trojans were a below-par() or 14. 

Football 
1995 

Boisterous 'Backers 
Kory Minor's safety was just one of many gems turned in by Notre Dame linebackers. 
-see page 3 


onquest 
Irish use overwhelming offense, 
dominating defense to keep 
Trojan winless curse to thirteen 

By MIKE NORBUT 
Sporrs Ediwr 
As the final seconds ticked off the clock Saturday, Irish students symbolically flooded the rain-soaked field of Notre Dame Stadium. 
And for good reason. They had just watched the flood gates open on Southern Cal in the second half, as Notre Dame rolled to a convincing 38-10 victory over the fifth-ranked Trojans. 
"This is our biggest win since Florida State," offensive guard Ryan Leahy said. "USC is USC. It's the biggest rivalry in the country." 
Notre Dame's 31-24 win over the Seminoles in 1993 marked the last time Irish students touched grass after a game. Boston College and Michigan fans had enjoyed that privilege the past two years. 
"We knew coming in that this game is always a special one," Irish coach Lou Holtz said. "It 
see IRISH I page 2 

• Jock Strip 
Poll positioning gives something to ponder 
T
here 
a r e 

some things in life that just make you sit back, scratch your head, and wonder. 
L-T_i_m_S_h:::..e;...rm---'-an---l 
The mean-
Associate Sports 
ing of life, the Editor existence of God, and the USA Today/CNN football coaches' poll are just a few examples. The latter, in particular is one that's due for some philosophical musings. 
The poll is stupid. Warped, biased, and ignorant would probably fit as well, but just plain stupid says it well enough. 
Think of the conc11pt for a moment. Having an educated opinion on the quality of 107 football teams is rather diffi­cult. Sure, there are people out there in America who pore over all available news­papers, glue themselves to the various shows such as College GameDay, and even surf the hauntingly addictive Internet in search of more in-depth information about America's 
see SHERMAN I page 3 


page 2 
Irish 'Trojan Horse' offense conquers USC 
By TIM SEYMOUR 
Associate Sports Editor 
Obscure references to the sacking of Troy by the Greeks eons ago are requi­site in any discussion of a Notre Dame ­USC game, and in this vein, the Notre Dame offensive game plan can be depicted in military terms appropriate to that ancient period -divide and con­quer. 
Indeed, after the game the talk focused on the military-like precision with which the Irish proceeded to pick 

The Observer/Mike Ruma Tight end Pete Chryplewicz was an integral piece in the Irish's victory. 
"Their football team came out and executed their offense very well," stated Southern Cal head coach John Robinson. "They had a plan for us. We've seen a lot of finesse offenses and today we saw one power at us." 
"We'd like to think (that) you really can't stop us if we execute," agreed Irish head coach Lou Holtz. "If you look at our football team individually, there may be a guy here or a guy there (per­forming exceptionally), but overall, the guys are accepting their roles and play­ing well." 
What Notre Dame did execute so well was one of the more diverse and cre­ative game plans in recent memory. 
A variety of screens, counters, and even a fullback to quarterback pass were coupled with an effective option attack to keep the highly rated Southern California defense guessing throughout the game. 
Often criticized for his tunnel-vision toward senior receiver Derrick Mayes, Ron Powlus was a model of equity, mak­ing sure everyone got in the act. 
"We had to spread the ball around," Powlus explained. "Their linebackers were up on Derrick, so we had to mix it up." 
The most grateful beneficiary of the more varied game plan were the tight ends. Often overlooked in Irish sets, the senior combination of Pete Chryplewicz and Leon Wallace was an integral part of the Notre Dame victory, catching a combined five passes for 45 yards and a touchdown. 
Especially effective were two tight end screens that perpetuated first half scor­ing drives. The Trojan Horse of football plays, the USC defensive line was lured into the Irish backfield on both occa­sions only to watch a wide-open Chryplewicz sneak behind them for easy gains. 
The Observer/Rob Finch Freshman Autry Denson has picked up right where an injured Randy Kinder left off. The tailback scampered for 103 against a statistically strong Trojan defense. 
"We figured the tight ends would be there, and they were for some big screens," said Powlus. 
"The coaches have gained a new respect for us (the tight ends)," added Chryplewicz. "We put some plays in this week that we thought we'd use." 
The triple option was also effective against the often over-zealous Trojan defense. 
"We felt that they would jump on Marc (fullback Marc Edwards) up the middle," stated Powlus. "That's exactly what the option is for." 
Looking more comfortable with the play than he has in the past, Powlus and tailback Autry Denson were repeatedly able to beat USC's linebackers to the corners. 
During crucial situations, though, it was not finesse or execution that pro­pelled the Irish, but rather brute strength. With Mayes and the passing game serving primarily as a foil, it was the power rushing that carried Notre Dame. 
Four touchdowns were scored on hard fought crusades through the middle, three by Edwards and the other by Denson. USC, previously surrendering only 81 yards per game on the ground, was torched by the Irish for more than twice that. 
"We feel like we can run at everyone," said Denson. "We're becoming more comfortable every down." 
Irish 
continued from page 1 
was a complete team effort and it cer­tainly was a great win. I know how down-hearted Southern Cal must feel, because this game means so much to both sides." 
For the Irish, it means a distinct possi­bility, if not probability, that they will make an appearance in a major bowl game. 
For the Trojans, the loss means a sea­son down the drain. National Championship hopes faded as fast as USC's 7-6 first quarter lead. Emotions ran as low as their ten-point total indi­cated. 
"There's not much I can say," Southern Cal coach John Robinson said. "It was obvious. We played a very bad game and Notre Dame played a very good game." 
It makes thirteen straight years that the two teams have played without a Trojan victory. They tied 17-17 last sea­son. USC's last win came in 1982 against a 6-4-1 Gerry Faust-led team. 
"You can flip a coin thirteen times and get heads every time," Holtz said. "But the 14th time you flip it, you'll still have a 50-50 chance of it being tails." 
But for the Irish, it came up heads, but not simply because of blind luck. A dom­inating performance by Notre Dame on both sides of the ball decided the out­come. 
"They overwhelmed us, there's no question," Robinson said. "Ironically they only gained one more yard on of­fense than us. That's not indicative of how it was." 
Four Trojan turnovers can probably tell the story a little better. Two fumbles inside the Irish ten-yard line and two in­terceptions gave the Irish offense the impetus it needed. But it was turnovers the other way that had the first chapter going USC's way. 
A fumbled punt by Scott Sollmann midway through the second quarter was recovered Jesse Davis at the Irish 17. Two plays later, Keyshawn Johnson caught a Kyle Wachholtz pass, slipped through an Allen Rossum tackle, and waltzed into the end zone to give the Trojans a 7-6 lead. Little did they know that it would be their only touchdown of the day. 
"I felt like it was Ohio State all over again," Holtz said. "Here we are playing our hearts out and we're down in the second quarter." 
It didn't stay that way, however. Notre Dame's next drive, a 13-play, 60-yard one, ended with a Marc Edwards scor­ing run from two yards out. The ensuing two-point play, a nifty Edwards-to­Powlus option pass, gave the Irish a 14­7lead. 
Then the Irish defense took control. 
"There's no question, our defense won this ball game," said Edwards, who fin­ished with three touchdowns, a two­point conversion run and the two-point pass. "They set us up on offense all game." 
Notre Dame stopped a USC drive on downs with 1:54 to play. The Irish capi­talized with passes from Powlus to Pete Chryplewicz and Derrick Mayes, setting up Autry Denson's four-yard plunge. 
"I thought the turning point of the game was when we stopped them on downs, drove down and scored, and then stopped them again right before the half," Holtz said. "That was a big change." 
USC had the ball inside the Notre Dame five with :14 to play, but failed to connect on three straight passes. The half ended without a Trojan score. 
"I was prepared to tell the team that happiness is having a poor memory," Holtz said. "Whether they scored or not, we still would have been up at half­time." 
Powlus had his first pass of the second half intercepted by USC's Quincy Harrison, who brought the ball back to the Irish 30. But the Trojans were held to an R.J. Sansom field goal. 
"Our defense really saved the day." Holtz commented. "I have always felt that we were a pretty good defensive football team if we didn't give up the big play." 
Those came from the side of the Irish. They rattled off 17 fourth quarter points to clinch the lopsided win. 
Scores off a safety by rush linebacker Kory Minor, a Powlus-to-Chryplewicz pass and an Edwards run left the Trojans crawling back to California with their plumes between their legs. 
"The difference in the game was their ability to run at us," Robinson said. "They played an outstanding game on offense." 
Notre Dame was a superb 15-of-20 on third down conversions. 
7'"1\JIIl'U'"il''c:! continued emergence into a Lyrol)qpJ)J}g)s~ , Burris impression, the ubiq· 'R<i•""'n' ..,.,·th~ airborne Kinnon Tatum. 
TeamsB 

' and KevillKopka's missed co1Ild~~ve.beEm disastrous. Hunter Smith's 
wonders for Lou onem~ewasdiverse; imagina· lrish em · nallevel was 
ili.:···· ./.t.;.:,:.=.•. L... '.·.··,.·'·'·-"'
~~~:W· :,. ·~: 

·.. ofa top five team shows just have come. ..~Tim Sherman 
Monday, October 24, 1995 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA page 3 
Hard hitting linebackers stabilize Irish defense 
bosities eould adequately de­seribe how completely the Irish 'backers turned the game in Notre Dame's favor. 
Omnipresent might be one. Devastating another. Or per­haps, just plain good. 
"The defense played with a lot of love and feeling today," noted Holtz. 
Unfortunately for the Trojan offense, those warm and fuzzy feelings were not direeted across the line of scrimmage. The vaunted USC ground game managed only 101 yards against the Irish defensive wall. 
Certainly the stat sheet point­ed to the stellar linebaeking play. Tatum led the team with eight tackles, and combined the foursome registered 24 tackles, two interceptions, two passes broken up, one sack, and one fumble caused. 
More notieeable, though, were the preponderence of big plays turned in by each mem­ber of the quartet. 
Tatum was the first to eon­tribute, setting the tone early when he tomahawked Trojan ball carrier Delon Washington near the goal-line, stripping the ball with a ferocious hit. 
"That was a great hit, and it definitely gave us the momen­tum back," said Berry. "They had been mouthing off a bit, and we wanted to make a state­ment." 
The message most likely came across loud and clear with Tatum's hit, but the 'back­ers were not content with just leaving a note. Instead they wrote a novel. 
On every subsequent "big play" for the Irish defense, one or more of the linebackers played an integral part. 
By TIM SEYMOUR 
Associate Sports Editor 
The moniker 'Fearsome Foursome' has historieally been applied to defensive lines, but given their dominating per­formance against Southern Cal, the title is equally apt for Notre Dame's linebacking corp. 
Despite the conventional in­sistence that defense is a team effort, the impact that Bert Berry, Lyron Cobbins, Kinnon Tatum, and Kory Minor had in securing the victory can hardly be denied. 
"Our linebackers played out­standing," praised Irish head eoach Lou Holtz after the game. 
The statement was simple, but then few additional ver-


• By the Book 
TEAM STATISTICS 

NO  usc  
First downs  20  23  
Rushes-yards  29-115  56-216  
Passing yards  27B  1B9  
Comp-att-int  22-40-2  1B-29-1  
Return yards  115  92  
Fumbles-lost  4-2  1-1  
Penalties-yards  7-39  4-19  
Punts-ave  4-41.3  4-30.0  
3rd down conv  6-14  15-20  
4th down conv  0-1  0-0  
Possession time  24:49  35:11  
INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS  
RUSHING- 

Notre Dame: Denson 27-95 HD. Edwards 17-B2 3TD, Powlus 7-6, Mayes 1-5, Spencer 1-3, Kinder 1-2, Stokes 1­(minus 2}. 
USC: Washington 19-69, Sermons 4­2B, Olton 1-9, Wachholtz 5-(minus 5). 
PASSING· Notre Dame: Powlus 1 B-29-1-1 B9 lTD. 
• Scoring Summary 
SCORE BY QUARTERS 

1  2  3  4  F  
Notre Dame 6 t5  0 17  38  
usc  0  7  3  0  10  

SCORING SUMMARY 

FIRST QUARTER Notre Dame 6, USC 0 Edwards 9 run (kick failed) at 5:12 
(14 plays, 80 yards, 5:12 elapsed). Key Play: Powlus hit Chryplewicz for 15 yards on 3rd &4. 
SECOND QUARTER USC 7, Notre Dame 6 Johnson 17 pass from Wachholtz 
(Rendon kick) at 9:03 (2 plays, 17 yards, :41 ). Key Play: Soli mann fumbled a punt that USC recovered on the Irish 17. 
Notre Dame 14, USC 7 

Edwards 2 run (Powlus pass from Edwards) at 3:25 (13 plays, 60 yards, 5:38). Key Play: Denson scrambled for 15 on a screen from Powlus to pick up a first down at the usc 39. 
USC: Wachholtz 14-23-1-16B 1TD, Otton B-17-1-100. 
RECEIVING· 
Notre Dame: Edwards 4-30, Mosley 3-51, Denson 3-36, Chryplewicz 3-24 HD, Mayes 2-22, Wallace 2-21, Stafford 1-5. 
USC: Johnson 6-122 lTD, McWilliams 4-65, Miller 3-2B, Sermons 3­1B. Barnum 3-B. Parker 2-29, Allred 1-B. 
TACKLES-
Notre Dame: Tatum B, Cobbins 6 (2 int}, Berry 6. Rossum 6, Monahan 5, Minor 4 (1 sack}. Wooden 4, Wynn 3, Grasmanis 3, Moore 2, Wagasy 2, Thorne 1, Edwards 1, Guilbeaux 1, Farrell 1, Quist 1, Bennett 1, Maloney 1. 
USC: Haas 13, Fields 10, Phillips B, Kelly 7, Harrison 6 (1 int}, Knight 5, Davis 5, Gage 5, Keneley 5, McCutcheon 3, Cusano 3, Lowery 3, No. 55 2, Russel 2, Miller 1, Haslip 1, Pearsall 1, Hogue 1, Gomez 1 , Bonds 1, Perry 1. 
Notre Dame 21, USC 7 
Denson 4 run (Kopka kick) at :41 (9 plays, 62 yards, 1:13). Key Play: Powlus hit Mosley for 26 yards to the USC 23. 
THIRD QUARTER 
Notre Dame 21, USC 10 
Rendon 25 FG at 12:31 (5 plays, 24 yards, 2:09). Key Play: Harrison picked off a Powlus pass and returned it to the Irish 30. 
FOURTH QUARTER 
Notre Dame 23, USC 1 0 
Wachholtz tackled in end zone by Minor at 12:05. Notre Dame 31, USC 10 Chryplewicz 2 pass from Powlus 
(Edwards run) at 9:07 (7 plays, 35 yards, 2:58). Key Play: Sollmann returned USC's free kick to the Trojan 35. 
Notre Dame 38, USC 1 0 
Edwards 1 run (Kopka kick) at 4:53 (4 plays, 12 yards, 1:54). Key Play: Quist recovered a fumbled snap at the USC 12. 
• 
Freshman Kory Minor d 
Thwarting USC right before halftime, Cobbins tipped a pass near the goal-line, breaking up the play so that Tatum could make the tackle as time ex­pired. In the second half, Cobbins' 37-yard interception return was faeilitated by Minor's downfield block. 
His second interception came when Tatum returned an ear­lier favor and tipped the ball at the line of scrimmage. 
The combinations were vari­ous, but the results were al­ways the same -the decimation of Troy. 
"Going in, we knew we had to make a lot of plays," said Berry. "We're starting to get more comfortable with each other out 
there." 
The Observer/Rob Finch 
"Big players rise up in big games, and that's what they (Cobbins, Tatum, and Berry) did," added Minor, who notched his first career safety in the fourth quarter. 
A big game it was, and though much maligned in the past, it was the 'Wrecking Crew' defense -Bob Davie's vision that has reached fruition -which turned the tide. 
"We're a pretty good defen­sive football team when we don't give up the big play," admitted Holtz. 
If the new 'Fearsome Foursome' keeps turning big plays the other way, even such understatement will no longer conceal one of the best line­backing units in the country. 


Shennan 
continued from page 1 
Saturday afternoon past-time. These people 
maybe know enough to attempt to objectify an 
extremely subjective process but they are rare. 
College football coaches are not among this selective cadre of Americans. In fact, their job intrinsically excludes them from having a clue. 
In order to formulate an opinion as to which squads throughout the land are indeed worthy of being named one of the top 25 in the land, it helps to see a few games and a lot of highlights. 
Except for that random Thursday night game on ESPN, those opportunties all occur on Saturday. That's a problem. 
If a college coach is doing anything that resem­bles his job description, his time is otherwise occupied on Saturday. 
Maybe that explains why both Southern California and Texas are ranked ahead of Notre Dame in the most recent poll. 
While the Irish check in at the 15th spot, the Trojans snuck into the top ten and the Longhorns jumped three spots to 13. 
Quick reality check here. Didn't the Irish just ... recently absolutely thrash the men of Troy. The same goes with the 'Horns. 
Even though Notre Dame's record does show more losses, doesn't the old quality of schedule concept hold any water in coaches' mind. 
Both Irish defeats came at the hands of top ten opponents (yes, the Mildcats moniker can be put to rest), while they have defeated two others who are supposedly among the best 15 around. 
But in the world of polls, things like that aren't relevant. 
Rather, personal opinions are considered to be more important than a team's offensive line, grudges given more priority than linebackers and one's own self-interests lie ahead of con­tributing to a just system. 
Such is human nature, so just one solution exists. Rend the poll nonexistent, or in laymen's terms, get rid of the sucker. 
A little controversy is good but we already have the Associated Press for that. Admittedly, sportswriters aren't the best and brightest but they're as close to an educated electorate possi­ble until a playoff system is implemented. 
Unfortunately, that may be awhile but elimi-· nating the idiotic creature that is the coaches' poll is a step forward for the already corrupt ·world of college football. 
1. Florida St. (34) 2. Nebraska (23) 3. Florida (1) 
4. 
Ohio St. (4) 

5. 
Tennessee 

6. 
Kansas 

7. 
Colorado 

8. 
Northwestern 

9. 
Michigan 

10. 
Oregon 

11. 
Auburn 

12. 
Notre Dame 

13. 
Southern Cal 

14. 
Kansas St. 15.-Texas 


16. 
Penn St. 

17. 
Washington 

18. 
Alabama 

19. 
Texas A&M 

20. 
Virginia 

21. 
Syracuse 

22. 
Texas Tech 

23. 
Oklahoma 

24. 
UCLA 

25. 
Iowa 


7-0-0 1,510 7-0-0 1,499 6-0-0 1,420 7-0-0 1,398 6-1-0 1,273 7-0-0 1,244 6-1-0 1 '143 6-1-0 1,087 6-1-0 1,035 6-1-0 941 5-2-0 889 6-2-0 846 6-1-0 828 6-1-0 700 5-1-1 695 5-2-0 636 5-2-0 512 5-2-0 446 4-2-0 390 6-3-0 288 6-1-0 255 4-2-0 237 4-2-1 231 5-2-0 219 5-1-0 212 
1 
2 3 4 6 
7 
9 
11 10 12 13 17 
5 8 
16 19 20 21 22 14 
25 15 
18 

page4 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA Monday, October 24, 1995 
• 



Notre Dame 38 usc 10 
Notre Dame Stadium October 21, 1995 


By MIKE NORBUT 
Sports Editor 
It wasn't done with quite as much ease as Fran Tarkenton, but Marc Edwards scramble on Notre Dame's first two-point conversion attempt was certainly a sight to see. 
"There were three options." Irish coach Lou Holtz said. "Run, throw to Derrick Mayes or stop and throw back to Ron Powlus. 
"Ron tried to run a good route, but the guy stayed with him," he contin­ued. "Marc did a heck of a job of dumping it ofT to him." 
Edwards was a true triple threat to USC on Saturday, rushing for three touchdowns and a two-point conver­sion in addition to throwing the other two-point pass and making four catches for 30 yards. 
He finished with 17 carries for 82 yards on the ground. 
"Our offense executed very well, except for the turnovers," Edwards said. "That was the way it's supposed to execute." 
Edwards completed a two-point pass against Navy a year ago. Conspicuous Characters: 
They stood out like a sore thumb in the press box Saturday, but for good reasons. 
Officials from the Fiesta, Orange and Sugar Bowls were decked out in their bright uniform jackets and in attendance Saturday to watch a pos­sible New Year's Day team, if not two. 
USC's non-conference loss does not take them out of the Rose Bowl pic­ture. 
But if Notre Dame had been on the losing end, their hopes of a major bowl would have gone by the way­side. 
But with three games to play against mediocre teams, Notre Dame can control its own destiny. 
"I said after we got beat by Northwestern that we could be 10-1 or we could be 1-10," Holtz said. "But I felt that we were a pretty gooa football team. I talked to this team about the positive things." 
The most positive of those nowa­days is Notre Dame's legitimate shot to play in the Orange or Sugar Bowls. 
"I've never been to the Orange Bowl," Irish offensive guard Ryan Leahy said. "I had a lot of fun at the Sugar Bowl a few years ago. But we'd be happy with anyone who takes us." 
Celebs Central: 

Along with the regulars such as Dick Vitale, the Notre Dame campus was a people-watchers' paradise this past weekend. 
Among those taking in the action on Saturday were captain Scott O'Grady, the pilot made famous for his survival in Bosnia, Jim Leyland, manager of the Pittsburgh Pirates, and two Heisman trophy winners, Paul Hornung and Mike Garret, USC's athletic director. 
Planning on Pasadena: 

Trojan wide receiver Keyshawn Johnson is quite the talker, even after his squad just was at the wrong end of a major spanking. 
"I came back this year to beat Notre Dame and get to the Rose Bowl," Johnson said. "We'll still be able to accomplish one of our goals." 
Talk about counting the chickens before they hatch. A 17th ranked Washington Husky squad is up next for USC. They are coming ofT a criti­cal comeback win over Stanford last week. 

ACC6,NT
Tuesday, October 24, 1995 page II 
Giving their all in 
By KRISTIN GROTHOFF 
Accent Writer 
I
t was 7:45 a.m. on the first Sunday of Fall Break. Over 150 people heading to 12 different sites in the Appalachia region stood in a daze out­side of the Center for Social Concerns with sleeping bags and pillows in one hand and overstuiTed duffel bags in the other. The scene was quietly chaotic as the weary volunteers loaded a fleet of esc vans in preparation for a week of serviee and adventure. At one cor­ner of the esc building members of one group gathered-most probably wondering how they were going to spend an entire week with a group of people they knew from only three hours worth of orientation seminars. Skepticism grew as one of the mem­bers of the Appalachia Task Force introduced the group to the vans which would carry 18 people and their lug­gage to Gary. West Virginia, some 12 hours away from South Bend. A com­fortable flight home and a predictable and relaxing week with the family probably seemed incredibly attractive. Would the volunteers be able to handle a week long interruption in lifestyle? Would they return from Appalachia with a heightnned awareness of anoth­er American eulture? What had con­vinced them to sign up for the Appalachia Smninar in the first place? 
From the Smninar description print­ed on the application, it is clear that the goals of the project are broad and ambitious. The Appalachia Seminar, whieh is offered in both the fall and the spring, is designed as a one-credit the­ology eourse involving two orientation sessions, two follow up sessions, and a final project in addition to the week long trip during the semester break. The two orientation sessions before the break focus on short readings which dnscribe the state of the Appalachian region socially and economically. 
These preliminary sessions prepare students for an nncounter with a region that has been described as America's own Third World country ­
staff photo 
Two Notre Dame students do construction work during their Appalachia project. 
Observer staff photo 
Appalachia volunteers pose in front of the West Virginia home that they renovated. 
an area which has been plagued by unemployment and poverty following the decline of the coal mining industry. Further, the readings paint a picture of a people challenged to maintain their spirit and ambition through decades of deterioration. 
Armed with a basic understanding of the environment, participants in the seminar then spend a week during the semester break performing acts of ser­vice at one of the program's twelve sites. The sites, located in Kentucky, Ohio, Tennessee and West Virginia, allow students to work through com­munity or religious-based organiza­lions to make improvements in the health, education or environment of the local population. 
Participants have the unique op­portunity to become painters, carpen­ters, tutors or ditch-diggers, depending on the needs of each community. At the same time, interaction with resi­dents of the region provide insight that no magazine article or classroom pre­sentation can convey. The follow-up classes give groups the opportunity to discuss their experiences and to pre­pare for the final projects, which take the form of individual reflection papers or group projects. 
Not only does the Appalachia Seminar offer an opportunity for intel­lectual and spiritual growth, the price is right, as well. For just $90, the CSC covers transportation expenses (volun­teers become quite attached to their vans throughout the week) and arranges for lodging with the mission project. Depending on the site, meals are often the responsibility of the group. However, a frugal group of shoppers and a little culinary creativity can minimize grocery bills. 
The group that headed to Gary, West Virginia worked with the McDowell Mission Project. The Mission, which is run in affiliation with the United Methodist Church, was established in 1990 to serve Southern West Virginia. This group was introduced to the goals of McDowell, which involved a housing rehabilitation and revitalization pro­gram, a comprehensive education pro­gram, and a health advocacy program. The group was divided into teams, each with a specific tasks-construct­ing a garage, painting a clubhouse, installing flooring in the youth center, or organizing a thrift store for the community. Jim Nance, the Mission Director, made it clear before the group set out on their projects that the primary purpose was to interact with the Gary community. He encouraged the group to put down their hammers and paint brushes if they saw the opportunity to swap stories with one of the locals. 
Some spent their days high on a lad­der, scraping and painting the Mission's 39-room clubhouse. Much more was gained than proper painting technique, however; the kindness of the people being served continually amazed the volunteers. They encoun­tered people such as Olga, who stopped by at lunchtime one day with a pot of chili because they looked hun­gry, and Laverne, who was so impressed with the team's efforts that she left the group a beautiful letter and a very special collection of gifts. And, while many had felt awkward on Sunday morning about spending their break with virtual strangers, they real­ized midway through the drive to West Virginia that they were traveling with a fun-loving, open-minded group of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students all sharing the same feelings. 
Although the aim of the Seminar was to spiritually and intellectually enhance the volunteers as they helped the community of Gary, everyone was pleasantly surprised that a week of service could be so much fun. A day of house painting can seem like light work with 4 or 5 people there to keep the laughter going, and an evening spent on a mountain top watching the sunset and talking under the stars can be worth a month lounging in front of the television. 
• MEDICAL MINUTE 
Random. Brain Facts 
By LIZA NYKIEL ~nt M<:dical Curresp<.mdent 
L
ast week, as it wa.c; fall break, I spent a great maJority of my time in front of the TV. When I'm at school, I don't have all that much time to flip through the 57 random channels cable has to offer me, but on fall break, I'm the channel-flipping mas­ter. Anyway, there I am with 57 glorious options for my viewing enjoyment and what do I stop on ... the Nova special on the com­plexities of the brain (ah, the plague of this premed student). Although I couldn't possi­bly mention everything that was presented in the show, I thought I would devote this column to the quite interesting. yet utterly random facts I learned about. ..THE BRAIN. 
First of all. let's.talk. about memory, a fas~ cinating yet not-easlly· understood function of the brain. Our memory is capable of retaining about 100 billion bits of informa­tion, or 500 times the information contained in a complete set of encyclopedias. This memory is due to the 100 billion neurons and 100 trillion connections of those neu­rons-46 ounces of memory in all, if you're average, that is (I'm sure the typical Notre Dame/Saint Mary's student can boast just a few more ounces). Studies on memory have shown that shorHerm memory is 15 per­cent more efficient in the morning, with long-term memory more accurate in the evening. 
One interesting situation arises, though very rarely, when people have eidetic or photographic memories. These people have the ability to recall volumes of information after viewing written material only once before. The world record for an eidetic memory is held by Bhandanta Vlcitasn.ra of Rangoon. Burma, who on May of 197 4 recit­ed from memory 16.000 pages of Buddhist canocial texts (I warned you this would be random). 
Another interesting little tidbit I learned was that, although this conclusion is based solely on statistical observations, left-hand­edness has been thought to be caused by minor brain damage before or during birth. Twins. who are often crowded inside the womb, are twice as likely to be left-handed than singletons. The largest population of lefties is found among autistics; 65 percent favor their left hand over their right. Although one out of every ten people on · earth are southpaws, the incidence of lefties in NASA's Apollo Space Program was found to be one in four. On a random side-note, southpaws also share the limelight with such notables as Leonardo da Vinci, Michelangelo and Benjamin Franklin. 
As for drugs, the brain is its own pharma· cy. Producing more than fifty psychoactive drugs, the brain can affect its own memory, intelligence, sedation and aggression. Endorphin, for example, is the brain's ver­sion of the pain-killer morphine, but it's sur­prisingly three times as powerful. This nat­ural painkiller is often released during strenuous physical exercise and laughter, which may explain why you feel so darn good after watching "Friends." 
Dopamine. another drug produeed by the brain, ha.<; been found to make people talka­tive and excitable. Researchers at Stanford University discovered that many shy people have a lower concentration of this brain hormone than do gregarious folk. Hunger is even controlled by the brain's production of cholesystokinen. Laboratory mice witlt a deficiency of this hormone have insatiable appetites and literally eat everything in sight, including their cages. In humans, the hormone may someday be used to correct eating disorders or aid In dieting. 
Liza Nykiel is a senior Biology major. She plans to attend medical school in the fall. Liza has volunteered in various emergency rooms and worked in a health clinic this past summer. 
,­
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, October 24, 1995 
Off the field, Cleveland has cause to celebrate 
By RICH HARRIS the financial default, and the holy trinity And now the Indians, once baseball's people from outside of here used to Associated Press of last-minute sporting debacles: The laughingstock, are playing in the World laugh at us," said Paul Uoon, who stood Drive, The Fumble and The Shot. Series for the first time in 41 years. among thousands of people at a pep
CLEVELAND But if there were some .------------, The Indians trail the rally Friday on Public Square. 
Is that a hint of smugness on Chief trace of satisfaction on the Atlanta Braves 2-0 in the "I think people love Cleveland now Wahoo's smiling face? face of the chief, it might best-of-7 series. But they'll and are very proud of their city," Lioon Well. no. be excused. Convention play the next three games said. "I don't think it's just the Indians 
It's the same cheesy smile the 
business is through roof. in Jacobs Field -the -the Indians just add another button to Cleveland Indians' logo bore through all Travel and tourism writ-spiffy new ballpark where pop."those seasons of embarrassingly bad 
ers hail Cleveland as the the Indians were 54-18 in "This is the year Cleveland pulls itself baseball. It's the same game face Cleve­
"Comeback City." the regular season. up the ladder," said Tony Longcoy, who 
land residents wore through some 20 
Last month, the grand Cleveland is daring to watched the Indians clinch the Ameri­years of punchlines. 
opening of the Rock and believe. can League pennant. "Hey-the World It's the same frozen grin that greeted Roll Hall of Fame and Museum drew "No city's perfect, but I think that Series, the rock hall: This is Cleveland's the infamous Cuyahoga River fires and rave reviews. we've come a long way from days when year, there can be no doubt about that." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise! Early Specials! 7 Days $2791 Includes 15 Meals & 6 Parties! Great Beaches/Nightlife! Prices Increase 11/21 & 12/15! Spring Break Travel 1-800-678­6386 

Spring Break! Panama City! Early Specials! 8 Days Oceanview Room With Kitchen $1291 Walk To Best Bars! Key West $2591 Cocoa Beach Hilton $1691 Prices Increase 11/21 & 12/151 1-800-678-6386 
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break Specials I 111% Lowest Price Guarantee! 7 Nights Air From South Bend & Hotel From $4191 Book Early! Save $100 On Food/Drinks! Spring Break Travel 1-800-678­6386 
ILOST&FOUNDI 
BIG REWARD for info. leading to the return of bike "laken• Oct. 2 behind Cav. hall: sky blue. schwinn 10 spd., 70's model, big sentimen­tal value -call 4-3504 
WANTED 

Wanted I Individuals, Student Organizations to Promote SPRING BREAK Earn MONEY and FREE TRIPS CALL INTER-CAMPUS PRO­GRAMS http://www.icpt.com 1-800-327-6013 
HELP WANTED addressing envelopes. Work at your residence in your spare time. $250+/week possible! (310)804-5587 24 hrs. 
NEWSPAPER CARRIER: Earn $44/wk and work less than 1 hr/day delivering New York Times, Chicago Tribune and Wall Street Journal to South Quad. Call Joe @4-1680. 
Mary Poppins where are you? We need a babysitter for Fri. only from 10-6pm for 2 adorable kids. In so. end of S. Bend. Call Christy or Kevin. 291-7482 References need­ed. 
FOR RENT 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR NO 232-2595 

THAT PRETTY PLACE. Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football wknds. 5 rooms with pri­vate baths. Located in Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. 1-800-418­
9487 
ROOM IN QUIET, CLEAN HOME. SAFE AREA. KITCHEN PRIV. FEMALE ONLY. $200/MO. 
282-2576. 
ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE 
HOME FOR 
ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. CALL 272-6194 AM OR 232-9620 PM 
& ASK FOR SANDY. 
FOR SALE 
88 Toyota Tercel. exl con,68k, AIC, $3500. 277-3503. 
ND Ski Team T-Shirts! 
****************** Really cool and only $101 Call Potter@ 232-2955 today!! I Great for you, your roomie. or Christmas presents! 
ALPINE CAR CD PLAYER NEW $550 SELL $250 CALL BRENT 273-6183 
PHISH FOR SALE PHISH FOR SALE Two Phish GAs for the Kalamazoo show on Oct. 27, 1995 are for sale. Best offer by this Thursday (26) at noon gets them. Tom x1157 
LAZ-BOY DOUBLE RECLINING LOVESEAT & matching RECLIN­ER, contemporary style and color, excellent condition, 6 yrs. old, paid $1500 sell for $350 O.B.O. Call 273-0334. Will deliver to doorstep. 
MACINTOSH COMPUTER for sale. Complete system including printer only $499. Call Chris at1-800-665­4392 ext. 9537 
TICKETS 
Please, I need 4 BC GA's call David@ 272-7327 
Help! My family is coming en masse for the Navy game. I need 4 GA's and 2 Stud Tickets. Call Tara@ 4233 
A DEVOTED IRISH FAN NEEDS GA'S TO ANY/ALL HOME/AWAY GAMES. 219-232-0061, 24 HRS. 
TICKET-MART. INC. 
WANTED 
GA'S FOR ANY/ALL 
HOME/AWAY ND GAMES. 
BUY*SELL*TRADE 
(219) 232-0058 -24 HRS. 
PHISH tickets for sale. Call Tom at x1157 
I have BC tickets. Cheap. Five bucks, maybe less. They must go. Call Dave at x0669. Please don't bother my roommates. 
I need 2 GA's for BC Call Carrie at (312) 404-5590 
Desperate alum need two stud tix forBC Call TOM at (312) 528-1482 
I NEED TIXS TO ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306 
Hey. I need 2 Stanford tickets, 2 Navy GAs and one USC GA. Call me atX2027. 
Wanted: 4 tickets together -any home game 
Wanted: 2 tickets NO-USC Call 1-800-922-BEAR day 
1-502-354-8826 collect in evening 
NEED B.C. Ticket -G.A. or S.A. 
Please call Anne 634-3445. 
I NEED BC & USC GA'S CALL 288-2877 
NEED USC AND BC TIX 
STUDANDGA CALL MEG X4544 
I'M DESPERATE for your BC GA's 
Please call ALISA 271-8346 
NEED NAVY TIX! AMY 616-473-2636 I need tickets to BC and Navy. Please call Bryan at 272-4249 

I need a ticket to PHISH, Kalamazoo, 10-27, call2074 
need student B.C. ticket. X2074 
I NEED BC TICKETS-STUDENT OR GAllII PLEASE call Megan at x4268 
Need BC & Navy tix. Stud/GA's. 282-1638. 
Need two Navy Tickets Call Lara at x4416 
NEED 4 NAVY GA's. Call Paul collect at (216) 974-7142. 
Need 2 Navy GA's it is crucial I get theml call ASAP @634-2604 
Need 3 B.C. and 3 Navy GA's Jon-287-0578 
I NEED 3 TICKETS FOR BC. FAM­ILY COMING ALL OF THE WAY FROM NJ. CALL DAWN x4990 
Need 1 Stud.Tix 4 BC It's for my little sis! Brian X3410 
HELP! HELPI HELP! 
I NEED TWO STUDENT TICKETS FOR THE B.C. GAME. PLEASE CALL ME AND SELL ME YOUR TICKET. JANICE X2721 
NEED 2 BC GA's Kevin @ 273-8709 
NEED TWO G.A.'S FOR B.C. call Scott x0652 
Need 1 BC Sudent Ticket PauiX4335 
INTERESTED IN SELLING YOUR BC TIX? I have a friend who would really like to buy it from you. Call Myron--X1195 
We need 2 BC GAsII Please call collect. 616-496-4595. Thanks! 
We need 2 BC GAs. Please call collect 616-496-4595. Thanks! 
Badly Needed: 2BCGA's Please Call Matt at 4-1213 
Will trade 2 Navy GA's for 2 BC GA's Sean x1109 
BC GA's For Sale: Call Phil 273-6048 
I NEED B.C. GA'S 273-5281 
SALE BCSTUDTIX 2718154 
FOR SALE 4GA-50 YARD LINE TIX 
FOR BCGAME CALL 271-8154 OR (312) 929-7020 
NEEDED: 2 NAVY GA'S; 1 BC STUD; CALL MICHAEL AT 273­4389 
I need a couple of Navy GA's. We're not wealthy people, but I'm sure my mom will be willing to plunk down a few bucks to see an ND game once before I graduate I Please help her, please. please! Call Megan @ 4807 
Need 1 BC ticket Call Scott, x4479 IN DIRE NEED: of 2 BC std tix (or GAs) Bob/Billy 273-4212 
I NEED BC GA'S BADLY CALL MIKE AT 273-1718 
Need 1 BC Stud. ticket. Call Brian at x-3549 if you can help me. 
Need BC Tix-Jeff 1828 
I NEED GA'S MEGAN X3890 
BC BC BC BC BC BC BC BC BC I need BC GAs...call x3975 BC BC BC BC BC BC BC BC BC 
Need 1 USC Ticket Student or GA. Call Anne x4896. 
HELP! HELP! HELPI HELP! I NEED USC AND BC TIX as many as possible, students or GAs please call NORM @ 232-2955 Thanks for your Support!
.............................. 
B.C. TICKETS WANTED. GA or student. CALL after 5 p.m. 277-4793. GO IRISH . 
ND ALUM NEEDS 2 OR 4 TICK­ETS TO BC GAME OCT. 28. CALL COLLECT (810)269-9022 OR JEN­NYMIKE@AOL.COM 
Please!IIPieaselll Need B.C. Tickets Contact Kevin @1233 
Selling your BC ticket?? 
Call Kelly@ 277-9695 
TIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIX needed: 1 BC ticket (stu or GA) call dan at 273-6183 if you can help out. thanx. TIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIX 
Desperately seeking 3 NAVY GAs. Will pay BIG BUCKS. Call Ryan x0566. 
FOR SALE N.D. G As call271-9412 
s 
I need B.C. tix!ll Either GA or stu­dent tix will do! Call Tim at 634­1148 GO IRISH! 
Four BC GA's for sale on the fifty yard line. Under 50 bucksI Call Tim at x0670 
I NEED USC, BC & NAVY GA'S.272-6306 
I NEED NAVY GA OR STUD TIX-PLEASEI X4669 
1 NAVY GA NOT STUDENT SECT. BEST OFFER BY THURS AT 5PM. CALL 1841. 
Willing to trade BC GA for BC student GA. Call Matt @ 273-9650 
I need some Navy tickets. I have alot to offer if you know what I mean, so give me a call and we'll cut a deal. Call Frank at x3389. 
Need 2 G.A.s for Navy. Call Alison x2511 
Need one stu. tix or GA for BC. Call Alison x2511 
I need two BC student tix $30 each, Potter@ 232-2955 
Need Navy GAs. Call Kevin @273-2938 
Need BC stud and GA tix Eric 233-4435 
Need 4 B.C. GA's or stud tix Call Brian x3467 
4 SALE: BC STUD TIX X4-3144 
NEED B.C. TICKETSIIII call Chris at 273-4674 
$ NEED 4 BC TIX $ STUDENT OR GA CALL TONY @ 3530 
Wanted: 4 Football Tickets for Boston College Game. Call Collect 913-233-5826 
PERSONAL 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center 
We're open for your convenience Ill Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnighl Fri.: 7:30am-7:00pm Sat.: Noon-6:00pm Sun.: Noon -Midnight 
(closed home football Saturdays) 
0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0 
QUALITY COPIES, QUICKLYl!1 THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0 
FINALLY!II Happy 21st. Bob Purcell. Have a Freaky day I 
Jack, 
Had a GREAT time at Cactus Jack's Thursday. You up for $3 pitchers Mon-Wed? Or shall we be daring a try a pint of Guiness for $2.25? Look Good. Love, Josie 
I am NOT Italian! -Potter (the real one) 
I think I hit the kitty. Oh darn. -Faraday 
********************* ND/SMC BALLROOM DANCE 
This Week: RHUMBA and ADV. FOXTROT 
6:30 PM tonight at 301 Rockne 
* professional instruction 
* only $3 per lesson Everyone is welcomeI Come dance with usI
.....................
--------.----------­
Notes from the Tour de Forced' Great White North, 1 0/14-18/95 
15. So far Pennsylvania has been one big speedbump. 
14. Two demerit points for not wearing seatbelts. 
13. Hi moml I imploded! 
12. Where is superman now? 
11. Dead Fish Whirlpool 
10. STOP SINGING LES MISIII 
9. Mmmarvelous Mmmuffins 
8. If you think education is expen­sive, try ignorance. 
7. Mean people suck 
6. Spiderman: tough, daring, sticky 
5. Where's the blasted Kit-Kat? I 
4. Are we going to Scarborough Fair? 
3. Let's do something that doesn't suck. 
2. Quit stealing my words 
1. Gonkl 
Kira, Lisa, and all the Grace guys­Thanks for welcoming me back on this fabulous weekend. I miss you all, but know I will see you again soon. Good luck with the rest of the year! Love yal Cyndi 
Harry is tuff. 
Calif. actress-writer wife & photog­rapher husband wish to adopt new­born. Will provide love. nurturing environ.• educ., financial security. Hollywood Hills home has large back yard and loving dog. Call 81 81241-5535 collect. Legal & Confidential. 
TRAVEL FREE FOR SPRING BREAK '96 Form a group of 15 and travel FREE + earn $$$ CANCUN, SOUTH PADRE, BAHAMAS, FLORIDA. CARNIVAL CRUISES. Food and Drinks includ­ed. (800)574-7577 ext. 302 
HEY ST. MARY's Please HELPI The NDCIBD is collecting USED EYEGLASSES to send to Honduras. Oct. 29 12-3pm St. Mary's Dining Hall 
I need a nde home to Saint Louis for Thanksgiving Break. Want to leave Monday night, Nov. 20th. Call Caroline 284-4349. 
TROOP NOTRE DAME: Troop ND will be holding try-outs on Oct. 29 in Washington Hall at 1 p.m. You can learn the try-out routine Oct 24 and 26 from 8-1 0 p.m. in Room 219. Tryout fee is $10. (T-shirt included) Questions? Call Charity 284-4349 
Don't forget to wish Bob Purcell a Happy 21st Birthday! 4-4040. 
COME TO FAZOLLI'S Thurs. 4-9 or Fri. 11-1 :30, and 4-9 to support Holy Cross Hall at SMC. Residents will be handing out breadsticks. Order a spaghetti dinner, and money will go to Holy Cross HallI 
KYgal­lt's been a long time. so you really deserve this. You never have been one to keep your clothes on so I wasn't surprised by the postcard I You know I'm always with you in spirit when you're drinking. By the way, I visited the dentist last week. 
Kiddo, 

In that meandering mood, huh? I have the solution for youI You just need to wait a few. And how about those Metsl?l 
-An lllinios Farmer 
N Your still the cutest, although C 
is right on your tail ... -Please not to be breakin' my leg 
There is absolutely nothing deserv­ing enough. 
M­1give you two whole weeks to do something exciting and still I get nothing. I was going to try writing the lyrics to your song, but we know that can't be published. 
-G 
Do Not Enter 

So. where are your Star Wars quotes now, big guy? I'm waiting for some arbitrary authority ... 
Snyder's Pretzels 79 cents What a bargain. That is a bargain for me. I think I will buy some. 
Oh, Canada. Road trip '95 Bring in your money. 

There is a lot of tuffness going on in this newspaper. 
Tuesday, October 24, 1995 
The Observer • SPORTS page 13 

Former Irish star Raghib Ismail caught two long touchdown passes from Raiders' back-up quarterback Vince Evans. 
University of Notre Dame International Study Program In 


MEXICO CITY, MEXICO 
INFORMATION MEETING With Professor Angela Borelli 
TUESDAY OCTOBER 24, 1995 202 DEBARTOLO 4:30 P.M. 
Returning students will be on hand to answer questions 
By DENNIS GEORGATOS 
Associated Press 
OAKLAND At 40, Vince Evans is still a football marvel. 
And after watching him throw for more than 300 yards and two long-distance touch­downs against the same defense that knocked out Steve Young the week before, Raiders coach Mike White couldn't help feeling the NFL's oldest active player has never received his just due. 
Playing for injured Jeff Hostetler, Evans threw for 335 yards, including touchdowns of 46 and 73 yards to Raghib Is­mail in the Raiders' 30-17 win Sunday over the Indianapolis Colts. 
It was the fourth 300-yard game for Evans but first since 1983 when he was with Chicago and passed for a ca­reer-best 336 yards in a loss to Detroit. 
"He's an amazing guy," White said of Evans, called "Pops" by some of his team­mates. 
What's even more amazing to White is that Evans didn't get more NFL playing opportunities when he was younger. 
"Vince hasn't been in the best situations," White said. "I re­ally believe, if given the chance, that he'd be one of the great 
quarterbacks  to  play  this  
game."  
Evans,  who  entered  the  

league 18 years ago when black quarterbacks were still a rarity 
-
Evans shines as replacement 
in the NFL, said White could be 
right. At the same time, Evans 
said he would rather not dwell 
on missed opportunities but 
concentrate on trying to "make 
my latter years greater than my 
former years." 
"I've always just tried to 
make the best of whatever cir­
cumstances I might have been 
in," Evans said. "I feel blessed 
to be doing what I'm doing at 
this age." 
Evans headed into the NFL 
after leading Southern Cal to 
victory over Michigan in the 
1977 Rose Bowl and winning 
game MVP honors. 
Drafted by Chicago in the sixth-round, Evans didn't throw a pass as a rookie, spending his first year returning kicks. 
He didn't see significant play­ing time at quarterback until 1979, and had his best season with the Bears in 1981, when he started all 16 games and threw for 2,354 yards and 11 touchdowns while leading an offense that revolved around running back Walter Payton. 
Evans fell out of favor in Chicago over the course of the next couple of seasons and jumped to the USFL in 1984, spending a year each with the Chicago Blitz and Denver Gold. 
He was out of football for nearly two years before joining the Raiders in 1987 as a re­placement player and stuck with the team after the players' strike ended. 
Despite being released or granted free agency on a nearly 
yearly basis, Evans has main­
tained a nine-year association 
with the Raiders, outlasting 
such other quarterbacks as for­
mer first-round pick Todd 
Marinovich, Steve Betierlein 
and Jay Schroeder. 
During the preseason, Evans 
had to prove himself all over 
again. beating out Billy Joe 
Hobert for the No. 2 job. 
Evans began the season 1Oth on the Raiders' all-time passing list and he's climbing the chart. His three touchdown passes this season all have been over 40 yards, and his penchant for the deep pass is reminiscent of the Raiders' old style. 
"He's incredible, the physical things he still does, his arm strength, his mobility," quar­terback coach Jim Passel said. 
"He's probably the second-or third-best athlete at the quar­terback position in the league," added receiver Tim Brown. "He can still outrun most of the guys on this team." 
The bottom line to the Raiders is whether Evans can help win games. 
There was that time he hit Brown in the final seconds of a 1992 game to rally the Raiders past Washington, a perfor­mance Evans ranks as his fa­vorite. 
"I like that comeback stuff," he said. 
In 1993, his average of 8.42 yards per completion led the NFL. Last year, he played in nine games as Hostetler's back­up. 


Please come to share your concerns. We need to hear from you. We want to provide a safe environment in which honest dialogue can occur. If you have any questions, please contact: 
Ann Firth, Chair, at 631-5550. 
Sister Sue Bruno, O.S.F.  Rev. David B. Burrell, C.S.C.  
Rev. Terence Linton, C.S.C.  Mr. Dennis McCarthy  
Ms. Sharon Miller  Mr. Jonathan Patrick  
Prof. Maura Ryan  Mr. Anthony Silva  
Dr. Susan Steibe .. Pasalich  Dr. Patrick Utz  

Rev. Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, October 24, 1995 
-
• VOLLEYBALL • CRoss CournRY 
Irish on top of Big East 
Men 6th in Iowa, women struggle
despite tough break 
By MICHAEL THOMPSON 
Spons Writer 

Over the course of Fall break, the Notre Dame volley­ball team dropped four match­es. All four losses, however, came at the hands of ranked teams. 
On October 12-14, Notre Dame participated in the Geor­gia Tech Invitational. Georgia Tech was Notre Dame's first opponent. The Yellow Jackets, ranked 22nd in the nation, won the match 12-15, 15-17, 15-11, 15-12, and 20-18. 
On Sunday, the Irish had to face Texas once again. Four weeks ago, Texas handed the Irish their first loss of the sea­son, and once again the Longhorns' arsenal of kills was too much for the Irish defense. The Irish lost to the now 8th ranked Longhorns, 15-11, 11­15, 15-10, 16-14. 
The next two opponents looked to be the second and third most difficult opponents on the Irish schedule this year. Stanford and Long Beach State proved why they are ranked third and fifteenth. Stanford defeated the Irish 11-15, 15-4, 15-7, and 15-5, while Long Beach State had a little more trouble in their victory, winning 15-7,9-15, 15-5, and 15-11. 
Coach Brown sees the advantages and disadvantages that come from the losses. "It's always difficult to lose. But we want to look at the losses posi­tively. We got to see what we will be up against in the NCAA tournament and the heightened level of play." 
Despite the long and difficult road trip for the Irish, once they returned to the JACC, it was back to buisness. Syracuse was the first victim. The Irish showed new signs of life and confidence. Notre Dame took care of the Orangemen in straight sets, 15-3, 15-3, and 15-1, allowing only seven points to be scored by the Big East opponent. 
Sunday afternoon, Notre Dame was back on the mark again. In their four game match, the Irish showed much enthusiasm and made few er­rors. Pittsburg showed up with a fired up and hungry team and made a run in game three, but the Irish finally put down the attack in the fourth. 
"Syracuse and Pittsburg gave us opportunities to work on specifics," said coach Debbie Brown. They got us back into the upswing. Syracuse pre­sented no real threat, but Pittsburg put pressure on us. That gives us a little more experience to bring into the big games." 
With wins over Syracuse and Pittsburg, Notre Dame im­proved their conference record to 5-0. The Irish remain unde­feated and atop all of their Big East competition. 

ByB.J.HOOD 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame cross coun­try teams ran against several of the nation's top ten teams at the Iowa State Cross Country Memorial Classic on Saturday October 14. The 13th-ranked men's squad earned a sixth place finish of 20 teams, while the women's team finished 17th of 22 teams. 
For the second race in a row, senior Derek Seiling led the Irish men. Seiling posted a time of 26:58 en route to an 18th place finish. Fellow se­niors Derek Martisus and Joe 
$2300 

FLAT MONTHLY FEE! 
for long distance calls to: 
ELKHART•WAKARUSA BRISTOL•DUNLAP MIDDLEBURY•GOSHEN 
If you're spending more than $23.00 per month for calls to these areas, YOU'RE PAYING TOO MUCH! We can start your service today ... 
START SAVING NOW! NO SPECIAL LINE OR INSTALLATION 
CALL USAT 1-800-360-4990 Mon.-Fri. 'til 8 p.m. 

Dunlop finished 23rd and 30th, respectively. Martisus finished in 27:06 and Dunlop in 27:10. 
Junior Matt Althoff finished 35th with a time of 27:21, sophomore Jason Rexing 39th in 27:22, and freshmen Antonio Arce placed 50th in 27:33. 
Third-ranked Stanford won the meet, followed by eighth­ranked Iowa State, 20th-ranked North Carolina State, lOth­ranked Tennessee and fourth­ranked Arizona finished ahead of the Irish. 
Notre Dame finished ahead of the two Big East schools at the meet, Villanova and Boston College. 
Maureen Kelly led the Irish women with a time of 18:12. Kelly earned a 21st-place finish overall. The senior has been the first Irish finisher in every meet. "I've been pretty satis­fied but I'd like to do better," Kelly said. "I've left a lot of room for improvement." 
Senior Amy Siegel was the second Irish runner to finish and placed 57th overall in a time of 18:40. Senior Kristen Dudas was across the finish line in 19:03, and freshmen Mary Volland finished in 19:07. 
"(To improve) we have to run together a lot better," Kelly said. 
EARN CASH by DONATING 
You could earn: 

$30°0after your first plasma donation! 
$15°0  if you donate alone (first visit)  
t$ 5°0  if you show college I. D. (first visit)  
t$1 000  per person if you recruit someone and they donate  

$30°0 TOTAL! Help Us Save Lives 
Must be 18 years old; proof of current address with photo I. D. COME TO: HOURS: AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL M-F: 9-6 515 LINCOLNWAY WEST SAT: 8-5 SOUTH BEND, IN 46601-1117 234-6010 


MEN'S BASKETBALL 
1111 


STUDENT SEASON TICKETS! J!!tQIJ 
As aresult of the tremendous demand, the Notre Dame Ticket Office has opened alimited number of seats for any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student still wanting to buy men's basketball season tickets. Tickets can be purchased between 8:30 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. at the Joyce Center's second floor ticket office, today, Tuesday, Oct. 24, until Friday, Oct. 27. 
UCONN Preseason No. 5 '95 NCAA Elite 8 Partici GEORGETOWN ST. JOHN'S Preseason No. 3 Preseason No. 15 pant '95 NCAA Sweet 16 Participant '95 NIT Participant  MIAMI '95 NIT Participant  
PITTSBURGH  RUTGERS  PROVIDENCE  SETON HALL  WEST VIRGINIA  

II GAMES lor JUST $44 

----~--------------------------~--------~---------------------------------------------------------------------­

A MAss IN MEMORY OF  
Robert T. Ada1ns A Senior at the University ofNotre Dame  
Will be Offered at the Basilica ofth~ Sacred Heart on Wednesday, October 25, 1995 at 5:00p.m.  
Father Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. Presider Music by the Notre Dame Folk Choir  
0MPUS MINISTRY  A reception for the family and friends will follow the Mass  

Tuesday, October 24, 1995 
Soccer 
continued from page 20 
ehallenge the Duke keeper, who was out of position to field a Guerrero shot. 
The play between the teams began to even up as play pro­gressed. After going up and down the field for several min­utes. the ball was kicked out of bounds by an Irish defender to set up another Duke corner kick. 
Again, Whelchel scored on Andi Meldi's kick by taking advantage of a mismatch against the Notre Dame defense. Whelchel took the ball out of tho air and fired it past an outstretched Renola to the high left eorner of the net. The seore became 2-1 with less than ten minutes remaining. 
The Irish kept the ball in the Duke half of the field as the doek ticked down, but couldn't put anything together to get the ball in the net until VanLaecke seored with less than a minute on the dock. The defender col­lected a loose ball 15 yards from the post and put it past Melissa Carr to tie the game at two. 
"Amy is getting better and better every game," said Petru­eelli. "It's gotten to the point where we can't take her off the field." 
The game lasted two over­times with eaeh team unable to eash in on scoring opportuni­ties. Sweeper Ashley Scharff thwarted a Blue Devil threat in the first overtime by clearing the ball with several Duke play­ers surrounding Renola in the box. 
"Duke leaves this game happy, we leave the game feel­ing that we didn't play to our potential," Petrucelli said. "If you take away the first half, we played well. It says something that we have the ability to come back. But if we try to just sur­vive, like we did in the first half, we're wasting our talent." 
After the performance against Duke, the Irish entered the North Carolina game with noth­ing to lose. The pressure all fell on the Tarheels, who had to de­fend their undefeated season and top ranking against a hun­gry Irish team. 
Aparrently, coach Petrucelli did yell at the team before the game, as the Irish started the game with inspired play. The game was even through the first several minutes as the two defenses prevented either of­fensive gameplan from taking off. 
The Tarheels began to foree the ball into Irish territory halfway through the period as the Heels defense eame aeross the midfield line to put pressure on the Irish back line. tourna­ment MVP Staci Wilson was all over the field. marking Gerardo as well as aggressively pursu­ing head balls. 
The pressure paid off when defender Tiffany Roberts stripped an Irish player of the ball and sent it up the wing to freshman attacker Cindy Par­low. Parlow took the ball into the box and blasted a shot past Renola to open the scoring with ten minutes to go in the half. 
The Tarheels played aggres­sive soccer throughout the game, and kept the Irish in check by stopping the passing game. The Tarheels also tried to keep midfielder Holly Man­thei out of the game, as Man­thei's national squad teammate Tiffany Roberts fouled her re­peatedly, often tripping Man­thei from behind. Gerardo also had a tough time with Wilson, who also felt compelled to foul at will. The two exchanged words midway through the sec­ond half. 
Another big faetor in the con­test was the Tarheel team speed. The squad was able to keep the ball from the Irish by kicking it deep into Irish terri­tory and letting their forwards catch up to the ball. 
Beth Sheppard capped the 
scoring for the Tarheels on a cross from Robin Confer with fifteen minutes remaining. Confer dribbled up the left side and saw Sheppard wide open outside of the box. Sheppard had plenty of time to collect the pass and put the ball in the up­per left side of the net. 
"I think that our team quick­ness and speed was a big factor in the game," said Tarheel head coach Anson Dorrance. "It's also our trademark to try hard. That makes us tough to match up against. But it was an end to end game, and each team had scoring chances. I'm just glad that we collected on a cou­ple of them." 
The Irish were not awed by North Carolina. 
"I don't think that they lived up to my expectations," said captain Cindy Daws. "Right now, we're not playing at our best. We don't have a set line­up yet, and we have some play­ers who are recovering from injuries. But they don't play very complicated soeeer. They just kick and run." 
"It's hard to play without the ball," Petrucelli said. "In the beginning we played on emo­tion, but we didn't maintain our motivation. They won the game because they had poses­sion. I just hope the weekend doesn't affect our confidence." 

~-~~---~----~---­
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, October 24, 1995 


Goals a priority on road trip 
By JOE VILLINSKI 
Assistant Spons Editor 

Before last Sunday's game with Georgetown. the women's soccer team decided to put some perspective on the sea­son. 
After a lackluster 2-0 win at Villanova three days earlier. they began to look at the goals they set at the beginning of the year. 
"Before the game we re-eval­uated both our team and indi­vidual goals," senior sweeper Ashley Scharff said. "We com­pletely started from scratch and re-evaluated why we were out there." 
Following this shift of focus, the Irish went out and put the game of soccer in perspective for Georgetown, trouncing the Hoyas 10-0 and outshooting them by an astounding 53-1 count. With the win, the 12-2-2 Irish assured itself of a berth in the. Big East post-season tour­nament. 
"I think the girls finally went out there and said they were going to have a lot of fun," as­sistant coach Carla Chin added. 
The party started with less than a minute gone by as senior Julie Vogel scored her first goal in over two seasons at the 27­second mark of the match on a cross from junior Amy VanLaecke. 
For VanLaecke, it was one of many plays in which she was instrumental during the lengthy Irish road trip. She also tallied her third goal in four games in the second half on an assist from senior Michelle McCarthy. 
"VanLaecke was awesome for us during the entire trip," Chin commented. "She was defi­nitely the most consistent." 
The Irish took control of the game with four more goals in 
Observer/Mike Junior Amy Vanlaecke registered an assist and a goal in the game against Georgetown. It was her third goal in four games. 
the first half including a pair of Cindy Daws' penalty kicks with­in a three-minute span. Senior Rosella Guerrero also complet­ed her fourth career hat-trick with two goals in the second half. 
The difference against Georgetown was the quick Irish passing that kept the Hoya de­fense off balance all day. 
"We played very well on Sun­day," Chin said. "Our passes were good and we created a lot of dangerous opportunities." 
"We were doing a lot more passing and whenever we move the ball quickly, we play well," Scharff added. 
Against Villanova, another slow start plagued the Irish as head coach Chris Petrucelli took out the offensive starters for the second time this year. 
As against Santa Clara, the re­serves and starting defensive unit kept the game scoreless throughout the remainder of the half. 
"We wanted to get some of the other players in the game and they provided a spark off the bench," Chin noted. "In the second half, the starters went back in and did a much better job." 
After switching from fullback to forward, VanLaecke tallied the game winner on assists from midfielders Holly Manthei and Shannon Boxx. 
However, after the two wins and many lineup changes. the Irish are still looking to find their stride. 
"We're still striving to hit the high point in our game," Chin said. 
Mark Shields 
Political Columnist & Commentator 

Wednesday/ October 25 
7:30p.m. 
Hesburgh Library Audilarum 
Sponsored by SARG, the Alumni Association and the Department of American Studies. 
...,J 

~====:::::.:::::====----.
Chinese-American 1 Restaurant & Cocktail Lounge 1\uthentic Szechuan, 
I!J$.~.~-~.,. l&ndarin & HWlan Cuisir.:: 
Bar & Restaurant open 7 days a week Lunches starting at ..... $4.25 Dinners starting at ..... $5.95 Votcd.Be!\t 
Orkntal Rest<n,ranl-'
Banquet rooms available for up to 200 in Michiana by ·· .~ 
130 Dixie Way N., South Bend 
Mit:lliana Nolt/
(next to RaOOaU's Inn)
rA SYRACUSE­
• STUDY ABROAD 
Take the Syracuse Advantage! 
Internships Extensive Professional & Liberal Arts Courses 
EUROPE • AFRICA • ASIA 
Scholarships & Grants 
Division of International Programs Abroad Syracuse University, 119a Euclid Avenue Syracuse, NV 13244-4170 
1-800-235-3472 • DIPA@suadmin.syr.edu 

Attention all 

Habitat for Humanity 
members or interested students: Our next group meeting is' Thursday, October 26th at 7:30pm. Please attend because positions are available. 
All are welcome! 
+ 
Flip Side 
sponsors 

SO's Dance! Saturday, October 28th Knights of Columbus Hall 10:00 pm-2:00am Questions? Call John X 1419 
!111\ V'l//( ('I'> fJ/(Jtlderl /()} \U/1 /J1 1/w Club Coordination Council. 
I> i/--/11/8 ::or, /.u!-IJI!llli(' 

Tuesday, October 24, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• MEN'S SOCCER 
-
Tournament doubtful, Irish struggle in Big East 

By DYLAN BARMMER Sports Writer 
It wasn't supposed to happen like this. 
The outlook for the Notre Dame men's soccer team enter­ing their inaugural campaign in the Big East was good. Boasting a young, talented team and boosted by the return of star forward Bill Lanza, the Irish were expected to finish in the top five in this competitive conference. 
Right now, they will be lucky to make the top eight. 
The top eight is what the Irish are left to shoot for, as only eight of twelve teams in the Big East will advance to the confer­ence tournament. Following a 1-3 Big East skid over the fall break period, the Irish stand 3­6 in conference play. The team's 6 points leave them des­perate to win their two re­maining conference games. 
"We just have to win our last two games, and then wait and 

more schools than you ~ere. 

It's everywhere you "'\Nant to be:' 
CVisa U.S.A. Inc. 1995 
see what happens," said a somber Bill Lanza, who was able to manage just one assist in his first four games back from a groin injury. "I guess our fate is in other teams' hands now." 
That is if the punchless Irish can manage any wins. 
Their Jagging offense was outscored 12-2 over the four game stretch, with both goals coming off the foot of freshman Ben Bocklage. The Notre Dame squad which had been averag­ing over 3 goals per game com­ing into their October 14 match-up with Providence seemed to disappear over the last four matches, reduced to a highly inefficient punching bag. 
"We couldn't even put three passes together," said Lanza. "We didn't really create too well. The turf was definitely a factor though." 
"The turf' in question here is the ever-unfriendly astroturf, which three of the four Irish opponents insist on playing on. 
In their three game road trip on the artificial surfaces of St. John's, West Virginia, and Pittsburgh, the Irish were outscored 11-1, continually confounded by the harsh turf. 
"You couldn't do wha.t you wanted to out there," said Bocklage. ''I'm just excited to be back on grass now. I've never appreciated it more than now." 
Certainly the adjustment to turf didn't aid the Irish, but it can't be deemed a total scape­goat either. The Irish had been practicing on the artificial sur­face of Loftus the entire week before the game, and head coach Mike Berticelli, while cit­ing the difficulty of playing on turf, had insisted on the need for his players to make the nec­essary adjustments. 
"We definitely had trouble adjusting out there," said Lanza. "It was definitely a fac­tor. We probably would have beat all three of those teams on grass." 
The three game skid, which included a 6-0 humiliation at the hands of #21 St. John's, continued a disturbing trend for the Irish. This team is a lowly 1-5 on the road this year, their only win coming over a dreadful Northwestern team. 
The West Virginia loss was hard to swallow, as two Irish goals were negated due to ofT­side calls, and the Mountaineers escaped with a 2­1 victory. Sunday's 3-0 loss came at the hands of Pittsburgh, on a surface which Lanza said "most resembled Loftus." Familiarity couldn't save the Irish, and the Panthers clawed their way to a fifth straight win. 
The rest of the 7-8 Irish's season consists of just four games. two of which are Big East games. An October 29 game at Connecticut, who have 7 points with three games left, and a November 3 home match with Villanova (6 points, 3 games remaining) will decide the season. If the Irish can win both of those games, they may have an outside shot of making the journey to New Jersey for the Big East tournament. 

·~,s· si~ifN. ••~· «:•is ·Nii\,;s·.:.iiiiiiiiJiis··:
.......................................... 


DAYTONA BEACH I tj j'lt,q!iI STEAMBOAT VAIL/BEAVER CREEK HILTON HEAD ISLAND 
• PER PERSON DEPENDING ON DESTINATION IBREAK OATES ILENGTII Of STAY. 
'~sao~SIU!IICU4S·E 
TOLL J1!llili INI'OIIWATION & l!liStiii\'ATIONS 

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, October 24, 1995 
• HOCKEY 

leers optiiDistic despite 1-3 start 
By MIKE DAY expected to make an impact Spons Writer this season, and he wasted no time establishing himself as one 
One mustn't judge a book by 
of the team's top front liners. its cover. Or a hockey team by 
Urick exploded for two goals in a 1-3 record. 
the first period againstThe Dave Poulin era was offi­
Fairbanks and added a couplecially ushered in over the week­
of late scores to cap an incredi­end, and to say the results were 
ble four goal performance. mixed would be an un­
"It was good to get off to a derstatement. 
pretty good start," said Urick. On paper, losing to Guelph 
"My line mates did a great joband two out of three to Alaska­
of setting me up. I was glad to Fairbanks is not exactly some­
get my first goal, but we've gotthing to write home about. 
a lot of work to do at this pointHowever, the Irish's new, in­
in the year." novative style of play, along 
After Thursday night's im­with the successful debut of a 
pressive performance, it talented group of freshmen 
seemed the Irish were well on gives Notre Dame fans their 
their way to a sweep of Alaska first glimmer of hope in years. 
Fairbanks. However, the After falling to Guelph 2-1 in 
Nanooks would have nothing of the season's opener, the Irish 
the sort, as they captured the made a 180 degree turnaround 
final two games of the week­on Thursday night in the first of 
end, 6-4 and 7-4, to win the se­three games against Alaska 
ries and move into first place in Fairbanks. The 7-4 victory 
the CCHA. gave Notre Dame fans a "They played pretty well, but glimpse of what promises to be 
we gave them too many oppor­an aggressive, up-tempo style 
tunities," said Urick. "We real­of play under Poulin. 
ize that we have to show up
Senior center Jamie Ling 
and play our game in order to picked up right where he left 
beat a team like them." ofT last season, scoring a pair of 
Urick was not the only fresh­unassisted goals early in the 
man to make a name for him­
third period to give the Irish a 
self in the first three game se­three goal lead that they would 
ries of the season. Defenseman not relinquish. While Ling was 
Benoit Cotnoir recorded a goal up to his old tricks, the story of 
and three assists, and left wing 
the game turned out to be new­
Aniket Dhadphale added three comer Brian Urick. 
points (one goal, two assists) in The freshman right wing was 
Recycle The Observer 
great scores... 

Kaplan helps you focus your test prep study where you need it most. We'll show you the proven skills and test­taking techniques that help you get a higher score. 

great skills... 
Kaplan has the most complete arsenal of test prep 
tools available. From videos to software to virtual 
reality practice tests with computerized analysis to 
great teachers who really care, nobody offers you 
more ways to practice. 
Classes forming now! Call 1-800-KAP-TEST 
get a higher score 
KAPLAN 
the class of 1999's coming out party. 
Not to be upstaged, seniors Jamie Moreshead, Jay Ma­tushak, and Garry Gruber added one goal apiece in the 
three  games  against  the  
Nanooks.  
Although  the team's  1-3  

record may not indicate it, the Irish seem to have made signif­icant strides since the end of last season. 
"We are playing with a lot more confidence and unity than we were at this time last sea­son," said junior defenseman Ben Nelsen. "Coach Poulin's style of play emphasizes mao­on-man defense and an up­tempo offense that may have been lacking the last two years." 
For the pessimist, it was the same old Irish. For the opti­mist, it was a sign of greater things to come. 

NOTRE DAME FORUM ON ACADEMIC LIFE 
''Doctoral Programs at Notre Dame'' 
Panel: Professors Edward Conlon (Management) Gary Gutting (Philosophy) 
Graham Lappin (Chemistry and Biochemistry) Thomas Mueller (Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering) 
Wednesday, October 25, 1995 7:30P.M. CCE Auditorium 
Sponsored by the Faculty Senate All are welcome. 
Attention Students, Faculty, Administration & Staff FREE FLU SHOTS Tues., Wed. and Thurs., 9:00AM to 5:00PM Library Concourse and Montgomery Theater ND ID Cards and Short Sleeves Required 


Tuesday, October 24, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT YOUR HOROSCOPE 
...T "t)\"t> qMt>llM£. fp.orn TUESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1995 TI-l£. E1u.\-\TI-I GP.P.oE 1\T \liE. (For your personalized daily Jeane Dixon horoscope, based on your own 
~-------~+=1 

date of birth, call 1-900-988-7788. Your phone company will bill you 99
P\<'>.'<. Of 'SE 11£.1" ... 
cents a minute.)/'Jv.lo 'I\)It> t•"'"" ~It:. II HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN ship needs to be defined. 
DILBERT 
Cft..ROL, ABOUT THIS 
FLIGHT TO NEW YORK THft..l YOU BOOKED 
FOR f-\E. .. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 3&Welcome 38 Northern
1 "How sad I" 
lre13nd's -­

5 Sources of milk 
f'aisley 10 Unhealthy air 
39 California fort 14 When hot cross 
40 Ship's medical 

buns are eaten 
facility 15 Buick model 
41 Car in a 1964 16 One of the song Jackson 5 
42 Stocking stutter 11 Simone 
43 Barton and 

Signore! role 
others 19 Italian wine city 
44 Othello, e.g. 20 Genesis 
45 "Ragged Dick" mountain 

author 21 Western hat 
47 Plunked oneself 23 Vagabond down 26 Big birds 48 "Death Be Not 27 Lady at a ball Proud" poet 30 Attention 49 Not written 32 Bartletts 51 Dakota Indian 35"Dies-" 53 Aida's love 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

name 13 Enter t8 StabI e mate 22 Gas gauge level 
Any Student who is interested in: 
• 
Planning an All-Night Sports Extravaganza 

• 
Raising Money for the St. Joseph County Special Olympics 


• Working with Other Enthusiastic Students Qualifications: 
• 
Must be a Notre Dame or Saint Mary's Student who Enjoys Community Service 

• 
Ability to Meet Regularly Between November & February (Approximately 4 Times) Interested??? Call 631-8237! 



'Sc-1\ool.. P.x NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Take a long look at a situation that
l'lu·~ E.--. 

may be hampering your creativity. Self-discipline is the key to making significant headway where your career and finances are concerned. Romance turns serious early in 1996. Settle down if convinced you have found your soulmate. Joint business ventures look especially promising next summer. Insist on getting the details of a special arrangement in writing. Otherwise,
BILL WATTERSON you may have difficulty getting everything owed you. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: poet Denise Levertov, Rolling Stone Bill Wyman, Con­gressman Kweisi Mfume (D., Mary­land), actor F. Murray Abraham. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Those connected with the arts, entertainment world or Wall Street can further their careers now. Travel is involved. Your physical and men­tal energies are exceptionally high. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): The impact of a new friend or sup­port group on your life could be dra­matic. You may find yourself con­templating big changes. Although stretching budget will not be easy, it is necessary. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): SCOTT ADAMS The contacts you make now will be a feather in your cap later on. Do 
r-------------------~ur-------------------~ 

g IS IT REALL'I' NEC£55AIW 
~ TO f"\AKE ALL THESE 
~ STOPOVERS IN THIRD­
~ WORLD COUNTRI£.5 
~ TI--\1>-.T A.RE E~PERIENCING 
56 Portuguese West Africa, today 
60 Relative of the heron 61 Robin Hood's love 64 Word after take or high 65 "Golden" song &6 Bulldogs 67 Panic 68 Hornets' homes 69 Muse's instrument 
DOWN 

1 Michigan college 2 Limerick man 3 "--partridge 
in ..." 

4 Surprise 
5 Miss Garbo 
6 Above, to Key 
7 Gone by a Moscow news name 9 Roofing tile 10 Public square decoration 
111991 Broadway smash 

24 Places that draw crowds 25 Hoarder 27 Life of a region 28 Swashbuckler Flynn 29 "Bareback" rider? 31 Money back 33 Boca--, Fla. 34Sawwood 36 Be ill 37 Audio systems, for short 
~ 
~ 
~ 
! 
~ 



LNO 

STEERING CO:MMITTEE 
40 "Beat it!" 54 Lover of an Irish 
Notte Dame 

Rose
44 Not a purebred· ' 55 Store news
46 Pencil part 
NORTH SOUTH 
57 Unctuous 
48 Senhora .·.·• Shrimp Poppers Cheese Lasagna 
58 Hideout 50 Tart flavor 
Sugar Snap Peas Rissole Potatoes 
59 "As I Lay Dying" 52 Subdues character 
Red Bliss Potatoes Green Beans 53 Repeated 62 Wallet items musical phrase 63 Dah's partner 
Saint Mary's 
. 
. . 
Pork Chops 

Get answers to any three clues 
Vegetarian Quiche 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
Fresh Vegetable Trio 
5656 (75¢ each minute). 
. 

Friday, February 2, 1996 
not let a marital disagreement get 
your goat. Someone from your past reappears. 
YOU'D BETTER WEAR 
THE INTE.RNATIONAL 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Look before you leap into new ven­tures. An investment mistake could 
SYMBOL OF THE "RED 
CROSS" ON YOUR prove costly. A casual relationship of long standing may blossom into a
C>ACK. 

closer attachment now. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Some­one may try to tum a financial set­up to their advantage. Exercise cau­tion with jointly-owned funds and shared assets. A romantic relation-
l'oF INTEREST 
••corntnding Killer Thoughts: Creating a More aart1l•ftfendly Human Nature" will be presented today at 4:lS' p.m.• by Professor George Howard of the Kroc ln~titute and Department of Psychology from the University of Notre Dame. The lecture will take place in the Seminar Room C-103 of the Hesburgh Center. 
Job Seekers: Fr. Bob Lombardo, class of '79, is re~ cruiting volunteers to help serve at the Saint Anthony Reijderif;e for formerly homeless men located in New York City, There is a variety of tasks you can help with ·•. •~.· ranging f'rom counseling to spiritual and recreational actiVities. You will be proVided with room and board, h~alth insurance, and a stipend of between $150 -$200 a month. in addition. you will gain real work-experi· .en,ce and the opportunity to live your faith more fully. .. Fr. Bob will be on campus on Thursday from 2~5 P.M. and 7:30-9 P.M., and Friday from 9:30·12 P.M. and 
2:30 to 5 P.M., October 26-27, to discuss how you can be a par.t of this exciting project. Stop by the during these times or call Patty at the Center (631-5142) to schedule an appointment. 
•MENU 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take the slower but surer path to your goals. Hold fast to n;cent gains without trying to enlarge on them right away. Putting all of your eggs in one financial basket could lead to a setback. 
LIBRA (Sept 23-0ct. 22): Risky or expensive projects should be avoided, even if your intentions are the best. Patch up a fractured friend­ship without further delay. Profits rise thanks to a publishing or adver­tising venture. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Tact and cooperation are essential at work. Do not jeopardize your sav­ings; easy gains will prove elusive. A romantic adventure may stir your imagination. Be discreet 
SAGI'ITARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): A project started in recent days is completed satisfactorily. A domestic matter requires immediate attention. Even routine tasks can be rewarding if approached in the right spirit. A positive attitude is the key to contentment 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Persistence is necessary to move ahead. Postpone non-essential travel. Make good use of the phone, fax and e-mail. A new interest will fill you with enthusiasm. Devote more time to developing your spiritual side. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Unusual events may put extra money in your pocket An expensive burden will soon be lifted. A new social undertaking should have both emo­tional and financial benefits for you. Avoid arguing with your loved ones. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Differentiate between facts and assumptions before making an irrev­ocable decision. Protect your home and income. There is no reason to feel guilty about giving your loved ones' needs top priority. Family life must come first 

• 
I' 
• 
.. 

SPORTS 
page 20 Tuesday, October 24, 1995 
• WOMEN'S SOCCER 

• 
Irish thwarted by uninspired effort against Duke, UNC 
By DAVE TREACY gin the Duke contest, which has Sports Writer become the norm for the team this season. The passing game, If the women's soccer team Notre Dame's trademark, was 
had thrived against their com­not established early, allowingpetition in Houston, a celebra­Duke to play their own ball­tion definitely would have been control game. 
in order. "As long as we come out flat Don't put the champagne on in the first half, we give the 
ice quite yet. other team a chance to get go­
In a tournament highlighting ing. It's something we really the powers of collegiate wom­need to work on," stated de­en's soccer. Notre Dame offered fender Amy VanLaecke. a disappointing showing. The "Coming out slowly has a Irish tied a less talented Duke major effect on our game,"squad 2-2 and lost to top-rated agreed head coach Chris 
North Carolina 2-0 in the Petrucelli. "If we don't get on Houston Cup Challenge. them early, we lose that advan­
Fortunately for the Irish, the tage. We need to come out and weekend's festivities shouldn't play strong and with emotion." hurt them too badly. The Irish The Blue Devils took advan­
are the top team in the Midwest tage of the team's sluggish play region and should receive an by putting pressure on the Irish automatic NCAA tournament defense, and scored early in the berth. But their performance contest. Kristy Whelchel put in will hit home in other areas. a header off of a corner kick by 
most notably in Notre Daine's Mandy Lehr to open the scor­confidence level. ing. Goalkeeper Jen Renola The Irish came out flat to be-dove to attempt a save but had 

The Observer/Mike Ruma Attacker Monica Gerardo battled with the Tarheels' Staci Wilson in the contest against North Carolina. Gerardo also registered an assist against the Blue Devils. 
no chance to stop the shot. 
After the first goal, the Irish began to improve their play, and were able to keep the ball in Duke's half of the field for the remainder of the half. However. the squad was unable to convert on several scoring opportunities, negating the hard work. 
Petrucelli was displeased with the Irish effort in the first half. "In the first half, we couldn't 
put together a sentence, let alone a passing offense," Petrucelli said. "I gave proba­bly the most emotional speech I've ever given at halftime. I told them that if they want me to yell at them before the game starts, I'll do that if it'll get them going. I've never been so upset with my team as I was today." 
The Irish came out much stronger in the second half. 
They began to maintain ball control, which resulted in a goal by senior Rosella Guer­rero. Good team passing in the Duke half of the field led to an open situation for freshman at­tacker Monica Gerardo. With a free look at the net from 20 yards away, Gerardo opted to pass to the streaking Guerrero for the easy goal rather than 
see SOCCER I page 15 


Paxson revisits old territory 
• 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 

Former Notre Dame basketball star John Paxson returned to the Joyce 
Center last night as an assistant to Chicago Bulls' head coach Phil 
Jackson (right). 

Football 
vs. Boston College October 28, 3:30 p.m. EST 
Hockey 
vs. Boston College October 27, 7 p.m. 
Men's Soccer 
vs. Western Michigan October 26, 7:30p.m. 

By MIKE NORBUT Sports Editor 
Chicago Bulls coach Phil Jackson had an interesting bit of inside information about Notre Dame's Joyce Center. 
"The floor's a little hard here," he said. "I didn't want to play any of the guys too long." 
That's the advantage a coach has when he has an assistant that knows the territory. John Paxson can navigate the Irish hardwood with ease. 
The former Notre Dame and Chicago Bull great returned to his old stomping grounds Mon­day night to watch his team lose in an exhibition game to the Seattle Supersonics, 99-97. 
Three years after his retire-
Women's Soccer 
ment from professional basket­ball, Paxson is now an assistant coach for the Bulls. 
A mainstay on Chicago's three consecutive champi­onship teams at the start of the decade, he's taking a new angle on the game of basketball. 
But at the same time, shoot­ing a three-pointer to clinch an NBA Championship victory over the Phoenix Suns is one thing. Devising a play to get a guy open to shoot is another. 
"I've only been around for seven games," he said. ''I'm still learning things, but this is what I want to do." 
He's not quite as new a face, or head of hair. as Dennis Rodman, but Paxson is a defi­nite positive influence on the present players. He is able to disclose secrets about oppo­nents because he's played against them. 
And with a young team whose players aren't too familiar with one another, having a younger member of the coaching staff can only help team chemistry. 
"We're positive we can put it together," Paxson said. "We have a year to get some chem­istry together and get ourselves into a good playoff position." 
Still, nothing beats being on the court. 
"Coaching is the next best thing to playing," he said. "You can't beat wearing a uniform." 
John Paxson is still in a uni­form. Only now it's a suit and tie. 
• Men's Soccer struggles in Big East 
vs. Xavier October 25, 7 p.m. vs. Boston College October 27, 
see page 17 7:30p.m. 
• Hockey off to rough start Saint Mary's Sports 
Soccer at St. Francis College see page 18 October 25, 3:30 p.m. Volleyball vs. St. Xavier College • Volleyball and Cross Cournty results October 25, 7 p.m. see page 14 





