
Thursday, April6, 1995• Vol. XXVI No.l17 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

By EDWARD IMBUS for the Progressive party 
Associate News F.diwr from 1953 until retiring in 
1989. distinguishing herself 
With great fanfare and a by consistently opposing 
standing ovation, University apartheid. even though she 
PresidP.nt Father Edward was the sole anti-apartheid 
Malloy presented the 1995 member from 1961-74. 
Notre Dame Award to Helen She regularly clashed with Suzman. a former member of prime ministers supporting the South African parliament the apartheid regime and .and staunch opponent of averaged 200 parliamentary apartheid. questions per session, most of 
"For many ynars the princi­them embarrassing to the 
ple export of South Africa government. 
was shame. No more. Now Suzman stood out among 
the name evokes a sense of anti-apartheid advocates as 
hope," said Malloy. well by not supporting 
"(Suzman) doesn't fit our pro­international sanctions 
file of a (stereotypical) free­against her country because, 
dom lighter, but that is pre­she said last night, she feared 
cisely what she is ... We are "killing the disease but also 
honored by her presence." the patient, which nearly 
Suzman was a member of 
the South African parliament 
see SUZMAN/ page 4 
Casey to visit amid rumors 
Former governor touted as Clinton opponent in '96 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
Associate News Editor 
The speculation continues: 
Will Robert Casey make a run for the 1996 Democratic presidential nomination? 
Casey, the former governor of Pennsylvania who will be speaking tonight on the Notre Dame campus, has kept his intentions quiet. But by establishing an exploratory committee two weeks ago to assess the feasibility of a pres­idential run, he has indicated that he is considering the pos­sibility seriously. 
While the task of challeng­ing an incumbent for the party nomination can be daunting, Casey will be able to distin­guish himself from Bill Clinton on at least one party plank. A rarity in the Democratic politi­cal machine, Casey is adamantly pro-life. 
Casey's stance on abortion 
has created waves between 
himself and other high-profile 
Democratic power figures. At 
the 1992 Democratic National 
see CASEY/ page 4 
Young to flout Atlanta success 
By ETHAN HAYWARD Andrew Young, former U.S. the Ollice of Student Affairs, the Assistant News Editor ambassador to the United Mentoring Program involves 46 Nations, congressman, and faculty and staff who provide 
In an effort to promote diver­mayor of Atlanta. informal counsel and advice to sity on cam-
Young will discuss the issue Notre Dame students of color. pus, the of diversity and how community Young last appeared on campus Offices of in Atlanta showcased that city's as the principal speaker at the Student diverse culture to strengthen 1988 Commencement exer­Affairs and their successful bid to host the cises, during which he was Student 1996 Olympic Games. awarded an honorary degree. Activities are The address will follow a pri­A graduate of Howard Uni­sponsoring a vate speech to participants in versity and Hartford Theologi­campus-wide Notre Dame's new Mentoring address by Young Program. Created last fall by 
see YOUNG/ page 4 

Anger, power top list of motivations for rapists 
Editor's Note: During Sexual for power, or sadism. The "Rapists see rape as a mental the penis," Franko said. Assault Awareness Week, The anger factor usually stems from SEXUAL ASSAULT] chess game," Franko said. "We need to make it less than Observer will examine various a cause completely unrelated to "Their sole purpose is to guilt manly to rape," Norberg-Bohm aspects of sexual assault on the victim. woman into having sex." said, "and the way to do that is
ON CAMPUS 
college campuses. This is third "The rapist expresses anger The third motivation for rape by social change through ad­in a four part series addressing through sexual acts," Franko -sadism -is different from vertisement. Presently, adver­
Lthe problems and issues ofrape said, "which is caused by PART 3 OF 4 the first two motivations in that tising in the United States glori­Cl.lld sexual assault on campus something frustrating him." the mindset of the sadist is not fies the idea of owning another 
The frustration can arise The lust for power motivates grounded in reality. person. If we could separate By BRAD PRENDERGAST from either of two sources. Be­students on college campuses to "Sadists enjoy inflicting pain," sexuality from dominance, then Associate News Editor cause a person's caregiver is commit rape more than any Franko said. "They use sex as I think you would see a 
traditionally the mother, a other social factor, Franko said. a method by which to torture decrease in the number of The scenario is all too famil­rapist who is upset with his pri­"The power rapist enjoys the victims." rapes." iar. mary caregiver may taken his challenge of subduing his vic­Because rape is generally But the problem remains that 
Every year. about 130,000 anger out on another woman, tim," Franko said. "He doesn't considered to be derived from -in television, movies, and women are victims of rape or Franko said. know the difference between social factors, many doctors be­other media -violence toward attempted rape. That comes to Public humiliation is a second consent and submission. His lieve that the problem of rape men and women is tolerated. a rape every four minutes, source of frustration. Whether sole desire is to conquer." can be eventually curtailed. "Violence has been glorified which raises the question: embarrassed by a woman or by Power rapists believe that "Rape is fundamentally envi­so that men have seen taking 
Why do men rape? another man, rapists tend to getting their victims to submit ronmental," Norberg-Bohm control of women as part of 
Answers are mixed. but the think that by assaulting a is a romantic maneuver, said. "We were born wanting their ascent to manhood." consensus among experts who woman, they will be able to re­Franko said. But rape is rarely to love and share. We weren't Crowley said. "Rape is one of help both victims of sexual as­establish their manhood. sexually motivated. born with the tendency to those ways of taking control." sault and sex offenders is that "Men are fundamentally inse­"Rape is not about eroticism rape." Norberg-Bohm suggested that the drive to rape is motivated cure," said Dr. Craig Norberg­or sexuality," said Red Crowley The solution is to ehange the increased legal reform be con­by a number of soda! factors. Bohm, a member of the Ending of the Men Stopping Violence attitudes that some men have tinued, but he also noted that 
Aeeording to Dr. Mick Men's Violence Network in organization based in Atlanta. toward asserting their man­the law can only change atti­
Franko, a sports psychologist Boston. "For many men, they "It's about violence." hood, said Franko and Nor­tudes so far. for the Notre Dame Athletic De­constantly have to reassert con­Moreover, a rapist often shuts berg-Bohm. "Making rape more of a partment, rapists commit as­trol, and that sometimes means out the severity of the damage "We need to relate to men felony won't make much differ­sault out of anger, the desire rape." he causes. that power doesn't come from ence," he said. 

page2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, April 6, 1995 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Land of the 
free and home 
of the brave 
We live in the most powerful nation in the world. Most of the stu­dents and faculty at this university were born here. As an American child, I remember every believing in this country as the greatest place in the world. Not only was this country beautiful and filled with peoples of many countries and many cultures, but it was strong and, more importantly, free. 
Every morning when I lived in Germany, I rose to the sound of the national anthem, the music that reminded me of what it means to be an American and free. However, it seems to me that too many people have forgotten. 
In the country I remembered, no one burned flags because our people believed that the sym­bol of their nation, a nation who fought and won the battle for their freedom, was just another piece of cloth. It was an emblem, a reminder of the pride which every citizen of this nation should inherit when they inherit the legacy of freedom. 
In the country I remembered, we didn't have to worry about having to protect the rights of women and of other races because our consti­tution ensured thier rights, because our people were not ignorant or biased, because our nation was formed with the belief that diversity is beneficial and that all men are equal. 
In the country I remembered, crime was pun­ished properly because our courts were just, because our people believed in innocence, and because our officials had dignity. Deviancy was not encouraged by a rabid media and an insa­tiable interest in the darkness of life. 
In the country I remembered, children weren't killed before they had an opporunity to live because all lives were protected, because all life was respected, and because all parents were responsible. The freedom to choose was a power which was respected in all situations, but the ability to discern between choice and murder was understood. 
In the country I remembered, education was free because our people had a hunger to learn and create, because our schools were safe, and because our future was important. The chance to attend a noble institution wasn't based soley on athletic ability or economic means or politics but on character and demonstrated excellence. 
In the country I remembered, people support­ed the armed forces because they realized that these people would give thier lives to protect us, to protect our freedom, to protect our cul­ture. Our people recognized the need to respect and support our military and our honor. 
In the country I remembered, people were concerned with the promotion of the public good because our elected officials represented the people and not a lobby, because our people wanted the world to know of thier glory, and because our legacy would continue. 
Perhaps I am too idealistic, but I like to 
believe that people like me still exist, people 
who believe in the greatness of our nation. No 
matter what outside force has tested the 
American nation, we have surmounted it. 
However, internal forces threaten to divide the 
nation. People have grown so obsessed with 
thier own needs that they don't try to con­
tribute to the nation. Perhaps one day the old 
glory and traditions will return... Congress is a 
good start. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 

• TODAY'S STAff 
News Production Ethan Hayward Belle Bautista Jamie Heisler Tara Grieshop Sports Andy Cabiness Lab Tech Dane Kramer 
Graphics Tom Roland 
Accent 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
N.J. wildfire burns 20,000 acres in the pine barrens 

WARETOWN, N.J. 
A wildfire that investigators said may have been set swept through nearly 20,000 acres of southern New Jersey's Pine Barrens and came with­in 50 feet of some homes before it was stopped Wednesday. 
In two days of battle between fire­fighters and wind-driven flames that raced through parched woods of pine and scrub oak, no houses were destroyed and no injuries reported. 
Huge plumes of smoke rose hun­dreds of feet into the sky. National Weather Service radar showed one plume stretched 20 miles off the New Jersey coast. 
Firefighters stopped the fire's spread and hoped to have it under control by evening, although spots were likely to smolder until it rains. 
One flareup closed down a 10-mile stretch of the Garden State Parkway while firefighters worked along the shoulder and smoke drifted over the road. The fire closed the same stretch of road for several hours Tuesday night. 
Dave Harrison, chief of the state Forest Fire Service, said the fire was suspicious because no lightning was known to have hit in the area where it began. 
It's the state's largest single forest fire since 1971, when a blaze burned across 21,000 acres, the New Jersey Forest Fire Service said. 
Lugar proposes national sales tax 
WASHINGTON 
Sen. Dick Lugar of Indiana, a Republican presidential hopeful, today proposed eliminating the federal tax system and replacing it with a national sales tax he said would be fairer, sim­pler and a boon to U.S. exports. Lugar said his plan would abolish the federal individual and corporate income tax, as well as taxes on capital gains, gifts, 

and inheritance. In their place, he proposed a 17 percent national sales tax -the level studies suggest is neces­sary to raise as much revenue as the current system. Under his plan, Lugar said the taxes could be collected by the states, allowing the Internal Revenue Service to be abolished. And he said a good deal of the higher price the tax would conceivably cause on retail goods would be offset because suppliers would not have to factor corpo­rate income taxes into consumer prices. 
Freshmen get drunk first week 
BOSTON 
More than half the freshmen attending colleges where drunken parties are a way of life go on a binge during their first week on campus, according to a survey re­leased Wednesday. An earlier report by the same team, published in December in the Journal of the American Medical Association, sampled 17,592 students at 140 col­leges in 40 states. It found that at one-third of the schools, half the students go on drinking binges, meaning they down at least four or five drinks in a row. In the new study, the researchers questioned 720 freshmen at 13 of the same heavy-drinking colleges. They found that 68 percent of new students had hinged by the end of their first semester, 54 percent of them in their first week at school. Dr. Timothy Brooks, dean of the University of Delaware, said many college administrators view drinking as their biggest problem. 
• NATIONAL WEATHER 
The Accu-Weather<~~>torecast for noon, Thursday, April 6. Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 
............................. ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY «:> 1995 Accu-Weather. Inc. Pressure 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Fire is part of the normal ecology of the Pine Barrens, a million-plus acre forest extending through parts of seven counties in southern New Jersey. Periodic fires enable the for­est to regenerate by causing pine cones to burst and release their spores. 
But development has distorted the natural cycle and when fire does break out, homes and businesses are in the way. Some 700,000 people live in the Pinelands region, on the fringes and scattered through the woods. 
Wind blowing at more than 50 mph Tuesday swept the flames through woods that have received about 2 inches less precipitation than normal this year. 
About 600 people were evacuated, but everyone was allowed to return home by midnight. 
AP Cathy Cartmell said she was in tears when she saw the fire rear up in the woods near her home. 
"You don't realize how quickly things can happen until 
they actually do," she said after returning home. She and 
her husband did not think of fire as a threat when they 
moved in two years ago, but she doesn't regret the move. "We love it down here. The woods, the fresh air, the way of life. Everyone's friendly," she said. "This would never make us move." 
SATAN software appears on network 
SAN JOSE, Calif. 
SATAN appeared today on worldwide computer net­works, an intended gift that could raise hell with securi­ty. SATAN is a new piece of software designed to find chinks in the armor of computers connected to the out­side world by telephone line or networks such as the Internet. It could enable managers to plug cracks in security, keeping unauthorized people from breaking into off-limits areas to steal or scramble valuable data. But it also could help malicious hackers, showing them weak spots in defenses. The program, which already has cost one of its designers his job, was made available this morning on several Internet-connected computers around the world. "It works pretty well. It installs easily. I am running it as we speak," said Roger Safian, director of the Computer Emergency Response Team at Northwestern University. SATAN designer Dan Farmer and his partner said they released it despite fears that hackers will use it to execute break-ins. 
FCC votes to improve kids TV 
WASHINGTON 
Concerned that TV broadcasters are not meeting the needs of children, federal regulators decided Wednesday to study ways to improve the situation, including a controversial plan that would force stations to air a mini­mum amount of educational programming. If the plan is adopted by the Federal Communications Commission, it would be the first time the government ordered stations to provide a certain number of hours of educational shows for children. Under the plan, devised by FCC Chairman Reed Hundt, broadcasters would be required to air a minimum amount of shows a week, but could choose to pay other stations to produce and broadcast some of them. The FCC proposed two options for impos­ing standards: requiring stations to air an average num­ber of hours a week; or telling stations that if they don't air a specified amount of shows they could run into trou­ble when they renew their license. 
VIB Associated Press 
Viewpoint Tom Johannesen Michael O'Hara 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. VIa Associated Press GraphicsNet 
C1995 Accu-Weather, Inc. 

Atlanta  75  49  Dallas  60  53  New Orleans  67  62  
Baltimore  47  30  Denver  72  45  New York  38  23  
Boston  31  20  Los Angeles 73  58  Philadelphia  43  27  
Chicago  49  18  Miami  83  69  Phoenix  89  59  
Columbus  45  18  Minneapolis 56  18  St. Louis  61  32  

.-----------------------------------------------------------------------------­
rhursday, April 6, 1995 
The Observer • NEWS page 3 

Tehranian: World order bleak 
By WENDY GRZYWACZ 
News Writer 
"The discourse of the new world order has gone from eu­phoric optimism to now a kind of dark pessimism." said Majid Tehranian in his lecture enti­tled "Globalism and its Discon­tents: Modernity in a Frag­mented World." 
(ln'ering his own thoughts on the current post-Cold War or­ders. Tehranian, currently a professor at the University of Hawaii, responded to the pro­gression from Francis Fukuyama's "end of history" to Samuel P. Huntington's "clash of civilizations." 
"Both Fukuyama and Hunt­ington have a great deal of truth in what they argue" said Tehranian. He then presented an alternate view, illustrated through the example of the Is-Iamie world. 
"The Islamic world provides a classic example of a series of responses to tradition, moder­nity, and postmodernity," ac­cording to Tehranian. 
The Islamic return to tradi­tion of the Prophet, rise of Is­lamic modernism, rise of neo­traditionalist fundamentalism, and the post-modern Islam characterize this response from the mid 19th century to the fu­ture. 
"It is more meaningful to talk about the new world order in terms of the old world order" by tracing the process of mod­ernization through four global evolutions, namely develop­ment, democratic, communica­tion, and control revolutions," said Tehranian. 
"Global communication, from print to Internet, has played a dual role" in the process of modernization by presenting a paradoxical situation that "empowers local cultures and resistances against global ho­mogenization," said Tehranian. 
Two unintended conse­quences have resulted from the increase in communication, ac­cording to Tehranian. 
Both "the rise of cultural and political resistance against global hegemony by the rise of ethnocentric, neotraditionalist and neoconservative move­ments" and "the rise of a post­modern skeptical and relativist culture" have surfaced as these consequences, according to Tehranian. 
Tehranian, a native of Iran, is a highly esteemed figure in international affairs and politi­cal thought. He is a senior fel­low at the Center for Studies of World Religions at Harvard and holds numerous other presti­gious positions. 
289-0033 
Patrick, McCarthy 
unveil plans for ND 
By KRISTI KOLSKI 
Assistant News Editor 
Jonathan Patrick and 
Dennis McCarthy formally 
started their administration 
as president and vice-presi­
dent of the student body on 
April 1. They intend to 
involve student input and 
voice in their projects at an 
unprecedented level. 
In an attempt to create an administration more oriented towards student concerns, they have reorganized the traditional structure of stu­dent government to include two new departments, Campus Communications and the Campus Social Commission. 
Campus Communication will work to establish an easi­ly accessible means for stu­dents to voice their com­ments, concerns, questions, and complaints. Patrick and McCarthy have established a phone line and e-mail address for students to voice their opinions. The Campus Communications commis­sioners, Jeff Ward and Jeff Catalina, will then forward these comments to the cor­rect student government departments. 
"The whole university is go­ing to be networked by next year, and we see this as the right time to make student government accessible through computers," Ward said. 
The commissioners hope that this process will assure that every comment is responded to quickly. Campus Communications will also work to bring the voice of the students directly to the administration. 
Campus Communications also plans to have weekly topic of concern. According to Ward, "student govern­ment plans to purchase space in The Observer covering a topic of the week to see how students feel about those spe­cific issues." 
The Campus Social Commission, under the leadership of Katie Beirne, has been organized in order to promote social events which bring together the 
Thursd~y, Ap.ril 6_: 
. . . . . . . ~ '{f'~~; ~··:: .i.:::: ...;::.; .-~.:~ .1:~·­
. ~ -r~1".!' •· ·.~ 
•••• .I...
7:00 p~m~ ·..·l·...:· 
·•f. 
Badin 24-hr Lou 

Discussion led by Father McBri 
entire campus, not just indi­
vidual dorms. Its purpose is 
to enhance student unity by 
providing activities for all 
dorms to plan and participate 
in large-scale social event 
year-round. 
In addition to these two 
new departments, Patrick 
and McCarthy have continued 
the traditional departments 
including campus improve­
ments, minority concerns, 
women's concerns, the aca­
demic commission, and the 
Board of Trustees reports 
commission, as well as 
continuing the tradition pro­
jects of the Guide and the 
Bookfair. However, under 
new commissioners these 
departments are looking for­
ward to a revitalization of 
their programs. 
In the spirit of stream-lin­ing, Patrick and McCarthy have organized the entire government under the lead­ership of five executive coor­dinators: Todd Leahy will head student life; Andy Eifert will head intellectual life; Tom Matzzie will head the legal department; Jackson Walser will head special pro­jects; and Miranda Sanford will head the public relations department. 
The new legal department will focus on coordinating the efforts of all the dorm judicial boards under one judicial council. 
By providing trained stu­dent advocates to individuals who are called to student affairs hearings, the legal department will protect the individual student's rights in disciplinary proceedings. 
The special projects depart­ment, as billed, will center its efforts on bringing WVFI to FM status. Working with the station on issues of professionalism in broadcast­ing and fundraising, student government will help expe­dite the process of getting the student body of Notre Dame an FM station. 
The work of the whole staff will be coordinated by Kelly Cornelis who has been ap­pointed student body secre­tary, and Mark Mitchell who has been appointed chief of staff. 
:1~~..,-~;: .. ~.· .. r "L ,1• .·:· ~~·~.l :. 
Toppings Onions • Green Pepper • Beef Pepperoni • Mushrooms Black Olives • Ham Cheddar Cheese • Hot Peppers Sausage • Bacon • Pineapple  Extras Twisty Bread & Dipping Sauce $.99 Pizza-Garlic-Jalapefio available on request Coke or Diet Coke $.50/can $1.49/2-liter  

page 4 
The Observer • NEWS Thursday, April 6, 1995 September 1994 speech at the 
nomic history, Suzman foundChristian Coalition Annual Con­herself drawn to politics after
Casey Young Suzn1an
vention in Washington D.C. 
seeing injustices in economic"How can we justify writing off 
continued from page 1 continued from page 1 continued from page 1 opportunities for blacks. 
the unborn child in a country And she was ready. "In orderwhich prides itself on leaving
Convention, he was barred cal Seminary, Young was a happened." to be considered an equal, one 
no one out and no one
fFom addressing the party be­pastor at churches in Alabama must be better than they are," 
behind?"
cause of his pro-life leaning. and Georgia in the 1950's That view, however, did not she said, referring to the other
However, abortion would not
Casey brings his political cru­when he first become involved alienate her from others. In­members of parliament.
be the only key point on his
sade to 101 DeBartolo Hall in the civil rights movement. deed, Archbishop Desmond "Luckily that was not hard." 
proposed presidential agenda. 
tonight. His challenge of re­Young was associate director Tutu, a leading activist against
"If and when (Casey) makes a
maining pro-life in the political of the Department of Youth apartheid who supported sanc­As a member of parliament
decision to run, he would lay
arena will be the topic of his Work for the National Council tions, said of Suzman, "She was Suzman had several benefits 
out a comprehensive plan for
speech at 8 p.m. Admission is of Churches from 1957-61, extraordinarily courageous in that others did not. She specifi­
running the country," Karen
free. then joined the staff of the standing up to the bullying of cally noted that she was given
Walsh, spokeswoman for
"In the pro-life movement, he Southern Christian Leadership the racist and quite obnoxious access to many areas off-limits
Casey's exploratory committee, 
is regarded very highly," said Conference and served as an government ... help(ing) many to most others, such as the
told Penn State's student news­
Maureen Kramlich, president aide to Dr. Martin Luther King, to hold on to the hope that one townships and the prisons. 
paper, The Daily Collegian,
of Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Jr. He later became executive day this tyranny would pass." It was during a visit to the
early this week. 
Right to Life, which is co-spon­vice president of the confer­Suzman is also the holder of prisons that she met Nelson
It is too early to say what the
soring Casey's lecture. "He has ence and outlined a new direc­the UN Human Rights Award, Mandela, now president of
plan would include, Walsh
consistently stood up for what tion for the organization stress­conferred on her in 1978, and South Africa. She described
added.
he believes in." ing voter registration and polit­of 21 honorary degrees from him as "a tall, commanding ical action. colleges worldwide. man with real dignity, destined
Born in Jackson Heights,
During his tenure as gover­He was elected to Congress in After accepting the award for leadership." 
N.Y., in 1932 and raised in
nor from 1987-95, Casey 1972 and was twice reelected from the president, Suzman re­
Scranton, Pa., Casey graduated
pushed for restrictive measures before accepting President counted her time in parliamen­She lauded efforts by the
from the College of the Holy
on abortion, including the Carter's nomination to serve as tary politics, citing "a deep press to bring down apartheid
Cross in 1953. He attended the 
Pennsylvania Abortion Control ambassador to the United Na­aversion for injustice" as the by giving her an avenue to ex­
George Washington University 
Act. Passed in 1989, the bill tions. Elected mayor of Atlanta impetus for her efforts. press her views and advocating
Law School, where he earned
limits abortion after 24 weeks in 1981 and again in 1985, full democracy. 
his Juris Doctor in 1956. 
of pregnancy. except where the Young made business devel­Being Jewish, and facing dis­The gala was marked by sev­
After a 25-year career in
mother's life is threatened, and opment and the creation of jobs crimination for it, helped Suz­eral prayers and songs from 
state politics and in a private
rllquires a teenager to obtain his major priorities. He is now man understand the problems the Notre Dame Folk Choir ­
law practice, Casey was elected
consent from at least one par­vice chairman of a multina­of prejudice. She also noted, who began the event in a pro­ent. to the first of two terms as tional engineering and envi­though, that she "did not suffer cession singing "He is Wonder­
governor in 1987. Six years
The bill also requires a doc­ronmental consulting firm and the disabilities of the poor." ful!" -and the Voices of Faith 
later, he underwent a heart­
tor to give a woman the facts co-chair of the Atlanta Commit­Initially a professor of eco-Gospel Ensemble. 
liver transplant operation. 
about abortion prior to the tee for the Olympic Games. 
Casey spoke once before at
operation, and requires a 
Notre Dame, visiting the Law
woman to wait 24 hours to con­According to Judy Hutchin­
School in 1992 to lecture on the
sider the information before son, rectress of Breen-Phillips 
morality and politics of abor­
undergoing the procedure. Hall and organizer of the event, 
tion. He received an honorary
Casey has in the past taken Young was selected for his pro­
doctor of law degree from the
his pro-life message outside the ficiency in cultivating a diverse
University in 1993, the same
boundaries of the Pennsylvania community like Atlanta, not to 
year his son Matthew gradu­
state lines. mention his tremendous speak­
ated from Notre Dame. 
ing skills. 
Tonight's lecture is also spon­"Since when does America sored by the Notre Dame Law
abandon in despair an entire Young's address will begin
School's Right to Life group,
class of people, the most de­tonight at 8 p.m. in Stepan
the Office of Campus Ministry, 
fenseless, innocent and vulner­Center. Free tickets are avail­
and the Graduate Student
able members of the human able at the LaFortune Student
Union.
family?" Casey asked in a Center box office. 



• A CLOSER LOOK AT•••THE WOMEN'S RESOURCE CENTER 
"Providing information, networking, and support for gender issues to the women and men of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's... " 

WRC quickly makes impression on campus 
By EDWARD IMBUS cerns Commissioner Katie Associate News Editor Glynn found representatives from the residence halls to at­
Though founded as an official tend a meeting to gauge un­student organization only two dergraduate support for the years ago, the Women's Re­center, according to Chalk. source Center has an extensive "At the meeting, people were history of ambitious plans to really excited about a women's support women at Notre Dame. center," she said. 
The idea of a women's re­In response to the meeting, source center began five years Flynn offered use of the student ago when an arm of the Grad­government conference room, uate Student Union (GSU) spon­which had earlier been com­sored a study of female gradu­pacted for technical reasons, as ate students to assess how an initial center. Since it was women's needs were being met student government space, and how to improve upon them. according to Chalk, approval The results overwhelmingly was necessary by the Student favored a resource center, ac­Senate, which consented. cording to Center President After announcing the center's Linda Chalk, and the GSU rec­existence, an official response ommended its formation in its was received from the Univer­report to the University Board sity, who had authorized Vice of Trustees later that year. President for Student Affairs 
In December 1992 a petition Patricia O'Hara to consider the drive in support of the center proposal. began, Chalk said, and received According to Chalk, O'Hara about 1,000 signatures. stated that she did not believe 
Soon after, a Committee on that a resource center was a Women, comprised of both fac­good way to respond to wom­ulty and students, was created en's needs. O'Hara raised con­to examine the issue much cerns that the center would "do more closely. Chalk character­more harm than good," accord­ized the committee as "free ing to Chalk, and would drive floating," as it fell under the the genders further apart. auspices of both the Faculty O'Hara also felt that the Coun­Senate and the Provost. seling Center, the University 
That committee endorsed the Health Center, and Campus concept, and formally proposed Ministry were already address­the center's creation in a report ing women's needs adequately to the Faculty Senate, which and appropriately. approved of the plan. The pro­The group then registered for posal was then sent in March club status, and has been al­1993 to the senior officers of lowed to use the student gov­the University. ernment office initially offered 
While waiting for an official to them ever since, and student reply, the group met with stu­body president Jonathan dent government for input. Patrick has extended that offer The former Student Body again, according to Mark President Frank Flynn and un­Mitchell, the student govern­dergraduate Women's Con-ment chief of staff. 
ND secret looks to highlight gender questions 
By AMY SCHMIDT through Thursday. medical, and community support eating disorders. Assistant News Editor "The center is for anyone who is in groups. Anderson said that the Center is "It (eating disorders) is one of the need of resources involving anything an important service because of the lack issues that concerns most people at 
Tucked away on the second floor of from eating disorders to rape," said of attention women have been given at Notre Dame," said Merrie Dwyer, co­LaFortune is one of Notre Dame's best­Emily Anderson, treasurer of the center. Notre Dame in the past. founder and counselor for the center. "It kept secrets. "We're a place where people find out "I think it's because women have been has been a main concern to us." 
But volunteers of the Women's where to get a questioned answered." in a subordinate position and have been Both Anderson and Dwyer encourage Hesource Center hope that through Anderson said that the center does not overlooked at a male-dominated univer­people to come in during office hours if increased campus support, the center function as a counseling center, but sity for so long," she said. they have any questions or concerns. will be a secret no longer. instead refers students to the appropri­In addition to providing referrals to Although the center is becoming more 
The Women's Hesource Center is ate support groups. Some of these students, the center has also sponsored widely known, Dwyer said that people thought by many of the volunteers to be groups include C.A.R.E. (Campus campus-wide events. Two of the more still need to find out more about it. an "untapped resource" on campus. Alliance for Rape Prevention), S.O.S. recent events were the Gender Relations "The center allows women and men to Located next to the Student Government (Sex Offense Services), and the Women's Retreat and a Speak-Out. congregate and discuss issues that are Office, on the second floor of LaFortune, Care Center. This year, the center has received a bothering them," Dwyer said. "You can the center is open to all from 3 p.m. to 5 The Women's Resource Center also grant that will enable them to visit high voice concerns and let us know your 
p.m. and 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. Sunday refers students to various financial, schools to talk about the problem of experiences and problems." 
Center plans for expansion, involvement 
By LIZ FORAN are troubled, although that is Right now, we are just getting Associat< Nows Editor important, too." started." A major goal for the future is McGrath, also the women's 
After working hard to obtain for the Women's Resource resource commissioner for office space, resources, litera­Center to have its own office Student Government, also ture and volunteers, the space some time in the future, hopes to use this position to Women's Hesource Center has McGrath said, and not have to help let people know about the one broad goal left: expansion. rely on other organizations to center. "As an student govern­Above all, the center wants to donate space. ment officer, I hope to increase expand campus awareness of "Then we won't have to beg Student Government involve­the resources made available office space from Student ment in the center," she said. through the center, according Government," she said. "That's not the entire focus of to Megan McGrath, vice presi­Included within this goal to the position, of course, but I . dent of the center. obtain their own space is the would like to see the center get 
"A lot of people don't even desire to become more avail­more attention on campus know where we are," she said. able. "We would like to get through Student Government." 
According to McGrath, many more people involved," Sponsoring more gender re­people don't know what the McGrath said. "We would like lated activities and events, es­funetions of the center are or to increase office hours, but we pecially in coordination with even its general purpose. can only be open when we have other campus organizations is a "We're here for women and a volunteer to open the center." final goal of the center, men who are interested in gen­"We would eventually like to McGrath said. dnr based issues." she said. get to the point where we are "We want people to know we "We want people to know we always open," she added. "But are an integral part of cam­aren't just here for women who that's a point way in the future. pus," she said. 


page 6 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, April 6, 1995 
Jaksic appointed to new provost's office 
Special to The Observer inc!uding vice chair of 
Berkeley's Center for Latin 
Ivan Jaksic, associate American Studies from 1984­professor of history and facul-89. ty fellow in the Helen Kellogg Jaksic formerly was assis­Institute for International tant professor of history at Studies at the University of the State University of New Notre Dame, has been York (SUNY) in Buffalo, appointed to the newly-creat-where he earned his master's ed post of assistant provost and doctoral degrees in histo­for international studies. ry. He also earned a master's 
In this new position, Jaksic degree in American studies at will coordinate the many SUNY-Buffalo, and did his facets of Notre Dame's undergraduate work in the expanding international acad-department of philosophy of ernie outreach, including 15 the Universidad de Chile. undergraduate, international Jaksic's research interests study programs, plus pro-are modern Latin American grams in law and business; intellectual and political his­international research insti-tory. tutes including Kellogg and Jaksic in 1991 was chosen the Kroc Institute for as the personal representa­lnternational Peace Studies; tive of the secretary general area studies and language of the Organization of development programs at American States to assist in Notre Dame and abroad; the selection of the recipient library collections; in-of the Gabriela Mistral Prize, ternational fellowships and an award honoring contribu­internships for faculty and tions to Latin American edu­students. cation. He was later named 
Raised in Chile, Jaksic him-as one of a small group of self was an international stu-civilians to address Central dent in the U.S. and has inte-American military leaders on grated his academic career the necessity of making with administration of respect for human rights an international programs at the essential component of mili­University of California at tary training. Berkeley and the University of .-------------1 Wisconsin-Milwaukee. While at Wisconsin he helped establish an international study program in Chile in which Notre Dame now par­ticipates with Jaksic serving as faculty coordinator. 
Prior to joining Notre Dame's faculty this year, Jaksic was associate profes­sor of history and director of ihe Center for Latin American Studies at OW-Milwaukee from 1989-94. He was associ­ated with Cal-Berkeley and Stanford University in a vari­ety of positions from 1982-89, 

Senate passes appeals proposal 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE 
Assistant News Editor 
The Faculty Senate is not in the dark. 
Despite the fact that there were no lights in the Center for Continuing Education last night, the Senate re-adjourned in DeBartolo Hall to pass a resolution and to discuss two proposals in an effort to more clearly define the role of the Senate at Notre Dame. 
The resolution, which passed by a 20 to 2 vote, reads that "it is the sense of the Senate that it take as one of its regular re­sponsibilities the conducting of surveys of the Colleges and the Law School when the respective dean is up for review." 
It was, also, resolved that this matter be referred to the Committee on Administration "for precise formulation of doc­uments and procedures." 
The first reading of a pro­posal, which was presented by Senator David Rucchio, associ-
WD..DWOOD INN 
BED AND BREAKFAST 
ACONTINlJING SEilmS FOH GIUULIATE STllUENTS PRESENTING 
DOMINIC VACHON, PH.D. 
DISClTSSING 
Maximizing Academic Performance in Graduate School: 
A Workshop Using the Insights of Sports Psychology 
This workshop focuses on techniques for: 
* 
Handling performance anxiety in writing papers, taking tests or making presentations 

* 
Dealing with academic setbacks 

* 
Improving confidence in your study strategy 

* 
Maintaining your concentration 

* 
Improving your ability to pace yourself in academic studies Focusing your energy more quickly 

* 
Maintaining motivation when you're burnt out 


DATE: SUNDAY, APRIL 9TH TIME: 4: 00 P.M.-5:15P.M. AT: FISCHER O'HARA/GRACE COMMUNITY CENTER 
Sponsored by: The University Counseling Center Campus Ministry Fischer -O'Hara/Grace University Village 
Graduate Student Union 
ate professor of economics, was "A Proposal Concerning Ap­peals." It included a discussion of the initiation and develop­ment of appeals of tenure or promotion. 
Though it was discussed by the Senate and is still open to modification, the proposal con­tains the Senate's intention to call upon the Provost "to direct each department or other rele­vant unit to develop and submit a written statement of the pro­cedure to be followed in re­newal, tenure and promotion cases." 
The second presentation, which was delivered by Profes­sor of Finance Richard Shee­han, was the first reading of a proposal labeled "Faculty Sen­ate Self-Study." It examined "the continuing discussion" of "the appropriate role" of the Faculty Senate at Notre Dame. 
Six main topics covered in the proposal included Faculty Sen­ates at other institutions, insti­tutional structure at Notre 
Major Payne (PG13) 4:30, 6:45, 9:15 Tommy Boy (PG13) 5:00. 7:30, 9:45 Man of the House (PG) 4:45,7:15,9:30 Tall Tale (PG) 4:15,6:45,9:00 Outbreak (R) 4:00, 7:00, 10:00 
MADISON OYSTER BAR 
402 Ea:st Madison Street South Bend, IN (219) 288-3776 APPEARING LIVE IN APRIL 
6-Thursday  1-Friday  8-Saturday  9-sunday  
Danny Lerman  DB1yl Bl.l:harm  Kelly Ranking &  StniJy.hzzIJt  
911  DalChamberlain  
Jazz  R&B  Reggae  Jazz  

THUH. SI-IO\V STARTS AT 9 pmFIWSAT STARTS AT /0Jm1 Schedule Suh,cct to Change Call 235-3409 
Dame, attitudes concerning the Senate, problems and weak­nesses with the current Senate, strengths of the current struc­ture, and alternatives for the Senate. 
The proposal "attempts to as­sess what can and should be done to make the Faculty Sen­ate a more efficient body repre­senting the faculty," according to the document. It was also open to discussion and modifi­cation. 
The Senate also voted on members to be elected to cam­pus organizations such as the Faculty and Academic Affairs Committee's Board of Trustees, Campus Life Council, and the Board of Traffic and Parking Appeals. 
Father Richard McBrien, chair of the Faculty Senate, ex­plained to the Senate that "these are basically nomina­tions" because the Senate, as a nominating body, decides names to be placed on the hal­lot. 
CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 & 9:45 

More slaughters reported in Burundi Iraq denies 
By TERRY LEONARD "I ~now the figures to be ac­country, we are traumatiz-Burundi violence 
Associa1ed Press curate," Krueger said Wednes­ing public opinion by giving 
making of day. "Indeed, today some of the them figures that are not BUJUMBURA, Burundi figures were confirmed by a checked. We are telling 
The government said high-level church official." them that genocide has bioweaponsWednesday it would investigate Krueger gave The Associated started." reports of ethnic massacres in Press photographs of about 10 By DILIP GANGULY northeastern Burundi, where people killed near Gasorwe. • Meanwhile, Radio Associated Press the U.S. ambassador said up to They showed grotesquely Burundi said at least 72 450 people have been slaugh­gashed corpses, including two people were killed in three BAGHDAD, Iraqtered in the past two weeks. children reportedly killed with separate ethnic clashes this Iraq today denied U.S. 
The U.N. special representa­bayonets. One victim's face was week. allegations that it is still tryingtive to Burundi said the death partially shot away. Burundi's defense minis­to manufacture biologicaltoll still needed to be verified U.N. special representative ter, Lt. Col. Firmin weaponry.and warned that unsubstanti­Ahmadou Ould Abdallah said Sinzoyiheba, reported heavy Information Minister Hamed ated reports could aggravate he believed reports of violence fighting in northwest Yousef I-lumadi called the ethnic hatred and push the in the Gasorwe area to be gen­Cibitoke province between charges "political fabrications" country into genocide. uine, but he cautioned that the army and extremist that represent "voices of frus­
U.S. Ambassador Robert death tolls there and elsewhere Hutu militiamen. tration and failure" in Krueger said Monday that more in the northeast hadn't been Foreign Minister Jean­Washington that Saddam than 150 people were massa­confirmed. Marie Ngendahayo told a Hussein is still in power. cred in the northeast village of news conference In Washington, President Gasorwe in three days of "We are pushing this country Wednesday the government Clinton said Tuesday that Iraqattacks that began March 29. towards genocide. By we, I was forming a Justice "could be regaining" a capaci­
lie said up to 450 people have mean the international com­Ministry commission to ty to produce biological been killed the past two weeks munity, including the U.N.," investigate reports of mas­weapons while Secretary of in the region. Abdallah said. "In this fragile sacres in northeastern State Warren Christopher said 
The South Bend Civic Theatre 
presents James McLure's 
"1959 Pink Thunderbird" 
A Comedic Soap Opera••• Thxa.s Style/ 
Enjoy 2 separate, but related, One Act Plays: 
LaDDdrJ and Boumon 
aDd 
Lone Star 
Show Dates 
April 6, 7, 8 
A11ril 1!, U, 14, 16 
A11ril 19, ZO, Z1, 22 

For Reservations call234-1112 The Flrehouae•701 Port:a~te Ave• South Bend, 46616 
Muyinga province. 
He could not say how soon the commission would report, or what steps were being taking to ensure it was impartial. Krueger said late Wednesday that the commis­sion would begin its work in Muyinga on Thursday. 
Amnesty International said in a report released Wednesday that Burundi's justice system is dominated by Tutsis and has done little to establish who is responsible for political killings. 
Survivors of the attacks in Gasorwe said they were carried out by men in army uniforms. For its part, the army has said 20 people were killed in the vil­lage after militiamen attacked soldiers. 
Radio Burundi said Hutu gun­men killed a family of six Tutsis in the northern village of Muhanga. Tutsis living in a dis­placed camp retaliated and killed 29 people, it said. 
Another 37 people were killed in the northeast village of 
AP/Carl Fox 
Nyadikere, while the army was trying to disarm Hutu militants, the radio said. It said two gun­men were also killed in an at­tack on a military post in north­ern Burundi. 
The radio did not say when the attacks took place. How­ever, a diplomat, speaking on conditfon of anonymity, said they apparently occurred late Monday and early Tuesday. 
Sinzoyiheba, the defense min­ister, did not release any casu­alty figures, but said an army position in Cibitoke province had come under repeated attack during the last 24 hours. 
A Western source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the report could not be verified because the army had sealed off the area. However, he noted there have been similar attacks in the past. 
Besides Cibitoke there were other reports of ethnic fighting in the northeast, the northwest and the south, Krueger said. 
More than 100,000 people have been killed in ethnic vio­lence in Burundi since October 1993, when elements of the Tutsi-dominated military assas­sinated the country's first elect­ed Hutu president during an aborted coup attempt. 
there was "strong evidence" Iraq had such intentions. 
Much of Iraq's formidable ar­senal of weapons of mass de­struction was wiped out in the 1991 Gulf War or destroyed by 
U.N. weapons experts after the war. 
The U.S. allegations were based on a report by U.N. weapons experts that said Baghdad has not accounted for 17 tons of chemicals that Washington believes were im­ported to grow anthrax germs and the deadly toxin that caus­es botulism. 
Iraq has said it imported the chemicals for medical work, but a country Iraq's size would only need several pounds for that purpose, the United Nations has said. 
Iraq denies it is making any biological weapons and claims it can't account for the chemi­cals because of bad record­keeping. It insists it is comply­ing with U.N. requirements for lifting the international trade sanctions imposed after Saddam's 1990 invasion of Kuwait. 
The American accusations were seen as a setback in Baghdad, where the regime was hoping the sanctions would be eased at the next review, scheduled for May. 
! llllllllj)Jffj 
G·e·····y·... Q····,NL·I:N:e····.­
···; :::...· •.•• / .• .. ' ...· : .• ..• .-::·::. ~ 111--~: 
With Gender Issues at Notre Dame. This Is an electronic discussion group open to students, faculty, and staff at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, to talk about anything that has to do with gender on the two campuses. 
You can subscribe for free and It's EASY! Just send the following e-mail message to: 
LISTSERV .;>VMA.CC.ND.EDU: 
SUBSCRIBE NDGENDER 
your first name & last name 
Brought to you by the Women's Resource Committee of the Graduate Student Union. 
SEE YOU ON THE NET! 
page 8 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, April 6, 1995 
Campus gender myths debated 
By LESLIE FIELD 
News Wrirer 
The object of last night's panel discussion "He Said She Said" was to discuss the stereo­types and misunderstandings existing between the men and women of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame as well as to focus on the myths and misconcep­tions of rape as it exists on both campuses. 
The discussion was the third of a four part series taking place during Sexual Assault Awareness Week at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. The· panel had six members consist­ing of two Saint Mary's women, two Notre Dame women and two Notre Dame men. All six members are involved with the Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination (C.A.R.E.) 
Mediating the discussion in Saint Mary's Haggar Parlor were Annie Korte, a Saint Mary's sophomore who is 
C.A.R.E. co-chair and Fr. Jim Gunshinan, CSC, who has been advising sexual assault victims for the past three years at Saint Mary's. 
One of Korte's main goals was to make sure that people realize that there are a lot of misunderstandings and a lot of questions that need to be an­swered about issues like gender relations and rape. 
The first question posed to the panel asked if they believed that sexual assault did occur here. The resounding answer was "yes." 
Adrian Duran, a Notre Dame freshman, responded by saying, "Rape is one of those things that gets swept under the rug here. We have to remember that 90 percent of rapes go unreported." 
The theme of the ultimate conservative campus was prevalent throughout the entire discussion. Although Notre Dame and Saint Mary's both have centers for students who have been victims of violent crimes, such as Notre Dame's Sex Offense Services (S.O.S.), students feel that there needs to be more done to improve gender relations which would hopefully lead to a decrease in rapes at both campuses. 
Duran later said, " I think there is a real mystique sur­rounding the men and women on the campuses. If we had co­ed dorms, we would get to know each other for real." 
This sparked debate between the panel and the audience. One audience member rebutted by saying that there are many ways to meet people at Notre Dame without having to live next door to them. 
Kathy Rutkowski, a Notre Dame C.A.R.E. member, be.: lieves, "We see one another as unapproachable... we see our differences and not our similar­ities. We need to look at each other as people." 
One discussion participant, who has been the victim of rape on campus, feels the same way. If there were more understand­ing between men and women, she believed perhaps her rape would not have occurred. 
The panel agreed that rela­tions between Saint Mary's and Notre Dame also need to im­prove. 
Members agreed that during Freshman Orientation many rumors start regarding stereo­types given to men and women at both schools. 
All the members hope that through improved gender rela­tions, resulting from programs such as the ones presented this week, many of the stereotypes will be broken and horrible crimes like rape will be de­creased. 
Ar.1t.ivi'tiAiil Board. 
Hall is already ·a. band play .27; thus limit­
~\ll.,....,.,... ot'open days. 
President Jen stated that if a sec­would· be brought 
~""""'''-' hoped 
. abt~to 
to incr.ease c~­
awj:l.reness and supportof 
. organization. In other RHA news: .Regina Hall will hold a Regina Rumage Sale April 19.. 
. • Holy Cross Hall is plan* ning to hold a block party April 27. Anyone interested should contact Holy Cross Hall Representatives. 
• 
Next week's meeting will begin precisely at 6:30 p.m.. due to the Ben and Jerry's presentation at Notre Dame. The RHA Constitution will be xoted upon at that meeting. 

• 
The meeting scheduled for April 17 will be at 9 p.m.; the new RHA board will be in­stalled. 


CAMPUS MINISTRY••• 
•••CONSIDERATIONS 
No LIMITS 
A few nights ago I was with a group of friends, taking the Myers­Briggs Type Indicator Test. 
The Myers-Briggs Type Indicator Test is an instrument which is meant to reveal whether a person is predominately an extrovert or an introvert, intuitive or sensate, a feeler or thinker, judgmental or perceptive. It is supposed to provide a way of understanding ourselves and others better. 
However, the temptation is to use it to define ourselves and others completely and forever. The temptation is to explain everything about a person's past and present based on this multiple question test. 
The temptation is to excuse the attitudes and behavior of ourselves and others because, according to the test, that's just the way we are (''I'm sorry I never listen to you, but I'm an extrovert. I can't help It.. ") . 
Perhaps the most dangerous temptation, based on the results of the test, is to think that we know exactly how a person will act in the future. 
The danger is that we label ourselves and others. The danger is that we leave no room for change in ourselves and in others. 
Ifyou're like me, there are people whom you have labeled a certain way because of something they have done or something they have said. Maybe you have written them of£ Maybe you feel like you have been written off by another person because of something you have done or said. 
Lent is a time to recognize that we are people who are capable of change. 
Lent is a time to die to the excuses which keep us from changing and to die to the excuses which keep us from recognizing that others are capable of change. 
Lent is a time to take a hard new look at ourselves and at other people. Lent is a time to go beyond what we think are our limits. Lent is a time to recognize possibilities. 
By the way he lived, died, and was raised from the dead, Jesus went beyond what were thought to be his limits and revealed a new possibility for human beings. 
It is the Spirit of Jesus who allows us to go beyond what we think are our limits. It is his Spirit who allows us to love in spite of being hurt by others. It is hi's Spirit who allows us to be loved in spite of the way we have hurt others. 
May this Holy Week be an opportunity for us to take a new and hard look at ourselves and each other. May the power of love free us from the confinement of categories and raise us beyond what we think are our limits. 
May we grow in honesty so as to forgive, be forgiven, and move on with our lives so as to join together in the mission that the Spirit of Christ calls us to. 
-Bob Dowd, CS.C 
PALM SUNDAY 
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica 
Sat. Mar. 25  5:00p.m.  Rev. Robert Moss, C.S.C.  
Sun. Mar. 26 10:00 a.m.  Rev. Edward Malloy, C.S.C.  
11:45 a.m.  Rev. John Pearson, C.S.C.  


.r------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, April 6, 1995 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucas Managmg Editor Business Manager Suzanne Fry Joseph Riley 
Nc:ws Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager...........................John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michael O'llara Ad Design Manager ....................... Ryan Malayter Sports Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor..................... Krista A. Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan l'hoto Editor.................................. Rob Finch Observer Marketing Director.......... Pete Coleman Saint Mary's Editor ..............•..... Patri Carson Controller ...............................•............. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Norte Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either msti[Ution. The news is rt'ported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, leuers and Inside Columns pre~nt the views of the amhors, and nO£ necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression of vatying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 s rts 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839~ws/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer. Viewpoinl.l@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
'{E.t;, 1 PlP N?T 1'ER1-IA1S SAY 11-!AT, UM, OR WHA.i 1 VW? ?FoaABL...'! HEAAl~ WHE-N 1 ThoVGrrr I .MlGJ..IT HAVE.~ '1l\AT! ~\J'll;.t.'{ COVLD HAVE .MAYf£. '7Al'D ~'THlN'& 'TO ~ ~rri.VEil-'l ·--~----· COULD YO'IJ REPEA'T 1'HE QUemo~
? 
! I \ 
i ' 
\ ! 1\
:( 
'II 
• LEmR TO THE EDITOR 
Repent the sin ofsupporting gays, lesbians 
Dear Editor: 
I would like to say that I applaud 
the Administration's decision not to 
recognize GLND/SMC. Although it 
may not seem like it, I am not the 
only one who feels that this kind of 
organization has no business being 
on either campus. 
I am also disturbed by the 
GLND/SMC activists that requested 
signatures to reverse the decision. 
I will pray for the supporters. or· 
ganizers, and those involved with 
GLND/SMC so that they will see 
their errors and repent, for 
Romans 6:23 says that "the wages 
of sin is death_" 
Anyone who reads the Bible 
would see that to partake in homo­
sexual activity is a sin and an 
abomination to God. In Leviticus 
18:22 it says "Homosexuality is absolutely forbidden, for it is an enormous sin." Another reference in the Bible refers to homosexual activity as a punishment and as an act of perversion (Romans 1:27). Yet another passage says that -those who are "homosexual offend­ers" will not "inherit the kingdom 
of God" (1 Corinthians 6:9). 

We all know that killing is a sin 
(Exodus 20:13). but I do not see 
anyone supporting the "rights" of 
murd•1rers to meet. Because of 
this, I don't understand how one 
can support one sin and not the 
other. or, why anyone would sup­
port a condemned behavior. 
But I warn you, now that you 
know the truth. you will be held 
accountable for your actions and 
the decisions that you make 
(Homans 1:16). 
STEPHANIE BONK Saim Mary's College Regina Hall 
• 000NESBURY 
YOU q;;f;, YaJ CAN'T t.OOK AT 
JlliT TAKe PHmr.J!1-TH& UISHT Ff?ANC£'3CA, YaJMibt CAT0/777£: OMIN 7HEM,IMFOS8 TINYHAIRS Yair< WIU ON 7H/3 (JI HIS FOR&­
SCLW£3.' MMS ... 
I 
• SOCIETY WHIRl 
Founding fathers a laughing matter 
Merchant and Ivory's new film Jefferson in Paris opens this week. It's about Thomas Jefferson's rumored affair with his black slave Sally Hemmings. Nick Nolte plays Jefferson. The commercial shows Jefferson, Madison, etc. all standing around in their Sgt. Pepper suits in front of the Declaration of Independence. With those big buttons. And their knickers. Who can take the founding fathers seri­ously? 
Josh Ozersky 
You can take it from me: I'm a Ph.D. student in American history, and even I laugh when I think of them. When you read about them. they become real. "Honest" John Adams, drinking two pints of hard cider every morning before breakfast, and then going out test his uncompromising vision against the par­tisans. Or tiny James Madison, with his short arms. framing away at the consti­tutional convention. Of for that matter Jefferson himself. laying in bed at mid­night on July 3, 1826, and trying not to die. "Is it the fourth?" were his last words. Adams died. the same day; they both wanted to see the republic to its golden anniversary. 
I have a lot of respect for those men. But boy, do they look stupid! I can't help but laugh and laugh when I see them in movies like 1776 and Jefferson in Paris , with their wigs and buckled shoes. lloo Hoo Hoo! 
I don't understand it, myself. They wear the same preposterous clothes in Amadeus, and no one laughs. Maybe it's just because we are so used to the fathers' solemn faces on dollar bills, or 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
IM ON& Of me f..A(/if COW80Y9. {111/3 /?A Y, COMPlJ7EI:r3 AN{} ROEJ(J5 IAIIU-RUN f3Vef('(THINC3. RACHU­
CAR.SON WA5 RiGHT. GO Wl3/<e J(J-(N MUIR. AN{} AUJO IBJFOW/ 
/ 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Minds are like para­chutes_ They only function when they are open." 
-Sir James Dewar 
YaJR&l-1/<e q{)'y1f:3 S7AR 
CF.CATUR&, 
f?Oee<T !<IN­
CAlf), SOM/3 SHAMAN.' 
on used car commercials where those faces have mouths that open and close, saying things like "Life, liberty, and NO MONEY DOWN!" or "I cannot tell a lie! Midas is cheapest." 
Or maybe it is the fathers themselves. I don't know. Washington is the worst. Even in his own time he was considered a pill. Someone once painted a picture of him as a child, holding his little axe, and they put his dollar head on the tiny body. I guess there is something about the stuffed shirt that just invites ridicule. I think of Mr. Weatherbee, with his sin­gle hair. Or the various professors and financiers who the Three Stooges are always knocking out or setting fire to. (One politician. Thomas Dewey, was a dead ringer for the man who hires the Stooges to paint his house.) 
That's why they can't make a good movie about the founding fathers. Its impossible to take them seriously. There's Nick Nolte, in his wig, talking about the rights of man. and I just can't keep from giggling. When's he going to write with a feather? There he goes, there he goes! Hoo hoo hoo. 
Meanwhile. there is some kind of plot going on, with Jefferson giving Sally Hemmings the glad eye, and walking around in a bathrobe, and so on. I keep wanting to yell "where's your knick­ers?!" at the screen, like some lout at the Rocky Horror Picture Show. 
In any case, there is no getting around it. It's impossible to think of the found­ing fathers and keep a straight face. You keep waiting for something to hap­pen, like a beer commercial where a bunch of librarians tell two rockers in sunglasses that they should keep quiet. You're just waiting for the inevitable payoff. God, isn't that shallow of me? Can you imagine having such an impov­erished historical imagination that you can't take the Framers of the Constitution seriously, just because they dress funny? And yet. .. 
I still find it hard to believe that there are colonial historians in the world. People who don't laugh instinctively when they see a picture of George Washington. I just can't get over it. That's how stupid I am. Or think of the Boston Tea Party. All these right-wing nuts get boozed up and decide to dump bags of tea in Boston Harbor, but they have to dress up as Indians first! Talk about your profiles in courage! Studying them on a Snapple bottle is enough for me. 
There's all this complicated debate in history about republican ideology, and how John Locke did or didn't have something to do with things like the Boston Tea Party. I can tell you this much: those guys weren't reading Locke when they decided to dress up like Indians. They ought to call it the Boston Beer Party. 
But this is typical of my attitude toward that whole era. I'm a late-twen­tieth century American. My imagination can't go farther back than the early 
'Jn any case, there is no get­
ting around it. It's impos­sible to think of the founding fathers and keep a straight face.' 
republic. (I've often thought that some­one should make a movie about Andrew Jackson starring Clint Eastwood, with an emphasis on duels.) But that's it. I've never "huzza'd" anybody. I get pilgrims and puritans confused, and I picture Increase Mather as looking like the Quaker Oats man. I think about them running around with blunderbusses like Uncle Fester. What can I tell you? I'm just an idiot. I do get a good laugh now and then, though. Just don't hire me to teach colonial history. 
Josh Ozersky is a graduate student in history. He can be reached over e-mail at: joshua.a.ozersky.l@nd.edu 

page 10 
Thursday, April6, 1995 
• MUSIC REVIEWS 
Freedom and 
Ecstasy 
By KEVIN DOLAN Music Critic 
Sarah McLachlan The Freedom Sessions Arista 
out of five
*** 
S
arah McLachlan's new album, The Freedom Sessions, is an interesting mix of bare-bones acoustic music and high-tech commercialism. The al­bum contains eight musical tracks, seven of which are early versions of songs found on Fumbling Towards Ecstasy, McLachlan's critically acclaimed third album. These tracks shed some light on the creative process behind Ecstasy, while a cover of Tom Waits' "01' 55" shows how spontaneously co­hesive McLachlan's backup band can be (this version is a first take, and by McLachlan's own admission, they were all drunk at the time). 
The album also features as its first track thirty-plus minutes of a CD/ROM Multimedia presentation. One of those media, unfortunately, is not a cp play­er. The computer equipment required to make it work is more than what most people have, so for the average listener, this wonder of modern technol­ogy amounts to thirty-plus minutes of silence. Its presence on the album is reminiscent of early 70's progressive rock bands who used full orchestras on their albums. That trend mercifully passed; hopefully, this one will too, because such commercialism on a McLachlan album goes down like a steak on Good Friday. 
That notwithstanding, the rest of the album is solid. "Plenty," consisting of multiple vocal tracks and sparse keyboards, achieves a fearful, confused air that carries the lyric well; "I looked into your eyes/ They told me plenty I already knew. "Mary," a pop-flavored, energetic song on Ecstasy, becomes an intimate emotional experience behind McLachlan's piano and acoustic guitar, and is the The Freedom Sessions' most triumphant moment. "Ice Cream," a brooding, hesitant track on Ecstasy, swings through two and a half minutes, and emphasizes "Your love is better than chocolate" more than "Everyone here" 
Unfortunately, the comparisons to Ecstasy are inevitable, and it is unlikely that this album would float if it had come first. "Ice" features a malicious, thundering bassline, which is intriguing enough, but McLachlan makes some horrible noises with an electric guitar. and the song never really gets going. "Good Enough," one of Ecstasy's highlights, is pure schmaltz, suffocated un­der synthetic orchestration. Despite McLachlan's beautiful vocals, it sounds like the composite love theme from all of the sappiest movies you've ever seen. On the liner notes, McLachlan admits that "mistakes are the best way to learn not to do it." Quite. 
McLachlan's fans will enjoy The Freedom Sessions despite its shortcomings. Recreational listeners, however, would do well to check out Fumbling Towards Ecstasy instead. McLachlan's voice and writing ability are enough to make any album solid, but there are times when that is all that keeps this one above water. 

X Ray Vision 
Local band makes it big in their self-titled debut 

By CHRISTIAN STEIN Music Critic 
X,Ray Roger Jimmy 
X,Ray Roger Jimmy 
out of five
***~ 
C
ombining a mix of alternative and hard rock, X-Ray Roger Jimmy truly produce a 
unique sound on their self-titled first release. With influences like The Beatles. 
Nirvana and The Doors, X-Ray Roger Jimmy strives for a complex sound and feigns away from the sound delivered by so called "three chord heroes" like Green Day. 
Powerful guitars and honest vocals are the staple of this album. Recorded live in seven hours at the famous Chicago Recording Company (the studio used by Smashing Pumpkins, Ministry and Sting), X-Ray Roger Jimmy gives a solid album that makes lasting impressions. Even RCA Records has taken note. 
Together since October of 1994, this local band, which originated from members of Katharsis and The Killing Floor, demonstrates its professionalism through both its mu­sic and its attitude. The peculiar name, derived from a radio code used by soldiers during the Vietnam War, was chosen by bass player Andy Wincek. He brings his funky, driving bass lines to X-Ray's music, while singer and Notre Dame student Jason Thomas contributes his unique, honest voice as well as lyric writing ability. Guitarists Kristopher Johnson and Christopher Lafter combine for a powerful force of heavy as well as intricate leads. Backing the band is drummer E.G. Hannah whose abundance of talent is very evident on all the songs. 
Deep, meaningful lyrics are prevalent throughout as Thomas writes about lust, get­ting dumped by your girlfriend and regret. The album begins with "Host," a loud, fa~t, dark song that immediately makes its presence felt and is fittingly the crowd favonte at live shows. 
The passionate, solemn song "Rain Shower" demonstrates X-Ray Hoger Jimmy's versatility and talent as they slow the pace down and produce a sound that really makes you think of rain. But. the lyrics quickly tell that this song is not about the expected; instead it is about regret. "And the word strikes more powerfully I and it's always the needle of regret/ that pricks me." 
"The Happy Song" is exactly as its title implies -happy. With a fast beat and funky guitars, this song is one of many highlights on the album. The desire to groove increases as this raw, wah-wah filled song rocks on. 
Closing the album is the serene ballad ''Tower of Babel." Haunting vocals, recorded on a dual vocal track, are the forte of this song, but not so that they overshadow the quiet and distressful guitars. Touching on temptation, the solid lyrics give life to the music and provide the song with a truly original sound. 
Last Saturday X-Ray Roger Jimmy put on an amazing show at Corby's and got a great response. This Saturday they are playing at Club 23 starting around 10:00, their last show before their album is released on Monday. By far one of the best albums to come out of Notre Dame, it is well worth buying. X-Ray Roger Jimmy's album will be available at Tracks, MusicLand and also through band member Jason Thomas. 
Christian Stein's music reviews appear every Thursday in Accent. 
ACCENT
Thursday, April 6, 1995 page 11 
• Son SCALE SoDA •CYBERSURF 


By ROB ADAMS 
Music Critic 
Fun,da,mental 
Seize the Day 
Mammoth Records 
o.iftve 
D
o you remember the British hip-hop outfit Marxman? Probably not. Their summer 11JIJ4 release filled with socio-politico­angry rap was as ignored as it was intellectual. Fun-da-mental, a new British hip-hop outfit. has fallen pmy to the same problem. Both groups. who stylistically worship Public Enemy, fail to live up to Chuck D's creed of "makin' beats for tlw minds and for the feets." 
Fun-da-mental's debut, Seize the Day, is sur­prisingly awful, because they have been darlings of the British press since their first single appeared in 1992. Unfortunately, the rest of the British hip-hop scene is stuck in similar dol­drums. British rap is not even the best scene in Europe anymore as French rappers such as MC Solaar and Soon-E MC have taken the title for France. 
Imagine the music of Pop Will Eat Itself, only lllss varied and exciting, the lyrical poise of Chuck D. only less convincing, and the themes and content of Disposable Heroes of lliphoprisy, only more uninteresting. The result is a thir­teen-song album with ten of the songs clocking in at over ten minutes. 

Fun-da-mental's long-winded beats are looped over and over and over, sounding about five or six years behind the times. Their songs are clut­tered and the rappers sound clumsy, finding it hard to keep pace with the flawless rhymes they have written. Dramatic bits and pieces of speeches are often placed at the beginning of songs, but the energy of the speech often does not translate into the song that follows. 
Fun-da-mentals' heart is in the right place, however, and not every song is a waste of time. A fast-paced bassline swerving like a mountain road beyond a primitive, tribal rhythm sets the tone for "English Breakfast." 
The anger is palpable in such lyrics as, "Burning down villages just for fun/Making so much money while people got hung/l'm telling you that's how they stay/Since way back then and also today." An up-tempo funky beat is carefully surrounded by a Middle-Eastern string-section on "Dollars or Sense." 
Fun-da-mental is a band with promise. Their themes are sharp and their ideas are intelligent and worthwhile. However, until their beats are more modern and less cluttered and their rhymes achieve more flow, they will remain just another boring part of Brit-hop. 
Rob Adam's music reviews appear every Thursday in Accent. 

1. 
Encomium -Tribute to Led Zepplin 

2. 
Dave Matthews Band -Under the Table and Dreaming 

3. 
Skid Row -Subhuman Race 

4. 
Van Halen -Balance 

5. 
Freddy Jones Band -Freddy Jones Band 

6. 
Hootie and the Blowfish ­Cracked Rear View 

7. 
Faith No More-King for aDa~~;:; 

8. 
Collective Soul -Collective 


:)' < 
Soul. 
9. Live .. Thr9wing Copper 1o. Pulp Fiction Sourldtrack 
11. Sarah Mclachlan -The Freedom Sessions 
12. 
New Order -Best of New Order 

13. 
Bush -Sixteen Stone 

14. 
Bruce Springsteen -Greatest Hits 

15. 
Mad Season -Above 

16. 
Stone Temple Pilots -Purple 

17. 
Julianna Hatfield • Oftly Everything 

18. 
Blues Traveler • Four 


• Wllco. Am
19 
The Top 20 Is compiled from sales records, week ending April Tracks Is a local record store. 
fJ4}o{j](J)[J)!J 
&JfP(J)~ lj)@(Jrw{])uilf 
Y
ou have three pages to go on your paper, but if you run back to the dorm to check on the score, you'll lose all train of thought. The internet now resolves even this problem, thanks to the brand new ESPNet (formerly Satchel Sports) by Starwave, and other more theme specific sports pages. 
ESPN's home page is located at 
·.Ji!i.iJ!flJ/f·)."!i~/p ·~ http://espnet.sportzone.com/, and has a '--···--· :...::.:.:..~?!/ 
4 
wide variety of information on many of By BRIAN ZELIZOyour favorite sports. Currently, it covers 
Accent Writer 
Major League Baseball, the National Basketball Association, the National Football League, the National Hockey League, college football, men's and women's college basketball, the American and International Hockey Leagues and has expanded coverage of the NCAA men's basketball tournament. It has also added many new 
features to the net since April 1, including: Inside Info, personality profiles, statistics and graphics. In the future, Satchel Sports will be partnering with firms like AP, Knight-Ridder News Services, Pro Football Weekly, STATS Inc. and AIISport Photographic, and will benefit from the services of fifteen national level columnists to augment information and provide varying opinions on the big is­sues of the day. According to Tonya Antonucci of Satchel Sports, "With ESPN, audio and video can't be far behind." 
Every page and link of the new page follows a similar format. The big news events of the day line the top of the page and serve as links to the corresponding Associated Press articles. In the near future, the NCAA basketball and hockey tournaments will head the page. Below the headline events are links to the sports listed above (called Select Sport), to the Zoned Out! page (really cool), and to the Sports Talk page. The Sports Talk page shows ESPN's appreciation of it's users' suggestions and responds promptly to any electronic mail you send them. At the time this article was written, they were running a poll for an All-Time Final Four Team. Once I cast my vote, it was automatically tallied, and the screen was then updated. In the individual sports' submenus, the top sports-specific stories of the day again line the top of the page, followed by the various interesting links each page holds. 
ESPNet focused on simplicity, depth and timeliness of infor­mation when they created their page. The wealth of information present in the basketball tournament section alone is enough to make the most diehard fanatic salivate. They have complete logs on every professional team, inside information, trades, upcoming schedules, standings, statistics, player cards, and much more. Scores of games are usually updated within live to ten minutes of the end of a quarter or period; these scores can include detailed period scoring, quarter or half scoring leaders, or any updates as the games are in progress. 
Other sports pages are also available, if your paper is not due for a few days. The site http://nearnet.gnn.com/gnn/wic/rec.toc. html#spec is the Recreation. Sports and Hobbies home page, and has many links to various specialty sports pages. 
There is a page devoted solely to the NHL under the http://ter­rapin.umd.edu/nhl.html address. This page has links to all the individual team's WWW pages, and it includes standings. leaders and transactions. What distinguishes this page from other NIIL sites, however, are the links to other hockey pages. FTP and Gopher sites, as well as NHL history information and a great sec­tion on the explanation of all 18 major hockey awards including past winners. A monthly schedule concludes the comprehensive page. 
For soccer fans, Pure Web is a collection of links to the Football (aka Soccer) resources of the Internet. Visitors will find links to over fifty international resources, including Web pages maintained for club teams, national teams, leagues and competitions. Pure Web was created by John Stringer and is now maintained by 
• 
Owen Garrett, a Computer Associate working in the Centre for Atmospheric Science at Cambridge University. It's address is http://www.atm.ch.cam.ac.uk/sports/webs.html. 
Another page fills ESPNet's auto racing void. http://www.eng. hawaii.edu/Contribs/carina/ra.home.page.html is the spot for Formula 1, Indy and NASCAR auto racing enthusiasts. This site contains extensive lists of statistical information for each form of racing, links to auto racing news groups and miscellaneous infor­mation (like track addresses), and a gallery of photos. 
Are you a women's sports enthusiast? If so, the http://fiat.gslis.utexas.edu/-Iewisa/womsprt.html page is for you. The Net population is only about 11% female (up from five percent!); this page is hoping to spark more female interest. The Women's Sports Page, put together by a grad student at the University of Texas, is a collection of women's sports resources on the Net that range from rugby to handball to many various basket­ball pages. Some of the sites are collegiate, other links take you to the commercial online sports services that are starting to crop up on the Net. There are plenty of gaps at this site, especially in the softball area, but this is a good start. 
For a quick link to all of the above pages, the http://www.net­gen.com/sis/sports.html address is a good shortcut. These pages have already impressed me. Especially, it seems, when I have papers to write ... 
Cybersurf appears ezJery Thursday in Accent. Brian Zelizo and Aaron Villaruz will be alternating. 

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday April 6, 1995 
•NBA 
Magic triumph despite injury to Anderson 
Associated Press 
Shaquille O'Neal scored 40 points and Dennis Scott had 30 Wednesday night as the Orlando Magic overcame poor foul shooting and the loss of Nick Anderson to rally for a 128-125 victory over the Detroit Pistons. 
The Atlantic Division leaders trailed by 18 when Anderson, who suffered a concussion when he bumped heads with Detroit's Rafael Addison, was removed from the court on a stretcher early in the second quarter. 
But O'Neal, who also had 19 rebounds, refused to let his team lose. Although the Magic was only 32-for-49 from the foul line, Orlando made six of seven free throws in the last 
1:01 with O'Neal making one for a 126-125 lead with 32 sec­onds left. 
Anthony Bowie added a pair of free throws with 8.5 seconds to go, then blocked Lindsey Hunter's 3-point attempt to spoil a 41-point performance by Detroit's Joe Dumars, who made five consecutive shots from beyond the arc to keep the Pistons in the game. 
Dumars made seven of Detroit's 14 3-pointers. Allan Houston hit six treys on his way to 28 points, while Grant Hill had 23 points and 11 rebounds for Detroit. 
Anderson dropped to the floor with 9:21 remaining in the sec­ond quarter after colliding with Addison, who appeared to back into Anderson as the Orlando player tried to get around him to establish rebound position. 
The injury, diagnosed as a concussion, left the Magic with­out its top three guards. Anfernee Hardaway has missed the last two games with an inflamed esophagus, and Brian Shaw sat out because of a strained groin. 
With Anderson lying face down under Orlando basket, Houston hit a 3-pointer in tran­sition to finish a 12-0 run that gave the Pistons a 51-33 lead. The rest of the half belonged to the Magic, though. 
The Pistons fell behind briefly. 7 4-73, early in the third period but answered every Orlando challenge, including a 10-0 run that gave the Magic a 113-109lead. 
Dumars made five 3-pointers in the next three minutes, the last putting Detroit ahead 125­
122. Scott, fouled attempting a 3-pointer, made three free throws to tie the game for the last time with 1:01 left. 
Hornets 84, 76ers 66 
Alonzo Mourning had 16 points as the Charlotte Hornets held Philadelphia to the lowest scoring total in 76ers history in an 84-66 win Wednesday night. 
The 76ers shot only 32 per­cent and scored only eight points in the second quarter. It was the fewest points they have scored in a game since scoring 67 at Cleveland on Jan. 15, 1994. 
The teams combined for only 19 points in the second quarter, the second lowest-scoring quar­ter in NBA history and the low­est total ever for a second quar­ter. 
Fort Wayne and Syracuse combined for 18 points in a quarter on Nov. 29, 1956. 
Charlotte took control of the game with an 11-4 run to end the third quarter. Ahead 53-44, five Hornets scored during the spurt to put Charlotte up 64-48 entering the fourth quarter. The 76ers never got closer than 12 points the rest of the way. 
Despite 40 percent shooting, the Hornets won their second in a row. Larry Johnson had 14 points. while Hersey Hawkins and Robert Parish added 12 apiece. 
Philadephia's starting for­wards, Sharone Wright and Clarence Weatherspoon, com­bined to shoot 4-of-28 from the field. Shawn Bradley led the 76ers with 21 points. 
Johnson scored 10 first-quar­ter points, staking the Hornets to a 24-21 lead. 
Both teams were cold in the second quarter. The Sixers missed 14 consecutive shots and finished the period 3-for­
19. The Hornets were little bet­ter, making four of 2 2 field goals. Charlotte outscored Philadelphia 11-8 for a 35-29 halftime lead. 
Mavericks 130, Lakers 111 
Rookie Jason Kidd got the first triple-double of his pro career with 19 points, 12 assists and 1 0 rebounds as the Dallas Mavericks kept their long-shot playoff hopes alive with a 130-111 victory over the 
Los  Angeles  Lakers  on  
Wednesday night.  
Jamal  Mashburn  led  the  

Mavericks with 32 points, and Lorenzo Williams added a ca­reer-high 19 points and 15 re­bounds as the Mavericks won for the 1Oth time in their last 13 games. George McCloud came off the bench to con­tribute 18 points and Lucious Harris had 16 for Dallas. 
Nick Van Exel scored 24 points and Eddie Jones added 22 points to pace the Lakers, who had their three-game win­ning streak snapped. The Lakers had won eight of their previous nine games. 
The Mavericks took control with a 14-4 run over the final 
5:07 of the third quarter, ex­panding a 78-73 lead to 92-79 entering the fourth quarter. Popeye Jones got the decisive spurt underway with consecu­tive baskets, and Kidd led Dallas' third-quarter spurt with eight points and four rebounds. 
The Mavericks turned the game into a rout by opening the fourth quarter with a 19-12 run for a 111-91 advantage. 
Dallas bolted to a 25-11 lead over the first eight minutes before the Lakers recovered, cutting the deficit to 31-25 en­tering the second quarter. 
The game was tied 62-62 at halftime. Mashburn's 20 points led the Mavericks while Eddie Jones hit seven of eight first­half shots to pace the Lakers with 18 points. 
The Mavericks were without their top-scoring reserve. Roy Tarpley, who was sidelined due to the flu. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Norre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
Female, grad. student,  Ride to Duke for Easter. Call  Coupe Ssp Champagne·Silver,AC  ATIN: BAND MEMBERS  COME ONE, COME ALL  
NOTICES  non-smoking, reliable roommate for beautiful apartment with low rent  Carolyn at 272·7087.  power sunroof,spoiler, 55k miles $9200, '94 ND Grad in Chicago,  For anyone who might be confused, Rachel Stehle IS seriuos  GET NAKED AT THE  
(ex Studebaker guest house) for  seeking a ride to Nashville for  must sell, but hate to part. Call  about being your  •••• BEAUX ARTS BALL •••••  
Summer 95 and year 95·96. Call  easter brk. call patrick X4050  (312) 661-7278  vice-president.  
FORREST GUMP  634-4403.  Love,  This Saturday at 9 is the last Beaux  
CUSHING F ri/Sat 8/1 030 brought by SUB  **************•****  FOR RENT  Need furniture for next year? 4 seniors @ Turtle have LOTS of  Her Roomie Daniells P.S. GOOD LUCK RACH  Arts Ball in the Architecture Building as it is today. The wrecking ball will  
Leaving town?  NICE furniture! Call for details:  show up, join us for the  
Female housemates needed  277-7597  X-RAY ROGER JIMMY LIVE AT  APACALYPSE '95  
You thought our dances were hot  Responsible professional 40-ish  to sublet for summer mos.  CORBY'S APR. 1 & CLUB 23  
enough to set off the fire alarms,  man employed in downtown South  and maybe share lease  '90 Honda Civic Station Wagon,  APRIL 8. SHOW STARTS AT 10.  with the BIG EARL BAND  
wait 'til you feel the spirit of Le  Bend looking to house sit for 3  for 95-96 school year. Mostly  Auto/PS/PB; A/C;AM/FM Cassette;  DECAF  
Mans' Spring Fever.  months to one year. Let me ensure  funished apt. at College Park.  35K;$7600; Call631-5587 (day);  If you watch Days of Our Lives  and dj Starvin' Marvin  
(Countdown to Antostal)  that your home is properly tended  272-1538  234-3927 (evening)  everyday without fail and like to  
while you're away. My current  write, or know someone who does,  Everyone is welcome, any kind of  
$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS$$  home is being redone. Live alone.  COLLEGE PARK CONDO:  please call 631-4540 NOW!!  couple, or no couple at all.  
Are you going to read those things  Have impeccable professional and  For lease, 2 bd., 2 ba. furnished  $$$$i will gladly sell you, no$$$$$  
again? I think not. 2323-2342  personal references. Lifelong  unit, Alarm system. Avail. June 1st.  i'll give ya money for that thing, ya  Looking for undergraduate with  I need a ride to and from  
Pandora's Bks ND Ave & Howard  Michiana resident. Call (616) 699­ Call: (818)441-1275  know, put the letter "K" in front of  solid medical background to write  DAYTON (or CINCINATII) area  
5993.  the word egg, minus the "G" and  bi-weekly column for Accent.  for Easter. Will pay gas and tolls.  
ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAK­ ******•**"'NOTICE•••••••••••••·  add the word "erator'' to it. .... i'm  Please call631-4540  Can be dropped off anywhere  
FAST, 35 MIN TO N.D. SPECIAL  ·························  If you are interested in living at  telling ya, i also know the guy who  in the vicinity. Call Angela x4719.  
"OBSERVER" RATE $50/$60,  Turtle Creek next year, call Chris  cleans carpets, and combine my  I STILL NEED YOU!  
FULL BREAKFAST. THE HOME- Starting at $12/hrl The Princeton is  at 273-·1399 as soon as possible.  $50 per/hr summer job with his car- SAM IS A WUSS!  
SPUN COUNTRY INN, NAPPA- looking for people to teach our test  pet business, we can pay you wellll  Larry is still looking for a ride to  
NEE, 219·773-2034.  preparation courses. If you've  Rent NOW for Fall Semester-com­ call mike at 1679 or andy 1670  Tennessee for Easter Break.  In protest to the lack of quality and  
earned a high score on the GMAT,  pletely remodeled home in great  Knoxville is ideal, Nashville is  variety in dining hall food, I would  
Tired of paying too much and  MCAT, LSAT or GRE and would  student neighborhood. Available to  LOSE WEIGHT FOR SUMMER!  acceptable. If you are going any- like to propose a food fight to be  
receiving terrible service? Call the  like to work 6-1 0 hrs per week, con­ 5 students -5 private bedrooms, 2  After 3 kids, I lost 23lbs., went from  where near those cities this break,  conducted in South Dining Hall  
Dave Hoffman Insurance Agency  tact us at: (800)865-7737  full baths, washer and dryer, large  size 9 to a 3 in 8 weeks, w/o  please call Larry at 634-3597. Will  tonight. It will begin promptly at  
for a no obligation quote. Good  rec room. Your own personal frat  diets/drugs/exercise. All-natural  share gas. tolls, expenses.  6:00pm on the west side. Your  
Student Discounts Available.  Wanted: ride to Pittsburgh, PA for  house CALL NOW 277-0636  products, easy, guaranteed! Kelly  participation is essential to the recti- 
AUTO, HOME, LIFE & HEALTH  Easter Break. Wm help drive and  1-800-209-2150  fication of this problem.  
Call now-259-DAVE (3283)  pay for gas. Call Mel at x3888.  2 BDRM House. Wash/Dry  ADOPTION -A LOVING CHOICE  So be forwarned and  
•  ILOST & FOUND I  ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOY­MENT! EARN THOUSANDS THIS SUMMER IN CANNERIES,  Fireplace, Porch $520/mo. + util. Grad. student pre!. 232-6079 HOMES FOR RENT  OFF CAMPUS NXT. YR? FOR SALE-ON. SIZE SET W/FRAME, 3 DRESSERS, SOFA,  Pediatrician and pediatric nurse happily married for seven years are hoping to share our love with a child. We love the outdoors, have  above all Come prepared!!!!! Dear Mickey from Alumni,  
Lost: Tear-drop multi-stoned  PROCESSORS, ETC.  NEAR CAMPUS  COMP. DESK, DORM FRIDGE,  comfortable home and country lake- I had a good time. Give me a call.  
bracelet at Bridget's the Thursday  MALE/FEMALE.  232-2595  COFFEE/END TABLES, GAS  side cottage. Will provide secure,  -ChiChi (S. S.)  
before Spring Break-PLEASE CALL IF FOUNDI!!I x3842 ask for  ROOM/BOARD/TRAVEL OFTEN PROVIDED! GUIDE. GUARAN­ 2 BDRM AVAIL. NOW $295 MO. 3  GRILL, MORE CALL CHRIS @ 273-2070  loving home with full time mom. Counseling and allowable expens­ ........................................  
Katie  TEED SUCCESS! (919)929-4398  BDRM. NEXT FALL, NEAR CAM- es. Call Kim or Mike at 1-800-469­ Attention Class of 1997  
ext A1082  PUS.272-6306  For Sale:  0559  
I lost a set of keys sometime within  '84 red cavalier  Interested in being a part of your  
the last week. Please call 4-1456 if  AA CRUISE SHIPS HIRING! EARN  LIVE IN A GOOD NEIGHBOR­ 93,000 miles  EASTER BREAK-ATLANTA  class? Apply for Class Council.  
you found them.  BIG$$$+ FREE WORLD TRAVEL  HOOD FURNISHED HOMES  minty  AREAl! I NEED a ride, call 4-4805,  Applications are now being accept­ 
(CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII,  NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT  call Mike 277-2631 with best offer  Jen  ed in the Student Government  
PLEASE 0 PLEASE 0 PLEASE  ETC.) SUMMER/PERMANENT, NO  SCHOOL YEAR IDEAL FOR 3-8  Office on the 2nd floor of LaFortune  
please return the blue suede coat  EXPER. NEC. GUIDE. (919)929­ STUDENTS 2773097  Mac.Pwrbk.$1k obo 284-5256  @@@@@@@@@@@@@  until 5 pm Friday.  
"accidentally'' taken from the Junior  4398 ext. C1 082.  
Class Bash at Union Station on Friday, March 31. You don't want it  SUMMER JOBS  FOR SALE  '86 FORD TEMPO, 57k, $2,000 OR B/0. 631-7119.  There will be a confidential support meeting for GAY, LESBIAN,  Guitarist looking to start a band for  
because it has holes in the pockets  ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  BISEXUAL, and QUESTIONING  next year. Searching for serious  
and the lining is all shredded. It's my only real coat! II  PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  '90 red ford escort, new tires, good condition,  TICKETS  students on Thurs. at 7:30 pm. Call the Q-Line for more information  musicians that like to play a wide variety of music ranging from  
Call isabelle x4717 to schedule its  NEAR LAKE PLACID  $4,000 634-4098  287-6665.  Acid Jazz to Blues to Phish. For  
..  return .  1-800-786-8373  Need 2 grad tix for step-parents  more info please call Dave at  
OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered  Tanja 277-8594  @@@@@@@@@@@@@  x1643.  
WANTED  ALASKA SUMMER JOBS -Very High Earnings Potential with over 8,000 openings! Students work on  at $85,900. First floor location. Finished basement with full lavato­ry. Two bedrooms and two baths on  PERSONAL  Julie Julie Julie Hurley Oh, your hair is brown and curley  Congrats on some awesome pool playing. Maybe I'll learn to hit the  
I NEED YOUI I NEED YOU!  fishing vessels and in onshore can- ground level. Lease back to owner  Ask her if she likes Mr. Furley,  easy shots next time. Just see if  
Looking for a ride to Knoxville,  neries. No exp. necessary.  through May, 1995. Call  000 The Copy Shop 000  And she'll say, "Surely,  you beat me at darts again!  
Tennessee for Easter Break. If  Male/Female. Room/Board &  (616)946-0700.  LaFortune Student Center  He's so big and burly."  
your going to or through, could I  Transportation often free. Call  WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE,  And is you wake her up too early,  Only string? It's everything ... it's  
ride with you?  Student Employment Services for  Laptop Modern: Megahertz PCM­ & WEEKENDS FOR YOUR  She'll give your head a great big  waterproof... it's water resistant. ..  
Call Larry at 634-3597 if you can  Directory. (206)545-4155 ext  CIA, 2400bps data/lax  CONVENIENCE!!!  swirley  it's water absorbant. .. it's super- 
help. Thanks.  A55841  $59.00 Mike: 634-3981  Phone 631-COPY  Because she's not a very nice girly.  absorbant..  

Governor Robert P. Casey
Former Governor of Pennsylvania (D) 

"Remaining Pro-Life in the 
Political Arena" 
Thursday,April6, 1995 8:00P.M. 101 Debartolo 
Reception to follow in the Great Hall of The Hesburgh Center for International Studies 
Notre Dame Right to Life Notre Dame Law School Right to Life Notre Dame Law School Graduate Student Union Campus Ministry Student Government Hall Presidents' Council 


• THE MASTERS•••THE TRADITION CONTINUES 
Davis Love Ill, who qualified for the Masters just last week, is one of many golfers considered to be a contender for this year's title. 
Short game key to victory 
.. 
ByRON SIRAK 
Associated Press 
AUGUSTA, Ga 
It's impossible to turn around at the Masters without tripping over tradition. The Augusta National Golf Club is simply hip-deep in history, wading in milestones and awash with wondrous accom­plishments. 
And like with any institu­tion, change comes reluctantly and progress is measured more in inches than yards. 
All of that will be evident Thursday when play starts at the 59th Masters. 
.And Nick Price tries to be­come the first player since Jack Nicklaus in 1971-72 to 
We'll take 20o/o off when you leave campus with a Hertz Penske truck rental! We've got everything you need to make moving easy -a modern, clean fleet ... free unlimited mileage on one way moves ... convenient coast-to-coast locations ... a free moving guide ... and all the accessories to get the job done. For reservations, call the location below, or check the Yellow Pages for the Hertz Penske location nearest you. 
South Bend (North): 277-0144 South Bend (South): 291·1414 
Leaving campus? 
Rent a truclc from Hertz Penske and get a 20% discount on your one way truck rental. 
200/o Her~z 200/o
·pENSKE
DISCOUNT 
DISCOUNT 
Truck Rents/ 
A~rdable, new, clean trucks at conwenlent rental locatlo1111 
• 10'-24' trucks available  • Automatic transmission and  
• Free unlimited mileage  air conditioning  
on one way rentals  • 24-hour emergency road service  

EHectlw April 1, 111115 Good lh•u July31,1ll85 A "one way rental" means your Hertz Penske truck Is rented in one city and returned to another. 
L -----~r1.:.:.en.= •:.:_se.::e:.;e::,e.!:c':!:.a:!~ -----.J • 
win three consecutive major championships and join only Nicklaus and Ben Hogan has having held three major titles simulaneously since the Masters became a major. 
For the players, the aura of Augusta is as intimidating as the slippery greens. 
"I remember when I first saw the place," Lee Janzen, winner af The Players Championship two weeks ago, said of Augusta. "It was even more awesome than I ever thought it would be." 
The key, as always at Augusta National, is approach shots and putting. 
"These greens are every bit as fast as I've ever seen them," Janzen said. "If you 

Tiger Woods -to play despite back injury 
By PAUL NEWBERRY Associated Press 
AUGUSTA, Ga. 
For a few minutes Wednesday, it looked like Tiger Woods' debut at the Masters was going to end before it ever began. 
But it turned out the 19-year­old Stanford phenom was only suffering back spasms when he cut short a practice round. 
"I'm OK," Woods said after being treated for the injury, which didn't stop him from taking part in a par-3 tournament later in the day. ''I've done it before. It's no big deal." 
Woods, who qualified for his first Masters by winning the 1994 
Press 
are tense and are putting pressure on yourselt these greens will eat you up." 
Janzen thinks several Americans can handle the Augusta greens well enough to end the run of six Masters titles in seven years by for­eign-born players. 
"Corey Pavin, Freddy Couples if he is healthy and Davis Love are all playing well enough to win," Janzen said. He sees the main foreign threat as coming from two­time Masters winner Nick Faldo. 
"He has probably had noth­ing but the Masters on his mind since winning Doral," Janzen said of Faldo's victory in Florida a month ago. 
DEFENDING OEATH ROW INMATES IN TilE 90'S <.~LIVE STAFF'OH.D S.l\tiiTI-1 DIRECTOR. LOUISIANA CRISIS ASSISTANCE 
CENTER 3:30 P.M. .FRIDAY, APRIL 7, 1995 COURTH.OOM NOTRE DAJ\IIE LAW SCHOOL 
In cooperation with Notn~ Dame Law School & National Coalition to Abolish the Denth Penalty 
U.S. Amateur, winced after hitting his tee shot on No. 5 during a practice round, then grabbed his back in pain after hitting the sec­ond shot. 
He walked to the green, picked up his ball and, after talking with tournament officials and one of his playing partners, Nick Price, hopped in a van to be taken for treatment on the eve of the biggest tournament of his young life. 
Tiger Woods became the youngest U.S. Amateur champion last August at age 18. Paired with defending champion Jose Maria Olazabal in Thursday's opening round of the Masters, he left little doubt that he'll be ready. 

•NHL 
Red-hot Blues cruise, unbeaten in last seven 
Associated Press 
Brett Hull scored his 22nd and 23rd goals as the St. Louis Blues defeated the Toronto Maple Leafs 6-4 Wednesday night to extend their NHL undefeated streak to seven games. 
Patrice Tardif. Adam Creighton, Denis Chasse and Greg Gilbert also scored for the Blues (21-10-3), who are on a 6-0-1 tear. 
Dave Andreychuk, Mike Hidley, Todd Gill and Mike Gartner scored for the Leafs (15-14-7). who were weak­ened by the absence of injured defensemen Dave Ellett. Dmitri Mironov and Jamie Maeoun. 
The Blues, who had a goal disallowed in the fifth minute because the net was off its moorings, went up 1-0 when Tardif poked a rebound past Felix Potvin at 10:08. 
Hull made it 2-0 at 11:45. 
.--------------------------. 
Student Savings : Even ''Ben'' Would Be Proud Of! 
Mail Boxes Etc. Martin's Ironwood Plaza 9a.m.-7p.m. Mon.-Fri. 
<· 10a.m.-6p.m. Sat. (219) 277-MAIL
L-------~--------~---------­
Save Four : Pennies I Per Copy Make your copies I for only 6 cents 1 each -with this 
1 
coupon. A I regular 10 cent I value. I otr-I/'O'Od ..-u J..-u. 1-. I MaU Bo:r.e• Etc. I 
181:15 S.R. 23. So &n.d _j_ 
Gilbert had the puck to the right of Potvin and the Maple Leafs' goalie moved out to cut an angle. Gilbert saw Hull in the clear in the slot and, in­stead of shooting, passed the puck. Hull couldn't miss the six-foot-wide target. 
Andreychuk got his 17th, on a power play, at 14:11 when he beat kneeling Blues goalie Curtis Joseph from close range with a wrist shot under the cross bar. 
Chasse made it 3-1 from the right-wing circle at 18:11. He was ejected for eheeking Matt Martin into the boards from behind with three seconds left in the second period. 
Any chance of a late Toronto rally was snuffed out when the Maple Leafs' Warren Rychel attacked Murray Baron with about five minutes left. Baron got a cross-checking penalty and Rychel a fighting major and game misconduct. 
Save  TuJenty  :  Save Two Hundred  
Pennies  I  Pennies  
Per Page Your resume typset  I I  Per Application Graduate School and  
and printed, with 25  I  job applications sent  
copies for only $20 ­with this coupon. A regular $25 value.  I I  guaranteed overnight for two dollars offthe regular  
I  price ­ with this coupon.  
orr..-JIOod ...wu J­1s. 1-. MaU Boxe. Etc.  I I  o,_,.-,_til J ...... zs. z996. MaU Bo::cet~ Etc.  

18115 S.R. 23. So. Bend .J.. _ _!_822,5 S.R. 23, So. &nd_ _j 
• Nil WOMEN~S TENNIS 
Irish triumph over Badgers 
By TIM SHERMAN 
Associate Sports Editor 
Nineteen matches in two months can have an effect on you, especially when all but a few have been against nation­ally ranked teams. The en­thusiasm with which you start­ed the season with has dis­sipated, the legs feel a bit heavy, the serves may not be as crisp. The solution for the 25th-ranked Notre Dame wom­en's tennis team: make it short and sweet and move on to the next match. 
In yesterday's match against Wisconsin in Madison, the 10-8 Irish cruised to a five singles wins, thus making the three doubles matches meaningless. With two more matches this week, including another road contest today at Northwestern, the cancellation of the doubles matches couldn't have come at a better time for coach Jay Louderback's squad. 
In order to avoid the doubles play, the Irish needed to win the last four singles matches. Dropping the first set in three of the four, this looked like a substantial task. That didn't bother Holyn Lord, Laura Schwab, and Molly Gavin. 
All three came back from the first set deficit to earn victories. Schwab's was most notable, as the senior captain needed a 
! 
third set tie-breaker to earn the point. Gavin, likewise, needed a tie-breaker, hers in the sec­ond set, to emerge victorious. 
The sole disappointment for the Irish was Wendy Crabtree's second straight loss to Badger Lauren Gavaris. Crabtree will look to bounce back today at 3;00, as the Irish challenge the Wildcats of NU in Evanston. 

The Observer/ Eric Ruelhling Laura Schwab's thrilling, three-set victory was instrumental in Notre Dame's 5-1 victory at Wisconsin yesterday. 
FUNK-JAZZ 
-<IIIIC( c fEATURING CHICAGO'S ~TEEL WAREHOUSE RECORDING ARTIST 
[}fJ.I(ff!.!.i!"/l(fJ.I( 
SPECIAL GUEST: FROM BILLY IDOL'S BAND 
Tal Bergman 
~1\iH li ~o 11 Gv~ LL~ ,-13'-li­
-,-In••·::-:lL1); ,\pt·il C)Lil q:t)() p•n 
FLIP SIDE PRESENTS: 
Country Western Line Dancing! 
Back by popular demand! 
This FRIDAY, APRIL 7! 
Bus leaves from library circle at 6 p.m. Be sure to eat dinner before coming! 
Cost will be $5for students, $3for Flip Side members! 
Ifinterested, call Mary at 4-4904 orJohn at 4-1410. 
SUMMER CLASSES! 
REDBUD 
Fine Art Workshops 2 week-3 credit courses 
$600 (includes tuition & rm/brd) 
ACTING CERAMICS PAPERMAKING MUSIC SCULPTURE 
MAY 22-JUNE 3, 1995 Sponsored by Department ofArt Saint Mary's College 
For more information or application call: 284-4655 or 284-4631 
-
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, April 6, 1995 
•NBA 
Chicago wins fifth straight 
Associated Press 
Michael Jordan, shaking off a 2-of-13 first half, scored 30 of his 3 7 points after halftime Wednesday night to lead the Chicago Bulls to their fifth straight win, 108-101 over the New Jersey Nets. 
The loss was the fifth in a row and ninth in 10 games for the Nets, who played Chicago tough despite being without injured starters Derrick Coleman and Chris Morris. 
New Jersey actually had sev­eral chances to tie the game in the final five minutes, but it couldn't make the big shots or stop Jordan. 
Jordan scored 30 of the Bulls' 
54 second-half points, 15 of 
their 23 points in the final 
quarter and seven of their final 
nine. He finished 13-of-31 from 
the field and added 11 re­
bounds. The 37 points were his 
second highest total since com­
ing out of retirement eight 
games ago. The Bulls are 6-2 
with him in the lineup. 
Armon Gilliam led New Jersey with 27 points and 16 rebounds, while Kenny Anderson had 21 points and 15 assists. 
B.J. Armstrong added 16 points for Chicago, and Scottie Pippen had 15 before fouling out late in the fourth quarter. 
The key for Chicago might have been staying close in the opening half when New Jersey shot 60 percent from the field and Jordan struggled. Still, the Nets only led 56-54. 
Chicago took the lead for good with an 8-0 spurt that Toni Kukoc capped with a floater in the lane for a 73-67 lead. 
Hawks 96, Cavaliers 87 
Andrew Lang, Steve Smith and Grant Long each scored 18 points to lead the Atlanta Hawks to a 96-87 victory over the struggling Cleveland Cavaliers on Wednesday night. 
The Hawks ended a two­game losing streak and moved 
1994·95 MAIN STAGE 5 E A 5 0 N 
NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE PRESENTS
OUR 
COUNTRY'S 
"TiMBERLAKE WERTENBAKER
GOOD BY 
DIRECTED BY REGINALD BAIN 

W A S H N G T 0 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 5 .... 8 P.M. 
THURSDAY, APRIL 6  .  ...  8  P.M.  
fRIDAY,  APRIL 7..  ...  8  P.M.  
SATURDAY, APRIL 8  ...  .  8  P.M.  

SUNDAY, APRIL 9 ... 2:30P.M. 
RESERVED SEATS $7 
STUDENT AND SENIOR CITIZEN DISCOUNTS ARE AVAILABLE WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY AND SUNDAY. llCKETS ARE AVAILABLE AT THE DOOR OR IN ADVANCE AT THE LAFoRTUNE STUDEKT CEKTER 11CKET 
OffiCE. 
MASTERCARD AND VISA ORDERS CALL 631·8128 
N H A L L 
VIEWERS MAY FIND SOME OF THE LANGUAGE IN THIS PLAY OFFENSIVE. 
i}.I1~v3ilEVVl0" 
We may not have Frats, but we still throw kickin• parties 
Stop by the Student Gove entot'fice tomgh.t between 6:00.and 8:00:Cor tree :rood with J.P. and De · -andgetinvolved. 
*There will be a TV in the office if you really can't miss "Mad about You" 
within three games of the third­place Cavaliers, who dropped one game behind Chicago in the Central Division into sixth place in the Eastern Conference. 
Cleveland also lost its fifth straight on the road and fell to the Hawks for the first time in three meetings this season. 
Three other Hawks also scored double figures, with Augmon adding 14, Ehlo scor­ing 12 and Blaylock with 11. Blaylock added five assists and five steals. 
John Williams led the Cavaliers with 14 points, Bobby Ph ills 12. Chris Mills 11, and Mark Price added 11 points and eight assists. 
Stacey Augmon scored five points during the run, and Mookie Blaylock and Craig Ehlo each had four. 

Book Now 
For Summer! 
London 
$199 Paris $335 Frankfurt $319 Madrid $319 
Baseball 
continued from page 20 
Mainieri. "He was throwing strikes, changing speeds and keeping the opposing batters off-balance. He was just out­standing." 
Another highlight for Notre Dame was the return of center fielder Rowan Richards to the starting lineup. Richards suf­fered a separated shoulder March 15 while playing against Texas-Pan American. The junior was leading the team in batting average when he went on the shelf, and had been lim­ited to pinch-running and late­inning defensive replacement duties ever since. 
''I'm feeling really good; I think my shoulder is perfectly healed," Richards said. "It feels so good to be back and I've healed so well that the cold weather wasn't even a factor for me today." 
Today Notre Dame travels to Bowling Green for a return date with the squad that spoiled the Irish home opener with a 5-4 win. 
"It will definitely be a tough game, " Mainieri says of the match up. "They swept their series with Miami of Ohio this weekend, so we know they're playing well. We are going to have to play as well as we can." 
Sophomore Darin Schmalz will get the start for Notre Dame. Schmalz got the loss in the last meeting with Bowling Green, bringing his record to 3­3. 
1m1 
(?MPUS 
MINISTRY 
MARRIAGE ENRICHMENT DAY 
SATURDAY APRIL 29; 9:30-4:00 P.M. FATIMA RETREAT HOUSE NOTRE DAME 
For: Married Couples of the Notre Dame Community Facilitators: Andrew and Terri Lyke of the Chicago Archdiocese Format: Presentations, group sharing, quiet couple time ... Topics: Communication, Conflict Resolution, Sexuality, Children ..... 
LUNCH PROVIDED 
(No fee required, but you must call John or Sylvia Dillon at the 
Office of Campus Ministry by April 7 if you wish to attend; 
631-5242) 
r~Lt\~~ 
\.711\ f!r,y 
~~!~!!rtoX~!!!g
Co-Chairman, Atlanta Committee for the Olympic Games 

Diversity the Key 
Haw Atlanta Won the Olympics 
Thursday, April 6t\ 8:00 p.m. 
Stepan Center 
Admission is free. Tickets are available at the LaFortune Box Office and at the door. Sponsored by the Office ofStudent Affairs and the Office of Student Activities. 
This lecture was made possible through a grant from the Lilly Foundation. 
Bookstore 
continued from page 20 
three months in preparation for the upcoming games. 
"It'll probably be fun, and at least an interesting experience, as long as they're nice about it," said senior Sean McHugh, whose Tucan & the Patman squad faces the unenviable task of derailing No. 1 seed Models INC. "We just don't want to be embarrassed in front of a large crowd." 
.Most teams that drew seeded squads in the first round will consider scoring a couple of baskets a success. Some might even consider themselves fortu­nate if they are not dunked on more than twelve times. 
In fact, against a competitive seeded squad, even blood rela­tions oiTer little hope of receiv­ing mercy. Sophomore Maggie Long, continuing a family tradi­tion with All the Presidents Women, knows this best. She drew Monk Malloy's All the President's Men in the first round. Monk, incidentally, is her uncle. 
"We asked the commissioners if we could play his team," ex­plained Long. "I told him that we need him to pass the ball to us, but he told us he was out for blood." 
Some people remain undaunted at the prospect of playing a seed. Paramount among them is sophomore Mike Rieder, who playing alone as, yes, The Lone Ranger, has no fear of reigning champ NBT2, his first round opponent. 
''I'm guaranteeing victory, because I won't miss a shot," stated a confident Rieder, who will enlist the aid only of an inbounder, and plans to play in full hockey gear, complete with stick. "I won't play unless all five of them show up, because I 
want  to  give  them  a  fair  
chance."  
While  such  bravado  is  

admirable for its naivete, most teams up against seeds realize that they face a quick exit. 

Friday, April 7th at Midnight Doors open at 11 p.m. 
ELCO PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 410 S. Main St., Elkhart Tickets s4.50 
Available at: 
Method Music, Tracks, ELCO Box Office, Lots Of Sound Advice, Mind Reader's andlhe Griffon Bookstore 
Na01es 
continued from page 20 
Reggie's Crackpipe and 5 Guys Who Will Make You Sweat More Than Michael Jackson In Toys R' Us. 
Some names keep popping up in conversations, but the "let me look again, I missed It the frrst time" awards: Don't Wave Your Dick Addis, Dicken's Cider Again, The Richard Craniums, We'll Work You Down Low Bang Ya' Inside Shoot on You From Anywhere and Make You Wish We Never Came, Morning Wood & The Lumberjacks, 5 Basketball Virgins Who Would Rather Be.... , and No Balls but We Could Handle Them. 
There is Super Bowl XXIX, Bookstore XXIV and Bud Bowl 
V. This tournament needs "all­Roman Numeral" awards: Helmet Nightmares II, Flab Five II, Development Dawgs VII, Team X, We're Not Getting Balder We're Just Getting More Head II, Tightie-Whities IV: The Final Thrust, Cap'n Ahab And The Shooting Sea Men IV: Our Last Shot, Dick Dover Byrosenthal IV and Rudy's Lovechildren II. 
I took 3 semesters of Spanish, but I still have the "check your Spanish dictionary" awards­Quienes Tu Papa?, Los Cincos Amigos Furiosos, and Las Vergas En Fuego. 
Notre Dame students enjoy certain beverages, so there are "beer money" awards: Make A Shot Do A Shot, Quetilla White Lightening, 151, Moe's Tavern, We Should Have Spent This $13 On Beer, Goin To Moe's and Comin Home Loaded, Oranjeboom, and 5-Pack. 
All the recent letters in this paper has prompted the "yes, I read the Observer" awards: Gland Smackless, Keep Your Pink Triangles Out of Our House, Five Guys 2 Straight for Gland Smack and We May Be Happy but Sure Ain't Gay. 
Sports are an integral part of the Notre Dame experience and most students participate, but the "oops, wrong sport" awards: Hockey Players on Asphalt, NFC II, Air McNair and Co., America's Cup, Replacement Players and The Thirty-Niners. 
Competition brings out the best in people, so the "anything you can do, I can do better" awards: All The President's Men and All The President's 
~~asyli,~tGn 
Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets 6t Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
Clocktower Square 
~~~~ho ie~~~~h4 6637 (219)277-1291 
Women, Team 69 and Six-D Nine Boyz and Bye, and B'Bye. 
We all use the telephone as a means of communication and the "talk to you later" awards are: MCI AT&T & 3 Other Guys Who Like Lay Cable. 
It is difficult to think of ideas, and I realize that people steal slogans, so the "we thought of it first" awards probably seem familiar. It's Not How You Rank It's How You Play, Young Guns, The Lone Ranger, Morris Inn, Carpe Swinum, Different Strokes, and Swoosh. 
The "don't worry, we are here for you" awards: The Bus Drivers: We Take Everyone To School, Vito's Barber Shop, The Bus Drivers III, The Official Carrol Hall Female Sensitivity Team, Four Altar Boys & One Virgin, The Four Miracles and A Set, and Mike Miller's Bouncers. 
The "hope I don't play you in the first round" awards: 5'7" And Damn Intimidating, 5 Ft. Nothing A Hundred and Nothin and Our 200+ Nothin, Jordan Would've Played With Us but the Bulls Got llim 1st, Plutonic Hickies III: This Year We Really Suck, 5 Guys Who Still Share a Thighmaster, The Linebacker Bouncers & 3 Other Guys Who Need to Get a Life, Our Center Drank Urine, and 5 Guys That Lick Chicken Gravy out of Sidewalk Crevices. 
Finally, it is time for me to anoint my top names, so the "second-best name" award goes to The Team Formerly Known As Prince. 
Now, for the climax, the "first place" award: DuLac: Honor, Get Honor, Stay Honor-The ..­Climax. 
Campus View Apartments SUMMER LEASES 
6 weeks to 3 months 
Furnished Apartments, All Utilities Covered, Central Air 
For more information Call272-1441 
pagel8 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday April6, 1995 
• SOFTBAll 

Coach Liz Miller's softball squad hopes to continue their winning streak Saturday in a doubleheader with the Michigan State Spartans 
Irish seeing double again 
BY NEIL ZENDER 
Sports Writer 
In a commercial for Canon, Andre Agassi says that "Image is everything." If Notre Dame coach Liz Miller were pitching cameras and flashbulbs, she'd proba­bly say, "atti­tude is every­thing," when it comes to today's 2 

'----:o":---"-----' 
p.m. double­header against Michigan State. 
"We've just been really work­ing on our mental preparation to go into a game loose and ag­gressive," Miller said. "We're working to acquire more tenac­ity. If we approached every team with that determination, no one would beat us." 
No one did this weekend, as the Irish won four straight in doubleheaders against Wright State and Butler, improving their overall record to 20-8, and opening 4-0 in the MCC. 
The 15-13 Spartans, how­ever, will give No. 21 Notre Dame a run for their money. They have a knack for giving the Irish tough games. The Spartans are led by Patti Raduenz's .420 batting average and 16 RBis. 
Notre Dame will probably have a tougher time with Michigan State's two ace hurlers, Erin Zimmerman (5-2, 
2.20 ERA) and Stefanie Noffsinger (6-8, 2.87 ERA). 
Miller is looking for some of­fensive improvement, hoping that Elizabeth Perkins, Jenna Knudson and Jennifer Giampaolo can step it up a notch. 
The Irish hitting attack is al­ready doing quite well. Sophomore Katie Marten is an offensive spark plug batting .344. 
Catcher Sara Hayes has belt­ed five homers, and leads the club with 20 RBis. 
Meghan Murray has a .296 average and 12 RBis. She also has a knack for scoring the winning run. In Notre Dame's four victories last weekend, Murray scored three of the win­ning runs. But she humbly credits her run-scoring prowess to her teammates. 
"My bat was pretty good to me, but I have to give a lot of the credit to my teammates. They hit me in. We got a lot of clutch hits this weekend. I just happened to be the runner that was on base." 
On the mound, the Irish have been brilliant, with a team ERA. of 1.44. Terri Kobata (10­1, 0.56 ERA) and Joy Battersby (8-4, 2.05) form a potent one­two punch. Kelly Nichols (5 saves, 1.67) is ready in the bullpen. 
"It makes the defense feel great," Murray said of the pitching staff. "You know they're doing great and that puts pressure on the defense to step up to that level. It gives you a real mental edge." 
The mental edge. Attitude is everything. 

BRUNO~S 
N 0 R T H 
On US 31 North of Cleveland 273-3890 
Sll 7J ~©Lrmrn @JLA'1fiillrn 
\90a 

Saturday, April 8 Moose Krause Stadium 2 p.m. 
FREE ADMISSION 
Complimentary Hot Dogs for the first 300 students at the game 
sponsored by the Alumni Association 
DONT MISS OUT ON ALL THE ACTION­ONLY TWO HOME GAMES REMAIN! 
9seventh-inning stretch. &-INCH TUNA SUB ~~F$1.99  SOFTBALL SOFTBALL SOFTBALL SOFTBALL LL THIS SAT. & SUN,1:00 p.m. Doubleheader;  

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
MIKE PETERS CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 


CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 

~--· 

Governor Casey speaks . Casey, former Democratic and a possible Presidential . at 101 DeBartolo at 8:00 p.m . .· ' .. will be remaining pro· life in the last a little over an hour, Col­the Great Hall in the Hesburgh 
•··-,~~~,.ntEt't.ft)t ll~.teJ~natiotud Studies. 
South 
Southern-Fried 
Chicken Chicken Acropolis Potatoes Au Gratin 
Have 
something to say? 
Use The Observer classifieds 
..... 

SPORTS 
page 20 Thursday, April6,1995 

'Road to Stepail' to begin on Sunday 

Lights out again for Irish at Eck Stadium 
By MEGAN McGRATH Ornstein delivered a blast to left for his ~~~ Spons Writer first collegiate home run. "It was a really great feeling," 
Maybe some unknown force at the Ornstein said of the shot. "I wasn't sure power plant decided it was just too darn it was out so I kept running fast to first cQld to continue playing baseball yester­base. Now I kind of wish I had watched day afternoon. it more and enjoyed the moment." 
Maybe the powers-that-be in the Notre Scott Sollmann led off the next inning Dame Athletic Department forgot to pay with his second bunt single of the day the electric bill for Frank Eck Stadium. and hot-hitting junior Mike Amrhein de­
Whatever the reason, for the second livered an RBI double to put Notre Dame consecutive Wednesday the power went up 3-0. out at the Eck. Unfortunately, due to In the fifth, Craig DeSensi reached on the 5 p.m. start, not enough daylight re­a single and advanced to third on mained to continue when the yard went Sollmann's double. Amrhein followed dark in the top the seventh inning. with a sacrifice fly to score DeSensi. 
Play was suspended with the Notre "It was great to see Gus with the big Dame leading Chicago State 4-1 with spark and get his first homer," Mainieri one out in the Cougars' half of the said. "But I think some guys really hit inning. If the schools can find an agree­the ball a ton. We could have had three able date by Friday, the remaining two or four more runs but Chicago State and two-thirds innings will be complet­made some nice catches to keep them ed. If not. the game will stand as an close." Irish win. Starter Gregg Henebry went the dis­
Of the game that was played, the high­tance, so to speak, surrendering six hits lights all belonged to Notre Dame. and one run on a wild pitch. The Observer/ Scott Mendenhall Freshman designated hitter Gus "Gregg was masterful again," said 
Outfielder Scott Sollmann had two bunt singles to help Notre Dame to a 4-1 lead against Ornstein got the Irish started in the sec­Chicago State before the game was suspended due to a power outage. 
ond. After a single by J. J. Brock, see BASEBALL I page 16 

Opponents of top seeds face daunting task 
By TIM SEYMOUR ~ociate Spons Editor 
Junior Chris Lee's Dr. Sugardaddy bookstore team had high aspirations this year. With a good draw, they figured they could win three or four games, maybe play competi­tively with a seed. 
In anticipation for the tourna­ment, they made the trek all the way from Carroll Hall to Stepan to get in some practice. They even had Dr. Sugardaddy uniforms printed up. This was a serious squad. 
Then came Black Monday, the day when the schedule an­nounced their first round matchup with perennial law school power Malicious Prosecution, the No. 10 seed. 
In all probability, tournament over. 
"We had high hopes for Dr. Sugardaddy this year," pro­nounced a despondent Lee. "We wanted to play a team named 5 guys under 5'5" or something like that." 
"Now we're trying to over­come the obstacle of getting psyched out before even play­ing, but their past is pretty overwhelming," he concluded. 
For 32 teams up against the seeded teams in the first round, the experience of Bookstore Basketball XXIV is likely to be 
I Brad Fish (with ball) of NBT2, and Kenny Middleton of Models INC. will lead top seeds into action as Bookstore Basketball XXIV kicks off this weekend. Most top seeds look to cruise through the first round. 
short and relatively painless. 
Certainly there might be sur­prises, as in last year's event when two seeds fell before the first week's action came to a close. However, the majority of these teams will serve as the proverbial cannon fodder for those super-charged squads who have been honing their games at the Rock for the past 

see BOOKSTORE I page 17 
• Joe~< SrmP 
What:S in a name: the best and the worst of this year's crop 
Bookstore Basketball pro­vides an opportunity for Notre Dame students and staff to strut their stuff on the basket­
ball courts around cam­pus. Many players par­ticipate to have fun with friends, while others scout 

their oppo-Dominic nents on the Amorosa way to the SportsWriter 
Final Four. No matter what their motives for playing, each team needs to submit a name to the Bookstore Committee. Now that the schedules have been distrib­uted and the censors have com­pleted their jobs, it is time to critique this year's edition of the Bookstore team names. 
The most talked about story in the news for the past ten months has filled Bookstore with twelve teams. O.J. Simpson's legacy lives on in South Bend. The "O.J." awards: Michael Jordan, OJ Simpson and 3 Other Guys With Great Slashing Moves, O.J You're Free to Go Really? No, Not Really, and Judge Ito and His Stiff Wood Gavel. 
If I were hungry, I have the "food and drink" awards: Team Burger King, Team Red Dog, Team Snapple.... Filled With The Best Stuff On Earth, Licorice Sticks, Little Apple Snacks II, Fig Newtons, Green Eggs And Ham, AJberts-World's Best Hungarian Goulash, and Cherry Filled Pez. 
Some students take games a little too seriously, and for them there are the "we're not bitter" awards: There Was Absolutely Nothing Wrong With Our First Name, We May Not Be Good But It Doesn't Take a Big Man to Pull The Trigger, We Hate Movement, A McDonald's All-American a Gentle Giant and 3 Bitter Bitter Men and 'Naugh Guys in Exile. 
Not everyone plays Bookstore to make the final four, the "we don't want to win" awards: The 11th Commandment: Thou Shall Not Win, Play: We Can't Du it But We Get It, Easy First Round Opponent, Not In it To Win It, A Sorry Sight, and All We Want Is One Basket. 
Notre Dame people talk a lot trash, but the "we're tasteless" awards go to those who wen to far with it: 5 Guys Who Couldn't Even Beat Nicole Brown Simpson, Reggie Lewis Hank Gathers & 3 Other Guys Who Will Play Their Hearts Out, We'll Smoke You Like 
see NAMES I page 17 
Sunday, April 9 NO Baseball at Bowling Green 5p.m. 
Friday, April 7 Saturday, April 8 
Thursday, April 6 
NO Softball vs. Loyola 1 p.m. NO Women's Tennis at 
NO Baseball vs. Wisconsin­NO Softball vs. Wisconsin-Green 
Milwaukee 5p.m. (thru Sunday) Bay lp.m. Northwestern 3p.m. 
NO Women's Tennis vs. Drake SMC Tennis vs. Hope College 3p.m. 
NO Track at The Dogwood SMC Track at Little State Meet ar 
2p.m. SMC Softball at Olivet College lp.m. 
Invitational (thru Saturday) lUPU-1 


