
Friday, February 10, 1995 • Vol. XXVI No. 84! THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• fACUlTY SENATE
GLND/SMC hold open meeting 
Over 100 fill LaFortune 
in support 
By DAVE TYLER News Editor 
Less than three weeks after being barred from meeting in the University Counseling Cen­tllr, Gays and Lesbian of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College (GLND/SMC) held its first public meeting last night in LaFortune Student Center. 
The meeting, which was open to the public, was at­tended by over 100 people, and was allowed to run its 45 minute course without interruption. 
According to GLND/SMC co­chair John Blanford the meet­ing was intended to "re-assert the importance of our presence and enable the rest of the com­munity to come out and show the support that is out there." 
Members discussed concerns resulting from the January 23 announcement of the Universi­ty's decision, and stressed the need for a plaee for gays and lesbians to meet on campus. 
"We need to have a safe spaee to hold our coming out support groups," Anthony Silva, GLND/SMC's chair for support 

Kaesebier appointed by Board 
Spedal to the Observer 
Carol Colby Kaesebier has been appointed vice president and general counsel of the University of Notre Dame, cffcetive immediately. Kacsebier's appointment by the Board of Trustees was announeed by the University's president, Hev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. 
"In a field of exceptional candidates for this position, Carol Kaesebier emerging both for her overall talents as a lawyer and for her outstanding performance in the counsel's office over the past six and a half years," Father Malloy said in announcing the appoint­ment. 
Kaesebier has served as the University's associate vice president and counsel since July 1992. She entered the counsel's office as assistant general counsel in June 1988 and was promoted to associate general counsel in July 1991. She now will assume ehief responsibility for all University litigation and legal matters, including those related to human resources and employ-
see KAESEBIER I page 4 
Run-Off Election Today! Don't forget to vote. 


and outreach, said. Silva said out the names and phone num­that coming out can be a bers of GLND/SMC co-chairs "scary" proeess, and that he Blandford and Kelly Smith, and would like to see a space where the organization's Notre Dame gays and lesbians could come post office box number. out without having to be afraid. "Notre Dame is trailing the 
Silva noted that the Counsel­nation in this issue," said Blan­ing Center's Counsel Line phone serviee was still giving see MEETING/ page 4 
Former Provost speaks to Senate about dismisal 
By DEBORAH SCHULTZ News Writer 
Openness and candor are im­portant elements in any organi­zation, and Father Oliver Williams feels that these princi­ples were violated when he was asked to leave the provost's offiee last year. 
Williams. a former associate provost spoke to the Faeulty Senate last night at their monthly meeting. 
He was appointed to the position of Associate Provost in the spring of 1987 and released in June 1994. The original contract Williams had with Father Edward Malloy, univer­sity president, and Dr. Timothy O'Meara, Provost, stipulated that he would receive a one year notiee before his job would be terminated. But when this occurred, Williams was only given two weeks no­tice. 
Williams was replaced by Fa­ther Timothy Scully, who was named associate provost as well as a viee-president of the university. 
Among the organizations Williams was involved in while serving as associate provost were the Provost Advisory Committee and the Board of Trustees. 
Williams' speech to the Sen­ate focused on four traits he believes necessary for anyone in a management position. 
"The four most important things are openness, proactive behavior, integrity and clarity." When these are not present, things go wrong, Williams said. 

"I have no regrets," said Williams, "I just think that the principle of openness was vio­lated and for no good reasons." Williams received his two weeks notice one day before he left for South America for a two week stay. 
Despite present circum­stances, Williams maintains a good attitude about his work for the university and even en­courages others to seek posi­tions, but he feels a need to talk about what happened. 
"I am happy to come here. I believe I am ethically bound to discuss my seven years in the provost's office," said Williams. 

Several senators questioned Williams about the circum­stances surrounding his depar­
see SENATE/ page 8 

John MacLeod has more than one reason to hope long distance marksmen are on target 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST Assistant News Editor 
When Ryan Hoover and Lamarr Justiee knock down their three-point shots against Kentucky this Sunday, they'll be doing more than just help­ing the Irish battle the Wild eats. 
They'll also be helping the battle against cancer. 

Throughout the basketball season, whenever an Irish player sinks a trey, supporters of Coach John MaeLeod's Three-Point Attack: Coaches versus Cancer are donating money to the American Cancer Society. 
It's all a part of an effort by the National Association of Basketball Coaehes to combine the influence of big-time bas­ketball coaches with the need to support the fight against caneer. 
"It's a great program," MacLeod said. "If there is something that we -the coaches -can do, then the better it will be for cancer re­search." 
Over 110 schools nationwide are involved in the two-year­old program, including such college basketball powerhous­es as Arkansas, Missouri, Louisville, Kentueky and Duke. Notre Dame is in its first year in the program. 


MacLeod and the South Bend ehapter of the ACS agreed to join the effort last fall after MacLeod met Norm Stewart, coaeh of the University of Mis­souri, at a coaches summit in Houston. 
Stewart, who has survived a bout with colon eancer, was in­strumental in getting the Three-Point Attack off the ground. 
"When I spoke with Norm, he said it was a worthy cause," MaeLeod, whose mother also had colon cancer, said, "and that it was very beneficial." 

And indeed it is. The dona­tions benefit research projects, support education programs, and fund services -such as chemotherapy treatment -for eancer patients. 
The Three-Point Attack was inspired by the death of Jim Valvano, a former head coach of North Carolina State, who fought cancer before suecumb­ing in early 1993. Valvano, who was very popular among his fellow NABC members. re­mained upbeat throughout the illness. 
"He fought a battle -a valiant battle," MacLeod said. "After his death, the Three­Point Attack became a way for us to use the basketball forum to tell people what's needed [to 
see MACLEOD I page 8 


page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, February I 0, 1995 
• INSIDE COLUMN 




Don't Worry, You're not alone 
It's February. The nov­elty of snow has worn off. It is the month of sickness and let's not forget-the month of love. Yes, Valentine's Day is looming. 
"Looming" is the key word here. Valentine's Day has traditionally been one holiday that I've never quite gotten the hang of. I can han­dle Christmas, Halloween and even Groundhog's day, but Valentine's Day is just a sore subject. 
The idea that "love " should be professed on one particular day has never appealed to me. Some may think that I am bitter, but in reali­ty, I just think that it is a stupid holiday. Well, maybe I am a little bit bitter. 
Who invented Valentine's Day anyway? Obviously it was someone who was not with­out a significant other, or perhaps it is all just a cruel ploy that greeting card companies invented to bring in the bucks between Christmas and Easter. Well whoever he was, he certainly wasn't a Saint. 
Here are just a few of my gripes and prob­lems with February 14th: 
I haven't technically been "going with" any­one on Valentine's day since the seventh grade. I've been dumped a few weeks before the significant day and I've started dating guys a few weeks after, but I've yet to have an official boyfriend on the day of love. 
Although I haven't had an official Valen­tine's Day boyfriend in awhile, there have been times when I'm just not sure where to draw the line. Who exactly do you give Valentines to? 
Do you give one to someone that you've gone on a date with recently? Someone that you've been "talking" to? Someone that you have a crush on? There's always that gray area involving the giving of valentines. 
I've longed for the courage to give a special valentine to my secret crush (each year it is someone different) but I have yet to get up the guts. The Hallmark commercials make it look so easy, but I just know that I'll end up in one of those Kleenex ads instead. 
After finally deciding who is worthy of a valentine, it becomes a question of who is deserving of a present and what should its value be? How do you decide between cards, candy and larger more expensive gifts like sweaters and silk boxers? I've never really had to deal with the sweater/silk boxer dilem­ma but I am still not quite sure if I should give the guy that I'm not officially dating a valen­tine. Is a card enough, or should I give him the heart-shaped box of candy as well? What if I get him something and he doesn't get me anything, or vice versa-the potential for dis­aster is great. 
Well the highlight of my Valentine's day these past few years has been the great care package from my family. Maybe that explains my poor attitude. It's not that I don't appreci­ate the homemade card, chocolates and con­versation hearts from my mom and dad, it's just that a "real" valentine would be a nice change. 
I"ll end now because this column is proving to be just as traumatic as walking down a hall full of roses knowing that none of them are for me. But don't worry, Saint Patrick's Day is just around the corner. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer . 

• TOilAY'S STAFF 
News Production Kristi Kolski David Diaz Amy Schmidt Michelle Marcotte 
Sports Accent Tim Sherman Krista Nannery Andy Cabiness Jake Peters 
Lab Tech Graphics Michael Hungeling Roberr Bollman 

• Wom.JJ 111 A GuNce Trans-Atlantic swimmer paddles home to mixed reviews 
BARBADOS 

French swimmer completes transatlantic journey
They laughed at Guy Delage when he set off to 
The solo, 2,400-mlle journey took nearly two months to complete.swim the Atlantic, his life riding on a high-tech kick­board and a supply raft bearing a fax machine and foie gras for New Year's Eve. 
Delage, 42, from Nantes in western France, was all elan when he set out Dec. 16 from the Cape Verde Islands, off the west coast of Africa. He said he was eager to experience "absolute solitude" and "a real risk of dying." He vowed: "Better to die in the jaws of a shark than in bed." 
It was a considerably chastened Delage who came ashore Thursday in his gray and black wetsuit. Delage said his adventure brought him depression, fatigue, loneliness and danger. The sea paid him a fmal indignity by slamming him on a reef. 
The French newspaper Le Monde commented in December that the venture puts Delage in "that book of records -in between the world accordion cham­pion and the person who can eat the most snails." 
Despite the lack of verification on his journey, the sheer human adventure of crossing the Atlantic alone captured the imagination of well-wishers here. 
"At first Frenchmen thought he was crazy, but now we respect his inner strength," tourist Pierre Gobin said as he and about 1,000 others watched Delage swim ashore. 
Source: SECTOR Sport Watches APfTerry Kole 


Costner's new casino idea criticized 
SIOUX FALLS 

Kevin Costner, who played a Sioux­sympathizing soldier in the hit film "Dances With Wolves," is drawing fire from tribal leaders with a new project, a $100 million resort casino. Costner and his brother, Dan, already own one of the 86 casinos that have sprung up in Deadwood since 1988,. The new resort, scheduled to open in 1997, 


would dwarf the other casinos and compete with those operated on reservations by South Dakota's nine tribes. "It's the old theory of the rich get richer and the poor get poorer," said Mike Jandreau, chairman of the Lower Brule Sioux Tribe in central South Dakota. "The casinos for us are the opportunity to extract some revenue that we cannot get in any other fashion.' CEfforts to reach Costner for comment Thursday through his talent agency in Los Angeles were unsuccess­ful. 
Bangkok bans elephants from streets 
BANGKOK, Thailand 

Elephants, once featured proudly on the national flag, are no longer welcome in the crowded streets of Bangkok. Idle elephants brought in from the countryside are rented to people who walk under their stomachs ­considered to bring good luck -or use them to carry signs advertising ivory-carving businesses. But city life is hard on elephants because of the heat and pollution, said conservationist Pisit na Patalung. a board member of the new Thai Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. The elephants must sometimes eat garbage and dirty water, and have nowhere to take their customary cooling-off showers, Pisit said. The city government sent an order to all 38 of Bangkok's districts this month, telling officials they must eject any big animals in their area, including elephants. Violators could be fined up to $20. 
• NtmONAL WEATHER 
The Accu-Weather~~> forecast for noon, Friday, Feb. 10. 
FRONTS: 
..........-........................ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 0 1995 Accu-Wealher, Inc. 
Leukemia attacked by researchers 
WASHINGTON 

Researchers experimenting with mice have created a cancer "smart bomb" that attacks and kills leukemia cells without harming normal cells. The technique may be tested on humans this summer. Dr. F. M. Uckun of the University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, said the "smart bomb" is actually an antibody that will attach to a recep­tor molecule found only on the surface of leukemia cells. ' Uckun, first author of a study appearing Friday in the journal Science, said the same "smart bomb" technique for the targeted delivery of a killing chemical can also be used for some cancers of the breast, ovaries and brain. He said the findings suggest a treatment that included cycles of first the drugs, then "smart bomb" could be very effect against leukemia. "There are certain sub­stances in breast cancer that you can target," he said. "If you do the targeting right, you can kill the breast cancer cells." Science, which published the study, is the journal of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. 
Lawyers can object to juror's looks 
SAN FRANCISCO 
Prospective jurors can't be rejected because of race or 

sex. But it's OK for a lawyer to remove a woman if he 
thinks she's too fat or doesn't like her clothing, a state 
appeals court says. A prosecutor's explanation that he 
removed one juror because she was "grossly overweight" 
and wore "a little tiny skirt that doesn't fit her" was 
legally adequate, the 1st District Court of Appeal ruled. 
That prosecutor, Alameda County Deputy District 
Attorney William Tingle, said he removed a second juror 
in that attempted murder case because she wore braided 
hair, which he considered "somewhat radical." He told 
the trial judge he was uncomfortable trying a serious 
case before jurors with those characteristics. The judge 
accepted the lawyer's explanation as a valid, non-racial 
reason for rejecting the juror. The appeals court upheld 
the decision last week. 

Pressuffl 
H L 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacarion periods. The Observer is a member of the Associared Press. All reproducrion righrs are reserved. 

AUanta  50  44  Dallas  54  34  New Orleans 64  60  
Bahimore  43  34  Denver  16  08  New York  38  32  
Boston  40  32  Los Angeles 69  53  Philadelphia 40  32  
Chicago  09  03  Miami  60  63  Phoenix  68  48  
Columbus  23  14  Minneapolis 02  ·8  St. Louis  23  15  

Friday, February 10, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
Co-sleeping may prevent SIDS German Labor markets 
under new pressure
By JAMIE HEISLER 
News Writer 
The solitary sleeping patterns that society has termed normal for infants may in fact be un­healthy for some infants, ac­cording to Dr. James McKenna, a professor of anthropology at Pomona College, who spoke yesterday in DeBartolo. 
In his lecture entitled "When Stone Age Babies are Born to Space-Age Parents," McKenna spoke on the "different per­spectives, evolutionary, biologi­cal, and societal, of (1arentlchild co-sleeping and SIDS (Sudden Infant Death Syndrome.)" 
Aceording to MeKenna, start­ing in the 1700s society began to look down on parent/infant eo-sleeping for various reasons, including the prevention of infanticide and sexual abuse. Since the 1950s, people have continued to look down on co­sleeping because of the belief that inevitable suffoeation, psy­chic damage, prolonged depen­dency, or lack of autonomy could result. 
It is important to consider if there are "any negative conse­quences to the cultural model we have excepted as normal," said McKenna, who has pro­posed that eo-sleeping has sig­nificant positive effects on the sleeping patterns of infants, in­eluding the reduction of SIDS. 
Tlw interaction that takes place in co-sleeping, including "parental breathing cues" and contact, cause sensory stimula­tion in the infant that results in more regular breathing, an in­crease in quiet sleep, and a re­duction of limb and trunk movements associated with un­quiet sleep. 
McKenna's conclusion is that "the kinds of sleep and interac­tions generated by co-sleeping" in fact battle SIDS. According to him, this can be explained both in terms of both evolution and biology. 
In prehistoric times, when man was beginning to walk upright, the pelvis was develop­ing to suit these adaptations. A constriction of the birth canal resulted that limited the possi­ble brain size of the fetus. 
As a result, infants were born neurologically undevel­oped with only 25 percent of their adult brain volume. 
"Co-sleeping, as a protection, becomes part of the matrix of an undeveloped baby," said McKenna. 
These undeveloped babies need the constant attention and care that solitary sleeping does. not provide. 
The importance of co-sleep­ing, biologically, is that in the womb the mother's blood flow acts as a "regulatory pace­maker" to which the fetus adapts its breathing rate. The auditory system becomes ad­justed to the mother during the period of time when she is most calm, during her sleep. 
Once the baby is born, 
through the same auditory senses, its breathing rate can also be regulated if it is in con­tact with one of its parents. 
The current beliefs that in­fants should sleep alone, that they should sleep through the night, and that they should sleep away from noise, are in­herently American, according to McKenna. 
Other societies focus on the importance of parent/child con­tact, including co-sleeping. They are "contemporary people that have retained some of the patterns of infant care that are necessary for infant health," he said. 
In many cultures, such as Japan, the people believe that a baby is born independent and must be made interdependent with the parents through meth­ods such as co-sleeping. 
Americans, on the other hand, believe that a baby is born dependent and the child must become independent as soon as possible. 
This results in a lack of the necessary factors for the infant such as "sensory stimulation, access to breast, and closeness to parent," according to McKenna. 
The benefits of co-sleeping do not necessarily prevent SIDS, and solitary sleeping does not necessarily cause SIDS. 
However, the "sensory changes" that are stimulated by co-sleeping do fight the causes ofSIDS. 
According to McKenna, it is now important to make these results more public because "culturally favored patterns of child care change much faster than does infant biology." 
• STUDENT ACADEMIC COUNCil 



SAC makes plans for the semester 
Delivery Hours 
($8 minimum order) 
4:30-10:30 p.m. 
7 Days a Week! 


271-0125 
I I  1MONTH UNLIMITED TANNING  :  
I  BED, BOOTH & SUN CAPSULE  I  
I I  ONLy $40  W/THIS COUPON  :  
Phone 272-7653 Mishawaka-Grape and McKinley 


L---------------~ 
By MELANIE LAFLIN 
News Writer 
When speaking on the "German model" and if it exists Wolfgang Streeck, professor at the University of Wisconsin, Madison was not referring to the suave Deiter from Sprock­ets but rather the constitution of Germany as a socio-econom­ic structure that entails social justice. . 
Yesterday at the Hesburgh Center, Streeck discussed the performance pattern of West Germany up to German reunification, the conditions of its pattern, and an analysis of the present crisis. 
"After four decades of a capi­talistic economy, West Ger­many was the most successful of all major economies with a GOP and world export rate that surpasses that of Japan," stat­ed Streeck. 
Class compromise in the workplace and beyond seems to have been a significant part of the internal social cohesion in West Germany. "The orga­nized and regulated capital market economy of Germany and its organized labor that su­percedes high class adaptation distinguishes it from the U.S. economy. The German market is not a market of control. Very few companies are traded in the stock market, as owner­ship is very concentrated" according to Streeck. 
What makes Germany so dif­ferent is that its work forces have legal rights, its public as­sociations create high quality standards and organize coop­erative research, and its em­ployee associations increase la­bor standards. 

"What makes Germany ha-ve such a distinct pattern of per­formance is that it's high cost in labor markets has caused Germany to increase its quality and be more competitive in international markets. Products, skills, and technology are always being upgraded," stated Streeck. 
The problem with the Ger­man unification lies with keep­ing an equilibrium, maintain­ing high economic quality and social cohesion while accomodating social pressures and international markets, according to Streeck. "Production markets must have enough space. Pro­duction leadership and re­search and development must continue to match the others. Lastly, the economic labor sup­ply must fit what the markets need, functioning in .high skilled jobs," said Streeck. 
Can this equilibrium survive? Germany has suffered the worst recession since World War II. 
According to Streeck, the secular exhaustion of main­taining the balancing act, the exacerbation of unifying Germany, and the changing conditions 'of a global economy · all attribute to the stresses of the German economy. 
"In this new global economy, German institutions are deal­ing with a new kind of pres­sure and might not be able to withstand their former eco­nomic level," said Streeck. 
By NICOLE NIELSEN 
News Writer 
At last night's meeting, the Student Academic Council dis­cussed its plans for this semes­ter. The first thing on the agen­da was the Career and Counseling Center's Liberal 


ROSES 
2495 Dozen Delivered 
Special Price limited to pre-order
also 

Valentine Flower Arrangements starting at $495! 
MATERNOWSKI'S 
272-0970~c:, 
Two Convenient Locations Close to Campus! 
South Bend -University Commons 
(across from University Park Mall) 
(located near Kmart) 
Phone 256-9656 

Arts Week, which is to take place March 27-31. 
The Counseling Center asked the SAC to provide 6 or 7 stu­dents for a panel discussion entitled, "If I had known then what I know now." Several students on the council said they would be willing to partici­pate in the discussion. 
The Student Lecture series was also discussed. The SAC would like to have one more lecture this semester, and names of possible student lee­turers were proposed. 
By request of the BOG, the Council discussed Notre Dame­Saint Mary's relations. Next, they discussed the leadership conference to take place on April 8th. Students who at­tended the conference last year volunteered to help facilitate the conference this year. 
Finally, it was proposed that all the academic departments provide files with internship application and resume infor­mation from previous students. 
"Easy As Pie" 
Home-made Baked Goods 

~a~liil~nliil<B~® IP)~.w ~IP~@a~a 
Decorated Sugar Cookies-$5.50/dz 
Free Delivery & Gift wrapped to ND/SMC students Call Barb (after 5 p.m.) 234-5845 
Come & See the New CJ's! 
·...··o.yovr~·~~·¥.,_. 
........ 't
............ 

,•••· ''''a••• 
·~··,· .................. 
::t Michael MeeUnn 

Famlly Dining now availablel 417 N 




--------"""T"'I'-...,.......-~­

page 4 
The Observer • NEWS Friday, February 10, 1995 




omedy 
fEBRUARY 12, 1995 
• 
BET's Comic View 

• 
Toured with Patti LaBelle 



Meeting 
continued from page 1 
ford. Several national Catholic 
universities have recognized 
gay and lesbian student groups, 
including St. Edward's of 
Austin, Texas; a school run by 
the Congregation of the Holy 
Cross. 
"Ask them (the administra­
tion) why they can do it in 
Austin and not in South Bend," 
said Blandford. 
Many of those in attendance looked for ways the heterosex­ual community could support the homosexual group. One way "is to not stand for homo­phobia wherever you see it," said a GLND/SMC board mem­ber. 
Blandford suggested that stu­dents talk to their rectors, classmates, and professors and encourage acceptance of gays and lesbians at Notre Dame. The possibility of organizing a heterosexual student group to support the homosexual com­munity was also discussed. 
Blanford updated the assem­bled on the resolutions that several campus bodies passed since the announcement of the University's decision. The Campus Life Council, Graduate Student Council, and the Stu­dent Senate all recently passed motions supporting GLND/SMC. Blanford also said he had been contacted by representatives of MTV network and ABC's "Nightline" who expressed in­terest in profiling the group. 
Last night's meeting took place in the common area just outside of LaFortune's "Tom Dooley Room." Dooley was a Notre Dame alumnus, as well as a naval officer and medical missionary in Southeast Asia during the late 1950's. In a 
HoPe UCan Get UP Faster On Your 22nd! 
HaPPY BD. Todd Luken 
the Honorable James T. Moody, national 
federal district judge in Ham­Trademark Association and mond, Ind., in 1982-83. president-elect of the Asso­ciation of Collegiate Licensing
Kaesebier has lectured and Administrators. written on a variety of legal is­sues, especially those affecting j8A board member of the La­colleges and universities. Porte Hospital Foundation, 
Kaesebier is a member of the Kaesebier also is a member of American, Indiana, and St. the St. Joseph Medical Center Joseph County bar associations. Women's Advisory Panel, the Associate editor of The Journal South Bend Professional Worn-of College and University Law, -en's Association and the Amer­she also is a member of the ed­ican Association of Universityucation committee of the Inter-Women. 

Washington Hall --8PM $3: ND/SMC Students $5: General Admission 
Tickets may be purchased at the LaFonune Infonnation Des.k: 631-8128. 
Michael Brooks 

Owen Smith 
-DI'OII_.,..
PII.I.DAtt FE813 1IKI5 
n ..n aenvntn M'PlCI 
.-MIIIn M' HT. UMif 

Sponsored by: Black Cultural Arts Festival, NAACP, African American Student Alliance, Student Govern­ment, and the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs. 
Sean Sarvis 
1993 book on gays and lesbians in the military, Conduct Unbe­coming, author Randy Shilts revealed that Dooley received a dishonorable discharge from the Navy in 1956 because he was a homosexual. A letter from Dooley to University Pres­ident-emeritus Theodore lies­burgh and a statue of Dooley adorn the University's Grotto. 
"When the administration says they can't endorse the homosexual lifestyle are they referring to Tom Dooley?" Blandford asked. 
"It seems especially ironic that the university's action to bar us from using campus facil­ities even keeps us locked out of the "Tom Dooley Room," said Smith. 
GLND/SMC officials were pleased with the meeting. ''I'm extremely happy seeing all these bodies and faces here supporting us," said Jesus Ure­sti, chair of GLND/SMC's social committee. 
A ·march in support of GLND/SMC was announced to take place today at 4:30 outside Debartolo Hall. 

Kaesebier 
continued from page 1 
ment policies, student rights and discipline, business negoti­ations and contracts, taxes, trademark, copyright and patent issues, immigration and risk management. 
Kaesebier succeeds Philip J. Faccenda, who retired from the position at year-end. 
Kaesebier was graduated first in her class from the Valparaiso University School of Law in 1983 after having received her bachelor of sci­ence degree with high honors from the University of Illinois at Urbana in 1971. 
She was an associate at­torney of Barnes & Thornburg, Indiana's largest law firm, from 1983-92, and an associate pro­fessor in the Valparaiso school of law from 1986-88. 
She served as clerk intern for 
Friday, February 10, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Business strategies offered SAB makes plans for 
upcoming AnTostal 
By ETHAN HAYWARD News Writer 
Successfully launching and planning a business will be the subject of this weekend's Inno­
vation '95, a day-long conference on entrepre­neurship to be held tomorrow at the CCE. 
The confer­


ence is spon­Echols sored by the Collegiate Entrepreneurs of the Midwest, the College of Business Administration, and the Entrepreneur Club and will be comprised of local business owners, executives, attorneys, consultants, and professors. 
It will deal with topics such as financing, tax strategies, planning, information sources, computer systems, incorporat­ing, and successful business operation. 
There will be twenty talks in all, with four of them given by highlighted speakers. 
Hegistration for Innovation '95 will take place from 7:45 until 8:15 a.m., with the first session beginning at 8:30. 
This first session will feature Evelyn Echols, founder of Echols International Travel and Hotel Schools Inc .. and Dane Miller, founder of Biomet Inc. 
The opening session will be followed by two Breakout Ses­sions, in which speakers will lecture on successfully starting, planning, and running a busi­ness. 
Lunch (not provided) will be­gin at noon and will feature Daniel Fitzpatrick, CEO of Qual­ity Dining Inc., as the luncheon speaker. Two more Breakout sessions will follow lunch and will end at 3:15p.m. 
The final session will start at 
3:45 and will feature Doug Germann, founder of Acquisi­tion Resources Inc. 
Each of the highlight speak­ers comes highly lauded. For instance, Echols was named by President Reagan as one of the nation's top entrepreneurs of 1986 and was appointed to the President's Advisory Committee on Women's Business Own­ership. 
Miller was named by Busi­ness Week as one of the top 1,000 executives from 1988 to 1992 and received U.S. SBA's Entrepreneurial Success Award in 1991. 

He was also named Indiana's Industrialist of the Year by Indiana Business Magazine in 1989. 
Fitzpatrick's Quality Dining Inc. owns franchises for nearly 70 restaurants and employs almost 3,500 people in six dif­ferent states. 
Germann specializes in help­ing companies acquire other firms and has co-authored "Buying a Business (For Very Little Cost)". 
Tony Popanz. a senior fmance major and the conference's chairperson, says that partici­pating in the conference could prove "invaluable" even to stu­dents not enrolled in the busi­ness school. 
According to Popanz, "It doesn't matter what course of study you pursue. If you're go­ing to be your own boss, if you have persistence and drive, if you come up with a way to ful­fill an unfilled need, that's going to make you an entrepre­neur in any sense." 
Innovation '95 is open to any students interested and admis­sion will cost $10. 
The South Bend Tribune Business Weekly contributed to this report. 
By BECKY MAYERNIK News Writer 
Yesterday's Student Activities Board (SAB) meeting at Saint Mary's centered around the ac­tivities and events being planned for AnTostal. 
SAB members announced many ideas for events to occur on the Thursday of the week long spring celebration. 
Among the features planned are Aero-Flight, Alpha Experi­ence, "The Dating Game", slip and slide Jell-0 pits, Sumo wrestling, and the "Rocky Hor­ror Picture Show." According to the AnTostal chairperson Candy Novak, "We are trying to plan more activities this year that students will be interested in, and we're trying to find a wide variety of unique ideas so that we can really out-do last year." 
According to Novak, Sumo wrestling and the "Rocky Hor­ror Picture Show" were banned from the Notre Dame campus because of the mess that re­sulted from them. Therefore, the members of SAB decided to sponsor these events this year for the Saint Mary's campus. 
It was also announced at yes­terday's meeting that a band will not appear at Saint Mary's for AnTostal this year. This is due to the fact that many bands will be performing on the Notre Dame campus on Thursday of the AnTostal week. "We don't see a point to have a band per­form on the same night that Notre Dame is featuring bands," said SAB chairperson Audrey Comrie. "This is be­cause the point of AnTostal is to give students a variety of events to take part in." 
As an alternative to bringing in a band, SAB will possibly bring an outdoor movie, similar to a drive-in, to the campus: ,Jt was decided that if more op­tions were presented to stu­dents, it would be beneficial for everyone involved. 
There will be no dorm events between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students for AnTostal, it was declared. This would pre­sent too much trouble for stu­dents to travel back and forth between campuses, according to Novak. SAB will be speaking to the Hall Councils about possible hall events between the Saint Mary's residence halls. Suggestions for a new 
logo for AnTostal are also being accepted at the front desk at

Applications are now being accepted for 
Haggar College Center, accord­ing to Novak. The theme is "Crush for the Crown", and entries should be submitted early next week. 
In other SAB news:




Nanaaer Posii:ions 
•A 
cultural event will be planned for the first or second week of March. 

•An 
artist that will be selling


at 
see SAB/ page 8 

Alu111nli Senlior Club AHeartfelt 
Gift.


for the 1995-96 academic school year.  Giw Teleflora's  
\3 M  You may pick up applications at the  "From My Heart" Bouquetfor Valentine's Day,  
~ ~ ~CLU~Office ofStudent Activities, 315 LaFortune.  Tuesday, February 14.  
~Nl 0  Deadline March I st 1995  
TRADE  SECRET  
Present this Coupon and Receive  
20°/o Off all  
KMS  
Products.  Suzanne's  
Floral  
Valid only at University Park Mall  288-7551  
TRADE SECRET  Corner of Ironwood & Edison  
Offer good 2/10-24/95 •"Exclu 2oz Sizes  WE DELIVER TO CAMPUS! 31elefiom: I  




page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, February 10, 1995 

-----------------~----------------~---~~--~~--~ -~ -~­
Friday, February 1 0, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Messner discusses the effects of sports on masculinity 
By KATHLEEN LATTANZI 
News Writer 
"From the beginning, sports has been the dividing ground between men and women," said Dr. Michael Messner, an associ­ate professor in sociology at the University of Southern California. 
Dr. Messner addressed the effects of organized sports on men's masculinity in his lee­lured entitled "Organized Sports and the Construction of Masculinity." 
"Since 1972, the number of women in sports has increased, but equality in women's sports is far from being achieved," ac­eording to Messner. 
lie believes the inequality of and attitudes towards women on the field sometimes becomes sexually aggressive behavior off the field. 
"The way that masculinity and sports are intertwined in society, does point to a ten­dency towards sexual assault," said Messner. He concludes that there are definite causes rooted in male sports for this sexual aggression towards women off the field. 
"[Male] group bonds are formed through very competi­tive sexual banter," said Mess­ner. This banter builds a boundary that separates men from women and creates a structured hierarchy within the group of men. 
The athletes are at the top of the hierarchy. They are de­fined as the "big men on cam­pus." "They are supposed to be sexually active, supposed to know everything about sex, supposed to be as good at sex as they are on the playing field," said Messner, "however, they are insecure about their own sexuality." 


According to Messner, "Women have become the ob­jects of conquest and manipula­tion due to men's sexual inse­curities." 
Coaches also effect the sexual insecurities of players. "Coaches sometimes play on the sexual insecurities of males to gain ultimate performance," said Messner. The players, in turn, refuse to be associated with anything feminine, in­creasing the hostility towards women. 

The outcome of most men's sports ultimately involve hurt­ing the opponent. Men in sports learn not to think about hurting people. "They bring this suppression of empathy off the field and see violence as a legitimate means to get what they want," said Messner. 
He cites the recent 0. J. Simpson trial, saying "sexual abuse is not quite as unusual as it seems." 
He proposes that coaches 
, ..• SECUR,TY BEAT MON., FEB.6 
2:46 p.m. A Pangborn Hall resident reported receiving harassing telephone calls. 
2:57 p.rn. A Grace Hall resident reported the theft of his bike from the JACC Fieldhouse. 
8 p.m. A visitor was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of asports injuryi'i't.. 
10:25 p.m. A visitor reported the theft of his wallet from the JACC Ice Rink. 
should not play on young men's sexual insecurities. The older men can also help to set the standard for younger men by not engaging in demeaning be­havior towards women. 
Messner also believes that young boys should participate in co-ed sports to learn early in life that girls can be as competitive as boys. "We must move towards equality in women's sports so that sexual aggression toward women will decrease," concludes Messner. 
TUES., FEB. 7 
1:55 a.m. An off-campus student was cited for disregarding a stop sign on Ivy Road. 
11 :03 a.m. A Pangborn Hall resident reported receiving harassing phone calls. 
WEDS., FEB. 8 
1:15 p.m. An off-campus student reported the theft of her bookbag from the Hesburgh Library. 
2:15p.m. An off-campus student reported the theft of his bike from out· side Sacred Heart Church. 

FEBRUARY CONCERT SCHEDULE 
Saturday, Feb. 11, 9:00pm  Mushroomhead Experience ($!at door>  
Saturday, Feb. 18, 8:30pm  Q.E.D.  
Friday, Feb. 24,  9:00pm  DECAF with Tiny (from the Univ. of Illinois)  
Saturday, Feb. 25, 9:00 pm  Roadapples  

Open Mondays7-10 pm, Wednesdays and Saturdays 8pm-12am 

THIS SAT. AT 8PM IN THE LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 





page 8 The Observer • NEWS Friday, February 10, 1995 
• CAMPUS BRIEF 
Miriam Eckelhoefer has been named the state winner of Indiana Music Teachers Association (IMTA) student competition in college-level string performance. 
Eckelhoefer, a sopho¢ort~ music . major at the University of Notre Dame, studies cello with Karen Buranskas, associ­ate professor of music and member of the Notre Dll<me String Trio. 
She is the daughter of Christine and Reinhold Eckel­hoefer of Fallbrook; CA. 
IMTA state competitions are open to all students of IMTA members and begin with a dis­trict-level audition in the spring semester. 
The audition process includes a written and an aural theory test to encourage musicianship as well as performance. All district win­ners advance to the statewide competition in the fall semes· ter. 
IMTA is a professional orga­nization affiliated with the Mu­sic Teachers National Associa­tion. 
. ':.:.~: .. 
-.a;·:···· 

The semifinalS and flna.l of Notte Dam,e •s 19.95 ~()llege C¢l~bratioq, of Black, HistorY Bowl Tournament are sched-Month. · ··· · uled for Feb. 11 atthe Center Organized by the Pan-for Continuing Educatiop., African Cultural Center of 
The fint,tl fo~f teams will b~-.... south Bend~ the community, gin testing their brain power''."celebration will take place'" at 10 a.m. with the two win-from 2-10 p.m. at Clay High ners advancing to the final at School. 
noon. . . x.;, / ~ctivith~lil will iO:clp~e semi The tournll<nrent · o . .!:s> workshops pp: Afric willrepresent Notre Dame ln rumming and dancing. film the College Bowl regional presentations from the tournament Feb. 24•26 at lnternatio:Jlal Black Cinem~ Quincy Colleg~. 'j[riil'•····· Festival, a, ~ijmer,. and music, Created in 1953 • the' College Pincluding ··.It performance by BowUs the world's longest the Notre Dame Voices of runnlng general knowledge ¥aith Gosp~l Choir. .. .•. · quiz comp.etitio1l; ;;,,[iLRoland}Smith, executiv~ 
• Four-student teams from assistant. to the president/ campuses across the country director of the Notre Dame compete in .a question-and~ ~titutefor Urban Studies and ansY\'er gameJhat tes~ ~m>wl~ ·~o:o,curreq,t!lssociate professorr· edge in everything from histo~ · of sociology; wlllbe among the' ry, literature;' science, religion panelists in a seminar entitled and geography to current ....tAfricans and African­events, the arts. social sci"' Am.erlcaq,~; An Issue of Time en~~s. sportf!c.and pop~larcul• !Wd Space.·~ ture. The City~Wide Celebration of 
Dubbed the "varsity sport if )llack History Month is open to the mind," the College Bowl the puhlic.Tickets are $10 for wa~ televise.d weekly from .••. <,J.~ttlts, $7 t:or college and hig)l 1959-1970. ······· school students and senior 
More than a dozen of the citizens, and $2 for elemen­University of Notre Dame tary school students and mid-:, organizatigtJ,s will join with .dl~ schoolstudeuts..·. .............. others from South Bend Feb. •Wr For m<Yre information, call 11 in the J995 City~Wide ~32-9ns;>:i · ·· 

MacLeod 
continued from page 1 
fight cancer]." 
After Notre Dame's victory over Duquesne Wednesday night, the Irish have hit 109 three-pointers, raising a total of $2600 so far this season. 
Joe Madden of South Bend's ACS said that he is pleased with the progress made in the first year, but he is also looking to increase participation in the program. Presently, 45 people have pledged between 25 cents and $5 per basket made, for an average of $24 per trey. 
As of last Friday, the Univer­sity of Minnesota leads the way, with an average of $122.53 per shot, according to Amy Berendzen of the Jefferson City, Mo., ACS chapter, head­quarters of the program. Notre Dame currently ranks within the top 30 among the participating universities. 
"The program has been slow this year," MacLeod said, "but it's been the first year. You have to start somewhere." 
A goal of $100 per shot has been set, but a number of ob­stacles will have to be over­come before that can be achieved, Madden said. 
The ACS has been hindered by a University policy that disallows solicitation on cam­pus by charities, a policy both MacLeod and Madden say they understand. Consequently, the ACS has been unable to reach its target group -the fans ­at basketball games. 
Moreover, MacLeod and the ACS formed their partnership only a month before the season began, not enough time to get the program on solid footing. 
The ACS is looking into devel­oping some corporate sponsor­ships to promote the program for next season, according to Madden. 
"We've contacted the TV and radio stations who cover the games," he said, "so after a three-point basket next year, you may hear them announce the sponsor of the shot." 
The Irish's entrance into the Big East Conference next sea­son will boost participation, Madden said. 
"Big East basketball will defi­nitely spark interest," he con­tinued. "And Coach MacLeod is working hard to improve the quality of the team. As the team improves, more people will be inclined to donate." 
Both MacLeod and Madden are optimistic about the Three­Point Attack. 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
ture. 
"After seven years in the ser­vice of the institution, why would the administration break this sacred trust?" asked Asso­ciate Professor Supriyo Bandy­opadhyay of Williams. 
"When I heard the news, I went to Tim O'Meara and asked him what did I do? He re­sponded that it has nothing to do with you personally. Well yes it does, so I have no answer to that question," said Williams. 
Professor David Burrell ques­tioned Williams on exactly what he felt was unjust about his treatment received, for some­times circumstances collide which deem certain actions necessary. 'The bottom line is 
SAB 
continued from page 5 
blowing glass objects will be brought to Saint Mary's on March 20-24 in the LeMans lobby. 
•The 
Guatemalan Sale will also be brought back this semester on March 27-31. 

•The 
next movie that SAB will sponsor will be "The Professional," which will be shown next weekend in Carroll Auditorium. There will be no movie shown this weekend. 


8-20/30

MINUTE PACKAGES 
or 

1 MONTH/3 MONTH UNLIMITED PACKAGES 
5804 Grape Rd., Mishawaka 
2n-7946 

HUURS· 9 to 8 Sat. 9 to 6 Sun. I 1-5 
that the associate provost serves at the pleasure of the provost," said Burrell. 
"I wanted a years notice to make a graceful exit. l took that as a contract, and a viola­tion of contract is a serious vio­lation of justice. My point is that if you have to override decisions, you have to give the reasons," said Williams. 
Teaching at the Business School, Williams still keeps his contacts with Notre Dame and he is also presently researching a book on South Africa and eth­ical issues. To speak for the Senate, he flew in from South Africa and will return again in a few days. 

One of the reasons Williams chose to speak at the meeting was in the hope that it would "make it a little more difficult to treat someone else this way in the future." 
Williams reiterated the "need to teach our students by role modeling and not just what we teach in the classroom." 

Mary B. Green C . d B 
ome m an rowse Open daily 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Sundays 9:00a.m. to 12:00 Noon 
Serving Notre Dame and St. Mary's Serving South Bend, Mishawaka & Granger for over 60 years 
Pertoct for V~enunes Day: Mens' &Womens' s~es availcilie 
Fox's Jewelers University Perk Mall, 6501 Grape Road 272-0488 
An oulherlzed TAG Heuer dealer 

OF AMERICA 
Daily Delivery to Notre Dame and South Bend 
Don'tForgetyoursweetheart onValentinesDay. Order Early! 
1404 N. Ironwood Dr. South Bend, IN 46635 

• 
(219) 288-3995 
M-F 7:30-7 Sat 8-6 Edison 
Sun 10-5 

11All major credit cards accepted" CHARGE BY PHONE 

~STOOPS~ 
CONQUER 
BY OLIVER GOLDSMITH 
Performed by the Juil!iard School Drama Division 
Thurs., Feb. 16, 8 pm Fri., Feb. 17, 8 pm Sat., Feb. 18, 8 pm 
Reserved Seats $14 Students and Senior Citizens $10 
Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office 
MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128 

(l5tfti~
-"'«-"'-·~~ 
ZELDA FICHANOU:R MARGOT HARLEY 
Art1.t.c Dift:Ctor Eucu11~e PrudiK"t'r 

Friday, February IO, 1995 The Observer· WASHINGTON NEWS page 9 
Quayle reverses quest for presidential nomination 
By JOHN KING 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

liard-pressed to attract the money and talent necessary for a strong campaign, former Vice President Dan Quayle abruptly reversed course Thursday and said he would not seek the 1996 Hepublican presidential nomination. 
Quayle's decision came less than three weeks after he vowed to campaign aggres­sively as a voice for the conser­vative "unsilent majority" that he said was appalled at the de­cline of the family and the lib­eral bent of the social welfare system. 
In a statement, Quayle said he was confident he could have waged a ,winning campaign if he had subjected himself to a grueling fund-raising schedule this year. "However, we chose to put our family first and to forego the disruption to our lives that a third straight na­tional campaign would create," he said. 
Advisers, associates and Re­publican operatives, however, said it bec~me clear as Quayle geared up to run that the fund­raising outlook was bleak, and that he also was having a hard time convincing seasoned cam­paign operatives to sign on. A new, front-loaded GOP primary calendar has put a premium on early fund-raising, a difficult process cited by several others who recently bowed out, including fellow Bush adminis­tration alumni Jack Kemp and Dick Cheney. 
Quayle associates said recent health problems were not a factor; Quayle was hospitalized recently for blood clots and then to have his appendix removed because of a benign tumor. "He is completely recovered," said Quayle advis­er Mark Goodin. 
"He was extremely excited and fired up about running a campaign," said Goodin. "But the financial aspect of it threw a bucket of cold water on his enthusiasm." 
The decision leaves three def­inite Republican candidates: Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole of Kansas, Se.n. Phil Gramm of Texas and former Gov. Lamar Alexander of Ten­nessee. 
The Department of Music 
presents 

;<!t!~!~therfw{t ~~ 
'lliL::::""" S'f"pfw'"f<hr&stra >-" ~ 
'11ie 9{{1tre 'Dame Sti11!J 'Trio ~( 
2:00p.m. Sunday, February 12 Annenberg Auditorium 
$5 General Admission $2 Students & Senior Citizens For more information, please call631-6201. 


New arrest in Trade Center bombing 

• 
Are you creative? 

• 
Do you enjoy good advertising? 

• 
Wr>uld you like to promote the accounts of local businesses? 

• 
Are you hard-working? 



ByGREGMYRE 
Associated Press 
ISLAMABAD 

Police found a little surprise this week when they arrested the man suspected of master­mining the World Trade Center bombing: explosives in his bag, hidden in toy cars. 
"He was found with explo­sives ... and chemicals used in making bombs," Interior Min­ister Nasirullah Babar, who su­pervises Pakistan's police, said Thursday as he described the arrest of Ramzi Ahmed Yousef. 
Nabbed Tuesday in Pakistan, Yousef was secretly whisked to the United States in a U.S. gov­ernment plane. 
In New York on Thursday, he pleaded innocent to 11 counts relating to the Feb. 26, 1993, bombing of the Manhattan landmark. 
That attack on the world's second-tallest building killed six people, injured more than 1,000 others, caused $500 mil­lion in damage and introduced Americans to the fear of inter­national terrorism. 
Clean-shaven and dapper in a blue double-breasted suit, Yousef appeared calm and spoke fewer than 10 words during his brief appearance before U.S. District Judge John 
F. Keenan. 
"I plead not guilty," he said in English, waving off an inter-· preter. He told the judge he understood the indictment. 
The most serious charges Yousef faces are punishable by life in prison without parole. Yousef was being held without bond until his next court ap­pearance on Wednesday. 
Authorities say Yousef, who came to the United States in 1992, bought and mixed the chemicals for the bombs that exploded in a van parked under the 110-story twin towers. 
Yousef, who had been living with two other bombing sus-


Artists & Designers 
• 
Are you interested in commercial design? 

• 
Would you like the 


opportunity to work with the Observer's Marketing 
team? 

• Would you like your work 
to be seen daily by 13,000 readers? 
• Are you hard-working? 
The Observer is welcoming resumes for the above paidpositions until Friday, February 
10. Ifyou have any questions contact Tom Lillig at 631-8839. 


AP/ Terry Kola. Brian Sipple 
were found in Yousef's hotel room: one empty and the other with the toy cars. 
The interior minister and other senior officials said ini­tially that Yousef was carrying a passport and travel docu­ments from his native Iraq. 
He used the alias of Ali Khan, one of them said. 
But Babar saW later Yousef was traveling o~ a fake Pak­istani passport. 
And U.S. officials say Yousef was born in Kuwait and now is. a Pakistani citizen with Iraqi travel documents. He is either 26 or 27, they say. 
The interior minister told the AP that Yousef was immediate­ly handed over to the Americans, who whisked him out of the country Tuesday. 
"We turned him over to the Americans and told them to take him out of here," Babar said. 
But he told the British Broad­casting Corp. that before being handed over to U.S. officials, Yousef was interrogated by Pakistani authorities and admitted to being involved in the 1993 Trade Center bomb­ing. 

pects in Jersey City, N.J., es­caped the night of the bombing, using an alias to fly to Iraq via Pakistan. His fingerprints were found on two bomb-making manuals seized by authorities and on containers of bomb­making chemicals, _authorities say. 
Babar, the interior minister, gave several conflicting state­ments about the case that could not be immediately reconciled. 
Last Sunday, Yousef arrived in Pakistan on a flight from Bangkok, Thailand, according to Babar. 
He was tailed by plainclothes police for two days, then arrested Tuesday at a Holiday Inn. 
"He was under surveillance from the time he arrived," Babar told The Associated Press. 
U.S. officials in Washington, however, insist Yousef was cap­tured at a boarding house, not a Holiday Inn. 
President Clinton called the arrest "a major step forward in the fight against terrorism." The State Department had posted a $2 million reward for Yousefs capture, but it was not clear if anyone would get the money. 
Babar said two suitcases 

• Private Dining Booths! 
e lunch Specials starting at $3.50 
include: egg roll, soup and tea e Dinners starting at $5 e Fresh Ingredients 


GARRY TRUDEAU 

''prayer. The last refuge of a scoundrel." 
-Usa Simpson 
THE OBSERVER 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager john Lucas Joseph Riley 

News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Spons Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Don Kingston Photo Editor....................... Scou Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editorr .............. Elizabeth Regan Controller ..................................... Kristen Manina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by <he students of the Universiry of Notre Dame: du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the adminisua­rion of either institution. The news is reported as accuiately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the: Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoinr space is available to all members of the Nmre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor /Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 






VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Friday, February 10, 1995 
CAPTAl~? I'M S~NDING 
THAT WOULD B~,

m~ SOS! ~OW WYOU 
"EXPfRIENCING

SAY, ''TAKING ON WATER" AProBL£M ~ITHIN CLINTONbS~? OUR SHORT·T~RM
LIQUIDITY.,,. 

• BEYOND FREEDOM ROCK 
25 years later, nothing's changed 
In recounting events of a gener­ation ago, and trying to reconcile the myths of the Sixties with the reality of a much-hyped era, this column has often touched upon the outrageous sexual atmosphere that existed at Notre Dame. 
There were no undergraduate women at Notre Dame, and the ratio of nearl:JW5even Notre Dame men to every Saint Mary's woman meant there were very few dating opportunities for the average freshman or sophomore at Notre Dame. 
As 
a result, =============== me.

the atmos-You need not phere was poi-believe in the soned between Pete Mystical Body 
the sexes. of Christ-I Particularly so am, at best. an with boys who affectionate
p·eterson

did try to date onlooker at 
being too often humiliated by girls who were playing out fantasies of Scarlett, surrounded by those who would eat barbecue with her, while those same girls lived under a constant rain of vulgarity and insult, as if the campus were noth· ing more than a giant construction site. 
But there came a point, in the spring of 1970, when an awaken­ing consciousness emerged from one direction, and the freedoms that came with the times degener­ated into license at the other end. 
This will be a recurring theme in this semester's columns, as it was that semester. I try not to be a condescending elder, but I think it is important that, as young African-Americans must know how their grandparents lived before the Civil Rights Movement, so, too, young women must know how their mothers grew up, in each case so that they can com­plete the climb to justice with a clear sense of how hard their pre­decessors worked for what has already been won. 
I think it is also critical that those who are not of African descent understand a movement within their nation, and that those who are not women understand a movement within their culture, because these movements do not simply benefit their immediate constituencies. This truth is beyond John Donne, and closer to the truth that, as it is done to the least of my children, it is done to 
that feast-to 
believe that a 
living society is made more whole as each member of that society is healed. 
So let us begin: In the spring of 1970, men and women on these two campuses stood in great need of healing, and the healing did not come, and the semester ended in violence and anger. 
But it was in that semester that the seeds were planted, some to bear fruit, some to rot in the ground, some to remain ungermi­nated in the rocky soil. The most tangible element appeared in the form of an amazing, 45-page, mimeographed document, pub­lished under the collective author­ship of "notre dame coalition for political action, elizabeth gurley flynn caucus." 
CPA was an established campus group, but the caucus was some­thing new. The document, "Sexism on Campus," is amazing because, while it contains a few samples of the overblown rhetoric and overarching revolutionary pretensions of the time (and the CPA), it is, on the whole. a very clear statement of what was. and offers some extremely cogent analyses of why. 

Its introduction begins: 

"This booklet is written by men, primarily for men--we don't think we're qualified to speak for, let alone lead in any sense, the move­ment for female liberation. It is important, however, that this movement, and the issues it speaks to, be understood for what they are, and not what the mass media and Notre Dame 'be-man' would like to pass them off as. 
"It is not getting rid of bras, lan­guage niceties and male 'courte­sies'-these are only symbols of the roles into which we are social­ized. It is not free sex, as many men wish-or the denial of sex, as many men fear. Finally, it is not simply trying to get more 'career women' into hierarchies whose values and styles of operation are defined in male, white, profit-ori­ented terms. 
"Women's liberation is an attack on the existing roles which oppress us all-and is thereby men's liberation as well." 
I subscribe to and read the Observer and I see that anything I say about the women's movement 25 years ago will sound one note: That, while many changes have been made, very little has changed. 
It is a note that can lead to despair and inaction, or that can cause people to redouble their efforts. I'll write the stuff,' and leave you to make the character decisions. 
Pete Peterson, '71, is Readership Services Manager at the Press­Republican in Plattsburg, NY. 
• LEnER TO THE EDITOR 
D2 drivers ·audition for the Icy 500 
Dear Editor: 
As my friends and I pulled back into 02 Parking Lot 
late Thursday night Jan. 27, hopelessly searching for a 
parking spot to make the trek across the frozen tundra 
we call North Quad a little shorter. we noticed that 
someone had planted a nice, big, ol' fat beauty mark on 
the right rear side of a parked car near tP.e entrance of 
D2. It was pretty well smashed. This car initiated a 
domino effect with the next three cars parked next to it. 
Now it's not everyday that one comes across a four-car 
pileup in D2. 
So needless to say I was a little shocked and a bit 
angry for a number of reasons. First of all, people drive 
like they're on the Formula 1 circuit in the parking lot. 
Also, it appeared as if whoever had done the dirty work 
had taken off. As of submitting this letter, security had 
not yet begun to untangle the mess. But what bothered 
me most, was that while nearly the whole campus had 
been cleared ofsnow since Tuesday morning Jan. 25, no 
one had touche() t~e D2 parking lots as of Thursday 
night at 1 a:m. ·Ihe entire parking lot was covered with 
two inches of packed snow that had turned to ice. I 
realize that it may be difficult to remove the snow with 
all of the cars in the way, but it didn't appear as if any­
one had at least spread some salt around. Now, I have 
no idea how the accident on Thursday night occurred. 
but the presence of that much ice in the parking lot 
almost certainly had something to do with it, and it is 
conceivable that the University could be held partially 
responsible in such ~:;ases. , 
The bottom line is this: First, I just want to ask every­
one who parks in D2 to take the brick off of the gas 
pedal and slow down. Second. while it's nice to be able 
to walk to class without any ice or snow, I've got a rea­
son why 02 needs to be plowed just as badly as any 
other place on campus. My reason is red, has four 
wheels, and goes vroom vroom when you step on the 
gas. Granted, my reason may be a pile of junk. but 
there are many more reasons out there that are a bit 
pricier that J).eed to be considered. [ did not pay sixty 
dollars for <,t p~r~ln~J !!tlcker to give my car an unwanted 
facelift. S9 Whl:l;t()o ya say that we all slow down a bit, 
and could the utiiversity please have the lots cleared 
when it sfiQws? 
MATT FITZGERALD ANDREW BUCCI JOHNNY CRUZ 
Seniors Zahm Hall 






VIEWPOINT
Friday, February 10, 1995 page 11 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
GLND SMC controversy rages on 
'Silent majority' ofuniversity supporters finally speaks out 
Discrimination's not the Catholic way 
Dear Editor: 

I have noticed that both the opinions expressed in the Viewpoint section and the Observer's mainstream coverage of the University administration's recent decision to prevent GLND/SMC from using campus facilities for meetings have been almost all pro-GLND/SMC. I thought that it was time for someone from the silent majority to speak out. Kudos to the University admin­istration for taking a stand and changing its policy instead of shamelessly bowing down and giving into the demands of GLND/SMC. The University should not 
have to let a group that is so diametrically opposed to its mission, values, and beliefs meet on campus. GLND/SMC never should have been allowed to meet on campus in the first place. 
Let me now turn the Word of the Lord. The Bible has this to say about homosexu­ality: "You shall not lie with a man as with a woman; such a thing is an abomination." (Lev. 18:22); "If a man lies with a man as with a woman, both of them shall be put to death for their abominable deed; they have forfeited their lives; (Lev. 20:13); "Do not be deceived; neither fornicators nor idol­aters...nor practicing homosexuals... will inherit the kingdom of God: (1 Corinthians 6:9-10). And I"m sure all of us are famil­iar with the story in Genesis about God destroying the cities of Sodom ad Gomorrah with "fire and brimstone: "Gen. 19:23-24). In his book Homosexuality and the Christian Way of Life, Fr. Edward Malloy mentions four sins which the Church has long believed "cry to heaven for vengeance": the sin of sodom; willful murder; oppression of the poor, widows and orphans; and defrauding laborers of their wages. That's a pretty select compa­ny. 
For a Catholic university to officially rec­ognize a group of homosexuals and/or.4? allow them to convene on campus does not make sense; it would be tantamount to recognizing and allocating campus facili­ties for a pro-abortion grouup or a group 
Dear Editor: 
For the past 10 days, the Observer, the local newspaper and both radio and television stations have carried stories about the Vice President of Student Affairs' decision to no longer allow the members of GLNDSMC to meet in the University Counseling Center. 
While both students and members of the Office of Student Affairs have been quot­ed on the subject-no one, from either print or electronic media, has sought my reaction. I have interpreted this to mean that most people realize that this is not a Counseling Center issue. However, I am very concerned about how is this being per­ceived by our many gay stu­dents, both those who are outed and those who are not. I am also concerned about the vari­ous "historical" renderings that have surfaced. I would like to address both of these. 
The University Counseling Center's core staff is a group of psychologists who are licensed in the State of Indiana, are members of the American Psychological Association and have various other professional credentials and affiliations. Many of us are also Catholic and are all well of aware of the positions of the Catholic Church In this area-official and other­wise. As psychologists we sup­port the position that homosex­uality is not a "choice" or "pref­erence" but is a sexual orienta­tion. Being homosexual is not a disorder. How one chooses to act out their sexuality behav­iorally is affected by many fac­tors including laws, ethical beliefs and religious values. These decisions occur within 
' It is our hope that the 
gay students of Notre Dame will continue to see our office as a place for support and profes­sional help.' 
the contexts of family, church, school and society. It is sad to have to say this, but given some of the comments I have read in this paper. it is also neither contagious nor likely to be "chosen." 
The homosexual clients who have used our office in the past have done so for many reasons. We do not "treat" homosexuali­ty but do assist students who are having difficulty in either discerning the sexual orienta­tion or coping with the many stresses that being homosexual places on individuals in our community. In fact, most of our homosexual clients simply note that they are gay and proceed to present their clinical con­cerns. These are typically simi­lar to those of heterosexual stu­dents-anxiety. depression and relationship problems. It is our hope that the gay students of Notre Dame will continue to see our office as a place for support and professional help. 

Moreover, the events that led to the recent decision include the following. About nine years ago GLND/SMC petitioned for official recognition. This was denied. Father David Tyson, then Vice President for Student Affairs, charged the University Counseling Center and Campus Ministry with the task of pro­viding special services to gay students. We have provided services in two areas. First, we have sponsored educational programs for gay students, since unrecognized groups can­not do so. The topics and speakers were typically chosen by the GLND/SMC. There have been times that we brought in speakers and participated in colloquia on this topic without a request from the group. 
Secondly, since this group could not reserve rooms for meetings, we offered our large group meeting room if another location on or off campus could not be found. I have always had concerns about using a clinical setting for social/business meet­ings-particularly with this group since I did not want the meeting to be seen as intended for those with clinical needs. Some years the group used it with regularity and some years it was not used. I have never been secretive about this and have always thought that I was operating within the original charge by Father Tyson. Recent statements have suggested that I may have "misunderstood" the charge. I would see this as possible but unlikely. 
The recent discussions have also noted that it is different to have a group of gay students meet than to have GLNDSMC meet. That is a distinction that did not seem very important to me. Each Fall I met with the chair or co-chairs of the group 
' Gay students repre­
sent us in varsity sports, are class officers, march in our bands, have parents who are faculty and alumni, hold 4.0 GPA's, and, most of all, pay tuition.' 
and asked if he/she were plan­ning to use the room. From that point on they would sign out the room under their own name. I did this not to hide the fact that they were meeting at UCC but rather to avoid their having to identify themselves as this of pedophiles. In his article "Marred gay symbols show campus intolerance" (Observer, Feb. 6, pg. 11), Douglas Metz said that he was "outraged" that gay and lesbian graffiti on campus had been amended. Well, who asked the gays and lesbians to defile and disgrace our campus with their "art"? While two wrongs do not make a right, the vandals who marked up the campus with these symbols should be the ones being chastised. I also wanted to comment on some disturbing verbiage that was part of the CLC's second resolution in 
'The University should not 
have to let a group that is so diametrically opposed to its mis­sion, values, and beliefs meet on campus.' 
response to the administration's decision to expetl GLND/SMC from the University Counseling Center. The Council's second proposal, which fortunately was rejected, would have, among other things, "call(ed) upon the University to recognize GLND/SMC as an integral part of the Notre Dame community ..." Integral? The Merriam Webster's Collegiate Dictionary defines "integral" as "essential to com­pleteness." Where would Notre Dame be without this "essential" group? Could it survive? Would students still come here? How did notre Dame manage to survive for over one hundred years before such an "integral" group existed? 
In conclusion, I fully support the decision by the University's administration and encourage others who share my belief to let their feelings be known. We cannot lost sight of the fact that Notre Dame is first and foremost a Catholic institution. 
BRIAN BERRY 
Sophomore 
Dillion Hall 
group to our front office. Clearly the decision to advertise the group and its meeting place in the fall of last year brought up a whole new area of discus­sion. There are also university policies concerning advertising by groups and this action was apparently outside one of these policies. 
Over the years, I have been asked my opinion about many aspects of the issues surround­ing Gay and Lesbian students at Notre Dame. I would obviously like to see the recognition of a group for Gays and Lesbians. However, and more important­ly, I feel that we must stop talk­ing about THEM. Gay students are US. Gay students represent us in varsity sports, are class officers, march in our bands, have parents who are faculty and alumni, hold 4.0 GPA's, and, most of all, pay tuition. I am enough of sixties' person to hope that if this community can stop harassing, marginalizing, romanticizing, discussing, or bashing gay students and sim­ply be welcoming and accept­ing, "official recognition" will be superfluous. Sometimes believers have to teach the "official church" what Jesus meant. I think that is what Pentecost is about. 
PATRICK UTZ 
Director University Counseling Center 

--------~----~~-------------­

~----~--------~-.-.-­
page 12 By BRYCE SEKI 
Accent Writer 
B 
ritish Philosopher Francis Bacon once said, "Some books are to be tasted, others to be swallowed, and some few to be chewed and digested." From our first taste of books we are drawn into this new world of words and pictures. Dick, Jane, and their dog Spot become our book­bound friends. Even in early youth there are books which we latch onto and hold as our favorites; Dr. Seuss, Superfudge, and Willy Wonka have all infected our minds and become the discussion of many a third-grade show and tell session. As we grow older we venture out to taste and sample dif­ferent books. We find many that are reasonably interesting, but after one reading these choices find their way to the bookshelf for storage. On occa­sion, though, we discover books that truly speak to us. These are the works which we "chew and digest." The characters, the plot, and the author's style all take us away to that open road or bizarre dream to which we can relate. These tales become our favorites; to some they become a way of life. The following books, which were all written some ftfty years ago, speak to us today as they did to the generation that created them. They still possess the power to stir our minds with sublime, violent, or even drug-induced visions of life in America. 
Catcher in the Rye by J.D. Salinger 
Arguably the most popular twentieth century novel, Catcher in the Rye is the story of sixteen year-old Holden Caufield, a recently expelled prep school student who roams around New York City for a forty-eight hour span. It is an exploration of a teenager's unusual exploits, which include run­ning around the Big Apple, fighting with street punks, encountering a whorehouse, and pondering the essential questions of life. Salinger tells the story through the eyes of Holden, and in the process perfectly captures the thoughts and lan­guage of the average adolescent. In this narrative of mayhem and rebellion, Salinger effectively artic­ulates in fiction what every teen would love to live in reality. But, through all this fun, Holden fmds only hypocrisy and dishonesty in life. The charac­ter's discovery reveals that the sincerity that char­acterizes childhood seems to fade as we approach adulthood and is replaced by corruption. The story becomes a chronicle of Holden's realization of this fact and his struggle to keep the vulnerability he does not want to lose. Since its publication in 1951, Catcher in the Rye has spoken to many gen­erations of teenagers suffering from teen angst. 
Junky by William S. Burroughs 
The first work by beatnik writer William S. Burroughs, Junky is an intense account of one man's drug addiction. Originally published as Junkie under the pen name Wiliam Lee, this work takes us on an intense journey with a heroin addict. We encounter his psychedelic dreams, crazy schemes to score drugs, and torrid pain in his attempt to kick using "junk". We see the addict progress from nominal user to full addict to jailed drug pusher. This addict is in essence Burroughs, who by drawing upon his own drug addiction, takes command of 60's slang and uses it with great effect in retracing his heroin-based life from his Midwest roots to the slums of Mexico City. Like most of the writers of the Beat Generation, Burroughs has a strong following. His readers are intrigued by the humor he can bring to serious topics such as drug abuse. His writing style is slightly mechanical, but the outlandishness of his hallucinogenic tales make him a popular favorite. 





The Observer• WEEKEND 
On the Road by Jack Kerouac 
Called the Bible of the Beat Generation, On the Road is the masterpiece of beat king Jack 1\erouac. Its impact not only encompassed his generation, but continues to do so in the generation of today, where it has had profound impacts on such artists as Michael Stipe and 10,000 Maniacs. With its rhythmic prose, On the Road is a tale detailing the numerous experiences of the author himself. As a device of the fictionalized autobiographical piece, Kerouac incorporates friends and fellow writers Allen Ginsberg, William S. Burroughs, Neal Cassady, as well as himself to accentuate his classic beat novel. Kerouac, embodying the character Sal Paradise, tells the tale of following his friend Dean Moriarty, who to Sal enjoys the essence of living. It is a whirlwind of images, as the two travel across America hitchhiking, doing drugs, and listening to jazz. On the Road gives us a glimpse of what life is like living as a beat. The novel that spurned many young Americans to don knapsacks and hit the road is a story of adventure and the endless search for stimulating experiences. Sal and Dean take us on a crazy rush of events that few people will ever live. On the Road is written with a certain honesty that attracts many a reader, beat affectianado or not. Kerouac, using his spontaneous method of writing prose, fmished On the Road in three short weeks. In those three weeks, one of the most influential novels of the decade was written. 
The Electric Kool-aid Acid Test by Tom Wolfe 
The title alone is intriguing enough. The Electric Kool-aid Acid Test is a non-fiction piece written about Ken Kesey, author of One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, and his Merry Pranksters. This is a story of a bunch of people gathering on a bus, speeding across the country, doing somewhat bizarre tests with LSD, and being sent off to Mexico. Their wild adventure comes to a close with an acid graduation ceremony. Included is Neal Cassady-the same Neal Cassady who Jack Kerouac drew upon for his character Dean Moriarty. Cassady is still the wild man, living life on pure instinct. Aside from the wildness and somewhat bizarre nature of the book, it quietly tests the judgment and morals of our country dur­ing the 60's. 

Irish alum brings passio 
By CAROLYN WILKENS 
Accent Writer 
M
ichael Collins is a man of defined passions. His passion for running, developed early on in life, would eventually take him across the Atlantic from Limerick, Ireland to Notre Dame on a track schol­arship. Two years later, he had discovered another great passion, writing, which would eventually earn him several honorary writing awards and the publication of three books. 
As a student, Collins recalls his first impression of Notre Dame as a radically different place. "I was pleas­antly surprised, although it was a great deal more wealth than what I was accustomed to." While at Notre Dame, he discovered his love of writing almost acciden­tally. As a junior, he signed up for Professor William O'Rourke's creative writing class simply because he thought it would be easy. However, he discovered a competitive environment in the classroom, the kind which he had thrived on as a runner. Collins acknowl­edges that O'Rourke was an important writing mentor for him both as an undergraduate and later as a gradu­ate student at Notre Dame. 
Collins will return to the Notre Dame campus as author and alum on Sunday, February 12, for the annu­al Sophomore Literary Festival. He says he is "flabber­gasted" by the honor, because as a writer he is still rel­atively young. 
If his earlier work, The Man Who Dreamt of Lobsters, is any indication, his audience won't be disappointed. Collins' trademark writing style has an almost surreal hypnotizing quality. He writes about what he knows best: the world of Ireland with all its complications and multi-faceted dimensions. Rather than shy away from the negative aspects of the Irish culture, Collins revels in the insular reality of it. "For my foreign audience I want a proper portrayal of the kind of Ireland I grew up in," he says. He bases some of his work on actual tales which he remembers from his youth in Ireland. "First Love" and "The Whore Mother" are two such examples. 
"The Meat Eaters," one of his earlier short stories, 



-----------~-------------~----...., 
~,;day, F<bmocy 10, 1995 
lnt'l Student Festival: Acultural learning 
I


exper1ence 
By SANDY KOEHLER 
Ac-ccm Writer 
T
radition is important. But the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community is no longer just Irish­Catholic. The rich cultural heritage of the stu­dents from both universities will be displayed on Saturday night when "Learning from Other Cultures," the theme of this year's International Student Organi­zation Festival, presents music and dances from coun­tries around the world. 
Marcelo Trigo, the President of the International Student Organization and the organizer of the festival says, "Through the ISOF, we want to help people learn about different cultures and see another side of the Notre Dame community and student body that isn't often seen." That's why this year's theme is "Learning from Other Cultures." 
Noja Elganzouri, one of the emcees for the evening, is very excited about the festival because she believes that it is important to learn from other cultures. She's been involved in the festival for three years and says, "Through the festival I have not only learned a great deal about my Egyptian culture, but also from other cul­tures as well. One year, I danced with the Lithuanian Club because they needed more people. It's just a real­ly neat experience how everyone can come together from dill'erent cultures and perform so that others can learn about cultures outside of South Bend." She also notes that, "For Notre Dame to grow as a community, we need to remember that there is more to campus life than football and St. Patrick's Day." 
The festival is able to show another side of campus life by bringing together many of the international clubs on campus that represent different conuntires and cul­tures of the world. Some of the clubs on campus that are involved include the Philippines Club, the Arab­
' American Club, and the Lithuanian Club among others. The Arab-American Club will be performing a 
Lebanese dance called the Dabke. Ramzi Bualan, the moderator of the club, taught seven of the club mem­bers the dance which they have been practicing for sev­eral weeks. It involves a great deal of footwork. Deseribing the dance, David Joseph, a member of the elub, explains, "The dance involves a great deal of stomping and footwork, but also a lot of gracefulness, too. It is a very up-beat dance." 
Another dance in the festival is the Flamenco which is 
a type of Spanish dance. Cristina Galatas, who is part of the dance, explains, "Spain has many different dances from the different regions of the country. The Flamenco is from the southern part of Spain and is usu­ally considered to be the representative dance of the country. In the dance, the women wear long dresses 
The Observer• WEEKEND 

and healed shoes while the men wear boots. As the dancers dance across the stage, they make stomping sounds with their shoes and boots in the rhythm of the music." 
Galatas also adds, "All of the people involved in the dance are self-taught, so there is a great deal of improvistations, but our version of the Flamenco will give the audience a taste of the Spanish culture." 
Other acts in the festival include the band Sabor Latino, Troop ND, and dances from Mexico such as the Meringue. Dances from the Philippines, Lithuania, Greece, and the Dominican Republic among others will also be represented. 
Besides the music and dances, there will also be a fashion show in which participants will display the cos­tumes and dress of different cultures. 
With all of the acts in the show, in its tenth year, the festival has grown to involve at least 120 people. Trigo says, "This year we have even grown to include Greek dancers from the South Bend community. I think it is great how we are able to bring together the student body and the community in this year's festival." 
However, Trigo also feels that there is a need to bring together all of the different cultures on campus includ­ing those that are not necessarily considered to be international. 
"Even though Troop ND represents the culture of the 
U.S. in a sense, there are still not many people of European descent involved in the International Student Organization and the festival." 
Trigo encourages more students to get involved because the ISO and the festival are not limited to stu­dents that are first or second generation Americans. 
"I would like to see more students get involved, but I am not sure just how to see this happen However, I just want people to know that the ISO and the festival should include every student on campus because we all have different cultures and backgrounds that we can learn from." 
Throughout the year, the ISO promotes cultural activi­ties on campus to improve interaction between students of different cultures. 
The first activity of the year is a picnic which is open to everyone on campus. Their second event this year was an International Banquet in November in the Center for Social Concerns where there was food from different countries of the world. 
As a senior, Trigo will be graduating from Notre Dame in the spring, but he hopes that the ISO and the festival will continue to grow and involve more students from Notre Dame and St. Mary's. . 
The International Student Organization Festival will be held this Saturday night at Washington Hall at 7:00. 
for writing back to NO 

·~friday 

·•7 PM IRISH HOCKEY VS OHIO 
·STAT~ 
•7:30 
& 9:4!5 PM ED WOOD, ·. SNITE ANNENBERG AUDITORIUM .•8 PM LOVE BITES MOVIE FEST, 

LAFORTUNE BALLROOM 

•8 
PM STAR TREK IV CUSHING ·. •8 PM SKETCH COMEDY SHOW .·.LIBRARY AU[)ITORIUM 



Saturday 

•7 
PM IRISH HOCKEY VS OHIO STATE 

•8 
PM SOPH. LIT FEST MARK LEYNER LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 

•7:30 
& 9:45 PM ED WOOD, SNITE ANNENBERG AUDITORIUM 

•8 
PM ISO FESTIVAL, WASHING· .TON HALL 

•8 
PM STAR T.REK VI CUSHING 



Sunday 

•2 
PM NOTRE DAME STRING TRIO SNITE ANNENBERG AUDI~ TORIUM 

•8 
PM SOPH LtT FEST MICHAEL ·COLLINS LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 



Movies 

UNIVERSITY PARK EAST •HIGHER LEARNING 1:30 4:10 6:45 9:30 •BEFORE SUNRISE 2: 10 4:!50 7:30 9:45 
•LEGENDS 
OF THE FAU.. 1:30 4: 1!5 7:10 9:55 •HIGHLANDER 3 FRI 9: 15 •DUMB AND DUMBER 2:00 4:30 7:00 9:15 

•PULP 
FICTION FRI 2:00 5: 1 5 8:45 

•BILLY 
MADISON 2: 1 0 4:50 7:30 9:45 


-. 

UNIVERSITY PARK WEST (IN MALL) 
•BOYS ON THE SIDE 1 :4!5 4:20 7:00 9:50 •NOBODY'S FOOL 2:00 4:40 7: 15 
9:40 -­
•JERKY BOYS 1:30 3:30 5:30 7:30 9:30 
exemplifies Collins's writing prowess. He skillfully braids together his words to create a kind of tight-rope tension. creating just the right amount of timed sus­pense. Readers may find themselves tripping over words to reach the end, simply in order to breathe again. 
Although some critics have compared Collins to past great Irish writers like James Joyce and Samuel Beckett. he quickly shrugs off such direct compliments. lie prefers to talk about the Irish writers in the 1950's such as Frank O'Connor and Sean O'Faoilian, and also lists Ernest Hemingway, Mark Hess and Milan Kundera as writers of worth. 
IIe clearly has a love/hate relationship with the coun­try of his birth. Although he loves Ireland as his home­land, Collins believes that it's difficult to be recognized for success in Ireland because of the stagnancy of the country. "You can easily reinvent yourself in the States because it's so immense, but in a much smaller country like Ireland it's more difficult." 
Collins's story ideas are fueled by a cinematic frame­work which he consciously observes. "Originally when you start to write you have a lot of ideas that are al­ready ingrained in you. The first couple of stories just float out of the pen. But writers have to constantly rein­vestigate their material. Different perspectives on the same idea can always create new stories." Eventually he would like to get into script writing and movie direct­ing, but that's for the future. In the meantime, Collins continues to hone his writing skills as he works on his latest book, a nonfiction work. He is currently working on his Ph.D. at the University of Illinois in Chicago where he lives with his wife. 
The author still finds time to run eight miles a day, which gives him the opportunity to think about his writ­ing. Writing and running, two passions combined, appear to be the key ingredients Collins has found to write his own success story. 
Editor's note: The Sophomore Literary Festival begins Saturday with Mark Leyner. An interview with Mr. Leyner will be published in Monday's Observer. 







ACCENT 
page 14 

We ask the candidates what you really want to know...boxers or briefs? 

By KRISTA NANNERY Accent Editor 

I
t's Student Body President and Vice President election time. But for a change, let's forget the issues. Let's forget the ideas. And let's forget the debates. Does that stuff tell us what we really want to know about the candidates? Does it let us into the secret recesses of their minds? Does it tell us their innermost desires, 
their likes, their dislikes? Who are these people any­how? Are we just going to''If they'll pull let two complete and total strangers determine thethe tags oH course of Student Body Government for the nexttheir pillows year? Simply answered, no.and We can't. We won't. There must be more to these peoplemattresses, a than ATM machines and cable t.Jevision. More to themfederal than e-mail forums and fire side chats. AndoHense, there is. We found them, we asked them.else might 20 Questions. Things you really want tothey be know. Things you real­ly care about. Things
capable of?" 

that could just make or 
break who you vote for. 
The answers might astound 
you. They could just amaze 

you. They'll definitely surprise you. 
Question 1? Easy enough. "What is your favorite Ben & Jerry's Ice Cream flavor?" There was no agreement on this one folks. Not even amongst platforms. Klau-Herczeg went for Chunky-Monkey and Chocolate Peanut Butter Cookie Dough, respectively. Patrick-McCarthy? Cherry Garcia and plain ol' standby fave, Cookie Dough. Larissa couldn't answer question 2, "Boxers or Briefs ?", but our male candidates were all unanimous in their preference for boxers. 
Question 3, "Seinfeld or Letterman?" Here's where a strange phenomena began. Larissa went for Seinfeld. The guys, Letterman. Larissa would later diverge from her male counterparts on such questions as "Cowboy boots or penny loafers?" (Cowboy boots). "Favorite Jackson?" (She chose Jermaine, as compared to a harmonious preference for Tito among J.P., Dennis, and Kevin.) And, get this, when asked, "Have you ever torn the tags off your pillows or mattresses?", Larissa was the only one who said "No." This could mean we have three criminals on our hands, everyone. If they'll pull the tags off their pillows and mattresses, a federal offense, what else might they be capable of? 
Herczeg's answer to, "Who's your favorite Brady?", was the only non-human response-Tiger the dog. Klau chose Cindy, while McCarthy and Patrick both went for an older, more mature woman, 
Alice. Larissa was also the only candidate who, when asked, "Do you shower at night 
or in the morning?", chose night. 
We'll all admit to being unhappy with the dining hall. What better way to improve the overall quality of the food and atmosphere of our eating facilities than to make our future Student Body Government officers aware of their own likes and dis­''All likes? J.P. and Kevin, when asked, "What's your favorite din­candidates ing hall theme meal?", both agreed Circus Lunch had to be voiced the best. We might have to work on Dennis a little, preference though. For him, every night 
for
is his favorite night. He answered, strangely enough, Captain"All-you-can-eat-night." Most would assume that every Kangaroonight is all you can eat night at Dennis' dining locale of choice, over Mister North Dining Hall. Hopefully, he hasn't been leaving with Rogers." more than two pastries or two pieces of fruit. That combined llustrations by David Bregande with the mattress incident could mean we have a hardened criminal on our hands. A great dislike 
for seafood of all forms was voiced by three of the four candidates; J.P. answered "Monte Cristo 
Sandwich" to "What is your least favorite dining hall meal?" while the rest of the candidates chose 
Mississippi fried catfish, filet of sole, and shrimp poppers. With a little teeth pulling, we managed to 
wrangle everyone's favorite yo cream flavor out of them. The guys, however, were a little reluctant 
to admit to having a favorite. Eventually, Kevin professed a love of Irish Mint, Dennis for Coconut, 
and J.P. for Country Vanilla. Larissa strayed from the group and went wild and crazy with her 
choice...Peanut Butter and Chocolate Swirl. 

All candidates voiced preference for Captain Kangaroo over Mister Rogers. But things got really weird when we asked, "If you were a Muppet, which one would you be?" Get this, Kevin and Dennis both were born under the sign of Taurus. And they both answered "Beeker" to this question. And it gets even better. They both-Klau and McCarthy-chose Ringo for "Who's your favorite Beatie?" Coincidence or psychic phenomena? You tell us. We think the similarities are just getting a little too weird. Maybe two certain people have the wrong running mates. Maybe two people were separated at birth. Maybe we're just getting a little too into this. Nab... 
Twenty questions and four candidates later, we were starting to resemble our favorite Muppets and decided to call it a night. It was time to review the data, and as you might have noticed, the results amused us, they scared us, and they made us think. So it's up to you. Should you go for Beeker and the Sweedish Chef (Klau-Herczig) or Beeker and Gonzo (McCarthy-Patrick)? Who works better together? A Taurus and a Pisces (Kevin and Larissa) or a Taurus and a Scorpio? Will Ringo make a comeback? Will Tito have a new album coming out sometime in the near future? You decide. 
Friday, February 10, 1995 


-~~~would you do if 
..~··le dStu4ent Btdy resident? · 

0 Make every night at South Dining Hall a five course extravaganza." 
Jim Boyle Sophomore Dillon Hall 

McDonald's on campus." 
Erin O'Neill Senior Off-Campus 

0 Get GLND/SMC recog­nized as a university group." 
Rahman Harris Grad Student Fisher Grad 

"Not only get rid of the alcohol policy, but place a bar in every dorm." 
Mark Naman Senior Off Campus 


David De~ern Sophomore Flonner 

~ F,iday, Fobma'l' 1 0, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• BASEBAll 
Major league strike taking its toll on the minors 
By HOWARD ULMAN 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 

It's a traditionally American scene: twilight on Cape Cod, college baseball players watched by old scouts, summer picnickers in lawn chairs down the foul lines. 
A player could hit a few homers and maybe get noticed by a big-league team. Fans who felt like leaving after the fifth inning to catch a movie did so. No big deal. They didn't have to pay to watch the game. 
Behind the scenes, however, the pieture is changing. 
The far-reaching effects of the baseball strike pitting millionaire owners against mil­lionaire players have hit the Cape Cod Baseball League, a summer training ground for collegians, some of them future major-leaguers. 
It will reeeive only $40,000 from Major League Baseball Inc. this year -less than one­third of its $125,000 budget ­eompared with last summer's $85,000 contribution, according to league president Judy Walden Scarafile. 
The organization, operated by all 28 major league teams, lost its main revenue source when the strike foreed cancellation of the World Series, said George Pfister, its supervisor of base­ball operations. 
"It's not that we want to do this," he said of the cuts. "We were forced to do this." 
Seven years ago, Cape League fans watched youngsters Frank Thomas and Jeff Bagwell, who went on to become the majors' most valuable players last sea­son. Now they are on strike. 
This summer, when fans are asked for donations -as often happens when they enter the ballpark -their generosity 

might be appreciated even more. 
The amateur league has started a fund-raising drive, "Preserve The Tradition." Scarafile said the league "absolutely" will raise the $45,000 shortfall and she is confident it will survive. 
But the full-time pharmacist and part-time travel agent is devoting even more time than normal to what she calls "an 80-hour-a-week volunteer job." 
"It's a passion. It gets in your blood and it becomes just a big part of your life," said Scarafile, who started in the league 26 years ago as a score­keeper. "I will do everything to make this fund-raising effort work." 
Major League Baseball Inc. provides money for the 10-team Cape League and nine other summer leagues around the country. It funds such programs as American Legion and Babe Ruth baseball, which also suf­fered cuts. 
The organization stopped funding four summer leagues entirely and cut back on six others. Pfister said all will con­tinue to operate. Scarafile said an end to the strike won't help her this year, since the income from last year's canceled World Series already has been lost. 
"We are still very grateful for the $40,000," she said. 
She said there is little fat in the league's $125,000 budget. She estimated that $20,000 goes for balls, $20,000 for bats, $40,000 for umpires, about $9,000 for printing and the rest for miscellaneous items. 
Individual teams pay for transporting players from around the eountry, field main­tenance, lighting costs, uni­forms and equipment not pro­vided by the league. Each team plays 44 games from early June to early August. 
The cutback "could have a very severe impact" on teams if they have to absorb costs usual­ly assumed by the league, said Dennis Butts, general manager of the Bourne Braves. 
Players are not paid but are offered summer jobs. They pay host families for room and board. There is competition for their services within the league. Richer teams might provide a roundtrip plane ticket, while teams with lower budgets might only pay one way, Butts said. 
"This whole league is very well-scouted. That's the draw for the players to come here," Butts said. "We don't want to see that association dimin­ished." 
Scarafile said baseball on Cape Cod began about 110 years ago, although not as an organized league for collegians. In the mid-1960s, the league eame under NCAA jurisdiction. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
HEY SOPHOMORES ......... . 
Looking for that great service pro­ject that makes a huge difference, and is still a lot of fun? Look no further! 
THE SOPHOMORE CLASS SERVICE PROJECT 
Youth Mentoring (serving as role models for under-privileged kids)at the Northeast Neighborhood Center 
FRIDAYS 2:30-4:30, or anytime in between. Meet at Main Circle or 161 Alumni Hall. Questions? Call Brian x1 058. 
BLACKBERRY EATING I love to go out in late September among the fat,overipe,icy black blackberries to eat blackberries for breakfast, the stalks very prickly. a penalty they earn for knowing the black art of blackberry-making; and as I stand among them lifting the stalks to my mouth, the ripest berries fall almost unbidden to my tongue, as words sometimes do, certain peculiar words like strengths or squinched, many-lettered,one-syllabled lumps, which I squeeze, squinch open, and splurge well in the silent, startled, icy, black lan­guage of blackberry-eating in late September. Galway Kinnell from Mortal Acts, Mortal Words, 1980 Hesburgh Auditorium,Feb.16,8pm 
Sketch Comedy -HA Want to LAUGH at your peers, profs and school? Go ahead. When you're done, come see Humor Artists Library Auditorium Fri. Feb 10th Bpm FREEIII 
TREK-A-THON Cushing Auditorium Thurs-9/11 Fri + Sat-8/1 030 pm 
Thurs-Star Trek 2-Wrath of Khan Fri-Star Trek 4-Voyage Home Sat-Star Trek 6-Undiscovered 
Country 

brought by SUB 
Used Texts Cheapll Check out Pandora's Books 233-2342 ND ave & Howard st 10-6m-sat 9-3 sundays 
Come to the Saint Mary's Observer Office to place your classifieds Mo'nday 2-4, Tuesday 
2:30-4:30, Wednesday 11:30-1:00, Thursday 2:30-4:30, and Friday· 2-4. 
OFF CAMPUS HOUSING 
Open House 2-4 p.m. Saturday, February 17 and Sunday, February 18, 1995 
Oakhill Condos Corner Edison and State Road 23 
Priced at $54,900-$99,900. The perfect solution for your Notre Dame/St. Mary housing dilemma. Own your own Condo-Home. 1-3 Bedrooms, all Appliances, Fireplace, Pool and Clubhouse. For information call: Coldwell Banker Missy Bornheimer 259-6317/235­3180 Ruth Ann Smith 277-8000/235­3250 
ILOST & FOUND I 
Found: ...BIKE LOCK KEY**• On 
2/3/95 
brand name is "Rhode Gear". 
-Bill X1862 
Holy Kodak Batman I 
I Lost a role of 11 0 film on Friday 
Feb.3, 95 probably in the area 
around or inside 
LaFortune/J.A.C.C. 
call Wally at 4-3675 
FOUND: Gold chain' with interesting shaped pendant in DBTL week of Jan. 30. Call John x1-7485 
I LOST A PAIR OF GREEN AND BLACK PRESCRIPTION EYE GLASSES IN A RED CASE, IF FOUND PLEASE CALL JENN AT X1460. THANKS. 
I LOST A PAIR OF BLACK CASH­MERE GLOVES, IF FOUND PLEASE CALL JENN AT X1460. 
REWARD OFFERED for KEYS lost somewhere between C1 and the Rock. Please call 232-1348. 
A week ago thrusday morning between the stadium parking lot and Decio faculty hall, someone picked up a dark green smoke case which had a solid brass lighter in it with my initials CTL on the outside. They were both gifts I would like to have returned. If you are looking for a reward please call 1-4507 otherwise would you please turn them in to the campus lost and found, they do not belong to you I Thank you. 
LOST FOSSIL MAN'S WATCH. BLACK AND GOLD FACE. POSSIBLY BY TURTLE CREEK APT. REWARD. ADAM 4-4332. 
I'm still missing my rings. I really really really would love my class back. Any info, call Kenya x4-3711. 


WANTED 
Spring Breakl Bahamas Party 

Cruise 6 Days $279! Includes 12 
Meals & 6 Free Parties! Great 
Beaches & Nightlife! A HUGE 

Partyl Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights 
Air & Hotel From $4291 Spring 
Break Travel 1-800-678-6386 

Florida's Spring Break Hotspots! 
PANAMA CITY OCEANVIEW 
ROOM WITH KITCHEN $129! 

WALK TO BEST BARS I Cocoa 
Beach (Near Disney)-27 acre 

Deluxe Beachfront Resort 7 Nights 
$1591 Key West $229! Daytona 
Room with Kitchen From $1291 1­
800-678-6386 

Spring Breakl Panama Cityl 8 Days 
Oceanview Room with a Kitchen 
$1291 Walk to best barsllncludes 
Free Discount Card which will save 
you $1 00 on food/drinksl 1-800­.678-6386 
Painters, Foremen, and Managers­Call College Pro Painters at 1 (800) 346-4649. 
two need ride-MEMPHIS, spr. 
break,$, x1943 


FOR RENT 
Wanted: 

5 students for completely remod­
eled home. Close to N.D. large rec. 
room, washer and dryer, security 
system. Rent for summer school 
and/or fall semester. Call NOW 
277-0636 
HOMES FOR RENT 
NEAR CAMPUS 
232-2595 

1, 2, & 3 BDRM HOMES NEAR CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW & NEXT FALL. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272­6551 
LIVE IN A GOOD NEIGHBOR­
HOOD FURNISHED HOMES 
NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT 

SCHOOL YEAR IDEAL FOR 3-8 
STUDENTS 2773091 


FOR SALE 

One rdtp. ticket to Ft. Lauderdale. Leaving 3/11, ret. 3/18. Must sell. $250 or best offer. Call X3704. 
CONDO NEAR NOTRE DAME 

Immaculate Condo with the latest 
decor and sharper than new. Call 
Harold Zeltwanger 291-9338 or 
ERA All Star Realty 255-8789. 

'84 RENULTE ENCORE, 69,000 
MILES, 5-SPEED. $450. 
631-6521. 

OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered at $85,900. First floor location. Finished basement with full lavato­ry. Two bedrooms and two baths on ground level. Lease back to owner through May, 1995. Call (616)946-0700. 
WALKTOND! 
3 bdrm, 1 bath ranch. New carpet­
ing, paint & furnace. Family room 
plus rec room with bar. $56,000. 
OPEN SAT., 2/18 FROM 2-4 PM. 
1215 N. Twyckenham 
Barb McHugh 
Coldwell Banker 
277-8000,235-3240. 
MACINTOSH COMPUTER for sale. Complete system only $499. Call Chris at 800-289-5685. 


TICKETS 
NEED BASKETBALL TIX FOR 
MARQUETTE GAMElII CALL 
MARTY 277-2710 
$NEED 2 PETTY TIX 
BRIAN @x1817 $$$ 
Marquette GAs needec:j Contact Bryon -1042 
NEED KENTUCKY TIX (GA'S 
PREFFERED) CALL DAN M. AT 
234-6843. 
FREE$BEER$FREE$BEER$FREE 
Now that I've got your attention: : I NEED ONE KENTUCKY GA CALL MATT at x2153. BEER$FREE$BEER$FREE$BEER 
NEED 2 TOM PETTY TIX WILL PAY TOP$$ BEN X2301 
Badly need Kentucky tickets 272-8059. 
NEED 1·2 PETTY TIX CALL LISA 2364 
WANTED: 6 Tickets to Tom Petty DESPERATEI!III Please Call Mary Jane @ 271-0224 
HELPIIII I NEED UK TIX-STD OR GA. 233-5130-ASK FOR ANYONE EXCEPT FOR GARY GROUPER. 


PERSONAL 
ROSES ARE RED VIOLETS ARE BLUE THE OBSERVER HAS A SPECIAL OFFER FOR YOU 
VALENTINE'S DAY is quickly approaching and now is the time to place a classified ad for your valen­tine. All Valentine's Day ads will appear in a SPECIAL Valentine's classified section of The Observer on Tuesday, February 14. 
You may place your classified Monday through Friday from Bam to 3pm. We are located on the third floor of Lafortune. Place your ad now and beat the rush! 

ADOPTION-A LOVING CHOICE. We're blessed with financial securi­ty and a Dalmatian! Mid-Western couple, stay-at-home mom. Allowable expenses paid. 800-440­6024 Tracy & Doug 
CASINO NIGHT IS BACKI 
Friday, Feb. 10, 1995 
Get to know a Knott Angell 
This year you need 
to get on The List. 
PW-PW-PW-PW-PW-PW-PW 
P.W Carnation Sale 
Buy a flower for that special some­
one. 
Red-I love you 
Pink-You're snazzy 
Yellow-Friendship White-I want to get to know you ... 
Green-??? 
Feb. 6-Feb. 10 at Lunch and 
Dinner at NDH and SDH. 
PW-PW-PW-PW-PW-PW-PW-PW 
SPRING BREAK 
MARCO ISLAND, FL. BEACH 
FRONT 2 BEDROOM CONDO, 
CABLE, POOL, JACUZZI. FRONT 
BALCONY OVERLOOKS WHITE SANDY BEACH. OWNER DIS­COUNT. 212-474-1414 
Help-I'm still looking for my rings, 
my class ring especially. Any info call Kenya 4-3711. 
Chicken Lady loves life. x4634 
Desperately seeking ride to Padre for Spring Break. Will split gas and tolls in exchange. Call Bridget at x2702. 
HEY YOU! Ready to lose weight for 
real? I lost over 20 lbs., went from a size 9 to a 3 in under 8 weeks! No diets/drugs/exercisel All-Natural Tablets: guaranteed results! Kelly (800)209-2150 
ATTN: ACTORS/ACTRESSES Student in directing class needs you for periodic in-class and out-of­class projects this semester. If you have MWF from 1:15-2:05 free (and some additional time) and are inter­ested, call Mike at 4-3597 and leave your name and number. All help will be appreciated. Thanks. 
DESPARATEL Y NEEDED: Ride to Pittsburgh on March 3rd for weekend. Please help. Call Laurie at x4096 -Thank You! 
Volunteer to be a dealer at Knott's Casino Night this Friday ... for an hour of your time you get in without a ticket. 
Call Theresa at X4708 
"She is a flower with psychic antennae and a tinsel heart." Please, what is your name? JK 
Top Quotes from the United Nations of Benetton Caravan to Bloomington via Chicago 
1) Chinatown, random guy to Mona: "Do I know you from somewhere? Mona: "No" Guy: "Can I have two dollars? My brother's in jail. 
2) Go right...Aghhhl 
3) Wind up the lights. 
4) Condoms are electronically test­ed? 
5) ISU at 1am Bloomington: "Maybe Notre Dame isn't that bad." 
6) Cat n' Jammers 
7) Tia, do you need to call your friend again? 
8) Are you In high school? 
9) Araceli, don't duck... this isn't El Paso I 
10) My skin is falling off, do you have a dollar? 
11) Heartland Comm. College? Where are my transfer papers? 
12) Pass the toilet paperll 
13) Scott, hide between the doorsl 
14) What is this? Corn Flakes or fried ice cream? 
15) How did I get a bean in my sweater? 
16) Oh, you mean there are many toilets? 
THE BIG EARL BAND LIVE-FRIDAY NIGHT @Club 23 "It's time to get yer ya-yas out" 
Hey dudes in 1 04 Sarin­Give us another Miller High Life, and later we'll break through to Papa John'sl Love your favorite SMCers 
Kiddo, Hope the midterms went well, remember they're your last set, you · buml -An lllinios Farmer 
Candygram Sales sponsored by AFROTC $1.00each Send them to your friends, or that special someone. Diamonds are forever, but candygrams are just for today ... Buy them on Sat & Sun 11th & 12th both Dining Halls at lunch & dinner. Delivery to dorms on the Big Day. LOVE IS IN THE AIR 
Hey, Bra, have the goddesses been phone callers? How 'bout e-mail doers.? Love that. 
Yo-cream Addicts Anonymous meeting: 11pm, Tonight in room 328 Grace. Be there, or be roundl 
Dei­
"Our dance may be over, ·now the fun begins" (Skakespear) No bitterness, no anger, just friends. Call me. 
Rob 

~-­
1 page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February 10, 1995 
I I •NBA
I 
I 
I Orlando exceeds expectations 
I I 
By FRED GOODALL being here when things were so Brian Hill will coach the East, Associated Press rough," Scott said after but is already thinking aboutI Wednesday night's victory the tough road that lies ahead 
I ORLANDO, Fla. 
maintained Orlando's 6 1/2-in the second half of the season. I For the Orlando Magic, the game lead over the New York. ''I'm confident that as long asI proof is in the record. Knicks in the Atlantic Division. we stay healthy we will be a 
While the team's 37-10 mark "But I don't think guys like good basketball team. But at the All-Star break hasn't Nick and myself are going to be whether that'll reflect in our proven Shaquille O'Neal and complacent, thinking 'OK, record is another matter," Hill Co. are capable of handling the we've won 37 games. Now let's said. 
pressure of the NBA playoffs, it let up.' We have a chance to With O'Neal leading the nevertheless is the best start in really make something happen. league in scoring (29. 7 points .:!. the Eastern Conference. We really want to try and keep per game) and Hardaway (20. 7) :~ "You .can't ask for anything it going." teaming with him to form the .~ better than that," said Nick The five-day break comes at a NBA's highest scoring tandem, ~~ Anderson, who knows what it's good time for the Magic, who the Magic have been nearly 
... like to be at the opposite end of have been hobbled by injuries. invisible at home. The club's the standings. 
Anderson (sprained wrist) and 23-1 record at Orlando Arena is Anderson was the first player 
Horace Grant (sore back) were the best home mark in the selected by the expansion disappointed at being left off league.Magic in the 1989 draft. He the Eastern Conference All­The off-season acquisition of 
remembers lean times, like los­Stars, but could use the rest. Grant, who helped the Chicagoing 31 of the last 34 games that They sat out all or part of Bulls win three world champi­first season and being dubbed losses to Seattle and Indiana onships, and improvement of -~ the "Orlando Tragic." last week before returning to Anderson, who has developed a 11 That's why it's especially sat­help the Magic beat the Knicks reliable jump shot and is av­~ isfying to him and Dennis Scott, and stop the only two-game los­eraging nearly 17 points, also ~ the team's first-round pick in ing streak Orlando has had this have been instrumental in the 
~ 1990, to be 10 games ahead of strong start. 
Observer File Photo 

~ the pace the club set last year "Every championship team 
~ in winning a franchise-record has a good bench with players Former Notre Dame star Donald Royal has developed into an impor­:;;1 1 50 games. that can come off and make tant part of the NBA-Ieading Orlando Magic. "It's great, particularly after something happen." said Scott. 
Barkley tones it down as he ages 
By MEL REISNER still competitive, but we all ronment," Ainge said. "But ksociated Press grow as time goes on, so I'd say Charles was a great guy back he mellowed a little bit." then; I remember how fun he 
Happy 2Dibll
PHOENIX Barkley, who turns 32 this was to play against. He was a 

Some people think Charles month, has been selected for funny, jovial guy on the court Barkley has mellowed in this 

his ninth straight All-Star and said funny things to the laid-back town. Some don't 
game. Fans have voted him to refs and the opposing players. 
We bepc ya1 spc•y•r

think he ever needed to. 
start seven times. He was the The negative stuff is blown out Barkley, frequently in hot wa­top vote.-getter last year, when of proportion when you're los­
day dlillall,••,

ter before getting here, lists an injury kept him from play-ing."
himself among the latter. 
ing, and this season he out-Barkley has been in several raverilc tbinp.polled all other West forwards. bar scuffles in Arizona, once 
"I don't know if I've mel­He should play Sunday pouring beer on a woman's lowed," he said. ''I'm just a 

despite an eye injury suffered head after she tore up his auto­strong-minded, strong-willed Wednesday night. Utah's Tom graph. In each case, witnesses LIYC. 
person, but I think my person­Chambers hit Barkley while try-told investigators the accusers 
.-.au..-..llac.

ality was greatly exaggerated in ing to block a shot shortly provoked the incidents. 
Philadelphia. If you ask me a .....P.IRIICicLII
before halftime and the Suns 

question, I'm probably going to 
star did not return. He had 

tell you the truth. That's just 
some double vision but the in-

the way it is." 
jury was not deemed serious. 

Teammate and frequent golf­ing companion Danny Ainge, 
Ainge said Barkley's dark 

whom Barkley credits with 
side was overpublicized during talking him out of retiring last his days in Philadelphia -all summer, sees both sides. 

the more so because the 76ers 







Love Bites
"I think everybody gets mel­

never reached the NBA Finals lower to a certain extent," afterBark~isrook~season. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ainge said. "I don't think that 
"He seems more popular be­

means he's lost an edge. He's cause he's in a winning envi-
Join us for olook of love: true, unrequited ond iust down right sick. There will be free popcorn, soda and Valentine's Day cookies. All of this is brought to you by the Office of Student Activities. 

liE f10RRIS INN 
Of NOTRE D411E 
"
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 46556 


"Be ASweetheart" 

8:00 When a Man Loves Valentine's Day 
a Woman 
Dinner Specialsfor two 

Tuesday, Feb. 14 
10:00 Jagged Edge 


Dinner from 5:30p.m.-8:30p.m. 



12:00 Four Weddings
Enjoy a dining experience in 


and a Funeral
the true spirit of Notre Dame 
For reservations call 

631-2020 2:00 Fatal Attraction 


,--­
Friday, February 1 0, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
•NHL 


Devils roll to win over defending champions 
Associated Press 
Defenseman Bruce Driver set up three goals to lead the New Jersey Devils to a 4-1 win over the New York Rangers on Thursday night in their first meeting since their seven-game Eastern Conference final last season. 
While there was little at stake early in the season, the game was as entertaining and as closely played as last year's se­ries which the Rangers won in the second overtime of the sev­enth game. 
This game was similiar to Game 6, the one Mark Messier guaranteed a Rangers' win with New York trailing the series 3­games-to-2. 
Just like that game, New Jersey jumped to a 2-0 lead. Scott Niedermayer and Claude Lemieux scored power-play goals 1:38 apart on Driver se­tups, but the Devils had trouble getting a third goal by Rangers goalie Mike Richter, who had at least five good saves in the sec­ond period. 
Brian Noonan revived hopes of another Rangers' comeback by converting in close against Martin Brodeur on a power­play setup by Messier just 38 seconds into the third period. 


However, this time there would be no three goals by Messier and a 4-2 win. 
Adam Graves came close to tying it on a rebound midway through the period and Brian Leetch and Graves were denied in close by Brodeur with 7:45 to play. 
With the Rangers still press­ing, Bobby Holik broke out of the Devils' zone after Sergei Zubov was trapped and beat Richter with a slapshot from the left faceoff circle with 6:39 to go. Tom Chorske added an­other breakaway goal with 4:23 left. 
Brodeur finished with 27 saves in recording the Devils first regular-season win over the Rangers in two years. New York won all six regular-season games last year. 
New Jersey is now 3-0-1 at home this year. 
Richter had 29 saves as the Rangers saw their three-game (2-0-1) unbeaten streak end. 
New Jersey, which had con­verted on only 2 of 27 extra­man chances in its first eight games, connected on its first two against New York. 
Panthers 3, Flyers 0 
John Vanbiesbrouck made 26 saves as the Florida Panthers handed the Philadelphia Flyers their second straight 3-0 shutout loss Thursday night. 
The Flyers, who traded Mark Recchi for three Montreal Canadiens earlier in the day, were shut out 3-0 in Ottawa Monday night. The Senators and the Panthers have a com­bined record of 5-13-3. 
The last time Philadelphia was shut out in back-to-hack 
SENIORS** ** Your issue of The ALUMNI Newsletter is in the mail. Brini! your comPleted ballot to the Alumni Office. 20 I Main Buildin!! and Pick uP a bit of senior-Year memorabilia! Be sura to vote for the At-Large position ­This director will represent you on the national Alumni Board as new Notre Dame alumni. Voting ends March 15. Stop in the Alumni Office soon!  

games was in 1973, when the Flyers lost 3-0 in Los Angeles on Oct. 20 and 4-0 in Montreal on Oct. 25. 
Dave Lowry, Stu Barnes and Gord Murphy scored for the Panthers, who recorded their first shutout of the season. 
The Panthers scored their goals in the first 11 1/2 minutes of the game. The Flyers, who were outshot 18-7 in the pe­riod, mustered few real scoring chances even-strength or on four'power plays. 
Penguins 5, Islanders 2 
The Pittsburgh Penguins, led by Shawn McEachern's two goals, set a team record for their best start in a season with a 5-2 victory Thursday night over the New York Islanders. 
The Penguins, only unbeaten team in the NHL this season, improved their record to 9-0-1. 
Jaromir Jagr had a goal and three assists as the Penguins continued to win without many of their top players. Mario Lemieux, Tom Barrasso, Kevin Stevens and Luc Robitaille are out for a variety of reasons. 
Ken Wregget, who has played every minute in goal for the Penguins in Barrasso's ab­sence, stopped 32 shots. 
Jamie McLennan was in net 

a.~le .Jq,;~tudents~ faculty, and sta(~: Jte:nt skis, boots, and pr~les: No reservations neces­saryF'"Clteck out4:30-5:30 on T}lt1fsday and Friday.and 11:00 A~~4:00 PM on Saturday. Check il} 4:p0"$;30 on Friday and ~unday ~tnd 11:00 AM-2:00 PM on Saturday. For rates and more info call the Golf Shop at :{':6425 or JltJcSpprts at l-6100. 
BENGAL BOUTS • Training occQrs dally. at11 4:00 PM at the JACC. ii:Ailf().ne interested s}lould pl~ase,(cqntact Jeff 
g~q a(287-8041. · . 
.·... pgpY.CLUB • Spring I>.~ R~:r·'<;' coiltinues · on Wednesday, J<'ebrua,ry 8th al 
:.•.. .. ... :· . . . ::·.:.:f.::,t)<:'J~*~%!j:;.:;;;:1·h::=:.:·:·"-'" ··=··· 
for the Islanders, and turned aside 27 Pittsburgh chances. 
New York has lost four straight regular season games to the Penguins at Nassau Coliseum since a 4-2 win on Feb. 20, 1993. 
Pittsburgh capitalized on a second-period power-play op­portunity to take a 1-0 lead on Chris Joseph's slap shot from the point at at 3:30. The goal marked the ninth time in 10 Islander games that they have allowed the first goal. 
Ray Ferraro tied the game when he picked up a loose puck at the blue line and cut in alone on Wregget. Ferraro's stuff attempt hit Wregget's stick shaft and rolled into the net. 
McEachern then gave Pittsburgh a lead they would not relinquish at 13:57, pounc­ing on a loose puck in the left crease and one-timing a tO­footer in the short side. 
Jagr clinched the game at 
1:03 of the final period, skating out untouched from behind the net and jamming the puck be­tween McLennan's pads. McEachern then tapped in Jagr's feed at 3:46, and Ron Francis scored on his own re­bound at 14:29. Ferraro's sec­ond breakaway goal at 17:46 only closed the gap to three goals. 
9:30. If you have any questions call Brendan at 234-8276 or Mike at 4-2289. 
CLIMBING WALL SCHEDULE 
• The climbing wall is now open for use. The hours will be Sundays 2:00-5:00 and Tuesdays and Thursdays from 7:00-10:00. The climbing wall is located in the Rockne Memorial and anyone inter­ested in using it must attend an orientation session. For more info call RecSports at 1-6100. 
SPORTS TALK· This Sunday at 7:30pm on WVFI 640 AM: Irish Men's Basketball co-cap­tain Lamarr Justice. Call in with your questions and com­menta at 1-6400. 


CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 & 9:45 
.------.. -----~------------­
--~ 
page 18 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, February 10, 1995 
_.... 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 

The Observer/ Brian Hardy Cherokee Parks' sixteen points led Duke to a seven-point upset win over the 18th-ranked Yellow Jackets of Georgia Tech last night. 
Duke pulls off upset 
DAVID DROSCHAK 
Associated Press 
DURHAM, N.C. 

Duke broke out of its month­long slump Thursday night, snapping a nine-game Atlantic Coast Conference losing streak by finally hanging on down the stretch to beat No. 18 Georgia Tech 77-70. 
The Blue Devils (11-11, 1-9 ACC) were on the verge of win­ning twice in the last two weeks, falling to No. 1 North Carolina and No. 8 Maryland by two points each. This time around the Blue Devils got key baskets by freshmen Trajan Langdon and Ricky Price in a span of 20 seconds as Duke cooled off the ACC's hottest team. 
The Yellow Jackets (15-7, 6­

4) had won three straight conference games by an aver­age of 17.3 points without lead­ing scorer and rebounder James Forrest, who is sidelined with a broken hand. 
But after storming back from an 11-point second-half deficit to take a 68-67 lead with 2:35 left on an eight-footer by Travis Best, the Yellow Jackets com­mitted two turnovers that cost them the game. 
Langdon hit a 15-foot jumper after Best's shot, but then Best, who scored 25 points, threw 
Bed 'N Breakfast 
Registry 
Rooms in private homes for: 
JPW, BLUE & GOLD, GRADUATION. FOOTBALL, FRESHMEN ORIENTATION 
and other special ND-SMC events 
(219)291-7153 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used books bou~i1t and sold 

• 
25 categories o Books 



I • 25 ,COJ Hardback and Paperback books in stock 
• 
Out-of-Print Search Service: $200 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 
1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219)232-8444 
the ball away on Georgia Tech's next possession. That turnover led to Price's short banker for a 71-68 Duke lead. 
Duke, the worst free-throw shooting team in the league, made four straight foul shots over the next 19 seconds to seal the win. 
Cherokee Parks led Duke, which avoided losing in Cameron Indoor Stadium for a fifth straight time, with 16 points and 10 rebounds. 
By JIM O'CONNELL 
Associated Press 
The Atlantic 10 will have 12 schools next season, five of them first-year members after Virginia Tech, Dayton and La Salle officialy joined the confer­ence on Thursday. 
The three newcomers join fel­low rookies Xavier, and Fordham in a league that has gone from a questionable future months ago a to a solid basketball conference that will reach a number of major televi­sion markets. 
"Our athletic directors identi­fied these three institutions as what we are and where we want to be as we head into the future," Atlantic 10 commis­sioner Linda Bruno said. "We are excited and we will get much better." 
West Virginia and Rutgers will leave the current nine­team league after this season to join the Big East. When that move was announced last year, many thought Massachusetts and Temple, the conference's linchpins as far as basketball was concerned, would consider leaving. 
Instead, the Atlantic 10 added five schools and appears solid heading into next season. 
"There were always options for us," Bruno said. "The first scenario was 'don't do any­thing,' and we had said all along we weren't in a rush unless the right schools were available. At no time did we get locked into a set number. We were worried about quality not quantity. We got the best of 


Banquet rooms 

Szechuan • Cantonese • American 
available for 

Chinese Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 days 
up to 200 

Sunday Buffet Brunch • Every Sunday $8.95 for Adults f r hil 
DMB&B 

D'Arcy Masius Benton & Bowles Worldwide 
both worlds now with a num­ber that's workable and we filled out our conference with quality programs." 
Bruno said the league will be split into two divisions and keep the name despite the dis­crepancy in numbers. 
'The athletic directors have decided divisions is the way to go," she said. "We have not begun to approach how we will divide and what format we will use. We will meet in the next few weeks as we wanted to wait until these three schools were aboard to be part of that process." 
The three newcomers were all facing being without a con­ference after recent moves, although Virginia Tech and La Salle both opted for the Atlantic 10 over other leagues. 

1995-96 Members 
*DaytonDuquesne *Fordham George Washington 
*La Salle Massachusetts Rhode Island St. Bonnaventure St. Joseph's Temple 
*Virginia Tech *Xavier 
* New Members 
The 

Fondue Parlor 
Taste the Aroma ofRomance 


Perfect for Valentines Day Come &enjoy our new specials! 
Next Friday, February 17: Kareoke from 9:00-12:00 p.m. 
Upper Level-Old Brewery 100 Center, Mishawaka 255-1526  Tues-Thurs 5-9 p.m. Fri-Sat 5-10 p.m. Reservation Suggested  
II~ppy :a•s~ :UI.:r-thd..~y ~ftJ:ry ~~  



RECRUITMENT NEWS -SPRING 1995 
DMB&B is a major international advertising and communications agency looking for graduating seniors of all majors to join their Professional Development Program (PDP). Opportunities exist primarily in the DMB&B Bloomfield Hills, Michigan office. 
Clients at this office include Cadillac and Pontiac automobiles, FTD Florists, GM Gold Card, GM Good wrench, Dow Chemicals, The American Plastics Council, and more... 
If you are interested in learning more about the Professional Development Program at DMB&B: Attend the DMB&B presentation Wednesday, March 1, at 6:30pm in the Alumni Room of the Morris Inn. If you missed intetview sign-ups, don't worry. Bring a resume and any questions you have to the presentation. 

~--------------------------------------------------------------------~-------~l 
Friday, February 10, 1995 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
-

)bu mayreco · heras an outstanding athlete, student 
orleader.We're recognizing herfor it all. 

Haley Scott, Inspirational 
llniversity ofNotre Dame 
,. 

She's made a name for hersel£ In her sport. And at her school. Which is why she's been chosen as a Honda Award winner by vote ofover 800 NCM member schools. For her athletic success as well as her leadership abilities, academic performance and 
community involvement. In honor of her hard work, Honda will make a donation .. to her school's general scholarship fund. It's yet another accomplishment to add to her list. 
.. 

Cl Jll'l-1 Amcm·Jn I lunda \lmur Cu., lm. 
; --------~-------­
-----------~---~-------------~--~­
page 20 
The Observer • SPORTS 


• fENCING
-

Slumping fencers travel to Duke to face the best 
By JOE VILLINSKI 
Spons Writer 
Heading into the last match of the regular season, the men's fencing team find themselves treading some uncharted wa­ter. 
The Irish have now lost two matches for the first time in twelve years and wish to avoid taking the plunge for a third week in a row. 
"We're looking forward to going undefeated this week­end," junior foilist Paul Capobianco said. "And we're pretty confident we can ac­complish that goal." 
For the third straight week­end that goal will have to be ac­complished against some of the toughest competition in the NCAA. North Carolina, Duke, Stanford, and William & Mary headline the teams the men will be fencing on Saturday at Duke. 
"The captains are talking about making some minor changes in substitution after the first round," men's head coach Mike DeCicco. "However, things might change when we get down there." 
Stanford will challenge the Irish in foil, while North Carolina boasts solid epee and sabre squads. The two finished 17th and 19th respectively, in the overall at the NCAA cham­pionships last March. However, both squads failed to place any of the their weapons in the top eight. 
The Cardinals also possess one of the most dangerous fencers in the NCAA in Sean McClain. Right now, he ranks as the No. 1 junior fencer in the United States. 
Rebounding against this cal­iber of competition will not be easy, but the Irish look to gain momentum before the Midwest Fencing Team Championships in two weeks. 
"The captains are putting un­due pressure on themselves," DeCicco said. "They just have to go out and fence the way they know how and everything will take care of itself." 
"We need to get past the last year's national championship, set some new goals, and do what we need to do to reach those goals," sophomore sabre­man Bill Lester added. 
While the men struggle to fmd their winning ways again, the women continue to roll as they moved their record to 17-0 last weekend. In doing so, the Irish set a new mark for the all­time consecutive win streak which now stands at 46 for the fence North Carolina, Duke, Stanford, and James Madison in Durham. 

"We're going into the meet positively," freshman foilist Amee Appel said. "Coach said there isn't anybody we should be scared of." 
As the WQmen put their unde­feated streak on the line, they do so brimming with confidence after last weekend's victory 
st Princeton. 
were forced to rally against the Tigers as the epee lost 11-5. 
Just as in previous weeks the other team was there to step it up a notch as the foil team reeled off twelve victories to down Princeton 17-15. 
If one match sums up a sea­son, that one may have been the epitome of the women's. 
"They have got a nice chem­istry right now," DeCicco 

IIIWIIII'P-­HANDMADE UNISEX WOOL SWEATERS FROM GREECE COMING TO THE O'HARA LOUNGE FRIDAY IN WORTUNE. • As seen in Pier 1, Structure, L.L Bean, and J. Crew • Wholesale prices • limited quantities available • Guaranteed quality • Also Debuting: Solid Sterling Silver Jewelry from the Greek Islands  




~OBSERVER 
is now accepting applications for the 
1995-96 General Board 
Any foll-time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. Please submit a three page statement ofintent with a resume to john Lucas by Wednesday, Feb. 15 at 5 p.m. For questions about the application process or for more information about any position, call The Observer at 631-4541. 
NEWS EDITOR Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The News Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story and series ideas and is responsible for the content of the news section each day. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR Applicants should have editorial writing and editing skills and an ability to deal with the public. The Viewpoint Editor manages a staff of copy and layout editors and columnists and decides what letters will run each day. 
SPORTS EDITOR Applicants should have sports reporting, writing and editing skills. The Sports Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and special sections, arranges travel accommodations for reporting trips and is responsible for the content of the sports section each day. 
ACCENT EDITOR Applicants should have features writing and editing experience. The Accent Editor manages editors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas, and is responsible for the content of the Accent pages each day. 
PHOTO EDITOR Applicants should have photography and developing experience. The Photo Editor manages a staff of photographers and lab technicians and must work closely with News, Sports and Accent department editors in assigning pho­tographs. 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR Any full-time undergraduate student at Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. The editor manages Saint Mary's department heads, coordinates coverage with Notre Dame staff, generates story ideas on the Saint Mary's campus and is responsible for the Observer office at Saint Mary's. 
ADVERTISING MANAGER Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The Advertising Manager oversees an assistant and a staff of account executives and is responsible for generating advertising revenue. 
AD DESIGN MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of QuarkXpress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager oversees a staff of designers, works closely with advertising and marketing departments and is responsible for the design and layout of advertisements. 
PRODUCTION MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience, knowledge of QuarkXpress and design, layout and newspaper production experience. The Production Manager oversees a staff of night production designers and works closely with department staff on layout and design. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge of computer networking. The Systems Manager maintains and updates the Macintosh network and printers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system. 
OBSERVER MARKETING DIRECTOR Director will be responsible for generating new ideas and campaigns for advertis­ers. The marketing director will oversee one assistant and will work closely with Ad Design manager and account executives. Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and strong self-motivation. 
CONTROLLER Applicant must be a junior accounting major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. The Controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operating budget and taxes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and order transaction duties. 
~ 

Friday, February 10, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS 
• HOCKEY 

Cellar dwellers-look to climb 

By MICHAEL DAY 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team is on a mission. That's right, the 7-21-1 skaters have a quest in front of them this weekend. 
"At this point, our mission is not to finish last," said head coach Ric Schafer. 
Yes, that's what it has come to. When the 5-20-2 (3-17 in the CCHA) Ohio State Buckeyes visit tonight and Saturday at the Joyce Center Fieldhouse, cellar ownership apparently will be the only item in ques­tion. 
"It's been a tough season, no question," said junior right wing Brett Bruiniks. "But it would be a lot worse if we did-n't beat Ohio State this week­end." 
Despite entering the game having lost seven of their last eight games, Notre Dame should have no problem dis­patching of the struggling Buckeyes. The Irish looked strong at times last weekend against Miami, and OSU is com­ing off a pair of embarrassing defeats at the hands of Lake Superior State. 
Notre Dame's offense. once considered a weakness, has improved in recent weeks. Junior center Jamie Ling (37 points) and sophomore right wing Tim Harberts (25 points) have carried the load for much of the season, but Terry Lorenz 

Celebrate a friends birthday with a 

special Observer ad. 

I:In,ppy
...~.. 
:Ui_:r"'t,hdn,y, 
Amy 
o!ioliF:ri.ggi.II-
From, S•No:r-t;h 
Le~i.s 


~N Esp..d 


~ -'l. '" 

,W

domingo, 12 Febrero 1995 
10:00 a.m. 
Inner-City Youth Stanford-Keenan Hall 
Celebrante Padre James Heyd, esc 
All Are Welcome 

Todos Estan lnvitados 

@0PUS 
rvJNISTRY 

has emerged as a key contribu­tor. The sophomore left wing enjoyed the finest performance of his career against Miami, scoring four of the Irish's eight goals over the weekend. 
"Terry Lorenz is playing bet­ter than he has all year," said Schafer. "He really sparked the comeback against Miami." 
Defensively, the Irish could be in trouble. They gave up 13 goals in two games against the Redskins. and junior defense­man Garry Gruber will be side­lined with a knee injury. On the positive side, goaltender Matt Eisler continues to im­prove with experience, and backup Wade Salzman will be available if necessary. 
On the other side of the coin,_ the OSU offense is lead by ju­nior Randy Holmes (28 points) and senior Steve Richards (26 points). Juniors Tom Askey (.865 save pet.) and Kurt Brown (.876 save pet.) are expected to alternate at goaltender against the Irish. 
The last place team is forced to play Alaska-Fairbanks for the right to even participate in this year's CCHA playoffs, so there is something riding on this weekend's series other than pride and self respect. 
Although both teams have struggled all year long. the Irish do have the better defense and are playing at home. So unless Notre Dame falls on its face against the Buckeyes (knock on wood), this is one mission that should be accom­plished. 

Hoops 
continued from page 24 
be one of the most interesting aspects of tonight's game because neither will have the height advantage which they so frequently enjoy against most teams. 
"Both [Gaither and Schultz] play big in the lane and shoot great percentages," Sutherland said. "Schultz as a senior shows a lot of poise and doesn't make a lot of mistakes, but Tryna's athleticism allows her to do a lot more." 
Armington's antagonist will be Notre Dame's leading scor­er, Beth Morgan, who has scored double digits in all but three games in her entire Irish career. Last year's Most Valuable Player, conference newcomer of the year and play­
Francesco's Welcomes All Valentines on Valentine's 
Day. 
~=m~m:&256-I444 
SPECIALIZING IN ITALIAN CUISINE 
Southern Italian Cooking at Its Finest PreP.ared by Francesco and Family An Authentic Taste of Italy Most Romantic Place in South Bend and Mishawaka 
WELCOME JUMOR PARENTS! • WE NEED SERVERS! 
Hours  1213 LincolnWay West  
-Thu  4-10  Mishawaka  
Sat  4-ll closed  (Francesco was chef at ND for 30 years!)  

>­
...,--.,, 
..J...; 
(l_ 
• Same day processing on·-···<( all E-6 color slide films in
....::;~.~;. ' :., 
. •, . 
by noon 

• Creation of 35mm slides using digital or traditional copy methods 



a::: 
(.!) 
80 
• Digitizing 35mm slides or negatives for use in Mac, Windows and Unix software 
:EI-­
~0 
• Next day service on color prints with "Free Doubles" everyday 
ROOM 1 3 CCE




5:r: 
631-7636 
8:00-5:00
§o_ 
Monday -Friday 
... 
er of the week several times, Morgan had 29 points in the last game, and leads the team in three pointers. 
While Gaither and Schultz battle underneath and Morgan and Armington trade shots, the Bulldogs have no one who can handle the all around force of Notre Dame's lone senior. 
Leading the team in rebounds per game as well as assists, in addition to contributing double digit points per game and the most career steals, Bowen is an indomitable presence on both offense and defense. 
"We have to play our own game and not get caught up in Butler's tempo," Bowen said . "We have to play in control and do the things we know how to do well." 
One of the many things this year's women's basketball team does well is rebound. The Irish have outrebounded their opponents in every game this season. including a margin of 41 boards in the last two con­tests. 
"We hope to win the battle of the boards," Sutherland said, "Both teams' style is to play hard, play physical, and both are post-oriented." 
Tonight's game will be a chance for the Irish to extend their winning streak to seven, and to win their 11th of their last 12 games. Since the start of 1995, the Irish have only lost once. 
"Its going to be great game because Butler is very good," Sutherland said, "Its going to come down to who does the lit­tle things like free throws, no turnovers. Those types of things." 
Inside intimidator Gaither thinks its a bit simpler: "We just have to play hard that's all. I just want to win." 


) HURRY! 
SPACE IS UMITED! 
ll1a t1clJd!s rwr:J f)\? I!Mnlltm ave.,, lrnfmllld7~hold ~bl!td oo ~cxap!Q'. r......not trixilxi. 
Coundl Travel 
1153 N. De~rbom, 2nd Roor Chicago, ll60610 
311•951•0585 
Call for availability, prices, and other Spring Break destinations. 


The Observer· SPORTS 
Kentucky 
continued from page 24 

The Irish simply will not be 
able to match the Wildcats' 
atlileticism. 

But in the topsy-turvy world of college basketball; the home court and a little luck some­times squash a more skillful opponent. 
And Kentucky is nothing if not skillful. 
Excitable sideline-scurrier Rick Pitino has assembled an­other fearsome group, led by sleek guard Tony Delk, who scores 16.4 points per game. swingman Rodrick Rhodes scores 14 a game. 
The Wildcats' biggest strength is their suffocating defensive pressure, a burden that will have to be broken by point guard Lamarr Justice. 
Kentucky likes to translate turnovers into easy baskets at the other end. Methodical of­fense is not the Wildcats' mis­
G Lamarr Justics 6'2" Sr. 
sion. 
G Ryan Uoover 6' 1" Jr.

They average 87 points, in­cluding more than eight 3-
C :Mar;eus Y9ung 6'9" So. pointers per game. F (Pa,( G~rfity 6'9" Fr. 
Notre Dame's 3-point shoot­F Ja'son Williams 6'1" Sr. ing, normally a strength, has .., been non-existent lately. In G Tony Delk ~.-~::r~:~,r~----jr::··. their last two games, the Irish 
G Jeff Sheppar~ \ 6~~" So.
have failed to connect on a shot 
C Andrer Riddick ',6'9·~ Sr.
from behind the arc. 

F Roderick Rhodes 6~7" Jr.
Ryan Hoover has been strug­gling from the outside, though F Walter McCarty 6'9" Jr. he has the ability to heat up quickly. 


KUROWSKI'S BACK: Keith Kurowski is expected to see 
THE NAIL STUDIO some playing time Sunday. He 
AT 

THECASTLE ~ weeks after undergoing laser surgery to correct a heart 
has missed more than two 
Special .~ /~ P 

problem and suffering from a 
Set of Nails · ~ 
post-operative infection. 
by /ody only 

He was in uniform for 
Reg. $ss}ust $45 
11

Wednesday's game against 
with student ID expires: 3/3 J/95

Duquesne and he will likely be­
Just Minutes from Campus 

gin playing himself back into 
•272,0312•
shape against Kentucky. 
S.R. at Ironwood • 54533 Terrace Lane 

The Obsarver/David Hungellng 


The 0 bserver 
Roderick Rhodes, pictured here as a freshman against the Irish in 1993, is one of Rick Pitino's many thoroughbreds. 

is looking for 
Assistant News Editors 
and
~93~ 
j(.u~JA) 


Copy Editors 
nJ~J~ 

Applicants should submit 
cy(UVt; 9)~' a personal statement and resume to Dave Tyler by 
4 ®TLurv ruuL illad, 

Monday, February 13 at 5 p.m. Ifyou have questions about either position call Dave at 1-5323 or 4-1200 

Half Court Cold Cut 
Combo_ Combo 
Friday, February 10, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
MOTHER GOOSE &GRIMM MIKE PETERS CLOSE TO HOME JOHN MCPHERSON 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 

~. 
DILBERT 


:1 
LOOK. Wl-\AT WAS
0

WI-\EN YOU CONSIDER THE 
u 
0 ... ..

1-\0URS I WORK , I 1"\AKE 
BLOCKING THE PIPE5 1 
@>

LE5S PER f-\OUR Tf\AN 
IT TOOK f'\E ALL.
II) 
:1
..

Tt-\E ;JANlTOf\1 
f"\ORNING TO PLUNGE
0..,_
,_ 
THE. f\ASCAL OUT. 
0 
II) 
" 

CROSSWORD 
30African &O Queen before sorceress Sophia 

ACROSS 
1 Camera 
of fiction &1 Refute

settings 
32 At the age of: 64 Personal spa 1 Reprobate Lat., abbr. 
66 Dubai and 

151970's Best 33 Agamemnon's 
others Picture father 
67 Disentwine
36 Rocky ridge 

16 "Shogun" rite 
68 Security 
38 1940 Hope film

17 Secluded spot &9 Hitchcock book
43 Lissome 

18 Like Toons "A--ofa
44 Stealth craft 
Different Color"

t8 Cedar Rapids 45 Scratchy shrub college 48Chopper 20 Verdugo and 50--bene DOWN others 51 Camels' kin 22 Not share 
53 Furthermore 1 Longest key 56 Prefix meaning 2 City north of

23 Partake of 
failure Sunnyvale

24 Work long and 
57 Roy Orbison's 3 And like that 

hard 
"--Over" 4 Ike's arena 

25 Store, in a way 58 Playwright 
5 Peaceable types 28 Air bubble Norman 
6 New Zealand runner Peter 7 1932 Dietrich film

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 8 Miracle site 8 Greet the day 10 Flight 11 Police-blotter letters 34 City on the 12 Hip Mohawk 13lnterstice on an 
35 Soak Insect's wing 
37 Fellow, in slang 14 Role for seven 
39-NaNa 
actresses 
40 Part of a dash 
21 Sister of Selene 41 Hangers-on
26 Durban's province 42 Penciled-in 27 Enter gradually 45 Vacation 29 Chaos mementos 31 Directional 46 Last syllable of suffix a word 
BILL WATTERSON 


T\.\E IJHH\D~>,~T PEI\1\01'\'3 ni'C. COURT j:CIR P.. 1'-\t.W \RIAl 01'\ \~t. ~RO\J\-\1)') \1-\r>,\ 1-\\'S l/1-W~ER \'S \t{C.at-1\I'H'C.H. 
SCOTT ADAMS 

I LOVE.. 
I't'\ GIVING

f'\Y JOB . 
HI!"\ A 



47 Backbone of a 55 Rhone tributary 
mountain range 58 Ancient 491994 U.S. Open greetings 
golf champ 62 Before indicator 
Ernie 
63 Tore 52 Walloped 
65 Singer's 54 "Yup" syllable 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
I OlD!'-\~ IXl \\.' I 1'-\t.'IER 
BESIDES, 
T\-\REW \till-,\.' '{O\.l Cf>..~\ 
l MISSED. 
DIDN'i I?.'
PR<Wt. l ltiRt.W \1.' 
-


"I need to use the rest room. Hang on to this end of the rope so I can find my way back." 

SOUTH DINING HALL Shrimp Poppers Vegetables Marinara Beef PotPie 
<=··
·sk 
NORTH DINING HALL Teriyaki Chicken Sandwich Country-Fried Steak Steamed Vegetable Plate 
Saint Mary's 
;~t;.: .. :··=~~:~A~r-~·;,,,~r:J<J\~·, .. 'Call 284.;4500 for information. 
IT 
Toke a First Aid doss with the American Red Ooss. We11teoch you what you need to know to save someone you love . ..lrom choking, bleeding or dozens of other life threatening emergencies. Call your chapter of the American Red Ooss today. And know ~ all. 
L 

American+ 
Red Cross
• 
~ 

AMERICAN RED CROSS CAMPAIGN NEWSPAPER AD NO. ARC-86-1078-2 COL 
'IIie Observer 

Published Monday through Friday, fJ1i.e 06seroer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found 
7rr.e 06seroer an indispensible link to the two cam­puses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive lJTi.t 06seroe.r in your horne. 
Make checks payable: The Observer and mail: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $60 for one academic year. 
D Enclosed is $35 for one semester. 
Name-----------------­
Address.______________________________ 
City_______State.___Zip_____ 
-

._... 
SPORTS 
page 24 Friday, February 10, 1995 

Kentucky is 
One Last 
Notre Dame's final shot at a win over a ranked foe 
Chance 
By JASON KELLY 
Associate Sports Editor 
Another opportunity arrives Sunday for the Notre Dame men's basketball team, one last chance to slay one of the game's giants. · 
Sixth-ranked Kentucky­ugly uniforms and all-visits the Joyce Center for a 1 
p.m. matinee. 
It will be Notre Dame's fmal attempt to snatch a vic­tory from an elite team after a few feeble efforts fell short, most notably last week's 37-point shellacking at UCLA. 
But these marquee matchups have been infre­quent for the Irish this sea­son thanks to a softer sched­ule that has already guaran­teed a winning season. 
That's why Sunday's game has such significance. National television exposure and an NCAA champi­onship-caliber opponent will inject some vibrance into what has been a rather life­less arena at times this sea­son. 
During many home games, the Joyce Center has resem­bled the second floor of the library. only quieter and with fewer students. 
Sunday it will shake. At least as long as Notre Dame remains within a reasonable distance of the Wildcats. 
"We believe we can win every game," freshman Derek Manner said. "You have to." 
Confidence may be Notre Dame's greatest ally because talent tips the scales toward Kentucky. 
see KENTUCKY I page 22 



• Guards Lamarr Justice (above) and Ryan Hoover are the key if Notre Dame is to break the Kentucky pres­sure and com 
ete with the Wildcats. 


Sunday at 1 p.m. at the JACC Kentucky by 17 
Kentucky brings a typical potent aresenal into Sunday's matinee, led by guard Tony Delk's 16.4 points per game. Kentucky connects on more than eight 3-pointers a game. Notre Dame can't match the Wildcat's athletic ability, but Pat Garrity has proven to be an effective preformer in big games, and if Ryan Hoover is hot from 3-point range, the Irish can be dangerous. Abig key will be how Notre Dame handles Kentucky's pressure, a burdon that will rest largely with Lamatrr Justice. keith Kurowski is expected to get some playing time after mising more than two weeks after laser surgery to correct a heart problem. 
The Observer/ Robert Bollman Jr. 


...-Irish hope 01arketing equals success 
By K.C. GOYER 
point margin. seniors Sarah Armington and Lies) 
Sports Writer "The biggest thing about Schultz, each with double digit aver­this game from a fan's ages per game. Schultz is the tree 
Pack the JACC tonight 
perspective is that theses inside at 6' 5", and also leads the because the Irish are 
two teams are so similar," team in rebounds and blocked shots. back. assistant coach John The Bulldogs may have a tree, but 
The Notre Dame Sutherland said, "They the Irish have a Tryna. Katryna women's basketball team have more experience Gaither, a 6' 3" sophomore out of has its biggest conference with three seniors, but at Mount Vernon, NY, is averaging game of the season as this point in the season, 17.6 points per game in addition to second place Butler that shouldn't make much a field goal percentage which ranks comes to the Joyce Athletic and 
of a difference." her 13th in the nation at 67.6%. Convocation Center at 7 p.m. Tonight's game will be the battle "Tryna will do a great job against tonight. The Irish are first in the of the one-two punches in a contest Lies!" Co-captain Letitia Bowen said, Midwestern Collegiate Conference between number one and number "Liesl has a good touch under the as the only undefeated team. two. Both teams center their basket but she isn't as quick as 
The Irish played Butler twice last offense around a big post inside and Tryna." 
-
year, and split with one victory and a hot shooter on the perimeter. The Gaither-Schultz match up will one loss, both by less than a three Butler's leading scorers are see HOOPS/ page 21 



of note . ..
DUKE SCORES UPSET WIN 
Men's and women's interhall 
The Blue Devils upset no. 18 Georgia Tech 
basketball championship 
77-70 last night in college hoops action 
tournaments start Sunday in the 

SEEPAGE 17 
JACC. 








