
Thursday, November 30, 1995 • Vol. XXVII No. 64 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Forum questions sports ethics 
By ANDY CABINESS Notre Dame for a long time." ference is that Notre Dame News Writer He also noted that it still is forces its student-athletes to when he added, "We could live by the same rules as all 
Even though college athletics have a Nobel winner at Notre other students, helping to has become a big business, Dame and it might get a little remind them that their role as Notre Dame has been able to coverage, but if Ron Powlus students is important. Finally, maintain high ethical standards breaks his arm, it's all over the the school takes great care to and remain competitive, ac­country." schedule events around exam cording to a panel that spoke Beauchamp also pointed out periods and in a way that min­last evening at Zahm Hall. three things Notre Dame does imizes missed classes. 
Father William Beauchamp, differently than most schools Tybor added to Beauchamp's Notre Dame's Executive Vice that allows it to maintain high point by noting that at Notre President; Joseph Tybor, a levels of athletic excellence Dame, the admissions depart­sports writer from the Chicago without sacrificing integrity. ment decides which athletes get Tribune; and George Kelly, as­The first is that Notre Dame in and not the coaches. sistant to Notre Dame's Athletic maintains institutional control He also commented on the Director all spoke from differ­over its athletic programs. He media's attitude towards Notre ent perspectives on the issue of noted that at many schools, Dame's standards. ethics in college athletics. athletic departments are almost "I think generally among the 
Beauchamp was quick to ad­separate entities which high­media there is a feeling that Chicago Tribune sports writer Joseph Tybor and University Executive mit the influence that athletics ranking university officials have Notre Dame tries to do it the Vice-President Father William Beauchamp discussed ethics in college has on the university. little or no control over, causing right way." athletics last night at Zahm Hall "There's no question that ath­many of the recent scandals at letics has been a big part of major programs. Another dif-see ETHICS/page 4 
WVFI announces staff cuts 
By KRISTI KOLSKI with on-air uniformity, implementation Assistant News Editor of policy, and proper studio conduct, according to the restructuring plan. 
In a move that could be the biggest A smaller stafT would alleviate some of changn to hit WVFI in a decade, station these problems and would also make manager Michael Flood announced that Federal Communication Commission cer­the AM radio station will undergo a tification of each disc-jockey more feasi­rnstructuring program that will cut the ble. current staiT in half. Starting this Friday, all members of 
By implementing a plan to streamline WVFI will have to reapply for positions the station from a current number of 115 for the Spring 1995 semester. disc-jockeys to around 50, it is believed "We are looking for the people that are that communication and consistency will willing to put the time and the commit­improve as well as the elusive sense of ment into WVFI," said Flood. "We want professionalism. people to realize that it is a privilege to 
"The sole reason we are doing this is so work here. and if we all work together that wn can see ourselves on the FM we can really turn this station into some­dial," said Flood. thing great." 
WVFI's drive to go FM has been mel To achieve consistency, the board's with various obstacles over the last few plan calls for lengthening some of the on­YIHLrs. Mainly, the university administra­air shifts. A 7 a.m. to 10 a.m. paid morn­tion is eoncerned that the station repre­ing shift will be introduced to replace a sent a strong sense of professionalism. two hour shift that previously started the 
"Wn've been in a holding pattern for broadcast day. Between 10 a.m. and 2 t1m y1mrs." said Flood. "Some disc-jock­p.m., shifts will remain two hours, but ey's might think: 'We are not going FM, bntween 2 p.m. and 2 a.m. blocks will be nobody's listnning, so why should I rnstructured in a three hour format. carn't'" Adele I.anan, Assistant Director for 
I."Jood, supported hy the station's exec­Student Activities, supports the shift utive board, hopes that the restructuring extensions. "There isn't any radio sta­
The Observer/Katie Kroener 
program will put WVFI back on the road tion in the country that has a new shift 

Rockin' the Night Away!
toward the FM drnam. every two hours." "Hight now it is di11icult to get informa­The introduction of hourly news and 
The Freddy Jones Band performed last night in Stepan Center to the delight of the 
over 1,000 who attended. See page 13 for a review of the performance. 
tion to 115 people," said Flood. 
Such a large staff creates problems see WVFII page 4 







Waldheim's degree will stand SMC students agree to 
By BRENDAN BOYLE awarded the honorary degree 
disagree over nickname 
New' Writrr from Notre Dame in the early'It is administration eighties, some felt that his By KARA PAVLICK ferred the hype over the mas­Formnr Austrian president policy that once an award should be revoked. News Writor cot to the beginning of the 
and Nazi soldier. Kurt Wald-"It is administration policy ------------woman's movement in the lwirn, was given an honorary honorary degree is that once an honorary degree is Saint Mary's mascot, the early 70s. dngrnn from Notre Dame in the given it will not be given it will not be revoked," "Belle," will not soon be a relic "I think that the women's narly 1980s. Now, a petition revoked.' said University Provost Timothy of the college, according to stu­movement is hitting this cam­
has btHlll issued to have that O'Meara. dents who attended a forum pus right now. The women's degrne mvoked. Timothy O'Meara He explained that an honest Wednesday night held in movement is continuing to 
Tlw pntition was initiated by University Provost and sincere effort was made to Haggar Parlor to discuss the change in the 90s and I think .Josnph Bauer, a professor at investigate whether or not Kurt proposed mascot change. the we all need to be open to the Notre Dame Law School. Waldheim was worthy to re-Before students left the fo­that." Mr. Bauer could not be reached ceive the honor based on the rum, they came to a general Change was a focal point for comment on the issue. in the German army during information available at that agreement: The controversy is throughout the forum with 
Kurt Waldheirn was nlected 1942_45 and apparently had time. not about adopting a new mas­many students quoting Saint prnsident of Austria in 1986. more of a role in Nazi war He also pointed out that it cot, but rather about getting Mary's motto, "Honoring tradi­Bnforn bneoming president, he crimes than he had originally would be a bad precedent to students excited and involved tion, pioneering change." For was a diplomat and Secretary-admitted. continually investigate whether in their school. instance, senior Tina Lemker Gmwral of the United Nations. In June 1991 , under pressure or not an individual is worthy "We want to get energy on said that most students want to 
Whilt~ he was considering from Jewish and world groups, of an honorary degree, even this campus. If that's reinvent­keep the school's traditions running for a second term as he announced he would not after the award has been ing what the language (used to alive, but few act on promoting presid1mt in 1991, more in-seek another term as Austria's bestowed. describe a 'Belle') that's great. change. formation was revealed about president. For the administration, this We need to create passion "It's a process of change that the extent of his involvement in Since this information about issue is decided. Kurt within that and pass it down," needs to occur now, I say chat-Nazi war crimes. Nazi war crimes was not avail-Waldheim's honorary degree said senior Amy Johnson. 
Waldlwim was a lieutenant able when Waldheim was from Notre Dame will stand. Senior Gabriele Abowd re-see BELLES/ page 4 page 2 Thursday, November 30, 1995

The Observer· INSIDE 
•INSIDE COLUMN • WtmlD Al AGLANCE 
Egyptians vote amid violence, rigging charges 



Free 

at 
CAIRO. Egypt Muslim group, whose slogan Millions of Egyptians chose a new "Islam is the solution" has parliament Wednesday in an elec-appealed to many frustrated by tion tarnished by charges of vote high unemployment and a bleak fraud. Opponents said the maneu-future. In the weeks before the 
vers were yet another government vote, a military court convicted 54 attempt to subdue its main rival, members of the Brotherhood, An Observer column 
last 

the Muslim Brotherhood. police broke up at least five elec­recently revealed to me Brandon Williams 
The government has repeatedly tion rallies and its headquarters that I am a devil. Assistant Viewpoint 
promised the election would be free was closed. Apparently, its not Editor 
and fair, but the Brotherhood and The Brotherhood said more than entirely my fault, as all 
other opponents accused President 600 supporters have been detained members of my race are devils. Nevertheless, 
Hosni Mubarak's ruling party o since Sunday. The Interior Ministry I found this revelation disturbing as I cannot 
stuffing ballot boxes, barring oppo-said police made 140 arrests imagine my Hispanic, African-American, 
sition supporters and blatantly buy-Sunday but has refused comment Asian or Native-American friends wanting to 
ing votes. One Islamist part on the crackdown. "This culmina­hang out with someone whom they know to be 
accused the wife of a gove tion and escalation is because of of demonic makeup. I expect this will be 
candidate of voting four times. the election," said Mustafa 
Another party claimed that a gov-..___________L__________A_>WP Mashour, the Brotherhood'sespecially true if they are familiar with my 
inate desire to oppress and destroy all non­
ernment candidate brought 400 deputy leader. "Why is it now that devils whom I encounter. Apperently, howev­
wrestlers and bodybuilders to one polling station to the elections are on that they have started this." er, it's irrelevant because I also discovered 
intimidate voters. The government promised to investi-The results, expected Thursday, are almost sure to re­that it is inherently against our natures to 
gate charges of vote-rigging, some of which led to vio-turn Mubarak's party to its two-thirds majority of the 444 associate with each other anyway. I suppose I 
lence. Two people were killed, more than 50 wounded seats in parliament. Some opponents charge rigging is should be thankful for this because the new 
and a prominent Islamic leader was roughed up as gangs behind the success, while others say it is due to the gov-proliferation of racially profound writing at 
from different parties clashed across the country. ernment's vast patronage network. Notre Dame also revealed that my Native 
The election followed the government's well-organized The government is backing 439 candidates and the American friends are decended from savages. 
11-month crackdown on the Brotherhood, Egypt's largest Brotherhood 150-all listed as independents. I certainly can't complain about not having to spend time with savages. I can't imagine that 
FEC: Gingrich illegally financed Bush encourages weapons sale 
experience would be too rewarding-howev­
er, that could be just because I'm a devil. 
WASHINGTON NEW DELHI, India Ridiculous! I don't know what got these 
Former U.S. President George Bush said on Wednesdaypeople started but this pseudo-intellectual 
that a $368 million sale of American weapons to Pakistan 

race baiting must stop! I have been shocked, 
will not affect the military balance between India and dismayed and above all saddened by the 
Pakistan. "The U.S. administration has no intention to recent columns and letters in the Observer. 
disturb the security balance in the region," Bush said in Until I came here somebody's racial back­
a talk sponsored by the Citibank Asian Leadership

ground was little more important to me than 
Lecture series. India believes the sale will providethe color of their eyes. Now all of the sudden 
Pakistan with a military edge. The two neighbors have some races are devils, some savages and God 
fought three wars since independence from Britain in 

knows what the others are but apperently 1947. Both India and Pakistan are believed to be capable 
whatever it is it isn't compatible with devils its new evidence proves the organization was illegally of making nuclear weapons. On Wednesday, Bush met and savages! 
assisting federal candidates before then, particularly the with President S.D. Sharma, Prime Minister P.V. 
All I can say is I'm sorry. I'm sorry for those future House speaker. The FEC's filing in U.S. District Narasimha Rao and Finance Minister Manmohan Singhpeople who are so closed minded that they 
Court included internal memos, meeting minutes, tape during a daylong visit. h1 1990, the U.S. Congress blocked cannot enjoy the inter-racial frindships that 
recordings and notes showing GOPAC paid for consul­the sale of arms to Pakistan after President Bush said he 
have added so much meaning to my life. I'm 
tants "to help Newt think" and to "inoculate Newt could no longer certify that Pakistan was not building sorry that they had to go through whatever 
Gingrich from Democratic attacks" by producing a pro­nuclear weapons. Last month, the Clinton administration they went through to make them so closed 
Gingrich videotape. A tape recording from a 1990 GOPAC made a one-time exception to the amendment which for­minded. I'm sorry that our ancestors had to meeting quotes one. of the group's officials as estimating bids such sales. As Bush delivered his speech, 150 be so at odds with each other that even today its financial support for Gingrich amounted to more than activists from a Muslim youth organization demonstrated their legacy poisons our lives. Above all, I'm $250,000 a year. Another GOPAC official asserted during near Parliament, accusing him of killing thousands of sorry our university must be stained by a the same meeting that Gingrich was "probably the most Iraquis during the Persian Gulf War in 1991 when Bush miniscule group of the population that bitterly single high priority we've got in dollars." was at the height of his popularity as president.
refuses to let racism die. I implore this student body to deny this germ that has manifested itself into print and 

ANC Eyes Military Service For Gays Algeria closes detention camp
into our lives. I implore this student body to 
remember the dream. It is a dream that was ALGIERS, Algeria
spoken on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial 
CAPE TOWN In a new sign of reconciliation, the government said years ago. It is a dream that I pray has not 
President Nelson Mandela's African National Congress Wednesday it has closed its last internment camp and died in our hearts, on our campus, or in our on Tuesday proposed allowing gays and lesbians to serve freed the 640 suspected Muslim militants once held nation. Have you felt its words of truth in in the military. The National Party, which governed there. The camp at Ain M'Guel in southern Algeria was your hearts? Can we dare to hope for a time under apartheid, objected to the proposal on the grounds one of seven camps that held thousands of militants ac­"where black boys and black girls will be able that recruiting people of different sexual persuasions cused in a nearly 4-year-old insurgency that has left an to join hands with little white boys and white would undermine the effectiveness of the army. "How do estimated 40,000 people dead. The Interior Ministry an­girls and walk together as sisters and broth­you keep harmony in the barracks if you have people of nounced the closure in a statement, but did not specifyers"? Dare we have faith that when we "let varying sexual orientations?" asked National Party when it was shut. Violence has been on the wane since 
freedom ring" we might "speed up that day Senator Mark Wiley. "Free sexual activity is detrimental last week's presidential election in which incumbent when all of God's children, black men and to military discipline." The ANC said defense policy Liamine Zeroual, a retired general appointed to the postwhite men, Jews and Gentiles, Protestants should reflect the new constitution, which protects people last year, helped legitimize his rule by winning handily. 
and Catholics, will be able to join hands and of all sexual persuasions against discrimination. The new In his inauguration speech Monday, Zeroual called for sing in the words of the old Negro spiritual, constitution came into effect with last year's all-race reconciliation and new dialogue with opponents of the 'Free at last! Free at last! Thank God elections that ended apartheid. military-backed government. The banned Islamic Almighty, we are free at last!'" 
Salvation Front has also called for talks. 

May our campus and its student body bring and enjoy this freedom. May all those who have recently made evident their pitiable lack 
• INDiANA WEATHER

of this dream regain grasp of those driving 
forces of all that is worth striving for: Faith, 
Hope and Love. May these values manifest 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Nov. 30. 
Unes separate high temperature zones for the day. 

themselves in embracing of the truth, leaving 
our campus and lives "Free at last!" 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Viewpoint Melanie Laflin Bridget Green Bill Connolly Brandon Williams Sports Production 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
0 1995 AccuWeather, Inc.

Mike Day Jackie Moser Todd Fitzpatrick Heather Dominique 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY Pl CLOUDY CLOUDY
Graphics Lab Tech 

VIII ASSOCIBl9d Press
Tom Roland Mike Hungeling 

Atlanta 64 37 Dallas 71 53 New Orleans 71 38 Baltimore 54 31 Denver 70 35 New York 50 36 Boston 47 29 Los Angeles 77 54 Philadelphia 53 33
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of 
Chicago 44 33 Miami 80 64 Phoenix 80 50 
the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Columbus 51 40 Minneapolis 39 28 St. Louis 63 47 








with his KiLler InstincfM cartridge, he got a Killer Cuts game 
music CD. And a free Limited-edition cap. As if KI's ACM graphics and nine brutal fighting machines weren't enough. Actually, it was for Chuck. Just ask him. On second
,

thought, maybe not. 

'• 
AOL@ """"'"'' NOA ~ 

ENTERTAIN/lENT SYSTEM 
www.nlntendo.com ~ 

Free hat offer IS available with proof of purchase of Killer Instinct game cartridge. Otter ends 3131/96. See participating retailers for details. ©1995 Nintendo/Rare. Killer lnsllnctrM is a trademark of Nintendo of America Inc. 
Thursday, November 30, 1995 The Observer • NEWS 




Rep. Schroeder will not run 
By WARD MARCHANT A•snciatcd Press 
DENVEH 

Democratic Hep. Pat Schroeder, the dean of wonwn legislators in Congress, said today she will not snnk re-election to a 13th term. 
Schronder. who has served 23 years in the U.S. llouse of Hepresentatives, was scheduled to make llll ollicial announcement in Washington, D.C., later today. 
Sehroeder said she was leaving Congress heeause "I feel it's time to move on to taekle new ehalllmgns. 
"Violating the first law of wing-walking which says nover let go of what you have until you have a firm grip on something else, I will retire from the Congmss at thn end of this term," she said in a news rnlease. 
Schroeder, 55, is a senior member of the House .ludkiary and National Security committees. An outspoken feminist, she is known for her 


cyber gashes to the groin. But aLL 
quick wit and sharp tongue. 
She criticized House Speaker Newt Gingrich earlier this year for suggesting women shouldn't serve in combat because they could get "infec­tions" from being in a ditch for 30 days. 
She also is credited with hanging the "Teflon president" label on former President Beagan. 
In the statement that was to be transmitted via satellite later today. Schroeder noted that she has "been able to spend a majority of my adult life in the House of Representatives." 
"This year my age hit the 55 speed limit," she said. "Thank goodness Congress lifted it to 65." 
"My adult life meter keeps ticking and while I'm active, vibrant, and at the top of my game, I feel it's time to move on to tackle new chal­lenges," she said. 
"Being named to the National Women's Hall of Fame, labeled by Ollie North as one of the coun­try's 25 most dangerous politicians and experi­encing the massive change of power in the House has made it an incredible year," she said. 
t. .
,. .,.­

Chuck's taken one too many plasma slices to the face. One too many 
The Observer/Katie Kroener 

For a Good Cause 
Graduate student Keely Lange buys a greeting card from salesper­son Mary Jean Osberger yesterday in the library. This card sale was sponsored by UNICEF with all proceeds going to the local UNICEF chapter. 
l ~ .,: ' ,, ' ~· :'11\li~.:;~l,,\,• r~·' ~~k;:~·l Iii ,• 'I ,•,,',,.' 
1 
, 11'; n ,1\ f ·~ t'; ·\•'( t.'· '' "· ,~ ,:·I 
' r ~ ,, , • I \,'~ o 
~I. • ~ "' _.:. :'
·-o ""·t
'· ,'\:-:.•·• 11 
: 
..· 


co 

is not Lost. Because 

page 4 


Belles 
continued from page 1 
lenge and change." But change need not come from adopting a new mascot. 
According to a survey released by the Saint Mary's Women's Center, who spon­sored last nights forum, out of 494 students, 50 percent liked the "Belles", 43 percent did not like the name. Leaving the final 7 percent indifferent. 
With a slight majority of stu­dents in favor of keeping the name, the question now turns on where to go with the issue. Student athletes, such senior Laura Richter say the energy used to favor and disfavor the mascot should be redirected to support the college's athletic teams and activities. 
"When our friends across the street have a game we all rush to support them. When has there ever been a rally cry by any non-athlete at this place?'' 
The forum, which had a turn out of about 60 students and faculty members, started out as a debate between those who took opposing sides on the is­sue. It ended with students frankly discussing many of the problems on campus. 

Many believe that it was an opportunity to hit on unspoken issues, such as the Saint Mary's administration viewing student leaders as figure heads and not as women capable of governing the student body on their own. 
"Student government does not foster true student leader­ship on this campus. Student leaders are rather looked at as puppets by the administration," said senior Barbara VanDer­sarl. 
The Observer • NEWS 

WVFI 

continued from page 1 
Skywatch weather reports will also help to provided continuity for the listener. 
"The purpose the station is to get people to listen to it. The more people we get (to listen) the better," said a current disc­jockey who wished to remain nameless. 
Along with providing a more professional and dependable media source for the listeners, Flood hopes that the structure will create more spirit amongst the staff. 
"Organization is going to bring cohesiveness," said Flood. "A smaller staff is easier to cater to and we really want to bring the staff together as one where we share the same goals." 
That goal focuses on making WVFI more attractive to the campus community and the administration. 
"It is not our own private music club, we must serve the university," said Flood. "If we are ever going to see that day of FM status, we need to start act­ing like it." 
WVFI will continue to promote new music, but the station hopes that these restructuring efforts will improve the image of 
Thursday, November 30, 1995 
the station. Those efforts may be rewarded. 
"If they progress, we can look toward spring to start the process toward FM," said Lanan. 
Applications for on-air and off-air positions will be available Friday in LaFortune and will be due Dec. 8. Saint Mary's stu­dents can pick up applications in Haggar College Center. 
Since the restructuring of the station will complicate daily operation, WVFI will return to on-air status two weeks after the semester begins. This time is scheduled to allow for staff selection and an intensive mandatory training. 
Ethics 
continued from page 1 
Another topic Tybor com­mented on was how much money is a motivating factor in how colleges run their athletic departments. He noted that many schools have to lower their standards to attract better talent because the only way they can balance their athletic budgets is to field winning teams. 
He pointed out that, "while (money) may not drive college athletics at Notre Dame, but you better believe it drives col­lege athletics elsewhere." 

Although a change in Saint Mary's mascot appears to be slim, the forum called for fur­ther discussion. Discussion that includes redefining what it means to be called a "Belle." 
"We need to now focus on the kinds of images that we want the 'Belles' to be associated with," said Susan Alexander, Saint Mary's Women's Studies Coordinator. 
Kelly, speaking from over forty years of experience in the athletic department, put a dif­ferent twist on recruiting at Notre Dame. He commented that everyone seems to think that recruiting is easy because of the name. His view is that, "this is the most difficult place to recruit to simply because we're honest." He also stated that he has never hesitated to let potential recruits know that, "Notre Dame isn't for every­one." 
Kelly capped off the discus­sion by claiming that rather than Notre Dame having to change in reaction to the lower standards of other schools, that the opposite is true. 
"I think we have forced other 
Murder probe expands 
Photographer linked to 1992 model slaying 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES 
The photographer charged in the death of model Linda Sobek was linked today to the death of another model whose body was dumped three years ago in the Angeles National Forest, Sheriff Sherman Block said. 
The similarities in the two cases -blonde women on modeling assignments whose bodies were disposed of in the forest -had raised suspicions that the same killer might be involved. 
"In addition to the Linda Sobek murder we are looking at possibilities of the involve­ment of the suspect Charles Rathbun and some other pos­sible unresolved cases, includ­ing the Kimberly Pandelios 

SEE WHAT ALL THE NOISE IS ABOUT 

You've Seen STOMP On: 
• 
The late Show, with David letterman 

• 
The Tonight Show • CNN News 


• 
Good Morning America • Dateline NBC 


STUDENT TICKETS $15 w/I.D. (limited Availability) 
TONIGHT 8 PM! DON'T MISS IT! MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM Reserved Seats: Now on sale at Morris Box Office, The Usual Outlets, or Charge by Phone: (219)235-9190 
KIDS l I 2 PRICE COUPONS! 
Available at: South Bend Granger 
~ 
Mishawaka 
Have you had 
break today?N 

The directors and members of the Campus Ministry music ensembles-Notre Dame Women's Choir, Basilica Schola, Notre Dame Folk Choir, Notre Dame Liturgical Choir and the Notre Dame Handbell Choirs-cordially invite you to attend an 

AdventLessons and Carols 
December 3, 199 5 7:15pm Basilica of the Sacred Heart University of Notre Dame 


orlds 
Get the 




IBM PCs Offer the Perfect Combination of Price, Convenience and Performan('t' 
.::....::..:.: ';:' :.® 
case," Block said. 

"We have people who've come forward who have indi­cated that there was acquain­tanceship between Rathbun and Kimberly Pandelios," Block said at a news conference. "We are now including the Pandelios case as a formal part of this investigation," Block said. 
Pandelios, 20, of suburban Northridge, disappeared in June 1992 and her skeleton was found by a hiker a year later in the 1,000-square-mile forest. 
r--------------------------------------------~---­
Thursday, November 30, 1995 
NATO officers begin planning 
By THOMAS GINSBERG curtly during a stop in burned­Am>ciatcd Pross out Kalesija. The town, about 10 miles east of Tuzla, was on KALESIJA, Bosnia the frontlines through much of 
U.S. military experts arrived the war and has been empty in northern Bosnia Wednesday since May 1992. to scout the battered country­The pickup crunched over side whem thousands of Gls are shell holes and rubble, a ragged to keep the pflace. blue U.N. flag fluttering from its 
"We've got a lot to do and antenna. On the rear window very little lime to do it," said was a small sticker of a U.S. Col. John Brown, splashing flag. through the mud in a U.N. pick­AP reporters who followed up truck. the truck saw turn down one 
Within weeks, some 20,000 road and stop within sight of 
U.S. soldiers are to begin ar­former rebel Serb positions, riving, and then will fan out now in government hands. The across northeastern Bosnia. truck stopped cautiously and Jlrench, British and other turned around to avoid possible troops will patrol the rest of the mines. country. Inside the cab, officers di­
In the meantime, Brown's rected the driver using a topo­teams will be bouncing over graphical map and a hand-held hundreds of miles of norlh­Global Positioning System de­eastnrn Bosnia, checking land­vice, which pinpoints locations ing strips, pothole-riddled using satellites. roads, scores of villages and Just east of the Tuzla airbase, many minefields. the team hesitated, then 
The Observer • NEWS page 5 
NATO enters 


Advisor on Cuba
Bosnia 
NATO may give the 
•
formal go-ahead Thursday for an advance squad of 1.400 allied 


faces investigation 
soldiers, including as many as 700 Americans, to enter Bosnia. 
Associated Press 

Guatemala. Clinton ordered a review of
Current and newly accepted 

MIAMI the slayings as well as the "tor­
possessions as of Nov. 22 
Richard Nuccio, President 

ture, disappearance or death" 
• Bosnian government-CJ Rebel 

Clinton's special adviser for of any U.S. citizens in
Croat federation ·· Serb 

Cuba, is under criminal inves­Guatemala since 1984.
New partition line 
tigation for allegedly divulging 

Heports from four agencies ­classified information about the departments of State, 
CIA activities in Guatemala, Justice and Defense as well as 
CROATIA 

The Miami Herald reported to­the CIA -will be examined day. 
and independent research also The probe by the U.S. Attor­is being done, the newspaper
ney's Office centers on alle­

said. The work is not expectedgations that Nuccio gave the to be complete until January. 
name of a CIA paid informant The House ethics committee to Rep. Robert Torricelli of New decided in July not to act Jersey, unidentified officials in 
against Torricelli after the con­Washington told the newspa­gressman said his information 
per. 

came from "outside sources" 
Nuccio did not go to his office unrelated to his confidential 
Advance NATO troops In region 
today and could not be reached contacts on the intelligence
for comment. A White House committee.
~ United States ::::==. Reconnaissance team of about 
official said Nuccio was still on Torricelli, who has refused to
10 Americans in Tuzla. 

the payroll but the official name his source, declined to
1 1 France 
declined to comment further. 

talk with The Miami Herald on 
. 2, 162 troops in Split, Croatia. 

"We are neither confirming Tuesday.
~Britain 
nor denying any ongoing in­However, two sources, one a
~ 600 troops based in Ploce, Croatia. 
vestigation," said the official, friend of Nuccio's, told the APfWm. J. Castello asking not to be identified. paper that Nuccio has ac­
The Gls will face "the same plunged into an enormous field had one of their first encoun­Nuccio was responsible for knowledged being that source dangers that have been here once used for small civilian air­ters with the locals: a half­Cuba and Guatemala while to the State Department's in­for several years and will con­craft. Now it's a sea of soggy dozen Muslim boys with curi­working as a State Department spector general. Linda Topping, tinutl. That's why we're down grass and ankle-deep mud. ous, wary smiles. adviser earlier this year. In spokeswoman for that office, here," said Brown. chief of staff Spewing pale muck behind, "Hi, how're you doing?" one May, he was appointed a spe­wouldn't comment on that, but for the 1st Armored Division. the truck plowed through as the of the officers said. The boys cial adviser on Cuba to Clinton confirmed her office had for­
Brown and nine other officers officers took in the landscape giggled and one of them mimic­and Secretary of State Warren warded the matter to the from the division flew from that conceivably could become ked in return, "Hi." Christopher. Justice Department. 
(;ermany to the Croatian city of the Army's staging ground, Brown said his team would Torricelli publicly linked the Split. Tlwy arrived in the north­home to makeshift barracks or use their observations during informant, Guatemalan Army ern city of Tuzla in four white a baseball field -or nothing at their four-to-five-day trip to Col. Julio Roberto Alpirez, to arrnornd pnrsonnel carriers dri­all. decide how many soldiers and the slayings in Guatemala of vnn by Norwegian U.N. peace­Minutes later, outside an supplies to station around Tu­U.S. innkeeper Michael DeVine kenpers, abandoned warehouse, Brown zla, and whether to base the and Efrain Bamaca Velazquez, 
Shortly afterward, the team only smiled when peppered U.S. headquarters here or else­a leftist guerrilla married to an made its first foray into the with questions about the use where. American citizen. smog-shrouded hills around the for the field. Finally he an­"We'll ensure that wherever The disclosure led to a public 
U.N. airbase at Tuzla. swered obliquely: "There are they go, (they) will be secure. outcry over the CIA's apparent "We're just taking a look all kinds of options." And then we'll look at access failure to control its sources 
around." Brown, in a helmet As the officers ventured into and other considerations," he and upset talks intended to end and camouflage fatigues, said the crumbling building, they said. a three-decade civil war in 
Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 

GLUTTONY Henry Fairlie is a frequent contributor to The New Republic and The Washington Post. Among his many acclaimed books are The Spoiled Child of the Western World and The Kennedy l'romise. Drawings by Vint Lawrence.  AVARICE SLOTH PRIDE Use your credit card to order and call 1-800-621-2736 or send your order campus mail to The University of Notre LUST ENVY Dame Press, ANGER Maintenance Building. paper $10.95The Seven Deadly Sins Today Name Campus Addressa book by Henry Fairlie from the University of Notre Dame Press D Check or money order enclosedyour source for unique, inexpensive Christmas gifts  



Thursday, November 30, 1995

page 6 The Observer • NEWS 
Treatment helps spine Waldholtz troubles predate marriage 
injured rats recover 
By MALCOLM RITTER 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Rats with a spinal cord in­jury recovered some physical ability from a treatment that helps damaged nerve fibers regrow, scientists reported. 
One expert called the result a modest but significant step in developing new treatments for human spinal cord injuries. 
Scientists cut a bit more than halfway through 61 animals' spinal cords in the middle of the back. 
As a result, the back legs were paralyzed on the side of the cut.All of the animals even­tually regained some ability. 
But the 23 rats that were given treatment, which began at the time of the injury. recov­ered more than the other ones did. 
The work was reported in Thursday's issue of the journal Nature by Barbara Bregman of the Georgetown University Medical Center in Washington, with scientists there and at the University of Zurich. 
The treatment was based on 
the fact that the brain and 
spinal cord contain proteins that normally suppress re­growth of nerve fibers after an injury. 
The rats were treated with antibodies designed to disable these proteins, and so remove the brake on nerve fiber regrowth.The spinal injury shortened the steps the animals took with their affected legs. 
But treated rats took longer steps with their affected legs than untreated animals did, bringing their strides much closer to those seen in healthy animals, Bregman said. 
Most of the treated rats also recovered a leg reflex that requires signals from the.brain. None of the untreated rats did. 
The study also found that treated animals showed more nerve fibers growing to form a detour around the injury site. 
Some of those fibers may have come from nerve cells in the undamaged part of the spinal cord, Bregman said. 
Bregman cautioned that peo­ple should not get false hope from the results. It's not clear such treatment will be useful in people, and if it is, the benefit will be years away, she said. 

Associated Press 
SALT LAKE CITY 
Rep. Enid Waldholtz's money troubles may predate her mar­riage and her estranged hus­band's involvement in her per­sonal and campaign finances, The Deseret News reported. 
The congresswoman may not have had enough assets to legally provide the money she supplied to her House cam­paigns in 1992 and 1994, the paper said Tuesday. 
The first-term Republican has said her estranged husband, Joe Waldholtz, wrecked her finances during her 1994 bid and falsely claimed to be inde­pendently wealthy. He was his wife's unpaid campaign trea­surer. 
Joe Waldholtz is under fed­eral investigation in a $1.7 mil­lion check-kiting scheme; the couple's joint accounts in Salt Lake City and Washington are the subject of an investigation into alleged bank fraud. 
Mrs. Waldholtz has promised to explain personal and cam­paign financial troubles at a news conference Dec. 11. 
The Waldholtzes married in August 1993. During her first, failed cam­
paign, in 1992, she may have tapped money from a large family home, which property records show her father, D. Forrest Greene, had given her in 1986 as an early inheritance, the paper said. 
The transaction raises ques­tions about whether federal donation and loan limits for candidates were violated: Records suggest that she held the title, but did not disclose it among assets she held begin­ningJan.1,1993. 
Mrs. Waldholtz acknowledged through spokeswoman Ladonna Lee that "during the 1992 cam­paign, she sold the house (back to her father) to help fund her campaign." 
However, Salt Lake County property records indicate Mrs. Waldholtz did not pay off a $70,000 mortgage she had taken out on the Federal Heights home in 1986 until April 14, 1993 -more than five months after the election, the Deseret News said. 
Property records showed the title was not transferred back to Forrest Greene until Jo.ne 20, 1994, well into the 1994 cam­paign and nearly a year after Enid and Joe Waldholtz mar­ried. 

That suggests Mrs. Waldholtz still held the title, but she did not list it in later financial dis­closure forms among assets she held beginning Jan. 1. 1993. Not transferring title also could mean that Greene's house pay­ments to his daughter were technically a loan backed by a real asset, according to the newspaper. 
Loans are strictly regulated by federal law, which prohibits candidates from accepting con­tributions of more than $1.000 from any individual. 
The congresswoman believes the deal "was done in compli­ance with federal election laws and regulations," Lee said. 
In her 1992 campaign, which she lost to Democratic Rep. Karen Shepherd before defeat­ing her in 1994, Mrs. Waldholtz reported that she loaned her campaign $155,000, about one­third of what it spent. 
She reported personal assets of between $288,012 and $706,000, which meant the $155,000 was between 23 per­cent and 54 percent of her total assets. 
Mrs. Waldholtz has filed for divorce from her husband. He has declined comment on his wife's accusations against him. 

CAMPUS MINISTRY••• •••CONSIDERATIONS 
FACING THE CRUNCH WITH HOPE 
Taking the time to participate in retreats, like THE NOTRE DAME FRESHMAN RETREAT, to take place this weekend and three times next It's crunch time for many people at Notre Dame. Ifyou're like me, you semester, may help you to focus on the reasons to hope and the ways to bemixed feelings about the end of the semester. 
signs of realistic hope at Notre Dame and beyond. 

''"'"""''"'you're feeling the crunch yourself. It may be hard to believe that the Let's face the crunch with hope! 
paper you were assigned three months ago is due next week. It may seem hard to believe that the exam which will count for 99.9% ofyour grade will Bob Dowd, C.S.C. 
be given to you in two weeks. Alas, it's all true (except, maybe, the 99.9%)! 
The end of this half of the school year brings with it much work. Yet, the  
is the end, and it brings with it the promise ofsome rest, and more  THE NOTRE DAME FRESHMAN RETREAT  
a new beginning.  
Near the end it is time to really focus on what we need to do before it's all  Applications available to any interested freshman for  
over, knowing that the end will bring with it, in one way or another, a new  retreat to take place, tomorrow,Friday (4:00 p.m.) Through Saturday (6:00p.m.) 
beginning.  
Applications available at:  
The end ofone part ofour lives can be a time of hope. Considering the  The Campus Ministry Office  
challenges which face us, it's not always easy to face the future with hope.  103 Hesburgh Library calll-7800 or 1-5056  

maybe you have more reason to hope than you think. I'm not writing 

1aLIUlJlL a Pollyanna hope, a hope based on nothing. I'm writing about a 
based on reality, a hope based on people we know who have overcome obstacles which seemed to be insurmountable, a hope based on people who 
are living through tragedy and continue to be generous, a hope based on 
people who are living witnesses ofpersistence and determination, a hope 
based on our relationships with people we have come to know and love, and 
ultimately the hope based on the faith that somehow God is with and for us 
through these real people. 
is a time when the Catholic Church celebrates the hope based on 
experience that God is for us, although it may not always be in the way expect God to be for us. It is easy to become stressed and to feel like hope is something that only 
other people are able to do. 
we need to stop and consider why we have reason to face the 
with at least some hope. Maybe we need to stop and consider that present and the future hold more possibilities for us than we think. 
.. cu......a:. a few minutes at the beginning and the end of each day may help us 
to recognize our reasons to hope. 

FIRST SUNDAY OF ADVENT Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica 
Sat. December 2  5:00 p.m  Rev. David Scheidler, C.S.C.  
Sun. December 3  10:00 a.m.  Godfried Cardinal Danneels  
11:45 a.m.  Rev. Robert Dowd, C.S.C.  

SCRIPTURE READINGS FoR THIS COMING SUNDAY 
1ST READING  Isaiah 2:1-5  
2ND READING  Romans 13:11-14  
GosPEL  Matthew 24:3 7-44  


Thursday, November 30, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
U.S. decides to grant Mexicans political asylum 
By KELLEY SHANNON 
Associated Press 
SAN ANTONIO 

The United States is granting political asylum to a rapidly increasing number of Mexicans in what immigrant advocates say reflects growing recognition of human rights abuses in Mexico. 
"People are feeling a lot freer to criticize Mexico," immigra­tion attorney Monica Schurtman said. "There's start­ing to be a recognition that Mexico is a human rights abuser." 

But federal immigration of­ficials don't necessarily agree that persecution is the reason more political asylum requests from Mexicans are being grant­ed. 
the five basic facts • • • name maJor year dorm hometown BORED YET? Join COMMUNITIES ND to talk about more New Communities begin January 20, 1996 To sign up or for more information: Campus Ministry 103 Hesburgh Library or Badin Hall or call Kate Barrett or Darrell Paulsen at 631-5242 Do it today .. you'll be worrying about finals tomorrow! Com~tiesB 0MPUS MINISTRY  
World AIDS Day Dee.I,I995 A Mass will be held at 5:00pm~ Friday~ Dec. I in St. Edward's Hall Chapel. Please join us ­all are welcome! If there are any questions or concerns~ please call Anne at 4-3731  

"It is impossible to simply look at the numbers and make that kind of assessment," said Russ Bergeron, spokesman for the U.S. Immigration and Natu­ralization Service in Washing­ton. 
Specifics of each asylum case would have to be compared to determine the reasons for the increases and the INS can't dis­cuss individual cases because of confidentiality rules, Bergeron said. 
The INS granted 54 applica­tions for political asylum from Mexican citizens out of 9,304 received in fiscal year 1995, which ended Oct. 1. That was up from the nine granted out of 9,323 requests the previous year. 
"There's no doubt that that's a significant increase," Bergeron said, but he added that 54 is a small number com­pared to the total requests. 
The INS didn't grant any Mexican asylum requests in fis­cal years 1990-93. 
Immigration judges, who hear asylum requests after an INS officer has rejected them or when a person faces depor­tation, also have been granting more asylum requests. 
Four requests were granted by judges in fiscal 1995, up from just one in 1994 and 1993, according to the Executive Office of Immigration Review, the arm of the Justice Department that overseas immigration judges. 

The most recent ruling came this week in San Antonio. 
Judge Richard Brodsky ap­proved political asylum for Ana Maria Guillen, 39, of Matamoros, Mexico, who claimed she was retaliated against by Mexican authorities for her role in the Democratic Revolutionary Party and her attempts to expose election fraud. 
She fled Mexico after the 1992 elections, when she claimed she was falsely accused of criminal offenses. 
In her San Antonio hearing, her lawyers called witnesses and presented affidavits from witnesses who testified that some of her political colleagues were tortured by severe beat­ings. 
Ms. Guillen said she feared persecution if she returned home. 
Her attorney, Ms. Schurtman, co-director of the Immigration and Human Rights Clinic and St. Mary's University School of Law, said she believes Ms. Guillen's case will call attention to political repression in Mexico. 
"We're confident that it's going to make a difference," Ms. Schurtman said. "People are definitely paying attention." 
A State Department report this year is more critical than it has been in the past on human rights conditions in Mexico, Ms. Schurtman said. 
"As You Wish" lml?.orts Sweaters, Clothing, Jewelry, Accessories, and Much More! Guatemala • Peru • Mexico • NepalThailand • India • Ecuador INCREDIBLE PRICES! GREAT CHRISTMAS GIFTS! Unbelievable Bargain Corner Relocating Business .... EVERYTHING MUST Go/ •Proceed6 from thl6 corner go to Guatemalan Education Fund Other donation6 greatly appreciated! (I'm doing thie alone/ HELP/) LaFort;une -Room 108 Nov. 27-Dec.2 (Sat) ONLYl 10:00 am -5:00 pm  
Thinking ofdoing ayearofservice? How about doing it for alifetime? Have you considered THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 631-6385  

page 8 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, November 30, 1995 
Lawyers question Astronomers observe star 
By PAUL RECER brown dwarfs. Astronomers Hopkins discovery is genuine. 



tobacco industrialist 
Associated Press believed that such objects had "The thing is a brown 
By JACK ELLIOTT 
Associated Press 
PASCAGOULA, Miss. 

A tobacco industry whistle­blower who is said to have "devastating" inside infor­mation fielded questions Wednesday from lawyers for the U.S. Justice Department and the state, despite his for­mer employer's effort to silence him. 
Government sources in Washington, speaking on con­dition of anonymity, said Jef­frey Wigand met in private for several hours with lawyers from the Justice Department's antitrust division for an in­vestigation into whether to­bacco companies conspired to suppress development of safer, self-extinguishing cigarettes. 
Wigand, who was fired in 1993 as vice president of re­search at Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp.• also submitted to questioning by the Missis­sippi attorney general's office, which is suing 13 tobacco com­panies for reimbursement of millions of taxpayer dollars spent treating poor people with smoking-related illnesses. 
It wasn't immediately known whether federal prosecutors were also asking questions. 
Two federal criminal investi­gations are under way into whether tobacco industry ex­ecutives lied to Congress and regulators about smoking and the addictiveness of nicotine. 
"Jeffrey Wigand's testimony will be very devastating to the tobacco industry," Mississippi Attorney General Mike Moore said before the questioning began. "This is a man who had been on the inside for four years, a man who knows where all the bodies are buried, and we just want to see if we can find some of those bodies." 
Brown & Williamson, based in Louisville, Ky., sued Wigand last week, saying he violated an agreement binding him not to divulge "competitively sensi­tive" information when he talked to "60 Minutes." CBS killed the interview before it was broadcast, citing legal con­cerns. 
Later. Brown & Williamson got a restraining order from a Kentucky judge to stop Wigand from divulging inside informa­tion. 
However. a Mississippi judge ruled that the judge in Kentucky had no jurisdiction in Mississippi and that the taking of Wigand's deposition in the Mississippi lawsuit could pro­ceed. 
Wigand had no comment Wednesday as he left a ques­tion-and-answer session. 
Wigand reportedly told "60 Minutes" that Brown & Williamson scrapped plans to make a safer cigarette and con­tinued to use a flavoring in pipe tobacco that was known to cause cancer in laboratory ani­mals. 
Moore has accused the to­bacco companies of lying and altering research to hide the perils of smoking. 
He subpoenaed Wigand earli­er this month to testify in his lawsuit, and said he would ask about nicotine addiction, research activities, alleged fal­sification of records and other activities. 
Wigand was fired for telling "half-truths" and being "abu­sive to co-workers," company spokesman Tom Fitzgerald said. He wouldn't elaborate. 
WASHINGTON 
After decades of searching, astronomers have found con­vi-ncing evidence of a brown dwarf, a stellar wannabe that never quite made it to full star­dom. 
The object, located near a small star 19 light years from Earth, was first spotted using ground-based telescopes at Mt. Palomar in California, and then confirmed with an image taken by the Hubble Space Telescope. 
But the strongest proof came when astronomers at California Institute of Technology and Johns Hopkins University were able to identify methane in the faint glow given out by the object. 
That finding, said Shrivivas Kulkarni of Caltech, left no doubt. The object had to be one of the long-sought and elusive brown dwarves, he said. 
"We found methane," Kulkarni said in an interview. "No stars have methane. It is evidence of the object being cold. It is undeniably a brown dwarf." 
Theory first gave life to 
to exist as failed stars, stellar bodies that never quite gath­ered enough mass to set off the nuclear fires that cause stars to shine. To make a star, astronomers believe an object has to contain at least 80 times the mass of Jupiter, the gaseous planet that is the largest in our solar system. This creates enough gravita­tional compression to ignite fusion, the energy of stars. 
Believing in brown dwarfs and finding one were two dif­ferent things, however, said Sam Durrance, one of the Hopkins astronomers. 
"People have been looking very hard for one of these for more than 20 years," he said "There have been a lot of brown dwarf candidates, but most of them turned out to be low mass stars. 
"The unique thing about this object is that it is instantly recognizable as a brown dwarf by any astronomer." said Durrance. 
In reports to be published this week in both Nature and Science, other astronomers agreed that the Caltech and dwarf," Adam Burrows of the University of Arizona said in Science. 
The brown dwarf is 250,000 times dimmer than the sun and is thought to be the faintest object ever seen in orbit of another star. 
It is a companion to a small red star called Gliese 229 and is called GL229B. The object is 20 to 50 times more massive than Jupiter, but is about the same diameter, said Kulkarni. 
Durrance said the clincher for the discovery was finding methane in the spectrum of light emitted by the object. 
Methane can exist only in and about objects that are cool, by stellar standards, he said. 
The Caltech and Hopkins as­tronomers say their brown dwarf is only about 1,300 degrees in temperature, much cooler than the 7,000 to 8,000 degrees found on the surface of the sun and about half the tem­perature of even the smallest star. 
Durrance and Kulkarni said the brown dwarf has a chemi­cal signature very like that of the planet Jupiter. 







Tipper Gore lights up tree 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON As cold breezes blew across a 
snow-dusted lawn, Tipper Gore rode in a hydraulic 
l i f t 
Wednesday to crown the National Christmas 

Tree near Gore 
the White House with an illumi­nated, 36-inch, three-dimen­sional star. 
The vice president's wife was accompanied to the top of the 40-foot Colorado spruce on the Ellipse by John Betchkal, presi­dent of the Pageant of Peace Committee, and two local chil­dren-Diante Walker, 10, and his sister, 7 -year-old Kiona. 
After waving to spectators on the trip up, Mrs. Gore pointed out the White House to her young tree-topping colleagues and snapped a few pictures. 
The annual ceremony begins the decorating period for the 1995 Christmas Pageant of Peace. 
The tree ultimately will dis­play more than 6,000 lights, garlands, glowing beads and hologram ribbons, according to the National Park Service. 
President Clinton will light the tree Dec. 6. 

Thursday, November 30, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 9 

Poll finds teachers pleased with their salaries 
By SALLY BUZBEE 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Teachers like their jobs more today than a decade ago and are more likely to recommend the profession to others, a sur­vey found in a rare bright spot for public schools. 
One possible reason: Teach­ers are nearly twice as likely now than in 1985 to say their jobs pay them a decent salary, thtl poll donn by Louis Harris and Associates found. And more teachers felt they were reeognized when they had per­formed well. 
"There is a real, objective basis for these findings, and that is the rise in teacher salaries and the restructuring many schools have under­taken," said Linda Darling­Hammond, a researcher at Columbia Teachers College. 
But there was bad news, too. Urban teachers said public sup­port for schools plummeted in the last decade, while suburban teachers saw it rise. 
The survey released Wednesday found other evi­dence of what it called "a slow, steady and dangerous drift toward inequality" between urban and suburban schools. 
City teachers were less pleased with their schools' cur­riculums and academic stan­dards. 
And they worried more about problems like drugs, teen preg­nancy, overcrowded classrooms and violence than suburban teachers did. 
The survey, done annually 
since 1984 for the Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., was spon­sored this year by the Ed­ucation Commission of the States, a nonprofit group that provides information about ed­ucation to state lawmakers and governors. 
A random sample of 1,011 public school teachers were interviewed by phone nation­wide over the summer. The poll has a margin of error of plus or minus five percentage points. 
The survey found 54 percent of teachers very satisfied with teaching as a career compared to 44 percent in 1985. Two­thirds said they would recom­mend the career to young peo­ple. 
Seventeen percent agreed strongly that their jobs allow them to earn decent salaries, 
and 46 percent agreed some­what. That was up from 8 per­cent and 29 percent, respec­tively, a decade ago. 
Teachers' salaries steadily rose throughout that period before levelling off in the last few years, Darling-Hammond noted. The average public teacher salary nationwide last school year was $36,744, a recent teachers union survey found. 
In addition, many schools have undertaken reforms that give teachers more decision­making power, Darling-Ham­mond and others noted. 
"Teachers know more about what works in the classroom, and they have a clearer idea of their role," said Elaine Griffith, the nation's teacher of the year. 
Asked why they like their jobs, teachers most often men­tioned their students, the poll found. 
Asked what could be done to improve schools, teachers cited emphasizing discipline, empha­sizing basics such as reading and math, broadening the cur­riculum to include computers and foreign language and tight­ening graduation requirements. 
Those responses come at a time when one of the nation's two big teachers unions, the American Federation of Teach­ers, has begun a campaign to get principals and communities to agree to enforce tighter dis­cipline. 
The AFT campaign has been criticized by some liberal groups that believe it could result in unfair penalties for disruptive children. 

Neighbor confesses to Senator gets year of probation 
By PHILIP BRASHER refused the Justice Depart­tution.
twenty year old crime Associated Press ment's request to place Under federal sentencing Durenberger on home deten­guidelines, he could have re­
By MARGARET TAUS certainty and frustration," Nick WASHINGTON tion. ceived as much as 10 months in Associated Press O'Hara, supervisor for the state Former Sen. Dave Duren­Harris said he had received a prison or as little as four
Bureau of Criminal 
berger was sentenced to a year "remarkable collection" of 101 months of probation. He alsolAKE CITY. Minn. Apprehension, said Wednes­of probation and fined $1,000 letters from senators and other could have been fined as muchTwenty years after a small­day. 
Wednesday, ending the ethics supporters of Durenberger. as $500,000.
town mayor and his wife were case that destroyed his political Durenberger was indicted in Raymond Hulser, a Justiceshot to death, a former next­Claypool was jailed and was career. He told the judge he 1993 on felony charges that he Department lawyer, argueddoor neighbor has come for­expected to plead guilty to sec­already had "lost it all." improperly billed the Senate that probation without home ward and confessed he mur­ond-degree murder in the slay­The Minnesota Republican $3,825 for nights he spent in a detention wasn't a severe dered them when he was 14 to ings of Wilmer and Verona had pleaded guilty in August to Minneapolis condominium he enough punishment for some­see what it was like to kill. Strickland, who were found five misdemeanor charges that owned. one who "held a position of John Claypool, 34, kept the dead in their house on Dec. 21, he falsified his congressional The plea bargain agreement great power ... and prestige." 
secret until his conscience 1975, in this town about 60 
expense account to steal $425 he reached with prosecutors His voice breaking, Duren­could bear it no longer, inves­miles southeast of Minneapolis. 
in public funds. reduced the charges to misde­berger described how the case tigators said. Under state guidelines, Clay­Before sentencing him, U.S. meanors involving $425. had disgraced him in the Sen­"Thanks to the Almighty for pool could serve about 10 years District Judge Stanley Harris The charges stemmed from ate, made him the subject of giving .John Claypool the guid­in prison. 
called Durenberger a "fine an ethics investigation that hundreds of embarrassing 
ance and rnsolve to do what Authorities said he told them human being" who had resulted in Durenberger's being news stories, and cost him his was right and come forward, he was high on marijuana and "accomplished a lot." Harris denounced by the Senate in law license. Worse, he said, he ending the years of doubt, un-drunk the night of the killings. 
1990 and forced to pay resti-lost the confidence of voters. 
REMEMBERING THOSE WE HAVE LOST... 
The members of S.A.D.D. and the office of Alcohol and Drug Education invite you to join us on Thursday, November 40th for 
Two Special Events. 
I) We are asking you to wear something RED throughout the day on November 30 
and 
2) We hope you can join us at a CANDLE light vigil at 8:00pm at the war memorial 
The purpose of these events is to remember those who hove been lost due to o drunk driving incident ond to encourage the community to toke o stand ogoinst impaired driving. 
The vigil will begin at the war memorial at 8:00PM and at the Grotto. 
For Further Information, Please Call x7970 

~---------------------·~-------------a--~----------------~-----------------~------~-------------~----------~------~~~-------------------·--------~ 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Thursday, November 30, 1995 
• DESIDERATA 

Death penalty: Forgiveness better punishment 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• llOONESBURY 


• Om:m: Of THE DAY 
"Justice is a temporary 
thing that must at last come to an end; but the con­science is eternal and will never die." 
-Martin Luther 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
John Lucas 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Elizabeth Regan Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ...................... Jen Mackowiak Sports Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor .................... Pacti Carson Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Controller ...................................... Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the studenrs of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent rhe opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and nor necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-General Infonnation 6 31-7 4 71 4541 Business Office 631-5313 Sports 631-4543 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems/Marketing Dept. 63 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 8839 

~~~~~--..--~ 
Last week I turned twenty-five. I did not expect to wake up that morning feeling overjoyed about my quarter-of-a-century, but neither did I expect to wake up shaken. disturbed and almost in tears. Kirsten, I told myself, it's not so bad! But when I gained full con­sciousness, I realized that it was not growing older that had me so upset. I had had and awful dream, and it was not about myself. It was about George DelVecchio, the man that the State of Illinois had executed at 12:01 that morning, and about the horrific reality of the death penalty in general. 
I have written about my opposition to the death penalty several times I suspect that 
many of you are growing weary of it. Either you agree with me, and need no more persuasion, or you disagree, and nothing I say will change your mind. Nonetheless, Kirsten each time this beast called capital punishment takes another life, I Dunnefeel compelled to speak out once more and to pray for its abolition. 
I tend to shy away from statistics 
as arguments against the death penalty. While I have a whole stack of statistics in support of my position, we all know that statistics can be constructed in many ways and can support any argument one might wish to make. Instead, my resentment of the death penalty stems partially from legal principles and partially from inter­nal conviction. 
As a legal matter, I read the Eighth Amendment to flatly prohibit death as a possible punishment. Many would argue that the framers of our constitution did not intend such a reading, and I am somewhat inclined to agree. In 1791, capital punishment was not unusual and probably was not even considered all that cruel. However, if we read the constitution not as a set of sta­tic formulas but as a general framework of overarch­ing principles-as we should-we must conclude that today the death penalty is "cruel and unusual punish­ment." 
Its cruelty should need no explanation. But why is it unusual, when most states do, in fact, allow the sen­tence of death? It is unusual, for one, because if we take a broader world view, our country is failing to fol­low the global trend away from imposing the death penalty. Perhaps most importantly, it is unusual because of its ramifications for our rights under the constitution. As we all know, thanks to the O.J. case, a criminal defendant does not have to be proven guilty to a certainty to be convicted, but only to a reasonable 

doubt. Of course, a system requiring absolute proof of guilt would be unrealistic, but we must recognize that under our system, there might still be a doubt-even a very slight one-about whether a sentenced person is really guilty. And facts can come out after a sentence that cast a serious doubt on guilt. Jurors could have been bribed. Witnesses may have perjured themselves. Evidence may have been tampered with. When these things happen, a sentenced individual is entitled to a review of his case. He can get this if he has paid a fine; he can get it if he is in prison. But there's no way on earth that someone who has had his very life taken from him can get relief from a 
wrongful conviction. In the words of the illustrious Justice Brennan, "[a]n executed person has indeed lost the right to have rights." Furman v. Georgia, 408 U.S. at 290 (1972) (concurring opinion). 
But as I mentioned above, it is not only my interpretation of the law that tells me that capital 
punishment is unacceptable. It is 
my heart. I recently read an arti­cle about criminal defense attorney Bryan Stevenson, who shares my passion when it comes to abolishing the death penalty. He affirmed that he did not condone the crimes of his clients in the least, but reasoned that "when we execute someone, we're saying that life has no purpose. I've met people on death row are danger­ous or disturbed, but none about whom I could say, "This life has no purpose." I've had a lot less experi­ence than Mr. Stevenson, and I know only one person on death row. But I, like Mr. Stevenson never met a person whom I could call worthless and meaningless, and I am quite confident I never will. 
I also tend to be very forgiving, and it hurts me to hear people say, as the mother of George DelVecchio's murder victim did, that nay given person "deserves to die." Again, I've never lost anyone to murder, and I won't even pretend that I know what I'd feel in such an instance. But since so many death penalty proponents like to play the "put-yourself-in-that-position" game, I'll tell you what I think I'd feel. I'd be devastated. My pain and sense of loss would run so deep that they could not be verbalized. And a part of me would sure­ly be angry, because I would know that someone else was at fault for taking that person from me premature­ly. I'd bear resentment towards the one who did this to my loved one; to me; to others who were close to the murder victim. But would I be able to declare that the killer deserved death? I just don't think I could ever do that, and I'm not ashamed to say so. What's more, groups such as Murder Victim Families for Reconciliation are living proof that other people have felt this way not only in hypothetical situations, as is the case with me, but in painfully real ones. These people, who have been hurt as deeply as a person can be hurt, have still managed to find forgiveness in their hearts. I guess there is some hope after all. 

In the course of his interview with "People," Bryan Stevenson discussed a client of his who spent six years on death row before prosecutors admitted to using perjured testimony and withholding evidence. "I've learned to forgive, but it's hard not to be angry," he commented. My response? It's okay to be angry. It's only human. And that goes not only for those of us who oppose the death penalty, for people who have lost loved ones to murder as well. But before the latter group asks too hastily for death as retribution, they should think again about the other part of what Bryan Stevenson said. "I've learned to forgive." Can't they, too, learn this all-important lesson? 
Kirsten Dunne, ND '92 & '95, is working at the law firmof Goldberg, Weisman and Cairo, Ltd. in Chicago. 



VIEWPOINT
Thursday, November 30, 1995 page II 
• DIFFERENT PERSPECTIVES 
Waiting for miracles to happen at Notre Dame 
A lot can IH~ said for the expectations. When expnetations are high, wn antici­patn great things, and we become disap­pointed if those grnat things don't mate­rialize. Convt~rsnly, with low expecta­tions, wn become pleased with even modtwate success. 
Expectations may come from our life expt~riences, perhaps influenced by par­ents, relatives. tHachers, and friends. Tlwn tlwre arn tlw eollective expecta­tions of those in our current environ­nwnt (i.e. NI>J. 
So nw times. the high expectations of others prnssures us to perform ht~yo n d our own 
Melvin 

expectations. Orten, beeause of 

Tardy

high expeetations at ND. we push ourselves to new levels of academic exenllence and tmul to expeet athletic mirades. 
What about when expectations in our tmvironment are low? Some of us rise to the ehallenge. Our st~lf-confidence and t~stemn ean sturdy us against the occa­sional character assaults. However, evm1 a st~lf-assured person would find difliculty rising to his or her potential in a consistnntly negative environment. Daily aflirmations would be needed to stavn ofT st~lf-doubt and nven depression wlwn we an~ constantly told we don't have what it takes to succeed. 
In sports. this ~~oncept can be used to sonwone's advantage. "Trash-talking" is very common... and elTeetive. Look a guy in the t~y~~. harp on his mistakes, con­stantly tell him lw's a loser or that he can't stop you. and eventually he might just hnlitwn you ... even though he may bn as talentnd as you. Yet sports isn't tlw only plaee where this practice lWt:urs. 
In his hooks. "Countering the Conspiraey to Destroy Black Boys", vol­umns 1-111, author Jawanza Kunjufu points out how sdwols oftnn discourage tlw potnntial in Afriean American youth. By natum, kids tend to he optimistie. In nlerrwntary school years, there is little difference hntween tlw enthusiasm African-Anwrican and Anglo-American youth have for school. 
Unfortunatnly, teachers (who typically arn Anglo-Anwrican women) have low t~xpnetations for Afriean-Americans. Thus, in mixed setlings, African­American youth are less likely to be eallnd upon to answer questions and will receive less time, clues and encourage­ment to reach correct answers than their Anglo-American classmates. Branded "loud" or "trouble-maker" early on, many are steered towards the back row of seating charts and pick up a disproportionate share of detentions. It's no wonder that, by the time they reach fifth grade, many have beeome disinter­ested in school. 
Bright but desperate for attention, some resort to clownish behavior, 


endearing them to classmates but, unfortunately, pro­viding fodder for the "trouble-maker" labels. Of course, they get almost too much attention from athletie coaches. 
Some African-American parents are aware of this 
problem and pro­vide the necessary encouragement and discipline needed for success. They know that involvement in the school is the best way to ensure that teachers will adopt the same high expectations for their kids that they have. 
Unfortunately, too many either are not aware of such politics or, as single­working-parents, don't have the time to get involved. Moreover, many such par­ents have limited college experience, not through lack of interest but because it was illegal or physically risky for African-Americans to go to college, other than the "Negro" colleges, until the late 60s... barely one generation ago. We don't have many moms. dads or uncles to say, "I went to eollege and became a doctor (or lawyer, or accoun­tant), here's how you can, too." 
To eompound this, when African­Americans reach high school, guidance counselors don't encourage them to pur­sue accelerated classes or top universi­ties. Thrre is not sense or ownership with Afriean-Ameriean kids. Preparing them for eollege is an after-thought. When I visit high schools to discuss ND Admissions, Anglo-American guidance counselors always seem to find Anglo­American students for me to meet with, but rarely match me with top African­American students unless I specify this ahead of time; this. even when the school is 90 percent African-American. 
Sometimes, as a mentor, I'll ask a tnadwr about an Afriean-American stu­dent who's records show potential and they'll say the student doesn't study, isn't in any accelerated classes and is getting Cs and Ds, I'll go back in disgust to that teacher and ask them, "If this were your child, would you still consider this 'doing well'?" With a sense of own­ership, they'd surely encourage that child to do more th(ln just "Stay In School" and "Say No To Drugs." 
Despite the prestige of NO, when Afriean-Americans arrive here, they are again greeted with low expectations. With family support diminished (due to limited college experience or distance), coping can be even more difficult. 
For example, there is never shock expressed by counselors, teachers, nor classmates if we do poorly on a test or if we drop a elass. That is what is expect­ed of us. When my initial freshman grades were poor, due to inadequate study habits, I waited for shockwaves that never came. Rather than encour­agement, advisers discouraged Engineering, and roommates badgered me about SAT scores anytime I said something they felt unintelligent. "Trash-talking" never worked so well. I wound up believing them and succumb­ing to depression, rather than believing in myself and digging in. 
Low expectations make it difficult for African-Americans to be viewed as seri­ous students. For example, because stereotypes depict young African­Americans as violent, sueh students may approaeh teachers to inquire about a grade and be perceived as confronta­tional, rather than as an assertive or concerned student. Some teaehers assume African-Amerieans are inferior students and, as a result, only half­heartedly "waste their time" providing assistance. 
I mentioned study habits. For exam­ple, good time-management and study­ing in groups can be tremendously help­ful in college. The first-generation col­lege student cannot look to mom and dad for such study tips. Moreover, with­in the African-Ameriean community, excelling academically is sometimes frowned on because that is deemed being "white", or being a "sell-out." This shows the low expectations we, as African-Americans, ean have for one another. If academic excellence is "white", then what is "blaek"?" 
When African-American friends eome around, African-Americans switch from studying to socializing, perhaps to avoid looking "white, geeky". On the other hand, when we struggle, we don't tell anyone. "Everything's cool!", we say, because we're raised not to show a hurting face to the public. Too bad, that might not be just the friend to help us study ... or we might be the one for them. Thus, African Americans tend to study alone, as we did in high school, where no one can condemn (or help) us. 
Studying with Anglo-Americans can be a problem, too, because Anglo­Americans with low esteem often want to feel superior to the African-Ameriean in the study group. In some groups, peo­ple always seemed to argue my point while others' were taken for granted. A few, well-placed, "I ean't believe you didn't know that!" statements can shred already-tender sel(-esteem. Still, in graduate school, less intimidated and forced to rely on study groups, I became a much better student. 
Often, when I am speaking with African-American high school students about NO. they ask me about racism on campus. I tell them don't worry about overt racism, their biggest danger would be succumbing to the low expeetations of their professors and classmates. 
Similarly, African-Amerieans are rou­tinely denied credit or forced to pay higher interest rates for home, car and business loans because we are deenwd "high credit risks", regardless of our own personal credit history. 
Such expectations come from media stereotypes, ethnocentric assumptions and standards that promote Anglo­American superiority, and the dearth of African and African-American accom­plishments in history books, among other things. Also, we tend to focus more eon the failings of African­Americans, providing fodder for our low expectations, than the positive accom­plishments. 
With expeetations are high, we expect good things to happen. Although some say don't expect even a half-dozen tenured African-American faculty, don't expect African-Amerieans to excel acad­emically at ND and don't expect race­relations to improve, we must not suc­cumb to such low expectations! Let's trade "trash-talking" for a supportive eommunity. Let's have faith that God has higher expectations for our University, and has provided all that we need to aehieve sueh great things. Aftnr all, we expect miraeles at Notre Dame, don't we? 
Melvin Tardy is Assistant Director of Admissions for ND. His e-mail address melvin.r.tardy.l@nd.edu 

• r\li;IY :jj[ ri.H:Lr i:~. WITH YOU 
Ethics and the Internet: Where women fit in 
Tlw top 75 nmsons why women should not have frm~dom of spnech, a list packnd with degrading com­mPnts towards wonwn, appeared on my computer s1:reen last wnek. This was a list advising females to "go hack to tlw good old days when nwn were men and wom1~n wt~re ribs." As an lnwrnet user interested in the 
glorification of Playboy romance and sexist trivia. I was in for a tn•at. 
f<'tlr tlw n~st of you. this list is 


Kara 

useful as a case study in the distribution of non-ethical mate­rial on-linP. Hhics SIHHns to bn a 

Pavlik 

popular issue tlwsn days. A hot topic: for "tlw decade of the politically corTerl." 
l·:vt~ryday wn are bombarded with rwws about morality, especially in the workplace. Hncnntly I n~ad that Lotus Developnwnt Corp .. the soft­warn maker, rrnatnd a "soul committl~e" to explore the spiritual issues that concern employees. Howard Schultz. the entrnpreneur who began Starbucks Coffee Company boasts about putting his mnployees before his custonwrs. (At Starhucks even part-time employees an~ t~ligihle for lwalth ~~am.) And everywhere I turn I lwar of corporations who value our First Amendment and hPiinve tlw lnll~rnnt should remain an unfettered version on-line while looking for information on the Milky Way? Isn't this an issue of innocence unneces­sarily lost as well as an issue of free speech? 
Curtailing a child's youth is not a happy outgrowth of our First Amendment right. Free speech sometimes comes at a terrible price considering that the on-line world is quickly falling victim to smut, sexually explicit material and financial seams. But the Internet is basi­cally untamable -at least by existing laws. On-line restraints would not survive the First Amendment test. And restrictions would certainly pose jurisdictional problems. 
Although the Internet is global, 
what is legal is not. Those wishing 


to avoid the social mores of their government via the Internet could not ask for an easier way of doing so. The electronie Penthouse, for example, lists the countries where its content is forbidden and asks the people not to look. 
Also, taking a righteous stand on regulating improper material on the Internet will not lead to a righteous 
outcome. In faet, many believe that government agencies eyeing to regulate the Internet will lnad the American people through a reactionary period; a sort of McCarthyism revisited with the gov­ernment going after people who pollute the minds of children. 
But this seems far fetched considering when ethical dilemmas arise these days most of us look at a prob­lem, think about it for a second and immediately go on with our lives. A moment of hesitation does wonders for starving off guilt. 
among us are disturbed enough to act. 
Americans take no responsibility for what appears on-line. We have no idea who should monitor the data. The Federal Communications Commission? The Federal Trade Commission? Maybe State govern­ments? And even if data is monitored, will the First Amendment allow information to be censored? If something offensive is eensored, is this tampering'? 
The questions surrounding Internet regulation are endless. But instead of dealing with the questions we wait around for an ethical boom. We say we're ready to act, argue that offensive material has no right to be on-line and ought to be removed, yet do nothing about 
it. ­As future parents and professionals. we are likely to bear the consequences of an unregulated Internet. 
Those of us concerned with protecting the ethical material on-line and downplaying the Internet as a transmitter of smut need to be more concerned about the direction in whieh this broadcast medium is head­ing. Accepting the Internet as it stands and hoping for improvement is much like marrying a man who's alHJ­sive in the hope you can reform him. 
'In all reality, the Internet is a representation of the world in whieh we live, bringing the good along with the bad. And recent legislation designed to prevent the distribution of indeeent material on-line cannot be passed because it violates our right to frell speech. 
In other words, people like myself who are opposed to the vast amount of non-ethical data appearing on­line cannot expect the government to provide a solu­tion. We can shun what we lind offensive, closely scru­tinize what children are doing and encourage software that will allow parents to block access to inappropriate data. 
vehide of free spm~ch. I hope most clearheaded individuals would be briefly This appears to be the ethical solution for cleaning Why, you may ask, is this a problem? What about disturbed with 75 reasons why women should not have up the Internet, at least for the moment. 
your R-yt~ar-old nit~ce who stumbles across sexual per-freedom of speech appearing on the Internet. But few Kara Paulik is a senior at Saint Mary's. 




ACCENT
page 12 Thursday, November 30, 1995 
THE BEST OF THE BEST 



Accent's music critics pick their top ten albums of 1995 

ter the relatively mild success in the U.S. with The Bends is full of surprises to first time Radio head heir first full length CD Pablo Honey, Radiohead listeners, and for previous fans, it gives a bold new ove head first into the Ainerican market with angle to their earlier work and style. 
their latest addition to record store shelves, The Bends. The Bends is a completely different album, but is Comparatively mild with respect to the fast paced, incredible in its own right. This British one-hit-wonder loud and raw Pablo Honey, The Bends is a brilliant has much more to offer than the majority realizes, and concoction of guitars, orchestration and vocals. The Bends is a step in the right direction to gain ac­
Lead singer Thorn Yorke's unlimited range provides ceptance into the realm of new music. the perfect accompaniment for the band's intricate, soft, yet hard at times music. With the ability to write The best of the rest: 
great songs that combine acoustic guitar with two 2. The Tragically Hip-Day For Night electrics that are driving out heavy distortion puts 3. Smashing Pumpkins -Mellon Collie and the Radiohead in a league of their own. Infinite Sadness 
Some highlights on the album include "Planet Telex" 4. Passengers -Original Soundtracks 1 which destroys the expectation of The Bends being a 5. Ani DiFranco -Not A Pretty Girl hard and loud album. The title track, "The Bends," has 6. Lisa Loeb and Nine Stories -Tails the capability of being taken for all its worth as it 7. Meat Puppets -No Joke grows in intensity. A slower, more delicate sound, 8. The London Philharmonic Orchestra-Us and 
Radio head complete with cello, viola and violin that do justice to Them: Symphonic Pink Floyd the haunting, angst filled vocals is found on the hit 9. Matthew Sweet-100% Fun
The Bends 

"Fake Plastic Trees." 10.The Tea Party-The Edges ofTwilight 
U
nless you count Morrissey-and most people don't-1995 was kind of a quiet year for musical men. Alanis Morissette's confessional rants, the mysterious poetry of the Innocence Mission, and Joan Osborne's bluesy Relish all captured critical acclaim 
= 

and/or mucho cash. 1995 was ladies' year. All took a distant back seat to the pride of Iceland, the incomparable Bjork. Her second solo album, Post, is the first conclusive evidence that leaving the Sugarcubes was a good career move. Oh, that voice! Bjork isn't blessed with great range or technical skill, but she can flat out sing. She slurs through "The Modern Things" like a snake through ferns. On "lsobel" and "I Miss You," grace is cast aside for sheer intensity. 
The prize of the album is "Hyper-Ballad." A song about security in a relationship-actually, it's about

Bjork 

throwing cutlery off a cliff-it is, lyrically and musically, #1 Post the best and most intense track on the album. 
e 
I
magine yourself trapped in a world without variety or fun in music, where every indie band or alterna­tive superstar is too worried about style and selling out to put out a truly fun album, one full of experimen• tation, humor, and fla~r, · Luckily, Pavement doesn't exist in a vacuum. Their 
fourth Matador release, Wowee Zowee, shatters any indie stereotypes that may have been held about these five cryptic cynics, guys who seem to transcend the art 
= of sarcasm in music and make it a true statement. WZ is a truly disjointed album, and the wide array of
Q 

musical genres toyed with by Pavement on shows that they are true lovers of songcraft. Pop masterpieces are churned out left and right . 
Lyrics such as "Sunday drive past your own hall of fame/it's closed on weekdays/shut for good," are often murky at first, but after repeated listenings, one can
#1 
Pavement sense singer Stephen Malkmus' dry, acerbic, yet play­
fully honest sense of humor. 

Wowee Zowee 

Fear not, alternateens, if you are misled into think­
A
s rare as a Northwestern victory over Notre Dame (although not as much fun), Wrecking Ball was the album Emmylou Harris and Daniel Lanois were put on this planet to make. From the ethe­real strains of the Lanois-penned "Where will I Be" to the great plains sound of "Waltz through Texas" Wrecking Ball's soundscape surpasses anything else produced this year. 
...... Julie Miller's gospel number "All my Tears" gets a spooky yet jubilant reworking, Anna McGarrigle's "Goin' back to Harlan" gets the wistful treatment, and
E-4 

Dylan's "Every Grain of Sand" sounds like it could have been written with Harris in mind. 
Daryl Johnson's high harmonies are the perfect com­plement to Emmylou's soprano, U2's Larry Mullen Jr.'s keeps things fluid yet anchored in the rhythm depart­ment, and Lanois' guitar work has never sounded so

#1 
Emmylou Harris inspired. 

Wrecking Ball Simple arrangements, pristine production, and 
R
ed Medicine, Fugazi's sixth release, experiments with the band's patented, and often stolen, sound while maintaining breathtaking intensity. Unlike 

the loud and screaming "In on the Kill Taker," the songs are a little slower, focusing more on lyrical inten­sity and instrumental experimentation. For example, on "Forensic Scene" singer Guy Picciotto leans more towards whispering in contrast to his screaming on past songs like "Public Witness Program." 
"Bed for the Scraping" lays buzzing guitar lines over a bouncy bass line and the reggae influences drums beats to create one of the band's best songs ever, while "Back to Base" and "Downed City" simply rock with adrenaline-raising punk vigor. Fugazi proves again that few other bands can convey emotion better. 
#1 
However, the production and art direction of Red Medicine vault Fugazi into my number one spot. The Fugazi live sound of Red Medicine drops the listener right in the studio, and the drums sound as if they're right

Red Medicine 

behind your head. The tour and studio photos enclosed 
L..__________________________ --------------------­



What makes Post a masterpiece is the fact that it isn't interchangeable with anything else. How many groups could .have recorded ''I'll Be There For You?" From the first notes of the album. there could only be one singer. There is, for better or for worse, only one Bjork. 

The best of the rest: 
2. 
The Innocence Mission-Glow 

3. 
Alanis Morissette -Jagged Little Pill 


4. Tears For Fears-Raoul and the Kings dfSpain 
5. Various Artists -Help 
6. 
Morrissey -Southpaw Grammar 

7. 
Joan Osborne-Relish 


8. Deep Blue Something -Home 
9. Poe -Hello lO.Primus -Tales From the Punchbowl 
ing Pavement has gone mainstream without warning; there are still plenty of anthems of adolescent angst to be hummed, such as "Fight this Generation," "Kennel District," and "Rattled hy the Rush." "Grounded," an d intensely moving commentary on doctors and death,'., seems to sum up the album best; it is in the vein of Pavement's storied post-punk pop past. but it shows a new direction for the boys from Stockton who refuse to be categorized. 

The best of the rest: 
2. 
Belly-King 

3. 
Juliana Hatfield-Only Everything 

4. 
Monsoon -self-titled 

5. 
Sugar-Besides+ bonus live CD 

6. 
Guided By Voices -Alien Lanes 


7. 
Grateful Dead-Hundred Year Hall 

8. 
Pink Floyd-Pulse 

9. 
Freddy Jones Band-North Avenue Wake Up Can 


10. Phish -A Live One 
strong songs have always been Lanois trademarks, but he has never had a voice as magical as Harris' to work with. And Harris, for her part, has never had a collab­orator as talented as Lanois to work with. Together they created the musical highlight of the year. This isn't "progressive" country, this is very definitely "arrived" country. 

The best of the rest: 
2. 
Charlie Sexton Sextet-Under the Wishing Tree 

3. 
Adventure in Afropea-Staring at the Sea 


4. Toumani Diabate -Djelika 
5. 
Rickie Lee Jones-Naked Songs 

6. 
Neil Young-Mirror Ball 

7. 
Warren Zevon-Mutineer 


8. 
Varttina-Aitara 

9. 
Hawaiian Slack Key Guitar Masters 


10. Lloyd Cole-Love Story 
with the liner notes complement this sound and could well be hung in an art museum due to their artistic merit. 
Overall, it's hard to put in words how good this album 
is, so I'll just resort to cheesy music critic conventions: "Do you like me?" singer Guy Picciotto asks. Yes! Or how about... Red Medicine is THE cure for your 
indie-rock blues! 

The best of the rest: 
2. Sunny Day Real Estate-self-titled 
3. The Queers-Move Back Home 
4. Unwound -self-titled 
5. 
Primus-Tales From The Punchbowl 

6. 
Guns 'N' Wankers-self-titled 

7. 
Pond -The Practice ofJoy Before Death 

8. 
Various Artists-"Attaining The Supreme" 


9. 
Quicksand-Manic Compression 


10. Morphine -Yes 



ACCENT
Thursday, November 30, 1995 page 13 
• CONCERT REVIEW 
Waking up Notre Dame 
Freddy Jones Band entertains an enthusiastic crowd at Stepan Center 
By DOMINIC DEVITO MusicCriric 
F
rom underneath tho rigid plastic geodesic tiles that compose the roof of Stepan Center, Freddy Jones Band conquered the cavernous acoustic nightmare with a blistering set last night. For a band near the end of a three-month tour, they certainly didn't seem to be running on fumes at all as they churned out one new crowd favorite after another from their recent release, North Avenue Wake Up Call. In addition, they spiced up old standards with interesting jams and segues. 
Vocalist/guitarist Marty Lloyd said the band was "very happy with the crowd," noting that the last Stepan per­formance was an under publicized nightmare for the band. This time, a near-capacity crowd showed up ready to dance and sing along with this Chicago sextet. Opening up with a powerful "Old Angels," the band seemed locked in high gear and ready to rock the crowd through this dillicult pre-finals time. "One World" fol­lowed with a flowing reggae-style beat, and the Paul Simon-esque "Late This Morning" came later, complete with a new extended introduction. 
Hhythm guitarist's Hob Bonaccorsi's "The Other Side" followed, featuring a ripping blues organ solo by recently added keyboardist Simon Sweet. Although sometimes buried underneath the acoustically unfriendly glass, plastic, concrete, and steel of Stepan Center, Sweet's playing definitely added a new dimension to the already exciting live sound of Freddy Jones Band. 
After ripping through the current popular single, "Waitress," the band slowed things down a notch with "Peace by Piece," and "Rain," which showed Sweet to be a competent piano player as well. 
The band then turned "it" to high gear and never downshifted. "The Puppet" was concluded by a two­minute-long drum solo, which started with just percus­sionist Simon Horrocks, but ended with the entire band banging away at the drum set. From the closing echoes of this cacophony came FJB's most recognizable tune, "In a Daydream." which featured multiple extended jams by lead axeman Wayne Healy. Later on, another gem from an earlier album, "Take the Time," started to a roaring crowd response, and it momentarily led into "Baba O'Reilly (Teenage Wasteland)" by The Who before returning to its original form. This song, along with "In a Daydream," took up the better part of 25 minutes, but they were never boring, as some live jams can sometime be. The men of Freddy Jones appear to be able to sense when the dynamic of a jam may be waning and to let it end there, before it becomes an exercise in musical futil­ity. 
To finish up, Bonaccorsi got another turn at the mic with "Crosscut Saw," which culminated in a long blues jam with an extra guitarist, that being Simon Sweet's twin brother. From the ashes of a weary climax, a com­mon symptom of life on the road, the band was able to summon up enough strength to end on an extremely happy note. The much-anticipated country/funk hoe­down, "Dixie Dynamite" exploded from the gates, as 
self-titled 
2. 
Spooky:ruben-modes oftrans portation vol.l 

3. 
Pet Shop Boys-Alternative 


4. 
Four Rooms Soundtrack 

5. 
Spacehog-Resident Alien 


6. Smashing Pumpkins-Mellon Collie and the Infinite Sadness 
7. Garbage-self-titled 
8. Lir-Nest ·lj 

9. 
Dog's Eye View-l(qppy Nowhe,l 


10. 
MaU Rats Soundtl\ck 

11. 
A Testimonial Dinner-A Tribute toXTC It 

12. 
The Sbamen-Axis Mutants 


13. Cow~y Junki!t~W more miles 
14. 
Blur-the great escape· 

15. 
Moonpools an~ Caterpillars­


Lucky Dumpling· 

16. Barry Black~lf-titled 17. 
Sweet strapped on a gigantic accordion and the crowd ::::====~===~~========~ 
danced with exuberance. "Dixie" was highlighted by a neat "Stayin' Alive" break in the middle, and while disco will never be the band's forte, it made for good drama. Then the band bid the semi-hometown (Healy and Lloyd started the band while students at Holy Cross Junior College) crowd good night and hit the road for yet anoth­er gig on the never-ending tour . 
• CONCERT PREVIEW 


A TASTE OF MICHIGAN 
By Cf I RISTIAN STEIN Music Editor 
AJ
nn Arbor, Michigan's hottest new hand, Whirling Hoad. bring their own brand of rock and roll to Stmior Bar tonight. This live man group is plugging tlwir latest mlease Twelve Steps Below Walnut, and are sure to pleasll the Notre Dame crowd with a varying array of music ranging from folky acoustic sets to melo­dramatic rock interludes. 
Whirling Hoad's music is a strange collection that con­jums up images of laid back slow jam, revolutionary pop, and dark. solemn alternative. Twelve Steps Below Walnut twists and turns as each song presents a diiTer­tmt vision as several band members including Chris Peters, Drew Peters, and Kevin Gill alternate on lead voea~ guitar, and drum duties. 
It is difTicult to predict what Whirling Hoad will bring to Notre Dame, a task as difficult as predicting what the rwxt song on this new release will sound like. Their rela­tively conservative sound is sure to be accepted and pro­vide a solid follow up to last night's Freddy Jones Band concert. 
This is not to say that either band sounds remotely sim­ilar, in fact, they are on opposite ends of the rock and roll spectrum. llowever, their fan base should overlap and those of you who enjoy the popish, psychedelic folk that Freddy Jones plays will certainly be impressed by Whirling Hoad, even though their sound lacks consisten­cy-but in a good way. 
Variance is the trademark of Whirling Road and this characteristic is well displayed on Twelve Steps Below Walnut. The album begins with "Alright," a mellow but catchy song that gets you singing along to the chorus after one listen. Following up "Alright" is a song that explores the realm of indio, complete with fast strummed guitars that is heavily distorted yet still maintaining a slight twang. The pleading, strained vocals of Drew Peters compliment the guitars and also contrast the more harmonious voice of Kevin Gill on "Alright." 
Further on in the album, Whirling Road returns to the folk/country sound they open with, once again following the curves in the musical road. "Taken By" is an excel­lent concoction of rhythm and melody, but is quickly replaced by the next song "Small" which reminds the lis­tener of Tom Petty with an added touch of blues. 
"With Eachother" is an exceptional display of diversity as the band delivers a happy love ballad blending sounds often associated with Drivin' 'N Cryin' with an added plateful of sarcasm. This song should quickly become the ballad of the night as Whirling Road belts out -really belts out -the great chorus, "Lets have one/and another/let's fornicate with eachother." 
If Whirling Road is capable of duplicating their talents found on Twelve Steps Below Walnut, tonight's show should be an awesome time. Judging from their fan response at The University of Michigan and surrounding area, which has been phenomenal, they will live up to expectations. 
By no means will there be a mosh pit at Senior Bar, but this band is not out there to get the audience thrashing; instead, their music is the perfect accompaniment for a night of hanging out at Senior Bar. 
.,.,.,,un:;l!l•r11 nthology 
2. Bruce Springsteen-Ghost of Tom]oadt, 
3. 
Garth Brooks-Fresh Horses 

4. 
Ozzy Osbourne-Ozzmosis 

5. 
Melissa Etheridge-Your Little Secret 

6. 
Rolling Stones-Stripped 


7. Alice in Chains-self-titled 
8. Alanis Morissette-Jagged Littl~ Pill 

9. 
Kenny Shepard-Ledbetter 


10. 
Presidents of the United States-self-titled 

11. 
CooUo-Gangsfll's Paradise 

12. 
R. Kelly-self-titled 13. Smashing Puq1pkins-Mellon 


Collie and the Infinite Sadness 

14. 
Tha Dogg Pound;.Dogg Fooq, 

15. 
Souqdtrack ··, ,¥( 


•· 
.. 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, November 30, 1995 

Classifieds 

NOTICES Mark's Towing  Found-Very unique piece of jewel­ry. Write to PO Box 111, NO 46556 with full description. Found Bracelet in CCMB -Call 1­ Two genial guys looking for rides home to Eastern Mass. over Christmas break. Will split gas/tolls/etc. If you can only take one of us home, that's fine too.  FOR RENT .I L..HO_M_E_S_F-OR_R_E_N_T-NE_A_R_N_D--.1  85 Jimmy 4x4 Low miles great cond. $45oo 273-4762 I PERSONAL  Dear Mr. Liberal House, Compared to you, mashed potatoes taste like onions! Love, Someone what  
Roadside Service,Tire Changing,  4178 to identify or claim.  Please call Tom x1173 or Marty  232-2595  .  likes you a LOT!  
Jumpstarts,Many Services ..  x3419 as soon as possible.  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  
We Accept Checks & Charge  READY NOW FOR SPRING  LaFortune Student Center  He's coming, he's coming.  
Student & Senior Discounts  FOUND: light weight prescription  NEED PERSON TO EDIT 1/2 IN.  SEMESTER  We're open for your conveniencell!  DWAYNE GOODRICH, the future  
• Damage Free Towing  lens, outside the bookstore.  VIDEO TAPE FOR PUBLIC  3·4 Bedroom 2 blks from campus  Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight  of our defensive backfield is coming  
• 24 Hours • Motor Club Servicer  Probably buried under snow before  ACCESS (local cable TCI) SHOW.  Newly remodeled with W/D OW  Fri.: 7:30am· 7:00pm  this weekend!!!  
Ph#(219)271-2382  it melted.  NICE HISTORIC PIECE.  Fridge Stove Huge Yard  Sat.: Noon· 6:00pm  
WILL INSTRUCT.  Full Basement and Monitored  Sun.: Noon-Midnight  Tonight our bed is cold  
Friday 7 & 9:30 Sunday 1 & 3  Ryan x1648, 323 St. Ed's  289-2906.  Security Sys Included  (closed home football Saturdays)  I'm lost in the darkness of our love  
The Santa Clause  $240/person or $900/mo  God have mercy on the man  
Carroll Auditorium, SMC $2  LOST:  Will help individuals needing a  who doubts what he's sure off  
Sponsored by SAB  $35.000/YR. INCOME potential.  room.  0C0C000C000C0C0o0o0c0  
SOMEONE MISTAKENLY TOOK  Reading books. Toll Free 1-800·  Call Mike @ 233-9609 for details  QUALITY COPIES, QUICKLY!!!  Cats and dogs living together!  
Spring Break Bahamas Party  MY CALCULUS BOOK  898-9778 Ext. R-2013 for details.  THE COPY SHOP  
Cruise! Early Specials! 7 Days  AND NOTEBOOK ON MONDAY,  LaFortune Student Center  ADOPTION  
$279! Includes 15 Meals & 6  11/13, FROM THE COPY SHOP IN  Wanted!!  One person furnished apt.  Phone 631-COPY  A wonderful home awaits your  
Parties! Great Beaches/Nightlife!  LAFORTUNE.  Individuals, Student Organizations  3.5 miles from campus  0o0c0c0c0o0c0o0o0o0c0  baby. Happily married, financially  
Prices Increase 11/21 & 12/15!  PLEASE CALL HANY 233-8273  to Promote  Must see  secure couple will give much love.  
Spring Break Travel 1-800-678­ OR TAKE TO LAFORTUNE  SRING BREAK Earn MONEY and  Call after 6:00 232-0355  DON'T YOU CARE ABOUT YOUR  Expenses paid. Call Margaret or  
6386  INFORMATION DESK.  FREE TRIPS  HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT?!?  Peter at 800-529-8386.  
CALL INTER-CAMPUS PRO·  ATTRACTIVE SINGLE ROOM  I thought so....  
Spring Break! Panama City! Early  GRAMS  Available now. Can be reserved for  Unique gift ideas which you are  ... it's been four days now  
Specials! 8 Days Oceanview Room  I lost my BLUE PULLOVER JACK­ http://www.icpt.com  95-96. $200 Mo. Female Only.  bound to like. Check it out!  
With Kitchen $129! Walk To Best  ET at Senior Bar last week.  1·800-327 -6013  282-2576  Not sold in stores! Call 634-2113.  three blind mice  
Bars! Key West $259! Cocoa Beach  three blind mice  
Hilton $169! Prices Increase 11/21  If you have seen it it would be  WANTED FOR XMAS GIFT: Video  Furnished house for rent. Seeking 2  Student Activities is still accepting  see how they run  
& 12/15! 1-800-678-6386  greatly appreciated if you could  tapes of 1995 NO Football Season.  female roomates, 1 mile from NO  applications for:  see how they run  
return it.  NAME YOUR PRICE.  campus. 3 bedrooms, basement,  STEPAN BUILDING MANAGERS  
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break  402-551-8436  fenced in yard, new stove and trig.  BUILDING SET UP CREW  she cut off their heads  
Specials! 111% Lowest Price  $$$$$$$$$$  Avail. Jan 2. Call219·923-7246  SOUND TECHNICIANS  
Guarantee! 7 Nights Air From South  LOOKING TO HIRE-LOCAL  Pick up applications at 315  
Bend & Hotel From $419! Book Early! Save $100 On Food/Drinks!  Call Greg Sinnott at 4-2055.  WEEKLY NEWSPAPER PAN­NYSAVER!TIMES SEEKING  FOR SALE  LaFortune. Deadline Wed, Dec 6. For information call 631-7308.  Hey all you RAVE dogs- 
Spring Break Travel1-800-678­ JUNIOR/SENIOR ACOUNTING  
6386  LOST­ MAJOR TO HELP ACCOUNTING  SPEAKER: Liner Phase Studio  ATTENTION Gay/Lesbian/Bisexual  Have you figured out the  
ONE CERAMIC INFANT  DEPT. PART-TIME HOURS AVAIL­ Monitor ... like new. Great for parties  students, faculty and staff!  
Anyone going to the  MESSIAH. LAST SEEN  ABLE M-F. CALL GERRY MOTT  & bands. $250 OBO. Jeff 233­ Student run support group meeting  PASSWORD  
Springsteen concert at  BEING ADORED IN NORTH  282·4419 OR FAX 282-4415  2460.  this Thursday at 7:30 pm. Please  
-~  Rosemont on 12/3? 2 people need a ride!  DINING HALL. RESPONDS TO GESU, LORD, LAMB OF  .............. ,., ..........-------------------­ call the Q-Line at 287-6665 for loca­tion.  yet? Stay tuned .........  
Call Kath x2930 ILOST & FOUND I  GOD. HEAVENLY REWARDS OFFERED. FOUND: 1 Large gold hoop earring  Babysitter needed. Some evenings or weekends. $5/hr-own car pre­ferred. Call Bobby at 236·6170(W) or 272-5917(H)  Hey Ski Buffs ... NO Ski Team T-shirts Only $10!  ..................... . ---------------------­ND/SMC BALLROOM DANCE Excursion to  In the meantime, whip out those adidas and get ready for a night of explosive and experimental chaos. B.Y.O.X  
bet. Nieuwland & Lafortune. Call  DAN 0' DAY'S Ballroom  
!II!!!! LOST !!1!!111  x3252  NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ Call today and receive your shirt  • Meet@ 7:15 tonight in the Rock  
Positions are now available at  folded for no extra charge! Wowl  lobby  
r  Prescription Glasses Brown/orange and black around  WANTED  National Parks, Forests & Wildlife Preserves. Excellent benefits +  Potter @ 232-2955 *******"********"****-------------------­ • Open Dance 8·1 0 • Transportation provided.  GEORGE AND THE FREEKS The new CD is here!!!  
lenses. Thin gold frames.  bonuses! Call: 1-206-545-4804 ext.  • Admission free for all paid  Join Us at the release party:  
Light weight lenses.  • • • FREE TRIPS & CASH • • •  N55843  The Dating Handbook-2002 Things  members.  SATURDAY, DEC. 2nd  
Lost during last week of Oct-now.  Find out how hundreds of students  to do on a Date. Fun, Silly,  Come and dance the night away!  Dalloway's Coffeehouse, SMC  
Call Mike@ 10782  are already earning FREE TRIPS  CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING­ Romantic, Unique-132 pages.  **********************-­------------------­ 8:00 Leonard Jones Potential  
and LOTS OF CASH with  Earn up to $2,000+/month working  $8.95 to Goshen Publishers, 422  10:00 George & the Freeks  
LOST: pair of gold hoop earrings,  America's #1 Spring Break compa­ on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­ W. Lincoln Hwy, Suite 121, Exton,  Dear Elvis,  CO's $10.00  
pair of pearl earrings, gold necklace  ny! Sell only 15 trips and travel free!  panies. World travel. Seasonal &  PA 19341  I'm glad that you're alive and I want  All ages; No cover charge!  
with heart charm, and diamond ring.  Choose Cancun, Bahamas,  full-time employment available. No  to thank you for the flowers, but I'd  JOIN US ON THE RIDE ...  
WHERE: Alumni Hall  Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL NOW!  experience necessary. For more  rather do it in person, so would you  
WHEN: Friday night -11/10  TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAV·  information call 1-206-634-0468  Glass Front Hutch. Solid Wood.  please make yourself known?  just like a dream  
CONTACT: X-1407 with any info.  EL (800)95-BREAK!  ext. C55842  $250 Call 282-2576.  Love, Carnation Girl  you are not what you seem  

' 

Thursday, November 30, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• GOLF 
Kite eyes Ryder Cup challenge 
By RON SIRAK 
Associated Press 
The selection process? No problem. Captain's choices? Deal with that later. Beating Hurope? All in due time. For now, Tom Kite is focused on be­ing the first player-captain in the Hyder Cup in 34 years. 
"I plan on playing much bet­ll~r in '96 and '97 and actually playing on the tmun," Kite said Wednesday after I'GA of Anwriea president Tom Addis introduced him as captain of the 1997 Hyder Cup team. 
Neitlwr side has had a player­eaptain sine•~ Arnold Palmer did it in 1%3. 
Addis. srwaking along with Kiln in a conference call from I'GA l11~adq uarters in Palm Bnach (;anlnns, Fla.. said Kite was snlectNI because "an event of this nature mquims a strong and an expnrienced leader that has a special love for the game of golf." 
Kitn had displayed that love through a dogged deter­mination since turning pro in 1972. And if Player Kite gets his ganw hack in shape, it could be the best thing he could do for Captain Kite. 
lln'll takn a team to Spain in I 997 that has won only two of the last six Hyder Cups and in this year's losing effort against Europe was short on the kind of grind-it-out player Kite has always been. 
"I love the head-to-hnad com­J>Plition," Kite said about the Hyder Cup. "Match play has a sensn of urgency. Tlwre is this f•~•~ling that it has to be donn and it has to be donn right now. 
I like that sense of urgency." And he has always re­sponded. 
Kite, who will be 46 next month, is second only to Greg Norman on the career money­winning list. llis greatest victo­ry was a gutsy, wind-blown win in the U.S. Open at Pebble Beach in 1992. 
I lis seven Hyder Cup appear­ances are second among Americans only to the eight by Billy Casper, Haymond Floyd and Lanny Wadkins. 
Kite, whose overall Hyder Cup record is 15-9-4, is 5-0-2 in sin­gles play, the only man for either side to play in at least four singles matches without a defeat. 
The U.S. team could have used some of that on the final Sunday this year when a 9-7 lnad slipped away to a 14 1/2 to 13 1/2 defeat, giving Europe three victories and a halve since 1985. 
Five matches made it to the 18th hole and the U.S. team came away with only one-half point. A mere half-point more would have kept the Cup in U.S. hands with a 14-14 lie. 
Which brings Kite to two key questions: Did the United States have its best team at Oak Hill? Did Wadkins error in his cap­tain's choices? 
Brad Faxon, Peter Jacobsen, Fred Couples, Jay Haas and, most critically, Curtis Strange, all took their matches to the last hole and only Couples came away with a half-point. 
Couples was one of Wadkins' two captain's choices. Strange, a non-winner since 1989, was the other. Strange dropped his match to Nick Faldo 1-down by bogeying the last three holes. 

The first 10 members of the team are selected by a point system that begins with the 1996 season-opening Mercedes Championship and continues through the 1997 PGA Championship. The final two members are selected by the captain. 
Some have said the two-year selection process allows players to make the team who were hot 18 months earlier. Some have said it puts too much emphasis on top-10 finishes and not enough on winning. And some have said there should be more than two captain's choices, ensuring that the best players at the time of the competition make the team. 
Kite dismissed all of those suggestions. 
"I feel very comfortable with the way the team is chosen right now," he said. "I think any method you choose is not infallible." 
He also had no problems with selecting Strange to this year's team. 
"I think that part of sports is second-guessing," Kite said. "That's part of the fun of sports. Lanny has caught a little bit of grief, but I think he still feels comfortable about his decisions. Had the players per­formed a little bit better there would have been no need for second-guessing." 
Maybe Kite will be able to rely on Kite for some big points at the 1997 Hyder Cup where the European team may have a player-captain of it's own in Seve Ballesteros. 
• TENNIS 


Sampras receives tougher work load 
Astociated Press 
MOSCOW 

Andre Agassi's withdrawal may force wol'ld No. 1 Pole Sampras to play both singles and doubles in the Davis Cup finals against Russia. U.S. captain Tom Gullikson said Wednesday. 
Sampras had hoped to play only doubles, leaving the sin­gles to No. 2 Agassi and and No. 8 Jim Courier as he teamed with Todd Martin in doubles. 
But Agassi pulled out Tuesday because of a nagging strained muscle he first suf­fered in the Davis Cup semifi­nal September against Sweden. He aggravated the injury at a tournament in Essen, Germany, last month and has not played since. 
"There are several different options we have, but I told Pete It could come down to him in singles and doubles," Gullikson said. 
Gullikson said he would submit Sampras and Courier as his singles players in Thursday's draw with Martin and Richey Reneberg in dou­bles. Reneberg was added Tuesday in Agassi's place. 
"We could change the dou­bles and add him (Sampras) if we had to," Gullikson said. 
The Russians, seeking the first Davis Cup championship, are expected to put No. 6 Yevgeny Kafelnikov and clay-court specialist Andrei Ches­nokov in singles. 
"Since I'm going to play sin­gles, I would prefer not to play doubles," Sampras said. "If I have one day of rest between the two singles, physically I'll feel better." 
Under the Davis Cup format, Friday's two singles matches are followed by doubles on Saturday and reverse singles on Sunday. 
Pairings for doubles could be changed an hour before the match, depending on Friday's results, Gullikson said. 
"To be honest. I was hoping to have him lAgassi) but wasn't expecting it," Gullikson suid. "It's clear he hasn't been well since the Davis Cup semifinals. or he would have been playing." 
Gullikson said he talked with Agassi by phone Tuesday after hearing about this with· drawal earlier from his agent. 
Agassi's loss and the fact that the Friday through Sunduy's matches will be played indoors on clay at the Olympic Stadium give the Russians a chance to upset the favored Americans. 
Chesnokov is a clay-court specialist who could give either Courier or Sampras a fight. He saved nine match points against Michael Stich before clinching the fifth and decisive match against Germany in the semifinals. 


page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, November 30, 1995 
-.... 


Celtics rally past Pistons 
Johnson, Rice lead Hornets past Knicks 
Associated Press 
Hornets 115, Knicks 105 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. 

Charlotte reserve center Matt Geiger scored all 10 of his points in the fourth quarter and helped hold New York's Patrick Ewing to one basket in the sec­ond half as the Hornets won their fourth consecutive game, defeating the Knicks 115-105 Wednesday. 
Larry Johnson and Glen Rice each scored 25 points for the Hornets, who have won seven of their last nine games against the Knicks. 
With the score tied at 93, Geiger scored four consecutive points. His slam dunk put the Hornets up for good and he fol­lowed that with two free throws. 
Charlotte went up 108-101 on a bankshot by Johnson and two more free throws by Geiger with 1:28 remaining. 
Ewing, shooting only 5-of-17, missed a short jumper and Rice sealed the Hornets' victory with two free throws with 52.9 sec­onds remaining, putting Char­lotte ahead 110-101. 
Point guard Khalid Reeves came of the bench to score 1 7 points as the Hornets' reserves outscored the Knicks bench 36­14. 
John Starks led 27 points for the Knicks, while Derek Harper added 22. Ewing had 10. 
A couple of shoving matches ensued during the third quar­ter, clearing both benches. Rice and Anthony Mason had to be separated, as did Johnson and Charles Oakley. While the offi­cials stood to the side and watched, Hornets coach Allan Bristow and Knicks coach Don Nelson restrained their respec­tive players. 
Rice scored 11 points in the third quarter and the Hornets led 80-77. But the Knicks took the lead on a 3-pointer by Starks and a driving bucket by Harper to go up 93-90 with 
6:48 left. 
Rookie center George Zidek got off to a good start against Ewing, making three sky hook shots and helping the Hornets to a 27-24 lead after the first quarter. 
Seven consecutive points from Reeves pushed the Hornets ahead 41-34 midway through the second quarter. He finished the quarter with 11 points to put the Hornets up 56­50 at the half. Charlotte didn't commit a turnover until 34 sec­onds remained in the half. 
Celtics 100, Pistons 96 
Rick Fox hit two free throws with 10.4 seconds left, then made a gave-saving play seven seconds later as the Boston Celtics defeated the Detroit Pistons 100-96 Wednesday night. 
Dino Radja led the Celtics with 29 points and 15 rebounds. 
Allan Houston, who finished with 31 points, hit a jumper to pull Detroit within 95-93. Two free throws by Fox increased Boston's lead to four points be­fore Terry Mills hit a 3-pointer to make 97-96. 
With six seconds left, Boston's David Wesley sank the first of two free throws -his only point of the game -but missed the second. Fox tipped the rebound back to center court, where Dee Brown grabbed it, was fouled and hit both free throws to ice the vic­tory. 
Grant Hill scored 29 points despite 8-for-22 shooting. Overall, the Pistons shot just 39 percent. 
Detroit led 83-80 when Radja hit three straight shots to put Boston in front for good, 86-83 with 4:17 to go. 
Trailing by three with two minutes left in the first period, Boston went on a 15-2 spurt, a 3-pointer from Dana Barros at the buzzer giving the Celtics a 26-22lead. 
But Houston scored 15 points in the second quarter to help Detroit chip away at the Celtics' lead. After trailing 43-33 with 
5:15 left in the second period, the Pistons closed to 4 7-45 be­fore Junior Burrough's jumper and Radja's three-point play gave Boston a seven-point half­time lead. 

Todd Day, playing in his first game since the Celtics aquired him from Milwaukee for Sher­man Douglas, scored six points. 
Spurs 105, Clippers 86 
David Robinson scored 33 points and grabbed 11 re­bounds to lead the San Antonio Spurs to a 105-86 victory over the Los Angeles Clippers on Wednesday at the Alamodome. 
Chuck Person, starting for the injured Sean Elliott, added 22 points, including six 3-pointers. Elliott sat out the game with tendinitis in his Achilles' ten­don. 
The Spurs broke open a close game with a 13-3 run in the last three minutes of the third quarter for an 80-67 advan­tage. Robinson had six points in the run. 
Loy Vaught led the Clippers with 15 points, but he had only three in the second half. Terry Dehere, Rodney Rogers and Lamond Murray each added 14 for the Clippers, who fell to 7-8. San Antonio, which beat Los Angeles for the second time in four days, is 8-5. 
Person tied a Spurs team record with five 3-pointers in the first half as San Antonio took a 53-49 lead. He hit three in the last two minutes of the first quarter, then added two more early in the second pe­riod. 
The Spurs led by as many as 12 points in the second quarter, 44-32 with 5:30 left. But San Antonio went almost six min­utes without a point from the field, and the Clippers got back into the game with six points from Vaught and a pair of dunks from Charles Outlaw. 
Robinson was most of the Spurs' offense in the second quarter, hitting six free throws and adding a fast-break dunk. He had 16 points in the period. 

Joe Dumars and the Pistons fell short last night against the Celtics. 
HaPPY 191 
BirthdaY. Heidi· Girl! 
161Je, Amt;·, ~Wt4, ~~, 4Hd1Jto/U 


BASKETBALL REVIEW INTRA-CONFERENCE SIMUL-CAST TONIGHT 10-12L MIAMI 640am  


ENTREPRENEUR CLuB 
"Don't Wait For An Opportunity ... Create One!" 
Have an idea for a new business? How about an idea for improving an old one? 
Ifso, then you would be peifectfor the 


Business Plan Contest. Prizes of $2000,$1000, and $500for the top three business plans. 
Come to ourfirst meeting on 
November 30th at 7:00 in 206 DeBartolo. 
Subject to contest rules available to all contestants. 

Thursday, November 30, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• COLLEGE fOOTBAll • COLLEGE BASKETBALL 


Alabama faces NCAA decision Krzyzewski makes 
By KEN BERGER Infractions lowered the boom would have no problem with Associated Press on the Crimson Tide. Alabama that. 
success~lreturn
was sentenced to three years' "If it eomes time or we feel 
MONTGOMEHY, Ala. 

Alabama's bowl hopes and tlw future of its eoaeh eould be at stakn Thursday when the NCAA appeal 
verdict is un­sealed. 
Crimson Tide offkia1s will mcnive a eopy of the NCAA Ap­peals Corn rn it tee de1:ision in 
Stallings

the morning. and it will be madH public during an al'ter­noon news eonference. said Culpepper Clark, assistant to univnrsity president Hoger Sayers. 
"Wtl have had no indication whatsoever," as the outcome, Clark told The Tuscaloosa News for a story Wndnesday. 
Thn ordeal began with a simi­lar stmse of anxiety on Aug. 2, wlwn the NCAA Committee on probation. including a one-year postseason ban and scholarship reduetions. 
Sincn then, the athletic de­partment has been cleaned out, making coach Gene Stallings uneasy about his future. 
Stallings has said for weeks that he's not sure whether he'll be around for a seventh season. The 60-year-old coach was unusually revealing, though, during an interview broadcast on ESPN the morning of the Alabama-Auburn game. 
Stallings said the outcome of the appeal "eould" affect his decision, but it wouldn't be the only factor. 
"I've done a pretty good job for six years, but things ehange," Stallings said. 
"For example, we're not flashy. Some people would like to see somebody eome in here and spread 'em out and move 'ern up and down the field a lit­tle bit better than I can. And I like that's in our best inter­ests," I've enjoyed my stay at Alabama." 

Stallings has been noncom­mittal since that interview, say­ing he will wait to hear on the appeal and consider his options after the season is over. 
Alabama officials presented their appeal on Nov. 16 in At­lanta. 
The Tide, which has played in more bowl games than any other team, is trying to get its one-year postseason ban and the third year of probation lift­ed. 
Alabama was also docked as many as 30 scholarships over three years and forced to forfeit 11 games in 1993 in which An­tonio Langham played while ineligible. 
The penalties stemmed from Langham's dealings with an agent and improper loans re­ceived by former player Gene Jelks. 
By TOM FOREMAN Jr. Associated Press 
DUHIIAM, N.C. 
Greg Newton's career-high 22 points capped Mike Krzyzewski's regular-season return to his home bench 
Wednesday night as 12th-ranked Duke stopped N o r t h Carolina­Greensboro 71-57. 
It was the 

home opener Krzyzewskl for Duke. but it was also the first time Krzyzewski had taken his seat on the bench in Durham since back problems forced him to sit out 19 games last season. 
Krzyzewski received a stand­ing ovation from the Cameron Indoor Stadium crowd, but the satisfaction of seeing him back on the bench turned into an­guish over early offensive prob­lems. 
In the first half, the Blue Dev­ils (4-0) bore no resemblance to the team that won the Great Alaska Shootout and rocketed from oblivion into this week's college basketball poll. A 3-for­17 beginning helped put Duke in a 17-13 hole after 3-pointers by Larry Gilbert and Derrick Nix, and a layup by Eric Cuthrell. 
Following a timeout, Duke came to life and went on a 14-2 run in which Chris Collins had six points, all from the free throw line. 
The last four free throws gave Duke a 31-20 edge with 
1:13 left in the half, and the Blue Devils had a 33-24 lead at the break. 
The second half mirrored the first, although Duke got three quick baskets and opened a 39­24 lead with 17:58 to go. 

ARHI  169 01  0319  ECON  12BT 04  0836  GEOS  362 01  3084  LAW  671  01  3048  PHIL  247 01  3383  THEO  200  13  2125  
DART  ARHI ARHI ARHI  252T 01 451 01 461 01  0362 3107 3173  ECON ECON ECON  224 01 2241. 01 2241. 02  1666 3712 3713  GOVf 240 02 GOVf 242T 01 GOVf 242T 02  3275 0864 2772  LAW LAW LAW  676 01 678A 01 695 01  2746 4334 0121  PHIL PHIL PHIL  250 01 256 01 261 01  4100 4478 0310  THEO THEO THEO  237 01 243 OJ 243T 01  0723 1839 0721  
ARHI  477 01  3176  ECON  2241. 03  3714  GOVf 242T 03  0863  LAW  695  02  2315  PHIL  261  02  1343  THEO  249 01  1885  
ARHI  561  01  3174  ECON  2241. 04  3715  GOVf 243T 03  1351  LAW  695  03  1411  PHIL  263 01  4101  THEO  255 01  4199  
CLQSEQ SECIIQ~!i AS QF Z:QO P.M.  ARHI ARST ARST  577 01 134S 01 1345 02  3175 0213 3688  ECON ECON ECON  225T 05 315 01 401 01  3221 1323 3717  GOVf 243T 07 GOVf 301 01 GOVf 304 01  3808 3811 0829  LAW LAW LAW  695 695 695  04 OS 06  2464 1876 1087  PHIL PHIL PHIL  263 02 264 01 267 01  4102 4103 4104  THEO THEO THEO  255 02 260 01 262 01  4200 4202 0720  
lll22l2~  ARST  2325  01  1201  ECON  413 01  0828  GOVf 305  01  2607  LAW  695B 01  2659  PHIL  383 01  4106  THEO  264 01  3126  
ACCT ACCl" ACCl" ACCT ACCT Accr Accr ACCT ACCT ACC'T ACCT AC:CT ACCT ACCJ' ACC'T Accr ACCT ACCI" Accr ACCT AUT ACCT  231 01 231 02 231 04 232 02 232 03 232 04 232 OS 232 06 232 07 232 08 232 09 232 10 232 12 232 13 3.l4 01 3.H 02 3:H 03 450 01 476 01 476 02 477 02 477 03  2247 4265 2248 11111 254.3 1218 1444 0636 1459 0016 0209 1385 2554 4266 0075 4267 4268 433S 2391 2371 4274 4275  ARST ARST ARST ARST ARST AS AS BA BA BA BA BA BA BA BA BA BA BA BA BA BA BIOS BIOS  2465 01 248S 01 2895 01 297S 01 3265 01 312 01 3121. 02 230 01 230 02 230 03 230 04 230 OS 230 06 363 01 363 02 392 01 392 03 392 OS 490 01 490 02 490 03 241L 02 241L 03  1515 1322 1508 1069 1208 1747 1236 0141 2742 1215 2795 0195 4277 0488 19S9 2182 0643 4279 2840 2318 1668 005.3 lOIS  ECON ECON ECON ECON EE EE ENGl. ENGl. ENGL ENGL ENGl. ENGl. ENGL ENGL ENGL ENGl. ENGl. ENGL ENGl. ENGl. ENGl. ENGl. ENGL  416 01 421 01 450 01 455 01 232L 01 232L 02 101 01 201 01 202 01 203 01 300K 01 300N 01 301A 01 301B 01 302A 01 311 02 312 02 314 01 31SA 01 315B 01 316F 01 319B 01 328 01  3719 0827 4358 3720 1518 1407 3239 3727 3728 3729 3732 3733 3735 3736 3737 2548 0489 3738 3739 3740 3109 3113 3742  GOVr 3!6F 01 GOVf 318 01 GOVf 341 01 GOVf 373 01 GOVf 495 01 GSC 333 01 GSC 464 01 HESB 340 01 HESB 434 01 HIST liST 06 HIST !J6T 03 HIST 140 01 HIST 209T 04 HIST 209T OS HIST 209T 06 HIST 235 01 HIST 23ST 01 HIST 235T 02 HIST 235T 03 HIST 235T 04 I-liST 235T 05 HIST 240 01 HIST 265 01  3110 3814 4372 3821 3830 4383 4391 3273 3852 3863 1096 3865 3870 3871 3872 3873 3874 387S 3876 3877 3878 3178 3880  LAW 695C 01 MARK 231 04 MARK 231 07 MARK 231 08 MARK 371 01 MARK 374 01 MARK 374 02 MARK 382 01 MATH 103 01 MATH 106 02 MATH 108 01 MATH 120T 07 MATH 214 01 MATH 222 01 MATH 226T 01 MBA S63 01 MBA S71 01 MBA 607 01 MBA 62S 01 MBA 629 02 MBA 640 01 MBA 673 01 MBA 682 01  2070 1102 2536 1028 2539 2138 2475 0560 0394 1314 3611 1851 1678 0556 2643 1301 1443 4458 2984 2074 1032 4297 0036  PHIL PHYS PHYS PSY PSY PSY PSY PSY PSY PSY PSY PSY PSY PSY PSY PSY RLST RLST ROFR ROFR ROFR ROFR ROIT  637 01 222L 05 222L 06 342 01 342 02 342 03 352 01 353 01 396B 01 405 01 431 OJ 470B 01 478A 01 480A 01 488A 01 496 01 240 26 33S 38 103 04 372 01 435 01 444 01 106 01  4125 1766 2852 2335 2080 2489 4399 4132 4400 2955 4135 0018 4401 4447 3405 1900 9S26 9538 1335 2521 4148 4149 0971  THEO 265 01 2807 THEO 270 01 3438 THEO 270 02 4205 THEO 289 01 4207 THEO 289 02 4208 THEO 290 01 1248 THEO 290B 01 4209 THEO 290C 01 4210 THEO 387 01 0122 THEO 396 01 0988 THEO 534 01 2011 THTR 230 58 9758 THTR 272 60 9760 THTR 276 62 9762 THTR 276 64 9764 CLASSES THAT WILL REQPE~ AT Z;QQ P,M, lll30l2~  
AC:Cf AERO AFAM  480 02 465 01 .n4 01  2242 3067 3621  BIOS BIOS BIOS  241 L 04 303L 01 303!. 02  0007 2493 0161  ENGl. ENGL. ENGl.  340 01 340B 01 361 01  3743 3744 3745  HIST HIST HIST  310A 01 327A 01 359 01  3882 3884 3139  MBA MBA MBA  686 01 688 01 692 01  4300 4301 4303  ROIT ROIT ROSP  236 01 399 01 103 01  0808 0358 1733  ACCT ACCT ACCT  231 02 231 04 232 OS  4265 2248 1444  
AFAM  329 01  3075  BIOS  411T 03  1010  ENGl.  390B 01  3750  HIST  363 01  3886  MBA  694 01  4431  ROSP  103 02  2502  ACCT  232  12  2554  
AI· AM AFAM AFAM AFAM AFAM AFAM AFAM AFAM AI. AI. AI. AI. AI. AI. AI. AI. AMST AMS~· AMS . AMST AMST AMST AMST AMST AMST AMST AMST AMST  370 01 384E 01 401 01 413 01 414 01 449 01 454 OJ 468 01 212 05 212 10 212 u 212 16 212 19 212 24 212 28 212 36 282 01 303E 01 304G 01 307G 01 31.3G 01 .UIE 01 324 01 341 01 34711 0 I .HSII 01 360 01 364E 01  4349 3623 3624 3625 3626 3627 3028 3628 1964 1461 2006 1828 1971 1296 1912 2686 2889 3630 3631 3633 3634 3114 3635 3138 3024 3637 2260 3639  CAPP 217 01 CAPP 243 01 CAPP 316 01 CAPP 331 01 CAPP 331 02 CAPP 361 OJ CAPP 389 01 CAPP 452 01 CE 441 01 CE 441 02 CE 4441. 01 CE 470 OJ CHEG 327T 01 CHEM 118 04 CHEM 118L. 02 CHEM 120!. 01 CHEM 120L 02 Cl·IEM 2241. 03 CHEM 2481. 01 CHEM 2481. 02 CHEM 3231. 46 COAT 368 01 coer 426 01 COCT 455 01 COMM 103 02 COMM 103 03 COMM 103 05 COMM 103 07  2718 2256 1462 1509 3697 1332 0520 2858 2687 3507 1739 2448 0091 3000 3004 3002 3003 1697 2148 1822 8346 4352 0874 4357 9702 9703 9705 9707  ENGl. ENGl. ENGl. ENGl. ENGl. ENGl. ENGl. ENGl. ENGl. ENGl. ENGl. ENGl. ENGL ENGL ENGL ENGl. FIN FIN FIN FIN FIN FIN FIN FIN FIN FIN FIN FIN  396A 01 405 01 409 01 414 01 415E OJ 417 01 435B 01 440Z OJ 454 01 467A 01 480 01 490B 01 491 01 492A 01 496Z 01 512A 01 231 01 231 02 231 03 231 04 231 05 231 06 231 07 231 08 231 09 231 11 360 01 360 03  3751 1336 3753 3756 4359 4360 4361 3763 3766 3769 3258 3776 0509 3777 3778 3782 0307 1930 1134 221 I 0006 0563 0056 2278 0267 2037 2220 1374  HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST I-IlST I-IlST HIST !·JIST HIST HIST HIST HIST liPS  403 01 403A 01 405A 01 406A 01 409A OJ 422A 01 424 ()I 424A OJ 426 01 426A 01 427A 01 447A 01 449A 01 451 01 451A 01 454 01 454A 01 457 01 457A 01 467 01 473 01 473A 01 495 16 495 40 546 01 579 01 664 01 320 01  3887 3888 3890 3892 3894 3462 3898 3899 3900 3901 3903 3907 3910 3911 3912 3025 3027 3913 3914 3915 3917 3918 3923 3925 3933 3937 3941 2549  MBA MBA ME ME MGT MGT MGT MGT MGT MGT MGT MGT MGT MGT Ml Ml Ml Ml MI Ml MUS MUS MUS MUS PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL  697 01 697 02 342 01 439 01 231 01 231 02 231 04 231 06 240 01 240 02 240 04 240 OS 371 01 482 01 387 01 405 01 408 01 423 01 525 01 547 01 220 01 222 OJ 225 01 226 01 101 03 101 04 101 OS 101 07  2846 1549 3491 2142 0410 1355 1573 1012 2127 0145 1977 2312 4289 1580 4396 4061 4062 4063 4074 4080 2538 0227 1535 2513 1166 2624 1963 0957  ROSP ROSP ROSP ROSP ROSP ROSP ROSP ROSP ROSP ROSP ROSP ROSI' ROSP ROSP ROSP ROSP ROSP ROSP soc soc soc soc soc soc soc soc soc soc  103 08 230 01 231 01 231 02 231 03 232 01 236 01 238 01 238 02 310 01 310 02 319 02 329 01 329 02 398 02 399 01 463 01 495 01 202 01 202A OJ 214 01 232 01 242 01 300 01 303 01 332 01 338 01 346 01  2717 4160 1178 2708 2]()7 2501 2530 1382 4161 2503 4162 1347 1584 0733 4474 2399 4163 1981 2929 2930 4!67 4168 3064 0046 3042 4169 4170 3034  AFAM 449 01 AMST 484E 01 ARHI 561 01 ARST 1345 02 BA 230 06 BA 363 01 BA 363 02 BA 392 01 COTH 205 01 ECON 224!. 02 ECON 2241. 03 ECON 401 01 ENGl. 414 01 ENGL 454 01 FIN 231 01 FIN 478 01 GOVf 242T 01 GOVf 304 01 HIST 209T 05 HIST 235T 01 HIST 235T 04 HIST 235T OS HIST 240 01 HIST 451 01 LAW 608 02 MARK 371 01 MGT 240 05 PHIL 201 04  3627 3651 3174 3688 4277 0488 1959 2182 3017 3713 3714 3717 3756 3766 0307 1386 0864 0829 3871 3874 3877 3878 3178 3911 1892 2539 2312 0405  
AMST  372 01  :1640  COTH  204 01  3016  FIN  361  02  0449  liPS  386 01  4250  PHIL  201  01  0013  soc  370 01  2689  PHIL  241  01  2923  
AMST AMST  38611 01 412 01  3641 3642  COTH COTH  204 02 205 01  3076 3017  FIN FIN  361 361  03 04  0600 1206  liPS liPS  412 01 493 01  4424 3148  PHIL. PHIL  201 201  02 03  2092 2910  soc soc  374 01 375 01  2023 2660  PHIL PHIL  241 244  02 01  0702 1081  
AMST AMST AMST AMST  414 01 430 01 451H OJ 461 01  3643 3644 36411 4350  COTH 205 02 COTII 326 01 COTH 363 01 COT!-! 364 OJ  3072 3699 0799 2326  FIN FIN FIN FIN  370 OJ 474 01 474 02 475 01  2885 0604 4286 1999  liPS liPS UPS liPS  515E 01 593 01 637A OJ 638 01  3069 4427 4428 3306  PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL  201 201 201 201  04 05 06 07  0405 1731 0337 2579  soc soc soc soc  390 01 401 01 404 OJ 422 01  0437 4173 3119 4174  PHIL PHIL PHIL PSY  246 01 261 02 267 ()] 342 01  2342 1343 4104 2335  
AMST  481E 01  3650  COTH 401  01  3704  FIN  475 02  4287  liPS  671  01  3049  PHIL  201  08  2761  soc  424 01  3088  PSY  353 01  4132  
AMST  484E 01  3651  COT!:·!  413 01  0868  FIN  476 01  2983  liPS  679A OJ  3029  PHIL  225 01  3045  soc  434  01  4171  PSY  480A 01  4447  
AMST AMST ANTH  489E 01 593 01 328 01  3652 3657 2976  COTI·I 474 01 COTH 481 01 CSE 221!. 01  0865 1339 2381  FIN FS FS  478 01 180 08 1!10 11  1386 0126 1281  LAW LAW LAW  591A 01 591F 01 591G 01  0650 4331 4444  PHIL PHIL PHIL  227 01 227 02 239 01  4318 4319 4098  STY STY THEO  419 01 454 01 100 OS  3052 4188 2094  ROSP THEO THEO  231 02 200 02 200 06  2708 1607 2906  
ANTI I 386 OJ ANTI-I 387 01  3661 443'\  CSE CSE  221L 02 221L 03  1429 0303  FS FS  180 12 180 22  0005 1456  LAW LAW  592A 01 608 01  0035 0188  PHIL PHIL  239 02 241 OJ  4099 2923  THEO THEO  200 02 200 03  1607 2254  THEO THEO  200 08 200 10  1838 0875  
ARCH ARCH  444 03 562 01  1195 0529  CSE CSE  233 01 456 01  1975 3523  FS FS  180 25 180 32  1116 0288  LAW LAW  608 02 629C 01  1892 4333  PHIL PHIL  241 241  02 03  0702 4397  THEO THEO  200 04 200 06  4324 2906  THEO THEO  255 01 264 01  4199 3126  
ARCH ARCH ARCH  564 01 566 01 585 01  1061 2274 1058  CSE DESN ECON  472 01 282S 01 12AT 01  3524 0.380 0175  GE GE GEOS  102 02 410 01 232 01  1723 3800 2969  LAW LAW LAW  631F 01 635 01 642A 01  1523 4330 1053  PHIL PHIL PHIL  244 01 245 01 246 01  1081 3033 2342  THEO THEO THEO  200 08 200 10 200 11  1838 0875 4194  THEO  290C 01  4210  

-
-~--------------­

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, November 30, 1995 
• NFL 


Dilger defies odds Free agents frustrate Dolphins 
as starting tight end 
By HANK LOWENKRON the position go beyond how Associated Press many balls I catch." Quarterback Jim Harbaugh is INDIANAPOLIS lavish in praising the rookie. 
Becoming a productive "From a personal standpoint, starter as a rookie in the NFL I think he's brought the most to has been no problem for tight our team of anybody that we've end Ken Dilger. added this year, great blocking, 
Finding good tickets for his great ability to catch the ball, friends and relatives seeking to ability to make the big play, get see him play for the Indianapo­open," he said. "He's a winner lis Colts has been more diffi­and everybody has found that cult. out about Ken this year .... He's 
"There have been steady got good football sense. He ticket requests," said Dilger, a finds the openings. I can give former All-State quarterback you several examples of times from southern Indiana who this year where he has impro­went on to play his college foot­vised and made a big play." ball at Illinois. "Some games Dilger and his teammates I've been getting 40 to 50 tick­turned their attention to Sun­ets. Hopefully, next season day's game. Indianapolis (7-5) those people will get tickets on takes a two-game winning their own. streak to Carolina (5-7). and 
"This year there's been a the Colts are second in the AFC sudden rush for tickets after I East, one game behind Buffalo. was drafted and then becoming "They're an expansion team, a starter.... This last game I but they have about nine guys had to get 62, and I barely got on defense who have been in them all. It's become time con­the league who have eight or suming." nine years experience," Dilger 
That's time away from the said. film room where he studies 

By STEVEN WINE 
Associated Press 
DAVIE, Fla. 

The free agents signed by the Miami Dolphins during an off­season spending spree have yet to pay off. 
A 6-6 record suggests that coach Don Shula failed to buy a better team when he spent about $18 million of owner Wayne Huizenga's money on signing bonuses, one of the highest totals in the NFL. 
Many of Shula's players un­der new contracts this year have had disappointing sea­sons, and Miami staggers into Sunday's game against Atlanta with a three-game losing streak and fading hopes of reaching the Super Bowl. 
"You can't help but be numbed by this," cornerback Frankie Smith said Wednesday. "You've got one of the teams with the most depth in the NFL. We try to figure out why we're not winning with all this talent. What's the problem?" 
Largely because of such ac­quisitions as Eric Green, Trace Armstrong and Steve Emtman, Miami was the preseason fa­vorite to represent the AFC in the Super Bowl. Instead, the Dolphins are in danger of falling below . 500 for the first time since 1991. 
To make the playoffs, the Dol­phins may need to win at least three of their final four games. That won't be easy because the opponents -Atlanta, Kansas City, Buffalo and St. Louis ­have a combined record of 31­17. 
Among Miami's veteran new­comers, only Green moved into the starting lineup. The tight end has caught just two touch­down passes since receiving a $3.5 million signing bonus as a free agent. And although he is a good blocker, the acquisition of Green failed to improve a rush­ing attack that ranks 19th in the NFL. 
Former first-round draft picks Armstrong (at least $1.1 million) and Emtman ($750,000) also received large signing bonuses. Neither is among the top 12 Dolphins in tackles, although Armstrong has contributed 3 1/2 sacks. 
Receiver Gary Clark may rank as the biggest bargain, match­ing Green's total of 29 catches while costing the Dolphins just $203,000 against the salary cap. Another free-agent addi­tion, Randal Hill ($328,000 against the cap), has eight re­ceptions. 
"The concern shouldn't be on how much someone makes,'' Hill said. "The concern should not be on who was brought in with X amount of money. The concern should be how to win another game." 
Miami spent a total of almost $4 million in signing bonuses during the offseason to retain three defensive starters who were free agents -end Jeff Cross, tackle Chuck Klingbeil and linebacker Chris Singleton. Nonetheless, the Dolphins rank 20th in sacks and have allowed 114 points in the past three games. 
Such spending decisions left Miami with little flexibility un­der the salary cap to pursue free-agent cornerback Deion Sanders, who would have bol­stered a secondary that has been riddled in the past three games. 
future opponents and reviews his play that has made him a solid candidate for NFL all­rookie honors. 
Dilger's rapid progress has exceeded the expectations of coach Ted Marchibroda. 
"We had a tremendous amount of faith in his ability when we drafted him. We knew he was going to be a good play­er. The surprise is that he's playing as well as he is so soon," Marchibroda said Wednesday. "It's a tough posi­tion to learn. The tight end is involved in blocking at the point of attack so many times. At the same time he has to be a pass receiver." 
Most observers thought Penn State's Kyle Brady was the best available tight end, and the New York Jets made him the ninth overall pick in the draft. Indianapolis didn't think there was another tight end to use its first-round pick on, so it went for defensive lineman Ellis Johnson with the hope some­one would be available in the second round. 
But that decision nearly back­fired as Pittsburgh took Mark . Bruener in the first round and Seattle chose Christian Fauria with the 39th pick in the sec­ond round. 
The Colts' decision paid off when the 6-foot-5, 256-pound Dilger was available as the 48th pick. 
Dilger. has upstaged the three

-players selected ahead of him, playing a crucial role in the im­proved offense of the Colts. He heads into Sunday's game at Carolina with 32 receptions for 486 yards and two touchdowns -statistics that look huge next to last year's tight end com­bined totals of 18 catches, 203 yards and one TD for the entire season. ''I'm further ahead than I ex­pected,'' Dilger said. "When I came into training camp, I was a rookie and the third tight end. Now I've started nine games, and played in all12." His progress led to the release of veterans Ed West and Charles Arbuckle, making Dilger a starter who is in on most offensive plays. "What I've done is beyond my expectations," he said. "I didn't have any specific goals at the start of the season other to improve on all phases of my game. The responsibilities of 

--~-~ ~ ~--~ ---~---­

Thursday, November 30, 1995 The Observer· SPORTS page 19 
•NBA 
Coleman returns to practice Anderson seeks new 
Associated Press 
HACKENSACK. N.J. 

Dnrrick Coleman, sidelined all season with an irregular heart­beat, practiced for the lirst time this snason Wednesday with the New Jersey Nets. 
"I fnel tirnd, but I fen! great," the star forward said. "First day back, it was a chance to go out and compete and get bangnd and knocked around. Ovnrall, I had a very good prac­
tice. I'm looking forward to tomorrow. I'm happy to be back." 
Two hours before the work­out at Fairleigh Dickinson University's Rothman Center, he worked on his shooting with strength coach Hich Snedaker. 
Team doctors said Oct. 5 Coleman had a minor heartbeat irregularity. Coleman, 28, prac­ticed for the lirst week of train­ing camp, but was sidelined in mid-October when the problem 
presents a: 
$1.00 THURSDAY COLLEGE NIGHT 
Featuring: 
STOMPER BOB & THE 4x4's Plus 

• 
Guest DJ Tony-Tony, Spinning your favorite Hip-Hop music. 

• 
Both Dance Floors Open Until Close. 

• 
21 or over with proper !D's. 


S2.00 Admission With Student ID, before midnight $4.00 Admission Without Student ID Doors open 9:00 PM 
•Every one under 2I must state they are prior to entry. 

* 
persisted, and put on blood thinners. 
goals as NBA veteran


Thursday, Nov. 30 ~Alumni/ Senior Clu~:@ 
Sponsored by the Class of 1996 A FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 and 9:45pm 
~~~ 

World Wide Web<http://www.nd.edu/-cothweb/wwwsnite.html> 
Howell told the New York Post the point guard would consider returning to the Nets. 
"Kenny wants to focus this year only on playing basketball and he doesn't want any dis­tractions during the season," Howell said. 
"He hasn't ruled New Jersey out. So if I were a Net fan, I'd take it as a sign that Kenny is concentrating on having his most productive season." 
Nets general manager Willis Heed said "to lose a great point guard," like Anderson, "would be disastrous." 
"Here's a kid who said he wanted to be in New Jersey and we've made a tremendous oiTer to him," Heed told the Post. 
"They don't want it. They said no. It's always about money." 
Anderson is averaging 12.8 points and 7.5 assists in eight games this season. He averaged 
15.3 points and 7.8 assists in his previous four seasons. 
Reed said "there are only three things we can do" with Anderson, who had 14 points and 11 assists Tuesday night in the Nets' 89-84 victory over Washington, "sign him, trade him or don't sign him and have his slot at the end of the year, which we don't want to do." 

HUGS Members are cordially invited to a Skating/Christmas Party 
Dec. 2, 5 -6:30p.m. at }ACC skating rink. 
This party is being provided by the Ped. nurses andPediatricians at Memorial Hospital in appreciation for your hours of service! Food provided. Bring $1 for skate rentals. Come socialize -excellent opportunity to talk to health care workers about their professions!! 
CII~EfttA AT ~~~E SNITE 
presented by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
631·7361 

"CRAZILY ARRESTING... 
STRIKING. STYLISH, ABSURDIST ENCOUNTERS STAGED WITH UNEXPECTED DASH." 
''CLEVER,OUTRAGEOUS, SUBVERSIVE FUN!" 
~ Sarb<lr~ & ScoH Si~t WNEW. FM' SJEGH ENTERfAINMENT SVNOICAU 


Associated Press 

EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 
When Kenny Anderson first joined the NBA he said he thought only about dollar signs. 
Five seasons later the New Jersey Nets guard said winning a championship is his first pri­ority. But the second overall pick in the 1991 draft still has money on his mind. 
Anderson, who becomes a free agent on July 1, turned down the Nets' offer of about $40 million over the next six seasons. 
"When I first came into the league, I looked at money," Anderson told the Daily News on Tuesday. 
"But now I look where I am and what you're doing in terms of winning. I'm 25 years old and I've been in the league for five years.... So I want a place where I can be productive and win a championship someday. That's what I have to look at." 
What Anderson is looking at is a contract that would pay him close to the $7.5 million that teammate Derrick Coleman earns. 
Anderson is in the final year of his original five-year, $14.5 million deal. 
Anderson's agent Richard 
-


page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, November 30, 1995 
• Cou.EGE BASKHBAU. 






Michigan, Wake Forest roll to lopsided victories 
Associated Press 
MUNCIE, Ind. 
Michigan made shots from 
the inside, the outside, from 
everywhere. 
The only problem seemed to be getting the shots off. The No. 24 Wolverines turned the ball over 34 times but pounded Ball State 80-52 anyway on 66 per­cent shooting from the field Wednesday night. 
"From this game, we need to grow," Michigan coach Steve Fisher said. "Our offense at this point is the least of our wor­ries." 
Fisher doesn't need to worry 
about Louis Bullock's shooting. 
The guard hit all three of his 3­
point attempts and scored 14 
points to lead five Wolverines 
in double figures. 
The Wolverines (4-2) domi­nated the Cardinals inside and outside, making seven 3-point­ers and layup after layup. Michigan hit 7 -of-12 3-pointers in the game, including three during a 19-0 run early in the game that made it 21-4 with 
11:54 to play. 
During the run, Willie Mitchell, Louis Bullock and Travis Conlan hit 3-pointers. 
"We took control at that point in which we scored 19 straight," Fisher said. "It put them out of sync and let us take control." 
Ball State (0-1) closed to 33­24 with 3:36 to play on a 3­pointer by LaSalle Thompson. But Michigan led 36-24 at half­time and maintained a double­digit lead the rest of the game. 
"It was such a big first game, and we got caught up in it," Ball State coach Ray McCallum said. "We were kind of in an­other zone. It's just inexperi­ence." 
Michigan hit 31-of-47 shots for 66 percent in the game. Ball State managed to make just 20­of-70 shots for 29 percent. The Wolverines also outrebounded Ball State 46-24. 
Bullock hit all four of his shots from the field and was 3­of-4 from the free throw line. 

-
Robert Traylor made 7-of-8 shots for 14 points, and Maceo Baston scored 13, Maurice Tay­lor 11 and Jerod Ward 10 for the Wolverines. 
Thompson scored 16 points off the bench for Ball State, hit­ting 4-of-8 3-pointers. Bonzi Wells scored 13. 
Thompson hit three first-half 3-pointers to keep the Cardi­nals close. 
Any hopes of a Cardinals comeback were squelched when the Wolverines went on a 12-2 run to open the second half, including 3-pointers by Bullock and Maurice Taylor. 
And the torrid shooting con­tinued. 
After shooting 65 percent in the first half, Michigan shot even better in the second, 67 percent. 
"We played a little bit back on our heels," McCallum said. "We kind of panicked and tried to force things. We never really played our game." 
In the second half, Michigan pounded the ball inside to Traylor and Taylor. The pair made three layups in the first six minutes of the half, and Traylor scored eight points inside in the second half. 
"I like everything about (Traylor)," Fisher said. "He's got a lot to learn, but I like him a lot." 
Wake Forest 69 Oklahoma State 53 
This time Wake Forest had the big man. It proved to be the difference, just as it was last spring for Oklahoma State. 
Tim Duncan had 22 points and 17 rebounds Wednesday night as the lOth-ranked De­mon Deacons defeated Okla­homa State 69-53 in the Great Eight basketball festival. 
"Duncan, he's just a man among boys out there," Okla­homa State coach Eddie Sutton said. 
"He's a very special player. I told him, 'God's given you a lot of talent.' It's rare to see all that talent in a 19-year-old." 

The victory for Wake Forest was a small payback for the Demon Deacons (2-0). The Cowboys (1-1) ousted Wake Forest 71-66 in the third round of the NCAA tournament last spring. 
But with Bryant "Big Coun­try" Reeves now in the NBA, the Cowboys had no one capa­ble of staying with Duncan and this game was never close. Adrian Peterson's opening bas­ket gave Oklahoma State its only lead at 2-0. 
"Right now we have no inside threat whatsoever," Sutton said. 
"Our inside game right now is almost nonexistent. Until we can get some kind of inside play, it's going to be-tough for us." 
Duncan also had six assists and blocked three shots. 
"We both lost two great play­ers from last year," Wake For­est coach Dave Odum said, pat­ting Duncan on the back. "They lost Bryant Reeves and (Randy) Rutherford and we lost Randolph Childress and Scooter Barnes. But we have this guy back." 
Peterson, a freshman, fin­ished with 14 points for the re­building Cowboys, who shot 
37.5 for the game and hit just 3-of-14 free throws. 
'rony Rutland scored 11 of his 16 points in the first half and the Deacons hit 5-of-6 from 3­point range to open a 37-26 halftime lead. Wake Forest led by as many as 18 points in the second half. 
Ricky Peral also had 16 points for Wake Forest, which shot 55.3 percent and made 8­of-14 3-point attempts. 
It was the third game of the four-game, eight-team festival that began Tuesday at The Palace. No. 2 Kansas and No. 15 Virginia met in the final game. 

Photo courtesy of Michigan Sports Information Steve Fisher's Michigan Wolverines improved to 4-2 on the year with an easy 80-52 victory over Ball State. 

Saturday, December 9, 1995 LaFortune Ballroom 
8:00PM  A  YEAR  WITHOUT A  SANTA  
CLAUS  
9:00PM  FROSTY THE  SNOWMAN  
9:30PM  THE  GRINCH  WHO  STOLE  
CHRISTMAS  
I O:OOPM  RUDOLPH  THE  RED-NOSED  
REINDEER  
I  :00PM  A  CHRISTMAS  STORY  

;;;;;;.;P.;Ps.t~~~~~~~~ 
Free Christmas coolG.es, popcorn and soda will be served. 

c._9V~
E IDllllllllllllllm11"':-"  ' '" llllllllllliiiiUUUI ffi 
ERETREAT DATES: FORMS AVAILABLE: SIGN UP DEADLINE: CONTACT: COST: EE llliiiiiii!IIIIIII!JJITii•""  otre ame ncounter A WEEKEND RETREAT EXPERIENCE GUIDED BY STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF An opportunity, In dialogue with others, to deepen your understanding ol yoursen, your values, your relationship wllh Christ, your experience of Christian communlly end service. FEBRUARY 2-4, 1996 November 27 -December 1 Before 4:00 p.m. -December 1 Campus Ministry Office 103 Hesburgh Library 631-7800 . $25.00 ·•IIIIIIJIJOD!DDDDD rn 
,  


~-----~--~---~----­
Thursday, November 30, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
•MLB 
-

Mariners deal Blowers to Dodgers for prospects 
By JOHN NADEL 
Associatrd Prrss 
LOS ANGELES 

The Los Angeles Dodgers ended their seareh for a third baseman Wednesday, acquiring power-hitting Mike Blowers from the Seattle Mariners for two minor league infielders. 
The Dodgers had said they would not exercise their option on 38-year-old Tim Wallach for the 1996 season, and instead try to find a third baseman through trade or free agency. 

"We feel that Mike Blowers gives us a quality third base­man who possesses outstanding power," Dodgers executive vice president Fred Claire said. "His 
What comes after Thanksgiving . • • is a lot more fun than FINALS ... and much more rewarding than Christmas Shopping at the mall? 

(December 3 through December 24, 1995) 


Wouldn't you like to know more about this important and often overlooked season ofthe church year? 
Come to 






Power Lunches 
December 1: The Spirit ofAdvent 
Power Lunches meet on Fridays from 12:15 -1:00 2nd Floor, South Dining Hall Bring your tray or a Grab'n'Go Onl one more Power Lunch this semester-don't miss out! 
"A WAKE-UP CALL TO THE WORLD." 
~~ 


MASTERPIECE. 
The kind of film thot pulls the 
ground out from under you.lf 
Amy Taubin, VIU,.AG£:" VOICC 
"TWO 
THUMBS URn 
SlSk'FL .& £BEnT 
I / I [·--....~ r·-~ 
('"··~, I __) ~~~ 
TH£ DEBUT FILM FROM LARRY ClARK 
J~ Brought to you by the Student Union Board 
Re~eptio--;~nd discussion to follow, "Sex, Intimacy and Risks for Youth" 

23 home runs and 96 RBis (in 1995) represent a break­through-type season for him. 
"We feel that Mike is the guy to play third base for us. We traded two good young players, we wouldn't have done that if we didn't feel that we had ac­quired the player who would provide the answer at third." 
In exchange for Blowers, the Mariners will get second base­man Miguel Cairo and third baseman Willis Otanez. 
Blowers, 30, played in 134 games for the Mariners last season and hit .257. He had ca­reer-high totals in homers, RBls, doubles (24) and hits (113). 
Blowers tied a major league record for grand slams in a month with three in August, and drove in 33 runs in that month, tying him with Edgar Martinez for the Mariners' record for RBis in a month. 
7P~i~;;.:~;~:~:,• From$1ndianapo1Jis icago
4 & Ch9
• 
RIT Non-Stop Airfare 

• 
7 Nights Hotel Accom. 

• 
AfT Airpor1 to Hotel Transfers 

• 
College Tours famous VIP Party Package· FREE cover charges, FREE parties, FREE food & drinka, EXCLUSIVE special events. OVER $150 in savings! 


LOWEST PRICES • BEST HOTELS • BIGGEST PARTIES 
ORGANIZE A GROUP AND TRAVEL FREEl 

cALL COLLECiE TOURS 
TOOA'I'\ 800-39$·4896 
Prk:e1 per p•r.on, plue tax•• Publtc Ch•rt•r. v.. North••t Alltnn (A-3201 Tour ap.~lor 11 Funqunl V•cabon• O.tt.!ll In Op/P•rt ConlflK:t 
-IIIIIIUII.. TOUR 
Blowers, who is from the Seattle area, admitted he was disappointed about the trade at first. 
"It's great, I'm excited about it now," he said from Palm Springs, Calif., where he has been playing in a golf tourna­ment. "I've had a chance to think about it. I can't think of a better organization to go to. For me and my family, I'm excited about it." 
Blowers said he believed he proved a point last season. 
"I always felt like with an op­portunity to get 500 at-bats (actually 434) like most regu­lars, my numbers would be very good," he said. "I think the numbers speak for them­selves, 23 homers and 96 RBls in a short season. 
"I think I showed everybody in the league I could come through in the big situation. I felt like if I got an opportunity to play every day, I could do those things." Claire said the Dodgers had received good reports on Blowers. 
"I like everything about him, and we haven't even negotiated a contract yet," Claire said. "I know a lot about him concern­ing his approach to the game. I really believe he is a player who is just coming into his own. 
"He's never had the opportu­nity to have 400 at-bats in a major league season. He's go­ing to fit in just fine." 
Morris Civic Auditorium -South Bend 
December 8-9-10, 1995 AVE PERFORMANCES • Friday 8 p.m. 
• Saturday 2 p.m. • Saturday 8 p.m. 
• Sunday 2 p.m. • Sunday 7:30 p.m. EST 
See it here just before it goes to Chicago! Get Your Tickets Now While They Last! 
TICKETS

Call 219-235-9190 
$13.50 TO 

Box Office open Monday through Friday 
$47.50 
10 a.m.-5 p.m. 

Charge to VISA, MasterCard, Amex • Group, Student & Senior Citizen Discounts 
A Broadway Theatre League Presentation 
.. 

~~----.-------~----------------------~-----~----------------------­
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, November 30, 1995 
-




Jock 
continued from page 24 
page. 
The problem is these big games against North Carolina have befuddled the Irish. Notre Dame stands at 0-2-1 in the past three games. After the tie, the Tar Heels prevailed 5-0 in the NCAA championship game last year and 2-0 earlier in this season. 
Don't stop reading yet. There seems to be a trend here. 
At the risk of sounding obvi­ous, you can't win if you can't score. 
The Irish have t.aught this les­son to most of their opponents this season, pitching 16 shutouts. 
Against Carolina, however, the situation has been tradi­tionally reversed. 
In the championship game, the Irish were on their heels, especially in the first half, as the 'Heels steadily pressured the Notre Dame end. 
This season, the two teams met in Houston in what was supposed to be the game of the year. Instead, the game turned into a dud as the Tar Heels 
+-lave sml'\ethi"'9 to 
sa~? 
Ll\se The Obse...-ve...­
classifieds. 
I(Jj'll,iiJil STEAMBOAT VAILIBEAVER CREEK HILTON HEAD ISLAND 
• PER PERSON ClEf'£JIDHG ON C.:STlNAtlON /IREM DATES I l.Ef(;TH Cf STAY. 

1..;.f,lQC:F·SUNC114S·E 
TOLL nil'S' INf1:>111JATlOiol &.l'IUS'IVATK>III$ 
011-IMJITIMWIIIITIAT: 
took advantage of Notre Dame's mid-season slump, dominating once again. 
After this repeated domina­tion, the rivalry remains one­sided. Almost as one-sided as all those MCC games Notre Dame played before stepping into the national spotlight. But not quite. 
Perspective is gained when realizing this program is in its eighth year of existence. Its rapid evolution has inevitably raised expectations. Three short years ago, Notre Dame was concluding its season in the MCC tournament. Now, participation in the NCAA tour­nament is predicted. Some might even say a trip to the fi­nals is imperative. 
Being thrust into this spot­light with numerous expecta­tions is never an easy proposi­tion. It takes time to overcome hurdles before reaching the ultimate goal. For the Pistons, that hurdle was the Lakers. For the Bulls, it was the Pistons. For the Irish, it's North Carolina. 
If the Irish are going to jump this hurdle, they might as well do it in style, handing the Tar Heels their first loss of the year at Fetzer Field. 

Until now, the Irish have cap­tured the games that have counted during their current winning streak. 
"At this time, there is a feel­ing where everyone believes we can win," forward Michelle McCarthy remarked. 
After all, why shouldn't there be. The new lineup with Amy Van Laecke and Julie Vogel starting has propelled Notre Dame to nine wins in a row. Team defense has never been stronger and confidence has never been higher. 
Yup, now's the time. Ques­tions will have to be answered if it is not. Indications are, however, that interrogatives will not be required after the weekend unless they involve how it feels to win Notre Dame's first national title. 
lt is finally Notre Dame's time to outshine the Tar Heels. 
And as James Taylor fades out of the Irish's mind, Soundgarden's "Outshined" enters the headset. 
"This is your captain again. I must apologize. I don't know how it got on this tape, but 'Outshined' is no easy favorite." 
That's  alright,  Petrucelli  
thinks to himself.  Neither is  
North Carolina.  

\rrbe ~nnual QCbrtstmas ~ale 


"'~~ 20°/o-60°/o OFF 
Select Merchandise 

10°/o off 
.. regular price merchandise with Faculty/Staff I.D. 
Defense 
continued from page 24 
Sobrero, and Julie Vogel keep their marks on defense and switch when necessary. She has to see the whole field in order to make adjustments. And with the Carolina attack, she will be busy Friday night. So communication must be maintained to keep things under control. 
"We got mixed up on our marks in the last (Carolina) game, so the communication factor is really important this weekend," Fisher said. "But through the season, we've be­come totally comfortable with each other, and I know how everyone on defense is going to react. So I don't think we'll have any problems with com­munication." 
Although both Notre Dame and North Carolina play tena­cious defense, their styles con­trast rather markedly. Last game, the Irish forwards were faced with a physical challenge 
FLOWERS DELIVERED cSr7 DAYScSi 
worthy of the WWF going against Stacy Wilson and the Carolina backs. Holly Manthei disappeared from the game thanks to the aggressive de­fense of midfielder Tiffany Roberts. So the Irish forwards must prepare themselves for physical play going into Fetzer Field. 
"North Carolina has a really strong defense, no doubt about it," Scharff said. "Whoever Staci Wilson marks is in danger of being taken out of her game." 
The Irish intend to show some attitude on the field Fri­day night, but don't plan to play like Carolina. 
"They have an attitude that nobody is going to beat them (on defense). We need to have that attitude on the field, but I don't think we'll play as dirty. We're going to do it with style," Fisher offered. 
"The last game, they caught us in our slump, and we weren't confident," Sobrero said. "This time, we know what they will try to do, and we're prepared to beat them." 
Flowers, Roses, Balloons, Birthday Cakes, Fruit Baskets, Plush Animals and Gifts 

C/ocktower Square 
ALL MAJOR CREDIT Phone Answered 

51400 US 31 North 
24 Hours a Day

South Bend CARDS ACCEPTED 
277-1291 or 1·800-328-0206 
BE HYPNOTIZED BY JIM WAND. A CHANCE TO IMPROVE YOUR STUDY SKILLS, LAUGH AT YOUR FRIENDS, OR LET YOUR TRUE SELF SHOW!! 
COME SEE JIM WAND AT SAINT MARY•S COLLEGE, CARROLL AUDITORIUM 
~~W~ JNCO~ ~0) 
.
.
. .
. .
. .
. .
.
.
. .
. .
.
.
.
.
. 
Nationally-Ranked No. 15 



NOTRE DAM 
--vs.-­
ldaho or Iowa State 
·······­

Thursday, November 30, 1995 
The Observer • TODAY page 23 
-

FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
h ·• I\ r·"E l'l.t<TS c.c"s~.

L\ou l\\lr<'f: ~·~~ .. G,D'f h "J3A<>"> 
HAPPY IIIRTHDAY! IN THE TvE ~"' il'l<E 1\ fi~ 11-R~ 
(£ fl-1'11'1'\IC...'S7 t~f\,N'1"1f'4.~ "?' 

NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: (,,..ss T• 
f'l\v<;,oc."?. l,N\\o i'IEE'D~ \T? 

Experts help you get a better return on your money. Read the financial
(:\fl.ll"t>Vfl'lt 
column. Children make it easy for you to reach an important decision. Early in 1996, travel brings greater business success. Be certain of your feelings before making a romantic commitment. Educational activities can be the key to higher self-esteem and a more positive outlook. Sum­mer of '96 will feature fabulous financial gains and increased popu­larity. Remember your friends. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: singer Tina Turner, cartoonist Charles Schulz, pitching great Lefty Gomez, tennis player
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
Wendy Turnbull. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): A good day to stick close to your home base. Delays are likely if you use public transportation. Certain rei a· tives may be difficult to please. Keep your cool. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your personal relationships imprr.ve when you show greater tolerance. Use persuasion. not coercion. to win people over to your views. A heavy­handed approach will only make a difficult situation worse. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Take charge of your life instead of sitting passively on the sidelines. The holiday season weaves a magic spell. Lend a helping hand to the needy. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Playing with fire in a key relation­SCOTT ADAMS 
ship would be a big mistake. You could get burned! Give some
r-==========~~0~-------------­
thought to playing a more active role 
in t. uch with a prospective partner. Working with a youth group may hold special appeal. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Thi11k about taking a trip. Although you enjoy the idea of spur-of-the­moment travel, you should choose your companions with care. A senti­mental journey back home brings your past into clearer focus. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): A dreilm about a romantic partner could hold an important message from your subconscious. Those with time on their hands should read. Become a bookworm and steep yourself in the wisdom of the ages. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): An excellent day for addressing Christmas or llanukkah cards, wrap­ping gifts and baking holiday treats. A decorating project adds real pizai.Z to your home. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): A sermon gives you new hope regarding a personal problem. A heart-to-heart talk with a loved one helps begin the healing process. Be careful what you commit yourself to in writing. Curb spending. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may have to make a hard­and-fast decision regarding a family matter. Think about the future as well as the present. A secret admirer causes excited speculation. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You board the roller coaster of romance with high hopes and a cer­tain amount of trepidation. Domestic tranquillity depends on your resolving family disputes before they escalate. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Conserve your strength for the really important things. A period of quiet meditation could lead you to set new goals. Examine your value system. Loved ones need to know that you care. 


DILBERT 
WE'VE BEEN DATING rOR A 'r'EAR NOW, LIZ. THERE'S SOf'\E.THING I'D LII<.E TO DO TONIGHT ... 
THERE ARE SOME. ~ NEEDS THt\T I CAN'T ~ FULFILL AT WORK. 
57 Map dot, maybe 61 Actor havin' missed his seat? 64 Payment for 
dozens? 65 Dweeb 66 Purviance of 
Chaplin films 67 Hoard sa Cordoba couple &90oze 
DOWN 
1 Our Gang's Fat Joe 2"Peek---" 
3 Some are spare 4 Blunt turndown 5 Barley beard 
6 KO callers 7 Extend a Balloon sound 9 Encroached 
10 TV journalist Marvin Puzzle by Cathy Mlllhauser 11 "Psst" 
30 One of a pair atalternative Henley12 Smart talk 31 Provoke15 Refrain 32 Actorsyllables Christopher
18 Cross 36 P.M. before
inscription Macmillan
19 With: Fr. 

in community or religious affairs. 
Your talents are desperately needed. LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You 
I-lOW LONG 1-\A.~ 
YOUR HHERNET 

may be yearning for a one-to-one 
relationship. Joining a new organi­
zation or social club could put you 
CONNEC.TlON 
AT WOF\K BEEN 
BROI<.E.N? 

•MENU
) 

Notre Dame 
\ 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Singer Vikk1 5 Dadaist Hans a Rabbitlike 
animals 13 Stage award 14 Didst exist 16 Mulual of 11 Spool 
decoratin' Granny Smiths? 20 Deck officer 21 Bulgar, e.g. 22 Cloned computers 23 Weekday abbr. 2!1 Southwest New York c1ty 27 B1rd sittin' atop a s1og1e? 33 Nantucket I.'s 1n il 
~ ~ ~ 
"' 
..
"' 
0.. 
... 
... 
0 
u 
"' 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
38 Humans and
BBR8 24 Pulitzer monkeys
dramatist of 1953 39 City on the Arno 26 Yorkshire river 40 Play---(kids' 27 Former life 
art medium) 
28 Put into words 41 Churn 29 Biota part 43 Wolfed (down) 

North South Jumbo Fish Sandwich Prime Rib London Broil Seminole Snapper Chicken Fajita Pizza Lemon Chicken Breast 
Saint Mary's For menu information call 284-4500 
American Heart ft 
Association,w~ 
F1ghting Hearl D1sease and Stroke 

Start to Finish Heart Disease 
46 Nutritional necessity 47 Canon rival 
59 Strauss's "-­

48 Nonclerical Nacht in 
49 Set on the table 
Venedig" !12 Puts on 
60 Golfing snag

53 Surrender 62 Ending with oaf
54 Plebe's place: Abbr. 63 PBS no-no 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1~900-420­
©1995, American rieart As~;eiation
5656 (75¢ each minute). 
-
• 


34 Joke 35 Richards of 
tennis 37 Cork, e.g. 40 Scraped the 
bottom of 42 "Dynasty" 
actress Garber 43 ·-Canals 44 Keats's "The 
--ofSt. Agnes" 
4!1 Result of currants marryin'? 
50 "West Side Story" song 
51 "Love Story" composer Francis 
52 Greenish-blue 55 Pods for stews 

-




SPORTS 
page 24 Thursday, November 30, 1995 
• WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Trench Warfare 
Last line of Senior sweeper Ashley Scharff (background) has towered above Notre Dame opponents during the numerous
defense propels shutouts which she has anchored. 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 

Irish to Final Four 
By DAVE TREACY Sports Wri1er 
Sixteen shutouts. In sixteen games this season, Notre Dame prevented opponents from putting points on the board. 
Through 23 matches, Notre Dame has outscored opponents 88-15. Keepers Jen Renola and Emily 

The Observer/Mike Ruma 
Loman have been virtually untested Defenders Kate Sobrero (above) and

this year as the tandem average 

Kate Fisher (below) have led the Irishslightly under three saves per con­defense to 16 shutouts this season. 
test. Life has been good for the net­minders. What is the source of their well-being? 



Defense. Defense has become such an integral part of Notre Dame's sea­

With the front line and midfield 
son. Without it, they'd be watching 

hounding the ball, the attack has
SportsChannel this weekend instead kept most offenses on their own halfof being the main attraction on prime of the field and away from the Notre

time television. Shutting down 
Dame net. 
opposing offenses has turned into a "We've really improved over the mantra. 

past few weeks on team defense,"Defense must be played all over the 
defender Kate Fisher evaluated.
field to keep opponents on guard, "We're all working on our individualfrom the forwards to the goalie. But defense, and that has improved ourthe back line must be as impene­team all over the field. With peopletrable as the Great Wall of China to in front of us attacking the ball, other ensure success, let alone a national teams don't have as many scoringchampionship. Without a doubt, opportunities. And if we (the back 

-
Notre Dame has built a fortress in line) keep our marks, it's hard tothis weekend. 

front of the net. And the snipers on beat us."

But to beat the Irish, the 'Heels will top of the wall have very unforgiving "At the beginning of the season, 
eyes. again have to face the wall. Only this two coaches said that our defenseHowever, North Carolina con­time, the Irish backfield plans on wasn't really good," sweeper Ashley
intercepting the Carolina attack. 
sistently snuck over, under, and 

Scharff remembered. "That reallyaround the wall in the first contest "We're not going to let people past spurred us on and kept our minds
us," said defender Kate Sobrero.
this season. They are also the only focused on improving."

team that has sent Notre Dame home "We'll try to stop the attack before it In many respects, Scharff is thehappens."
without a goal this season, winning cornerstone of the Irish defense. It'sIrish team defense has improved2-0 in Houston. The Tarheels know her job to make sure that Fisher,

about defense, and they plan to over the course of the season, espe­repeat their performance at home cially since the weekend in Houston. see DEFENSE I page 22 
• JOCK STRIP 


There's no time like the present 
Just picture it now. On the women's soccer flight to Chapel Hill, the pilot's voice echoes over the loudspeaker. 
"For your listening pleasure today, please remove the headphones 
r----------, from the plastic and tune to channel eight. The rap channel has not yet been ap­proved by the FAA, so we'll have to settle for easy fa­vorites." 
After the Irish have insert­ed their headphones into the jack right next to the micro-Joe Villinski scopic ashtray, the magic Assisranr Sports begins. Just as "Sweet Edi1or Caroline" by Neil Diamond fades into the distance, James Taylor's "Carolina In My Mind" fills the ears of each player. 
Even coach Petrucelli can't help but reveal a smile. He, along with the rest of the team, knows there needs to be no reinforcement of this fact. 
Ever since Notre Dame broke the Tar Heels 92-game winning streak last season with a scoreless tie, North Carolina has always held a special place in the back of Irish minds. So has the fact that they have been dominated by Carolina in the following two meetings. 
Now, the perfect place James Taylor describes provides the perfect time for the Irish to defeat the 13-time NCAA champions. 
"After we played them in the finals last year, I said it was going to be hard to beat this team in the finals," goalie Jen Renola said. "If some­body was going to accomplish this, it would be better to do it before the finals. Now, we have that chance and I think we're going to take ad­vantage of it." 
If they do, the Irish will fulfill their season­long goal of capturing the national champi­onship, a game early. 
For all intensive purposes, this semifinal will determine who raises the trophy on Sunday. Put simply, this is a big game. Big enough for me to allow my ugly mug to grace the back 
see JOCK/ page 22 


Interhall stars shine on Sunday 
TODD FITZPATRICK 
Second. neither team will punt Sports Wrirer the football to change posses­sion. Third, each half will last 
The regular season may be ten minutes longer than it had over for the teams of women's in the regular season. interhall football, but sixty tal­Marty Ogren, who introduced ented players will compete in the idea for an all-star game one final game this weekend. last year, will coordinate the 
The second annual all-star men's contest but will also help game for the best players of organize the women's game. women's interhall will take He encourages students, facul­place this Sunday at 1:30 in the ty, and friends to support thebacker Shelly Dillenb'-;'rger,
Loftus Sports Center. players and watch both exciting 
Badin defensive lineman Fran
Thirty all-star selections from games.
Maloney, and others. 
the Blue Division will face thirty "We hope a lot of people will
Ed Tadajweski, who coached
all-stars from the Gold Division. come out to watch the games.
... 
Each dorm will send an equal Pasquerilla East to the interhall We will have cash prizes andfinals; will be on the sideline
amount of representatives to food for the spectators," said
for the Gold Division. Kevin
the game. Ogren.
Kuwik, coach for the Blue
Many players return from the The all-stars have practiced
Division, pointed out that spec­
last year's inaugural all-star Monday night and Wednesday
tators will notice some differ­
game to compete this year. night in preparation for Sun­
ences in this all-star game. 
The Blue Division squad wel­day's contest. This all-star
"There will be a few rule
comes back quarterbacks M.T. game is especially meaningful 
changes in this game that are
Kraft from Pangborn and Julie for the senior competitors.
different from the regular sea­
Byrd from Lyons, running Most of them will never play
son," commented Kuwik. 
The Observer/Brent Tadsen backs Jenny Layden from Lyons organized football again, so
First, neither team will kick
Lyons quarterback Julie Byrd will attempt to lead the Blue Division to and Trish Sorensen from Sunday's game will be the last
off either to start a half or
victory in interhall football's second annual all-star game this Sunday Pangborn, receiver Kelly Brady opportunity to showcase their 
return the ball after a score.
at the Loftus Center. from Pangborn, Badin line-talents. 

Men's Basketball 
• Charlotte upsets New York 
at Rutgers, December 2, Noon 

Women's Soccer a) 
see page 16 

NCM National Semifinals 
Volleyball 

vs. North Carolina at Chapel Hill ~





SPORTS 
vs. winner of Iowa State/Idaho 
Friday, 5 p.m. •• •Sampras, Kite face new challenges 
Sunday, JACC
at a 
SMC Sports riJ see page 15 
Hockey 
Basketball ac Goshen 
Swimming ac Albion •Cleveland seeks help from Congress 
at Ferris State, December 1, 7 p.m. 
~ 
see page 14
GLANCE 


