
Wednesday, March 1, 1995 • Vol. XXVI No. 97 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
ND professor advisor to Senate CODlDlittee 
By ETHAN HAYWARD 
Assistant News Editor 
Despite the miles that sepa­rate South Bend and Washing­ton. D.C., Notre Dame Associate Professor of Law Jimmy Gurule 
will  be  dis- 
pen sing  
advice to the  
Senate  
.Judi1:iary  
Committne.  
Gurule has  
been  asked  
by  Senator  
GuruleOrrin llatch,  
the  com­ 
mittee chair,  to  serve  as  a  
member of an  advisory panel  

which will focus mainly on the Hepublican crime bill, recently passed by the llouse of Hepre­sentatives. If enacted, the bill would give $10 billion to local governments for appropriation rnlatml to crime prevention or law enforcement. 
Gurule supports the bill be­~~ause, he says, it provides more ll1~xibility for the states then the law passed by the Demoerati­,·ally-eontrolled Congress, which stipulates the hiring of I 00,000 more police officers nationwide. With the Hepubli­ran vnrsion, the statt~s can tai­lor tlw funds according to the specific rwnds of their jurisdic­1ions, Gurule says. 
Curule also says that by de­termining tlwir own needs, o.;tatns will he able to formulate a morn comprehensive approach to violent crime, addressing the areas of ~~nforeiHnent, prevention, and Pducation. 
lie pointed out that 90 per­cent of violent crimes are pros­ecuted on the state and local level, and that these crimes are "by and large a state problem." 

"We need to refrain from fed­eralizing a state problem," says Gurule, who added that the federal government involving itself in state affairs is "the height of arrogance." 
Gurule is also concerned with the possible revision of legisla­tion regarding habeas corpus, which currently allows convic­tions to be appealed without limits on time or number of ap­peals. 
"This process needs to be re­stricted," he says. If Gurule had his way, there would be a time limit on filing an appeal, and all appeals would have to be filed simultaneously. 
As for the issue of gun con­trol, Gurule says he is torn. He states that the Brady Bill may have been "oversold" by the Democratic Congress that passed it. He says the bill "may be worth it, but it is not panacea." 
Gurule also has plans to reevaluate federal laws con­cerning civil forfeiture. which allows the government to seize property used in the commis­sion of a narcotics felony. He states that the current statute is "deficient on two extremes." 
These extremes regard the "innocent owner" provision, which can render property immune to seizure if the owner is unaware or unconsenting of the crimes committed on or with his or her property. 
The first deficiency is that 
see GURULE/ page 4 

By PEGGY LENCZEWSKI 
News Writer 
H
e's a familiar sight to those who trav­el on Route 33. He sits among American flags and waves at passing cars for a few hours every day, regardless of the weather. and has done so for the last six years. 
Brother Edward Courtney, a brother of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, lives in Columba Hall on the Notre Dame campus. He holds his vigil on Houte 33 in silent protest of the Supreme Court decision that protects flag burning. 
"The flag represents our best selves, and it is the most important symbol that represents our people," Courtney said. 
Courtney's deep respect for the flag stems from his military service in Europe during World War II, which included participation in the invasion of Normandy. 
"I've seen people die for our flag. It means 
Holy Cross Brother respects flag like none other 
something very special to every veteran in this country. In addition, it represents all that Americans have done, and it is the one sym­bol that does not touch merely one person or any one specific group. It floats over all of us and brings people together," Courtney said. 
In 1989, the Supreme Court ruled that burning an American flag is a form of expres­sive conduct and is therefore protected by the First Amendment. Laws forbidding the burn­ing of the flag and any other potential acts of desecration against it were accordingly nulli­fied. 
The decision stunned Courtney, who feels that it was simply "a bad decision." 
He said that"the Supreme Court is not the highest authority in the land. The people are the highest authority. Eighty percent of the poeple in this country feel that burning the flag is wrong, and when the people lose their voice (in government). something is wrong." 
see FLAG I page 4 

Minority Engineering Program grant to spur curiosity 

By CHRIS CORRENTE 
News Writer 
As a young kid, did you ever imagine building a dinosaur out of Legos, then watching it come to life, or building your very own rocket and launching it on an enemy? 
Those dreams will now be­come reality for 35 minority fifth and sixth graders in the South Bend Community School Corporation (SBCSC). thanks to Kent Lebherz, president of Ameritech Indiana, who pre­sented Notre Dame with a $50,000 check last week to fund a summer engineering program to excite interest in the engineering field. 
Notre Dame was awarded the grant after the Minority Engi­neering Program submitted a proposal to Ameritech Indiana asking for support to fund a summer pre-college program. 
Joy Vann-Hamilton, director of the Minority Engineering Program, said she hopes the summer program will increase the young students' options in choosing a future profession. She wants the students "to have familiarity with the (engi­neering) field so they can make a more informed choice." 
Vann-Hamilton claimed stud­ies show that if students are to become interested in pursuing an engineering-related profes­sion, they must be introduced to the field prior to high school. 

"Fifht and sixth graders have a genuine curiosity," she said. "It's not too late to peak their interest." 
To be eligible for the pro­gram, students must have scored sixty-five or above on the Indiana Statewide Testing for Educational Process (ISTEP) or have a 'B' average. Also re­quired is a nomination and let­ter of reccommendation by the school princpal or a math or science teacher. 
The four-week program will familiarize students with seven engineering fields consisting of interdicsiplinary lectures and demonstrations. The students will also work on two scheduled projects: rocket building and "Lego-Logo." 
The rocket building project will require the students to use a computer to guide a rocket along its proper path. They will then use a computer to construct and launch their own rockets. 
The second project will have the students build different stuctures with Lego blocks and animate them through Logo, a computer programming lan­guage designed by the Mas­sachussetts Institute of Tech­nology. 
Five undergradute engineer­ing students will work at the program as group leaders and research assistants. Jay Brockman, department of com­puter science and engineering, and Mark Herro, department of electrical engineering, will also work with the young students. 
The program will be com­plemented by "Saturday Acadamies," follow-up pro­grams to help build on what the students learned over the sum­mer. 
For Vann-Hamilton, Ameritech Indiana's grant came after three years of at­tempts to implement a local program to introduce young minority students to engineer­ing. She said that the program is the also the culmination of the efforts of Virginia Calvin, superintendent of the SBCSC, and Hosalind Ellison, director of student service of the SBCSC, who have worked with her to­wards reaching her goal. 
''I'm an avid supporter of the program," she stated. ''I'm excited and grateful to Ameritech for making a dream come true." 
page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Wednesday, March 1, 1995 
•INSIDE CotuMN 

• WoRLD AT A GuNcE 
Scientists said to have found the 'Top Quark'
Flashback 



to Chicago 
Recently, thanks to the generosity of my Cicsely Elliott rectress, I was unex­Assistant Viewpoint pectedly blessed with a Editor Saturday trip to Chicago and tickets to see Victor Bikel in the classic Fiddler on the Roof. 
This was my first time away from campus during the semester, and I was heading out with somebody else's money in my pocket, a new friend in tow, and no responsibilities to cloud my mind from the purpose at hand: pure, unadulterated, unbridled fun. 
Excited to finally be seeing more of the Windy City than just O'Hare Airport, I did a tad too much precelebrating the night before and woke just in time to grab a banana muf­fin before sprinting to catch United Limo 784. I dressed appropriately, attempting to look as cosmopolitan and chic as possible -which is to say hardly at all. 
My friend and llQaded onto the bus, and I noticed that about twenty fellow Domers were making the trip. After about an hour into the journey, most of us were practically unconscious from the mysterious lemon pledge fumes. However, as we entered the city, all eyes flew open, and we were actually following our pseudo-guide's directionally­impaired tour. 
The Keenan tour bus dropped us off at 
11 :00, and, by 11:05, my friend and I had 
already begun our rampage the perfume 
counters and Yves St. Laurent collection of 
Marshall Fields. For the next three hours, we 
ate, drank and smoked our way down State 
Street. 
It was one of those days where everything 
anyone does or says is the most hilarious 
thing in the world, when you don't care what 
your hair looks like or how you'll find your 
way back home. It was one of those days that 
makes you feel like you could go climb a 
mountain in your best silk hose and never 
get a run. 
Eventually, we made our way to the the­
ater for the show, braved the evil women's 
bathroom lines, and finally sat down to enjoy 
a little culture. The performance was above 
average. Bikel's voice was amazing, and his 
comic timing was as good as ever. However, 
during the dance scenes I had to wonder if 
he isn't too old to be playing such an en­
ergetic and lively character. However, I 
shouldn't be so harsh as my energy waned as 
well during the second act. 
Now that the weekend is over, classes seem 
to be in warp drive for spring break and I'm 
living in debt to my rectress. Everything 
about my little "expedition" through Chicago, 
including the play itself. seems more excit­
ing. You know what I mean, I carry the mem­
ory around all week, telling the story to 
everyone I know, though probably not as 
extensively as I've just done. I build it up 
until the next weekend comes along to break 
the monotony of campus life. 
For me, this extraordinary cycle of living 
on the weekend and then reliving those pre­
cious few days through the rest of the week 
is as predictable and dependable here on 
campus as the seasons. In fact, looking out 
the window just now, I might even venture to 
say more so. 
I had an amazing weekend in Chicago 
which will occupy a space in my memory in 
the same way Spam occupies grocery store 
shelves: forever. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Production David Ring Tara Grieshop Edward Imbus Jackie Moser Sports Tim Sherman Accent Kim Kilbride Viewpoint Shannon Johnston Meghan Smith Lab Tech Graphics Mark Alexion Tom Roland 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday excc:pr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
CHICAGO 

Less than a year after announcing they'd found evi­dence of the missing piece of matter essential to under­standing the universe, scientists this week are expected to proclaim the discovery of the elusive ·"top quark." 
The top quark is the name given to the subatomic parti­cle scientists believe is a basic building block of nature from the time of the "big bang." Scientists' understand­ing of time and matter would fall apart if the top quark didn't exist. 
If confirmed, the discovery "would close the loophole, the remaining missing link in the standard model," physicist William Carithers Jr. said Tuesday from the Energy Department's Fermi National Laboratory in sub­urban Batavia. 
Carithers is one of 900 collaborators searching for the top quark in experiments at Fermilab. 
Fermilab spokeswoman Judy Jackson said that the col­laborators have scheduled a meeting Thursday to discuss results of their search. And news reports Tuesday said the physicists will announce they've found the top quark. 
Last April, Fermilab scientists announced that a 17­year search using the world's most powerful particle accelerators had yielded the first direct evidence for the existence of the top quark. Scientists said then they expected the actual discovery of the top quark to come within 12 to 18 months. 
It is expected that researchers will announce that sub­seqeunt experiments colliding protons and anti-protons in the Fermilab's nuclear accelerator were able to pro­duce the energy from the collision into the elusive quark. 
The top quark is one of six kinds of quarks believed to make up protons and neutrons inside atoms. Over the years, five quarks have been discovered. 
In last year's announcement, scientists said they found evidence of the sixth quark -the top quark -by using Fermilab's four-mile underground circular supercollider to create particle collisions that yielded miniature energy bursts similar to the big bang. 
Stanford rule against hate speech void 
SAN JOSE 
A judge struck down Stanford University's ban on hate speech Tuesday because it restricts words based. upon sex and race instead of all "fighting words." Judge Peter Stone also said the code was unconstitutionally broad. Stanford argued that the private university had the right to regulate speech it considered unacceptable and that the code didn't target ideas, but "fighting words." Stone disagreed, saying the code "targets the content of certain speech" since it does not forbid all fighting words. More than 150 U.S. colleges have tried to regulate such speech, according to a survey by the Freedom Forum First Amendment Center. Stanford's code forbade use of "gut­ter epithets and symbols of bigotry" such as "nigger," "kike" and "faggot," and barred use of hate-associated symbols like the swastika in personal attacks. 
Gingrich's royalties divulged 
WASHINGTON 
House Speaker Newt Gingrich will earn a 15 percent royalty for each hardback and 10 percent for each paperback and audio cassette sold under his book deal, media executive Rupert Murdoch says. Gingrich's roy­alty for hardcovers will equal the per­centage earned by Vice The speaker, who decided to forgo a controversial 

$4.5 million advance and accept only royalties for books sold, has said he would not take more than Gore has 
received for his book. 



llndianapoli3 37° I 
ILL. 
• 

The missing link 
Researchers are expecled to announce Thursday that lhey have found lhe top quark, an elusive subatomic particle that existed for a billionth of a second at the beginning of lime. Scienlists sought lhe top quark for 17 years, believing it was the missing link in the Standard Model, a framework of 12 particles thought to form all matter. Aproton and antiproton collide in the
STRUCTURE OF MAnER Fermilab acceleralor. Atop quark is 
Particles such as protons and neutrons are composed of triplets of quarks. crealed from the energy produced. 

PARTICLES IN THE STANDARD MODEL Mass shown is measured in billions of electron volts 

Quarks Particles bound 
together by the ! strong mteraclion. 


UP CHARM 
0.005 1.4 


Nucleus,' 
DOWN STRANGE BOTIOM 0.01 0.2 5.0 

LeptonS PartiCleS not subject to the ~ 


~-~~ 
Proton 
ELECTRON MUON TAU . 

NEUTRINO NEUTRINO NEUTRINO ' 

F!J®?J}
ELECTRON MUON TAU 0.0005 0.1057 1.784
Quark 

Court justifies Baby Richard decision 
CHICAGO 

"Lies, deceit and subterfuge" have kept a man from meeting his son, the state Supreme Court said Tuesday in explaining why it invalidated the adoption of Baby Richard. The court said the boy's adoptive parents, Jane and John Doe, their lawyer and the child's biological mother conspired to keep Richard from his biological father, Otakar Kirchner, by not informing him of the adoption. The justices wrote. "Richard was then less than three months of age. The Does selfishly clung to the cus­tody of Richard. They have prolonged these painful pro­ceedings to the child's fourth birthday and have denied Otto any access to his own son." Justices Mary Ann McMorrow and Ben Miller dissented, saying further hear­ings were necessary to determine the truth and who should ultimately get custody. 
Pope supporting poverty summit 
VATICAN CITY 

The Pope is sending a high-profile delegation to a U.N. summit in Copenhagen, promising to use its influ­ence to spur interest in a plan to fight poverty and unemployment. Papal spokesman Joaquin Navarro, also a member of the delegation, said Tuesday that the Vatican fully supports conference resolutions and would try to 


overcome skepticism among developed countries. Vice President AI Gore and President Nelson Mandela of South Africa are among leaders expected to attend. 


• NATIONAL WEATHER 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, March 1. 

Pressure ~ 
H L Ea E:SI!TIJ 0 ~§ i) ~U 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN Y.STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Vi.t.AssocllJteciPresa 
Adanta  52  41  Dallas  48  38  New O~eans 62  45  
Baltimore  43  30  Denver  38  12  New York  40  30  
Boston  37  26  Los Angeles 65  57  Philadelphia 42  31  
Chicago  24  12  Miami  83  72  Phoemx  72  56  
Columbus  31  19  Minneapolis  15  -7  St. Louis  26  17  

----~----­
...--------.-----------------------------~--------------------------------­
Wednesday, March 1, 1995 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
By SARA WOODEN 
News Writor 
Lou Nanni, director of the South Bend Center for the Homeless, spoke last night on "Community Service and Your Life". Nanni, speaking as part of the Senior Lecture Series, told tho story of a young woman around age 19 or 20, whose name is Yolanda. Nanni docided to let this mother of three, through her own words as written to him, speak to the audience about the importance of soul. 
"At this point and time I feel worthless, and unlit (as a) par­ent ... I don't trust the world ... I wish to God I was dead," explained Yolanda. Sobbing so hard that she was unable to speak through her tears, the young woman communicated with Nanni by writing. 
People are comprised of body, spirit, and soul, according to Nanni. As a culture, people, who are constantly aware of their physical image. can easily understand body. People understand spirit to be hope; "it looks to the future, it's filled with joy. it's exciting." But soul "is the confusing stuff. both in ourselves and in society that from which we want to turn our heads ... It is rooted in the IJrokenness and messiness of life." 
According to Nanni, few peo­plfl have a strong combination of both spirit and soul. And it 
• HAlL PRESIDENTS COUNCIL
Nanni calls for soul searching 

New Student Relations Council proposed 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST Assistant News Editor 
1-IPC will vote next Tuesday on whether or not to support the establishment of a new council devoted to tackling stu­dent relations issues such as parietals, co-ed dorms, and relations between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
The council, proposed by HPC Co-chair Rich Palermo and to be known as the Student Relations Council (SRC), would be independent of other stu­dent councils, yet would remain within the student gov­ernment framework. 
According to Palermo and Katie Beirne, current president of the Freshman Class Council , formation of the council would allow its members to devote their energies specifically to 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 

those issues, something that
Lou Nanni, director of the South Bend Center for the Homeless, 
did not happen in 1994-95. 
speaks yesterday evening as part of the Senior Lecture Series. 
is much of the homeless popu­lation, like Yolanda, that have much soul but no dreams, no spirit. Yet ironically, many of the successful people in the world have no understanding of soul. 
"Yolanda needs to find spirit; our challenge is to find soul," Nanni told the audience. 
:~~:=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
•
•
• 
CHEERLEADER &
• 
•
• LEPRECHAUN Tryout Information Meeting • 
All serious candidates must attend this meeting! : 
---------------------------------------------·•
6:00P.M. • MARCH 7, 1995 • JACC Football Auditorium ••••For more information, call 631-81 03 
hers, including Peg Ward, co­president of Lewis Hall, ex­pressed concern that the for­mation of the SRC would un­necessarily enlarge student government and create further possibilities of missed commu­nication between student gov­ernment administrators. 
"I see a tendency for overlap or for things to fall through the cracks if people are not sure who is supposed to do what," Ward said. 
Several council members also suggested that current rela­tions-committee members within student government should be made to work hard­er, rather than forming a new and separate council. 
Palermo, however, cited two reasons for forming the SRC: 
First, the student body would be assured that topics of con­cern will be addressed every year as the need arises. 
"We want to form this council so that we have something es­tablished from year to year," he said. 
"If the campus had had a group like this when the hall notes issue came out last fall, the group would have been there to deal with it." 
Second, any council receives funding directly, an important benefit when putting together campus-wide surveys . 
"Surveys cost an incredible amount of money, but if this were a committee under Stu­dent Senate instead of a sepa­rate council, no funding would be given," Palermo said . 
The council must gain approval from IIPC if founded. 
In order for the council to be founded, it must be added to the undergraduate student body constitution. Any amend­ment to the constitution requires passage by both the HPC and the Student Senate. 
Telling of the growing home­·less population and of the 
increasing difference between 
the wealthy and poor in society, 
Nanni related that it is at the 
homeless shelter where he is 
inspired to improve. 
The people who have the 
least invested in society are the 
ones who are most empty, and 
who are consequently able to 
receive and to share God. 
According to Nanni, they have 
helped him to grow in ways 
that he needs, and wants, as a 
Christian . 
At the end of every day at the 
homeless shelter, Nanni stated 
that "we (the stafO are over­
whelmed with our limitations, 
and that two things ring true: 
How much we need each other, 
and how much we need God." 
In closing his lecture on 
"Community Service to Your 
Life", Nanni encouraged every­
one to embrace the brokenness 
in our society and in ourselves 
"We didn't see much getting done this year through the (present) committees in student government," Palermo said. "Student government just de­cided not to focus on those is­sues." 
Palermo stressed that the proposed council would not try to overshadow the current stu­dent government committees. Rather, the council would work to assist those committees. 
"I don't see it as opposition to any other committee. The council would only help out student government," Palermo said. 
The SRC would provide assis­tance by conducting surveys and researching Board of Trustees reports. for example. 
"The council will do the dirty work behind the actual activi­ties that the already estab­lished committee members put together," Beirne said. 
However, many HPC mem-
The ti¢k~~ of Brendan Kelly
Notre Dame Finance Club (president), Megan Hempelman (vice president), 
Michael Peppard (treasurer), 
Guest Speaker Series 


=f}fing Club 
Spring Semester
R. STI.PHEN BARREIT, )It Vice President & Controller 

Introductory Meeting
U.S. Operations 
1975 Notre Dame Graduate 

311A Cushing
"Careers in Wednesday, March I
Corporate Finance" 


8-9 p.m.
Wednesday March 1, 1995 . 7:00PM 221 Hayes..Healy 
All Welcomed 

as a way to God. As difficult as it is, Nanni espoused the worth 

• CORRECTION 
in trying to achieve the blend of 
Yesterday'~11 'report on the
spirit and soul. 
results of the class elections 
· misidentified one of the tickets 
which will appear on the 
sophomore class runoff ballot. 
and Jackie McAllister {secre­tary) will face a. runoff today against the Megan Murray (president), Peter Moriarty (vice president), Matt Griffin (secretary), and Connie Dougherty (treasurer) ticket. Dougherty's name was also misspelled in the article. The Observer regrets the errors. 


-----~----~~---·---~~----~~--~-----------­
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, March 1, 1995 

Rains cannot dampen Fat Tuesday festivities 
Trash," she said. "By dark, Mardi Gras. The Fat Tuesday Intermittent, driving rain Street Awards pageant, an
New Orleans' 

some of these people will have celebration falls each year on flooded streets, drenched floats annual French Quarter cos­that title in more ways than the day before Ash Wednesday and parade-goers and pushed tume show featuring cross­Mardi Gras one." and the 40 days of Lenten so­hard-drinking Bourbon Street dressers in elaborate head­
Beer and wine flowed for briety in this heavily Roman revelers indoors or under dresses and flowing capes. breakfast as Pete Fountain, the Catholic city. awnings and balconies. "I spent $3,000 on my cos­
rolls on despite 
jazz clarinetist, lurched onto All commerce grinds to a "The only bad thing is it wa­tume," cried Ricki Marino. "It's the parade route with his Half­halt. It's a statewide holiday. ters down my beer," said Ron white satin, white feathers andfoul weather Fast Marching Club. He tradi­Banks, doctors' offices, schools Edmund, 38, of Chicago. white tulle. I couldn't possible tionally heads toward the and most businesses are closed. Hotel and bar employees in wear it in this stuff. I'm
By MARY FOSTER 

French Quarter in advance of No mail is delivered. Only those the French Quarter shoveled crushed. What's Mardi Gras
Associated Press 

the big parades of Rex, king of involved in the most critical plastic cups and other debris without fantasy?" carnival, and Zulu, whose black trades show up for work. from clogged drains to help Parade-watchers on French
NEW ORLEANS 
marchers blacken their faces to "We hit town Friday night empty shin-deep water from Quarter balconies threw beads
The party roared all night in 
parody the other, mostly white and haven't stopped since," the narrow streets. to people below, whose
the French Quarter for Mardi 
krewes. said Curt Duplessis, 22, from An estimated 300,000 exposed themselves in
Gras today, but Mother Nature 
The sudden downpour at pa­Houston. "It's like a fever and tourists were in town. The rain exchange for the cheap plastic
had other ideas and rained ori 
rade time failed to stop Zulu, you can't quit until it burns appeared to have kept the necklaces.
the parade. 

which plowed ahead through out." crowds well below the project­"I think I should get extra to
Revelers used umbrellas, 
the puddled streets. But the The crowds have been bigger ed 1.2 million. pull up my blouse in this stuff," 
raincoats, tarpaulins and 
Rex group held back, hoping this year than any time in "This isn't bad. In fact, it's said Ada Langford, 31, of
sheets of plastic against a per­
for a break, and had still not memory, swollen by 300,000 good," said Connie Smith, a Boston.
sistent drizzle that widened 
started more than an hour tourists. Harvey, La., teacher clad in a Mardi. Gras, or Fat Tuesday.
into a downpour as the parades 
after starting time. skimpy harem outfit. "It clears falls on the day before Ash
were set to begin. 

One bedraggled wit begged ••• out the lightweights." Wednesday and the start of 40 
"We just slipped on garbage 
with a cup, crying, "Rain for Mayor Marc Moria!, dressed days of Lenten sobriety in this
bags to stay dry," said Cindi 
the needy, rain for the dry in Skimpy feathered and bead­as a Western sheriff. watched heavily Roman Catholic city. It
Miller of suburban Kenner. She 
Africa." ed costumes gave way to plastic parades from a reviewing wraps up 11 days of bawdy
arrived on the main parade 
The party will rage steadily ponchos and slickers as New stand. "I wish we could arrest Carnival parties and parades. 
route of St. Charles Avenue at 4 
until midnight, when police and Orleans' Mardi Gras celebra­the weatherman," he joked. Tuesday's storms came after
a.m., only to find it already 
garbage trucks sweep the side­tion turned into a huge, sloppy The deluge drove many a beautiful weekend of mostly
packed with parade-goers. 

walks clear to signal the end of party in the rain participants from the Bourbon dry, mild and sunny weather. 
"I guess we're the Krewe of 
wonder, 'Who is that nut?' but As a concerned citizen, 
drafting legislation concerning 
I think I make most people feel Courtney is very interested in 
revision of the Money Launder­
Flag Gurule
pride toward their country; I "social and moral issues that 
ing Control Act of 1986, which 
don't violate anyone's rights," have a political bearing," and 
he claims contains inconsistent
continued from page 1 continued from page 1
Courtney stated. he urges political involvement 
statutes and contingencies. 
"People see me sitting there in order to change a society
Courtney does not consider some courts require an inno­Gurule has been on the Notre 
and they wonder what I'm do­that he sees as plagued by cent owner to be both unaware
himself an activist, but he em­Dame faculty since 1989 and 
ing, and they think. Thinking many problems. 
phatically assures, "This is not and unconsenting in order to has served as an assistant U.S. 
leaves open the possibility of Until the hoped-for amend­be immune from seizure. The attorney general as well as a
my hobby. I am not retired; I 
change," he continued. ment becomes reality, Courtney 
am a concerned citizen. I hold other deficiency is that some federal prosecutor in Los Ange­
Courtney stated that he will continue to wave at people courts only require only one les.
a vigil for the flag, and this is 
knows he is doing some good. as they drive by, both those condition or the other for the
as important as any other call­
His ultimate goal is a new who are positive and those who owner to remain immune. 
ing." The South Bend Tribune con­
Constitutional amendment that are not. Gurule is also considering
For the most part, Courtney tributed to this report. 
would protect the flag from any "I still give those people who
believes he has received a fa­
form of desecration. There are are rude a thumbs up; I do not
vorable reaction from the 
Have something to say?
approximately 70 different pa­act unkind. I till the soil; God
passers-by. 

Use Observer classifieds. 
triotic organizations that are does the rest," Courtney said. 
"I know some people must 
working toward this same end. 


ESTEE LAUDER 
EXCLUSIVE 7-PIECE FREE GIFT 
A$50VALUE! YOURS FREE WITH ANY ESTEE LAUDER PURCHASE OF 16.50 OR MORE 
Your gift contains 7 Estee Lauder exclusives: 
•FRUITION 
TRIPLE REACTIVATING COMPLEX 

•2 FULL-SIZE ALL-DAY LIPSTICKS 

•TUSCANY 
PER DONNA EAU DE PARFUM SPRAY 


•LUCIDITY LIGHT-DIFFUSING MAKEUP 
•LIP DEFINING PENCIL 
•HAIRBRUSH Offer valid through March 12. One per customer, please. 
24 HOURS A DAY 1-800-528-2345 


LASAAYRES 
Wednesday, March 1, 1995 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 5 


Daughter of Malcolm X 
Clinton withdrawals in question feared mother's death 
By RICHARD KEIL there. ing and has said previously that Associated Press The indictment makes no di­the cash was used for the cam­By KARREN MILLS Fitzpatrick, and that most of rect accusations against the paign's turnout efforts in 
Associated Press the remarks on tape were WASHINGTON campaign, whose treasurer in Arkansas. His lawyer, Allen made by Fitzpatrick. A grand jury investigating the 1990 was Bruce Lindsey, now a Snyder, said Tuesday: "I can MINNEAPOLIS The defense also moved to Whitewater affair charged the top White House aide. It also tell you Mr. Lindsey has been A daughter of Malcolm X suppress the wiretap evidence, former president of an does not say why Ainley might cooperating with all the inde­feared that Nation of Islam which they claim was edited to Arkansas bank Tuesday with have sought to conceal the pendent counsel's inquiries. He 
leader Louis Farrakhan would present a false impression of concealing large cash with-transactions. has done absolutely nothing 
have her what was said. drawals by The indictment charges the wrong." mother, Betty Shabazz was 4 when she wit­Bill Clinton's conspiracy involved "others White House attorney Jane Shabazz nessed her father's 1965 as­1990 guber-known and unknown" to the Sherburne said "we are confi­killed, and sassination in a New York City nato rial grand jury, but it does not dant that campaign officials told a govern­ballroom. campaign. name them. conducted themselves properly ment infor­The indict-It also cites "various overt and lawfully." mant "It's Although the government ment cited acts" involved in the "further-Pither him or didn't describe a motive when three "overt ance of the conspiracy." Three David Kendall, a private at-my mother," it charged her in January with acts" involv-of those mention the involve-torney for President Clinton prosecutors trying to have Farrakhan ing cam-ment of "a representative of and his wife Hillary, issued a said in court killed, the implication was that paign aides. the 1990 Clinton Campaign." It similar statement, noting that papers. it was to avenge her father's Independent counsel Kenneth does not name the aides but the 1990 campaign had dis-
Qubilah Shabazz, who is death. Starr's office announced the states that: closed the get-out-the-vote ex­charglld with trying to hire a Farra:khan, who was re-five felony charges against Neal • A campaign representative penditures on state reports. hit man to kill Farrakhan, cruited into the Nation of Islam T. Ainley, former president of on or about May 25, 1990 pre-"The campaign did not have heli11ved her mother was tar­by Malcolm X and later al-Perry County Bank in sented to the bank four checks, any involvement whatsoever in geted for saying Farrakhan legedly sought to usurp some of Perryville, Ark. The indictment each in the amount of $7,500, the alleged wrongful conduct was involved in Malcolm X's his power, denies any involve-was handed up by the grand to be drawn from the cam-and would have had absolutely assassination, according to the ment in the assassination. He jury in Little Rock, Ark. paign's account at the bank. no reason to be involved," documents filed Monday. maintains Shabazz was set up The indictment alleges that • Ainley gave $30,000 in cash Kendall said. 
"Michael, I have a lot at by the government. Ainley was part of a conspiracy to the campaign aide on or Starr's statement said the stake. I lost my father and I'm Three men, including two that involved "concealing from about May 25. charges against Ainley in-risking losing my mother," members of the Nation. were the IRS and others the with-• Ainley gave $22,500 on eluded: · Shabazz told informant Michael convicted in Malcolm X's mur-drawal of large amounts of Nov. 2, 1990 to a campaign • One count of conspiracy to Fitzpatrick, according to the der. United States currency by the aide. defraud the federal government prosecution's documents. Also Monday, the prosecution 1990 Clinton campaign." A person familiar with the regarding the reporting of cur-
for the first time released de-campaign, speaking only on rency transactions, which car­
"1 do think that eventually tails of what it said was a state-Specifically, it states that Ain-condition of anonymity, said ries a maximum penalty of five he's going to in a very slick way ment signed by Shabazz admit-ley failed to report to the gov-Lindsey received the $30,000 years in prison and a $250,000 have her killed. OK, so it's ting that she initiated the plot ernment withdrawals of cash in May and that another fine upon conviction. nith11r him or my mother." and planned to pay Fitzpatrick $30,000 by the campaign on campaign official, whom he did • Two counts of causing a 
Shabazz's lawyers filed their up to $4,000. The prosecution May 25 and $22,500 on Nov. 2 not identify, accepted the bank to fail to file a currency own papers Monday asking for said Shabazz made a $250 ofthatyear. November withdrawal. transaction report. Each count the case to be dismissed. They down payment. Federal law requires that all Recently, Whitewater investi-carries a maximum of five said th11 conversations, though Defense attorney William cash transaction totaling more gators interviewed black minis-years and $250,000. iiiAgally recorded, bolster their Kunstler said earlier this than $10,000 be reported to ters and other community ac-• One count of making false claim that Shabazz was set up. month that Shabazz did not the Internal Revenue Service tivists in Arkansas about cash entries in bank records, which 
The defense said 38 of the have a lawyer present when and federal bank regulators. they received from the cam-carries a maximum 20 years approximately 40 taped tele-she signed the FBI statement Clinton's 1990 campaign took paign in connection with a get-and $1 million. phone calls between Fitzpatrick and was not read her Miranda out $180,000 in loans from the out-the-vote effort. • One count of making false and Shabazz were initiated bv rights. bank and had another account Lindsey has denied wrongdo-statements to a federal depart­
rr===========~~..-;;==~~==================~1-------------!ment or agency, which carries EngagementRings ~~~ ~maximum of five years and 
/1 $250,000.10%-15% OFF! The indictment alleges that
Be the One 
Official Wholesale Price List! Ainley intercepted from the 
bank's mail bin a report that 

Who brl.ngs the fun 
SSE.~!:;:,c~:;,oiL60602 would have notified the IRS 
ForaFrH32-PapColorCIItlllor ~bout the Nov. 2 cash transac­ToU-Fret (800) 922-0090 FAX (312) 977-6248 t10n. 
Jntemet Catalor at bttp: !lwww.6tqNCir..comlrtqNclc 

to Notre Dame. 
great research••• 
Bring the best speakers, the funniest comedians Kapla,a spends over $3 million annually developing products and researching the tests. we•ve proved 
and the most popular entertainers to campus 
that we know the tests inside out• 
... and get paid for it. 

In 1992, Kaplan predicted the elimination ............... of an LSAT question tyj1e and changed our course in anticipation of the change. 
Three positions for programming assistants 
In 1993, the ETS was forced to ..~............ withdraw a GRE question type because are available for 1995-1996 to students with ~ Kaplan "broke the code." 
e 
leadership ability and creative ideas ~ I 
In 1994, Kaplan research brought to lighti............ security flaws in the computer-based GRE 
tests. As a result, the ETS temporarily : pulled the test. 
who want to improve student life by • 
planning campus-wide events . 
• 
great results. 
Kaplan•s expertise translates 
into higher scores and greater
Pick up an application in the Student Activities Office 
confidence for our students. (315 LaFortune) and return it by Friday, March 10th. Put our research to work for you on test day. 
Interviews will be conducted March 23rd and March 24th so sign up for an interview 

;.......,.1-800-KAP·TEST 
when you turn in your application. 
geta higher score 
Questions? 





KAPLAN 
Call Gayle Spencer at 631-7308 
page 6 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, March 1, 1995 
Vote on balanced-budget amendment delayed 
Dole postpones President Clinton, who op­
poses the amendment, watched Vote 1i'~~ther than on television as e vents unfold-
u ed on the Senate floor, said 
White House press secretary 
Mike McCurry. He said Clinton
risk defeat 

met with White House chief of By DAVID ESPO staff Leon Panetta and planned Associated Press to call wavering senators. 
The amendment, already ap-
WASHINGTON proved by the House, would re-
In an atmosphere of excruci-quire a balanced budget by ating tension, Senate 2002, unless three-fifths of both Republicans forced an houses voted otherwise. overnight delay Tuesday for a Earlier in the day, final vote on Republicans coughed up a last-a balanced-minute concession barring fed-b u d g e t era! judges from ordering tax amendment hikes or spending cuts to bal­to the ance the budget, and pocketed Constitution. two Democratic votes in return. One vote shy, Still short of the support nee-GOP leaders essary to prevail, they negoti­struggled to ated for the support of Conrad, salvage the Dole and perhaps other Democrats, centerpiece of offering companion legislation their drive to shrink govern-that would place Social Security ment. off limits to budget-cutters 
Both sides wooed one waver-gradually over several years. ing Democrat, Kenr Conrad of "It's a clifThanger," said Sen. North Dakota. After feverish Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, a leading negotiations, Majority Leader supporter. Bob Dole decided to postpone As the time for a vote came the vote rather than risk defeat. and went, the 46-year-old 
Senators said the discussions Conrad was at the center of an 
focused on a Republican offer intense series of meetings-on 
to place Social Security trust a crowded Senate floor, then in 
funds off-limits to deficit cutters one party's cloakroom and the 
gradually over several years. other -as the two sides sought 
"This is a sad spectacle," the vote that could determine said the amendment's principal the amendment's fate. foe, Democrat Robert Byrd of The centerpiece of the West Virginia. "This has every Republican revolution in appearance of a sleazy, tawdry Congress, the proposed amend-effort to win a victory at the ment to the Constitution is cost of amending the designed to end the run-up in Constitution." federal debt that exceeds $4.8 
But Dole said the vote was trillion. A similar measure 
the most important in the cleared the GOP-controlled 
careers of many members of House in January. Senate pas-
the Senate, and that majority sage would mean the House 
Hepublicans have every right to would have to vote on the 
see if they can find the votes to newly modified version before 
prevail. "And I intend to do submitting it to the states for 
that." ratification. 
His announcement stunned a Before Dole's dramatic delay, 
chamber packed with senators both sides had delivered final 
ready to cast their votes after arguments on the measure, 
an epic, month-long battle on subject of a fierce, month-long 
the Senate floor. Aides ringed battle on the Senate floor. 
the back of the chamber and "This vote is one of the most 
tourists peered down from the important many of us will have 
gallery as the final showdown cast in decades," Dole said. 
was unexpectedly put off. "Congress needs the discipline" 
The decision to delay was by of an amendment to make ac­
voice vote. tual spending cuts, he said. 
DUQUESNE UNIVERSITY 

HIT THE HIGHWAY TO SUMMER DUQUESNE'S SUMMER SESSIONS OFFER: *TRANSFERABLE COURSES* *START DATES MAY THRU JULY* *ACCELERATED SES-SIONS* 
Registration is EASY ­by FAX, phone, mail, or in person 
INTERESTED? CALL 1-800-283-3853 FOR YOUR COMPLETE SUMMER 1995 INFORMATION/ APPLICATION PACKAGE 
Byrd, 77. said, "Change
merely for the sake of change" had become for some a virtue above all others. "But I will never, never bow to those roes­sengers of expedience or to the managers of any political par­ty's agenda," he said. Countered Hatch: "The salva­tion of our country depends on it. The future of our children depends on it." The man at the center of at­tention, Conrad, declared in an interview last week, "Persistence is my best qual­ity." He has said for days that his concerns focus on protecting the Social Security trust funds and making sure the amend­ment doesn't cripple efforts to help the nation out of future re­cessions. Elected to the Senate in 1986, Conrad renounced re-election in 1992, saying he had failed in his effort to bring the deficit under control. He changed his mind when the state's other senator, Quentin Burdick, died, and was easily returned to office. The Senate chamber, nor­mally all but deserted, was alive all afternoon with sena­tors waiting to cast their votes on a series of roll calls. Beyond its politically potent symbolic value -the measure is part of the House GOP's "Contract With America" and commands 70 percent support in the polls-Republicans said the measure would enforce dis­cipline. "If we don't pass this amendment, we don't balance the budget," said GOP Whip Trent Lott of Mississippi. "This is it." Democratic foes said it would lead to devastating spending cuts in social programs, permit Social Security trust-fund money to be used for deficit re­duction and cripple efforts to soften the impact of future re­cessions. 
GOP learns the art of compromzse 
By JILL LAWRENCE Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The art of drawing sharp lines may win elections, but more often it's the art of com­promise that begets new laws. Republican bargaining Tuesday on the balanced bud­get amendment was the latest recognition of legislative real­ity. 
Since taking control of both chambers of Congress several weeks ago, the GOP has soft­ened hard-line campaign stands on tax hikes, welfare checks and food stamps. The Senate offer to modify the constitutional amendment arrived at the last minute, with the survival of the measure at stake. 
House Republicans generally are convinced the GOP won its first majority in 40 years on the strength of a detailed, cam­paign-season "Contract with America" that outlined every­thing they'd try to do if they were in charge. 
Democrats deride the con­tract as "bumper-sticker poli­tics," far removed from the complexities of governing. 
Few Americans had heard of the contract at the time of the election and perhaps up to two-thirds are aware of it now, according to multiple polls. 
Still, House leaders are try­ing to stick as closely as possi­ble to what they believe is their mandate, -to vote on 10 major legislative packages in the first 100 days of the 104th Congress. 
The frenetic House pace is driving action in the Senate as well. 
However, the balanced bud­get amendment first exposed fault lines in the House. As proposed in the contract, the amendment would have required a three-fifths majority to raise income-tax rates. 
But GOP leaders did not have the votes to approve what amounted to a dramatic depar­ture from majority rule, and removed the provision. 

De~~re••• 
Lo-vE, YOIJ:R IIEIFE.R 
P.£I..II!!!I~ 

Wednesday, March I, 1995 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
U.N. troops leave Somalia Arrest made in search 
By REID MILLER aging the seaport for the United the American and Italian lines 
for Mexican assassins
Associated Press Nations. and prepare to depart 
investigations and that he left his successor. President Ernesto Zedillo, with a serious­ly troubled economy. 
In an television interview earlier Tuesday afternoon with the Televisa network's "24 Horas" news program, Carlos Salinas insisted that he had "done everything possible for the good of Mexico" during his six-year term, which ended Dec. 1. 
He defended the way he had handled the investigation of the Colosio killing, appointing an independent prosecutor "so that no one, not even the presi­dent, could impede the lines of investigation, suggest tasks or prevent any one person from being investigated." 
During the interview, there was no mention of the Ruiz Massieu case or the arrest of the former president's brother. 
Earlier Tuesday, Ruiz Massieu's own brother. the for­mer deputy attorney general Mario Ruiz Massieu, demanded tougher government action to solve a crime he blames on high-level figures in the PRI. 
Mario Ruiz Massieu applaud­ed investigators for the arrest Friday of a second suspected gunman in the March 23, 1994, killing of Colosio. 
"Nonetheless, I believe only the first step has been reached in the Colosio case," the former deputy attorney general said at a news conference to promote his new book, "I Accuse." 
Previously, investigators had insisted a sole gunman had shot Colosio at a Tijuana cam­paign rally. The arrest Friday appeared to confirm public suspicions of a conspiracy ­but left the motive for the slay­ing unclear. 
Mexico has been plagued by a series of spectacular, unsolved crimes over the past two years that have helped erode the government's credi­bility with the public and with investors -a factor that may have contributed to the coun­try's ongoing economic crisis. 
Ruiz Massieu resigned from the attorney general's office on Nov. 23, charging that senior officials in the PRI and the gov­ernment were blocking his efforts to solve a crime he blamed on anti-reform ele-
MOGADISHU, 

Hundreds of U.N. peacekeep­ers sailed off singing from Somalia on Tuesday, ending a frustrating tour of duty in a country so riven by clan war­fare that world powers have given up trying to help. 
American and Italian troops filled sandbags and dug firing positions in the dunes at Mogadishu's dusty, sandy air­port Tuesday, preparing to ~:over the retreat of the last 
1.500 U.N. peaeekeepers. 
The prospect that Somalis will be left to fend for them­selves in a nation no closer to democracy than when peace­keepers arrived 26 months ago to help deliver aid didn't heart­en the chairman of the U.S. .Joint Chiefs of Staff. 
"All of us hoped against hope the Somalis would get their house in order." Gen. John Shalikashvili told reporters in Washington. "They're on their own." 
The U.S.-Ied coalition troops eompleted the first half of their mission to safeguard the with­drawal of U.N. peacekeepers by coming ashore without incident Monday night and Tuesday morning. 
They landed on the beach just ofT the seaside airport and at the nearby seaport, where they relieved 903 Bangladeshi 
U.N. peacekeepers. The Bangladeshis started for home about eight hours later. 
"They were all singing and having a good lime when they lnft." said Eddie Jones of Baltimore. who has been man-
The departure of the Bangladeshis left only 1, 500 Pakistani peacekeepers to be extracted by the U.S.-led multi­national force, but its comman­der said that could be the trick­iest part of the mission. 
Marine Lt. Gen. Anthony C. Zinni noted that his force had landed on friendly territory held by the U.N. peacekeepers. But after the Pakistanis leave, the Americans and Italians will have their backs exposed as they follow. 
Zinni and his subordinates expect to see looters, perhaps by the hundreds, pour into the airport as the Pakistanis pull out, with possible firefights breaking out as they scramble for the booty left behind. 
Most valuable equipment al­ready has been shipped out and the looters will be fighting "for treasures that we'd call trash," said Army. Sgt. 1st-Class Jose Bailey of El Paso, Texas. 
"We expect to see a lot of looting and some firing when the pullout takes place," said 1st Lt. Craig Price of Williamsburg, Va., command­ing a Marine platoon dug into a forward position on the American perimeter. 
"We filled about 500 sand­bags today," Price said. "The guys haven't had any sleep, ex­cept perhaps for some 10­minute naps. They're pretty tired, but we'll get about three hours sleep tonight before the fun begins." 
That will be before dawn Wednesday, as the Pakistanis, who have been holding the air­port, begin to pull back through Thursday. 
The Pakistanis have been holding positions all around the seaside airport and at strategic locations nearby. 
Most of the 1,500 American Marines and the 329 Italian troops dug into high sand dunes a few hundred yards from the sea, establishing for the Pakistanis a corridor to the seaport, about three miles to the north. 
After the Pakistanis sail Thursday, Zinni said it would take about eight hours for the Americans and Italians to fall back to the beach on which they landed from their posi­tions at the port and in the dunes. 
They will go back to their ships the same way they came ashore, on landing craft, Hellcat hovercraft and am­phibious armored vehicles. Cobra helicopters, Harrier fighter jets and A0-1 30 aerial gunships will cover the final phase. 
Brig. Gen. Aboo Samak, the Malaysian who has been in command of U.N military forces in Somalia, handed over com­mand to Zinni at a brief cere­mony on the airport tarmac Tuesday. 
Then Aboo and the U.N. spe­cial envoy to Somalia, James Victor Obeho, boarded an exec­utive jet and flew to Nairobi, Kenya. 
The American and Italian troops who came ashore Monday are part of a 14,000­strong force providing a rear guard for the retreating U.N. peacekeepers. 
1995 Transfer Orientation Chairperson 
Pick up applications in Student Government office Second Floor LaFortune 
Application Deadline: March 1st, 4:00pm 

Miss Indiana USA Pageant Seeks Contestants! I I 
Winner will compete for the Miss USA Title and be seen on CBS TV by 300,000,000 people!! 
No performing talent required! 
Winning this pageant will change your life, plus you'll win fabulous prizes. Our Miss USA prize package was worth over $207,000!! 
If you're between the ages of 18-26, single & never been married, call us for free entry info. 
Call: (219) 477-6603 today!! Pageant takes place June 11!! This is glamour and excitement ou'll never fo t!! 

By BILL CORMIER 
Associated Press 
MEXICO CITY 

The brother of a former Mexican president was arrest­ed Tuesday in connection with the assassination of a high­ranking, reformist leader of the ruling party. 
The arrest of Raul Salinas de Gortari was a startling develop­ment in one of three unsolved assassinations of top Mexican leaders over the past year. The Attorney General's Office scheduled an evening news conference on the case, but it wasn't immediately clear what Raul Salinas' connection was to the killing. 
A spokeswoman for the fed­eral attorney general's office confirmed local news reports that Salinas, 48, was arrested Tuesday afternoon. 
Radio Red said federal police had arrested him in connection with the September 1994 slay­ing of Jose Francisco Ruiz Massieu, No. 2 man in the rul­ing Institutional Revolutionary Party, known as the PRI. 
Investigators had been puz­zled by the assassination, and in the past were unable to come up with a motive. Raul Salinas is the brother of former President Carlos Salinas de Gortari, who left office in December. Both were brothers­in-law of the victim. 
The news of Raul Salinas' arrest comes on the heels of the government's announce­ment Friday that last year's murder of Luis Donaldo Colosio, presidential candidate of the ruling party, was the result of a conspiracy and that a second gunman had been arrested. 
Many Mexicans have long suspected a conspiracy in those two killings, as well as the 1993 assassination of a Roman Catholic cardinal in the west­ern city of Guadalajara. 
The PRI. which has ruled Mexico since it was formed in 1929, currently is racked by infighting between reformers and members of the old guard, who want to retain power at any cost. 
Carlos Salinas has bristled at suggestions that his adminis­tration either bungled or cov­ered up the assassination 
'. 1. I., 

page 8 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, March 1, 1995 
Fighting escalates in Bosnia with new attacks 
By JULIJANA MOJSILOVIC 
Associated Press 
MALA KLADUSA, Bosnia 

The escalation in fighting that diplomats feared was just around the corner arrived Tuesday as government posi­tions in northwestern Bosnia came under fierce attack. 
Rebel Muslims, along with Serbs from Bosnia and Croatia, attacked government positions south of Velika Kladusa in the Bihac region shortly after mid­night. 
Maj. Herve Gourmelon, a U.N. military spokesman, said U.N. observers recorded over 800 detonations and more than 1,500 bursts of gunfire Tues­day. 
A convoy of nine U.N. aid ve­hicles had to be abandoned af­ter being caught in cross-fire, but there were no reports of in­juries, he said. 
A few miles east of Velika Kladusa, smoke billowed Tues­day from a house believed to have been occupied by gov­ernment troops before it was hit by fire from a 76mm cannon manned by rebel Muslims loyal to Fikret Abdic. 
Abdic's commanders said 

their troops had occupied 10 square miles south of Velika Kladusa, cutting off the only supply road for the government army north of Bihac. U.N. offi­cials, however, could not con­firm any change in the front lines. 
When the war began in 1992, Abdic, a Velika Kladusa busi­nessman, cut dea-ls with Serbs to spare his area fighting. In 1993, he formally broke with the Muslim-led government in Sarajevo, and since then his forces have fought alongside Serbs in northwestern Bosnia. 
Edin Omerbasic, a 20-year­old Abdic soldier toting an AK­47 assault rifle, cursed the body of a government soldier as he and some comrades put it on a horse-drawn carriage for bur­ial. Two other bodies were seen in a valley between two hills taken in the rebel offensive. 
The soldiers said government troops had withdrawn from two villages and four strategic hills. 
"We should have continued and destroyed the (govern­ment's) 505th brigade," Omerbasic said. 
Abdic's troops reported four men lost and several wounded when government troops launched a counter-offensive at midday. Three government sol­diers were captured. 
"I surrendered to Abdic's sol­diers, but it would have been better for me if I had been killed," said Hamid Durakovic, 36, one of the POWs. He said he was afraid to be exchanged be­cause "they would kill me im­mediately." 
Fighting flared elsewhere Tuesday in Bosnia-Herzegov­ina: 
• In north-central Bosnia, a 
U.N. military observer saw a Serb tank fire a shell on the vil­lage of Rakija. killing one civil­ian and seriously injuring another, Gourmelon said. 
• 
Bosnian Serbs also fired machine guns at a U.N. heli­copter flying over Konjic, south­west of Sarajevo, he said. The helicopter was not hit. 

• 
Tensions were high in Sarajevo, the capital, where the United Nations logged 600 fir­ing incidents over a 24-hour period. 


U.N. aid workers said Tues­day that more than 350 ethnic Serb civilians had fled three vil­lages west of government-held Travnik during a weekend gov­ernment assault. U.N. military 
Russians intimidate Chechens 
By CHRIS BIRD 
Associated Press 
GROZNY 
Alongside a sign declaring "Stop! We shoot without warn­ing!," dozens of Chechen men were lined up Tuesday, spread-eagled against a wall to be frisked by Russian sol­diers. 
"It's the first time I have raised my hands for anyone," Musa Edilov said in disgust at the checkpoint outside Grozny. 
''I'm not scared of the 

Russians, just ashamed that I have to enter my own land in such a way. It's like the German occupation," the 65­year-old man said. 
Then, picking up his bat­tered rucksack, Edilov headed off to look for the remains of his home. It was his first trip back since fleeing Grozny last month. 
The Russian military pres­ence in the Chechen capital is intimidating. Russian troops have totally ringed Grozny, wiping out the last rebel resis­tance. 
(3aCI41t~JUIU)' "ritaft p~ ~ 
I&eckl.ess 
By Craig Lucas 
Tonight and Tomorrow Night 
7:30p.m. Washington Hall Tickets Available at LaFortune Box Office $3.00 




JRZZMRN'S 
NITE CLUB 
525 N. Hill St. 
Presents a college night party of the month this 
Thursday, March 2nd. *Two live bands -Reggae & Blues *Two Dfs & Guest Dfs *Two dance floors 
Chance to appear on USA, ESPN, A&E, TNT, SportsChannel, and other TCI Cable TV networks. All persons entering must sign television release forms. Hot wings available, guest musicians and singers welcome! $6.00 cover with student or Univ. staff ID $8.00 without above ID Doors open 9 PM Call233-8505 for Info. M-S after 4 PM 
Armored personnel carriers roared past on patrol in the shattered city, covering resi­dents in a layer of dust as they returned to Grozny pushing makeshift carts stuffed with belongings. 
Soldiers in balaclavas and mirror-shades popped out of foxholes hidden in the rubble every few hundred yards, brandishing automatic weapons and asking for identi­ty papers. 
The Chechens complained of looting by Russian troops. 
sources said it did not appear the fighting, about 40 miles northwest of Sarajevo, was con­tinuing. 
In an interview with the gov­ernment's BH Press news agency, Bosnian Gen. Rasim Delic said his army was more prepared than ever to pursue a battlefield solution to Bosnia's nearly 3-year-old war if a cur­rent truce is abandoned. 
The Sarajevo government has repeatedly threatened to aban­don the Jan. 1 cease-fire, which runs to May 1. The government accuses Serbs of violating the truce from the beginning. 
The cease-fire was estab­lished amid hopes it would lead to negotiations on a permanent peace for Bosnia. Such talks are nowhere in sight. 
Bosnian Serbs have refused international pressure to ac­cept, even tentatively, a plan to divide the republic between them and a Bosnian Croat­Muslimfederation. 
The war began when Bosnian Serbs rebelled against a deci­sion by Croats and Muslims to secede from the former Yu­goslavia. An estimated 200,000 people have been killed or are missing. 
Bosnia update 
D Bosnian Serb 8J Serb·held Croatia llllli Government-Croat C U.N.·designated federation "safe zones" 

Recent developments 
D Civilians were killed and wounded in the towns of Cazin and Busim by heavy Bosnian Serb and renegade shelling. 
fJ Shelling near Velika Kladusa forced drivers of a recently unloaded convoy to abandon their trucks. 
IJ Serbs raked a streetcar with 
automatic small-arms fire during a 
firelight with government forces. 
IJAt least 350 villagers have fled as government forces press an offensive. 
AP/Carl Fox 

The Observer 
is looking for Assistant Advertising Manager 
Do you want experience in sales, publishing, management and good times? Apply for Assistant Ad Manager by 5 pm, Sunday, March 5! Call John Potter@ 1-6900 or 4-1023 with questions. Submit a 1-2 page statement with resume to 314 LaFortune. 

WE NEED A FEW GOOD PEOPLE 
Kids Corporation operates Summer educational programs in Newark, New Jersey. Each summer we hire college students who are interested in urban education and the needs of young children. This is not a job, it is an experience. We work long hours to provide the kids with a sense of hope and opportunity. 
Students receive $100 per week, room and board, and three college credits in Urban Education from St. Vincent College. The work is hard and the hours long, but the kids are great. If you are interested in learning more about this opportunity write or call: 
Kids Corporation 139 Lincoln ..Laurel Rd. Newton, N.J. 07860 
Orlando I. Perozzi Director 908..362..7410 
Meet at the CSC Thursday, March 2 from 6--8 p.m. if you are interested 
. ~: .............................. --... -.. ..i -.. -. . --• -... ~ I. • =-.. -=­




VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, March 1, 1995 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
N.,ys Editor ................................ David Tyler Advenising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager...................... Ryan Maylayter Spons Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery SyS!ems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director...............Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor............... Eiizabeth Regan Controller..................................... Kriscen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre I l.tmc du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Ir docs not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­rion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­wrials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Ediwr, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. ( :ommcntarics, lencr"i and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and tn all reader::.. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent /Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.l@nd.edu (~cncral Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 

• CAPITOL COMMENTS 

Georgetown: Another way of doing things 
My good friend, a Georgetown under­graduate and law school graduate, often compares his "premier" Catholic univer­sity to my "backward" Notre Dame. This week he called, and I expected to hear more of his anticipation of Notre Dame's joining the Big East Basketball Conference. lie acts like a wolf settling over a carcass when he thinks of the Irish taking on the Hoyas. 
However, during this conversation he hngan with a joke. "Did you hear about the Notre Uame priest during a recent ,·onfession? It began, 'Bless me father for I have sinned. I'm a homosexual stu­dnnt.' And the priest did not say any­thing." 
Gary Caruso 

I sat there on the phone in silence, and after a pause he continued, "Get it? The priest did not recognize him!" Then my friend continued by ridiculing Notre Dame for banning GLND/SMC from using the counseling facilities. He said, "For Christ sake, you won't even let them use the counseling center they had used for nine years? What kind of right­wing nuts do you have out there?" 
Dealing with a constant barrage of rib­hing about mediocre sports perfor­mances is one thing. Having to defend what reasonable Catholics believe is a l'ruel discriminatory edict from the Notre Dame administration is a public relations nightmare for thb ND alum­nus. I can imagine the consternation the ND Public Relations Department must he having. 
It seems tragic to me that all Catholic academic institutions do not adhere to a uniform policy regarding controversial issues. I thought that Georgetown had the Jesuit liberal philosophy while Notre Dame had a conservative bent stemming from the Holy Cross Order. However, my theory was shot when I learned that St. Edward's of Austin, Texas recognizes its Gay student organization and is run by the Holy Cross. 
Let me make two points and one sug­gestion. First, Georgetown and Catholic University are mandated by the District of Columbia anti-discrimination laws to recognize their Gay students. In fact, Georgetown was barred from building medical facilities and floating municipal bonds to raise funding until it made that recognition. In light of what extremists call this "special privilege," neither in­stitution has decreased its commitment to the Catholic Church. Neither institu­tion is thought of less. In fact, they both are probably thought of as more Christian than Notre Dame, especially in light of the NO administration's recent reactionary stance. 
Secondly, I believe that the Archdiocese of Washington, of which I am a member, was confronted with a similar problem when James Cardinal Hickey was first confronted by a Gay Catholic organization called "Dignity." Dignity celebrated mass in a Catholic Church basement every Sunday evening. The Cardinal banned masses in Archdiocese facilities, but permitted priests to continue saying mass at a neu­tral facility. My parish, St. Matthew's Cathedral, also established a support group called "Courage" to help Gays come to terms with themselves and to offer them support within the Catholic Church. 
New Republic editor, Andrew Sullivan, visited Notre Dame recently. He is a parishioner of St. Matthew's Cathedral. Although I have no firsthand knowledge of the fact, I am certain he had a voice in establishing the compromise with Cardinal Hickey. Notre Dame needs to take notice of the solutions of a Cardinal who will take part in selecting our next Pope. The academic community has never been one to handle politics or 
• GARRY TRUDEAU,f:>BURY 
TH~ 7R1fTH /5, UIH~N Y(}{J 


17'5 JIJ5TOIJT
7H&R& 15/1/TA HIGH 
OFCQNT/lOI,!
SOifXJI.-INTHtCtXIN-. 
IfI /IJ&R&
7FY 70l1AYIUHEI?e •. 
RJ.JNNINGA
ya;CAN'TJU5TIAJIW( ' 
HIGH 5{)100~.
UPllJA Glf?L..AN/7 
I'll PUTA §llJP
OPffNl.YA~ HeR 
7DITINA
fOR. A VAT&.' 
HEAIU'BCATl 
tooK ATWeTY'9 /U~­
7Cf.N PR£6NANCY, UNWW MOTH&I?S, ABOI<TlON, AII?S­
SO MANY OP 7H&M fi!AI<T IAIITH HIGH 5(J(()()I.-DlfTIN6! 


diplomacy with style or savvy. The solu­tion should be obvious. 
Both sides should forget the past, and start in gradual steps, on a one-year trial basis if necessary. The administra­tion should allow GLND/SMC to at least use the counseling facilities with support from qualified counselors, not dogmatic ideologues or zealous "outers" who report back to parents without the con­sent of the students. If the administra­tion does not officially recognize GLND/SMC during the trial period, it should permit the group co-participation in events that an officially recognized organization sponsors. 
In return, GLND/SMC could clearly define its mission as a support group and not a place to cruise for others. It should be educational in scope and only hold socials off campus. Mter a year of the trial period, evaluate the matter and then work toward full recognition. 
Notre Dame cannot be a leader with­out leading. Coeducation was a drastic step for some backward-thinking ad­ministrators, but ND is better for it. Blindly ignoring pedophiles, child moles­ters, and alternative life-styles only sets back the Catholic Church. My archdio­cese is currently prosecuting four pedophile priests with openness and candor. It eases public concern, relieves Catholics in the area, and raises the respect for the church due to its open­ness. 
One thing Notre Dame does not need is for conservative students to call for GLND/SMC students to transfer to state schools when many of those same stu­dents drink while under age and break parietals. The next to last thing Notre Dame needs is for homophobic students to use the administration's edict as a justification to hate and discriminate. And the last thing Notre Dame needs is to fall back on an easy dogmatic response rather than lead with innova­tion and reconciliation. 
My Georgetown friend offers these last words after looking through the ND phone directory. "Notre Dame better seriously scrutinize. its officially sanc­tioned clubs because it is going to find the Young Democrats represent a party that is pro-choice and pro-Gay. The Northern Ireland Awareness Group probably is sympathetic to the IRA. Your Muslim Students Association and Baptist Student Union only have status because of a special provision in the Constitution. When are you guys going to get with it?" 
Gary J. Caruso, ND '73, has worked in Washington, D.C. at the U.S. House of Representatives for two Congressmen and two House Committees. He is cur­rently a "Displaced Democrat" seeking a new position. 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''Do not take life too seri­ously-you will never get out of it alive." 
-Albert Hubbard 
PJ) 0 



VIEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, March 1, 1995 
• lHURS TO THE Eom:nt 

Rice fails to reflect ND values 
Dear Editor: 
A couple days ago I read Pro­fessor Charles Rice's column in concerning ROTC and its pres­Puce on campus. The general tenor of the article is bellicose, and toward the end of it he says: 
"Not only is pacifism not a dictate of Christianity, pacifism is an unworkable and base creed unworthy of any people, Christian or otherwise, who would remain free." 
I object strongly to this char­acterization. In saying this Rice insults and defames the memo­ry of Mahatma Ghandi, Martin Luther King and many other lesser known martyrs who have paid with their lives for the ideals of peace and justice. 

There are many Christians in the world today who have struggled in their souls with the saying of our Lord "If a man hits you on the right cheek, turn him the other one" and other of His seemingly pacifist utterances and deeds. Some of these sincere individuals have decided that the only tenable position for them is that of paci­fism. Professor Rice's statement grants the earnestness of these people nothing, nor does it respect the possibility that the energy they devote to peaceful ways of solving problems con­tributes to the well-being of humanity and the work of the Lord as much as our armies (which I personally believe also have a role to play). 
Because of his standing as a senior faculty member, Profes­sor Rice's statements in a pub­lic forum such as the Observer implicitly bear the imprimatur of both the University of Notre Dame and its Law School. An apology is due to both. He has insulted both of these in­stitutions, neither of which (to my knowledge) supports the belligerence he has committed to print. 
ALAN YODER 
Dept. of Computer Science and 
Engineering 
~ 


FOcUsing on tragedy 
Dear Editor: 
•... A$ a pto~life member of the·Notre Dame community I feel the need to respond to the letters written by Kerry Mulvaney and Rene Rimelspach, Although their arguments were well present­ed, they lacked clarity on whom exactly an unborn child's life belongs to, A woman does not own the life of her child, rather it belongs to Itself and God alone, What right does the government have to empower women to determine a fate that is not theirs? 
Rapels a horfHic. violation of a woman's body. Although many people believe that abortion will lessen the pain, it will only compound the emotional trauma that a woman suffers after such an incident Rather than focusing on the small number of abortions ~hatoccur as a result of rape, we should address the majority of abortions that are a result of carelessness. 
Within our society there exists a tendency to trivialize abor­tion, Instead of concentrating on rights and laws. we should be concerned with the tragedy of the deaths that occur every day. 
MEG CHRISTENSEN Freshman Breen-Phillips Hall 


Alumni offer real-world insights, advice Ban reflects injustice 
Dear Editor: 

I was recently notified by GALA-ND/SMC: (Gay and Lesbian '\lumni of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College) that Notre Dame is actively discriminating against a group of the school's sons and daughters by forbidding the student organi­zation GLND/SMC from holding support group meetings on the University's campus. 
As a graduate of Notre Dame, I find the administration's actions socially indefensible and philosophically flawed. Actions like this clearly demonstrate why our alma mater ranks among the coun­try's 20 worst major schools for its treatment of gay students (The Princeton Review) . This move shows a lack of administrative compassion and appears to many beyond the ivy walls as blatant social injustice. 
As a member of GALA-ND/SMC, I support our organization's 
mandate to work with the University and College to provide equity 
of treatment to all students, regardless of their sexual orientation. 
In a recent survey, GALA asked its members to help prioritize the 
goals of the organization. The two highest priorities from that 
membership vote were: to provide financial and moral support to 
the gay and lesbian students on the two campuses, and to confront 
anti-gay and anti-lesbian policies of the University and College. 
To those ends, I request that the University seriously, and com­
passionately, reconsider its decision to ban GLND/SMC as a legiti­
mate student organization. I hope that the administration will fol­
low the wisdom and lead displayed by the Graduate Student 
Council and the broader student body, and open its arms to this 
rourageous and vital group of sons and daughters. 
ALEXANDER WEAVER Chicago Notre Dame '77 

ND should embody understanding Moral authority not 

Dear Editor: · I am writing in response to the university's decision to bar Gays and Lesbians of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College {GLND/SMC) from using cam­pus facilities. I graduated from the University of Notre Dame in 1967, received my doctorate from the University of Ne­braska in 1975, and have taught at Montana State Uni­versity-Billings (MSU-B) for the past twenty years. 
In September 1994, I became the faculty advisor for the newly-founded Lambda Al­liance at MSU-B, a student or­ganization for g ays/les b i ans/bise xu als. l.ambda Alliance has received support, encouragement, and acceptance from fellow stu­dents, faculty, staff, and administrators. The adminis­tration recognized Lambda .\lliance as an official student organization with the same rights and privileges granted to any other officially recognized student group. 
In the first months of its exis­tence Lambda Alliance has played a significant role in the fJIIality of life on MSU-B's earn­pus. On October 11 (National Coming Out Day), the organiza­tion celebrated diversity with a 
window display in the campus bookstore. In mid-November, the group sponsored a concert by Fred Small, a well-known singer/songwriter who deals with current social and politi­cal issues. On December 1 (World AIDS Day), the students made the campus aware of the impact of AIDS in our lives. They received permission to decorate a tree on campus with red ribbons and name cards of loved ones who have died from AIDS. A prayer service led by members of the Catholic Campus Ministry and the United Campus Ministries was held near the tree at noon on December 1. In the evening, the students participated in a community AIDS prayer service at a local Lutheran church. Future events sponsored by Lambda Alliance will include classroom speaking engage­ments, films, lecturers, and 
dances. 
When I was a student at Notre Dame from 1963 to 196 7, there was no visible sup­port for a gay student. Only recently did I come out as an openly gay faculty member at MSU-B. My growth as a gay person has taken many years, partially because the schools where I was educated did not recognize the existence of gays and lesbians. I wonder how my life would have unfolded if there were a student organiza­tion at Notre Dame which would have helped me to learn about my identity as a gay per­son and would have connected me to the larger campus com­munity. 
As an openly gay faculty member, I recognize the ne­cessity of providing students and other members of the cam­pus community with a con­tributing role model in higher education. I see gay and les­bian students at MSU-B feeling positive about being who they are and about having vital roles to play in the life of an academic community. 
I urge you to support the recognition of GLND/SMC as an official student organization at the University of Notre Dame. Notre Dame should be a leader in responding with understand­ing and love to all people re­gardless of gender, race, class, religion, and ethnic or sexual orientation. Otherwise, what else does Notre Dame stand for? 
JAMES JJEALEY Notre Dame '67 


grounded in hatred 
Dear Editor: 
On the same day that I heard that the Gays and Lesbians of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's were no longer allowed to continue meeting in their nine-year "residence" at the University Counseling Center, I read in the Boston Globe that Oscar Wilde will be recognized with a memorial window in Poet's Corner at Westminster Abbey, along with Shakespeare, Milton, Dickens, 
T.S. Eliot and Dylan Thomas. Oscar Wilde's grandson's comment reminded me of the Notre Dame decision, "It's rather nice that, of all branches of the Establishment, it should be the church that is the first to forgive and forget.» 
Unfortunately, too many people and institutions in our country today denounce homosexuality, but the Catholic Church cannot allow itself to be party to this hatred since its moral authority is grounded in the way Jesus lived his life. You who read the New Testament know that if Jesus were alive today, he would be spending his time with the most despised segments of our popu­lation: gays and lesbians, the homeless, those with AIDS, welfare mothers, etc. The individuals-and institutions-who wrap them­selves in their religion and take self righteous stands against these scorned people, would be considered modern-day Pharisees. Not, I assume, something with which Notre Dame or Saint Mary's would like to be identified. 
When Britain decided to "forgive and forget" this talented gay man of the last century, it did so in a big way-essentially erecting a shrine to him. Let's take a tip from Westminster Abbey and be big about this, too. This group not only needs a regular meeting center, it needs to be recognized as an official campus group and it needs to be formally welcomed into the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community. It's the courageous thing to do. It's the right thing to do. 
KATHLEEN BARLOW SOLDATI Saint Mary's College '72 
\I I • 
,...,­





ACCENT 
Wednesday, March 1, 1995 
page II 



By CATHERINE FIELD 
.'\ccrnr Writer 
W
riter and Notre Dame alumnus, Tom O'Neil's new and expanded edition of Sex With God is a collection of controversial gay poetry which is predominantly militant in tone. The poems rnlatn O'Neil's snarch for a just God, his search for a homosexual lover, and his bitter anger toward the Catholic Church. !lis militant voice is sure to offend many readers. 
In the pcwms, he snnms to have declared war against all the r.on­vtmtional views of God and the Catholic Church. For instance. in one poem entitled ".Jesus is Seen at a Gay Bar," he writes, 
I eaught sight of I lim that night, looking sexy in his sackcloth and ridiculous in a Groueho 
Marx disguise ... 

In a forty-fiVI~ minute phone interview held with him, O'Neil, a former editor-in-chief of The OhsPJ'ver, was careful to point out that he believed the militant stance has been seized by him as well as other Catholic gay and lesbians who have been ostraeiwd by the Church, saying that a militant stance is rweessary in order to fight against "n•ligious bigotry." In his confrontational introduction to .\'ex With God, O'Neil gives PXamplc~s of Church leaders who have been intolerant of gay and lesbians. lie writes, "llown in the nearby City of Brotherly Love, wlwre children apparently deserve to die of lnukmnia and the homeless from Pxposum, Philadelphia Cardinal .John Krol ac~tually told a reporter, 'The spread of \IDS is an act of vengeance against the sin of homosnx uality. "' 
In addition to being militant. the voice in his poPrns is intnnsnly personal and often sex­ually c•xplirit. ovt~rwhelming and -.hol'king llw rPader with the pont's sexual passion and his bit­lPr anger. However, O'Neil. as a poPt is su!'enssl'ul in exploring univPrsaltruths in this highly per­sonalizPd manrwr. llis quest for gPnuirw acceptance and fulfilling spiritual love is one in which all humans partakt•, regardless of their sex­ual. political. or religious orientation. llis IH•st pomns are tlw ones in which he uses his powerful command of language to move the reader to 
When asked about writers that have significantly influenced his poetry, O'Neil replied, "Without a doubt. .. Anne Sexton." Anne Sexton and the movement "Confessional League" inspired him to experiment with the "confessional style" and "themes" in his writ­ing. That experimentation eventually led to the first publication of Sex With God in 1989. 
The new and expanded edi­tion of Sex With God was just released in the fall of the 1994. This new edition still includes popu­lar artist, Ty Wilson's original calli­graphic line illustrations. The new edition also includes a short sequel, The Ashes of 
Eden which contains the poems O'Neil wrote in response to his partner's being diagnosed with AIDS. 
Within this short sequel, O'Neil still raves against God and the Church, but his anger is now shaded with sadness. In the 
poem entitled, "Depression," he writes, 
The hardest thing about this life is looking through an old address book and trying not to peek through the 'X's' because corpses sometimes peek baek through those inky crosses I finally made 
a year after we buried them. 
During the interview O'Neil did not emphasize the sadder parts of his poetry or life. Rather, he discussed politics, religion, and (as one might expect) his views on his Alma Mater's recent refusal to endorse GLND/SMC as an official university club. O'Neil believes Notre Dame has "failed the ultimate test of 
Christian kindness at a Catholic University." O'Neil commented, "No one is asking Notre Dame to 
defy Rome. What everyone is asking Notre Dame to do is exactly what the other Catholic universities" around the country have done. They have given gay and lesbian students a "safe space" to "search their souls" and to find 
spiritual support. 
O'Neil stated that he would like to "lend his voice to the students of Notre Dame" and show his encouragement 
by offering his poetry. 
This picture was created by Ty Wilson and used in Thomas O'Neil's book of poems entitled Sex With God . 
on? 
OPen The Door rAn AnthemJ 

God Here on these stePs to an elusive Heaven Your altar boys are now erown UP and. felled by the Love Diesase. have come home to die. 
nnside the church. a Priest holds UP the skeleton keY and snickers to the PrettY nun: ··sillY boYs. If onlY they•d eive uP Iovine each other. we·d let them inl..J 
Inside where we could lie finallY under Your eolden altar. God. and sine the Requiem with You. It is not this disease we blame You for. onlY the door closed to souls swelled with faith. aneer. fear and Pain and needine the sanctuary of Your love. 
OPen the door God SurelY You remember what Death was like the seerine flesh. Your crY to Heaven: WhY have You forsaken us? 
rEPiloeueJ 
And let the boY droP and fall to Hell 

leavine behind a bewildered Christian mom to laY down the lawn blanket and Plarit his cross 
• INTO THE ARCHIVES 
@}Vinety yeat:s antJ stilt sin9intj yout: son9 
By DAN CICHALSKI 
Al'<:onr Writrr 
C
heer, cheer for old Notre Dame . . Oh, thosH are familiar words, the opening line of a tune known so well here in South Bend. They are the words that alumnus .Joe Theismann sang during ESPN's coverage of the National Football League draft last April and the words that Sports Illustrated has used, at least once, as a headline for an article on the celebrated Notre llanw football team. They are the words written by Father Michael and .John F. Shea, Irish brothers and, pre­rlictably, Notn1 Dame alumni. 
Wake up the echoes cheering her name . .. 
But what did the "boys" at Notre I>arne rally their teams with in the days hdore our nationally-known "Victory 
•\1arch" came along? A look through 67 YlHtr-nld issues of Notre Dame .'·h:lwlastic up in the archives of llnsburgh Library produces a basic his­tory of how the Sheas' composition lmcanw a symbol of our university. 
,')'end a volley cheer on high . .. 
One hundred years ago students were disappointed by the fact that Notre Dame did not have a cheer to call its own. Several cries were used at sport­ing events but were consequently deemed unsuitable for the simple rea­son that they were not original, but variations and parodies of cheers used by other colleges. Ironically, one yell utilized at baseball games that the Scholastic denounced was a parody of a chant used by students at the University of Michigan. Unfortunately, the publi­cation does not elaborate on the version bellowed by the nineteenth century Domers, but one wonders if it resembles the imitation we still use today. 
Shake down the thunder from the sky... 
To solve this problem of cheer-steal­ing, the writers at Scholastic came up with their own battle ery which they at­tempted to implant in the minds of the students: 
N.D.-IIurrah! D.U.-Hurrah! 
The Gold-Hurrah! The Blue­
Hurrah! 

Houp-a-ra-hoo-ra-hoo-ra·hoo! 
Notre Dame....!Rah-Hurrah-N.D.U.! 
What though the odds be great or small... 
So time takes us to 1908 and, not sur­prisingly, the cheer from 1895 has not caught on as the Notre Dame fight song. Other attempts had been made to eome up with an inspiring melody to be sung by the student body in support of the 
athletic  teams,  but  none  of them  
seemed to be The Righ t One.  Consider  
the following:  

When Purdue comes to town, 
They are sure to be done brown. 
We'll run up an awful score. 
Purdue 0, Notre Dame 24. 
This one could still be used today, except it fails to mention anything about rain, which seems to have become a tradition in contests against the Boilermakers. Another example of early light-song candidates incluges a verse sung to the tune of the New Year's favorite, "Auld Lang Syne:" 
Let music fill thy hallowed halls, 
And echo ring thy name, 
We'll sing a song of Jubilee, 
For dear old Notre Dame! 
Old Notre Dame will win over all . .. Enter the Reverend Michael Shea and his brother, John. The former graduat­
ed from Notre Dame in 1905 and soon came back to teach Latin and Greek. The latter was not just a part of the class of 1906, but he was also the presi­dent. Together they wrote the "Notre Dame Victory March" in 1908, with Mike arranging the music and John penning the words. The composition became, as the Kasey Kasems of the day might have said, an instant hit. However, the band was only allowed to play it during halftime and at the end of the football games when it was first introduced. or course, that is not the case today as we hear it after touch­downs, when the teams emerge from the loeker room, and during timeouts, as well as at other inspiring moments throughout the games. 
While her loyal sons are marching . .. 
Thanks to the failure of the earlier chants in holding a place in Notre Dame lore, we are left with one of the most recognized college fight songs in the country. Soon the "Victory March" will be 90 years old, but it will still be sung with pride and passion as when it first led the Fighting Irish Onward to Victory! 
----·---------------~~--------~ ---~~~ ~.-..-.......::----------..,.----.. 
page 12 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, March I, 1995 


The Admiral steers Spurs to sixth straight win, 100-83 
Associated Press Dennis Rodman had 21 rebounds despite resting during the fourth quar­SAN ANTONIO ter along with most of the rest ol San 
David Robinson's 18 points helped Antonio's starters. the San Antonio Sptin!close out an 11-Rodman has 20 or more rebounds in 2 month with their siXth straight win~ 12 of San Antonio's l~t18 games and a 100-83 decision over the Cleveland has averaged 22.3 rebounds in his last Cavaliers on Tuesday night. seven. g~;~s. y•;<i .................... 
.. ,).~·===·=· .. ·:j,:=(: . . >?nfHn:.:· T
The Spurs are the ho.t~est team in 
the NBA since Dennis Rodman s~n Antonio finished· the thjrd quar­returned from the suspended list on ter with aJ6~a.run punctuated byDec. 10, winning 30 of37 games. Elliott's jumper at the buzZei:, extend­
Chuck Person scored 17 points and ing the lead to 7 4·58 lead; 
Sean Elliott added 14 for the balanced A 3,point shot and dunk by Elliott in Spurs scoring attack. which feature.d the final 39 seconds of the frrst half five players in double figures. closed an 8·1 run, boosting San Terrell Brandon scored 17 points Antonio to a 45-35 lead at the break. and John Williams added for 14 the Vinny Del Negro led San Antonio Cavaliers, who lost for the second time with 10 frrst·half points as San Antonio in two nights after winning five of their limited the Cavs to 26-percent shooting 
previous six games. from the field in the second quarter. 
Shaq returns with vengeance 
By FRED GOODALL Conference champions, improving the Associated Press best record in the East to 43-13. The Magic are 28-1 at home and increased ORLANDO. Fla. their lead over the Knicks to seven 
Shaquille O'Neal, returning from a games in the Atlantic Division. one-game suspension, scored 41 points Patrick Ewing led New York with 32 and grabbed 10 rebounds Tuesday points and 15 rebounds. John Starks night, leading the Orlando Magic to a added 19 for the Knicks, but was shut 118-106 victory over the New York out in the fourth quarter. Knicks. Orlando's 40 points in the opening 
O'Neal. the NBA's leading scorer, sat period were the most in a quarter this out Sunday's 105-103 victory over season against the Knicks, who had Chicago after being suspended for one allowed only 91.8 points per game in game for an altercation with Boston's compiling a 23-6 record after a 12-12 Eric Montross. In four games against start. New York this season, he's scored 41 O'Neal has been virtually unstoppable three times and 38 in the other. in each of the meetings between the 
Horace Grant also returned for teams. He entered the game averaging Orlando after missing two games 40 against the Knicks and had his way because of back spasms. He had 12 again with 14 in the opening quarter points and 14 rebounds, while Dennis and 11 more in the second. Scott scored 26 in his first start in place The Magic cooled from the field after of the injured Donald Royal (sprained shooting 57 percent to lead 40-33 after ankle). one period, though. After making seven 
Orlando won for the third time in four of his first eight shots, O'Neal was only meetings with the defending Eastern 4-for-11 in the second quarter. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Norre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 


Classifieds 
If anyone found a Red and Green  SUMMER JOBS  86 Chevy Nova, red, auto. air.  JUMPSTART FOR LENT  I'M OUITA HERE!!  
NOTICES  Power Ranger figure at the Morris Inn Bus Shelter on 2118/95 around  ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS  many new parts, looks & runs great. $3500 or best offer, 272-9342  The Spirituality series continues. Don't miss out! Part of developing  With all my free time. I think I'm  
1.15 pm, please call273-5906. My  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  a personal spirituality is growing  going to write the "Gipper" column  
Ramada Inn of Elkhart has rooms  B·yr old son is heartbroken.  NEAR LAKE PLACID  Mac Powerbook 145, 1 year old,  into prayer with Scripture. You'll  from now on.  
for Graduation weekend. Minimum  CALL 1-800-786-8373  40mb, claris, word, & more.  be glad you came! Thursday,  
stay of two nights required. $125  $1 , 1 00/BO wade x3064  March 2, 7-8:30 pm, Stanford·  But I guess I don't have enough  
advance deposit per room.  Lost on 2117 at Senior Bar  SUMMER JOBS-COUNSELORS &  Keenan chapel.  experience to do that, 'cuz me just  
Conveniently located at 80/90 Toll  Valentine Party • my camera was  STAFF BOYS SPORTS  IBM386·25mhz,80Mb Hd,4 MB  an idiot marketing major. Some  
Road. 15 miles from Campus. Send  taken by mistake. I may have yours.  CAMP/MASS. TOP SALARY  RAM,DOS 6.1,WIN  Feather, Heather or Tracy ???  day, if I take enough classes, I may  
request by mail to 3011 Belvedere  Mine is a 35mm Canon Sure Shot.  RM/BD/LAUNDRY, TRAVEL  3.1 ,3.5"&5.25",Modem,soft­ Who is she????  have the necessary experience to  
Rd, Elkhart, IN 46514 or fax to 219­ Call Maria 284-5232.  ALLOWANCE. MUST HAVE SKILL  ware.$600 or best. Call Sean x0519  One of the Kings.  work for our friends down the hall.  
262·1590.  IN ONE OF THE FOLLOWING  or x3790.  
LOST: BLUE NAUTICA JACKET  ACTIVITIES: Archery, Baseball,  Thanks all for making this a great  
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ SPRING BREAK MONEY  AT CORBY'S LAST THURSDAY IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL.  Basketball, Drums, Football, Golf, Guitar, Ice Hockey, Lacrosse,  TICKETS  Maria, Maria ... No more roses and chocolate from ltalia???  year and for putting up with me and my matrix management discus·  
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND  REWARD. MIKE x4332  Lifeguard, Nature, Nurses,  sions.  
MON.·FRI. 11 :30-12:30  Photography, Piano, Pool,  ROUNDTRIP TICKET TO DEN­ LOSE WEIGHT FOR SUMMER -I  
NEXT TO INFO. DESK IN LaFORT.  Rocketry, Rollerblading, Ropes,  VER: Mar 11 -Mar 19, $230 OBO,  lost over 20 lbs., went from a size 9  you're welcome. chief!  
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Somebody accidentally picked  Sailing, Scuba. Secretary, Soccer.  Chris X3054  to a 3 in 8 weeks, without  
up the wrong black sportcoat at  Tennis, Track, Video, Waterski,  drugs/diets/exercise! All-natural  Yo honeybuns, get well soon!!  
..****EXPRESS YOURSELF*****  the Grace/Fianner SYR last Fri.  Windsurfing, Weights, Wood,  LED ZEP TIX 4 SALE  product-guaranteed results! Kelly  Jacko  
If you are going to the TRACY  My ID is in the inside pocket  Yearbook. Call or write: Camp  Plant/Page Chicago 4/28  (800)209·2150.  
CHAPMAN show on March 2 and  please return to Calvin Nelson  Winadu, 2255 Glades Rd., Suite  x2264  Yo honeybuns, get well soon!!  
would like to share some thoughts  214 Grace 4-1598  406E, Boca Raton, FL 33431,  2 LUSTY BABES  Jacko  
with her, check out the LaFortune  (800)494-6238 Recruiter will be on  • REM Ticket for Sale •  need ride to Key West. Call Kim  
Info Desk. There, a box and some  !!!!!!!!!!!!LOST WATCH !I!!!!!!!!!I! !II!  campus DATE: 3/6 TIME: 10:00am­ Kansas City -May 27  x4528 or Colleen 287-7353 and  To whomever keeps "Hailing the  
3x5 cards have been placed for  I lost my watch in O'shag on 2-16.  4:00pm PLACE: Dooley Room ­ Best Offer-Christian x1181  give your best offer.  SilverWolf ". I've got plenty of  
fans to write anything they want  It has a wide black band with a  Lafortune. STOP BY·No appoint­ SilverWolf in my room.  
Tracy Chapman to read. Whether it  white face. The numbers on the  ment needed.  TOM PETTY TICKETS • call Mike  Need a job for next year???  Call Rain King @ 3028  
be social, political, artistic, or per­ face are written in Cherokee. The  at 234·5881,1eave message if not  Student Activities is now accepting  
sonal, she wants to know what  designer's name is on the face ­ TENNIS JOBS-SUMMER BOYS  there  applications for 95-96 for:  Hey Bucket girl,  
Notre Dame is thinking. Certain  CAMP-NORTHEAST-LOOKING  LaFortune Building Managers  Ready for another wild weekend  
entries will be read by Tracy Chapman onstage during her show.  "Chad Smith". If you found this watch, PLEASE consider returning  FOR STAFF WITH GOOD TENNIS BACKGROUND WHO CAN TEACH  PERSONAL  Stepan Center Managers Information Desk Attendants  before you head to my wonderful home in KY? Maybe we should  
TRACY CHAPMAN MARCH 2  it to me. It's very important to me.  CHILDREN TO PLAY TENNIS.  Gorch Games Room  tame it down a little. Then again.  
STEPAN CENTER 8:00P.M.  If you have seen this watch please  GOOD SALARY. ROOM &  000 The Copy Shop 000  Building Set Up Crew  maybe not.  
$12 STUDENTS, $15 GEN PUB  call Nancy, 277·0655. REWARD.  BOARD, TRAVEL ALLOWANCE.  LaFortune Student Center  24 Hr. Lounge Monitors  
*****EXPRESS YOURSELF******  CALL OR WRITE: CAMP WINADU,  WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE.  Ballroom Monitors  Hey you Puerto Rican porn guru,  
2255 GLADES RD., SUITE 406E.  & WEEKENDS FOR YOUR  Irish Express Workers  was that really Buck Adams? Is he  
BLADE RUNNER  LOST: A LONG BLACK  BOCA RATON, FL 33431 800-494­ CONVENIENCE!! I  Office Assistants  the one with the appendix scar.  
Thursday 8/1030 $1  WOMAN'S PERRY ELLIS COAT  6238. RECRUITER WILL BE ON  Phone 631-COPY  Applications in Student Activities.  When is the floating black girl com­ 
Lafortune's Montgomery Theatre  AT SR. BAR ON FRI. FEB. 10  CAMPUS 316-DOOLEY ROOM·  315 LaFortune.Deadline March 10.  ing on?  
Arought to you by SUB  (FISHER-WALSH DANCE)  LAFORTUNE  
PLEASE CALL CINDY AT  WATCH JENNY JONES ON  3 days and counting to  What a profitable weekend -CO's,  
INTERVIEW WITH THE VAMPIRE  273-5399 WITH ANY INFO.­ SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS:  MARCH 1ST-its on at 4:00 on  mugs, cookies. cool girls (well.  
Showing Friday & Saturday  REWARD!!III  Make a difference in the life of a  WGN. See Nate dog on Luther!  * DAWGFEST '95 *  maybe not).  
Cushing Auditorium 8/1030  child I Summer therapy camp for  
$2 Brought to you by SUB  FOUND- handicapped children. Located on  LISTEN TO US!II  look here on Friday for details.  May Peter rest in peace  
Woman's silver ring in O'Shag  shore of Lake Superior near Big  MICHELLE AND KRISTA  
part time help wanted  Ladies' room. Call631-8635 to  Bay, MI. Positions available for  WVFIAM 640  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Praises be sung to Megan McGrath  
filing, answering phones  identify  Counselors, Waterfront, Instructors  FIRDAYS 11:30 TO 1:30  CAN YOU DRAW WELL  who feeds the hungry.  
684-8300  for Nature/Arts & Crafts/Recreation,  WE'RE REALLY COOL  Would you Like to be a part  
FOUND: One umbrella, engraved  Nurses, Therapists, Food Service,  AND SINGLE TOO.  of ANTOSTAL?  Who needs Bengals, we've got  
DO EUROPE  handle outside South Dining Hall.  and Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic,  Colin and Casey.  
....  $229 anytime! •• FREE Brochure••  Call 259-3267 and ask for Umbrella Boy to identify.  responsible, and love children. June 18 through August 13. Salary, room  Moving to L.A. area after gradua­tion. Need female roommate.  If so, come to the SUB office this Friday to audition as a:  Hey H-man, now that you have the  
Also cheap fares worldwide  & board, and experience of lifetime  Call Jill x4757  'Butt-sketch artist'  PE chapel, can we have #4 back.  
AIRHITCH 1-800-326-2009  WANTED  provided. Call or write for applica­tion and information. Bay Cliff  Bevin and Theresa need a ride to  'Posterior pictographer' 'Derriere drawer'  A-(I mean Louise),  
WANT A FREE MASSAGE?  Health Camp, 310 W. Washington,  the Boston area for Spring  (All the same position • yes it pays)  If I remembered anything from this  
Come to the massage workshop in  RUN YOUR OWN BUSINESS,  Suite 300, Marquette, Ml 49855,  Break.Leave 3/10. Will pay for gas  weekend. I would tease you about  
the laFun Ballroom on Wed. 3/1  GAIN VALUABLE EXPERIENCE  (906)228-5770  and provide groovy conversation.  Looking for speed and style.  it, but you know how that goes.  
from 7-10p.m. Massage instruction  WHILE BUILDING YOUR  Call X2533 and ask for Shaggy.  March 3, 3-5pm, 2nd floor LaFort.  The cup game is a definate for  
by Pennie Christie of Massage  RESUME. EARN UP TO $10,000  WANTED: 1985-88 CHEVY BLAZ­ CALL TRIXIE @4-4877 for info.  tomorrow at dinner.  
Therapy Works, free food, and free  (25 JOBS) HIGH DEMAND PROD­ ER OR GMC JIMMY. GOOD CON­ Need ride to Eau Claire, WI for  
massages!!!!  UCT, IRRIGATION SALES AND  DITION. 272-9402.  Spring Break. Off 1-94 to Mlps./St.  $Thisis paidThisispaidThisis paid$  Jocko, did you have a partner in  
BROUGHT TO YOU BY SUB  INSTALLATION. BE A LEADER:  Paul. Will help pay/drive. Beth  gym today.  
$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS$$  VEHICLE REQUIRED CALL STU­DENT SPRINKLERS AT 1·800­ FOR RENT  X2479  Now I hear she's got a house up in  Hey sloppy girl, you just wish you  
A.re you going to read those things  265-7691  Bev· Thanks, CM  Fairview, and a style she's trying to  had a hat halfway as cool as the  
'!gain? I think not. 2323-2342  MOVE OC! Turtle Creek w/3 fern  maintain  UNC masterpiece you tried to pilfer.  
Pandora's Bks NO Ave & Howard  180/mo summer/95-96: 273-6437  Got any extra lap space?  Better luck next time.  
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­ Lusty Babe seeks ride to New  
AUDITIONS FOR SENIORS!!!!  Earn up to $2,000+/month working  HOMES FOR RENT  Orleans over spring break. Please,  Going 2 or thru Iowa 4 break? I  
Senior One-Acts: 4 one·act plays  on Cruise Ships of Land-Tour com­ NEAR CAMPUS  please, please!  need a ride! Jim x4333  
Wed. March 1, 8:30pm-10  panies. World travel (Hawaii.  232-2595  Call Pete @ 3584  K T !I Don't think I forgot about  
Thurs. March 2, 9:30pm -11  Mexico. the Caribbean. etc.).  Are you or is a friend dealing with  you! Enjoy the pictures, here kitty,  
Foster Rm. in LaFortune, 3rd floor  Seasonal and full-time employment  ·LIVE IN A GOOD NEIGHBOR·  Looking for a ride to Louisiana over  the issues that surround  kitty!!!!  
No experience necessary I !I  available. No experience neces­ HOOD FURNISHED HOMES  spring break. Will pay big bucks  HOMOSEXUALITY?  
AUDITIONS FOR SENIORS!!!!  sary. For more information call1­ NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT  and help with gas/driving  Do you want a safe place to talk?  
ILOST & FOUND I  206·634-0468 ext. C55843 Macri's Deli on the East Race  SCHOOL YEAR IDEAL FOR 3-8 STUDENTS 2773097  Matt X3584 (can even give you a place to stay if you need it)  Do you want to meet people who care? And People who have shared some of your sameyour  Hey french fry and bickel-· we'll have to do it again soon, the other half of the twin towers  
Lost • Men's thin dark brown leather  now hiring for all positions. It's a great place to work, flexible hours  FOR SALE  NEEDED-Ride to and from  experiences? There will be a CONFIDENTIAL SUPPORT  eve ... you did WHAT???  
gloves in Library on 1st or 2nd floor  and great pay.  Pensacola,FL or anywhere close for  MEETING Thursday at 7:30.Piease  (ala karen)  
on Mon. 2120. Call O'Shag at 4­ Apply within 214 North Niles Ave.  For sale: 1 TOM PETTY TICKET  Spring Break. Will help with costs.  call the Q-line 287-6665 for more  
0975  or call 280-4824.  Call Steve @ 1796  Call MAIT x3895.  information.  here you go, becca  


, 

Wednesday, March 1, 1995 
The Observer • SPORTS page 13 



J.P. & Dennis 
NEWFcXUS 

Want You 
to apply for the following positions in Student Government .----,~-.~ 

• :oLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Kittles connects for career high 44 as Villanova roars past Boston College, 92-68 
By WAYNE WOOLLEY 
Assodated Press 
VILLANOVA, Pa. 

Kerry Kittles scored a career­high 44 points to tie a 29-year­old Villanova scoring mark and lnad the 11th-ranked Wildcats to a 92-68 win over Boston 
Villanova's Kerry Kittles knocked down 44 points last night as his Wildcats cruised to an easy 92-68 win over the Eagles of B.C. 
College on Tuesday night. Kittles hit a 3-pointer with 
5:03 left in the game to give surging Villanova (22-6, 14-3 Big East) a 79-53 lead. He left the game about a minute later to a tremendous ovation. 
The junior guard hit the 37­point mark on a 3-pointer with 10:44 left for a 73-43 lead. 
That matched his previous career-high, set in a 96-73 win over then-No. 1 Connecticut 10 days ago. 
Kittles tied the school record for points set by Bill Melchionni against St. Bonaventure on Feb. 16, 1966. 
Big East leading scorer Danya Abrams led Boston College (8­17, 2-15) with 19 points, while freshman point guard Duane Woodward added 16. 
Boston College opened the second half with a 10-5 run to cut Villanova's lead to 53-34 on a layup by Keenan Jourdan with 16:05 to play. But the Eagles were never able to get closer than 20 points the rest of the way. 
Villanova, which has won 14 of 15, opened the game with a 27-6 run, with Kittles scoring 17 points in that stretch. He finished the first twenty min­utes of play with 29 points on 11-for-15 shooting. 
Boston College was unable to break double figures until Paul Grant made it 34-11 with two free throws with 6:06 left in the first half. 
Villanova opened its biggest lead of the half. 40-11, when Zeffy Penn hit a jumper with 
3:56 to play. 
As has been a season-long problem, Boston College was a woeful 8-for-23 (34.8 percent) from the field in the first half and turned the ball over 14 times as Villanova took a 48-24 halftime lead. 
Recycle The Observer 
Gophers' hopes alive 
MINNEAPOLIS 

Voshon Lenard scored 22 points and Jayson Walton added 19 points and 14 rebounds as Minnesota held off Wisconsin 78-70 Tuesday night in Big Ten basketball to keep its NCAA tourna­ment hopes alive. 
Minnesota, 18·8 and 9-5 in conference play, had dropped back-to-hack games against Jllinols and lowly Ohio State last week to put itself on the NCAA playoff bubble. 
But the Gophers outscored the Badgers 24·11 at the start of the second half to break open a 41-40 game before 14,548 fans at Williams Arena, the largest crowd of the season. 
Wisconsin (12·12 and 6-9) led by as many as eight points in the first half and pulled to within four points late in the game. but lost Its fourth straight. 
Hashard Griffith led all scorers with 25 points and 11 rebounds for Wisconsin and Michael Finley had 20 for the Badgers. 
Finley and Griffith scored Wisconsin's first 21 points before Andy Kilbride hit a 3­pointer at 10:35 of the first half to give the Badgers a 24-16 
Griffith hit five of his first six shots, but then didn't convert a field goal for near­ly 18 minutes. Finley was only three of 11 from the field in the first half, but all three were 3-pointers. 
~ 
~ 
COMMUNITY AcnoN 
All applications are available in the Student Government Office, 2nd floor LaFortune, and are due by·s:OO March 2. 
Executive
.Executive 

CoordinatorCoordinator 

Intellectual Life 
Student Life 
Department Campus 
Department 
AcademicSocial Commissioner

Commissioner Commissioner Commissioner 
for Campus for Campus 
Improvements 
Comnwnicatioru ·CommiSSioner 
Commissioner for Board of
for Social 
TrusteesConcerns 

Reports Commissioner 
Bookfair

for Women's Commissioner
Concerns Commissioner Guidefor Minority CommissionerConcerns 


Student Body Secretary 


.Executive Coordinator 

Executive
.Executive 

Coordinator of for Public 
Coordinator 
Special

for the Judicial 
Projects

Board
Relations 

Elections
Publicity 

Committee
Director 

Chair 
Legal Advisor 
we·re
• looking 


• 
••• for a few
•

••··good men and 
•··women to help us
•

• • • make Student
•

••• Government become 
• • • "The Voice of N.D." 
•

••• BE A PART OF THE ACTION
• 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, March 1, 1995 
• COlLEGE BASKETBALl 





The Chill heats up as Dunkin' Duncan's Deacons down Heels 
--~ 
place in the league with the Tar Heels (21-4, 11-4) and Virginia (11-4 ACC). It also leaves Maryland alone atop the ACC with two games remaining, and sets up the possibility of a four­way tie for first place at the end of the regular season. 
The Demon Deacons have won six straight and nine of their last 10 in compiling its best record after 25 games since 1981. The league record is their best since 1963. 
North Carolina, which got 26 points from Jerry Stackhouse, got virtually no production from Wallace, who had just four points -all on free throws ­as Wake Forest collapsed around the sophomore center each time he touched the ball. Wallace, shooting 66.9 percent going into the game, missed the three shots he tried. 
The Demon Deacons stretched their lead at the start of the second half to 44-33 on Jerry Braswell's jumper in the lane with 17:04left. 
Three times, North Carolina cut the gap to five, but the 



otre 
ame 

Demon Deacons answered each time with rally-breaking bas­kets. 
After getting to 51-46 after Dante Calabria hit his second 3­pointer of the half with 13 min­utes left, the Demon Deacons went on a 9-2 run split between two baskets by Duncan and five points by Childress. 
Then, Wake Forest ran into a problem which has dogged it all season long. After gaining that 60-48 lead with 9:57 to go, the Demon Deacons missed their next nine shots over five min­utes, giving the Tar Heels their opening. 
North Carolina would get the deficit down to three twice, the last at 70-67 on Donald Williams' runner down the lane with 2:06 left. 
Duncan answered it with a follow shot and Childress added two free throws with 42 sec­onds to go. 
Williams hit a 3-pointer with 29 seconds left, but Wake Forest got three free throws and Scooter Banks' alley-oop dunk to seal it. 

$25.00 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT THE 
(?MPUS

LAFORTUNE INFO DESK. APPLICATIONS ARE 
MINISTRY 

DUE IN 315 LAFORTUNE BY 5:00P.M. ON 

ncounter 
A WEEKEND RETREAT EXPERIENCE GUIDED BY STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF 
An opportunity, In tlllogue wllh att.ra, ID deepen your underatandlnl of yourMif. your nfuea, your Nlalianehlp wllh Clvtat, your • ..,.,._..,. o1 Chrillll., community Md ..W.. 
MARCH 31 -APRIL 2, 1995 
February 27-March 3 
March 3-4:00 p.m. 
Campus Ministry Office 103 Hesburgh Library 
631-7800 
THE GREAT SIDEREAL MOVEMENT SAYS YOU ARE 21--­
HAPPY TO THE "BIG STRAIGHT OUTTA 'WAKA" 
FROM THE 
KAZLAUSKAS KlAN 

GET INVOlVED! BE PART OF PlANNING 

VOl\J ~ »~W~ 
APPLY FOR A POSITION ON THE 

1996JPW 
EXECUTIVE COMMitTEE! 
DON'T MISS OUT! 
By TOM FOREMAN Jr. 
Associated Press 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. 
Randolph Childress attacked from the outside and Tim Duncan took over in the middle as No. 9 Wake Forest held on late in the second half and beat 
No.· 2 North Carolina 79­70 Tuesday night. 
Duncan thoroughly outplayed N o r t h Carolina's 

super sopho-Odom m o r e Rasheed Wallace, scoring 25 points and grabbing 12 rebounds. Childress had four 3­pointers and finished 8-for-10 from the field with 26 points. 
More importantly, the Demon Deacons put themselves in posi­tion to be in first place in the Atlantic Coast Conference at the end of a season for the first time in 33 years. 
Wake Forest (20-5, 11-4 ACC) moved into a tie for second 
RETREAT 
DATES: 
FORMS AVAILABLE: 
SIGN UP DEADLINE: 
CONTACT: 
COST: 



--~------~--------------------------~­Wednesday, March 1, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page IS 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Clutch Cavaliers prevail, 63-62 UMass dominates the 
Ry JOE MACENKA four seconds remaining, and edge in the series. 
inside, romp over Rhody
Associated Press the Hokies were unable to Senior forward Jason 

HICHMOND, Va. 

Harold Deane had one thought after missing eight of his first 10 shots Tuesday night: Thn 11th could be the charm. 
''I'm the type of person who's going to go down swinging," Deane said after he made up for his lowest offensive output in 12 games by hitting a runner in the lane with 17 seconds left, giving No. 13 Virginia a 63-62 victory over Virginia Tech. 
After Deane's basket, Virginia Tnch brought the ball down, called a timeout and set up Shawn Smith for a final shot. llis 13-footer in the lane bounced high off the rim with 
411iedSignal 
AEROSPACE 

SECURITY 
Part time positions open on the afternoon and midnight shifts for Security Officers in Soufh Bend location. 
Will train and prouide uniforms. 
Starting pay at $6.50 per hour. 
Duties will consist of fire watch tours in an industrial/office compleH and access control at a uehicle/pedestrian gate. 
Contact Don Muncy at RlliedSignal Aerospace, 231-2528. 
EOEIM/F 

in traditi ./..acknowleqg.....·· 
....1,;.1.,.......... 
/ 
For ~he montll' H~st~ry Mo!Jtb, 

. · turing a/collectronJ:ofl:HW:t1.rK: contributidns of 
..: : 
support~g cast,. 
shaping the future / /
~< .r 

regain possession before time expired. 
Deane, Virginia's leading scorer at 16.4 points per game, finished with 10 points as the Cavaliers (20-7) won for the eighth time in nine games. 
"I was fortunate I had a chance to make up for all those misses," said Deane, whose winning basket was his first field goal since there was 7:14 left in the first half. "I still felt I could make something happen at the end." 
Virginia's Junior Burrough had 22 points and nine rebounds as the Cavaliers defeated Virginia Tech (19-9) for the 17th time in 21 games. The Cavaliers have a 66-43 
· ,~ a. ··gt:eatet· respect and ·~:jV.:!~!(~d-H\>.t¥..l, , haye··. al\vays.'fi.lled. 
Williford, who almost single­handedly rallied Virginia from a 58-51 deficit, finished with a season-high 18 points and six rebounds. 
"My father told me a long tilp.e ago sometimes it's better to be lucky than to be good," Virginia coach Jeff Jones said. "We weren't·very good today, but some breaks went our way." 
Smith led the Hokies with 14 points. Ace Custis, Virginia Tech's leading scorer and rebounder, was double-teamed most of the night and wound up with 12 points and eight rebounds. 
The Hokies also got 11 points and nine rebounds from Travis Jackson and 10 points from Damon Watlington. 
"It's hard to describe what that moment would have meant to us," Virginia Tech coach Bill Foster said of Smith's potential winning basket. 
Virginia Tech was trying to enhance its chances for an NCAA tournament bid and to secure its first 20-victory sea­son since the Dell Curry-led Hokies of 1985-86. 
"These kids have bounced back pretty well," Foster said. "That's never going to be more important than it will be now." 
Deane also had eight assists and five turnovers in what was another typical close game between these teams. • 
.... '• ···... 
"-:... 
'· 

'·\,women' s··...., ·.,··will be 
'•, 

By JIMMY GOLEN 
Associated Press 
AMHERST, Mass. 

Marcus Camby scored 21 points and Lou Roe grabbed his 1,000th career rebound Tuesday night as No. 8 Massachusetts clinched its fourth consecutive Atlantic 10 title with an 86-71 victory over Rhode Island. 
Roe came into the game needing two rebounds to JOlll Julius Erving as the 
Roe 
o n l y Minutemen to surpass 1,000 in a career. Erving had 1,049 in just two seasons from 1969-71 -a pace of more than 20 per game. 
Roe totaled nine boards and had 13 points for the Minutemen (22-4, 12-3 Atlantic 10). 
They will finish their regular season Friday with the second half of their suspended game against Rutgers before taking the No. 1 seed into the confer­ence tournament. 
Freshman Tyson Wheeler scored a career-high 33 points for Rhode Island (7-19, 2-14), which had already assured itself of last place in the Atlantic 10. 
UMass had gone 30 years
without an NCAA tournament berth and hadn't won a confer­ence title since 1976 until Roe 


Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
1994-95 JOHN M. DUGGAN SERIES 
AN IRISH CELEBRATION WITH 
THURSDAY, MARCH 2 7:30P.M. O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
TICKETS $8* ALL SEATS RESERVED 
Discounts available for senior citizens, groups, SMC-ND community and students. Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, located in O'Laughlln, 9-5 Mon.-Fri. Discover, Visa. MasterCard at 219/284-4626. 



1'\0RfftU CfnTfR 

fOR Tttf ctl RTS 

and the rest of this year's seniors came to Amherst. 
Four years later, they have four regular-season titles, three Atlantic 10 tournament cham­pionships and two NCAA tour­nament banners hanging from the rafters at the brand-new Mullins Center. 
So before the game, the team honored the seniors who helped turn the program around. 
Coach John Calipari even took the microphone before the ceremony to note the contribu­tions of Mike Williams, whom he kicked off the team earlier this month for repeated rules violations. 
Jeff Meyer made his second start ever and Jason Germain made the first of his career. Roe and point guard Derek Kellogg, the team's other seniors, started as usual. 
That wasn't the end of Calipari's playing-time generos­ity, though. Every member of the Minutemen played as they opened a 10-2 lead and kept up a torrid pace from there. It was 17-5, 23-7 and 31-9 before Rhode Island started to keep up. 
Wheeler had 13 of the Rams' 20 first-half points as they shot just 22 percent before halftime. 
With the Minutemen leading 60-37 midway through the sec­ond half, Camby hit 10 of their next 13 points to open a 72-43 lead. Rhode Island closed the gap against UMass' second­and third-stringers. 
-~ ~-~~------. 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, March 1, 1995 


UCLA looking to hold onto top spot 
Hogs hold off Gators 
By JAMES MARTINEZ Associated Press 

GAINESVILLE, Fla. 
Corliss Williamson scored 20 points to lead a balanced Arkansas attack that included 1 0 3-pointers and the seventh­
r a n k e d Razor backs beat Florida 9 4 -8 5 Tuesday night. 
Arkansas (24-5, 11-4 Southeastern 


Conference) Williamson hit eight 3­pointers in the first half and led by 12 at halftime. 
When the Gators cut the lead in half midway through the sec­ond half. the Razorbacks answered with a 14-0 run high­lighted by two 3-pointers by reserve Davor Rimae that gave them an 80-59 lead. 
Florida (14-11, 7-8) managed to cut Arkansas' lead to 86-78 with less than two minutes left on a steal and layup by Jason Anderson, but the defending national champions held off the run on two free throws by Scotty Thurman and a transi­tion layup from Rimae. 
Clint McDaniel scored 17 points, Rimae 13 and Thurman 12 for the Razorbacks, whose bench posted 62 points. 
Florida was led by Dan Cross with 29 points and Dametri Hill had 16. 

The Gators, a Final Four team last year with fading hopes for returning to the NCAA tournament, turned the ball over 18 times and shot 37 percent from the field in the second half. 
Both teams started fast, but Arkansas took the lead for good on a 12-2 run midway through the first half that began with consecutive 3-pointers from McDaniel and Darnell Robinson. Alex Dillard nailed another 3-pointer during a 7-2 run at the end of the half to put the Razor backs ahead 57-45 at halftime. 
By BETH HARRIS 

Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 

UCLA is No. 1 in the nation, owns a nine-game winning streak and is playing its best basketball of the season. Even that may not be enough to sat­isfy this title-starved city. 
No one realizes it more than much-maligned Bruins coach Jim Harrick, whose annual flogging in the media usually coincides with the start of the NCAA tournament. 
UCLA's postseason record since 1990 includes first-round losses in 1991 and 1994 with a second-round overtime defeat sandwiched in between. 
"I get sick of people saying you come out of the gate and you fade," Harrick said Tuesday. "That's a bunch of malarkey." 

But it's the foremost thought of many fans and alumni · spoiled by John Wooden's 10 
NCAA championships. 
Harrick recalled a radio show appearance he made during which a caller described UCLA's recent NCAA tourna­ment performances as failures. 
"I don't like that. That's not me. I'm not into that." Harrick said. "Even though we lost to Tulsa last year, we were 21-7, tied for second in the confer­ence, and people deemed us being a failure." 
Harrick is answering the doubters earlier than ever because the Bruins haven't 

been No. 1 this late in the sea­son since Feb. 19, 1979. 
UCLA (21-2) is getting much of the attention right now in Los Angeles, where pro basket­ball fans ignore the last-place Clippers and the Lakers rarely sell out, the Kings hockey team is struggling and the baseball season remains in disarray. 
Talk centers around just how far this team can go, with the critics eager to point out last season's first-round loss to Tulsa. 
The Pac-10 Conference doesn't have a tournament, which gives fans more time to debate UCLA's chances in the NCAA tournament. 
"I'm really excited about this whole thing," said Gene Kim, a sophomore from Huntington Beach who watched the Bruins stretch before practice at Pauley Pavilion. 
Kim doesn't expect another first-round disaster, but he knows who will take the blame if the team exits early. 
"People are going to go after Harrick again. Poor guy," he said. "He's not John Wooden, but he's doing a good job." 
Actually, Harrick is better than Wooden was at this stage. Harrick's record of 137-53 after six seasons is the best in school history. Wooden was 118-51 in his first six years. 
Not everyone is convinced, however. 
Randy Liu, a sophomore from Cerritos, Calif., believes the criticism of Harrick is justified. 
The Institute of European Studies The Institute of Asian Studies International Study Programs 
• GREEDY JERKS 

New Opportunities for Notre Dame Students

200 days and counting for strike 
to Study Abroad for a Year, Semester or Summer 
By ROB GLOSTER 
Associated Press 

SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. 
Acting commissioner Bud Selig called it "a very candid discussion of the· core issues." Union head Donald Fehr said "the tone is civil, and hopefully it will lead somewhere." 
But the bottom line after the resumption of baseball negotia­tions Monday, the 200th day of the strike, was that no specific solutions were discussed and the sides remained far apart. 
"Clearly, we still have a lot of work to do. The gulf between us is wide," Fehr said after four hours of discussions. "But at least we're talking again. The tone is quite civil. I expect the discussions to continue tomor­row and throughout the week." 
Negotiations began today at about 1 p.m. EST. 
There were also several developments away from the bargaining table on Monday. Union officials began a series of meetings with minor leaguers, two teams canceled exhibition games with the Baltimore Orioles and the National Labor Relations Board continued its investigation of unfair labor practice charges filed by the union against owners. 
With the start of the exhibi­
tion season -and the era of 
mplacement players -just two 
days away, representatives of 
the owners and players met 
specifics such as the luxury tax the first devoted to the issues 
One Semester Business Programs in
and other contentious issues. since President Clinton sum­"Both sides have to bend," moned both sides to the White 
France, Germany, Vienna, London and Milan said Boston Red Sox chief exec­House on Feb. 7, only to see his utive officer John Harrington, efforts collapse without a deal. 
General Programs in these and other locations one of the six management A two-day session between 
in Asia, Australia and Europe 
negotiators. "At this stage of a Fehr and Selig last week in work stoppage, both parties are Milwaukee Jed to Monday's 
Information Meeting with Dr. Claudia Kselman, going to have to." resumption of talks. 
Assistant Director, International Study Programs 
Fehr led a group of five nego­_ "This is not going to be just a iators, including players Jay quick process," Selig said 
Wednesday, March 1, 1995
Bell, Terry Steinbach and Paul Monday, "so there's no sense to Molitor. have too many emotional ups 
4:30p.m.
The bargaining session was and downs." 
125 DeBartolo 
Applications are now being accepted for 





Nanaaer Posli-lions 
at 

Alu111nli Senlior Club 
for the 1995-96 academic school year. 
\1 4 You may pick up applications at the 
Monday at the golf club on the ~ ~ r>xclusive Gainey Ranch. They talked mostly about 
~CLU~Office ofStudent Activities, 315 LaFortune. 1heir philosophies and goals. They dealt with the framework for an agreement, not about 
~lVI 0 Deadline March I st 1995 
--~-­

------~-------r--------------------------------------­

Other tights to watch: 
Greg Marks vs Ben Decio (l:J5): Marks is a heavy favorite at the low weight but whispers among Bout participants say Dneio has the talent to pull the upset. Both dominated their quarterfinal bouts and are in excellent condition. Figure on these two boxers exchanging blows to the final bell. 
Muke Mulderrig vs Chad Harrison (185): Mulderrig showed savy in his quarterfinal win over Tom Rabertazza but faces hard-hitting Chad Harrison, who ended his first light with Ryan Clark 45 sec­onds into the second round. 
Brad Parker vs Dan Adams (160): Parker barely made it 

Chris Duncan Bet you had an unclean 19! 
Thursday, March 2 • 7-8:30 pm Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
out of the quarterfinals against first-year fighter Brad Joseph. Adams, in his second Bouts, advanced after Brendan Heatherman withdrew for per­sonal reasons. Adams has to be thinking upset after what he saw from Parker in the opening round. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
WRESTLING -Attention ND wrestlers. Interested in reviving wrestling at the University of Notre Dame? A group of students is start­ing a wrestling club on cam­pus. If interested in the club, call Marcus or Andrew at 4-2230 and you will be sent details. 
BALLET-There is still space available in RecSports Ballet. Classes meet Thursday from 7:30-8:30, and Saturday 1:30-3:30. The cost is $35, and you must register at RecSports. Any questions, call 
RecSports at 1-6100. 
"Theology 100 Is over. I have this Bible sitting on my shelf. There must be some way to put It to use after all that study. After all, it is Lent." 
Come participate in a form of prayer that will bring the Bible alive in ways you may not have thought of before. Appreciate the Sunday readings in a different light. 
Presenter: Regina Col/, C.S.j., Department of Theology 

Each session will include: An experience of prayer Presentation by speaker or panel Question and answer period • Refreshments 


(Z\MPUSMINISTRY

P A R T 2 OF A 3 -P A R T S E R I E S 
STUDENTS ARE WELCOME TO ATTEND ALL THREE SESSIONS OR AS MANY OF THE THREE AS THEY CAN. 
~ ~­
-~-­
.... 
page 17 


Joe plays waiting game 

By DOUG TUCKER Assodarcd Press 
KANSAS CITY. Mo. 

While Joe Montana vaca­tioned in Mexico, the Kansas City Chiefs came to the · defense of their star quarter­back Tuesday, saying he will not be pushed into any deci­sions regarding retirement. 
"I talked to Joe 2 1/2 hours ago," general manager Carl Peterson said. "He will make that decision on his own. The media won't make it for him. I won't make it for him. He might have already made it at this particular point. But he will do his own thing. Maybe that's what makes him so spe­cial and unique." 
Safety David Whitmore also said he was "misquoted or misunderstood" when he recently told a television interviewer Montana is "probably done." 
However, there was no direct word from Montana 
himself. the subject of numer­
ous reports saying the four-time Super Bowl winner would not return for a 17th season. 
Montana has one year left on his three-year contract with the Chiefs. who maintain they are planning on having him one more year. · 
Whitmore, who came from San Francisco in the Montana trade in 1993. told WIBW-TV in Topeka, Kan., on Monday, "He's probably done, that's all I can say. I have to be careful what I say. I talked to him last night. There's a lot of things he's real unhappy about with the organization and things of that nature." 
But at a news conference Tuesday at Arrowhead Stadium, Whitmore said he was misled by the interviewer and did not mean to say he had spoken with Montana the night before. 
''When I talked to the guy before the interview, he gave me the impression Joe had already retired," Whitmore said. 
Packers grant release to shelved Sterling Sharpe 
Associated Press 
GREEN BAY, Wis. 

Sterling Sharpe, the star receiver recovering from neck surgery, was released Tuesday by the Green Bay Packers. 
The move occurred a day after Sharpe's agent demanded the Packers release the All-Pro or increase their salary offer for 1995. 
The Packers offered Sharpe $200,000 while he sits out next season. 
His contract calls for $3.2 million as part of a six-year deal he signed last season. 
"We regret that the Packers' association with Sterling Sharpe has come to an end," Packers general manager Ron Wolf said. "This difficult deci­sion comes after gathering the best medical opinion we could get from the foremost special­ists around the country and after exhausting every contrac­tual option available to us." 
Over his seven years with the Packers, Sharpe caught 595 passes for 8,134 yards and 65 touchdowns. 
He suffered momentary paralysis to the arms after col­liding helmet-to-helmet with an Atlanta safety on Dec. 18. He had another nerve-related injury a week later and was pulled from the lineup for Green Bay's two playoff games. 
Sharpe, 29, underwent surgery Feb. 3 and had a two­by-three inch piece of bone from his pelvis transplanted to the back portion of his first and second cervical vertebrae. The bone fragment was held in place by a wire and two screws on each side. 
If the bone graft successfully fuses and is given nine months to a year to heal, there is a 90 percent chance of Sharpe achieving a solid fusion that could let him to play in 1996, said Dr. Craig Brigham, who performed surgery in Charlotte, N.C. 
But Wolf said the severity of the injury "and the fact that research indicates no player who has had that type of surge_ry has returned to the playing field, along with the uncertainty of his future avail­ability, literally left us with no alternative." 
Sharpe's agent, William "Tank" Black, didn't take phone calls Tuesday. He said earlier that Sharpe, who lives in Columbia, S.C., during the offseason, was offered just $200,000 to be sidelined this year. 
In_ THE CUSHWA CENTER
c:::! 
FOR THE STUDY OF ...., I F AMERICAN CATHOLICISM U PRESENTS 
Faith and Justice: The Catholic Church and the Chicano Movement in Houston 
Roberto R. Trevino 
University of Colorado at Colorado Springs 
Thursday, March 2, 1995 4:15PM Hesburgh Library Lounge 
-· 

page 18 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, March 1, 1995 

happy with anything. "We're in a waiting mode.




Jock 

with two weeks to practice," continued from page 20 noted MacLeod. "I don't know

Bowen lqoks to go out in style 
if we're a bubble team -we 
game. We aren't going on would have liked to roll in there ByKCGOYER Collegiate Conference next conference in rebounding with Spring Break unless we find out (to the NIT), but we have Sporrs Writer week. a 10.5 average. She also is differently." bounced back strongly all sea­
Without Morgan at full force, amongst the highest in scoring Will the Irish see their first son." 
Everything about tonight's game against Xavier is big. 
It will be the last home game for the team's only senior. Letitia Bowen. Bowen carries a series of big numbers into the game, including all time Notre Dame rebounding record with 951boards, and top ten all time scoring with 1,132 points. Bowen has also scored in dou­ble digits in the last seven games, as well as lead the team in assists and steals. 
"We want to end with a big win for Letitia." Coach Muffet McGraw said. 
The Irish will enter the game with the playing status of lead­ing perimeter shooter Beth Morgan still questionable. Morgan has been sidelined the last four games with an injured knee, but is expected to be at full strength for the Midwestern there is a big opportunity for the freshman players to step up. In the last game against Detroit Mercy, rookies Kari Hutchinson and Mollie Pierick combined for 7 three pointers to help post the win. 
"Kari and Mollie played well on Saturday," McGraw said, ''I'm looking forward to them gaining more experience." 
The Irish played Xavier earli­er this year, defeating them 72­
63. Currently, is 3-7 in the con­ference but still poses a threat as the last conference game before the MCC tournament starts next week. 
"Xavier is a good three point team and has good post play­ers," McGraw said, "They take good shots from the perimeter." 
So what's the big deal about Xavier? Two words: Lynn Bihn. The 6'1" senior leads the post-season action since this years' seniors were naive fresh­men? 
Notre Dame gave its best pitch to the NIT suits last night, both on the court and i_n the pressroom. 
"Four years ago, we finished 14-14 playing the country's most hellacious schedule, and we were accepted to the NIT," explained coach John MacLeod. "This year we're 15­
12. and although we didn't fin­ish strongly, I think we're among the best 96 teams in the country. In my opinion, we should be an NIT team." 
Only the aftermath of Selection Sunday, March 12, will tell if the NIT committee agrees with MacLeod's asses­ment. Until then, the waiting game will be Notre Dame's most frustrating opponent, allowing the Irish time to guess, assess, and look back on what could have been. 
"It's going to be hard (waiting for the bid)," stated Taylor. "We're looking to get some­thing out of this season." 
Three weeks ago it looked certain that the Irish would get "something," it was just a mat­ter of what. Following a late season collapse, they will be 

The Irish are now at the mercy of the conference tour­naments that will determine NCAA position. If the favorites continue to win, Notre Dame has a good chance at finding a home in the Big Dance's cousin. However, if upsets abound, the trickle down effect might bounce the Irish. 
Being relegated to observer status, Notre Dame can either look at the season that was as lost opportunity. or as a posi­tive step toward the future. 
It would be easy to focus on regret. The Dayton debacle. A loss to Fordham. The Marquette game. A different outcome in any of those might bring more optimism to the Irish future. 
However, looking back isn't the forte of this Irish squad. Even the seniors would prefer to discuss the future, NIT aside. 
''I'd like it to be our (the seniors) legacy to have started something," remarked Taylor. "If we can keep building from here into success in the Big East, that would be the greatest feeling." 
As with their post-season chances, Taylor will have to wait and see if this wish comes true. 

Notre Dame senior captain ends her regular season career tonight at home against Xavier as the Irish look to position themselves for post-season run. 
ATTENTION: CINCINNATI AREA STUDENTS 
The 1995 Xavier summer sessions bulletin of classes & workshops Is now available. Undergraduate &graduate level courses offered in the areas of arts and sciences, business, education, professional studies and social sciences. Session dates: May 15 -June 22 &July 3-August 1 0 CALL OR WRITE: 





X\VIEK 
I 
summer Sessions UNIVERSITY 3800 Victory Parkway Cincinnati, OH 45207·3120 513-745-4381 
Xav~r Universily is an acalkmic comm~~~~ily committed to tqiiiJJ opportunity for all ptrsoiiS rtgardle.u l(agt, sa, ractt, rttligion, handicap, or natiONJI origin. 
averages with just under 20 points per game. 
"(Bihn] played well against us last time," McGraw said, "She's big and a good rebounder." 
Bihn may have the bulk of a big girl, but the Irish have the smooth skills of 6'3" Katryna Gaither for Bihn to deal with. Gaither is currently the team's leading scorer with 20.2 aver­age in conference play. 
"[Bihn] is the best competi­tion Tryna has faced in our conference." junior guard Stacy Fields said. "It'll be a good bat­tle in the post." 
The Notre Dame team is still holding on to a first place rank­ing in the conference, and has won 16 of their last 18 games. 
"We need to continue playing the way we've been playing," McGraw said,"We need good defense and good rebounding." 
The Observer/Eric Ruethling 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
lately." 
The Irish also finally saw a return on their investment in youth this season. In evenly distributed playing time, sopho­more guards Admore White (10 points, four assists) and Pete Miller (eight points) responded well, as did freshmen front­court mates Derek Manner (12 points, seven boards) and Brian Watkins (eight points). 

Notre Dame's diverse offen­sive onslaught resulted in a season high 24 assists for the Irish. 
The porous Rambler defense also helped the cause. "Dribble, penetrate, miss and dunk -that's a pretty good offense," commented discour­aged Loyola coach Ken Burmeister, whose first year campaign mercifully ended at 5-21. 
NIT bids are announced Sunday. March 12. 
WANTED BY THE OBSERVER NEWS DEPT: 
Motivated, eager folks for the following positions 
ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITOR ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR NEWS COPY EDITOR 
Interested? Then The Observer wants you! Please submit a resume and statement of intent to Dave Tyler by Thursday, March 2 at 8 p.m. Questions? Call Dave at 1-5323 or 4-1200. 

·­
• 
' \\ \ 

Wednesday, March I, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
MIRRORLAND 
La's 
l£T 1.S 
HUY NGOC PHAN 


CALVIN AND HOBBES 
LOOI( HOB\3£.5, 
T\-\15 \'S MY R£.1\REMEJH Ful'm 
OILBERT 
1\-\15 IS 11-\E \SSV't: Wl-\t:Rt. 11-\'t:'{ 1~\ROI>\JCE 11-\t.. P-.RC\-\· 'l\Llf>-11'1 "\)Ef>-11-11-\E IS1ER'.' 
IN f>. FEW '{Ef\RS, f\ ~R~ Mli\\T coP'i or _ _...-...___.­11\\S WILL 8£ WORT\1 MILL\~) 
at OOLlfo..RS! 
BILL WATTERSON 
Wt::Rt. fo..LL
1-\0W WILL 11-\£5£.

~E't.OlESS "Kl st>.'(, l \30JGI-\T 
C.C>\JN\11-\G C>l\
BE RARE 1\1'\\)
F\'JE C0?\£.5, SEI\li:I> T\-\£.1-\ 
ntE O"mt.R.
'11\l\JM~.Lt. It t'luti

\1'\ AIR\\GI-lT ?Lt>.~\C. &<;<;, 
KID IN 1\1'-\'t:RIC!I. 
~'!'S MOM

!'>NI> 1'\JI 11-\t.t<\ \N f>.. \3<::1( IN 11-\E 
To \\\ROW
1-\t>.':. Fl'lt. COI'\E.S?

CLOSIT, W\-I£.Rt. 11-\£. LIG\.\1 1\1\D 
HVMID11'/ WQt..\T Ati=KT 1\-lt.\R r-----4~..--..,---< 
n\EM A.WI\i. 
I'RK\OIJS ?1\GES! 
~I 
SCOTT ADAMS 
Wr\Y I5 IT TMT I NEVER 1-\A.VE. TIME TO EAT BUT '<OU MEN ARE. IN HERE.
....,....... E.VER'< OA'( AT \1:35 7' 

I THOUGHT IT WAS 
\3EC~USE. WE GET 1-\UNGRY AT 11:30 . 
WE CAN'T REVE.AL A.ll 
OUR SECRETS. 
CROSSWORD 
BECAUSE THE HOURS WE SPENT UPGRADING OUR 
PC.s 1-\/l..VE FIN/l..LL Y PAID OFF BY GREATLY IMPROVING OUR EFFICIENCY 
58 Mr. Rubik 59 Muezzin's God 60 Singular cheer? 62 Grave marker 63 Pisces' follower B4Aiibi guy 65 Church plate 66 Aquarium fish &7 Composer 
Rorem 
DOWN 
1 Ready to swing 2 "Charlie's Angels" co-star 3 "Skittle Players" 
painter 4--fi s Actress Wright 
of "Mrs. Miniver" &Soprano Frances 7 Move like a butterfly a Opposing sides 9 Hypnotism pioneer 
10 Partner of Porthos 
11 SingularChristmas toy? 12 Stampeding group 13 Ring cheers 
.-:::'--E-F.-1 18 DDT ingredient ~::-E-E-1 24 Gershwin's 
~,....,......, "-Ita Pity?" 
25 Five-and-a-half 
-=+~+.=-+=-! yards 
~~+-:-~ 27 Love of money 
circulation 
29 Munchhausen, e.g. 31 Played for a sucker 32 Cots and cradles 33 "So be it" 34Mislay 35 Singular slug? 37 Smoothie 40 Cartoonist Silverstein 42 "Das Lied­der Erde" 
G
.. 
z 


33 Longfellow character 
3&Wayto go 
37 Task for Holmes 
38 Get on 
39 Misreckon 
40 Balked 
41 Salinger dedicatee 
42 Overrule 
43 Deck or dock workers 44 Whippoorwill's bill 45 Singular club performer? 47 Knowledgeable 
about 
49 Not quite 
53 Walloping winds 55 Wagon train direction 

45 "Lando'-!" 52 Played (with) 46 "Death Comes 53 Last breath for the 
54 Neighbor of

Archbishop" 
B.C.

author 
55 "Huh?"

48 Rembrandt, the painter 56 The old sod so Senator Hatch 57 Roasting device 51 Hisser &1 Olympics chant 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (7~ each minute). 
CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 

The Candle Glow Inn Introduces Its new scratch-and-sniff menus . 
• OF INTEREST 
Channel Post Graduate Program recruiters Greg Kramer and RiCh Shively will be on campus from March 1-3. They will be available from 9:00 a.m. to noon at the Center for Social Concerns today and from 
11:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. tomorrow at the Hesburgh Library Concourse to speak with interested students. 
Masc1,1llnity in the 1990's will hold a lecture entitled "The Military and Masculinity" today in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium at 4:00 p.m. The lec­ture will be given by J. William Gibson, professor of Sociology at Cal State Long Beach. 
Study Abroad through one-semester business pro­grams in France, Germany, Vienna, London, and Milan. There is an informational meeting today at 
4:30 p.m. in 125 DeBartolo. 
A mass celebrating Ash Wednesday will be held at 7:30 p.m. in the Stanford/Keenan Chapel with celebrant Father Bob Dowd. Sponsored by 4th Da.y/NDE. 
•MENU 
Notre Dame 
NORTH 
Grouper 
Asparagus 
Pastaria Pasta Primavera 
Saint Mary's 
Broiled Sole Meat Loaf 
SOUTH Vegetarian Chili Fettucine Alfredo Eggplant Parmesan 
Vegetarian Stuffed Peppers 


Have something to say? Use The Observer classifieds 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~'-+-'~ --=+=-B-:7• ......,~"-IIIIIIIF-I~::-1 ..;...+-:~~~ 
,. 
_... _ 
·­

ACROSS 
1 TV interruptions 4 Support crew 9 Tough 
14 Little 'un 15lnstrument played sitting 
down 1&A Kennedy 11 Singular 1960 
musical? 19Vacation 
destination 20 Toward shelter 21 Grub 22 Dispositions 23 Game of love 25 Those not listed 2& Singular 
celebrity? 30 Tight spot 

-• " ., • ., ,. • r " • ' "
•• • • ••• •'·•••-•. •••••••-·--~~·-·-·~·--~-#-···~•----·-·-·-~~·T·~~ ~---~-• •. 
••• f .........., ... "· ···-"·'·'· ..........,.&........ ,.,t.tJ~·········'-'•'•'•'•c."............~.... ·-·-~···· ..........._.._ ................ h .......-... -., • .oil -••• ~ 
I.' J 
I 

., 

SPORTS 
page 20 Wednesday, March 1, 1995 
• MEN'S BASKETBAll 

Irish make their closing argument, 93-63 
• JOCK ST111P 

Seniors make case for bid 
Notre Dame's 
By TIM SEYMOUR while doling out six assists. 
Associate Sports Editor "It's great to see this game 
for the seniors," stated Notre
fate on hold 
Notre Dame saved its best Dame head coach John 
w i t h 
for last. The question now MacLeod. "They set a great three min­remains whether that was example for the team and utes left in enough. established a great work ethic the 30 point In its final regular season when they camn a short four decimation game, the Irish churned out years ago." of Loyola spectacular efforts on both The Irish used a 16-1 run at last night, ends of the floor, cruising to a the start of the second half to the three 93-63 whitewash of the hap­put the contest out of reach, Irish schol­less Loyola (Ill.) Ramblers. playing perhaps their best bas­arship play­Tim Seymour Now they must hope that the ketball of the season. The ers left the Associate powers that be in the NIT were charge was ignited by a Taylor 
suitably convinced to offer a coast to coast dunk and culmi­
game at Sports Editor 
intervals, 15-12 Notre Dame squad a nated in a slam by freshman each to a standing ovation. berth in their tournament. Pat Garrity, who scored nine of 
For Lamarr Justice, Jason Trying to be as persuasive as his game high 17 points during Williams. and Billy Taylor, it possible, the three Irish schol­the stretch. was a moment of temporary arship seniors -Lamarr Notre Dame shot a sizzling 
jubilation, a time to celebrate Justice, Jason Williams, and 61% from the floor in the sec­
before considering the more Billy Taylor -turned their ond half, fueled by numerous weighty question of the l. potentially last game within fast break opportunities. evening: were there careers the friendly confines of the "We played good defense, 
Joyce A.C.C. into a tour de and offensively, especially inreally over? 
"We are preparing to go to force. the second half, got rolling," the NIT," stated Williams. Williams and Taylor headed noted MacLeod. "We got out "We are practicing just as we the list of five Irish players in on some fast breaks and we would prepare for any other The Observer/Kyle Kusek double figures, netting 12 and haven't been able to do that 
Irish senior Billy Taylor, in what could have been his final game in a 
10 respectively, while Justice

Notre Dame uniform, notched 1 0 points as the Irish beat Loyola. 
contributed five rebounds
see JOCK/ page 18 see IRISH/ page 18 
• BENGAL Boms 

~-165-lb. class loses two, free road to finals for Dolan and Christoforetti 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sports Editor 
It appears fight fans won't get another look at junior Jack MacLeod, at least not for another year. 
The 165-pounder will not compete in tonight's Bengal Bout semifinals (7:30 JACC Fieldhouse) because of a rup­tured ear drum suffered in his quarter­final win over Glen Manzano. 
The hard-swinging.junior was diag­nosed yesterday and advised by doctors not to compete. A severely swollen and cut nose, may have also pushed the decision, although MacLeod said the ear was the deciding factor. 
"He hit me in the second round with a right hook that hit my on my left ear," MacLeod said. "I went to the doctor and he said if I got in the ring there was a possibility of permanent damage." 
The club captains and fight organizers offered Manzano the chance to fight in MacLeod's place but he declined. 
"I had my chance and the judges said I lost unanimously," Manzano, a senior, -· said. "I just don't think it's right. I don't 
want to be a replacement for anybody." Manzano's decision pushes Dolan into the finals by default. 
This may actually turn out to be a negative for Dolan, as he will step into the finals with less than one round of boxing under his belt this year, as his first fight didn't last past the first-round bell. 
The 165-lb class lost another fighter on Sunday, as winner Rob Piecuch's eye was swollen shut. He, like MacLeod, was advised not to continue in the bouts for fear of further harm. Thus, last year's finalist John Christoforetti will advance to the finals without stepping into the ring. 
With MacLeod and Piecuch out, the Bouts lose two promising swingers, but tonight's action will get a boost as a number of top seeds make their 1995 debut. 
Favorites Chris Rosen (155), Eric Hillegas (157), John Christoforetti (165), Rob Naticchia (175), Mike Mantey (185) and Troy Phillips (195) will compete tonight after earning byes in the quar­terfinals. 
Naticchia's fight figures to draw the most attention as he squares off, or up, with six-foot-five Pat Keaney, a former Irish basketball player. 
Tonight's card also includes the debut of the heavyweights. Junior Brady Curtis fights senior Jason Svadeba for the right to battle former Notre Dame football player Greg Stec in the finals, held Saturday evening in the JACC Arena. 
The first fight on the semifinal slate quite could possibly be the most en­tertaining for fight fans. Eric Garcia, a champion in 1993, faces hard-swinging newcomer Avalino Verceles, who slugged past Bob Payne in the quarterfi­nals on Sunday. 
see BENGALS/ page 17 



of note...
TOBACCO ROAD RUCKUS 
-
Quiet Wake Forest continued to get the job done, as they knocked off no. 2 North 
See Friday's Sports Extra for in­Carolina last night in ACC action. 
depth Bengal Bouts coverage. See page 14 






