
Friday, September 8, 1995 • Vol. XXVII No. 15 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT iv1ARY'S 
Magazine poll lauds ND, SMC 
US News names Saint Mary's 1st in Midwest 
By DAVE TYLER and PAITI CARSON News Edi1ors 

U.S. News and World Report Magazine released its annual survey of American colleges and universities Thursday and Notre Dame continued its climb in the rankings, while for the second consecutive year Saint Mary's claimed the top spot in its category. 
Notre Dame moved up one spot to eighteenth in the na­tional universities category, while Saint Mary's remained the number one Regional Lib­eral Arts College. 
Harvard University finished atop the national universities category, followed by Princeton and Yale, who tied for second. Stanford, Massachusetts Insti­tute of Technology, Duke, Cali­fornia Institute of Technology, Dartmouth, Brown, and Johns Hopkins rounded out the top ten. 
The University of Chicago fin­ished eleventh, followed by the University of Pennsylvania, Cornell, Northwestern, 
Top Ranking Colleges in the Nation 
The top 20 colleges in the U.S. as ranked by U.S. News & World Report 
1. 
Harvard University 11. University of Pennsylvania

2. 
Princeton University 11. University of Chicago


2. Yale University 13. Cornell University 
4. 
Stanford University 13. Northwestern University

5. 
MIT 15. Columbia University

6. 
Duke University 16. Rice University 

7. 
California Institute 17. Emory University of Technology 18. University of Notre Dame 


7. Dartmouth College 19. University of Virginia 
9. 
Brown University 20. Washington University

10. 
Johns Hopkins University 



Midwest liberal Arts Schools 
1. 
St. Mary's College 4. Ohio Northern University

2. 
St. Norbert College 5. Millikin University 

3. 
Marietta College 6. Taylor University 


Columbia, Rice, Emory and Notre Dame. 
Saint Mary's bested Saint Norbert College, Marietta, Ohio Northern and Millikin to take the top spot in its field. 
In separate sub-categories, Notre Dame ranked ninth na­tionally in teaching excellence, 25th in the quality of business programs, and 38th in the en­gineering school category. 
U.S. News and World Report compiles its rankings by collect­ing the results of a U.S. News reputational survey of officials at over 2,700 accredited four-year colleges and universities. College presidents, deans, and admission directors were asked to rate all the schools in the same category as their own in­stitutions. 
Those responding to the sur­vey were asked to place each school into one of four quartiles based upon its reputation. The resulting reputational rankings were then combined with edu­cational data tests that had been provided by the colleges themselves. These included 
see POLL I page 4 



Riding that train 
There's no need to watch your speed when cruising the 1.5 mile Notre Dame & Western 
By JOHN LUCAS Editor-in-Chief 
In some houses they were a Christmas-time tradition, set up in a circle around the fami­ly tree. The more devoted converted their basements into rugged landscapes featuring mountain ranges and lengthy tunnels. 
Whether it was a Lionel or H.O.-scale set, most American males will happily describe their first experience with toy trains. 
For John DeLee and Francis Chrisovergis, the fascination never wore off. But instead of settling for merely collecting tiny locomotives and train cars, both found bigger and better trains to "play" with. 
DeLee and Chrisovergis are primarily responsible for the operation of the Notre Dame & Western Railroad, one of the shortest rail lines in the world and the only operated by a col­lege or university. 
Once used to link football fans to Chicago and Niles, the one and a half mile line is now used for transporting the bulk of the university's fuel coal to the Power Plant. 
As Director of Utilities, DeLee manages the heating, air conditioning and electric 

A Radiant Sight 
Not even a web of scaffolding can diminish the beauty of the Dome on a summer evening. 
Left: The 1942 Porter locomotive of the Notre Dame & Western Railroad pulls cars loaded with coal toward the Power Plant. Established in 1932, the line was once part of a larger route that transported football fans between campus and Chicago. Currently, the 1.5 mile spur is used primar­ily to ferry 30,000 tons of coal to campus from Ohio and West Virginia. Below: Millwright Lou Smith connects the locomo­tive to waiting Conrail coal cars. 
power supply for the universi­ty. Although the Power Plant is equipped to run on other fuels, like oil or gas, coal is the cheapest source. 
Since trucking the coal cross-country is prohibitively expensive, the bulk of the sup­ply comes by Conrail train from West Virginia and Ohio and is left at the beginning of the N.D. & W. spur at the intersection of Douglas Rd. 
and U.S. 31/33. 
From there, a 1942 Porter locomotive takes over, usually pulling the coal cars to the power plant, where the coal is unloaded. In the event of a surplus, extra coal is stored in piles on the opposite side of Douglas. 
In total, the university con­sumes 120 tons of coal every 
see TRAIN I page 4 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE · Friday, September 8, 1995 
• INSIDE COLUMN 


Wanted: soiDeone to 
•

organize 01e 
I am now accepting 
Peggy Lenczewski 
applications for a secre­tary. If you want the Saint Mary's News position, you must be Editor highly organized and follow me around telling me where I am sup­posed to go and why. 
For example, "Peggy, you go to your com­parative politics class now, in room 328. Your are going so that you can graduate." 
· You must also tell me what homework I have to do and why, along the lines of "Peggy, you are now going to read 40 pages of justification for the President of the United States. You are going to do this because if you don't you'll be even more lost than usual in class." 
I don't understand how my life suddenly got so complicated and where this need for structure came from. A daily planner always worked in the past. Now, I'm juggling assignments and reading, papers and arti­cles, credit card bills and laundry. 
Laundry. That's something else my secre­tary should do. I should never again wake up in the morning and realized that I have no clean clothes. This happened recently and it was a traumatic experience. 
So maybe what I really need is my mom here, or even somebody else's mother. Just someone to do my laundry and maybe cook once in a while. Periodically, I develop this craving for pork chops, and all the pork served in the dining hall is a suspicious shade of purple, so she could make me pork chops and do my laundry and occasionally 
. make ~y bed. 
Maybe I should get a maid. I'm sure my roommates would like that. She could make all our beds every day, fluff our pillows and leave after dinner mints on them. Dust would become a thing of the past, and I wouldn't have to worry about treading on spilled coffee grounds barefoot. No more dirty dishes. 
My life would be organized and neat, and free of lint and grime, but who would take care of my emotional health? I think I need a boyfriend, too. 
Nothing serious, of course. I'm not ask­ing for a marriage proposal or a discussion about whether or not I'll hyphenate my last name. Just someone to rub my feet and play with my hair. 
Our conversations would run something like this: I would say "Oh, jeeze, I am so stressed out. I feel like I'm trying to run a three hour marathon through the frosting between oreo cookies. Life is pretty mean­ingless, so why am I doing all this?" 
He would respond, " Because you are an extremely talented, extremely beautiful woman and you have brought meaning to my 
.existence. Let me rub your poor feet." 
It'd be nice. I don't know where I'd put all these people; my closet isn't quite that big. So I think I need a deluxe model maid/secre­tary/boyfriend/mother. That way, other peo­ple could take care of the details, and I would be left to study and think deep, mean­ingful thoughts. I could write my resume, or I could tell my secretary to write it. I'd never have to type another term paper, I'd dictate them. I'd have ice cream and kisses 24-7. Clean sheets and no clutter. 
Do they sell them at Meijer? 
• 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News Jamie Heisler Tom Moran  Production David Diaz Jackie Moser  
Sports Andy Cabiness Tim Seymour  Accent Joey Crawford Jenny Shank  
Lab Tech Nicky Batill  Graphics Chris Mullins  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

The Accu-Weather~forecast for noon, Friday, Sept. 8. lines separate high temperature zones tor the day . 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1995 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure ~ 
H LEa DSJITII 0 ~§ ~ L-!U 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FlURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUCJY' CLOUDY 
Atlanta 83 65 Denver 56 48 New Orleans 92 66 Ba~imore 90 66 French lick, IN 82 70 New York 91 70 Boston 87 62 Los Angeles 93 73 Philadelphia 89 69 Chicago 67 60 Phoenix 98 75 Columbus 79 58 Miami 90 76 Roswell, GA 81 67 Dallas 88 76 Minneapolis 62 51 St. Louis 81 68 
• Wmu.D AT A GLANCE 
Serbs refusing peace as NATO continues to bomb 
SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herzegovina 
NATO jets streamed through a break in the clouds and fog Thursday, stepping up raids on Bosnian Serb military targets and setting off thunderous blasts that rattled windows miles away in Sarajevo. 
Yet rebel Serb leaders refused to accede to the Western alliance's main demand: the withdrawal of the heavy guns that have terrorized Sarajevo for more than three years. To do so, one Serb hardliner said, would be "capitulation." 
The Serb position could sink peace talks Friday in Geneva that are to include the foreign ministers of Bosnia, Croatia and Serb-led Yugoslavia. 
The Yugoslav government, empowered to negotiate for the Bosnian Serbs, urged an end to the aerial bombardment, which it called "a direct attack on the current nego­tiations." 
Since launching air attacks last week in retaliation for a Serb shelling of Sarajevo's main market, NATO has flown more than 2,100 sorties, targeting Serb military com­mand centers, radar, communications and weapons and ammunition storage areas. 
The Serbs, despite apparent concessions on other U.N. demands, have staunchly refused to pull their guns at least 12 1/2 miles away from Sarajevo as the United Nations and NATO demand. 
They fear withdrawal would mean for­feiting claim to any part of Sarajevo in peace negotiations, where the biggest hur­dle would be dividing Bosnia between Serbs and a Muslim-Croat federation. 
Jackson headlines MTV awards 
NEW YORK 
Michael Jackson-this time minus wife Lisa Marie -opened the 12th annual MTV Video Music Awards with a bang, a boom and three costume changes Thursday night. The King of Pop performed a 15-minute medley of his greatest hits, running from "Billie Jean" through the current "You Are Not Alone." He was joined onstage by 

a children's choir, a troupe of dancing mobsters, and gui­tarist Slash at different times during the opening number. "Thank you," he told the crowd, which gave him a stand­ing ovation. "Listen, I love you." Host Dennis Miller fol­lowed Jackson, offering a monologue that followed the traditionally raunchy tenor of the show. Miller was bleeped twice before a single award was presented. 
Man wins obesity lawsuit 
SAN FRANCISCO 
A jury awarded $1 million to a man who said he was fired by an auto parts store because of his 400-pound girth. The state jury agreed with John Rossi that his obe­sity is a physical disability rather than a matter of overindulgence and that he is protected under a California law similar to the federal Americans with Disabilities Act. The 35-year-old former high school foot­ball star had accused Kragen Auto Parts of concocting poor performance reviews to cover the real reason for his dismissal. The company maintained Rossi was fired for poor job performance. Rossi said last Friday's verdict, which left him in tears, should send a message. "I hope people are judged on their character and work ethic, not on their appearance," Rossi said Thursday. "I was a hard worker. I missed only three days in 10 years. And as a manager, I worked 50-and 60-hour weeks." 
AP/Wm. J. Castello 
Rushdie returns to public eye 
LONDON 
Cracking wise and playing to the crowd, Salman Rushdie called it his "coming-out party." But the Iranian death order that sent him into hiding hung Thursday over his first announced public appearance in six years. He chose a panel discussion on "Writers Against the State" to make his debut. His appearance was advertised a week in advance and the venue, a Methodist church hall in central London, was sold out. "Thank you for coming to this little coming-out party," Rushdie said. Then, quickly: "As I was saying before I was so rudely inter­rupted ... " His life was turned upside down when he incurred the wrath of the late Iranian spiritual leader Ayatollah Khomeini with his 1989 novel "The Satanic Verses." The Iranian leader issued the fatwa, or death order, and his government backed it up with the promise of $1 million to whomever carried out the deed. 
JFK Jr.'s new magazine premieres 
NEW YORK 
John Kennedy Jr. introduced a new love Thursday to more than 100 invited reporters -a magazine named George. The magazine is a kind of Rolling Stone of poli­tics, a smart-alecky take on the subject for the 18-to-45 set. Kennedy is a co-founder and the editor and chief. The first issue features Madonna in a regular celebrity feature, "If I Were President"; Julia Roberts talking about her trip to Haiti; Kennedy's interview with former Alabama Gov. George Wallace; and a piece on stumping in New Hampshire with GOP presidential candidate Richard Lugar. The launch was held at Federal Hall, where George Washington, the magazine's namesake, became president, though Washington might have been taken aback by the inaugural cover, which features Cindy Crawford in a bra, powdered wig and pants thistight. 
Friday, September 8, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 3 



Godmilow to premiere new film at the Snite 
By ETHAN HAYWARD 
Associate News Editor 
Internationally heralded film director and associate profes­sor of Communication and Theatre Jill Godmilow will screen her new film "Roy Cohn/Jack Smith" tonight at 7 
p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum of Art. Dean Harold 1\tridge of the_ College of Arts and Letters will introduce Godmilow at the screening. 
The premiere has been de­signed as a gala benefit for the University's Gender Studies Program and as a forum for the discussion of gay and lesbian issues on the Notre Dame cam­pus. The screening will be fol­lowed by a question and answer session involving Godmilow and two other respondents: Eve Kosofsky Sedgewick, an endowed chair at Duke University and the University of Chicago's George Chauncey, author of the book Gay New York. 
A roundtable discussion con­cerning the film will be held tomorrow morning at 10:30 in the Montgomery Theater in LaFortune Center. The discus­sion is entitled "Epistemology of Campus Closets: Multiculturalism, Catholic Character, Politicized Scholarship" and will feature Kosofsky and Chauncey as well as Notre Dame faculty mem­bers Gloria-Jean Masciarotte and Erskine Peters of the English department, Jean Porter of the theology depart­ment, and Ava Preacher, assis­tant dean of the College of Arts and Letters. 
The film is set in the 1950's and 60's and centers on two prominent homosexuals: Roy Cohn, the infamous right wing lawyer, and Jack Smith, the openly gay underground film­maker. Both men died of AIDS within three years of each other in the 1980's. The film explores the polarized manners in which each man dealt with his homosexuality and their responses to the dilemma of oppression against gays. 
Cohn became a renowned gay-basher, leading his life as a performance of a straight man. According to Godmilow, Cohn lived his life "in a cage, which he seemed to enjoy." 
Conversely, Smith exploited his homosexuality, flaunting it in nearly all of his films and performance art. 
The film stars Ron Vawter, who portrays both main char­acters and who has starred in films such as "sex, lies, and videotape", "Silence of the Lambs", and "Philadelphia". Vawter, who originally did a stage version of Godmilow's film, died of AIDS last year 
Godmilow says her film is neither pro-gay nor anti-gay. It is about the destructive distor­tion that the dilemma of homosexual oppression pro­duces. 
Kathleen Biddick, director of the Gender Studies Program, says the screening and forum are two parts of a project to ad­dress the homosexual issue on campus. 
The project poses the ques­tion, "What does it mean to mandate official closeting? The administration's refusal to rec­ognize GLND/SMC, even if the administration does not per­ceive its refusal as such, does­de facto-enforce a public ju­ridical closet for GLND/SMC­no matter how pervasive and heartfelt individual concern and care to gay and lesbian students might be among us all on campus," according to Biddick. 

The Observer/ Katie Kroener 
Tumblin' Down 
Tae Kwon Do classmates perfect forward rolls during their weekly class at the Rockne Memorial. 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
Associate News Editor 
Interested in learning a little more about what is going on in Northern Ireland these days? 
Then check out "A Confer­ence on the Issue of Human Rights Violations in the North of Ireland," running all day long today in the courtroom of the Law School. 
"We want to bring to light the issues that people don't hear about that much," said Brian Foley, president of the North­ern Ireland Awareness Group, which is one of the organiza­tions sponsoring the event. 
The conference, which began at 9 a.m., includes four panel discussions, each devoted to a topic of current interest in the human rights field. 
Among the issues discussed are the abrogation of rights, faults in the judicial system, and the role of American lawyers, law students, and human rights activists in advancing the cause of human rights in Ireland. 
The discussions are at 9:45 a.m., 11:30 a.m., 1:45 p.m. and 3:20p.m. 
While the awareness group does not officially advocate any political position on the conflict in Northern Ireland, it favors keeping people aware of events in that country. 
"The key is education. If we can get people in Congress to put a little pressure on the British, then maybe the situa­tion will change for the better," Foley said. "America has a tendency to bow to the British on this issue because we con­sider them such an important ally. 
"It's a shame that this doesn't get as much interest as it should." 
Today's conference, free of charge to students, also in­cludes presentations from guest speakers, professors, and stu­dents. 
The Lawyers Alliance for Rights in Ireland is also spon­soring the event. 


Class Rings 
are now available for pick up in the Class Ring Office at the Bookstore from 
Tuesday 9I5 -Thursday 9I14 
Hours: Monday -Friday 
9:00-am-12:00 pm 1:00pm-4:30pm 
concerning that group," was• CORRECTIONS made by Dennis Moore,In an article in yesterday's Director of Public Relations Observer on the American So­and Information. ciological Association, a quotation was incorrectly In an article in Wednesday's attributed to Richard Observer on the Graduate Stu­Williams, chairman of the dent Union, a figure relatingSociology Department. The to graduate student health statement, "The university care was incorrect. Students wholeheartedly continues to currently pay $400 for general try to find better ways to serve coverage. our gay and lesbian communi­ty. But recognition won't hap­The Observer regrets the pen for historical reasons errors.  
Have something to say? Use The Observer classifieds.  


"The Best Tan Under The Sun" 
• Beds, Booth.~ & Euros 
• 
Open 1 Days AWeek 

• 
Convenient Bonrs 

• 
Student Discounts 


Guurantttd Satisfaction! 
256-9656 
Gwt k Mcl~Htn" 
Nw K·MAilf 
Friday, September 8, 1995
page 4 The Observer • NEWS 
about their roles as teachers everyone who drives the loco­Porter locomotive. 
and mentors, according to motive, says DeLee. Since the "He wouldn't let anyone else
Poll Train 
continued from page 1 
statistics that measured student selectivity, faculty resources, financial resources, retention rates, and alumni satisfaction. 
While the rankings were good news for both schools, officials at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame took decidedly different views of the poll. 
"(The ranking) says some­thing for being in this game for over 150 years," said Dorothy Feigl, Saint Mary's vice presi­dent and dean of faculty. 
·Repeatedly appearing in these polls with success suggests that whatever is earning a school that rating is integral, not acci: dental, according to Feigl. 
"In a sense, it's like our na­tional championship," said William Hickey, Saint Mary's president. "We feel a tremen­dous sense of satisfaction and pride in the institution," he added. 
Saint Mary's also ranked in the top five in the individual categories of academic reputa­tion, faculty resources, financial resources, and retention rank­ranking number one in reten­tion rank. 
"As an educational institution, the quality of the education is directly related to the quality of the faoulty ,"Hickey said. 
And it's not just what an insti­tution attracts, but what it re­tains in the end that matters, according to Hickey. 
Being number one for a sec­ond consecutive year shows what happens when a college assembles a group of motivated and intelligent students to­gether with faculty wh·o care Hickey. 
"The ranking suggests what message we are sending out," he said. 
But Dennis Moore, director of Notre Dame's Public Relations and Information Department, isn't sure what message the poll itself sends out. 
"We're not sure how valid it is to compare schools in this way," said Moore. 
"If you're going to rank schools, we definitely feel we belong in the top 20, but the ranking depends so much on how the numbers are calcu­lated. It might not have a thing to do with what actually went on at a school during a given year," he said. 
Not that Notre Dame is com­plaining. -"If we're not in (the top 20) something's wrong" Moore said. "We feel we are on that level." 
The U.S. News World Report numbers compare so many rad­ically different schools that it is tough to arrive a valid compari­son, Moore said. 
"If you look at a school like the University of Chicago, and compare it to Notre Dame, you'll frnd we have roughly the same size student bodies and costs, but that's about it. They are two-thirds graduate stu­dents, we're three-quarters undergraduate. 
"Chicago does quite a pit of research, we're ranked ninth in teaching. Both are great schools, yet we have different rankings. It's the old song about apples and oranges," he said. 
"It's important to remember that these numbers are derived from some one's opinions," said Moore. 
continued from page 1 
day and 52,000 tons of coal last year, 30,000 of which came by way of the Notre Dame & Western. New loads of 1,200 tons are brought in every eight to ten days. 
While his official title is me­chanic and fuel handler, Chrisovergis has the job many would love to try. He's the man behind the wheel, or lever as it may be, when the World War 11-era Porter heads down the track. 
Believe it or not, operating the train is not as easy as it looks, says Chrisovergis, who has worked on the N.D. & W. for the last 25 years. 
"Anybody can jump up in the seat and drive the thing," he says. "The trick is to make it stop. It takes three times longer to stop than a car. Plus, instead of using a foot pedal, you're using a hand lever." 
Safety is a major concern of train has a difficult time brak­ing, crews have to be particu­larly careful of traffic on Douglas. 
"It looks very simple, but it's really a massive amount of metal moving down the track," he says. "One slip and you could come right through the Power Plant." 
In the winter when weather is frequently wet, the brakes have little effect and "the train just slides down the track," says Chrisovergis. To combat this, sand is spread on the track, and suddenly the loco­motive can "almost stop on a dime." 
DeLee and Chrisovergis have years of experience in operat­ing the N.D. & W., but both cite the late Brother Borromeo Malley as the biggest "train 
. buff" ever to grace the campus. 
Malley purchased the Porter locomotive and brought it to campus in 1952 for a mere $1500. He helped run the line for over 40 years and loved the 
drive it," says DeLee. Malley's engine has attracted a devoted following. 
Every year, several train en­thusiasts and writers make the trek to South bend for the sole reason of watching the N.D. & 
W. in action. 
In addition, the university has frequently contributed antiquated railway equipment to the Heston Steam Group, a society of train lovers. 
So, how does an aspiring en­gineer get started in "the busi­ness?" A connection is a must, says Chrisovergis. 
His grandfather, who worked in the Power Plant 50 years ago, helped him originally find a job unloading coal. When the mechanic's job opened up, he jumped at the chance. 
"It's a big joy to get up there (in the locomotive) and run it down the track," he says. 
"The best part is seeing little kids in cars (on Douglas) and their faces when you wave at them." 
Israel, PLO debate Hebron 
By DAN PERRY 
Associated Press 
TABA, Egypt 
Israeli and PLO leaders re­ported "slight progress" but no agreement by early Friday on the thorny question of who will control Hebron after Palestinian autonomy is estab­lished in the West Bank. 
"We made a first slight move on the issue of Hebron, but there is still a long way to go," said Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres. clearly ex­hausted after nine hours of talks with PLO chief Yasser Arafat. 
Israel initially wanted to keep Hebron, the only Arab city in the West Bank that is home to a small Jewish settler commu­nity, out of the autonomy ar­rangement. The issue has be­come the major obstacle to a deal. 
It was the second day of what both sides called a major push to conclude the much-delayed West Bank deal by month's end. Peres said he hoped to meet again with Arafat in the Egyptian resort of Taba on Wednesday "to conclude." 
Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin had raised hopes Wednesday by saying Israel had softened its position and was proposing a partial troop withdrawal from Hebron. 
But Palestinian spokesman Marwan Kanafani said Friday that Arafat had still not ac­cepted the principle that Israeli troops remain in the town. 
"After hours and hours of talking, we did not reach an agreement. (But) the mere idea that we are still talking is in my opinion a slight progress," Kanafani said after the talks adjourned about 4 a.m. 

& READ THIS (ALL MAJORS) 
Interested in the Following? 
•  International Internship Opportunities This summer we had over 45 interns in more than 15 countries. You could be one next summer. these firms: Citibank, Waterford Crystal, Honeywell, KPMG, Market Access, ABB, National GoverHeinz and more.. cities: Dublin, Prague, London, Stuttgart, Frankfurt and more...  Intern with nor's Assoc.,  
•  Conducting International Market Research & Consulting  
•  Teaching English and Business in Developing Countries such as: Estonia, Honduras, Lithuania, and Poland  
•  Meeting Leaders in Education, Business, and Government from across the Globe  
Find it all in the Council on InternationalBusiness Development,  

the University's largest academic student organization. Find out what we're all about. Come to our Open Meeting, Sept. 11, DeBartolo 102 at 7 pm. We welcome all majors and all classes. 
Friday, September 8, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Hurricane Luis storms through St. Maarten 
Storm leaves 13 dead and 
2000 homeless 
By ANDREW SELSKY 
Associated Press 
SIMPSON BAY, St. Maarten 
·Lingering storms that kept the outside world from seeing what Hurricane Luis inflicted on this expensive Caribbean playground cleared up Thursday, revealing wide­spread destruction. 
The island was virtually iso­lated from air and sea access until Thursday, two days after one of the century's most pow­erful hurricanes hit. 
At least 13 people were killed as the 700-mile-wide storm swept through the region. 
Seven bodies had washed up in Simpson Bay. At least two others were reported killed and hundreds were missing on the island, which is split between the Dutch side and the larger French side known as St. Mar­tin. 
The storm shredded the is­land, demolishing entire neigh­borhoods, yachts, restaurants and luxury hotels. Thousands of tourists were left stranded without electricity, running water or telephone service on St. Maarten, which appeared to 
be  the  hardest  hit  of  the  
Caribbean islands.  
Looters  attacked  stores  

ripped apart by the weather. 
"They're taking jewelry, elec­tronics, everything," said police Lt. John Reeves, who arrived Thursday with a police contin­gent from Curacao to help re­store order. 
Up to 2,000 people were homeless on St. Martin, accord­ing to French administrator Michel Diessenbacher. who ar­rived Thursday from his base in Guadeloupe with 250 French soldiers on a Transall transport plane. 
Hurricane Luis tore through the eastern Caribbean with 125-mph winds. The storm strengthened Thursday to 130 mph in the Atlantic as it moved northwest at about 13 mph. It was expected to turn further north Friday. 
Luis was not expected to en­danger the U.S. mainland, but Bermuda has issued a tropical 
"As You Wish" 
Imports 
Sweaters, Wall Hangings, Jewelry, Accessories, and Much Morel Guatemala•Peru•Mexico•Nepal•ihailand•lndia•Ecuador 
Incredible Prices! 
•3'i'. 
of profits funds the education of 3 Guatemalan children (up to $1500 for 1995) 

•ANY 
coins tossed in our jar -Greatly Appreciated! They add upl 


Notre Dame  St. Mary'6  
Nov. 27 -Dec.2 ONLYl  September 12 -15  
In front of Haggar • Windy or Rainy Weather -LeMan6 Hall  

storm watch. The storm was 640 miles south of Bermuda by Thursday evening. 
Heavy surf advisories were in effect Thursday along much of the U.S. East Coast from Florida to the mid-Atlantic states, the National Weather Service re­ported. 
Radio Caribe Internationale, broadcasting from Martinique, aired interviews with witnesses who said Luis was so powerful that it ripped houses from their foundations, tore nine-ton boats from moorings and tossed them like toys to shore. 
Luis uprooted telephone and electricity poles, ripped down satellite dishes and trashed air­ports and jetties. With phone lines down, it was difficult to determine how many people were dead. 
A torn-up road in tiny St. Barthelemy was littered with the debris of interrupted lives: refrigerators, cooking casseroles and a family photo album amid fallen tree branch­
es. Thunderstorms trailing in 
Luis' wake had blinded pilots and prevented French military helicopters from landing Wednesday. 
French officials had to wait until Thursday to ferry in food and medicine -along with vol­unteer doctors and soldiers. 
Other nations also rallied Thursday to help ravaged is­lands. The British destroyer HMS Southampton was at An­guilla. Squads of Caribbean sol­diers and police were being dis­patched to Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda and St. Kitts and Nevis. 
Reeves, the police officer, with a stubby assault rifle slung over his shoulder and a riot 
Recycle 
The Observer 
Are you a gay or lesbian undergraduate? Are you uncertain about your sexual orientation? 
You are welcome and you belong at Notre Dame. 
Campus Ministry welcomes you and invites you to join with us and with each other 
come talk about your questions and concerns discussing your sexuality with family and friends ... your faith what's going right; what's going wrong 
all conversations confidential 
for more information, please call 
Kate Barrett (1-5242) Fr. Bob Dowd, CSC (1-7800/ 1-5056) Fr. Tom Gaughan, CSC (1-6777) 

OMPIJS 
fJJNIITRY 

AP/Carl Fox 
helmet dangling from his belt, stood at a main intersection of Philipsburg in St. Maarten. He let only residents drive up to a neighborhood where there was looting. 
Hundreds of islanders swarmed Rams' Supermarket, which had its roof peeled off. They picked through products thrown about as if by a giant mixer. 
Reeves said police were not arresting looters who took food, since it would spoil in the rain, but would begin detaining those who took other goods. 
"All the police officers on the island were busy helping those 
• SECURITY BEAT 
MON. SEPT. 4 
1:21 p.m. A Stanford Hall resident reported the theft of his bike from the Stanford Hall bike rack. 
2:31 p.m. An off-campus student reported the theft of his license plate from his vehicle while parked on cam­pus. 
5:50 p.m. A Grace Hall resident reported vandalism to his vehicle parked In the 002 parking lot. 
9:26 p.m. A Siegfried Hall resident reported the theft of her bike from the Siegfried Hall bike rack. 
in need," Reeves said. "They were unable to enforce the law. We're beginning to enforce the law today." 
Up the street, three men lugged a new Hitachi television set and a Canon electronic typewriter. 
There was mile after mile of destruction, tho.ugh many homes remained untouched or showed little damage. 
Most cars had dents or win­dows bashed in. Millions of dol­lars worth of yachts were 
strewn across piers and beach­
es including the Stars and Stripes, the boat that won the Americas Cup in 1987. 
Yachters picked through wreckage and walked around the pier, stunned. 
Several hotels charging up to $400 a night have become hulks with gaping holes in their roofs. 
Jochim Marroquin-Nisch, 39, a surgeon from Lindau, Ger­many, was one of the thousands of tourists, mostly Europeans, stranded on St. Martin. 
Marroquin was on his hon­eymoon when Luis struck. He and the 80 other guests at the beachfront Golden Tulip Hotel were evacuated Monday before the storm hit to the Belvedere Hotel on higher ground. 
From there, the newlyweds watched Luis tear St. Maarten apart. 
"We saw pieces of buildings fly past our windows," Marro­quin said. 
"It's horrible," said Carolyn Mengano of New York City. "This is hell. There are no sani­tary conditions. They should have planes taking us out, but they say there won't be any until Sunday. It's ridiculous." 
TUES. SEPT. 5 
8:15 p.m. An off-campus student was transported to the Student Health Center for treatment of a sports InJury. 
11:20 p.m. A Dillon Hall resident was transported to the Student Health Center for treatment of a sports Injury. 
WEDS. SEPT. 6 
9:03 a.m. Security responded to a two car accident In the COt Parking Lot. There were no Injuries reported. 
1:52 p.m. A Lyons Hall resident reported the theft of her bookbag from the South Dining Hall. 
5:05 p.m. A Pasquorllla East resl· dent was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a sports Injury. 
IRISH ARE STILL N0.1! 
COME Elf]OYOUif IIWIIRD·WIIflfllfG PIZZIIIIND LISTEN TO THE IIREIIS BEST BLUES BlllfDI 

page6 The Observer • NEWS Friday, September 8, 1995 
Packwood chooses to resign 
By LARRY MARGASAK 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
In the hushed Senate cham­ber, a tearful Bob Packwood bowed to extraordinary pres­sure Thursday and announced 
his resigna­tion after 27 years in office. His poignant farewell headed off a vote to expel hjm for s.e.xu­

al and official Packwood misconduct. 
"It is the honorable thing to do," the Oregon Republican said, quitting only after leaders of the Ethics Committee de­nounced his behavior in lan­guage as harsh as it was blunt. Later, relieved, Packwood told The Associated Press that "an immense weight has been lift­ed" from him. 
Panel chairman Mitch Mc­Connell, a fellow Republican, summarized the evidence against Packwood this way: "There was a habitual pattern of aggressive, blatantly sexual advances, mostly directed at tranged wife from people with legislative interests, and altered his diaries to obstruct the investigation. 
Packwood had called his staff into a meeting at midafternoon, closing the office for about 15. minutes. Several staff members emerged crying. 
"There have been many suc­cesses in these 27 years, some failures, some frustrations," Packwood said minutes later, taking to the Senate floor as about half his c¢leagues and his staff looked on. "Friendships beyond count." 
Many senators sat dolefully in their seats as he spoke. Aides lined the wall at the back of the chamber. 
Packwood began the day making the rounds of TV inter­view shows, pleading for the chance to confront his accusers in a public hearing. 
McConnell answered, several hours later: "The committee has heard enough; the Senate has heard enough; the public has heard enough. The eviden­tiary record, weighing in, as I said, at 40 pounds and 10,145 pages, is here for everyone to see. Now is the time for justice to be done." 
has claimed. This was a habit­ual pattern of aggressive, bla­tantly sexual advances, mostly directed at members of his own staff or others whose liveli­hoods were connected in some way to his power and author­ity." 
McConnell dismissed Pack­wood's complaint of unfairness, saying, "The victimizer is now claiming the mantle of the vic­tim." 
Packwood did not mention the allegations in his Senate farewell, recounting better times in his long career. 
"I leave this institution not with malice but with love," he said, his voice periodically breaking. "Good luck. God­speed." 
Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole, close to tears himself, praised his longtime colleague and declared: "I believe Sena­tor Packwood has made the right decision. It's not easy. It hasn't been easy." 
Other male colleagues also praised Packwood for his Sen­ate accomplishments. 
And one female senator, Democrat Dianne Feinstein of California, said he shouldn't be remembered for the accusa­
Congress prepares to battle over bombers 
By JOHN DIAMOND 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The House today narrowly preserved funding to expand the B-2 bomber fleet, setting the stage for ,a battle with the Senate over whether to spend billions on more Stealth bombers. 
In a 213-210 vote, the House rejected an amendment to the defense appropriations bill that would have eliminat­ed $493 million toward an expanded fleet of B-2s. As a result, the two House defense bills now contain funding for more B-2s than the 20 air­craft already purchased or on order. The companion bills in the Senate have no additional B-2 funding. The issue will have to be worked out in negotiations. 
Supporters of the bomber appealed to the need to save lives by relying more heavily on radar-evading B-2s instead of the non -Stealth B-1 bomber and the 1950s-vintage B-52. They invoked the name of Air Force fighter pilot Scott 0'­Grady, shot down over Bosnia in June by a radar-guided missile. 
"If we don't go with the B-2 bomber, we are going to see pilots go down just like Mr. O'Grady went down," said Rep. Duncan Hunter, R-Calif., chairman of the House National Security procure­ment subcommittee. "Don't reject this technology. Protect our pilots." 
B-2 opponents called the plane a billion-dollar "turkey" that would soak up taxpayer dollars over the coming decades at a time when domestic spending programs were being slashed. The Air Force estimates that 20 more B-2s would cost some $19 bil­lion. Foes of the B-2 also underscored that Congress was buying a weapon that the Pentagon said it didn't need. 
"Not one single ground commander, not one single commander-in-chief -the commanders of our troops in the field -not one of them want to buy more B-2 bombers," said Rep. John Ka­sich, R-Ohio. 
members of his own staff or McConnell said the alteration tions that brought his depar­others whose livelihoods were of diaries as Packwood antici­ture. connected in some way to his pated a committee subpoena She quoted her father as 
lntervarsity Christian Fellowship 
power and authority as a sena­was "clearly illegal" and could telling her: "Don't let a man be tor." bring Packwood a prison sen­known for the last thing he 
Kick-Off Picnic
The committee, evenly di­tence if he were convicted of does. Let him be known for the vided between Democrats and such a crime. best thing he does." 
Sunday, September 1Oth 
Republicans, had spent 33 months on the investigation. It The committee's resolution 
2:00 to 5:00 P.M. 
Bed 'N Breakfast Registry 
concluded he should be ex­referred the diary alterations to 
7Q Michiana i Pint Registry ofPrivate 
at Potawatomi Park 
pelled after studying allegations the Justice Department. 
~ Homes for ND-SMC Parrots and Frinuls 
Call Chuck Se:frel at 634-3439 
that he made unwanted sexual The sexual advances, Mc­
Try the OPTION!
advances to 17 women, tried to Connell said, "were not merely 
Graduation, Football, jPW, 
Kevin Harris at 277 1971 for info 
Freshman Orientation, etc. 
obtain a job for his then-es-stolen kisses, as Sen. Packwood Meet at NO Library Circle at 1:45 for rides 
Wilma L Behnke (219) 291-7153 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN 
ATTENTION JUNIORS AND SENIORS MAJORING IN FINANCE, ACCOUNTING AND COMPUTER APPLICATIONS 
The Finance Club is sponsoring a reception in conjunction with Arthur Andersen's Specialty Consulting practice to discuss career and internship opportunities in the consulting profession. 
Arthur Andersen offers consulting careers in the following areas: 
• 
Litigation Services • Corporate Finance Consulting 

• 
Corporate Recovery Services • Government Contracts 

• 
Business Fraud Risk Services Consulting 

• 
Business Consulting • Computer Risk Management (Business Systems and • Environmental Services Operational Consulting) 


Join us at the Alumni/Senior Club at 5:30pm on Monday, September 11 for a presentation to learn more about a career as a consultant. Dress is casual. Pizza will be served at the conclusion. We hope to see you there. 
Friday, September 8, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Rioters protest French nuclear tests 
Children escape 


By SANDY MaciNTYRE  
Associated Press  
PAPEETE, Tahiti  
France ordered hundreds  
more police to this riot-torn is­ 
land paradise Thursday after  
anti-nuclear and pro-indepen­ 
dence protesters went on a  
rampage, setting fires, break­ 
ing windows and forcing the  
closing of the airport.  
The rioting Wednesday night  
in Papeete, capital of French  
Polynesia, was the most violent  
of the demonstrations held  
worldwide to protest France's  
resumption of nuclear testing  
in the South Pacific on  
Tuesday.  
At least 13 people were in­ 
jured in Papeete, including two  the blazes Thursday morning, 
policemen who were in serious  although the airport remained  
condition, French officials said.  closed. Many buildings had  
At least 50 people were ar­ been firebombed, including 
rested and damage was esti­ Tahiti's Territorial Assembly  
mated in the millions of dollars.  and part of the airport termi­ 
Firefighters doused the last of  nal. Shops were looted or  

EARN CASH by DONATING 
You could earn: 
$30°0 atter your first plasma donation! 
$15°0 if you donate alone 
t$ 5°0 if you show college I. D. (first visit) 
t$1 000 per person rt you recruit someone and they donate 
$30°0 TOTAL! Help Us Save Lives 
Must be 18 years old; proof of current address with photo I. D. COME TO: HOURS: AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL M-F: 9-6 515 LINCOLNWAY WEST SAT: 8-5 SOUTH BEND, IN 46601-1117 234-6010 

0MPU5 
MINISTRY 

three other children suffered shock. The 4:55 p.m. explosion de­
INTER-FAITH 
stroyed the car, set fire to an­other parked nearby and ig-
CAMPUS BIBLE STUDY 
har01 in bo01bing 
nited a blaze in an adjacent apartment, officials said. 
"We can thank God that this attack did not cause total car­nage, because it happened at exactly the moment school gets out," Lyon's deputy head rabbi, Isaac Elhadad, said at the scene. 
The blast came three days after a bomb was found in Paris and defused. Three bombings in Paris since July have left seven people dead and more than 100 injured and have prompted heavy security measures throughout the country. 
Police have mounted a na­tionwide effort to tighten security and search for sus­pects since the first bombing in a Paris subway train on July 25, which killed seven people and injured 84. 
After police boosted patrols and searches and covered up trash cans in subway stations, another bomb exploded on a street near the Arc de Triom­phe on Aug. 17, wounding 17 people, including 11 tourists. 
On Aug. 26, authorities found a bomb planted on a high-speed train track north of Lyon. The bomb, which like the other two was made from a gas canister filled with an explosive and bolts, failed to detonate. 
Lyon's head rabbi, Richard Wertenschlag, criticized French authorities for not heeding his request for greater protection in the peri­od leading up to Rosh Hashana and Yom Kippur. 
France's Jewish community remains haunted by the mem­ories of terrorist attacks on Jewish targets in Paris in the 1980s. 
Shortly after the explosion Thursday, the rector of the Paris Mosque and head of France's Muslim community, Dalil Boubakeur, sent a mes­sage of sympathy to Werten­schlag, saying Muslims were "shattered by the ignoble at­tack." 
burned. 
French paratroopers and Foreign Legionnaires from the Mururoa Atoll test site landed at the airport Wednesday night, freeing 80 riot police to patrol downtown with hundreds of other police. 
On Thursday the French mili­tary said another 300 police would be sent to Papeete. 
Defense Minister Charles Millon, interviewed on Radio Monte Carlo, called for "the re­spect of the law and public or­der," adding "I wish people didn't confuse the right to demonstrate with rioting." 
Conservative President Jacques Chirac announced the resumption of testing shortly after he was elected in May. 
Executive Taib!atim! 
Fully e<miPr>ed RV will handle all 
your tail2atin2 needs: •SetuP •Food • •Bevera2es •SleePin.ll • 
Students. let Your Parents know! 
Call 272-4257 after 5:00. 
All 2ames available! 
Associated Press 
VILLEURBANE, France 
A car bomb exploded in front of a Jewish school Thursday and injured 14 peo­ple, but a faulty school bell had kept the 700 children inside and none was killed. 
The explosion in this Lyon suburb was the sixth in a series of bombings or attempt­ed bombings in France since late July and the first car bomb in France since 1982. 
Children screamed, parents wept and dense black smoke swirled in front of the school. But the three breathless words on everyone's lips were ones of relief: "It's a miracle." 
The bomb was timed to go off at the moment the chil­dren leave school in the after­noon, but a tardy bell delayed their exit by two minutes. Police said this saved dozens of lives. 
Interior Minister Jean-Louis Debre said the bombing ap­peared to be linked to the other recent attacks. Nuts. bolts and fragments of a gas canister -the same compo­nents used to make the recent bombs -were found at the scene of Thursday's bombing, authorities said. 
Algerian Muslim militants who have threatened France for its support of the military­backed government in its for­mer colony are prime sus­pects in the attacks, authori­ties say. 
Police said they detained a man seen running away with two others just before the at­tack. No one immediately claimed responsibility for the bombing in Villeurbane, about 270 miles southeast of Paris. 
Among the 14 injured were three adults and three chil­dren who inhaled smoke. Six people were hospitalized, and 

~·············································~ 
Every Tuesday Evening The 1st
One Hour, 7:00 -8:00 p.m. Effective September 12, 1995 
The Conference Room of Campus Ministry Office Badin Hall 
Fr. AI D'Alonzo, CSC-Director 
Room 120 Bring your ot.Un Bihfe or one t.Uiff he provided 
Law School 
For more information, 
All Juniors & Seniors Should Attend 
call631-5242 or 631-5955 
Everyone Welcome !
ALL STUDENTS ARE WELCOME! 
\.............................................._, 



Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
The state is taking a dimmer view of reckless drivers and is speeding ahead with changes that could strip more motorists of their licenses. 
. The first revision since. 1984 of the point system for moving violations reflects legislation and areas of growing concern such as railroad-auto colli­sions. They are expected to take effect Nov. 1. 
While affecting all of the state's 4 million licensed dri­vers, the actual targets of the new system are motorists who pay little heed to auto safety rules, says Alvin Hayes, a spokesman for the Bureau of Motor Vehicles. 
"Most drivers won't be af­fected because most drivers, if they are cited for anything, are typically cited for speeding 20 miles above the speed limit," said Hayes. 
"It's a very small proportion of the driving population that engages in seriously negligent behavior." 
Under the new point system, several new violations will be added to the list of infractions 
. ReeSports 
Bl 1'1·111111 .
··' : ......... 
.-.3·-~· '~~ 
Faeility Info.. • Upemuing Enmts • Game Delays 
IAZZMAN's 
GRILL & BAR 
525 N. Hill Street 
presents: 
•
LIVE BANDS-FRIDAY SEPT. • 
•Upper Level: Playing Alternative/Original 
Music Featuring: Paranoid De/uzions & Guest 
•Lower Level: Reggae Music 
Featuring: Culture Riddem 
•Guest DJ's Playing Between Band Breaks $3.00 Admission 
SPECIAL SURPRISE CAMPUS BAND-SAT. SEPT. 9 
•Lower Level: Former members of the Big Earl Band 
•Upper Level: Super 70's 
Doors Open at 8 p.m.: Come Early and Save $1.00 With This Ad Presented at Door Before 11 :00 pm 
cutor and traffic safety experts made the recommendations after studying the frequency of accidents and their primary causes. State officials hope the changes will lower the number of traffic fatalities. 
Friday, September 8, 1995 
Son of ND 'Horseman' pleads guilty to fraud 
Associated Press 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. 
The son of one of the Four Horsemen of Notre Dame was sentenced to two years in prison after pleading guilty to mail fraud and filing false in­come tax returns. 
Elmer Layden Jr., 65, was sentenced Tuesday in U.S. Dis­trict Court, assistant U.S. Attor­ney David Capp said. 
Judge James Moody also fined Layden $80,000 and ordered him to spend three years on probation after he's released from prison. 
Moody imposed the prison term on the mail fraud charges and probation term on the tax charges, Capp said. 
Layden, who pleaded guilty in 1993 for filing the false returns in 1985 and 1986, must report to prison Nov. 1. Sentencing was delayed because of a heavy court schedule, a change of judge and Layden's health. 
The charges stem from Lay-den's insurance business and his ownership of an offshore company in the Caribbean called National Assurance Co. The government saW:l the in­surance company was essen­tially "a house of cards" and that Layden benefited person­ally while putting a number of his insured clients at risk. 
"Fortunately, his activities were stopped before the cards crumbled," Capp said. "Nobody incurred a major loss." 
A grand jury indictment re­turned in 1992 accused Layden of using the U.S. mail to create false insurance policies, of mis­representing his ownership in the offshore company and de­frauding Lake County of insur­ance premiums. 
Layden is the son of Elmer Layden Sr., the Four Horsemen fullback in the 1920s and coach of the Irish from 1934-42. 
Elmer Layden Jr. also played football briefly at Notre Dame in the late 1940s and graduat­ed in 1952. 



VIEWPOINT 
Friday, September 8, 1995 page9 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
John Lucas 
Managing Editor Bwiness Manager 
Elizabeth Regan joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... john Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ......................)en Mackowiak Spons Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. jacqueline Moser Accent Edimr ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor .................................. Rob Finch Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It docs not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institudon. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the amhors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor /Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.1@nd.edu 6enerallnformation 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• IAM Nor A Poneo PLANT 
Cancer takes the life of another Family member 
I
want to write today about a man promise which the law will enforce. To whom most of you did not have the Professor Murphy, promises were privilege of knowing. His name was important. He looked to his faith, and
Law School still mourning loss 
Edward Murphy, and he was a professor he saw God making promises to Israel, at the law school l'or 40 or 50 years. It's and, through Christ, a promise to all strange for me to think it, but my class people -promises that can never be re­
ofprofessor Edward Murphy 
-graduating this year -will be the voked. last class of Notre Dame Law School stu­Human promises are also important, dents ever to have had Professor first thoughts, as the graduate of a pub­school that Professor Murphy's cancer because they embody something Murphy for Contracts. lic high school, was that my class was had returned. But the day after I heard uniquely human, mainly our will to do, 
Contracts, you are probably thinking, full of "brown-nosers"). it, I couldn't help noticing that all was or not to do, something. To "keep our sounds about as exciting as watching However, somehow Professor Murphy not well with him. He was still smiling, world" in a contract is to be honest and mud dry. As taught by sgme professors, communicated to us that he wanted us but, if you watched upright, as a Christian 
lyou m,ght be right. IJ'ut ~k any :JL law to ask him questions. Not the "will this closely, you could see should be. 
student about Contracts, and I'd be will­be on the exam" type questions, but grimaces appear on his I think that Professor 
ing to bet that you will get a different real, substantive questions. Sometimes face, and then disap­'But what made Murphy's perception of 
answer. You see, Professor Murphy he would answer you (if you wanted an pear. He was in pain. him great was the importance of 
made Contracts answer) but more He was living day in Contracts to human life
that he was right about 
more than just a often, he'd start and day out with pain, was what impelled him good course. And with, "so what and I had never real­Contracts and right to put forth such an it seems somehow you're saying is," ized it. effort to teach untold
about its relation to 
important to me to and all of a sudden, Ithink in order to be a generations of law try to explain why. you'd realize that good professor, you our lives. He used school students. His My first thought you'd been advo­need to love teaching, enthusiasm, his teach­
Charles Roth 
Contracts to teach us 
was that Professor cating some philo-and you need to treat ing ability, his kind­Murphy was a sophical position your students well, and something important ness, and his knowl­good teacher you'd hardly heard you need the ability to about life, something edge of the subject because he made of. I think I can make class interesting. were what made him a
especially important 
class interesting. honestly say, I But to be a great good teacher. Professor Murphy rarely lectured, and never saw him embarrass anyone. teacher, I think there's for lawyers. I think it But what made him instead used a combination of the "So­When he was done with you, you one more step. Great great was that he was 
can be summarized in 
cratic method" (used by lesser men to couldn't know definitively whether teachers not only know right about Contrach torture Jaw students) and volunteer you'd raised a good point, or he'd just (and love) the material one word: honesty. and right about its re­class participation. made something interesting out of your they teach, but they lation to our lives. He
His teaching was effec­
I
think we've all had class participation dumb question. must understand how it used Contracts to teach classes that, while sometimes interest­I'm not sure when I realized that relates to the rest of tive because his words us something impor­ing, didn't teach us much of anything. Professor Murphy's treatment of stu­life. This, I am con­corresponded to the tant about life, some­Not with Professor Murphy. He knew dents was directly related to his love of vinced, was Professor thing especially impor­the course so well that if you said some­teaching, but, once I realized it, it Murphy's secret. way he lived his life.' tant for lawyers. I thing wrong, not only had he heard it 20 became for me an indisputable point. Professor Rice wrote think it can be summa­times before, but he saw where you had Now, maybe I'm less patient than most, an Observer column in which he dis­rized in one word: honesty. His teach­gone astray, and then he'd coax you but it's got to be tough to listen day after cussed Professor Murphy's faith and pol­ing was effective because his words cor­back with a few questions onto some day to answer student questions that itics. I don't know anything about responded to the way he lived his life. logical path. What a teacher he was! you've heard every year for 40 years. Professor Murphy's politics, and what I Professor Murphy taught virtue to law But then, on second thought, I won­He did, and I think he actually liked it. knew of his faith was mostly that he students learning Contracts; it's a d~red if Professor Murphy's greatness But what impresses me -what seems started class by saying the Our Father. rare teacher indeed who can do that. lay in the way he treated his students incredible to me __.: is that, while he was However, he did share with us enough He will be missed. ' with respect and kindness. At first, I teaching us, Professor Murphy was of his view of life that we could under­thought it was strange when I noticed dying of cancer. stand why he thought that Contracts five or six students going down after I don't remember exactly when the should matter to human beings. Charles Roth is a third year law stu­class to talk to him (I must admit my rumors started going through the law A contract, he taught us, is just a dent. 
• 000NESBURY 
BUT IT~ NOT UK& !T5 TH& 
ffll? OF 7H& WORt/? IF IT 
W/39N'TM.RI< aJT. H&tL,!F J, J. ANI?I !XJN'TMAKe 17; MAY8&1'U. COM&8Aa<ANI? 
taJK. YOU Uf'i OKAY~ 
GARRY TRUDEAU  
UM... THANK5 FOR 7H& /.OVUYOFFeR. Z£1<&, EJUTIh-f MAR­RJW. \  50/A/HAT? 50WA9 J.J..' \_  I !<NEW YOU'llGeT Jt3A/..(){)5! MAY.%' W&:HJ(JIJ) JUST(jJ,  

• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Legislated language is the enemy of thought." 
-F:rank Bardacke 
VIEWPOINT
page 10 Friday, September 8, 1995 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Relationship turning from love/hate to love 
F
Dear Editor: divinity school here. or the last year and two summers I With crucifixes in every classroom, have been studying theology at Notre chapels in every dorm, and the gilded Dame. In addition to my classroom Mary overlooking the entire campus, studies, there is much I have learned everything and everyone at Notre Dame about Notre Dame simply through the seems to permeate and respond to the process of osmosis, just talking with Christian message. If you flip through people and breathing the Catholic atmo­Harvard Divinity School's course cata­sphere of the place. logue, you will find that nearly half the 
Being Anglican, I know how it might courses offered do not even pertain to feel to be a minority here. Granted the -the Christian faith, let alone the Catholic Episcopal Church is like kissing cousins Church. with the Catholic It might be that the Church, "but every image I present of Sunday when I go to Notre Dame is slightly Mass and must remain 'Notre Dame has skewed, seeing that I seated during commu­always been circulate in theological nion, I am painfully groups. But I do not
Catholic, and always 
aware of the fact that see Notre Dame suffer­I am not a fully inte­will be. But there is an ing from the same trend grated member of the of secularization that
increasing tolerance 
largely Catholic stu­has affected most of dent body. and openness to people this country's So I can identify 
of other denominations, 
with Cristiane Likely's universities. I still con­tendency to describe other ethnic back­sider it an oxymoron to her relationship with hear of a Notre Dame
grounds, other faiths, 
Notre Dame as one of girl "on the pill." 
and even those of no 
A
love/hate, but "mostly Each summer the the-hate" (Aug. 30). For a faith at all.' ology department here member of a minority swells and fills with vis­group, one's relation-iting scholars, priests, Alas, I thought, gone were the days of welcomes minorities is an indication ship can be more like ministers, monks, nuns, priests in black robes, in were the days that the University does not desire a a roller coaster ride where one can only parish workers, and other laypeople of "See you in Hell" t-shirts. Lacking the homogenous student body. But neither take so much, than that of the prover­interested in developing further their nerve to tell him I found his shirt offen­should this action be misinterpreted as a bial Stairway to Heaven. relationship with God. sive, I gave myself over in thought to the desire to break free of its traditional s such, I am constantly concerned On one occasion this summer, many of issue. I asked myself, is this a sort of Catholic moorings. with my relationship with the us gathered to watch the movie "Rudy." symbol, signifying the increasing the It is simply a result of the current the­University and the Catholic Church in I actually longed for the days when the secularization of Notre Dame? ological awareness that God's graceg!3neral, gauging frequently my emo­priests walked about campus dressed in Yes and no. Notre Dame has always extends to the whole human race and tions and reactions to the phenomena their clericals. Perhaps it is the conser­been Catholic, and always will be. But that all are called to God's love, regard­that impinge upon me while on campus. vative element in me, perhaps it was the there is an increasing tolerance and less of race, religious or ethnic back­I have visited and interviewed at divin­desire to grasp more tangibly the visible openness to people of other denom­ground, and nationality. It is for this ity schools and seminaries across the presence of God amongst us. inations, other ethnic backgrounds, reason and others, that my relationshipcountry, trying to find a place that best 1 A Thatever the case, a few days later I other faiths, and even those of no faith with Notre Dame is increasingly becom­fulfilled my hunger for God. But V V was walking through the library, at all. This is not necessarily a sign of ing less one of hate and more one of nowhere have I found a school like trying to find a place to study, when I secularization, but a necessary step in love. . 6L . 9: .. · .B1 11 Notre Dame. Whereas the University of crossed paths with one of the workers the ecumenical process of the Church's Chicago houses their divinity school in installing the overhead plumbing for the reaching out to all, regardless of our only one small building, I feel like the sprinkling system. On his black t-shirt differences. It is a recognition of the DAVID GORDON entire University of Notre Dame is the was emblazoned a skeleton carrying a fact that diversity can still exist within Graduate Student in Theology 
London Program 
Column an 'embarrassment' 
Dear Editor: His article depicts the London Program as an un­
am writing in response to Chris Kratovil's article academic semester-long vacation. He may very well l about the College of Arts and Letters' London believe this to be true, but his colorful account has Program, which appeared in The Observer on no basis in fact. If I were on the London Program at Monday, Sept. 4, 1995. As a Spring 1993 Graduate this moment, I would be outraged at his grossly of the London Program, I feel compelled to com­puerile description of his classmates and their activ­ment on Kratovil's vapid and juvenile article about ities. the London Program, which was an embarrassment In truth, the London Program offers its students both to the faculty and staff of the London Program top rate facilities and access to renown British and to the journalistic standards of The Observer. faculty. During my semester in London, I studied 
Kratovil's article, which begins with the premise the politics of Northern Ireland under Dr. Brendan that London and South Bend are indistinguishable O'Leary, a frequent television commentator on the because both have "wet weather, bad food, and Northern Ireland conflict and an advisor of the warm beer," presents his rationale for attending the Labour Party's Shadow Cabinet. Dr. O'Leary's London Program and his impressions of the London course culminated in a meeting and round-table Program itself. I will comment first on his rationale discussion at Parliament with the Labour Party's for attending the London Program because it pro­Shadow Secretary for Northern Ireland Affairs. vides a brilliant illustration of why one should not Certain classes provide students in the London study abroad. Program with tickets to critically acclaimed operas 
F
In his own words, Kratovil has gone to London for at the Royal Opera House and theatrical and musi­two reasons: "I won't be considered fully adult until cal performances at the South Bank Complex and at I've had a European adventure, and I'm sick of the Barbican Centre. Unlike Kratovil, I was never South Bend." These motives are the product of an under the impression that I spent a semester "in immature student unworthy of the privilege of some sub-basement in DeBartolo." studying abroad. The living conditions for London Program stu­oreign study is intended to deepen and enrich dents are spectacular, especially in light of the loca­the academic career of an already mature stu­tion. Students in the London Program live in flats dent. The London Program, in particular, seeks to literally a stone's throw from Kensington Palace and familiarize its students with the literature, history, Hyde Park. and culture of the United Kingdom, and, to that end, Students usually walk across Hyde Park to the it offers its students the rare privilege of studying, classroom building on Albemarle Street which is, often first hand, British art, architecture, history, itself, across from Green Park from Buckingham politics, and literature. Palace. Even the mundane activity of walking to 
If you lack the maturity to appreciate the import class, through the middle of London, is imbued with of such a privilege before you arrive in London, you, a magic that has endured in my heart and in the like Kratovil, will leave London no more enriched hearts of my London classmates. for your experiences. Go abroad because your stud­In the end, I feel sorry for Kratovil. His hack­ies draw you there. London and its environs have neyed impressions of London and the London drawn students from all over the world since the Program are typical of an American boor abroad. Middle Ages, and it endures as a student's city be­Please do not think that they are typical of the cause on every London street and in all directions London Program and its students, past or present. offers tangible examples of transcendent genius, wisdom, and beauty. 
Kratovil's jejune reflections about the London MARK CAWLEY Program, in particular present a second, and more NO Class of 1994 & First-year law student serious charge that must be publicly repudiated. O'Hara-Grace Graduate Residences machine gun, the caption underneath reading "See you in Hell." 





Friday, September 8, 1995 The Observer• WEEKEND page 11 



from the home office in beautiful, but rainy, South Bend, IN... 1. Car. Probably a good idea. A/C and tape deck recommended. Wind shield wipers if you're going to Purdue. 2. Map. Always helpful. Don't lose it and don't let driving companions tell you, "Don't worry. I know how to get there." 3. Duct tape. Tape ducts, duct tapes. A myriad of uses, one more useful than the next. Tape beverage containers to hat, add crazy straw and drink. 4. Umbrella. Wet is not fun. 5. The Shirt. Annoy opposing team with obvious Irish unity. 6. Music. Nothing is more unexciting than a roadtrip with only one cassette (which is usually Nelson's greatest hits). 7. Hammer. Hammer in the morning. Hammer in the evening. Just get hammered. 8. Crunch 'n Munch and licorice whips. Everybody loves 'em. Low fat and plentiful. (Also good to feed small animals when waiting for tow-truck because of flat tire.) 9. Beer and other beverages to add extra spice and variety to your trip. 10. Pillow. Don't leave home without it. And like our grandfathers used to tell us, never pass up the opportunity to pee or sleep.  

Location: Founded: 1869 Enrollment: 34,489 (fallt Nickname: Boilermakers ·colors: ·Old Gold and B_.·· ..
!'10""!...· 
Song: Hail Purdue
-
Mascot: Bo~lermaker Sp~t Conference: Big Ten liation: NCAA, Divisio 

~ 
·, 
'... ~--' ' ...\
.. ' . 
0 0
Pursuln~g PurdU·e
t1 . . •• 
r-----------------------------------------------~
How to 
(the definitive guide) 
roadtrip. • • 
By Kristin Doyle 
Accent Writer 
S
aturday's tragic loss to Northwestern has undoubtedly dimmed the flames of spirit within the hearts of many, if not most, Fighting Irish fans. But, as Notre Dame students, we have a special responsibility to remain enthusiastic and loyal to our boys in blue and gold. In my experience, there is no better way to show support than to initiate yourself into one of Notre Dame's least known societies, The Roadtrippers. 
It only takes one highway trek to an away game to become a member of the football team's personal entourage. While home games secure a place for the passive fan, true roadtrippers take on the responsibility to cheer their hearts out as members of the minority. Their ultimate goal is to make as much (or more) noise come from a single section as comes from the rest of the opposi­tion's stadium. 
Tomorrow morning a small army of students, veteran road­trippers. and first-timers alike will pile into cars and buses to make the two-hour journey to Purdue. They will remember sto­ries of the triumphs and mishaps of roadtrips past, and hope that for better or worse, this trip will be one to remember. 
In order for a vehicle to qualify as a roadtrip-mobile, it must contain more passengers than it can safely hold as well as all of the traditional tailgating supplies. Die-hards may crown it with a cheesy homemade golden dome and will proudly attach "Go Irish" and "Purdue or Bust" signs in the windows. Along the highway, other Irish fans, seized with a renewed sense of broth­erhood, will honk their support and best wishes. 
P
re-game festivities are always a highlight at away games. Roadtrippers can meet up with other roadtrippers and set up a gypsy camp surrounded by curious Purdue fans. Many ND alumni and parents will also attend the game since tickets were made widely available. This is a plus as these fans usually have lavish spreads of food. As usual, it will be easy to snag a few hot dogs off the habachi of a friendly parent or former Domer. 
Although the devastation of last week's loss may shake the confidence of some roadtrippers, they can certainly stroll into the stadium with a fair degree of nonchalance as the Irish have decisively beaten the Boilermakers for the past decade. This will not, however, translate into a lack of enthusiasm, for it is at game time that the roadtrippers' excitement will reach a fever pitch as their job as the moral support system for the team begins. Cheering ferociously and unceasingly for the entire game, they will sing the fight song until they are hoarse and each Irish touchdown will incur a small riot in the visitor's sec­tion. 
When the game is over and the Irish once again assert their domination, some fans will stay for post-game parties, but most will pack up and head back to school. The ride home will be a quieter one and an overwhelming sense of relief will accompany the first sighting of the Golden Dome. Roadtrippers often gain a newfound pride and appreciation for the physical campus upon their return. The institutional concrete edifices of Purdue offer a sharp contrast to the sprawling lawns and rich architecture of home. Unloading wearily, our devoted travelers, armed with a new batch of stories and memories, will return satisfied at a job well done. 
page 12 The Observer• WEEKEND Friday, September 8, I 995 
WUo~IT~ nw ~~~~~9 wUo~IT~ nw ~CIDn 
Zzzz 
If you can find the Chauncey Hill Mall (a strip mall) that's the place to be! It's in the village area. (Although the staff at Purdue's paper does warn us that there is not a lot to do in Lafayette.) Look for Utopia. It's a SO's diner with interesting omelets, burgers and shakes and a big juke box. Garcia's Pizza by the Pan is also in the mall and has great pizza and breadsticks. Sorrento's is another good choice. It's at 601 Sagamore Parkway. Try The Pub at 407 Union or Checkerboard at 1521 Kossuth. CW Dandy's is at 406 Sagamore Parkway South. Kazoos is at 304 West State Street. 
Purdue Area Hotels 
Budget Inn of America. Interstate 65 and State Road 26 East, Lafyette, 317-447-7566 Days Inn of Lafayette. 400 Sagamore Parkway South, Lafayette, 317-447-4131 Devon Plaza. 2371 North 26th Street, Lafayette, 317­742-7394 Dollar Inn. 4301 State Rd. 26 East at Interstate 65, Lafayette, 317-447-5551 Family Inns. 1920 Nort~westerp. Avenue, W.est ,_.,,1Lafayette, 800-251-9752 Fairfield Inn. 4000 St. Rd 26 East, Lafayette, 317-449­0083 Holiday Inn. Interstate 65 North and State Road 43 Exit 178, West Lafayette, 317-567-2511. Holiday Inn Express. 201 Frontage Road at 1-55 and SR 26, Lafayette, 317-449-4808 Knights Inn. 4110 State Rd. 26 East at Interstate 65, Lafayette, 317-447-5811 Ramada Inn. 4221 State Road 26 East at Interstate 65, Lafayette, 800-228-2828 Radisson. 4343 State Rd. 26 East at Interstate 65, Lafayette, 800-333-3333 Red Roof Inn. 4201 State Rd. 26 East at Interstate 65, Lafayette, 317-448-4871 Sagamore Inn. 2200 Sagamore Parkway North, Lafayette, 317-447-3111 Travelodge. 200 Brown Street, West Lafayette, 317­743-8253 University Inn Conference Center. 3001 Northwestern Avenue, West Lafayette, 317-463-5511 
Mmmm. • • 


Friday, September 8, 1995 The Observer•WEEKEND page 13 

water as the clouds move into what is, at least for the moment, a sun-drenched beach. 
After getting a taste of what Monet is all about, viewers enter the fourth gallery which contains Japanese woodblock prints similar to those that the French artist owned. In these prints you can see some of the techniques that Monet adopted for his own work. Basing compositions on broad spans of one predominant color is one rather obvious distinction in his works. 
The exhibition also highlights all of the various trips Monet took throughout Europe, from painting the sea from the French island of Belle-lie to observing the snow-covered fields of Argenteuil to reproducing his private gardens and water-lily ponds. The result of these trips is several series that sometimes depict the same scene seven or eight times but in different conditions. And somehow, he manages to make seven paintings of wheatstacks look different by painting them at sunrise, at sunset, in the snow. or in the afternoon sunlight. 
But it doesn't end at the wheatstacks, as seen in the paintings of London's houses of Parliament and the sea from Normandy and Belle-lie. He once said, "I know very well that really to paint the sea, one must observe it every day, at every hour, and 


one 

1840-1926 
The Art Institute ofChicago showcases the master's work in a collection of 159 paintings and drawings 

By DAN CICHALSKI Assistant Accent Ediwr 
W
alking through the Art Institute of Chicago's current exhibition, "Claude Monet, 1840-1926," is like taking a walk through time. All other plans, responsibilities, and deadlines are, for the moment, forgotten. For two hours, you find yourself in nineteenth-and early twentieth-century Europe, looking down from the hills of Bordighera. Italy, or across the English Channel from the shores of Normandy. There are no paved roads, no cars, and no elevated trains. For two hours, you see the world from the eyes of Claude Monet. 
The month-old exhibition has garnered praise form across the country and attracted viewers like a magnet. Perhaps because, with 159 works, this is the 
Claude Monet, 1840-1926 will be on display at The Art Institute of Chicago through November 26. The museum is open ty1onday,. Wednesday, Thursday and Friday from 
10:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m; Tuesday from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m; Saturday from 10 
a.m. to 5 p.m; Sunday and holidays noon to 5 p.m. For more information, call (800) 929-5800. Tickets cost $10 Monday through Thursday and $12.50 ­Friday through Sunday. Advance purchase is rec­ommended. There is a $2.50 charge for phone orders. 
largest Monet exhibition ever assembled. Or maybe it's the fact th~t it's only around until November 26 and will not leave Chicago, except when the paintings are all returned to New York, Japan, Denmark, France, Canada, Germany, Omaha, or private collections. Whatever the attraction, aficionados are flocking to Michigan Avenue to see the life of Monsieur Monet. 
Everything from early paper works and primary sketches through the famous "Water Lilies" is rep­resented. Arranged chronologically, the exhibit is divided into the various periods of Monet's life. Each room has a biographical description of the point in his life that the viewers are about to see, hinting at what is to come. Such an arrangement allows you to follow the progression and changes in his technique-changes influenced by other art or brought on by Monet's deteriorating eyesight as he aged. 
The first three galleries contain paintings from the 1860s and 70s. Not a portrait artist, Monet instead saw the whole scene. Rather than strive for a perfect expression on the subject's face, he makes you look at the whole picture-the sun as it falls across the trees, the tall meadow grasses bending in the wind, or boats reflected in the shimmering water. It is in this way that Monet is a master. His ability to capture the feeling of the moment comes through in virtually every work. 
In viewing "The Beach at Sainte-Adresse," you can almost feel the coastal winds coming off the from the same place." 

After four­teen rooms and roughly ninety min­utes, you find yourself look­ing at the end of Monet's career-and at his most popular works. Sixteen of the dozens of paintings of water lilies are collected into one room toward the end of the exhibition. Everyone who enters the gallery lets out a gasp and opens their eyes a little wider as they look across the vast gallery. The "Water Lilies" are to Monet what the Sistine Chapel is to Michelangelo and the "Mona Lisa" is to da Vinci-a single exemplary work that will forever be associated with each artist. 
The final room contains some of the larger water lily paintings, the murals, lncluding three of the panels from the circular masterpiece normally displayed at New York's Museum of Modern Art. Just before World War I, Monet decided to decorate a circular room with paintings of the water lilies in his pond. The panels are 6 1/2 by 13 feet and a bench is placed in a convenient location, allowing you to sit for a moment and appreciate the view. 
Howeve4 attending the e~ibition is not exactly part of a relaxing Sunday outing. With the imm®se popularity of the show, the Art Institute regulates the entrance of viewers, admitting 800 each hour plus museum members. The first few rooms are highly congested and make it difficult to stand back and get a broad view of any­thing. But the crowd thins out as you move along, especially if you bypass the recorded tour and mosey at your own pace. The $4 (or $3.50 for museum mem­bers) recording is worthwhile, but is in no way necessary to enjoy the art. 
Because of the volume of art lovers and the extent of the show, two hours is about the time it will take to meander through the seventeen rooms. That estimation does not include, however, the thirty-minute wait to enter the galleries. Once inside, though, those thirty minutes are forgotten and two hours goes by almost too quick­ly. There is, of course, the opportunity to turn back and get a second look at the selections that make a greater impression. A less crowded time to go would be dur­ing the week, especially after the summer vacation season ends. If time permits, head to the second floor of the museum and view the Impressionist collection. A few more Monet works are hidden there and allow you to compare his craft with that of some contemporaries like Van Gogh and Seurat. 
The show sells out frequently, so advance purchase of tickets is suggested. Prices for the exhibition are the highest ever for an Art Institute show at $10 Monday through Thursday and $12.50 Friday through Sunday. A $2.50 service charge is added to each ticket ordered over the phone. 
But don't let the price or the large crowds scare you away from what may prove to be one of the best exhibits of the decade. To do so would be allowing a rare opportunity to pass you by like a stranger in a crowd. 
Monet~s life 
•Nov. 
14, 1840. Born in Paris . 

•Late 
1862. Begins studying art in Paris 

•Feb. 
1867. Paints snowscapes in Argenteuil. 

•Jan. 
1877. Paints the Saint-Lazare train sta­tion in Paris. 

•Autumn 
1886. Paints the island of Belle-He. 

•Mid 
1891. Begins Poplars series. 

•Feb. 
1892. Begins work on his Roen Cathedral series. 

•Apr. 
1914. Begins to work on larger works like Water Lillies. 

•Autumn 
1922. Monet falls into depression. 

•Dec. 
5, 1926. Dies at the age of 86. 


-· 
.... 
.. 

,..-----------------­
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 8, 1995 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre _ Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from l2 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 


NOTICES 
Business oriented men and women. need TEXAS, USC, BC tkts NEED STUDENT TIX!!I ????TRADE???? DOES ANYONE AT NOTRE DAME Gain marketing ex-call Mike x4429 VANDY, OSU, and NAVY Seeking to trade 2 Vandy GA's EVER DATE??? perience and earn $'sat the 233-2289 lor 2 Texas GA's 
same time. Fit your schedule Need G.A. Tix to NO-Texas. Call call Jim/Stacie (614) 261-0056 A Lot more would if they went last Humor Artists: HA part time. call Ron 272-7147 Joe at 287-4561 before 10 p.m. I I ! HELP Ill HELP I I I year to the CREATVIE DATING Want to write, act, or display body Need 2 GA's for the Texas game. SEMINAR ..... LUCKY for you, BACK parts in sketch comedy? NEED NO-TEXAS GA I NEED 4 T EX A S GA's II Will pay $$$$'s. Call Tom X-1105. BY POPULAR DEMAND 
FOR RENT
Call Mark 271-1400 OR STUDENT TIX. x1755 PLEASE CALL x1755 Student Activities presents: mmarino@darwin.cc.nd.edu CALL DAVE 609-779-3876. Willing to trade two Navy G.A.s for or Alan at alaser@ NICELY DECORATED ROOMS I II HELP Ill HELP I I I Texas tickets. CREATIVE DATING SEMINAR 
FOR RENT. F-BALL WKNDS, NO DAD NEEDS TEXAS, USC & Tom WEDNESDAY Newly remodeled Bed and REASON. RATES, GREAT PURDUE GA'S. need 3 GA's 4 Vand. call x2855 634-1157 September 13 Breakfast located in Middlebury, 30 ATMOS., CONTIN. BRKFST, 2 219-422-6088. 8:00p.m. miles from campus. 5 rooms with MILES OFF-CAMPUS. CALL KIM ALUM NEEDS TEXAS GAs. CALL Need 4 G.A.s LA FORTUNE BALLROOM private baths, space available for 277-8340. 111!@1!@@1@\@@@!#$#@$$%$@ (313)420-1208 OR (212)250-6513 for any home game. football game wknds. 1-800-418-(DAY ONLY). Call Alison X2511. ---it entertains as it educates! 9487 2 BDRM HOME FOR RENT NEAR Larry needs you II -provides fresh, positive, upbeat 
CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES He needs your tickets tool NEED TX STU-TIX FOR NO Need WASHINGTON GAs badly, dating ideas while helping students SAVE THIS AD 272-6306 Looking for Navy G.A.s and VAndy GRAD!! HE'S RICH NOWI Big $, call Mike x1208 deal with today's issues WEEKEND ROOMS FOR GAs or student tix. JANINE -1549 N.D./S.M.C. VISITORS. HOMES FOR RENT NEAR ND Call 634-3593 if you can help him NEED 1 PURDUE TX. CALL CARY EXPERIENCED CHILD CARE 
5. MIN. FROM CAMPUSES 232-2595 out. Please help! I need 2 Vandy GAs @ 4-0993 Full time, Mon.-Fri.,ND/SMC area 219-277-2388 1#@#$@$%#@ @#@ @##@@ @#! for my parents.$ call x1337. References available 

-
Need a place to stay for the sum­1 Purdue Tix for Sale Call Rob Call287-0116 ACCOMMODATION mer? We are subletting for Mid­I NEED TEXAS AND USC GA'SI TRADE? 2 Vandy GAs lor 2 Texas, x1581 Englishwoman offers quiet accomo­May 96 through August 96 at PLEASE CALL SUZV AT X3729. call 4-1349 or 273-3924 RESIGN RESIGN dation near campus for College Park Condominiums. Call Just need 2 PURDUE tickets, call ND/SMC visitors. Call219-631· Sarah, Nicole, or Jen for details @ Need Student Booklets and GAs lor DESPERATE lor 4 usc gas Mark at x3360 Hey LOU-ser: 6072 day, 219-273-1751 evening. 273-1738. every game. and 4 washington gas $$$ Do Notre Dame, your players, asst. 
Call277-4755 call ruth x37 41 NEED 2 USC GA'S AND 4 TEXAS coaches, the fans and college foot­EARN THOUSANDS PROCESS­GA'S: CALL KEVIN 234-3468 ball a favor: ING MAIL. RUSH $1.00 AND 3 BDRM house, 5 min drive to NEEDED: 2 GA's for USC SASE TO: SUVON NO campus. $150/rm/mon. plus call4x4876 Need 2 BC GA's Need 1 GA or stud. tix for my little RESIGN RESIGN ENTERPRISES 34 MERWIN ST. utility costs. Call272-7376 call Nort x1609 bro to BC. Willing to pay $$$$$$ SUITE 1 NORWALK, CT 06850 Student needs Call Mike, x3459 Hey Golfers! 
HOUSE FOR RENT 2 tickets for USC game I need 2 Vandy GA'sl 1 mile from campus for DOMESICK parents Call Martha @ X4092 Help!! need a total of 8 GAs plus The Social Justice Forum is hosting StomperBoB $450 per month please call Bonnie at 634-3397 1 st. tix for Vanderbilt, Matt X-3931 a four person golf scramble on at Tim x1 059 or Nick x0546 with your tickets. In Need of 2 Vandy Tickets Tuesday Sept. 19, at the Notre JAZZMAN's Students or G.A.'s Will trade Navy GA's for Vand. Dame golf course. The scramble Rm available in 3 bdrm home 4 GAs need for Vanderbilt, 273-Will Pay Good Money GA's. Call Erin #4021 begins at 2:30 PM. Prizes will be This Saturday 1O:OOpm $240 inc. utilities. 5-min. drive. 3016 Call Tony @ x3530 given for the top teams. $15 per 
631-4809 or 232-7175. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ person. 4 person teams, but single Need GA's & Student Tx for USC. Need 4 Vandy tix. I NEED TEXAS STUDENT TICK· and double players are welcome. Call Rich at 277-4755 Call Kate 277-9414 ETS. WILL PAY GOOD MONEY Sign-ups in the Law School Lounge
ILOST & FOUND IIL..-_FO_R_SAL_E____. CALL CHRIS @239-8922 12-1 PM the week of Sept. 11-15. 
HELP WANTED: NEED TICKETS $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ LOST: MY DAILY (FRANKLIN) Awesome Tailgaterslll ND FIGHT­Win FABULOUS prizes, and help PLANNER. CALL SCOTT AT 288-ING IRISH conversion van! Runs I will do anything for USC GAs. 4 VANDY G.A.'S FOR SALE: TWO TICKET us help kids. 7261. Great, $1995, Call to see\232-9784 Money no object. BOOKLETS-MARRIED. LEAVE 
Call Sean x2153 MESSAGE 289-52-14 To: All Gay or Lesbian FOUND: A gold ring with other fea­Pontiac Sunbird 2000, 1984, 4 Dr, Brian x3692 Undergraduates at Notre Dame tures. Found last week, about automatic, air, tape deck. Very PAIR OF MARRIED STUD TRADE From: Campus Ministry August 29th between Stanford and good condition. Recent Goodyear NEED GA TICKETS FOR TEXAS­TIX BOOKLETS 4 sale I have 2 Vandy & 4 Navy. Any St. Michael's parking lot, by the tires, brakes, exhaust system. NO GAME. WILL PAY TOP DOL­call 273.0824 combination for 2 USC or 2 Texas. We invite you to join us and each 

... 
Infirmary. Call Francie at X4205 to 28 mpg. 90,000 mi. $1,350. LAR. {610)995-9671 Call Brian x3084 other to talk about your concerns identity. 291-3125, message or after 5. Need BC or USC GAs -Call Jess and questions regarding your sexu­
Need BC GAs 232-9784 @ X2785 Help! My lather will sell me into ality. ••All conversations confiden­I lost a sentimental gold chain 1985 Honda Hatchback slavery in Sri Lanka if I don't find tial** bracelet late last weeki! Please, if $1000/Best offer 708-957-1546 FOR SALE TICKETSIIII Student season tickets for sale. Call him Texas GA's. Please call found, call MARl at X29691 :( (Chicago) Ask lor Pete. New Tires G.A. S ALL GAMES 277-7876. Vanessa 273-2910. For more information please call: Thanks. & Brakes. ******* 272-7233111111111! Kate Barrett (1-5242), Fr. Bob 
PURDUE TIX 4 SALE HELP!! I need Air Force tickets! !II! Dowd, esc (1-7800 or 1-5056) or LOST! Gold/Black onyx ring on Fri. SONY CFD470 MEGABASS Dual $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ CHEAP 273-5295 Also Purdue, Ohio State, and any Fr. Tom Gaughan, CSC (1-6777). 9/1 in back of Apt.1635 Turtle Tape/CO/ AM-FM boombox Former NO student needs SIX home GA's. Emily @ 273-9840. Creek. Great sentimental value. 15mo old/used rarely Texas GAs. Name your price. NO ALUM NEEDS 2/4 OSU TIX Imitated, but never duplicated. The Reward. Carolyn 271-2314. $186/obo call 289· 8917 Call Ryan at (608) 849-7702 GA'S PREF. CALL MIKE 212-574-Need 2 G.A Tixs for Vandy game! Original LESBIAN, GAY & BISEXU­
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 1071 Please call x4021. AL Group of ND/SMC. Confidential LOST: Top ten football team PURDUE TICKET FOR SALE Support Group meets 2nd and 4th Last seen 10/1/94. If found, please 273-4689 WILL TRADE 4 USC GA + PRKG Need 2 GA's & 3 Stud tix 4 Texas I HAVE VANDERBILT STUD TIX Thursdays of thjj month. Call287­call Mike @ 1-8091 FOR 4 TX GA. 708-948-8293 game -Reggie x4297 FOR SALE 1-6696 6665 for info. 
NEED A ONE WAY TO SAN JOSE? 1 ticket from WILL TRADE GA TICKETS TO TRADE-2 BCNandblt GAs for 2 NEED 1-7 TEXAS GA'S. X1899 HEY KATIE-YOUR'E A TURKEY! 
WANTED 
Chicago to San Jose, Ca VANDY, TX, OR BC FOR USC/NO USC/Texas GAs-Call 219-273-·MFP "INTERCEPTOR" 
#4-4144 TIX. WILL ALSO PAY TOP$ FOR 8379 HELP! HELP! HELP! Sales Help Needed -Long Distance USC/NO TIX. CALL BOB 818-793-I need 2 G.A.'s to ANY game after ''THE NIGHT RIDER .... THAT IS Service needs Reps to sell to stu­'85 Shadow 500 0412 I NEED TXS GA'S MEGAN X3890 Fall Break. Will pay ANY price!! I HIS NAME. THINK OF HIM dents and their families. Can be ding in tank call Scott @ x1105 ..WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE done part time from room or apart­runs great BC TICKETS NEEDED. PLEASE I NEED GA'S MEGAN X3890 NIGHT SKY." ment. Potential for immediate com­$800 CALL KATIE@ 219-271-9856. NEED 2 VANDY TIX missions, management bonuses 233-5288 THANK YOU\ BC BC BC BC BC BC BC BC BC Looth is busy playing Loops aQd long terl"(l (esidual income. We I need BC GAs ... call x3975 STUDENT OR GA offer tremendous value to the cus­USC TICKETS NEEDED, STU­BC BC BC BC BC BC BC BC BC WILL PAY$$$$ anne V.-what's up with the mid­
TICKETS
tomer and training and support for DENT OR GA. CALL KATIE AT FOR BROTHER AND VANDY night run, babe? our Reps. Call Mike at 616-521-219-271-9856. THANK YOUI GA FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE GIRLFR!ED 3620. CALL 2719464 OR 2887162 
A DEVOTED IRISH FAN NEEDS Need 2 Vandy GA's CALL DOUG @ X-3686 College Football Hall of Fame Students wanted to promote the GA'S TO ANY/ALL x0652 2GAs4 Sale: Needs Volunteers most killer Spring Break Trips on HOME/AWAY GAMES. NW,Vandy,UT,Navy $ I need 2 Texas Ga's for my Dad$ Call 235-9999 campus. Earn high $$ commissions 219-232-0061,24 HAS. 271-2837. $ Call Kate at 2900 and free trips! I Must be outgoing NO student needs 6 Texas and 2 Prayer to the Holy Spirit and creative. Call immediately 1-Navy tickets for family driving Need 2 B.C. GA's Holy Spirit, Thou who make me see
PERSONAL
800-SURFS-UP. TICKET-MART, INC. REALLY far to get here -call Greg:273-8629 everything and show me the way to 
WANTED PLEASE call Kerry @ 634-2925 reach my ideal. You who give me Part time work for graduate student GA'S FOR ANY/ALL JAZZERCISE the in electrical engineering. For more HOME/AWAY NO GAMES. Need 4 GA 's for Texas Game I HAVE GA TICKETS FOR TEXAS, divine gilt to forgive and forget info. call Dennis Cooper 237·9665. BUY* SELL *TRADE need GOOD seats. VANDY AND NAVY .... IF YOU ITS A FUN WAY TO GET FIT the wrong that is done to me and 
(219) 232-0058 • 24 HAS. Call Kristen 277-3019 HAVE TICKETS FOR USC AND & STAY THAT WAY. who are in all instances of my life Sitter needed $4.50/hr. Must drive. WANT TO MAKE A TRADE ..... VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. with me. I, in this short dialogue, Non-smoker. Mon. 12-5:30 + 1 Fall Call Tom at: 4-3893 CALL 277-0111 FOR MORE INFO. want to thank you for everything weekend. Kids ages 6,8,& 14. 277-NEED8TEXGA and confirm once more that I never 9661 BUSINESSMAN NEEDS 2or4 BILLY 273-4212 Hey, you! I know you're interested want to be separated from You no 

NO SEASON TICKETS ANY OR HEY in Notre Dame Student Players. matter how great the material WANTEDII ALL GAMES. OHIO.ST. $$$ NEED UT, USC, AND BC I Need Vandy and Texas tickets Our first meeting of the year is com­desires may be. I want to be with Authentic N.D. Stadium seat andWASHINGTON A MUST GA'S, WILL PAY BIG CASH OR call239-7959 ask lor Mike ing up soon. Mark your calendars: You and my loved ones in Your per­offered by Athletic Dept. PLEASE HELP IF YOU CAN ........ TRADE VANDY GA'S CALL ERIC petual glory. Amen I DESPERATELY need to buy one 2771659 OR NICK@ 232-1726$$$ Need 2 Vandy GA's (9/18/95, 6 p.m., Notre Dame Person must pray this 3 consecu­
• but they're SOLD OUT! Please call Jon @ X1103 Room, LaFortune). tive PLEASE HELP MEl $$$!! STU. TIX 4 SALE days without stating one's wish. Call: Chris Carroll (Class Of '91) I NEED TIXS TO ALL HOME GOOD SEAT(S) I NEED BC GA'S & STUD TIX! All are welcome. Keep the faith After 3rd day, your wish will be M-F 8-5cst GAMES.272-6306 CALLX0516 CALL JOHN @ 234-5771 and love alive. Be a part of the granted (708)325-8700 action. I'll see you there. no matter how difficult it Thanks. NEED TEXAS GA'S. I NEED one PURDUE ticket. I NEED 2 BC GA'S!I! may be. Promise to publish this 

.. 
CALL ALISON 1-800-431-0010, Contact Greg at (634) 4-3889. CALL KELLY x4801 Needed: 2-3 more people for fall soon as your favor has been grant­Part-time nanny needed. $7/hr. EXT. 8796. break rafting/camping .trip. ed. 2:30-6:30 any aft. Must drive. Call NEEDED: Tickets to TEXA$, U$C NEED TEXAS GAs-WILL PAY$$ 1 day raft. down Gauley River, 
257-1411 evens. Wealthy Alum needs tix for all home or any other home game. Please please call Charlie x2243 W.Va.-5day camp TN. If interested, CRAZV SUE'S USED FURNITURE 

games. Brett 272-7223 call273-9710. call277-9682 ext. 635. & EYE GLASSES Earn $2500 & Free Spring Break !!@VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY@!\ Trips! Sell 8 Trips & Go Freel Best Desperately need USC tickets!!! WILL BUY TEXAS TICKETS 817-WANTED Kiddo, Trips & Prices! Bahamas, Cancun, 3 GA's or 2 GA's and 1 Student 738-5109 Stacy needs Tickets to Vanderbilt! 2 WILD tennis players of intermed­The big day has finally arrived. Jamaica, Florida! Spring Break Please call Chris at 288-7843. GAs are ideal. Help her out and iate ability to play doubles w/2 jr. Get baracha and have fun. Oh, and Travell1-800-678-6386 Need 2 Vanderbilt GA's she will pay you the big bucks! babes. Call Steffi al'id Monica at good luck with that whole Boston 
Need 2 Texas GAs. Call Ali x4541 Call her at 219-634-4203 and make 284-52401 thing. WANT ATHLETIC PERSON FOR Desperate and Wealthy! her an offer. -An lllinios Farmer PERSONAL TRAINER AND MAS­Call1-800-223-2440 Ext.4370 IMITATION IS THE SINCEREST 
SAGE THERAPIST. WILL TRAIN. $$$$$$ Need 3 GA's for Vandy and 41or 11&*%%$@#(Go lrish!)#@$%%*&11 FROM OF FLATTERY. FREE PIZZA 219-462-8943 UT-call Jeff X1828 Find out why. A Decade of Service Right-to-Life Meeting 
need vanderbilt tickets I NEED 2 BC TICKETS! and Community for LESBIANS Tuesday 9/12@ 6 pm Lead Guitarist Looking lor Band GA's or married student tix Need 2-4 tix for Texas. John 631-I have $$$, Navy GAs, and USC AND GAYS. in Walsh Hall Basement Call Flynn x-1007 call Dan @ 273-4780 7204; 233-3412 tix. Please sell or trade. x3887. 287-6665. 




Friday, September 8, 1995 The Observer· SPORTS page 15 
• MAJOR LEAGUE 8ASEBAU 


Braves 6-1, Marlins 3-5 rough. It was my birthday, and his previous four decisions, but 
we hadn't won a home game." he was in command against a 
Pat Rapp pitched 6 1-3 no-hit The Braves and the Marlins hot-hitting White Sox lineup innings and Gary Sheffield and played six outs Thursday to that was batting .342 with a Jeff Conine smashed home runs complete the game suspended .558 slugging percentage over to lead the Florida Marlins to a by rain with the score tied 3-3, the eight-game streak, 5-1 win over the Atlanta Braves a runner on third and no outs Chicago's longest since 1991. Thursday night and salvage a in the top of the ninth. The complete game was split of a shortened double­Brad Woodall (1-0), who is Pavlik's first of the season and header. now at Triple-A Richmond, fourth of his career. 
Fred McGriff broke up Rapp's earned his first major league Pavlik pitched out of a ninth­no-hitter in the seventh with a victory -the Braves' fifth inning jam by making Robin towering home run to center­straight -with one shutout Ventura ground out to short field, his 24th. In the opener inning. Greg McMichael pitched with runners on first and sec­the Braves took 21 minutes to . a perfect ninth for his first save ond. beat the Marlins 6-3 in a com­of the season. Texas ended a four-game los­pletion of a suspended game Four months after the 3-3 tie ing streak and moved within delayed four months, two days, was suspended due to a down­two games of idle Kansas City and 54 minutes. pour, the game was delayed by in the AL wild-card race. 

Rapp, (10-7) allowed one run rain for another 54 minutes Pavlik struck out five and on four hits with five strikeouts before play resumed in the walked four in outdueling Wil­and two walks to win his fifth drizzle. son Alvarez (7-8), 0-7 on the straight completion. The Braves rallied for three road this season. ­
Sheffield's home run, his runs in the ninth inning of the Alvarez went 6 1-3 innings, 10th, and the fourth in the five May 4 game before it was sus­allowing two runs and five hits, games since he's been back pended after a 1-hour, 17-striking out two. Seven walks, from a hand injury, came after minute delay. two of which scored, proved his Chuck Carr reached first on an Baseball rules allow for a sus­undoing. infield single after a headfirst pension instead of a tie if the Pavlik retired the first 12 hit­slide. visiting team rallies to tie the ters in order, walked Frank 
In the first game the winning score and the home team does Thomas to open the fifth, then pitcher was in the minor not get its last at-bats. yielded Chicago's first hit on leagues and a ninth-inning hero Avery and Rapp also started Robin Ventura's sharply-hit sin­was in St. Louis as the Braves the May 4 game. gle to right. But Pavlik threw a quickly completed the win. double-play ball to Lyle Mouton 
Luis Polonia who was with and got Ray Durham on a the New York Yankees when Rangers 2, White Sox 0 groundout to end the threat. the first game started May 4, Pavlik worked out of a sev­singled in the tie-breaking run Roger -Pavlik threw a·three­enth-inning jam after allowing in the top of the ninth. hitter for his first career leadoff singles to Tim Raines 
"All kinds of goofy things shutout as the Texas Rangers and Dave Martinez. Pavlik got a happened," Marlins manager halted the Chicago White Sox' third-to-first double-play Rene Lachemann said. "We're eight-game winning streak with grounder from Thomas, the 


The Department of Music University Artist Series 
presents 

atherine 
. . k . mezzo-soprano
zestns 1 
with 
{(ijerald !:5teichen piano 
2:00p.m. Sunday, 10 September Annenberg Auditorium 


Tickets available at the door or call (219) 631-6201. $5 xrnera/ admission $2 for students/srnior citizens. 
·' I • .. ,~,_, n R. 
1be Gender Studies Program 
~associalkinwillllhe 
Department ol Communication &Theatre 
presenla 
..... 
o.,; 
::J:c::: 
r=z 
r-:z
--<
::z 
~~ 
~a.. 
-N.Y. TIMES 
TWO 
INFAMOUS QUEERS 
wmt N011tiNG 
IN 
COIIION... 
~lRAND R~l~A~ING AND JONAlHAN D~MM~ PR~S~Nl 
AFILl BY JILL GODIILOW 
Abenefit for the Gender Studies Program, in its collaborative efforts with GLND/SMC and Campus Ministry to provide aforum for discussion of issues raised by the GLND/SMC controversy of last spring 
r--------------------------------------------, 
lJX~WC3ill ~ 
HOURS: Monday • Thul'lldlly 7 -.n tD 10 pm • Frtday 7 am to 1 pm • Salurday 9 am 10 7 pm • ~a am 1o 5 pm 
21 Tans 
For $2 
NOTREQAME 
277-1166 
.................. o....,_ 
...
L-----------=~======~=-~------­
playing decent at home now, a 2-0 victory Thursday night. 
White Sox leader with 34 homers, intentionally walked Ventura with first base open, and retired Mouton on a groundout. 
Cardinals 5, Padres 2 
Ray Lankford drove in four runs with a double, triple and sacrifice fly and Allen Watson pitched six shutout innings as St. Louis snapped a five-game losing streak with a 5-2 victory over San Diego Thursday night. 
Lankford, who matched a ca­reer-high for RBis in a game, also stretched a hitting streak to nine games. He's batting .469 (15-32) during the streak. 

Watson (6-7) allowed four hits, struck out two, walked two and hit a batter in 6 1-3 in­nings. He lost his shutout and .... was lifted when Marc Newfield and Eddie Williams hit consec­utive doubles with one out in the seventh. 
Tom Henke. pitched a score­less ninth for St. Louis to earn his 31st save in 32 opportuni­ties. 
Padres starter Glenn Dishman (4-7) continued a pitching slump, allowing four runs in five innings. He has an 8.10 ERA over his last eight starts. 
Anociated Press 
The Cleveland Indians, sym­bols of baseball futility for four decades, clinched at least a tie for the AL Central title Thurs­day night, beating the Seattle Mariners 4-1. 
The Indians need one more win, or one more Kansas City loss, to guarantee their first ti­tle since 1954. They have clinched a wild-card berth, en­suring their first postseason appearance since they were swept by the New York Giants in the 1954 World Series. 
Their 85 wins are their most in any season since 1968, when they won 86. 
Charles Nagy won his third straight start, and Carlos Baerga homered for the Indi­ans, winners of 11 straight home games and 13 of their 

Tribe secures long-awaited playoff spot 
last 15 overall. 
Seattle dropped six games behind California in the AL West and one game behind Kansas City in the wild-card rae~. The Mariners and Royals meet in a three-game series beginning Friday night in Seat­tle. 
Nagy (13-5) gave up one run and five hits in seven innings, including Jay Buhner's career­high 28th home run. Nagy, who struck out seven and walked three, has struck out a total of 26 batters in his last three starts, covering 20 2-3 innings. 
Alan Embree and Julian Tavarez combined to pitch a scoreless eighth -Tavarez get­ting Buhner on a groundout to strand runners at second and third -and Jose Mesa pitched the ninth for his 39th save in 41 chances. 


FRIDAY SEPTEMBER 8 1:00 PM 
SNITE MUSEUM OF ART· UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
TICKETS $6-STUDENTS $4 (NO PASSES) FOR MORE INFO CALL 631-7361 
September Schedule September 10: Lafortune Ballroom, 3:30p.m. 
Celebrate Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. 
Celebrate Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. 
September 24: Stanford-Keenan Chapel, 11 :30a.m. 
Celebrate Fr. Don McNeill, C.S.C. 

(lMPUS
Todos Estan lnvitodos 
N\INISTRY 

-
~-------~-­

----~--~----------~-----­
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 8, 1995 

-
• US OPEN TENNIS 
Courier upsets Chang to reach semiffnals 

By STEVE WllSTEIN Chang threw the match away Associated Press by double-faulting on match point. NEW YORK If recent history continues, 
Three straight sets Jim Courier could be the champion Courier trailed Michael Chang, this year. For the last four and three times Courier clawed years, whoever has beaten back Thursday night to reach Chang in the Open has gone on the U.S. Open semifinals in one to win the title. of his gutsiest Grand Slam vic­Chang lost this match as tories. much as Courier won it. For all 
Courier, who will play Pete of Courier's aggressive play and Sampras on Saturday, set the sizzling shots in the corners on tone in the· trrst set, fightmg off the key points in the tiebreaks, four set-points in one game, Chang wasted chances and and beat Chang 7-6 (7-5}, 7-6 double-faulted at the wrong (7 -3), 7-5. times. 

Chang, seeded No. 5, led 5-3 "Normally I'm the one who's in each set but never could put ahead, and Michael's the one away the No. 14 Courier, who coming from behind," said has been playing this whole Courier. who has won four tournament with the fire he Grand Slam titles but never the-had during his reign as No. 1 U.S. Open. "I let him serve for several years ago. Ultimately, all three sets, and I broke each 

AP 
Celeb.-'ate a f.-'ieV\d 's bi .-'thday with a special Obse.-'Ve.-' ad. 

..... 
Happy 21st 
Jenn ... 
Christy, Susanne, kristen, 
Jen, & Kathy 
SANDI{A BlLL BULLOCK PULL~L\N 
Whil~ 
WTYou 
..were 
Sleeping 
A story about love at second sight. 
ES ~~. W"""':~.·.:~·:.:_· ,_·-_::.:::··--· 

time. This is a good match to assortment of styles that should and I was building confidence get through." prepare him well for the final as I went along. Today, he re­
Sampras also charged into weekend, especially after drop­ally blew me off the court. I re­the semifmals, closing out game ping only one set along the way. ally didn't have a weapon that after game with aces that "If I am playing well, I am could hurt him. So it is kind of a served as exclamation points, pretty tough to beat," Sampras downer." from a 128 mph "Hello!" to a said. "My whole game just re­Black, ranked No. 70, joined 128 mph "See ya later!" volves around my serve. If I am a long list of Sampras' victims 
Among his 22 aces through a serving well, that kind of lets in the Open over the years. This whipping wind, seven flew past the rest of my game be a lot hard surface, which allows a dizzy Byron Black on the last more confident and I can hit my Sampras to serve and volley or point of Sampras' service groundies a little cleaner." play from the baseline if he has games, leaving the Zimbab­Black, a month shy of 26, to, is almost as perfectly suited wean with the memory of brute sounded like someone who had to his game as Wimbledon's power that lingered in his mind just had his party spoiled. He grass. 
when he stepped up to serve so much less emphatically. 
Sampras punctuated the end of his 7-6 (7-3), 6-4, 6-0 romp with an ace that was just as fast as his first serve, showing he was no less tired at the end of the 1 hour, 45 minute semifmal tuneup than he was at the 
start. 
The winner of the Open in 1990 and '93, Sampras had only a little trouble in the frrst set adjusting to Black's mild­mannered game and two-fist­ed groundstrokes. In his previ­ous match, Sampras had beat­en a much different player in serve-and-volley specialist Todd Martin. 
Once Sampras got used to Black's style and cut down on his own errors, there was nothing to impede his progress one step closer to another Grand Slam title. 
"After I won the first two, there was no reason to fool around at this point in the tournament and take things for granted," Sampras said. "The last set was the best set I played all week. I really start­ed to pick up my serve. My whole game kind of just came behind it." 
Sampras has played all man­ner of players so far, including clay courter Jaime Yzaga, big Mark Philippoussis, Martin and now Black. It was an 



Welcome Students 
You are invited to 
FIRST UNITED METHODIST CHURCH 
333 N. Main St., South Bend 
FALL KICK,OFF CELEBRATION 
WORSHIP SERVICES:  Sunday, September 10, 1995  8:45  am  Contemporary 
11:00 am Traditwnal  
SUNDAY SCHOOL FOR ALL AGES 9:45 am  
NEW CLASS!  "FAITHLINK": Current Events & Other Issues  
This week: "What's Really Important in Your Life?"  
Nursery care throughout the morning, Binh-3 years  
Parking: Behind Church/Masonic Templeflunior Achievement  
Dr. Ellwood "Woody" Smith, Pastor  
Tim Robison, Director of Music/Organist  

Cindy Solum, Director of Christian Education/Youth Ministries 
w~­
direct from COUNTY GALWAY IRELAND will provide 
Via a Colorful show of Traditional Irish MusiC; Ceili Dance, Folk Singing and 
TASTE 
Storytelling
OF IRELAND... 
September 14th -7:30 p.m. 
Nd-teD~J~~ 
had beaten No. 8 Michael Stich And when he is on a roll like to get this far, and harbored this, there's an added dimen­dreams of another upset. But sion to Sampras that Black the story about how Sampras couldn't penetrate. got knocked out of the Open by "Nothing seems to phase him a kid who learned to play bare­too much," Black said. "You foot on a grass court in can break his serve and he still Zimbabwe will have to wait. comes back firing." 
"I was pretty much overpow­ered out there," Black said. "I haven't played in that sort of 
Watch for swirling wind before, and I think Pete was used to that. 
Irish Extra And he serves a lot better than I do. I was really struggling ev­
in Monday's
ery time on my serve. "You know, in the other 
Observer
matches I felt really confident 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Associate Accent Editor 
Those interested please submit two 
p age p e r s o n a 1 state m,e n t an d d i p s to 1 
Krista Nannery in 314 LaFortune by 
Sunday at 2PM. 
Journalistic experience is required. 




Boston College quanerbac~ Mark Harts~ll. t~rew three touchdown passes in the Eagles' 20-14 tnumph over V1rg1ma Tech Thursday. 
The 0 bserver 

is now accepting applications for thefollowing unpaid positions: 
Accent Literary Critic Accent Music Critic Accent Film Critic Accent Theatre Critic 
Experience a plus. bring a one page sample to Krista Nannery in 314 LaFortune by 2 PM Sunday. 


-~---....... 
page 17
The Observer • SPORTS 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALL 
•NBA 

-
Player vote to
Boston College recovers 
determine fate 
from opening week loss 
of labor union 
and Atle Larson missed a 30­Associated Press yard field goal. 
By DAVID REED By WENDY E. LANE 
On the first drive of the sec­
Associated Press BLACKSBURG, Va. ond quarter, the Hokies finally 
Mark Hartsell threw three got thei.f game together and 
NEW YORK 
touchdown passes and Steve drove from their own 16 to the 
NBA players turned out in 
Everson caught 10 passes for Eagles 24. Then two defenders large numbers Thursday to 142 yards Thursday night, popped the ball out of fullback complete voting on the fnte of helping Boston College rebound Brian Edmonds' hands and their union, with opposing from a first-game rout with a safety Terence Wiggins caught sides in the dispute optimistic 
20-14 victory over No. 20 it in the air and ran it back 53 about wlnning. Virginia Tech. yards. 
Players voted on union 
Hartsell completed 24 of 38 Six plays later, with 9:26 left 
decertification at sites around 
passes for 273 yards for the in the first half, Hartsell put the country, and the results Eagles (1-1, 1-0 Big East). Boston College ahead 14-0 with are to be announced Tuesday. Jim Druckenmiller. starting a 4-yard touchdown pass to 
The players were to decide his first game in Virginia Tech's Dennis Harding. whether to retain the National nationally televised opener, On the first play from scrim­Basketball Players Association completed 21 of 42 passes for mage in the second half, as their collective bargaining
Druckenmiller threw an 80­
296 yards. representative. NBA commis­
The Hokies drove to the yard touchdown pass to Bryan sioner David Stern, who 
Boston College 19 on the final Still. The flanker faked out a locked out players July 1, has drive, but stalled after Cor­waiting defender at the 30 and said a "yes" vote is the only nelius White dropped a pass at sprinted 70 yards down the way to guarantee the season 
the 6 with 31 seconds to play. sideline. 
starting on time. Boston College, held without Hartsell then completed two 
"A large turnout would sug­a touchdown in the 39-6 loss to clutch throws on third down, 
gest the players who favor the 
Ohio State in the Kickoff Clas­lobbing a ball to Steve Everson 
agreement and the union 
sic, took just three minutes and just inside the sideline at the 4­
came out and voted for it," eight plays to get into the end yard line and zipping a TD 
said Simon Gourdine, the zone against Virginia Tech. strike to Michael Hemmert. 
union's executive director. On the opening drive, Hartsell Virginia Tech blocked the ex­
If players vote to retain the completed all five passes and tra-point attempt, which 
union. player representatives 
found tight end Todd Pollack seemed critical after the Hokies from each team will meet 
for an 11-yard touchdown pass. scored early in the fourth quar­
Sept. 13 to officially ratify the Virginia Tech struggled early ter on Edmonds' 1-yard run 
agreement. Twenty·one of the as receivers dropped five easy and put Boston College ahead 
27 reps must approve it. 
passes, a running back fumbled by just six, 20-14. 
GREAT \YALL 
Voted # 1 Oriental Restaurant 1991, 1992 and 19931 Szechuan •Cantonese •American Chinese Restaurant & LoWige Open 7 Days 
~-.. Sunday Buffet Brunch -Every Sunday S8.95 for Adults s3.95 for Children under 10 
(219!272-7376 130 Dlxleway S. (US 3Jin Roseland) at Randall's Inn, South Bend.IN 
Team owners then will vote, and their approval would end the lockout. 
The labor dispute moves into the courtroom Thursday, when U.S. district judge David Doty will hear motions on the antitrust sUit against the NBA filed by Ewing, Jordan and 14 other players. 
Doty. the judge who presided over an antitrust case against the NFL that led to a labor deal , also will hear the NBA's motion to have the case transferred to New York. 
~ g'ad--eD.-S~ A­
~ • Vintage Levis •Over 40 Styles of Hats ~i •Urban Outfitters •Belts • Socks • Tights 
..t •Coats/Jackets •Handbags/Purses '1 THE •Handcrafted Beaded • Petites 
~ STYLE & Silver Jewelry 1912 s. 11th (U.s. 31133) 2 'h miles north of state Une Hours: 
M-F 10-8, Sal. 10-6
Layaway & Belle Plaza, Niles 
Open Sun. 12~
Co., INC• Alterations Available 687-9123 begirvling Sept. 1st 

-
Le St:.1lon d~ /'Anrirh.l Th~ Sulon nf Friendship 
THREE QUESTIONS ONE ANSWER 
BECOME A MEMBER OF 
THE SALON OF FRIENDSHIP 
Have you been abroad on the Notre Dame lnte•·national P1·og•·an1'? A1·e you taking French or Spanish? Can you speak French or Spanish'? A1·e you willing to make more friends from all over the world? Would you like to share your!>elf wilh friends and enjoy S<Hne exotic cuisine while practicing to speak a language? 
Are you concerned about the ways of politics in your own country'! In other countries around the world? Do you have any wisdom you would like to share with others with identical or different concerns? Are you weary of violence us u way of pursuing peace or restoring justice? 
Are you willing to improve your ability to practice French/Spanish. and enhance your academic performance in these areas? Would you like to be part of a new and genuine experience ot· friendship and humanness? Do you want to supply a grain of hope to the hopeless, lend your voice to the voiceless, and en-.powe•· the powerless? 
If your ans-wer to any of these questions is yes 
'· 
Please be part of a unique experience about to start here in our own Unive•·sity of Notre Dame. Please join The Salon of' Friendship/Le Salon de l'Anlitie/El Salon de AT7listad. 
READ OUR FOIJNDING DOCUMENT TO KNOW MORE OF WHAT THE SALON OF FRIENQSHIP IS ALL ABOUT 
Venue: Hesburgh Library Lounge 
Time: 7:00---8:00 PM Date: Monday, September 11, 1995 
To register for the inforn1ation meeting OJ' to become a nlcJnbcr please call Paula Shannon at 634-2824 or Marlon Vander at 634-39 I 5 
Le Salo11 de I'A11ririe The Salon of Friendshi 1::."/ Scllt'Sn t.l~ Anrl.\·uul 

-
• STADIUMS 
Candlestick latest to be renamed for corporation 

Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO 
Candlestick Park, home of baseball's Giants and football's 49ers, was officially renamed 3Com Park on Thursday. 
3Com Corp., a Santa Clara data networking company, will pay the city $500,000 for the rights to the name through the end of 1995. The city's Recre­

-...._ 
-
ONLY 
39.99 
L.E.I. OVERALLS 
$20 
KNIT TOP 
ation and Parks Commission unanimously approved the change. 
The company is also paying an undisclosed amount to the San Francisco 49ers for pro­motional considerations. 
3Com wants to extend the deal though 2000 for a total of $4 million, but that will have to go before the San Francisco board of supervisors. 
Sharma Rose, secretary of the commission, said the city needs the money to refurbish the sta­dium, known by most as "The 'Stick." 
"This money will be used to begin the design process for the improvements that will need to be made for the 1999 Super Bowl," she said. The city will need an additional $22 million to complete the reforms. 
The most immediate change fans will notice will be a banner hanging over the entrance road to the park, that will be changed to "Welcome to 3Com Park," the 49ers have informed the city, said Rose. 
Most media organizations, in­cluding stations that broadcast the 49ers and Giants games, are expected to go along with the change. 
Supervisor Tom Ammiano said his office had already be­gun fielding calls from San Franciscans unhappy about the pending name change. 
Candlestick Park, built for the San Francisco Giants when they moved from New York, held its first game in 1960. It was named after Candlestick Point, on which it was built, after a 1959 ballot by fans. 


Friday, September 8, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS 
Men 
continued from page 24 
Lanza looked anything but dis­abled last Sunday against DePaul, as he tallied 2 goals and 3 assists in just over 45 minutes of play. Lanza's valiant performance in his return to the Irish lineup after missing all of last season with a bad knee earned him Big East oiiensive player of the week hon­ors. The senior leads the team with 7 points, and his 67 career points puts him at 14th on the Irish all-time scoring list. 
front by senior Josh Landman, who scored the first two goals of his career against DePaul. Freshman Benjamin Bocklage, who played well in his collegiate debut against DePaul, may also see time at forward this weekend. 
The goalie spot is still somewhat of a question mark for the Irish. Both sophomore Peter Van de Ven and freshman Greg Velho are expected to see playing time this weekend, and freshman Gerick Short may also get some expe­rience. All three remain some­what inexperienced, and Sunday's game against Syracuse should provide a good test for the young Irish netminders. 
WoiDen 
continued from page 24 
consin before traveling to Madison to face the nation­ally ranked Badgers. The Badgers are currently No. 12 and will provide the Irish with their first real test of the year. 
"They are one of the best teams in the country," Petrucelli commented. "Their top three players are as good as our top three players." 
Past those three players, however, the Irish hope to capitalize with their depth. 
"We're deeper than they are," Petrucelli said. 
Last year the Badgers vis­ited Alumni Field ranked No. 8 in the country only to be defeated 2-0. Besides that, playing the No. 2 team will also be a motivational factor. 
"This is they're biggest game of the year," Petrucelli concluded. 
page 19 
t•1..1~1\S I~ 

f)IJSI~Il\TJ~Il 

-
-


page 20 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 8, 1995 
-

the Irish VICTORY over The Irish TROUNCE 

T'exas
~~ 
'ACTION IDB 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
the Irish UPSET and the Irish NIX 

Navy
TO EXCHANGE A TICKET: *The student exchanging a ticket must visit the Joyce Center Ticket Office at Gate One between 8:30 and 5:00 Tuesday through Thursday the week of the game for which the student requires a GENERAL ADMISSION ticket. 
*The student must present their own PERSONAL student ticket signed in ink in 
the designated area and a corresponding Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student identification card. 
*The ticket for that week's game will then be removed from the booklet and the student will be presented with a replacement GENERAL ADMISSION ticket for the same seat. The student will then be charged $15, the difference between the face values of the two tickets. 
*Since there is a limit to the number of student tickets which can be exhanged for each game, the ticket office will exhange tickets on a first come-first served basis. Students are also limited to exchanging only two tickets per season. 
*Restrictions regarding the resale of either student tickets or the exchanged 
tickets remain the same as in the past. 

_, 
If you have absolutely any questions or comments about how this works or what you need to do, please call Stu­dent Government at 631-7668, or contact Student Gov­ernment by e-mail at studegov.1 @nd.edu. 



Friday, September 8, 1995 
The Observer • SPORTS page 21 


Astroturf blamed for increasing injury list 

By BARRY WILNER saw Steve Tovar, their best Associated Press linebacker, break his hand in 
Hod Woodson, gone for the 

season. 
Kevin Smith, out for 1995. 
Ki-Jana Carter, gone before 

he could get his pro career started. Honnie Lott, sidelined and perhaps with his career at an end. Don Mosebar, his vision severely impaired by a freak injury, also wondering about his future. 
Lesser knowns such as Dave Alexander, Scott Davis and Vaughn Hebron won't be play­ing this year, either. 
One week into the NFL sea­son, a bunch of teams already an~ scrambling to fill voids cre­ated by injuries. Dallas and Pittsburgh, two strong Super Bowl contenders, have been hit hardest, losing their best cor­nerbacks. 
Cincinnati seems jinxed after Carter, the top pick in the draft, tore up his knee and backup quarterback David Klinger broke his jaw in the same ex­hibition game. The Bengals also that game. 
Lott, one of the game's great­est defensive players for more than a decade, might be headed for retirement after a fractured leg sidelined him for what would have been his 15th NFL season. The Chiefs put him on injured reserve during presea­son. 
Several of the sidelined play­ers went down with what's be­coming known as "turf in­juries." They were hurt despite not being hit while playing on artificial turf. 
Woodson said as much when he tore the anterior cruciate ligament in his right knee. 
"It was the turf. I couldn't get my leg up fast enough. I knew what I did right away," Wood­son said. "It's what you get when you play on turf some­times. I've played on turf for nine years, and sooner or later it's going to grab you." 
It also grabbed Davis and Alexander in the same game. The Giants guard and Jets cen­ter saw their seasons end on the Giants Stadium artificial surface when the teams met in an exhibition game. 
Dallas' Smith also went down on that field where, in the. past, Lawrence Taylor and Mike Sherrard of the Giants, Lance Mehl, Joe Klecko and Dennis Byrd of the Jets were hurt, al­though not all were a result of the carpet. 
"The big why is why do we have Astroturf at Giants Sta­dium?" Giants quarterback Dave Brown asked when Davis was hurt. "I don't care if they say there are too many games there.... If you ask both teams, they'd rather play on mud in December. 
The New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority, which runs the Meadowlands, has looked into putting grass down permanently. It had a tempo­rary grass field for the World Cup last year. 
But it probably isn't feasible for Giants Stadium, which held 53 events in 1994, from football to soccer to concerts. 
"We will follow the teams' in­terest in determining the play­ing surface," said NJSEA spokeswoman Helen Strus. "Their choice is Astroturf be­cause it is durable for the 50 or so events each year we hold, and for the climate during the football season. 
Of course. artificial turf is merely a contributing factor in many injuries. But the NFL Players Association is con­cerned it is too much of a fac­tor. 
In a survey conducted by the NFLPA last year, 93 percent of those who responded believe injuries are more likely to occur on artificial turf, with only 1. 5 percent blaming grass fields for more injuries. And 85 percent of the 965 players who re­sponded said they prefer a grass surface. Seven percent preferred artificial turf and 8 percent had no preference. 
Perhaps the most distressing injury happened to Carter on only the third carry of his first preseason appearance. The No. 
.. . . t• . 
~ ..~. ':. ': 
.. '•! 
.r.•. 
. :.:: . 
. 
. .' 


'· 
. ·, -~~~~~~ 

,'. ~-----~ ...... 
··''.>.'':..: .... · 
' '
..... 
1',. <;;­;.. "·· 
·...-;.~-" ··;~ ,, ,;: 
Off the Bench with, KI\ute,.Vince and the Bear 
• -'~ •.• , ~ v 
~ ~ ·' ,, ' . '
·'·. 
An original play , Buddy Parmer. 

.:i:.· . •• 
. .. 

• I t ' , '~ 
Mall to. ·coachos· Tickets • Washington Holl, Univorslty of Notre Ogmo, Notre Dome, IN 46556. Make thaoks pfiYIIble ta: UniVONlity of Notre Darno ..J Villa ..J Mntarcard Card # -----Namo 
Addrau
. ·--------··--·------------------·--------·---­
·I 
•
1 City 'Stala!Zip 
·~ # __of tickets x $50 each = $___total. Performance: 0 Friday, Sepl 8 0 Saturday, Sept. 9 
1 choice out of Penn State and the keystone to Cincinnati's re­building project went down before he ever got going in the 
NFL. 
"I don't know what you can blame it on," Carter said. "If you could see the way I cut, I guess I overextended myself. I guess it would probably be my fault. It was just a little freak accident." 
The saddest aspect of the early wave of injuries is exactly that: It is so early in the sched­ule, yet so many stars are miss­ing. With, in all likelihood, more to come. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Shortn~Ryu Karate Semester-long course that meets in Rockne 219 M/W 4:30·6:30 starting Wednesday, Sept. 14. Register in advance, and the fee $15. Call HecSports for information. 
Men's Club Volleyball ­Tryouts will be held on Sept. 10-12 in the JACC Auxiliary Gym. For more information come to activities night or contact Josh at 4·3413 or Gregg at 4·1650. 
Bike Ride -RecSports will be sponsoring a bike ride from New Buffalo to the Dunes (approximately 25 miles round trip) on Sunday, Sept. 17. A picnic lunch at the Dunes Is included along with transportation for you and your bike. The fee is $8 and space is limited. Helmets are required and you must register in advance at the RecSports office. The bus de­parts the l.ibrary Circle at 10 and returns at 5. For more information call RecSports at 1-6100. 
Weight Room Demonstration • RecSports is sponsoring free demonstra· tions Sunday Sept. 10 at noon In the fieldhouse weight room. Monday, Sept. 11 at noon In the Rockne weight room, and Thursday, Sept. 14 at noon in the Rockne weight room. Sigh in when you get there. 
Mandatory Track Meeting • The meeting will be held Wednesday, Sept. 13 at 4 pm in Loftus Auditorium. Questions? Call Ken at 239­7959. 
Notre Dame Ski Club -All Students interested in any ski club activities or trying out for the ski team should attend an informational meeting on Tuesday, September 12, at 8 
p.m. in 118 Nieuwland. Any­one with questions can call Ryan at 273·2420 . 

•NIL '-·Slllllr T~Uili, 3:05, li:10, 7:31i, t.41i 
•A Dill Kill Al'1lll'l (PG) 1:H, 3:30, li:31i, 7:40, w •Dll ~(PG) 1:41i, 4:1fi, 7:11,1:40 •Clullal (PG-13) 711i,l:31i •Dllilqlllll'l Cki (PG)1:311, t31i, ti:!li •A Wllk II D1 Clllll (PG-13) 1:00,31D,Ii:40,7:1i5,1D:1D •LDr1l alllllalllls (R) tDD,4:38,7:DII,t.311 ~ 1111111 (G) 1:Dii,3:1D.l15,7:tD,I:H • ~ JIQIIIIIIII ilydi(PG-131 1:11i,t11i,5:21,7:311,t.li5 
• -"-(R) 1:1111,11'11 • IIIIIIMIDlPG-13) 1:31i,3:41i,l41i tallr Sill 2(R) 1:1D,tlli,5:311, 7i8,1D:1111 
11 IJ All SEATS IJHorrt & Pl,l 

page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 8, 1995 
• SAINT MARY'S VOlLEYBALL 

-
Belles defense falters in loss 

• NOTRE DAME VOLLEYBALL 
Birkner back to full strength for Irish 
By MIKE DAY weekend. They both do a great matches for the Hoosiers. as against USC." after recording a team high 44 Sports Writer job, and they're both fun to play Coming off a 29-5 1994 cam­Kentucky was a lackluster 13-kills last weekend against with." paign and entering this week­21 last year, but they are the Northwestern and USC. She The rich get richer. With three matches in two end's tournament at 3-0, most experienced of the three also ranks second to May with Ranked No.9 in the country days, the Irish will look to uti­Louisville should provide the Irish opponents. Seniors Molly 23 digs in eight games for the 
and fresh off an impressive four lize the entire 10 player squad toughest challenge for the Irish. Dreisbach, Mara Eglitis, and Irish. game victory over previous No. this weekend. Notre Dame will Junior outside hitter Beth Krista Robinson are three of "With three matches in 24 9 USC, the Notre Dame volley­take on host Indiana tonight at Kuhnell is one of the top out­the top players in the Southeast hours, we will have to play ball team will get an additional 7:30 before facing Kentucky side hitters in the country, hav­Conference. hard and keep the intensity boost this weekend when co­and Louisville on Saturday. ing posted 70 kills in just three After winning the Big Four level high," said Brown. "We captain Jenny Birkner com­Led by senior Stacy Murr and matches for the Cardinals. Classic last year, Notre Dame need to try to beat teams in petes at full strength for the sophomores Marcee Prothro, "We will have to execute well will look to become the first re­three games, and we will have first time this season. the Hoosier's enter tonight's to beat them on Saturday," said peat champion in the six year to make some improvements to 
Although the 5-11 junior contest with a record of 3-1. junior middle blocker Jen history of the tournament. As be able to do that." started against Northwestern Murr leads the team with 39 Briggs. "We must not lose our usual, the Irish will be led by Whether it takes three games and USC last weekend, Birkn­digs, while Prothro has posted focus, and we will have .to play Briggs, Lee, Birkner, setter or not, Notre Dame, operating er's playing time was limited 31 kills and 11 digs in four with the same kind of intensity Carey May, and Big East Player at full strength for the first time due to a foot injury she suffered of the Week Angie Harris. this season, should return in preseason workouts. How­Harris became the first Notre home 5-0 on Saturday evening. ever, she is expected to be at Dame player to win the award full strength this weekend as the team travels to Bloomington to face Indiana, Kentucky, and Louisville in the sixth annual Big Four Classic. 
DORMITORY 
"She was very limited last weekend and wasn't able to push off like she normally does," said head coach Debbie 
REFRIGERATORS 
Brown. "Her return helps a lot 
starting at
in terms of our depth at outside RENTAL SIZES: hitter." Junior Kristina Ervin, who 
2.5 CUBIC FEET
filled in for Birkner last week­end, made sure the Irish didn't 3.5 CUBIC FEET miss a beat in the team's first 
$45
4.5 CUBIC FEET
two matches of the season. Starting for the frrst time, Ervin 6.5 CUBIC FEET recorded 21 kills and 18 digs 
for the school year 
against the Wildcats and Tro­jans at the Joyce Center. 
PICK-UP AND DELIVERY AVAILABLE
"Kristina responded real well for us last weekend when we really needed her," said Brown. 
BURNS RENTAL, INC 
"We will find ways to use her, 
332 W. MISHAWAKA AVE.
and she will be a significant contributor for us this year." (corner of Mishawaka Ave. and Liberty Dr.) ::! "Teammate Jaimie Lee added, "We weren't losing anything Junior co-captain Jenny Birkner will be 100 percent as the Irish travel 259-2833 259-2833 
when Jenny was hurti~n~g~l~a~s:t~t:o~B:Io~o:m:i:n;gt:o;n~fo~r~t:h:e!B~ig~Fo~u~r~C~I:as:s~ic~t:h:is~W::e:ek:e;n:d~.............~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::;;;;:;::~ 

Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 
By STEPHANIE BUEK Sports Writer 
Last night, in their home opener, the Saint Mary's vol­leyball team suffered a disap­pointing loss to Calvin College in three games, 9-15, 9-15, 6­15. 
Head Coach Julie Schroeder­Biek attributed the loss to poor defense. According to Schroeder-Biek, the Belles were slow to identify defensive situations, as well as ineffective in making the necessary transi­tions from offense to defense. 
"We were not crisp in defen­sive position. We need to iden­tify and go," said Schroeder­Biek. "If it's a downball situa­tion, then we need to be in downball defense. If it's a free­ball, we need to get into free­ball transition. We just did not identify as quickly as we should have," added Schroeder-Biek. 
The Belles' offense struggled with inaccurate passes to setter Kelly Meyer, which in turn caused problems in the hitters' attacks. Sophomore outside hitter Meg Kelly led the Belles' attack with four kills in 17 attempts. However, Meyer had particular trouble getting the ball to senior middle hitter Sara Stronczek, who led the Belles' offensive effort against Manchester Tuesday night with 16 kills. 
"It hurts us when we don't get the ball to Sara. we· have to pass; we have to establish a middle attack," said Schroeder­Biek. 
According to Assistant Coach Amber Warners, Calvin capital­ized on the Belles' weak of­fense. 
"They have multiple numbers of good hitters," said Warners of the Belles. "The times they actually got the ball to their hit­ters, they put it down, but on defense we picked up a lot and made good passes," concluded Warners. 
Not only did Calvin capitalize on the Belles' freeballs, but the Calvin squad played with more emotion than the Belles. Ac­cording to freshman middle attack Laura Schreeg, such a lack of emotion was a key fac­tor in the Belles' loss. 
"As a team, we need to be more intense," said Schreeg. "Calvin played with more en­thusiasm. We have talent, but we need emotion." 
While a deficiency in dedica­tion handicapped the Belles against Calvin, the team did demonstrate formidable skill. Particularly, sophomore outside hitter Meg Kelly gave an im­pressive performance, serving nine points and two aces, lead­ing the team with four kills, and picking up eight digs for the night. Despite the Belles' poor passing as a team, Kelly had no service errors. 


Friday, September 8, 1995 
page 23 FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1995 (For your personalized daily Jeane Dixon horoscope, based on your own date of birth, call 1-900-988-7788. Your phone company will bill you 99 


cents a minute.) HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Do your homework faithfully and you will be recruited for that dream job you seek. Do not look a gift horse in the mouth; accept favors at face value. Early in I996, an "impossible" dream will come true. Romance veers off a rocky road onto a path leading to the altar. The idea of retiring becomes more attractive when you find something that you really want to do. Be open­minded. CELEBRITIES BORN ON

A~D IV I 00 ALL M'{ 
11~, '{OJ Cf>.-\-.1 OOJ~l.E-C\1ECK W'2R£ 1-\t.R'i:. -ro \-\f>NE A. N.ICt. 
THIS DAY: country music legend

1-lOMt.WORK, WI:. GEl 10 
t-1\'{ Ml\1\-\ PROBLEMS W\\ILE T1Mt. TR'i N.OT It> \\-\1\-.\K Patsy Cline, comedian Sid Caesar, 51~'{ Ul' "N. t.KTR,t... 1-\f>..LF 
I S\f>..RT ON~'{ ~~~'i. APro\ A\.L 1\-\t:. IROUBL't. basketball player Maurice Cheeks, 1-\00R lD F\.A'{ Cr..L\l\N'a,I>..LL! 
WE\lt. GO\ TO 
CA.l\llt--1'<; G£\T\t--IG IN\0. actress Heather Thomas. 
GET 11-\1'3 O~t:. 
YOU f-\AVE TO GO I CAT YOU f-\AVE NO VALUE TO U5. 
\ 
£!If) 
~-~~ 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 Cesar of 60's-70's
1 Insult 
baseball 8 Lives 
:>: 
0 
u 
-' 
0 
~ 
~ 
:>: 
< 
~ 
13 
• ill :>: "' 
ill 
~ 
~ 
II) 
ACTUALLY I {"\'( f"''ERE EXISTENCE. WILL WIDEN YOUR DEMO­GRAPHIC APPEAL AND Mf\KE '<OU IMMORTAL. 
58 Last letters? 59 European kingdom until 
1918 81 Kerchief 83 Heorl may 
represent one 84 Fancy homes 85 Crystalline 
amino acids 88 Mideast money 
DOWN 
1 Draws 2 Plunder 3 Purple flower 4 Malarkey 5Aunt Bee's 
charge & Nice one 7 Rapid repeat, in 
music 
8 Go back over 9 Certain celebration times 
30Addition 10 Wrong 
31 Paper units 11 TV's Mrs. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Doing your work quietly and effi­ciently will win you kudos. Your wardrobe may need an overhauL Strive for elegance; choose clothes that are chic, not shockingly bold. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You could agree to assume some responsibilities that are not rightful­ly yours. Share your true feelings with loved ones. Your willingness to cooperate will be put to the test. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Show others that you can accept constructive criticism when it is well-meant. You have a lot to gain by being cooperative and humble. Financial speculation is out; protect­ing your assets is in!
Or\.. A 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
Obligations you recently assumed
CAT. THAT'S GIVE. IT 
~ 
could prove almost overwhelming.
ORIGINAL. A REST, 
You may have to stick to a strict
& 
schedule to make any kind of
"MICKEY''
! 
progress. Be wary in close encoun­J ters.
I 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Stick to routine business today. This is no
J t ~ 
time to take chances in love or 
" ~ 
money. A playful mood vanishes when work starts piling up. Follow through on instructions from those at the top. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your sweet tooth could tempt you to go off a diet. Exercise willpower. Getting in shape will boost your energy level! Changes are indicated where romance is concerned. A void painting your.;elf into a comer. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Romance can easily fall into a rut if you let it. Do something different tonight -just for fun. Group enter­tainment is favored. Choose your companions carefully if hoping to stay within your budget. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Keep any secrets entrusted to you. Otherwise, there will be hard feel­ings between you and someone who feels betrayed. Concern over money could make you appear a little detached at work. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Remain flexible. You cannot always have your own way in affair.; of the heart. Be more considerate of loved one's feelings. An overly crit­ical attitude can nip romance in the bud. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Some in-depth soul-searching is in order. Put a recent spat with a loved one behind you; resolve to make amends. A young person needs nurturing guidance. Keep in touch with friends at a distance. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Read between the lines in a tricky work situation. The best place to put your artistic talents to work is in your own home. Your creativity adds a touch of elegance to every­day living. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Check the particulars of a job assignment before proceeding. Go slow if there are unanswered ques­tions. You could find yourself in the spotlight later today. Be certain to make a good impression on influen­tial people. 
South Cheese Sticks Italian Chicken Sandwich . Mississippi Fried Catfish 
something to say? 
44 "Coppelia" 55 Prefix with circle composer 
56 Trigonometric 48Cians ratio 
Use 
-
-

15 Interstate overseer 16 Manifest 17 Cloth 18 Town east of Paramus, N.J. 19 I.C. C. issuance: Abbr. 20 Brand of glue 22 Close 23 Competent 25 Luke's "Star Wars" mentor 28 Put one past 27 Take over 29 Rent 
34 Dish sometimes made with leftovers 
35 Auto accessory 37 Most chic 41 Hauled 45Social 48 Hazardous 
locale 49 Emotional outburst 50 Cell chemistry 
abbr. 51 Riches 53 Appears 54 Career suffixes 5&1962Tommy 
Roe hit 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

Hey Nort, 
32 Athens's districtMorgenstern et 47 Shoe part 57 Predeal al. 36 Former N.H.L 
48lnfer requirementgreat12 Best 52 Photographer's 60 Stag goers 38 Loathe 
13 Braid concern &2 Wild West terr. 14 Professionally 39 Guard 
The Observer 
barbered 
40 Infringe (on) 21 Kind of cheese Get answers to any three clues
42 They may be 24 Greek governor worn with tails by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­28 Deal with 43 Foil relative 5656 (75¢ each minute). 
classifieds 
hought. Just be in Cushing Tonit 
or 1Opm or Sunday at 2pm. $2 ad io nly 200 pennies if it's your birthdayl) 
and otter lovers...be at the LaFortune Ballroom Thurs. Sept. 14 at 7pm for SUB Recruitment Night 


-
SPORTS 
page 24 Friday, September 8, 1995 
• MEN's SoccER 
Orangemen first conference test for Irish 
Berticelli not looking past Friday contest with Valparaiso 
By DYLAN BARMMER Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's soccer t.eam ope~s a two-game bomes­tand this weekend, playing host to Valparaiso University tonight at 7:30 before taking part in their first ever Big East match against Syracuse University at 
1:00 Sunday. 
While much of the focus is on Notre Dame's matchup with the 3-0-0 Orangemen in their inaugural Big East contest, Irish head coach Mike Berticelli is not looking past the 0-2-0 Crusaders. 
"While we have been working all week to prepare for both games, we are only looking to­wards Valparaiso between now and Friday," said Berticelli. You can't ever look past an op­ponent in soccer; you just never know what can happen." 
If the Irish were to look past anyone this season, Valpo would be a likely candidate. The Crusaders come into the game having given up nine goals in two games while tally­ing none themselves. Val-paraiso is also 0-22 all-time years," commented the Irish the opposition 9-1, tallying against Notre Dame and was a head coach. "You can never be three goals against each of woeful 2-13-1 last season. certain of anything in this their three opponents. The However, all this considered, game." Orangemen are led by fresh­Berticelli is still not taking any­Syracuse niay pose more of a man sensation Jeff Knittel, who thing for granted. threat to the Irish this week­scored two goals in a 

"Their program has really end, as they bring in a danger­Wednesday night victory over improved over the last few ous team that has outscored Adelphi. The midfielder, who was the national high school player of the year last year, has 4 goals and 3 assists for a total of 11 points in the team's first three games of the young sea­son. The Orangemen possess an additional scoring threat in Jamie Shannon, the senior for­ward who has registered 3 goals and 2 assists for 8 points so far this year. Shannon also leads the Syracuse squad in shots on goal with 12. 
"They have some great play­ers up front," said Berticelli of the Orangemen. "They are coming in here 3-0, with a good bit of confidence. We have to be ready to play." 
The Irish, while coming off an inspiring 8-0 dismantling of DePaul, are still a young, inex­perienced team, as well as a team that continues to be plagued by injuries. 
In addition to the loss of sophomore forward Ryan Turner for the entire season due to back problems, the Irish will be without the services of sophomore forward Scott Wells and freshman defender Matt Mahoney for at least this week­end. Wells, who is filling in at forward in Turner's absence, has also been bothered by back problems, and Mahoney injured his ankle late in the game against DePaul. Star forward Bill Lanza is also playing with a tender ankle. 
see MEN I page 19 
• WoMEN's SoccER 
Irish score another shutout 
Gerardo breaks scoring record in 7-0 win over Indiana 
ByJOE VILLINSKI nervous and excited. within the women's soccer Assistant Sports Editor After scoring four goals in program. two games last weekend it Last night against Indiana, 
Before her first collegiate seems as if the freshman's Gerardo shattered the Irish game last Saturday, Monica nerves have settled down. single game scoring record as Gerardo claimed to be both Now, that excitement can lie she tallied four goals in Notre 
Dame's 7-0 shutout. It was only after the contest that Gerardo grasped the im­

-portance of the precedent she had just set. 
"I really didn't know I broke the record until after the game," Gerardo said. 
Gerardo also acknowledged her teammates with a certain modesty that can only bring a smile to coach Chris 

.. 
Petrucelli's face . "My teammates did a great 
The Observer/Brent Tadsen
job of giving me the ball in 
Holly Manthei(above) set up Monica Gerardo's record-tying goal with 
good scoring position," 
a corner kick in the Irish shutout of the Hoosiers Thursday. 
Gerardo added. The Irish outshot the 
than the score would indi-tered an assist on Michelle Hoosiers 21-5, jumping out to cate," Petrucelli noted. "If McCarthy's second goal of the a 5-0 lead at halftime. Indiana converts on their night. However, Indiana managed to breakaway in the first half, it "I don't know if we played all accomplish something neither changes the complexion of the that well, but we scored some Big East opponent did in Notre game." great goals," Petrucelli added. Dame's opening games. Midfielder Holly Manthei as-The Irish will have the next 
Push the ball over midfield sisted Gerardo's third goal on two days to prepare for Wis-and mount a scoring threat. a corner kick. Forward 
"The game was a lot closer Rosella Guerrero also regis-see WOMEN I page 19 



Football Women's Soccer 
• Volleyball teams in action 
at Purdue Saturday, 2:30 p.m. 
at Wisconsin Sunday, 2 p.m. 
see page 22 
Cross Country 
Volleyball 
at Ohio State September 15
at Indiana Friday, 7:30p.m. 
• Boston College victorious 
vs. Kentucky and Louisville Saturday 
Saint Mary's Volleyball 
see page 17
at Hope Saturday 
Men's Soccer 
vs. Valparaiso Friday, 7:30 p.m. 

Saint Mary's Soccer • Courier, Sampras win at U.S. Open 
vs. Syracuse Sunday, 1 p.m. 
vs. Ohio Wesleyan Saturday, 1:30 p.m. 
see page 16 



