-~---~-­


2,300 begin Notre Dame, Saint Mary's careers 

Redoing the Dome 
Workers walk the scaffolding as they con­tinue the Main Building's exterior renova­tion. The building's 4.3 million bricks are being cleaned, and windows and the roof will be replaced as part of the $5 million renovation. Engineers hope to have the project completed by next August, at which point the building's offices will be moved to Grace Hall to allow an interior renovation to begin in 1997. See story below. 


Notre Dame welcomes record-setting class 
By DAVE 1YLER 
News Editor 
Contrary to the popular adage, bigger did indeed mean better for Notre Dame's class of 1999. 
Notre Dame received a record 9,999 applications for admission into this year's freshman class. In turn, the applicant pool -the largest ever -produced the most aca­demically talented class ever to be admitted to the University, according to Kevin Rooney, director of UJ?.dergraduate 
admissions. 
Approximately 1900 first­year students will enroll for the fall 1995 semester, which begins August 22. 
"This pool-which was our largest and most talented-has yielded a class with the strongest composite academic credentials we have seen," Rooney said. 
The average member of the 1995 freshman class was in the top six percent of their high school class and scored a 1239 
see ND I page 6 


Expectations already set for SMC freshmen 
By PAITI CARSON 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Director of Admissions Mary Pat Nolan is very pleased with the number of incoming fresh­man at Saint Mary's. Of the 815 applicants, 700 were accepted and an estimated 385 will attend, according to Nolan. 
This brings Saint Mary's to a 55 percent conversion rate, which is very good by national standards, Nolan said. 
age for the class of 1999 is 3.54, which is up from last year, according to Nolan. Five percent of those accepted were in the top one percent of their high school classes. Thirty-one percent were in the top ten per­cent and fifty-five percent were in the top 20 percent of their classes. 
Business administration is the most popular major among freshmen; though many women 
see SMCI page 6 


courtesy of Notre Dame Public Relations 

Expansion of Notre Dame Stadium will add 22,000 seats, a new press box and a new concourse. Construction, to begin in November after the last home football game, is set to be done by August 1997. 

Stadium tops campus projects 
1 :D0-6:00 p.m. 
5:30-6:30 p.m. ~:30 p.m. 8:00p.m. 9:30p.m. 9:45p.m. 
10:00 a.m. 
11:30 a.m. 12:15-1:15 p.m. 
1:30p.m. 1:30, 2:30p.m. 2:00, 2:45, 3:30, 
4:15p.m. 8:30p.m. 
8:D0-11 :00 p.m. 

* Official orientation program for first-year students and parents @ Joyce Center Dinner for students @ South Dining Hall Movie "Rudy" for family members @ Cushing Students meet with hall rectors and staff Evening dorm activities Movie "Knute Rockne: All American" for parents @ Cushing Hall 
Eucharistic Liturgy @ Joyce Center Picnic lunch @ Joyce Center Notre Dame Marching Band, Glee Club and Shenanigans, presentation by Student Body and introduction to Athletic Program Program for minority students and parents Campus tours will depart from Main Bldg. Programs on the Code of Honor@ Washington Hall Welcome back for all returning students @ Fieldhouse Mall Jamaica Shaka 

side of campus. 
The $50 million stadium pro­ject will begin after the final home game this season on November 4 against Navy. Af­ter the Irish battle the Mid­shipmen, workers will raze the existing press box and begin adding 26 rows of seats around the stadium. 
The additional rows will ex­tend the stadium upward and outward, but Mike Smith, 
sec STADIUM I page 8 
Main Building, residence halls also under construction 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
Associate News Editor 
59,075. 

It's a familiar number at the bottom of Notre Dame football game summaries found in newspapers. But after the ren­ovation and expansion of Notre Dame Stadium is completed be­fore the 1997 football season, that number will rise to about 81,000. 

The stadium is just one of several construction projects dotting the campus these days, including the renovation of the Main Building, the construction of Keough and O'Neill resi­dence halls, and even possibly a new golf course on the north 
9:00a.m., 
10:30a.m. 10:30-4:30 p.m. 7:00,8:00, 
9:00p.m. 
Small group discussions with faculty on academic life at Notre Dame Enrollment in alphabetical order Gender Issues: Myths vs. Reality @ Washington Hall 
8 a.m. Classes startl 

Saturday, August 19, 1995
page2 The Observer • INSIDE 
• 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
CarpeDiem before you're 
too old 

' What I wouldn't give to be in your shoes right now. The car is unpacked. You've got enough rolls of quarters 011 you to call China every day for the rest of your life. And all your laundry is clean. 
Relish it. Because 


before you know it, you'll  Krista Nannery  
be like me.  A senior.  Accent Editor  
You'll be talking about  

MCATs and LSATs and GREs. Career and Placement will be your second home. And you think you might actually miss the dining hall after you graduate. And you'll look at all the freshman moving in and you'll think to yourself, "God, I'm old." 
Now's your chance to start over. You've got a clean slate. No one cares about your SAT scores or whether you were valedictorian or salutatorian or even bottom of the barrel. College is an entirely different kettle of fish. Carpe Diem now, guys, because if you don't, it might just be too late. 
I am not going to debug the myths or let you in on any big secrets. That comes with the ter­ritory and you get the lucky job of figuring it all out for yourself. (Although, taking an umbrella with you wherever you go might be a really 8ood idea.) Before you know it, you'll be an expert at e-mail and DART and CBLD and the Transpo bus to the UP Mall. Soon enough, you'll be giving other people advice. 
This weekend is key for you. You get to meet lots of guys named Matt and lots of girls named Jen. Maybe you'll even meet that special some­one. (You'd be surprised at the number of cou­ples who met at the Graffiti Dance and the Luau!) You get to meet your roommate(s) who probably falls into one of two categories ... really cool or just a bit odd. You get to move into a room that 1s smaller and more crowded than the Apollo 13 space module. And you get to know the people who will be your friends for the rest of your life. 
College will be a major event in your life. You're about to meet more people whose last names begin with Me and 0 than you've ever met in your entire human existence. Soon, you'll find yourself depending on those dining hall theme nights to give yourself that extra lift. Your first off-campus party will be a major event in your life. (Kisses aren't contracts, kids.) And all-nighters in the 'Brare during finals, boy will that be fun! You'll fmd that you shouldn't ever pay more than $10 for a contra­band T -.shirt. (Remember, the University frowns on unofficial merchandising.) And par­ents, remember to send lots of care packages full of sugary, greasy treats every once in a while. Cash and checks are also appreciated. 
But this is the weekend that you leave your family and enter into a new one -the Notre Dame family. Membership lasts a lifetime and definitely has its privileges. (Plaid pants are recommended, but optional.) The post-gradua­tion years hold tailgaters and football games, kids and grandkids in tow. You will get shivers and goosebumps when you hear the alma mater. You'll have a friend in every city and reunions will be major occasions in your life. If you're lucky and do great things, they'll name a building after you. 
But that's the future and this is now. Take it slow and don't spend all your quarters in one place. Homesickness, if you've got it, will pass before you know it. Senior year you'll joke about how pathetic you were. Be young, have fun, drink (Pepsi) and don't let the moment pass you by. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily ~hose ofThe Observer. 
•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Graphics  
Dave Tyler  Tom Roland  
Brad Prendergast Ethan Hayward  Chris Mullins  
Sports Mike Norbut Tim Sherman Accent  Viewpoint Meaghan Smith Lab Tech Rob Finch  
Krista N annery  Mike Ruma  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is publishro Monday chrough Friday except during exam 2nd vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associatro Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• NOTRE DAME AT AGLANCE 

GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION 1995 FRESHMEN CLASS 
The map below shows the distribution by geographic 
region of incoming freshmen. 


The Observet1Christopher Mullins 

Hendricks appointed to planned giving 
Kenneth Hendricks, formerly a tax manager with Coopers and Lybrand, has been appointed assistant director of planned giving at the University of Notre Dame, according to Michelle Shakour, director of planned giving. A Chicago native, Hendricks was gradu­ated from Notre Dame in 1981 with an 


undergraduate degree in business· administration. In 1984 he was graduated from the Notre Dame Law School. Before joining Coopers and Lybrand in 1988, he worked for three years in Chicago with the Grant Thornton accounting firm. He has been active in several community service projects and is a member of the Protective Services Board of Logan. Hendricks lives in South Bend with his wife, the former Lori Goodin, who teaches special education at Coquillard School. They have three children. 
Weber appointed provost of SUNY 
Stephen Weber, a 1969 graduate of Notre Dame, has been appointed interim provost of the State University of New York, the world's largest university system with more than 391,700 students. Currently president of the SUNY campus in Oswego, Weber will serve as chief acad­emic officer for the system while a national search is conducted for a permanent replacement for Joseph Burke, the previous provost. Weber said he has no inter­est in holding the position permanently and will return to his present post when a new provost is appointed. Weber earned a doctorate in philosophy from Notre Dame and served as a teaching assistant at the University for three years. He is among more than two dozen Notre Dame alumni who preside as chief executive officers of American colleges and universities. 
West, O'Grady alumni board directors 
Roderick West, a 1990 graduate, became president of the board of directors of the Notre Dame Alumni Association on July 1. West, the youngest alumnus and the first African-American to head the 95,000-plus-mem­ber association, earned a law degree from Tulane University after majoring in American studies and finance at Notre Dame and was a member of the 1988 national championship football team. The president occupies ex officio positions on the University's Board of Trustees. In another action, the Alumni Association has created a new position on its board of directors to repre­sent the University's 2,139 graduates living in 112 coun­tries. Robert O'Grady, a 1963 alumnus, was appointed to a three-year term as the international representative on the board. O'Grady's appointment raises the number of alumni board members to 23. 
Spencer, Laux leaders in NACA 
Two staff members in the Office of Student Activities at the University Notre Dame have been appointed to lead­ership positions with the National Association for Campus Activities (NACA).Gayle Spencer, assistant di­rector of student activities, will serve as regional coordi­nator for the Illiana region of NACA, acting as a liaison between colleges and universities in Illinois and Indiana and the association's national office and board of direc­tors.Rob Laux, a program coordinator at Notre Dame, has been appointed chair of NACA's Commission for Campus Activities. The commission offers learning opportunities, resources, and services to college and uni­versity student activities administrators.NACA is a national organization of more than 1 ,200 institutions of higher learning and 580 talent rrrms in the United States and Canada. Headquartered in Columbia, S.C., the or­ganization provides education, information, resources to students and professional staff. Spencer and Laux will serve during the 1995-96 academic year. 



Saturday, August 19, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
Cavanaugh conversion still creates dorm pinch 
By ETHAN HAYWARD 
Assistant News Editor 
Two years after the fact, Ca­vanaugh Hall's conversion to a female dorm has caused an­other overflow in male student housing. For the second year in a row, there will be students living in the study lounges of Grace and Flanner. 
The overflow is due to the ac­ceptance of a larger-than-aver­age freshman class, which is required to live on-campus, as well as an effort to keep the m!lle and female waiting lists at a fairly even level. 
Presently. both male and female housing are filled at least to capacity. 
·As a result, there will be 40 male freshmen calling study lounges home, and not in the figurative sense that they spend the majority of their time hitting the books. 
"It's a situation that's not op­timum, but we can live with it," says Grace Hall rector Fr. Ter­ence Linton. Citing that this is Grace's last year as a dormito­ry, Linton remarked, "This is the last year we'll have that problem." 
Flanner Hall rector Fr. William Seetch says the hous­ing shortage is not an ideal sit­uation, "but you do what you can to help out." 
Seetch says that many stu­dents have enjoyed living in the lounges due to their larger size. 
He notes that some returning students have even asked if they could choose the rooms as future residences. 





Rita case goes to an appeal 
By DAVE TYLER 
News Editor 
The retrial of a Notre Dame law school graduate on a charge related to the death of a freshman in 1993 has been postponed while the Indiana Court of Appeals reviews de­fense motions in the case. 
John Rita, a 1994 graduate of the Law School stands accused of leaving the scene of the November 13, 1993, accident that killed Mara Fox, 18, of Oakton, Virginia. Rita, 25, was acquitted by a jury in 1994 of a charge of causing a death while driving drunk. 
The jury deadlocked on the leaving the scene charge, caus­ing St. Joseph County Superior Court Judge William Albright to declare a mistrial. County Prosecutor Michael Barnes then petitioned the judge for a retrial. 

R
ichard P McBrien, author of Catholicism: and an editorial team from the University of Notre Dame present the most compre­hensive, easy-to-use guide to the people and forces that have shaped the Church for over nearly two millennia. 
The HarperCollins Encyclopedia of Catholicism is both a concise guide for understanding catholic terms and names, and a resource for better understanding the changes and trends in the Church today. Including more than 4,200 entries written by 280 lead­ing experts from around the world and across the theological spectrum, it offers a balanced perspective on subjects rang­ing from the seven sacraments, Jesus, the Holy Spirit, the Blessed Virgin Mary, Peter, Paul, Augustine, and Aquinas, to prayer, Christian spirituality, women in the Church, and Vatican II. 
"The most assiduous student of Catholicism, inside and outside the church, will be hard­pressed to name a relevant topic, large or small, that hasn't been included in this book." -Theodore Hesburgh 
Hardcover
1: HarperSanFrancisco 
Until August 31, 1995: $39.95 
A Dn-'JSwn of HarperColliruPubluhen 
Also .variable from liarperCollinsc;.,.,J.,Lrd 

(Regular Price: $45.00) 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
announces 

Opening Reception and Auditions for Theatrical Productions 
All persons interested in information about theatre currkulum or productions are invited 
Reception: Wednesday, August 23, 6:00PM Washington Hall--Laboratory Theatre (North Entrance) 
Auditions for The Imaginary Invalid by Moliere and Six Degrees of Separation by John Guare Wednesday, August 23 post reception and Thursday, August 24 

Call631-5956 or 631-7054 for details 
This past May Albright per­mitted Rita and his attorney Charles Asher to initiate. an in­terlocutory appeal of several pretrial motions before the sec­ond trial commences. That trial was to have begun on August 7. but the appeal has pushed that date back at least six months, and possibly up to a year. 
In his ruling Albright noted that there are "substantial questions of law whose deter­mination can expedite or even terminate the second trial." 
Albright specifically allowed Asher to appeal the judge's denial of motions to dismiss the case, to limit the use of the windshield of Rita's car as evi­dence, and to allow the defense to issue investigative subpoe­nas. 
The defense has argued that the windshield and police pho­tographs of it should not be admitted as evidence. Asher maintains that the windshield has been damaged and altered by its removal from Rita's car and subsequent moves. 
Earlier this year. Albright 

granted a prosecution request to amend the charge in the sec­ond trial to reflect a failure by Rita to "return to" the scene ·and "render aid" to the victim. In his most recent ruling Al­bright said the prosecution did not advance that theory in the 
first trial. 
"The danger is that conclud­
ing a second trial upon the 
amended charge resulting in a 
general verdict of guilt is 
fraught with uncertainty... A 
ruling on the amendment is 
needed," Albright said. 
The judge also stated that a 
normal appeals process may be 
inadequate for this situation. 
and would possibly necessitate 
a third trial. 
Barnes has turned all of his 
office's files over to the Indiana 
Attorney General, who is 
pursuing the appeal. 
The South Bend Tribune con­tributed to this report. 

Holy Cross fourth floor new senior 'mini-dorm' 
ByPAITI CARSON 
Saint Mary's Editor 
This year marks a new lifestyle for the seniors living on the fourth floor of Holy Cross Hall. It is the frrst year for the new form of senior housing at Saint Mary's. 
Augusta Hall. the dorm which used to house many senior stu­dents. was returned to the Sis­ters of the Holy Cross for reno­vations. The renovations are necessary to convert the dorm back into a retirement home for Sisters from all over the country. according to Pam Miller, Housing Director at Saint Mary's College. 
45 women have opted to live in the new section zoned espe­cially for seniors. according to Rachel Tenyer, Residential Director of Holy Cross Hall. While all policies in the student handbook still apply to the se­niors. they do gain some special privileges by living on the fourth floor. 
First, the opportunity to live there is unique because it lends itself to creating a community environment since all these seniors will live on the same floor, Tenyer said. Augusta rooms were spread out over four floors, Tenyer added. 
Also. the college has pur­chased new lamps, a television, sofa, tables, and other novelties for the lounge on the fourth floor. which commonly used to be referred to as "the barn," since it housed five students be­fore the conversion. Room 411 will contain a large refrigerator and freezer and there will also be two coin operated washers and dryers there. The fourth floor rooms also have new beds and they have been painted and touched up recently. 
Another privilege for fourth floor seniors is 24 hour access through the North Detex Door. Their identification cards will have slightly different security codes from those of other stu­dents. 
The fourth floor "mini-dorm" also has its own hall council which consists of Betsy Killian. president, Heather Durie, vice­president. Kelly McDevitt, sec­retary, and Paulettee Raczkowski, treasurer. The two resident advisors on the floor are Teresa Raddostits and Julie Powell. 




Page4 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Saturday, August 19, 1995 

-~­

Saturday, August 19, 1995 
The Observer • NEWS page5 
RAs praise workshop on sexual orientation 

Training stems from GLND/SMC controversy 
By ETHAN HAYWARD Assistant News Editor 
In response to the issues raised during last year's debate over the Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame/Saint Mary's College (GLND/SMC), the administration has decided to implement a workshop on sensitivity toward sexual orien­tation as a part of resident assistant"training. 
The workshop was one of a number of programs this year's RAs attended. Among the other areas dealt with were alcohol use, gender issues, and sexual assault. 
Ann Firth, Assistant to the Vice President of Student M­fairs and chair of the Ad Hoc Committee on Gay/Lesbian Stu­dent Needs, headed the RA workshop on gay and lesbian sensitivity. 
The point of the program was to provide RAs with infor­mation and skills to help wel­come and support students who may be homosexual or may be struggling with issues of sexual identity. 
The workshop consisted of a wide panel of presenters, in­eluding a professor from the theology department who dis­c.ussed th~ Catholic Church's ethical tradition in dealing with issues of homosexuality; personnel from Campus Ministry. who discussed their outreach efforts toward Notre Dame's gay and lesbian com­munity; personnel from the Counseling Center; and two students who related their experiences with being homo­sexual and Notre Dame under­graduates. 
Ben Huser, an RA from Flan­ner Hall, thought the student portion of the program the most enlightening. 
He said their discussion made him realize how daunt­ing their experiences had been and how important it is for gay students to know that they have someone to whom they can look for support. 
Jeff Wojcik, another Flanner RA, found the program benefi­cial, especially in light of the conflict raised last year by GLNDISMC's efforts to gain of­ficial recognition from the Uni­versity. 
He said it was especially helpful to hear the perspective of the students rather than just that of the committee mem­bers. 
Shiela Zachman, an RA from Siegfried, called the experience an ..extremely good program'", despite the fact that the Uni­versity personnel did not actu­ally deal with the issue of rec­ognizing GLNDISMC. 
She said it was beneficial to be able to see the sense of iso­lation felt by many homosexual students, and that this in turn would enable RAs to make such freshmen more at ease. 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 

Next time we're renting aU-haul 
Cori Casey, a freshman from Iowa, and her father begin the arduous process of moving into her room in Breen-Phillips Hall. 



Fuentes not a replacement 
ByJENNIFER LEWIS Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Author, statesman and schol­ar, Carlos Fuentes will begin the Multicultural week at Saint Mary's on Saturday, Sept. 30, at 7:30 p.m. in the O'Laughlin Auditorium of the Moreau Center. Contrary to rumors that have been circulating, Fuentes is not scheduled as a replace­ment for Maya Angelou, who canceled her commitment with Saint Mary's twice last spring. Angelou is not rescheduled to appear at Saint Mary's at any time during the academic year. 
According to Dennis Andres. Director of Special Events, there is no bitterness about An­gelou canceling at the last minute. Saint Mary's under­stands that Angelou leads a busy life and unexpected events do occur. Andres said. 
Alex Fish, a transfer student at Saint Mary's from Stephens College, said Angelou was scheduled to speak at Stephens in the spring of 1994 and can­celed the day before. Stephens chose not to reschedule. 
..1still respect Angelou as an author, but I am disappointed by her inconsideration for her readers," said Fish. 
Multicultural Affairs is proud to announce Fuentes as an ad­dition to the speakers for the fall of 1995 multicultural week, Andres said. Author of ..The Hydra Head," ..Aura," and ..The Death of Artemio Cruz." Fuentes is a wide-ranging fic­tion novelist. 
However, he is most notori­ous for being the first Mexican author to become a best-seDer in the United States for his novel, ..Old Gringo." Fuentes increased his popularity in the United States when Jane Fonda and Gregory Peck recreated the movie version of ..Old Gringo" on the silver screen. 
Fuentes will speak about his literary fame and his political involvement as Mexico's ambassador to France. 

4 Goon REASONS To CALL THE HuDDLE FOR DELIVERY 


r-----------,
$4 DEAL --; 
----~·
I I I
I 
Any U:lrge 14" Cheese Pizza Only $5 lArge 14" Cheese Pizza Only $4
I I I I
The Best Pizza at the Best Price 
Now, That's a Deal! Calll-6902
I I Ca/11-6902
-1 I -1I 
OFFER EXPIRES 1'1116195 OFFER EXPIRES 12/16195

1---,--------1----------­
_, .-.:. I 
-·-.. -DOUBLE UEAL-­
~­
I I I I 
I 
21Arge 14" Unlimited Topping PiZZJlS You get 2 lArge 14" 1 item and a 2-liter Coke Product Only $10 I I PizztUfor Only $9 I Calll-6902 Ca/11-6902
I I I I 
OFFER EXPIRES 12/16195 OFFER EXPIRES 12/16195
.J .J
L L 
CALL THE HUDDLE AT 1-6902 
We'll meet or beat any competitors coupon or deal, just call us and ask. We Deliver 7 days a week-lunch, dinner and late nite. 
• 
page6 The Observer • NEWS Saturday, August 19, 1995 
to 19th in U.S. News and World Report's rankings of the United States best colleges also helped boost the quality of 

Notre Dame welcomes SMC ND 
continued from page 1 continued from page 1 
applicants. said Rooney. 

155 transfer students 
Arts & Letters, Business School admit most 
By DAVE 1YLER News Editor 
Freshmen will not be the only new students on campus this week. 
The University of Notre Dame will welcome about 155 trans­fer students to the school for the fall semester according to Kevin Rooney, director of Notre Dame admissions. 
The number is down from last year's 175, but Rooney said the incoming transfers repre­sented a "typical year for us." The transfer students are com­promised of juniors and sopho-


McMullin 
•


receives doctorate 
Special to The Observer 
Father Ernan McMullin, John Cardinal O'Hara professor emeritus of philosophy at the University.of Notre Dame, has received an honorary doctoral degree from Maynooth College, Ireland's national seminary. 
Fr. McMullin, a member of Notre Dame's faculty since 1954, received the degree dur­ing a convocation last April in Maynooth. 
The college has scheduled three such events to honor its distinguished alumni this year, the second century of its fou.""l­dation. 
A native of Donegal, Ireland, Fr. McMullin received degrees in physics and theology from Maynooth in 1945 and 1948, respectively He also did gradu­ate work in physics at the Insti­tute of Advanced Studies in Dublin before going to the Uni­versity of Louvain, from which he received a doctoral degree in philosophy in 1954. 

.. An internationally prominent scholar in the philosophy of science, Fr.· McMullin chaired Notre Dame's philosophy de­partment from 1965-72. He has published numerous arti­cles in popular and scholarly journals and has written and edited several books including "The Concept of Matter"; "Galileo. Man of Science"; "Newton on Matter and Activity"; "The Concept of Matter in Modern Philosophy"; "Death and Decision"; "Issues in Computer Diagnosis"; and "Evolution and Creation." He is also the only person ever to have been elected pres­ident of all the following orga­nizations: the American Philosophical Association, the Philosophy of Science Association, the Metaphysical Society of America and the American Catholic Philosophi­cal Association. Among those honored with Fr. McMullin during the same ceremony was.John Hume, the peace activist. 


mores, and come from a vari­ety of four-year and two-year schools. 
For the third year in a row, the College of Arts and Letters admitted the largest number of transfer students, followed closely by the College of Busi­ness Administration. 
The College of Arts and Let­ters admitted 63 students as transfers, and the College of Business Administration admit­ted 54. 
The College of Science admit­ted 21, College of Engineering, 
12. and the College of Architecture. 5. 
An Orientation Committee, composed of students who have transferred to Notre Dame, is over-seeing the welcome for these new transfer students. 
"It really helps them adjust," said Rooney. "It's a valuable service." 
might change their minds before actually declaring their majors at the end of the sopho­more year. according to Nolan. 
The regional breakdown of incoming freshmen is very similar to the class of 1998: 
• 
75 percent from the Mid­west 

• 
Nine percent from the South 

• 
Eight percent in the Middle States 

• Five percent from the West 

• 
One percent from the Southwest 

• 
One percent from New England 

• 
One percent is made up of international students 


"Incidentally. 18 percent of the freshman class is alumnae related, whether by a single connection or a multiple con­nection, .. Nolan said. 
on the Scholastic Aptitude Test 
(SAT}, according to Rooney. 
The previous high SAT score 
for an incoming class was 
1222. 

"This is a sizable step for­
ward," said Rooney. "It shows 
the high quality of our appli­
cant pool." 

Rooney said several factors 
contributed to the size and 
quality of the incoming class. 
"For the first time we orga­
nized a group of 40 volunteer , Notre Dame student ambas­sadors who called a large num­ber of our most talented prospects and gave them their personal perspectives on the 
University." 

The program was aimed at a 
specific group of high school 
students, Rooney said, ..and we 
think it contributed greatly to 
the quality of the applicant 
pool." 

Notre Dame's jump from 25th 
..The perceived academic quality of an institution is a most important factor in how prospective students make their college choices," he said. 
..The U.S. News rankings seem to play a significant role for some students and their parents." 
Other interesting facts about this year's freshman class: 
• 
The class of 1999 is ex­pected to have a male-to­female ratio of 54% to 46%. 

• 
This year's record number of applicants exceeds a record set in 1989 of9,931. 

• 
A full 40% of the freshman class hails from the Midwest. 26% are from Eastern states, 13% from the West. 10% from the Southeast, 7% from the Southwest. and 4% are either foreign citizens or citizens of United States territories, or 


U.S. citizens living abroad. 


~--------------~~--------.. 
-------------~-~--~-------···~-­
Saturday, August 19, 199 5 
Sorin almost goes co-ed after data entry mistake 
By ETHAN HAYWARD 
Assistant News Editor 
An error in data entry almost became a reenactment of the Threesome plotline, or in this case a foursome. 
Over the summer, two male freshmen and two female freshmen with gender-am­biguous names were placed to­gether in a quad in Sarin Hall. Student Residences Director Kevin Cannon asserts that there has been no change in housing policy and that the whole incident was a mistake. 
H seems almost fitting that one of the nation's first college dormitories would be one of the first at Notre Dame to bridge the gender gap. 
"Sorin blazes a trail once again," laughs Sorin's rector, Fr. Steve Newton. "We're the first dorm to go coed. But it only lasted about a week." 
According to Fr. Newton, stu­dent residence workers ne­glected to check the gender en­tries on the two women's tran­scripts when assigning them housing. The mistake was brought to the department's attention when one of the fe­male students called the office to confirm whether Sarin was a male dorm or if it had followed Pangborn and Cavanaugh in a rash of gender conversions. 


The Observer 
News Department is now accepting applications for the folloiwng paid positions: 
Associate New-s Editor Assistant NeW"s Editor Chief Copy Editor Copy Editor 
Interested? Submit a brief resume & personal 
statement to Dave Tyler by Friday August 25rh Questions? Call Dave@ 1-5323 
The Observer • NEWS page 7 

The Observer/Mike Ruma 

Blowing their own horns 
These marching band members exercise their lungs and their legs during a recent practice. 
Football ticket price rises 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
Associate News Editor 
Student season football tick­ets, to go on sale Tuesday, Au­gust 29, will cost $6 more than last year, the ticket office has announced. 
All Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are guaranteed tickets to this year's six home games. 
Ticket booklets for the 1995 season can be purchased for $90 for Notre Dame students and $120 for Saint Mary's stu­dents, to be paid in the form of cash or check. 
Students residing in the dorms will receive ticket appli­cations in the mail in the com­ing week. Off-campus students can pick up their applications at the second floor ticket office of the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center until Monday, August 28. Off-cam­pus seniors can also pick up their applications at the same time they purchase their tickets on Tuesday, August 29. 
To obtain ticket booklets, stu­dents should bring their ticket applications, payment, and stu­dent 10 to Gate 10 of the JACC. 
Seniors can do so on Tuesday, August 29, from 8 
a.m. to 5 p.m.; juniors on Wednesday from 7 a.m. to 2 p.m.; law and graduate stu­dents on Wednesday from 2 
p.m. to 7 p.m.; sophomores on Thursday from 7 a.m. to 2 p.m.; and freshmen on Thursday from 2 p.m. to 7 p.m. 
Students in line to purchase tickets can present up to four ticket applications and IDs. 
AEROBICS SCHEDULE FALL, 1995 .lOYCE CENTER CLASSES 1 4:00-5:00 STEP Gym 1 M/W $23 2 4:10-5:10 Hi Intensity Gym2 M/W $18 3 5:20-6:20 STEP Gym 1 M/W $23 4 5:20-6:20 Body Toning Gym 2 M/W $18 5 4:15-5:15 STEP Gym 1 Tffh $23 6 4:15-5:15 Hi Intensity Gym2 Tffh $18 7 5:30-6:30 Combo Gym 1 Tffh $18 8 5:30-6:30 Lo Impact Gym2 Tffh $18 ROCKNE CLASSES 9 12:15-12:45 Beg. STEP 219 MJWIF $23 10 4:00-5:00 STEP 301 MJWIF $35 11 5:20-6:20 STEP 301 M/W $23 12 9:00-10:00 Combo 301 M/W $18 13* 12:15-12:45 STEP!Lo 219 Tffh $20 14 4:15-5:15 STEP 301 Tffh $23 $2315 5:30-6:30 STEP 301 Tffh 16 9:00-10:00 STEP 301 Tffh $23 17 5:30-6:30 STEP 301 F $12 18 4:00-4:30 Interval Aer. 301 Su $12 19 4:40-5:10 Adv. Abs 301 Su $12 20 5:20-6:20 STEP 301 Su $12 ROLFS ~LASSES 21 12:15-12:45 Aquacise l\1/W/F $15 22 6:45-7:45 Aquacise Tffh $15 WORK iN your WORKOUT with the Fall, 1995 Challenge U aerobics schedule. Registration begins August 22, 7:30am in the hallway south of the RecSports office. Classes begin August 28. All classes are coed. *Class is dependent on PE schedule. Please call RecSports at 631-6100 with any questions.  

Emerson endows fund 
for MBA scholarship 
Special to The Observer 

Notre Dame has received a $100,000 commitment from the Emerson Electric Company of St. Louis to establish a schol­arship program for interna­tional students pursuing a master's of business adminis­tration degree. 
"We are grateful for the gen­erosity of the Emerson Electric Company," said Fr. Edward Malloy, president of Notre Dame. "its commitment will greatly enhance the diversity and hence the attractiveness of our MBA program." 
"We at Emerson are pleased to support the outstanding, in­novative business school pro­grams at the University," said James Berges, executive presi­dent of Emerson Electric. 
The Emerson Electric schol­arships will cover tuition and summer internships for sec­ond-year MBA students, par­ticularly from Latin America and the Asian Rim. 
A recent survey in Business Week magazine included Notre Dame's MBA program among the "up-and-comer schools" which feature creative curricu­la that enhance the relevance of an MBA degree. The Notre Dame program impressed Business Week with its empha­sis on ethics and the loyalty of its alumni in job searches. 
Headquartered in St. Louis, Emerson Electric is a world­wide manufacturer of a wide range of electrical and elec­tronic products and systems. 
•

• 
Biathlon
•
• 

•• &
•
•

• Beach Party 
•
•

• Saturday, August 26
•

• 10:30 AM at St. Joe Beach 
• 

: It is not Necessary to Compete in the Biathlon to Take Part in the Beach Party! : 
••••••••••••••••••••••••••o•••••••••••• 
~-·-.:.-,= ·-,.. ----·­

·-----------. ------------------·---------·-------------·--------------------------------------­


pageS 

Slated to open in August 1996, Keough and O'Neill Halls


Stadium 

will include more social areas 
than existing dorms and a first
continued from page 1 

floor room to be used as a com­puter lab, according to. Smith. 
director of facilities engineering "There are going to be socialfor the University, says that the spaces in each section on eachview of Touchdown Jesus will floor." Smith said, "as well asnot be completely obstructed an overall dorm social space."

from within the facility. 

Each dorm room will also be
"If at the south end of the 

wired for direct connection with 
field you can see Touchdown 

the campus computer network.
Jesus from rows 30 and up 

The exterior of the residencesnow, then you'll still be able to 
will maintain the architecture
see it from about 30 more rows style of that area of campusup after expansion," he said. 

Smith said. ' A new wall will be construct­"Each dorm will have slopeded around the stadium, and the slate roofs like Alumni and Dil­area between the new wall and lon, but without the detail," he
the present wall will become said. "It will be a modern

the new concourse. 

building that is still sensitive to"The new concourse will have the area in which it's built."
an upper and lower level, and The addition of the two dormswithin this new expansion there to the south side of campus will

will be additional restroom 

also cause some changes to the
facilities and concession 

physical structure of South Din­stands," Smith told Blue & Gold ing Hall in order to handle theIllustrated. "The existing con­
influx of students. The Oak
course will still be there after Room may be moved to an ad­the renovation, but it will serve dition at the rear of the building as just a gathering area.n 

to create more space for the
Although the preferred seat­
dining hall. 
ing areas in the first few rows "Something is definitely going will be furnished with theater­to be added to the back of thetype seats, all seats in the ex­building," Ronald Athey, assis­panded area will be bleachers. These new bleacher seats will have an extra inch of space on each side and another six inch­es of leg room. 

Among the other changes to the stadium is the new press box, which will be enlarged but will retain the same three levels that it now has. Instead of keeping parking spaces directly around the stadium, that area will be landscaped. Additional parking spaces will be added to the south of the stadium. 
Construction will continue through the 1996 football sea­son. but. pr.ec.autions will be taken to. ensure the safety of the stadium, Smith said. 
If stadium workers ever need ~caffolding to begin their pro­Ject, they need to look no fur­ther than the Main Building where the support structure~ have been up since the early part of the summer. 

Since May workers have been cleaning the 4.3 million bricks of the Main Building and preparing to replace the win­dows and roof in an ongoing exterior renovation expected to last until August 1996. SALE 44.99 
The renovation, which costs SAVANNAH $5 million, will also include --~ electrical and mechanical modi­fications and a cleaning of the base of the statue of Mary on the top of the dome. "We plan to make the colors on the hoods over the windows darker." Smith said, "and the front porch will be repainted." 
·Following the construction of Keough and O'Neill Halls on the south side of campus and the movement of students from Grace Hall to the new dorms in August 1996. the offices within the Main Building will be moved to Grace, and an interior renovation will begin. 
Expected to last from summer 
1997 to summer 1999. the inte­
rior renovation will include a 
restoration of the building's 
murals and paintings and a 
rehabilitation of the fifth floor 
which is currently unused and 
closed to the public because of 
serious structural damage. 
Three classrooms will be 
added, and some of the current 
offices, such as the Registrar's 
Office, will be rebuilt, Smith 
told The Observer in May. 
"The functions of the offices 
have changed over time " he 
said. "They need to be updated 
as technology changes and as 
their roles change." 
South of South Dining Hall, 
across Dorr Road, construction 
continues on the new residence 
halls that will house the Grace 
Hall residents. 

The Observer • NEWS 

W k h 1 "d · The Observer/Mike Ruma 
or ers ave a1 1n the foundations for Notre Dame's new dormitories and have begun work on their superstructure. 
ta1_1t di~ector of food services, from South Dining Hall to the said. We want to make the main gate will be permanently back cosmetically beautiful for closed so that the new dorms t~e s~u,?ents who will live be-are not separated from the rest hmd It. . of campus. Service drives will The sectiOn of Dorr Road remain open to allow delivery 

Saturday, August 19, 1995 
trucks to reach the dining hall. 

A new road will be built that will lead from a point south of the Morris Inn, along the west side of the new dorms, to a point behind Pangborn Hall. 
Two additional dorms may later be added to the area where the new dorms will be located. These two dorms would be female dorms and would house the residents from two of Mod Quad's female dorms, which would then be converted into male dorms to preserve the male-female ratios on both the north and south sides of campus. 
Because Keough and O'Neill Halls are being built on land formerly used by the golf course, which was reduced to n~e holes, plans are tentatively bemg made to build a new course north of Douglas Road. Ben Crenshaw. a professional golfer and course architect, walked over the land this sum­mer to determine if and how a course could be built there. 
Plans for the golf course would not begin until the pre­sent projects on campus are wrapped up. 
"Nothing will happen within the next five years," Smith said. 
SALE59.99 COMMUTER BRIEF 
Saturday, August 19, 1995 
The Observer • NEWS page 9 

MacLeod contributes 
Gift endowes Dante studies 
new ND scholarship 
Special to The Observer standing individuals involved in 
University of Notre Dame head basketball coach John MacLeod has given $100,000 to the University to establish an academic scholarship endow­ment to be known as the Coach John MacLeod Scholarship Fund. 
In accordance with MacLeod's wishes, preference in the awarding of these schol­arships will be given to minori­ty students in need of financial assistance. 
"Having come from a family with limited financial resources, I can appreciate what a struggle it is to pay for a college education today," MacLeod said in announcing his gift. 
"Basketball has been good to me and to many others, but the great need today is for finan­cial aid for deserving students who are not athletes. 
This gift is my contribution to meeting that need by putting something back into a great University." 
"We always have had out-sports, but in recent years not all of the publicity we've re­ceived has been positive," MacLeod added. 
"This is my way of attempt­ing to offset some of the nega­tive perceptions that exist, and I hope also that it may motivate others who have benefited from intercollegiate athletics to take similar action." 
"This is a welcome and a sig­nificant gift both for the aid it will provide to deserving minority students and for the statement it makes in John MacLeod's name." said Fr. William Beauchamp, the Uni­versity's executive vice presi­dent. 
"In making Notre Dame's top fund-raising priority his own, John has demonstrated that his commitment to the University reaches beyond the basketball court and to the heart of our educational mission. It is a matter of special pride to us that our coaches support the academic aims of the University." 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame has received a $1 million gift from William and Katherine Devers of Winnetka, Ill.. to es­tablish a program in Dante studies. 
/"".._-~t?J~···jt'·:"'""-~-.. mas · r•s · · 9.....·"""'
"We are deeply grateful to 
Gates> ~. a198l fromlndianaUniversity. ·>·Bill and Kitty Devers for the graduate of the University of Most recently. Gates h8$,,di• generosity and foresight of this Notre Dame. has been ap-rected the Legal Information
benefaction," said Notre 
pointed librarian of the Center at the'"lJriiversity ·ofDame's president Fr. Edward 
Na,titltU\1 Basebfdl Hall ofFame ,@ FlQrida. H~ .·previously·.served
Malloy. 
Library/(. & 'WArcltives· in · as assistB.Il.~ @::ector for. ....·. · 
"Our library's Dante col­
Cooperstown, N.Y., according cal .service$ 'at Notre ..
lection already attracts 
to )tail president Donald Marr. Law Uhracy and as director .
international scholarly atten­Gates earned a mastees de-· technical· services at Btion, and the William and Katherine Devers Program in gr~e. in fove~ent a.nd inter~.•.. Universit.y.'s Pap·p··as Law·.•••.. '·' 
'

brary. .. xw . . . . ... 
Gates assumed his new sponsibilitiesin'J, · 
development of graduate edu­cation in Dante scholarship. 
The inauguration of the pro­gram, during the 1996 spring semester. will include seminars and workshops on Dante, exhi­bitions at the Snite museum and the Hesburgh Ubrary, and several other public events. 
Notre Dame's Zahm Dante collection, consisting of more than 400 volumes, includ,es nine incunable (pre-1501) edi­tions of the Divine Comedy. 
• OBITUARiES 
Edward Murphy 
Edward Murphy, the John N. Matthews emeritus professor of law at Notre Dame, died July 24 after an illness. He was 68. 
A native of Springfield, Ill., Murphy joined the faculty in 1957 and taught classes in con­tracts, jurisprudence, nego­tiable instruments and reme­dies. 
He served as the law school's acting dean in 1971 and di­rected the University's summer program in Japan in 1974. He also was co-editor of the American Journal of Jurisprudence and co-author of two books. 
When he retired last year, Murphy had taught more stu­dents than any professor in the law school's 125-year history. 
A prominent and outspoken advocate of pro-life causes, Murphy joined six other Notre Dame law school faculty mem­bers two years ago to denounce President Clinton's executive order rescinding the so-called "gag rule" that barred abortion counseling by institutions re­ceiving federal family planning funds. 
Murphy is survived by his wife, Mary, nine children, and numerous grandchildren. 
Dominic Lizzardo 
Dominic Uzzardo, an alum­nus and benefactor of Notre Dame, died this summer. 
A native of Baragiano, Italy, Lizzardo graduated from Notre Dame in 1933 with a bachelor's degree in business administration. 
He worked as an examiner for Illinois Insurance Department until 1949 when he formed his own company, Industrial Fire and Casualty, in Oak Park, Ill. He retired as the company's president in 1985. 
Among his benefactions to the University are a professor­ship in accountancy named af­ter his parents, Vincent and Rose, and the Lizzardo Mag­netic Resonance Center. 
Notre Dame president Fr. Edward Malloy presided at the funeral Mass July 26 in Oak Park. 
Dante Studies will help secure the University's international distinction as a leading center in Dante studies." 
William Devers is president of Devers Group. Inc., a consor­tium of computer companies providing application software to publishing, utility, and other diverse industries. He also is a member of the advisory council for Notre Dame's College of En­gineering. He and his wife have four children, one of whom, Connie Devers, graduated from the Notre Dame Law School in 1990. 
The Devers' gift will expand 
nationa studtes from Notre '? Dame. He received a bache-'" lor·~_degree from Belmont,;.. 
Notre Dame's Zahm Dante col­lection, fund an annual visiting professorship in Dante studies and support electronic and print publication, by the Uni­versity of Notre Dame Press, of a regular series in Dante stud­ies. 
In addition to its benefits for some 500 Notre Dame under­graduates who each semester encounter Dante's writing through a variety of courses, it will accelerate Notre Dame's 



-------------~~~---~ 
--~------~------~~~--~--~------~~----~ 
Saturday, August 19, 1995 
Page 10 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


, 
H 
8/18 8/19 8/21 
8/22 
8/23 
8/24 
8/25 


Friday Saturday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
• 9am-6pm • 9am-6pm • 9am-6pm • 9am-6pm • 9am-6pm • 9am-6pm • 9am-6pm 
Saturday, August 19, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 11 


Lockheed donates $56,000 
Special to The Observer 
Lockheed Martin Corp., the result of the recent merger be­tween Martin Marietta and Lockheed corporations, has given the University a $50,000 grant for electrical engineering research and $6,000 for a mi­nority engineering scholarship. 
The research grant will help support a graduate student performing research in com­pressed imaging transmission under the direction of Yih-Fang Huang, professor of electrical engineering, who is undertak­ing research to develop a reli­able system for transmitting images over noisy communica­tion channels. 
The $6,000 minority engi­neering grant will help provide scholarships for students in the University's Minority Engineer­ing Program. The scholarships will go to students with finan­cial need and academic ability in computer science, and elec­trical and computer engineer­ing. 

Special to The Observer 
Sixteen members of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame faculty have been advanced to emeri­tus rank, and 43 others have been promoted, including an appointment to an endowed chair. 
The new faculty emeriti are Esmee Bellalta, associate pro­fessor of architecture; Edgar Ber,ners, faculty fellow in physics; Paul Chagnon, profes­sor of physics; Isabel Charles, associate provost and director of international study pro­grams; Philip Faccenda, retired vice-president and general counsel and concurrent profes­sor of law; Jeremiah Freeman, professor of chemistry and bio­chemistry; Edward Goerner, professor of government and international studies. 
Also, Francis Kobayashi, re­tired assistant vice-president for research and professor of aerospace and mechanical en­
The Observer/Mike Ruma 
gineering; James Kohn, pro­
Reaching new heights 
fessor of chemical engineering; Kenneth Lauer, professor of
Dom Fahey, a sophomore, works on his loft with his roommate in 
civil engineering and geological 
Sarin Hall. 
sciences; Phyllis Luckert, asso­
k:. a college student, the Chicago Tribune knows your time and money are valuable. That's why we bring the world to you with all the regional, national and inter­national news you want at a price you can afford. 


59 faculty members receive promotions 
and received tenure. 
Also receiving tenure are Jimmy Gurule and Jay Tid­marsh. associate professors of law. 
New associate professors with tenure, promoted from assistant professor, are Fr. Joseph Amar, classical and ori­ental languages and literatures; Marian David, philosophy; Julia Douthwaite, romance lan­guages and literatures; Kim­berly Gray, civil engineering and geological sciences; Davide Hill, chemical engineering; Alexandrou Himonas, mathe­matics; David Hyde, biological sciences; Dennis Jacobs, chem­istry and biochemistry; Gary Lamberti, biological sciences; Joseph Powers, aerospace and mechanical engineering; Kath­leen Pyne, art, art history, and design; William Ramsey, phi­losophy; Joachim Rosenthal. mathematics; Ken Sauer, elec­trical engineering; Gregory Sterling, theology; Mitchell Wayne, physics; Joannes West­erink, civil engineering and geological sciences; and Ewa Ziarek, English. 
Other promotions include Angie Ricks Chamblee to asso­ciate dean of Freshman Year of Studies and Joanne Bessler, Katharina Blackstead, and Louis Jordan Ill, all of Univer­sity libraries, to librarian. 
Mary English and Laura Sill, University libraries, have been promoted to associate librarians, and Fr. Eugene Gorski, theology, has been pro­moted to professional special­ist. Promoted to associate pro­fessional specialists are Douglas Bradley, Snite Museum of Art; Jay Brandenberger, Center for Social Concerns; Ruthann Johansen, arts and letters core course; Kay Stewart, biological sciences; and Kern Trembath, theology. Karen Morris. chemistry and biochemistry, has been promot­ed to assistant professional spe­cialist. 
Faculty honored for 25 years of service were Subhash Basu; James Bellis; Joseph Blenkinsopp; Francis Castellino; Richard Emge; Brother Louis Hurcik; David Link; Kenneth Moore; Leon John Roos; W. Robert Scheidt; and J. Kerry Thomas. 

ciate professional specialist in the Lobund Laboratory; Fr. Marvin O'Connell, professor of history; Daniel Pasto, professor of chemistry and biochemistry; Konrad Schaum, professor of German and Russian languages and literatures; Walter Tomasch, professor of physics; and Edward Ulicny, staff pro­fessional specialist in the Radiation Laboratory. 
David Ricchiute was recog­nized for having been named Deloitte & Touche professor of accountancy in January. 
Advanced to the rank of professor from associate pro­fessor are Howard Blackstead. physics; Thomas Cosimano, fi­nance and business economics; Christopher Fox, English; Mark Jordan, Medieval Institute; Leon John Roos, government and international studies; Robert Schmuhl, American studies; Steven Skaar, aero­space and mechanical en­gineering; and Billie Spencer. Jr., civil engineering and geo­logical sciences. 
Valerie Sayers, associate professor of English, was ad­vanced to the rank of professor 
Welcome Freshmen & Parents!
CChical\O[ribnne 
Suzanne's Floral 
ORDER TODAY using the coupon below or, for faster service, call 
has all yourspecial needs: 
1-800-TRIBUNE 
~ to brighten yournew dorm~ ~ birthdays~
1-800-874-2863 * 
~holidays~
Ask for operator 201 . 
cl? spedal occasions~
On-campus delivery will automatically stop for vacations and holidays. 
~exam time~ 
Mail coupon to: Chicago Tribune, 2000 York Rd., Suite 124, Oak Brook, II.. 60521-0001 
large selection offresh flowers, balloons and plants 
CHECK ONE RJU-TERM. 32 WEEKS HALF-TERM. 16 WEEKS 
Seven-day D $64.oo <S2.oolwk) D $37.60 ($2.35/wk) 
Daily delivezy to campus
Mon.-Sat D $41.60 <S1.30iwk) D $25.60 ($1.60/wk) 
World Wide Wire Service 1-800-224-4695
Sun. only D $4s.oo ($1.50/wk) D $24.oo ($1.50/wk) 
Payment by: o Check o MasterCard o VISA 0 American Express 0 Discover Account No._____________Exp.·oate -------------­
1359 N.*Ironwood 
~~rure __________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
Comer ofEdison 
Name !Please pr1nl) 

South Bend, Indiana 46615
&OOd --------------------------------------------------­
(219) 288-7551 
~~Qoom___________________~---~~00. ________ 
~-------------------------------------------·~ ~-----------------­
*
Phone ( ) 

rn nas not saW:ed ~home del'lery,lllilklblci1ptiiS _.beotlnd.llis on.._December 31, 1995. 
All majorcredit cards accepted 
VISA
<I'hirago[ribunr

Oller IIIII valid will 1111 OCher Dago Trbnt clsaut. 0P201 
-Xi
• 



page 12 The Observer • NEWS Saturday, August 19, 1995 


ND members build in Watts 
. Special to 'fl:le.Observer 

Notre Dame alumni, students and fac­ulty members helped build a house for a low-income family in the Watts neighborhood of Los Angeles June 18­24. 
David Link, dean of the Notre Dame Law School, and Fr. Robert Dowd, ofthe University's campus· ministry office, were among more than 20 Notre Dame community volunteers assisting the Cecelia Bradshaw family in the con­struction of their new home. 
An anonymous gift of $50,000 to the Notre Dame Alumni Association under­wrote the project, which was part of Habitat for Humanity's 1995 Jimmy Carter Work Project. Fr. Dowd presided over Mass for the volunteers each day at the site. 
Bradshaw works in the insurance dis­ability office of the King Drew Medical Center in Los Angeles. 
A child development major at Compton Community College, she hopes one day to establish a 24-hour preschool. 
.Her 18-year-old daughter Sherese attends Cypress College. Last year the Bradshaw family moved in with her par­ents to save money for school expenses. 
The Notre Dame volunteers were among some 2000 people joining Jimmy Carter and wife Rosalynn for Habitat's "blitz-building" project to construct houses for 20 families in the Watt area. 
Join The Observer Staff! 

Linda's Flower Market 
Welcome Freshmen! 10% Off With This Ad We have just what you need to brighten up your dorm room. 
1635 Edison Rd Next to the Jamison Inn 
Great Prices! 
(219) 272-0902 
We deliver! 
All major credit cards accepted 








The Observer 
is now hiring in thefollowing department: 
Advertising Design 
Looking for underclassmen with computer/ design experience in Quark Xpress, 
The project will make use of four tons of nails. 40,000 sheets of plywood, and 
560.000 board feet oflumber. 
Notre Dame's 224 national and inter­national alumni clubs have pioneered the concept of alumni community ser­vice. 
The alumni association's community service program is committed to encour­aging and expanding such efforts by fos­tering an awareness among alumni of the role of faith in community service; deepening alumni sensitivity to the plight of poor and oppressed people in their communities; suggesting means by which alumni might positively affect their communities; and providing opportunities for prayer and reflection on the meaning of community service. 
This summer 115 alumni clubs will sponsor 167 students for eight-week community service projects. Alumni clubs have also "adopted" inner city schools, organized English-as-a-second­language programs, organized bone marrow donor programs, aided prison­ers and their families, staffed homeless centers, and delivered meals to AIDS patients. 
Habitat for Humanity is an ecumeni­cal, Christian ministry that seeks to eradicate dilapidated housing using vol­unteer labor, management expertise, and tax-deductible donations of money and materials. The organization accepts no state or federal funding. 
STUDENT STEREO SPECIALS 
JUST FOR YOU! 
amaha RX-385.......................... s21995 
65 Watts x 2 channels of high-current power (98 Wlch dynamic), 40 station presents, 4inputs plus tape monitor, remote control, 2-year in­store factory service 
amaha coc-555 ........................ s22995 
5-disc carousel with direct track selection, CO-tape synchro, 20-track programmabli/ity, rability to change four discs while one is playing, remote contro( 2-year in-store factory service 
amo Coronet 40 I .... s180°0/pr
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
Booksheff with 6.5" woofer, and 1-inch dome tweeter. Alldiophile quality from Europe's largest manufacturer. Regular price 

BUYA'' THREE 
FOR ONLY 
amaha NSA-835 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . s999:ach 


Three-way speaker with big 12" WDOfer, 4" midrange, and 1" twer.ter. Handles 2fXJW power llax.! Regular price $150 each, 2-year in-store factory service 
Add Compact Subwoofer for Big Bass in any System! 
amaha vsT-so .................... s28 995 
Powered subwoofer ttffh CITJS$IJV8f. 50 watt nns amplifier. Regular price $350, 2-year in-store factory setVice 



News story guidelines 
By DAVE lYLER News Editor 
In order to better serve the Notre Dame Community. The Observer News Department uses the following guide­lines in its news gathering: 
The Observer News Department strives to report on all campus and local events that affect the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community. The News Department also uses Associated press photographs and stories to bring national and world events to ND/SMC readers. 
As stated in our editorial policy. "The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible... We realize that the department is comprised of ama­teur journalists, yet we strive to con­duct ourselves as professionals at all times. 
Our story ideas come largely from Notre Dame's Department of Public Information and Relations. We also generate our own story ideas from advertisements in The Observer and other publications. and from campus posters. 
A final and important source of story ideas is from members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community who call or write to us regarding events they are planning. We encour­age groups to call or write at least one week prior to the event. 
As a rule, we do not run previews of lectures that we are planning to cover. We simply do not have the staff or space to run previews of every campus lecture. Exceptions to this rule some­times will be made if a lecture is to be given by a speaker of international or national prominence. 
We suggest. however. that the spon­soring group fill out an ..Of Interest" or "Lecture" form at The Observer by 1 
p.m. the day before the event. Another alternative is taking out an advertise­ment in the paper at our special cam­pus rate. 
However. for certain events we only run previews. For instance. if a group is sponsoring a career day or an ofT­campus event. we might simply run a story on the fact that the event will happen. Basically. we run previews when having a reporter cover the event is not feasible. 
We understand that there are times when a preview article is more appro­priate than a article reporting on the event. This type of decision is made by the News Editors. However. we are always happy to discuss News Department coverage of an event, pro­vided a group representative contacts one of the News Editors at least one week prior to the event. 
If you have any additional questions, please contact Dave Tyler. News Editor at The Observer. 631-5323. 
Freehand, and/ or Photoshop 
6Months Free i 
'~
Please contact Jennifer Mackowiak or Ryan 
,j 
~1
Malayter at l-747Ifor more information. 

RnanciQg! ··~ 
j 

page 13 

Saturday, August 19, 1995 The Observer • NEWS 
Donation to create center 
BACK TO SCHOOL SAVINGS AT ® Lechters HOUSEVVARES UNIVERSITY PARK MALL PRESENT THIS AD BETWEEN AUGUST 19TH AND SEPTEMBER 12TH AND RECEIVE 20% OFF PURCHASES OF $20 OR MORE. LECHTERS YOUR BACK TO SCHOOL HEADQUARTERS! 271-0723  


Special to The Observer 
A center for teaching will be created at the University by a gift from trustee John Kaneb of Manchester-by-the-Sea. Mas­sachusetts. 
"The John · 
A. Kaneb Center for Teaching Excellence reaffirms our commitment to the core 
activity 0 f ..'i>;,,,;,;.':'.'··:d,::; 
faculty in the Kaneb classroom and the laboratory," said Fr. Edward Malloy, president of Notre Dame. 
"We are deeply grateful to John Kaneb for providing the means for us to hone the art of teaching that has characterized a Notre Dame education over the years."' 
Kaneb has been a trustee since 1980 and currently chairs the· board's committee on stu­dent affairs. 
A native of Worcester, Massachusetts, and a graduate of Harvard, he is chairman and chief executive officer of Gulf 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 

Oil and other family-controlled
These people used a U-haul 
companies. In each of the University's
This freshman gets help from her father as she moves into her new dorm. 
most recent capital campaigns, 
Timm new SMC Student Affairs head 
Special To The Observer 
Linda Timm has been se­lected as the new Vice Presi­dent for Student Affairs at Saint Mary's College. 
Timm began her duties on July 17. She replaces Sister Mary Brassil, who served on an interim basis for three years and was recently appointed to the position of Assistant to the College President. 
In her new position, Timm will be responsible for the ad­ministration and supervision of the departments of athletics and recreation, campus min­istry, counseling and career d-evelopment, health service, residence life and housing, and student activities. 
Other responsibilities include implementing the philosophy and policies of student affairs according to the objectives and purposes of the college and de­
veloping an environment con­"I am very excited about this ducive to the spiritual, person­challenging position at Saint al. intellectual and social Mary's," remarked Timm. 
growth of students. "I look forward to a profes­
Prior to coming to Saint sionally and personally enrich­Mary's , Timm most recently ing experience as I work closely served for fifteen years as Di­with faculty, staff, administra­rector of the Student Judicial tors and most of all with the dy­Office at Illinois State Univer­namic student population of the sity. college." 
Before that, Timm served the following roles at Illinois State 
University: student judicial 
There's no
counselor, area coordinator with the office of residential 
sweeter way to
life, residence hall manager and freshman academic advi­
say "I miss you"
sor. Timrn earned a doctorate in 
than by sending your child
educational administration and foundations from Illinois State 
Great Goodies From Home.
University, as well as a mas­ter's degree in educational ad­
Imagine the pure joy of 
ministration and foundations and a bachelor's degree in getting monthly feasts communication from the uni­versity. of their favorite treats. 
September thru May, your 
child will receive a different and wonderful treat sent from you. Pick your favorites from our mouth­
watering selection of quality products: Cookies, Pizza, Brownies, Muffins, Fudge, Cheesecake, Chips, Pretzels, Fruit, Cocoas & Teas and other great goodies. Sent in 
a quantity that's everything 
a college fun-sized package should be ... BIG. 
YOUR SATISFACTION GUARANTEED! 

he created $1 million scholar­ships endowments, one for stu­dents who encounter severe fi­nancial problems during the course of their Notre Dame ed­ucations and the second for Hispanic students. 
He is active in several Catholic charitable organiza­tions and is a trustee of two Boston area hospitals. 
He also is chairman of Harvard Medical School's capi­tal campaign. He and his wife Ginny are the parents of two Notre Dame graduates, Peter and Gary. 
The Kaneb Center for Teaching Excellence will help faculty members to evaluate and improve their teaching per­formance, graduate students to develop teaching skills and to function effectively in their teaching roles, and students to become more effective learn­ers. 
The center, which will be lo­cated in DeBartolo Hall, will be staffed by a director. one or 


The Observer 
is now hiringfor thefollowing paidpositions: 
Assistant Accent Editor Accent Copy Editor 
Bring Personal Statement to Krista Nannery in 314 LaFortune 
Call 1-4540 for more information 
more professional faculty, and support staff. 
It will report to the Office of the Provost and have an adviso­ry board consisting of represen­tatives of the colleges and schools, as well as other appro­priate University entities. 
In collaboration with depart­ments and other University units, the Kaneb Center will on request provide analysis and critiques of classroom instruc­tion; reviews of assessment mechanisms; information about and assistance in developing teaching techniques, methods and resources; pan-University stimulation of reflection on teaching and learning; and help for students through tutorials, analyses of written and oral communication skills, and other appropriate strategies. 
The formation of such a cen­ter has been recommended by several campus groups over the years, most recently by the Academic Council in February 1994. 

-~­

Saturday, August 19, 1995
page 14 The Observer • NEWS 

,, 

~·­
j' 
,.,_, ( 
t·
' 
! '· 
-,I 
i!'( 
' 
f 

Grad school announces student award winners 
Special to The Observer 
University of Notre Dame doctoral degree recipients Thomas Williams, Debra Lynn Deleat, William Christiansen II, and Christopher Roberts have been named recipients of the 1995 Graduate School Awards in humanities, social studies, science and engineering, re­spectively. Established in 1990, tbe awards are given to recog­nize superior academic and research accomplishment in graduating studies. 
Susan Fischer, a Ph.D. recipi­ent in physics, received the Alumni Association Graduate Student Research Award, and Jaishankar Raman, an eco­nomics doctoral student, won the Alumni Association Gradu­ate Student Teaching Award. 
• Thomas Williams, who re­ceived his doctorate in philoso­phy in August 1994, wrote his dissertation on the moral phi­losophy ofJohn Duns Scotus. 
According to his dissertation director, Alfred Freddoso, pro­fessor of philosophy, Williams is a talented teacher as well as a first-rate translator of Latin philosophical texts. Now assis­tant professor of philosophy at Creighton University in Omaha, Williams came to Notre Dame as a summa cum laude gradu­ate of Vanderbilt University in 1988. 
• Debra DeLaet received her doctorate in government and international studies in May. Her dissertation on domestic politics, interdependence and the regulation of international migration used current U.S. immigration policy as a case study. 
He-r director, Alan Dowty, professor of government and international studies, calls her dissertation a "model of what dissertation should be," citing her exceptional clarity and pre­cision. In August, she will join the faculty at Drake University as an assistant professor. 
• William Christiansen received his doctorate in chem­istry and biochemistry in May. His dissertation identified the specific functions of the protein domains present in the major anticoagulent proteins -pro­t~in C and ·activated protein C. 
Christiansen received his bachelor's degree in biochem­istry and biophysics in 1991 from Oregon State University. He intends to enter law school, envisioning a public policy ca­reer focusing on the complex ethical issues of biotechnology. 
• Christopher Roberts received his doctorate in chem­ical engineering in January 1995. His dissertation focused on the use of laser flash photol­ysis to study the effects of sol­vent reactions in supercritical fluids. 
According to his dissertation 


• 
Just minutes from Notre Dame 

• 
Vacation home for game weekends 

• 
No exterior maintenance 

• 
Beautiful waterfront settings 



director, Joan Brennecke, as­sociate professor of chemical engineering, his research has several environmentally-driven applications, such as using su­percritical carbon dioxide as a replacement for hazardous sol­vents or using supercritical water oxidation in commercial processes to eliminate haz­ardous byproducts. 
Now assistant professor of chemical engineering at Auburn University, Roberts re­ceived his bachelor's degree with honors from the Univer­sity of Missouri in 1990. 
• Susan Fischer completed her dissertation, "Spectroscopic Studies of the Nucleus 195 Au (Gold)," under the direction of Ani Aprahamian, associate pro­fessor of physics. 
According to Aprahamian, the focus of Fischer's research was the complexity of a type of a nucleus less understood than any other. Fischer currently is employed in the physics divi­sion of Argonne National Labo­ratory and is involved in the development of radioactive beams. 
• Jaishankar Raman, who holds a bachelor's degree in economics from Ramnarain Ruia College in India and a master's degree in economics from Fordham University, be­gan his graduate studies at Notre Dame in 1989. As a teaching assistant he has re­ceived student evaluations rivaling or exceeding those of tenured faculty members. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS 213 MAIN BUILDING 
GENERAL INFORMATION SFSSION WITH 
FR. TIMOTHY SCULLY, C.S.C, VICE PRESIDENT AND ASSOCIATE PROVOST AND PROF. IVAN }AKSIC, ASSISTANT PROVOST 
WHEN:  SATURDAY, AUGUST 19, 1995  
WHERE:  DEBARTOLO CLASSROOM BUILDING, ROOMS 101,102, AND 155  
TIME:  4:30PM  

Immediately following the general information session, individual sessions for each ~rogram will be held in the following rooms: 
PROGRAM Angers, France Athens, Greece Dublin, Ireland Fremande, Australia Innsbruck, Austria Jerusalem London-Arts and Letters London-Engineering (Summer) London-Engineering (Fall) Maynooth,lreland (SMC) Mexico City, Mexico Nagoya, Japan Ro.me, Italy (SMC) Santiago, Chile Toledo, Spain 
Former student participants will also be on hand to discuss their experiences, offer comments and answer questions. 
"Consider the cost of room and board for the next several years. Now, consider $298* per month at North Shore Club" 
A great investmentfor students, parents and alumni. 
• Condominiums and townhomes as low as $49,900 


SMC prof makes 'Who's Who' 
Special to The Observer 
Saint Mary's College profes­sor William Shannon III has been selected for inclusion in the 1995 edition of "Who's Who in America," a biographical ref­erence of "individuals who have demonstrated outstanding achievement in their own fields of endeavor and who have, thereby, contributed signifi­cantly to the betterment of con­temporary society." 
Shannon, a full-time tenured faculty member of Saint Mary's department of business admin­istration and economics, is also coordinator of the White House Conference on Small Business in Washington, D.C. 
He presently serves as the vice-chair for international trade on the U.S. Government National Advisory Council for Small Business. He was just named a judge for selecting the 1995 Small Business Person of the Year by the U.S. Small Business Administration. 
Recently, he met in Washing­ton, D.C., with Dr. Laura Tyson, a member of the Cabinet and chair of the President's Council of Economic Advisors. Several months ago, Shannon was in­vited to the White House to join President Clinton, Vice Presi­dent Gore, Labor Secretary Re­ich, and Education Secretary Riley in a meeting of selected business leaders to focus on "American Business: Meeting the Challenge." In Indiana, Shannon has served as Gover­nor Bayh's appointed vice-chair of the State of Indiana Enter­prise Zone Board. 
Currently, Shannon is the chair and co-founder of Ha­cienda Mexican Restaurants, a regional restaurant chain. In addition to co-founding Ha­cienda, he served in senior ex­ecutive positions, including CEO, with several corporations. Shannon has been national vice president for Entrepreneurial Education for the United States Association for Small Business and Entrepreneurship; aca­demic advisor for the U.S. Small Business Administration National Women's Network for Entrepreneurial Training; di­rector of the Indiana Small Business Council; chair of the American Marketing Associa­tion Michiana Professional Chapter. 
In addition, he is the recipient of several awards including the Indiana Entrepreneur of the Year and U.S. Small Business Administration's Advocate of the Year for Women in Busi­ness in Indiana. 
Shannon was elected the first chair of the Holy Cross College board of trustees and continues to serve as a member of the board's executive committee and chair of the board's educa­tion committee. 
He has served in leadership roles on many community or­ganization boards including Ju­nior Achievement, Mental Health Association, Chamber of Commerce of St. Joseph County and the Small Business Devel­opment Center. Shannon is currently a member of the edi­torial advisory board of the Tri­bune Business Weekly. 
He is the author of more than sixty articles in business and professional periodicals. 
Professor Shannon and his wife Bonnie, also an en­trepreneur, have endowed the Shannon Executive Scholar Program at Saint Mary's Col­lege which enables students to meet and learn from accom­plished alumnae in a variety of professional areas. 
COORDINATOR  ROOM  
Prof. Paul McDowell  126  
Fr. Leonard N. Banas, C.S.C.  240  
Dr. Claudia Kselman  138  
Dr. Michael Etzel  155  
Prof. Marie-Antoinette Kremer  129  
Ms. Metry Vithayathil ('96) S'95 Alumna ofProgram  149  
Dr. Anastasia Gutting  102  
Dr. Ed Jerger  119  
Dr. Tom Mueller  120  
Ms. Shari Overdorf  140  
Prof. Angela Borelli  125  
Prof. Yuko Nakahama  •  118  
Dr. Peter Checca  136  
Dr. Sylvia Rojas Anadon  117  
Prof. Theresa Leuger~  131  

Furnished models on display Thursday through Monday 1-5 I~M. or hy appointment 
for more information 
Call (219) 232-2002 





OINT 
U~U.l(:~:Y~''ll it will, whate·ver it you•re loQ.iQllg far inthe Departinent. ::~;;::::::·. __ · .-. ·::;~::. . _ · _ ~u·i•aM of the staff h~re behind.the 
o.nl'nnin~····"·~.,..,. ··let me··weleoiD.e·yotito The · . .·....... .. ... .. . ... Now that you're ready to stm a new sort oflif.,'fur y(}urself -· yolJ know; .the'ldnd devoid of parental supervision~and full of your own inner guidance ..,.... you're readyfor Viewpoint. 
Think ofViewpoint as. th~ battle,. ground for all the hottest issues. each one. yYiqg f9r Y9lll' •. atteJ:1ll9l'l.an9 
·.. ~~\~,~~~~f~!~ik~ roe!~~~0y{}~~js.;.. ..........,.....• '·gressioris (m society and· op.the.world. This..is. the moment you~'Y'e beeJ}'\vait.. ing for; isnlii? The ~e in your life in which your . . .·. .. and '.:l~;&.£.it!i.&·· n~s your 
-:-:'--:\~~1§d~!~ff:T~~~\t-··.­
.-,:}:·:,:-:.:·. 
MEAGHAN SMITH 
Associate Viewpoint Editor 
I 
All members of the Notre Dame 
• and Saint Mary's community may submit columns, letters to the editor, quotes, poems or cartoons to the Viewpoint department of The Observer. 
Individuals not associated with the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communi­ty are also welcome to submit, but pref­erence is given to members of the University communities. 
II 
All material submitted to the • Viewpoint department becomes the property of The Observer. Any fur­ther use of these commentaries without the written consent of The Observer is prohibited. 
Not-for-profit organizations, those organizations which have a reciprocal­usage agreement and those orga­nizations of which The Observer is a member may be granted permission to publish commentaries with the permis­sion of the editor-in-chief or the per­mission of the managing editor and the Viewpoint editor. 
I I I 
The Viewpoint department re­.serves the right to edit all commentaries submitted to the View­point department. The Observer has no obligation to print commentaries submitted. 
Commentaries will not be printed if they are libelous or unintelligible or irrelevant as applied to interest of a particular issue on a local, national, or world interest on a particular issue, its extension of existing issues on the Viewpoint pages, and/or it's role in fos­tering spirited and intelligent discus­sion. 
A disclaimer will appear with any let­ter deemed highly graphic, profane or discriminatory. yet nonetheless rele­vant. The disclaimer will appear at the beginning of the letter and will alert readers to the serious nature of the piece in question.
IV. 
All commentaries submitted to 
• The Observer must bear the 
signature of the author. Commentaries submitted as let­
v.• ters to the editor may not exceed three in number from the same individual or organization within the same academic semester. 
There is no limit to the number of 

Viewpoint Policy 
times an individual or organization may have their commentaries appear in print as columnists. 
VI 
All commentaries printed in • the Viewpoint section must be verified before being printed. Authors of all columns, letters to the editor, quotes, poems and cartoons must be notified before being published in The Observer. VII. 
Only those individuals autho­rized to speak as representa­tives for a group will be allowed to use the organization's name. In such cases, the primary author of the commentary is the individual(s), and the commentary is, in effect, only being co-signed by the organization.VIII 
Commentaries which • appear in the Viewpoint section may not have been printed pre­viously in other newspapers, magazines or publications. In exceptions, the author of the previously printed materi­al must give legal consent. 
Exceptions to this procedure are those organizations of which The Observer is a member, quotations used for commentaries and "Quote of the day." Syndicated columns also are excluded from this procedure. 
IX 
The opinions expressed in the • Viewpoint section are not necessarily those of the editorial board. House editorials appear in the View­point section of The Observer. 
Regular columnists, those whose columns appear on a regular basis; guest columnists. those whose columns do not appear on a regular basis; letters to the editor; poems, quotes and car­toons are commentaries. 
Such status is determined by the Viewpoint editor in all incidences except house editorials. The House Editorial Guidelines and the Insta House Guidelines are included in the House 
GARRY TRUDEAU
•DnONESBURY 
ONlY PR08l£M I N0­

THATf,()CVLP RJ6HT. rr:s 
77C&PJUAS7HeP.C. ~­

!JeUJ!NlXW.S M?TBAO.ITS 
TIM&G ~caq.JifHN

95... 60T A Cl;t;l. 
I A9'£1? ff 70PO

I N&W6AM!3 
71«J 7H!N6SAT
C:WIT... 
ONe& ... 

-
page 15 
X 
Editorial Policy. Paid employees of The Observer • are not permitted to have their commentaries appear in the Viewpoint section as letters to the editor. 
Regular columnists and members of the Viewpoint staff also are not eligible to have their commentaries appear in the Viewpoint section as letters to the editor. The status of such individuals is determined by the Viewpoint editor. 
XI 
This policy must be approved • by the editorial board and can be amended by a majority vo.te of the editorial board. 
All procedures not covered in this pol­icy statement are left to the discretion of the Viewpoint editor. The procedures outlined in this policy apply only to the Viewpoint department of The Observer. 
XII 
No commentaries of any kind • will be printed in the View­point section concerning any candidate for student government or hall office once the official campaign period has begun for that office. 
This ban on commentaries is to con­tinue until the election for this position has been completed. The Observer re­serves the right to comment on any can­didate or issue it wishes throughout the campaign period. At any time, the edi­tor-in-chief and the Viewpoint editor may suspend this article. 
XIII 
This policy is available to • the public during normal business hours and must be prominent­ly displayed in the Viewpoint depart­ment ofThe Observer. XIV. 
The Viewpoint editor is • responsible for editing all Inside Columns. The Inside Column contains views expressed by the author and are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. The Inside Column is not to be used for self or activity promotion. XV. 
Letters to the editor may not .exceed 350 words. The Viewpoint editor may shorten any letter regardless of length or deem it worthy of print in its entirety as an Opinion commentary, though the length of the Opinion commentary may not exceed 550 words . 
• QUOTE Of THE DAY 
''The most rewarding freedom is freedom of the mind." 
Amy Garver 
Saturday, August 19, 1995 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucas Managing Editor Business Manager Suzanne Fry Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David T y!er Advertising Manager ........................... John Porter V'JeWPOint Editor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ....................... Ryan Malayter Sporu Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor .................................. Rob Finch Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either ·institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor /Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
/ 



I TOBACCO POLICY 
: In accordance with an administrative : dir~ctiv~. J§sued . . .·.. ... . . . 
. · u·· ounaings on · · . < 
~ Dame campus are smoke-free in · i their entirety. This ban extends to . : the seating area of Notre Dame · i Stadium. Chewing-tobacco is not · : expressly included among the ·. 
• substances prohibited indoors. 
· Ash cans are provided outside most buildings for the convenience of smok­
• ers. Your cooperation is 

CAMPUS SECURITY 
For your protection Notre Dame em­rmed police 
i and vehicular patrols on ! pus property. Additionally, ........ .h~rnerg~ncy call boxes .a~ • .·. ··· ! across camp~~~qndmOre are 


l.5f2'i~~::ne•. ,~n· 
~911. From 8:00p.m. to 2:30 > · 

•"''the SafeWalk program provides a free campus escort service; call 634-BLUE. 
St. Mary's Lake 
DINING HALLS . Students who live in residence halls are automatically charged for 21 meals per week, regardless of how many of these meals are actually eaten. South Dining Hall (direct­ly above on map) and North Dining Hall feature different menus and the same hours of operation, which vary during finals and vacation weeks but otherwise are: Breakfast.. ....... 7:00a.m.-9:15a.m. Continental. ..... 9:15a.m. -10:30 a.m. Lunch ............ 10:30 a.m.-1:30 p.m. Dinner. ............ 4:30 p.m.-7:00p.m.
I. Grab N Go ..... 7.00 a.m.-7.00 p.m. i ,· 
i" 
I 
I 

I COMPUTER-USER CLUSTERS ! To help complete homework Notre Dame features · i over 500 computers distributed among · .··. . · several locations. These clusters, which 
support Macintosh and PC platforms, are networked to several laser printers at each location which output work at 
. no charge. Clusters can be found in ·. the following buildings: . ­

Computer/Math, DeBartolo; Fitzpatrick, f Hayes-Healy, Hesburgh Library, LaFor­: tune, Nieuwland Science, O'Shaugh­. nessy, and the Business College. 

• the official name for what is more routinely : and infamously known on campus as the · Dogbook. This thin, bound black-and-white · volume contains the photograph and brief bio­; graphical information each incoming freshman 
was requested to provide shortly after being admitted. Its reputation is for frequently being : the sole basis for selecting one's date to dormi-L nrecbaun IN · tory-sponsored theme dances (also known as er e Daroe. 
' 

~lrh available only to males and at no charge, the campus laundry service is now available to all students for a fee. A contract ·for $92.00 worth of services can be purchased for $75.00 per semester; · , .~ 
. without the contract, transaction amounts will be ~;. ·~ -.1 
•· Char~~9~~stu~~ntaccount I~.Q!~i~!!.?nla~els, ._ 
" 
complete wtth your account nuriil)lr~,pr,~ r~qwr~g... w, Bundled laundry is collected at your dorm ahd avaif::\1 ·········i!lil~lfli......... c.ll:.l.'J.e for you to pick up at the Laundry Distribution Center 
.--..•.--"'........ below on map); the schedule of designated days ts posted in your dorm. Other services available include dry cleaning, tailoring/alterations,. and summer storage. 
congratulations on choosing Notre Dame! While no intro­d be entirely comprehensive, this guide will answer some frequen~ highlight some things you may want to know, and help you get 
· r lar e campus. Good luck! 
St. Joseph's Lake 





--------------~---.~------------~--------------------------------~~~--------------------------~------, 


PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION 
Providing direct service to the U.P. 
Mall in Mishawaka and transfer • 
service to most areas of South Bend, the city bus stops outside the Library {below on map) every half hour Monday-Friday from 7:01 .a~f11· until 6:31 p.m. and then at 
to 1 p.m. Serv1ce in this area, Route 7, is not provided on home football Saturdays. The fare is 75¢. 
""'A 

HOME FOOTBALL WEEKENDS 
Asyou may have noticed by rel;l& ing these panels, h~ foot­ball Saturdays are a slight departure from status quo in this area. Festivities and activi· ties abound an weekend. This year's home gamesare: September2 vs. Northwestern; September 16 vs. Vanderbilt;·· September 23 vs. Texas; 
October21 vs.USC; 
October 28vs. Boston College; 
PROFESSIONAL BASEBALL For seven years the South Bend Silver Hawks have made down­town's Coveleski Stadium their home. The Class-A affiliate of the Chicago club, the local White Sox have featured the likes of Jason Bere and Carlton Fisk in their lineup. When the desire for seeing major-league action hits, Comiskey Park is a · 88-mile jaunt on Inter-
ex Field, home of the vu~.,~. 


FOOTBALL TICKETS ~ 
All students are guaranteed the opportunity to ....·30 i.6 . purchase one season ticket apiece. The proce-30, ·$ • i i dure is ~s follows: application ca_rds will be in stu-·. . . 1 ..... \~~\ dent ma1lslots the week before t1ckets go on sale. · · ·· . \~'~ Bring this card with your student ID and cash or \-, \;~\ check for $90.00 to the Joyce Athletic & Convo-\~ 8 \~..:w, cation Center. Be prepared to wait in a lengthy line; \~ _\41' ~·~.~\ many students camp out overnight. Any person may \ \ ·~ submit up to four applications provided he or she .· . \ · also furnishes a matching student ID and payment · for each of the applications. For freshmen, season 
..tickets will be available on Aug. 31 from 2:Q0-7:00. 
IDENTIFICATION CARD Your Student 10 is your ticket to the privileges and im­munities granted to "Domers"; carry it with you at all times. Among the many in­stances it is required: eating at the dining halls, library services, ~.~ul.i:l,L, ion, football 

ALCOHOL POLICY 
AccOrdingto du +ap;>Student Life Poli­cies and Procedures, "studentsarerespon­sible for compliance with Indiana Criminal Law regarding alcohol consumption. The Uni­versity will enter a private residence room for the purpose of enforcing Indiana laws if drinking in such a room becomes public in any way." Public is defined as that which extends beyond the privacy of the room. It clarifies: "No alcoholic beverages may be carried in open containers in the corridors or any 

lounges or lobbies." So keep it in your room. 


TIME ZONE 
Twice annually, when America ad­justs its clocks for Daylight Savings, Arizona, Hawaii, and regions of In­diana do not change; Notre Dame is located in such a region. South Bend keeps its clocks set to Eastern Standard Time year­
:. , round. Therefore, from spring through fall it is the same hour of the day here as in Chicago, where­
., as from fall through spring it is the same hour of the day here as in Detroit. 



t~ 
•'' 
' 

NOTRE DAME 0 l·NDIANA 


" 
, 
a 
HAGGAR COLLEGE CENTER. This building contains 1st Source Bank, which offers a wide variety of bank­ing services on the frrst floor of Haggar. Haggar is also home to the Shaheen Bookstore, the snack bar, and a travel agency. 
SECURITY.-· The Saint Mary's security department provides 24-hour services to its students, faculty, and staff. Security offers escorts during hours of darkness . For any student stranded off campus, the security police provide a service which will either send an offi­cer or a cab to bring the student back to campus (stu­dents must reimburse security for cab fare). Call boxes, identifiable by blue emergency lights around the campus, prnvide a direct line to security. Students are permitted to park in the lot behind Angela after pur­chasing the proper decal from the security/information building. 
DINING HALL. All resident students are allowed unlimited access to the dining hall from 7:00 a.m. to 
7:00 p.m. Monday through Friday. On weekends, food service provides a continental breakfast, available from 9:00a.m. to 10:30 a.m., brunch from 10:30 a.m., grill and salad bar entrees from 12:30 p.m. to 2:30 
p.m. and dinner from 4:45 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. Special hours for football Saturdays will be posted in the din­ing hall. 
TUNNELS. An underground system of tunnels con­nect the dorms to Haggar and the library. For safety and convenience, especially in the winter, the tunnels are accessible 24 hours a day with student identi­fication. McCandless is not tunnel accessible. No males are allowed in the tunnels at any time. 
Alcohol Policy. Saint Mary's complies with Indiana State law and, therefore, students under the age of 21 are not permitted to possess or consume alcohol on campus. Students over the age of 21 are the only stu­dents permitted to consume alcohol on campus. Social gatherings with alcohol are permitted in student rooms as long as all the guests present are 21 years of age or older, alcoholic beverages remain in the room, and the event does not infringe upon the rights of others. 
ACTIVITIES NIGHT. Want to become a member of a campus club or organization? Representatives from both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame organizations will be available to answer questions and sign up new members at the College's Activities Night. Read The Observer to find out when the Activity Night at Angela will take place. 
COMPUTER-USER CLUSTERS. Facing your first col­lege term paper or want to send e-mail to your friends on another campus? Saint Mary's computer lab pro­vides these services and more in each of its main labs and six computer clusters on campus. The main Macintosh lab and IBM-compatible lab in the basement of LeMans Hall is open 24-hours with lab assistance and laser printers available from 7:30 a.m. to mid­night. with extended operating hours during the latter half of the semester. Computers are also located in the writing center, basement, and mezzanine of the li­brary, room 232 of Madeleva, basement of Regina North, and in the science hall. Every student will receive an e-mail account and password at registration which she may access from any computer on campus, with special computers in the writing center being set aside specifically for e-mail. 
SHUTTLE. United Limo provides shuttle services between the campuses of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame beginning this weekend. The shuttle stops at various points on both campuses approximately every 15 min­utes Monday though Friday during daytime hours and every 30 minutes on evenings and weekends. The ser­v~ce is free during the day and costs 25 cents after 6 
p.m. weekdays and on weekends. Schedules should be posted at the front desk of the dorms. 
MALE VISITATION POLICY. Male visitors to Saint Mary's must be escorted at all times in the residence halls. Visitation hours are from 10:00 a.m. to midnight Monday through Thursday and 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m. Fridays and Saturdays. 
ANGELA ATHLETIC FACILITY. This recreational facility provides courts for tennis, basketball, volley­ball, and racquetball, as well as a nautilus and track. The facility is open from 8:00 a.m. to 11 :00 p.m. Mon­day through Friday, from 9:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. on Saturday, and from noon to 11:00 p.m. on Sunday. The recreational swimming pool is located in Regina Hall and is available for use during the posted hours. 







CCE-

Saturday, August 19, 199 5 

page 19 
Brick Rd. 
(1,1 
> 
Michiana ·-~ Airport 
·-"'0 
.:: 

~ 
...J 
Wester 
Ford St. 
yO 
0 
~ ~ 
~ 

Lathrop Ave. 0) 
~ 
0) 

South Bend 
Cleve land Rd. 
Inenana Toll Road 
Notre Dame 
·­
E
.,
-
·­
Douglas Road 
Jefferson Blvd. 
Mishawaka Ave. 


By KRISTA NANNERY 
Accent Editor 
T
he fatal moment has arrived. The car is unpacked. You've met the roommates. You've discovered that your new home away from home is about the size of a Raid Roach Motel. And you're hungry. The time for that "last supper" with your parents has finally come. Where to go? What to do? Have no fear, we're here to help. The following is a partial listing of the fun and food South Bend has to offer-partial being the operative word. Now, con­trary to popular belief, our word is not gospel so don't be afraid to set out into the surrounding wilderness, to go where no one has gone before. Life is an adven­ture, and a short one at that. 
Fun 

The University Park Mall (1) is really a.mall! It's got Sears. J.C. Penny's, L.S. Ayres and Hudson's. Although Hickory Farms did go out of business, there is an Orange Julius. Gap, Ann Taylor, The Limited, Spencer's, etc. A movie theater. Food Court coming soon! You get the picture. The UP Mall is located at the intersection of Grape Road and 23. There's also the Scottsdale Mall (14) for your shopping pleasure. 
Putt-Putt! (6) Voted best miniature golf course in Michiana by The South Bend Tribune's very own John Lucas, this putt-putt offers three courses and an arcade inside. Just east of Grape Road on North Main, right next to the Brewery. 
More Movies! Take your pick. Cinemark (12) is on the corner of Edison and Hickory. Then there's also UP East (4). Town and Country (13) and Scottsdale 6 (14). For a cheap thrill, try The Reddy, all the way up in Niles, MI. Just stay on 31 until it bears left in Niles. It's on the left and oh so cheap! (A bit cramped, but worth it.) There's always the option of renting too. Try Videowatch (9) for videos. Two for the price of one on Wednesdays. $1.50 for non-current stuff. 
The College Football Hall of Fame. (15) 'Nuff said. Check it out downtown on 31. 
Coveleski Stadium (22) is home to the South Bend Silver Hawks, the Chicago White Sox single-A minor league team. Watch for special class nights and activ­ities. 501 South Street. 
Food, Glorious Food! 
For cheap eats, try anywhere north of campus on 31 (The Big 16). You'll find Wendy's, Bob Evans, Perkin's and Fazoli's (fast food-Italian). Steak and Shake on Grape is also a good option (17). They're the only peo­ple that can call their milk shakes "milk shakes." If you head south on Grape, you'll find Chili's, TGI Friday's and Lonestar Steakhouse right by Meijer's (18). Don Pablo's (Mexican) is right over there too. Cactus Jack's (20) is another Mexican option. Bruno's Pizza has always been a favorite (21) and is definitely worth the ride. Nick's Patio Garden (10) is right by Videowatch and open 24 hours. Check out the Mishawaka Brewery (5) for interesting beverages and good, hearty fare. 
Books and Stuff 
Barnes and Noble's (19) is very big and therefore has lots of books. But please don't forget about our favorites ...Little Professor's (8) (by Martin's) and Pandora's (make a right by Goodwill (7) from NO Ave. southbound onto Howard). 
So thafs the gist of it. Most everything you could ever possibly desire can be found on or around Grape or 31. There are a couple of big strip malls on Grape with big stores like Venture. Meijer's is open 24 hours and has everything--groceries, clothing, housewares, etc. But seek and you shall find. Otherwise, enjoy your unpacking and have fun settling in! 

Saturday, August 19, 1995 
page 20 The Observer • SPORTS 
• IRISH fOOTBAll OPPONENTS 

Southern Cal paces Pac-10, Washington a factor 

ByJOHN NADEL with the exception of Keyshawn tie experience," Robinson said. Associated Press {Johnson)." .. (But) offensively, we could be Johnson, a wide receiver so much better than we were 
When John Robinson was who caught 66 passes for 1,362 last year. hired for his second tenure as 
yards and nine touchdowns last "The tailback position was Southern Cal's coach following season, is one of 12 returning one of our weakest when we the 1992 season, he said he starters for the Trojans, who came here and it's one of our planned on returning the Tro­are ranked seventh in The As­strongest now." jans to the nation's elite in sociated Press preseason poll. The Trojans return their topshort order. USC has been awaiting word eight running backs from last 
That's exactly what he's on the resolution of a Pac-10 year, including starters Shawn done. investigation concerning a loan Walters and Terry Barnum. Following a pair of eight-win Johnson received from a long­Also expected to contend for seasons and a 55-14 Cotton time friend who is a sports the Pac-1 0 title are defendingBowl victory over Texas Tech, ,'\ 
agent. The loan was made champion Oregon, a major sur­the Trojans have been selected while Johnson was attending prise last season; UClA, which 
by at least two publications to West Los Angeles Community is ranked 16th in the preseason win the national championship College. poll; Arizona, ranked 19th, and and are solid favorites to win Those close to the situation Washington, tied for 24th. 
the Pac-10 title. believe Johnson will not be pe­"It's exciting to have yourThose kinds of expectations nalized. first head coaching job in the are just ,fine with Robinson, The Trojans will have a new Pac-1 0 and taking over for the who coached the Trojans to a 
starting quarterback this sea­defending conference champi­share of the national champi­son. Brad Otton and Kyle ons," said Oregon coach Mike onship in 1978-the third year Wachholtz -both of whom Bellotti, who succeeded Rich of his first tenure at the school. 
subbed when Rob Johnson was Brooks, who went to the St. 
"Going into the season, we injured during the last two Louis Rams...We're still riding probably have more talent than years -are competing to suc­that peak. I know it can't last we had in the first two years by ceed Johnson, who graduated. forever. We have to earn it 
quite a ways," Robinson said. "Our quarterbacks both again.""It's a young team; a team 
have a lot of ability and very lit-The Ducks return 15 starters 

pretty much without stars -from last year, but they lost quarterback Danny O'Neil to graduation. He will be replaced by Tony Graziani, who directed Oregon to a 22-7 victory over 
Photo courtesy of Washington Sports lnfonnation 
USC last season while O'Neil 

Washington free safety Lawyer Milloy will have his eyes on the Pac-1 0 was injured. receivers and, later in the season, they'll be on the Irish wide outs. UCLA returns 17 starters 
Wildcats return Dan White at season, kept coach Sonny Lu­
from a team that won its final 

quarterback as well as several bick, who stayed instead of pur­three games after losing six in a 
members from an outstanding suing the coaching job at Miami row. defense. after Dennis Erickson was hired
"If we don't lose some of our "I really, sincerely, like this by the NFL's Seattle Seahawks. 
key players, I think our team 

team, maybe as well or better Air Force won seven of its 
can be highly successful." said 

than any we've had at Ari­final eight games last season,
Terry Donahue, about to begin 

zona,'' Wildcats coach Dick losing only at Notre Dame 42­
his 20th year as the Bruins 

Tomey said. "The attitude is so 30. BYU is coming off a 10-3
coach...We've just got to hope 

fresh and so excitable and it's a season, including a 31-6 victory 
that lady luck smiles on us this 

team with a lot of personality. over Oklahoma in the Copper
year, that we can keep our best 

I And I think that all rubs off Bowl.
players on the field." 

from the leadership we have." Fresno State has added sev­
:\ Donahue needs four confer­Washington is finally free of eral outstanding junior college
I ence victories to pass former
1,' Pac-1 0 penalties after two transfers in an attempt to re­
I Washington coach Don James
I years. bound from a 5-7-1 season,
and become the Pac-10's career 

"It's hard to explain what while San Diego State has 16
leader in conference wins. 

it's like to work with that cloud starters back in Ted TolJner's
UCLA returns its entire of­
over you for two years," second year as its coach. 
fensive line, receiver Kevin 

Washington coach Jim Lam­Nevada, UNLV and South­
Jordan (73 catches for 1,228 

bright said. ''I'm just excited western Louisiana, all 5-1 in
yards last season) and Karim 

about this year. Now the chal­the Big West Conferenc~ last
Abdul-Jabbar, who rushed for 

lenge for our program is how season, figure to fight it out for
1,227 yards last year when he 
fast we can bring it back to the the title again. 
was known as Sharmon Shah. 

level that Don James brought it Nevada, the preseason fa­
Like USC and Oregon, the 

to." vorite, returns most of its key
Bruins must change quarter­

Defending Western Athletic players. They include quarter­
backs, having lost Wayne Cook 

Conference champion Colorado back Mike Maxwell, who passed 
to graduation. The starter 

State is expected to battle Air for 3,735 yards and 29 touch­
heading into the season is Ryan 

Force, Brigham Young, Fresno downs last season, and wide
Fien. 

State and San Diego State for receiver Alex Van Dyke, who 
Photo courtesy of USC sports lnforma11on Arizona lost all its starting 

the league title. had a school-record 98 catches. 
Wide receiver Keyshawn Johnson is the deep threat USC needs. offensive linemen, but the 
The Rams, coming off a 10-2 

f The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. ar the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds 
Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3p.m. All dassifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Need a fun-loving, responsible stu­NICELY DECORATED ROOMS I NEED TIXS TO ALL HOME JOIN US AND TOGETHER WE dent to babysit 2 children ages 5&7 FOR RENT. F-BALL WKNDS, GAMES.272-6306 SHALL RULE THE GALAXY! THE 
WANTED TICKETS
in my Granger home 2-3 afternoons REASON. RATES, GREAT EMPEROR HAS FORSEEN ITt a week 2-6 pm. Must have own ATMOS., CONTIN. BRKFST, 2 
I 
PERSONAL

I transportation. Please call MILES OFF-CAMPUS. CALL KIM Yet another student who's parents The Observer News Department
I

SOCCER REFEREES: Students 2n-s7B6. 277-8340. have yet to see a live game. And wants you! Now accepting applica-
I
,, 
needed to referee soccer games for now she's graduating. NAVY GAs lions for the following paid posi-
I. 
south-side elementary school 2 BDRM HOME FOR RENT NEAR please. Kris @ 634-4220 herbert hoover. lions­(Grades 5-8), located near CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES Associate News Editor 
..••..••.........•...•

Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street. Where the action isll Coach's 272-6306 'need you. I want you. Be my Assistant News Editor 
' All games scheduled between 4pm Sports Bar is now hiring for part A DEVOTED IRISH FAN NEEDS Copy Editor. Good grammar and Chief Copy Editor and 5:30pm, Monday-Friday, Sept time kitchen, dish and hostess GA'S TO ANY/ALL HOME/AWAY spelling a big plus. Call Krista at 1-Copy Editor 9-0ct 29. $15.00-$20.00 per positions. Perfect for students who FOR SALE GAMES. 219·232-0061, 24 HAS. 4540 and tell her why you're the game. Must have referee uniform. need to make good $$$ to enjoy person she's been looking for. No Submit a brief resume and personal 
..••.••.....••.........

Call291-4200 or 291·8731. the NO years. Must be 1B. Apply 51221 Oakhill Ct experience necessary. statement to Dave Tyler by Friday 
in person, 2046 South Bend Ave. KNOLL WOOD PARK VILLAS TICKET-MART, INC. August 25th. Questions? call Dave SOCCER COACH: Responsible Open Sunday 2-4 WANTED If you know something about style @ 1-5323. studenVgrad student needed to GA'S FOR ANY/ALL and fashion and can write pretty TOGETHER, WE CAN RESTORE coach JV boys soccer team(s) for Why go West? Stay in this elegant HOME/AWAY NO GAMES. well, give Krista a call. 1-4540. ORDER TO THE GALAXY! south-side elementary school Mediterranean Villa. Enjoy life and BUY* SELL *TRADE thanks.
FOR RENT
(Grades 5-B), located near friends in French Kitchen, ltalina (219) 232-0058-24 HAS. The pump don't work cause the 
.....

Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street. living Room or in English-like Park vandals took the handles Practice 2: 15-3:15 pm, Mon-Thurs. ACCOMMODATION Garden on Quiet Court. For further BUSINESSMAN NEEDS 2or4 Are you motivated? dedicated? All soccer (games 8-12) scheduled Englishwoman offers quiet accom­info call Marzena Walicka 271·1474 ND SEASON TICKETS ANY OR Interested in writing? Just for future reference--anyone between 4pm & modation near campus for ND/SMC or 24 hr 235-3016. ALL GAMES. OHIO. ST. The Observer News Department who needs a lifting partner, call 5:30pm Monday·Frl. Coach Sept 5-visitors. Call (219)631-6072 days, andWASHINGTON A MUST wants you! Todd Murphy at 273-0609. Need a 0ct 27. Paid position-Please call (219) 273-1751 evenings. FREE I Sofa/hidabed. Heavy, PLEASE HELP IF YOU CAN ........ drinking partner? Call Walter 291-4200 or 291-8731. sizeable, useful. 2n-2510. 2n1559 See our ad this page! Morrissey at 273-3115. 


--~--------------------------~~--------..----------~--------------------------------------~----------------------~---~-----, 
Saturday, August 19, 1995 
The Observer· SPORTS page 21 


Photo Courtesy of Ohio State Sports Information 
• IRISH fOOTBALL OPPONENTS 
Buckeye captains announced 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, OH 

Ohio State's players have se­lected three seniors as cap­tains. 
The team on Thursday picked quarterback Bob Hoying and tailback Eddie George as offensive captains and tackle Matt Bonhaus as defensive cap­tain. 
Hoying, of St. Henry, is in his third year as starting quarter­back for the Buckeyes. He led Ohio State to a 10-1-1 record and a share of the Big Ten title in 1993 and a 9-4 finish in 1994. 

George, of Philadelphia, ran for 1,442 yards and 12 touch­downs last year. 
His yardage total was the best showing by a Buckeye since Keith Byars ran for 1,764 yards in 1984. 

Tailback Eddie George is one of three Buckeye captains for 1995. 

If you have to sign aloan check, they will be available on Tuesday,August22, 1995. 
Cashier's Office 

(219)272-6702 

Chinese, Vietnamese, & American food Lunch 11 :OOa.m.-3:OOp.m. Dinner menu will be served after 3:00p.m. 

1 S Years of Service Award The Chamber Of Commerce St. Joseph County 


"Enjoy a unique experience inOriental Dining" 
• 
Fresh Ingredients 


•Lunch 
Specials starting at $3.50 


includes: egg roll, soup and tea 
• 
Dinners starting at $5 

• 
Private Dining Booths 


•Custom 
cooking with no MSG 

•Vegetarian 
Menu @!jt".u-sl 

•1 
5 Years of Service Award -~=---+ 


For Reseniations &Carry Out Call: 272-6702 
For Dine-In Delivery Call: 


-lloon 11 All-9 Pll 272-2328 Hmr 11 All-10 I'll 
s-.y-10"11 

Ju~t pre~ent thi~ coupon! expires 9/02/95 
By DENNE H. FREEMAN 
Associated Press 
DALLAS 
There's a picture in the -Texas A&M dressing room that 
depicts the Aggies' goal for the 
1995 season. 
It's a shot of Sun Devil Sta­
dium, where the national 
championship will probably be 
decided Jan. 2 in the Fiesta 
Bowl. 
"We've worked hard to posi­
tion ourselves for this run at 
the national title," said Texas 
A&M coach R.C. Slocum. "We 
want to be in Tempe, Arizona 
playing for the championship." 
The Aggies are ranked third 
in The Associated Press pre­
season poll, the highest since 




The Observer 
is now hiringfor the following paidpositions: 

Circulation Drivers 
Ifyou have between 11:00 a.m -2:00 p.m. open in your schedule and are interested in this paid position call Joe Riley at 1-5313 

New Additons: 
Walsh Dillon Howard Hall Morrisey Manor Law School School of Architecture Snite Museum
Welcome Freshmen! 
Washington Hall 
Visit u.s in the Lower Level of the LaFortune Student Center Open Fri I J,S, Sat JJ,3, Sun I I,2 
1957 when Bear Bryant's team was second. 
Slocum said the high ranking ''is a compliment to our prgram." 
The Aggies haven't lost a Southwest Conference game in four seasons, and would love to go undefeated again in the farewell season of the 80-year­old league. 
Texas A&M, Texas, Texas Tech and Baylor will begin play in the Big 12 next year, while Rice, Southern Methodist and Texas Christian will play in the Western Athletic Conference. Houston has joined the newly formed Conference USA. 
Texas could be A&M's most serious challenger. The 

' 
Longhorns, ranked No. 18 in the AP preseason poll and fresh off a Sun Bowl victory over North Carolina, should have a potent offense. If the defense improves, the Longhorns could spring an upset when the two teams meet on the final day of the SWC on Dec. 1 at College Station. 
Coach John Mackovic is feelig pressure to beat the Aggies and win the league title. 
..We could have our best team since I've been here," Mackovic said...If our defense gets going, we could be solid." 
Texas has tough non-confer­ence tests against No. 9 Notre Dame, No. 15 Oklahoma and No. 17 Virginia. Texas A&M has only two ranked teams on its schedule, No. 13 Colorado and the Longhorns. 
A&M's offense will be led by flashy running back Leeland McElroy and quarterback Corey Pullig, who has started 28 con­secutive games for the Aggies. 
"Leeland could be the best we've ever had, and we've had some good ones," Slocum said. .. 1 told Leeland to get in shape. He's going to get the ball a lot." 
McElroy, a junior, is one of the preseason favorites for the Heisman Trophy. 
"We've finally got a shot at the national title," he said. ..That's what I want more than any individual honors." 
OFFICIALLY LICENSED PRODVCTOF THE L'NIVERSITIOF NOTRE DAME 

\ ) 
\ 
'
' \ .IRISH fOOTBAll OPPONENTS 
\ I 

i Alstott, Purdue looking to roll 
' 

\ 
l By STEVE HERMAN \ Associated Press 
' ) WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. 
\ 
I 
Purdue's Boilermakers will go as far this season as Mike Al­stott's sturdy legs will carry 
them. The Boilermakers, who have 

I 
l not had a winning season in football since 1984, showed a big improvement last year and 
return of most of the players

\ from a potent offense that av­eraged more than 30 points a game. "We have no reason not to win," said Alstott, a 240-pound
I 
senior fullback who could be­

I 
come Purdue's career rushing

I I 
leader this season. "We don't 

I I I have the reason of injury, we don't have the reason of youth. Everybody knows the system. We only lost four starters. We had a great spring. We have the 
) 
experience, so there's no re·a­

\ 
\ 
son we shouldn't win. "Of course, that's what the Boiler­makers thought last year after r~bounding from a 1-10 record in 1993 with victories in four of 


. their first five games. But Pur­due managed only two ties and four losses after that, including losses in the final three games against Michigan, Michigan State and Indiana after quar­terback Rick Trefzger tore a Iaiee ligament. 
''I've had the opportunity to play in some big games, against some great teams, some great defenses," said Trefzger, a senior who has played in only 14 games in his Purdue career. "This is going tobe a full sea­son for me. That's what I'm going to strive for, to stay injury-free and do the best I can for my teammates." 

\ 
Having a player such as Al­~ \ stott in the backfield, of course, helps. 
"It relieves pressure off me," Txefzger .said .. "With a runner like Mike, all you have to do is give him the ball and he's going to make something happen. ... It also opens up the passing game a lot, because a lot of guys will be focusing on stop­ping Mike and stopping our tail­backs. 
That opens up our passing attack, and we have some great wide receivers with a great offensive line that's been around for a while. So I think we're going to have an explo­sive offense." 
Alstott rushed for 1,188 yards 

'· ) 
l 
q 
last year and needs 1,117 to break Otis Armstrong's career ·~ I II record of 3,315. He needs two touchdowns to break the record 29 by Leroy Keyes, now the 
Purdue running backs coach. 

\ 
I .I I Purdue ( 4-5-2) lost receiver 
\ ·, ~ 
' 

Tim & Sherry Bryant 
13347 County Rd. 12 
Middlebury, IN 46540 
PH (219) 825-1 


Just 30 minutes east of Notre Dame. Hillside modern home jj overlooking ponds with birds. 
1 
Lg. common rooms w/ piano. On bds. Smoke-free. AJC. Swim pool. Full breakfast. 
• -... -.......---............ -. -... --.. ---· 
~ ~ ::--.::--~ -· "!" =---~ ,....--;.,. "": =-~ = -~ -~ := ---: -. 4 .... 

Burt Thornton and tackles Mike there is in America," coach Jim Cardona and Ryan Grigson Colletto said. "He's done a from last year's offense. Edwin great job since last spring .. Watson, who started three "It's a good group of kids per­games as a freshman, is listed sonality-wise in terms of their as first-string tailback, effort. You don't have to prod although Corey Rogers could be them as much to do the things contesting for his former start­you want them to do. ing spot once summer school "That allows us to spend grades are official. more time on the execution of 
"He's done a phenomenal things and not have to spend as amount of work, but his tran­much time in here on the black­script is about as complex as board." 
Saturday, August 19, 1995 
Photo courtesy of Purdue Sports Information 
Fullback Mike Alstott is a Heisman Trophy candidate. 
• 


-.. ----~ --~ -~---~ ~ ;.. ---_.._:.;..:;----.:.:.. .:.;; .: ---":. ~ ": ':': -----:~...0: ~ ~ :"' ----.----.-----------------------.. --... 
":-:. :!'-: __-...... ·--:.. :. ~-~.. _;--__...­


Saturday, August 19, 1995 page 23
The Observer • SPORTS 

CAMPUS MINISTRY••• 
•••CONSIDERATIONS 
Notre Dame is not a finished product. The construction process will continue, God willing. 
We need you all. You do not have to lay bricks or pour cement (unless you really, really want to). You do not even have to be the smartest person in the world. You do not have to be great looking. You do not have to be perfect, whatever that is. Come as you are. 
Ultimately, this construction project is in the hands ofGod. 
We do not know exactly what it will look like when it's finished, but we believe that it will be something very good. 
Fr. Bob Dowd, C.S.C. 
P.S. -All are welcome ro srop in at the Campus Ministry Office at 103 Hesburgh Library or at Badin Hall to talk or just to grab some M&Ms. 
TWENTIETH SUNDAY IN ORDINARY TIME 
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica 
Sat. Aug 19 5:00 p.m. Rev. Paul Doyle, C.S.C. 
Sun. Aug 20 
10:00 a.m. Rev. Richard Bullene, C.S.C. 

• THE PEOPlE OF NOTRE DAME SPORTS 
Beauchamp, Wadsworth head list of athletic department big wigs 
The student athletes are not 

the only people involved with  
sports on the campus of the  
University of Notre Dame.  
Behind the scenes stand the  
men and women who organize  
events, control television con­ 
tracts, and even run interhall  
sports.  
Here's a look at some of the  
people that keep Notre Dame  
athletics running smoothly.  
Rev. E. William Beauchamp,  
C.s.c;.--Executive Vice  
President: A member of the  
NCAA's Olympic Sports liaison  
Committee, Beauchamp has  
been a constant push for re­ 
form in intercollegiate athletics.  
He oversees every sports de­ 
cision made at Notre Dame,  
and he handles the press when  
the university deals with the  
firing and hiring of coaches. The Observer/Scott Mendenhall  
Beauchamp has been a part Michael Wadsworth officially settled into his position as athletic director  
of the Notre Dame family since August 1.  
1977.  and appellate lawyer with the  to the NCAA in the area of legal  
Mike Wadsworth--Athletic  designation of Queen's Counsel,  compliance and certification.  
Director: As a 1966 Notre  a radio and television sports­ In addition, she monitors many  
Dame graduate and former  caster and sports columnist-­ Irish Olympic sport athletic  
Fightin' Irish defensive lineman  and a rookie of the year and  teams. Conboy serves as one of  
in football--and most re­ five year performer for the  Notre Dame's representatives  
cently the Canadian ambas­ Toronto Argonauts of the  to the BIG EAST Conference.  
sador to Ireland, he brings a  Canadian Football League. He  She was named to the NCAA's  
wealth of experience in busi­ had previously been mentioned  Legislative Review Committee  
ness, law, finance and media to  as a potential candidate as  in May of 1992. She was ap­ 
his new role as athletic director  commissioner of the CFL and  pointed to the NCAA  
at Notre Dame.  the National Hockey League.  Interpretation Committee in  
He has previously held posi­ Missy Conboy--Associate  1993 and serves on the execu­ 
tions as a senior executive in  Athletic Director: A 1982  tive committee of the National  
the financial services and man­ graduate of the University, she  Association of Athletic  
ufacturing industries, a trial  serves as Notre Dame's liaison  Compliance Coordinators.  

aJDo coac6es witb. continued·success 
You don't rmd too many col~ son but he has gradually col­leges in the country that can lected a fabulous nuCleus of boast both their football and talent making the future of basketball coaches also Notre Dame very bright. coacb~d in tb¢ir respective Bro'wii too, has experienced professional venues. top·fligbt NCAA tournament 
But there are several other play. both on the court and coaches of.strpng Olympic. frorn the sideline. ·A volleyball programs that uften ·go unno~. hail-of..famer for her ~tellar 
· ticed or without recognition. · career at USC. Brown was a 
In recent years. dramatic ·member of United States 
strJde$ have been made in National and Olympic teams. 
many of Notr~ Dame's non-Slle has also served as an 
revenqe sports~ . In fact. assistant coach. 
like lacrosse. volley.. More recently. Brown has 
. . . . ,men~!'J~!!pis a~~ now ~urned Nptre Dame into a c~:m­aniJ.Ual twenty programs. ·· sistent NCAA tournament invi­Talent on the field iS ari obvi~ . tee. 19 ·saw the Irish ad.., 

HEY, FIRST YEAR STUDENTS AND TRANSFERS! WELCOME TO THE CONSTRUCTION PROJECT We Need Your Help 
As you walk around campus, you might notice construction in process. During the past few decades, the number of buildings constructed on campus has increased dramatically. Additional residence halls are being built and there are plans for expanding the football stadium. 
It might seem that the University of Notre Dame is like one big construction project. 
Notre Dame is under construction. But, the most important and long lasting construction which is taking place is not with bricks and mortar, as important as buildings and facilities are. There is a "construction process" of sorts which Notre Dame was meant to be a part of since it was founded by the Holy Cross priests and brothers in 1842. It is a construction process that has been going on since Jesus walked this earth. The blueprint for tl}is construction process is, "Love one another as I have loved you." It's about building a world which promotes the dignity of each human being. But, in order for this to take place, we need to keep building a Notre Dame based on the love lived by Jesus. 
A large amount of construction has taken place. We can be thankful that we, in 1995, are not building this Notre Dame from scratch. There is the wisdom and generosity of many people tied up in this place, people who have spent their lives trying to serve others. There is a foundation on which to build. 
nere is a large amount of construction that is taking place. There are people who are here now, students, teachers, recrors and others who pray together, in their halls or in the Basilica. There are groups of students who reflect together, in small groups, on what God is calling them to in "Communities N.D." all over campus. There are people who have chosen to be with those who suffer in order ro serve them and learn from them at the Center for the Homeless and other places. There are people who gather together to support and challenge each other in matters of faith through retreats like the Notre Dame Encounter and weekly meetings in the Stanford-Keenan Chapel. There are people who have chosen to love each other and to be honest with each other. There are people who help us see that the world is bigger than Notre Dame and that Notre Dame is called to be in that world, serving its people. 
A large amount of construction needs to take place. 




EARN CASH by DONATING You could earn: $30°0after your first plasma donation! $15°0 if you donate alone +$ 5°0 if you show college I.D. (first visit) +$1 0°0 per person if you recruit someone and they donate $30°0 TOTAL! Help Us Save Lives Must be 18 years old; proof of current address with photo I.D. COME TO: HOURS: AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL M-F: 9-6 515 LINCOLNWAY WEST SAT: 8-5 SOUTH BEND, IN 46601-1117 I 234-6010  
/ Nf@>TRJE JOAMJE" c(GQJL,JFitCOUR§JE' . ~ .. ·..· .· ..1 STUDENT FALL PASSES AVAILABLE NOW ; $50 GOOD THROUGH DECEMBER 1, 1995 FINE QUALITY SPORTSWEAR GOLF EQUIPMENT TEE TIMES 631-6425  

The Observer/Mike Ruma 
With an astro-turf field and indoor track, the Loftus Center is one of the nation's premier training facilities. 


Sure, you know any trivia question related to Notre Dame sports, but where can you go for a quick dip in the pool? Where is the best place for some pick-up basketball games late at night? 
Here is some practical infor­mation on the places to know while touring the campus of Notre Dame: 
NOTRE DAME STADIUM 
The student section and ori­gin of the most noise is located in the northwest section of the stadium, starting in the end zone with the freshman and wrapping around to the fifty­yard line where seniors are awarded with the prime seats. "Seats", though, is kind of a misnomer because the students do not sit in Notre Dame Stadium, standing is the req­uisite. 
Enjoy the House that Rock Built this year because expan­sion hits in 1996. The tradeoff is lose a little tradition, gain a modern u .......,uu~' 
"The Rock" is a place to go for swimming and racquetball. 

\ 
,, I 
1\ 
I~ 
I 
I 
I 
\ 
IJ : 
I I 
, I 
JOYCE CENTER 

The "Athletic and Convocation" part of the name is fading but "the JACC" is the more common name to the dual/domed athletic facility. The North Dome houses the basketball arena, homecourt of the men's and women's bas­ketball squads and volleyball team. 
The South Dome features the home rink of the Irish hockey squad as well as a weight room, indoor track, and boxing room. In addition, the JACC is home to the Monogram Club and the impressive Notre Dame Athletic Heritage Hall. Connected to the Joyce Center is the Rolfs Aqautic Center, a modern nata­torium. 
FRANK ECK STADIUM 

The most impressive new ath­letic structure on campus, "The Eck" is located on the far south­east corner of campus. This will be it's third year of hosting the Irish baseball team. 
LOFTUS SPORTS COMPLEX 

Quite possibly the most im­pressive Irish athletic facility is this indoor astro-turf field. Loftus is occasionally open to students but is primarily de­signed for varsity athletics. Loftus houses the 8,000 square­foot Haggar Fitness Complex as well as Meyo Field, a full 100­yard Astro-Turf football field. The surrounding one-fifth mile track is a gem. Varsity indoor 
• THE PLACES OF NOTRE DAME SPORTS 
Plenty of places to go, know for athletic Irish 
\i •Urban Outfitters • Belts • Socks • Tights 

home to many freshman phys­ical education classes. 
STEPAN FIELDS 

The place for interhall foot­ball games and rugby matches. Volleyball courts are also avail­able next to the space-age dome. 
meets are held here with field events on Meyo Field. The Track is a life-saver for the avid runner in sun-forsaken winters of South Bend. 
THE ROCKNE MEMORIAL 
This monument to the Irish legend is on the end of South Quad and offers the majority of fitness opportunities for stu­dents and faculty. Facilites fea­tured include a swimming pool, basketball and racquetball courts, a weight room, dance and aerobic rooms, and a room of aerobic exercise equipment. 
"The RocK" as it is usually re­ferred to by students also is the 

page 24 The Observer • SPORTS Saturday, August 19, 1995 

..t •Coats/Jackets •Handbags/Purses ,.. THE •Handcrafted Beaded •Petites
tSTYLE & Silver Jewelry 1912 S.11th (U.s. 31133) 2 'h miles north of state line Layaway & Belle Plaza. NilesCo., INC• Alterations Available 687-9123 
AreaS only Micro brewery! 
Study Booths Baby Back Ribs Puburrito Irish Meat Pie Sandwiches Appetizers Hopgarden Patio 61" Widescreen T.V. Pool &Darts 






256-9993 
3703 N. Main St., Mishawaka 1/2 Block South of Edison 
Hours: M-F 1Q-8, Sat 1(}-6 Open Sun. 12-4 beginning Sept. 1st 



Saturday, August 19, 1995 Page 25 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

~--~~==~----~~~~ 

....,....... ....-Welcome Week 1995~~ ~ ~ 
Thursday, August 24 
•Sneak 
preview of the movie, "Brothers McMullen" Cushing Auditorium 8 pm and 10:30 pm 

•FREE 
billiards, 9 pm-1 am, and FREE video games, 10 pm -11 pm in the LaFortune Gorch Games Room 






Friday, August 25 

·~elcome Back Picnic Fieldhouse Mall 4 pm-6 pm FREE FOOD, GIVEAWAYS!!! 
•Comedy 
Night at Washington Hall 8 pm $3.00 Featuring: Greer Barnes and Rock Reuben 

•
FREE Ice Cream Social 


i 
.; I
Fieldhouse Mall 10 -11:30 pm I 
•"While You Were Sleeping" 
Cushing Auditorium 8 pm and 10:30 pm $2.00 


Saturday, August 26 
•
Rockfest IV: featuring campus bands FREE FOOD AND DRINKS Fieldhouse Mall 1-5 pm 

•Notre 
Dame Night at Coveleski Stadium: South Bend Silverhawks vs. Btirlington Bees :FREE TICKETS, at the LaFortune Info Desk 

FREE SHUTTLE to the stadium, begins at 5:45pm and leaves from Stepan Center 

•"While 
You Were Sleeping" 


..
Cushing Auditorium 8 pm and 10:30 pm $2.00 
I

Sunday, August 27 ·; I 
I 
• "While You Were Sleeping" Cushing Auditorium 2 pm $2.00 
Sponsored by: Office of Multicultural Student Affairs Student Activities Student Government 


Student Union Board 

page 26 The Observer • SPORTS Saturday, August 19, 1995 


Tyson comeback fight not low on hype, trash talking from fiery opponent 
------------------------------------------· 
By TIM DAHLBERG 
Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS 

Mike Tyson didn't need Peter McNeeley to sell tickets for his first fight in more than four years. Just the curiosity generated by Tyson's return to the ring was enough give him a $25 million pay­
day. 

While McNeeley, unlike Tyson, has done his best to promote Saturday night's scheduled 10­round fight, it's Tyson's mystique that will make the event one of the richest in boxing history. 
"He's Back," the posters and merchandise at the MGM Grand Hotel scream out. 
Indeed he is, and even the most casual boxing fan is curious to find whether the most fearsome I fighter of his time still has his stuff after spend­
ing more than three years in prison. -"When. this man walks down the aisle, it will be mind-tingling," promoter Don King said. Tyson's appeal was demonstrated at 

I 
Thursday's weigh-in, where some 3,000 fans came to watch Tyson take off his shirt and shorts and stand on a scale clad only in his underwear. 
He appeared muscular and sleek while weigh­ing in at 220 pounds, four more than he weighed in his last fight on June 28, 1991 against Donovan ''Razor" Ruddock. It was the most Tyson has weighed for a fight since he was 220 1/2 for James "Buster" Douglas, his only loss. 
The crowd that gathered for the weigh-in paid little attention to McNeeley, who barely got a response when he took off his shirt, raised his arms and let out a roar. McNeeley weighed 224 pounds. 
"I'm coming at you," McNeeley yelled, appar­ently to no one because Tyson had already left the arena. 
Fans may not get much chance to judge how the 29-year-old Tyson has handled the layoff of more than four years. 
Oddsmakers not only made Tyson a 17-1 favorite, they are taking bets on whether or not the fight will last two full rounds. 
"I will knock Peter McNeeley out," Tyson said. 
Tyson's handlers wanted a fighter that would stand in front of the former champion and not make him look awkward. 

They found him in McNeeley, whose 36-1 
l 
) 
I / 
J 

l ' I 
l 
l ' 
i 
I ~ 
' 
' 
' l 
' ' 
1' 
record is littered with no names who collectively have a 205-441-21 record. One of McNeeley's opponents hadn't fought in 15 years, while 10 others had never won a fight. In his last bout, he earned $500 for a first-round knockout of a fighter who had 67 losses in 83 fights. 
"He has a pair of gloves and he has determina­tion," Jose Sulaiman, president of the WBC, said when looking for McNeeley's attributes. 
McNeeley's father, Tom, who was knocked down eight times while being stopped by Floyd Patterson in his Dec. 5, 1961, bid for the heavy­weight title, might be the only one singing his son's praises. 
"I know this comes from a father's heart, but he isn't the least bit intimidated," Tom McNeeley said. 
Tyson's first comeback fight prompted the MGM Grand to add some 1.200 extra seats to bring the indoor arena's capacity to more than 16,000 seats. But it remains to be seen whether the arena will be sold out at prices ranging from $200 to $1,500. 
If it is a sellout, the live gate would be a record $15 million, while revenues from the pay-per­view broadcast are also expected to approach the record gross of $48.9 million for the George Foreman-Evander Holyfield fight. 
The selling of the fight has been accomplished without much help from Tyson, who worked out behind closed doors and only. grudgingly appeared at press conferences. 
'Tm just interested in doing my thing," Tyson said. "You know what I do." 
What he used to do was knock out other fight­ers with a ferociousness unmatched in the game. Clad in black trunks and black shoes without socks, Tyson intimidated many of his 41 victims before they even left their corners. 
"This is the only thing I'm interested in doing," Tyson said. "This is what I love." Asked what fans could expect in the bout, Tyson said: "You come out and watch. I'm sure you'll find it very stimulating." 
McNeeley, who graduates from college in December, has been a virtual one-man shill for the fight, and seems to enjoy the persona he has created for the media. 


' ' 
Rec:-~ 
i . . 
RECREATIONAL SPORTS 
UNIVERSITY OF NarRE DAME 


Located in the Joyce Center 1st Floor 631-6100 



We Give Students 

Great Scores... FREE. Saturday, August 26 9 am • Take a full-length test, proctored like the real thing.• Receive a computer analysis of your test-taking strengths and weaknesses. Call 1-800-KAP-TEST to reserve your seat or sign up at 101 O'Shaughnessy get a higher score 1·800-KAP·TEST KAPLAN--·  

Saturday, August 19, 1995 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Page 27 


It's served every Thursday in the dining hall. And the scary thing is, people actually eat it. Maybe they don't see those white chunks floating in the gray beef. Or maybe they're just really hungry. Whatever their reason, you want no part of it. You know what great meat loaf . is all about. You had the best for 18 years. So you call · mom to Jet her know she's the Queen of Meat Loaf. It's a special moment between mother and son. 

/ 

page 28 The Observer • SPORTS Saturday, August 19, 1995 
• SAINT MARY'S SPORTS 

Tryout time for soccer, volleyball hopefuls 
T­
) . 
l···· 
l'
'_'.., 
.. 
r 1 
J 
I 
l· 
J 
t 
i 
i 
\. 
next few days," said head coach

Freshmen hope to mesh with new Julie Schroeder-Biek. 
Although today was only the 

soccer coach, make final roster cuts second day of tryouts, 
By CAROLINE BLUM Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
"We are an athletic team, but above all we are friends." 
These words, spoken last year by softball assistant coach and Director of Angela Athletic Facility Jan Travis, describe what several freshmen seek to discover through trying out for the sports teams at Saint Mary's this year. 
Today is the second day of tryouts for the volleyball and soccer teams, who could defi­nitely use a few new faces to offer a lift. 
The soccer team is depending on new freshmen to revive the team from last year's painful 4­12 record. 
·Also heipful to the team's suc­cess this year is the appoint­ment of a new head coach, Sierra Leone, Africa native Solomon Scholz. He claims, however, that his final team roster will not be derived from holding tryouts. 
"I don't hold tryouts," said Scholz. "Tryouts are for foot­ball or basketball. In soccer, we go out and practice, play the game, and then decide who the better players are." 
Nine freshmen have arrived for Scholz's "tryouts" so far, but more are still expected. As for the eleven returning players, Scholz is anxious to meet them later this week. 
On the opposite end of the spectrum is the volleyball team, 


Schroeder-Biek has already
which was composed of nine 
seen great potential from the
freshmen and three juniors last 
new players.
year. The team will use their 
"I saw a few freshmen that I 
new recruits from this year to 
was really happy about, and
build an even more powerful 
due to Orientation I have yet to 
team. 
see the whole batch," said
"About ten freshmen attended 
Schroeder-Biek. 
tryouts so far, but I expect that 
Together, the freshmen will
number to increase during the compete for the five open·spots on the team. The rest of the spots are already occupied by the base returning from last year. 
"With the addition of this year's freshmen I see a great year ahead for the team," said Schroeder-Biek. "Last year the team was able to recognize their potential. which opens the door for a great future." 
Last season the team finished 

Douglas Road east to Grape, tum right 
(south) onto Grape Road, 1/2 mile on left 
at stoplight, turn right for the best deals 
on carpet.
277-9711 


MON.-FRI 9:00-8:30 SAT. 9:00-5:30 SUN. 1:00-5:30 
Decorators Walk Shopping Center • Grape ·at Day Road, Mishawaka 
OVER 1000 CARPET REMNANTS ON SALE! 

with a 12-17 record and a sec­ond place finish in the Saint Mary's Invitational. The team finished second to an NCAA na­tional championship team. 
As is true for the soccer team, Schroeder-Biek trusts that once her team becomes motivated this year, they will once again be a tough team. 
Schroeder-Biek expects to have the final roster completed by next Thursday. 



"The Most Popular # on Campus" Notre Dame St.Mary's I University Village 271-1177 271-7272 (Now with 2 locations to better serve you!) 
Notre Dame 0 Voted "Best Delivered Pizza" st..Mary's 
Store Hours -1994 Best of Michiana Store Hours* 
Mon-Th 

eJ Voted ''Best Delivered Pizza'' 
Moo-Sat
I lam-lam I lam-lam

-1995 Best of Michiana llam-3am 
Fri-Sat 
SundaySun 


eJ Voted ''Best Delivered Pizza'' 
Noon-lamNoon-lam 
-1993-94 Observer 

r-----,r-h~~-,r~~~~,r~~n~~,r-~~-, 
I Large I I 4Large I I Large I I Bread Stix I I 1Small 2Topping I I 1Topping Pizza I I 1Topping Pizzas I I 1Topping Pizza I I 2Cokes I I 2Cokes I

$695 I I $2295 I I $595 I I $1000 I I $695 ~ 
I -11 -11 -11 -11 -1 L-----..1 L-----...1 L---!:"::se.J L-----...1 L-----...1 
*From 1:00am-3:00am (Fri/Sat Only) Call the ND Store for 


Saturday, August 19, 1995 
The Observer • SPORTS 


Football 
continued from page 32 
on the offensive line. 
Among those expected to step into regular playing time are linebackers Jimmy Friday and Kory Minor. Both were Parade and USA Today All­Americans, with Minor selected as the USA Today's defensive player of the year. 
Six other players were honored by Parade, including running backs Autry Denson and Jamie Spencer, offensive linemen Tim Ridder and Mike Rosenthal, defensive back Mario Strayhorn and defensive lineman Jerry Wisne. In addition, Ridder, Rosenthal and Wisne were named to the USA Today All-America first team. 
Rosenthal and Ridder have already moved up to second on the depth chart and right and left tackle, respectively. "The offensive line is the place where many freshman will have to step up and be on the second team the day we start practice." Holtz says. Holtz also expects Spencer to con­tribute from the fullback position. Spencer is listed second on the depth chart behind junior Mark Edwards. 
Other potential impact players include Joe Thomas at linebacker, Antwon Jones at defensive lineman and Kevin Kopka at kicker. 
Defensive end Lamont Bryant, expected to challenge for time behind senior captain Renaldo Wynn, suf­fered the class of 1999's first inJu.ry. Bryant and his family were involved in a car accident en route to the University from their home in South Carolina. An ear injury suffered in the accident forced Bryant to miss much of the Culver camp. 



\I~Ll)Olff1\N'i' fJ 

!AlflJ~OOiTO©OO ®00~(9)01J~ lf~ 


1995 GRADUATE STUDENT ORIENTATION EVENTS 
... SPONSORED BY THE GRADUATE aTUDENT UNION, 219 LAFORTUNE, 631-6963 ... 




Workshop -The Importance of Your Adviser as Mentor 
Workshop -Library Orientation for New Students 
Workshop -Entering the Job Market: Trends & Tools 
Welcome Back Party graduate students and significant others LIVE BAND-SABOR LATINO CCE Dining Room 
Hesburgh Library Faculty 
Lounge 
LaFortune Student Center 
Notre Dame Room 
LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame Room 
Fischer Graduate Community Center 
1or Grad Student & 21 ID required (FREE TO ALL GRAD STUDENTS) 
11:15 AM 1:30 to 2:30 PM 
1:30 to 2:30 PM 
5:30-7 PM 

All graduate students are invited to attend the Graduate Student (Union) Council (GSC) Meetings scheduled each month on the first Tuesday of the month at 7 PM in LaFortune Student center -Notre Dame Room. If your department does not have a graduate student representative, stop by the GSU office for a petition to become a voting member of the GSC! Watch for your monthly newsletters for GSC updates. 

Stop by the GSU office (219 LaFortune) and bring your graduate student J.D. & a copy of you 

"Grad News -Orientation Newsletter" and get 2-FREE TICKETS to the August 26th, South Ben Silverhawks baseball game held at the Coveleski Stadium (downtown South Bend). You mus present your grad student /.D. & have a newsletter in hand! There is a limited number of free tickets so, tickets are bein distributed on a first come first serve basis. 
page 29 
• THE fRESHMAN FtlE 
A look at the Irish recruits that are looking to make an immediate impact: 
Bobby Brown (WR, 6-3, 175) The fleet-footed Florida native may make everyone forget about a guy named Moss. 
Jimmy Friday (LB. 6-3, 230) The prototype Bob Davie line­backer--quick and hungry. 
Antwon Jones (DL, 6-4, 237) Maybe undersized, but Jones has the talent and plays a position where the Irish need help. 
Kevin Kopka (PK. 5-8, 175) Glaring weakness at kicker makes "Thunderfoot" one of the most important freshman. 
Kory Minor (LB, 6-2, 225) The most heralded Irish rook­ie should impact immediately. Impressive reviews thus far. 
Tim Ridder (OT, 6-7, 280) Penciled in as back-up tackle so he should see the field quickly. Physically ready. 
Mike Rosenthal (0T,6-7, 290) Again, the body is ready. Second on depth chart so we'll soon see if the rest is . 
Hunter Smith (P, 6-3, 195) Texan should assume punting duties starting with Northwestern. Quite athletic. 
Jamie Spencer (FB, 6-1, 245) Inevitably compared to Jerome Bettis, this load will press for time if blocking is sound. 
Jerry Wisne (DL, 6-7, 282) Big body will look to fill big hole in Irish defensive front. Prep credentials say he is ready. 
-TIM SHERMAN 

Jock 
continued from page 32 
game. It can only add up to one thing-jealousy. 
The amazing thing is how adamant some people can be in their hatred. Ustening to them, you would think the Irish are Satan's helpers. 
But as a student and fan, this won't intimidate you. It will only fuel your desire to get them mad. 
A Notre Dame hater approached me two weeks ago and told me a joke. 
"A man goes to a foreign country and wants to learn a language," he begins. "So he goes to a teacher and wants to know the word for (insert expletive here). The man answers, 'Da.' 
'"That's pretty cool,' the man answers. 'What if you have a two (insert expletive here)?' 
"'Da, Da,' the teacher answers. "'What if you have a million of them?' 
"Da, Da Da, Da Da Da Da," the man sang to the tune of the Notre Dame fight song. He started laughing hysterically. So did I. 
"Why are you laughing?" the man asked me. "Don't you know when you're being in­sulted?" 
"I told my friend the same joke the other day," I answered. "Except I used the Michigan fight song." 

.... 


I , 
l. 
r 
l
l. 
j I 
l' 

The Observer/ Rob Finch 

The women's soccer team takes a break during an afternoon practice. 
Men 

continued from page 32 While both have had strong 

preseasons, no one has claimed the starting spot. 
"We'll probably go into the season with that position open," Irish head coach Mike Berticelli said. "Both (of the freshmen) and Peter Van de Ven have looked good in pre­season. Velho has a little more experience, but Short is a very athletic kid." 

"The experience has been great," Short said of the pre­season. "Its been a big change stepping up to the next level. Everything is more intense and faster, but the guys (veteran players) have been doing a iot to help us (freshmen) out." 
Goal isn't the only place were the freshman presence will be felt. Aside from the goalies, Matt Johnson could make the quickest contribution to the team. As a starter for the U.S. under-18 squad and a final four Gatorade Player of the Year, he brings experience and great talent to the Irish. 
\ ( "Matt Johnson is making a strong bid for a starting spot," 
Matt Johnson Matt MahoneyBenjamin Bocklage

Phillip Murphy

G Vehlo 

Berticelli commented on the defensive midfielder. "He is intelligent and has all the tools. He is a very mature player. He will make a major contribu­tion." 
"I wasn't quite sure what to expect, but everyone has been very supportive," Johnson said. "I just want to play and give a consistent 110 percent." 
The Irish also hope for solid contributions from freshmen Matt Mahoney, Benjamin Bocklage and Phillip Murphy. 
Mahoney is a member of the Canadian under-18 National Team and will add valuable size and strength to the Irish defense. 
"Matt Mahoney has had a strong preseason," Berticelli said. "He has great potential." 
Both Bocklage and Murphy 

Saturday, August 19, 1995 
The Observer • SPORTS 



Women 
continued from page 32 
light while easing into the col­lege game, which suits them just fine. 
"This has been hard work," said Gerardo of the grueling two-a-day practices this week. "The practices are intense throughout." 
"Their biggest adjustments will be to the speed of the game and the physical nature," added Petrucelli. "They won't be able to bump people off the ball as easily. 
The Irish freshmen could not ask for better role models to emulate in learning the college game. 
In fact, those role models might even be too good. 
According to Petrucelli, mid­fielders Margo Tufts from Seattle, WA and Laura Vanderberg from Kalamazoo, MI would "start on most other teams." However, when the names ahead of you on the depth chart read Cindy Daws and Holly Manthei, two of the 
Defender Defender Forward Forward Goalkeeper 
were high school All-Americans and may play up front for the Irish. 
"Murphy could see some time," Berticelli said. "He has been a pleasant surprise." 


Monday-Saturday, 9:30AM-9:30PM,, Sunday, 12-6 PM Mishawaka: Indian Ridge Plaza, Grope Road and Indian Toll Rood (south of University Mall) 


best players in the country, you will likely have some time to watch and learn from the side­lines. 
Yet in the almost obligatory self-effacing way of freshmen, this year's crew is ready to do whatever it takes for the proverbial "good of the team." As Boxx explained, "Whether I'm playing or not. I can cheer the eleven players who are out there." 

However, in the future, look for the role of cheerleader to decrease substantially for this year's freshman class as they get to their real business of preserving Notre Dame's win­ning tradition. 
Get out r~( town' Ireland Progran1 Information Sessions: Fri, Aug. 18 Sat, Aug. 19 1:30 p.m. 5:00p.m. Little Theatre DeBartolo Classroom Moreau Hall Building Saint Mary's Room 140 College Notre Dame Student panel talks about study abroad at St. Patrick's College Maynooth, Ireland Everyone welcome!  






Saturday, August 19, 1995 
The Observer • TODAY page 31 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
BILL WATTERSON CLOSE TO HOME JOHN MCPHERSON 



..9-IWW .. 

DILBERT 
NOW THF\T YOU OWN THE COI"\PA NY, WHAT DO YOU PLAN TO 007 


I'LL FIRE ANYBODY WHO GIVES f"\E A DOCUMENT MARKED ''fYI" \HOSE 
PEOPLE HAVE TOO t-\UCH TII-\E ON TI-\EIR HANDS. 
51 Fab Four name 
53 Alphabet trio 
54 Rink caretakers 
55 Amiable 50's TV character 
57 Shade of red 
sa They employ red 
herrings 59 Lab work 60 Mistake fixers 
DOWN 

1 Intensity 2 Dryden's "­and Honoria" 3 Stimpy's TV friend 4 Elga~·s "King 
s Some stars 6 Sumerian earth goddess 7 Rodeo since 
1912 aWin-win solutions 9 Tennis court 
workmen 10Genesis 29 They're on theY mountain chromosome 11 Soup in Cannes 
32 Kind of brush 12 One who goes 
33 Tag players 

tocourt 13 Best prepared 
34 Stage piece for gymnastics 
35 Ornamental 15 When the Dada column movement 
36 House ousters 

began 22 German victory 
37 Scenes at dusk 

24 C. in C. 40 Cause of an 26 Soda starter attack 
The Observer 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
G 
> 
z 
ARE. YOU SURE 
~ 
THIS WILL 5ET '(OU'LL BE 
i 
ME. APART FROM SURPRISED
• 
THE OTI1ER
~ 
HOW
1: 
M..~NAGERS7
:; 
QUlCI'-.LY
~ 
~ 
~ 
::I" 
.."' 
"' 
g 
bQ 
I 


CROSSWORD 

25"The-not master in its own house": Freud 
27 Collar makers 28 Pour 30Truly 31 1955 Leslie 
Caron film musical 38 Not long. 39 Contend 40 Brief worker 46 Unanimous 
47 Insurance company paradigms 
49 Big donors of a sort 
so Replace old obligations with new 41 Long-legged 45 Head 


bird 48 Never, in 42 Resort city near Nicaragua 
Boston 52 "Gigi" 43 Dumas character playwright, 44 State ofthe art, 1951 
with "the" 56 Bar serving 
Get answers to ~ny three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75e each minute). 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

-.. 
Ray hoped that the stroller would put an end to strangers referring to Jason as a "cute little girl." 




Hey Freshmen! 

The Observer 
is looking for people to assist with daily production of the paper. 
If you have experience with desktop publishing (or if you want some) submit a resume or statement of intent to Jackie Moser. 
Call meat 1-S:JOJJ or 4-1266 with questions 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 

ACROSS 1 Having a spinning motion 8 Brouhahas 13Where Napoleon died 14 Freshen 
16 Kind of care 17 Drawn 18 Competitor of 
the Oakland t9 Poison administrant 20 Change from X to NC-17, e.g. 21 Some voters: Abbr. 23 Showy flower 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
D Enclosed is $70 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $40 for one semester 
Name ______________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ _ City---------------State----Zip,____________ 

,•­

', /:
..~ 
l\1.~
. 
,;l'···
\l 
\~',~I
I;~ " 
;r 
~ 
~. 
•., 
;'& 
0! 
,.v
'J 
,. 
·~ 
~ i' 
I~ 
I. ( 
J 
I\ 
( 
I 
i&
I .· 
I 1(
L 
I'• 
I I 
•
(
I I 
!!I 
~~ 
f 
l! 

¥ 
),.,... 
• 









SPORTS 

page 32 Saturday, August 19, 1995 
w 2Q2 

--~~--~----~----------------------~~------------~-~~---------------­
•JoCKSnuP 

The life of an Irish fan 
T
here's just black and white. There are no gray areas when you talk about Notre Dame spoi1S. 
Seeing that you decided to 
attend this university, chances are you are a pret­ty big fan 


• FooTBALL 
Irish land top class despite no-shows 
By MEGAN McGRATH Sports Wrirer 
What a difference a year makes. 

At the beginning of the 1994 football sea­son. head coach Lou Holtz was describing the freshman class like a blind date, saying they had "a lot of personality." 
Now. Holtz is trying to calm the frenzy the surrounds the much-anticipated Class of 1999. 
This season the Irish welcome one of the deepest classes in recent memory, includ­ing eight Parade All-Americans and five USA Today All-America selections. Although the loss of celebrated recruits Randy Moss and James Jackson brought Notre Dame's stock down according to some prep gurus. Holtz believes that many of the class of 1999 have the potential to make immediate impact. 
"The freshman are going to have to play a major role on this football team." Holtz said. 
The need for the freshmen to meld imme­diately with the rest of the squad con­tributed to Holtz's decision to have training camp at the secluded Culver Military Academy. 
"I think with the variety of things that happen on campus at Notre Dame during pre-season drills, they can't give the total focus," Holtz says. "I think the focus, the togetherness and blending in the upper­classmen with the freshmen will be much easier." 

Holtz refrained from singling any particu­lar frosh out. "I won't praise any of them individually because they are a group and are a very impressive group. But if there has ever been a year where we needed more help from freshman, I can't recall." 
Indeed, coming off a frustrating 6-5-1 season wh:ch saw the Irish unranked in the post season. Holtz and his staff will look to the frosh to nn some holes on defense and 
see FOOTBALL I page 29 
of the Mike Norbut 
Fighting Spons Editor Irish. And as much as you love Notre Dame, you know someone who loves to hate the school. 
You've probably already run into this, possibly at your high school graduation party this summer. 
"You're going to Notre Dame?" your mom's former roommate's business asso­ciate asks. "Rudy is my favorite movie." 
"I hate Notre Dame," retorts Butch, your blue-col­lar construction worker neighbor who spent two years at Ohio State. "Lou Holtz whines too much." 
It seems that whenever a person says, "Notre Dame," a gold helmet and shoulder pads come to mind. Knute Rockne, Ara Parseghian and Lou Holtz are gods. Football is not just a way of life. It is life. · 
But the University prides itself on more than just the House that Rockne Built. There are several other pro­grams that help make it one the finest overall athletic programs in the country. 
In 1993, the fencing team enjoyed the school's first national championship since Tony Rice and company did it in 1988. The women's soc­cer team competed in the national championship last year. 
And the men's basketball team is. well, the men's bas­ketball team. At least this year they'll be drubbed by teams like Villanova and -connecticut instead_ of Butler and Dayton. But with the last two recruiting class­es, anything can happen. 
But it's the football team that gets most of the focus. as well it should. Notre Dame is the measuring stick to which all other football programs are compared. 
That's probably why peo­ple don't like Notre Dame. The NBC contract, the num­ber of top ten finishes. the way they always win the' big 
Additions to women steam insurance for the future · 
By TIM SEYMOUR future. and they are the ones Associate Sports Editor who have to win in the future." You are the inheritors of an Based on early indications, emerging tradition of sports that future might not be far 
success, playing under the away for some of the class of most imposing microscope in 1999. Both Shannon Boxx, a intercollegiate athletics. You midfielder from Torrence, CA, have to compete for playing and Monica Gerardo, a for­time against the best players ward from Simi Valley. CA. 
in the country. You may be have the ability to make an responsible at some point for immediate impact. 
defending the preseason No. 1 "Monica and Shannon will ranking. And by the get a significant amount of way... have fun and welcome playing time." explained 
to college. Petrucelli. "Shannon is very 
This blunt message con­versatile and well-rounded, fronts the five freshmen who while Monica may be our best join the women's soccer team player with her back to the as it makes another run at the goal."national championship. Of course, on a team laden 
"My concern is not so much with returning stars, the with this year, but with the fu­freshmen will also have the ture of the program." stated luxury of avoiding the spot-head coach Chris Petrucelli. "Those freshmen are the see WOMEN I page 30 
By THOMAS SCHUDT men's soccer coaches may Assisranr Spons Ediror have to do just that. With the losses of seven starters to 
Once again its time to talk of graduation. the Irish have gap­potential. To dream of the fu­
ing holes up and down the ture. The old class is out and 
field. The good news for the the new is in. The freshman 
Irish is that this is one of their class has arrived and all of the 
strongest recruiting classes. worries and weaknesses of the They brought in two goalies, past year are solved. 
high school All-American Greg Never mind that they usually Velho and Gerick Short. to fill need time to mature. Forget the vacancy in goal after the 
the big gap between high graduation of Bert Bader. 
see JOCK I page 29 


school and college soccer. Actually, the Notre Dame 


Football 
vs. Nonhwestern September 2, 1:30 p.m. EST 
Volleyball 
vs. Nonhwestern September 1, 8 p.m. vs. USC September 2, 8 p.m. 
Men's Soccer 
at St. Louis August 26 (Exhibition) 
see MEN I page 30 
• The people of Notre Dame sports 
Women's Soccer 
see page 23 
vs. Providence September 2, 10 a.m. vs. St. John's September 3, Noon 
• The places of Notre Dame sports 
Cross Country see page 24 at Ohio State September 15 
• Saint Mary's freshmen vie for spots 
see page 28 

.. 
,. 
> 




