
Tuesday, October 10, 1995• Vol. XXVII No. 37 
TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Gift funds bookstore, multi-purpose center 
By DAVE TYLER 
News Editor 
The University of Notre Dame announced Monday that it will build a new campus bookstore with double the square footage of the current facility. ~ 
In addition to the expanded bookstore, the new building will house a headquarters for the Notre Dame Alumni Associa­tion, and a new campus visi­tor's center. It will be called Eck Center and will be located on Notre Dame Ave. , just south of the Morris Inn. 
Construetion will begin in the spring of 1997, and the new edifice will be ready for oeeu­pancy in late 1998 or eafly 1999, said university officials. 
"The facility will meet an ob­vious academie need," said Dennis Moore, direetor of Uni­versity Public Relations and in­formation. 
Frank Eck, a 1944 alumnus and longtime benefactor of the University will underwrite the construction of the new build­ing with a $10 million gift. 
"Notre Dame has benefited many times over from the ex­emplary generosity of Frank Eck, but never more than in this instance," said University President Father Edward Mal­Joy. 
Eck has previously underwrit­ten construction of Frank Eck Stadium, the University's base­ball facility, and the Eck Tennis Pavilion, an indoor tennis com­plex. 
While Eck's name will adorn the new building, the improved and enlarged bookstore will still be named for Mr. and Mrs. Romy Hammes, who donated the current bookstore with a 1955 gift. 

The expanded bookstore will double the current Hammes' 27,000 square feet. It will con­tinue to sell books and retail items. No word was yet avail­able on the future of the cur­rent Hammes. 
The new Alumni Association offices will relieve an office space shortage created by the association's greatly expanded programming, said Moore. The visitor's center, will include a reception area and auditorium. The center will fill a need on a 
see ECK/ page 6 

•Keough and O'Neill Halls along with two yet unnamed dorms will be located on the new West Quad. 

nn. 

•This is the proposed site of the new performing arts center of the DeBartolo Quad. 

COWMBUS 
WAS 

IN 

·~_r,49~l 


The Observer/Brian Hardy and Brad Prendergast 

Several students of Native American descent are offended by the murals of Christopher Columbus' exploration of America. Located on the second floor of the Main Building, the murals were the subject of a student demonstration held outside the building yester­day. The students bore placards as they argued that giving credit to Columbus for 'discovering' America triv­ialized the culture of the Native Americans who inhabit­ed the land before Columbus' arrival. 
Students protest 'disgrace' of murals 
NASA-ND calls for removal of Domes Columbus paintings 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
Associare News Editor 
Calling the murals of Christo­pher Columbus inside the Main Building "a disgrace" to the heritage of Native Americans, students from several campus minority organizations staged a protest yesterday outside the building and demanded that the administration remove the murals during the building's upcoming interior renovation. 
About 25 students from the Native American Students' As­sociation of Notre Dame, the Hispanic American Organiza­tion and the African American Student Alliance marched with placards bearing slogans such as "Columbus was discovered in 1492," "A great people in­habited the land long before 1492" and "Re-learn history" during the mid-afternoon rally. 
Chants of "Take down the murals. End the Disgrace" con­tinued throughout the march, which attracted a marginal au­dience throughout its duration. 

Yesterday's commemoration of Columbus Day served as a fitting setting for the protest, according to Candice Pascua, president of NASA-NO. 
"Columbus Day is a nationally recognized holiday that shows Columbus as our discoverer, but Columbus didn't really dis­cover us," Pascua said. "That's not the whole history, the whole truth." 
A pamphlet distributed by sympathizing students during the demonstration outlined NASA-NO's position: "We strongly disagree with the mu­rals... because they show only the European point of view. Native Americans inhabited this land long before the arrival of Columbus. 
"NASA-NO's demonstration is intended to make the Notre Dame community conscious of 
see PROTESTI page 4 
ND grad takes Nobel Prize in medicine 
By DAVE TYLER 
News Editor 
Notre Dame claimed its first Nobel Laureate Monday. 
Eric Wiechaus, a 1969 University of Notre Dame graduate shared the Nobel prize in medicine with two other scien­tists, the prize committee at Sweden's Karolinska Institute said yesterday. 
Wiechaus, 48, the Squibb professor of molecular biology at Princeton University, will share the award and the $1 million prize with Edward Lewis, 77, of the California Institute of Technology and Christiane Nusslein­Volhard, 52, of Germany's Max Planck Institute. The trio were honored for their work in the genetic control of early embryonic development. 
"Together, these three scientists have achieved a breakthrough that will help explain congenital malformations in man," the Nobel citation said. 
see NOBEL/ page 4 

Accident sends student to ER 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
Associate News Editor 
A female Notre Dame student was struck by a car at the intersection of Bulla and Juniper Roads yesterday. 
The off-campus student was riding 
her while heading west on Bulla Road toward campus as she approached the red light at the inter­section. A witness said that the stu­dent ignored the signal and was attempting to cross 

the intersection when a car moving southbound on Juniper Road hit her. 
The student was transported by Notre Dame Security to St. Joseph Medical Center, where she was treated for abra­sions to her legs and was released. 
The driver of the car was not cited in the accident. 

page2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, October 10, 1995 
• INSIDE COLUMN 



The great long distance link 
It hangs there on the ----.---­
wall above my desk like a Catherme Deely 
beacon of shame. I've Accent Copy Editor mounted it there as a form of penance for my errant ways, but looking at it still causes me to feel something closely resembling actual physical pain, for there is no denying its siren-like shriek of truth: 628 minutes; $109.12. 
My statement of services rendered by Cincinnati Bell Long Distance for the period beginning August 21. 
As I attempted to hold onto some focus dur­ing the dizziness of Freshman Orientation and my first uncertain weeks here at Notre Dame, I never dreamed I would fmd a way to spend so much time attached to my room telephone ... but I did. I suppose I could bow out and plead only a crippling case of home­sickness, but I will confess to a far more dan­gerous ailment: a big mouth, combined with contacts at home suffering from the same affiiction. 
Oh, it started out innocently enough ... the "getting adjusted" talks with my parents, the rundown on college life for all my friends who had not yet left. odds and ends thrown in between rushing across campus, going to class, and meeting seemingly thousands of new people. Then, gradually, the phone began to beckon to me each and every time I had a moment which threatened to be quiet. I found myself calling people I'd lost touch with long before graduation. Now that I was officially at ND, I suddenly discovered that generosity and a willingness to forgive had spontaneously generated in my personality. 
Luckily for my already mounting tab, the 
Golden Dome eventually ceased to symbolize 
my olive branch, and so my phoning pangs 
subsided ... until I was confronted with a new 
challenge: voice mail. My evil hometown 
friends spent considerable time and energy 
plotting exactly when I would be out of my 
room, so they could cunningly leave guilt­
inducing messages: "Well, you're probably 
having too much fun at ND to think of giving 
me a call, but... ", forcing me to call back. I 
would try my best to resist, but all of the fas­
cinating stories and gossip within me needed 
somewhere to spill. "Hey, what's up?" dis­
solved into minutes ... hours...lots and lots of 
money. 
With the phone bill came a harsh dose of 
reality. I swore the calls would stop; if I had 
to sever my ties to the entire state of Rhode 
Island to ensure myself sufficient funding for 
Papa John's, sobe it. But it hasn't been that 
simple. While I am fast feeling "at home" 
with the people I've met here, the fact 
remains that there are some things only the 
people who have known and put up with you 
for years can fully appreciate and under­
stand. So, while I am making a concerted 
effort to satisfy my phone cravings with on­
campus calls, my ears still perk up each time 
that double ring sounds. 
And so each time my roommate picks up 
and wearily, patiently mouths, "It's for you," 
and I drag my link to the past 18 years out 
into the hallway to start a marathon conver­
sation about everything now and anything 
th~n. I know each time I hang up means let­
ting go a little more. I glance over at my 
$109.12 glaring reminder, know I should feel 
guilty ... but sometimes I just shrug it off. It's 
still OK to go back and indulge a little every 
now and then, after all. 
CBLD will never argue with me. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Production Jamie Heisler Tara Grieshop Deborah Schultz Jackie Moser Lab Tech Sports Michael Hungeling Dave Treacy Viewpoint Marty Dickinson Graphics Ed Dawson Tom Roland Vicky Pratte 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Assodatc:d Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 

Powerful earthquake shakes Mexico's Pacific coast 

MEXICO CITY 
A powerful earthquake shook Mexico's Pacific coost Monday morning, toppling a seven-story hotel in a south­ern resort, cracking homes and bridges and killing at least 29 people, authori­ties said. 
More than 90 people were hurt by the 
7.6 magnitude quake, which was felt as far north as Dallas and Oklahoma City, according to seismologists. It was the second powerful tremor to hit Mexico in a month. 
The quake struck at 9:37 a.m. and was centered three miles off the Pacific Coast between Colima and Jalisco states. The tremor lasted about two minutes and was followed by two small aftershocks. 
Rescuers with bulldozers and cranes pulled 12 bodies and 10 injured people from the Costa Real hotel in the port and resort area of Manzanillo, the offi­cial news agency Notimex quoted civil protection officials as saying. Authorities feared the toll would rise. 
"The rescue is going to be difficult," Navy Adm. Manuel Barron told the Mexican TV network Televisa. "Sounds have been heard. We think there are more people in the rubble." 

Poll: Voters would choose Powell 
MANCHESTER, N.H. 
A poll shows Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole leading his Republican presi· dential rivals in New Hampshire but nearly a third of those surveyed would change their vote if Colin Powell joins the field. The survey released Monday by WMUR-TV in Manchester found that of 483 Republican voters contacted, 35 percent would vote for Dole if Powell 


were not in the race. All other GOP candidates were mired in single digits and 21 percent of voters were un­decided. If Powell were to run as a Republican, 38 per­cent of those surveyed said they would stay with their original candidate, 31 percent would support Powell and an equal number would consider supporting the retired general, the survey found. Powell has promised a deci­sion next month on whether to enter the presidential race. 

Contact lenses cause infections 
ORLANDO 
Disposable contact lenses are causing thousands of serious eye infections each year despite manufacturers' claims that they are safer than reusable lenses, re­searchers said Monday. Overnight use of contact lenses has been known to be associated with an increased risk of infections, the worst of which can lead to blindness. Disposable lenses were introduced with the idea that they would reduce the opportunities for bacterial contamination, because they wouldn't be handled as much and wouldn't be stored in solutions that could har­bor germs. "That idea was simple, easy and wrong," said Dr. H. Dwight Cavanagh, a professor of ophthalmol­ogy at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center at Dallas. Speaking at a seminar sponsored by Research to Prevent Blindness, a voluntary organization that supports research, Cavanagh said: "The implication now in mass marketing of disposable lenses is that these things are safe -game over, time out, totally safe. That's not true." Cavanagh stressed that the risk of infections with any contact lens is small. 
At least 30 guests were registered at 
the hotel and 27 employees were 
working there, Notimex said. It was 
not clear how many were in the build­
ing when the quake hit. 
Reached by telephone, Manzanillo 
textile ·shop owner Livas de la Garza 
said the injured were being treated in 
makeshift outdoor clinics. He said he 
saw extensive damage. 
"You can see houses destroyed. The 
injured are everywhere," he said. 
The quake cut telephone service and 
tllectricity to many areas, including the 
resort itself. A local airport runway 
was reported damaged. 
A state of emergency was declared in 
the state of Jalisco, where homes and 
buildings crumbled. President Ernesto 
Zedillo sent five cabinet members to 
assess the damage and coordinate an 
emergency plan by the military. 
Jalisco state spokeswoman Claudio 
Villalobos said six people were dead 
and at least 80 injured in the two small 
towns of Tenamaxtlan and Ameca, 
northwest of Manzanillo. 
Both towns were isolated by rock­
slides and collapsed bridges, and tele­
phone service and power were report­
ed out. 


Cotton growers complain of blight 
LOS COYOTES, Texas 

Clifford Smith shamefully admits being one of 831 Rio Grande Valley cotton farmers who approved a program to eradicate the boll weevil that ravages their crops. Now he is leading the effort to eradicate the program itself, blaming the spraying for a different insect blight. "I'm just as guilty as the other guy, but once I make a mistake I don't make another," Smith said. "We need to get the boll weevil eradication program out of the Rio Grande Valley before it puts us out of the cotton busi­ness." The problem is that a different insect took over where the boll weevils left off and laid waste to cotton fields, costing farmers millions in losses and costing the federal government millions in insurance payouts. Two 
U.S. Department of Agriculture scientists blame that out­break on the weevil eradication program itself. The sci­entists said in a September report that widespread spray­ing with malathion didn't just kill the boll weevils; it also killed the good bugs that eat boll weevils and other pests. 

Wu urges boycott of Chinese products 
PARIS 

Harry Wu, the Chinese-American activist who spent 19 years in China's labor camps, urged France on Monday to ban imports of products -including tea and rubber boots-made by Chinese prisoners. "Millions of prison­ers doing forced labor for 10 to 12 hours a day without pay, in 1,000 camps, including 12 in Tibet, allow China to export many goods at unbeatable prices," Wu told reporters at a news conference organized by the human rights group France Libertes. Expelled from China in August after 66 days in detention, Wu exhibited a slew of items stamped "Made in China" -including a flashlight, saws, hammers and a forklift. All were purchased in France. He called on the French Parliament to draft leg­islation banning the import of goods manufactured by about 8 million prisoners working in Chinese labor camps. They include artificial flowers, rubber boots, diesel motors, steel tubes and tea. Thirty-three percent of China's tea production-the world's largest-comes from labor camps, Wu said. Wu moved to the United States in 1985 and became a citizen. 

• NATIONJU. WEATHER 
Tuesday, Oct. 10 

Accu-Weather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high The AccuWeather<B> forecast for noon, Tuesday, Oct. 10. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1995 AccuWeather, Inc. 

Pressure 
H L B ESI !Til 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUCft' CLOUDY 
Atlanta 75 55 Dallas 87 58 New Orleans 81 50 Baltimore 73 47 Denver 67 36 New York 70 50 Boston 67 49 Los Angeles 77 65 Philadelphia 70 50 Chicago 73 51 Miami 87 77 Phoenix 94 62 
C 1995 AccuWaather, Inc. 
Columbus 72 44 Minneapolis 61 51 St. Louis 79 54 
-

Tuesday, October 10, 1995 
The Observer • NEWS page 3 
• RESIDENTS' HALL ASSOCIATION • CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 



Forum focuses on dance policy 
By HEATHER CROSS 
Nows Writor 
Last night the Saint Mary's 1\esidence Hall Association (HilA) held an open forum to discuss the 10:00 p.m. dance rule. 
The rule, instituted in 1993, sot a policy that all students and their guests attending a hall dance would arrive by 10 
p.m. This rule was not passed through IUIA but was agreed upon by the hall directors. 
To begin the forum, hall di­rector Colleen McKenna ex­plained the main reason for adopting the rule. She cited problems of "property damages that occur at the dances," some close to $500, caused by guests that arrived intoxicated. 
McKeenna said the 10:00 rule was a solution that the hall di­rectors found when looking for an answer to the problem. It was not a "catch-all" rule, but by instituting a 10:00 curfew, they cut down on the time that students were drinking before they arrived at the dance. 
During the open forum, stu­dents brought up issues against and in support of this rule. The hall directors, as well as the Di­rector of Residence Life and the Dean of Student Affairs, were on hand to contribute and to offer the staff's views. RHA vice-president Barb VanDersarl cited that the College's mission statement "emphasizes respon­sibility," and that the rule "seems almost like a slap in the face" to that responsibility. 
In response to this, another student pointed out that some women at the college did not a~;t responsibly. One resident recalled an incident last year at the LeMans Hall dance at 


by Beta Alpha Psi members 
" 


Sundays 6:00-7:00 PM Tuesdays 6:00-7:00 PM 

(tutoring will NOT be available during Fall Break, Thanksgiving Break, Spring Break, and Easter Break) 

Basement Lounge of COBA 

For more information call Eric Lorge at 232-2954 
which "some drunk pulled the fire alarm" and all of the guests were forced to leave. 
Despite the rule, many stu­dents agreed that the "people who wanted to drink started earlier and came just as drunk as before." But the hall direc­tors pointed out that the results were clear: even though it did not solve all problems, the 
10:00 rule did curb the occur­rence of rowdy and unsafe ac­tions that were the result of al­cohol. 
The staff called upon the stu­dents to come up with a policy which they could implement to better deal with the problem of drinking before dances. 
Many solutions were offered. One suggestion was to change dance times to allow less time for drinking before or after the dance. Another proposal was to punish those who do show up intoxicated, possibly by pro­hibiting them from attending any dances for that year. 
The open forum proved to be invaluable in gathering resi­dents' opinions, but the ques­tion of the 10:00 rule is still in debate. The RHA invites all Saint Mary's residents to attend their next meeting, which will be held at 9:15 p.m. next Mon­day on Haggar's third floor. 
9;211 p.~n. AIJI\Ivarsltll transported by Security Medical Center for trealm!!n1 of a lacera,. tlon. 
9:30 p.m. Security transpprted a University employee tQ. Memorial Hospital fortreatment of aleg Injury. · 
Are you agay or lesbian undergraduate? Are you uncertain about your sexual orientation? 

You are welcome and you belong at Notre Dame. Campus Ministry welcomes you and invites you to join with us and with each other. 
Come talk about... 
. . . your questions and concerns ...discussing your sexuality with family andfriends . . .your faith ... what's going right; what's going wrong. 
All conversations are confidential. 
For more information, please call 
Kate Barrett (1-5242) Fr. Bob Dowd, CSC (1-7800/1-5056) 



(DMPUS
Fr. Tom Gaughan, CSC (1-6777) 


MINISTRY 

l 
l 
l
Council works to create unified campus calendar 
By AMY SCHMIDT 
Assistant News Editor 
In an effort to avoid campus­wide scheduling conflicts, the Campus Life Council (CLC) is working to create a unified campus calendar that would be available through university computing systems. 
According to Katie Lawler, student union board manager, the overlapping of events has become a major frustration across campus. 
Lawler has been working with Linda Brady of the Center for Continuing Education (CCE) calendar office to brainstorm possibilities. 
Brady said that there are currently two calendar options for students: the printed calen­dar distributed by the CCE and the weekly calendar accessed through Turbo Gopher. 
"The computer calendar is much more current," said Brady. " It's a good means of communication, and can be updated daily." 
Assistant Vice President for Student Affairs Bill Kirk said that his vision for the calendar would include a home page on the World Wide Web. 
"There would be a point where you could click on that would be tailored to your spe­cific needs," said Kirk. 
Kirk went on to say that in order to make this calendar a reality, other university offices need to be contacted, including Hall President's Council, Public Relations, the Registrar's Of­fice, and Student Union Board. 
Lawler said that ideally, a campaign would start immedi­ately following fall break to survey the interest of various offices and organizations. 
In other CLC news, plans are underway for the renovation of South Dining Hall. 
Kirk said that added space is necessary due to the increase of residents from Keough and O'Neill Halls. The plans include changing the facade of the south side of the dining hall, and adding another entrance. 
There has also been discus­sion about the elimination of the Oak Room from the front of South Dining Hall. 
Kirk said that the university would provide for a new Oak Room-type facility for students in the event of its elimination. 

·s>;m. A visitor reported vandalism vt~hlcle while parked In the Visitor's parking lot. 
6:37 p.m. A Fisher Hall resident report· ed the ti'lett of number Items from his room; 
SUN., OCT.8 
9:40 11.m. An Alumni Hall resident was transported by Security to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of an Illness. 
11:39 a;m. A Stanford Hall resident reported damages to his vehicle while parked in the A15 parking lot. 
8:51 p.m. A Siegfried Hall resident reported the theft of her license plate from her vehicle while parked In the Eck Pavilion parking lot. 

Ueieb:rft;~e ft; :r:r:t.ei1d"8 b:l.:r~:h.dft;y ~·~.. 
~ 8:pee:i.ft;I_ «»bse:rve:r ft;d. 

\ 

r page4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, October 10, 1995 
• STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 





SAB plans include 'Blizzard' 
Nobel 
continued from page 1 
The scientists used the fruit fly, well-known to generations of biology students as the basis for their experiments. 
Wieschaus and Nusslein­Volhard identified a number of genes that are key in determin­ing the body plan and forma­tion of body segments. 
Lewis, who worked indepen­dently, investigated how genes could control development of individual body segments into specialized organs. 
In people, flaws in such genes are probably responsible for some early miscarriages and some of the roughly 40 percent of birth defects for which no cause is known, ac­cording to the Nobel citation. 
For Wieschaus, the honor was profound. 
"When I was a young scien­tists, I was just so thrilled to be in the lab, so excited to do ex­periments. During that time, in the late 1970's...I never really thought about a Nobel," he said. 
The experience of being noti­fied was amazing, Wieschaus said. 
"We were asleep, there was this phone call. This man spoke to me in a Swedish accent. I thought he probably had the Wrong nutnber. Maybe he did, but they're not going to take it back." 
Weischaus said he and his 
co-workers will share the 
prize. "they're friends. I think 
we'll be able to figure out how 
to divide it up I think I'll go out 
and buy some books." 
Kenyon Tweedell, professor
emeritus of biological sciences at Notre Dame taught Wi­

;:z::~:~i:~:~·:3~f:.~d~:': 
"Every one in the department is very happy," Tweedell said. "We all felt he was an excellent prospect, for graduate school at least, but who could have expected he'd go on to such great things?" 
"It's very gratifying when a former major goes on and wins such a prestigious award," said Tweed ell. 
Wieschaus now hopes to con­tinue his work with the same enthusiasm that earned him the award. 
"Our major task now is to discover how these genes con­trol development," he said. 
"We are interested, not just in the catalog of genes, but in knowing how it is that they affect molecular processes in the human cell. 
The winners will be honored at a ceremony Dec. 10 in Stockholm with the year's other laureates. 
Last year, the medicine prize was shared by two Americans, Alfred Gilman and Martin Rodbell, for their discovery of G-proteins-elements central to understanding diseased cells. 
The Nobel memorial prize in economics will be announced today, the physics and chem­istry prizes Wednesday, and the peace prize Friday. 
The literature winner, Irish poet Seamus Heaney, was an­nounced Wednesday. 
The Associated Press con­tributed to this report. 

By CLAIRE HALBRITTER News Writer 
!.:.::C=-=""'--------­
The Student Activities Board met last evening and plans to bring pianist George Mauer to Saint Mary's for a Valentine's Day reception were finalized. Mauer will be performing on Feb. 13, 1996 at 7:30p.m., in the Stapleton Lounge at Saint Mary's. 
Mauer will be in the center with just his piano and a micro­phone and coffee and assorted desserts will be served. 
The Blizzard of Buck's plans 


Protest 

continued from page 1 
Native Americans and the his­tory of Columbus. We encour­age members of our school and neighboring community to take a new and in-depth look at his­tory, a history that many of us may not have been taught," the pamphlet continued. 
Nikole Hannah, a member of AASA, refuted the notion that the murals should be kept even though they represent the tra­ditions of Caucasians, the eth­nic group from which the majority of members of the Notre Dame community come. 
"Tradition doesn't make it right," Hannah said. "Notre Dame is supposed to be our home, but as long as these mu­rals remain, we can never be a part of the Notre Dame family." 
Reymundo Diaz, a member have also been cast in stone. The "Blizzard" will take place on Nov. 6 at 7:30 p.m. in Car­roll Auditorium. 
The cost will be $2 per stu­dent. There will be a preview show in the Saint Mary's dining hall from 4:30 to 5:30 p.m. 
The actual Blizzard of Bucks show Will last approximately one hour and fifteen minutes. 
The Halloween plans were discussed again last evening: There will be aTarrot-card reader/fortune teller for the students, as well as grab bags and Halloween treats at Dal-
of NASA-ND, agreed. "Think about my people's history," he said. "We're celebrating a day of disgrace to us because Columbus got credit for only stumbling upon a culture that was already strong." 
After marching outside the Main Buiding, a group of the students moved inside with the intent of talking to the adminis­tration about the possible re­moval of the murals. 
The Office of Student Affairs referred them to Jeffrey Shoup of the Office of Residence Life, who told them to contact Dean Porter, director of the Snite Museum, in order to pursue their complaint against the art­work. 
The students also spoke with Roland Smith, assistant to the president of the University, who referred them to Porter as well. Porter, a member of the Notre Dame art community for nearly thirty years, has dealt in the loways on Mon., Oct. 30. 
In Other News: 
•Last 
week's Happy Hour had a turn out of 110 people and was a great success. The next Happy Hour has been sched­uled for Nov. 16. 

• 
President Mary Udovich brought up the idea of having a spring athletic event, possibly a triathalon, for a campus wide event. 

•SAB 
will be participating in a NACA (National Association of Campus Activities) seminar the week of Nov. 16-19. 


past with a number of ques­tions concerning sculptures, murals and other artwork on campus. 
Upon hearing about the stu­dents' attempts to meet with University officials, Patricia O'Hara, vice-president of stu­dent affairs, sent a memo later in the afternoon to the stu­dents, offering to meet with them to discuss their concerns sometime this week. 
Porter, too, also offered to speak with the students. "I hope that they give me a call tomorrow, because I'd like to talk with them about their con­cerns," he told The Observer last night. 
The interior renovation of the building -the time at which the student demonstrators hope the murals will be removed -is slated to begin in the summer of 1997 and is expected to last until the sum­mer of 1999. 





Macintosh computers 
are nowon sale. 




We think your life would be vastly improved ifyou possessed this piece you could get your homework done faster. Then you'd have time for of knowledge: Macintosh"computers are now available for less than 
the more important things in life. Anyway, sorry to Ap 1.,_the already affordable student prices.Just think, ifyou had acomputer, disturb you. Macintosh. The power to be your bese pe . 
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB •631-7477 M-F9am-5pm 

ctfers expire OclrJber 13, 1995. ©1995Apple CompuJer, Inc. All rights reserwd. Apple, the Apple logo, Macintosh and "7be power to beyour best" are regislered tradei1Ulrks ofApple Computer. Inc Card.Shop Plus is a ·tered frade. marl! ofMindscape. All Mactnlosh romputers are designed to be accessible to Individuals wUb disabi/1/y. 7b learn more (U.S. only), cal/800-600-7808 or m 800·755-0601. Still reading? Maybeyou should think ab':; taw school. 


Tuesday, October 10, 1995 
The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Saint Mary's offers 'unique' internship CARE: 
Business majors to work at firms 
in South Bend 
By LAURA SMITH News Writer 
While many college juniors and seniors are only thinking about life after graduation, sev­eral Saint Mary's students will be experiencing the real world next semester. 
The Saint Mary's College In­ternships in the Busines!! Pro­gram allow Saint Mary's junior and senior business majors to work in local organizations during the Spring Semester. An informational meeting will h11 ht~ld for interested students Tuesday, Octoher 10 at 5 p.m. in 24 7 Madaleva IIall. 
These int11rnships require 8­10 hours of work each week. Students earn three credits for partieipating in the program. But they gain much more than collnge credit for their efforts. 
"I gained a lot of real world tlxperinnce in my internship with Coopers and Lybrand" said Jennifer Myers, a junior accounting major and 1994 program participant. "It was interesting to see how the rules I learned in class applied to the real world." 
The students are selected for internships through an exten­sive application process. Only about half the applicants are selected as interns. Once se­lected, the internship advisor interviews each student to de­termine her specific interests and talents. 
Then the intern is placed with an appropriate or­ganization. 
According to Saint Mary's College Professor of Business Administration Claude Ren­shaw, the internship program has received enormous support from the South Bend commu­nity. 
~'It's a win-win situation for local organizations" said Renshaw. 
"They receive good help for free." Renshaw receives many more requests for interns than he has students to fill the posi­tions. 
Organizations place student interns on a certain project. 
The intern is required to write several memos throughout the semester to her supervisor in the organization and her in­ternship advisor. These memos describe what the student has done and what she would like to do in the organization. 
Interns learn responsibility in addition to real world experi­ence, according to Adrienne Samardzija. 
Samardzija, a senior account­ing and finance major. worked at Norwest Bank last semester. "If someone in the organization expects you to have something done, it has to be done and done on time" Samardzija said. 
The internship also helped Samardzija learn more about the banking industry than she could have learned through a textbook. 
"My internship opened up new aspects of banking for me" said Samardzija. "I realized how much banking is a service industry and how important it is to maintain client contact." 
The final requirement for the Internship in Business is a ma­jor oral presentation in Staple­ton Lounge. All the interns in­vite individuals from their or­ganization to attend. The crowd of about 50 people listen as each intern gives a ten minute professional presenta­tion of her project. 

The Internship in Business is unique to Saint Mary's. According to Renshaw, it is the only internship he is aware of that is designed in this way. "The Internship in Business is definitely unique to South Bend" said Renshaw. "Notre Dame, IUSB, Bethel, they don't have it." 
Megan Reilly, a senior ac­counting major who interned at Christine Lauber last spring, recommends students partici­pate in the program. 
"You learn so much more than in the classroom" Reilly said. 
"You encounter unexpected problems that could never be simulated in a classroom set­ting." 
Professor Renshaw also en­courages students to think about a Business Internship. 
"It's an absolutely fantastic experience which relates directly to interns career inter­ests" said Renshaw. "It's real solid experience for a students resume." 
BEFORE TRUSTING YOUR FUTURE TO ANY CO.MPANY; ASI( FOR SO.ME LEITERS OF REFERENCE. 
Y
ou put more than just your savings into a retirement company. You put in your trust and hopes for the future, too. So before you choose one, ask some questions. How stable is the company? How solid are its investments? How sound is its overall financial health? 
A good place to start looking for answers is in the ratings of independent analysts. Four companies, all widely recognized resources for finding out how strong a financial services company really is, gave TIAA their top grade. 
IN THE FINAL ANALYSIS, TIAA IS LETTER PERFECT. 
TIAA received A++ (Superior) from A.M. Best Co., AAA from Duff & Phelps Cr~dit Rating Co., Aaa from Moody's Investors Service and AAA from Standard & Poor's. These ratings reflect TIAA's stability, sound investments, claims-paying ability and overall financial strength. (These are ratings of 

Ensuring the future for those who shape it.... 

insurance companies only, so they do not apply to CREF.) 
And TIAA-which, backed by the company's claims-payin~ ability, offers a guaranteed rate of return and the opportunity for dividends-is one of a handful of insurance companies nationwide that currently hold these highest marks. 
CREF, FOUR MORE LETTERS EVERYONE SHOULD KNOW. 
For further growth potential and diversification, there's the CREF variable annuity, with seven different investment accounts to give you the flexibility you want as you save for the future. 0 
Together, TIAA and CREF form the world's largest private retirement system base·d on assets under management, with over $145 billion in assets and more than 75 years ofexperience serving the education community. For over a million and a half people nationwide, the only letters to remember are TIAA-CREF. 
•Not all account• are available under the basic retirement plana at all inatitutiona. They are, however, all available for TJ.AA.CREF Supplemental Retirement Annuitieo (SRA.). CREF certificate• are diatributed by TJAA.CREF Individual & Institutional Services. 

Alcohol not an excuse 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
News Writer 
Rape happens here at Notre Dame just as it happens on any other campus. This was the position advanced yesterday in a presentation given by the Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination(CARE) to a small crowd of mostly men. 
The presentation confronted the issue of rape on campus and what can be done about it. "Quite often rape gets pigeon­holed as a women's issue," said Adrian Duran a sopho­more from Keenan Hall, "but it affects men as well." 
The presenters were sur­prised by a mostly male turnout. 
The presentation began with a scenario acted out by Tanya Scapanski, a junior from Pas­querilla East and member of CARE, and a volunteer from the audience proving the point that "rape is the only crime where the victim is ques­tioned." 
CARE went on to say that al­cohol simply makes a situation that is conducive to rape worse. It loosens inhibitions and it often cancels the ability of a victim to respond to his/her attacker or to even walk away. 
"But alcohol is not an excuse. nor is it usable as a defense under the law in Indiana," said Ceila Loughlin, a senior from Breen-Philips. 
CARE is a campus group of students that was created to inform the campus about the problem of rape. It sponsors Sexual Assault Awareness Week every year and gives this presentation all year round. However, they will be changing the format of the presentation to one of volunteer role-play­ing. 
This change is being used to draw the audience more into the presentation and has got­ten very positive reactions at other universities. CARE has training sessions year round and is always looking for new members. 
The presentation was co­sponsered by the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education as part of Alcohol Awareness Week. "Alcohol Awareness Week is a great opportunity to focus on aspects of our lives affected by alcohol," said Kelly Landry, a member of the Office. 
The focus of the Office of Al­cohol and Drug Education is that students should make in­formed, responsible decisions on how much and how often to drink. 
"Often we are seen as just where people are sent for an assessment," said Landry, "But we are also a resource, a place where these types of dis­cussions [about the problems of alcohol] can take place." 
"The goal of this week is just to get people talking about the effects of alcohol throughout the rest of the year," said Landry. 
Alcohol Awareness continues today and all this week. Today, there is a "Disoriented Domer Dash". Wednesday there is a Fitness Walk and Mocktails in the Dining Halls. Thursday, the last day of Alcohol Awareness Week, the movie Bram Stoker's Dracula will be shown in DeBartolo with a discussion to follow. 


page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, October 10, 1995 

Eck Ayo: 'Hail Mary' embodies three mysteries 
.
continued from page 1 

By MARILYN ALIOTO 
as the mere possibility of campus that is a popular News Writer prayer, "God has the time and tourist attraction, said Moore. the interest to speak to each of 
Eck graduated from Notre Father Nicholas Ayo, an asso­us" Ayo said. Dame with a degree in chemi­ciate professor in the University The second mystery of prayer cal engineering. He is chair­of Notre Dame's Program of is that "God knows we need man and chief executive officer Liberal Studies, gave a lecture before we ask, we don't have to of Advanced Drainage Systems, last night entitled "Hail Mary," cajole him" rather, we "ought Inc. of Columbus, Ohio. He has which drew heavily on his most to pray for everything and not been a member of the Universi­recent book "The Hail Mary: A use God as a last resort" Ayo ty's College of Engineering Ad­Verbal Icon of Mary." said. "Praying to God should be visory Council since 1984. Reverend Ayo presented two a way of living to always and aspects of Mary: the· person everywhere give Him thanks." and the Mother of God. The The third mystery of prayer
•BOG 

first two lines of the Hail Mary is that we ask Mary and other prayer are the angel Gabriel saints in heaven to intercede and Elizabeth, Mary's sister, for our cause. Ayo assures
Board votes 

addressing Mary with the ut­"you don't have to be rich to get most respect. patronage in heaven, you were As the prayer unfolds, Mary is given it in baptism because God
The Observer/Brian Hardy 


to restart 

portrayed as "a model and the Father Nicholas Ayo, associate professor for the Program of Liberal wanted everyone to be easily premier Christian in the Studies presents the two aspects of Mary in his lecture entitled "Hail accessible to His throne." The Church." Her role as the Mary" last evening. Ayo described Mary as both a person and the last lines "pray for our sinners

Law Society 

Mother of God ensures us that mother of God, drawing much of his lecture from his most recent book now and at the hour of our the "life of Jesus, if only trans­"The Hail Mary: A Verbal leon of Mary." death" further emphasize
By MARGARET KENSINGER ferable once, was transferred questionable conditions. She is ple and friend, not just a care­Mary's important role.

News Writer 

to Mary and therefore there is a refugee to Egypt where she giver" and that "she is a The "Hail Mary" can be hope for all of us." raises, guides, and disciplines woman of faith, the first Chris­paralleled to the story ofBOG is hard at work again. 
Although not ever-present in her son. As a mother she tian to intercede in prayer, the Christmas, representing theThis week they welcomed new the Bible, it is crucial to know "knows the pain when the child first witness of the Christian beginning of Jesus' life and
member, Katie Webby, the 

that Mary is present from the grows and leaves her side." death, the first woman to re­Mary's life as His Mother,newly elected president of the beginning to the end of Jesus' When her son is crucified on ceive the Holy Spirit and the through Easter, the death andfreshman class at Saint Mary's. 
life. As a woman, Mary is an the cross and all of the men only one who knows Jesus from resurrection of Jesus that led to They also voted on two major unwed mother who chooses to leave, Mary's devotion to her beginning to end." Mary's assumption; theproposals for Saint Mary's, the keep her child. She has to tell child remains admirable. She The second part of the prayer Madonna of the first part of thefirst of which dealt with the re­her fiance that he must make is "one of the mothers through­is devoted to Mary as the prayer blends into the Pieta at
initiation of the Pre-Law 

room for her vocation and the out the century who knows Mother of God. Beginning with the end. 
Society into Saint Mary's. 

arrival of her special son. what it is like to have a son "Holy Mary Mother of God", the The mention of death at theThe school's division of this While pregnant, Mary travels taken away." Without an edu­prayer embodies the mystery of end of the "Hail Mary" repre­
organization was disbanded 

to assist her sister Elizabeth cation, Mary "represents the the incarnation. In asking sents the "birthing into eternaltwo years ago due to lack of with her pregnancy and we fmd poor, the oppressed, and a mi­Mary to "pray for us" we ask life on the day of our own death
leadership. BOG voted to 

an "unexpected richness in her nority race" Ayo said. her to intercede in our relation­and in death, that is when werestart the Pre-Law Society at poverty." She gives birth to Ayo stressed that ''Mary's ship with God. need our Mother most," Ayo
Saint Mary's because of a 

Jesus without a midwife and in union with Jesus was as a disci-Ayo presents the first mystery concluded.
rekindled interest shown by Saint Mary's students in the Notre Dame branch of the club. 

______1.
Recycle The Observer EARN CASH by DONATING
BOG also approved a propos­

al put forth by the Notre Dame Hispanic dance troop "Ballet 
L--
Folklorico." This is a Notre Dame organization that has traditionally been funded by Notre Dame. The group's pro­

Super!!!
posal involved their wish for additional funding for much 

You're
needed costuming. BOG voted to help fund the costuming since the troop contrives Finally equally of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame members. The 
21 
group is looking to apply for a branch of their troop at Saint Mary's in the near future. 

.BOG is. als.o. putting. the finishing touches on two of Happytheir major upcoming projects, the revision of the Saint Mary's Birthday,Student Constitution and the re-opening of the Haggar Chris. Center. Both of these projects will be completed following October break. 

The Council for the Retarded in conjunction with the Logan Cen desperately needs tickets for the 
usc 


Game 
e Only student tickets are needed. e There is a possibility that your money will be refunded. 
Please help us reach our goal of5D tickets. For more Information call: Michael Carney@ 634-1057 
Shane Kanlecki @ 284-5156 


You could earn: 

$30°0after your first plasma donation! $1500 
if you donate alone (first visit) +$ 500 if you show college I. D. (first visit) +$1 000 per person if you recrurt someone and they donate $30°0 TOTAL! 
Help Us Save Lives Must be 18 years old; proof of current address with photo 1.0. 
COME TO:  HOURS:  
AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL  M-F:  9-6  
515 LiNCOLNWAY WEST  SAT:  8-5  
SOUTH BEND, IN 46601-1117  234-6010  

Tuesday, October 10, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
ByLUNASHYR 
Associated Press 
HYDER, AZ. 

Saboteurs calling themselves "Sons of Gestapo" pulled 29 spikes from a stretch of rail­road track, sending an Amtrak train hurtling over a bridge into a dry stream bed Monday, authorities said. One person was killed and about 100 were injured. 
A note found outside the train in a remote expanse of desert referred to the federal sieges at Waco, Texas, and Ruby Ridge, Idaho -both rallying cries for right-wing, anti-government extremists. 
"That's what leads me to be­lieve this· is a terrorist attack," said Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio. Asked who might be responsible, he said, "It leans toward the domestic side." 
Amtrak's Sunset Limited, bound from Miami to Los Ange­les with 248 passengers and 20 crew members, derailed while crossing a 30-foot-high bridge 50 to 60 miles southwest of Phoenix sometime after 1 a.m. 
Four cars plunged from the bridge at 50 mph, with three 
Sabotage causes train to plunge 
ND launches chapter of 
coming to rest on their sides on the Passenger 




business organization
sandy bottom of the train derails 
desert wash. Passengers, jolted awake, made their way through jum­bled belongings and crawled out the win­dows. 
"I heard babies screaming, and their mother was holler­ing each one of their names, one after the other." said Betty Addington, 60, of Dallas, who was traveling with her 80-year-old mother to visit a sister in Los Angeles. 
One person was killed, 12 were seri­ously hurt and about 100 others suffered 
One person was killed and more than 100 were Injured when an Amtrak train, bound for Los Angeles and carrying 268 people, derailed In the Arizona desert. 
L"""""'.:..:..::....,......
:..:.:.;_:..:.:.=:..:==-=~==--=:::J 
less serious injuries, said Sgt. Tim Campbell, a sher­itrs spokesman. 
The dead man was identified as Mitchell Bates, 41, a sleep­ing-car attendant based in Los Angeles. 
"The last thing he said to me, before he went to bed last night, was 'See you tomorrow, 




El Paso 
Immigration Seminar ACommunity Without Borders 
Informational Meeting Wednesday, October 11. 

7:30 .. 8:00 
at the esc 

By LIZ SMITH 
News Writer 
For Notre Dame business students, there is a new means of gaining experience for the future through the organization, Students for Responsible Business (SRB). Since 1993, the SRB has spread to colleges nation­wide in order to facilitate an integration of social respon­sibilities and the business world. 
On Monday night, Notre Dame's chapter of the organi­zation launched itself with guest speaker Professor Oliver Williams. He expound­ed on the need for a "wider vision in order to see how the expectations of society might better be met." 
Through the role of the SRB, Notre Dame business students can become involved in community life, and learn how business can have a pro­found effect on the lives of the people. One of the main goals of the SRB is to encourage its members to strive for finan­cial success without losing honesty and humanity. This broader range of concerns will enhance the relationship between the business commu­nity and its shareholders. 
A chief project of the SRB is the Community Development Initiative (CDI). This project is designed to provide social responsibility workshops that will allow students to work through problems to find solutions. In the local chap­ter, the students will go into high schools to meet with cur­rent seniors in order to aid them in the organization of their first budgets. 
As Williams stated, "skills learned in class will be used to help others, and enhance Notre Dame's reputation in the community." Another effort put into action by the SRB will be teams of both graduate students and under­graduates sent into non-profit organizations to aid them in the restructuring of budgets, and helping them take advan­tage of the resources avail­able to them. 
This combination of gradu­ate students and undergradu­ates is a unique feature of the Notre Dame chapter of the SRB. Other institutions have designed the program to focus on the efforts of gradu­ate students. Thus, Notre Dame is heading the leading edge of this aspect of the SRB. 
In addition to being an in­valuable learning experience, the participation in the SRB will no doubt lead to an extra benefit when it comes to job interviews. Companies today are hiring those people who have experience in integrat­ing business and community concerns. The next scheduled meeting for the group is November 27, where the Vice President of McDonald's will be speaking on an incident that was successfully handled by the company. 
Have something to say? Use 

The Ob1erver 

classifieds. 
baby doll,"' said Helen Mar­tinez of Los Angeles, a waitress on the train. 
Phoenix hospitals reported treating at least 40 people, in­cluding one woman who was listed in critical condition. Among the hospitalized were a 3-month-old boy and a 31­year-old woman who was on her honeymoon. 
Deputies found a one-or two­page message signed "Sons of Gestapo" at the scene, the sheriff said. 
The note referred to the gov­ernmeJ1t sieges at Waco and Ruby Ridge, the FBI and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms. 
An electronic database search of U.S. newspapers big and small found no mention of a "Sons of Gestapo." 
Australia Austria Chile Egypt England France Greece India Ireland Italy Japan Jerusalem Mexico Spain 

EARN UICK CASH! 



EARN$$$ 
ND Catering Needs Help for the Quarterback Lunch. Friday, October 20 9:00AM-2:30PM 
Earn $5.95 per hour 
CHAT WITH RETURNEES OF NOTRE DAME  Plus a $10.00 bonus  
AND SAINT MARY'S PROGRAMS Tuesday October 10, 1995 6:30-9:30 p.m.  Please Call 631-5449  
LaFortune Ballroom  






VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Tuesday, October 10, 1995 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
John Lucas 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Elizabeth Regan Joseph Riley 
News Editor ················-··············David Tyler Advettising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ..................... .Jen Mackowiak Sporto Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor ............. -..... Patti Carson Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notte Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/5a.int Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor /Production 631-5303 Vie\\Tj)oint E-Mail Viewpoint.l@nd.edu 6eneral Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

words, her own generation) did from theirs. This basically translates into something like this: "Your parents didn't raise you properly, but Notre Dame will fix you up right." O'Hara proceeded to blame criticism of the University on the Observer. Very supportive. Very under­standing. 
Other Catholic universities have gay and lesbian students organizations on campus, so evidently the Catholic Church does not have any qualms about clubs such as GLND/SMC. 
Why, then, does Notre Dame refuse to recognize GLND/SMC on the grounds that it somehow contradicts the Catholic character of Notre Dame -could it be the University of Notre Dame, because it is Notre Dame, believes that its in­terpretation of Catholic doctrine is more "traditional" and more informed than that of other Catholic universities? 
Could it be that Notre Dame believes that to allow GLND/SMC on campus would somehow set a moral precedent which would undermine the Catholic tradition of Notre Dame and therefore of the Catholic religion? 
Could it be true that the University of Notre Dame has so much hubris, so 
~EUD... J~NNIE?

CCX+\R4N ... 
much prideful ·vanity that it believes itself to be the sole academic represen­tative of the Vatican which sets the moral standards by which all other uni­versities abide? 
When it comes down to it, the Catholic character of Notre Dame rests, as it al­ways has rested, in the hands and pens of its students. Notre Dame may believe it knows what the students need, but only the students themselves actually know what they need. Notre Dame should be a guiding force, not a govern­ing force. 
The majority of Notre Dame students appear to support GLND/SMC; make it more than apparent and voice your sup-. port. And if you fear that you cannot be a catholic and be homosexual or respect a homosexual as a human being, remember these important words of Christ: "Love thy Neighbor," and "Do not be Afraid." 
Matthew Apple is a creative writing graduate student at Notre Dame. He re­spects people who wear pastels even if he refuses to wear them himself. and can be contacted at matthew.t. apple.l @nd. edu. 

• 000NESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 

• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Learn by other's mistakes 
because you do not live long enough to make them all yourself." 
-Anonymous 
• AND IN THIS CORNER ••• 
It has been remarked to me that I do not respect the "Catholic character" of Notre Dame. This is not entirely true. I do not respect Notre Dame's definition of Catholic character. This is particular­ly evident in the administration's ho­mophobic treatment of the GLND/SMC controversy. 
Although this is my first semester here, and I therefore wasn't here when the controversy "erupted" (to abuse a phrase), it is already obvious to me that the majority of students and faculty at Notre Dame support the official recogni­tion of GLND/SMC 
forget the nature of the student-university relationship, the following will hopefully serve as a hum­ble reminder. As it is the duty of the student to study, to learn and to grow in personal character, and to support their fellow students, so is it the duty of the university to encourage, to protect and to support its students, to provide a healthy learning environment in which each community member can respect and learn from one another. 
At Notre Dame there currently exists a number of gay, lesbian and bisexual stu­dents who have formed an organization for emotional support for their fellow students, to reach out to the community, heterosexual or homosexual, on issues concerning human sexuality and the dllngers of HIV and AIDS, and to teach and to learn about their hopes and their fears, your hopes and fears. And the administration denies them. 
Students wonder why I write that the Notre Dame community lives within an intolerant and claustrophobic environ­ment, and yet a freshman at Notre Dame is so terrified of even a roommate let alone the entire "dorm family" discovering his or her sexual orientation that he or she is too scared and intimi­dated to sign a letter to the Observer. There is a need on this campus, a need which the University persists in ignor­ing, the need for freedom from fear and prejudice in a religious and academic community of one's peers. Notre Dame turns a blind eye and ignores its own students' needs. 
After the SRO screening of the cele­
brated film Roy 
Olympic star Greg Louganis was an ad in the Observer urg­ing homosexual students to attend meet­ings of Campus Ministry (whom I usually equate with Storm-troopers of Jehovah's Witnesses, though they're not as fanati­cal as Opus Dei's Imperial Guards). Presumably, Notre Dame seeks to offer heart-felt assistance to combat its illogi­cal view of the "psychological disease" of homosexuality. 
Notre Dame's problem is that it pays too much attention to the Pontiff's pontifications and not nearly enough to student concerns. The administration has overlooked the fact that it is the stu­dents who defme the character of a uni­versity and not the other way around. Notre Dame remains willfully ignorant that its students of the Nineties are a far cry from its students of the Fifties. 
The VP of Student Affairs, Patricia O'Hara, made this obvious in the Observer when she claimed that post­Vatican II children receive less moral guidance than their parents (in other as a student organi-Cohn/Jack Smith zation on campus. (this writer in From what I gather, attendance), I ex­Notre Dame's pected some sort of refusal 'to. allow Matt response -any sort GLND/SMC an of response-from stems from a con­the administration. cern for the cam­The only apparent



Apple
pus's aforemen­reaction to the film tioned character. and a subsequent Lest Notre Dame high-profile visit by 

~·------~------------------------------------------------------------------------~~-------~-------------~~----------------------.---------~ 


VIEWPOINT
Tuesday, October 10, 1995 page 9 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Message of Medjugorje graces ND 
Medjugorje article 
~ ' . 

Dear Editor: 
A few weekends ago incredible graces were poured 
out on the campus of Notre Dame with the presence of 
Sister Emmanuel. Sister Emmanuel traveled from 
Medjugorje to give a retreat and a talk which focused 
on Our Lady's messages that have been given to the 
visionaries at Medjugorje. The visionaries have seen 
Our Lady every day for the past fourteen years. 
Mary has appeared in Medjugorje under the title 
"Queen of Peace" . This peace is not what we think of 
as peace, but rather derives from the Jewish word 
shalom . Shalom means to be complete. Sister 
Emmanuel explained that Mary is coming to 
Medjugorje to make us complete. We are not complete 
when we are separated from God in any way. 
Sister Emmanuel wanted to clarify for those who 
heard her that there are false prophets in this age. 
There are people who claim to have visions or locu­
tions and spread false messages. These people can be 
recognized by their focus on future dates Sister 
Emmanuel told her listeners that Mary at Medjugorje 
does not focus on the future. Mary wants us to turn to 
God now. This is her urgent plea. She is Our Mother 
who cares deeply for each one of us and knows that 
we cannot have peace with out God so she is trying to 
lead us' back to him. 
Curiosity about the future is high among people. People fear some of the messengers of other appari­tions which speak of chastisements for the world. Sister Emmanuel has asked Marjana, one of the vision­aries, about this, because many young couples have wondered about whether or not to have children for fear of what may happen in the future. This is what Marjana said: "Having children is the most beautiful ,thing in the world. The more children you have, the better it will be. You should not be afraid to have chil­dren." Anyone fearing the future can be comforted by Mary's words, "Put God first in your life and you will 
be secure." 
But how can a person put God first in their life? Mary 
tells us to "live the messages that I have given to you." 
~'he wants us to live the messages because she knows 
the great power that Satan has in these times, leading 
many souls to hell for all eternity. Therefore, she calls 
us to love God and one another, to pray, especially 
family prayer, to reconcile ourselves with God through 
confession, to have peace and to renounce things 
which we have a dependence on that lead us from God 
and tempt us to sin, especially television. By praying, 
we can discern the plan that God has for our life. 
Mary has said that Medjugorje is the last call for con­
version. She has called for us to return to God before, 
particularly at Lourdes and Fatima. Mary has not left 
us alone in this endeavour for she, as Our Mother, is 
there for us to turn to in our times of need. She who 
was at the foot of the cross when Jesus died is with us 
every moment of our lives if we consecrate ourselves 
to her Immaculate Heart. 
Mary asked for the consecration to her Immaculate Heart at Fatima and is asking for it again at Medjugorje. People did not listen to Mary's request at Fatima for consecration, so as she said, World War II erupted and communism spread throughout the world. By consecration to Mary, a person gives her every­thing: body, merits, and desires. Mary is given every­thing to watch over and to purify And she says to "sur­render everything to me. I want to and offers you and through which he wants to destroy you. I desire to pro­tect you with my mantle." 

Sister Emmanuel noted something else about America: we are constantly bombarded with noise, whether it is from television or the radio or anything else. With all this noise, we withdraw in silence to pray with our hearts to God. She said that prayer leads to peace and love, and it heals the wounds that we have within us. If we cannot pray with our hearts in a true conversation with God, we cannot receive the gifts that God wants to give us. Prayer is not talking to a wall if we realize that God is truly present among us and that He desires to embrace us. We can see God's embrace when we open the eyes of our heart. 
We are being called to give ourselves completely to God. Sister Emmanuel has said that we are incomplete without God in our lives. She offered many stories of people who converted after watching people who were living the message of Medjugorje. After spending a weekend listening to her, it would be difficult to ignore the message of love that is being poured out from Medjugorje. 
DANNY EISENBACHER junior St. Edward's Hall 

needs clearing up of inaccuracies 
Dear Editor: 
When your reporter called for 1m interview late the other night, I thought he sounded sleepy. After reading his report on Medjugorje, I am sure 
~ of it. Never on earth did I tell him that the vision· aries come "from a Muslim family." (They are from six different families, all of them Catholic.) What I told your reporter was that, under the Communist regime of Yugoslavia, these young­sters (aged 11-17 when the apparitions began) had not been able to receive a Catholic education. Even their parents were so Intimidated that they told the children very little about the faith. (This I learned from one of the visionaries, Mirjana, just two weeks ago.) And yet In the hundreds of "mes­sages of Our Lady" transmitted by these young people over the past 14 years, nothing Inconsis­tent with Catholic teaching has been l'ound. Not even Notre Dame theology majors, if they were trying to fake an appaition. could match that record. I hope your reporter was sleeping also when he said that Dr. Cunningham cited "lack of eveidence as a reason for not accepting the apparitions." There is such an overwhelming abtmdance of evi­dence that even a speed reader like Cunningham would need quite a while to review it. May he not rather. have said that he just didn't have the time for this? But alas, I fear the articl~) was only too accurate in reporting on Professor Trembath, for the com­plaint that the messages of Medjugorje distract from the issues of social justice is heard very often. But C$11l you tell me anything more relevant to social justice than for someone in the midst of Bosnia for the past 14 years to be urging people towards peace and pointing out the indispensable conditions of peace? Moreover, the Catholic parish at Medjugorje has been providing aid and shelter for war refugess, Muslim and Christian alike, helped in part by a planeload of clothing, medicine and medical equipment, as well as con· siderable sums of money, sent by the Medjugorje group in South Bend. How many of those who talk about sot:iaJ justice have made as real a con· tribution as that? 
EDWARD O'CONNOR, C.S.c. Emcrinu Faculty Department ofTheology 

• MAY THE fORCE BE WITH You 


Saint Mary's mascot 'Belles' deemed inappropriate 
S
aint Mary's College promotes its. stu­dents as women who make a dtffer­ence in the world, women who are lead­ers, women who express themselves assertively. But we belittle ourselves with a mascot like the "Belles." I, like many other women at Saint Mary's, am confused by this discrepancy. 
One of the problems with our mascot, the "Belles," is what 
constitutes as a "belle." Most Saint "Belles" is intru­Mary's students sively bothersome. start out believing I'll be the first to that it is meant to admit that I would
Kara 

represent bells, never mind being those that ring. referred to as Then come to find beautiful, but that
Pavlik out that is not the is not my point. I do college's intended not want to pro­meaning. The extra mote aesthetic "E" is there for a beauty over the purpose. The second prospect suggests 

No, a belle is not the right image for our school. A belle is a flame, a flirt or the constant center of attention. The term belle is synonymous with meanings such as beauty contest winner, fetcher, bunny and best of all -the face that launched a thousand ships. A belle, as our mascot, is a cute reminder of an issue that for most women is not cute at all. 
This is why the 

the image of the belle, as sunk into American culture, as a woman in a long white dress, sipping tea and playing cro­quet when not daunting over men. 
,It seems improbable that Saint Mary's mascot committee in the fall of '77 de­liberately decided on a mascot that would portray women as a belle. Belles do not represent a sport. They are, on the whole, as athletic as a rock. They never get dirty, run after a football or sweat. Sipping tea in the comfort of a garden, they do not practice soccer in the rain. And heaven forbid if they jump. 
!
believe that a belle as our mascot haunts the legacy of Saint Mary's women; women, who for over 150 years , have been ahead of the times. Women such as Mother Angela and Sister Madeleva, just to name a few. 
Mother Angela was renown for having set the tone for generation after genera­tion of young women. Angela's life con­sisted of charitable acts that involved educating underprivileged children and raising funds for Irish famine victims. Ironically, Angela was hailed as "any­thing but a stereotype of the nineteenth-century belle." 

And Sister Madeleva, after graduating in 1909, was considered by William But­ler Yeats to be "one of the few American poets capable of passion." She also stud­ied at Oxford University in England where C.S. Lewis was so impressed with her literature that she became the first woman selected to work along side him. 
N
o one pretends these women embody the characteristics stereo­typical of a belle. But current Saint Mary's students do not embody charac­teristics stereotypical of belles either. So why does our mascot stay? Apparently the answer is tradition. 
The mascot has unofficially been around since 1921, when the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame college club performed a version of "The Belles of Saint Mary's." Then the film version, starring Bing Crosby, only encouraged the name. Yet it is interesting -even shocking -to learn that the "Belles;, became our official mascot in the late '70s when the women's movement was at its peak. 
Just last year, senior Mara Bagley, conducted a survey of Saint Mary's women to see if they were in support of the mascot. Out of 250 women randomly surveyed, 20 percent did not want a change, 15 percent were indifferent and 65 percent were unhappy with the mas­cot. 
According to Begley, women who were unhappy with the mascot wrote com­ments such as the "mascot portrayed Saint Mary's women as wimpy, ditsy and fragile." One Saint Mary's athlete said, "I don't understand how we go into games with that name. We should have 
E
a mascot that refers to us a modest, strong, dignified and powerful." ven though the majority of students appear to want a change, nothing has been done to switch our mascot. So, Saint Mary's women, the challenge comes to you. The mascots that have been suggested to replace the "Belles" in the past seem hopelessly dull, like the Saints, ~he Crusaders or the Celtics. Sug­gestions like "The Flying Nuns" or "The Kalbys" after Sister Elena's dog (since he runs around campus and plays the part anyway) or "The Hickeys" (after our president, of course) are much more creative, but exceed my personal limits of satire. 
My choice would be to silence the belle, and get a more representative mascot for the school. Maybe we should take the example of the artist formally known as Prince and just go by the woman's symbol. Anything but the "Belles" which promotes a stereotype of Saint Mary's that many of us want to break. 
Mara Begley contributed to this arti­
cle. 
Kara Pavlik is a senior at Saint Mary's. She can be reached via e-mail at pavl7087@jade.saintmarys.edu 


:ACCENT 

those listening was an experience inca­can meet and talk to other people. pable of being forgotten. Third, in a radjo station vehicle, one can
Michael Flood, a radio 

drive wherever they please, from some­After working for over a year on our one's front lawn to a crowded socialpersonality since the community's AM station, I began work­event. Incidentally, the Nebraska State ing at the sister station, KEXL-FM, Great Patrol will never pull you over...bad 
age of 15, has worked Hits 106. This station features an adult press. contemporary and classic rock format. I at more than four began on the ever-famous overnight ne of the biggest advantages in small shift. ..taking requests from drunken Omarket radio is the variety of oppor­
Midwestern stations Cornhuskers who wanted someone to tunity. News broadcasting was one of "keep them company" or "tuck them in" my favorite areas of work. Covering a at 3:30 a.m ..... finding myself broadcast-murder arraignment in Pierce County or
R
adio. The seventy-five ::::==::ing at 4 a.m. and wondering if reporting live from a farmhouse 
year-old tradition famous anybody was even listening. 

stand off with three drunk \
for EBS tests and four-teenagers demanding a heli­

minute commercial breaks. After months in this position, my program director invited me in copter and a carton of cigarettes, 

While that cheesy voice and to the daylight hours. It was the. this part of the job was Skywatch weather report might esteemed oldies show, weekdays 
never boring. ~ 
be routine by now, the other at noon. Playing music that I end of the microphone never was never around to listen to in Working the newsroom ceases to remain exciting. the first place and pretending I meant reading Associated 
knew everything about it was Press and local copy for 
At the age of 15, I was intro-MI"ke Flood I t · L" t ld

duced to small market radio in a ways a np. IS eners wou hourly newscasts and -----­
WVFI-FM call in for contests and ask me monitoring local law 
my hometown of Norfolk, h · 66 h" h 

enforcement and fire/rescue commu­Nebraska. WJAG-AM is one of Station Manager w ere I was m 19 , to w tc I 
-....-;:------would always respond, nication. Rushing to the scene of a
the oldest stations in America. Providing . hhhh h I · .. 

fatality was always an ugly feel-
farm market and agricultural informa-'U ..u ..s eepmg. 

ing, but no one ever think:?
tion for over seventy years, Country 78 

What would radio be without about my part of the job or was quite an. experience for a high 
perks...better known as promotions? that of the rescue person-school freshman. Every fifteen minutes I During the summer months, almost nel when they hear it oil
learned how to read corn and bean 

every day the stations would send me the news the next morn­
price quotes; at 1:15 p.m., we 
out on location to perform tasks ranging ing.
announced area funerals; and at 5:25 
from running pool parties to cleaning
p.m. it was the five minute evening people's houses, dressing as Santa, and My Nebraska experiencesweather report, complete with the day's 

/
even driving "Norfolk's Main" for the were invaluable as I made high temperature. Who could forget an highly visible Cruise Night. my way to South Bend as aafternoon Nebraska tornado? As a 17­
freshman. Employed atyear-old announcer, informing thou­
Why would one enjoy this? First of all, WGTC, the New Cat Country sands of listeners was beyond nerve­
announcers see more green stuff every 102 since 1993, I have alsoracking. Watching trees rip from the trip out of the studio. Secondly, while had the oppqrtunity to learnground and dumpsters slide into parked you talk into the microphone, you get to about a mid-market station. 
cars while remaining a calm friend to 

see more than just a microphone ... you While the stations are very 

As WSND's publicity and Nocturne Director, Kate Hillman has been involved with both the best and worst of the alternative music scene 
N
o one ever tells you how to be a 
once the ball got might seem, this is also the most tedious music director. Or at least, no one rolling-not only at and sometimes even the most unenjoy­
ever told me. This made for plenty the amount of work able part of the job. When you're listen­of surprises as I assumed my newly involved, but at the ing to upwards of a hundred discs, you appointed position as Nocturne Director quirkiness of the hear a lot of crap, and when you do it all for WSND-FM last April. Going on the industry I was soon in one sitting, that can get pretty assumption that I would merely have to to deal with. painful. make sure every shift 
As music director But of course the job has more than its 
was covered Kate Hillman for Nocturne WSND-FM Nightflight, my first Publicity Director responsibility is to 

-------make sure every.shift is covered either by the scheduled or a substituting announcer, and to regulate '}have had conversations 
the shows-listening for NFA's, rotation 

about astrology, Sesame 
selections, and overall style. From here I compile our Top 30 every week to report Street characters, the benefits to the College Monthly Journal~ the of learning to swim, the color bible of college music. I compare what 
of underwear, euthanasia, and 
we are playing not only to the CMJ and commercial modern rock stations, but to tormented relationships.' other college campus stations all around the nation. 
Kate Hillman 
Spending a minimum of 12-14 hours a week up in the station, I use the majori­ty of this time sifting through the week's mail and reviewing all the new discs share of perks. I receive free additional received. This can be as few as 30, or as copies of most of the discs we receive, many as 150. 1listen to every one, writ­and if I need any more, they're just a ing a brief d(lscription for my DJ's and phone call away. Free t-shirts. stickers choosing which ones go in rotation, and and pens are also sent to me weekly, as which ones do not. Ridiculous as this well as some other interesting items. I 
....___________________________________ --­

different, the listeners are remarkably similar. Everyone wants to hear their song next and nobody is ever happy when they aren't lucky caller number 
a,~wen. 
Mike Flood is a junior living in Zahm Hall. He currently serves as WVFI-AM Station Manager. 
/ 
have opened packages to find an alliga­tor squirt gun, a growing brain Uust place in water) and homemade cookies from the mother of a guitarist in an Up­and-coming band. 
B
ut things get even stranger. Every Friday, I spend two to four hours on the phone talking with record and pro­motion representatives from every label imaginable. And trust me, these are not normal people. Interspersed between letting them know how their bands are doing and whether or not they are charting at our station, I have had con­versations about astrology, Sesame Street characters, the benefits of learn­ing to swim, the color of underwear, euthanasia, and tormented relation­ships. 
I have became close friends with a cou­ple of promoters, and even had a brief romantic stint with a drummer in a band I met through the station. You certainly can't be serious or an introvert and expect to survive, because everyone you deal with is a little left of center. But then again, a little neurosis never hurt anyone. 
Kate Hillman. who majors in Theater and English, is a junior living in Siegfried. 

Tuesday, October 10, 1995 . page II




ACCENT 

By DAN JUKIC 
Accent Writer 
Q
uick quiz; yell out if you know the answer. Ilow many radio stations are there on cam­pus? Think hard now. If you answered and you thought of the much-publicized WVFI-AM, you're probably in the majority. If you answered "two" and thought of WVFI along with another. less well-known station, you're definitely in the minority. Or you just work for WSND. 
And that's because there really are two radio stations on campus. And, believe it or not, one is already FM. Namely, WSND 88.9 FM. Surprised? Don't be. WSND has been around for a long time; you just didn't know about them, and you're not the only one. 
WSND is a fine-arts classical radio station, serving the Notre Dame/St. Mary's community and the South Bend/Mishawaka area in general. WSND broadcasts their FM signal from their perch in the tower of O'Shaughnessy (didn't you always wonder what was behind that clock?), unlike the truly campus-only AM station WVFI, which can be heard only, well, on campus. In fact. WSND draws a large part of its listenership from the South Bend/Mishawaka area, and from even further reaches of Indiana and Michigan. WSND's signal reaches 30-35 miles on average, reaching as far as Elkha.rt in the east and Laporte in the west. At night, or with favorable wnather conditions, that range can almost dou­ble. 
So WSND is by no means limited to campus lis­teners only, though it is run predominantly by campus dwellers. Of the staff consisting of roughly 70 members, eighty percent are stu­dents. This eighty percent includes an executive board made up entirely of students who hold the highest positions of leadership at the station and who direct its daily operation. The remaining twenty percent of non-student staff is made up of local citizens, professors and clergy who have an interest in radio that goes beyond just listening. All members are volunteers during the school year. but are paid during Christmas break and during the summer. The station is university­funded during the school year, but the station must organize fund-raisers to cover its expenses during the summer and Christmas break. 
WSND features predominantly fine arts and classical music, but is not limited to those areas. The station music library is evidence of its diver­sity, with CDs and LPs of all kinds filling four rooms. Beginning at 7 a.m. every day, the sta­tion begins its broadcast with classical music, which continues all day, interspersed with news breaks updating the day's events. At 6 p.m. the schedule features the MacNeil-Lehrer news hour, before beginning its series of specialty shows. These shows air between 7 and 10 p.m. and form the basis of the station's emphasis on diversity, focusing on a wide variety of music. Shows range from jazz and blues, to big band and Broadway show tunes, to traditional Celtic music. 
WSND winds up its broadcasts with the pro­gressive Nocturne Nightflight from midnight to 2 
a.m. which features the best of college radio today, based on a national college music journal. As to its overall purpose, WSND station manager Charlie Clarke says, "Our mission is: one, to pro­vide an educational and work experience for stu­dents interested in music and radio; and, two, to provide an outlet in the South Bend area and campus community for the widest variety of music possible." 
Nocturne Nightflight, more commonly known as just "Nocturne," is the biggest draw for stu­dent listeners. Featuring the cream of today's college music, you can hear everything from the well-known alternative artists like Foo Fighters and Morrisey to an assortment of up-and-coming indie bands. Publicity/Nocturne director Kate Hillman says of the show, "Nocturne features an eclectic array of college radio that caters to just about every musical taste on or off campus." Nocturne is hosted by pairs of DJ's each night of the week, and each pair brings something new to the show while remaining true to the Nocturne sound. This daily change is a definite strength of Nocturne according to Hillman. "Our asset is all of our DJ's have their own tastes and style, and even if you have a focused musical taste you're bound to find a day or show that caters to your taste," she says. 
So though no two nights will ever be the same, all nights share the distinctive sound Nocturne creates by mixing the new bands and the estab­lished popular ones. Students too can have a say about what Nocturne plays, since requests are always accepted. And that element of change, with so many different bands being played. is another strength of the show. Says Hillman, "As college students, it's not that easy to stay abreast of the music scene-especially since in South Bend we don't have a modern rock station. Nocturne is the way to hear your old favorites and new stuff breaking through." 
So now you know about WSND. But why should you listen? There are many different options offered by the diverse programming of the station, and none of the annoying song repe­tition and DJ-banter of commercial radio. Clarke says, "We are the one station that tries to pro­vide everything in one place on the radio dial." And Hillman reiterates, "There's classical music to study to, news, specialty shows and Nocturne. We cover just about every area of radio and if you don't take advantage of that, it's rather trag­ic." 
They do indeed seem to cover everything. Relaxing classical music, current news breaks, a variety of specialty shows and Nocturne's unique mix of modern rock: WSND 88.9 FM seems to have something for everyone. The only thing left is to judge for yourself. 

• MEDICAL MINUTE 
You Can Call Me Pal 
By JOHN GALVIN 
Accent Medical Correspondent 
One of the most challenging things about being in college is learning to live in close proximity with people whose experi­ences and expectations differ from your own. While at Notre Dame, you will come to know people with varying degrees of intimacy, including acquaintances or classmates, roommates, friends; or significant others. Meeting and becoming close to these people can be one of your greatest pleasures, yet it can also become cause for concern when the people you care about seem to be in emotional pain. 
Just like you, every other student came to school with some ability to balance a myriad of activities, including academics, relationships, leisure needs, athletics, and social activities. To juggle all these responsibilities and excel at many of them, you probably called upon well-developed coping strategies. Unfortunately, sometimes students' coping strategies can be overwhelmed by the complexity of a university community and the varying demands placed upon them. You may occa­sionally feel that someone whom you care about needs help with a personal problem or concern. 
What are the indications that someone's natural coping 
mechanisms are not working? 
It is natural to have some hesitation about approaching a friend who seems in need, but certain behavioral signs usually indicate that individuals are feeling stressed and unable to cope in their usual healthy manner. Signs that someone may need help include: 
•Brings pillow and blanket to the library. 
(Withdrawal from others, increased isolation which is noticeably different from their previous level of interaction). 
•Doubles weight in one week. 
(Decline in general appearance, including grooming. major gains or losses in weight, etc.) 
•Prefers Solitaire over Sega. 
(Noticeable loss of interest in formerly enjoyable activities like sports, socializing, or just "hanging out") 
•Sleeps between naps. 
(Consistent reports of feeling fatigued or run-down. frequent sickness, or sleeping more erratically than usual). 
•Sneaks flask into dining hall. 
(Excessive alcohol/drug use, or use that exceeds the individ­ual's typical pattern of consumption). 
•Reports you to NDPD Blue...for stealing pencil. 
(Makes irrational presumptions, i.e.-accusing or scape­goating personal concerns onto innocent friend). 
•Cries over spilled milk. 
(Changes in pattern of mood such as increased irritability or anxiousness). 
How can a friend in need best be approached? 
If you are having difficulty assessing the· degree of a friend's distress. campus coun~:>eling services has regularly scheduled consultation hours available for the purpose of discussing and planning interventions. Once you have identified that a friend is experiencing some difficulty, you may want to spend some time figuring out when and how you can best approach that person. 
First, try to pick an appropriate time and place to talk with him/her. It is usually easier to discuss a concern with someone before a crisis. Find a quiet place where you will have the time for a full discussion. Initiate the discussion at a time when both of you are clear-headed and substance-free. 
What should you focus on? 
By far the most important message you should try to com­municate when approaching a friend is one of cart~ and con­cern for him/her. If you are able to do this, then the rest of the interaction will be much easier, including any confrontation that needs to occur. Also of primary importance is your will­ingness to listen attentively without being judgmental. Your aim is not to solve the problem. but rather to help the individ­ua.l get any help that he/she needs. However tempting it may be to "fix something" for someone. particularly if the concern appears similar to something you have managed to negotiate successfully in the past. remember that your solution may not be the best course for another person. 
Helping your friend to generate options is also useful, since most people under stress have a tendency to get "stuck" and see only one point of view. Knowing about and assisting your friend in making contact with appropriate resources on cam­pus should be a goal. If someone feels reluctant about seeking out one of the on-campus resources, you may want to consid­er accompanying him/her to the initial appointment. This step will emphasize that you care enough to see he/she gets the needed help. Also, it shows that you have limitations in what you can do for him/her. 
Remember-a lack of communication can lead to a restrain­ing relationship. 
John Galvin is a Pre·Med/Bnglish mqjor. He can be reached for questions and comments at: John.P.Galvin.3@nd.edu 
-4~.­

-
------------~~----------------------------------------------------------------------, 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, October 10, 1995 
•NBA 

Top pick Smith impresses early in Golden State camp 
By ROB GLOSTER 
Msociated Ptcls 
SAN LUIS OBISPO, Calif. 
In his first workout with the Golden State Warriors, Joe Smith was ordered to the foul line by coach Rick Adelman. 
The NBA's top draft pick knew his teammates would 
have to run a lap for every free throw he missed, and they would be done for the day if he could hit his foul shots. 
"I wasn't nervous at all," said Smith, who swished his two free throws. "When he picked me, I looked around and asked everyone if they were ready to go home." 

Such talk from a rookie usu­ally smacks of bravado. But with Smith, it's all matter-of­fact with little hint of ego. 
Smith is no typical No. 1 draft pick. He will live with his moth­er during his first season, and has no intention of being the focus of attention on the Warriors. 
Unlike Chris Webber, the No. 1 draft pick two years earlier who left Golden State after a public feud that led to the res­ignation of coach Don Nelson, the Warriors are thrilled by Smith's workmanlike attitude. 
"They have great players here, and there's no way I can come in and try to take the spotlight," Smith said. "They're going to need me to rebound and block shots, stuff like that." 
The Warriors also will be counting on the 6-foot-10, 225­pound forward to score a few points. They are trying to have him play farther from the bas­ket and get comfortable taking short jumpers. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The ,charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Classifieds 

BABYSITTER NEEDED IN OUR  I NEED TIXS TO ALL HOME  Need 3 USC GA's and 1 BC Stud.  Selling your BC ticket??  0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0  
NOTICES  HOME FOR SMALL CHILD A COUPLE OF AFTERNOONS A  GAMES.272-6306  Call Tom at x1899.  Call Kelly @ 277-9695  QUALITY COPIES, QUICKL Y!!l THE COPY SHOP  
WEEK. WALKING DISTANCE  NEED TICKETS  WE HAVE 2 USC STUD TIXII  Need USC tickets for Texas parents  LaFortune Student Center  
LITTLE FLOWER HOME DAY­ FROM CAMPUS. 232-2595  2 USC and 2 NAVY G.A.'S  BEST OFFER BY MIDNIGHT  coming to ND.  Phone 631-COPY  
CARE. LOVING, STIMULATIVE  Call Sean x2153  WED.  Jeanne x4341  0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0  
ENVIRONMENT. MOTHER, EDU­CATOR. SPECIAL DISCOUNTS.  FOR RENT  Need 4 USC GAs & 2 BC GAs.  CALLX4550  Need many tickets for USC  Have you turned  
LICENSED. 284-0708.  Please call Cheryl x4883  I need tickets to USC, BC, and  Please call Travis at X2091.  in your  
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR ND  Navy. Please call Bryan.  LONDON PROGRAM  
ILOST&FOUNDI  232-2595  Wanted: 4 tickets together -any home game  272-4249  I I NEED USC TICKETS I student tickets or GA's  APPLICATION???  
THAT PRETTY PLACE. Bed and  Wanted: 2 tickets ND-USC  need studenttix for USC, 4-3504  Call Kerri 273-3851  HEY YOU! Buy my USC ticket  
BIG REWARD for info. leading to  Breakfast Inn has space available  Call 1-800-922-BEAR day  before O.J. does. Call1-4872.  
the return of bike "taken" Oct. 2 behind Cav. hall: 'skY-blue, schwinn  for football wknds. 5 rooms with pri­vate baths. Located in Middlebury,  1-502-354-8826 collect in evening  Need NAVY GA's Chris x4010  need USC stud. tixl kim @ 273-9840  You've never heard of the  
10 spd., 70's model, big sentimen­ 30 miles from campus. 1-800-418­ NEED B.C. Ticket -G.A. or S.A.  I HAVE 2 50YRD LN BC TIX GA  Millennium Falcon?  
tal value -call 4-3504  9487  Please call Anne 634-3445.  and 4 GA NAVY TIX. I NEED 4  NEED ND-USC TICKETS  Should I have?  
USC TIX STD/GA. call Davex21 00  CALL BILL 233-5719  It's the ship that made the Kessel  
WANTED  One bedroom in house. Utilities and laundry facilities, arid kitchen privi­ NEED 3 NAVY G.A.'S. HAVE TWO STUD. USC TIX TO TRADE  Not coming back from break?  run in less than twelve parsecs! I've outrun Imperial starships, not  
leges. Close to campus. $250/mo.  OR UPGRADE. CALL NICOLE  I need 4 USC STUD TIX  You like PHISH?  the local bulk-cruisers, mind you.  
RIDERS WANTED NY/NJ to ND  Female preferred. Call Paul 232­ X4905  Call Frank -3389  Tix for the concert in K-Zoo  I'm talking about the big Corallian  
2794.  (that's Kalamazoo, Ml) for sale.  ships now. She's fast enough for  
I am flying home and buying a car,  HELPINeed USC tickets, will pay  Need 1-2 USC GA's  The show is OCT. 27.  you, old man. What's the cargo?  
but if I drive it back alone I think I  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE  lots,call Michelle,634-2497  x1426  Tix are $25 each (five are avail­ Only passengers. Myself, the boy,  
will probably crash it. No gas $  HOME FOR  able).  two droids, and no question asked.  
nee., but I need you to spell me at  ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE  **********PLEASE HELP!***********  Three cute girls need tickets for the  Call AMY at 273-2864.  What is it? Some kind of local trou­ 
the wheel. Smokers welcome.  TO CAMPUS.  *NEED 1 NAVY GAl*  Army Game at Giants Stadium.  ~  ble?  
Call Josh@ 277-9071  CALL 272-6194 AM OR 232-9620  *CALL COLLEEN AT X2191*  Please help them ...Krista 634-0933  Let's just say we'd like to avoid any  
PM  2 BC GA's  Imperial entanglements.  
TWO GUYS NEED RIDE TO  & ASK FOR SANDY.  NEED 4 USC GAs Katie 4015  I need a ticket to PHISH,  234-7667  Well, that's the trick, isn't it?  
BOSTON AREA (and back) over  Kalamazoo, 10-27, call2074  lv. name, tel.#, & offer  
break. Desperately. Will split gas/tolls/etc. Call Tom x1173 or  FOR SALE  Need 4 USC GAs Call Chad at X3384  I HAVE USC STUD TIX 4 SALE  Needed: 2 USC studenttix. Call  HELP! I need a ride to North NJ for Oct  
Marty x3419  1-6696  Jason at x-1079.  break.Will pay $$$  
Yamaha 400 Speciaiii,MINT-$650,  NEED BCTKT  Call Lara x2550  
Ride ­Boston to South Bend for  RCA 20" Colortrack-$175, Prince  WILL TRADE USC TKT  I NEED BC TICKETS -STUDENT  TIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIX  
desperate Law Student, 10/21 or  Synergy Tennis Raquet-$80,  OR PAY$$$  OR GAlli! PLEASE call Megan at  needed: 1 BC ticket (stu or GA)  NEED A RIDE TO IOWA? I'm leav­ 
10/22. Call Jay at 634-4219.  Kickboxing/Sparring gear-$80.  CALL KELLI X4044  x4268  call dan at 273-6183 if you can help  ing for Iowa City on Thurs. around 8  
234-1840.  out. thanx.  pm and can take riders.  
NEED EXTRA MONEY?  need USC tix, stud or GA. Will PAY  SELLING USC GA TWO $200 OBO  TIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIX  Call Molly @ x3490  
HAVE A GOOD PHONE VOICE & 6-8 HRS/WK TO MAKE CALLS  For Sale: 1989 Acura Integra LS  $or TRADE for NAVY GA"S. call3676  UNTIL OCT. 12 271-19-98  I NEED USC TIX  ......................-------... ---------.. --­ 
ABOUT MY PRODUCT?  Air Cond., Sunroof, AMI FM Tape,  2 Navy GA's for 2 BC GA's  KEVIN @ 234-2952  ND/SMC BALLROOM DANCE  
THEN CALL JOHN DAVENPORT  Good Condition. $5,800 neg.  USC GA's  This Week:  
2tl9-1993, Al.l,STA l:E ..  Call Betsy at 4-3229.  Best offer x2450  2 USC STUD TIX, best offer.  HELP! NEED 2 NAVY GA'S FOR  REVIEW AND OPEN DANCE  
FLEX HAS.  John 273-9249  VISITING PARENTS. CALL 4­ 6:30 PM tonight at 301 Rockne  
START AT $12/HR.  I NEED BC & USC GA'S  0714.  * professional instruction  
OFFICE NEAR CAMPUS  1994 Suzuki Swift GA, 3 DR,  CALL 288-2877  Need USC tickets (4)  * only $3/lesson or $25/semester  
NEED ride from NASHVILLE to  Stick,Biue,18,000 Miles,$ 6,700 Call alter 3:30, 277-8115  Wanted: 5 tickets to the Navy  call #4814-Erica  NEED LOTS OF USC TIX. WILL PAY$$. PLEASE CALL  Everyone is welcome! •-.-*-.-*-.-*-*-.-*-*-*-.-.-.-.-* -·-*-.-.-*  
N.D. on Oct. 27. Will help drive/gas.  game. Either GA's or Students. Am  * Have 2 BC GAs to TRADE for 2  SARAH-X2865  
call Kurt 4-0994. ASAP!  Chest of drawers.Appr. 60"x36"x  willling to pay $$$$. Call Brian at  USC GAs. Colin x-1389  I'm really getting bored.  
15".Lots of drawers.$20.277-2560.  x3061.  Help, I need 2 married st. or st. tix  Amuse me, someone. Please.  
Wanted!  Dad & Co. Coming for USC...  for the BC game. $$  Today. 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. on WVFI.  
Individuals, Student Organizations  DOC MARTIN'S boots, w/ orig. box.  Need oneGA for Boston College.  Need tickets-PLEASE HELP!!  Call Matt X-1307  (That's 640 AM to you.)  
to Promote  Never worn (retail $90). Will sell for  Willing to pay $$$$$$. Call Julie at  GAs or Student.  Make a request. 631-6400.  
SPRING BREAK Earn MONEY and  $80obo. Ca11Ed,4-2113  284-5170.  Rob2734674  Have 1 USC tix for sale! Please  I'm waiting.  
FREE TRIPS  call 4-3306, ask for Mark  (Come back M.DI It's so lonely!)  
CALL INTER-CAMPUS PRO­ !@#$#"%*"&%#@ @#$$%  Need ARMY tixll Karen x3723  I HAVE 2 GA'S FOR USC  
GRAMS  If you like BASS, you'll like this  CALL TOM@273-9249  NEED USC GA'S  I need a ride  
http://www.icpt.com  150 watt 15"  NEED USC AND BC TIX  KATIE X1093  2 NJ 4 break ....  
•  1-800-327-6013  SUBWOOFER Ca114-1668  STUDA~lDGA CALL MEG X4544  I NEED GA'S MEGAN X3890  Need 2 USC tix. std or GA Call  can u help? please call Kristen x2342  
Seeking in home child care for an  #@ $%&~~*(()"&"%#$#$  REMEMBER THE GAME IS  Rob x1581.  
adorable baby. 1-4 days/wk  Buy my SC ticket!  DURING FALL BREAK.  601 Flanner "Oh look a goldfish"  
M-Th. 631-6561.  Spring Break Bahamas Party  Taking best offer.  CALL DOUG@X-3686  $  
Cruise! Early Specials! 7 Days  Melx1286  WILL PAY$$  $1 Need USC tix  Thank you St.Jude for prayers  
HELP WANTED  $2791 Includes 15 Meals & 6  -Bryan x1919  answered.  
1 0-30 hrs./llex. sched.  Parties! Great Beaches/Nightlife!  I'M DESPERATE for your BC GA's  Need 1 USC Ticket Student or  $  
All majors/schol. avail.  Prices Increase 11/21 & 12/151  Please call ALISA 271-8346  GA. Call Anne x4896.  $  Anyone studied abroad not through  
$10.25 I 282-2357  Spring Break Travel 1-800-678­ ND, call Aaron@ 219-586-3365, I  
6386  Need 2GAs4  $$ PLEASE HELP$$  Need USC GA's-Jeff x1828  have ?'s  
HELP WANTED addressing  USC Call x2875  '94 ND ALUM NEEDS  
envelopes. Work at your residence  Spring Break! Panama City! Early  BC & USC STUD OR GA TIX  Need USC tickets.  2 plane tickets to Minneapolis for  
in your spare time. $250+/week  Specials! 8 Days Oceanview Room  CALL 516-326-2659  Call Joe at X1610.  fall break. $65/ea OBO Call with  
possible! (310)804-5587 24 hrs.  With Kitchen $1291 Walk To Best  NEED NAVY TIXI  an offer-Kevin x0584  
Bars! Key West $2591 Cocoa Beach  AMY 616-473-2636  I need USC Tickets:  
Part-time writer/editor with 2 kids  Hilton $1691 Prices Increase 11/2.1  I HAVE 4 NAVY GA'S AND I AM  Call Joe at X1846.  ANNA LOU,  
(ages: 3,8) needs creative, ener­ & 12/15! 1-800-678-6386  Desperately need 4 Navy GA'slll  LOOKING FOR USC GA'S OR  Will YOU marry melll  
getic, child-care person who's good  If I don't get them, my family won't  USC STUDENT TICKETS.  WILL TRADE 2 BC GA'S FOR 2  you know who  
with kids. Access to car needed. 5­ Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break  pay for the operation to save my  If you have USC tix, call  USC GA'S CALL (412)655-2565  
8 hrs/week, late afternoons.  Specials! 111% Lowest Price  life. Call Mark at x1590.  Tom atx3893  Anne,  
$5.50/hr. 273-1702 alter 5  Guarantee! 7 Nights Air From South  For my dad's 50th birthday I need  I miss you.  
Bend & Hotel From $419! Book  TRADE: have 2 BC GA, I need 2  at least one USC GA ticket. I am  M.W.  
Desperately seeking a ride to  Early! Save $100 On Food/Drinks!  USC GA justin 233-1259  willing to pay big money. Call me  
D.C. area for break. Will pay for  Spring Break Travel1-800-678­ HELP! HELP! HELP! HELP!  Dan at x3543  Two for two on the year. I'm  
gas. Call x0607, ask for David.  6386  Need 2 USC tix­ impressed. Where will the tattoo be  
Car CD Player Jim @ 234 0985  TICKETS  Have 2 BC or 2 Navy GAs to trade Also have $$$$ Call Sara x4096  I NEED USC AND BC TIX as many as possible, students or GAs  PERSONAL  shown next? Some advice, be careful what you talk about in front of your date next time. It's so nice  
LosAngeles!  please call NORM @ 232-2955  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  to remember what you do, huh?  
Need someone to drive a '91  A DEVOTED IRISH FAN NEEDS  Need USC tickets (GA and stud)  Thanks for your Support!  LaFortune Student Center  
Camry 6 cyl. to LosAngeles.  GA'S TO ANY/ALL  SO I CAN PAY OFF DEBT -RIDE  ********************•*········  We're open for your convenience ill  Brian, I heard you made some peo­ 
Arrive there anytime before Nov.  HOME/AWAY GAMES.  BACK. If you can help call Keith at  Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight  ple leave the dance early. Next  
3rd. (219) 233-3711.  219-232-0061,24 HAS.  3482.  B.C. TICKETS WANTED. GA  Fri.: 7:30am -7:00pm  time you pick a fight, watch out for  
or student. CAtL alter 5 p.m.  Sat.: Noon -6:00pm  those gullible ones. Now we know  
Need ride to Boston/Providence  NEED NO-USC GA TIX. CALL JOE  277-4793. GO IRISH.  Sun.: Noon -Midnight  that balloons do the trick for keep­ 
Area for fall break. Will pay for  TICKET-MART, INC.  @ 287-4561 BEFORE 10 PM.  (closed home football Saturdays)  ing up with people. Hope you like  
gas. Good company. 4-3306  WANTED  ND ALUM NEEDS 2 OR 4 TICK­ your new roommate!  
ask for Mark  GA'S FOR ANY/ALL  I NEED TWO NAVY GA'S AND 2-5  ETS TO BC GAME OCT. 28. CALL  Calif. actress-writer wile & photog­ 
HOME/AWAY ND GAMES.  BC GA'S OR STUD TIX. PLEASE  COLLECT (810)269-9022 OR JEN­ rapher husband wish to adopt new­ We miss you McGrath. The pret­ 
ARIST NEEDED  BUY*SELL *TRADE  CALLJENAT X1124  NYMIKE@ AOL.COM  born. Will provide love, nurturing  zles don't taste the same without  
Interested in painting a portrait  (219) 232-0058-24 HAS.  environ., educ., financial security.  you. Nor do the hot tamales. Come  
based from a picture? I need  ND ALUMNI NEEDS BC GA'SI  HELP! HELP! HELP! Alumnus des­ Hollywood Hills home has large  back soon.  
someone immediately! It's for a  Need 2 USC GA's  CALL JOE AT 708-470-6356.  perately needs 5 USC tix. Please  back yard and loving dog. Call  
wedding gilt.  Will Pay For Them  call 215-988-1788 day, or 215-836­ 818/241-5535 collect. Legal &  Wednesday. Dazed and Confuzed.  
Call Laura at 273-2768  Call Rusty x-0993  need student B.C. ticket. X2074  9150 home.  Confidential.  Thursday. Houston. Thank God.  

Tuesday, October 10, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 

Upsets abound as Flanner and Stanford fall 
ByJOECAVATO 
Sporn Writer 
Last Saturday's NCAA football action saw several upsets. This Sunday's interhall action expe­rienced much of the same. 
The first of these upsets was when No. 9 Keenan unseated Flanner from their No. 2 posi­tion. 
The Keenan defensive unit refused to allow the Cocks' run­ning game to get going. Planner'·s· opening drive was stopped on fourth and one from the Keenan 40. This play proved to set the tone for the rest of the game as the Cocks' offense was frustrated all day. 
On Keenan's second poses­sion, quarterback Chad Chevalier benefited from a tipped pass that landed in the hands of receiver Matt Rech­ner. That acrobatic catch was good for 24 yards and it set up Chenalier's 48 yard scoring strike to Ben Mitchell on third and fifteen. Out of the point­after formation Keenan went for two as Chevalier found his receiver to start and end the scoring for the day. 
After the quick Keenan touch­down, the Cocks' frustrations continued. Quarterback, Scott Lupo and tailback J. P. Fenningham got mixed up in the backfield and the ball wound up on the ground, where Keenan recovered. 
But the Cocks' defense held and got the ball back into the hands of their quarterback at their 35 with 1:33 left in the half. 
The Flanner drive was helped by two Keeenan penalties. With ten seconds remaining, 
' I 

Flanner elected to get on the the Stud's defense stepped up scoreboard with 27 yard field and forced Dillon into a fourth goal attempt. The kick sailed down situation. wide right. On fourth and six, Sgro found 
The second half looked a lot his tight end over the middle like the first. The Keenan de­who tumbled to the ten. As fense continued to keep time was winding down, Dillon Flanner off track as they was forced to try a 31 yard field refused to give up the lead. goal. The kick hooked left and 
This was a huge win and ef­the half ended with Stanford fort for Keenan. 
still up by six. 
"This win gives Neither offense us confidence could get anything going into the last going in the third game of the sea­frame. But with son, which is a six and a half must win for us," minutes left in the commented cap­game, the Big Red tain Rob Wolf" offense arose 
from its slumber. D i I I o n 7 , Starting from Stanford 6 his own 46, Sgro
L...___________j 
Sunday's second game on north Stepan field saw yet an­other upset as No. 7 Dillon topped No.4 Stanford. 
From the looks of their first drive, it appeared that the Studs were going to rebound from their loss to Flanner last week. Led by quarterback Mike Brown and the running of John Mele, Stanford took their initial possession 65 yards while chewing up six minutes of the clock. 
Mele accounted for 19 of those 65 yards on three carries. Then on fourth and six, Brown hit Doug Pullina with a short pass who scampered 26 yards for the score. The PAT failed. 
The Big Red offense took the field with three minutes left in the half and great field posi­tion. After a first down pass, rushed for 16 and 19 yards on back to back plays to get the Big Red going. After a pick up of six by running back and cap­tain Pete Meyer, Sgro found his tight end again for twelve yards, taking them down to the four. 

With the Studs on their heels, Mtyer punched it in to tie the game up at six. The crucial extra point split the uprights to give Dillon a 7-6 lead with 1:45 left in the contest. 
A late Stanford drive was foiled by a Pete Meyer intercep­tion in the end zone, securing the 7-6 Dillon victory. 
"We're coming together as a team now, and we got that great drive late in the game against a very good Stanford team. This game probably secures a playoff bid for us, so it was a very big win," explained Meyer. 
Morrissey 13 Grace 6 
When the squad from Morris­sey takes the field, usually the story is running back Mark Tate. In this past Sunday's vic­tory over Grace the story remained the same. 
Tate rushed for 148 yards on 13 carries (that's an 11.4 aver­age for you math majors) along with two touchdowns. Morris­sey's Superman had five carries of over ten yards, including touchdown runs of 43 and 27 yards. 
Morrissey had good field posi­tion at the Grace 43 when Mr. Tate took over with two min­utes left in the half. Tate bust­ed through the line and passed Grace defenders like they were tied to trees for a 43 yard strike. The half ended with Morrissey on top 7-0. 
In the fourth quarter Grace threatened behind the arm of their quarterback, Brian Perez. Perez hit wide out Walter Gor­don and tight end Dave Butz. Then Perez found Gordon in the endzone for 34 yards to' push the score to 7-6. Grace went for two and the lead, but Perez' pass went ofT Gordon's linger­tips. Thus, the Manor stayed on top 7-6. Tate responded in a big way for the Manor. After several tough runs on third and five and fourth and one, Tate broke loose again for 24 yards and yet another six to bring the tally to 13-6. 



Cheap. Not as cheap as a taco, but hey. 


Macintosh Performa• 6214CD 
8MB RAM/lOOOMB harddrive, Power PC 603 jJrrJces5or, quad spem CD-ROM drive, 15" rolor monilol; lteyboarrl, mouse and an the software;wre likely /() ne«l. 
RIGHT NOW AT YOUR CAMPUS RESELLER. Unfortunately, they won't stay this low forever. So you need to forget about how hard}Uur life is for a Being astudent is hard. So we've made buying aMacintosh" easy. So easy, in fact, that the minute and start thinking about how easy itwill be with aMacintosh. The com-App·l .J. prices on Macintosh personal computers are now even lower than their already low student prices. puter that gives you the power any student can use. The power to be your best~ !l€­





HOT. 
Burn, baby, burn-disco inferno. 

MAC. • 
Not the burger, pal-the killer computer. 


Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB •631-7477 M-F9am-Spm 
1'rotllld~ producl al:ollabOIIy and sales taxes may vary. Offer expires Oclober 13, 1995. ©1995 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved A[1ile, the Apple logo, Macintosh, Mad11tosb Performa, PowerBooll, Laserll!iler Select, Color Sty/eii'Hier and ''Tbf power 10 INyour best" rm rtg1s1mt1 ~ofAppk Compu!er, Inc. Power Macinlosb and Mac are trademarils ofApple Computer, Inc. CarrihShop Plus Is a registered trademark ofMlndscape. All A[1ile"products are designed to be accessible to Individuals wllh disabi/1/y. 7b lertrn mort! (U.S. only), C4IJ 800-776-WJ or TDD 800-813·62-U. 

Tuesday, October 10, 1995 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALl • SAINT MARY's SoccER 
Rotations key to NL series 
Rough schedule plaguing Belles
ByJOE KAY 

Associated Press 
CINCINNATI 
The Atlanta Braves' playoff rotation of Tom Glavine, John Smoltz and Greg Maddux is re­garded as the best in baseball. 
Then there's the Cincinnati Reds' starting staff -strong from the left side, way short on playoff experience. Pete Schourek, John Smiley and David Wells all throw left-hand­ed and all are something of a mystery in the postseason. 
While the Braves' top three has a combined 19 playoff starts, the Reds' trio has a total of five. Schourek and Wells had never started a playoff game before this year. and Smiley is still winless in the postseason. 
"They are' the biggest un­known in the NL championship series, which starts Tuesday night, and they could be the biggest factor in deciding who heads to the World Series. The Reds know what to expect from Glavine, Smoltz and Maddux. The Braves are at a bit of a dis­advantage. 
"I think one thing they have going for them is the fact that we haven't seen Schourek or Wells at all this season," At­lanta's Chipper Jones said. 
Jazz Dance-
offering a 
Monday and 
from 6:30-7 
the class is 

How much of an advantage is open to interpretation. The Braves may not know exactly what to expect at the plate, but they know all about playoff pressure. The Reds are just get­ting used to it. 
The starters held up fine dur­ing a three-game sweep of Los Angeles, but that felt more like a regular-season series. This is much different. 
"You're going to have the nerves because you're just one step away from The Show," Wells said after Monday's workout. "I think right now is where it's going to really kick in and the nerves are going to be erratic and your mind's go­ing to be wandering, so you've just got to do everything in your power to try to block it out." 
Their arm preference is the main reason manager Davey Johnson has them lined up to face the Braves, whose main power threats hit left-handed: David Justice, Fred McGriff and Ryan Klesko. Jones, a switch­hitter, had 20 of his 23 homers from the left side. 
"That's smart, you know," 
said Glavine, who will pitch 
against Schourek in Game 1. 
"He's got three good ones. You 
play the percentages and the 
matchups and try to neutralize our left-handed punch." 
There are few clues as to how it might play out because of an oddity: The Braves have not seen much of the Reds' playoff rotation. 
By happenstance, the Braves have faced Smiley in four of their 13 games and Schourek just once. Wells came over from Detroit in a late-season trade and didn't pitch against Atlanta. 
The Braves beat Smiley once, lost to him once and didn't let him get a decision the other two times. They roughed Schourek up pretty good in his start June 19 in Atlanta, piling up eight hits and five runs in six innings. 
It was one of Schourek's worst starts in an 18-7 season. 
"1 hung a couple of pitches, wasn't keeping the ball down, wasn't ahead in the count like I usually am," Schourek said. "It doesn't matter what kind of stuff you have. If you're not do­ing that, you're not going to be successful. They only saw me once and they hit me around pretty good, so they should feel pretty confident going into to­morrow. I think I'll be a little different tomorrow night than I was that night. I've learned a lot since then." 
By ALLISON MEAGHER 
Sports Writer 
Fatigue has taken its toll on the Saint Mary's soccer team. This year the team avoided games scheduled for football Saturdays, forcing them to play a lot of games in just a few days. The Belles have had three games over a four day span, making it rough for them to improve their record. 
In their three consecutive games at home, the Belles lost to Kalamazoo College 3-0 last Thursday, came back with a 1-0 win against the University of Wisconsin Whitewater on Saturday, then ended with a 1-0 loss on Sunday against Wooster College. 
The team played well on Saturday, both offensively and defensively, as the outcome reflected. Senior Tiffany Raczynski, the game's only scorer, played an all-around terrific game. 
The tables turned for the 
Belles on Sunday. Coming off a great win the day before, the team was fatigued as they fell to Wooster College. Although they played a great game, Wooster's defense did not allow Saint Mary's a single goal. 
"Wooster scored in the sec­ond half," said senior Gwyne Davis. "Our offense was not very effective against a great Wooster defense, even though the forwards and halfbacks made a few good runs and some nice shots on goal." 
Also hurting the team was the absence of one of their leading scorers. Lisa Nichols did not play all weekend due to injury. 
"We all played our hearts out, everyone gave 100%," Davis said. 
Hopefully the Belles will continue their strong effort and come up with a win on their road trip to Illinois­Wesleyan this Wednesday. They have the next two days to recuperate. 
---, 
Clilnese-American 1 Restaurant & Cocktail Lounge ~uthentic Szechuan, M:ndarin & HWlan Cuisir.: 
Bar & Restaurant open 7 days a week Lunches starting at ..... $4.25 Dinners starting at ..... $5.95 Votcd.Be~~ 
Orif!ntal Resta"rant.'
Banquet rooms available for up to 200 in Michiana by ·· .~ 
130 Dixie Way N., South Beod 
Midziana NultA'­
(next to R&Iidall's Inn ) 



B.C. B 

Win $1 00 for yourself and for your dorm! 


Create a banner to display outside your dorm, supporting the Fighting Irish as they face rival Boston College on Oct. 28. 
The banner with the most spirit and creativity wins! 
Entry forms and rules can be picked up  
in the Student Government Office on  
the second floor of Lafortune. Deadline  This contest is brought to you by  
for entry is Tuesday, October 24.  Student Government.  

I l 
Tuesday, October 10, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
goal and a couple of turnovers. runs, Krahl took a screen pass 
• WOMEN'S INTERHALL
for 20 yards and another touch­Zahm 21, Sorin 0 down. continued from page 20 The big-play Zahm defense did its part on Sunday, posting Alumni 19, St. Edward's 0 
Men's IH 
Phoxes down Walsh 
the field. 
Late in the fourth quarter, with Fisher leading 21-7 follow­ing a Nelson touchdown, Car­roll attempted a last ditch comeback effort. All they could produce, however, was a field 
Men's Powe 
Poll 

1 Zahm 4-0-0 2 Morrissey 3-1-0 3 3 Alumni 3-1-0 5 4 Dillon 3-0-1 7 5 Flanner 2-1-0 2 6 Keenan 1-1-1 9 7 Stanford 1-2-0 4 8 Fisher 2-2-0 10 9 Carroll 2-2-0 6 10 Grace 1-3-0 8 11 Sarin 0-3-1 12 '12 Off Campus 0-3-0 11 13 St. Ed's 0-3-1 13 
Player of the Week 
MaU Mammolenti of Alumni shreaded the St. Edward's defense for 168 yards and three touchdowns in Alumni's 19-0 victory over the Sleds. 
yet another shutout. The big plays of note on this day, how­ever, came from the offensive side of the ball. 
On Zahm's first drive of the game, two Travis Krahl runs and a 9-yard screen pass to Dan Glennon set up the first of many quick-strike plays. On first and 25, following a myste­rious fifteen yard penalty, Zahm set up in the wishbone. Glennon took the hand-off, swept left, and appeared to be heading out of bounds for a de­cent gain. Before everyone knew it though, Glennon had stopped, turned right, and sped all the way across the field and down the right sideline, scoring a dazzling 55 yard touchdown. 
With the clock winding down, Zahm's field goal team came on to attempt a 57 yard field goal. Quarterback Chris Orr, the holder, took the snap, dropped back, and heaved a forty yard bomb to Paul Berentini. De­spite catching the pass, Beren­tini was downed on the one­yard line, foiling this attempt. 
The second half continued the first half trend of backbreaking plays. Orr connected with Shane Lampman on a 45 yard bomb, bringing the score to 14­0, in Zahm's favor. 
It wasn't over yet, though, as Zahm tried to control the ball by staying on the ground late in the game. Because of Orr's late ejection from the game, the Zahmbies played smashmouth. At least they wanted Sorin to think so. After five straight 

CLASS SERVICE PROJECTS 
FALL BREAK 
EXPERIENCE WITH POTOWATOMIINDIANS 
OCTOBER 16-OCTOBER 19 
·ASSIST WITH HOUSING RENOVATION 
·WILL CONCLUDE WITH POW WOW 
CELEBRATION 
FINAL INFORMATION MEETING WEDNESDAY OCTOBER 11, 1995 7:00PM 
IF INTERESTED, CALL PETE A.S.A.P. AT 634-2306 OR SR. CLASS OFFICE AT 631-5136 
In an otherwise boring game that featured little offense on the Sted side and the usual, ground-it-out, get-out-of-our­way style of the Alumni Dawgs, Matt Mammolenti was a star. 
Take a look at Mamma's numbers for the day, and you'll have a good idea what he is all about. Mammolenti rushed for 168 yards, and scored all 3 of Alumni's touchdowns. 
On their first drive, Mammo­lenti had two runs of 25 yards, the second of which went for a touchdown. 
The second half began just like the first half. Give the ball to Mammo and get out of the way. He rushed 6 times for 54 yards, one of which was a 3 yard scamper for a touchdown. He wasn't stopping there. On the ensuing Alumni drive, Mammolenti took the first down hand-off and went 50 yards down the right sideline, setting up a first and goal on the 5 yard-line. It took him three tries, but finally, on third down, he punched it in, completing his phenomenal day, and putting the Dawgs on top to stay, 19-0. 



Women's Powe 

Poll 
1 Pangborn 6-0-0 1 2 P.W. 5-0-0 2 3 Walsh 5-1-0 3 4 P.E. 4-1-0 8 5 Lyons 3-2-1 5 6 Badin 3-2-1 6 7 Lewis 2-2-1 7 8 Howard 2-4-0 10 9 Knott 1-3-1 9 10 Off Campus 2-3-0 4 11 Farley 1-5-0 11 12 Siegfried 1-4-0 14 13 Cavanaugh 1-5-0 13 14 B.P. 0-6-0 12 
Player of the Week 
Michelle Dillenburger of Badin playing as both tailback and linebacker put on a marvalous show as she scored two touchdowns and recorded three interceptions in Badin's 14-0 win over Howard. 
University of Notre Dame International Study Progn1m In 
By MARK GRIFFIN 
Sports Writer 
In a battle of unbeatens, #1 Pangborn outplayed #3 Walsh, winning by a 20-6 margin. The game was a close defensive struggle in the first half, the only score coming on Pangborn's touchdown on the opening drive. 
To open the second half, Walsh scored on an option by quarterback Carolyn Parnell. However, the ensuing extra point was missed. 
The kickoff to Trish Sorensen was returned 30 yards to set up good field position for Pang­born. Several plays later, Sorensen caught a touchdown pass that regained the momen­tum for the Phoxes. 
Pangborn's following defen­sive series resulted in three straight sacks that turned the tide of the game. The ensuing offensive series ended in an in­surance touchdown for the Phoxes as they removed the hopes of a Walsh comeback. 
"The most important thing was the consistent effort and intensity maintained thoughout the game," said Sorensen. 
Lyons 26, Howard 0 
The high powered offense of #5 Lyons, driven by quarter­back Julie Byrd, ran roughshod over #10 Howard, a squad plagued by injuries. Byrd scored on two option runs and threw for two more to Jerry 
Wo01en's 
continued from page 20 
"The offense came out strong and established itself early," said linebacker Amy Crawford. "That smt of helped the de­fense to play stronger in the second half." 
After having one touchdown nullified by a penalty in the first half, the Crime spent the remainder of the game battling it out with the officials. Coach Joe Taylor was ejected for arguing an early call, and Off Campus was on the wrong end of several tough calls in the second half. 
Lewis 18 Farley 0 
For.all practical purposes, this one was over before the whistle blew for the opening 

INNSBRUCK, AUSTRIA 
INFORMATION MEETING FILM"AUSTRIA" With Professor Marie -Antoinette Kremer 
Wednesday October 11, 1995 
4:30pm 

119 DeBartolo 
Returning students will be on hand to answer questions. 
Ladgen and Kerry Callahan. 
"Our execution was perfect," said Lyons head coach John Schoenig. He also had nothing but praise for Kathy Tsichanz who played an important role in the offense by making sev­eral clutch catches. 
Badin 7, Breen Phillips 0 

#6 Badin beat #12 Breen Phillips on a second half touch­down. In a game defined throughout by dominating de­fenses, the play of Shelly Tonka stood out. 
Tonka had two interceptions and several pass knockdowns to spark the stifling defense of Badin. On the lone scoring drive in the second half, Tonka also contributed with three key catches that each resulted in a first down. Tina Fouco, playing with a broken arm and a pulled hamstring, ran in the only touchdown of the game. 
"We had a rough start be­cause we played a lot of fresh­men, however the turning was the Lyons game," said Badin head coach Chris Demores. "Our freshmen have really stepped up and picked up the team. The loss to Pangborn by 1 point was key for this team. 
BP put up a tough fight. On a series that included a second half reverse, and a fourth down completion inside Badin's 20, Breen Phillips was unable to complete the series and score a touchdown. 
kickoff. 
Lewis came out like a smok­ing gun in the first half and never looked back. Quarter­back Liz Talarico ignited an explosive offensive attack, and cornerbacks Dina Brick and Heather Lepeska sparked a defensive effort that was equal­ly as dominant in the 18-0 win over Farley. 
The Chicks jumped out to a 6-0 lead when Talarico found receiver Carrie Upp wide open in the end zone on the team's second possession of the first half. Not to be outdone, tail­back Emily Miller followed it up with a 20-yard touchdown run to extend the lead to 12-0. 
The score stood at 12-0 until the final play of the game. De­fensive back Maureen Neville picked off a "Hail Mary" pass and ran it back 50 yards to give Lewis the 18-0 victory. 


~---~--~~ 
The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, October 10, 1995 
lined for the 1993 se:a.sQn. m-e not coJmbarJ'lhl·e.Jt'a spokesman 
-"'Here we're 
about)ai\it~ouplle::Of y 
before get ·back in the: Green{:) S&id, 
The Dolphins·play leans on Sunday. "Bernie has been here 
year, and be knows the ... tern," Gr.eene said. "He worked hard to get ready ~:tnd will work harder this 'week to get· ready for the Saints ganie on Sunday!' 
During arthroscopic s1n'gery~, doctors use a television-assist;. ed telescope make repairs with sutures or by th~ damaged cartilage other tissue.. The r sUrgery has been u about 20years. 
Tampa fBay Bucc team physician Joseph 
~.in 'famp( filaid .· . ·.,.,;;.nt.r.r': usually sidelines a to four weeks. The r•u•nvArv time dep~Jl,d,s on tlle . 

swelling, how an inrllivi•rlnR heals and whether 

Injuries 
continued from page 20 
again and against a wishbone team is not an easy task to do." 
Notre Dame gave up 171 yards rushing to Husky running back Rashaan Shehee, who uti­lized the fast turf to make cut­back moves on the Irish defense. Of course, it's better to let him cut back than to try to get back to make a play and blow out a knee. 
The Irish already know about knee injuries. In addition to Grasmanis' sprained knee last Saturday, Kurt Belisle just had reconstructive surgery after tearing cartilage against Van­derbilt. ·Robert Farmer tore lig­aments in the same game, and will still be out for the next two weeks. Offensive guard Jeremy Akers injured his knee in prac­tice September 6, and will be out for at least another two weeks. 
Sometimes the injuries are just freak accidents. Sopho­more defensive back Jarvis Edison suffered abdominal con­tusions after a brutal collision with LaRon Moore while both were going for an interception. 
But regardless of the injury, the reality for the Irish is that whether they like it or not, the 
COLD SORES-? Apply LYCALL OINTMENT when you feel that first tingle, and the cold sore may not break out at all. Or if it has, LYCALL OINTMENT may help get rid of it in a day or two. ASK YOUR DRUGGIST, or send $4.95 for 8 Om to: CALEB LABORATORIES, INC. 529 S. Seventh St. Minneapolis, MN 55415 Satisfaction Guaranteed 


THE 
~'\\'IrA!'I' 
DOMER DASH 
** A National Collegiate Alcohol Awareness Week Event ** 
*** Sponsored by: Office of Recreational Sports & Office of Alcohol and Drug Education *** 

highly touted freshman class will have to prove their worth a little earlier than expected. 
With the possibility of Kinder sitting out, Denson may get the start. Another possibility would be to put Marc Edwards at tail­back and rotate Marcus Thorne and Jamie Spencer at fullback. Spencer can probably count on one hand how many plays he's seen this season. 
"Jamie is a very intelligent football player," Holtz said. "He catches the ball very well. The problem with Jamie right now is we put the ball on the ground too much at practice." 
But fumbling the ball at least means you're playing, which is better than sitting on the side­lines on crutches or in a cast. 

The Hammes 
I
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
"on the campus " Open Monday -Saturday 9 am -5 pm 

3 
-
Scotch Magic Tape 

Post-it Note 3 pack Scotch Glue Stick 2 pack 


~Cents 
Printed Post-it Notes Slimline 




SEE THE IRISH TAKE ON THE NATION'S BEST I 
I I 


UCONN  GEORGETOWN  ST. JOHN'S  MIAMI  
Preseason No. 5  Preseason No. 3  Preseason No. 15  '95 NIT Participant  
'95 NCAA Elite 8 Participant  '95 NCAA Sweet 16 Participant  '95 NIT Participant  


PITTSBURGH RUTGERS PROVIDENCE SETON HALL WEST VIRGINIA 
STUDENT TICKET DISTRIBUTION SCHEDULE Seniors .................... Tuesday ................... Oct. 10 .................. 8:00 a.m.-5:00p.m. Juniors ..................... Wednesday ............. Oct. 11 ................ 8:00 a.m.-12:30 p.m. Law/Grad ................. Wednesday ............. Oct. 11 ................ 12:30 p.m.-5:00p.m. Sophomores ............ Thursday ................. Oct. 12 ................ 8:00 a.m.-12:30 p.m. Freshmen ................ Thursday ................. Oct. 12 ................ 12:30 p.m:-5:00 p.m. STUDENT ISSUE AT GATE 10-JOYCE CENTER Please Note: If you choose to stand in line prior to your issue time, you may not hold spaces for classmates. Aperson must be in line for every four tickets to be purchased.  
. 1995·96 MEN'S BASKETBALL SCHEDULE Nov. 9.................... Australian National Jan. 20 ................................... Rutgers Nov. 20 .................... Athletes in Action Jan. 27 ........................... West Virginia Nov. 25 ..................................... Akron* Feb. 11 ................................ St. John's Dec. 6............................... Connecticut Feb. 13 ................................ Pittsburgh Dec. 20 ..................................... UCLA* Feb. 21 .............................. Providence Dec. 28 .............................. San Diego* Feb. 24 ............................... Seton Hall Dec. 30 ................. Loyola Marymount* Feb. 28 ...................................... Miami Jan. 15 ............................ Georgetown * Games omitted from student package because of Thanksgiving and Christmas breaks are indicated by an asterisk (*) in the schedule.  


page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, October 10, 1995 
• VOLLEYBALL •Nfl 
Irish travel to face Broncos Boomer still reeling from 

By BETSY BAKER 
Sports Writer 
The most challenging aspect for the tenth-ranked Notre Dame volleyball team in their match against Western Michi­gan tonight should be the·three hour round-trip to Kalamazoo, Michigan. 
No offense to the Broncos, of course. 
Western Michigan has be­come a victim of geographical proximity as the Irish will take their 15-1 record, 3-0 in the Big East, to University Arena with hopes of adding both a win to their record and experience to their roster as they prepare for fall break, when they will face four top-25 teams and two con­ference rivals in ten days. 
Led by junior outside hitters Bridget Norris and Liz Gunn, the Broncos post a 6-11 record, 3-4 in the Mid-American Con­ference. However, they are coming off three straight victo­ries which should ignite their fire in efforts to upset the na­tionally-ranked Irish. 
"Irish Head· Coach Debbie Brown, expects the match tonight to be challenging. "Based on what we have seen on video, I think they (Western Michigan) will be better than Duke, who we just played," Brown said. The Irish beat the Blue Devils last Sunday 15-8, 15-5, 15-9. 
The Irish are coming off seven straight victories since their first loss of the season to Texas, with each match being a three-game sweep of their op­ponent. The team has seen some strong performances from each of its members, especially in the kill category. The role of leading attacker has see-sawed 
"Moonlight & Valentino" (R) 
2:00, 4:20, 7:00, 9:20 
"The Big Green" (PG) 
2:00, 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 
"Steal Big, StealliHie" (PG·13) 
2:15, 5:00, 8:15

.. 
(R) 
2:30, 5:30. 8:30 
"Desperado" (R) 
1:30, 4:15,7:15,9:40 
"Last or the Dogmen" (PG) 
2:00, 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 
"Usual Suspects" (R) 
2:30, 5:00, 7:25, 9:45 
"To Wong Foo" (PG·13) 
2:15,4:45, 7:15,9:45 

between sophomores Jaimie Lee and Angie Harris with Lee maintaining a slight edge with 241 kills. Harris follows closely behind with 228 kills and leads the team in service aces with 30. 
The main goal of the Irish in the match against the Broncos tonight will be to continue to put up these impressive num­bers through the efforts of the whole team and avoid looking past Western Michigan to im­pending fall break matches. "As long as we play up to our capability, we should win," Brown said. "But our main goal is to guard against looking past Western Michigan to fall break." 
Still, preparing for the trip 

tremendous Smith shot 
By BARRY WILNER best football player -but also Associated Press the classiest in terms of playing within the rules.'' HEMPSTEAD, N.Y. Smith said he takes pride in 
It was about as vicious a hit being considered that kind of as there is in the NFL. Also player.about as legal as it gets. 
"I consider myself to be one So Boomer Esiason, his head 
of the cleanest players in the 

still pulsating from a shot by league," he said. "I don't goBruce Smith, on Monday ab­
out and try to cheap-shot a solved the Bills defensive end of guy. I don't go out with the 
any blame for the concussion intent of injuring or hurtingthe Jets quarterback sustained anybody on any given play. I in Sunday's 29-10 loss to Buf­
just go out and do the job I am falo. 
paid to do each and every''I've seen the hit on our own 
week.'' film and I have seen it on ESPN last night," Esiason said. "I do Esiason was checked out by not hold Bruce Smith respon­team doctors, received a sible for anything. If I was a 
neurological exam and was told football coach, and I had Bruce 
to undergo an MRI and thenthat lies ahead of the Irish, can­

Smith as my player -and I 
rest for several days. All of his not be avoided. They will trav­had other young players com­vital signs were good, doctorsel to no. 25 Georgia Tech on 

ing up -I would say to them, 
told Esiason, who is listed asFriday and no. 12 Texas for a 

'This is how you have to be.' 
doubtful for the upcoming

rematch on Saturday. Then it's "I do want everybody to game with Carolina. 
off to California to take on 
know that certainly I've always 
Jets coach Rich Kotitefourth-ranked Stanford and 

considered Bruce one of the 
blamed the officials for the Jossninth-ranked Long Beach State 

finest football players to play 
of his starting quarterback for

next week before returning 
the game, physically. I know 
nearly three-quarters of the

home for two matches against him off the field and I know game and probably for nextconference rivals Syracuse and 
how he is. I've played probably Sunday.
Pittsburgh next weekend. 
in about 10-12 games against 
"The flag came out late andHarris cites the match against 

him, and never once have I 
there was no whistle," KotiteTexas as especially significant ever felt like he ever did any­said. "The official was movingas it gives the Irish a chance to thing outside the rules. upfield because it was a passavenge their only loss of the 

"I know that question was play.
season. 
posed to him yesterday. And it "I don't think it mattered"We are really looking for­is important that not only he who was playing left tackle.
ward to playing Texas again," know, but everybody else Our guy (inexperienced EverettHarris said. "We definitely know, that he's still in my book Mciver) was swaying, I saw
don't need any motivation 
as one of the best -if not the 
him move and Bruce took off." 

against them." 
y Ad~~ 
P~c~~F4, &rc~~c~& f~R~A~ 
Tickets are on sale today at the LaFortune Box Office. $3 for ND/SMC/HCC students, faculty and staff 
PROVE TO MOM AND DAD THAT THEIR MONEY IS WELL SPENT. 
HOME OPENER 
vs. 
GUELPH 
7:00p.m. 
Joyce Center Ice Arena 

WE'RE MORE TH!lN JUST SPORTSWE!lR. 



CALVIN AND HOBBES 
IA.Y \..EJ>f CO\..LE.C.Tic~ IS 
IXX:t<\ED.' I ON.1 B£.UE.'IE. 1"0'<\ WOO\...DKT TP-.I(E Mt. 10 ll\t. W.~ET\JM . I-ICl WO!-I~R I GEl BAD ~~s .' 
DILBERT 


DON'T FORGETAFTER BREAK October 24, 7:45am sign-ups begin! 
YOGA  TAICHI  
Mondays, Oct. 30-Dec. 4  6:15-7:30pm OR  Thursdays, Oct. 26-Nov. 30  
Tuesdays, Oct. 31-Dec. 5 Classes meet in Loftus 114  5:45-7:00pm  5:30-6:30 pm or 6:45-7:45pm Classes 1neet in Loftus 114  

Cost is $18 631-6100 Cost is $15 
• OF INTEREST 

"Catholicism and Politics In Cuba Today" is a seminar given today by Aurelio Alonso from Centro de Estu:dios sobre America, Havana, Cuba & Kellogg Insti­tute. The seminar will take place In room C-103 of the HesQurgh Center for International Studies at 12:30 P.M. Job Search Beyond On-Campus Interviews: Using the most effective resources for conducting a job search, establishing a contact network and targeting a geographical area, composing an effective cover Jetter, and the timing and follow-up of your correspondence. This workshop will be held today from 4:00-5:00 P.M. in the Notre Dame Room, LaFortune Student Center. It will be presented by Paul Reynolds, Associate Director. . A Study Abroad Fair sponsored by the Office of In­ternational Study Programs will be held tonight from 
6:30 to 9;00 P.M. It will be held in the Ballroom of LaFortune Student Center and students wm be able to chat with returnees of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's International Programs including Australia, Austria, Chile, Egypt, England, France Grel;)ce, India, Irelnnd, Italy Japan Jerusalem, Mexico, and Spain. Right to Life General Meeting: come to Mont­gomery Theater in LaFortune today from 7:30 to 8:30 for information about getting involved in our upcoming 
events. 
32 Cable TV option 33 Southwestern 
stews 34 Regrets 36 Be mistaken 37 Author Fleming 38 Pertaining to 
the ear 39 Exam type 40 "Cleopatra" 
setting 43 Thespians 44 Paint the town 
red? 45 Souls: Lat. 

47 Musical range 57 Sheltered, 
•MENU

48 Crash maker nautically 50 Ties up 
59 Elev. 
Notre Dame 

51 Enero a 60 Snackeddiciembre 
NORTH
61-­

52 Bank Mediterranee 
Chicken Chimichanga 
repositories 55 Arrive 62 Madison 
Parslied Potatoes 

56 Gardened, in a Avenue 
Harvest Vegetables 

way' offerings 
Saint Ma.rv's Marinated Chicken Breast 
Get answers to any three clues 
Oven Roasted Red Potatoes
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
Broccoli

5656 (75¢ each minute). 
go of past. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Aug. 22): Han­

dle routine work efficiently, 
revamping your schedule to elimi­
nate the unnecessary. Those con­
nected with the arts or entenainment 
world. get a lucky break. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Someone close to you may express doubt, worry or subtle antagonism. Talking things over in a mature fashion helps you get to the bottom of your differences. Extra effon is necessary to keep a promise. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your nerves could be frayed by impending work changes or finan­cial concerns. Isolate yourself while trying to sort things out. Your friends are loving and supponive. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your positive outlook on life helps you make constructive deci­sions. Steer clear of arguments; diplomacy and compromise can accomplish miracles. Wear your hean on your sleeve. Your romantic partner needs to know how much you care. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): A good day for putting the finishing touches on a creative project. Your personal magnetism is at a peak. Be open-minded if others comes to you with an unconventional plan. Take someone by surprise. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): The atmosphere at work lightens. Cooperation and mutual respect are a winning .combination! Strengthen your commitment to family and close friends. Make key phone calls and mail important letters without further delay. Romance gradually deepens. 
SOUTH Roast Turkey Breast Shrimp Spaghetti Whipped Potatoes 
J 

r 
i 
I 
I 
Ii ­l 
SPORTS
~ 
page 20 Tuesday, October 10, 1995
I 
I 
• INTERHAll fOOTBAll 

Crunch time approaching as Interhall rolls on 
Fisher scores upset; Zahm whips Sarin 
By TIM MCCONN Spans Writer 
This was supposed to be a day of no-brainers. Highly­ranked teams facing off against the lower-echelon opponents. Piece of cake, right? Wrong. On this day, Carroll, a team that has shown flashes of both brilliance and dullness, could not withstand the charge of the upstart Green Wave of Fisher. 
Carroll was supposed to be the team with the powerful full­back who got the tough yardage and threw the deadly blocks, and the speedy tailback who amassed yardage at will. However, because of injuries, this simply was not the case. Forced to turn to the air, the Vermin were dead meat. 
Fisher took this chance to show off their own version of a fullback-tailback combination. With Dave Walsh leading the way, tailback Dane Nelson rushed for 151 yards and one touchdown. His 55 yard burst on a fourth and 1 play in the first quarter ignited the previ­ously stagnant Fisher offense. Two plays later, Walsh scored from 1 yard out. 
Carroll retaliated on their next drive through the air. Quarterback Tim Nelson con­nected with end Willie Bauer on a 45 yard bomb for a touch­down and a 7-7 tie. 
This score would not hold off Fisher for long. After a Dane Nelson run on first down, tight end Brian Hertz caught a 40 yard bomb, putting Fisher up 14-7. With Nelson and Walsh simply pounding away at the defense non-stop, even into the fourth quarter, Fisher con­trolled the game by wearing down the Vermin defense and keeping the Carroll offense off 
see MEN'S IH I page 15 


Fisher tailback Dane Nelson had a field day against the Vermin, rushing for 151 yards and scoring a touch­down in the Green Wave's 21-10 victory.The Fisher victory was a significant upset this weekend. 
• fOOTBALL 

Banged up 
By MIKE NORBUT Spans Editor 
Lou Holtz has never coached against Army. But if they're anything like Navy or the Air Force, he won't have a prob­lem. 
With a record of 17-0 in his career, the Irish head coach has generally done away with the pesky Midshipmen and Falcons with the use of little more than a fly swatter. 
But he needs more than an economy size can of Raid to chase away the injury bug. 
"We're pretty well banged up at this time," he said. "All we can do is just keep pressing for­ward." 
Pressing forward, that is, with eight players out and two others questionable for Saturday's game at The Meadowlands. 
The latest casualties from Saturday's match-up w:th Washington are pretty impor­tant. Nose guard Paul Grasmanis sprained his knee and missed most of the second half. He's one of the doubtful ones. 

Another one is tailback Randy Kinder, Notre Dame's leading rusher with 638 yards so far this year. He was replaced by Autry Denson in the second half after piling up 50 yards on 13 carries. It was the first time since Northwestern that he did not hit the 100-yard plateau. 
Reserve linebacker and spe­cial teams player Jeff Kramer also sprained his shoulder, but to a slightly worse degree. He'll miss five to six weeks. 
Receiver Derrick Mayes was a one-armed wonder by necessity in the second half, pulling in passes after bruising his elbow. 
Football 
vs. Army at Giants Stadium October 14, 12:30 EST 
Volleyball 
at Western Michigan October 10 
Women's Soccer 
vs. Duke October 13 vs. North Carolina October 15 Houston, Texas 
It turns out he has bursitis in his left elbow, and he left Seattle with his arm in a sling. He's listed as probable for Sat­urday's game against the Cadets. 
Unfortunately for the Irish, the thing that's most probable is a couple of other players will go down with injuries. 
"We Jose two people a game, and it's really unfortunate," Holtz said. "We just don't have the numbers to cope with it week in and week out." 
The Meadowlands has artifi­cia! turf. So did Husky Stadium last week. Two consecutive weeks on the green cement can't be good for knees and ankles. 

"I think about going up to the Meadowlands," Holtz contin­ued. "playing on that astroturf 
see INJURIES I page 16 

Men's Soccer 

vs. Providence October 14 
SMC Sports 

Soccer at Illinois Wesleyan October 11 Volleyball vs. North Park College October 10, 7 EST 
Pyros shut out Slammers; 
Weasels win 
By MIKE DAY Sports Writer 

On the surface, Sunday was just another typical day in women's Interhall football. The favorites beat the under­dogs, and the top players dom­inated in their usual fashion. However, in reality, it was any­thing but a typical day in the Gold Division. 
P.E. kicked off the evening with a 13-0 victory over a sur­prisingly pesky Siegfried squad. The No. 8 Pyros were expecting to walk all over the Slammers, but Siegfried came out fired up and gave the heavy favorite a tangle they weren't anticipat­ing. 
Pyro quarterback Elizabeth Plummer was at the top of her game on Sunday, throwing a pair of touchdown passes while adeptly directing the P.E. of­fense up and down the field. She broke a scoreless tie early in the half when she found tight end Jenny Shank wide open in the end zone on a crossing pattern. 
"Elizabeth played a really good game," said P.E. captain Sue O'Kain. "She ran the ball well and made some nice throws when we needed them." 

P.E. extended their lead to 13-0 as Plummer threw a per­fect strike to receiver Karen Randezi for a 20 yard score to open the second half. The PAT was no good, but the Slammers were unable to move the ball the against a stingy P.E. de­fense in the second half. 
Linebackers Mary Kay Cala­han and Lisa Deibler sparked a strong effort by one of IIiterhall football's best defenses. 
"The defense did a great job," said O'Kain. "They (Siegfried) were really fired up, but the defense has done well all year, and that showed again today." 
P.W. 12 OfT Campus 6 

Controversy played center stage in the battle of No. 2 P.W. and No. 4 Off Campus. The Purple Weasles continued to demonstrate the defense that has made them the top team in the Gold Division, but it took several debatable calls for them to put away a determined Off Campus· squad. 
P.W. jumped out of the gates in a hurry on Sunday, scoring two touchdowns within the first ten minutes of the contest. Quarterback Liz McKillop handed the ball off to tailback Trisha Carroll, who dashed into the end zone to give the Purple Weasles a 6-0 lead. 
Back-up quarterback Gina Couri, who often alternates with McKillop. capped the sec­ond drive with a 10 yard keep­er to extend the P.W. lead to 12-0. 
see WOMEN'S! page 15 
The Observer/Brian Hardy 
see page 14 

• Marino undergoes surgery 
see page -16 





