~--~-­

Friday, October 6, 1995 • Vol. XXVII No. 35 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• 
Mayoral candidates head down homestretch 

Democratic incumbent Joseph Kernan is seeking reelection with several achievements in his career including the construction of the College Football Hall of Fame. 
Editor's Note: In an effort to help inform the student body about their community, The Observer presents the first of an occasional series of updates on the South Bend city mayoral elec­tion. Election Day is November 7. 
By ETHAN HAYWARD Associate News Editor JAMIE HEISLER Assistant News Editor 
Crime. The College Football Hall of Fame. Unpaid child support. Arrests. Taxes. Hockey. 
The issues are clearly drawn in this year's South Bend mayoral campaign. It remains to be seen whose views on each issue will have the force of law. Incumbent Democrat Joseph Kernan is seeking his third term as mayor, while Republican Michael Waite seeks to gain control of a traditionally Democratic city. 
The two candidates have formed their platforms on opposing sides of several issues. Each has different ideas about what is best for the city as well as who should run it. 
Waite has alleged that Kernan has 


Kernan seeks third term 
Incumbent runs on past record of accomplishments 
By ETHAN HAYWARD Associate News Editor 
Henowned for his capacity for bringing economic development to South Bend and St. Joseph Gounty, Joseph Kernan is·seek­ing a third term as the city's mayor. 
Kernan graduated from Notre name in 1968, and served five and a half years as a Naval flight ollicer. lie has worked in business for eight years, collec­tively, and served as City Comptroller from 1980 to 1984. He was elected to his first term as Mayor in 1987 and was re­elected in 1991. His wife Mag­gie, a graduate of Purdue Uni­versity, is a career woman. 
Among Kernan's achieve­ments in ollice is the construc­tion of the College Football Hall of Fame in South Bend. Financ­ing for the Hall of Fame has come under fire from Republi­can candidate Michael Waite and local resident John Cierz­niak. Kernan says the financing was simply paid for with bonds sold by the city. Corporate sponsors and donors in turn pay off the bonds. The Hall of Fame currently has four corpo­rate sponsors and is still seek-
Unidentified suspect assaults ND student 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST Associate News Editor 
A female sophomore student was assaulted by an unidenti­fied male while walking along the path around St. Joseph's Lake near Lewis Hall yesterday afternoon. 
At approximately 1:15 p.m., the suspect approached the student from the rear and placed his forearm around her throat in a headlock position. The student struggled with the attacker and was able to free herself. 
Notre name Security is cur­rently investigating the assault. The suspect is described as a white male in his late 20s or early 30s, approximately 6 '1" with dark hair and a mustache. The man's hair was dirty, straight, and hanging over the ears. 
The student also described the suspect as having approxi­mately one week's growth of facial hair, and muscular arms. He smelled of alcohol and was wearing a black faded t-shirt, unknown color of sweatpants, and dirty white tennis shoes. 
The student does not know the suspect and had never seen him before. The man fled in an undetermined direction follow­ing the assault. 
Security is looking for any in­formation regarding the attack, according to Chuck Hurley, as­sistant director of University Security. 
"If anyone observed this sus­pect before or after the assault and can provide any detailed information, please contact Notre Dame Security," Hurley said. 
The student was not seriously injured as a result of the as­sault. The rector of the dorm in which the student resides notified Security about the attack. 
ing further ones. 

South Bend has also been ap­proached by a minor league ice hockey franchise, an addition which could bolster the City as a major sports market. Kernan is currently putting together a citizen committee to examine where the team would be lo­cated, its operating costs, and its foreseeable benefits. 
Further economic growth has been seen in the Blackthorn development, a privately-man­aged public golf course sur­rounded by office sites. While Waite opposes the project, Ker­nan contends that it has added 3,000 new jobs and $25 million 
see KERNAN I page 6 
ignored the problem of crime, and has 
even gone so far as to say his opponent 
has yet to admit the issue is a problem . 
He claims Kernan blames the lifestyles 
of crime victims for their fates. 
Kernan says that he has taken mea­
sures to address crime, citing the fact 
that 34 officers have been added to 
South Bend's police force since 1991, 
and that the rate of violent crime has 
decreased 19 per cent since last year. 
Financing for the College Football 
Hall of Fame has also been a divisive 
issue. Waite claims that secret con­
tracts have been drawn up between 
friends of the Hall of Fame and corpo­
rate contributors, and have yet to be 
made public. 
Kernan counters by affirming that the public bonds used to construct the Hall of Fame will simply be paid back by . corporate sponsorships and donations, 
without any clandestine agreements. 
Much of the campaign has focused on 
Waite's financial and legal problems, 
including delinquent child support pay­
ments (which were paid in full on 
Wednesday of this week) and his arrest 
involving claims of unpaid bills. Waite 
see CAMPAIGN I page 6 
Republican candidate criticizes incumbent 
By JAMIE HEISLER Assistant News Editor 

Focusing on the issues of crime, reallocation of funds, and government inefficiency, Republican candidate Michael Waite hopes to defeat incum­bent Joseph Kernan in his sec­ond attempt since 1987. Waite actively campaigned for mayor in 1987, but withdrew after the murder of his ex-wife. 
Waite, a 47 year old, attend­ed Indiana University at South Bend and is now President of the High Tech Alarm Corpora­tion Inc. He has not previously 

REPUBLICAN 

MAYOR 
" 

' .
-------·...--­
held public office. 

Concerning the present ad­ministration, Waite sees several 
see WAITE I page 6 



O'Hara: Changes affect students 
By ANDY CABINESS News Writer 

The improvement of gender relations is a significant and difficult change going on in stu­
dent life at Notre Dame, according to V i c e ­President for Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara. 


O'Hara was O'Hara the keynote speaker Thursday at the Presi­dent's Luncheon for Michiana Business Leaders, where she addressed Notre Dame student life in the 1990's. 
"Part of (the problems) we experience reflects the com­plexity of society," said O'Hara, noting that many gender prob­lems at Notre Dame are com­mon to all people of college age. 
O'Hara also said that many of the problems that are more unique to Notre Dame stem from the fact that women have only been admitted into the stu­dent body in the last 23 years. "Some of (the gender problems) come from the fact that at an institution that is 150 years old, 25 years is a relatively short time to fully integrate women." 
Notre Dame's increasing cul­tural diversity is another signif­icant change that O'Hara ad­dressed. Nine years ago, only seven percent of the students were minorities. That figure is now around fifteen percent. "We've been working very hard since then, to put resources into place for both white and minor­ity students. Also we've been really proud of our restructur­ing of our financial aid services to get us to those percentages." 
One hindrance O'Hara sees to cultural diversity is that many groups of minorities are tradi­tionally not Catholic, meaning that they do not benefit from the large amount of spiritual support that the university pro­vides. "The very thing we think of as supports for the rest of our students may not be sup­ports for them." She went on to cite that recently, more steps have been taken to provide more opportunities for non­Catholic minorities. 
A third area in which O'Hara sees increasing changes is in student spiritual development. She pointed out that children raised after the time of Vatican II receive less moral guidance growing up than their parents did. She went on to point out that the university has accepted some of that burden, saying, "What we are about is trying to model for our students a way of life." 
This kind of attitude has pro­duced many unpopular deci­sions that have come from O'Hara's office, but she main­tains that, "for every negative article in The Observer, there are ten times as many positive comments from students." 

page2 Th.e Observer • INSIDE Friday, October 6, 1995 
• INSIDE COLUMN 


Life after
•

cnme 
I saw an interesting . political cartoon recently ~eggy I;enczews~before verdict _ Mike Samt Marys News Edttor 
Tyson, at a press confer--------­ence, saying "Don't worry O.J., there is life after violent crime." 
I am disappointed with the verdict. I laid in bed last night, thinking about this irony: the best group to protest the decision would be passive, battered housewives. I laid in bed thinking that O.J.'s children are probably very happy right now, but may possibly have to deal with questioning whether their father killed their mother for the rest of their lives. I thought about Mike Tyson. 
Mike Tyson was convicted of rape. A jury o his peers convicted him of rape, and sentenced him accordingly. This summer, I got to work under a large poster of him. Viacom and Showtime decided that they were going to sup­port and endorse Mike Tyson's new image. As a Viacom Company, every Blockbuster Video in, at least, Northeast Ohio had to prominently dis­play a poster featuring Mike Tyson as an adver­tisement for his upcoming pay-per-view boxing match. 
Imagine this: three women, busily facilitating the public's need to watch the newest videos, beneath ·a: picture of a convicted rapist which hangs from the ceiling. I wonder how parents explained that to their children as they walked out with their Barney videos. I wonder how the family of Tyson's victim felt when they saw that poster. 
Blockbuster Video purports itself as a family video store: that means no 'adult section,' an enforced NC-17 policy, and a program to make video records of children to be used in the event that they are ever abducted. During the month of August, we carried on business under a poster of a convicted rapist. 
The corporate world will do what is pragmat­ic, not what is right. Mike Tyson made Viacom and Showtime a lot of money with that match. 
What I found most enlightening about the sit­uation this summer was that. although a per­centage of the management staff at Blockbuster disagreed with the poster, no one was willing the challenge it. Those are due Friday before midnight, come again. 
A man can commit one of the most heinous 
crimes against women and can redeem himsel 
through his marketability. And then other 

women are forced to tacitly support this crimi­
nal. 

I don't know how to solve this problem. I did 
quit working at Blockbuster partly because o 
this. I don't want to be associated with a com­
pany that can operate on such a morally bank­
rupt premise. But I was the only employee who 
did. 

Mike Tyson resumed his celebrity status, and 
very few people murmured anything. And he 
was convicted. You work out the implications. 
Frightening, aren't they? 
So here comes O.J. Simpson off of the media 
circus. I don't know if he is guilty or innocent, I 
didn't follow the trial closely at all. I do know 
that his trial was turned it into a trial with 
racial implications and women's violence impli­
cations. I know a lot of people are upset with 
the verdict. 

The American public is infatuated with 
celebrities. They become our role models, they 
make their living off of this infatuation. 
And when they commit crimes, the public is 
quick to forget them. And by forgetting them, 
the crimes are tacitly forgiven, no matter what 
the crime. 

The uiews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TODAY'S STAFF  
News Jamie Heisler Tom Moran  Viewpoint Joseph Crawford  
Sports Andy Cabiness  Production DavidDiaz Allison Fashek  
Graphics Christopher Mullins  Lab Tech David Murphy MikeRuma  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Hurricane Opal leaves destruction in its wake 
damage in 1992. 
"Blocks and blocks of homes are gone," said Jo Miglino, a spokeswoman for the state Division of Emer­gency Management. "We have widespread reports ... of 
Lugar defends gamblers' donation Indiana on the internet 
AUGUSTA. Maine 

Republican presidential hopeful Sen. Dick Lugar on Thursday defended his acceptance of $1,500 from a family that is poised to take over a riverboat casino in his home state of Indiana, despite his criticism of legalized gam­bling. Lugar said his friendship with the patriarch of the family dates back to his tenure as Indianapolis mayor 


two decades ago and called any linkage of the campaign contribution to his views on gambling "a real stretch." Three members of the Pritzker family of Chicago gave Lugar's campaign $500 each on Aug. 31. ''I'm unaware of whether any members of the family have any interest in the development of gambling," Lugar said in an impromptu interview. Lugar has been campaigning heavily in Maine in preparation for a Nov. 4 presidential straw poll sponsored by the state GOP. Lugar has called the nationwide spread of legalized gambling "a measure of the moral erosion taking place in our country." 
Bugs vs. Douglass at Faneuil Hall 
BOSTON 

Nyyyyaaaaaaaah, what's up, Doc? Certainly not a bust of abolitionist Frederick Douglass. Red tape is keeping the statue from being installed at historic Faneuil Hall. But a larger statue has popped up with no problem: Bugs Bunny in bronze. The main difference is in who controls the statues' fates. Both will be installed at Faneuil Hall Marketplace, but Bugs is outdoors on private property, in front of the Warner Brothers Studio Store. The Douglass statue is headed for a spot inside the 253-year-old meet­ing hall, which is owned by the city. The Douglass memorial has been approved by the city Arts Commis­sion. But it lies on its side on a cheap vinyl couch in a storage closet until the artist, Lloyd Lillie, builds a pedestal that meets the specifications of the city Landmarks Commission. It was much simpler to seat the cartoon character in front of Warner Brothers. All the store had to do was get approval from its landlord and a permit from City Hall. 
• INDIANA WEATHER 

Friday, Oct. 6 Accu-Weather'"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
• NATIONAl WEATHER 
The AccuWeather<~~>torecast for noon, Friday, Oct. 6. Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

COLD  WARM  STATIONARY  C 1995 AccuWeather, Inc.  
Prouure  
HIGH  LOW  SHOWERS  RAIN  T-STORMS  FLURRIES  SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  PT. CLOUOY  CLOUC1Y  

Albuquerque 75  42  Dallas  79  49  New Orleans 78  56  
Atlanta  78  60  Denver  75  35  New York  74  64  
Baltimore  76  61  Los Angeles 85  65  Philadelphia 78  65  
Boston  75  60  Miami  88  78  Phoenix  95  66  
Chicago  57  45  Minneapolis 58  39  St. Louis  65  50  
Columbus  84  50  Myrtle Beach 82  71  

many, many homes destroyed." 
Opal lost its punch as it blew through . ·Alabama but still knocked out power to 2 million in Florida, Georgia, Alabama and the Carolinas. Many homes also had no water or phone service. 
Almost 4,500 National Guardsmen were posted in Florida to prevent loot­ing. Bay County. where an estimated 100 homes were destroyed and 1,000 damaged, was under a dusk-to-dawn curfew, and the Guard set up a center to provide food, water. clothes and showers to people left homeless. 
By midday, Opal had been downgrad­ed to a tropical depression and was 95----r·miles south of Lexington, Ky.. with sus­
tained winds of 35 mph. 

As Opal weakened over land, . Tropical Storm Pablo, the 16th named ·storm of the season, formed off the 
African coast in the area of the Atlantic that has bred some of this season's most dangerous storms. 
INDIANAPOLIS 
The state has reached agreement with 19 local groups in the next step toward wiring Indiana to the Internet. Gov. Evan Bayh on Wednesday announced the first round of "community network partners" that will help offer ac­cess to the Internet -and through that, the state's com­puters -through local schools, public libraries and town halls. "With local communities across the state fully in­volved and on board, Hoosiers will be one step closer to bringing a world of information and technology to every school, library and town hall in Indiana," Bayh said. The first 19 local Access Indiana sites include Indianapolis, Fort Wayne, Evansville, Lake County, South Bend and Bloomington. Access Indiana, a partnership of the Indi­ana State Library. the state Department of Education and three telephone companies, is offering $900,000 a year for the next four years to provide startup grants for net­works. 
Pope's play won't be produced 
NEW YORK Pope John Paul II is a huge hit almost everywhere in the Big Apple, but he bombed off Broadway. In fact, a musical version of his play "The Jeweler's Shop " never opened. 
"The producer's check bounced, so we had to cancel all performances,'' said Douglas Williams. administra­tor of St. Clement's Theater. "It's a shame because a lot of people have been calling the box office for tickets." 
The producer of the play, which had been scheduled for a six-week run, couldn't be located for comment. The 151-seat theater is a converted Episcopal church that still holds Sunday services each week. 
"The church tried to help out with the financing, but it turned out the producer didn't have any money at all to put up,'' Williams said. "We had hoped the play would be running while the pope was in town and had scheduled matinees every afternoon of his stay." 
John Paul is visiting New York. New Jersey and Mary­land during a five-day visit that ends Sunday. 
-----------.... 
Friday, October 6, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
Saint Mary's CFAI receives funding 
Grant to foster leadership 
By MAGGIE WALSH 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's Center for Aca­demic Innovation (CFAI) has been awarded a substantial grant from the Fund for the Improvement of Postsecondary Education (FIPSE). The grant, titled "the Collaborative Chal­l~nge: F~rging a Community Commitment to Leadership De­Vtllopment," will distribute $214, 000 to the school over a three-year period. 
CFAI has three major goals for the grant: to establish "models of interaction between faculty and administrators and students that will foster mean­ingful leadership throughout the campus;" to develop models of leadership which are appro­priate to Saint Mary's College and its "identity as a Catholic women's college;" and to "in­form leadership development at· any liberal arts student-cen­tenld environment," according to the grant application. 
The grant will play an aetive role in the school community. The first event funded by the FIPSE is the Fall Leadership Think Tank, Nov. 10-12. This workshop gives student devel­opment pr-ofessionals and fac­ulty the opportunity to discuss shared role as educators, while acknowledging their different backgrounds. The workshop's goal is to help these two groups see the traditions and culture they have in common as Saint Mary's educators and, at the same time, learn about the dif­ferent subcultures each group works in and the special tradi­tions already established within their own communities. While students will not be direct par­ticipants in this activity, they will be a center of discussion for the weekend. 
One of the most important projects sponsored in part by FIPSE this year is the Play of the Mind Conference. The an­nual three-day conference has been at Saint Mary's since 1991. "This year, in particular, FIPSE will have a very direct impact on the planning and preparation," states Teresa Ra­dostits, a member of all three committees involved in the con­ference. In prior years the Leadership Development Committee was the main coor­dinator of the project. This year, the FIPSE Steering Committee takes over the posi­tion. 
According to Associate Dean of Faculty Patrick White, the conference gives students and faculty a chance to discuss intellectual topics in a relaxed and comfortable environment. The conference tries to ensure this by providing fun and excit­ing angles on serious topics which everyone faces during their lives. FIPSE is a "great opportunity to bring intellectual life and activities outside the classroom together. Play of the Mind is an activity which does just that," says Maria Rivas, participant and planner of past and future conferences. 
Enthusiasm for the confer­ence has grown on campus. "It's fun because sometimes we [students] forget that profes­sors have lives outside the classroom. This way we are able to learn more about them," says Teresa Radostits. The committee hopes to main­tain that excitement through the assistance of previous par­ticipants, alumnae and the Sisters of the Holy Cross. 

After the conference is ended, "small groups of facul­ty, student development professionals, and students" will have the opportunity to become a Community Leadership Team (COLT), according to grant specifica­tions. COLTs play a key role in the project, as they make pre­sentations around Saint Mary's and other colleges about how to take more active leadership roles in and around campus, based on conference results. This part of the project will take place primarily during the second and third years of the FIPSE grant. 
Saint Mary's received the FIPSE grant after a year long, two-tiered application process. There were approximately 2,000 original applicants which were narrowed to about 200. After reviewing a more exten­sive application, 20 schools were chosen to receive grants. The money from the grant pro­vides 84% of the necessary funds. The other 16% comes from the college itself. 
Saint Mary's was chosen be­cause it was admired for the leadership provided by and for its faculty and students. FIPSE also admired Saint Mary's con­sistent efforts in striving to cre­ate a true community. Other activities supported by the FIPSE grant include connect luncheons, spring workshops, evaluation and administration costs. 

4 Goon REASONS To CALL THE HuDDLE FoR DELIVERY 




r----------,
$5 DEAL I
I I 
Any Large 14" Pizza Only $5 
I I
The Best Pizza at the Best Price Calll-6902
I L -1I COUPON EXPIRES 12/16/95


r---------­
$10 DEAL I
I I 
2 Large 14" Unlimited Topping Pizzas
I I
and a 2-liter Coke Product Only $10 Calll-6902
I I 
L COUPON EXPIRES 12/16/95 
..I 


r----------,
$4 DEAL
I I 
Large 14" Cheese Pizza Only $4 
I I
Now, That's a Deal! Calll-6902
I -1I COUPON EXPIRES 12/16/95


1----------­
DOUBLE DEAL
I I 
You get 2 Large 14" 1 item 
I I
Pizzas for Only $9 Call 1-6902 
I I 
L COUPON EXPIRES 12/16/95 
..I 

CALL THE HUDDLE AT 1-6902 
We'll meet or beat any competitors coupon or deal, just call us and ask. We Deliver 7 days a week-lunch, dinner and late nite. 
page4 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 6, 1995 

® We'll jet you to yourchoice of one of the three

1-800-COLLECT 
"Great Games"...FREE! 
That's right, 25 lucky entries will be randomly 
drawn to win a trip for two to the "Great 
Game" of your choice-the Federal Express 
Orange Bowl in Miami, the Nokia Sugar Bowl 
in New Orleans, or the Tostitos Fiesta Bowl in Phoenix-including airfare, hotel and great 
seats at the game! So, enter now and win a 
FREE trip for you and a friend from 

1-800-COLLECT. 
What do you have to do 
for such aGreat Trip? 
Simply answer the question "Why should you use 1-800-COLLECT?", complete the other information, cut it out, send it in to be received by November 6, 1995, and you'll be entered in the random drawing. It's that simple. And don't forget when you make collect calls, 1-800-COLLECT is a great way to save! 
U.S. Residents. Void where prohibited. Entries must be received by 11/6/95. Limit 1 entry per envelope. For complete rules, by which entrants are bound, send stamped, self-addressed envelope to: 1·800-COLLECT, P.O. Box 4645, Blair, NE 68009. WA residents need not affix postage to return envelope. 

,-----------------------------------------------------, 
Just fill in your answer. .. Cut it out and send to the address below, to be received by 11/6195. 
Why should you use 1-800-COLLECT? 1-800-COLLECT/Great Games Sweepstakes PO Box 4626, Blair, NE 68009 
c'o 
0 
0 
0 
''PLEASE PRINT 
0 
'' 
_ NAME AREA CODE PHONE 
WIN DNI Of 
ADDRESS 


25 FRH TRIPS! :
I c0 L ICITY STATE ZIP 
L-----------------------------------------------------~ 



page 5

Friday, Octber 6, I995 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


1995-96 




BASKETBALL 

SEE THE IRISH TAKE ON THE NATION'S BEST I 
I I 


UCONN  GEORGETOWN  ST. JOHN'S  MIAMI  
Preseason No. 5  Preseason No. 3  Preseason No. 15  '95 NIT Participant  
'95 NCAA Elite 8 Participant  '95 NCAA Sweet 16 Participant  '95 NIT Participant  


PITTSBURGH RUTGERS PROVIDENCE 
STUDENT TICKET DISTRIBUTION SCHEDULE 
Seniors .................... Tuesday ................... Oct. 10 .................. 8:00 a.m.-5:00p.m. Juniors ..................... Wednesday ............. Oct. 11 ................ 8:00 a.m.-12:30 p.m. Law/Grad ................. Wednesday ............. Oct. 11 ................ 12:30 p.m.-5:00 p.m. Sophomores ............ Thursday ................. Oct. 12 ................ 8:00 a.m.-12:30 p.m. Freshmen ................ Thursday ................. Oct. 12 ................ 12:30 p.m.-5:00p.m. 
STUDENT ISSUE AT GATE 10-JOYCE CENTER 
Please Note: If you choose to stand in line prior to your issue time, you may not hold spaces for classmates. Aperson must be in line for every four tickets to be purchased. 
1995-96 MEN'S BASKETBALL SCHEDULE 
Nov. 9.................... Australian National Nov. 20 .................... Athletes in Action Nov. 25 ..................................... Akron* Dec. 6............................... Connecticut Dec. 20 ..................................... UCLA* Dec. 28 .............................. San Diego* Dec. 30 ................. Loyola Marymount* Jan. 15 ............................ Georgetown 
Jan. 20 ................................... Rutgers Jan. 27 ........................... West Virginia Feb. 11 ................................ St. John's Feb. 13 ................................ Pittsburgh Feb. 21 .............................. Providence Feb. 24 ............................... Seton Hall Feb. 28 ...................................... Miami 
*Games omitted from student package because of Thanksgiving and Christmas breaks are indicated by an asterisk (*) in the schedule. 

page6 The Observer • NEWS Friday, October 6, 1995 

Cam.paign 
continued from page 1 
claims the arrest was a politi­cal maneuver orchestrated by Kernan and the St. Joseph County Sheriff. Kernan denies any involvement. 
The candidates are also split on the issue of the option tax. Kernan supports the measure, which he says will provide property tax relief and con­tribute to capital improve­ments. Waite opposes any additional taxes. 
Another issue of contention is that of a proposed minor league ice hockey team for South Bend. The city has been approached by a franchise, for which Kernan is assembling a citizen committee to examine the costs and benefits. Waite opposes the establishment of a S-outh Bend hockey team on the grounds that stadium financing would divert funds from areas more deserving of city revenue. 
These issues will be further deliberated in a debate between both candidates on October 19. 

Kernan 
continued from page 1 
in investment to the South Bend area in the last three years. 
"When Waite says he opposes Blackthorn, he is saying he op­poses jobs in the community," says Kernan. 
Another economic measure that Kernan favors is the option tax, an income tax on people who live and work in St. Joseph County. Kernan says the mea­sure provides opportunities for some property tax relief for homeowners and provides ad­ditional revenue needed for capital improvements. 
The major issue in this year's campaign seems to be that of crime, an issue Kernan calls "the most significant challenge we face in the community." 
Kernan states that some progress has been made in ad­dressing some areas of crime, but other areas are lacking. Since 1991, South Bend has added 34 officers to its police force. 
Kernan notes that violent crime have dropped 19 per cent since last year.On the downside, South Bend has seen its murder total for this year reach 21, a city record. 
Kernan says efforts are un­derway to reallocate police de­partment resources. Realloca­tion would involve cooperating with other agencies, such as social services and neighbors' associations, to address the root causes of crime. 
Some have speculated that Kernan is a possible nominee for lieutenant governor in 1996. But Kernan says he has no such aspirations. 

Waite 
continued from page 1 
problems which he intends to correct if elected, the most im­portant of which is crime. ''I'm very much against crime. I feel Kernan has ignored the crime problem, and has yet to admit a crime problem," he said. "Crime is due to the local gov­ernment not addressing the is­sue when it first started to escalate." 
Waite proposes spending more on the police department including a restructuring of the department and an increase in the number of police officers in order to prevent crime. He claims that this could be ac­complished through other means than an increase in taxes such as the one that Ker­nan supports in the form of the option tax. 
He also sees the need for higher paying jobs in the com­munity which do not presently exist because South Bend em­ploys more people in the ser­vice sector than the manufac­turing sector. This is a fact he blames on the choices made by the South Bend government in the planning of the city. 
Waite has several other com­plaints concerning the Kernan administration including its backing of the proposed ice hockey stadium that will be constructed if South Bend re­ceives a minor league fran­chise. He believes that the funds for the stadium could be appropriated for much more useful purposes. 
Another problematic factor he sees is that the new stadium will create competition with the other stadiums, including the Notre Dame Joyce Athletic Con­vocation Center. "If people want to watch hockey they can go see the Notre Dame hockey team," he said. 
While Waite feels the need for a "working relationship" with Notre Dame, he also believes that the city needs to focus more attention on the neighborhoods that do not sur­round Notre Dame. "The streets into Notre Dame are nicely paved" and the same attention has to be given other rest of the city which has been neglected by the present administration, according to Waite. 
Waite has faced several chal­lenges in his personal life re­cently, including charges con­cerning back child support pay­ments for his five children and an arrest for a claims of unpaid debts, but he feels they should have no impact on his cam­paign. 
Waite was charged with ow­ing $9,455 in back child sup­port payments, which were paid in full on October 4. Waite claims that he had stopped making the payments when his ex-wife put the money toward things other than the children. He continued to provide the children with necessary items such as clothing and shoes, but those items are classified as gifts under the child support system and do not count to­wards those payments. 
Waite feels the voters will un­derstand because "there are a lot of fathers and mothers in my condition." 
Waite was also arrested in May of this year for $4,445 in unpaid bills, but was released. At the time Waite claimed that it was a political move by Kernan to discredit Waite before the voters. 
Waite would like less focus to be placed on his personal life, however, and more focused on his platform and intentions. He states, "I want to lead this city into the 21st century." 

EARN CASH by DONATING 
You could earn: 
$30°0aHer your first plasma donation! 
$1500  if you donate alone (first visit)  
+$  soo  if you show college I.D. (first visit)  
+$1 000  per person ~you recruit someone and they donate  

$30°0 TOTAL! Help Us Save Lives 
Must be 18 years old; proof of current address with photo I. D. 
COME TO: AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL 515 LINCOLNWAY WEST SOUTH BEND, IN 46601-1117 
HOURS: 
M-F: 9-6 SAT: 8-5 234-6010 


[;){~W[]ill? ~~ 
HOURS: Monday· Thursday 7 am to 10 pm • Friday 7 am to 8 pm • Saturday 9 am to 7 pm • Sunday 9 am to s pm 

21 Tans 
For $2 
NOTRE DAME 277-1166 
W-· d,_,ce hum N.D. 
M&srO.I80fokMr.O...per~
L Naot_.....,...,OChwoi'IKEKPrieti11-1He 
..J 

Pope off_ers mass at 
Giants Stadium 
By DAVID BRIGGS Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 
Pope John Paul II implored the United Nations to overcome extreme nationalism and wipe 
away the "tears of the century," t h e n brought his message of h o p e Thursday to tens of thou­

sands of fol-John Paul II lowers at a football stadium. 
Despite hours of steady rain, more than 80,000 p_eople showed up at Giants Stadium, many standing in rain slickers and all waving or cheering as the pontiff slowly circled the field in his popemobile. 
"This is the most important day of my life. I cannot describe to you how important it is to be here," 76-year-old Edward Pietro of Toms River said. "After today, if nothing else exciting or wonderful happens in my life, I will die a fulfilled man." 
Earlier Thursday, the pope urged the United Nations to be an authentic force for peace. 
"The United Nations Organi­zation needs to rise more and more above the cold status of an administrative institution and to become a moral center where all the nations of the world feel at home," he told the 185-member General Assem­bly. 
The pope's visit during the United Nations' 50th anniver­sary year was the central point of his fourth pilgrimage to the United States. The organization is deeply in debt, in part be­cause of its expanded peace­keeping operations in Bosnia and elsewhere, and John Paul wants to see its strengthened. 
But that meeting like the other events since the pope's arrival Wednesday was for a small group of dignitaries and invited guests. It was here in Giants Stadium that masses of the faithful could see the man many believe is the vicar of Christ on Earth. 
Among them was Donna Tel­licano, who suffers from multi­ple sclerosis and uses a wheel­chair. She came hoping that the pope would touch her and miraculously cure her. 
"I believe in miracles," she said. 
Andrew DiDomenico, a 24­year-old bagel baker from Clifton, came because "God wanted me to be here." 
"I was here in the rain for quite a few Grateful Dead shows. I was here for that, I should be here for this," he said. 
Members of the 500-voice choir stood outside in the driv­ing rain, insisting they were in good spirits. 

Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Obseruer staff. 
Savings Worth Studying 
Any student can get a great haircut from licensed. professionol ,:\·lists at evernkw k'w pnces. And you never need an appointment. Stop in at our convftiient mallloc,\ticm. At Mastert::uts we trim prices. not quality. We carry: Regis, Paul Mitchell, Biolage, Nexxus, VaVoom and KMS. 
MasterCuts 
family haircutters 


0/oOFF 
All Salon Services and Haircare Products 
Reg. $8.95 R8GIS H€~US ""'-'-""'D·!0\1 ~ 
MasterCuts 

University Park Mall 277-3770 
-------........-------~------------------~-~-­
Friday, October 6, 1995 The Observer • NEWS 
Officially Licens 
otre Dame Product! 
Enjoy Notre Dame Football on CO-Rom! 
GET 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL 
The Complete CD-ROM Experience! 
•Video, 
Photos, Stats, and much more. 

•Original 
Interviews 

•Portion 
from each purchase donated 


to the ARA PARSEGHIAN MEDICAL RESEARCH FOIJNDATION 
•Created &Produced by NO alumni 
Makes A Great Christmas Gift 
RUNS ON MAC AND WINDOWS! 
1-800-333-4003 
Also Available at the Notre Dame Bookstore & the Varsity Shop in the Joyce Center Free ND Mouse Pad Included 
Only $39.95 +4.95s&h 
Mastercard and Visa Accepted 
--------~-~------------~­
page 7 

Miller: Biology provides clue to malaria strength 
By SARAH TAYLOR 
News Writer 
In the second of his two-part lecture series on the subject of malaria, Dr. Louis Miller, chief of parasitic disease research at the National Institutes of Health in the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, addressed the jour­ney of malaria parasite pro­teins from the liver to their invasion of red blood cells. 
Miller first described how the parasite proteins attach to the epithelium of blood vessel walls. 
When the protein encounters erythrocytes, or red blood cells, it is pulled into a vac­uole, not into the cell itself. "This little organism causes the cell to bend in two," stated Miller. 
Miller would like to discover what triggers the erythrocyte to form its vacuole when it senses the presence of an invading parasitic malaria protein. 
Recycle 
the Obseruer 
The human Duffy blood group antigen is the receptor on red blood cells to which the malaria protein binds. 
Humans can either be Duffy­posil!ve or Duffy-negative. The protein cannot bind to a Duffy­negative erythrocyte. 
Africans are Duffy-negative, which explains their increased resistance to the malaria dis­ease. Miller wonders, "What role might this play in the physiology of Africans?" 
The disease is quite preva­lent in Africa because its tropi­cal climate is conducive to the abundance of mosquitoes, the primary vector of malaria. 
The Duffy antigen is a mem­ber of the Chemokine Super­family. 
According to Miller, "Chemokines are the things that activate lymphocytes, macrophages, and the like in response to invading anti­gens." 
Malaria is so abundant be­cause its parasitic proteins mutate quickly and often. 
They alter themselves to avoid the binding of the ery­throcytes' lethal antibodies. 
The red blood cells must continuously develop new anti­bodies to combat the mutated malaria proteins, but the time required to do so allows the parasitic proteins to enter the cells and begin replication. 
As a conservative estimate, there are 300-600 million cases worldwide of clinical malaria per year. Of these cases, approximately 1-2 mil­lion are fatal. 

Happy l8tih Birthday9 
Josh~ 
We lo"e you! 

Mom, George, Granny, Grandpa, Magic, and Athena 
CLASS SERVICE PROJECTS 
FALL BREAK EXPERIENCE WITH POTOWATOMI INDIANS 
OCTOBER 16-OCTOBER 19 
·ASSIST WITH HOUSING RENOVATION ·WILL CONCLUDE WITH POW WOW CELEBRATION 
FINAL INFORMATION MEETING 
WEDNESDAY OCTOBER 11, 1995 7:00PM 
IF INTERESTED, CALL PETE A.S.A.P. AT 634-2306 OR SR. CLASS OFFICE AT 631-5136 

page 8 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 6, 1995 

'lS 
POW~~ 
9vfu[ticu[turaf 'E~ecutive Council 
MULTI CULTURAL FHLL FESTIUHL 
CULTURE ON THE QUAD 
October 2-6 Fieldhouse Mall 4:30-6:00 p.m. Performances By: Native American 
Club Hawaiian Club Greek Club Filipino Club 
TroopND 

Fireside Chats 
October 2-6 .. Women in the Rrts .. Notre Dame Room, LaFortune 
12:15-1:15 p.m. 
Monday: Professor Lyonga Tuesday: Professor Alice Cheang Wednesday: Sonya Gernes Thursday: Diana Mythyus Friday: Jill 6odmillow 
TASTE OF NATIONS 
Friday, October 6 
8:00 p.m. Stepan Center 
Entertainment by Sabor Latino 
SPECIAL 
EUENTS 

October3 102 DeBartolo 7:00p.m. Eun-Sook Lee 
October 5 BallRoom 7:00p.m. John Ole Tome 

Friday, October 6, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 9 
National day focuses attention on depression 
NDMDAs goal 
ts awareness 
By LAURA SMITH 
News Writer 
National Depression Screen­ing Day allows people nation­wide to receive information on an issue that has an extensive impact on society, according to Dr. Mary DePauw, Director of Saint Mary's College Counseling and Career Development. 
In her lecture Thursday enti­tled "Women and Depression," DePauw emphasized the preva­lence of depression in women. "Throughout their lifetimes. over 21 percent of women will experience an episode of depression serious enough to interfere with their life," she said to the crowd of about thirty female students and faculty. 
Discussing women and de­pression is consistent with the Saint Mary's College Mission Statement. "Saint Mary's women are encouraged to make a difference in the world," said DePauw. "A better understanding of the reality of depression allows Saint Mary's women to help themselves or others." 
Wearing a pin that read "De­pression: It's an Illness, Not a Weakness," DePauw defined depression as a cluster of symp­toms. These symptoms include: a persistent sad or empty mood, feelings of hopelessness or guilt, insomnia, and a loss of interest in activities that were once enjoyed. Weight gain or loss, fatigue, thoughts of sui­cide, irritability, difficulty con­centrating, and physical symp­toms such as headaches and digestive disorders are other symptoms. 
The persistent occurrence of five or more of these symptoms indicates the possibility of clini­cal depression. But, according to DePauw, there is hope. 
"Depression is amenable to treatment and help is avail­able," DePauw said. "Proper treatment can lead to a happy and healthy life. But unfortu­nately, only one-third of de­pressed people seek help." 
Seeking help is very impor­tant because the results of un­treated depression are devastating. One-half of all sui­cides are committed by people experiencing depression. "If these people had received treatment," said DePauw, "their lives could have been saved." 
According to a study by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the annual cost of treatment for depression in the United States is $43 billion. Treatment of depression in­cludes medication and counsel­ing. "It's important to receive treatment when a nutrition, sleep, and exercise plan fails to reduce stress, one is no longer able to function, or one can no longer tolerate one's feelings," said DePauw. 
Support groups can add to 

treatment for depression. In 1986, a group of people suffer­ing from depression began the National Depressive and Manic­Depressive Association. It is the only group in the world founded and run by people with depression. 
DePauw is a member of the NDMDA and showed the film "Everyone Needs a Hand To Hold On To" from the NDMDA National Convention. The film's theme can be summed up in its statement, "A life can be saved if a helping hand is offered". 
The goal of NDMDA is to re­store a high quality of life to people suffering from depres­sion. The members hope to change attitudes and increase awareness of depression. "We are not going to hide," said one member, "We are going to change the stereotypes associ­ated with depression". 
The NDMDA operates at al­most no cost. Interested people can call 1-800-826-3632 to re­ceive information about local chapters. Currently, 250 chap­ters exist worldwide. DePauw stressed the relevance of the issue for Saint Mary's students. "Individuals who have inherited a disposition to depression or mania often experience the first episode between the ages of 17 and 22," she said. 
An· afternoon depression screening followed DePauw's lecture. Those who attended the screening heard a brief talk on the causes. symptoms. and treatments for depression fol­lowed by an informational video. Individuals then com­pleted an anonymous written screening test for depression and had the opportunity to dis­cuss the results with a staff counselor. 
DePauw hopes National De­pression Screening Day helped to educate students about de­pression. "We want our stu­dents to make good decisions," she said. "Hopefully, our stu­dents will get the message to take control of their own lives." 

Wildfires blaze in parts of Northern California 
By RICHARD COLE 
Associated Press 
INVERNESS, Calif. 
More homes were evacuated today as firefighters battled fu­riously to protect 400 houses from a wind-whipped wildfire that raced across 9,500 dust­dry acres. 
Aided by calmer winds, fire­fighters had the blaze 60 per­cent contained this morning, said Eric Neitzel of the Marin County Fire Dnpartment. But at one point, flying embers ignited some four acres of grass near a street in Inverness, a commu­nity of about 1,000. An un­known number of residents were evacuated, Neitzel said. 
They follownd the more than 200 people who by Wednesday abandoned homes in the near­by Paradise Ranch Estates development. where fire de­stroyed at least 4 7 buildings and damaged another 12, most of them houses. 
No serious injuries were re­ported, although four firefight­ers suffered from smoke in­halation. 
The wildfire was the largest of about a dozen raging today in Northern California, where vegetation that thrived on heavy winter rains has dried to tinder. The other fires burned more than 2,400 acres. 
The fire around Inverness was not expected to be con­tained until midnight Saturday, said Carlin Finke, a Marin Fire Department spokesman. 
The fire was devouring pine and dense brush in the 65,000­acre Point Reyes National 
GREAT \VALL 

Voted # 1 Oriental Restaurant 1991, 1992 and 1993! Szechuan· Cantonese· American Chinese Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 Days 
"•• Sunday Duffel Brunch · Every Sunday SB. 9 5 for Adull• S3.95 for ChUdren under 10 
12191272-7176 130 Dlxleway S.llJS Jlln Rostlandlal Randall's Inn. South ll<nd.IN 
~ Iante~ 
GENDER STUDIES ENTHUSIAST 
For 20 hour per week work-study appointment in the Gender Studies Program 
Qualifications: 

•HTML 
Literate for Homepage upkeep 

•Basic 
library research skills for projects related to program development 

•Organizational 
skills for office tasks 


Send letter ofapplication to 104 O'Shag, attention Marie Kramb, by October 13; interviews will be scheduled after break. 
Seashore. 
Flames hot-footed west to­ward the Pacific after midnight Wednesday and firefighters made their first, failed stand on its southern flank. 
Air tankers took off at dawn for a second day today to dump. retardant on the flames and helicopters dumped water scooped from nearby lagoons. Crews used bulldozers to build up a fire break around Inver­ness, and hacked through brush by hand. 
At a Red Cross shelter, re­tired attorney Patricia Sadler said she raced back to her Par­adise Ranch home Tuesday night from San Francisco but could not see it until Wednesday morning. 
"The Bolinas fire department made a stand at my home," she said. "They stood on the roof and they saved it. Everything below me is OK, but everything above me is devastation." 

Sadler, president of the Par­adise Ranch Estates Homeown­ers Association, said 160 fami­lies lived in the development. 
About 1,400 firefighters be­gan battling the flames Tues­day, when sea breezes fanned embers from an illegal camp­fire near Mount Vision, about 35 miles north of San Fran­cisco. 
Chris Collins, Marin County fire prevention officer, said the campfire probably was extin­guished a few days before those sea breezes apparently rekin­dled buried embers. Erratic winds up to 30 mph sent the fire quickly through groves of pines, Collins said. 
California fire 
Wildfire that reached the Pacific Coast Wednesday destroyed more than 40 buildings on Point Reyes peninsula. 


.. · \ · In-Line 
~ 

.:~·skating Clinic 

.... 
Monday, October 9 5:15-6:30 PM Parking Lot South of the Joyce Center 
E ui ment Provided 
Advance Registration at RecSports Required $5.00Fee AllLevels Welcome 
631-6100 
~-~-~ad,--6J,-S~ ,4­
~ ~.,_, •Vintage Levis •Over 40 Styles of Hats ~·• •Urban Outfitters •Belts • Socks • Tights
J 
•Coats/Jackets • Handbags/Purses '1 THE •Handcrafted Beaded •Petites
f STYLE & Silver Jewelry 1912 S. 11th (U.S. 31133) 
2 'h miles north of state Hne 
Hours: 
M-F 1o-8, Sat. 1o-6

Belle Plaza, Niles
Layaway& Open SUn. 12-4
CO., INC. AlteratiOns Available 687-9123 beginning Sept. 1st 

·-·---~.-..,....,......-----------------~--~ 
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Friday, October 6, 1995 


Buffalo is in western NY." validity of the argument to This statement strikes us as 'We applaud the validity of the deliverer. It pretty presumptuous coming would follow, then, that
· Stephanie for 
from a resident of Upstate Stephanie considers herself a New York. taking it up on herself better person by comparison, She then goes on to to voice her opinion, and thus her opinions more describe the "greater reputa­"right." This strikes us not
but we don't under­
tion" of Bard College, as if only as egotistical, but the stereotypes which she is stand why she con­incredibly petty. familiar with invalidate the Regarding the dorm setup,
demns Matt for doing 
experiences of a former stu­we are in total agreement dent. Later in her letter she the same thing ... ' with Matt. We are happy for criticizes Matt for making an Stephanie that she has 

• QUOTE Of THE DAY 
"Life is short. the art long, 

opportunity fleeting, experiment treacherous, judge­ment difficult." 
-Hippocrates 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
John Lucas Managing Editor Bwiness Manager Elizabeth Regan Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Potter Ylewpoint Eci.itor.................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ...................... Jen Mackowiak Sporu Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Galla van Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman ControUer ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, lerters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor /Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
I 

•LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
'Universal' opinions not really universal 
Dear Editor: 

We are writing in response to Stephanie Sinnott's Oct. 2 response to Matt Apple's Sept. 26 artide. There are several inconsistencies which we feel it is only right to point out, as Stephanie felt it was only right that she criti­cize Matt's column. 
She begins by berating Matt for wrongly assuming people aren't familiar with the exact location of Buffalo. "I don't know who you've been talking to, but most people who have even heard of New York would not group Buffalo in with Upstate New York. As we all know, 
observation about NO dorms even though he has "no experience with Notre Dame dorm life." It seems to be a matter of convenience as to whether or not lack of expe­rience disqualifies one from passing judgment. 
We applaud Stephanie for taking it upon herself to voice her opinion, but we don't un­derstand why she condemns Matt for doing the same thing, or why she criticizes The Observer for printing the article, thus risking being transformed into "a forum for complaining about the school's faults." Whatever happened to the First Amendment? 
How is The Observer wrong for printing articles which don't buy into the "Main Street USA" rationale?" It's easy to forget, in Notre Dame's atmosphere, that there are many dif­fering opinions out there, and ignoring them won't make them go away. 
Recommending that Matt become familiar with the inside of a homeless shelter rather than wasting time presenting different view­points not only assumes that he doesn't volun­teer in the community but also implies that the experience of seeing abject poverty would blind a person to the shortcomings of his own 
• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
situation. Or it would at least convince him to keep his opinions to himself lest he run the risk of improving his condition or opening minds to opposing ways of thinking. This logic simply does not flow. 
It's one thing to disagree with Matt's opin­ion, but pulling the debate down to a personal level reduces it to an ''I'm better than you are" argument. 
Using phrases like "people with your atti­tude" and advising him to "quit acting like a high and mighty grad student with nothing better to do than whine" shifts the focus from the 
formed close relationships within her dorm, but we don't feel that her fortune is reason enough to assume that everyone has the same luck. Allowing for more freedom in dorm choice would not rip Stephanie away from her friends, but would allow for a wider range of friendships to devel­op. 
Finally, we would like to address Stephanie's last comment, "You, sir, are in creative writ­ing, so start using your creativity and address something original." 
Well we would like to congratulate Matt for being one of a very small minority who would so publicly address such a taboo issue. And we're sorry, Stephanie, if you felt threatened in any way by his article, but perhaps you should keep in mind that your opinions, whether they be about the location of Buffalo or experiences in the dorm, are hardly univer­sal, and there really is no reason to get upset because things aren't otherwise. 
JOAN SULLNAN 
JOSIE ANADON 
Howard Hall 
Sophomores 
VIEWPOINT
Friday, October 6, 1995 page 11 
• LETIERS TO THE EDITOR 
Perceived attack on GLND/SMC answered 
Dear Editor: 
Brandon William's Inside Column (The Observer, Oct. 3) misses the point. No one in GLND/SMC would deny the Catholic character of Notre Dame, and I doubt if any of its members would want that character to fade. But is deny­ing the right of gay and lesbian students to meet on campus for educational and social purposes, or to post notices or to advertise in The Observer an essential part of "Catholic character"? One would hope not. 
In his talk at Notre Dame last year, Andrew Sullivan pointed out, as have others, that the recent Vatican letters on homosexual persons leave Catholics more openness on the issue than Williams apparently wishes to acknowledge. In fact some Catholic universities have recognized their gay and lesbian student groups without thereby ceasing to be Catholic. Besides, Notre Dame already recognizes a number of student organizations which do not accept various aspects of Catholic teaching. Presumably recog­nition of a student group does not mean that the University Administration positively endorses ahd agre'es 'with all the details of a particular group's views on every issua. Recognition simply indicates that the group is a responsible one that legitimately represents students. How else explain University recognition of a group like Baptist Student Union (to take only one example), a group which by virtue of its religious beliefs 
· certainly rejects the truth of several essential dogmas of Catholic theology? Given these facts, it is clear that when it comes to recognition of GLND/SMC the argument about "Catholic character" is a smoke-screen for other pressures, both outside the Administration and within, which have nothing to do with Catholic moral teaching. Whatever the case, it would cer­tainly be a sorry state of affairs if, as Mr. Williams seems to imagine, the Catholic charac­ter of Notre Dame is so fragile or so based on repressing gays that recognition of a modest gay and lesbian student group would somehow oblit­erate it. If that is what they believe, the Williams and the Notre Dame Administration need to learn a more catholic way of being Catholic. JAMES LODWICK Graduate Student Off-campus 
Dear Editor: 
While reading Brandon Williams' article entitled "The other side of the story," (The Observer, Oct. 3, 1995) I began to wonder if he had been victimized by some sort of rare disorder that caused him to sleep through much of last semester's debate. University offi­cials have not claimed that homosexuality is in any way a violation of Catholic Church teaching. In fact, the new Catechism of the Roman Catholic Church calls its clergy and lay persons to embrace with understanding the homosexual community. The Church maintains that although the Catholic tradition does not condone homosexual activity per se, homosexuality as an orientation is in no way defiant of official Church teachings. What seems to be the issue here is that Williams has made a simple "category mistake" in his distinction between homosexuality as an orientation and homosexual activity. 
Sexual orientation is based upon several factors. Although scien­tists are not yet sure what causes a person to adhere to a particu­lar orientation, they have come to a consensus on what sexual ori­entation means. In short, an individuals' sexual orientation is composed of the romantic and sexual attraction that he or she feels toward a particular gender. Orientation is very much distinct from behavior, which is the acting upon one's orientation. However, Williams seems to believe they are one in the same. This is where he makes a category mistake: he groups homosexual ori­entation with homosexual activity. What it comes down to is a simple error in definition on his part. 
Peer calls for campus compassion 
Dear Editor: 
Brandon Williams' Inside Column "The Other Side of the Story" (Oct. 3) demonstrated just anoth­er example of an insecure heterosexual threatened by an issue of which he apparently has little understanding. 
Yes, Williams, homosexuals do go to school here. They sit next to you in classes and at the dining hall, they play sports and participate in service activities with you. They may be your section mates, the Eucharistic minister at Mass, even your random roommate freshman year. It is people like yourself who apparently aren't secure in you sexuality and thus perceive homosexual students as a threat who prolong the struggle for these students here at the University. 
You state yourself, "although I would contend that few among the student body agree with every position of either the Church or the administration, we come to Notre Dame understanding that its identity is necessarily a Catholic one. With all of the benefits that come with this fact, from the sense of family to the 'Notre Dame spirit,' there also comes some basic beliefs." Few Catholic the­ologians would contend that the Church's stance on homosexuality is as crucial or basic as a belief in say, the true presence of Christ in the Eucharist. Furthermore, examining the Church's doctrine on homosexuals it reveals a call for compassion and acceptance towards those whose innate orien­tation differs from our own. I lament the fact that the University has turned their back on this call to compassion, and I am saddened that students like yourself continue to issue such defenses. Is Georgetown not an unashamedly Catholic school? Yes, and they have a university sponsored gay, lesbian and bisexual group, as do other Catholic schools. . You write, ~What GLND/SMC and the various other groups are asking Notre Dame to do is pick and choose where it abides by the teachings of the Church and Christianity?" Think about the posi­tion of the Pope on the ordination of women in reference to your statement. The Pope recently issued a dictum stating that the idea of women being ordained is too taboo, we shouldn't even dis­cuss it. By your logic, Notre Dame would have to stop "picking and choosing" Catholicism and fol­low word by word the Pope's instructions. The last time I checked, Student Advocates for Inclusive Ministry and the Notre Dame Council on the Ordination of Women were still viable student activi­ties. 
Furthermore, you write, "Notre Dame is being asked to give up a religious conviction that it holds true. Notre Dame is being asked to give up an integral part of its system of beliefs." Too bad Notre Dame has already sacrificed the cherished Catholic values of compassion, respect, _and acceptance through its narrow-minded interpretation of the needs of gay students at Notre Dame. 
Basically, GLND/SMC isn't asking for our money or anything at all that infringes upon your or my life as heterosexual students here. They are merely asking for a place to meet. No one is parading around in drag, men and women are not smooching each other on the quad. Why is this a problem that you are concerned with? It infringes on no part of you life at all. 
The administration and students like Williams, need to learn that "The other side of the story" is about heterosexual students who support our homosexual peers at Notre Dame. There are a lot of us out here who frankly consider ourselves straight but not narrow and are sick of your attitude. 
KARASPAK 
Senior 
Off-campus 

. . 
Dear Editor: Brothers and sisters of the Notre Dame Community. 
I urn a freshman. I am a gay fresh· man. 1 1un a gay freshma'n who is scan~d to death of being here at Notre Dame. Sometimes -no, ·au the time ­I feel as though I am the only gay fresh­man here. If you do too, tako this letter as a confirmation that you are not alone. If you are het{~rosexual, this let· ter applies to you as welL Il' you are of African-Amflrican descent, this applies to you more than anyone. This is a story or liJar and survivaL 
am scared of people ''finding me out," I nm scared of not hnving any friends. I am scared of not being accepted. I am scared that my hetero­sexual roommate would rather I leave than him living with a gay roommatt~. I am human, I only want to survive and be accepted. 
As scared as I am, I don't want to l,eave the Notre Dame community. I 
I agree with Williams that the University of Notre Dame, as a private Catholic institution, has the right to refrain from condon­ing homosexual activity. However, it by no means has the right to blatantly discriminate against homosexual students by refusing GLND/SMC a meeting place on campl).s. Gay and lesbian students at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College look to GLND/SMC as a viable source of support. By refusing to recognize or at least acknowledge the positive work of GLND/SMC, the University dis­credits the affirming role that the group has played in the lives of homosexual and heterosexual students. 
Some facts surrounding what it means to be gay or lesbian may seem shocking to straight members of our campus community. Students who are openly gay or lesbian must deal with these issues every day. For instance, one in five homosexual individuals will at some point be physically attacked because of their sexual orientation. Over 30 percent of gay and lesbians will at some point try to commit suicide over the issue of his or her orientation. Every five and a half hours, one will succeed. Approximately 26 percent of homosexuals unwillingly leave their home at some point because of their families' reaction to their sexuality. Yet, the most disheartening of all, most homosexual youth turn to drugs and alcohol as a source of support. 
Is this where we want our homosexual brothers and sisters to turn? Is this the environment that we want them to live in every day? GLND/SMC serves a dual purpose here on the Notre Dame campus. It makes a concerted effort to provide support for gay and lesbian students while at the same time we work with straight students to end homophobia. Homophobia not only hurts gays and lesbians, but is dangerous to heterosexuals as well. The bigotry and hate that exists towards gays and lesbians on campus would not be tolerated if directed toward any other minority. Why should it be tolerated simply because Notre Dame is a Roman Catholic institution? 
GLND/SMC is not asking the University or its officials to deny the Catholic tradition that serves to make Notre Dame so speciaL However, the great majority of students and faculty who have been overwhelmingly supportive of GLND/SMC are truly what makes Notre Dame so unique. The importance of diversity with regard to sexual orientation must not be denied its rightful place on campus. Without a clear understanding of the differences between orientation and behavior, Williams' argument against the acknowledgement of GLND/SMC based on the grounds of inconsis­tency with the Catholic tradition is moot. 
JASON MATTHEW LYNCH Support Group Chair, GLND/SMC 

Gay freshman expresses feelings of fear and anonymity at ND 
won't allow my fears to deprive me of the best education in America. I have spoken to gay Notre Dame alumni (female and male) and the majority of them had one of the greatest experi­ences of their lives here at Notre Datne. I don't want to let the opportunities of this university pass mfl by. 
I. am writing this to ask "why?". Why is this one of the only universities in the nation to have two conflicting gay/les­bian organizations: GLND/SMC and the university-recognized organization under the Campus Ministry Department? What l am asking is why is the gay community so divided? One would think that gays and lesbians of the Notre Dame community would stand strong and united under last year's repression. At one of the most conservative schools in the country, one would think that the few gay people here would at least unite. Why is this one of the only universities in the coun~ try with gay/lesbian organizations living in fear of posting meeting times and places? Are we afraid of people finding us out? I am. I don't think that's all it is about though; It is subconsciousfear of death. We· are scared of some righteous anti-gay person killing us for the sole reason being that we are gny or lesbian. We are human, we just want to survive. 
We are too scared. All we want to do is survive and he content with who we are. Most of us are too scared to "make a scene." We don't want some large anti-gay guy beating us up, yelling "you stupid fag." If you are African­American, you -can understand. Would you want some large anti-black guy beating you up yelling "you dumb nig· ger." I am sorryabout the language but I'm trying to display the similarities between the 196Qs African~American movement and the 1990s gay move· ment. They're the same: both are. root· ed infear, • survival and freedom. 
I have ·• completel¥' lost my identity. I feel as thol.lgh, son;tetilp,es.J alJl. liying 
. 

like the pre-Civil Rights African­American slaves did (Plessy v. Ferguson days). I live each day in fear, as they did. All I want is to survive. I want to break through the shell of heterosexual society and just be myself. As African· Americans had their identities dictated to them by whites, I feel as though my identity was given to me by a hetero­sexual, anti-gay society. Does there need to be some sort of Proclamation to free gay people at Notre Dame -the entire country -from obvious oppres­sion? We are human, we want to sur· vive. The African-American of the Jim Crow days were also human; they, too, desired only to survive. They were not diseased or "bad" in any sense because they were a different skin color. We are not diseased or "bad" because we have different preferences. We are human, help us to survive and be happy. 
ANONYMOUSF~HMAN 
page 12 
• ACCENT ASKS ••• 
What do you 
like to do •1n 
South Bend? 

"We like to go out to dinner and shop." 
Diane Saba, & Marty 
Dickinson, Freshmen, 
Badin 

"Drink." 
Sarah Quehl, Sophomore, Farley 




"Go to Meijer and feel better about ourselves." 
Chris Flemming, Junior, 
Grace &Francesca 
Pellicceio, Junior, Badin 
"Bridget McGuire's 
filling station." 
Andy Neethe, 
Sophomore, Dillon 
"Is there anything to do in South Bend?" 
Dana Papa, Graduate Student, International Peace House 
"Hang out at Lola's." 
Tasha Smyth, Carole Anne Dominello, Lanie Pilnock, Sophmores, Pangborn 


"I haven't found it yet." 
Cheryllgiri, Freshman, 
Walsh 

--------------------,---:---------­
The Observer• WEEKEND 
By JOEY CRAWFORD 
Assistant Accent Editor 
Deep in the heart of America lies a town famous for its uni­versity. It is dark, it is gloomy, IT IS SOUTH BEND. 
South Bend is the home of 105,942 people. The weather is terrible. The land is extremely flat. There is a not a great deal to look at. What makes matters even worse is the fact that there is not a whole lot to do in this town. Let's face it, South Bend is cer­tainly not a thriving cultural mecca. One has to look long and hard to fmd something exciting or meaningful to do in the town that one Notre Dame student calls, "The armpit of America." 
Sure, a person can drink to their heart's content in South Bend. But the novelty of being able to drink in a dorm room wears thin after time. So students hit the town to find a place to drink. The town offers a variety of bars and pubs. 
After the bars and drinking have been exhausted, students look to put meaning and culture in their life. There are four movie theaters in the immediate area (University Park East, University Park West, Town and Country, and Cinema 10). Movies offer a nice, relatively cheap distraction to the monotony of South Bend life. 



For the adventurous type, the University Park Mall offers an interesting, if not odd, shopping experience. Beware, the mall is inhabited by a strange race of humans not like any other en­countered before. You know the type: long hair, big bangs, dress according to late 80's fashions -maybe even sporting a New Kids on the Block t-shirt. The image sends shivers down the spine. Yes, the mall groupies 
can be frightening, especially since most of them are 
South Bend,not old enough to drive. They blindly wander around the mall, not to shop, 
Indiana

but to find love. As if they know what love is at the age of twelve. 
There are a numerous amount of miniature golfplaces in the area. The list is 
highlighted by Putter's Family Entertainment Center (located in Town and Country Shopping
Center), the home of The
Lazerrunner. Lazerrunner is a laser tag game 
played in an inflatable maze. The 
By MARGEE HUSEMANN 
Associate Viewpoint Editor 
Hark ye readers, and partake in my sage advice. You are living in a world of excitement, in a world of culture, in a world of cows. You are living the world called the Midwest. Take joy in knowing that this world is full of entertainment and inherent thrills. 
Perhaps the greatest opportuni­ty on campus is the Snite Museum. The walls of this building are filled with expressions of great minds and concrete reactions to history. By merely stepping into a gallery, you can enter an entirely new world of abstraction or be pushed into an intense experience of reality. And if you aren't into the Snite for the sake of the art exclusively, you can always play great games like "Count the rep­resentations of the Madonna," "Find the fish in Buhary's Cueva de la Platija ," or "What kind of drugs was Chagall taking?" 
If this great cultural opportunity doesn't appeal to you, the possibil­ities of learning about student expression abound. The Sophomore Literary Festival in the spring semester, reading The Juggler, and imbibing the music and coffee at Acoustic Cafe all offer opportunities to see what your fellow students are thinking and how that manifests itself in their work. 

But even I have moments when I can't find something to do here. So whenever I'm sick of seeing the bricks of PE, I like to go out on the town. You know what that means­·Meijer! The mecca of all off cam­pus activities! 
Being a Midwesterner, I have a Meijer in my own hometown, so, when I go to Meijer, it's like going home. Yes, the sweet smells of the bakery, the enticing pink neon of the Purple Cow, the fine selection of produce--all of them take me to a higher level of being. The long aisles of Meijer offer a wide va­riety of items. All things are possi­ble. MacGuyver would be able to defend the world for centuries in the duct tape section alone. 
Friday, October 6, 1995 
ten minutes spent in the maze can be very exciting and very physical. It gives people the opportunity to shoot others -legally. What a great concept! Laser tag is also an excellent way to vent frustrations that can build up during a hard week of studying. Putter's also boasts one of the few indoor miniature golf places in the area. 
Raceway USA can also be a thrilling place where frustrations can be released. Located on U.S. 31, towards Michigan, customers are given the chance to drive at death-defying speeds on small go­carts, without worrying about being pulled over or causing injuries. Flying around corners to the point where only two tires touch the ground can be quite exhilarating. Both Putter's and Raceway offer a great, if not brief, escape from the worries of acade­mia. 
Some students fmd happiness in road trips. Road trips give stu­dents an excellent opportunity to explore the culture in the world that South Bend is lacking. 
And if none of this sounds excit­ing, there is always the 
TV. 
Life in 

The key to
'-------'living in South 
Bend is patience. There might be a few treasures of entertainment lying out there waiting to be dis­
covered. Sure there might not he 
a lot to do in South Bend, but, 
.. 'll 
We always have Paris." 

But Meijer, clearly the epitome of off campus activities, is not the only thing to do in South Bend. Denny's, home of "Moon over my Hammies" and other such spe­cials, is ideally situated and stock full of concoctions to help keep you awake. Denny's is also one of the only places in town where you can truly study the local color in their natural surroundings. 
Speaking of natural surround­ings, during a breast cancer awareness walk that I participat­ed in last weekend in Michiana, I passed three great parks. As I continued on the walk, I thought, "Wow, wouldn't those he great places to have picnics?" and "Boy am I out of shape." My roomie/fel­low walker and I had never real­ized the world outside of town was really that beautiful. 
Another happy thing happened this year as the College Football Hall of Fame moved from Lebanon, Ohio to South Bend. Now that the great hall is here in South Bend, it can be appreciated by people who actually enjoy foot­ball rather than those rowdies who get kicked out of the park for line jumping. And the thrills don't stop there. Just a few weeks ago, I attended a section event at Beacon Bowling near the airport. It was non stop fun as I threw sev­eral gutter balls--just to scare the pins so they would fall easier for my friends, of course. 
On campus or off campus the opportunities for fun and culture are infinite. Beyond your dorm room or apartment filled with chances to nap and reach towards the heavens through Pearl Jam, Pink Floyd, and prayer, a bustling and exciting South Bend world beckons. Now, while you can still live everyday in your jeans and are here, experience South Bend. 
'I' I 

I I 0 I , 
Friday, October 6, 1995 The Observer• WEEKEND page 13
• 


You know what to wear. Now here's what to buy. 
0

Large piece of jewelry 


Destination Departure Arrival 
Chicago 8:40a.m. 9:25a.m. Seattle 1-0:15 a.m. 12:35 p.m. ... Chicago 8:05a.m. 1:55 p.m. South Bend 2:44 p.m. 3:29 p.~. 
I' I' 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, October 6, 1995 
"" •NFL 
Carolina visits Chicago still searching for first victory 
ByRICKGANO 
AP Sports Writer 
CHICAGO 
Their offensive line has started a total of 37 NFL games. Their quarterback has started one. Roster moves have been plentiful. And a win, tantalizingly close one moment, seems so far away the next. 
This is reality for the Carolina 
Panthers as they wade through their frrst NFL season. 
"We have a plan. We know winning in the NFL just doesn't happen by throwing a bunch of players out on the field. You see it every week, the most talented teams don't always win," says Carolina coach Dom Capers. 
"It takes time to get a feel of trusting guys next to you and working together in a system. It's an ongoing process. We've been competitive in two of our games and not competitive in the other two." 
The Panthers try again Sunday, meet­ing the Chicago Bears in Soldier Field. It will mark the second straight start for quarterback Kerry Collins, the first­round pick who played well last week as Carolina lost 20-13 to Tampa Bay. 
And when Collins looks to his left, he'll see another pair of rookies participating in on-the-job training -guard Frank Garcia and tackle Blake Brockermeyer. 
Last week they all showed signs of promise. For the frrst time, the Panthers didn't yield a sack, quite an accomplish­ment when you consider they gave up 14 in the first three games, including nine against Atlanta in the season open­er. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaForrune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Cenrer. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
HELP ME PLEASE I Need a ride to  NEED BCTKT  I'M DESPERATE for your BC GA's  I need 2 BC ga's. Ryan@273-4791  
NOTICES  University of Miami of Ohio Oct 13 Call Erin 1431  WILL TRADE USC TKT OR PAY$$$  Please call ALISA 271-8346  My parents are coming from  SABOR LATINO  
CALL KELLI X4044  California Dad needs 2 USC GAs  PHOENIX! Need 2-4 NAVY GA's or  Saturday 10/7  
##################  I NEED A RIDE  together. Call Nicole 277-9414  student tix to upgrade call Maria  9pm-11 pm @esc  
-Support the AAA  to TEXAS for fall break  anytime x4678  
Join us at the Fieldhouse Mall  273-5281  TICKET-MART, INC.  Need2 GAs4  Due to circumstances out of its  
TVDAY any1ime b/1 4:3D-6pm  WANTED  USC Call x2B75  Need USC tickets for Texas parents  control, S.L. will not perform at the  
for fun, fun, fun w/good­ Desperately seeking a ride to  GA'S FOR ANY/ALL  coming to NO.  Taste of Nations  
looking non-aggressive people  D.C. area for break. Will pay for  HOME/AWAY NO GAMES.  NEED USC GA'S AND STUD TX  Jeanne x4341  
YES-TODAYIIII  gas. Call x0607, ask for David.  BUY•SELL •TRADE  NICK 232-1726  SABOR LATINO  
##################  (219) 232-0058 -24 HRS.  Need many tickets for USC  
• • SPRING BREAK • *  FOR RENT  I NEED TIXS TO ALL HOME  Looking for 1 USC stud. ticket to convert to GA and 1 BC stud. ticket.  Please call Travis at X2091.  
MAZATLAN, MEXICO  GAMES.272-6306  Please call Todd @ 273-8975  4 sale married stud. tix. call Shun  Driving to/through Madison, WI for  
Best Prices. Best Parties. Organize  HOMES FOR RENT NEAR ND  @273-9241. make an offer.  fall break? please call Jessica at  
& earn free Spring Break Trip  232-2595  NEED TICKETS  x2365  
and/or cash. Call Ron at B00-288­ 2 USC and 2 NAVY G.A.'S  NEED NAVY TIXI  I I NEED USC TICKETS I  
0328  THAT PRETTY PLACE. Bed and  Call Sean x2153  AMY 616-473-2636  student tickets or GA's  
Breakfast Inn has space available  Call Kerri 273-3851  The Days of Our Lives  
UTILE FLOWER HOME DAY­ for football wknds. 5 rooms with pri­ Need 4 USC GAs & 2 BC GAs.  Need 1 stud. tckt. for BC game for  Correspondents are still looking for  
CARE. LOVING, STIMULATIVE  vate baths. Located in Middlebury,  Please call Cheryl x4BB3  my brother w/ 6 toes. Ryan # 1 836  need USC stud. tixl  more soap opera update people. if  
ENVIRONMENT. MOTHER, EDU­ 30 miles from campus. 1-800-41 B­ kim @ 273-9840  you want to see your byline in The  
CATOR. SPECIAL DISCOUNTS.  9487  Wanted: 4 tickets together -any  TRADE: have 2 BC GA. I need 2  Observer, call 634-4220 and ask for  
LICENSED. 284-0708.  home game  USC GAjustin 233-1259  NEED NO-USC TICKETS  Erin and Christina. Please be ready  
One bedroom in house. Utilities and  Wanted: 2 tickets NO-USC  CALL BILL 233·5719  to write 200 words a weeki  
Englishwoman offers quiet accomo­ laundry facilities, and kitchen privi­ Call 1-B00-922-BEAR day  Need 2 USC tix­ 
dation near campus for ND/SMC visitors. Phone (210)631-6072 day­ leges. Close to campus. $250/mo. Female preferred. Call Paul 232­ 1-502-354-8826 collect in evening  Have 2 BC or 2 Navy GAs to trade Also have $$$$  PERSONAL  Amy Weiher-Hey baby, I wanted to wish you a Happy Anniversary! I  
time, (219)273-1751 evenings.  2794.  Need 1-2 tix to SC game.  Call Sara x4096  wish I could be there with you to  
Mel x12B6  ##################  celebrate. Only 5 more days! I love  
ILOST&FOUNDI  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  NEED B.C. Ticket -G.A. or S.A.  Need USC tickets (GA and stud) SO I CAN PAY OFF DEBT -RIDE  -Support the AAA Join us at the Fieldhouse Mall  you!-Pat  
ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE  Please call Anne 634-3445.  BACK. If you can help call Keith at  TODAY anytime b/t 4:30-Spm  
Found: A pair of brown clogs  TO CAMPUS. CALL 272-6194 AM  3482.  for fun, fun, fun w/good­ CHRIS' MINIATURE PONY RIDE  
in 1707 T. Creek East #7.  OR 232-9620 PM  NEED 3 NAVY G.A.'S. HAVE  looking peaceful people  SERVICE x4010  
They have been in our apartment a  & ASK FOR SANDY.  TWO STUD. USC TIX TO TRADE  I NEED GA'S MEGAN X3B90  YES-TODAY!!!!  
long time and your feet must  OR UPGRADE. CALL NICOLE  ##################  Accept VISA, MC, & SEX.  
be cold and bleeding. Call 273-2858 to retrieve your shoes!  FOR SALE  X4905  Need 2 B.C. GA's call Greg:273-8629  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  ··complimentary rectal exam w/ first ride••  
HELP! Need USC tickets, will pay  Lafortune Student Center  (MENTION THIS AD WHEN YOU  
FOUND: gold ring with features. In  Tired of the cluster? Gateway 2000  lots,call Michelle,634-2497  Need 1 USC Ticket Student or  We're open for your convenience! II  CALL ME TO RECEIVE YOUR  
parking lot next to Infirmary between Stanford and St. Michaels  DOS/Windows PC, some software, draft printer $575. x1-7638.  ••••••••••pLEASE HELPt•••••••••••  GA. Call Anne x4B96.  Mon-Thur: 7:30am -Midnight Fri.: 7:30am-7:00pm  FREE HOT LUNCH 1111)  
Laundry. Last week in August. Call  •NEED 1 NAVY GAt•  CA family needs 3 BC GAs.  Sat.: Noon -6:00pm  
x4205 to describe and claim.  Yamaha 400 Speciaiii,MINT-$650,  ·cALL COLLEEN AT X2191•  Please!  Sun.: Noon-Midnight  Maybe you'll be out there on that  
RCA 20" Colortrack-$175, Prince  Call Clara x4B26  (closed home football Saturdays)  road somewhere,  
LOST: Gold necklace with a  Synergy Tennis Raquet-$80,  CALIFORNIA GIRLS NEED  some bus or train travelling along,  
round, multi-colored glass pendant.  Kickboxing/Sparring gear-$80.  2 USC TICKETS  $$ PLEASE HELP $$  0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0  and in a motel room they'll be a  
Please call Uyen @  234-1840.  GA'S OR STUDENT  • '94 ND ALUM NEEDS  QUALITY COPIES, QUICKL Yl!!  radio playing  
273-3174.  CALLX20B9  BC & USC STUD OR GA TIX  THE COPY SHOP  and you'll hear me sing this song,  
ASK FOR PETE  CALL 516-326-2659  LaFortune Student Center  and when you do you'll know I'm  
WANTED  For Sale: 1989 Acura IntegraLS Air Cond., Sunroof, AM/ FM Tape,  NEED 4 USC GAs Katie 4015  4 USC Tickets for Sale.  Phone 631-COPY 0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0  thinking of you and all the miles in between, and  
Good Condition. $5,800 neg.  Caii4-4B31.  I'm just calling one last time, not to  
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT ­Students Needed! Fishing Industry.  Call Betsy at 4-3229.........................  Desperately need two USC GA's and will pay big bucks. Call 284­ Need 2 BC GA's!  Happy Birthday Heidi Mo.  change your mind, just to say I missyou baby, good  
Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per  5022.  Will trade 2 Navy GA's.  I miss you! I III  luck, good bye  
month. Room and Board!  !@#$#"%."&%#@ @#$$%  Ryan x-1382  Bobby Jean  
Transportation! Male or Female. No  If you like BASS, you'll like this  Need 2 USC GA's  
experience necessary. Call  150watt 15"  Will Pay For Them  Dante, Crack, Shimmy, & Flag Boy  Anyone studied abroad not through  
(206)545-4155 ext A55841  SUBWOOFER  Call Rusty x-0993  I HAVE 4 NAVY GA'S AND I AM  Thanks for a great weekend!!  NO, call Aaron@ 219-586-3365, I  
Caii4-166B  LOOKING FOR USC GA'S OR  love Hitch & Mr. Bear  have ?'s  
....  * * • FREE TRIPS & CASH • • • Find out how hundreds of students  #@$%&".(()"&"%#$#$  I need tickets for BC, USC, and Navy. Please call Bryan.  USC STUDENT TICKETS. If you have USC tix, call  PARADINEPARADINEPARADINE  Admiral.  
are already earning FREE TRIPS  272-4249  Tom atx3B93  Yes, Captain  
and LOTS OF CASH with  1993 Tercel, 2 door, stick, AC,  Here is the classified you requested  I think we've got something, sir. The  
America's #1 Spring Break compa­ AM/FM tape, 24,000 miles.  USC std tx 4 sale  so now you can die happy.  report is only a fragment from a  
ny! Sell only 15 trips and travel !reel  $8,600.00 Caii2B7-0146  #3959  probe droid in the Hoth system, but  
Choose Cancun, Bahamas,  HELP! HELP! HELP! HELP!  Paradise with Paradine, you know  it's the best lead we've had.  
Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL NOW!  Spring Break Bahamas Party  NEEDED! USC or BC STU. TIX  I NEED USC AND BC TIX  how it is.  We have thousands of probe droids  
TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAV·  Cruise! Early Specials! 7 Days  Please call Justin@x1B11  as many as possible,  searching the galaxy. I want proof,  
EL (800)95-BREAK!  $2791 Includes 15 Meals & 6  students or GAs  PARADINEPARADINEPARADINE  not leads!  
Parties! Great Beaches/Nightlife!  Need 4 USC GAs  please call NORM @ 232-2955  The visuals indicate life readings.  
AIDE TO BOSTON AREA NEED­ED-two guys need ride there and  Prices Increase 11/21 & 121151 Spring Break Travel 1-800-678­ Call Chad at X33B4  Thanks for your Support! ......................................  "Do you ever get that stinging sen­sation ... ?"  It could mean anything. If we fol­lowed every lead ...  
back for fall break. Will split  6386  USCGA's  But, sir, the Hoth system is sup­ 
gas/tolls/driving. Prefer to return for  Best offer x2450  Need Tickets For Army.  HEY YOU! Buy my USC ticket  posed to be devoid of human forms.  
USC game. Call Tom x1173 or  Spring Break! Panama City! Early  Call Jay at 4-1787.  before O.J. does. Caii1-4B72.  You found something?  
Marty x3419  Specials! B Days Oceanview Room  BC BC BC BC BC  Yes, my lord.  
With Kitchen $1291 Walk To Best  Be GAs needed badly call Maureen  I have the USC tickets you need.  That's it. The Rebels are there.  
Ride ­Boston to South Bend for  Bars! Key West $259! Cocoa Beach  at 284-5271  call Gretchen@ 284-5166 with your  HELP I  My lord, there are so many  
desperate Law Student, 10/21 or  Hilton $1691 Prices Increase 11/21  BC BC OC BC BC  offer.  I need a ride to North NJ for Oct  uncharted settlements. It could be  
10/22. Call Jay at 634-4219.  & 1211511-800-678-6386  break.Will pay $$$  smugglers, it could be ...  
Need USC stud. tix Call Doug  ••need 5 navy GA's••  Call Lara x2550  That is the system. And I'm sure  
Seeking in home child care for an  Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break  x1B35  Please call Kristy at x2270  Skywalker is with them. Set your  
adorable baby. 1-4 days/wk  Specials! 111% Lowest Price  course for the Hoth system.  
M-Th. 631-6561.  Guarantee! 7 Nights Air From South  I NEED BC & USC GA'S  ND ALUM NEEDS 2 OR 4 TICK­ @@@@@@@@@@@@@@@  General Veers, prepare you men.  
Bend & Hotel From $419! Book  CALL 288-2877  ETS TO BC GAME OCT. 28. CALL  @  
HELP WANTED addressing  Early! Save $100 On Food/Drinks!  COLLECT (810)269-9022 OR JEN­ @  APPLES IN THE NAY NAY:  
envelopes. Work at your residence  Spring Break Travei1-800-67B­ Wanted: 5 tickets to the Navy  NYMIKE@AOL.COM  @ Notre Dame Student Players  Happy 1 yr. anniv. I Love  
in your spare time. $250+/week  63B6  game. Either GA's or Students. Am  @  You very much (but still hope the  
possible! (31 0)804-5587 24 hrs.  willling to pay $$$$. Call Brian at  $$  @ AUDITIONS!AUDITIONSI  cowboys lose sun.:) me ...  
Part-time writer/editor with 2 kids  TICKETS  x3061.  Need So. Cal Tickets Call (717)961-3708  @ for the· play @ Memorial -about Vietnam  Kiddo,  
(ages: 3,8) needs creative, ener­ Need one GA for Boston College.  @  Hope all of these are making  
getic, child-care person who's good  I have 2 Army tickets for sale!!  Willing to pay $$$$$$. Call Julie at  BABYSITIER NEEDED FOR 2  @ open auditions monday 1 0/9  sense. I know the general audi­ 
with kids. Access to car needed. 5­ CaiiValerie@ 233-1996  284-5170.  ALUMNI CHILDREN DURING THE  @ tuesday 1 0/10  ence loves them, don't you??  
B hrs/week, late afternoons.  USC GAME. ALSO NNED USC  @ 7-10p.m.  And say hi to Sister Jacki for me.  
$5.50/hr. 273-1702 after 5  Need 2 Navy GA's  Need ARMY tixll Karen x3723  TICKETS. PLEASE PAGE ME AT  @ LOCATION TBA••••  -An lllinios Farmer  
Call Frank @ x3389  1-800-946-4646, PIN#5295353  @  
$35,000/YR. INCOME potential.  USC$$USC$$USC$$USC  @@@@@@@@@@@@@@@  I just wanted to tell you good luck!  
Ri!ading book~:~. Toll .Free 800-898­ Need 2 Navy GA's  Need EIGHT (8) tickets to game!  FOR SALE: 2 BC Stud. tix  We're all counting on you.  
9778 Ext. R-2013 for details.  Call Jeff @ x0669  GA's or Student-I don't care.  Call & make an offer. x44519  
Mattx-3744  Thank you St.Jude for prayers  Paper jams are very simple, learn  
$40,000/YR. INCOME potential.  A DEVOTED IRISH FAN NEEDS  HELP! HELP I HELP! Alumnus des­ answered.  how to fix them  
Home typists/PC users. Toll Free  GA'S TO ANY/ALL  Buy my SC ticket!  perately needs 5 USC tix. Please  
B00-898-9778 Ext. T-2013 for list­ HOME/AWAY GAMES.  Taking best offer.  call 215-988-1788 day, or 215-836­ Need ride back to NO Oct 22 from  N,  
Ings.  219-232-0061,24 HRS.  Mel x1286  9150 home.  Iowa. Jim X15B1  You are so cute! -D  


....._......------­
Friday, October 6, 1995 The Observer· SPORTS page 15 

•NHL 
Lemieux ready to play after year's absence 

Bed 'N Breat<fast Registry Michiana'!i First -Since 1983 
Enjoy approved, attractive private homes for ND/SMC special event weekends: 
•JPW • GRAD • FR. OR.

OF AMERICA 
•FOOTBALL 219-291-7153 

Daily Delivery to Notre Dame and South Bend 
$2300 
FLAT MONTHLY FEE!

Don't forget to pick up flowers 
for long distance calls to: 
ELKHART • WAKARUSA

for this weekend's dance! 
BRlSTOL•DUNLAP MIDDLEBURY•GOSHEN 

1404 N. Ironwood Dr. 
If you're spending more than $23.00 per month for calls, 

South Bend, IN 46635 
(219) 288--399.5 
YOU'RE PAYING TOO MUCH! 
We can start your service 
M,F 7:30,7 
today... 

• 
START SAVING NOW!
Sat 8,6 
NO SPECIAL LINE OR
Sun 10,5 

INSTALU\TION REQUIRED Edison 
CALL USAT 

"All major credit cards accepted" 
1-8()()-360-4990 
CHARGE BY PHONE 
Mon.-Fri. 'til 6 p.m. 


~ §ll·ee~r VllCJz·e~ of ":FitJ:~~. 
"Stylesfor all Walks ofLife" 9a.ms~;.p.m. 
• COllEGE fOOTBAll 
Opal forces postponement 
By KEN BERGER Now. Sherrill faces a smilar sold, and even a song was writ­Associated Press situation. As coach of Missis­ten about the game, which was sippi State, his game against finally played Dec. 1. AUBURN, Ala. No. 11 Auburn was postponed There are no reports of peo­
Same coach, similar circum­from Thursday to Saturday to ple in Starkville, Miss., making stances. Jackie Sherrill just avoid the fury of Hurricane fun of Auburn so far. Hurricane hopes for a different result. Opal. Opal was a serious storm that 
As coach and athletic director "The safety of our players, damaged homes and snapped at Texas A&M in 1988, Sherrill coaches and fans is our pri­trees like twigs through much was one of the parties to the so­mary concern," Auburn athletic of Alabama Wednesday night, called "Hurricane Bowl," a director David Housel said. "It when the Bulldogs were sup­game against Alabama that was a simple decision based on posed to fly into Montgomery. was postponed becasue of information we had." Nearly 1 million customers ­Hurricane Gilbert. Sherrill lost Hurricane Bowl I, one fourth of the state -were 

1811 South Bend Ave. • South Bend, IN 46637 11a.m.-4p.m. (219) 271-7674 Walk-ins 
30-10 to Bill Curry's Crimson Tide. The game turned into a sideshow of speculation on whether each coach would keep his job. Curry stayed at Alabama one more year; Sher­rill, his team gripped by NCAA probation, resigned shortly af­ter the regular season. 
"I guess this makes the score: Hurricanes 2. Sherrill 0," Sherrill said. 
Curry decided against making the trip to College Station for the Sept. 17. 1988, game against the Aggies because Hurricane Gilbert threatened parts of Texas. As it turned out, College Station was spared, and students poked fun at Alabama for not showing up. T-shirts and hurricane charts were without electricity Thursday. 
In Auburn, which is some 180 miles inland, streets were lit­tered with trees and power lines, and electricity was out in most of the county. The high­way that leads from Interstate 85 to the stadium was impass­able after Opal blew through. "It's extensive, it's wide­spread," Bill Thornton, emer­gency management director in Lee County, said. "She had some kick." 
The postponement ruined a national television date for both schools. The game was to have been the ESPN Thursday night game of the week. ESPN is al­ready committed to airing the Northwestern-Michigan and Miami-Florida State games dur­ing its two Saturday time slots. 

By KEN RAPPOPORT 
Associated Press 
Mario Lemieux returns to hockey. and hockey returns to Denver -with newly uequired pluyoff MVP Claude Lemieux. 
After tuking a year off for health rea­sons. Murio Le Magnifique takes to NHL ice Saturday following the shortest off­season in league history, but the longest in his life. 
''I'm not coming back to be an average player," Lemieux said. "If I can play 60­70 games and get my back in shape, I can be where 1 was a couple of years a.go." 
Thll Colorado Avalanche, formerly the Qu!lbllc Nordiques, bring hockey back to Denver for the first time since the Colorado Hockies left after the 1981-82 season. 
The Avalanche were bolstered with the recent addition of Claude Lemieux, who helped the New Jersey Devils win the Stanley Cup last season. 
The Rockies play host to the Detroit Red Wings in Friday night's only game, and the Devils start the long road in de­fense of their Stanley Cup championship Saturday when they entertain the Florida Panthers in one of 11 games. 
"We've got to stay focused and hun­gry," Devils defenseman Scott Stevens said. "That shouldn't be a problem because we've got character people. I'd like to see us be very consistent. There's no reason we can't be in every game." 
The Devils, and the rest of the 26 NHL teams, will have the "luxury" this time of a good running start on the season. Last season, the lockout prevented that as the league went into its hurry-up offense to get the abbreviated season underway following settlement of the four-month labor strife. 
Despite a condensed 48-game season. the playoffs still had to be pushed to the latest in history as the Devils completed a four-game sweep of the Detroit Red Wings on June 24. 
Lemieux. the star of the postseason, became embroiled in a bitter contract dispute with the Devils that angered general manager Lou Lamoriello and he was traded in a three-team deal, wind­ing up with Colorado. 
With no neutral-site games this year. the NHL has returned to an 82-game season. 
"The biggest thing is that we have the luxury of having more practice time," Stevens said. "Last year with a lot of games in a short time span, we didn't have the opportunity to practice much. Now we can keep our consistency better and work on any problems we may face." 
In other games Saturday, it will be the Islanders at Boston, New York Rangers at Hartford, Toronto at Pittsburgh. Philadelphia at Montreal, St. Louis at Washington. Calgary at Tampa Bay. Dallas at Winnipeg, Buffalo at Ottawa, Chicago at San Jose and Colorado at Los Angeles. 
Talk of the league in the exhibition season has been the emphasis on obstruction penalties. Officials have been told to enforce these rigidly so that players will be allowed to skate more freely and, the NHL hopes, inject more excitement into a game that was defined as boring by critics last season. 
As a result, players are looking ahead to a more wide-open game this season. 
"It'll show who the real skaters are," Brett Lindros of the Islanders said. "It gives the skill-type players a little more room." 
While the Devils will raise their cham­pionship banner at the Meadowlands, the fans in Boston will inaugurate the FleetCenter. It's the Bruins' first game in their new building following 61 years at venerable Boston Garden. 
The Vancouver Canucks also will open the season in a new building, at General Motors Place arena, but that won't take place until Monday when they meet the Red Wings. 
(,, Come In Before Welcome 
.. '\
, \ Break & Get A 2oz. r---Free--2-o-z:---, 
,.:~\ Paul Mitehell Paul Mitchell ..,('\Produet T? Take . Product 
dJ !~:.:~rJJ~;!~~~~,;. L~~~~!:;~~~~~~~~" 
---~-~~------------­


By MIKE NADEL --Associated Press 
CHICAGO 

Dennis Rodman removed the ski cap, revealing his latest coiffure creation. The hair was red, except for a black bull at the crown. 
_It's a new era for the Chicago Bulls. 
"I had a relative who said, 'Why run off to join the circus? It's come to join us,"' Bulls coach Phil Jackson said during media day Thursday when the just-acquired Rodman stole the spotlight from Michael Jordan, Scottie Pippen and the rest of the Bulls. "It's a little wild.': 
Once identified by Jordan's soaring, balletic moves, the Bulls' most recognizable player is now a hired gun they used to despise. 
Jordan and Pippen were mostly gracious in their com­ments about their new team­mate, the always controversial four-time NBA rebounding champion who arrived this week in a trade with San An­tonio for backup center Will Perdue. 
Pippen seemed skeptical about Rodman's ability to blend in. 
"I think we went out and got a good player. Hopefully, we can stay together as a team," said Pippen, who for the seven­teen months of Jordan's retire­ment was the unquestioned team leader but now must play third fiddle to the magnificent 
Engagement Rings lOo/o-15% OFF! Official Wholesale Price list! 

S.A. Peck & Co. 
55 E. 'll&shington, Chicago, IL 60602 For a Fne 32-Page Color Catalog ToU-Fne (800) 922-0090 FAX (312) 977-0248 lnterntl CIIIQJog fll hllp: /lwww.SIJ[Hck.coml•apeck 
.. 

--------------------~~ -------------------~·------­
Michael and the outrageous Dennis. 
"We're going to go out there and kick butt every night, at least I am," Rodman said. ''I'm going to do my job. I'm not the biggest guy on the team, but I'm the most intimidating per­son. I'll leave all the theatrical stuff to Michael and Scottie, and I'll do all the other stuff that's going to strike everybody up." 
Friday, October 6, 1995 
• SAINT MARY'S VOU.EYBAll 
Four-way meet to challenge Belles 
By KATHLEEN POLICY 
Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's volleyball squad is looking to stay on their feet Saturday after Tuesday's disappointing loss to DePaw (12-15, 16-14, 15-2, 15­8). 
Saint Mary's will host Elmhurst, Bethel, and Madonna Colleges in their very own quadrangular meet in An­gela Athletic Facility. Head Coach Julie Schroeder-Biek hopes to better the team's record using more complete ball work and a stronger de­fense. She wants the team to stay on its toes instead going to the ground to get ball. 
"The passing was bad in the last game," said Schroeder­Biek. "I want to focus on that on Saturday, so the outside hit­ters get some hitting attempts." 
The Belles are hoping for a fresh start at the half way point of their season. Only three home games remain in the sea­son, and the team knows that it has to make each one count for a successful overall record 
Hoping to avoid mental errors since those are what cost the Belles points in the last game, the team hopes to con­centrate during this weekend's quadrangular. Schroeder-Biek indicated that practices have continued to improve as the week has gone on and that the players realize that they have to redeem themselves from the loss last Tuesday. 
> 

"This week we really got into shape," said freshman Laura Shreeg. "We are really excited about playing two matches at home on Saturday." 
The tournament kicks off at noon on Saturday in Angela Athletic Facility. 

"Americans At Their Best'' 
BENEFITS INCLUDE: 
-EXTRA INCOME 

(4 DAYS PAY-FOH 2 DAYS WORK -PAID JOB TRAINING/EXPERIENCE -RECREATIONAL FACILITIES -FLEXIBLE SCHEDULING -MANAGEMENT/LEADERSHIP TRAINING -LOW COST LIFE INSURANCE COVERAGE -MEDICAL/DENTAL CARE -TRAVEL PRIVILEGES -SCHOLARSHIP AVAILABILITY -TUITION ASSISTANCE (GI BILL) -EARN COLLEGE CREDITS -VA HOME LOAN GUARANTEE -SURVIVOR BENEFIT PROGRAM -RETIREMENT BENEFIT PROGRAM 
FoR DETAILS CALL SSG TAYLOR 
(219) 234-9258 
-------------------~ -~ 
Friday, Octber 6, 1995 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
B.C. BANNER CONTEnt 

SUPPORT THE IRISH IN THEIR 8A TTLE AGAINST BOSTON 
Show your Fighting Irish spirit ... make a banner to cheer on the football team as they challenge rival Boston College on Oct. 28. 
Banners will be judged on creativity and spirit. Winning artist(s) will receive $100 both for themselves and for their dorm. 
v 
0 I 
c 
E :.:. :. :.:-:.: 
::::::::::::: 
.:.:.:·:-:.:.
....... 
.·.....
•
··:.:.:·:.:.:.

______, ............ 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
Banners are to be hung outside your dorm by midnight Wednesday, October 25th. You and your "co-artists" must fill out an entry form to qualify your banner 
for  the  contest.  Entry  forms  and  rules  can  be  picked  up  in  the  Student  
Governmant office  on  the second  floor  of LaFor tune.  Deadl ine  for  entry is  
Tuesday, October 24.  


~ 
" 
. 

~-----~~--~ ---~ ~--------------­
~--~P~~eiB
___· _·, ·_____T-=-=he:....::..:Ob=serv.:..:..:...er----=-:·PAI=-=D=---=A-==-D_:_::VE=.:..:RT=--==IS=EM.:..==E=--:....NT=--------Fr_ida.:.__y,o_cto_ber_6,1_995 
;::: 
I I .., 
I 
r 
A CS FIRST BosToN 
CAREER OPPORTUNITIES 
CS First Boston, a leading global investment bank, is recruiting for its Financial Analyst program. Positions are available in the Investment Banking Department. All University of Notre Dame Seniors are invited to 
PRESENTATION: 
Tuesday, October 1 0, 1995 
The Morris Inn Alumni Room 
7:00pm 

INTERVIEWING SC 
Investment Banking 
Monday, January 29, 1996 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION PlEASE CONTACT: 
Debra Johnson 

Investment Banking 
(212) 909-2584 

~ . 
o I j I 1 < 1 I I 
Friday, October 6, 1995 

BY NICOLE BORDA Sports Writer 
Fighting quick winds and even quicker opponents proved to be too much for the Saint Mary's soccer team, as yester­day proved to be another dis­appointing setback. The Belles suffered a 3-0 loss at the hands of one of their biggest rivals, Kalamazoo. 
Saint Mary's head coach Solomon Scholz had hoped that his new plan of attack, the 3-4­3 alignment, would rescue the Belles from their recent trou­bles. Scholz watched in horror yesterday as his usually reliable defense fell apart and the of­fense could not make use of their new alignment. 
"I am not a fan of the 3-4-3 but it seemed it to be what they could do. It obviously is not working and I will probably go back to a 4-2-4," Scholz said. 
Irish to host Invitational 
Wake Forest, Alabama, among rated teams to visit 
ByB.J. HOOD 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's and women's cross country teams will try to continue their early season success on Friday as they host the Notre Dame Invi­tational. 
The men's team finished first at the National Catholic Invita­tional two weeks ago. The Irish have boasted a competitive 
page 19

The Observer • SPORTS 
• SAINT MARY'S SOCCER 
New alignment unsuccessful 
front group in both of the first two meets. Junior Matt Althoff led the men's squad two weeks ago, but head coach Joe Piane says any of the top five can win at a given meet. 
"Seiling, Dunlop, Rexing, Martisus, and Althoff...anyone of those five could be our first finisher," Piane explained. They all ran exceptionally well, and they'll have to run equally well on Friday." 
Piane said many positives came out of the women's sec­ond place finish at the National Catholic Invitational. "Maureen Kelly, Amy Siegal, and Kristen Dudas all ran very well, and Mary Volland was the first freshman to finish," Piane said. "We just need our fifth runner to run as aggressive as she can, 

FOOD AND ENTERTAINMENT FROM AROUND THE WORLD 
Come fo/n /he fun I c5!op by before c5y!J?''s andJormals I Xc£o/1 /he weehendin a umrue way andbrin!J allyourfriends/ 
c5ponsoredbj: Y/(uflicufluraf0xeculiue Counc1f 
Featuring: Sabor Latino, Voices ofFaith, Main Street Rockerettes, and a great night offun, dance, food and music! 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1995 8 P.M.-12 A.M. STEPAN CENTER ADMISSION: $1 

and we'll be a good women's team." 
The Irish will meet iough competition on Friday. Al­abama, Duke, Eastern Michi­gan, Illinois State, Michigan State, South Florida, Virginia, Wake Forest and others will participate. Piane said Wake Forest and Alabama, with na­tionally ranked women's and men's teams, will provide the stiffest competition. Last year, the men's team won the Notre Dame Invitational and the women's team finished second. 
There will be four races on Friday afternoon. The gold di­vision men's race will begin at 2:45, the junior varsity race at 3:30, the women's race at 4:15, and the blue division men's race at 5:00. 
Saint Mary's held Kalamazoo to a scoreless tie up until the end of the first quarter when the Belles gave up the first goal. From this point on, things only got worse. 
"I think we started really well but somewhere we just broke down. I'm not sure what hap­pened," said sophomore Sandra Gass, "It was just one of those games." 
Injury is another problem that the B.elles have been forced to deal with this season. It's beginning to look as though each player is taking their turn. Luckily though for the Belles, none of the injuries thus far have been lasting. A hit in the back sustained in Sunday's game against the University of Chicago has made running painful but bearable for Gass. 
'Til definitely be okay by this weekend. I'm really not too worried," Gass said. 
Detroit 
continued from page 24 
tender, who gave up only a goal to Detroit's Richard Gerspacher in the first half, saw his efforts go unrewarded by the lagging Irish offense, as Notre Dame missed several key scoring opportunities. 
Scott Wells hit a post on a point blank shot in the first half, and Chris Mathis hit the crossbar and put a penalty kick over the crossbar in the second half. The Irish got off 22 shots in the game. with 16 of them coming in the second half, but none of them found the net. 
Mathis' chance to tie the game came when he was taken down in the penalty box with just 4:17 left in the game. Mathis' shot sailed way over the crossbar, though, and the Irish were unable to send the game into overtime, sealing the win for Detroit. 
The Irish defense got a boost 
Sophomore Eileen Newell thought that despite the loss, the Belles played pretty well. 
"The game was much closer than the score revealed. We dominated the ball but it just never hit the back of the net. These next games should be in­teresting," said Newell. 
This weekend the Belles will face the University of Wiscon­sin-Whitewater and the College of Wooster. Both games will be played at Saint Mary's on the fields behind Angela Athletic Facility. Neither of these games will be easy for the Belles and should reveal what Coach Solomon Scholz's latest plan of attack will be. 
"Right now I'm just taking it one game at a time," said Scholz. "This is my first year playing these teams so I really don't know much about them until we get onto the field and play." 
when freshman Matt Mahoney made his return to the starting lineup, and also got some qual­ity play from Joe Gallo in the midfield. The Irish will have to take as many positives as they can from this Joss as they head into a crucial Big East matchup with Georgetown on Sunday afternoon. 
Georgetown won the Big East for the first time in school his­tory last season, posting an 18­4 record and a 7-1 mark in league play. Losses to gradua­tion and a slow start have con­tributed to a 3-6-2 record com­ing into Sunday's game. 
In order for the Irish to claim this crucial match, they will have to contain Ben McKnight, Georgetown's all-time leading scorer with 42 goals and 113 points. McKnight has 6 goals and 16 points this season, and 5 of his goals have come in Big East play. 
If Koloskov is unable to play on Sunday, the Irish will be without their top three offen­sive weapons. 
CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
presented by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
631·7361 

FRIDAY &SATURDAY 7:30 &9:45 PM 
World Wide Web<http://www.nd.edu/-cothweb/wwwsnite.html> 

to the Angela ay, October 9th ednesday, Octobef ll 8:00p.m. for opengym. 
We're At 

We care. From the day you move in, our friendly, profes­sional staff will give you great service. Great location, great service, great price ... Hickory Village has what you need. Come by and see for yourself! 
Efficiencies from $290 1-Bedrooms from $305 2-Bedrooms from $375 
24-hour Emergency Maintenance Service Attentive Staff • Cable TV Available Free Aerobics Classes Laundry Room in Every Building Acres of Rolling Lawns and Trees Pool, Sundeck &Clubhouse Close to Great Shopping. Air Conditioning 
r 
Call or stop by today and v.e'll show you how great living at Hickory Village can be. 
272-1880 

+llCKORij 
VlLLA~Efj 
Mon.-Fri. 8-6, Sat 10-4 & Sun. 12-4 
The Observer • SPORTS Friday, October 6, 1995 

Irish Head Coach Debbie Brown will lead her squad against both West Virginia and Georgetown this weekend at the Joyce ACC. 
careabout a healthy 
lifestyle for yourself. 
CARE to stay out 

of dangerous situations involving a lc::ohol, whether in a car, o bar, or a bedroom. 
CARE 


Care about if, when, and how much you are going to drink. 
enough about yourself 
not to ride with a driver whose been drinking and
CR~E always wear a seatbelt. 
#"""1 "W"' ""' 
14..__. JL,, E:::' to tell a friend how you feel about her or his abusive drinking. 

CARE
to develop positive relationships with diverse people who re!ipect and support the decisions you make. 
for monr information contact Th• BACCHUS & GAMMA Peer iducotlon Network, P.O. llox 100430, Detwer, CO 80250•0430, 303·871·3068 
V-Ball 
continued from page 24 
schedule. The team has matured and shown a lot of discipline. We use every match now as a chance to get better as a team." 
Led by the usual talent, the squad has also shown depth by utilizing other key players such as Kristina Irvin and Freshman Lindsay Treadwell, who has proven herself an effective weapon in the last couple of games leading up to this week­end. 
Commenting on the non­starters, Coach Brown said, "They're playing in crucial situ­ations now, not just in blowouts. Kristina and Lindsay have changed the tide of some games, when the starters looked tired, and Brett has played incredibly steady. They are a big reason we're doing so well this year." 
Today, West Virginia is pre­sented with the task of facing a "new" force, when Notre Dame hosts their first Big East competition. After being ranked first in the conference in pre-season and then starting off with two conference road wins , the Irish look to build on their new win streak at the Joyce Center. "West Virginia is a different team than last year's. They are definitely stronger this season. But if we execute to the level that we've been executing to in the last couple of games, we should have no trouble beating them," adds Debbie Brown, coach of the Irish. 
West Virginia comes into South Bend with an 8-6 record overall led by Juniors Sarah Evers and Kyle Palmer. The Irish defense will have its hands full when Evers and Palmer bring their combined 320 kills into the Joyce Center. On Saturday night, the Irish face the Duke Blue Devils, own­ers of a mediocre 5-8 record overall and a record of 0-2 on the road. 
Regardless, Coach Brown be­lieves that Duke will provide the Irish with more of a chal­lenge than West Virginia. "Despite Duke's record of 5-8, the Blue Devils have encou,n­tered tougher competition than West Virginia has this year. Duke has lost three seniors from last year, but they should still be a strong team this year and provide tough competition for us." 
9 open House at the Office of Alcohol & Drug Education 10 am-3 pm 
C.A.A.E Presentation a pm -t 26 DeBartolo 

1u Disoriented Domer Dash/Aec Sports 
7:39 pm -Gym 2/JC 

11 Fit Wali</Rec Sports -4 pm Start at Lafortune 
Moclc:talls In the 
Dining Halls 

12 Dracula Maule Discussion: Similarities between alcoholism and uamplrlsm 
7:38 pm -FREE t 26 DeBartolo 

PRIZES RT EUERY EUENTilll 
---------.........­
Friday, October 6, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
• WOMEN'S SOCCER 
UConn 
continued from page 24
Confidence key for Irish 
nited in a conference they
By DAVE TREACY need to go out and play our Despite the gutsy perfor­
grew to dominate.
SportS Wri1cr style of soccer." mance of freshman Shannon "Being in a weak conference, 
If anything, the team hopes to Boxx, the squad was not as co­
we never got a chance to
Without a doubt, confidence is relegate last weekend's per­hesive last weekend without establish a rivalry," midfieldera key aspect of competitive formance to be nothing more sweeper Ashley Scharff. The Holly Manthei added. "Oursports. than a wake-up call. But, there senior was out with a twisted biggest rival use to be Butler
A team must be confident in is no room for lapsing into ankle, and Boxx was thrust into and we usually beat them byits ability to win, confident in its lethargic play this weekend. an unfamiliar position to re­about four goals." line-up, confident in its athleti­The Irish are coming home to place her on defense. These games that demand cism and skill in any situation. play two very competitive teams "Shannon is a great attacking marking a calendar, however, A rough weekend does not at Alumni Field. Big East con­midfielder. We put her into an are much tougher. help foster confidence. ference rival Connecticut was unfamiliar situation; sweeper is Connecticut is coming off a 
So, coming off a weekend 1994 campaign in which they
an NCAA Final Four team last not her spot." 
made the NCAA Final Four
where two average opponents year, and are presently ranked Scharff will be back this caused major problems, where 5th in the country. Santa Clara weekend, which should add sta­along with Notre Dame. Back 
in Storrs, the Huskies welcome is tho confidence level of the is also an exceptional opponent, bility to the back line. This sta­back five of their six leadingIrish? How will the tie at presently ranked 8th nationally. bility may be exactly what the scorers. This depth constitutes 
Cincinnati and the overtime win If the Irish show any lack of Irish need to ascend to their a major why
reason the 
over Ohio State factor into this confidence, these two teams regular level of play. Huskies currently boast a 9-1­weekend's level of perfor­have the ability to pounce on "There's been pandemonium 1 record. mance? them. recently with all of the different "We have a good t.eam,"
"I guarantee you, you will see "I think that they'll come in line-ups. We're confident with Tsantiris added. "Last year we no effects of last weekend's re­with confidence, after seeing Ashley back there; there's more were more of a defensive sults in our play this weekend," our scores from last weekend," stability and composure," team, but this year we are 
declared Irish head coach Chris Daws said. Manthei explained. strong in both areas. We are Petrucelli. able to attack more on
"They'll try to capitalize on Santa Clara should be an in­
offense."
Bold words, to be sure. But any weaknesses we have," teresting match-up this week­The Huskies' can also drawhis players are right behind Manthei agreed. "But being at end due to their ability to find a upon added motivation fromhim. home and playing good teams is way to win. They play at their playing the Irish on a yearly"We're coming in to this when we're at our best. We best against quality opponents. 
basis.
week~nd with more confidence need to combine skill with emo­"They have players that are "This is great for our pro­
than you might expect," said co­tion, and we'll do well." very good. We recruited Mikka gram and we're looking for­captain Cindy Daws. "It's just a Despite the disappointments Hanson, one of their front-line ward to the challenge of play­matter of playing at the level of last weekend's action, Petru­players very heavily. We expect ing a good team," Tsantiris we're capable of, and I think celli is pleased with his squad. a very tough game against said. "Without any challenges that we'll do that this week­"How can there be anything Santa Clara," Petrucelli pre­we tend to get stale." end." wrong with us? If you told me dicted. No lack of freshness will be 
"We've regrouped," said mid­present tonight with both
before the start of the season This weekend's opponents
fielder Holly Manthei. "We teams favoring an attacking
that at this point we'd be 9-0-1, will not provide a walk in the 
style. Senior Ashley Scharffhave all the confidence we need I'd have been very happy," park for the Irish. It's a final returns to her position in theto play this weekend. We just Petrucelli said. "We will spend four weekend. How Notre defensive backfield after sit­had to realize that we are bet­time this week getting back to Dame handles the pressure will ting out last weekend's gamestor than the teams that we realizing how good we are, and have serious implications for 
with an injury in which the
played last weekend, and we we'll build on that." the rest of the season. 
Notre Dame allowed their first goals all season. The return of her veteran leadership will help to neutralize the UConn attack. 
"They're obviously the best team we're going to play in the Big East this year," Petrucelli added. "They're going to come ready to play and to attack." 
Leading the attack will be ju­nior forward Kerry Connors who will play despite a broken finger. Connors has already set the Connecticut single-sea­son record for assists with 15 through eleven games. 
Co-captain Christy Rowe, who played under Petrucelli on the U.S. Olympic Festival team, returns after being declared a medical redshirt last year. De­spite another injury in her ju­nior year, Rowe is 20th on the all-time scoring list as her quickness complements the UConn offensive scheme. 
However, co-captain Ashley Paine will continue to sit out as she recovers from a concus­sion, while goalkeeper Amy Schwarz will not play due to a case of mononucleosis. 
According to Tsantiris, the injuries will not change any­thing. 

"We are going to play the way UConn plays and that's it," Tsantiris said. 
Depending on how UConn and Notre Dame play tonight, the game might be viewed as a harbinger in terms of an ongo­ing rivalry. 
"Hopefully it will be some­thing to look forward to," Manthei added. "It'll be kind of nice." 
"We are going to see a lot of each other over the next cou­ple of years," Petrucelli said. 
Get your pen and calendars ready. 


New and improved ... 
Smoke-eaters • Improved heating & air conditioning. • Brand-spankin' new pool table • Darts • Killer jukebox selection • Spacious new layout • Even more variety than before! 
As always, bringing you the best Campus Bands! 
...But still the same old Club! 
LOCATED JUST OFF CAMPUS ON THE CORNER OF 
SOUTH BEND AVE. & NOTRE DAME AVE. 
lJ4-4015 
ALWAYS OPEN 

--------------------------------~-~-----.· 
page 22 
The Observer • SPORTS Friday, October 6, 1995 
• INTERHAU. fOOTBALL 
Howard scores shutout 
By MIKE DAY 
Sports Writer 
Interhall rivals Howard and Badin were playing for more than bragging rights on Thursday night. They were battling it out for the fourth and final playoff spot in the Gold Di­vision. 
And after Thursday night, it appears that Badin has all but locked up that final playoff birth following a 14-0 victory over Howard. 
Senior tailback/linebacker Michelle Dillenburger put on a show worthy ·ofPlayer of the Week honors. She scored on a pair of touchdown runs and added three interceptions to help lead the 2-2-1 Badin squad to the victory. 
"She was outstanding," said Badin captain Fran Maloney. "She did great both offensively and defensively, and she has come through all season long." 
While Dillenburger was run­ning wild through the Howard defense, it was junior quarter­back Amber Simonic who en­gineered a strong passing game. Simonic gave the Howard defense fits with her rifle arm and her ability to avoid a strong pursuit. 
With a half-game lead over Howard, Badin now controls their own destiny. and a win on Sunday against No. 12 B.P. will secure the fourth playoff spot. 
"We're really excited about tb.e possibility." said Maloney. "We just need to keep it up for one more game, and we're con­fident that we will be in the playoffs after not making it last year." 
Walsh 12, Lyons 6 
The evening's marquee matchup featured No. 3 Walsh and No. 5 Lyons in what was· supposed to be a battle of two of lnterhall football's top teams. The game certainly lived up to its billing as Walsh pulled out an amazing 12-6 vic­tory on the last play of an incredible game. 
The game stood at 6-6 until quarterback Carolyn Parnell 
threw a perfect spiral to re­ceiver Luz Rodriguez in the end zone to break the tie and give Walsh the 12-6 win. The score was on the heels of Rodriguez's earlier touchdown that gave Walsh a 6-0 lead. 
"We worked really well as a team tonight," said captain Mary Wells. "The young play­ers stepped up, ·and they have come together really well for us." 
The lone score for Lyons came whe'n quarterback Julie Byrd found receiver Jenny Layden wide open for the easy touchdown. The defending champions were unable to muster any offense for the re­mainder of the game as Walsh's defense proved to be too much in the end. 
The victory improved Wal-

Movies around Michiana 
University Park West 
Cinemark Theatres 
inside U.P. Mall277-7336
Movies 10 Mishawaka 
-
"How to Make an American Quilt" (PG-13) 1:20,4:00,7:20, 10:00 "Braveheart" (R) 8:00 "National Lampoons Sen" (R) 12:55, 3:05, 5:10 "Halloween 6" (R) 1:25, 3:30, 5:35,7:40, 9:45 "Assassins" (R) 
1:45,4:35,7:30, 10:20 "Dead Presidents" (R) 1:35,4:15,7:10, 10:10 "To Die For" (R) 2:10,4:45,7:45, 10:15 "Assassins" (R) 1:00, 3:50, 7:00, 9:50 "Unstrung Heros" (PG) 1:10, 3:25, 5:30, 7:50, 9;55 "A Walk in the Clouds" (PG-13) 7:25,9:40 "Babe" (G) 1:15,3:10,5:15 "Dangerous Minds" (R) 1:00, 3:20, 5:50, 8:05, 10:20 
"Last of the Dogmen" (PG) 2:00, 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 "Usual Suspects" (R) 2:30, 5:00, 7:05, 9:45 "To Wong Foo" (PG-13) 2:15, 4:45, 7:15, 9:45 
University Park East 
behind Service Merchandise 277-7336 
"Moonlight & Valentino" (R) 2:00, 4:20, 7:00, 9:20 ''The Big Green" (PG) 2:00, 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 "Steal Big, Steal Little" (PG-13) 2:15, 5:00, 8:15 "Clockers" (R) 2:30, 5:30, 8:30 "Desperado" (R) 1:30,4:15,7:15,9:40 "Apollo 13" (PG) 1:45,4:45, 8:00 
Thursday night study break. All shows $4 all day with valid Student J.D. 
sh's record to a perfect 5-0, while Lyons fell to 2-2-1 head­ing into Sunday's finale. 
Cavanaugh 12, B.P. 6 

In the contest between Inter­hall football's two winless teams, Cava1;1augh avoided fu­tility by crushing B.P. 21-12 in the final game on Thursday night. 
Sophomore running back Carol Gulick scored a pair of touchdowns, and freshman quarterback Amy Laboe added another in the dominating vic­tory for Cavanaugh. 
"They played really well for us," said defensive star Kate Coughlin. "We knew going in that we had the better team. We've had a tough schedule so far this year, and we really needed a night like tonight." 
The confident Cavanaugh squad sported black face paint and bandanas in an attempt to turnaround a frustrating sea­son. The attempt evidently worked, as they jumped out to a 14-0 lead at halftime and never looked back. 



The Obseover/Brent Tadsen Junior Maureen Hill and the Lyons Lions came up just short in their 12­6 loss to Walsh Thursday evening. 
.. 

+ 
@ 
(1) (1) 


II All Adds Up! 
Take Damon's famous barbecued ribs, onion loaf and other great specialties, Add non-stop sports action on giant video screens Plus challenging mteracdve trivia games and you've got Damon's Clubhouse--the place to go lor food and lunl Before, during or aner the game, Damon's Clubhouse Is the place to bel 
Now Open! Damon's Clubhouse South Bend 
52885 u.s. 33 North • (Just North of Toll Road) • (219) 272-5478 
Qo~ ... THREE!

ftleufNH'~ 'IJ~ 

Friday-7:00 p.m.& vs. West Virginia Saturday-7:00 p.m. -vs. Duke 
ftleufNH,~ gtJOt»'', 

Friday-7:30 p.m. -vs. Connecticut 
& 

Sunday-7:00 p.m..:.. vs. Santa Clara 
MIIH,~ gtJOt»'', 

Sunday-2:00 p.m. -vs. Georgetown 

' .~.-~--~------------------------~ 
Friday, October 6, 1995 
--,,,--------------­The Observer • TODAY 
page 23 

YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1995 (For your personalized daily Jeane Dixon horoscope, based on your own date of birth, call 1-900-988-7788. Your phone company will bill you 99 

OJR LU..f COL\ I:G\C.NS ARB{\ D\JE FOR AWEEK 'itT' ~OW COVlO '{0\J I>O§IBL'< BE N...MOS1 \)t.l;;: ~/ 
I i
a.{jl 
~ Ml 
L----~~~------~ 
DILBERT 

CROSSWORD 
1 Yields 
31 60's 

10 Kind of stew 
Presidential 15 Political in-law surprise 
34 Auden's "The 16 Time being --of Anxiety" 17 Bent backward 35 Black rights 18 Spud 
org. since 1912 36 Mourn

19 Spleen 38 Spout
20 Guns 40 Two-piece piece
21 Most high. in titles 
41 Pod starter 
42 Shaping tool 43 Attention 22 They're dubbed 

24 "Couplehood" author 44 Close 
26 Come by 46 Shoot-'em-up 
50 Naphthol, e.g. protectors 51 Flaunt 29 Ersatz 54 Clean 
27 01ary 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
"'--+'-'+=+"'i 10 Short musical work 
11 More than laugh 12 Basic 13 Dramatic 
opening 14 Dissenter 21 Neptune, e.g. 23 Active 25 Journalist 
Alexander 
The Observer 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer 
·is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
I  I-1"'1:.E.  IT  A ~1'1\E.  I  1>10 '(CIJ KNOW T}j"\S  
PRE.1t.W;) ITS A C:Ot-1\'CST  ON~ C>F  ffiE TEl--l  
TO  SEE  I-lOW Mf>.!{~ l.E"~S  Wt>.RN\NG SIG~S Of  
T C~N FINO He\-\ Dfl..~.  HOI'£.LE.55 OWE.E.BIS\'1\?  
114fo.T  WI>."{,  Irs NCT  fo.N  
ASS\GNt.\E\'{1 I  It'S FUN .'  


SCOTT ADAMS 
THE. GOOD NEW5 15 THE. BAD NEWS THAI WE'Ll DE. IS WE'LL ~E. 
HITTING TOWN TE.N HITTING TOWN. 
I"\I NUTES AHEAD OF 
5CHE.DULE ... 
55 Pencil name 57 Sweet-talk 59 One in a club: 
Abbr. 60 Dripping 61 Late-summer 
concern 63 Discrimination 64 Approved 65 City north of 
Cologne 66 Apparatus 
DOWN 

1 Loud 2 Isaac Albemiz 
composition 3 The electorate 4 Asian lead-in s Warehouse 
abbr. 6 Tender 7 Escape 
facilitator 8 Establishment in a new habitat 9 Mardi Gras V.I.P. 
/ 

28 Quiet 32 Of the north 33 Tobacco pipe 36 Grade school 
supplies 37 Infrequency 39 Fire 40 Intimate 45Gap 47 Hot-­48 Regulating 
device 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

0 Enclosed is $70 for one academic year 
0 Enclosed is $40 for one semester Name _________________________________________ Address _____________________________________ City----------State _____ Zip._______ 
-
49 Solution 58 Missing floor in Caesar's
52 Kind of palace?
column 53 Geocentric 

61 "Tell---" center (1963 hit) 
56 Garden 62 Recycled access item 

Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420· 5656 (75¢ each minute). 
cents a minute.) 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: The sky is the limit for professional success! Seize an opportunity to showcase your special talents during the winter holidays. Taking on new responsibilities will open the door to greater personal fulfillment and financial security. Avoid appearing self-centered. Joint or group ven­tures hold exciting possibilities in 1996. You meet a kindred spirit through your work. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: journalist Shana Alexander, baseball player Ruben Sierra, actress Britt Ekland, tennis great Helen Wills. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Misunderstandings could arise this morning. Ask for further clarifica­tion. The lure of the new and exotic is strong. Exercise self-restraint. A void taking a course of action that will arouse a loved one's insecuri­ties. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): An unconventional business approach or the hiring of a talented newcomer could take your work in a more profitable direction. Signing important documents will boost your status and financial security. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Take a breather of sorts. Get caught up on paperwork and important phone calls. Neither force the pace nor dawdle. Dressing well makes you feel good. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Take a gamble on yourself and your ideas! Your timing is excellent, your reasoning sound and mature. A close friend or professional adviser urges you to strike out in a new direction. Be adventurous. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You have the ability and confidence to make your dreams come true. Take a calculated risk. Your bold move to win someone's love or gain approval for a long-range plan will 
. . A question and answer session entitled "How to ·Prepare for Non*Academic Careers in Fields Related to ·Peace Studies and Government" wiU be held today at 3:00p.m. in room 103 of the Hesburgh Center. The se~sion will be run by professors Denis Goulet. Gil 
Loescher, and David Leege. 
:<.Wi '\;it·•li Graduate Students: there will be a GSU Party tonight at 8:00 p.m. at the Wilson Commons. Your Gti'Uiuate and Zl~year old ID is required. 
:lf,i\!ft•,; ; ·.;.. 
· · Director of Holy Cross Associates John Pinter invites people interested in the program to drop by for coffee at'Allegro on either Monday, October 9, or Tuesday, October 10, trom 12:30 p.m. until 2:30 p.m. He will be available for questions and to help with applications. For more information. call631·5521. 
~1$1 
•MENU 

-
•'Notre Dame 
•.. · ¥%o:: .. 

North South 
Mushroom Pizza Mississippi Pried Catfish Szechuan Beef Polish Sausage Sandwich · Qijon Potatoes Vegetable Calzone 
... 
SaintMary's"*· 
Vegetable and Tofu Stir Fry Barbeque Spareribs Baked Potatoes 
I . \~!SF· ....,,;;.;.:;.;.• . . 
>O':'<P ·:··~·~*; . 
The Observer 
P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 
succeed. Act now. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Activity and lively conversation will revive sagging spirits. Use the phone to check up on loved ones at a distance. Good news helps bring family members closer together. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): A gamble or splurge could put your savings at risk. Consult a well­informed friend. Joining a group will help you find long-sought answers. Tend to minor home repairs before they tum major. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Postpone making an important deci­sion until the latest facts and figures are available. Read trade papers to assess recent trends. Domestic upsets call for a cool head. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dcc. 21): Tallying your many fine quali­ties is the best way to rise above self-doubts. You can accomplish great things working behind the scenes. Solo pursuits are also favored. Romance gives the evening 

,. 
a festive feeling. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): A private setting is conducive to heightened communication. Suc­cess comes through pooling your talents and resources. Get all promises in writing. The plot begins to thicken where romance is con­cerned. Avoid passing along gossip. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Quiet reflection could bring power­ful new insights. Your powers of persuasion win valuable support for your career or business plans. Confi­dential information is available that proves you were right. Resist saying "I told you so." 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Access to key people fuels your hopes. You draw closer to a prized goal. A friendly phone call cheers a loved one who is down in the dumps. Your buoyant attitude will be contagious this weekend. 

SPORTS 
page 24 Friday, October 6, 1995 
• MEl'S SOCCER 

Detroit scores shutout in physical game 
Eight yellow cards slow down Irish offense 
By DYLAN BARMMER Sports Writer 

Maybe someone should change the name of Alumni Field to the Notre Dame Zoo. 
Total chaos engulfed Alumni Field for more than the first time this season, complete with more shouting matches than an episode of the Ricki Lake Show. 
Oh, by the way, there was also a soccer game going on. 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team dropped a 1-0 game to the University of Detroit Mercy amidst all the festivities, and suffered yet anoth­er debilitating injury in the process. 
In a game which featured 65 total fouls and 8 yellow cards, the Irish were unable to muster a goal for the first time this season, and lost their second leading scorer in Konstantin Koloskov to 
Men's Soccer 

vs. Georgetown October 8, 2 p.m. 
Cross Country 
Notre Dame Invitational October 6, 3:30 p.m. 
Saint Mary's Sports 

Soccer vs. UW-Whitewater Oct. 7, 1 p.m. Volleyball at SMC Quadrangular Oct. 7 

The Observer/Brent Tadsen Joe Gallo made a valiant effort in the midfield, but the Irish fell to Detroit 1-0. 
an ankle injury in the second half. 
Greg Velho did everything he could to keep the Irish in the game, making eight saves in goal, many of them brilliant. The freshman goal-
see DETROIT/ page 19 

• Flanner stays perfect in IH footbal see page 22 
SM C soccer falls to Kalamazoo see page 19 SMC volleyball to host tournament see page 16 
• VOll.FtUU. 
Georgetown, West Virginia to visit Irish 
By MICHAEL THOMPSON stronger. The Notre Dame vol­Sports Writer leyball team has exemplified this statement and become a 
It is said that whatever doesn't kill you only makes you 
.. 
The Observer/Brent Tadsen 
Senior Brett Hensel's consistent serving is a key to the Irish's recent success. 
-
..­
teams. 

Coach Debbie Brown is not terribly concerned. "I think 
right on 
see V-BALL I page 20 
Football 

at Washington October 7, 2:30 p.m. 
Volleyball 

vs. West Virginia October 6, 7 p.m. vs. Duke October 7, ?p.m. 
-
Women's Soccer 
vs. Connecticut October 6, 7:30p.m. vs.Santa Clara October 8, noon 



