
Thursday, March 2, 1995 • Vol. XXVI No. 98 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Rally to be held in Rita faces amended charge 
support of GLND/SMC 
By DAVE TYLER 
News Editor 
John Rita will face a retrial on an amended charge of leav­ing the scene of a fatal acci­dent. 
St. Jospeh Superior Court Judge William Albright denied two defense motions Tuesday, one to dismiss the case against the Notre Dame Law School graduate and one to bar the windshield of the car Rita was driving the night that Notre Dame freshman Mara Fox was struck and killed. 
Albright also granted a mo­tion made by St. Joseph's County Prosecutor Michael Barnes to add two words to the charge that Rita will face at the second trial. 
Rita, 25, of Springfield, Vir­ginia is charged with failing to stop at a fatal traffic accident. This past November a jury ac­quitted Rita of a charge of caus­ing a death while driving drunk. The jury deadlocked on a second charge of leaving the scene of an accident, prompting Albright to declare a mistrial, and Barnes to seek a retrial. 

Fox, 18, of Oakton, Virginia was struck and killed as she walked back to campus with friends along Douglas Road in the early morning hours of Nov. 13, 1993. 
In turning down Defense At­torney Charles Asher's request to exclude the windshield from Rita's Honda Accord, Albright noted that he had made similar decisions three separate times in the first trial. Albright said he believed the windshield was still a relevant part of the case. 
Two words, "and render," will be added to the charge that Rita will face at the retrial. The new phrasing of the charge would allege that Rita not only left and failed to stop at the scene of the crash, but that he did not render assistance to the victim. 
The judge said the addition was necessary because of a clerical error made in prepar­ing the original charge. Al­bright said the additon was one of several legally required acts listed in the charge by the pros­ecution. 
In testimony at the first trial Rita admitted not stopping at the scene, but maintained he did not know he had hit Fox. 
see RETRIAL I page 4 

By DAVE TYLER 
News Editor 
The hot issue on campus will assume the spotlight again when a rally of support for (;ays and Lesbians of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College IGLND/SMCJ takes place today at Field House Mall. 
The rally is scheduled to take plaee from 12:15 to 12:45 p.m., and has, in eontrast to recent demonstrations, received the approval of William Kirk, Assis­tant Vice-President for Student AITairs. 
Kirk confirmed today that the rally has been granted official status. The meeting will not be sponsored by any official group, 

Cherubini, Hooper to face off 
By BETH REGAN S~int Mary's Editor 
Two tickets for the incoming Hnsidtmcn Hall Association (IUIA) board at Saint Mary's will be facing off in Friday's deetion. 
The eurrent board eonsisting of .len Cherubini (president), Amy Kramer (viee-president), and Kathy Pileavage (treasur­PJ') will be running for reelec­tion with newcomer Emily Millnr (secretary). Their oppo­nents arn Tara Hooper (presi­dent). Barbara VanDersarl (vict~-president). Cynthia Exc:onde (treasurer) and Laura ll ichter (secretary). 
The ChHrubini tieket is inter­ested in starting a eampus­widr, recycling program that inc:ludes students, Sisters of the lloly Cross, and faculty mem­bers at Saint Mary's. 
"As the current board, we have already begun to do re­scmrch on the projeet," Cheru­bini said. "We've gotten infor­mation on bins and other 
see TICKETS I page 4 

Kirk said. Permission to hold the rally was granted to two students, junior Faye Kolly and senior Roberto Guerra. Kolly serves as co-president of Amnesty International, and Guerra is a vice-president with the same organization, but Kirk stressed that the permission was granted to the pair as stu­dents, not as officers of the group. 
According to Kolly, the rally will be held expressly to sup­port the cause of GLND/SMC and not organized by the group in anyway. The administration had expressed concern that re­cent protests were a vehicle for GLND/SMC to sponsor a cam-
see RALLY I page 4 

Class officers, quad senators chosen 
Murray, Schwartz tickets win, Miller takes Senate seat 
By EDWARD IMBUS Associate News Editor 
The ticket of Mike Schwartz, Bill Hammonds, Erin Purtell, and Beth Loftus will represent the class of 1997 next year. The upcoming sophomore class will be represented by Megan Murray, Peter Moriarty, Matt Griffin, and Connie Dougherty. Voters also chose Seth Miller to hold the Student Senate seat in South Quad. 
Miller won the election by defeating Mai Ly, a sophomore from Lyons Hall. He col­lected 443 votes, or 54.9 percent, to Ly's 364 votes, 45.1 percent of the total. Forty­two percent of all South Quad residents voted. 
The 890 students of the class of 1997 who voted in the runoff election yesterday chose the Schwartz ticket with 473 votes, or 53.1 percent, over the ticket of Joe Schimpf, Michael Zinser, Mike Eger, and Pat Abell. The Schimpf ticket received 
46.9 percent of the vote with 417 votes. Of the 1882 people in the class, 47.2 percent voted. 
With just under half the class of 1998 voting, the Murray ticket beat the ticket of Brendan Kelly, Megan Hempelman, Jackie McAllister, and Mike Peppard by a total of Similarly, Bill Hammonds of the grateful to our supporters." 550 votes to Kelly's 395. Schwartz ticket said that the new class 
New housing for SMC seniors 

Miller was obviously enthusiastic about his win. After being congratulated by Ly, he stated he was "happy to have the privi­lege to work for South Quad." He said he looked forward to pursuing the ideas he advocated in his campaign. 

By AIMEE HEIMANN News Writer 
With the room selection pro­cess rapidly approaching the Saint Mary's students on March 26-28, many students have their attention turned to the se­nior housing selection occur­ring March 6. 
Because of the return of Au­gusta Hall, the current senior dorm, to the Sisters of the Holy Cross, Saint Mary's was pre­sented with the problem of finding a new housing option for seniors. The solution cho­sen was the conversion of the fourth floor of Holy Cross Hall to a senior "dorm." This floor will accommodate 60 students as opposed to Augusta's 64. 

The Observer/ Michael Hungeling "This is a short term solution,
A priest dispenses ashes at the Ash Wednesday mass in the Sacred but short term may mean sev-Heart Basilica. 
eral years. A long term goal would be construction of a new building to house seniors," said to Pam Miller, Housing Coordi­nator, 
According to Miller, current juniors seem to be responding in a positive manner, as 78 of them attended the mandatory informational meeting. 
The women who live there next year will have the major responsibility of setting up the atmosphere of the fourth floor, Miller said. This new option is the same as Augusta, except it is placed on the top floor of an­other dorm instead of in a sep­arate building. There will be a separate hall council for this floor, and they will create a name for the floor instead of being called senior housing. 
"All the rules that apply to other students in the residence hall will apply to the fourth floor, just as they do in Au­gusta," said Holy Cross Hall di­rector, Rachel Tenyer. The addition of 24 hour access to the side door by detex is an added advantage of senior housing. 
''I'm living on fourth floor be­cause my friends and I have a greater chance of living by each other than we would through regular room picks. It's not Augusta, but it's better than the alternative. It will be nice to be surrounded by seniors," said junior Heather Durie. 
These privileged seniors will have exclusive use of a lounge (the former "Barn,") and an additional TV lounge. Efforts are being made to add a wash-
see HOUSING I page 4 


r-------------·~------------------~------~-------·-~----------~----------~------------------------------------------~~------._____________ 
page 2 
• INSIDE CmJJMN 


How Can I Relate? 
Walk down any side­Melanie Laflin 
walk on campus, and you're bound to get the News Copy Editor typical Notre Dame fra­ternal gesture-no eye contact, the quick mut­ter, "Hey, what's up?" If you're lucky, you could get a hand gesture to go with that. Sometimes, people have admitted to deliber­ately going out of their way to avoid another person passing by. Hmmm... 
Is it the cold weather that stiffens us, makes us watch every step we take? Is it heartburn or a toothache the person is strug­gling with? Are they lamenting a failing grade or love affair gone sour? Or could it be a serious friend or family problem they are dealing with? 
The fact is, we really just don't know what's going on in their minds. Wouldn't it be neat if we could? Just one scan through the T..A.'s brain and you could get an "A" rather than that failing grade. Guys could read girls' feel­ings and guess right the first time, girls could read guys' minds and well... I guess it's best if we don't read each other's minds. What it all boils down to is relating and communica­tion. 
Communication-what a great, over-used word. If you've ever been to Epcot and ridden inside the giant metal golf ball, you know what I'm talking about when I say communi­cation has been very important over the years, from the caveman to the Egyptians to the "future of tomorrow." Communication motivates people, gets things going, and is a strong power within itself. 
The media can dictate reality and often does. Put a lunatic in a position in which he can control the press and watch how people will begin to believe anything he says. Print something controversial and watch people's reactions. This is how we inform others of our beliefs and our identities as individuals. 
We are all unique individuals, different in thought, mind, and action. Reaching out and communicating is really the only way some­one is going to understand where we are all coming from. 
Take our administrators in the dome, for example. It is difficult to relate to them as we the students aren't faced with pressures from above or the daily complex decisions that must cater to opposing sides. Yet, the admin­istrators should try to see the "real world" here at Notre Dame which begins in the class­room. The students and the professors make up the heart of ND. 
As for the students on this campus, we must relate to each other by recognizing each other's individuality as a sex or different race or group. The communication gap is frightening. Too often I've heard the commu­nication between a male and a female referred to as "the casual thing.'' What's up with that? Heaven forbid that you should ask someone to dinner or do something for fear of crossing the "casual line" -the other person may think you've lusted after them your entire pubescent life. But that's the fun of the game I guess ... 
Relating to other people and accepting them 
as individuals isn't a foreign concept. It has 
always given mankind difficulty over the 
years. As the saying goes, history does tend 
to repeat itself. 
If only I could be in __'s shoes for the 
day. And they in mine. The world would be 
so much better. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

News Viewpoint 
Ethan Hayward Michael O'Hara 
Jamie Heisler Carolyn Wilkens 
Sports Production 
Tom Schlidt Heather Gibson 
Abby May Tara Grieshop 
Graphics Lab Tech 
Tom Roland Mike Hungeling 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, Marc 2, 1995 
• Wmu.o AT A GLANCE 
Springsteen's 'Streets of Philadelphia' wins four Grammys 
LOS ANGELES ---------,·r----John Michael Montgomery. 
Bruce Springsteen's brooding, Academy Award-winning "Streets of Philadelphia" won song of the year and three other hon­ors at Wednesday night's 37th annual Grammy ceremony. 
The song, from the 1993 movie' "Philadelphia" about a lawyer with AIDS, also won for best rock song, best song written specifically for a movie or televi­sion and best male rock vocal perfor­mance. 
Sheryl Crow was named best new artist and also won a Grammy for her hit song
"All I Wanna Do." Backstage, Crow said she relied on poet Wyn Cooper's work to complete the song. "I wrote five different sets of lyrics for that song and ... I called Wyn and said, 'Can I use your poem?' and he said, 'Great."' 
Salt-N-Pepa were awarded the Grammy for best rap performance by a duo or group for the trio's song "None of Your Business.'' 
Transcending award categories, the song "I Swear" brought All-4-0ne the' 
Grammy for best pop vocal performance, by a group of duo and was named best: country song for the version recorded by! 
Hillary Clinton speaks at Pentagon 
WASHINGTON 
Hillary Rodham Clinton made an his­toric appearance at the Pentagon on Wednesday to praise the U.S. military for being "far ahead of much of the rest of our country" in providing equal work opportunities for women. "It is a privilege and an honor for me to have learned that I am the first first lady to have had the opportunity to speak here 

at the Pentagon," Mrs. Clinton said to an overflow crowd of uniformed and civilian defense officials. She gave the keynote address at a ceremony observing Women's History Month, and was praised by other speakers for serving as honorary chairwoman of the Women in Military Service for America Memorial Foundation. Mrs. Clinton praised the military's steps away from traditional restrictions on the kinds of work women are allowed to perform. She mentioned in particular a 1993 repeal of a Defense Department regulation that had barred women from a variety of jobs including serving aboard combat ships and piloting warplanes. 
Injured doctor defibrillates himself 
BOSTON 
A doctor who felt his heart racing dangerously zapped 
himself with his office defibrillator to jolt it back to nor­
mal. The 40-year-old plastic surgeon, who was not 
identified in the article, accidentally shocked himself 
while trying to fiX a lamp in his office. He grew dizzy and 
his heart beat rapidly. So he dragged himself into his 
operating room and hooked himself up to a heart moni­
tor. There he discovered his heart was racing at 160 
beats per minute. Worried he was about to pass out, he 
smeared himself with conducting jelly, placed the defib­
rillator paddles on his chest and turned the thing on. 
The first jolt threw him off the table but failed to fiX his 
heart. He climbed back and tried it again. This time it 
worked. Dr. Amin H. Karim of Baylor College of 
Medicine in Houston, who eventually treated the doctor, 
said he probably would have been better off dialing 911 
for an ambulance. "It was very daring," Karim said. 
"What if he passed out? He could have put himself into a 
more dangerous rhythm. If that happened, it would have 
meant cardiac arrest." 


Thursday, March 2 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Thursday, March 2. 
lines separate high temperature zones tor the day. 
FRONTS: 
..,........,.-............. ,a..,­
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1995 Accu-Weather. Inc. Pressure 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 01995 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
37thANNUALG RAMMY. ,,.-~Itt..._,ITA.RDS  Boyz II Men claimed the R&B album trophy for "II" and received the award for best R&B duo or group vocal perfor­ 
ftffft  mance for ''I'll Make Love to You." Toni  
March 1, 1995  Braxton won the female R&B vocal per­ 

,,,.,,_..........a·~~~ for "Breathe Again." 
L---~-="""" The National Academy of Recording and Sciences presented its annual awards in ceremonies at the . The top awards were during a three-hour CBS tele­
with comedian Paul Reiser as host. mt~I····Fffs~~~,~iwThe Rolling Stones' "Voodoo Lounge" 
F~ the rock album trophy and 's "Crazy" received a Grammy performance by a group with 
"'"'""""' Etheridge captured the female ';?If~~~·~~~·!~ performance Grammy for "Come to 
1!111 

My Window." Green Day grabbed the award for best alternative music perfor­mance for their album "Dookie.'' 
"Black Hole Sun" by Soundgarden :earned the hard-rock performance it1f!II\Jftm!jrif)ii@I''Grammy. 
iMl 

Eric Clapton captured the traditional blues album award for "From the Cradle." 
Principal allegedly picked pockets 
NEW YORK 

A Coney Island principal has been charged with fleec­ing the school system and its pupils with the skill of a boardwalk huckster, making money off everything from candy sales and movies to clay figurines of Barney and Elvis made by teachers. Stuart Possner, 1992 Principal of the Year in his district, allegedly stole $76,000 in school funds-some of it swiped directly from his gram­mar-school pupils. He pleaded innocent Tuesday and was free on $25,000 bail. Possner, a 13-year veteran, operat­ed P.S. 100 "like it was his own candy store," said Brooklyn District Attorney Charles J. Hynes -and that included the school candy store, where Possner allegedly plundered $11,000. Possner allegedly conjured scheme after scheme to plunder the school from 1990 to 1993, including setting up a ceramic shop in a kindergarten classroom, with teachers using school products on school time to create figurines of Barney and Elvis Presley. Possner, 46, who makes $70,000 a year, faces up to seven years in prison if convicted on the most serious charges, grand larceny and tampering with public records. 
Lottery winnings to pay for defense 
FORT PIERCE, Fla. 

One week ago, Victor Brancaccio's lawyer urged a judge to delay the teen-ager's murder trial so his family could raise money for an insanity defense. The judge granted a three-month delay. The family needed only five days: On Sunday, Gene and Lina Brancaccio learned they had won a $2.82 million lottery prize. He said the win­nings would go toward the defense of his son, who has been in jail since the 1993 fatal beating of 78-year-old Mollie Mae Frazier. The younger Brancaccio, who turned 18 on Sunday, told police he began hitting the woman with his boombox after she criticized the rap music he was playing, according to court records. Torres last week urged a delay so the family could raise the $75,000 needed to pay psychiatrists to testify about the effects of a drug, prescribed by a hospital doctor, that Brancaccio was taking. The family will get more than $141,000 a year in lottery winnings for the next 20 years, though they hadn't yet produced the winning ticket Wednesday. It must be verified before they can claim their winnin s. 
Atlanta  58  48  Dallas  38  34  New Orleans 55  49  
Baltimore 51  41  Denver  18  14  New York  44  36  
Boston  29  27  Los Angeles 65  57  Philadelphia 46  41  
Chicago  23  10  Miami  86  69  Phoenix  70  56  
Columbus 40  28  Minneapolis 11  -03  St. Louis  30  19  


......----------------------~---~---------------~----------------­
Thursday, March 2, 1995 
• CAMPUS BRIEF 
The University of Notre Dame fell to the University o Illinois last weekend in the championship match of the 1995 College Bowl regional tournament at Quincy (Ill.) College. 
Notre Dame was represented by senior captain Sean Mauer of Troy, Ohio, and his class­mates, Tyler Hower o Huntington, Ind.; Matthew Fischer of Mesa, Ariz.; and David Dietrich of Phoenix, Ariz. 
Hower was voted by other competitors to the regional all­star team and captained that team to a come-from-behind victory in an exhibition game. 
Created in 1953, the College Howl is the world's longest running general knowledge quiz competition. Teams com­prised of four students from colleges across the country compete in a question-and­unswer game that tests knowl· edge in a variety of subjects. Dubbed the ''varsity sport o the mind," the College Bowl was televised weekly from 1959-70. 
The team from Illinois ad­vanced to the national t:hampi­onship competition to be held next month in Akron, Ohio. 
The Observer • NEWS page 3 


Gibson: not easy being male today 
By CHRISTY KENNY 
News Writer 

Present times are very am­biguous and problematic for males, according to J. William Gibson, an associate professor of sociology, who gave a lecture entitled "The Military and Mas­culinity," the final in a series on "Masculinity in the 1990s: The Social Construct of Being Male." 
Gibson addressed the ways in which American cultural mythologies of war have influ­enced actual warfare, and how both of these issues have formed masculine ideals and practices. He alluded to such figures as Daniel Boone and Buffalo Bill in western novels as shapers of the American warrior image, and followed this mythological ideal through­out history through actual and Hollywood-fostered examples as Ronald Reagan in his many war films, Chuck Norris, Sylvester Stallone, Mel Gibson, and Tom Cruise. 
The American warrior, said Gibson, is an adventurous indi­vidual far removed from and independent of society. Involvement in warfare pro­vides a means for separation from the mother, a way in which a boy can relinquish his dependence. 
Gibson cites this function as one of the most influential myths coming from the explo­sion of World War II films dur­ing the 1940s, '50s, and '60s. He said that these movies "show war as a ritual for the transition between boyhood and manhood, ... in which a man emerges from the war." 
Gibson is the author of three books, "Warrior Dreams: Paramilitary Culture in Post­Vietnam America", "Making War/Making Peace: Social Foundations in Violent Conflict," and "The Perfect War: Technowar in Vietnam." 
In his researching for "The Perfect War," he discovered through interviewing lower­ranked soldiers the profound influence of these mythological warrior ligures, many of whom cited John Wayne as an influential ideal. 
Gibson stated that during the war in Vietnam, this warrior ideal was shattered. "There was a profound rejection of the mythological World War II im­age-war as romance, war as ritual transition," he com­ments. 
Gibson informed his audience that, conversely, during the 1980s, an era of "covert action and intervention," the warrior­image peaked, bringing us into the Persian Gulf War. 
According to Gibson, present times are more sensitive to 


The Observer/ Michael Hungeling 

J. William Gibson spoke yesterday on the subject of "Masculinity and the Military" as part of a series of lectures on masculinity. 
gender needs, yet the 1990s and sensitivity to the situation are still a "time of ambiguity," of the male today and suggest­filled with gender tension and ed that this would allow people homosexual discrimination in to take a closer look at brutal the military. He called for pub-warfare and work together for lie affirmation of this ambiguity new solutions. 
New council designed to improve student relations, communication 
By DEBORAH SCHULTZ believes in. News Writer The Student Relations Council is an outreach of the Gender 
The Student Relations Council Relations Committee that Hall is something Freshman Class Presidents' Council Co-Chair President Katie Beirne firmly Rich Palermo and Student 
Union Board Representative 
you Prepared? THE ~ We are. :UN = 
800/865-7737 The Answer To Standardized Tests 
R.eview is 001 allilillted wid! 




TRAVEL EMERGENCY KIT 


Available at 

Serving You Comes First 
Bridget Conley have designed to "serve as an outlet for stu­dent complaints, to plan activi­ties, and to improve student life," said Beirne. 
"On campus there have been concerns that not enough is being done for students. We want to act on a more personal level, to work with the Student Senate to organize activities dealing with gender issues. multi-cultural relations, and Saint Mary's relations," said Beirne. 
Palermo and Conley wrote a constitution for the council, which was taken to the Hall Presidents' Council Tuesday night. Due to some oppostion, the vote was put otT until next Tuesday. If passed at HPC, the amendment will then be taken to Student Senate. 
"A lot of what we are doing right now is research and get· ting a feel for what students want. If passed, this year we will do a lot of planning, orga­nizing and getting people in­volved,. and then next year have the actual activities," said Beirne. 
Making this council work is so important to Beirne that she chose not to run for Class Council in order to devote her full time and energy to this. 
"I didn't run for a class posi­tion because I want to organize this council, and it is a huge re­sponsibility. A concern on cam· pus is that leaders are involved in so much that they can't focus on specific issues," said Beirne. 
In an attempt to involve many students, the council will con­sist of one representative from each dorm, and anyone else who would like to take part. 
"We are encouraging a wide variety of students so that we can live up to our mission state­ment. Hopefully, we will get as many people involved as possi­ble and do exactly what we have set out to do," said Beirne. 
-~­ ~-­-­ 
page 4  The Observer • NEWS  Thursday, March 2, 1995  



Rally 
continued from page 1 
pus event. DuLac prohibits un­recognized student groups from sponsoring campus events. 
"We didn't want to endanger various groups (on campus)," said Kolly. 
Kolly is hoping for a large turnout, perhaps larger than the February 10 march on the administration, which drew over 300 h'rlndred faculty. staff and students. "We're hoping for sizable attendance," said Kolly. 
Student government will start a petition drive at the rally. By signing the document, students can show their displeasure with recent administration actions, said Kolly. Student Government will continue the 
petition drive after the rally. 
The rally itself will include a combination of speakers, prayer, and readings from the several petitions that campus organizations have passed con­demning the administration's ban of GLND/SMC from using the University Counseling Cen­ter for group meetings. Among those scheduled to speak are Mark Jordan, associate profes­sor at the Medieval Institute, Dave Hungeling and Matt Or­sagh, student body president and vice-president, Ed Win­genbach, president of the Graduate Student Union, Ava Collins, Assistant Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, and a representative from the Cen­ter for Social Concerns. Sister Kathleen Beatty, rectress of Lyons Hall will offer an open­ing prayer. 


Tickets 
continued from page 1 
things necessary. We feel that it is our duty as citizens to do this." 
If elected, the ticket will also work on more publicity for ath­letes, better hours at the infir­mary, more 24-hour study space in residence halls, and changing the current dance policy that requires students to be at the residence hall dances by 10 p.m. 
"We want to make Saint Mary's a place we're proud to call home," Cherubini said. 
"Because of our current experience, we have done our homework on all of the issues and know how to make things work. We want to expand on many of the things we've done this year." 
The Hooper ticket wants to "Pioneer Change" in 1995-96. 
"We really want to harness all that the women of Saint Mary's have to offer via reli­gion, social activities, volun­teering and physical activities," said Richter. 
Their ticket consists of three categories: Residence Hall im­provements, policy changes, and RHA sponsored activities. 
If elected, the Hooper ticket would like to purchase more VCR's and establish a video li­brary for each dorm. They also plan on purchasing more cook­ing equipment and games. 
The ticket is planning to ex­plore a missed-meal option, es­corted males in the tunnels. an improved housing lottery sys­tem and extended availability to LeMans east door. 
The Hooper ticket would also like to establish an end of the year rummage sale, October­fest, and sister/sister halls to improve relations at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
"I hope that everyone at Saint Mary's realizes that voting is a privilege and makes sure to voice their opinion," she con­tinued. 
Voting will be held in the Saint Mary's dining hall at all meals on Frl.. March 3. 




LITTLE MILTON 
appearing at 

ALUMNI/SENIOR CLUB 
Thursday, March 2 
and 



CORBY'S 

Friday, March 3 

Housing 
continued from page 1 

er and dryer to the floor as well, according to Miller. 
The floor will consist of 24 singles, 9 doubles, one triple, two quads, and one quint. These numbers were deter­mined by the response of po­tential residents at the meet­ings on Feb. 20 and 21. 
Tenyer believes that early in the year there will be a great amount of curiosity by under­classmen as to the mystery behind the fourth floor, just as there has been with Augusta. ''I'm not sure how the conver­sion of the fourth floor will affect the dorm as a whole. I will do my best to give them their privacy, but I don't want to alienate them either." 
Both Tenyer and Miller ex­pressed the importance of stu­dent feedback, because it is the students who will make or break the housing option. 
Underclassmen will be af­fected by the trickle effect. Miller says the class ratios in each dorm may be slightly al­tered, although that cannot be determined until all seniors complete their room selections on March 26. 

Retrial 
continued from page 1 

No date for a trial or a hear­ing to determine a trial date have been set. Judge Albright hinted at an August trial date during last week's hearing. 
The South Bend Tribune's Marti Heline contributed to this report. 
T 


eO 


server 

the Advertising Department is now accepting applications for 
dvertising Account Executives 
Are you creative? Do you like working with people? Do you want experience in sales? Do you need some cash? join us! 
Submit a one page statement with resume to John Potter in 314 LaFortune by Spring Break. Call John at 1-6900 or 4-1 023 with uesttons. 
This year, I will get wasted every weekend. 
I

I prom1se to drink so much that 
I'll puke my guts out every time. 
Drunk will be my middle name. 
And  lastly,  I  Iprorn1se  
that  every  time  I  drink  
I'll  be  the  one  to  drive  everyone home.  

Yeah, right! what do ya think I am some kinda 

Sponsored by the Office ofAlcohol &Drug Education 
©1994 The Wei/ness Center at UIC 
_, ---~-------------~-~----~-----~ Thursday, March 2, 1995 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page 5 

Indiana House passes daylight savings 
eluded a proposal authored by now places all Eastern Time Rep. Dale Grubb, D-Covington, Zone counties -except the five to exclude five counties -Ver­excluded by Grubb -on day­million, Parke, Vigo, Warren light-saving time. and Fountain -from daylight Espich. R-Uniondale, had be­time. lieved his bill was all but dead 
And in the shuffling of and apparently was unaware of amendments, no one seemed to the mix-up. notice a quirk in the phrasing The daylight-saving provision that repealed the statute still could be stripped in the excluding Indiana from Eastern House, but at this stage such a daylight time. move would require a superma­
Lawmakers, believing they jority of 6 7 votes in the 1DO­were voting only on a referen­seat chamber. dum, passed the bill approving "Might be successful, might Eastern daylight time, 54-45. not be successful," said Grubb. 
Bill drafters say the measure "Sixty-seven votes is a lot." 
Smith to enter guilty plea, insanity defense 
New York hotel burns, 25 injured 
By RICHARD PYLE 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

A basement fire spread smoke through the luxurious New York Palace Hotel this morning, forcing hundreds of employees and guests to evacu­ate, some in their bare feet. Twenty-five people suffered minor injuries. 
Fire officials said the minor blaze shorted out electrical cir­cuits, causing other fires on three other floors where the hotel's maintenance rooms and offices are located. 
Many guests had checked out or had left the 54-story building on business by the time the fire began, said spokesman Richard Chambers. The hotel at 51st and Madison has 963 rooms and was 70 percent occupied Tuesday evening, he said. 
No flames or smoke were vis­ible from the street. 
Some of those evacuated were taken across the street to St. Patrick's Cathedral to stay warm in the 39-degree weath­er. 
Others milling around on the street were given doormen's overcoats and waiter's jackets, and the hotel handed out black­and yellow-checkered socks for people who left without shoes. 
Carlos Beccaceci, 40, of Ar­gentina posed for photogra­phers in a T -shirt, striped un­dershorts, boots and a sports­coat. 
Fire Department Chief of Op­erations Donald Burns said the fire was extinguished by noon. 
The fire department and Emergency Medical Services said the 25 injured included six firefighters. Most suffered smoke inhalation and one per­son had an electrical burn. 
The building had been owned by Harry and Leona Helmsley but went bankrupt in 1991 and reopened as the New York Palace. It is owned by Amadeo Hotels Corp. in Singapore. 
By THOMAS WYMAN 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 

The Indiana House voted unwittingly Wednesday to place most of the state on Eastern daylight-saving time. 
The mistake left Speaker Paul 
S. Mannweiler, R-Indianapolis, scrambling for a fix u~der pres­sure from lawmakers who say their constituents don't like changing their clocks. 
"What time is it?" Hep. R. Michael Young, H-Indianapolis, asked mockingly after the blun­der was discovered. 
The mix-up apparently oc­curred after Rep. Ron Tabaczynski, D-Hammond, of­fered a proposal earlier this week for a non-binding statewide referendum on whether Indiana should be in­cluded in the Central Time Zone. 
The House approved the Tabaczynski amendment, be­lieving it substituted for Rep. Jeffrey K. Espich's proposal to put 82 counties on Eastern day­light time. 
But the amended bill still in-

When the Great 
American Dream isn't great enough 
Have you considered 

THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 631-6385 

ByJESSE J. HOLLAND 
Associated Press 

UNION. S.C. 
Susan Smith may plead guilty but mentally ill or pursue an in­sanity defense to charges that she drowned her two young sons after claiming they had been abducted by a carjacker, her lawyers said today. 
In response to a judge's dead­line to disclose their strategy, the attorneys filed a two-para­graph notice to prosecutors saying Mrs. Smith "remains unable to enter any plea to the charges against her." 
Attorneys David Bruck and· 
Recycle The Observer 
A Continuing Series for Graduate Students 
Presenting 

Dominic Vachon, Ph.D. 
Discussing 

CONlFLXCT: 

"YOU'1RE IUGX-llT --I'M 1RIGlllT! WHAT ARE WE GOJlNG TO JDO ABOUT XT NOW?" 

This workshop focuses on techniques for recognizing and working through "conflicts" which occur between roommates and which arise in r-elationships and friendships. 


Date: Sunday, March 5th Time: 4:00 p.m. -5:00 p.m. At: Fischer/01Hara Grace Community Center 
Sponsored by: The University Counseling Center Fischer /01Hara-Grace Campus Ministry University Village 


Judy Clarke didn't explain their statement about their client, who confessed to the slayings and could be sentenced to death if convicted. 
Circuit Court Judge William Howard ordered Mrs. Smith to be examined by state doctors to determine her competence. Her lawyers had opposed such an examination until Tuesday, say­ing the results could be used against Mrs. Smith. They also had refused to specifically say what defense they would use. 
Mrs. Smith faces two counts of murder in the Oct. 25 deaths of her sons, Michael, 3, and Alex, 14 months. 
A verdict of guilty or guilty but mentally ill would allow jurors to decide on the death penalty. The death penalty wouldn't be an option if she were found innocent by reason of insanity. 
The notice to prosecutors about the possible defense strategies isn't binding, Prose­cutor Tommy Pope said. 
For nine days, Mrs. Smith claimed a carjacker had taken her sons. She confessed Nov. 3 to letting her car roll into John 
D. Long Lake with the boys strapped into their seats. 
Pope contends Mrs. Smith was sane the night the boys died. 




Global Internship and Language Programs 
I 
~

/. 
.,"f.' 

International Pro~ams 
For program dttal/s compkt• tht coupon /ulow and mallltiD: 
Boston University International Programs 
132 Bay State Road, Box Q, Boston, MA 02215 • 617/353-9888 
Please rank as 1,2, and 3 lhe programs in which you w:e most interested. 
You will =eive infonnation on all of our international prognuns. 
Internship Programs Language and Liberal Arts Programs 
DLondon, England D Paris, France D Belize D Niamey, Niger 
DMadrid, Spain DSydney, Australia DGrenoble, Frnnce DOxford, England 
DMoscow, Russia D Washington, D.C. D Haifa. Israel DPadova,llllly 
DBeijing, China D Madrid, Spain DQuito, Ecuador 
D Dresden, Gennany D Venice, Italy 
Other programs/countries in which I am interested: ___________ 
I would like to receive iorormatioo about your semester/summer programs (circle one). 
Nmre ______________________ 
S~et 

____________ City _________ 
State-----Zip-----Phone.....,___,_______ 


Thursday, March 2, 1995
page 6 The Observer • NEWS 




Doctors remake AIDS-infected immune systems
,,.By DANIEL HANEY fected with the virus but had Healthy people have between \-' Associated Press not yet developed AIDS. 800 and 1,200 helper T cells 
Some patients have been tak­per cubic millimeter of blood. 
BOSTON ing it for up to 3 1/2 years with These levels fall during the 
Doctors have shown for the no sign of waning effectiveness course of an AIDS infection. first time they can rebuild the -something no other medicine The study found that IL-2 can immune systems of people in­has accomplished. drive T cells back up again, but fected with the AIDS virus. dra­Other treatments, such as the only if people still have at least 
matically increasing the blood drug AZT, attack the virus di­400 cells per cubic millimeter cells that HIV destroys. rectly. While this may tem­to start with. Among 10 
The AIDS virus typically takes porarily spare T cells from de­patients described in the study, 10 years to kill a person. Dur­struction, allowing them to re­six responded to the treatment ing this time. the virus relent­bound modestly, the drugs with at least 50 percent lessly destroys a variety of dis­quickly lose their punch. White­increases in their helper cells. ease-fighting white blood cells cell levels fall again. One patient's levels rose from called helper T cells. The new treatment carries a 554 to 1,998. 
If the new treatment works as serious drawback -side In all, the doctors have treat­doctors hope, it could tip the effects that mimic a severe case ed about 100 patients, and the balance in favor of the body, of flu. Furthermore, results look consistently good in allowing it to produce these researchers have not tested it people whose T cells had not cells faster than the virus can long enough to be able to prove already been depleted. kill them. that it actually helps patients "You stimulate the cells, let 
stay healthy longer. them rest, and they grow," Source: Dr. H. Clifford Lane AP/Karl Gude; research, Dawn Desilets 
"This is the first time I truly in my gut feel excited" about an "While extremely provoca­Lane said. 

Dr. Robert Schooley of the are." 
AIDS treatment, said Dr. H. tive, it remains to be shown However, among people with University of Colorado noted The side effects typically last Clifford Lane, a researcher at that this will translate into very low levels of helper T cells, that some doctors are routinely about two weeks. While not the National Institute of Allergy resistance to opportunistic especially under 200, the treat­using it for AIDS without un­life-threatening, they are severe and Infectious Diseases who infections or prolongation of ment might actually be danger­derstanding the hazards for and often include rash, fever,reported his findings in Thurs­life," said Dr. William Paul, ous, since it triggers an initial people with very low cell aches, diarrhea and fatigue. 
day's issue of the New England head of federal AIDS research. burst of virus production but counts. "No patient has ever said,Journal of Medicine. A key to the new treatment fails to boost the immune sys­''I'd be the last one to say you 'This wasn't as bad as you toldThe new approach involves appears to be its intermittent tem. 
should wait until the FDA puts me it would be,"' Lane said. 
on-and-off infusions of inter­use. Once every two months, IL-2, a genetically engineered its seal of approval on every He said it eventually may be leukin 2, a natural protein that doctors give patients a five-day drug, has already been ap­therapy before you use it," he possible to reduce the ill effects regulates the body's immune continuous dose of IL-2, which proved by the Food and Drug said. "But on the other hand, if by using lower doses and givingdefenses. It worked only in requires them to be attached to Administration for treatment of you go ahead with this, you'd them less often. 
those patients who were in-an infusion pump. kidney cancer. 

better know what the data 
CAMPUS MINISTRY••• 
•••CONSIDERATIONS 
DYING AND RISING DURING THIS LIFE 

It's Lent once again. 
Simply put, Lent is about preparing to die and to rise. In a special way, Lent is a period of intensified preparation for Catechumens, those who wish to die and to rise to a new way of living through Baptism. (Baptism, especially in the early Church, was like dying and rising, because people were submerged under water completely and would rise from it.) These people literally prepare to receive the Sacrament of Baptism which will take place at the end of Lent, during the Easter Vigil. Yet, Lent is a period ofpreparation and conversion for all of the baptized because we realize that our Baptism did not mark the end of our conversion, but rather the beginning of it. 
The life ofJesus was a life spent proclaiming the nearness of God and the need for people to open their eyes to it. To this day, Jesus calls people to conversion by the way he lived, died, and lives anew. 
Jesus lived out the conversion meant for all of us. We are called by Jesus to die to narrow and unnecessarily limited ways ofliving in order to live a new life of freedom. In this way, the life ofJesus shows us that dying and rising again begins during this life. The reign of God begins now. 
Lent is a season during which we are reminded of our need for continual conversion. We do not always open our eyes to God. We sometimes spend more energy on protecting ourselves from death than we do on actually living. At times, we limit the good in us and the good we can do for others. We do not pay enough attention to those who are lonely or to those who suffer because we are so concerned with protecting ourselves from pain. 
In the end, this emphasis on self-protection would be what 
kills us. 
Lent is a season during which we are reminded of our need to 
stop protecting ourselves from reality. Instead, we are reminded of our call to enter into reality by remembering how Jesus entered into the reality of his day. Because Jesus' lifestyle was based on self-donation and not self-absorption, he died the kind of death that does not put an end to life, but changes it. That does not mean it was easy. Jesus suffered. Jesus cried. Jesus begged God to keep him from dying. 
What makes Jesus so significant for us is that he was both very human and very God. He was human, and he probably died many little deaths on the way to the Cross. Yet, the love of Christ could not be limited or killed. His death calls us to die little deaths so that we might live more freely and more generously. His death calls us to die to narrow-mindedness. His death calls us to die to coldheartedness. His death calls us to die to self-centeredness. His death calls us to die to a life based on self-protection. 
May we continue the conversion process which began at our Baptism. The reign of God begins now. Our rising from the dead is supposed to begin now. Our new life of freedom for service to those who suffer the most is supposed to begin now. 
Robert Dowd, CS 
STATIONS OF THE CROSS Fridays During the Season of Lent 7:15p.m., Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
FIRST SUNDAY OF LENT 
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica 
Sat. Mar. 4 5:00 p.m. Rev. Richard Warner, C.S.C. 
Sun. Mar. 5 10:00 a.m. Rev. Richard Warner, C.S.C. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. Richard Warner, C.S.C. 



Thursday, March 2, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 7 

Barings collapses, potential buyers line up Clinton 




The Observer 

is looking for Assistant Advertising Manager 

Do you want experience in sales, publishing, management and good times? Apply for Assistant Ad Manager by 5 pm, Sunday, March 5! Call John Potter@ 1-6900 or 4-1023 with questions. Submit a 1-2 page statement with resume to 314 LaFortune. 

TheUniversity of' Notre Dame 19th Annual Fashion Show 
NV RARE ·v FORM 
March 4th. -1995 Stepan Center Showtime 7:30p.m. -Doors Open at 6:30p.m. 
Tickets: Students $6.00 o Non-Students $8.00 at the door $10.00 
Proceeds will go to the: Thurgood Marshall Scholarship Fund The Center for the Homeless 
Northwestern For afree copy of the Summer Session '95 Summer Session '95 
catalog, call 1-800-F1NDS NU (in Illinois, 
call 708-491-5250), fax your request to 
708-491-3660, e-mail your request to




Everything 
summer95@nwu.edu, or mail this coupon 
to Summer Session '95, 2l15 North
under the sun. 
Campus Drive, Suite 162, Evanston, Illinois 
60208-2650.
At Northwestern's Summer Session at Northwestern, where you can study 
you'll find the same variety ofcourses almost ever}thing under the sun. Send the catalog to 0 my home 0 my school. 
North\\-eslem is an equal opponuniry, affirmath·e aclion educalor and 
we offer during the rest of the year:  
more than 300 courses in everything  Noteworthy in '95: Field schools in  
Name  
from anthropology to stor)1elling. Each  archaeology, emironmental studies,  
summer students from all over the  ethnography, and urban studies and a  School Address  
country earn a full year's credit in our  six-week program in Prague.  City  State  Zip  
intensives in chemistry, physics, and  Home Address  
languages. Consider Summer Session  For more information, please call  City  State  Zip  
1-800-FINDS NU.  

emplorer. 
Associated Press. Published reports said Leeson criticizes 
Nick Leeson, the 28-year-old was given the unusual leeway British securities dealer ac­partly as an efficiency measure cused of breaking Barings with by the bank. 
isolationism bad bets on arcane futures con­In addition, London's Daily tracts, is on the run with his Telegraph reported, Leeson's wife, Lisa, in Southeast Asia. wife worked in the bank's back­By DONALD ROTHBERG News reports suggested she office in Singapore, which was Associated Press may be his accomplice. supposed to monitor his activi­
Despite the buying interest, ties. WASHINGTON court-appointed administrators Barings refused to discuss President Clinton portrayedhaven't said whether they will Mrs. Leeson's job. foreign policy differences with 
try to sell Barings whole or in The hunt for Leeson and his the Republican majority in segments. wife stretched from their luxury Congress Wednesday as a 
First, they need to stem losses condo in Singapore to Malaysia struggle between those who in Asian futures markets esti­to Thailand to Indonesia. want to continue U.S. leader­mated at $1 billion at the start The couple disappeared from ship and "those who advocate of the week. The administrators their apartment Thursday, as a new American isolationism." said they have begun closing the trading irregularities be­"The new isolationists are out some of the deals in which came known. wrong," he said in remarks Leeson gambled millions that In London, regulators are in­prepared for delivery at a fo­Tokyo stock prices would rise. vestigating how much man­rum sponsored by the Nixon 
On offer are Barings' securi­agers at Barings knew about Center for Peace and Freedom. ties business, respected for its Leeson's activities, said a Bank Republican leaders precededresearch and trading opera­of England spokesman. him and Senate Majoritytions, its corporate finance arm, The Independent newspaper Leader Bob Dole criticized the and the fund management sub­of London said executives at administration for "misguidedsidiary, which last year had $46 Barings in London knew a devotion" to Russia and what billion invested on behalf of month ago about Leeson's dis­he called a failed policy in 
clients. astrous deals, and authorized Bosnia and mistakes in dealingLeeson was apparently al­$70 million in payments to try with Iraq and North Korea. lowed to police his own trading to cover them. Dole accused the administra­operations as both the chief The bank's chairman, Peter tion of "timidity" for not trader and the account settler Baring, has said he knew noth­threatening to veto any U.N. at Barings' Singapore futures ing of the problems before last effort to lift economic sanc­
operation. Friday. 
Engagement Rings 
10%-15% OFF! Official Wholesale Price List! 

S.A. Peck & Co. SSE. lfiuhington, Chicago, IL 60602 For a F'tw 32-Pagt Color C41t41ot 

1/Jll-Frtt (800} 922-0090 FAX (312} 977-0248 lnttmtt Cotalotat bttp: 1/w-.sapect.com!Japeclc 
tions against Iraq. Anthony Lake, White House national security adviser, countered that Dole's criticism was "unfounded on the facts." He said U.N. Ambassador Madeleine Albright had told other governments that Clinton would veto such a resolution. 
Legislation passed two weeks ago by the House that would cut back U.S. support for U.N. peacekeeping activities has been attacked by the adminis­tration as isolationist and like­ly to destroy the United Nations as a tool for dealing with trouble spots around the world. 
Clinton said the legislation would "deny resources to peacekeepers and even to our troops and squander them on Star Wars," the space-based missile defense system first proposed by President Reagan. 
He said the approach would "weaken America. We must not let the ripple of isolation­ism they have generated build into a tidal wave. If we with­draw from the world today. we will have to contend with the consequences of our neglect tomorrow." 
There is far less support for the legislation in the Senate. Dole never mentioned the United Nations or peacekeep­ing, but his speech had a strongly internationalist tone. 
The Kansas Republican, ex­pected to formally enter the 1996 presidential race in April, quoted Nixon as saying that "the Soviets have lost the Cold War, but the United States has not yet won it." 
Dole described a troubled world that "will test America's resolve and her leadership. If we fail those tests, if we refuse the mantle of leadership ­any declaration of victory will be a long time coming." 
The senator recalled that he was an early supporter of Boris Yeltsin, back when the Bush administration was back­ing Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev. 

By KARIN DAVIES 
Associated Press 
LONDON 

Financial powerhouses that once competed with Barings PLC are circling its traumatized businesses, deciding whether to buy parts of the famed bank reduced to penury by a lone trader who is now a fugitive. 
Barings confirmed Wednes­day that more than a dozen potential buyers from Europe to Wall Street have expressed in­terest in picking up pieces of Britain's oldest investment banking firm, which collapsed Sunday in one of history's biggest financial intrigues. 
Some of the shoppers include the Wall Street firm Morgan Stanley and Co., ABN Amro Bank of the Netherlands and National Westminster Bank of London. 
However, none of the firms has made a firm offer. 
"It's a very delicate and hopefully wonderful rescue op­eration," Barings spokeswoman Debra Douglas told The 

page 8 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, March 2, 1995 
Salinas accused of murder 
By ANITA SNOW 
Associated Press 
MEXICO CITY 

The brother of former Presi­dent Carlos Salinas de Gortari was behind bars today, accused of masterminding the assassi­nation of a reformist leader in the ruling PRJ party. 
The arrest of Raul Salinas de Gortari in connection with the Sept. 28 murder of Jose Fran­cisco Ruiz Massieu outside a Mexico City hotel was viewed as a courageous act in a country where family and political ties have long been considered sa­cred and the powerful immune from prosecution. 
"No one is above the law," special prosecutor Pablo Chapa Bezanilla said in announcing the arrest Tuesday. 
The arrest may well boost the credibility of Mexico's new president, Ernesto Zedillo, who has been battered by an eco­nomic crisis, rebel problems in the south and charges of weak leadership almost since he took office three months ago. 
Suspicions about lagging in­vestigations in the Ruiz Massieu case and in the March 23 mur­der of PRI presidential candi­date Luis Donaldo Colosio in Ti­juana have eroded the govern­ment's credibility with the pub­lic as well as among some in­vestors. 
By arresting his predecessor's brother, Zedillo has "shaken a political tradition that was doing much damage to the country," said Sen. Gabriel Jimenez Remus of the opposi­tion National Action Party. 
Mandela 
•


mansion raided 
By TOM COHEN 
Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG 

A month ago, President Nel­son Mandela pledged that his government would root out corruption wherever it was found. 
On Wednesday, that pursuit led police to the Soweto man­sion of Mandela's estranged wife, Winnie, and to the homes and offices of her associates. 
Wielding search warrants, the officers raided the proper­ties and seized records in an investigation of alleged bribe­taking and influence-peddling. 
Although no warrant has been issued for Mrs. Mandela's arrest, it was the most serious investigation involving a mem­ber of Mandela's government. The opposition Democratic and National parties both urged that she be suspended from her post as deputy Cabinet minister for arts, culture, science and technology. 
Mrs. Mandela was in Abidjan, Ivory Coast, when she heard about the raid. She immediate­ly cut short a 10-day trip to West Africa, and was expected back in the country Thursday. 
"The allegations the police have made against me leave me astounded and unspeakably angry," Mrs. Mandela said in a statement read by her lawyer. "I see this action, which was very clearly designed to attract the maximum possible public­ity, as part of an ongoing cam­paign to discredit me." 
On her lawyer's advice, Mrs. Mandela refused to answer any questions. 
Aidid's minions raid Mogadishu airport 
By REID G. MILLER Assoda«:d Pr~:s~ 

MOGADISHU, Somalia 
Warlord Mohamed Farrah Aidid's mili~iamen swept into the Mogadishu airport Wednesday, ()basing awaypacks of looters and tilling the voidJeft by a retreating U.N. mission. 
.· · Arri.etic~;~.n and Italian troops watcll.ed from the nearby dunes while the militiamen loyal to Aidid, who once car* ried a $2.5,000 U.N. price on his.· head.' roared through the airport gates in stripped-down trucks and jeeps mounted with heavy weapons. 
After the last U.N. peacekeepers left. the airstrip in the morning. hundreds of looters swarmed over walls and barbed-wire fences to pick over wooden pallets and what little else remained. 
American and Italians troops protecting the withdrawal of Pakistani peacekeepers ner­vously watched the looting. Ri· fle shots rang out. most fired by militiamen as they shooed away looters. 
The sprawling se.aside air· field looked like a hurricane hit it after the looters, a motley collection that was mostly young and female Somalis, many in long red skirts, fin· ished carting off the remains. 
Empty wooden pallets seemed particularly in demand, perhaps as construc­tion material in this dirt-poor country. Leftover pieces of lumber and discarded cabinets were also scooped up. 
No looters were hit by gun· fire. The Americans, Italians and Pakistanis, who were evac­uating three miles away to the seaport for their return home, suffered no casualties and fired only a few warning shots. 
Aidid's action pre-empted an attempt by Somali business­men and elders to form a multi-factional committee to operate the airport and seaport after the United Nations' departure. 
Hundreds of Bangladeshi 
U.N. peacekeepers sailed off singing Tuesday to end a frus­trating tour of duty in a coun­try so riven by clan warfare that world powers have given up trying to help. 
The arrest of the former pres­ident's brother serves too as a major show of political in­dependence by Zedillo, who until now has been accused of being weak. 
No motive was ever given for the murder of Ruiz Massieu, the No. 2 man in the long-ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI. More than a dozen people, including a lone gunman who confessed to slay­ing the PRI's secretary-general, were arrested. 
But the man federal police accuse of organizing the mur­der -PRI congressman Manuel Munoz Rocha -is a fugitive and some suspect he too may have been killed. 
The special prosecutor said Tuesday that the last place Munoz Rocha visited before vanishing was Raul Salinas' house. After going into hiding, one of two known phone calls he made was to Raul Salinas. 
The arrest of Raul Salinas, 48, comes just four days after the attorney general's office an­nounced it had arrested a sec­ond gunman in the murder of Colosio. Until his death at a campaign rally in Tijuana, Colosio had been the favorite to succeed Carlos Salinas as presi­dent. 

With the political vacuum caused by the death, Carlos Salinas then turned to Zedillo as his handpicked PRJ candi­date. Zedillo, an economist, went on to easily win the presi­dential contest. 
Carlos Salinas, president until Dec. 1, has insisted all along that his government was doing everything it could to investi­gate both assassinations. 
On Tuesday, he told the inde­pendent Television Azteca he had "full confidence" in his older brother's innocence. In a televised interview today, Car­los Salinas repeated support for his brother, saying it was "absurd" to suggest that any­one in his family might have wanted to kill Ruiz Massieu. 
People arrested in the Ruiz Massieu and the Colosio case each have had strong links to PRJ factions. The PRI, which has ruled Mexico since its 1929 founding, has experienced re­cent infighting between re­formers and the old guard. 
The PRJ said it backed Zedil­lo's efforts to clear up the Ruiz Massieu case, but rejected sug­gestions the party or its leaders had anything to do with the killing. 
P R I N C I P L E S of S 0 U N 0 R E T I R EM EN T I N V E S T I N G 

F
or fast relief from the nagging ache of taxes, As the nation's largest retirement system, we we recommend TJAA-CREF SRAs. SRAs are offer a wide range of allocation choices-from tax-deferred annuities designed to help build TIAA's traditional annuity, with its guarantees of additional assets-money that can help make the principal and interest, to the seven diversified difference between living and living ll'ell after your investment accounts of CREF's variable annuity. working years are over. What's more, our expenses are very low," which 
Contributions to your SRAs are deducted from means more ofyour money goes toward improving your salary on a pre-tax basis. That lowers your your future financial health. current taxable income, so you start saving on taxes To find out more, call our planning specialists at right away. What's more, any earnings on your 1 800 842-2888. We'll send you a complete SRA SRAs are also tax-deferred until you receive them information kit, plus a free slide-calculator that as income. That can make a big difference in how shows you how much SRAs can lower your taxes. painful your tax bill is every year. Call today-it couldn't hurt. 


Ensuring the future for those who shape it.s• 
0 StmuJart) c.? Poor:, /,,,,,.tmct Rllttl~q Amt~wi.,, 1994; Lipper Analytical Services, Inc., Lipp(r-IJiiYflt,r.t' Ana/.vtical Dt~la, 1994 (Quarterly). CREF certificates are distributed by TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Servi~s, Inc. For more complete infOrmation, includi~g charges and expenses, call I 800-842-2733, ext. 5509 lor a CREF prospectus. Read the prospectus carefully before you invest or send money. 


VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, March 2, 1995 page 9 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, None Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in·Chief jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager john Lucas Joseph Riley 

News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Ed'tor ........................ Sm.anne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Spons Editor .................... George l>ohrmann Production Manager .............. , ... jacqueline Moser Act.:ent Editor ......................... Kris[a Nannery SySiems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan l'hoto Editor ....................... Scort Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Eiizabeth Regan Controller..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the srud<nts of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary·s College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of eith<r institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commtntarics, lcncrs and Inside Columns prcscm rhe views of the aurhors, and not necessarily rhosc of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. Th< free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
• SOCIETY WHIRL 
Fighting sins of the flesh 
People keep talking about bagels. an·d here it is Ash Wfldnesday. and I can't even comfort myself with Archie's rib tips. Their smoky crusts and rich, clingy strands of fat. Or I think of the prime rib sandwich at the University Club, with its two thick slices of gray-pink flesh. running with beef juices, and drenched fur­ther from the little ceramic cup of greasy fluid served on the side. Or 1 think of my days at a Boy Scout, 
Josh roasting sticks of pepperoni 
Ozerskyover the campfire, watching the elec­tric sparks of splattering fat eraekh1 festively in the silent night. 
This column is about meat. The Church says that on two holy days and on all Fridays in Lent, we are to do witho.ut it. Now, naturally, the depravity of the human heart being what it is, I always made these days oecasions for spectaeular feats of gluttony: vast iron pans full of golden crisp hash browns, cereal bowls of thick, starehy­sweet macaroni and cheese, whole pesto pizzas. It was a classic case of following the letter, but not the spirit. You know the story-whitened sep­ulchers, etc. 
And yet, the holy day still served its purpose. I felt as loathesomely self-indulgent as any libertine waking in a bed along side empty bottles and still-sleeping midget prosti­tutes. I was ashamed of my 
lewd desires, my unseemly longing for the crescent edges of pork chops, heavily breaded fried chicken skins, and blood­red planet-shaped hamburg­ers. Even the typical Rutgers gray slice of roast beef, with its mysterious iridescent sheen, seemed attractive. How low could I sink? Luckily, of course, Mother Church knows you can't go meat for long. Soon the clock would strike midnight, and I could liberate those long­frozen sausage patties from their frosty 

prison. 
Now 
ask you: is that the way a Christian is sup­posed to behave? 
If the Church really wanted to make things tough on you, they would specify what you had to eat. Because by allow­ing you, say, a grilled cheese sandwich, the thin edge of the spatula enters the process. First you start thinking about what kind of bread to use. White, with its orthodox tex­ture and symmetrical shape, or rye bread, with its rough resis­tance and gratifying heft? Would one use butter or mar­garine as the all important enriching agent? Orange American cheese, or white? And should the cheese, once cooked. be heated to a viscous paste, or an amorphous goo? Should one opt for a side-by­side open-face grilling, or opt for the trickier, but more re­warding, pre-constructed sandwich placed on a central grilling radius? Whatever the process. one thing was sure to the panting expectations: the arrival, so lasciviously imag­ined, of a light and buttery golden sandwich, its bread lit­tle more than a crisp, resistant (yet yielding!) transition from nervous, neurotic hunger to thick, hot, cheese-sated sybaritism. 

Now, if I could think that much about a grilled cheese sandwich, what was I to do with my fantasies about meat? How a few (say 4) slices of crisp bacon or a slice of browned Spam would fit in that grilled cheese sandwich, for instance? Or of the infuri­ating spectacle of an ill-con­structed grilled cheese and bacon, made with thick chewy bacon, and ruined by a first bite which pulls out all the bacon in a shameful messy lump, disemboweling the sand­wich and driving its maker to despair. Thinking about this disaster, my temples would be­gin to throb and I would long for the reek of smokehouse. 
Ah, humanity! The stuff of angels, held hostage to head­cheese and offal. Homer, too, knew the pleasure of biting into an explosive, taut Minoan wurst, and Virgil the Mantuan the joys of a melting beef­shank or the sizzling fat of a fire-blackened lamb chop. What did they know of the joys of heaven. except as they saw it reflected, endlessly, in a pool of cooling jus? 
What the price of deliver­ance? At what cost paradise? 
Josh Ozersky is a graduate student in history. His e-mai address is: joshua. a. ozer­sky.l@nd.edu 
• LEnER TO THE EDITOR 

What the world needs now is Gump, sweet Gump 
Dear Editor: 

I am writing in response to Josh Ozersky's eolumn "Gump's for Chumps" in which he explores the dichotomy between Forrest Gump and Pulp Fiction and states that Gump is not worthy of a Best Picture Oscar. This response is about Ozersky's assertions about the place of each film in modern society and what this means for the future. · 
Ozersky asserts that fans of Gump are "lamesters, squares. saps and ding-dongs" and that those who favor Pulp Fiction are the cool people. Such beliefs certainly seem within the mainstream of current thought in the same way that watching Fox and MTV are the cool. But Jet us examine which movie reflects currNlt society. Unfortunately, it is Pulp Fiction. Its messages about violence, gangs, drugs and sex are certainly endemic to our lives as evi­denced by watching any news cast. Violence and drugs plague inner-cities and images of sex and sexuality pervade all aspects of our culture. I cannot argue with Ozersky that Pulp Fiction repre· sents the current state of America. 
However, the larger question remains: Is this really cool? Is this good? That is where the dichotomy between the films comes in and where I vehemently disagree with Ozersky. We have had enough of violence, drugs and the overdose of sexual images that are wrecking the fabric of society. Life in the inner-cities has come apart and the Government is desperately trying to keep it afloat. People have become self-centered, apathetic, and a-religious. Basic morals and values are eroding and movies like Pulp Hction -which glorify these negative traits only hasten and accentuate our decline. Forrest Gump is inspiring and uplifting and recounts many important moments in American history. It is about how someone can remain an upstanding, honest citizen and still suc­ceed with positive morals and values that remind us of times when these things did shape our lives. Ozersky dismisses these aspects as "an invitation for a Republican line-dance" and "an attempt to turn back the clock." That such a return to a moral society is viewed so negatively is evidence of how far we have fallen. 
Pulp Fiction clearly represents the current state of our society and the media and what is "cool." But is this good? Taking a look at the state-of-affairs provides strong indications that it is not. If we are to restore the intrinsic importance of values in our commu­nity, we must end this mind-set where violence and overdoses of sex are "cool" and immortalized in the mainstream media. This situation has to change. The media must do more than reflect so­ciety: it needs to portray positive social values and advance posi­tive role models and visions of our future. Instead the media per· petuates this culture of violence in movies like Pulp Fiction. which only continue the decline of fundamental values. Gump upholds morality and decency and is the kind of entertainment that we need to see more of in today's culture. 
JEFFREY O'DONNELL 
Senior 
Grace Hall 
•  000NES8URY  GARRY TRUDEAU  
FaiR YeARS CF HIGH ~001-I~ 5/MP/.-YTIXJMUCH 7lflrlPTATIOIV.' R:R. lHATR£A'XW, IM rH/CIAUYCAN­t£t/N6 !7CNIOR. >2fARI ~ ((  YOU /XJN'T! 7HAT5 JIETAN07H&R t:XCIJG/3 FOR APAF<TY/ I  

• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''Jt is better to be a fool than to be dead." 
-Robert Louis Stevenson 
page 10 Thursday, March 2, 1995

ACCENT 

T 
he sticker on the front of Sky Blues' newest release, Extended Play, reads, "one of the nation's top unsigned 

By CHRISTIAN STEIN, Music Critic 
Sky Blues' drummer finally gets a chance to play at Notre Dame 


hard rock bands." It is the band's second CD and fourth major recording release. Recently, I spent some time talking with Sky Blues drum­mer Greg de Sousa, a Notre Dame senior major­ing in Sociology and Theology. Along with his band mates, de Sousa, or Sous as he is com­monly known, hails from Scarsdale, New York. This common root has limited the band to tour­ing the east coast. However, it is extending its realm to include the midwest by appearing 
Friday Night at Senior Bar. 
You are labeled as a hard rock band. How do you classify Sky Blues' music? 
We've been compared to hard rock bands like Aerosmith, Led Zeppelin and The Rolling Stones. I guess that's pretty accurate since all four of us listen to them and they are definitely influences to our music but when you write you don't really think about them. 
So you think the classification is wrong? 
I'd say we are more of a classic rock based band. One thing we're definitely not is "alternative," and we're not "grungy." It's really hard to classify bands these days, and I'd rather leave it up to the audience to decide. 
Who writes your songs? 
Everyone writes, which is why it's difficult to label us as one type of music. Our singer, Marc, listens to everything from Hip Hop to Metal, and I listen to anything but Heavy Metal [grimaces]. This is impor­tant for us because there are so many other influ­ences that get into our music. Heck, I've played classical piano since I was four, and now I'm a drummer. Go figure. People have even compared us to bands like the Beastie Boys and Faith No More. 
Do you think that ifSky Blues makes it big, you'll disappear after a couple albums? 
I don't think so. We write so much and have so much material that hasn't been recorded yet that we'll definitely be around for a long time. Also, you have to be in the business for the right reasons. I love to play and write; when that stops being fun, that's when I'm done. 
Could you last as long as The Stones or Aerosmith? 
That would be awesome, but it's a long road. We've been writing together for seven years but only playing live for four. Other bands like Pearl Jam and Green Day that have recently made it big have been together for at least ten years. It takes time, like anything else, but in the music business it's so easy to disappear. 
Being at school must make it difficult to get as much practice and exposure as you'd like. 
It's been hard because practice time is actually null. I fly to the east coast, meet up with them, and it's cold turkey show time. All of us except one are still in school. Our guitarist/bassist Cliff graduated from NYU, and his brother John, who he alternates guitar and bass with, is a senior at American University in D.C. Our singer, Marc, is at The University of Rhode Island and is also a senior. 
So when you finish school, you'll be able to get more exposure. 
It'll give us time to get on the road, which is the best way to get known. We've been limited to the east coast, but now we'll be able to play nationwide. That's going to be great -every 2-3 days at a differ­ent college or town. I'm psyched. 
It seems that Sky Blues has had some good expo-
Photo courtesy of David Elkins 

Members of Sky Blues meet up this weekend to play on the Notre Dame campus. 
sure in the past. 

We've been on a couple of compilation albums. We were asked to be on a T.Rex Tribute Album, which was really cool. We were the only unsigned band asked, and they picked us to do the first song. It was a pat on the back because they thought we were that good and could open the CD, so to speak. 
What about the other compilation album? 
It's a compilation CD of twelve unsigned hard rock bands. I think we are the best out of all of them, but they were all hard core, double bass and all that crap, and it sucks to be compared to that because we're not like that. 
And Sky Blues' own albums? 
They're being sold at Tower Records which is awesome exposure, except not every city has a store. We're also in other select stores. We have national distribution, but being unsigned, it's tougher. 
What type of music is on the album Extended Play? 
All the songs are really diverse, except 
and encourage us to keep going. I'm confident that we'll make it. 
I guess graduating and playing full time will help. 
Absolutely, because we'll have more time to play gigs and concentrate everyday on what we love to do. We've done so much already, and it's great because we've been in school too. But school comes first for all of us. Even though I'm positive we'll make it, there's always the chance of not making it in this business. School will give us a solid back­ground to fall back on if it doesn't work out. 
Are you excited to finally play at Notre Dame? 
Definitely. I really like playing for students, and this will be a lot of fun because my friends will final­ly be able to see us. They've been hearing about it for three and a half years, and it's finally going to happen out here. It's great, because they relate to you better. It's the same when I see a band play; I like them more if they are my peers. It's the same with sports; I like college better than pro. I'm excit­ed, and now my friends will see a side of me which is so important to who I am. 
You're playing the sorts of things. same night as Tom The song "Daily Petty. What do you Grind" is about think about that? the homeless in Actually, we had NYC. "Ring a chance to open Around The for him. One of my Moon" is about band members' when you have so friend's uncle is much going on in Tom's guitarist. He your life -pain, gave us the option confusion, loss, to open, but we whatever it may declined. be -that you can't even explain it to Why? your best friend, It wouldn't have because it's all so been as much fun. confusing and Sure it would be messed up. Some amazing to play to 

things need to be kept inside; sometimes you really just don't know what your feelings are, or why you're feeling that way. 
It's definitely a great album, and the reviews have backed that up. Most of our reviews have said that: it's solid music followed by powerful lyrics, no gimmicks. just music. 
Have any record companies taken note ofthis? 
Back when we first started we made four copies of our tape, which eventually turned into thousands. Coming from Scarsdale, we had friends that knew people in important places in the industry, so the first tape, along with the second, got into good hands. 
So you were noticed right at the start. 
We got a lot of positive feedback from Geffen, Arista and other big labels, as well as some indepen­dents. At the time, they said we were too young and inexperienced, but they still show up at our shows 
10,000 people and say we opened for Tom Petty, but that's not the audience I wanted to gear ourselves to. We wanted to play for Notre Dame, and we figure there will be more students at Senior Bar. Plus, at bars people usually have more fun, and it's a more intimate set­ting. And the drinking never hurts either [grinning]. 
Do you have any final thoughts, maybe some advice for other up and coming bands? 
Yeah. If you have any doubts about making it, you aren't going to. As a band, we-have seen all the good and bad in this industry, and we've learned to avoid the bad. Listen to yourself, and do what you love. It's advice for anything anyone does in life. As long as you care about what you're doing, that's all that matters. Treat others how you want to be treated, and try not to hurt anyone along the way. 
Christian Stein's music review appears every other Thursday. 
Thursday, March 2, 1995 page II



ACCENT 
By DAVE TYLER 
Nrws Editor 
out or live 

***** 
IHtve it to Bruce 
Springsteen to go and do 
somdhing like this. Throughout his career, The Boss has IHH~n known as a nwticulous maker of music and a eardul craftsman who re­hmses albums only when he's good and n~ady. It is this atll~ntion to cohesion. thematic detail, and overall message that has produced sonw of rock and roll's firwst and most memo­rable albums: 13om to llun, The /liver, and Hom in the U.S.A. 
Now the Freehold, New .Jers1~y. native has v1mtured into tlw genre of can~er retrospec­tion with this week's rdease of his (;n~atest llits album, and lw's brought tlw E Strnet Band with him. Hather than just throwing togPtlwr twenty of his lwst songs and packaging them for sale, Springste1m has as­sembled a true album: a the­matic eolleetion of fourteen songs that ex<unirws a tremen­dously div1~rse history. He's tossed in four new songs to hoot. 
Separating himself from the dl'orts of people like Tom Petty, Billy Joel and The Eagles, whose albums had very little continuity, Springsteen has pro­duced a work that explores not only the commercial highs, but also the magnitude and breadth, of the subject matter lw has attacked throughout his brilliant eareer. 
Photo courtesy of Columbia 
Bruce Springsteen's Greatest Hits is a collection of old favorites and new delights. 
Springsteen would have been The anger builds to a feverish shot by angry fans if the first pitch with four tracks from ten tracks were not included. Born in the U.S.A.: the title cut, But the notable inclusion of "Dancing in the Dark," "My "Brilliant Disguise," "Human Hometown" and "Glory Days." Touch," "Better Days" help pro­Springsteen's moving retelling vide closure and purpose to this of the tragedy and trials of collection. It is easy to see how 1980s America resonates Springsteen moves topically deeply in these four songs. It is from the hopeful longing of a portrait of an anguished pop­"Born to Hun," and "Thunder ulation buried under the weight Hoad," to the prideful struggle of lost opportunity. of "Badlands," to the troubled The next segment explores times of "Hungry Heart," "The the most personal side of River" and the still poignant Springsteen's music. Hecently, "Atlantic City." his work has become more in­trospective and moved from darkness to happiness. The lost man of "Brilliant Disguise" is more than willing to tell you how happy he is in his new life in "Human Touch" and the al­most transparent "Better Days." 
But Springsteen is at his best when writing about pain and longing, and "Streets of Philadelphia" illustrates this perfectly. Easily the most touching and disturbing song of 1994, this one shows that Springsteen still realizes there is much work to be done. 
Saving the best for last, The Boss serves up a real treat for die hard fans and newcomers alike. There's something for everyone in the end of the al­bum's offerings. 
A reunion with E Street Band could easily have deteriorated into a schmaltzy half-ass affair. But the four "new" tracks indi­cate that Springsteen has plenty of good work left in him. 
"Secret Garden" is a probing ballad, exploring human sexu­ality in a way Springsteen never has. "Blood Brothers" has an almost Dylanesque twinge and shows just how happy Bruce was to get back together with his long time band mates. It almost crosses the line into corniness, but the listener is quickly willing to forgive when Clarence Clemons engages Bruce in a saxophone-to-har­monica duet during the outro. The lyrics are reminiscent of what a slow version of "No Surrender" might have sounded like. 
After finally hearing the 
mythical"Murder Incorporated," long time fans will wonder why this song never appeared anywhere, even as a b-side. Lost on the studio floor during the Born in the 
U.S.A. sessions, and widely bootlegged, this version of the song was supposedly just re­mastered, not re-recorded. The track is one of the darkest Springsteen has ever penned. "This liard Land" is another lost recording from the mid eighties. This is probably the one song Springsteen regrets never including on an album. Herecorded this January, it rings true whether you're trapped in the dust of corn country or as Springsteen calls it in the liner notes, in "the frontier town of NYC." "This Hard Land" is a powerful anthem to hope and persis­tence, and probably wasn't included on Born in the U.S.A. because of its deliant optimism. 
Hard core Springsteen fans will, without a doubt, find ways to be disappointed with the col­lection. No material from The Boss' first two studio albums was included, most notably the concert favorite "Hosalita." But Greatest Hits serves as a fitting monument to a stellar rocker. It illustrates the career-long bat­tle Springsteen has waged with popularity as he sought to keep his musical idealism. And while he's spent twenty-three years laying it all on the line for his fans, Greatest Hits proves there is still some great rock and roll left to come. This is a new idea in greatest hits albums: simply, a classic. 
• MUSIC CRITIC 

D
illon O'Brian, the opening act for tonight's Tracy Chapman concert. has just finished his debut solo album, Scenes From My Last Confession, solo work that he put together in about thme months. "My·one criterion for music is that it be honest," says O'Brian. More than anything, Scenes From My Last Confession is just that. Songs like "Catholic Boys," "My Father's Son," and "Unwanted Child" nxplore themes of the stronghold of religion, the close-knit care of a family. and turning from a son into a father. 0' Brian. originally a piano player. uti­lizt1S a number of musical styles on his debut. However, they are all stripped down and focus on a few instruments or his calm vocals in order to create "a nineties vHrsion of one of those great singer/song­writer albums of the seventies." In a recent telephone interviHw, O'Brian ehatted with me about his career, the upeorning tour and playing at Notre Dame. 
A 'Catholic Boy' for the nineties 
You've done work with artists such as Ringo Starr, Don Was. The Temptations, and Joe Cocker. How did you achieve the credibility to work with these musi· cians before even releasing any ofyour own? 
I started as a piano player when I came out here to 
L.A. My brother was here, and he connected me to the studio scene. I started out as a staff songwriter in 1989 and was working on demos. From those demos, I'd be brought in whenever someone was cutting one of my tunes. For example, with The Temptations, I actually did everything from top to bottom, but some­times I'd just be called in to play the organ or just arrange the background vocals. 
Do you feel that you achieved the experience needed to become a solo artist in the right way? 
Of course as a kid, I wanted to be a star. Then I got healthy. That need comes from empty spots that need adoration. I loved being a staff writer; I was working with my idols; it was very fulfilling. But I decided I wanted public records out of my demos. B.ut you know how almost everything on radio these days is over-the-top? I wanted to keep things always from going over-the-top. 
Your music is definitely very honest and autobio­graphical. Yet it is also touching and cynical... 
I was coming from years of cynicism. "Something Almost Sacred"accurately described the reawakening feeling that I was having. That was the catalyst which brought me back to those feelings I had as a kid ­feelings of justice and fairness that we tend to forget about today because there's just so much injustice. You have to become numb to what's out there. 
So what was it like to write this album? Therapeutic? 
Oh yes, it was definitely very therapeutic. I had to write an album in three months, and I wanted it to have a collective theme, so I took a bunch of missing pieces and put them together. I dug deep to write these songs. 
Who are your foremost musical influences? 
I go through phases. My early ones were the great musical songwriters of the seventies like Handy Newman. Then I got into the rock side. But I'd say people like Paul Brady, George Harrison, Paul McCartney for melodies, John Lennon and Roger Waters for honesty. 
Is this going to be your first tour doing material from Scenes? 
I've been doing these little gigs around L.A., at record-buying conventions and on live radio, but this is going to be the rrrst time going out with the paying public. It's going to be strange because I'll be playing the guitar instead of the piano. I was raised a piano player, but I started playing guitar when the songs I was writing on piano were too complicated to play on guitar. 
How did you get hooked onto Tracy Chapman's trao­eling circus? 
Her booking agent came to one of my L.A. gigs, and he loved the record; they've been very supportive. My record has made a good splash here. A lot of my gigs are selling out, but I decided it was time to take my songs to different areas of the States... 
How would you describe your live performances? 
I try to bring the crowd into my living room. I'm very low-key on stage; I establish a rapport with the audience. I was taught that if you said anything before a song, it's cheating. But I realized through seeing people like Bob Dylan, that even a little bit said about a song before it's played can make you listen to it a completely different way. Anything you can do to facilitate the experience of the song should be said to the audience... 
What do you hope to accomplish on this three-week excursion? 
I just need to get out and play on a regular basis. I'll be trying out some of my new songs, some covers. For example, we'll be playing on Saint Paddy's Day, so I'll do some traditional Irish ballads -hopefully turn some people on to that type of music. 
What are your plans for after the tour? 
This tour is starting with the simultaneous release of my nrst single from the album, "Something Almost Sacred." And I'm recording as I go. I have my own recording studio now. 
You've achieved a project all your own without hype, excessive radio airplay, or a glamorous video. What would your advice be to those who just want to 'get in'? 
I'd say that every avenue is a valid avenue. Just do everything that comes your way. I always did every­thing, and I still always do everything. You have to do more than one thing, or else be very. very. very lucky or have extreme business savvy to make it in this business. 
Rob Adams' music reviews appear every Thursday. 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, March 2, 1995 
•NBA 

Skiles shoots down Celtics 125-124 
Associated Press 
Calbert Cheaney twice kept the game going and Scott Skiles won it for Washington with 2.3 sec­onds left in the second overtime on Wednesday night, 125-124 over Boston. 
Cheaney had 28 points and Skiles had 16 with 10 assists. Dee Brown scored 30 points for the Celtics, but dribbled the ball off his foot with 16.2 seconds left and Boston protecting a 124-123 lead. 
Juwan Howard, who had 26 points, got the ball inside and passed it out to Skiles, who hit the leaner from the right side of the lane for the game-winner. 
Derek Strong inbounded the ball to Dominique Wilkins, but he never really got a shot off as he was falling out of bounds under the basket. 
Bulls 111, Heat 85 
Scottie Pippen had 27 points and 10 rebounds as the Bulls scored their second home rout of the Heat this season. 
Chicago's 133-88 decision on Dec. 30 was its most lopsided win ever at the United Center and was Miami's most decisive defeat of 1994-95. Pippen, who was 10-for-14 from the floor, is averaging 25 points and 10 rebounds since the trading deadline passed. He had demanded that Chicago deal him. 

•tor;"
The hn<>nu·a list him in condition:. .,;~'We are still ;'difficulty with 
his he~d being ed. "· ,,... · ""That's why 
U)lahle to bring·. sedation yet.r' ·.,·...,~~~-~,, ......~. 



Reds tell 16 players to clear out 
Associated Press took the field for a workout. before tomorrow's game." "You guys are men." Among those known to have 
PLANT CITY, Fla. 
Bowden had said players who left camp were former major
The Cincinnati Reds on 
refused to play in spring train­leaguers Kurt Stillwell, Scott Wednesday told 16 players to ing games would be sent home Scudder and Rich Sauveur. 
clean out their lockers and 
at their own expense, but there Among those remaining were leave camp for refusing to par­would be no other retaliation. Mike Smith, Pedro Borbon and ticipate in Thursday's exhibi­"Sixteen of 43 players in Motor-Boat Jones. 
tion opener against the 
camp were directed to perform The Reds have had playersCleveland Indians. 
in tomorrow's game and re­report in several stages. The 64 
General manager Jim 
fused," Bowden said in a pre­who reported to campBowden said that 27 players 
pared statement. "They be­Wednesday morning were be­agreed to play. They were 
came sympathy strikers and lieved to be higher-level players 
cheered by owner Marge 
were sent home. We will not than previous groups, and theySchott. 
release names of those who left were not asked to participate in 
"You're not wimps out 
camp, but they will be available Thursday's game. 
there," she shouted when they 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces . 
Classifieds 

.. 
NOTICES 
ATIENTION SOPHOMORES: Are you looking for that service pro­ject that really makes a difference, and is a lot of fun? Look no fur­ther ... 
THE SOPHOMORE CLASS SERVICE PROJECT 
Youth Mentoring at the NE Neighborhood WEDNESDAYS 
AND FRIDAYS 2:30-3:30-4:30 
meet at room 161 or Main Circle Questions?-Brian Tierney x1058 
Ramada Inn of Elkhart has rooms for Graduation weekend. Minimum stay of two nights required. $125 advance deposit per room. Conveniently located at 80/90 Toll Road, 15 miles from Campus. Send request by mail to 3011 Belvedere Ad, Elkhart, IN 46514 or fax to 219­262-1590. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
SPRING BREAK MONEY 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 
MON.-FRI. 11:30-12:30 
NEXT TO INFO. DESK IN LaFORT. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
BLADE RUNNER 
Thursday 8/1 030 $1 
Lafortune's Montgomery Theatre 
Brought to you by SUB 
part time help wanted 
filing, answering phones 
684-8300 
$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS$$ 
Are you going to read those things 
again? I think not 2323-2342 
Pandora's Bks NO Ave & Howard 
AUDITIONS FOR SENIORS!!!! 
Senior One-Acts: 4 one-act plays 
Wed. March 1, 8:30pm -10 
Thurs. March 2, 9:30pm -11 
Foster Am. in LaFortune, 3rd floor 
No experience necessary !!! 
AUDITIONS FOR SENIORS!!!I 
ILOST & FOUND I 
Lost on 2117 at Senior Bar Valentine Party • my camera was taken by mistake. I may have yours. Mine is a 35mm Canon Sure Shot I want my pix. Call Maria 284-5232. 
Lost -Men's thin dark brown leather gloves in Library on 1st or 2nd floor on Mon. 2120. Call O'Shag at 4­0975 LOST: BLUE NAUTICA JACKET AT CORBY'S LAST THURSDAY IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL. REWARD. MIKE x4332 
Somebody accidentally picked up the wrong black sportcoat at the Grace/Fianner SYR last Fri. My 10 is in the inside pocket please return to Calvin Nelson 214 Grace 4-1598 
1!!!!!!!!!1! LOST WATCH !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! I lost my watch in O'shag on 2-16. It has a wide black band with a white face. The numbers on the face are written in Cherokee. The designer's name is on the face ­
"Chad Smith". If you found this watch, PLEASE consider returning it to me. It's very important to me. If you have seen this watch please call Nancy, 277-0655. REWARD. 
LOST: A SMALL SILVER RING LOST ON 2-27. PLEASE CALL 4­13731F FOUND. IT IS A FAMILY HEIRLOOM! REWARD! 
LOST: A LONG BLACK 
WOMAN'S PERRY ELLIS COAT 
AT SR. BAR ON FRI. FEB. 10 
(FISHER-WALSH DANCE) 
PLEASE CALL CINDY AT 
273-5399 WITH ANY INFO.­
REWARD!!!I! 
FOUND: One umbrella, engraved handle outside South Dining Hall. Call 259-3267 and ask for Umbrella Boy to identify. 
LOST on TUES 2128 REWARD! 
CHARCOAL GREY Waterman 
FOUNTAIN PEN. 21st Bday pre­
sent from family. 
PLEASE call ANNE X4293 


WANTED 
RUN YOUR OWN BUSINESS, GAIN VALUABLE EXPERIENCE WHILE BUILDING YOUR RESUME. EARN UP TO $10,000 (25 JOBS) HIGH DEMAND PROD· UCT, IRRIGATION SALES AND INSTALLATION. BE A LEADER: VEHICLE REQUIRED CALL STU­DENT SPRINKLERS AT 1-800­265-7691 
Nothing to do during Lent? Don't give up eating stale bread and beat­les. Join a prayer group! To find out more about a morning (10 or 1030am) prayer group on weekday mornings during Lent, please call Mark @271-1400 SUMMER JOBS-COUNSELORS & STAFF BOYS SPORTS CAMP/MASS. TOP SALARY RM/BD/LAUNDRY, TRAVEL ALLOWANCE. MUST HAVE SKILL IN ONE OF THE FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES: Archery, Baseball, Basketball, Drums, Football, Golf, Guitar, Ice Hockey, Lacrosse, Lifeguard, Nature, Nurses, Photography, Piano, Pool, Rocketry, Rollerblading, Ropes, Sailing, Scuba, Secretary, Soccer, Tennis, Track, Video, Waterski, Windsurfing, Weights, Wood, Yearbook. Call or write: Camp 

Winadu, 2255 Glades Rd., Suite 
406E, Boca Raton, FL 33431, 

(800)494-6238 Recruiter will be on campus DATE: 3/6 TIME: 10:00am­4:00pm PLACE: Dooley Room -
Lafortune. STOP BY-No appoint­
ment needed. 

COUNSELORS: CAMP EMER­SON, coed Mass. Swimming, ten­nis, baseball, basketball, soccer, sailing, windsurfing, waterskiing, arts/crafts, theatre, woodworking, rocketry, archery, judo, yearbook, photography, video, radio, comput­er, MORE! Super kids, great food, friendly, fun! NO general coun­selors. 800-STAFF95 
SUMMER JOBS 

ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS 
PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS 
NEAR LAKE PLACID 
CALL 1-800-786-8373 

TENNIS JOBS-SUMMER BOYS CAMP-NORTHEAST-LOOKING FOR STAFF WITH GOOD TENNIS BACKGROUND WHO CAN TEACH CHILDREN TO PLAY TENNIS. GOOD SALARY, ROOM & BOARD, TRAVEL ALLOWANCE. CALL OR WRITE: CAMP WINADU, 2255 GLADES RD., SUITE 406E, BOCA RATON, FL 33431 800-494· 6238. RECRUITER WILL BE ON CAMPUS 3/6-DOOLEY ROOM· LAFORTUNE 
WANTED: 1985·88 CHEVY BLAZ­ER OR GMC JIMMY. GOOD CON­DITION. 272-9402. 

FOR RENT 

MOVE OC! Turtle Creek w/3 fern 
180/mo summer/95-96: 273-6437 
LIVE IN A GOOD NEIGHBOR­
HOOD FURNISHED HOMES 
NORTH OF NO FOR NEXT 

SCHOOL YEAR IDEAL FOR 3-8 
STUDENTS 2773097 HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAMPUS 232·2595 


FOR SALE 
Mac Powerbook 145. 1 year old, 40mb, claris, word, & more. $1 ,100/BO wade x3064 
Clarion Car Stereo-AM/FM/Cass Detachable Face; High Power; CD Changer Ready; Top of the Line; 1 yr old. $200. Call1-8817. 

TICKETS 
ATIENTION....... I have a TRACY CHAPMAN ticket available for a discount price. I REALLY need to get rid of it! Call Heather at x4321. 
ROUNDTRIP TICKET TO DEN­VER: Mar 11-Mar 19,$230 OBO, Chris X3054 
* REM Ticket for Sale * Kansas City -May 27 Best Offer-Christian x1181 
TOM PETTY TICKETS -call Mike at 234-5881, leave message if not there 
2 Petty Tix 
Best Offer by 7:30 today 
x4333 

PERSONAL 
000 The Copy Shop 000 
LaFortune Student Center 
WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE, 
& WEEKENDS FOR YOUR 
CONVENIENCE!!! 
Phone 631-COPY 
LISTEN TO USI!I 
MICHELLE AND KRISTA 
WVFIAM640 
FIRDA YS 11 :30 TO 1 :30 
WE'RE REALLY COOL 
AND SINGLE TOO. 
Moving to LA area after gradua­tion. Need female roommate. Call Jill x4757 
Bevin and Theresa need a ride to the Boston area for Spring Break.Leave 3/10. Will pay for gas and provide groovy conversation. Call X2533 and ask for Shaggy. 
I MISS OUR 
MATRIX MANAGEMENT 
DISCUSSIONS ALREADY. 
Need ride to Eau Claire, WI for Spring Break. Off 1-94 to Mlps./St Paul. Will help pay/drive. Beth X2479 
... when the lights are down in the quint. one can't help but to ponder, "where are the bath tubs around here?" 
Got any extra lap space? Lusty Babe seeks ride to New Orleans over spring break. Please, please, please! Call Pete @ 3584 
Looking for a ride to Louisiana over spring break. Will pay big bucks and help with gas/driving Matt X3584 (can even give you a place to stay if you need it) 
The cops finally busted Madam Marie for telling fortunes better than they do 
JUMPSTART FOR LENT The Spirituality series continues. Don't miss out! Part of developing 
a personal spirituality is growing into prayer with Scripture. You'll be glad you came! Thursday, March 2, 7·8:30 pm, Stanford­Keenan chapel. 
**********..***"'**"'..****AUDITIONS! 
AUDITIONS! for the SENIOR FOUR Tonight (Thurs) 9:30 Lafortune Foster Room (3rd II) No experience or intelligence need­ed. AUDITIONS! AUDITIONS! 
LOSE WEIGHT FOR SUMMER -I lost over 20 lbs., went from a size 9 to a 3 in 8 weeks, without drugs/diets/exercise! All-natural product-guaranteed results! Kelly (800)209-2150. 
2 LUSTY BABES need ride to Key West. Call Kim x4528 or Colleen 287-7353 and give your best offer. 
NEEDED-Ride to and from Pensacola,FL or anywhere close for Spring Break. Will help with costs. Call MATI x3895. 
2 days till the night we've all been waiting for, the social event of the semester, the seventh annual 
* DAWGFEST* 
You won't want to miss it. Details on Friday. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ CAN YOU DRAW WELL Would you Like to be a part of ANTOSTAL? 
If so, come to the SUB office this Friday to audition as a: 
'Butt-sketch artist' 'Posterior pictographer' 'Derriere drawer' (All the same position -yes it pays) 
Looking for speed and style. March 3, 3-5pm, 2nd floor LaFort. CALL TRIXIE @4-4877 for info. 
$Thisis paidThisispaidThisis pa1d$ 
Need to rent 2 bdrm. apt at Turtle Creek. If you have 
12 mo. lease. call Laura 
x4541 

Going 2 or thru Iowa 4 break? I need a ride! Jim x4333 
Are you or is a friend dealing with 
the issues that surround 
HOMOSEXUALITY? Do you want a safe place to talk? Do you want to meet people who care? And People who have shared some of your same experiences? There will be a CONFIDENTIAL SUPPORT MEETING Thursday at 7:30.Piease call the Q-line 287· 6665 for more information. 
Top Five Reasons to Wish Annabel Happy B-day today: 
5. If you're Australian, she'll kiss you. 
4. She didn't dress up like a one· armed black gay woman to get a job afterall. 
3. She's slightly prettier than Lee and uses less hair-care products. 
2. Drew will hook up with you, and he's not very discriminating. 
1. She'll write another Inside Column about your moral inferiority if you don't. 
Tame it down!! I'm ready to get 
buttered! 

REAL hockey players DON'T use 
the door! GO IRISH! 

Hey cool girl, Next time you'll watch where you put your head. Plaster just doesn't go well with your hair color. I'm telling you, they hate you. All of them. What a lush you are. 
Name the fish Jake so we won't for­get him .... 
What? No more sink stench? 
.---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Thursday, March 2, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 





NHL: Neutral-zone trap defense is here to stay 
By KEN RAPPOPORT 
Associated Press 
The Florida Panthers love it, the New York Hangers hate it. No matter how teams feel about the "neutral-zone trap de­fense," it's here to stay in the NllL-at least for now. 
"It seems to be the real fad of 1995," said the Rangers' Mark Messier, "so I guess we have to get used to it." 
The Hangers saw the style first-hand when they played the Panthers on Tuesday night in Madison Square Garden. The result: a 0-0 tie. 
"Every once in a while, you'd 

• 

see some games like this," Messier said, "but now almost everybody has incorporated it. So you almost see it every night." 
Except perhaps when Pittsburgh plays Quebec -two teams that feature wide-open, high-scoring hockey. Monday night, the Penguins beat the Nordiques 7-5. Earlier, the Penguins won 5-4, giving those teams a total of 21 goals in two games. 
Don't look for scoring like that in most games because many of them feature the neu­tral-zone trap, which the Panthers play to perfection under coach Roger Neilson. Neilson had success with it last season in his first year with the Panthers when he won an expansion-record 33 games. 

"Every time we win a game or get a point, people say it's ei­ther clutch-and-grab, we're lucky or boring," Neilson said. "We are not, however, a clutch­and-grab team. We trap." 
The idea of the trap is as old as hockey and has been em­ployed through the years in other shapes and forms by teams such as the Montreal Canadiens. The Panthers have put a different spin on it ­stacking up the neutral zone with their players, going with the flow of the puck and gen­erally waiting for the other team to make a mistake. 
The idea is to wait for a chance to counter-attack, rather then going on the offen­sive. It's generally conceded that teams of lesser talent, such as expansion teams, have a bet­ter chance to win that way. 
Teams such as the defending Stanley Cup champion Rangers, who are one of the best skating teams in the NHL, have expressed frustration over fac­ing such defenses -particular­ly since they usually incorpo­rate clutch-and-grab and hold-
May. 1995 Graduates Personalized 
Graduation Announcements 
Gold, blue & white university seal on cover. The gold engraved seal has been 


~~ is aauufi!fatejor tfie tf"f'N'"ee of 
_ ~· 
Bad1efor ofScience 
at tfie 
One Hundred Fiftieth Annuaf Commencement on SundJ::y May 21, 1995 

Notre Dame Thank You Cards 
$7.00 per box of 10 
(includes envelopes) 




VVed/fhurs,~ar.S/9 Tues/VVed;~ar.28/29 
9:30 am -4:30 pm 

~LaFortune Student Center~ ~Dooley Room -1st floor~ 
by Balfour 

(Sample text only) 
Tfie President, Trustees and Facufty 
oftEte University of Notre Dame are pfeasea to announce tftat 
1 __..... De6orah M. Sasso 
ing-the-stick tactics. 
''I'm not going to knock I .Jrida for playing any style they want," Messier said. "I think it's fine. However, it's one thing to play that style, but the league has allowed the offi­ciating to be what it is. 
"They instilled a rule last year of absolutely zero toler­ance for holding sticks. We had a situation here where three guys had their sticks held in the second period trying for loose pucks in front of the net. It all comes down to the league, It's not the official's fault. It comes down to the league the way they want the game officiated." 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
WRESTLING • Attention ND wrestlers. Interested in reviving wrestling at the University of Notre Dame? A group of students is starting a wrestling club on campus . If interested in the club, call Marcus or Andrew at 4-2230 and you will be sent details. 
BALLET-There is still space available in RecSports Ballet. Classes meet Thursday from 7:30-8:30, and Saturday 1:30-3:30. The cost is $35, and you must register at RecSports. Any questions, call RecSports at 1·6100. 
HOCKEY· FREE Notre Dame hockey imprints on blank t· shirts or sweatshirts. Imprints will be available before the game o.nd through the first period of the Illinois­Chicago and Irish hockey game on Friday March 3 at the JACC Ice Rink. 

tind so it mas said 1llat on the ~rand & <iilorious {:lighth & {:lltra Da.~ @od dtd inderd create sm To keep thr lrrish from (Jonqucring thr morld 

page 1~ The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, March 2, 1995 
• Cou.EGE BASKETBALL 

NCAA Suspends UNLV's Stewart 

By DAVID DROSCHAK 
Associated Press 
DURHAM, N.C. 
Joe Smith scored a career­high 40 points, including the game-winning follow at the buzzer Wednesday night, as No. 6 Maryland survived the absence of coach Gary Williams to post a 94-92 vic­tory over Duke. 
Maryland (23-5, 12-3 ACC) set a school record for Atlantic Coast Conference vic­tories and moved the Terrapins within one win of their first regular-season league crown since 1980. A victory Sunday at No. 11 Virginia would clinch the crown and give Maryland the No. 1 seed in next week's ACC tournament at Greensboro, N.C. 
Foot-stomping Billy Hahn, holding back tears during his postgame comments, got the victory as interim coach after Williams was admitted to the hospital Tuesday with pneu­monia. 
The game featured 14 ties and 26 lead changes and big play after big play by Smith, who atoned for a season-low six points in Maryland's earli­er two-point win over Duke (12-16, 2-13) at College Park, Md. 
Smith, who made 15 of 25 shots, dominated inside, par­ticularly on the offensive glass, where he picked up 10 of his 18 rebounds. 
Maryland appeared to have the game won, leading 89-84 with 2:05 left after two free throws by Smith. 
But 3-pointers by Trajan Langdon and Jeff Capel gave Duke a one-point lead with 
1:13 remaining and got the crowd into the game. 
Two more free throws by Smith and another by Duane Simpkins regained the lead. 

By ROBERT MACY 
Associated Press 

LAS VEGAS 
UNLV suspended Kebu Stewart, its leading scorer and rebounder, for the remainder of the season Wednesday after he admitted receiving a free pair of shoes from an agent's representative. 
The university also declared guard Jermaine Smith ineligi­ble for the same violation, but said it would appeal to the NCAA to immediately make him eligible again. 
Stewart's suspension came in the wake of an NCAA letter asking UNLV about players re­ceiving free shoes last summer when Hollie Massimino was still coach of the team. 
It was the latest blow to a program that has gone through four coaches this season, lost its last six games and is unsure whether coach Tim Grgurich will return. 
UNLV athletic director Jim Weaver said Stewart's punish­ment was tougher than Smith's because he had been involved in two previous incidents and told not to let it happen again. Stewart missed six games last season after being suspended for taking a free plane ticket from an agent's representative. 
Stewart also missed several games earlier this season, ap­parently unhappy about his role on the team. He was averaging 17 points and 10 rebounds a game. 
Weaver said the two were ap­parently the only players to re­ceive the free shoes. 
David Chambers, assistant athletic director, said the uni­versity was asked last Thursday to look into possible problems in the program. 
"The NCAA receives informa­tion on a daily basis and they ask the schools to investigate to determine if there may or may not be a problem," Chambers said. 
"They've forwarded this information to us and want to see what we know about it." 
The incidents occurred while Massimino was still head of the Rebels program. 
Massimino was hired in 1992 to replace former coach Jerry Tarkanian, who built the Rebels into a basketball dynasty while conducting a continuing battle with the NCAA. 
JHZZMHN'S 
NilE CLUB 
525 N. Hill St. 
Presents a college night party of the month this Thursday, March 2nd. 
*Two live bands-Reggae & Blues *Two Dfs & Guest Dfs *Two dance floors 
Chance to appear on USA, ESPN, A&E, TNT, SportsChannel, and other TCI Cable TV networks. All persons entering must sign television release forms. Hot wings available, guest musicians and singers welcome! $6.00 cover with student or Univ. staff ID $8.00 without above ID Doors open 9 PM Call233-8505 for Info. M-S after 4 PM 

THURSDAY, MARCH 2 7:30P.M. O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
TICKETS $8* ALL SEATS RESERVED 
Discounts available for senior citizens, groups, SMC-ND community and students. Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, located in O'Laughlln, 9-5 Mon.-Fri. Discover, Visa. MasterCard at 219/284-4626. 
1'\0RfftU ctnnR 
fOR ll1L <fl R T S 

&RAND OPENING 
FRIDAY/ MARCH 3 IN THE REAR OF PARKMDDR PLAZA ELKHART 
JUST 30 MINUTES FROM THE 
N.D. CAMPUS I us 20 E. TO SR 19 NORTH 
Zoology 101 was never like this. The ZOO, Michiana's hottest new live rock club, opens its gates on Friday, March 3. See wildlife exhibits like Alternative Thursdays and the Midwest's best live rock bands. Visit the ZOO and take a walk on the wild side. 
T H E 
zoo 
W I L D F U N 

Thursday, March 2, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
•NBA 
Strickland signals success Shaq pits n1agic 
club in San Antonio, hadn't got­ten along with his coach Larry 
against league giants 
Brown and seemed to consis­By FRED GOODALL season series against New York tently be in the news for his off­Associated Press and hiked their advantage overcourt problems. 
the defending Eastern
That changed when he got to 
ORLANDO, Fla. 

Conference champions to sevenPortland. There was a minor 
Shaquille O'Neal relishes the 
games in the Atlantic Division. 
altercation at a McDonald's in 
challenge of playing against the 
"Not only is it Shaq going upChicago last year, but 
best, so his return from a one­
against three of the best cen­Strickland was cleared of any 
game suspension couldn't have 
ters ever in a row, but it is uswrongdoing. Other than that, 
come at a better time for him 
going up against three very
he's had no problems off the or the Orlando Magic. 
good basketball teams," Hill
court since joining the Blazers. 
The NBA's leading scorer be­
said.
He makes regular appear­
gan a stretch of head-to-head 
"It's a tough week, but if I
ances on behalf of the team in 
battles against the league's 
had to circle one that we reallyschools and around the com­
other top centers Tuesday 
needed, this was it."
munity. And he seems to have 
night, scoring 41 points on 
Orlando improved the NBA's
made a smooth adjustment 
Patrick Ewing in a 118-106 vic­
best record to 43-13 and isfrom the laid-back style of 
tory over the New York Knicks. 
gaining more confidence with
coach Rick Adelman to the 
He will face Houston's 
each victory. The Magic beatintensity of P.J. Carlesimo. 
Hakeem Olajuwon on Thursday 
Boston last week after O'Neal's
On the court, he keeps 
and renew his rivalry with San 
first-quarter ejection for shov­improving. He worked exten­
Antonio's David Robinson the 
ing Eric Montross and won
sively on his outside shooting 
following night. O'Neal is aver­
again Sunday against Chicago
the past two summers. He's 
aging 29.4 points per game, 
while he was serving the sus­always had an uncanny ability 
while Olajuwon (28.3) and 
pension for the altercation the
to score against much taller 
Robinson (27.5) are No. 2 and 
All-Star center wants to leaveopponents close to the basket. 
No. 3 in the scoring race. 
behind.
Now he can hit from 15 to 20 
"It certainly is a test for us," 
"I wasn't trying to send any
feet, and even beyond. In 
Orlando coach Brian Hill said 
message. I just reacted,"February, he was 11-for-22 
after the Magic clinched the 
O'Neal told The Orlando
from 3-point range. 

Sentinel. "The NBA did what it had to do. The rules aren't go­ing to change, and I'm not go­ing to change either. I'll be all right. I hit him with an open
~~asyli,~t<:ili 
hand, but I'm so strong and powerful it was deemed too se­Super Saver Prices on Roses 
vere." "Shaq is just too powerful for 
Balloon Bouquets It Stuffing, Plants, 
them," said Dennis Scott, who
Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
had 26 points Tuesday night.
Clocktower Square 

"They try to cover him with one
51400 31 North South Bend, IN 46637 

(219)277-1291 
guy and he scores." 
By BOB BAUM 
Associated Press 
POHTIAND. Ore. 

With Clyde Drexler gone, there's no doubt who's running the Portland Trail Blazers. 
Hod Strickland, once an NBA bad boy, has been one of the league's most effective point guards over the past two sea­sons. Now that his role is even bigger, maybe he'll get the kind of recognition he feels he deserves. 
With Drexler traded to llouston, the Blazers have had a much more balanced attack in recent games. The addition of Otis Thorpe inside has given Strickland one more target for passes when he makes his dri­ves to the basket. 
"It's too early to tell, but I think we've blended real well since Otis Thorpe got here," Strickland said. "We're a lot more patient and we're running our offense a lot better. We're playing good defense and we're a great rebounding team. If we can carry that into the playoffs, I think we can surprise some people." 

The Blazers are 5-1 since Thorpe joined the team, and one of the reasons is Strickland's increased role. 
"The ball is in my hands a lot more and the offense is pretty much run through me," he said. "It's given me a lot of op­portunities." 
When Strickland was signed by Portland as a free agent three years ago, he brought a lot of old baggage with him. He complained about playing time in New York. He'd broken his hand in a fight outside a night 
CHEERLEADER & LEPRECHAUN 

Tryout Information Meeting 
All serious candidates must attend this meeting! 
6:00 P.M. • MARCH 7, 1995 JACC Football Auditorium For more information, call 631-8103 
The following is a survey from an ... uh... a consumer group. 
Think you'll be inspired by our hockey team this weekend? Want to see if you have what it takes to stay up on the ice? Ever experienced the the thrill of making the 3rd goal in a hat--trick? 
If you answered yes to any of the above questions, then we need you to come to the IACC this Friday, March Jrd after the hockey game against 111· is--Chicago to go 
ICE 
SKATING 


with Flip Side, the group that provides the ND/SMC community with great activities that do not involve alcohol. We will be holding an ice--skating extravaganza for all those who wish to see if they have the ability to skate with the best of them. But, first, you have to skate with us; so come down after the hockey game on March 3rd from 10 p.m.-12 a.m. and see if you can do it! 
Cost is only $2.50 for all ND/SMC students! 
If you want to help out in any way with the organization of this event, call Steve ( 4,1 762) or Cristin (4,4206) for details. If you want to learn more about Flip Side, call either of our esteemed presidents, John ( 4,1410) or Mary ( 4,4904). 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, March 2, 1995 
Cassie,  
.Happy Birthday  
to our favorite  
Leap Day Baby!  
The Observer/John Bingham .Junior Brady Curtis (blue trunks) squares off with senior Jason Svadeba in heavyweight action.  Love, Fbcoand the other phoxes  

Best 

continued from page20 
said. "Without them, I'm blind." 
But not blind enough to parry the punches of Lalor, who had advanced to the semifmals with a knockout of senior Eric l\1akowski just 40 seconds into Lhe first round of his quarterfi­nal bout. 
"It's all in who you fight," rarrell continued. "I knew how he boxed, and I knew what I had to do. I wanted to keep my game plan. 
"I wanted to hit more than be hit." 
A simple strategy, but an ef­fective one. Farrell has won twice in his young boxing ca­reer. 
Both with his father in his corner. 
Hoops 
mntinued from page 20 
halves. Bowen also regis­lered a perfect showing at the free throw line with a 6-6 e!Tort, as well as a 62% shoot­ing percentage from the field. 
"It was a great game for Letitia Bowen," Coach Muffet McGraw said, "We really want­ed to play well for her." 
With the last victory coming against a Midwestern r.ollegiate Conference foe, the Irish have effectively clinched first place in the conference lournament. Championship playoffs will begin in one week at Northern Illinois University, with the winning team guaran­teed an invitation to the NCAA tournament. 
Have something 

• to say? Use The 
Observer : Classifieds 
"It's a real confidence boost­er," the son said. "He's my per­sonal trainer, and he knows when I'm doing good. And he doesn't hold anything back when he tells me what I'm doing wrong." 
It's a bit of deja vu for the el­der Farrell, who was a three­time champion himself before becoming a coach and corner man for the program. 
But don't expect him to be any less nervous when the duo takes on defending champion Rob Naticchia in the 175-pound finals Saturday. Natcchia won a unanimous decision over senior Pat Keaney in the first semifi­nal. 
"I want to win for myself," the younger Farrell said with a grin. "But I want to win for my dad too. He'll probably be more nervous than me before the fight." 

WANTED BY THE OBSERVER NEWS DEPT: 
Motivated, eager folks for the following positions 
AssociATE NEws EDITOR ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR NEWS COPY EDITOR 
Interested? Then The Observer wants you! Please submit a resume and statement of intent to Dave Tyler by Thursday, March 2 at 8 p.m. Questions? Call Dave at 1-5323 or 4-1200. 
~$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$~~ 
~  .. COIV1E ON 00"\X/N ___  ..  \  
tit  Be -t-he  next contestant on  ift  
tit  Ponq bor:>n  Hall  1  s  ift  
tit*  1liih• []=II n11=1DErn  ffo :(fi  
tit:  ·­........  ift:  

: Hollyvvood's coming -to Nofpe Dcome ~ 
:f/J: SatuPday r-viaPch 4-'J:.. 7:oo pm "'iff tit ~ash i ng-1-on I-Iall "fft ~ ~in FABULOUS PRIZES ~ 
T11 and suppoPf the ~C.~! "'iff 
\ tickets available at LaFortune Info Desk : 
~~~$$$$$$$$$::$$$$$$$$$~*~ 

Ct-IOPSTJCKS 
CHINESE FAST FOOD We Deliver to your dorm! Mon-Thurs lla.m. -9p.m. Fri. & Sat. lla.m.-lOp.m. 
$6 minimum $1 service charge for orders under $15 East Location: 525 N. Eddy St. South Bend, IN 232-1177 

Bouts 

continued from page 20 
hands and he game me a lot of hot shots." 
Take two with the favorite in the 185-field, Mike Mantey. His fight and 1994 Bout debut (after a bye in the quarterfi­nals) lasted 16 seconds. It seems the nose of his opponent, Dave Harris, is as fragile as Waterford crystal. A Mantey jab and the floodgates opened, and the referee ended the fight. 
There was, in the midst of the irregular, some fine bouts. The 175-pound division gave the crowd on hand a pair. Rob Naticchia remained the favorite by chopping down Pat Keaney. The six-foot-five Keaney held of the charging Naticchia for a good portion of the bout, but couldn't maintain against the determined top seed. 
It appeared nothing could top the sight of Keaney's long arms swinging from the heavens, but young Chip Farrell did just that. He upset Bob Lalor in the sec-

Your Connection To 
O'HARE 
and 
MIDWAY 




674·7000 or 1·800·833·5555 
or consult your travel agent 

ond fight at 175 (see related story). 
The closest fight of the evening jumped out at 145 where sophomore Ted Pagano took a split decision from junior Rick Rogers. The crowd gave a mixed reaction at the an­nouncement of the winner, as mixed as the officials' scoring. On the five judges card, Pagano took the first round and Rogers owned the round. The debate was over the second where two judges scored it even and three gave a slight edge to Pagano. 
"I felt strong after the first, and the second could have gone either way. I felt fortunate to have won that fight," Pagaino said. "Rick is a good fighter." 
Adding to the odd, was the absence of a 165 division. John Christoforetti and Pat Dolan ad­vanced after their challengers suffered injuries that prevented them from fighting. For Christoforetti, his first fight of 1994 will be for the title. 
Another Farrell, Pat, didn't fare as well as his non-related namesake. Todd Murphy took a unanimous decision in the 170­pound class. One of five classes where the No. 2 seed fell. 
But, to reassure that the Ben­gal Bouts will always maintain some predictability. Two-time champion Jeff Goddard ad-
page 17 


130 Pounds Eric Garcia-Unan Dec.-Avalino Verceles Todd Bello-Split Dec.-Dan Zepf 
135 Pounds 
Greg Marks-Unan Dec.-Ben Decio Andy Dicello-Unan Dec.-Tony Biolchini 
145 Pounds Dan Court-Unan Oec.-Lucas Molina Ted Pagano-Split Dec.·Rick Rogers 
150 Pounds Matt Kowalsky-Unan Dec.-Shawn Hamer Nate Mick·Unan Dec.·Tim Irwin 
155 Pounds Chris Rosen-Split Dec.-Brenden McGuire Joh\'1 KmeiZ-Split Dec...Jesse Barrett 
157 Pounds Eric Hlllegas-Unan Oec.-Ryan Walker Butch Cabreroa-Unan Dec.-Stefan Borsa 
160 Pounds Michael Thompson-Unan Oec.·Mike Wigton Dan Adams-Unan Dec.·Brad Parker 
165 Pounds John Christoloretti-Delaultllnjury·Rob Piecuch Pat Dolan-DelauiVlnjury.Jaclt MacLeod 
170 Pounds Jeff Goddard-Unan Oec.·Chris Peterson Mike Farreii-Unan Oec.·Todd Murphy 
175 Pounds 
Rob Naticchia-Unan Dec.-Pat Keaney Chip Farrell-Split Dec.·Bob Lalor 
185 Pounds Troy Phillips-RSC :40 Rd. 2-0an O'Rourke Dave Baker-RSC 1:10 Rd. 1-Jake Lustig 
195 Pounds Mike Mantey·RSC :16 Rd. 1-Dave Harris Matt Mulderrig-Split Dec.-Chad Harrison 

... 
Heavyweight Greg Stec-BYE Jason Svadeba-RSC :03 Rd. 3-Brady Curtis 
vanced to the finals by winning unanimously in his matchup with Chris Peterson. Same old, same old with Goddard. 
The debut of the heavy· weights showcased the power of Jason Svadeba. The South Bend senior ended his battle with Brady Curtis with a little over a minute gone in the third. He will face the favorite, Greg Stec, Saturday evening. 
~---~--------~-~~~ ---~------~ --­
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, March 3, 1995 
l 
I " 
I 
~ 
I 
I 
I I 
• MEN'S TENNIS 

ByB.J. HOOD Pietrowski ended with a victo­Sports Writer ry at number three singles, 7­5, 2-6, 6-2. Steve FlaniganYesterday the Notre Dame defeated Jared Miller 6-3, 6-2 
men's tennis team finally got 
at number four; Ron Mencias the opportunity to compete 
was victorious over Tonyagainst a team that is not Pederson at number five 6-1, ranked among the nation's 
6-2 and Brian Harris beat 
top 25. The Irish had success, Wisconsin's Jeffrey Malik 6-4, posting a 7-0 win over 1-6, 6-4 at number six. Wisconsin. Wisconsin's only victory was Notre Dame won all six sin­
at number one doubles, with gles matches. Ryan Simme, 
Zuckerman and Goldstein de­ranked third in the Midwest feating Pun and Harris 8-5. region and sixteenth in the 
Pietrowski and Flanigan beat 
nation, defeated Jason 
Thomsen and Pederson 8-0 at Zuckerman 6-4, 6-0 in a 
number two doubles, and match that took just over an Simme and Horst Dziura were hour. 
the winners at number three At number two singles, doubles over Malcolm Thorne Jason Pun survived two match 
and Dave Henschel 8-4. points in the second set to The Irish will be busy this beat Mike Goldstein 3-6, 7-6 
weekend, hosting Illinois on (8), 6-2. Jason Thomsen of 
Saturday and Iowa on Wisconsin had a three match Sunday. Both matches start winning streak which Jakub at 3 p.m. 
GET INVOLVED! BE PART OF PLANNING 
YOUlR JJ~W~ 
APPLY FOR A POSITION ON TH £ 
19961PW 
EXECUTIVE COMM11TEE! 
DON'T MISS OUT! 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT THE LAFORTUNE INFO DESK. APPLICATIONS ARE DUE IN 315 LAFORTUNE BY 5:00P.M. ON 


Strong's last four years on Steve Spurrier's staff with the Gators marked his third tour of duty at the University of Florida. He previously served as a graduate assistant at Florida in 1983 and 1984, then returned as outside linebacker coach in 1988 and 1989. He spent the 1990 campaign as wide receiver coach at Mississippi, and also coached receivers at Southern Illinois in 1986-87. 
A graduate assistant at Texas A&M in 1985, Strong worked there with current Irish defen­sive coordinator Bob Davie, who joined the Aggie staff that season. 
Strong participated in the 1993 NFL Minority Coaching Fellowship, working with the New Orleans Saints' defensive line during training camp. He was promoted to assistant head 
• NFL 

Gator coach will replace Trgovac 
Special to The Observer coach at Florida in 1994. fourth in'92. The '91 squad Strong's defensive lines with permitted only seven rushing
Charlie Strong has been 
the Gators have ranked among TDs, the fourth-lowest total in named defensive line coach on the best in the country. Florida school history, the Notre Dame football team. 
ranked fifth nationally in rush­Among the standouts StrongHe was defensive tackle coach ing defense in 1994, permitting coached at Florida are '94 first­and head coach at Florida the 84.6 yards per game and only team All-American defensive last four seasons. 
nine rushing scores all season. lineman Kevin Carter, current 
Strong replaces Mike 
The Gators also finished fifth standout end Johnie Church,
Trgovac, who resigned last 
nationally in that category in and Mike Brandon and Darren month after three seasons on '91 (100.3 per game) and ninth Mickell, both of whom went on the Irish staff to become de­
in '93. Florida led the to the NFL. 
fensive line coach of the 
Southeastern Conference in Strong earned four letters in 
Philadelphia Eagles of the 
rushing Defense in both '91 and football at Central Arkansas National Football League. 
'94, stood second in '93 and State from 1980-83. 

SMART VISION 
CONTACT LENS EXPRESS 
NAME BRANDS, TOP QUALITY LENSES. AT WHOLESALE PRICES. 
Most Major Brands Tinted, Daily Wear, Extended Wear Most Lenses Within 72 Hours 
1/2 OFF RETAIL PRICE. 
CALL TODAY. 1-800-915-5367 
Thursday, March 2 • 7-8:30 pm Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
"Theology 100 is over. I have this Bible sitting on my shelf. There must be some way to put it to use after all that study. After all, It is Lent." 
Come participate in a form of prayer that will bring the Bible alive in ways you may not have thought of before. Appreciate the Sunday readings in a different light. 
Presenter: Regina Coli, C.S.j., Department of Theology 

Each session will include: An experience of prayer Presentation by speaker or panel Question and answer period • Refreshments 

0MPU5 
P A R T 2 OF A 3 -P A R T S E R I E S MINISTRY 
STUDENTS ARE WELCOME TO ATTEND ALL THREE SESSIONS OR AS MANY OF THE THREE AS THEY CAN. 

BACK BY POPULAR DEMAND! 
For alimited time only 

NOTRE DAME HOCKEY vs. lllinois·Chicago
NOTRE DAME Hockey 
THIS FRIDAY NIGHT! 7:00
vs. lllinois·Chicago 
This FRIDAY NIGHT! LAST HOME GAME OF THE SEASON! 
Thursday, March 2, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
MIRRORI.AND HUY NGOC PHAN CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 
:J·Z 


CALVIN AND HOBBES 
IF l 1-l~O "' COMIVIt.R, I'!II S\JRt. l 'D GH 
!3ETTER GRM£S ON 
~~ BOOK R£.~. 
DILBERT 
W('RE. ANNOUNCING TWO NE.W P\l.DGP-.F\f"\5 
FOR £.to'\PLOYEE.5 
CROSSWORD ACROSS 30 Bee, in a way 31 Coalesce
1 Some microwaves 32 Ticked off 7 Bully 
33 Lakes in the 10 Good luck distance charm of the 
39 Gnaws 

Middle Ages 
40 File

14 Comeback 
42 Show fear 

15 Chemistry pioneer Andrew 46 Sandpiper 16 Science series 47 Of the skull since1974 
48 Phonograph 17 Wrong idea inventor's 20 Nimbi monogram 21 Sorceress of 49 Jeanne d'Arc, Aeaea e.g.: Abbr. 22 Butterfly's sash 50 Pines 25 Capital of Cuba 51 Three-time 26 Knitted shoes British Open winner
28Wires by wireless 53 Eyeball bender 
~0\J'O STILL 1-\t>-IJE BOOK A~\J \Ul 
W.E CO!-\I'IJIER '«~"-1 '100 I'JI\I'tt TO SA.'(, '100 
K~OW. 
'­
59 Now's companion 60Pince--­
61 Hard, dry, one-seeded fruit 
62 London park 63 Baker's abbr. 64 Was impolite 
DOWN 
1 Sandy's remark 2 1958 song "Make-
Miracle" 3 Azores' loc. 4 Quick bite 5 Hawaii's is 808 6 Rural steps 7 Tarot suit 8 Celebrated 
Bruin blueliner 9 Minute 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 Type of inspection 
and Bullwinkle 27 Rara avis 29 Officeholders 


\0 R~\:> 1\-\E 
TI-lE CLUE 
METER. IS 
f\EADING 
ZERO. 

BILL WATTERSON 
SCOTT ADAMS 
YOU EI\CI-\ GET 1\ 1-\AND.SOME COFFEE MUG A'::J PART OF 
TI-\E 1\ICK-OFF 

30 Positivism founder Auguste 
32 Play for time 34 Singer McEntire 35 Flume 36 Shooter 37 Grigs 38 Please 41 Compass dir. 42 Mounted 
antlers, to some 43 Blew one's stack 
44 Battering ram or catapult 45 Hodgepodge: Abbr. 46 Cowboys' home 47 Calico, e.g. 
48 Chess champion of 1960 

51 Effervescence 52 Part of the Dept. 
of Labor 54 Plus 55 Singer Sayer 56 Front end? 57 Together 58 Writer Buntline 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

• OF INTEREST •Education Lecture Series Opens Today. Dr. John Bransford of Vanderbilt University will open the 1995 Urban Institute Visiting Scholar's Series at 4:15 p.m. today in room 102 DeBartolo. Bransford's presenta­tion which will feature CD·Rom driven learning pro­grams, is entitled "Developing Literacy Skills in Urban Students." •"A Violence Called Democracy: The Guatemalan Military Project, 1982·1992" will be the subject of a lecture by Jennifer Schirmer of the Harvard University Divinity School. It will be held today at 4:15 p.m. inC· 103 of the Center for International Studies. •Keeping the Faith-Developing a Personal Spiritu­ality at Notre Dame, a session to enrich the prayer life of students and to strengthen their faith, will be held in the Stanford • Keenan Chapel, today and Sunday at 7:00-8:30 p.m. •"Human Life. The 1st Human Right" will be the topic of a talk given by Professor Charles Rice tonight at 7:30 p.m. at the ND/SMC H.lght to Life meeting in Cushing Auditorium. •The Tracy Chapman concert is tonight at 8:00 p.m. in Stepan Center. Did you get your ticket? Well, why not? They're available at the LaFortune Information Desk and at the Door. Ticket price is $12 for ND/SMC/HCC students and $15 for the General Public.  
•MENU Notre Dame NORTH SOUTH Arroz con Queso Chicken Macadamia Garden Quiche Kalua Pig/ Haupia Pumpkin Squares Mini Egg Rolls Saint Mary's Cheese Omelettes Beef Stew BBQ Spare Ribs  
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad.  


~ 
SPORTS 

Thursday, March 2, 1995 

By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Editor 
It was a night of oohs and awes, more for the almosts then the action. 
Twenty-two fights came and went at the Joyce ACC Field­house, as the semifinals of the 65th annual Bengal Mission Bouts will best be remem­bered for peculiarity rather than purity. 
All the tops seeds advanced to the finals to be held Saturday (8 p.m. at the Joyce Arena) but some in ways they 

-
would rather not discuss. 
Chris Rosen may be the most glaring example of the night's duality. One-Rosen, the favorite in the 155-pound division, earned a split deci­sion over sophomore Brendan McGuire. His win was ex­pected. But, two-Rosen fought out of character, swung like a wild man, and took a few solid shots from the underdog. 
"I did some dumb stuff," Rosen said. Give McGuire some credit but I dropped my 
see BOUTS I page 17 


Irish skewer Musketeers, 86-73 
byKCGOYER The Musketeers left Morgan said, "And at the beginning of 
Sports Writer wide open for back-to-back the second half, too." three-point buckets. Once the High honors go to co-captainIt was high 
returning starter heated up, and solitary senior Letitia time. there was no stopping her. Bowen. Bowen finished her Last night, 
Two minutes later, Morgan hit last home game on the JACC the Notre 
consecutive three-pointers Arena floor game as the leading D a m e 
again, even though this time scorer with 22 points, a season women's bas­
the defense was alert. high. Bowen also earned gameketball team 
"It was great to have Beth high honors in rebounding with defeated visit-
back," Coach Muffet McGraw 11, bringing her career total to ing Xavier 86-Bowen 
said, "and to have her open it 962. The game marks her 7 3 to finish the 
up with some shots from the ninth double-double this sea­regular season on a high note. 
outside for us." son, and eighth in the last nine The Irish jumped to an early 
Morgan returned to limited games.lead with an 8-0 run, sparked 
play last night after sitting out "I was excited about by Letitia Bowen with a series 
four games with a knee injury. [tonight's game]." Bowen said, of shots soft off the glass from 
Heading into the contest close "I was kind of nervous, but then inside; and continued by 
behind Gaither as the team's I just wanted to win." Katryna Gaither. 
second leading scorer, Morgan Typically, Bowen is high on The Irish were leading their 
finished the game with 18 the list in every category. Last opponents by a comfortable points, all of them scored in the night was no exception as she margin until Xavier cut the 
last five minutes of the first led all players in assists, with 7, Notre Dame lead to 4 with a half. and in minutes played, with 34 couple of three-pointers later in 
"We played very well at the out t>f two twenty-minutethe half. And then the invita­
end of the first half," McGraw tion arrived for Beth Morgan . see HOOPS/ page 16 

Pat Keaney catches Rob Naticchia in the seminfinals of the 175-pound division. Naticchia, the favorite, rebounded to take a unanimous decision. 

Farrell a Chip off old block after upset 
By MIKE NORBUT Associate Sports Editor 
An open cut over the bridge of Chip Farrell's nose necessitated his trainer to give him some advice. 
"He told me to keep my hands up," Farrell said. "I was getting hit way too much." 
But it meant something more to the boxer, seeing that his trainer was also his father. 
Pat Farrell's advice worked. His son fought his way to a split decision over junior Bob Lalor in the second semifinal of the 175-pound division. 
The match was the finest of the night, both from a fan's as well as a father's perspective. 
But the victory didn't come without some setbacks for the tandem. Farrell, who had sustained a cut over the bridge of his nose in his quarterfinal bout with sophomore Ted Lefere, had it reopened in the first round Wednesday by a strong Lalor jab. 
On top of that, the freshman lost a con­tact after the start of the match. But somehow, he seemed to take an early lead after the first bell. 
"I have to leave my contacts in," he 
Chad Harrison chases Matt Mulderrig during his 185-pound semifinal victory. see BEST I page 16 

ofnote...
MEN'S TENNIS 
The Irish used a strong team effort 

See Friday's Sports Extra for in 
to defeat Wisconsin. 

depth Bengal Bouts coverage. 
see page 18 

NDTENNIS 






