.r~~~~.~.~.~.~.~.~.~.-.~.~-~.~.~--.~.--------------~----------,-.-.-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

~150 YEARS~ 
' Y'S 
>
t n I I I c; I 
1:""'
Wednesday, January 18, 1995 • Vol. XXVI No. 67 ~NOTRE DAME·IN ~ 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
University benefactor DeBartolo dies 
Real estate developer left money for Quad 
Observer Staff Report 
Edward DeBartolo Sr., a real estate developer and significant benefactor of Notre Dame, died December 19, 1994, at his home in Youngstown, Ohio. He was 85. 
DeBartolo is best know in the Notre Dame community for DeBartolo Hall. which has been called the most technologically advanced teaching facility in higher education, according to a University press release. 
DeBartolo graduated from Notre Dame in 1932 with a de­gree in civil engineering. 
While at Notre Dame, he earned his tuition money work­ing as a concrete foreman on projects in the South Bend area from 11 p.m. to 7 a.m. 
"His $33 million gift in 1989, the largest individual gift in the history of the University, has underwritten both the devel­opment of the DeBartolo Quad­rangle and the construction on it of DeBartolo Hall," said University President Father Edward Malloy in the release. 
The Marie P. DeBartolo Center of the Performing Arts is also planned for the quad, and "will be part of the quadrangle and will usher in a new era in performing arts education at Notre Dame," Malloy said. 
"The scope of Mr. DeBartolo's generosity to his alma mater is such that it will touch every member of the Note Dame com­munity for generations to come. 
No words can 

Barnes motions to retry Rita for leaving scene 
By DAVE TYLER 
News Editor 
St. Joseph County Prosecutor Michael Barnes filed a motion at a January 4 court hearing ask­ing to retry Notre Dame Law School graduate .John Hila on a charge of leaving the scene of a fatal accident. 
Hila, 25, of Springfield, Virginia, was tried in November on charges of drunken driving and leaving the seene of an aecident in connection with the November 13, 1993, death of Notre Dame freshman Mara Fox. 
On November 9, a jury acquitted Hila of the drunk driving charge, but eould not reach a ver­dict on the other charge. Superior Court Judge William Albright declared a mistrial, which left Barnes the option to begin a new trial on that count. 
Barnes wants to add words to the leaving the scene charge that specifically state that Rita failed to return to the scene and render assis­tanee to Fox. The original charge does not denote that, but implies it, according to Barnes. He believes the required conduct should be spelled out for the court. 
Hita's attorney Charles Asher objected to Barnes' motion and asked for time to respond to it. 
Hegarding his decision to retry the charge, Barnes said he weighed his options for six weeks, and believed he was making the proper conclu­sion. After the hearing, Barnes said he reached his decision based on his review of the evidence, and reflections on the two-and-one-half week trial. 
lie went on to say that he "sincerely appreciat­ed" the show of support from the more than thousand people who signed petitions asking for a retrial circulated by supporters of Mothers Against Drunk Driving. But Barnes said that he could not let himself be influenced by those actions. "They did not compel me to go ahead (with the proceedings)." 
Barnes emphasized that he believed he made the best decision for the case considering all fac­tors including the wishes of Mara Fox's parents, but that public sentiment played no part in his deliberations. 
He said he did not believe that the jury's acquittal of Rita on the drunk driving charge would make getting a conviction on the leaving the scene charge any more difficult. 
Asher appeared in eourt without his client, and immediately filed a motion to dismiss the case. 
see RITA I page 4 

adequately 
acknowledge the University's debt to him." 
"As a Catholic community, we can and shall, however, re­member him in our prayers and bid him eternal rest in God," Malloy added. 
DeBartolo built more than 200 shopping malls covering 20 states, including University Park Mall in Mishawaka. 
In addition to shopping malls, DeBartolo also built horse-rac­ing tracks, office towers and parks, supermarkets and con­dominiums. 
He was also the owner of the San Francisco 49'ers. 
DeBartolo was born Anthony Paonessa in Youngstown, and was the son of Italian immi­grants. 
He began writing bids for var­ious construction projects at age 13 for his stepfather's com­
pany. 
He took the surname of his step-father, Michael DeBartolo, after his own father died. 
After graduating from Notre Dame, he returned to Youngstown and worked for his step-father for five years before going into business for himself in 1937. 
In 1989, Barron's magazine reported the DeBartolo's com­pany owned or managed nearly one-tenth of the total mall retail space in the country, visited by about 40 million customers each week. 
In 1991, DeBartolo was forced to sell his professional hockey team, the Pittsburgh Penguins, to raise money as the company was faced with a $4 billion debt. 
Once estimated with a per­sonal fortune in the billions, DeBartolo's assests were esti­mated this year at only $860 million, according to the October issue of Forbes maga­zine. 
DeBartolo typically began his 13 hour day at 5:30 a.m. and worked seven days a week, as recently as last month. 
When asked to explain his continued work schedule, he replied, "I can't understand this business of retirement." 
His wife, Marie, died on August 23, 1987. 
Survivors include a son, Edward Jr., a 1968 Notre Dame graduate; a daughter, Marie Denise DeBartolo York, a 1972 graduate of Saint Mary's; three sisters; one brother; and seven grandchildren. All live in Yongstown. 
The South Bend Tribune. The New York Times and Observer wires contributed to this report. 

ByJAMIE HEISLER 
News Writer 
The Martin Luther King, Jr. holi­day is a chance for people to reflect on how much progress has been made in the area of civil rights and also to realize how much more has to be done, according to Yolanda King, daughter of civil rights activist Martin Luther King Jr. 
"We have created sheer miracles (of technology), but despite these technological advances, the world is plagued with unhappiness. Intolerance, hunger, crime, and destruction overwhelm us. The reality still exists that we have not learned the simple art of living together as brothers and sisters," King said in her lecture Tuesday night at Washington Hall. 
Her lecture, "The Challenge to Ensure the Future: Nonviolence as a Way of Life," is the first in a series of events honoring the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday. 
This holiday, according to King's daughter, is a chance for people to "reflect from where we have come. He (King) inspired us to examine ourselves and to change society." 
Ms. King prefaced the lecture 
Week of events 
ho~o,~~'Jikor. King 
l}yJJ\Mili;tiEISLER 
.News Wlit~:r ·.· 
.g·.·. ;::· . 
A l~cture by Yolanda King, daughter of Dr. Martin Luther King. led off a series of events on campus held in honor of the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday, which celebrates what would be King's 66th birthday. Events will follow for the next week which promote King's belief in civil rights and the importance ofmulti•cultural awareness. 
L On Wednesday. January 18, a .<k .see EVENTS I page 4 
with lines from a poem by Langston Hughes questioning "What happens to a dream deferred?" This ques­tion remains significant in these times which are "perhaps the best or worse of times and which call for committment and movement," she said. 
The call for action and the im­portance of individual as well as collective non-violent action in the present time of crime, violence, and poverty were focused on by King. 
According to King, the impor­tance of the Civil Rights Movement was that it not only brought African Americans the right to vote but it inspired all movements for human rights and brought awareness to the entire world. 
King said, "The Civil Rights Movement raised the consciousness of the entire world and brought the South into the twentieth century. It must not stop here." 
King has chosen to use her own theatrical talents as well as her speaking ability to continue her father's civil rights work. "His was a dream of a multi-cultural society where we can come together, shar­ing power. We must not forget the sacrifices made to achieve the pre­sent gains," she said. 
A dream of her father's that remains lesser known was one which she called his "last dream," which was one of economic equali­ty. Martin Luther King believed that the freedom to vote meant nothing without the economic abili­
see KING/ page 4 

page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
When a 12 step program just w-on't do 
Well, we have been in class for only two days now and I am officially exhausted. This fact alone is not that surpris­ing but when you consid­er my break of TV watch­ing and sofa lounging, it is baffiing. I would not wonder or care so much 

if I had done something  Suzy Fry  
worthwhile, like remodel  Viewpoint Editor  
a room, write an epic, or  
hike the Andes. It is too  
early for mono, so there  

can be only one answer: break detox. 
Vacations are supposed to be a time to rest and recharge for the coming months. Getting caught up on your soap opera of choice is allowed but becoming an expert on pop cul­ture via Rikki Lake was not the intention. However, in the grand scheme, this is not problematic. Adjusting back to the real world from your own personal wasteland is. 
Going from the absolute madness of finals and the Christmas rush to three-weeks of sheer nothing can be disastrous, both physi­cally and mentally. The immense abyss between the syndicated reruns of "Who's the Boss" and "Designing Women" can be a lonely time. 
Soon enough I found myself investigating the fluorescent tube lighting in the laundry room which quickly evolved into a search for my old Nintendo. In my quest for my adoles­cent companion, I had a vision of a young woman roaming around the house for days, donned only in pajama bottoms and sweat­shirt. Her world became smaller and smaller as she collected all the vital necessities for prolonged nothingness. Soon, she had every­thing randomly placed around the couch­pretzels, water, kleenex, extra batteries for the remote, a big, plaid blanket and pillows, Red Hots, her loyal dog and People magazine. She didn't want much in life, maybe that was the attraction. 
A sweat quickly appeared on my brow as I realized this woman was me. I couldn't believe I had sunk to this level of dysfunction-. ality. Actually, a week or so as a psychologi­cal disorder really is not that bad. After all, think of the memories. I was there for Oprah's coming out when she divulged her secret past as a crack userz. I was there for the daily episodes of "ThirtySomething," always wondering why Hope never got togeth­er with Gary. I was there for Martha Stewart's visit to Bob Vila's house. I was there for the minute to minute coverage of O.J., his prison privileges, his book release and his squabbling attorneys-note the chronological order. I was there for the California floods and the misreport of two Cholera infested counties. I was even there for Connie Chung's whisper session. You get the point. 
Too bad interactive television is not a reali­ty. Can you imagine sitting in the courtroom next to a pesky reporter contemplating the welfare of sitcom stars and talkshow tell-ails as they face the natural and remodeling cata­strophes of tomorrow? Oh, what a brave new world this would be! Howwever, this could 
explain my exhaustion at the moment. So if 
you had a break like mine, don't rush off to 
the infirmary for a blood test. Just avoid the 
bookstore and have a seat before the tube. It is time to get your fix. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Production  
Gwen Norgle  Tara Grieshop  
Edward lmbus  Jackie Moser  
Sports  
Tim Sherman  Accent  
Viewpoint  Mary Good  
Suzy Fry  
Lab Tech  Graphics  
Michael Hungeling  Tom Roland  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Wednesday, January 18, 1995
The Observer· INSIDE 
• WORlD AT A GLANCE 
Researchers optimistic about new cancer testing 
NEW YORK The same computer technology that 
Colorectal cancer
created the dinosaurs in the movie "Jurassic Park" may someday let people 
160 
Thousands 

get faster and less cumbersome colon exams. And that might help persuade more people to get screened for colorec­
140 
tal cancer, which is expected to strike some 138,000 Americans this year. Technology now under study offers the 
120 
Colorectal cancer is

promise of a different way to examine 
expected to strike 

the colon, says radiologist Dr. David 
approximately 138,000 

Vining of the Bowman Gray School of 
Americans next year.

100
Medicine of Wake Forest University in 
Computer technology 

Winston-Salem, N.C. It's called "virtual 
will make colon exams

colonoscopy ," after the "virtual reality" 
faster and less

created by computer images. 
80 
cumbersome.

Using the new technology, physicians will only need to use one test to detect the cancer initially with the aid of a 
60
device called a colonoscope. Computer images may then be used to determine 
DEATHS 

Colonoscopy
the proper course of action and mini­
40 
A flexible tube with magnifying and 
mize any needed surgery 
lighting devices is inserted into the 
The 149,000 diagnoses of colon can­
colon via the anus and rectum, 
cer in 1994 continues the three year 
allowing a physician to view the 
20
trend of fewer cases from its peak of 
entire interior of the colon. 
almost 16,000 in 1990. Fewer are expected this year. 
Deaths by colon cancer also also decreasing slowly, with 56,000 last year. That number is also expected to fall with the new detection technology, 

Source: American Cancer Society. Simon & Schuster API Tonia Cowan
according to Vining. 
S. Carolina state-senator expelled  Children paralyzed after shot by mom  
COLUMBIA, S.C.  ORLANDO  
State Sen. Theo Mitchell, a veteran legislator in prison  Two children survived for several days after being par­ 
for tax-law violations, was expelled from the state Senate  alyzed by gunshots inflicted by their mother, who then  
on Tuesday. His attorney, Suzanne Coe, said she would  killed herself, police said Tuesday. The children were  
challenge the action because the Greenville Democrat  discovered after a co-worker looking for their mother  
had no chance to defend himself before the Senate voted  called police when no one answered the door at her  
38-7 to remove him. Mitchell is serving a 90-day sen­ home. Officers who broke the door open found the  
tence for failing to report cash transactions to the gov­ injured children and their mother's body Tuesday, said  
ernment, a misdemeanor. He is expected to be released  police Lt. Tom Langford. Jessica Fowler, 13, was on the  
from a federal prison camp near Atlanta later this month.  living room floor with a gunshot wound to the back. Her  
His supporters said the Senate should wait until he could  10-year-old brother, Adam, shot through the neck, was  
return to the Legislature to defend himself. Critics said he  lying in a bedroom next to the body of his mother, Karrie  
should be removed because he pleaded guilty. Mitchell  Lee Rhodes. The children were without food or water  
has been a state legislator for 20 years and was the first  since being shot about four or five days earlier, he said.  
black to run for governor of South Carolina this century,  The exact time of the shooting had not been determined.  
losing in 1990 to Republican Carroll Campbell. He plead­ Both children were in stable condition late Tuesday at  
ed guilty last fall to failing to tell the Internal Revenue  the Arnold Palmer Hospital for Children and Women,  
Service about $154,000 in cash transactions he handled  said nursing coordinator Kim Neuman. The extent of  
on behalf of a client later convicted of dealing drugs.  their paralysis has not been determined, Neuman said.  
British arrest five in bombing attack  Wolves returned home to Yellowstone  
LONDON  YELLOWSTONE NATIONAL PARK  
Police arrested five people today in connection with the  The government captured six wolves in Canada on  
bombing of the Israeli Embassy and the offices of a  Tuesday, capping its effort to trap 30 of the animals so it  
Jewish charity in July, Scotland Yard said. Two women  could return them to their original habitat in the north­ 
and three men were arrested as police executed search  ern Rocky Mountain states. Service officials and  
warrants under the Prevention of Terrorism Act. The  Canadian wildlife agents have worked since Jan. 7 to  
names and nationalities of those arrested were not dis­ capture the 30 wolves for release in Yellowstone National  
closed. A car bomb heavily damaged the Israeli Embassy  Park and central Idaho as part of the agency's effort to  
on July 26, injuring 14 people. A second blast early the  restore the species to the area they were driven out of by  
next day damaged Balfour House in north London. The  hunters and cattle ranchers six decades ago. Montana  
building housed Israeli and Jewish organizations, includ­ lawmakers have proposed a tongue-in-cheek measure  
ing the Joint Israel Appeal, a fund-raising group that sup­ calling for the release of wolves in New York City and San  
ports Israel and the Jewish community in Britain. No  Francisco. The American Farm Bureau Federation and  
group claimed responsibility for the attacks.  Mountain States Legal Foundation are suing the federal  
government in U.S. District Court in Cheyenne, alleging  
the plan violates federal law.  


The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, Jan. 18.
VVednesday,Jan.18 
Lines separate high temperature zones lor the day. 20s 
OHIO 
!IndianapoliS! 52° I 
ILL. 
• 

COLD  WARM  STATIONARY  C 1995 Accu-Weather, Inc.  
PressureH L  Ea  ESI  r:nl  0  ~  §  ~ ¥  ~ ,..-/\L-J. C-..i  
HIGH  LOW  SHOWERS  RAIN  T-STORMS FLURRIES  SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  PT. CLOUDY  CLOUDY  

Via Assodated PttJss 

AUanta  62  47  Dallas  46  32  New Orleans 72  49  
Battimore  54  35  Denver  38  16  New York  53  42  
Boston  46  37  Los Angeles 67  46  Philadelphia 53  42  
Chicago  34  22  Miami  76  62  Phoenix  59  39  
Sunny  Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  Columbus  49  41  Minneapolis 24  12  St. Louis  39  25  
C1994 Accu-Weather, Inc.  

o o o' I o I o o '1 o'' 
',I I I I o 

'I I' • I I I I I o o I o It I o I 
Wednesday, January 18, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
Kinder, Farmer face disciplinary hearing 
By DAVE TYLER 
News Edi1or 
Notre Dame sophomore run­ning backs Randy Kinder and Robert Farmer were to face a disciplinary hearing Tuesday to address a complaint filed by a female freshman student. 
The student has alleged that an incident took place in Grace Hall early October 16 shortly af­ter Notre Dame's loss to Bring­ham Young. 
The South Bend Tribune re­ported December 20 that a let­ter delivered on the 16th of that month notified the principals of a hearing scheduled to address "violations of University policy allegedly committed by Randy Kinder and Robert Farmer." 
University officials cannot comment or confirm the hearing or the allegations because of federal regulations concerning student privacy. · 
The alleged victim has not filed a complaint with local po­lice but may file charges after the disciplinary hearing, ac­cording to the Tribune. 
The hearing falls under the jurisdiction of the Office of Stu­dent Affairs. According to Du Lac, the University's student affairs guidebook, students found in violation of University or residence hall policy could be subject suspension of dismissal from the University. 
Neither the office of Student Affairs or Notre Dame Security must report incidents to the St. Joseph's County Prosecutor's office unless the alleged victim fully cooperates. 
The South Bend Tribune con­tributed to this report. 
If you see news happening, call the Observer 631-5323 
Delivery



Hours 

($8 minimum order) 
4:30-10:30 p.m. 
7 Days a Week! 



271-0125 

Happy Belated 21st 
ffill~®[ru®~~® ~ 
1/15/95 
Love ya, 
Mom, Dad, Mike & Boomer 
• SAiNT MARY'S RESIDENCE HAll ASSOCIATION 

Petition for lights on Douglas Road discussed 
By PEGGY LENCZEWSKI 
News Wri1er 
Leigh-Anne Hutchison, RHA member and Regina Hall coun­cil president, proposed the idea of circulating and then presenting a petition to the city of South Bend to put stop lights on Douglas Road at Saint Mary's Residence Hall Association meeting last night. 
Hutchison says that the lack of stop lights on Douglas Road became apparent after the death of Notre Dame Freshman Mara Fox last year. 
According to Hutchison, "Douglas Road is frequently used by Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, and it isn't exactly safe because there are no stop lights to control traf­fic." 
Hutchison said she would be willing to circulate the petition on both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses in conjunc­tion with Notre Dame's Hall Presidents Council. 
RHA also discussed plans for Little Sibs Weekend, which will be held February 3 and 4 at Saint Mary's. RHA has planned various activities for the visit­ing guests. 
According to RHA member Bridgette Farrell, last year's Little Sibs Weekend was a positive experience overall, but hopes "that more activities will be planned, since little kids are always looking for something to do." 
Plans for this year's Weekend include a pizza party, a scavenger hunt, and a movie. 
RHA officer Amy Kramer hopes that the weekend will be "a lot of fun." 
"I think the success of the weekend depends on what people make of it," she said. 
There was also an an­nouncement at the meeting that tickets for the Keenan Re­vue will be available on January 26 from four thirty to six o'clock at the O'Laughlin Box Office. 
The Keenan revue will be 
performed  on  Thursday,  
February  3,  to  Saturday,  
Feburary 5.  




Alumnus killed in accident 
Special 10 The Observer 
Joseph Claussen, a 1994 graduate of the College of Business Administration, died December 25 from complications relating to injuries sustained in an October accident. 
He is survived by his par­ents, Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Claussen Sr., of Glen Ellyn, Illinois, his sister Lisa (who graduated from Saint Mary's in 1993), and two brothers. 
Claussen worked at Deloitte & Touche in Chicago after graduating in May. 
His former rector, Father Joe Ross of Morrissey Hall, celebrated the Mass of Christian Burial at Saint James Catholic Church in Glen Ellyn on December 29. 
Friends, classmates and professors of Claussen are invited to Morrissey Hall on January 28 at 5 p.m. to cele­brate Mass and share in a meal in his memory. 

Gays banned from parade 
By GLEN JOHNSON 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 
A federal judge ruled Tuesday that a veterans group can bar homosexuals from its St. Patrick's Day parade this year b~cause the event is billed as an anti-gay protest. 
U.S. District Judge Mark Wolf said calling the parade a protest against previous court orders that allowed homosexu­als to march gives the South Boston Allied War Veterans Council the right under the 





--~· 

I ~ I 
11
with any purchase 

1 Good through 1/24/95. 1 'coupon per ptrson /If/' tl.jl'·
,
$10 minimum whtn using 1 thll coupon. 

First Amendment to exclude gays. 
"The First Amendment has been held to protect the rights of protesters to burn the American flag and of Nazis to march through a community of Jewish Holocaust survivors," Wolf wrote. 
The First Amendment, he said, protects speech "without regard to the truth or social utility of the ideas expressed." 
A spokesman for the Irish­American Gay, Lesbian and Bi­sexual Group of Boston said the organization had not decided if it would march in spite of the judge's ruling. 
"We're disgusted that a judge would support a protest that's taking the place of the St. Patrick's Day parade," said GLIB spokesman David O'Con­nor. 
Gov. William F. Weld also criticized the ruling, saying, "I think everybody should be al­lowed to march." 
Gays marched in 1993 under a state judge's order. 
Another state judge cleared the way for them to take part in 1994, but the veterans council canceled the parade rather than let them march again. 
The U.S. Supreme Court agreed to review those rulings, which called the parade a "public accommodation" that can't exclude gays. Arguments are scheduled for April. 
In the case before Wolf, the veterans council filed a federal lawsuit against the city, argu­ing that it couldn't force the veterans to let GLIB into the March 19 parade as a condition of the council's parade permit. Wolf ruled in favor of the veter­ans·. 
"If GLIB's inclusion in the 1995 parade were compelled, the veterans' protest would be confused and muted; indeed, the veterans' protest would be silenced because they would again cancel the parade," Wolf wrote. 
Wolf, however, went to great lengths to say that he doesn't agree with the exclusion. 


Looking for a place to stay during: r.. Junior Parents Weekend? r_. Graduation Weekend? r_. April Stud. Activity Events? r.. Home Football Games? 
Alumni Renting Out Historic Home For ND Special Events 
•Close 
to Campus (Just 2 miles Away!) 

•Safe 
Neighborhood 

•Competitive 
Rates 

•Fully 
Equiped Kitchen 

•University 
Club access 

•Summit 
Club access 

•5 
private suites w/ individual baths 

•Acconiodates 
up to 14 




Available to Show by Appointment Call Helen for More Information@ 219 287-8163 
page4 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, January 18, 1995 
King Events Chrysler reports earnings 
continued from page 1 
ty to succeed, according to Ms. King. 
The original march on Washington D.C. was only the beginning for the civil rights leader, who, according to his daughter, also dreamed of an even longer march on Washington. Dr. King wanted a march that lasted more than one day, and which involved negotiation and, if necessary, civil disobedience in order to benefit the economic situation of the nation's millions of poor, she said. 
This dream was meant to help others understand how much they have in common, but with it came the threat of realization to some that people of various ethnic backgrounds do need each other, according to King. 
"If you understand that dream, you'll understand why the bullet came and perhaps where it came from," she said. 
Personal responsibility was another part of King's "dream." Ms. King said it was important for each person to individually examine their own attitudes and prejudices and to be intolerant of all forms of racism and sexism. 
More importantly, she said, individuals should not force others to conform to a certain American standard, but indi­vidual cultures and differences should instead be highlighted. 
"America is not a melting pot but a brilliant mosaic, a patch­work quilt, or a beautiful salad." 
The idea of America as a melting pot was one of the many "cherished notions" that King said must be challlenged in order for progress to be made. She said, "The country will never cure racism without examining past errors. We can't change past errors, but we can make sure it never hap­pens again." 
The Martin Luther King Jr. 
holiday was created in order to 
bring attention to these errors 
and to promote action, Ms. 
King said. 
King, also, said she hoped 
that the holiday "inspires peo­
ple to unite to act and reach 
out to make a difference in 
your own backyard or on the 
other side of town. It should be 
a day on, not a day off; a day 
not only of words but deeds; a 
day not of apathy but of 
action." 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY Rooms in private homes for: JP\11, BWE & GOLD, GRADUATION, FOOTBALL and Other Special NDISMC WEEKENDS (219) 291-7153  

SUMMER lAW STUDY . Ill Dublin London Oxford Paris San Diego FOREIGN LAW PROGRAMS SCHOOL OF LAW UNIVERSITY OF SAN DIEGO 5998 Alcala Park San Diego, CA 92110-2492 t ~Uni..e~ity of &n Die&'  

continued from page 1 
forum will be held entitled "Speakout: Notre Dame Women and Men Speak Out on Human Dignity and Injustice." It will be held at 7 p.m. in Room 102 in DeBartolo Hall. 
On Friday, January 20, Bev­erly Vandiver, a psychologist from the Counseling Center, will be speaking and holding a discussion on "Growing up in a Family Committed to the Civil Rights Movement." 
The discussion will be held at noon in the Center for Social Concerns. 
The final event will be an In­terfaith Prayer Service at 7 
p.m. on Tuesday, January 24, at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
It will be lead by Brother Hugh Henderson, a priest from Saint Anthony Catholic Parish in Detroit. 
He will give a sermon enti­tled "A Prophetic Call for Change." 
By MIKE McKESSON 
Associated Press 

DETROIT 
Chrysler Corp. earned more than $3.7 billion in 1994, the biggest profit in its 69-year his­tory, and thousands of blue-col­lar employees are in line to receive bonus checks estimated at $7,500 on average. 
The previous annual earnings record for the nation's third biggest automaker was $2.4 billion set in 1984. 
For the fourth quarter of 1994, Chrysler earned $1.2 bil­lion compared with $777 mil­lion in the October-December period of 1993. The latest profit total reflected a favorable tax adjustment of $132 million. 
"Chrysler had an outstanding year in 1994 in just about every respect," Chairman Robert J. Eaton said in a statement. "We enjoyed record sales worldwide and record earnings." He said the profits from automotive sales were 7.5 percent of total sales, the highest percentage in company history. 
For all of 1993, the company had a net loss of $2.5 billion, because of accounting changes that produced a one-time re­duction in earnings of nearly $5 billion. 
Earnings-per-share were $3.20 for the fourth quarter and $10.11 for all of 1994, compared with $2.11 earned in the quarter and a yearly loss of $7.62 in the respective 1993 periods. 
Chrysler's revenues in 1994 were $52.2 billion, up from $43.6 billion in 1993. Fourth­quarter revenues were $14.3 billion vs. $12 billion a year ago. 

Rita 
continued from page 1 

He also filed a papers asking to have the windshield from Rita's car excluded as evidence and a discovery motion seeking to be informed of any new evidence the state may have. Asher pre­viously has tried without suc­cess to have Judge Albright exclude the windshield from did not plan to file a change of venue motion at the time of the hearing. 
Judge Albright did not set a trial date at the hearing. In­stead he ordered a hearing for 9 a.m. January 20th to address the several motions the attor­neys laid before the court. 
The South Bimd Tribune's Marti Heline and The Ob­server's John Lucas contributed to this story. 
the record. 

Fox was killed after the right front corner of Rita's car struck her, causing her to fly up and hit the windshield on the pas­senger side. 
Rita contended he was not drunk when he was driving the night of the accident, and the he did not stop because he and the four passengers in his car did not realize that the car hit anything. 
Asher told Albright that he 
Cooking isn't for you? 
Its never too late to sign up for a meal plan and let us
-


do the cooking 
Several meal plans are available to meet your specific 
n~eds. For more information, call 63 J-78 J4 or 
come into the Access Office on the lower level of 
South Dining Hall anytime during the semester. 
(Access Office, SOH-Room 4. formerly Vali-Dine Office)
-...' 
.. 
-...' 


Off-Campus Meal Plans Notre Dame Food Services 
1995-96 Assistant Rector Applications 


University Residence Facilities 


Are Now Available! 
Office of Student Affairs 
315 Main Building 
Through Friday, january 27, 1995 
Wednesday, January 18, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 


Pacific coast region disasters are compared 
California earthquake remembered in Japan 
Flood victims promised relief 
By SCOTT LINDLAW 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 

The images were all too familiar: rescue workers pulling victims from crumpled buildings. Collapsed freeways. A city afire. Even the dale was the same. 
This time, the earthquake struck on the other side of the Pacific Ocean, but for many people in Southern California, it stirred powerful memories of their own disaster. 
"I feel a tremendous sense of compassion because we all know what they're going through," said Elana Coren of Northridge, one of dozens who gathered at a church Monday night to remember the Jan. 17, 1994, quake. 
The magnilude-7.2 earth­quake that struck western Japan early today killed more than 1,300 people and injured thousands more. 
The magnitude 6. 7 Northridge quako precisely one year earlier killed 61 people and caused $20 billion in dam­age. 
At precisely 4:31 a.m. today, the hour when last year's quake struek, 1 ,000 people at­tended a candlelight vigil at the site of the Northridge Meadows Apartments collapse, which claimed 16 lives near the quake's ground zero. There were tears and a choked-up rendition of "Amazing Grace." 
"People of Kobe, we sympa­thize with you," read a card­board sign attached to the chainlink fence surrounding the site. 
Both quakes struck just be­fore morning rush-hour traffic. 
For Doug Richardson, televi­sion images of a Japanese office worker being tossed vio­lently back and forth took him back to the scene a year ago in his Los Angeles home. 
"I just remembered trying to get out of my house and not be­ing able to see your hand right in front of your face," he re­called. "I was telling myself, there's no way I'm going to live through this. My roommate was screaming for met to get out." 
The similarities may be chill­ing, but the Japanese quake is­n't likely to affect California, said Jim Mori, the seismologist who heads the U.S. Geological Survey office in Pasadena. 
"Stress on faults maybe can be transmitted a few miles, or a few tens of miles, but certain­ly something on other side of the world is not going to affect the seismic activity in Southern California," he said. 
California officials have given seminars to Japanese groups seeking to learn from the Northridge experience, and a top state search and rescue ex­pert was in Osaka, preparing for a conference on quake-re­lated issues, when the big one struck today. Osaka, not far from Kobe, had significant damage. 
By RON FOURNIER 
Associated Press 
SANTA MONICA, Calif 
In a visit loaded with political implications, President Clinton is touting his administration's goodwill effort after last year's earthquake and promis­ing even more help for this year's flood victims. 
With 54 electoral votes at stake in the 1996 presidential election, the White House can­not afford to look laggard in re­sponding to California's natural disasters -fires, floods, mud slides or earthquakes. 
"You could bill yourselves as a full-service disaster area," Clinton joked Monday night, ar­riving in south-central Los An­geles to commemorate Martin Luther King's birthday. 
Today is the first anniversary of the Northridge earthquake, which killed 61 people, injured at least 9,000 and caused $20 billion in property damage, buckling highways and crum­bling homes. It was the most expensive natural disaster in 
U.S. history. 
Across the Pacific, Japan was reeling today from an earth­quake that killed more than 1,400 people, injuring thou­sands and caused massive dam­age to property. 
Clinton, after talking Monday night with U.S. Ambassador Walter Mondale in Tokyo, said the United States "will stand ready to help" Japan recover, Press Secretary Mike McCurry said. The Federal Emergency Management Administration is prepared to offer technical ex­pertise and emergency re­sponse if requested, he said. 


Last year's Northridge earth­quake triggered a massive out­pouring of federal disaster re­lief. 
The White House said nearly $11.5 billion was made avail­able in recovery efforts, with direct aid going to more than 600,000 people. 
Clinton was visiting California State University at Northridge today to talk to quake sur­vivors, tour rebuilding projects and address the community. 
Afterward, he was expected to visit flood rescuers at a local fire station. He was then travel­ing to Roseville, Calif., to walk a flood-stricken street and talk to local residents. 
Before sunrise, Clinton began the day with a jog on the Pacific Coast Highway as the moon glistened on the water beside him. Clinton concluded his run in Venice Beach, a popular tourist hangout. As his motor­cade pulled away, a young man on the street dropped into a crouch and aimed his finger at the procession of cars, as if he were spraying it with bullets. A security car stopped and the man was admonished but not detained. 
Storms battering California for almost two weeks created floods and mud slides that killed at least 11 people and caused an estimated $300 mil­lion in damage. 
Eager to show his sympathy, Clinton produced special radio and television addresses for California last week. Aides bragged that the administration took less than an hour to ap­prove Republican Gov. Pete Wilson's request for federal aid. 
More than 10,000 people al­ready have applied for the aid, hoping for loan guarantees, temporary shelter or direct aid. Several agencies have anted up, including the Transportation Department, which released $5 million Jan. 12 and was to pro­vide another $15 million today. 
Applauding the resiliency of Californians, Clinton told the crowd Monday, "You keep com­ing back!" 
Aides shrug off suggestions that Clinton's disaster response was politically motivated. But they ,said it was important to get the federal government in­volved quickly and visibly; oth­erwise, voters blame the presi­dent. 
"I think Americans have the right to expect the government to act swiftly. I don't think there's anything political about that," McCurry said. 
Clinton, who won California in the 1992 election and has al­ways found political solace here, has watched his political fortunes sag in recent months. The most recent Los Angeles Times poll showed him with a 50 percent approval rating in the state, higher than his na­tional average. But that was in October, and the political land­scape has changed drastically since then. 


,.---..~----·-~~~----~------.--. .. ~~-:-;-,I,...--,,,--:--:---,--,.,..--,-,
---:--;--~-• 
,----:---;-, ;----,,--;----:-; 

page6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, January 18, 1995 
, o, I I 

FOR THAT WICKED CASE OF POISON IVY. 
1-800-COLLECT ® 
Save The PeopleYou Call Up To 44%. 

Wednesday, January 18, 1995 The Observer • WORLD NEWS page 7 
World 
markets ~ 
Performance of key stock markets 
IPercent .A.. 11 Previous close I change 
... '"'41·-..1· 

Amsterdam iMilan 
~I 415.38 1111.1o/11o723 I MW¥4 ... Mi.tfiN ··-···-·---·---···-····-··-l·············································-··-·· Brussels i Paris 
~11369.55 I! I0.8% II 1872.81 I liiijtSI) T Mil~1W ···---·······---·-r···-··· ----·­Frankfurt , Sydney 
~12085.641/i• Jl 1a1o.1 
1 

MU$i:fl l 0.08o/c MmiQM -··············---···---·······-··-··--t-·-·······-·--······-··-····--· 
~~~Tokyo
7504.24 :I 0.5%ll19331.17l 

EB.I : T IEtiiiEI London 
Zurich 


~I3078.7 I I0.3% II 2591.6 I 
WQ~fi+ T WJi:ti:M 
i 

MARKETS -rdam: C8S-nM shanlto-general. Bruoaela: Bel-20. Frankfurt: OAX. Hong Kong: Hang Seng. London: FT 100. Par1o: CA~.1bkyo: Nikkel. Sydney: N4 ~. ZOOch: Cradlt SUioae. Milan: MIB...: nol available. x....: holiday. 
AP 
Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 
Pope ends Asian tour, heads for Australia 
By VICTOR SIMPSON Between engagements in Associated Press Port Moresby, the pope rode in 
PORT MORESBY, 
Papua New Guinea 
Pope John Paul II, on an am­bitious Asian tour, faces his most grueling day yet \Nednesday as he ended a whirlwind stop at Port Moresby and headed for Australia. 
The pope's departure for Sydney was delayed by 25 min­utes by a mechanical problem that forced his plane to abort its takeoff and return to the airport terminal. 
Mechanics at Port Moresby's airport worked on the plane for nearly 20 minutes, but no ex­planation was given for the in­cident, which was broadcast on national television. 
John Paul began Wednesday by meeting with Prime Minister Sir Julius Chan, one of Papua New Guinea's 1 million Roman Catholics. and blessing the sick at a parish. 
Later, after an early-evening arrival in Sydney, the pope planned a public address. 
The 7 4-year-old pontiff needs a cane and his movements are still limited as he slowly recov­ers from hip surgery last April. He seemed relatively healthy in Manila, where he began his 11­day trip last Thursday, but ap­peared to wilt a bit Tuesday during an open-air Mass to honor a native martyr. 
a chair in the back of an open pickup truck, with a yellow awning providing the only pro­tection from the city's first rain in seven months. 
Filipino authorities, mean­while, provided more details Tuesday of a possible plot to kill the pope there, but two re­ported threats here were downgraded. 
During Mass on Tuesday, John Paul beatified Peter ToRot, a lay teacher ordered by Japanese occupation forces in World War II to halt his mis­sionary work. A Japanese mili­tary doctor killed him in 1945 with a lethal injection. 
"The wars. concentration camps and intolerance of our own time have yielded a rich harvest of martyrs in many parts of the world," John Paul said. 
"Today your fellow coun­tryman ... has been listed among them." 
Beatification, the last step before sainthood, is part of John Paul's program to give local role models to Catholic communities, especially where they are in the minority. Nearly a third of Papua New Guinea's population is Catholic. 
ToRot's exhumed bones were carried in a tiny casket, which was placed in a hut. 

By FRANCES D'EMILIO 
Associated Press 
ROME 
Happy birthday, Elisabetta -whenever it was, however you came into the world. 
A Rome gynecologist last week announced the birth of Elisabetta two years after her mother's death -from a frozen embryo thawed and im­planted in the womb of her fa­ther's sister. 
The news split the worlds of science and religion in a coun­try that has no laws about "test-tube" births. 
The case grew cloudier this week when one of Italy's pio­neers in pushing the limits of nature for motherhood publicly doubted whether Elisabetta was indeed born -at least the way Dr. Pasquale Bilotta said she was. 
Threading through the theo­logical and scientific argu­ments over Bilotta's decision to grant the wish of a childless widower whose wife died in a car accident was the question of where love ends and ego begins. 
Bilotta refuses to say just when Elisabetta was born, other than "about 20 days ago." He says he won't violate the privacy of the family by identifying them. 

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1995 JACC 8PMT04AM 
ALL PROCEEDS FROM THIS ALL-NIGHT SPORTS EXTRAVAGANZA OF COMPETEING ND AND SMC RESIDENCE HALL TEAMS TO BENEFIT THE ST. JOSEPH COUNTY SPECIAL OLYMPICS 

Cavanaugh I Alumni I McCandless Breen-Phillips I Stanford /Regina I Augusta Sorin I Walsh Fisher I Pangborn Badin I Dillon I LeMans P.E. I Grace I Knott Holy Cross I Morrissey I Lyons St. Ed's I Lewis Carroll/ Howard I Keenan P.W./ Flanner I Siegfried Zahm I Farley 
Call RecSports at 631-6100 for the name of your hall representative. 
Birth of child occurs after death of mother 
Details, however, may emerge soon. Italy's medical association has summoned Bilotta to a meeting Friday to verify that the birth took place and how. 
"Obviously, it's true," Bilotta said in an interview this week. He dismissed doubts as profes­sional envy. 
His principal doubter is Dr. Severino Antinori, the Rome gynecologist who set a world record last summer when his 62-year-old patient gave birth to a boy conceived from her husband's sperm and a donor egg. Antinori doubted Bilotta had the technical expertise and access to equipment for a suc­
cessful  pregnancy  from  a  
frozen embryo.  
The  case  also  brought  a  

stinging condemnation from the Vatican's official newspa­per. Catholic teaching opposes "in vitro" fertilization, donor eggs and "borrowing wombs." 
Bilotta, who is Catholic, says he followed "my conscience and my science" in deciding to implant the embryo. 
"As long as freezing of em­bryos is allowed, it's only right that the embryos aren't left in the freezer but are used," he said, sitting in the laboratory where eggs removed from pa­tients are mixed with sperm. 
A priest who teaches bioethics at Rome's Catholic University of the Sacred Heart gave Bilotta some backing on Tuesday. 
"Embryos are human be­ings" that deserve to be born, "even when not under the op­timal conditions" of a natural pregnancy, said the Rev. Gonzalo Miranda. 
But Miranda stressed that such dilemmas should be avoided in the first place by banning the use in vitro tech­niques. 
The July birth to a 62-year­old mother momentarily put the spotlight on Italy's lack of laws governing such proce­dures. Despite the outcry then, little progress has been made toward legislation in that area. A national committee on bioethics -whose recommen­dations would have been de­bated by parliament -has been shaken by resignations and political infighting. 

SOUTH PADRE ISLAND PANAMA CITY BEACH DAYTONA BEACH 
lti:S'If.i)£jl 
STEAMBOAT VAIL/BEAVER CREEK 
-----· 

page 8 Wednesday, January 18, 1995 
The Observer • NEWS 

Senate Democrats thwart balanced budget 
indicated how strongly he and Democrats are expected to pro­
Congressional 
perhaps some other Democrats pose. But with Republicans in are prepared to resist. the majority, Democrats con­votes to come "It's the acme of arrogance ceded the measure is all but for us as members of the Sen­certain to win ultimate ap­
within 10 days, ate and the House of Represen­proval. tatives to put forward a "This year Congress may very constitutional amendment to well pass a balanced budget
Dole says 
balance the budget without lay­amendment to the Constitution ing on the table so the and send it to the states," saidBy JIM ABRAMS 
American people can see what Sen. Joseph Biden, the senior 
Associated Press 
the plan is by which we expect Democrat on the panel. to reach that balanced budget The balanced budget mea­WASHINGTON 
by the year 2002," Byrd said. sure is the linchpin of the Re­Sen. Robert Byrd, one of the publicans' efforts to shrink gov­fiercest Democratic opponents 
"I don't propose to be ernment since it would force
of a balanced budget amend­
rushed," he said. "I may be run lawmakers to cut spending in
ment, today temporarily 
over by the streamroller but I order to balance the budget. 
thwarted Republican efforts to don't propose to get out of its Committee meetings need theadvance the measure through 
way or just jump upon it and unanimous consent of senatorscommittee. 
ride along with it." to continue more than two
With the Senate Judiciary 
Sen. Orrin Hatch, the Utah hours after business has begunCommittee debating the mea­
Republican who chairs the Ju­on the Senate floor. This con­sure, the West Virginia Demo­diciary Committee, said he sent is almost universally grant­crat, invoked a little-used Sen­
would call the panel back into ed.
ate rule to object to the 
session early Wednesday to But at 11:13 a.m. EST today
proceedings. Under Senate 
continue work on the amend­-an hour and 58 minutes
rules, any senator may block 
ment. after the Senate was called into any committeee from meeting "I hope he'll restrain the use session -Byrd said he objected more than two hours after the 
of this rule," Hatch said of to further action by the
Senate has convened for the 
Byrd, widely acknowledged to Judiciary Committee. 
day. 
be the master in using the Sen­He said that Republicans, by Republicans almost certainly 
ate's arcane rules to accom­not detailing what kind of
will have the votes they need to 
plish his political objectives. spending cuts would be re­
push the amendment -the 
Even though it had met for quired to balance the budget bycenterpiece of their "Contract 
nearly two hours, the commit­the year 2002, were keeping
With America" -through 
tee had scarcely begun work on Americans "in the dark as toCongress and to the states for several amendments that where the pain will be." 
ratification. But Byrd's tactic 
Mm  (IIDYOIA  
COllEGE  
IN MARYlAND  
MAsTER OF  eSTUDYABROAD  
INTERNATIONAL  e LEARN A LANGUAGE  
BusiNEss  e BUSINESS & CULTURE COURSEWORK  

AT LOYOLA COLLEGE IN MARYLAND 
For more information, please call Manette Frese at 1-800-221-9107, ext. 2836 • Fax 1-(410) 617-2161 • Internet address: MIB __ADMIT@Loyola.edu Address: Executive and Graduate Programs • The Sellinger School • Loyola College • 4501 N. Charles Street • Baltimore, MD 21210-2699 USA 
The House Judiciary Commit­tee approved the amendment last week. 
The measure requires ap­proval by two-thirds majorities in both chambers of Congress and ratification by three­fourths of the states before becoming the 28th Amendment to the Constitution. 
Support is strong in the House, although the Republican drive for quick passage has hit several snags. 
House Republican leaders are pushing for language in the measure that would require three-fifths majorities of both chambers to approve tax in­creases. "We believe that this is the superior version because raising taxes should not be the easy alternative to balancing the budget," Speaker Newt Gingrich, R-Ga., Majority Leader Dick Armey, R-Texas, and Majority Whip Tom DeLay, R-Texas, said in a statement Monday. 
But the three-fifths provision could imperil passage in the Senate, where support is weak­er. Sen. Nancy Kassebaum, R­Kan., the chairwoman of the Labor and Human Resources Committee, on Sunday com­pared the balanced budget amendment to the largely inef­fective prohibition amendment. The 18th Amendment, banning the sale of alcohol, was ratified in 1919 and repealed by the 21st Amendment in 1933. 
Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole, R-Kan., interviewed by guest host Ross Perot on CNN's "Larry King Live," predicted House and Senate votes on the balanced budget amendment in about 10 days. 
He said there would be "a big, big debate" but predicted the amendment would get the 67 votes it needs in the Senate. 
Dole did appear to suggest the amendment might not fully solve the budget problem. 


"THE FINEST IN OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING" 
·FOUR AND FIVE BEDROOM TOWNHOMES ·TWO BATHROOMS 
•SECURITY SYSTEMS ·KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR, AND RANGE 
·WASHER AND DRYER IN EACH UNIT ·GAS HEAT ·CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING ·PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT ·24-HOUR MAINTENANCE ·ONE MILE FROM THE NOTRE DAME 
CAMPUS 

NOW LEASING FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 
232-8256 
great scores... 

Kaplan helps you focus your test prep study where you need it most. 
We'll show you the proven skills and test­taking techniques that help you get a higher score. 
great skills... 
Kaplan has the most complete arsenal of test prep tools available. From videos to software to virtual reality practice tests with computerized analysis to great teachers who really care, nobody offers you more ways to practice. 
Call: 1-800-KAP-TEST 

*Information Meeting january 18 6:30 -7:00 pm Center for Soda! Concerns 
APPUCATION DEADLINE February 8 
$1500.00 SCHOLARSHIP (ND students only) 
Eight weeks of service 
work during the summer 
In cities of NO Alumni Clubs across the US Come and fmd out what SSPs are all about 
get a higher score 
KAPLAN 
Wednesday, January 18, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 9 
Shabazz called alleged hit man New drug introduced 
to treat alcoholisDl 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS 

Qubilah Shabazz made a nui­
sance of herself by calling ex­
roommates of the man with 
whom she is accused of plotting 
to kill Louis Farrakhan, the 
Star Tribune reported today. 
The calls from Malcolm X's 
daughter came as frequently as 
twice a week beginning in 
September, a month after 
Michael Fitzpatrick was kicked 
out of the apartment he shared 
with others, the paper said. 
"I think the last time she called was actually a week ago Sunday," said Matt Forsti, a former roommate. "She wanted to know, 'Have you heard any­thing; do you know where he can be reached?"' 
Shabazz, 34, is scheduled to appear Wednesday in federal court in St. Paul. A nine-count indictment unsealed Thursday accuses her of conspiring to kill Farrakhan, the leader of the Nation of Islam. If convicted, she faces up to 90 years in prison and $2.25 million in fines. 
Prosecutors have said Shabazz moved to the Twin Cities in September and made a partial payment to a would-be hit man who will testify against her. 
While prosecutors won't dis­close his name, he is widely re­ported to be Michael Fitz­patrick, a childhood friend of Shabazz who took the name Michael Kevin Summers after entering a federal witness pro­tection program several years 
If you signed up for 
Co~-mJ-ties :~· 

remr;m/Jr;r thr; 
ago. Forsti told the newspaper that Fitzpatrick used both his real name and the name Sum­mers. 
Forsti said calls were for­warded when the roommates moved from their apartment here to the suburb of St. Louis Park, and they continued hear­ing from Shabazz. 
A man who identified himself as Kevin, another former room­mate, said he took more than two dozen of Shabazz's calls. 
When she was 4, Shabazz watched as her father was gunned down before a crowd of spectators in New York City in 1965. A year later, three Mus­lims were convicted of the mur­der. 
Farrakhan was a follower of Malcolm X, but later became a rival in the struggle to head the Nation of Islam. Malcolm's widow, Betty Shabazz. has said she believes Farrakhan was in­volved in his murder. Far­rakhan has denied that. 
Forsti told the Star Tribune that he and his roommates were led to believe that Fitz­patrick had encouraged Shabazz to move from New York City to Minneapolis. 
Fitzpatrick, who was ordered out because of friction between him and his roommates, told them he had dated Shabazz for a short time, Forsti said. 
Forsti told the paper that a number Shabazz left was traced back to her Minneapolis home, which has an unlisted number. 
A woman who described her­self only as a friend of Shabazz from their church answered the newspaper's call and ac­knowledged that she was talk­ing from Shabazz's home. 
"Her friends are protecting her privacy at the moment," the woman said. "She's doing pretty well under the circum­stances." 

By STEVE SAKSON 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
A once-a-day pill heroin ad­dicts take to help them kick the habit will now be given to alco­holics, making it the first new drug used to fight alcoholism in nearly 50 years. 
Researchers, who concluded that the drug naltrexone has some benefit in blocking the craving for alcohol, cautioned, however, that it does not repre­sent a "magic bullet" in the battle against alcoholism. 
The manufacturer. DuPont Merck Pharmaceutical Co., said Tuesday it would sell the drug as a supplement to traditional alcoholism therapy. 
Available since 1984, naltrex­one blocks the euphoria people feel after taking heroin and other narcotics. 
The Food and Drug Adminis­tration gave DuPont Merck au­thorization on Dec. 30 to mar­ket the drug for use against al­coholism after two studies in­volving 167 people showed it also appears to curb alcoholics' cravings. 
The only other drug now sold for alcoholism is Antabuse, in­troduced in 1948, which makes a person nauseous when they drink. Researchers said Tues­day that it hasn't been very successful because 80 percent of patients fail to take it prop­erly. 
They were cautious in their expectations for naltrexone. 
"None of these studies indi­cate this is a substitute for good psycho-social treatment -12­step programs like alcoholics anonymous," said Dr. Charles O'Brien, a professor of psychia­try at the University of Pennsyl­vania. 
Drugs like naltrexone "address some unmet needs in alcoholism treatment, but no single medication is a magic bullet," O'Brien said, using the term once applied to penicillin. 
The drug, which has been sold under the brand name Trexan, in the future will be called Hevia. 
Doctors are allowed to pre­scribe approved drugs for any reason they see fit, and some have already been using nal­trexone for alcoholism, the re­searchers said. 
DuPont Merck -a partner­ship of the nation's biggest chemical company and the biggest prescription drugmaker -plans to sell the once-a-day pill for a wholesale price of $3.80 per day in a treatment program lasting three to six months. Patients who can't af­ford it will receive it for free, said DuPont Merck's president and chief executive, Kurt Land­graf. 
Alcohol is the most widely abused drug in the United States, and about 15 million Americans are alcoholics, the researchers said. 
They estimated the annual cost of the disease at $100 bil­lion in premature deaths and illnesses, lost productivity, treatment costs and other expenses. 
In the two studies, both done in 1992 in conjunction with counseling, scientists said the drug reduced euphoria, cut the craving alcoholics feel for drinking and also reduced the resulting relapses into drinking that many people suffer after quitting. 
A 12-week study of 70 long­term alcoholic men done by the University of Pennsylvania showed 23 percent who were on the drug relapsed compared 

· with 54 percent of those given a placebo. Those who did drink while on the drug drank less frequently and in smaller quan­tities. Asked which kinds of people would be best suited to naltrex­one, the researchers said they weren't sure and that broader studies are planned to find out. The major side effect of the drug is nausea, which was ex­perienced by about 10 percent of patients who have taken it. About 7 percent got headaches, and smaller numbers suffered from dizziness, nervousness, fatigue or insomnia. DuPont Merck executives said sales expectations are modest. Naltrexone brought in about $14 million last year as a nar­cotics treatment and the com­pany expects an additional $20 million this year. Paul Wood, president of the National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence, a New York-based education and ad­vocacy group, said the drug ap­pears to have potential. 
RALLY DAY! 
11:00 a.m. -4:00 p.m. Saturday, Jan. 21 
LaFortune BaJiroom 
lunch will be served!­
If you would 6tll/ 1/kt: to 6/gn up for Communltlt:6 NO. comt: to t:ltht:r Campu6 Mlnl6try offlct: PY THUKSOA Y JAN. 19 for a form. 
"adln Hall 103 He5tlurgh Library or call Kate "arrett Darrell Paulsen 631-5242 

OrFICE ur KEClEI\ fiUi'\Al SPORTS 
RecSport PLAYER BOARD 
WHAJ:  The PLAYER BOARD is used for persons interested in invidual sports who are having trouble finding opponents.  
1YHQ:  Any N.D. Faculty, Staff or Student.  
IDlY:  Help in finding partners in the sport of your choice.  
:wHEN:  Thats's up to you! Call the RecSport Issue Room at 631-5267 for court reservations.  
WUERE:  At any available court space. See your friendly  

-c(romna...-fMa=rft-m~:IJI 
*THE RecSport PLAYER BOARD IS LOCATED THE WALL NEXT TO THE RecSport OFFICE.. "'"''~u.;­INTO THE OFFICE FOR YOUR OWN FORM. 
•• IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS REGARDING THE PLAYER BOARD PLEASE CALL 631-6100. 
--------------~------­
------------~----­
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ......................•......... David Tyler Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor .•...................... Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayrer Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Acrent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Don Kingston Photo Editor ....................... Scorr Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Ediror ............... Elizabeth Regan Controller ..................................... Kristen Manina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notte Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, le[[ers and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313. Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu Generallnformation 631-7471 Unix observe!®boron.helios.nd.edu 
Wednesday, January 18, 1995 

~~~~~-RDI~ 
~\-\IKe c:Rti-t 
DA'{ 
cA~~TM~~ ~eN 
.:fti-t 'VM 
~~o=A~­'f\~ cf t\-t c;W 
OJ. 

• lETTERs m THE Emn.n1 

Dear Editor: sure you're well-qualified for a top­
Way to go Ozersky! In one short, in­notch job in either the want ad circular depth, well-thought-out column, you industry or the warehouse of the local managed to insult a 6-year P.O.W., 5 Quickie Mart. career military members, a half dozen military retirees, several dozen combat RODLEKEY veterans, and a tenth of the student Lieutenant population. With a record like that I'm U.S. Navy 
ROTC offers more than cammies 
Dear Editor: Dame. It is more than liberal arts 
The ROTC people must be glad to majors. Have you forgotten know that Josh Ozersky ("No more Architecture, Business, Engineering and cammies on campus", Dec. 8) does not Science? He may want to consider feel their program is "bad." investigating the quality of a ROTC pro­Furthermore, they---------------gram, which is com-must be gratified to 'perhaps it would be prof-posed of career-ori­learn that ~e has itable for him to spend ented, self-starting the authonty to . d' . h d" individuals who 
approve of their ~<?re !1me ISCovenng ~ e 1ver-have both an identi­wearing uniforms. S1f1cat10n of the education at fiable career objec-Perhaps it would be Notre Dame.' tive and realistic profitable for him to means of obtaining. spend less time looking at their cam­mies and more time discovering the JUDITHKLOC diversification of the education at Notre Summer Session Office 
•  Dm.lNESBURY  
ANI/U/HER/3 &XJICT/..Y !A? I FIT IN70 7HI'3 PLAN, 51!<~  U/CU,/NITIAL-­1-Y; I f/GU!?W Y()(J'Cl8t3 lltN M07Htl< ,.,  

Where is NO's moral leadership? 
Dear Editor: 

A few weeks ago, I was hit with two important pieces of news from Notre Dame. The first was my (incredibly won­derful) sisters' e-mail which was bub­bling with pride over the recent efforts of the women's soccer team (Way to go ladies!). And the other was Daniel DeLuc's important article on African-. Americans and their resident-alien status in the United States' version of the Catholic Church. 
But it was the juxtaposition of these which really got to me. Something in this mix was begging to be discussed and after writing and re-writing this letter five or six times, I think I've stumbled upon some usually unspoken issues that are real and I feel the Notre Dame com­munity needs to address with some uncomfortably honest dialogue. 
1. 
The need after 20 years of being "co­ed" for Notre Dame to further and fur­ther shake up its campus identity as a male-dominated, football school. 

2. 
The time for Notre Dame to make a real-not simply rhetorical-institutional stance promoting racial, cultural integra­tion in its own house at a time when the national trends are not promising on either level. 


I would hope that the form and posi­tion of this stance should become an important campus and alumni debate soon. As alumni we should participate in more ways than our fall pilgrimages and contribution checks. I have been very impressed with the programs of continu­ing alumni involvement in the life of the Notre Dame family and call for people to continue this discourse. 
Sport and the powerful sociology sur­rounding these businesses are losing all sense of proportion to reality. When we shrug off social problems as "obvious" or "plain common sense" we lose our footholds in the realms of cause and effect. What we lose is the ability and desire for real concerted care for authen­tic, collective community living and action. Women have long been second­class citizens on NO's campus and it needs to change. 
Secondly, most of the recent conserva­tive moves to the right including California's Proposition 187 and the sci­entifically-protected racism of the recent IQ study do not feel any sort of ownership in the Catholic Church, at the University or in larger society. For· my senior research project, I researched the history of African-American students at ND. I was awakened to a little discussed skele­ton in our Catholic closet as I read the letters written by past presidents of Notre Dame denying black Catholics admission on the (weak and irresponsible) premise that they did not want to upsef the ten per cent of the university from the south. 
And for duLac to point out that Notre Dame graduated a black student in 194 7 is being generous-he was almost forced in because he was a WWII veteran. Notre Dame didn't have a graduating class including more than ten African­American students until the 1970's. And it was not a funny coincidence in ND his­tory that the first black student body president at ND was followed soon by the infamous king and his court discrediting any real achievements for minorities achieved through determined collective action. Something that my generation is quite afraid of. 
Race and gender are at a crucial cross­roads. We need leadership in enacting the gospel values-this Christian rhetoric melts into cliche anlf the meaning of the symbols fade and change if they are not reinforced in reality. Notre Dame should take a stand on these issues-as well as allowing the showcasing of black athletes to make millions for a school that doesn't publicly show to be on their side-before they become assumed and reach the impenetrable level of common sense and tradition. 
As a student and as an alumnus I urge the university and Notre Dame to show real lacking moral leadership by rethink­ing our cliches and stretching our self­conceptions for the sake of a better defin­ition of who we are and who we want to be. 
SEAN SCANLON 
Notre Dame '91 


GARRY TRUDEAU 


... BUT7H&N I 7JIOUGH7; HEY, 5Ht~ A'31AN-KNOWS HeR NUM813<'3.' MIGHTA9 /A/&t-/...-1£!H&R CIXJI< 7H& 
800K7! I 

''Be nice to people on your way up because you'll meet them on the way down." 
-Wilson Mizner 


ffi;_, FII.ESffA. t~~ 


~&w., Bo~;, dl~ 

COLORADO NOTRE DAME 
41-24 
FOOLED 

• Bill McCartney out-schemes Lou Holtz and the Irish in his final game. 
-page 3 


Debacle in the desert 
Colorado exercices its options in Fiesta Bowl blowout 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sports Ediror 
/TEMPE, Ariz. A sleek quarterback, the option, and a coach is carried ofT the field. A fond farewell, a surprising good-bye, and a blowout. Colorado 41, Notre Dame 24. All for the BufTaloes, nothing for the Irish. 
Under a desert sky, the University of Colorado did what it had but once all season, dominated an opponent. The prey was Notre Dame who could not stop Buffaloes' quar­terback Kordell Stewart on the option, couldn't spoil the final game for Colorado coach Bill MeCartney, and was simply a note in the final chapter of lleisman Trophy win­ner Hashaan Salaam's book of slats. 
Colorado (11-1) finished No. 3 in the polls behind a big day from Stewart, a team day from Salaam, and as line a eoaehing perfor­mance by MeCartney in his 13 years in Boulder. Colo. 
"For our players to play so well against a great team like Notre Dame and send us ofT like this is something I'll savor for the rest of my life," McCartney said. 
McCartrwy's curtain call was also the final 
see IRISH I page 2 
• 
Only the 
•
Jerseys were Champions 
W
TEMPE, Ariz. hen Notre Dame last visited this sun-soaked eity, l.ou Holtz allowed no alterations to his players' regular-season 
Jason Kelly 
uniforms. 
Associate Sports 
No logos. No last 
Editor 
names. Nothing but basic: 
blun. But stylns, like fortunes, change. Six years to the day after the unadorned 
Irish won the national championship here, they rnturned dressed in gaudy green, a ploy reminiscent of an even more distant era. 

Like the Gerry Faust era. Or the Dan Dnvine era. Coaches whose gimmicks sometimes exceeded their gameplans. 
It is telling of his team's mental approach that lloltz, a motivator of some renown. had to reaeh into a laundry bag of trieks to inspire the Irish. 
Colorado, on the other hand, rallied around its retiring coach and played clas­
see KELLY I page 3 


•' ''I • • •, • 1 1 • • I 

Wednesday, January 18, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA page 2 
McCartney ends great ride 
By JASON KELLY 
Associate Sports Editor 
TEMPE, Ariz. 
"Thanks for a great ride Coach Mac," read a sign near the tunnel that led to the Colorado locker room. 
It was the final farewell to the Buffaloes' departing football coach Bill McCartney, who finished his 13-year tenure with a 41-24 win over Notre Dame in the Fiesta Bowl. 
"This game is something I'll savor for the rest of my life," said McCartney, who led Colorado to the national championship in 1990. "Winning my final game against a program like Notre Dame is something I'll never for­get." 
McCartney and Notre Dame have met before in big games, most big­ger than his last. In the 1990 and 1991 Orange Bowls, the Irish and the Buffaloes met, with Colorado winning in 1991 to secure a share of the national title with Georgia Tech. 
In that game, Rocket Ismail ran a punt back for a touchdown on the final play of the game, but it was called back because of a clip­ping penalty. 
In 1990, Notre Dame defeated top-ranked Colorado 21-6. 
McCartney announced his retire­ment after Colorado's regular sea­son-finale against Iowa State, cre­ating some confusion within the 

The Observer/Kyle Kusek Rashaan Salaam, who scored three touchdowns, is headed for the pros. 
coaching staff that some thought would hurt the Buffaloes against the Irish. 
Instead, it proved to be a rallying point, not that Colorado needed one. 
And McCartney, for one, wasn't caught up in the emotion of the moment. 
"I was more into the game rather than the fact that it was my last one," he said. 
His abrupt resignation in November stunned people close to the program, but he felt it was the best time for his family and for his future. He now has a higher call­ing, though coaching may call again someday. 
"Right now, I plan to get away with my wife. We're going to spend a lot of time together," McCartney said. "And then I'll seek the Lord and see what's around the corner." 


Rashaan, Bobby bid adieu 
Junior standouts opt for big bucks in NFL 
ByRIAN AKEY 
Associate Sports Editor 
TEMPE, Ariz. 

A pair of players bade farewell to college football under drastically different circum­stances. 
Colorado's Rashaan Salaam and Notre Dame's Bobby Taylor each gave up their final season of eligibility to enter the NFL Draft. 
Salaam, the Heisman Trophy winner, leaves as only the fourth back in NCAA his­tory to rush for more than 2,000 yards in a season. 
"I've decided that this is my last game in a CU uniform," Salaam told the reporters gathered for a post-game press conference. 
Unlike his Colorado counterpart, Taylor left a little controversy in his wake. After an inconsistent regular season, he was sus­pended for the bowl game for accepting compensation in exchange for his com­plimentary tickets to the regular-season finale at Southern Cal. 
Despite winning the Heisman Trophy, Salaam is not considered the top running back prospect in the draft. That honor goes to Penn State's Ki-Jana Carter. 
Taylor's lackluster season reportedly hurt his status among some NFL scouts, but he has long been considered a top professional prospect. 
MAYES STAYS: Notre Dame's other underclassman considering abandoning the college game, wide receiver Derrick Mayes, chose instead to return to school for his senior year. 
After catching four passes for 93 yards and two touchdowns against Colorado cor­nerback Chris Hudson, considered the best in the business, Mayes' decision became a little more difficult. 
But ultimately he stuck to his initial plan and he will be back in an Irish uniform in 1995. 
HOUNDING HUDSON: How much did Hudson hound Mayes? 
"I met (Hudson) in the mall (in Tempe)," Mayes said. "He even followed me into a candy store. He told me to get used to it." 
Hudson didn't have quite the sticking power during the game. 
CARTER IN '96: With a lighter schedule and some experience on the offensive line, many expect Notre Dame to rebound from its rough season and return to its familiar position among college football's elite in 1995. 
Lou Holtz is not one of them. The Irish coach compares Notre Dame's chances to Jimmy Carter's presidential aspirations. 
"Jimmy Carter has a chance to be presi­dent in '96. We have a chance to win the national championship in '95," Holtz said. "I cannot, at this time, estimate which has a better chance." 
PEES BE WITH YOU: Irish secondary coach Dean Pees has left the program to accept the defensive coordinator position at Michigan State. 
That leaves Notre Dame searching for its fifth defensive backs coach in the last six seasons. 
HE'S A SOLLMANN: Soi .omore Scott Sollman put a new wrinkle into the kicking game, returning five kicks for 103 yards, including one for 38. 
A scholarship centerfielder on the base­ball team, Sollman joined the football team early in the season, but hadn't been the deep man on kickoffs before the Fiesta Bowl. 

Irish 
continued from page 1 
stage for Salaam who announced after the game he would forego his senior sea­son to enter the NFL draft. 
"I'm leaving with coach Mac," Salaam said. "I got to do what I got to do." 
It was hardly Salaam's finest effort (87 yards on 27 carries) but surely his most giving. The junior standout was spared in favor of a more balanced attacking fea­turing option quarterback Kordell Stewart. 
The 6-foot-3, 210-pound senior totaled 348 yards total offense. He carried seven times for 143 yards and a touchdown, and completed 11 of 20 passes for 205 yards and another score. 
"I was scared of the option and Kordell Stewart made a lot of plays on that," Irish coach Lou Holtz said. "That's as fine a performance I've ever seen a football team put on against a team I was coach­ing." 
If the talents of Stewart, Salaam, and Colorado defense which sacked Irish quarterback Ron Powlus weren't enough, McCartney pulled it all out in his final game. A pair of new looks pulled a cur­tain over Holtz's eyes in a setting where the Notre Dame coach has a history of prosperity. 
McCartney used a three-wideout set which he hadn't shown all season and switched his defense front, two changes to which the Irish never adapted. 
The new offense spread the defense out and allowed Stewart to round end un­touched on the option. The switch from a 50 defense to a 4-3 chased Powlus all day long and limited Notre Dame to only 149 yards rushing on 45 carries. 
"We caught them off-balance with our new defense," McCartney said. "We just felt we needed to do something to keep them off-balance because if you give Notre Dame a month to prepare, they're hard to defeat." 
The Irish (6-4-1) are easy to defeat when they allow 6.3 yards per rush and couldn't give Powlus enough time to straighten his helmet. 
"The pressure we got on Powlus was extremely good. If he weren't so active and so talented, we'd have got him more times than we did," McCartney said. 
After building a 10-3 first quarter lead behind a one-yard touchdown from Stewart to Christian Fauria and a 33­yard field goal by Neil Voskeritchian, Colorado exploded for 21 unanswered points to start the second period. 
Notre Dame answered with a seven­yard pass from Powlus (18-34 for 259 yards and one interception) to Derrick Mayes to leave the score 31-10 at the half. 
The Irish came out inspired to start the third quarter, going 78 yards on 17 plays and eating 6:56 off the clock. But a fake field goal attempt on fourth and goal from the five was thwarted when Charlie Stafford's pass for Ray Zellars fell short. 
After holding the Buffaloes, Powlus needed only one play to fmd the endzone. Mayes made a leaping grab of a 40-yard pass in the back of the endzone with All­American cornerback Chris Hudson in tight coverage. 
Colorado added another field goal and a 5-yard run by Salaam, his third score of the game. Notre Dame completed the scoring with a late pass from Powlus to tight end Leon Wallace from seven yards out. 
"This was our greatest performance of the season, make no mistake about it," McCartney said after concluding his career at Colorado with a 93-55-5 record. He also stopped Holtz from earning his 200th career win. "We played our best today, on both sides of the ball." 
QUARTERBACK B It is hard to judge Powlus when he was sacked seven times and on his back most of the afternoon. He didn't makle any horrible decisions and tried to make plays when they weren't developiong as designed. 
RUNNING BACKS 8 No turnovers, but no big gainers either. Lee Becton and Ray Zellars deserved better sendoffs. Only 149 yards as a unit, but that can be blamed on the... 
OFFENSIVE LINE 0 Hopefully this will be the last time the offensive blame falls on this group. Powlus was "running scared," and it had nothing to do with Billy Crystal and Gregory Hines. No running game, no time for the QB, no offense. 
RECEIVERS 8+ 
Derrick Mayes went up against Chris Hudson, considered by many to be the best cover man in the nation, and totalted 94 )'ards on four receptions and one touch­down. If anyone thought he wasn't ready for the NFL, quess again. Powlus spread it out well and the unit responded. 
DEFENSIVE LINE C-
Rashaan Salaam didn't have a big day but that was by design. The pass rush wasn't there with zero sacks. 
LINEBACKERS C-
It was clear that this unit lacked the team speed to contain Kordell Stewart on the 
option. Blame the coaching staff a bit for not preparing the unit for different looks 
but as a whole the performance was down. 
SECONDARY 0 
It hurt not having Bobby Taylor but that's just an excuse. The option was a killer 
and Stewart, know mostly as a runner, did in the air to for 205 yards. Everyone 
returns in 1995. Is that a good thing? 
SPECIAL TEAMS 8 
Returns and coverage were decent and kicking game was surprisingly steady. 
Scott Sollman is probably not the answer as a speedy returner, but it was a good 
effort. 

COACHING 0 
Bill McCartney outclassed Lou Holtz and Notre Dame paid for it. The man who 
came up with a gem in the Sugar Bowl was all Cubi Zirconia in Tempe. 
OVERALL GRADE 2.1 
The season is over. Go in peace and love and serve until next year. 
-RIANAKEY 

page 3 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA Wednesday, January 18, 1995 
McCartney takes Holtz, Irish to school -· 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports EJitor 
TEMPE, Ariz. 

It was supposed to be Lou lloltz's role. For isn't Notre Dame's coach considered the master of big-game tactics, baf­l'ling opponents with his schemes and surprises? 
Well, apparently not. 
Colorado coach Bill MeCartney played the role of gnnius in the Fiesta Bowl, best­ing lloltz and the Irish with new-look formations that played a large part in the Buffaloes' 41-24 win. 
"They came out offensively and ran two backs in the back­field. They ran three wideouts which they had never done be­fore," Holtz said. 
"Defensively, they played 11 games when they were in a 50 defense. Eleven games. And there wasn't a snap this year when they weren't in a 50 front. Today, the never lined up in a 50 front the whole game." 
Colorado's surprises on both sidns of the ball paid large divi­dends, particularly on offense where quarterback Kordell Stewart amassed 348 yards to­tal offense, 205 through the air. Gaping holes in the Irish de­fense allowed big play after big play. 
"That's what hurt us the most," linebacker Justin Go­lllle n said. "There were so many times when we had them third and eight, third and 11, third and 10 and they popped a long one us." 
The popped the most to the outside where they Irish were thin thanks to a spread offense that the Irish hadn't practiced against. 
"We had been practicing against two tight ends for a month and they ran it maybe live or six times," Goheen said. 
Notre Dame was geared to stop 1-Ieisman Trophy winning tailback Hashaan Salaam (83 yards on 27 carries) but in do­ing so allowed Stewart to run free around the corners. 
"By playing a lot less two­tight-ends, we hamstrung Rashaan," McCartney said. "But we felt we had more diversity in our attack. 
"We made some changes a month ago because we respect the entire Notre Dame team," McCartney said. " We caught them off balance. We just felt we needed to do something to keep them off-balance because if you give Notre Dame a month to prepare for you they are hard to defeat." 
Notre Dame made some ad­justments at halftime after get­ting a stern dose of the new look Buffaloes but the changes didn't make a large enough dif­ference for the Irish to come back from a 31-10 halftime deficit. 
"I just haven't seen a football team that sharp and that crisp and that explosive overall," Holtz said. 


TEAM RECORD POINTS 10us 
1. Nebraska (51.5) 13-0-0 1539 1 
2. Penn St. ( 1 0.5) 12-0-0 1497  2  
3. Colorado  11-1-0 141 0 4  
4. Florida St.  10-1-1  1320  7  
5. Alabama  12-1-0 1312  6  

PASSING-Notre Dame: Powlus 18-34-t-259 3TD. Stafford 0·1·0·0. Colorado: Stewart 12-21-0-226 1TD. 
RECEIVING-Notre Dame: Mayes 4-93 2TD, Beclon 3·60, Mosley 3·34, Zellars 2·25. Slafford 2-22, McBride 2-21, Wallace 1· 7 1TD. Colorado: Weslbrook 4-70, Kidd 2·83, Savoy 2-58, Fauria 2-3 1TD. Carruth 1·6, Salaam 1·6. 
TACKLES-Notre Dame: Gibson 7, Nau 7. Grasmanis 6. Magee 5, Wooden 5. Davis 5, Covington 4. Sample 4. Talum 4. Wynn 3, Goheen 3. Ham ilion 3. Cobbins 2. Dansby 2. Perry 1, Rossum 1. Mclaughlin 1, Tatum 1. Wagasy I. Becton 1. Colorado: Johnson 18 (1 sack), Russel12 (1 sack). 
Phillips 9, Clavelle 8 (3 sacks). Hicks 7 (1 sack). Lemonli 6, Rosga 5. Jones 5 (1 sack), Hudson 3. Anderson 2, Musfeldl 2, Simmons 1. Davis 1, Olson 1, 
Cunningham 1. Suner 1, Henry 1. Nabholz 1. 
CU: Salaam one-yard run (Voskeritchian kick) at 4:07 (6 plays, 38 yards, 1 :45) Key Play: Westbrook 19-yard pass Colorado 31 Notre Dame 3 
NO: Mayes seven-yard pass from Powlus (Cengia kick) at 0:05 (6 plays,65 yards, 1 :30) Key Play: Becton 36-yard pass from Powlus Colorado 31 Notre Dame 10 
THIRD QUARTER NO: Mayes 40-yard pass from Powlus (Cengia kick) at 5:47 (1 plays, 40 yards, 0:08) Colorado 31 Notre Dame 17 
CU: 48-yard FG by Voskeritchian at 1:55 (5 plays, 45 yards, 1 :03) Key Play: Stewart 41-yard run Colorado 34 Notre Dame 17 
FOURTH QUARTER CU: Salaam five-yard run (Voskeritchian kick) at 9:29 (4 plays, 56 yards, 1 :43) Key Play: Kidd 37-yard pass from Stewart Colorado 41 Notre Dame 17 
NO: Wallace seven-yard pass from Powlus (Schroffner kick) at 2:07 (14 plays,91 yards, 7:22) Key Play: Mayes 26-yard pass from Powlus Colorado 41 Notre Dame 24 
Kelly 

continued from page 1 
sic Holtz football, optioning the Irish into obliv­ion. 
"I was scared of the option and they made a lot of plays on that," Holtz said. "That's as line a performance I have ever seen another foot­ball team put on against a team I've coached." 
A team he's coached has rarely been so thor­oughly thrashed. 
Even though the Irish were big underdogs and hardly deserving of the opportunity to trav­el to Tempe, a loss this lopsided seemed unlike­ly. 
Give Holtz time to prepare and he's generally the coach that surprises the opponent. (See 1992 Sugar Bowl). 
Green jerseys and the appearance of sopho­more Scott Sollmann as the kickoff returner were the only significant surprises this year. Neither had much impact on the outcome. 
What mattered most was McCartney's mas­terful mixing of offensive and defensive schemes that bothered Notre Dame from the beginning. 
"They came out and ran two backs in the backfield and three wideouts, which they had never done," an unusually mystified Holtz said. "Defensively, they played 11 games where there were in a 50 defense. Eleven games. Today, they never lined up in a 50 front the whole game." 
Notre Dame never adjusted, limping to its worst finish since Holtz's first season in 1986. 
One year ago, he orchestrated one of the best coaching performances of his career, turning adversity from "The Book" into a near-national championship. 
But this year, Holtz never seemed to have control. Disciplinary disturbances and defeat after defeat turned 1994 into a nightmare sea­son. He vowed to stop the bleeding after the loss at Boston College, promising to "get this goddawg thing turned around." 
Instead, the goddawg thing continued and 
Notre Dame fell a long, long way from last sea­
son's finish. No national championship argu­---.. 
ments this year. 

On this trip to Tempe, only the jerseys were Champions. 
• STATISTICS 
SCORING SUMMARY 
Colorado  10  21  3  7  41  
Noire Dame  3  7  7  7  24  
TEAMSTATS  cu  NO  
Firsldowns  18  22  
Rushes·yards  39-246  45·149  
Passing yards  226  259  
Comp·an·inl  12·21·0  18-35·1  
Relum yards  66  149  
Punts-avg  4-36  5-33  
Third downs  5·11  ID-19  
Possession Time  23:43  36:17  

INDIVIDUAL STATS 
RUSHING-Notre Dame: Beclon 17·81. Mosley 3· 21. Zellars 5·21. Powlus 15-12, Sollmann 1·9, Edwards 2·4. Farmer 2·1. Colorado: Siewert 7·143 1TD. Salaam 27·83 3TD, Troulman 2-20, Detmer 2·2. Henry !-(minus 2). 
6. Miami 10-2-0 1249 3 7. Florida 10-2-0 1153 5 
8. TexasA&M  10-0-1  1117  8  
9. Auburn  9-1-1  1110  9  
10. Utah  10-2-0  955 14  
11. Oregon  9-4-0  810 12  
12.Michigan  8-4-0  732 20  
13. Southern Cal  8-3-1  691 21  
14. Ohio State  9-4-0  672 13  
15. Virginia  9-3-0  648 18  
16. Colorado St.  10-2-0  630 10  
17. North Carolina St.9-3-0  511 23  
18. Brigham Young  10-3-0  500 22  
19.Arizona  9-3-0  496 11  
20. Washington St.  8-4-0  364 15  
21. Tennessee  8-4-0  344 24  
22. Boston College  8-4-0  236  
23. Mississippi St.  7-4-1  160  
24.Texas  8-4-0  90  16  
25.  8-4-0  

• SCORING SUMMARY 
FIRST QUARTER CU: 33-yard FG by Voskeritchian at 11:38 (8 plays, 53 yards, 3:22) Key Play: Westbrook 28-yard pass from Stewart. Colorado 7 Notre Dame 0 
CU: Paul Fauria one-yard pass from Stewart at 5:55 (5 plays, 70 yards, 1 :27) Key Play: Savoy 37-yard pass from Stewary (Voskeritchian kick) Colorado 10 Notre Dame 0 
NO: 29-yard FG by Cengia at 2:01 (9 plays, 84 yards, 3:54) Key Play: Powlus 17-yard run Colorado 10 Notre Dame 3 
SECOND QUARTER CU: Stewart nine-yard run (Voskeritchian kick) at 9:21 (5 plays, 66 yards, 1 :55) Key Play: Stewart 35-yard run Colorado 17 Notre Dame 3 
CU: Salaam one-yard run (Voskeritchian kick) at 4:07 (9 plays, 80 yards, 2:50) Key Play: Kidd 46-yard pass from Stewart Colorado 24 Notre Dame 3 
Wednesday, January 18, 1995 The Observer· SPORTS EXTRA 
I 
~ 
I ­I 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek The Observer/Rob Finch 

Kordell Stewart turns to hand on Colorado's first drive. 
The Irish defense did mange to control Heisman Trophy winning running back Rashaan Salaam . 

• fROM THE lENS 
Sun Devil Stadium January 2, 1995 

The Observer/Rob Finch 

Leon Wallace kneels in the end zone after scoring Notre Dame's final touchdown. 
Ron Powlus tries to elude the grasp of inside linebacker Matt Russell. 


Lee Becton slides past a diving Dalton Simmons while the rest of the Colorado defense takes pursuit. 
ACCENT ­
January I 8, I 995 page I I 
(I (juess %at S Wfiy %ey Ca{{ it tfie 'B{ues: ' 
Coping Witli Cfinica{ tJJepression 
By COLLEEN MORRISSEY 
Accent Writer 
Last year Kara was a Northwestern University junior 
·~ 
full of boundless energy and smiles. From the moment she entnred a room she was smiling and talking. She talked all the lime, and sometimes her room­mate could not tell if she was talking to her or not, or if Kara expected an answer. When Kara wanted to exercise, some­times she ran up and down the stairs of her dorm instead of going to the 1,rym. 
But sometimes her roommate would come in their room and find Kara in tears. Days passed whon Kara was not hungry at all and only nibbled on dry ce­real. She did not get enough slenp because she kept waking up for hours in the middle of the night. Kant knew some­thing was wrong so she con­sulted a campus counsolor and later. a psychiatrist. In the spring of 1994. Kara was diag-• 
no~d u ha~ng Bipolu II 0~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ order. appropriately excited or irri-thousands of miles away from because of the resources avail-One of the two main types of tated; move and talk more than her home in Oregon. able to them, especially free 
clinical depn~ssion, Bipolar Dis-usual; act sexually promiscu-Like other diseases with bio-resources. Also the college order is an illness that causes ous; have disconnected or rae-logical roots, clinical depression environment is an atmosphere altornatfl cycles of depression ing thoughts; act inappropri-runs in families. Members who where people, such as profes­or elation with periods of nor-ately in social contexts; behave have the illness have a different sors and fellow students, nullity in between. Kara ex-impulsively and make poor genetic makeup, which makes encourage others to get help. plained that Bipolar 1 Disorder judgments. them more vulnerable to de-In the real world. people don't 
is also known as manic depres-"I felt kind of normal, but hy-pression than relatives who do usually confront peers about sion, in which mood ranges per. I was highly excitable, al-not get ill. However, not every depression," Bentley-Lesnak from deep depression to manic most agitated, when I was in a person with a biological predis-said. elation. In Kara's disorder, manic stage," Kara said. position for the illness gets de-To cope with depression with­Bipolar 11. mood swings are The two main types of clinical pressed, and not everyone who out treatment, some people milder and mostly spent in the depression are bipolar disorder is clinically depressed has a may ignore their symptoms or depressed phase. family history of depression. abuse alcohol and other drugs, 
According to the National In Kara's family, there is a which only exacerbates the Institute of Mental Health, dur-'The college environ-history of thyroid problems, problem. ing a depressed phase, people ment is an atmos-which may affect the balance of When left untreated, depres­persistently feel sad, anxious, chemicals in the brain. Kara's sion usually lasts nine months irritable, or "empty". They phere where people form of depression, bipolar dis-to a year. However, episodes of might no longer be interested in encourage others to get order. is linked to Attention depression usually return, and aetivities onee enjoyed. Often, help. In the real world, Deficit Disorder, which her sis-are longer and more frequent victims feel hopeless, guilty, or ter has. Kara's first bipolar than the first, until the person worthless, an~ notice they are people don't usually con-episode could have been trig-spends most of her life being not able to concentrate, front [peers] about gered by a combination of bio-severely mentally ill. According remember things, or make logical predisposition and to a study by the National decisions. depression. stress. Institute of Mental Health pub-
When Kara was depressed, According to Bentley-Lesnak, lished in Time Magazine, the she felt hopelessness and de-certain types of personalities initial occurrence of depression spair. Even though she was Carol Bentley-Lesnak are prone to depression. "A acts as a "kindling effect," surrounded by supportive Saint Mary's counselor person with low self-esteem, which means that it seems to friends and family, she felt and a negative view of herself leave a mark in the brain, leav­lonely. A good student, Kara and the world, is more prone to ing 70 percent of sufferers vul­had no energy or motivation to and unipolar disorder, or major depression than someone who nerable to another attack. do her schoolwork. She was depression. The symptoms of thinks highly of herself. Other attacks may then occur tempted to quit school and go major depression are essen-However, this is not true in on their own, without a reason. home, willing to abandon the tially the same as those de-every case of depression," she three months' worth of work scribed in the depressed phase said. she had put into her courses. of manic depression. According Although depression is not 'If it makes me feel bet-
Not limited to emotional to Carol Bentley-Lesnak, a limited to any particular race or 
ter and gets the 
symptoms, depression also af-counselor with the Saint Mary's income level, the National 
chemicals back to nor­
fects people .Physically. The Career and Counseling Institute of Mental Health has 
U.S. Department of Health and Department, unipolar depres-revealed that, out of 12 million mal levels, then I don't Human Services reports that sion is probably the most com-Americans who suffer from 
care how long I have to
victims may experience mon form of depression treated depression each year, the 
changes in weight or appetite, on campus. majority are women. 25 per­take it." 
and be fatigued or notice en-Clinical depression is not a cent of women, compared to 
Kara 

eq.,ry loss. They might feel rest-sign of a person's weakness or only 10 percent of men, will 
less and have a reduced activity laziness. Rather, it is caused by e.xperience one or more 
Editor's Note: Kara

level, along with having insom-various interactions between episodes of depression in their 
requested that her last 
nia, early-morning awakening, brain chemicals and hormones, lives. However, these numbers 
name not be used in this
or oversleeping. However, which monitor a person's feel-only indicate the people who 
story.

some people have atypical ings, sleeping and eating habits, have sought treatment. Women depressions in which they gain and energy level. may be mor elikely than men to weight and sleep more often Clinical depression usually admit their symptoms and view than usual. Extreme signs of affects people around ages 24 depression as an illness, not a In seven out of ten cases, de­depression are thoughts of sui-to 44. When Kara experienced personal weakness. pression can be treated effec­cide or death. her first episode of depression, College students are among tively with therapy, medication, 
According to the U.S. she was a junior liberal arts the numbers of patients who or a combination of the two, in Department of Health and major and a Biology and are likely to seek and get treat­the first round of treatment. Human Services, during a Chemistry minor, planning to ment for clinical depression. "I For Kara, the first medication manic phase, a person may attend medical school after think college students probably she tried seemed to help her for have increased energy and de-graduation. She managed 20 would seek help for depression about two weeks, then did creased need for sleep; qe in-credit hours at Northwestern, more than 'the general public nothing to help at all. If a sec­ond round of treatment is need­ed, the success rate rises to 90 percent. In Kara's second round, she noticed a change in her mood within three weeks and has continued to feel bet­ter. 


Therapy addresses issues such as negative thinking, pr.ob­lems in relationships, and man­agement of stressful situations to prevent a recurrence of a depressive episode. For stu­dents suffering from depres­sion, Saint Mary's College has counselors available for ther­apy. Saint Mary's does not charge for these services, and there is no limit to the amount of therapy sessions a student can take part in. The college also employs a local psychia­trist, Dr. Rickey Wilson, to con­sult patients and prescribe medication. 
Through therapy, Kara's psy­chiatrist in Oregon diagnosed her as Bipolar II and prescribed three medications to control it. Kara might have to remain on the medicine for the rest of her life, but that does not bother her. 
"If it makes me feel better and gets the chemicals back to normal levels, then I don't care how long I have to take it." Kara said. 
Because depression affects every aspect of life, it is impor­tant for depressed people to have support from their close friends and family to help cope with the disease. Depressed people need encouragement to seek help and continue taking medicine and seeing the doctor. Emotional support, encourage­ment, and understanding is essential to help the victim through the depression. 
Fortunately, Kara has a sup­portive, understanding group of friends to turn when she needs help. Her mother spent two weeks in Evanston, Illinois as a constant source of support while Kara went through the last busy weeks of the quarter. 
Kara feels like herself again: happy at the right moments, sad for a reason, doing well in school. Depression is control­lable with the proper help. 
I 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, January 18, 1995 I 

Moten, no. 6 Syracuse slip by St. John's, 91-87 
By WILLIAM KATES fourth straight, pulled within gave Syracuse its biggest lead, jumper with 3:14 remaining to 18-3 spurt four minutes into the Associared Press 85-82 on a three-point play by 51-32, two minutes into the make it 78-74. game, quickly turning a 9-7 Charles Minlend with 32 sec­second half. Michael Lloyd hit a 17 -footer lead into a 27-10 cushion with 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. onds to play. and Moten sank a 16-foot 10:59 to play. 
Lawrence Moten scored 11 of Syracuse (13-1, 6-0) made But Lopez led a St. John's jumper to give Syracuse some his 21 points in the final 9:35 as eight consecutive foul shots charge by scoring seven breathing room, 82-74, with The Red Storm regroupedNo. 6 Syracuse held off St. over the final 39 seconds to stay straight points in a 10-0 run 1:58 to play. Lloyd finished with and Brown hit a 3-pointer from John's 91-87 Tuesday night to even with second-ranked that cut the lead to nine. After 13 points, making half of the top of the key with 2:59 to tie Connecticut for the longest Connecticut atop the Big East Jackson and Otis Hill hit short Syracuse's last eight free play to cap a 9-2 run that winning streak in Division I at standings. Syracuse visits baskets for Syracuse, Lopez and throws. shaved Syracuse's lead to 37­13 games. Connecticut on Monday night. Tarik Turner made consecutive Lopez, who was 3-for-11 from 28. Syracuse scored the last six 
St. John's (8-5, 2-4 Big East) 3-pointers to make it 55-48 the field in the first half, fin­points of the half to stretch the trailed by 19 points early in the John Wallace led Syracuse with 13:50 to play. ished 12-for-24, including 4-lead to 45-30. second half but rallied behind with 24 points, while Lucious St. John's closed within six for-8 from 3-point range, to Syracuse's 13 consecutive freshman Felipe Lopez, who Jackson matched his season­points three times over the next surpass his previous high of 27 wins is its longest streak since had 29 of his career-high 35 high with 18. nine minutes. Syracuse points versus Coppin State. the 1988-89 season. The points in the second half. A three-point play by Wallace answered each time until Syracuse, which shot 59 per­Orangemen have not started 6­
The Red Storm, who lost their and a 3-pointer by Jackson Maur.ice Brown hit a 19-foot cent in the first ha}f. ran off an 0 in the Big East since 1986-87. 
Michigan's seniors lead in surprise road win over no. 20 Illinois, 69-59 
ByRICKGANO Illinois (13-4, 4-1) had the second half. But Keene kept Associared Press jumped back into the Top 25 the Illini close with two long 3­after four straight conference pointers, cutting the Michigan
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. 
wins. lead to four with 10 minutes 
Ray Jackson scored 16 points Jimmy King added 14 points left. and Michigan applied some for the Wolverines. Two free throws each by tough defense to No. 20 Illinois, Kiwane Garris and Richard Jerry Hester and Garris cut it to beating the Illini 69-59 Tuesday Keene scored 19 points each one with 7:31 remaining. But 
night and ending their five­for Illinois, which has dropped Maurice Taylor's jumper, a game winning streak. seven straight to Michigan. The slam follow by fellow freshman Michigan (10-6, 4-1 Big Ten) Illini shot 34 percent from the Maceo Baston, King's three­
established its first three-game field under the defensive pres­point play and a driving basket winning streak of the season sure, making 1"7 of 50 shots. by Jackson put the Wolverines and tied Illinois for first place They also missed 12 of 30 free up 10 with 2:49left. in the conference. throws. Jackson's driving lay-in just 
The Wolverines, with con­Dugan Fife, averaging just 2.2 before the buzzer gave the secutive road victories for the points and shooting 21 percent Wolverines a 26-25 halftime first time this season, also de­from 3-point rangs, hit three lead. Michigan led 11-3. hold­nied coach Lou Henson his straight 3-pointers as the ing Illinois to one basket in the 400th victory at Illinois. Wolverine went up nine early in first eight minutes. 
Lackadaisical Lenard receives 
wake-up call from Coach Haskins 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS 
Voshon Lenard almost cer­tainly will become ~innesota's all-time leading scorer this sea­son. Unless his shooting im­proves, he might have to do it from the bench. 
Although it could have been simply a motivational ploy, coach Clem Haskins said Tuesday he is considering de­moting Lenard if the Golden Gophers' star continues his er­ratic play. 
After making seven 3-point­ers in a win over Northwestern last week, Lenard followed with a 1-of-12 performance from long range in Saturday's loss at Wisconsin. 
"It could happen any time," Haskins said of the lineup change. "Just to give him a dif­ferent look, a different perspec­tive." 
Haskins said freshman Eric Harris might move into the starting point guard position, with Townsend Orr moving to Lenard's spot at shooting guard. Lenard was not avail­able for comment. 
The warning probably was meant only to motivate Lenard, who took advantage of a new NCAA rule to return for his se­rrlor season after being drafted by the Milwaukee Bucks last summer. 
He made just 10 percent of his 3-pointers in one four-game stretch during December, but he also made six 3-pointers in another game before setting the school record with seven against Northwestern. 
Overall, Lenard is shooting 
40.1 percent and 34.6 percent from 3-point range. He is aver­aging 18.1 points and needs just 137 more to break Mychal Thompson's scoring record. 
Thompson scored 1,992 points from 1974-78. On his current pace, Lenard would break the record Feb. 18 at home against Michigan State. 

Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business.day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. ar rhe Norre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. ar 309 Haggar College Cenrer. 
Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds musr be prepaid. The charge is 2 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. . 
Classifieds 
Healthcare  SKI RESORT JOBS·Hiring for  Spring Break! Panama City! 8 Days  Apts. in student occupied 3-flat,  I need 2 tix to XAVIER  
NOTICES  Registered Dietician  many positions (including summer). Up to $2,000+ in salary & benefits  Oceanview Room with a Kitchen $1291 Walk to best bars! Includes  heat included. *Large 1 bedrm·$300  CALL 273-6212  
WELCOME BACK!II  Unicare Health Facilities, a leader in long term care has an  (Free ski pass, ski equipment, meal discounts). Ski/Snowboard instruc·  Free Discount Card which will save you $100 on food/drinks! 1-800­ *Small, furnished 1 bedrm·$260 755 South Bend Ave.-1 blk west of  PERSONAL  
excellent career opportunity avail- tors, lift operators, wait staff, chalet  678-6386  NO Ave. deposit, 1·800-582-9320  
WANTED  able for an individual to direct the activities of the Dining Services Department in the St. Joseph  staff,+ other positions. For more information call:(206)634-0469 ext.V55842  ORGANIST OR PIANIST(S) need·  FOR SALE  WELCOME BACKI HAPPY BIRTHDAY,  
Barefoot Bahamas Spring Break  County area. The qualified  ed by Mar. 1. Resume to: Director  PATRICK CARROLL  
Sailing Cruise! Free brochure  candidate will have registration  of liturgy & Music, St. Anthony  Macintosh POWERBOOK Duo 230  GO CHARGERS!!!  
1 (800)359-9808  with the American Dietetic  CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING- Parish 2114 E. Jefferson Blvd.  4/80 with floppy drive $1100  
Association. This position offers  Earn up to $2,000+/month working  South Bend, IN 46617 219-282­ call273-9213  DEADHEADS:  
Am looking for OC housing. Got a room? Call Emily @ 233-4345 Florida's Spring Break Hotspots!  you the opportunity to exercise your clinical, administrative, and training skills. We offer competitive salary and benefits, opportunity for career growth, and  on Cruise Ships or Land· Tour com­panies. World travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.). Seasonal and full-time employment. available. No experience neces­ 2308, FAX 219-288-8877 FOR RENT  TICKETSII I NEED A TICKET TO THE KEN- Rosemont 94 tapes are in. all 3 shows. Spring tour MO info as well. Call 1513 ask for Dominator I don't understand how e·mail disks  
PANAMA CITY OCEANVIEW  continuing education. To take  sary. For more informetion call 1­ Room available for rent. 15 mins  TUCKY GAME COMING UP.  can just mangle themselves.  
ROOM WITH KITCHEN $1291  advantage of this exciting opportu­ 206-634..Q468 ext. C55842  walk from campus, safe neighbor- PLEASE CALL TARA AT 4-4565  
WALK TO BEST BARSI Cocoa  nity please forward your resume  hood and a neat and well kept  Morgs,  
Beach (Near Disney)-27 acre  including salary history to: Larry  home. $225 a month, includes use  NEED 2 SEPARATE PAIRS OF  It's good to be back. Time to meke  
Deluxe Beachfront Resort 7 Nights  Lakes,  Spring Break! Bahames Party  of all utilities. Serious students pre- KENTUCKY BASKETBALL GA'S.  more good memories. How senti­ 
$1591 Key West $2291 Daytona  Cruise 6 Days $279! Includes 12  ferred. Call Paul at (219)-232-2794.  Will PAY$$$. PLEASE CALL  mental.  
-­ Room with Kitchen From $12911­800-678-6386  Administrator Ironwood Healtl11 & Rehabilitation Center  Meals & 6 Free Parties! Great Beaches & Nightlife! A HUGE  WADE AT X3883.  Alex,  
1950 Ridgedale Road  Partyl Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights  HOMES FOR RENT  NEED 2 TIX FOR THE KENTUCKY  Baa,baa,baa.baa,baa,baa,baa,baa.  
WANTED: 2400 baud external  South Bend, Indiana 46614.  Air & Hotel From $4291 Spring  NEAR CAMPUS  BASKETBALL GAME ON FEB. 12.  baa, baa, baaaaaa.  
modem. Call Mike @ 4-1840  EOE  Break Travel1-600-678-6386  232-2595  CALL ERIN AT 14015  -The Sheep  

----~~-~ --~ --~~-~ --~·----~-------­
Wednesday, January 18, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
•NFL 
Niners strike gold with flaunting Floyd in backfield 
By ROB GLOSTER runner," Young said. "To me, zone celebrations following 103 yards and two touchdowns the playoffs, he tried to get Associa1ed Press he's the consummate fullback. those touchdowns, but Seifert against Tampa Bay in October, tackle Steve Wallace to spike When we lost Tom Rathman, and the rest of the 49ers even­Floyd tackled him in the end the ball. The noble Wallace re­SANTA CLARA, Calif. we got a rookie who doesn't tually have fed off those out­zone to celebrate the second fused, placing the ball on the 
While Deion Sanders is the 
play like a rookie." bursts. score. Watters said it was the ground. Floyd picked it up, dance leader of the San Marc Logan took over as the "I couldn't change myself, hardest hit he took all day. handed it to Wallace again and Francisco 49ers defense, full­49ers' starting fullback when and I told coach Seifert that," When Floyd scored his third slammed the lineman's hands back William Floyd provides the Rathman went to the Los Floyd said. "He really respects touchdown against Chicago in -and the ball -to the turf. swagger on offense. Angeles Raiders before the sea­me for that, for being myself. 
Floyd is a rookie who signs son, but lasted only five games The Detroit week, everybody autographs "Bar None," a nick­
in that role. Floyd got his first was over my back about me name he adopted after his start at Detroit, where he celebrating and all different agent declared during negotia­helped rally San Francisco from things. Then as soon as Deion tions that he would be the best a 14-0 deficit, and has been the and the rest of the guys got into 
fullback in football "bar none." starter since. the act, there was nothing else 
And Floyd, like Sanders a Floyd scored a pair of touch­said about it. I like that." 1>111\'IE \'OlJIISIE'LF S. $4\'IEI Florida State product, is living downs in that Detroit game, Floyd's chest-beating end COMPUTE fiVE & SEVIN NICHT TI\IPS up to the hype. l]·lli1: I J·1·iiJ j 0!·1~1·1
which the 49ers won 27-21 to zone celebrations include 
I ).1,tf.f,J,p.y;u j'l :J;I·t3: I

lie has scored four touch­start a 10-game winning streak, spikes so violent that referees 
I ·f·S'• l·l~f·j :I:P·\3! I

downs in the playoffs, and his and provided a spark for a run for cover when he prepares 
it(i'lhilijl

blocking has been one of the team doubting itself after a 40-to slam the ball to the turf. reasons quarterback Steve 8 loss the previous week to They also have provided rivet­Young has been sacked only Philadelphia. ing theatrics from a once stolid once in two postseason games. 
He was criticized by coach team. "lie can block an end, he's a George Seifert for excessive end When Ricky Watters ran for good receiver and he's a power 
nthony 
.....vel 
LaFortune Student Center 
631-7080
$31.9­
~ Cancun ,_ 
Make plans now for Spring Break in 
~ $35.9 
Cancun or Jamaica
We Make Spring Break Easy! 
CAlL OUR RISERVATIONS ON'ft::R. AT 1~2-TRAVFJ.... 
All ro~Cr"ftdoat uc coaam.cd la.omtlr br tdcpboae md .all..hJ:udJ arc ll"A"'ccd In •drlnf U'you bne KC~to a IU.machiDc,we 
can cnen lllu: rou • nhu:o cc.&mllloo u IOCG • ~ 
ro.:nadoQ ltcoasplet.l You cka'l ~ bcYe ID .cDd UIJ"'ut"~ 
df:JioOOif.t undJ cYCf7'hlol II c~ aDd Mnllo rou t.
""*'•· And you c. ~ne up tD UO per penoo lr rou roenc 
bciare Oec:r:mbcr 17, liXH. C.U IDdlrl 
FREE TRIPI U111121•nnr•· 
OryanbJo o group oilS IBD1/0 • iiUU8ft. pe<l!lloondj<>MiripbA!££1 ITUDENT TRAVEb 
'ittw!""j,i mi.Ar!ml 
FOR RESERVATIONSAND INFORMATION, CALL USAT 
1-800-95-BREAK 

Stop by our office as soon as possible for details. 

:~
9 5 '•' 


"With only ene Wttk te lillt...Don't hlow it." Save $30 Sign up before Jan. lst,1995! 
--~~ 

Jamaica...........from $43 9 Cancun............from $399 South Padre.....from $18 9 Florida ............ .from $ 9 9 
FROM$4~ 
8 Days/7 Nights Air, Hotel & More From Chicago 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL: CLAUDIA AT 284-4326 COREY OR JIM AT BIANCHI-ROSSI TOURS 
110551 
1-800-875-4525 
TOURS 
PAflTI'E.:. E.t"tfll' HI'G.. T!! AT THE BEST HIG+ff 'LU&'S IN THE WORLD.' FROM 1030PM-3'00AM-SPECIAL 8EYERAC1E DEALS OFFERED All NIG+ff 
SpriniJ Break 195
0
7ni9hts 
_,

Bahamas (air & hotel) .... . from $409 Cancun (air & hotel) ..... . from $499 Daytona Beach (hotel only) from .$109 Panama City (hotel only) from $109 
Prices are per person and based on quad occupancy. Must be booked by December 17, 1994 
VIP treatment, club admissions, contests, exclusive parties and more special benefits than any other spring break trip. 
For more detailed information call the travel experts at: 
219-258-0877 
620 West Edison Road, St. Andrew's Plaza 

-
Mishawaka 
page 14 
The Observer • SPORTS 
•Nfl 
San Diego's Means provides the thunder for the Bolts 
By BARRY WILNER 
Associa{ed Press 
SAN DIEGO 
Anyone who thinks Natrone Means is in his element when he's stampeding over tacklers should have seen him after the San Diego Chargers won the AFC championship. 
Of course, when you're a 245­pound clap of thunder with a lightning bolt on your uniform, you can be the life of the party anytime you want. 
As the celebrants around him in the visiting locker room at Three Rivers Stadium danced, screamed, even rapped a little as they mockingly waved Terrible Towels, the 22-year­old Means summoned up all of his accumulated wisdom, took a long puff on a huge cigar and asked, "We're pretty good. Where are we going?" 
Had his teammates heard him, they would have re­sponded as a chorus, "To the Super Bowl." But none of Means' buddies were close enough to know what he said. 
They all know what the "Natrone Bomb" has done for the Chargers this season. He detonated at just the right time, finishing second in the AFC with 1,350 yards rushing, scored 12 touchdowns and made the Pro Bowl in only his second NFL season. 
In the playoffs, he led the Chargers back from a 21-6 halftime deficit to a 22-21 win over Miami. Then he helped wear down Pittsburgh's staunch defense, several times laying flat defenders who strayed into his path. 
Means is as self-assured as a grizzled veteran. Not necessar­ily cocky or boastful, but cer­tainly aware of his importance to the Chargers and his ability to live up to the organization's demands. 
"Once they made the Butts trade, I knew I was going to be the man," said Means of Chargers general manager Bobby Beathard's decision to deal top running back Marion Butts on draft day to New England. All Butts had done was lead the team in rushing five straight years as the focal point of a power attack. 
"After the draft, coach Ross came to my house in North Carolina -I think it showed a little something that he stopped there -and he was talking to me and my mom. He said I'd have the opportunity, that my role would pick up in the of­fense and I would have the op­portunity to start. 
"I knew the chance was there, but he didn't hand me the starting job. I think it kind of boosted my confidence, though, and it showed he would give me the chance to be the back. 
"The training was rough, but I knew what it was all for. I could sacrifice for a couple of months to get everything right. It was worth it." 
As was making room for Means, a seco111d-round pick from North Carolina. Neither Beathard nor coach Bobby Ross worried about Means taking over. 
"He's a big strong guy who has breakaway speed and is not afraid to take a hit, because he knows he's usually going to come out of it OK," Ross said. "He's also a pretty good re­ceiver and a smart football player and a pretty good block­er." 
And a terrific talker. Means means what he says, and isn't afraid to stir up controversy or give frank answers to tough questions. 
Such as on the matter of re­spect: 
"It's time to start giving our­selves some credit, because the way it's been going, nobody else is going to give us credit until we start. It's time we start pumping ourselves up a bit." 
Or on his quick NFL success: 
"I think other people are more surprised by it. I'm not. I felt if I could get the ball 20-25 times, I could put up some numbers. I feel like in order for us to be a success, the running game has to be successful, and that means me." 
Or on taking off his helmet to celebrate a 20-yard TD run, his longest of the year, in the regu­lar-season finale against Pittsburgh: 
"I wanted to show everyone my face. I wanted to show them the man behind the mask." 
Means might not be a Jim Carrey, but he's certainly head­ed for stardom, which should please his mother, Gwendolyn Stevenson, who banned her son from football when he was in junior high school. 
"He had to learn what was important," she said. "I had to slow him down a little bit. 
"After that, I didn't have any problems." 

The Observer 
is now hiring 
Circulation Drivers 
This is a paid position which requires drivers to deliver papers between 11-2. Ifyou are interested in doing this any weekday please call Joe Riley at 631-5313 
The Hammes 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
"on the campus" Special School Rush Hours Tues., Thurs. ,Fri. 9am -6pm 
3M

Wednesday Bam -6pm 
INNOVATION 



Post-it Memo Cubes $2.49 

Wednesday, January 18, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS 
SCUBA COURSE The in·
M 

formation meeting for this course will be Sunday, January 22. 3:30 PM in Rockne Rm 218. There will be seven classroom and pool ses• sions beginning January 29. Completion of course results in YMCA Lifetime Certification. For more info call RecSports at i!!~t 1~100. ­
SHORIN·RYU KARATE ~ ' Students are instructed ac• cording to traditional Okinawan techniques, ·· Semester-long course that meets in Rockne 219 M/W 4:30-6:00 starting Wednesday, February 1. You must register level. in advance at RecSports and that meets the fee is $15.00. A demon• 6:30·7:30 PM stration will be held on from 10:00 Monday, January 30 at 5:00 in Rockne R.q1. 301. • Rockne Rm 219. Call $35,.00 and you RecSports at 1-6100 for more in advance at info. demonstration 
TAE KWON DO • Students Sunday, January are instructed in accordance PM in Rockne 
Be Lit ary ... 
Literary Festival. 11-16 *** 
nightly readings by co porary writers 
8:00 Hesburgh uditorium 
st gunned down yner (Feb. 11) 
r.------------:1
•ves! .,
I want to · subscribe to the Chicago Tribune! 
Mail coupon to: Chicago Tribune, 2000 York Road, Suite 124 Oak Brook, IL 60521-0001 
Deliver: Spring Term 16 weeks 
Seven-day _$30.40 ($1.90/week) Mon.-Sat. _$19.20 ($1.20/week) Sun. only _$24.00 ($1.50/week) No discount

The Original 
Payment by:

Information Superhighway. 
:..J MasterCard Q Check ::.. American Express o VISA .J Discover Card

Subscribe and enjoy the convenience of having the Chicago Tribune delivered to your residence every day! 
Account No _______ 

Since 1847, the Chicago Tribune has been the original 
Exp Date,________ 

information superhighway, providing its readers random 
Signature,________

access to everything: 
• Comprehensive coverage of national and international Please print news. 
Name_________ 

• Colorful coverage of college and pro sports with more 
School________

stats, more scores and the best columnists. 
• Popular features on the latest in music, movies, Year in school _______ art and trends. 
Address________

• Expert business and financial reporting for successful career planning. 
Dorm/Apt________ 

• Insights from award-winning columnists: Mike Royko, 
City·_________ 

Ann Landers, Dear Abby and Bob Greene. 
State,_____Zip___

• Amusing comic adventures of Calvin and Hobbes, Ooonesbury and Cathy! Phone(__)______ 
In areas not serviced by horne delivery, mail Sllbsaiptioos

To order please complete this coupon or for faster service call 
will be offered at the current mail subscription rate. This oHer expires Man:h 31, 1995. 011er not valid with any 
other Chicago Tr'llune discount.

1-800-TRIBUNE (1-800-874-2863). Ask for operator 34. 
page 15 

on For rates and more J¢"(l:g:Datic:rn call the Golf Shop . RecSports at 1· 
L ~ Co-Ree be offered by Deadline is with a manda­~-~··.......~~· meeting at 5:30 auditorium the 1·6100 for 
1\ACKET RecSt>or·ts is looking jntter~~stt:ld players. lf you trouble finding 1-'""'' .. 5 partners get involved . players board. Call 1· 
..,.~,,•.,,.,..,,..,.L~-~ for d(}tails. NDMAl " Advanced practice {including yellow belts): Friday, Jan. 20 6·8 pm at the and Saturday, Jan. 21 pm at the Rock. If you 
__ <~••" ~-~··• ,..· any questions, call Jamie 1186. 
Life is like a semester of service: You never know what you'll get. 


Sign up for service this semester. 
Come to the Social Concerns Festival: 
Thursday, January 19, 1995 Center for Social Concerns ?-9:30p.m. (Over 35 service and social action 
organizations will be represented') 
WANTED: 
20 Paid Student Callers 
Students looking for a part-time job that will give them real life experience in an enjoyable work environment, calling alumni on behalf of the 
,_

Notre Dame Annual Fund. 
REWARD: 
Training, evening hours, $5. 70/hour. 
Fit the description? (No experience necessary.) Stop by our informal information session/ open house on January 18 between 4pm and 6pm at the Development Phone Center (southeast comer of Badin Hall). 
Questions? Call .1. Kent Goffinet (631-7938) A or Katy Hart ( 631-7241). p.j§il~ 
iD~e­

~----------------------~----------------------------~~~~--------------------------------------~-------~-----------------------------,. 
I ~ 
Wednesday, January 18, 1995 

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS 

Peters and Coates close careers 
By BETSY BAKER 
Sports Writer 
Although the season has ended and the Notre Dame vol­leyball team is now looking for­ward to next year, when the team takes the court for its first game of the 1995 season, there will definitely be something missing. Actually, that some­

thing is someone, or to be ex­act, some two. 
As the 1994 season ended with a loss to Penn State, so did the careers of two of Notre Dame's most talented and exciting players in its volleyball history, co-captains Christy Peters and Nicole Coates. 
Christy Peters is one of, if not the best player to pass through the history of the Notre Dame volleyball program. 
She is the only player in Irish history to have over 1,500 kills and 1,500 digs. She holds the career record with 1683 kills in 4469 total attempts, and1640 digs. She was named MVP at all four regular-season tourna­ments the Irish participated in this season. She has been se­lected to ten of eleven all-tour­nament teams and has been named MVP seven times in her career. 
Despite missing eight match­es this season because of both illness and injury, she still fin­ished second on the team in kills, digs, and lead the team in total attempts. She led the Irish in kills seventeen times 
Only $1,770. Or about $33. amonth. 1 

636 81250 with CD-ROM, A/J/Jle' Color Plus 14. 
Disploy, AppleDesign-Keyb"oard and mouse. 
Only $4, 700. Or about $87. amonth. 1 

Power Macintosh" 

8100180 81500, Apple' Multiple Scan 17 Display, AppleDesigrt Keyboard andmouse. 
The Observer/Rob Finch 
Seniors Christy Peters {13} and Nicole Coates left on strong mark on Notre Dame volleyball, both on the court and in the record books. 
and in digs eleven times this Her consistency in serving season. ranks sixth in the career ser­
Nicole Coates' versatility has vice aces with 90 aces. She set earned the 5-7 outside hitter a four career highs during the place in the Irish record books. 1994 season. 
Hockey 
continued from page 20 
Steve Duke and skated past another WMU defender before crushing the puck past helpless WMU goalie Brian Renfrew. 
Just when the Irish faithful had settled down following Lorenz's goal, Notre Dame tightened the game at 3-2 on senior right wing Brett Bruininks' sixth goal of the sea­son. At the 4:50 mark of the second period, sophomore de­fenseman Brian Welch stole t_he puck from Bronco right wing Brian Gallentine and im­mediately found Lorenz open in the left hand corner of the ice. Lorenz in turn set up Bruininks for the easy score. 
With the defenses playing 
outstanding, the game stood at 
3-2 for most of the third period. 
With 5:03 remaining, the Irish, 
playing like a team possessed, 
knotted the contest at three on 
Tim Harberts' fourth goal of 
the year. 
Just when the game seem destined for overtime, WMU's Whitton delivered the knockout punch and ruined Notre Dame's attempt at a comeback victory. 
After winning three of their last five games over the holi­days, the Irish had hopes of carrying their momentum into the second half of the season. However, after last night's loss and with games this weekend against second place Michigan and third place Michigan State, their work is certainly cut out for them. 
Recycle The Observer 
Happy Belated 2 7st 
Love, 
Mom, Dad, & the Boy 
(see you at JPW!) 

Beforeyoumakeasingle payment, you'll have read azillion pages for 4different classes, anotherSuper Bowlwill have 
· passedwith co ercials better · than the game andyou'll be making yourquarterlyvisitto the Laundromat. 
BUY AN APPLE MACINTOSH NOW. PAY FOR IT LATER." 
We're not just making it easier for you to buy aMacintosh~ we're making it easier for you to buy something else you really need-time. Because for alimited time, with the Apple Computer Loan and 90-Day Deferred Payment Plan, you can own a Macintosh personal computer, printer, CD-ROM drive or other periph­erals without making asingle payment for 90 days: Combine thatwith no hassles, no complicated forms and already great student pricing, and the easy-to-use Macintosh is now incredibly easy to buy. The Apple Computer Loan and 90-Day Deferred Payment Plan. The solution that gives you the 1
Ap ­

power every student needs. The power to be your best~ p1e.. 
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB •631-7477 M-F9am-Spm 
"Deferred Apple Computer l!Jan offer expires February Il, I995. No payment ofinterest or prindpal wfll be requiredfor 90 days. (Some resellers may require adeposit /o hold merchandise while loan is being approved) Interest 
accruing dun·ng this 90-day period will be added to principa4 and the prindpal amount, as so increased, will/hereafter bear interest which will be included in the repayment schedule. 'Monthly payment is an estimate based on /be following information: For the Power Madnlosh 8IOO system shown here, apurchaseprice of$4,935, which includes 5% sales tax; including loan fees, the Iota/loan amount is $5,222.22, which results in a monthlypayment obligation of$81 For the Performa 636 CD system shown here, apurchaseprice of$I,85850, which includes 5% sales tax; including loanfees, the to/a/loan amount is $1,966.67, which results in a monthlypayment obligation of133. Computer system prices, loan amounts andsales taxes may vary. See your authorizedApple Campus Reseller or representativefor current system prices, loan andtax amounts. l!Jans arefor a minimum oj$I,OOO /o a maximum of$IO,OOO. Jbu 
may take out more than one loan, but the total ofaU loans cannot exceed $10,000 annually. A55% loan origination fee will be added to the requested loan amount. The interest rate is variable, based on the rommerdalpaper rate plus 535%. For the month ofNovember, I994, the interest rate was I0.85% with an Annual Percentage Rate ofI2.IO%. 8-year loan term with no prepaymentpenally. The monthly payment andthe Annual Percentage Rate shown 
assume the 90-day deferment ofprindpal and interest described above and no other deferment ofprincipal or interest. Students may defer prindpalpayments up to 4years, or until graduation. Deferment will changeyour monthly payments. The Apple Computer Loan is subject to credit approval. Apple Computer l!Jan and 90-Day Deferred Payment Plan offers available only to qualifying students, faculty and staff. Offers available onlyfrom Apple or an 
aulhorizedApple Campus Resel/er or representaJive. ©I994Apple Computer, Inc. Ali rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, Macintosh, Peiforma and ''Thepower to be your bes/" are registered trademarks ofApple Computer, Inc. App/eDeslgn andPower Macintosh are trademarks ofApple Computer, Inc. 
-------,---·---...------------­
Wednesday, January 18, 1995 
The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• VOLLEYBALL 

Irish setter Shannon Tuttle, a junior, will have one more year to get past Notre Dame's NCAA nemesis, the Nittany Lions. 
SOUTH BEND BECKER FIRST CLASS DATES: CPA ~~wo~w Evenings: 8:15 to 12:15 (M) 6:00 to 10:00 PM & 1:oo-5:00 IAl ADMINISTRATIVESUBJECT MON TUES WED THUR SATURDAY TELEPHONE: Financial Reoortina 1-+ 1-16 or-+ 2-4 MominQ (219) 287-8878 Rnancial Reoortina 2 1-18 2-4 Afternoon Audij1 1-21 MominQ Law! 1-21 Afternoon Acrounting &Reporting 1 2-13 CLASSROOM LOCATION: St. Mary's College Science Hall Lower Level Notre Dame, IN 46556. (Enter at Douglas Rd. west off U.S. 33, just south of Toll Road.) ADDITIONAL INFORMATION: (1) You need only bring YOURSELF to the first class; we supply the paper and pencils. (2) IF YOU MISS A CLASS, YOU CAN MAKE IT UP AT ANY ARRANGED TIME ON TAPE. (3) 11 you sat for the last CPA exam and later learned that you passed, you will only be charged 1Oo/o of the tuition cost. (4) You are cordially invited to bring a friend with you to the first class. rNe have learned that our best results come from students who study in teams.) y attending the first class without obligation, you will see for yourself why the •passing percentage•Bof our students is two to three times better than the state average, why our students consistently win National and State Honors, and why many of our students commute 60 -100 miles to attend our classes. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES: 418 W. Jefferson Blvd. Newton D. Becker, BS, MBA, PhD, CPA South Bend, IN 46601 National Director  

Whereas du Lac states: "The University of Notre Dame affirms its commitment to maintaining a learning and working envi­ronment which is fair, respectful and free from sexual harassment." (p. 78, 1.); and 
Whereas included in the description of sexual harassment is conduct that "has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with an individual's performance or creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive University environment" (p. 78, II); and 
Whereas the Faculty Handbook states that harassment includes "any hostile, intentional, and persistent badgering, addressed directly at another, or small group of others, that is intended to intimi­date its victim(s) from any University activity, or any verbal attack, intended to provoke the victim(s) to immediate physical retaliation." 
(p. 75, II); and 
Whereas the recent revelations concerning highly charged anti-woman remarks (The Observer, October 13, 1994) have con­tributed to an environment that is hostile toward women; and 
Whereas graffiti carved into the carrels in the Hesburgh Library also indicate the same hostile environment toward women; and 
Whereas women students have judged a perceived lack of response as an indication that the issue is not taken seriously at the University; Be it therefore 
Resolved, that the Faculty Senate publish the following state­ment and request every faculty member to read it to their classes on the first day of the spring semester 1995, or to distribute copies of it, or both. (This statement does not include the establishment of any new policy but is a reminder of already established University policy.) 
\' 
Notre Dame's dreams are 
dashed by Penn State, 3-0 
By BETSY BAKER Sports Writer 
Revenge was sought, but not granted. For the third con­secutive year, the Notre Dame volleyball team was eliminated from the NCAA championship by the Penn State Lady Lions. 
Although, the 15-4, 15-6, 15­2 three-game sweep of the Irish by Penn State was not in­dicative of the team's ability or potential, the season-ending loss was a disappointing one for the team. 
"It's an unfortunate way to end the season," said Irish head coach Debbie Brown. "We had a great season, but we didn't show what we were capable of doing." 

It was apparent after only the first few points of game one that Penn State was going to have the upper hand in the match. Although the Irish have had many matches in which they were slow off the start, Penn State's mental and physi­cal strength quickly took over the match. The Irish stayed in the match, working for many side-outs, but could not convert them into points. 
The Lady Lions' strength was in their defensive performance at the net. Out of the four teams in the Mideast Regional ­Colorado, Nebraska, Penn State, and Notre Dame -the Irish were clearly the smallest team. Penn State monopolized the Irish height, or lack there of, and stopped the Irish team's strongest weapon, its outside attack. 
The 15-4 loss in game one set the tone for the match. Penn State forced the Irish to commit many hitting errors, and limit­ed them to a .000 hitting per­centage. Both teams had only ten kills in the first game, but the difference came ·as the Irish matched each one of their kills with an error, committing ten hitting errors in the first game. 
"We committed many hitting errors and we didn't perform the fundamentals of the game," said Brown 
In game two, the Irish didn't even have a chance to commit errors as nearly every kill attempt they made was blocked by the Lady Lions' front line. Penn State had 27 kills in the second game and committed only one error, compared to 16 kills, in 61 attempts, and 8 errors for the Irish. Penn State was not only a strong team, but also a smart team, as they drew Irish defenders into the middle of the court and then perfectly place a hit for a kill down the side or back line. 
Game three was no different as the frustration and futility of the Irish effort began to show, and Penn State went on to com­plete the game and the match 
Statement Regarding Discriminatory and Sexual Harassment 
The Faculty Senate, desiring to create an atmosphere in which all stu­dents are able to learn and develop to the best of their ability, supports the following guidelines: . 
Inclusive language is the norm and is to be used in lectures, demonstrations and student assignments and papers. The University of Notre Dame shall use respectful and gender-inclusive language in its offi­cial proclamations and documents and calls upon members of the University community to adopt such usage in the conduct of their work and their social life both within and outside the Notre Dame communi­ty. [Faculty Handbook, p. 72, Gender-Inclusive Language] 
All forms ofharassment, whether verbal or non-verbal, are for­bidden by University policy and State law. It is the responsibility of fac­ulty, staff, and students to assure that no such harassment is allowed. Sexual harassment by any faculty, staff, or student is a barrier to the edu­cational, scholarly, and research purposes of the University of Notre Dame and is a violation of law and University policy. The University of Notre Dame affirms its commitment to maintaining a learning and working environment which is fair, respectful, and free from sexual harassment. [Faculty Handbook, p. 78, 1.] 
Pictures, illustrations and examples that demean women are prohibited in all public areas of the University. Professors will avoid such in their own lectures and demonstrations and demand the same ofstu­dents. 
Any behavior that contributes to the creation of an environ­ment hostile to women will not be tolerated. 
If, in spite of the University's policies against discriminatory sexual harassment, such behavior does occur, students are advised to con­tact the Office of the Ombudsperson, Professor John Borkowski. The ombudsperson, after taking information on the incident, is to help the complainant handle the matter, either by informal conciliation, or by helping the complainant proceed with the reporting procedure described above. [Faculty Handbook p. 76, Ombudsperson] 
15-2. 
"It's obvious [why we lost]," said Brown. "We didn't exe­cute and Penn State did." 
It was clearly evident that the Irish team was not playing up to its potential, but the Irish players should in no way be disappointed by a loss to the Lady Lions. Penn State's per­formance against the Irish un­doubtedly showed that their second place finish in last year's tournament was no joke, and they were capable of re­turning to the championship match. 
In addition to its defense, one of the major reasons for Penn State's success and for its defeat of the Irish is All­American senior setter Salima Davidson. Davidson was se­lected as the 1993 Big Ten Most Valuable Player and was co­captain, as a junior, of the Runner-up National Champion team. As setter, she holds a position of leadership on her team, and she plays as if she revels in that leadership. 
Davidson is all over the court, and the Irish got a taste of that on Friday night. She had two kills, 33 assists, 8 digs, and two block assists against the Irish. Just when the Irish thought that they had landed a point as one of Jenny Birkner's powerful right-side hits shot off a Lion defender into what appeared to be unattainable territory, Davidson ran swiftly from the net and put the ball back into play, as Penn State achieved the side-out. 
Davidson led the Lady Lions the next night to a victory over top-ranked, undefeated Nebraska, giving them a second straight trip to the final four at which they lost UCLA. 
The Irish finished the season with a 33-4 record and a great spring-board for future volley­ball success. The team was undefeated at the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center this season, bumping its home-court winning streak to 24 con­secutive victories. They won their fourth straight Midwestern Collegiate Conference tournament and regular season title. 
Coach Brown finished up her fourth season with the Irish posting a 116-30 career record thus far. She celebrated her hundredth victory at Notre Dame with a win over Texas on October 14. Her record and .800 winning percentage makes her the winningest coach in Notre Dame volleyball history. 
• PAYffiR

MEDICAL 
.. SCHOOL 
~ Today's Air Force offers a 
scholarship program that can 

help pay the cost of medical 
school. If selected, you can contin­
ue your present studies-and 
stop worrying about how to pay 
for them. Participation is based on 
competitive selection. For informa­
tion with no obligation, talk to an 
Air Force representative. Call 
USAF HEALTH PROFESSIONS TOLL FREE 1-800-423-USAF 


" 
-


Irish 

continued from' page 20 
ty to solidify its post-season potential. An NIT berth seems very feasible if the Irish can perform well against the estab­lished powers and knock off the rest of the pack. An NCAA appearance (seriously) seems plausible only if the Irish can win all three of their upcoming games and handle Kentucky or UCLA. 
And, of course, if they can beat the bums. 
Realistically, the Irish need to Win eight or nine of their last 11 to hold any hope of filling out a Big Dance card. 
Six or seven and the NIT seems likely. 
But whatever happens be­tween now and March Madness, the Irish have al­ready shown significant signs of improvement, though they have also show occasional glimpes of the past. 
Wednesday, January 18, 1995 
Irish 7th in Sears' Cup 
Observer Staff Report 
In the second annual NACDA/Sears Directors' Cup race, which recognizes the top athletic program in the coun­try, Notre Dame is seventh fol­lowing the 1994 fall sports sea­son. Four Irish teams -men's cross country, men's soccer, and volleyball -all advanced to postseason competition in their respective NCAA champi­onships. 
Penn S~ate is in first place, followed by Stanford, Colorado, Wisconsin, Arizona, and North Carolina. Rounding out the top 10 following Notre Dame are UCLA, James Madison, and Southern California. 
Points in the competition are awarded for eacn school's fin­ish in 22 sports-1 0 core sports. 

Courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 
Irish guard Ryan Hoover, key to Notre Dame's fortunes for the rest of the season, was held scoreless in the loss at Dayton last night. 
Peace on Earth 
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Holiday 1995 
Wednesday, January 18 
7 p.m., DeBartolo, Room 102 Speakout: Notre Dame Women and Men Speak Out on Human Dignity and Justice 
Peter Buonaccorsi, Pax Christi Prof. Carolyn Callahan, Accountancy Sr. Regina Coli, SJJ, Theology Faye Kolly, Amnesty International Fr. Steve Newton, esc, Rector Terry Porter, Senior Rochelle Stewart, Senior Andrea Topash, Senior Michelle Wong, Junior 
Sr. Kathleen Beatty, SJJ, 
Moderator 
Sponsored by Notre Dame departments and student organizations 
Two hot deals. 
-



Happr. 21gf BirthdayGreefingg 
to 
Stephanie Johnson 
Love Mom, Dad, Kids & Grandma 
Ul· RECRl:\ I"IOi\.AL ~POR rs 

1. 
This is a new campus, co-ree event. 

2. 
Game is played with six players (3 men and 3 women). 

3. 
Roster minimum of 10. 

4. 
Equipment provided by RecSports. 

5. 
Games begin February 1st. 


6. Captains' Meeting-1/19, 5:30p in JACC Auditorium. 
-

Wednesday, January 18, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
!'AI VJN ANn HORRF.I\ BILL WAITERSON CLOSE TO HOME JOHN MCPHERSON 
-

TI-1REE 1-\VNDRED a\, T\-\1\~\('S fOI<. BILLION GAZ.IlLIOf\1. nit. BIG 1-\E.U:' .' 

~<:>ME D~'iS 'iO\.J GH VP ~D '(C'JJ 1>-LR'C.f'-\)~ 'f:..~W \111\\ =--o----, 1\-\11'-\G'S I>Rt.l-\T GOI!-.IG TO GO W\;.Ll 
DILBERT 
\ 
1\-\t.fRf: 1\-1£ T'(P£. Of D"-'i~ w1-1m i~J\l S\\IJ\ll'i> Jll<:.l Gl\lt. 1~. P\JT 'iO\JR 1'1>-Jt>-1'1\A'S '2."-C\( ON, 
t-1\f>...Kt. Sf0ME I-lOT CI\OCCli.A\E.. J\1'-\\) R£f>...l) C\:>1-\\C. ~OO'f:S IN 
B£D WIT\\ TI\E Cc:NER'S \JP \MT\L \1.\E WORLD LO()~ MORt: E.tK<YJRI>-G\1--\G. 
0 0 
0 0 

0 0 0 0 0 () • 
0 
0 0 
I CAN'T DEC IDE IF I ~ 
SHOULD STAY WITH ~ 
ENGINEERING OR PURSUE ~ 
A CAREER IN MANAGE-~ 
CROSSWORD 
• cr c.w'?S£..

. " 
1\\1:.'\ Wc.'lER 0 0 LET '{C'>\l DO T\-\f>...T. 
.
·­

Cartoonist Dave Kellett has gone abroad for the semester. 

IN MY HEART I'M AN ENGINEER BUT I HEAR A VOICE CALLING ME TO THE DARK SIDE. 
THI>-TS A T\-\Rtt, FOLLOWED B'/ ---::=-..:::85 Z.ERO'C.S. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
I FOUND YOUR PROBLEM. 

ACROSS 26 Country singer so Recumbent, in a Cowboy-way
1 Mulligan, for 
one 29 Backus was his 52 Change lor a voice in 60's TV five 
5 Red Bordeaux 54 Rumor
31 -Guevara

10 Script starter 56 Severity
34 Kicked off 

58 Agenda items 36 Svelte in those 14 "Rule. 
61 Bumbler's blurt composer 62 Barely Britannia" 
days 38 Works by discernible15 Throes and 
woes sculptor Hans aroma 64 Apartment
39 Ejects16 Worn-out building head, 41 S.F. train

17 Foie gras fan slangily
system 65 Honeybunch19 Actress Skye 

42 Adhesive, lor 

66 "Scram!"
20 Author Tan one 
67 Attention­21 Undocumented 44 "Idylls of the getters person King" maiden 68 Mine excavation 22 Dialect 46 Diffident 69 Mountain cat 
23 Failed attempt 47 Add more cushioning
24 Prefix with act DOWN or state 49 Trial companion 
1 Casa room 2Tonsorial procedure
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
3 Begrudge 4Minute 
5 Shopping havens 
23 Parson's home 6 "I" problem 25 Racket 7 Peace symbol 26 Checkroom 8 1958 Elvis hit 
articles sSt.---27 Competitor of I'Ecole, France Phil j..:::..j..:::..j..!::..J..:~ ~-=+=+'::...j 10 Tangential 28 Lively new pet remark 30 Disoriented 11 Church seat 
32"Tell-" 12Up-good (1965 Zombies 13lnventory unit hit) 
18 Employee's 33 Computer delight command L.::.J.:..:l.::...L:..:J 22 Lay --tHick 35 Senior fellow 

37 Ski lilts 55 Sensualist 40 Potent punch 57 "Othello" villain 43 Harness race 58 Moist 45 Casts desirous 59-even keel 
eyes 
60 Charon's 48 Pinch a pooch crossing 
51 Climbs 62 60's draft org. 53-Dame 63 Silent-(20's 54 Poppycock moniker) 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
-

"I think the satellite dish just blew off the roof." 

~­
lver Get Somebody Totally Wasted! 
TAKE THE KEYS 

CAll ACAB. TAKE ASTAND . 

fRIINDS OON'l LH fRIINOS ORIVI DRUNK 

.. 
Hope You Had A Great 0-1-2-3 Break! 
0 • Zero Alcohol. Especially if you're under 21, driving, chemically dependent, on certain medications, or pregnant. 
~~~~=~~--~~~~~~~~~J~~=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1-~e~k~~~~~~bp~~~e~d~~.
~-A woman may need to allow more time between drinks right 
.,.._

before or during her menstrual cycle. 2· No more than two drinks per day, and never daily for women. 3 • No more than three drinks per day, and never daily for men. 
Sponsored by: Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 

No luck for Irish in wearing o' the green 


SPORTS 
page 20 Wednesday, January 18, 1995 

Young Irish improving, still showing signs of old 
Notre Dame, despite loss to Dayton, at 10-6 
By JASON KELLY Associate Sports Editor 
Just when you thought it was safe to go back to the Joyce Center, the Notre Dame men's basketball team returned to its problems of old. 
Winning the games it was supposed to win-a problem in recent seasons-the Irish traveled to Dayton Tuesday with a 10-5 record and renewed optimism. 
They left with a 73-63 defeat. 
It was reminiscent of recent seasons that have been hindered by the inability to defeat the dregs of the schedule. 
Dayton entered Tuesday's game at 5-7 and still reeling from an 82-39 loss to St. Louis Saturday at home. But they re­bounded quickly. 
Notre Dame retreated quickly, falling to 10-6 as it enters the toughest stretch of the season to date with games against Xavier, Duke and Boston College. 
When last we checked on our heroes of the hardwood, they were 3-2 after a loss to DePaul on December 10. 
But the Irish won seven of 10 games during the semester break, losing only to Louisville, Missouri and Oregon in the championship of the Far West Classic. 
Notre Dame had its chances to win each of those games, but all were losses to respectable opponents. 
Dayton doesn't fall into that category. 
"They outfought us," Irish coach John MacLeod said. "Lamaar Justice (13 points) and Pat Garrity (18 points) gave us yeoman's duty tonight, but we couldn't get much scoring in other areas." 
Garrity has grown into a steady force for the Irish inside, while Justice has become a more aggressive offensive threat outside. 
Sharpshooters Keith Kurowski and Ryan Hoover have been spectacular at times, but somewhat streaky. Kurowski sat the entire second half Tuesday and Hoover played 25 minutes without scor­ing. 
Some of Notre Dame's recent success can be attributed to its schedule. The Irish got to 10-6 without beating anyone of substance except for a Nov. 29 win over a then-struggling Indiana team. 
But there was still reason for optimism, because beating the bad teams repre­sented a step in the right direction. And only a few breaks separated the Irish from wins over Louisville or Missouri. 
While Tuesday's loss certainly doesn't diminish what the Irish accomplished earlier in the season, it certainly puts a dent in the armor as the Irish stare into their first serious slate of games. 
Xavier, Duke and Boston College back­to-hack-to-hack would intimidate even the best of teams in this season of college basketball parity. 
With two of those games on national television, Notre Dame has an opportuni­
see IRISH I page I 8 

.. 

Irish get bucked by Broncos, fall at home 4-3 
By MICHAEL DAY game to muster any kind of consistency "We just need to learn how to win these to 3-0 with 6:46 remaining in the period. Sports Writer at the offensive end. close games." Millar's goal seemed to strike a nerve, However, following a sluggish 30 min­Western Michigan broke a scoreless as the Irish exploded for a pair of goals It's nearly impossible to achieve suc­utes in which they fell behind 3-0, Notre tie with 13:12 remaining in the first in a two minute span late in the second 
cess playing with one hand tied behind 
Dame received the wakeup call they when Bronco center Jeremy Brown period.your back. 
needed and outplayed the Broncos for received a pass from left wing Derek "All of a sudden we showed some real Despite a va)iant effort, the shorthand­
most of the remainder of the game. Innanen and slid the puck past Irish signs of excitement and life," said ed Irish found that out the hard way 
Unfortunately for the Irish, WMU left goaltender Matt Eisler. Schafer. ''I'm proud of the way we Tuesday night in a 4-3 loss to Western 
wing Mike Whitton's score with just 3:30 The score stood at 1-0 until the 10:59 fought back and didn't give up even Michigan at the Joyce Fieldhouse. 
left dashed any hopes of a comeback mark in the second period. Innanen when we were down." Playing without leading scorer Jamie 
victory. once again was involved, setting up star Sophomore left wing Terry Lorenze,It Ling, who was given a game disqualifi­
"I regret that the last goal scored took left wing Chris Brooks for his 30th point playing his best game of the season, cation in last week's loss to Michigan 
away the reward for the effort put forth of the season. Center Kyle Millar's ninth stole the puck from Bronco defenseman State, the Irish struggled most of the tonight," said head coach Ric Schafer. goal of the year increased WMU's lead 
see HOCKEY/ page 16 

of note.
BITTERSWEET SIXTEEN 
For coverage of Notre Dame
The Irish volleyball team ended its NCAA run 
women's basketball, see
in Nebraska with loss to Penn St. 
Wednesday's Observer. 
see pages 20-21 






