
Friday, September 22, 1995• Vol. XXVII No. 25 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Support staff lies at lower end of pay scale 
By MEGAN McGRATH News Writer 
The next time you berate a department secre­tary for telling you a class is closed, keep in mind that this person is one of the lowest paid people on the Notre Dame campus. Never mind that this person, often a woman, is computer lit­erate, well-spoken and skilled in dealing with difficult situations, especially angry students. 
In an attempt to inform the University commu­nity of the disparity between staff salaries and the jobs they perform, the Gender Studies Department hosted a discussion group on that subject Thursday afternoon. The group ·Was moderated by Teresa Ghilarducci, associate pro­fessor of economics, and Jean Porter, associate professor of theology. 
Among the issues discussed were the low pay of support staff, both in comparison to the University and the South Bend area, and inher­ent problems within the employment structure of university staff. 
"It is clear that we don't value the service of tile women who occupy secretarial positions," Porter said during the emotionally charged dis-· cussion. "In economic terms, our support staff has not been shown gratitude for their profes­sional growth and loyalty to their departments." Many of the support staff in attendance veri­fied Porter's statements, sharing feelings of frustration and loss of dignity. A common problem among staff was being over-qualified for their current position, but having to leave the department to recieve proper compensation. 
"Middle management, that is, department and program chairs, have little say about salary and raise classifications for their staff," Porter said. "It is frustrating because we cannot award merit properly within our department." 
According to literature distributed by the Gender Studies department, the starting wage for a secretary at the University is $6. 70, mak­ing it one of the lowest paid occupations, despite the relatively high level of skills needed. 
In addition, Ghilarducci discussed a 1993 sur­vey of the 100 major employers of the South Bend area. A comparison of secretarial wages found Notre Dame to rank near the bottom of these local companies. 
"Relativ.e. to the amount of work, skill, efficien­
see SlAfF/ page 6 
Photos courtesy Parseghian Foundation 
Ara Parseghian has faced many battles on the football field, but he now faces a battle for his three grandchildren who have been diag­nosed with Niemann­Pick Disease Type C, an incurable genetic disor­der. It was for this rea­son that he founded the Ara Parseghian Medical Research Foundation which works to fund research on the dis­ease. Recent spon­sored events have included an auction, a concert by Chicago, and the play 'Coaches.' 

The fight 
of a 

lifetime 
Parseghian Foundation sponsors events to raise money for medical research 
By MIKE NORBUT Spom Edimr 
Quietly, Notre Dame and Northwestern fans gathered in the Joyce Center. At first, the peo­ple weren't exactly sure what they were waiting for; the end of the line was too far from the front. But that's what tends to happen on the first football weekend of the year. 
When word spread, it was like a magnet, drawing people even closer, yet farther from the front. But everyone was patient. 
"What are we waiting for, Dad?" a young Irish fan asked. 
"Ara Parseghian is signing autographs," the boy's father answered. "He won two national championships with Notre Dame." 
"Wow, that's more than Lou Holtz," the boy answered, wide-eyed. 
Providing a backdrop for Parseghian were Irish articles up for auction. But the money did not go to some man wishing to get rid of his col­lection of memorabilia. It was for the Ara Parseghian Medical Research Foundation. 
"I was there signing autographs for 2 1/2 hours that day," Parseghian said. "It was so exciting with all of the spirit that the fans showed." 
Spirit is something he witnessed first-hand as coach of the Fighting Irish from 1964-74. Spirit and support from the Notre Dame community is what keeps him going now. 
The Ara Parseghian Foundation is less than a year old. It was developed after the coach found that three of his four grandchildren were diag­nosed with a genetic disorder that as of now does not have a cure. 
see ARA/ page 6 

' 
~ ~ 
Senate battles for respect 
late faculty opinion and for thisAdministration, 
purpose may, at its discretion, conduct faculty meetings andfaculty seek to referenda," the Handbook s_aid. 
3:311-fi::~o p.m. Tours r .. Main Circle 
"The Senate also receives from4:30p.m. ng Band Rehearsal Main Building · improve relations other groups in the University
4:45-8:00 p.m. Glee Club Retlaarsal Crowley Hall 
items requiring consideration
Editor's note: The following is

6:45p.m. Band steps off for ~ny Band Building by the faculty. 
the second of a two-part series

7:00p.m. Pep Rally JACC (Gate 10) examining the relevance and group," Sheehan said. "With respect to matters of According to University academic concern, the recom­
conflict of the Faculty Senate.
Saturday, September 23 

Provost Timothy O'Meara, the mendations of the Senate are
Today, The Observer looks at
---·-·1'-----' 

Faculty Senate, which consists referred to the Executive
the interaction between the 

entirely of members elected by Committee of the Academic8:,30 a~m. .. · .March~ BarnHtehearsal Loltus Center 
Senate and the administration. 

their peers, is involved in the Council, which shall place the 9:3oa.m. ,·• . . MMaetii)O ·.,. esc 
8:30-12;30 J.~\/· Alumnl AospjtahtYDenter JACC North Dome 
governance of the University in recommendations on the agen­
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE 

two ways: through the forma­da of the Council. 
10:00·1f:aD.•.Jn~.( ..C~rteader Petformances NO Bookstore 
Assistant News Editor 

tion of faculty opinion and "Consistent with the forego­11:30-12:00 p.llt Glee Club-NO in Review JACC, North Dome 
10:40-1 M'l.nt•. Cheerleader Performances JACC, North Dome 
through the rite of agenda on ing, the Senate may adopt rules 
In examining the role of the 

12:D0-12:30 p.ll. · Shenani,gans Pedormance JACC, North Dome 
Faculty Senate and considering the Academic Council, which, and bylaws relating to the de­
like the Senate, is a legislative termination and election of12:00-12:45 p~m. MiKthing ~ndConcert Main Building 
whether or not it is more than 

body. members and officers, the es­
1:10 p.m. Matching SamtPrftgame Show Notre Dame Stadium 
"just a debating society," one

1:30 p.m. NOTRE DAME VS.JEAA.S Notre Dame Stadium 
In describing the role of the tablishment of committees, and
question must be asked: Is the

4:15p.m. MasS' .... . ·; . ., . · : · Sf&pan Center : 
Senate, O'Meara cited Article other conduct of its business." 
administration willing to listen 

IV, Section 3, subsection b of According to O'Meara, this4:30-7:00 p.m. Car~dl~llght Q!tlAGt:Bllffe) · .. Dining Halls , ~· 
to the Senate? 

·------·---------•-'"'"-'·-·-"---~ ~~~ ~ ',' l'~ ' I/ -j;,., ' . .J. 
the "University of Notre Dame description, along with the
And this question, said 

Richard Sheehan, a former Faculty Handbook," which Senate's accomplishments, il­
states that "the range of con­lustrates that "the voice of the
Sunday, September 24 
Senate chair of two terms , is 

cern of the Faculty Senate ex­Senate since its inception has
best addressed to members of 

tends to matters of affecting the been important at Notrethe administration. 
faculty as a whole."
"The Faculty Senate is not 

"The Senate seeks to formu­
just one more special interest see SENATE/page 10 

page2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, September 22, 1995 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE
• INSIDE COLUMN 

Quebec mulls independence from Canada 
r--.. 
~ 
In defense of tnen and facial hair 
Stereotypes are ~su­Andy Cabinessally damaging to the 
SportS Copy Editor 
group or groups they target. Many such stereotypes have severely damaged gender 
relations here in Notre Dame, Indiana. Two of the worst are: SMC women are much bet­ter-looking than ND women, and all ND guys care about is sex. 
Generalizations like these are unfair and have been causing problems for years. I've had classes at Saint Mary's, and I can't say that I've seen any significant differences between the women of the two campuses, in looks or otherwise. In the same manner, cer­tainly not all ND guys are not out for sex. A date is doomed if the female begins with the premise that the only reason the guy is tak­ing her out is to get her into bed with him. 
Gender relations will never improve until those stereotypes are shattered, but I hope to squelch some others before they get out of hand. I am talking about facial hair. These misconceptions need to be set straight before this campus ends up with a bunch of men running around campus fearing that they will never get another date if they forget to shave one morning. 
The worst of facial-hair assumptions is that all men who grow facial hair do it to impress .women.· . Some guys do it for that reason. Some even do it at the request of a significant other, but it is not the reason in most cases. There are a wide variety of reasons why we grow facial hair. A lot of guys do it just because it's something different. Many underage guys grow facial hair in hopes of looking older and not getting carded at Osco or the Linebacker. For some it's simple peer pressure-they grow facial hair because all their friends do, not really knowing why. In many Protestant denominations, including mine, it is an old tradition for adult male church members to wear beards. Some guys are just lazy. To claim that all men grow facial hair to impress women is wrong, as well as degrading to men. 
Equally disturbing is the thought that 
women believe that guys grow facial hair 
only to impress them. I find that train of 
thought arrogant, as if guys have no other 
purposes in life than pleasing women. We 
don't, or at least we shouldn't, make every 
decision based on what women will or won't 
like. I'm not suggesting that men lose all 
civility and decency, but don't compromise 
yourself either. 
It is also not true that all women do not like 
facial hair. Some do, some don't, many don't 
care. Women should not assume that 
because they do not like facial hair that no 
women like facial hair and, thus, men 
shouldn't have facial hair. The reason we 
live in such a diverse society is that everyone 
has different preferences. Such blanket 
assumptions are almost never true. 
Lastly, it seems that guys are being judged 
on the basis of their facial hair. If women 
are indeed doing this, then they are guilty of 
being just as superficial as guys who judge 
women by how nice their legs are or other 
such qualities. A man will be no less fun at 
an SYR, no less sensitive or caring as a 
boyfriend, or no less committed as a husband 
because of that beard or goatee. , 
My final words of advice to women: If you 
don't like the way a certain guy looks with 
facial hair, it's fine to tell him that. Just 
assume that you're the reason he has it, and 
accept him if he decides to keep it. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Viewpoint 
Jaime Heisler Bridget Green 
Tom Moran Dan O'Neil 
Sports Michael O'Hara 
Andy Cabiness Lab Tech 
Production 
MikeRuma 
Belle Bautista Graphics Peter Ashmeade Chris Mullins 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


MONTREAL 

Could Quebec go it alone? 
No problem, say the separatists campaigning for independence. But an array of doomsayers predict hardship and financial chaos if the mostly French-speaking province votes Oct. 30 to break away from Canada. 
A crushing debt burden, higher interest rates, an exodus of entrepre­neurs and professionals. Those are among the dire forecasts from ana­lysts who believe severe labor pains would accompany the birth of a sov­ereign Quebec. 
The separatists, who trail slightly in the latest opinion polls, admit Quebec has economic problems but accuse their opponents of scare tac­tics. The separatists say Quebec's economy will never thrive under the current federal system and will be invigorated by independence. 
"It's impossible to continue with the federalism we have now -big government, very bureaucratic," said Yvon Loubier, a Parliament member and financial expert for the separatist Bloc Quebecois. "We can't keep spendi:fig as much as we have." 
Quebec has vast natural resources -timber, hydroelectric capacity, minerals -and a solid manufactur­ing sector run by a corps of highly 
HISTORY: Became french colony in 1663. Taken over by British in 1763. Incorporated into Canadian confederation in 1867.1n referendum in 1980, separatists lost by a 60-40 margin. 
regarded managers. The province's gross domestic product of roughly $120 billion is comparable to Austria's, and in land area it would be the world's 18th largest nation. 
But Quebec also has an 11.1 percent jobless rate, higher than the Canadian average of 9.6 percent. Its tax burden and deficit-to-GDP ratio are among the highest of any province, and it has the fastest-growing elderly population, meaning social costs will be borne by a dwindling number of working-age tax­payers. 
There are crucial disputes, as the referendum campaign intensifies, over Quebec's deficit and its share of the $550 billion federal debt. 
Quebec currently pays 24 percent of the interest on the federal debt, reflect­ing its share of Canada's 29-million population. Separatist leaders say they would offer to handle only 17 percent of the debt after independence, reflect­ing Quebec's share of the national wealth. 
There is bitter disagreement over the size of the deficit that an independent Quebec would inherit. 
Separatists say the current provincial deficit of $3.9 billion would double to $8 billion. But Brian Neysmith, pres­ident of Canadian Bond Rating Service, said the deficit was likely to be at least $15 billion. 
Cuba is Carter's next project 
ATLANTA 
Former President Jimmy Carter says he is holding talks aimed at improving U.S.-Cuban relations because Washington politicians are reluctant to get involved. "The most sensitive political issue in our country is Cuba," Carter said after a day of talks with Cuban exiles produced no movement. "When we talk to the leaders in 

Congress who always make an issue of animosity toward Cuba, they tell us privately, 'We hope you will do something about that, but don't tell anybody that I told you that,"' Carter said. Carter met Thursday with Cuban American National Foundation head Jorge Mas Canosa, an exile, to discuss a tougher embargo on the nation.. Later that day, the House overwhelmingly passed the measure. 
The end of the squirrel fry? 
ELLETTSVILLE, Ind. 
The annual squirrel fry, a tradition in this farming community for 30 years, is facing an uncertain future. Young people, it seems, aren't interested in the tradition­al meal of fried rodent. Organizers of the annual squirrel fry in south-central Indiana have watched attendance drop off and resigned themselves that the gathering may soon go the way of the horse-drawn plow. "There aren't many of us left who go in for this sort of thing," explained James Thrasher, president of the local groups that staged this year's squirrel fry. For most of the group, the squirrel fry is an annual novelty as well as a nod to the days when people hunted and ate more wild game. Those brave enough to sample the main course reported that the stringy, dark brown meat of squirrel tastes like rabbit, or even frog legs or dark chicken meat. 
Lions on the loose in Idaho 
LAVA HOT SPRINGS, Idaho 
Hunters on Thursday killed 16 African lions whose es­cape from a chicken wire-enclosed game compound for lions, tigers and crossbred "ligers" forced parents to keep their children indoors The animals escapee! Wednesday night from the private Ligertown Game Farm Inc. in rural Idaho, prompting officials to call parents early Thursday and warn them not to send their children to school. The farm's two owners were treated for minor injuries at a hospital after they were attacked by at least one of the cats. No other injuries were reported. Officials and local residents say the farm has been a trouble spot for years. The compound "looks like mostly salvage material -various and sundry types of wire, net wire, plywood, chicken wire," said Greg Tourtlotte, the state Fish and Game Department's local supervisor. "A lot of our people felt that it was just a matter of time before something happened." 
Illinois high school bans Chaucer 
EUREKA, Ill. 
"The Canterbury Tales," that sometimes bawdy staple 
of English literature, is off-limits to high school seniors 
during a debate over whether it's too raunchy for the 
classroom. Parents and students in this central Illinois 
community have quietly complained that portions of the 
14th Century classic are too racy, school officials said 
Thursday. "I don't lose anything by not teaching 
Chaucer, but I think my students do," teacher Nancy 
Quinn said. Quinn's discussion of marriage and adultery 
in some of the tales prompted complaints early this year, 
and dozens of people have expressed support for the 
board's action. Some of Chaucer's stories are bawdy, 
slapstick tales. However, Bradley University literature 
professor Juliette Cunico said prime-time television con­
tains more sex than anything in "The Canterbury Tales." 
•INillANA • NATIONAl WEATHER 
Friday, Sept. 22 
Accu-Weather'"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The AccuWeather 1111 forecast for noon, Friday, Sept. 22. 
C 1995 AccuWeather. Inc. 
Columbus 57 37 Miami 90 78 Philadelphia 68 60 

Friday, September 22, 1995 
The Observer • NEWS page 3 

Calls plague ca01pus Snite features Irish art exhibit 
By CLAIRE HALBRITTER 
News Writer 
Each year, Saint Mary's stu­dents are plagued with tele­phone calls of a disturbing or obscene nature. There have al­ready been a number of calls this year, most relating to sex and other personal issues. 
Bernadette, a Saint Mary's freshman, experienced a very disturbing call from an alleged "Rocco". According to Bernadette, he left a message on her answering machine stat­ing something about "stolen merchandise." 
He went on to say that if she was not in her room when he came to retrieve the "mer­chandise", he was going to "Break down her door and snap her legs in half." Rocco ended the message by saying, "OK, jerky, Ba-Bye!" This phrasing is a trademark of fa­mous prank-callers The Jerky Boys. 
"My first impression was to laugh because it seemed like a joke. The more I listened to it the more disturbed I became." Bernadette stated. "It wasn't very settling that the person knew my name and phone rrumber and could possibly know where my room was." 
Saint Mary's security sug­gests saving any obsene mes­sages, and filing a report if any student receives any calls of such nature. 
A more common call Saint Mary's students receive is a questionnaire.Leslie, another Saint Mary's freshman, said, "They asked me somewhat nor­mal questions like, What age would you talk to your kids about sex? Then it led to ques­tions relating to personal pref­erence and other sexual ques­tions." 
Leslie said that she didn't an­swer many of the questions but that there was a gradual buildup to the more vulgar ones. 
The Security Department ad­vises students to refuse to par­ticipate in any personal surveys and hang up any time the caller states that he or she is doing something sexual or asks what the student is wearing. Security also recommends not to attempt to be clever, as this encourages the caller. 
Students should report all incidents to the Security De­partment at once. The number for Saint Mary's Security is 284-5000. 
Collection works represent eras in Irish history 
By MARY KATE MORTON 
Associate News Editor 
The Snite Museum of Art wel­comes a new exhibition on Sunday entitled Irish Art: 1770­1995 -History and Society. The exhibition hails from the Crawford Municipal Art Gallery in Cork, Ireland and will run through December 24. 
According to Chuck Loving, the assistant director of the Snite, the 42 works that com­prise the Irish Art collection provide insight into the political and social history and the rich cultural and literary legacy of Ireland over the past 200 years. 
One of the highlights of the exhibit is the earliest work in the collection, James Barry's "Portraits of Barry and Burke in the Characters of Ulysses and his Companions Fleeing from the Cave of Polyphemus," which dates from 1776. 
The painting makes an alle­gorical statement about English statesman Edmund Burke's public opposition to British North American policy during the American Revolution, relat­ing it to the myth of Ulysses. 
Also included in the exhibi­tion are paintings, sculptures and photographs which are part of the permanent collec­tion in Cork. 
Many of the works represent major eras in Irish history, with the Famine of 1845 embodied in a 1936 painting entitled "Economic Pressure" and a 1990 photograph, 'The Country Blooms, a Garden and a Grave." Furthermore, Irish lit­erary heroes such as William Butler Yeats and James Joyce are celebrated in various forms throughout the collection. 
The Notre Dame Keough Cen­ter for Irish Studies is coordi­nating several events and lec­tures to coincide with the Irish Art exhibit. 



Luke Gibbons, Lecturer in Film and Cultural Studies at Dublin City University, Ireland, will lecture at the Snite on Sunday, November 12 at 5:00 p.m. 
His lecture, "National Narratives in Irish Art: From Romanticism to Post Modernism," will be highlighted by several of the Crawford works. 
To complement his lecture, Gibbons plans to interact with the students in the Irish Studies and English departments, spon­sors of his Notre Dame visit. 

The Snite will premiere Irish Art: 1770-1995 -History and Society from 2-4 p.m. on Sun­day, September 24th in the O'Shaughnessy West Gallery to kick off its opening. Peter Mur­ray, the exhibition curator, will speak about the collection at 3 p.m. 
Notre Dame is the last American showing of the hold­ings, which will later return to their home in Cork. 



~~~~!~~~!1 
~~-~~~ 

Tour Sears Tower and See Chicago from lhe Top, Have Lunch al Planet Holly.vood, and See the Hilarious WhodunJt 'Shear Madness' Transportatlon and Motorcoach Snacks Included 
CHRISTMAS SHOPPING GURNEE MtLLSIThursday Nov. 161!1 WOODAELD MAU/Frlday Nov. 24th GURNEE MILLS/Sunday Dec. 3rd Only $19.00 per person, and Includes snacks 
let Jaguar help you create that special bus trip Call Today (219) 2m293 
Office Hours: 8:00am • 1 :OCpm Please Leave Message Alter Hours 
Jaguar Tours specializes In tours of ColoraOO and lhe Rockies 

page4 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 22, 1995 

' 
~ 
t 
t 
' 
' 
The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
''on the campus'' 

Open Mon.-Sat, 9am-5pm • Special hours football weekends! Fri., 9am-7pm Sat, 8am-6pm Call for our illustrated catalog • 1-219-631-6316 
r . 

Friday, September 22, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Study shows increase in debt Clintons denounce ads 
By SALLY STREFF BUZBEE 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
More American students and their parents are taking on debt -and more of it -to pay for college, a study said Thursday. 
Borrowing for college has jumped 50 percent since 1992, from $16 billion to an estimat­ed $24 billion in 1995, accord­ing to The Education Resources Institute, a Boston-based non­profit group that provides in­formation about college aid. 
The growing loan volume, if it continues, could hurt not only students and their families but the economy as a whole by lim­iting their buying and saving power, the study said. "We're trying to build awareness among consumers and in Congress that this could be a problem," said Ted Freeman, the institute's president. 
In part, the increase results from good news -more people are going to college, including increasing numbers of minority students. But college costs also 


Usted National RegistryOf Historic Places 
Classic Dining At Its Best LUNCH DINNER TUESDAY-FRIDAY SATURDAY EVENING 
11 -2 5:30 • 8:30 
• 
Private Baths • Business Rates 

• 
Phones/Fax • All Major Credit Cards Accepted 

• 
Non-Smoking • Honeymoon Suite 


• Color lV • Full Breakfast Included BE SURE TO VISIT OUR GOURMET FOOD SHOP 
8t FABLES GALLERY REPRESENTING OVER 150 FINE ARTISTS 
Wouldn't You Rather Be Staying In A Mansion? 
317 Uncolnway East Mishawaka 
256-0365 
1-800-437-0131 Fox (219) 259-2622 
have grown, while federal grants have remained mostly 

with suggestive poses
static. In addition, changes in fed­By TERENCE HUNT young people in strikingly sug­eral laws two years ago allowed 

Associated Press gestive poses. 
students to borrow more, and 
made more students and par­

WASHINGTON ents eligible to borrow under Rap music. Racy movies. Now
the federal guaranteed-loan 

ads for jeans. They are all sym­program. 
bols of the cultural wars buffet­ing presidential politics, under-College debt still accounts for 
scoring the 
1 a small fraction of all debt 
growing
Americans take on, and thus 
importance
not necessarily a cause for con­
of social cern; some economists say. 
issues in the"For a lot of people, it's the 
contest for
only thing to do, so they do it," 
the White
said David Wyss, chief financial House.
economist for market analysts 
President

DRVMcGraw Hill of Lexington, Clinton
Clinton firedMass. "What's the alternative? 
the latest
If you don't go to college, you're shot, denouncing Calvin Kleinstuck in today's world." 

advertisements that show 
"Outrageous," said Clinton, the father of a teen-age daugh­ter. "It was wrong to manipu­late those children and use them for commercial benefit." 
Already criticized as kiddie porn and withdrawn under pressure by Klein, the ads were ripe for political attack. 
Clinton pounced after reading an advance copy of a newspa­per column written by his wife, Hillary, condemning the Klein ads as disturbing exploitation. 
The first lady took her attack well beyond the Klein ads. She encouraged Americans to "stay away from the theaters and turn ofT our (television) sets be­cause we are so offended by the gratuitous violence, sexual degradation and bad taste we are subjected to on the screen." 
The criticism from the White House was just the latest volley by a politician in the name of family values. 
"There's all kinds of evidence that suggest that cultural con­siderations are as important as economic ones in moving vot­ers," said Thomas Mann, direc­tor of governmental studies for the Brookings Institution . "Clinton is trying to find some basis of engaging voters who have turned away from the Democratic Party." 
Conservatives doubt Clinton's sincerity but worry that he's striking a chord with voters. 
"It should be a warning to Republicans not to play games at their convention by watering down their platform on these issues," favoring economics over values, Bauer said. 
Mon-Frl 10-6 e\5 ·c~ \{5 Sat 9-5 ~o \~ 'f'Jee Sun 12-4 "'"\5 '1 52313 u.s. 33 North • South Bend, IN \0( " (1'\e • Phone 219-272-9608 9'0. don't despair • "' ~ Spend the afternoon at ~ Sugarberry Lane Gift Shoppe• "' z a: Y. • Yankee Candles • Boyds Collection Ltd. • c Shelia's • Gourmet Foods • Gat's Meow • N.D. z Irish Villages • Possible Dreams • Framed Prints• • Seasonal Accessories • Jewelry • South Bend"' z Chocolates 'Domers' and 'Rocknes' • Cherished a: Y. Teddies and much more ! c z ' ~ ;• Stop in before or after the game too I  

Finance Club 

CanerNight 

Represe.ntatives from 30 firms to meet with Baxter 
~~&Gamble 

ern Mutual Life Ford Motor Company General Electric Cargill NBD Baflk National City Corp. 
Sophomores 
Tuesday Evening, September 26 Atrium 

------------~--------------~­
page6 The Observer • NEWS Friday, September 22, 1995 
Staff 

continued from page 1 
cy and responsibility, includ­ing writing letters and deal­ing with students, that our secretaries have," Ghilarducci said. "It is clear they are not being paid fair­ly. In many cases, they are not making enough money to support their families." 
According to Ghilarducci, in order to support a family above the poverty level in the South Bend area, one needs to make about 16 thousand dollars a year. Most University secretaries do not make this amount, but many of them are supporting their families. 
The panel also disputed university claims that work­ing conditions and fringe benefits compensate for the low wages. According to Porter, a survey of Arts and Letter secretaries showed over 60 percent dissatisfied with their positions. 
"The question of staff salaries may seem to be an unusual forum for gender studies to be involved with," Porter said. "But it is an important subject because it is a profession dominated by women." 
Both Porter and Ghilarducci noted that female-dominated profes­sions tend to be paid less than those dominated by males. In fact, according to Ghilarducci, when women enter professions, they tend to bring the pay scale down. 
"Two equally qualified men could enter a prof.es­
sion, equal in every way," she illustrated. "But the one who goes into a job with 65 percent women will get paid 15 percent less, on average." 
Staff salaries are a gender issue at Notre Dame, where 
97.7 percent of all clerical workers are female, accord­ing to the panel. But beyond a gender issue, Ghilarducci feels that power, or lack thereof, is a major factor. 
"Sexism is certainly a fac­tor contributing to low staff salaries," she said. "But there is another proxy, and that is power." 
Ghilarducci touched on the precedent established in the 1970's for unionizing on campus. "In the late 1970's the grounds crew, janitors and food service workers wanted to align themselves with the Teamsters," Ghilarducci said. "They didn't join the Union, but they were able to alert the University and got big pay raises." 
Ghilarducci also offered the example of half of faculty voting to join the American Association for University Professors, a union for col­lege professors, and jumping into the top tier of salaries. 
The panel stressed that while unionization was an option, the more important matter was unification. 
"It is important to organize as a group and have a voice," Ghilarducci said. Other members of the audi­ence, including Richard McBrien, chair of the faculty senate, stressed the im­portance of galvanizing the faculty and even the student body behind the staff. 
Ara 
continued from page 1 
The disease, Niemann-Pick Disease Type C, keeps the body from metabolizing cholesterol, which builds up in the liver, spleen and brain, ·causing a breakdown of the nervous sys­tem. 
It is a brutal disorder that at­tacks children between the ages of five and ten. After diagnosis, the victims have about ten more years to live. 
Parseghian's three youngest grandchildren, Michael, 8, Marcia, 6, and Christa, 4, have been diagnosed. Michael's speech is slurred and he has trouble keeping his balance. Marcia is starting to lose some coordina­tion. Christa is as yet symptom­free. 
Only the oldest grandson, Ara, does not have the disease. It was after Notre Dame's 26-24 loss to Michigan last year when the fam­ily got the news. 
"When we found out, it was an absolutely stunning event," Parseghian explained. "We griev­ed for a long time." 
But the grieving turned into action quickly. Board meetings were held in October with ideas to develop a foundation to fund research of the disease. Motions were made to incorporate. 

"Because of the time con­straints, it was an accelerated process," Parseghian said. "We were able to get things moving and get the message out pretty quick." All they lacked were funds. But it didn't take too long to procure those. 
Friends, players and support­ers came out of the woodwork to donate to the cause. And all the money, about $2 million overall, has gone towards the develop­ment of seven new laboratories around the country, all of which are devoted totally to researching the Niemann-Pick Dis·ease Type 
c. 

"When we started out, there was only one laboratory that researched it," the coach con­tinued. "Now we have eight, and they're mostly at universities all over the country." 
Ranging from Wyoming to Pennsylvania, the labs are work­ing to isolate the defective gene. Once that is done, Stage Two can go into effect. 
"It's going to happen soon," Parseghian said. "We're counting on it. Once we can do that, we can concentrate on solving the disease." Time is of the essence, especially considering Michael's condition. 
"With the girls, we might have a reasonable amount of time," he added. "Michael's condition is significantly accelerated. We're working against the clock." 
The Foundation is doubly pressed for time right now. They need to rmd the gene to help the children, and they also need to get money to fund the labs. 
But as of right now, the money is the least of their worries. 
"It's really amazing how much we've accomplished," Parseghian said. "For us to start at zero and get this much in so short a time, it's really gratifying." 
They foundation is centered around the Notre Dame family. The play, "Coaches," was put on the benefit the effort. Olympic skaters Debi Thomas and Brian Boitano will be at the Joyce Center October 4 for a "Skate for Life" benefit. 
Saturday night, the band Chicago will be at the Joyce Center for a benefit concert. Their manager, Peter Schivarelli, played for Parseghian from 1969-70. 
It's a little known fact, but the band members are huge fans of Notre Dame. And with the Notre Dame connection through Schivarelli, the concert was the logical thing to do to help the foundation. 
"Peter has been terrific," Parseghian said. "He's been the catalyst for the whole thing. And for the band to be willing to do this, that's just amazing." 
Almost as amazing as the line waiting to receive an autograph from a legend. 

South Bend Uribune Irish SP-orts ReP-ort 
WSBT Radio • WSBT-TV • WNSN Radio 
IN ASSOCIATION WITH THE 

Ara Parseghian Medical Research Foundation 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 

Thinking of south Bend? Think oakwood villas! 
• 
single family homes -villa concept 

• 
association landscaping & snow removal 

• 
8 models; 1200 to 1900 sq ft-or more 

• 
minutes from Notre Dame & StMary's 

• 
minutes from Blackthorn Golf Course 

• 
quick access to Toll Rd & shopping 

• 
as low as $110,000, including lot 



Miller Builders (219) 277-0337 OAKWOOD W R Birkey & Assoc 1...::=:=:::::;-yJLLAS~;:::::J (219) 272-2892 
STUDENT TICKETS: 2 FORJuST$25.00* 
*WITH A SCHOOL 1.0. AT THE JOYCE CENTER BOX OFFICE. 
TICKETS ON SALE NOW AT ALL TICKETMASTER OUTLETS, THE JOYCE CENTER BOX OFFICE OR CHARGE BY PHONE: 
(219) 272-7979 
SUNNY 
101.1'.. 

·~--------~------------------------~----------~--·--------~ 
Friday, September 22, 1995 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
--~----------------------~~~~~-=~~~~~~~~~~~--------------------------------~~­
Russian agents storm bus to free hostages 
Region has been the site ofseveral hostage dramas 
By DAVE CARPENTER Associated Press 
MOSCOW 
A bus hijacking in a restive region of southern Russia ended Thursday when security agents stormed aboard, freed all 18 hostages unharmed and arrested the hijackers. 
Authorities said the gunmen in the republic of Dagestan, who were thwarted in their demands for $1.5 million and a helicopter, probably intended to flee to neighboring Chechnya. 
. Alexander: Korcheba, a duty officer at the Federal Security Service in Moscow, said the two children and 16 adults were freed and the terrorists "neu­tralized" in a storming that ended a 19-hour drama. 
Two gunmen seized the bus Wednesday night at the termi-
Knule Rockne. Coacn Notre Dame. 1918·30 tnuuc led ISS\· 
nal in Makhachkala, 1,000 miles south of Moscow, after police questioned and searched them for suspicious behavior, Korcheba said. 
One of the men pulled a Kalashnikov assault rifle from a bag, fired a round and ordered the policemen down to the floor, according to police reports quoted by the ITAR-Tass news agency. 
The pair then seized the bus and took the 19 people on board hostage, the news agency said. One woman was later released. 
Korcheba said the hijackers demanded a helicopter and $1.5 million in U.S. currency by the end of the day Thursday. 

The hijackers had told police negotiators that their demands were not political, but that they needed the money to help friends who were addicted to drugs. 
There were conflicting re­ports about whether the men had accomplices. 
Authorities distracted the hi­jackers' attention by landing a helicopter next to the bus mo­ments before storming it, Inde­pendent Television reported. 
Gunfire and blaring sirens could be heard on TV reports of the storming. One detained hi­jacker was shown lying on the ground with his face covered in blood shortly after the raid, but he did not appear to be seri­ously injured. Both men were seen being led to a police van. 

Makhachkala, capital of the Russian republic of Dagestan, is on the shore of the Caspian Sea. The republic is close to many areas of the Caucasus Mountain region torn by civil and ethnic conflicts, such as Chechnya, Georgia and Azer­baijan. 
The region has been site of several hostage dramas since the breakup of the Soviet Union. 
Last October, two hijackers seized a plane with 27 pas­sengers leaving Makhachkala and demanded $2 million and a flight to Iran. The hijackers were arrested. 
In 1994, there were two bus hijackings, one in May and another in July. 
In the first hijacking, 29 hostages were freed unharmed, but five women hostages and a kidnapper were killed in the second one when a gunman detonated a grenade in a heli­copter being used for an escape. 
The legends of college football come to life at the 
new College Football Hall of Fame! Action-packed 
interactive displays put you in the middle of the 
game, while reflective photo galleries and time-honored artifacts celebrate the history and lore of college football's greatest athletes and coach~s. 
Explore the color and pagear.try of the world of college football­an experience the whole family is sure to enjoy! 

College Eootball Hall o Fame 
South Bend, Indiana • (Z 19) 235-9999 

Photograpn courtesy ol Studebaker Nalional Museum. Inc 
Hijacker blames conditions 
By DIANNA CAHN Associated Press 
EILAT, Israel 
The Iranian flight attendant who hijacked a passenger plane to Israel with 175 people aboard said Thursday he was desperate to flee Iran's repres­sive government. 
"I believe the people of Iran do not deserve to be in such an oppressed situation," said Reza Jabari, 29. "I wanted to make it public and announce it to the world. 
"I had no intention of harm­ing the passengers or the crew," Jabari said in an inter­view with The Associated Press at the Eilat police sta­tion. Iran, meanwhile, stepped up its accusations that Israel had colluded with the hijacker from the start, a charge Israeli officials denied. 
Jabari appeared Thursday in Eilat Magistrate's Court, where Judge Shlomo Bar Eli ruled he could be held for up to 15 days while authorities investigated him on charges of air piracy, hijacking, weapons possession and infiltration. 
The Iranian plane was hi· jacked Tuesday morning dur­ing a flight from Tehran to the Persian Gulf resort island of Kish. It was returned to Tehran on Wednesday with 174 passengers and crew, including some passengers who witnesses said had asked for asylum. 
It was not immediately clear why the passengers had been denied asylum. 
Iran's Parliament speaker, Ali Akbar Nateq Nouri, was quoted on state-run Tehran radio as saying the delay in re­turning the plane and the re­fusal to extradite the hijacker demonstrated "the Zionist regime's terrorist nature." 
He also protested Israel's in­terrogation of the passengers. 
The captain of the plane, whose name was not given, suggested in a radio interview that the Israelis had advance knowledge of the hijacker's ar­rival. 
Jabari denied having any contact with Israel before the hijacking. 


Positions Available For NIPSCO's Associate Training Program 
Features 12..Month Rotation thru all6 major business units 
Company Information Session: 9/25 from 6..8 p.m., Foster Room, LaFortune Student Center {all seniors & underclassmen are welcome) 
Interviews: 9/26-Career & Placement Services 
Energize your future with an available Associate position 
VISION: NIPSCO lndwtries, Inc., will achieve superior eamiflgs growth by being the premieT 
NORTHERN INDIANA 
supplier of tnerg)' products and s~roices in the Industrial Heartland ofAmerica. 
PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY 







It's a big decision, choosing where to begin your career. There are many reasons to join Deloitte & Touche-our clients, our dedication to quality, our professional development opportunities, our people. People who enjoy what they do. Our mission is simple: To be the professional services f;rm that consistently exceeds the expectations o[ our clients and our people. 
With 15,000 people in more than 100 offices in the United States, and through our global organiza­tion, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu International, we offer clients worldwide an outstanding and diverse port­/olio o/ services. For you, this means unlimited opportunities to grow, professionally and personally. So why not join a ftrm that will exceed your expectations? 
Congratulations to the /oDowing graduates o/ the Class o/ '95 who recently joined Deloitte & Touche: 
Brian Bal~er  Molly Freeman  Stacey Krajewski  Gary Rychtanek  
Phyllis Barber  Margaret Garzelloni  Matthew Kramer  Michael Schreck  
Tom Blatz  Chris Graves  Jon Lindberg  Todd Sellers  
Christopher Boyle  Rita Hajjar  Charles McEnery  Vince Smith  
Peter Connolly  Mike Halloran  Kurt Merschman  Patricia Sullivan  
Jane Daly  Matthew Janzaruk  Mike Murray  Paul Weis  
David DiFranco  John Kilcoyne  Shirley Nagy  
Doug Duncan  Andrew Kindred  David Owings  
Mike Fox  Mark Kost  Christopher Pardi  

The above professionals are joining our of/ices in Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Cincinnatti, Columbus, Denver, Detroit, Grand Rapids, Indianapolis, Los Angeles, Memphis, Minneapolis, New York, Omaha, Phoenix, Pittsburgh, Springfield and St Louis. 
We will be on campus: 

Deloitte&
Monday, October 2, 1995. Reception /or Interviewing Students The Monogram Room (JACC), 7.·00-9:00PM 


ToucheLLP 
Tuesday, October 3, 1995 
Campus Interviews /or full-time positions. 

Stop by Career and Placement Services /or sign-up in/ormation. Accounting, Tax, and Consulting Services 
We Listen. We Deliver 
Deloitte Touche T ohmatsu lntemational 
Deloitte &Touche is an equal opportunity finn. We recruit, employ, train, compensate, and promote without regard. to race, creed, color, national origin, a¢e, sex, veteran status, or handicaps. 

... .......... .......--------------~--~~--~--~--~-~-----------~------------~----­
Friday, September 22, 1995 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Judge grants delay in scandal sentencing 
Associated Press 
CIIICAGO 
Hep. Mel Heynolds' sentenc­ing for sexual misconduct was postponed until Sept. 28 to al­low the defense more time to gather character witnesses to present at the hearing. 
U.S. District Judge Fred Suria granted the defense motion to delay sentencing, which had been scheduled Friday, over the objections of prosecutors. 
"We were ready to go. We told the judge that," said Andy Knott, spokesman for the Cook County state's attorney. "We vigorously objected to the con­tinuance." 
Reynolds, 43, was convicted Aug. 22 of having sex with a campaign volunteer when she was 16 and 17 years old. 

PAN-AFRICAN CULTURAL CENTER 
What ...m

Jmu lu~u naru 'l 
Don 't feel left out ... 
JOIN IN THE NEWEST CULTURAL EXCITEMENT IN TOWN You can learn SWAHILI right here In South Bend .... 
SH'ahili is the one single language widely spoken in East and Central Africa 
The Pan-African Cultural Center, in cooperation with the South Bend Community School Corporation and the South Bend Heritage Foundation, is offering Swahili basics course ! 
Venue·  Charles Martin Youth Center, 802 Lincoln Way West  
Dales:  Wednesday, September 27, 1995-Wednesday, December 13, 1995  
Time:  6:00-7:30 PM  
negistration:  Wednesday, September 27, 1995: 6:00-8:00 PM  
Fees:  negistration: $20.00; Course: S40.00  
Professor:  Dr. Lukuba, from Tanzania  

You can register on site or by calling Pan-African Cultural Center: 273-1843 

Dole appoints Quayle to PAC 
By}OHNKING 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
In a dramatic overture to so­cial conservatives, GOP presi­dential front-runner Bob Dole announced Thursd that Dan Quayle would take charge of a political committee Dole has used to support Republican candidates for nearly two decades. 
In becom­ing chairman of Campaign America, the former vice presi­dent did not endorse Dole's presidential campaign. But Dole aides predicted the association would solidify Dole's standing with Christian conservatives, an important Republican primary constituency. 


"I can think of no American who is better qualified to lead the battle for Republican victo­ries in the vital elections that lie ahead," Dole, the Senate ma­jority leader, said in a state­ment. "Dan Quayle has been a trailblazer for issues and ideas that sparked the Republican revolution of 1994. At the helm of Campaign America, he is sure to keep up that fight." 
Quayle was on the verge of entering the 1996 presidential race himself earlier this year, but abruptly changed his plans 
EARN CASH by DONATING 
You could earn: 

$30°0 atter your first plasma donation! 
$15°0  if you donate alone  
+$ 5°0  if you show college 1.0. (first visit)  
+$1 000  per person if you recru~ someone and they donate  

$30°0 TOTAL! Help Us Save Lives 

Must be 18 years old; proof of current address with photo I. D. 
COME TO: AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL 515 LINCOLNWAY WEST SOUTH BEND, IN 46601-1117 

HOURS: T-F: 9--6 SAT: 8-5 
234-6010 
after assessing the daunting fund-raising and organizational hurdles. He later ruled out run­ning for Indiana governor next year but said he would like to seek the presidency down the road. 
Quayle has been looking for a way to raise his political profile, and should get the opportunity through Campaign America. Dole had used the political ac­tion committee to bankroll his travels on behalf of GOP candi­dates while expanding his own political network. 
Quayle also has been inter­ested in finding a way to help Dole short of an outright en­dorsement, which he considers premature, according to a close political adviser who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
Tapping Quayle to lead the PAC is similar to an overture Dole made to economic conser­vatives earlier this year in ar­ranging for Jack Kemp, the for­mer congressman and housing secretary, to be named chair­man of a Republican commis­sion studying proposals for dra­matic tax reform. 
"Senator Dole is clearly look­ing for lots of ways to send messages to the conservative base of the party," said Gary Bauer, a former Reagan White House aide who runs the Fam­ily Research Council, a social conservative group. "I think the biggest impact will be a sense that Dole is for real in his more conservative stance, that he is putting a great deal of money where his mouth is." 
Since the 1987-88 cycle, Dole has used Campaign America to contribute more than $2 million to scores of state, local and fed­eral Republican candidates. 

page 10 The Observer • NEWS Friday, September 22, 1995 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
Dame." But does the administration really believe this? 
At times, the Faculty Senate and the administration have worked well together, accord­ing to Professor Paul Conway, a 28-year veteran and former five-time chair of the Senate. 
"At many times, there's been an adversarial role, but at other times we got along very well," Conway said. 
Throughout the discussion of policies of sexual harassment and gender inclusive language during one of his terms as chair, "the administration asked for us to lead the way and forward it on to the Academic Council," he said. 
.This wa~ one instance when the administration and the Senate truly cooperated, ac­cording to Conway. 
But relations have not always been so friendly. One situation in which the relationship be­tween the Senate and adminis­tration has been ~adversarial" occurred in the Spring of 1992, when the Senate threatened to pass a vote of "no confidence" in President Edward Malloy-a situation that resulted in the re­vision of the Academic Council. 
"It stemmed from his 
(Malloy's) rejection of a pro-
Have some­thing to say? Use Observer classifieds. 
CINEMA~K THFATRFS 

•lord 2:00, 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 
•A 
Kid In King Arthurs(PG) 1:20, 3:30, 5:35, 7:40 

•The 
Postman (PG) 1:45,4:15,7:10,9:40 


•A Walk In The Clouds(PG13) 1:00, 3:20, 5:40, 7:55, 10:10 
•Babe (G) 1:05, 3:10, 5:15,7:20,9:20 •The Babysitters Club(PG) 1:30, 3:35, 5:25 •Under Siege 2(R) 10:00 •Braveheart DTS(R) 1:15, 5:00, 9:00 •Ciueless(PG-13) 7:05, 9:35 •Unstrung Heros(PG)*1:10, 3:20, 5:40, 7:45, 
9:55 •Na'tllampoons Sr. Trip(R) 12:55, 3:05, 5:10, 7:35, 9:45 •Something to Talk About(R)1:20, 3:30, 5:45, 8:00, 10:15 
.,,_ 

S17:J ALL SEAf51l~~OflE 6Pt.1
*riO PASSb · SUPHl~AI'~A'i ACCEPTED 





FREE 
PHONE CALLs 
An Exaggeration? 
Not ifyou're spending more than 25 bucks a month talking to people in Elkhart, Goshen, Bristol, Dunlap, Middlebury and Wakarusa areas. Why pay high long distance charges when you can pay a low flat monthly fee? You can call as often as you want and talk as long as you wish for only $23.00 per month. No special lines or installation needed. We can start your service today! 
1-800-360-4990 
posal to reconstruct the Aca­demic Council," Conway said. Despite the fact that the Council passed the proposal by a vote of 22 to 12, Malloy rejected the proposal, which, according to Conway, stirred the Senate to threaten his censure. 
However, due to the discus­sion at a meeting now labeled the "April Accords," an agree­ment was reached, and the vote of "no confidence" was not passed. 
One agreement that came as a result of the Accords was Malloy's decision not to con­struct a committee that might have dissolved the Senate, Conway said. 
In listing "issues on the hori­zon" that he said were signifi­cant in the Senate's establish­ing its voice at Notre Dame, current Senate Chair Father Richard McBrien included the Senate's threat of passing the "no confidence" resolution and its related events. 
What came as a result of the clash between the Senate and the administration prior to the April Accords helped "to in­clude the faculty more in the governance of Notre Dame," according to McBrien, now in his third year as Chair of the Faculty Senate. 
"The principle result of the April Accords," McBrien said, was that "ten elected faculty members who now serve on the Provost Advisory Committee contribute academic planning and to the academic integrity of the University." 
"The voice of the faculty was articulated in the Senate" dur­ing the April Accords, O'Meara agreed, because, as a result of the Accords, ten faculty mem­bers were elected to be on Provost's Advisory Committee, which O'Meara said is "a very significant body for promotion." 
Citing another example of the Senate working with the admin­istration to efficiently formulate faculty opinion, O'Meara said the Senate worked with the tenure system and dealt with "the need for better salaries and benefits." 
"It took some time until that was gelled together, but we moved forward with it, and Notre Dame is now one of the 25 best-paid schools in the country," O'Meara said. . 

Sheehan offered his view of the responsibility of the Faculty Senate in working with the administration in the gover­nance of the University. 
The role of the Senate in­cludes the question of advice and consent, according to Sheehan. 
"Whether the administration wants it or not, the Senate gives it," Sheehan said. 
"It's not always clear whether or not the administration wants input," Sheehan said, citing the example of the administration's decision not to recognize Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College {GLND/SMC) and the Senate's passing a resolution supporting recognition of GLND/SMC. "But all 'stakeholders' should have some voice in the administra­tion of the University." 
"The academic constituency is the University," Sheehan said, and the Senate has "an increasing role to play" in "bringing to fore" the concerns of the constituency and not let­ting these interests "get lost in the shuffie." 
McNamara plans trip to Vietnam 
Associated Press 
HANOI, Vietnam 
Former Defense Secretary Robert McNamara, who re­cently said he had been "terri­bly wrong" to support the Vietnam War, will visit Vietnam next month for the first time since the war. 
McNamara will join a group sponsored by the New York­based Council on Foreign Relations, a Foreign Ministry spokeswoman said Thursday. 
As defense secretary for Presidents Kennedy and John­son, McNamara helped formu­late U.S. policy toward Vietnam and strongly advocat­ed the American troop buildup. His planned trip is one more sign of the dramatic improvement in relations between the former enemies, who established diplomatic relations last month. 

Come join us for an autograph session with Kevin Coyne author of: 
"Domers -A Year at Notre Dame" 
Mr. Coyne will be available at the Notre Dame Bookstore Saturday Sept. 23 from 8 am to 10:45 am, after the football game, and on Monday 9125 from 12 pm to 1:30pm. 
"Coyne captures the spirit and the tradition of this unique institution and penetrates the glow of the golden dome with an objective look at the academic, political, and social life of its people." -KIRKUS REVIEWS 
The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
"on the campus " Open Monday thru Saturday from 9 am to 5 pm Special hours football weekends: Friday 9 am -7pm & Saturday 8 am -7pm 
\.. ~
L--....:--....:..---------------··-·------.. 

Friday, September 22, 1995 The Observer • CONGRESSIONAL UPDATE page 11 
Congress battles over proposed cuts to Medicare 
By DAVID ESPO but we're going to go down Associated Press fighting," vowed House Minor­ity Leader Dick Gephardt, D­
WASHINGTON Mo. With Democrats vowing a To underscore their determi­fight to the end, House Republi­nation to resist, Democrats 

can sketched a future for Medi­vowed to hold a hearing Friday ••• • PREMIUMS: The current $46.10 care on Thursday that blends on the lawn outside the Capitol monthly premium for Medicare Part cost controls on doctors and to compete with the formal ses­
B would rise to between $90 and $93 by 2002. Under current law,

hospitals with higher premiums sion held indoors by Repub­
that premium would climb to $60

for senior citizens and sweeten­licans. 
by 2002, and under a White House 

ers to nudge them into cheaper Democrats were also frus­
plan it would increase to nearly

alternatives. trated Thursday as Republicans 
•. $83.

"No one should be forced to in the House Commerce Com­
·· • MEDISAVE: Private insurance

choose, but everyone should mittee rejected a series of pro­
companies allowed to charge

have the right to choose" an al­posals to soften legislation to 
deductibles as high as $10,000 to 

ternative to the 30-year-old fee­turn health care for the poor seniors who switch to a for-service coverage, House over to the states. catastrophic-only Medicare plan. Speaker Newt Gingrich said, providing partial details of a The committee was expected plan intended to achieve $270 to finish work on the Medicaid expected to be voted on in com­billion in savings over seven bill Friday. It would cut the mittee in the next few days. years. program's growth rate in half They offered no accounting 
Democrats said the changes and is intended to save $182 on how the $270 billion would 
were designed to finance GOP billion over seven years. be achieved -how much from tax cuts for the rich -not to Despite a nationally televised higher premiums on senior citi­shore up the solvency of the news conference on Medicare, 
zens; how much from curbing Medicare system, as Republi­the GOP stopped well short of the rate of increase in pay­cans contended. "We may lose, providing full details of a plan ments to doctors and hospitals; 


Real World 
Real WOr 
financial or emotional mistakes that you will surely make ifyou do not attend this seminar. · 
Please join us at the Jamison Inn, Limited seating, Phone 273-4886 for reservations. 

INTER-FAITH CAMPUS BIBLE STUDY Now In Session 
Every Tuesday Evening One Hour, 7:00 -8:00 p.m. 
The Conference Room of Campus Ministry Office Badin Hall 
Fr. AI D'Alonzo, CSC-Director 
Bring your own Bible or one will be provided. 

1-
For more information, call 631-5242 or 631-5955. 
0MPUS 
ALL STUDENTS ARE WELCOME!
MINISTRY 
If you see news happening, call The Observer at 1-4543. 
.... 






O.c't£1:~~

South Bend, Indiana 46635 • (219)272-6702 
Chtnese, Vietnamese, & American Food Lunch 11 :OOa.m.-3:00p.m. Dinner menu will be served after 3:00p.m. 
15 Years or Service Award The Chamber or Commerce St. Joseph County 
#Enjoy a unique experience inOriental Dining" 
• 
Fresh Ingredients 

• 
Lunch Specials starting at $3.50 


includes: egg roll, soup and tea 
•Dinners 
starting at $5 

• 
Private Dining Booths 

•Custom 
cooking with no MSG 

• 
Vegetarian Menu 

•1 
5 Years of Service Award 


For Reservations & Carry Out Call: 
272-6702 

For Dine-In Delivery Call: 
272-2328 

Frdoy II AY-101'11 Sl-lf'II.IOPY 


• CHOICE OF PLANS: The elderly allowed to switch between HMOs, medical savings accounts and fee-for-service every 30 days for the next two years. But after that, they would have to stick with the plan they chose for a full 12 months. 
II MALPRACTICE: Malpractice lawsuit awards limited to a maximum of $250,000 for punitive damages and $250,000 for pain and suffering. 
and how much from a "look­back" series of controls that would kick in if the other changes failed to produce the desired savings. 
Officials said the Congres­sional Budget Office, the arbiter of these issues, was estimating lower savings than the Republi­ger the so-called "look­back" provisions. 
At the same time they looked to doctors and hos­pitals for much of the sav­ings, Republicans offered provisions long sought by these groups, including limitations on medical mal­practice damage awards and relaxation of certain antitrust provisions. 

Said White House Chief of Staff Leon Panetta, "We're just dealing with another press release today. 
We're seeing no specifics in terms of numbers, ... no specif­ic policies outlined ... and I think they're continuing to hide the tough policy decisions from the American people." 
l:'r--"VT':TT~ . I~ ,.,... 
page 12 The Observer • PAID .ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 22, 1995 

Saturday Vigil Masses 
Basilica 30 minutes after game Approximately 4:00p.m. 

Stepan Center 45 minutes after game Approximately 4:15p.m. 

Dear AltJinni & Friends, 
The staff of Campus Ministry extends an invitation for you to come together and celebrate the Eucharist while on campus this weekend. 
Twenty-fifth Sunday in Ordinary Time University of Texas Football Weekend September 23 and 24, 1995 
Sunday Masses 

Basilica 8:00, 10:00 & 11:45 am Sacred Heart Parish Crypt 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 
9:30 & 11:00 am

0MPUS 
MINISTRY 

-----------------.----~~~--------------------.. --­
Friday, September 22, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 13 
-! 
Police arrest suspect in toddler shooting Mongolian 
By DINOS LAMBROPOULOS was searched early Thursday. their Jives." Monday and decide whether t~ Associated Press He was booked for investigation The toddler, Stephanie file charges, district attorney's 
crash kills 
of murder and attempted mur­Kuhen, was one of six people in spokesman Sandi Gibbons said. 
LOS ANGELES der and held without bail. a Ford Thunderbird early Sun­"Mr. Caldera is viewed in the A paroled killer was arrested Authorities implored the pub­day when driver Tim Stone community as one of the most 

35 people
Thursday in the slaying of a 3-lic to overcome fears of Calder­strayed onto the dead-end vicious and vile members of the year-old girl who was shot a's street gang, the Avenues, street in the Cypress Park Avenues gang," Williams said. Aasociated Press when the car she was riding in and help identify three or four neighborhood northeast of "Hopefully, he won't be able to took a wrong turn onto a dead­other young men believed in­downtown. Unprovoked, sus­negotiate his way down to a ULAN BATOR, Mongolia end known as the "Avenue of volved. pected gang members encircled manslaughter and parole this An airliner crashed in north­the Assassins." "This is intolerable," said the car and opened fire before time." ern Mongolia on Thursday, 
Vincent Caldera, 23, was ar­Mayor Richard Riordan. Stone got it turned around and Caldera served three years killing all but one of the 35 rested late Wednesday and his "Angelenos must simply not drove ofT. for manslaughter on a plea people aboard, news reports home near the shooting scene accept living in fear as part of Stone and Stephanie's broth­bargain in another murder, said. 
er, 2-year-old Joseph, were Williams said. The Antonov-24 plane, be­wounded. Joseph was released He described Caldera as a longing to Mongolia's MIAT from a hospital Wednesday "soldier" in the Mexican Mafia, Airlines, crashed on a flightwith a leg wound. a far-flung, prison-based gang, from the capital Ulan Bator to ''I'm moving -period," said as well as a street gang mem­the town of Moron about 300
JUST ONE MORE 
Stephanie's mother, 26-year­ber. miles to the northwest. old Robynn Kuhen, who was in Along Isabel Drive, where Th'irty-four people were
REASON TO COME TO 
the car but wasn't injured. She Stephanie was shot and killed, and the only survivor is a former resident of Caldera Jives, graffiti written in was a passenger who sustained Evansville, Ind. Spanish marks the territory as serious injuries, Chinese and Caldera was believed to be the "Avenue of the Assassins." Mongolian news reports said. one of those who had fired Caldera's girlfriend, 17 -year­The crash occurred about shots, Police Chief Willie old Nora Carrillo, denied he noon in the town of Duurengi­
~TEAK 


Williams said. Prosecutors had anything to do with the inam, Chinese's official Xinhua 
On Notre Dame home footbal 

Lafayette Square Townhomes 
++ Newly remodeled ++ 
• 
Four and Five Bedroom Townhomes 

• 
New Carpets and Tile Floors 

• 
Newly Painted 

• 
Washer and Dryers 

• 
Dishwashers 



232-8256 
• 
Central Air Conditioning 

• 
ADT Security Systems 


-


were to review the case shooting.
game weekends: 
OUTDOOR PAVILION 
Enjoy refreshments and watch other games on the BIG SCREEN TV while you wait for your table in our lighted pavilion. 

Pavillion Hours: 3:00p.m. to midnight on Fri. and Sat. Steak &Ale Restaurant 2554 US 31 North* South Bend, IN 46637* 219/277-3766 
ne\vs agency reported. 
No further details were im­mediately available from the remote region. 
The Mongolian government formed a commission to inves­tigate the crash. 
The Soviet-made An-24, a twin-turboprop plane, went out of production in 1978. The age of the plane that crashed was not known. 
Please Recycle 
The Observer 

Now leasing '96-'97 School Year Call Matteo Enterprises 
page 14 The Observer • NEWS Friday, September 22, 1995 
Judge rules Hospital iD1ple01ents death review-policy 
euthanasia not an issue 
Associated Press 
DUBLIN, Ireland 
A woman who was comatose for 23 years has died two months after the Supreme Court, in a landmark judg­ment, said her feeding tube could be removed. 
The judgment split opinions among doctors and provoked national debate on whether this overwhelmingly Roman Catholic nation has moved closer toward allowing eu­thanasia. 
The 45-year-old woman, whose identity is protected by court order, died Wednesday, members of her family said Thursday. She had been in coma after suffering three heart attacks and severe bra~ damage while under general anesthetic for minor surgery when she was 22. 
Earlier this month, she was transferred from the hospital, where she had been fed through a stomach tube, to a private facility, news reports said. News reports said hospi= tal staff were in tears when the woman left. It was unclear when the tube was removed. 
In a 4-1 vote July 27, the Supreme Court upheld a lower cJ)urt de.c.ision granting the family permission to stop the feeding. Chief Justice Liam Hamilton said euthanasia was not an issue in the case, argu­ing that the woman would die from her 1972 injuries, not from removing the feeding tube. 
We're 
At 

We care. From the day you move in, our friendly, profes­sional staff will give you great service. Great location, great service, great price ...Hickory Village has what you need. Come by and see for yourself! 
Efficiencies from $290 1-Bedrooms from $305 2-Bedrooms from $375 
24-hour Emergency Maintenance Service Attentive Staff • Cable TV Available Free Aerobics Classes Laundry Room in Every Building Acres of Rolling Lawns and Trees Pool, Sundeck &Clubhouse Close to Great Shopping Air Conditioning 

r+-CLEVELAND 

Call or stop by today and y,e'll show you how great living at Hickory Village can be. 
272-1880 
+llCKORl] 
DlLLA~EfJ 
Mon.-Fri. 8·6, Sat. 10-4 & Sun. 12-4 
By KATE WILTROUT 
.1\fsociated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Orville Lynn Majors wasn't the only loser during the state Board of Nursing hearings that resulted in a continuing sus­pension of his license. Vermil­lion County Hospital also came in for criticism for its sluggish response to staff concerns about an increasing death rate. 
"I find it incredulous that staff had to go to management with this problem," board member Kay Leach said on Wednesday before the panel voted S-2 to extend the tempo­rary suspension of Majors' license. 
The hospital suspended Ma­jors in March after a fellow nurse notified administrators that he had been present dur­ing 130 of 147 deaths in the intensive care unit over a 22­month period. The unit's death rate more than tripled in that time. 
One of Majors' co-workers testified during the hearings that she expressed concerns about the increasing death rate as early as October 1993 but that hospital administrators did not act on her concerns. 
"We got the same answer each time: There's a death re­view committee, if there's any­thing the matter it will fall out in the death review commit­tee," said Marilyn Alexander, who started keeping a personal record of deaths while she worked weekends with Majors in the ICU. 

But according to the Indiana State Department of Health, that death review committee didn't do its job. 
"The problem at Vermillion County, whether what hap­pened there was Orville Lynn Majors or not, was this was a hospital that had absolutely no system in place to tell us what was going on. Vermillion County Hospital didn't have a clue," Art Logsdon, assistant state health commissioner for consumer health services, said Thursday. · · 
Logsdon's organization fined the hospital $80,000 in April for eight procedural and record­keeping violations -the first time the state has done so. 
Those violations included: 
-The hospital failed to report their suspicion or knowl­edge of excessively high deaths to the health department. 
-An administrator failed to take action on a suspicion over an increase in cardiac arrests. 
-A registered nurse without proper criteria reviewed the death charts and two doctors on the death review committee did not attend any of the 1994 meetings. 
The hospital is appealing the violations and the fmes, but had to present a corrective plan and faces monthly visits from state officials. Their new death re­view policy requires that four different groups of staff and administrators survey all the death charts. 

nly at Perkins® Fa1nily Restaurants can you enjoy all of your breakfast, lunch and dinner favorites anytin1e of the day. Like our fluffy 
buttern1ilk pancakes, scrutnptious edible bread bowl salads, pre1niun1 three-egg omelettes, crean1y chicken pot pies and n1ore. All available when you're hungry. Morning. Noon. Or night. 




"Consider the cost of room and board for the next several years. Now, consider $298* per month at North Shore Club" 
A great investment for students, parents and alumni. 
--------------------~---~----------~-~----­


Friday, September 22, 1995 
The Observer • NEWS 

Oakland paper publishes bomber text 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO 
The Oakland Tribune decided to publish the full text of the Unabomber's manifesto today because of the bomber's possi­ble connection to the area. 
"This is a local story -the Unabomber may live and work in this area, and much of the investigation is in the East 

Lake to evaluate 
progress in Haiti 

SUND Y, OCI'OBER 1 
& 
By SONYA ROSS 

SUNDAY, OCI'OBER 8 
Associated Press 

• MUST HAVE RIDDEN A HORSE AT LEAST ONCE • 
WASHINGTON

• TRANSPORTATION PROVIDED • 
National security adviser Anthony Lake will make a one-day visit to Haiti on

r ~·$15.fUiN· r ~ 
Friday, one year after American-led troops entered the nation to return President 

BUS DEPARTS RETURN 
Jean-Bertrand Aristide to LIBRARY CIRCLE B.lJlE TO CAMPUS 
power. 10/1 10:15 11:00 12:30 
Lake will meet with Aristide 10/1 11:45 12:30 2:00 
and with United Nations representative Ibrahim

10/8 10::15 11:00 1:30 
' Brahimi in an effort to assess

10/8 12:15 1:00 2:30 
the progress of democracy in REGISTER & PAY IN ADVANCE 
the past year, said spokesman MAXIMUM NUMBER PER RIDE IS 5 
David Johnson. H>n MONE INFO CALL NECSI'ONTS.H6.l1-61flfl 
Anthont~ Travel 
"The Official Trauel Service of Notre Dame" 
Bay," said Dave Burgin, editor could lead to the Unabomber's in chief of the Alameda News­apprehension," he said. paper Group, the paper's par­The Tribune's decision came ent company. as newsstands around the San 
Several of the Unabomber's Francisco Bay area reported a letters and bombs were mailed deluge of requests for Tues­from Oakland, and bombs have day's Washington Post, which exploded in neighboring Berke­carried the 35,000-word manu­ley, Burgin noted. script in an agreement with 
"And there is always a The New York Times. chance that publishing the For today's edition, the Tri­treatise for Bay Area readers bune printed an extra 10,000 

•Airline, 
Amtrak, United Limo Tickets 

•Packages 
to Ireland for the ND vs. Navy game in 1996 

•Spring 
Break Packages to cancun, jamaica and other Locations 

• 
Discounts on International Travel for ND Faculty, Staff & Students 


Lafortune Student Center • Hours: Monday-Friday 8-5 • 631-7080 
• 
Just minutes from Notre Dame 

• 
Vacation home for game weekends 

• 
No exterior maintenance 

• 
Beautiful waterfront settings 



Fumished models on display Thursday through Monday 1-5 I~M. or b~ appointnwnt 
for more information 

copies of its normal 90,000-pa­per run, with the separate, eight-page supplement tucked inside. Ironically, the newspa­per got the Unabomber's viru­lent condemnation of technolo­gy off the Internet, Burgin said. 
He emphasized that the Tri­bune has had no contacts from the Unabomber or law en­forcement officials asking for publication. 
He said Lake will receive up­dates on efforts to establish economic development, hold national elections and train Haiti's national police force. He is being accompanied by officials from the State Department, Defense Department and the Agency for International Development. 
Lake "thought it a good op­portunity, more than a year after Aristide's return, to assess progress," Johnson said. "We believe it is signifi­cant." 
Lake will return to Washing­ton on Saturday. 
-

page 15 
French fail to rescue two pilots 
Associated Press 
PARIS 
France on Thursday reported three failed attempts with NATO this month to rescue two French pilots shot down by Serb rebels in Bosnia during the recent NATO bombing campaign. 
NBC Nightly News, mean­while, reported Thursday that two American soldiers were wounded in the last of the at­tempts after landing some­where near Pale, the Serb stronghold near Sarajevo, on Sept. 7. 
The two French fliers, whose Mirage 2000 was downed Aug. 30 near Pale, were reported in Serb hands, which could make them Serb bargaining chips in an overall peace deal. 
The three rescue attempts were made by helicopter and failed the first two times be­cause of bad weather, Defense Minister Charles Millon told a closed-door Senate foreign af­fairs panel meeting on Wednesday. 
The third was abandoned be­cause the helicopter came un­der heavy Serb gunfire, Millon said during the meeting, whose details were released Thursday. 
Since the rescue attempts, the pilots are in Serb hands and efforts for their release were "in the overall peace plan," Millon said. 
France announced this week that it was in contact with the International Committee of the Red Cross to seek the pilots' release. 
NBC said the team of Ameri­can and French commandos came under heavy automatic weapons fire and the two Americans were hit. The com­mandos fought their way back to their helicopters and returned to their base. 


Call {219) 232-2002 
• Condominiums and townhomes as low as $49,900 

-----~ ~----------~­

VIEWPOINT 
page 16 Friday, September 22, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
John Lucas 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Elizabeth Regan Joseph Riley 
NewJJ Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor ........•......... Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ..................... .}en Mackowiak Sports Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager ................. .Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor .......••................ Krista Nannery Systems Manager ....................•....... Sean Galtavan Photo Ed.itor .................................. Rob Finch Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Controlter ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the studentS of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It docs not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor /Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-=Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 


• LETTER TO THE EDiTOR 

What has happened to ND? 
Dear Editor: 
am writing this from the outside. I am not anl alumnus of the University of Notre Dame, just a fan since I was only nine years old. That's a long time to love anything, let alone a University which I never even saw until I was 33 years old. I suppose it gives me no rights to anything except some opinions and it is these 
which I need to express. 
After the football Northwestern I read the Chicago newspapers' accounts of the game and in one of the papers there were quotes from inter­views with Notre Dame stu­dents. One expressed the determination not to attend another football game. Others expressed the opin­ion that they expected a National Championship at least every four years so that each class could say they attended the school during a national champi­onship year. 
I was shocked at how shallow some of these stu­dents were and how seem­ingly spoiled they are. This emphasis on winning and 
team's loss to 

College. The little school in the Midwest with the big heart. We middle class kids whose fathers worked in refineries loved the school we never saw. It represented us. Simple, hard-working, strong of faith. 
Now all that seems to have changed. Time and the school I once knew have obviously passed me by. Notre Dame is now the school for the wealthy and privileged. It is the school whEJre the wealthy family sends its children in order to experience the thrill of a National Championship foot­
ball season. Is winning the only thing that is relevant now? Does

'Notre Dame is now 
this somehow round out the

the school for the 
image that the modern student wealthy and privileged. has of himself or herself as the winning class? ·
It is the school where 
l AThat has happened to Notrethe wealthy family V V Dame? It has happened slowly and imperceptibly until
sends its children in 
suddenly, now, it has become all order to experience the too obvious that this is the school of perfection. It is the
thrill of a National 
school that does not allow less

Championship football 
than perfection. It is too much season. Is winning the for the average human being or the average athlete to live up to.
only thing that is rele­
How fortunate each student is vant now?' to have the opportunity to attend a school with such a rich tradi­
on championships every four years. This deter­mination not to attend another game because one team's loss to an improving team by two points. 
It is my understanding that when the founders of Notre Dame came to this country it was their intent to give a solid and Catholic education to the youth in this pioneer territory of Northern Indiana. Most of the students and their parents could not afford the small tuition. Some worked and other parents bartered work or live stock in turn for an education for their children. l AThen Knute Rockne was a student, Notre 
V V Dame was a college for the middle class. This was not a rich man's school or a place for the spoiled to luxuriate. 
When I was a kid it was a place we never saw, just heard about. It was the Catholic 

tion. A tradition of rising up from the hard times, from failure, from set backs and achieving. Seems like some who attend the university want instant success with no blood, no sweat, no defeat and no failure as part of that success. Life isn't like that of course. Perhaps that will be the greatest learn­ing experience of all for these students. 
The founders of Notre Dame all understood that. Setbacks never destroyed their faith or their zeal. I hope that the students of today learn that lesson from those that went before them. I also hope that the majority of the stu­dents have the maturity and the human decen­cy to stand behind those students who put it on the line on the fields of play, no matter if they win or not. 
JIM KUBALEWSKI 
Joliet, Ill . 

•  000NESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  
HOtU MANY57EP5 YOU YOU M/95/NG N&WME 7H&R&?' THR£&?' TO CO lH& FOUR."? I MA7HFOR. YaH I  ANANNY:S f!e.9TF-1</twl?! NOT!C&HW QU!8TIT/5? \  

• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Jam a lover and have not found my thing to love." 
-Sherwood Anderson 
VIEWPOINT

Friday, September 22, 1995 page 17 
• I AM NOT APOTTED PLANT 
Dealing in pornography at ND 
T
he other day, a friend of mine started a conversa­tion with what has become my favorite line. "Hey Chuck, here's something you should write about," she said, "did you know that Notre Dame deals porn?" Yeah, right, I thought. ND -the school that enforces parietals, and tries to promote "chastity" .,..-deals porn? 
Well, it involves computers, so it's a little compli­cated; but there can be no doubt about it. For what­ever reason, this university deals in porn. 
Let me start with a slight disclaimer. I remember those days of my youth, laughing at my parents' in­ability to program a VCR. And only five or six years ago, I was on the cutting edge. I'm slipping big time. My knowledge of "The Net" is minimal at best. This article is based on a bit of research, as well as information provided by persons 
I don't want to over-dramatize this. It's impossible to prevent someone with any kind of computer knowledge from getting this kind of information, but why in the world would Notre Dame want to make it easier for them? 
Aside from the legal liability -which caused Carnegie Mellon University to get rid of the news­groups I'm talking about -I hardly need to point out how hypocritical this is. We don't subscribe to the homosexual newsgroups, but we can't stop there, can we? 
To me, it's clear why Christians (and others) find pornography morally offensive. It often victimizes women and children; it certainly does not encourage chastity or self-restraint; it fosters a notion of selfish, voyeuristic consumerism which extends even to sex. 
F
or Christians especially -since 


who will remain anonymous to we, unlike the world's other protect their credit card accounts great religions, base our faith on from hackers. love -porn is wrong because it 
It probably comes as no sur­blasphemes against, and deni­prise to anyone that the Internet grates, human love within mar­is full of dirty pictures (as well as riage. Even if it shouldn't be illegal, 
Charles Roth dirty stories, dirty sounds, and it is at least immoral. · dirty movies). I take it for grant-So should we be "outraged" by ed that any ND student desperate this? Perhaps. But I think I can enough to want it can get smut imagine how this happened. Some 
from the Internet easily enough. Set that to one side. The university can't do anything about that. 
What I'm talking about here are "newsgroups." As I will explain below, Notre Dame intentionally sub­scribes to a host of graphic newsgroups, on subjects ranging from bestiality to bondage to (sorry if this of­fends anyone) Asian women. Notre Dame intentionally does not subscribe to newsgroups on homosexuality, etc. 
H
What does it mean to "subscribe" to a newsgroup? When ND subscribes to porno newsgroups, it becomes easier for the geeks who want to look at this stuff to get their dirty little paws on it. And lest there be any confusion about the term "newsgroups" -this stuff isn't just text ere's the way it works. Notre Dame subscribes to a worldwide conferencing system called, "USENET." USENET has about 6000 groups, of which Notre Dame carries about 3500. To quote "The Internet Companion", by Tracy LaQuey, "[e]ach site can pick which newsgroups it wants to 'carry' or let its users participate in. Why wouldn't a site want to provide every single newsgroup? ... [A] very common reason is that some of the newsgroups deal with explicit sub­jects which may or may not be appropriate to carry." 
In other words, somebody here at Notre Dame makes the decision whether or not to subscribe to particular newsgroups . 
nervous, pale-faced guy with no life, working in the Office of University Computing (I'm imagining here) decided to subscribe us to a few groups that made him feel jolly. 
He probably figured that no one would ever trace it to him. And I get the distinct impression that he didn't care a great deal about the University's policy of encouraging chastity (let alone chaste thoughts). 
To me this is simply another chapter in the ongoing saga of Notre Dame trying to maintain institutional integrity in the midst of a society that does not share the values that Notre Dame tries to espouse. 
What might seem like rank hypocrisy is simply a reflection of the failure of ND's ideals to penetrate down through this school's institutional structure. This explanation might seem strange, but it accounts for the Counseling Center hosting GLND/SMC for years, and it accounts for Dining Services decision to close down the dining halls over Fall and Spring Break, even though many students without the big bucks will stay around campus. 
When the realities of ND conflict with its high ideals -and they will, from time to time -it's up to all of us (students, staff, faculty, alumni) to call the adminis­tration's attention to that fact. Call me an idealist, but I think that when they realize it, they will do something about it. 
Charles Roth is a third year law student, 

• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Lecturer's link of theism to Darwinism concerns professor 
Dear Editor: 
P
hilip Johnson opened his campus lec­ture on Darwinism on Sept. 18 with the claim that the neo-Darwinian theory of evolution is incompatible with theism, that is, with belief in a Creator. 
"In suppott of this highly controversial assertion, he called in testimony some of the most celebrated popular writers on biology, Richard Dawkins and Stephen Gould, as well as the philosopher, Daniel Dennett. In their writings, Johnson noted, they can find no room in the mechanical processes of Darwinian evo­lution for the action of a Creator and thus they link Darwinism firmly with the atheism they also espouse. 
In the remainder of his lecture, Johnson went on to point out what he saw as shortcomings in neo-Darwinian theory. As witnesses for the prosecution, he called on various biologists, like Niles Eldredge, who have challenged one or another tenet of the theory (though they themselves would still describe their overall views as Darwinist). Johnson was willing to allow that small-scale evolution, like that of the beaks of finch­es in a changing environment, has been shown to occur. But bat-like creatures, he claimed, could never over the course of time develop wings by gradual stages. D.arwinian attempts to explain such changes he dismissed as "just-so" sto­ries, incapable of real proof. 
My concern here is not with the merits or defects of the neo-Darwinian account of evolution. Others can deal with these better than I can. I will limit myself to just two remarks in that regard. The cause of science is not well served by the adversarial process of putting "Darwinism on trial," as the title of Johnson's book describes. Prosecutors choose their witnesses carefully, calling only those who ~II advance their case. No attempt is made to discover merit in the defendant. Nor does the trial end with an impartial summing-up. This procedure may work in the law-court to advance justice (although one could be pardoned for a measure of doubt, in the light of current events), but it does not work to advance truth, where the com­plexities of scientific theory are involved. 
B
I could agree with Johnson that defenders of the neo-Darwinian theory quite often exaggerate its achievements, partly in response to the attacks of out­side critics like Johnson himself. But their overstatements should not be allowed to obscure the fact that the neo­Darwinian theory, whatever its lacunae, is the best scientific theory of organic development available at the present time. That this is a fact even Johnson would be forced to concede, though he would want to add that, in his eyes, the best in this case isn't very good. ut my main concern with Johnson's presentation lies elsewhere. He chal­lenged his largely student audience directly. He told them in effect that as theists they could not in good conscience embrace neo-Darwinian theory because of its atheistic implications, citing Dawkins et al. in support of the sup­posed link between Darwinism and the­ism. But why accept the word of these far from disinterested parties? Johnson presented no independent argument of his own for this link, mentioning only 
I
the suggestion that the "unintelligent" mechanical causes postulated by Darwin left no room for a Creator, exactly the line taken by Dawkins. see no merit whatever in this sugges­tion. The Creator can, and does, oper­ate through causes of all sorts, intelli­gent and unintelligent. The God who brought all things into being, even time itself, in a single act of creation can make use of chance mutations as effec­tively as laws of nature in bringing about the Divine ends. To call the processes of evolution "unintelligent" is dangerously ambiguous. They are "unin­telligent" in the sense that they do not manifest an intelligence actively at work shaping them in such a way that the out­come could be recognized as a product of design. This was the sort of intelli­gence that Darwin's predecessors had claimed to find at work in the adapta­tions everywhere present in the living world. And it was the rejection of this sort of inte1ligence, and the argument from design to the existence of God built on it, that made Darwin's theory initially so unpalatable to many religious believ­ers. But in another sense the processes of evolution are not "unintelligent" if they are the work of a Creator who actively pursues ends. The process of natural selection is no longer blind when it is recognized as God's means of bring­ing about His purposes. 
Johnson is unhappy with the atheism preached by some very visible exponents of Darwinian theory, but he ignores the multitude of working biologists who see no discrepancy between their evolution­ary science and their belief in a Creator. 

Instead of linking atheism to Darwinian theory, Johnson ought to devote his con­siderable forensic skills to challenging those authors who link Darwinism and atheism, or who make an unjustified move from a methodological naturalism which enjoins scientists to push their methods as far as they will go, to a radi­cal naturalism that would claim that matter is all there is. 
If one is an atheist, the theory of evo­lution offers a convenient way of explaining how things come to be the way they are. But the logical arrow can­not be reversed. The theory of evolution of itself cannot, in consequence, be said to entail atheism. Indeed, there is a long Christian tradition going back to St. Augustine suggesting that an omnipo­tent Creator would be likely to bring about the Creator's ends by means of natural processes akin to the growth of seeds,· instead of intervening to turn these processes into paths they would not otherwise have followed. 
ne final point. I find it ironic thatOJohnson would have urged the incompatibility of Darwinism and reli­gious belief at the very university where John Zahm C.S.C. wrote "Evolution and Dogma"(1896), the most important work in defense of the compatibility of Darwinism and Christian theology pub­lished by a Catholic author in the U.S. during those early yl;)ars of the Darwinian debate. 
ERNAN MCMULLIN Director Emeritus of Notre Dame's graduate pro· gram in Hisrory and Philosophy ofScience 

page 18 The Observer• WEEKEND Friday, September 22, 1995 

I
n honor of' the Texas game this Saturday, we 
have teamed up to try and shed some light on 
why Texans feel such strong love and devotion 
to their home state. We hope non-Texans will 
read this and understand why we are so pas­
sionate about our state, almost to the point of fa­
naticism. 
We confess that our parents were not smart enough 
to make sure we were born in Texas. But, we have 
lived there long enough to call ourselves Texans and 
we proudly display the Lone Star flag anywhere there 
is room. If you have ever traveled the Texas high­
ways, you may have noticed the bumper sticker that 
sums up our feelings, "I wasn't born in Texas but I 
got there as soon as I could." 
We have encountered numerous people who have a 
negative perception of Texans. There are some myths 
that we would like to dispel. We don't all ride our 
horses to school, nor do we all live on ranches. There 
are some cowboys who wear loud Brush popper 
shirts and crotch-hugging Wrangler jeans with belt 
buckles large enough on which to serve Thanksgiving 
turkey. There are some cowgirls who feel the need to 
wear bright pink jeans with matching western hat. 
However, most Texans do not feel the need to dress 
outrageously. You will find boots in almost every 
l;'exan's ~~oset and a Texas flag on his or her wall, 
but these are displayed with a modest pride. 
•
•
• 

-= 
·== 
E: 
filii 
~ 

Ill:: ~ 
We do take great pride in our music. Many people associate the popular coun­try music that they hear on Country music stations with Texas, but true Texas music cannot be heard on radio stations outside our state's border. Singers like Jerry Jeff Walker, Robert Earl Keen, and Townes Van Zandt can only be heard in old dance halls across Texas. These trou­badours sing about the Hill country or about Texas' own Shiner Bock beer and never about their "Achey Breaky Heart." They put their music out on their own record labels so they won't have to compromise their own style of music for what is currently popular. For this rea­son, most of their music does not reach the mainstream. We are however, happy to keep them our own little secret. 
One of the things we brag about most is our fine cuisine. Barbecue is King. Barbecue restaurants with names like the "Squat and Gobble" or "Elmo's Barbecue" take pride in the fact that their cooks are up at 2 AM tending to the meat. It is not uncommon to go to a wed­ding reception with picnic tables and eat off of paper plates filled with all the beef brisket you could ever want. 
We would be remiss if we did not men­
tion the style of food named after the 
state, Tex-Mex. The food that spawned 
such restaurants as Chili's and Don 
Pablo's can only be found in the crowded 
cantinas of urban Texas. They are tucked 
away amongst the skyscrapers of down­
town, and in the shopping centers of sub­
urbia. The menus are the same as those 
of Chili's or Don Pablo's, but the food at 
these two establishments does not even 
compare to the native version of Tex­
Mex. 

This is why we feel our state is unique 
(besides the fact that our Constitution 
states we can secede any time we want). This is not to say that other states are boring, but where else can you fmd a lim­ousine with Long Horns on the front and painted like the state flag? Where else can you walk down the street and be greeted with "Howdy" or "How y'all doin'?" instead of the cold shou}der or a wary glance: We love our home state, and we wish everyone could come home with us to have a plate of barbecue, wash it down with a cold Shiner Bock, and lis­ten to Robert Earl Keen live. 

Kristi Kolski Assistant News Editor 
Indiana vs. Texas 
The battle between the states rages on! 
(Bet you didn't even know there was one.) 


Ft. Wayne Lake Michigan High Tops Indy 500 Indiana Dunes Farmers Corn Pop Dan Quayle Gary Cows farms 
Orville Redenbacher 
snow Midwest farmers' 
daughters Corn dogs John Deere 
hats Michigan 
The Alamo 
Gulf of Mexico Cowboy boots Rodeos South Padre 
Cowboys 
Oil 
Coke George Bush EIPaso Steers ranches Ross Perot 
sun 
Dallas Cowgirls 
Barbecue 
Ten gallon hats Mexico 



l 
' 
' 
\
T


By JOEY CRAWFORD 
Assistant Accent Editor 
T
he stars are bright, they are big and bright, deep in the heart of Texas. Deep in the heart of the lone star state lies one of the largest univer­sities in the United States. The University of Texas is a place where the Longhorns rule, the skies are blue and the cups are full and run over with beer. 
The University of Texas at Austin, the largest state school in Texas was founded in the state capital in 1883. Texans are proud of the fact UT has grown from a small campus of 40 acres to the major institu­tion it is today. It has national reputation for the quality of its academic programs, research , and pub­lic services. Today, the campus encompasses just over 357 acres. In 112 years, the four building col­lege has been replaced with the 170 building thriving metropolis. The 170 buildings are the home to more than 49,000 students, 15,000 campus staff, and 2388 faculty members. The University of Texas prides themselves on the quality of the teaching staff. Each year, more than a hundred faculty members receive 
·teaching excellence awards. The tremendous growth of the college symbolizes the tough work ethic of 1 many Texans. Many start from scratch, they work hard, and eventually the arduous labor pays off. 
Famous alumni of the University of Texas include Walter Cronkite, Lady Bird Johnson, Bill Moyers, and Lloyd Bensten. These as· well as a slew of other celebrities have attended the school in which several publications have ranked among the country's best values in higher education. 
Austin in a major college town. The capital city of Texas thrives on the university. Much of the social life revolves around UT. Eager Texans go to football games to support their nationally ranked football team. Baseball also attracts a great deal of attention. 
In addition to the quality athletics at the University of Texas. The Longhorn students find great enjoy­ment in the art of partying. When asked about the parties at UT, one student replied, "I'm sure they are the same as any school in the United States, just bet­ter." Most parties are huge, but are generally held off campus. It is also common practice for the students at the University of Texas to go clubbing any night of the week. The night life on Sixth Street in Austin is famous throughout Texas._ The street is lined with what seems to be hundreds of clubs. The bright lights of these clubs has attracted many a weary westerner to make a pilgrimage to Austin. The stu­dents go to the clubs to dance their worries away. 
As in any large state university, the students are less unified. They do not become a close knit group. Students become lost in the crowd. Often times, stu­dents show up at graduation without knowing but a handful of people. 
There are clear advantages and disadvantages in attending a large school like the University of Texas. The parties may be better, but students have to sacri­fice the unity associated with attending smaller schools. 



~· 
' 

------------------------~ 
Friday, September 22, 1995 The Observer•WEEKEND 
··eAiamo .. 
Assistant Accent Editor 
T
he mission San Antonio de Valero is an American historical landmark. It fits all the criteria: signifi­cant events in our country's past unfolded there, famous people with legendary backgrounds walked around in it, and it probably has a gift shop by now. But why isn't "San Antonio de Valero" as household a name as Independence Hall, Boston Harbor, or Monticello? Because we know it as the Alamo. 
The Alamo was founded in 1718 and gained its more popular name from the Flying Company of San Jose y Santiago del Alamos de Parras calvary unit that occupied the area from 1801 to 1825. Since 1801 it had been used as a military fort. though not built for this purpose-per­haps one indication of the disaster to come. 
In 1835, when Texans began to talk about gaining their independence from Mexico, they sought help from the United States in their quest. Men like David Crockett of Tennessee and the "Ringtail Roarers" (guys who described themselves as half horse and half al­ligator) came down to join those already there, like Colonel James Bowie and General Sam Houston. These men would make names for themselves, leave their marks at the AJruno, and be remembered as heroes. 
In January, 1836, Bowie was sent to the Alamo with orders to abandon the city and demolish the mission. But he and Colonel James C. Neill were not willing to let San Antonio fall into the hands of the Mexicans; they believed the future of Texas depended on who con­trolled it. Although Bowie figured at least 1,000 men would be needed to successfully hold off the Mexicans and they had only 110, he sent a message to Texas gov­ernor Henry Smith that "Colonel Neill and myself have come to the solemn resolution that we will rather die in lhese ditches than give it up to the enemy." 
In early February help arrived. First came Colonel William Barret Travis with thirty men and then Davy Crocklltt and his Tennessee Company of Mounted Volunteers followed-a pleasant surprise to those intent on defending the Alamo. Though Crockett only brought twelve others with him, having the "King of the Wild Frontier" on their side had to boost the spirits of the oecupants of the Alamo. He brought with him an 
·.­
impressive resume, though some parts were exaggerat­ed. He had fought alongside Andrew Jackson in the War of 1812, ridden alligators for exercise, been a state leg­islator, shot forty-seven bears in a month, served as a congressman for the Western District of Tennessee, and forced a grizzly bear to turn away by simply smiling at it. All this with only six months of formal education. 
Soon the Alamo began to look more like a fort with gun mounts of dirt and wood erected, cannons strategi­cally placed, and the second floor of the barracks con­verted into a crude hospital. And just in time, too: less than 400 miles away, Santa Anna was preparing to take care of this threat to his authority as president of Mexico. By February 21, he and his army of 1,500 had moved to within twenty-five miles of San Antonio. 
Bowie and Travis, who together had assumed com­mand of the soldiers at the Alamo, did not believe that an attack would come so soon. Within three days, how­ever, their doubts were eliminated and a sense of anxi­ety and fear overtook the Alamo and San Antonio. When the Mexican army was spotted not more than two miles away, the city became chaotic and its citizens fled to the Alamo for cover. 
On February 24, 1836, the battle began and for four days, no Texans perished despite continuous bombard­ment from Santa Anna's army. But with each new sun­rise, the Mexican army drew closer and grew larger. By the 26th the Texans were unable to return their enemies' fire, forced to conserve all their resources and supplies. 
By March 3rd, the Mexican army had reached 4,000 and the Texans finally realized the gravity of the situa­tion. On March 6th, after three days of heavy attack, the Mexicans assaulted the walls of the Alamo and had men inside after only three attempts and relatively few casu­alties. Within hours, the Alamo had fallen. 
Just how Travis, Crockett, and Bowie died is unclear because of the commotion. Whatever the truth may be, they and a group of Texans no larger than 200 men held off a Mexican army of 4,000 for thirteen days and killed 600 of them before finally succumbing them­selves. In a country that loves the underdog it is not surprising that the Battle of the Alamo, which many people would consider a disaster, is remembered as one of the great exhibitions of emotion and desire in the name of freedom. 

Tailgating Texas style. • • 
Chili 
2 lbs. extra lean ground beef 
2 mod. onions, chopped (1 1/2 c.) 
1 lg. red bell pepper, chopped 
1 tsp. minced fresh garlic 
1 can (28 oz.) whole tomatoes with thick puree 1 can (6 Oz) tomato paste 1 can (15 1/2 oz.) kidney beans, drained 2 tsp: chili powder, or to taste 1 tsp salt, or to taste 2 or 3 drops hot pepper sauce 1/4 c. chopped fresh parsley 
Cook beef, onions, red pepper and garlic in 3 quart pan or pot over a medium high heat until onions are tender and beef loses pink color. Add remaining ingredients; reduce heat to low and simmer UNCOV­ERED until flavors are blended, at least one hour. Makes 8 servings. Serve with top­pings. 
Toppings: Shredded lettuce, chopped fresh tomatoes, chopped onion, shredded Cheddar cheese, tortilla chips, broken into small pieces. 
--courtesy of Mary Grace Crisham, mother of Kate Crisham 
Taco Dip 
8 oz. cream cheese 8 oz. sour cream 1/2 pkg. taco seasoning mix 4-8 oz. Cheddar cheese, shredded Lettuce, onion, tomato Mix first three ingredients, cover with cheese. Put in 
middle of a large plate and surround by lettuce, onion, and tomato. Serve with nacho chips. --courtesy of Marjory Koenig 
.. 
Nacho Cheese Sauce 
2 lbs. Velveeta cheese 1 can Milnot 4 oz. canned green chilies (drained and chopped) 1 tbsp. dried minced onion 2 tbsp margarine 2 tsp. Worcestershire sauce 1/2 tsp. salt 1/4 tsp. cayenne pepper 
Stir together and place into crock pot or fondue pan. -courtesy of Diann Bomkamp, mother of John Bomkamp 


---~ 

page 20 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS Friday, September 22, 1995 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
.... 
Seeking RIDER(s) to S. FLORIDA USC TICKETS NEEDED, STU­I have 1 USC GA & 1 NAVY GA. If 1@#$%1@#$%1@#$%1@#$%1@# Have 2 TEXAS GAs, to TRADE for for X-MAS: Dec 14/Jan 13. DENT OR GA. CALL KATIE AT you have a BC GA & want to trade I NEED 2-4 OH STATE GA'S 2 BC or USC GAs. Colin x -1389NOTICES Call Dyan 4-0979. 219-271-9856. THANK YOU! call Joe @ 2257 CALL JAY COLLECT @ 
(614) 766-2012 I NEED TEXAS, USC & OHIO ST BED&BFST WILL BUY TEXAS TICKETS 817· Have 2 Tax GA, will trade for 2 BC AFTER7PM GA TIXS.CONFIDENTIAL 272· LOVELY ROOM WITH PRIVATE FOR RENT 738-5109 GA Roger x-16764 1@#$%1@#$%1@#$%1@#$%@# 6306 BATH. SLEEPS 2-SMC & ND PARENTS & FRIENDS. 272-5989 2 BDRM HOME FOR RENT NEAR TEXAS BOY DESPERATELY I will TRADE student tix to TX, USC WILL TRADE 4 BOSTON COL­Sale: 2 GAs. Texas. 289-3865 
CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES SEEKING TEXAS TICKETS. & BC for 2 NAVY GA's . LEGE GA'S FOR 4 USC GA'S OR leave message. Englishwoman offers quiet accom­272-6306 PLEASE CALL MIGUEL AT X3336. 233-6165 WILL TRADE 2 BOSTON COL­modation near campus for ND/SMC LEGE GA'S FOR 2 USC GA'S. ALUM WILL PAY $100 A TICKET visitors. Phone (219) 631-6072 HOMES FOR RENT NEAR ND Need 4 USC GAs & 2 BC GAs. Need Texas GA CALL TODD AT 4·1787. FOR USC OHIO STATE WASH daytime, (219) 273-1751 evenings. 232-2595 Please call Cheryl x4883 X1426 ga's personal use only 2n3097 
I NEED TICKETSIIII you are not Don't Miss the return of HOUSE TO SELL OR RENT. Need 2 tickets for ND vs. Texas. I NEED 2 TEXAS TIX using your tix for the Texas game NEED: 4 stud or GA tix BIG EARL WALK TO NO. 315 NAPOLEON, Call Ken, collect at (405)677-8253 GA's or studs (Sep.23), please CALL RICK COL· to Navy-Call Lisa x4669 one night only 3 BR, 1-112 B., 2-CAR GARAGE, call Courtney X2179 LECT at (21 0)805-8355, after 7 pm JAZZMAN's SAT 10:00pm UTILITIES. IDEAL Need 4 USC GA's Katie X4088 CST. student booklet for sale. Call w/ special guest FACULTY/STAFF HOME. AVAIL· USCGATIX 256 9708, leave message, StomperBoB ABLE NOW. SALE $88,000, RENT NEED TXS STD TIX • RON X0648 NEEDED Need 2 good tix for any of the dates make offer. 
$600/MO., PLUS UTILITIES. 2n-2718154 10/21' 10/28, 11/4. ND @ WASHINGTON -2 Dbl Rms 8946. need Texas GA's. John 1-7204; (515)486-2517 PLEASE HELP! Ramada Seattle Oct 6-7. Brunch for 233·3412 SALE I need 3 Navy GA's 4 at Dukes on Lake & boat cruise Nicely decor. nns for rent llball USC STUDS Wanted two to four home game Call Betsy @ x3727 to/from game. No game tkts. $600. wknds 2 mi. N of campus, cont. br1<· Need USC GA'S SOME MARRIED tickets. Call or write. Mike (206)575-0711. 1st, reduced rates, call Kim 2n-1 USC stud. needed 2718154 314-731-7604 Sale: married student tickets. 
8340. Matt 288-3823 Gary Goehl 273-1997 * * SPRING BREAK * * NEEDED • 6 TEXAS TICKETS PO Box4152 MAZATLAN, MEXICO ZEP HOUSE '96-97 Need Texas & BC Tickets-GA or STUDORGA'S Hazelwood MO 63042 Texas ga for sale Best Prices. Best Parties. Organize 6 bednns. Beach V-ball ct. Student • Willing to buy or trade CALL 273-3292 leave offer at x1852 & earn free Spring Break Trip 273-0482, 234-3831 Call Matt 273-9650 Alum wants 2 tix for ohio state and/or cash. Call Ron at 8()()..288-TRADE • 4 Tex GAs for 4 BC GAs, call Eileen x3878 0328 ROOM FOR RENT Need 2 Texas GA's. or will buy. Call2n-5941 
FRI.&SAT. Call Alison X2511 Rich Alumni needs GA's to all home SLEEPS3. TEXAS STUD TIX 4 SALE games. Call Tom at (312)280­
ILOST & FOUND I 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. CALL 273-5295 2591, Bill at (312)327-5329, or I NEED TICKETS FOR THE 272-6194 OR 2S2-9620 AND ASK Greg at (708)253-7997 WASHINGTON GAME. LOST FOR SANDY. I NEED 4 GA'S FOR THE TEXAS 1 TEXAS STU. TK. CALL CHRIS 4·4204 35mm Pentax Camera GAME. PLEASE DO NOT CALL IF For sale! Need GA's to any game in a Brown & Black Case YOU HAVE STUDENT TICKETS CALLx0516 Call Katie X1093 
FOR SALE

Call4x3371 TURNED INTO GA'S. $$ iREWARDI $$ CALL JOE 4-1846. FOR SALE: 2 Texas GAs. WANTED-TEXAS GA'S OR 
2 4TH ROW Tickets for 273-9838. STUD'S WILL PAY BIG$$$ Buying OSU stud. tix $100 please LOST: Very sentimental royal Sat's Chicago Concert 815-282-9503 call Brian @ 634-3322 blue/white J.Crew pullover/coat. at the JACC. Best Offer Need 2 TEX TIX$ or Dad will kill Psbly in S. Din. Hall. Small reward. Call Tom @4-1173 I NEED 4 TICKETS FOR THE mel TURK 273-9105 DON'T MESS WITH TEXAS. $$ PLEASE HELP $$ PLEASE call me if you have it USC. SELL MEYOUR '94 ND ALUM NEEDS Lisa 4-0848 1985 Honda Hatchback CALL BILL AT 4-1854. #$##### TEXASGA'S BC & USC STUD OR GA TIX 
$1000/Best offer 708-957-1546 Need Texas and BC GA's FOR LARGE SUMS CALL 516-326·2659 HELP! I've lost my keys and don't (Chicago) Ask for Pete. New Tires YOU NEED BEER MONEY! for priest and a friend. Alex@ happen to have the extra$50 to pay & Brakes. I desperately need TX tix CALL TIM X3889 OF CASH $$ 4-3504 the fines, so any info is appreciated. Will buy/trade. call 272-4911 PERSONAL
@@@@@@@ 

Two keys (one mail, one door) on a 85 Mazda626LX, 92K, Auto, 4Dr,AII Need 3 TEXAS GA's and/or gold rectangular Notre Dame key­Opts, Excel Cond. $2700. 219-271-TRADE For Sale: 2 OSU-ND tickets South STUD TXTS. Call Tom 4-3637 Ill JAZZERCISE chain. Both have#400. Call x2489-0783. 5 NAVYTIX. Open End. $500 For Both • Finn ITS A FUN WAY TO GET FIT
c. 
Belinda. thanks. Will trade for TEXAS TIX. 513-592-7075 or 513-592-3447 WILL TRADE 2 GA BC FOR 2 SC & STAY THAT WAY. SoloFiex/leg extensions/butterfly KEVIN x3254 GA/STDNT TX. ALSO NEED 1 OR VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 
$$$$ BIG REWARD $$$$ TreadmiiVeach 1 yr. old Wanted: 1 -4 tickets for the Ohio 2 STDNT TEX TX. DON (714) 990-CALL 2n-0111 FOR MORE INFO. LOST: Silver Chann Bracelet; 4 Call after SPM 273-0487 SAVE MEl OR MY HTH WILL KILL State game!! Call: 219-294-3250 0890. channs, lost end of last year; ME. Need 1 Texas tix GA or Stud ask for bill, call before11 am and Bookstore Basketball extreme sentimental value; 2 R.E.M. TIX Vince X 1664 afler2pm X X V PLEASE HELP! Cail284-5479 or DEER CREEK MUS. CEN. NEED MANY, MANY G.A.'S AND x2028 NEXT TUE (SEPT. 26)· 7:30 P.M. 2 G.A. Texas tickets needed. Call STUDENT TIX. FOR THE B.C. 
DEB *4320 Mary Lou daytime 234-7553. I NEED TEXAS GA'SI GAME. AND, EXTRA TICKET Don't forget to pick up applications LOST: gold necklace with cross and Evenings 259-n10. PAULX5113 PLEASEIII BOOKS WANTED. CALL US in Student Activities (3rd floor, heart chann inscripted "Andy" on FOR SALE: 273-5953. LaFortune) if you want to be a bpck. PleaSll <;aii.09;30 if found II MAUVE COLORED COUCH & 2 OSU tix for sale Only serious 2 Texas Married Stud Tix for Sale, Commissioner for the 25th 
LOVE SEAT AND TWO LAMPS. offers! call John@ 219·277-5073 Call Li 273-1176 Central OH ND Alum living in Anniversary Bookstore Basketball PRICE: $200. CALL 2n-3060. Atlanta, GA needs tix for ND-OSU. tournament. Bigger, Better, 
WANTED 
USC TICKETS NEEDED-Please $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Will pay top DOLLAR or trade lodg­Televised?? 
BIKE FOR SALE.272-6306 help me out. .. If you want to sell or Last minute plea -I desperately ing and/or tix for '96 Olympics. Call Help plan the world's largest out­ALASKA EMPLOYMENT­wor1< out a trade, please call Mel @ need Texas Stud. Tix. 404-451-4069 or 404-813-6073. door 5-on-5 hoop tournament. Students Needed! Fishing Industry. High power Yamaha RXV-670 AV 273-0039. Be a lifesaver-call x3713 Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per Surround Receiver. 18 months old, I @#$%11& *()_ +{)}{<>+ _)(*&11%$#@ I month. Room and Board! $800 new, only $325. NEED 2 USC GAs. WILL TRADE 2 NEEDED: Dave Thinks he has a chance at 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 Transportation! Male or Female. No Sony 65-Watt powered sub, $75. BC GAs+$$. CALL CHRIS AT 1 Texas STUD. getting two tickets (GAs or student) LaFortune Student Center experience necessary. Call Call Tony@ X-1726 X1570 Call Mike @0610 ASAP for his parents for Texas. We say We're open for your conveniencelll (206)545-4155 ext A55841 noway. Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight 
'88 Toyota Tercel, 68k mi., excel. MARRIED STD BKS 4 Sale B.O std tix book If you want to prove us wrong call Fri.: 7:30am· 7:00pm CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING • cond., A/C, good mileage. $3,500 273-2331 4sale him at 219-634-3593 and make him Sat.: Noon -6:00pm Earn up to $2,000+/month on or blo. 2n-3503. 289-4988 an offer. He is desperate for tix (as Sun.: Noon • Midnight Cruise Ships or Land-Tour compa­HELP!! MY HTH NEEDS A well as other things). He will do (closed home football Saturdays) nies. World travel. Seasonal & full· I@#$#"%*"&%#@ @ #$$% TEXAS TICKET. GA IF POSSIBLE anything for them (did we mention time employment available. No If you like BASS, you'll like this CALL TRACY X4869 Grandparents need 2·4 GA's for BC -he is in Glee Club?). experience necessary. For more 150 watt 15" game for REASONABLE $. We know he has no chance, but WHY ARE YOU SO DUMB?!? infonnation caii1·206·634-G468 SUBWOOFER NEED TO TRADE NAVY GA'S call ryan @273-4791 prove us wrong and he will ... ext C55841 Call4-1668 FOR TEXAS GA'S. HELP! !@##$%"&*()_ +{):"<>?! @#$%"& ·o THIS FRIDAY, 7/22 the return of 
#@$%&"*(()"&"%#$#$ DAN 3676 SALE SUNSHINE WINE at the return and 4 TEXGATIX reopening of CLUB 23 
WANTED! I Need Tixlll SOYD LN NEED TEXAS GA OR STUDENT Authentic N.D. Stadium seat OSU, BC, Navy 2718154 TICKET, NICK @ 232-1726 Hey, Toots, Happy B-Dayll offered by Athletic Dept. TICKETS call Tom 233-2289 Impressed I remembered? I DESPERATELY need to buy one TRADE: 2 B.C. tickets for the use Need Texas Stud & Ga Tix Junior 
• but they're SOLD OUT! A DEVOTED IRISH FAN NEEDS Need two Texas Tickets of a car 1 0/27-29 Eric 233-4435 PLEASE HELP MEl $$$11 GA'S TO ANY/ALL Ca11Ericx1157 call Matt x2177 or Andrew x3255 Hey Anna, Bergin, Clar1< & Tur1<­Call: Chris Carroll (Class Of '91) HOME/AWAY GAMES. Need UW tix: 273-9730 l don't think Career & Placement is M-F8·5 est 219·232·0061, 24 HAS. Need Texas Tickets! NEED up to 4 GAs for BC. Call going to help us A&L Aussies. (708)325-8700 Also have a USC ticket x1398 NEED 2 BC GA'S. WILL PAY$$$$ Remember the Brass Monkey­Thanks. to sell or trade. CALL JAMIE 271·8662 scrap those resumes, girls, we're 
TICKET-MART, INC. Call Carlos@ x0915 going to SAN FRANCISCOII RIDE TO ND-OSU GAME. WILL WANTED I NEED GA'S MEGAN X3890 NEEDED: TEXA$ GA's Love, Katie SHARE COSTS AND DRIVING. GA'S FOR ANY/ALL call 273-9710 15z PREFER TO SPEND FRI OR SAT HOME/AWAY NO GAMES. TEXASGA BC BC BC BC BC BC BC BC BC NIGHT AT OSU, BUT NOT NEC. BUY*SELL *TRADE BEST OFFER I need BC GAs ... cail x3975 NEED TEXAS TIX Happy 21st Birthday Julie! Have a CALL MARC x0672 (219) 232·0058 • 24 HRS. X1759 BC BC BC BC BC BC BC BC BC yes I do GOUDA one. Don't forret: 
273-5281 Saturday. 12:00. Senior Bar. And TUTOR needed to come to my I NEED TIXS TO ALL HOME I NEED 3 TEXAS GA'S GA FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE as for the concert Sunday -bring the house (10 min. from ND) from 4:30 GAMES.272.·6306 RYAN #1239 PLEASE! CALL 2719464 OR 2887162 NEED TEXAS GAsUl !I guitar and we'll pour some sugar to 6:30 on Mon. Tues. Wed, Thur, PLEASE CALL ROGER and some Sun. Two high school NEED TEXAS GA'S. I need 2-4 Texas GA's. Need 2 B.C. GA's 233-2289 students need help with Chemistry, CALL ALISON 1-800-431-0010, call Dennis @ x4335. call Greg:273-8629 • 7 Farley Freshmen • Biology, Algebra. Will pay well. 272-EXT. 8796. PLEASE HELPIIII Seek For SYR • 8235. Help Wanted: My father is a psycho! He and a · • 7 Freshmen Guys • 
Need G.A. Tix to NO-Texas. Call Need GAs for USC-money no NEED TEXAS GAs· WILL PAY$$ friend are coming down for the Call Megan RIDERS WANTED NY/NJ to ND Joe at 287-4561 before 10 p.m. object. please call Charlie x2243 game this weekend and they don't ASAP! x4068 I am flying home and buying a car, Brian x3692 have any tickets. If you have two but if I drive it back alone I think I NEED NO-TEXAS GA NEED 1·7 TEXAS GA'S. X1899 GA's for the Texas game, please will probably crash it. No gas $ OR STUDENT TIX. Wanted: 4 tickets together -any call Brian at x1741. Want to get in kilt with Irish Guard! nee., but I need you to spell me at CALL DAVE 1-800-444·1133 home game $1 need 2 Texas Ga's for my Dad$ Call4869 the wheel. Smokers welcome. EXT. 3876. Wanted: 2 tickets NO-USC $ Call Kate at 2900 Parents Coming! Call Josh@ 2n-9071 Call 1·800·922-BEAR day ·$ Need 2 GA's to Texas Happy Birthday 
NO DAD NEEDS TEXAS, USC & 1-502-354-8826 collect in evening Call Larry 634-4540 Rhonda Ill NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­PURDUE GA'S. Need 1 USC Ticket Student or Love Section 1 B Seasonal & full-time employment 219·422·6088. Alum needs Texas tix. Call Mike GA. Call Anne x4896. 4Sale available at National Par1<s, Forests COLLECT 516-471·0300 Pair of Stud Married TIX Danielle Gatti.. .it's been four & Wildlife Preserves. Benefits + BC TICKETS NEEDED. PLEASE CA family needs 3 BC GAs. 273.0824 • leave an offer years ... are you up to the challenge? bonuses! Call: 1·206-545-4804 ext. CALL KATIE@ 219-271-9856. NEED 1 TEXAS GAll Please! N55841 THANK YOU! Call Jeannine @ 273-0962 Call Clara x4826 NEED 6 GA'S.2 STD 4 TXS X2855 
see ClASS/ page 21 


Friday, September 22, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
Class 
continued from page 20 
Sharon 
Thank you for Introducing everyone to Notre Dame Junior High. 
Calm blue ocean. Calm blue ocean. Calm blue ocean. 
Anyone who can officiate field hockey, call 272·9455. 
Hey, Miss KTIIIII I love your lava Iampi I'll be over to take a PICTURE of It soon. 
Heather Findley, editor of "Girlfriends," the fastest 
growing lesbian publlcaation, will be speaking at 2:15p.m. today in Room 303 of the Haggar College Center at Saint Mary's. 
That was just... reprehensible 
By ROB GLOSTER 
Associated Press 
OAKLAND, Calif. 
Earlier this summer, the Cali­fornia Angels' potent lineup was evoking comparisons with the 1927 New York Yankees and other great hitting teams of the past. 
Now the collapsing Angels are being mentioned in the com­pany of the 1978 Red Sox, the 1969 Cubs, the 1964 Phillies and the 1951 Brooklyn Dodgers -great choke teams of the past. 
California had a franchise­record 11-game lead in the AL West on Aug. 9. Now, the An­
.... 
• AMERIACN LEAm,E 

Angels falling fast in West standings 
gels are tied with Seattle atop the division. 
"We were on a defmite high a month ago, everything was go­ing for us," said right fielder Tim Salmon. "I hate to say that we're pressing, but I know per­sonally I want to step up and be the guy to pull us out of this." 
The Angels, who were 26 games over .500 on Aug. 15 but are just nine games over now as they head into a weekend series at Texas, have seen a six-game lead over the Mariners evaporate in the past nine days. 
California, which has lost 25 of 33, dropped its seventh straight Wednesday despite ral­lying for six runs in the ninth. 

TASTE OF INDIA 
Newly Opened Indian Restaurant! 
Vegetarian and Non-Vegetarian Indian Cuisine 
Lunch Buffet I lam -3 pm $4.95 all you can eat! Dinner 5-9 pm daily Monday-Thursday Open 'til Sunset Friday Closed Saturday 
For Large Group Reservations Call (616) 471 5058 
8938 US Highway 31 Berrien Springs, MI 
(Across from Andrews University) 
That 9-6 loss to Oakland, cou­pled with Seattle's 11-3 win Wednesday night over Texas, left the teams tied. 
Seattle, which trailed the An­gels by 13 games on Aug. 4, has won seven of eight. For the first time in the Mariners' 19-year history, they're in first place after May. The Mariners host California next Tuesday and Wednesday. 
The Angels said the ninth-in­ning rally against the Athletics brought back memories of hap­pier days this summer. 
"That last inning was kind of typical of the way things used to be," said J.T. Snow, who grounded into a double play to end the game. "Now it's not the same as it was." 
California has a history of col­lapses. The Angels blew a 2-0 lead to lose the best-of-5 AL Championship Series in 1982 to the Milwaukee Brewers. It got even closer in the best-of-7 championship series in 1986 against Boston. 
In 1986, the Angels were up 3-1 in games and led 5-2 in the ninth inning of the fifth game. They still had a 5-3 lead over Boston with two outs and no­body on, but Donnie Moore gave up a tying two-run homer to Dave Henderson and a sacri­fice fly to Henderson in the 11th. 
By the start of August, the Angels boasted six .300 hitters and had built a comfortable lead in the AL West by winning 15 of their last 18 games in July. They averaged 7.44 runs per game in July, scoring the most runs in a month by any team since 1958. 
But things started unraveling when All-Star shortstop Gary DiSarcina tore a ligament in his left thumb on Aug. 3. The An­gels are 16-29 with DiSarcina out of the lineup this season. 
And All-Star outfielder Jim Edmonds, flirting with a run at the Triple Crown in late July and leading the majors in RBis, 
•
has not been the same since straining his back. He went from Aug. 25 to Sept. 10 with­out an RBI. 
Edmonds struck out three straight times against Todd Stottlemyre on Wednesday and was removed for a pinch-hitter in the ninth as the Angels ral­lied but fell short. 
"There's been times when we've scored plenty of runs but not pitched well and other times we pitch well but can't score any runs," said Shawn Boskie, the losing pitcher Wednesday. "It's just an overall funk that we've been in." 

Cleveland Signstage Theatre's national touring production of Mark Medoff's Tony-Award winning drama 
Children ofa 
Lesser 
God 
One Show Only! 
Friday • Sept. 29 8:00P.M. 
For ticket information, call 219/284-4626 Mon.-Fri. 9p.m.-Sp.m. 

23rd Annual Summer Program NO-SMC
'The Best Tan 
Students
Under The Sun" 
• • • • • • • [L(Q)[]l)cd](Q)[]l) ~@!IT!'i)@ 
• 
Beds, Booths &: Euros M?IDJY ~~ = Dllilml@ ~~ Dllil []l)@ ~ (6) = Dllil ~JY ~ ~ 

• 
Open 7 Days AWeek 


Travel in Ireland, Scotland, & France Travel in France, Germany, & Switzerland
• 
Convenient Hours 

• 
Student Discounts 


Guaranteed Satisfaction! Courses offered In 

Biology, Photography, Sociology, Business &
256-9656 
GRAPE &: M<:Koo£y Economics, History, Italian 
NfAIK·Mm' 

Organizational I Meeting -October 3 
7:00 pm Carroll Hall • Pizza Social • 
Past student and faculty participants will be present. For info:rrration call Prof. Black 284-4460 or 272-3726 

I I I I page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 22, 1995 
I 
I ...... 
• AMERIACN LEAGUE 
I 
I I I Fernandez goes the distance to down Brewers 

Associated Press 

Alex Fernandez won his sixthI straight decision, pitching a 
~ 
five-hitter for his fourth com­
~ ­
plete game, as the Chicago
I 
White Sox beat the Milwaukee
I 
I Brewers 5-1 Thursday night. 
I Fernandez (11-8) walked 
I none and struck out seven on a 
I 
I wet and windy night to match his career-best winning streak. 
He retired 19 of the fmal 20 hit­
I 
ters and hasn't lost since Aug.
I 
5. He's also had three no-deci­
I 
sions in that·stretch. 
I Milwaukee, loser of 18 of the last 23, took a 1-0 lead in the frrst when Chicago center field­er Lance Johnson missed John Jaha's liner for a three-base error, allowing B.J. Surhoff, who had singled, to score. 
Ozzie Guillen, Tim Raines and Dave Martinez singled to make it 1-1 in the third. Ray Durham singled, stole second and scored on Mike LaValliere's two-out double in the fourth as Chicago went ahead 2-1 off Bob Scanlan (4-6). 
Hits by Lyle Mouton and LaValliere, and an infield single by Johnson gave the Sox a 5-1 lead in the sixth. 
Orioles 13, Tigers 1 
Mike Mussina of the Orioles didn't mind the fans in Tiger Stadium heaping affection on Lou Whitaker and Alan Tram­mell. That's because he won the game. 
Mussina became the win­ningest pitcher in the American League with his 17th victory, throwing a three-hitter Thursday as Baltimore beat De­troit 13-1. 
An appreciative crowd of 14,803 showed up for the Tigers' final home game of the season. They showered Trammell and Whitaker, who have hinted at retirement, with applause. 
It also may have been the fi­nal game for Sparky Anderson at Tiger Stadium, but the fans booed the manager during his many pitching changes. 
"It was pretty much all good," Anderson said. "I guess they felt sorry for us. There were some boos. But the last five years, I've been booed less than I was the frrst few years. I guess they realize I don't care." 
Mussina (17 -9) struck out eight and walked four to move one victory ahead of Boston knuckleballer Tim Wakefield and New York's David Cone. His fifth complete game ties him for third in the AL. 
"I thought the most touching moment came just as I was completing my warmup tosses to start the first inning," Mussina said. "I glanced over and saw them tip their caps at the same time. If you were go­ing to have a photograph of the day, that would be the one to have." 
John Doherty {5-9) allowed four runs on nine pitches in one-third of an inning. 
Twins 5, Royals 2 
Marty Cordova tripled home a run and scored two as Min­nesota all but ended Kansas City's wild-card playoff hopes with a 5-2 victory Thursday night in a virtually empty sta­dium on a cold night. 
It was the last-place Twins who played like a playoff team, getting strong pitching from starter Brad Radke (11-13) and a magnificant catch in center from Rich Becker to send the Royals four games back with nine to play. 
Minnesota won four games in the five-game series from Kansas City, which trails Seat­tle and California, each idle. The Royals had won four in a row to fmish a West Coast road 
Flowers, Roses,
FLOWERS 
Balloons, Birthday
DELIVERED 
Cakes, Fruit Baskets, 
~7 DAYS~ 
Plush Animals and Gifts 
"asy tatGh 

runo's South 
-
Dine-In/Carry Out 2610 Prairie Ave. 288-3320 
all for Reservations 
I l 
I I anquet Rooms I I Available
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
trip and won the first game of a doubleheader Monday before dropping four straight. 
Becker ran far to his left and made a sprawling catch of Keith Lockhart's line drive, and then doubled up the Royals' fastest runner, Tom Goodwin, at first to end the third inning. 
Radke pitched his second complete game of the season and of his career, allowing two runs on eight hits· and retiring 10 of the last 11 batters. 
Royals starter Jason Jacome lasted 6 2-3 innings, giving up five runs on nine hits as he lost his third straight decision. 
Yankees 6, Blue Jays 4 
Ruben Sierra hit a three-run homer and Randy Velarde had an RBI single in a five-run eighth inning that carried the New York Yankees to a 6-4 vic­tory over the Toronto Blue Jays Thursday night, 
New York completed their first-ever, four-game sweep of the Blue Jays and pulled within a half-game of the idle Califor­nia Angels and the Seattle Mariners in the American League wild-card race. 
Sierra's homer, his 18th of the year and sixth since joining the Yankees on July 28, was his first since Aug. 28 and came off Paul Menhart (1-3). 
Menhart held the Yankees to five hits in seven innings before Bernie Williams and Paul O'Neill opened the eighth with singles. Sierra homered to right to tie the score 4-4. 
Steve Howe (6-3), the fourth of five Yankees pitchers, got the last two outs in the eighth to get the victory. John Wetteland pitched the ninth for the save. 

Bruno's North 
Dine-In/Carry Out 
Delivery 273-3890 
SPECIALS 
$10.50 
2 12 in. Pizza 6 items 
1 12 in. Pizza and 
1 12 in. Sandwich 

(Sausage, Ham, Beef) 
Friday, September 22, 1995 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 23 

Sr. Emmanuel is coming from Medjugorje to share the ongoing miracle of Medjugorje with Notre Dame and St. Mary's students! 
MEDJUGORJE RETREAT 
Begins Friday Night (Sept. 29th) at 7:00p.m. at St. joseph's Hall on Notre Dame's Campus (concludes at 2:30p.m. Sunday (Oct. ls} 
Three days to choose happiness with Our Lady, the Queen ofPeace!" 
$r. Emmanuel will be coming to Notre Dame from Medjugorje in Bosnia-Hercegovina where the Blessed Mother continues to appear daily with an urgent message for all humanity: ~~I am anx­ious for people to know what is happening in Medjugorje. Speak about it... I have come to call the world to conversion for the las time! 77 Pope John Paul II has recently made public his intention to go to Medjugorje... 
Our Lady of Medjugorje will save America! 77 
Pope John Paul II 11 Some would gladly silence the Blessed Mother after ten years for apparitions in Medjugorje so that no one hears her... I consider this terrible war as God's warning for us all to convert-for our Croatian people and the other peoples of Yugoslavia, Europe, and the whole world to be saved. 77 
Archbishop Frane Franic o/ Split, 1991 

-what's Important Now? ... 
It's important to pray. It's important to fast. It's important to make sacrifices. It's important to do the things that Our Lady tells us in her messages in Medjugorje... The three days we spent in Medjugorje are three of the most fruitful days of my entire life. I really and truly believe that Our Lady appears there!" 
Lou Holtz 



To pre-register contact Tony Pillari, 1118 Grace, tel. 634-0688 "And when he drew near and saw the city he wept over it, saying, 'Would that even today you knew the things that make for peace! But now they are hid from your eyes. For tl1e days shall come upon you, when your enemies will cast up a bank about you and surround you and hem you in on every side ... and they will not leave one stone upon anothet in you; because you did not know the time of your visitation." 
Luke 19:41-44 

c u t t h i s 0 u t a n d p 0 s t i t o n y o u r f I o o r I 

,-----· 
I I 
Friday, September 22, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS
' I 
I • NATIONAl LEAGUE 
' ­
! ' 
Maddux shuts out Mets 
Associated Press 
' I 
I Greg Maddux became the I major leagues' first 18-game
I 
winner, allowing five hits in
I 
eight innings as the Atlanta
I 
Braves beat the New York Mets 
I 
3-0 Thursday night. 
I 
Maddux (18-2) struck out
I 
I nine and walked none before I Mark Wohlers finished with a I perfect ninth for his 25th save. I Maddux lowered his ERA to I 1.68. 
I 
Marquis Grissom followed
I 
with a walk and Mark Lemke
I 
reached on first baseman RicoI Brogna's error, loading the bases. Chipper Jones followed 
~ 
with a two-run double and Fred McGriff hit an RBI groundout. Maddux also doubled in the fourth, but was stranded. 
Telgheder gave up all three runs -just one earned -and five hits in four innings. New York, which stranded runners at third in the fourth and sixth innings, lost for just the second time in nine games. 
Philadelphia 3, Florida 1 
Michael Mimbs, winning as a starter for the frrst time in two months, allowed one run in 7 2­3 innings as the Philadelphia Phillies beat the Florida Marlins 3-1 Thursday night. 
Mimbs (9-6), relegated to the bullpen at the end of July, al­lowed four hits, struck out six and walked three. 
Steve Frey relieved with the bases loaded and one out in the ninth and induced Quilvio Ve­ras to hit into a double play. It was Frey's first save in exactly two years, since he got one for California. 
Willie Banks (2-6) gave up all three runs and six hits in 5 2 3 innings. 
Philadelphia took a 1-0 lead in the third inning when Lenny Webster doubled, took third on a groundout and scored on Mimbs' single. 
Jim Eisenreich led off the fourth with his ninth homer, the 12th allowed by Banks in 82 innings. 
Philadelphia got another run in the sixth when Mickey Morandini singled, took second on a sacrifice, advanced to third on Eisenreich's long flyout and scored on Mark Whiten's bunt. 
Pirates 4, Cubs 3 
Pittsburgh's 1992 trade of John Smiley paid off Thursday 


CINEMA AT THE SMITE 
presented by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
631·7361 

"An Insatiably Romantic And Exuberantly Witty Film:' 
IC,d,.,(' ~;)')(,'}lflP·P..~~ ..~:"'t 
eth•n 1awke julie dc)py 
Can the greatest romance of your life last only one night? 
BEFORE 
~
I' 
SUNRISE 
ARichard LinkJater Film
I' 
l I 
~ 
J 
I 
' 
' 
I 
THE

' 
I 
I BLUE 
,' 
' 
MON. 9/25 9pm
' 
ANGEL 

_, starring Marlene Dietrich TUES. SEPT. 26 9:30pm 
World Wide Web<http://www.nd.edu/-cothweb/wwwsnite.html> 
night, as the players acquired in the deal -Denny Neagle and Midre Cummings -led the Pirates to a 4-3 victory over the fading Chicago Cubs. • 
Neagle (13-7) allowed seven hits in seven innings for his sec­ond consecutive win after he had gone five weeks without a victory. He struck out seven, walked none and retired his last 10 batters. 
Dan Miceli pitched the ninth for his 21st save. ­
Cummings, who also arrived from the Minnesota Twins three years ago, broke a 2-2 tie with a two-run, two-out single in the sixth inning. 
Steve Trachsel (6-13) dropped to 2-16 at Wrigley Field in his career. Three of the four runs he allowed in his six innings were unearned because of two errors by shortstop Shawon Dunston. 
Pinch-hitter Scott Bullett hit a solo home run, his third, off Miceli in the ninth. 


r--------------------------------------------,
. I 
I I 
I I I I

CP\~WC3ffi ~ I 
I 

HOURS: Monday -Th&nclay 7 -tD 10 pm • Fllday 7 am liD 1 pm • s.auntay 9 am 10 7 pm • Sunday 9 am lo 5 pm 
21 Tans I I For $2 
NOTRE DAME. 2.77-1166 
.............O.fllll­

..............,...........,..,".,.. _, 
L------~----------------------­

"Americans At Their Best'' 
BENEFITS INCLUDE: 
-EXTRA INCOME 

(4 DAYS PAY FOH 2 DAYS WORK -PAID JOB TRAINING/EXPERIENCE -RECREATIONAL FACILITIES -FLEXIBLE SCHEDULING -MANAGEMENT/LEADERSHIP TRAINING -LOW COST LIFE INSURANCE COVERAGE -MEDICAL/DENTAL CARE -TRAVEL PRIVILEGES -SCHOLARSHIP AVAILABILITY -TUITION ASSISTANCE (GI BILL) -EARN COLLEGE CREDITS -VA HOME LOAN GUARANTEE -SURVIVOR BENEFIT PROGRAM -RETIREMENT BENEFIT PROGRAM 
FOR DETAILS CALL SSG TAYLOR 
(219) 234-9258 


F1iday, S~ptember 22, 1995 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 25 


The place t:o / go for ALL your NOTRE DAME sport:swear & accessories! 
First Floor LaFortune Student Center (219)631-8128 
Friday 12-9 pm
IRISH 
EXPRESS 
Saturday 8am-9pm
HOURS 
__......._. 
Sunday 9am -3 pm 
VVe Accept Visa, Master Card and Discover 

-
-
-
Friday, September 22, 1995

page 26 The Observer • SPORTS 
-
• RYDER CuP GoLF 
European team counting on Ballesteros 
Europe took the Cup from the and birdies, and foursome play would almost have to go out to­very experienced or simply very ByRON SIRAK 
isn't about that," Gallacher gether in the first round." 
old. With Ballesteros and Ian United States in 1985 for the

Associated Press 
Olazabal withdrew early this
Woosnam, playing in his sev­first time since 1957, Balles­said. 
month because of a foot prob­

ROCHESTER, N.Y. enth Ryder Cup, both sitting out teros got 3 V2 of his team's 15 Even the Americans were More than anyone, Seve the morning matches it's look­points. startled by the benching of lem. 
Ballesteros. ''I'm sure he'll play bestBallesteros represents the rise ing a little like old might be the He had four of their 13 points 
when the team successfully "I expected to see him for all ball," Pavin said about Balles­
of European golf and its success answer. 
However, the Europeans may defended in 1987 and had 3 1/2 five matches no matter how teros. "And he may pop upin the Ryder Cup, the emotional 
more in the halved match in he's playing, just gutting it Saturday morning. I'm sure 
core of a team that achieved find real depth in their bid to 
hard-earned parity with the reclaim the Cup from the U.S. 1989. And perhaps even more out," Haas said. "Maybe if Jose he'll be walking around the important than his golf, Maria were playing it would course. His presence will be
team if Sam Torrance and

Americans. 
felt."

Ballesteros' intense confidence have been different. They
But when tbe 31st Ryder Cup Costantino Rocca play up to starts with alternate-shot play their recent form and if Per-Ul­proved a constant inspiration. 
Friday morning, Ballesteros rik Johansson plays as well as he has in practice. He taught the Europeans to
will be on the sidelines, 
believe they really could play

benched in the first match for 
with the Americans. 

the first time in his eight Ryder Joining Ballesteros and Woosnam on the sidelines for "We can't play Seve in everyCups. 
Maybe because his longtime the Europeans are rookie Philip match," Gallacher said. "He'll come into these matches at the
partner Jose Maria Olazabal is Walton and one-time Ryder Cup player David Gilford. right moment, which is best for not playing or maybe because 
Seve and best for the team." 

his game is not going well, Benching Ballesteros had to Ballesteros will watch the for­be a jolt for the Europeans. He That could be as early as Fri­
mat in which his career record has played in every Ryder Cup day afternoon's better-ball 
is 10-3-1. since the team was expanded to matches. include Europe in 1979. When "Seve's game is about bogeys "The captain has to play the people he thinks are in the best 
Come to the Alumni-Senior Club!
form," Ballesteros said Thurs­day after Bernard Gallacher t the Good Times announced his pairings. "That's all I have to say." 
Rolli OPen Friday:
The 38-year-old Spaniard didn't finish better than 40th in any of the four major champi­
Happy 21s after the PeP RallY until 2:00 am 
onships this year and had been struggling in practice. He start­ed his final tuneup round with 
Anne & Kristen! OPen Saturday:
a drive that wildly missed the fairway to the left. "He must not be hitting it 
Love, 

Half an Hour after the game until
straight," U.S. team member Tom Lehman. "I'm sure he'll be Amy, Emily, Sarah a huge factor in best ball, but 
-Missy, and Natalie 2:00am 
maybe he's not playing well enough for alternate shot." The question had been whether the European team is 

men of talent. 
-
-
on • 
j
. 
.. 
-------~~ 

Friday, September 22, 1995 

Florida State coach Bobby Bowden has been accused of running up the score more than once during his career. 
Maximizing Academic Performance in Graduate School 
A Workshop using the insights ofSports Psychology to help You achieve Your Best Performance 
This Workshop will focus OI) techniques for: 
• 
Enhancing and maintaining concentration 

• 
How to manage numerous demands on your time 

• 
Handling performance anxiety when writing papers, making presentations and taking comprehensive finals 

• 
Dealing with academic setbacks 

• 
Improving confidence in your study strategy 

• 
Improving your ability to pace yourself in your a~adem­ic studies 

• 
Focus your energy quicker and more productively 


Presentation by: Dr. Dominic Vachon, Ph.D. 
Date:  Sunday, September 24, 1995  
Time:  4:00 p.m.-5:00 p.m.  
Place:  Fischer O'Hara/Grace Community Center  
Sponsored by:  

The University Counseling Center • Campus Ministry • Fischer O'Hara/Grace University VIllage • Graduate Student Union 
Bo 
When: Friday, September 22 
Where: Library Circle-7:15pm Dinner -~"'F1v Bowling-SHULA'S Cost: $5.00 Members 
$6.00 Non-members RSVP: KC 4-2476 or Jen 4-2478 
Free Transportation! 
Brought to you by ~ St4, the group that plans fun social activities that do not center around the use ofdrugs and alcohol. 

The Observer • SPORTS page 27 
• COLLEGE fOOTBAll 

Top teams piling on the points 
By PAUL NEWBERRY 
Associated Press 
Florida State and Nebraska scored enough points last weekend to win three of the previous five national champi­onships -in BASKETBALL, that is. 
Football, of course, is the sport in season, but you can bet that finishing No. 1 was at least a passing thought for Florida State's Bobby Bowden and Ne­braska's Tom Osborne as their teams piled up 77 points apiece. 
"The only way you're going to get real high is by beating peo­ple by a large margin," said Arizona State coach Bruce Sny­der, his team destroyed by No. 2 Nebraska 77-28. "If we had a playoff system, then a one-point victory is as good as 50, but we don't have that." 
Last Saturday, the top seven teams in The Associated Press poll scored a basketball-like av­erage of 63 points. The top scorers -offenders. to some ­were Nebraska and top-ranked Florida State, a 77-17 winner over North Carolina State. 
"It's never happened like this before," said Bowden. sounding almost apologetic about having a team that's averaged 64 points and 666 yards in three games. 'Yeah, we've scored 50 points plenty of times before, but 70 points twice?" 
Bowden's aw-shucks routine didn't wash with some of his colleagues, notably Lloyd Carr of Michigan and Lou Tepper of Illinois. 
"I was appalled just looking at the scores of the Top 10," said Tepper, his team only 1-2. "They're so removed from the short end of the stick, they don't know what it's like to go home after a 70-6 game and have your heart ripped out." 

But Florida coach Steve Spurrier, who's been accused of running up a few scores in his time, believes comments like that are just sour grapes. 
"I've never worried about it," he said. "Hopefully, I will never complain about it." 
"I've heard some coaches say that if they want to keep a high rating and they get the chance, they'll keep on scoring," said Spurrier, who strongly favors a playoff system. "That's the na­ture of college football, the only sport in the world where voting decides how good you are." 
Mark Blaudschun, college football writer for The .Boston Globe and a voter in the AP's media poll, said big scores don't necessarily sway his bal­lot. 
"Florida got my attention with what they did to Tennessee," he said, referring to the Gators' 62-37 victory over the then-No. 8 Vols. "Florida State did not with what they did to North Carolina State. Neither did Nebraska with what they did to Arizona State. I totally dismissed those games." 
Still, Blaudschun wouldn't mind eliminating the weekly polls, proposing the release of a Top 25 only a couple of times during the season and again at the end of the regular season to determine to bowl matchups. 
"That way, teams can have up and down weeks and not be affected by it," he said. "Coaches would be less inclined to run up the score knowing they have a couple of weeks cushion before the poll comes up." 
Bowden and others say the top teams are hard-pressed to keep scores from soaring into the stratosphere. A coach can send his reserves into the game, but in many cases the other team doesn't want to risk hurting its top players, either. "I think for a lot of us it's a case where our reserves are better than your reserves," Bowden said. "In the fourth quarter. the other team con­cedes and starts playing new boys. You play your new boys 
..

and they're vastly superior to their new boys." 
Bowden appeared stung by the indirect criticism from coaches like Tepper and Carr, who passed up a chance for an easy touchdown near the end of No. 9 Michigan's 23-13 victory over Boston College. 
"I think they made a mistake judging what other people are trying to do," Bowden said. "Like the coach this week (Carr) who made the statement that he's sick of people trying to run up the score. I don't think it's his right -well, I guess it's his right -but I don't think he can judge what I was thinking." 
Bowden did sent a letter of apology to Duke coach Fred Goldsmith for having starter Danny Kanell throw a fourth­quarter TD pass in their game three weeks ago, but Spurrier apparently paid no attention. 
Get Involved ... 

...with CLASS OF '96 Sponsored Service Projects: 
CD LIFE TREATMENT CENTER Help serve a meal and spend time with indigent adults recovering from addiction to alcohol and other drugs. When?: Sundays 3:45-5:45p.m. Beginning September 24 
@ HARRISON SCHOOL Tutoring Program for spanish,speaking students of a local ­public school. 
When?: Sundays 9:00-10:00 a.m. Thursday 9:15-10:30 a.m. Beginning September 25 
@ MEMORIAL HOSPITAL Provide care and spend time with outpatients of the Children's Ward of a local hospital. (Only open to Juniors and Seniors) 
@FALL BREAK EXPERIENCE WITH POTOWATOMI INDIANS 
Provide housing renovation for local Native Americans during Fall Break. When?: October 16-19. 
Trip will conclude with a Pow Wow celebration with the Pokagon Band of Potowatomi Indians, including dancers, drummers, singers and traditional food. 
Interested? Have Questions? 

Call the CLASS OF '96 Office or Pete 634,2306 

---~-·-~---------­

' 
~
, ' page 28 The Observer· SPORTS 
r • NATIONAL fOOTBALL lEAGUE 
' 
I I I 
Bears visit unbeaten Rams 
Book signing Friday I :30-3:00 at the JACC and Saturday 9:00-1 0:30 at the Bookstore. Meet All-American Greats: Angelo Bertelli, Vegas Ferguson, 
-

Friday, September 22, 1995 


Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 

Chicago defensive tackle/fullback Jim Flanigan has been a standout for 
the Bears on both sides of the ball so far this season. 
JAZZMAN's 
GRILL & BAR 
525 N. Hill Street • 233-8505 
PRESENTS: 
Wild & c ....azy SeV\iol"'' s Satt.wday College Night Live 
Featuring: Two Exciting Bands: 
Wompus (formerly known as the Big Earl Band) with guest band Stemper Bob and the 4 x 4's 
• Plus Lady Melo-"0" playing your favorite cover hip hop music. Come out and welcome Will and the group back from 
North Carolina. Their first local appearance since leaving the South Bend area. 
$3.00 Admission With Student ID $5.00 Admission Without Student ID Doors open 8 pm • Both dance floors open until close Must be 21 and over 
Seniors save $1.00 with this ad before 11 pm 
1!1.1!1 
1; ~o, What ire lou i; 
1

~ T Th
.Ilfearmg; o eI 1 Game'~ I ~i .URBAN OUTFITIERS • COATS/) ACKETS  1 ~ aiiI  
I•VINTAGE LEVI'S ~  •SOCKS,TIGHTS,BELTS •HATS  ~ I  
~  10% off with Student ID  ~  
~  2.5 miles North of state line (US 31/33)  ~  
1m ~i  1912 S. 11th, Niles BELLE PLAZA  ~ ~ ~  

ISTYLE Sat 10-6 I
1 C Sun 12~41 
~co .IN ~ 
1 Layaway& ~ Alternative Clothing for Women alterations available g 1!11!1 
' I 
I I I I 
' I 
I I I I I I I I I I 
' I 
I I 
' 
' 
' ' •
' I 
~ 
~ 
t 
By R.B. FALLSTROM Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS 

The St. Louis Rams are the talk of the NFL, and for a change it has nothing to do with moving vans. 
The Rams are 3-0 and one of only five undefeated teams in the league entering Sunday's game against Chicago (2-1). With a victory, they'll equal last year's win total in their final season in Anaheim, Calif. 
After five consecutive losing seasons, excuse them if they're still getting used to the high life. 
"We're 3-0, my God," line­backer Roman Phifer said. "I've never been 3-0." 
The last time the Rams start­ed this fast was in 1989, the year they made it to the NFC championship game and the last time they made the play­offs. The national media has taken notice, with The New York Times paying a visit and ESPN, Fox, HBO and CNN doing profiles. 
All this for a team that was 4­12 last year. Coach Rich Brooks led Oregon to its first Rose Bowl in 37 last January and so far he's perf(}rmed a quick turn­around with the Rams. 
"Obviously, Rich has done a goo-d job of putting it all to­gether in such a short amount of time," Bears coach Dave Wannstedt said. "I can just re­flect back to my first year here. At this point in time, I was just trying to evaluate the personnel and figure out who could play and who couldn't." 
The key to the Rams' start, with victories at Green Bay and Carolina and a win at home against New Orleans, are a de­fense that has produced a league-high 12 turnovers and an offense that has been error­free. Last week, the Rams bul­lied Carolina into seven turnovers. 
"That game was kind of un­believable," said cornerback Anthony Parker, who returned a fumble for a touchdown. "I don't know if we'll ever have another one like that." 
Already, the Rams have scored three touchdowns on defense. Safety Todd Lyght, who has an interception return for a score, said when there's a loose ball "it's like gold bullion, waiting to be scooped up." 
Parker scored touchdowns in three consecutive games last year for Minnesota and moved to the Rams, along with defen­sive coordinator Willie Shaw. 
"You see people in the end zone, you want to go there yourself," Parker said. "We're going to get more touchdowns, no doubt about it." 
So far, it's taken the load off a stagnant offense. Chris Miller has gone 112 passes without an interception, dating to last year, and the running game high­lighting Jerome Bettis (154 yards) has shown signs of life the last two weeks, but it's not producing much. 
"We probably won't get seven turnovers this week, so we'd better find a way to get it in the end zone without as much help," Brooks said. 
The Bears have been a simi-Iar team, also forcing seven turnovers in a 25-6 victory over Tampa Bay. The Bears had four interceptions, their second blocked punt in two games and three fumble recoveries, two by defensive tackle Carl Simpson. 
The Bears have created nine turnovers and turned the ball over five times. 
On offense, Wannstedt said he might give rookie first­rounder Rashaan Salaam his first start in an effort to boost the production. Robert Green leads the Bears with 199 yards and a 7 .4-yard average, but has been hindered by an ankle injury. 
Salaam, who won the Heis­man Trophy last season at Col­orado, has 131 yards, a 3.2­yard average and three touch­downs. 
"You have to do this sooner or later," Wannstedt said. "We were hoping it might be the week after our break, but he knows what's going on and what he has to do. In my mind, I'm getting ready to make him the guy." 
One area where the Bears appear to have a big edge is kicking. Kevin Butler, in his 12th year, is 6-for-6 on field­goal attempts, while Rams rookie Steve McLaughlin is 3­for-7. 
McLaughlin was 1-for-4 last week and was subjected to a tryout on Wednesday, outkick­ing two free agents to keep his job. He knows the pressure is still on. 
"Without a doubt, everybody will be watching," McLaughlin said. 

--·-~-----....--------------~--...--------------------~..._.----~-------~-,, 
1 I j 


Friday, September 22, 1995 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 29 1 1 
1 
' I 
I I 
1 


' 
l' 
I I 
~ 
I 1 I 
I' 
I 

' Arthur Andersen i Welcomes the Following 1995 University of Notre Dame 
....
and Saint Mary's College Graduates to Our Firm 

Christopher Andreski 
New York Office 
Thomas Borger 
Chicago Office 
Stanley Bowman 
Chicago Office 
C. Patrick Braley 
Atlanta Office 
Donato Capobianco 
Boston Office 
Jim Carr 
New York Office 
David Clear 
New York Office 
David Crawford 
Chicago Office 
Christine DeMott 
Pittsburgh Office 
Bret Dooley 
Minneapolis Office 
Jennifer Dowd 
New York Office 
Tracy Ellis 
Chicago Office 
Nicholas Galassi 
Chicago Office 
Sarah Haiman 
Denver Office 
Michelle Hiigli 
Chicago Office 
Sarah Ireton 
Chicago Office 
Michael Jarosky 
Chicago Office 
John Jennings 
Chicago Office 
Keith Kooman 
Chicago Office 
Jason Langan 
New York Office 
Stephanie Lausier 
Chicago Office 
James Locke 
Washington, D. C. Office 
Catherine Lupo 
Chicago Office 
Erik Maier 
Atlanta Office 
Alexander Marchetti 
Chicago Office 
Ryan Martin 
Orange County Office 
Kristen Martina 
Chicago Office 
Kristen Mikolyzk 
Chicago Office 
Michael Molnar 
New York Office 
Lisa Monaco 
New York Office 
Laura Mossey 
Atlanta Office 
Sara Noe 
Chicago Office 
Mary Pelican 
Chicago Office 
Jason Pett 
Baltimore Office 
Lisa Powers 
Chicago Office 
Michael Riggs 
Chicago Office 
Ricardo Rios 
Pittsburgh Office 
Christopher Rosen 
Chicago Office 
Jeanne Schloegel 
Milwaukee Office 
Timothy Shannon 
Chicago Office 
Eric Shultz 
Washington, D. C. Office 
Kara Smith 
New York Office 
Stephen Soderling 
Chicago Office 
John Starr 
Washington, D. C. Office 
John Taliaferro Ill 
Washington, D. C. Office 
Randy Torres 
New York Office 
Dennis Verdico 
Chicago Office 
Joseph Wagner 
Baltimore Office 
Margaret Zimmerman 
Chicago Office 


\ 


page 30 The Observer • SPORTS 

Soccer 
continued from page 36

Mason signs new 
team's depth. "Indiana have a lot of experi­enced players returning," said

deal with Knicks 
Notre Dame head coach Mike Berticelli. "They also have some talented freshmen in the

Associated Press Pat Riley, started only 11 of the lineup. They are a very talent­
77 games he played last sea­NEW YORK son, and averaged 9.9 points, a ed and well coached team." 
The Irish, whose inexperi­Anthony Mason, whose pro­career-high 8.4 rebounds and enced backfield hurt them infessional basketball career be­3.1 assists. He led the Knicks in their two losses last weekend,gan in Turkey and culminated shooting at 57 percent (287 of 

with the NBA's Sixth Man 507). 
have been experimenting with Award last season, signed a A native of Queens, Mason a 4-5-1 scheme in practice this multiyear contract Thursday to was drafted by Portland in the 
week. While they may not play with this alignment, theremain with the New York third round of the 1988 draft emphasis has· been on shoring

Knicks. out of Tennessee State before Negotiations with Mason, a 6-playing a season in Turkey. up their defense. Freshman foot-7, 250-pound forward, be­He sandwiched brief stints 
midfielder/defender Matt gan almost immediately after with New Jersey and Denver Johnson, who has started all the NBA's 2 1/2-month lockout around time in the CBA and 
five games this season, may be moved to sweeper, and fellow

was lifted Monday. USBL before hooking on with They intensified Wednesday the Knicks in 1991. 
freshman Matt Mahoney, if healthy, might play the stopper

... when Mason and agent Don In four seasons, he's aver­Cronson met with Knicks gen­aged 8.1 points and 6. 9 re­position in front of him. eral manager Ernie Grunfeld bounds. 
Mahoney is recovering from an for several hours at a New York "I think he has just scratched ankle sprain suffered in the 
season opener. Junior Brian

hotel. the surface of his potential," Engesser and sophomore David
Late Wednesday evening, said new Knicks coach Don they reached agreement on the Nelson.' 
Cutler will likely remain at marking back.

contract. No terms were an­'He'll have a lot of fun playing "We feel we need to strength­
nounced. for me. He'll be put in situa­en our defense, so we put an"He rolled the dice and it tions that he has never been in extra defender in the back,"came up 7," Grunfeld said of before that I think he will be 
Mason, who turned down a successful at." 
said Berticelli. "Right now we 

three-year, $3 million deal last season and reportedly wound up with a deal worth $20 mil­lion for five years. 
"Anthony got rewarded. He got what he wanted; a contract that he earned." 
Added Mason, 28, "I have al­ways thought of myself as a person who could handle pres­sure. I played with 100 percent effort every night and the rest took care of itself." 
Mason who was suspended in each of the last two seasons af­ter disputes with former coach 
GREAT \VALL 
Voted # 1 Oriental Restaurant 1991, 1992 and 1993! Szechuan· Cantonese· American
•cSunday Buffet Brunch -Every SundayJ 
$8.95 for Adults 
53.95 for Children under 10 
(219)272-7376 130 Dlxleway S. (US 3lln Roseland) at Randall's Inn. South Bend. IN 
Friday, September 22, 1995 

are just experimenting, trying to stop the bleeding." 
"We just have to pick up our intensity," said Johnson. "We especially need to work harder on defense. I'm looking to just go out there, be aggressive, and play good hard defense. Indi­ana will be waiting to capitalize on our mistakes, so we'll have to try to limit our mistakes as much as possible." 
If the Irish change their over­all scheme, the team nay start two attacking midfielders and just one forward, probably freshman Ben Bocklage or se­nior Josh Landman. Bill Lanza, who was hampered by a hip strain last week, may see time at midfielder along with junior Konstantin Koloskov. 
"Our whole system has been changed in practice this week," said Koloskov, who scored Notre Dame's only goal against Seton Hall. "If we play well on defense and play with more intensity, we will have a better chance of winning." 
Sunday's match against Boston College will mark only the second time the two teams have met. The Eagles come into the game 3-3, 1-3 in the Big East. Two of the team's losses have come against ranked opponents, including a 3-2 loss to #1 Virginia and a 2­1 defeat at the hands of #16 Boston University. 
Boston College's Paul Keegan, who scored just 5 goals last season, has already amassed 5 in 6 games this year, and mid­fielder Anthony Buckley has 2 goals and 2 assists for 6 points. The Eagle defense has been questionable, as they have surrendered nine goals in six games, and they have had to make changes in the goalkeep­ing area. 
"They are another strong team in the Big East," said Berticelli. "They have quite a few strong junior and senior players, and have been able to recruit a lot of talented foreign players." 
"We have to come back and 
realize we are the same team 
we were a few weeks ago," said 
Berticelli. "We just have to 
come back out and play attack­
ing soccer." 

server 

is now accepting applications for: 
Accent Film Critics Accent Music Critics Accent Literary Critics 
Please submit one page personal statement to Krista Nannery in 314 LaFortune by 2 p.m. 9122. 
•  •  
•••••••••••••  Tickets are $25 each. Please show your ticket stub in order to claim the tickets. ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 333989 839046 839251 843427 940963 843611 Alternates: 333998 839060 839252 843509 940976 843614 830124 839063 839256 843521 940979 843778 830417 830135 839066 839295 843542 940981 940858 940907  ••••••••••••••••••  
830152  839118  839326  843596  941023  940859  830419  
830167  839131  839332  843618  941035  941238  839069  
830222  839132  839389  843630  941043  941263  941095  
830281  839182  839390  843634  941063  941326  941181  
• ••••••  830333 830354 830364 830400 830426 830434 830476  839199 839207 839216 839217 839225 839226 839250  839392 841007 843015 843361 843364 843381 843425  843652 843745 940864 940898 940917 940927 940942  941070 941106 941146 941180 941197 941202 941212  941341 941357 941370  941189 830428 839067 839068  ••••••••••••••  
:  STUDENT UNION BOARD  :  




, ...,, ·· · """:!t.•""r,r• ._...,. ... .,. •. ••••.•• ~·•••• .... ,..;.-;w""---., .. ·..,·~--~.,. ..'.,~r;'y;,._:..._···>·~-.... ·. ·•· -­
...."fft.••.....••••••..'*il-••••·•••••.a.a•.a••.i£• ....... ...: ... ~ ....... ..................... 4.. . . . 
----~-1 
4 
' 
1 
~ 

1 The Observer • SPORTS page 31 1 1 
coach Debbie Brown said of the allowing us to find a hole." I 5'10" sophomore. Off the court, Lee's laid-back I I
Lee 

"She has the capability to be and cooperative demeanor al­a great collegiate player at lows for the development of the 
continued from page 36 

either position, but she is defi­this year's team most potent 
nitely more comfortable out­weapon, its team unity. Ask
would be a wise decision. 

side." any member of the 1995 Irish
However, anyone who has seen 

team , coach or player. for the
Lee play outside this season 

In addition to Lee's individual key to its success and you will
can understand why the outside 

performance, she remains, on hear the same answer.
attack is her "natural" position. 

and off the court, a total team "We have great team chem­
With the skill and intelligence 

player. On the court, Lee's ver­istry," Lee said. "Everyone
Lee displays, the word "natur­

satility allows the Irish team to helps each other out and we
al" could be considered an 

mix up their offense in order to are all very dedicated to theunderstatement. 
manipulate the opponent's goals we have set for ourselves
In only eight games, Lee has 

defense. In addition to class­this season." 
managed to collect 122 kills 

mate Angie Harris's potent out­
and 12 service aces. In addi­

side attack, and Junior co-cap­When asked about Lee's off­
tion to Lee's power, her athleti­

tain Jenny Birkner's weak side court contribution to the team,
cism makes her one of the de­

ambush, opponents now have Coach Brown attributes
fensive forces of the Irish, an 

to worry about a versatile, yet Jaimie's cooperative attitude to
area which has led the team 

powerful Lee who can hit, the great team attitude this
out of many pressure situations 

block. and return anything that season.
thus far this season. Lee has 

comes her way. "The whole team in general
contributed 72 digs, 1 solo 

"Jaimie helps put a lot of this season seems to be mesh­
block, and 13 block assists to 

pressure on the other teams," ing together better," Brownthe Irish effort. 
Brown said. said. "With her, Angie, and Jenny ~It has a much lighter per­
"Jaimie is a powerful, strong 

up at the net, teams are forced sonality and we are just having
and smart hitter," Irish head
The Observer/ Jake Peters 

to move their blockers around, a fun time." 
Carey May (3) and Jaimie Lee (4) will lead the Irish defense as they 
ized overmatched opponents so far this season.
take on Texas and Colorado this weekend. 
Harris leads the Irish with 145 kills and 89
V-Ball 

digs, while teammate Lee has recorded 122 kills 

and 72 digs despite sharing time at middle block­
continued from page 36 

er and outside hitter. The pair has simply been improve their overall record to 7-2. outstanding in each of the three tournaments 
Junior swing hitter Rachel Wacholder has been Notre Dame has competed in this year. outstanding this season, tallying a team high 142 kills and 152 ,digs. Senior Leah Williams, who Junior outside hitter Jenny Birkner is appar­
has amassed 92 kills and a whopping 77 blocks ently fully recovered from the ankle injury she so far this year, provides leadership and expe­suffered just prior to the start of the season. Despite being limited by her ankle early in the
rience for the up and coming Buffalo squad. "It is important that we play hard and maintain season, Birkner has emerged to rank second on 
some consistency this weekend," said junior mid­the Irish with 79 digs and a 0.81 blocks per game dle blocker Jennifer Rouse. "If we do everything average. 
we need to do, we should come away with the "It's good to see her at full strength for the f1rst sweep." time this season," sai«WJrown prior to last week­end. "Kristina Ervin did a great job stepping in 
-, 

The Longhorns and Buffaloes will have their for her, and now that she's back, our depth at hands full trying to contain what might be the outside hitter will be that much better." 
Even when on the road, the Irish are one of the top 1-2 punch in the nation. Big East Player of 
the Week Angie Harris and Jamie Lee, MVP of top teams in the nation. However, there's just the Big Four Classic two weeks ago, have terror-nothing like using the home court advantage to 
psyche out the visiting team. 
Accounting, Finance, MIS, & CAPP Majors 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN Invites you to a presentation and reception 
''PUBLIC ACCOUNTING: THE FIRST FEW YEARS'' 
+A panel of recent graduates will discuss their experiences in the business world 
+Arthur Andersen representatives will be available for questions 
Sunday, September 24, 1995 -7:00P.M. Monogram Room All Classes Welcome Dress is Casual 
-. 


f 

~ 
t page 32 The Observer • SPORTS 
• WOMEN'S SOCCER 
' I 
•I Daws to start in New Jersey
' 
,i 
By DAVE TREACY 
Sports Writer
' •I 
This is a dream weekend for 
I 
coach Chris Petrucelli. 
' l ~ 
The women's soccer squad travels to New Jersey this weekend to play Big East con­ference foes Rutgers and Seton 
! ~ 
Hall. These two teams, while 
respectable opponents, don't ~ figure to create many problems r for the second-ranked Irish. 
But. even better, the coach is playing in his own backyard. 
"I lived ten minutes away from Rutgers, so I get to go home this weekend. I'm pretty excited," Petrucelli said. 
.It won't be a weekend of h.ome cop_klng (or the squad, though. 
With games today and Sunday, the team will have to maintain its concentration play­ing in a different environment. 
Rutgers, 4-1 this season with their lone blemish a 2-0 contest against seventh ranked Vir­ginia, plays physical soccer. 
"Rutgers will be a physical 
"enigmatique!" Fran<;ois Gerard 
THE DIFFERENCE 
l 
HAIR • SKIN • NAILS • TANNING • BouTIQUE 
WE ARE A PERSONAL TOUCH SALON with high quality products and master designers. Why pay less when you can say you've had the best -in service, price, and quality 
-at THE CASTLE & Co.© 
A FULL-SERVICE SALON WITH COMPETITIVE PRICES 
•;272-0312. 
STATE RoAD 23 & IRONWOOD . I ·. JusT M1N'UTES FROM CAMPUS 
\ ~ 
team, which is pretty consistent with most East coast pro­grams," Petrucelli predicted. "I expect them to sit back and defend against us, to try and capitalize on any mistakes we make." 
These mistakes, if the team plays as it has so far this sea­son, figure to be few and far between. 
Goalkeepers Jen Renola and Emily Loman have saved a total of 12 shots this season, and have earned six straight shut­outs so far, a school record. 
Much of the defensive success comes not only from the back line of Kate Sobrero, Ashley Scharff, and Kate Fisher, but from the offensive pressure the team puts on the opposing squad. 
The dominance this weekend, however, factors to be much, much worse. 
Midfielder Cindy Daws is slat­ed to start taking over for freshman Shannon Boxx, who performed admirably in Daws' absence. 
Daws is attempting to come 
THE CASTLE &Co.© 
back from pulled quadriceps muscles in both legs, and is making her frrst start this sea­son after playing limited min­utes in two contests. 
"We're going to play Cindy back into shape," Petrucelli said. 
Sunday's opponent, Seton Hall, is in its second year as a program. 
Inexperience will definitely be a problem for the Pirates, who will most likely try to simply stay alive against the hungry Irish attack, led by forward Michelle McCarthy. 
"They'll also play a defensive game, trying to keep down our scoring opportunities," Petru­celli predicted. 
All in all, Notre Dame has to feel very confident in their chances over this eastern swing. 
"We're pretty confident entering these games," said Petrucelli. "But we're confi­dent in every game. We feel like we're playing very com­petitve soccer right now." 
That seems to be a pretty fair assessment. 
Friday, September 22, 1995 
The Observer/ Mike Ruma 

Michelle McCarthy (above) figures to see increased scoring opportuni­ties with the return of All-American Cindy Daws to the starting lineup. 
Happy  From  
Birthday Theresa!  Lou  
&  
Gan  



~._· ~ '95 
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 7 
11:00 AM-STEPAN CENTER 
3 & 6 MILE RUNS AND PANCAKE BREAKFAST 
T-SHIRTS TO ALL FINISHERS REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS $5.00 IN ADVANCE & $6.00 DAY OF RACE STUDENT AND STAFF DIVISIONS 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL RECSPORTS AT 1-610 

NORTH VILLAGE i LANDING 
FRIDAY EVENING 
4:30 pm-8:00 pm 
8:00 pm-ll:OOpm Music & Dancing! 
THE GRAND BUFFET 
•Over 20 Entrees 
•Hot 
Vegetables 

•New 
Polish Items Added 

•
Array of mouthwateringdesserts 


Music & Dancing put on by Ned Swanson of Pro Show 
NO COVER CHARGE! 
SUNDAY MORNING 
10:00 am-2:00pm 
PRIME RIB BRUNCH 
•Prime 
Rib 

•Peel-n-Eat 
Shrimp 

•All 
breakfast items 

•
Array of mouthwatering desserts 


Located at the North Village Mall 52565 U.S. 31/33 North ; South Bend, IN 46637 (219) 272-8180 

STUDENT UNION BOARD 

-------------·------------------~---------~---­
Friday, September 22, 1995 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 33 
NOTRE DAME MEN'S SOCCER 7:30 p.m. • Friday • vs. Nationally 5th-ranked Indiana 1:00 p.m. • Sunday • vs. BIG EAST's Boston College  Nationally-ranked NOTRE DAME MEN'S TENNIS 7:30 p.m. • Friday • vs. Nationally-ranked Texas Eck Tennis Pavilion  
Nationally Sth·ranked NOTRE DAME VOLLEYBALL 7:30 p.m. • Friday • vs. Nationally 17th-ranked Texas 7:00 • Saturday • vs. Nationally 15th-ranked Colorado at Mishawaka High 2:00p.m. • Sunday • vs. Nationally 15th-ranked Colorado  Nationally-ranked NOTRE DAME CROSS COUNTRY 4:15 p.m. • Friday • Women's National Catholic Meet 5:00 • Friday • Men's National Catholic Meet Both Meets at the Notre Dame Golf Course  

·­



The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 22, 1995 
offeringFrisbee, Inner-tube UI and aff Racquetball Singl~ f{)r both men and womt!iJ:l· ·. The 
entries begin Se 't. 2.0 and 
the deadline i · ··· · 1 at 5iOO p.m. The tain's meeting for Wa ·.... · olo is 5;30 p.m. and Frisbee at 
.. 6:15p.m. on Sept ~8 in the Joyce Center Auditorium. Any questions pltH'I,~e ~all 1x6100; ·' < .··· 
Shakleelitamins Herb 
Roseland 
272-0606 
,I 
~ 
• CROSS COUNTRY 

Thirty schools to compete at Burke 
WfiiiD~~ ®ff ~nn ffil~W®Lf~~ 
Daily Lunch Specials 4 TV Screens 
ID.)~If[~ 

ByB.J. HOOD 
Spons Writer 
The Notre Dame cross country team will run again on Friday at the National Catholic In­vitational here at Notre Dame's Burke Memorial Golf Course. The Irish hope to build on the success of last weekend, when both the men and women won the Buckeye Invitational at Ohio State. 
However, head Coach Joe Piane thinks this weekend will be more of a test. "It (the Buckeye Invitational) was a very good start...that may have been our easiest meet all year." Piane said. "(The National Catholic Invitational) will be a little tougher for both the men and the women." 
This is the fifteenth consecutive year Notre Dame will host the National Catholic Invitational. Thirty schools will participate in the meet. Depaul, Marquette, and Dayton are among the schools coming to Notre Dame. The Notre Dame women have won the meet the last three years. The men have won five of the last seven years. 
Maureen Kelly, Amy Siegel, Mary Volland, and Kristen Dudas led the women's team at Ohio State. 
"They all ran exceptionally well," Piane noted. "On the men's side, we had four runners run together, so I was pleased with those guys." 
The four runners Piane spoke of are Joe Dunlop, Jason Rexing, Matt Althoff, and Derek Martis us. 
Volland said running at Notre Dame would help. "I definitely want to do well," Volland said. "There will be a lot of Notre Dame fans there." 
Piane thinks the host Irish can gain advantage, too. "It will give the runners a little lift-it will help," Piane said. 
WeeklySpecials 
Food and much more! 
Monday 25C Wings 
Tuesdar & Wednesday More than just wings! 
Thursday Fea~t for Four ~1995 
•50 
Wings 

•Curly 
Fries 


•One Drink Pitcher 

AsK AsouT OuR WALL OF FLAME 
838 University Center 6502 Grape Road 
(between Service Merchandise & Best Buy) 
Phone 273-0088 


f I .l L 
j 


Friday, September 22, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 35 
Seven-piece neil-raisin Band straight from Ohio 
t 
1
• 

~} TONIGHT 
&SATURDAY 
17

-•TONIGHT f CUSHING 
at the LOFT 

8&10:30 
TWO BUCKS TWO BUCKS (Sunday at 2. too) 
9PM 

FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
i-IEu.. o. t>'n ... ]: 1-\II~E 
Jus,-:SI\'1 I• 
EN UNFAI Rl-'1 "Pte\< E 1:>
/ W" '1l:>o 'T 1-\~•E.lo 
To OfFEP-Ovr. Su•C..ERES,.­
'SA'\ h? I 1-\t<t• ~.,.~ .... ~To \>o 
f\poL-~'-1 \o !\IE RoTC. , IJ.l 1..-11 1-f ... Ttl•~ -pp..o c,.Rflm fo It We.'t>I'IE.'f.l>l>'\ s l-s \)r<fllill-··· [p.fttOOI" · 
/ 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
"OR\Git{,I..L rlt>-~OR. •.. Wt>.IT, \-\ERE'S "LESS 500\UM; fit-.\\) \-\ERE'S "UTE'.' 
At{\) 1-\t.Rt..'S "l£5'5 Ff>-T."_,..p!l!lllll!!!~ 
.. 
DILBERT 
I WANT YOU TO 
STUDY OUR OPTIONS FO~ PROJECT" ZEBRI\" 
AND MI\KE A 
f'ECOMMENDAilON 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 Microscopic 34Uian-­
1 Open a bit 
35 Inventory5 Attach system. for short 10 "Four Weddings 39 Three-time Funeral" British Open golf 14 Ecce--champ 15 Ball in the game 40 Reflected on. petanque with "over" 16 Like some 41 Part 3 of the quip college volleyball 45 Musician's 17 Start of a quip equipment 20 Switch positions handler 21 Fred's familial 46 Singer, in a way partner 47 Change 22 Pry 48 Mark 23 Justice Fortas 51 --Tunas, 24 Garment with Cuba laces 54 End of the quip 25 Part 2 of the quip 57 Modern sci. 31 "Wanted" poster course name 58 Stop work. 32 100 paise slangily 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

W\1t>.T \~ I Wf>-\'{\ \.£SS Ff>-T AND LESS SALT ? W\111-T DISTING\J\'3\1~5 ''LITE" tROt.\ T\1't:5£. 0\1-\t.RS ? !XlE'S Tt\E ''ORIG\Nf>..L FlA~OR. Pf>..C~G'E:. lt.'ti'L'( 11-\fiT 11-\E Cl\1-\ERS Tt>-'ST£. \)1\=ft.Rt.~T? 
1\ppP.P.EN~\.."\ 1TIIoSE i<Espot<~IBL-~ FoR Ttlt\ fo1!.6!0r ~E Ot..t>E~T P.ut..E 
\1'1 CAR-rOOI'III'I~: 

DAVE KELLETT YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1995 (For your personalized daily Jeane Dixon horoscope, based on your own date of birth, call 1-900-988-7788. Your phone company will bill you 99 
cent~ a minute.) 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Your many admirers find you more entertaining and on target than ever. Maintain close contact with family and friends living at a distance. Romance will deepen with the pas­sage of time. 1996 brings exciting business or career developments. You get a chance to try something entirely different. Next June could find you settling into a new home. Take some overdue vacation time. 
BTLLWATTFRSON 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: teen heart-throb Scott FRA!'l\:.l'l, t.'t~ UP.:. Wf:>..S I'LEl-\1'1 
Baio, singer Joan Jett, model Shari CCl\AI'L\C.t>-1£.0 BEFO/iE 
Belafonte, singer Debbie Boone. ARIES (March 21-April 19):
11-\t. I'C>TATO C~\PS. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
I'LL GET 
RIGHT 
ON IT! 

44 Sibelius's "Valse· 45Hied 48 Skiers' aid 
49 Gulf of -(Baltic offshoot) channel
50 Opposed to. in 
• 
dialect 56 Cable channel 

with a special Observer ad. 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phon!}: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

Your imaginative approach to your work is an integral part of your sue­cess. A platonic relationship proves very comforting when things go awry. Share secrets with loved ones. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Do not neglect your financial inter­ests. Be willing to pay top dollar to get the best professional advice. Set aside more time for teen-agers; they need your personal attention. 
GEMINI (May 2 I -June 20): Dress to impress if you will be in the spotlight. Your literary or artistic talents will be rewarded with money or public recognition. Be hospitable. Roll out the red carpet for a drop-in visitor. 
CANCER (June 2 I -July 22): Spruce up your home. Cleaning out closets and slapping on a new coat of paint will make a big difference. Neighbors may try to involve you in a major project. Join in only if truly interested. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Sorry 
-an office romance is not in your 
qest interest. Those starting new 
businesses find that financing is 
more readily available than in the 
• OF INTEREST 
~~~;}!.fr

iij!.S.A. students and alumni wUI be tailgating In 
t of DeBartolo one hour before tomorrow's Texas me. 
• MENU Notre Dame 

North South 
Hawaiian Pizza Meat Lasagna BBQ Beer Sandwich Seasoned Mini Bakers Spinach Tortellini Mixed Vegetables 
Saint Mary's 

B'aked Citrus Halibut Chinese Pepper Steak Rice 
-
51 Polygraph tailer 52 Caldwell's "God's Little--" 53 Inner Hebrides 

Celebrate 
island 55 Broadcast 

a friend's birthday 
past. Joint enterprises enjoy favor­able influences. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Meet your current financial obliga­lions before incurring new ones. An element of surprise is necessary for a successful business presentation. Do not overreact to a friend's criticism. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): A family member could disappoint you. You may be forced to spend more money than you can afford. People at a distance will share good news or offer valuable counsel. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Family members may not under­stand a close personal relationship. Romance becomes increasingly pas­sionate! Careful shopping helps you stay within your budget. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Some carefully laid plans may have to be set aside. Do not despair. Something better is in the works! Give an older person your help and sympathy. Travel to distant places is best postponed. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Determination is the key to progress. Your efforts to conquer a special fear prove successful. Count on your mate or partner to give you strong support. You feel more set-tied than in the past. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): A social invitation may not be espe­cially exciting but it will do you good to get out and about. You hold all the cards where romance is con­cemed. Are your ready for a penna­nent commitment? 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
Caution is essential in money mat­
ters. Speak your mind. Fwnily mem­
bers will respect you for your can­
dor. Avoid taking the people you 
love for granted. Spend more quality 
time with those closest to your heart. 
59 --asoul eo Stet's opposite 61 Construction 
equipment 62 Logic diagram 
DOWN 
1 Charlie Chan comment 2 Most common papal name 3 Book after Joel 4 Scuffle 5 Job, for one &Nap 
1 Word with citizen or purpose 
8Ye-Shoppe 
9 Ariz. neighbor 10Yield 11 What a monkey 
senses. in a saying 12 Catch sight of 13 More than like 18--breath 
19 Words starting many bumper stickers 
23Callit­24 Kind of blast 25 Make lace 26 Hebrew judge 27 Racket 28 Some finals 29 Surpass 30 Parody 34 Use a kiln 
35 Four-time Indy winner 36 Item listed on an 
I.R.S. form 37 Marsh 380utofthe 
ordinary 39 Wand wielder 40 "The Bell Jar" 
author 41 Comfort 42 Beat work 43 Channel 
swimmer Gertrude 




-
SPORTS 

page 36 Friday, September 22, 1995 
8VIUIYIIU. 


Longhorns, Buffs to challenge home dominance of Irish 
Ranked squads look to upset undefeated Notre Daine 
By MIKE DAY Spons Writer 

Some so-called experts say that the idea of a home court advantage is merely a state of mind. They claim that, to a certain degree, the visiting team psyches themselves out before ever stepping foot on the playing sur­face. 
Well, if that's the case, then oppo­nents of the Irish volleyball team had better find a good shrink before visiting the Joyce Center. 
bly the nation's top freshman in outside hitter Demetria Sance. The highly regarded outside hitter leads the team with 107 kills and 104 digs. All-Ameri­can candidate Angie Breitenfield has recorded 101 kills, 75 digs, and 15 blocked shots in seven matches. 
"This might be the biggest weekend of the regular season," said junior mid­dle blocker Jef\. Briggs. "This is the first time since USC (a four game win) that we had to prove something. We will have to execute our fundamentals to beat them." 
Colorado will also be in town for a pair of matches on Saturday night and Sunday afternoon. The No. 15 ranked Buffaloes enter the weekend having won four consecutive matches to 
see V-BALL I page 31 
When Texas and Colorado come to town this weekend, they will be facing more than the 8-0 and No. 7 ranked Notre Dame squad. They will encounter an Irish team that has won 27 con­secutive matches on their home court dating back to the end of the 1993 season. 
"I would say it has a lot to do with the familiar environ­ment and the confidence level," said head coach Debbie Brown.. "It's a mat­ter of going into every match thinking we have an oppor­tunity to win." 

The No. 17 ranked Lady Longhorns will take their best shot at snapping the streak tonight at 8:00 p.m. Although Texas enters the match with a mediocre 3-4 record, three of the four losses have been to top-five The Observer/Jake Pete"' opponents. Junior ~iddl~ blocker Je~ Briggs looks to l.~ad an 

The Longhorns boast possi-aggress1ve lnsh attack agamst top-20 compet1t1on. 

By DYLAN BARMMER SportS Writer 
After dropping two tough Big

• 
East games last weekend, the Notre Dame men's soccer team will be / tested once again this weekend, as they play host to #5 ranked Indiana on Friday night and Big East neme­sis Boston College on Sunday after­noon. 
The Irish come into this week­end's games at 3-2, 1-2 in the Big East. The two straight losses dropped the Irish out of the top 25 in the ISAA soccer poll, where they had previously held a #6 ranking. 
The Hoosiers of Indiana strut into 

Irish battle for state supremacy 
Highly touted Indiana a national title contender 
Alumni Field this Friday night at #5 in that poll, coming off a 1-0 win last Sunday against #14 St. Louis and boasting a 4-1-1 record. While the Irish have met with much suc­cess at home over the past few sea­sons (opponents have not scored against the Irish at Alumni Field in the last 317 minutes of action), their record against the Hoosiers is less impressive. Indiana holds a 15-1-1 edge over the Irish, with Notre Dame's only victory coming at home in 1987. 
Indiana, who lost to Virginia in last year's championship game, brings a very talented team to Alumni Field, with an especially strong defense led by senior goal­keeper Scott Coufal. 
The Hoosiers have outscored the competition 6-2 this season, and Coufal has recorded a shutout in all four of their games. Coufal boasts a microscopic goals against aver­age of 0.29 so far this season, and has made 22 saves while allowing just 2 goals. 
Notre Dame will have to look out for senior forward Jeff Bannister, who last season collected 10 goals and 26 points. Bannister has yet to score this season, however, as six different players have scored all 6 Indiana goals, a testimony to the 
see SOCCER I page 30 
Football Women's Soccer 


• Cross·Country opens home season 
vs. Texas September 23, 11 :30 EST 
at Rutgers September 22, 7:00 p.m. 
see page 34
at Seton Hall September 24, 1:00 p.m. 
Volleyball 
Cross Country
vs. Texas September 22, 8:00p.m. 

• Women's Soccer heads to New Jersey 
vs. Colorado September 23, 7:00 p.m. 
National Catholic Inv. September 22 
see page 32 
Men's Soccer 
SMC Sports 

• White Sox win second straight 
vs. Indiana September 22, 7:30 p.m. 
Volleyball at Albion September 25 
vs. Boston Coil. September 24, 1:00 p.m. 
see page 22 



state of Texas. You have the world at your fee and all the attention an egomaniac could eve crave. Your games are played in front of capac­
ity-filled stadiums and in front of thousands more watching at home on television. Your every move is worshipped by people who identify football as the form of religion and you are their saints. 
Now, the time comes to make a decision on what hap­ens after your prep career. For many, it is a relati 
..-------------...,.-----~-----------------~-­
Friday, September 22, 1995 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA 

IRISH ON THE OFFENSIVE. 
II • 

Filling holes, voids key to Texas success 
By MIKE NORBUT Sporn Editor 
Tony Brackens is out with a leg fracture. Robert Farmer is out with torn ligaments in his knee. 
That means whoever steps into the spotlight should win the battle between the Notre Dame offense and the Texas defense. 
Brackens, however. meant quite a bit to the Longhorns de­fense. Farmer was one ofmany that could carry the load for the Irish. 
Uke maybe Autry Denson? 
"Autry Denson is a true fresh­man," offensive coordinator Dave Roberts said. "Each prac­tice he gets better, and I think you'll see him step in for Robert Farmer." 
Denson, who was switched from defensive back to tailback just two weeks ago, has given the Irish offense the spark they lacked against Northwestern. He's also given Randy Kinder time to rest every once in a while. 
"Randy Kinder is a very. very good back, and he is starting to play that way." defensive coor­dinator and interim coach Bob Davie said. 
And if he can get by Texas linebacker Tyson King, he might further prove the point. 
At 6-0, 225 pounds, King is not a veritable force. But he makes up for it by getting all over the field in a matter of seconds. 
He recorded 19 tackles against Hawaii two weeks ago, and is the team leader in sacks.. His two caused fumbles also show he can hit. 
So once again, Notre Dame's success will rest on the shoul­ders of the offensive line. 
"I think right now, some of the youth on the offensive line, the Chris Clevengers, the Mike Doughtys are starting to get better." Roberts said. "I think the experience is starting to show." 
Freshmen Mike Rosenthal and Jerry Wisne saw time last week against Vanderbilt, though Wisne made a quick exit following a sack. 
But on the whole, the Notre Dame offensive line has contin­ually improved, garnering the praise of the Notre Dame coaching staff. 
"I sincerely think we have the chance to be a truly dominating offensive team," Davie said. 
Add to that the fact that Texas' most feared defensive player will not be on the field, and the Irish may be able to dominate in the trenches. 
If they click, some holes may open, and you won't have to be anybody special to fill that void. 
The Observer/Rob Finch 

Freshman Autry Denson will see more time with Robert Farmer out. 

By MIKE NORBUT Sporn Editor 
Bob Davie has been on the lookout for speed on his recruiting ventures the past two years. He won't have to look too far to find it Saturday. Texas is loaded with speed. "They just seem to be playing on all cylinders," Notre 
Dame offensive coordinator Dave Roberts said. And they have a turbo booster to match. Across the board, the Longhorns live on their fast 
legs. But it's most noticeable in the wide receivers. 
"They have got an awful lot of offense, so our sec­ondary will definitely, definitely be tested this week," the Irish defensive coordinator and interim coach said. "I think it is critical that we don't give up the big play and we don't give up the home run." 

Which means the Notre Dame secondary will have to keep both eyes on Biletnikoff Award candidate Mike TheObserver/KevinKiau Adams, The Longhorns' leading receiver has ten The Irish defensive line will need to put pressure on Texas. catches for 186 yards and two touchdowns. And that's 
LONGHORNS ON THE OffENSIVE. 
II • 

Notre Dame feels need for Texas speed 
just in two games. 
Across from Adams will be Justin McLemore, anoth­er big-play target for quarterback James Brown. Brown went 18-36 for 306 yards againt Pittsburgh last week. But he also threw three interceptions. 
But it's his presence on the field that worries Davie. 
"The thing is, since James Brown has come in as quarterback during the season last year, it seems to me that their chemistry is really now at an all-time high," he said. "They seem to be playing with a lot of confidence." 
As is the Irish defense, which limited Vanderbilt to just 94 total yards last week. But this week's test, how­ever, will be centered more around the pass rush and coverage rather than stopping a short little running back. 
Kory Minor and John McLaughlin, who helped improve the Irish pass rush against the Commodores, will need to do the same to save the secondary, which may be running all over creation trying to catch the fleet-footed Longhorns. 
The Observer/Kevin Klau 

Brian Magee and Shawn Wooden. 
Texas Passing Attack 
VS. By Mike Norbut 
Notre Dame Secondary 
I
t's no secret. Notre Dame does not have the world's best sec­ondary. Northwestern abused them on out and corner pat­terns. Purdue ran over them once they got past the Irish linebackers. 
Texas may do both. 
With talented receivers, the Longhorns will look to pass all day. Their speed will get them open, their strength may get them into the end zone. 
Notre Dame's secondary will be tested, to say the least. But they'll need more than just their talents to pass. 
If defensive coordinator Bob Davie does not have a scheme devised to put pressure on Texas quarterback James Brown, it may be a long day for Allen Rossum and Shawn Wooden. The two had success against Vanderbilt, thanks in part to a good pass rush and some timely blitzes. But Mike Adams is pretty quick. He may get open even with pressure. 
Photo courtesy of T exes Sports Information 

Longhorn quarterback James Brown. 


page 3 
I 
•• •JAMES BROWN 
,. 




D
on't let the name passes for 306 and two 
fool you. The touchdowns. 
Godfather of Soul, Trailing the Panthers 
James Brown, will not 27-21 with five minutes 
be commanding the left in the fourth quar­
Texas offense Saturday. ter, Brown led a 56­
That's probably yard Longhorn drive 
unfortunate for the with two completions Irish. While James for 36 yards and rushed Brown the singer is for nine yards before lithe and entertaining, handing off to lUcky James Brown the Williams, who scored quarterback is the game-win­.6-0, 190 and ning touchdown. efficient. Texas returned B r o w n an interception 
earned the for a score to win 
starting posi-38-21. 
tion last year Hauling in 
as a red-shirt • ...._ many of Brown's 
freshman, the "·,...a ~passes is junior 
first Longhorn Brown wide receiver 
rookie to debut Mike Adams. 
as a starting quarter-Adams, a nominee for 
back. He has not lost a the Biletnikoff Award, 
start in his Texas honoring college foot­
career, posting a 6-0 ball's best receiver, is 
record. averaging 93 receiving 
Brown's rookie num-yards per game. He 
hers were impressive, caught five passes for 
boasting a six-to-one 88 yards and a touch­
touchdown to inter-down against Pitt. 
ception percentage. He Adams missed most of 
had an efliciency rating last season with a knee 
of 176.99, which would injury, but has returned 
have been tops in the to average more than 
NCAA but Brown fell 18 yards per catch. 
two pass-attempts-per­The Longhorn back­
game short of eligibility. field features a pair of 
He has continued to rookies who have ·impress· this season, already shown they are 
ranking 12th in the ready for the college 
NCAA in total offense. game. 
He completed nine At fullback, Ricky 
passes in 22 attempts Williams set a Texas 
for 210 yards in his first rushing record in his 
game against Hawaii. debut gaining 95 yards, Last weekend he led while classmate Wane Texas to a come-from­McGarity has looked 
behind victory over Pitt, impressive. 
completing 18 of 36 -Megan McGrath 
The Observer • IRISH EXTRA 
!!~ti~~:!~!.~fiiR I 
at who ho1r1Sw::the advantage 
~~ Qu:.erbacks 
James Brown ..·.·. < .. yo~ running or .e~s~1 he can also beat himsel£u Ron Powlus, tliotig unspectacular, is consistently solid. 
~~RunningBacksD 
Averaging overa hundred yards a game, Kinder has arrived/lliJ..]T's Ricl<y Willi ' Shon Mitchell are capable ofmaking plays.
D 00
Receiven 
The Irish have yet to see a compliment to Derrick Mayes emerge. Th~.L<?nghorn's Mike J\(l' •. NFL material and Jlistiri McLemore is soli ... •., 
~~Offensive Line 0 .. 
Judging by last ""eek's effort~ the Irish line i~~t:l"' ~inuing to progr~,~~;,:~ere theyshould ?~ 1s competent but lost tWo key starters from •·
D Defensive Line 00 
Even with standout Tony Bracken lost to injury; UT is big up front, something rhe Irish can o~ly dream about saying. Stonie Clark is a boulder~::;,:,, 
~~ Linebackers D 
The look ofthe Irish linebackers is intimidating enough, never mind their play~rriaking abilities. This is the soft spot ofthe Texas defense.
D Secondary 00 
Strong safety Tre Thomas has three picks already 
and has the luxuryoftwo solid corners. Woo4~n 
and Magee are fine butneed to do.too niuc~~·''Jt'/!'
D Special Teams [jJ 
The 'Horns bring a speedy retuner in Mike Adams, a punter who wears # 99 and canpunt and 
••.~;o:::i:m~LJ 
Very capable coordinators plus Lou Holtz back up in the press box equals a great coaching staff. John Mackovic needs a bigyear in 1995. "''"' 
II D
The Irish are still high on emotion, and Texas is coming into a rude joint. ~Tim Sherman 

• w 
.. STONIE CLARK 
1
hink that I shall never see, a nose guard as lovely as Stonie. 
As English and PLS majors all over the campus groan at this horrible butchering of Joyce Kilmer's poetry, it does seem an appropri­ate way to introduce Texas' Stonie Clark: nose guard, 
Henaissance 
kidney suffered man. in a car acci­
Clark is a dent. defensive line­This season, man and a Clark has made poet of some eight tackles in renown. An the Longhorns' imposing fig­first two games, ure at 6-1, 315 six of them solo. 
Clark

pounds, his goal-line stop in the closing seconds of Texas' 17-10 win over Oklahoma last season was named the Sports Illustrated "Defensive Play of the Year" for 1994. 
But off the football field, Clark has earned awards for writing. He took seventh out of 49 entrants in an Austin poetry competition and was asked by CBS to read one of his poems on the air during the Sun Bowl. 
He is working on an autobiography and has written a poem about the Texas/Oklahoma rivalry. The poem, enti­tled "The Tunnel," shows the native Texans' dedication, say­ing: 
"The players on the 
Friday, Septmber 22, 1995 
field can't help but feel fear/if you are behind when the time runs out/You are a loser for the entire year." 
Clark has done much to avoid this fate. A three-year letter-win­ner for Texas, he had 37 tackles last season, but missed the last two games of the year due 
to a lacerated 
Clark and the linebackers have been leading the Texas defense thus far. The Longhorns held Hawaii to just 309 total offen­sive yards in the season opener, forcing two turnovers. Against Pitt the defense allowed 380 yards, but had five turnovers. 
What's more, the squad held the Panthers in check while the Longhorns' offense mounted a fourth-quar­ter comeback. 
Outside linebacker Jason Reeves picked oiT a pass late in the Pitt game and returned it 45-yards for a touch­down, sealing the Pan­thers' fate as Texas went on to claim a 38­21 victory. 
-Megan McGrath 

-~------------------~--­
Friday, September22, 1995 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA page4 
LONGHORNS 

0  0  0  
1  2  3  4  Tot  PASSING  Comp  All  Pc1  Yds TO  tnt  Lg  FIELD GOALS  0-29  30-39  40-49  50+  Tot  
24  21  14  17  76  Brown  27  58  46.6  516  3  3  49  Dawson  1-1  1-1  Q..()  ()..0  2-2  
7  6  10  21  44  Watton  4  8  50.0  70  0  1  32  
PUNTING  No  Avg  Bk  Lg  
UT  Opp  RECEIVING  Rec  Yds  Avg  TO  Lg  Schuttia  5  40.0  0  55  
First downs  41  43  Adams  10  186  18.6  2  41  Vacek  2  36.0  0  44  
Total yards  936  669  Williams  5  115  23.0  0  49  
Total yards per game  468.0  344.5  Fitzgerald  4  63  15.6  1  32  KICKOFF RETURNS  No  Avg  TO  Lg  
Total offensive plays  135  156  Mclemore  4  59  14.8  0  19  Adams  3  21.7  0  26  
Avg. yards per play  6.9  4.4  Davis  2  69  34.5  0  49  
Rushing yards  350  361  White  2  50  25.0  0  41  PUNT RETURNS  No  Avg  TO  Lg  
Rushing yards per game  175.0  180.5  Bradley  2  23  11.5  0  12  Adams  3  4.7  0  8  
Rushing plays  69  96  Wallace  2  21  10.5  0  18  
Passing yards  566  328  INTERCEPTIONS  No  Yda  TO  Lg  
Passing yards per game  293.0  164.0  ALL-PURPOSE  Rush  Rae  Ret  Tot  Avg  Thomas  3  16  0  18  
Passes completed  31  26  Williams  165  115  0  260  140.0  Reeves  1  45  1  45  
Passes attempted  66  60  Adams  0  166  79  265  132.5  Carter  1  16  0  16  
Passes intercepted  4  5  M~chell  147  0  0  147  73.5  
Fumbles I Fumbles lost  4/1  6/2  Davis  0  69  0  69  34.5  DEFENSE  T  A  Tot  FC  FR  PBU  Sec  
Penalties-Penalty yards  24-176  a-n  Fitzgerald  0  63  0  63  31.5  King  15  19  34  2  0  0  2  
Third down conversions  15-26  13-33  Mclemore  0  59  0  59  29.5  Carter  17  7  24  0  2  1  0  
Percentage  57.7  39.4  Wh~e  0  50  0  50  25.0  Reeves  14  7  21  0  0  2  0  
Fourth down conversions  ()..1  1-2  Rink  10  7  17  0  0  0  0  
SCORING  TO  2XP  1XP  FG  Sal  Pis  Renfro  11  5  16  1  0  1  0  
Yda/Gm  No  Yda  Avg  TO  Lg  Williams  3  0  0-0  0  0  18  Akins  9  5  14  0  0  1  
80.5  24  161  6.7  3  65  Dawson  0  0  10-10  2  0  16  Thomas  2  10  12  0  1  0  
73.5  22  147  6.7  1  31  Adams  2  0  0..()  0  0  12  Brackens  6  4  10  1  0  0  
19.0  13  38  2.9  0  14  Clayton  1  0  Q..()  0  0  6  Crenshaw  6  4  10  0  0  0  
4.0  2  8  4.0  1  4  Fitzgerald  0  0..()  0  0  6  Vasek  4  5  9  0  0  0  
2.5  3  5  1.7  0  7  Mitchell  0  Q..()  0  0  6  Clark  6  2  8  0  1  0  
0.5  3  1  0.3  1  2  Reeves  0  Q..()  0  0  6  Allen  5  2  7  0  1  0  
0.0  1  0  0.0  0  0  Wilson  0  Q..()  0  0  6  Brown  5  1  6  0  0  
0  0  0  0  0  
No.Name 1 Bryan White  Pos. WR  HI. 5-11  WI. 170  YR FR  JOHN MACKOVIC  at Hawaii W, 38-27  
2 2  Taje Allen Rory Walker  CB K  5-11 5·11  184 175  JR JR  PITTSBURGH W, 38-17  
3 Shon M~chell 4 Phil Dawson 5 James Brown 5 Godfather Soul 6 Mike Scarborough 6 Matt Mahaffey 7 Cortney Epps 7 Courtney Cox 7 ErikOzuna 6 Erik Estrada 8 WaneMcGarity 9 Quinton Wallace 1 0 Richard Watton 11 Ricky Williams 13 Robbie Nolen 14 Marty Cherry 15 Mark Schultis 15 Greg Felux  RB K QB HEY WR K WR MON K COP RB WR QB RB WR OB p OB  5-10 5-11 6..() 5-7 6--1 5-10 6-1 5--6 5-9 5-10 5-8 6..() 6-5 6--1 8..() 6-3 6-1 6-1  185 JR 191 so 190 so 150 SR 188 FR 167 FR 190 JR 120 SR 170 FR 175 FR 182 FR 190 so 210 FR 210 FR 160 JR 195 FR 195 so 185 SR  Fourth season at Texas. Career Record: 65-50-2 Against Opponent: 0-0 Highlights: Mackovic, a former NFL head coach of the Kansas City Chiefs, has also made stops at Wake Forest and Illinois during his coaching career. He led UT to the Sun Bowl in 1994  at Notre Dame SMU RICE Oklahoma VIRGINIA TEXAS TECH at Houston TCU BAYLOR at Texas A&M  
16 Chris Carter  s  6-1  200  JR  
16 Jay Camas  QB  6-5  215  FR  
17 Tre Thomas  s  6-1  210  JR  
17 DoctorTre  OJ  6..()  400 YO  
17 Todd Ford  QB  6-1  195 SR  
18 Cody Danaher  s  6..()  200  JR  
19 Brian Howard  s  6-o  190 SR  
19 Harry. Hemphili  WR  6-2  185  FR  
21  Darrell Wilson  RB  6-1  220 so  
22 Justin Mclemore  WR  6-1  185 SR  
23 Brian Dagley  CB  5-10  165  JR  NOTRE DAME  
24 Ron McKelvey 24 Reagan Willman 25 Robert Crenshaw  DB s s  5-11 5-9 5-10  185 180 190  JR FR JR  STADIUM  
26 Kyle Froelich  s  5-9  180  JR  
27 Chris Butcher  RB  6-0  190  FR  
28 Anton Hector 28 Robert Dulling 29 Garrod Coleman 30 Bryant Westbrook 30 Chris Danney 31 Tony Holmes 31 Donny Mellow, Jr. 32 Jeffrey Clayton 33 Priest Holmes 33 Marc Rankin  DB WR RB CB WR CB K RB RB CB  6-1 6-1 6..() 6..() 6-3 5·8 6-2 6..() 5-10 6-0  170 FR 195 FR 223 so 197 JR 195 FR 182 FR 185 JR 203 JR 195 SR 195 FR  Opened in 1930 Capacity: 59,075 Largest Crowd: 61 ,296 Surface: Grass ND at home: 244-71-5  
34 Tremaine Brown  LB  6-0  225  JR  
34 William Cody  DB  5-10  180  JR  
35 Josh Sumner  RB  5-10  193 SR  
36 Kenny Harrison  RB  6-2  220  JR  
37 Kenny Lewis  LB  6..()  227  FR  
38 Aaron Babino  DB  6-2  195  FR  
39 Curtis Jackson  WR  5-10  185  SR  
40 Robert Reed  LB  6-2  240 SR  
40 Andrew Denny  RB  5·7  180  JR  
41 Mark Kuper  LB  6-4  235  FR  
41 Marcellus Spears 42 Anthony Hicks 43 Jonathan Hickerson 44 Ricky Brown  s LB LB RB  5-10 6-1 6-0 6..()  186 so 220 FR 225 JR 215 FR  CORNERBACK 22-Wooden 14-Covlngtoo  
45 Dwight Kirkpatrick  LB  6-1  230 so  
46 Dusty Renfro  LB  6-1  240  FR  
47 MattJones  LB  6-3  225  JR  
48 Trey Gulledge  WR  6-2  205 so  
48 Don Holland  WR  5-11  180 so  
49 Michael Pannell  LB  6..()  220 so  
50 Tyson King  LB  8..()  222  JR  
51 Brandon Nava  LB  6-4  245  FA  
52 Brenda Walsh  K  9..()  210  SR  
52 Clay Mansker  DL  6-2  244  FR  
53 Melvin Jenkins  DT  6..()  250 so  
54 Russell Gaskamp  c  6-4  285  FR  
54 Corey Davies 55 Stonie Clark 55 Mike Jacks 56 Patrick Hayes  DE NG c LB  6-2 6-1 6-2 8-2  242 315 265 230  JR SR FA JR  FREE SAFETY 11-Moora 3D-Edison  
57 Tyson Cutrer  LB  6--2  225 so  
56 Ryan Fiebiger  c  6--3  280 so  
56 Carlo Barrasa  LB  6-1  210  FR  
59 Kyle Richardson  LB  6..()  226 so  
61 Byron Uoyd  OG  6-2  262 so  
61 Moises Garcia  LB  5-11  215 so  
61 Jerry Garcia  RIP  5-11  415 GO  
62 Corby Brooks  OG  6-4  280  SR  
63 Blake Powers  c  6·1  268 so  
65 Travis Wood  OG  6-2  280  FR  
65 Eddie Blakley  NG  6..()  255  FR  STRONG  
66 John Elmore  OT  6-3  295  SR  SAFETY  
67 Jay Humphrey  OT  6--6  283  FR  17-Magee  
67 Joshua Scott  LB  6--3  237  FR  26-Monohan  
69 Dan Neil  OG  6-2  285  JR  
69 Russell Nsunamoah  LB  6..()  220  FA  
71 Ke~ Frierson  OL  6--6  275  FR  
72 Robart Peeler  OG  6-5  275  JR  
73 Shane Rink  DT  6·2  270  SA  
7 4 Dominic Bustamante  OT  6-5  296 SR  
75 Octavious Bishop  OT  6-4  300  FA  
76 Brent Kelly 79 Ban Adams  OT OG  6-6 6-5  285 so 298 FA  CORNERBACK 15-Rouum  
24--Goode  


page 5 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA Friday, September 22, 1995 
FIGHTING IRISH 


1 2 3 4 Tot PASSING Comp AH Pet Yda TD tnt Lg AELDGOALS Tot 7 43 21 20 91 Powlus 47 69 66.1 627 4 2 51 Kopka 3-5 14 6 10 15 45 RECEIVING Rec Yda Avg TD Lg PUNTING No Avg Bk Lg 
ND Opp Mayes 18 235 13.1 1 27 H. Smith 9 39.7 0 56 First downs 74 47 Edwards 8 100 12.5 0 19 Palumbo 1 16.0 0 16 Total yards 1366 903 Mosley 5 115 23.0 1 51 
Total yards per game 455.3 301.0 Wallace 4 52 13.0 0 35 KICKOFF RETURNS No Avg TO Lg Total offensive plays 225 189 Chryplewlcz 4 42 10.5 0 19 Mosley 5 32.4 0 46 Avg. yards per play 8.1 4.8 Kinder 4 36 9.0 1 30 Fanner 2 21.0 0 26 
Rushing yards 739 496 Fanner 2 23 11.5 0 17 Rushing yards per game 246 165 PUNT RETURNS No Avg TO Lg Rushing plays 156 112 ALL-PURPOSE Ruah Rec Ret Tot Avg Sollmann 7 6.1 0 24 
Passing yards 627 407 Kinder 320 36 0 356 118.7 Passing yards per game 209 136 Mosley 3 115 162 280 93.3 INTERCEPTIONS No Pa8888 completed 47 35 Mayes 5 235 0 240 80.0 Wooden 2 Passes attempted 69 77 Fanner 148 23 42 213 71.0 Magee 1 Passes intercepted 2 4 Edwards 111 100 0 211 70.3 Monohan 1 
Fumblea/ Fumblaa lost 8/3 5/4 Denson 110 9 0 119 39.7 PanaHies-Penally yards 12-109 15-136 Thome 34 0 0 34 34.0 DEFENSE T Tot FC FR PBU Sac Third down conversions 14-39 15-42 Sollmann 0 15 43 56 19.3 Cobbins 24 35 0 0 1 0.0 
Percentage 36 36 Berry 14 24 1 0 2 0.0 Fourth down conversions 4-8 2-2 SCORING TD 2XP FG Sal Pta Magee 18 0 3 0.0 Kinder 4 0 0 0 24 Moore 17 1 0 0.0 Yda/Gm No Yda Kopka 0 0 3 0 19 Grasmanis 17 1 0 2.0 
106.7 43 320 Edwards 2 0 0 0 12 Tatum 17 0 1 0.5 33 Denson 0 6 Bennatt 15 0 0 0.0 25 Edison 0 6 Wynn 14 0 0 0.5 21 0 6 Wooden 11 0 1 0.0 
2 0 6 11 0 0 0.0 0 6 10 0 0 0.0 0 6 7 0 0 1.0 
Poa. Hl Wl

Sept. 2 NORTHWESTERN L, 17-15 LOU HOLTZ 
Derrick Mayes WR 6·1 204 SA Kinnon Tatum LB 6-0 216 JA Ron Powlus QB 8·2 217 JR
Sept. 9 _(.~·
·~~rdue W, 35-28 
Sept. 1_Q,.:i~\ ' tNOEABILT !t\41-0 Kory Minor LB 8·2 225 FA
Tenth season at Notre Dame. 

Emmett Mosley WR 5-9 180 JRSept~ ~:,~AS,. \ Career Record: 200-90-7 Lyron Cobbins LB 6-Q 241 JR Jarious Jackson QB 6-2 215 FA 
·Sept3~:'\,at01ii6St~e •J LaRon Moore S 5·9 190 SA
Against Texas: 2-5 

10 Mike Perona QB 6-1 190 JA 11 Tom Krug QB 6-4 206 JR
Highlights: Reached 200-win milestone 

12 Scott Cengia K 5-9 179 SO 12 Mario Strayhorn DB 6-2 205 FR
against Purdue. Guided the Irish to a

~Wmy~t 
13 Bert Berry LB 6-3 230 JR 13 John Bishop CB 5-11 170 JR
National Championship in 1988 and 

14 Ivory Covington CB 5-9 161 SO •-~--·1.:~.... . ,· ·..., ; 15 Allen Rossum CB 5-7 176 SO 
Oct...~NCOl~ 
runner-up finishes in 1989 and 1993 . 

No\t:;li::::;v"-.:·::J NA~~:;# 16 Jerry Maloney K 5·11 174 JA 
17 Brian Magee S 5-10 204 SA
Nov. 18 at Air Force 17 Mark McKenna QB 5-11 182 JA 
18 Cikal Champion WR 5-10 191 JA 19 Marcus Thome RB 6-Q 224 SA 20 Kevin Kopka K 5-8 175 FA 21 Shannon Stephens RB 5-10 175 FA 22 Shawn Wooden CB 5-11 188 SR 23 Bill Gibbs S 5-10 179 JR 23 Autry Danson AB 5-10 175 FA 24 Ty Goode CB 5-11 183 SOBob Davie Dave Roberts 
25 Randy Kinder AB 6-1 206 JA 26 Mark Monohan CB 5·11 184 SA 26 Chris McCarthy K 5-11 194 SO 27 Bobbia Howard LB 5-11 210 FA
The 40 year-old defen­The current Irish 
28 Ken Barry RB 6-Q 214 SO 29 Roni Enisle DB 6-Q 180 JR
sive coordinator will offensive coordinator 
29 A'Janl Sandars DB 5-11 175 FA 30 Jarvis Edison s 6-4 213 so
act as interim head will assume total 
31 Robert Farmer RB 5-10 208 JA 32 Clement Stokes RB 6-0 203 SO
coach during Holtz's control of the offense 
33 John Mclaughlin LB 6-4 222 SO 34 Jamie Spencer RB 6-1 245 FA
absence. Davie, in his until Holtz returns. 
35 Scott Palumbo P 5-11 187 SA 35 Robert Phelps CB 6-0 185 JA
second year at ND, A creative offensive 
36 Chirs Wachtel P 5-11 211 JR 37 Jeff Kramer LB 6-2 218 SO 
was the architect of mind, Roberts also 
38 Sim Stokes CB 6-Q 185 JR 39 Benny Guilbeaux DB 6-4 210 FA
Texas A&M's famous excels in recruiting. 
40 Kevin Carretta TE 6-1 230 SA 41 Joe Babey LB 6-1 227 SO
"Wrecking Crew" He coached NE La. 
42 Mike Frascogna WR 5-8 164 SA 43 Bill Wagasy LB 6·3 224 SA
defense. until1993. 44 Marc Edwards RB 6-Q 227 JR 45 Hunter Smnh P 6-3 195 FA 46 James Jackson RB 5·10 205 FA 47 Bill Mitoulas LB 6-1 217 SO 48 Renaldo Wynn DE 8·3 280 SA 49 Joe Thomas LB 6-3 205 FA 52 Alex Mueller OL 6-6 280
CORNERBACK 


53 Lamont Bryant DE 6-4 235 54 Luke Pettlgout OG 6-6 282 55 Shelton Jordan LB 6-4 230 56 Kurt Belisle LB 6·2 220 57 Rick Keczenski c 6-4 263 58 Mike Burgdorf TE 6-Q 205 59 Matthew Kunz s 6-0 209 60 Sean Rogers OT 5-10 280 JR 62 Mike McCullough NG 6-2 298 SA 65 Matt Griesbach OG 6-0 263 SO 
FULLBACK 

66 Jeff Kilburg OG 6-4 278 JA 44-Edwarda 
67 John Wagner OL 6-8 300 FA34-Spsncer 69 David Quist NG 6-6 281 SA 70 nm Ridder OL 6-7 280 FA 71 Jerry Wlsne OL 6-7 282 FA 72 Ryan Leahy OG 6-4 288 SA 73 Mike Doughty OT 6·7 291 JR 75 Chris Clevenger OT 6-8 285 JR 76 Jeremy Akers OG 6-5 288 SA 77 Dusty Zeigler C 6-6 292 SR 78 Jon Spickelmier c 6-2 265 so 
72-LIIhY 

~"'""""'" 
79 Mike Rosenthal OL 6-7 290 FA 54-Petllgout 
80 Malcolm Johnson WR 6-4 206 SO 61 Charles Stafford WR 5-9 187 SA 82 Bobby Brown WR 8-3 175 FA 83 Scott Sollmann WR 5-8 180 JR SAFETY 
84 Dan McConnell WR 5-6 181 SA 
17·Thamn 

86 Antwon Jones DL 6-4 237 FA 25-Cranshaw 
87 Jimmy Friday LB 8-3 230 FA 88 Leon Wallace TE 6-3 285 SA 89 Mike Denvlr TE 6-3 231 JR 89 John Cerassni TE 6-4 245 FA 90 Ban Foos DE 6-4 250 SA 91 Daman Smith DE 6-5 277 JR 93 Paul Gresmanls NG 8-2 279 SA 94 Justin Orr WR 6-Q 190 JR 95 Corey Bennett DE 6-1 228 SO 97 Corey Redder LB 6-1 220 SO 
FLANKER 
98 Pete Chryplewlcz TE 6-5 257 SO
11-ll•nant 
99 Cliff Stroud DE 6-3 285 SA
S·Moaley 




The Observer •IRISH EXTRA 
In terms of recruiting quality players said. "Before · from the southwest, and Texas in partic­I visited here, 

Texas 
ular, opportunity knocked loud and I thought that continued from page 1 clear. was my The gradual demise of the choice." 
simple decision -stay at home, play for Southwestern Conference was a major In fact, a Southwestern conference school, get opening. there are all the adoration you're used to, and Once a league filled with proud foot­actually a 
maybe even get paid for doing it. ball heritage, probation penalties on great deal of But for the 12 Texans on the Irish ros­
numerous SWC institutions have turned similarities ter, that path was too worn. They want­the conference into a muddled mess. between the ed more, so the decision turned out to Add to that situation the realities of Longhorn
be Notre Dame. today's trend toward superconferences program and "Notre Dame is the only place where I and the Southwestern Conference's 
Notre Dame. ceuld get-a high caliber education and death sentence had been issued. 1995 " B o t h 
play high caliber football," freshman marks its last year as a conference as places justJimmy Friday said. "There are just a lot four members are merging with the Big have greatof opportunities at Notre Dame." Eight to form the Big 12. traditions," 
While Notre Dame is quick to offer "That had a major impact on my deci­Davie said. opportunities, they are just as adept at sion to come to Notre Dame," Friday "The student taking advantage of them. said. "There was a lot of uncertainty." body gets so That sort of controversy was a factor involved, and for his present teammates as well. they love "For me, the whole Big 12 things was their foot­a big deal," linebacker Jeff Kramer, a ball." Weatherford native, said. "That 
But there is The Observer/Kevin Klau changed a lot in my decision, and proba­one major Linebacker Jeff Kramer was ready to go to Texas before shunning the tion had an impact." difference in Longhorns for the Golden Dome. 
Clearly, the Irish had the push factor Davie's mind. that historians so love to discuss, but "You just don't get the national expo­"We talk a lot about high school foot­they also had the pull factors. sure down there like at Notre Dame and ball back there, it's fun," Friday said. 
Quality of the academic program was I think that is why we get some players." While they can always talk high school one. The people that were pushing this Kramer was just one of many to football, Saturday's game presents a were also a positive, especially Bob escape the grasp of the SWC. With rare opportunity to impress the home 
Davie and Kirk Doll. Texas high school football being among folks. 
Davie, the Irish defensive coordinator, the best in the nation, it has attracted "I have a lot of people coming up for has been a major influence in the suc­major focus from those who call recruit­the game," Kramer said. cess Notre Dame has experienced in the ing their job. And while it is definitely a crucial 
fertile talent of Texas. While the SWC and Texas didn't turn game for the Irish Texans, it may be "With Coach Davie being from Texas, out to be the choice for Kramer, it was even more important to the Texas he knows the area very well," Kramer for some of his opponents in high school. Texans noted. "Between him and Coach Doll, "I have a lot of friends playing for "With the Coloradoffexas A&M game 
they have the whole state covered." Texas. It's going to be weird after the this weekend and this one, this is the Doll, the linebacking coach, and Davie game to go over to them and say hi." Southwest's last chance to shine," Davie divide the state into two sections and try That may take time, but just greeting noted. "They want to have a good show­
to sell Notre Dame to the recruits over his fellow Texans each day in practice ing." the big boys of Texas A&M and Texas. could be a chore. Along with Friday, Kramer knows that feeling. "Texas was the first one to recruit there are ten others. Prominent in this "It's going to be weird to be out there The Observer/Rob Finch me," Friday said. group are Bert Berry, Allen Rossum, and going against guys you know but it will Leon Wallace is the eldest of Notre Dame's Kramer's situation was the same. Leon Wallace. definitely be fun." twelve Texas recruits. 
"I fully expected to go there," Kramer And they don't forget their roots. 

~--200-0FF~ 
~--100-0FF~
J

I $DINE-IN ONLY I I $ANY PURCHASE I 
I I I I 
: 271-0125 : : 271-0125 :
Ba u's

I I I I 
II 
GOOD THROUG"HI0/06/95 II II GOOD THROUGH 10/06/95 II
1101 VAliD '111111 AIIV 0111ER COUPON 1 NOT VALID WITH AllY OTHER COUPON 1 ONE COUPON PER ORDER ONE COUPON PER ORDER
------------Chinese -----------­
Cuisine 

LOCATED AT THE 
I

CAMPUS SHOPPES 
Delivery Hours: 1 
4:30 pm-1:00 am 1
I 

r.----------------, r----------------,1
DINNER FOR TWO
!EXTRA ~~~~E MEAL! 
•SWEET A~!~HICKEN
I •CHICKEN FRIED RICE I 
•CHICKEN FRIED RICE
I •EGG ROU I 
•2 EGG ROLLS
I •CREAM CHEESE WONTON I 
•2 CREAM CHEESE WONTONS
I •FORTUNE COOKIE I 
•FORTUNE COOKIES
WE DELIVER! 

: 271-0125 : 271-0125 
I GOOD THROUGH 10/06/95 I $8.00 Minimum Order GOOD THROUGH 10/06/95 





page 7 

The Observer • 
IRISH EXTRA 
' ant ou ' 
Notre Dame strives to find the nation :S best recruits, even with the assistant coaches' 
increased responsibilities 
G
ood bye Kory Minor. So long Randy Moss. Adios Kevin Faulk. Au Revior Dan Kenda. You guys were last years news. 
Say hello to DeAngelo Evans, Jonathan Beasley, Plaxico Burress and the rest of the class of 2000. 
Just when you expected a break from the recruiting frenzy, its back. Well, actually it never ended. When Autry Denson, Minor and the rest of the Notre Dame class of 1999 signed to play with the Irish, campaigns for the next re­cruiting class had all ready started. 
While the recruiting season doesn't officially open until November 1. Coaches around the nation are already in touch with prospective players. Some players have already committed to the schools of their choice, and others are Il}aking ~~'\official journeys to campuses and games. 
According to college football recruiting analyst Tom Lemming this is the time when the bulk of recruiting occurs. 
wMost of the recruiting is done up until now and during the season. This time is probably the most important. When the heavy recruiting begins in December and January most players have already made up their minds." 
For Irish star recruit, and USA TODAY 
Defensive Player-of-the-Year, Minor this 
was also an important time. While he 
knew in his heart that he wanted to go 
to Notre Dame, it was important for him 
to hear that the Irish wanted him. 
wlf they recruited me hard enough, if I 
felt they really needed me I would 
come," he said. 
If this is the crucial time, then what 
happens when question marks and 
instability arises in your camp. 
Lou Holtz is the King Arthur of re­
cruiting, and recruiting coordinator Bob 
Chmiel, .offensive coordinator Dave 
Roberts and defensive coordinator Bob Davie are his Knights of the Round Table. Yet when Arthur fell so did Camelot. 
Will the Irish recruiting machine crumble with Holtz's injury? 
Will Roberts and Davie have the nec­essary time to continue recruiting efforts with increased coaching respon­sibilities? 
According to Lemming and the Irish coaching staff, Camelot is not in peril. 
Lemming went as far to say that Holtz's injury may even enhance the Irish recruiting effort. 
"Usually something negative helps Notre Dame's recruiting," he stated. "If this were at the end of the year there would be some question marks for play­ers. 
Would Holtz be around next year? But Holtz will be recovered by the end of the year, and will probably recruit hard­er because he will be completely healed." 
"When you first heard the news last week, we didn't know what the long range plan would be," Davie com­mented. "But now when you see him back and how remarkably well he's doing, there is no question that by November 1 Holtz will be 100 percent. 
"Basically there will be no set back in recruiting." For Minor Holtz's situation wouldn't have been a major concern. 
"I don't think it would have affected (my decision) that much," he said. "Coach Holtz is a great coach and that's one reason I came here, but I also came here for academic reasons." 
R
ight now the assistant coaches can call recruits only once a week and for up to an hour if wanted. But as for there being a strain on the coaches time with their new responsibilities, forget it. They'll 
"You just have to bud­get your time very-very well," Roberts said. 
"Roberts is the most prolific recruiter in the country," Lemming explained. "If he needs to, he'll work 25 hours instead of 24." 
It is this high opinion of Roberts that may pose another problem for the Irish. With the combina­tion of his recruiting prowess, success as a head coach at Northwest­ern Louisiana and experi­
ence under Holtz, 
Roberts is considered a prime candidate for a head coaching jobs else­where next year. Just this past year he was in the running for the Louisville job that was taken by former Irish as­sistant coach and then Eastern Michigan head coach Ron Cooper. 
The loss of Roberts 
would be a heavy blow 
for the Irish. 
wTo lose the top a crucial 
when coaching changed 0 CCUr • Will hUrt, " 
By Thomas schlidt 
its nothing you can't recover 
from. 
"Except that it could be like 
when they lost a great recruiter 
in Ron Cooper, who left for a 
head coaching job at East 
Michigan. They never really 
recovered from that." 
But don't close the door on 
Roberts just yet, he may not be 
looking to go elsewhere at the 
moment. 

"I'm very happy here," he explained. "I came here to learn with coach Holtz and be at Notre Dame, and we've got a job to do. I'm coaching some great 
Top Prep Prospects 1995 
(Notre Dame Prospects in Bold) 
OB: Richard Casey Tim Couch 
RB: DeAngelo Evans Ron DayneLaveraneus Coles 
WR: Plaxlco Burress Damien Dodson 
Kenneth Davis TE: Dan O'Leahy DWiQht EdQe OL: Trav1s Clandge 
Billy Brann 
Jefferson Kelly
Seneca Knight 
Marques Sullivan DL: Courtney Brown 
Thaddeus Bullard 
Damoine Lewis LB: Carlton Bexley
Andy Katzenmoyer 
Mike Marshall 
Daryl Owens 
DB: Tom Hendricks Gary BerryRalph Brown Joe Dawkins 
ATH: Willie Gardner 
lan Mcintosh 
T.T. Toliver 
Courtesy of Bluechip Illustrated 
6-2 
6-5 
5-10 5-11 6-2 6-6 5-9 
6-1 
6-5 
6-5 6-6 
6-4 
6-5 
6-5 
6-6 6-6 
6-5 
6-4 6-1 
6-4 
6-3 
6-0 6-2 6-1 5-11 5-9 
6-1 
5-11 
6-0 
Friday, September 22, 1995 


should be wearing the Blue and Gold next season. The 5-10 210 pound senior runs a 4.31 40 yard dash, and could give the Irish the big play presence they have been missing since Raghib Ismail. Evans had committed to the Irish earlier 
205 Glendale, AZ 
210 Hyden,KY
210 Hyden,KS255 Pme Hill, NJ 180 Jacks, FL 210 VIrginia Beach, VA 165 Memphis, TN 
195 Houston, TX 
230 Cleveland, OH 
220 Apopke,FL 300 Vancouver, WA 
280 Blue Springs, MO 
299 Cincinnati, OH 
290 Alexander City,AL 
300 Chicago, IL 230 Moncks Corner, SC 
247 Live Oak, FL 
250 Sulher Sprinjs, TX 240 Carrolton, G 
240 Westerville, OH 
221 Cincinnati, OH 
215 Jackson, MS 200 Aldine, TX 200 Columbus, OH 180 La Puente, CA 180 Hackensack, NJ 
180 Live Oak, FL 
185 Cheshire, CT 
165 Daytona Beach, FL 

quarterbacks and this offense is really kind of neat. I'm having a good time doing what I'm doing. 
"(A head coaching position) is some­thing down the road. I'm looking for­ward to coaching these guys for a while." 
Even if Roberts should leave the Irish are not empty handed. 
"Bob Chmiel is the best recruiting coordinator," Lemming said. "Basically everywhere he has been, he has brought in top classes. Last year with Notre Dame and Michigan before. 
"Charlie Strong (defensive line coach), who is working Florida, will have to step up and work Dave's area (the south­east)." 
Y
et, aside from a possible coach­ing change, the largest barrier for the Irish is the Notre Dame admissions department. 
"Notre Dame admissions wreaks havoc on Irish recruiting classes," Lemming explained. "About two-thirds of their class will be wiped out. If they had the same admissions as Michigan, they'd have the top class every year. The players are NCAA qualified, but Notre Dame admissions has different standards." 
Don't worry. This is anything but a lost recruiting season. In actuality the Irish may even end up with a better but his parents convinced him to keep his mind open. While his official visits are all over, don't expect an "official" announcement until December. 
Evans could make this class the best, but the Irish need more than another great class. They need to fill areas of drastic need. 
More specifically if the Irish don't get some top notch defensive backs or wide receivers the recruiting effort will be a failure. 
Defensive backs Tommy Hendricks and Hon Nicks, both from Texas, are considered good shots for the Irish. But with both having forty times around 4.6, they could end up at linebacker. Ohio native Gary Berry would be a perfect cornerback with his 4.31 speed, but will be a hard recruit to get away from Ohio ... St. 
The Irish are in the running for Lake Dawson's younger brother Lewis, who resides in Washington. "Sweet Lew" could provide immediate help, but lacks pure speed. 
With the pending graduation of Leon Wallace, the Irish will have only one scholarship tight end next season. Dan O'Leahy was considered a good bet, yet the tide is turning. Penn St. and Boston College have pulled ahead of the Irish. 
Whichever way these students decide to go, one thing is for certain. With Chmiel, Roberts and Davie in command, 
Bob Davie is making Texas his recruiting base. Lemming stated. "The class than last year's. the Irish are in good hands for years to Irish could have some Kansas tailback DeAngelo Evans is 
come. problems if he leaves, but considered the best of the class, and he 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------. 
Friday, September 22, 1995 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA 
-----------~------I 

r-------­
•JocaSYw 
TOP
25

Holtz's de01ise 
TEAM RECORD

greatly exaggerated 

1. Florida St. (36) 3-0-0 

I
2. Nebraska (19) 3-0-0
n a campus as ..,.,..,,.,....,.-_...,....,.,..., ago, the man took an 
entrenched in unheralded squad to 
3. Texas A&M (5) 2-0-0 

football as this the brink of a nation­
4. Florida (2) 3-0-0 

one, rumors tend al championship. He 
5. Southern Cal 2-0-0

to swirl through the can still coach at this student body with level. 
6. Penn State 2-0-0 

reckless abandon. The fact is, this is 
7. Colorado 3-0-0 

Recently the hot Holtz's team. Davie 
8. Ohio St. 2-0-0

topic has been the Tim Seymour did a credible job as 
9. Michigan 4-0-0

downfall of head Associate head coach, but he coach Lou Holtz. Sports Editor beat a pretty miserable 
10. Oklahoma 2-0-0 

Once idolized, every­
one and their broth­
er are now predicting his 
retirement. 

Some of the rumors have 
even taken twists worthy of 
the most misguided soap 
opera. 

One story goes that his 
spinal injury was a conve­
nient way for the University 
to quietly ease him out after 
allowing him to get his 200th 
win. 

Another is that de facto 
coaches Bob Davie and Dave 
Roberts, with Holtz out of the "way, will' reshape the team in their own mold. The reality, however, appears quite different. 
People do not undergo four­
and-a-half hour surgery to 
convenience the University. 
Perhaps the stress of the job 
was a contributing factor, but 
Notre Dame would certainly 
be remiss to dismiss a coach 
who has represented the 
school in excellent fashion for 
almost a decade. 

Then there is the small 
matter that only two years 
Vanderbilt team. The 
11. Virginia 3-1-0 
split ends from the 
12. Oregon 3-0-0
Little Sisters of the Poor have better hands than the 
13. Texas 2-0-0 
Commodore receivers. 
• 14. Auburn 2-1-0 
And don't be deluded into 
15. Tennessee 2-1-0
thinking that Davie and 

16. UCLA 2-1-0
Roberts ran things any differ­ently in Holtz's brief absence. 
17. Miami 1-1-0 
A fourth down option with 
18. Louisiana State 2-1-0 
Ron Powlus at quarterback is 
19. Kansas State 2-0-0
right out of the Holtz play­
20. Georgia 2-1-0
book. If the Unabomber is a football fan, he undoubtedly 
21. Notre Dame 2·1·0 
likes the Irish. No technolo­
22. Washington 1-1-0 
gy, only the tried and true. 
23. Alabama 2-1-0
And history shows that the 
24. Maryland 3-0-0
tried and true leads to victo­ries. 
Holtz's track record in the 
: 
; 
PREVo 
POINTS IOUS 
1519  1  
1488  2  
1386  3  
1375  4  
1262  6  
1218  7  
1168  9  

1116 10 1095 11 854 14 824 16 823 20 811 15 803 5 739 8 562 12 463 19 
390 •• 372 22 368 23 270 24 269 18 262 13 
127 •• 116 17 
CJII 
big games has been virtually unparalleled, but the most 
• THE IRISH EXTRA STAFF 
impressive statistic is that he positions the Irish to be play­ing in those big games with 
Editor: Mike Norbut 
such regularity. Sometimes, I 
Managing Editor: Tim Sherman 
think we take the man for 
Associate Editor: Tim Seymour 
whoin we invented a cheer for granted. 
Graphic Design: Chris Mullins Living as a legend is cer-
Contributing Writers: 
tainly tough. Something tells 
Andy Cabiness, Megan McGrath 
me, though, that Holtz's }ega­cy is not yet complete. 
Thomas Schlidt 


page 8 

• GAMES OF IITEREST 
#3 TEXAS A&M at #7 COLORADO This battle will play a huge role in determining the shape of the national title race, as it appears to be the Aggies' only true test. Leeland McElroy leads visiting A&M while Koy Detmer appears to be the real thing for the Buffs. 
#5 SOUTHERN CAL at #25 ARIZONA The desert duel is Keyshawn Johnson and USC's only toughie before they tackle the Irish. The Wildcats have already dropped a game, but are always ready defensively, especially with Tedy Bruschi in the fold. 
#9 OHIO STATE at PITTSBURGH The Buckeyes are far superior in talent, but Pitt won't roll over at home. Johnny Major will have his charges ready to stop the powerful OSU offense. 
#11 VIRGINIA at CLEMSON Though the Tigers have fallen on rough times, Death Valley will be rocking for this ACC match-up. The Barber brothers have the 'Hoos flying high. 
• PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 

Tim Seymour 
Tim Sherman 

(8-5) 
(10.3) 

Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Colorado Colorado Colorado Southern Cal Arizona Southern Cal Ohio State Ohio State Ohio State Virginia Clemson Virginia 
,_,. Wltlt: 
Notre Dame 38 
Texas 16 
''The Most Popular # on Campus'' Notre Dame Saint Mary's I University Villaae 271-1177 271-7272 
We miss you, Coach Holtz! We look forward to seeing you on the sidelines soon! 
Notre Dame Store Hours 
Mon-Th llam-lam Fri-Sat 
llam-3am Sun Noon-lam 
ill Voted ''Best Delivered Pizza" 
-1994 Best of Michiana 
~Voted "Best Delivered Pizza" 
-1995 Best of Michiana 
~Voted "Best Delivered Pizza" 
-1993-94 Observer 
Saint Mary's Store Hours* 
Mon-Sat llam-lam 
Sunday Noon-lam 


r  -----,  r  -p;,;pa"';k ­ ,  r LawN;r;'s";c;";j ,  r Large1Topping, r -L';ch$p';ia/ ,  
I  Large  I I  4 Large  I I  Large  I I  Bread Stix  I I 1 Small 2Topping I  
I II  1Topping Pizzas956 ••  I I 1Topping Pizzas I I I I s 95 I I I I 22 •• II  1Topping Pizza I I s9 I I 59!-c/:;e I I  2Cokess 010 0•w  I I I II I  2 Cokess·695  •w  I II  

L-.----.J L----~.J L-----~ L-----.J L-----.J 
*From 1:OOam -3:00am (Fri/Sat Only) Call the ND Store for Delivery Service 








