
Wednesday, November 15, 1995• Vol. XXVII No.57 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
SMC reaction diverse after RHA resignation 
"I think the executive board was in a good position "I would have appreciated and would have wantedStudents, administration deal to take on a challenge rather than back down from to engage in continued discussion. But I will take 
one," Higginbotham added. these points they've brought under advisement andwith Association :S decision LeMans Hall president Simone Barber agreed. go from there," Timm said. By MAUREEN HURLEY "The executive officers took on a position of respon-. This leaves the unanswered question: Where does Saint Mary's News Ediwr sibility and authority, and they are not setting a good the Saint Mary's administration and its students go 
example by quitting," she said. from here? To thH shoek of many, Hesidence Hall Association "They [former RHA board members] have done a According to Timm, whatever happens will be by President Tara llooper, Vice President Barbara lot this year to be more prominent in the life of stu­the book. VanDersarl, Seemtary Laura Richter and Treasurer dents. Without undermining the efforts of RHA, they "We will clearly follow what is specifically stated in Cynthia Exconde presented letters of resignation to left us in a position where we can learn from what the constitution regarding the filling of vacant posi­the general membership Monday night. they've given and we can start from here, rather than tiohs," she said, adding that "this will be implement­As the HilA faees its second day without a complete from having to start from scratch," Barber added. ed immediately as with any campus organization." staff. students and administrative personnel are deal­Senior Maria Vogel, a non-voting member of RHA Timm pointed out that article seven, section three 
ing with the ramifications of the decision. pointed out, however, that the decision of the board of the constitution states that "in case of a permanent Aceording to VanDersarl, tension began mounting members to resign was not so sudden and irre­vacancy in the office of president, the vice president shortly after the board took office. "The meetings in sponsible. shall be president." In addition, "Any permanent 
"I think a lot of people think that this is a 'sudden' executive board vacancy excluding president shall bethe last two weeks with the executive board members 
decision made by the executive board members,"
and residence lire staff has resulted in an absolute filled by nominations and vote from HHA," the consti­need to stop the abuse of our time and talents," she Vogel said. tution says. 
said. "But they have been struggling for a long time and Filling in as interim president, Student Body Heactions to the resignations are diverse. they didn't make this decision overnight," she added. President Sarah Sullivan will take over until the "The way I see it there were two choices-either Actually, it was in the best interest of the RHA that upcoming Dec. 4 election. 
compromise for the good of RHA or quit and leave the executive board members made this decision, "Their resignation did come as a surprise," Sullivan 
HilA in a precarious position. However, HHA is com­according to Vogel. said. "We knew the tension existed, and we're sorry it prised of countless competant individuals who will In response to the board's final act, Linda Timm, had to end this way. My primary concern involves surely take on the challenge," said Holy Cross Hall vice president for student affairs at Saint Mary's facilitating RHA's picking up and moving on." 
President Alaina lligginbotham. College, said, "I regret that the students felt that this Suzy Orr, director of residence life, was out of town was their only alternative at this point." and unavailable for comment at press time. 
Right Reason journal debuts at Notre Dame 
By DAVE TYLER have recently seemed to be N~w~ Editor coming from the left. There's a Jot of talk in the dining rooms 
With a banner proclaiming and in the dorm," said Mr. "The Truth will set you Free," Moloney,and he added, "We the publication Hight Reason want to encourage more public hit the campus with its first debate." issuo Tuesday. 
Calling itself both orthodox "There's a dire need (at and politically conservative, the Notre Dame) for this kind of independant student journal publication," said Ms. Moloney. promised to tackle such diverse "We touch on a lot of different topics as free-market eco­areas with a very consistent nomics, relations betweens the theme, one that's religiously Church and the State, public and politcally conservative." morality immigrations, the Right Heason will address right to bear arms and welfare, Notre Dame's relationship and in a letter to readers from Edi­role in orthodox Cattholicism, tor-in-Chief Daniel Moloney, a its organizers said. graduate student in the philos­"We view Notre Dame and ophy department. the Catholic Church as living 
"We hope that our journal tradition. Hight Heason is trying· will serve as a breath of fresh to keep this tradition alive," air and as an alternative voice, said Ms. Moloney. for the Notre Dame campus." Mr. Moloney said there will Moloney wrote. be a focus on the explanation of 
The 12 page first issue will be Catholic theology. duplicated three more times "I find a lot of students saying this aeademic year, with hopes 'Gosh I never knew,' when it of published more frequently in comes to a question of theol­tlw future, Moloney said in an ogy," he said. "There's a need intnrview yesterday. for some one to articulate those 
Five thousand copies of the views." first edition were distributed on eampus. Hight Reason plans to remain 
Hight Heason is currently event driven, say its editors and supportml by a grant from the will confront topics like the De­Lynde and llarry Bradley bate over Gays and Lesbians at 

The Observer/ Katie Kroener 

The words of Truman advi-
In his lecture entitled "Hiroshima: A Necessary Evil?" Father Wilson Miscamble discussed the morality of the United States' decision to see HIROSHIMA I page 4 use the nuclear bomb during World War II. 
Forum explores gender relations 
By SARAH CORKREAN and  inferior and too flirtatious, are based on a lack of  
News Writer  accurate information about the women  from  
BRAD PRENDERGAST  each side, said Julie Kerr,  a Saint Mary's stu­ 

Associate News Editor dent. Foundation, according to Pub­Notre Dame and Saint Mary's "It's ignorant to assume that we [the women of lisher and Farley llall senior College (GLND/SMC), financial Relations between students at Notre Dame and Notre Dame and Saint Mary's) are completely
Shelia Moloney. and tuition concerns, the devel­Saint Mary's will only improve if individuals from different," Kerr said. "After all, we come from 
Thn Bradley Foundation sup­opment of a "left wing faculty" each campus look beyond traditional stereotypes, the same religious, social and economic back­ports eonsnrvative-lmming col­and the Adminstration Build­students said at a gender relations forum last grounds."lege newspapers across the ings Columbus murals. night. Jen Cherubini, also a student from Saint 
eountry. Its pages will also include But because the stereotypes influence fresh­Mary's, agreed. 
Mr. Moloney said thn idea for planned regular features like men from both schools almost immediately upon "If you take us out of the Notre Dame-Saint Hight Heason grew from what the Notre Dame Notebook, reaching campus, the problem is difficult to cor­Mary's setting, we're no different from one hn idfmtified as a eampus need. which will examine campus rect, according to Angie Kelver, a panelist at the another," Cherubini said. 
news. and Remedial Media, discussion. One possible way to improve relations would 
"There's a real dirth of publi­which will critique other cam­Kelver, who served on the freshmen orienta­be for students to develop friendships, between cations at Notre Dame," he pus publications, including The tion committee at Saint Mary's this year, said Saint Mary's women and both Notre Dame men said. "On a campus of this size Observer, Scholastic and that many freshmen arrive with preconceived and Notre Dame women, outside of the usual there is size and room for a Common Sense. notions about Notre Dame women. SYR dance scene. journal of opinion, a sports "Some people say that a con­"Freshmen were coming up to me during the "It's unrealistic for anything lasting to develop j~>urn~~l, any number of publica­servative paper is redundant at first couple of days of orientation and asking me, out of that type of setting," said Sarah Sullivan. tiOns. Notre Dame but the fact that 'Do Notre Dame women really hate us?"' Kelver Saint Mary's student body president. 
The tenor of political discus­we came up with 12 pages of said. But establishing friendships between students sion on campus also encour­unreported news shows there's The stereotypes, which typify Notre Dame from both schools is easier said than done, espe­aged the journal's creation. definitely a market," said Ms. women as domineering and too academically
"The politics on this campus Moloney. intense and Saint Mary's women as intellectually see RELATIONS I page 4 

-----~~---------~---------------­
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, November 15, 1995 
• INSIDE COWMN 



A conflict of Church and faith 
People often confuse the terms religion or Church with the term faith. Religion or Church (with a capital "C") refers to the institution of men, the hierarchy which seeks to interpret the doctrine of the Bible in terms of their faith. 


Faith is the belief which M~gee _Hus~m~n 
is at the foundation of Assoctate Vtewpomr Edttor the Church; faith is the soul and Church is the anatomy. 
Because of these definitions, the need for exploration of faith and, therefore. the strengthening of faith can only lead to the strengthening of the Church and the broad­ening of inclusiveness in the church. An example of the need for this exploration of the faith and broadening of inclusiveness in the Catholic church is the issue of the ordina­tion of worneri. 
By definition the concept underlying the . Catholic church, as the name implies, is that this Church is universal and allows for thought beyond the dictates of the hierarchy. This Church, my Church, however, often acts opposite these premises. Constantly the Church tries to minimize the power of the female by limiting her role in the mass and by discouraging a forum of discussion of her limited role. Although the church baptizes women, it denies them the right which bap­tism should endow them with -the right to fully participate in a society of equals in the sacrament of the Eucharist by consecrating the host. This leads me to ask myself several pertinent questions. 
Am I to believe that Jesus took a moment during the Last Supper to say, "Hey, guys, this ability to transform bread to body and wine to blood is only for men, so refuse women the opportunity"? The idea that Jesus selected only men for the priesthood is ridiculous. Jesus never ordained any disci­ple-male or female. Furthermore, the very words of Christ, the gospels themselves, are filtered through the current hierarchy in the form of translators. How many times do we hear Jesus' words as they carne from his mouth in Aramaic? Three times, and not one of those three times refer to ordination. 
Am I supposed to believe that I am some­how less of a disciple because of my gender? According to my faith, women are equal with men. Neither deserve to be excluded from a vocation because their sex. If a woman has a calling to be a priest, she should be able to pursue that calling. What member of the hierarchy can decide how someone can prop­erly minister in the Church? None of them can because none of them can read souls or judge the calling. 
Recently, I have found my faith challenged 
by a Church which refuses to grow with the 
world. It is stuck in an older time which still 
believes that women should remain in the 
horne and that the silent and suffering 
women are the truly holy women. The 
Church uses a tradition, a sort of divine law, 
as substantiation of why women should not 
be able to consecrate. However, thirty years 
ago, Vatican II broke tradition by beginning 
to give the mass back to the congregation 
through such innovations as a non-Latin 
mass. The time has come for the Church to 
change again -to give the Church back to 
us, the church. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


News Viewpoint Gwendolyn Norgle Jenny Kellogg 
Jamie Heisler Tom Snider Sports Production Megan McGrath Kristi Kolski 
Kathleen Lopez Belle Baurista Graphics Lab Tech Brian Blank Mike Hungeling 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• Wmu.o AT A GLANCE 
Deadly high mountain trail in Nepal claims seven trekkers 
KATMANDU, Nepal  500 miles  cued Tuesday by helicopters. Some of  
Adventure tourists are drawn to  those rescued, including 16 Americans,  
Nepal's Gokyo valley for its spectacular  CHINA  500 km  have managed to return to Katmandu,  
views of Mount Everest, but the  the capital. More were still stranded.  
17 ,500-foot-high Gokyo trail is as dan­ The Gokyo trail, which crosses deadly  
gerous as it is breathtaking.  crevasses and tricky glaciers, is a  
At least 44 trekkers have died in the  seven-day walk from the nearest air­ 
area and 418 others have been res­ port in the town of Lukla, a 30-rninute  
cued by helicopter after a fierce storm  flight from Katmandu.  
Friday and Saturday set off avalanches  "Mount Everest is a big deal, and  
and landslides near the bases of some  Gokyo gives you the best view of the  
of the world's highest mountains - world's highest peak," said Wesley W.  
including the 29,028-foot Mount  Day, a 32-year-old research scientist  
Everest.  from Old Lyme. Conn. Undaunted by  
The mountainous area of eastern  the weekend's tragedy, he still planned  
Nepal was covered with more than six  to make the trip. "When a person goes  
feet of snow from the storm. Rescue  to Gokyo, it is the last word in trekking.  
workers found the bodies of three  The next step is real mountaineering,"  
Japanese trekkers and their four  Day told The Associated Press in  
Nepalese guides Tuesday at a base  Katmandu Tuesday.  
camp of Mount Kunchenjunga, the  Earlier, officials put the number of  
third-highest mountain in the world.  confirmed dead from an avalanche in  
Twenty-one other members of the  Gokyo at 26 -13 Japanese and 13  
expedition survived and helped rescue  Nepalese guides. Eleven people - 
workers pull bodies from the deep  including two Canadians, an  
snow, said Prachanda Shrestha,  Irishwoman and a German ­died in a 



spokesman for the government's avalanche task force. Seventy-nine people, including 27 foreigners, were res­


Princess Diana tells all in interview 
LONDON 

On Prince Charles' 47th birthday, his estranged wife gave him quite a sur­prise. The BBC announced Tuesday that Princess Diana will talk about her life, her broken marriage and her hopes for the future in a television broadcast next Monday. Diana's first solo, on-the-record interview appears to be her response to Charles' own can­did television interview more than a year ago, in which he admitted to being unfaithful. Buckingham Palace said Queen Elizabeth II and Charles were unaware of Diana's plans until Tuesday morning. ''I'm detecting a sense of shock and a certain dejection, a sort of feeling that 'here we go again'," Jenny Bond, the BBC's palace correspon­dent, said in a radio report. The BBC did not immediate­ly announce plans for overseas broadcast of the inter­view, which was done by its long-running current events program Panorama. Diana, who often shows a deft touch in news manipulation, apparently dictated the tim­ing of the announcement. 

Chiles apologizes for harassing voters 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. 

For the first time. Gov. Lawton Chiles apologized Tuesday for the deceptive scare calls that were made to older voters in the final days of his re-election campaign, calling them a "terrible mistake." "This was our cam­paign and we accept responsibility for these actions," Chiles said. "We apologize to the people." The callers hired by the Chiles campaign in the two weeks leading up to the November 1994 election described Republican opponent Jeb Bush as a tax cheat and said his running mate, Tom Feeney, wanted to abolish Social Security and cut the Medicare health insurance program for the elder­ly. Instead of telling voters they worked for the Chiles campaign, the callers said they represented an organiza­tion that doesn't exist and a Republican group that had no connection to the calls. Chiles said his campaign spent $570,000 with National Telecommunications Services Inc. in Washington for more than 1 million calls to potential voters during the campaign. 

lower-lying area of western Nepal, where heavy rain caused landslides. October and November are the peak months for trekkers in Nepal. 

New Crayola scents include dirt 
EASTON, Pa. 

Children who get hungry while they're coloring won't 
be as tempted to eat their art now that Crayola has 
replaced food-scented crayons with a new batch of aro­
mas. Mouthwatering favorites such as coconut, licorice, 
chocolate, cherry and blueberry were phased out 
Tuesday, replaced by scents children will recognize but 
not hunger for. such as baby powder, leather jacket, dirt, 
cedar chest and the ever-popular "new car smell." 
Parents had been calling Crayola's owner, Easton-based 
Binney & Smith Co., worried that children would eat the 
sepia-colored, chocolate-scented crayon for breakfast 
with a glass of milk, or try to blow bubbles with the pink, 
gum-scented one. Crayola said it has received fewer 
than 10 reports of children ingesting the non-toxic 
crayons, but the company felt the concern was enough 
reason to retire the scents. "We're changing because 
consumers really believed food scents weren't a good 
idea, even though our research showed they were as safe 
as any other Crayola product," said company spokes­
woman Sandy Horner. Since the Magic Scents were 
released in July.1994. 
Shopping carts pose danger to kids 
CHICAGO 

The supermarket can be a dangerous place for chil­
dren. Some 25,000 children a year are injured when 
they fall or jump from shopping carts or when the carts 
tip over, researchers said in .a study in the November 
issue of the Archives of Pediatrics and Adolescent 
Medicine. The researchers said shopping carts should be 
banned until they are redesigned for safety. No laws gov­
ern shopping-cart design. The researchers analyzed 
data from the National Electronic Injury Surveillance 
System of the Consumer Product Safety Commission for 
three years ending in 1992. They estimated that 75,200 
shopping-cart related injuries occurred in children 
younger than 15 who were treated in U.S. emergency 
rooms. Some 2,000 of those children required hospital­
ization; rione were killed. "These are not trivial injuries. 
They can be life-threatening," said lead author Gary A. 
Smith, an assistant professor of pediatrics at Ohio State 
University. 


Wednesday, Nov.15 AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
ILL 
ltndianapoli3 37o I 
• 


VIs AsBOclared Press 


Atlanta  33  32  Dallas  72  41  New Orleans 70  36  
Baltimore  42  27  Denver  41  36  New York  41  39  
Boston  40  31  Los Angeles 80  59  Philadelphia 43  29  
Chicago  31  20  Miami  78  66  Phoenix  81  55  
Columbus  37  33  Minneapolis 32  19  St. Louis  41  35  

Wednesday, November 15, 1995 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
• HALL PRESIDENTS' COUNCIL 
Hall presidents indecisive over NASAND 
By JOHN LOWELL 
News Writer 
There was a diversity of opin­ion amongst member of the llall Presidents' Council last night over the Native American Students' Association of Notre Dame's concerns over the mu­rals in the Administration Building. 
lli'C Chairpersons Matt Schlatter and Kristin Beary trind to build a Council consen­sus on the NASAND issue at yesterday's meeting. 
In the discussion, Alumni Hall Co-President Mike Fesenmeier said, "The issue is not all that relevant to the members of Alumni. It is a PC (political conectness) issue. We need to talk about it more. People need to take a good look at the mu­rals and decide whether or not they warrant such serious scrutiny." 
Walsh Hall Co-President Nicole Carlstrom questioned the way in which the issue was 

Summer Service Project '95 Vets 
T-Shirts 
If you did not receive yours please stop by the Center for Social Concerns 
Center for and pick one up by
Social 

November 17th. 
raised, "Is it right for one stu­dent organization to claim that the murals are inappropriate for the whole student body? Perhaps, NASAND should pro­vide a list of specifics as to what it feels are improper with the murals." 
Stanford Co-President Matt Karr commented, "My dorm feels that the cultural impact of Columbus on the New World and Notre Dame should be kept." Alumni Hall's other Co­President Jeremy Baltz said, "Christopher Columbus was af­ter all the bearer of Christianity to the New World. Should Columbus not be granted a place at Notre Dame?" 
After much debate the HPC was unable to declare a consensus. The opinions of the dorm presidents will be shared at Wednesday's Student Senate meeting. 
A variety of opinion was ex­pressed by the hall presidents on the issue of co-residentiality. Various methods of making some dorms at Notre Dame coed were discussed, including plans that would separate sexes by floor or wing. 
Schlatter commented, "There is a certain benefit to co-resi­dential interaction between 10 
a.m. and 12 p.m. which is pre­sent right now in the single-sex dorms." 
Many of the hall presidents expressed that the members of their dorms favored the option of having co-residentiality. The hall presidents all indicated that the members of their dorms, while strongly endors­ing co-residentiality, did not favor their own dorm becoming coed. 
The HPC closed the debate over co-re!iidentiality with tepid support to be given at the Student Senate meeting Wednesday for a co-residential­ity option. 
In other HPC business, the Council recognized the winner of this past month's Rockne Award, which is presented monthly to one hall for its lead­ership and organization. Past hall presidents judge each dorm monthly. Pasquerilla East was recognized for the month of October for its diver­sity of activities and was cited for the quality of both its social and service activities. Badin Hall was the runner up for the month. 
Three service projects were announced at the meeting . The World Hunger Coalition spokes­woman Kristin Biniek, a junior from Pasquerilla East, told the Council that the annual food basket program would need to serve over 300 families this Christmas. 
A representative from St. Edward's Hall outlined the "Clothes for Christmas" cloth­ing drive being held in conjunc­tion with Center for Social Concerns. 
Anne Stricherz, a senior from Farley Hall, asked the hall presidents to cooperate in the Paper for Schools Program, which collects the used color paper of announcements here on campus for use in area parochial schools. 
Engineers victorious in contest 
By MATT GAREAU 
NewsWrirer 

Three students from the Notre Dame chapter of the Society of Professional Hispanic Engineers (SHPE) decided at the last minute to compete in a regional acade· mic competition in Chicago over the weekend and ended up champions, winning a trip to the national event next semester in Seattle, Washington. 
Club president Luis Castillo, Moises Olivares, and Alejandro Godala-Maria. par­ticipated in the Academic Olympiad at the Student Leadership Development Forum, held November 10­
12  at  Northwestern  
University.  
They  outdistanced  

Northwestern and Iowa State University in the finals of the competition to win the trip to Seattle in February. Airfare and entry fee for this contest will be provided by the national club. The accomplishment was all the more impressive, since the team was put together just a few days prior to the event. 
The contest consisted of a written exam of twenty-nine questions followed by an oral competition among the top three schools from the written section. The ques­tions concerned scientific topics from chemistry. physics, and ther· modynamics. 
Castillo said, "I was happy because this is the first time our SHPE club has partici­pated in such an event, and 
see AWARD/ page 6 


University of Notre name lnternutlnnal Study Program In 


DUBLIN, IRELAND 
"Why Study in Dublin for a Year or a Semester" 
With Professor .Jim Smyth Department of' History 
WEDNESDAY NOVEMBER 15, 1995 4:30P.M. 119 DEBARTOLO 
Application Deadline December 1, 1995 
THE GREAT AMERICAN 
SMOKE OUT 
NOVEMBER 16 
LaFortune Student Center 
11:00 to 2:00p.m. 


SPONSORED BY: Wei/ness• T/Je Dept. of Human Resources and t/Je American Cancer Society 
Throw away your tobacco and get a free gift! 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, November 15, 1995 
Hiroshima 
continued from page 1 
sor Henry Stimson summed up the views of those who advo­cated using the bomb: " This deliberate, premeditated destruction was our least abhorrent choice... It ended the ghastly specter of a clash of great land armies." 
The other side of the argu­ment , Miscamble said, views the bombing as wanton and "blatant murder." 
Controversy was sparked re­cently when the National Air and Space Museum planned an exhibit about the bombing that portrayed the bombing as both an instrument of racist revenge and a "warning shot across the bow of the Soviet Union," Mis­camble said. 
Saying "the best history comes from understanding," Miscamble attempted to explain the myths surrounding both arguments to reveal what he considers the underlying facts. 
According to Miscamble, Hi­roshima must be viewed as a 
Relations 
continued from page 1 
cially between the women of each campus. Students at the discussion agreed that Notre Dame women have a lesser incentive to visit Saint Mary's, due to the fact that men are already present on the Notre Dame campus. than Saint part of World War II and can­not be seriously analyzed by itself. Both Japan and the Allied Powers fought a war with high casualties, and the Japanese often fought to the last man. The Japanese fought "a war of attrition" with hope that battles would be so unpleasant that the Allies would allow Japan to surrender conditionally with its govern­ment intact. 

By August 1945, both sides had suffered enormously, Mis­camble said. Japan had three million dead, one million within the preceding eight months alone. Japanese cities had been devastated by bombing. 
On March 9, Tokyo was fire­bombed, killing over 100,000 people and burning nearly half of the city. The death toll was higher than either Hiroshima or Nagasaki. 
Despite the suffering, both the Japanese Cabinet and Em­peror Hirohito agreed in February of that year to fight a decisive battle on the homeland "even at the cost of the entire Japanese race," Miscamble said. And although certain 
Mary's women have to visit Notre Dame. 
The Univerisity's single-sex dorms may also inadvertently hinder the development of friendships with Saint Mary's women, according to Sullivan and Ashleigh Thompson, a pan­elist and Notre Dame student. 
"People rely too much on their dorms for their friends," Sullivan said. "How many guys, leaders advocated surrender, they could not convince the mil­itary to stop fighting. 
According to Miscamble, the bombing of Hiroshima shocked the emperor into becoming an "advocate of surrender." Years later, a top advisor of the em­peror wrote. "The only reason the Japanese Army stopped fighting was because of the in­tervention of the Emperor." 
Some revisionists have sug­gested that there may have been an easier path to peace, such as a continuation of con­ventional warfare. 
Miscamble expressed his doubts. Given that plans for a massive invasion were in place, "more Japanese would have lost their lives" had the Allies continued conventional bomb­ing, Miscamble said. Further­more, the Emperor had wit­nessed the destruction of Tokyo by conventional bombs and had continued to support the mili­tary's viewpoint. 
According to Miscamble, a quick end to the war would have its advantages. Besides a reduction in bloodshed, the So-
for example, have very many guy friends outside of their own dorm?" 
Sparse attendance by Notre Dame students hindered last night's forum, held at DeBartolo Hall. While Saint Mary's was well-represented at the discus­sion, with about 25 women pre­sent, only two Notre Dame women and five Notre Dame men attended. 


The Women's Resource Center presents: 
tliird annua[ 
omen in 5lrt and Performance 
LaFortune Ballroom ednesday, Nov. 15th 8:00-1 O:OOp.m. 
& rejresfunents are comp 



Student Tennis Cli.ni.c 
Wednesday, November 15 
6:30 PM -8:30 PM Eck Tennis Pavilion 

Stroke Analysis 
& 

Playing Situations 
Presented By: 
Men's & Women's Varsity Tennis 
Free of Charge • No Advance Registration Necessary Open to All Notre Dame Students 
R--~ 

DIRECT FROM NEW YORK! LIVE! ,~ 
SEE WHAT ALL THE NOISE IS ABOUT You've Seen STOMP On: • The late Show, with David letterman • The Tonight Show • CNN News • Good Morning America • Dateline NBC STUDENT TICKETS $15 w11.o. (limited Availability) "Hip and Hot. AJoyful Blitz of disquiet. STOMP is aPERSONABLE High-Energy bunch." joan Ungaro, Theatreweek  
SPECIAL AlERT! look for STOMP Student Discount Coupons in TODAY'S OBSERVER  
EACHNOVEMBER 28•29•30 8PMEVENING MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM Reserved Seats: Now on sale at Morris Box Office, The Usual Outlets, or Charge by Phone: (219)235-9190 KIDS l /2 PRICE COUPONS! Available at: South Bend u;;.Granger Mishawaka Have you had your break today'?~  

viets did not have a chance to participate in the occupation. Yet Miscamble said that the bomb was not "a diplomatic weapon." 
Although the morality of the weapon has always been in question, Miscamble remarked that it is a matter of perception. Those who view the bombing of Hiroshima as a decision that ended suffering and saved lives will view it as moral. There are others who view all indiscrimi­nate civilian attacks as im­moral. Hiroshima was such an attack, but Miscamble re­minded the crowd that it was not the first such air attack. 
Miscamble ended his lecture by saying to the audience that Hiroshima "was evil." And then he asked, "But was it neces­sary?" 

Wednesday, November 15, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
ND to host knowledge 
Budget deadlock continues 
quiz competition 
Special to The Observer 
The UnivHrsity of Notre Dame's 1995-96 College Bowl tournament will begin November 30 at the Center for Continuing Education. 
Nineteen teams made up of four students each have regis· tered for the double·elimina· lion competition, which will eontinue through the first two weeks of December and culminate in January. Exact dates and times for tho semi­finals and final are still to be determined. 
Created in 1953, the College Bowl is the world's longest running general knowledge quiz competition. Teams from campuses across the country compete in a question-and­answer game that tests knowledge in everything from history. literature, science, religion, and geography to current events, the arts, social sciences, sports and popular culture. 
The winner of the Notre Dame tournament will advance to regional competi· tion the last week of February at a site to be determined. 
Dubbed the "varsity sport of the mind," the College Bowl was televised weekly from 1959-1970. 

We have started to take applications for next year. 
Furnished apartments­swimming pool-jacuzzi­tennis, volleyball, & basketball courts­24 hour laundry-shuttle bus­professional management. 
*Apartments available for your selection.* 
For more information cal/272-1441. 
By DAVE SKIDMORE 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Hundreds of thousands of government workers got anoth­er day off today as President Clinton and the Republican Congress. after futile private discussions and bitter public recriminations, remained at odds over budget priorities. 
And chances were slim that the partial government shut· down that began Tuesday would end soon. 
"It is my solemn respon­sibility to stand against a bud­get plan that is bad for America and ... that is exactly what I intend to do," Clinton vowed between two Capitol Hill negoti· ating sessions that left both sides firmly entrenched. 
His lead negotiator, White 
dairy program and other issues. 
"The likelihood right now is that they want to proceed with a shutdown until they have completed work on their bud­get. That's unfortunate. It makes no sense to the American people," Panetta said. 
The immediate negotiations were centered on legislation temporarily extending the gov­ernment's spending and bor­rowing authority past Thanksgiving, perhaps long enough for a deal to be struck with the administration on the long-term bill. 
The administration complains that the temporary measures vetoed by Clinton on Monday would have had the effect of committing him in advance to the Republican budget, includ­ing its proposed $7-a-month increase in Medicare premi· urns. 
Republicans insisted Clinton must promise to balance the budget in seven years, using economic and technical assumptions favored by the Congressional Budget Office rather than the White House budget office. 
No further meetings were scheduled, but both sides said their staffs would stay in touch, searching for some accom­modation. House Budget Committee Chairman John Kasich, R-Ohio, suggested Republicans would be willing to at least examine Clinton's com­plaint that their budget was based on too-pessimistic eco­nomic assumptions, requiring deeper-than-necessary cuts. 

Later Tuesday evening, a glimmer of hope emerged that the terms of the shutdown could be eased even if the two sides remained apart. 
House Speaker Newt Gingrich, R-Ga., said legislation may begin moving "in the next day or two" to reopen veterans offices, passport offices and Social Security offices so new applications could be taken. 
Gingrich said Republicans would send a transportation spending bill to the president today, with an Interior Department appropriations bill -reopening national parks ­to follow by the end of the week. 
On Tuesday, some 800,000 of 

2.1 million federal employees -those deemed "nonessen­tial" -were sent home after reporting to work in the morn­ing. Air traffic controllers. mili· tary personnel, prison guards and others protecting public health and safety kept working. 
Employees of the Agriculture and Energy departments remained on the job because regular appropriations bills for those parts of government have been enacted. Social Security and Medicare checks were processed and the fiscally inde­pendent Postal Service contin­ued to deliver mail. 
Hey Sophomores!! 
Want to get involved in this year's: 

Then sign up to be on the Sophomore Committee for the 1996 JPW at the LaFortune Information Desk by December 1st. 
For further information, call Mark at 4-0567 

----~---~--·------­
page6 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, November 15, 1995 
Christopher rules out partial accord 
Sec. ofState 
encourages full settlement 
By BARRY SCHWEID 
Associated Press 
DAYTON, Ohio 
Going aU-out for a settlement of the Bosnia war, Secretary of State Warren Christopher ran up against hard stands on terri­tory and the future of Sarajevo Tuesday as he held daylong talks with Balkan leaders. 
A comprehensive accord did not appear imminent, but the Clinton administration re­mained unwilling to suspend the talks with a partial settle­ment. 
"We do not anticipate a reso­lution of all the major issues to­day," State Department spokesman Nicholas Burns said. "Our negotiating team is certainly willing to work with these parties for the next few -days or perhaps into next week." 
In ruling out a partial accord, American negotiators are de­termined to settle hard-core is­sues of territory, separation of forces, an election and a new Bosnian constitution. 
"We are not looking to tie up a few loose ends and leave town a day or two from now," Burns said. 
Award 
continued from page 3 
to advance to the national level is quite an achievement." According to Castillo, the club will prepare for the Seattle conference by reviewing engi­neering basics and going over SHPE history. 
The Notre Dame chapter of SHPE, organized in conjunction with the Society of Mexican American Engineers and Scientists, exists to increase re­tention of minority students in the engineering program. It is open to all engineering and sci­ence students. 
Shaldee Vitamins &Herb 

"We are not looking to have some kind of bare-bones agree­ment where you fill in the important details later or an: swer all the difficult questions later." 
As night fell and Christopher trudged on with his mediating, Burns told reporters: "There are number of very important differences that remain on the major differences. I don't think they will be overcome today. 'There has been no closure on any of the issues since we arrived this morning," he said. 
"I won't even term it progress." 
The White House, meanwhile, released a nine-page letter from President Clinton to House Speaker Newt Gingrich defend­ing his plan to send U.S. troops to Bosnia to help enforce a set­tlement. 
"There will be no peace with­out America's engagement," Clinton wrote. "If we turn our backs on this responsibility, the damage to America's ability to lead, not just in NATO but in pursuit around the world of our interests in peace and prosper­ity, would be profound." 
In his letter, Clinton said the United States plans to con­tribute up to $600 million to help rebuild Bosnia. 
That sum is in addition to the estimated $1.5 billion cost of putting 20,000 American troops in Bosnia for one year as part of a NATO peacekeeping force. 
The Serbian, Croatian and Bosnian delegations, rounding out two weeks of bargaining with U.S., European and Russian mediators, are ready to go home, Burns said. 
Christopher, himself, plans to go on to Japan around mid­night.. 
"But they can't go home until they reach a full agreement or decide to go home," Burns said. 
Only the writing of a new constitution for the former Yugoslav republic was on track, but Christopher was deter­mined to keep up the pressure by avoiding a break. 
A senior U.S. official said the negotiations could go on until Thanksgiving. 
As Christopher made the rounds of Bosnian, Serbian and Croatian delegations at Wright­Patterson Air Force Base, sources close to the talks said the Serb delegation was com­plaining the Muslims were in­sisting on establishing a strong central authority in Sarajevo. 

New guidelines issued for tobacco ads 
ByJOHN PACENTI 
Associated Press 

MIAMI 
Knight-Ridder Inc. no longer wants Joe Camel or ads that make smoking look sexy on the pages of The Miami Herald, The Philadelphia Inquirer or any of its 31 other newspapers. 
Catchy phrases such as "cool" or "alive with plea­sure" also are out under five new "suggested guidelines" on tobacco ads issued by one of the nation's largest media companies. 
"It's a certainty other com­panies are facing the same type of issues," Lee Ann Schlatter, a Knight-Ridder spokeswoman, said Tuesday. "Other people are figuring out what they are going to do. It's one of those difficult situ­ations. It's a legal product." 
Tom Lauria, a spokesman for the Tobacco Institute lob­bying group in Washington, contended that Knight­Ridder's new policy opens the media company's advertising up to pressure from other interest groups, including opponents of alcohol, junk food, and sex and violence in movies. 
"Can we expect Knight­Ridder to capitulate to all of them?" Lauria said. "They will find their own self-cen­sorship is contagious." 
Knight-Ridder decided against banning tobacco advertising outright, and said it's up to individual newspa­pers within its group to decide whether to follow the guidelines. 
It is also encouraging companies that publish the newspapers' Sunday inserts, such as Parade magazine and packages of ads, to follow the policy. 
Under the guidelines, ads should be rejected if they in­clude cartoonlike characters aimed at young people; imply that smoking is linked to good health; use lines such as "alive with pleasure" -the slogan for Newport cigarettes; or suggest that smoking leads to beauty, success or sexual attractiveness. 


Conversation on the Catholic Character ofNotre Dame 
Notre Dame and Baylor: What We've Learned from Both 
Prof. Michael Beaty and Prof. Larry Lyon 

Roseland 
272-0606 
Baylor University 

Prof~ssors Michael Beaty (Philosophy) and Larry Lyon (Sociology), both of Baylor University distributed a questionnaire to Notre Dame faculty last spring as a part of a research project, "Religion and Higher Education: A Case Study of Baylor University," which is funded by the Lilly Endowment. Similar surveys were conducted at Baylor and Boston College. They will discuss some of their initial findings. 
7:30p.m. Wednesday, November 15th 
STEAMBOAT 

Hesburgh Center for International 
VAIL/BEAVER CREEK HILTON HEAD ISLAND 

Studies Auditorium
• PER PERSON DEPENOlNG ON DESTINATION I BREAK DATES /LENGTH Of STAY. 
4f.;.$QQ.;..SIINCII-4.S·E 
'rOLL F11EE INFl:>RWAnoN &.1115SSW\'4'r10NS OR SURF Mil TO IIIII WEI IIlli AT: 


Discussion period to follow. 
,-­
VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, November 15, 1995 
page 7 

THE OBSERVER 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 

john Luc-J.< Managing Editor Business Manager Elizabeth R<gan joseph Riley 
News Editor ...............•................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... john Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michad O'Hara Ad Design Manager ...................... Jen Mackowiak Sports Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nanncry Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary'• Editor .................... Patti Carson Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper publi,hed by the students of the University of Notre Dame du 1-'lc and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­wrials r~prcscm the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Ediror, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, lencrs and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not nrcessarily those of The Observ<r. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to .&II read~rs. The free ~xpression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541  Advertising  631-6900I 8840  
Sports  631-4543  Systems/Marketing Dept.  631-8839  
News/Photo  631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accl•nt/Saint Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Editor I Production  631-5303  Viewpoint  E-Mail  Viewpoint.l@nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  

• J AM Nor A Poneo PLANT 
Looking at school loans in a different context 
I've heard enough debate about the federal student loan program to see that both sides are missing the point. If the government stops subsidizing student loans, thousands of middle class students (like me) will sutTer. 
Yes, and your point is? You can't make an omelet without breaking some eggs. We students can bear the loss of a few hundred dol­lars better than welfare end up in the suburbs. Yes, we'll even tell our kids about Santa Claus. 
Now, responsibility really is a good thing. There's something elementally good about getting married, raising your own family, and finding out how similar you are to your parents. 
It's grand to watch it happen; it's like seeing the sea­sons change. The fact that some things never change is satisfying to us 
moms. at some deep level. It's our nature, 
We need to see student and as the Scholastics say, we are loans in a different con-happy when we act according to our text. Student debt has an nature. impact on our education -However, at some point-we need to
Charles·-Roth·-­
and on our society. raise a toast to the 
The opportunity to take founder of the feast, out educational loans can as Bob Cratchitt once be an advantage, but it has toasted Scrooge. downsides which we often Someone is paying for 
seem to ignore. 
While we're students. loans don't have much effect on our lives. Once a scrnBster, wc go down and sign our student loan checks. 
If you'rc like me. this causes you some unease; then you promptly forget about it and go on with life. Student debt is like a credit card, only better: the gov­ernment pays the interest, and we have no responsibil­ity for as many years as we remain students. 
Unfortunately, at some point we need to start repay­ing those loans. This tends to become clear around the bHginnirtg of senior year, when your friends start Sllarching frantically for a job, or trying to get into med!law/graduate school where they can postpone re­paying their loans for another few years. 
Debt pressure is the central reality of law school (espeeially after first year), which makes us essentially qualified to talk about it. It costs something like $23,000 to be hem at Notre Dame Law School, and of course. most of us arrive here with debt from under­grad. 
It is normal to graduate law school with $70,000 or so of debt. Because our debt is so large, we start wor­rying about jobs before we're done with our first semester of law school. 
Loans do have an upside; debt encourages responsi­bility. We can't just be slackers. We have to become productive members of society. 
So we get jobs that pay lots of money. In the proeess, we grow up. We tend to get married, have kids, join the PTA. and even start playing softball. We 
our cozy suburban homes and our Christmas presents. 
That someone is big business, more likely than not (for so many of us, working for them is the easiest thing). Vast conglomerations of corporations form a huge, interlocking chain of fi­nancial interests. All of them hire lawyers. 
I don't agree with those who regard the whole capitalist megastructure as sinister or evil. That's not what I'm saying. 
Accretions of power and capital are morally neutral in themselves. But it's important to see what we're about to become a part of. 
For better or worse, in order to repay our loans. many of us will tie ourselves (and through us, our universities) into the larger business structures of soci­ety. 
'someone is paying 
for our cozy subur­ban homes and our Christmas presents. That someone is big business, more likely than not (for so many of us, working for them is the easiest thing). Vast conglomerations of cor­porations form a huge, interlocking chain of financial interests. All of them hire lawyers.' 

Education should enable us: the truth, we are told, shall set us free. But when we incur debt to be educat­ed, our minds tend to be placed in the service of the powerful in our society. Yes, I admit that this has al­ways been the case. 
Even in the middle ages-when the only people being educated were priests-kings recruited priests to be their chancellors, and handed over temporal power to bishops. There's something about education that makes it attractive to the powerful. and the powerful usually get what they want. 
The deal we (the educated) have always made is that we'll serve power, on the condition that we get to exer­cise our discretion in doing so. 
Dante was completely dependent on a petty Italian baron, but although he had to write a little propagan­da, he maintained his intellectual independence. Lawyers and doctors have managed to maintain some of their independence through bar associations and medical societies. 
However, when we get too closely associated with the power of the world, the choice facing us becomes more stark. St. Thomas More became friends with 
More. 

King Henry VIII and became chan­cellor. 
When the King decided to divorce his wife and defy the Pope, More had to choose between his ideals and his life. He died for his choice. 
Loans might not encourage us to work for the President (and presi­dents can't kill you like King Henry could). But loans tend to force us to take up employment with the big boys. 
When big business knows that we want to work for them more than they need us, then they can, if they wish, require us to give up our own judgment in exchange for employment. 
If we agree to this condition, we cease to be professionals, and we lose the freedom necessary to real­ly put our educations into elTect. 
Moreover, as Christians called on not to oppress the poor, we can be forced into ethical dilemmas not dissimilar to that faced by Thomas 
This is the road toward which we are directed by student loans. Whether we take it or not is up to us. As a policy matter, though, the question is not whether our student loans should be subsidized by the govern­ment, but whether a Catholic university ought to be pushing its students into debt, encouraging us to sub­mit our judgment to the world's power. The answer, I think, is no. 
Chuck Roth is a third year law student. 
•  IJOONESBURY  
I'M 5TIUO-fA7­TINGW/7J-IMY Net</ ffil?50N, N&ll-...  tu&U, MARK, I GUE-55 I 5AIAJA KINOOFTREMBUNG VULN&RABIU7Y. I 5AIA/ 5()11C:­ON& HON&5Tt,Y 'TRYING 70 COM& 7V 7CRM5 tu!TH aJHO He IUA5. I aJA5/MMWIA7UY INTR.IGU&P ANPArTRAC7Et?.  

GARRY TRUDEAU 
50 YOU 01//N'T JU5T5&EA FAMOUS 5UP£R­
5TAR. RA//10 
P&R50NAU7Y? 

• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Believe it or not.." 
-Robert Leroy Ripley 

VIEWPOINT
page 8 Wednesday, November 15, 1995 
• IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD 

Take the sugarcoat off white people's savagery 
I was shocked and amazed that The Observer would lack so much dignity and morality in allowing Fred Kelly to print such nonsense and lies in our paper, but history has shown us that one can't expect devils to speak the truth, and I've never met a devil I could trust. 
Webster's defines a devil as an extremely and malig­nantly wicked person; the supreme spirit of evil. The pale-skinned savage white devils have been the cause of pain and misery for all indigenous peoples and cui­tures it has come in contact with since their existence. This having been said, it is necessary to now evaluate gions, and way of life. 
It is the white man's law to invade the various na­tions of indigenous peoples, infect them with their filth and diseases, rape their women, kill the children, and rob them of their god-given identities in the name of Christianity and civilization, and to then condemn their descendants for trying to keep the mere fragments of their long gone civilizations alive. The filth of multicul­turalism, Kelly calls it. Filth I suppose Jor everything that isn't white! 
Natural law? I give no weight to the white man's natural law. Kelly wants to call the Indians (a term 
the overall endeavors of the which exists today because the 
Europeans i.e. Caucasians, or for all ================ fool that was Columbus 
intensive purposes, devils. The persisting culture of the 
Caucasians is best described as destructive, evil, deadly, greedy. It is perfectly obvious, it is common sense, it is self-evident that a race of reces­sive homozygous mutants are nothing more than devils! Kelly wants to call the Native Americans savages, but who are the real savages? Not the 
Indians, nor the Latinos, not the Asians or the Africans. Whose left? The Caucasians. 
. "White Americans are our natural enemies. By treating us so cruel we see them acting more like dev­ils than accountable men. Whites have always been an unjust, jealous, unmerciful, avaricious, and blood­thirsty set of beings, always seeking out power and authority" -David Walker. 
Kelly and others would like all us "colored folks" to believe that it is through this alleged natural law and the so-called (white?) Christian God that one can gain salvation. 
And what of this natural law? Is it not the white man's law Kelly is talking about? The law that says anyone, anything that isn't white and Christian is sav­age and uncivilized and therefore worthy of white intervention in order to gain salvation. 
It was the white man's law to wage war against China because the Chinese government wouldn't allow the British (drug dealers) to sell opium to their people and make them addicted so the devils could make their money. Savages! 
It is the white man's law to rob the west African coasts of between 70-120 million people (50-100 mil­lion of which never made it to the Americas) in order to sell them to the devil plantation owners to work as slaves to boost their inflated ideas of superiority (and to build a nation because the devil himself was too lazy) while stripping the Africans of their culture, reli­thought he was in India) sav­
Cri•Stl·ane ages, and I'll ask again, who 
are the real savages. Kelly is unwilling to direct

L•k 
his high criticism at his own

1 e y 
people. And what of his own

1 
people? What of Hitler? A lot of whites condemn Hitler, but he was a devil just the same, but the white masses call him 

the most savage of all devils as he is responsible for the deaths of millions of his own kind, :Jews, Poles, Czechs, Germans, etc. 
It's the white man's colonization that has ruined ancient cultures. It is the white man who is ruining Africa, and it is he who stands accountable for the per­ils of the world. White people tend to not think of themselves as a global race because if they did, they would surely be ashamed of who they are and the his­tory that runs through their veins. 
Khallid Muhammed was absolutely right when he called the_ devils sick. It is sick for the white devils to condemn nations as third world when it by his own misdeeds that their are. It is sick for the white man to flood our inner cities with drugs and guns to stupefy and numb the people, and then to criticize them for the killings and addictions (see the Black Panther Party for Self Defense and COINTELPRO). 
I will be the first one to say black people need to stand accountable for themselves, to be accountable to their own people and to be proud, righteous and strong, to leave the devil's alcohol, drugs and guns alone (I have yet to see a gun factory or drug manufac­turer or a black owned liquor store in the ghetto). But when will the white race be accountable for their sav­agery and destruction? 
The devils want us to stop being black and be like them, walk, talk, eat and live like them and until that happens, the devil will continue to oppress. How can any rational thinker call the track record of the white man devil anything less than savage?? Hello, Kelly! Did you catch that?? 
Now, I would suggest that anyone who thinks like Kelly get off his high horse, take a good look in the mirror and remember what your people have done be­fore you dare call anybody, any race, any peoples but your own, savage!! The nerve. 
In the devil's eyes, I would be a good black person if I didn't point my finger at them and tell them to look inside at their own savagery and destruction of the world. Oh yes, I could go on for days about the dam­age the white race had done to not only my people, but to the whole world. Let me repeat myself just in case anyone missed that, the whole world! 
Name-calling aside. just as easily as anyone can spew off the so-called great accomplishments of some white people, try naming off all the destruction pain and suffering they have caused. Do I need to go on? Do I need to take it to Abraham Lincoln {racist hyp­ocrite), Thomas Jefferson (supremacist who raped his black slaves who bore children by him), Hoover (who called the Black Panthers America's #1 enemy), to South Africa, India, Southeast Asia, Hiroshima, Vietnam, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, the Middle East, The Philippines, South America, etc., etc., etc . 
This being said, please try to understand that I don't hate white people, I have the right to, but I don't, and yes I know there is good in everyone and I know there­are good white people so there's no need to write long winded letters to the editor stating so, but I absolutely refuse to neglect or sugarcoat all the things they have done, especially when one, in particular, Kelly, decides to call any race of people, savages, and then anyone who cherished their heritage absolute fools. 
Pot. Kettle. Black. Don't insult me, especially when you don't know what you're talking about. No one can validly say anything about black people that I haven't already said. I've done my fair share of criticizing my own people. I know what we've done in the past and I know what we need to do in the future. 
Truth is truth, and facts are facts. And it seems as though I am being harsh toward white people, and yes, be assured that I very much am-hell, no one else will­but not any harsher than I am on my own people. It is not hard for me to understand that the last thing I need to do is to criticize someone for doing something I openly practice. It is not a difficulteoncept. 
"-'1 

Cristiane Likely is a senior living in Pasquerilla West Hall. She can be reached over e-mail at: clikely@artin.helios. nd. edu 
• MAY THE foRcE BE WiTH You 
Making merry at pre-Christmas SYRs 
Let us pause for a moment and pay homage to our most disasterous "Screw Your Roommate" event, affectionately tagged, the SYR. 
Stay with me, you cowards. I can see you attempting to camouflage yourself behind the dining hall salad bar. Like it or not, most students at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame have experienced some sort of misfortune when it comes to these highly acclaimed events. Let's face it -misadventure and SYRs have a lot in com­mon. 
According to an unofficial survey, most students anticipate SYRs and think they're an opportunity to make merry during this pre-
SYR blind dates enq in one of two categories: 
Unsuccessful and tense. This is when students go to extraordinary lengths to keep their date a secret, yet it doesn't matter because everyone has seen them together anyway. This gets to the point where it's uncomfortable to see one another on campus or at the bars, and ends with both parties ignoring one another and pretending as if they never met. 
Unsuccessful and indifferent. This is certainly the better of the two. These dates aren't necessarily kept a secret, yet the date aspect is reduced to the category of "a meeting of friends." This is the type of date the 
mass media prepares us to 

Christmas season. But few beyond a 
expect. So when romantic reasonable doubt, can say they are sparks don't fly, this leaves one a good idea. free to ask out the ex-date's Maybe that explains why even the roommate. A possibility for the 
next SYR.

most closed-fisted student springs Kara Pavll.k 
for a case of beer before one of _ If I were doing an all-time best these dances. As one friend of mine SYR story list, a prize would go said, "Alcohol has a way of taking to the freshmen "Dog Book" the edge off an SYR." I'd have to days; days when freshmen nom­agree. inate the best looking person in Consume enough and you may not their section to call and solicit 

remember who you came with. I heard a story a few years ago about one Zahm sopho­more who turned to his date -while dancing -and asked, "So, who did you come with tonight?" That's a question sure to win anyone bonus points. 
Too bad we haven't all had such opportunities for second introductions. 
You see, what usually occurs after a few rounds of certain beverages at an SYR doesn't always fair well in the days to come. Alcohol has a way of making one dis­cover they have a great deal in common with a friend's date, you know the one who does those weird things with his tounge. 
It also has a way of dissolving that wholesome sense of restraint. This includes expressing to a room full of people your true feelings about your evening's com­panion -good or bad. 
Any romance that does enter the SYR scene, is often as successful as cold fusion. This is especially true when it comes to blind dates. Of course, I have heard of a few cases where blind SYR dates have ended in relationships. Warning: These are exceptions. Most 
dates from the infamous book. · Conversations go something like this: 
John: "Hi, my name is John Doe. My dorm is having an SYR this weekend and I'd like to know if you could go." 
Jane: "What did you say your name was again? Hold on." He tells her and she mouths to her roommate to look up John in the Dog Book. The roommate frantical­ly flips through the pages and gives the thumbs-up sign. Jane gleefully responds, "Yeah, I'd love to go." 
John: "Great. You'll be going with my friend Dee Weeb." 
Jane: Shocked. "OK, that sounds...ugh... fine." Jane hangs up the phone and looks up Dee. He's not in the Dog Book. 
At this point, an A.P.B. is sent out to uncover infor­mation about Dee. The search continues until the man's height, weight, social security number and favorite colors are known. Describe it as a freshman trend. It's been going on for years. 
As if these transactions are not embarrassing enough, initial introductions have been worse. This leads me to the tale of a freshman of yore, whose name I will not mention for obvious reasons. A5 this woman was taking a shower, a friend thought she'd play a practical joke and steal her towel. Consequently, this woman assumed it'd be safe to walk down the hall without this necessity. What she didn't assume was that her blind Dog Book date would be waiting in her room. No word as to whether this dog was wagging his tail. 
If not for the ever-so-popular SYRs what would hap­pen to our entertainment on our cold November week­ends? Another game of cards. The bars. Admiring the pizza man from behind. 
SYRs might not be the most moral gigs in town, but they're guaranteed to provide some amusement. Come on, freely share those SYR tales. There's no need to hide. Yeah, right. 
Kara Pavlik is a senior at Saint Mary's. She can be reached via e-mail at pavl7087@jade.saintmarys.edu 
..

ACCENT
Wednesday, November 15, 1995 page 9 

A theatrical production requires more than just actors and actresses. The people behind the scenes are as much a part of the finished product as those in the spotlight. Notre Dame senior Marielie Boneau showcases her talent for set design in Six Degrees of Separation. 
By SARAH CASH ORE Assistant Accem Ediwr 
T
he lines are clean, the colors rich yet subdued, the shapes intricate in their simplicity. A rectangular painting, suspended in space, catches your !lye. Lay!lrs of levels quietly take shape, their structures strong but unob­trusive. You are struek by the abstrac­tion of this space, but also by its strength. 
If this is your reaction to the set of the Notre Dame Communication and Theatre Department's production of "Six l>egrtles of Separation," the objec­tive of Notre Dame senior and set designer Marielle Boneau has been real­ized. In keeping with the theme of the play, Boneau hoped to create a set 
which reflects the struggle between order and chaos characterizing John Guare's play. "Six Degrees of Separation" focuses on the relationship b1~tween Flan and Ouisa Kittredge, afflu­ent husband and wife New York art deai!Jrs. and a young man named Paul, who cleverly cons his way into the Kittrndges' home by daiming to be the 
There are also two sides to Boneau's story. As a Communication and Theatre major focusing on design, she has come a long way from her freshman year plan to become a doctor. Although she claims to be "scared to death" of acting, Boneau has always been interested in theatre and so she enrolled in Introduction to Theatre freshman year, intending to take the course simply to fulfill her Fine Arts requirement. As she was exposed to various aspects of the function, design, and construction of sets Boneau's interest in theatre increased. She made the switch to Communication and Theatre, a switch which has permanently changed the way she looks at things. Just as a pre­med major may pay more attention to the treatments, techniques, and proce­
dures used by the staff on "ER" than to the show's plot, Boneau finds herself paying more attention to the design and construction of the set than to the acting when she goes to the theatre. 
"When I go to plays, I watch the set. When I was in London last year we saw a play called 'An Inspector Calls.' At the end of the play, the house which is the the creative, practical, and technical which in many respects resembles ar­chitecture. "You can do so many differ­ent things just by the way you look at a play," Boneau observes. "You can do that with acting too, but this is con­crete." 
In approaching "Six Degrees of Separation," Boneau chose to focus her set design on the composition and sym­bolism of the Kandinsky painting. Author Guare once noted that the Kandinsky painting which hangs in the Kittredges' living room is the play, and Boneau has designed the set as a con­crete representation of Kandinsky's paintings. The shapes and colors of the basic set structures and the designs which are incorporated into these struc­tures are all derived from Kandinsky. 
Explaining the .significance of the Kandinsky, Boneau notes that the two sides of the painting represent order and chaos respectively, and it is this conceptual idea which forms the foun­dation of the play. When she began to formulate ideas for the design at the beginning of the summer, Boneau trav­eled to New York to examine first-hand Kandinsky's use of color and shape and his interpretations of order and chaos. The result, Boneau hopes, is not just a set, but "a piece of artwork within which the actors can perform the story." 
The creation of the set for "Six Degrees of Separation" has been an ongoing process of construction, evolu­tion, and compromise. According to Boneau, the most difficult part of a set designer's job is to work with a director who envisions a certain feel for a play and "to take that feel and translate it into shapes and forms." In the process of designing a set which would evoke director Reginald Bain's feel, Boneau has worked closely with Bain, adapting and modifying ideas and plans until the emergence of the set which audiences will see. 
Many who attend the Notre Dame pro­duction of "Six Degrees of Separation" may be familiar with the recent film adaptation of Guare's play, but Boneau carefully avoided watching the movie. Although she read the play several times, she did not want any precon­ceptions deriving from her observation of the movie set to influence her design. In designing the set, Boneau felt that it was important to create an environment which reflected the characters. "We started off with abstract spaces, but a very detailed, realistic living room. This idea changed when I showed the designs to the director." The set the audience will see is completely abstract, but its abstraction has been carefully crafted. "The play is about people trying to make connections with each other, and they don't quite do it," Boneau explains. "That influenced the idea of the levels. The characters in the play are physically on different levels -there's always something preventing them from mak­ing the connection." 

The chance to design the set for "Six Degrees of Separation" was a rare opportunity, but it was an opportunity for which Boneau was prepared. After assisting with the design and construc­tion of several sets both at Notre Dame and through an internship this past summer with the New Jersey Shakespeare Festival, Boneau had a def­inite idea of what designing a set entailed and was well aware of what could and could not be done .. "Except for coming up with the design, I've done all the preparatory work before, and that definitely helped," she says. Her sum­mer internship was also an .important experience which she says helped her overall confidence and knowledge. 
Being given the opportunity to design this set surpasses all of her previous experiences, however. It is more than just a project for which she is receiving academic credit; it is an immeasurably valuable experience. "It's a privilege to do this, and I didn't really expect it. It's not often that a student gets to design the set for a show on their college's mainstage, and I'm just really excited about it," she said. 
While Bonimu hopes to be involved in theatre in some capacity next year, she is not entirely sure where her interests will lead her. She would like to earn her MFA in Set Design and eventually design sets for theatre productions, but she says "right now I just don't have enough knowledge and experience to be a pro­fessional set designer." Boneau may not be a professional yet, but in constructing a set which functions as an emblematic representation of the themes of "Six Degrees of Separation," she is well on her way. 

son of aetor Sidney Poitier. Paul injects main part of the set falls down, and I chaos into a world of superficial order wanted to know how they did that," she and llVImtually forces Flan and Ouisa to said. reexami1111 their lives. Like the double­While the majority of Communication sidnd Wassily Kandinsky painting which and Theatre majors focus on acting serves as a powerful symbol within the rather than technical studies, Boneau play, there are two sides to every aspect explains her interest in set design, of this story. which she describes as a combination of 
Don't 1"orget to fiB out the Accent Entertainment lPo!l. You can senJ it via camnn.ns mail or bring it to the Observer office on dw th.irJ floor of Tlhe lLaFortune Stu(ften{ Center. 
--~-~-------------~~---~---~ ----------~---~· 
I... 
I I 
ACC6NT

page 10 Wednesday, November 15, 1995 
PLAYING WITH FIRE

By JOSH PICHLER 
Accent Literary Critic 
O
n August 5, 1949, a fire was sighted moving into Montana's Mann Gulch. At 5:00 that evening, fifteen smoke jumpers descended into the gulch on what appeared to be a routine day's work. Less than an hour later twelve of the men were dead. Controversy surrounded the inci­dent, the U.S. Forest Service con­ducted a rapid two-day investiga­tion, the results of which were clas­sified. 
Lawsuits were filed by grieving family members, accusing the Forest Service of inadequate train­ing. The suits specifically blamed foreman Wag Dodge. who survived the fire by lighting an "escape" fire. Some charged that his fire was responsible for the deaths. Though Dodge and the Forest Service were ultimately cleared of negligence, mystery has continued to surround the event. 
In 1978 Norman Maclean opened his own investigation of the Mann Gulch tragedy. As a youth, Maclean worked for the U.S. Forest Service during his summers in Missoula, Montana. After retir­ing from the University of Chicago's English department, Maclean immersed himself in a number of literary projects. Always fascinat­ed by the smoke jumper and forest fires, Maclean never forgot about the Mann Gulch fire. Its mystery intrigued him, thus Maclean set out on a quest for the truth of August 5, 1949. The result, 1992's "Young Men and Fire," is more than just a factual account of that day. 
It is an investigation of nature versus man, the thoughts one entertains when pursued by a twenty foot wall of flames. Ultimately, it is a journey into Maclean's own mortality, one that finally Jays twelve men to rest. 
For those who understand noth­ing about forest fires, "Young Men and Fire" is a fountain of knowl­edge. Taken from his own experi­ence and others', Maclean traces the process of fires, from a light­ning bolt into an inferno capable of traveling at four miles an hour, increasing its speed as the terrain steepens. Some fires are fueled by dead grass, others move through the air via trees. And some, called "explosions," erupt out of the still air (I'll leave the technical explana­tion to Mr. Maclean}. 
The book is also a history of the smoke jumper, the first troops usu­ally to arrive at a fire. Maclean explores at the psyche of one who voluntarily steps into the air for a few moments of peace before 
descending into a 

rrhere 's no P{ace {i~ 1{ome 
By LAUREN N. AIMONETTE 
Accent Literary Critic 


generation displaced," today's young adults 
upposedly struggle against a loss of core values 
nd instability besetting the nation. Generation X, victims of homes broken and divided, has no firm foundation to rely upon. Several modern novelists, poets, and musicians have· tried to capture this "unique" dilemma, but in her newest novel, "Coming Home," best-selling author Rosamunde Pilcher has slyly surpassed many of their attempts and raised the question of whether or not Generation X's situation is truly new. 
In her internationally acclaimed style, Pilcher returns us to War World II England, and the life of a typical middle-class adolescent growing up during the war years. ·Like today's "twenty-somethings," young protagonist Judith Dunbar tackles the question of what home means, and begins her own quest to find a place to call home. 
The child of a prestigious shipping merchant, Judith Dunbar spent the first years of her life in Colombo, Ceylon. At the age of ten, two years later than the typi­cal 1930s "British India" child, she returns to her native England with her pregnant mother. Settling into life in rural Porthkerris, she grows used to her new world, but never quite feels that England is Home. 
Four years later. contented with her friends and daily routine, Judith is devastated when the time comes for her mother to return to Colombo. The pain increases when the Duntlars are transferred to Singapore and Judith's mother, father, and four-year old sister, Jess, depart for this unknown land. 
Left behind in England to finish her education, Judith is sent to Saint Ursula's Boarding School where she first encounters her confident classmate Loveday Carey-Lewis. With her family overseas, Judith has only her elderly, but spirited, great-aunt Louise to turn to for the holidays. But Loveday's relatives and friends abound, and when Judith and Loveday become friends, Loveday invites Judith into the warm Carey-Lewis cir­cle. 
Traveling home with Loveday for a weekend, Judith falls in love with Nancherrow, the Carey-Lewis estate, on first sight. "She knew exactly why Loveday had run away from her old boarding-school in Hampshire and found her way back to this magical place, and made her mother promise never, ever to send her far away ag<Yn...despite the size of everything and the generous proportions. it was a country house, a family house, friendly and unpretentious." 
From that first weekend, Judith becomes part of the 
extended Carey-Lewis family, and when her aunt is 
killed a few months later, takes up almost permanent 
residence in "her pink Nancherrow bedroom." Soon 
i Ut 

she is closely entangled in the Carey-Lewis web of connections, making firm friendships with the young local doctor Jeremy Wells, special bonds with Colonel Carey-Lewis and the elderly Aunt Lavinia, and even falling in love with Loveday's elder brother Edward. Nancherrow becomes the closest thing to home Judith knows. 
Eighteen and about to graduate from Saint Ursula's, Judith is excited, looking forward to purchasing a car, spending the summer at Nancherrow, the future possi­bility of a year or two at Oxford, but most importantly, a year in Singapore with her family. Scheduled to leave in October, Judith anxiously awaits the chance to see her family once again when suddenly the political troubles looming on Europe's horizon burst into open strife. 
As England declares war on Germany, Judith, too, makes a declaration and determines to stay in England to help however she can. Over the next few years, Judith faces the struggles of war-time Britain. Growing up almost overnight, Judith helps the Carey­Lewis circle survive when its members are shattered by the nation's events. 
As homes and houses throughout England are bro­ken forever, Judith comes of age, and comes to a home of her own. With money inherited from her great­aunt, she purchases an old and happy house near Nancherrow. "Her own home. Roots. The one thing that she had never known and always longed for ... " After installing into her new house some of her loved friends who have been displaced by the war, she joins up with the Wrens in Portsmouth. She grows increas­ingly alarmed as the Japanese enter into the war and Singapore, where she believed her family was safe, becomes threatened. 
When Singapore finally falls, she discovers her moth­er and sister have managed to get on a escape boat, but the boat is sunk at sea and she can learn no more about their situation. 
Transferred by the Wrens to an overseas post, she ironically returns to Ceylon for the last two years of the war. Chance encounters, illnesses, marriages, and the complications of battle finish off the war-time era for Judith and she eventually emerges by V-J day fully an adult. In 1945, Judith "comes home," both physically to England, and psycholog.ically to a sense of herself. 
The natural dialogue and acute descriptions so typi­cal of Pilcher's writing create in "Coming Home" a novel to be enjoyed again and again. Although she fails to capture the family unit as cleverly as she did in her famous "The Shell Seekers," Pilcher's development of the individual Judith is right on. Her descriptions of her native England create pictures in the reader's eye so real one reaches for a cup of strong tea and almost expects to have to fight a cold Cornish rain when putting down the book. 
potential death­
trap. In particular, Maclean exam­ines the effects of Dodge's escape fire. This fire was started by Dodge to burn up fuel that would have been used by the main fire. Dodge then laid in the ashes until the fire passed around him. Maclean resolves the question of whether Dodge was responsible for the demise of twelve men. 
Most fascinating are Maclean's discussions with Robert Sallee and Walter Rumsey, the two other sur­vivors of Mann Gulch. The two youngest and most inexperienced crew members outraced the fire to the top of the gulch, estimated at a seventy-six percent slope, in 120 degree heat. In the summer of 1978, Maclean returned to Mann Gulch with these two men. He movingly recounts the two sur­vivors remembering what they had tried so hard to forget and what they saw that the more expe­rienced men missed. 
Content aside. "Young Men and Fire" is a worthwhile read on the sole basis of Norman Maclean's unparalleled use of the English lan­guage. He possesses the rare trait of expressing in a few words what it takes other authors paragraphs to do. He showcased this ability in his autobiography, "A River Runs Through It," and proves he can cre­ate the same magic when writing about the lives of others. 


Although a bit lengthy, the novel is never slow or tedious. but rather leaves the reader wanting to know more and more about the lives of the characters he or she meets. From the first introduction of the charac­ters, the book is enthralling and nearly addictive. This makes the one short-coming of the book perhaps more evident: the conclusion is a bit too neat and rapid. sud­denly making the reader aware the characters are fic­tional, and not the living, breathing people he or she has come to love. 
All in all, however, the book is not only a thoroughly enjoyable good read, but also thought-provoking. As Judith herself explains, "Other people's houses are always fascinating. As soon as you go through the door for the first time, you get the feel of the atmos­phere, and discover something about the personalities of the people who live there." In "Coming Home," Pilcher invites the reader to step into the front door of a number of houses, and discover along with Judith what exactly it is that.makes a house a home. 
---~l 
Wednesday, November 15, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 I 

I I 
Augnton sparks Ha\\'ks rally 
By TOM SAlADINO 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA Coming off the bench suits Stacey Augmon just fine. 
Augmon scored five points in the final 1:25 and the Atlanta Hawks rallied to score the final nine points and beat the Charlotte Hornets 111-104 Tuesday night. 
Augmon, a starter last sea­son when he averaged 13.9 points, led six Hawks in double figures with a season-high 20 points, put Atlanta ahead to stay with a three-point play at 105-104 with 1:25left to play. 
lie then added two free throws 19 seconds later for a 107-104 lead, and the Hawks clinched their fourth straight victory when Andrew Lang converted one of two free throws with 18.3 seconds left. 
Augmon, averaging nearly 15 points coming off the bench this season, is teamed with Spud Webb and Craig Ehlo on the Hawks' second team, giv­ing Atlanta plenty of quick­
ness. "We've all accepted our roles," said Augmon. Ehlo added 10 points and Webb nine. 
"Augmon is playing real well, him and Craig," starting guard Steve Smith said. "You can't call them substitutes. They're a different type." 
"We're happy with the team, and the way those two are playing," he said of the Hawks 5-2 start, their best since 1988-89 when they also were 5-2. 
"Augmon and Ehlo were the big difference. They bring energy," said Hawks coach Lenny Wilkens. 
The Hornets went up 104­102 with 1:58 left when Matt Geiger converted a three-point play after a missed Charlotte shot. 
Charlotte took a 89-83 lead early in the final period on a pair of 3-pointers by Dell Curry and Glen Rice before At­lanta reeled off a 13-0 run keyed by Augmon to take a 96-89 lead with 6:31 left. 
Augmon stole the ball from Rice at midcourt to break an 89-89 tie with 8:22 left. 
"They (Atlanta) ,.stepped their defense up," said Rice. "Anytime you get in to a crunch situation and you step your defense up like that, things pretty much work in your favor." 
Larry Johnson led the Hornets with 34 points and Rice added 25. 
"Larry brought us back. He's played well in the fourth quarter two games in a row," said Charlotte coach Allan Bristow. 
Blaylock added 19 points for the Hawks, Grant Long had 16, Lang 13, Steve Smith 11 and Craig Ehlo 10. 
The Hornets led 60-59 at halftime behind the 23 points of Johnson, who was 8-of-9 from the field, including a 3­pointer. 
Blaylock, who connected on 4-of-4 3-pointers in the open­ing quarter, led the Hawks with 12 first-half points -all in the opening quarter. Augmon added nine points in the second period for Atlanta. 
Bucks edge Spurs to halt losing streak 
By ARNIE STAPLETON 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE 
Glenn Robinson scored 36 points and keyed a 13-0 fourth­quarter run Tuesday night as the Milwaukee Bucks beat San Antonio 98-84 and snapped an eight-game losing streak to the Spurs. 
Despite shooting just 42 per­cent from the field, the Bucks beat San Antonio for the first time since Dec. 8, 1991, sealing the victory by making 12 of 14 free throws in the final 3:09. 
The Bucks also halted their four-game losing streak, snapped San Antonio's four­game winning streak and de­nied Spurs coach Bob Hill his 200th NBA victory. 
Vin Baker had 7 points and 15 rebounds and Terry Cummings had 10 points and 10 rebounds against his former teammates. 
Sean Elliott had 31 points and nine rebounds for San Antonio and David Robinson added 26 points and 15 rebounds. 

The Bucks went on a 13-0 spurt after Avery Johnson's free throw with 9:11 remaining gave San Antonio a 72-71 lead, its first since 38-37. 
Robinson started the run with a jumper and capped it four minutes later when he stripped Elliott at halfcourt and laid it in for an 84-72 lead with 5:02 left. 
Baker, who led the Bucks in scoring four times in their first five games, didn't score his first points until 90 seconds before halftime. 
But his defense helped hold the Spurs to just one basket over the first six minutes of the second period as the Bucks took a 50-44 lead at the break. 
Forward Carl Herrera (ham­string) came off the injured list Tuesday and scored 6 points in 21 minutes in his first game for San Antonio. 
The former Houston Rocket signed a free agent contract Sept. 29 but didn't play in the preseason because he was recovering from surgery on his right shoulder. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. ar 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
1111111  LOST  11111111  $35.000NR. INCOME potential.  
NOTICES  Prescription Glasses  Reading books. Toll Free 1-800­898-9778 Ext. R-2013 for details.  
Brown/orange and black around  
Mark's Towing  lenses.  Thin gold frames.  WantedII  
Roadside Service, Tire Changing,  Light weight lenses.  Individuals, Student Organizations  
Jumpstarts,Many Services ..  Lost during last week of Oct-now.  to Promote  
We Accept Checks & Charge  Call Mike @ 1 0782  SRING BREAK Earn MONEY and  
Student & Senior Discounts  FREE TRIPS  
. • Damage Free Towing  LOST: Small roundish green  CALL INTER-CAMPUS PRO­ 
• 24 Hours • Motor Club Servicer  sunglasses -prescription -kind  GRAMS  
PhN(219)271-2382  of valuable -lost btwn Lafortune  http://www.icpt.com  
and DeBartolo Tues 2:45  1-800-327-6013  
For more information and assis­ Call277-3201 Patrick.  
tance regarding the investigation of  1 Time Cash Offer  
financing, business opportunities  LOST: my prize posession; fuzzy  Transfer computer files from Mac to  
and work-at-home opportunities,  plaid J.Crew gloves in 101  IBM. Set up PageMaker 5.0 in IBM.  
contact the Better Business Bureau  DeBartolo on the day of the  Greatpay.273-1952  
of Michiana. 52303 Emmons Rd.,  PHYSIC test. I flunked the test, at  
Swte 9, South Bend, IN 46637­ least let me have my glolves back.  Will Pay $ For Used Mac  
4200; or call the BBB at 219/277­ HUGH REWARD-it's going to get  Nonprofit needs used computers.  
9121 or 800/439-5313.  cold soon. Deborah X4320  Good price. 273-1952  
Baby Sitter  WANTED FOR XMAS GIFT: Video  
Mother of 2 will take care children  Navy Aloma Coat  tapes of 1995 NO Football Season.  
of ages 0-4 years. 273·4933.  and  NAME YOUR PRICE.  
Navy J.Ashford Sweater  402-551-8436  
Spnng Break Bahamas Party  taken from Senior Bar on Thurs..  
Cruise I Early Specials! 7 Days  11/9. PLEASE return- PART-TIME BRANCH CLERK  
$2791 Includes 15 Meals & 6  I'M FREEZINGIIII  American General Finance, one of  
Parties! Great Beaches/Nightlllel  No questions asked ..Maria X4034  the leading consumer finance orga­ 
Prices Increase 11/21 & 12/151  nizations, is seeking a responsible  
Spnng Break Travel1-800-678­ individual to fill a part-lime Branch  
6386  LOST: CALCULUS BOOK &  Clerk position in our South Bend  
NOTEBOOK IN COPY SHOP IN  office.  
Spnng Break! Panama Cltyl Early  LAFORTUNE ON MONDAY. NOV.  The Branch Clerk provides routine  
Specials! 8 Days Oceanview Room  13.  office and clerical support to the  
With Kitchen $1291 Walk To Best  RETURN TO MAIN DESK IN  branch.  
Barsl Key West $2591 Cocoa Beach  LAFORTUNE OR CALL  Flexible around school hours. For  
Hilton $1691 Prices Increase 11/21 & 12/151 1-800-678·6386 Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break Specials! 111% Lowest Price  233-8273 & LEAVE MESSAGE. WANTED ••• FREE TRIPS & CASH...  immediate consideration please call 291-1019.I Equal Opportunity Employer. I FOR RENT  
Guarantee! 7 Nights Air From South  Find out how hundreds of students  
Bend & Hotel From $4191 Book  are already earning FREE TRIPS  HOMES FOR RENT NEAR NO  
Early! Save $1 00 On Food/Drinks!  and LOTS OF CASH with  232-2595  
Spring Break Travel1-800·678­ America's #1 Spring Break compa­ 
6386  ny! Sell only 15 trips and travel !reel  THAT PRETTY PLACE. Bed and  
Choose Cancun, Bahamas,  Breakfast Inn has space available  
WEEKLY MIDWAY TAVERN  Mazatlan, or Florida I CALL NOWI  for football wknds. 5 rooms with pri­ 
B10W4TH MISH.  TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAV­ vate baths. Located in Middlebury,  
MON THE JAZZ FIRM 7:30-9:30  EL (800)95-BREAKI  30 miles from campus. 1-B00-418­ 
WED OPEN MIKE/JAM 9:00  9487  
THURS IRISH MUSIC 9  
2BLKS S.OF 100 CTR  TRAVEL ABROAD AND WORK­ Comfortable 2 Bdrm home. 1 mi. to  
255·0458 NEED ID  Make up to $25-45/hr. teaching  campus. $450/mo. Call Chuck  
basic conversational English in  Majcher at 273-0860.  
Traveling east on Rt 80/Pa TP past  Japan, Taiwan, or S. Korea. No  
Susqu. River lor xmas, I need a  teaching background or Asian lan­ ROOMMATE WANTED: To share  
ride-Call Jared@ X0508  guages required. For information  2-bdr. house w/ F Grad student  
call: (206)632-1146 ext. J55841  and dog. near campus, wash/drier.  
ILOST & FOUND I  Roomate needed for 2nd sem. Male Grad. stu. prel. Nice 2br apt.  quiet neighborhood. $150/mo +. Call Jackie 232-7970  
near campus $280/mo. 277-3107  READY NOW FOR SPRING  
"LOST"  SEMESTER  
Black Pagemart Motorola Pager.  I need a ride to D.C. or Philly for  3-4 Bedroom 2 blks from campus  
Has been reported Iosito the com­ Thanksgiving. Will help pay gas &  Newly remodeled with W/D OW  
pany and Is now inactive.  drive. x4931  Fridge Stove Huge Yard  
Its return would be appreciated.  Full Basement and Monitored  
If found please call Nlkole at  Heading East for Thanksgiving?  Security Sys Included  
4·1265. Thankyou.  Need $$? Need a ride for two,  $240/person or $900/mo  
dropped off somewhere along  Will help individuals needing a  
Lost· Unique 1967 HS Class Ring  80/90 near Cleveland!  Call 4­ room.  
All Gold-No stones-Julie-4-2706  1319.  Call Mike @ 233-9609 for details  

ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE HOME FOR 
ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. CALL 272-6194 AM OR 232-9620 PM 
& ASK FOR SANDY. 
6 BDRM HOME NEAR NO. NEXT FALL.272-6306 
FOR SALE 
SPEAKER: Liner Phase Studio Monitor...like new. Great for parties & bands. $250 OBO. Jell 233­2460. 
GREAT CHRISTMAS GIFT IDEAl Give a child you know the gift of reading. Colorful and unique per­sonalized books for children. 15% student discount. Call 1-800-375­3340. 24 hr. recorded message gives details. 
Brand new gold pocket watch for sale. $$$ less than jewelersl!l Great X-mas giftl Paulina x2985 
PERSONAL 
Come see NO's finest Women Artists! Come to the Women's Resource Center SPEAK OUTIIII Poetry, Short Stoires, Dancding, Paintings and Emily Lordi II 8pm to 1Opm -LaFort. Ballroom It's Freel Ill 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center 
We're open for your conveniencelll Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight Fri.: 7:30am -7:00pm Sal.: Noon-6:00pm Sun.: Noon -Midnight 
(closed home football Saturdays) 
0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0 
QUALITY COPIES, QUICKLVIII THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0 
Hey GradAmStuds, Make Leo Marx proud Good Luck this weeki 
I need a ride to north NJ for Thanksgiving. Will help with driving and$$$ Lara X2550 
I just don't know Linus, I just don't know ... 

1/l/lll/lllllll/lllllllllll/llllllllllll/lll/llllll 
SUZAN STARS', Numerologist 
Let her tell you how your numbers can decide your future II 
This Thursday ..... Nov.16 LaFo. Ballroom ..... 7:00pm FREE FOOD & PERSONAL 
READINGS 

lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll/llll/1/lllllllll/llll 
Calif. actress-writer wife & photog­rapher husband wish to adopt new­born. Will provide love, nurturing environ., educ., financial security. Hollywood Hills home has large back yard and loving dog. Call 818/241-5535 collect. Legal & Confidential. 
ADOPTION ... INTERESTED IN HEARING MORE?? Warm, professional indiana couple, lots of experience with children. would love to talk to you about what we can offer your precious child. Stability, nurturing, love of learning, travel, lots of extended family, and full-time mom are just some of the things that your child would experi­ence In our home. Interested In hearing more? CALL US (day or night). Expenses paid. Theresa & Lee 1-800-600-8428. 
thank you to the person who spiked the punch at the Holy Cross Formal last Friday 
hey, we pay good money for those horoscopes. none of this 900-number junk ... 
ADOPTION A wonderful home awaits your baby. Happily married, financially secure couple will give much love. Expenses paid. Call Margaret or Peter at 800-529-8386. 
I will pay bucks for a ride to Saint Louis for Thanksgiving Break. Help! I Call Caroline at 284-4349 
Hey cowtipper,did you puke in the -pasture?Tag team next time? 
Hello all you nerds. Do you reallly want country music to represent your musical tastes? You should really fill out that Accent Entertainment poll from yesterday's Observer. Accent will thank you. You would think with a circulation of 13,000, we'd get atleast2,000 back. Come on guysl Please? Accent is begging. Do you really want to see us beg? If you need a poll, come to The Observer (314 LaFun) and you might just get a prize. 
MK--l will trade you my sweater for your blazer? please? No bagels for you if you don't.-kn 
mcgrath ... velveeta and maddog? you are so cheap I ... nannery 
I could tell you you're stupid too. Bull won't. 
joey rocks! Go ahead and donate. We're walling. 
Tracey should copy edit every night 
Good god why? (oops, broke my promise) 
Need FREE ride to Boston for Thanksgiving? NO Alum and family leaving for Peabody Wed. AM returning Sun. Share driving. 282­1961 
Heh heh heh ... 
Hmm. That face you make. Look I so old to young eyes? No... of course not. I do, yes, I dol Sick have I become. Old and weak. When nine hundred years old you reach, look as good you will not. Hmm? Soon will I rest. Yes, forever sleep. Earned II, I have. Master Yoda, you can't die. Strong am I with the Force ... but not that strong I Twilight is upon me and soon night must fall. That is the way of things ... the way of the Force. 
Boy do I hate Star Wars quotes. Boy are they lame. mcgrath ... ! must agree ... nannery 
Mikey Day, 
Happy Birthday! . with love, 
Fabio 
PS: Thanks for the pen 
Mike Day, Just Kidding! Happy Birthday! Your Friends, Jan H., Teray, Jen P.. & Krls 
I'm so glad to be a part of an "ideo­logically-sympathetic campus media organ." I've never been an organ before. It feels kinda neat. 
nannery..i'm cheap when It matters. besides, you Introduced me to wine in a box, now that's class ... mcgrath 
COME TO THE SPEAK OUTIIII Notre Dame Women in Artl Tonight8-10 pm LaFort. Ballroom! It's Free. It's fun, It'll be darned entertainingllllll 
hmmm. nothing to say 
page 12 
The Observer • SPORTS 


Magic hand Bulls first loss 

time in club history, played without Dennis Rodman, who was put on the injured list Tuesday with a strained calf. 
Hardaway, matched up against Jordan on offense but not on the defensive end, outscored him 14-10 in the opening quarter. 
But the Bulls built a 29-16 lead before Hardaway, who had 17 of his team's first 22 points, began to get much help from his teammates. 
Orlando wiped out most of the 13-point deficit with a 14-2 spurt, then tied the game at 45 on Scott's with 31 seconds left in the half. 
Jordan countered with his third 3-pointer for Chicago's 48-45 halftime lead. 
A pair of free throws by Hardaway gave the Magic their first lead of the game just over two minutes into the third quarter, but neither team as­serted itself offensively until Orlando made a push in the last 
2:29 of the period. 
Two free throws by Brian Shaw snapped a 57-57 tie and Hardaway made a difficult shot on the baseline and banked in a 3-pointer over Pippen to put the Magic up 68-62 going into the fourth quarter. 
Chicago, meanwhile, missed 13 of 18 shots in the third peri­od and got just one point from Jordan (0-for-3 from the field) on a technical free throw. 
The Bulls were outscored 23­14 in the quarter and fell behind 81-71 before methodi­cally climbing back into the game. 
Pippen scored six points and Jud Buechler delivered a clutch 3-pointer to finish a 12-2 spurt and tie the game for the last tim_e, 83-83, with 2:40 left. 
Wednesday, November 15, 1995 
By FRED GOODALL 
Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla. 
Anfernee Hardaway hit a clutch 3-pointer with just over a minute to go and Nick Ander­son made four free throws down the stretch Tuesday night as the Orlando Magic held off the previously unbeaten Chicago Bulls 94-88. 
Hardaway scored 36 points on 12-for-18 shooting, stealing the show from Michael Jordan in a highly anticipated early-season showdown between the top two contenders for the Eastern Conference title. 
Jordan sparked Chicago's comeback from a 10-point, fourth-quarter deficit but missed his last two shots and finished with 23 points -nine below his league-leading aver­age. 
Scottie Pippen had 17 points and Toni Kukoc added 16 for the Bulls. 
Dennis Scott's three-point play snapped an 83-83 tie with 1:45 to go. Hardaway's fourth 3­pointer made it 89-83, while Anderson, who had 16 points, made 4-of-8 free throws in the final minute. 
Orlando improved the best start in its seven-year history to 6-1, despite the absence of injured All-Star center Shaquille O'Neal, who is out until late December with a bro­ken right thumb. 
Chicago, which had won its first five games for the first 


Associated Press 

HEAR ABOUT AN EXCITING CAREER IN COMMERCIAL BANKING 
Learn about FIRST OAK BROOK BANCSHARES, INC., headquartered in Oak Brook, IL and its Management Trainee Program on Wednesday, November IS from 
6:30 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Student Center. 


Michael Jordan sparked fourth-quarter rally, but it came up short. 

WEDNESDAY Nov 15 DOORS OPEN AT 9:00 PM : DANCE fLOOR OPEN 'TILL CLOSE. CASH BAR OPEN 'TILL 3 AM. 
F ~ ~: ADMISSION-MUST BE 11 OR OVER 'fl.~£ MUNCHIES, UNTIL THEY RUN OUT. 'f,,fiE CHICKEN WINGS, UNTIL THEY RUN OUT. 

HOT. 
Burn, baby, burn-disco inferno. 
MAC. 
Not the burger, pal-the killer computer. 
Cheap. Not as cheap as a taco, but hey. 

Being astudent is hard. So we've made buying aMacintosh• easy. So easy, Deferred Payment Plan, you can take home aMac~ without having to make asingle in fact, that prices on Macintosh personal computers are now even lower than payment for up to 90 days.tWhich meansyou can also take home the .Ji their already low student prices. And with the Apple" Computer Loan and 90-Day power to make any student's llfe easier. The power to be your bese App1e-
Notre Dam~ Computer Store Room 112 CCMB •631-7477 M-F 9am-Spm 
'Hey, you woulilnl gitlli;~ur money away to just anyone, wouldyou? Neither can we. Offers expire january 15, 1996. No payment ofprincipal or interest UJill be requiredfor 90 days. Interest accruing during this 90-day period will be added to the principal and UJill bear interest which UJi/1 be included in the repayment schedule. "The monthly payment quoted above is an estimate based on a total loan amount of$1,913.83, which includes asample purchase price of$1,799for the Peiforma 6214CD system shoum above. The Iota/loan amount also includes a 6.0% loan origina­ttonfee. Interest is variable based on the Commercial Paper Rate plus aspread of6.35%. For example, the month ofOctober 1995 had an interest rate of12.17% wtlh an annualpercentage rate (APR) of13.95%. Monthly paymentfor the total loan amount described above would he $32.86. M011tbly [Jaymetll arulAPR shown assumes IW deferment ofprincipal arul does no/Include stale or local sales tax. Monthly payments may vary depending 011 actual computer system prices, Iota/loan amounts, stale and loca/5/lles taxes, and a change In the mot~lbly varl4ble Interest rate. Prequalificalion expediles the loan process, but does no/ guarantee final loan approval. Subsequent acceptable verification documents must be received before your loan is approt~d. Whew, pop quiz on Monday. ©1995 Apple Computer, Inc. All rif)Jts reserved. Apple, the AfJPie logo, Macintosh and "The power to beyour best" are registered trademarks ofApple Computer, Inc. Mac is a trademark ofApple Computer, Inc. CardShop Plus is a registered trademark ofMindscape. All Macinlos/J computers are designed to be accessible to individu­als Ulilh disabilily. 7b learn more (U.S. only), call800-600-7808 or m 800-755-0601. · 
Wednesday, November 15, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Student Tennis Cllnh: -This Wed., Nov. 15, the varsity ten­nis teams and HecSport, will be sponsoring a student tennis clinic from 6:30 p.m. to 8:30 
p.m. at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. There is no fee or advnnce registration neces­sary. Open to all ND students. 
Ski Tenm -There will be n mandatory meeting for all ski club members going on the Christmas trip to Aspen on Thurs. Nov. 16 at 8:00 p.m. in Nelwland 127. Please bring your balnnce of $310. It' you have any questions eall Ryan Melnerney at 273-2420. 
Women's Lacrosse -J>ractke will be in Loftus on Nov. 15 from 9-10 p.m. 
Drop-in Volleyball • Will take plaee on Tuesday. November 14, 21, 28 and December 5 at the Joyce Center form 8-11. No advance sign-ups or estab· Jished teams are necessary. 
WVFI -Join hosts Matt Hoening and Dave Bucolo Sunday night on Sports Talks airs every Sunday at 9 pm on 640AMWVFI. 
Rm:kne Thanksgiving 1995 ­Wed. Nov. 2Z:building 7am· 7pm; pool 7-9am. noon-6pm; Wt. room 3-6pm. Closed Thurs. Fri. Nov. 24-bullding 7am-7pm; pool 7·9am, noon· 2pm; wt. room closed. Sat. Nov. 25-buildlng lOam· 8:30pm; pool 1-6pm; Wt.. room closed; fnmily hours 2-5pm. Sun. Nov. 26-building 10ma­11pm; pool 7-llpm; wt. room noon-6pm; family hours 2-5 pm. 

Football 
continued from page 16 
and he has a strong arm, but it's not accurate." The latter quality scares Holtz. 
"I don't know wh<!t to expect when the ball is snapped," Holtz commented. "With Powlus, you know what to expect. That's not the case with Krug or Jackson." 
The other main issue to be re­solved in Colorado Springs is whether or not the Irish will be extended a major bowl invita­tion. A win would nearly ce­ment a top ten finish in the polls, thus guaranteeing Notre Dame a spot in the top three al­liance bowls: Fiesta, Orange, or Sugar. 
Should the Irish return to South Bend 8-3, the likelihood for a major bowl bid would be greatly diminished. Notre Dame would still be eligible, but a fourth-ranked Tennessee club would likely be tabbed instead. 
That would drastically limit other options, as most bowls have conference tie-ins for both spot. The Gator Bowl is one such game, but the Jacksonville officials have indicated that an exception would gladly be made for the Irish. 
Would the pay-out be enough for the University? That's a question Thomas Krug and Jar­ious Jackson would like to see 
never addressed. 
Free Pregnancy Test Referrals to Support Agencies Confidential Counseling Call234-0363 (24 hours) SOUTH BEND 417 N. St. Louis Blvd. (Convenient to Campus)  
Spring Break 1996 TRAVEL FREE!! Jamaica. Cancun. Bahamas panama City. Daytona. Padre .. Great low, low prices .. Free Trip on only 15 sales Call for a FREE ~ jnformatjoo packet I rr ~ Sun Splash Tours u 1-800-426-7710  
ANNOUNCING THE INTRODUCTORY SEMINAR FOR THE CONCENTRATION IN PHILOSOPHY AND LITERATURE ENGL 410A:01 (3251)/PHIL 409:01 (3250) PHILOSOPHY, TRAGEDY, AND IRONY TH 2:45-4:25 · 4 credit hours Profs. Gerald Bruns and Stephen Watson This intensive 4 credit seminar is the entry course to the Concentration in Philosophy and Literature. It will pursue interdisciplinary approaches to literary, theoretical, and philosophical texts. This course will explore some versions of the idea that ( 1) philosophy originates as a response to the crises of justice and rationality represented most fully in tragic drama, and that (2) irony is the fonn of life proposed by philosophy as a guarantee against tragedy. Students will be asked to write a series of brief responses to the readings in addition to a final seminar paper of about 2,500-3,000 words. Reading list will include texts by: Sophocles, Plato, Beckett, Irigaray, Holderlin, Nietzsche, Bakhtin, Cixous. Permission required from Prof. Krzysztof Ziarek, Director of the Concentration, 631-563 7 Flyer describing the concentration is available in the English Department. THIS COURSE IS OPEN TO JUNIORS AND SOPHOMORES  

Baseball 
continued from page 16 

seven homers and 38 HBI for Oak Forest High School in Illi­nois last season. He led the team to a 24-4 record and a fifth-place rank by the Chicago Tribune. 
"Larry is the sleeper of the group. Not a lot of people know about him," Mainieri said. "But he can be an impact player for us." 
Graduation cost the Irish pitcher Tim Kraus, who led the squad in saves last season and was the leader in wins in 1994. Looking to fill the void in the staff is right-hander Steve Szczepanski of Lombard, Illinois. 
"Steve has a chance to be a great pitcher for Notre Dame," Mainieri said. "He has an out­standing curveball and throws in the mid-80's. In a couple of years, I expect him to be throw­ing 90 miles per hour." 
Szczepanski was named "Best of the Class of 1996" by the Illi­nois State Baseball Coaches As­sociation for his 5-5 record and 
1.47 EHA while a junior at Glenbard East High School. He was named ali-DuJ>age Valley, and led his prep team to a 22­14 record. Sszczepanski's sum­mer team finished second in the CABA 18-and-under World Series this summer. 
The Irish acquired another righthander in Scott Cavey, 
who earned second-team all­..­
state honors and first-team all­conference honors for Creighton Preparatory High School. Cavey went 6-1 for his high school squad and 8-2 with a 1.92 EHA for his American Legion team. 
"Scott has the natural tools necessary to become a fine col­lege pitcher," Mainieri said. "He's got a tall, lean body with a great delivery. lie should de­velop into an outstanding piteh­er for Notre Dame." 
Also signing for the Irish was catcher Jamie Hay. A three­year starter at Hancho Buena Vista High School in California, he earned second-team all-con­ference honors last season. 
"Jamie comes from one of the toughest competition areas," said Mainieri. "I expect he'll come in and compete with JeiT Wagner behind the plate." 
Finally, Notre Dame picked up infielder Jeff Perconte of BuiTalo Grove. 
Perconte was named to the Mid-Suburban all-conference team in each of the past two seasons for Buffalo Grove High School, where he was a team­mate of current Irish freshman Chris McKeown. Perconte also led his Arlington Heights American Legion team to the 1994 Illinois state cham­pionship. 
"Jeff is a real gamer who loves to play," Mainieri said. "He's an outstanding infielder who gives us good depth in that area." 


Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 
multimedia survival kit for passing anatomy. Dissect, identify, study systems and regions. Prepare better, faster. 
Special student price -$149.95 
Visit your college bookstore or call 1-800-322-1377. 
DART 

HIST 451A 01 3912 HIST 454A 01 3027 CLOSED SECTIQNS AS HIST 457A 01 3914 OF 7:00 P.M. 11lHl9S HIST 473A 01 3918 
liPS 412 01 4424 ACCT 450 01 4335 LAW 695 01 0121 AFAM 370 01 4349 LAW 695 02 2315 AFAM 401 01 3624 LAW 695 03 1411 AFAM 414 01 3626 LAW 695 04 2464 AFAM 454 01 3028 LAW 695 05 1876 AMST 481E 01 3650 LAW 695 06 1087 AMST 489E 01 3652 MUS 220 01 2538 ANTH 386 01 3661 MUS 222 01 0227 ARCH 562 01 0529 MUS 226 01 2513 ARCH 564 01 1061 PHIL 239 01 4098 ARCH 566 01 2274 PHIL 244 01 1081 ARCH 585 01 1058 PHIL 245 01 3033 ARHI 169 01 0319 PHIL 246 01 2342 ARST 297S 01 1069 PHIL 247 01 3383 8A 490 01 2840 PHIL 250 01 4100 8A 490 02 2318 PHIL 261 01 0310 ECON 401 01 3717 PHIL 261 02 1343 ENGL 300N 01 3733 PSY 431 01 4135 ENGL 301A 01 3735 RLST 335 38 9538 ENGL 3018 01 3736 soc 332 01 4169 ENGL 302A 01 3737 soc 338 01 4170 ENGL 314 01 3738 soc 346 01 3034 ENGL 325 01 3741 soc 374 01 2023 ENGL 3408 01 3744 soc 422 01 4174 ENGL 383 01 3748 THEO 265 01 2807 ENGL 396A 01 3751 THEO 290C 01 4210 ENGL 417 01 4360 THTR 230 58 9758 ENGL 467A 01 3769 THTR 272 60 9760 ENGL 473A 01 3771 THTR 276 62 9762 ENGL 477A 01 3772 THTR 276 64 9764 ENGL 491 01 0509 ENGL 492A 01 3777 GOVT 301 01 3811 CLASSES THAT WILL GOVT 373 01 3821 REQrE~ AT 7;00 P,M, HIST 403A 01 3888 11l1Sl2S 
HIST 422A 01 3462 HIST 424A 01 3899 HIST 403A 01 3888 HIST 427A 01 3903 MUS 222 01 0227 HIST 447A 01 3907 MUS 226 01 2513 HIST 449A 01 3910 PHIL 246 01 2342 
soc 346 01 3034 
~---------------~~-------------...........-~----------­
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 

No contest as Big Unit claims AL Cy Young 
Wednesday, November 15, 1995 
By BEN WALKER 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Randy Johnson, whose intim­idating fastball and improved controlled the Seattle Mariners to the playoffs for the first time, overwhelmingly won his first AL Cy Young Award on Tues­day. 
Johnson got all but two of the 28 first-place votes in beco}:Iling the first Seattle player to win a major postseason award in the team's 19-year history. 
Johnson came within one vic­tory of becoming the first AL player since Hal Newhouser of Detroit in 1945 to win pitch­ing's Triple Crown. Johnson went 18-2, led the majors in strikeouts for the fourth straight year with 294 and led the league with a 2.48 ERA. 
The 6-foot-10 left-bander, who combined his 100 mph fastball with the best control of his career, was the only pitcher listed on all 28 ballots and fin­ished with 136 points in voting by the Baseball Writers Asso­ciation of America. 
Cleveland reliever Jose Mesa received the other two first­place votes and was runner-up with 54 points. Boston knuck­leballer Tim Wakefield was third with 29, followed by 1994 winner David Cone, who fin­ished the season with New York, with 18. Baltimore's Mike Mussina, who led the league with 19 wins, was fifth with 14. 
Despite his reputation for be­ing a power pitcher, Johnson said this year that he wanted to be regarded for more than merely throwing fastballs. And unlike the greatest power pitcher ever -Nolan Ryan, who dominated for 27 seasons -Johnson won a Cy Young Award. 
Johnson, 32, set a league record for the best winning percentage by a pitcher with at least 20 decisions. The only pitcher ever to better Johnson's .900 percentage is Greg Maddux, who went 19-2 this year for Atlanta and unani­mously won his fourth straight NL Cy Young on Monday. 

Johnson set a major league mark by averaging 12.35 .... strikeouts per nine innings, breaking Ryan's record of 

7p~~~:;,:~;~~~==s From$1ndianapo1Jis icago
4 & Ch9
• 
RJT Non-Stop Air1are 

• 
7 Nights Hotel Accom. 

• 
AfT Airport to Hotel Transfers 

• 
College Tours famous VIP Party Packag•: FREE cover charges, FREE parties, FREE food & drinks, EXCLUSIVE special events OVER $150 in savings! 


LOWEST PRICES· BEST HOTELS· BIGGEST PARTIES ORGANIZE A GROUP AND TRAVEL FREE/ 
c~LL COLLECiE TOURS 100~'{\ 800-)95-4896 
Pnct~t .,.r perton. plus tax•• Publie Chr1.rs VIII North-•t A1rlin.1 (A-320) Tour OperaiOr 1s Funqu.st Vacabon• Oelails in Op1Par1 Contract 

11.48 with Houston in 1987. He held AL hitters to a league-low .201 average, including .129 by left-banders. 
He averaged just 2.73 walks per nine innings -in 1992, he led the league in walks with 
6.16 per game. He also pitched the first complete game of his career without a walk, beating Cleveland while striking out 13 on July 7. 
Already the Mariners' career win and strikeout leader, he won the most important game in franchise history -up to that point -by beating Cali­fornia 9-1 with a three-hitter in a one-game playoff for the AL West title on Oct. 2. 
That win counted in the regu­
Please Recyclelar-season statistics, and made the Mariners 27-3 in games 
The Observer

started by their ace, the "Big Unit." 
\'es!f 
3ill .Aiba1-1ese is fil'1ally 
21f! 
We love you C\1'1d hope you have a fa1-1tastic dayI! 
Love, Mom, 3eff, C\1'1d the 
aa~-1 9 
Thinking ofdoing ayearofservice? How about doing it 
for alifetime? 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 631-6385 
mayor would not newspaper report. never said anything out eminent not now," he 
discussing a lot of e ideas that have impact both with the law and the 

t dtJnll'lin, mu-NFL.'• 
TIRED OF HUGE PHONE BILLS? 
NEVER ENOUGH CHANGE FOR THE PAY PHONE? 
ELIMINATE LONG DISTANCE HEADACHES WITH AN MCI PREPAID PHONE CARD. 
30 Minutes  $13.50  
60 Minutes  $27.00  
90 Minutes  $40.50  
120 Minutes  S54.00  

Send Check or Money Order To: Jaguar Enterprises 51087 Outer Drive South Bend, IN 46628 (219) 273-()293 
_. ____________ -~~~ -~-~~~~-~~J!Y_~~~<:i-»:i_t~i~-~~~~-~-~':"Y.?___ .__________ _ 
Name:

Addres~s~:-----------------------------------------11 
City: State:.__________ Zip: Phone:.____________________________ Cards@ S__= __ x 5% Sales Tax + Sub-Total= 
Directed by Reginald Bain 
Wednesday, November 15 8p.m. Thursday, November 16 8p.m. Friday, November 17 8p.m. Saturday, November 18 8p.m. Sunday, November 19 2:30p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall 

Reserved Seats $8 

Student and senior citizen discounts are available for all performances. Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. Masterl:ard and Visa Orders call631-8128 


-
-------~~---~----~---­
Wednesday, November 15, 1995 
The Observer • TODAY page 15 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 

Please Join Us And Give Up Smoking On November 16, 1995
Drink lots of liquids, but pa>s up coffee & alcohol. Tdl c:vc:ryonc: you'n: yuining Smoking Cessation Workshop -Thurs. 11/16
LEAVE THE PACK BEHIND 
for the: Jay. Jom the Gn:al American Smokeou1 on !he third When the urge to srnok.: hits, Student Health Center Room 300 4-5 p.m. Thursday of November Millions of ~mokers across !hc take: a Jeep hrt:ath, hold it for Call 631-7336 to register for workshop 
10 sc:conJs, & release it
wunlry will lake a break and try no! to smoke for Contact Len Hickman, Ph.D. University Counseling Center 
slowly.
24 hours. How ahoul you'! Or, if you don't smoke, adopl or Kelly Landry, Office of Alcohol and Drug Education for Information 
Exercise to rclicVt! the tt!nsion. 
a ~moker for the day ;tnd promise to help thai fricnd about the workshop or smoke cessation groups.
Try the "buddy ;ystc:m," and 
get through !he day wi!hlllll a cigarcue! 
a;k a friend to quit too. 
DAVE KELLEIT 


BILL WAITERSON 





CROSSWORD 


7 Tanks up 
28 "How was-­a Musical eights know?" 9 Breast-feed 27 Plunk preceder 10 Sports figure 28 Wrap up 
11 Saint honored 30 Cave-dwelling on September fish 30 31 Old Glory 
12 Tennis's 
feature Goolagong 33 Less cluttered 13 Tightening 34 Andrews sister muscle 36 Verbal defiance 21 Navy clerk 37 Nutrition abbr. B-:::-t=-t.:+.=-t 22 "Couldn't agree 38 (what an awful with you more" joke!) 
I 
AFEW 
AMERICAN 
~CANCER 
QUIT TIPS
~SOCIE1Y' 

Hide: all ashtrays, matchc:s, c:tc. 
Lay in a supply of sugarless 
gum, carrot sti~ks, c:tc. 
scorr ADAMS 

Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
,.--... -------------'-------., WICDNESDA Y, NOVEMBER 15, 199~ (For your personalized daily Jeane Dixon horoscope, based on your own date of 1:\irth. call 1-900-988-7788. Your phon<: company will bill you 99 
cents a minute.) 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: You win new accolades and earn a promotion. Rely heavily on your intuition where career and financial matters are concerned. Your special services and talents will be in greater demand early in 19%. Keep your passport up to date. Travel is favored next spring. Wonderful financial luck means more creature comforts. At work, show respect for othe~ viewpoints. A special friend­ship could culminate in marriage. Follow your heart. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: artist Georgia O'Keefe, actor Ed Asner, poet Mari­anne Moore, conductor Daniel Barenboim. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Remain flexible; others are counting on your versatility. Expect the unex­pected. A move to another city or state is possible. The value of your property will increase if you deco­rate or renovate. • 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Gracious words or acts will ben<:fit you in unanticipated ways. Discuss any financial problems with experts, then follow their advice. A chance meeting could lead to exciting busi­ness or social developments. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Being more tactful will ease a tense situation. Family members now have greater influence on the decisions you make. Meet deadlin<:s on time to protect your professional standing. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Work assignments grow more diffi­cult but rich rewards an: forthcoming. A clear focus will increase effiCiency and boost profits. A timely call moves you closer to realizing a dream. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Work could be strenuous today. Team­work may be difficult to achieve. At social events, you dazzle others with your wit and charm. Visits and trips 
•MENU 
Notre Dame 

North South .Turkey Grill Sandwich Chicken Strips Baked Sole Jardiniere Cajun·Baked Sole Irish Brown Potatoes Red Bliss Potatot's 
S~ntMary's 

Beef Cannaloni Three Cheese Omelette Rice 
• OF INTEREST 

~·Partially lnstlb.ttlonallzed Democracies" will be the Subject of a lecture by Guillermo O'Donnell, Academlc Director of the Kellogg Institute, to he held Thursday, November 16 at 12:15 p.m. in the Seminar JlOQm C.~ 103 of the Hesburgh Center. 
Women's Resource Center Speak-Out: The WRC will host its third annual Speak-Out, a celebra­tion of women in the arts at Notre Dame. It will be tQday from 8-10 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Come see ND artists like Emily Lord. There will be open mike from 9:45~10 p.m. 
14 Conceived in Rape" will be presented by Julie Makimaa tonight at7:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Ms. Makimaa is the founder of' Fortress International, an organization which supports women who become pregnant through rape. The lecture is sponsored by Feminists for Life. 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
wiJI be successful. Let your hair 
down this evening. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Pay more attention to the needs of your romantic partner and family. Help nip gossip in the bud by not repeat­ing it All forms of speculation and gambling should be avoided. Exer­cise self-discipline. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): A good day for bargain-hunting. Pay more attention to the advice of financial experts. Revising the fami­ly budget will relieve a temporary money crunch. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Attending weekend or evening classes could boost your earning power. Enlist family members' cooperation. A secret relationship needs can:ful nunuring. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Additional income is linked to your helping others. Telephone calls bring good luck. Any high-tech skills you possess can be put to good use. An influential person is impressed. Attend a social affair tonight. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Think about expanding your business or sphere of influence. A new relationship looks promising despite a rocky beginning. End a family squabble by playing the role of peacemaker. Get several bids if pondering home improvements. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Favorable trends enhance your image. The financial outlook will soon brighten. Keep a closer watch on everyday spending. Investigate the needs of someone who suddenly changes their pattc:m of behavior. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Steer clear of secret transactions proposed by friends. Although your neighbors may not be interested, community activities appeal to many. Take steps to alleviate a tttn­ager's worries. Romance keeps you guessing. Play a waiting game. 
-
• 
.. 

390gle 41 Biblical sage 42 Sell out 43 Pakistani city 44 Comments to 
the audience 45 Old Chrysler make 
48 Gilt of the Magi 50 Chick's cry 52 New Mexico art 
colony 53 Mare's hairs 54"0ies--" 55 Actress Naldi 56 Reverse, e.g. 

ACROSS 26 Candidate to 49 Mil. advisory like grp.
1 National park in 29 Seasonal songs 51 1987-91 TV
Alberta 31 Big name in 
drama6 "Reversal of sports cards 57 Symbol of Fortune" star 
school
32 1 ,000 percent 

11 Black shade 
punishment14 January in 
34 Wrong: Prefix 

58 Evocative smell Juarez 35 Number in a 59 Eagle's home
series ao "Chances--"
15 Alter a film 
36 Pulitzer novelist Oliver 16 Adam's madam 61 Dramatist Joe

11 Man of La Mancha 40 Winter quarters 
62 Dogie catcher 63 "By all means!"
18 Media worker's 41 Like some union billing periods 64 Cast light 19 Wood of the 42 Washington's 65 Asparagus unit Rolling Stones --House 20 Parlor game 45 The silent dwarf 
DOWN 23 Hide the gray, 46 Biographical 
1 Unsurpassed 
maybe datum 2 Freshly 
24 Tours summer 47Comfort 25 K-P interval 48 Pam Tillis's pop 3 Hawaiian goose 4 Piece of a palm 5 Gold rush 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE participant &Jordan neighbor 


-SPORTS 
page 16 Wednesday, November 15, 1995 

• BASEBALl 

Mainieri looks to fill holes with early signees 

• Forrn.sAu 

Stakes high for Irish 
By TIM SHERMAN 
Associate Spons Editor 
Some have labeled it "The Eight Million Dollar Game" while others are calling it "The Dawn of a New Era". 
Either way, Notre Dame's showdown with Air Force this Saturday has long-reaching ramifications. 
Most importantly, the Irish are faced with what amounts to a must-win situation if they have designs on playing in a major bowl. Not to be over­shadowed, though, is Notre Dame's first quarterback con­troversy this late in the season in recent memory. 
Throw in Notre Dame's struggles against the other ser­vice academies and prime-time ESPN and you have a great sto­ryline, not to mention the potential for a great game. 
"We have had some good games out there on Saturday night on ESPN," Holtz recalled. "Guys like Tim Brown and Tony Rice made some big plays for us out there." 
Holtz isn't really looking for the big plays from the quarter­back position, he's just looking for competence. 
"I just want someone in there who will lead the team and move the ball. I don't care how we do it. Each of them can do different things. Krug is stronger, Jarious is quicker. Jarious has a better arm, but Krug's is much more accurate." 
So, coach, who's it going to 

The Observer/Mike Ruma Tom Krug will start Saturday against Air Force, but freshman Jarious Jackson may play in a game that will determine the bowl picture. 
be? 

"We'll start with Tom Krug and go from there," Holtz ex­plained yesterday at his weekly press conference. "I wouldn't be surprised if Jackson got in there some though. But our quarterbacks will not be look­ing over their shoulder. They don't need to worry, I'll be do­ing that enough for everyone." 
While there are those who contend that the Irish shouldn't waste a year of Jackson's eligi­bility for at most two games, Holtz vehemently disagrees. 
"If we·'re struggling, I owe it to the seniors to do whatever it takes to win the football game," Holtz explained. "I just have to 
go with whoever can move the see FOOTBALL/ page 13 
ball." 
And for those who view Sat­urday's contest as a return to the glory days of option football and who are hoping to see the debut of "the next Tony Rice," Holtz did seem to have the Rice/Jackson comparisons on his mind. 
"The thing about Tony Rice was that he couldn't throw the football. He knew it. I knew it. But the fact was, he had the ability to move the ball. He made the right decisions." 
Holtz had similar thoughts on Jackson. ''I'm impressed with the nat­ural things he does. He's fast 
•••~D~JfSTRIPi+• 

·Poor recruiting could spell doom in Big East 
L~t:s be realiStic. No. current East teams are signing players .· rmdergraduate·.at Notre Dame ranked among the top 20 and 
vvill ~xperience a. Big East 30. 
cha.~plonship in men's bas-Eastern Basketball describes 
ketbalt. A top four finish Palmer as someone ,with below 
woUld be a miracle. average athleticism, and that 
Ql,lite obviously the Irish's tal-he has trouble finishing against 
ent level is no where near .more athletic players. Defi-
G e o r g e t o w<n • nitely not the type of 
CoiUletticut, Villanova player that will make 
or eyen Pittsburgh. you more competitive 
Even other Midwest in the Big East. 
Catholic universities The only player of 
such as Marquette, worth interested in 
DeJ,>~:~-ui and St, Louis the Irish was 7.o 
are netting better tal-Jason Collier of 
ent. • Catholic Central, Ohio. 
.. 'foday,·this frustrating After his campus visit, 
tren;d of sub~par talent . the Irish mysteriously 
continues · ;:t.s the Ednor disappeared from his 
Novemb~r8~15 ..early signing list. A disturbing trend among 
periQd for }JigJrschool· seniors .the more· talented high school 
cpmes)P a close~. This signing players this season. 
period is the bread and butter What about this year's class? 
of Universities with higher aca-They definitely have the most 
demic standards. This is when• talent in years, but they are 
schools likeNotre Dame and still considered by many to be 
Duke are supposed to sign among the bottom half of 
their players, recruiting classes in the Big 
The majority of the players East this season. 
with the necessary grades sign This wasn't supposed to be. 
within this ·period.. Those still Digger Phelps was pushed out 
waiting for the passing ACT after recruiting the Ross twins, 
and SAT scores wait until the and John MacLeod was 
spring. These are normally the instructed to return the Irish to 
type of stude:{lt~athletes that the NCAA final four. 
Notre Dame admissions will MacLeod said we needed the 
notaccept. Big East, which we do. Yet, 
With three scholarships to of~ even with the Big East, NBC 
fer the Irish signed only one and Mary on our resume, the 
player~ Todd Palmer. While players aren't coming. 
thE) 6~8. 215 pound forward is Maybe it's too early to judge, 
con~idered a potential top 100 or maybe Notre Dame only has ·· player by analysts, other Big enough room for football. 
By MEGAN McGRATH 
Sports Writer 
With snow on the ground, a chill in the air and the bowl game approaching, the summer game of baseball is probably the last thing from anyone's mind. 
Anyone, that is, except Paul Mainieri and the Notre Dame baseball coaching staff. With the early signing period for National Letters of Intent,

• 
• 
Mainieri and his crew have been hard at work convincing prep stars to commit to the Irish. 
Monday, the team announced the signing of six high school seniors to National Letters of Intent. 
The Irish will look to add to a squad that went 40-21 last year, and missed NCAA post­season play for the first time in four years. They will also look to find someone to provide power, after leading home run hitter Ryan Topham was draft­ed by the Chicago White Sox after last season and fill the hole left by the graduation of lead-off hitter Craig DeSensi 
At the head of the class of 2000 is A.J. Zapp of Green­wood, Indiana. Zapp hit .388 with four home runs and 23 runs batted in for Center Grove High School as a three-year starter. He was selected to play for the Indiana Bulls select 








