
~·----~ -------~-----­

Tuesday, November 7, 1995 • Vol. XXVII No. 51 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

The ObserveriBrian Hardy 
The expansion and renovation of Notre Dame Stadium be:gan yesterday as. workers re'!loved the limestone blocks on the top of the stadium walls, and cut down trees 1n the lot surroundmg the stad1um. 
• EtEcnow ~95 
• NEWS ANAlYSiS 
Candidates make last day push 
Editor's Note: In an effort to help inform the student body about their community. The Observer is presenting the third ofan occasional series of updates on the South Bend city mayoral election. The election is being held today. 
By JAMIE HEISLER Assistant News Ediwr 
As polls open this morning at 6 a.m.. voters are faced with the choice between Democratic incumbent Joseph Kernan, who is seeking his thif'd term as mayor. and Hepublican challenger Michael Waite, a businessman from South Bend. 
Waite. who ran for mayor in 1987. is hoping to unseat Ker­nan but has faced several roadblocks during his cam­paign including an arrest for unpaid bills. a lawsuit for back child support, and the with­drawal of backing by the Re­publican party. 
In last minute efforts to sway voters, mayoral candidates Kernan and Waite held news conferences Sunday night, campaigning on vastly differ­ent issues. 
While Democratic incumbent Kernan chose to focus on the unrealized cost of privatization for South Bend. Republican candidate Waite criticized Ker­nan for his supposed indiffer­ence to the planm~d construc­tion of an adult bookstore on 
see ELECT I 0 N I page 4 

Ground-breaking kicks off expansion 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST Associate News Editor 
After Lou Holtz joined other University officials in shovel­ing out a strip of grass outside Notre Dame Stadium during yesterday's official ground­breaking ceremonies for the stadium's expansion, the Irish head football coach paused for a moment. 
"Well, I guess my Kent State education finally came in handy," he said, smiling to on­leokers. 
Holtz, a 1959 graduate of Kent State, will leave construction duties to the workers of Casteel Construction Corporation dur­ing the rest of the 21-month­long expansion project, but he didn't leave the ceremony yes­terday without getting a little nostalgic. 
"I've been coaching here for 10 years now, and I've had a lot of great memories in that time," Holtz said. "I can only imagine the memories that other people have had going into the stadium for 40, 50 years." 
The expansion of the stadi-

Peace still alive after Rabin's death 
By JOHN LUCAS Ediror-in-Chief 
Even as world leaders con­vened in Jerusalem Monday to mourn the assassination of Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak 
Rabin, sev­eral Notre Dame pro­fessors expressed hope that dreams of Middle East 
peace were 
not buried 


along with his simple pine coffin. 
"The feeling of the Israeli public is a wave of anger and rage," said Alan Dowty, profes­sor of government and fellow at the Kroc Institute. "But those feelings will renew the determination of supporters of the peace process, and stigma­tize the far right wing. But it is much too late to upset the pro­cess-two years ago, Saturday's events would have had a definite impact, but not today." 
"Lunatics are out of touch with reality," he said. "Sometimes it's not surprising that they have the opposite ef­fect than they intended." 
Rabin was gunned down Saturday as he walked to his car following a pro-peace rally held in central Tel Aviv. A 27­year-old law student with ties to the Jewish extremist move­ments is being held in connec­tion with the shooting. 
Several professors hailed Rabin as a man of vision who gradually transformed himself between the roles of soldier. 
diplomat, politician and finally peacemaker. 
"He was a political combina­tion that was irreplaceable." said Father Patrick Gaffney, professor of anthropology and fellow at the Kroc Institute. "His package of gifts translated into credibility among the Israeli people. It can't be as­sumed that anyone else will be able to do that." 
Father David Burrell, a phi­losophy professor and fellow at the Kroc Institute said that Rabin may have best defined himself by the simple speech he made on the White House lawn before the signing of an agreement between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization. 
"He stood up and quoted Ecclesiastes-the verses talk­ing about a time for war and a time for peace," Burrell said. "That's what he saw. It wasn't ideological-he was just standing up, saying that this is the time for peace. And he wasn't always a peace maker-far from it. After all, he gave the famous order to have Palestinian bones broken during the Intifada." 
Now, Rabin's successor and one-time rival, Shimon Peres, may have the benefit of a pro­longed period of support from a sympathetic and unified Israeli public. During this time, he will undertake the dif­ficult task of implementing the intermediate phases of the Oslo Agreement which give limited West Bank autonomy to the PLO. 
Peres has been characterized 
see RABIN I page 4 

World leaders gather to mourn 
By GWEN ACKERMAN Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 

Yitzhak Rabin was laid to rest today at a remarkable gathering of world leaders who saluted the slain prime minister's unwavering courage in war and peace. 
His tearful granddaughter, in a moving eulogy, spoke of the pain of losing her "private hero." 
Rabin, who led Israel to tri­umphs on the battlefield, then stretched out a hand of peace to his Arab neighbors, was buried with full military hon­ors in a pine glade atop a hill overlooking the volatile city where he was born 73 years ago. 
His funeral brought to Israel not only leaders of the West with close ties to the Jewish state, but also heads of state from the Arab world, testi­mony that Rabin's three years of peacemaking have changed the Middle East. 
Shimon Peres picked up the burden of governing the shocked and saddened nation after the Rabin was shot Saturday by a right-wing Israeli who opposed Rabin's concessions to Palestinians on the West Bank. 
Peres looked over the crowd of dignitaries and mourners from around the world, and said: "This is the crowning glory of your efforts, all of us here together. 
urn, which opened in 1930, is expected to be completed in time for the home opener against Georgia Tech on September 6,1997. The expanded facility will hold 80,990 spectators, an increase of 22,915. 
"The expansion gives more people an opportunity not just to see Notre Dame football, but an opportunity to see Notre Dame," Holtz said. "I feel confident there will be many more great memories in the new stadium." 
The latest chapter in the his­tory of the facility was closed on Saturday, when the Irish defeated Navy. 35-17. Interestingly, at the official dedication of the stadium's opening on October 4, 1930, Notre Dame's opponent was also Navy. That day, the Irish downed the Midshipmen by a 26-2 score. 
Workers began the project yesterday by removing lime­stone blocks from the top of the existing stadium walls and cutting down trees in the parking lot surrounding the 
see STADIUM/ page 4 


Yitzhak Rabin 

1922·1995 
1922: Born March 1, in Jerusalem. 
1948: Commands the Harel Brigades that defended Jerusalem against Arab ~~ps in the Middle East war. ___ 
1963-1968: Serves as army chief of staff. 
1969-1972: Serves as Israel's ambassador to Washington. 
1974: Israel's ruling Labor Party 
designates Rabin to succeed Prime 
Minister Golda Meir. 
1977: Rabin resigns as Prime Minister over his wife Leah's illegal U.S. bank account. 
1984-1990: Serves as defense 
minister in the Labor·Likud coalition 
governments. 
------.. . -------------------. --­
1992: Wins election for a second term as Prime Minister. 
1995: Prime Minister Rabin is shot 
and killed as he leaves apro·peace 
rally in Tel Aviv. 
AP 

"The man who murdered you will not be able to murder the idea that you carried," Peres said. "You left us a road that we will follow. 
"I see our Arab neighbors and I want to tell them that peace is attainable both here and with you," he said. 
Tuesday, November 7, 1995
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 
• INSIDE COLUMN 



The professor to student link 
I like getting the most out of my liberal arts edu­cation. 
I like taking a wide vari­ety of courses, whether it be accounting, interna­tional relations or cre­ative writing. And I like getting to know a wide 

variety of professors. Krista Nannery 
If there's one thing I've Accent Editor learned over the years, it -------­is that different professors have different teaching styles. Some good, some so-so. Some just plain bad. 
It's not always the professor's fault, of course. As students, we're not always the most captive of audiences. In the confusion of 15 to 18 credits, seminar papers, labs and group projects, it's easy to fall behind (or even worse, fall asleep). There are days when even the most interesting professors can elicit yawns from thBir classrooms. 
We don't always mean to do this. Really, we don't. 
But help us out on this one, please. Know our names, rrrst and last. Say "hi" to us on the quads. Maybe stop and ask us how our day has been. Hang out in Waddick's or LaFortune and wait for one of us to walk by. Buy us a coke. Let us buy you a coke. Invite us to your homes for donuts and coffee. Throw candy at us during class. Bring in pic­tures of your dog. Let us out early some day. Have class outside. Encourage class bonding sessions. 
The possibilities are endless. 
Granted, I'm 21 years old and I'm asking my professors to throw candy at me. There's more to it than that, though. In reality, I'm only asking that professors and teaching assistants do their best to make their lectures interesting and informative. Take an interest in your students as people. The more interac­tion you have with us, the better we do. We really don't want to let you down. That's especially true when we know you well. 
As students, we should be people whom 
professors take a vested interest in, on more 
than just a mid-term/final, one semester 
basis. If we're bored in class, it's not just the 
fault of the teacher. Maybe it's time we said 
something. Maybe it's time we called up a 
professor randomly and asked them out to 
lunch. Maybe we should be taking advantage 
of office hours. There's got to be some other 
use for them besides getting grades changed. 
Perhaps what we need is an area where 
faculty and students can interact outside the 
confines of a classroom environment. I mean 
socially. Face it, Decio belongs to the Ph.D.s. 
DeBartolo is just one big classroom, awash in 
fluorescent lighting and swimming in its own 
technological advancements. LaFortune, the 
dorms and the dining halls belong mainly to 
the students. Every so often, you might see a 
T.A. or two in LaFortune, but the instances are few and far between. The only place left for comfortable, non-stressful teacher-student interaction is The Oak Room, and when was the last time you met a professor there? 
A classroom has many uses and lecturing is definitely one of them. But how about some spice and variety every once in a while? It doesn't matter where it comes from-stu­dents or teachers-as long as it just occurs. Maybe it's wrong to want some fun and excitement alongside my term papers and reading assignments, but I seriously think it's to the benefit of all. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Viewpoint  
Amy Schmidt  Marty Dickinson  
Deborah Schultz  Victoria Pratte  
Sports  Production  
Megan McGrath  Tara Grieshop  
Graphics  Jackie Moser  
Tom Roland  Accent  
Lab Tech  Ashleigh Thompson  
Michael Hungeling  Melinda Cragan  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WORlO AT AGLANCE 
Walesa, Kwasniewski to meet in Poland's Presidential runoff 
movement, between Walesa's experi­
WARSAW, Poland .-!4-------~---------, 
President Lech Walesa has two weeks I i -c:-:::------....... ence and Kwasniewski's dynamism. to rally the forces that helped him over-· ,\,~. ·· -~<' "Apparently voters did not want to throw Communist rule -or he'll have 
., ·-"-·. experiment and disperse their votes." to surrender his office to a skilled young 
Fikus wrote in an editorial. politician with a Communist past. 
Kwasniewski, leader of the reconsti­Walesa and Aleksander Kwasniewski 
tuted communists, immediately began each captured about one-third of the 
trying to woo supporters of the Soli­
Unofficial final results from Sunday's 
darity-rooted centrists who were elimi­
vote in Poland's second democratic 
presidential voting in Poland. 
nated in Sunday's first round. runoff on Nov. 19. 
presidential election Sunday, forcing a Percentage 
"I have proved many times that I am The PAP news agency, citing prelimi­
Aleksander Kwasniewski 35.11 interested in building democracy," nary results from 40 of 49 provinces 
Lech Walesa 33.11 Kwasniewski, 41, told The Associated today, said Kwasniewski collected 36.5 
Jacek Kuron 9.22 Press. Walesa is expected to gain the Jan Olszewski 6.86 b k" f F d u · h ·
percent of the vote against Walesa's 
Waldemar Pawlak 4_ ac mg o ree om mon, t e centrist
31

32.2 percent. Official results were not Tadeusz Zielinski party behind Jacek Kuron. who won 8.6
3.53

due until Tuesday. The outcome 
Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz 2.76 percent of the vote. A former Solidarityshowed that six years after toppling of 
~; 

Janusz Korwin-Mikke 2.40 adviser. Kuron spent nine years in the Communist regime in 1989, Poles 
-1: Andrzej Lepper 1.32 Communist jails. are still divided into two separate 
I; Jan Pietrzak 1.12 Today he was endorsed by three for-camps, political analysts said today. 
ll Tadeusz Kozluk .15 mer prime ministers and two former Dariusz Pikus, editor-in-chief of the 
' Kazimierz Piotrowicz .07 foreign ministers. The five are among Rzeczpospolita newspaper, said Poles 
Ii Leszek Bubel .04 the best-known Polish politicians at were choosing between the left linked to 
fi 

Turnout was 18,230,218, or home and abroad and have made major former Communists and the political 
" 64.79 percent of eligible voters. contributions to the country's post-groups that grew out of the Solidarity AP Communist democratic development. 
Hart decides to withdraw from race 
DENVER 
Gary Hart says he has decided not to run for the U.S. 
Senate, fellow Democratic hopefuls who met with him to­
day said. Hart announced months ago that he was inter­
ested in running for the Senate, where he served from 
1975 to 1987. He made unsuccessful bids for the Demo­
cratic presidential nomination in 1984 and 1988, when 
his campaign was scuttled by his rumored affair with 
model Donna Rice. Five other potential nominees at­
tended a breakfast meeting today with Hart. Hart did not 
immediately respond to telephone calls about the hour­
long meeting, but two of the hopefuls said afterward that 
Hart told them he wouldn't run and offered them some 
tips on campaigning. "He gave us sound advice on what 
we were getting into," said hopeful Phil Perington, a 
Denver lawyer. Perington is among at least seven 
Democrats who have indicated some interest in running 
for the Senate seat being vacated by Republican Hank 
Brown, who announced he was not seeking a second 
term in 1996. Two of those seven did not go to the meet­
ing today with Hart. 
Man sentenced to death for murder 
FORT WORTH, Texas 
A man was sentenced to death Monday for kidnapping 
a 16-year-old girl, beating her with a shovel and burying 
her alive in a slaying prosecutors said was retribution for 
a drug ripoff by her brothers. Orlando Hall, 24, of El Do­
rado, Ark.• was convicted in one of the first cases to be 
brought under the 1994 Crime Bill. The law added kid­
napping resulting in death to the list of federal crimes 
punishable by death. He also could have received a life 
sentence with no parole. Hall was one of five men 
charged with kidnapping and killing Lisa Rene. who was 
raped over two days and buried in a shallow grave in 
Pine Bluff, Ark. She was dragged from her Arlington 
home in 1994. In a chilling plea captured on tape, Miss 
Rene screamed in terror and begged a 911 operator for 
help as men claiming to be FBI agents broke into her 
apartment. Hall was convicted Tuesday. Three co-defen­
dants pleaded guilty and testified against him in 
exchange for leniency when they are sentenced. The fifth 
man, Bruce Webster, 22, of Pine Bluff, goes on trial 
March 4. The men had gone to the apartment in search 
of the girl's two brothers, whom they had paid $5,000 for 
marijuana that wasn't delivered. When the brothers 
weren't there, they took Miss Rene. 
Barbie Hall of Fame facing eviction 
PALO ALTO, Calif. 
Barbie has been a glamour girl, stewardess, business­woman, astronaut and even royalty. Soon, she may be homeless. The Barbie Doll Hall of Fame, which boasts more than 20,000 exhibits, is being evicted so the new owner of its building can open a restaurant. "It's a sob story you hear a lot today, but if we're forced out of here, we have no place to go but the street," said Evelyn Burkhalter. who owns the museum. Burkhalter is fight­ing an eviction lawsuit filed by her new landlord, restau­rateur Rowena Wu, who didn't return a telephone call for comment. Wu claims the museum breached its lease by not providing adequate insurance for the $2.5 million collection. Burkhalter said a waiver releasing the owner of liability was part of the lease with the previous land­lord. and Wu assumed that lease. The Barbie Doll Hall of Fame has moved three times over the years. each time to larger quarters to accommodate Burkhalter's collection, believed to be the world's largest. Burkhalter, a long­time doll collector. started the museum 11 years ago in Palo Alto, about 30 miles south of San Francisco. 
Causes of Alzheimer found in gene 
DURHAM, N.C. 
The discoverer of a genetic trait linked to Alzheimer's says he has now figured out how the trait causes the dis­ease -by weakening the microscopic "plumbing" that carries nutrients to brain cells and flushes out the waste. The new understanding offers numerous possibilities for the development of drugs that might not "cure" the dis­ease but could delay it for 20 years, meaning most people would not live long enough to get it, said Dr. Allen Roses, chairman of the neurology department at Duke University Medical Center. Speaking at a meeting spon­sored by the Council for the Advancement of Science Writing, Roses also reported that people with the Alzheimer's gene are more likely than others to die after a head injury, because of the weakened condition of their neurons. or nerve cells. The gene produces a substance called apolipoprotein E4, or apo E4, which shuttles cho­lesterol through the bloodstream. Roses's belief that apo E4 is critical in Alzheimer's puts him at odds with some other leading authorities. "No one disputes that E4 is important. E4 is a risk factor, not the cause," said Dr. Dennis Selkoe, a neurologist at Harvard Medical School. Selkoe believes that E4 somehow changes the form of a substance called amyloid in the brain. 

• INDIANA WEATHER 
Thesday, Nov. 7 AccuWeather<» forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather~R>forecast for noon, Tuesday, Nov. 7. 
40s 


.,............ ..&....L ~ 


~MICH. 

OHIO 
llndianapoli3 49° I 
ILL 
• 


COLD WARM STATIOIIIAHY C 1995 AccuWeather. tnc. 
tii B 6S1 [n] 0 ~ E3 1:) !:J. cC::} 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUOY 
4,~,~~~~ (f ~ ~ 
Showers T·storms Rain Flurries Snow ICB Sunny Pr. Cloudy Cloudy Vis Assoasfll<1 p,..,ss Grsp~Ves/WJ! C 1995 AccuWealher. tnc 
Atlanta 56 52 Dallas 72 55 New Orleans 79 68 BaHimore 61 43 Denver 52 28 New York 57 43 Boston 59 43 Los Angeles 85 58 Philadelphia 60 44 Chicago 45 39 Miami 85 72 Phoentx 82 57 Columbus 53 47 Minneapolis 44 37 St. Louis 57 45 
----------------------------------------------~ -------~-------­
• RESIDENCE HALL ASSOCIATION 

New SURV leaders
Service named key goal for SMC 
support involvement
By HEATHER CROSS than just raising money for the donated a bus to transport the 


News Writer 
Saint Mary's Residence Hall Association (RHA) proved once again that service is an impor­tant part of life at the college. At last night's meeting, hall council members discussed how they plan to serve the commu­nity and those in need during the upcoming holiday season. 
The RHA's publicity commit­tee came up with a plan to pro­vide a discount on t-shirts to those students who donate non­perishable food items. The do­nations will be given to a local food pantry or soup kitchen. The food will be used for either the Thanksgiving or Christmas holidays, depending on the ar­rival date of the shirts. Accord­ing to Chairwoman Patty Cor­bitt, "We want to make an im­pact on the community, rather school." 
Holy Cross Hall is once again searching for a way to show their community spirit and Saint Mary's pride. Last year, the hall sponsored a family in which the father was an AIDS patient. Each section competed to collect the most amount of money, which was given to the family for the purchase of Thanksgiving dinner and Christmas gifts. 
But the holiday tradition con­tinues beyond Thanksgiving and Christmas. Last Week, the LeMans Hall Council organized a Halloween event for local children. Forty kids roamed the halls of LeMans, scaring the residents into giving them a tremendous amount of treats. The Shaheen bookstore do­nated Trick-or-Treat bags, while the United Limo Service 
University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 

INNSBRUCK, AUSTRIA 
INFORMATION MEETING "Student Life in Innsbruck" With Professor Marie -Antoinette Kremet 
Wednesday November 8, 1995 4:30pm 114 O'Shaughnessy 
Returning students will be on hand to answer questions. 
PLAn YOUR FUTURE WITH BUSinESS DATA SERVICES lntormauon session, nou. 7, &:30 p.m. 
Business Data Services, Inc. (BDS) is a leading client/server systems development firm looking for top quality students to join our team in any of our four office locations in Connecticut, Illinois, New York or Virginia. 
goals and goblins to and from campus. 
Regina Hall has decided to center their service around monthly visits to the YWCA. Their service visits begin later this month. The hall council's holiday service project will be the opportunity for each resi­dent to purchase a gift for a needy family. The name of the gift will be attached to a bal­loon, and each resident will be able to chose from the bunch of colorful balloons in the front lobby. 
The RHA invites all residents to take advantage of the many service opportunities offered on campus. 
In other RHA news, the 10:00 dance rule and the alcohol is­sues surrounding dances are still being addressed by the council. 
The next meeting of the Saint Mary's RHA will be next Mon­day at 9:15 p.m. on the third floor of Haggar. 

By MAUREEN HURLEY Saint Mary's News Editor 
After a slump in activity, Nicole Hoevet and Robin Walsh take the helm of Spes Unica Re­source and Volunteer Center (SURV), steering the service­based organization in a new di­rection. 
SURV, a student-run service office that works in conjunction with Notre Dame's Center for Social Concerns, attempts to "initiate students in the habits of civic responsibility" that Saint Mary's College specifies in its mission statement. 
Students have criticized SURV's role on campus, citing few major service projects. According to this year's co-di­rectors, Hoevet and Walsh, the staff is working to increase visi­bility on campus, along with student involvement. 
Major goals include "getting more students involved and 
---------------------------~ 
Clitnese • American· Restaurant &
GR£AT 
Cockt1lil Lounge '-.uthentic Szechuan, 
\VALL 
Mandarin & Hunan Cuisir.= 
Bar & Restaurant open 7 days a week 
Lunches starting at ..... $4.25 Dinners starting at ..... $5.95 Banquet rooms available for up to 200 
130 Dixie Way N., South Bend 
(next to RIJi:iall's Inn ) 


BDS provides a comprehensive training prografn. We offer the opportunity to work in the latest and most exciting tools and technologies; UNIX, Windows NT, PowerBuilder, Visual Basic, C/C++, TCP/IP, Oracle, Sybase, 
I nformix, etc.  You will be working along side the best technical talent in the  
industry.  
If you are self-motivated person, looking for an  
exciting challenge .as a Programmer/Analyst and  

graduating with Computer Science, MIS or related degrees, Information Session, Nov. 7 at 6:30 p.m. in the Main Lounge, University Club. On-campus interviews will be held on November 10 
BDS 

---~.--­
Business Data Services 


Corporate Address 78 Eastern Bou~vard, Glastonbury, CT 06033 
getting more people aware of the organization," according to Hoevet. She said the criticisms stem from the fact that stu­dents don't realize "we're a very small organizatio, that serves as a referral service." 
"We don't have a paid staff, or the vehicles or means to get people places," Hoevet said. "We don't have enough people to do what the students think we should be doing." 
SURV is expanding, however, by working with Campus Ministry and gaining the guid­ance of faculty adviser Sister Bettina Ferraro. 
Both Hoevet and Walsh stress that the current staff, consist­ing of five members, is not sufficient to meet the group's goals of expansion. Anyone interested in working with SURV is encouraged to attend their meetings, which take place every Thursday at 4:15 
p.m. in room 250 Haggar. 
Have something to say? Use The Observer classifieds. 

Pa1iicipanls mud 6e a nD/SmC dudenl. OnliJ llal U~C~rlzs wilt 6e accepled (cbawings, design, pht~#tJgraphiJ, ptzinlings} wi#h o mtz:cimum si~e e~l3.:c3•. 
1he exhi&il wilt 6e sht~wn in lhe St~rin Rt~t~m al la1t~rlune Sludenl Cenler nwem6er 73-7?. 
1'urchtzse pri~es, dtzrling al $200, will 6e awaffled. 
-ApplicaliiiiU ate auaila&le ""'" ;, lhe Sludenl AdiuilieJ 01/ite 315.£a1tJtiUIII. 
Sptcial1hall«s I. ih• Alu11111i Au•ciali•,.. 
'"' Slfill mus1Miff.GIIt1 "" SINt1111l Adi~tiliu Ollie• lt~t lhtir tuntalitltfl I. Hr1 p1mha11 pr~1 awards. 



Tuesday, November 7, 1995
page 4 The Observer • NEWS 


Rabin 
continued from page 1 
as visionary liberal who helped design much of Rabin's peace plan. But he has been criti­cized both for a lack of charis­ma and for his over-willingness to compromise on Israeli secu­rity issues with the Syrians and Palestinians. 
"He clearly doesn't want for ideas," Burrell said. "In fact, he's a visionary. but without enough practicality." 
Even if Peres benefits from a groundswell of support for Rabin's goals, it remains un­clear if it will last for months, weeks, or only until the next bus explodes in Jerusalem or Tel Aviv. 
''I'm sure there will be a moment of outpouring, even an emotive interlude," said Gaffney. "But it won't last very long. In fact, I'd say the long range outlook is not good." 
The perception of Peres' weaker stature combined with the strong beliefs of conserva­tive Likud party members may pull the momentum away from the Labor party to the more se-

Stadium 
continued from page 1 
structure. Clearing the site in preparation for expanding the stadium is expected to last into mid-December. 
Utility lines are expected to be installed in the next few weeks, and concrete founda­tion work is slated to begin later in November. 
Joining Holtz at yesterday's ceremony were Father William Beauchamp. executive vice­president of the University; Mike Wadsworth, athletic director; Chuck Lennon, exec­utive director of the Notre Dame Alumni Association; Jonathan Patrick, student body president; and Dennis McCarthy, student body presi­dent. 
curity conscious Likud. 

"Peres has been stigmatized by Likud as a career politician and a weak opportunist," Gaffney said. "It just can't be expected that this process is going to get any easier. I don't think Likud is going to give an inch. These are hard-bitten people who believe in their ideas with a lot of for:ce." 
Technically, the peace pro­cess itself can not be completely reversed by members of Likud because the larger agreements negotiated by Rabin, including those dealing with West Bank autonomy, are binding. But Gaffney explained that right wingers, led by opposition leader Benyamin Natanyahu, could easily halt the process by defeating Peres' new coalition in the house of parliament, the Knesset. 
"My heart is there with Rabin's vision of a new turn, but realistically, it looks like the process is going to stall," he said. "The right was and still is very wary and they are going to exert pressure to halt it." 
But not everyone accepts that vision of the future. Burrell suggested that the Israeli Likud could face a backlash because of the actions of one extremist. 
"The right wing will be abso­lutely silenced," Burrell said. "They won't dare raise their voice after this." 
"Likud's preoccupation with security was old language," he said. "They pander to people's fears, while Labor built up their aspirations. Now the mood will shift in that direction." 
Yasser Arafat and the PLO will not likely be affected by the change between Rabin and Peres, Dowty said. Although Peres may have a different per­sonality and style, it should not hamper his ability to work with the PLO leader. 
"Initially there was a lot of concern among Palestinians that this would disrupt the pro­cess, but they didn't understand how the system works," Dowty said. "There's a lot of continu­ity there, and its likely the process will be solidified because it was a Jewish killer, rather than a Palestinian or an Arab." 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad 
Happy Birthday 







Michael 
Hoody! 
All my love, Dorie 
Election 
continued from page 1 
South Main Street. 

In recent months, South Bend Republicans have been advocating a privatization for South Bend to be modeled after the Indianapolis government, but according to Kernan the cost of this course of action would be far greater than Re­publicans have claimed. 
Citing the costs of several public service costs in both cities, Kernan stated that privatizatio-n has not been as beneficial for Indianapolis as claimed. He believes that while South Bend has found privatization profitable in some areas, the "wholesale auction of the city's assets" which occurred in Indianapolis would not necessarily benefit South Bend. 
In Waite's news conference, he coupled his criticism of Ker­nan for inaction in the planned construction of an adult book­store with the criticism that Kernan should give more focus to inadequacies in schools. 
"Mayor Joe Kernan would rather subsidize porno books than school books," stated Waite. Waite has focused criti­cism on Kernan throughout his campaign for Kernan's position on topics including crime and the proposed new hockey sta­dium. 
Candidates will be campaign­ing throughout the day until the polls close tonight at 6 p.m. 
The South Bend Tribune con­tributed to this article. 

The Saint Mary's College 
Department ofMusic 
cordially invites you to 

the twenty-third annual 


Madrigal Dinners 
Friday, Saturday and Sunday, December first, second and third at seven each evening Regina Hall 

~J>~ 
The E & J Gallo ~Vinery 
Management Development Program 
An accelerated program designed to provide in-depth knowledge ofsales and marketing management. Participants achieve assignments in areas such as: 
• 
Field Marketing Management -(Winery field consultants responsible for developing sales and marketing strategies) 

• 
National AccoWlt Management -(Senior sales specialists responsible for maximizing the sales of Winery products through national retail chains) 

• 
Sales Management & General Management -(Management professionals responsible for the overall operation ofdistributor sales organizations) 


.. .just to name a few 
Please accept our invitation to attend an infonnational presentation. We will 
further explain the Management Development Program and answer any 
questions that you may have. 
The presentation details: 
Date: November 7, 1995 
Time: 6:30 pm 
Location: Morris Inn, Notre Dame Room 
Attire: Casual 
All majors welcome Sponsored by The Notre Dame Marketing Club 
----------------------------------------~~~------­
FDA told to approve AIDS drug 
The Observer/ Brain Hardy 
They swear it's real 
The World Wrestling Federation brought its travelling circus to the Joyce Center last night. After a heated match, former champion Bob Backlund celebrates his "victory" over Marty Genetti. 

By LAURAN NEERGAARD 
Associated Press 

SILVER SPRING, Md. 
The drug 3TC should be ap­proved as the first new initial therapy to treat AIDS since the original AIDS drug AZT, scien­tific advisers told the Food and Drug Administration on Mon­day. 
A combination of 3TC and AZT boosted the immune sys­tem of patients and lowered the amount of the HIV virus, which causes AIDS, in their blood. 
But more significantly, the drug combination showed more effect in patients who had never taken AZT than in those who have taken AZT alone, as is standard for most patients, manufacturer Glaxo Wellcome said. 
The FDA advisers agreed, although they cautioned there are a lot of unanswered ques­tioned that patients must be aware of before choosing to try the combination therapy over AZT alone. 
"I am very uncomfortable giving this regimen in a wide­spread way" because of all the questions, said Dr. Douglas Mayers of Walter Reed Army Institute of Research in Wash-
Put Gallo To The Test.... 
0 Accelerated path to a career in Sales Marketing Management. 
0 Outstanding Consumer Products Sales Training. 
0Industry Leadership. 
Check out the E. & J. GaJlo Winery's Sales Managen1ent Progratn. Interested Juniors & Seniors shou.ld attend our: 

Informational Session 
Morris Inn ... Notre Dame Room Tuesday, November 7, 1995 6:30PM 
Dress is Casual 
E. & J. Gallo Winery Sales Management Program 
ington. 
Early data "support the ar­gument for initial aggressive therapy," said Glaxo research chief Marc Rubin. "3TC-AZT was consistently associated with greater and more sus­tained response." 
The experimental drug is in the same family as AZT, the standard therapy. These drugs work by blocking a protein vital in the early reproduction phase ofHIV. 
But patients develop resis­tance to AZT's effect rapidly. Early data indicate that adding 3TC to AZT postpones that re­sistance -and in some patients might even restore their AZT sensitivity, Glaxo said. 
Tests of several hundred pa­tients show the combination boosts the level of vital immune cells called CD4. It also reduces the amount of HIV in the blood by 85 percent to 92 percent, a drop that lasts at least six months, Glaxo said. 
The panel agreed that this early data was sufficient to ap­prove 3TC for moderately to advanced AIDS patients as well as offering it as an initial ther­apy. 
The advisers also recom­


mended that the FDA allow Glaxo to sell strawberry-ba­nana-flavored drops of the drug for children, although there was little if any evidence that the children experienced a ben­efit like that seen in adults. 
Despite the lack of evidence, doctors argued that children shouldn't be denied the poten­tial that the therapy works. 
'We have to realize the op­tions for kids are quite limited," said Dr. Scott Hammer of New England Deaconess Hospital in Boston. 
But the committee cautioned that the drug must carry a warning that it may cause dan­gerous pancreatitis in children -a 14 percent incidence in one study. 
The FDA is not obliged to ac­cept the recommendations of advisory panels, but it usually does. 
In adults, 3TC does not ap­pear to cause any more side effects than AZT alone. But the panel stressed that 3TC should not be used alone. 
Glaxo is seeking approval un­der a special FDA program that allows drugs for fatal diseases to undergo less rigorous testing than usually required. And Glaxo wants to sell 3TC not only to obviously sick people in later stages of AIDS but also to healthier people infected by HIV. 
The committee was unable to decide at what point patients should start taking the 3TC­AZT combination. 
AIDS activists support the drug but urge caution in its use. 
Some criticized the company for not conducting tests to see if 3TC works equally well in both early and advanced patients ­or the best time to start taking it. 

Company of Molin~. Ill. · Beginning as a sales engi~ neer in Boston, heA has worked in Chicago, •. Miami, and Fort Wayn~ •. Ind., before assuming his most recent position as senior sales manager in Montgomery Elevator's Chicago office. .. 
Doyle will assist Chuck·. Schnur. regional director of development, in the fund· raising efforts in Illinois, Iowa, Missouri, Kansas, and Arkansas. 
Spring Break 1996 TRAVEL FREE!! 
Jamaica. Cancun. Bahamas Panama City. Daytona. Padre 
**Great low, low prices ** Free Trip on only 15 sales 
Call for a FREE information packet ! 

+ 
~ Sun Splash Tours 
u 1-800-426-7710 







OINT 
page 6 Tuesday, November 7, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
John Lucas 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Eliz.abeth Regan Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advenising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ...................... Jen Mackowiak Spons Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Controller .....•..................•.................... Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, SportS Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessari!y those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor /Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• RIGHT OR WIU.lNG? 
Pope challenges mankind to obey natural law 
I
n his Oct. 5 address to the United Nations, Pope John Paul based his plea for "freedom" and "solidarity" on the natural law, on "universal human rights, rooted in the nature of the person, .. .which reflect...a universal moral law written on the human heart." Throughout his visit, he reiterated that theme. The natural law concept is some­times misunderstood. so it may be help­ful here to review some aspects of it. 
Everything has a nature built into it by its maker. General Motors builds into a Chevy a nature 
affirm through reason the objective rightness or wrongness of acts, we gen­erally have neither the right nor the ability to judge the subjective moral cul­pability of the person who commits that act. To be culpable, one must know the act is wrong and still choose to do it. 
The natural law provides a standard for human law as well as for conduct. Martin Luther King echoed Aquinas when he said, in his Letter from Birmingham Jail, that "An unjust law is a code that is out of harmony with the 
moral law." 
and provides 
As St. Thomas put directions as to the it, if a human law law of that nature "deflects from the so that the car will law of nature," it is achieve its pur­Charles unjust and "is no pose. longer a law but a 
So also our perversion of law." "Manufacturer" Rice (S.T., 1,11, Q.95, has built a nature art.2.) Unjust laws into us which we are "acts of violence ought to follow if rather than laws." 
we are to achieve our final end of eternal happiness with God. 
T
The law of our nature can be known certainly, as Thomas Aquinas put it, by "the light of natural reason, whereby we discern what is good and what is evil." (Summa Theologica, I, II, Q.91, art.2.) And God has provided specific directions in Revelation, including the Ten Commandments, which express the "principal precepts of the natural law". {Catechism of the Catholic Church, No.1955) he first, self-evident principle of the natural law is, in Aquinas' words, that "good is to be done and promoted, and evil is to be avoided." {S.T., 1,11, Q.94, art.2.) The good is that which is in accord with the nature of the subject. While it is good to feed gasoline to a car, it is not good to feed it to a man. And it is not good, i.e., it is evil, to steal or murder, because such acts are con­trary to the natural human inclination to live in community. But, while we can 
We may be obliged to obey an unjust law "to avoid scandal or disturbance," but a law that is unjust because it would compel one to violate the Divine law must never be obeyed. (S.T., 1,11, Q.96, art.4.) "Moral truth is objective," as John 
Paul II said in Denver two years ago, "and a properly formed conscience can perceive it." But our intellects are weakened by original sin and people do sincerely disagree on applications of the natural law. 
Natural law arguments were ad­vanced on both sides of the slavery question as they are today on many issues. But if you and I disagree on the morality, say, of racial discrimination or abortion, we cannot both be right. 
"If...we consider one action in the moral order, it is impossible for it to be morally both good and evil." (S.T., I,ll, Q.20, art.6.) But who am I to say conclu­sively on my own that you are wrong? And vice versa. An authoritative inter­preter is needed if the natural law is not to degenerate into grist for endless dis­cussion and become relatively useless as a standard for law and human conduct. 
John Paul offers the solution to this problem: "Christians have a great help for the formation of conscience in the Church and her Magisterium. As the [Second Vatican] Council affirms: ... '[T]he Catholic Church is by the will of Christ, the teacher of truth. Her charge is to announce and teach authentically that truth which is Christ. ..and confirm the principles of the moral order which derive from human nature itself.' ...The authority of the Church, when she pro­nounces on moral questions, in no way undermines the freedom of conscience of Christians. This is so...because free­dom of conscience is never freedom 'from' the truth but always and only freedom 'in' the truth.... The Church puts herself .. at the service of con­science, helping it to avoid being tossed to and fro by every wind of doctrine pro­posed by human deceit. .. and helping it not to swerve from the truth about the good of man, but rather...to attain the truth with certainty and to abide in it." (Veritatis Splendor, No. 65.) 
The teaching authority of the Church is possessed by the Pope and the bishops in union with him. The question is not whether we must recognize a moral authority but rather which one will it be. Everyone has a pope, in that everyone recognizes an ultimate visible authority on moral questions. If that interpreter is not the real Pope, it will be a pope of the individual's own selection: Ann Landers, Dan Rather, your friendly campus the­ologian or the autonomous individual himself. 
n the other hand, Christ is God, theOChurch is his and the Pope is his Vicar on earth. It makes sense to recog­nize that we have only one Pope, not six billion, and that his name is John Paul because he is the successor of Peter to whom Christ gave the keys. 
Catholics are obliged to give "religious submission of will and of mind" to the 
T
moral teachings of the Pope whether or not those teachings are technically infallible. (Vatican II, Dogmatic Constitution of the Church, No. 25.) In his 1987 address to the bishops of the United States, John Paul noted that "there is a tendency on the part of some Catholics to be selective in their adher­ence to the Church's moral teachings. It is sometimes claimed that dissent from the Magisterium is totally compatible with being a 'good Catholic' and poses no obstacle to the reception of the sacra­ments. This is a grave error that chal­lenges the teaching office of the Bishops of the United States and elsewhere." he papacy is a gift of God, affording us an opportunity for moral certainty on applications of the natural law. However, the obligation of Catholics to accept the teaching authority of the Pope does not diminish the importance of framing issues in terms of the "uni­versal moral law" which provides, as John Paul put it at the UN, the "moral logic which is built into human life and which makes possible dialogue between individuals and peoples." In his reminder of the reality of universal moral truth, he has rendered a service to us all. As he said at Camden Yards on Oct. 8. 
"Today, the challenge facing America is to find freedom's fulfillment in the truth: the truth that is intrinsic to human life created in God's image and likeness, the truth that is written on the human heart, the truth that can be known by reason and can therefore form the basis of a profound and univer­sal dialogue .... Democracy cannot be sustained without a shared commitment to certain moral truths about the human person and human community .... Every generation of Americans needs to know that freedom...consists not in doing what we like, but in having the right to do what we ought." 
Professor Rice is on the Law School faculty. His column usually appears every other Monday . 

• DOONESBURY 
MR. SP&AKB<, I HAV& tON6 813&N PROUP 7VCAU.MY5UP 
AN ENVIRONMENTAU'3T. AnR AU, WHAT IS MO!<E C{)'~Jf£/<VA 
TIV&lHAN~VAT/ON~ 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
IT'5 8AO ENOt.EH 70 QJT 7H8 
175A

&PA'S BU!X£T8YA THJRJ){ f3{JT DYtt/HOS& AUTHORiTY 00 IAJ& 1¥VOLU­
US& ANAPPROPRIATIONS DIU.-710N,IAPY!
70 &X&MPTMAJOR 
• Quon: OF THE DAY 
''There is no such thing as 'natural law': this is nothing but old nonsense." 
-Henri Beyle Stendhal 
.,­


VIEWPOINT
Tuesday, November 7, 1995 page 7 
• LETTER TO THE EotTOR 
Irishman sheds light on homeland conflict 
Dear Editor: 
As one of the very few Irish people on campus, I have been extremely inter­ested to read the various opinions on the North of Ireland, as aired in the Viewpoint section of the Observer. In fact it is quite heartening to see people take an interest in the conflict that has had such an enormous effect on my life. However I am sorry to say that a num­ber of the articles served only to restate biased propaganda which has merely one objective: the demonization of the nationalist cause. 
It has been one of the greatest suc­cesses of the British propaganda ma­chine that it has managed to convey to the entire world, and believe it or not Ireland as well, the opinion that the con­flict is between two fanatical religious groups fighting over some unimportant biblical issues. In fact, the British pres­ence is the core of the problem. They convey the perception of a religious war to exonerate themselves from blame. 
The undeniable historical truth is that Protestants have been continuously at the forefront of Irish insurrection against the British. from Wolfe Tone in the late eighteenth century to John Mitchell in 1840's to Charles Stewart Parnell. 
The central issue, which is as impor­tant now as it was back at the time of the Presbyterian led United Irishmen's revolt in 1790's, is-"Should the people of Ireland govern themselves?" And by 'People of Ireland' I mean every single person, man and woman, Catholic, Protestant and dissenter, who is a native of any part of the island 
This question arose yet again at the end of the First World War. This time the British government reneged on a Bill of Parliament which was already passed to give Home rule to Ireland. (Note up until this time all of Ireland was con­trolled by Britain). It reneged for the simple reason of political expediency. The Conservative party in Britain real­ized if they could count on the Pro­unionist support in the North Eastern area of Ireland they would have a majority in Parliament. 
As a pay-off six counties of Ireland were not given the home rule demanded by the majority of the people of Ireland. These six North Eastern counties were specifically selected so that a pro union­ist majority existed, which was Protestant. 
Over the years from 1921 to 1969 var­
• AND IN nus CORNER •• * 

South Bend our home 
No clever intro to this one. And no "top ten lists" for me; I'm tired of those. 
* 
''The Sabbath." Nothing around here is open on Sunday. Even the buses don't run, which is really annoying. A remnant of the "blue laws," I assume, along with the prohibition of alcohol sales, which are designed to make everyone observe "the Lord's Day." Regardless of the religious intolerance inherent in this rule, I have to wonder why Indiana still allows the Colts to play on Sunday. The players and coaches, the refs, the vendors, the rent-a-cops. all work in blatant defiance of the Lord's Will. Of course, if there was no football on Sunday in Indiana, I don't suppose the rest of us would enjoy our day of rest. 

* 
Motor vehicle oddness. I have heard that in Indiana there are no emissions tests for poisonous gases in exhaust fumes, or that each county is allowed to decide for itself (which amounts to the same thing}. Apparently there are also no vehi­


cle inspections for headlights, brakes, etc. I'd estimate that about 1 in 10 cars and trucks here would be illegal to drive in New York. 
As far as obeying traffic laws, I have yet to see anyone actually stop at a stop sign. Drivers gun their accelerator petals, snorting derision at arrogant pedestrians 
who dare to walk across intersec­tions. Less than half ever bother signaling to turn. Some guy in a Jeep Wrangler has almost run me over twice at the corner of Notre Dame and Angela by zooming around his right turns. There was a pretty good accident there a few weeks ago, one of the cars going so fast that the other one had done a 180 after losing most of its front end. The fat guy in the Bears sweatshirt was trying to sell the survivors ND/USC tick­ets for two hundred bucks. 
* 
Five percent. The first time I saw that billboard ­"Keeping Your Taxes Low: Indiana Hooray" -I couldn't believe it was for real. I heard that a Hepublican gubernatorial candidate proclaimed his intent to eliminate sales tax for one whole month if elected. In any east coast state this guy would be laughed out of politics. I didn't realize Indiana had so much money burning a hole in its pockets: evidently the profits from the state lotto are used to reduce the cost of license plates. Now there's a worthy cause. 

* 
The Cult of Lou-sernality. Advertising "Lou masks" on television is tacky, but admittedly the profits do go to charity. This only follows the capitalist credo decry­ing "money for nothing." There must be a number of football fans out there who normally wouldn't give charity even a wooden nickel but would fall over each other trying to get their drunken hands on a mask depicting their football god. 


This neck-brace is something else. This is really something else. Lou Holtz puts his neckbrace up for sale at an auction. I assume the proceeds go to charity,. though I've heard nothing about the beneficiary's iden­tity. Still, what kind of loony would want to buy a neck­ious techniques were used to discrimi­nate against the Catholic people of this area. This included gerrymandering, and institutionalized discrimination in housing, work, education and voting rights. From this unjust society sprung the Civil rights movement of the late 60's. From this the IRA rose. In the mid 60's they had approximately twenty activists and virtually no arms of any note. A fact that is constantly over­looked is that for such an organization to develop into the most powerful guer­rilla group in the world, with a huge arsenal, they had to have had the sup­port of a large section of the public. The sole thing a guerrilla group needs to survive is public support, most impor­tantly to provide 'safe houses' and personnel. 
Growing up in Northern Ireland has been a great and sometimes terrifying experience. However it has taught me never to take so called 'facts' for grant­ed. I have come to learn that most information directed at me has been tainted either consciously or subcon­sciously to demonize those people wish­ing to change the status quo. 
I consider the prospect of Gerry Adams talking at this college a great opportunity for all students to hear another view on Northern Ireland. Not the one of murderous psychopaths gen­erated by the British media, nor the one of bigoted self-interest, but one of peace. The party he leads has more councilors on the Belfast City council than any other party. One in every three nation­alists in the North of Ireland continually vote for Sinn Fein despite the popular media categorization of such voters as apologists for murder. Adams does not condone the killing of any person, as it is morally reprehensible, although he like myself can understand why some people turned to arms. 
Since 1983, not August 1994, he has been working on bringing a peaceful solution to the conflict, by ensuring the seeds of such regrettable violent unrest are removed for good. By doing so he wishes to remove all guns from Irish politics. He has in my opinion done a great deal. To use an Edward deBono analogy, let's stop digging the same hole just because we have so much invested in it, and let's have the courage to climb out and dig new holes, for it is there where the treasure may lie. 
TERRY MCGIVERN 
Alumni Hall 

brace? What the hell would you do with one anyway? Why this man merits such fanatical reverence is beyond me. I thought idolatry was considered "pagan" by the Church. 
* Notre Dame 1812. Someone told me that the playing of the 1812 Overture and accompanying student choreography was "tradition" at ND football games. Who in the world knows why Tchaikovsky has any­thing to do with Notre Dame, and why the students sieg heil over and over on national television. It looks just like a scene out of Pink Floyd's the Wall. Add a bunch of Lou masks and it would be identical. 
*Working 9-4. Nobody here seems to work an eight­hour day. Banks close at 4 dur­
ing the week, the post office closes at 4:30, and neither are open on Saturday. Of course, this was also the case in Michigan, so maybe it's a mid­
Matt Apple western thing. If the banks and post office in my little ultra-right wing rural town can be open 8­12 Saturdays, I don't see why they can't do the same here. 

* 
The air waves. I can't find any decent radio stations. Not that I like radio in gen­eral, but the stations around here are exceptionally pathetic. And what's up with these local TV stations? We've got the religious nuts and the farm report anchorman, both speaking in drawls as if they're Southerners. And, of course, the Lou Holtz Show, which runs every day every five hours or so. Ijust can't get enough of the man. 

* 
The weather. I don't mind cold weather, but this constant 20 mph wind sucks. This isn't really a weird factor, since Indiana has no control over its weather. Just a whiny complaint from someone who misses mountains and valleys. And where's the snow? I expect a foot by Thanksgiving, dammit, and a constant two feet on the ground December though April. That would be cool. 

* 
Saving the Best for Last -the University Park Mall. Oh, what to say about this jewel of South Bend. The first indication of this oddity is the upbeat sign that greets your entrance to its law-abiding corridors: 


"Welcome to University Park Mall. To enhance ev­eryone's shopping enjoyment, management prohibits: loitering, horseplay, vandalism, loud or offensive lan­guage, portable radios, sitting on planters and bois­terous behavior! Violators will be shot" -uh, I mean, "Violators will be removed from the mall." 
Let's analyze this sign. 
Loitering. "To wander about aimlessly ... to move in a slow or idle manner." Seems to me that store owners would want their customers to wander about aimless­ly, since customers who lose sense of time usually spend the most money. If this was not the case. stores 
would all have clocks on their walls and wouldn't play elevator music. 
Horseplay. I've seen this one before in other malls. Basically, little kids can't be little kids. "Good children ares en and not heard." 
Vandalism. Duh. "We prohibit anything that is al­ready considered illegal. No mugging or homicide al­lowed." 
Loud or offensive language. Offensive to whom? I find it offensive that you compare my shenanigans to that of a hairy and sweaty quadruped. Ever heard of the first Amendment? 
Portable radios Yep, those walkmen thingeys are darned annoying to those of us who can't hear what someone else is listening to. 
Sitting on planters This is just plain strange. Were there really so many people who did this that it war­ranted a sign? 
Boisterous behavior! What the hell is this supposed to mean? Generally having fun or enjoying shopping? The exclamation point after this is very amusing, as if you hadn't gotten the point by now. 
Basically, the owners of the mall don't want any teenagers or basketball players interrupting all the baby-stroller pushing young homogenous couples from blissfully drifting from uptight middle-class clothing store to uptight middle-class clothing store. Even more telling is another sign out front of the mall, naming a certain Mr. DeBartolo as proprietor. Might this be the same DeBartolo after whom is named a singularly ugly Notre Dame building? And, wonder of wonders, there's a bus from Notre Dame campus to University Park Mall, but none going from ND to Scottsdale Mall. Rumor has it that. since Scottsdale recently added a food court and an additional three movie theaters, the University Park Mall will be doing the same, "to com­pete." 
Add this to the insinuation by the University to its un­dergraduates that South Bend is so completely crime­ridden that it's dangerous to walk off campus after dark, and add this to the fact that ND has been buying all the land around its borders and turning perfectly good houses into more empty lots, as well as fighting anyone who wants to build or even renovate along nearby avenues, and a distinct pattern emerges. Hmmm, maybe there are things about South Bend and Notre Dame that aren't so weird after all ... 
Matthew Apple is a Creative Writing graduate stu­dent at Notre Dame. He can be contacted at matthew.t. apple. I @nd. edu. 
-\ I I ­
I. , f I -I I ­
. -. . 
~ 
. I ' I I . 

page 8 Tuesday, November 7, 1995



ACCENT 
i 
t l 
t•
I 
f 
t 
" 
( 
i 
I 
,}-? 
i· . 
.~ 
• ACCENT ASKS••• 
Backpack or Shoulder bag? Which do you use? 


"Backpacks, because two straps are twice as fun." 
John Gordon, Sophomore, Keenan 
"I use a shoulder bag becaue it's easy to get my stuff in and out of, and it's convenient:' 
Mary Wendell, Senior, Cavanaugh 



"A shoulder bag is easy on the strenuous muscles and chicks dig it." 
Alex Montoya, Senior, St. Edward's 
"I would have to choose a bookbag because it seems to me that you can fit more books in it." 
Joe Olegario, Freshman, Alumni 



"Shoulder bag. I like the style better. It's easier to pick up and run." 
Sarah Corkrean, Sophomore, McCandless 
"Bookbag. It's easier to carry. You can carry it different ways." 
Natalie Nolan, Freshman, Regina 


The Observer/Ashle1gh Thompson and Leslie Zielinski 

By MEGAN FERSTENFELD Accent Writer 
I
t's with you nearly every waking hour, by your side or underfoot. You see it even more than you do your roommates or best friends. To lose it would be catastrophic and possibly emotionally scar­ring. It's your bookbag, that trusty old piece of can­vas or leather that holds little less than your life. 
Indeed, bookbags are an integral part of academic existence here at Notre Dame, as students must carry their materials to class day in, day out, rain or shine. However, no two bags are alike, as any ND or Saint Mary's student can and will attest. Rather, they are just as unique and highly personalized as the individuals who carry them. What prompts stu­dents to pick a particular bag? As it turns out, every­thing from lifestyle and function, to appearance and brand play a role. 
The two most common types of bags on campus are backpacks and shoulder-strap bags, each having their own set of advantages and drawbacks. Students who prefer backpacks say they are more comfortable and can hold more books. One junior stated, "I had a shoulder bag once, but when I had to walk long distances it became annoying because I had to constantly readjust it." In addition, students who bike or blade to class find that backpacks are essential. "I have to have a backpack to ride my bike, otherwise I can't stay balanced," Pangborn resident Kimberly McGhay confided. 
Fans of the shoulder-strap variety also are con­vinced that theirs are the superior bags. They are "much easier to carry because you don't have to fumble with all those straps-you just sling it over your arm and go," sophomore Sean Wetjen claims. Moreover, they look "less studious and more classy," according to one senior. Finally, shoulder bags supposedly have more places and pockets for essentials like pens, pencils and calcula­tors, which are necessary features for students who are concerned about organization. 
A s far as physiological advantages, Dr. K. Ronald J-\.stedman, D.C., of the McKinley Spinal Center believes that backpacks are more beneficial. A backpack is "probably better because it allows you to evenly distribute the weight of your load," he says. However, any bag carried improperly for a long period of time can cause damage. Symptoms of misuse can be as mild as neck pain or headaches, or as severe as scoliosis (curvature of the spine) and thoracic outlet syndrome (painful compression of the blood vessels, nerves, and muscles in the lower neck). While this should raise significant cause for concern, not too many students actually take their health into account when selecting a bag. 
Instead, choice of bookbag appears highly corre­lated with one's major or future plans. It seems that business majors prefer to carry shoulder bags because they "look better for interviews." Or, it may be because they more closely resemble the briefcases and attache cases that these students anticipate to be carrying after graduation. On the other hand, science majors, along with those in Arts and Letters, really show no tendency toward either type. 

' 



Finally, there is the case of students in ROTC, who are in a class by themselves. They are not permit­ted to carry any accessories on their uniforms, so they have to make certain adjustments. Some stu­dents go to the trouble of purchasing military issued "map cases", which are essentially khaki-colored shoulder bags that can be worn on field uniforms. Others simply cope on the days they have ROTC classes, and carry their backpacks in one hand by the loop on the top, although sophomore Army cadet Mike Tierney admits that this practice "really starts to hurt your wrist after awhile." 
Trends also seem to develop among age groups. For example, many students remember that in high school, it was considered "uncool" to wear a back­pack over both shoulders. One freshman comment­ed, "Until my last year, it was definitely a social faux pas to be seen carrying your backpack properly. Upperclassmen. too. have noticed certain changes in bookbag popularity and usage over the years. They report that more people switch to shoulder bags as they get older, and that the backpack begins to phase out. This does seem to hold true. since most professors carry shoulder bags. For instance, 
• 

Your coM Your Your bo 
A Personal Histor 
Age 6: Go off to First Grade with you adorned with your favorite straps are worn to maintai little shaky 
Age 13: Proceed to Junior High with: one shoulder in an attemp 
Age 16: Fit in with the best as you sb hall ways carrying a genet keyring or button from you optional 
Age 18: Arrive at college and procee an expensive, yet worth it, or ... Arrive at college with your trt bag, that nostalgic remnar 
Age 22: Glide confidently through Gr adorned with your new sh1 :. that box with your diploma 
Age 27: Confidently place your brief 1 but never forget how you ~ 

~--~-~--~------~-~­
Tuesday, November 7, 1995 page 9 



ACCENT 

Spanish professor Kevin Bauman recalls that he car­ried a bookbag while still in school, but now prefers to use a single-strap case to transport his papers and books to his four classes. 
F
inally, brand name has some share of influence over the bags that students buy. The most popu­lar ones on this campus are Jansport, L.L.Bean. Eddie Bauer, and High Sierra. Most have lifetime guarantees on all their bags, which is an attractive option for college students whose bags are inevitably subjected to a great deal of wear and tear over the course of many semesters. 
Also. unique to this university. is the special edi-_ tion Jansport bag embroidered with the interlocking "ND" and Notre Dame seal, available at the Hammes bookstore. One student confesses to have bought it because it was the only one he could find on cam­pus. and he needed one in time for the first day of class. Another student, however, purchased hers out of unconditional affection for Notre Dame. "When I go on the airplane I like to let everyone know where I go to school." she says. 
\ 
•

npan1on. · life. ~ok bag. 
,.y of the Bookbag 
Jr new plastic bookbag, no doubt ~cartoon character; Both .in your balance, which is still a 
a cool, canvas bag, slung over Jt to look mature and sophisticated 
:rut through those high school 
ric bag dangling a high school Jr favorite band; originality is 
~d directly to the bookstore to get , Notre Dame JanSport, 
usty friend, that broken-in book nt of the past 
raduate School libraries, toulder bag; the bookbag is in :t 
case upon your very own desk, got there 
Truly, it is amazing how. many factors actually play into the decision to buy something as simple as a bag. But it doesn't stop here. Instead, once a stu­dent has selected his or her bag, it often becomes a creative outlet for personal expression. As junior Angela Litner professes, "My bag is truly an exten­sion of my personality." One of the most common artistic practices is to decorate one's bag. For example, junior Kim Sturm has patches from all the European countries she visited over the summer sewn on her backpack. 
Many more students have buttons proclaiming political messages or ribbons that represent their affiliation with a certain cause. such as SADD or Right to Life. Still others have their bags mono­grammed, a service offered by L.L. Bean for only $5.00 for up to ten characters. One such female stu­dent reports that she likes having her bag embossed with her initials because "it makes it more personal­ized." Taking the award for being most innovative of all is sophomore Tim Fusco, who carries a PEZ dispenser attached with velcro on his backpack so he can give his friends in his classes PEZ candies throughout the day. 
S
ome students also harbor special attachments to their bags. For example, one girl has a whole seam of hers held together entirely by safety pins. When questioned as to why she didn't simply get a new bag, she replied, "I just couldn't bear to part with the old one." Another student, a sophomore in Flanner, uses a bag that has a zipper broken on the middle pocket. While he admits it is rather annoy­ing to have his bag perpetually open. he says, "it is a means for picking up women, though, because they always approach me and try to zip it." Obviously, some students just don't know when it's time to move on. 
Whatever their preferences, though, students all agree that bookbags are not always used for strictly academic purposes. Many take their bags on week­end or overnight trips because, in the words of one junior, "They are the perfect size for traveling short distances." "They also make very good pillows," according to a resident of Knott, "to sleep on in class or as makeshift beds while waiting in train stations or airports." 
Finally. students have been known to utilize their bookbags for the illegal purpose of smuggling items out of the dining halls. Don't the workers ever won­der where all those quantities of cereal, glasses, bowls. and candles disappear to? It is reputed that some off-campus students have entire dishware col­lections bearing the Notre Dame colors and insignia, all transported to their apartments via seemingly innocent bookbags. And why do so many students take their backpacks for a walk before partying on Friday and Saturday nights? Finishing up work at the library, of course. 
It's easy to go through the day without even notic­ing they are there, yet bookbags really do play a prominent role in the life of a student. They more than serve their intended purpose, and often come in handy when you least expect it. So, whether you are walking to DeBartolo or going on a trip to the Himalayas, "don't leave home without it." 


• MEDICAL MINUTE 


Nature vs. Nike 
Women s bodies in training 
By LIZA NYKIEL 

Accent Medical Correspondent 
S
ome ·_w.o.m·en see it a_··s a wonderful fu~ction_ o~...th_··.e.·.i.r·:::,:
bodies which allows them to have cluldren. ·. Some 
· women call it the plague. Men. I think, are just scared and mortified by the whole affair. No matter how you IOQk at it, a women's monthly menstrual cycle is an interesting thing . (how else do you describe it?) An odd phenomenon related to this monthly affair frequently occurs in women athletes while they're in the midst of rigorous training-_. they flat out don't get their period. Although the reasons for this happening are not known. there has been some research documenting this dysfunction. 
Increasing in frequency in the late 1970's, the rate of this dysfunction has risen proportionally with the increase of competition among women athletes. Early research showed that wWle the occurrence of menstrual cycle dys.; function within the non-athletic population was around four. percent. a whopping forty-five percent of all women athletes are plagued with this alteration of t~e plague (there. now you know how f feel about the whole matted. Athletic. menstrual cycle dysfunction (AMI). a fancy word 
-for this phenomenon. can occur with different levels of • severity. Some athletes experience the cm.npl~te cessa.ti~n . of their period, or may just have to deal With trregulanties ·· intheir cycle. Others menstruate but don't ovula~.• · is what birth control pills do 'to protect you from ileltttn.ll pregnant while still ma~!liaining the natural .~~._.,,.~_....... 
.cycle~ · . · ······. . 
U~~~~;~~ has~SO documented the hormonal and Dll'VSI•·.·:::::>J 
i¢al'changes occurring within the female . a ........:.....,.. experiencing this phenomenon.. In a . .· •.'n.•.~••.".T"._:lf1.~'•.·ual cycle, there is a period {pardon the p~m) l!l whtch ~e luuJlg 
*of·the uterus prepares for the possible UDJ?l~tatiOn of a 
····rertilized embryo. In a woman with AMI. thts time of uter.. ine wall preparation is shortened. The honnone pr?ges­terol1e, wWch triggers this preparation, is usually at htgher levels within the blood, yet in women experiencing AMI. low levels have been detected. Within the female body (within anybody's body, for that matter). once one hor"' mone's level is knocked out of whack. other hormone levels can also become irregular. In a normal menstrual cycle •. · since Wgh. progesterone levels usually inh!bits a h~rmone called the luteinizing hormone (LH). whtch functmns in suppressing further ovulation (the release of a!l egg from one of the two ovaries) before the present cycle IS over.low. levels of progesterone cannot control LH levels; thus, irreg· uhtrity of the cycle occurs.. In gener~l. AM~ ca!-lses h.or,. mone levels to be disrupted~ and with th1s d1srupt10n comes a world of dysfunction. including abnormal bleeding and erratic menstrual cycle patterns. 
As with most of the body's functions. when something doesn't happen that should, problem~ are bound t~ folio~. The biggest difficulty that women Wlth AM[ expenence ~s loss of bone mineral density, a problem commonly associ­ated with osteoporosis. Although exercise has ~een credit· ed with increasing the amount of bone mass m athlet~s. studies have shown that women with AMI have lower mm­eral deposits in the vertebrae of their lower spines than do non-athletes. 
In general, as a result of this loss of mineral deposit on the bones, the bones become weakened and the AMI ath­lete becomes more susceptible to stress fractures. The connection between screwed-up menstrual hormone levels and the level of mineral deposits within the bone is estro­gen. Estrogen, like progesterone, is often found in decreased blood levels in those females with AMI. and not only is estrogen involved in the regulatio.n. of th~ menstrual cycle, it also aids in the process of deposttmg mmerals on~o the bone during bone development. Although the body IS pretty dam amazing in its ability to compensate for the things we inflict upon it, it has its limits. · 
Believe it or not. there does appear to be some benefits for those women experiencing AMI. Epidemiological stud­ies in the past have discovered differences in the long-term reproductive and general health of college female athletes versus their non-athletic counterparts. This study showed that former athletes had less than half the lifetime occur­rence of cancer rates of the reproductive system and the breast than the non-athletes. Since these two cancers are hormone-sensitive, the irregular estrogen, progesterone and LH levels may play a part in this occurring. 
Liza Nykiel is a senior biology major who hopes to atten~ medical school in the fall ofnext year. She has had e~perz­ence volunteering in a number of emergency rooms zn t~e past and worked in a health clinic this past summer zn Lake County • Illinois. 
page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, November 7, 1995 
May 
continued from page 16 
bother her. 
"One thing that really helped her is that she set nearly our entire spring," Brown said. "The experience she got from the spring helped her adjust and take over the role of starting setter this fall." 
In addition to the pressure of being in such an important position with limited experience, May has also endured the pressure of being the only official setter on the Irish roster. The position of setter requires a much more mental contribution and confident approach, in addition to the physical stamina that a setter must exhibit through being involved in every play. May's confidence has continually devel­oped throughout this season as she gains experience with each match. 
"I knew the confidence would have to come with experience," said May. "It was hard though because I had never played in a big-game situation." 
Although there is some comfort in know­ing that she isn't competing for the start­ing role, there also lies a down side as May doesn't get to rest, even when the Irish shut out teams 15-0 like they did against St. John's last weekend. Then again, May is of the main reasons for such success. 
"Of course it's nice," May answered when questioned about the assurance she will play every game. "But it is also hard to improve without having any competition to push me make myself better." 
Still, both her teammates and coaches agree that May's self-imposed pressure has led to her continual improvement. 
"Carey tries so hard in practice every day and continues to push herself so that she can improve herself and help the team 
Classifieds 
improve overall," outside hitter Jaimie Lee said of her classmate. 
May also remains her own biggest critic. "I don't know how much of an impact I really have when we win," May humbly said. "But I definitely feel responsible when the team isn't playing well." 
May can definitely take some credit for the team's success this season. She has compiled 1257 assists in the 95 games she has played in, giving her an average of 
13.23 assists per game. May's intelligent play at the net has allowed the Irish to uti­lize their most important weapon, their overwhelming hitting attack. 
The setter's main job consists of drawing the other team's blockers away from the designated attack, allowing the hitter to achieve a kill. With the powerful outside attack of Lee and fellow sophomore Angie Harris, and the weak-side ambush of junior Jenny Birkner. May has been able to mix up the offense and monopolize the opponent's defense, leaving defenders spinning around in circles. 
"Carey allows us to use all of our hitters effectively," Brown said. "She has done a great job of mastering the slide set to Jenny Birkner and that is a difficult skill for a setter to master." 
In nearly one season, May has already improved and made a name for herself in collegiate volleyball. With two years left in her career, she has a long time to continqe to make the impression she has begun in this season. Nevertheless, May is in no way content with where she stands now and hopes that the rest of the season and the next two years will further her im­provement as a great setter. 
''I'm not at all to the point at which I want to end up," May said. "I definitely hope that I will continue to improve, my­self, and help the team improve overall." 
• VOLLEYBALL 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Looking lor ride! Oakbrk/W Chicago ADOPTION ... INTERESTED IN ()()() coffeEHouse ()()() suburbs 11/11 &/or back to ND HEARING MORE?? Come to the LaFun Baliroom ~-N__O_T_IC_E_s__~ll~--~--~__T_E_D__~ 11/12 Nicki x4803 PERSONAL Warm, professional Indiana couple, Wednesday night for SUB's lots of experience with children, Open Mike. Enjoy munchies and Mark's Towing TRAVEL ABROAD AND WORK­would love to talk to you about what java while listening to fellow
FOR RENT 
Roadside Service,Tire Changing, Make up to $25-45/hr. teaching 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 we can offer your precious child. students read their stuff. Jumpstarts,Many Services .. basic conversational English in LaFortune Student Center Stability, nurturing, love of learning, 9-11pm, Nov. 8 We Accept Checks & Charge Japan, Taiwan, or S. Korea. No HOMES FOR RENT NEAR ND We're open for your convenience!!! travel, lots of extended family, and ()()() cOffeehOuse ()()() Student & Senior Discounts teaching background or Asian lan­232-2595 Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight lull-time mom are just some of the ·Damage Free Towing guages required. For information Fri.: 7:30am -7:00pm things that your child would experi­Owen, he can't stay here forever. 
• 24 Hours * Motor Club Servicer call: (206)632-1146 ext. J55841 THAT PRETIY PLACE. Bed and Sat.: Noon -6:00pm ence in our home. Interested in Most of his friends have gone. It Ph#(219)271-2382 Breakfast Inn has space available Sun.: Noon -Midnight hearing more? CALL US (day or means so much to him. 
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT­lor football wknds. 5 rooms with pri­(closed home football Saturdays) night). Expenses paid. Theresa & I'll make it up to him next year. I For more information and assis­Students Needed! Fishing Industry. vate baths. Located in Middlebury, Lee 1-800-600-8428. promise. tance regarding the investigation of Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per 30 miles from campus. 1-800-418· Luke's just not a farmer, Owen. He financing, business opportunities month. Room and Board! 9487 0o0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0o0o0 $5.50 HAIRCUT has too much of his father in him. and work-at-home opportunities, Transporation! Male or Female. No QUALITY COPIES, QUICKLY!!! That's what I'm afraid of. contact the Better Business Bureau experience necessary. Call 3 BEDROOM HOME 5 MINUTE THE COPY SHOP VITO'S BARBER SHOP of Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd., (206)545-4155 extA55842 WALK TO ND GOOD AREA LaFortune Student Center 1525 LINCOLNWAV WEST ADOPTION Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637-2773097 Phone 631-COPY A wonderful home awaits your 4200; or call the BBB at 219/277-NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­0C0C0C0C0C000D00000D0 233·4767 baby. Happily married, financially 9121 or 800/439-5313. Seasonal & full·time employment Comfortable 2 Bdrm home. 1 mi. to secure couple will give much love. 
available at National Parks, Forests campus. $450/mo. Call Nick x0546 1-80 is damn boring!!!l-which is Well what are you then? Expenses paid. Call Margaret or Spring Break Bahamas Party & Wildlife Preserves. Benefits + or Tim x1 059. why I'd like some company when I I'm French, why do you think I have Peter at 800·529-8386. Cruise! Early Specials! 7 Days bonuses! Call: 1·206·545·4804 ext. drive home to Fairfield County this outrageous accent you silly $279! Includes 15 Meals & 6 N55842 Connecticut for Xmas .... if you're king. i say no. Parties! Great Beaches/Nightlife! ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE interested and can drive stick call What are you doing in England? Prices Increase 11/21 & 12/15! French couple (30 y. old) looking HOME FOR Dave at 4·1216 or 1-5323. Mind your own business. Spnng Break Travel1·800-678-lor English lessons at our home to ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE Free ride home for holiday in 6386 prepare GMAT. Good English, and TO CAMPUS. ELSIE'S PROMISE I, uh, was also thinking about our exchange for driving car to 
notions of teaching required. Call CALL 272-6194 AM OR 232-9620 Wed. Nov 8 Bridget's agreement about my staying on Alb/Syr/Bgm area. 272-7959. Spnng Break! Panama City! Early a.s.a.p. (219) 273·58·48 Granger. PM another sepson. And if these new Specials! 8 Days Oceanview Room & ASK FOR SANDY. AuDITIONS!aUdition!S!AuDITIONS! droids do work out, I want to trans· You know its bad when all you want With Kitchen $129! Walk To Best THE STUDENT UNION BOARD IS mit my application to the Academy to do is sell gummyworms Bars! Key West $2591 Cocoa Beach ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR Need 1 roommate now &1 more The Cavanaugh Hall Players this year. Hilton $169! Prices Increase 11/21 THE CAMPUS ENTERTAINMENT next sem. $195 Turtle Creek 273-presents: You mean the next semester before Tutu-FT How 'bout PT in our & 12/151 1-800·678-6386 COMMISSIONER, QUES­2366 harvest? BDU's? 3 days 'till your PFT. You 
TIONS???CALL 1-7757, OR STOP Later Life by A.A. Gurney Sure, there're more than enough ready? Cancun &Jamaica Spring Break BY 201 LAFORTUNE FOR AN 6 BDRM HOME NEAR ND. NEXT droids. -General ;) Specials! 111% Lowest Price APPLICATION FALL.272·6306 Open auditions: 11/8 and 11/9 Harvest is when I need you the Guarantee! 7 Nights Air From South Time: 7-10 p.m. most. Only one more season. This Kiddo, Bend & Hotel From $419! Book Student adept at Claris Works to SUBLEASE Turtle Creek single Place: Cavanaugh Hall basement year we'll make enough on the har­Paul will be OK, at least he has Early! Save $100 On Food/Drinks! tutor a new MAC owner/alum. Good call Dan 2732769 vest so I'll be able to hire some Nicko, that is best. See you very Spring Break Travel 1-800·678-pay. 277-2560 Questions or cannot attend call: more hands. And then you can go soon, hopefully Rob won't be that 
6386 Mark (4-1212) or Andrew (4·3584) to the Academy next year. big of a mooch, but he will, oh well.
FOR SALE
need roomate 4 2ndsem.call 273-You must understand I need you • An lllinios Farmer 4569monique AuDITIONS!aUditions!AuDITIONS! here. Wanted!! ND Ski Team T-Shirts! But it's a whole 'nether year. (whin­No. we didn't m1ss you. We really 
Individuals, Student Organizations BASKETBALL COACH responsible ..*.......... *......*..*....-*...*...*-... *-.... -*..*...... ·-·... •... •.........•..•... ·-·..*.......•..*..• ... *..*... *-*-*-._.. ing.) didn't miss you. to Promote , dependable, student/grad to coach Reaily cool and only $10! ND/SMC BALLROOM DANCE Look, it's only one more season. SPRING BREAK Earn MONEY and 5th·6th grade basketball team Nov­Call Potter@ 232-2955today!!! This Week: Yeah, that's what you said last year Kelly-Hate to blow your cover. FREE TRIPS Feb for south side elementary HUSTLE/ADV.RHUMBA whe'l Biggs and Tank left. sorry, I slipped again. CALL INTER-CAMPUS PRO­school, located near Scottsdale Great lor you, your roomie, or • 6:30 Tonight at 301 Rockne Where are you going? David GRAMS Mall on Miami Street. Must be avail­Christmas presents! • Only $3/lesson or $25 sem. It I01Jks like I'm going nowhere. I http://www.icpt.com able for practice Mon-Thurs from COME DANCE WITH US! have to finish cleaning those droids. nannery -you're still cool and tuff. 1·800·327 -6013 1:30-2:30. Game schedule varies ·-·... *.. *.. *..*..*..*..*..*... *-*... *..*..*... *..*..*-* .. *-·-·-(You missed us, you really missed of course. don't let it get you down 
with games beginning after school Elect guitar perfect cond $225 obo us!) it's on me at coaches, and we know at 4:00, 5:00, or 6:00pm. Paid posi­amp free ~73·5380 Calif. actress-wnter wife &photog­how cheap 1 am. mcgrathILOST & FOUND I tion. Call 291-4200 or 291-8731 to rapher husband wish to adopt new­FALL FESTIVAL 1995 is this apply. GREAT CHRISTMAS GIFT IDEA! born. Will provide love, nurturing Saturday, November 11. Come Treacy -Our world has no meaning LOST Give a ct111d you know the gift of environ., educ., financial security. join us and work with the without you. Well, not really, but 
PRESCRIPTION GLASSES Wanted: Used MS-DOS Laptop 386 reading. Colorful and unique per­Hollywood Hills home has large residents of the Northeast the pretzels just weren't the same. gold frames w/ marble brown&black or 296. Alonso 1-6982. sonalized books for children. 15% back yard and loving dog. Call Neighborhood. BARBECUE PS • when are we going to CJs? around lens student discount. Call 1-800-375-818/241-5535 collect. Legal & WILL FOLLOW Vans begin x10782 Wanted: Used MS-DOS Laptop 386 3340. 24 hr. recorded message Confidential. leaving Main Circle at 9:00 a.m. M· Theses silly urges will be the 
or 296. Alonso 1-6982. gives details. and will return starting at 12:00 death of you. ......... LOST **** 
• •••••••• * * 
'1111 ••••••• 
p.m. 

SMALL GOLD HOOP •sASS PLAYER WANTED 100 Watt Fisher stereo system, Ben-Misdemeanor-You will not be the EARRING call P. O'Connor-P.Cassidy Radio Shack Mach 1 speakers call Hi Hussy!! hey kids, do you like the hard-boiled last. Your time has come, Saturday CALL 3709 2344205 2773201, Thanks Mary after 5 for details. 272·4137 eggs? night!! 


Fisher 
continued from page 16 
scoring before halftime. 
This decision proved costly. On fourth down, quarterback Chris Orr threw an incomplete pass, giving the ball back to Fisher with under a minute left. After one rushing play for no yards, quarterback Alfredo Rodriguez aired it out, sending a 28-yard bomb to flanker Dan Karson, giving the Green Wave a 7-0 lead that they would never relinquish. 
Zahm had its chances to score, but Fisher's relentless defense would have nothing of the sort. Not only did they post a shutout, but they also forced three turnovers out of Zahm's offense. 
Zahm's offense was hurt by the loss of flanker Dan Glen­non. who left the game early in the second half with an injury. 
The Zahm defense tried hard to keep their team in the game, forcing three turnovers. However. their effort seemed to go for naught. as their offen­sive teammates could not get the ball in the endzone. 
Zahm had a stellar season, but qow it is over. Their de­fense had been the story of this interhall season, showing an aggressiveness and intensity that inspired their fans. But Fisher proved that it is worthy to play with the best. 
Said Nelson, "It's real excit­ing to beat a team like Zahm. who played with a lot of class. It's even more exciting to be playing in the championship
.. 
game. 


Lyons 
continue9 from page 16 
downs in the red zone. On fourth and four, Lyons' Maureen Hill picked off Plummer's pass. It was her second or three interceptions, as Hill had picked off Plummer earlier and almost ran it back for a touchdown. 
Lyon's sealed the victory on their last drive. PE's defense was looking for the pass on third down and short yardage. when Lyons fooled them. Cen­ter Heather Broering picked up the ball and dashed thirty yards for the score. 
"It was the best game of the year. We couldn't have asked for a better game from the de­fense. Maureen Hill had the play of the game," Byrd said, "The offense's execution was good. Overall, the team's per­formance was great." 
"The defense did a really great job, registering a shutout in the last game of the season," said Molly O'Shaughnessy, "Maureen Hill's performance was outstanding on fourth and four. The defensive line really stepped up and did a great job." 
PE captain, Sue O'Kain, summed up PE's performance like this, "The season was a step in the right direction for PE football. compared to sea­sons in the past." 
"It was a roller-coaster of a season. We had a couple of losses, which were unexpected. All of the losses were close games, but we could not win it in the end," stated Lyons' cap­tain Byrd, ''This game was a sweet ending to an up and down season." 
• MEN'S INTERHALL 
Cocks outlast Studs in overtime match 
By TIM MCCONN 
Sports Writer 

Many games throughout this interhall season have featured smash-mouth offenses and tough defenses. These same games have been low-scoring, dramatic affairs. 
The semi-final contest between Planner and Stanford went beyond that. Neither team could break through the other's defense, and it took an exciting overtime period before the Cocks could finally over­come the Studs, 8-0. 
Both teams tried to run right at the other. Flanner used the combination of tailback Dave Lichota and fullback Steve Hrovat, while Stanford em­ployed tailback Doug Pollina and quarterback Mike Browne. Each combination was steady, but the defenses ddn't allow any big plays on either side. 
"It was tough all day long," said Flanner tight end/defen­sive lineman Taylor McDonald. "I was really nervous just because the game was so close the whole way through." 
With close to four minutes remaining in the game, Stan­ford again forced Flanner to punt. But the Stanford return­er fumbled, and MacDonald recovered. 
The Cocks then drove down the field, as quarterback Scott 

HAPPY 
'.f~
c=::t~~ 
BIRTHDAY, 





MIKE! 
FROM MIKE, SUSIE, AMY, AND JOE 
University of Notre Dame International Study Prograan in 
I i 

I I ...... ~.­
~~~.:::--::=::=::=::::-c 
ANGERS, FRANCE 
1996 -97 Academic Year 
"Phonclines, Airlines and Deadlines -Getting You To Angers And Back" With Jlrofessor Paul McDowell 
Lupo combined with Lichota and Hrovat to bring the team down to the ten yard line. With less than 30 seconds on the clock, their fake field goal attempt was foiled, sending the game into overtime. 
In order to determine the winner, each team received four chances to score from the 10-yard line. 
With noisy crowds amassing down near the end zone, Flanner went first. After Hrovat gained a yard, Lupo faked the hand-off to Hrovat and the reverse to Lichota. While rolling out, he connected on a pass up the middle to give the Cocks a 6-0 lead. On the ensu­ing play they completed anoth­er pass for the two-point con­version. 
Then it was Stanford's last chance. After two consecutive rushes and a five-yard motion penalty, the Studs were still at the ten. On third and goal, they lined up with three receivers on one side and two on the other. This spread out the Planner defense, leaving nobody to cover the middle. Browne took the snap, followed his linemen up the gut, and seemed to be heading for the endzone, but he lost the ball and Flanner re­covered. 
Said McDonald, "It was nice to beat Stanford. I just can't believe we're playing in the championship game." 
TUESDAY NOVEMUER 7, 1995 
7:00 l'.M. 
ROOM 117 O'SHAUGHNESSY 
Newcomers arc always welcome! ltl·huuiug stullcuts will he on hand to answca· (JUCstious 
Fisher QB Alfredo Rodriquez, shown here carrying the ball in an earlier game against Caroll, threw a 28-yard touchdown pass to Dan Karson in Fisher's 7-0 upset of Zahm. 
GET1HE 

MEDICAL SCHOLARSHIP 
YOU NEED. 


If you're a medical stu­
dent, you have enough on your mind. Today's Air Force offers a scholarship program that can greatly reduce your financial burden. Participation is based on competitive selection. Get more information with no obligation. Call 
USAF HEALTH PROFESSIONS 
TOLL FREE 

1-800-423-USA F 

\ 





CLUB MEETING 
WED NOV. 8TH 7:00PM IN N.D. ROOM (2ND FLOOR LAFORTUNE) SPEAKER: DOUGLAS GERMANN 
BUSINESS & CORPORATE ATTORNEY "BEYOND THE TRAP OF ENTREPRENEURSHIP" PRESENTED BY THE NOTRE DAME ENTREPRENEUR CLUB 
t 

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, November 7, 1995 

• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Late Night ·Olympics· Steering Committee.. Ree , Sports is loo!dng for students interesteq'ln.planping···tllis'· all•nigbt sports extrava­ganza. ·Calll-823 7 ~;¥Hiii!It#i t t ~iM Basketball Officials.. 'Needed· for IH. .~nd qra.~/f~c/Staff. Games, PayS'''$8.SOtl game. [f 
·you are currently''& Co-Ree· oftlcialand would like to do other Basketball leagpes.,
call Mark at 1·6100. · · ·..........·.... 
Women's Lacrosse... Practice will be in Loftus on Nov. 13 and 15 from 9-10pm. These will be our last practices for the semester. Any questions? Call Alison at 239-7924. 
::=::-: 
. 

Give yourself a gift for Christmas... 
spend 5 days at St. Agatha's Church in Chicago 
Dec. 17th -21st 
• 5 days of service in inner city 
• opportunity to work-hands on -in parish outreach ministry to needy families and children 
• room and board provided on site 
• limited space available -apply early! 
Reiistration Deadline: November 17 available at the >· Center for Social Concerns 
Information sessions: November 15: 6:30 -7:00 PM November 16: 6:30 -7:00 PM at Center for Social Concerns 
.. .. .. ~ ~'-. 

• WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish get fourth seed in tourney 
By DAVE TREACY 
Spons Writer 
It's that time again. 
The University of Notre Dame women's soccer team has advanced to the NCAA tourna­ment for the third straight year. receiving the fourth seed. The Irish have a long layoff to pre­pare themselves to host the winner of the Wisconsin­Minnesota match-up, which takes place next weekend, on the 17th or 18th of November. 
"I thought we'd be a three seed," said Irish head coach Chris Petrucelli. "SMU got it, but I felt that we deserved it on strength of schedule. But they are undefeated at this point." 
The Irish will concentrate on their opponent two or three days before the contest. As of now, the squad looks to solidify their own game. 
"We're only going to be con­cerned with ourselves for a while," said Petrucelli. "We're going to go over fundamentals and combinations and put a lot 
RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING C 0 BPS 
~~ 
t..{ 
GET MOmFROM YOUR UNCLE INSTEAD. 
Your Uncle Sam. Every year Army fees. They even pay a flat rate for text­ROTC awards scholarships to hundreds books and supplies. You can also receive of talented students. If you qualify, 
an allowance of up to $1500 each these merit-based scholarships can school year the scholarship is in help you pay tuition and educational effect. Find out today if you qualify 
ARMY ROTC 
TIE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU £AN TAKE. 
For details, visit 216 Pasquerilla Center or call 631-6986 
i I 1_111 :' 
' t • , ' ' ' .• -· .... 

of stress on playing together." 
If Wisconsin beats Minnesota, the Irish will face a team they have already beaten this year, a 1-0 contest in Madison. The Irish did not play the Big Ten champion Gophers in 1995. Another rematch with the University of Connecticut is a distinct possibility in the round of eight. The Huskies also re­ceived a bye in the first round with the fifth seed overall. 
Notre Dame will play their matches in Alumni Field until the final four, which takes place in Chapel Hill. If all goes according to plan, Notre Dame will face North Carolina in the 
~hat are !JOU doing this Christmas? 
Consider signing up for Thea 365C "The Church and Social Action," colloquially known as "Urban Plunge" 
• 
48 hour experience in an inner city of your choice 

• 
During the week of January 3 -11 (dates are chosen by the host site) 

• 
BE WITH, LISTEN and EXPERIENCE the stories of people who live in poverty 

• 
Talk with people who are homeless 

• 
EXPERIENCE soup kitchens, shelters and welfare agencies 

• 
Meet people who are trying to make life better for people who live in poverty 


REGISTRATION DEADLINE: Nov. 10, 1995 
ORIENTATION: Nov.19, 1995 4-6PM Hesburgh Libr.u:y Auditorium 
FOLLOW-UP MEETING: Jan. 21, 1996 6:30 -10:00 PM 

'JtQ.gistration auailahw at tlw CQ.nf.Q.r for Social Conurns, Campus JHinist11J and <Jtall 'lteps -<U~ 
Campus JHinist111 cmd ..Multkultural ~ffain 119 ~ems -s.;HC 
Stu~nt ~ffairs Offiu-<JtCC 

tournament semi-final round. allowing Notre Dame a chance to avenge a loss to the Tarheels earlier this season. 
Notre Dame's showing in the Big East tournament has given the team a huge boost entering the NCAA's. 
·"I felt that we couldn't win the national championship unless we won the Big East. Our team has really come together as of late, and I think that the momentum and confi­dence we're accumulating will carry us through the tourna­
ment.  Winning the Big East  
was  a  necessity," Petrucelli  
said.  

page 13 

Tuesday, November 7, 1995 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

All in-store Merchandise 20°/o off 




IRISH 
EXPRESS 

HOURS 

--~ 


219 631 8128 
Wed. Nov 8 12-6 pm Thur. Nov 9 12-8 pm Fri. Nov 10 12-6 pm 
We Accept both Visa, Mast:erCard and Discover 


......___________________________........ ··--~~·.· ~.-.·:'•'-· 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, November 7, 1995 
l I I
}'­
, I, 
' 
_r...:-­
• fOOTBALL 
Krug takes over at the helm 
By MIKE NORBUT ready begun, which will do put away Navy, Krug's two Sports Editor nothing but help his new quar­fumbled handofTs in the second terback gain experience. half could have given the 
Sometimes. Lou Holtz might It will also be a time for Midshipmen the victory. as well be blindfolded when freshman Jarious Jackson, the Before the junior's second he's picking out plays. At least, highly-touted option-running touchdown pass to Mayes, the that's the way he feels when wizard, to work in with the Irish were beneficiaries of a Tom Krug's at quarterback. starting unit. It could possibly Navy illegal participation penal­
"When a play is called, a 

lead to some playing time ty that negated the second fum­coach would like to know what 
against Air Force. ble of the half. to expect," the Irish coach said. "The question is, is there a "Down on the goal line, "Sometimes, with Tom Krug, 
chance Krug and Jarious Jack­(Krug) was giving the ball to the you don't always know what to son both might play against Air tailback and hit the fullback expect." 
Force?" Holtz said. "Yes, with it," Holtz said. "We just
But, regardless of how he 

there's a chance. We'd like to have to work with it, and the feels about the situation, Krug 
win, and we'll do whatever we timing will be a little different." 
is most likely his quarterback 
can." Timing is the only real thingfor the rest of the season. Su­The best that can happen is that needs improvement. Krug 
perman hasn't been around 
that a Tony Rice can blossom already has the confidence of lately to reverse the rotation of out of that freshman build over his teammates. 
the earth, which would be the 
the next two weeks and lead "There are a lot of positivesonly way to bring Ron Powlus the Irish to a 10-2 record. 
about him," Holtz continued. back this season. 
The worst? A push from be­"He's mentally tough, and he Powlus underwent surgery hind for the competitive Krug, throws the ball well. I think he 
Sunday on his left arm, which 
who will gain more consistency has the respect of his team­was fractured against Navy 
with the more time he gets. mates because of his toughness. 
Saturday on a third quarter "I don't want to say he's 
sack by the Midshipmen's Fer­
Just as quickly as he threw durable, because that might be nando Harris. for two touchdowns and engi­the kiss of death." Harris sprung free on a blitz 
neered a 60-yard scoring drive Or maybe the sack of death. up the middle and got around 
in the fourth quarter to help
tailback Autry Denson's block­ing attempt to make the play. "Autry Denson reacted a little 
Happy 18th Birthday,slow to the guy inside," Holtz said. "In fairness to him, he's a freshman. We felt we didn't give him enough reps on it." 
Krug's impressive perfor­mance in the second half helped to ease the team's pain 
Please wear your mittens!! 
of losing their star quarterback. as well as to make players focus on what's upcoming. 
"I feel terrible for Ron and his 

Love, family," fullback Marc Edwards said. "But we still have a game Mom, Dad, against Air Force and a bowl 
Lindsay, Jesse 
game to play." 
And a long time to get ready and Lucy for both. The two-week prepa­ration for the Falcons has al-


The Development Phone Center gratefully acknowledges those who have supported its student caller incentive program. 
Amy's Restaurant-U .P. Mall Lula's Cafe Notre Dame Alumni Association
Barnes & Noble, Booksellers Pizza Hut, Inc.
Candy Candy Rally's Hamburgers 
Colorado Steakhouse Sunny's Korean Garden Patio 
Cornucopia Restaurant U93 & 1490 AM
Funny Bone Comedy Club University Park Mall
Granger Tap & Grill The Varsity Shop 
Great Harvest Bread 

Lee's Famous Recipe Chicken Wings, Etc. 
Sta(ks up lotLe 


Wednesday, November 15 8p.m. Thursday, November 16 8p.m. Friday, November 17 8p.m. Saturday, November 18 8p.m. Sunday, November 19 2:30p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall 

Reserved Seats $8 
Student and senior citizen discounts are available for all performances. Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. Mastert:ard and Visa Orders cali63I-8128 
-·---, ( IL"en!i 
1;, k.e! 
nO'.. g:i
9-:1PM: LAFtNt 
B1.uJ 
; 
ROONC 
I 
~, 
• 
J'-~·A-£1 ltoUs£ ~.: ' 
As a result of the tremen­dous demand, the Notre Dame Ticket Office has opened a limited number of seats for any Notre 

Dame or Saint Mary's College student still wanting to buy men's basketball season tickets. Tickets can be purchased between 8:30 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. at the Joyce Center's second floor ticket office. 
r . 
Tuesday, November 7, 1995 
The Observer • TODAY page 15 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
01'? r 'Dot<;. G&.,. ~. 
1-\u"? Wu \.. \\o~~& ~8•11T l{ov, 
~eo~E.O·tt4l>l'"n~, ~•->t.i. 
No-r'"'Do-•"6. ~ \-loT 
\i.l~  \NrEAAUf'  
T"eol'f-\'s CH:root.~  ·  
Ta Ofru. T"E.  :  
Fo'-'-oloi•NG,  

1\ f'O 1.-o(o.~· •• 
CAL YIN AND HOBBES 
DILBERT 
1'\/E B£.EN HIRED 
ey YOU~ COI"\PANY 1'0 PE.RFORt-\ AN 
ISO qooo AUDIT. 
DAVE KELLETT YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
... \Nii'"' 'E~PE.IlJI.I't'{O C\\e.£!>£. ';;pp.t.A't>·l \t'l\ j).~IM£ ~~P:f" _I! 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1995 I (For your personalized daily Jeane Dixon horoscope, based on your own date of birth, call 1-900-988-7788. Your phone company will bill you 99 
cents a minute.) HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE 'EXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Keep your ego under control and you can scale any mountain. Sharing the applause wins you a reputation as a teamlJiayer. 1996 brings happi­er, more prosperous times. Your wann-hearted approach to life wins you an ardent admirer. Find the time and funds to improve your appear­ance. Business travel will boost profits next May. Make your home a cozy retreat for family and friends, a refuge from outside pressures. CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: jazz trumpeter AI Hirt, songwriter Joni Mitchell, baseball legend Joe Niekro, chemist Marie Curie. ARIES (March 21-April 19): Give a visiting loved one the red carpet treatment. Your kindness will be richly rewarded! Follow conserv­ative spending guidelines to avoid depleting your resources. TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Move ahead with an exciting game plan for your finances or career. Lasting success is the result of con­stant effort. The business outlook is bright. Evaluate what is really tmportant to you. GEMINI (May 21-June 20): A sudden change on the domestic scene could distress you. Do not try to halt progress. Cut everyday expenses if trying to balance a bud­get. CANCER (June 21-July 22): The emphasis now is on protecting your privacy. Do not put your feel­ings for loved one on paper. Keep valuables under lock and key. Quar­reling with someone in a position of authority could prove costly. LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You would be wise to keep away from crowds today. Avoid both tiresome strangers and friends who ask impertinent questions. A worthy charity could use your support. 
CROSSWORD 
2 0 u 
..J 
0 
4( @) 
"'2 
4( 
0 
4(
... 
... 
0 
u 
"' 

BA.51Cf\LL't', YOU GIVE 1"\£. MONE.'( 1\ND I 
TELL YOU T\--\1>-.T '<OU'RE 
P.., BUNC\-\ OF DOLTS. IT'S iHE P[RFEC.T JOB 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Conditions at home improve. Learn more about scientific and historical subjects. Consult a lawyer before signing a contract. Retirees should be encouraged to participate in com­munity life. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Go ahead and present your views; you will win hands down. Forgive and try to forget a relative· s thoughtless­ness. A partnership's prestige is working in your favor. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Someone older and wiser reveals the truth. Higher-ups will compensate you for special favors. Plan a busi­ness trip carefully. Your expertise inspires confidence when you assume a leadership role. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Concentrate on family life. Seminars, lectures and long-distance phone calls prove enlightening. Keep the lid on spending. Buy only what you can afford. New partner­ships look promising. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Success is likely for projects associated with education, real estate or the government. Travel is also favored. A new interest fills your leisure hours. Be sociable. A neighbor could extend an unexpect­ed invitation. Follow your instincts. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Share your ideas with people close to your heart. Grateful reciprocity for past favors is indicated. Business correspondence should be answered at once. Pursue romance after office hours. Your popularity is on the rise! 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Changes at home could free you from certain responsibilities. Take a class in computers or a foreign lan­guage. Someone's psychic experi­
, ences interest you. Get together with a friend this evening. Plan a special outing. 

BILL WATTERSON 

t-\OBO\)'( RECOGNIZES !'A'( HINTS It) stJo-rn~R ME 
SCOTT ADAMS 

c; 
;: TE.Ll rw\ E. 
1't-'\ A.N ENGlNH.R. 
.E WH~T '<OU 
l MA.KE SLIDES 
~ .; DO \-\ERE. I 
THAT PE.OPLE. 
~ ~LICE I IF 
CAN'T READ. 
~ TH"T'S 
SOMETII'-\E.5 1
z 
: YOUR REAL 
E.A.T DONU\5 . 
... 

Sign up for Fall . Festival: ..·Join th~ residents of· th~ Northeast nei~hborhood raking leaves and pianti~. ng tulips.. $ign~ups are today in the dining halls as well as in ~h~ dorms and in the CSC. Spare a couple hours this Saturday, November 11 .and help a great cause. Barbecue to follow activities. 


ACROSS 
1 Hard overhand shot 6 Interstate truck 10 Daisy Mae's creator 14 Chick of jazz 15 Tournament for all 16 Double Stuf cookie 17 End of the bridal path 18 Burbot or turbot, e.g. 19 Beat a retreat 20 Final try 23 Like zinfandel 24 Howl at the moon 25 --the day 
26 Legendary Peter or piper 
27 Gilbert and Sullivan production 
32 Tom of "The Seven Year Itch" 
35 Valhalla dweller 
36 Layered hairdo 
37 Final moment 40 Pepsi, e.g. 
41 Beer variety 
42 Blood line? 
43 Country 
bumpkins 45 Nada 46 Stowe's "Little" 
girl 47 Mr. Sun 48 Junior, to senior 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

. . .,,... 
SOUTH 
Chicken Romano Stir-Fry Vegetables Noodles/Sliced Carrots 

-• 
• 
51 Like a 20-Across that succeeds at 37-Across 
57 Pacific salmon 58 Cousin of the English horn 59 Eponym of a 
New York island 60 Sinfulness &1 Boxing milieu 62 Interminably 63 Beach blanket? 64 Quizzes 65 Not neat 
DOWN 
1 Dump hot coffee on 2 Canine kin? 3 Pretentious 4 Straphanger's search 5 Ruthless tactics & Sentimental one 1 Sweeping story &Interlock 9 Native 10 Central Perk, on TV's "Friends" 11 Mr. Guthrie 12 Duke or earl 13 One who's well versed 21 Writer Fleming 22 Hare hair 2& Operator's 
request 27 Playwright Clifford 
28 Air freshener scent 29 Explorer Heyerdahl 30 Lacking slack 31 Taj Mahal site 32 Imprint on glass 33 Horse's halter? 34Wriggly 35 Horace contemporary 38 Billie Holiday's real first name 
39 Are residents of 51 Ensures, slangily
44 Christmas -­52 Temporary
45 Bronx attraction superstar 
47 Keel extensions 53 Skinny 
•MENU Notre Dame 

NORTH Flank Steak Sandwich Oriental-Blend Vegetables Potatoes Au Gratin 
Saint Mary's 
Vegetable Fajita Rice Pilaf · · Brussels Sprouts -'­
48 "Oliver Twist" 54 Tropical wading 
villain 
bird 49 Future signs 55 Bop 50 Dweebish 5& Fork point 



Recycle The 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­

Observer 
5656 (75¢ each minute). 

CAMPUS SQUASH CAMPUS TABLE TENNIS CAMPUS CO-REC WALLYBALL 
DEADLINE: NOVEMBER 8 
631-6100 

SPRING SEMESTER RACQUETBALL DOUBLES IH TEAM RACQUETBALL CO-REC VOLLEYBALL G/F/5 VOLLEYBALL ENTRY DATES-1/17-1/24 
--~ 

----·.~ --~~~-........ __ _ _
~~~~~-_..,..,..,....,,__,_...,.._,·_:'"!<;_----:: 
.....·-~------.......-----....----.......-------------------"':""~
;J • ~ • < J' /!' ' l) ; 5 ~ ol ,;, ' ; I ' --~-..<:.= 
' ' ' .. 

\ I· 
t \ . 
I l' 
\t'f, 
! t'i :r.· 
~ ! 
,, 

i. 
r 
I { 
. r 
i' 


i i 
II! 
ij~
I f 
IIi
dr 
I)} 






SPORTS 
page 16 

Two in a row for Lyons 
Lyons beats PE 12-0 in last IH game in old stadium 
KATHLEEN LOPEZ  The Pyros matched up well against Lyons, but  
Spons Writer  they could not find  a rhythm.  PE bobbled or  
dropped most of their punt and kickoff returns,  
It was the last game held in old Knute Rockne  accounting for poor field position on each of  
stadium. and an intense game it was.  The  their offensive drives.  The Pyros' offense ceo­ 

Women's lnterhall Championship.---------__:__------, tered around their running game. 

Running back Ann Searle was given the hand-off numerous times, and she accounted for a first down and about twenty yards in rushing. 
The Lyons' defense caught on quickly to PE's game plan, stop­ping Searle and keeping the Pyros from getting anything started in the first half. PE mounted a come­
back in the second, with the majority of yardage 
coming from Pyros' quarterback Elizabeth Plum­
mer and Searle as they advanced to the Lyons' 
twenty. But the Lyons' defense stopped PE for three The Observer/Brent Tadsen 
Julie Byrd and her Lyons Hall teammates celebrate their IH win. 
see LYONS I page 11 

game between Lyons and Pasquerilla East was close until the end, when Lyons came out vic­torious 12-0 and defended their Women's Interhall Football title. 
"It was an intense game," stated Lyons' Jenny Layden. "The game was close all the way." 
Lyons came out charged for the game, and made it known on their first offensive possession that they would not relinquish their title easily. They chose to run the option three out of seven plays for large gains. Then, on fourth down, quarterback Julie Byrd found receiver Kerry Callahan open in the end zone for the touchdown. The extra point attempt failed, and Lyons went up 6-0. 

November 10, 7:00p.m. 
• Krug takes over at quarterback see page 14 
Cross Country

at Nebraska November 7, 7:00p.m. 
District Meet, November 11


at a 

• Irish seeded fourth in NCAA women's Men's Baskeball 
SMCSports

vs. Australian National Team 
soccer tournament

November 9, 7:30 p.m. 
Swimming at Calvin College 1:00 p.m. see page 12 
--~ 

at Illinois-Chicago 

with senior co-captain and defensive specialist Brett Hensel filling in for May in emergency situations. 
The 5-9 sophomore from Rancho Santa Fe, California, began this sea­son having played in only 29 of the 127 total games played by the Irish in the 1994 season. However, May has stepped up and with confidence led the offensively diversified Irish this-season. 
"We knew after school got out last year that Shannon [Tuttle] was going to be out and Carey would be the starting setter," Irish head coach Debbie Brown said. 
May gained some experi­ence in the four tourna­ments the Irish competed in last spring, leading the Irish in nearly all but one after Tuttle's shoulder began to 
see MAY I page 10 
Fisher upsets No.I Zahm 
Green Wave defense produces a 'swarm' of its own, en route to 
7-0 blanking ofBats 
TIM MCCONN Spons Writer 

Well, folks, it's over. As everyone has heard at one time or another, "all good things must come to end." The prob­lem for the Zahm Rabid Bats, though, is that it ended one game too early. 
Despite a defense that had allowed only three points all season and a big­play offense, top-rated Zahm could not overcome the upstart Green Wave of Fisher, who posted a stunning 7-0 win. 
This is the same Fisher team that Zahm had defeated 22-0 in the first week of the season. Nobody told that to the guys in green, though. 
Behind a workaholic offensive line, Fisher's offense pounded away, making good on their promise to take it right at the vaunted "Red Swarm". Although they did not rack up tons of rushing yardage, their constant running attack wore Zahm down enough to allow for the one score Fisher needed on the day. 
"We knew they could shut down the run better than other teams, but we weren't worried," said tailback Dayne Nelson. "We just knew that would open up passes, and it showed." 
With time winding down in the half, the game was still scoreless. Zahm's Mike Bailey intercepted a Fisher pass at his own 22-yard line, giving the ball to the Rabid Bats with 1:40 left in the half. After three plays that netted a total of six yards, they faced a fourth and four, on their own 28-yard line. 
Rather than punting, the Zahm coaches decided to go for it in hope of 
see FISHER I page 11 





