
Monday, September 11, 1995• Vol. XXVII No. 16 
TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Law professors 
'Roy Cohn/Jack Smith' premieres 
Godmilow.

Film addresses The film's premiere was fol­lowed up by a roundtable dis­cussion entitled "Epistemology 
move to revoke 
honorary degree gay/lesbian 
of Campus Closets: Multicultur­alism, Catholic Character,By MARY KATE MORTON 
related issues Politicized Scholarship," held
Associate News Editor 
By ETHAN HAYWARD Saturday morning in LaFortune. Student Center's Montgomery.The Office of the Provost recently received a Associate News Editor Theatre.
resolution from the Law School to consider a Godmilow's film describes therevocation of an honorary doctorate of law Notre Dame faculty member 
degree awarded in 1981. Jill Godmilow screened the distortions of character that op­pression produces-in this case
Kurt Waldheim, recipient of the degree over 14 Midwest premiere of her new oppression against homosexu­years ago, had been the Secretary General of the film "Hoy Cohn/Jack Smith" als in the 1950's and '60's. ItUnited Nations for 10 years at the time of his Friday night at the Snite Mu­outlines the opposite methodsaward and was the president of Austria from seum of Art, as a benefit for the 
1986 to 1992. Gender Studies Program, in its the title characters employ in 
dealing with their identities as
Hecent. investigations have shown that joint efforts with Gays and Les­Waldheim served as a lieutenant of the armed 
bians of Notre Dame and Saint homosexuals. Cohn carefully 
hid his orientation behind a
forces of Nazi Germany (Wehrmacht) in Greece Mary's College and Campus 
and the former Yugoslavia. Ministry to keep active their right-wing bully pulpit, while Smith exploited his identity in
According to Law School Professor Joseph P. discussion of the issues raised his films and performance art. 
Bauer, these are the same forces that slaugh­last spring by the GLND/SMC The discussion at the film'stered tens of thousands of Serbs, Jews and gyp­eon troversy. 
premiere as well as that at thesies. At the time of his award, Waldheim was Dean Harold Attridge of the roundtable centered around theSecretary General of the United Nations and later College of Arts & Letters and 
the Department of Communica­issue of being "closeting" and 


tion & Theatre presented 
see DEGREE I page 8 
The Observer/ Kim Kurgan 

Here Comes the Sun 
Natalie Waitkus, a Saint Mary's junior, takes advantage of the good weather to study out on the lawn in front of LeMans Hall. 

see FILM/ page 4 The Observer/ Tom Roland College Dems return to campus after hiatus 
By ETHAN HAYWARD election. Associate News Editor The club has adopted a new charter and is now registered 
Denis William Brogan once with the national College wrote, "Any well-established Democrats organization, an village in the northern Middle arm of the Democratic National West could afford ... a few Committee. Democrats." A flyer handed out at last 
It appears South Bend, and week's activities night reads, Notre Dame in particular, is "The College Democrats is an such a place. After a two-year organization of student hiatus, the College Democrats activists who recruit and train have resurfaced as an official Democrat students for partici­campus organization. pation in all facets of political 
The newly-revitalized club's activism, with special emphasis officers, President Mike Gaglia upon electing Democrats and and Vice President Paul Horn, supporting the legislative goals state that former officers of the Democratic Party." lacked the drive and organiza­Gaglia says his organization's tion to keep the club going. main goal is to increase mem­Gaglia also added that interest bership and keep the club ac-in political organizations tends to drop off after a presidential see DEMS/ page 8 


Survey suggests high campus alcohol consumption 
Editor's note: This is the first of a fit'e-part series examining the use of alcohol on our cam­puses. 
By JAMES BROCKMOLE and KATHLEEN BOWLEY 
News Writers 
Nearly three quarters of Notre Dame students drink reg­ularly according to a r~cent survey conducted by The Ob­servt~r. That number is almost 20 percent higher than thn na­tional average reported in a re­eent survey. 
The informal Observer poll of 200 students asked undergrad­uates to reveal their drinking habits. Hespondents answered six questions related to their al­cohol consumption. 
The Cooperative Institutional IJeseareh Program at the ·uni­versity of California at Los An­gelns' lliglwr Education He­search Institute eonducted sur­veys in 1993 to determine rates of alcohol usage by freshman at highly seleetive universities (a category to which Notre Dame belongs), private universities, and all colleges in general. 

The UCLA study found that 61.8% of freshman at highly selective schools reported themslllves to be beer or liquor drinkers, compared to 58.2% at private colleges and 54.7% na­tionally at all schools. 
Notre Dame students were asked how many days a week they drank and of those days, how many times they "got drunk." Results indicate that 72% of those polled drink regu­larly, once a week or more, while 18% abstain completely. Freshman consume less alcohol than the other classes with 31% being non·drinkers, compared to 38.2% in other highly selec­tive universities determined by the UCLA poll. However, within the sophomore and junior classes, only 18% and 7% respectively do not drink. The percentage climbs back up to 17% with the senior class. 
Forty nine percent of Notre Dame drinkers that participat­ed in the survey get drunk up to two nights per week, while 9% are drunk three days or more per week. Twenty nine percent never drink to get drunk. 
Results also reveal that sick­ness due to excessive alcohol consumption is a common oc­currence on campus as 64% of drinkers have experienced a bad night. 
Students justified heavy drinking in different ways. "I like the element of not being in control," one student said. Another stated that drinking causes an "interesting physical feeling." Although student rea­sons for drinking are predomi­nantly social, several students expressed a need for accep­tance. One person said "it 
see ALCOHOL/ page 4 

0 days 1-2 3-5 

How_many days a week do you drink? 



-

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Monday, September 11, 1995 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

The revised 
SYR 


regulations 
As SYR season 

approaches, we must prepare ourselves for the possible dangers we are destined to en­counter. For the fresh­men who have yet to ex­perience such an event, I recommend that you, Caroline Blum 


especially, pay close attention. Saint Mary's 
1) Upon meeting a Spans Editor blind date, be prepared for the worst. Not only will this procedure hinder you from extreme disappointment, but it might also help you realize right away that no one looks like their dog book picture. (WARNING: Look out for upperclassmen who prescribe a few shots to enhance the appearance of your date.) 
2) When you arrive at your date's room, for the love of God, avoid the jungle juice located in a big metal tub at the party. Although it may look tasty. what you can't see is the skull and crossbones in the reflection of the tub. 
3) Feel free to talk to everyone's date. What matters is not who you came with, but who you end up with. 
4) If you start to notice stares in your di­rection from several members of the party, it is probably because you are not following the strict party regulations about brick-laying. No one likes brick-layers. 
5) Always use the buddy system when trav­eling to the bathroom. Between the two of you, one is bound to remember how to get back to the party room. Also, if it appears that your date has disappeared when you reenter the party room, at least you now have a cool friend to hang out with. 
6) Speaking of bathrooms, ifit has been over thirty minutes since your date has gone to relieve him/herself, you might want to start exploring other options. 
7) If you forget your date's name, a simple shout of the name "Meghan" or "Patrick" is always a great guess. 
8) When you venture into the closet that the actual dance takes place at, feel free to go crazy. Tonight, any moves by John Travolta are both permitted and encouraged. 
9) During the dance, ignore invitations that involve phrases like "Hey, do you feel like coming back to my room and looking at some pictures?" You wouldn't want to miss "Oh What a Night" in order to see a few silly pic­tures. 
10) If by chance you end up at the Dillon SYR, avoid people with oral fixations of the toes. (Trust me on this one). 
11) Do not try to rally the guy "sleeping" in the corner for another beer. He really does not want to be disturbed. 
12) Avoid yager and Mad Dog. You would hate to be labeled as the "kid who puked at the SYR" for your next four years. 
13) Always remember to whip out the red light at 2:00. Although "crashing" may sound like a great idea at the time, you must realize the consequences you will face in the morning. Students can recognize the "walk of shame" after an SYR from over a mile away. 
Through following these careful guidelines, you can count on a great SYR night. If you regret your behavior at the SYR, it is much more polite to use the old "Wow, I do not remember anything about the other night" phrase than to ignore them and develop a sour relationship with what could've been a great friend for the rest of your college life. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Lab Tech Kristi Kolski Katie Kroner Jamie Heisler Mike Schaf 
Accent Sports 
Dan Cichalski Ashleigh Thompson
Rafael Gonzales Dave Bradley Graphics Production 
Tom Roland 
Jana Bruder Viewpoint Kira Hutchinson Mike O'Hara 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
'ER,' 'Frasier,' 'NYPD Blue' win big at 47th Annual 
PASADENA, Calif. 

The NBC medical series "ER" passed its first Emmy checkup with flying colors Sunday -tying two records -while "NYPD Blue" won best drama series and "Frasier" was the top comedy. 
"ER" equaled marks set by "Hill Street Blues" for most wins by a series in one year and by a new series-eight in 1981. 
Showing no signs of sophomore slump, the farcical NBC comedy "Frasier" won five Emmys in all, including best comedy actor for Kelsey Grammer. 
NBC headed into the awards with an edge as the leader in nominations and preliminary trophies given in weekend ceremonies. 
"ER" alone had 23 bids. 
NBC had a total of 96 Emmy nomina­tions, followed by CBS with 91 and cable's Home Box Office with 50. ABC had 42 bids, while Fox Broadcasting Co. had 19. 
Source: Academy of Television Arts & Sciences AP 
Spielberg tops Oprah and Beatles 
NEW YORK 
The Beatles are back on top ... almost. A new documentary and the first of three new music releases, including a song taped by John Lennon in 197 4 that Paul McCartney, George Harrison and Ringo Starr added their voices to this year, will bring the band an estimated $130 million in gross income for 1994-1995, Forbes maga­

zine said. Only director Steven Spielberg and talk-show host Oprah Winfrey surpassed the Beatles in Forbes' ninth annual ranking of best-paid entertainers, released Sunday. It's the Beatles first time on Forbes Top 40 highest-paid entertainers list, a survey that combines entertainers' two-year estimated gross earnings to get a more accurate assessment of overall income. For the second consecutive year, Spielberg reigns as the highest­paid entertainer. The 47-year-old director. who still is raking in the dough from his box-office megabit "Jurassic Park," will make an estimated $285 million in 1994-95. Winfrey, who in 1993 became the first woman to ever top the list, ranked a distant second behind Spielberg, with a combined two-year take of $146 mil­lion. 
Skydiving plane crashes into house 
SHACKLEFORDS, Va. 
A plane carrying at least 10 members of a skydiving 
school crashed into a house and exploded on Sunday. 
killing a man sitting on his back porch and everyone 
aboard. The house caught fire, but authorities said no 
one else living in the row of about 10 houses along a 
woodsy lane in rural Tidewater Virginia was injured. 
Mattie Byrd was lying in bed when she heard the plane 
laboring overhead: "I ... saw the plane in the air, and it 
turned like it wanted to go back the other way. then it 
made a nosedive. "I was assuming it was coming in the 
back door of my house. It sounded like it was going 
through something, and then it went boom. By the time 
we got outside, it had blown and there was fire every­
where." She said her neighbor, Vincent Harris, was 
killed but his son, Vincent Jr.. who is 8 or 9, was playing 
outside and wasn't injured. "Right after the crash, there 
was a couple of people tried to get in there to get him but 
they couldn't. It was all in flames," she said. 

Monday, Sept. 11 Accu-Weather'"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

OHIO 
llndianapon3 no 1 


"ER" NBC 
LEAD ACTOR 
Name here 
'Title of series" Network 
"Title of series" Network 


LEAD ACTRESS 
Name here 
"Title of series" Network 
LEAD ACTRESS 
Name here 
"Title of series" Network 
Mafia plead guilty in poker scheme 
NEW ORLEANS 
Five alleged leaders and associates of the Gambino 
and Genovese organized crime families pleaded guilty to 
conspiracy Saturday in what prosecutors call a Mafia plot 
to infiltrate Louisiana's video poker business. "The gov­
ernment made us an offer we couldn't refuse," said Joel 
Winograd, lawyer for John Cammarano, one of the five. 
The defendants were accused of using at least four front 
companies to distribute video poker machines and siphon 
off profits between 1991 and 1994. People with ties to or­
ganized crime are barred from the gambling business in 
Louisiana. Four others pleaded guilty previously, six 
were scheduled to plead guilty Tuesday and four were to 
go to trial on Sept. 18. "This has broken the back of the 
organized crime family in New Orleans, which means the 
Gulf Coast, too," said Anthony Radosti, head of a private 
anti-crime group called the Metropolitan Crime 
Commission. The case is not related to an FBI investiga­
tion into whether state legislators supported the video 
poker business in exchange for campaign contributions 
and a hidden interest in the industry. No one has been 
charged. In this case, the men were indicted on charges 
of racketeering, mail fraud, wire fraud and conducting 
an illegal gambling business. They could have faced more 
than 100 years in prison and millions of dollars in resti­
tution. 
Chess champions face off for title 
NEW YORK 
Pride is the issue in the World Chess Championship­
along with the crown that Garry Kasparov seized when 
he became the youngest chess titlist in history in 1985. 
In his fifth title defense, Kasparov, 32, faces Viswanathan 
Anand, 25. The winner takes home a cool $1 million; the 
loser gets $500,000. At an opening ceremony Sunday 
atop the World Trade Center, Anand won the right to 
play with the advantage of the white pieces in the first 
round Monday. "It's good for Vichy. He gets a chance to 
probe Kasparov's defenses," said American Grandmaster 
Max Dlugy. "He has a chance of delivering the first 
blow." Kasparov, who lives in Moscow, has never lost a 
one-on-one series. But if Anand can survive his early 
onslaught, experts say he has a chance at toppling the 
champ. The Professional Chess Association 
Championship employs a best-of-20-game format, with 
the winner the first player to get 10.5 points. A win 
scores one point and a draw a half point. 


The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Monday, Sept. 11. 

""T""T" .............. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1995 AccuWaather. Inc. 
PtltSSUffl 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUOY 

Atlanta  86  66  Dallas  86  64  New Orleans 95  68  
Baltimore  87  70  Denver  72  50  New York  76  64  
Boston  68  57  Los Angeles 83  64  Philadelphia 85  67  
Chicago  69  48  Miami  89  77  Phoenix  99  81  
Columbus  74  62  Minneapolis 72  42  St. Louis  74  61 

Via Associated Press Graph/csNet 0 1995 AccuWeather, Inc . 
••• ...,. ................. -"' -~,-_ ...... -.... L4. :. ..... ~I. &_I .. I I .a 
••••• aaa I ..................... ._ ....... -. .......... ..__. 
Monday, September 11, 1995 
The Observer • NEWS page 3 



Gingrich cautions Powell 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications: 
Photo Editor 
Please submit a one page statement of intent and resume to John Lucas, Editor-in-Chief, by Wednesday, September 13. Call 1-4542 with any questions. 

(tMPUStV11NIS1RY 

nees, but it's important they make sure their political battles don't disrupt the Republican agenda on tax cuts, and welfare and Medicare reform. 
"If we allow ourselves to get . pulled apart in the next 30 or 40 days, we're going to look like idiots and frankly, we're not going to elect anybody next year to the presidency and we might lose the House and Sen­ate," he said. 
Gingrich said the Medicare reform package to be an­nounced by House Republicans this week would maintain the 
31.5 percent share seniors must now pay for Medicare Part B costs and impose a means test for senior couples earning $125,000 or more. 
"We may well phase out starting at about $125,000 for a couple the subsidy from the government for the Part B pre­mium." 
Under current law, the se­niors' share of Part B. the por­tion of Medicare that pays doc­tor bills and lab tests, would drop to 25 percent. 
Democrats say keeping the current percentage could mean the doubling of premiums, now at $46.10 a month. 

Northeast Neighborhood undergoes renovation 
By SARAH TAYLOR 
News Writer 

Call in the Avon lady, because the Northeast Neighborhood Association is getting a face-lift. 
The neighborhood's old firestation #7, where the ser­vice organization has been lo­cated for over thirty years, is receiving a complete renova­tion, inside and out. Built in 1904, the building needed structural repairs and an overall freshening-up. 
The Northeast Neighborhood Association is an agency affili­ated with the Center for Social Concerns. Notre Dame stu­dents often volunteer their time at the center to help needy families in the South Bend community. 
The enlargement and reno­vation will allow the associa­tion to accommodate more programs and more partici­pants. The facilities already include a food bank, clothing bank, tutoring programs, and tax clinic. The refurbishing will provide a larger eating room, auditorium, more office space, and a computer room for children. 
Renovations will allow the association to continue toward its goals, according to Renelda Robinson, director of the asso­ciation. 
"Our main purpose is to serve the community in social concerns and to provide finan­cial and social programs for low-income needy families in the northeast area [of South Bend]." Robinson said. 
The restoration project has already cost the association $150,000. According to Anne Bockenkamp, who is in charge of fundraising, an additional $25,000 must be raised to complete the renovation. 
To help raise the needed funds, the Sunnyside Presbyte­rian Church and Social Min­istries is sponsoring a pasta dinner this Friday, September 15, from 5-7 p.m. The supper will be held at St. Peter's United Church of Christ, 915 
N. Ironwood Avenue in South Bend. Proceeds go to the Northeast Neighborhood Center. All are encouraged to attend. 
By JIM ABRAMS 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
House Speaker Newt Gingrich urged retired Gen. Colin Powell to give up any idea of an inde­pendent candidacy, saying 
Sunday that having a ptesident out­side the cur­rent party system is "a joke" that could lead to disaster. 


Gingrich, in Gingrich an interview on NBC's "Meet the Press," also revealed some details of the GOP plan to restore fiscal integrity to Medicare, including a proposal to apply means-test­ing to couples earning more than $125,000. 
Powell, in his new autobiog­raphy, says he is comfortable with neither party and the time may be ripe for the rise of a third party to represent the po­litical center in America. He makes no commitment to lead such a party. 
Gingrich, R-Ga., strongly urged him against that course. 
"I think it's frankly in the long run a joke," he said. 
"This country is a party coun­try.... There is no magic independence of people who are just able to stand up and magically produce a govern­ment." 
An independent presidency would be "a disaster for this country," he said. 
If Powell, former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, ran as a Republican, he would imme­diately become the chief rival to GOP front-runner Sen. Bob Dole, Gingrich said. 
Gingrich, like Powell, says he will make no announcement of his own presidential intentions until the end of the year. He has stated that he would take a pass if Powell were to run as a Republican, but in any case is leaning against entering the race. 
"But I think that there is frankly just enough of a desire for somebody who is aggressive and articulate and willing to lay out boldly where we need to go that I can't quite close the door at this stage," he said. 
Gingrich said it's inevitable for there to be some sniping among the declared GOP nomi-




Clinton renews welfare fight 
ByTOMRAUM 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

President Clinton appealed to Congress to "go the final mile" on Saturday by burying differ­ences on welfare reform quickly to keep it from being engulfed by election-year politics. 
But his call for reaching "common ground and higher ground" was laced with sharp partisan attacks on Republi­cans, including indirect but clear swipes at Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole and House 
INTER-FAITH CAMPUS BIBLE STUDY 
Every Tuesday Evening One Hour, 7:00 -8:00 p.m. Effective September 12, 1995 
The Conference Room of Campus Ministry Office Badin Hall 
Fr. AI D'Alonzo, CSC-Director 
Bring your own Bible or one wi(( be provided 
For more information, call631-5242 or 631-5955 
ALL STUDENTS ARE WELCOME! 
Speaker Newt Gingrich. 
"This is a time to deliver for the American people, not to pander to extremists," he said in his weekly radio address. "We can't Jet welfare reform die at the hands of ideological extremism or presidential poli­tics or budget politics." 
Republicans also used their weekly radio rebuttal to focus on the welfare debate now rag­ing in the Senate. 
Sen. Rick Santorum of Penn­sylvania, delivering the GOP re­sponse, asserted that "the Congress and the president simply cannot wait any longer to reform the failed welfare sys­tem." 
He said the current system "has consigned millions of lower-income and disadvan­taged Americans to a life that begins and ends on a dead-end street of irresponsibility, pover­ty and dependency." 
The Senate is in the process of considering a welfare over­haul measure and several key votes are expected in the com­ing week. Senate Republicans are deeply divided over terms of the final legislation, and no particular version appears to have majority support. 

The House-passed version would ban benefits for mothers younger than 18 with children born out of wedlock and for children born to a parent al­ready receiving assistance. 
Clinton and congressional Democrats claim conservative Republicans are trying to hold welfare reform hostage to ex­treme political views. 
"For too long, American peo­ple have been frustrated by demands for ideological purity, by politicians who put their per­sonal ambitions first," Clinton said in an apparent reference primarily to Dole. 
The Kansas Republican, the leading GOP presidential con­tender, has been pressing his own version of welfare reform legislation. Democrats have ac­cused him of going out of his way to court the GOP's right wing. 
EARN EXTRA MONEY AS A GRADUATE OF THE H & R BLOCK INCOME TAX COURSE 
Thousands of people learn how to prepare Income tax returns from H&R Block and then earn money as income tax preparers. H&R Block, the world's largest Income tax preparation service, offers Its Income Tax Course starting the week of September 11. Morning, afternoon, evening, and weekend classes are avail­able. 
Experienced instructors teach tax law theory, and applica­tion. Classroom discussion and practice problems pro­vide students with a thorough understanding of each tax topic included in the course. Students learn how to handle increasingly complex income tax situations as the course progresses. 
Ideal for people who want to 
increase their tax knowledge, the course teaches students how to save money on their taxes and also prepares them for a rewarding career. 
One course fee includes all textbooks and supplies. Graduates receive Certificates of Achievement and continu­ing education units (CEUs). Qualified graduates of the course may be offered job Interviews with H&R Block but are under no obligation to accept employment. 
Those Interested In more Information about the H&R Block Income Tax Course may call 
1-800-TAX-2000 
or259-6925 
AC0039 

page 4 The Observer • NEWS Monday, September 11, 1995 

Alcohol 
continued from page 1 
makes you feel more comfort­able in a social situation you normally wouldn't," while an­other explained that "it takes away the inhibitions." One stu­dent claimed that it's "all there is to do on campus," and a stu­dent said that drinking gives him "more courage to talk to girls. " 
If good times, social accep­timce, arid a sense of courage are contained in a can of beer or a screwdriver, which is the 
Fil01 
continued from page 1 
the Notre Dame administra­tion's decision not to recognize GLND/SMC as an official cam­pus organization. 
Professor Glenn Hendler of the English Department said he found it heartening that such a free and open discussion of campus closeting was held at the beginning of this academic year. He said the film raised issues about how everyone per­forms his or her identity, and that he is glad that the contro­versy has attracted several prestigious academics to the debate. 
"The rest of the country is watching Notre Dame," says Hendler. 
One of the academics at­tracted by the debate was Eve Ksofsky Sedgwick of Duke Uni­versity, who spoke at Satur­day's forum. She stated that Cohn's conception of differing public and private lives was implausible. 
"The public and private are all over each other, and a fig­ure like Roy Cohn depicts that so graphically. (Coming out of the closet) is puncturing the air out of a room full of people who think they know things about you that you don't know about beverage of choice? Students were surveyed regarding their preference between beer and hard liquor. Those who drink revealed that beer is the most popular party beverage on campus, winning 57% of the vote. Thirty three percent pre­ferred hard liquor. Since the legal drinking age is twenty· one, 43% of the underage stu­dent population have managed to obtain fake identification. Fifty seven percent do not drink or must consult other means for acquiring alcohol, such as having a student of legal age purchase alcohol for them. 
yourself," said Sedgwick. 
Another keynote speaker was George Chauncey of the Uni­versity of Chicago. Chauncey addressed the growing preva­lence of college courses examining gay and lesbian issues. 
"I felt like I saw the world change before my eyes.· There was a sudden, huge growth in the field," he said. 
Professor Carlos Jerez-Far­ran of the Department of Ro­mance Language & Literature called this weekend's forum a "major event". He said it was an opportunity to explore in detail the effects homophobia has on people and that it per­petuated the long overdue intellectual dialogue on homosexuality. 
Jerez-Farran also said the events helped "illustrate the operations of power in relation to marginality." 
Professor Daniel Sheerin, chair of the Department of ClassicaVOriental Language & Literature, said the film "opened whole new worlds" for him and shifted his thinking on the issue of recognizing GLND/SMC. 
"People both inside of the 
closet and outside of the closet 
suffer in an atmosphere such 
as this," he said. 
The South Bend Tribune con­tributed to this article. 

Do you have a fake ID? IINo Yes Freshmen Sophomores Juniors 



22o/o 78o/o 50°/o 50°/o 63o/o 30°/o 
Have you ever been sick due to excess alcohol consumption? IINo Yes Freshmen Sophomores 


53°/o47o/o 


w~­
direct from COUNTY GALWAY IRELAND will provide 
Wa a Colorful show of Traditional Irish Musi~ Celli . r• ., Dance, Folk Singing and 
TASTE 
Storytelling

OF IRELAND... 

Sep.tember 14th -7:30 p.m. 
NctuD~J~~ 







Surprise your folks. 
When you stay awake in class, you tend to learn more. (Unless you have an uncanny talent of learning through osmosis.) So don•t let fatigue get in the way of your A, Revive with Vivarin®. One tablet has the same amount of caffeine as about two cups of coffee. . uu_.,.....--···~·'"·c-9 
Ad't•· . t f H th' . 'bl 'f f . Eil~1~:l\_
I

n 1 s JUS as sa e. ey, any 1ng 1s poss1 e, 1 you re up or 1t. -.o;.;; ,.";:,......-~,.,.,
1 


C"''SmtthKima Be11ch•m ©1995 ~UConsumer Healthcare 
Use only as directed. 

Revive with Vivadn~ 
Monday, September 11, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Gay soldiers challenge military Luis destroys island, 
By KIM I. MILLS They also cast doubt on the cantly from the rate under the Associated Press Clinton administration's claim old policy, according to figures 
dozens still missing 
that people would no longer be provided by the Defense De­WASHINGTON discharged from the military partment. 
Lt. Paul Thomasson fired off 
a letter to his boss -the admi­
ral enforcing the Navy's policy 
against homosexuals -days 
after President Clinton's "don't 
ask, don't tell" policy went into 
effBct. "I am gay," he wrote. 
Despite Thomasson's stellar 
1 0-year record and the support 
of his commanding officer, the 
Navy moved to discharge him. 
Thomasson fought back in 
court, challenging the policy as 
unconstitutional. His case goes 
before the 4th Circuit Court of 
Appeals in Alexandria, Va.. this 
week -the first challenge of 
the Clinton policy to reach the 
federal appeals court level. 
A second challenge to the pol­
icy -Able vs. Perry is slated .to be argued before the 2nd Circuit Court of Appeals later 
this year. 
The two cases illustrate how 
different judges can hear simi­
lar arguments on the same is­
sue and reach opposite conclu­
sions. 
merely for being gay or lesbian. 
At the crux of the new policy is the presumption that some­one who says he or she is ho­mosexual would engage in ho­mosexual activity, which is pro­hibited. To remain in uniform, openly gay members must prove they won't have gay sex. 
So far, four people have "rebutted the presumption" that because they are gay they would engage in homosexual activity, according to court pa­pers. But "two effectively re­canted and said they were con­fused and not gay," said C. Dixon Osburn, co-executive di­rector of the Servicemembers Legal Defense Network, which advises gay and lesbian ser­vicemembers and helps them find lawyers. 
Pentagon officials were un­able to say how many service­members have attempted to challenge the theory. But the discharge rate under the new policy has not changed signifi-
Lawrence Korb, assistant de­fense secretary for manpower under President Reagan, now a scholar at the Brookings Insti­tution, called the new policy orlly "marginally different" from the old. 
"In some cases, it may even be worse because you get into the whole question of freedom of speech," he said. 
It may ultimately be up to the justices on the Supreme Court to decide if the policy is uncon­stitutional. 
"I think what you've got now is three for. three against and three in the middle," Korb said, identifying the swing votes as Justices David Souter, Sandra Day O'Connor and Anthony Kennedy. 
Korb, who used to enforce the old policy on homosexuals, has appeared as an expert wit­ness on behalf of gay servicemembers in several high-profile court challenges. 
Lt! Sulon cl~ I'Anu'tit.1 The Sulnn of Friendship 
THREE QUESTIONS ONE ANSWER 
BECOME A MEMBER OF 
THE SALON OF FRIENDSHIP 
llave you been abroad on the Notre Dmne lnten1ational Prog~·a~n? A1·e you taking F~ench or Spanish? Can you speak French o~ Span1sh? A•·e you wll_llng ~o make mor~ fnends fron1 all over the world? Would you hke to share yourself With fnends and enJOY so1ne exotic cuisine while practicing to speak a language? 
Are you concerned about the ways of politics in your ow•~ country? In <;>ther countr~es around the world? Do you have any wisdom you would hke to sha•·e w1th others wtth identical or differ·ent concerns? A1·e you wear·y of violence as a way of pursuing peace or restoring justice? 
Are you willing to improve your ability to practice_ French/Spanish. and enhance your academic pcrforrnance in these areas? Would you hke to be part of a ':'ew ~nd genu1ne experience of friendsh_ip and humanness"? Do you want to supply a g.ra1n ot hope to the hopeless. lend your vo1ce to the vo•celess, and en"lpower the powerless? 
If your ansvver to any of these qu_estions i~ y~s 
Please be part of a unique experience about to start here •n ou•· own Un•ve•·sJty of Notre Dan1e. Please join The Salon of Friendship/Le Salon de l'An•itie/El Salon de Atnistad. 
Rt::AU OUR FOUNDING QOCUMENT TO KNOW MORE OF WHAT THE SALON OF ERJENDSHIP IS ALL ABOUT 
Venue: Hesburgh Library Lounge 
Time: 7:00---8:00 PM Date: Monday, September 11, 1995 
To register for the inforn~ation meeting o•· to become a n1cJnbc•· please call Paula Shannon at 634-2824 or Marlon Vander at 634-3915 
The Salon of Friendship 1:.."/ St.llt'in de A111i.\·tat.l 
By ANDREW SELSKY 
Associated Press 
SANJUAN, Puerto Rico 

In its rampage through the C,aribbean, Hurricane Luis tore apart more than houses, yachts and lives. It ripped an island in two. 
As the center of Luis passed over Barbuda on Tuesday, it churned up 10-foot waves that breached a narrow inlet and severed a small northeast sliver of the island, part of the nation of Antigua and Barbuda. 
While Barbuda's plight was perhaps most dramatic, the is­lands around it also were pounded by one of the most powerful storms of the century. The official death toll stood at 16 on Saturday, and could rise. 
On St. Martin, the hardest-hit island, medical student William Jakobleff described how a 40­foot wave exploded through a wall of windows into the third­floor restaurant of the Great Bay Beach Hotel, where 200 guests had taken refuge. 
"It sounded like the end of the world," said Jakobleff. of Yonkers, N.Y. "People were screaming and praying. We were just petrified for our lives." 
Luis was not expected to hit the U.S. mainland, but the Na­tional Weather Service warned of heavy surf and coastal flood­ing from Florida to southern New England. On Fire Island, east of New York City, waves gouged out huge stretches of beach, toppling a three-story house toppled into the surf. 
The storm accelerated Satur­day. and at 8 p.m. EDT was 205 miles northwest of Bermuda, moving northeast at 25 mph with maximum sus­tained winds of 100 mph. A tropical storm warning was posted for Bermuda. 
The Daily Observer newspa­per on Antigua reported Satur­day that the coral reef that makes up Barbuda was cut into six pieces. This could not im­mediately be confirmed. 
The storm wrecked 95 per­cent of the buildings on the is­land, and battered its infant tourist industry. All the hotels on Barbuda, 280 miles east of 
Hurricane Luis 


Scurr;e: Accu-Weather, tnc.  AP/Carl Fox  
Puerto Rico,  were  severely  
damaged.  

The town of Codrington, where all of Barbuda's 1,500 residents live, was flooded, and sea water contaminated the water supply, the newspaper reported. 
The island was trying to de­velop a tourist industry. espe­cially for snorkellers and skin­divers attracted to the 60 ship­wrecks on the reef. 
On Antigua, 65 percent of the buildings were destroyed. The 
U.S. Navy and British Royal Marines provided generators and thousands of gallons of water to get the hospital func­tioning and reopen the dam­aged airport. 
"Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous" host Robin Leach, who has a home in Antigua, co­ordinated an aid shipment car­rying 66,000 pounds of relief supplies from AmeriCares, based in New Canaan, Conn. 
St. Martin, only days ago a pristine vacation spot for wealthy tourists, was a jumble of ripped-apart yachts, house­boats and shantytowns. 
Telephone and power poles toppled by 130-mph winds and nine-foot surf were still down. Hundreds of yachts and house­boats were tossed across piers and beaches. Jetties and air­ports were trashed, roads washed away and trees up­rooted. 
Firefighters from Holland ar­rived Saturday and searched for bodies in the flattened shan­page 6 



The Observer • BOSNIA NEWS Monday, September 11, 1995 





U.S. warship launch cruise missiles at Serbs 
By LIAM McDOWALL 
Associated Press 
SARAJEVO 
A U.S. warship in the Adriatic Sea fired 13 Tomahawk cruise missiles at Bosnian Serb anti­aircraft missile sites Sunday in northwestern Bosnia, NATO and U.S. military officials said. 

The effect of the attack by the cruiser USS Normandy wasn't immediately known, said NATO spokesman Maj. Panagiotis Theodorakidis. 
Minutes after the missiles were launched, a wave of FA­15 jet fighters took off from the aircraft carrier USS Roosevelt, carrying 2,000-pound "smart b.omhs,". according to NATO officials in Naples, Italy. 
There was no immediate 
word on their target. 

It was the first use of cruise missiles in NATO's 12-day-old campaign to force the Serb rebels to pull their artillery and other heavy we~pons away from Sarajevo, and to ease their pressure on other U.N. "safe areas" such as Tuzla. 
The Tomahawks were fired at Serb surface-to-air missile sites in the Banja Luka area of northwestern Bosnia, Navy spokesman Lt. Conrad Chun said in Washington. Tomahawks were last used in 1993, when the Navy fired 26 of them at Baghdad, Iraq. 
Air Force Capt. Scott O'Grady was shot down by a Serb mis­sile near Banja Luka on June 2, while he was on a NATO mis­sion to enforce the han on flights over Bosnia. He was res­cued six days later. 
"If we're proving anything to the Serbs, it's that we can have accurate strikes at all times and all weather and with no pilots," said Capt. Jim Mitchell, the chief spokesman for NATO. 
He said there could be more attacks if NATO pilots still con­sider Serb anti-aircraft systems to be a threat. Mitchell said. 
"If we need to use the Tomahawks again we will," he said in Naples. 
Also Sunday, Bosnian Serbs shelled the U.N.-controlled Tuzla airport and NATO retali­ated swiftly with airstrikes, destroying rebel positions near the northeastern city. 
In an attempt to end the standoff with the Serbs, 


Pope prays for war victims 
By DANIEL). WAKIN thers, in tears," he said. Let They waved flags from their Associated Press the "mute language of their countries and used umbrellas 
deaths" turn the warmakers to to shield themselves from the 
LORETO, Italy reconciliation, he said. bright sun. 
With the Adriatic Sea glitter­On the second day of the ing behind him and an ocean pope's trip to Loreto to meet In his traditional message af­of youth stretching in front, with young people from across ter Mass on Sunday, the pope Pope John Paul II paid homage Europe, the fighting in former said he saw "great hope" for a Sunday to young people killed Yugoslavia continued to occu­more just world in the "lines of in the Bosnian war. py his thoughts. The Croatian action" emerging from the 
The fighting continues to coast lies just 80 miles across U.N. conference on women in devastate homes and schools the turquoise sea. Beijing. and "transform what were Police officials estimated the The Vatican delegation has quiet places of work and living crowd of pilgrims at 400,000. charged European countries at into cemeteries, where young They stood in a huge concave the conference with opposing people above all are buried," field before the altar, which the traditional family and the pope said during a Mass was covered with a white plas­motherhood. outside Loreto, a city dedicated tic half-dome. The weekend trip to Loreto to a shrine to the Virgin Mary. Many had spent the night af­began a busy period of trips · "We krieel down before the ter a Saturday evening vigil of for history's most-traveled tombs of so many young peo­music, song and dance pope. On Thursday, he heads ple, with their mothers and fa-presided over by the pontiff. to Africa for a six-day visit. 
President Jacques Chirac of 
France said Sunday he demanded NATO suspend its 
..,.,,;;.,:;,;:.:r==-:.....:.;..;___,_.,..,.~.;;..;;.;:,;:.;:;.:~-=--.., attacks for several hours to let the Serbs agree to withdraw their guns. He didn't say when the suspension would take effect. 

Despite morning cloud cover, NATO warplanes also carried out airstrikes Sunday in other parts of Bosnia, said Franco Veltri, a NATO spokesman in Naples, Italy. 
NATO used cruise missiles because of their accuracy and because they can operate in all types of weather,. said Mitchell. He said using them also reduced the risk to NATO pilots. 
Mitchell said the decision to their heavy weapons from the use the missiles did not repre­
12 1/2-mile exculsion zone 
sent a change in the mission around Sarajevo. 
being carried out by NATO and 
Bosnian Serb commander 
the United Nations, nor in the Gen. Ratko Mladic reportedlytargets being attacked. 
said Saturday that he would not A NATO plane, believed to be pull back the guns that ring the 
an unmanned surveillance 
capital. He argued that it would 
plane, came under sustained 
allow Bosnian government
fire from Bosnian Serb anti-air­forces to move in. 
craft guns near Poljine, north­Following a telephone conver­east of Sarajevo, hut wasn't hit, 
sation with Chirac, Bosnian 
said Maj. Guy Vinet, a U.N. 
President Alija Izethegovic,
spokesman. 

under apparent Western pres­Earlier Sunday, the Belgrade­sure, gave guarantees that his based news agency Tanjug troops would not launch an quoted Bosnian Serb officials as offensive in the Sarajevo region 
saying NATO warplanes had if the Serbs withdrew their 
been in action several times 
heavy weapons. 

overnight in the region around 
Chirac said the NATO 
Banja Luka in northwestern 
airstrikes would continue if the 
Bosnia. 

Serbs refuse to bow to 
Since Aug. 30, NATO has car­demands. "We will not weaken 
ried out heavy attacks against a vis-a-vis the Bosnian Serbs who 
broad array of Serb targets 
are the aggressors," he said. 
across Bosnia, including ammu­
Igor Ivanov, Russia's first nition depots and command 
deputy foreign minister, was and communication centers. 
quoted by Moscow's ITAR-Tass 
NATO and the United Nations 
news agency as saying that have been trying to force Mladic had no plans to pull
Bosnian Serbs to withdraw 
back his weapons. 

ARTHUR ANDERSEN ATTENTION JUNIORS AND SENIORS MAJORING IN FINANCE, ACCOUNTING AND COMPUTER APPLICATIONS The Finance Club is sponsoring a reception in conjunction with Arthur Andersen's Specialty Consulting practice to discuss career and internship opportunities in the consulting profession. Arthur Andersen offers consulting careers in the following areas: • Litigation Services • Corporate Finance Consulting • Corporate Recovery Services Government Contracts• • Business Fraud Risk Services Consulting • Business Consulting • Computer Risk Management (Business Systems and Environmental Services • Operational Consulting) Join us TODAY, Monday, September 11th at the Alumni/Senior Club at 5:30pm for a presentation to learn more about a career as a consultant. Dress is casual. Pizza will be served at the conclusion. We hope to see you there.  

----~·---~ 
--·-----~---­
Monday, September 11, 1995 The Observer • PACKWOOD RESIGNATION page 7 

Diaries shed light on Packwood's indiscretions 
By JIM DRINKARD Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Sen. Bob Packwood wrote his own headline for the behind­the-scenes dealings with lobby­ists that helped lead to his downfall: "Republican Fat Cat Buys off Senator with Job to Senator's Wife." 

WASHINGTON 

GOP presidential hopeful Sen. Bob Dole denied reports Saturday that he lost an arguw ment with Democrats over whether Sen. Bob Packwood would be allowed to remain in otnce for 90 days after his res­ignation last week. 
Dole, R-Kan., made a. cour­tesy call to Sen. Thomas Daschle, D·S.D., over the mat­ter. but never discussed 90 days. he said Saturday on CN· N's "Evans & Novak." 
"We had a very frank discussion. We both agreed we 
That diary entry, dated Dec. ings would have to go to a pub­10, 1990, is part of a rare lic trial and the arrangements glimpse into the backroom con­he had made with lobbyists and nections among money, politics political backers to reduce his and lobbyists that usually are alimony payments would be­only whispered about on come known, resulting in head­Capitol Hill, if they are men­lines like the one he wrote. tioned at all. The Justice Department ear­
The Oregon Republican had lier this year declined to prose­not slept the night before, wor­cute Packwood for soliciting ried that his divorce proceed-jobs for his former wife from 
needed 
some time to wrap Up --was somewhat ungracious of these affairs, figure out what's . Democrats to demand that he going on. pack up. And I think 5 do so, Dole said. he'd like to have 60 days but}#~( "I mean, I could cite some he got three weeks." ' -·-casef.l where w~ had people_.. 
Packwood announced who had be(!p convlcted ot~ resignation Thursda~. r ffll9A~-~s.9n ~be o · · · · · ()~. than face almosft' ce ........ -·-· the atsle~~; he said. . .. at e.xpulsion because of a.U~g!,\~;qp there :was a sf¥$:'llo~th de a~ in· · t10ns of sexual and ethical· handling an expluston heanng misconduct. on Sen. Harrif.lon Williams 
Jr., 
: _....•.•.•. a New Jersey Democrat' who 
The Oregon Republican, whp~i', eventually resigned and went stepped down as chairmanof to prison fo:r Jlis I;'Ole l the Senate Finance Commi~~~la,< ,t\})S9tm bribery stin~J. -. · on Friday, said he wiU lea:v~<. Pole sald he disagrees Congress on Oct. 1. u, /othe:t.Republicans who believe 
It wasn't hard to get Pack.: y,the Senate-Ethics Committee wood to leave quickly, but it ···treated. Packwood unfairly. 
1Mf" ·f.¥~.. 

more schools than you ~ere. 

It's everywhere you -want to be 
«:>Visa U.S.A. Inc. 1995 

the lobbyists. 
Yet the diaries provide un­
usual insights into how lobby­
ists and business executives 
sometimes exploit personal 
connections inside the Capitol 
to benefit their own interests ­
and how they reciprocate to keep friendly politicians in power. Excerpts were released · last week by the Senate Ethics 
Committee. 
In one blunt entry, Packwood 
wrote that Ronald Crawford, a 
lobbyist with the firm FIP Re­
search Associates, was helpful 
to him in raising money from 
Washington political action 
committees "because much of 
his income is dependent on his 
relationship with me. He has 
got a vested interest in my stay­
ing in office." 
In another. Packwood re­
counted a 1990 dinner conver­
sation with Crawford in which 
the lobbyist offered to put up 
$7,500 a year to help support 
Packwood's wife, Georgie, after 
their marriage broke up. 
"If you're chairman of the 
Finance Committee, I can prob­
ably double that," he quoted 
Crawford as saying. Packwood, 
who at the time was a senior 
minority member of the tax-writing panel, later told the Ethics Committee the remark was meant as a joke. 
Packwood's entries under­score that access to the power­ful is the commodity that nets lobbyists their six-figure salaries. 
Once, he wrote, he let a group of officials from the American Iron and Steel Institute into his office only because Crawford was their lobbyist. Another time, Crawford came to Packwood's office with a prospective client after explaining, "People hear· that you're tough to get to, and they know I can get to you." Packwood wrote that he responded, "Well, that's a happy relationship for all of us." 
And on Sept. 13, 1989, Pack­wood recorded: "Ron Crawford was in. He had a special prob­lem involving the transfer of partnership properties.... what its tax consequences are. He said his client was Shell Oil and this was very, very important to him personally. He said, 'I know how much you hate the oil companies.' I said, 'Ron, I still hate the oil companies but I'll do you a favor."' 
Crawford, in a deposition be­fore the ethics panel, said he didn't offer Georgie Packwood a job based on any request from the senator. but said he had considered hiring her part­time. 
He acknowledged that his contacts with Packwood and his former aides were important to his lobbying business. 
"A lot of the former staffers are sprinkled throughout the administration," he said. An annual party for Packwood as­sociates at his home "is just an attempt to enhance my own business opportunities through those people, contacts, what­ever they might be," Crawford added. 
Two of Packwood's job solici­tations for his former wife un­derscored the importance of personal relationships forged when lobbyists begin their ca­reers as congressional aides. 
Steven R. Saunders, who rep­resents Japan's Mitsuibishi Corp. in Washington, worked for Packwood for four years on Capitol Hill; Tim Lee, owner of an Oregon freight logistics com­pany and a major Packwood fund raiser, once was an intern for Packwood. 
Saunders had an interest in a patent dispute between his em­ployer and a U.S. competitor that had landed in Congress' lap, the Ethics Committee found. Lee, although not a lob­byist, had an interest in legisla­tion to overturn a Supreme Court decision that could have hurt his trucking business, the panel said. 
Most of those Packwood ap­proached agreed immediately to his requests to provide in­come to Georgie Packwood, the report shows. 
Bill Furman, president of an Oregon company that makes and leases rail cars and con­tainers, immediately offered to provide $40,000 or $50,000 a year when he heard Mrs. Packwood was worried about money, the diaries state. 
Packwood notes that Furman was "eternally appreciative to me... for what I did for him in '86 with the transition rules," a package of tax provisions to benefit certain industries. 
In testimony to the panel, Packwood later denied that he connected the job offer in his own mind with previous legisla­tive favors he had done for Furman's company. 
-~--~ ~--------~ -~---------~--------~-~-----.. 
r 
page 8 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, September 11, 1995 
New Protestant leader eschews peace offerings 
By SHAWN POGATCHNIK Associated Press 
BELFAST, Northern Ireland 

A day into his new job direct­ing Northern Ireland's biggest party, Ulster Unionist leader David Trimble said Saturday he wouldn't negotiate with IRA supporter"s even if they start disarming. "You cannot let people off the hook just because they make a purely symbolic gesture and hand in a few weapons," Trimble told The Associated Press. 
"The reality remains that Sinn Fein-IRA would be con­stantly threatening a return to violence if they don't get what they want." 
Degree 
continued from page 1 
became president of his native Austria in 1986. 
This past May, a legion of Law School professors, lead by Bauer, began the long process of attempting to rescind this honorary degree. 
"I feel personally that the University ought not be in the position ·or awarding an hon­orary degree to a man who was a Nazi party member, who fought for the Nazis in World War II, at least whose unit was involved in the execution of thousands of people," said Bauer. 
According to Assistant Dean of the Law School, Patricia Leonard, a "substantial major­ity of law professors" voted on May 16, 1995 to support the press for a revocation. Presently, the resolution has been forwarded to Timothy O'Meara in the Office of the Provost, where it awaits further action. 
"It has reached me, but no action has been taken on it at this time, " stated O'Meara. Should O'Meara decide that it is an issue for the Board of Trustees, the resolution could be presented to them at their O.ctober 2Q meeting, where the Trustees would consider the vote and the request that the degree be revoked. 
Bauer has stated that the 
university was not at fault for 
bestowing the degree on Wald­
heim in the first place, since the 
information about his back­
ground did not surface until 

The hard-liner's unexpected victory Friday makes the prospect of negotiations be­tween pro-British Protestants and Sinn Fein, the Irish Repub­lican Army's political ally, more remote than ever. 
A majority of more than 800 members of the Ulster Unionist party's ruling council picked him over four fellow members of British Parliament. 
Their decision comes against the backdrop of deadlock in Anglo-Irish relations over the importance of "decommission­ing" IRA weapons, and grow­ing Protestant suspicions that Britain will retreat from this principle as it has on others to sustain the past year's truce. 
much later. It was not so with the Vatican, who conferred a papal knighthood on Waldheim in 1994 for "his work on behalf of human rights during his U.N. regime." Stated Professor Bauer, "I find the decision of the Vatican troubling since, in 1994, they did have all the in­formation on Waldheim." 
When the Vatican honored Waldheim with this knighthood, a six man commission of inter­national historians already had found Waldheim's involvement with Nazi Germany question­able. 
Although the extent of Waldheim's knowledge and the depth of his entanglement with the Nazi party are unclear, news reports stated that he was "excellently informed" as an intelligence officer for Nazi Germany, despite the fact that he has not been linked directly to any atrocities. 
However, Waldheim was placed on a watch list by the United States government in 1987, as an undesirable alien in light of his war record. In spite of these investigations and their fmdings, Waldheim refus­es to apologize for his part in the Nazi army. 
Professor Bauer believes that the resolution provides the Uni­versity with the opportunity to send a message to the world. 

"As the leading Catholic Uni­versity in the United States, we are in the position to send a powerful moral message that, even 50 years later, the crimes against humanity that occurred before and during World War II are not forgotten or forgiven." 
The South Bend Tribune con-

Tuesday, September 12th 5-7 pm Lafortune Student Center Ballroom Come meet approved University vendors who can show you the latest imprinted products. 
Meet vendors who have products you can sell at your football concession stand. 
Meet vendors who can help you with your fundraising events. 
Free food samples! 



Astronauts recover satellite 
By MARCIA DUNN Associated Press 

CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. 
Endeavour's astronauts chased and recovered a solar­science satellite Sunday that was spinning and facing the wrong way because of an ap­parent power problem. 
NASA will not know whether the telescopes on the Spartan satellite collected any data until Endeavour returns to Eartlr next_ week and is unloaded. 
Commander David Walker and his crew discovered that the satellite had shut down au­tomatically when they pulled up to retrieve it two days after releasing it. 
Walker was forced to steer Endeavour around the satel­lite. As the two craft zoomed around Earth at 5 miles per second, he painstakingly lined up Endeavour's crane with the grapple pin on Spartan. 
More than a half-hour later than planned, astronaut Michael Gernhardt reached out with the crane and grabbed the satellite. He hauled the 2,800-pound boxy craft into the cargo bay, where it will remain for the rest of the 11-day mission, due to end Sept. 18. 
The 230-mile-high ren-· dezvous was one of the shuttle mission's major objectives. 
Ground controllers suspect Spartan went into a safe, shut­down mode because of weak batteries or a depletion of steering fuel, said NASA man­ager Craig Tooley. 
The heaters inside the satel­lite were warm, indicating that everything was working until just before Endeavour showed up, Tooley said. 
"We believe that the most likely scenario is that the mis-
Russians withdraw! troops, Chechens agree to disarm 
Associated Press tions. 
Armed clashes have persisted 
GROZNY, Russia in the southern republic. On 
Long columns of Russian Saturday, a Russian tank com­troops rolled out of Chechnya mander was killed near Kur­on Sunday, the first since a July chaloi, about 12 miles east of 30 accord calling for a partial the capital, Grozny, when withdrawal. rebels fired grenade launchers 
The Chechen rebels, mean­at his vehicle. while, agreed to a schedule for The tank driver was missing disarming their fighters, an­and presumably taken pris­other key point in the military oner, Russian military officials agreement, which has re­said. Two other servicemen mained largely on paper amid were killed and three were mutual mistrust and accusa-wounded in rebel attacks. 
sion was a complete success," Tooley said. 
During its two days of free flight, the $8 million satellite was programmed to observe streams of charged particles hurtling from the sun's north pole at 500 miles per second. Gusts of this so-called solar wind can knock out power plants on Earth and interrupt radio signals. 
Spartan's observations were timed to coincide with those by Ulysses, a European solar probe passing high over the sun's northern polar region. 
With Spartan back on board, the five astronauts turned their attention to another satellite, a large, steel disk intended for electronics research. 
The astronauts plan to release the $25 Il}.illion Wake Shield Facility on Monday and recapture it two days later. 

De01s 
continued from page 1 

tive. His second goal is to fur­
ther Democratic ideals on cam­
pus. including fighting cuts in 
federal student aid and 
registering Democrats on cam­
pus to possibly affect local elec­
tions. 

Horn says the College 
Democrats are planning to 
have guest speakers through­
out the year. Potential speakers 
include Chicago Mayor Richard 
J. Daly, Indiana Governor Evan Bayh, and Congressman Tim Roemer. 
MANDATORY HEALTH INSURANCE IMPORTANT REMINDER INTERNATIONAL AND DEGREE-SEEKING GRADUATE STUDENTS 
PLEASE BE ADVISED THAT YOUR DEADLINE FOR RESPONDING TO THIS MANDATE IS SEPTEMBER 15, 1995. 
THE DEADLINE IS FOR WAIVING ENROLLMENT IN THE STUDENT INSURANCE AND ALSO APPLIES TO DEPENDENT ENROLLMENT. 
UNIVERSITY HEALTH SERVICES CHARLOTTE M. BOSTIC 
63 7-6 774 

What about after graduation?!? Are you considering all of your options? 
Come to a: General Information Session: Monday, Sept. 11th, 5 -6 p.m. 
or Thursday, Sept. 14th, 5 -6 p.m. A.n..Q. to the: Post-Graduate Volunteer Fair: Thursday, Sept. 28th, 7 -9 p.m. 
*Information Sessions and the Fair wiU be held at the CSC* 
AJ..s..Q: Stop by the Center to pick up information and resources for a wide variety of service-based organizations and programs and to sign up for individual or small-group discussions. 




VIEWPOINT 
Monday, September 11, 1995 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
John Lucas 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Elizabeth Regan Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor..................Michad O'Hara Ad Design Manager ...................... )en Mackowiak Sports Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Acunt Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor .................................. Rob Finch Ob..,rver Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Saint Mary' 1 Editor .................... Patti Carson Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurardy and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily thos~ of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I BB40 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-BB39 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor /Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General lnfonnation 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• RIGHT OR WRONG? 
Questioning death penalty usage 
Papal edict calls for reexamination of view 
"Idon't think they should kill him 
because it's not our right to kill. God should decide for his penalty," said 13 year-old Salvador Gonzalez in argu­ing last May to a California court that Frederick Lee Jackson should not be executed for the murder of Salvador's mother. As the wire service put it, "Sal­vador [said that] (k)illing is wrong; that's what the church says and what he thinks." Jackson was sentenced to life in prison without parole. 
incomparable and inviolable worth of every human life" (No. 96). 
"Evangelium Vitae" affirmed that the state has authority to impose the death penalty in some cases, but it mandates that a much heavier burden of proof must be met before one can rightly con­clude that "bloodless means" would not be "sufficient." Only "in cases of absolute necessity... when it would not be possible otherwise to defend society" may the death penalty be imposed: 
Was Salvador 
"There is a voicing merely a growing ten­personal forgive­dency, both in the ness? Or did he Church and in civil speak a truth society, to demand

Charles 
binding all of us? that [the death One could make penalty 1 be applied strong arguments in a very limited
Rice
for the death way or even that it penalty, as this be abolished com­writer and others pletely. The prob­
have done. Unlike the victim of abortion, the convicted murderer is guilty. The death penalty probably deters some homicides. Its abolition would put at risk innocent vic­tims who might be murdered by persons who should have been executed or by persons who would have been deterred by the prospect of the death penalty. 
n natural law and common sense, the I punishment should fit the crime. For some crimes, only the death penalty would correct the balance of justice. Murder should be stigmatized as the crime of crimes. To punish it by impris­onment, a penalty qualitatively no dif­ferent from that inflicted for larceny, is to devalue innocent life. Seen in this light, the death penalty can promote respect for innocent life. 
These and other arguments can be persuasive and even compelling. How­ever, "Evangelium Vitae," Pope John Paul's 1995 encyclical, has made them practically obsolete. It has raised the discussion to a new level calling for a "cultural transformation" based on "the 
lem must be viewed ·in the context of a system of penal jus­
tice ever more in line with human digni­
ty and thus, in the end, with God's plan 
for man and society. 
"The primary purpose of the punish­
ment which society inflicts is 'to redress 
the disorder caused by the offense.' 
Public authority must redress the viola­
tion of personal and social rights by 
imposing on the offender an adequate 
punishment for the crime, as a condition 
for the offender to regain the exercise of 
his or her freedom. 
"In this way authority also fulfills the 
purpose of defending public order and 
ensuring people's safety, while at the 
same time offering the offender an in­
centive and help to change his or her 
behavior and be rehabilitated. 
" It is clear that, for these purposes to 
be achieved, the nature and extent 
of the punishment must be carefully 
evaluated and decided upon. and ought 
not go to the extreme of executing the 
offender except in cases of absolute 
necessity: in other words, when it would 
not be possible otherwise to defend soci­
ety. Today however, as a result of steady 
improvements in the organization of the 
penal system, such cases are very rare, 
if not practically non-existent. 
"In any event, the principle set forth in 
the new Catechism of the Catholic 
Church remains valid: 'If bloodless 
means are sufficient to defend human 
lives against an aggressor and to protect 
public order and the safety of persons, 
public authority must limit itself to such 
means, because they better correspond 
to the concrete conditions of the com­
mon good and are more in conformity to 
the dignity of the human person"' (No. 
56) (emphasis in Evangelium Vitae). 
Even under this new criterion, one 
could still argue for the death penalty in 
very limited cases, such as that of a pris­
oner already serving a life sentence who 
murders a guard or another inmate. 
Should he get another life sentence? 
Would it be consistent with his dignity to 
wall him up permanently in a cell, with 
no direct contact ever with any other 
human being? The death penalty could 
be argued to be absolutely necessary in 
such a case, although even there it is 
debatable. 
O
ther situations could also be argued, such as a condition of unrest or rebellion in which the authorities would lack the means to keep a murderer securely imprisoned. It is clear, howev­er, that the letter as well as the spirit of -"Evangelium Vitae" should lead one who accepts it to oppose a general death penalty statute in the United States, and to oppose the use of that penalty in 
practically every conceivable case. 
Why should a Catholic, who had sup­ported the use of the death penalty, now accept the Pope's judgment? First, because this is a serious teaching of the Vicar of Christ which we are bound to accept whether we agree with it or not. The Second Vatican Council affirmed that "religious submission of will and of mind must be shown in a special way to the authentic teaching authority of the Roman Pontiff, even when he is not speaking ex cathedra" (Lumen Gentium, No. 25). 
O
Second, because "Evangelium Vitae" is compelling in its own terms because it presents a coherent and inspiring vision of a "culture of life" which offers the only answer to the pagan "culture of death" in which we have mired our­selves. ur next column will examine some aspects of that "culture of life." In this essay, however, we merely note that the first step for a Catholic, on "Evangelium Vitae." is to acknowledge who and what its author is. Either he is a Polish tourist living in Rome, or he is what he claims to be -the Vicar of Christ. In fact, Christ is God. His Vicar exercises the authority of Christ to teach on faith and morals. 
If one refuses to acknowledge the authoritative character of such a papal statement, he ought at least to have the candor to admit that he is not viewing it from the Catholic perspective. A Catholic who had supported the death penalty should not approach the encyclical in a search for phrases to support an ar­gument that nothing has changed and that he can therefore urge the use of that penalty as before. Instead, his effort should be simply to discern the mind of the Pope on this issue and follow it. 
N
God gave Cain "a distinctive sign, not to condemn him to the hatred of others, but to protect and defend him from those wishing to kill him." And "God... did not desire that a homicide be pun­ished by the exaction of another act of homicide" (No. 9). either, says the Vicar of the Son of God, should we. Salvador Gonzalez had it right. 
Professor Rice is on the Law School faculty. His column appears every other Monday . 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY
GARRY TRUDEAU
•DoONESBURY fLASHBACKS 




VIEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, September 11, 1995 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Chile Program 
Article reinforces stereotypes 
Dear Editor: 
am writing this letter in response to yourl-recent story on ND's study abroad program to Chile. I am from Chile and, though I have lived most of my life in the United States, I have returned to visit my family in Chile on several occasions. 
Specifically, I would like to take issue with the photographs that accompanied Tuesday's story. Though the story itself may or may not have done a successful job of accurately portraying · the experience of a handful of .ND students in Chile, the lasting impression left by the pho­tographs of a horse-drawn carriage and two seemingly poor children does nothing more than reinforce negative stereotypes of Latin America as a place of backwardness and poverty. 
Although the focus of the story may have been limited to the ND program in Chile, it would be naive to think that the implication of the message transmitted by the photographs would remain limited to that context as well. l AThere are the pictures of Santiago, the capi­
V V tal city and home to more than 5 million (with very little room for horse-drawn car­riages)? Where are the pictures of Chile's port cities like Valparaiso and Vina del Mar? Where are the photographs of Chile's major landmarks, its museums, or its presidential palace -like the ones used for today's story on Italy? 
I have seen countless pictures taken by friends who spent last semester in Chile. The majority of those pictures do not depict poverty and back­wardness. In other words, there was no shortage of photographs from which the Observer staff could have chosen. 
I
Your narrow and irresponsible portrayal of Chile is inexcusable, though unsurprising. My point is not to deny that poverty exists in Chile, but rather it is to call attention to the mistake that is made time and time again in the way North Americans perceive Latin America. t is disappointing that, when given the opportu­nity, the Observer failed to transcend tired stereotypes and missed a chance to present interesting information from a fresh and accu­rate perspective. 
FRANCISCO SANTONI Junior Off Campus 
lfiildfTt 
nl:eaning t Sbirt 
)W/. 4,::,: 
reputation 
•.. I feel I 
I made during the game~ Itwas deep in the mire of hot an~ ~ad justdrunk something 
~ec9()n. Such is the way with pressure deep in the proverbial Jungian sul>conscious. 
Anyway l was watching my beloved Irish™ being pum­meled by a. bunch of overeducated sons-of-lawyers and won­dermgwM;t><:oUld possibly have·brought this.on-dismissing divine retribution or lack of proper ball play as specious causes, My mind was reeling wildly but suddenly found its slot, like a ball on a roulette wheel. The answer was clear. it was right in front of me, it was, in fact, all around me. 
The Shirt. .·Have you seenthe shirt? Look at it. The color is a deep sin­
ister blue. Onthe back an Irish player is fleeing in stark mad terror. From what? A bolt of purple lightning appears to be sparking his derriere. 'SHAKE DOWN THE THUNDER' nothing. that's a bloody blast of electrons scorching our hopes of a winning season. Then lit in the purple Northwestern glow, Knute Rockne looks on-doing what?­laughing. Laughing! 
Unfortunately I recognized this assault on our teams morale toolate. Although I made a desperate attempt to com­mandeer tpe broadcast booth to warn everyone, I was 
· stopped just as I reached for the microphone -that dude from the Indiana State Police held a gun to my head and cuffed me to the walkway outside. 
Yours is a position of importance -you must find out how this Northwestern fifth column managed to penetrate our 
fortress of nepotism. Short of thi$ please warn everyone about 'The Shirt'. We could have a big shirt burning in the North Quad. 
LESTER lAMBERT 
Graduat~: Student. in Chemistry Off-aunpus 

Off-Campus team mars intent of 'dorm football' 

Dear Editor: 
am writing to protest the recent RecSportsl decision to permit an Off-Campus Women's Football team. First of all, we participants of the sport know it as "dorm football." Off-Campus is not a dorm, and it has no place as an organized team. Kinda reminds one of the catchy jingle. "One of these things is not like the other, one of these things does not belong." 
The mere presence of an Off-Campus team shows hypocrisy on the part of both RecSports, as a Notre Dame organization, as well as mem­bers of the Notre Dame student "family". 
RecSports claims that allowing Off-Campus residents to play for their dorms takes away playing time from freshmen. Whatever. 
Anybody who's ever played a team sport .1'\.knows that playing time isn't given, it's earned. As in any sport. younger players need to gradually gain experience and skill before being thrown into the fire. Besides, coaches are very fair about distributing playing time, understand­ing that winning isn't the top priority. 
Now let's talk about where the real disadvan­
tage to dorm teams occurs. By permitting an all­
senior squad, RecSports is in effect condoning 
the creation of an All-Star team while stripping 
teams of their senior leaders. We need our 
SMiors, not only for their ability, but for their 
undying spirit and invaluable experience. 
T
Thirty seniors with three years of experience, should. by all logic, beat thirty persons of varied classes nine times out often. Hence the domi­nance of the Off-Campus men's and women's teams last year. And what kind of legacy did those teams leave? Is anyone left behind from last year's Off-Campus group to keep that spirit alive? Of course not. here is none of the University's most prized 
commodity, tradition, in the concept of an 
Off-Campus team. Off-Campus is the Florida 
State of dorm football, forsaking pride and her­
itage for the sake of winning at all costs. 
What can we do about the destruction of the 
dorm family effected by RecSports through Off­
Campus football? We must protest! We must 
inundate RecSports with letters such as this one, 
decrying this assault on the soul of the dorm! 
We must educate our rectors about this situa­
I
tion and encourage them to plea on our behalf as Sister Sue Bruno of PW has already done. If nec­essary, we must boycott our OWil dorm football games until this grave error is corrected. At the very least RecSports should give the seniors liv­ing off campus the option of playing for their dorm! f enough seniors want to deny the dorm that has housed them for three years, fine. But let the seniors who still know their roots play for their dorm. Seniors who are considering playing for Off-Campus should realize their role in taking leadership and tradition away from the dorms and should resign from the Off-Campus roster. 
So much emphasis is placed on the family atmosphere of dorm life here at Notre Dame. I've been here little more than a year, but if asked what the high point of my experience here has been, I would immediately and enthusiastically respond that it is the closeness and camaraderie I feel with my friends in my own Pasquerilla West Hall. 
W
So much of that relates back to football season of my freshman year when I was introduced to the concept of dorm unity by the die-hard juniors on the PW team. Although many of those players moved off campus, their undying loyalty lies with the Weasels. e who remain mourn their loss as much as they mourn their inability to play their final season. Without our seniors, we are ungrounded and aimless, the very heart ripped out of our team. To them, playing for Off-Campus is treason and treachery. I know that the PW seniors are not alone in their sentiments, that un­derclassmen and seniors alike all over campus have a bitter taste in their mouths. 
You can take the seniors out of the dorm, but you can't take the dorm out of the seniors. Let's fight this blatantly bad policy and ensure that, come opening day of the football season, off­campus seniors are on the sideline of the dorm they've wholeheartedly represented for their entire careers. 
AMY CRAWFORD Sophomore Pasquerilla West Hall 
Football 



Randy Kinder's remarkable run caps a day of. offensive pyrotechnics that sees Notre Dame pull away from Purdue 
By TIM SEYMOUR Associate Sports Editor 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. 
Perhaps at the end of the season, Irish fans will be able to point to Saturday's 35­28 vietory over Purdue as a turning point, a time when the team finally convinced itself it eould win. 
Until then, it will be remembered for barely averted disaster and unexpected lwurt palpitations. "The kids played their hearts out and gave the fans a hell of a show, whieh you'd like to see all the time," stated Purdue eoach Jim Colletto. 
Not if you are an Irish fan. 
Notre Dame's vietory over the once-hapless Boilermakers was not secured until Ivory Covington and Bobbie Howard combined on fourth down to stop Purdue's Edwin Watson on the Irish six yard line, just short of a first down, with under a minutn left. 
Sueh last second dmmatics have been far from the norm in the Notre Dame-
see IRISH I page 2 
• Jock Strip 
Notre Dame victory exorcises ghosts of 
Mike Norbut
losers' past and present 
Sports Editor 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. 
I
f you take Houte 31 south towards West Lafayette, Ind., you'll see a sign directing you to Culver, the hotbed of horror where the Irish spent two-a-day workouts. 
Maybe seeing the sign struck enough fear into Notre Dame players that they decided to play hard. Maybe they decided that winning one for Irish head coach Lou Holtz was the way to get themselves fired up. Maybe they didn't want to fall off the face of the college football world, i.e. th(l Associated Press Top 25. Again. 
Probably, though, they were just tired of being called losers. 
"Nobody likes to lose," Irish flanker Emmett Mosley said. "We just got it togeth­er and picked it up a notch." A notch? Try a whole level. Or several of them. A completely different Notre Dame football team walked out into Hoss Ade 
Stadium Saturday. It was a calm, collected, emotional team. 
see NORBUT I page 2 

Monday, September 11, 1995 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA 
Frosh step to forefront for Irish 
By TIM SHERMAN Associate Sports Editor 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. 
Throughout the week follow­ing the Northwestern game, Irish coach Lou Holtz stressed that because his offense did not have big-play capabilities, they 

In addition to three scoring strikes of at least 30 yards, Notre Dame also ripped ofT ten plays that covered at least 14 yards against Purdue. Eight different players had a hand in these plays that turned the offense back into the quick strike offense Holtz loves. 
drive that had already seen three balls thrown to Derrick Mayes. On a third-down and four play from the Purdue 30, the Irish set up a timely screen pass to Randy Kinder that caught the Boilermakers off guard and was executed to per­fection. 
_ would need to be consistently "We had some people make "I had one really good block gain yards and keep control of some plays," Holtz said. "It on that screen," guard Hyan the ball. On Saturday, they was a little bit like what we're Leahy said. "Mike Doughty were consistent all right, but used to . We mixed it up well. picked up a corner blitz and much to Holtz' pleasant sur­Some people broke some tack­then I got downfield on the free prise, they were consistent not les and made things happens. safety and threw one on him. I just at moving the ball but also Notre Dame's first scoring couldn't see what was happen­at making the big plays. strike was a nice wrinkle to a ing behind me but I guess it looked good." 
The open field must have looked pretty nice to Kinder as well as all the Irish back had to do was avoid Leahy and saunter into the end zone. 
The execution over last week seemed to be immeasurably better, but nearly as important was the fact that the Irish made the correct choices. 
Scott Sollmann's 15 yard touchdown reception in the third quarter illustrated this. 
"Ron checked to the play and it was a great check," Sollmann noted. "He saw something he didn't like and it worked out right. He threw a good ball and I just caught it." 
Emmett Mosley, too, was the beneficiary of a beautifully con­ceived play. 
Early in the game, the Irish ran a reverse to Derrick Mayes that raised some eyebrows in doubt. Those doubts were erased late in third quarter as a fake reverse resulted in a 51 yard hook-up between Powlus and Emmett Mosley. 
"Basically, we knew they 
Irish freshman linebacker Bobbie Howard figured prominently on were keying in on Derrick so 
Saturday. The linebacker recorded seven tackles in his debut. we ran the fake reverse," 

Mosley explained. "The safety came up and tried to fill quickly and we got him coming up. ~he ~.ine gave Ron plenty of time. 
Mosley has started to come into his own as a play-maker for the Irish and foresees better and bigger things. 
"I think I can make big plays. It's just a matter of getting the opportunity and taking advan­tage of it." 
After Purdue evened the con­test at 28, the opportunity be­came Kinder's again. 
On the first play of the drive, the junior took a pitch from Powlus and burst through the right side of the line into the clear. 
"It was the only' time we went with an unbalanced line," noted Holtz. "We went unbalanced slot and it was well executed. We picked up an extra block to take care of the safety." 
Overall, it was a day for the Irish to take care of worries about a potentially anemic offense. 
"I think this game was very representative of what this team can do. After a while, ev­erything got going Now, we need to keep it going." 
Irish 
continued from page 1 
Purdue series, which Notre Dame has swept handily since 1985. For a team desperately groping for confidence, though, the Irish won't complain. 
"It may not have been pretty, in fact it may have been ugly, but never underes­timate a win," stated Notre Dame defen­sive coordinator Bob Davie. 
That win looked secur.e midway through the third quarter after Irish quarterback Ron Powlus lofted a touch­down pass, his fourth of the day, to wideout Emmett Mosley off a fake re­verse, putting Notre Dame up by a seemingly comfortable 28-13 margin. 
Powlus finished the game 17-25 for 252 yards, and his four touchdowns tied a Notre Dame mark that he also set last season against Northwestern. 
· "Powhis did a great job," praised Colletto. 
"I have a great deal of admiration for him because that's a tough job to do. Everything at that school is put in the spotlight so much." 
However, his final touchdown pass, rather than putting Purdue away, served to spark a dizzying procession of big plays that only ended with the final gun. 
After the teams traded punts, Purdue marched down the field aided by costly penalties to Irish defenders Allen Rossum and Kory Minor, who were flagged for pass interference and rough­ing the passer respectively. 
The drive was capped by Watson's 13­yard run up the middle to bring the Boilermakers within striking distance. 
Very few expected the next strike to come so quickly. 
. On Not.r~ Dame's fourth play on the next possession, Powlus was intercepted by Derrick Brown, who raced 54-yards for a touchdown. 
The ensuing two-point conversion While Kinder delivered in that back corner of the endzone. knotted the game and brought back instance, big plays became almost rou­The Irish were again the beneficiaries visions of last week's debacle against tine as the two squads tallied a com-' of Purdue miscues when Boiler quarter­Northwestern. bined 980 yards in total offense. back Rick Trefzger missed Alstott in the 
Momentum did not remain with However, it was the last 13 'yards of flat on third down. Purdue for long though. offense that stymied the Boilermakers. "On that third down play, I went to the 
Rather than staggering under the flat and was wide open," said Alstott. unexpected pressure of the moment, the After Reisman hopeful fullback Mike "He should have thrown it to me, but Irish offense collected itself and Alstott rumbled 34-yards down the right you can't dwell on that." returned the favor, as tailback Randy sideline to place Purdue in prime scor­Kinder broke right on the first play from ing position, the Boilermakers were Be sure that the Irish will not dwell on scrimmage and sprinted 52-yards to put unable to push the ball across the it either. Notre Dame back in the lead. goalline in four chances. Certainly there were areas needing 
They did come close though. improvement, but for a team facing the 
"At that point we just came back and "We had four downs to get in the end­prospect of an 0-2 start, senior Ryan answered," said Mosley. "That showed zone and just didn't execute our plays," Leahy's synopsis that "a win is a win is a we were together. Randy broke a lot of said Purdue quarterback Rick Trefzger. win" became the team's motto. big runs." "We might have tried to hit the big "We did not play particularly well on 
"I told the guys in the huddle, 'OK, I play too early." defense, but we did make some plays," made it interesting,'" said Powlus. On second down a wide-open Craig said Irish coach Lou Holtz. "We're glad "Then I said, 'Let's make a big play."' Allen bobbled a sure touchdown in the to win." 
• Graded Position Analysis 
Quarterback B+ Ron Powlus completed 17 ~of~25 passes for 252 yards and four touchdowns. But a fourth quarter intercep­
tion for a touchdown could have been costly. 
Running Backs A-
Randy Kinder exploded for 142 yards, including a 52~ yard run in the fourth quarter. Autry Denson looked strong in his debut. and Marc Edwards played tough. 
Receivers A The Irish proved that they had more than just Derrick Mayes. Mosley, Chryplewicz. Wallace and Sollmann got in on the act. A nice job blocking downfield as well. 
' 
Offensive Line A~ 502 yards of total offense is nothing to shake· a stick at. Neither is allowing justoriesack. A good job consider"· ing they lost Jeremy Ak(:)rsjust three days before. 
Linebackers B+ 
A strong unit once again. Intense as usual, even with the new faces. Bobbie Howard played well in his first start, and Lyron Cobbins was all over the place. 
Secondary C+ Shawn Wooden's and Mark Monahan's picks paced this unit. Brian Magee played well. But Allen Rossum and·Ivory Covington have to be happy the game's over. LaRon Moore needs to learn how to tackle. 
Special Teams A~ Purdue conceded field position because they were afraid of Emmett Mosley's return capabilities. The only blemish here was Kevin Kopka's missedfield goal. 
CQachingB+ 
Some unexpected play calls and confident bunch of player. There were •a couple offourth downs when you have to wcmder why Holtz didn't try for a field goal. 
.. . . 
Defensive Line B  .  Overall Grade 3.37  
Mike Alstott plowed ahead as expected, and Corey  The emotion was there, the heart was there, and a vic·  
Rogers ha,d a C()uple of nice runs. But the Irish line  tory came as a result. They need¢d it, even if it was a  
held when it needed to, even with critical injuries.  close win over Purdue.  ~·Mike Norbut  


Good decisions, execution add up to over 500 yards of total offense 
By TIM SHERMAN Associate Sports Editor 
WEST lAFAYETTE, Ind. Throughout the week follow­ing the Northwestern game, Irish coach Lou Holtz stressed that because his ofl'ense did not have big-play capabilities, they would need to consistently gain yards and keep control of the ball. On Saturday, they were con­sistent, but much to Holtz's pleasant surprise, they were consistent not just at moving the ball but also at making the big plays. In addition to three scoring strikes of at least 30 yards, Notre Dame ripped off ten plays that covered at least 14 yards against Purdue. Eight different players had a hand in these plays that turned the offense back into the quick strike offense I IoHz loves. "We had some people make some plays," Holtz said. "It was a little bit like what we're usnd to bning. We mixed it up well. Some people broke some tackles and made things hap­pen." Notre Dame's first scoring strike was a nice wrinkle to a drive that had already seen three balls thrown to Derrick Mayes. On a third-and-four 

page 3 
The Observer • IRISH EXTRA Monday, September 11, 1995 
Big plays make for big day for Irish offense 
play from the Purdue 30, the Irish set up a timely screen pass to Randy Kinder that caught the Boilermakers off guard and was executed to per­fection. 
"I had one really good block on that screen," guard Ryan Leahy said. "Mike Doughty picked up a corner blitz and then I got downfield on the free safety and threw one on him. I couldn't see what was happen­
ing behind me 

9. Colorado 2-0 10 1,033 10. Ohio State 1-0 9 1,023 11. Michigan 3-0 11 957 12. UCLA 2-0 12 941 13. Alabama 2-0 13 762 14. Oklahoma 1-0 14 720 15. Texas 1-0 15 647 16. Virginia 2-1 16 637 17. Arizona 2-0 17 509 18. Washington 1-0 18 478 19. Miami 1-1 19 393 20. Oregon 2-0 24 296 
21. Air Force 2-0 NR 287 22. Kansas State 2-0 21 249 23. Georgia 1-1 NR 153 24. Notre Dame 1-1 25 137 25. Northwestern 1-0 NR 121 
TEAM RECORD ~~~~-POINTS 
1. Florida State (33) 2-0 1 2. Nebraska (20) 2-0 2 3. Texas A&M (4) 1-0 3 4. Florida (2) 2-0 5 5. Auburn (2) 2-0 6 6.USC 1-0 7 7. Penn State 1-0 4 .8. Tennessee (1) 2-0 8 
1,514 1,481 1,372 1,313 1,302 1,217 1'155 1,058 
but I guess it 
looked good." Scott Sollmann's 15-yard 
The open field must have touchdown reception in the looked pretty nice to Kinder as third quarter illustrated this. well as all the Irish back had to "Ron checked to the play and do was avoid Leahy and it was a great check," Sollmann saunter into the end zone. noted. "He saw something he 
The execution over last week didn't like and it worked out seemed to be immeasurably right. He threw a good ball and better, but nearly as important I just caught it." was the fact that the Irish made Emmett Mosley, too, was the the correct choices. beneficiary of a beautifully con­
In particular, Purdue's de­ceived play. fensive schemes dictated a lot Early in the game, the Irish of what the Irish did. ran a reverse to Derrick Mayes 
• By the Book 
FINAL GAME STATISTICS 
TEAMSTATS  NO  PU  
First downs  26  27  
Rushes-yards  43·250  43·275  
Passing yards  252  203  
Comp-att-lnt  17-25-2  18-35·3  
Retum yards  207  162  
Punts·avg  1-21.0  3-36.7  
Possession time  28:32  31:28  

INDIVIDUAL STATS 
RUSHING-Notre Dame: Kinder 14-142 TD, Denson 7·69. Edwards 8·30, Farmer 3·5, Mayes 1·5, Gibbs 2­3, Spencer 1-2. Powlus 6·(-1), Stokes H-5). Purdue: Alstott 21·115, Rogers 5-68 TD, Watson 10·60 TD. Trefzger 5-15, Reeves 1-14, Allen 1·3. 
PASSING· Notre Dame: Powtus 17·25·2-252 4TD. Purdue: Trelzger 15·27-2·181. Reeves 3·8+ 
22. 
• Scoring Summary 
SCORE BY QUARTERS 
1 2 3 4 TOT Notre Dame 0 14 14 7 35 Purdue 7 3 3 15 28 
SCOING SUMMARY 
FIRST QUARTER 
Purdue 7, Notre Dame 0 Rogers 42 run (Babich kick) at 3:59 (5 plays, 71 yards, 2:13 elapsed) Key Play: Trefzger's third-down completion to Alford to keep the drive alive. 
SECOND QUARTER 
Notre Dame 7, Purdue 7 Kinder 30 pass from Powlus (Kopka kick) at 9:58 (5 plays, 60 yards, 1:53) Key Play: Sollmann's 24·yard punt return gave the Irish the ball in good field posi· lion. 
Notre Dame 14, Purdue 7 Mayes 12 pass from Powlus (Kopka kick) at 4:22 (6 plays. 60 yards, 2:03) Key Play: Denson's carries of 19 and 12 yards got the Irish into scoring position. 
Notre Dame 14, Purdue 1 0 Babich 25 FG at :06 (14 plays, 73 yards, 
4:16) Key Play: Alslott converted on 4th & 1 from the Irish 30. 
THIRD QUARTER Notre Dame 21, Purdue 1 0 
RECEIVING-Notre Dame: Mayes 7-85 TD, Kinder 2·38 TD. Mosley 2·61 TD. Farmer 1-17. Edwards 1·17, Sollmann H5 TD, Denson 1-9, Wallace 1-6, Chryplewicz 1-4. 
Purdue: Alford 7·91, Alstott 4-45, Allen 2-26, Watson 2·20, I. Jones 1-12, Stephens 1·6, Ollvadotti 1-3. 
TACKLES-Notre Dame: Cobbins 15, Berry 8, Moore 8, Howard 7, Wynn 6, Magee 6, Rossum 6, Wooden 5 (2 lnt), Kramer 4, Covington 4, Bennett 3, Minor 2, Belisle 2, Mitoulas 2, Grasmanis 1 (1 sack), Wagasy 1, Carretta 1, Smith 1, Monahan 0 (1 int). 
Purdue: Burroughs 13. Brown 10 (1 int), Brush 8, O'Connor 6, Winston 6, Okeafor 5, Krick 4, Hall 4, Francis 4, Howard 2, Nwokorie 2, Smith 2, Williams 1 (1 in!, 1 sack). 
Sollmann 15 pass from Powlus (Kopka kick) at 11 :30 (7 plays, 53 yards, 3:30) Key Play: The Irish converted on a big third down as Powlus hit Edwards out of the backfield for 17 yards. 
Notre Dame 21, Purdue 13 Babich 21 FG at 5:02 (15 plays, 77 yards, 6:28) Key Play: Trefzger to Alford for 17 yards on a 3rd & 15 from the Boiler42. 
Notre Dame 28, Purdue 13 Mosley 51 pass from Powlus (Kopka kick) at 3:12 (4 plays, 66 yards, 1 :50) Key Play: Three short runs to set up the fake reverse pass. 
FOURTH QUARTER 
Notre Dame 28, Purdue 20 Watson 13 run (Babich kick) at 11:31 (6 plays, 80 yards, 3:07) Key Play: Minor was penalized for a late hit on Trefzger, nullifying Wooden's interception at the goal line. 
Notre Dame 28, Purdue 28 
D. Brown 54 interception return (conver­sion pass good) at 9:29 Key Play: Brown said Powlus looked right at Mayes. 
Notre Dame 35, Purdue 28 Kinder 52 run (Kopka kick) at 9:12 (1 play, 52 yards, :17) Key Play: You're looking at it. 
that raised some eyebrows in doubt. Those doubts were erased late in third quarter as a fake reverse resulted in a 51­yard hook-up between Powlus and his flanker. 
"Basically, we knew they were keying in on Derrick so we ran the fake reverse," Mosley explained. "The safety came up and tried to fill quickly and we got him coming up. The line gave Hon plenty of time." 
Mosley has started to come into his own as a play-maker for the Irish and foresees better and bigger things. 
"I think I can make big plays. There's a lot of guys out there that are capable of making big plays. It's just a matter of get­ting the opportunity and taking advantage of it." 
After Purdue evened the con­test at 28, the opportunity once again became Kinder's. 
On the first play of the drive, he took a pitch from Powlus and burst through the right side of the line into the clear. 
"It was the only time we went with an unbalanced line," noted Holtz. "We went unbalanced slot and it was well executed. We picked up an extra block to take care of the safety." 
Overall, it was a day for the Irish to take care of worries about a potentially anemic offense. 
"I think this game was very representative of what this team can do," Mosley said. 
"After a while, everything got going Now, we need to keep it going." 
Norbut 
continued from page 1 
And most importantly, it became battle-tested. 
Notre Dame's stand on their own 12-yard line 
with a minute to play against a team who had 
gained almost 500 yards of offense had everyone 
on the edge of their seats. 
But they came out fine. In fact, they came out 
with flying colors. The Irish saw their football 
lives flash before their eyes and laughed. 
"We were in a very emotional situation," Irish 
quarterback Ron Powlus said following the 
game. "I feel like screaming or something. 
"There was so much pressure on us to get a _,. 
win," he continued. "We believe in ourselves, but 
it's getting pecked at day by day on TV and in 
the papers." 
You can only take so much pecking when 
you've lost six of your last eight games over the 
past two seasons. Sure, beating Navy and Air 
Force are fun, but there's something to be said 
for beating a real team. 
And believe it or not, Purdue is a real team. 
They have a Heisman Trophy candidate in Mike 
Alstott. They have a marching band with its own 
media guide. And of course, supposedly Purdue 
is the home to the world's largest drum. 
But really, it could have been the Little Sisters 
of the Poor out there playing Notre Dame. A win 
is a win, and you can't complain when you've 
just lost to Northwestern. 
"This is just huge," Powlus said. "We really · needed this." 
Confidence is the most important intangible in 
football. Teams don't even have to be talented to 
win. They just have to want to. 
Northwestern wanted to win. They expected 
to. Not like that's ever stopped teams from 
stomping their faces in before, but the Wildcats 
sincerely meant it. 
Notre Dame meant it Saturday. Purdue felt the 
brunt of an emotional outburst by the Fighting 
Irish. 
Not to jump to conclusions, but a team similar 
to this squeaked by Northwestern two years ago 
before upsetting Michigan. That same team felt 
they deserved the National Championship after 
losing to Boston College. 
This team isn't to that level yet. But you never 
know what can happen when you win a game or 
two. 
Maybe everyone was just a little too quick to 
call these guys losers. 
----~------~---­
-~--~~-·~ 
---~--~--~ ~----~ ­
Monday, September 11, 1995 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA page4


The Observer/Kevin Klau Linebacker Bert Berry does the difficult; bringing down Purdue fullback Mike Alstott. The "A-Train" rushed for 118 yards on the afternoon. 
Notre Dame 35 Purdue 28 
Ross-Ade Stadium September 9, 1995 


By MIKE NORBUT 
Sports Editor 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. The Irish now have two decades of dominance to speak of. 
After going eleven years without giving up a loss to Southern Cal, Notre Dame has now gone ten with­out losing to Purdue. It might not be as impressive as knocking off the Trojans, but it's something for this team to hang its hat on. 
It's the first win over a non-military academy since the Irish beat Stanford in the fifth week last season. Their two wins since then have come against Navy and Air Force. 
"This is a huge confidence boost," Irish quarterback Ron Powlus said. "We needed a win by a point, twenty points, fifty points, anything." 
Finally!: Though elusive, Irish head coach Lou Holtz finally captured his 200th victory with Notre Dame's 200th win over Purdue. 
Beuerlein. Beuerlein did it in 1986 against USC. 
Ironically, that game was also the last time an opponent intercepted a pass and returned it for a touchdown against the Irish. Powlus' pass in the fourth quarter was picked off by Der­rick Brown, who ran it 54 yards for a score. The Trojans' Lou Brock (no. not the one the Cubs traded away) was the last to do it almost ten years ago. 
Injuries: Wooden. Allen Rossum, Renaldo Wynn, Corey Bennett and LaRon Moore all suffered from leg cramps at various points in the game. Wynn's looked to be the most painful, as he was carted off on a stretcher in the fourth quarter. 
Safety Jarvis Edison suffered a mild concussion in the first half and did not return to the game. 
In the Background: Irish starting receiver Charlie Stafford has seen plenty of playing time this year, but no action. He has not caught a pass 

''I'm glad it came at Notre Dame and I'm glad it came with a group of guys that played their hearts out." 
The Irish certainly did that. The emotion was evident throughout the game. "No one likes to lose," receiver Emmett Mosley said. "We just got it together and picked it up a notch." 
The Rebound: Holtz was concerned with how his Irish would react after a shocking 17-15 loss to Northwestern. "I did not know how we were going to respond this weekend, especially with us playing on the road," he said. 
Notre Dame responded by piling up 502 yards of total offense and a con­verting on three turnovers. Shawn Wooden had two interceptions and Mark Monahan added a third. 
The Records: Powlus' four touch­down passes ties a Notre Dame game record. That record is held by three other quarterbacks-Angelo Bertelli, Daryle Lamonica and Steve in two games, and he has held for field goals and extra points. 
Unlevel Field of Play: Purdue was so scared of kicking to Mosley that they pooched it every time in the sec­ond half. "It's hard when you let a team start on the 50 yard line," Purdue coach Jim Colletto said. "We had a hard time making up for that." 
Heisman Watch: Can a fullback really win the Heisman? Purdue thinks Mike Alstott can. They're hyp­ing him for all it's worth, including selling "A-Train" shirts to gullible visitors. 
Slap in the Face: Take a look at the polls. See anything scary? Like maybe Northwestern cracking the Associated Press Top-25? The Wildcats are now in the No. 25 slot, just one spot below the Irish. A hard­er slap in the face would have only been if Northwestern was ranked above Notre Dame. 

--------~-----------------------~-------------------~---~~~---------------­

ACCENT 
Monday, September II, I995 page II 
Jhe world's faryesl cily
• 
opens 1fs doors Ia !he
eXICO 
ity 
Photo courtesy of Laum Baumeister 
Ancient Aztec ruins, such as these at Palengue, still stand from the Gulf to the Pacific. 
abroadwilhoullhe chaflenye of
ustral ia 
masleriny a new lanyuaye 
By MEGHAN KUNKEL 
Accent Writer 
T
o many of us, border towns like Juarez and Tijuana make up our sum impressions of the Mexican experience. Favorable though they may be, they resemble only the slightest frac­tion of the cultural richness and ex­pansive tradition that is Mexico. Father 
Photo courtesy of Laura Baumeister 
The Basilica de Guadalupe is just one example of Mexico's Catholic tradition. 

mr~~----------------------------------------,_--
UalYenlty of Notre Dame Autrala 
Photo courtesy of Kathleen Clark 
Notre Dame students studying "down under'' in the spring of '95. 
Hesburgh must have realized our Americanized misconceptions thirty years ago when he first initiated the Mexico City study abroad program-one of the oldest on the Notre Dame campus. Professor Angela Borelli, current head of the program, stressed that many barriers are broken when students immerse themselves in a foreign culture; prejudice and ignorance slowly melt away when language ceases to be an obstacle. 
The Mexico City program in particular has grown in popularity over the years for several reasons. Although the requirements are the same as for oth­ers-2.5 GPA, B in language class, and several recommendations-Mexico City possesses an allure, an enchantment, that sends our students back here homesick, but fluent. 
Notre Dame students usually go for one semester, as sophomores or juniors, although it is possible to stay the whole year. Individuals are matched up with a family and take classes at a Jesuit uni­versity. Once there they have the option of immediately settling into the regular Mexican curriculum or easing into it with a special program designed for international students called El Centro. There is a huge variety of classes avail­able to the students, although Laura Baumeister, who stayed in Mexico City last fall semester, said that they acted as compliments to her experimental learn­ing. 
Most students take advantage of the vast cultural resources around them in the world's largest city. Weekend trips are common and economical to such lecations as the Mayan temples, the Aztec pyramids, and Caribbean beaches. 
By JENNY KELLOGG 
Accent Writer 
many Notre Dame and Saint 

Mary's students cheer from sta­
ium seats while watching Irish football, cheerleaders, and marching hand, on another continent, an eternity away, somo students feel a different spirit. The music of the didgereedoo and visions of aboriginal dancing fill the air and the minds of the participants of tho Fremantlo, Australia, study abroad program. 
Each semester around twenty five 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's juniors live in Fremantle and attend the University of Notre Dame, Australia. The program is geared for Business stu­dents in the Fall and Liberal Arts in the Spring semester. This will be the fourth year South Bend students will attend the Australian branch of Notre Dame and each year the student body grows. Classes, formerly only American stu­dents, are now integrated with Australian students. The growth of the Fremantle branch has contributed greatly to the development of the pro­gram, which now has over five hundred undergraduate students. 
Xo!re 7Jame communily 

Jhe excilemenlofa semester 
The American students live in a hos­tel-like residence situated blocks from the University and, perhaps more importantly, the beach. Students find the palm trees of Fremantle a change from South Bend scenery and enjoy the warm Australian climate during their stay. During a week-long mid-semester break, students can travel to cities such as Queensland, Sydney, Melbourne, and Tasmania. Some students take advan­tage of the opportunity to snorkel in the Great Barrier Reef, white-water raft, or even skydive. While touring, many Domers glimpsed kangaroos, koalas, Tasmanian devils, and other wildlife. Still others chose to venture into the Outback to visit Aboriginal colonies and historical prisons. 
In their studies students approach learning "hands-on," while gaining a distinct international perspective. In the community, Americans meet a friendly and mellow attitude. "No worries, mate" seems to be the motto. 
However, one minor adjustment is the Australian accent. Although no foreign language is necessary for this abroad program, Australian slang and dialect are challenging but interesting to expe­rience. 
Students who participate in the Fremantle program are rewarded with a closeness to one another, an insight into Australian ways of life, and a growth in perspective. Kathleen Clark, who returned from a semester in Fremantle Notre Dame itself provides a trip for the students at the end of the semester to the Yucatan. 
The program is more than this though. In speaking to those who have already made the trip, it is clear that one grows intellectually, spiritually, and emotion­ally. The atmosphere is warm, welcom­ing, and festive. Traditions, many Catholic, are immensely important, and the solidarity of the people is evident from the start. Baumeister expressed it best in trying to convey the cultural atmosphere -describing the mariachi music, the street vendor delicacies ­when she claimed, "Everything has a flavor." 
The Mexico City program is described by all the participants I spoke to as not only incredibly enriching, but a vital component to their social development. Whomever you talk to, you are sure to encounter enthusiastic encouragement to go and take advantage of one of the best experiences Notre Dame has to offer. 
last Spring, believes that "To have the opportunity [to go abroad] is really amazing. Australia always seemed far away, out of reach. Now that it is part of my experience I have a deeper appreciation of my life here." 



----------. 
;ACCENT
page 12 Monday, September 11, 1995 

cSiudyiny in ~nsbruc£prowdes sludenls w1than educal1on !hal
ustria 
• DAYS OF OuR LIVES 
The 'Days' Lowdown: Peter Takes Flight 
By MIKE JACCARINO Accent Writer 
E 
uropeans delight in watching other people. By custom, a French or Austrian will sit facing the street rather than the person who has joined them to watch the passerbys stroll along the venues. Conversation continues over the outdoor tables in the cafe but only as the patrons partake in the sub­tleties of life as it walks in front of them. An American tourist may pass by as the patrons wave for one more latte or another cappuccino. 
The International Studies program alTords Notre Dame students the oppor­tunity to partake in that time-worn tra­dition of viewing life-to sit in a cafe and watch the whole European world stroll by. Of the programs available, the Austria-Innsbruck trip is the oldest, now entering its thirty-first year. 
The students of the program spend a year studying a humanities curriculum at the University in Innsbruck. But the trip begins long before the flight leaves North America. It begins in the class­room of Professor Marie Antoinette Kremer. Students intending to embark for Austria must first maintain a 2.5 GPA and at least a B average in either German 101 or 121. The cost of the trip equals that of a year at Notre Dame, taking into account scholarships and aid. 
The program is designed to teach the German language and to provide an introduction to Austrian culture, but the course outline is often expanded by the Luxemborgish Professor. Students must "smell, feel and see " the Austrian cul­ture to become thoroughly immersed in it. A student will become acquainted with the sights, sounds, tastes and smells of the country by listening to Professor Kremer recount age-old Austrian fables and the content of German magazine articles. Sweet chocolates from German confectioners 
1nuofues muchmore !han academ1cs 
and the appetizing Austrian dishes ing a joke in German. From there, stu­baked by Professor Kremer herself dents travel to their future home, beckon to the class. Groceries are Innsbruck-a charming city adorned brought in for students to name in with baroque architecture and sur­German as the professor points out that rounded by the picturesque Austrian they were bought using a personal shop-countryside. From their residences, 

Peter Kittleson, Mara Grace, and Meagen Stifellisten for the sound of music in the 
Austrian countryside. · 
ping bag as is the practice in the out­door markets of Europe. Still there is also an emphasis on European culture as a whole since the nations of the conti­nent are like fireworks exploding in the sky. They share many of the same attributes yet each one is distinct as it flares up across the _night. "After all," she adds with a laugh, "It is said that a lot of Austrians are actually Frenchmen who had grown too tired on the return from the Napoleonic Wars -to walk the distance back to Paris." 
Students are further prepared during an intensive language session held in a small town outside Salzburg. Junior Peter Kittleson recalls being lead off into the streets to approach strangers offer-they can view the grandeur of the Austrian Alps which extend above the pastures around the city. 
At any time during their stay, students are free to venture to other parts of Europe. Most traveled to Munich for the merrymaking that takes place under the huge rectangular tents of the Oktoberfest. They watched burly, sweat­ing German waitresses carry six mugs in each hand to the dancing people. Many students return having seen the whole of the continent. As these trips and other activities such as skiing in the Alps or taking a gondola ride through Venice are independent, they are not included in the cost of the trip. 
At the University, class sizes tend to be quite small, while the teachers are fre­quently heads of their department selected by Notre Dame. Professors do not entirely change their teaching style for American students, but teach in con­sideration of varying levels of German proficiency. A stipend is given every two weeks for expenses and for meals. Later in the year, students can apply for a guest family which they visit about twice a week. 
'Jfyou're sitting by yourself 
its not uncommon to walk over to another who is sitting alone. You might meet your future bride or life companion that way. It's far better than sitting alone.' 
Junior Gretchen Gusich found the most beautiful aspect of traveling to a foreign country to be the honesty and openness around her. The trip was de­scribed by all as a rare growing experi­ence. 
Peter Kittleson found himself engaged in a conversation about these experi­ences with an Austrian stranger. They spoke of the way the Austrian had thought nothing of walking over to chat and the other times Peter had been approached by strangers. "If you're sit­ting by yourself its not uncommon to walk over to another who is sitting alone. You might meet your future bride or life companion that way. It's far better than sitting alone," the man explained. Peter spoke of all the won­ders he had marveled at in the last year. The man nodded in agreement and wawd for another cappuccino and latte. Together they sat in the cafe, facing passerbys on the streets, watching life go by. 
By CHRISTINA FTICSAR and ERIN KELSEY 
Days of Our Lives Correspondents 
T
o all the Peanut and Pumpkin fans, we are deeply apologetic for last week's misspelling of Samantha Brady's nickname "Sami," as well as her sister Carrie's name. We regret any confusion or anger this may have caused. However, we do feel that those who called and complained to the Observer and not directly to us are only trying to steal our fame and fortune as the Observer's "Days of Our Lives" correspondents. 
Now, let's get down to business! Stefano was released from the hospital and into Marlena's open arms (i.e., her apartment, her home; let's be honest, her loveshack). We bet he can't wait until he regains the use of all lower extremities and not just his legs. Marlena's goodwill caused much tension among those who remem­ber Stefano's evil deeds. 
Does anyone have a clue as to what Tony's psycho plan is? It's a little hazy. Either he's going to kill someone and set John up to take the fall, or he's going to trick John into killing someone. Which ever way, several of Salem's mental institutions pop into our minds. Maybe Laura can recommend a good one. 
Peter and Jennifer were supposedly going away for some quality time without Jack. Surprisingly, they were back in about an hour, claiming they wanted to make sure Abigail got into bed on time. We don't know if they thought she would be at the Penthouse Grill or what, but that's where they turned up. 
At the same time, Laura was doing everything in her power to seduce Jack. which wasn't much. Jack couldn't stand to see Peter and Jennifer together, so he headed to the balcony, where he was confronted by Peter. They proceeded to get into a "very realistic" fight, when after one, possibly two punches, Peter felVjumped off of the balcony and onto a ledge. Luckily, Miracle-Doctor-Know-All Mike was with his one-date-of-the-year at the Grill and was able to get Peter to the hospital. It didn't look good for Peter, but we're sure he'll bounce back. 
High-Hair Hope and Big-Butt Bo fmal­ly got their divorce, much to Hope's and Carmen's dismay. It basically took all week for this to happen, with little upsets and scares thrown in for good looks. Sami weasled her way into a job with Austin and Carrie, so they wouldn't be alone togeth­er. Victor and Vivian are well on their way to a night of amor, unfortunately it makes us sick. 
We are sure if you watched on Friday, you'll remember the "tongue incident." 
in the Atlantic. to suspect the truth about Vivian's inten­tions with Victor. 
Predictions: Tony picks Marlena as the "Brady to kill." Marlena continues to wear pastels. · Peter lives. Mike's next date is at Christmas. Hope and Bo get back together. Bo makes more lizard noises, and Billie leaves the show to take basic Spanish. 
If you have more predictions and/or comments, feel free to e-mail them to the Observer's "Days of Our Lives» experts at Christina.N.Fticsar.l@nd.edu. 
Monday, September 11, 1995 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS page 13 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

PT/FT-International  I NEED TEXAS AND USC GA'SI  NO ALUM NEEDS 2/4 OSU TIX  Willing to trade two Navy G.A.s lor  Hey, youl I know you're interested  
NOTICES  multi-million $ company looking for sports minded, self-motivated, atti­ PLEASE CALL SUZY AT X3729.  GA'S PREF. CALL MIKE 212-574­1071  Texas tickets.  in Notre Dame Student Players. Our first meeting of the year is com­ 
tude-driven individuals to help  Need Student Booklets and GAs lor  Tom  ing up soon. Mark your calendars:  
WEEKLY· MIDWAY TAVERN  expand Northern Indiana territory.  every game.  "Need two BC tixl"  634·1157  
810W4TH MISH.  Flex hrs., excellent pay, training  Call277-4755  Please call Kristin  (9/18/95, 6 p.m., Notre Dame  
MON THE JAZZ FIRM 7:30-9:30  provided. For interview call 277·  @ 2377  WANTED 5 BC GA'slll PLEASE  Room, LaFortune).  
WED OPEN JAM 9:30  5289  Student needs  CALL JENI271-1850.  
THURS IRISH MUSIC 9  2 tickets for USC game  Need BC & USC GA's & Stud  All are welcome. Keep the faith  
2BLKS S.OF 100 CTR  Earn $2500 & Free Spring Break  for DOMESICK parents  Meg or Sue @ 4544  DESPERATELY NEED B.C. stu­ and love alive. Be a part of the  
255-0458 NEED ID  Trips! Sell 8 Trips & Go Freel Best  please call Bonnie at 634-3397  dent and GA ticketsll Call Beth at  action. I'll see you there.  
Trips & Prices! Bahamas, Cancun,  with your tickets.  Need Vandy Texas WA Stud &  273·8334.  
Humor Artists: HA  Jamaica, Florida! Spring Break  GA's  WANTED  
Want to write, act, or display body  Travail 1-800-678-6386  Will trade 2 BC GA's for 2 Texas  Katie or Christy @ 4514  Helpll need a total of 8 GAs plus  2 WILD tennis players of intermed·  
parts in sketch comedy?  GA's. 815-282-9503  1 st. tix lor Vanderbilt, Matt X-3931  late ability to play doubles w/2 jr.  
Cali Mark 271-1400  NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ TEXAS BOY DESPERATELY  babes. Call Steff! and Monica at  
mmartno@darwln.cc.nd.edu  Seasonal & full-time employment  Need any home GA's  SEEKING TEXAS TICKETS.  Will trade Navy GA's for Vand.  284·52401  
or Alan at alaser@  available at National Parks, Forests  call Steve @ x11 03  PLEASE CALL MIGUEL AT X3336.  GA's. Call Erin #4021  
& Wildlife Preserves. Benefits +  DOES ANYONE AT NOT8E DAME  
Learn to fly airplanes, Instrument,  bonuses! Call: 1-206-545-4804 ext.  NEED GA TICKETS FOR TEXAS­ Will trade 1 stud Vandy & Tex for  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  EVER DATE???  
Private Ground School begins  N55841  NO GAME. WILL PAY TOP DOL­ 2 Navy GAs Ben x3305  I NEED TEXAS STUDENT TICK·  
October, Jack Arbanas 219-234­ LAR. (610)995-9671  ETS. WILL PAY GOOD MONEY  A Lot more would If they went last  
8011 or 616-695-280  Lead Guitarist Looking for Band  Selling OSU tickets call Eric x0669  CALL CHRIS @239·8922  year to the CREATVIE DATING  
Call Flynn x-1007  FOR SALE TICKETSIIII  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  SEMINAR ..... LUCKY lor you, BACK  
Newly remodeled Bed and  G.A. S  ALL  GAMES  Need Texas tickets. Call Eric  BY POPULAR DEMAND  
Breakfast located in Middlebury, 30  Business oriented men and women.  ....... 272-72331111111111  x0669  I need 2 Texas G.A.s  Dad won't  Student Activities presents:  
miles from campus. 5 rooms with  Gain marketing ex- pay lor my last semester unless I  
private baths, space available for  perience and earn $'s at the  CAN Y'ALL HELP OUT?  NEED:  get these tickets. x4040  CREATIVE DATING SEMINAR  
football game wknds. 1-800-418­ same time. Fit your schedule  NEED TEX TIX-GA OR STDNT  1 GA for Texas and  WEDNESDAY  
9487  part time. call Ron 272-7147  TOP DOLLAR PAID  1 GAforBC.  Need 2 BC tix. Student or GA.  September 13  
CALL KELLI X4044  call Christine @ 273-2580  Kevin x1739.  8:00p.m.  
QUALITY CHILD C:ARE/PRESCHOOLING-loving  FOR RENT  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  NEEDED:  I have 3 friends who have NEVER  LA FORTUNE BALLROOM  
mom with certificate in early child­ Former NO student needs SIX  Five tix for Vandy-GA's or Stud's  seen a Notre Dame garneill Please  -it entertains as it educates!  
hood education and four years of  NICELY DECORATED ROOMS  Texas GAs. Name your price.  Call Mike@ X0610  help these poor, unfortunate sous  -provides fresh, positive, upbeat  
preschool teaching experience has  FOR RENT. F-BALL WKNDS,  Call Ryan at (608) 849-7702  with tix lor USC. Good prices paid  dating ideas while helping students  
openings for children 18 months  REASON. RATES, GREAT  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Need 4 USC GAs & 2 BC GAs.  lor any available tickets. Call Jim  deal with today's issues  
and older. Farmington Square  ATMOS., CONTIN. BRKFST, 2  Please call Cheryl x4883  x1739.  
home. 271-8437.  MILES OFF-CAMPUS. CALL KIM  WILL TRADE 4 USC GA + PRKG  AUDITIONS!  
277-8340.  FOR 4 TX GA. 708-948-8293  Need 2 USC GAs. Will buy or trade  TRADE  The Flanner/Sieglried players are  
SAVE THIS AD  for Vand, UT, or Navy GAs. Tom.  looking lor guys/gals to star in the  
WEEKEND ROOMS FOR  2 BDRM HOME FOR RENT NEAR  BC TICKETS NEEDED. PLEASE  233-1958  I have 2 Vandy & 4 Navy. Any  hilarious comedy "Lend Me a  
N.D./S.M.C. VISITORS.  CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTtES  CALL KATIE@ 219-271·9856.  combination lor 2 USC or 2 Texas.  Tenor". Interested should come to  
5. MIN. FROM CAMPUSES  272-6306  THANKYOUI  Needed: One or two GA's or  Call Brian  x3084  the Flenner penthouse on Tues. or  
219-277-2388  student tix for Texas. Call Katie at  Wed. from 8:30-1 0:30 PM  
EARN THOUSANDS PROCESS­ HOMES FOR RENT NEAR NO 232-2595  USC TICKETS NEEDED, STU­DENT OR GA. CALL KATIE AT  4-3812.  HELPII I need Air Force ticketslllll Also Purdue, Ohio State, and any  ........................  
ING MAIL. RUSH $1.00 AND  219-271-9856. THANK YOUI  For Sale: Vandy GA's  home GA's. Emily @ 273-9840.  Interested in playing  
SASE TO: SUVON  3 BDRM house, 5 min drive to  Mark 273-6048  field hockey this fall?  
ENTERPRISES 34 MERWIN ST.  ND campus. $150/rm/mon. plus  Need 2 Vandy GA's  Need 2 G.A Tixs lor Vandy game!  'Come to Knott at 7 p.m.  
SUITE 1 NORWALK, CT 06850  utility costs. Call 272-7376  x0652  I have tickets for every home game.  Please call x4021.  Tuesday lor more info.  
I need 2 TEXAS GA's. If you want  Call Christy at 272-9455  
Bed & bfst. lovely room with  Rm available in 3 bdrm home  $$$ NEED UT, USC, AND BC  to trade call277-3609.  I HAVE VANDERBILT STUD TIX  with any questions.  
private bath for two people (219­ $240 inc. utilities. 5-min. drive.  GA'S, WILL PAY BIG CASH OR  FOR SALE 1-6696  
272-5989) Parents or friends of  631-4809 or 232-7175.  TRADE VANDY GA'S CALL ERIC  HELPIII NEED TWO GA'S FOR  
~u~~~;·: FOUND~~  FOR SALE  OR NICK@ 232-1726$$$ WILL BUY TEXAS TICKETS 817· 738-5109  ANY HOME FOOTBALL GAME CALL BILL AT x3559 Need Texas GA and Stud. Tlx  HELP! HELP I HELP I I need 2 G.A.'s to ANY game alter Fall Break. Will pay ANY pricelll call Scott @ x1105  So it's come to this: Notre Dame Campus Ministry soliciting homo­sexuals in the personals! What next? I  
·  ·  1985 Honda Hatchback  Eric  233-4435  
LOST: MY DAILY (FRANKLIN)  $1000/Best offer 708-957-1546  DESPERATELY SEEKING 3 GA or  NEED 2 VANDY TIX  Come to the Grand Opening of  
PLANNER. CALL SCOTT AT 288­ (Chicago) Ask for Pete. New Tires  student tickets for TEXAS! Call  Need 1 Texas ticket-Student or  theWOMEN'S RESOURCE CEN·  
7281.  & Brakes.  Sarah 273-6875  GA. Call 284-5502  STUDENT OR GA  TERtii tonight 7pm 2nd floor of  
WILL PAY$$$$  LaFortune (inside Student  
I iost a sentimental gold chain bracelet late last weekll Please, if  TICKETS  Need 2 Vanderbilt GA's Call Ali x4541  ND student needs Texas and Navy tickets for family driving REALLY far  FOR BROTHER AND VANDY GIRLFRIED  Govemmentt) Food, Folks, Fun & inloi  
found, call MARl at X29691 :(  to get here- Please stop bylll  
Thanks.  Need 3 GA's for Vandy and 4 for  Please call Kerry @ 634-2925  CALL DOUG @ X-3686  
A DEVOTED IRISH FAN NEEDS  UT-call Jeff X1828  Interested in News Broadcasting?  
LOST! Gold/Black onyx ring on Fri.  GA'S TO ANY/ALL  !@#($"'"('$%@%  $ I need 2 Texas Ga's lor my Dad$  Join the WVFI News Dept, and  
9/1 In back of Apt.1635 Turtle  HOME/AWAY GAMES.  Need 2-4 tix for Texas. John 631­ 1 Vanderbilt GA lor saielll  $ Call Kate at 2900  keep others from being clueless.  
Creek. Great sentimental value.  219-232-0061,24 HAS.  7204; 233-3412  Call Meg 284-5006  $  Call Joe at 2036.  
Reward. Carolyn 271-2314.  @ 1$'"&&()1'$()'%"$@"(  
NEED STUDENT TIXIII  I NEED 2 VANDERBILT TICKETS.  I thought you could get kicked off  
WANTED  TICKET-MART, INC. WANTED  VANDY, OSU, and NAVY 233-2289  TRADE -2 BCNandblt GAs lor 2 USC/Texas GAs-Call219-273·  PLEASE CALL 1·800·366·1687 ASK FOR KATHY AT EXT.129  campus lor that sort of thing.  
GA'S FOR ANY/ALL  8379  ., @#$%"'&()+! @)_)#(%")&(  
Sales Help Needed -Long Distance  HOME/AWAY ND GAMES.  need 3 GA's 4 Vand. call x2855  I need to 2 TX GA'slll  Sorry deb Crotch itch is really busy  
Service needs Reps to sell to stu­ BUY'SELL 'TRADE  I NEED GA'S MEGAN X3890  Call Christy at X2950.  today!  
dents and their families. Can be  (219) 232-0058 • 24 HAS.  ALUM NEEDS TEXAS GAs. CALL  
done part time from room or apart­ (313)420·1208 OR (212)250-6513  BC BC BC BC BC BC BC BC BC  Need 1 USC Ticket Student or  I@#$#%$&(&"%$%#$%  
ment. Potential for immediate com­ (DAY ONLY).  I need BC GAs ...call x3975  GA. Call Anne x4896.  
missions, management bonuses  BC BC BC BC BC BC BC BC BC  Hey girls-don't forget  
and long term residual income. We  BUSINESSMAN NEEDS 2or4  Please help! I need 2 Vandy GAs  CA family needs 3 BC GAs.  I'm coming over lor dinner tonight at  
offer tremendous value to the cus­ ND SEASON TICKETS ANY OR  for my parents.$ call x1337.  GA FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE  Please!  6:40-1'11 meet you in BP  
tomer and training and support lor  ALL GAMES.  OHIO.ST.  CALL 2719464 OR 2887162  Call Clara  x4826  
our Reps. Call Mike at 616-521­ andWASHINGTON A MUST  TRADE? 2 Vandy GAs for 2 Texas,  !@#$"&"$(&"%#@$#%  
3620.  PLEASE HELP IF YOU CAN ........  cai14-1349 or 273-3924  1@#$%1@#$%1@#$%1@#$%1@#  
2771659  I NEED 2·4 OH STATE GA'S  I@#$%%&'('%&"$#$%"&  
Students wanted to promote the  DESPERATE for 4 usc gas  I HAVE GA TICKETS FOR TEXAS,  CALL JAY COLLECT @  
most killer Spring Break Trips on  I NEED TIXS TO ALL HOME  and 4 washington gas $$$  VANDY AND NAVY .... IF YOU  (614) 766-2012  OK·it's finally out of my systemll  
campus. Earn high $$ commissions  GAMES.272-6306  call ruth x37  HAVE TICKETS FOR USC AND  AFTER 7PM  Just remember: NO hook-up is bet­ 
and free tripsII Must be outgoing  WANT TO MAKE A TRADE .....  I@#$%1 @#$%! @#$%1 @#$%@#  ter than a BAD hook-upll  
and creative. Call immediately 1­ NEED TEXAS GA'S.  Need 2 BC GA's  Call Tom at: 4·3893  
800-SURFS-UP.  CALL ALISON 1-800-431-0010,  call Nort x1609  NEED 2--PREFERABL Y 4 G.A.'s  
EXT. 8796.  TO USC. GIVE MATT A CALL AT  
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­ I need 2 Vandy GA'sl  HEY  4·2120.  Attn: All nice, sexy, pees of  
Earn up to $2,000+/month on  Wealthy Alum needs tlx lor ail home  Call Martha @ X4092  I Need Vandy and Texas tickets  steel,single varsity athletesll  
Cruise Ships or Land-Tour compa­ games. Brett 272-7223  call239·7959 ask lor Mike  4 SALE: MARRIED STD TIX,  I'm looking for a man-6'1" or more  
nies. World travel. Seasonal & lull­ In Need of 2 Vandy Tickets  SECT. 30, TOM@273-4226  w/good endurancel-(you know what  
time employment available. No  Desperately need USC ticketslll  Students or G.A.'s  Need 2 Vandy GA's  I mean)Karen 284-5167  
experience necessary. For more  3 GA's or 2 GA's and 1 Student  Will Pay Good Money  Please call Jon @ X1103  WILL TRADE 4 BOSTON COL·  
Information call 1·206-834-0468  Please call Chris at 288-7843.  Call Tony@ x3530  LEGE GA'S FOR 4 USC GA'S OR  EXPERIENCED CHILD CARE  
ext. C55841  I NEED BC GA'S & STUD TIXI  WILL TRADE 2 BOSTON COL·  Full time, Mon.-Frt.,ND/SMC area  
Need 2 Texas GAs.  Need 4 Vandy tix.  CALL JOHN @ 234·5771  LEGE GA'S FOR 2 USC GA'S.  References available  
Part time work lor graduate student  Desperate and Wealthy!  Call Kate 277-9414  CALL TODD AT 4·1787.  Cail287-0116  
In electrical engineering. For more  Call 1-800-223-2440 Ext.4370  NEED TEXAS GAs-WILL PAY$$  
Info. call Dennis Cooper 237-9665.  $$$$$$  HELP MElli  please call Charlie x2243  NEED VANDERBILT GA'S FOR  Hey Golfers!  
I need 2 Texas GA's  FRIENDS FROM HOME. CALL  
Sitter needed $4.50/hr. Must drive.  need vanderbilt tickets  273-6162  II@VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY@II  JOE AT 4·1846.  The Social Justice Forum Is hosting  
Non-smoker. Mon. 12-5:30 + 1 Fail  GA's or married student tix  a four person golf scramble on  
weekend. Kids ages 6,8,& 14. 277­ call Dan @ 273-4780  NEED TICKETS  Stacy needs Tickets to Vanderbilt!  NEED: 1 OR MORE STD TIX  Tuesday Sept. 19, at the Notre  
9681  GAs are ideal. Help her out and  ANY GAME ESP. TEXAS  Dame golf course. The scramble  
Need G.A. Tix to NO-Texas. Call  4 VANDY G.A.'S  she will pay you the big bucks!  CALLX3232  begins at 2:30 PM. Prizes will be  
WANTEDII  Joe at 287-4561 before 10 p.m.  Call her at 219·634-4203 and make  given for the top teams. $15 per  
Authentic N.D. Stadium seat  Call Sean x2153  her an offer.  Need 2 Texas tickets. Call Tim  person. 4 person teams, but single  
offered by Athletic Dept.  NEED NO-TEXAS GA  x1950.  and double players are welcome.  
I DESPERATELY need to buy one  OR STUDENT TIX.  PAIR OF MARRIED STUD  Sign-ups in the Law School Lounge  
-but they're SOLD OUTI PLEASE HELP MEl $$$11  CALL DAVE 609-779-3876.  TIX BOOKLETS 4 sale call 273.0824  ????TRADE????  PERSONAL  12·1 PMtheweekofSept.11-15.  
Cali: Chris Carroll (Class Of '91)  Seeking to trade 2 Vandy GA's  Win FABULOUS prizes. and help  
M-F 8-5cst  ND DAD NEEDS TEXAS, USC &  Need BC or USC GAs -Call Jess  lor 2 Texas GA's  JAZZERCISE  us help kids.  
(708)325-8700  PURDUE GA'S.  @ X2785  call Jim/Stacie (614) 261-0056  
Thanks.  219-422-6088.  IT'S A FUN WAY TO GET FIT  College Football Hall of Fame  
Student season tickets for sale. Call  Need 2 GA's lor the Texas game.  & STAY THAT WAY.  Needs Volunteers  
Part-time nanny needed. $7/hr.  STUDENT OR GA NEEDED FOR  277-7876.  Will pay $$$$'s. Call Tom X-1105.  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  Call 235·9999  
2:30-6:30 any aft. Must drive. Call  BC ... WILL PAY LOTS$$$$  CALL 277-Q111 FOR MORE INFO.  
21>7-1411 evens.  CALL 4-4828  I NEED TXS GA'S MEGAN X3890  NEED 1-7 TEXAS GA'S. X1899  see CLASS/ page 18  

page 14 The Observer • FOOTBALL 
•NFL 
Even without Deion, Cowboys still too much for the Broncos 
Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas 
After a week in which the Cowboys snagged Deion Sanders and a controversial corporate sponsor, Troy Aikman and Emmitt Smith just went out and did their usual. 
Aikman accounted for three touchdowns and Smith rushed for over 100 yards and scored a touchdown Sunday as Dallas defeated the Denver Broncos 31-21. 
Aikman, who gave up some of his salary this season so Sanders could squeeze under the salary cap, started slow and finished fast as he threw two touchdown passes and jumped like a springboard diver for another. 
Smith, who needed smelling salts after a particularly hard hit, came back to score his 80th career touchdown on a 1-yard run. Smith, who had four touch­downs in a 35-0 victory Monday night over the Giants, rushed 26 times for 114 yards. 
For Dallas (2-0), it was the 26th victory in the last 32 regu­lar-season games. The contest was played at a Texas Stadium decked o'ut with logos from Nike, the company whose spon­sorship of the Cowboys angered the NFL. 
John Elway threw touchdown 
passes of 11 and 59 yards to 
Anthony Miller as the Dallas 
secondary showed signs of 
needing Sanders as soon as pos­
sible. 
However, Larry Brown inter­
cepted Elway and Charles Haley 
had two sacks as the Denver 
offense failed to match Dallas' 
firepower. 
Miller scored a third touch­
down on a 3-yard pass from 
Deion daze on a big second quarter play provided by the defense to finally get on the board against the Broncos (1-1). 
Tackle Chad Hennings tipped an Elway pass which cor­nerback Brown intercepted and returned 18 yards to the Denver 
6. Two plays later from the 5, Aikman rolled out and hit full­back Daryl Johnston for the touchdown. 
Aikman put together a 93­yard drive in 10 plays to put Dallas ahead 14-0. Passes of 29 and 16 yards to Michael Irvin and a 14-yarder to Smith put Dallas on the Denver 2. From there, Aikman rolled out again, couldn't find a receiver and dove into the end zone over the tackle of Ray Crockett. 
Elway, frustrated for most of the first half, threw an 11-yard touchdown pass to Miller as Denver trailed 14-7 at halftime. 
Elway, now 1-1 against Dallas, hit 11 of 24 passes for 152 yards. Aikman completed 18 of131 for 196 yards. 
Colts 27, Jets 24 (OT) 
EAST RUTHERFORD. N.J. 
The Indianapolis Colts bum­
bled their way into a 21-point 
hole. The New York Jets then 
lifted them out of it and Jim 
Harbaugh passed them to victo­
ry. 
The Colts, behind backup 
quarterback Harbaugh's pass­
ing, rallied for the second 
straight week. They lost in over­
time to Cincinnati last week. 
This time, they won 27-24 as 
Mike Cofer hit a 52-yard field 
goal with 4:27 gone in the extra 
session. 
Harbaugh, whose mobility let 
him avoid pressure time and 
for both teams. Until late in the third quarter, the Colts (1-1) made the big mistakes, setting up nearly all of New York's points. Then the Jets (0-2) began dropping the ball and committing silly penalties. 
The killer was Boomer Esiason's fumble of a snap at the Colts' 23 with 5 1/2 minutes left and the Jets approaching field-goal range. Harbaugh drove the Colts 75 yards in seven plays to tie it 24-24. 
At the end of an 11-yard scramble by Harbaugh, Donald Evans drew a penalty for a hit out of bounds, sending the ball to the Jets' 14. Harbaugh hit a 
· wide-open Marshall Faulk on the next play for the score. Earlier in the fourth quarter, Sean Dawkins caught a 15-yard TD pass, finishing an 80-yard drive. The Colts got back into it when Tony Bennett picked up Ronald Moore's fumble and scooted 32 yards for a touch­down late in the third quarter. Before that, Jets wide receivers Charles Wilson and Wayne Chrebet each caught touchdown passes and a defense paced by Wilber Marshall and Otis Smith con­verted turnovers into touch­downs for a 24-3 edge. All four of them are newcomers to the Jets. The Jets put together a pre­cise 9-minute drive to open the game, scoring on Wilson's leap­ing catch of a 5-yard pass from Esiason. Smith then picked off Erickson's poor pass, thrown behind Faulk, and cut to the right sideline for a 49-yard interception return. 

Monday, September 11, 1995 

Register in Advance at RecSports The fee is $8.00 and Space is Limited Helmets are Required Depart Library Circle at 10:00 Return to Library Circle at 5:00 
;Q_,_~ 
EUCHARISTIC MINISTRY WORKSHOPS 
Tuesday, September 12 10:00 pm Sunday, October 1 2:30pm IN THE BASILICA OF THE SACRED HEART 
Yearly participation in one of these workshops is mandatory for those who wish to be Eucharistic Ministers. 

0MPUS 
MINISTRY 
~ .........--~ 
Monday, September 11, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• PGA GOLF 
O'Meara shines in sudden death to win Canadian Open 
By HARRY ATKINS 
Asssociatod Pross 
OAKVILLE, Ontario 
Hard-charging Mark O'Meara played mistake-free golf in a stirring match with his friend Bob Lohr, winning the Canadian Open when Loin bogeyed the first playoff hole Sunday. 
It was the second PGA Tour victory of the season for the unflappable O'Meara, who shot a bogey-free, final-round 67 for 14-under-par 274 at Glen Abbey Golf Club in the suburbs of Toronto. 
Lohr, who took a three-stroke lead into Sunday's fourth round, had three bogeys in his round of 70, but birdied three of the final four holes to force the playoff. Two of Lohr's bogeys came in a three-hole stretch of the five valley holes, where O'Meara charged into a three-stroke lead with five holes to play. 
The playoff began on No. 18, a 508-yard, par-5. Lohr, using a fairway wood, hit his second shot into the pond that guards the green. O'Meara, playing it safe, laid up and hit a wedge within 25 feet of the pin with his third shot. 
Lohr's attempt to save par from about 28 feet curled below the cup. O'Meara then hit a nice lag putt and got down in two for 

EARN CASH by DONATING 
You could earn: 
$30°0atter your first plasma donation! 
$15°0  if you donate alone  
+$ 5°0  if you show college 1.0. (first visit)  
+$1 000  per person if you recruit someone and they donate  

$30°0 TOTAL! Help Us Save Lives 
Must be 18 years old; proof of current address with photo I. D. 
at No. 12, a par-3. Lohr, from an elevated tee, left his tee shot short of the green and was unable to save par. 
O'Meara continued his charge on No. 13. the lirst of three par­5s on the homeward nine. by curling in a 15-foot downhill birdie putt to go 14-under and two strokes ahead. 
Lohr pushed his second shot at No. 14 into some thick rough on the right side of the green. 
Irish 
continued from page 24 
injury of Senior setter Shannon Tuttle. 
"Our team chemistry is so good this year," Lee said. "We are very focused on maintain­ing our top-ten ranking and achieving the goals we have set for ourselves." 
The Irish have come one step closer to achieving their goals with the Big Four victories this weekend. They defeated Kentucky 15-10, 13-15, 17-15, and 15-12 on Saturday morn­ing and then capped off the weekend with a 15-17, 15-11, 10-15, 15-4, and 15-7 victory over Louisvill~ Saturday night. 
Despite the unexpected dura­tion of the matches, Coach Brown credits her team with its response to the pressure placed on them. • 
"As the season goes on, we will become more consistent," Brown said. 
"But when our backs were against the wall this weekend, we played very competitive." 

COME TO: AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL 515 LINCOLNWAY WEST SOUTH BEND, IN 46601-1117 
HOURS: T-F: 9-6 SAT: 8-5 234-6010 
the lOth triumph of his career which began in 1981. 
It was O'Meara's sixth playoff, the third for Lohr. O'Meara is 2-4 in overtime affairs and Lohr 1-2. 
Their closest pursuers includ­ed defending champion Nick Price, Hal Sutton, Bob Tway and Andrew Magee. But they might as well have been playing on another planet. All the action involved O'Meara and Lohr, whose lone tour victory came in the 1988 Disney Classic. 
Price, winless since last year's tournament, drew loud applause from the fans when he birdied the final two holes to finish at 68 for 277. He won the British Open, PGA and four regular tour events in 1994. 
Sutton closed with a 69 to fin­ish four back at 278. Magee and Bill Glasson were at 280, Magee on a 71 and Glasson on a 70. 
O'Meara, who won the Honda Classic in March, has a history of closing fast. He earned more than half of the $214,070 he took home in 1994 during the final two months of the season. The $234,000 winner's share of the $1.3 million purse Sunday hiked his 1995 earnings to $780,729, topping his previous career-high of $759,648 in 1992. 
This year's charge began in the PGA Championship where O'Meara was two strokes off the lead entering the final round and finished sixth. Last week, he tied for lOth in the Milwaukee Open. 
The match between O'Meara and Lohr was even after 11 holes with both at 13-under. O'Meara, with only his 12th putt of the day, rolled home a 20-footer for birdie while Lohr made par-4. 
O'Meara took the lead for the first time with a 6-foot par putt 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications: 
Photo Editor 
Please submit a one page statement of intent and resume to John Lucas, Editor-in-Chief, by Wednesday, September 13. Calll-4542 with any questions. 
•Available for $1 0 at LaFortune info desk 
•Includes ticket and bus ride to and from the same 
•Bus leaves at 3:30 ftentativeJ from the JACC Parkins lot -Gate 1 0 
SePtember 12 -Cubs vs. Dodi!ers 

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, September 11, 1995 
• BASEBAll 
San Francisco dents Chicago wildcard hopes 
I 
I 
Happy 21st Birth Shannon Sue 
Finally... ...old enough to go play with all your friends! 
GEORGE &THE FREA 
A fUNKY PENNY TUESDAY PRIVATE COLLEGE NIGHT PARTY 
' 
•Open 
only to NO, SMC, & HCC Students,Staff, and guests 

•Upper 
grilllevel18 and over•lower bar level 21 and over 

•Student 
ID & driver's license required for lower level. 


•$5 donation before 11 pm • $6 after 11 pm. 
•No admittance to anyone under 21 after 11 pm (unless in line before the cut off) 

spicy mouth-watering food and other specials a guest D)s playing during band breaks. 
For info on giving your own private party at jazzman's call 233-8505 Mon -Sat 4pm-3am 
Every Tuesday is 
FUNKY PENNY TUESDAY PRIVATE COLLEGE NIGHT 
No admittance without Student/Staff ID! I 
The 1st 
Prelaw Society Meeting 
7 p.m. September 11, 1995 Room 120 Law School All Juniors & Seniors Should Attend 
Everyone Welcome ! 

By MIKE NADEL 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
Deion Sanders, showing that he's a pretty good baseball player, too, tied his career high with four hits Sunday as the San Francisco Giants completed a three-game sweep of the Cubs with an 8-7 victory. 
William VanLandingham {6­
3) allowed four hits and one earned run in five innings before leaving with a strained groin muscle. The Giants have won nine of 12 to keep alive their slim postseason hopes. 
Rod Beck pitched the ninth 
Soccer 
continued from page 24 
with a dominating 25-3 edge in shots on goal, and the second half effort pleased head coach Mike Berticelli. 
"We needed the first half to sort out what they were doing defensively," commented Berticelli. "We talked about it at half-time, and made the nec­essary adjustments. We were patient, and let things open up. I was most pleased that the team was able to make the ad­justments." 
Sunday's game, the first ever Big East contest for the Irish, proved to be much more of a challenge for the team. Lanza egain proved his value to the team, as he had a hand in all three of the Irish goals, and Bocklage continued to emerge as a scoring threat. 
and gave up Scott Bullet's two­run homer but held on for his 29th save. 
San Francisco remained 5 1/2 games back in the NL West and still trail five teams in the wild­card race. One of those teams is Chicago, which began the day four games back. The Cubs, whose 24-34 home record is the league's worst, have lost four straight games and five of six. 
One day after signing a reported $30 million, five-year contract to play football for the Dallas Cowboys after the base­ball season, Sanders doubled, 
Bocklage put the Irish on the board with a diving header ofT a pretty Lanza assist 20:22 into the game, and Lanza struck again just 15 seconds later when he stole the ball off the Syracuse kickoff and weaved through the defense to make it 2-0. 
The Irish played a solid game defensively all day, with Tony Capasso effectively shutting down Syracuse freshman phe­nom Jeff Knittel in the middle, and both Peter Van de Ven and Greg Velho playing well in goal. The Notre Dame defense has proved quite stingy in the sea­son's first three games, al­lowing the Irish to outscore the opposition by an 18-0 margin. 
Junior midfielder Chris Mathis put the game on ice when he connected from five yards out to push the Notre Dame lead to 3-0 with less than five minutes remaining. 
The loss was the first of the singled three times and scored twice. That comes on the heels of Saturday's three-hit game and raised his average to .333 during the last 29 games. 
Sanders was booed re­peatedly by Chicago fans, who didn't act derisively toward any other San Francisco players. 
Sanders had plenty of help Sunday as the Giants pounded Steve Trachsel {6-11) and four relievers for 12 hits. Ex-Cub Glenallen Hill homered, dou­bled, drove in two runs and scored twice. Mark Carreon had a two-run double. Barry Bonds, Kirt Wanwaring, Matt Williams and John Patterson 
season for the Orangemen, and the Irish outshot Syracuse 15­12 in the contest. 
"Obviously, with this being the first Big East game, I was pleased with the result," said Berticelli. "We came out very strong in the first half, but kind of slacked off in the second half. Overall, I thought we played very well, creating a lot of chances and finishing ofT our shots well. As young as we are, our players are doing a good job." 
The Irish's next two games put them into the thick of the Big East race, as they travel to New Jersey next weekend for matches against Seton Hall and Rutgers University. 
If you see sports happening, call The Observer at 1-4543 
University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 
c= 
ANGERS, FRANCE 
1996 -97 Academic Year 
11 A Day in the Life of an Angcvin11 With Professor Paul McDowell 
TUESDAY SEI'TEMllER 12, 1995 
7:00 l'.M. ROOM 117 O'Shaughnessy 
Returning students will be on hand to answer questions Applications will he available 
ALL ARE WELCOME! 
also drove in runs. 
Howard Johnson and Mark Parent homered for the Cubs. Johnson's two-run drive in the sixth off Jose Bautista cut Chicago's deficit to 6-4 but San Francisco regained control with a two-run seventh that included Hill's homer, his 20th, and Pat­terson's pinch-hit RBI single. Notes: In 24 career day games, VanLandingham is 12-0. He's also unbeaten at home {9-0) and evened his road mark to 5­5 with Sunday's win .... The Cubs have committed 10 errors during their 1-5 slump.... In a pregame ceremony, the National League retired the numbers 1, 2 and 3 in honor of Hall of Fame umpires Bill Klem, Jocko Conlan and AI Barlick. 

Monday, September II, 1995 
The Observer· SPORTS page 17 
• SAINT MARY'S SOCCER • TENNIS 
Belles continue to struggle Sampras defeats Agassi 
By NICOLE BORDA with an opponent. The Belles for the Belles. Sophomore San­
for third U.S. Open title 
Saint Mary's.Spom Writer dropped the (soccer) match 2-1. dra Gass thought that her team 
Ohio Wesleyan scored in the performed well. By STEVE WILSTEIN he put on brilliant show of his 
For the Belles, this season first half and the Belles came "These two games were Associated Press power, control and resilience was supposed to be different. back with a goal from senior tough losses. We definitely under pressure that he dedi­With a new coach and a new Tiffany Raczynski. But Saint played better. It was just bad NEW YORK cated to his absent and ailing attitude Saint Mary's planned Mary's couldn't hold on. luck," she said. Knuckles bleeding, aces knif­coach, Tim Gullikson. to put last season's 4-12 record "We should have beat them. It seems certain that head ing through the whipping wind, behind them. But with a record We have better skills and we're coach Solomon Scholz will be Pete Sampras outlasted Andre "That's for you, Timmy," of 1-3 to start off this year, just not capitalizing on them," reevaluating the rest of the sea­Agassi to capture a third U.S. Sampras said to the television things are not looking up. Cernanec said. son. However no one knows for Open title Sunday and gain the camera, knowing Gullikson was 
The Belles are playing physi­Yesterday the Belles went up sure just how he plans to turn No. 1 ranking in the esteem of watching back horne in subur­cal in an attempt to make up against Denison. this season around for the his greatest rival, if not the ban Chicago. "Wish you were for their lack of size. However, Saint Mary's Belles. rankings themselves. here." 
In Saturday's game against found themselves suffering "I have told my team that our One point, a magnificent rally Ohio Wesleyan, Freshman Mon­from the same problem they've goal is to win," Scholz said at Sampras spilled blood diving of 22 shots that sent them both ica Cernanec, who got the start had in previous games. The the start of the season. What for a volley, rocked Agassi with scurrying from side to side, when junior Brigid Keyes suf­ball wasn't making it to the the remainder of the season 24 aces, and when they en­made all the difference in the fered an injury to her knee, goal. will bring for the Belles is still gaged in the most crucial base­first set and, ultimately, the wound up in a swinging match The game ended in a 1-0 loss in question. line rallies beat the defending match. 
September Fajita/'Rita Monday Madness .~~...\"'' 
Celebrate the final days of summer 
every Monday at Chili's with a feast of "F . . c T " full
a)ltas ror .two ... a pound of delicious, piping hot chicken or beef served sizzlin' with an array of fresh ftxings that you wrap in a steaming tortilla. 
FAJITAS FOR TWO 
ONLY $10.00 
... 
This offer is good every Monday, all day throughout the month of September. 
c ON GRAPE ROAD 
JOIN THE OFFICIAL TOASTMASTERS INTERNATIONAL 

PIZZA PARTY & INFO MEETING MONDAY, SEPT. 11, 1995 LEMANS BOARDROOM 9:00P.M. 
ALL ARE WELCOME ! 
champion at his own game to A backhand crosscourt by win 6-4, 6-3, 4-6, 7-5, two Sampras ended that rally, months after taking his third broke Agassi and closed out a
Please Recycle 
straight Wimbledon. set in 'fhich Agassi had yielded Right down to the end, when only two points in his first four 
Sarnpras served his 142nd ace service games. of the tournament at 120 mph, It was a game that showed both the best of Sampras and 
The Observer 

the worst of Agassi, with a little luck thrown in. Sampras reached his first break point with a forehand return that clipped the net cord and trick­led over out of Agassi's reach. Agassi's service winner 
brought it back to deuce, but he went to break-point again 
Sweaters, Wall Hangings, Jewelry, Accessories, and Much Morel 
Guatemala•Peru•Mexico•Nepai•Thailand•lndia•Ecuador 
when he clubbed an easy over­head 10 feet lo'llg. Agassi thought he'd even it
Incredible Pricesl 
up again when he got Sampras running desperately in a base­line duel. Instead. it was 
•3"l. of profits funds the education of 3 Guatemalan children 
(up to $1500 for 1995) 
Sampras who put away that 
•ANY coins tossed in our jar-Greatly Appreciated! They add upl 
last shot of the longest rally, and Agassi who could only
Notre Dame St. Mary'a 
stare at it and hang his head. 
Nov. 27-Dec.2 ONLYI September 12 -15 
In front of Haggar • Windy or Rainy W~ath~r -L~Man6 Hall 
j I 
Monday, September 11, 1995
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS 
•NFL 
Oakland too much for Washington youth 
By JOSEPH WHITE 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
No longer obsessed with the 
long ball, the Oakland Raiders offense took their time. A well­.rested defense responded by keeping the Washington Redskins out of the end zone in 
a 20-8 victory Sunday. 
Jeff Hostetler, content to 
throw screens and underneath 
patterns against a tough Red­
skins secondary, had two 
touchdown passes but only one 
completion for more than 20 
yards as the Raiders new, ball­
control game ate up the clock 
and kept the crowd noise down 
at RFK Stadium. 
"It's no use hitting your head 
against a stone wall," said 
Hostetler, 22 of 29 for 205 · 
yards. "They let us take what 
~e wanteq. We spread the ball 
around, went underneath. We 
took a couple of shots down­
field, but after that we played 
smart football." 
For the second consecutive 
week, Hostetler completed 
passes to nine different re­
ceivers. With several options 
Class 
continued from page 13 
Lisa, Lisa, Lisa, Don't you need to spend more time study­ing and less time kissing ungentlemanly boys??????????? Who's next on your list-James, the big crotchy itchers T N R, or maybe FOO? Keep up the good work-you're making me look bad. 
!@$@!%$@!"$M@$@!%!@$@!$@! 
I NEED TXS GA'S MEGAN X3890 
Don't Miss it! George and the Freaks ­
tomorrow night at Jazzmans. 
. '' 1@%1(%@&%@&(#@1($@!$'(@#!@( 
STEPH-Did you do anything crazy this weekend????? You know what I mean! 
#@%@#%@#%@#%#@%@#%#@ 
HEY-You're just plain MEAN­M-E-A-N. Mean. 
@#&%$!&$'&%!'&%(!#&%#'&(%#&( 
GOLEWBAGI 

•ll'd olllllllklla (II) t00,4:30,7:00,8:30 ~ 1111111 (G) 1:05,3:)0,5:15,7:2D,8:20 •Ill' Jlkylllllllll H~-13) 1:15,3:15,5:20,7:30,8:55 •Bayr.tiiiiUIJII (8) 8:00,11t.2D 
lllllllwUckBIKPG-13) 1:35,3:45,5:45 •1111111' Sill 2(8) 1:18,3:25,5:38,7:511,10:00 
for every play, he was able to . get rid of the ball with!lut being sacked -even though the line has lost two starters to injuries. 
"There's going to be a time 
when we play a team that stops 
those underneath patterns," 
said Hosteter. who received a 
warm handshake from owner 
Al Davis in the locker room. 
"Then we'll be able to go for 
long ones." 
Three of the Raiders scoring 
drives lasted 18, 9, and 10 
plays. The first one, which cul­
minated in a Cole Ford field 
goal, went 89 yards and con­
sumed more than 11 minutes. 
"We're not running out for a 
lot of long ones," coach Mike 
White said. "But the percentage 
plays and the ball-control is 
what we're working toward. 
That's going to be our style and Raiders had only two penalties ves, but buckled down when it for 14 yards. The defense, on mattered. the field nearly 10 minutes less "Anytime you can keep a than the offense, allowed the team out of the end zone, it Redskins to sustain a few dri-builds character, even for late in the season," said defensive tackle Jerry Ball, who created the turnover'that led to the Raiders go-ahead drive. 

The Raiders (2-0) have allowed just 13 points in their first two games. 
Hostetler's scoring passes, both in the second half, typified the Raiders attack: a 1-yard strike to tight end Andrew Glover and 8 yards to running back Derrick Fenner. Another of his targets was Harvey Williams, whose two receptions for 29 yards augmented an 84­yard rushing day by the fifth­year running back. 
The Redskins had a few promising drives of their own, but Gus Frerotte -starting for Heath Shuler -couldn't get his team any closer than a failed fourth-down run attempt. 
hopefully we can make some big plays, too. 
"It's easier to throw for 50 yards than to make those small gains, but (we want) to be effi­cient and not make mistakes, not get a lot of penalties, and to allow our defense to play and play with a little rest." 
The once notoriously nasty 
There is still lime Ia redeem yourselves 
Rat, Davie, and Hutch are the best prod/sports team around!! 
Leazer loves Edward -----hands ALMOST 
Order your Junior Class Dog Books
as much as she loves her monkey! That's right the Women Are Smarter!! I 
now for only $15.00 
Come home, Ben!! There is no Kaiser Zoseyl 
Deadline September 22, 1995 
Too bad Margie didn't have an f fun !II Better luck next time. 
Watch your mailbox for order forms or call 
He's gone from totally geek to totally chic. 
the class office at 1-5117 for more information. 
'1 hadagoodtime to~ht... letSdoIt~ sometime. IllCall you~' 
(yeah, right) 
Sound familiar? Tired of the same old dates with over 250 new ideas for dates that are fun, cheap and 
•NIL 
lap. SeoiJr T~12:55, 3:05,5:10,7:35,8:45 the same old endings? Now it doesn't have to be safe, and a new feeling of confidence in relation­that way. The answer is Creative Dating. ships.

•
Ab!ID DIU Ar1ilrl (PG) uo, 3:30, 5:35, 7:40, 8:50 


Creative Dating is a high-energy, audience-partic­Creative Dating entertains as it educates-it pro­
•ne ~!PGlt:45,4:15,1:1o. a:40 
ipation workshop, in which our dynamic presenters vides fresh, positive, upbeat, alternative dating ideas, 
•CDIIea (PG-13) 7:25,8:35 
will expand your dating horizons, while helping students deal with today's issues. 
• IE lllbylhiBrs CIOO (PG)1:30, 3:35, 5:25 
During this interactive session, you'll discover Don't just settle for another predictable date! 
•A ~~ 1111118 Clluls (PG-13) 1:00,3:20,5:40,7:55,10:10 

Date: Wed., Sept. 13 Time: 8:00p.m. Place: LaFortune Ballroom Sponsor: Student Activities 
$1 7~ ALL SEATS ll~~OflE & Pt.1 • flO PA5Sb SUPW$AI'H13 t.C-CEPTEO 

The Observer • TODAY 
DAVE KELLETT r;:::=:::==::=:;----~;=;==::;::::=:;~=;:==;:::;---;:::::::--;::--:;::;::::::;-----,rr; Uc'1.'l~E \3c~'}I  YOUR HOROSCOPE  JEANE DIXON  
~"'CAN ~ET  
MONDAY, Sfo:JYfEMHER II, 1995  
(For your personalized daily Jeane Dixon horoscope, has~d on your own date of birth, call I -900-9ll8-7788. Your phone company will bill you 99  

cents a minute.) 
HAPPY HIHTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Your employment horizons widen when you learn new skills. Laund1 an educational project in early fall. December is the best time 10 travel for business or pleasur~. Romamic interludes add to your holiday bliss. Those who are self-employed will reap higher profits once 1996 gets underway. Build savings. Next sum­mer could bring new living arrange­ments. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON
0\1-\~R k\OS' GPMES A.R'C. AlL '5\JC\.\ I\ \SORt..' 
Ul-\, ITR I=RH: 10 
THIS DAY: singer Harry Connick, 
11-\t'{'IJE G::JITf... \-lf>,I/E R-.JLES f>,NI) TK'E'{ G<YIIf>., K~£? SCoRt: t 
1-\ll..l<r-.\ON\Z.E Win\ 
Jr., singer Lola Falana, mystery CALI/1!'-IBA.lL I'S \38\t.R 13'( ~i\R! 
author William X. Kienzle, foothall ITS ~1:1/E:.R -n-11:: '51\Mt.! \~ 11-LWI\'{S 13\Z.ARR'C I 
\-\0\3\3ES ON -n-1£. 
legend Bear Bryant. 
R\JM\o\fo.. \\J~ T\JMS. 
iOO !X)t-1'\ t-Iff.\) f... IE/1-r-.\ OR II-Rl::ITREE t '(OlJ ~NOW T\-111-T ITS Gl<t.!>.T, '(f>,\)')t_ ':SJ1NN'o\t.D At:TI.R \V\E .' IF '100 Wf..~~ ... ~~Vt'....-:­
~MJ~~ 
I'f"\ CHECKING THE BUILDING 
1-\AVE YOU BEEN FEEliNG FOR ENVlRONI"\ENTAL S Tlf\ED I NERVOUS 
~ 
HAZARDS. ! 
AND DISORIENTED? 
I 
IIi 
ACROSS 25 One more 53 Miler Sebastian 2& Louts 54 Pequod's
1 Muscle malady 28 Muscle malady captain
II Fitzgerald and 57 Band member's others 29 Parallel to instrument10 Computer-drive 30 Evening's 59 It's off-limits 
capacity, in opposite ao Carry
slang 31 In the center of 14 Weaver's 
&1 Like oxfords 35 Ashen 
apparatus &2 "What's gotten 
3& Discharge, as a 
--you?"
til Intimidate 
liquid 18 With the stroke 
&3 Ed of "Daniel 39 Flightless bird 
Boone" 40 Gladly 
of­
84 1923 Literature 42 Butter squares Nobelist 17 At times it's a 
stretch 43 Boston airport 65 Average marks 
18 Secretary's instrument 
411 Doesn't include 
20 Opening for a 47 Turned into 
DOWN 
coin 41 Post office 21 Tick off deliveries 
1"-WeiiThat Ends Well" 
22 New York's -­51 Expletive Mansion replacement 2 Snake's shape 
23 Evergreens 52 Titillate 3 Punster's instrument 4 Feeling ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 5 Whirling currents a Dens 7 Gambler's need a Industrious worker 9 Not moving 

1!1111-.,:..+=-+~ ·~E-R 10 Gandhi's title 
._II!!U~mmmn~••• 11 Geologic time 

II! 12 Wish granter .-.~-,+-'-l 13 Show of contempt -7+=-+::=:-+--::...j 19 U.S. Open 
players, usually -=+-::+.+:+::+:::+=-+7-=-8 24 Yuletide drinks •-;-;c-;+.;~+.+.::-+:::-r.::-i 25 "--moi le 
deluge" 26 Two-master 27Jai-­2B Does prelaundry 
work 
30 Exams for future 
drs. 32 Cheerleader's instrument 
33 Muslim leader 
34 Sand formation 37 Neurontin treats 
it 38 Gen. Robt _ 
The Observer 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
.Join the more than 13,000 readers who have 
found The Observer an indispensible link to the 
two campuses. Please complete the accompany­
ing form and mail it today to receive The 
Observer in your home. 
ARIES (March 21-April I9): The stage is set for a daring corpo­rate move. Be willing to take on new responsibilities. A chum may harbor romantic feelings for you. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Disappointment can be hard to han­dle. Luckily, you are very resilient' Plunging into a work project will take your mind off an emotional upset. Co-workers are more helpful than in the past. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Someone you meet socially, goes all out to woo you. A flirtation could prove short-lived. Concentrate on more solid types. Do not let self­doubt limit your thinking. 
YOU JUST IF YOU START 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Romance is a source of delight' Guard against getting carried away 
OESCRlf?,ED FE.ELI~ 
MY ENTIRE 
GOOD, RUN 
by your good fortune. Do not he 
gullible, either. Someone may try to
CAREER,. 
FOR THE EXIT 
pull a fast one. Fall back on an alter­native business plan. LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Try to
~ 
bring a spiritual 4uality to your work now. Do what you know is right. Networking provides new job leads. Follow up tips by fax or mail. Share confidences with your nearest and dearest 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Relationship issues heat up. Although a new alliance is possihll', your timing may be off. Why not play things cool for a while? Excr· cise greater self-control 111 money rnattcr!\. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Your intellect is a better guide than your heart where money is concerned. Double-check someone's facts and figures. You need to choose your words carefully when addressing authority figures. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Learn to ~mticipatc an employer's re4uests. Major decisions re4uire very careful thought. Your high hopes for romance and marriage will be met. Show greater apprecia· lion for your partner's support. 
SA(;ITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Back off: Let important people come to you. Use the fax and tele­phone to save time and money spent on travel; clients will understand. Young people look to you for sage advice. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You are gifted at e~pressing what you feeL An attentive audience applauds enthusiastically. Look beyond surfac~ appearances when you meet someone new. First impressions can be deceiving. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Fcb. 18): It might be best to treat a minor inci­dent as a serious matter. Concentrate on building a better cash reserve. A romantic relationship will improve if you make fewer demands. Stick to your health regimen. 
I'ISCES (feb. 19-March 20): Keep to a tight work schedule even if others offer tempting distractiom. Neglecting your duties could jeopar­dize your reputation for reliability. Refuse to let others blame you foo their mistakes. Stand up for your self! 
• OF INTEREST 
Post-Graduate Service Opportunities will be tht~ subject of a general information session tonight from 5­6 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. 
Science Placement Night will be held at 7 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Representatives from three companies will discuss career options, job search techniques, and employment trends for their industry and organization. Allstate Insurance Company (casual· ty actuarial options), Sigma Chemical Company (devel­oping, manufacturing and distributing research bio· chemicals), and Industrial Safety and Environmental Services, Inc. (starting. owning, and working in a small consulting firm). At 8 p.m. a typical science interview will be demonstrated, followed by an opportunity to meet the company representatives and ask questions. Open to all interested students. It is sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 
A ·Food Service Training Workshop will be held today at 4, Tuesday, Sept. 12, and Tuesday, Sept. 26 
Alcoholics Anonymous will be meeting at Dalloway's Coffeehouse at Saint Mary's every f/riday at 10:00 a.m.. 
41 Zeroes in (on) 5o Way togo 
•MENU 
44 Relating to the 51 Lisa of "The sea Cosby Show" 
Notre Dame 
North South
53 Pepsi, e.g. 
46 Natural table 55 Sometimes it's 
Grilled Ham and Cheese Meatloaf
47 Runs, as a color upped 
Pasta Alia Carbonara Clam Strips 
48 Trattoria plateful 5& Opposite of 
Turkey Steak Linguine with Pesto 
49 Woolf's "--of huzzahs One's Own" 58 Garden tool 
Saint Mary's Roast Loin of Pork Lasagna Blanco 
Get answers to any three clues 
Oven Browned Potatoes 
by touch-tone phone: 1·900·420· 5656 (75¢ each minute). 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $70 for one academic year 
0.Enclo.sed is $40 for one semester Name ____________________________________________ 
Address ______________________________________ City--------State _____ Zip_______ 
• 
, 

r ------~-------~---­
Fo~tball 
1995> 
Irish hold off feisty Boilermakers 

SPORTS 
• MEN's SocceR 
.. 
Irish notch first Big East victory 
By DYLAN BARMMER 
Spons Writer 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team had a productive week­end, using their time off from classes to win two games, push­ing their record to 3-0. The victories, 7-0 over Valparaiso 
. on Friday night and 3-0 over S~racuse ·on Sunday afternoon, included a triumph in their first ever Big Easy matchup, and no doubt helped the Irish cause in the ISAA soccer poll. The currently 23rd ranked Irish came into Friday night's contest with Valparaiso looking to extend their series lead over the Crusaders to 23-0. While the outcome was extremely one-sided, the Crusaders dis­played a great deal of resolve in the first half, as the Irish held only a 1-0 lead following the end of the first 45 minutes of play. Notre Dame's first half goal came just 1:30 into the match, when the red-hot Bill Lanza took the ball off an Irish throw-
in and fired a low shot past an out of position Aaron Rhame. That would be all that Rhame would allow in the first half, however, as the freshman goalie made a couple of spec­tacular saves, and the Valparaiso defense kept the Irish attack visibly off-balance. 
The second half was a differ­ent story altogether, as the Irish deciphered the Valparaiso defense and exploded for 6 goals, including two by fresh­man forward Ben Bocklage, who showed considerable signs this weekend of being a thorn in the side of Irish opponents for years to come. 
And a very large thorn indeed. The 6-3, 190 pound Bocklage opened the Notre Dame floodgates in the second half when he took a beautiful pass from Lanza just minutes into the half and put the ball past an outstretched Rhame for his first career goal. 
Team captain Tony Capasso scored the Irish's third goal when he went top shelf on the 
outmanned Rhame, and then forward Josh Landman took over. 
Landman, who entered his senior season as a midfielder with zero career goals, has tal­lied four in just three games as a reserve forward this season. His third career goal came when he knocked the ball into the lower left corner to stake the Irish to a 4-0 lead. When the Irish went up 5-0 on a Brian Engesser header (just the defender's second career goal), it was Landman who provided the assist, and when the Irish pushed their lead to 6-0, they did so on a pretty chip shot by Landman. 
Both Landman and Bocklage would finish the game with two goals apiece, as Bocklage scored Notre Dame's seventh goal of the game when he lofted a Stoichkov-esque direct kick over a wall of Valparaiso de­fenders. 
The Irish finished the game 
see SOCCER I page 16 
his play in the midfield. Notre Dame captured their first Big East win Sunday with their 3-0 victory over the Orangemen. 

Irish survive first big test 
Monica Gerardo (above) scores the winning 
goal in Notre Dame's 1-0 win over No. 10 
Wisconsin. For details, see Tuesday's Observer. 

Football vs. Vanderbilt September 16, 1:30 EST 
Volleyball at Mortar Board Premiere Sept. 15-16 West Lafayette, Ind. 
-
Men's Soccer at Rutgers Sept. 15/Seton Hall Sept. 17 
• Vm.J..EYSAU. 
Irish take Big Four Championship 
By BETSY BAKER 
Sports Writer 
The ninth-ranked Notre Dame volleyball team improved their record to 5-0 this weekend by winning the Big Four Classic Tournament for the second year in a row. The Irish defeated In­diana, 'Kentucky, and University of Louisville to achieve their eighth consecutive Big Four victory and become the only team to win three overall and back-to-back tournament titles. 
It was a tiring weekend for the Irish as they played fourteen games in twenty-four hours. The Irish defeated Indiana in five games, Kentucky in four games and Louisville in five games presenting more of a challenge than the Irish had anticipated. 
"I don't think anyone caught us off guard this weekend," Irish head coach Debbie Brown said. "But we definitely played more games than we anticipated." 
"We dictated how the matches went and when the other team was playing well, we helped them by making errors," Brown said. 
The Irish defeated Indiana Friday night 15-9, 15-6, 9-15, 12-15, and 15-13. The Hoosiers sur­prised the Irish by matching their kill count. Jaime Lee, who was named tournament MVP, led the Irish against the Hoosiers with 23 kills and 3 
Women's Soccer Notre Dame Invitational Sept. 15-17 
Cross Country at Ohio State September 15 
SMC Sports Volleyball vs. Heidelberg, Sept. 12, 7 p.m. Soccer vs. Anderson, Sept. 13 

service aces. 
Lee, a sophomore outside hitter, recently made the transition to the outside position after playing middle blocker last year due to the abundance of talent outside for the Irish. Playing outside is actually a return for Lee who has played most of her career in that position. Her return has defi­nitely paid off for the Irish as she achieved three 20-kill performances for the Irish this weekend. 
"Playing middle blocker last year helped Jaime, but outside hitter is her natural position," Brown said of Lee's team-leading performance this weekend. 
"She has already and will continue to make an impact for our team." 
Lee enjoys playing outside hitter and hopes that she can continue to contribute to the team's stellar performance. 
"I can play both positions physically, but I am more into playing outside hitter mentally," Lee said. 
"It is also more fun." 
In addition to readjusting to a different posi­tion, Lee and the rest of the Irish team has been called upon to step up and take over a leadership role which became vacant this year with the graduation of All-American Chisty Peters and the 
see IRISH I page 15 
• 
Lawrence Phillips arrested for assault see page 14 

• 
Sampras defeats Agassi see page 17 

• 
Raiders beat Redskins see page 18 





