
1 • I 1 I I I 1 I I I I I I I • I of I; • I o If I I 1 

Tuesday, December 5, 1995 • Vol. XXVII No. 67 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Ad Hoc Committee reports on progress 
Group attempts to meet needs of gays and lesbians 
By DAVE TYLER 
News Editor 
The University of Notre Dame took another step in its months long process of trying to decide the question of how to better meet the needs of its gay and lesbian students Monday. 
The Ad Hoc Committee on Gay and Lesbian Students Needs made public its interim report to Vice-President for Studnnt Affairs Patricia O'Hara in a full page ad in The Ob­st~rver. 
"We wanted people to have sonw insight into what we've betm doing this semester," said Committee Chairperson Ann Firth, who also serves as O'llara's assistant. 
Tlw document, authored by Firth and submitted to O'Hara on l>nc. 1, outlines the experi­ences and impressions the group formed and had since is­suing a preliminary report May 
I. 
"The committee has chosen to spend this semester listen­ing, and we will spend the early part of next semester formulating and discussing our final recommendations," Firth wrote. 
The group held six meetings this fall, and four were devoted to listening to the concerns of gay and lesbian students, for the purpose of hearing numer­ous voices from within the Notre Dame community. 
Firth noted that these meet­ings provided probing insights into the lives of gays and les­bians at Notre Dame, finding that there often existed a "real terror" in their lives. 
"Some students reported feel­ing such a sense of isolation that they contemplated sui­cide," the report reads. 
The committee also heard testimony about how gays and lesbians attempt to balance their sexuality and their faith. (Gays and lesbians) want the University to provide the re­sources they need integrate their sexuality and their faith lives. 
The committee report also noted gay and lesbian student concerns about "how very dif­ficult !.t is to be gay at Notre Dame. 
"These students have often had to look to each other for support and assistance, feeling that their needs are largely ig­nored by the University," Firth 
see GLND/SMC I page 4 

Light up the night 
Glowing brightly atop Grace Hall, the number one proudly reveals that the Notre Dame women's soccer team is the best in the nation. 


Women's Resource Center responds to sexist e-mail 
By MEGAN McGRATH reasons as "Of course, if she Notes scandal at Notre Dame. and Pat Sicher, four male "We are most concerned with News Writer can't speak. she can't say no" In that incident, the Hall Notes Cornell students. As a group the blatant endorsement of and "If it hurts, I don't wanna of a male dorm defined a representing women's concerns rape and violence against 
The Notre Damn Women's hear it." woman as "a useless piece of on a college campus, we find women," Trahan said. Hesource Center is sponsoring a Women's Resource President flesh surrounding the vagina," (the list), strongly offensive." "All too often, offenses like pPtition addressed to adminis­Erin Trahan said, "As a student among other descriptions. The petition includes exam­this are overlooked, even by the trators at Cornell University to organization that promotes "We felt the Cornell list was ples of the most disturbing people they target," Trahan rnspond to an e-mail chain let­gender equity, we feel it is our similar to the 'humor' at­"reasons," including: went on to say. ter circulated by four Cornell responsibility to report the tempted in the Hall Notes last "If she can't speak, she can't "We want to give students the studtmts. event to Notre Dame students year," Trahan said. "Both are cry rape." opportunity to voice their opin­
Thn list, entitled "Top 75 and respond to such hateful, deplorable." "If she's in the kitchen like ion." Heasons Why Women (bitches) violent acts." The WRC petition reads: "On she should be, no one can hear The petition will be available Shouldn't !lave Freedom of WHC officer Christy Kenny behalf of the Notre Dame stu­her anyway." for signatures today in the Spnnch" has been cireulated to received the list just before dent body, we, the Women's "If my dick's in her mouth, North and South Dining Halls. several nwmbers of the Notre Thanksgiving break and Resource Center, are writing she can't talk anyway." Students can also sign the peti­l>anw and Saint Mary's commu­brought it to the Center. For this letter to protest the content The petition goes on to rec­tion in the Women's Hesource nity via e-mail. Trahan and the other WRC of the enclosed e-mail letter ommend "severe disciplinary Center. 
Tlw list is of a strongly misog­members, the list drew com­authored by Evan Camps, Brian actions be taken" against the The Center's hours are from ynist nature, containing such parisons to last year's Hall Waldman, Rikus Linschoten students. 3-9 p.m . 
lfiWI!Illlllllla • ilfri!!t!llillllllt iiii!Uill!Uill 




Getting the stress out 
Two Fisher Hall residents make the most of their free time playing racquetball at the Rock. 
• CAMPUS liFE COUNCil 



Co-ed dorm debate continues 
By AMY SCHMIDT 
Assistant News Editor 
The Campus Life Council is currently working on a resolu­tion requesting dialogue on the hotly debated issue of co-resi­dentiality that will be submitted to the Student Affairs Commit­tee of the Board of Trustees in the spring of 1996. 
However, the CLC has not, as of yet, chosen a vehicle for rep­resentation to the Board. The draft of the preliminary resolu­tion included a clause that "urges Patricia O'Hara, the vice president of Student Affairs, to present the option for co-resi­dentiality for upperclassmen in one or more of the new facili­ties to the Student Affairs Committee of the Board of Trustees at their next meeting for consideration as an item of action." 
Because parliamentary pro­cedures regarding CLC matters and the Board of Trustees have not been fully investigated, the Board is postponing a decision on both the content of and the vehicle for the final resolution on co-residentiality until next semester. 
At the meeting yesterday, some members of the CLC sug­gested that Jonathan Patrick, student body president, serving as the voice of both the student body and the CLC, present the resolution to the Board of Trustees. 
The CLC also suggested the possibility of having a few members of the Council accom­pany Patrick in his presentation of the resolution. 
In other CLC news, the sub­committee for advising systems at Notre Dame has been re­searching the effectiveness of departmental advisors in the Colleges of Architecture, Engi­neering, Business, Arts and Letters, and Science. 
Discussion on the effective­ness of advising will continue next semester, with the possi­ble planning of a professional, campus-wide or college-wide advising system. 


------~--------~ I I I I I o I • iII o I • I I It If I 1 I I I 1 I, 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, December 5, 1995 
• INsmE CoLUMN 
Fighting the 
seasonal 

sorrows 


beginning. We see the sun less and less every day, or so it seems. Rain, wind, and snow are attacking us harder and harder, and we are piling on more and more warm clothes to combat 
these elements. We Margee Husemann have the sniffies, a Associate Viewpoint cough, and a fever. We Editor have less and less -------­money as we spend more and more in the season of giving. We have less and less free time as final rush up on us like rabid wolves. However, all of this calamitous uproar cli­maxes now so that we can relax for Christmas. While we wait for the red and the green, we have to deal with the blues, so here is my suggestion: Return to your child­hood. 
When we were kids, we didn't care much about work. Our lives were full of all the good things in life. Stress was really just what we saw tiring our parents, what was making our older siblings even more abusive, and what made the rift between Mork and Mindy all the more hilarious. 
I say that we should all reject stress. Return to childhood. I don't mean that we should all suck on our thumbs, crawl into our closets and rock in the fetal position (although that may seem appropriate every now and then). Take less dramatic steps. Here are three of my suggestions. Keep them in mind this next week and a half. 
1. 
Take advantage of study days to sleep. When we were youths, we went to bed by eight and got up at nine the next morning. In addition to this gross amount of sleep, we also got to take at least one nap during the day. While we really don't need that much sleep now, naps are a true necessity. Not all of the sleep can be considered complete down time; simply putting a book under your pillow qualifies that brief nap as study time. 

2. 
Cartoons. Cartoons. Cartoons. Nothing reminds me more of my carefree days than sitting in front of a television watching brightly colored animals cavort across the screen. "She-Ra", "Th undercats", "Voltron", and "The Smurfs" have gone the way of the Cartoon Express on USA, but "Tiny Toons", "The Tick", and "Animaniacs" all offer new mind-numbing plots that are destined to leave you drooling almost as much as writing your Blake essay. 

3. 
Tuck your teddy bear or favorite blanket in your backpack with your books, hike over to the library, and find a cozy spot to cuddle up with your favorite Dr. Seuss story. Perhaps you like "The Lorax" or maybe "Cat in the Hat". Perhaps you like Horton, the wockets, the Grinch, and all that. Perhaps none are that funny; no real interest to you. Perhaps you need to learn more, need to hear it from a Who. If you understand what I say and you know what 1 mean, then I'll see you tomorrow at PS three-five-thirteen. 


My point is this: Slow down and allow some time to get in touch with your outer child. For half an hour, listen to Alvin the Chipmunk or Big Bird instead of Eddie Vedder or David Gilmour, read Grimm or Silverstein instead of Shakespeare or Yeats, skip or roller blade instead of jogging or lift­ing weights. Embrace a little bit of time the way you did when you were little; it will make the week that little bit easier. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TOIJAY'S STAFF  
News  Accent  
Gwendolyn Norgle Deborah Schultz Sports Megan McGrath Graphics Tom Roland  Ashleigh Thompson Production Tara Grieshop Jackie Moser Lab Tech Michael Hungeling  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

• Wmu.o AT AGtMH.!E 

Jet crashes in swamp, 72 passengers reported killed 
DOUALA, Cameroon included at least two of the five crew 
A jet overshot a runway at members -a co-pilot and flight atten­
Cameroon's largest city and crashed dant. 
into a swamp, killing 72 of the 78 peo­Most of those aboard were believed 
ple aboai_"d, officials said Monday. to be Cameroonians, said an official of 
The Cameroon Airlines Boeing 737 state-owned Cameroon Airlines. The 
was making a second try at landing flight came from the neighboring coun­
Sunday night when it went down about try of Benin. 
2 1/2 miles past the airport at Douala, a Military helicopters and navy boats 
port city of about 900,000 on the searched the estuaries of the Wouri 
Atlantic coast about 175 miles west of River for survivors, bodies and clues to 
the capital, Yaounde. the cause of the accident, but the thick 
A survivor told private radio station foliage hampered the hunt. 
Africa Number 1 that sparks started The reason for the first aborted land­
shooting out of the right engine as the ing was not known. 
jet was about to land. It was the first deadly accident 
The pilot tried to abort the landing involving one of the state-owned air­
but hit some trees and plunged into the line's jets in more than a decade. In 
water, said the survivor, who was not 1984, 24 people aboard died when a 
identified. jet caught fire as it prepared to take ofT 
The pilot was pulled from the wreck­from Douala. 
age alive, but died later. Survivors 
Dread disease is nearly eradicated Gunman claims woman gave him AIDS 
WASHINGTON SAN ANTONIO 
A disease caused by contaminated 
A man who claimed a woman had given him AIDS 
drinking water has been virtually burst into her home with a pistol and shot five people, 
wiped out after crippling millions over killing two, before shooting himself to death, police said. 
the centuries in Africa and South Asia, Ulysses Miller, 22, was found in the front yard of the 
a State Department gathering was told house, dead of a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the 
Monday. Former President Jimmy head, police said. He had been at the home earlier 
Carter joined officials from several Sunday looking for the 24-year-old woman he said infect­
international assistance groups to pro­ed him, said police Sgt. Ray Torres. The intended victim 
claim 97 percent eradication of Guinea had recently moved out of the house but at least nine rel­
worm disease in 16 African countries as well as India, atives, including four children, were home Sunday 
Pakistan and Yemen. "It's one of the historic achieve­evening eating and watching television when Miller 
ments in the field of human health," Carter said. The dis­entered the house through the garage and fatally shot 
ease occurs when people drink water with microscopic Henry Crawford, police said. As Miller moved through 
Guinea worm larvae that migrate through the body. A the one-story house, unloading 10 shots from a .25-cal­
year later, mature worms up to three feet long emerge iber pistol. family members scrambled to escape, police 
through painful blisters, sometimes causing permanent said. None of the children was injured. "He reloaded 
scarring and crippling similar to polio. The disease has several times," neighbor John Barney said in Monday's 
been controlled through a chemical that purifies editions of the San Antonio Express-News. "He first went 
contaminated water. Alternatively, the larvae can be in and started firing, then came outside and reloaded. 
screened out through the use of a filter cloth. The Carter Then he went inside, fired again." By Monday afternoon 
Center in Atlanta, which the former president heads, it had not been determined whether Miller was infected 
took an inventory and discovered 3.5 million cases in with the AIDS virus. Tests were to be done in an autopsy. 
1986. Carter told the gathering Monday there are now Police refused to identify the intended victim or comment 
fewer than 100,000 cases. on her alleged relationship with the gunman. 
Still a danger, rapist is set free Student tries to hijack school bus 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. GREENVILLE, S.C. 
The Pillowcase Rapist linked to 200 sex crimes in A 13-year-old boy was arrested Monday after he 
Southern California in the 1970s is still considered dan­boarded a school bus with a semiautomatic pistol and or­
gerous, but prison officials have run out of legal reasons dered the driver to go to Georgia. Bus driver Gloria 
to hold him. Reginald Muldrew, who earned his nick­Stamey told the boy she didn't have enough gas for the 
name because he put pillowcases over his victims' heads trip and talked him out of the hijacking attempt. Ms. 
to conceal his identity, was to be released from custody Stamey then drove to the police department. The North­
Monday. Prison officials refused to say when and where west Middle School student, whose name was not re­
he would be freed. Muldrew. 47, has completed his leased because of his age, was arrested. The boy board­
prison term and two six-month extensions for psychiatric ed the bus in the morning carrying a violin case contain­
evaluations, said Department of Correctio·ns spokes­ing his father's .40-caliber semiautomatic pistol and 60 
woman Christine May. "He suffers from a mental disor­rounds of ammunition, school officials said. When the 
der which makes him a danger to others and for which boy showed the gun to other students on board, a student 
treatment is not available outside prison," May said. alerted Ms. Stamey. The boy then told Ms. Stamey he 
"But he has served his maximum time in prison. He wanted her to drive to Georgia, said Skip Fredrickson, 
remained in prison for his entire parole period. Today he transportation director for the Greenville School District. 
must be released." She said he was secretly transferred The boy never threatened anyone with the gun. but he 
over the weekend from the prison at Vacaville to another did show the weapon to the driver, school officials said. 
prison from which he was to be released. Authorities No one was hurt in the incident. "I told him I would get 
have said only that he must be released 35 miles from him some help and that everything would be all right," 
any victim's home, and within California, but can move Ms. Stamey said. "I told him that I loved him and God 
freely. Muldrew was linked to as many as 200 sex loved him," she said. The student will be suspended and 
crimes in the Los Angeles area from 1976 through 1978, recommended for expulsion for the rest of the school 
sometimes several in one night. year, district spokeswoman Susan Stewart said. 


-----------·--~~  ---~-~--­ ----~­ 1  Ill  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I' I  I  I  I  I  o I  I  
•,  o I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  
Tuesday, December 5, 1995  The Observer • NEWS  page 3  



University to increase funds for scholarship aid 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame will increase expendable funds for student scholarship aid by $5 million over the next four academic years, according to Father E. William Beauchamp, executive vice president of the University. 
A projected 425 undergradu­ate students will be recipients of the new scholarship money over the four-year period. Scholarship awards will be made to first-year students in eaeh of the four entering class­es beginning in the fall of 1996. 

In accordance with each University policy, awards will be based on students' academic and personal qualities as well as demonstrated financial need. The awards will carry over from year to year with adjust­ments for increased University costs and any changes in stu­dents' need. 
"All too often, students whose first choice is Notre Dame and whom we would like to have on campus are going elsewhere because they've been offered better financial aid packages," Beauchamp said. 
"This new infusion of funds is 
Air Force ROTC plans award ceremony 
Special to The Observer 
A ehange of command cere­mony will highlight the bian­nual Notre Dame Air Force HOTC Award Ceremony Wednesday, December 6 at 
4:30 p.m. in 102 DeBartolo llall. Cadet Katherine Free­burg, a senior finance major from Barrington, Ill. will as­sume command of the Cadet Corps for the Spring Semester from the Fall Semester, Cadet Bridget McNamara. In her new role as Wing Commander, Freeburg will be responsible for the planning and execution of all Corps activities. 

In addition to the change of command, the ceremony will also recognize 40 Air Force cadets for outstanding perfor­mance during the Fall Semester. The public is wel­come to attend. 
Please recycle The Observer 

an investment in the future of the University~to help us bring to Notre Dame the students who will help fashion our future." 
The sources of the $5 million in new expendable money will include proceeds from bowl ap­pearances by the football team, revenues from the University's television contract with NBC and income from its product li­censing program. These same sources already have generated more than $30 million in in­creased financial aid endow­m~nt in the past three years alone . 

Under the new plan, $5 mil­lion that would have gone into financial aid endowment in­stead would be made immedi­ately available for scholarship awards. 
"Our commitment to endow­ment as the soundest, surest source of financial aid for the long term is undiminished, and that will continue to be our pri­mary find-raising goal," Beauchamp said. "In the mean­time, however, the officers of the University feel that an immediate infusion of funds will give new impetus to our efforts-and will help bring to Notre Dame outstanding stu­dents who otherwise would be lost to us." 
Beauchamp pointed out that generating .$5 million in addi­tional income from financial aid endowment would require an immediate increase in en­dowment of approximately $100 million. 
Increasing financial aid has been Notre Dame's foremost fund-raising priority for more than a decade, and concerted efforts since 1990 have dou­bled the amount of scholarship aid now available to under­graduate students. 
• RESIDENCE HAll ASSOGIAT!IlN 

RHA election fills executive seats 
By HEATHER CROSS 
News Writer 
As the dust settled from the recent resignation of the for­mer Residence Hall Association executive board, last night's election filled their empty seats with four enthusiastic women. 
Sarah Sullivan and four other Board of Governance members ran the election, in which each hall had four votes: two from the executive board and two from representatives. Annun­ciata Hall, however, was only allowed one representative vote due to its small number of resi­dents. 
All of the candidates were given time to speak on why they wished to be elected. Nikki Milos, who ran for the po­sitions of President and Vice President, stressed the impor­tance of "continuing to show this school that we have a strong leadership ability within this organization." 
The former RHA executive board, with the exception of former Secretary Laura Richter, was in attendance. They resigned from their posi­


ntroversy urrounds 

'Mf'ir!ic 

election 

''By HEATHER CROSS 
'News Writer 
Although new RHA board 

members were elected at last 
night's meeting, controversy 
surrounds how they were 
elected. 
According to former RHA ViCe President Barbara Van­dersarl, two votes which should have been cast were not. due to "lack of understanding and aware· ,ness .of the RHA voting mem· 
·,.n,:,,,,.. · see RHAI page 4 
tions three weeks ago. 
Director of Residence Life and Housing Suzie Orr also attended the election. 
The new Saint Mary's RHA executive board includes Presi­dent Paulette Raczkowski, Vice President Nikki Milos, Trea­
•CoRRECTION 

The Observer would like to make the following corrections: 
An article in last Wednesday's edition incor­rectly identified the group Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination {CARE). 
Last Friday's article on com· pensation for university presi­depts incorrectly designated ih~ tion of Father Mal· surer Patti Corbitt, and Secre­tary Christine Riesenberger 
Former RHA President Tara Hooper stated that she is "ex­tremely thrilled with the results of the election as the former executive board has had a won­derful working relationship with these members which can only lead to further pioneered change." 
"We have only best wishes (for the new board members) and we are willing to help them in any way, with any problems, at any time," added former RHA Treasurer Cynthia Ex­conde. 
"I look forward to working with HilA," said newly-elected President Paulette Raczkowski. "We have a strong power on this campus, and I'm happy to be able to work with this orga­nization." 
Raczkowski has set unity within student government as a goal for RHA. 
"I look forward to working with the BOG, SAB (Student Activities Board), and SAC (Student Academic Council) on campus-wide activities and events." 
loy's University income. It should have read the Congregation of the Holy Cross, not Holy Cross Associates. 
Yesterday's article on the Saint Mary's College Student Academic Council misstated the date of the Keynote Speaker's address. The date is Tuesday, February 6. 
The Observer regrets the er­rors. 


LoVE LIGHTS A TREE 
Support the American Cancer Society today and tomorrow by buying aChristmas Ornament 
in the name of someone with cancer or in memory of acancer patient. Ornaments will be hung on atree in LaFortune during finals week. 
Questions, please call: Nicole at 634-1318 

-----­ 
1  1  1  I  1  ~  I  I  f  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  
page 4  The Observer • NEWS  Tuesday, December 5, 1995  

GM President to seize Heat rises in French rail strike 
By EDUARDO CUE curity system and slash the $64 off the job. The strike has shut 
Associated Press billion deficit. down 57 of France's 137 post



control for chairman 
By MIKE McKESSON 
Associated Press 
DETROIT 
Three years after a board­room coup gave leadership of General Motors Corp. to an out­sider. the chairman said Mon­day that the recovery is well on its way and it's time to return the top job to a GM executive. 
Chairman John Smale, who led the board in the 1992 re­volt, will move aside Jan. 1 to head a newly formed executive committee of the GM board. He will be replaced by GM Presi­dent Jack Smith, who has been chief executive of the world's largest automaker since 1992. 
"Now, some three years later, it's clear that GM's man­agement team under Jack Smith's leadership has turned GM around," Smale. a former chairman of Procter & Gamble 
RHA 
continued from page 3 
hers and those running the election." 
The two votes in question are those of Angie Kaufman and Jody Jennings. Kaufman is the new All-School Dance Chair­woman, a position formerly held by VanDersarl. Jennings is a Resident Advisor (RA) from McCandless Hall. 
VanDersarl claims that these two members were eligible to vote according to changes made to the RHA constitution at the Sept. 18 meeting. Article four, section one, enti­tled "Voting Members" includes a clause that states that all committee chairwomen are allowed a vote. Under this rule, Kaufman would have been required to vote. Sarah Sullivan. however. claimed that Kaufman was not to vote because she was newly appointed to her position. 
The other vote in question is that of RA Jody Jennings. Un­der the September revisions from the same section, each hall is allowed, if they so choose, to appoint two RAs to the RHA, and these members are entitled to a vote. 
Sullivan claims that she was not given these revisions. "When the RHA board re­signed, they were asked to sub-Co., said in the news release announcing the changes. 

The 1992 rebellion was trig­gered by billions of dollars in losses from GM's North Ameri­can operations. Chairman and chief executive Robert Stempel was forced out, Smale became the first GM chairman since the 1950s who was not a GM ex­ecutive, and Smith was charged with turning the company around. 
The company earned record profits of $4.9 billion last year, including $690 million from North American automotive op­erations. 
Smith will continue as presi­dent and chief executive. The company also said Harry Pearce, a GM executive vice president, will become vice chairman and join Smith as the second company executive on the 13-member board. 
mit all important documents, and they did not submit a recent constitution. We worked with the most recent constitution (in running the election)." 
But VanDersarl stated that Sullivan "receives a copy of the minutes at BOG meetings or in her BOG mailbox from the RHA secretary." VanDersarl added that the amendments made to the constitution and the amendment sheet itself were included in an attachment to those minutes. 
"They had the updated min­utes," said VanDersarl. "What they did with them, I don't know. This just shows a lack of responsibility and account­ability on their part, not ours (as the former executive board)." 
Sullivan maintains that she did not receive a complete con­stitution from the former exec­utive board, and should not be made accountable for not re­ferring to those sheets. 
She stated that "student government laws are more substantial than just 'amend­ments to minutes'." and that she should have been present­ed with a complete, revised constitution by the former board. 
An exact vote count was not available to see if the votes of the two members in question could have possibly changed the results of the election. 
Spring '96 Medical School Tours University of Michigan: 
Saturday, Jan. 20, 1996-$15 
Northwestern University: 
Friday, Feb. 9, 1996-$10 
Sign-up and pre-pay in 101 O'Shaughnessy by Friday, Dec. 15, 1995 -f!~e't: 
PARIS 
A strike by public workers intensified today with major unions urging the private sector to join the walkout and Prime Minister Alain Juppe calling an emergency meeting of his gov­ernment. 
The 11-day strike has idled French trains, buses and sub­ways. unnerved millions of commuters and hobbled an al­ready weak economy. 
There was no immediate in­dication of what would be dis­cussed at the Cabinet meeting tonight. Until now, the gov­ernment has held firm to its plan to overhaul the social se­
GLND/SMC 
continued from page 1 

wrote. "GLND/SMC (Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College) has been the primary source of support for most of the students to whom we have listened." 
GLND/SMC is the unofficial student group whose exclusion from meeting in the University Counseling Center precipitated months of on-campus protest and focused national media at­tention on the school's policy. 
Firth's report indicated that the meetings had a profound effect on all members of the committee. "Each of us has been deeply moved by what we have heard over these past months," she wrote. 
"We have been inspired by the ways in which gay and les­bian students have assisted each other, and we have been impressed by the earnestness and faithfulness with which many seek to live out their lives as Christians," Firth com­mented. 
The report came to a close by offering a glimpse of the future. 
"It is our hope that the rec­ommendations of this commit­tee will help make Notre Dame the kind of safe and inclusive environment it should be and enhance the University's efforts to meet the needs of its gay and lesbian students," Firth wrote. 
John Blandford. co-chair of GLND/SMC, said he was both discouraged and encouraged by the report of the committee. 
''I'm a little disappointed that the committee is not moving a little more quickly," he said. The committee will have spent over one year completing its work. 
But Blandford found what he called "positive language" in the committee's publication. 
"I think the report suggests what we've been saying all along...that GLND/SMC is the prime means of support for gays and lesbians on this cam­pus, and that the Office of Stu­dent Affairs did the campus a disservice by trying to ban GLND/SMC from the commu­nity," Blandford said. 
Blandford said he feels that if the committee is honest and answers its mandate, a recog­offices. 
Financial markets today re­flected concern that the strike could spread to the private sec­tor. By late afternoon. the CAC 40 Index of most actively traded stocks was down 2.5 percent. 
Chirac, speaking Sunday night in Benin at a summit of French­speaking nations, reiterated that he would not back down. 
"France is at a crossroads," Chirac said .. "This is the path, the path of reforms that have been put off for far too long." 
Union leaders also talked tough, demanding that the gov­ernment's plan be withdrawn as a condition to opening nego­tiations. 
However, some in the gov­ernment have suggested Presi­dent Jacques Chirac might dis­solve the National Assembly and call early legislative elec­tions to break the impasse. 
Unions scheduled demon­strations in Paris on Tuesday to maintain pressure on the gov­ernment in the most serious la­bor turbulence in nearly a decade. Two unions flatly reject wage freezes for all 5 million public employees and cuts in their benefits. A third major union has accepted some of the proposed revisions in health and retirement benefits. 
Transport, utility, postal and other public workers remained nized, independent gay and les­bian student group will be among the panel's recommen­
. dations. 

"In our interviews with the committee we sought to remind them that their mandate came first from the community and second from Patty O'Hara. The University community de­manded action be taken," he said. 
He went on to say that he was pleased to see a reference to GLND/SMC in the report. "An overwhelming majority of the gay and lesbian students that the committee talked to were GLND/SMC members," Bland­ford said. "It was good to see that noted." At one meeting 32 out of 36 students in atten­dance were members of GLND/SMC, he said. 
Blandford said he still views the committee as a two-edged sword. 
"On the down side, it is a way to try to dissipate energy, the campus outcry was muted a bit by the creation of the commit­tee," he said. "On the up side. the longer this goes on, the more inevitable it is that some­thing will be done." 
'1,()11 'l,I~N lll~ilS()NS '1,() ,J()IN (~())f)IIJNI'I,II~S NJ) 
10. No papers, finals or grades 
9. Free candles 
8. Monk wants you to 
7. Better than an 5YR for making new friends 
6. Chance to talk about Sundais Gospel ahead of time 
5. Discover the challenge of adult Christianity 
4. Easier to get into than an NDE 
3. Co-ed, Co-ed, Co-ed! 
2. Terrific way to learn about your faith 
1. Nobody goes to heaven by themselves 
New Communities begin in January --find out what they're all about NOW! 
Sign-ups and information sheets are avallable at the Library and Badin Hall Campus Ministry offices. Any undergraduate student may sign up before the end of the semester. The initial commitment is for the Rally Day (January 20, 1996) and six meetings throughout the spring semester. 
Questions? Call Darrell Paulsen or Kate Barrett at Campus Ministry: 631-5242 

Tuesday, December 5, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 



First American troops arrive in Bosnia 
ByMARKPORUBCANSKY 
Associated Press 
SAHAJEVO 
Two American sergeants be­came the first U.S. troops in Bosnia today when they arrived to help lay the groundwork for a 60,000-strong NATO mission to enforce the Balkan peace. 
The officers flew into Sarajevo on a camouflaged British C-130 Hercules trans­port plane carrying about two dozen NATO troops, including British, French and Belgians. 
A second plane to Sarajevo brought a seven-member British logistics team, and a third flight earrying troops was expected later today. In Croatia, 56 British communica­tions experts arrived in the port city of Split. 
A third of the NATO force will be Americans -the first U.S. ground troops sent to Bosnia in more than 3 1/2 years of war. 
"We'll be setting up the,head­quarters for the bigger force to cornfl down," said Sgt. Matthew Chipman, of Beardstown, Ill., who arrived today with Sgt. Todd Eichmann, of Kansas City, Mo. 
Chipman said the time frame for the rest of the troops' ar­rival was undetermined. "Everybody is hoping as soon as possible," said Chipman. lie said he and Eichmann left their base in Augsburg, Germany, so quickly he didn't have a chance to say goodbye to his parents. 
A British soldier who flew into Sarajevo as part of the logistics team said that serving with the NATO force would be bPttPr that his previous job as a 
U.N. p!Hteekeeper in Split beeause he is now authorized 
Bosnian 

Serb NATO forces do not expect organized 
Bosnian forces 
Bosnianresistance in Bosnia. But both the Bosnian • government •••Serbs and government maintain armies. 

t Troops 

92,000 100,000 reserves 
Tanks and armor e, Armored vehicles 
....,. Tanks ..·..····~370 
111131 

._, Multibarrel rocket launchers '12 . 76 
Artillery ~ Fieldguns 
730 -100 
.,4 Mortars 

Air power 
+ Aircraft ~· Helicopters ~ Anti-aircraft guns 
20 24 
Number unknown
3 I s 

111111111100 Bosnian government has an unknown number of surface-to-air missiles. 
Bosnian Serbs have an unknown number of FROG-7 surface-to-surface missiles and surface-to-air missiles. 
Source: The Military Balance 1995·96 
to use force. 
"It's the same job," Sgt. Eric Johnson said. "But it's easier. this way." 
The soldiers who arrived to­day are the first of 2,600 as­signed to lay the groundwork for whole force. In all, some 60,000 NATO troops-a third from the United States -will take part in the mission. 
President Clinton gave the of­ficial go-ahead Sunday for the first small groups of U.S. sol­diers to leave, but their travel plans were not clear. Some Americans were expected to arrive early this week in Ka­posvar, Hungary, to set up a transit point. 
The 56 soldiers who came to Croatia today as part of Britain's 7th Signal Regiment will start dealing with communications, logistics and supplies. Some will head for Sarajevo and Tuzla, 
1 
I 
and others will stay at Split, a key transit point for Bosnia. 
A convoy of 15 to 20 trucks was set to leave a NATO base in Naples, Italy, on Tuesday for Zagreb, Croatia, carrying equipment for the operation's headquarters, said NATO spokesman Franco Veltri. 
Clinton, speaking Sunday in Madrid at the end of a five-day European trip, brushed aside a defiant statement by the Bosnian Serb military leader, Gen. Ratko Mladic . 
On Saturday, Mladic de­manded a reconsideration of the peace accord's transfer of control over Serb areas around Sarajevo to a new Muslim-Croat federation. 
Speaking to his troops, Mladic said Serbs will never permit themselves to be ruled by "butchers" -his description of the Muslims and Croats they have fought for more than 3 1/2 years. 
Clinton was unyielding. "No, I don't think the treaty is in trou­ble, and no, I don't think the treaty has to be renegotiated," he said. 
Secretary of State Warren Christopher, speaking on ABC­TV's "This Week With David Brinkley," also emphasized that the accord brokered in Dayton, Ohio, "will not be changed, it will not be modified" to meet Bosnian Serb objections about the future of Sarajevo. 
He said NATO forces do not expect organized resistance from the Serbs. 
President Slobodan Milosevic of Serbia "understands he has a responsibility to get them un­der control and we expect him to carry out that responsibili­ty," Christopher said. 
• SECURITY BEAT MON., NOV. 27 
6:30 a.m. A South Bend resident was cited for speeding on Ivy Rd. 
4:52 p.m. A University employee was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of an Illness. 
9:07 p.m. A Walsh Hall resident was transported to Memorial Hospital tor treatment of a sports Injury. 
TUES._ NOV. 28 
11 :46 a.m. A University employee was transported by Security to the Student Health Center for treatment of a bum . 
6:09 p.m. A University employee was transported by Security to Memorial Hospital for treatment of an illness. 
11:30 p.m.. An off·campua student reported the theft of hie wallet from an unlocked locker In the Rockne Memorial Building. 
WED., NOV. 29 
1:55 a.m. An off-campus student was cited tor disregarding a r;top sign on Bulla Rd• 
4:06 p.m. A Pasquerllls East resl· dent was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of an Ill· ness. 
9:07 p.m. A St. Edward's Hall res· ident was transported by Security to the Student Health Center for treatment of a sports Injury. 
9:39 p.m. A visitor was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center for treat­ment of injuries sustained during a fall. 
Jf yo!A see V\eWS 
happeV\iV\g1 call The Obse~ve~ at 1-4543 





Retail 
We will pay up to 50% of the book price providing the textbook: 
1-Is being used on this campus. 
2-Is needed to fill the bookstore's quota. 
3-Is In resalable condition. 
Example: 
You paid $46.00 for a textbook... We will pay $23.00 or 50%. 


Wholesale 
For books not needed on this campus but having national demand, up to 35% of the new price may be paid. 
These books are shipped to other colleges and universities where they are needed. 
Old editions have no national value. 
The Harn111es Notre Dame Bookstore Monday -Friday, December 11-15 
9:00 am -5:00 pm 
Don•t wait til Spring. Bookstore paying 1/2 price now! 
BOOKS ARE MONEY -GUARD AGAINST THEFT 
-~ -,-·----~-------------------------­
page6 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, December 5, 1995 
U.S. marine testifies in rape trial 
Serviceman claims forced confession 
By PETER lANDERS 
Associated Press 
NAHA, Japan 
An American serviceman ac­cused of raping a 12-year-old girl testified Monday that U.S. investigators dragged him out of bed before dawn and forced him to confess. 
The testimony in a Japanese court by Marine Pfc. Rodrico Harp, 21, followed charges by family members that the three servicemen accused of raping the Japanese girl were treated unfairly by the U.S. military, possibly because they are black. 
The crime has galvanized lo­cal opposition to U.S. bases in Japan. American officials call them crucial to security in Asia. But on Okinawa, the southern Japanese island where 27,000 
U.S. troops are stationed, resi­dents want the bases closed, saying they cause too much crime and nuisance. 
Outside Okinawa's Naha Dis­trict Court, where the three ser­vicemen are on trial, someone posted a note to the Americans: "If you have a piece of pride, get out." 
Inside, Harp, wearing a lum­berjack shirt and slippers, ad­mitted he helped plot the Sept. 4 abduction and rape of the schoolgirl in a rented car. But he said investigators from the 
U.S. Navy wouldn't listen to his full story. 

"When I told them that I did get into the back seat with the little girl but did not rape her, they were forcing me to say that I did rape her," Harp, of Griffin, Ga., told the court in a clear voice. 
Harp also said the U.S. inves­tigators rousted him from bed between 4 and 5 a.m. on Sept. 6, just a few hours after his ar­rest, to answer questions. 
Harp's lawyer, Mitsunobu Matsunaga, said the testimony was critical to convincing the three-judge panel deciding the case that Harp's "confession" shouldn't be trusted. 
The other two defendants ­Navy Seaman Marcus Gill, 22, of Woodville, Texas, and Marine Pfc. Kendrick Ledet, 20, of Waycross, Ga. -are to testi­fy at hearings later this month. 

Gill has admitted to the most serious charge, rape causing injury, which carries a maxi­mum sentence of life in prison. Ledet, like Harp, admits involvement but denies the rape. 
Lawyer Matsunaga also sought to lessen Harp's sen­tence by calling his wife as a witness. Demitrease Harp de­scribed her husband as a gen­tle, churchgoing man who was good with children. 
When she said she still loved him, the defendant put his head down and appeared to be cry­ing. 
Mrs. Harp also apologized to the victim and her parents. 

Some employers promise you theworld. We offeryou achance to maketheworldbetter. 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 631-6385 
According to the charges, the three forced the girl into a rent­ed car after she stepped out of a stationery store where she had bought a school notebook, drove her to a remote sugar­cane field, raped her and dumped her from the car. 
Okinawans have seized on the case as an example of their suf­fering from the heavy U.S. mili­tary presence. Their protests have shaken the U.S.-Japan military alliance at a time when it is already under review because of the end of the Cold War. 

The families of the three de­fendants, who accused the U.S. military of failing to inform them about developments in the case, have hired a lawyer, Eric Ross, to observe the trial. Several American civil rights activists were present Monday as well. 
Ross said the families are try­ing to raise $5,000 each to compensate the victim-a vol­untary step that often results in a lighter sentence in Japan ­but denied this meant they be­lieved the men are guilty. 
Because Japanese courts con­vict defendants more than 99 percent of the time, Ross said, "you have to consider the odds." 
The trial is to resume Dec. 11, but a verdict, originally ex­pected this month, is now likely to come in January. 
The trial has moved slowly because questions to the wit­nesses and their answers to the court must be translated in English and Japanese. 
Wav\ted: Repo..-tel"s1 editoi"S C\V\d Photog..-aphe..-s. 3oiV\ The Obse..-vel" 
Staff! 

Labs plea no contest to hoDlicide charges 
ByJAMES CARLSON 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE 
A medical laboratory that misread Pap smears of two women who later died of cervical cancer pleaded no contest Monday to reckless homicide. 
As part of a plea agreement between Chem-Bio Corp. and prosecutors, Judge David Hansher did not immediately enter a guilty verdict against the company, which will be allowed to appeal parts of the case. 
Terms of the agreement were announced the day the case was set to go to trial. 
Sentencing for Chem-Bio, of suburban Oak Creek, on the two charges was scheduled Feb. 22. 
Chem-Bio faced a possible fine of $20,000 if convicted of homicide by reckless conduct in the death of Dolores Geary and second-degree reckless homicide in the death of Karin Smith. 
The husbands of both vic­

tims were in the courtroom Monday.
"(Karin) would have been disappointed," said Peter Smith. "No one's being held accountable." 
Geary, 40, a mother of three from Oak Creek, died in 1993. Smith, 29, of Nashotah, died March 8. 
District Attorney Michael McCann said the women were victims of indifference and blatant error. 
The two families won settle­ments totaling $10 million after suing Chem-Bio and their health maintenance organization, Family Health Plan. However, Smith asked before she died that prosecu­tors also pursue criminal charges. 
At an inquest earlier this year, experts testified that Pap smears -gynecological tests for cancer -had repeat­edly shown obvious signs of the cancer, which can be treated if caught early. 
In both cases, the cancer tests were read by the same technician at Chem-Bio. 
Saturday, December 9, 1995 LaFortune Ballroom 
8:00PM  A  YEAR WITHOUT A  SANTA  
CLAUS  
9:00PM  FROSTY THE SNOWMAN  
9:30PM  THE GRINCH  WHO  STOLE  
CHRISTMAS  
I O:OOPM  RUDOLPH THE  RED-NOSED  
REINDEER  
I :00PM  A  CHRISTMAS  STORY  


~~;;~~;P~st''''''''
Free Christmas cool<ies, popcorn and soda will be served. 


~!r·;:~6;;;;:i;;ie;;~=~~;i;;:::::··';~ 
MESSIAH 
The University of Notre Dame Chorale & The University of Notre Dame Orchestra 
Thursday, December 7, 8:00p.m. Friday, December 8, 8:00p.m. Washington Hall 
~'l)]X ~ltfl~
$6 General Seating, $3 Students & Seniors~~Jt~ Tickets available at LaFortune Info. Desk and at ef~&~ 
~~...::~~~~.i::~~~.~-~~~~.~~~~:.:~~~~:.~~~~~-~:~~~~-·"·~--~~ 
----------------·­
~~ 
0

• I I I I I j I I I If I' o I' I 0 I I I I I I I I • I I 




VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, December 5, 1995 page 7 


THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME O~FICE: P.O. Box Q, Nom Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
John Lucas Managing Editor Business Manager Eliuheth Regan joseph Riley 
New• Editor ................................ David Tyler Advenising Manager ........................... john Potier Viewpoint Editor .................. Michad O'Hara Ad Design Manager ......................)en Mackowiak Sports Editor ................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor .........................KriMa Nannery Syotems Manager ............................ Scan Galla van Saint Mary' a Editor .................... Patti Carson Observer Marketing Director .......... Pere Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Ohmver is the independent new.•paper published by the students of the University of Notre llJml" du Lac Jnd Saim Mary's Collegr. It Joes not necessarily rdlect the policies of the adminisrra­uon of cit her institution. The news is reponed as accurately otnJ objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­rnri.al~ represent 1hc opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Ediror, News Editor: Virwpumt Editor, Acc~nl F.diror, Photo EJiwr, Sporn EJiwr, and Sain1 Mary's Ediror. Commemarics, lcncrs and Imide Columns prescm 1he views of rhc authors, anJ nor necessarily those nf The llbserv<r. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry ilnd wall rc:Oldcrs. The free cx.pre~~ion of varying opinions rhrough lencr~ is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines EJuor-in-<:hicf 631-4542 Bu~ines~ Office 631-5313 MJnaging Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sporn 631-454.~ Systems/Marketing l)cpt. 631-8839 News/J•horo 6.11-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 6.~1-4540 Fax 631-6927 

• AND IN THIS CORNER ••• 
Throwing down the Gauntlet ofdebate 
I
have never started any of my columns with "Dear tight-ass authoritarian con­servatives." Until now. 
Needlt1ss to say, I am growing a tad lired of bdng addressed by my detrac­tors "you left-leaning liberal pinko com­min," or some such varianl. I have llwrdorn resolved to answer as many qtwslions about myself as possible in this last Column of the semester, with­out resorting to muning names. 
What I could do is sling some more mud, kind of the "light mud with mud" nwthod of dis­
beeause I'm "simply" a writer is not much of an argument. 
A nd if anyone chooses to question my /"'\.slant on American history, please take your head out of your high school tflxtbook first. To consider a small examplfl, the War Between the States was not only not fought to "free the slaves," but in fact Abraham Lincoln had no intention of freeing the slaves when he was elected president. At the time, he didn't believe that it was his right to impose his morals upon a large section 
of the American 
c o u r s e populace. Lincoln Hepublicans like only issued the to use in the Emancipation place of con-Proclamation structivn debatfl. because the North Unfortunately, was losing the war
Matt Apple
as enjoyable as and hoped that this may be, it the freed slaves dons not pro-would join the nwtt~ intellig11nt Union Army. discussion. I As far as my 
T
have honestly tri1HI to he as open as I can personally bear to be, lllllllit with a rew minor slips due to my anxiousness to turn a cute phrase. However, it has not slipped my attention that the more I have insisted that p11ople he open and tolerant. the more I am aecused of being tlw exaet oppositfl (whieh is sonwthing I still ean't quite fig­ure out-is it intolflrant that I objeet to tlw idea of someone ramming their "objectivity" down my throat?) herefore I have the following to ask of anyone who wishes to takfl issue with anything discussed in my columns: by all means, go right ahead and dis­agree with what I say, but if you do, kindly stick to the issues. It is perrectly line to say you have a diffp,rent opinion regarding a philosophieal stance such as, say, moral relativism (morfl on my moralistic views in future eolumns). On tho other hand, claiming that I don't know anything about the real world 
"advantages" as a 
white man are concerned, let me give you a brief family history. My parents were the first ever in the entire history of their families to flVfln go to college, let alone graduate. In flvery single census containing my fami­ly's names, my ancestors' occupations am listed "laborer." The prevailing atti­tude of the WASP hierarchy of the mid­19th century was that Irish Catholic immigrants were "uneducatable," an attitude which this century has been conveniently applied to Blacks, llispanics, or any other minority group which has gradually risen to promi­nence in American society. Throughout my family's history, they were ofrered virtually no opportunities to better themselves up until the era of the Great Society, an era whose dramatic social programs are being systematically dflstroyfld by Newt Gingrich's "Hepublican Hevolution." 
I am trying to dispel the upper-middle class myth that the wealthy are educat­ed and the poor are stupid. Despite the fact that my family has literally no 
A
I
. money, not even enough to go on sum­mer vacations or even buy a car built after 1988, despite the fact that I went to a crappy public high school, despite the fact that I still have no money and am forced to work at a mall and sell well to-do parents presents for their 2.2 children so I can alford to eat on a regu­lar basis, despite the fact that I currently owe a faceless corporation over $20,000 and will most likely be in debt for the rest of my life, I am still here. I am here among the monetarily privileged because of my parents' encouragement, because of my friends' support, and because of my determination. And I am not the only one at Notre Dame who has taken this route. f you want to argue with me, fine. You want to debate moral philosophy or history or current world affairs, fine. But don't try to publicly humiliate me or intimidate me, because, like most child­ish endeavors, it won't work. And don't ever get into a war of words with me using emotionally-loaded phrases, because you will lose. You think you can bandy a few disparaging, insubstantial jibes, or mock an entire degree program and its candidates, or brandish a liber­tarian facade to disguise a snide, intol­erant, unicameral mind, or in general be smug, arrogant, condescending, self­righteous, and vicious and expect to get away with it? Let me make a deal with all the block­heads out there. You refrain from call­ing me an ignorant socialist and pretend to be open-minded, and I'll stop calling you fascist conservatives and pretend I care. If there's anybody hiding in his own little sexist, racist, homophobic, nco-nazi world, it is delinitflly not me. nd before I get accused of being per­petually ironic or sarcastic, let me assure you all that regardless of what you may have been led to believe, every­
one who sends me an intelligent, con­versational e-mail message will receive an intelligent, conversational response. I do not respond to verbal threats, dog­matic garbage, or personal insults. If anything, all you will do is give me an amused chuckle as I click the mouse button on the trash icon. 
O
ne short thought on the American Christmas season: I find it almost embarrassing that Americans have per­fected the ritual of mass mall-shopping (giving credit where it's dufl, this was actually my roommate's eomment, with which I happen to agree). This is some­what of a Catch-22 for me, as my job depends upon successfully pandering to said masses. I do so with the knowledge that my own family cannot afford to shop in the store where I work. and that many of my presents this year, as in previous years, will be clothing donated by loeal area church-goers. I like to think that we don't get caught up in the "money-for-familial-love" trap of mod­ern culture, that we actually celebrate a family holiday by being together under one roof and sharing a holiday meal. It doesn't always work out that way (with little kids, something disruptive happens almost like clockwork), but with fewer material presents eaeh year, it gets clos­er and closer to that ideal. I often won­der if Christmas would truly be a holiday or a winter festival if nobody bought anything for their relatives. 
ne final word of advice to would-beOor have-been abusers of the English Department: it is not wise to piss ofT a large group of writers. Live by the sword, die by the pen. It's your choice. 
Happy Christmas, one and all. 
Matthew Apple is one damn good Creative Writing student of many at Notre Dame. All reasonable discourses accepted li/Jerally at matthew. t. apple. I@. nd. edu. 
• OO:lNlSB!JRY 
llJlun:JWD 50N AI?& ?OURJNG THe P&ARL-OFN&VADA. 
Ol(tlY, NOW, tl57liN-I /A/ANT 
YOU W K&&P 'THE ENGIN& 
IOUNG, OMY? ANO 7HE3 /IJIN{J(}t(/ ROU£[)!XWN. I MIGHTHAV& 70 !<C6AIN 
Aa:E-9.370 7H& V&HI­a/3 IN A HURRY. 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Things cannot always go 
your way. Learn to accept in silence the minor aggravations...so that those about you may not be annoyed with the dust and soot of your complaints." 
-Sir William Osler 

--~--~-----------------------------------------------------------------------, 
1 o • • 1 1 1 1 I I I o 0 o • o ''Ito t. I It I I I I' 


VIEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, December 5, 1995 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
''h·
To THE RIGHT 
Students defend 
Being both Catholic and conservative 
Dear Editor: In response to the letter,  " 'Right Reason' contradicts its  We have grown comfortable with the SEC, the FDA, and lit­erally thousands of consumer protection agencies (and so  writing program I:;;  
own terms", (Nov. 28, D. Macisaac), I submit the following. It is wholly erroneous to state that one cannot be both a faithful Roman Catholic in good standing with the Church, and, at the same time, a modern political and economic conservative (Phrases like the "New Right", Macisaac, are merely liberal lingo for a 9olitical constituency our elite press loathes). To support his contention otherwise, the author gives us a quote made sixty-four years ago by Pope Pius XI denouncing what was then known as "free market" economics (The term "free market economics" has literally  forth) all designed to regulate the workings of the market. Furthermore, Bill Clinton, a bastion of the liberal left (though he masquerades otherwise), has proven to be as much a student of so-called "free-market" economics as his counterparts on the right. NAFTA, continued trade with China, and GATT are all measures which Clinton favored (as Malthus would have as well). What then does the term "free market economics" mean today as it is applied to the so-called "Far Right"? Many Americans feel that the same government, designed to pro­ De;a.r Editor: As graduate Creative Writing students we f~el itn(4cessary to respond to John l)ay~s Nove~ber 28th attack on our pro­gram. While Matthew Apple is a member of the Creative Writing program, the opin· ions expressed in his weekly column are strictly his own. They do not necessarily reflect the sentiments of the rest of the writers.  
adopted a new meaning today versus sixty years ago-a fact that D. Macisaac was assuredly and regrettably unaware oO. Macisaac then takes a great leap in faith-something like that of a Canadian Elk on ice -and applies that quote to today's conservative politicians -evil ideologues whose economic views are decidedly anti-Catholic. What exactly was Pope Pius XI referring to in his encycli­cal condemning so-called "free market economics"? (What exactly is 'free market economics'? The term is attributed to a British economist/philosopher named Malthus. Malthus held that all markets-product, commodity, labor etc.­should be completely self-directing. Accordingly, only when completely unfettered by outside regulations could these 'free' markets best serve society at large. Even though such a policy may bring about serious economic hardship­severe food shortages for half a continent etc.-the market in the end would be self-correcting and result in the high­est utility for society. The Church, rightfully recognizing Malthus's philosophy as one where utility presupposes morality, spoke out against it. In the quote Macisaac grace­fully disembodied, Pope Pius XI merely reiterated the Church's position against any economic system which leads to a rejection of God and morality. (Pope John Paul II, in like fashion, has also written subsequently condemning any economic system-whether it be atheistic Communism or materialistic Capitalism-which threatens to subjugate the spiritual needs of the people. Our author regrettably confuses the term 'free market economics', as it has been used traditionally, with the term as it is used -in only the very loosest of terms -in modern political rhetoric. Not one country in the world today has an economic system that would be described traditionally as "free market." The United States, on the contrary, is one of, if not the predominant, 'socialist' trading countries in the world. Our tariff regulations, and quotas are of the highest-if not the highest of any country spanning the globe. We do not have an economic system which even remotely resembles that Contrary to Macisaac's completely erroneous claim, there political major party today­ tect all citizenry, has itself become somewhat of a nui­sance. A growing number of Americans. today, are feeling a similar sense of alienation. Consequently, the political movement towards a smaller, less encroaching federal gov­ernment is growing. The people who comprise this move­ment are the evil ideologues our author condemns, borrow­· ing an ill-placed quote from Pope Pius XI. Consequently. the student newspaper, "Right Reason" may be both politically conservative and, at the same time, in complete harmony with the teachings of the Catholic Church. Furthermore, not only are there no moral encum­brances associated with being a political and economic conservative, there are a few crucial teachings of the Church which the so-called "New Right" strongly support. This "New Right", for example, believes in the right of a child to have his/her own life. Pope John Paul II has com­mented that without respect for life, justice cannot exist in society. This represents the most paramount of any issue facing our: nation today. The "New Right" is also opposed to anything which threatens the integrity of the nuclear family. This includes opposition to laws legaliz­ing/condoning same-sex relationships, adoptions by homo­sexual couples, pornography and the exploitation/abuse of women and children. (We have been witnessing the effects of a breakdown of the nuclear family for the last thirty years. Suicide, for example, today, is one of America's lead­ing killers of children.) The "New Right" also recognizes a need to return to an education based on values-not cul­tural goobly-gook steeped in relativism-and incorporating such things as school prayer. (It is no secret that our edu­cational system is a complete failure. Yet, Catholic schools, who spend twenty-five percent of their public rivals pro­duce pupils who vastly outperform their public school edu­cated peers.) These are all reforms that are much needed, and, which are in complete support of Catholic teaching. Consequently, "Right Reason" may be proud to support this broad ranged group of Americans desperately seeking reform.  We trust Day appreciates the impor­tance of personas. Columnists who regu­larly appear in newspapers frequently adopt them in order to distance their pri· vate lives from the very public and some­times controversial views they express. Perhaps this is true in Apple's case, and he intends his "bratty" and "temper­tantrum" prone persona to incite his read­ing audience to action or reaction. as the · case may be. Basically, we are dismayed by Day's sweeping generalizations about the Creative Writing program and its students. After all, be attended the University of Notre Dame three years before realizing the existence of the program. Yet, he brands the "world of graduate-level Creative Writing" a "sheltered" one. Furthermore. can someone exposed to our .·program solely through the bullet that appears below Matthew Apple's name be acquainted enough with the various acad­emic backgrounds and interests of the graduate writing students to be sure he "wouldn't dare attempt to match inteUec­:Jual wits against" us? !itt While we value Day's critical assessment i;,):Jf Apple'sjournallstic pursuits, we caution ~~him not to adopt the same "lack of toler­•. ance" he finds so disturbing in Apple. In order to foster Day's commitment to grow­ing up and assuming a responsible posi­tion in society and the work force, we invite him to deepen his acquaintance with the creative community of Notre Dame and attend our next graduate stu· dent reading.  
Conservative or Liberal-which is "free market" economic  NICHOLAS VAKKER  KATHY EATON  
system. On the contrary, a  truly free market economy  Freshman  ESTEBAN GAUNDO  
would be completely foreign to our American way of life.  Off-Campus  Creative Writing srudems  


How to regain NDS Home Field advantage 
Dear Editor: 
I
The student body is the key, but unlike the "old days" (pre 1990) the stu­dent body isn't enough by itself. To explain: n the old days, the student body was cohesive enough to make ND Stadium a tough place to visit pretty much on their own. The rest of the crowd never was that great (though granted they are much worse now). 
It will be next to impossible to bring the student body back to the old level of 7,000 totally crazed hormonally over­dosed young men who all feel closely bonded with the team (because they live with them in the same dorms and go to the same classes), because the domo­graphichs have changed forever (higher SAT scores, lots more women -see below). 
The trick is to use the fervor for the team that still exist among the student body to act as a catalyst to raise the level of the rest of the crowd to previ­ously unheard of heights. (Here the intelligence and mixed gender composi­tion of today's student body can be assets, in figuring out innovative and clever ways to focus crowd participation as well as to involve the many women who attend the games.) 
Reference crowd dynamics: 
Working a big crowd is an art (look at any large stadium rock concert). Someone needs to be in charge with good communication to all the folks who can help (PA announcer, band, cheer­leaders). That person needs to have a feel for the game (when to cheer, when to make overwhelming noise to stun the visiting offense and prevent them from hearing their own plays in the huddles, when to sing, when to drown out visitors bands, when to Jet them have 20 sec­onds of glory) as well as crowd dynam­ics. (Tough to train a student each year to do this, at least without a "faculty advisor" of some kind for continuity.) 
S
The cheerleaders appear to have out­lived their maximum utility as presently conceived (this is pretty much true across America). They are too "show" oriented. An idea: leave them as is, maybe a bit smaller, put them to useful work, but supplement them with a whole new legion of crowd rousers who are spotted (in cheerleader uniforms. why not, or at least instantly recogniz­able) throughout the stadium, every ten rows or so, with a set of key signs ("noise" "sing" "quiet" etc.) The can take their cues from the field cheerlead­ers, and can help counteract today's wine and cheese crowd. omebody needs to come up with a few good cheers. Maybe a couple of oldies could be dusted off, like "Who's a person, he's a person, he's a Notre Dame person" for the injured guys, or We are ND, but basically updated stuff for the 21st century is needed. 
Reference music: 
Music may be the ideal way to help keep momentum going during the incredibly long TV timeouts. Cheering alone simply won't cut it; if they've been cheering right the crowd needs a change of pace. 
The band needs to be gotten under control. The students in the bank understand their role in the games, but their faculty leaders do not. Halftime is "musicianship" time. 
The P A announcer needs to be gotten under control. (There may be times to announce real interesting scores, but before a big play is not one of them.) 
A s a typical TV timeout sequence: rtmaybe let the visitor band do some­thing for 20-30 seconds, then jump in on the end of their feeble effort with out own band. Then get the whole damn crowd to sing one of our four different fight songs. (Witness a rock star getting the crowd to sing along; when done right, this can be very powerful. How to do? Try distributing the lyrics at the gates with an explanation that this is important and we need your help; then get the PA announcer to announce it (with enthusiasm: "Now we're going ot sing the Hike Song, join in please, the lyrics are on page 49 of your pro­gram."[Note: Get all the lyrics printed prominently and well in the program!] Then get the band to play the song at the right tempo.) Then maybe go into a cheer, which should segue right into the play. At which point if it's our offense everybody quiets down (but the offense is jazzed) but if it's our defense every­body cuts loose. Learning all the songs will have other positive effects for the culture, and will also spill over into the: 
Pep rallies: 

Way too artificiaL Need to get the team seated on one side, and the stu­dents out in the middle of the floor ("fes­tival seating"}. Need to make it a stu­dent-oriented event. Bag the cabaret acts for the visitors. 
L
Figure out ways for the band ot make an entrance with all the students collect­ed in a giant swing through the campus. Bring back the pre-rally bonfires and the mini-rallies. Sure, sure, the coach and the administration don't want to "lose control" and the insurance people will shudder at the tought of a sprained ankle. But there is enough space in the ACC (terrible place, but let's make the most of it) to do all this safely. et the leaders on the team have a role in how it's all orchestrated. It should be fun for everybody, and some genuine inspiration for the team. 
Again, using similar music/cheering techniques will help get the visiting fans fired up. They basically don't have much else to do Friday night but to come, so let's at least get them off their behinds. Use the rallies as a tutorial for the new fans on cheering. 
Interaction with other sports: 
This may be a way to help enhance concerted involvement by the women's dorms. Try working out ways to support womens' teams with more enthusiasm, and at the same time get the women's dorms organized and behind the effort to rejuvenate the crowd in the football stadium. 
Same for the men's sports. Maybe some of these other players will be vig­orous enough and help do things like bring the student tunnel back before the games. 
COLONEL PETER HERRLY 
LILLIAN PFLUKE 




I I I I I I' t I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 1 o o 1 1 to 1 1
I o t I • I I I+ t • t tIt I I I I I I I It • t t I I 1, o o 1 1, • o o t • I • • 1 o t I o I, t, • tot • o I • t • I o, , t 1, o, 



ACCENT 
Tuesday, December 5, 1995 page 9 


E
ven if those you love have been esp ally naughty this year, be nice and give them someting extra special this holiday season. Since our dads are tired of ties, our moms' closets couldn't handle another sweater and by this time in the semester most of us are poor and lethargic, here are some sure-to-please gift ideas to take the trauma out of holiday shopping. Accent staff would like to wish you a Merry Christmas, Happy Hanukkah and Good Luck finding a parking space. 
g'~ ?I~ (3ta«4 7~. ?I~ ?I~ &tittM, 

Moms 
Pa nearest you) ----­
l\y at the s '$50 check \oca d licensed
the spa ' ' \ owne •
" a daY at ourse for a private y­
• a silk scarf . . ntroductorY c 5 heck \ocaUY
danclng l '$25-$5 , c \\
" a be y d hair cut\ 5)
" a rea\\)' goo) 50 nail polish $1 
salon li stick $19 · • "Chane\ V~md ~:ke-UP ca:se($53.99. Toys R Us) " personalize Queen Barble 
" Elizabethan 


Dads 
*Plano 1234 Tackle Box ($24.96, The Sports Authority) 
* 
Business Card Holder ($20, Bentley's Luggage) *shave kit *the dapper 

* 
autographed memorabilia from their favorite sports hero (check your local phone book under collectibles) 



~~=----mti\ , 
I.


T -Holiday Dos 
• Do wrap your gifts attractively 
* 
Do buy thoughtfully 

* 
Do try to find unusual or one of a kind items 

* 
Do give gift certificates *Do give something (i.e.: book or CD) you already know is good l\\1 



That Significant Other 
* 
mas. age oil 

* 
a mix tape of all your favorite tunes 

* 
anything but flowers or chocolates *tasteful undergarments (under $35, Victoria's Secret or Structure) 

* 
cologne or perfume that you like 

* 
gift certificate for body piercing: you pick the place, they enjoy the pain (under $50 for jewelry and piercing, local tattoo parlor) 

*something you can both enjoy (all prices, Pleasureland Museum, 114 W Mishawaka Avenue) 

* 
a watch engraved on the back 

* 
a night out (try for something a little more creative than dinner and a movie) 

* 
concert tickets 


*Happy Massager ($11 for large, $10 small, with a free Santa hat during holiday time) 
* an illustratml time-line of your relationship 


I 
* Do get into the spirit and listen to Christmas carols \ \1 * Do remember this is a difficult time of year for many people \ * Do bring a gift to any holiday function you attend, never going to a \ \ 
home in December empty-handed. Some acceptable wines for any palete: 
.. 
La Boure Roi Beaujolais 
Duna Hungarian Chardonnay 1993 
Bouchard Perc & Fils Beaujolais Nouveau 
(all under $9, Walgreen Liquors) 

* 
Do dress up: Holiday attire is more fancy than the rest of the year 

* 
Do drive around and look at lights \ \\1\ 


...

Holiday Don'ts 
b just to buy t of money ­: ~~ ~~~ s~~nd inappro ~~ieat~:Ym;~~t ~hey will like 
what you h~ ,b 1 
* 
Do not uy door on carolers . ght size: 

* 
Do not slam your ·r you do not know the n 


t buy clothes l .
* Do no rkPs to return tlnngs . re the person 
No one l "thout first makmg su
J 
* 
Do not give pets ~~ d of responsibility wan~ that. t~e last minute to buy 

* 
Do not walt untll \e holiday items 
* 
Do not shop at the 



-

e~ ~~ rl~ Sf4U ~ tde to-~~ 19951f/~~ s~ 7eam (eue<t ~~ ~~ ~ ~'t~ att~) tut a-~~. ~ 'J'ie1S~I 
r , 1 o 1 j I 1 1 I I I I I I I I It I I 1 I I I 0 I+' o I
1 I It I> t I I I I If I I I •
1 
0 

I page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, December 5, 1995 
• SAINT MARY'S SWIMMING 

Belles take seventh in Notre Dame Invitational 
By lAURIE KELLEHER 
Sporrs Writer 
and CAROLINE BLUM 
Saint Mary's Sporrs Editor 
In a race against tough teams including Notre Dame, Niagara, Kansas, Pittsburgh, Michigan State, and Buffalo, the Saint Mary's Swimming and Diving teams were able to hold their own with a seventh place finish in the Notre Dame Invitational this weekend. 
As a whole, the team made a good showing against the strong teams. The competition kicked ofT on Thursday, with a personal best time from Katie Rose in the 200 IM. Other stel­lar performances were achieved by Sara Gillen, Allison Smith, Shannon Kelleher, and Jen Mitchell who each swam the 500 freestyle in both the morning and night sessions of the invitational. Each improved the second time. 
"We knew better than to expect to compete with Notre Dame, Kansas, and Pittsburgh," Coach Mike Whatley said. "They are tough teams. But the fact that we were able to swim against them with quality means we have come along way this semester." 
After Thursday. the Belles were in eighth place, but were determined to give Niagara University a challenge, who was only a few points ahead. 
"We were anxious to take on Niagara," Rose said. "We used the strength of the other strong teams to push us to go faster." 
On Friday, the Belles showed their desire to improve. Freshman Tara Thomas, with a time of 1:04:82, broke the team record in the 100 back­stroke, while Allyssa Carneally placed 17th in the 100 yard butterfly. The race supplier! Carneally with a season best time. 
The 800 freestyle relay team, composed of Smith, Mitchell. Kelleher, and Rose placed fifth ahead of Kansas, Buffalo, and Pittsburgh and pulled the Belles ahead of Niagara for seventh place. 
On the final day of competi­tion the Belles maintained their lead over Niagara, with corn­mendable performances from several team members. 
Allison Smith, who placed 11th in the 1650 freestyle with a time of 17:5 7. and qualified for the NCAA. The cut was 18:09. 
''I'm glad that I made the .cut for the NCAAs in the freestyle," said Allison Smith. "The team as a whole did really well. It was a nice end to the meets for this semester." 
Shannon Kelleher had two 15th place finishes in the 1650 free and the 200 fly. Mary Ruschmeier placed 20th in the 200 breaststroke, and Jill Cooper qualified for the bonus finals for her times in both the 100 and the 200. 
The performances helped the Belles to hold on to a 7th place 


finish in the Invitational. 
"It was nice to be able to beat Niagara at that level," Whatley said. "We were really impressed by the accomplish­ment. We may not have been able to pose serious competi­tion for each teams we swam, but the meet was a great expe­rience." 
Watch lor the Orange Bowl pullout in Wednesday's Observer. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. 10 3 p.m. at the Norre Dame office, 314 LaForrune and from 12 p.m. 10 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Two genial guys looking for rides  The Dating Handbook-2002 Things  Bangin' Bed  Hey HUST majors,  Well, look at you, a general, huh?  
NOTICES  home to Eastern Mass. over Christmas break. Will split  to do on a Date. Fun, Silly, Romantic, Unique-132 pages.  1.... Because you can't reach. 2. South Shore!  Hang in there. Journals, exams, papers. No problems. YOU ARE  Oh, well, someone must have told them about my little maneuver at  
gas/tolls/etc. If you can only take  $8.95 to Goshen Publishers, 422  3. Can I do any1hing for you?  INVINCIBLE>. (Or at least keep  the battle of Taanab.  
Spring Break Bahamas Party  one of us home, that's fine too.  W. Lincoln Hwy, Suite 121, Exton,  4. It smells like •••• in this room!  telling yourself that.)  Well, don't look at me, pal. I just  
Cruise! Early Specials! 7 Days  Please call Tom x1173 or Marty  PA 19341  5. Soars through the air like an  said you were a fair pilot. I didn't  
$279! Includes 15 Meals & 6  x3419 as soon as possible.  eagle ... shwoo, shwool  ll'm still thinking that I prefer  know they were lookin' for some­ 
Parties! Great Beaches/Nightlife!  2 ROUNDTRIP AIRLINE TIX ­ 6. Just lilt your butt a little.  Subway. It's so much easier to get  body to lead this crazy attack.  
Prices Increase 11/21 & 12/151  I REALLY need a ride home to NYC  INDY TO SARASOTA.  7. Do you want my number?  there.  It's all about location.  I'm surprised they didn't ask you to  
Spring Break Travel1·800-678­ (or anywhere in the lri-state area)  LV. DEC 22, RETURN DEC. 31.  8. I still smell like Drakkar.  do it.  
6386  for Christmas. I'll split gas/tolls, and  288-0702.  9. Where's the Sangria?  Your laugh is stupid and insincere.  Well, who says they didn't.  But I  
have good travel tapes.  10. Alka Seltzer!?!  ain't crazy. You're the respectable  
Spring Break! Panama City! Early  PLEASE call Bob 4-1244  Drive home in style. 1990 Honda  A final ode to Morgs for the semes­ one, remember?  
Specials! 8 Days Oceanview Room  Accord LX.One driver. Top condi­ ADOPTION  ter. Yeah, you deserve it alter this  The Emperor has made a critical  
With Kitchen $129! Walk To Best  NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ tion. Great car.$8750. Bob at 277­ A wonderful home awaits your  weekend. We didn't figure in being  error and the time for our attack has  
Bars! Key West $259! Cocoa Beach  Positions are now available at  2560.  baby. Happily married, financially  trashed when we designed the lofts.  come.  
Hilton $169! Prices Increase 11/21  National Parks, Forests & Wildlife  secure couple will give much love.  P. G. will have to work on that one.  The data brought to us by the  
& 12/1511-800-678-6386  Preserves. Excellent benefits +  Matador/solid-wood lego sel/$65/  Expenses paid. Call Margaret or  Maybe a safety net over the sink  Bothan spies pinpoints the exact  
bonuses! Call: 1-206-545-4804 ext.  631-5082  Peter at 800-529-8386.  would work.  location of the Emperor's  
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break  N55843  new battle station. We also know  
Specials! 111% Lowest Price  VOUCHER TO ANYWHERE on  I need ride for Xmas 2 E. PA, NJ,  Mustang Sally- that the weapon systems of this  
Guarantee! 7 Nights Air From South  CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING­ SouthWest Air, worth $314, BO,  or DE via rt80/PATnpk; help drive &  Not that you deserve this, but I  Death Star are not yet operational.  
Bend & Hotel From $419! Book  Earn up to $2,000+/month working  x3029  pay; call Jared 0506  thought I'd just brighten your day  With the Imperial Fleet spread  
Early! Save $100 On' Food/Drinks!  on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­ anyway!  throughout the galaxy in a vain  
Spring Break Travel1-800-678­6386  panies. World travel. Seasonal & full-time employment available. No  TICKETS  Driving 2 NY/NJ 4 xmas? Want company?  Cap is cool, Calabria is cooler.  effort to engage us, it is relatively unprotected. But most important of  
experience necessary. For more  Kristen 2342  Carolina and Dante rule the college  all, we've learned that the Emperor  
...30 SPRING BREAK•••  information call 1-206-634-0468  Cover your family x-mas gilts in one  basketball world. Give it up for the  himself is personally overseeing the  
SHOPPING DAYS LEFT!  ext. C55842  shot. Treat your family to TIX to  Spam Man: Please contact Jim  slow, hairy, white guy.  final stages of the construction of  
Don't procrastinate! NOW is the  MISS SAIGON this x-mas!  Yarbrough at South Dining Hall (1­ this Death Star.  
time to guarantee the lowest rates  Need a ride alter exams to CT or  I have 4 TIX for Friday Dec. 29th  6147). I will make you a good deal  If Eric Montross could shoot free  Many Bothans died to bring us this  
and best hotel selection for Spring  NY. Will help drive/pay for gas.  8:00 pm show, center balcony  on a Spam Promotion. You can  throws, Bill Russell's place as the  information. Admiral Ackbar,  
Break. Alter Jan. 1st, prices will  PLEASE HELP. Call Fretel1352.  Auditorium Theater Chicago  have a lot of fun.  NBA's best center ever might be in  please.  
increase and hotel choices will be limited. Leisure Tours has pack­ages with air to South Padre Island and Cancun. FREE info: 1-800-838­ FOR RENT  .I  FACE VALUE: $30 each call me @ 4-3397  Speed racer 1.Anybody else? 2. Leen-da, doesn't that sound erot­ jeopardy. Good ol' #0 has already moved ahead of other illustrious greats such as Greg Kite, Mark Acres, and, though it is close,  Lucas, thou art a huge loser. Ever thought of working for Scholastic?  
8203.  ic?  Stojko Vrankovic.  Top things we'll miss about Treacy:  
ILOST & FOUND I  One person furnished apt.  3. One, two ..... CHONCH! 4. R&B music makes me tingle. 5. I feel good enough to drive!  A merry Christmas to Rachel. Thanks for being there for us all.  *Snyders Pretzels. What a bargain. That is a...(oh never mind. It wasn't funny the first time)  
3.5 miles from campus  6. You're showing too much flesh ..  She's the HR.  •How he never, ever whines about  
JACKET LOST  Must see  7. John, did you get his number?  any1hing.  Ever.  He's so tuff.  
forest green winter jacket with hood  Call alter 6:00 232-0355  8. I just can't stand stupidity.  The aqua RUN DMC adidas suit is  •His mind ... b/c it's in the gutter.  
(Eddie Bauer); last seen:  Club 23  9. Rasey's a hot little number.  coming back in style.  It's kind of  •His unabashed love and devotion  
on Wed. Nov. 29; please call:  2 VERY nice rooms­ 10. Sean's head makes the best  tough to get socks to match though.  for women's soccer.  
..  Nancy 273-6508  1 for Spring '96 and beyond; & 1 for Summer '96  DON'T YOU CARE ABOUT YOUR HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT?!?  head rest.  WASHINGTON. D.C.  • The best line ever, outside of a bar, "He is Randy Colley"  
Brownish backpack misplaced at  Both incl utilities & extras  I thought so....  Jed, you've got to get us the blue  Sign-ups for January's March for  Well, that's about it.  Have fun in  
SOH Friday morning. Any info. call  5-min drive, $240  Unique gilt ideas o,yhich you are  velcros!  Your lvo classmates.  Life will be tonight at dinner in teh  London.  
x3835. No questions asked.  1-4809/232-7175  bound to like. Check it out!  dining halls. If you have any ques­ 
Not sold in stores!  Call 634-2113.  Regan,  I am sad thai today is the  tions, please leave a message at  Joey V -sorry aboullhe quote.  
I lost my BLUE PULLOVER JACK­ Furnished house for rent. Seeking 2  last day.  But now there's  more  1x9006  
ET at Senior Bar last week.  female roomates, 1 mile from NO  THE LAST ISSUE OF THE  time to pursue the whole gummies  Hey there mister can you tell me  
campus. 3 bedrooms, basement,  OBSERVER WILL BE ON  scandal. Hopefully we can play  Viva lhe Women's Resource  what happened to the seeds I've  
If you have seen it it would be  fenced in yard, new stove and trig.  WEDNESDAY, DEC. 6.  "Let's Pretend" sometime soon.  Center! Sign the petition in the din­ sown  
greatly appreciated if you could  Avail. Jan 2. Call219-923-7246  YOU HAVE UNTIL 3 PM ON  Who else will I carry my backpack  ing halls!!! Don't be insensitive or  Can you give me a reason sir as to  
return it.  TUESDAY TO PUT IN YOUR  downstairs with now? Who else?  apathetic. Rise above it!!!  why they've never grown?  
$$$$$$$$$$  FOR SALE  CHRISTMAS CLASSIFIEDS TO YOUR FRIENDS AND TO WISH  Always remember the three week plan. I see Twizzlers in your future.  "I am going to dance, strip myself  They've just blown around from town to town lill there back out on  
THEM GOOD LUCK DURING  Always. Louigi's Bistro.  naked, and do all kinds of dirty----."  these fields  
Call Greg Sinnott at 4-2055.  Toyota Camry 86, must sell, good  FINALS.  You go Norby.  where they fall down from my hand  
condition,$ 2900, 631-3949  ALSO, DO YOU HAVE YOUR  Blum,  back into the dirt of this hard land  
FOUND: 1 Large gold hoop earring  RIDE HOME YET?  You should not jump off lofts  Nicki Emer is really, really cool.  
bet. Nieuwland & Lafortune. Call  because you might hurt your arm or  You know, I appreciate Bruce  
x3252  Hey Ski Buffs ...  Needed: Live male entertainment  something. Also, tell your friend  Hey Guertin -alright, you asked for  Springsteen, but what about the  
for a 21st birthday party!  that when I want someone to hold  it. you've sunk to this level, the  other great star with a spring in his  
LOST: silver earring with black  ND Ski Team T-shirts  Call 273-4959 immediately!  my gum, I mean in his hand, not in  Observer classifieds. Dude, you are  name? I'm speaking of course of  
stone & French hook in SOH.  Only $10!  Will pay$$$!  his mouth. Thanks, now.  so much better than this, but I do  Rick Springfield, god of 80's pop.  
Please call Kristin at X3534.  your bidding.  Sure, you all know Jesse's Girl, but  
Call today and receive your shirt  Posse out...  Cora and Ash,  what about Don't Talk to Strangers  
LOST: 1 knit glove, light blue with  folded for no extra charge! Wow!  just think: next year our phone  Last week was the last issue of  or I've Done Everything for You?  
pink stripes. call Kristin at X3534.  Potter @ 232-2955 -------------------­···········•••*******  Craig Kilborn · a hero to all the youngsters at home.  might actuall y work. only one day till st. nick's . good luck on the  Scholastic! Whatever will I do with my Thursdays?  The man had a marginal bit of tal­ent and used it for all it was worth.  
- WANTED  81 Ford Mustang, T-tops, chrome  The Pull-outs are phat. We can  presentation. if all goes well, we'll have the coolio CD before we leave  nannery...i'm thinking we should  Kind of like me. My hero.  
wheels, rebuilt, straight-S engine,  hoop, drink, make picks and swear  for break  just get cheddar cheese goldfish  Line 'em up and shoot 'em  
I need a ride to NYC on 15 or 16  tint. Runs very well.  with the best of them. Yo rest of  crackers instead of dealing with the  
Dec, will share costs and keep you  $1950 o.b.o.  paper, bring it. You can't touch us.  One word -Blimpies. It goes better  triscuits and easy cheeze. I am all  "And I hate when things are over.  
awake. Ph. Tim on 4-3964.  Call Isaac at 634-1668  Peace out.  with Goldschlager.  over class...mcgrath  There's so much left undone."  

----~------~­
Tuesday, December 5, 1995 
Big East 
continued from page 16 
A pre-season No. 2 ranking in the Big East 6 coupled with an impressive win against confer­ence foe Hutgers gives the Irish reason to be confident. 
Notre Dame, however, suf­fered its first two losses of the season this weekend at the Kona Women's Basketball Classic in Hawaii. 
Penn State defeated the Irish 86-77, and Texas A & M nar­rowly beat Notre Dame in over­time by a score of 88-84. 
Notre Dame's only win, an 80-6 7 victory, came against the Washington Huskies. 
Considering that both losses were at the hands of nationally ranked squads, Coach McGraw was pleased with her team's performance. "This early in the season, I'm really happy with the way we are playing." 
Notre Dame's most feared ri­val in the Big East 6 will be de­fending national champion Connecticut. The Huskies pos­sess some of the best talent in the country, including the Big East's pre-season player of the year Jennifer Rizzotti and pre­season rookie of the year Tammy Arnold. 
Along with Connecticut and Notre Dame, the Big East 6 consists of Villanova, Boston College, St. John's, and West Virginia. 
The other conference divi­sion, Big East 7, is led by pre­season favorite Seton Hall. Last season, the Pirates earned their second straight NCAA tournament appearance and spent ten weeks in the Associ­ated Press Top 25. 
Joining Seton Hall in the Big East 7 are Providence, Miami, Rutgers (which begins its inau­gural Big East season along with Notre Dame), Pittsburgh, Georgetown, and Syracuse. 
Notre Dame's entrance into the Big East has not only af­fected its own players and coaches. Its presence is being noticed by teams throughout the conference. 
"Notre Dame definitely im­pacts the Big East, and it makes 

IUse Observer classifieds I 
Hunched over those books for hours studying? Losing motivation? Neck and Shoulders aching? 
Arrange for an On-Site Massage session On Campus for an instant wake-up call! The Invigorating effects ofon on-site mGSsoge moy surprise you/ 
'\ "' Call for Group Discount Information! 
Relief-In-Site practitioners are members of the Associated Bodyworkers & Massage Professionals 

For further Information Contact:  
kim Becker  
*Gift Certlficatee;  Relief-In-Site PO Box 2831 South Bend, IN 46680  *Jua~ $1 Per  
Available  234-3074  Minute  

The Observer • SPORTS 
this a stronger conference all the way down the line," com­mented Sam Henderson, assis­tant sports information director at Miami. 
Junior co-captain Beth Mor­gan is anxious to prove that Notre Dame can compete with the top teams in the Big East. 
She played brilliantly this weekend against some of the top players in the country, in­cluding a career-high 34 point performance in the overtime loss to Texas A & M. 
''I'm really excited about playing in the Big East, because of the quality of the teams," commented Morgan. "Both of our losses this weekend we could have won, which is frus­trating, but we know we can play with the good teams." 
The Big East has plenty of good teams. Notre Dame's goal is to establish itself as one of the best. 



Gaither 
continued from page 16 
But talk to Gaither herself, and' you realize that this is no pampered star. 
"Everybody becomes a leader at a certain time on this team," commented Gaither when asked about her role as a team leader. "Whoever comes through and steps up their game when we need it becomes our leader." 
Gaither became such a leader last year, when she stepped up her game in impressive fashion, tripling her scoring output from her freshman year to finish with a team-high 19.0 points per-game average. She has continued to lead the Irish this season, averaging 19.5 points over six games while leading the team in rebounds with a 9.8 average. 
Clearly, Katryna Gaither has arrived. She is a leader every time she steps out on the court. 


"Katryna gives us a good in­side attack," commented lead­ing scorer and fellow junior Beth Morgan. "She is a great rebounder for us, someone who the other team has to make sure to watch out for every time we take the court." 
While her increased rebound­ing and continued prolific of­fensive production have drawn attention to the affable junior from Mt. Vernon, New York, Gaither's other contributions have not gone unnoticed. 
"Katryna brings a lot of strengths to our team," said Irish head coach Muffett Mc­Graw. "We need her to con­tinue to rebound well. She's improved on defense this sea­son, and has been more of an intimidator around the basket." 
With the loss of Letitia Bowen, Notre Dame's all-time leading rebounder to gradua­tion last year, Gaither knew that she would have to improve on her 7. 7 rebound-per game average from last season. She also knew that she would have to do even more. 
"I need to do a little bit of ev­erything," acknowledged Gaither. "My job usually re­quires me to do a lot of re­bounding and block shots. But I'm willing to dish off an assist whenever we need it as well. To be honest, I just like to run a lot." 
It is this tireless work ethic which has enabled Gaither to reach the next level of play over the last two years, a fact which doesn't go unnoticed by coach and fellow players alike. 
"You could tell when we be­gan practice last season she had worked really hard on her game in the off-season," com­mented Morgan. "She has a great work ethic." 
McGraw echoes Morgan. "She's just one of those players who is a pleasure to coach." 
A pleasure to coach, but cer­tainly not a pleasure to play against, the hard-working Gaither is intent on reaching new levels of success during her collegiate career. 
"I'm always trying to be more versatile," said Gaither. "I know there's more for me to learn. Last year. I found my role, and this year, I know ex­actly what my role is. I'm still looking to improve every aspect of my game, though. I'm just the type of person who is al­ways working to improve." 
Let the opposition be warned, Katryna Gaither is one player who always puts in a full night's work. 

We have started to take applications for next year. 
Furnished apartments­swimming pool-jacuzzi­tennis, volleyball, & basketball courts­24 hour laundry-shuttle bus-· professional management. 
*Apartments available for your selection.* 
For more information cal/272-1441. 
Ctilnese -·AmeriCan 
ReStaurant & 
C~ktail Lounge 
'-uthentic Szochuan, M&ndarin & Hun:m Cuisir.::


.· 
Bar & Restaurant open 7 days a week 

Lunches starting at .••••$4.25 
Dinners starting at .....$5.95 Vorc:d.Be:~~ . 
Orif!ntal Restm._r.sn&-'

Banquet rooms available for up to 200 
in Mkhiana by··· .~ 

130 Dixie WaY. N., South Bend 
l'rlit'llia11a NtJ\''l.

(neJtllll Rlli:lall'a Inn) 

HOURS: 
EARN CASH FOR THE HOLIDAYS 
$15 if you donate alone (fi~st visit) 
+$5 with college i.d.(first visit) +$10 per person if you recruit someone to donate 
HELP US SAVE LIVES THIS HOLIDAY SEASON. 
M-F 9-6 
SAT 8-5 



~  -----~­ 
•  t  1  t  t  0  I  I  I  j'  
page 12  The Observer • SPORTS  Tuesday, December 5, 1995  

• WOMEN'S INTERHAU. 





Turnovers force All-Star draw 
By MIKE DAY 
Sports Writer 
Some may say pop-tarts, but the story of the women's inter­hall all-star game was turnovers. 
Even after 60 minutes and a potential tie-breaker, neither the Blue or Gold division was able to enjoy the sweet taste of victory as costly miscues at crit­ical times resulted in a 6-6 tie Sunday at the Loftus Center. 
"It was a great opportunity, and we had a lot of fun, but we wish we could have setttled it on the field," said Blue running back Wendy Mores. 
The Gold squad, determined 

to avenge last year's 21-14loss, charged out of the gates in a hurry, using trickery and de­ception to build a 6-0 advan­tage before the Blue division knew what hit them. 
On their first offensive play of the game, Gold quarterback Elizabeth Plummer handed the ball off to tailback Charo Gonzalez as if they were con­tent with opening up the game on the ground. 
However. Gonzalez handed the ball off to backup quarter­back Jen Laurie, and Laurie found Plummer streaking uncontested to the end zone. After receiving the well-thrown pass. Plummer scampered the final 10 yards for the touch­down and a 6-0 lead. 
"It was a play that we worked on in practice and wanted to try out first thing," said Plummer. "I knew it was a good play, but I didn't know it would work as well as it did." 
With fans and players alike thinking that the offenses would dominate for the second straight year, the two. defenses took control of the game. The score stood at 6-0 until a costly Gold turnover late in the first half turned the tide. 
7P:i~::.:~:~:~:• From$1ndianapol)is
& Ch,icago 
• 
AfT Non-Stop Airfare 

• 
7 Nights Hotel Accom. 

• 
AfT Airport to Hotel Transfers 

• 
College Tours famous VIP Party Package: FREE cover charges, FREE parties, FREE food & drinks, EXCLUSIVE special evenla OVER $150 in savings! 


4
LOWEST PRICES • BEST HOTELS • BIGGEST PARTIES 
ORGANIZE A GROUP AND TRAVEL FREE/ 


cAL\. COLLECiE TOURS -rooA'i' 800-)95--4896 
Pnees par P•"on, plus tax•s Public Chartan vaa North-It Autin..(A-320) Tour QQ.,.lor 11 Funquast Vaellllons O.lalls tn Op/Par1 Cont,..;:t 

Houses for Rent 96-97 
•Furnished •Security Systems •VVashers/Dryers •4-8 Bedrooms 
Call Pat MeKelvey at 258-9996 
$FROM 
99 
• Wi±:l 
•!Il.lill 

'399
rif.'t~ 
~""""
...........
..­
Free Parties & Free Food!! 
"1-800-SURF·s UP STUDENT EXPRESS, INC. 


L_ 
Blue linebacker Shelly Dillen­burger stepped in front of a Laurie pass and returned it to the Gold 20-yard-line with 1:07 remaining in the first half. Four plays later, Blue quarter­back Julie Byrd connected with tailback Wendy Mores for a 12 yard touchdown. 
Defense was the story of the second half as neither the Blue or Gold squad was able to maintain any kind of consis­tency at the offensive end. 
"The two defense really stepped up in the second half," said Blue tailback Trish Sorensen. "It was important that we got the touchdown at the end of the first because it was tough to move the football in the second half." 
Following regulation, each team had one opportunity to try to score on four plays from the 10-yardline. The defenses once again stepped up, and neither squad was able to get into the end zone to break the tie. 
"We were lucky to get the two interceptions when we needed them," said Sorensen. "Those two turnovers kept us in the game when we struggled of­fensively for the most part." 
Indeed, interhall football fans got their fill of turnovers. 


The Observer/Brent T adsen 

Siegfried's Jen Laurie hit Eilzabeth Plummer for a Gold touchdown, but turnovers and tough defenses led to a 6-6 draw of the All-Star contest. 

You are not a lllOOCh. But when a hole in your pocket renders you changeless, you r e l u c t a n t l y call the folks collect. You dial 1 800 CALL ATT. Your pangs of guilt are minimal. 
I 800 CALL ATT always costs less than 1-800-COLLECT.* 
Always works trmn an)· phone. And ahnoys gets you the reliahlc All!:if Network. 
Use it u•lleuet'er you're t~Jj' C£1111/JIIS. 
Know the Code. I 800 CALL ATT. That's Your 1tue Choice:'M 


AT&T 
Your True Choice 
• For interstate call& Promotions excluded. 1-800-COLLECf is a registered trademark of MO. 01995 A1&T 

'I ~------------~--------------------~-. 
~ 
Tuesday, December 5, I995 The Observer· SPORTS page 13 
• MEN'S INTERHALL 
Gold Division narrowly prevails in All-Star battle 

Fisher's Dayne Nelson led the Gold squad to a 8-6 win over the Blue Division with a 15-yard touchdwon run in the first half of Sunday's All-Star game. 
ByJOECAVATO 
Sports Writer 
The men's interhall all-star game this past Sunday at Loftus was a classic gridiron battle in the trenches. Defenses bent, but didn't break. The offenses created big plays to open the scoring. In the end, the Gold All-Stars edged the Blue by an 8-6 final score. 
The tone for the day was set on the first drive of the game. The Gold offense picked up several first downs. However, the Blue defense then stood tall and forced a change of possession. This type of trend would last throughout the day. 
The first big play of the day occured when Flanner's Scott Lupo was picked off by Gold's David Meffe out of St. Eds. The intercep­tion gave the Gold offense an oppurtunity of which they took full advantage. 
From the Blue thirty Gold's run­ning tandem of Matt Bundick (Zahm) and Dayne Nelson (Fisher) drove to the' fifteen. Then Nelson scampered into the endzone for the score. Sorin quarterback Chris Bryant hit Todd Kucaj, Carroll's big tight end, for the conversion. 

With two minutes left in the half the Blue defense gave its offense a chance to get on the scoreboard. Off-Campus' Dan Kraft picked off a Tim Nelson pass around midfield. The Blue squad opened it up as Morrissey's John Polk hit Grace's Ben Mitchell on a play-action pass into the red zone. However, Meffe came up with another pick at the four with less ihan a minute left in the half to keep the Gold squad ahead. 
With three minutes gone in the third quarter, the Gold offense mounted a drive, led by the offen­sive line. Running backs Nelson, Bundick, and Carroll's Joe Schenner could choose their holes to run through. But the long drive came up with nothing as Steve Hrovat recovered a fumble at the Blue twenty three. 
The Blue offense took the field looking to even things up. Behind the running of Morrissey's Mark Tate they began to move the ball. On third down from the four, Tate appeared to be stuffed going right, but he reversed himself and sprinted to the end zone on the left side to tighten things up to 8-6. However, Tate was stuffed on the two point conversion run, and Gold kept their slim lead. 
With seven minutes left in the contest, Gold was looking to run out the clock. But on fourth and one the Blue defense came up with a huge play as Grace's Greg Peterson recovered a fumble. 
With just three minutes rfl­maining, the Blue all-stars still had a shot. Polk rushed for a first down, but two plays later he was faced with a third and ten. With just over a minute remaining and forced to put the ball in the air. Polk was intercepted, and the Gold offense ran out the clock. 
The brightest all-star in this con­test was Blue's Mark Tate. He rushed for 95 yards on 17 carries and a touchdown. He set up the touchdown with a halfback pass that was good for thirty five yards. 
The organizer of both all-star games, Marty Ogren, commented, "I think the players had fun. It was a very competitive and really hard hitting game, and I think both the players and coaches were pleased with the event." 

• NFL 



Lions keep play-off hopes alive, beat Bears 
By HARRY ATKINS 
Associated Press 
PONTIAC. Mich. The Detroit Lions can still think playoffs. 
With Scott Mitchell passing for three touchdowns Monday night. the Lions won their fourth straight game, a 27-7 victory over the Chicago Bears. 
Lions coach Wayne Fontes was given a win-or-else ultima­turn by dub owner William Clay Ford four games ago. Now De­troit, playing with great confi­dence, is 7-6 and still alive. with a soft schedule ahead. 
The victory also gave the Lions their first season sweep over Chicago (7-6) since 1983. The Bears, who have lost four of their last five games, haven't won a road game in December since 1987. 
Detroit is 24-13 under Fontes in games played on or after Thanksgiving. Fontes is 19-6 in the final four games of the sea­son. 
Herman Moore, who scored the Lions' first touchdown, set a club record with 14 catches for a career-high 183 yards, break­ing the team mark of 12 in a game shared by three others. Moore has 101 catches for the season. 
The high-powered show by the NFL's top-rated offense was expected. But the Lions' de­fense also stepped up against the Bears, who went into the game with the league's No. 6 offense. Erik Kramer, who had 


Breaking Away for the Holidays? 
Ride 
II~ITI=n I I~A() 
~­
-.._..,....------_......,..-...-----· -___. ·-~
....---........--~ ­
~ 

Your convenient connection to the Chicago Airports United Limo leaves campus ten times daily for O'Hare and Midway Airports. Board at the Bus Shelter on Notre Dame Avenue next to the Morris Inn. 
Arrive O'Hare 
Arrive O'Hare 
Arrive Mi way

Leave Campus 
Airport 
Airport 
Airport
Notre Dame 
Upper level
Bus Shelter 
International Terminal 
All Airlines 
All Airlines 
TerminalS 
Via Connection to 
Tri State Coach
Upper level 
6:10AM
4:00AM 
5:55AM 
6:10AM 
7:55AM 
8:10AM
6:00AM 
8:10AM 
10:10AM 
10:10AM
8:00AM 
9:55AM 
11:10AM
10:55 AM 
11:10AM
9:00AM 
12:10PM
11:55AM 
12:10 PM
10:00AM 
12:00AM 
2:10PM
1:55PM 
2:10PM 
1:00PM 
2:55PM 
3:10PM 
3:10PM 
2:00PM 
3:55PM 
4:10PM 
4:10PM 
4:00PM 
6:10PM
5:55PM 
6:10PM 
6:00PM 
8:10PM 
8:10PM
7:55PM 
Fores to Midwoy or O'Hare from Notre Dome: $28 One Way I $52 Round Trip Tickets con be purchased from our driver or through your travel agent. For further information call 254-5000 
Your Airport Connection •All Day, Every Day 

been sacked only eight times in the Bears' first 12 games, was sacked four times by Detroit. 
The Lions rolled up 419 yards while holding Chicago to 185 yards. 
Kramer completed 21 of 33 for 140 yards. That gave him 3,217 yards for the season, breaking Bill Wade's 1962 club record. But by failing to throw a touchdown, Kramer was still two short of Sid Luckman's sin­gle-season club record of 28 in 1943. 
Mitchell, who completed 26 of 38 passes for 320 yards, hooked up with Moore for a 46­yard touchdown, tossed a 4­yard touchdown strike to Johnnie Morton and threw a swing pass that Barry Sanders turned into a 9-yard touchdown and a 21-0 halftime lead. 
Sanders, needing 96 yards to become the 10th player in NFL history to rush for 10,000 yards, finished with 90 yards on 23 carries. He caught six passes for an additional 93 yards. 
Jason Hanson's 42-yard field goal gave Detroit a 24-0 lead 
2:49 into the third quarter. Hanson's 36-yarder just 23 sec­onds into the fourth quarter made it 27-7. 
Kramer hit 6 of 6 for 57 yards in a 79-yard, 11-play drive cli­maxed by Robert Green's 11­yard touchdown that cut the margin to 24-7 midway through the third quarter. 


~---~~­
page 14 
•Socca· 
G 
any less s 
North Carolina game. ..Their comment to me 'You keep telling us we're here to win a national cham~ pionship and now you' · going to tell us that the · tilling the Carolina game was more;; {lnd women's soccer collLChXl important by not wearing the.·~~:Mter t4e Pilots• '422, green on Sunday,"'Pc:~trucet"::· ov¢r$M{!Friday··· added. "It made sens;e to me."' Charleslef(Satnrday m•>rnim1•!1 
Simply the Best: fltve Notre.A,t9 direct the men's 
Dame players were named to · their wiD against 
~e All-tournament _team dur-•tthatnigl;tti:n:"the l'l...n.n...•.q"!~~·~ 
mg the weekend. Cindy Daws, ~erfin{lls. .~11<!<11.,;;.. 
Michelle McCarthy, Kate So-pleted the··1·il·ilt!rJitmute l 
brero, Holly Manthei, and Jen Chapel Hill with an 
Renola all garnered the flight from San 

Defense 
continued from page 16 
great player and I knew it was going to be a battle. I did my best to try and create things and she was there with me the whole time." 
"It's hard to beat a player like Kate Sobrero and there's no defender I would rather have in front of me," Renola said. 
In addition to Scharff and So­brero, Renola could also not do without Fisher and Vogel. Throughout the year, Fisher and Sobrero complemented each other, continually backing the other up and preventing 

---~~~----------·-------~ 
The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, December 5, 1995 
• SWIMIVUNG 


Irish take third in own tourney 
By BRIDGET CASEY Sports Writer 
The Irish swimmers were back in action at Rolfs Aquatic center this past weekend fol­lowing several tough meets on the road. The Notre Dame Invitational offered the swim­mers an opportunity to compete in a championship format meet in preparation for the second half of their season. 
"It was nice to swim in our home pool after being on the road for the last few meets," commented captain Anna Cooper. "We definitely had our fastest races of the season." 
Overall, the Irish women fm­ished third to Pittsburgh and Kansas. The Jayhawks swam away with the meet scoring nearly 900 points, but the Irish found themselves in a race to the finish for second place. In the end, Pittsburgh outscored the Irish 538 to 516.5. · 
"It was a close meet all the way through but in the end we just couldn't hold off Pittsburgh. It was good for us to test ourselves against such quality competition," comment­ed co-captain Joy Michnowicz. 
In individual results, junior Erin Brooks led the Irish with two wins. Brooks finished first in the 100 and 200 Backstrokes in 58.07 and 2:04.07 respec­tively. Senior Liane Gallagher had a strong showing in the diving events, finishing fourth in the 1-meter event with 
breakdowns. Vogel's mid-sea­son addition to the lineup brought with it a new vigor on the defensive side, while she provided a welcomed scoring threat in the tournament. 
Once this defensive unit be­came cohesive, the only thing that was threatened was a record for shutouts. 


STUDENT BOWL TICKETS SALE INFORMATION 
JOYCE CENTER -GATE 10 
Wednesday, Dec. 6.........•.•.•. 12-5 p.m. 
Thursday, Dec. 7..•..•..•.... 9 a.m.-5 p.m. 
Friday, Dec. 8 .................. 9 a.m.-5 p.m. 
TICKET PRICE: $50 
Payment by cash or check made payable to the University of Notre Dame 
Each ND/SMC student may purchase one ticket. You may present your ID card and three other ID cards to purchase a maximum of four tickets. 
For more info., call the ND ticket office @ 631·7356. 

375.15 points and third in the 3-meter competition with 
410.2 5 points. Sophomore Courtney South finished strong in the freestyle events, notching a fourth place finish in the 200 (1:55.86), third in the 100 {52.81) and fourth in the 50 (24.61). 
On the men's side the Irish also finished third overall. Pittsburgh won the meet with 843 points followed by Kansas with 740 points and the Irish with 512 points. 
"The field was definitely the toughest we have faced in a while but it brought our level of competition up a notch", com­mented captain George Lathrop. 
Sophomore Ron Royer led the Irish with a strong finish in the 50 Free (21.09). His time was only a half of a second away from an NCAA consideration time. 
Freshman Jeff Page finished third in the 200 Individual Medley with a time of 1:54.41 and fellow freshman Scott Zumbach finished second in the 400 Individual Medley (4:01.40). 
In the Breastroke events junior Matt Rose and Steele Whowell exchanged finishes, with Rose placing second in the 200 (2:07.37) and third in the 100 {58.84) and Whowell fin­ishing third in the 200 (2:09.91) and second in the 100 (58.54). 
The Irish will wrap up the first half of the season Saturday with a dual meet against Ball State University. 


Senior co-captain Joy Michnowicz helped lead the women's swim team to a thrird place finish in the Notre Dame Invitational. The Irish placed behind Kansas and Pitt. 





CHALLENGE 
•
FITNESS SCHEDULE SPRING, 1996 
.IQYCE CENIEB CLASSES 
4:00-5:00 STEP Gym 1 M/W $23 2 4:10-5:10 Hi Intensity Gym 2 M/W SIS 3 5:20~:20 STEP Gym l M/W $23 4 5:20~:20 Flex & Tone Gym 2 M/W $18 5 4:15-5:15 STEP Gym I T/Th $23 6 4:15-5:15 Hi Intensity Gym 2 T/Th $18 7 5:30-6:30 Combo Gym I T/Tb $18 8 5:30-6:30 Lo Impact Gym 2 T/Tb $18 
RQCKNE CLASSES 9 12:15-12:45 Beg. STEP 301 M/WIF $25 10 4:00-5:00 STEP 301 M!WIF $35 11 5:20~:20 STEP 301 M/W $23 12 9:00-10:00 STEP 301 M/W $23 13 6:30-7:15 am STEP 301 Tffh $23 14 12:15-12:45 STEP/Lo 219 T/Th $23 IS 4:15-5:15 STEP 301 Tffh $23 16 5:30~:30 STEP 301 T/Th $23 17 9:00-10:00 Combo 301 T/Tb $18 
18 5:30-6:30 STEP 301 F $12 
19 4:00-5:00 STEP 301 Su $12 20 5:15-5:45 All Abs 301 Su $12 21 6:00-7:00 STEP 301 Su $12 
BQLFS CLASSES 22 12:15-12:45 Aquacise M/WIF $18 23 6:45-7:45 Aquacise T/Tb $18 
Make the commitment to aphysically active 1996 by joining aChallenge U fitness class. Regular physical activity can help you look good and feel even better! Sign· ups begin THURSDAY, JANUARY 18, 7:30am at the RecSports office located in the Joyce Center. Classes will begin Monday, January 22. Class minimum of twelve participants. ••Schedule is tentative. Take the time to WORK IN your WORKOUT. 
1 'I • I I 1 1 1 • • I • o • • o o I I I I I I I o 'I • I' I It I 1 I I I I o I I I I I I I I o t I I I I I I 1 

Tuesday, December 5, 1995 The Observer • TODAY 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
WITH LOVE ANO WARMTH ANO 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN TilE
TO SEE HOW MUCH IN LIFE WE'RE BLEST­

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
"EC\R SaNt<\. 14i, i-T's ME, cqL'JiN. 

AND SHARE IT HAPPILY. 
NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Have a clear picture of what you
":Sue.TAAc. ''or'= At:>t>•T"ooN's 

hope to win before plunging into TR•C.I<'\ 1"12-•E.r<D." 
battle. Otherwise, your labors could be in vain. As 1996 gets underway,
I 
you enter a prosperous, happy peri­od for business and romance. Do not change jobs on impulse. A bank loan will ease a financial strain for a college-bound teen-ager. Family arguments prove strictly temporary. Show your considerate side. Do those thoughtful little things that mean so much to your mate. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: singer Dionne War­wick, tennis player Tracy Austin, TV game show host Bob Barker, 
auto racer Emerson Fittipaldi. ARIES (March 21-April 19):· Health matters merit special atten­
BILL WATTERSON 
0\31110\JSL'(, '{OI.l'RE. 1-\01'\~G SN-ITI'­
t HaVE BH-N t=XtREMf:L'< 
tion. Schedule medical and dental
Wo~~ Rat> \\\1:. IJ)~G-, tl~t. ?RI~T

<;iood" Tl-liS '{t:<lR. check-ups. Those in authority give 
I>ISC\£>SIJRE. \~ \1-\t: tOOT!-lOTE.. 
you credit for past efforts. Tangible rewards are forthcoming. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Creative endeavors give your career prospects a real boost. Someone influential is impressed by your take on a situation. New doors open. Fol­low up and you will climb another rung on the ladder of success. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Observation is the key to new busi­ness triumphs. A phone call or letter is a source of hope. Play a waiting game ifa loved one behaves erratical­ly. Try your hand at creative writing. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): A wonderful time to advance your pro­
SCOTT ADAMS 

fessional aims and social aspira­2 ----------------------~Gr-----------------------~ 
tions, which are interrelated. Use in a new light. Make a temporary sacrifice. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 2'>): A loved one may ask searching ques­tions about a money matter or spe­cial possession. Dredging up the past can serve a useful purpose now. Avoid acting self-involved. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Hard work will take you to the top. Use your superb gifts as a communicator or salesperson. Romance soars. Contract signings and key meetings are best postponed until after the holidays. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Put your best foot forward today. Be sensible in your job expectations. Short trips or meetings with YIPs could produce mixed results. Post­pone making a final decision about an income-producing venture. 
SAGITfARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): All systems are "go" where career or financial initiatives are concerned. Listen to your mate's excellent suggestions. Go for the gold in both business and the arts. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): An artistic project could lead to a new hobby or profession. Get together with someone who has played a large role in your financial affairs. Romance will heal up when you display greater independence. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You and your mate are on the same wavelength today. Discuss any financial decisions that must be made. Writing long overdue letters will bring someone special back into your life. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): The momentum continues following yes­terday's exciting developments. You can make tremendous advances now if you have faith. Avoid both mental burnout and emotional clashes. Run those errands that are absolutely nec­essary before going home. 


gentle humor to smooth over a
DOE5 1-\E REALLY 
rocky relationship. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You have a lot to say about your favorite 
WORI<. WITHOUT 
A 5HIRT?' 
topics, but everyone may not agree. A discussion about a love relation­ship helps you see romantic partner 
•MENU  
Notre Dame  
NORTH  SOUTH  
Beef Chow Mein  Roast Turkey Breast  
Baked Orange Roughy  Macaroni and Cheese  
Chicken Teriyaki  Whipped Potatoes  
Saint Mary's  
Meat Loaf  
Baked Cod  
Egg Noodles  

• OF INTEREST 
"The Impact of the Second Vatican Council on the Church and People of Latin America with sptlclal reference to the 'Preferential Option for the Poor'" is a lecture given today by Marcos McGrath. McGrath is the Emeritus Archbishop of Panama and Visiting Fellow. Kellogg Institute. The lecture will be today at 

12:30 p.m. in C-103, Heshurgh Center for International Studies. A Shenanigans Christmas concert will take place tonight at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. Come see and hear your favorite Christmas melodies performed with Shenanigans unique style. Admission is only $1, and tickets are available at the door or at the LaFortune information desk. A Children's Christmas party will be held Sat. Dec. 9 in the Huddle from 7:30 to 9:30p.m. Dave Uudolph will be giving a children's concert and there will be refreshments and door prizes. 
63 "G. E. College Bowl" host Robert 
67 Give off 68 Depend (on) 69Tough guy 10 Unit of force 71 Mineral rocks 72 Three-quarter 
time, e.g. 
DOWN 
1 Maison's key 2Witch 3"We-the 
Champions" (1978 hit) 4 Loses limberness 5 System of measurement 6 Recital performance 7 Reaction to a pinch a Like old lamp cords 90newho 


ACROSS 
1 Amulet 6 Box-office hit, 
slangily 10 Coasted 14 Movie cowboy 
Lash 15 Atmosphere 16 Peg Bracken's 
"I--to Cook 
Book" 11 Discharge 18 Read quickly 19 Russian "John" 
20 Juicy reading 23A B C's 25 Slippery guy 2& Seeded bread 21 "Runaway" 
singer Shannon 28 Comic Margaret 29 Three, in Ulm 31 Conceits 33 Corrida cheer 35 Pants' lowest 
point 39 Nutrition is not their concern 43 Get close to, 
old-style 44 Sneaky laugh 45 Flaccid 46 Argument 49 Hijinks 51 Grand Central, 
e.g.: Abbr. 52 Recede 55 German article 56 Playful, as a 
kitten 
58 City dweller's awakener, maybe 
61 Sticky stuff 62 Sheltered 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

completely 
misses the ball 10 Street knife 11 Tennis's Rod 
12 Where Como is 13 Tightly packed 21 Flu clue 22 New York city 23 Commenced 24 Autobiographi­
cal book by Adm. Byrd 21 "It's--vu all over again": Yogi Berra 
30 Signs on the dotted line 32 32-card card game 34 Old English letter 36 Newsstand 37 Southpaw 3a "Como--?" 
40 Mexican artist Kahle 
41 Anne of TV's "Topper" 
42 Swahili 54 U.C.L.A. player "freedom" 57 Rollerblade 
Celebrate a
47 The barber of 
59--noire 
Seville 60 Prompter's48 Bug's antenna beginning50 Most genteel 

friend's birthday
64 Computer52 Prodded, with acronym
11 0n" 53 Mild and 65 Back talk 
pleasant 66 Author Umberto 

with a special 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­


Observer ad. 
5656 (75¢ each minute). 

.. 
The Observer  Make checks payable to: and mail to:  The Observer P.O. BoxQ  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and  0  Enclosed is $70 for one academic year  
events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community.  0  Enclosed is $40 for one semester  

Name ________________________________________ _ 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have 
Address ____________________________________
found The Observer an indispensible link to the 
City---------State _____ Zip______
two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
, 1 1 1 I If o' I I It r I I I 1 • 1 I I If o.• I I • 1' I' 
, I I I I I I I I' I' 0! <I' • t I I I I I'' I I 



SPORTS 
page 16 
• WoMEN's SocceR 
Defense keys championship run 
Irish blank all opponents in NCAA tourney 
By JOE VILLINSKI 
Assistant Sports Editor 
With one day in the rearview mirror following the women's soc­cer first national championship, it seems appropriate to concentrate on the aspect that secured the title. 
People will point to Cindy Daws' alert play in sudden death in the final or the self-inflicted wound which ended North Carolina's streak of championships at nine. 
There's no need, however, to look any further than the Notre Dame defense. 
"Ashley Scharff. Kate Sobrero, Julie Vogel. and Kate Fisher. They did a tremendous job de­fensively," Irish goalie Jen Renola said following the 1-0 win against Portland. 
That victory marked the 18th time this season the defensive unit held an opponent scoreless. More importantly, the Irish finished their run in the NCAA tournament by shutting out all four of their opponents. 
Through Wisconsin, through Connecticut, through North Carolina, this defense never wavered. As the Irish found themselves deeper in the tour­nament, the quality of their de­fensive effort was elevated to keep some of the best players in the country in check. 
"After being humiliated in the finals last year, it just kind of makes up for that," Sobrero said of the defense. "It's more a feel­ing of joy because we struggled so much during the season. We did let a lot of goals in during that point. Now, when we're finally hitting our peak where we didn't let any goals in, it was everyone combined." 
"We played great team defense and that's what we knew it would take to win," Renola added. 
Heading into the national cham­pionships, coach Chris Petrucelli noted the vast improvement in the team defense and stated his confi­dence emanated from that part of the Irish game. Against two of the top offensive teams in the nation, Portland and North Carolina, the Irish reaffirmed their coach's belief. 
"I think last year we were just growing together," Sobrero com­mented. "This year we came together more as a team." 
Sobrero also praised Scharff especially, as the senior sweeper's contributions often go unnoticed. 
"Ashley worked hard every day by herself," she lauded. "She improved tremendously over the season. I always had confidence in her, but my confidence just grew. 
"We just understand each other back there. We have communica­tion now that was not there before." 
That communication enabled Sobrero to take a more active role on offense as she could be found pushing the ball over midfield on various occasions. Offense, how­ever, is not her specialty. 

Sobrero was named outstanding defensive player of the tourna­ment after tightly marking Portland All-American Shannon MacMillan in the final. With Sobrero on her like glue, MacMillan was limited to just five shots in 125 minutes on Sunday. 
"MacMillan is their best front­runner and we thought if we could shut her down then we could pretty much shut down their whole offense," Sobrero added. "We pretty much did that with a few exceptions." 
"I played with Kate Sobrero before," MacMillan said. "She's a 
Senior Ashley Scharff (left) pilot­ed the Irish defen­sive efforts of Kate Fisher, Kate Sobero and Julie Vogel. Mid-fielder Holly Manthei (above) con­tributed to the team's over-all defense. Notre Dame did not allow a goal in its four NCAA tournament contests. 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 



Challenge of Big East ahead for Gaither, Irish 
Junior forward leads Kona tournament in boards and heart prepares squad 
By DYLAN BARMMER In a season-opening 82-By TODD FITZPATRICK is the ultimate goal for Sports Writer 73 win on the road Sports Writer this year's team. against perennial power Although a Big East title 
A quick perusal of the Indiana, Gaither scored a High hopes. Quality of would be an excellent Notre Dame women's 31 points to accompany the opposition. Strength addition to Notre Dame's basketball team media 
14 rebounds. In a 80-67 of schedule. NCAA trophy case, the Irish guide yields the following win over Washington at Tournament. 
hope a strong perfor­prophetic tidbit of in­Kailua-Kona, Hawaii this These are the catch mance in one of the formation regarding past Saturday, Gaither phrases for the Notre nation's top conferences junior center Katryna poured in 20 points while Dame women's basketball will earn them a coveted Gaither: grabbing five rebounds in team as they enter their spot in the NCAA 
"Her ability to score just 25 minutes of play. inaugural season in the Tournament. 
and rebound inside will In an 86-77 loss to pow­Big East Conference. "Both the Big East be critical to Notre erhouse Penn State the "The Big East has a championship and the Dame's success this sea­day before, Gaither man­greater strength of sched­NCAA tournament are son." aged just 12 points and ule that will be more important to us, but we 
Yet another quick six rebounds. favorable to the NCAA 
realize that we do not 

perusal, this time of the tournament selection
There is no mistaking it: have to win our confer­box scores of the six 
Gaither's contribution·has committee," commented ence to earn a spot in the games the Irish have enormous bearing on the Irish head coach Muffet tournament," said played this season, Irish's success. McGraw. McGraw.
Junior Katryna Gaither has been a force for ND so far this
reveals the harsh reality Make no mistake, an 
see GAITHER I page 11 season, among team leaders in rebounds and scoring.
of the above quotation. NCAA tournament berth see BIG EAST/ page 11 

Football 
• Swimmers take third in invite 
Orange Bowl 
Men's Basketball 
see page 14
January I, 1996 

vs. Connecticut, December 6, 8 p.m. 



SPORTS 
Hockey 

Women's Basketball 
• Interhall All-Star game results 
vs. Ferris State, December 9, 7 p.m. 

vs. Marquette, December 8, 8 p.m. 
at·a 

vs. Valparaiso, December 17,2 p.m. see pages 12, 13 
Volleyball 
• SMC Swimmers compete 
NCAA Tournament Action 
see page 13



GLANCE 


FOOTBALL ~ ;9~: ',:·t!~ ..··.·~ .. ••j; ~:~;~;,fiJ~tf!t;l:;, .. 
~ 'i· '­

! 
'J ·.f"e 's just a man, defensive -·/backs think. He's nothing 1. special. He's not even fast. I can stop him. 
Derrick Mayes burns them. 
"He's just a man," defensive coor­dinators say. "If one guy can't stop him, we'll double cover him. He's not that spectacular." 
Yet, Derrick Mayes gets open. Or he makes the catch in traffic. 
Maybe opponents should learn from Notre Dame quarterback Ron Powlus. He knows better than any­one. 
"Derrick is the man," he says. Specifically, the man with the red cape. 
When he's on the field, Mayes throws the hat and glasses aside and gets the job done like only a superhero can. Dazzling catches look about as easy as walking and chewing gum. Getting in the end zone is about as routine as running sprints in practice. 
But off the playing field, Mayes assumes the mild-mannered reporter image, which is difficult to do when you're expected to be a 
A look ar how Florid~l State and Non;.: 1)am(' march up) Jnd \vho has the.· advan£agc. 
sec page.·\ 
A look at sotuc of tlw 
larger hm..vl ganu..·s .:H1d 
the 1rish Extr~1 Peerless 
J>rognost iclror.s.. 
see pages 1. 
Notre Dame fullbaLk lv1an Fdv~~·,ud.s is Th,~,· t )bscTVL:r\: PLvcr nf 1he 'i l'.n. 


page 2 Wednesday, December 6, 1995
The Observer • IRISH EXTRA 
Tim Sherman 


Bowl Breakdown By 
Nebraska (11-0) vs. Florida (12-0), Jan. 2, 8:30p.m. (CBS) 
Finally, the college football world gets what it should be getting every year, a true national championship game. With Ohio State's choke against Michigan, the way was paved for the winner of this clash to be the undisputed, undefeated heavyweight champion of the world. 
The Cornhuskers, who have been sailing along as the nation's top-ranked squad for roughly half the sea­son, have not showed any signs of being distracted by the Lawrence Phillips' affair nor quarterback Tommie 
r-------------, Frazier's Reisman 

chase. In fact, Tom Osbourne's defending national champions just continue to roll over people with a corn-fed offensive line and a stable full of backs, not the least of whom being frosh phe­nom Ahman Green. 

Their option is devas­tating and their defense underrated and speedy. 
Steve Spurrier and his Gators finally put the Bowden jinx to rest this season. And they did it with style. Florida State, Auburn, and everyone else on UF's slate found the "-Fun-and-Gun" air attack, so masterfully directed by Reisman hopeful Danny Wuerffel, to be just unstoppable. Speedy Ike Hilliard and remarkable former walk-on Chris Doering (who holds numerous SEC receiving records) give the pin-point thrower lethal targets. UF's defense, though, may be quite sus­ceptible to the option, as evidenced by Arkansas. 
Tennessee (1 0-1) vs. Ohio State (11-1), Jan. 1, 1 p.m. (ABC) 
Two teams on the downside collide in the Citrus Bowl. The bowl officials in Orlando are still salivating over the fact that they have two top five pit­ted against each other and they didn't have pay nearly 
L----===:::::....__ _.J what the Alliance Bowls dole out. 
The Buckeyes will still be smarting from the Michigan disaster but bring some of the nation's best skill position talent to the table. With NFL scouts galore in attendance, possible Reisman Trophy win­ner Eddie George will have his eyes focused not on a trophy, but on a payday. The battery of Bobby Hoying and Terry Glenn will be out to prove to doubters their worth. The OSU defense must make the adjustments necessary to prevent another Tim Biakatubuka-type performance from any one of UT's greyhounds. 
Many argue that the Volunteers are the most over­rated team around, an argument with some merit when you look at who they've beaten and how they did it. 
Close calls against cupcakes Kentucky and Vanderbilt have made Peyton Manning's team look very unlike a top five club. Still, 10-1 in the SEC and one of the nation's best quarterbacks are enough to make this one interesting. 
Photo courtesy of Texas Sports Information 
Texas (10-1-1) vs. Virginia [M!!Ililll!!llilllWilliiiR!!Ililllilllll!!ii!R] Tech (9-2), Dec. 31, 7:30 p.m. (ABC) 
Believe it or not, the Longhorns ended the season ranked ahead of Notre Dame in the USA Today/CNN Coaches' Poll even though Texas was handed a thorough spanking by the Irish. Maybe the fact that ~~~~~~~?MJ coach John Mackovic is president of college football's. coaches' association can explain that one a little bit. Whatever the case, the Bourbon Street barons of the Sugar Bowl have two top ten teams whose backers are more than willing to hit the watering holes and hotels of the N'Awlins. 
Defensive end Tony Brackens is the Longhorns' key. The havoc-causing Brackens has been named a first­team All-American by a few organizations., despite the fact he missed a few games with a knee injury, includ­ing Texas' visit to Notre Dame Stadium. 
Quarterback James Brown, who should be fully recovered from a nagging lower leg injury, will have his eyes on the playmaking Mike Adams(above). The underrated Adams has captured the eye of many NFL scouts. 
Virginia Tech has recently been the darling of those who wish the bowl alliance would let things be decided on the field and not the boardroom. Were it not for Miami's long-deserved probation, odds are the Hokies would be spending New Year's Eve SO!fiewhere else. Still, VT rebounded from two embarrassing early-sea­son losses to post a 9-2 record, including wins over Miami, Syracuse, and Virginia. Running back Duane Thomas is the driving force behind the Big East chain­pions, while a quality defense compliments the ball control attack. 
and Thomas Schlidt 
Northwestern (10-1) vs. ~-~jiiJ~~~Southern California (8-2-1), 
I Jan. 1, 5 p.m. (ABC) 
"The Granddaddy" once again has been frozen out of national title implications but does fea­ture college football's greatest story this year, the improbable Northwestern Wildcats. Gary Barnett's 'Cats continually ......__ proved skeptics to be wrong with their undefeated run through the Big Ten. Oh, by the way, they play USC. 
NU and Darnell Autry beat Notre Dame, Michigan, and Penn State. Almost as impressive, they beat the Sports Illustrated cover jinx. The loss of inside line­backer and emotional leader Pat Fitzgerald is bound to hurt but the wave of emotion the Pasadena Purple is riding cannot be underestimated. A loss would con­firm what many still suspect -the 'Mildcats are not an endangered species just yet. 
Southern Cal resided on the other end of the spec­trum. A mid-season drubbing at the hands of the Irish and an inexplicable loss to cross-town rival UCLA took away what little credibility John Robinson's national championship argument had in a New York minute. It's saying something that Keyshawn Johnson talks a better game than he plays. 
LAS VEGAS BOWL Nevada (9-2) vs. Toledo (10-0-t)
Date: Dec. 14.1995. 
AI.OHABOWL 
Kansas (9-2) vs. UCLA. {7-4)
Date' Dec: ~!>: 1995. COPPER BOWL 
Texas Tech (8-3) vs. Air Force (8-4)
Date: Dec. 27, 1995. 
ALAMO BOWL· 
Michigan (9-3}) vs. TeXIiS A&M (8-3) .
um,,~,·u.tl.l9sliii1h #Li' 
SUN BOWL Washington (7-3-1) vs. Iowa (7-4)
Date: Dec. 29, 1995. HOLIDAY BOWL .. 
Kansas St. (9-2) vs. Colorado St. (8-.3)
Dat~; j)jie, ;!il;,l9!lli: .., ,A;>::o.,, .. INDEPENDENCE BOWL Michigan St. (6-4-1) vs. LSU (6-4-1)
Date: Dec. 29, 1995. 
LIBERTY BOWL 

ll. Caroline. (8-~) vs. Stanford (7-3-1)
Date, ~!'lt!. 199$~ d.... . CARQUEST BOWL 
UNC (6-5) vs. Arkansas (8-4) 
(8-4) vs. Georgie. (6-5) 
OUTBACK BOWL 
Penn State (8-3) vs. Auburn (8-3)
Date: Dec. 30, 1995. GATOR BOWL 

· (le1tts0n (8-3) V$. S)'l'acuse (8-3)
Uate,.Ji!n; :t. t996, COITON BOWL 
Colorado (9-2) vs. Oregon (9-2)
Date: Jan. 1. 1996. 

The Irish Extra staff will never be confused with Danny Sheridan but they have put together a respectable cumal­tive record of85-53-6 this sea­son. No spreads are involved so don't go running to your favorite bookie just yet. 
Orange Bowl Fiesta Bowl Sugar Bowl Rose Bowl Citrus Bowl Alamo Bowl Cotton Bowl Gator Bowl Outback Bowl Aloha Bowl Holiday Bowl Peach Bowl Liberty Bowl Sun Bowl Independence Bowl Copper Bowl Carquest Bowl Las Vegas Bowl 


Peerless Prognosticators 
j,:: 
(0-0-0) 

Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Florida Nebraska Florida Nebraska Florida Nebraska Texas Virginia Tech Virginia Tech Texas Texas Texas Southern Cal Northwestern Northwestern Northwestern Northwestern Northwestern Ohio State Ohio State Ohio State Ohio State Ohio State Ohio State Michigan Michigan TexasA&M Michigan Michigan TexasA&M Colorado Oregon Oregon Colorado Colorado Colorado Syracuse Syracuse Clemson Clemson Clemson Syracuse Penn State Penn State Penn State Penn State Auburn Penn State UCLA Kansas UCLA Kansas Kansas UCLA Kansas State csu csu Kansas State Kansas State Kansas State Virginia Virginia Virginia Virginia Virginia Virginia Stanford Stanford East Carolina Stanford Stanford Stanford Washington Washington Iowa Washington Washington Washington LSU Michigan St. LSU LSU LSU LSU Texas Tech Texas Tech Texas Tech Texas Tech Air Force Texas Tech 
UNC UNC Arkansas Arkansas Arkansas Arkansas Nevada Toledo Toledo Toledo Nevada Toledo 

Andy Cabiness 
(0-0-0) 
Notre Dame Nebraska Texas 
usc 
Ohio State TexasA&M Colorado Syracuse Penn State UCLA Kansas State Virginia Stanford Iowa Michigan St. Air Force Arkansas Toledo 

---------------------------------------------.~---.~~--~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, December 6,1995 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA page 3 


The Breakdown 
A position byposition look at who holds the advantage 

IRISH ON THE OFFENSIVE. • • 


Controlling ball, clock essential 
By MEGAN McGRATH 
Sports Writer 
The Notm Dame offense is going to havn to do more than just score in order to beat Florida State in the Orange Bowl. 
The Irish will have to keep the Smninolns fro111 working their top­ranktld offense, and that means dominating time of possession. 
"We're not going to put a whole lot of points on tho board," hoad coach Lou Holtz said. "It's going to eome down to how well we can slow them down." 
Whilo it will be the defense's job to slow l'lorida State when they have the ball, the offense will need to slow the overall tempo of the game. Improvements in the offen­sivn line and the emergence of freshman Autry Denson indicate the Irish havo the talent to control thn ball. 
"The last time we played them (1994). the game wasn't as close as the score indicated," Holtz said. "But last year we had some strug­gles on our offensive line and they have really improv~.d and made some great progress. 
The offensive line has helped Notre Dame rack up 2572 rushing yards, averaging 233.8 yards a game. Junior Handy Kinder has been tlw main benefactor of the linn's improvement, earning 809 yards in ten games. However, due to disciplinary reasons, Kinder will likely be unavailable against Florida State. 
Without Kinder, the Irish will rnly even more on junior fullback Marc Edwards and Denson. l·:dwards is tied with Kinder for most rushing touchdowns at nine, and Dnnson is right behind with 
• Murphy In what could be his last game in an Irish uniform, tight end Pete Chryplewicz should be able to take advantage of a substantial size advantage. 
eight. tionable there. You can't expect 
Edwards is second on the Irish, to be as strong with a second averaging 65.2 yards a game. string quarterback." Denson averages 63.2 yards, and Junior Tom Krug led Notre both backs are getting 5.1 yards a Dame to a 44-14 win on the road carry. against Air Force, starting in place 
But Notre Dame remains haunt­of Powlus. Krug has the advan­ed by a sack by Navy's Fernando tage of a talented receiving corps, Harris, which ended quarterback featuring All-American candidate Ron Powlus' season. Derrick Mayes, who is averaging 
"We're pretty close to being 18.4 yards a catch. back on top, and are capable of The Irish could also exploit the beating anyone in the country," Seminoles' lack of size at line­Holtz said. "But without Ron backer by working huge tight ends Powlus, you take out very a strong Pete Chryplewicz and Leon quarterback and makes us ques-Wallaee. 
SEMINOLES ON THE. OFFENSIVE:. • • 

Irish up against balanced attack 
By MEGAN MeG RATH 
Spom Writer 
To say that Florida State has a high-octane offense is a hit of an undorstatement, in addition to being furthnr abuse of a tin~d diche. 
Bobby Bowden and his Seminoles have eome under lim this season for running up the score on hapless opponents. seoring 70 points on three occasions. Tlwy average 551.5 yards a game and 48.8 points per contest. 
"We eouldn't have pieked a tougher opponent than FSU," Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz says. "It's going to bn key for us to limit them to a reasonable number of points and yards." 

That could be a tall order for the Irish defense, as the Seminoles bring a fast-paced, balanced offense to the Orange Bowl. 
Leading FSU is senior quarterback Danny Kanell. Kanell is sixth in the nation in passing efficiency with a 145.5 ranking and sixth in total offense with 273.7 yards. 
According to Holtz. the most impressive thing about Kane II is his mastery of the no-huddle offense. 
"When they were behind Florida last year, they went to the hurry-up offense and caught up," Holtz says. "They ran it all spring and their defense couldn't figure it out, and they've used it to great success this year." 
Kanell's favorite targets are wide receivers Andre Cooper and E.G. Green. The duo became the first pair in school and ACC history. and only the sixth in NCAA history, to earn 1,000 yards receiving in the same season. 
Green leads the 'Noles with 1,007 yards and a 16.8 yards-per-catch average. I lis ten touchdown catehes is second to Cooper's total of 15. Cooper earned 1,002 yards and averages 14.1 per catch. 
"FSU is danger·ous beeause they run a lot of varia­tions in the no-huddle," lloltz says. "They will come out in the shot-gun, and then switch to the 1-forma­tion and run the ball." 
Doak Walker finalist Warrick Dunn is the Seminoles' leader on the ground. The junior running baek became the only player in FSU history to rush for eonsecutive 1,0()().. yard seasons this season. His 1,297 yards on the year breaks Sammie Smith's school record for rushing. With great moves and superb quiekness to the corner, Dunn resembles the phenomenal Barry Sanders. !lis one drawback is his size but with excellent back-up Rock Preston, that is less of a concern for Bowden. 
FSU's offense sputtered against Florida, earning just 322 total yards, over 200 less than their average. However, the 'Noles were without center Clay Shiver, a player Holtz calls "a coach on the field." Shiver will be back in the line-up directing the Seminoles at the Orange Bowl. 

0 Quarterbacks e 
Danny Kannel! gets the nod simply becasue he has the big-game experience that Thomas Krug lacks. Kannell can make or break FSU's chances. 



l.lliiliiOI!:II..____._~'iilii!J Running Backs e 
Randy Kinder's absence will hurt but Autry Denson and Marc Edwards are durable. The duo ofWarrick Dunn and Rock Preston is top-notch. 
D Receivers 
e 
Andre Cooper and E.G. Green drop their share of balls but are still lethal. Notre Dame's big tight ends could be keys against a small FSU defense. 
..._.......___.,__, Offensive Line D 
The Irish won in 1993 because they controlled the line ofscrimmage. The same must occur for another ND victory. They're plenty capable. 


Defensive LineD 
Paul Grasmanis has been a mainstay while Renaldo Wynn has finally started ro realize his potential. Seminole Reinard Wilson is tough. 
~ Linebackers D 
The 'Noles boast two of the nation's better 'back­ers in Todd Rebol and Daryl Bush, bur the Irish have an outstanding four-man corp. 
D Secondary 

. FSU's defensive backs may still be having night~ mares about Florida, bur Krug is no Danny Wuerffel. The 'Noles have the talent to rebound. 
D Special Teams e 
Scott Bentley is erratic but still records big num­bers. The Irish must handle punts and Scott Cengia must erase 1994's missed PAT to succeed. 
~ Coaching D 
Bobby Bowden doesn't lose many bowl games. Lou Holtz doesn't lose many big games. The month of preparation is Holtz's best friend. 


Overall 
D 
The Irish should conrrol the ball even without Kinder and Ron Powlus. They better. --Tim Shmn.m 


-------------------.------------~--~----~~~-r~~~--~--r------------------------------------------------,. 
.• . 

SCORE BY QUARTERS 1 2 3 4 Tot PASSING Comp All Pet Yds TD lnt Lg AELDGOALS Tot Florida State 153 159 116 104 532 Kanell 257 402 63~9 2957 32 13 NA Ban !ley 9-16 Opponents 48 93 51 28 215 Busby 38 59 64.4 571 4 1 NA 
PUNTING No Avg Bk Lg TEAMSTATS FSU Opp RECEIVING Rec Yds Avg TD Lg Liss49 43.9 2 62 First downs 290 205 Cooper 71 1002 14.1 15 55 Total yards 6067 3799 Green 60 1007 16.8 10 65 
Total yards per game 551.5 345.4 Dunn 43 294 6.8 3 20 KICKOFF RETURNS No Avg TD Lg Total offensive plays 685 822 Rley 30 340 11.3 3 35 Green 3 25.0 0 45 Avg. yards per play 6.86 4.62 Preston 27 220 8.1 0 28 Preston 16 20.8 0 30 
Rushing yards 2451 1452 Messam 18 213 11.8 0 33 Feaster 11 18.5 0 30 Rushing yards per game 222.8 132.0 Dugans 14 157 11.2 0 42 Williams 3 4.7 0 13 Rushing plays 420 446 Harrell 13 178 13.7 3 27 
Passing yards 3616 2347 Pearsall 7 114 16.3 1 26 PUNT RETURNS No Avg TO Lg Passing yards per game 328.7 213.4 Feaster 5 16 3.2 0 10 Feaster 25 12.6 0 64 Passes completed 297 194 Williams 4 54 13.5 1 18 Jackson 3 7.3 0 20 Passes attempted 465 376 Dely 4 24 6.0 0 9 Rolle 4 7.5 0 11 Passes intercepted 14 16 KaneII 1 -3 -3.0 0 0 
Fumbles I Fumbles lost 18/6 32/19 Penatties-Penalty yards 76-731 76-572 SCORING TD 2XP 1XP FG Sef Pis INTERCEPTIONS No Third down conversions 77-136 66-152 Dunn 16 0 0-0 0 0 96 Rolle 3 
Percentage 44.7 56.6 Bentley 0 0 67-69 9 0 94 Colzie 2 
Cooper 15 0 0-0 0 0 90 Smijh 2 RUSHING Ydii/Gm No Yds Avg TD Lg Williams 13 0 0-0 0 0 78 Capers 2 Dunn 112.9 166 1242 7.5 13 55 Green 11 1 o-o 0 0 66 Jackson 1 Preston 39.9 62 439 7.1 3 85 Feaster 4 0 o-o 0 0 24 Wilson 1 Feaster 30.0 50 330 6.6 4 55 Riley 3 0 0-0 0 0 18 Green 1 Abdullah 11.9 15 131 8.7 2 59 Preston 3 0 0-0 0 0 18 Battles 1 Williams 11.5 46 127 2.8 12 11 Harrell 3 0-0 0 0 18 Crockett 1 Riley 7.1 7 78 11.1 0 37 Abdullah 2 0-0 0 0 12 Hamlet Green 5.1 4 56 14.0 42 Pearsall 0-0 0 0 6 Cowart Kanell -2.7 19 -41 -2.2 11 Edwards 0-0 0 0 6 
• THE STARS • • • 

No.Nam. Poa. Hl Wl YR 1 Andre Cooper WR 6-2 194 JR 2 Samari Rolle CB 6-1 170 so BOBBY BOWDEN 3 Scott Bentley K 5-11 178 JR 3 Sony Recorder K 5-11 178 PR 4 Troy Saunders CB 5-10 185 FR 
5 Theon Rackley s 6-2 215 FR 20th season at Florida State 
6 Robert Hammond s 6-3 185 so 7 BillyBrown WR 6-0 180 FR Career Record: 258-81-4 7 Aaron Defy WR 6-0 175 SR 8 Damian Harrell WR 6-3 190 JR 
Against Notre Dame: 2-1 
9 Peter Warrick WR 6-0 175 FR 1 0 Dan Kendra OB 6-2 225 FR 

Highlights: Second winningest active 
11 Dexter Jackson QB 6-1 185 FR 12 Thad Busby QB 6-3 215 so 

head coach in college football, he has a 
13 Danny Kanell OB 6-4 215 SR 14 Richard Brown CB 6-1 189 FR 

14-3-1 bowl record including 10 wins in 
14 Martin Green s 6-0 190 SR 15 Phillip Riley WR 5-11 185 SR 

a row. Coached the Seminoles to a 
16 Sean Kay CB 6-1 180 FR 18 Sean Hamlet s 6-0 190 JR 

National Championship in 1993. 
19 E.G. Green WR 5-11 185 so 20 James Colzie CB 5-10 160 JR 21 Deon Humphrey LB 6-4 215 FR 22 Pooh Bear Williams RB 6-1 266 so 22 Tigger WP 3-6 87 FR 23 Byron Capers CB 6-1 194 JR 24 Rock Preston RB 5-9 183 so 26 Harold Battles s 6-0 200 JR 27 Rodney Walls CB 5-10 160 JR 28 Warrick Dunn RB 5-9 178 JR 29 Sean Liss 6-4 220 JR
p 
ORANGE BOWL 
30 Jerami Rudolph RB 5-10 165 FR 30 Red-Nosed Reindeer RD 2-4 130 sc 31 Lamarr Glenn RB 6-1 235 FR 32 Khalid Abdullah RB 6-0 218 FR 
Opened in 1937 
33 Dee Feaster RB 5-9 175 FR 33 Dee-Lite RAP 5-5 140 SR 
Capacity: 75,500 
35 Todd Friar s 5-10 180 FR 36 Town Crier YE 6-0 98 SR 
Largest Crowd: 82,227 
36 Dennis Andrews RB 6-4 247 SR 37 Marcus Bullock WR 6-0 180 FR 
Surface: Grass 
37 Sandra Bullock TE 5-6 125 so 38 Randell Long RB 6-2 220 SR 
ND at Orange Bowl: 
38 Mario Edwards DB 6-2 211 FR 38 Mario Joyner MTV 6-2 211 COM 9-7-1 39 Hank Grant LB 6-2 224 FA 39 Hugh Grant John 6-0 120 ss 
FSU at Orange Bowl: 
40 Lamont Green LB 6-3 220 FR 41 Jason Poppell s 5-11 189 so 12-16 41 Shevin Smith s 6-0 191 so 42 Jermaine Green RB 5-8 170 so 43 Ronney Daniels WR 6-2 211 FA 44 Daryl Bush LB 6-2 230 so 45 Henri Crocken LB 6-2 238 JR 45 Davy Crocken cs 6-2 238 SR 46 Travis Sherman LB 6-1 222 JR 47 Vernon Crawford LB 6-2 230 JR 48 Todd Rebol LB 6-0 215 SR 49 James D' Amico LB 5-11 230 SR 51 Kevin long c 6-5 262 so 
-CORNERBACK · 22-Wooden52 Demetro Stephens LB 6-3 236 FR 14·Covlngton
53 Clay Shiver c 6-2 280 SR 55 Reinard Wilson DE 6-2 245 JR 56 Sam Cowart LB 6-3 239 JR 57 Eric Thomas OL 6-3 253 FA 58 Peter Boulware DE 6-5 238 so 59 Andy Crowe TE 6-3 262 SR 60 Anthony Phillips OT 6-5 295 FR 61 Dale Valente c 6-4 294 FR 62 David Walker LB 6-0 196 SR 64 Tim Johnson OG 6-4 295 SR 65 Chad Bates OG 6-3 269 JR 66 lewis Tyre OG 6-5 272 SR 67 Juan Laureano OT 6-5 283 SR 66 Jason Whitaker Ol 6-5 265 FA 69 Gideon Brown OG 6-2 276 so 
WEAK
70 Tra Thomas OT 6-8 319 so SAFETY71 Todd Fordham OT 6-5 292 JR 
9-Maore 

72 Jeremy Brett DL 6-3 310 FR 26-Monahan 73 Greg Frey OT 6-4 302 SR 73 Glenn Frey EG 6-0 180 SR 7 4 Danny Campbell OG 6-1 240 SR 75 Billy Rhodes DE 6-1 240 FA 76 Brian Erb DE 6-5 238 so 77 Jesus Hernandez OG 6-2 288 SR 77 Jesus Jones VOC 6-2 145 EU 78 Marcus Long OG 6-3 323 JR 79 Forrest Conoly OT 6-6 325 SR 79 Forrest Gump KR 6-1 200 FR 80 Ron Dugans WR 6-3 287 FR 81 Melvin Pearsall TE 6-1 242 so 84 Myron Jackson TE 6-5 255 FA 85 Andre Wadswonh NG 6-4 270 so 86 Tyrant Marion DE 6-2 252 SR 89 Wayne Messam WR 6-4 210 JR 90 Greg Spires NG 6-2 260 so 92 Jerry Johnson Dl 6-2 270 FA 93 Chris Walker DL 6-6 225 FR 94 Sean Mitchell DE 6-4 255 FR 95 Julian Pinman DE 6-3 265 so 96 Connell Spain NG 6-2 285 JR 98 Orpheus Roye DT 6-4 275 SR 
I  I  I  
1  2  3  4  Tot  PASSING  Comp  AH  Pet  Yda  TD  lnt  Lg  FIELD GOALS  Tot  
68  111  77  110  366  Powlus  124  217  57 1  1853  12  7  56  Kopka  6-11  
42  50  58  66  216  Krug  13  21  61.9  186  2  1  42  Cengia  5-5  
ND  Opp  RECEIVING  Rae  Yds  Avg  TD  Lg  PUNTING  No  Avg  Bk  Lg  
First downs  248  213  Mayes  48  881  18.4  6  56  H. Smith  38  38.4  0  58  
Total yards  4615  3984  Edwards  25  361  14.4  3  46  
T olal yards per game  419.5  362.2  Mosley  17  268  15.8  1  51  KICKOFF RETURNS  No  Avg  TD  Lg  
T olal oHensive plays  801  740  Chryplewocz  17  204  12.0  1  28  Rossum  3  31.3  0  38  
Avg. yards per play  5.8  5.4  Wallace  8  79  9.9  1  35  Mosley  15  27.9  0  50  
Rushing yards  2568  2098  Kinder  8  75  9.4  1  30  Sollmann  6  23.7  0  51  
Rushing yards per game  233.5  190.7  Denson  6  65  10.8  0  15  
Rushing plays  562  468  PUNT RETURNS  No  Avg  TO  Lg  
Passing yards  2047  1886  ALL-PURPOSE  Ru•h  Rae  Ret  Tot  Avg  Mayes  4  21.3  0  34  
Passing yards per game  186.1  171.5  Edwards  717  361  0  1078  98.0  Mosley  10  14.5  1  64  
Passes completed  138  148  Kinder  809  75  5  889  88.9  
Passes anempted  239  272  Mayea  10  881  85  976  88.7  INTERCEPTIONS  No  
Passes Intercepted  8  16  Mosley  32  268  564  864  78.5  Cobbins  5  
Fumbles/ Fumbles lost  25/12  18/14  Denson  695  65  39  799  72.6  Wooden, Rossum  3  
Penalues-Penally yards  53-453  57-455  Farmer  194  19  53  266  44.3  Moore  2  
Third down conversions  79-154  59-152  Sollmann  16  15  181  212  19.3  Magee, Monohan. Tatum  1  
Percentage  51  39  Chryplewlcz  0  204  0  204  18.5  
Fourth down conversoons  7-14  11-21  DEFENSE  T  A  Tot  FC  FR  PBU  Sac  
SCORING  TO  2XP  1XP  FG  Sal  Pta  Cobbins  80  24  104  1  3  4  1.0  
Yda/Gm  No  Yd•  Avg  TO  Lg  Edwards  12  2  o-o  o  0  76  Tatum  54  27  81  1  0  3  0.5  
80.9  144  809  5.6  9  52  Kinder  10  0  o-o  o  0  60  Berry  57  21  78  1  0  3  0.5  
65.2  140  717  5.1  9  27  Denson  8  0  o-o  o  0  48  Moore  38  32  70  0  2  2  0.0  
63.2  137  695  5.1  8  25  Kopka  0  0  27-29  6  0  45  Grasmanis  41  29  70  0  2  1  4.5  
32.3  43  4.5  1  22  Mayes  6  1  o-o  o  0  38  Magee  42  27  69  1  0  6  0.0  
5.4  5  9.8  1  30  Cengia  0  0  12-12  5  0  27  Wooden  42  23  65  0  0  6  0.0  
4.9  11  3.5  0  11  Rossum  2  1  o-o  0  0  14  Wynn  43  15  58  1  0  0  6.5  
1.6  5  1.6  0  10  Mosley  2  0  0-0  0  0  12  Minor  27  21  48  1  0  0  8.0  
NOTRE DAME  • • •  • THE STARS • • •  
Sept. 2  NORTHWESTERN L, 17-15  LOU HOLTZ  No.Name  Poe.  Hl  WI.  YR  
Sept. 9 ~~rdue W, 35-28 Sept. 16 VANtJERBILT W, 41-0 Sept. 23 ifXAS ·w. 55-27 Sept. 30 at Ohio State L, 45-26 Oct. 7 ai-Wastljngton W; 29-21 Oct.14,,Afmy (Giants Sfad:fW, 28-27 Oct. 2f .:::.·A·<~ 38-10 ..........~ '1;•'"1 Oct. 28 BOSTON COLLEGE W, 20.-1 0 Nov. 4--.. .. . NAVY w;-35-17  Tenth season at Notre Dame. Career Record: 208-92-7 Against Florida State 1-1 Highlights: Reached 200-win milestone against Purdue. Guided the Irish to a National Championship in 1988 and runner-up finishes in 1989 and 1993.  1 Derrick Mayes 2 Kinnon Tatum 3 Ron Powlus 4 Kory Minor 5 Emmen Mosley 6 Lyron Cobbins 7 Jarlous Jackson 9 LaRon Moore 10 Mike Perona 11 Tom Krug 12 Scon Cengia 12 Mario Strayhorn 13 Bert Berry 13 John Bishop 14 Ivory Covington 15 Allen Rossum  WR LB QB LB WR LB QB s OB QB K DB LB CB CB CB  6-1 6-0 6-2 6-2 5-9 6-0 6-2 5-9 6-1 6-4 5-9 6-2 6-3 5-11 5-9 5-7  204 SR 216 JR 217 JR 225 FR 180 JR 241 JR 215 FR 190 SR 190 JR 206 JR 179 so 205 FR 230 JR 170 JR 161 so 176 so  
Nov. 18  at Air Force W, 44-14  16 Jerry Maloney 17 Brian Magee  K s  5-11 5-10  174 204  JR SR  
17 Mark McKenna  OB  5-11  182  JR  
18 Clksl Champion  WR  5-10  191  JR  
19 Marcus Thome  RB  6·0  224  SR  
20 Kevin Kopka  K  5-8  175  FR  
21  Shannon Stephens  RB  5-10  175  FR  
22 Shawn Wooden  CB  5-11  188  SR  
lAST TIME  MATCHUP  23 Bill Gibbs 23 Autry Denson 24 Ty Goode  s RB CB  5·10 5-10 5-11  179 JR 175 FR 183 so  
25 Randy Kinder  RB  6-1  206  JR  
Notre Dame 9  Notre Dame trails:  26 Mark Monahan 26 Chris McCarthy  CB K  5-11 5-11  184 SR 194 so  
Colorado 10  1-2  27 Bobbie Howard 28 Ken Barry  LB RB  5-11 6-0  210 214  FR so  
29 Roni Enisle  DB  6-0  180  JR  
29 A'Jani Sanders  DB  5-11  175  FR  
Haghib "Rocket" Ismail's miraculous late punt return was called back  Last ND win: 34-27 in 1993  30 Jarvis Edison 31 Robert Farmer 32 Clement Stokes 33 John McLaughlin 34 Jamie Spencer ~5 Scon Palumbo  s RB RB LB RB p  6-4 5-10 6-Q 6-4 6-1 5-11  213 so 208 JR 203 so 222 so 245 FR 167 SR  
due to a Greg Davis clip.  Last Florida State win  35 Robert Phelps 36 Chirs Wachtel 37 JaN Kramer  CB p LB  6-0 5-11 6-2  185 JR 211 JR 218 so  
The Buffaloes overcame  23-16 in 1994  38 Sim Stokes  CB  6-0  185  JR  
an injury to quarterback Darian Hagen to win.  39 Benny Guolbeaux 40 Kevin Carrena 41 Joe Sabey 42 Mike Frascogna 43 Bill Wagasy  DB TE LB WR LB  6-4 6-1 6-1 5-8 6-3  210 230 227 164 224  FR SR so SR SR  
44 Marc Edwards  RB  6-0  227  JR  

 45 Hunter Smith  p  6-3  195  FR  
46 James Jackson  RB  5-10  205  FR  
47 Bill Mi1oulas  LB  6-1  217 so  
CORNERBACK 2-Roll• 20·Colzie  48 Renaldo Wynn 49 Joe Thomas 52 Alex Mueller  DE LB OL  6-3 6-3 6-6  280 205 280  SR FR FR  
53 Lamont Bryant  DE  6-4  235  FR  
54 Luke Pelilgoul  OG  6-6  282  so  
55 Shelton Jordan  LB  6-4  230  FR  
56 Kurt Belisle  LB  6-2  220 so  
57 Rick Kaczenskl  c  6-4  263  JR  
58 Mike Burgdorf  TE  6-0  205  JR  
'  59 Manhaw Kunz  s  6-0  209 so  
60 Sean Rogers  OT  5-10  280  JR  
62 Mike McCullough  NG  6-2  298  SR  
FULLBACK  65 Man Griesbach  OG  6-0  263 so  
«·Edwlnll 19-Thorne R  66 JeH Kilburg 67 John Wagner 69 David Quist 70 Tim Ridder 71 Jerry Wisne 72 Ryan Leahy 73 Mike Dough!¥ 75 Chris Clevenger 76 Jeremy Akers  OG OL NG OL OL OG OT OT OG  6-4 6-8 6-6 6-7 6-7 6-4 6-7 6-8 6-5  278 300 281 280 262 288 291 265 268  JR FR SR FR FR SR JR JR SR  ··•  
RIGHT GUARD 72-Leahy 54-Petitgout  MLB 44-BUih 47-Crawford  77 Dusty Zeigler 78 Jon Spickelmoer 79 Mike Rosenthal  c c OL  6-6 6-2 6-7  292 SR 265 so 290 FR  
80 Malcolm Johnson  WR  6-4  206 so  
81  Cha~es StaHord  WR  5-9  187 SR  
STRONG SAFETY 6-Hammond 26-Battles  82 Bobby Brown 83 ScoH Sollmann 84 Dan McConnell 86 Antwon Jones  WR WR WR DL  6-3 5-8 5-8 6-4  175 180 181 237  FR JR SA FR  
87 Jimmy Friday  LB  6-3  230  FR  
88 Leon Wallace  TE  6-3  265  SR  
89 Mike Denvir  TE  6-3  231  JR  
89 John Cerasanr  TE  6-4  245  FR  
90 Ben Foos  DE  6-4  250  SR  
91  Darnell Smith  DE  6-5  277  JR  
93 Paul Grasmanis  NG  6-2  279  SR  
94 Justin Orr  WR  6-0  190  JR  
95 Corey Bannan  DE  6-1  228 so  
FLANKER  97 Corey Redder  LB  6·1  220 so  
6·Mo111y81-StaHord  98 Pete Chryplewicz 99 CliH Stroud  TE DE  6-5 6-3  257 so 265 SR  

~.,.....,_______________ 
Wednesday, December 6, 1995 page 5 
The Observer • IRISH EXTRA 
··,,,···,. 



FIGHTING IRISH 

~----­
page 6 The Observer •IRISH EXTRA Wednesday, December 6, 1995 
~M~~a__y__e__S__________________r~~ee~b~le~Ir~is~h~s~q~ua:d~in~1~9~9W4~,hh.e~pe:r~so~n~a~ll~y~;;;;;;~~;;;;;;;;~;;,;;;;;;;;;;~;;~;;~~~~~~~~ 
continued from page 1 
vocal leader. 
"I don't really know how to approach the situation," Mayes said. "When peo­ple are reaching out for instruction, that's when you can feel comfortable lending a hand." 
Members of the the Irish receiving core, the AFROS (America's Finest Receivers On Saturdays) don't find any problems with asking Mayes for advice. 
"I wouldn't want to be under any other receiver my freshman year,'' fel­low receiver Bobby Brown said. "Just watching his performance on the field has helped me a lot." 
48 catches and 6 touchdown recep­tions this season can do that. 
Mayes' 22 touchdown receptions makes him the career leader in that cat­egory. It's reason enough for his team­mates to have voted him the team MVP for the second consecutive year. Mayes joins Tony Rice and Rick Mirer as play­ers in recent Irish history that have enjoyed that honor twice in their carPers. 
"It's a real honor and a tribute to the other guys,'' Mayes said. "They're all just great to be around." 
They obviously think likewise. 

"We've seen all the great receivers this year in (USC's) Keyshawn Johnson, (Ohio State's) Terry Glenn and (Texas') Michael Adams,'' sophomore receiver Malcolm Johnson said. "Derrick's num­ber one on my list." 
Mayes has one more catch and five less touchdowns this season than last, which is considered by many to be an off-year. Criticisms are riding high and visibility is dimming for Mayes, who now finds himself on a top ten team heading for the Orange Bowl. 
"It doesn't bother me," he said. "It's just a reflection of stats." Though he was the only weapon on a 




We will pay up to 50% of the book price providing the textbook: 
.. -Is being used on this campus. 
2-Is needed to fill the bookstore's quota. 
3-Is In resalable condition. 
Example: 
You paid $46.00 for a textbook... We will pay $23.00 or 50%. 




Wholesale 
For books not needed on this campus but having national demand, up to 35% of the new price may be paid. 

The Ha111rnes 
Notre Dame Bookstore
These books are shipped 

to other colleges and 

Monday -Friday, December 11-15
universities where they are needed. 

9:00 am -5:00 pm Don't wait til Spring.

Old editions have no 

national value. Bookstore paying 1/2 price now! 
BOOKS ARB MONEY -GUARD AGAINST THBFT 
carried the team to a 6-5-1 record. Not good for Notre Dame's standards but not bad considering Mayes often found him­self playing in 1-on-11 situations. 
Mayes was the only glimmer of hope on a team of dread. He provided the only solace for fans and was the only subject for NBC's cameras. 
After scoring against Air Force in 1994, Mayes was flagged down by field reporter John Dockery, in the end zone, who took his gloves and gave them to his father. 
"He asked me about it on that Friday," Mayes said. "I told him, 'I'm not going to look for you,' and he said, 'Don't worry, I'll be there."' 
Everyone was at his beck and call in 1994. But the team got hammered because of a lack of depth and confi­dence. 
Mayes contemplated going pro and skipping his senior season, but some­thing called him back. Things like going out a winner and being with his team­mates kept him rooted in South Bend. 
But the 1995 season was not what it was supposed to be. Losses to Northwestern and Ohio State hurt. An awful individual performance against Washington ached. 
It was the game in which he broke the career touchdown record and caught the game-winning two-point conversion. But it was marred by a couple of dropped passes and a fumble. 
"It was not the way I envisioned [breaking the record]," he said after the game. 
The pride factor kicked in when he returned to Notre Dame. Self-imposed extra work after practice was the answer. 
"He caught 300 passes after practice that Monday," recalled Brown. "It was amazing to see that kind of determina­tion. He showed the true Derrick Mayes that day." 
It's the behind-the-scenes, Clark Kent­persona that Mayes exudes in practice 
The Observer/Rob Finch 

Derrick Mayes leaps to collect a touchdown pass against Navy. It was his 22nd touch­
down reception of his career. 
that makes him a leader. Just when you don't expect him to need extra practice, he stays late to work on his catching skills. 
Derrick Mayes working on his hands. What a weird concept. 
"It's a credit to the way he is," Johnson said. "(Excellence) is the stan­dard he sets for himself. That's just the way he is." 
Excellence is what the AFROS strive for. But without Mayes next year, a less­experienced receiving core may not be ready to shine in the big show. 
"There's always someone to fill the shoes," Mayes said. "They have the capabilities and their talents are going to carry them." 
Their abilities can carry them, but if they don't have the mental edge, the road could be a tough one. But that's where their leader comes in. 
"A lot of what he does is he gives us confidence," Johnson continued. "A lot of the stuff he says is motivation. I think we're going to surprise a lot of people." 
So might Mayes. 
In the pros, that is. 
A so-called off-year has lowered his draft stock in the eyes of some critics. And with his last game in the gold hel­met approaching quickly, he can't help but think about his future. 
"Everybody thinks about their next of employment," Mayes said. "You have to think about supporting yourself. I know what I can do. Regardless of where I go, the cream always rises to the top." 
The number one is always there to begin with, 
page 7 

Marc Edwards 
By Tim Sherman 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 


With his straight-ahead style on and off the field, Irish fullback Marc Edwards has earned The Observer's Player of the Year honors 





k an opposing defensive coordi­
ator for a thumbnail sketeh of 
arc Edwards' playing style and you would likely hear something along the lines or "good vision, straight-ahead style, relentless worker". 
Ask a tmtmmltte for a quiek run-down on his pBrsorHtlity, the same would apply. 
On the field. the Irish fullback sees things others don't -holes in the defense. strnngths of the dnfensive. and tmsy ways to piek up bloeks. 
OfT the lield, the junior has the parallel visions -holes in the ttmm's makeup. stmngths of the Irish. and easy ways to piek up his downtrodden tt-mmrnates. 
"Basically, lw does a lot of stuff in the loeker room likB talking to us," fresh­man fullbaek Jamie Spencer said. "Anytime you'm down. lw's there to piek you up. lie's pretty laid baek. But once he hits the field, it's all business. He attacks it." 
This attacking, straight-ahead mode has been a main factor ·in making Edwards one of Notre Dame's biggest surprises of the 1995 campaign. 
"I think he's gotten better as he gets more experience," Irish coach Lou Holtz. "He has surpassed what I thought he was capable of and I expect­ed him to have a good year." 
Much of that success can be attributed to the aforementioned work ethic. 
"From what I read and heard, at the start of the season, I would have said that if anyone was really going to step up it would be Edwards," Spencer said. "And after the first day of practice and I ~aw hi~. work habits, that was just con­firmed. 
If anyone should know, it's Spencer. 
The prep All-American entered Notre 


The Observer/Rob Finch Notre Dame fullback Marc Edwards burst through the Boston College defense during his finest performance of the season. Edwards' inside runs thoroughly confused the Eagles. 
season injury slowed the learning process necessary to becoming the com­plete player that Holtz requires. 
That's where Edwards enters the equation. 
"I do try to help out guys like Jamie as much as I can.," Edwards explained. "The thing about Jamie was that he missed two-a-days and that's when you do most of your learning. It's just a matter of getting familiar with the offense and picking up stuff like the blocks. It's little things like double­checking your blocking assignment before the play. I have another year to help those guys and whoever else they bring in." 
Maybe the best thing Edwards can do in this regard would be to pop a tape of his 1995 performance into a VCR and let Spencer soak it in. 
The 6-foot-1, 223-pound Edwards has enjoyed a marvelous season from start to finish. However, his efforts in the middle of the season, particularly the Southern Cal and Boston College games, were what cemented Edwards role as a "go-to-guy" for the Irish. 
Against the favored Trojans, the bruis­ing fullback set the tone for the game by rambling for 112 total yards, scoring 3 TO's and throwing a two-point conver­sion to Ron Powlus that seemed to tell the Trojan at least one more year to end their Notre Dame jinx. 
But if one game defined Edwards', and maybe even Notre Dame's season, it was the contest against the Eagles. In fact, the opening drive in which Edwards ran twice for 47 yards and scampered 17 yards after a screen pass. spoke vol­umes. 
"We just took what the defense allowed because they were doing a lot of different things," explained Edwards. 
who was three times named NBC Player of the Game. "They did a lot of twists and stunting so straight ahead plays worked best. To be able to run like we did those first few plays was just a good feeling for the unit." 
It was a feeling Edwards was not sure he was going to experience when the season commenced. 
"I came into the season with an open mind," Edwards said. "I wasn't sure if I was going to get the ball a lot or just a few times but eitlwr way would've been fine. I really didn't get it too much early in the season but I just blocked hard for Randy (Kinder) and those guys. I had some breaks go my way and got thn ball a little more." 
Edwards did enough with those oppor­tunities to give Holtz reason to use him a bit at tailback during the Army and Southern Cal games. 
"I like playing tailback.," Edwards said. "It's fun to get back there because it gives the defense something to think about. I'm a different style runner than most tailbacks so it's a nice change-up." 
Just as Edwards is adept at various positions on the on the field, he thrives wearing different hats ofT the gridiron. The mantle of leader is one such role that one of 1996's tri-captains especially relishes. 
''I've tried to be a leader this year so it (being a captain) won't be too much of a change. It's no so much of an honor than it is a responsibility. I'll have to do the same type of things that I've done on a little higher level next year. We have a good group of seniors for next year." 
Edwards' continued leadership will obviously be needed next season but it was his role on the 1995 team that mat­tered the most. And that is why he is our Player of the Year. 

• Graded Position Analysis··Final Report  By Tim Sherman  
Quarterback B+ Ron Powlus' slats declined some last season but he did improve upon tho most important number -wins. Muffed center exchanges plagued the Irish for mueh of the season, but Powlus evolved into a team leader, not to mention a pretty effec­tive quarterback. Tom Krug handled his late season thrust into the limelight with aplomb.  Offensive Line A Other than Northwestern, the Irish front domi­nated against virtually everybody. An early injury to guard Jeremy Akers could have been disastrous but Rich Kaczenski filled in more than admirably. The tackles showed much improve­ment throughout the season. Leadership and effectiveness were the hallmarks of Ryan Leahy  Secondary B-Notre Dame's Achilles' Heel coming into the sea­son. the defensive backfield was a major liability early. However, the maturation of' Allen Rossum and the fact that Shawn Wooden realized his potential led to a major improvement, though it was hindered by LaRon Moore's utter ineptitude.  
Running Backs A Marc Edwards was perhaps the team's biggest surprise (seo above). Fleet-footed freshman Autry Denson also was a nice tind. Ho showed a knark for making people miss and turning a no­gainer into four yards. Randy Kinder lost his starting job in the middle of the season but still turned out to have a productive enough season.  and Dusty Ziegler. Defensive Line B Not expected to offer too much, the front three didn't. However, their gritty play, embodied by Paul Grasmanis, was commendable. 12 com­bined sacks is nothing noteworthy, but consider­ing how small and shallow the line was, one can't complain too much.  Special Teams C+ Fumbled punts were a major nuisance. In addi­tion, placekicker Kevin Kopka was the biggest flop of the season and could have killed the Irish with his numerous misses. The return game wasn't of the game-breaking variety that Lou Holtz is used to, but it did the job well enough. CoachingA­ 
Holtz's surgery could have been lethal but tho  
Receivers B  Linebackers A  Irisb coaching staff came together and did a  
Derrkk Mayes' numbers were not eye-popping but his mere pn:sence prevented many teams  ThQ heart and soul of the defense, the quartet of juniors Lyron Cobbins, Kinnon Tatum and Bert  great job. Two early losses could have made for a long season, but the USC win was a boost.  
from totally focusing on the running attack.  Berry, andfrosh Kory Minor was spectacular.  
Emmett Mosely was reliable, as was the tight  The 'backers made the necessary plays with reg­ Overall Grade 3.37  
end tandem of Pete Chryplewicz and Leon  ularity, often changing momentum with the big  The Irish rebounded nicely from a tough start.  
Wallace.  play. This unit was among the .nation's best.  They provide hope for the future.  

----------------------~-------------­
page 8 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA Wednesday, December 6, 1995 
.­





The Irish Extra ranks the Heisman contenders 

II THE IRISH EXTRA StAFF Editor: Mike Norbut Managing Editor: Tim Sherman 
Associate Editor: Tim Seymour Graphic Design: Chris Mullins 
1. 
2. 
3. 
Danny Wuerffel Eddie George Tommie Frazier Production: Thomas Schlidt 
Quarterback Running back Quarterback 
Contributing Writers: 
Florida Ohio State Nebraska 
Andy Cabiness, Mike Day, Megan McGrath, Thomas Schlidt 

Wuerffel George Frazier 

lapa Ptedlch: 

Notre Dame 32 

Florida St. 24 


''The Most Popular # on Campus'' Notre Dame Saint Mary's f University Villaae 271-1177 271-7272 
''We're Proud ofthe Irish ... BEAT THE SEMINOLES!'' 





r-----, r-"Pa,;;'Pa"'Ck-, r LateN'!iiSpeciai, r Largei1opping, r -LunciiSpeciar, 
I  Large  I I  4Large  I I  Large  I I  Bread Stix  I I 1Small 2Topping I  
I 1Topping Piz za  I I 1Topping Pizzas  I I 1Topping Pizza  I I  2Cokes  I I  2Cokes  I  
:  $695  ~  : : $2295~ ::  $59,~0:. : : $1000 ~  : :  $695  ~  :  

L-----.J L-----.J L-----:.J L-----.J L-----.J 
*From I :OOam -3:00am (Fri/Sat Only) Call the ND Store for Delivery Service 






