
Monday, AprillO, 1995• Vol. XXVI No.l19 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Poet Angelou cancels rescheduled speech 
Iceberg Debate field narrows 
By JAMIE HEISLER 
News Writer 
The quarterfinals of the Ice­berg Debates, held Thursday night across the campus, left the first and second seeded teams in place but eliminated the third and fourth seeds. 
The four debates were given the topic RESOLVED: The Ro­man Catholic Church should allow priests to marry. 
Keenan, which was in first place, debated against eighth place Pangborn A and defeat­ed them 3-0, arguing for the affirmative. 

"It was a good effort by both sides on a complicated issue. The negative side really appeals to deep seeded tradi­tional views of the conserva­tive Catholic Church, while from the scriptural viewpoint the affirmative had the upper hand," said Mike Edney, one of the debaters from Keenan. 
John Gardner, a member of the Grace team, agreed that the topic was a difficult one to research and debate. 
"It was difficult because there was a lot of information on the topic. It was hard to find the information in church documents because there are countless numbers of docu­ments," he said. "A lot of the­ologians and sociologists com­ment on the subject and it was hard to sift through those." 
Grace, which was in fourth place, defeated third place Sorin 2-1. "Sorin was a really good matc~up. We came out 
see DEBATES I page 4 

By EDWARD IMBUS 
Associate News Editor 
PATTI CARSON 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Civil rights activist Maya An­gelou canceled her speaking engagement at Saint Mary's last Saturday, and at this time there are no intentions to reschedule the event, according to Dennis Andres, director of Special Events at Saint Mary's. 
Angelou called the College late Saturday morning to can­cel the lecture because her house had been burglarized, according to Patti Valentine, public relations officer for Saint Mary's. 
Attempts to reach Angelou's representatives were unsuc­cessful at press time. 
She was also expected to 

speak last October at O'Laugh­lin Auditorium, but canceled due to health problems, and her lecture was rescheduled to last Saturday. 
"Again?" was the immediate reaction from most students, whose reaction ranged from disappointment to resign. 
"The College is very disap­pointed this occurred," said Kaye Ferguson-Patton, vice­president for college relations at Saint Mary's. "We sincerely regret any inconvenience this cancellation has caused." 
Angelou was scheduled to speak to approximately 2,500 students in the Angela Athletic Center last Saturday, for which the free tickets had been given away by lottery. 
Writer of "I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings," Angelou gained major literary and pub­lic attention for her books and poetry with themes of racial re­lations. She gained national fame when she read her poem, "On the Pulse of the Morning," at the inauguration of President Bill Clinton. 
"We were disappointed be­cause Maya Angelou could have made an impact on students and on the general commu­nity," Ferguson-Patton said. "Every ticket was gone. It was Saint Mary's gift to the com­munity for the Sesquicentennial celebration." 
"It was not only a gift for the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community, but also for the Michiana community," she 
added, referring to the several people beyond the campuses who had come to see Angelou. "We were excited to attract a speaker of her· caliber to cam­pus." 
However, Andres said that Angelou would not be resched­uled. "We'd like to find a speaker who is anxious to be at Saint Mary's and I'm not anx­ious to go through the turmoil to reschedule," he said, adding that it was difficult to resched­ule Angelou performance the first time, taking nearly three and a half months. 
Students were also disap­pointed upon receiving the news of the cancellation. 
see ANGELOU I page4 

• NEWS ANALYSIS 

New papal encyclical pushes for a 'moral law' 
Pope attempts to clarify cloudy moral issues 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE 
Assistant News Editor 
The recent encyclical of Pope John Paul II is one of the most powerful statements condemn­ing the death penalty, abortion, and euthanasia that the pontiff has ever issued, according to members of the Notre Dame academic community. 
In the encyclical, entitled "Envangelium Vitae," or "Gospel of Life," the Pope 
outlines clear recommenda­tions on developing a strong moral code of law. 
In his statements which were consistent in their encourage­ment of life, the Pope "cut through the fog" of issues that have become morally clouded, according to the Reverend Hichard McCormick, visiting professor of theology. Having written the encyclical "with some dissenting Catholics in mind," McCormick said that the Pope's message was far from evasive. 
Denouncing the death penal­ty, the Pope defines this type of killing as morally wrong, except in cases "of absolute necessity." 
However, the pontiff adds, "such cases are very rare, if not practically non-existent." 
In describing such cases, the Pope names occurrences "when it would not be possible other­wise to defend society" and instances when an inmate poses danger to the "common good of the family or of the state." 
In offering an interpretation of using the death penalty in "cases of absolute necessity," Notre Dame President Emeritus Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C said that, according to the encycli­cal, one of these cases is "so unthinkable you can't illustrate it." 1-lesburgh attempted to describe such a situation, how­ever, in his example of a man standing over a reservoir of drinking water, threatening to poison the water, which sup­plies an entire city. The taking of a man's life in this situation, an example which Hesburgh considers "pretty far out," might be "justified," according to 1-lesburgh, because it is "the absolute sustaining of a whole group of people." 
McCormick said that these "cases of absolute necessity" are rare. These types of situa­tions might occur in "less de­veloped nations," where less democratic penal systems do not take into careful considera­tion the separate legalities of individual crimes. McCormick added that according to the en­cyclical, there must be "a pro­portionate reason" for the tak­ing of life from another human being. 
In addition to denouncing the death penalty, the encyclical boldly condemns abortion. While many Church leaders feel that the encyclical puts the anti-abortion movement back on the moral offensive, Notre Dame professors say that the Church has always made an effective contribution to the anti-abortion movement. _ 
"It's been there," McCormick said. "The Pope strongly em­phasized Catholic teaching on the matter" in the encyclical. 
Hesburgh, also noted the Church's consistent influence with its pro-life t~aching, and he said that with his latest en­cyclical, the Pope "added more punch" to the anti-abortion movement. The Pope's message was "loud and clear" as it always has been, Hesburgh said "I never had any doubt about it." 
Hesburgh, also, commented that the anti-abortion move­ment in general is "a little too strong in some ways," citing as an example shootings that have occurred at abortion clinics. 
see POPE/ page 4 

''' o o I'' o'' 
• INSIDE CoLUMN 


Confessions of 
a college thief 
Hanging in the back Megan McGrath 

corner of the hallowed Sports Copy Editor 
Observer offices, there is a bright yellow fast food banner "borrowed" from a staffer's favorite restaurant. 
It is no different from the other tacky adver­tisements, network sports banners, or street signs that adorn the walls of dorm rooms across this campus and others. 
Simply put, these are the outward symbols of a passion that burns in the hearts of college students everywhere -the need to steal. 
But why? Why do we commit random acts of petty larceny with striking frequency? I think it breaks down to a couple of fairly simple reasons. 
Swiping others' property is like a triple-dog­dare to yourself. You hope that by displaying your quarry, friends and strangers alike will be amazed by your sheer daring. 
There is a sociological reason, too. At heart, even the most responsible people want to thumb their nose at the establishment every once and while, and petty theft seems to be a safe outlet. 
. Granted. these are not the "deep, philosophi­cal questions" my roommate Sheila was hoping I would explore in my Inside Column attempt. But I feel it is an issue worth probing and one that has affected me personally. 
Let me take you back in time to spring of my freshman year: Gilligan's Island Theme Dinner, North Dining Hall. 
For those of you lucky enough to have missed this event, it was like the recent Hawaiian Luau, just more palms and worse food. But even more horrific than the blue jello with gummy fish inside was the Gilligan theme played all evening long. 
Working the dinner was more nightmarish than eating the food. After having the theme song burned into my soul, I had to vent my frustrations at the powers-that-be somehow. That's when I stumbled across the dummy. 
Set adrift in the middle of NOH was a small 
craft captained by what looked like a middle­
aged Raggedy Andy. His red yarn hair was 
gone, his stuffing had settled about his midsec­
tion and his button eyes shone, not with inno­
cence, but with a lifetime of experience. 
. I had to have him. After my shift ended, I 
devised a complex plan: take the dummy, make 
sure no one was looking, and sprint like hell to · 
Siegfried. 

It worked like a charm. 
At first, the dummy was the center of our 
room. He was a great conversation piece. But 
soon, the bloom fell off the rose. The dummy 
had a habit of leaving stuffmg where ever he 
sat. He smelled of moth balls. He was too 
cumbersome to move. 

The dummy left my life as he came, as a dec­oration. He was a wild success as a prop for our SYR, and his fame spread. Other dorms asked to borrow him. He gave he services gladly, and I never saw him again. 
But I did it. I stole something, and it made me feel powerful, rebellious, maybe even cool. It opened me to a whole new world of interior decorating from which I haven't looked back. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily ~hose ofThe Observer. 


News  Viewpoint  
Amy Schmidt  Margee Husemann  
Melanie Laflin  Butch Cabreros  
Sports  Production  
Joe Villinski  Tara Grieshop  
Megan McGrath  Heather Dominique  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Assocbrrd Pm<. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
-------~--~------------_j 
Monday, April 10, 1995
The Observer • INSIDE 
• WORlD AT A GLANCE 
Concentration camp survivors gather on roll call square 
WEIMAR 
About two dozen American veterans joined thousands of concentration camp survivors on the square at Buchenwald on Sunday in a symbolic reminder of the most dreaded part of the day: roll call. 
It was there that prisoners were selected to be shot, caned and publicly tortured for offenses such as wearing an extra bit of cloth to ward off the cold. If anyone was missing, the whole camp had to stand there, sometimes for days, in freezing rain and snow. 
The commemoration was in a cold wind like the one that swept across the hill on April 11, 1945, when American Gis entered the camp the Nazi SS guards had abandoned. 
Echoes of the Cold War that soon followed were also felt.Hundreds of young communists and leftists disrupted the ceremony, waving hammer-and-sickle banners, try­ing to shout down speakers and handing out pamphlets giving the communist version of the camp's liberation. 
The first prisoners the Nazis sent to Buchenwald were communists. Later, Russian POWs, Poles, Gypsies, and Jews were sent to the camp to be starved, tortured and worked to death. About 56,000 people died. 
As the Americans approached toward the end of the war, most of the camp's 5,000 guards panicked and fled. Prisoners grabbed the left-behind guns, captured about 70 remaining guards and hoisted a white flag on the watchtower. After the war, Buchenwald became part of communist East Germany. During that time, official pro­paganda maintained that the camp's communist under­ground had risen in revolt against the entire SS force and liberated themselves. No mention of the American role was contained in museum exhibits until after German reunification in 1990.Camp survivor Pierre Durand, who had addressed a communist rally at the camp a few days after liberation, spoke again Sunday, addressing the crowd as "comrades," while also giving credit to the part played by the Allies in freeing Buchenwald. 
"With weapons in our hands we greeted the American army and handed over the SS men we had captured," said Durand, a Frenchman. "Allow me to warmly wel­come former members of this army. We know that our liberation would have been condemned to fail without the presence of Gen. (GeorgeS.) Patton's Third Army." 
Michael Haltzel, senior staffer with the Senate Foreign 
Relations Committee, said he felt insulted by the commu­
nist protest. "If American tanks had not been at the gate, 
Buchenwald would not have been liberated," said 
Haltzel, an official guest at the ceremony. 
Most of the 5,000 others at the ceremony were camp 
survivors. Many remembered the indifference -and 
sometimes brutality -shown them by the residents of 
Weimar, the city closest to Buchenwald. 
Meir Lau, chief rabbi of Israel, was 7 years old when 
Buchenwald was liberated. He recalled an American sol­
dier holding his small, emaciated body with one hand 
high in the air. "He lifted me up and said to the people of 
Weimar, 'Look at your enemy,"' Lau said. 
Bomb threatens 'Regis & Kathie Lee' 
NEW YORK 
A bomb threat cleared out a television studio this 
morning, interrupting an interview with three top models 
on "Live With Regis & Kathie Lee." No bomb was found 
at the WABC-TV studio, police said. The live show's co-
host, Regis Philbin, told viewers of the threat, warned the 
studio audience it was not a joke and directed an evacua­
tion. A tape of a previously recorded episode was then 
put on the air for the final15 minutes. Someone saying 
he was "from Islam but a man of peace" called the stu­
dio at around 9:15a.m. and warned that a bomb was set to go off in 30 minutes, said police spokeswoman. 


Liberation of the camps 
""'"'!ti 
• About 520 concentration camps and subcamps across occupied Europe 
t From 1933 to 1945, 18 million people were locked up, including Jews, homosexuals, Gypsies, the handicapped, prisoners of war, Jehovah's Witnesses, leftists and artists 
t Eleven million died 
• 
About 6million Jews died, mostly in gas chambers 

• 
Camps in Poland were designed for mass extermination, with gas chambers 

• 
Camps in Germany did not use gas chambers. Most deaths were caused by execution, starvation, overwork, experiments and torture 


t The first major camp to be liberated was Auschwitz, January 26, 1945 
t The last camp to be shut down was Mauthausen, 
May 5, 1945 
Dachau's legacy 
• 
Opened on March 22, 1933, Hillers first concentration camp 

• 
Next-to-last to be shut down, April29, 1945 





Praying church women banned 
GREENSBURG, Pa. 
Two women banned from a church for their loud prayers were at it again Sunday, this time at another church. Despite earlier requests from priests to stop, the two prayed aloud at Blessed Sacrament Cathedral right after an early Mass, the Rev. Richard Kosisko said. The women have been praying at the church for about six weeks. Three pastors have asked them to stop "so that our parishioners can spend time with the Lord in private prayer," Kosiska said. 


• NATIONAL WEATHER 
The Accu-Weather<B> forecast for noon, Monday, April IO, 1995 
Lines separate hlgh temperature zones tor the cay. 


PtBssure ~ 

H L@ E:;Sl [Til 0 ~8 0. ~U 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY Pr. CLOUDY CLOUDY VIa Associared PttJSS 

Atlanta  80  57  Dallas  83  61  New Orleans 80  60  
BaHimore  62  48  Denver  68  36  New York  54  42  
Boston  47  38  Los Angeles 70  56  Philadelphia 62  45  
Chicago  57  40  Miami  81  68  Phoenix  87  63  
Columbus  62  47  Minneapolis  48  30  St. Louis  78  58  

Monday, April 10, 1995 
• CAMPUS BRIEF 
The duo "I Get First Billing!" of senior Michael Nahas and Demlan Nave won the Notre Dame Computer Club Pro• gramming Contest last Satur~ day. 
Twenty·two teams of two competed in the contest, in which the teams were given seven problems to solve, ranging in difficulty from "very easy" to "virtually impossible" in the span of three hours. "I Get First Billing!" answered five cor­rectly. 
Hounding out the top three were team "Yellow," com· prised of juniors Dan Cieslak and Sharon Flynn, and "Hope College B," named after the visiting college which sent two teams. "Yellow" solved four problems, and "Hope College B" tackled three. 
Also St}:Qdillg' ..... the Notre t>a.me· . p Heidelberg College. The rs,;; prize winners won $10()1t: Second place took $50, third place earned $25 
Three "door prizealso given on differen: The "We Are Wrong, B Are Fast Award" was giv .. to; the team that made the fh'St incorrect submission and the most wrong submissions. TJi&ffi pair of Dawn Vigo and Lui~:~: Castillo, the "Coding Mentors" were the winners of thi$, The ·· contest was sponsored by the department of computer $ci~ ence and engineering and the student Association Computing Machinery; 
The Observer • NEWS page 3 
Musicians play their hearts out at the Collegiate Jazz Festival held Friday and Saturday at Stepan
• Unique and one... of.·a... kind jewelry • • At Affordable Prices • 
Basu named Hopkins Scholar 
•Getting Engaged? 
By JAMIE HEISLER News Writer

• Need a Graduation Gift? 
Notre Dame Professor Sub­hash Basu was recently accept­ed into the Johns Hopkins

Stop by or call for an appointment 

Wed...Fri 10...3 
Society of Scholars, an associa­tion that honors former post­


Sat 10... 1 
doctoral fellows of the University, who have distin­

*Special Discount for ND students 
Engagement Rings 
10%-15% OFF!

Gray Building w/Red Doors Across from Tracks 
Official Wholesale Price List! 
S.A. Peck & Co. 
55 E. Washington, Chicago, /L 60602 For a Frte 32-Page Color Catalog To/1-Frtt (800) 922-0090 FAX (312) 977-0248 



2030 South Bend Ave. 
(219)273--1 041 
lnttmtl CaJalog aJ blip: llwww.sapeck.com/sapeck 




FRESHMEN: 
help coordinate next year's 
SOPtlOt\OQf LllmflQY 
ffSTIVfl. 

Pick up an application to be on the xecutive committee in the Student Union Board Office, 2nd Floor LaFortune. 
Applications due Thesday, Aprilll. 
guished themselves in their has also established his name respective fields. both nationally and internation­ally in the fields of chemistry 
"You have to achieve certain and biochemistry. stages in your life-it's not easy to achieve,"said Basu, a profes­"I am happy that at least peo­sor of chemistry and biochem­ple at Johns Hopkins did not istry. forget me after 25 years. It will 
be nice to go back among 

Basu worked at Johns friends," said Basu who will be Hopkins as a postdoctoral fel­traveling to Baltimore in May low in 1966 then later as a for the induction ceremony. research assistant. A postdoc­toral fellow is the training in a The society, which is com­specific field that follows the posed of approximately 300 earning of a Ph.D. scholars, will be inducting 12 
new members this year among 

Candidates for membership whom is scientist Harry Eagle, in the society not only had to who grew the first cancer cells have worked as a postdoctoral and without whom no cancer fellow at the University but also research would be possible. must have shown "marked dis­tinction in their field of scholar­Other current members in­ly or professional interest." clude Notre Dame faculty mem­Basu has not only worked at bers Dr. Thomas Fehlner and Notre Dame for 25 years, but Dr. Nathan Hatch. 
··········... ....... ..··•·••:·"· ,.,... ....········ 
.. .. .~... . ..
... ..... .. .. ..... ..
•• •• ~ •• •• 
~J~ -.....A,·r.r 
O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
The movies as they were meant to be: Classic films. Big screen. Bargain prices. 
Tuesday,Aprilll, 1:30 and 7:30p.m. 
James Stewart Kim Novak in Alfred Hitchcock's 

VERTIGO 
To say that Vertigo finds Hitchcock at his most obsessive, his most perverse and his sexual best doesn't begin to convey how very haunting-or bizarre-this film is. Police detective Stewart must overcome both a nasty fear of heights and an obsession with Novak in a truly eerie tale of passion. One of Hitchcock's best. 

Debates 
continued from page 1 

pretty slow because there were computer problems with the first affirmative and so it had to be adlihed. Our second atr1rmative cleaned up though," said Gardner. 
In the Howard/ Cavanaugh debate, second place Howard maintained their position, de­feating seventh place Ca­vanaugh. 
The debate had an organiza­tional problem which affected the outcome of the debate. In the quarterfinals there are sup­posed to be three judges, how­ever only two of them showed up. 
At the first vote, the judges were split with one judge vot­ing for each team. The judges then had to discuss their deci­sions with each other, finally choosing Howard as the win­ner. 
Angelon 
continued from page 1 

The student leadership re­treat that took place this week­end was originally scheduled for Saturday and Sunday, but the Student Activities Board re­vamped the weekend to ac­commodate Angelou. 
"When I got off the bus after the retreat, I saw the fluores­c(mt sigris. The performance had been canceled and I was thor.oughly disappointed, " Board of Governance President Sarah Sullivan said. 
"We ended our retreat with Angelou's poem 'Phenomenal Woman.'" We went around and discussed what qualities make phenomenal women, and so our return to campus was anti-climactic," Sullivan added. 
Andres said that it was a challenge to relay the cancella­tion message to 2500 people 
"It was one of our better rounds; there was a lot of clash. It was what you would expect a match to look like. It was very, very close but came down to the fact that we made more argumentation. I was disappointed with the organi­zation. It was unfair for both the teams and the judges," said Natalie Bernal, the moderator of the debate. 
In the fourth debate, sixth ranked Stanford defeated third ranked Breen-Phillips 2-1. 
"It went well for our team. It was very close and I think ei­ther side had the chance to win in the minds of the judges, but Jason Spak and Karen Dubay were able to get a slight edge in persuasiveness," said Chris Regan, a member of the Stan­ford team. 
The semi-final round will take place on Thursday, April 11, and has been given the topic RESOLVED: Marijuana should be legalized. 



Pope 

continued from page 1 
"No matter how you slice it," Hesburgh said, "it's the taking of life." This is morally inconsistent, according to Hesburgh, because "if you're against abortion, you're pro­life." 
In describing the "consistent ethic of life" that he said the Pope outlines in his encyclical. Hesburgh mentioned a metaphor used by Cardinal Joseph Bernardin of Chicago. 
Bernardin's symbol of a seamless garment illustrates what Hesburgh calls "a con­stant cherishing oflife." 
"If you're for life, you're for life at every age," Hesburgh said, and he stated the impor­tance of caring for children, in­cluding those who are saved from abortion. 
Government, rebels set time for peace talks 
Associated Press 

OCOSINGO, Mexico 
The government and peasant­backed rebels are making a new effort to end a lingering rebellion that has fed worries of Mexican instability in the midst of economic crisis. 
Government and rebel nego­tiators met Sunday to set a time, place and agenda for talks aimed at ending the 16­month-old uprising, one of sev­eral factors behind the shakeup of the Mexican economy. 
The meeting, in the village of San Miguel west of Ocosingo, was the first formal talks be­tween the government and the Zapatista National Revolution­ary Army in more than a year. 
within six hours. Even though as many people as pos­sible were notified, some ticket holders still showed up for the performance. 
When the event was resched­uled and moved to Angela Ath­letic Facility, money was in­vested in curtains for the ceil­ing, special lighting, sound sys­tem improvements, and decora­tions, according to Andres. 
Though the event will not be rescheduled, the college will look into the possibility of bringing in another speaker as a gift to students and to the community, according to Direc­tor of Multicultural Affairs Maricela Ramirez. 

Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 

In commenting on the extent to which the Pope directed his encyclical to the U.S., Hesburgh said the Pope's encyclical is meant "for the whole world." 
"There are more abortions per capita in Poland than in the U.S.," he noted. "Italy passes laws permitting abortions, and 
France is  even worse than  
that."  
McCormick  agreed  the  

"Gospel of Life" was written "for the entire Church." He named Holland as one example of a country other than the U.S. in which abortion is contribut­ing to, what the Pope calls, "a culture of death." 
McCormick said that the Pope had the U.S. "in his cross hairs" when he wrote the encyclical, which, McCormick said, may have been directed toward the 
U.S. in certain sections, specifi­cally in sections where "rights" are mentioned. 
Professor of theology, the Reverend Richard McBrien, 
C.S.C. told the Associated Press that "a lot of this encyclical is directed at the U.S., make no mistake about it." 
According to McBrien, the Pope borrowed the "culture of death" metaphor from New York's Cardinal John O'Connor, who assisted in the drafting of the statement. 
While reaction to the week­old encyclical may still con­tained within the discussion by Church authority, the effects of the document will soon be sensed in arguments outside the realm of the Church. 
According to McCormick, the most "conflicting" issues that will come as a result of the "Gospel of Life" will be those concerning the conflict between civil and moral law. 
The Associated Press con­tributed to this article. 



VOLLE 
......~..~.....,AYS 21 & April11, 18 & 25 rr.~111iJoyce Center 8:00·11:00 PM 
·~~..... :hu"'-----·-1" or Bring Your Friends! 
·.:· Es~blished T~!IJf.;.J!ot~~s~ .631-6100 . Y: ' i#h · 

GREAT NEWS! 
It's Not Too Late to Apply for Summer or Fall '95 
Application deadline: May 1st 
Call for more details today! 
Boston University International Programs 232 Bay State Road Boston, MA 02215 Tel. 617/353.9888 FAX 617/353.5402 
& 
~ 
An equal opportunity, affirmative action institution 

Monday, April 10, 1995 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 5 



Job loss hits 5.5 percent in March 
By MARTIN CRUTSINGER 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The nation's unemployment rate edged up to 5.5 percent in March as manufacturing, which had been a standout performer, suffered widespread job losses for the first time in 15 months. 
Today's Labor Department report shook Wall Street while private economists wondered whether the uptick in jobless­ness was the long-awaited pause after a period of torrid growth or something more se­vere. 
The government said the 0.1 percent point rise in the jobless rate, from 5.4 percent in February, reflected a slowdown in manufacturing, which had been adding workers at a rapid clip since last October. 
In all, payroll employment climbed by 203,000 jobs last month, but that was markedly lower than the 345,000 gain in 
ECONOMIC INDICATOR 
United States 
emilorment 
UNEMPLOYMENT 
7.5% 
7.0 
AMJJASONDJFM 
1994 '95 
13:tJ:tHJI~IiJ.\j:t•l!II•l:fl 
Monthly increase in non·farm jobs, in thousands. 
sOo 
500 



~~~lb

AM J J AS 0 !1:-N~D-"!-J-'!!F~M 
1994 1995 

=<="----­
February. Because more people entered the labor market than 
In and out, no one got hurt? 
Happy 21st Birthday, Lanny! 
Love, The PW Fancy Girls 
found jobs, the unemployment rate rose. 
While the stock market has been setting record highs of late on any new evidence that the economy is slowing to a more sustainable pace, today's report triggered a sell-off. 
At noon, the Dow Jones in­dustrial average, which had set a new record on Thursday, was off 30 points. The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond was off as well, as investors worried about a new slide in the dollar, which set another record low against the Japanese yen. 
While many economists be­lieve the Fed has successfully engineered the tricky maneu­ver known as a "soft landing" -in which growth is slowed enough to keep inflation in check but not so much that the country is dumped into reces­sion -the new unemployment figures raised doubts about just how severe the slowdown will be. 
Rally forms at Capitol over violence on women 
By CONNIE CASS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Women's rights supporters rallied near the Capitol Sunday to protest "violence against women" -a term they applied not only to rape and battering but also to political assaults on welfare spending, abortion and afflrmative action. 
"As women have been able to take some small measure of power, we're facing a fierce backlash," Patricia Ireland, president of the National Orga­nization for Women, told the crowd. 
Thousands of people spread across the National Mall for the five-hour rally, organized by NOW and endorsed by more than 700 groups, including abortion-rights supporters, la­bor unions, civil rights groups, 
BAND BLOOD DRIVE 
Tuesday, April11 11 am-6pm Sign up at the Band Building, Walk in on Tuesday, or call1-713 6 for a 1 5 minute time slot. But most of all, 
GIVE BLOOD AND SAVE A UFE[ 
gay and lesbian organizations, environmentalists, socialists, victims' rights advocates, and welfare recipients. 
The U.S. Park Police, using helicopters, counted 50,000 people at the rally. Ireland gave a much larger estimate of 200,000. 
Coming at the end of the first 100 days of the new GOP-led Congress, the "Rally for Wom­en's Lives" focused heavily on the agendas of House Speaker Newt Gingrich, R-Ga., and other conservative politicians. 
Speakers voiced fears that Congress would curtail abor­tion rights, cut spending on welfare programs for women and children, dismantle affir­mative action programs for women and minorities, and cut funding to prevent domestic violence and aid its victims. They equated what they called "political violence" with physi­
cal attacks. 
"Be it personal terror or political terror, it has just one purpose -control," said Eleanor Smeal, president of The Feminist Majority. "We are the majority. Our rights will only be taken away if we allow the terrorists to reign." 
Hoisting signs that read "NOW, Not Newt" and "Republicans Don't Need Abor­tions, They Eat Their Young," demonstrators chanted "We won't go back." A few women stripped to their bras, and some went topless in the warm sun. Men and children also were sprinkled through the crowd. 


~-~--~---~---------­





Two Islamic bombings jolt Israeli peace talks 
By DONNA ABU-NASR 
Associated Press 

KFAR DAROM, Gaza Strip 
Islamic militants opposed to the lsrael-PLO peace process struck twice Sunday, killing seven Israelis and wounding dozens in suicide attacks near isolated Jewish settlements in the Gaza Strip. 
Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin said he would continue talks with the PLO despite calls by right-wing opponents and some of his allies to halt them in protest. 
Israel Radio said PLO leader Yasser Arafat called Rabin to offer condolences and that Ra­bin asked him to do more to rein in the militants. 
In Washington, President Clinton issued a statement con­demning the attacks. "Those responsible must not and shall not be allowed to deny a better future of hope and reconcilia­tion to the region," he said. 
The first attack took place around noon. A van parked by the main Gaza highway ex­ploded near an Israeli bus, killing six people, said Brig. Gen. Doron Almog, Israel's commander in Gaza. Officials said 34 people were wounded. 
Two hours later, about six miles up the road, a Palestinian car drove into an Israeli convoy of military and civilian cars and exploded, Almog said. One Israeli was killed and 11 wounded, includ­ing two girls ages 2 and 4. 
Israel Radio said six of the seven Israelis killed were sol­diers. Two soldiers were criti­cally wounded. 
The militant group Islamic Ji­had claimed responsibility for the first attack and said it was carried out by Khaled Mah­moud Khatib, a 24-year-old construction worker. Sources in the group Hamas confirmed a report that the group's mili­tary wing, Izzedine al-Qassam, staged the second attack. 
More than 100 fundamental­
ist youths gathered at Khatib's 
home in the Nuseirat refugee 
camp, their cries for revenge 
mingling with the wails of 
women from inside the house 
and the crack of gunshots fired 
into the air. 

"The language of bullets is 
the only one that will guaran­
tee the departure of the enemy 
from our territory," one Is­
lamic Jihad activist intoned 
through a loudspeaker. 

Israel TV showed footage 
from a video being circulated 
in Gaza by Islamic Jihad, in 
which the group claimed 
responsibility. It showed a man 
wearing a black and white kaf­
fiyeh, or headdress, holding 
two photographs of an uniden­
tified man. 

Arafat did not say how he 
would respond to the latest vio­
lence, but strongly condemned 
the attacks. "We are commit­
ted to confronting terrorism. 
These people are the enemies 
of peace," Arafat said. 

Secretary of State Warren 
Christopher called Arafat and 
asked him to disarm the mili­
tants, Palestinian officials said. 
Rabin, who toured the bus 
bomb site as experts were still 
bJowing up suspicious objects, 
credited the closure of the 
West Bank and Gaza with pre­
venting such attacks inside 
Israel itself. 

The closure, which has kept 
thousands of Palestinians from their jobs in Israel, was imple­mented following a January suicide bombing that killed 21 people in central IsraeL 
"We won't stop the negotia­tions,'' Rabin said. 
The bus was attacked near the fenced-in Kfar Darom set­tlement in the heart of au­tonomous Gaza. Witnesses said the blast ripped its side ofT and hurled bodies into the air. The twisted and blackened remains of a blue vehicle, apparently the van that held the explo­sives, lay nearby. 
Reporters at the scene of the second explosion, near the iso­lated Netzarim settlement out­side Gaza City, saw only the smoking remains of an Israeli army jeep and two Israeli cars. 
The militants said the attacks were revenge for last week's explosion in a Gaza apartment in which six people were killed, including a prominent militant. Hamas blamed the explosion on Israel and the PLO, although Palestinian police said the militants blew them­selves up accidentally. 


Polls: Fujimori to win again 
By MONTE HAYES 
Associated Press 

LIMA, Peru 
President Alberto Fujimori, credited with crushing both in­flation and a Maoist rebellion, won a second five-year term Sunday in Peru's first peaceful election since 1980, unofficial exit polls said. 
Fujimori denied accusations by rival candidates, including former U.N. Secretary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar, that he was involved in a vote fraud scheme uncovered days before the election. 
Exit polls by Apoyo, Peru's largest polling firm, gave Fuji­mori an overwhelming victory with 60 percent of the vote, fol­lowed by 26 percent for Perez de Cuellar. The margin would be enough to avoid a runoff. 
Fujimori said he was waiting for official results, expected by midnight Sunday. Election board officials said the final tally would not be available for five days. 
But Fujimori said he was en­couraged by preliminary fig­ures and wanted to thank the Peruvian people, "who not only have supported me in this elec-
Without youCampus Mlhistrydoesn't have aprayer! 
Students, Faculty and Staff are invited and encouraged to compose a personal prayer for a new Notre Dame campus prayer book. 
Please submit your prayer(s) with a title and with your name and address and send in by May 1, 1995 to: 
the Office of Campus Minist:r:y. C/0 Prayer Book or E-Mail Address: CM. campmin.l@nd. edu 

tion but during my five years in office." 
Apoyo has been quite accu­rate at projecting the outcome of previous elections. It said its projection was based on inter­views at every voting district nationwide, and its margin of error was 3 percentage points. 
CPl. another respected polling firm, said Fujimori won 62 per­cent of the votes while Perez de Cuellar received 20 percent. CPI's polls also covered every voting district. 
All of Peru's elections since 1980 had been marred by vio­lence from the Shining Path, the Maoist guerillas who have been all but defeated since the capture in 1992 of their leader, Abimael Guzman. 
On Sunday, soldiers guarded voting stations with rifles but their numbers were smaller than in past years, and they did not appear to be needed. 
In the remote Andean village of Chuschi, where rebels launched their rebellion in May 1980 by burning ballot boxes, the change was apparent. 


THIS YEAR A LOT OF COLLEGE SENIORS WILL BE GRADUATING INTO DEBT. 
Under the Army's Loan Repayment program, you could get out from under with a three-year enlistment. 

Eachyearyou serve on active duty reduces your indebtedness by one­third or$1,500, which­ever amount is greater, 
The offer applies to Perkins Loans, Stafford Loans, and certain otherfederally insured loans, which are not in default. 
And debt relief is just one of the many benefits you'll earn from the Army. Ask your Army Recruiter. 
(219) 234..4·187 
ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE: 
HELP WORLD HUNGER COALITION WITH 
EASTER FOOD BASKETS! 
HEY MURPH! 
Happy 211'­

the Porcelain Co 
awaifg you! 

Lllr1e, Bridge#, Jen, Nilt, CtJrb, CtJI/een & Erin 
MONDAY, APRIL 10 AT STEPAN CENTER 
2:00-4:00 PM ASSEMBLE 4:00-7:00 PM DISTRIBUTE 
-'------'--'--'--''--''--'-" . . . .. 







CAMPUSES 
Monday, April l 0, 1995 
Schools work to comply with Title IX 
Miami, Brown face tough challenges 
By JAMIE HEISLER News Writer 
The subject of equality be­tween men's and women's ath­letie programs has been a hot topic recently, thanks in part to the lawsuit brought against Brown University in 1991 claiming that Brown violates Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972. 
Title IX, a federal law which prohibits gender-based dis­crimination in any program of­fered by an institute of higher education whieh receives fed­e.ral funding, has caused not only public universities but also private ones to reconsider their policies for women's athletics. 
Brown University's athletic program came under scrutiny in 1991 when, due to a lack of sufficient funds, it cut 4 varsity teams-men's golf, men's wa­ter polo, women's volleyball, and women's gymnastics. Subsequently, members of the women's volleyball and gym­nastics teams filed a class-ac­tion lawsuit against Brown, claiming that Brown was does not provide enough opportuni­tins for women to participate in athletics. 
In Deeember 1992, Judge Pettine ordered the teams to be temporarily reinstated to var­sity status and ruled that Brown was most likely in viola­tion of Title IX. 
·The ease eontinued until March of this year when the judge ruled that Brown did not satisfy the "three prongs" of thn Department of Education Office of Civil Rights test, de­signed to test for compliance with Title IX. 
The first part of the test re-
Women's sports 'ahead of curve' at Washington 
By KATHY HAUSMANN Assistant Campuses Editor 
The University of Washington appears to take great pride in their female athletes, offering twelve competitive female sports, while offering only eleven sports for men. UW is under the same regulations, Title IX of the Education Amendments, as all other uni­versities receiving federal aid, but UW also has additional state-mandated goals they have to m1wt. 
Commenting that they're "ahnad of the c·urve," Liz McFarland, administrative as­sistant to the athletic director for the University of Washing­ton, explained that the state of Washington required that schools have at least 39 per­cent of thn total number of stu­dent athletes be women by 1994. The University of Washington already had 44 percent participation of women in athletics in 1993. 
UW's primary focus now is to improve facilities for all women's teams. 
Ed lmbus contributed to this article. 
quires the number of women involved in the intercollegiate program to be "substantially proportionate" to the percent­age of women in the student body. 
The second part of the test requires that a school show consistent expansion of it's women's athletic programs. 
To be in compliance with the third part of the test a school must "fully and effectively ac­commodate the interests and abilities of the underrepre­sented gender." 
The judge maintained that Brown was not in compliance with these three mandates and originally gave Brown 120 days to restructure its athletic pro­gram. The ruling has since been delayed while Brown ap­peals the decision to the First Circuit Court of Appeals. 



'Jt is 
ironic that 

Brown would be involved in a lawsuit at all. Our programs equitably accommodate the interests and abili­ties of our students.' 
Mark Nickel 

Mark Nickel, director of Brown's News Bureau, claims, "It is ironic that Brown would be involved in a lawsuit at all. Our programs equitably ac­commodate the interests and abilities of our students. We asked the College Board to take the information of all students who wanted their information sent to Brown. For women the athletic interests were between 37-43 percent. The athletic in­terests are not 50-50." 
Currently 38 percent of Brown's athletes are women and 62 percent are men. 
This decision is likely to shape the application of Title 
Cornell settles Title IX lawsuit, reinstates sports 
By KATHY HAUSMANN 
Assistant Campuses Editor 
Cornell University has agreed to settle a lawsuit brought by nine female athletes by rein­staling the women's varsity gymnastics and fencing teams, which were dropped during the 1993 season as part of a com­prehensive cost-saving plan called Vision 2000. 
Under the terms of the agree­ment, Cornell will reinstate both women's teams to their original status as varsity sports as soon as feasible. This agree­ment has been accepted by the plaintiffs and it will be submit­ted to the federal district court for review and final approval. 
Laing Kennedy, director of athletics and physical educa­tion, commented "when the decisions were made in 1991 to eliminate certain teams, such as men's and women's fencing, men's and women's gymnas­tics, and freshman football, those decisions were based on criteria and data available at that time, including considera-
IX to private universities like Brown. These schools must now carefully examine their athletic programs, even if there have not been complaints, to determine if they are in breech ofTitle IX. 
The Brown lawsuit also has had significant effect on private schools in that if such an ar­guably gender-equal program such as Brown's is in violation, then many other schools' ath­letic programs are also in viola­tion. "It will be unfortunate for schools that have made a good face, demonstrated effort to meet the needs and interests of students," says Nickel. 
The University of Miami is one university which is now in the middle of self-evaluating their program which will then be analyzed at the end of the month by a consultant. Senior Associate Athletic Director Larry Wall says, "We will cor­rect anything necessary to en­sure compliance." 
If it is determined that a school is not in compliance with Title IX, the school will then have to carefully consider the restructuring of their ath­letic program. For schools such as Brown which are oper­ating on a limited budget, this will mean a serious change. 
"If it comes to that (restruc­turing). we would more than likely have to consider caps on the size of men's teams or pos­sibly cut the number of men's teams," says Nickel. 
No school is exempt from Ti­tle IX due to the clause that states it is applicable to any "institute of higher education which receives federal fund­ing." Every school regardless of status receives federal fund­ing to some degree even if in the form of research grants or student loans. 
A possible benefit, however, to come from this debate will be a national focus on the need to improve the status of 
tion of gender equity issues." 

"However, subsequent to those decisions, changes have occurred throughout the nation in judicial interpretations of Title IX," Kennedy added. 
"In light of these changes, we now think that it is in the best interests of our students and athletic program to reinstate the two varsity women's teams in fencing and gymnastics, rather than devote the univer­sity's limited resources to the time, trouble, and considerable expense of litigation." 
lie also added that the men's teams eliminated under Vision 2000 will not be reinstated, be­cause adding them would nega­tively contribute to gender equality as defined by current court interpretations of Title IX. 
"We believe that the decisions made in the Vision 2000 process, ... were appropriate." Kennedy additionally noted that Cornell admits no liability for the violation of Title IX during the settlement. "Gender equity was in 1991, and is now, one of the most important issues con­sidered." 
l 
The Observer/T.J. Harris 

Notre Dame women's basketball receives the financial sup~ort neces­sary for competition at a level equivalent to that of the mens program. 


Notre Dame supportive of women's athletics 
By MARCY DINIUS Camp~Ues Editor 
In a Siegfried Hall Forum dis· cussion addressing support for women's athletics at Notre Dame in the wake of the recent Title IX violation ruling against Brown University, Head Women's Basketbtdl Coach Mutfet McGraw said that the administration at Notre Dameis equally as supportive of women's athletics as it is of men's varsity sports programs. 
McGraw said that the univer­sity has had a women's basket­ball program since the school became coed in the 1970's and that the program has just en­tered: the· Division I competition level in recent years. 
The university allots funding for the women's basketball program, as well as for women's volleyball and other varsity sports considered "pri­ority" programs, that allows the teams to travel and com­pete at a level equivalent to the men's programs. 
C11rrently, the university has marl's and women's varsity programs in basketball. fenc· ing, golf, lacrosse, soccer. swimming, tennis, track and cross-country, and volleyball, with baseball and softball as counterpart programs for men and women. The only sports without a female equivalent are football and hockey. 
In conjunction with Title IX. the university is not required to provide any athletic programs for students. Instead, the law requires that an equal opportu­nity is provided by the univer­sity to both genders for any program that it offers. 
If the university cannot demonstrate a statistical hal· artce between men's and women's athletic programs, it must be able to demonstrate a history of expanding interest in the athletic programs offered for the minority sex or show that the abilities and interests of that sex in athletics are being accommodated, 
The issue at Brown of fulfill­ing the proportionality re­quirement of the Department of Education's Office for Civil Rights has caused many sup­porters of men's athletic pro­grams to contest Title IX. Pro· portionality requires the per­centage of men and women on varsity sports teams to reflect the ratio of men to women that composes the student body. 
In such a case as at Notre Dame, where the number of male students is greater than women, the law allows a greater number of men's ath­letic programs as long as it re­flects the distribution of stu­dents of the school and offers equal athletic opportunities for both sexes that correspond with the students' interests. 
In commenting on the effi­cacy of the Brown ruling and Title IX from her perspective as a female coach in women's athletics, McGraw said, "Title IX can do whatever they want to do in court, but until we get the media and fan support, we can't do anything." 
McGraw noted the lack of fan and media support for basket­ball and other women's sports at Notre Dame and in the rest of college athletics. She attrib­uted the difference between enthusiasm for men's and women's athletics as partly due to the "old boy network" that exists within men's sports pro­grams and the media that women have yet to establish. 
McGraw also said that she and other women's coaches are working together to make an official statement of their support for Title IX, which re· cently has received much criti­cism from advocates for foot­bali and other men's sports and which Congress will begin hearings on sometime next month. 
"I don't think that it will ever be entirely equal," McGraw said. "Men are bigger revenue producers.'' 






VIEWPOINT 

The few, the proud, the baseball lovers 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucas Managing Editor Business Manager Suzanne Fry Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ....................... Ryan Malayter Sports Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ..................... Krista A. Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor.................................. Rob Finch Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Conuoller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the auchors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
• WiNTER OF MY DISCONTENT 
I feel morally compelled to make a personal confession in this week's col­umn. It is an extremely difficult and unpopular thing to admit these days, but I am a baseball fan. There, it's out in the open. I saw my first Major League game at old Memorial Stadium in Baltimore when I was three years old and I"bought Cubs tickets not more than half an hour ago, so I guess it's fair to say that following baseball has been a life-long pursuit. 
Chris Kratovil 


· I've been to games in a half dozen or so different Big League stadiums and Field of Dreams is still the only movie I've ever cried in, so I hope it's clear that my enthusiasm for baseball is not directed at any one team or player, but at the game as a whole. 
So it is as a lover of baseball, rather than as one of its increasingly common detractors, that I am forced to admit that what was once indisputably our national game is perhaps terminally ill. Before moving on to examine how base­ball came to be in such a pitifully sad state of affairs, I'd like to offer a few words in the game's defense. There is an inherent beauty found in baseball that has been expounded upon by writ­ers far more eloquent than me-W_ P. Kinsella, George Will, Frank DeFord-so I won't try to duplicate their feat. But even without invoking the elevated prose used by the game's best chroni­clers, it is clear to see that baseball is permeated by subtle cycles and rhythms that no clock-dominated sport can offer. Quintessentially American, baseball is sfmultaneously a team sport and a high­ly individualistic one; you have eight teammates, but when you come to the 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

WITH H&R ARRIVAL., 
MYGOO... 
!A/HAT

U/8 NOlA/HAVt 21 
IAIHATA 
OOYOU

r¥-OU!<. JA 8ei?S NI6HT­
M&AN,
ocaJP/tP.' MAR&1 
5/f?."Z
I \ 
plate it's just you against the pitcher. 
There is an almost Zen-like quality to be found in baseball; the goal is to hit a round ball with a rounded stick. It is a multi-layered game, with its basic rules being elegantly simple but simultane­ously allowing for a much more in-depth examination and understanding. Strategy is deeply ingrained in baseball, but unlike football with its 500 page play books and fifteen man coaching staffs, it is not dominated by planning and machinations. Physical strength and conditioning play a role, but it is also not necessary to be of abnormal size or build to excel at this game; I have trou­ble envisioning say, Joey Cora, playing in either the NFL or the NBA. 
Finally, baseball is, or was, as deeply ingrained in our national consciousness as soccer is in that of Europe. Almost every decent sports movie has been cen­tered on baseball, from Pride of the Yankees to The Natural to Major League. Baseball card collecting has been the official hobby of pre-pubescent males for generations. The great shrines of baseball-Wrigley Field, Fen­
way Park, Yankee Stadium-are treated as national treasures and provoke an almost religious awe that is not dupli­cated in any stadium or arena inhabited by the NFL, NBA or NHL (well maybe the Boston Garden, but they're tearing that down. eh?). 
I could go on expounding upon the glories of baseball ad nauseum, but that wouldn't serve my point. The sad truth is that despite its virtues, baseball is a game in profound trouble, at least in its 
professional incarnation. The unfortu­nate reality is that Major League Baseball is in a financially untenable position and that it is progressively los­ing fans to its flashier, more television­friendly rivals. 
The recent debacle of the strike-that­solved-nothing has just accelerated baseball's process of decline. By endur­ing a 200+ day strike, canceling the World Series for the first time since 1904 and then failing to resolve any of the issues that brought about the labor unrest in the first place, baseball man­aged to marginalize itself; I did not sense a lot of genuine happiness when the end of the strike was announced, just a wave of popular apathy and dis­gust. Now instead of just being slowly rotted by the forces of greed, baseball has given people an excuse to simulta­neously ignore and resent it. 

Tragically, the ambiguous end to the longest strike in the history of profes­sional sports is, like everything else about the players' walk out, tragic. Perhaps a conclusive end to the dispute, favoring one side or the other, would have given baseball a new foundation on which to build. As it is, the agony will just continue. In fact, another work stoppage, perhaps as early as this August, is said to be a very real possibil­ity. 
But I think it is important to note that the recent strike is just the most blatant manifestation of the crisis in baseball. It is a new day for baseball. A day in which career .220 journeyman players command million dollar salaries and 
'Baseball's decline 
through greed and mis­management is already man­ifesting itself in visible ways. There are now more children playing youth soccer than Little League baseball. ' 
super stars sign six year guaranteed deals and then suddenly decide to stop hustling. Free agency has made the players into mere mercenaries as they follow the big bucks from team to team and demonstrate little or no loyalty to anything but themselves. Scandal-rid­den, whining prima donnas have grad­ually taken the place of perennial good guys like Nolan Ryan and Ryne Sandburg in the pantheon of baseball superstars. 
DOWNLOADING: 
"SORORITY HOT TUB TWINS" in trade for 
"INGRID DOES THE INTERNET" .... 

But it would be wrong to place the entire burden of blame on the players, since the teams and their owners are guilty too. Every club seems to think that it has a God-given right to a new stadium paid for, or course, by the tax­payers of their city. Threats to move to greener pastures are almost constant from several small market teams, pro­voking fan insecurity and anger. The owners are forcing expansion to contin­ue, even though the talent pool is already so depleted that they have trou­ble putting a quality product on the field. Just a few years ago it was cheap­er to attend a baseball game than to go to a movie. Today it is easy for a family of four to spend over a hundred dollars (between tickets, parking, concessions, etc.) to take in a single regular-season game (one of 162!). 
Baseball's decline through greed and mismanagement is already manifesting itself in visible ways. There are now more children playing youth soccer than Little League baseball. The television rating for baseball, and the money TV brings with it, have evaporated. A recent survey revealed that there was not one active baseball player among the 10 most marketable sports personalities in this country. And even within our own experience here at ND, just look at the ratio of people playing catch with a baseball out on the quad, to those playing lacrosse or soccer. 
It is my sincere hope that baseball can save itself. But I am not a financial expert, a marketing specialist or a labor mediator and so I don't have the answers as to how this renaissance could come about. If Major League Baseball does continue its self-induced slide, then a vital piece of our national heritage and culture will have been lost. Oh well, at least the game will go on in Japan... 
Kratovil's column appears every other Monday. He is a sophomore government major and can be reached via e-mail at: Christopher.D.Kratovil.l@nd. edu 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Adog teaches a boy fideli­ty, perseverance and to turn around three times before lying down." 
-Robert Benchley 





ACCENT 
Monday, April I 0, 1995 page 9 
• AT THE MOVIES WITH fAT MAN AND DADDY 
'Tommy Boy' needs to grow up 
Tommy Boy no stars out of four 

M
entally challenged professional fat man Chris Farley, who has just recently graduated from college, receives a job working for his father's brake pad company. When his dad passes away of a heart attack at his wedding. Farley must pull himself together in order to salle his inherited company from ruin. He is not helped by his father's new bride. She tries to curb his attempts to salle the plant. 
Daddy: It would be an under­
statement for Daddy to say that 
"Tommy Boy" is merely just another 
film in a chain of horrible comedies 
produced by Lorne Michaels. It would 
be much closer to the actual truth if 
Daddy said that "Tommy Boy" was the 
worst movie he has seen this year, if 
not the worst picture he has seen in his 
life. Sorely lacking in the plot de­
partment, this movie was a test of will, -even to sit through. "Tommy Boy" lacks both the elements of humor and suspense. You might contend that comedies aren't meant to be at all mysterious, but anyone could anticipate this narrative's outcome. Daddy could not wait for these hellish one and a half hours to be over. 
In order to allow our devout following 
to experience what the Patman and I 
were forced to deal with for your edifi­
cation. allow me to quickly give you the 
complete flow of events in "Tommy Boy." Patman (not my colleague, the character portrayed by Chris Farley) runs into a glass door. Patman gets hit by a co.nventional door. Patman gets hit in the head with a steel beam (which might have been funnier if Farley's stunt double had been Josh Ozersky, the man we all love to hate). Patman eats something in a disgusting manner. Patman gets hit in the groin with what­ever stage device is present (as if this gag never gets any older). Patman proves to be inept at all facets of life. Patman eats some more. Fatman runs into a wall. Fatman wrecks something. Patman eats again. (Anybody sensing an insulting, recurring motif?) Patman saves the day in the end. There, that's it. Save yourself the money and the in­sult. Refuse to see "Tommy Boy." Do it for yourself. More importantly, do it for the sake of human intelligence. 
I used to like Chris Farley. I once found his bumbling nature and inher­ent obesity amusing. However, such things that prove to be funny in the small doses of Saturday Night Live skits lose their appeal when you are subject­ed to the incessant pattern of physical humor present in this travesty of cine-. rna. Speaking of SNL, I'd like to take this opportunity to appeal to Lorne Michaels and ask him to stop himself before he becomes the Michael Eisner of comedic movies. Everyone knows that Eisner (the CEO of Walt Disney and the. whore of the animation world) glee­fully fills his pockets by prostituting basic human emotions in the form of immature drivel like "The Lion King." (If you actually like Disney animation, then you are missing my point and I really don't care what you think any­way.) Michaels is demonstrating a commitment to producing sub-par movies as well; but the mechanism he uses is the exploitation of the over-mar­keted, physical humor of the SNL cast. Stop yourself, Lore, before you join the nefarious movie ranks of Satan himself. 
Patman: Chris Farley: the physique of Hercules and the spirit of the iibermen­sch embodied in one, numinous man. 
What other star could captivate the Patman's prodigious attention and his appetite for entertainment as well as this hulking "Saturday Night Live" vet­eran? Like a spastic on crack, Farley stumbles across the television screen every weekend running into everything and everyone that comes across his wide path. His girth, stunning and bold; his chin, manifold and engulfing. He is representative of a portly beauty that only the Fatman and John Candy (may 
. he rest in peace) could love. Yet even fat jokes grow old after a while (as you've noticed if you have bean reading these reviews regularly). His first star­ring role in a feature film is one of the most sickening things that I have had to witness in recent days. Not since Geraldo found nothing more than a beer bottle in AI Capone's vault do I remember being this disappointed. "Tommy Boy" sucks. It's that simple. The problems with this movie are too horrifying to even attempt to catego-
Mary Pinard: Words from the heart 
By BETH REGAN 
Managing Ediwr 
AJ
though poet laureate Maya Angelou has can­celled her performance at Saint Mary's College mee again, students will still have an opportu­
nity to experience a poetry reading. Mary Pinard, a poet and an alumna of the college, will be sharing her work with students tonight. 
.As well as a poet, Pinard is currenlly the director of the undergraduate writing program at Babson College in Wellsley, Mass. She teaches composition and uppHr level writing courses. 
Pinard has been writing poetry since she attended a convent high school in Seatlle, Wash. Her poetry reflects the atmosphere in which she grew up. "I was always more attracted to poetry because people in my family didn't tell stories, they kept secrets. Poetry became a way for me to figure out the puzzles and capture the stories." 
'We live in a culture that doesn't 
value poetry and you have to have the passion and spark inside you to keep yourself going." 
Mary Pinard 
Other art forms stimulate and influence Pinard's work. "If I'm stuck I usually go to a museum," she said. "~.cross fertilization (of the arts) will get me unstuck. 
She is also interested in reading journals by artists. "This is healthful and stimulating because it is important to understand how the artist conceptualizes the ideas." 
Pinard is planning to finish a second collection of her work this summer. "For people who think of themselves as writers, it is important for you to keep at it," she said. "It's not going to come to you. We livn in a culture that doesn't value poetry and you have to have the passion and spark inside you to keep yourself going." 
Pinard fell into her current position at Babson College by sticking closely to her dreams and never giving in to nxternal pressures."The upshot for me is that beeausn I did wliat I felt strongly in, in the end, I am in poetry, full time." 
Although beginning Saint Mary's with the intention of a degree in biology, Pinard graduated with degrees in both English Writing and Theater. "I had planned to become a doctor like my dad," Pinard rize. The obnoxious little character played by David Spade annoys you with his pedestrian one liners. The small role played by that awful actor and amateur video tape artist with an affin­ity for children, Rob Lowe, was suitable for his talents. Look what Rob has to offer: he's sexy, he's suave, and he's after my little sister. 
"Tommy Boy" did not even attempt to have a plot. The story couldn't escape the gravitational pull of Chris Farley's body: too much mass. too much sweat. Some of the petty gags in the film might have worked on "Saturday Night Live," but if you've seen any of the show's recent pathetic episodes, that is not saying all that much. Even the sheer beauty of Chris Farley's waistline was not enough to disguise the inherent lack of plot in this movie. 
"Tommy Boy" is just one of those films that you should avoid. Daddy and I left early. We walked up the aisle and looked at all of the poor souls that had also wasted their money, and more importantly. their time, to be injected with a monstrous dose of spastic fat­ness and unfunny snide comments. They were pale and they were angry, but they were still sitting there. Why couldn't they leave? What kept them seated there in spite of the fact that their every nerve screamed at them to sprint for the exit? It was horror-hor­ror induced by idiocy. Save yourself from both. 
Fat Man and Daddy are John Zack and Scott Bozik. Their movie relliews appear ellery Monday. 
said. "I was too scared to do the thing I really loved most. I was afraid that if I majored in things that I enjoyed I would not get a job." 
While at Saint Mary's, Pinard worked closely with Associate Professor of English, Ann Loux. "I resisted going into things that I loved the most," Pinard said. "Ann was very influential. She gave me the opportu­nity to try out teaching." 
Upon graduation. Pinard attended a Master's pro­gram at the University of Chicago.It was in 1981 that Pinard began her teaching career. She accepted a three year terminal contract as an instructor of English at Wright State University in Yellowsprings. Ohio."This was real college teaching," Pinard said. "It gave me lots of experience and really added to my own development as a teacher." 
At the end of her contract, Pinard moved to Boston and began teaching part time at a number of places. "Because I didn't have doctorate I couldn't get a full-time academic job. I knew that I wanted to keep writing poetry and I was afraid that if I entered a doctoral program I would ignore my creative writing and focus solely on non-fiction writing." 
So Pinard found an alternative. She enrolled in a non-traditional MFA program in poetry at Vermont College. An MFA is considered a terminal degree at many institutions and is equivalent to a doctorate in creative arts. 
The MFA program at Vermont College is a low residency program. It involves tneeting on campus only twice a year for twelve days each time. but cor­responding by mail with another poet in the program more frequently. This enabled Pinard to continue teaching part-time at Babson College while working toward her degree. 
Pinard received her MFA in 1992 and continued to work at Babson. Her immediate supervisor left in the winter of 1994 and at that time Pinard took over as director of the program. 
"Poetry is a life long pursuit. It certainly has proven to me that I wouldn't have the job I have now without my poetry. I don't think that I would under­stand myself and the world around me like I do now." 
Who: Mary Pinard 
What: Poetry reading 
Where: Haggar Parlor, Saint Mary's 
College 
When: 7:30 p.m. 
How Much: free 
Orphan
(for Pearllona) 
You tell me you've hated blue houses since you were a girl, when you stood over a relative who lay in the parlor, 
everything bleeding blue in the heat. even the dahlias wilted. Blue and hot for you, death became a place where you couldn't breathe. 
So when the child you were looked in the white cold of glacial rivers for her father's face, or maybe 
it was her mother's hair that blew black with the tree limbs, you knew, didn't you, they were truly gone? 
And in every home, you would be a guest, setting someone else's table, always the distant you, lifting silver, the china gently from a shelf-
how could you know the everyday? Any bed is welcome when you're tired, cool sheets, the darkness where your feet go like fingers 
in a glove, a satin binding, or Is it a hand at your chin? Details-a blue house, a dahlia-are clues, but too many are cut 
clean from their roots, snarls in a dream, the heels clicking away, fox stole, how the wood of a closet floor makes you cry, a sweetness 
on the tongue. Or how you say Boyce when I ask your maiden name, how you spell it, as ifit's all you have on authority. 
You are your mother and father, you are dead to your own childhood. Just months before I'd marry your son. Jmet you, and we both seemed 
hundreds of years old, all the searching, the parenting. We talked as ifwe'd been the first trees, knew it all, roots 
tangling, our loud voices smartass as blueJays at dawn. And yet we knew we were separate. broken limbs, 
I say broken as a matter of course. I think you hate blue because a vein 
rippling the top of a hand is that, the mother's hand, one moment touching your hair, and the next 
a glove left careless on a bed. 

-Mary Pinard 
page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, April10, 1995 
•NBA
Bookstore 
continued from page 16 


No buzzer beater for Jordan this time 
One such squad is Dick Dover Byrosenthal IV, a team of ex-wrestlers who saw their sport eliminated after their freshman season as a conces­sion to the NCAA's Title IX gender-equity clause. 
"Four years ago we were pretty bitter, but not so much ahy more," stated captain Mike Fox. 
They even tried to take a more humorous view this year, asking the athletic department if they could wear their old wrestling singlets for the tour­nament. 
Unfortunately, they found that the elimination of wrestling had been a pretty thorough exercise, as the sin­glets were shipped to a charity in Bangladesh a year ago. 
Like the Tightie-Whities, Dick Dover Byrosenthal has met with little success, although their one victory proved to be a memorable experience: knocking off a team with Jerome Bettis their fresman year. 
. "He was a really good guy, and it's nice to say that you played a basketball game against him," said Fox. 
This year's edition will take the court Wednesday at 4:45 on Stepan 4 in an effort to achieve one more victory in their last go-around. 

By CHUCK MELVIN 
Assocaiated Press 
CLEVELAND 

The Cleveland Cavaliers may have found their Jordan-stop­per. 
Bobby Phills hounded Michael Jordan into 9-for-26 shooting Sunday, including an errant 25­footer at the buzzer, as the Cavs held off the Chicago Bulls 79-78. 
The Cavs narrowly survived a Jordan-led charge that erased most of a 10-point lead in the final three minutes. Jordan fin­ished with 21 points and Scottie Pippen 19 for the Bulls, whose six-game winning streak ended. 
Mark Price had 20 and Phills and John Williams 19 each for the Cavs, who ended a four­game losing streak. 
Jordan, with 12 points in the first half, went cold in the sec­ond, missing his first seven shots and going scoreless until he sank the second of two foul shots with 3:24 left in the game. But when Williams an­swered with an 18-footer at the other end, Cleveland led 77-67 and seemed headed for a com­fortable victory. 
Against Jordan, though, the Cavs have learned they can take nothing for granted. He sank a 3-pointer with 2:09 left, closing it to 77-72, and after Tyrone Hill made a baby hook for Cleveland, Steve Kerr and Jordan sank consecutive 3­pointers to make it a one-point game with 9.8 seconds to play. Jordan, who went sprawling backwards on his 3, com­plained that Price had fouled him -"Where's the foul, man?" he said -but didn't get the call. 
The Cavs threw the ball away on the ensuing inbounds play, giving Chicago time for the long 3-point attempt that Jordan missed at the buzzer. 
It wa.s a dramatically differ­ent finish from the two buzzer­beating jumpers Jordan made against the Cavs to eliminate them from two playoff series at the old Richfield Coliseum. This was his first game at new Gund Arena. 
In two games against Phills, Jordan is 18-for-53, 34 percent. 

Pacers 97, Hornets 68 
INDIANAPOLIS 
The Indiana Pacers took a major step toward their first NBA divisional title Sunday beating Charlotte 97-68 as their bench totally outplayed the Hornets' reserves. 
Indiana's reserves outscored Charlotte's 25-2 in the first three quarters, helping the Pacers build a 69-52 advantage and Indiana cruised home to take a three-game lead over the Hornets for the Central division lead. 
It was the fewest points allowed by Indiana since it joined the NBA in 1976, falling below the 71 the Pacers yielded to Boston last season. 
Rik Smits, who led an Indiana offense that had six players in double figures with 18, had 11 in the spurt that put the Pacers ahead 85-52 with six minutes to play. 
Larry Johnson topped all scorers with 24 points, con­necting on 5-of-8 shots from beyond the 3-point line. Alonzo Mourning had 19 for the Hornets. 
The win combined with Chicago's loss in Cleveland means the Pacers clinched home court advantage in the opening round of the playoffs for the first time in franchise history that Indiana will open an NBA playoff series at home. 
Indiana got 39 points overall from its bench with Byron Scott scoring 11 and Sam Mitchell 
10. Charlotte got 14 from its bench, but nine of them came in the final three minutes after the Pacers had opened an 88­56 advantage. 
Suns 104, Trail Blazers 94 
PORTLAND, Ore. Charles Barkley had a late breakfast with the media, then scored 24 points, 11 in the deci­sive third quarter, as the Phoenix Suns held on for a 104­94 victory over Portland Sunday. 
The Suns finished the season 5-0 against the Trail Blazers, their first series sweep of Portland since 1980. 
The victory moved Phoenix within a half-game of first­place Seattle in the Pacific Division. The Suns play the Sonics Tuesday night in Tacoma. 
Barkley was 5-for-5 from the field in the third quarter, when the Suns opened an 18-point lead. 
Phoenix led by as many as 20 before a late 10-0 run by Portland made it 95-85 with 
2:57 to play. But the Blazers never got closer than eight the rest of the way. 
Clifford Robinson scored 26 for Portland, 18 in the frrst half. He was 3-for-10 in the second half. Jerome Kersey scored 15 of his 17 in the fourth quarter to become the fourth Trail Blazer to score more than 10,000 points in his career, 
The Blazers' Rod Strickland missed 10 of his first 11 shots and wound up 3-for-17 for the game. 
A.C. Green scored 21, and Waymon Tisdale 15 for the Suns. 

The ObseiVer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Starting at $12/hrl The Princeton is  ALASKA SUMMER JOBS -Very  Need furniture for next year? 4  For Sale:  LOSE WEIGHT FOR SUMMER!  
looking for people to teach our testNOTICES preparation courses. If you've  High Earnings Potential with over 8,000 openings! Students work on  seniors @ Turtle have LOTS of NICE furniture! Call for details:  '84 red cavalier 93,000 miles  After 3 kids, I lost 23 lbs .. went from size 9 to a 3 in 8 weeks, w/o  
earned a high score on the GMAT, ...................................... MCAT, LSATor GRE and would  fishing vessels and in onshore can­neries. No exp. necessary.  277-7597  minty call Mike 277-2631 with best offer  diets/drugs/exercise. All-natural products. easy, guaranteed! Kelly  
ATIENTIONI! like to work 6-10 hrs per week, con- Male/Female. Room/Board &  FOR SALE: OAKHILL CONDO  1-800-209-2150  
ST. EDWARD'S CARNIVAL tact us at: (800)865-7737  Transportation often free. Call  FIRST LEVEL UNIT. TWO BDR, 2  
is APRIL 29thl  Student Employment Services for  BATH, FIREPLACE, ALL APPLI­ '86 FORD TEMPO. 57k, $2,000  Guitarist looking to start a band for  
If you would like to  Directory. (206)545-4155 ex1  ANCES. FINISHED BASE­ OR 8/0. 631-7119.  nex1 year. Searching for serious  
DANCE with TROOP ND POSITION AVAILABLE:  A55841  MENT WITH 2 BDR, FAMILY  musicians that like to play a wide  
Start coming to classes!! Student Advisor Tuesdays, 8:00-9:00 p.m. DUTIES INCLUDE: Counseling, @ 219 Rockne advising and enrolling students;  FOR RENT  ROOM AND BATH. CLUBHOUSE AND POOL. $86,500. CALL DAWN MEYERS/ COLD­ TICKETS  variety of music ranging from Acid Jazz to Blues to Phish. For more info please call Dave at  
?s CALL Melanie x4957 working at the front desk; answer­......................................... ing phones; keeping track of allen- COLLEGE PARK CONDO:  WELL BANKER 271-0266 235-3241  Need 2 grad tix for step-parents Tanja 277-8594  x1643.  
dance sheets, records and con- For lease, 2 bd., 2 ba. furnished  You will take me to see Jabba now  
1111!111111!111!!!1!111!11!1!11111 tracts; organizing materials for daily Senior One-Acts classes, class orientations and  unit, Alarm system. Avail. June 1st. Call: (818)441-1275  OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered at $85,900. First floor location.  PERSONAL  ATIN: BAND MEMBERS  
Tues. April 11, 1995 seminars; becoming very knowl- Finished basement with fulllavato- For anyone who might be  
Washington Hall edgeable about our product.  ••••••••••NOTICE*',.'***********  ry. Two bedrooms and two baths on  000 The Copy Shop 000  contused. Rachel Stehle IS serious  
7:30PM Responsibilities may also include  If you are interested in living at  ground level. Lease back to owner  LaFortune Student Center  about being your  
Admission: $2.00 bookkeeping, proctoring for off-site  Turtle Creek next year, call Chris  through May, 1995. Call  WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE,  vice-president.  
Benefitting the Beeler­classes, and data entry.  at 273-1399 as soon as possible.  (616)946-0700.  & WEEKENDS FOR YOUR  Love,  
Hipp Memorial SKILLS REQUIRED: Excellent oral,  CONVENIENCE!!!  Her Roomie Danielle  
Scholarship telephone and written communica- Beautiful '90 Acura Integra LS  Phone 631-COPY  P.S. GOOD LUCK RACH  
1!111!111111111111!!!!1!1!!!!!!!11! lion skills, good interpersonal and  Rent NOW for Fall Semester -com- Coupe Ssp Champagne-Silver,AC  
organizational skills; typing and  pletely remodeled home in great  power sunrool,spoiler, 55k miles  I STILL NEED YOU!  You are part of the Rebel Alliance  
$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS$$ computer skills. Able to work 15-20  student neighborhood. Available to  $9200, '94 ND Grad in Chicago,  Larry is still looking for a ride to  and a traitor... Take her away!  
Are you going to read those things hours per week.  5 students -5 private bedrooms, 2  must sel~ but hate to part. C~U  Tennessee for Easter Break.  
again? I think not. 2323·2342 We are always looking for dedicat­ full baths, washer and dryer, large  (312) 661-7278  KnoXville is ideal, Nashville is  I've stopped trying long ago to get  
Pandora's Bks ND Ave & Howard ed people to join our fast-paced,  rec room. Your own personal frat  acceptable. If you are going any- you guys to go out.  
exciting and motivated team for  house CALL NOW 277-0636  Laptop Modem: Megahertz PCM- where near those cities this break,  -Frank  
ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAK-afternoon, evening and weekend  CIA, 2400bps data/lax  please call Larry at 634-3597. Will  
FAST, 35 MIN TO N.D. SPECIAL shifts.  2 BDRM House. Wash/Dry  $59.00 Mike: 634-3981  share gas, tolls, expenses.  "She smokes? Does her mother  
"OBSERVER" RATE $50/$60,  Fireplace, Porch $520/mo. + util.  know that!?!?"  
FULL BREAKFAST. THE HOME· For further info or to obtain an appli.  Grad. student pre!. 232-6079  '90 Honda Civic Station Wagon,  
SPUN COUNTRY INN, NAPPA-cation ple;:~se call:  Auto/PS/PB; AIC;AM/FM Cassette;  ADOPTION -A LOVING CHOICE  Hey Killer, I had my chance to put  
NEE, 219-773-2034. Stacy Cody  OAK HILL aprtmnt. FOR RENT  35K;$7600; Call631-5587 (day);  Pediatrician and pediatric nurse  in an ad, the one we talked about:  
ILOST & FOUND I Manager. 219-272-4135.  2 1/2 BDRM. 2 BTH 219/273-6993  234-3927 (evening)  happily married for seven years are hoping to share our love with a child. We love the outdoors, have  "Do you know her. ..she lives in your dorm. Well, she wanted me. She was grabbing my ..."  
86 HONDA PRELUDE Sl  comfortable home and country lake- But I wussed out about using  
Lost: Tear-drop multi-stoned ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOY­ HOMES FOR RENT  red 5spd. Must sell.  side cottage. Will provide secure.  names to protect the innocent and  
bracelet at Bridget's the Thursday MENT! EARN THOUSANDS THIS  NEAR CAMPUS  634-2475  loving home with full time mom.  the guilty.  
- before Spring Break-PLEASE SUMMER IN CANNERIES,  232-2595  Counseling and allowable expens- 
CALL IF FOUNDII!I x3842 ask for PROCESSORS, ETC.  For Sale: Roller Blades  es. Call Kim or Mike at 1-800-469·  S- 
Katie MALE/FEMALE.  2 BDRM AVAIL. NOW $295 MO. 3  Like New: Bravoblades GL  0559  She warned you and you wouldn't  
ROOM/BOARD/TRAVEL OFTEN  BDRM. NEXT FALL, NEAR CAM- Black, Size? 1/2-8  listen. Now look at you.  
PLEASE 0 PLEASE 0 PLEASE PROVIDED! GUIDE. GUARAN­ PUS.272-6306  $100 (Negotiable)  EUROPE $199 o/w  
please return the blue suede coat TEED SUCCESS! (919)929-4398  includes wrist guards  CARIBBEAN/MEXICO 189 r/1  But Morgs. he's a man in uniform.  
"accidentally" taken from the Junior ext A1082  LIVE IN A GOOD NEIGHBOR- Call Marty @ 271-1541  If you can beat these prices start  Give him a chance. He lied for us.  
Class Bash at Union Station on  HOOD FURNISHED HOMES  your own damn airline!  What more can you ask for?!? -T  
Friday, March 31. You don't want it  NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT  4 Sale: Ad-trip TIX: 58-RALEIGH­ AIR-TECH LTD. 212/219-7000  
because it has holes in the pockets AA CRUISE SHIPS HIRING! EARN  SCHOOL YEAR IDEAL FOR 3-8  Durham through Chicago (April14  info@ aerotech.com  Here's something brand new from  
and the lining is all shredded. It's BIG$$$+ FREE WORLD TRAVEL  STUDENTS 2773097  am-return April17) $225 080-will  the Offspring.  
my only real coat! II (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII,  sell either portion of tix 271-177 4  
Call Isabelle x4717 to schedule its ETC.) SUMMER/PERMANENT, NO  Professional gals at Castle Pt. need  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  Hey Dom,  
return. EXPER. NEC. GUIDE. (919)929­ roomies, no undergrads. 271-0801.  LaFortune Student Center  What's up with the exciting new  
4398 ext. C1082.  OFF CAMPUS NXT. YR?  .,J Quick turn around time!!!  street drug?  
WANTED  FOR SALE  FOR SALE-QN. SIZE SET W/FRAME, 3 DRESSERS, SOFA,  ...J Most orders completed within 24 hours  "Does kissing count as hooking  
SUMMER JOBS  COMP. DESK, DORM FRIDGE,  .,J Free pick-up & delivery  up?"  
SENIORS ­Looking for sales ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  WANT A CAR FOR NEXT YEAR?  COFFEE/END TABLES, GAS  to & from departments  
career option? Must be able to PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS  '88 Nissan Sentra, Auto, AIC,  GRILL, MORE CALL CHRIS @  .,J Caii631-COPY  "C'mon. its the 'Backer. ..you just  
motivate self and others. Health ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  ONLY 65K, excellent condition.  273-2070  kiss the lips in front of you."  
minded and money motivated are NEAR LAKE PLACID  NEW paint job, $2000 or 80  I'm driving 2 Iowa 4 Easter. If U  
pluses. Call 273-511 0. 1-800-786-8373  CALL X1343  Mac.Pwrbk.$1k abo 284-5256  need a ride call Ann X2563  5'7" and not too intimidating  

.-------------------------------------------------­
Monday April I 0, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
• THE MASTERS •••THE TRADITION CONTINUES 


Crenshaw overcomes grief, Love to win jacket 
ByRON SIRAK 
Associated Press 
AUGUSTA, Ga. 

As the final putt fell making him Masters champion, Ben Crenshaw curled into a knot of emotion, holding his head and thinking thoughts of Harvey Penick, his trusted teacher who died just a week earlier. 

"I let it all go," Crenshaw said. "I couldn't hold it in any longer." 
Everything that Crenshaw had bottled up inside himself since Penick died last Sunday, a week after giving Crenshaw one last putting lesson, poured out on the 18th green after Crenshaw tapped in the 18-inch putt that gave him a one-stroke 
Happy 22"d to the Boy Wonder! 
(He's the one on the left.) 
Love, 
The Denny's Gang 
victory over Davis Love. 
"It was like someone put their hand on my shoulder and guided me through," Crenshaw said about his final-round 68 on Sunday. "I believe in fate. Fate has decided another champion like it has so many times before." 
Fate and an absolutely bril­liant putting touch that tamed the slick, dangerous greens of Augusta National Golf Club. Not once over the 72 holes did Crenshaw three-putt on the steeply contoured greens groomed to table-top speed for the Masters. 
His 14-under-par 274 was three better than Greg Norman and Jay Haas and five better than David Frost and Ste:ve Elkington. 
As his final putt dropped on the last green, Crenshaw bent over and clasped his head with both hands, overcome with emotion. 
"I had a 15th club in the bag today and that was Harvey ­Harvey Penick," Crenshaw said, the green jacket of the Masters champion looking com­ical over his patterned golf shirt. 

"I don't know how I got through the week, I really don't know," he said. "It was an emotional week. This place charges me up like nothing." 
It was a slam-bang finish after the day started with 12 players within four strokes of Crenshaw and third-round co­leader Brian Henninger. 
And it all turned, as always, on the tricky back nine at Augusta. 
The crunching blow came at No. 16 when, with Love safely in the clubhouse at 13-under, Crenshaw hit a brilliant 6-iron shot that showed great knowl­edge of the course, hitting well right of the hole on the par-3 and curling down the slope to within 3 feet. 
He knocked it in for the birdie that put him at 14-under and rode that exceptional sequence to a 12-footer for birdie at No. 17. 
AllAN CULTURE II MORE THAN EGG ROLLI AND KARATE ICICICI! FIND OUT HOW MUCH MORE! EXPERIENCE ANOTHER CULTURE WITHOUT EYER LEAYING lOUTH BEND! 
TAICE AN AllAN STUDIES COURSE! 
COAJ 411 Fourth COAJ 421 Adva 

AMERICAN STU AMST 411 Eth Notio11s: ...._ ....,_., t\MST 457 Arner Culture & Su 
GOVERNMENT GCNT 241 International Relations GOVT 333 lnt'l humanitarian Issues 
GOVT 334 !R 1n East Asia 
T 460 Gender !mages Mod 
"I played it like a dream," Crenshaw said about No. 17. "It was a killer 9-iron and the prettiest putt I ever hit. I'll never forget 16 and 17 as long as I live." 
He played No. 18 safely and made a bogey. 
"I really don't think there was any stopping Ben," said Love, who qualified for the Masters by winning in New Orleans last week. "He was dri­ven. He was charged and obvi­ously he is one of the greatest putters ever." 
It was the second Masters title for the 43-year-old Texan, who won in 1984 and also has finished second twice and in the top 10 seven other times, cer­tain proof he is one of the game's best putters. 
Crenshaw, who went to Austin, Texas, on Wednesday for Penick's funeral, saw the famed 90-year-old teacher a week before he died. 
"I had one last lesson with Harvey," Crenshaw said earlier in the tournament. "He said, 'Can you please get a putter and show me how you're stroking that ball?' And he said, 'Now, I want you to take two good practice strokes and then trust yourself and don't let that club get past your hands in the stroke." 
No course requires more nerve, touch and confidence with the putter than Augusta National. Crenshaw mastered it brilliantly. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
it··. 

CASTING AND ANGLING ­
Course includes four sessions 
which meets on Tuesdays 
from 6-7:30pm. The dates 
are April 11, 18 and 25. 
Classes are held In the JACC, 
Rolfs Center and campus 
lakes. Equipment is provid­
ed, but participants are 
encouraged to bring their 
own. The fee is $8 and the 
class Is open to all. 
Advanced registration at 
RecSports is necessary. 
Also, equipment will be sold 
at low prices when finished 
and stylish caps will be given 
to participants. 
ND/SMC SAILING CLUB • There will be a meeting every Tuesday night at 7:00pm at the boathouse. It will primarily discuss reac teams for weekend meets. Sweatshirts are now on sale. 

--~--~----~~~~~--------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer • SPORTS Monday, April 10, 1995 
• SAINT MARY'S SOFTBAll.. 


Belles double their pleasure 




HEY! 
THE OBSERVER NEWS DEPT. WANTS YOU! We need a 
NEws CoPY EDITOR 
Interested, Submit a one page statement of intent & a resume to Dave Tyler by Wed, Aprilll Questions? Call Dave@ 4,1200 or 1,5323 

With Gender Issues at Notre Dame. This Is an electronic discussion group open to students, faculty, and staff at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, to talk about anything that has to do with gender on the two campuses. 
You can subscribe for free and It's EASY! Just send the following e-mail message to: 
LISTSERV ~VMA.CC.ND.EDU: SUBSCRIBE NDGENDER your first name & last name 
Brought to you by the Women's Resource Committee of the Graduate Student Union. 
SEE YOU ON THE NET! 
By LORI GADDIS 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's softball team had an outstanding week­end, taking both games of their double headers on Friday and Saturday. The Belles took on Manchester in a rescheduled game on Fridayat home and won by scores of 7-3 and 4-0. Saturday, the Belles traveled to Olivet College and took both games, 12-6 and 8-6. 
In the first game against Manchester College, the Saint Mary's offense was highlighted by junior second baseman Amy Misch, who went 3-3 at the plate, with 2 RBis and 2 stolen tion," Killian said. "She came out fired up and had an excel­lent performance." 

Against Olivet College on Saturday, the Belles were down early and fought back to shut down the Bulldogs in the first game. Olivet jumped out to a 4-0 score in the first inning. But the Belles' tough bats in the later innings of the game helped Saint Mary's to win. Junior shortstop Shannon Heise went 2-3 at the plate, with one sacrifice and 3 RBis. Heise explained the Belles' success over the weekend. 
"The key to the weekend was that we all share the mentality of not wanting to lose," Heise explained. "We maintained onr mental intensity this weekend and really focused on playing as a team." 

Game two against Olivet College found Saint Mary's with 7 stolen bases and an outstand­ing offensive game. Freshman third baseman Andrea Arena went 3-4 at the plate, had 2 stolen bases, and scored 3 runs, the last of which was scored stealing home. The Belles also cut down on the number of errors, committing only one in the second game. 
bases. Junior pitcher Maria Vogel also had an impressive performance, throwing six strikeouts. 
In the second Manchester game, junior pitcher Laura Richter helped her own cause by throwing five strikeouts and picking up the winning RBI in the third inning. Richter is nor­mally at either first base or in right field, but coach Maggie 


JOIN THE WOMEN'S CON­
Killian wanted to try her in a new position. 


CERNS CQ.MMISSION 
"We were excited to get Laura back in the pitching rota-

PICK-UP ~NS IN THE STUDENT d.OVERNMENT OFFICE 

2ND FL~~RTUNE 
rr 
~~~ 

QUEsiiONS?
m ~:m:::~:r:~:~:(t~:~:mm:~:~:
W coNIAcr: 
!ill RENEE,ATxl435 
IAcnoNI[]~ 
:ITUDINT OOVUNME.NT 



¥4h 
,~,,., 
The Observer/Scott Mendenhall Junior rightfielder Ryan Topham celebrates with a teammate after one of his two home runs inSaturday's sweep of Wisconsin-Milwaukee. 

~travel more 
~Carlson TrC!yeJ Netw_()rk 
ARCH 
EE EE EE ENGL 
covr 
GOVf GOVf GOVf MGT PHIL 
STV THEO TiiEO THEO 
. -----­
~ 

Europe!! 

Travelmore/Carlson Travel Network is your local Europe Travel Specialist 
Let us send you to Europe! 
•Airfares  Special STUDENT & FACULTY rates.  
Low airfares to Europe.  
'Rail Passes  Rail Passes issued in our office1  
No service fep!  
Tinwt,\bles, prin•s, tickt'ls ,w,lll,\ble1  
'Car Rentals  Discounted car rentals!  
Available in all European Countries!  
'Experience  Over 20 years experience working with  
Notre Dame & Saint Mary's students  
and faculty travelling to Europe.  

We know Europe-let us plan your trip! 1723 South Bend Ave. -Next to the Notre Dame campus ­(219) 271-4880 



DART 
COURSES APDED 

563 01 114427 -Teaching Concepts/Bldg. Tech ..; 3 cr. hrs.; MichaelLykoudis; 
TH 02:45-04:30 468L 02 114415 -Modem Phontonics Lab.;O cr. hrs.; F 01:00-03:30; EE 468 Coreq 499R 24 114416 -Undergraduate Research; var. cr. hrs.; Gregory Snider 699R 25 114417 -Research & Dissertation; var. cr. hrs.; Gregory Snider 699 39 114426 -Research & Dissertation; var. cr. hrs.; james Robinson 499R 02 114421 -Senior Honors Thesis; var. cr. hrs.; Scott Mainwaring; 
Permission Required 499R 03 114420 -Senior Honors Thesis; var. cr. hrs.; Edward Goerner; Permission Required 499R 04 114419 -Senior Honors Thesis; var. cr. hrs.; Donald Kommers; Permission Required 499R 05 114429 -Senior Honors Thesis; var. cr. hrs; A. james McAdams; Permission Required 350 02 114428 -File Processing Languages; 3 cr. hrs.; Khalil Matta; 
MW 02:20-03:35; Management Majors or Math Seniors only 201 16 114418 -Introduction to Philosophy; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 02:45-04:00 446 01 114414-Theology and Medicine; cr. hrs.; MW 11:15-12:30; 
Permission Required; Crosslist THEO 446-01 565 01 114422 -Liturgical Theology; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 02:45-04:00 601 01 114430 -CJA Seminar; var. cr. hrs.; W 02:45-05:15 610A 01 114423 -Advanced Greek; 3 cr. hrs.; MW 11:15-12:30 
CQURSES CANCELLED 
AFAM  371  01  113045  HIST  371A  01  113043  
AMST  366H  01  113044  HIST  385  01  114156  
ARST  3095  01  113515  HIST  385A  01  114157  
EE  498F  01  112893  HIST  423  01  114166  
ENGL  696  01  114369  HIST  423A  01  114167  
HIST  371  01  113042  LAW  592A  01  110197  

Topham powers Irish wins 
By MEGAN McGRATH 
Sports Writer 
Was it a famous poet, or maybe just a bloated 1970's rock singer, who first said "Two out of three ain't bad?" 
The Notre Dame baseball team went two for three this weekend against MCC rival Wisconsin-Milwaukee, but by dropping the first game of the series the Irish saw their seven­game winning streak come to an end. 
Friday, the Panthers used a pair of home runs to edge the Irish 10-6. Saturday Notre Dame's Ryan Topham hit two of his own as the team came back for a 7-6 and 10-1 double­header sweep. 
"This weekend was just an example of the type of game baseball is," said Irish head coach Paul Mainieri. "Some days it seems like a team is not inspired or the other team is outplaying them, but the next day its the other way around." 
Friday afternoon the it was Notre Dame's turn to look flat. 
Senior Craig DeSensi led-off the first with a single and scored on a wild pitch after ad­vancing on ground outs. But after that, Wisconsin­Milwaukee controlled the 


Looking for a place to stay during: (_. 1tt._Qfil'~un~ft~llend? (_. ~~~~d~/l Weekend? <_. Weddings? (_.Home Football Games? Alumni Renting Out Historic Home For ND Special Events 
•Close 
to Campus (Just 2 miles Away!) 

•Safe 
Neighborhood 

•Competitive 
Rates 

•Fully 
Equiped Kitchen 

•University 
Club access 

•Summit 
Club access 

•5 
private suites w/ individual baths 

•Accomodates 
up to 14 



Available to Show by Appointment Call Helenfor More Information@ 219 287-8163 

AME ARST ARST ARST BIOS CE CHEM COTH COTH 
COTH EE EE 
ENGL ENGL GOVf HESB LAW LAW LAW LAW LAW LAW LAW ME MGT 
soc THEO THEO THEO THEO 561 325S 425S 525S 250 445 247 221 361 
421 468 468L 
559A 586 141 450 506 569 642 679 683 686 695 339 350 
242 290B 290C 243T 243T ALL sect -Add LAW 604 as a prerequisite 01 111531 -Change time to: MWF 11:15-12:05 01 111550 -Change day/time to: MW 12:50.{)2:05; 

CHANGES  
01  110372 -Change time to: MWF 11:15-12:05  
01  112935 -Change meeting days/time to: MW 09:00-12:00  
01  112934 -Change meeting days/time to: MW 09:00-12:00  
01  112936 -Change meeting days/time to: MW 09:00-12:00  
01  112849 -Add junior Bios/Bio-chemistry majors to the restrictions  
01  111020 -Change time to: TH 09:30-10:45  
01  111068 -Remove "BIOS 155 or 201 pre/corequisite"  
01  111097 -Change to: "Permission Required"  
01  111099 -Application deadline extended to April 20th and  
Change to: "Permission Required"  
01  112356 -Change to: "Permission Required"  
01  113418 -Add corequisite: "EE 468L corequisite"  
01  113419 -Change day/time to: W 01:00-03:30;  
add corequisite: "EE 468 corequisite"  
01 01  113584 -Change day/timeto: T07:30-10:00 -P.M. Class 113582 -Change dayI time to: H 02:45.{)5:30  
01  110449 -Change time to: MWF 10:10-11:00  
01  110558 -Change day/time to: THll:D0-12:15  
01  111382 -Change day/time to: MW 01:00.{)2:15  
01  111395 -Remove Permission Required  
01  112284 -Add LAW 505 and 506 as a prerequisite  
01  113046 -Remove Permission Required  
01  112281 -Add LAW 603 as a prerequisite  
01  114103 -Change day/time to: H02:00.{)3:40  

add Math Seniors as a restriction 01/02113081/3083 Add restriction: "Sophomores only" 01 113977 -Change restriction to: "THEO 100, 200 or 201" prerequisite 01 113978 -Change restriction to: "THEO 100, 200 or 201" prerequisite 03 112318 -Change time to: T 02:15.{)3:30 04 112317 -Change time to: T03:45.{)5:00 
game. 

The Panthers' tied the score in the second after Jak Kraus drove Dan Stavisky's first pitch of the inning over the left-field fence. 
It got worse for Stavisky in the third. The Panthers' loaded the bases with three singles, and shortstop Jason Wesseman drilled a grand-slam for a 5-1 lead. 
Notre Dame pulled to within two runs in the fifth on an RBI singltl by George Restovich and two-run hit from Christian Parker. 
But the Panther's scored two runs in the ninth off Tim Kraus to finalize the margin. 
In Saturday's first game, the Panthers' again utilized the long-ball. This time, left-fielder Jeff Stoss hit a two-run homer in the fourth and a solo shot in the sixth off Irish starter Craig Allen. Another run in the fifth gave Wisconsin-Milwaukee a 4­0 lead. 
The pitching of Panther starter Bob Callahan made the lead seem safe. Over the first five innings, Callahan allowed just one hit and struck out three. 
"That kid was just baffiing us for the first five innings," Mainieri said. "He threw a lot of off-speed pitches that kept us off-balance." 
Notre Dame finally got to Callahan in the sixth. Scott Sollmann drew a one-out walk, and Mike Amrhein followed with a single. Callahan had two strikes on Topham when he slammed his first homer of the day to left. 
"Coach pulled us up after the fifth and said we knew we could win this if we wanted do," Topham said. "Scott and Mike did a great job in front of me." 
The Panthers added two more runs in the top of the sev­enth, but the Irish refused to quit. J.J. Brock led-off the bot­tom of the frame with a walk, and Gus Ornstein reached on an error. After a Randall Brooks fly-out, DeSensi and Sollmann followed with dou­bles, tying the score. 
With two outs and Sollmann on second, reliever Lance Tardiff gave Topham an inten­tional pass. Restovich respond­ed with a bloop single to left that scored Sollmann and gave the Irish the win. 
"I really didn't feel much pressure up at the plate," the junior catcher said. "If I didn't come through I knew we would still be playing, so I just tried to be relaxed." 
In the second game. fresh­man pitcher Parker paralyzed the Panthers. In a complete game performance, the right­hander allowed just three hits and one unearned run. 
"I just felt good from the start," Parker said. "Everything was working and I had great defense behind me." 
Parker also had a lot of of­fense to back his effort. Notre Dame hit four single in their three-run first. Topham's sec­ond homer of the day, a tower­ing blast to right, was the cen­ter of a four-run second. 
Topham was 2-5 in the sec­ond game, with three RBI. Sollmann went 3-5 with two RBI, and Amrhein extended his hitting streak to 13 games with a 2-5, 2 RBI day. 
Colley 
continued from page 16 
handled the Irish offense, while the defense had trouble with Harvard's attacker Mike Eckert. The junior caused problems, scoring three points in the period and six in the game. 
The rest of the game be­longed to the Irish. After a slight battle to begin the third quarter, Notre Dame's offense assumed control of the game. Strong drives to the crease by Colley, Kearney, and Sutton put the Irish up for good. Jason Pett and Brian Gilfillan scored on Colley dishes in the final quarter. 
The Irish played the style of game they've played all season. They just played it better. The difference was that the offense effectively capitalized on their scoring opportunities, some­thing they had not done this season. 
The ball-control offense and pressure defense, led by the hard hitting play of the long­sticks, limited the possessions for Harvard. Freshman net­minder Alex Cade contributed yet another solid performance in the crease. especially in the fourth quarter. 

• TRACK 

Irish battle weather conditions at Miami Invite 
By MICHAEL DAY 
SportS Writer 
Not even the threat of a tor­nado could stop the Irish on Saturday. 
Despite horrible conditions and the cancellation of nearly half of the women's events, the Notre Dame track and field team enjoyed another strong outing at the Miami of Ohio Invitational over the weekend. 
"I think the people who got the chance to compete did a great job," said assistant coach Tim Connelly. "It was just un­fortunate that the weather took away a good opportunity for many of our women." 
Junior Jeff Hojnacki picked up right where he left off last weekend, capturing first place in the 800 meter run with a time of 1:49.90. Senior Joe Royer and junior Joe Curran also came up big for the Irish in the event, placing second and third respectively. It was a par­ticularly stellar day for Royer, who earlier won the 1500 meter run in a time of 3:53.76. 
Softball 
continued from page 16 
Perkins singled, Sara Hayes sacrificed her to second, and then Meghan Murray singled Perkins home. Two batters later, Andy Keys' home run capped off the scoring for the Irish. 
In the second game, the Notre Dame victory was only more decisive. Miller hoped that by pitching ace righthander Terri Kobata in the second bill, Notre Dame could shake their doubleheader woes. Kobata, in turn, deliv­ered, giving the Irish a 9-0 win. She struck out 11 in six innings of work to improve to 12-1. 
Offensively, Notre Dame tore the cover off the ball. Nine runs on 15 hits were supported by a pair of doubles and a pair of triples. Sara Hayes and Andy Keys were both 3-4. Elizabeth Perkins pulled out of a batting slump going 2-4 with a pair of RBis. 
"I was really glad to see that," Miller said. "She's been down in a slump. She'd been getting down on herself. I think we found what caused the problem in practice." The Phoenix will testify to that. 
Irish ace reliever Kelly Nichols came on in the seventh, and set the sun on the Phoenix. 
"All three of our pitchers threw well today," Miller said. "We changed things up by throwing Joy in the first game and it seemed to pay off." 
Freshmen Errol Williams and Danny Payton continued their rapid development in just their third outdoor meet of their col­legiate careers. Williams took home first place in the 110 me­ter hurdles with a time of 14.07, and Payton's mark of 
48.05 was good enough for first place in the 400 meter run. 
Despite little experience at the college level, fellow fresh­man Jason Hexing registered the finest performance of his brief career, placing first in the 5000 meter run with a time of 14:51.47. 
''I'm real pleased with the progress they've made so far 
this season," said head coach Joe Piane. "Hopefully they will continue to improve and qualify for the NCAA's at some point this year." 
Senior Lamar Justice, competing in his first outdoor meet of the spring following the basketball season, captured first place in the triple jump with a mark of 15.44. After a two week layoff, sophomore Troy Langevine placed second in the 400 meter hurdles, and senior Greg Moretti added a second place finish in the ham­mer throw with a distance of 49.94. 
The pole vault was once 

CostA ~-irA 
Vacation while learning Spanish 
Thinking about what to do with your summer vacation? Why not spend it in a tropical location. doing somL'Ihing that you can justily to your parents? l.t>am Spanish! 
The Institute for Spanish Language Studies has S different Total Immersion Schools to choose from . Live with a Costa Rican family and study with students from all around the world. With different locations and 

t-;j~==r;:~;;i,j~iCS~~ price packages your satisfaction b 
guaranteed! Call Now !II 

~~~~t-'=soo-765-0025 ~~~, 

ISLS 
ll"r"ftllolmlooil 

1994-95 JOHN M. DUGGAN SERIES 
Gus 

J~~R8e 
ICCQO 

"Unaffected, exhilarating and pure jazz" 
-Baltimore Evening Sun 

SATURDAY, APRIL 22, 8P.M. O'LAUGHUN AUDITORIUM 
TICKETS $8* ALL SEATS RESERVED 
Discounts available for senior citizens, groups, SMC-ND community and students. Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, located in O'Laughlin, 9-5 Mon.-Fri. Discover, Visa. MasterCard at 219/284-4626. 
1'\0RfftU CfnTfR 
fOR lt1t <f1 QT S 

again the Irish's strongest field event of the day. Sophomore David Gerrity won the event with a height of 5.04, while teammate Dan Grenough fin­ished in a three way tie for sec­ond by vaulting to a height of 
4.71 meters. 
On the women's side, sopho­more Allison Howard blew away her competition in the 400 meter run, defeating her closest competitor by nearly two seconds in a time of 55.82. Teammate Erica Peterson placed first in the 400 meter hurdles to extend her string of top performances in the event. 
Similar to the men, the Irish women dominated the 800 meter run despite sloppy con­ditions. Freshman Berit Junker captured second place in a time of 2:09.78, while junior Amy Siegel's mark of 2:13.32 was good enough for fourth. 

"After a disappointing per­formance in the 1500, I was glad to get a chance to turn things around in the 800," said Siegel. 
"Overall, the women did a nice job considering the compe­tition and the conditions they had to run in," said Connelly. "At this point in the season, I'm certainly satisfied with the progress they've made." 

•Specializing in engagement rings &anniversary rings· 
·Award Winning Designs· ·Custom Design and Repairs· 
..~ 
.. JEWELERS INC.
277 1010 

.Cleveland Rd. East of UP Mall & US 31 North Villiage Mall 
great scores••• 


·---------· 
t 
1-800-KAP-TEST Summer/Fall Class Info 
Kaplan helps you focus your GRE studies and build your confidence so you can get a higher score. 
get a higher score 
KAPLAN 
great scores••• 


+7.2 points* ---------, 
Call: 1-800-KAP-TEST 
summer/fall class Info 
get a higher score 
Kaplan helps you focus your LSAT studies and build your confidence so you can get a higher score. 
great scores••• 


Kaplan helps you focus your MCAT studies and build your confidence, so you can get a higher score. 
KAPLAN 

"As documented In the May 1m Kaplan LSAT Performance Sb.Jdy conducted by Price Waterhouse. 
----------.. 
' I 
Call: 1-800-KAP-TEST summer/fall class info 
gat a higher score 
KAPLAN 



Monday, April I 0, 1995 
The Observer • TODAY page 15 MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM MIKE PETERS 
CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 




IN ti-lE cos lv\i( SE~st::, WE "13\G ?\CI\JR..£. PEO?L£ PRobQ bli Nil. Rf>-REL'i \3\::COME 1-\\STOR\F>-~'5. 



r---------------------~ur-----------------------­
~ 
~ 
YOU SOUND
.; 
.!: 
JUST LIKE 
I GUE5S 
~ 
THE. "Q"
OUR. LJI-\INY
! 
CUSTOI"\ERS. 
STI\NDS FOR
0. 
"UALITV'' 
.~ 
... 
.., 
\
! 
:::> 
" 
.."' 
.. 
II 
e 
>­
~~~u-~~~_.~~~ 
48 Money drawers st Roman "fiddler" 52 "Oh, woe!" 53 Movie pooch 54 Mince 
45 Meal starter 
55 Fork prong 46 Hearty steak sa Hightailed it 47 Overact 59 Joker 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 



4-10 
By tapping into the stabilizing power of gyroscopes, Wade was able to teach his son to walk at just five months. 
.;·~.;·· ~ 4i!t --~~:~, 

:·· Ot=''INTEREST 
Building, and 

Tortilla Soup Chicken Teriyaki 
Mushroom Quiche 
Have 
something to 
say? 
Use The Observer classifieds 
.. 
-

rrhe 06server 
Published Monday through Friday, '11ie 06serveris a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found '11ie 06server an indispensible link to the two cam­puses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive '11ie 06server in your 
home. 
Make checks payable: The Observer and mail: P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $60 for one academic year. 
D Enclosed is $35 for one semester. 
NaiDe __________________________________ _ 
Address____~----------------------­
City______State___Zip.____ 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
What -was the significance of the Erie Canal ? 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
t Mosquito marks &It might be arched to Talks gangsta-style t4 "The Tempest" 
spirit 15 Country path 111 Dutch cheese 17 Pirates' flag tt Medical 
researcher's goal 20 Aardvark snacks 21 More than big 
22 Onetime hostess Maxwell 
23--Aiamos 
24 Spendthrift 
26 Goods cast overboard 30 Halts 32 Kind of label 33 Con artist's aide 34 Baden-Baden, e.g. 37 Popular sort 40 Take advantage of 41 Unaccompa­nied 42 Clamor 43 Babble 44 In the open, as beliefs 45 High-spirited horses 48 Etch A Sketch, e.g. 49 Mil. defense systems 

2 8 -' ~  THE "Q" SPEAKING STANDS OF Q ... IT'S  
;  FOR MISSING Tl-\E  
~  QUALITY LETTER Q.  
~  
~ 0 " 0  

~~~~~~~~~~u 
so Escargot 53 Book after John 57 Swag 58 All-for-one 
feeling so It's just for openers 61 Russia's -­
Mountains 62 Make amends 63 Antler wearer 64 Red-ink amount &5 Stared 
open-mouthed 
DOWN 
t --California 2Collar 
straightener 3 Pinball no-no 4 Slippery fish sOn the 
(furtively) &Lumps 7 Fury a Change for a 
five 9"---of London" (1935 
film) to Playtime 11 Grown-up 12 Analyze 
grammatically t3 Libel ta Kitchen, e.g. 23 Rigging rope 25 In generous 
amounts 26Amulet 
\ 
27 Son of Seth 28 Bathroom 
feature 29 The sun JOGiowed 
31 Cause of beach erosion 33 Lampblack 34 Use a letter opener 35 Sit 
36 Overwhelmed 38 Generous drink 
serving 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

-... -· --------~---.:...---~--...·------------.-~· 
1 1 1 1 1 • o o 1 o I o I I o I I 0 o t I I I J t I I' I I'' 


• BOOKSTORE BASKETBAll 
Four-year senior squads bring fun to tournament 
Tightie-Whities make brief appearance 
By TIM SEYMOUR Associate Spons Editor 
In a tournament where tem­pers constantly flare and dream teams are routinely assembled for conquest instead of cama­raderie, it's refreshing to see Bookstore Basketball teams that have stuck together for four years. 
Perhaps the most interesting, and certainly the most amusing of these senior-dominated squads is the crowd favorite Tightie-Whities IV: The Final Thrust. They may not be the most cohesive of units, and they definitely didn't threaten to be­come a dynasty, but clearly no one has more fun than these guys. 

Sadly their careers have come to a close, as this year's version was eliminated 21-11 by Total Consciousness on frigid after­noon at the Bookstore courts. However, they didn't leave without leaving an impression. 
"It was really cold out there, so they showed a great deal of courage to run around in noth­ing but underwear," stated Matt Hoefling of Total Consciousness. 
Seniors Matt Riley, Brian Kickham, Max Murphy, Jack Minson and Jordan Maggio have been entertaining them­selves and the crowds with their scanty dress and painted bodies for the past four years. 
Eschewing more traditional warmups for bathrobes and towels, the Tightie-Whitey contingent gets serious at game time, wearing nothing but their name-sake no matter what the conditions. 
"Two years ago we played in the snow, so this year wasn't particularly bad," explained Riley, who played as "The Wookie" in a futile attempt to make up for his lack of clothing by adding hair to his anatomy. 

"We go out and have a great time," he continued. 'The best part is seeing the absolute fear in the eyes of our opponents. The other team always appears nauseated." 
Certainly the unconventional attire causes some changes in the game plan. As Total Consciousness' Hoefling put it, "When a guy in underwear dri­ves hard to the lane, you don't get in front of him." 
"You don't want to be boxing us out, that's for sure," laughed Riley. 
Despite these advantages, Tightie-Whities' career will end without a victory to their name, although this year's point total marked their highest output ever, the culmination of a steady progression since a dis­mal two points their freshmen year. 
"We're out there to win, but it's not the most important part for us," said Riley. "We have secret parts to our personality that only come out once a year." 
Not every four-year team is quite as extreme, but each has a story to tell. 
see BOOKSTORE/ page 10 

-
• LACROSSE 

Colle 

Senior tallies nine points, ties record 
By DAVE TREACY Spons Writer 
What happened this Saturday was a product of the meeting of preparation and opportunity for Notre Dame. 
Against an outplayed Harvard team, the Irish offense turned in their first truly stel­lar performance of the season, leading the squad to a 15-10 victory. 
The significance of this occurrence is unquestionable. 
"This game was a huge emo­tional lift for us," said head coach Kevin Corrigan. "We're finally at the level we need to be at," 
Indeed, the Irish came out of their collective shell against the Crimson. Coupled with the offensive explosion, the Notre Dame defense stifled the Harvard attack, providing the opportunity for Notre Dame's first win against the Ivy League. 
The man of the hour was not surprising. He's led the Irish all season, quarterbacking the offense and providing solid leadership throughout the sea­son. The llttackman tallied five goals and four assists against the listless Harvard defense, tying the Notre Dame record for points in a game. The four assists brought him three dish­es away from the Irish record for total assists in a career. He already holds the Notre Dame records for most goals and most points in a career. 
He is Randy Colley. 
"Randy could do this in any 
given game. I'm glad he chose 
to do it when we needed it," 


Monday, April 10 
Bookstore Basketball firsr round action begins today. 

Corrigan added about his tri­captain. 
Not to be forgotten in this ef­fort is the play of middie Will Sutton. Teaming with Colley for most of the day, Sutton recorded four goals and two assists to bring his season total to 26 points. 
"The seniors earned the re­spect of the team," Corrigan said. "They led us through practice this week. Today, we 
Tuesday, Aprilll 
ND Baseball vs. Illinois 5p.m. Eck Stadium NO Softball at Michigan 2p.m. SMC Tennis vs. Hillsdale 3p.m. 
• SOFTBAll 
Irish shutout twin bill 
BY NEIL ZENDER Sports Writer 
The only thing that kept the Notre Dame softball club from going 4-0 this weekend was the weather. South Bend's weather con­ditions kept the Irish from playing a double­h e a d e r against Loy o Ia of 
L...___________j Chicago on Battersby Sunday. But still, the cancellation could not erase Notre Dame's impressive doubleheader sweep of Wisconsin-Green Bay on Saturday. 
The Irish improved their record to 23-9 overall and 6-0 in the MCC Conference by notching 3-0 and 9-0 victories over the Phoenix. 
"It was a great example of how good this team can be when it plays with intensity," head coach Liz Miller said. "We made solid contact at the plate, but more importantly, we were aggressive with the bats." 
Notre Dame won the first game impressively, behind Joy Battersby's complete game, three-hit effort. Although Battersby (9-4) wal.ked five batters, and found herself in occasional jams, she was al­ways cool enough to escape unscathed, stranding nine Phoenix baserunners. 
All the Irish runs came in the 
fourth inning. Elizabeth 
see SOFTBALL I page 14 
Thursday, April 13 
ND Lacrosse vs. Air Force 3p.m. Moose Krause Field SMC Tennis at Midwest Invitational 
wanted to be the best team on the field. During the week, they helped us to be the best team we could be." 
Colley and Sutton teamed up for the first two Irish scores of the day. The rest of the squad took their lead, outscoring Harvard 7-3 in the first fifteen minutes of play. Colley truly controlled from the start, amassing five total points in the quarter. Tim Kearney con­tributed to Colley's first goal of the day with a crisp pass from the point. Colley netted the other two points unassisted. 


The next quarter was slightly different. Harvard and Notre Dame traded possessions, but only the Crimson were able to capitalize, knotting the game at 7-7. 
Harvard goalie Rob Lyng 
see COLLEY I page 13 
Wednesday, April 12 
ND Baseball at Purdue 3p.m. ND Softball vs. Western Michigan 3p.m. Ivy Field ND Tennis vs. Michigan 3p.m. Eck Pavillion SMC Softball vs. North Central 3:30 











