National Championship Edition 

Monday, December 4, 1995 • Vol. XXVII No. 66 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVINC NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Euphoric women :S soccer team returns home with national title 
The Observer/Rob Finch 

The Notre Dame women's soccer team celebrates (top) after defeating the Portland Pilots 1-0 on Cindy Daws' direct kick. (Above) Shannon Boxx and Laura Vanderberg admire the National Championship trophy at Michiana Regional Airport. 


Council plans 'Women's Week' 
By DONNA MIRANDOLA 
N~w> Writer 
The Saint Mary's College Stu­dPnt Aeademie Council (SAC) nwt last night to give updates on the upcoming Women's Wt~ek, the Saint Mary's College I·'II'Sl grant, and the SAC pam­phlr.t that will be presented at tlu~ Student Government Forum on .January 23. 
As Women's Week. February 5-9, draws closer. Council nwmbers are finalizing plans for the activities of the week. Updates w!'fe given by the 11\fHnbnrs working on the Wonwn's Health Fair, a possi­ble self-dnfense session, and votPr registration. which will take place during the week commemorating the 75th an­niversary of women's suffrage. 
One change was made to the schedule; the Keynote Speak­er's address was moved to Tuesday, February 20. The speaker for the week will be Dr. Jean Kilbourne, addressing the issue of images of women in the media. 
A Variety Show update was given by Chairwoman Racquel Mitchell who announced that a meeting concerning the show will be held on Wednesday, De­cember 6, at 9 p.m. in Haggar Parlor. The meeting will be held to "determine the level of student interest in the idea and to encourage students to partie­ipate," Mitchell stated. 
The importance and goals of the Fund to Improve Post Sec­ondary Education (FlPSl) Grant awarded to Saint Mary's College were explained to the Council by alumna Melissa Peters. who is working on the grant. 
"There are two primary goals of the fund. Firstly, to establish leadership models between fac­ulty, administration, and stu­dents of the college; secondly, the fund strives to establish the leadership and identity of Saint Mary's as a catholic women's college," stated Peters. 
An important aspect of the 
see SAC I page 6 
By DAVE TYLER 
News Editor 

and BRAD PRENDERGAST 
Associate News Editor 

W:
len the Irish women's soccer team stepped off their plane at the Michiana Regional Airport last night, they were rather tired. And rightly so. 
They knocked off the undefeated, defending champion North Carolina Tar Heels in the semifinal round of the NCAA tournament. Then they went into three overtimes and shut down the vaunted offense of the University of Portland. 
And, oh yes, they came home with the national championship. 
Notre Dame became only the third team to win an NCAA women's soccer crown by downing the Pilots 1-0 Sunday in sudden death overtime. Junior mid­fielder Cindy Daws' direct kick from just outside the penalty area was a crowning moment for a program that has been playing women's soccer on the varsity level for just eight years. 
"It has:1't sunk in yet." said a tired but jubilant Daws as she and her teammates 
. were greeted by 30 or so loyal fans at the airport. "Right now, I'm just happy to be a part of this team." Daws' goal put a quick and dramatic halt to a match that had already seen over 125 minutes of soccer. So rapid 
see CHAMPS I page 6 

Outlook gets brighter for recent college graduates 
ByJUDY DAUBENMIER 
Associated Press 
LANSING. Mich. 

New college graduates will find it slightly easier to turn their degrees into paychecks next spring, especially if they have an internship on their re­sume, a hiring survey released Mond.ay shows. 
The survey by Michigan State University projects a 4. 7 per­cent increase in the number of new college graduates who can expect to get jobs, the third straight annual improvement. 
"It remains a very competi­tive job market out there so the graduates by no means will find it easy hunting," said Patrick Scheetz, the survey author. "It is a modest improvement." 
Scheetz, direetor of the Colle­giate Employment Research Institute at the school, also said the best job prospects are for engi'neers, computer scientists, business majors, health profes­sionals and science majors. 
Starting salaries offered to new college graduates will inch up only about half a percent compared to last year, he said. 
Chemical engineers will draw the biggest pay -$41,183 ­while journalists will be offered the lowest starting salaries ­$20.154. 
see JOBS I page 6 


----~-----~----~~~---:-~---------­
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Monday, December 4, 1995 
• b.1smE Cm.UMfi 



Another 
•
VOICe 


of division 
How refreshing it was -------­
to stumble upon the  Dylan Barmmer  
inaugural issue of Right  Sporrs Writer  
Reason this month.  

What this University needs at this point is precisely yet another angry, pompous, divi­sive voice. 
To quote perhaps the most famous lor infamous) felon/victim of this decaying dec11de, "Can't we all just get along?" 
Now don't get me wrong. I am in favor of probing, thought-provoking writing on this campus. After all, this is a university, and we are supposed to be questioning more than just who the football team will face in a Bowl Game come New Year's Day. There exist many issues on this campus, in this country, and on this planet that deserve to be examined at length. 
My problem is with the method behind this analysis. 
As if it isn't already enough to come across ill-informed, questionably construct­ed, often maliciously spiteful arguments in the pages of The Observer's Viewpoint sec­tion, we now have an entire publication devoted to promoting division. 
What is perhaps most frightening about this is that while what appears in The Observer's Viewpoint section is presented as just that: a view, Right Reason wants us to accept much of the same rhetoric as "The Truth." 
Jn proclaiming that "America has a special role in God's plan for mankind" and "we have an advantage that our secular counter­parts cannot match: we know the Truth," is Right Reason not moving in the direction of an exclusivist, nationalistic, possibly quasi­fascist world view? Are the perceived attacks and snide comments on Protestants, multiculturalism, and folk music (of all things) really contributing to the benefit and progress of the Notre Dame "community"? 
There is little doubt in my mind that this is a campus which is moving closer -to division than unity. There is little apparent mixing among the races, and little to no tolerance among many for "different" students such as homosexuals. 
The fact remains that Notre Dame is a largely white, upper-middle class Catholic community. Much progress has been made towards a more diverse community, but we still have a long way to go in terms of understanding and loving one another. 
If Notre Dame and members of the Notre Dame community want to justify the current trend in inflammatory, exclusivist rhetoric as a result of the relatively recent expansion of what was, merely thirty years ago, a lily white all-male, Catholic University. that is their choice. This fact probably goes a long way towards explaining the situation. But let's keep the focus on the supposed element of love and compassion that exists within the Catholic faith. Let the love and accep­tance that Christ showed for others be the motivating factor in our approach towards those we encounter in our years under the Dome. 
After all, who needs hate when you can have love? Think about it. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TOUAY'S StAFf 
News Accent Kristi Kolski Dan Cichalski Heather Cocks Nate Wills 
Sports Production RafRadley Kristi Kolski Graphics Kira Hutchinson 
Torn Roland Lab Tech Katie Kroener 
Viewpoint Torn Johannesen 
Mike O'Hara 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

• Wm~to AT A GLANCE 
Transportation strike poses threat to French economy 
PARIS 
Faced with a massive strike that risks shutting down the French economy, the government said Sunday it was hiring 1, 700 private buses so mil­lions of. commuters could get to work. Even the company that runs Paris' famed "Bateaux Mouches" tour boats said it will provide free shuttle service along the Seine so "harassed Parisians" could get around. The three tour boats each have 1,000 seats. Railroad, public trans­portation, postal and utilities workers have been """·-"-"·'-·""' 
striking for 10 days to protest the government's austerity measures, and on Sunday their leaders urged private-sector workers to join them the next day. Nevertheless, the conservative govern­ment, determined to stick to its tough belt-tight­ening plan, isn't backing down. Speaking in Benin, President Jacques Chirac defended the plan and urged the French to trust the gov­ernment. "France is at a crossroads," he said in his first comment on the labor unrest. "I have chosen this path, the path ofreforms that have been put off for far too long." To slash its huge budget deficit, the government is freezing all wages for its 5 million public employees and extending to 40 the number of years they must pay .into the social security system before retiring. That would bring them in line with private-sector workers. To get around the transport strike, fleets of buses will bring 
Gingrich will remain party spokesman 
WASHINGTON 
Republican leaders spoke approvingly Sunday of Rep. Newt Gingrich's deci­sion to steer clear of TV cameras for a while, but said the speaker of the House will remain a top messenger for their party. "I think he himself feels that maybe it's best now to keep a low profile for a while, because there were some statements made that he re­

grets," Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole of Kansas said on CBS' "Face the Nation." Even some longtime support­ers were angered by Gingrich's statement that he tough­ened the terms in last month's partial government shut­down because he felt President Clinton had snubbed him aboard Air Force One, Republicans returning to Capitol Hill after Thanksgiving reported. A Senate Democrat agreed that Gingrich should keep a lower profile. "Newt ought to just quiet down, cut out all that rat-a-tat-tat he's got going and let Dole take over," Sen. Ernest Hollings, D-S.C., said on NBC's "Meet the Press." Hollings accused Gingrich of wanting too much power. 
Jordan tops Forbes' annual list 
NEW YORK 
Michael Jordan was the top earner among athletes for the fourth consecutive year, increasing his annual income to $43.9 million from $30.01 million. Jordan earned $3.9 million in salary and $40 million in outside income, Forbes estimated in its Dec. 19 issue. The maga­zine said he earned $36 million in 1993. Jordan has made $170 million since 1990, the magazine said, and could become the first athlete ever listed in the Forbes 400 of wealthiest people. Mike Tyson, out of prison and back in boxing, was second on the list at $40 million ­all from winnings. He made $25 million from his one fight and $15 million in signing bonuses. Deion Sanders, the only two-sport athlete, was third at $22.5 million. The outfielder and cornerback, who was 38th in 1994, made $16.5 million from salary and $6 million in endorsements. Boxer Hiddick Bowe, who wasn't listed in 1994, was fourth at $22.2 million. Steffi Graf remained the only woman on the list. in 30th place at $7.5 million. 


Monday, Dec. 4 
AccuWeather® forecast fnr <;laytirne conditions and high temperatures 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Monday, Dec. 4. 
COW WARM STATIONARY 
C 1995 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure 

H L ffi ISS! [Til 0 lZ] § a-b 0 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY VIa .ltssOC/8/fKI PrfiSS 

home suburban commuters from 13 points in Paris start­ing Monday evening. Beginning Tuesday, the buses will pick them up as well in 140 points in the region. 
Pope canonizes 274th saint 
VATICAN CITY 
A noble-born Frenchman who founded a missionary order that worked with American Eskimos and Indians is the Roman Catholic church's newest saint. Eugene de Mazenod was canonized Sunday, the 274th saint pro­claimed by Pope John Paul II in his 17-year papacy. Among those who attended Sunday's ceremony in St. Pe­ter's Basilica was a Mexican man the Vatican says was cured of cancer after praying to de Mazenod -one of two miracles attributed to the new saint. One miracle is required for someone· to be beatified, the last main step before sainthood, and another for canonization. The first miracle attributed to de Mazenod involved a Canadian man who lost his sight in a car accident but who regained it after praying to the missionaries' founder. The next miracle occurred in Mexico City in 1986. Doctors dis­charged Jesus Serrano Fernandez from a hospital to die at home of liver cancer. Parishioners gathered nightly in his home to pray to de Mazenod for help. One morning, the man got up, asked to eat, and miraculously recovered. Serrano Fernandez with his wife and children attended Sunday's ceremony. De Mazenod died in 1861. 
City bans Crazy Horse Malt Liquor 
ST. PAUL, Minn. 
Minnesota has banned the sale of Crazy Horse Malt Liquor, bowing to protests from American Indian groups and the estate of the revered 19th century Sioux leader, a state official said Sunday. The ban was not being enforced because G. Heileman Brewing Co. and the Hornell Brewing Co., which produce the malt liquor, have indicated they will appeal, said Kevin Burns, spokesman for the Public Safety Department. Public Safety Commissioner Michael Jordan issued the order Thursday banning the malt liquor, which is available in about 40 states and is banned in Washington and Nebraska. American Indians and others say using the Indian leader's name on a beer label is offensive, es­pecially because Crazy Horse opposed alcohol consump­tion and predicted devastating consequences for his peo­ple if they drank. The estate of Crazy Horse has opposed using the Crazy Horse brand name for the malt liquor since it was developed in 1992. 

Monday, December 4, 1995 The Observer • PEACEKEEPING MISSION page 3 
Clinton approves first American forces into Bosnia 

By TERENCE HUNT aside his opposition to U.S. participation in the Associated Press peacekeeping mission so that Americans sent 

u.s. 
to Bosnia know they have the full support of MADRID Congress. 
deployment
President Clinton authorized a vanguard of "It will be in the great spirit of foreign policy 700 American troops to open a risky mission that I think Republicans and Democrats will 
to Bosnia
in former Yugoslavia and rejected Bosnian now be united to support the American StJrb demands Sunday for rewriting the treaty troops," Rep. John Kasich, R-Ohio, another 
U.S. forces will help enforce. opponent of deployment~ said on NBC's "Meet "When you make a peace agreement, not the Press." 
Cost aspects of the 
everybody is happy with it," Clinton said, re­ferring to Bosnian Serb military leader Ratko "I think the American people should know U.S. participation in Mladic's warning that Serbs in Sarajevo will that we have a unique responsibility at this 50 miles·
Bosnia peacekeeping: 
never live under Muslim and Croat rule, as the moment in history," Clinton said. America's 
50km ·' , ~;.
agrnemnnt prescribes. status as a wealthy nation and the world's last Despite the complaints of Mladic and others, superpower "imposes on us great responsibili­Ill Bosnian government­D Rebel
Troops: t= 1000 troops Creal federation Sert
Clinton said, "I don't think the treaty is in ties," he said. 
as of Nov. 22

trouble and, no, I don't think it should be Other nations have taken military risks 
ttttt t tttt t•'tttewpartitionllne
rmwgotiated." It is to be signed Dec. 14 in when asked by the United States, such as in Paris. the Persian Gulf and Haiti. and Americans 
t t t t t t t t t t 5,000 troops In other parts $1.2 billion
Wrapping up a five-day European trip, should be willing to do likewise for Europe, 
20,000 troops In Bosnia of the former Yugoslavia 
Clinton announced he had given the go-ahead the president added. for sending into Bosnia 700 U.S. troops "When we fought in Desert Storm and all 
Operation "Deny Flight" (continued operations):
trained in logistics and communications. those people came to help us," Clinton said, 
U.S. F-16

Within a few days, the advance troops will "you didn't hear them making speeches (say­
Fighting Falcon . ', 
establish a U.S. headquarters in the northeast ing). 'We really don't have a dog in this town of Tuzla in preparation for nearly 20,000 fight. ... 
$300 million

Amerieans set to follow in a matter of weeks. Spain's prime minister, Felipe Gonzalez, at a The Americans, part of a 60,000-troop inter­news conference with the president, said the . ·~ national peacekeeping effort, will spend the U.S. deployment sends a signal "of utmost Support functions (missions outside Bosnia):~~ wint1~r and the months after that trying to sep­importance for international solidarity." arate warring parties and disarming land Clinton's advisers declared the trip a huge mines hidden by snow-covered fields. political success. "Unfortunately, I can't get the election held tomorrow," said Sen. Chris 
As he headed home from Europe, weary Dodd, chairman of the Democratic National from long days and late nights, Clinton faced Committee, traveling with the president on Air 
$500 million dnnp sktlptidsm from Americans citizens and Force One.' thn Congwss about thn military mission. And yet, Dodd acknowledged that calls to his 
Vehicle mounted 
air-defence

Snnate Majority Leader Bob Dole, H-Kan., congressional office on Bosnia have been run­
system,

said on CBS' "Faee the Nation" Sunday that ning "six. seven, eight, nine, ten-to-one around Wednesday this week the Senate will against." 
Funds already buda~ted:
take up a resolution supporting Ameriean Facing a tough budget fight with a $500 million
Base safanes

forces in Bosnia but also eontaining language Hepublican Congress, Clinton is likely to miss 
Day-to-day military operations

on arming Bosnian Muslims and providing a the rousing receptions and big crowds he saw dearcut exit strategy. over the past week traveling from London to 
Total estimated cost for one-year's military deployment: $2 billion
"If Bill Clinton is going to have the entry Belfast, Londonderry to Dublin and then on to strategy, the rest of us should have the exit Germany to greet American troops training in strategy," said Dole, who has agreed to put Germany for Bosnia peacekeeping duties. 
AP/Wm. J. Castello 



'Holy warriors' welcome U.S. 
By BRYAN BRUMLEY But others, more independent based at Meskovic, 9 miles west Associared Press units who clashed with British of Tuzla, where the Amerieans troops earlier this year, are may be headquartered. It is at­Bosnia-Herzegovina wild cards. tached to the 2nd Corps of the 
The region where 20,000 U.S. Some mujahedeen in the regular Bosnian army. Gls will be enforcing peace in Bosnian army say they've al­A former mujahedeen, Amir Bosnia is also patrolled by sev­ready received clandestine Sakic, rejected Western fears eral groups of Muslim mu­training from former U.S. spe­that the Bosnian mujahedeen jahedeen -holy warriors.who cial forces officers near the may pose a threat to NATO came to Bosnia to assist the small town of Lukavac. forces. Muslim-led government. U.S. officials have denied aid­''I'm afraid that the American 
Some mujahedeen joined spe­ing the Bosnians. ·But one for­people look at us like some kind cial units of the Bosnian army. mer mujahedeen said he fought of aborigines," Sakic said. From their base nestled in the alongside two American A threat, however, might stark hills amid coal slag heaps Muslims, who were acting in­come from non-Bosnian muja­
and strip mines above Tuzla, dependently of the U.S. gov­hedeen units, the most militant
off 
they say they welcome the ernment, on missions behind warriors, said to include Americans and hope to receive Serbian lines. Afghan and Sudanese fighters 
U.S. training and arms. The 9th Muslim Brigade is funded in part by Iran. 
Adult Cuts reg. s9.95 Kids Cuts reg. $7.95 mandunderl 
S&IH)', Rnlhluhlc di\l.'tiURh Pr~·,enll'tlUflOn IO rl!l'Ci\c d1~CUURI 
MasterCuts: • 
• 3 •
• • Pick any products & • ANY 
•• •• •• S4vQQ% •• 
PERM • 

• Starting at s34 • Receive AHoliday Gift Box Free! ••
• •• e
/nd11dr.1 Slwmp11o, Haima wid S1ylt. Wr rum. RrRiJ, .'lrx.tiiJ. Paul Milrht/1.
•
• '\t•U). n••lii•Jtllt· '''""~'lltll• I'J~••• ~•Mil" Ill ''''"ri\~J'""'''unl • Bto/UJ!(, ~~t'Dtl\lltiR 1mtl KMS. Sm)'.nodouhlcdJ-M.'IJUnh • 
: IVIasterCuts : IVIasterCuts : 
University Park Mall MasterCuts 
2 7 7-3770 family haircutters 
Just a typical Friday night: good friends, lots of alcohol... until something goes very wrong: 
CARE Presents: 

"When A Kiss is Not Just A Kiss" 
i • An interactive play adapted for Notre Dame life. · 
• 
Performed by Notre Dame and St. Mary's students 

• 
Monday, December 4,1995 


7:30 pm in the Library Auditorium 
from Brown University 
* Refreshments Will Be Served ! 
page 4 

The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, December 4, 1995 
Interim Report ofthe AdHoc Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs Submitted to Professor Patricia O'Hara, Vice Presidentfor Student Affairs 
I 
n your March 6, 1995, Open Letter to the Notre 
Dame community, you announced the creation of the 
Ad Hoc Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs, and you asked that the committee consider the following questions: 
1) How can the University, through Student Affairs, sponsor a facilitated setting respectful of Church teaching in which gay and lesbian students can come together as a group to explore common issues and find mutual support? 
2) What types of programs should Student Affairs sponsor for rectors, hall staff and other Student Affairs profession­als to better equip them to meet the needs of our gay and lesbian students? 
3) What additional measures should Student Affairs take to promote an environment free of harassment based on sexual orientation? 
As you know, the committee submitted a preliminary report to you on May 1, 1995, a copy of which appeared in the May 3 edition of the Observer, in which we reported on the status of our conversations as of the end of the 1995 spring semester. Our May 1 report contained several recommendations which dealt specifically with part (2) of our mandate. The committee is pleased to note the implementation of several of these recommenda­tions, in particular the inclusion of a workshop on gay and lesbian issues in R.A. Orientation, your words of welcome at Freshman Orientation which made specific reference to gay and lesbian students, and the efforts of several residence hall rectors to welcome and support gay and lesbian students. 
Early in our work together this semester, the commit­tee determined that ifwe were truly to serve the needs of gay and lesbian students on this crunpus, it was imperative . for us to listen to a number of voices within the Notre Dame community. We have spent most of the semester doing just this. We have met six times over the course of this semester. Of those six meetings, four were devoted to listening to approximately 45 people, most of whom are gay or lesbian students on this campus. 
The committee has chosen to spend this semester 
listening, and we will spend the early part of next semester 
formulating and discussing our final recommendations. 
The complexity of the issues before us and the 
committee's desire to be open to the voices we have heard 
require that we take the time needed for careful reflection 
and honest dialogue among committee members. We 
have asked you to extend the time for the submission of 
our final report from the original December 6, 1995, date 
to March 1, 1996, and you have agreed to do so. 
· While we are not ready to offer our final recommen­
dations, we did want to update you on the work of the 
committee during this 1995 fall semester. In listening to 
gay and lesbian students on this campus, both under­
graduate and graduate, many expressed feelings of fear, 
frustration and isolation. The students spoke of the very 
real terror they experienced at the prospect of revealing 
their sexual orientation to roommates, friends and family. 
Several students reported feeling such a sense of isolation that they contemplated suicide. Others chose to act out in ways that were equally self-destructive. While some have been encouraged by the recent efforts of the University to welcome and support them, most continue to question whether they are truly valued as members of this community. 
The gay and lesbian students with whom we spoke talked about how very difficult it is to be gay at Notre Dame. These students have had to look to each other for support and assistance, feeling that their needs are largely ignored by the University. GLND/SMC has been the primary source of support for most of the students to whom we listened. 
Many gay and lesbian students spoke about their commitment to their faith and their desire to find a way to live as adult Christians. They want the University to provide gay and lesbian students with the resources they need to integrate their sexuality and their faith lives. They expressed their need for gay and lesbian role models who can assist them in this process. 
We have also listened to a small group of gay mem­bers of the faculty who shared their perspectives on the needs of gay and lesbian students at Notre Datne. The faculty members underscored many of the concerns raised by the students. Some described an atmosphere of fear among gay and lesbian faculty which impacts negatively upon students who are coming to terms with their own sexual identity. They urged that the non-discrimination clause found in University publications be amended to prohibit discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. 
Representatives from the local chapter of Parents and Friends of Lesbian and Gays (PFIAG) spoke with the committee from the vantage point of their experience. These representatives highlighted the discrimination and harassment that their gay and lesbian friends and children often face, and the erroneous assumptions so many of us make about homosexuality. 
The committee has found these listening sessions with students, faculty and parents invaluable and is grateful to all who shared their insights. Each of us has been deeply moved by what we have heard over these past months. The members of the committee have grown in their awareness of the pain and sense of alienation experienced by gay and lesbian students on this campus. We have been inspired by the ways in which gay and lesbian students have cared for and assisted each other, and we have been impressed by the earnestness and faithfulness with which many seek to live out their lives as Christians. 
In the weeks ahead, the committee will frame its final recommendations in light of what we have heard and within the context of our mandate. It is our hope that the recommendations of this committee will help to make Notre Dame the kind of safe and inclusive environment it should be and enhance the University's efforts to meet the needs of its gay and lesbian students. 
On behalf of the committee, I thank you for your continued support. 
Respectfully submitted, 
Ann M. Firth, Chair 
December 1, 1995 

Monday, December 4, 1995 The Observer· WASHINGTON NEWS page 5 
Childless question tax credit 
GOP: New budget crucial to avert second shutdown
By DAVE SKIDMORE credit, in effect shifting some John Mallah, a Miami Beach Associated Pross of the relative tax burden onto attorney and president of the the other 86 million house­Association of Separated WASIIINGTON holds. American Parents, said di­
From almost any angle, the The National Commission on vorced parents without cus­Hepublicans' proposed $500-Economic Growth and Tax Re­tody deserve the credit as well p•lr-child tax credit looks like form, headed by former Hous­as "Ozzie-and-Harriet" fami· a sure crowd pleaser. But ing Secretary Jack Kemp, so· lies. there's an undercurrent of dis­licited one-page letters in ''We want to provide for our conbmt. Money magazine and in other children.... Unfortunately, we 
Although some lawmakers forums. are often prevented from would rather cut the budget Most focus on the long-range doing so because of our dimin­delieit. or want lower income issue before the commission, ished living standard," he eligibility caps, no ono has whether a Oat-rat(~ Income tax said. doubted the credit's sheer or a consumption tax should Some, such as .Joyce Ball of political popularity. replace the current system. Danville, Ill., agreed with the 
However, resentment sim· But many writers also com· Republican push to funnel tax mers among those left out. mented on this year's legisla­relief to parents above the cur­They include childless taxpay· tion, which includes the credit. rent $2,450 exemption for de­ers, parents of ehildren too old Earlier this year, President pendents. to qualify (those 11:1 and older) Clinton proposed his own per­"Who can raise a child on and divorced parents without child credit. So some form of it $2,450 a year'?" she asked. custody. seems to have the best chance But others want stricter lim­
"I do not have a ehance to of any tax provision to survive its. claim any exemptions. being negotiations between the ad­"A change ... to allow a de­single," Emerald Star of Hen· ministration and Congress. duction for only one or two dersonville, Tenn., said in a But, whatever the outcome, children would be an incentive letter to a GOP tax reform not everyone will be happy. to produce less children," commission. "I have been "Do not limit the $500 tax wrote Fred Chapman of Vir· working since I was 15 to sup­credit to just families," wrote ginia Beach, Va. port myself and frankly am Wayne Wealer of Newport, And Delores Smith, a sick of 'families' receiving Ore. "Retireos and all other biofeedback and stress man· aid." middle-class taxpayers need agement therapist in Twin 
In fact, she represents tho tax relief as well. Taxation is Falls, Idaho, said parents majority of taxpayers. Only 29 putting us all in the poor should pay higher. not lower, million households will get the house." t~xes. 
By JIM ABRAMS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Averting another government shutdown that would lay off federal workers just before Christmas depends on Presi­
dent Clinton coming up. with his own plan to bal­ance the budget, con­gressional Hepublicans said Sunday. 


"It's going Dole to be up to the administration," said Rep. John Kasich, R-Ohio, chairman of the House Budget Committee. He said he was hopeful that a way could be found to keep the government operating, but only if the administration puts its ideas on the table. "We have not had any good faith negotia· tions yet." 
Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole, R-Kan., also pressed Clinton to produce a plan for balancing the budget in seven years, saying the burden would be on the president's shoulders if the government is forced to shut down for a second time when a temporary spendiog measure expires on Dec. 15. 
Dole said Saturday that a repetition of the six-day shut­down in November was "not going to happen." But he conditioned that remark in his appearance on CBS' "Face the Nation" Sunday. 
''I'm not an advocate of shut­ting down the government. We did that. We made our state­ment," Dole said. But if Clinton 
Please

~@fro~@ff ~~~~® 
Recycle

[?~~~ W1r@~ M@~~@~ 
The 

of Neil Simon'B Plaza Suite 

Observer

There will be an Informational meeting for Seniors interested In acting or helping 
Engagement Rings

7:00 pm Wednesday, December 6th 
10%-15% OFF! 
122 Hayea-Healey 
Official Wholesale Price List! 

S.A. Peck & Co. (Those cast will receive scripts, 
55 E. Washington, Chicago, IL 60602 For a Free 32-Page Color Catalog

but rehearsals will not begin until January) 
Toll-Free (800) 922-0090 FAX (312) 977-0248 lnlemel Cola/og oJ hllp: /lwww.sapeck. comlsnpuk 




c9V~ 
Saturday, December 9, 1995 LaFortune Ballroom 
8:00PM  A  YEAR  WITHOUT A  SANTA  
CLAUS  
9:00PM  FROSTY THE SNOWMAN  
9:30PM  THE GRINCH  WHO  STOLE  
CHRISTMAS  
I 0:00PM  RUDOLPH  THE  RED-NOSED  
REINDEER  
I :00PM  A  CHRISTMAS  STORY  

When the Great American Dream isn't great enough 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility or a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
"doesn't come forth with any­thing and make any serious of­fers, then we have to face up to a shutdown again on the 15th. 
"Just as we are cooperating with the pmsident on Bosnia, he needs to cooperate with us on the budget," Dole said. 
The longest fnderal shutdown in history ended on Nov. 19 under an agreement between the White !louse and Congress that extended spending until Dec. 15 while committing the president to negotiating a seven-year timetable for hal· ancing the budget. 
But the opening of those ne­gotiations last week produced little but acrimony. 
Senate Budget Committee Chairman Pete Domenici, H­N.M., joining Kasich on NBC's "Meet the Press." said the lack of progress resulted from "a huge battle going on in the White House. Actually it's a battle for the soul of the presi­dent -does he really want a balanced budget in seven years?" 
Democrats appearing on NBC countered that it was the He­publicans who cut off the talks on Thursday amid noisy politi­cal posturing. "The adminis­tration was there Thursday with a load of materials ready to talk," insisted Hep. Martin Sabo, D-Minn. 
"To close the government down while this nonsensical pollster pap is going on is just stupidity," said Sen. Ernest llollings, D-S.C. 
llollings, in an o!Thanded de­fense of Clinton, said GOP claims that the White II ouse has failed to come up with a budget plan weren't true. 


Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 631-6385 
-~--~----~~---~----~---~----------­
page 6 The Observer • NEWS 
Cha01ps 
continued from page 1 
was the conclusion, it stunned even the players' and the coaches. 
"1 never saw the shot," said head coach Chris Petrucelli. "And then, when I saw every­body react, I thought, 'Oh my God, we won it."' 
A combination of confusion by the Pilots and heads-up think­ing by Daws lead to the Irish score. After a Portland penalty gave the Irish a free kick, Pilot goalkeeper Erin Fahey was so preoccupied with setting up a wall of defenders that she was screened by the players from seeing the shot. Daws noticed her confusion and took advan­tage of it. 
"It was a great play on Cindy's part," goalkeeper Jen Renola said. "We needed brains to win this game. We were too tired." 
Daws would have never been in position to score if Renola had not made a clutch save on a breakaway shot from the Pilots' Kimberly Engesser (brother of Notre Dame men's team member Brian Engesser) at point-blank range in the first overtime. 
"[Engesser] was wide open,'' said Renola. "As she came to­ward me, two things ran through my mind. I was think­ing 'Wow, she is so wide open,' and then I thought that nothing was going to get through my hands." 
Fortunately, Engesser did not get a good shot. The freshman forward launched a kick that went directly into the calm arms of Renola. 
"After that shot, I knew that someone wanted us to "win," Renola said. "Someone was on our side." 
That level of cool confidence was echoed by SODJe of the Irish faithful as they waited at the airport terminal last night for the team to return. A collective gasp rose from Notre Dame stu­dents watching the game on television on campus as Renola made the save, but from that point on several students believed the Irish were destined to win. 
"My heart stopped [when En­gesser took that shot]," said se­nior Alex Montoya, a self-de­scribed Irish soccer fanatic. "But when I saw how calm Renola was, I knew we were okay." · 
Montoya is one of over a dozen members of an unofficial fan club for the women's soccer team. Dubbed the "Dog Pound,'' because of the mem­bers tendency to bark at oppos­ing players as they walk past the group, the club attended all of the home games this year and made trips to away games in nearby cities such as Indi­anapolis and Dayton. 
Yesterday, Daws' goal simul­taneously brought emotions of shoe~ and euphoria to the group. 
"I was utterly amazed, and then the realization that the dreams of the players and the fans had come true hit me," said Dog Pound member Brian Carpenter. "The team set out to accomplish this, and they did it." 
The stage for yesterday's championship contest was set with a 1-0 win over the Tar Heels on Friday. Despite con­·cerns that the Irish would ex­perience a letdown after the semifinal triumph, Petrucelli had the team ready to go. 
"Throughout the season, we kept talking about what our goals were, and one of our goals was to win the national championship," Petrucelli said. "We stuck with that goal." 
Montoya, sporting a perpetual grin as he waited for the team's plane to arrive, agreed. 
"Petrucelli was wise enough to keep the team focused after the North Carolina win. He made sure that the intensity of the championship matchup was not anticlimactic," Montoya said. "To win in the Tar Heels' house -that was big." 
Notre Dame Executive vice-,. 
7P~i~:;.:~~c~:~:,s From$1ndianapol)is icago
4 & Ch9
• 
AfT Non-Stop A1tfare 

• 
7 Nights Hotel Accom. 

• 
AfT Airport to Hotel Transfers 

• 
College Tours famous VIP Party Package: FREE cover charges, FREE parties. FREE food & drinks. EXCLUSIVE special events. OVER $150 in savings! 


LOWEST PRICES • BEST HOTELS • BIGGEST PARTIES 
ORGANIZE A GROUP AND TRAVEL FREEl 
CP.'-'-<OLLE~E TOURS 
,.ooP-'1'\ 800-195-4896 
Prioe1 prilf perwoo, plua tax•• Public Char1el10 Ill& North-a! AIIIIMS (A·320). Tour Operator 11 Fuoquast Vacalloos Cataria in Op!Par1 Cootr.ct 


• I I' I • I I 1 I f I I' 
Monday, December 4, 1995 

president William Beauchamp said the championship earns a place in the storied history of sports at the University. 
"This is great for Notre Dame. It's a tribute to Chris as a coach and all the women on this team...to include a victory over North Carolina on their home field and then to win it all is an incredible accomplishment." 
While Beauchamp was able to appraise the win with a specta­tor's eye, some of the main characters in the drama were still trying to grasp the magni­tude of their victory. 
"It's so weird," said senior sweeper Ashley Scharff. "I don't think it has hit us yet. I don't know when it will." 
90 minutes of regulation, 30 minutes of overtime and five minutes of sudden death will do that to a team. 
"We were all so exhausted, so tired. [When the ball went in,] it was a relief," Scharff said. 
Daws though knew there was only one bottom line. 
"I've heard some people say we won ugly. It doesn't matter though because we're national champions." 

Jobs 
continued from page 1 
Scheetz said despite the projected increase, hiring still will be below the levels of 1988-89. Prospects are brightest in the nation's southeastern and north-cen­tral regions. 
"There has been so much downsizing and re-engineer­ing going on that many of the opportunities that once exist­ed have disappeared.... There are many jobs that have been lost in recent years and those probably will not return for many, many years," he said. 
Federal agencies expecting tighter budgets are cutting staffing levels substantially while private employers are cautious about expanding too much, he said. 

"The employers are all looking out of the corner of their eye at the economy," Scheetz said. 
~!V ;::~:;;;;:;;;ye;;:=~;;;i::.:··'li~ 
MESSIAH 
The University of Notre Dame Chorale & The University of Notre Dame Orchestra 
Thursday, December 7, 8:00p.m. Friday, December 8, 8:00p.m. Washington Hall 
~'lll)( $6 General Seating, $3 Students & Semor~ ~ttfl~
~~ft'~ f1ckl'ts av~IIablc at LaFortune Info. Desk and ill ~~&~ ~~~...::::~~.~~:~~~.~.~::~:.~~~~:.~.~~~~:.~:~~~~.:~~~~~e••· ··o~~ 
SAC 
continued from page 1 
fund is the level of student par­ticipation. "Students will make this grant happen,'' said Peters. 
At the January 23 Student Government Forum, SAC will present a pamphlet detailing the responsibilities of the Coun­cil and the composition re­quirements for each depart­ment. Council member Emily Duncanson stated that the pamphlet will "define SAC and give people information as to who we are and what we do within the college community." 
Ring in the New Year with the Irish in Miami ~ Discounted airfare from any city ~ Headquarters hotel ~ Shuttle to game For information call 631-7080 or stop by our office in the lower level of LaFortune 11The Offi:cial Travel Service ofNotre Daine11  


-----~ 
!

Monda~Dece_m_b_e_r_4_,1_9_9_S___________________T~h=e~O~b~s~er~ve~r~·~I~N~T~E~~~X~T~IO§§N~AJL~~N~~~~S~~~~~~~~~~~§§~~~~~p~agje~7 
•ISRAEL 
Rabin's assassin suggests bodyguard helped him 
By DAN PERRY dence has surfaced so far to support his claim that one of
Associa•e.:::.d.:...:l'rc.:.::•ss=-------­Rabin's bodyguards was killed. TELAVlV "1 can say something that will Yitzhak Habin's confessed as­destroy everything ... Every­sassin suggested Sunday that thing until now was a mask," one of the prime minister's said Amir, wearing a white T­bodyguards helped him, saying shirt with a gray sweater 
that the truth about the slaying draped over his shoulders as he would .:·turn the country upside entered the court. down.. "I did not think they would 
Yigal Amir fed rumors of a start killing people," he mut­wider conspiracy in the assas­tered. sination when he said that au­"You are killing people," re­thorities killed a Habin body­torted Judge Dan Arbel. 
guard who helped him by "If I tell the truth, it would creating confusion during the turn the country upside down," Nov. 4 shooting at a Tel Aviv Amir said, waving his hand dis­peaee rally. missively and sitting down. 
"Why don't you publicize that A government spokesman they killed one of Rabin's body­called Amir's comments "non­guards? The one who shouted sense." The Observer/Dave Murphy 'The bullets are dummies,"' G. 'Z'
tve me a ... 

Amir yelled to reporters as he Police investigator Arieh Sil­
verman requested Amir's Zahm Hall junior Mike Tobin helps put up the dorm's traditional Christmas decoration, a large 'Z'
was brought into a Tel Aviv courtroom to have his deten­detention be extended eight adorned with red lights. tion extended. days beyond the maximum 30 
Amir, 25, has in the past in­days without charge. The con­• WEST BANK sistnd that he acted alone, and tents of the document were not previous reports indicated revealed. Amir was the one who shouted The judge agreed to extend 


Palestinian police enter Bethlehem 
the bullets were fake. No evi-Amir's detention by four days. By NASSER SHIOUKHI PLO leader Vasser Arafat. control. 
Associated Press "This is the sweetest moment In past years, visitors passed in my life," said Khalil through Israeli metal detectors BElT JALA Dakadeka from the nearby vil­to reach Manger Square and The first Palestinian police lage of Beit Fajjar. the Church of the Nativity, and who will take control of Bethle­"We have waited for this Israeli army snipers were post­
hem from Israeli troops by moment for many years," said ed on rooftops. Christmas raised the Pales­Bethlehem merchant Nader Israeli troops are to leave tinian flag on a hill overlooking Hidweh. Bethlehem on Dec. 18, but 
the biblical city Sunday. As he raised the flag, Brig. there has been talk of troops 
About 400 people turned out Gen. Ziad Atrash, a senior po­retaining control of the Bethle­to welcome the 12 officers who lice commander. announced: hem main road and military opened the Israel-Palestinian "Christmas will be under the headquarters if a bypass road liaison office in this neighbor­auspices of the Palestinian Au­around the city for Jewish set­ing village. They raised the red, thority. and Arafat will attend tlers has not been finished. green, black and white Pales­the ceremonies." Earlier Sunday, dozens of 
tinian flag over the office. Thirty thousand people are Palestinians tried in vain to 
Residents clapped and chant­expected to attend Christmas block bulldozers clearing land ed "We will sacrifice soul and celebrations in Bethlehem's for a bypass road around He­blood for Palestine" when the Manger Square, the traditional bron, 12 miles south of Bethle­officers marched in, carrying birthplace of Jesus, for the first hem. The road cuts through handguns, flags and pictures of Christmas under Palestinian cultivated. olive groves and 
grape vineyards in Halhoul, a Palestinian village outside of Hebron. 
'This is my land, and it is the'1,()11 'Jli~N lll~i\SftNS only thing I have," said Ali Akel, 45. "I understand that this peace is a peace for land,
'1,() ,J()JN 
Who said that in order to look good I but the Israeli government has you had to spend a lot of money? both tho peace and the land." (~())J)JIJNI'I,II~S Nit Goodwill carries all the Brand Name I Soldiers pushed the protest­clothing you like,but without the brand 1 ers back and kept them from new prices.We have the same large, I blocking the bulldozers. quality selection of clothing I Under the Israel-PLO agree­
10. No papers, finals or grades that you would find in the ment signed in September, Is­
mall ...but at a 1 rael is supposed to be out of six 
9. Free candles price that will I Palestinian cities by the end of keep you coming the year. and out of Hebron in
8. Monk wants you to back, looking good, I March. and impressing 1 Israel's Cabinet said Sunday
7. Better than an SYR friends. So, the next I that the rede.ployment of Israeli time you need a troops in the West Bank will
far making new friends particular outfit, or I proceed on schedule. you're just looking for 1
6. Chance to talk about Sunday's Gospel some_thing different, I g1ve us a try.
ahead of time You'll find there's I something for everyone I
5. Discover the challenge of adult Christianity at Goodwill. 
4. Easier to get into than an NDE 
3. Co-ed, Co-ed, Co-ed! 
2. Terrific way to learn about your faith 
Parts $185 

1. Nobody goes to heaven by themselves London .$215 San Jose $239 Madrid $269 TolkVo $359
New Communities begin in January --find out what they're all about NOW! 

Taipei $425 

Sign-ups and information sheets are avallable at the Library and Badin Hall Campus Ministry offices. Any undergraduate student may sign up before the end of the semester. The initial commitment is for the til.ihl$11rravel ~ 
CIEE1 Counctl on lnl.-nathm.J Educ.Hollll Exchqe
Rally Day (January 20, 1996) and six meetings throughout the spring semester. 1-800-2-COUNC/l 
fi-BOB-226-86241 

Questions? Call Darrell Paulsen or Kate Barrett at Campus Ministry: 631-5242 
Call todav for af.!lll 
Student Travels magazine! 


page 8 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, December 4, 1995 







Surprise your folks. 
• RUSSIA 
Communists gaining support 
By JULIA RUBIN 
Associated Press 
VOLGOGRAD 

Outside the huge Volgograd Tractor Factory, where half the workers have been laid off, campaign fliers are posted ev­ery yard or so -all for Com­munist Alevtina Aparina. 
The photograph of the 54­year-old parliament member and regional Communist Party leader is tiny next to the facto­ry's giant Soviet-era murals of muscled construction workers. But her influence is bigger. 
The Communists swept the· election for Volgograd's City Council in October. winning 22 of the 24 seats in this depressed industrial city once known as Stalingrad. Party leaders por­tray the city as a stronghold in a "Hed Belt" of growing Com­munist support in Hussia's heartland. 
Actually. the Communists on the city council are having trou­ble even following through on their plan to change its name to "City Soviet." the term used in the days when the party held sway over all of the Soviet Union. 
And nobody expects the Communists to win the same kind of margin in the national parliamentary elections Dec. 17. 
But the local victory does hold clues to the Communists' strength -and the limitations they may face if they do win more power. 
Aparina says the Communist victory in Volgograd resulted from voters' despair and dis­gust with free-market and political reforms. 
"People vote for Communists because when Communists were in power. this country was to be reckoned with. When Communists were in power, children got the very best. Old 

AP 

people were guaranteed a se­cure future," she said, sipping coffee at her desk beneath a bust of Vladimir Lenin. 
Nostalgia for the Soviet past is strong among workers, the old and infirm and others unable to find a niche in the new Hussia. They blame democracy for the crime and poverty that has hit many Hussians. forgetting the prob­lems that brought down the Soviet Union. 
The Communist victory in October was also a display of their still unique organizing skills. They essentially won by just showing up. In one district, the victorious Communist can-
The Irish Play at The Works! 
• Free Buffet • Monday -Chicago Style Hotdogs Thesday -Work Sliders 
(Mini Style Burgers) 

Wednesday-Friday­Entertainment Saturdays -Open Acoustic Mike .-=iO 1 N. Niles Ave, South Bend (2 I 9) 232-4414 
didate was supported by just 7 percent of the eligible voters. 
Other parties say they were caught unprepared or were concentrating on more impor­tant races -such as the may­oral race, which was won by a non-Communist. and the na­tional elections. 
"The return of the Commu­nists is a myth -a bluff," said Alexander Petrov. the Vol­gograd representative of Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin's Our Home Is Russia bloc. 
But while most of the 43 com­peting parties are still looking for their niches and battling voter apathy. the Communists have their troops: mainly poor retirees who are determined to go to the polls. The old political network that reached every So­viet village and factory still breathes. 
In factories like Volgograd Tractor. Communist activists are quietly recreating the party political committees banned by President Boris Yeltsin three years ago. 
"Since we're not in power, we're obligated to be more pre­pared," said Aparina. 

II JAPAN 


Rape trial threatens US-Japanese relations 

~y MARl YAMAGUCHI ASsociated Press 
NAHA 

Three American service­men accused of raping a 12­year-old schoolgirl return to cpurt on Monday in a case that has enraged Japan and threatens the U.S.-Japanese military alliance, 
W11The September rape trig· gered huge anti-military ral­lies on Okinawa, which is bost to. about 27.000 of the more than 45,000 U.S. troops stationed in Japan. 
At the trial's opening ses· sion on Nov. 7, Navy Seaman Marcus Gill. 22, of Woodville, Texas. pleaded guilty to raping the girl. 
Marine Pfc. Kendrick Ledet, 20, of Waycross, Ga. and Pfc. Hodrico Harp, 21, of Griffin. Ga., acknowledged that they helped plan and carry out the attack. 
Prosecutors said the girl was forced into a car by the trio when she stepped out of a stationery store where she had been buying a school notebook. Then she was dri­ven to a remote sugar-cane field, raped and dumped from the car, they said. 
At Monday's session. offi­cials said the court would hear character testimony from military superiors of the accused -and possibly by family members of Ledet and Harp. 
In the same courthouse. closing arguments were set. Monday morning in the case of Marine Pfc. Joshua Hill, who has admitted to blud­geoning an Okinawan woman to death in May. Verdicts and sentencing were expected at later ses­sions. 
Amid the outcry, American officials have taken some steps to try to mollify the Japanese. 
They have agreed that in some cases they may turn over servicemen accused of crimes more quickly to Japanese authorities. 


When you stay awake in class, you tend to learn more. (Unless you have an uncanny talent of learning through osmosis.) So don•t let fatigue get in the way of your A, Revive with Vivarin®. 
One tablet has the same amount of caffeine as ab~ut two cups of .coffee. J!~"'3~T~·.. 
AdI • I f H thl I lbl f y •re up for 1t 1 ~ ~ 1 _.,, · 1n 1t s JUSt as sa e. ey, any 1ng IS poss1 e, 1 ou . ""~"H'0;;;..,:,~~?'''':': ..~ 
\j_LL..JL.t:"''"''i'"'"''''"'"''''"'···" 
a"''SmtthKime Beecham 
©1995 ~Consumer Heslthcare 

Revive with Viva ri n~
Use only as directed. 






VIEWPOINT 
Monday, December 4, 1995 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
John Lucas 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Elizabeth Regan Joseph Riley 
Newa Editor ......•..•...................... David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michad O'Hara Ad Design Manager ...................... Jen Mackowiak Spona Editor ............................. Mike Norbm Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent F...d.icor ......................... Krista Nannc:ry Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Controller ...................................... Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of rhe University of Norre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. lr does nor necessarily rellecr the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurardy and ohjccrivdy as possible. Unsigned edip roriab repr<«nt rhe opinion of the majority of the Ediror-in-Chief. Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Pho[Q Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. CommC"maric~. letrcr!l. and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of 1he Norre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through lerrers is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Spurts 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Phnln 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary· s 631·4540 Fax 631-6927 Duy Editm/Prnduction 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu General 1nfonnution 631· 7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

GARRY TRUDEAU
• DOONESBURY 
W6'V~ EJEZN ON THeLAM 700 L.ONG. V&GAS IS A PLAC8 
a!H&RE W/3 CAN GeTUET, 5eT­
7U3 [}(}WN, MAK£ A GCXJ/? 
t!f£ FOI< OUR5131.-Vf3Sl 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"what is not clear is not French." 
-Antoine de Rivarol 
• Goo 'N LIFE BY JULIE FERRARO 
~----~~~-------------------------------------------, 
Make a difference this holiday 
"All work and no play ... " 
No one can deny that college students work hard -often at more than one project in a 24­hour stretch (classes, part-time job, athletics, eornmunily service, etc.). And, with exams com­ing up, that work load increases. 
Is it tlw storm before the calm? After a week of bruin-teasing knowledge-cramming, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will have a month to relax. recover and celebrate any ap­propriate holy days. The 
ehnnrs or relief will rise of other ways to be of above the harsh, iey winds. • assistance. Keep up this 
It is that time of year contact, as much as possi­when Christmas decora­ble, throughout the year. tions and attitudes runneth Julie Of course, some people over. In these northern lo­will reject offers of kind­eales, snow adds to that ness out of pride. It does fnstive atmosphere. Also Ferraro take a bit of tact to be help-in abundance is the spirit ful without being pushy. of charity -giving from our That is a skill we all have abundance to those with to learn, though, be it in 
less. so their holidays will bn warm, sheltered, healthy and well-fed. 
t\ftnr all the hard work of this school year's first semester, it might be quite relaxing and restful to nurture one's individual spirit of chari­ty. It eun almost lw fun, thinking of ways to re­ally help others above and beyond the usual 
• "money in the Salvation Army can" or donations to a ehureh." 
Why not, once you make the trip home. investi­gate llw possibility of "adopting" a family (or sonw senior citizens) for the season? Go all out: take the children to choose a Christmas tree (if it suits tlw family's tradition), help deeorate it, pro­vide a few gifts for beneath the tree and a whole­some holiday meal. Then, don't just disappear on Dec. 26. 
Continue to interact with this family. If part of their difficulty is an unemployed member of the household, use the knowledge gained from your own life experience to assist with a job search, or help that person find a skills training program. If it is just that there are too many bills and too little money (haven't we all been there at some point?) maybe contribute a bag or two of gro­
ceries each week, or think 
preparation for a job inter­view or simply in our day-to-day dealings with our fellow inhabitants of the planet. Knowing how to say a kind word is just as important as actually saying it. 
Don't let fear of offending someone stifle chari­table efforts during the upcoming break. As you drive, fly or bus home -after the grueling torture of exams -cheer yourself with the thought that you can spend a month revitalizing your mind, body and spirit and, perhaps, help others do the same. 
It could make all the difference. 
Julie Ferraro is secretary of the Freimann Life Science Center. 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOfl 

Talk raises important issues about WW/1 actions, morals 
Dear Editor: 
A recent Observer article summarized a talk by Wilson Miscamble concerning the bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. A number of important issues were raised by Miscamble's talk, regarding both history and morality. 
One critical historical question raised by the talk is whether the use of the atomic bomb was necessary militarily to bring about an end to WWII. This is, of course, a hotly debated topic. In reflecting upon it, it seems imperative to realize that arguments against the necessity of the bombings are not at all new, but in fact represent the position taken by high-ranking U.S. military officers both before and after the bombs were dropped. General Dwight Eisenhower, for example, has written that in his view "dropping the bomb was completely unnecessary" to bring about an end to the war, arguing that the Japanese would have surrendered with­out the bombings and without a U.S. invasion. Similarly, Admiral William Leahy, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs _of Staff at the time the bombs were used, argued after the bombings that "in my opin­ion the use of this barbarous weapon at lliroshima and Nagasaki was of no material assistance in our war against Japan." 
Others, including General Douglas MacArthur, General Henry Arnold, and Air Force Major General Curtis LeMay expressed sim­ilar views. In a study commissioned by the U.S. government after the war, the US Strategic Bombing Survey concluded that "Japan would have surrendered even if the atomic bombs had not been dropped ... and eyer\ if no invasion had been planned or contem­plated". Documentation of all of these statements along with extensive helpful commentary can be found in a recent book by Gar Alperovitz entitled The Decision to Use the Atomic Bomb: The Architecture of an American Myth. 
Admiral Leahy in his comments on the bombings cited above goes on to address the moral implications, arguing that in drop­ping the bombs the United States "adopted an ethical standard common to the barbarians of the Dark Ages." These moral issues I believe are crucial. According to some, such as the leadership of the Roman Catholic Church, indiscriminate bombings such as that represented by lliroshima and Nagasaki (and earlier indiscrimi­nate fire-bombings) can never be morally justified, for they violate the very core of just war principles. Pope Paul VI, for example, referred to the atomic bombings as "a butchery of untold magni­tude" ( World Day of Peace Message, 1976). 
In one of the strongest statements of the Second Vatican Council, the pope and bishops state: "Any act of war aimed indiscriminate­ly at the destruction of entire cities or of extensive areas along with their population is a crime against God and man himself . .It merits unequivocal and unhesitating condemnation-. ( Gaudium et Spes, 80) This view has been repeatedly reaffirmed by Pope John Paul II and the U.S. Catholic bishops. 
JOHN SNIEGOCKI 
Depanment ofTheology 

~-------------------------------,.....---~----~· 

VIEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, December 4, 1995 
• lETTERS TO THE Emii.Hi 
Funding the cost ofa college education 
Dear Editor: 
The future graduates in last year's freshman class will receive two documents when they complete their studies -a hard-earned diploma and loan papers with an average debt of $13,600 per student borrower. 
Helping students manage such a large debt is a big reason why the Clinton Administration created the direct-lending program. 
Direct lending is simple: college student aid offices issue federal loan funds directly to students. Direct lending eliminates a lot of the red tape from the old, guaranteed loan system. Whereas students waited six weeks or more for ian checks under the old system, the typical turnaround in direct lending is three or four days because funds are transmitted electronically. Now in its second year of operation, direct lending is being hailed by more than 1,350 participating colleges and almost two million student borrowers as a hit. 
In Washington, D.C., however, a program that works is not necessarily the same as a program that lasts. why? In this case, take a look at who is for direct lend­ing and who is opposed to it. 
Who favors direct lending? Bush Administration offi­cials first proposed it. The clinton Administration and a bipartisan majority in the Congress passed it two years ago. The colleges enrolled in the program report that it is working well, as evidenced by the fact that none of them has asked to get out. The roster of schools includes many of the nation's leading universi-
QUESTIONING ROLE OF WOMEN IN CHURCH 

Females in priesthood 
.... <.;:"~:=::::!::::;. 
DearEditon 
This letter is in response to the Nov. 15 edition of Inside Column entitled "A . conflict of Church and faith." First off, Margee Husemann needs to be commend­ed in her questioaing of and exploration of the Church's teaching on Male-only ordination. For it is through this type of serious dialogue and reflection of the Church teachings, that we come to a deeper and more appreciative understand­ing ofthe rich tradition that we all share. 
According to the Catechism of the Catholic Church "through baptism, we are freed from sin and reborn as sons of God; we become members of Christ. are incorporated into the Church and made sharers in. her mission.'' IIusemann.has been led to believe that this sacrament giveswomenthe "right" to pursue ordi. nation. Simply put. the gift of baptis1ll does Mt grant a person the "right" to priesthood and the consecrati<>n of the Eu.chari!!t>Th~facti~~ weare not dealing with a question of "rights"· at alL For no one has. the "right~' to ordin:ation; mate or female. If this were the case. the Cl).urvh would not have any say in wb,p becomes priests. Often candidates are excluded from the priesthood due to health, intelligence or nioralliving. No, a call to the priesthood comes from the Church and not from the person. 
The column also mentions that "the idea that Jesus selected only men for the priesthood is ridiculous. Jesus never ordained any disciple -male or female." Pope John Paul II answers this charge in his apostolic letter on "Reserving Priestly Ordination to Men Alone. He states" The church has always acknowl­edged as a perennial norm her Lord's way of acting in choosing the twelve men whom he made the foundation of his Church (Rev21;14). These men did not itt fact receive only a function which could thereaft.E!rhe exercised by any me.tfibel'< of the church: rather they were specifically and}ntimately associated in the ~~i sion of the lncarnate Word himself." (Matt lO;t~z,s.; 28:16~20; tvl.k $ 16:14-15). These are powerful word~:~. su~ll ~c:ripture, and :n~e taken seriously. · · . ..• . . . ·. . . . . . 
Next, the point is made that "the words of Christ are filtered through the Cut• rent hierarchy in the form of translators." fi;. this a suggestion that o:ur current form of scriptures and the Bible is not the inSpired word of God? This is a dan~ gerous accusation to make. Perhaps a bigger question at stake is one faith an.d not just the question of ordination. · 
On another issue, the author asks the question"am I supposed to believe that I am somehow less of a disciple because of my gender?" The answer to the ques­tion is an emphatic "absolutely not." One just has to look at Mary, the Motber of God. She is the bearer of God. the Immaculate Conception, and is "full of grace." Mary is the most elevated creature the world has known. Certainly, the female gender does not relegate someone to being a ..lessor disciple." 
Next, the point is made that neither male or female "deserve to be excluded from a vocation because of their sex." Well, I don~t know what is "deserved" in a life freely given to us by God, but I. do know that men and women are different! As a male, I am excluded. due to my biology from the vocation of mother. Hard as I may try,lobby, or demand my "right," I will never be able to hold the voca­tion of a "mother." And what a gift I am excluded from! I dare say, no man will ever know the incredible and supernatural phenomenon of giving birth. It is more important to realize-who we are. and live in accordance to how God made us. 
Lastly, the author makes the point that ''Vatican II broke tradition by such innovations as a non-Latin mass. The time has come to change again." The best argument against the ordination of women is that it has never happened before. Quite simply. the Pope does not feel he has the authority to make a change and contradict scripture and the tradition of the Church. In response to the Vatican n argument, no other change would have been more controversial than the ordi~ nation of women. There was already precedence for a vernacular liturgy, per­manent deacons. and even married priests. But there is no precedent for the ordination ofwomen. · 
In conclusion, it is encouraging that people like Margee IIusemann are taking a closer look at their faith and grappling with often controversial subjects. It is through open dialogue and communication that we can come to realize the beautiful gift that God gave us in his Church. 
BRETLEWIS Senior FishecHall 
ties, such as Ohio State University, MIT, Rice University, the University of Colorado, and the University of florida. 
Students love it. one student told Rolling Stone that it is "the best thing since microwaveable brownies." direct lending means no more trips to the bank, no more long lines to turn in loan papers. Students also like having a choice among several repayment options, rather than having a bank set their payment. Borrowers can choose to pay less in their first years out of school, when they are likely to earn less. Borrowers can set their monthly payment as a percent­age of their income, a big help for those entering low­paying public service work. 
Direct lending also gives a break to the taxpayer by eliminating expensive subsidies to the financial institu­tions. According to a member of the Federal Reserve Board appointed by President Bush, "Aslong as it is necessary to provide a profit to induce lenders to guar­antee student loans, direct lending will be cheaper." 
So who opposes direct lending/ The guardians of the status quo -the banks and various middlemen agen­cies that earn billions of dollars in profits while assum­ing virtually no fmancial risk. that's because the guar­anteed loan system gives them a federal guarantee to replace their money if a borrower defaults. 
When it gets down to it, it's as simple as the old adage: "Follow the money." The bankers are threat­ened and their lobbyists have made clear tomembers 
Learning from sins of the past; 
Making the future world better 
Dear Editor: 
Slavery is one of the oldest institutions in the world. Historically, the losers of battles and the poor were the main vic­tims of slavery, not a single race or cul­ture. Since we are all so fond of history, let's review slavery in the past. one of the earliest groups to have slaves were the Chinese. We know that the Chinese had slaves as early as 19th century 
B.C.E. Almost every Asian state prac­ticed slavery. Slavery was also used in the Middle East and Africa. Europe also had its fair share of slaves. Before white men came to the New World the Indians of North America, and in South America 
had slaves. The owning of slaves was not con­fined to whites, blacks or any race. Everyone had them. In Africa, slave trad~rs were encouraged to come. The African slave hold­ers would then sell the slaves they owned in exchange for goods. In most cases, whites did not enslave Africans. They were already in the condition of being slaves. In some Mrican states more than 50 percent of the popula­tion were slaves, and whites did not own them.. Whites were not the only people to trade slaves as goods. Arabs, Asians, and others were in the market of trading slaves. Christians and Muslims fought each other and often the prisoners would become slaves.. Portions of every European group of people were enslaved. 
have fallen victim to slave raids, and then traded like stock. Celts, Slavs, Jews, Greeks, Romans, Germans, etc., were all enslaved. Obviously. not only whites enslaved people, and blacks were not the only victims. All of our races had slaves and were slaves at one time or another. We have all been victim­ized.. and we are all guilty. 
The second thing I would like to point out is that we are all prejudiced. We all stereotype and make presumptions about others without even knowing it. We all have beliefs as to what are the basic attributes of a race or group of people. We do not base these ideas. on fact, but on opinion. Some individuals can have no knowledge of a person or 
'None of us are 
above being prej­udiced, because we all are. The goal is not to let your prejudice stand as a wall between you and people who are dif­ferent. I believe if you sat down with somone of another race or reli­gion you would find you have a lot in com­mon. I don't let race become a barrier. I have many friends because of that...We have many similarities, and many differences.' 
Many cultures 
of congress that they expect to be protected. As one student loan official from Bank America recnetly put it to the American Banker magazine, "Obviously, my goal would be to get rid of direct loans." 
Their victory is now in sight, with the help of a Congressional majority that is putting special interests ahead of the public interest. One indication: congress changed federal accounting rules only as they apply to direct lending. a move that made the guaranteed pro­gram appear on paper to be cheaper. The leaders of the majority in Congress say that they are prepared to shrink direct lending or kill it outright, thereby forcing almost two million student borrowers back into the old system. And when there is no competition. the incen­tive to simplify the system for students and families will disappear. 
The congressional campaign to kill direct lending is just one small piece of the enormous budget plan that congress is expected to vote on next week. To this point, the special interests have not had any trouble making their voices heard. Their high-powered lobby­ists have been able to protect their access to congress. 
Now it is up to students to protect their access to col­lege. Stand up for yourselves. Stand up foryour future. stand up for public investment in education. We will stand with you -and we will prevail. 
RICHARD RILEY 
U.S. Secretary of Education 
group of people. and they will still for­mulate opinions. These opinions (preju­dice} can be good or bad ideas about the subject. A simple example is the com­mon belief of Notre Dame students that all Holy Cross students are "wanna be Domers," when in fact, they have no clue. I know I do not want to go to Notre Dame. But overall, prejudice is bad because it limits our chances to experi­ence a full life in this world. Malcolm X was a good example of someone who saw the "light." He went to Mecca and discovered Elijah Muhammed and the Nation of Islam was wrong. After his pilgrimage he said. "In the past, yes, I 
because of that, many of which are black. white, Cuban, Mexican, Chinese, Japanese, Arab. African, Muslim. Mormon, Jewish and so on. We have many similarities. and many differences. I take the differences as a chance to learn and the similarities as a chance for friendship. 
One final note. Without the wrongs of the past, some people's lives would undoubtedly be better. The past has ... made us what we are today, for better or worse. Hopefully we can learn from the past and not make the same stupid mistakes. 
GREG COX 
Holy Cross College 
have made sweeping indictments of all white people. I never will be guilty of that again-as I know now that some white people are capa­ble of being brotherly toward a black man. The true Islam has shown me that a blan­ket indictments against blacks." Insight is a dangerous thing. Malcolm learned that when he was gunned down leaving the Nation. 
None of us are above being prejudiced, because we all are. The goal is not to let your prejudice stand as a wall between you and people who are differ­ent. I believe if you sat down with someone of another race or religion you would find you have a lot in common. I don't let race become a barri­er. I have many friends 

~j 




omens occerr 
Irish capture first national championship in history of program 
By DAVE TREACY Sports Writer 
CHAPEL IIILL, NC 

No one k1ww exactly what happened. In the blink of an nye. Cindy Daws made soccer history. 
It happened too fast for Portland goalie Erin Fahey, stuck to the wrong side of the goal post, shifting a wall of Pilot players. It even happened too quickly for Daws to be sure tho ball was in the goal. 
But Daws' quick restart of a fr~~e direct kick finalized a dream for the Notre Dame womnn's soccer program. 
A long day and a long season culminated in a single moment of vietory, a 1-0 triumph in the final game of tlw 1YY5 NCAA tournamnnt, to givn Notre Danw its first national champi­onship in its night-ynar history. 
"I didn't sen thn goal," Irish coach Chris Petrucelli said. "At thn end of tlw (sneond) over­limn pnriod. wn had a free kick ovnr on the left sidn that !lolly (Mantlwi) took. She came back into tlw huddle during the brnak and said if we get a free­kick. let's try to take it quick, 'eausn the keeper is setting up tlw wall and we should have a chanen to finish it." 
l'ntnu~elli may not have seen 
sccCHAMPS I page 4 

The Observer/Mike Ruma The scoreboard (above) says it all--the Notre Dame women's soccer team has captured its first national championship. The players (below) prove it by hoisting up the trophy. 

History made with semifinal win over UNC 
By JOE VILLINSKI Assistant Sport> Editor 
CHAPEL IIILL, N.C. 
On a magical night last Friday in Chapel llill. the women's soccer team was smiling. 
In that night's contnxt, those smiles rnflected Notre Damn's historic 1-0 vic:tory ovnr ninn-time defending NCAA c:harnpion North Carolina that providml tlw Irish with thnir second straight shot to daim thn national title. 
In a larger sensn. thnir joyful expres­sions told so much more. 
Thos•~ nxprnssions could be located hoth hnl'om, and certainly after, Notre Damn hatHh~d tlw Tar lleels only their tenth loss in 17 ynars. 
"I c:ould toll heforn the gamn that we wern ready to play," Irish coach Chris l'etmenlli said. "We met at thn hotel bnl'orn we earne out and everyone was smiling. And I said to myself, 'God that's a good sign."' 
It was a sign of confidence that only comes from going through painful times and never wanting to experience those feelings again. Adversity only helped to strengthen Notre Dame's resolution heading into the game. 
"We're fortunate there were 24 peo­ple who believed we could win," Petrucelli added. "And they all sat in our locker room before the game. Beyond those 24, I don't know how many thought we could win. These guys knew they could." 
In front of the largest crowd to wit­ness a women's college soccer game in the United States, North Carolina encountnred some adversity of their own. After entering the game 25-0, the Tar Ileels could not overcome the tnnaeious Irish defense, and lost for only the second time in 157 games at Fetzer field. 
"There was a lot of emotion out there," North Carolina forward Debbie Keller said as she tried to light back the tears. "I think their hearts beat us tonight." 
It was the type of heart that added to Notre Dame's rich -school history of legendary victories. The superlatives of excellence, defining North Carolina women's soccer, that could put this win in perspective, are far too long too list. 
Let's just say the Tar heels did not attend the NCAA championship game for the first time since 1982. 
They will not be participating because the Tar heels could not put the ball in the net all night. 
Well, maybe not their net. The Irish still haven't scored on North Carolina, but that simply doesn't seem to mat­ter. 
After being unable to score on the Tar Heels in their previous four meet­ings, Notre Dame was credited with an own goal at the 19:21 mark of the first half. North Carolina freshman Cindy Parlow headed the ball backward into her own net from the right wing after goalie Tracy Noonan came off her line to retrieve the ball. 
"On the initial cross, I cleared it out." Parlow said. "But then they (Notre Dame) put it back in, and I was fighting for the header and unfortu­nately it went the wrong way." 
The goal was set up by an Irish free kick as Parlow hit the initial clearing attempt right to Notre Dame co-cap­tain Cindy Daws. Daws then headed the back on goal for Parlow's fateful 
see HISTORY I page 4 

• Jock Strip 
Irish always had a reason to believe 
B
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. r---------, efore the women's soccer team left for Chapel Hill. Michelle McCarthy professed a sim­ple idea. It was an idea rooted in faith. In her soft, genuine manner, McCarthy thought that all the Irish would need to do to win a nation­al championship was believe. This belief entailed believing in themselves and in each other, no matter what happened. As long as this faith existed, the irrelevant critics could not stand in their way. And in a blink of an eye, on a lazy Sunday afternoon at Fetzer Field, Cindy Daws affirmed McCarthy's ultimate belief. Always thinking quickly, Daws used the old drop­and-kick to surprise Portland goalie Erin Fahey in sudden death. At that point, everyone became a believer. Most of the crowd at Fetzer could not help but smile after witnessing how much the Irish accomplished in two games. For the players, however, Daws' goal did not make them believers. It made them champions. They were winners of their first NCAA national title which the· Irish believed they could attain as they closed out the season with eleven wins. It was the time before those eleven wins that aided Notre Dame in reaching this plateau. This period involved a few doubts that went through the players' minds after two losses and two ties. The belief that the goal could be l'ullil\ed never left them, though. "We went through so many hard times that I knew it was going to come together," said a jubilant McCarthy. "We have too many great players and we believe in ourselves too much to let things like that get in our way." As these faithful words 11owed from her lips, McCarthy flashed a smile that could illu­minate the Golden Dome itself'. "It just feels awesome,"·· she said elatedly. "I can believe it, but I don't know if its hit me yet." Never one to let a person know how she feels on the field, the whole campus should have been thern to see her expression oiT it. After all. Prime Network can only show so mueh. The moments after a championship win like this reveal a glimpse of the human spirit. For it is this spirit that drives everyone in pursuit of a goal. that at times, appears unreachable. When the goal has been reached and one can feel it, as the Irish can today and for years to eome, it is the soft side of this spirit that is a joy to behold. Afterwards, Daws talked poignantly about the type of spirit present on this year's national championship squad. ller words re11ected a history that can put this win in perspective. "I think that we've really been through a long and hard year," she remarked. "There's been a lot of doubts and people who stopped believing. I was one of those people who was on the edge of' quitting. At the beginning of the year, I was on the verge of red-shirting." 

see BELIEF I page 4 


page 2 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA Monday, December 4, 1995 
I 





Clockwise, from left: Jen Renola (top, left) makes a leaping save i North Carolina. Renola, with her teammates, {above) strike a Portland. (Above, right) Sophomore Kate Sobrero races for the 
first half Sunday. (Below, far right) Irish coach Chris the North Carolina game. Senior Michelle McCarthy {below, ri~ the midfield, baffling UNC and Portland defenders with her ball the Championship Tournament, as defenders Sobrero, Julie 
I to stop a Tar Heel direct kick. Cindy Daws {below, left) national championship game, as she alertly put a direct (below, far left) fights for position against Portland's Wynne 
II 

-~------------.--~-----~------"'!""!'----------...·~-----~~--------­
Monday, December 4, 1995 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA page 3 


II II 

I 








II 


· Monday, December 4, 1995

page 4 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA 
• Jock Strip Irish hang on tight to ride out emotional roller coaster 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. 
So many emotions ran rampant through my head throughout Notre Dame's 1-0 victory over North Carolina on Friday. 
Surprise and pride when the team shed their warm-ups to reveal the green uni­forms of inspiration. 


Pure excitement from the own-goal that  Dave Treacy  
I couldn't professionally release while  Sports Writer  
seated in press row.  

Nervous tension as the Tar Heels put shot after shot into the Irish box. Giddy anticipation of knowing that Carolina was begin­ning to panic. 
Butterflies the size of soccer balls colliding in my stomach as keeper Jen Renola jumped for and caught the last North Carolina shot to end the game, and keep the dream alive. 
Exhilaration as Notre Dame piled on top of each other in a display of team unity while the 'Heels fell scattered on the ground in solitude and defeat. 
I'm just a reporter taking a ride on the emotional roller­coaster. Imagine being a player. 
But Notre Dame was more composed as a team before, during, and after the game than Judge Ito was on the bench during the "trial of the century." 
Head coach Chris Petrucelli planted a seed into the minds of his players before the NCAA tournament. He empha­sized that the only goal Notre Dame should have is to win the national championship. And the only road to being the best is to take it one game at a time. As a team. 
This attitude got them through Wisconsin. Then UConn. And now, UNC. 
They weren't passive about playing the most recognized team in women's soccer history, the dynasty in Carolina blue. They just were determined to put forth their best effort mentally, physically, and emotionally, in every game. And it worked. 
"I could tell before the game that we were ready to play by two things," recalled head coach Chris Petrucelli. "One, at the hotel before we came out, they were all smiling, and I though to myself, 'God, that's a good sign.' 
"And then right before we came out on the field to warm up (before the UNC game), they were all singing 'Lean On Me' together. And to me, that meant that they were loose and they were excited to play." 
The levity of this win cannot be diminished by any player or coach, no matter how many times they'll insist that they "came to win the tournament, not to beat North Carolina." 
Notre Dame had never beaten North Carolina before. In seventeen seasons, the Tar Heels had only lost one other game at Fetzer Field. Losing in the semi-final round was the first time North Carolina had lost in an NCAA tourna­ment other than in the finals. The Irish needed to beat Carolina before they could as.cend to the top. 
Virtually no one expected the Irish to win but themselves. 
They did win. And the silence was deafening as the ca­pacity crowd full of Carolina supporters, the Tar Heel pep band, NCAA tournament officials, and regional reporters had nothing to say as the clock closed out the 1-0 Irish vic­tory. Notre Dame did more than beat UNC. They turned the soccer world on its ear. 
What made the victory more confusing to spectators everywhere was the own-gmiJ scored by NC's Cindy Parlow. Not to the Irish. 
"I would rather win ugly than Jose pretty," co-captain Cindy Daws said with confidence. Daws' presence in the Carolina box created the confusion that led to the own-goal. 
Excitement, anticipation, and determination oozed from every pore during the game. Looking into the wide eyes of the players during the 90 minute battle offered insight into the hunger of both teams. 
As the minutes trickled down, Notre Dame exuded confi­dence and poise, while Carolina grew frightened, presented for the first time all season with the prospect of losing. And the pain of the Tar Heel squad conflicted dramatically with the relief, pride, and sense of accomplishment shining on the faces of the Irish. They believed in themselves. 
Holding onto the emotional roller coaster can be a dan­gerous thing, but then again, it was a fun ride. 

History 
continued from page 1 
mistake. 
"I don't know exactly how far out I was, but I was trying to get it up into the box as far as pos­sible," said Daw~ of the header. 
Defender Nel Fetting tried to stop the winning goal, but could not get there before the ball slipped inside the right post. 
"Noonan came out and it just went the wrong way," Fettig added. 
After the goal, the gigantic number one on the Notre Dame side of the scoreboard was too immense to overcome. 
"As a coach 1 never get nervous when we go down a goal," North Carolina c.oach Anson Dorrance said. "Even when they scored, I didn't panic and the players cer­tainly didn't." 
As the Carolina surge came, the Irish leaned on each other. 
"Right before we came on the field to warm up, I had come on the field early and then went back to the locker room." Petrucelli narrated. "And they we're all singing "Lean On Me" together. To me that meant they were loose .and were excited to play. I don't think we showed any nerves which we did last year in the finals." 
The Irish's ability to carry a tune almost reflected their ability to carry each other past a num­

Cha01ps 
continued from page 1 
the goal, but he put forward a pretty accurate synopsis. 
Michelle McCarthy, who fin­ished her playing career with a superior effort, was fouled out­side the box by several Pilot defenders. As the Irish set up for the free kick and Portland attempted to create a wall in front of the ball, Daws recognized the opportunity before her. 
"When I set the ball, I just re­alized that the goalie was over setting up the wall, and some of the (Portland) players were turned around, so I just took a shot," Daws recounted. "I didn't even see it go in." 
The ball flew over the half-as­sembled wall and bounced once into the open net to Fahey's left. The Pilot keeper. along with everyone witnessing the game, was taken completely by sur­prise, and she was unable to get to the ball in time. 
"I was lining the wall up, trying to ask the ref if it was indirect or direct, but, of course, he didn't hear me because of the crowd noise," Fahey recalled. "Then she hit the ball and it went in." 
The triple-overtime goal was the only scoring chance convert­ed as outstanding defensive play and misfortune turned the best scoring bids away. 
"We had a· couple of good 

her of possible Carolina scores. The Irish leaned on each other during the game and also on the sacred green uniforms which they donned for the game. In the first half. a tireless defensive effort along with a crossbar kept the Tar Heels at bay. 
"One of the big differences in this game was that we were set­tled in our play," Petrucelli noted. "And we got a little help from the post. We got a little help from some green jerseys. We got a lit­tle help from the lady on the dome. We had everything going our way. It was just an unbeliev­ably determined effort by some pretty tough kids." 
Some of that help manifested itself late in the first half when Carolina forward Robin Confer fired a rocket from 30 years out that hit the crossbar and landed gently in front of Irish goalie Jen Renola. 
To describe the effort as lucky, however, is to undermine the entire team defense. 
"I felt confident in the way we were playing in the back." de­fender Kate Fisher said. "We were all staying with our man tightly. 
And what more can be said about the defense. Sweeper Ashley Scharff made sure every ball was taken out of dangerous waters. Kate Sobrero and Fisher provided the physical play, letting Carolina know the Irish were not going to be pushed around. Last. but not least, Julie Vogel stuck to 
chances earlier on that we should have put away," Petrucelli said. 
"I had some good shots out there, but I just couldn't finish on them," Pilot forward and national team member Shannon MacMillan added. 
MacMillan, Portland's leading scorer. had the weight of Portland's dreams on her shoul­ders, and Kate Sobrero in her face. The Irish defender stymied MacMillan, allowing the Pilot five shots in 85 minutes of play. 
"As coach told me, her definite strength is running at people," Sobrero said. "I felt that I should stay on her back. I just tried to stay as close to her as possible." 
The best offensive chances for either team were stopped by the keepers. In the second half. Shannon Boxx hit a wide-open Manthei on a cross fifteen yards out in a one-on-one situation with the Portland goalie. Fahey ran out to meet Manthei, who attempted to send a sliding shot over the keeper's head. Fahey slid and deflected the shot with her body, saving the sure goal. 
Six minutes into the first over­time, UP's Kimberly Engesser received a cross from midfielder Michelle French with no one but keeper Jen Renola in front of her. French had time to wind up and shoot, but sent the bullet right into the waiting hands of the Notre Dame netminder. 
"The toughest save I had was on Kim Engesser in the first over­time," Renola said. "She had Parlow all night as the star fresh­man had only .one open look at the Irish net. 
"Early in the game we talked about planting a seed of doubt in their head," Petrucelli said. "We wanted them to think that maybe there was a chance that they would get beat. At one point we saw how the seed was growing. With about 35 minutes left, I turned to the bench and said, 'They're not going to score."' 
Part of Petrucelli's confidence was due to who he had in the net. Renola made four saves, but more importantly, controlled the box. Twice during the contest, Renola was labeled by charging Tar Heels players, desperately trying to tie the game. Even though Renola watched balls fly over the crossbar like overhead airplanes, those Carolina attempts would be in vain. 
"Jen played great," Petrucelli commented. "That's not the first time it's ever happened. It's always a consistent effort by Jen Renola. She's the most underrat­ed All-American I've ever seen. There's nobody I'm more proud of today than Jen." 
North Carolina never did score. Petrucelli was right. 
The Tar Heels could only watch as Renola leaped to grab a last second shot to seal the win. 
After that, they could only watch Notre Dame leap for joy. 
Those Irish smiles were almost as big as the victory they had just won. 
some time and some space. It wasn't a great save, but it was kind of a scary moment." 
There weren't many of those moments for Renola on the af­ternoon, which can be attributed to the team's defensive prowess. The Irish defense started with the forwards and ended with the sweeper in a concerted effort to stop the Pilot offense. But the back line protected Renola. 
"Ashley Scharff, Kate Sobrero, Julie Vogel and Kate Fisher. They did a tremendous job defensively," Renola said of the defense which helped her shut out Notre Dame's last six oppo­nents. "It wasn't just them. We played great team defense and that's what we knew it would take to win." 
If there ever was an evenly matched final game, it was between last night's opponents. In the tournament's 17 year his­tory, Sunday's contest was the first to go into an overtime peri­od, and the only 1-0 decision. 
"A difficult thing about soccer is that somebody has to lose," noted Clive Charles, head coach of the Pilots. "Neither team deserved to lose today." 
"It was a · great effort." Petrucelli agreed. "There were two champions out there today." 
There were two champions.. but only one won the game: the ones in the green uniforms. 
"In the end, it was a big-time goal from a big-time player," Petrucelli closed. 


Belief 
conrinued from page 1 
Those doubts ·eventually turned into success for the co­captain and the team. 
"I think we all kind or'got together and we all realized our goal was to win the nation­al championship." Daws said. "And the only way we were going to do it was together. From that point on, when we made that commitment to each other and to our goal. there was no turning back and that was evident. 
"We just got better and bet­ter. Not only on the field but off. Just the way our team was, it's a 100% turnaround. A Jot of people need to get credit for that like the people who didn't even dress and we're still out there practicing every day. It was a team effort and we did it... 
Hey Cindy, what about that goal? "Anybody could have done what I did," she added. "I put 
it away and this is the best thing our team could have ever done. We've come a long way." 
Indeed. the Irish have come a long way since those tough times. It was these tough times that allowed the doubters to crawl out of the closet. 
Open any newspaper in Chapel Hill after the Carolina upset and the headline read, "Luck of the Irish." 
"I think the tendency is going to be to write about our loss," North Carolina head coach Anson Dorrance said of Friday night's game. "But I would hope you would congratulate a tremendous winner and sup­port all the positive things they did." 

So maybe the North Carolina press didn't listen. They would still doubt the Irish victory. 
Oh well. That's the press for you. 
The only real opinions that mattered belonged to the 24 people in the Notre Dame lock­er room before each game as head coach Chris Petrucelli noted after the Carolina victory. 
Maybe the most unshakable faith belonged to the man who offered those thoughts and his coaching staff. In six short years, Petrucelli has raised a program from obscurity to national prominence. It is a program that operates with class and deserves uothing Jess than the best. 
And that's what the 1995 women's soccer team repre­sents today. 
The best. 
Who would have believed it? 
Well, you know. 


ACCE,NT .. 
Monday, December 4, 1995 page II 
• JUST ANOTHER SINGLE DADDY• •• AMOVIE REVIEW 
Scorcese hits the jacl{pot with "Casino~ 
G)J A/-: C7J · 
.2/MY~/~. J--ed-0?, 
IZ,Ic/:7tJ-/bl3 ffJ-ff 

By SCOTT BOZIK 
Accelll Movie Critic 
out of four 
**** 

S
ynopsis: The latest gem in Martin Scorcese's directing crown, "Casino" is a redemptive return to the seedy world of organized crime pop­Ilia ted by a gangster aristocracy with iyrwble roots. However. "Casino" repre­sents a relative departure from recent mob rruwies in that its narrative unfolds umidst a backyround consr.ructed by the best depiction of underworld Las Vegas since Francis Ford Coppola's "Goclfather." 
"Casino" afiorcls its audience with the opportunity to witness the triumphant ascensions and tragic falls of a tri­wrwirate ofpotent actors who contribute fJI'rformances of near monolithic dimen­sions. A film that adeptly creates the atmosphere of its subject matter's envi­ronmt•nt. "Casino" documents the ardu­ous transition of power in Las Vegas, when casino ownership passed from the brutal and overt hands of the traditional mafia to the more discretely criminal and institutionalized ones of corporate America. 
D
addy: Thern might not exist, at !Hast whem I am concerned. a more rewarding experience than watching a movie that you have most anxiously and eagerly anticipated the arrival of. Often times, we complete the first stage of this double movement, only to have our preliminary hopes dashed on the crunl rocks of a lilm that horribly fails to satisfy even our lowest expecta­tions. On othnr oecasions. we might lind ourselves pleasantly surprised by llieks of inlwrnnt beauty that we happen to stumble upon absent of preconceived notions of doing so. While this second instance is no less of a boon in its own right, I still contend that nothing is more pleasing than finally enjoying a movie that we have waited in such a faithful fashion for. Such is the case with "Casino," a lilm that is easily the best Daddy has witnessed this year--and pos­sibly the best in the first half of this hitherto barren decade. 
"Casino" delights both the intellect and the aesthetic. It ·is one of those increasingly rare movies that has been blessed with an intriguing plot and the actors and director to bring it vividly to life on the silver screen. From the opening sequence (complete with a savvy "body floating in the air" scene, the likes of which not seen since the opening "The World According to Garp") that sets the table for the story line's flashback for­mat, to the tempo­ral return to the present that marks the film's resolution. "Casino" is a visually stunning a n d narra­
t i v e I y 
w e I I ­endowed cinematic selection guaran-· teed to delight 
efforts might bring you some very im­
pressive vernal accolades in '96. Undoubtedly there are some who by now must be wondering what exactly could foster such obsequious flattery on my part. Specifically, what is it a b o u t ·Martin ) Scorcese t h a t makes me as giddy as a young school lass? In order to address these queries it is imperative that I first make you all aware of the fact that I love mob movies! Few other films have the subject matter and the viscer­al puissance to make D a d d y want to abandon his insu­lated life of acad­emia for an exis­
t e n c e 
spent in the pursuit of illicitly gained 
all those Robert DeNiro gives an Oscar-caliber performance in Martin wealth. Scorcese's new gangster flick, "Casino."
open to Movies 
its sub­tleties. 
Martin Scorcese, Daddy's personal favorite director, reunites Hobert DeNiro with Joe Ptlsci and adds Sharon Stone to this already sassy mix in the cinematic adaptation of the latest work from the author, who in writing "Wiseguy," also created the literary impetus for "Good Fellas." Like this past Academy nominee for best pieture, "Casino" finds it impos­sible to disappoint and promises to pro­duce its own cornucopia of possible Oscar destinations. Dust off your fire­place mantles Martin, Hobert, Joe, and Sharon. It is quite possible that your 
about the mafia encourage me to adopt a Sicilian persona and acquire a band of tough, reactionary and under-educated thugs. I ligure. hell. if Pesci can do it, even I and my diminutive physical stature stand a chance to do the same. 
However, my insatiable hunger for gangster stories (not those of the Dogg Pound variety) does not allow me to stomach such ignominious platters as served by crappy movies like "Mobsters" or "Wise Guys." I am only inspired by good movies and this verity is the reason I worship Martin Scorcese. This ere-alive genius frequently brnatlws new life into a genre that is anything but nascent in nature. 

There are few directors left that can make a movie both interesting and simultaneously visually striking as well. The days of Orson Welles appear to be long past and the now archaic art of establishing a balanced middle-ground between story and cinematography is sadly seemingly lost as well. Scorcese's ability to usn various camera angles and vantage points whPn combined with his almost ethereal use of lighting in certain circumstances make him the virtual Tsar of Hollywood that he is 
One need only to see the scene in "Casino" where the audience witnesses the detonation of a car bomb through the eyes of Sam "Ace" Hothstein (DeNiro) to divine the meaning of this assertion. ·This same gift is what still separates directors like Coppola and Scorcese from pretenders to the throne like Tarentino Opie. The rest of this community is just always seemingly two steps behind Martin Scorcese. 
Now a word about the acting! Pesci and DeNiro once again form a potent double entendre; and, surprisingly, Sharon Stone proves to be a capable thespian in "Casino" as well. Despite these stunning performances, "Casino" simultaneously provides a wealth of tal­ent on its periphery. This movie is not only jammed packed with line ~,tcting, it is bursting at its very seams with future stars waiting for their opportunities to emerge. Furthermore, although I can­not yet concretnly confirm this eon­tention, I believe that "Casino" even comes complete with a brief cameo done by "Dirty Dozen" leader Lee Marvin! All in all, the quitn eclectic cast and the flair of Scorcese combine to make "Casino" the most important movie you can see this year. 
I would now like to bid a hearty farewell for '95 and wish the devotees of this column the most merry of Christmases and the happiest of New Years. Hemember, the yuletide season brings with it the arrival of not only a fat man in red, but also the return of the Fat Man who lives in our hearts. When next we meet, I will be accompanied once again the rotund one, John Tiberius Zach. 
You can hardly wait... ... 
• 'DAYS OF OuR LIVES' UPDATE 

Tony goes kamikaze to frame john 
By CHRISTINA FTICSAR AND ERIN KELSEY Days of Our Lives Corrcspond,·nrs 
Y
es, "Days of Our Lives" fans. Tony is finally dead! 
llow did it comtl about you ask? Well, it all began at Peter and .ltlnnifer's wedding. Although Jack made a good run at attompting to stop the ceremony, they exchanged vows with some of Salem's finest looking on. Allerwards, evtJryone moved on to the reeeption area. where John got a eall from a disguised Tony. "Tony" procoded to tell John that he was responsible for Fathor Francis's heart attaek. An angry .John then ran to Tony's suite where they had an intense argument. Thanks to Tony opening all of the balcony windows, Mickey, Maggie, and Kristen heard the whole thing. 
John decided the argument was getting ridiculous and left. Unfortunately, he took tho ser­vants' door and no one saw him. Meanwhile, the three who were outside ran to the other door, which was strategically locked. Tony pretended to yell at John, to make everyone think they were still arguing. He then pushed a button on his pen, his gun fired, and Tony went down with a bullet near his heart. 
Needless to say, everyone but Marlena thinks John did it; evon Kristen has doubts, Tony stayed alive long enough to condemn John as his killer. If it wasn't for doctor-know·all Mike, who worked all night in one of Peter's guest rooms. Tony would have died without saying good-bye to Kristen. 
Stefano had more memories of himself. the Lady-in-white, and John. The Lady-in-white does not want su~f::mo to get his memory back and seems to be crying even more than usual. (Someone should call Charter!) She also grabbed Tony's diary as he tried-with hoses and IV's intact-to toss it in the fire. So far. Tony is tl.te only one she has revealed herself to. Unfortunately, he's dead. But, if the look on his face was any indication, Salem is in for trouble. In fact, just 

before he croaked, he whis­pered the word "beware" to Kristen. 
While at Aremid, Hope had a run-in with Jude, who snuck into her hotel room and pre­ceded to call her "Babe" and rub her underwear with his face all night. He held bock from attaeking the "high soci­ety snob" because Sean D. was there. However, he did catch her later and bring her to a love shack in the woods, but she managed to get away and run to Bo. Jude ran ol'f, but vowed revenge on Hopo. 
Back in Salem, Will lived and a proud Austin stood by Sami as she cried with Joy. Sounds lovely. ·Actually, it was a heinous sight. Carrie decided she wanted Austin back. Unfortunately, Austin decided that it was better if they stayed apart so he could devote all of his time to Sami and Will. All it took was one breast-feeding and he was hooked. 
Did anyone else think those bridesmaid dresses were abso­lutely repulsive? Also, we hope you didn't miss the special ap­pearance by Leeza Gibbons on Monday. We did a little research, and a paternity tost can be done on Will at any­time. Watch out Lueas! 
That's it for the semester, folks. Keep watching over the break but don't fret ifyou miss a day or two--the "Days" update will be back with the scoop in .January. 
~­
I' 
I page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, December 4, 1995 
I
I ... I 

Miami stretches winning streak to five 
Associated Press 
TORONTO 

Alonzo Mourning scored nine points during a 13-point fourth­quarter run Sunday night, and the Miami Heat stretched their winning streak to five by beat­ing the Toronto Raptors 112­94. 
Mourning, 12-for-12 from the free-throw line, was perfect in a 13-point first half, making all four shots and all five free­throw attempts. He was held scoreless in the third quarter but scored 15 points in the fourth, helping the Heat stop the Raptors' four-game home winning streak. 
Miami led 28-23 after one quarter and 54-46 at the half. The Heat was a perfect 13-for­13 from the free-throw line until Kevin Willis missed the second of two with just under a minute to play in the half. 
After the Raptors pulled even at 64 on Tracy Murray's basket with 6:08 to play in the third quarter, Billy Owens scored six of the next seven Heat points to put Miami up 71-64. 
Oliver Miller, who scored a season-high 29 points, made three straight shots to pull the Raptors even at 72 with just under two minutes to play in the third quarter. But the Heat went on a six-point run and closed out the quarter with a 78-74lead. 
Kevin Willis had 13 points and 14 rebounds for the Heat, while Owens finished with 19 points. 
Damon Stoudamire, who played just over 47 minutes, be­came the first Heat opponent to reach double figures in assists, dishing off 15. He added 13 points. 
Ed Pinckney continued his strong rebounding with a team­high 12 to go along with 12 points. 
Trailblazers 93, Magic 82 
PORTLAND, Ore. 
That big sigh of relief whooshing out of the Pacific Northwest is from Randolph Childress. 
The rookie from Wake Forest finally got his big chance, and he made the most of it, sinking four of six 3-pointers and scor­ing 18 points Sunday night as the Portland Trail Blazers handed the Orlando Magic their second loss in as many nights, 93-82. 
The Blazers had an incredible 67-31 advantage in rebounds but still trailed much of the game until they used a 15-0 run to take an 84-71 lead on Clif­ford Robinson's 15-footer with 6:46left. 
"I felt great about tonight's game. I felt great about the minutes. I felt great about coach Carlesimo leaving me in the game," Childress said. "He just supported me, even when I made some mistakes down the stretch. He didn't say much about it. He just patted me on the back and said 'Keep going.' 
"I really, really fed off of that. It kept me going. Honestly, it felt like I was in college again." 
Childress, who had averaged just seven minutes per game and shot 27 percent from the field in the first 15 games, said his confidence had eroded as he watched game after game from the bench. 
Childress said things got so bad he met with coach P.J. Carlesimo about a week ago. 
"I asked him if he had given up on me, and he said, 'No, it looks like you've given up on yourself,"' Childress said. 
The talk motivated Childress to keep at it and wait for more playing time, where he could comfortably get into the flow of a game again. asked 
Childress played eight min­u~es and made two 3-pointers in the second quarter. 
Strickland, who was just 3­for-1 0 shooting, went to the bench with his fourth foul with 
6:43 left in the third quarter. Childress then came back and played the rest of the way. 
Strickland said his bruised right shin would have kept him out of the rest of the game any­way. 
Robinson scored 22 and Aaron McKie 17 for Portland. Dennis Scott and Horace Grant scored 20 apiece for the Magic, playing their second of four road games in five nights. They began the trip with a 109-106 loss at Sacramento on Saturday night. 
"I don't remember being beat that bad on the boards," Or­lando coach Brian Hill said_ "They're a big team, working hard on the boards, and they're one of the best rebounding teams in the league." 
Anfernee Hardaway scored 15 points but was only 6-for-18 as the Magic shot 38 percent, including 4-for-23 from 3-point range. Nick Anderson was just 1-for-11. Scott was 7-for-22. 

Hardaway is 12-for-39 in the last two games. 
"I felt good tonight, and it just wasn't working for me," Hardaway said. "I got good shots, open shots, but they weren't dropping for me, or for any of our 3-point shooters." 
Hill couldn't believe that Portland took 21 free throws in the fourth quarter, while the Magic didn't take any. 
"Until the last six minutes, we 
-were making every effort to get to the basket," Hill said. "Penny, in particular, couldn't get a call." 
Portland's guards outscored their better-known Orlando counterparts 50-26. 
Orlando is 13-4 but just 3-4 on the road. The Blazers had lost six straight to the Magic. Portland's last win against Orlando was on Jan. 7, 1992. 
The Magic's 82 points were a season low. The Blazers won despite 23 turnovers. Orlando had just eight. 
Lakers 104, Pacers 96 
INGLEWOOD, Calif. 
Elden Campbell snapped a 91-91 tie with four straight points in the final 2:20 and Nick Van Exel scored 26 points Sunday night, leading the Los Angeles Lakers past the Indiana Pacers 104-96. 
Antonio Davis forged the tie for Indiana by making the sec­ond of two free-throw attempts with 2:40 to play. 
Campbell and Van Exel then took over. Campbell hit two free throws and a basket and Van Exel scored five straight to put the Lakers ahead 100-91 with 
37.2 seconds remaining. 
Van Exel led six Lakers in double figures with 26 points. Cedric Ceballos had 19 points and a career-high six steals. Campbell finished with 16 points, while Eddie Jones had 15 in his first start of the sea­son as replacement for the injury Anthony Peeler. 
Dale Davis led the Pacers with 21 points. Reggie Miller, who sat out most of the second quarter, was held to eight points-18 below his average. 
Duane Ferrell scored Indiana's first four points of the fourth to cut the Lakers' lead to 82-81 with 8:38 remaining. Ferrell then was called for goal­tending on a basket by Ceballos that kept the Lakers up 84-81. 
Indiana took its first lead, 85­84, on two straight baskets by Dale Davis with 6:39 remaining. But Eddie Jones restored the Lakers' advantage to 86-85 on a jumper, and they never trailed again. 
The Pacers committed key turnovers down the stretch, in­cluding two 3-second violations in the final 7:39. 
Indiana went 1-3 on its four­game West Coast trip, losing three straight for the first time this season. The Pacers have won just three times in 22 games at the Forum, the last time a 114-87 victory on Jan. 3, 1992. 

The Observer accepts classilieds every business day from 8 a,m, to 3 p,m, at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Cenrer. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p,m, All classifieds musr be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces, 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 

'''30 SPRING BREAK'" SHOPPING DAYS LEFTI Don't procrastinate! NOW is the time to guarantee the lowest rates and best hotel selection for Spring Break, After Jan, 1st, prices will increase and hotel choices will be limited, Leisure Tours has pack­ages with air to South Padre Island and Cancun, FREE info: 1-800­838-8203, 
Hey, don't forget about Spring Breakll You want to know about prices and how you can save $30 before Jan, 1 call 234-3396 Ask for Christina_ Call don't wait 
Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise! Early Specials! 7 Days $2791 Includes 15 Meals & 6 Parties! Great Beaches/Nightlife! Prices Increase 11/21 & 12115! Spring Break Travel1-800-678­6386 
Spring Break! Panama Cityl Early Specials! 8 Days Oceanview Room With Kitchen $129! Walk To Best Bars! Key West $259! Cocoa Beach Hilton $169! Prices Increase 11/21 & 12/151 1-800-678-6386 
Cancun & Jamaica Spnng Break Specials! 111% Lowest Price Guarantee! 7 Nights Air From South Bend & Hotel From $419! Book Early! Save $100 On Food/Drinks! Spring Break Travel 1-800-678­6386 

ILOST & FOUND I 
JACKET LOST forest green winter jacket with hood (Eddie Bauer); last seen: Club 23 on Wed_ Nov_ 29; please call: Nancy 273-6508 
LOST: 1 knit glove, light blue with 
pink stripes, call Kristin at X3534_ I lost my BLUE PULLOVER JACK­ET at Senior Bar last week_ 

If you have seen it it would be greatly appreciated if you could return it 
$$$$$$$$$$ 

Call Greg Sinnott at 4-2055, 
FOUND: 1 Large gold hoop earring bet Nieuwland & Lafortune, Call x3252 
LOST: silver earring with black stone & French hook in SOH, Please call Kristin at X3534, 
WANTED 

' • ' FREE TRIPS & CASH ' ' ' Find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with America's #1 Spring Break compa­ny! Sell only 15 trips and travel free! Choose Cancun, Bll)lamas, Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL NOWI TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAV­EL (800)95-BREAKI 
Two genial guys looking for rides 
home to Eastern Mass_ over 
Christmas break, Will split 
gas/tolls/etc, If you can only take 
one of us home, that's fine too, 
Please call Tom x1173 or Marty x3419 as soon as possible. 
NEED PERSON TO EDIT 1/2 IN, 
VIDEO TAPE FOR PUBLIC ACCESS (local cable TCI) SHOW, 
NICE HISTORIC PIECE. 
WILL INSTRUCT_ 
289-2906, 
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING' Positions are now available at National Parks, Forests & Wildlife Preserves. Excellent benefits + bonuses! Call: 1-206-545-4804 ext N55843 CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING­Earn up to $2,000+/month working on Cruise Ships or Land, Tour com­panies, World traveL Seasonal & full-time employment available, No experience necessary_ For more information call 1-206-634-0468 ext C55842 
FOR RENT 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR ND 232-2595 
One person furnished apt 35 miles from campus Must see Call after 6:00 232-0355 
Furnished house for rent Seeking 2 female roomates, 1 mile from ND campus, 3 bedrooms, basement, fenced in yard, new stove and !rig, AvaiL Jan 2, Call219-923-7246 
~-F_O_R__SA_L_E__~I 
SPEAKER: Liner Phase Studio Monitor.,Jike new, Great for parties & bands, $250 OBO, Jeff 233­2460, 
Samsung 4 head VCR-Bought this school year, 8 month warranty left $125, Call John @ x 1070, 
.................--------------------******•** ... 
Hey Ski Buffs __ _ 
ND Ski Team T-shirts Only $10! 
Call today and receive your shirt folded for no extra charge! Wow! Potter @ 232-2955
............................... 
The Dating Handbpok-2002 Things to do on a Date, Fun, Silly, Romantic, Unique-132 pages, $8,95 to Goshen Publishers, 422 W, Lincoln Hwy, Suite 121, Exton, PA 19341 
2 ROUNDTRIP AIRLINE TIX­
INDY TO SARASOTA, LV, DEC 22, RETURN DEC, 31, 288-0702, 
85 Jimmy 4x4 Low miles great cond, $4500 273-4762 
81 Ford Mustang, T-tops, chrome wheels, rebuilt, straight-6 engine, tint Runs very welL $1950 O,b,O, Call Isaac at 63~-1668 
PUT SOME PUNCH IN YOUR WEAK SYSTEM with my lnfiniti subwooler­needs satellite speakers Jim X1581 
TICKETS 
Basketball tickets for sale_ All games, Call 284-5502, 
~~__P_E_Rs_o_N_AL
__~ 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center 
We're open lor your conveniencelll Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight FrL: 7:30am -7:00pm SaL: Noon -6:00pm Sun,: Noon-Midnight 
(closed home football Saturdays) LOST: 1 knit glove, light blue with pink stripes, call Kristin at X3534, 
0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0 
QUALITY COPIES, QUICKL Y!l! THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
0D0D0D0D0D0D0D0D000D0 
DON'T YOU CARE ABOUT YOUR HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT?!? 
I thought SO, , , , Unique gift ideas which you are bound to like, Check it out! Not sold in stores! Call 634-2113, 
Carson, you need to learn how to do cement mixers_ Student Activities is still accepting applications for: 

STEPAN BUILDING MANAGERS 
BUILDING SET UP CREW 
SOUND TECHNICIANS 
Pick up applications at 315 LaFortune, Deadline Wed,Dec 6, For information call631-7308, 
THE LAST ISSUE OF THE OBSERVER WILL BE ON WEDNESDAY, DEC, 6, 
YOU HAVE UNTIL 3 PM ON TUESDAY TO PUT IN YOUR CHRISTMAS CLASSIFIEDS TO YOUR FRIENDS AND TO WISH THEM GOOD LUCK DURING FINALS, 
Needed: Live male entertainment for a 21st birthday party! Call 273-4959 immediately I Will pay$$$! 
See what happens when you leave the ironing board in the middle of the room? 
bring back our parking spot! it's cold outside and we work too hard as it is_ 
a relationship, i think, is like a shark, you know, it has to constant­ly move forward or it dies, and i think what we've got on our hands here is a dead shark_ 
i'm tired, i'm stressed, i'm bored, and the first semester of my senior year is almost over. maybe being 
tired isn't so bad_ 
Kory,baby Why did u shave?I?Lur NDH admirer :( 
ADOPTION 
A wonderful home awaits your 
baby, Happily morried, financially 
secure couple will give much love, 
Expenses paid_ Call Margaret or 
Peter at 800-529-8386_ 
Lisa is a queen and all men want 
her. 
ADOPTION: Loving, financially secure professional couple wishes to adopt Your baby would be cher­shised and loved in a warm and happy home, Let us help you, We can provide medical, legal, counsel­ing, approved living expenses, Call Cindy or Stan at 1-800-752-1636, or attorney Glenna 1-800-241-5384. ConfidentiaL 
I need a ride 2 Iowa City for X-mas Jim X1581 
I need ride for Xmas 2 E, PA, NJ, or DE via rt80/PATnpk; help drive & pay; call Jared 0508 
To Whole Lotta Lovin': You will be missed, Your loss has created a void in our lives_ You were and will always continue to be an inspiration to us aiL Your spirit lives on, Rest in peace dear fish, -2nd floor St Ed's 
Hey Nort-Ounce for ounce, boy, you need to learn to drink like a woman, Hope you had a nice night under the table, -M, 
Kiddo, 
Don't be discourged by the lack of a column, call it production prob­lems, 
-An Illinois Farmer 
Carrie-You are the cutest!! 
Boo-hoo. My last night here! I'll 
miss this place and all the bundles 
of money I make here_ 
Honey -II was a great weekend, 
Thanks for being so good to me! 
Don't kill me, but I told Cam what 
we did while he was sleeping_ :-) 
The wedas are lour in number. 
Leezer -hope you cleaned the 
room up after the wild weekend, 

Monday, December 4, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS. 
• CoLLEGE FooTBALL 

SWC bids farewell to illustrious past 
By JAIME ARON Associa!cd l'r•ss IIOUSTON 
Afttlr H 1 years, four national champions, five llnisman Trophy winners and several hundred All-Americans, Southwest Conference football is a memory. 
The ending came Saturday with two games. although the eml had bmm in sight for years. long bnforn lnague officials signed the papms. 
The league was great during its early days when there was nothing better for a Texas kid to do than grow up and play football at a Texas college. Tlwn the schools bngan cheat­ing to get those kids. got in trouble for it and those players began migrating out of state. 
Teams began losing games 
and tarnishing its national 
image. Tnlevision no longer 
was intnresttld in the one-state 
league and neither were many 
fans. Attendance plummeted, 
although the growth of profes­
sional sports was a major con­
tributor. 
Befitting thn way the confer­
tmcn stumbled to its grave, the 
sw(: eouldn't even get thll 
fanlwell party straight. 
Instead. of history showing 
the final game having been 
lwtwnen Ttlxas and Texas 
A&M, tlw conferenr.(\'s two 
winningnst programs, the last 
line on the all-time list of 
games played will show: 
Houston IH, Hiee 17. 
Fittingly. it should have 
Texas' I f>-f> victory over Texas 
A&M for tlw final eonference 
title. 
By losing, Hiee gave the con­
fermlce convenient bookends to its four-score and one year ledger. Hice also lost the first game, 26-0 to Baylor on Oct. 8, 1915. 
Hice's refusal to give up the historical claim of having played the last game was typi­cal of the jealousy and bitter­ness among teams -especially aimed at Texas and A&M ­that splintered the SWC. 
And it was hard to swallow some of the farewell SWC memories played out at Hice Stadium Saturday with things like "WAC ''96" painted behind both end zones and names of the schools in nice's new league lining the facade between the upper and lower decks. 
Houston, the league's youngest member, also spent Saturday looking ahead more than behind as people entering the stadium near the Cougars Alumni booth were handed a flyer entitled "What Is Conference USA?" to explain its future league. Curiously, the names of the other 11 C-USA schools were not included. 
Still, there were plenty of 
memories of the good old days 
Saturday. 
There was the "Last SWC 
Coin Toss" featuring at least 
one notable representative 
from all current league teams 
except A&M and one more 
from Arkansas, a final fun half­
time show by the Hice band 
and a postgame "Turning Out 
The Lights" ceremony during 
which the scoreboard went 
blank. the entire stadium got 
black and a fireworks show. 
was set to music. 
Then it was all over. 
But it was good while it last­
ed. 

-Bears face Lions 

By HARRY ATKINS Associa!ed Press 
PONTIAC, Mich. These are the games NFL junkies live for. 
The Chicago Bears against the Detroit Lions. Erik Kramer against Scott Mitchell. Barry Sanders against the world. Make or break time for a berth in the playoffs. It doesn't get much better than this. 
The Bears (7-5) snapped a three-game losing streak last week with a 27-24 victory over the New York Giants. The Lions (6-6) kept one of their patented late-seasons rolls alive with a 44-38 shootout win over Minnesota. extending their win­ning streak to three games. 
"If we win the rest of our 
games. we've got to be in," 
Lions coach Wayne Fontes said. 
"No question about that." 
Maybe. Maybe not. In a race 
thi£ tight, a 10-6 record might 
not be good enough. Stranger 
things have happened. 
"I think that it's just at this 
time of year, anyone who has a 
chance with six or seven wins 
at this point of the season, it all 
turns into one-game seasons, 
and that's where our team is 
right now," Chicago coach 
Dave Wannstedt said. 
For the Lions to keep win 
tonight's game, they will need 
Scott Mitchell to continue the 
play that has produced the No. 
1 offense in the NFL. The Lions 
have rolled up 4,580 yards and 
35 touchdowns. Mitchell has 
passed for 3,150 yards and 23 
touchdowns. 
Kramer also has turned the 
Bears into an offensive ma­
chine. Chicago is averaging 27 
points per game. Kramer has 
two short of Sid Luckman's sin­
gle-season club record of 28 in 

Breaking Away for the Holidays? 
Ride 




II~ITFn I I~AO
---..__ -~ --.._. -._ ,_,
......,.. ,..---...... , ·~ 
Your convenient connection to the Chicago Airports United Limo leaves campus ten times daily for O'Hare and Midway Airports. Board at the Bus Shelter on Notre Dame Avenue next to the Morris Inn. 
Arrive O'Hare
leave Campus 
Arrive O'Hare 
Arrive Mi way 

Airport 
Airport 
Airport
Notre Dame 

Upper level
Bus Shelter 
International Terminal 
All Airlines 

All Airlines 
TerminalS 
Via Connection to 
Upper level 
Tri State Coach 

5:55AM
4:00AM 
6:10AM 
6:10AM 
6:00AM 

7:55AM 
8:10AM 
8:10AM 
8:00AM 
9:55AM 
IO:lOAM 
IO:IOAM 

10:55AM
9:00AM 
ll:IOAM 
I 1:10AM 
lO:OOAM 

l1:55 AM 
12:10 PM 
12:10 PM 
I 2:00AM 
1:55PM 
2:10PM 
2:10PM 
1:00PM 
2:55PM 
3:10PM 
3:10PM 
2:00PM 
3:55PM 
4:10PM 
4:10PM 
4:00PM 
5:55PM 
6:10PM 
6:10PM 
6:00PM 
7:55PM 
8:10PM 
8:10PM 

Fares to Midway or O'Hare from Notre Dome: $28 One Way I $52 Round Trip Tickets con be purchased from our driver or through your travel agent. For further information coll254-5000 
Your Airport Connection •All Day, Every Day 
1943. 

"Kramer is very confident now in what he's doing," Wannstedt said. "I don't think you can measure what that confidence means." 
Sanders needs 96 rushing yards to become the lOth NFL player in history to rush for 10,000 yards. This will be the 100th regular-season start for Sanders, who ran for 120 yards and two touchdowns two weeks ago when the Lion~ defeated the Bears 24-17 in Chicago. 
"You've got guys performing at a higher level than I think they ever have in the past, and obviously the quarterback is doing a very good job and Barry Sanders is Barry Sanders," Wannstedt said. 
In Detroit's traditional Thanksgiving Day game, Min­nesota frequently stacked eight defenders at the line of scrim­mage. The idea was to stop Sanders. 
But the plan fell through 
when Mitchell burned the 
Vikings secondary for a club­
record 410 yards and four 
touchdowns. 

Brett Perriman, IIerman 
Moore and Johnnie Morton all 
had over 100 receiving yards in 
that game as Mitchell was mas­
terful at spreading the ball 
around. 

"I think Minnesota found out, 
as other teams, that if you let 
them throw for 300 yards, 
they'll throw for 300 yards on 
you," Wannstedt said. "That's 
the scary thing. 

"I think we've got to be smart 
and mix it up as far as how we 
try to slow them down a little 
bit. You're not going to stop 
them. You just hope you get 
them to punt a couple of 
times." 

Neither team plays defense 
very well. 

Please Recycle The Observer 

Free Pregnancy Test Referrals to Support Agencies Confidential Counseling 
Call 234•0363 
(24 hours} 
SOUTH BEND 
417 N. St. Louis Blvd. 
(Convenient to Campus) 
page 13 

•NHL 
Stars hand Avalanche first home defeat 

DENVEH 

The formula for beating the Colorado Avalanche on their own ice should have required a team other than the defen­sive-minded Dallas Stars. 
The Stars, tied with Hart­ford with the lowest scoring output in the NHL, stepped out of character for one night and beat Colorado 7-6 Sunday night, the Avalanche's first home loss of the season. 
Colorado, which lost its third straight overall, was the last team in the NHL to be unbeaten at home. The Avalanche fell to 8-1-2 at McNichols Arena. 
!'I would guess it would be the formula that we would use," Dallas coach Bob Gainey said. "Healistically, I thought our team would have to win with three or perhaps !'our goals and to be able to hold them to two or threo goals." 
Instead it took a seven-goal explosion and Kevin Hatcher's goal with 3:52 to play to earn Dallas its second road win in nine games this season. 
"It was a game where the last shot was going to win it," Colorado coach Marc Crawford said. "Unfortunately. we didn't get the last shot." 
Brent Gilchrist had two goals for the Stars, who are unbeaten in their last four games. 
The game featured four shorthanded goals, two by each team. Claude Lemieux and Peter Forsberg scored for the Avalanche while they were a man down, while Gilchrist and Mike Modano did the same for the Stars. 
"We were confident that opportunities would come, and they did." Modano said. "Although this wasn't the place we thought it would happen." 
Andrei Kovalenko scored two goals for Colorado. 
...... 

page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Monday, December 4, 1995 
• TENNIS 

Pete Sampras magnificent as U.S. reclaims Davis Cup against Russia 
By DAVE CARPENTER 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 

Pete Sampras was Peter the Great against Russia, leading the U.S. team to the Davis Cup title by defeating Yevgeny Kafelnikov on Sunday for his third victory of the weekend. 
Sampras, urgently needing a quick victory because of an ever-tightening hamstring, downed Kafelnikov 6-2, 6-4, 7­6 (7-4), ending the match emphatically with an ace down the middle, and giving the Americans their first Davis Cup title since 1992. 
The victory gave the U.S. team an insurmountable 3-1 lead in the best-of-5 final. Andrei Chesnokov closed the final margin to 3-2 with a 6-7 (7-1), 7-5, 6-0 victory over Jim Courier in a match played only as a formality and shortened from a best-of-5 sets to a best­of-3. 
It was the second straight year of disappointment for the Russians in the final in Moscow's Olympic Stadium, despite a sometimes boisterous crowd of 14,000. The Russians were seeking their first cup. 
The Russians had installed a red clay court last month espe­cially to slow down the power­ful Sampras, whose record on clay is unspectacular. 
But the world's No. 1 acted as if it were his favorite surface throughout the weekend. He beat Chesnokov in a grueling five-set match Friday that saw him collapse with leg cramps afterward and teamed with Todd Martin to overwhelm Russia's respected doubles team in straight sets Saturday. 
He saved his best for last on Sunday, calling it his top per­formance ever on clay. 
"I think the Russians were looking at me as being the weak link on the slow red clay," Sampras said. "But I played some good tennis when I had to." 
He was brilliant for much of the match, cracking cross-court and down-the-line winners, blasting 16 aces and dominat­ing Kafelnikov. 
"Pete played wonderfully today, and he didn't leave any chances for me," Kafelnikov said. 
Sampras lost only four points in his first eight service games, reeling off 11 points in a row during one stretch of the sec­ond set as his cheering U.S. teammates, including Andre Agassi, leaped to their feet to cheer him on. 
Kafelnikov, now 0-4 lifetime against Sampras, was reduced to waving helplessly as winners smoked past him, shaking his head in disgust. At one point, after muffing a volley, the 21­year-old Russian belted a ball into the upper deck in frustra­tion. 
The third set turned out to be critical, however. Stretching his sore hamstring gingerly during changeovers, Sampras began chasing down fewer balls and it was clear he might not be able to win a long match. 
"If I would have lost the third, I think I would have had the energy to keep on playing, " Sampras said. "But how effective I would have been, I don't know." 
Trailing 3-1, Kafelnikov began firing winners from the baseline and coming to the net more often, gaining confidence as he broke Sampras' serve to tie the set 3-3. 
The two exchanged service breaks and headed into a tiebreaker, where Sampras' serve-and-volley strength pre­vailed as he won three points to go up 5-2. On his second match point, he drilled an ace down the middle and thrust his hands into the air, then was embraced by his teammates. 
Sampras admitted that the thrill didn't compare with win­ning Wimbledon or the U.S. Open, which he did this year. But it was particularly poignant to win it in a year when his long-time coach, Tim Gullikson, was battling cancer and Gullikson's twin brother, Tom, captained the Americans to the title. 
''I'm extremely happy for the team and for Tom," Sampras said. "I thought about Tom, and about Tim, during the match. It's been an emotional year." 
Kafelnikov, meanwhile, got a 2 hour, 1-minute lesson on the difference between Nos. 1 and 6 in the rankings. 
"I felt very calm today," he said. "I felt I could beat Sam­pras. But his serve was fault­less. If your serve is strong, it's two-thirds of success on any surface." 

We have started to take applications for next year. 
Furnished apartments­swimming pool-jacuzzi­tennis, volleyball, & basketball courts­24 hour laundry-shuttle bus­professional management. 
*Apartments available for your selection.* 
For more information cal/272-1441. 
•PGA 





,tPavin flawless 
that bedeviled the 12-player .field. The tucked pins and <menacing roughs forced Pavinem+ .to shoot high onto the greens, 
an approach he usually finds Open winner Corey Pavin uncomfortable, scored a S~stroke victory over "I didn't make. any mis­Zimbabwe's Nick Price in the'' takes," Pavin saidt"That's the Million Dollar Challenge golf ·only :way to· beat a guy like tournrunentSunday. . . Nick, to beat a field like this. 
P~vin earned the rtchest You just have to play solid and 
Pt~e.in golf .··$1mWion by@;;.~alt~or mistakes('firbtg a· 6~ttt}det pat 66 for a"' · Pavm went ahead on the first total of 12-under 276. The hole Sunday on the par-72, disappointed Price, who :won 7,597-yard Gary Player 

· 993. an~ w~s tied withy. Country Club course, his sec· 
·n: going into the final ·..·ond shot at the par-4 hole round, finished at 281 after a stopping a foot ftom the pin for 71,; · an easy birdie. 
...• (}l)rmany's two-time Winner. ·. But Price birdied the next LBernhard Laifger;ahd Scot-two h"oles for a one~stroke land's Sam Torrance, two lead. He maintained the lead strokes behind the ctHeaders ;;,when both players parred the · · g th~ final tQ~nd, fell ..>tourth hole and.~irdied the 
cqntfl~tion UJltlng ·the ;';;ruth. ·. ,,.,m:w. if"<. · (l .... · g nine~ Langer wound ·.· ·· Disaster struck Price at the up:third at 283, after a 71, par-4 sixth. He outdrove Pavin while TorraAce shot a 72 for .by 30 yards, but overshot the · ·· · .· .·. \if;~: . < . / it} green on his second shot and 
. rb::ail' Toin tehmarix" landed in sand. He chipped to carded a 73 for .287and was the edge of the green and two· fifth. .. putted for a bogey. 
';lfeel7'""'" ~an I say it;,..,.. I feel ............. Pavin, meanwhile, hit onto like a million dollars ..... before ''the green and sank a 10-foot taxes/' Pavin saiqjokingly. putt for a birdie and a one­
The winning paycheck in~ stroke lead. Pavin edged far­creased Pavin's earnings.for ther ahead with a birdie at the the year to $2,773,000. short seventh, followed by a 
He played steadily over the Price bogey on a missed 6-foot four days on a tough course putt at the eighth. 
Morris Civic Auditorium •South Bend December 8-9·10, 1995 FIVE PERFOOMANCES • Friday 8 p,m. • Saturday 2 p.m. • Saturday 8 p.m. • Sunday 2 p.m. • Sunday 7:30 p.m. EST 
See it hero just b«ore it goes to Chicago! Get Your Tickets Now While They Last! 
TICKETS

Call 219·235·9190 
$13.50 TO 

Box Office open Monruty through Friday 
$47.50 

10 a.m.· 5 p.m. Ch¥~ lo ViSit MnttiCwd AA'Ih • Gtoop SlUlk'ttl & ~ Cltlltn O~ounts 
A Broadway Theatre League Presentation 

Monday, December 4, 1995 The Observer • FOOTBALL page 15 

Down-and-out Redskins shock Cowboys 
By DENNE FREEMAN 
Associated Press 
IHVING, Texas Norv Turner did it again to the Dallas Cowboys. 
With a brilliant gameplan centered around !Ieath Shuler and Terry Allen, Washington used Turner's knowledge of his former employers to stun the Cowboys 24-17 on Sunday and sweep the two-game series for the first time since 1987. 
Allen seored two touchdowns and Shuler passed for another as tlw Hedskins (4-9) snapped a four-game losing streak. The Cowboys' loss to their former olTensive eoordinator prevented Dallas (1 0-:~) from clinching a playoff spot. 
The Hedskins beat Dallas 27­23 in the fifth game of the sea­son when Allen scored twice and gairwd 123 yards. 
In the third quarter, Shuler 

EARN CASH FOR THE HOLIDAYS 
S15 if you donate alone (first visit) 
+$5 with college i.d.(first visit) +S10 per person if you recruit someone to donate 
HELP US SAVE LIVES THIS HOLIDAY SEASON. 
HOURS: M-F 9-6 
SAT 8-5 

234-6010 
drove the Hedskins 83 yards for a touchdown that put his team ahead 14-10. Shuler hit tight end Jamie Asher with a 20­yard pass on the drive, Allen ran 13 yards and Shuler found Henry Ellard with a 10-yard TO pass. 
The Hedskins made it 21-10 after Stanley Hichard inter­cepted a pass by Troy Aikman and returned it 24 yards to the Dallas 27. Shuler hit Asher with a 12-yard pass to the 1 and Allen scored on the next play. 
Dallas got to the Hedskins 12 with 5:37 to play but Hichard caused Emmitt Smith to fum­ble. Smith picked up the ball at the goal but officials ruled he was out-of-bounds and the Hedskins were given a touch­back. 
Eddie Murray, a former Cowboy, kicked a 47-yard field goal with 3:30 to go to up the lead to 24-10. 
Aikman hit Michael Irvin with a 3-yard touchdown pass with 
1:48 left but an onsides kick failed and Washington ran out the clock. 
Allen got 98 yards on 25 car­ries this time and Shuler com­pleted 11 of 24 passes for 154 yards. 
The Cowboys led the Red­skins, 17-point underdogs, 10-7 at halftime thanks to a 37 -yard field goal by Chris Boniol as time ran out. 
Dallas had to punt the first four times it had the ball before putting together a 69-yard scoring drive helped along by a 21-yard pass interference penalty against Darrell Green on Irvin. 
The penalty put Dallas on the Hedskins 7 and, after an in­complete pass, Smith scored a touchdown, his 22nd of the sea­son. 
The Redskins retaliated with a 63-yard drive with Allen scor­ing from 2 yards out. Allen got 41 of the yards after a 20-yard Shuler to Brian Mitchell shovel pass got the drive .going. 
Smith rushed 21 times for 91 yards and Irvin caught 10 pass­es for 101 yards. Irvin set an NFL record with his 11th tOO­yard receiving game. 
Panthers 13, Colts 10 
CLEMSON, S.C. 
It's getting so the Carolina Panthers can count on big performances from their defense. On Sunday, they got something they didn't antici­pate -an assist from Indianapolis defensive back Derwin Gray. 
Gray's face~mask penalty set up a 38-yard field goal by John Kasay with eight seconds left, giving Carolina a 13-10 victory over the Colts and adding 


is Graciously Accepting 

Applications 
For the Following Positions: 
-Staff Announcers -Director of Personnel -Morning Show Hosts 
Forms and Information Available at the LaForTune Information Desk and the Haggar College Center Info Desk. 
(Applications due on Friday, 8 December) 






End. 
another chapter in the Panthers' stunning first-year run. 
Carolina (6-7) has doubled the record for victories by an expansion team. The 1961 Min­nesota· Vikings won three games, as did the 1966 Atlanta Falcons and the 1967 New Orleans Saints. 
"If people want to continue to act surprised by us, then let them," said linebacker Darion Conner, who led the Panthers with three sacks. "At some point, they're going to learn that our defense isn't ranked seventh in the NFL for noth­ing." 
The Colts played almost the entire second half without Jim Harbaugh, the NFL's top-rated passer. Harbaugh was sacked six times before leaving in the third quarter with what was originally diagnosed as a sprained right knee. He was scheduled for further tests Monday. 
His replacement, Paul Justin, also struggled, allowing the Panthers to win their fourth consecutive home game. 
Indianapolis (7-6) had a hard time all day with the Carolina defense, which recorded seven sacks, one better than the Pan­thers' previous high this sea­son. 
"We have the capability of going out and having some real big games," said linebacker Sam Mills, the NFC defensive player of the month for November, who began December with eight tackles Sunday. "This defense, there's no limit to what we can do." 
Carolina, which came in allowing an average of 307 yards per game, held the Colts to 200 -almost 118 below 
Houses for Rent 96-97 
•Furnished 

•Security Systems 
·~ashers/Dryers 
•4-8 Bedrooms 

Call Pat MeKelvey at 258-9996 

NEEDA]OB 
that fits your busy schedule? 
Memorial Home Care offers an excellent opportunity to 
fit work around your class load! 0 We're seeking energetic, 
responsible, caring people to join our KidKare child care 
staff. 0 As a KidKare registry staff member, you'd be 
"on call" to fill staffing assignments for area 
families in need ofchild care services. 
0 Evening or daytime, you 
accept assignments that 
meet your schedule! 0 
Flexible hours. 
Great pay. 
to find out more! 

Memorial 
Home Care~ 
17390 Dugdale Drive, South Bend, IN 46635 
their norm. 
"I've said all along there were going to be peaks and val­leys, and the play today was certainly a valley," Colts coach Ted Marchibroda said. "We couldn't run the football, couldn't throw the football, and you're not going to win too many games that way." 
The winning score was set up by a 17-yard punt return by Eric Guliford, putting the ball at the Indianapolis 43 with two minutes remaining. 
Kerry Collins' pass to Guliford on a third-and-live from the 38 fell incomplete, but Gray was called for a personal foul for grabbing Guliford's face mask as the pass zipped by the two players. 
"I guess my hand touched his face mask and the ref felt that was the appropriate call to make," Gray said. "It's really unfortunate, but I guess that's just the way it goes, and you've got to move on." 
The penalty, with 1:09 left, put the ball at the 23, and four plays later, Kasay connected on a line drive that was about 10 feet over the cross bar. 
Harbaugh, who took nu­merous hard hits in the pocket, came up limping after he was leveled from behind by Conner early in the third quarter. He was replaced by Justin, who had thrown just 19 passes this season. 
The Panthers also turned over the ball twice inside the Indianapolis 20. Guliford pulled up on a reverse and threw into double coverage in the Colts' end zone in the second quarter, a pass that was intercepted by Ray Buehanan. 
And Panthers tight end Matthew Campbell fumbled the ball away on the 19 to line­backer Stephen Grant in the third quarter. 
Carolina struggled early before scoring twice in the final 
4:15 of the second quarter to force a 10-10 halftime tie. 
Indianapolis, which one week earlier had built a 24-0 lead on its first four possessions against Miami, had another fast start against Carolina. 

page 16 


Orange 
continued from page 20 
the No. 1 team in the nation,in 1993. The Seminoles knocked off the Irish 23-16 in 1994. But playing around the holiday season makes the Seminoles an especially tough opponent. 
Florida State has played in 13 bowl games without a loss, including ten straight. He won the national championship with a win over Nebraska in the Orange Bowl in 1993. 
"You couldn't have picked a tougher team to play," Holtz said. "The last time Bobby lost a bowl game, he was eligible to be drafted by the armed services." 
The announcement was the culmination of a busy weekend for the Irish players, who spent much of the weekend hosting recruits. Friday night was the annual football banquet, during which Leahy was named the Lineman of the Year and Derrick Mayes was voted the team MVP for the second consecutive year. Marcus Thorne and Mark Monahan were named student-athletes of the year, and Richard Rolle was given Nick Pietrosante Award. 
Linebacker Lyron Cobbins, fullback Marc Edwards and quarterback Ron Powlus were named captains for the 1996 squad. 

game, and our girls just did not do this," said Wood. "Bethel

Kinder may stay home for bowl 
By MIKE NORBUT 
Sports Editor 
Notre Dame tailback Randy Kinder may miss his second straight bowl game because of a violation of university policy. Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz did not go into detail about the problem. 
"I can't tell you anything about that," he said. "I don't know enough about it. Any comment would have to come 
If you see sports happening, call The Observer at 1-4543. 
Catholic New Testament 
Douay-Rheims-Mac or Windows 
$19.95 + S&:H, download from http:[/www.w_ebpres.com/douay E-Ma1l: douay-mfo@webpres.com 

I5804 Grape Rd. • Indian Ridge Plaza L__ 277-7946 
By KATHLEEN POLICY SportS Writer 
After a troubling weekend at home in the Roundball Classic, the Saint Mary's basketball team can only look to the future and try to improve. The Belles lost two straight, finish­ing a last place fourth in the tournament. 
The team battled Huntington Friday night, losing in the final seconds 66-65. 
"The difference between win­ning and losing that first game was a bounce of the ball or a missed defensive play, but all the pieces were there," said Head Coach Marvin Wood. 
The rest of the journey trav­eled downhill. The team's shooting percentage fell in 
The Observer/Brent Tadsen addition to their efforts in their 
Coach Lou Holtz and the Irish are Orange Bowl next game against Bethel 
bound. They will face the Florida State Seminoles. College, 56-48. 

"Execution is the name of the 
from the university." 
Kinder missed the 1995 Fiesta Bowl because of a knee injury, but returned for spring practice. He has been a major contributor to a strong Irish running attack, but recently lost his starting job to freshman Autry Denson. 
Saturday was Notre Dame's first practice in preparation for the bowl game. Kinder was not in attendance. At Friday night's annual football banquet, Holtz 
-----~---~ ---~__...,-----.. 
Monday, December 4, 1995 


Belles struggle through the Roundball Classic 
just took us to task with better hustle and positioning. We diddid not announce Kinder, the not have the timing or the posi­team's leading rusher with 809 tion that we needed to executeyards, as a letterwinner. 
properly." While Kinder is still enrolled 
at the university, his status on 

• SPORTS BRIEFS 
the football team is uncertain. Kinder and fellow running 

1995 lnterhall Football • Last chance to return equipment is
back Robert Farmer were 

Dec. 7 from 3-5 p.m. at theinvolved in a disciplinary case last year, when they were trailer by the dugout at Jake Klein field. $5 will be charged if
accused with assault by a 

equipment is not returned.
female Notre Dame student. The two were cleared of 

Ski Team -Those interested charges. 
in joining must sign up and pay 
Bethel's coach, Sonya Martinez, felt that rebounding was the key to their win. 
"We boxed out in the second half and did not allow [Saint Mary's] to get the second shot up," said Martinez. 
The Saint Mary's players feel that improvement is neccesary before the team's play comes together. 
"We went in spurts, but in order to win we have to play for the full forty minutes," said senior guard, Michelle Limb. 
Limb finished with four assists, as did freshman center Sheila Sandine. Sandine had nine points and six rebounds. 
"The game was a learning experience," Sandine said. "Hopefully it will help us in the future." 
The team's next contest will be with Concordia at 7 p.m. on Tuesday at the Angela Athletic Facility. Concordia lost to the Belles last year due to an array of injuries. This year the Belles anticipate a close battle with their opponents due to Concordia's tallest player (6'4) and their great recruiting this year. 
a tryout fee by Thursday at 6 
p.m. by the LaFortune Info Desk. Call Matt at x1859. 
Cballenge~U-Robics -The last day of classes will be December 6th. The 12:15 classes will run through December 15th. 



Semester Break Work 
$10.25/start 
•1-5 
work week program 

•All 
majors considered 


•Looks great on your resume 
•Scholarship opportunities 

•Interview now-start after finals 
•Will secure summer position 
Now accepting application5: 
Indy (317) 767-5416 • Ft. Wayne (219) 471 6113 • Evansville (317) 428-6675 Merrillville (219) 769-2352 • Muncie (311) 289-7345 • South Bend (219) 282-2357 

Monday, December 4, 1995 
Volleyball 
continued from page 20 
prtlssive 29-2 reeord and sur­
prised many with the upset 
ov11r Washington State to get to 
the Hegionals. 
The Irish will have three 
days of practice before board­ing the plane to Palo Alto and hope that a good scouting report will help them prepare. 
"In practice, we will gear a lot of what we do to getting our players familiar with their players, Brown said. "And continuing to do what we did well and decrease the number of errors." 

A:.:.uLiatcd Prt·ss 
MONTHEAL 

Putrick Hoy, the stur Montreal goalie who argued with the team's coach and president after an ·11-1 rout, was suspended indefinitely Sunday by the Canadians and placed on the trading block. 
Hoy had an angry exchange with coach Mario Tremblay and club president Ronald Corey when he was lifted from 
The Observer/Brent Tadsen 

Senior Jaimie Ling tallied an assist in the Irish victory over the Ferris 
an Il-l blowout loss to the Detroit Red Wings on Saturday night. 
Roy, who had allowed nine goals on 26 shots, is reported to have told Corey, "It's either him (Tremblay) or me." 
Canadians general manager Rejean Houle announced the suspension at a news confer­ence and said he will contact five or six NHL teams who might be interested in Roy. 


SLOTH 


ENVY ANGER 

Name 
GLUTTONY 


Henry Fairlie is a frequent contributor to The New Republic and The Washington Post. Among his many acclaimed 
books are The Spoiled Child ofthe Western World and The Kennedy Promise. 
Drawings by Vint Lawrence. 
The Observer • SPORTS 
Hockey 
continued from page 20 
After the Bulldogs reeled off a pair of quiek goals, Notre Dame struck back late in the second period when freshman left wing Aniket Dhadphale beat Blashill for his fourth goal of the season. Defenseman Brian McCarthy and Lorenz were credited with assists on the play. 
"There is no question that our confidence is a little higher now than it was earlier in the year," said Lorenz. "We're making the plays now that we weren't making in the earlier part of the season." 
Irish seniors have been instrumental in the quick turn­around over the last three weeks of the year, and they stepped up once again at FSU. With 14:13 to go in the third period, senior right wing Brett Bruininks received a pass from senior center Jaimie Ling and found the back of the net to gi~e the Irish a 3-2 advantage. 
After the Bulldogs tied the game, Dhadphale was deter­mined to make sure the Irish did not leave town without their fourth victory of the sea­son. 
.The freshman left wing notched his second goal of the evening off a pass from Lorenz to secure the 4-3 victory. 
"The team is starting to final­ly come together like we knew we could," said sophomore goaltender Matt Eisler who continues to frustrate oppo­nents inside the net. "The defense has been strong for the past few games, and when we 

State Bulldogs. 

get four goals, we know we can win." 
No. 7 ranked Lake Superior State, still seething from being upset last weekend at the hands of the Irish. refused to let the same fate meet them twice in two weekends. After falling behind 1-0 when Bruininks scored for the fifth time in five games, the Lake State roared back furiously in front of their home crowd at the Taffy Abel Arena. 
The Lakers exploded for five unanswered goals in the fifth period, and the Irish, despite fighting hard from start to fin­ish, were never able to recover. Dhadphale added a late goal to cap the best weekend of his short Notre Dame career, and Lorenz notched his fifth goal of the season. but it was not enough to overcome a fired up LSSU squad and an enthusias­tic Laker crowd. 
"We played well enough to win on Saturday, but it just didn't happen," said Lorenz. "They pretty much dominated the second period, but we held our own with them in the first and third. We know that we can play with them." 
It's beginning to look like the Irish can play with anybody. 
Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 
PRIDE 
Use your credit card 
to order and call 1-800-621-2736 or send your order campus mail to The University of Notre Dame Press, Maintenance Building. 
paper $10.95 

Campus Address 
D 
Check or money order enclosed 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, December 4, 1995 
• MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish drop first conference game at Rutgers 
By TIM SEYMOUR 
Associate Sports Editor 
They did almost everything right. The problem was, for Notre Dame in the Big East, almost everything will translate into an almost win. 
That's exactly what happened Saturday afternoon, as the Irish experienced first hand the per­ils of the road, losing their Big East debut 86-80 in overtime at Rutgers. 
Before the season began, Notre Dame head coach John MacLeod stressed a number of fundamentals that would directly correspond to Notre Dame's success in its new sur­roundings. Rebounding, front­court point production, and tak­ing care of the ball were the imperitives. 
Two out of three isn't bad. but it wasn't enough. 
Notre Dame outrebounded the Scatlet Knights 44-33 and got a combined 29 points from forward Pat Garrity and center Matt Gotsch. 
25 Irish turnovers, however, contributed to Notre Dame's 

The Observer/Kevin Klau Forward Pat Garrity scored 18 for the Irish, but fouled out 17 seconds into overtime in Notre Dame's 86-80 loss to Rutqers. 
Attention all students interested in becoming involved in Notre Dame Habitat for humanity: There will be a very Important group meeting tonight, Monday, December 4, at 
7:00 P.M. in the C.S.C. If you can't make it, please call Kelly or Amy@ X2906 and let us know. 
"Viva The Women's Resource Center!" 
Come check out the new titles just added to our book selec­tion and stop by to see what we have to offer you! 
BCAF Fashion Show clinic and tryout. Come strut your stuff in the BCAF Fashion Show, and if you don't know how, learn to do it in the clinic. The clinic will occur December 4 & S, 7:30-10:00 P.M. in Farley Hall basement. If you have any questions, please contact: 
Reggae Singleton @ 634-3433 
This service is provided for you by the Club Coordination Couneil. 6314078 206 LaFortune 
demise, allowing Rutgers to post its first-ever conference win. 
"We are glad to be part of a historic event, and glad it turned out this way," said Rutgers coach Bob Wenzel. 
In the first half, that historical milestone looked to be heading Notre Dame's way. Behind 52% shooting, the Irish rushed out to a 17 point lead before going into the half up 13. 
The second half proved a dif­ferent story, as the Scarlet Knights caught fire from three­point land, dropping in their first four baskets of the half from behind the arc to put themselves back in the game. 
"Today was a special moment for Notre Dame basketball," stated MacLeod. "But we just didn't come out in the second half with the juice we had in the first." 
Part of that juice was sitting on the bench, as foul trouble plagued the Irish throughout the contest. Due to a death in the family, center Marcus Young did not make the trip, leaving MacLeod the services of only Garrity, Gotsch, and fresh­man Phil Hickey in the post. 
All three endured foul trouble throughout, and Garrity exited only 17 seconds into overtime. Things were so bad at one point that shooting guard Pete Miller. playing his first game back from injury, came in at the power forward spot. 
Despite these personnel prob­lems, however, rallying from a six point deficit at the end of regulation to tie the game at 73. An unlikely three-pointer by the 6-11 Gotsch with twelve sec­onds left ensured the extra period, but a 7-0 Scarlet Knight run in overtime sealed the out­come. 
Freshman Geoff Billet scored 22 to lead the Scarlet Knights, while senior Ryan I:Ioover paced the Irish with 20. but fin­ished only 4-15 from three point land. 
Notre Dame gets its next opportunity to make history with a Big East win on Wednesday night, when it hosts Top-10 ranked Connecticut at the Joyce Center at 8:00p.m. 


The Observer • TODAY page 19 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 


ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 Packs away 

 11 Fall flower Fried Chicknn  

 12 Put on a scale London Broil 

 of 1 to 10  56 Partly open34 Take new 47 Adjusts laces  

 13lndecent  Lyonnaise Potatoestestimony from 48 Film "Two 57 Little comics girl  
18 Make over  36 Actor Sharif Mules for Sister 59 Mets stadium "  
22 L:iftoff rocket's  37 Like some &oSalonjob  
force  50 Chipped intonecessities &1 "Lohengrin" Celebrate a friend's 
24 "St. George and  the pot38 "--,old chap soprano 
the Dragon"  51 Succinct  
artist  &2 Paradise52 Bridal-­40 Sought office  
26 Ump's call  54 Conduits &5 Ship's record41 Revolutionary birthday with a 
27 Flair  Guevara  
28 Little: Suffix  42 Gratuity Get answers to any three clues  

 29 Short cheer  46 Nixed at the by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­special Observer ad 

 31 Switz. neighbor  Security 5656 (75¢ each minute). 

 32 Verdi's "-­tu"  Council  
•  •  


IT "SA'\"~-\-\£.1'£ 1.\•'-' (HE A~e.o 0,.. So"'E. \:.-..AM 1\T (oLLE.b_£.. \/Je.LC""'e.\o T!i£ hfi.M OF (i\tC\-\1\E.L fY\ti..-I'E/'1 {:v-lo
( 
N•a. Le.e.'5oM Assoc..rl\1£"">!1 
1-\o..­


DILBERT 
ON ONE HAND I MY COMPANY DOE.S USE 
INFER-lOR TECHNOLOGY 
IN OUR PRODUCT!:> ... 

CROSSWORD 
30 Asses wild? 33 Wedding site 

ACROSS 
1 Impressionist 35 Lima's land
Edgar 6 Nothing, 
36 Kimono sash 

slangily 39 Santa Claus 10 Puppeteer Tony 43 Opposite of 14 Put on·--·-WSW 
(pretend) 44 "Ver-ry funny" 15 Cheese from 
45 Pageant crown Holland 
46 Furniture 

1&1van or coversNicholas, e.g. 
49Birdof -­

11 Prime ore 50 On the briny
source 19 Mr. Preminger 53 Conduct 
55 Not taking sides Scrolls people 58 College board 
21 Main courses member 23 Scent 63 Wynken, 25 Cattle groups 20 Dead Sea 
Blynken and Nod, e.g.

2&0newith a crystal ball 
&4 Renowned chef 


• 
•• ATTENTION!
•
•
•
•
• From December 7th until the 13th,
•
•
•
• There will be 24-hour space
• • 
on the First Floor and the
•
•
• 
Basement of LaFortune~
•
•
•
• 
2 0 
u 
... 
0 
<!J"' 
Ul 
2 
c 
"' 
... ~ 
0 
u 
Ul 

&6 Town near Padua 
&7 --vera 
68 Taut 
&9 Proof of title 10 Carpets 11 Beelzebub 
DOWN 
1 "There Is Nothin' Like a 
2 Grandson of Adam 3 Mobsters' guns 4 Yearn passionately 5 Meeting transcriber 
&Ozzie or Willie 1 Fuss aMiami's county 
9"Sobe it!" 
~UT ON THE OTI-IER 
HAND) U\ THE MOST ATTRACTIVE FEf'\ALE. WHO \-\AS PAlO 1\TTE.NTI.ON 10 '(OU THI:":> YEAR. 
~ 
z 
, ~ 
. PICTURES OF YOUR 

not certain about your instructions. LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Resist an urge to disregard certain rules or 
• 
OF INTEREST 

• 
Shenanigans will be performing in their Christmas Concert on Tuesday at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets can be purchased for $1 at the door, or at the LaFortune lnfonnation Desk. · 

• 
The Children's Christmas Party will be held on Saturday in The Huddle from 7:30·9:30 p.m. Included in the event are a concert, refreshments, and door prizes. For more information, contact Jo Blakotor at 1-6963. 


•MENU 

Notre Dame 
North South Philly Steak Sandwich Chili Beef Chow Mein Beef Turnovers Shrimp Spaghetti Hissole Potatoes 
Saint Mary's 
WHAT KIND 

to save time and money. Greater teamwork is advised. Avoid sound­
OF ENGINEERS 

ing critical of a young person who
DO YOU THINK 

does not share your views. CANCER (June 21-July 22): Be
WE ARE.??! 

on the lookout for the unexpected. Errors can result if directions are mis­
\ 1/ DO '<00 11AVE 

understood. Ask questions if you are 
DAVE KELLETT YOUR HOROSCOPE 
\>. E~£."-i 0Tt\ER. L.)Nt><R61AA1 ('1\A.JCI!. o,... CAMpuo;. .. 
~(>lfl CoME. we. "t>otiT C\Ei "Th"-~-\\olllt. TESTS 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE 
lao!?'! 

NEXT YEAR OJ<' YOUR LIFE: Rapidly changing events and innov­
I 

ative people help shape your for­tunes. A unique career opportunity arises early in 1996. Your income will probably not increase until you have paid your dues; be patient. Choose your professional and per­sonal allies more carefully. A busi­ness expansion next May will ·be everything you want. Travel abroad proves profitable in midsummer. Give romance top priority when fall rolls around. Improved health habits keep you in top shape mentally and physically. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actress Rita Moreno, author Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn, singer Brenda Lee, producer Carlo Ponti. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Routine assignments hold fresh appeal. Lose yourself in your work; progress is assured. What you per­sonally do and say will attract more attention than a lot of paid-for advertising. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Romance sparkles. Spend your money wisely. An inexpensive but imaginative gift can mean more than a high-cost item. Enjoy any time you can spend alone. The rest of the month will be very busy.
SCOTT ADAMS 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 
Tend to routine tasks early in the 
day, streamlining office procedures make unpleasant remarks. Nothing should be allowed to stand in the way of teamwor: . Build a relation­ship on solid ground, not quicksand. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): When faced with various tasks, decide which ones need immediate attention. Delegate routine chores to qualified co-workers. A family emer­gency may put a dent in your wallet. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): A career change sounds too good to be true. Play for time while you seck more information. Someone influen­tial asks your opinion of a co-worker. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Check your bank balance before going shopping. A change of scenery helps you think clearly about a per­sonal situation. Events at a distance could mean new financial gains. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Your independent ways could lead to a quarrel with loved ones. Try to reach a new understanding. A friend's letter raises questions in your mind. Read between the lines. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Stay centered and you will accomplish more. Family members are unusually supportive. A partner may be confused about your inten­tions. Lighten up and talk things out. You need to sound positive about your goals. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Someone who has great trust in you could feel disappointed. Own up to your mistakes, vowing to try harder in the future. Spiritual gains prove more fulfilling than material rewards. Look within for answers. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Domestic squabbles should be avoided. Self-control and patience will help you resolve petty differ­ences before they become serious. Trying to keep up with the Joneses can be ruinous to your budget. Do not overspend. 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
3 
•
•
•
•

• _,..
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 

~. 

SPORTS 

page 20 Monday, December 4, 1995 
• fOOTBALL 
Notre.Dame ·set to face Florida State in Orange Bowl 
By MIKE NORBUT 
Spons Editor 
The speculation can finally stop. The armchair quarter­backs around the country can finally put their tarot cards back in their closet and stop 
• Irish may lose Kinder for bowl game. See page 16 
reading their horoscopes. 
People can actually compare their attempts at mind-reading with the actual results. 
In short, the Bowl Alliance made public Sunday the matchups for the nation's top three bowls. Notre Dame will meet Florida State in the 
• VOLlEYBALl 
Fighting for survival in the NCAA's 
Irish claim spot in 'Sweet Sixteen' with close victory 
By BETSY BAKER Sports Writer 
The motivation was there. The intensity was there. The lead was there, but Iowa State just couldn't capitalize. 
The Notre Dame volleyball team was just too much for the Cyclones to handle.. 
The fifteenth-ranked Irish were forced to fight back from a 14-9 deficit in game two, lm±ZLd•••••t:l!•llfj 
after annihilating the Cyclones 15-3 in the first game, to win the game 16-14. The Irish held the lead for the rest of the match, however, the Cyclones never lost hope. Iowa State forced the Irish to fight through fifteen sideouts at game point, until they finally capped off the third game and the match at 15-10. 
"We had our opportunity to finish the game, in game two, but we didn't capital­ized," Cyclone head coach Jackie Nunez said. 
"I think that if we had won the second 
,. 
Orange Bowl on January 1, 1996. 
It will be the final Orange Bowl to be played in the stadi­um of the same name. The 1997 Orange Bowl will stay in Miami, Fla., but will be moved to Joe Robie Stadium. It will be Notre Dame's first appearance since 1991, when the Irish fell to Colorado 10-9 after a "Rocket" Ismail punt return for a touchdown was called back because of a clipping penalty. 
"We've been to the Orange Bowl, but we haven't been back there for about five years, so we're excited to have that opportunity," Irish coach Lou Holtz said. "We don't have any­body on that team presently 


who's played in the Orange Bowl." 
The announcement came as a surprise to Holtz, literally. He found out where the team was going a little after 5 p.m., and then had to go on live via satel­lite on CBS' "Great Games Selection Show" at 5:30 to dis­cuss it. 
"We're having a press confer­ence so I can find out where we're going," he joked Sunday. "I can honestly say I didn't have any idea of who we'd play. Last night I felt we'd be playing the University of Texas. This morn­ing I told our staff I really felt we'd play Florida State." 

With the first and second selections, the Fiesta Bowl chose No. 1 Nebraska and No. 2 Florida to play January 2 for the national championship. The Irish were chosen third and the Seminoles fifth by the Orange Bowl, while the Sugar Bowl took Texas with their fourth pick and Virginia Tech with the final selection.· 
But who the Irish play pales in comparison to the actual 
The Observer/Brent Tadsen Sophomore outside hitter Angie Harris led the Irish both offensively and defensively with 19 kills and 19 digs in the comeback victory over the Cyclones. 
game, it would have set an entirely differ­
ent tone for the match." Despite some ball-handling and serving 
errors, the Irish, whose record now stands 
at 27-6, played consistently and confident­
ly, an essential factor as they now head to 
the Pacific Regional next week in 
California. · "Iowa State came out very emotional and played very well," Irish head coach Debbie Brown said. "We had a bit of a mental let-down in the second game, but picked right back and held them." "I am pleased with how the team responded after game two." With the exception of the let­down in game two, the Irish domi­nated the match from the first serve of the match, an over-power­ing jump serve from sophomore Angie' Harris. Harris had another banner day for the Irish, leading the victory with 19 kills and 19 digs. She also continues to make her newly-broken career service ace record unattainable for future Irish players as she compiled four more in the match against the Cyclones. "Angie had a phenomenal game," Brown said. "Hitting, serv­

ing, defense-she led us all the way." 
Right behind Harris was classmate Jaimie Lee who had 16 kills and freshman middle blocker Lindsay Treadwell who had 8 kills. Treadwell continues to progress as an offensive force for the Irish in her first season of collegiate volleyball and has contributed many key kills and blocks for the team. 
Treadwell was definitely a key contribu­tor in Saturday's match and attributes the victory to a winning attitude. 
"We never thought that we were going to lose the match," Treadwell said. "You can never think you're going to lose because if you do, you're done." 
'Done' is where Iowa State now stands. The Cyclones finished off their historical season at 22-12 with their first trip to the NCAA tournament considered a success. Senior Kirstin Hugdahl, whose nickname 'The Terminator' adequately describes her match-high 21 kills, cites this year as a precedent for years to come. 
"We've taken that next step," llugdahl said. "We've set the foundation for the program to proceed to the next level." 
The Irish will proceed to the next level, as they will play Oral Roberts University on Friday night in the Sweet Sixteen round 
see VOLLEYBALL I page 17 
event of playing in a bowl. 
"It's just great to be going," offensive guard Ryan Leahy said. "Choosing an opponent is like asking, 'What kind of car do you want?"' 
But the prospects of playing Florida State is a nice one in Holtz's eyes. 
"I enjoy (Seminole coach) Bobby Bowden's companion­ship, and we're looking forward to playing down there," he said. "We're playing Florida State at a neutral site in Florida. We see any land in Florida Seminole territory." 
Notre Dame defeated Florida State 31-24 to replace them as 
see ORANGE I page 16 
• HOCKEY 
Irish garner confidence throughout weekend 
By MIKE DAY Sports Writer 
No one can question the im­provement. It can no longer be deemed a fluke. 
In what is becoming the norm rather than the excep­tion, the Notre Dame hockey team continued to show signs of improvement this weekend, defeating Ferris State 4-3 on Friday before falling 5-3 to Lake Superior State on Sat­urday in a hard fought, well contested battle. 
"We played well both nights, and the results are finally starting to fall our way," said junior center Terry Lorenz. "When we play the way we are capable of playing, it's tough to beat us." 
When the Irish visited Ewigleben Ice Arena on Friday evening, the Bulldogs thought they would see the same strug­gling Irish squad they had fin­ished ahead of last season in the CCIIA. Little did they know, this Notre Dame team has a renewed sense of confi­dence. 
With 15:57 remaining in the opening period, the Irish showed the Bulldogs just how much they've improved. Senior defenseman received an outlet pass from junior right wing Tim Harberts and pow­ered the puck past FSU goal­tender Jeff Blashill for a 1-0 lead. 
see HOCKEY I page 17 
Football Saint Mary's Basketball 

• Men's Basketball loses to Rutgers
Orange Bowl 
vs. Concordia December 5, 7 p.m. 
see page 18
January I, 1996 
Men's Basketball 

SPORTS 
Hockey 

vs. Connecticut December 6, 8 p.m. 
• Saint Mary's Basketball struggles 
vs. Ferris State December 9, 7 p.m. 
at a 
see page 16
Women's Basketball 
Volleyball 

vs. Marquene December 8, 8 p.m. • Kinder questionable for bowl 
NCAA Tournament Action 
vs. Valparaiso December 17, 2 p.m. 
see page 16

GLANCE 






