
Wednesday, September 27, 1995• Vol. XXVII No.28 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Cluster upgrades provide 'real world' technology 
upgraded systems are located arts students. All PC's were the clock to complete the in Nieuwland Science Hall and upgraded last year. upgrades. Students may find Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering, According to Rapagnani, one the upgrades to be a pleasant which alone contains five clus­cluster, located in the basement surprise but it is important to 
Rapagnani: Computer systems 

changed to keep ND up to date 
ters. The rest of the Unix sys­of Hayes-Healy, contains 42 the University that students are tems will be upgraded by next Macintosh computers and has kept as updated as possible,"By JOHN NORTON of Notre Dame. 
year. been configured so that the Rapagnani said. 
News Writer Over the summer and at the 

beginning of this year, almost "The reason for the stagger­room may be divided in half. Students looking for a specific ing of upgrades, is so that we One half may be used for teach­type of computer can now findIn an effort to keep technol­everything has changed in com­do not get caught behind," Ra­ing purposes, while the other it using a feature built into theogy at Notre Dame up to date, puter clusters in Hayes-Healy pagnani said. half can be left as open access new World Wide Web Homemajor changes have taken and Nieuwland Science Hall due to the movement of the One hundred percent of the for students. Page for Notre Dame, anotherplace in the computer clusters 
Macintosh computers, which "Teaching times have been result of upgrades at the be­
on campus. architecture classes into Hayes­were almost three years old, limited in such clusters so that ginning of this year. Students"Notre Dame has a commit­Healy and the movement of the were also upgraded this sum­there are as many computers can go into the new Home Page

ment to keep the most current business classes into the new technologies in front of stu­business complex. The clusters mer. All 260 machines, not in­open for student access as pos­and click on "administration." 
cluding those in DeBartolo Hall sible because that is their main This will take students to a newdents and faculty, so that when were forced to change in accor­were overhauled. The upgrade purpose," Rapagnani said. menu where they should clickstudents graduate from their dance with the types of systems 
included larger monitors and All the upgrades were per­on "Office of University
four years here, they have no needed for the classes offered more robust machines, espe­formed in a two to three week Computing/ Educationalproblem adjusting to the tech­in the buildings. 
cially in Hayes-Healy where window between the end of the Media." This will lead to thenology used in the real world," Sixty-five percent of the Unix such equipment is required to summer school sessions and the last menu where students cansaid Dr. Larry Hapagnani, as­systems were upgraded cam­run the software commonly beginning of the regular schoolsistant provost for Information pus-wide with Sun SPARC sys­used by architecture and fine year. "We had to work round

Technologies for the University tems. The majority of these see CLUSTERS/ page 6 
• HALL PRESIDENTS' COUNCIL 


Council questions fairness of meal plan 
By DEBORAH SCHULTZ said. News Writer Upon hearing this informa­tion, HPC decided to continue 
In an effort to determine to examine this issue in an whether or not students are effort to determine what stu­paying an unnecessary amount dents pay for meals, and to eat at Notre Dame, Hall whether or not Business Affairs Presidents' Council discussed is charging more than neces­meal plans at their meeting last sary. night in Walsh Hall. Encouraging cooperation 
"Food services believes that with other groups, HPC Co­the twenty-one meal plan offers Chair Kristin Beary said, quite a bit, and they are more "Student Government has a than willing to discuss the ben­committee about this same sort efits," said Co-Chair Matt of thing. Hopefully we can Schlatter, who described the work something out with them visit of a food services repre­so that we can work together sentative to the Student Senate on this instead of doing the meeting last week. same things." 
"However, on average, stu­Other business at the meeting dents only use 59% of their included an announcement that meals, which comes out to activity sheets for the Hockne 

Sign 'em up! 

about 12 meals. This informa­Award will be collected at next tion is then given to Business week's meeting, and a decision Junior Katie Purcell and sophomore Stephanie Auffrey have seemingly convinced junior Bill Bosley Affairs. and they decide what to to sign up for the Finance Club at last night's Career Night. Career Night allowed sophomores, charge for the meals," Schlatter see HPC I page 6 juniors, and seniors from all majors a chance to meet with over thirty different firms for future jobs. 





Bowles brings new life to SMC art gallery, classes 
By JENNIFER LEWIS herself. The twenty-piece exhibit, shapes the pool from which the Assistant Saint Mary's Editor begins with her christening gown gallery board makes it's deci­and ends with her daughter's hos­sions." 
Bringing new life to the Moreau pital sleeper. And although Bowles became Gallery and Art Encounter courses "In a way, the exhibit is very full the Gallery Director in the fall of at Saint Mary's, artist, writer, pho­circle," said Bowles. "We all save 1994, this is her first semester tographer, lecturer, teacher, and things, and we don't know why. It teaching two introductory art mother, Johnson Bowles is illumi­was important for me to express courses at Saint Mary's. Asked to nating the female gender. and lay out all those things at teach Father Conyers' class and 
"She (Bowles) brings new en­once." given less than two weeks to pre­ergy to every project she is in­The preparation for the exhibit pare, she still handed her students volved in," said Marcia Rickard, was not as difHcult as one might a three-page syllabus detailing the chair of the Art Department. think, according to Bowles. objectives and requirBments of the 
Documenting one woman's "My mother said she was mov­course on the first day of class. identity, gender and ritual, ing, and she had all these things "I am trying to give the students Bowles' work is featured in that I saved up over the years," a vocabulary to better describe "Wearing a Woman's Life," an said Bowles. "I had probably every art by relating it to their everyday exhibit running at Krasl Art Center point in my life represented~" lives," said Bowles in describing in Niles, Michigan through October Bowles shows six to twelve gal­her teaching goals. 
1. According to Bowles, these leries a year from solo to group Though she was born and raised aspects of a woman's life are sym­exhibitions. Largely responsible in North Carolina, Bowles says she bolized by the baring of skins and for the artists featured in Moreau is from "all over." She moved the new shapes of life. Gallery, she has chosen Barbara around a lot during her grade 
In an effort to capture memo­Milman's "Herstories of War" and school and high school years, rable instances in her life, Bowles an exhibit by Diane Tani to feature which is evident in her multiple used her own clothing, such as her this month. Both exhibits focus on accents. In college, she stayed on confirmation dress, crossing guard stereotypes, text, and images. the east coast and received her outfit, marching band uniform and "There is a real sense of com­painting B.F-.A. degree from wedding dress in the exhibit. She mitment in the gallery, that per­Boston University; she then went embellished the clothing with se­haps was dealt with differently in quins, lace and photographs of the past," said Rickard. "Bowles 
see BOWLES/ page 6 

Wednesday, September 27, 1995
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 
• INSIOE COLUMN 

• WORlD AT A GLANCE 
More fighting possible as Yugoslavian peace talks near



The trials of living tone­less 
Hello, my name is Dan Dan Cichalski and I'mtone deaf. 
Assistant Accent Editor 
There. I've said it, it's 
out in the open, and I -------­know I'm a better person for coming forward and admitting it after all these years. 
It's not easy living this way; every day is a struggle. Some days are tougher than oth­ers: you wake up in the morning and out of the blue -BAM! -you start singing over and over in your head: "Boat drinks. The boys in the band ordered boat drinks. The visitors scored on the home rink ... " It doesn't matter if you haven't listened to Buffett since the Reagan Administration, you can't get it out of your head. 
Soon you're singing out loud to yourself. Softly, in the shower where the sound of the water prevents others from hearing your best rendition of "Send Me On My Way." But, by the time you get to brushing your teeth, you're belting it, and everyone looks, and you realize that they are doing so because a bulldozer would be closer to the right key. 
It happens in the car, and this is where it hurts the tone deaf person the most because you're usually with friends who are too nice to tell you to shut up and stop singing because they'd rather listen to this test ofthe Emergency Broadcast System because it's easier on the ears. There are just too many great driving songs out there with which you have to sing along. "Scehes From an Italian Restaurant" is one such song. I've turned that one up and sung along with Billy Joel several times, putting more feeling and effort into my performance than O.J. did when those leather gloves "didn't fit." Then my passenger reaches over to turn it up just a little more because he can still hear me as I tell the story about Brenda and Eddie pick­ing up those deep pile carpets and a couple of paintings from Sears. 
It's frustrating when the majority of your friends are qualified singers, in that, for example, they've sung in the church choir or been a Shenanigan. You'll be driving along the beach with the top down, and you want to join in with everyone in coaxing Rosalita to come out tonight but you hesitate because if Rosie hears you singing, she'lllock the doors and won't come out until you commit yourself to a monastery. Having singing friends is intimidating, especially when they ask, "Dan, what key are you singing in? Because, whatever it is, it's not the right one." 
I'm now at the stage where I'm always conscious of my singing voice, and I wonder if I need some kind of license to use it. When the National Anthem is played at Yankee Stadium, I stand and sort of say the words to myself. Here I basically hum the Alma Mater because I could be used as tackling dummy for destroYing such a lovely composition. In church, even on Christmas, I stand for the hymns and follow along but rarely sing (except for "Silent Night," when we all hold candles and the lights are dimmed). 
So now you have some idea of what it is 
like to be melodically challenged. Consider 
this column the next time you hear someone 
attempting "Ants Marching" followed by all 
the little ants running for cover, antennae 
covered. And, please, if you see me at a 
party putting all I've got into "Run Around," 
just smile politely, sing along, and dance. Of 
course, I can't dance, either. But that's 
another column. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


Gingrich unhurt as plane strikes geese 
WASHINGTON 
A small jet carrying House Speaker Newt Gingrich, his wife and two body­guards ran off a runway in northern Michigan after hitting four geese, avia­tion officials said. No one aboard the plane was injured. The plane was rolling for takeoff Monday from the Mackinac Island airport when one Canadian goose was sucked into the 


right engine and three others were struck by other parts of the plane, said Tanya Wagner, a spokeswoman in the Federal Aviation Administration's Great Lakes regional office outside Chicago. The pilot aborted the takeoff but was unable to stop the plane until it had run about 30 feet beyond the end of the runway, she said. "We were very lucky," Gingrich said today in Cincinnati, where he was helping fund-raising efforts of Ohio Republicans. "The pilots were very shaken. Another three or four sec­onds and we would have had a real problem." He said they left later on another plane. 
Angry over press, Chrysler bars paper 
DETROIT Detroit News reporters, shut out by labor union sources after a strike at the newspaper, have now been barred from all Chrysler Corp. events because of the auto com­pany's anger over recent stories. Chrysler executives are upset over the newspaper's aggressive coverage of bil­lionaire Kirk Kerkorian's efforts to gain control of the company. A front-page story in Tuesday's News said Chrysler Vice Chairman Thomas Denomme summoned News auto editor Bradley Stertz to his office Monday and said: "From now on, you, your editors and your journal cease to exist as far as this company is concerned.... "You will not be invited to any of our press events. You will have no access to our people. Your phone calls will not be returned," the News quoted Denomme as saying. The action was triggered by a front-page News story Sunday that said Chrysler Chairman Robert Eaton warned company employees that quality could be a weak spot in its battle with Kerkorian. 
New Levi bus stops ads banned 
NEW YORK An ad campaign expected to encourage looters to break bus stop shelters to yank out a pair of Levi's khakis was itself yanked Tuesday after complaints from the mayor. Levi Strauss & Co. began putting actual pairs of the $50 pants in bus shelter ads in New York City and San Fran­cisco this week, with the full expectation that people would steal them. In fact, the company was so sure that the crowbar-and-brick crowd would stoop to vandalism to get at the pants, it designed the ads for pre-and post­theft presentation, and paid in advance for repairs. The khakis were placed between the same hard plastic panels used for conventional two-dimensional advertisements, with ad copy that reads, "Nice Pants." Once they disap­pear, an outline of the khakis remains with the words, "Apparently they were very nice pants." New York Mayor Rudolph Giuliani was not amused at the thought of New Yorkers shopping with crowbars on city streets. He condemned the ads as "a terrible mistake ..: exactly the wrong message to be teaching to people." By the end of the day, the ads were pulled in New York. 
Four caught smuggling animal innards 
LOS ANGELES Four Chinese have been charged with trying to smuggle bear bile, deer testicles and other purported aphrodisiacs into the United States from China. Zhongri Gao, 36, Yongzhe Jin, 34, Xianglu Jin, 35, and Songyue Li, 35, were arrested Sept. 6 at Los Angeles International Air­port. Investigators seized $2 million worth of bear bile, gall bladders of Asiatic black bears, musk deer testicles, rhinoceros horn pills and tiger bone plasters -all con­sidered aphrodisiacs in some Asian countries. The items were hidden in clothing and luggage. Asiatic black bears are protected by international treaty, and the other items are covered by U.S. or international laws. The defen-. dants could get five years in prison. In Anchorage, Alaska, federal agents Monday intercepted 60 bear gall bladders valued at more than $900,000. They had been packed in a legal shipment of two tons of reindeer antlers, and smuggled in from the Russian Far East. 

• TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Viewpoint  
Gwendolyn Norgle  Tom Snider  
Mark Huffman  Production  
Sports  Kristi Kolski  
Joe Villinski  Belle Bautista  
Mike Day  Lab Tech  
Graphics  Brandon Candura  
Zoe Marin  


The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Tuesday, Sept. 26. 
Thesday, Sept. 26 Accu-Weather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

"T"'T"" .............. ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1995 AccuWeathar, Inc. 
Prsssurs ~ ~ rf\ 
H L B &:;:~ [III 0 IZ3 E3 ~ L....i C,___,!,. 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUOY 

VIII Assoc/atf1<1 Press 
Atlanta 79 59 Dallas 86 66 New Orleans 85 69 Baltimore 76 54 Denver 78 47 New York 75 57 Boston 70 53 Los Angeles81 64 Philadelphia 76 53 Chicago 74 55 Miami 90 78 Phoenix 97 69 Columbus n 49 Minneapolis 76 54 Stamford CT 75 55 
L------~-----------------------~ 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction righrs are reserved. 

Wednesday, September 27, 1995 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Non-governmental groups act with few constraints 
By MARY KATE MORTON 
Associate News Editor 
Non-governmental agencies are of increasing interest in the global sphere because they dare to go where other officials do not, according to Professor Thomas Weiss of Brown Uni­versity in Rhode Island. 
Weiss, a former member of the United Nations and director of International Studies at Brown, spoke last night in the Hesburgh Center for Interna­tional Studies in a lecture enti­tled "Humanitarianism and Non-Governmental Organiza­tions," in which he outlined the basic roles of NGO's and their prospects for the future. 
Weiss stressed the ability of... non-governmental organiza­tions to infiltrate war-torn areas and areas fraught with human rights violations because they operate under a different system of constraints. Whereas United Nations offi­cials must comply with strin­gent security and insurance policies, the NGO's are less constrained by sovereignty. 
"The NGO's tend to get down to the local level, which is not something that governments or the militaries or the UN system can do very well," stated Weiss. 
In an effort to clarify the spe­cific tasks of NGO's, Weiss ex­plained the two main functions facing non-governmental agen­cies today. 
The high-profile operations of NGO's usually include emer­gency crisis control in the war­torn areas of the world. 
Weiss suggested the work of NGO's on this front, which focuses on human rights viola­tions and aid to countries in need, is the largest element of the NGO budget. 
"Although the figures are 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL 
STUDY PROGRAM 

SANTIAGO, CHILE INFORMATION MEETING WITH PROFESSOR SILVIA ROJAS-ANADON 
WEDNESDAY SEPTEMBER 27,1995 4:30P.M. 
201 DEBARTOLO 

Returning Students will be on hand to answer questions 
very difficult to get a hold of, in the area of 10% of total public development aid and overseas development assistance is pro­vided through NGO's, " said Weiss. "In fact, this means that collectively, they [NGO's] are more important than the whole UN system, minus the Wash­ington-based financial institu­tions." 
The second objective of NGO's is to educate its constituency rather than only working within the war zones. Weiss stated that the NGO's need to work on the attitudes of the populations outside of the crisis-stricken countries. 
"This phenomenon grew up within the development com­munity as the third world said 'Listen, outsiders, the thing you can do for us is to work on the attitudes of your populations, their consumption behavior,"' said Weiss. 
In conjunction with this idea 


FREE 

PHONE CALLs 
An Exaggeration? 
Not ifyou're spending more than 25 bucks a month talking to people in Elkhart, Goshen, Bristol, Dunlap, Middlebury and Wakarusa areas. Why pay high long distance charges when you can pay a low flat monthly fee? You can call as often as you want and talk as long as you wish for only $23.00 per month. No special lines or installation needed. We can start your service today! 
1-800-360-4990 
Maylbe yollJl JmajoreJ in aJvertising without even knowing it. 

LEO BURNETT COMPANY, INC. 
So you majored in English. Or Psychology. Or PLS. Or maybe even Chemical Engineering. No matter. Fact is, you may very well have prepared yourself for a career in advertising. At Leo Burnett, we're not interested in majors-we're interested in people who like to think. So come and learn about a career in Client Service. Mter all, you have the prerequisites. 
Wednesday, September 27th, 6:30 pm · Alumni-Senior Club Dress Casual 

of education, Weiss drove home the point that advocacy is need­ed in Washington to raise money for this aspect of the NGO's, since it is not well-fund­ed. 
According to WPiss, this should include lobbying the decision-makers in Washington. 
The trap that NGO's tend to fall into when they try and come to the aid of everyone in need, and they travel to each and ew~ry war zone in search of victims to help, said Weiss. When this occurs, NGO's are Yulnerable to governmental manipulation. 
Occasionally, its eager, 
younger members bring with them a naive attitude that they can help everyone. In this sense, Weiss relayed to his au­dience the need for NGO's to fo­cus on planning and evaluation so that they are aware of the implications of their possible rescue missions. 
In relation to the Bosnian cri­sis, Weiss stressed that NGO's should take a step back and get away from their habit of falling into the role of what he termed "crisis junkies.·· 
"NGO's have to learn when to say no. Bosnia is not the place for a training program." 

SUNDA , CI'OBER 1 
& 
SUNDAY, OCI'OBER 8 
• MUST HAVE RIDDEN AHORSEATLEASTONCE • • TRANSPORTATION PROVIDED • 

r ~·$15.fPiN· r ~ 
BUS DEPARTS  RETURN  
LIBRARY CIRCLE  RI.J:!E  TO CAMPUS  
10/1  10:15  11:00  12:30  
10/1  11:45  12:30  2:00  
10/8  10::15  11:00  1:30  
10/8  12:15  1:00  2:30  

REGISTER & PAY IN ADVANCE MAXIMUM NUMBER PER RIDE IS 5 FOU MOUE INFO C 1LL I~ECSI'OUTS .1T fi.H-611111 


Includes: transportation 

-------~----~--------------------­
Wednesday. September 27 1995
page 4 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



'15 


PO·W~~ 
!Mu[ticu[turaf 'E~ecutive Council 
MULTl CULTURHL FHLL FESTIUHL 

CULTURE 
ON THE QUAD October 2-6 Fieldhouse Mall 4:30-6:00 p.m. Performances By: Native American 
Club Hawaiian Club Greek Club Filipino Club 
TroopND 

Fireside Chats 
October 2-6 .. Women in the Rrts .. Notre Dame Room, LaFortune 
12:15-1:15 p.m. 

Monday: Professor Lyonga Tuesday: Professor Rlice Cheang Wednesday: Sonya Gernes Thursday: Diana Mythyus 
~ Friday: Jill Godmillow 

TASTE OF NATIONS 
Friday, October 6 
8:00 p.m. Stepan Center 

Entertainment by Sabor Latino 
..., "' 

. 

SPECIAL EUENTS 
October3 102 DeBartolo 7:00p.m. Eun-Sook Lee 
OctoberS Ball Room 7:00p.m. 
John Ole Tome 



-----------~-----------­
Wednesday, September 27, 1995 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Students aid peers in disciplinary hearings 
ByTOMMORAN 
News Writer 
Recent ads touting Student Government assistance to stu­dents undergoing disciplinary 

SATURDAY, OCTOBER 7 
11:00 AM-STEPAN CENTER 
3 & 6 MILE RUNS AND PANCAKE BREAKFAST , ' 
. . 
T-SHIRTS TO ALL FINISHERS REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS $5.00 IN ADVANCE & $6.00 DAY OF RACE STUDENT AND STAFF DIVISIONS 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL RECSPORTS AT 1-6W 





Raise Your Scores! 

Small Classes+ Dynamic Instructors Practice Testing + Free Extra-Help 
~ ~::fNcETON (800) 2-REVIEW 

~, REVIEW lnlo.chfcago@revlew.com 
The Princeton Review is not affiliated with Princeton University or E.T.S. 


Creative Writing Program 
GRADUATE STUDENT READING 
Thursday, September 28, 7:00-9:00 p.m. Hesburgh Library Lounge 
Everyone invited! 
hearings are geared toward this fashion has long been an making students aware of a express right of Notre Dame service that has been available students, as guaranteed them to them for years. in DuLac (page 75). 
According to Director of The assistance Student Gov­Residence Life Jeff Shoup, the ernment offers takes the form option to request assistance in of a fellow student, also known 
offer both practical and emo­tional support during disci­plinary hearings. 
The peer supporter can be either a friend of the defen­dant(s) or a member of the Department of Student Government Counsel who is specially trained to help in such situations. 
According to Judicial Council President Tom Matzzie, the Student Government peer edu­cators help out at all stages of the hearing. 
"We advise before the hear­ing, help out during the hearing and assist (the accused) with preparing a case review if they so desire," Matzzie said. 
A case review is an official re-

Information Meeting Spring 1996 
Wednesday September 27, 1995 4:30P.M. 143 DeBartolo 
quest for an appeal. 
The peer educators also help the defendant(s) fill out advo­cacy reports before the hear­ings begin. These reports help flesh out the details of the cir­cumstances of the infraction, and can help show when the University failed to follow prop­er procedures in handling the case, which can help the cause of the defendant(s). 
Matzzie noted that the recent advertisements advising stu­dents of this service are part of an ongoing plan to improve the outreach and the service of the peer support system. 
The advertisements serve as a reinforcement of the notices all students receive when they are summoned for a hearing. Each summons letter includes a card informing students of their right to peer counsel. 
The system has also been improved recently through an increase in the number of stu­dents available to act as trained peer counselors. "We now have a director and several stu­dents within the Department of Student Government Counsel who can assist students," stated Matzzie. 
This has resulted in a greater diversity of personnel available to serve as peer supporters. Previously, Matzzie said, almost all requests for a Student Gov­ernment peer supporter were handled exclusively by the Judi­cial Counsel President. 
Matzzie stated that the peer supporter is only available in administrative hearings, which deal with serious infractions such as major parietal viola­tions, drug problems, assault. and repetitive alcohol abuse or violent behavior. 
In such cases, he said, the defendant meets before a three-person review board, so a peer supporter is extremely 
_important to help "equalize things." 


page 6 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, September 27, 1995 
Engineer Foley to speak HPC 
continued from page 1

Special to the Observer provide shape selectivity with highly manipulable chemistries. 
about the winning dorm for the

Henry Foley, director of the Foley has been the recipient of 
month of September will be

University of Delaware Center the National Science made as soon as possible.
f«;~r Catalyt~c, Science and Tech­Foundation's Presidential Young "We are very excited aboutnology, will deliver the Ernest Investigator Award. He has this award because we haven'tW. Theile Lecture in Chemical served since 1986 on the had it in so many years," saidEngineering at the University of Delaware faculty, where he is Schlatter.
Notre Dame, October 10. an associate professor of chemi­Christy Eldred, vice-president Foley will deliver his address, cal engineering. His research 
of marketing for Adworks

"Transport and Reaction in has led to more than 60 profes­spoke to HPC about encourag­Nanoporous Carbon," at 3:30 sional papers and six patents. 
ing students use their assis­

p.m. in Room 356 of Fitzpatrick Ernest Theile's groundbreak­
tance in preparing for SYR's

Hall of Engineering. The Theile ing research permanently asso­and other dorm events. 
Lectureship recognizes out­ciates his name with the field of "We will be speaking to dormstanding research contributions chemical engineering. Over 35 government soon to tell stu­
them. We do everything for SYR's, such as t-shirts and DJ's, and we do things a lot cheaper than many other com­panies because we are all stu­dents, and this is our major. We also do things, like table tents in the dining halls and posters to advertise anything around campus," Eldred said. 
Student Body President Jonathon Patrick also spoke to HPC about upcoming events happening around campus, and he distributed lists of on-cam­pus dance facilities. 
For further questions about locations, students are encour­aged to speak to Katie Beirne, campus social commissioner. 

Clusters 
continued from page 1 
click on to "Clickable Map of Campus Computer Clusters," which lists each cluster's hours and the types of computers each cluster has. 
All clusters have a standard set of Macintosh, Windows and Sun software. 
"The purpose of all this is to make everything as transpar­ent to the students as possible, but we don't always succeed," Rapagnani said. 
by a younger member of the chemincal engineering profes­sion. His investigation has led to new composite structures that 


Bowles 
continued from page 1 
to Ohio University were she re­ceived her M.F.A in painting and photography. 
"We were certainly aware of her talents and her degrees," said Rickard of Bowles, who lias taught art courses at Ohio University, University of Hous­ton, and Kingwood College. "She is certainly qualified for the job." 
In her spare time, Bowles writes photography commen­taries and has been published in the magazines "SPOT" and "After Image." 
Although Bowles' own inter­est in art originated in the frrst grade, she did not have a for­mal training until college. 
Encouraging all art students to find a skill or way to use their artwork to achieve fman­cial independence, she said it is important to work hard and to find a supporting audience. 

years, Theile investigated every dents about what we can do for
aspect of petroleum refming for Standard Oil Company before joining the Notre Dame faculty 
Recycle The 

in 1960. He taught for 10 years, publishing 20 papers and hold­
Observer 
ing some 30 patents. 

1n THE cusHwA CENTER FoR c:!IFL..THE STUDY OF AMERICAN 
IJ CAT~~~!t~ISM 
Diaspora Nation·alism and 
Urban Landscape: Cuban Immigrants at a Catholic Shrine in Miami 
Thomas A. Tweed 
The University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill 
Thursday, September 28, 1995 4:15p.m. Hesburgh Library Lounge 

NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE PRESENTS 
THE IMAGINARY INVALID 
i • • : • • 
TRANSLATED AND DIRECTED BY REV. DAVID GARRICK, C.S.C. 
WEDNESDAY, OCT. 4 ... 8:00 P.M. fRIDAY, Ocr. 6 ........... 8:00 P.M. THURSDAY, OCT. 5 ...... 8:00P.M. SATURDAY, OCT. 7 ...... 8:00P.M. SUNDAY, OCT. 8 ......... 2:30P.M. 
PLAYING AT WASHINGTON HALL • RESERVED SEATS S8 STUDENT AND SENIOR CITIZEN DISCOUNTS 
TICKETS ARE AVAILAIJlE AT THE DOOR OR IN ADVANCE AT THE LAfORTUNE 
STUDENT CENTER TICKET OFFICE. MASTERCARD AND VISA ORDERS CALL 631-8128 

I 995 JOSEPH P. MOLONY LECTURE 
Sponsored by: the Department of Economics of the University of Notre Dame and the United Steelworkers of America 
Global Village or Global Pillage: 
Economic Reconstruction from the Bottom Up 



JEREMY BRECHER 
Autfror of eigfrt hooks on labor and social policy, Connecticut PBS Scholar in Residence 
8:00 pm Thursday, September 28, I 995 
Room 102, Edward DeBartolo Building Campus Information: 63 J ....62 1,3 
Wednesday, September 27, 1995, The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Bond trader charged in Japanese bank's losSes 
By DAVID E. KALISH 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
A bond trader today was charged with falsifying records in connection with $1.1 billion in losses for his employer, a Japanese bank that accused him of 11 years of unauthorized trading. 
Toshihide Iguchi, an execu­tive vice president at Daiwa Bank's New York office, was arrested during the weekend in New Jersey, where he lives. 
If convicted, Iguchi faces a maximum sentence of 30 years in prison and $1 million in lines, said Mary Jo White, the 
U.S. attorney for New York. He also could be ordered to make restitution. 

He was to appear in court later today and White said the government would seek an or­der to detain him because of the scope of the case and huge sum involved. 
The bank said that no deposi­tor or customer suffered any losses. Despite its need to write off the losses against earnings, it expected to report a profit for the first half of the year. 
The bank had fired the 44­year-old executive, saying he engaged in 30,000 unautho­rized trades. 
White said the bank learned about the losses in July, but that federal authorities were first alerted last week, when the bank made a required 
report on its trades to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 
White said the bank's own examiners may have been fooled during the period the unauthorized trades allegedly took place. 
"There is some evidence the examiners were led astray when they did some of their ex­aminations," she said. 
"The message of this case is perfectly clear ... the internal controls are essential to safe­guarding all banks and finan­cial institutions and the money entrusted to them," White said. 
She also said others at the bank are under investigation but have not been charged. 

White said a rough estimate of the trading loss was between one-quarter and one-third of Daiwa's total U.S. Treasury bond portfolio in New York. 
The news stunned Japanese financial circles, where the con­ventional wisdom had been that controls were far too tight to permit a scandal reminiscent of the Nicholas Leeson case that brought down Britain's Barings Bank. 
Barings collapsed and was bought by lNG Group of the Netherlands in March after Leeson lost $1.39 billion with bad bets on the Japanese stock market. Daiwa was in no dan­ger of collapse because it is a far larger bank, officials said. 
Japan's finance minister, 
Masayoshi Takemura, said Daiwa has sufficient resources to cope with the loss, so it will "not cause any concern over Daiwa Bank's financial strength." 
Takemura said the ministry has reprimanded Daiwa. 
The loss is the latest in a se­ries of blows to Japan's banking industry, including the recent failures of a large regional bank and several large credit unions because of bad loans. 
Daiwa said Iguchi was hired in New York to work at the bank's branch there in 1976. Iguchi previously studied at Southwest Missouri State Uni­versity, Daiwa said. 
U.S. bond traders said Iguchi was known for trading batches of securities in a series of deals 
that would move the market. Usually, he dealt with several companies at the same time in orders of $100 million each, said the trades, who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
Several elements of the case resembled the Leeson affair, in which the young Barings trader is accused of falsifying docu­ments to cover up his mounting losses. 
Daiwa said Iguchi exceeded his trading limits in buying and selling U.S. government securi­ties, then forged documents to conceal his position. 
In both cases the trading took place far from the company's home office: Leeson in Singa­pore for London-based Barings, anti Iguchi in New York for Os­aka-based Daiwa. 
"We are deeply embarrassed that our internal controls and procedures were not sufficient to prevent this fraudulent ac­tion," Masahiro Tsuda, general manager of Daiwa's New York branch, said in a statement. 
He said a series of stringent new procedures will be added to worldwide trading opera­tions to prevent a similar loss. 
Moody's Investors Service, a New York-based credit infor­mation business, today said it was reviewing Daiwa's loss to determine if it should down­grade its rating of the bank's 

You are not a OlOOCh. But when 
financial strength. Daiwa Bank is one of Japan's 11 major commercial, or "city,"

a hole in your pocket renders you changeless, 
banks. The Tokyo and Osaka stock 
exchanges halted trading in Daiwa shares after the an­nouncement. but the rest of the 

you r e I u c t a n t I y call the folks collect. 
You dial 1 800 CALL ATT. 
market appeared unaffected. The Tokyo Stock Exchange's key index finished up 2 percent.

Your pangs of guilt are minima[. 
I 800 CALL ATT always costs less than t-soo-cot.I.EcT.• 
.-\lwu~·s works l'rnm '"'~ Ilhon<·. And ulwuys gels you the reliahlc Alll:'r Nel\\ork. 
l's'' it ll'llellt'l't!l" you',.e t~l1' Ctiiii/JIIS. 
Know the Code. 1 800 CALL AT1: That's Your 1rue Choice:'M 










AT&T 
Your True Choice 
• For interstate calls. Promotions excluded. I-BOO-COLLECT is a registered trademark of MCI. 
C 1995 A1&T 


VIEWPOINT 
pageS Wednesday, September 27, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 

John Lucas Managing Editor Business Manager Elizabeth Regan Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager .......... , ........... Jen Mackowiak Sports Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannety Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, SportS Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the vlews of the authors, and not necessarily chose of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900 I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor /Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
GENERAl. POWELL, 71-IE VOTERS 
MAYBE,

SEEM TO VIEW ~u AS A DECISIVE MA.YSE NOT_. (EADER WI-IO WON'T PLA.Y GAMES WAIT A"'O SEE ... fill 1996... 
\ 
} 
I• 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Setting the record straight abou~ WVFI 
Collegiate vs. commercial: the line 
Dear Editor: 
A s the business manager at WVFI, I would .L-\.J.ike to set the re~;ord straight on a few issues raised in the article "WVFI Faces New Challenges" which appeared Friday, Sept. 15 iB The Observer. 
First however, I would like to make it clear that the fundamental guiding principle of the station is to provide the students with pro­gramming that is not found within the realm 
of commercial radio. This means playing music from younger, up and coming bands on smaller indepen­dent labels, as well as offer­ing a wide variety of special­ty shows. 
Although this format may not fall in line with the tastes and preferences of the general student popu­lous, it serves an important function in maintaining diversity. and exposing to the campus fresh ideas and perspectives. 
In response to the article, I take offense at Adele Lanan's comments regard­ing the listener survey that took place last spring. As Ms. Lanan's allegations are not only unfound­ed but also untrue. 

Additionally, I would like to address the issue of programming as it relates to professionalism. To me, it seems, Ms. Lanan is confusing the latter term with "commer­cialism." She feels that in order to become worthy of an FM frequency, we have to appeal more to the general tastes of the stu­
dent body. 

'popularity remains 
the primary determinant. Here is where the dilemma lies. How are we as a station supposed to maintain true to our philosophy of exposing the students to new music and ideas while only playing what they already want to hear?' 
T
one ofthe authors of the questionnaire, I con­sider her notion that we "phrased the ques­tions in such a manner that it came back the way (we) wanted" a direct assault on my per­sonal integrity and that of the station as a whole. Certain sources have even indicated that these remarks could possibly constitute grounds to sue for libel in this case. he fact of the matter is that our primary objective was to paint a clear picture of student opinions toward WVFI. The survey was carefully designed to uphold the stan­dards and conventions of quality, objective market research. Additionally, it was per­formed as a class project, and was passed by both the administration and the department of social research without question. In short, 
• DOONESBURY 

Popularity remains the pri­mary determinant. Here is where the dilemma lies. How are we as a station sup­posed to maintain true to our philosophy of exposing the students to new music and ideas while only playing what they already want to hear? Although they may not be the most accepted, the artists we choose to play do exhibit a tremendous degree of talent and are worthy of being heard. 
Now, I will be the first to admit that there is room for improvement concerning the station. There are a few sore spots in the organiza­tional culture of WVFI, and 
H
we could learn a few lessons about more effective management. owever, there are criteria which need to be weighted differently when judging a college as opposed to a commercial radio sta­tion. Whereas a commercial station's target is to entertain and drum up listenership in order to survive as a business, the primary focus of a college radio station should be to inform and educate its listening population about music, whether it be jazz, classical or punk rock. 
RYAN DUNCAN 
Business Manager 
WVFI 


aneea 


Whatisneede is a better communication line, both between the sta· uon and advisor,·· the·. station and other forms ·of· studen~media, · WVFfand the students. 
Last year, Steven Sostak, the -statiof! manager, and Ted Uebler, inter­im station manager, initiated many new excitinginroads into the mean­ing and professionalism of college radio. · 
. Our contacts with station alumni, o.ur contacts with other area college stations,specifically·WNuR and WH~l(, and our initiatives in specialty shows constructed for the sole purpose of student education and enterM· tainment have all created a new spirit of enthusiasm and professional­ism at WVFI. • · . . · HktJnfortunately, the article "WVFI Faces New Challenges" was extremely biased and offered no student perspectives except. for the perspective of Ken Maverick who was station manager for a little more thanaweek. . 
·This kind ofjournalism is unprofessional and continues the stereotyp­ical picturing of the hundred plus Notre Dame and Sa~t.Mary's stu­dents involved with this educational goal. Once agam, I must em­phasize the need for better communication between all parties. 
T
1 do take offense at the suggestion ofJoe Cassidy that our station does not providemusic the students like; Take. for example our "Dead" show which offers two solid hours of "The Grateful Dead,'' or how about the Jl.umher ofrap andfreeformshow offered? he only factor withholding success from WVFI is a denial of FM sta­
tus. The archaic carrier current status of WVFI is a shameful 
· example of no substantial interest in WNFI's format, something that would be unique to Notre Dame and South Bend, but is extremely prevtllent mmost other colleges and cities across the U.S., Canada, and Mexico. ·· · ;.izft• 
What we need is a sympathetic ear from the administration, a better communicative link,. arid an understanding that WVFI is much more professional than three years ago. 
Next time. .Observer bandies about aw~ga.Uo1n.s of unprofessional­.. · reconsider lihelous,·and shameful 'n""' ·n1eu1.a al,}<lc{)IltalthlfiQ no perspective from tlie 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
DAVID MCMAHON Music DircttQr WVFI 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Yellow cat, black cat, as long as it catches mice, it is a good cat." 
-Deng Xiaoping 


...


VIEWPOINT
Wednesday, September 27, 1995 page 9 
• IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD 
Part 1: The Rage ofa Privileged Class 
"Upon declaring her intention to 
leave a cushy job with a Fortune 500 company to go into the nonprofit sector, a young black woman, a Harvard graduate. was pulled aside by her vice president. Why, the executive wanted to know, was the company having such a difficult time retaining young minority professionals? · 
R
The young woman's frustrations were numerous: she felt herself surrounded by mediocrity, by people trying to ad­vance on the basis of personal influence and cronyism rather than merit; she was weary of racial insensitivi­ty, of people who saw nothing about her except color, or con­versely of those who, in acknowl­edging her tal­ents, in effect gave her credit for not really being black; she deemed it unlikely . given her percep­tions of the corporate culture, that she would be allowed to make it to the top, and feared waking up in a rut several years hence to find that opportunities (and much of life) had passed her by; and she was tired of having to bite her tongue, tired of feeling that she could only speak out about the wrongs she perceived at the risk of being labeled a malcontent and damaging her career. ather than try to explain, the woman finally blurted out that there was "no one who looks like me" in all of senior management-by which she meant there were no blacks. and certainly no black women. 
"What reason do I have to believe," she added, "that I can make it to the top?" ....several years later, she remained discouraged by what seemed a simple reality of her existence. "The bottom line is you're black. And that's still a negative in this society." (Ellis Cose, The Rage of a Privileged Class, 5­6). Damn right, I say. 
In one of my classes, we were in one of those discussions of race and ethnicity where the handful of black students were obviously on the defensive (by reflect, naturally) and this one person said that he believes that the black stu­dents at Notre Dame are everything 
I
short of "better" than other blacks in the community. was immediately offended and I wonder if this belief is widespread. I wonder if some people believe that the black students that decide to come here are the geneti­cally capable select 
few of the black masses;· a different breed of black people. And the beat goes on. 
When I interview for jobs, I wonder if that person sees someone who is capa­ble and competent, or does that person see a black person who is capable and competent. 
It's like having two bushels of apples. The first bushel cost 10 dollars and has perfect ripe, red apples that are all good and worthy to be consumed. The sec­ond bushel cost five dollars so you assume they are of lesser quality, and you don't even bother to give them a second glance. Now if I told you, you had to make a pie using the apples from the second bushel and give it to some­one of your choice, odds are you aren't 
going to give it to someone important 
because in your head you think the 
apples are inferior, although they really 
aren't. 

It's because you let something outside 
of it's inherent quality decide how you 
perceive it. That's the problem in this 
society, we let what we read about or 
what we see on TV decide how we judge 
people. 

The above excerpt is from Ellis Cose's "The Rage of a Privileged Class". Most people think that the black underclass are the only blacks that suffer immense­ly from racism and discrimination, but it ·is also those black who have escaped the so-called ghetto, that thrive in corporate America who have the same anger and 
resentment. 

I can see it in my own family when I 
talk to my brother-in-law when he vents 
his frustration because he works twice 
as hard as his white counterparts and 
only gets half as far, and when he plays 
with his four year-old son knowing that 
that child may not ever feel content 
being just exactly what he is. 
"Despite it's very evident prosperity, 
much of America's black middle class is 
in excruciating pain. And that dis­
tress-although most of the country 
does not see it-illuminates a serious 
American problem: the problem of the 
broken covenant, of the pact ensuring 
that if you work hard, get a good educa­
tion and play by the rules, you will be 
allowed to advance and achieve to the 
limits of your ability" (Cose, 5~. 
S
ociety today is so much more differ­
ent than my parents' time. My par­
ents sometimes don't realize that I am 
up against a totally different "enemy" 
than they were. 

Remember that they grew up in a seg­
regated and externally racist society. 
My parents had to deal with the racism 
Cristiane Likely 
•DESIDERATA 

Keeping priorities in proper order 
Personal life comes before professional life 

I
sat at my desk the other day and looked over the work I had to get done. I had divorce files. There were letters to be written to the Social Security A-dministration. There was a question as to the validity of a contract. As I went over my tasks, I wondered what type of work I would have been doing had I got­ten a job with the Federal Public Defender. 
Ever since I decided to study law, I have been moti­vated primarily by issues in criminal justice. There are a lot of criminal cases pending at any given time, and every criminal defendant needs help in answering the charges brought against him. 
Because I have a very non-judgmental attitude -I want to help these people regardless of the allegations against them or the strength of the prosecution's case -I thought a public defender position was ideal for me. 
Here at GWC (Goldberg, KirstenWeisman & Cairo), we get some criminal cases, but it is certainly not the bulk of the firm's work. 
Dunne I've known this for some time, as I worked here in the summer of 1994. It was for this reason that, although I was encouraged to come back to the firm after taking the bar exam, I pur­sued a job with the Federal Defender. But I didn't get it and, in retrospect, I am almost relieved. 

I didn't have much contact with the people in the D"efender's office, but what little there was superficial and tense. One attorney was very irritable. Another looked liked she never cracked a smile. Most of the secretaries appeared to resent the attorneys and their jobs in general. I just knew that working in that office would have made me feel terribly lonely. I could fore­see myself getting along with these people, but as for being their friends, that wasn't going to happen. 
T
At GWC, by contrast, nearly everyone is cheerful and friendly. Attorneys, secretaries, law clerks and parale­gals mingle freely together. We confide in each other, and offer potential solutions for each other's problems (or at least provide a sympathetic ear). We don't all hang out together that often outside of the office, but at GWC, my co-workers are my friends, and there is a certain level of comfort in that knowledge. his is why my life was made much easier by the 
Federal Defender's current lack of positions for new attorneys. I knew I would have gotten great expe­rience in the field of law I really feel strongly about. It would have been somewhat painful to turn down... but I think that is exactly what I would have done, and I am glad that fate spared me the agony. 
Why would I turn down such a great offer, you are asking? I ask myself the same thing sometimes; in hon­esty, I wonder if I would be saying the same thing had it actually been an offer. But I do sincerely believe that, if you don't have people you can talk openly to, nothing else in your life can be truly fulfilling. 
Not that I don't have a great family and several close friends, but sometimes I just want to talk to my co­workers, and seemingly my co-workers feel the same. Would I have enjoyed criminal defense work so much in a cold environment like the one I sensed at the Defender's office? Much more importantly, would I have been able to offer my clients the defense to which they are consti­. tutionally entitled when I felt like I, too, was in a major predica­
ment? I think not. 
O
f course. the nature of one's 
work does play a role in self-fulfillment. For example, if I were currently defending large insurance companies who avoid payment of ben­efits to policy-holders whenever they possible could, I would not feel all that great about myself. But on bal­ance, I think one's work is less important than one's friendships. 
Just yesterday I learned that a· friend of mine, with whom I had lost touch, committed suicide. And while I had already chosen the topic for today's article, it took on a new meaning for me. I wondered if he was sur­rounded by a support network of friends and family when he took his life? And if not, might he still be here? 
I may never know the answers to such questions. But when I think of all the people who compromise their personal relationships for their work, I do know that I never intend to do that. We've got to keep our priori­ties straight. 
Kirsten Dunne, ND '92 (B.A.) and '95 (J.D.), is work­ing at Goldberg, Weisman & Cairo. Ltd. in Chicago. 
inherent in small town Georgia and rural Louisiana, not the big overcrowd­ed, commercialized urban cities that my generation has to deal with. 
M
My generation has to deal with a growing internal racism. We grow up bitter and discontent at the world and disillusioned with society. My parents believe that if you have to work harder than everybody to get to the same place then that's okay. I can understand this mentality, but I refuse to work harder and not get farther. y father worked 10-12 hour work days and never made more than thirty-five thousand dollars a year, and I see the same people that started off with him make 2-3 times more because of the color of their skin. 
That's a hard thing for me to accept because my father is no worse than those people who are enjoying the fruits of their alleged privilege to white skin. And my father never complained, he just hopes that his children don't have to deal with all that, and no one can say we won't. 
What does it all come down to? What are we going to do in society that isn't willing to change anything? Am l: angry? Yes, I am. Yes, there is a seri­ous problem, but it is not necessarily the problem that is so problematic, it is the unwillingness of this nation to realize that there is a problem. This breeds such hate, resentment, disgust. and fear. So I wonder what other black students at Notre Dame think about our situation. I guess we'll find out later. To be con­tinued ..... 

page 10 
Wednesday, September 27, 1995 





• 
1 
0 >'L
i 
, 
;\ 
>>' 
S ' 
>>>, 
E / 
, "' 
. 
, 
? "~----~-:,) ,, ' •• 

The Accent Fashion Patrol raided random campus closets. Although no drastic fashion statements were made, in less than twenty minutes all were dressed and looking great. Best of all? They were comfortable and ready to dance the night away. 



Ladies
.·r: •.· 
; ' 

By ASHLEIGH THOMPSON 3) Rhinestones, pearls, lace and chif­ing, but something a little different tiona!. Assistant Accent Editor fon might give your dress some flair, but might be appreciated by those that have 5) Nylons are good. Undergarments please, pick only one. grown indifferent to your everyday look. are necessary. 
0 
nly at Notre Dame would students 4} Since dancing is the main SYR There are lots of cool barrettes out 6) When it comes to jewelry, anything dress up to drink, but since that is objective, make sure your hair will not now that are bound to coordinate with goes. Nice costume pieces may look what most will essentially be doing be interfering with your vision. any dress. Curls can be fun too, and very sophisticated, but plastic jewelry in addition to dancing, being comfort­Everyday hairstyles may be very becom-even a choice hat might be really func-from quarter machines could be fun too. able is the key. 
Be careful when it comes to jewel­While the idea of this activity 
ry that could get caught on a date might be to Screw Your 
or a dress. Watches are always Roommate, don't screw your date 
taboo for formal occasions, but by looking like a prom queen from 
since all responsible students a bad horror movie. 
need to know when 2 a.m. rolls An SYR is neither a Models, Inc. 
around, wearing one may be a audition nor an opportunity to 
necessity. Even huge stop watch­rectify all those mistakes made at 
es may be very helpful to signal prom. Having fun should be pri­
when dance goers need to ... well, ority number one, but since those 
stop. Kodak moments are what remain, 
7} Small purses may be quite caring about appearance is 
convenient for gum, lipstick etc. understandable. Here are ten 
If a camera fits inside as well, helpful SYR reminders to address 
bonus. some of those never-ending fash­
8) Shower. Shave. Brush teeth. ion dilemmas. 
Men need constant reassurance 
1} High heels are definitely 

that women care. optional this season. They limit 
9) When it comes to makeup, your bust-a-move-ability and your 
more is less. A guy should rec­date will appreciate the lack of 
ognize his date. It's fun to look a puncture wounds. With all of the 
little different from the every day, cool suede and platform sneakers 
though. out now, finding a fun style or 
An important reminder: social color may eliminate blisters the 
gatherings in dorm rooms are next day. 
REALLY hot. Waterproof mas­As long as the Happy Hiker-look 
cara works well for anyone with a is avoided, boots are also good. 
tendency towards the sweaty side Die hard Birkenstock wearers are 
during dancing, or for walking a set with a wild pair of tights or 
date home in the rain. socks. And unless you're going 
Foundation will probably get with an Irish Guardsman, huge 
sweated, beveraged or kissed off, platform-heeled shoes have gone 
so it may not be necessary for the way of the dinosaur. 
everyone. 
2) Experimenting with color and 

10) Remember, the whole point fabric adds extra spice to any 
of an SYR is for good friends to ensemble, especially when it 
have a good time, not to look like comes to dresses. While the cot­
display mannequins from a ton candy look should be avoided, 
Macy's window. If any of these bright colors may accentuate your 
suggestions require more than ten mood. 
minutes, a change in the game .Black is always elegant and flat-
plan might be a good idea. ters almost everyone, but don't let 
Having the best dress or most your friends get too carried away. ~ wild hair may be fun, but are defi­
,.,_J_

This is a dance, not a funeral. '~ nitely not crucial. Looking good 
And remember, if you can't sit in ~ ,., may be an objective here, but 
it or bend over to change a CD, ,-'111M. 'tHt,e ZAM feeling good is much more impor­
don't wear it. 
~---·~----,---------------------------------------------------------~~~ tant. 

------~-----------.~-.--~--------------~-------------,------------------.---~--------~--------~-------~------------------­
Wednesday, September 27, 1995 

ACCENT ­
page 11 




Gentlemen 
The Observer/ Ashleigh Thompson 
The men of St. Edward's Hall pose in their comfortable, yet elegant SYR attire. 

The 

Charming Man 

By ASHLEIGH THOMPSON 
Assistant Accent Editor 
Y
ou can pick your date and you can pick your clothes, but you can't pick your date's clothes even though most girls probably wish they could. While guys may seem to have fewer options when it comes to spicing up SYR apparel, this should not serve as an excuse for what is really just a lack of imagination. 
The blue blazer, red tie and khakis, a fundamental Notre Dame male ensemble, has seen enough dances. Hopefully, creativity will take hold of campus this SYR sea­son and free the GQ individual in­side every guy. For those who still need a few guidelines, here are ten SYR fashion tips to make those women take notice. 
1) Blazers are a great aspect of any formal outfit and are really practical for colder weather, and amazingly enough come in other varieties besides navy wool. Earth colors, including all different shades of green and brown, go well with khakis and look very sophisti­cated. 
Even if you're not sure what taupe exactly is, go ahead and try it. Even gray is a nice color for winter. 
For those dandruff-free guys, black blazers could be cool for that whole living on the edge, Reservoir Dogs image. Big or small lapels, sports coat or double breasted, its all good. 
2) Khakis are really functional and match virtually anything, but pants in varied earth tones look good too. Corduroys look great during Fall and Winter, and are especially stylish right now. Those who would rather not go to an SYR than dress up can even get away with a nice pair of jeans. 
3) Ties. Polka dots, floral pat­terns, cartoon characters and abstract designs provide something a little more unconventional than the standard stripes. Bow ties can be very sexy on that intellectual man, if you can get away without anyone making a Pee-Wee Herman reference. If a tie absolutely cramps your style, vests look fabu­lous with the right blazer and are especially GQ. 
4) Suspenders, (or braces, for the traditionalist), add style to any out­fit. As long as they coordinate with the rest of the ensemble, they don't need to exactly match the tie. From a practical perspective, they'll help pants stay put when you feel the need to dance or if your date gets a little saucy, but beware of others that feel the need to snap them. Remember, if you opt for sus­penders, don't wear a belt. 
5) Accessories can make the dif­ference between looking nice and looking great. Wear a watch so your date can harass you all night by incessantly asking for the time. If wearing khakis is absolutely nec­essary, an interesting leather belt or a colorful canvas one can differ­entiate one set from another. Socks are a must and could be the most unique part of an outfit. Crazy pat­terns are always fun, and even argyles add a touch of sophistica­tion. 
Save the baseball caps only for absolute hair emergencies inside dorm rooms; never wear them to the actual dance. 
6) When it comes to footwear, being unconventional is the key. Colorful canvas or suede sneakers, not to be confused with gym shoes, can be a lot more comfortable than dress shoes. Docs or hiking boots might look great with more casual pants, and even Birkenstocks can coordinate with that earth tone concept. 
7) Deodorant is necessary. Cologne and after-shave are a nice touch, but applying too much may explain a date's incessant wheez­ing. 
8) Shower. Shave. Brush teeth. Women need constant reassurance that men care. 
9) Hair gel may be a good thing to contribute to a dapper appearance, but can be extremely disgusting if used in excess. If any appears on your shoulder or your date's, make a mad dash for the restroom. 
10) Yes, it is always more im­portant to have a good time in something you're comfortable in than to go all out and be worried about the dry cleaning bill. If blending in with the norm results in less self-consciousness, that's okay. Dressing in tie-dyed dress shirts may not be your style, but on the same note, never feel pressured to fit the mold. 
When all is said and done, clothes won't change the kind of date you are or how good of a time you have. If you're going to put effort into the evening, do it at the dance, not in the dressing room. 



The Sophisticated 
Woman 

r-­
1 
I 
Wednesday, September 27, 1995

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS
-
• SAINT MARY'S VO!..lEYBALL 


Mental errors prove costly for Belles as winning streak ends 
By STEPHANIE BUEK While Albion broke Saint At one time we sat at game -points, 17-15. However, they "Now that we know how we Spons Writer Marys' streak, the. Belles actual­point for seven exchanges. Lots did not fare as well in similar can play, it's very frustrating to ly defeated themselves. of times we stayed there for four situations in the final two lose to a team we should have Coming off of an impressive The Belles' mental mistakes or five side-outs. We had them. games, losing 14-16 and 11-15. beaten with no problem," said 
three-game winning streak played a pivotal role in the down, and we let them back in "It's definitely a matter of con­Dickey.against Wittenburg, Muskingum, 
game. According to Head Coach it; that kind of play is unaccept­sistency. We let our momentum Now 5-5 with their critical loss and Concordia College, the Saint Julie Schroeder-Biek, the Belles able." get away," said senior outside to regional contender Albion, Mary's College volleyball team 
played well enough to get to a Indeed, the Belles had ample attack Kelley Prosser. "We let the Belles must regroup and traveled to Albion College game-point situation, then failed opportunity to put Albion away them back in when we should focus on coming out strong in Monday night with the lofty to capitalize on their opportuni­in three matches. Splitting the have just rmished them off." their upcoming match with the goals of extending its streak, ties at key moments in the rtrst two games, 14-16 and 15-Sophomore middle/right University of Chicago. and advancing its record to 6-4. game. 12, Saint Mary's salvaged a vic­attack Arwen Dickey expressed Saint Mary's hosts the Losing in five games to an only "We just were not finishing the tory in the third, after allowing particular frustration with the University of Chicago at home in average Albion squad was not in game," Schroeder-Biek said. Albion to come back from an 0-7 Belles' step backward in light of the Angela Athletic Facilitythe game plan. "We would stop playing at 14. deficit to take the Belles to extra their recent winning streak. Thursday night. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. ar the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next·day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2

Classifieds 

cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. 
Eam $2500 & Free Spring Break Fall Break Plans? Sell me your stu­Sale USC STU TIX Seniors -HEY GUYSI I Trips! Sell B Trips & Go Freel Best dent converted to GA tickets. Katie Some Married 271-8154 Come to the Post-Graduate 
I. NOTICES TICKETS
Trips & Prices! Bahamas, Cancun, X40BB Volunteer & Service Fair tomorrow 
Jamaica, Florida! Spring Break Need 6 NAVY GAs Chris x4010 -Thurs. the 28th-at the Center for WEEKLY-MIDWAY TAVERN Traveii1-B00-678-6386 A DEVOTED IRISH FAN NEEDS NEEDED: 4 USC and 2 Navy GA Social Concerns. 7 • 9 p.m. Meet 810W4TH MISH. MON THE JAZZ GA'S TO ANY/ALL HOME/AWAY tickets. Call at 273-6374 ***TRADE-TRADE·TRADE-****1 the many agency reps and the FIRM 7:30-9:30 WED OPEN JAM 9 * * * FREE TRIPS & CASH * * * GAMES. 219·232-0061, 24 HRS. HAVE 2 OSU TICKETS WILL many, many ND/SMC men and PM THURS IRISH MUSIC 9 2BLKS Find out how hundreds of students 2 married STUD TIX BOOKLET 4 TRADE FOR 2 USC GA. CALL women who want to carry on S.OF 1 00 CTR 255-o458 NEED ID are already earning FREE TRIPS sale. Call271-9549 257-2020 OR 291·7649 THE Great NO Tradition · · DUKE TUMATOE LIVE OCT. 5 and LOTS OF CASH with America's TICKET·MART, INC. POST-GRADUATE SERVICE II 
#1 Spring Break company! Sell only WANTED I WANT SOMETHING I CAN FOR SALE -1 OSU GA BED & BFST LOVELY ROOM 15 trips and travel !reel Choose GA'S FOR ANY/ALL NEVER HAVE CALL ANN X236B knucklehead • that's two WITH PRIVATE BATH. SLEEPS 2-Cancun, Bahamas, Mazatlan, or HOME/AWAY NO GAMES. 1 NIN TIX for Oct 1, 273-1612 and eight... happy anniversary • k SMC & NO PARENTS & FRIENDS. Florida! CALL NOW! TAKE A BUY*SELL *TRADE $$$$$ Need 2 GAs for Navy. $$$$$ 272-5989 BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL (219) 232·0058 • 24 HAS. ..........PLEASE HELP!*'"'*******.. $$$$$Call Bryan at 2037. $$$$$$ Student Activities is accepting 
(800)95-BREAKI *NEED 1 NAVY GAl* applications for a Ballroom ND @ WASHINGTON • 2 Dbl Rms I NEED TIXS TO ALL HOME *CALL COLLEEN AT X2191* HAVE 2 OSU GAs 4 SALE Monitor and 24Hr. Lounge Monitor. Ramada Seattle Oct 6-7. Brunch for Guitarist and Singer looking for GAMES.272-6306 4th row field seats leave mess. with Pick up applications at 315 4 at Dukes on Lake & boat cruise drummer and bassist to put togeth· NEED 2 USC GA TIX Jason 4478 best bid X3252 LaFortune. Deadline Monday, to/from game. No game tkts. $600. er an Alternative Band Need 4 USC GAs & 2 BC GAs. Oct.2. Mike (206)575-0711. Call Ricky at 4-1248 Please call Cheryl x4BB3 WILL TRADE 2 OSU TIX 4 2 USC Any GAs for Washington? 
GAs X2855 Call LANCE x 2043 Tape 90210 tonight and get your tail Wanted: Servers, Asst. Cook, NEED 8 NAVY GA'S $$$USC stud Attention all Londomers Halloween over to Senior Bar for the Leo Dishwashers, and Cleaning person. tic to sell X2620 CALIFORNIA GIRLS NEED 2 USC 2 OSU tix FOR SALE Is fast approaching and we need to Burnett Presentation! 6:30 PM -Call The North Village Landing for TICKETS GA'S OR STUDENT Call John@ 219 277·5073 have all R.S.V.P. and contribution in Dress Casuallll your Interview. 272-8180 Need USC GA'S 1 USC stud. CALL X2089 ASK FOR PETE by Sept. 30 Please contact Nicole 
needed Matt 288-3823 usc usc usc usc Cook at 273-2780 or Emily Mily at Seeking In home child care for an I Need 3 tickets for ARMYI Four USC Tix needed 273· 9840 your promptness will 
ILOST & FOUND I 

adorable baby. 1-4 days/wk Need Tixlll OSU, BC, Navy Call Mike at 3258. stud. orGA greatly be appreciated thanks! IIIII! 
M-Th. 631·6561. call Tom 233-2289 Call Tom x3410 Found: Student ticket booklet. Call I NEED GA'S ME~N X3890 usc usc usc usc SKI ITALY Jenny S. at X4210. airfare,7 days room, meals, skiing 
FOR RENT 
Help Wanted: Need GAs for USC Need 1 USC Ticket Student or GA. 2 OSU TIX for SALE x3254 $750 ·call x1019 LOST: gold necklace with cross and -money no object. Brian x3692 Call Anne x4896. heart charm inscripted "Andy" on 2 BDRM HOME FOR RENT NEAR NIN NIN NIN NIN NIN NIN The two craziest guys In Flenner back. Please call 0930 If found!! CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES Wanted: 4 tickets together • any 1@#$%1@#$%!@#$%!@#$%1@# ticket (Oct1) for sale call x210B would definitely have to be Sammy· 
272-6306 home game Wanted: 2 tickets ND· I NEED 2-4 OH STATE GA'S Haggar and his FOUND: gold ring with features. In USC Call 1-800-922-BEAR day CALL JAY COLLECT @ Desperate alumni needs tix to Ohio roomate "The Pimpl" parking lot next to Infirmary HOMES FOR RENT NEAR NO 1-502-354·8826 collect in evening (614) 766·2012 AFTER 7PM State. Call Tom at 708·848·7992. between Stanford and St. Michaels 232-2595 1@#$%1@#$%1@#$%1@#$%@# Thank you St.Jude for prayers Laundry. Last week in August. Call USC GA TIX NEEDED 271·8154 Desperate Alumni needs tix to answered. x4205 to describe and claim. Roommate Problems? NEED 2 NAVY GA'S. CALL TOM Boston College. Call Tom at 708­
Affordable, clean furnished 1 bdrm Wanted: 1 -4 tickets for the Ohio AT X1899. 848-7992. BRIAN BOITANO & DEBI THOMAS LOST: man of my dreams. A.K.A. apt. sWI available In student occu· State game!! Call: 219-294-3250 head a cast of wortd-class skaters Joe Domer. Last seen on campus. pled 3 flat-$270-heat & water inc. ask for bill, call before11 am and Need 2 good tix for any of the dates COLUMBUS NATIVE WANTS TO coming to South Bend in SKATE Great-looking, very friendly, doesn't 755 South Bend Ave (1 block from after2pm 10/21, 10/28, 11/4. (515)486-2517 SEE HOME TOWN TEAM GET FOR LIFE on OCTOBER 4 at 7:30 bite. Needed for SYR or other activ­ND Ave) deposit, references 1-800-KILLED BY ND. EMILY @ 273-PM at the Notre Dame Joyce Ities. Call 4205 if found. 582-9320 TRADE: 2 B.C. tickets for the use Wanted two to four home game 9840 Center. Tickets are on sale at the 
WANTED 
of a car 10/27-29 call Matt x2177 tickets. Call or write. 314·731-7604 Notre Dame Box Office or call or Andrew x3255 Gary Goehl PO Box 4152 Notre Dame alum coming home for TicketMaster at (219) 272-7979. Sub lease available @ Turtle Cr. Hazelwood MO 63042 the USC game, tickets desparately 
for Spring sem. Call Jeff 273.4546 I need 5 USC tix. Stud. or GA needed. Ca,l 1)18·792-2882 Band ready to play out looking for ALASKA EMPLOYMENT • Students Please call Margaret x2286 $$ Rich Alumni needs GA's to all home bass player. call Dan 3549 Needed! Fishing Industry. Earn up 2 bedroomed apartment for rent. games. Call Tom at (312)280· I would DIE 4 UW TIXI X4072 to $3,000·$6,000+ per month. One mile from Notre Dame. Need 1-2 tix to SC game. 2591, Bill at (312)327-5329, or Greg TO THE PEOPLE THAT APPLIED Room and,Boardl Transportation! Possibility of keeping animal includ­Mel x1286 at (708)253·7997 Need 2 BC GA'sl TO BE ACCENT MOVIE CRITICSIII Male or Female. No experience ing horse, covered arena. 631-5118 Will trade 2 Navy GA's. You will kill me, but all those apps necessary. Call or277-582B B.C. TICKETS NEEDED Need GA's to any game Ryan x-1382 fell off my desk and were thrown (206)545-4155 ext A55841 $$$KEVIN X1233 Call Katie X1093 out. 
Nicely decor. rms for rent ftball Could you get them to me by earty 

PERSONAL

CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING­wknds 2 mi. N of campus, cont. brk­NEED 2 NO-USC TICKETS. CALL WILL TRADE 2 GA BC FOR 2 SC Friday morning? Earn up to $2,000+/month on fst, reduced rates, call Kim 277-DICK AT 714-870·0716 COLLECT. GA/STDNT TX. ALSO NEED 1 OR I am so sorry. Cruise Ships or Land-Tour compa­8340. 2 STDNT TEX TX. DON (714) 990· I @#$%&A*A%&A% Krista. 631-4540 nies. Wortd travel. Seasonal & full­0890. AAA House Party time employment available. No ZEP HOUSE '96·97 6 bedrms. NEED USC TIXI ALL INVITED! II WILL PAY $20!11 experience necessary. For more Beach V-ball ct.273-0482, 234·3831 CALL FRED AT 4364 NEED 2 BC GA'S. WILL PAY$$$$ ...for ride to Columbus on Friday Information caU 1·206·634-0468 ext: CALL JAMIE 271·8662 This Saturday-LaFortune Ballroom afternoon (prefer earty, but beggars C55841 NEED B.C. Ticket ·G.A. or S.A. 930pm -2 am can't be choosers). Call Josh at
FOR SALE 
Please call Anne 634-3445. I NEED TEXAS, USC & OHIO ST *@#*&%$&A%)&*)%( x1156. RIDE TO ND-OSU GAME. WILL GA TIXS.CONFIDENTIAL 272­SHARE COSTS AND DRIVING. 1985 Honda Hatchback NEED 2 BC TIXI I I II I I 6306 Looking for that special martial art? Beware of Lactose. PREFER TO SPEND FRI OR SAT $1000/Best offer 708·957·1546 Please give me a call, my dad will Aikido could be the one you've NIGHT AT OSU, BUT NOT NEC. (Chicago) Ask for Pete. New Tires pay ($$$) for the tlx. Kevin -117 ALUM WILL PAY $100 A TICKET been searching for. It is gentle yet Anyone selling 'Graceland, King is CALL MARC x0672 & Brakes. ' FOR USC OHIO STATE WASH firm; soft yet powerful; athletic yet Dead' shirts, call Ethan X185B. 
**I Have 2 U.S.C. GA's*• ga's personal use only 2773097 not too demanding. And it will sure­RIDERS WANTED NY/NJ to ND Camry 85, AC Cruise Cassette 4· Call Kristin @ 2377 ly sweep you off of your feetl Come Peggy, you're re-PAUL·sive. I am flying home and buying a car, door Standard 153k Good Condition PLEASE HELP II need 3 Navy GA's see our demo featuring Shihan but if I drive It back alone I think I $1900 273-1483 2 ND/OSU GA's FOR SALE Call Betsy @ x3727 Fumio Toyoda, 6th degree black Beth, will probably crash it. No gas $ BEST OFFER x3434 belt. 5p, Friday, Sep 29, Rm I got more rhymes than J.D.'s got nee., but I need you to spell me at BIKE FOR SALE.272-6306 301 Rockne. Wear sweats if you Salinger. I hold the title and your the wheel. Smokers welcome. NEED 3 NAVY G.A.'S. HAVE want to start training ($5)1 are the challenger. Call Josh@ 277-9071 '88 Toyota Tercel, 68k mi., excel. TWO STUD. USC TIX TO TRADE ·Grogan #14 
cond., AIC, good mileage. $3,500 or OR UPGRADE. CALL NICOLE I NEED TICKETS FOR THE Renaldo· I NEED A RIDEI going to Cleveland blo. 277·3503. X4905 WASHINGTON GAME. Please where overalls!! Beware Senior bar patrons, leave Sept 29? will help w/ $ & driving CALL CHRIS 4-4204 3 horny women your white slacks in the closet Call Dan 4-1740 I@#$#A%*A&%#@ @#$$% Will trade 4 Navy GA's for 2 USC cause Rexy's gonna scatter the 
If you like BASS, you'll like this GA's. Call Erin at #4021 0C0C0C0C0C0C0C0C0C0C0 ashes tonlte. -Randal 
ND MBA WIFE STUD. 150 watt 15" QUALITY COPIES, QUICKL VIII will babysit fuiVpart time in your/ SUBWOOFER osu osu osu osu osu Buying OSU stud. tix $100 please THE COPY SHOP Legalize weed and I'll say "Thank my place SANDRA 2878840 Caii4·166B Who really wants to see Notre call Brian @ 634·3322 LaFortune Student Center Heavens." ·LANCE 
#@$%&A*(()A&A%#$#$ Dame stomp OSU? If that is you Phone 631-COPY I need a ride to Iowa City Sept.29-and you need 2 tix give Josh a call $$ PLEASE HELP $$ 0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0 A fish bowl will emerge from the Going that way?Call Leah x3735 Going to Med. School? at 277·4478. '94 ND ALUM NEEDS ruins. Fear not people. 
Ward's Science Company BC & USC STUD OR GA TIX The Days of Our Lives Flexible work sched.: about1-Microscope HELP! Need USC tickets, will pay CALL 516-326·2659 Correspondents are looking to Can we call Sara tonite? 2hr/day Sat am. about 10-15/wk. Brand New, Top of the line! lots,call Michelle,634·2497 expand their soap opera coverage. Need responsible, energetic, friend· Very Powerful and Accurate 4 USC Tickets for Sale. If you watch any soap every day If anyone's looking for some good ly person to help keep store Call Phillip, 273 • 6540 FOR SALE 2 BC GAs. Call4-4831. religiously (except Days) call Erin or human waste, there still might be clean/prepare classrooms. Call 708-328·3019 Christina, or heck, even Krista at some left in front of NOH. Erica's 233-3120 M W F 9-2 or Brand New 25 Gal. Fishtank I have 2 Ohio St. GAs for sale. 634-4220. You have to be willing to Cathy 277-9661. Outdoor help All Accesories included ND ALUM NEEDS OHIO ST/ARMY Asking $500 for both or best offerl write at least 200 words a week on maybe we'll end up going to needed also. Call Philip 273 · 6540 TIX CALL MIKE 212·574·1071 Call Matt at X·3931 that soap. We're waiting ... Canada anyway. 
Wednesday, September 27, 1995 The Observer. SPORTS page 13 
------------------------------------~~~~~=-~~~~~----------------------------------------------~~-­
History 
continued from page 16 
Entrepreneur's Delight 
At least seven different com­panies have been officially li­censed to produce t-shirts com­memorating Saturday's game. That figure does not include the numerous underground ven­dors who have been banking on this game for a year. 
Poised Powlus 

Holtz's considerable aamira­tion for quarterback Ron Powlus continues to grow al­most daily. 
"Ron Powlus does so many things instinctively," Holtz 
appraised. "He is the leader of the team and is more intelli­gent. His mind is a computer. Plus, he throws a great deep ball." 
The Numbers Game 
A number of Notre Dame players opened then 1995 cam­paign with new numbers. This trend was most popular among linebackers, as juniors Bert Berry (13), Kinnon Tatum (2), and Lyron Cobbins (6) all sport­ed new numbers. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
RecSports-RecSports is of­fering campus Ultimate Fris­bee, Campus Co-Ree Inner-tube Water Polo and IH and Grad/Fac/Staff Racquetball Singles for both men and women. The entries begin Sept. 20 and the deadline is Sept. 27 at 5:00 p.m. The cap­tain's meeting for Water Polo is 5:30p.m. and Frisbee at 6:15 
p.m. on Sept. 28 in the Joyce Center Auditorium. Any ques­tions please call 1-6100. 
Horseback Trail Ride-

Many observers figured the changes were more of fashion statement than anything else. However, in Cobbins case, there is significance beyond the intimidation factor. 
"I wanted to do something to honor my mother Louise," Cobbins explained. "I'm the sixth boy in the family so the number six makes sense. Plus, it looks good." 
Fast Company 
Quietly, tailback Randy 
Kinder is joining some heady .... 
names in the Irish record book. 
The junior has already amassed nine games in which he gained at least 100 yards. This figure puts Kinder fifth on the all-time list, with names such as George Gipp and Allen Pinkett ahead of him. 
With at least 18 more games left in his career, it is not in­conceivable that Kinder could pass Pinkett's high of 21. 

RecSports will be sponsoring a trail ride on Sunday, October 1 & October 8. Transportation will be provided and you must register in advance at Rae­Sports. Participants must have ridden a horse at least once. The fee is $15.00. 
Domer Runs-The runs will take place on Saturday, October 7 at 11 :00 a.m. There will be a 3 and 6 mile run. Participants can register in advance at RecSports for $5.00 and on the day of the race for $6.00. 
Jazz Dance-RecSports will be offering a jazz dance class on Monday & Wednesday from 
6:30 -7:45 pm. There will be an info meeting on Monday, October 9 at 6:30 in Rockne Rm. 219. The fee for the class will be $25.00 and registration will start October 10. 
In-Line Skating Clinic­RecSports is offering a clinic on Monday, October 9 at 5:15 in the South Parking lot of the Joyce Center. The fee is $5.00. 
Aikido Demonstration­The ND Aikido Club will be hosting a demonstration of this self-defense oriented martial art featuring Shihan Fumio Toyoda, 6th degree black belt. Aikido techniques include throwing, joint-locking, strik­ing, and pinning. Demo: 5:00 p.m., Friday, September 29th, Rm 301 Rockne. 
Women's Lacrosse -Fall practice is 4-6pm on Mondays and Wednesdays at Stepan Field. Call Allison at 239-7924, Erin at x2639, or Tara at x1392 with any questions. 
Boxing Club -The Boxing Club will be having a mandato­ry meeting for all novice boxers on Wednesday, October 4th. The meeting will be held at 
4:30 in the Boxing Room locat­ed in the JACC. Enter gate 6. Questions? Call Mike at 232­1726. 

TRUIWAN SCHOLARSHIP 
lnforn1at:lon Meet:ln& for 

JUNIORS lntereat:ed ln Public Service 
Wednesday, September 27, 1993 4:30 -3:13 p.ID. 114 O'Shaughneaay Hall 
RESPONSIBILITY CHALLENGE AND THE CHANCE TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE 

ZS ASSOCIATES IS AN INTERNATIONAL ~IANAGHIENT CONSlll:rtNG 
FIR~IIlEDICATEil TO HELPING CO~IPANIES ACHIEVE LON(; LASTING CO~IPETITI\'E ADVANTAGE IN ~IAIU\ETING AND SALES . 
ZS \\'ILL BE ON CMIPliS RECRUITING 
Operatio11s Researrh A11a~vsts 
OPERATIONS RESEARCH ANALYSTS IIAVE A BS, MS OR P11.D. IN INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING, OPERATIONS RESEARCH, APPLIED MATHE~IATICS, STATISTICS, PHYSICS OR A RELATED FIELD. 
jOIN US FOR A PRESENTATION AND RECEPTION 
Ortober Sth 
7:00pm -9:00pm 
Ut~iversity Club Mai11 Lou11ge 
Fo11 "Hlii\IATIO': OFFICES: 
7...\'AssfJddlrs t·:t"llll.<lflll. Illinois 

zs 
11111111111 Reso11rre.< Prinr~'/tm, .\'tor..t•}tl:\'1")' 
1811t1Sht•I1Jirlf/ tlt't'llllt' .1/n!lo f',ul:. (.(J/ijomifl 
t•:mll.<trm. II. fill!ilf NratlitJJ!,, /•.'I!J!,ItJml 
n-:t.: lii8.-19!.J6il{l 

l•i\.\": 711.~.116-1.6!811 
-
f 
I 
I 
-
page 14 
The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, September 27, 1995 
IH 
continued from page 16 Christy Oleniczak to make the score 7-6. An aggressive decision to go for a two point conversion and the clear win ended with PW freshman defensive back Sarah Kolasa tipping away the pass to preserve the Weasel victory. "Both teams played very well, but it was great to come out on top," Weasel coach Tom Fatur said. 
Lewis 8, Off-Campus 7 
The battle between these two top ten teams was not to be de­c1ded until late in the 

-
with second ranked Lewis pulling out the victory over an intense Off-Campus squad 8-7. 
In the second half, though, the action picked up. Off­Campus running back Patti Vassallo scored first on a five yard touchdown burst off a trap right. 
Charo Gonzalez finished off the Off-Campus offense for the night, running in a pitch from quarterback Erin Nicholas to add the extra point . 
From that moment on, how­ever, Lewis quarterback Liz Talarico took control of the game and proved why she is one of the top quarterbacks in the league. Talarico engi­neered a nail-biting, two 
The Observer/Brent T adsen 

Lewis quarterback Liz Talarico threw the winning touchdown pass to beat Off-Campus 8-7. 
Cleveland Signstage 
Theatre's national touring 
production of Mark Medoff's 
Tony-Award winning drama 




Children 
ofa 

Lesser 
God 

One Show Only! 
Friday • Sept. 29 8:00P.M. 
For ticket information, call 219/284-4626 Mon.-Fri. 9p.m.-5p.m. 
minute offensive drive culmi­nated in a thrilling touchdown connection to Meg Schlosser with only fourteen seconds left on the clock. 
A successful two point conversion off a screen pass to Emily Miller sent the Lewis faithful into well-deserved cele­bration of their hard-fought win. 
Farley 18, Knott 12 

After a promising victory in the first week of play, Knott was poised to move even high­er than their ninth ranking. However, win number two proved to be slightly more elu­sive, as Fariey's Finest knocked down the Angels 18-12. 
Four interceptions and a strong running game by the Farley squad ended up being too much for Knott to over­come. 
Farley running back Camille Clinton had an outstanding game, starting off the scoring with a 19 yard touchdown reception, although the extra point failed. 
Not to be outdone, Knott came roaring back with an 
explosive fifty yard touchdown run to even the score. 
Knott began the scoring in the second half with another touch­down on an option right, but once again the extra point attempt was foiled. 
The women of Farley refused to give up, and quickly replied with a scoring drive of their own orchestrated by the hard­nosed running of Clinton. 
Later, Clintont ran a sweep to the left for a touchdown with 
1:38 on the clock to secure a Farley victory. 
"We put in a lot of effort and spirit and our team should be proud of ourselves, but we are not used to playing the fa­vorite," Knott coach Bill Carney said. "Don't take anything away from Farley, they have a great team." 
Brian, to a Super Son on his 21st Birthday. 
Y/(om & 7Jad 
I. 

It was just a summer job. Now it's the rest of your life. 
Remember when your biggest career concern was running out of paper cups? And when it was easy to handle any summer job because it was just a summer job? 
@ 

Now you're graduating. You want a career that will challenge you every day and iD 
!!?

offer a variety of responsibilities. You want to work where the learning curve )> 
Q

doesn't flatten out after a couple of years. ::> 
ffi 
::> 
"' 
()

At Andersen Consulting, our challenges change 
0 
iE 
c

daily, like the world in which we work. Our job is 
ANDERSEN 
"' 5

to help clients do what they do. Only better. 
'!" 
)>
CONSULTING 
)> 
1.»

Come talk to us about a career with Andersen 
() 
p

Consulting. V>
Where we go from here: h 

Andersen Consulting IS an equal opportunity employer. 
Andersen Consulting will host a Career Day on Monday, October 2 from 10:00 a.m.-5:00p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Casual attire is appropriate. All majors welcome. Come see how yours fits in with Andersen Consulting. 
THIS FRIDA~

DON'T LEAVE FOR COLUMBUS 
SATURDAY

WITHOUT IT. 
&SUNDAY 
notre dam~ 

men's tenn1s 

WE'RE ~lORE Tllr\N JUST SPORTSWE:\R. 

Wednesday, September 27, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page I 5 
--------------------------------------~----------------------------­

EVERYONE DOESN'T DRINK 
YOU CAN BELIEVE ANYTHING YOU WANT. BUT THE TRUTH IS, MORE THAN ONE THIRD OF COLLEGE STUDENTS SELDOM OR NEVER DRINK ALCOHOL. SO WHAT DO THEY DO INSTEAD? WHY NOT ASK THEM. 
ALCOHOL ABUSE HURTS ALL OF US 
Taken from: FACE -Facing Alcohol Concerns Through Education Sponsored by: Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 
DAVE KELLETI IiiIS, Of C··~s ..,l/l<LL lt<.pt.A<<-o..,._
Lfe~~~!t~EEl!oe. No Lo,..C,.eR (IH!I-£1<~ (PI"I'IOtJIC.P~t••" 'S'\u£m...
WtlL i·" !We. To C.AU. lh 1\-r \.k<~Ot>l-'\ 1\oult." To ~L Us Wli :r: s;.., tJ-W~AT {'(\tSSf'ELLE.O ''rHI..E£.1N'T\c.: fp.om ~E \\Ecl(.1>o£<; •FouR 
;===~=::::::::~ Nov! Ot<, Y.,!.-r EmAIL Us AT tool> u£lDilfS Of Ttn:. "o.-~;ci.J ~1\e·\\. 1'\''\! I\ILE~..,.,. ~ Apoe~.c~~E~ (1teAI!._, l@n.!.e.do~" 'DoESI-\A~E A ' AN~IIIA'1 ?! -"",: 
-~ .. ,... h-... 
'-.. 

,\1\\D '9::>, ,b.,F\ER 1\ n\RIT Mlf\liJIT. DC>'NN.POI.JR , fiE BECP..\-1\E LUDICR<Y-lSL'{ 
P,TT\REO FOR 1\-\E RES\ or; 11-\E DA'( . 
DILBERT scorr ADAMS 
PEOPLE ARE... 50 STUPID THE'( SHOULD PAY ME TO LISTEN TO THE.1R OPINIONS. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 24 Johns of "Mary 46 X-ray units Poppins" 47 Scale 
1 L.A.-to-Seattle 
26 Out-of-sorts 48 Vacillatedir. 

Clara? 
51 Happy Eliot? 

4 Afrikaner 30 Renaissance 54 Coy Joey? 
8 Explorer's aids fiddle 56 Sea bird12 Honolulu's 31 Cowl 57 Yugoslav hero 
island 32 French miss, for 58 Isn't upright 
14 Lofty home short 59 Attracted
15 Pavarotti selection 33 Black cuckoo &o TV problem 
34 Self-absorbed &1 Like the White 
person Rabbit 16 Gyrate 

11 Magnificent Julia? 37 "-~ hail!" 
&2 Longing 

19 Recalcitrant 38"-­
Lucille? Breckinridge" DOWN 
21 Duck's gait 40 Miners' quest 1 Snack 22 Master of 41 Spanish 2 California wine unsavory film soldier-hero region
roles 43 Blue Jeremy? 3 Spinning Larry? 
23 Geometric shapes 45 Volleyball shots 4 Uncle Millie 5 Kind of surgery & German article ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
7 Sunburned James? 8 Muslim messianic belief 23 ----Rivieres. 42 Delineated 49 Leprechaun's 
turf

Que. 44 Postwar Austrian so Outer: Prefix9 Nonfertile 24 Lab weights 10 Disagreeable chancellor 51 Steps leading 
person 25 Austrian singer 45 Rebuffs down to the 
11 "Smooth 26 Pigeon coops 
Ganges47 SplittingOperator" 27 Mournful Chuck? 

52 Snick and -­imagesinger 28 Dragon puppet 53 Stitched48 Coli. entrance

-:::-+=+:'7+::-i 13 Ruined 

29 Fuses exams 55 Vast expanse 14 Culture 31 Satanic feature 
mediums 35 Angelic George? 
-:::+-=-+=+=++-o-l 18 What lots have Get answers to any three clues lots of 3& Not too hot 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­-=-+:-:+.:+.::-1 20 Fanny of 39 Fliers' 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
vaudeville performance 

YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1995 
(For your personalized daily Jeane Dixon horoscope, based onyour own date of birth, call 1-900-988-7788. Your phone company will btl! you 99 cents a minute.) 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Try­NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: ing to do everything yourself will Be compassionate and you will only cause irritating scenes with oth­make tremendous gains at horne. A ers. Welcome an offer of assistance. child will recover more quickly Sticking to a schedule may be the when showered with attention and only way to complete a complicated affection. Your business and finan­job assignment on time. cial goals change for the better. A LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): romantic relationship needs work if Today should be anything but dull! 
you want it to recapture its former A difference of opinion may call for luster. A fresh start is the key to a frantic reworking of a schedule or future strength. Stand by a falsely presentation. Be respectful but firm accused friend. when refuting someone's argu­
CELEBRITIES BORN ON ments. Quiet confidence wins the THIS DAY: golfer Kathy Whir­day. 
IPlease Recycle The Observer I 
worth, actress Sada Thompson, SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): American patriot Samuel Adams, You may have to forego a romantic singer Shaun Cassidy. interlude in order to honor a prior 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): commitment. Look your best when Temporary confusion could result attending a business luncheon or from unplanned developments at dinner. You never know you may sit work. Be practical; stay out of point­next to you! less arguments. Someone is eager to SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. share their interest in ceramics, pho­21): Some head-turning encounters tography or music with you. are in store today. Your powerful 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): personal magnetism attracts new Try to narrow the gap between your admirers. Do not be discouraged by spiritual and material worlds. Use a heavy workload. See difficult your artistic talents to el\press an tasks as a test of your faith. Forge el\alted vision. Widening your social ahead. horizons will unite you with people CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. who share your quest for knowledge. 19): Intense reactions at home or a 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Be disagreement at work could tem­careful not to lose momentum by porarily slow progress. Financial wasting time on chitchat and gossip. success comes to those who are Stay on course in important enterpris­inventive. Work in harmony with a es. An ingenious idea strikes later partner instead of bickering. Curb a today! Balance your decisive manner critical streak. with a warmhearted approach. AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You receive good news from close Launch a major career initiative friends. The papers you want may today and tomorrow. The next few be delayed in the mail. An element days will find you frantically jug­of good luck is still present. You 
gling work and family demands. find an ingenious solution to a Plan wisely for your financial future. recurring problem. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Tackle PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Put odd jobs in the early morning. Oth­your imagination to good use in the ers acknowledge your skills as a arts. You can make big profits with savvy diplomat or educator. Resolve innovative styles and designs! An a family dispute with gentle, healing alliance you form now will last for humor. Laughing at your own many years. Pour on the charm foibles shows your good nature. tonight. 
Yilt 
:'. OF INTEREST 
. Former Chilean President Patricio Aylwin will speak Thursday at 9 P.M. in Keenan Commons on "The Challenges of Democracy in Latin America." The talk is part of the Keenan Hall Lecture Series. 
Juggter Is seeking submissions. Submit poetry, prose, short stories and art work to 356 O'Shaughnessy by October 2. 
$CW$}
~©#Attention Wrestlers: Informational meeting 
Thursday, Sept. 28 at 7 P.M. in the Wrestling Room at ;Jhe JACC near the Rec Sports Office. 
.~: .. ::.: :>;.=;.,, . 
Interested In studying abroad In Santiago, 
Chile? Informational meeting with Professor Silvia Rojas-Anadon on Wednesday, Sept. 27 at 4:30 P.M. in 201 DeBartolo. Returning students will be on hand to answer questions. 
Interested In going abroad to Jerusalem? An 
infonnational n;1eeting will be held Wednesday, Sept. 27 at 4:30P.M. in 143 DeBartolo. 
• MENU 
Notre Dame 
North South 
Pork Fried Rice Grilled Pork Chops
Mexican Beef Pizza Grilled Turbot 
Chicken Tetrazzini Irish Brown Potatoes 
Saint Mary's 
•
Roast Turkey Breast 
Old Fashioned Beef Stew 
Brussels Sprouts 




SPORTS 
• 

The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Sophomore Safety Jarvis Edison is expected to be out for a month. 
Holtz brushes up on Buckeye history 
By TIM SHERMAN had an eye on this game all Associate Sports Editor season long. 
"We keep joking with the 
In the field of coaching, players to not expect to much there are a number of aca-from Edwards, he is saving demic disciplines that may himself for Ohio State," ex­prove beneficial along the way. plained Holtz. For example, an aspiring "This is going to be a big coach obtaining a degree in an game for me personally," area like psychology, physical Edwards said. "I have a lot of education:, or· sports manage-friends from high school who ment may not be such a bad go there and I know how big of idea. a game it is." 
co~~~r~o~~~~ 1996 IRlSirt; Injury Update 
added another  ·  " .  ·  ./ 1  !  During the third  
subject matter  quarter  of  last  
to that list-his­ week's 55-27 victo­ 
tory.  ry against Texas,  
The comman- Irish safeties LeRon  
der of the Irish  Moore and Jarvis  
has been a ver- Edison collided in  
itable encyclo­ mid-air in pursuit  

pedi_a of infor-f··_,"AI;'\~1 AijL,·. of an errant UT matlon on a ... "'Vi• ~~-... pass. 
wide variety of topics this week, not the least of which was Notre Dame's epic 19-13 victory over Ohio State in 1935. 
"I studied everything about that game and watched the video," Holtz said. "It was an amazing game. The irony of it was one of the Columbus papers went to print before the final and put the headline 13-12. Thirteen years later to the exact day, the Chicago Tribune printed 'Dewey beats Truman.'" 
Eager Edwards 
Holtz is not the only one who is anxious to visit Columbus. 1992 Ohio high school player of the year Marc Edwards has 

Moore came down with the ball, Edison came down with badly bruised abdominal muscles. 
The sophomore free safety who has been used extensively in passing situations is ex­pected to miss up to a month. 
Flanker Charles Stafford is another recent addition to the growing injury list with a sprained knee. 
The mounting injury toll con­cerns Holtz. 
"The thing that concerned me most starting the season was that we'd lose one or two players every week," Holtz said. "That is what has been happening." 
see HISTORY I page 13 Wednesday, September 27, 1995 
• Vm.LEYSAU. 

DePaul quickly dismissed 
Two records fall in Irish's brief trip to Chicago 
By BETSY BAKER Sports Writer 
They came. They saw. They conquered. 
This describes the record set­ting match of the tenth-ranked Notre Dame volleyball team last night. The Irish 15-2, 15­1, 15-2 victory over DePaul set school records for the shortest length of a match, finishing off the Blue Demons in forty min­utes, and for allowing only five points. 
The Irish pummeling of the Blue Demons was led by sopho­more outside hitter Jaimie Lee and sophomore middle blocker Molly McCarthy who collected seven kills each. Defensively, outside hitter Kristina Ervin and sophomore setter Carey May led the team with six digs each, while freshman Lindsay Treadwell proved to be a force at the net with six block assists. 
Irish head coach Debbie Brown complimented the play of her team, especially the absence of costly errors which have had a tendency to plague the Irish team this year. 
"Everyone played really well tonight," Brown said. "DePaul was never able to put any pres­sure on us and we made very few errors." 
The Observer/Brent Tadsen 

Setter Carey May shined defensively last night against DePaul with six
"We just came in and did the 
digs as the Irish allowed only five points. 
job and left." 
The easy defeat over DePaul tonight which puts us in great first-ever match as a member improved the Irish record to shape for the weekend," Brown of the Big East. Then it is off to 11-1, giving them a chance to said. Philadelphia for the Irish where not only rest some of their The upcoming weekend is of they hope to become 2-0 in starters for the weekend, but special significance for the Irish conference play with a victory also give some of the other because it will be their intro-over Villanova. players valuable experience, duction into the Big East "We expect this weekend to adding to the depth of the team Conference. be very competitive," Brown overall. The team will travel to said. "Georgetown and 
"We got to rest some starters Washington D.C. on Friday to Villanova are two of the better 
take on Georgetown in their teams in the conference.'' 


eiliiith~ m~fquee hiatchii~p of ...· ven~~ pr6ltd 
to be a hard-fought battle betyreen the 
.. Pa.s(Jl.l.erilla,si E~~t versus \o\'l!St _,,._ 
·· PWtookcontrol early and 'held on to beat their neighbors 7-6. <· The ga~e st(!,rted liffslo.~ly, With both defenses holding strong. • But on PW's se~ond drive, quar~ t~rb.ack; Li~ McKillop threw a>48" yard pass down the middle. On theJiext play, the Weasels. scored on a 28~yard run by junior tail· back. Megan Shepherd. The m~mentl;lpl continued With. PW when they. got the extra point for a 7-0lead; .:r, • The fourth-ranked Weasels dominated the fifth-ranked Pyros on the. next drive. 

Sophomore defensive linemanMaryHepburn; who was Player of the Week last week, tor­
mented the PE offensive line with speed and 
.power. The half ended with a "Hail Mary" bomb by PE's freshman quarterback Elizabeth 
.. ~lfo~~1fo~~ connected just two yards short of 
In the second half, three consecutive penal­ties stalled the PW offense. PW pinned the Pyros back on their own three yard line. In turn, the Pyros shifted toward an air attack to get their offense back on track. 
"We needed to move the ball more than in the first half, so we focused more on our passing to be effective." Plummer commented. 
With that strategy in mind, she 
drove the Pyros ninety-seven yards for a touchdown on a number of consecu­tive shod passes to Becky Moraris and Karen Randesi. Plummer was at it again as she dropped in a 14-yard touchdown pass to 

Football Women's Soccer 
• Sports Briefs 

vs. Ohio State 
at Cincinnati September 29, 7:00 p.m. September 30, 2:30 EST 
at Ohio State October 1, 2:00 p.m. 
see page 13


SPORTS 

Volleyball Cross Country • Belles three-games win streak ends at 
... vs. Georgetown September 30, 3:00p.m. Notre Dame Invitational, 
vs. Villanova October I, 2:00 p.m. 
October 6, T.B.A

ata­
the hands ofAlbion 

~en's Soccer SMC Sports 
vs. Loyola Marymount September 28, 
Volleyball vs. Chicago, September 28 see page 12 7:30p.m. 7:00p.m.
GLANCI 





