

Wednesday, May 3, 1995• Vol. XXVI No. 133 
NDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME ', ' 
T: k t th The Observer/Shelley Sullivan 
.a e ou e papers and the trash! 
SMC to host GLND/SMC dialogue 
By NORA MEANY N..ws Writer 
A forum to diseuss the place of GLND/SMC in the Saint Mary's eommunity will be held by the Committee in Support of GLND/SMC at Saint Mary's Col­luge. 
Max Westler, an English teacher at Saint Mary's, de­scribes this debate as "the be­ginning of a discussion at the end of the semester." It is not mea~t to finalize the issue by commg to an agremnent over the plaee of homosexuals in the community, but rather to "begin a dialogue." 
The meeting will begin with several speakers giving their opinions concerning the policy set by the school regarding the hom?sexual support group meetmg on campus. 
. J~hn Blandford and Kelly Smith, the co-chairs of GLND/SMC, are slated to talk. Joe lncandela. a religion tt:acher at Saint Mary's, will g1v~ the religious reasoning behmd the policies. and Mary Caputi, a political science teacher, will speak concerning gender study. Sarah Sullivan, the ~aint M~ry's student body president, w1ll also speak. Fi­nally, a representative from the Notre Dame Committee on Tolerance will talk. 
.Following the speakers will be a group discussion includ­ing any faculty, students and administration from the two schools who wish to attend. In this discussion, people will have the chance to voice their opinion concerning homosexu­ality and the GLND/SMC meet­ings. 
"This meeting is meant to in­clude all parts of the college community. We hope to ad­dress many different points of dialogue through this discus­sion." Westler said. 
"The meeting will be very in-
see GLND/SMC/ page 6 
Golden Dome renovation begins 
ByMAITHEWLOUGHRAN News Writer 
For many it is the first view of the University of Notre Dame seen before landing in Mishawaka Regional Airport or from the tollway before enter­ing South Bend. 
It has been the backdrop of many romantie and inspiring camera shots on NBC during home football games. But now, the most recognized symbol of the University of Notre Dame is due for cosmetic surgery. 
Scaffolding and fencing were ereeted on Monday and Tues­day around the Main Building and its Golden Dome as con­tractors began the first com­plete renovation in its 116 year history this week. 
The first part of this renova­tion is a complete exterior overhaul. This is estimated to cost $5 million. 
A major portion of the work will go towards restoration and cleaning of the 4.3 million bricks of marl and replacing the roof. 
"There have been numerous projects to fix the bricks, and all structural problems have been fixed," said Dennis Brown 
of  the  University  Public  
Relations Department.  "This is  
just a basic cleaning."  

The dome itself will not be renovated. It was regilded in a previous project in 1988 at the cost of $300,000. 
Also planned to be renovated are window hoods and the base of the statue of Mary. Windows in the dome area and on the fifth floor will be replaced, and minor electrical and mechanical modifications will be made. 
The main building houses many of the University's administrative offices, includ­ing the Registrar, Provost, and President's Offices. "We have been assured that daily opera­tions will not be upset by the construction," said Brown. 
The lire escapes that line the building will be removed. Due to the fire alarms and sprinkler system, they are no longer nec­essary, Brown said . 
It is ironie that the fire es­capes are to be removed be­cause the building had its genesis in a fire that claimed the former administration offices,. dining facilities, library collectwn, and classrooms in April of 1879. 
The building was commis­sioned by Father Edward Sorin, then the president of Notre Dame, upon his return to Notre Dame from Montreal after learning about the fire. "If it were all gone, I should not give up," Sorin is reported to have said, "Tomorrow we will build again, and build it big­ger" 
That is just what they did. The design of the building was drawn up by Chicago architect Willoughby Edbrooke. It took three hundred laborers all summer to construct much of the current building out of marl dredged from the two campus lakes. 
The Golden Dome, the most well-known portion of the building, was added in 1882 and is topped with a 19-foot tall, 4,000 pound statue of 
• fACULTY SENATE 

Appeals debate tops meeting 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE 
Assistant News Editor 
Financial aid, appeals procedures, and student athletes were topics of dis­cussion last night, as the Faculty Senate wrapped up business for the 1994-95 academic year. 
One of the resolutions passed at last night's meeting concerned appeals pro­cedures described in the Academic Arti­cles. The Executive Committee Resolution asks "that the Faculty Senate send the Academic Affairs Committee ' 

. The Observer/Shelley Sullivan R~n~va!1on to !~e Golden Dome will include the restoration of the bUJidl!lg s 4.3 m1lhon bricks. 
Mary that was a gift from Saint demands special considera­Mary's College. tions in the renovation. 
The building was entered "The construction cannot in­into the National Register of volve a wholesale change in the Historic Places in 1978. The historical landmark status 
see DOME/ page 6 
Father Wilson Miscamble questioned why the Senate should be involved in the appeals procedure. He suggested that "the Senate be careful as a repre­sentative body involved in the appeals procedure." 
In response to this statement, Chair of the Faculty Senate Father Richard McBrien noted that "the credibility of the Senate as a representative body is not the issue at hand." 
According to Paul Rathburn, associate 
see SENATE/ page 6 
proposal on appeals to the Provost for his endorsement and enactment and that it also be sent to the Academic Council for its approval, with the recommendation that the Council incorporate the proposal into a revision of the Academic Articles of the University." The resolution specifically refers to section 3, 4, and 9 of Article III.

Students take the liberty of using the lot behind Flanner as their own personal trash Prior to the voting on this resolution,dumps. 
This is the last regular issue for the 199495 school year. The graduation issue will come out on May 19. Have a safe and pleasant summer. 


page2 The Observer • INSIDE day, month, year 
• INSIDE CoLUMN 


Confessions of a transfer student 
It happened a little over --""!!"!~~-­two years ago. I had Ed Imbus called my brother from Associate News Editor 
my dorm at the University of California, Santa Cruz, to ask some innocu­ous question-I don't even remember what it was now·-'-when he mentioned in passing that a letter had come from ND. 
I had determined some time before that my chances of going to Notre Dame were slimmer than The Observer's Saint Mary's staff. It just wasn't going to happen. UCSC didn't give grades; professors wrote a paragraph as to how a particular student did in their class, some­thing that admissions officers despise because it's not readily comparable like the GPA. While I had been active in various clubs and activities (as I have been here as well, to the huge detri­ment of that GPA thing), the only thing keeping any hope I had to go to Notre Dame was sup­portive friends. 
Take my advice and listen to your friends. I asked my brother to open the letter for me and read the two perfunctory paragraphs upon the page. He did, and I jumped. I'd been accepted. My brother complained of being slightly deaf for a few minutes after ... 
Stars were in my eyes for the longest time. Yes, I was going to give up a huge amount by transferring, including some things (and peo­ple) that I hadn't fully considered at the time. By going to NO, I would need to spend an extra year-"to earn the Notre Dame degree" another letter said -the senior seminar I had completed would not count as such, and I would no longer be a Fightin' Banana Slug. 
Still, the Loubt was small, if any. I was off to undertake the biggest adventure of my life. 
I wasn't disappointed; an adventure it has been. Notre Dame is 179 degrees different than Santa Cruz. The only similarity is that both are universities with top-notch history and science programs. 
I knew that at Notre Dame I would not get the chance to say "My RA, Alison, is in the quad" or wake up at 5 am for the only good reason to do so: surfmg. Notre Dame would actually have Republicans -a very rare species indeed at UCSC. But then, I wouldn't need to keep explaining to people who honestly didn't under­stand why Sinead ripping up a photo of the Pope angered me. 
When I actually arrived, a couple of other surprises also awaited me. It took my new RA about three hours to convince me that parietals weren't some extraordinarily sick joke he was making up for a naive transfer. He didn't have the copies of DuLac to point to yet, but he did have a cruel sense of humor. 
. The pastoral relationship was something 
new, too. I vaguely knew about it; I thought it 
meant that priests were around if you needed 
one. It actually meant that the University 
would make or change policy without consult­
ing students first. 
Then I joined The Observer staff and found 
that ND indeed is a living institution that can 
indeed change for the better. although at times 
reluctantly. The library monitors won't check 
another pack again. 
To all those whom I may have offended or 
otherwise angered, I apologize. I wish the best 
to you, and I hope you do the same for me. Any 
agitation I gave was to make the ND experience 
better for me and others. I think I did well, so 
now I will leave, with only good memories of 
my ND adventure. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• TODAY'S STAFF  
News Brad Prendergast Deborah Schultz Sports Tim Sherman Graphics Tom Roland  Viewpoint Meaghan Smith Production Michelle Marcotte Tara Grieshop Lab Tech Dane Kramer  

Tltt Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday <hrough Friday oxcept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

• WORlD AT A GLANCE 
Clinton allows Cubans held at Guantanamo to enter U.S. 
WASHINGTON 

In a sudden reversal. President ... The number of refugees rescued at sea Clinton agreed Tuesday to allow some spiked upward in 1994 when President 20,000 Cubans into the United States Clinton allowed in the elderly, chronically ill, after months of detention at unaccompanied minors and some families. Guantanamo Bay. But he said any more Cubans who flee their country will be forcibly returned home. Atlantic Ocean · 
Cuban-American leaders expressed 
200miles

delight that people detained at the U.S. 
~ 

naval base in Cuba would be permitted 200km to migrate, but they complained bitter-Gulfof ly that future refugees would be Mexico Miami 
turned away. KeyWest . rf\0#' Guantanamo 
~·

Some Republicans accused Clinton of H StraitS 0 .J . . . . N.. Nval Base
shutting the doors on a safe haven that avan · · for 35 years has beckoned Cubans . · · 0 ·· fleeing Fidel Castro's communist state. 
"It's a very lamentable decision," Caribbean Sea said Republican Rep. Ileana Ros-. . Leht·nen who represents the Miami Source. u.s. Coast Guard,
I • State Department 
area. 
"How sad it is that the United States is now viewed as an accomplice in Castro's repression of the Cuban people," said Sen. Jesse Helms, R-NC., the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. 
Answering Helms' charges on the Senate floor, Sen. 
• INDIANA WEATHER 

Wednesday, May 3 Accu-Weather e forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
• NATIONAl WEATHER 


The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, May 3. 
Unes separate high temperature zones for the day. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1995 Accu-Weather, Inc. Prsssure ~ ~ ,-/\
H L B GSI [[!) 0 ~ § "M" L-! c....._!. 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY VIB Associated PfBSS 
Atlanta  76  54  Dallas  76  57  New Orleans 83  62  
Baltimore  72  47  Denver  58  34  New York  71  49  
Boston  66  44  Los Angeles 70  58  Philadelphia 73  48  
Chicago  57  42  Miami  85  74  Phoenix  93  66  
Columbus 68  44  Minneapolis 59  44  St. Louis  59  48  

· · 
CU · 
· 

AP have close ties to conservative Cuban­
American lawmakers. 

Secretary of State Warren Christopher called Hays and expressed regret about his decision and said he understood his reasons. Christopher also said he would recommend that Hays be reassigned expeditiously to another post in the Latin America bureau. 
Bob Graham, D-Fla., said Clinton's deci­sion "was a difficult one." While endorsing Clinton's policy, Graham said the return of future refugees to Cuba "causes great concern to many people, including myself." 
There were indications of a serious 
rift in the administration over the new policy. Dennis Hays, the State De­partment's coordinator for Cuban affairs, and his deputy, Nancy Mason, asked to be reassigned in protest of the decision to repatriate fleeing Cubans, officials said. 
Hays headed the U.S. delegation to three rounds of talks with Cuban offi­cials on migration issues, most recently two weeks ago in New York. He is known as a strong supporter of the U.S. trade embargo against Cuba and to 
Prince Charles marks war's end 
HAMBURG, Germany 

To remember the dead and recon­cile the living, Prince Charles and Winston Churchill's grandson came Tuesday to Hamburg, one of the cities most ravaged by British bombers dur­ing World War II. Leveled by hun­dreds of British bomber raids, Hamburg surrendered on May 3, ~ · 1945, rather than face more. It was a the largest German city to end its war without a fight. "Hamburg was very much in the front line of the bomb­ing. Then we occupied it and governed it," said British Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd. "The theme today is very much commemoration and reconciliation." Hurd accompanied Charles and Britain's minister for armed forces, Nicholas Soames, the grandson of Britain's wartime prime minister. at a memorial service in St. Michael's Lutheran Church. Charles returned the waves of 50 people outside the church. Reflecting trade and cultural ties that go back to the Middle Ages, there is a saying that Hamburgers are simply Londoners who speak German. 
Circulation declines for newspapers 
NEW YORK 

The circulation of most of the largest metropolitan newspapers declined in the latest six-month period, new figures show. The declines contained in data released by the Audit Bureau of Circulations extended a trend of de­clining circulation at big metropolitan newspapers. In­dustry experts attribute the erosion to increases in news­paper prices, as well as the baseball strike and hockey lockout that reduced sports coverage, a major area of in­terest for many newspaper readers. In addition, calcu­lated moves by some publishers to cut costly distribution to distant locales has played a role in reducing circula­tion. Newspaper publishers have been raising prices because of the rapidly escalating price of newsprint and competitive pressures to curb rises in advertising rates. Cathleen Black, president and chief executive of the Newspaper Association of America, said Tuesday that newspapers are concentrating on building longer term subscribers and relying less on discounting and incen­tives. 
Orange County makes deal 

SANTA ANA, Calif. 
Schools, cities and agencies caught in Orange County's bankruptcy quagmire will receive 77 cents on the dollar in cash and the rest in IOUs under a repayment plan ap­proved Tuesday by a judge. Orange County bankruptcy attorney Bruce Bennett said it would be possible for the county to begin issuing checks within a few weeks. "It's good to get this behind us. It's been a long, hard climb to get here," Bennett said. Orange County filed for bank­ruptcy last Dec. 6, becoming the biggest U.S. public body ever to seek protection from creditors. It and 200 other government entities had poured $7.6 billion into county investment pools. Of that, $1.7 billion was lost to former Treasurer Robert Citron's bets on stable or lower interest rates, using strategies that included heavy borrowing to buy complex securities known as derivatives. Under the plan approved by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge John E. Ryan, the county will issue $240 million in "super-priority" recovery notes to be repaid before other debts. Orange County has promised the notes will be convertible into cash in June. Counting the notes, schools will recover 90 cents on the dollar and cities and agencies 80 cents. 
Math-science education promoted 

WASHINGTON 
Two federal agencies are joining forces to encourage students to choose careers in math, science and technol­ogy. Education Secretary Richard Riley and Energy Sec­retary Hazel O'Leary signed an agreement Monday pledging use of their research facilities in meeting an ob­jective of the Goals 2000 education reform program. Both Cabinet members said they want to help the United States achieve the goal of being first in the world in math and science education, one of the goals of the education reform program enacted last year. "If we want this country to remain a world leader, we have to make sure the next generation is ready to address the technological challenges that will be confronting all of us," Riley said. O'Leary held a new light bulb, one that is made with sul­fur particles, above her head as she walked among the crowd of students to tell them about the rewards of sci­ence education. She said the bulb, which remains under development, will be cheaper and more energy efficient than conventional light bulbs. 


Wednes~y. May 3', 1995 

page 3. 



Play to aid research group Gurule: Racism eclipses 
'By EDWARD IMBUS play just touches football, The proceeds from the play 
severity of Simpson tri<rl 
Associate News Editor instead choosing to examine will benefit the Ara Parseghian 
Prepare for next year to start off with a bang. 
The Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley will be spon­soring the comedy play "Coaches" next fall for stu­dents. 
"Coaches" is a two-act play about the famous Knute Rockne, Vince Lombardi, and Bear Bryant. Focusing on these personalities "up close," the their various characters as de­picted in the locker room. 
The characters all meet in act II as they encounter the Almighty in a humorous, uplift­ing ending that makes people "feel better about themselves," according to the directors. 
Twenty-five extras will be needed for the play, according to Club representative and alumna Jennifer Lang '94, and will be chosen next semester. 
Medical Research Foundation, which sponsors research into Niemann-pick's disease. A fatal, degenerative genetic dis­order, Niemann-pick's usually attacks children by interfering with metabolizing cholesterol. 
The play will be shown at Washington Hall on Thursday, Sept. 7. Tickets will cost $10 and be sold only to the students of Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, and Holy Cross. 


Seniors win Fulbright scholarships 
Special to The Observer 
Four Notre Dame seniors have been awarded Fulbright grants for 1995-96. 
•Jeanne 
Curran, an eco­nomics major from Omaha, Neb., has been awarded a grant to Canada. 

•Ericka 
Beckman, an English 


and Spanish major from Brookfield. Wis., earned a grant to Chile. 
•Bradford 
Hunter, a govern­ment and German major from Fort Lauderdale, Fla., has ac­cepted a Fulbright teaching as­sistantship to Austria. 

•Tanja 
Sherden, an engineer­ing and environmental science 


major, earned a Bavarian state government grant to Germany through the Fulbright program. 
Curran, Beckman, Hunter and Sherden join four previ­ously announced Notre Dame recipients of the prestigious Fulbright grants -Elissa Bell, Helen Dieteman, Christopher Fischer and Christopher Vicari. 
By BRIAN MOLINARO 
News Writer 
The latest hot topic in the O.J. Simpson murder trial is the talk of racist acts surrounding the investigation, trial and jury, according to Jimmy Gurule, who spoke last night at the St. Edward's Forum. 
Gurule, a law school profes­sor and former assistant U.S. attorney, spoke about the excessive presence of racism radiating throughout the trial. 
According to Gurule, it seems that almost every person involved in the trial has had some racist act performed either by them or against them: white jurors receiving better treatment than black jurors, racial comments made toward witness Dennis Fung after the defense supposedly had a "Fung day" with him, and the entire defense's theory that the 
L.A. police department framed 
O.J. by sprinkling a sample of his blood at the crime scene. 
Not only does the racism sur­rounding the case seem to exist inside the courtroom, but it 

Good Luck on Finals. 


seems to be present in the pub­lic as well. "Over 70% of blacks in the U.S. subscribe to the defense's theory that O.J. was framed by white police officers who were jealous of his fame and resented the fact that 
O.J. had a white wife," said Gurule. 
The O.J. Simpson trial is not the only racially related trial in 
L.A. in the past few years. Ri­ots broke out all over L.A. a few years ago, after the acquittal of police officers who were charged with excessive force. The officers were charged after being caught on video tape beating a drug suspect, Rodney King. 
Due to the numerous amount of cases such as the O.J. trial and the Rodney King trial, "America's ethnic minorities seem to be losing faith in the fact that the U.S. judicial sys­tem is colorblind," Gurule said. 
• CORRECTION 
Tuesday's article on An­Tosta.l, contained a number of inaccuracies. 
Gayle Spencer is the Assis­tant Director of Student Activi­ties ·not the Director of Student Activities. 
AnTostal is sponsored by the Student Union Board (SUB) rather than Student Activities, 
Student Activities discontin­ued contract negotiations with Digable Planets' management • Negotiations were discontinued because of security concerns. 
The Observer regrets the er­rors. 

9 Month Leases for nts  
3 Month Summer Leases  
LOCATED IN THE HEART  c::  
OF EVERYTHING! Mai11 St. between Ediso11 & McKi11le!l  ·=·=-+-...............~........=-~~1REMINGTON COU  
• Pool & Jacuzzi •Club House  McKinley Jefferson Blvd.  
•Washer/Dryer  0 0 ~  
•Microwaves  c:: e Lincoln Wa East  




s-i;:re-:ss :re-:1ie-:-v-e-::r 
Sunday, May 7 
9 pm-12 am 

LaFortune Ballroom 

before  after  
~  :r~~1  m~ss~-..:..se-:!!!  
~,  ...~~~~ .....  

-9'-'" b-.:1.1e»C»:Kll. ~~'C"~ 
~~ s'i;e»lm1pi:111g! ~~ ~ .,~ :£i:111g;e::r pa..ill1't;ill1g; ~~ 
brought to you by SUB and the Huddle 
-~ 
page4 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, May 3, 1995 
• ACLosER LooK Ar •••NoTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY's Fooo SERVICES 
' 



Taming the hungry beast 
A complicated, high-tech process brings meals from Food Services to your mouth 
By LIZ FORAN 
Associate News Editor 
Food. You want it? They got it. But did you ever wonder how they get it? 
Food preparation is, of course, the most essential func­tion of the Notre Dame Dining Halls. But this seemingly simple task is in ·reality an involved process requiring a lot of plan­ning and looking toward the future. 
Just getting food to campus can be a huge chore, as de­scribed by North Dining Hall Manager Jill Riggs. Orders must be placed in bulk, and supplies come from several dif­ferent companies in South Bend and the surrounding area. 
"The budget is set," she said. "We submit to the a budget to the University for approval, and all purchases are based on that budget." 
Riggs said that Food Services buys large volume items, which are food items produced in great quantities at a time, in bulk. They try to buy name brand products whenever pos­sible. Certain food items, such as milk and bagels, are pur­chased differently. 

Milk is bid on by a number of different companies in the beginning of each year, and the contract remains with the one company for the entire year. 
Bagel lovers may have no­ticed a difference in their food of choice this year, as bagels are now delivered fresh every morning as opposed to last year's frozen variety. 
Despite the number choices among distributors, the amount of food that needs to be ordered is determined by a less compli­cated process. 
"Everything is computerized," Riggs said of menu planning and food production. "We fore­cast (the popularity) of every item on the menu." 
Riggs described how food items can be programmed into a computer, which will predict how many serving of an item· should be prepared according to the food's past performance as a mealtime hit. After every meal, computer print outs show how much of each item was prepared and how much was actually eaten. 
Another key in perfecting food options is detailed plan­ning of menus. According to Jim Yarbrough, manager of South Dining Hall, menus are planned on a yearly basis, with minor revisions when needed or requested. 
"There are eight different 
menus t carry over m year to year," he said. "We look at the performance of an item, whether or not it is popular. If an item does well, we leave it on, if not then we replace it with something we think the students will like better." 
And students are not shy in expressing their opinions about changes they would like to see. Both Yarbrough and Riggs say they receive many of the blue suggestion cards every week. 
Dining Hall employees must be skilled with all kinds of recipes. Daily menus can be quite 
diverse, from clam chowder (top) to tradi­tional pizza. Computers now help the Dining Halls predict food amounts. 
The Observer/ Mike Ruma 
"Most of the suggestions are for adding new things," Riggs said. "We try to accommodate as many as we can, but everyone has different tastes." 
Yarbrough makes it a point to check the suggestion box every morning as soon as he comes in. "Students comments lead us in the right direction," he said. "They give us a little insight into what our customers really want." 


Dining Hall checkers part of a "system that works" 
ByDEBORAHSCHULTZ 
News Writer 
We all know the routine. We had them our ID card and wait while they punch it in, or we perform the duty ourselves while they watch to make sure we don't do anything wrong. 
To us, it becomes so much of a habit that we move through these motions without even thinking about them. But for the checkers at North and South Dining Halls, these activi­ties are jobs they look forward to daily. 
The majority of the checkers employed at the dining halls are senior citizens, which man­agement feels benefits the stu­dendi. 
"This iob is I!P.arP.d toward 
think the students can relate better to senior citizens than to their peers," said Head Checker of South Dining Hall, Marianne Sobieralski. 
This idea seems to be work­ing, for the checkers truly care about the students and try to make things as easy as possible for them. 

"Working with the kids is so much fun, we have a good time with them. I've never had a truly bad experience with a stu­dent. 
Sometimes they are angry, but I understand because if my card didn't work every time, I would be mad too," said Sobieralski. 
"My checkers relate really well to the students too. and with them. 
Everyone here is willing to help, and I am really proud of them. Anne (one of the check­ers) and I are professional wor­riers. 
Whenever a student tells us they have a test or something important coming up, we worry for them," said Sobieralski. 
The main difference between checkers at North and South is that the students punch in their ID themselves at North, while the checkers perform the ac­tivity at South. 
The checkers of both dining halls also make sure everything is running smoothly. 
This system works well at North and will stay that way, according to Head Checker Melanie Wise. 
cards in works because it goes faster. They don't have to hand their ID to another person, and they can therefore get in and out faster," said Wise. "We might spread the checkers out, so students can get through even easier. but we don't plan to change the system," said Wise. 
However. this system will most likely not be incorporated into South. "Students will never put their cards in themselves here. It is too easy that way for people to slip through," said Sobieralski. 
A common emotion among the checkers, regardless of which dining hall they work at. is a love of working and inter­actin!! with the students. 
look forward to it. The only time it is boring is when we aren't busy -I like it when it is hectic. 
The students do not cause any problems at all. In grab-n­go they always pick up extra items, but we don't say any­thing because food is good for them," said Katie Blasco, checker at SOH. 
According to Julie Hable, a checker at NOH, she would rather be able to punch in stu­dents' cards because it would allow for more communication between checkers and students. 
"I really feel food services bends over backwards to do what is best for the students, and I'm just glad we can help bv doin!! as much as we can." 

Wednesday, May 3, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
• A CLOSER LOOK AT•••NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S fOOD SERVICES 

Changes planned for SDH 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST dock in the rear will also have court system. Associate News Editor to be relocated, Athey said. "If the University builds a Athey said discussions are third and fourth dorm, the odds 
While plans are still sketchy, also underway regarding how to are good that we would utilize South Dining Hall will "definite­improve the Grab-and-Go sys­the Oak Room or move the Oak ly" undergo reorganization tem, though no headway has Room to another part of South within the next three to four been made thus far. Dining Hall," Athey said. years, said Ronald Athey, assis­"We don't really know where However, both Athey and tant director of food services. to put it," Athey said. "The David Prentkowski, director of 
Athey and other members of Knights of Columbus building food services, stressed that an exploratory committee are was talked about, but it wasn't nothing has been decided. examining several options as a viable option." Presently, Athey, Prentkowski the dining hall prepares for the The two new dorms are ex­and members of the University influx of students who will live pected to add a total of 500 stu­facilities and maintenance oper­in Keough and O'Neill Halls, dents to the population of the ations are meeting with archi­scheduled to open August 1996. south side of campus, which tects from the firm of Ellerbe, 
Among the options are mov­Athey said the dining hall could Beckett. The architects have ing the Oak Hoom to another handle with little reorganiza­done a facility audit of the part of the dining hall building, tion, but if two more dorms are building to make sure it is up to installing a food court system added as expected to what will current building codes. similar to that used in North be the West Quad, then the din­In order to meet building Dining Hall, and making the ing hall would have to adjust. codes, the accessibility of the building more accessible to the "We would have to increase building for the handicapped handicapped. our serving area to the stu­must be improved, Prentkowski 
"Something is definitely going dents" if the two additional said. That includes installing to be added to the back of the dorms were built, Athey said. elevators and designing coun­building," he said. "We want to One way to do that would be ters to the appropriate height. make the back cosmetically to take the beverage islands out Athey said he expects a deci­beautiful for the students who of the seating areas or to incor­sion to be made within a year to will live behind it. The loading porate the Oak Room into a food two years. 

Student managers, dirty job 
By ETHAN HAYWARD Valentine's Day fire which sympathize their complaints. Assistant News Editor started when a fuel can was "It's not your home cooking," knocked over and a tablecloth says Sophomore Pat Abell. 
Hunning a dining hall can be caught fire. The fire spread to With regards to the crowd a dirty job. Just ask the student three other tables before it was problems at North Dining Hall, dining hall managers. finally extinguished. managers claim that they're 
Student managers are put in Sophomore Shannon working on curbing the line charge of student workers, Mazzapica looks disdainfully on lengths. making sure the shifts run the few food fights she has wit­Sophomore manager Pete smoothly and often filling in on nessed. She finds it unfair when Rufa says that the hall can not shifts that are understaffed. student workers have to stay process people quickly enough Some end up working the dish late and clean up the carnage. at the main meal times, specifi­line, while most patrol the din­Most managers don't take it cally at noon and between 5:30 ing area, keeping it safe and to heart when diners complain and 6 p.m. clean. about food quality. As Being a student manager 
Some of the more experi­Mazzapica says, "I don't make means more than wearing a enced managers recall a few it." name tag. It means responsibil­unusual incidents on that took Nearly all managers maintain ity for clean dishes, clean floors place during their shifts. Junior that it is better than the food and tables, getting food served, Kelly Cox remembers a served at most schools, but can and even lire control. 


A look at lunch . .. 
a typical lunch at North Dining Hall in terms of portions prepared and eaten 


Food Item #prepared #eaten 
Thin Spaghetti 197 194 Lasagna 72 64 Cheese Pizza 96 95 Total Pizzaria 264 252 Turkey w/ Gravy 640 560 Broccoli Cuts 160 130 Tomato Soup 306 300 Meatball Grinder 240 237 Hamburger 248 243 Bacon Burger 3 3 Hot Dog 65 62 Cheese Sauce 160 152 French Fries 287 275 Beef Tamale 20 18 Total Cookie Jar 545 516 Total Fruit 1008 1008 Yo Cream 200 200 Grab 'n Go 875 744 Beverages 2876 2875 Total Lunch 19279 18997 
The Observer/Tom Roland 




Special faces behind scenes 
the success of these employees. was almost as if he was always 
He aids in their training as well on the verge of tears. Now, he as in the development of their is the life of the party," Kirwan working habits. said. 
Marriott, SMC 
provide jobs to 
"Brown students come to the J .J. explained some of his Dining Hall with little to no responsibilities, saying, "TheBrown students experience. We help them out. last time we had extra people I They really learn a great deal swept, cleaned walls, and emp­more than just job skills," tied trash." Although these Kirwan said. duties differ from his daily rou­
By LESLIE FIELD Their constant learning and tine, he is happy to fill in wher­News Writer growing can be attributed to ever needed. their desire to work and con­For example, Kirwan saw We go there every day, wait-tribute to society, which is that J . .J. really wanted a chance 
ing in long lines for the meal we strongly encouraged both by to cook. He was working so have been dreaming about The Brown School and by the diligently at everything, that since Stats. As we make our Saint Mary's Dining Hall man­Kirwan gave him the opportuni­way into this dining Mecca, we agement. ty to flip burgers one day. J .J. peruse the potato bar, check According to Kirwan, there claims that. "The food's better 
out the wings 'n things and are many success stories. Take than my mom's cooking."make our way over to the ever Sheryl Forman, for example. Sheryl agreed. popular yo-cream machine, After five years of service, last Allowing the workers to try
hoping to see a sign above it year she was made a full time new things and encouragereading "cappuccino." employee with a salary and growth is the key to the success But we rarely think about benefits. of both the Saint Mary's Dining 
how that food get to us at the She received this promotion Hall and its employees. dining hall. because Kirwan felt that she James Gray, a 20 year old Some of the people who help was what the dining hall need­Brown School student, has 
the Saint Mary's dining hall to ed. According to Kirwan, "She recently moved into his own run smoothly every day are could fit into the time frame we apartment. lie is now able to from The Brown School. needed and is not afraid to take public transportation,This is a school located in speak up in meetings. She along with other employees
South Bend that educates young always gives her perceptions who, like James, now do this, adults who are mentally chal-and ideas." too. lenged in some way. When Forman was asked Due to James' physical and 
Through the partnership of what her favorite part of work­mental challenges, he was not the Brown School and the ing in the dining hall is, she always able to achieve this level Marriott Corporation, many of responded with a glowing, "I of independence. But, accord­The Brown Schools' students love everything!" ing to Kirwan, learning to read have the opportunity to learn J.J, 21, has been working at a work schedule every day and about the working world while the dining hall for 18 months. having to follow a fairly strict 
contributing to the success of Since then, he has completely time schedule, have made Saint Mary's food service pro-changed his personality and The Brown School students grams. outlook on life. "When J.J. first better able to do comparableKAvin Kirwan. Food SArvir.A t'"!.lrn~ ha. U.TJl~ lTAr\1 thinm:: nntdriP fhP rlininn h., 11
hArA c;;:h11 


------~ --~-~ 
page6 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, May 3, 1995 



Senate 
continued from page 1 
professor of English, in years past, the Faculty Senate was seen as "a harmless, weak, debating society that is never part of the action." 
Stating his support of the pro­posal, Rathburn said, "This proposal suggests that we get in the game -that the Senate join the big leagues." 
There was also a discussion of the Faculty Senate Self-Study that was submitted at last mon­th's meeting. 

Do01e 
continued from page 1 
design or appearance of the building," said Brown. "It also must bring the building closer to its original state, not add to it." 
The renovation is part of a master plan that includes many different projects. An interior renovation is planned as a sep­arate project after the exterior is completed. 
The switch of administration offices to Grace Hall and the 
12:30,2:45, 5:00, 7:15, 9:30 
Jefferson in Paris 
[PG13] 

1 :00, 4:00, 7:00, 10:00 
Jury Duty 
[PG13] 
12:45, 3:15, 5:15, 7:30, 9:45 

The Program of Liberal Studies 



proudly salutes PLS majors who have won national fellowships Fulbright Teaching Fellowships Elissa Bell 
(France) 


Helen Dieteman 
(France) 


Mellon Graduate Fellowships Emily Lehrman 
(Russian, Ya1e) 


Amy Siddons 
(English, Virginia) 
A resolution submitted by As­sociate Professor of Mathemat­ics Mario Borelli concerning a statement on intercollegiate athletics was also passed. 
The resolution mentioned the first sentence of section two of "Student Ufe" of the Statement, which reads, "The student ath­lete is first of all a student. Each one is held to the same general standard of conduct as any other student." 
The document resolved that the Senate go on record "strongly deploring the latest action of the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics" for its "vio­lation" of certain regulations concerning the Board's 
construction of the new dorms must be completed before the interior renovation occurs. The interior renovation is supposed to be finished by 1999. 
Interior renovation will con­sist of a complete rehabilitation of the fifth floor. This floor is currently unused and closed to the public because of serious structural damage. 
"If everything stays according to schedule," said Brown, "the exterior renovation should be finished in a year to 16 months, and the interior renovation ought to start in the summer of 1997." 

approval of participation by the women's softball team in a tournament during the week of final examinations. 
At the start of the meeting, McBrien's first ord-er of busi­ness included the announce­ment of the retirement of Sen­ate Secretary Harriet Flowers after "twenty-three years of faithful and dedicated service." 
"She's the one who kept ev­erything straight," said Shee­han, a former Senate chair. Another former chair of the Senate, Paul Conway, described Flowers as "cooperative, loyal, and dedicated." 
"She cares about the Senate," Conway said. 

GLND/SMC 
continued from page 1 

formal, and will not attempt to settle the questions raised by the Saint Mary's community. We just want to know what stu­dents think." Westler said. "Talking about the issue is healthy." 
The meeting will be held in Stapleton Lounge at Saint Mary's College on Friday at 
3:30 p.m. Students, faculty and administration are encouraged to attend. 
The Obseover/Shelley Sullivan 
Cleanina house! Students tnrow away everything from couches to chairs to lofts behind Flanner. 
PUT YouR SuMMER To WoRK AT 
LOYOLA UNIVERSITY CHICAGO 
Early Session Six weeks beginning May 19 [6 pm] 
Middle Session Six weeks beginning June 7 
Late Session Six weeks beginning July 5 
Double (Extended) Session Beginning May 19 [6 pm] 
>-Day, evening or weekend classes. >-Courses in business, arts and sciences, education, nursing. >-All courses applicable to Loyola University Chicago degrees. >-Classes held atLoyola's LakeShore (Chicago), Water Tower 
(Chicago), Medical Center (Maywood), and Mallinckrodt (Wilmette) campuses. >-Convenient touch-tone registration (ITR) system. 
r-------------------------------------------~ 
1 THE SUMMER SESSIONS To receive your free copy : Loyola University Chicago of the 1995 The Summer Sessions : 820 N. Michigan Avenue bulletin, return coupon or call Chicago, IL 60611-2196 (312)915-6501. 
Name 
Address 
I~ ~k ~ 
I CN 
L-------------------------------------------~ 

Wednesday, May 3, 1995 The Observer • WASHINGTON NEWS page 7 


Navy inspector says ships won't be built 
Senate hears nominee bid 
By JOHN DIAMOND Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The Navy knew as early as 1986 that a Pennsylvania ship­builder couldn't adequately complete two refueling ships but "went ahead and threw more money at it," a top Pen­tagon ollicial said Tuesday. 
In a tale of government mis­management. Pnntagon Dnputy lnspnctor General Derek Van­der Schaaf told a Senate panel of the ehain of events that led the Navy to spend more than $400 million on two ships that were never delivered. 
It began at the height of the H!Jagan administration defense buildup, Vander Schaaf told the Senate Governmental Affairs investigations subcommittee. Driving toward a goal of a 600­ship Navy, the Heagan Pen­tagon was plaeing shipbuilding contracts on a fast track and seeking new contractors to handle the increasing volume of work. 
In 1985, the Navy awarded a $400 million contraet to Penn Ship Co. of Philadelphia to build four oil -tankers designed to refuel other Navy ships at sea. Initial concerns that the com­pany was inexperienced and would be unable to deliver the ships were waved ofl". 
"This was part of the busi­ness of, 'Let's sprnad the Navy's business around, develop some politieal support for the Navy,"' Vander Sehaaf said. "You've got to understand the environ­ment of the time." 
:rhe worst fears of Navy ship­building watchdogs were soon realiznd. Progress on the ships ground to a halt by the late 1980s despite infusion of addi­tional Navy funds. 
Although Vander Schaafs in­vestigation found that inexperi­ence was the main problem at Penn Ship, a retired Navy offi­cer who oversaw the project raised other concerns. 
The ollicer. retired Capt. C.J. "Petn" Schrodt listed some of the bills Penn Ship submitted to the Navy for payment: charges 
~--------------~-­
"Our Lady on 
the Dome" 
As the river called "St. joseph" fiows softly towards its end 
for new furniture for a home in Texas and the costs of bulldoz­ing work done on the Texas property, $25,000 in contribu­tions to the United Way that had been deducted from employees' wages but never paid to the charity, an employ­ee's child support payments deducted from the individual's salary but never forwarded to the child. Schrodt said he later learned the employee was jailed for nonpayment of child support. 
The Navy refused to pay these and other bills and in 1989 or­dered work stopped on the pro­ject and sought to transfer the two unfinished hulls to Tampa Shipyards in Florida, owned by George Steinbrenner, the New York Yankees owner. 
Another, more experienced shipyard completed the other two tankers originally awarded to Penn Ship. 
Retired Navy Capt. Karl Klein, who supervised the Tampa end of the project, said that by the fall of 1990 it was obvious to him that the shipyard could not complete the job on time. 
Three years later he conclud­ed that "failure was inevitable." 
Sen. William Roth, R-Del., chairman of the subcommittee, said those responsible for the fiasco must be held account­able. 
But Vander Schaaf said assigning blame would be diffi­cult since so many factors con­tributed to the botched ship contract. 
Among the problems encoun­tered by Pentagon investigators was missing documents in Navy Iiles. 
And Sen. Sam Nunn, D-Ga., ranking Democrat on the sub­committee and on the Senate Armed Services Committee, said Congress may be partly to blame for placing pressure on the Navy to find multiple sources for ship contracts. 
In 1992, against Navy recommendations, Congress approved a bailout of several shipyards, including Tampa, in the fiscal 1993 defense appro­priations bill. 
ATLANTA 

it turns eastward at a city aptly named "South Bend" 
'Twas here Fr. Sarin founded a 
university 
or the glory of God's reign lie named it for "Our Mother" Notre Dame-Notre Dame 
...So begins a beautiful eight stanza poem that belongs in every fan's home ami office. Suitable for framing, the tribute is bordered in blue and gold. 
The spirit of the University sin­cerely expressed-makes a cher­ished gift. 
Send personal check or money order to: 
Pat O'Block, P.O. Box 306, LaGrange, IL 60525 Allow I 0 days 1o 2 weeks for delivery.
r.----------------------,
1Namc 1 
I -----------------. 1Address •
I ----------------1
•c s z· •
: 1ty -------tate __ 1p ---: :Number of poems@ 12.95* each __ J 
1 I Total 1 I 
I -----1 
: $2.50 Total S&H _____: 
I I 
: Grand Total ___ --: :.*$1.00 from each sale will be donated w: 
1 
1 L 
the Notre Dame Scholarship Fund : 
----------------------~ 
Christopher f. Linkimer Howard H. Kang
Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P. Brendan C. Rowe
BOSTON John F. Manning Congratulates MINNEAPOLIS Kathleen R. McCarthy Christopher f. Kocourek 
CHICAGO NEWPORT BEACH 
Kevin R. Carroll K. Matthew Strottman


NOTRE DAME'S 
Troy A. Cusey John M. Vandeman' Mary R. McNutt 
Class of 1995 
NEW YORK
Timothy A. Oates 
Brian P. Koluch
Jutta (Judy) W. Reinhardt 

And is proud to welcome
Sean M. Smith PARSIPPANY Micnael W. Van Der Ven Kevin B. Manning
the following graduates who 
DENVER PITTSBURGH
will be joining our Firm.
Edward M. Dunigan Amy E. Visnosky 
HONOLULU ST. LOUIS 
Robert K. Nobriga Amy C. Connolly 
HOUSTON SAN FRANCISCO 
Karen M. Baimbridge Joel E. Brandenburg Renee M. Wynn 
SOUTH BEND

Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P. 
Coopers

INDIANAPOLIS Mark A. Andrzejewski
I&Lybrand Ia professional services firm
Christopher C. Werling 
SYRACUSE 

NOT JUST KNOWLEDGE. KNOW HOW.5M 
LAS VEGAS Michael D. Robson Brian D. Archer 
Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer 
By DAVID ESPO Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Blending poignant details of a life in medicine with a firm defense of his Integrity, Henry Foster battled Tuesday to sal­vage his nomination as surgeon generaL "I am a doctor who delivers babies," he told law­makers probing his views on abortion. 
At a day-long Senate hearing, Foster pledged to lead a na· tional campaign against teen pregnancies if confirmed. "Abstinence is good for young people," he said. "It prevents AIDS, it prevents sexually transmitted disease, it prevents pregnancy." 
After three months of contro­versy, Foster slid into the wit· ness chair with a pledge to "set the record straight." 
He conceded earlier under· stating the number of abortions he performed in four decades as an obstetrician, but said it was an "honest mistake" made without a complete review of the records. 
"There was never any intent to deceive,'' he said. "I had no reason to do so." 
The 61-year-old former med­ical school dean strode into the committee room accompanied by his wife, St. Clair. and flanked by White House aides steering him through his stormy confirmation process. 
The audience included sev­eral members of the "I Have a Future" program he founded in Nashville, Tenn., to reduce teen pregnancy. 
Outside in the rain, about a dozen anti-abortion demonstra­tors carried signs objecting to the nomination. 
With aU seven Democrats on the Labor and Human Re­sources Committee expected to support the nomination, Clinton administration officials pinned their hope for approval on three uncommitted Republi­cans, including the chair· woman, Sen. Nancy Kassebaum of Kansas. 
At day's end, all three said they remained uncommitted. with Kassebaum and Sen. James Jeffords, R·VI', pressing for information on the effec­tiveness of the anti-teen preg­nancy program Foster devel­oped in Nashville. Also un­committed was Sen. Bill Frist, like Foster a physician and Tennessean, who told re· porters, "So far, I'm entirely satisfied with his answers." 
Committee approval would merely lift Foster over one hur­dle. 
In a nomination caught up in presidential polltics, Sen. Phil Gramm has threatened a fili­buster. And Majority Leader Bob Dole -a rival for the GOP nomination for the White House -has said he might keep the nomination off the floor alto­gether, citing questions about Foster's credibility rather than abortion. 
Win or lose, some Democratc; believe they will benefit politi­cally if the Republican'-con­tr()Jled Senate can be depicted as rejecting a nominee for per­forming abortions only spar­ingly, and always legally. 
Replying to several of the controversies that have dogged his nomination, Foster: 
•Denied knowing about a pro­gram in Tuskegee, Ala., that left men untreated for syphilis until it became public knowl­edge in 1972. "I was outraged frankly," he said. "It was aw­ful." 
•Said 
an earlier comment that "white" right-wing ex­tremists opposed his nomina­tion was a "slip of the tongue" insofar as it referred to race. By extremists, he said he meant abortion foes who break the law to prevent a woman from exercising her constitutional right to an abortion. 

•Under 
questioning from Sen. Dan Coats, R-Ind., Foster said, "We did not provide abortion services'' or referrals in the time he practiced medicine in Tuskegee. Asked whether he had ever performed an abor­tion before 1973, he recalled one case in which he performed surgery on a woman with a complicated medical condition, including an ovarian tumor. The pathology report came back reporting the presence of a small fetus in the tissue removed, he said. 

•Defended 
performing steril­ization operations on four re­tarded young women in the 1970s. 


Kassebaum and Sen. Edward Kennedy, the committee's se­nior Democrat, stepped ofT the dais to greet the former medi­cal school dean as he arrived in a packed <:ommltteH hearing at the beginning of the day. 
Foster, Kassebaum said after gaveling the hearing to order, "bas been made a pawn in our abortion debates. I believe he deserves to be judged on his whole record, his life experi­ence and his current views." 
For his part, Kennedy, D­Mass., later held up a framed copy of a letter President Bush had sent Foster bestowing a "Point of Light" citation on the Nashville anti-pregnancy pro­gram. 
Under prodding from Kennedy, he recalled conditions in the Tuskegee, Ala., area where he practiced as a young obstetrician. "I have worked 40 hours straight and got not one wink of sleep," he said. 
Records were a problem, so he began using carbon paper, and handing the patient a copy to give to the hospital when she arrived. Transportation was a problem, as well -until he persuaded the local funeral homes to lend their hearses to women needing rides to the hospital. "Their patients could wait," he said to laughter. 
As surgeon general, he said. "I will focus on the full range of health challenges fadng this nation," including AIDS, heart disease. mental health, aging and other concerns. 
First, though, he sought to resolve the controversy over abortion and the conflicting an­swers he provided at the time of his nomination. 
"ln 22 years at Mehnrry Medical College I am listed as the physician of record on 39 abortion cases," said Foster. who last winter had said he had performed only one such op· eration, then less than a dozen. "I do regret the initial confu­sion." 
As for his integrity, Foster noted that fellow physicians chose him 10 years running to serve on the ethics committee of the Nashville Academy of Medicine. "I have worked very hard to establish a record of credibility and ethical con­duct," he said. 
LOS ANGELES 


page 8 The Observer • THE OKLAHOMA CITY BOMBING Wednesday, May 3, 1995 
Bombing continues to take toll in Oklahoma 

·Atta
=·==~~;:x··= ........... . 


H!t~.t~e~k 
May 7-11, 1995 7:00 pm -2:00am
flff FRfl
Coffee Popcorn 
tOUILI .
Nightly Spec1als 
By TED ANTHONY 
Associated Press 

OKLAHOMA CITY 
Trucks and cranes carted de­bris from towering piles outside the federal building Tuesday, clearing a path for machinery that will lift rubble from an area where many bodies are believed to be. 
Authorities did not say exact­ly when they plan to abandon hand searches in the area known as "the pit." They said more debris must be removed from the surrounding area be­fore a rubble-extraction vehicle known as a trackhoe can be brought in. 
"Nobody wants to give up hope of finding somebody in there," said Jeff Bekeris, a res­cue worker from Orange County, Calif. But "using the machinery can speed things up." 
Bekeris said rescuers are "being very gentle and careful to look for any void spaces" as they clear piles containing file cabinets, office equipment and paper. 
Engineers with laser scopes are poised to sound warning horns if debris removal causes the building to shift, Bekeris said. 
And elevators on the build­ing's west side are working, allowing access to the roof. 
Beyond the piles, in the "pit" area, authorities believe, are the bodies of dozens still miss­ing. 



Unfortunately, our competitor is struggling with this simple test: 
C) True 
0 False 

Now we're not saying anyone's lying, you understand. 
It's just The Princeton Review can't seem to figure out exactly what's true. Their advertised average LSAT score improvement dropped from "10+ points" in 1993 to 7.5 last year. Now an arbitration panel has ruled that their "study" really only supported an average improvement of 6.9 points. That same arbitration panel ruled similarly for their MCAT, GRE and GMAT studies. 
In fact, Princeton Review has been forced to abandon or lower every score claim that has ever been legally challenged and resolved. 
It's no wonder more than twice as many students take Kaplan, the acknowledged leader in LSAT, MCAT, GMAT and GRE preparation. Our expert instructors know the tests inside out, so they can help you get your highest possible score. And our score improvements are backed by rock-solid Price Waterhouse studies. 
Honest. 
1-800-KAP-TEST 
KAPLAN 
GG~EV 

Before you take your test, call for our free brochure The Truth About Test Preparation Companies. 
~•J•JI \".*...,f,A .... L-,.. .... l..,\!1 ,..., (~f"\'J. ··,,...,.,.., ~r "'~f ~. -"•'•ff,. 1'\rr,. t:"f(ol 1 
Wednesday, May 3, 1995 The Observer • THE OKLAHOMA CITY BOMBING 
page 9 

~!:~men ~~d~~.~~d ~~ Missouri, taken into custody 
Associated Press muscular, tattooed John Doe 2, ' existed for a super bomb that 
OKlAHOMA CITY 

FBI agents hunting the elu­
sive "John Doe 2" raided a 
Missouri motel Tuesday, 
capturing two men who trav­
eled a path of cheap motels 
from Arizona to Oklahoma that 
paralleled the movements of 
b..ombing. suspect Timothy 
McVeigh. 
Gary Alan Land and Robert Jacks -objects of an FBI all­points bulletin -were arrested at daybreak in Carthage, Mo., as material witnesses in the Ok­lahoma City bombing. 
A driver's license photo of Land, a 35-year-old drifter with a record of petty crimes, bore a passing resemblance to the heavyset, square-jawed figure in the FBI sketch of John Doe 2, wanted in the nation's worst domestic terrorist attaek. 
But the man arrested Tues­day had a mustache, a feature not pictured in the drawing. 
~~es~~~~rr~~:~;a{'o~~l ~~~~ 
not determined whether he is 
or not." 
Later in the day, a law en­
forcement source in Washing­
ton, speaking on condition of 
anonymity, said federal investi­
gators might release Land and 
Jacks because authorities were 
having trouble finding grounds 
to hold them. 
The death toll from the April 19 explosion reached 140 on Tuesday, including 15 children. About 40 people were missing. 
Investigators also pursued leads in Arizona, Oklahoma and Kansas, and a federal grand jury investigating McVeigh's case heard testimony Tuesday in Oklahoma City. 
At a federal court hearing for McVeigh's buddy, James Nichols, FBI Special Agent Randall Farmer testified that an informant heard Nichols bragging that "the technology 
o...~laho~a bombl\ng ~rr~sts 
Seve~l arrests have been made in conneCtion with the bombmg of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City. 
~ie~~ u~i~~sots 
brother James 1s taken 
~!~~~r~t~1lhi.n 
f~t~ blow up a federal build-
The conversation reported by the informant took place about six years ago, Farmer said. 
The testimony came at a hearing on a motion to dismiss charges against Nichols, who's being held in Milan, Mich. 
_He's. charged with conspiring With his brother, Terry Nichols, and McVeigh to make and del­onate bombs on his Michigan farm. 
The Nichols brothers aren't charged in the federal building bombing and McVeigh isn't charged in the Michigan case. 
Nichols was ordered held in federal custody until a prelimi­nary hearing May 12. 
Also charged in the Michigan bomb case is Nichols' brother Terry, who is being held in Wi~ chita, Kan., as a material wit­ness in the Oklahoma City case. Terry Nichols' attorney said he 
AP would appeal an order trans­ferring his client to Oklahoma 

PRE-PROFESSIONAL SOCIETY GENERAL MEETING 
•To ELECT '95 .. '96 OFFICERS• (ALL ARE WELCOME TO RUN FOR OFFICE) THURSDAY, MAY 7TH 
7:00 127 Nieuwland 
• Also: Scrubs still on sale .... $1200 
~· ' 

0d~'Q; The Senior Volunteer Send-Off 
is Sat, May 20that 10:00 p.m. for the recognition you deserve 
City to appear before a grand jury. 
McVeigh and the shadowy 
John Doe 2 are the only people 
named as suspects in the Okla­
homa City bombing. 
The FBI has described John ~oe 2 as a possible weight hfter. Land's neighbors in Mesa, Ariz., said he was often seen lifting weights outside his trailer. 
Attorney General Janet Reno would only say Land was sought because he "possessed information about the bomb­
ing." 
She said Land and Jacks were cooperating with the FBI, and she cautioned against specula­tion that Land might be John 
Doe 2. 

CAMPUS MINISTRY ••• 
•••CONSIDERATIONS 
THANKS 
The other day I was talking to a student who is finishing his freshman year at Notre Dame. It has not always been an easy year. It has been a year that has been filled with papers and exams, disappointments and accomplishments, excitement and boredom. 
He told me that he is not exactly the same person who showed up on campus in August. He does feel like he has learned and changed. 
As important as classes are, he told me that the people he has come to know in the last several months have changed him more than anything else. 
As I think back about this school year, I think about the thousands of students who have affected my life and the lives of other students by their witness. 
part of welcoming students to Notre Dame and helping them to see that Notre Dame is a place where people can and do put their faith into action. 
We are confident that with your help, the existing programs will continue to grow while we explore new opportunities for ministry. 
We are not exactly the same people who showed up here in August, whether we realize it or not. We have changed. Thank you to the many people who have been part of Campus Ministry at Notre Dame. We pray that God bless you and all that you do, whether you are just leaving for the summer or graduating (We will focus on seniors in the next issue). 
With hope, we look forward to trying to continue the mission ofJesus with you. -Fr. Bob Dowd, C.S.C. 
FOURTH SUNDAY OF EASTER 

They have tried ro put their faith into action by leading retreats, ministering with the homeless, being pare of Communities NO, planning hall and campus-wide 
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica 
liturgies, singing and serving in the Basilica, sponsoring people who are preparing for baptism and confirmation, planning and participating in the weekly Fourth 
Sat. May6 5:00p.m. Rev. Paul Doyle, C.S.C. 
Day presentations on the challenge of Christian living, serving in Christmas in April, participating in the Urban Plunge, and countless other ways. 
Sun. May7 10:00 a.m. Rev. John Lahey, C.S.C. Many people at Notre Dame have sacrificed their time and energy to minister to their fellow students and to other people, inside and outside of Notre Dame. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. Thomas Gaughan, C.S.C. 


We in Campus Ministry are privileged to be part of this. We look forward to working with students in order to find more ways of empowering people to minister to others. 
This year, we have started a program which brings gay and lesbian students together to listen to and talk about issues related to their sexuality. We want to be parr of making Notre Dame a more welcoming place for gay and lesbian students. 
Next fall,. we will begin a retreat program especially for freshman. We want to be 

~-~-------------------w------------------"""1 
'' 

page 10 The Observer • WASHINGTON NEWS Wednesday, May 3, 1995 
*50% purchase price applies to books ordered for re-use in the fall senzester. 

VANCOt.JVER hack down tronfthisdemand. a 
The Clinton administration "deal is impossible," insisted Tuesday there must be Hashimoto said,•. "The 
I'ds a breakthrough this wee}(Jo re-··· ...·. the U:~· ~~4e.,?.solve America's biggest1'trade ··· ior u;s~ offici headache with Japan. B\tt the ing on condititiJi that his name atmosphere coming into the ·· not be used, said the adni.inis· latest round of auto negotia-tration was adamantin itS view tions. has been decidedly ~hmr. •th~,tvol ·..·. . llJ,'thas 
The u.s. side,· frustratedtliat •.•m~ntS.b.ave< e part· the talks have made so little agre~ment. •. progress after nearly two years The administration, which of bargaining, has been hinting has made expanding trade one broadly that it is prep<lr~~ tQ ()f t~e hallma,r~~ Qfits f()r~tgn ron· out record-setting t:dtde polivy • .is despel'ateto Acroe.ve a sanctions against Japan ifthere su.ccessful market opening is no headway soon. agreement with Japan in autos 
The Japanese, already un· and auto parts, which last.y~ar happy because the administra-aqqpunted ~ nearl~ ~Q. per.. tion has done so little to brake cent of A.mer ·· . rec()rit; $66 tbe precipitous drop in the U.S. billion trade deficit with .{(!,pan. dollar, are complaining ofhigh-The United States wants to handed U.S. tactics. One official increase the umbf:lr ()f even compl{l,ined last we~~ that l<tPane;oe d ..rshi ·· · ,~;~.t America's ultimate econoniic carry Arne ... .. vehi . to goal was to make his country· rc;~lax Japaneseregulations gov­men slaves. erning repairs and inspections 
Japanese Transport Minister tl),llt •. ,keep out<lJ,S;•madespare Shizuka Karoei later said here.· ~~;t10fS; .and t~. ()btaip. n gretted using such "figUrative'' t1li®ents froro.Japan language but his comment re-makers· that theY wm· 
i . ase vealed the trade tensions that theit purchas~s of par~sfor exist between the world's two newvehicles. ~];~. XI largest economies. .fi:i~ the e 
Against this backdrop; nago· uto s .·.· .· .st ·. ··. n 
tiators from both countries met jewel of their'industi'iaJ might, in this Canadian Pacific city on have accused th~ .United States Tuesday for a second day of . o kingman ecLtrac:J.~.and talks in advance ofnegotiations .:r,9 g to · s~pre bY on Wednesday between u.s~ a ....··.. g tb. . . b f~llto Trade Representative Mickey ieC:Qrd lows .>against•tthe Kantor and Japanese Trade •Japanese yen. · 
" Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto. Meanwhile•. House S 
On his arrival Tu~sday,; N~Wf Cingri¢b.·~pldJ?r . Hashimoto told reporters that Clinton in a letter rel sed his country did not plan to Tuesday thathe supported a waiver in its opposition to a negotiated agreement to elimi­
U.S. demand that Japan's· auto nate Japane~e barrier~ or­
Budget plan omits tax cuts 
ByALANFRAM 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
The chairman of the Senate Budget Committee plans to un­veil a deficit-reduction proposal next week that omits -for now -the tax cuts so strongly sup­ported by many Republicans. 
To the ire of some conserva­tives and the skepticism of Democrats, the budget pro­posed by Chairman Pete Domenici, R-N.M., would in­stead let Congress trim taxes only after lawmakers approve spending cuts that the nonpar­tisan Congressional Budget Of­fice certifies would balance the budget by 2002. 
Once that is achieved, Domenici's measure would al­low about $170 billion in tax reductions over seven years ­more than President Clinton has proposed, but less than ap­proved by the GOP-controlled House. 
That figure represents the "economic bonus" Republicans say the government would enjoy as a result of balancing the budget. thanks to lower in­terest rates and increased eco­nomic activity. 
Pushed by conservative rivals in his race for the Hepublican presidential nomination, Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole, R­Kan., has said the Senate will approve tax cuts this year. 
But Congress is now moving from talking about the budget to working on it, and Domenici's language seeks to balance the demands of senior Republicans like himself who see deficit reduction as their top priority, and conservatives eager to also slash taxes. 
"You've got to complete the primary task of balancing the budget,'' Domenici said in 
"I don't believe the people I'm in contact with want a tax cut before you get a balanced budget." 
But Domenici is being fought by conservative Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas, one of Dole's presidential rivals and a mem­ber of the Budget Committee. 
In an interview, Gramm said Domenici's approach would not deliver the tax cuts Republicans promised during last fall's elec­tion campaign. 
Under the figures Domenici is using, just $79 billion of the $170 billion in seven-year tax cuts could occur in the first five years, and only $24 billion could take effect in the first three years. 
"It would provide virtually no tax relief until well into the next administration. That's not acceptable," Gramm said. 
Gramm said he would try to add tax reductions. and spend­ing cuts to pay for them, to Domenici's plan either at the Budget Committee or later on the Senate floor. 
Democrats said they were suspicious about cutting taxes on the assumption they would be paid for by an economic bonus resulting from elimina­tion of the deficit. 
''I'm very fearful of falling back into the familiar scenario of the early 1980s, when Ronald Reagan gave us a sce­nario of a balanced budget in four years and having a tax cut," said Sen. James Exon of Nebraska, senior Democrat on the budget panel. "The worst vote I ever cast in my life was in support of that." 
Mainstream economists from both parties agree that a bal­anced budget would allow in­terest rates to drop slightly, which would mean reduced borrowing costs for the Trea­to increased economic activity. But many of them say there is no way to predict how much extra money that would mean for the Treasury, since the economy reacts to many differ­ent factors. 
Domenici plans to present his deficit-reduction package to his committee Monday for the first time. It will mark the beginning of Congress' effort to deliver on Republican campaign promises to balance the budget. 
The House Budget Committee plans to vote on its package May 11, and it is certain to re­flect the five-year, $189 billion tax cut already approved by the House. 
Clinton has proposed $63 bil­lion worth of tax cuts over five years. 
Congress is likely to work until June on its budget, which will outline spending and tax cuts. 
This summer and fall, law­makers will then debate a sepa­rate bill containing specific spending reductions. 
Under Domenici's plan, it is that bill the Congressional Budget Office would have to certify as balancing the budget before legislators could then approve tax reductions. 
According to several Senate Republicans, Domenici's budget will propose seven-year savings including: 
•$250 
billion from Medicare, the health-care program for the elderly and disabled; 

•$160 
billion from Medicaid, which helps the poor pay medi­cal bills; 

•$220 
billion from agricul­ture, veterans and other benefit programs; 

•$200 
billion from other domestic programs; 

•Freezing 
defense spending level at roughly $270 billion 



Wednesday, May 3, 1995 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page 11 . 
-;:::::=~======================::;:::;~======~~;---:---------;-~--~ -~ ~ 
· Murderer begs to b~ eJSe£Ut¥d 
Veterans' protests 
By MICHAEL GIARRUSSO Department of Corrections :.;;.;;' ..I SPe. rny execution as an 
oust museum head 
Associated Press were to watch Zettlemoyer get end or suffering to my 
BELLEFONTE, Pa. 

Keith Zettlemoyer begged the courts to let him die, pleading that "brain dis(~ase" made his life in prison hell. 
After more than a decade of appeals, Zettlemoyer recently fired his attorneys and faced his fate Tuesday night as the first person to be put to dt~ath in Pennsylvania in 33 years. 
Last-minute appeals were pending before the Pennsylva· nia Supreme Court. 
But the U.S. Supreme Court rofused Tuesday evening to grant a stay or to hear an appeal. 
Up to 12 wltllflsses-six re· porters and six chosen by the strapped down to a gurney in a imprisonment -a blessed, 10-by-14 foot room and receive mercifulrelease from all these an injection of barbiturat.es health symptoms thatrm con-and paralytic agents designed\;;;;Stantly suffering with~'!: he teS· to kill swiftly and painlessly. tified Saturday in U$HDistrict 
Zettlemoyer was convicted of Court. ·if+"" the 1980 murder of a friend Attorneys for the Pennsylva­who planned to testify against nia Post~Conviction Defender him in a robbery trial. ~:\ Organization argued that 
His victim's mother support~;; Zettlemoyer was not mentally ed a last-minute appeal, saying · compet~~~ to decide his. oyyn she could not abide by the fate. #:k: vAl ~1\;i, death penalty under any cir· Three psychiatrists tesht'fed cumstances. ·•t*' that Zettlemoyer was sane. 
Zettlemoyer, 39, has been dk,J&' "l'.Jll not crazy. I'mnot loony. agnosed with post traumatic' : l unders'tand perfectly what's stress disorder. He complained going on with the execution in court of an unspecified and everything," Zettlemoyer "brain disease," though doc· said. . .;;Z;; tors said they could find noth~ . 'Zettleltl,Qyer was convicted of 
ing physically wrong. NWf\fS:~ -~"ftltw:JJ <;harles+DeVets~o~ 

By MIKE FEINSILBER Smithsonian's board of regents, Associated Press suggested he was still not satis­-----------fied. WASHINGTON "I feel confident that we will 
The director of the Smithso­continue to make sure that all nian Institution's Air and Space of the museums are on the Museum resigned Tuesday. a right track," Johnson said. casualty of protests by World "This resignation is the first in War II veterans over the way a long line of management the museum had planned to changes that I expect to see." depict the atomic bombing of Another congressional critic, Japan 50 years ago. Rep. Peter Blute, R-Mass., said 
"I believe that nothing less Harwit had backed an exhibit than my stepping down from "dedicated to political correct· the directorship will satisfy the ness and revisionist history museum's critics and allow the rather than truth and hal· museum to move forward with ance." important new projects," said "Martin Harwit was primari· Martin Harwit, noting that the ly responsible for the broadly controversy over the Enola Gay acknowledged bias of this exhibit had not ended with its exhibit and was a willing par­cancellation. ticipant in the effort to prevent 
The Enola Gay was the B-29 changes at all costs," Blute that dropped the atom bomb said. over Hiroshima on Aug. 6, In January, the American 1945. Legion demanded the cancella­
Following a second atomic tion, citing "highly debatable attack, over Nagasaki, Japan information which calls into surrendered on Aug. 14, end­question the morality and mo· ing the war. tives of President Truman's de­
Harwit's critics said the ex­cision to end World War II 
hibit, as planned, would have quickly and decisively by using 
depicted the United States as the atomic bomb." 
the aggressor and Japan as the Eighty-one members of the 
victim of World War II. House of Representatives then 
Following Harwit's resigna· called for Harwit's removal. tion, one of his critics, Rep. Singled out as an example of Sam Johnson, R-Texas, who the exhibit's tone was one of was named in January to the the original wall legends. 
WITH DEEP APPRECIATION 
to 
Eugene McClory Associate Director 
and 
Mary Ann Roemer Coordinator: Post Graduate Volunteer Programs 
for 
A TOTAL OF 31 YEARS OF COMMITMENT AND SERVICE 
to 
STUDENTS, FACULTY, ALUMNI AND STAFF 


of 
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

and Staffofthe Center for Social Concerns 

The Smithsonian Museums aren't the only things free in Washington, DC 


Join the 
Notre Dame Club of Washington, DC 
It's FREE for first year graduates! 
May Jrd Class of 96 Cookout 
4:30 -7 at Stonehenge 
COME JOIN THE JUNIOR CLASS FOR FREE BURGERS, CHIPS, AND SODA WITH YOUR STUDENT I.D. 
TWEAK AND THE ROAD APPLES WILL BE PLAYING. THIS WILL BE THE ROAD APPLES FINAL PERFORMANCE AT NOTRE DAME! 

Senior Last Visit 
to 

Sacred Heart & the Grotto 
A celebration offour years offriendship in song, readings, and poetry. Sacred music of the Notre Dame Glee Club and Folk Choir. 
Thursday, May 18 at 9:00pm starting at the Basilica 
0fv\f'US, 
MNI5TRY 

Sponsored by Campus Ministry and the Class of1995 
Call 202-686-5882 today for 
_._

a membership application. 
1~1 
Wednesday, May 3, 1995

The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEM,ENT 
Preliminary Report ofthe Ad Hoc Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs Submitted to Professor Patricia A. O'Hara, Vice President for Student Affairs 
I
n your March 6, 1995, Open Letter to the Notre Dame community, you announced the creation of the Ad Hoc Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs. You asked that the committee provide you with two written reports, a preliminary report by May 1, 1995, and a final report by no later than December 6, 1995. This shall serve as the Preliminary Report of the Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs. 
The membership of the committee is as follows: Sister }oris Binder, O.P. 
Rector ofPasquerilla East 
Rev. David Burrell, c.s.c. 
Hesburgh Professor ofTheology and Philosophy 
Rev. Robert Dowd, C.S.C. 
Assistant Director ofCampus Ministry 
Ms. Ann M. Firth (Chair) 

Assistant to the Vice Presidentfor Student Affairs 
Rev. Terence Linton, C.S.C. 
Rector ofGrace Hall 
Mr. Dennis McCarthy 

Student Body Vice President, 1995-96 
Ms. Sharon Miller 
Graduate Student 
Mr. Jonathan Patrick 

Student Body President, 1995-96 
Professor Maura Ryan 

Assistant Professor ofTheology 
Mr. Anthony Silva 
Undergraduate Student 

Dr. Susan Steibe-Pasalich 
Assistant Director ofthe University Counseling Center 
Dr. Patrick Utz 

Director ofthe University Counseling Center 
Rev. Richard V. Warner, c.s.c. 
Director ofCampus Ministry 
I 
n your March 6 letter, you outlined the committee's mandate. You asked us to consider the following questions: 
(1) 
How can the University, through Student Affairs, sponsor a facilitated setting respectful of church teaching in which gay and lesbian students can come together as a group to explore common issues and find mutual support? 

(2) 
What types of programs should Student Affairs sponsor for rectors, hall staff and other Student Affairs professionals to better equip them to meet the needs of our gay and lesbian students? 

(3) 
What additional measures should Student Affairs take to promote an environment free of harassment based on sexual orientation? The committee has met three times over the past seven 


weeks, and we plan to meet at least once more before the end of the academic year. We have spent much of our time together in dialogue as a committee. We also have had the opportunity to hear from several gay undergraduates, as well as from the co­chairs of GLND/SMC. 
We have focused our energy in recent meetings on part two of our mandate, namely on formulating recommendations regarding those programs Student Affairs might sponsor for rectors, hall staff and other Student Affairs professionals to better equip them to meet the needs of our gay and lesbian students. We have chosen to concentrate our early efforts on this area because we are hopeful that our recommendations might be implemented as early as fall 1995, when hall staff will once again participate in staff training and orientation. 
The committee affirms and wholeheartedly endorses the 
following passage from your March 6letter: We value our gay and lesbian students, as we value all students who are members of this community. We want the University to be a safe and inclusive environment in which every student can pursue the educational endeavor to which we are committed-free from harassment of any kind. As with all our students, we want to meet the needs of our gay and lesbian students. We seek to do so through appropriate channels-channels that we believe are best equipped to address the issues with which gay and lesbian students deal and channels that allow us to balance our desire to support our gay and lesbian students with our responsibility to remain faithful to the teachings of the Catholic Church. 
ln light of the above statement, we offer the following 
recommendations with regard to part two of our mandate: Recommendation No.1: That the Office of Student Affairs incorporate a workshop on how to assist the gay or lesbian student into its orientation program for all resident assistants and assistant rectors. 
Recommendation No. 2: That the Office of Student Affairs offer continuing professional education to all residence hall rectors on the psychosexual development of college-age students, both heterosexual and homosexual. 
In determining the content and format of these workshops, the Office of Student Affairs should call upon the University Counseling Center, Campus Ministry, and, most importantly, upon our own gay and lesbian students for input. 
Recommendation No. 3: That the Office of Student Affairs make available resources to assist rectors in sensitizing their staffs and hall residents to the needs of gay and lesbian students. 
Recommendation No. 4: That in their words of welcome at the beginning of the year, residence hall rectors be encouraged to specifically articulate their willingness to be a resource for those who are struggling with issues of sexual identity or who are convinced of their homosexuality. Rectors should also communi­cate to the hall community the University's intolerance for harassment on the basis of sexual orientation. 
In terms of their interactions with hall staff, the gay and lesbian undergraduates with whom we have spoken generally reported positive experiences. At the same time, the students expressed feelings of great loneliness and isolation, particularly during their first year at Notre Dame. 
By sensitizing members of the hall community and by having rectors specifically articulate their willingness to support those who are either struggling with or who are convinced of their homosexual orientation, the committee hopes to minimize the very real suffering experienced by some of our students. 
I 
n the months ahead, the committee will address the other portions of its mandate. There is much work to be done. We intend to spend a significant portion of our time listening to gay students on our campus, both undergradu­ate and graduate. We intend to invite gay members of the faculty to speak with us so that we might benefit from their insights and perspectives. We will seek assistance in reaching a more complete understanding of the theological and ethical issues which must frame our conversation at a Catholic university. We will seek advice from those who are equipped to provide us with useful information from the field of psychology. 
We thank you for your continued support for the work of the committee. Respectfully submitted, 
Ann M. Firth 
Chair May1, 1995 

Wednesday, May 3, 1995 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 13 
Curiosity opens door to computing with DNA 
By JANE ALLEN solution, a series of these 
Associated Press 
Using DNA to solve math problems tests would pick out the 
strands that hold the right

LOS ANGELES Strands of DNA can be combined and separated according to mathematical rules, until only strands representing a solution to aproblem remain. For series. Computer scientist Leonard example, here's how data-storing DNA could be sorted to find only those strands where the first and second numbers in asequence are the same: For more complicated Adleman watched as associates problems, Beaver explained 
fr! 

~~~.r~~:a~~~i~a~/~~~~c~:~~ 8 ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~y~~~f~t ~~~~e:;;i~a~~~f~~;r:~~·:~;:;:;:;.~ §~..~ ~ ~ ~~ irt~f~~J.0r.E0~~ 
which contain the blueprints quenceofnumbers. First,eachstrandissifted that word. for the assembly of everything Mathematical rules intooneoftwovats, Theneachvatis Sinceonlytwoofthevatscontain Tosolveacomplexproblem, Then another sticky from tiny viruses to the biggest are applied to depending on whether the separated into two more DNA where the first and second this combining and sorting can chemical marker has to be mammals. And he was struck determine how the number sequence coded in vats, depending on digits are the same, these two vats be continued until all that used to separate out those by how similar the laboratory strands are to be the strand begins with a whether the second digit can be combined while the other remains are strands of DNA strands that have a particu­cutting, splicing and copying of sorted. zero or aone. is aone or azero. two vats can be discarded. representing the answer. Jar word in the second posi­
these strands were to the rna-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ tio~~dsoon. nipulations of numbers he per-Source: Prof. Leonard Adleman, University of Southern California AP/KariTate Because it relies on sim­fQrmed with computers. cutes to compute a relatively colleagues took notice and The sequences of A,C,T, and pie chemical reactions rather 
Then came the light bulb. simple and common mathemat-began trying to build on his G molecules are "kind of like than the movement of electrons Could DNA somehow be har-ical problem. work. LEGO pieces that stick to-on silicon chips, the process is nessed to tackle calculations, That problem, involving a Instead of the chains of sim-gether," said Don Beaver, a more energy-efficient-at its 
perhaps more efficiently than theoretical travel itinerary, is pie numbers used by silicon cryptographer and assistant simplest, you don't need any man-made machines? still the only one that has been chip-based computers, or let-professor of computer science electricity. The University of Southern solved using his DNA technique. ters used to make words in and engineering at Penn State. DNA computing should yield California computer science But as soon as he published human language, the basic To test his theory, Adleman some solutions a million times 
professor devised a test using a his results in November in the units encoding DNA's informa­batch of synthetic DNA mole-journal Science, some of his tion are four tiny molecules 

Happy 
st Birthday 
Andrea!! 
Love, Mom, Dad, Mildred, Carlo, Alex & Scout 
called adenine, cytosine, gua­
nine and thymine. They're ab­
breviated A, C, G and T. 
These four building blocks 
can fit together to form more 
complex numbers or words, 
which then combine to make 
larger words. 
--·----· ----------------~­
y 'Y 
8td 'N 8rtaktast A~lstry 
~ Soudr &ntb Flnt Registry ofPrivate Home• &rvlng Partnts antiFriends of Notre Dame anti SL Mary'• College 
11y the OPTION! 
£¥11• "HOIIWA_,ft-HOIIW" 

PIIPICT POl., •• OIADUATIOI FOOTIALL 
FIURHAK OliUTATIOI liUIUO"S 
Wilma L Behnke 219-291-7153 
used a form of the Traveling faster than electronic comput­Salesman problem, a simple ers because billions of DNA puzzle which requires picking molecules could carry out bit­the shortest flight route to con-lions of operations simultane­nect seven cities with no more ously, even though each indi­than one stop at each. vidual step might be fairly slow. 
He gave each trip segment a "We've grown accustomed to flight number represented by a thinking computers have to piece of DNA made of a particu-look like our PCs or Macs," says lar. sequence of those A, C, T Adleman. "But the molecular and G molecules. Mixing those computer ... raises the question pieces together in a solution of whether the world is full of then allowed them to stick to-computers just waiting to be gether and form various new discovered." combinations, like stringing But don't expect to see DNA words together to make a new computers knock PCs off store sentence. shelves anytime soon. 
To read the answer, a sepa-"The door has just opened. rate chemical reaction has to We certainly haven't thought of be used to determine the identi-all the potentials," says Erie ty of each little group of As, Cs, Baum, a specialist in artificial Ts and Gs along a strand of intelligence at NEC Hesearch DNA. Institute in Princeton, N.J. 
For problems with one unique 
Being astudent is hard. So we've made buying aMacintosh& easy. So easy, in fact, that the prices on Macintosh personal 
computers are now even lower

1Wo thingsyou can afford to miss. than their already low student 
prices. Unfortunately, they won't stay this low forever. Soyou need to forget about how hard your life is for a minute and start thinking about how easy it will bewithaMacintosh.Thecomput­-er that gives you the power any student can use. The power to be 
RIGHT NOW AT YOUR CAMPUS RESELLER.  your bese  ,_ Appletl  
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB •631-7477 M-F 9am-5pm  


i'rlxhJd prias, produd aiKlilabi/ily andsaki /aXeS may twy. tel1995 Apple Compu/er, Inc. All rights reserved Apple, the Apple logo, Macinlosb, Macinlosb PefomttJ, PowerBook and '711e power frJ beyour best" are rogislertd traJemaris ofA{Jflle Compu1er; Inc. l'otm Macinlmb and Mac aro traJemaris ofA{Jflle Computer, Inc. All Apple'produc/s are designed to be accessible frJ Individuals wllh disabilily. 7b learn more (U.S. only), a~U 800-776-WJ or 1VD 800·833-6m. 
'"·TY-~-.C · ""..-.,. ..... . -..-.-.\ ~-.,. ··0'" r.· ·. .--f ' ':''"
page 14 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, May 3, 1995 
~ 
]§ ~ 
~ 
~ 
al 
:!V 
"l' 
B 
:!l ~ 
.. 
.... 0 !;;: -~ "' •
~ 
g
, 
m 
.l'l 
r 
l ~ 
.2 
.£ 

EVERY VACATION, THE SMITHS ALWAYS COUNTED ON TWO THINGS: LOTS OF 1-800-COLLECT CALLS HOME, AND ANN COLLIDING WITH THE BOAT. 
1-800-COLLECT ® Save The PeopleYou Call Up To 44%. 
Wednesday, May 3, 1995 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 15 
Weather report heats up as streaker runs by 
LIVERPOOL, England 
A streaker ran onto Britain's airwaves Tuesday during a live weather report. 
The weather reports on the lTV network's "This Morning" program normally feature fore­caster Fred Talbot prancing about on a 50-foot-wide map of Britain and Ireland afloat in the Uverpool Docks. 
The streaker, taking a run­ning leap from the nearby docks, joined Talbot aboard the n.oating podium. 
As Talbot tried to continue with his report, the streaker ran from England into Wales, fully exposing himself to sever· al million viewers and a cheer­ing aockslde crowd. He stum­bled into the sea while trying to leap from Scotland to Northern Ireland. 
When the streaker pulled himself back onto dry land, a stunned Talbot handed him his clipboard to cover himself. No action was brought against the streaker. 
The program's husband-and· wife hosts, Richard Maddeley and Judy Finnigan, asked to meet the streaker. . · 
The streaker identified· him" self to reporters as Mark Roberts. . . 
"He told us he had done it because it was a sunny day an . it was a bit of fun," Maddeley said. "Anyone who fails to ~ the funny side needs a sense~ of-humor trans lant." 
Recycle The Observer 
Interrogation leads to death 
Palestinians claim suspect was tortured 
By DAN PERRY 
Associated Press 
HEBRON, West Bank 
Hours after being seized by Israeli Shin Bet agents who sus­pected he was a key Islamic militant, Abdel-Samad Harizat lay mortally wounded in an Is­raeli hospital. An autopsy sug­gested he was tortured. 
Israeli officials say tough in­terrogation methods are neces­sary in the effort to stem sui­cide bombings by Islamic mili­tants. 
Palestinians dispute whether Harizat, a 29-year-old comput­er operator who stood only 4­foot-7, was a senior activist in the fundamentalist Hamas group. They say his death deep­ens hatreds at a time when the peace process is in trouble. 
"What happened to Harizat is an execution," said Nabil Abu Irdeineh, the spokesman of Palestinian leader Vasser Arafat. "Israel is not only killing Palestinian prisoners but I think they are killing the whole peace process." 
Evidence suggests Harizat may have been politically ac­tive. 
He spent three months in Is­raeli prison in 1993 and was fined $1,350 for distributing Hamas leaflets. 
His employer, a Hebron pub­lishing house known as a center of fundamentalist support, was closed by Israel and has since reopened under another name. 
Manager Jewad Said said Harizat supported the funda­mentalists but kept politics out of the office. He was "a simple but educated person, very nice to customers," Said said. 
Abdallah Harizat, 32, said his younger brother had no links to Hamas. But his mother Fatma, 60, conceded that if he did, he would have likely kept them hidden. 
"But how can somebody so small destroy Israel?" she asked, weeping and clasping her hands together as she re­ceived relatives offering condo­lences Tuesday at her home on Hebron's outskirts. 
A top security official, who spoke on condition of anonymi­ty, maintained the agency had several leads that Harizat was deeply involved in plans for a car bombing in Israel. 
"Just because he was small does not mean he was inca­pable of being a senior member in the military wing of Hamas. We do not accuse him of firing rockets," the official said. 
Fatma Harizat said Israeli troops seized her son at the family home after midnight on Saturday, April 22, blindfolding and beating him. Family mem­bers were then locked in a room while troops searched the house, she said. 
Security sources said Hamas leaflets were found. 
Abdallah Harizat said Israeli agents returned Sunday to summon him and his mother to Jerusalem's Hadassah Ein­Karem hospital. where they were told his brother had been admitted Saturday. The pris­oner was unconscious, legs shackled. Two days later the 
hospital declared him dead. • The Shin Bet has denied Harizat was tortured. 
But in an affidavit published this week, Derrick Pounder, a Scottish pathologist who partic­ipated in Harizat's autopsy at the family's request, said he died of "trauma to the brain" caused by "violent shaking." 
Reflecting Palestinian anger, the Arabic-language AI-Manar weekly wrote that the incident "will only deepen the hatred between Israelis and Palestini­ans." 
Israeli legislators called for a reassessment of interrogation practices and the Justice Min­istry and Shin Bet both launched inquiries. Harizat's two investigators were trans­ferred to desk jobs and one of them was suspended. 
The Haaretz daily said in an editorial that Israel's pressing security needs did not justify torture. Harizat's death in cus­tody "is an incident no decent society can let pass," Haaretz wrote. 
But there was little protest among average Israelis, who have grown increasingly out­raged at the fundamentalists' terror attacks and generally support tough action against them. 
Government spokesman Uri Dromi said the Shin Bet had no choice but to exert some pres­sure on detainees. 
"We are facing the threat of the most fanatic and cruel ter­rorism that America is only just starting to taste," he said. 
Bombings and shootings by Hamas and a smaller funda­mentalist group, Islamic Jihad, have killed 105 Israelis since January 1994. 


---------. 
page 16 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, May 3, 1995 
-

Thank You for· Your Support! 
ltfAPP~ One Day Only! May 3rd, 1995
!&''' tO'lJ ON.o
fU, ·~~~ From 9 am -5 pm 
~ 
' 

I0% Off your purchases* -Special 
..

·Music Coupon Promotion ­Many Other Great Savings 
Register to Win One of Several Special Prizes -TV's,WalkMans' Exercise Equipment and More! 
The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
"on the campus" Open Monday • Saturday 9 am -5pm 



Wednesday, May 3, 1995 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 17 
French team finds queenS pyramid 
Serb rockets blast Zagreb streets 
By BRANKA KOSTOVSKA landed in their school yard. The Associat~d Pr~ss city's schools were closed until Bosnia updatefurther notice. 
0 Bosnian Serb fill Serb-held Croatia
ZAGREB, Croatia "We've never received so 
• Government-Croat 0 U.N.-designated
Serb rockets slammed into many wounded civilians, not 
federation "sale zoness
Zagreb's teeming streets Tues­even in the worst days of the day, killing at least five people, 1991 war," said Ivan Lukovn­wounding 121 and terrorizing jak, deputy head of Zagreb's residents who hadn't seen such emergency hospital. carnage since the 1991 civil An employee who answered war. the telephone at the U.S. Em­
The rocket attack came in re­bassy, only about 50 yards from sponse to a Croatian army of­the blast, said embassy workers fensive Monday in which the were sent to shelters. Zagreb government claimed The embassy later evacuated victory in routing Serb rebels dependents and advised U.S. from a key swath of territory citizens to leave Croatia. they had occupied since the The Zagreb rocket attacks 1991 war. were "tantamount to a declara­
But the triumph could be a tion of full-scale war" by the mere prelude to a new and Serbs, U.S. Ambassador Peter more dangerous round of Galbraith told Cable News Net­Balkan warfare. In neighboring work. Bosnia, Bosnian Serb leader Five missiles landed close to Radovan Karadzic threatened the airport, south of the city. to send help to rebel Serbs in Military sources said the rock­

Recent developments
Croatia, underlying the dangers ets were fired by Serb forces 
D Sarajevo's center was pounded by
that the two conflicts could close to Zagreb's southern out­
anti-aircraft shells from Bosnian Serbs.
merge. skirts. 
Sniper fire also increased.
Authorities said 11 rocket­Two air raid alarms sounded propelled cluster bombs hit the later in the day but no more fl Fighting continued Tuesday for a 
city and its outskirts. Six rock­missiles hit, although residents strategic Serb-held ets slammed into Zagreb's very still feared further possible telecommunications tower on Mount heart, downtown streets filled Serb reprisals. Stolice, overlooking Tuzla. with shoppers and a park "I just pray to God this was 
11 Heavy fighting continued near the
where people were taking a all they planned for us," said 
Posavina corridor, which connects
mid-morning stroll. Natasa Vicic, a retired cleaning 
Serb-held regions of Croatia and
On sidewalks, blood stains lady. 
western Bosnia with Serb holdings in
mixed with glass shards from The Croatian offensive began 
eastern Bosnia and Serbia. 
smashed shop fronts. Monday to seize a section of the APNim. J. Castellc
Covererl bodies lay on a street key Zagreb-Belgrade highway close to the twin-towered and isolate one of the four large rain, carried their belongingscathedral. Cars burned near chunks of territory captured by on foot and riding on tractors.
downtown Zrinjevac Square, a Serb rebels in the 1991 conflict. 
They were protected by retreat­prime location and site of the Croatian fighter planes struck ing soldiers as they headed toU.S. Embassy and the Foreign twice Tuesday at a key bridge Bosanska Gradiska, which itself 
Ministry. connecting Serb holdings in 
has been under Croatian fire. 
At least five people died and Bosnia and Croatia across the In all, the fighting has sent121 were wounded, the Interior Sava river at Bosanska about 5,000 Croatian Serbs into Ministry said. The attack was a Gradiska. The attacks left the Bosnia, the United Nations said chilling reminder for Zagreb's 1 bridge standing but damaged. 
Tuesday.
million residents that this Croatian troops entered Oku­
The fighting -the worst
week's offensive hasn't cani, a Serb stronghold on the since the 1991 war that killedremoved Serb gunners who are highway, sending panicked at least 10,000 people and leftjust 30 miles away. Serb fighters and civilians a third of Croatia in rebel SerbAmong the wounded were streaming into Serb-held parts hands -came as a widely vio­two schoolchildren, including a of Bosnia. 
lated four-month truce expired12-year old with shrapnel in Hundreds of bedraggled in neighboring Bosnia. 
her spine, hit when a rocket refugees, drenched by heavy 
By EILEEN ALT POWELL 
Associated Press 
CAIRO, Egypt 

Archaeologists have discov­ered a 4,000-year-old pyramid for a previously unknown queen at Sakkara, famous for the step-pyramid that was the precursor of Egypt's major pharaonic monuments. 
The find was announced Tuesday by French archaeolo­gist Jean Leclant and Abdel­Halim Noureddin, president of Egypt's Supreme Council for Antiquities. 
"It's a very, very important discovery," Noureddin told re­porters. "This no doubt will add much information for us about this period of the Old Kingdom." 
He and the French archaeo­logical team said further re­search would be needed to pin down exactly who the queen was. 
Inscriptions found at the pyramid and adjacent funerary temple identify her as Queen Meritites, and Leclant says she is believed to be the daughter or granddaughter of Pharaoh Pepil. 
Pepi I ruled during the 6th Dynasty. which lasted from 2345 B.C. to 2181 B.C., and the team believes Meritites was part of the royal family that held power until about 2160 B.C. 
Her name translates as "beloved of her father." 
Pepi I is buried at Sakkara, south of the great pyramids on the Giza plateau, and the French Archaeological Mission headed by Leclant has found a trio of pyramids for his three wives in the last five years. 
The new pyramid, long hid­den in the sand, looks more like a pile of rocks than ·a monument to royalty. 
But Leclant proudly showed part of a stele, inscribed with Pepi I's name, that has been raised atop a rebuilt section of the funerary temple, where people worshipped the dead queen as a divine intercessor. 
"For a scholar, it is a big pleasure to know a little more of the story of ancient Egypt," said Leclant, 74, who has worked on digs in Egypt for nearly 50 years. 
Sakkara is best known for the six-step pyramid of Pharaoh Zozer. Royal architect Imhotep built the 180-foot structure in about 2620 B.C. It evolved within decades to the straight-sided shape of pyra­mids including the famous trio at Giza. 
Zahi Hawass, director of an­tiquities for Sakkara and the Giza plateau, said the first clue to the existence of Queen Meri­tites' pyramid came earlier this year when the French team found a large limestone "false door." Further digging re­vealed the remains of the su­perstructure. 
He estimated that at the time of its construction, it stood about 160 feet high. What re­mains of the superstructure is about 18 feet tall. 
Hawass said the style of the hieroglyphic writing and the mud-brick and limestone con­struction date the pyramid to the 8th Dynasty, about 2173 
B.C. to 2160 B.C. 
Only one other 8th Dynasty pyramid has been uncovered, he said. 
"I am sure that when the ex­pedition continues next year, it will find another pyramid ­perhaps even three -to the west" of the latest find, he added. 
He said Queen Meritites' pyramid is the 97th uncovered in Egypt. 

Have you always dreamed 
about1 going ah[Q~d for ~e summed 
< ,_.. ·'~, 
•• , 
<1 " 
Let the Hi~t<;>jy ~pep art \,en ake you there 
-~ -~ .pH:~) 
without··eyer h~ving, __ o pack\ Enroll in a 
.. ..-.. i, ,;> ~ 
summ·el~'T::'tiFo~~a.n Hist~r class...
;\t.~,'fo· r~ 'O.;~~·A} r~.J.. ] 
..(:it,"'s the nex'''~ best\~··· i g! 
-~!~'; 
'•j 

I 
~"""~~ 
HIST 32~: Cktholic Chttr~h~in ~,rn Eur~~t 
.··"can# 314()·' 0 )'~ .. ·~j ··~~ ·..
· •• 
HIST 381: Hitler;s Germ~ ~nd ~ffili';);~.,_ Call # 3148 ;.. J '':·~ .$"·'.:, ···~ . ~ 
11
HIST 383: British Rule in Irelarz,d,Africa a II! 
II ;
Call# 3149 HIST 428: Fragile Glory: France since 1789. Call# 3150 
PROTECT YOUR CREATIVE PROPERTY! 
Special student memberships are available ,in 
THE NATIONAL WRITERS LEAGUE 
Safeguard your Ideas, Treatments, Scripts, Book.'i 
or Manuscripts. For membership information 
and a free Property Registration Kit, 
CALL (219) 287-5082 
We're heap. And Easy . 
Why pay more for the "convenience" of on-cam­pus shipping when BoxesPius doesn't raise its year end prices and has free pick-up at your dorm or apartment? Boxes plus can pack and ship anything. Cheaply and Easily. 
8-~XES PLUS 

(For descriptions ofthe courses we are offtring:J you can pick up Summer Session bulletins in room 312:J Main Building) 

You can also buy your boxes & shipping materials at BoxesPius 5622 Grape Rd. Wilshire Plaza Mishawaka 
277-5555 

VIEWPOINT 
page 18 Wednesday, May 3, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief john Lucas Managing Editor Business Manager Suzanne Fry Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................David Tyler Advertising Manager...........................john Poner Viewpoint Editor..................Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager .......................Ryan Malayrer Spans Editor.............................fv!ike Norbut Production Manager ..................Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor .........................Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................Sean Gallavan Photo Editor..................................Rob Finch Observer Marketing Director..........Pete Coleman Saint Mary's Editor ....................Patti Carson Controller .............................................Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and nor necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu Genera1Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 

..LAND Gf lUE R?fA\(... 
... UCN\E OF 1UEGRfl.'JE... 

• IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD 
Shades ofracism taint national institutions 
Let's talk race.  I think the  we can not overcome four hun­ talked about fairness.  Racism has a  lot to do with  so.  I think the situation we are  
racial aspect of Affirmative  dred years of overwhelming  He said, in essence, that for  power, and black people simply  now  in  is  one  that  expect  
Action upsets people more than  national, institutional. system­ way too long white people had  don't have that kind of power_  minorities and women to forget  
the gender aspect.  Most peo­ atical racism in 30 years.  Will  been killing blacks for little or  This reverse racism nonsense  past discrimination and op­ 
ple, of course, don't want to  it take four hundred years as  no reason, and it was time for  is used a lot of time in the argu­ pression and all of a sudden  
admit to 1t, but it's definitely  well, hmm, I doubt it, but def­ black people to start doing  ment against the practice of  pretend and act like every thing  
true.  Race has, for far too long,  initely not in my lifetime.  Given  something about it.  He said  race-based scholarships (which  is peaches and cream.  That is  
been taboo.  A hush-hush topic.  this, we have programs such as  Black South Africans should get  comprise a whopping 2% of all  unrealistic and unfair.  
"Oooo don't talk about race, it  Affirmative Action to hopefully  their guns, their spears, any  scholarships offered).  It's like  The question of the century is  
might make ============== eat somebody at  away the  and all weapons together. They should get united and give the  the rich man having a hissy fit because the poor man found a  whether or not white people, not only in this country, will be  
mad_" So. I have no p.roblems  Cristiane  brick wall minorities a n d  White South Africans twenty­four hours to get out of the country.  dollar.  Don't give me that.  willing to give up some of their natural born privileges in the name of equality and fairness,  
talking women about race, have to it is when climb.Likelypeople say I can stupid stuff hear peo­that I get ----============---­ple yelling angry. Or especially when peo­at me now saying "That's not ple ask me stupid questions. fair! That's not fair!" Well,  And after those twenty-four hours for any whites that were left, they should start killing them without hesitation. They should kill all the white men, all white women, and white chil­dren. Yes, even the children, Brother Khallid Muhammed  ' Let me put it like this, whatever glory days these people are talking about, black folks weren't exactly in  and I doubt that. The fact of the matter is that black people have to work twice as hard to get half as far, and frankly that pisses me off. My father is a testament to that, but I won't go there....not today anyway.  
Hey, this is the deal, ask me an intelligent question, and you'll get a truthful answer_ Ask a stupid question, you get dissect. Let me also say that I  let's take a look at what is real­ly fair. A few years ago, one of the most dynamic people I have ever had a conversation with, Brother Khallid Abdul  said, because they will grow up and oppress black people as well. And when told that mur­der is wrong, Brother Muhammed said it may not  the picture in a favor­able light. Bump the "glory years'.'  So do I think Affirmative Action is a bad thing? Nope. Race is a very important thing to most black people, and eth­nic minorities as well, and to  
am in no way the University of  Muhammed from the Nation of  make it right, but it sure makes  anyone who says race isn't  
Notre Dame representative of  Islam ( who has also been con- it even, and I happen to agree  important in our everyday lives,  
black students on this campus,  with what he is trying to say.  I guess I should say that I am  our institutions, our goVf,rn­ 
and I speak mostly from my  No one seems to want to real­ not particularly concerned with  ment, and yes, even in our spir­ 
experience, the experience of  ly be fair.  Brother Muhammed  the  so-called  angst  of  itual well-being, I call you a  
other black people, and numer­ous books, articles, and essays that I have read. Now that we have established some ground rules, let me begin. Most people don't realize this, but black folks haven't enjoyed the same legal and con­stitutional freedoms that white  '}guess I should say that I am not par­ticularly concerned with the so-called angst of Generation X, because I think it is  said that our government didn't give the Japanese in Hiroshima and Nagasake during World War II any warning, and how is that not murder or equally damnable_ "Hey", Brother Muhammed said, "at least they had a warning". Now, I don't advocate killing  Generation X, because I think it is self-inflicted, media-created bullcrap. I am not particularly concerned with people like Ronald Reagan, George Bush, Newt Gingrich, and even Bill Clinton who want to raise America up to it's alleged for­mer glory years.  fool. Sidenote: I want to give some dap to Jason Williams, Owen Smith, Tracy Graham, Conrad James, Renaldo Wynn, and Greg Midget a.k.a. Models INC. for not only winning and domi­nating the Bookstore Basketball Tournament, but for winning  
folks have until about thirty years or so_ With the signing of the Civil Rights Act, blacks and  self-inflicted, media­created bullcrap.'  anyone, but when it comes to fairness be careful what you ask for, because you just might  Glory years? What glory years? We had NO glory years? People like that worry me. Let  numerous awards as well. Congratulations brothers and I can not wait for next year.  
other ethnic minorities, were  get it. Before you call me a  me put it like this, whatever  Have a good week, people,  
given the right to be equal to  racist and write letters to the  glory days these people are  and I'll check you out in the  
white people.  demned by Congress for com­ Editor, just be warned that I am  talking  about,  black  folks  fall.  Peace.  
Now, of course, any fool can  ments  he  had  made  about  not a racist.  Truthfully, I'm  weren't exactly in the picture in  Cristiane J. Likely is a junior  
tell you that equality didn't  South Africa and blacks in this  sick of this reverse-racism  a favorable light.  Bump the  computer science major.  She  
come instantaneous, and realis­ country, as well as numerous  rhetoric, because it doesn't ex­ "glory years."  lives in Pasquerilla West and  
tically it has yet to come.  So it  other things about Whites,  ist.  Black people can not be  Is fairness what we are trying  can be reached over e-mail at:  
isn't unreasonable to say that  Jews, and the government)  racist.  not  in  this  society.  to achieve?  No, I don't think  clikely@artin.helios. nd. edu  
l/&1? 70. IF111& IJON'TW SVM& CRB?!Bt&, LAR6£3-fXAI.& 5TIJ/JI&5 QUICKL-Y, GIA/5/AJ/t& 7VRN IN7V lH/3 UI.-T/MAT/3 t/JNSPIRJ!C,Y-7HC0f('f 


• DOONESBURY 
PEOPL£ AS51JM£ 7H&YR&BeiNG 
f)l~~! "' 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

YOU'/? LIKE ME 7lJBt:t!EY& lHAT, tf/OUWN'T Y()(J? 
I 
• QUOTE Of THE DAY 
"Aman can only live in his 
own times, but he can make those times worth living in." 
-Henrik Ibsen 

VIEWPOINT
Wednesday, May 3, 1995 page 19 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Thought experiment debunks racial myth 
Dear Editor: he had the chance ..." 
A white man strode quickly down a city street, The black man sufficiently considered, the white man scarcely noticing the people he passed as he scanned casually dismissed him from his thoughts. His eyes, the storefronts lining the way. It was late afternoon instead, wandered to an old woman who maintained a and the tall buildings cast geometric shadows upon the steady course down the middle of the sidewalk despite people walking beneath them. the frenzied pace of the people about her. She was 
The man stopped at a crosswalk and waited for the slightly bent over and her eyes were focused on the air traffic to clear. A gentle warmth crept up his back and in front of her. neck. He felt comfortable standing there, basking in The white man thought she looked familiar, but the sun's fading rays. He tried to imagine what the sun before he could think of who she might be, she fell to must look like sinking to the horizon that the buildings ground with an ignominious thump. Unfazed by the obscured. He was sure he could picture it -he'd seen crush of people that was suddenly upon her, she sim­
··the sight hundreds of times before. ply laid there on the ground. 
As he started across the street he stepped into a Unmoving, she seemed confident of her right to be blinding beam of light and realized that he had been there and, rather than being ashamed of the fact that standing in shadow. He squinted his eyes and moved she had fallen, she was proud that she wasn't hurt. on, forgetting to look back and find out the source of Many people, annoyed by the inconvenience the his warmth. woman represented, rushed by her. Soon, the forgot­
Bored by the storefronts, the man regarded the peo­ten black man was at her side, and the white man ple ahead of him. Eventually, .his gaze fell upon a black watched as he pulled her up to her feet. He realized man who was shuffling down the street. The white that he had slowed when someone bumped into him man couldn't distinguish any features of the black and hurried past. man, who walked in the shadows with his face Smiling, the white man walked forward and came to obscured by darkness. a stop in front of the black man and old woman. Their 
The white man did think he looked athletic and his faces were illuminated by the subtle glow of the sun mind wandered to Michael Jordan. which stole through the spaces between buildings. The 
"What a gifted black man -that guy can jurnp out of black man looked distinctly unfamiliar. The old woman a stadium... he has great charisma too-those com­stared at him with knowing and hopeful eyes. mercials he made with Spike Lee were amusing, The white man turned to the black man and asked although, he shouldn't associate himself with that fa­him, "What is your name?" natic... the guy is so obnoxious-always complaining "Munro" the mystified black man answered. about all the injustices blacks endure ... reminds me of With that, Munro continued on his way. The other that Malcolm X ... what a tyrant. .. preached nothing man looked after him. He smiled as he murmured the but messages of hate and violence... of course, what name, relishing how it felt coming off his tongue. can you expect from a drug-addicted criminal. . . "Nice to meet you Munro" the man said. unfortunately, his example of drugs, violence, and irre­The people hastened by. The buildings loomed. The spons.ibility.. has been followed by every black kid in woman smiled. America... JEREMY JASKUNAS 
The white man looked over at the black man in the Carroll Hall shadows. "...the hoodlum would probably mug me if Sophomore 
~----------------------------------,
TV viewer attacks violence 
Dear Editor: He was my friend. Now ... he bly reduce violence." 
In the solitude of a sluggish is gone. Unfortunately, I realize now Saturday night at home, I con­Ironically, my friend's death that my self-proclaimed "com­vened myself comfortably on constitutes the very category of prehensive" solution lacked the my lazy-boy -feet up, TV academic study which I endeav­comprehensiveness upon which Guide in one hand, remote in ored these last two months to I found it meritorious to preach. the other -gazing into the grasp and better understand: Bounded by its su­bluish-white spectacle pene­the diverse spectrum of vio­perficialness, my solution trating the darkness of my fam­lence. Enrolled in the lacked an entire dimension of ily room. Washington Seminar, I and human existence (one which 
A monotonous hum vocalized twenty other students spent our Federal legislation rarely as I clicked and clicked and entire Spring Break in DC, touches): that is, the personal dieked -harmonizing with the employing a variety of perspec­dimension -our individuality humdrum of nickering and pul­tives (everything from the NRA and the responsibility that lay sating images which emanated to Clinton's Domestic Policy therein. (Please excuse my from the television set like Council) to delve into the causes excessive philosophizing in the chewing gum for my eyes. of and possible solutions to vio­sentences that follow -it is 
Extending my finger to zap lence. derived from a rational thinking away the vast wasteland in dis­In fact, upon our arrival back mind trying to come to terms gust, I suddenly held back: for at ND, I felt fairly certain that I with having recently lost a occupying the screen in teehni­had indeed been enlightened to friend). eolor, I discerned a very famil­a plausible solution Inherent in the abstract iar face -that of my pitching pompously and ignorantly notion of the American in­mentor, Dave Shotkowski. relaying my newfound creed to dividual is its distinguishing 
I yelled in astonishment. My a number of friends. But now, condition of independence. exclamation abruptly shortened equipped with unprecedented Liberated from being contin­to sheer utterance as I shud­vision and insight, I sense an gent upon the guidance and dered, hearing the news expanding horizon of impres­control of other entities, the and personal, smacking me in exist. anchor's report: "A 30 year-old sions concerning violence in individual exercises freedom of the face with the reality of a Unfortunately, today our soci­Barrington man was reportedly America -one which my origi­action and interest. In its sepa­close friend's murder. ety is characterized by a cynical shot twice in the chest last nal creed neglected to encom­rate being of existence, the Lost in the shuffie of another and self-absorbed generation of night as he tried to defend him­pass. individual moves from instinct 50,000 victims of violent gun nonvoters. Rather than partici­self from a petty thief. Dave While statistics rendered inef­to reason, and to that freedom death per year, my friend's pating in civic activities, citi­Shotkowski, called "Shot" by his fective the Democratic policy of which reasoned acts of the will anonymity was striking. To the zens today harness themselves friends, is survived by his wife spending millions on social pro­provide. news anchor and to just about inside their houses, remaining and baby daughter ..." grams, I believed that a number Hence, having the capacity to anyone else watching, Shot was ignorant of and unaccountable 
'Slicing away at the deepest of Republicans were off-base as perceive and the ability to meet desensitized news-worthy of to their children's behavior. layers of my being and sinking well in their advocation of social accountability or obliga­little more than a click to the Hence, I can only conclude me in a petrified fountain of treating the symptoms (prison tion, these reasoned acts of the next station. To me, however, that if Americans took it upon thought and confusion, each construction) rather than the ideal American citizen ought to he and those 50,000 victims themselves to be individually spoken word intensified the causes. Hence, I conjured up bestow the corresponding sense suddenly had face, name, and interested in the issue of vio­emptiness of my soul. A life was my own comprehensive solu­of community that is essential identity. I took individual inter­lence and to act more responsi­lost for ... for what? For a wal­tion: to the assembly of all humanity: est. bly, than perhaps violence let? For nothing. Now, only "While reforming the criminal the principle of "we" embodied In America, the entity of the could be plausibly reduced. two days after the fact, I write justice system to punish most in the "anybody" of those in individual "citizen" implicates a However, without action at with little perspective; rather, severely our nation's violent need. In this respect, our free­mutually-dependent relation­the individual level, and with­my emotions guide my words. criminals (as opposed to the dom ""to act" and "to have ship between the government out a personal dimension, any 
Years ago, Shot had directed white-collar cocaine addict), the interest" actually renders us and its constituents. The adopted Federal policy will con­my maiden voyage into the art U.S. must simultaneously accountable to our actions and government bestows such pro­tinue to be rendered futile. And ... of pitching; his relentless pur­increase prison construction to to be interested. tected freedoms as freedom of just as my friend's wife and suit of a major league career eliminate the bad influence on As I clicked and clicked and speech, religion, assembly, baby daughter now find them­countless times was an object of our streets, (only then) empow­clicked, and as I extended my press, bearing arms, (freedom selves without a husband or my own observation and re­ering the community to educate finger to turn off the television, of interest) etc. father, so too will many families flection as I, too, pursued my its youth with social programs. what stopped me? Shot's face At the same time, the ideal find themselves without a loved dreams. This comrade of mine's Prison construction does not staring right back at me, proba­citizen ought to actively recip­one. advice had been the wings on end violence; neither do social bly. Sensationalized reporting rocate attention by means of DAVID PAUL WRIDE which I had soared every programs curb it. However, of sex, drugs, and violence was engagement in political action Morrissey Hall moment spent on the mound. each can be mutually and reci­no longer some obscure fanta­and participation-without Freshman lie was my mentor and coach. procally drawn from to plausi-syland. Rather, it was up close which, the government cannot 
I 
L 


page 20 Wednesday, May 3, 1995
VIEWPOINT 
Ready or not, tuition rises 
It's becoming a Notre Dame tradition, kind of like ways to find the extra money. I would love to see the canceled AnTostal concerts and censored Bookstore University put on a bake sale to raise funds. Basketball team names. Better yet, they could try what my local Boys & Girls 
University President Reverend Edward "Monk" Clubs do for fundraising. They get nine local celebri­Malloy recently sent a letter to all Notre Dame parents ties to campaign for votes (at a dollar per vote), and explaining why the University needs more money to do the three who raise the most cash get to kiss a pig dur­the same job it did last year. ing intermission of a Tampa Bay Lightning game. 
As of this writing, the total cost of a year of Notre Nothing personal, but I'm sure the students would Dame education is about $22,340. ================cough up serious amounts of dough 
This represents a 5. 9 percent to see certain VIPs pucker up to a increase over the last year. hog. (When you get home this summer, PaUI To be fair, Reverend Malloy's let-
ask your parents to show you the ter does list noble and worthwhile they get from the University, reasons for the tuition boost, includ­and you'll see what I mean.) ing the development of "cutting-
Pearson 
This wouldn't be so bad, except edge technology" and "a constant that over the same time period, enhancement of community life." the amount of money the However, what Reverend Malloy University commits to financial and the Board of Trustees may be aid rose only 4 percent. This overlooking is that every time means that Mom and Dad will be chipping in more tuition goes up, it gives parents of high school seniors money this year to give their children a year of the yet another reason to look at schools other than Notre Notre Dame experience. Dame, ones that are delivering high-quality education 
Reverend Malloy insists in his letter that the increase at a lower price. In trying to build the best college on is much less than in years past. However, it is still an the earth, the Trustees need to be careful that they increase, and parents probably find little solace in the don't end up with the most expensive one. fact that it's not as big as it could have been. It would be a shame for my alma mater to stop 
One has to wonder where all that extra money will attracting the best and the brightest youngsters avail­come from. Alumni contributions already are at an able because their parents don't happen to be CEOs. all-time high. Many parents already need to take out Paul Pearson '93 is a former Observer news writer personal loans and second mortgages to pay for their who currently works for a trilingual newspaper in children's education. Tampa, Florida. He can be reached through e-mail at 
Maybe the University will follow the lead of Catholic "paulp 7 4115@aol. com" elementary and high schools across the country to find 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Fatal fanaticism makes history 
Dear Editor: end of such ideological blow up a day care center 
It is time for every person at conditioning is fanaticism, protest our involvement in this university, as well as which has become not a U.N. peacekeeping efforts, or every responsible American, fringe factor but a major something like that. to repudiate with absolute presence in our culture. They But remember, there were firmness the political ideology must be rooted out, given no many Germans in the Weimar that led to last week's horror. comfort, and expunged from Republic who could never Don't let any apologist for the our states. have imagined themselves NRA-funded radio show tell But the real problem is the sending millions of Jews to you that the bombing which mass base of milder but dan­their deaths: yet their killed over two-hundred peo­gerously deceived attitudes approval of racist bigotry and ple in the Federal Building in produce by twenty years of economic ignorance were Oklahoma City was a random New Right propaganda telling what ultimately made Hitler's result of one crazed lunatic us that all federal programs rise possible. who got his hands on some are bad. The real danger is People imagine that nothing fertilizer. that tears and the pictures like that could happen in 
This heinous outrage could from Oklahoma will come and America. And perhaps it is not have happened without go, while this mass attitude true that precisely what hap­the rise of the kinds of fascist remains unmoved, certain pened in Germany in the gun cults who conditioned the that it had nothing to do with early 1930s could not recur bombers to believe the para­such violence. here and now. but who know noid millenialist libertarian The time has come to stop what horrors we might be trash they take for sacred near to beginning in the doctrine, and those groups future of American history. could never have arisen with­'panaticism has Guerrilla wars between the 
Celebrating ND spirit

out the massive effort made government and millennia!
become not a 

in the last twenty years by the fanatics conceived that the 
Dear Editor: Nietzschian intelligentsia of fringe factor but a year 2000 is Judgment Day, I am writing to announce that this year's recipients of the Hipp­the New Right, starting with major presence in our of violent conflict between Beeler Freshmen Memorial Scholarship are Jean Kenol from Sorin Hall 
the Heritage Foundation, to rotting urban centers and
culture.' and Amie Thompson from Pasquerilla West. 
indoctrinate our people with suburban paradises, or total As upperclassmen and faculty will remember, Colleen Hipp and the belief that the federal gov­arguing with people who breakdown of cr~al justice Meghan Beeler, two members of the Notre Dame women's swim team, ernment in general is a bad defend the right to semiau­when more than· half of boys were killed on January 24, 1992 when the team bus, returning from a thing, that all traces in gener­tomatic weapons and states between 15 and 30 are in meet in Evanston, overturned near campus.
al are theft, that any require­rights and the end of income prison, or programs against In an attempt to help relieve the pain of this tragedy and to honor the ment of sacrifice for the pub­tax. The time has come to immigrant populations, of lives of these two freshmen, the student body has established an lic good is a burden of free­start pressing on them state nullification of federal endowment in both their names. The Hipp-Beeler Freshmen Memorial 
dom. instead their moral responsi­authority and raging wars Scholarship was established in memory of Colleen and Meghan with 
There are no words to bility not to argue in extremes that destroy the world econo­the intent to memorialize the lives of all student who pass away during express the extremity of over­and vague generalities, like my while we refuse to lift a their years af1he University. 
simplification in such non­"big government." finger to get involved? 
Students are nominated for the award by their Freshman Writing sense. but, after twenty years These phrases are no One thing is certain: the Program instructors, who choose each candidate on the basis of his or of building up the ideology, longer just stupid --they have ignorance of New Right catch­her character: an ability to clearly communicate his or her ideas, an with careful effort to associ­become reprehensible. This alls and bashing the federal ability to accept and synthesize the criticism of others, a displayedate it with virtues of self­is not to say nothing is wrong government just because it is sense of self-confidence, and an embodiment of the Notre Dame spirit. 

reliance and faith that with out federal budget and federal should no longer be These candidates are students who -through a commitment to a Americans value, too many of our social policies in this tolerated in our community, discipline -exemplify the work of Meghan and Colleen toward a 
our fellow citizens have suc­nation. our television talk show. our greater vision of one's self. Recipients are then selected from inter­
cumbed. But each of us should press radio and our papers. 
views of those candidates who show fmancial need. 

Oversimplification on this our neighbors and our friends A legal right to free speech This scholarship is unique because it is the first and only student-ini­level is so blatantly nonsensi­to make their complaints spe­is no excuse for moral negli­tiated, student-coordinated and student-funded scholarship at the 
,.. cal that it can only be spread cific: for to imply that the gence, and we should not any University of Notre Dame. The Hipp-Beeler Freshmen Memorial by implicit appeals to people's whole problem is that there is longer coddle people whose 
Scholarship has already been awarded to two members of the Class ofracial hostilities, fears for taxation at all, or that the fed­ignorant know-nothing bile 1996; Lou Vricella and Dave Brower, both of Keenan Hall. The schol­economic security and vices eral government exists at all, leads to federicide. Hundreds arship will be awarded each spring semester to two freshmen as a ges­such as selfishness. or has any social programs, is of thousands of Union soldiers ture of support and remembrance, originated by the friends and class­

The myths the New Right to contribute to delusions that died on the bloody fields of mates of Meghan and Colleen. 
have spread are not political will eventually cause Gettysburg to bring us out of Again, I would like to congratulate and recognize Jean and Amie onphilosophies but ideologies, upheavals that will make such evil. Add to their glori­their selection to receive this great honor. 
which control people's views Oklahoma seem minor. ous names two-hundred more 
MICHELLE NASSER 

by using emotional triggers Obviously that does not who died April19, 1995. 
ANGIEAUTH

rather than through justifica­mean that your roommate JOHN DAVENPORT 
Coordinators 

tion by reason. The inevitable would fmd it in themselves to Graduate Student 
Hipp-Beeler Freshmen Memorial Scholarship 



______________! 
ACCENT 
Wednesday, May 3, 1995 
The Observer/Cynthia Exconde 
South Bend's new coffeehouse Cap n' Gino's is on the brink of its first summer in town minus the college scene. 


"Business does decline a pretty good amount in the summertime. But this is almost a good thing for the restaurant because we get a lot of things done, especially con­cerning maintenance, that we wouldn't be able to get to other­wise," said Russ Mehler, a man­ager at Papa John's who has experienced the summer months. 
It seems that although school is not in-session, the campuses still hold many activities that con­tribute to these businesses. Papa John's deals with the two cam­puses during the summer, though in a different context than the usual late-night munchies that hit all students at one point or anoth­er during the school year. 
"We still deal a lot with the campuses throughout the summer months. The sports camps and conferences that meet provide us with a lot of business," Mehler said. 
So it seems that we, as students, may not be as indispensable to South Bend as we may have fool­ishly thought. Though the cam­puses will empty and students will leave the city behind, South Bend will not be suspended in time only to restart itself in late August. Life in the Bend wU: continue on until the students return and fresh notebooks are bought in the fall. 
But don't be discouraged by the news that South Bend can carry on without us; we will be missed. "As soon as fall 'rolls around and the students come back, it will all be new and exciting again," Thomas said. 
So, as you enjoy your respective summers, just keep the comfort­ing thought in the back of your mind that though life goes on, South Bend is right here, waiting for the sound of student laughter, the roar of football Saturdays, and the impending chug of U­Hauls approaching in the dis­tance. 
South Bend survives summer without students 
By ANGIE KELVER 
Saim Mary's Accent Editor 
l1 
his week, as the academic year winds down, U-Hauls will frequent the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses and packing peanuts will litter the dormitory hallways. Stressed-out students will complete their finals, give one last hurrah and then make tracks out of town to begin their summers. 
But after the last U-Haul pulls out of the parking lot and all that remains of schoolwork is the lonely pieces of notebook paper blowing across the quad, the city of South Bend still remains. Contrary to popular belief, life in the Bend does goes on after school lets out for the summer. But frankly, how, and to what extent? 
Area businesses, even the ones that cater mostly to students, still have a business to run in the summer months. So the problem is obvious: what do they do in the summertime in order to keep business alive? Most businesses do cite a decline in customers when the students leave, but the general consensus is that they will survive, as they have in the years past. 
Kathy, a bartender at the Linebacker Inn, which enjoys a large student following during the academic year, stated, "We become just a local neighborhood bar when the students are not here. We depend on the locals in the summertime to earry us through." 
There is also an influx of new students, South Bend natives from other colleges who come home for the summer, and also students who are taking summer school courses at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
This coneern of getting through the summer is also present at Powertan, which figures students make up about half of the tanning center's business. Powertan also faces another facet to the prob­lem that summertime presents for these businesses. Though hard to believe, the sun does shine in South Bend, and, as expected, this phenomena does cut into the tanning center's dientele. 
Kevin Gilsbach, the general manager at Powertan, is not especially worried about the departure of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community, or even the impending threat of sunshine in the area. Like those at the Linebacker, Gilsbach said, "We have a constant cycle of students. When some leave, others arrive." It also seems that there is still a large demand for tanning beds in the summertime as well. 

"Since the sun is so harmful, people still rely on tanning beds," he added. 
Despite their confidence, many of these local business do offer specials in the summertime in order to entice customers and increase business. The recently­opened Cap n' Cino's coffeehouse has yet to see a summer in South Bend, but it is already anticipat­ing the departure of the students. 
Rebecca Thomas, an employee at the coffeehouse, does say that the students will be missed by this fledgling business. "We won't lose that much business per se, but we will lose some of the 'bet­ter' crowd. It's hard to get a good collective age group in here where everyone bonds well and the mood is mellow." 
Cap n' Cino's is already plan­ning ways of keeping a steady clientele. Some of their bigger crowd-catchers include the nights they bring bands in and the drum circle that occurs every Thursday night. Such is the case at Powertan as well. Summer spe­cials will be implemented in order to keep business steady. 
Gilsbach stated, "We're going to have a lot of special deals this summer. We will be raffling off trips to places such as the Bahamas, the Caribbean and Las Vegas." He also discussed the possibility that Powertan will be lowering its prices for the sum­mer months. 
At Papa John's, pizza central for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, there is a sharp decline in business during the summer months. But for the pizza deliv­ery service, this break in business is a welcome respite from the fre­netic business that occurs during the school year. 
page 21 
• ACCENT ASKS ••• 
What are you doing this summer? 

"This summer I will be traveling to Guatemala for biological research study." 
Kelly Dunn Sophomore LeMans Hall 
"I am going to be a counselor at a day camp for disabled children in Albeq.uerque, New Mexico." 
Larry Chacon Junior Off-Campus 


"I am traveling to the French Open and Wimbledon, working as a runner for NBC Sports." 
Tim Hipp Senior Flanner Hall 
"I will be involved in a new program, teaching English in Estonia for six weeks." 
Molly Peeney Senior Knott Hall 

... 

,.--~~~~--, "This summer I will be waitressing at the Chautauqua lnsitute for the Arts in New York." 
Stephanie Wilberding Sophomore Lemans Hall 
"Nothing. I have no job. I'm using this poll to send a message: Please hire me!" 
Katie Wheeler Junior Lemans Hall 

L_______;..,__, 

-
~edne.da~!Jay~9~
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Classifieds 
page 22 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS 

Lost:  Please help me, I am desperate  OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered  I need two extra graduation tickets  Papers Typed  
NOTICES  One black "GAP" jacket at Jazzmanslast Thursday.  for extra graduation tickets for my Grandparents! Will pay good $$1  at $85,900. First floor location. Finished basement with full lavato­ for my brothers. If you can help me out call Jose@ 4-1661  ONLY $1/PG OS Kathleen 4-1359  
If found please call  Call Jose' at 4-3564.  ry. Two bedrooms and two baths on  
J U N 0 R S  Tony #1874  ground level. Lease back to owner  I need Grad Tickets  TALBOTS SHOP TALBOTS  
Need person to ride with me on  through May, 1995. Call  Jack X3588  graduation.mother's day.weddings  
U SUBMIT PRINTED COPY OF RESUME AND DISK  WANTED  route to Omaha, NE. Will leave May 12@ noon. Will have room  (616)946-0700.  I Need GRADUATION TICKETS  new career.no.east of mail on cleveland rd. we ship too. tell 'm lind­ 
N TO CAREER & PLACE­ for some stuff. Please call Rachaei  very cool LOFT for sale X2533  call ED @ X4204  say sent u  
MENT SERVICES FOR  AA CRUISE SHIPS HIRING! EARN  #4667.  
RESUME BOOKS NOW!  BIG$$$+ FREE WORLD TRAVEL  Painted loft with shelves 4salel  Irish Grandparents need tickets for  STUDENTS: BOYCOTI  
(CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII,  SENIORS: Living in Chicago next  x3806  graduation. Please call carolyn at  CASTLE POINT APTS  
0 DEADLINE: BEFORE YOU  ETC.) SUMMER/PERMANENT, NO  fall? Looking for roommate(s)?  271-7895.  Don't get ripped off like I didll  
LEAVE CAMPUS IN MAY.  EXPER. NEC. GUIDE. (919)929­ Call Tamara Lyzinski 282-1475 or  EPSON LX-810 printer. Used for  
R  4398 ext. C 1082  Carl Nicpon 4-1206.  1sem. Make offer. Call Janine- Help-We need graduation tix. Will  Two things the guy in the Red Hat  
1412  do ANYTHING for them-you name  is tired of:  
s  COUNSELORS WANTED for Kwiwanis Twin Lakes Camp located  FOR RENT  89 red Nissan Sentra. Only 44,000  it! Call John or Scott at 277-5720 and leave a message.  1) The way Ron srneils 2) Ron  
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@  in Plymounth, Ind. This is a sum­ miles, Great Condition, Must see.  See ya next year???  
@  mer camp for physically and men­ LIVE IN A GOOD AREA FUR­ $4000 OBO. Call 273 8428  HELP! Need 1 or 2 tickets to  
FREE PIZZA!! FREE MAS­ tally handicapped children and  NISHED HOMES NORTH OF NO  graduation. Please Call Wayne  to: Blondie, Curly, &T,  
SAGESII  young adults. Most campers are  IDEAL FOR 3-7 PEOPLE 2773097  89 red Nlssan Sentra. Only 44,000  @634-4325$  Let me tell you that this was a most  
TONS OF OTHER FREE FOODIIIII  age 7 thru 21, but we have lifted the  Miles, Great Condition. Must See  fun year. Just watch out for unher­ 
Balloon stomping, darts, punching bags, pillow fighting, finger painting,  age limit. The campers are from the Chicago metro area and from all  2 BDRM house $520/mo. + util. 624 Park (Historic District)  $4000 OBO. Call 273 8428  PERSONAL  alded water gun ambushes next year... I have allies, you know.  
basketball, and lots of other random  over the state of Indiana. We want  Grad. Students pref. 232-6079  --VW---JETTA GLI  -winx & Iettie, one and the same  
stuff...Come to SUB's final exam  you to have an interest in working  16V---VW-­ 000 The Copy Shop 000  
stress reliever on Sun.• May 7th  with disabled children. The camp  FURNISHED ROOM, AIR,  •1990 •spotless, no rust owhite  LaFortune Student Center  
from 9pm-12am in the LaFun  sessions run from June 11 to  KITCHEN, PHONE, 3 MIN. N. OF  osunroof •manual onew sport tires  WE'RE OPEN EARlY, LATE,  Bai-Ju's Noodle House  
Ballroom.  August16 with orientation the week  CAMPUS. 272.0615.  •looks and runs like new •$9500  & WEEKENDS FOR YOUR  
prior . We provide room and board  call now: 284-5261  CONVENIENCEIII  Final's Week Delivery Hours •  
FREE FOOD, REAL MASSEUSEII  pius $1,000.00. If interested please  @#@#@#@#@#@  Phone 631-COPY  
call the camp's winter office 312­ Staying for summer school?  LOFT4SALEII  4:30PM-12:30 PM  
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@  767-CAMP  Sublease our apartment at Turtle  in excellent condition  the falcon cannot hear the falcon­ 
@  Creek this summer. Call x2703.  Call x3831  er...  
Attention summer school students!  Ask for Wanda.  May 7 to May 11  
Looking for a responsible, fun-lov­ #@#@#@#@#@#  90 white Geo Prizm. AC, automatic,  ADOPTION -A LOVING CHOICE  
ATTENTION SENIORS who are  ing student to babysit my 2 children.  66,000 miles. Great Condition.  Pediatrician and pediatric nurse  
planning to VOLUNTEER next  ages 5&7, 2-3 afternoons per week  Furnished, 2-bdrm home. 1013  Must see. $5,000 OBO. Must sell  happily married for seven years are  Try Our Noodles II  
year-Come sign up at the esc to  2-6pm in my Granger home. Please  Cedar St. $450/mo. + utilities.  in a few days. Call 273-6051  hoping to share our love with a  
be recognized at the VOLUNTEER  call 277-5786.  Lease & deposit. 273-0860.  child. We love the outdoors, have  
SEND-OFF Friday, May 19th  Moving off campus? Need some  comfortable home and country lake­ 
Need a ride to Denver on May 18?  Bed & Breakfast. Can accomadate  furniture? We have it.  side cottage. Will provide secure,  To the 239 Tumors:  
$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS$$  Call Hester: 1-8556/4310  4-6. 10 min from University. Karen  FOR SALE:  loving home with full time mom.  Goodbye and have a good  
Are you going to read those things  291-9011.  Coach-$25  Counseling and allowable expens­ summer!  
a§ain? I think not. 2323-2342  Conversational English teaching  Dresser-$25  es. Cali Kim or Mike at 1-800-469­ 
Pandora's Bks NO Ave & Howard  positions available in South Korea.  DREAM HOUSE FOR SUMMER  Single size bed (new) -$45  0559  You've heard the RUMORS  
Call (616)473-2129 for information.  To sublet: spacious, fully-furnished  Desk-$45  You've smelled the FEAR  
ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAK­ English Teacher Recruiting Service.  2 bdrm near campus. 282-2246  Chair& Ottoman -Negot.  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  You've tasted the BLOOD  
FAST, 35 MIN TO N.D. SPECIAL  Call 271-0226.  LaFortune Student Center  NOW. see it for yourself ...  
"OBSERVER" RATE $50/$60,  2 cubic foot refrig ­679-4454  SUMMER JOBS  ..,J Quick turn around timelll  REDCELL2:  
PULL BREAKFAST. THE HOME­ ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  '84 Chrysler E-Ciass, Red, A/C,  v Most orders completed  Raid on Cavanaugh  
SPUN COUNTRY INN, NAPPA­ Wanted: Hosts and Hostess at  PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS  Looks Good, Runs Well, Recently  within 24 hours  to be immediately followed by  
NEE, 219-773-2034.  Tippicanoe Place Restaurant.  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  Reconditioned, Must Sell by  ..,J Free pick-up & delivery  REDCELL3  
Come fill out application-620  NEAR LAKE PLACID  May 10, $2300 or Best Offer.  to & from departments  two films by Mark Poisella  
WORD PROCESSING, TAXES,  Washington St. Ask for Rusty.  1-800-786-8373  Call289-2492-ask for Aaron.  vCaii631-COPY  with a cast of hundreds of bloody,  
GIFTS. 256-6657  handless, scantily clad mercenaries  
Summertime babysitter needed:  COTTAGE NEAR NOTRE DAME  For Sale: One-way ticket from  @#$@#$@#$@#$@#$@#$@#$  7:00 pm Friday, May 5  
J u N 0 R s  Flexible hours. Must have own  FOR GRADUATION WEEKEND.  O'Hare to Denver on 5-13. $80 or  Cushing Auditorium  
transportation.  PHONE & CABLE. 272-1968.  best offer. Call Kim at x4656  This is a special THANKYOU to all  • Ail donations go to a worthy charity  
U SUBMIT PRINTED COPY  Experience necessary.  of those people who are graduating  
OF RESUME AND DISK  Great working conditions!  FOR RENT for summer. 2 bdrms,  One-way air ticket to Boston  that have been an integral part of  
N TO CAREER & PLACE­ Call Nancy 272-7746  furnished, min. from campus.  May 13th (after finals!)  the GAY and LESBIAN community.  
MENT SERVICES FOR  $500/mo. Deposit. Serious stu­ $100/bo. x-1814 (Male name)  The work that you have done  KT!!  
RESUME BOOKS NOW!  Cultural Dance Experiences  dents. 289-1159.  whether it be on e-mail, at rallies, or  This is my last shot at a cool  
The Early Childhood Development  == GET TO NJ or NY====  at support meetings really made a  personal, so here goes:  
0 DEADLINE: BEFORE YOU  Center is looking for individuals  SUBLET OUR APARTMENT FOR  One Way Flight SB to Newark  difference.  
LEAVE CAMPUS IN MAY!  who would be interested in sharing  THE SUMMER!  ($90 or best offer-leaves 13 MAY)  Remember to Smile and Be Proud!  • "Hello, hello, is this the  
R  their knowledge of dances  2 Bedroom apt with hardwood  ==-~CALL TIM x2022 ====  Observer? Hello!"  
from different cultures with  floors, high ceilings, located 5 min  @#$@#$@#$@#$@#$@#$@#$  • "is this soda pop on the floor?"  
s  children 4 to 9 years old this sum­ from campus in quiet, historic  OPEN HOUSE SUNDAY 2-4  "No, it is ......... "  
mer during our Summer  neighborhood. $375 fully furnished.  2-0akhill Condos.  Lisa & Andrea missed the boatll  • "Mr. Allen, it is time to go to  
TRUCK BACK TO D.C.  Program (June 12-Aug. 4). If you  Call Kathy or Colleen @273-5914  3-ievels wllower walkout, 3 BAS,  Fellow Seniors-We need a booze  bed! No more Cokei"  
TRUCK BACK TO D.C.  would be interested in teaching  3 Baths -$99.900  cruise ticket and fast! X2514-Will  • II is movie time, but who will  
Drop-off-Thursday, May 11 &  these dances, please contact  rent room.summer.upstairs alone  2 Brs. 2 Baths, spiral staircase  pay a handsome ransom!!  go into THE ROOM!  
Friday, May 12 12PM-4PM  Thayer Kramer, Program Director,  full bath.2 mi no/nd.2n.7263.$265  & garage -$78,500  
CALL Rob Flynn at X1745  631-3344.  Each unit includes: fireplace,  I ned a ride to EASTERN MASS  Have a good one, KTII I'll see you  
lot questions· and prices.  ?*?*?*?*?*?*?*?*?*?  appliances, pool & clubhouse  after graduation. Will split  in a few weeks!!  
ORIGAMI  Coldwell Banker-277-8000  gas/tolls/etc. Please call soon.  
London Program graduates: recep­ The Early Childhood Development  BIG EARL  Ruth Ann Smith-235-3250  Tom x1712  
tion and tea Sat. May 20, 2-4pm  Center is looking for an individual  Thank you.  food, you want it, they got it.  
LaFortune Ballroom  who would be interested in teaching  AT  86 HONDA PRELUDE Sl  
origami to 7 to 9 year old  red 5spd  Misa Jenn Court Shan, Since Nov.  i did not toss the turtle. she did.  
Philly baggage truck loads soonlll  children during our Summer  CLUB23  Must Sell 4-2475  5 we have had our ups downs and  
Details call Dan @2738699  Program (June 12-Aug. 4). If you  Our last show before  everything in between. One last  Don't Forget Sophomores ...  
Call now, space limited  know origami and would be  Senior WEEK  Double bed and night stand-$125  toast to Friendship. A Citron night.  
interested, please contact Thayer  Desk-$50  Cheers! Luv. Rebecca  The CLASS SERVICE PROJECT  
ILOST&FOUNDI  Kramer, Program Director, 631-3344.  ?*?*?*?*?*?*?*?*?*?*?  Or Best Offer!! Call Brendan at 272-2376  Hey you Stanford boys of 226, we  at the NE Neighborhood is going strong but can always use new vol­ 
2 bedrooms in quiet neighbour­ were wondering when we could  unteers. Its a lot of fun -give it a try.  
LOST: Vivitar AF 200 35 mm cam­ Will pay$45 for your microwave  hood, close to campus. Use of  Water bed + attached dresser­ plan your next party? Just let us  We leave at 2:30pm and  
era at an apartment on Lance Court  x2790  kitchen & laundry facilities. Summer  $125  know, we'll do the invites.  3:30pm from Main Circle every  
or vicinity during the Shadowlands  and fall school year. Rent is $250  Double bed-$15Q-comes with  Love, Joeile and Ellen  Wednesday and Friday, and return  
cast party on Fri. April 21. Name  ROOMMATE WANTEDII  per month. Call Paul at 232-2794:'  futon couch  P.S. We will always be superior in  at 4:30. Call Brian x1058.  
and home address on back.  To Share Apartment or House  entertainment center-$40  mind and spiritllllllll!  
Sentimental value; no questions  w/ NO 1st yr. Law Stud. next yr.  College Park Condo for rent this  matching couch and chair-$20  J u N 0 R  
asked if returned.  GUARANTEED GOOD TIME. Call  summer. Call271-7895.  sheives-$15  Driving to NJ or NY?  s  
REWARD. call Sue x1522  Gene@ x4579 or (216) 966-2053  nightstand-$15  Take me! (no stuff, just me)  
after 5/21.  MOVING TO CHICAGO?  Or best offer on any item  I'll pay you-Kristen 2339  U SUBMIT PRINTED COPY  
Silver and Brass Bracelet between  Apt. in Lincoln Park. Share rent  Call277-6475  OF RESUME AND DISK  
Debart and NOH. Not worth a lot,  ################  with '94 NO alum. 5 min. to  TODAY IS THE LAST REGULAR  N TO CAREER & PLACE­ 
just got it in Mexico, so I want it  Downtown.  85 white VW Golf. Great condition  ISSUE OF THE OBSERVER.  MENT SERVICES FOR  
back! If found, call Janina -1412  BASS PLAYER  Washer/Dryer. Fireplace.  and only 68,000 miles. Must see. '•..,  THERE WILL BE A SENIOR ISSUE  RESUME BOOKS NOW!  
Looking for a bass player  Call after 6:00 pm  $1200 OBO.  ON FRI., MAY 19. YOU CAN PUT  
Lost at PigTostal: a pair of gold­ for next year, call  (312) 477-5862  Cali 272-9243  ADS IN FOR THAT ISSUE ANY  0 DEADLINE: BEFORE YOU  
rimmed glasses. Now I'm blind!  Dave 277-6898.  DAY FROM 8 AM TO 3 PM UNTIL  LEAVE CAMPUS IN MAY.  
..  If found, please call x1643 Thanks  SUMMER INTERNSHIPS: VEC­ Room for rent -Summer Session ­Winding Brook $325/mo. w/d &  85 white VW Golf. Great conditions and only 68000 miles .  THURS., MAY 18.  R  
TOR INTERNATIONAL-Accepting  kitchen priveleges 255-9005  Must see. $1200 OBO 272-9243  GEORGE & THE FREEKS  s  
LbST: multi-Colored ankle bracelet;  applications for summer openings  Wed. 5/3 @9pm at CSC. Celebrate  
last seen in front of nieuwland.  at 285 locations across the U.S. All  Wanted: 2 people to sublet an  IN LINE SKATES Never been  end of year and support 2 seniors  
please call x26441  majors, Freshman-Senior.  incredible apartment near down­ used. Men's size 9. "Skate Attack"  volunteering in Honduras next year.  KEENAN FOUR MAN SCRAMBLE  
Scholarships available (6 previous  town for the summer. We  by Ultra Wheels. $50 obo  $2 please!  Thurs. May 4 @ 9:00am. 4 person  
FOUND: Men's wristwatch with  scholarships awarded to Notre  cou!d also use a fourth room..aate  STRYKER PRECISION GOLD  teams, $8.50 I golfer. *PRIZES*:  
readily identifiable wristband found  Dame students.) For information  for the 1995-96 academic year.  GOLF CLUBS 2 years old.  1st, 2nd, 3rd; long drive. closest to  
bet. Siegried and Knott. Call Matt  contact South Bend office at 282­ Call Ryan or Chad at634-1036  Full set [1,3,5 metalwoods; 3-SW;  PLEASE HELP!II  pin. Cali Todd x3402.  
x3315to claim.  2357  for details.  putter] $230 obo Cali x5456  
I NEED A RIDE TO SOUTHERN  T-Bone Was Here!! So look out  
Found: Gold Pin/Broach near Stepan Hall and the Rad Lab. Call Peter x1-7850.  Need 1 graduation ticket x4200 **********'*WANTED*************"'**  L..,___F_O_R_S_AL_E_---11  I TICKETS  NY, NORTHERN NJ (West Point, Poughkeepsie, Mahwah, NYC) after finals WED 5/10 through 5/21 - because she will steal your quarters to do her laundry!  
I need a Mountain bike in good con­ For Sale  need 1 graduation ticket-call chris  whenever you can. Storing most  T-Bone is hot and sexy!!! Get in line  
FOUND BY STEPAN COURTS­ dition.  Cobra3 Band  x1216  stuff ­little baggage and a guaran­ before the semester ends. Tickets  
MAN'S CLASS RING. CALL CHRIS  Call Mike at X4100  Radar Detector $50  tee of GREAT conversation, as well  are going fast to ride the T -Bone  
...  277-5717 & IDENTIFY.  277-9747  I need graduation tickets. Please  as$. Please, PRETTY PLEASE,  express!!!  
call Lisa at 277-07 40  CALL BRIAN AT x1 058.  
LOST: Camera ... last seen Flanner  HOMES FOR RENT  FOR SALE: '84 VW JETIA GLI  C'mon everybgdY. dothe Marcotte.  
Lobby, April22. Call Felicia  NEAR CAMPUS  RED; good condition -$2000 obo  I need Graduation tickets.  THANK YOU VERY MUCH.  
Johnson 4-2783.  232-2595  Call Jennie @ 272-01 08  Please call Curtis at282-2197  see CLASSIFIEDS/: page 24  


Wednesday, May 3, 1995 
Courtney Tennis Center (north of the Joyce Center) Fri., Sat., Sun. •May 5,6,7 FRIDAY, MAY 5 ----­10 a.m.: Michigan vs. Northwestern 1p.m.: Minnesota vs. Ball State 
SATURDAY, MAY 6 ----­
10 a.m.: Mississippi vs. Michigan or N'westem 1p.m.: Notre Dame vs. Minnesota or Ball St. 
SUNDAY, MAY 7 
1p.m.: FINALS 
.... 

~----------------------------------------------------~------------------~------------~--------------------~ --------­
page 24 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, May 3, 1995 
Classifieds 


continued from page 22 
NCAA-bound Notre Dame to battle Buckeyes 
Happy Birthday to the two freaks who I 
have the pleasure of living with. 
SENIORS: I am looking for Female, graduating seniors who will be working in New York City next year. If you need a roommate call Merrie X1413 
Hey Fall 1993 Londoners: come to Mishawaka Brewery during senior week­Tuesday May 16 at 9:30pm (we have a room rented!) 
you tell 'em wyatt earp's coming. 
SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS 
Go to the DUNES on Monday of Senior Weeki 
HEY SENIORSI!I If you are doing service next year, come to the esc to sign-up for the VOLUNTEER SEND-OFF, to be held SAT .• MAY 20, at tOam in Washington Hall (not May 19 as printed earlier). HEY SENIORSII! 
MEGHANI! I Congrats on Bookstore and Happy Birthday!! Have a groovy day, hussll 
······················· 
1st die dee-dee da? 
I guess that's a Kentucky thing tool We have just bonded so much this year, and now we've come to the last classified. 
I wanna, I wanna be like Jay. Like Jay. If I could be Jay Will. 
Are you free over study days? Because Rafael Gonzalez is desperately lonely and needs a date. Call him if you are interest­ed. His number is x1672. Are you really . free? Then call Brian at 273-3115. He's sexy. 
Green carpets-are pretty. 
"I hate sharing and being nice to people." -Erin Kelleher, Notre Dame's finest RA. 
G-bear, I love you. -Maureen 
By DAVE TREACY 
Sports Wrirer 
Notre Dame will be in the 1995 NCAA tournament. This Saturday's game in Columbus, Ohio will only help to determine the seeding. 
The upcoming game against the Ohio State Buckeyes gives the Irish a great opportunity to hone their skills for the upcom­ing tournament.. The Buckeyes, a strong defensive team without much offensive threats, are 5-8 on the year, and haven't won a game against a conference opponent. Notre Dame has already sewn up the Great VVestern Lacrosse League bid, and is presently ranked 13th in the country. 
"This is not their best team. They play people tough, espe­cially their longsticks, and have kept themselves in games," said coach Kevin Corrigan. "Their problems are at the offensive end. If they had any kind of an offense, they could easily be 8­5." 
Due to Notre Dame's outstanding defense and net play, the weak Buckeye offense stands little chance of making a surpnsmg run. The Irish defense must simply play at their consistently high level, and leave the rest to the offense. 
The Irish attack has been 
very strong for the past few 
games. They have been able to 
take advantage of their scoring 
opportunities due to better 

shooting and excellent ball 
movement. 

"It's great that we're able to 
diversify our attack. Guys like 
(VVill) DeRiso and (Tim) 
Kearney are stepping it up, and 
it's great to get their assists 
from the crease. More offen­
sive threats makes us that 
much harder to play. And our 
first midfield has been excel­
lent," Corrigan added. 

The Irish can't be sure of 
their opening round opponent 
until next week. If they do well 
in the Ohio State game, they 
could be ranked as high as 
tenth in the tourJl'ament. There 
is a chance that they could play 
some old opponents in the first 
or second rounds, such as 
North Carolina or Princeton. 
Notre Dame has two aces in the hole when the tournament rolls around. One arrived on ·· the scene last fall, the other has been here for four or five years. 
The play in the crease by Alex 
Cade has been phenomenal 
throughout the season. As a 
freshman, Cade has come into 
the program and made a 
tremendous impact to shore up 
an already strong defensive 
squad. Thus, having a rookie 
in the cage is not a liability for 
Notre Dame in the NCAA tour­
nament. 

''I'm not worried about Alex. 
First off, he's surrounded by 
seniors (on defense). Secondly, 
he is just a tough competitor. 
He gets mad in practice if 
someone scores on him," said Corrigan. 
The senior class is the other major advantage for Notre Dame. 
"These guys have been to the tournament for four years now. In the country, only four other schools can say that," Corrigan added. 
The class of 1995 has brought a program that was never ranked before to a top 15 pro­gram. They also have a chance to crack the top ten for the first time this year. 
Included in this class are two fifth-year seniors, middie VVill Sutton and attackman Randy Colley. 
The two of them have led the Irish offense all season. Colley has claimed three offensive titles in his career, including the career assist record this season. Sutton leads the pre­sent squad in career ground balls, and his vocal play on and off the field have left their mark . on the team. 
All-American defenseman Mike Iorio heads a list of senior defenders who have started on defense for three years now. 
Co-captain Billy Gallagher and Chris Bury have built themselves into an iron curtain for Irish opponents' offenses. The strength off this group also lies in the consistently solid play of Pete Snyder and Todd Bialus. 
The Notre Dame midfield has taken tremendous strides in the last four years. Along with Sutton, middies Marc Pasquale, Kevin Lynyak, and Jason Pett have combined powerful offen­sive strength and defensive pressure for the Irish through­out their careers. 


You could rent any truck. Then again, you could've gone to any school. 
--"':'-­

... 
Tllt·n· <lr<' !lltJUS<l!ltb of colleges out there. Fortunately, you ruadc a good clroicc. Now nrake tlw riglrt 1·lwin· when you leave. Hent a truck from Hyder. 
l{yd1~r 111akcs yuur lllovc easy. Willt a corlV(;nicnl toll-free reservation llUildH'r. Clean, n~liahlc 'cl1ides that arc easy to load and drive. Fast processing lo speed up chcck-i11 and check-out. And a 1'1-llour Hoadsidc t\ssistanrc Line for ll1~lp along the way. 
J>Jus. your Student ID entitles you Lo spedal savin~s! So put your t•dtw<llioll to good Wit' <111d t·<~ll 1-HOO-CO-IWI >I·: I{ (~(>7-9:U7). 
South Bend South Bend South Bend South Bend 
.... 
RTR Jack's Trailer Sales Ciras Marathon Tom's Car Care 2715 N. BendiX Dr. 51370 U S. 33 North 1914 S. Miami St. 3201 Sugar Maple Ct. 
p 

(219) 277-3550 (219) 277-9799 {219) 289-6721 (219) 288-0316 
I 
' 
L.----------------------­


Wednesday, May 3, 1995 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 25 



Arthur Andersen Welcomes the Following 1995 University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Graduates to Our Firm 
Christopher Androski 
New York Office 
Thomas Borger 
Chicago Office 

Stanley Bowman 
Chicago Office 

C. Patrick Braley 
Atlanta Office 

Donato Capobianco 
Boston Office 
Jim Carr 

New York Office 
David Clear 

New York Office 
David Crawford 
Chicago Office 
Christine DeMott 
Pittsburgh Office 
Bret Dooley 

Minneapolis Office 
Jennifer Dowd 

New York Office 
Tracy Ellis 

Chicago Office 
Nicholas Galassi 
Chicago Office 
Sarah Haiman 
Denver Office 

Michelle Hiigli 
Chicago Office 
Sarah Ireton 

Chicago Office 
Michael Jarosky 
Chicago Office 
John Jennings 
Chicago Office 
Keith Kooman 
Chicago Office 
Jason Langan 
New York Office 
Stephanie Lausier 
Chicago Office 
James Locke Washington, D. C. Office Catherine Lupo 
Chicago Office 
Erik Maier 
Atlanta Office 

Alexander Marchetti 
Chicago Office 
Ryan Martin 
Orange County Office 
Kristen Martina 
Chicago Office 
Kristen Mikolyzk 
Chicago Office 
Michael Molnar 
New York Office 
Lisa Monaco 
New York Office 
Laura Mossey 
Atlanta Office 
Sara Noe 
Chicago Office 
Mary Pelican 
Chicago Office 
Jason Pett 
Baltimore Office 
Lisa Powers 
Chicago Office 
Michael Riggs 
Chicago Office 
Ricardo Rios 
Pittsburgh Office 
Christopher Rosen 
Chicago Office 
Jeanne Schloegel 
Milwaukee Office 
Timothy Shannon 
Chicago Office 
Eric Shultz Washington, D. C. Office Kara Smith 
New York Office 
Stephen Soderling 
Chicago Office 
John Starr 
Washington, D.C. Office 
John Taliaferro Ill Washington, D. C. Office Randy Torres 
New York Office 
Dennis Verdico 
Chicago Office 
Joseph Wagner 
Baltimore Office 
Margaret Zimmerman 
Chicago Office 

dl.,. ...... . '1,
rl~ 








page 26 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, May 3, 1995 
19{ 1('ECO(j9{FII09{ Jt9{t]) JI.PP1('ECIJt1I09{ or crJ{t£ T9{1I!llT srrf4rr Jt1 119{Io/'£1(SFIY 1f'EJtL1J{ ['£9{1'£1(. 

WITH BEST WISHES, ANNIE THOMPSON,DIRECTOR 
Department o erman an Russ1an ummer Language Institute 
June 20-August 2, 1995 The Notre Dame German and Russian Summer Language Institute offers an intensive summer rogram of courses and cultural enrichment. Earn up to 9 language credits in German and 6 language credits in Russian in small, lively classes taught with imagination. The professors are experienced in offering concentrated, yet personalized instruction. Recent ND graduates benefit from a 50% reduction in tuition. 
LEARN THE LANGUAGES OF THE 90'S 

• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBAll. 
Indians blast Tigers before sparse crowd 
By HARRY ATKINS the crowd to stop, but to little Associated Press avail. In the mid-1980s, the TigersDETROIT 
closed the bleachers for six The smallest crowd to attend 
weeks. a· Tigers' home opener in 23 As Detroit was coming to bat years booed Cecil Fielder. in the sixth, a young man 
threw objects and repeatedly climbed over the rail near the ran on the field as the Indians dugout and dashed Cleveland Indians routed 
across the field and over the Detroit 11-1 Tuesday. left field screen. And man and At least 20 fans were taken 
woman both dashed onto the off the field by security. The field while Cleveland batted in crowd, announced at 39,398 
the seventh. Others followed as but probably about 5,000 less, the game wore on. was the Tigers smallest for a home opener since 1972, when 
Fans booed the introduction 31,510 attended. of Fielder and pitcher Mike Henneman, who were outspo­Before the game began, fans ken during the strike. Managerthrew magnetized schedules Sparky Anderson, who refused onto the field. They then de­to work with replacements, got 
layed the action with a barrage a mix of cheers and boos. 
Ex-Seton Hall sluggers lift BoSox 
Associated Pres.s previous times, with the two the tone right away by throw­
grand slams in the same game. ing strikes and working fast," 

NEW YORK It was the seventh time it was said Red Sox manager Kevin 
It turned into a Seton Hall done by the Red Sox. Kennedy of Eshelman, who was alumni celebration, and Eshelman (1-0). who spent 11-9 last year. Vaughn Eshelman and the last season with Class AA Jose Canseco pulled his groinBoston Red Sox were the bene­Bowie of the Orioles' organiza­while stealing second base in ficiaries. tion, allowed three hits in six the second inning and left the 
College teammates John innings, walked two and struck game, but the injury is not con­Valentin and Mo Vaughn hit out one. sidered serious. Canseco is list­grand slams an inning apart, Injuries to starters Roger ed as day-to-day.
and Eshelman won his major­Clemens and Zane Smith Valentin hit his grand slam in league debut Tuesday night as helped open the way for the third off New York starter the Red Sox defeated the New Eshelman. Sterling Hitchcock (0-1). and York Yankees 8-0. "I thought I'd be back in Vaughn hit his in the fourth off 
"We still talk about it. We'll Double-A at Bowie, Maryland," Brian Boehringer. talk about how we have he said. "It definitely makes it Valentin's homer was his first 
become important parts of the easier when you have a lineup of the season and second team here," Vaughn said. "It's behind you that you know is career grand slam, while because of the way we have going to get you some support." Vaughn's homer was his sec­developed and become good "He pitched very well, you ond this season and his third 
players that we still talk about have to take your hat off to career grand slam. it, having been together (at him. He had good command," Notes: Eshelman is the first Seton Hall).' said Yankees manager Buck Boston pitcher to win his major
The Red Sox tied a major­Showalter. league debut since Nate league record, accomplished 41 "He was outstanding. He set Minchey in Sept. 1993. 
of beach balls and toilet paper. 
Indians center fielder Kenny Lofton complained in the fifth inning after a what appeared to be a golf ball was thrown. The pubic address announcer asked 
Cleveland hit four homers, including a three-run drive by Jim Thome in the first. Manny Ramirez, Paul Sorrento and Carlos Baerga also homered for the Indians. 
!Jvi5Ly 12, 1995 

UNIVERSITY HEALTH SERVICFS DAY 
-Thursday 
Guy Lawrence & Chydeco Zydeco 
Cajun Zydeco 
5-Friday  6-Saturday  7-Sunday  
Gc:Mmori:Biisa1dh!  StrdJ,t.1lzz I:Jt  
BkJesAn.<J a s  bs  D!JnChamberlaln  
Blues  Jazz  

Tl/l'U. SIIU\\' STAIUS AT 9 Jml FUI/SAT STAIUS AT JLlJnn SdJL•LlulL' \uhJect tn C!wn.~L' Call 235-3409 
WHY IS THIS BOY SMILING?

-
ffi[?ftffJ.ffi ll0 
@[rff!cflmff!Mw~ ~C])ffi) r0a®a g 
Congratulations from Dad& FamilyII 

-
Remember that special Graduate with flowers, balloons, or gifts from 
Country norists l1 Gifts. 
We deliver to campus. 
charge by phone: (219)291 • 3937 US 31 South 

Films/ Vldeoa/ Interutlve VIdeo/ Computera/ Video DIIICBI Experienced Professors/ Dally Tutorial in state of the art lo.nlrU&Itllaboratoryl Tuition Savlna:oJ PeNOnal Attention/ Jmaa:lnatl.re Inatruetionl Lively Claasroom Atmosphere 
Cly•e• Oftered,· GE 101 Be&lnDina: German 1: 6120~·714 (3 eredite) Intensive Introduction lo German for studente with no or 
minimal background  
OE 102  Bea:lnnina: German D: 7/IS -7/19  (3 eredite)  
Continuation of GE 101  
GE 103  Bea:Innina: German m: 7/aO • 612  (3 aredite)  
Continuation of GE 102  

FulftU. ND lanlr\l&p requinoment. Taught dally 10:20 a.m. to 11!:30 p.m.• tutorial at 1:30 p.m. 
OEIHO Convenatlonal German: 6120 -612 (3 eredits) A oourae for atudente of all -with some background In German (101/101! =elementary, or equivalent.} Emphasis on conversation, speaking nuency a.nd oomprehenslon, uolng Interactive video dleoologather with aooompa.nylng textbook. Communicate effectively a.nd appropriately In a range of oomm.on situa\iona for • va.:ri.&ty of purposee. Fulftl1ll ND lanlr"aa:e requinoment. Taught T1'H 8:00p.m. to 8:30p.m. 
RU 101 Ber;lnnlna: Ru..lanl: 6120 • 7/1 (3 eredits) Intensive Introduction lo RWIIIIan for stud.ente with no or minimal background. 
RU 102 BeJrlnnlna: Ru..ian D: 7/llJ -8112 (3 eredits) Continuation of Ruaslan 101. Taught dally 10:20 a.m. to 11!:30 p.m. 
Application forms may be obtained by writing to; Summer Sohool Director 312 Main Building University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, IN 48558 
N<>TRE DAME 


~~ c~.~~!..~~=~ 
1991, 1992, and 1993 
Szechwan•Cantonese•American Chinese Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 days Banquet rooms 
r-Sunday Buffet Brunch-Every Sunday ­
avai.lable (or 
$8.95 for Adults 
up to 200 
$3.95 for Children under 10 
(219) 272-7376 • 130 Dixieway S. (US. 31 in Roseland) at Randall's Inn Suuth Bend. IN 
MADISON OYSTER BAR 
402 Ea-,r Madison Street Sm1th Bend, IN (219) 2H8-3776 APPEARING LIVE IN MAY 
Wednesday, May 3, 1995 
SAINT MARY'S ATHLETIC AWARDS1995 
SENIOR ATHLETE OF THE YEAR: 
joann Weed DIRECTOR'S AWARD: Tara Krull SCHOLAR ATHLETE: Jennifer Ferry 
VOLLEYBALL Most Valuable Player-Sara Stronczek Most Improved-Ann Lawrence toach's Award-Kelly Meyers 
SOCCER Most Valuable Player-Lisa Nichols Most Improved-Cathlytm Howe Coach's Award-Jennifer Ferry 
SWIMMING AND DIVING Most Valuable Player-Allison Smith Coach's Award-Jen Mitchell Regi Symmond's Most Inspirational-Tara Krull 
BASKETBALL Most Valuable Player-Jennie Laubenheim Most Improved-Colleen Andrews Coach's Award-Marianne Banko 
TRACK AND FIELD Most Valuable Player (Track)-Erin Melli font Most Valuable Player (Field)-Paula Kivinen Coach's Award-Joann Weed Most Improved-Julie Govorko 
SOFfBALL Impact Award-Andrea Arena Most Improved-Katie Maxbauer Team Player-Shannon Heise 
TENNIS Most Valuable Player-Robin Hrycko Most Improved-Megan Magilligan Coach's Award-Nancy Waibel 
Irish coach honored by USA Volleyball 
By BETSY BAKER 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame head volleyball coach Debbie Brown is back in the news and once again is being honored for the impact she has made on the world-of volleyball. Brown, who will enter her fifth season with the Irish this fall, was named by USA Volleyball as an All-Time Great Volleyball Player, an award that dates all the way back to 1954. 
The All-Time Great award is the highest honor awarded in the sport. of volleyball in the United States, and this year's recipients prove no excep­tion. 
Brown's fellow 1995 honoree is two-time Olympic gold medalist and the best player United States volley­ball has seen thus far, Karch Kiraly. The two will have their photos and records displayed in a permanent exhibit at the Volleyball Hall of Fame in Holyoke, Mass. 
Brown joins 51 previous winners of the award, including former team­mates Flo Hyman, Sue Woodstra, Bebbie Green, Rita Crockett and Laurel Brassey. Brown attributes much of the significance of the award to the company of excellent players she is joining. 
"I am very, very honored to receive this award," said Brown. "I have so much respect for those who have received it in the past and I feel hon­ored that the commitee feels I belong with them." 
------------------~ 
The Observer· SPORTS page 27 
• VOLLEYBALL 

'All-Time Great' Brown honored 


"There is no question that this is the biggest award I have ever received." 
Brown's playing and coaching career has done nothing but flourish since she first began playing, at age 17, on the U.S. National team on a part-time basis. Brown then led the University of Southern California to back-to-hack national championships in 1976 and '77 and a 72-1 record over those two seasons. Her 1977 team remains the only undefeated women's Division I team in the histo­ry of collegiate volleyball. 
Brown then left USC to compete on a full-time basis as captain of the national team from 1978-80. She did not get the chance to participate in the 1980 Olympics, as the United States boycotted the 80 games . 
She began her coaching career as an assistant at Arizona State in 1980 and in 1983 was appointed head coach of the Sun Devils. She coached ASU for six seasons, leading her team to the NCAA tournament in five of those, and then returned to the national team as an assistant coach for the 1988 Olympic games in Seoul, South Korea. Brown is the only col­lege coach to have played for and coached the U.S. women's Olympic volleyball team. 
In her four years with the Irish, Brown has compiled a 116-30 record with three NCAA appearances. The Irish team made it to the Sweet Sixteen last season and in the 1993 season was one game away from the Final Four. She currently serves as president of the American Volleyball Coaches Association and has previ­ously served on the U.S. Olympic Commitee's Athletes Advisory Council and on the board of directors of USA volleyball. 
Her players attest to her coaching 
The Observer/Jake Peters 
Notre Dame volleyball coach Debbie Brown, 116-30 in four years, will be honored by USA Volleyball as an "All­Time Grear on May 25. 
ability and knowledge of the game. 
"Her experience as a player, espe­cially on the national team, helps her deal with us," said junior setter Shannon Tuttle. "We value alot what she thinks of us because we know she was such a good player herself." 
Brown will be honored with the award on May 25 at the U.S. Open National Championships in Springfield, Massachusetts. 


Campus View Apartments SUMMER LEASES 
6 weeks to 3 months 
Furnished Apartments, All Utilities Covered, Central Air 
For more information Call272-1441 
~­



Roland 
New AD 
continued from page 36 

involved with Irish affairs for just over a month now, Wadsworth has had little time or reason to decorate the cubi­cle. That is, except for one Notre Dame football portrait behind the desk. 
It's not a flashy picture, but it proves the same thing that his Notre Dame Class of 1966 ring shows. Wadsworth is a Domer in every sense of the word. 
"There's kind of a romantic notion about returning to your alma mater," he said. "What really appealed about this situ­ation was that we were going to be working with outstanding people." 
Wadsworth has never strayed far from the Notre Dame fami­ly. Football has been the con­sistent bond between him and the golden dome. 
Being a member of the Irish 
football team rooted him deep 
in Irish tradition, and playing 
offensive tackle in the Canadian 
Football League made him re­
member his previous successes 
with Notre Dame. 
So it's only fitting that 
Wadsworth would be first 
approached about the athletic 
director position on the field at 
Notre Dame Stadium. 
"I was approached by Dick 
Rosenthal and we had our dis­
cussion about it at the time of 
the Florida State game here on 
campus," he said. " It was sim­
ply an inquiry into whether or 
not I'd have any further inter­
est in discussing the position." 
Obviously, the interest was 
there. On both sides. 
"Michael Wadsworth is an 
absolutely perfect guy," 
Rosenthal said. "I don't know if 
anybody has a broader or more The Observer· SPORTS 

appropriate base of experience to come in here." 
Besides playing football pro­fessionally, Wadsworth has been a practicing lawyer, a radio and television announcer, a businessman, and, since 
1989,  has  served  as  the  
Canadian  Ambassador  to  
Ireland. Not a bad resume.  

"What better credentials can a person have?" Rosenthal summarized. 
This was the general consen­sus of the Irish sports brain trust, which includes Rosenthal, executive vice-president Reverend E. William Beauchamp, C.S.C., and presi­dent Reverend Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. 
But the decision wasn't as clear cut on the side of Wadsworth. While on his six­year diplomatic stint, he was a consideration for the position of commissioner by both the National Hockey League and the Canadian Football League. He chose to be director of ath­letics at Notre Dame. 
"This to me was the top-level athletic position within North 
The

Observer 
is now accepting applications for 
Sports Photo Editor 
For information, contact Rob Finch at 631-5323 
America," Wadsworth said. "And it's a much happier kind of circumstances in which we operate within a sports admin­istrative position, as compared to the professional ranks." 
Questions have been raised about his inexperience in ath­letic administration, but most have fallen on deaf ears. Nothing but complete confi­dence in Michael Wadsworth has exuded from the present contingency. 
"He's got himself a deftful process of indoctrinization that will bring him up to speed," Rosenthal, a former banker himself, boasted. "He gets here before 8 a.m. and leaves after 6 
p.m. He takes home a briefcase full of stuff." 
As far as anyone knows, the athletic director-to-be has already taken over. The present athletic director is just guiding him through the daily chores. Choices with huge ramifica­tions, like the hiring of Dave Poulin, the new hockey coach, have already crossed Wadsworth's desk. He has had already had considerable input Wednesday, May 3, 1995 
in such matters. 
But following the legacy of Rosenthal may be difficult for anyone just taking over at Notre Dame. And while Wadsworth may have the impressive resume coming in, he will be expected to complete the present director's endeav­ors as well as create a few of his own. 
"You've got to get something done and hopefully you're going to accomplish something during the year," he said. "I don't really know where this position fits on my list of accomplishments, but that's because I haven't accomplished anything yet." 
But one thing can be assured from the Domer come home to lead the athletic department­Notre Dame won't be corrupted with any funny stuff. 
"We're entrusted, obviously, with being able to perpetuate the reputation and traditions that have developed at this uni­versity," Wadsworth pro­claimed. 
"You don't trifle with tradi­
tion." 


THE NOTRE DAME COUNCIL ON INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT CONGRATULATES ITS 1995 SUMMER INTERNS: 
AmyAmoni 
Theodore Bills 
Jeffery Boetticher 
David Buckley 
Steven Buckley 
Rebecca Calice 
......... Nicole Carlstrom Regina Rathnau 
Cristan Reali 
Michael Carroll Kelly Castellanos Michael Celtruda Laura Demmelmaier Michelle DiRe Lisa Drury Benjamin Gray Richard Rembusch Jeremy Reyes 

Anne Grimm David Hellen Mary Joel Charles Kovach Judith Kralik Maureen Larsen Sharon Lavin Lisa Schultz Jeannine Solanto Terri Ziacik 
Monica Lizarraga Timothy Maxwell Mary Massey Simon McLain Heather Matula Maciej Mrugala Natasha Mazzei Katrina Nielson Timothy McFadden Michelle Nolan Julie Mirer Melissa Pinto Amy Montgomery Jacob Rademacher Nancy Talbot Christopher Waters Andrea Topash Matthew Wingerter 

OUR INTERNS WILL BE WORKING FOR THESE FIRMS: 
ABB Management Estonian National Bank KPMG Peat Marwick Polish Univ., Lithuania Catholic University Estonian Shipping Company Manfredo Brauchle Productivity Point Citibank, Germany H.J. Heinz Market Access Sonda Citibank, Prague Hylsa National Governor's Assoc. Elecmatel Compaiiia Minera del Sur Jagiellonian University Office of the llres., Prague Tatra Bank Dvigatel Janssen Pharmaceutical, Ltd. Parnu Majanduskool US Dept. of Commerce 
Tallinn Commercial College Jefferson Smurfit Waterford Crystal 
OUR INTERNS WILL BE WORKING ACROSS THE GLOBE THIS
-' 
Bolivia Chile Czech Republic 

-
SUMMER IN THESE COUNTRIES: 
England  Ireland  
Estonia  Lithuania  
Germany  Mexico  
Honduras  United States  

Russia Slovakia Poland 

Well Done to a Dedicated Group ofCouncil Members and Best Wishes for Successful Internships! 
For more information about the Council's International Internship Prop-am, contact our office at (219) 631-9044. 
~---.--~--~------~~~------------------~-----------------------------------------­
Wednesday, May 3, 1995 The Observer· SPORTS page 29 
Rosenthal 
continued from page 36 
lost his affinity for Notre Dame, and 
eagerly returned to his alma mater. 
"I believe I understood Notre Dame," 
he stated. "I had been a student here, 
an athlete here, but also most of my 
adult career had been spent right here 
within the confines of this campus." 
Yet, Hosenthal is quick to point out 
that this knowledge of the Notre Dame 
community was only one facet in making 
the transition from banking to athletics 
as smooth as possible. 
"''m not sure it would have been very ·easy to assume a role in Notre Dame 
athletic administration had it not been 
for the experienced people we had 
here," added Rosenthal. "We were 
blessed when I arrived with absolutely 
marvelous administrators." 
Drawing on all of these factors, 
Hosenthal has enhanced both the pres­
tige and the competitiveness of Irish 
athletics throughout his regime. 
Perhaps the crowning achievement of 
his term occurred in 1991, when 
Hosenthal engineered a deal with NBC 
to televise all Notre Dame home football 
games. The deal has been extended 
through the 2000 season. 
Notrn IJame was at the time affiliated 
with the College Football Association, 
but tlw trend of regionalizing games on 
network television worried the Irish 
administration. 
"We were very concerned with a plan 
that would consolidate all of college 
football on one network," explained 
Hosenthal. "Notre Dame is a national 
university, and it was important that our 
gamns be telecast on both coasts 
because our constituency was national." 
Certainly a controversial move, and 
one that drew harsh words from critics 
who believed Notre Dame thought it was 
above collegiate athletics. However, this 
criticism was the product of a double 
standard, according to Rosenthal. 
"When Notre Dame entered into the 
contract in football with NBC, it did 
exactly what others had done before it," he noted. "It has always been a source of puzzlement to me how people could say Notre Dame was wrong in football when they had just done the same thing in basketball." 
Rather than fostering elitism, Rosenthal saw opportunity in NBC's offer, and determined that in this case the 'right' decision was to pursue the university's best interests. 
"The number one priority of the uni­versity, established by the trustees, was to raise money for the endowment for student aid," he explained. "Joining NBC was an avenue for materially aid­ing that funding, and has been success­ful, as we've raised upwards of $35 mil­lion." 
Rosenthal was not content with this accomplishment alone, however, but fol­lowed it with yet another coup for Notre Dame sports less than three years later, alleviating Wl'tat many detractors saw as the biggest disadvantage to Notre Dame sports, the lack of conference affiliation, by joining the Big East. 
In the summer of '94, Notre Dame announced that starting in the 95-96 school year, most major sports with the exception of the traditionally indepen­dent football team would begin con­ference play. Again, Rosenthal played an integral part. 
"When Mike Tranghese called me shortly after assuming the role of Big East commissioner, we again had some discussions relevant to Notre Dame join­ing the Big East," stated Rosenthal. "After they worked out the differences between football and basketball schools, the discussions moved very quickly and fruitfully. Good ideas sometimes don't take very long to put together." 
Certainly in this decision more than others, the balance between tradition and progress was tenuous. but Rosenthal was able to achieve a solution mutually beneficial to both. 
Notre Dame's inclusion in the Big East allowed the football program to continue its independence, for as Rosenthal noted, "We didn't want to give up the traditional rivalries with great schools such as Michigan and USC." 
At the same time, though, the basket­ball program and up-and-coming Olympic sports needed room to grow that could not be provided by the dying MCC. The Big East was a solution for this as well. 
"Clearly there is an enhancement to basketball from joining the Big East," said Rosenthal. "There's also a mar­velous enhancement to the quality of the competition and the national promi­nence of the other sports." 
This improvement in the competitive­ness and exposure of the Olympic sports is another mark of the Rosenthal era. This year alone eleven different teams have competed or will compete in the NCAA championships of their respective sports. 
Here too Rosenthal gives credit to his colleagues in the university system. 
"Fr. Beauchamp has been marvelous in his willingness to be involved in ath­letic deliberations," he stated. "Also, successful teams have successful coach­es, and we've been successful in assem­bling the best intercollegiate coaching staff in the country. 
"If you get a lot of people on a team to approximate their potential, and that's really what we ask our coaches to do, ihe funny thing is, they can win," he continued. 
The excellence of Notre Dame athlet­ics on the field, coupled with the ever­increasing prestige that Rosenthal has achieved for the university have earned him his share of accolades as well. 
In 1991, The Sporting News listed him as the 37th most powerful person in sports, the only athletic director so ac­knowledged. He also holds positions on numerous committees within the NCAA hierarchy. 
However, the world of sports is more for Rosenthal than just a resume-filler. Having been around athletics at the collegiate level for a good portion of his life, he realizes their intrinsic value. 
''I'm convinced that the lessons of ath­letics are primary -you learn at an early age that you aren't born with all the skills in the world, but you can work hard enough to improve them," said Rosenthal. 
"The best lesson of all is that in athlet­ics as in life, things don't go exactly as planned," he continued. "You get knocked down and have a choice: you can either lie there or get up. Athletics teach you to get up." 
This view made Rosenthal's fit with the Notre Dame a natural one, as this is the same ethos preached by the univer­sity. 
"Fr. Malloy's white papPI made it very clear that the justification of athletics is that it is part of the educational experi­ence," Hosenthal explained. "We all (the administration) believe this passion­ately." 
This belief also provides Rosenthal confidence when looking towards the future of Notre Dame athletics, a future that he more than anyone else has laid the groundwork for. 
"Notre Dame's future is brighter now than at any time in its history. and it should be because of the tradition of growing on the past," he stated. 
His own future holds equal promise, as Rosenthal expects to spend time with his wife of 39 years and their eight chil­dren and eight grandchildren. While comfortably falling back into the role of a fan, he also expects to stay active with Notre Dame in various leadership func­tions within the university framework. 
"This is home for us, and we're going to stay here," he concluded. 
His proximity will certainly be reward­ing, as he will undoubtedly be able to watch the legacy he created continue to expand and reach fruition. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
AQUATICS ~ Shirley A. Nagy of Northville, Mich. will recieve the 1995 University of Notre Dame Lifeguard Award for Outstanding Service. 
S.PECIAI. OLYMPICS • Volunteers are needed to help with swimming on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 4:30~ 
5:30 p.m. at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. For more information call coach Dennis Stark at 1-5983 
BIATHALON • RecSports will be offering a one-mile swim, two-mile run biathalon August 26. Start train~ ing now and over the summer! 

r--1/ilfjtline~ff; -, 
I 1-16" Extra Large I I Two Toppings I 

NEW
: $950 :


I ~ I 
._ _______ _.
I AddlllotlaiT-I1.25PCh.NotrliidWitlllllf'/OihllrCOOf!IJII. I 
fiNAL 
ExAM

r--Tatiliu7il'{riectar -, I (9:00p.m. until closing) I PRESENTS ••• 
HOURS:

1 1-14" Large 1 1 1Topping Pizza 1 

May 3n1-May 12th 11:00 a.m.-2:00a.m.
: $59~ : 
._ ______ _
I AiJtMionM T'Winfp 96c PCil Not.rlitl Wlllllllf'l olhllr -..J 
Good Luck on 

r---unerra;ue--,
I One Topping I your finals and 
~695 

1 r:ft4"Larue 1 
I I have agreat
I One Topping I I._ ______ $11~~ _ I 
I Alldtilwl Toppingr 96c udl. Not.rlitl Mill lily olhllr -_J 
summer! 

r--'Crou;iSfiiOy ~eCi81 -, Seniors... 
I 4-14" Large I 
: 1Topping Pizzas : We will miss 
: $22~.5 : 
you!

. I Additio111/ TIJfJ{Jin(p 96c t.ICh. Not rlikl Willi lily olhBr coupon...J
._ ___ --­
page 30 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, May 3, 1995 
• SMC SOFTBAll 
.., 
Saint Mary's softball soars to 20-win season 
By LORI GADDIS Sports Writer 
Jerry, La Pared, Patsy, Mischy-Misch, Pious, Heiseman, Deborahson, Baquita, Chico, Gerty, Scaly, Beaker, Derf, Woody, Apes. Believe it or not, these are the members of the Saint Mary's softball team. 
It does not sound much like a rough-and-tumble, down-and­d_irty athletic team. But that is what is so ironic about this Belle squad. Saint Mary's has emerged this season tough, aggressive, and ranked in the national poll. 
The nicknames come from a season of-double headers, a training trip to Florida and a closeness that has developed among team members through­out the long months of softball. The ranking comes from an outstanding team of talented women who finished with a season record of 20-15. 
Saint Mary's is about to finish their season by playing a make­up game with Bethel College, which was called on account of darkness. The Belles must play 3 innings of the game in which they were leading 6-3. 
Saint Mary's returned from Calvin College with two tough losses, 6-4, 5-l. Calvin is ranked number 2 in the Central Region. 
The Belles' Michelle Limb went 3-4, scoring 2 runs and stealing 1 base and junior Shannon Heise went 1-3 with 2 RBis. The Belles had 7 hits in the first game and 4 hits in the second game but still could not get around errors and leaving runners stranded on base. 
Saint Mary's is a team filled with much talent as well as po­tential. Freshman Andrea Arena had an outstanding sea­son at third base for the Belles. Arena had a batting average of .430, including 49 hits, 9 dou­bles, 25 RBis and 17 stolen bases. 
She recently received the Impact Award for softball at the 
.... 
athletic banquet held last Sunday. 
It entails having the greatest impact on the overall perfor­mance of the team: offensively, defensively, maintaining a posi­tive mental attitude, and being coachable and a supportive teammate. 
"As a first-year player, I was a little intimidated but after playing for a season, I feel the confidence that everyone has in this team," Arena said. "We are capable of beating any of the teams that we played this year." 
Heise received an award for Team Player, showing high lev­els of intensity, being a leader both on and off the field and generally providing a spark for the team. while sophomore Katie Maxbauer received an award for Most Improved play­er by continually working hard to improve herself and working her way into a starting position in right field. 
"As a team, we improved as a whole," Maxbauer stated. "To be recognized as one individual that helped the team improve is flattering." 
One of the most impressive aspects of Saint Mary's softball is the intense level of enthusi­asm as well as a common respect among the members of the team. Softball season itself lasts 5 months, not including pre-season training that takes place in the fall. 
Surprisingly, the Belles are not bothered by the amount of time that they spend together, but they welcome it. Saint Mary's closeness and com­raderie can be seen both on and off of the field. 
"All of the individuals make up one unique unit," explained junior Laura Richter. "I really thank God for the opportunity to be involved in all of these players' lives. I have been blessed to work with this group of women." 
The team is also fortun11te to have a close relationship with 
Think Lulds /or early morning studyirjg_ and meetings! Now open late on most night; of the week! 
Edison Pla2".il-1631 Edison Rd. 
(acra~s/ram tk Linelxukr) 
(219)273-6216 

Monday-Tuesday 7:OOa.m.-lO:OOp.m. Wednesday-Friday 7:OOa.m.-Mlllnight Saturday 9:00a.m.-Midnight
L----------------------------------­
a sort of play 
by A.R. Gurney A Faculty Recital Featuring Katie Sullivan Mike D. Morris 
Thursday and Friday, May 4 and 5, 8 p.m. Moreau Center/Little Theatre Admission Free 
---tit--­

DepartmenI olCommunlcallon,
Saint Mary's College 

Done. • 'Theatl'l
NOTRE DAME· INDIANA 


The Observer/Cynlhia Exconde 

The Saint Mary's softball team finished the 1995 campaign with a solid 20-15 record, a national ranking, and 
hope for the future. 
their coaches, Maggie Killian and Jan Travis. 
"I am glad for the opportunity to work with a close group of young ladies," said Killian. "They have a lot of unrealized potential which will benefit future seasons." 
Saint Mary's has gained much experience which will help them next year. They will have 12 returnees, graduating only 2 seniors Seanne Patrick and April Rhoades. 
"I think we have a good foun­dation to work with next year," said sophomore Gretchen Moore. "We will continue our training during the off-season. We did that for the first time this year and that really helped to improve our season." 
Junior Amy Misch agreed with Moore and was also opti­mistic about next year. 
"We had a great season and the fact that we are all friends helped us to work hard," Misch explained. "We didn't want to let each other down. I am real­ly looking forward to next year, with the hopes that our rela­tionships will only get s)fonger." 


------------------------------------------------------------,
2 Me"ttium Cheese Pizzas 
$ 7 99 
plus tax 

e ~~:~~~~rt:~~ss~~~s$2~. ~~rd~~e:~r:"lof~~a~r!:d ro~red:rw":n~S~1u9~5'&!"Jh~e~Pi~·~~~jXc~reas limited to ensure sate drtving. 
Toppings Onions • Green Pepper • Beef Pepperoni • Mushrooms Black Olives • Ham Cheddar Cheese • Hot Peppers Sausage • Bacon • Pineapple 
Twisty Bread & Dipping Sauce $.99 
Pizza-Garlic-Jalapefio available on request 
Coke or Diet Coke $.50/can $1.49/2-liter 

Wednesday, May 3, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 31 
Women's lax advances to semi-final in inaugural season 
By MEGAN McGRATH Sports Writer 
The Notre Uame women's 
defense stepped up its intensity, led by freshmen goalie Kara Winn and third man Kerry Audley. But the Buckeye East-West All-Star game. For the West, the Irish played along side players from Ohio State, Miami {Ohio), Toledo and 13-7 win over the East, com­prised of women from Pitt, SUNY-Binghampton, Mercyhurst and Carnegie Sailing Team's leading skippers who will end their season this weekend at the Team Racing Finals. 
lacrosse team concluded their inaugural season this past weekend at the Women's Collegiate Lacrosse League Play-offs held al Ohio Stale. 
Tho learn exceeded all pre­season expectations by advanc­ing to the semi-final round. There they fell to a well­coached, experienced Ohio State club 8-5. 
·The Buckeyes scored early on an obviously nervous Irish squad, getting three quick goals in the first ten minutes of the match. But Notre Dame settled down, and at half-time the lead was 4-1. 
In the second half, the Irish defense was equally tough, swarming the middle and refus­ing to allow the Irish to score. 
Late in the half, Notre Dame was able to break through the zone. Freshmen Rachel Cain and Colleen Reilly found holes in the defense, and the Irish cut the lead to 5-3. Unfortunately, the Buckeyes responded with two quick goals of their own that put the Irish away. 
"We were in the game until the end and we didn't give up," said senior captai.ij_ Molly Donius. "I was proud of the way we played all season." 
Sunday members of the Notre Dame squad dominated the 
Michigan State. They posted a 
The ~· 


HEY NACHO! DID YOU SEE THAT PICTURE OF ~ruJrp~rr [!))~v~ IN THE OBSERVER? 

Mellon. · 
Irish all-stars Tara Pierce and Michelle McQuillan dominated the offense for the West. Pierce led the team with five goals, and McQuillan scored two while valiantly playing with severe flu-like symptoms. Senior Julie Mayglothling keyed a strong defensive effort. 
Despite the play-off loss, the team has high hopes for the seasons to come. 
"We're a very young team, and with more experience we'll only get better," said freshman Eileen Regan. "We have a lot of talent; next season we need to learn how to use it more effectively." 
Last weekend the team raced in the Coed Dingy Championships for the Midwest Collegiate Sailing Association, and received a respectable fourth place. Unfortunately, only the top two teams qualified for Nationals. 
"The regatta was an exciting experience," said sophomore skipper Brien Fox. "I feel we did a great job this year, and we're really geared up for next year." 
Fox is also excited about the team's race this weekend, and feels that they will place better than last weekend. 
The Sailing Team is excited about next year due the discov­ery of two new renown incom­
SAILING ing freshman skippers, one 

They aren't ordinary skip­from St. Petersburg, Florida pers. Steve Kelley, Bridget and the other from Hawaii. Murray, Lauren Mack, and Brien Fox are the Notre Dame -Caroline Blum 
UPs 
Mail Boxes Etc. 
Authorized Shipping Outlet 
Stepan Basketball Courts 
Monday, May 8-Saturday, May 13 10 a.m.-5p.m. 
Thursday, May 18 ·Saturday, May 20 10 a.m. • 5 p.m. 
Monday, May 22 10 a.m. -5p.m. 
Lvons Basketball Courts 
INednesday, May 10 ·Saturday, May 13 10 a.m.-5p.m Thursday, May 18-Saturday, May 20 10 a.m.-5 p.m. 

• 
Foam Peanuts, Tape, Bubble Wrap, etc. • $100 Free Declared Value/Box 

• 
Mail Boxes Etc. may cost less than using amoving truck! FURNITURE? WE'LL SHIP IT! ASK US. 


After Fuuls .•. 
-:C:: 

~~t;=.,:anl'":':.:Sil.l{:c.e:io::.~:.=\tu.:.::.=h:.'xr: Fromm..:=san::r::':li&o::r.r.:iri .. .r.oux:·..:..az: ''.Lb~!::. 
:w0:$YO.:~'"''::Iaft '!Bf:r.:ICKL'l:.I:..:IIUS':CI'l.IOIII'"lll:.; 
.t.U.ILICEDETC:' 
~~~~~~~~~,~~~'-r·_ 
Permanent Location 
Comer of S.R. 23 &Ironwood Martin's Ironwood Plaza North 
$1.00 
Off/box 
(Excludes Pick Ups) 
.:.~!~00!:~~.!.£~,,,,~.1?~:, 

StopbyourstoreorCaiJ 277-MAIL (6245) forourfreeplckupservlce. (Pick up Is FREE, however no discounts accepted on pick-ups. Call earty to reserve pick-up time.) 

Come take abreak from finals! 
·Breakfast served all day ·lunch ·Dinner ·Or a snack ANYTIME 
Just Minutes from Campus 


OPEN 24 HOURS 1710 N. Ironwood 
277-7400 

..­

• BASEBAlL 
Irish drop 16 inning heartbreaker to Wolverines, 7-6 
By MEGAN McGRATH 
SportS Writer 
Any one hoping to enjoy a relaxing night at the ball-park got more than they bargained for Tuesday night. 
Patrons of the Notre Dame­Michigan game at Old Kent Park in Grand Rapids were treated to an intense, epic bat­tle in which the Wolverines eventually prevailed 7-6 in 16 innings. 
"I don't ever remember being a part of a game this long," head coach Paul Mainieri said. "But I couldn't be more proud of the effort we showed tonight." 
Michigan (20-23) jumped out ble. Two outs later, Scott to a quick lead. The Sollmann singled to score Brock Wolverines drove starter and Mike Amrhein would single 
Christian Parker from the hill home Sollmann. Topham fol­with a four runs in the second lowed with an RBI triple, and inning. Ryan Van Oberan pro-George Restovich's run-scoring 
Only 2 8 Days Til 
Mike 

is TWENTY-ONE!! 
HAPPY 
BIRTHDAY 

Love, Mom, Dad, Rich & Alfie 
CONGRATULATE 'lOUR FAVORITE GRADUATE! 
Reserve this sPace for onlY $20. or something a little bigger for a little more! Call 219·631·6900 for info or send a Picture and something to say with a check to: The Observer PO Box Q Notre Dame IN 46556 bY May 16th! 
•Kill o1 0ealh(ll)12:55,3:20,5:40,8:00,10:20 •ftlrrat lllnp(PG) 1:00,4:00,7:00,10:1111 •llllllra Cldlne(ll) 1:20,4:05,7:10,10:10 •Til CI'I(PG·13l 1:115,3:30,5:50,8:05,10:25 •Circi allfleiiii(PG·13)1:30,4:20,7:20,8:5D •Dao J• ~MI'CO(PG·13) 12:50,3:10,5:30,7:45,10:05 •MIIll' PIYIII(PG·13l 1:10,3:25,5:45,7:55,10:15 •Mlrlels W1911JJJ(R) 1:35,4:10,7:05,8:45 
•Till Tlle(PGJ 1:25,3:35,5:35 
I•EIIDIICIIRJ 7:40,8:55 llldlhe Peoguln(G) 1:15,3:05,5:00 
•Tlle Madness of King Geoi'U8{PG·13) 7:15,9:40 ~1 7o ALL SEATS ll~~OtlE 6 Pl.1 

• tiO PASSE:> • ~UI>W$AVERS AC.CEPTEO 
-.... 
Engagement Rings 
10%-15% OFF! Official Wholesale Price List! 

S.A. Peck & Co. 

55 E. Washington, Chicago, IL 60602 For a Free 32-Page 'Color Catalog Toll-Free (800) 922-0090 FAX (312) 977-0248 Internet Catalog at http: llwww.sapeck.com/sapeck 
My Fashion Secret? 
Who said that in order to look good you had to spend a lot of money? Goodwill carries all the Brand Name clothing you like, 
Igot it at Goodwill. 
but without the brand new prices.We have the same large, quality selection of clothing that you would find in the mall ... but at a price that will keep you coming back, looking good, and impressing friends. So, the next time you need that particular outfit for that special occasion, or you're just looking for something different, give us a try.You'll find there's something for everyone at Goodwill. 
921 N. Edd~ SOUTH BEND 
3420 Grape Road, MISHAWAKA 
1805 Western Avenue, SOUTH BEND 
Open Daily at 9:00AM; Open Noon Sunday 
double tied the game. 

The score remained knotted at five until the top of the 14th inning. Junior Rowan Richards hit a lead-off single over first, and promptly stole second. With one out Brock hit a grounder to second baseman Kirk Beerman, but Beerman overthrew first allowing Richards to score. 
The Wolverines wouldn't give up, though. With two outs in the bottom of the frame, Michigan's home run leader Brian Simmons took a Rich Sauget offering just over the fence in right to tie the game. 
Intensive  Italian Summer Language  Program  
June 20-August 2, 1995  
Earn up to 9 Credits in Italian  
Fulfills Arts & Letters Language Requirement  
Survival Skills /or Travel • Grammar • Culture  
Music • Movies • Art  
ROIT 101  Beginning Italian  6/20-7/4  
ROIT 102  Continuing Beginning Italian  7/5-7/19  
ROIT 103  Intermediate Italian  7/20-8/2  

Classes meet daily from 9:10-11:20 a.m. Tutorial from 1:30-2:30 p.m. 
Contact: Summer Schad Director, 312 Main Building, Uniwrsity a/Notre "D:!me, Notre "D:!me, IN 46556 Or Calf: Ikp:Jrtment a/Romanm Languages & Literatures, 631.0886 
In the bottom of the 16th, the Wolverines' finally delivered the knock-out punch. Van Oberan singled and advanced to second on a sacrifice. 
Weaver was given an inten­tional pass to get to first base­man Chad Chapman, who was 0-7 on the night. 
Chapman responded by pok­ing a single through the hole in left. Sollmann came up throw­ing and with a head-first slide Van Oberan just eluded Restovich's tag. 
"This was one of those games that its a shame any one has to lose," Mainieri said. "Its a shame Rich Sauget had to get a 
loss with the tremendous job he did." 
Sauget threw eight and a third innings of relief, allowing nine hits, two earned runs and striking out six. It was the se­nior's first loss against two wins. 
Up next for the Irish is a Thursday double-header at Central Michigan. Friday the team returns home to face Northeastern Illinois at 7:00 p.m. 
Notre Dame will also be the host of the MCC tournament, to be held May 13-17 at Frank Eck Stadium. 

.----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, May 3, 1995 
NCAA 
continued from page 36 
the midwest. Assuming they defeat Ball State on Friday, Minnesota will be a formidable opponent for the Irish. 
"Minnesota is a big hurdle for us. I can't even think of Mississippi... we will have to play the best match all year (to beat Minnesota)," Bayliss said. 
Notre Dame has a couple of players coming olT injuries, and the Irish hope to be at one hun­dred percent at the end of the week. Bayliss also mentioned the Irish had plenty of time to rest, going without a match for two weeks. He feels Minnesota is more match ready than the Irish since they had the Big Ten championship last week. Plus. Minnesota will play a match on Friday, while the Irish don't play until Saturday. However, Bayliss feels Minnesota may be in an advantageous spot. 

"They play a match Friday, and we come in cold. I would want the early match," Bayliss said. 
Since the match is at Notre Dame, Bayliss hopes for a big crowd so the location works to the advantage of the Irish. 
MAY1QTH 
SHE'S 21! HAPPY BIRTHDAY OUR SWEET BUN! 
LOVE, 
MOM&DAD 
K-KLAN 

Would You Believe 
22 on 5-15-95 and 
Graduating on 5-21-95? 
Congratulations Andrew 
Mom, Dad, &Jim 
Love, 
SENIOR MONTH CONTINUES • 
with 

THE PIG 
The Observer • SPORTS 
Bayliss mentioned the team hasn't seized some of the op­portunities they have had this year playing close matches against tough teams, and hopes this weekend the Irish will step up and seize this opportunity to win a regional championship. 
"Certainly they have given great effort, and they're a great group of guys. They haven't really cashed in the check yet, hopefully we will this week­end." 
The winner of the region ad­vances to the NCAA The 15-8 Irish will hope to extend a great season by "cashing the check" this weekend. · 
•NHL 
Habs 
headed home 
By BUCK¥ GLEASON 
Associated Press 
BUFFALO, N.Y. 
The former coach is in no condition to talk about the last time the Montreal Canadiens missed the NHL playoffs, and one of the star players simply refuses to do so a quarter-cen­tury later. 
Montreal was eliminated from playoff contention Monday night. The 2-0 loss to the Buffalo Sabres marked one of the lowest points in the Canadiens' illustrious 77-year history. 
Now, the Canadiens end th.eir worst season in 4 7 years at home against the Boston Bruins on Wednesday after missing the playoffs for the first time since 1969-70. The 23 Stanley Cup banners hanging from the rafters of the Montreal Forum suddenly seem meaningless, at least for now. 
The festivities begin at~ 
"h. ,;;, '''"' 
7:00pm on Wetlnegt/ay, May}"lat w~enlir IJir. 


Also, don't forget to kick off 
Senior Week 

on Friday, May 12th at Ssnior Bar 
with 


@®~M~~~~ ~ w~@~OO)~~ ~ ~@ij~~ ~~~~ 
WIN ATRIP FOR TWO TO THE CARIBBE.ANI 
.--..... ..·Hf··. 

(Don't forget to bring your bathing suit) 
The Observer/Scott Mendenhall Sophomore Ryan Simme and his teammates are the second seed this weekend in the midwest regional of the NCAA tournament. 
HEY! 
Roz Decarbo ... Now You're Legal! Happy 21st Birthday!! 
Love, Mom, Dad, E.]. &Maggie 
/?1-\~ieh:t~t~~~;...
'-"'£xP-~~ 
6239 University Commons Drive South Bend, Indiana 46635 (219) 272· 6702 
Chinese, Vietnamese, & American Food Lunch 11 :00 a.m. -3:00 p.m. Dinner menu will be served after 3:00p.m. 15 Years of Service Award The Chamber Of Commerce St. Joseph County 
"Enjoy a unique experience in Oriental Dining" 
• 
Fresh Ingredients 

•Lunch 
Specials starting at $3.50 include: egg roll, soup and tea 

• 
Dinners starting at $5 

• 
Private Dining Booths 

•Custom 
cooking with no MSG 

• 
Vegetarian Menu 

•15 
Years of Service Award 



For Reservations &Carry Out Call: 
272-6702 
ForDine-ln Delivery Call: 
272-2328 

Take a Break from Finals & Recieve
25% off any purchase. 
•'""' ""'"''"" ,.,,. .ut•
•••t•ll••.. :,1Jf,U• 

! 
f 
I' 
piJ.ge 34 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, May 3, 1995
I 
• SOFTBAll. 
.• 

Notre Dame second baseman Katie Marten has set an Irish record for stolen bases. 
r----------------------------------------------·-·
UNUSUAL SUMMER JOB ON CAMPUS l 
WNDU needs a vacation relief technician for summer employ­ment from May through September to install, operate, maintain, and repair radio, television, cable, and satellite equipment. This is 
.ideal for a technically-minded science/engineer student with a knowledge of electricity and electronics. The position is for up to 40 hours per week, includes shiftwork, and requires a valid dri­ver's license and transportation. Please apply at the WNDU Studios by May 5'h. 
ATTENTION COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION SOPHOMORES 
If you are interested in serving on the College of Business Administration College Council please submit your resume to Assistant Dean Sam Gaglio, Room 132 Hayes-Healy Center, no later than May 3, 1995. 
If you need more information call 63 1-6602. 
Stretch run key for No. 23 Irish 
By NEIL ZENDER Sports Writer 

Live and let die. For the Notre Dame softball club it's all come down to that. Only three opponents remain in the regu­lar season and every one will have a major influence on the Irish postseason. 
"We're going to take these one game at a time and try and keep as focused as possible." Coach Liz Miller said. "We're not going to look backwards. everything hinges on this last week." 
No. 23 ranked Notre Dame (31-15) needs to defeat their next three opponents; Northwestern tomorrow, Detroit on Saturday and an as yet unscheduled game against Loyola. That would guarantee their second straight MCC divi­sion title and fourth in five years. The next three games will determine the seeding for the MCC title and right now the Irish are only a half game ahead of the rest of the pack. 
"Right now we're just focus­ing on getting the number one seed in the tourney." Miller said. "We have control. We just have to win the next three games." 

The MCC tournament will held May 11-13 and the winner advances to the NCAA tourna­ment beginning May 19. However, even if Notre Dame fails to win the MCC it can still qualify for the NCAA as a wild­card. However. to have a prayer the Irish need to rank among the region's top three. Right now, Notre Dame is ranked third -right ahead of No. 4 Northwestern. After the Irish's lethargic play against Indiana last Saturday they'll need a sweep of the Wildcats to avoid dropping below them in the rankings. 
Notre Dame will be boosted by the solid play of Katie Marten. Marten's not a spark­plug, she's a sub-station, cur­rently ranking second in the MCC in batting average and has set an Irish team record by stealing 15 bases this season. 
Batting behind her is hot-hit­ting freshman Jennifer Giampaolo. Giampaolo's true prowess is in centerfield. She covers more real estate than Century 21 and has gunned down six runners at home plate. 
Terri Kobata's 10.45 strike­outs per seven innings ranks third in America and her 0.51 
E.R.A. is fifth. However. Kobata has been plagued by a sore hip flexor the last few weeks. It appears as if the hip is only a problem in cold weath­er, however right now Kobata is only at 60 percent. 
"Terri's not throwing as well as she did earlier in the year." Miller said. "Stamina will be crucial. I'm looking for other kids to step in. I'm confident that they can do that." 
That'll mean Joy Battersby and Kelly Nichols. Battersby, the number two starter, must have played with matches as a child. She has a habit of get­ting into jams but has the incredible ability of working her way out nearly ever time. She can be counted on for a solid outing. Reliver Kelly Nichols is ready to pick up Kobata's slack if needed. 
Session I -May 18 to June 23 Session II -June 26 to August 3 
There are some good reasons to take classes at Holy Cross College this summer. Perhaps you could benefit from one or both of our summer sessions, each offering a wide variety of quality general education courses. Or maybe our affordable summer tuition rate of $140 per credit hour sounds appealing. 
Whatever the reason, Holy Cross College summer sessions can offer you the opportunity to use your time more productively during the upcoming summer break. You can take advantage of our exceptionally small classes, dedicated and caring faculty and our convenient location just to the west of the University of Notre Dame campus. And, of course, credit earned is transferrable. 
So why not write or call today for more information about Holy Cross College? Applications for Summer Sessions Iand II, as well as for the 1995 Fall Semester, are now being accepted. 
* HOLY CROSS COLLEGE 
Office of Admissions P.O.Box 308 o Notre Dame, IN 46556-0308 
(219) 233-6813, ext. 22 o Fax (219) 233-7427 
Q 1995 

®'·
CHJIMPIOIVSHIPS 
1995 NCAA MEN'S TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS 
ntE 
WOBLD'S 
BEST coLLEGIATE MEN'S TENNIS 
pLAYEBSABE COMlN.c:_E' 
0
NOTRE D.cu"• 


... 
Wednesday, May 3, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 35 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
!jfo.TE W~£.~ A LOT Of KIDS 
AR£ ON T\\t. SLIDE. 'ro\1 WJ\IT roREWR 10 GB ~ TJ.\E 10? At-\0 T\\El'\ 1\-1£. RWE IS 
~R SO Ffo.ST. 
DILBERT 

one

6 Synagogue 33 R.b.i. 'setal.
10 Newborn equine 37 Old French coins
14 Movie rental 39 Sultan's
15 Come in second subjects16 Florence's river 41 Kind of team 
17 Wine fermenter 42 Futures market 
10 Be an commodity
accessory to the crime 44 All in --work 
19 Tortoiselike 46"You -­There" (50's TV
20 Telegraph show)
language, formally 47 Telegraph 23 Yalta participant 
company 

26 Somersaulting 50 20 Questions dive 
category 

27 Apt anagram of 53 Capri's Blue 20-Across 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

Cll995 Gammy Inc. 
01st by Tribune Med1a SerVIces. Inc 
~\) IF '(OU SIT \=OR. A t-\OtAt.lH "\D ~~JO'( Tl\t. 1\E.IG\T, E.V~R'I BOO'i '/£.U.S AT 'i()J 
T() G8' GO\t-IG. 
:II 
0 
() 
.. -' 
0 
® 
I)) 
:II.. c.. 
...
... 
0 
() 
I)) 
~ 
r ... 
~ 
V) 
lT CAN LEf\0 TO HEAD­
ACH£.5, FATIGUL AND UNWANTED FA.I'\lLY 1"\EI'\BERS WHO BECOI'"\E 

~ 
MIKE PETERS 
' 

1t'O!\lT KNOW Ill 
SOMST/MeS I 
QU~ST/01\l 
WHEnfSR 

TH~Re f?J.AC,(..~ \SA HAN~:>, 
1\1\\) 5\)ME.TIME'S 1\-1£. IDI()T BE.\-\I~D 'iOJ SThR\5 OOWI'\ TOO sooN 1\t--\D 1-\E SMfo.CKS 
It-ITO ~ fo.T T\-1~ ~TIWI ~R)RE '(OJ CAN G8' A.'WP--'<.., 
BILL WATTERSON 
'IE.?, ~£. ?L~'IGRCIJ~D 15 ~ LOT MORE HJN. "-1'\ER C.U..SS S\11-RTS. 
i 
i 
Sl 
ll!iold~ 

SCOTT ADAMS 


45 For Americans, 55 Martian craft, it's always last maybe 
54 Apt anagram of 47-Across 58 Malevolent 59 Have--(blow one's top) so Actress Aimee 64 Holler 
65"The Dram-Shop" author 
66 Shiner 67 Pipe bends as W.W. I battle 
area 69 Patrick or J.R. 
DOWN 
1 Wall clinger 2 Fr. company 3 Miss Lupine 4 Crunch maker 5 Gloomy books 6 Wrestling 
maneuver 7 Vagrant a ---friendly 
9 Releases revolutionary 10 Generalissimo 29 Get away from 
Franco et al. 30 Preclude 11 Sweater fabric 34 Be in store for 12 Terminal 35 Fortune teller 
36 Secretary, at times 13 Humble 

21--Gay 
38 Oregon22 Roadside sign 
workplaces 23 Scold 40 "Riders to the 24 Emulate Mr. Sea" dramatist 
Chips 43 Sign of pathos 48 Tawdry 56 "Cleopatra" 49 "I'm busy!" 
locale 
57 Celebrity

50 Keep--on 
61 Yes, to Yves 51 Bellow specialty 
62 Annapolis org. (Gloria Gaynor 63 College party hit) staple 52"-Survive" 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1·900·420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 

yorun~ oppo nltles are still available in teach­ing a,,nd !;octal services. Jf you don't want to work at ",~~9ctor and Gamble just yet, come to the CSC! There 'are still opportunities with some great programs all 
Have something to say? 
Use The Observer classifieds 


It's the END of the semester .••.. Time to have FUN and CELEBRATE! 
BUT • • • STAYSMARTI 
REMEMBER:  0 •  Zero Alcohol. Especially if you're under 21, driving, chemically dependent, on certain medications, or pregnant.  
1 •  One drink per hour, which sets the pace for moderate drinking_ A woman may need to allow more time between drinks right  
before or during her menstrual cycle.  
2..  No more than two drinks per day, and never daily for women_  

3. No more than three drinks per day, and never daily for men. 
And have a Safe Summer 
Sponsored by: Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 
-:.. 
SPORTS 
page 36 Wednesday, May 3, 1995 
Changing o, 1 Guard 
prepares to step into top post ofathletic department 
· By MIKE NORBUT 
Sports Editor 
M
ichael Wadsworth has a small office. But he'll be moving into a bigger one soon enough. 
The move itself will be rather trivial, seeing that he will just be carrying a boxload of work across the hall. But symbolically, the move marks the most important personnel change in Irish sports in the past seven years. 
On August 1, 1995, Wadsworth will officially replace Dick Rosenthal as director of athletics at the University of Notre Dame. His move into the bigger office will come soon after. 
"That office is Dick's for as long as he wants it," Wadsworth chuckled. "I'm happy just to have an office." 
And seeing that he has only been 
see NEW AD/ page 28 
By TIM SEYMOUR 
Associate Sports Editor 
P 
rotecting and guiding the vast Notre Dame sports tradition is a delicate matter indeed. No other school in the country inspires such interest on a national level, and very few fluctuate in the "love them or hate them" atti­tude that constantly embroils Notre Dame. 
Finishing his eighth year as director of athletics, no one un­derstands this more than Dick Rosenthal, who will end his tenure with the Irish when he retires in August. 
"I think people find them­selves in a position where if they act they will be criticized, and if they don't act they will be criti­cized," explained Rosenthal of the dilemma facing Notre Dame. "The only thing to do is what is 
... 
• MEN'S TENNIS 
Host Irish seeded second in region 
ByB.j. HOOD 
Sports Writer 
The weekend of the men's
.... 
tennis regional championship is here for the host Notre Dame team. And, typical of this Irish ttJam's season, they are in the toughest region. 
Mississippi, Notre Dame, Minnesota, Michigan, Northwestern, and Ball State are the six teams, seeded one through six, respectively. 
On Friday, twenty-fifth ranked Michigan takes on Northwestern, and eighteenth ranked Minnesota battles Ball State. On Saturday at ten a.m., Mississippi plays the winner of the Michigan-Northwestern match. The Irish play at one 
p.m. on Saturday against the Minnesota-Ball State winner. The championship is Sunday at one p.m. 
The number one seed is eighth rated Mississippi, a team Bayliss called "dynamite." Mississippi was picked to con­tend for the NCAA champi­onship. Last year, the Irish team played Mississippi twice, and Mississippi had the upper hand both times. 
Playing number one singles for Mississippi is Mahesh Bhutathi, who plays Davis Cup for India. Bhutathi is ranked in the top two hundred of the world. 
The second seeded and nine­teenth ranked Irish can't look ahead to Mississippi, though. The third seed is eighteenth rated Minnesota, a team that defeated the Irish 4-3 earlier this year, and will feature Ross Loel, possibly the best player in 
Rose nth to leave lasting legacy of excellence for Notre Dame athletics 
right." 
Throughout his term, Rosenthal has done just that for the university, making the diffi­cult decisions that have ce­mented Notre Dame's place at the pinnacle of collegiate athlet­ics. 
Rosenthal assumed the post of director of athletics in August 4, 1987, but his relationship with the university existed long before that. He is a 1954 grad­uate from Notre Dame, where he was a basketball all­American who remains on the Irish career scoring list with 1,227 points. 
A native of St. Louis, Rosenthal later returned to South Bend, where he was chief executive officer of the St. Joseph Bank and Trust Co. for 25 years. However, he never 
see ROSENTHAL/ page 29 



Wednesday, May 3 Saturday, May 6 Thursday, May 4 
Friday, May 5 
ND Softball vs. Detroit, 1 p.m. ND Softball vs. Northwestern, ND Baseball vs. 
ND Lacrosse ar Ohio Stare, 2 p.m. No varsity sports today. 
ND Track & Field ar National ND Baseball at Central Michigan, ND Men's Tennis--NCAA 
3 p.m. Northeastern Illinois, 7 p.m. 
Invitational ar Indianapolis 2p.m. Regionals at Eck Tennis Pavillion 
and Central Collegiates (men) at Notre Dame 









