
Wednes~ay, August 23, 1995• Vol. XXVII No.3 
TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Mixed reactions toward Mod Quad migration 

The Observer/Katie Kroener 

The shuffling of Mod Quad {top) has spread to four of the area's six dorms. Grace Hall is slated to be con• verted into administration office space at the end of this school year, while Flanner Hall (below) will follow in 1997. The residents of Flanner will move into Knott and Siegfried Halls, whose residents will relocate to two new female dorms on West Quad. 
News speeds up work schedule 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST Associate News Ediwr 
The decision to convert Flanner Hall into aca­demic office space has bumped up the Uni­versitY's timetable for building two additional dorms next to Keough and O'Neill Halls on West Quad, aecording to Vice-President of Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara. 
In a letter released yesterday, O'Hara said that Flanner residents will be moved in the fall of 1997 into Knott and Siegfried Halls, whose residents will then occupy the new dorms to be built on the south side of campus. 

Prior to yesterday's actions. the University had · not officially scheduled a completion date for the construction of the third and fourth dorms on West Quad, but general plans provided for a date roughly four years further in the future. The Observer/ Katie Keener 
Three reasons led the University to implement its timetable ahead of time, O'Hara explained in 




Taylor wins Smith Award 
Special to the Observer 
James Taylor, associate dean of the University of ·\~~~~ 
N o t r e Dame's College of Engineering and profes­sor of civil tmgineering and geologi­eal scienees, has been named reeipient of the Institute of 
Transportation Engineers Wilbur S. Smith Distinguished Transportation Educator Award. 
Taylor aceepted this presti­gious award August 6 during the institute's annual meeting in Denver. 
"This is a singular honor, and richly deserved," said the Uni­versity's provost, Timothy O'Meara. "It lends appropriate emphasis to Jim Taylor's 30 years of significant contribu­tions to the theory and practice of transportation engineering." 

In numerous studies for agen­cies including the Federal Highway Administration and the National Research Council's Transportation Research Board, Taylor has investigated design, traffic control and other factors crucial to transportation safety and has identified new methods and procedures for analyzing these factors and their interrelationships. 
In addition to his teaching and research, Taylor was chair of Notre Dame's civil engineer­ing department from 1976 until becoming associate dean in 1982. He served as acting dean of the college from January 1987 until June 1988. 
Before joining the Notre Dame faculty in 1976, Taylor 
was professor of civil engineer­ing at Penn State, at the same time serving as director of the university's bureau of highway traffic and head of the traffic operations and design division of its Pennsylvania Transporta­tion Institute. During the course of his doctoral studies at Ohio State University from 1961-65, he was a research as­sociate in the university's transportation engineering cen­ter. He also was manager of HRB-Singer, Inc.'s environ­mental sciences branch from 1966-68. 
The Wilbur Smith Award, named for a renowned Yale University faculty member and transportation systems innova­tor, is presented annually. Winners are selected by a board representing major gov­
, ernment and professional transportation organizations. 

Switch is 'like family moving into new home' 
By DAVE TYLER 
News Ediwr 
Residents of Flanner, Knott, and Siegfried Halls woke up this morning to find that their "homes away from home" would be changing. 
A letter signed by Vice Presi­dent for Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara informed resi­dents of the three dorms that they will be finding themselves in new living arrangements for the fall 1997 semester. The mim of Flanner will be moved into Siegfried and Knott, and the women of those dorms will move to West Quad, into two new dorms being constructed next to Keough and O'Neill Halls. Those two halls will be home to the men Grace Hall after that high-rise is convert­ed into office space. Flanner, the letter announced, will become home to academic office space. 
The conversion of Flanner Hall had been anticipated since the announcement that its neighbor Grace would be converted, sixteen months ear­lier. The time frame of the moves comes as a bit of a sur­prise. O'Hara told The Observer yesterday that the University's Board of Trustees made the decision to convert Flanner, Siegfried and Grace more quickly than originally planned in July, after consider­ing several factors, including savings on construction costs, efforts to minimize inconve­niences to students and facul­ty, and a worsening shortage of academic office space on eampus. 
"It became crystal clear that it would be wise to move up the timetable," said O'Hara. 
The conversions of Knott and Siegfried mark the first time female dorms have been con­verted in order to preserve gender balances on campus. In 1992 and 1994 respectively, Pangborn and Cavanuagh Halls were transformed from male to female buildings. 
As news of the impending changes spread, residents of the dormitories expressed a variety of feelings about the decision. 
Siegfried rector Sister Mau­reen Minihane said there were mixed emotions in her hall. 
"It didn't come as a total sur­prise," she said. "But it did hit the upperclassmen, because this has been their home." 
Minihane said her residents have been open-minded about the move. "One girl told me she could better relate to the men of Cavanuagh and Pangborn, but others have said they think this could be excit­ing." 
The prospect of the move ex­cites Minihane. "I think we're looking forward to it, like a family moving into a new home," she said. "We have memories for sure, but it's not the building; it's the people that make a place special." 
Flanner rector Father Bill Seetch concurs. "(The move) is going to pinch our current sophomores, but we'll try to make this as easy on everyone as possible," he said. "I think this is something really posi­tive," he said. "We're getting new dorms, with new social space and a bigger chapel. I'm all for it." 
Seetch hopes the men of Flanner will be able to draw on the example of their neigh­bor Grace who will precede them in the moving process. "We'll have their experience to learn from, and hopefully we can use that as a guide towards a smooth transition," he said. 
"I think it's stupid that they 
see REACTION/ page 4 


The Observer/Katie Kroener 

When's Bookstore? 
Students take time out to play basketball before their workload thickens. 
Wednesday, August 23, 1995
page 2 The Observer· INSIDE 
• INSIDE COlUMN 
Death and Revelation 
• WORlD AT A GLANCE 

Americans disagree with Clinton's new tobacco policy 
NEW YORK 
Most Americans oppose some of President Clinton's aggressive efforts to shield teen-agers from tobacco adver­tising and promotion, an Associated Press poll found. 
Fifty-eight percent reject a proposed ban on tobacco brand names on T -shirts or in sporting events such as auto rac­ing's Winston Cup or the Virginia Slims Tennis Tournament. And 53 percent oppose allowing only black-and-white text -no color or pictures -on tobac­co billboards and in cigarette advertise­ments in magazines read by many young people. 
Clinton ordered those restrictions Aug. 10 with the goal of cutting teen-age smoking in half. The tobacco industry immediately challenged him in court. The Food and Drug Administration could begin writing the regulations in November unless stopped by the courts or Congress. 
The poll of 1,007 adults, taken Aug. 16-20, fmds relatively weak support for the premise behind the regulations. Only 40 percent agree unequivocally that the tobacco companies actively use advertis­ing and promotion to try to get young­sters to start smoking. 
Forty-five percent adhere to the tobac­co company argument that ads are mostly· aimed at promoting brands to people who already smoke. 
"The president and the FDA commis­sioner both said very clearly and loudly that they believe this advertising is tar­geted at kids. Well, apparently, the pub­lic is not ready to buy that assertion," said Walker Merryman, vice president of The Tobacco Institute, an industry 

Associated Press Poll 
Public opposes cigarette marketing restrictions 
Q•Do you support or oppose having the government allow only 
• black-and-white text -no color or pictures -on tobacco billboards and in cigarette advertisements in magazines that many young people read? · 
Support: 38% 
Oppose; 53% 
Don't know I no answer: a:f4! 
Q•Do you support or oppose a ban on tobacco brand names • on T-shirts or in sportin!iJ events such as auto racing's Winston Cup or the Vlrgmia Slims Tennis Tournament? 
Support: 37% 
Oppose: 58% 
Don't know I no answer: Iii' 
Q•Do you support or oppose requiring the tobacco Industry to 
• spend $150 million a year on a campaign to discourage teen­age smoking? 
Support: 73% 
Oppose: 24% 
Don't know I noanswer: Ql 
Source: AP national telephone poll of 1,007 adults taken August 16 -20 by ICR SurveyResearch Group of Medta, Pa., part of AUS Consultants. Margin of sampling error is plus or minus 3 percentage points. Sums may not total100 percent due to rounding. 
I have never been very good at putting names with faces. So when I got a letter this summer from my former rector, I wasn't sure how to react. 
The tone of the letter was very somber and serious. Over the sum­


mer months a member of  Michael O'Hara  
the Morrissey community  Viewpoint Editor  
had died tragically in an  
automobile accident.  

Brian Hederman was a freshman last year. He passed away on July 26. 
While I was saddened by the news that someone so young had died, I was also a bit confused. I did not know Brian personally. Because Morrissey is such a large dorm, it is hard to get to know everyone well. I may have met him or had been introduced to him once, but even this I could not recall. 
However, the death of Brian did affect me. When someone your own age dies so tragi­cally, the range of emotions is vast. 
I remember two years ago when Mara Fox was killed in an accident. Mara I knew, she was my dorm little sister. While the events around her death have yet to be resolved, the grief and loss will be with us always. The same is true of Brian's death. The feelings of grief and loss will never be fully resolved; they will always be with us in some form. 
More than anything though, a death like Mara's, nearly two years ago, and Brian's, this past summer, puts new perspective on life. If we all knew the day we would die, I am sure we would live life differently. But we don't. And I do not think we would want to know. Yet we must find some way to cope with the emotions we are feeling. Altering our life perspective is the only solution. 
It seems today in our goal-oriented society that most people are striving for the pot of gold at the end of the rainbow, the hopeful light at the end of the tunnel. I have heard it said that "in so many years I will be ... " 
I am not denigrating this type of thinking, but it se~ms that the sudden and tragic deaths of people shed new light on this line of thought. I am sure both Mara and Brian had dreams, things they were looking forward to, we all do. But, when someone dies, our dreams often receive a blow. 
I reevaluated life when I heard of Brian's death. I needed to understand how I was liv­ing. Am I leading a life worth talking about? If I died tomorrow what would my legacy be? Was I a valuable member of the world com­munity, or even locally for that matter? 
But then my perspective changed again. I recalled all of the people I have known and everything I had done. While nothing was truly miraculous, I had contributed positively to life. I understood that my life had signifi­cance. If I died tomorrow people would grieve, people would understand. I would be JDissed, _as Mara and Brian are missed. 
My faith was restored. My sense of human­ness had changed. While both Mara and Brian are missed, they are still with us and will always be with us. Life is precious and each of us leads a precarious existence. We don't know when we will be taken from this earth, but when we are, if we will be mourned and missed, our lives had meaning. Mara and Brian are missed. Our prayers are with them. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Viewpoint  
Ethan Hayward  Micheal O'Hara  
Mark Huffman  Production  
Sports  Belle Bautista  
Joe Villinski  Michelle Marcotte  
Mike Day  Lab Tech  
Graphics  Micheal Ruma  
Chris Mullins  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
group based in Washington. AP 
Clinton battles new Whitewater 

ON THE SNAKE RNER, WY 
After bumping and bouncing and splishing and splashing on nine miles of stomach-churning Rocky Mountain water, President Clinton decided Tuesday that Whitewater is "better when you have a paddle." The presi­dent, Hillary Rodham Clinton and daughter Chelsea rode the white water of the Snake River in the Jackson Hole 


area, putting the worries of Washington on hold for 90 minutes. At least they tried. Rowing up to the presi­dent's boat, a reporter alluded to the Whitewater contro­versy and asked a question loaded with political double­entendre: "What do you think of Whitewater now?" Clinton laughed, took a stroke with his oar and replied, "Better when you have a paddle."Tim Case, who guided the first rafters, said, "They were willing to paddle. The first lady was a rider. Chelsea was excellent." The first family sped along the river in a five-raft "boatercade." Secret Service agents were in the first four boats, includ­ing the Clintons'. Reporters tagged along in the fifth raft. Earlier, Clinton played 13 holes of golf, pushing his vaca­tion total to 131. On Wednesday he is scheduled to fly back to Washington for memorial services at the chapel at Fort Myer, Va., for three American officials killed in an accident while on a peace mission to Bosnia. 
Another woman to fight Citadel 
CHARLESTON, S.C. 
Another woman wants to take up the fight Shannon Faulkner abandoned when she dropped out of The Citadel. The woman's name w~ll be added on Wednesday or Thursday to the lawsuit challenging the state-run military school's men-only policy, lawyers said. "There is a woman who will step in and take ofT in the same shoes that Shannon stepped out of," attorney Suzanne Coe said Tuesday. Coe refused to name the woman until court papers are filed but said she is a South Carolina college student with Reserve Officer Training Corps experience. U.S. District Judge Weston Houck also will be asked to make the case a class action, which would keep open the possibility other women could become cadets next fall, said another lawyer on the case, Val Vojdik. Ms. Faulkner, 20, battled for 2 1/2 years to become the first woman cadet in the school's 152-year history. But she dropped out after less than a week Friday. saying the emotional stress and isolation were damaging her health. Ms. Faulkner said in an interview with ABC's "PrimeTime Live" that her fight was "2 1/2 years of hell," including physical threats that made her fear for herself and her loved ones. "There's a lot that I'm not telling you about ... And I don't know if I'm ever going to be able to tell anybody but a therapist about that," she said in the ABC interview, scheduled for broadcast Wednesday. 




Tuesday, Aug. 22 Accu-Weather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The Accu-Weather<t!> forecast for noon, Tuesday, Aug. 22. Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 
............... ...&...A..~ 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 

C 1995 Accu-Weather, Inc. PtttSSurtJ ~ ~ ,.-f).
H L ffi I§J !Til 0 ~ E3 ~ ~ c...___!, 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN F-5TDRMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUUY 
Via Associated Press Graph/csNet C 1995 Aocu-Weather, Inc. 

Atlanta 90 72 Dallas 95 75 New Orleans 92 77 Baltimore 91 69 Denver 92 58 New York 85 75 Boston 84 73 Los Angeles BS 69 Philadelphia 86 74 Chicago 83 66 Miami 89 77 Phoenix 106 83 Columbus BO 63 Minneapolis 86 66 St. Louis 91 70 
Wednesday, August 23, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
SMC offers 'Culture Card' 

Special To The Observer 
Events ranging from impro­visational comedy to classic movie favorites to traditional drama highlight three series included in the 1995-96 cultur­al arts season at Saint Mary's College. The John M. Duggan Series, Screen Gems Film Series, and productions spon­sored by the Department of Communication, Dance and Theatre otTer exceptional enter­tainment. All events are open to the public with varying tick­et prices. A new "Culture Card" worth close to $50 in special benefits is being intro­duced this year for only $5. (The card is free to ticket sub­scribers of the John M. Duggan Series.) 
The John M. Duggan Series, which is the centerpiece of the college's cultural season, fea­tures national artists. The 1995-96 season includes a Tony Award -winning drama, multi­media dance performance, im­p"rovisational comedy, classic jazz experience and a unique setting a W.B. Yeats' poetry to song. 
On Sept. 29, the national touring production of "Children of a Lesser God" will be pre­sented simultaneously in sign language and spoken English. This moving story explores the relationship between a deaf woman and her speech teacher, both victims of their own backgrounds and cultures. "Jan Erkert and Dancers," a powerful modern dance troupe which combines dance with text, film, sound and theatrical images, will perform on Nov. 3. 
"Chicago City Limits," a na­tional tour by the improvisa­tiona! comedy company, will appear on-campus on Feb. 10. · "Kilkarten Road: In the Deep Heart's Core" is a mystic cabaret of Celtic music, inter­preted through classical, jazz and traditional Irish sounds. Included in the March 23rd performance will be original song setting of some of W.B. Yeat' s poetic masterpieces as well as selections from essays and autobiographical works. On April 19, the "Butch Thompson Trio" will explore the vitality and variety of the early jazz tradition from the graceful ragtime of Scott Joplin to the roaring piano of Fats Waller. 
All Duggan Series perfor­mances will be held in Moreau Center/O'Laughlin Auditorium. Subscriptions are $45 for adults, $40 for senior citizens, $25 for members of the Saint Mary's community, and $20 for students. The subscription price provides a 15 percent dis­count off the regular, single ticket price. It also entitles the patron to a Culture Card which includes close to fifty dollars worth of benefits such as a free regular-sized soda at each of the Duggan events, two Screen Gems tickets for the price of one, and more. Tickets are on sale at the college box office, lo­cated in O'Laughlin Auditorium. Box office hours are 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday. For more information, or to order using Visa, Discover, or MasterCard, call 219-284-4626. 
"Horse Feathers," the Marx Brothers' crazed spoof of col­lege life, opens the third season of classic films in the Saint Mary's Screen Gems on Tues­day, Sept. 12. Five other fea­tures are included in the se­ries. "The Snake Pit" (Oct. 10), starring Olivia de Haviland, was one of the first movies to deal intelligently with the subjects of mental illness, institutionaliza­tion and recovery. "Showboat" (Nov. 14), the Jerome Kern-Os­car Hammerstein musical, is highlighted by such compelling solo performances as Paul Robeson's rendition of "Old Man River" and Helen Morgan's unforgettable "Bill." 
"charade" (Feb 6), an elegant comedy-mystery with a superb cast, features Cary Grant and Audrey Hepburn. "Cape Fear" (March 5), the original 1962 version, stars Robert Mitchum as a sadistic villain out for re­venge against lawyer Gregory Peck and his family. "Little Women" (April 16), another original (1933), stars Katherine Hepburn ideally cast as the spirited Jo March. 
All films are shown Tuesdays at 1:30 p.m. and 7:30 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. Tick­ets are $2 for adults and cam­pus community members, $1 for senior citizens and students, and are available at the door. Series subscriptions are also available. 
The Department of Commu­nication, Dance and Theatre will present three major pro­ductions in this season's dy­namic line-up. "Steel Magno­lias," the popular drama exam­ining the friendships among six diverse women, opens the sea­son Thursday through Sunday, Nov. 99-12. The play involves six women who gather at a local beauty shop to exchange recipes, secrets, hopes and fears. 

Special to The Observer 
Mrs. Edith Kline, widow of the former Notre Dame head baseball coach "Jake" Kline '21, was presented with a repli­ca of the "Jake Kline Field" sign that will be placed at the front entrance of the new Frank Eck Baseball Stadium at the University of Notre Dame. 
Making the presentation was Chuck Lennon '61, executive director of the Notre Dame Alumni Association and a for­mer player and coach under Kline. Assisting with the pre­sentation was former player and current mayor of South Bend, Joe Kernan '68. 
The ceremony was held July 29, 1995, in conjunction with the annual "Over 40" Kline Baseball Tournament. of 

4 Goon REASONS To CALL THE HuDDLE FOR DELIVERY 
r ----------, r----------,
$5 DEAL $4 DEAL
I I 1 I 
Any Large 14" Pizza Only $5 Large 14" Cheese Pizza Only $4 

I I I I
The Best Pizza at the Best Price Now, That's a Deal! 

Call 1-6902 Call 1-6902 

I I I I 
COUPON EXPIRES 12/16/95 

-1 -1
COUPON EXPIRES 12/16/95
I-----------I----------­
$10 DEAL DOUBLE DEAL
I I I I 
2 Large 14" Unlimited Topping Pizzas You get 2 Large 14" 1 item 
I

I 
and a 2-liter Coke Product Only $10 I Pizzas for Only $9 I Call 1-6902 Call 1-6902 
I I I I 
COUPON EXPIRES 12/16/95 COUPON EXPIRES 12/16/95
.J

L L .J 
CALL THE HUDDLE AT 1-6902 
We'II meet or beat any competitors coupon or deal, just call us and ask. We Deliver 7 days a week-lunch, dinner and late nite. 
page4 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, August 23, 1995 
she said. "Conversion of Grace influx of students. The Oak 
and Flanner and relocation of Room may be moved to an ad­
the residents of these halls into dition at the rear of the building 
Durenberger admits Schedule 
to minor accusations 
By PHILIP BRASHER 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON He was denounced by the 
U.S. Senate, driven into debt, stripped of his law license and forced out of office. Now for­mer Sen. Dave Durenberger has finally settled his long ethics case by admitting he committed a crime. 
In a deal with prosecutors, the Minnesota Republican stood before a federal judge Tuesday and pleaded guilty to five misdemeanor charges that he stole public funds by abus­ing his congressional expense account. Sentencing was set for Nov. 30. 
Durenberger, 61, said he ex­pects to get probation. Under federal sentencing guidelines, he could get as much as 10 months in prison or as little as four months of probation. He also could be fined as much as $500,000. 
The settlement allows Durenberger to avoid the stig­ma of a felony conviction and ends the case in time for his wedding this weekend to a for­mer staff member. 
It also saves both the gov­ernment and him the expense of a trial. Durenberger esti­mates he has already incurred $1.5 million in legal fees. 
"Both personally and profes­sionally, this is a matter I had to get behind me," Durenberger said after enter­ing the plea at a brief hearing Tuesday morning. 
Durenberger, who was to have gone on trial this fall on felony charges, had always in­sisted that he committed no crime. 
But as part of the plea bar­gain, Durenberger admitted to the government's allegations 
Reaction 
continued from page 1 
spent all that money rehabilitating the two dorms a few years ago, and now they're going to convert them," said Flanner senior Dan Murray. "It seems like a waste." 
Others were indifferent to the announcement. "It doesn't 
that he improperly collected $3,825 in Senate reimburse­ment for nights he spent in a Minneapolis condominium he owned. 
U.S. District Judge Stanley Harris told Durenberger that the plea bargain was an "emi­nently sensible compromise." 
Prosecutors "get all their law enforcement goals satisfied, all of them," said Abbe Lowell, a former federal prosecutor. "They get public scrutiny (of Durenberger), label the former public official corrupt and get about the same penalty as a felony." 
The misdemeanor charges carried a maximum sentence of five years in prison, while the original felony charges car­ried a maximum of 10 years. 
But the plea bargain does nothing to lighten Durenberg­er's penalty because of the way sentences are calculated under the complicated federal guide­lines judges must follow, said the Justice Department's pros­ecutor, Ray Hulser. 
"The sentence will be exactly the same as if he had pleaded guilty to the (felony) indict­ment," Hulser said. 
Durenberger and his fiancee, Susan Bartlett Foote, held hands in the front row of the courtroom before the hearing. Afterwards, she told a reporter: "He's happy." 
Foote is a Washington attor­ney who was his senior legisla­tive assistant on health policy during his last two years in of­fice. It is his third marriage. 
Durenberger served in the Senate from 1978 until last year, when he retired rather that seek re-election. 
The Senate denounced Durenberger in 1990 for the 1987 condo deal and other fi­nancial improprieties, includ­ing a book contract he used. 
really matter to me, because I'll probably move off-campus anyway." said Knott Hall sophomore Kristin Ahasic, a member of the first class to be directly affected by the move. 
"I was kind of surprised and disappointed," said Flanner sophomore Mike Underwood. "I thought we'd make it through four years here." 
INDIANAUNIVERSITY 
SOUTH BEND 
CONTINUING EDUCATION 
English as a Second language 
INTENSIVE PROGRAM OF STUDY 
• 
Improve active use of written and spoken English 

• 
Understand verbal and non-verbal differences in communication between cultures 

• 
Develop and improve listening, speaking, reading and writing skills 

• 
Receive individualized attention 


August 28 through Dec. 8 
8:30 a.m.-12:30 p.m. Monday through Friday Call 237-4261 for information 
continued from page 1 
her letter. 
• First, the need for more academic office space is in­creasing, especially in Res­burgh Library. 
"There is a growing need on the part of Hesburgh Library to recapture library space that currently houses non-library units," O'Hara said. "Conversion of Flanner into an office building will help to re­solve this and other academic space needs." 
Currently, about one-fifth of library space is devoted to non­library use. 
• Second, architects of Keough and O'Neill Halls told the University that if all four dorms were built at the same time, it would realize "signifi­cant" savings. 
Specific financial figures were not released. 
• Third, the University felt that the quality of student life on West Quad would be dimin­ished if all residence halls on the quad were not completed at about the same time. 
"It became increasingly clear that it would be desirable ... to minimize the disruption associ­ated with construction and to create a quadrangle that looks finished in appearance," O'Hara said. 
The eventual conversion of Flanner had been anticipated since the University's decision in 1994 to convert neighboring Grace Hall into an administra­tive office building. The two halls, both completed in 1969, are the only high-rise residence halls on campus. 
The University has stated in the past that students living in considerably large residence halls is not the ideal situation, a sentiment that O'Hara consid­ered in her letter. 
"Men currently are concen­trated in disproportionate num­bers in large residence halls," 

your Individual etrertat~~a and wdk-, we're -.to c:retrte .,. IndiVIdualized •tudlf plnn that eneuree your suooee• on test day. .· ..,._....
3. Kaplan'& network of over 150 lnt.erac:tllle study c:em.rs &1"1188 you day-In, day-out pa...onallzed attention. We're here wben you need us -not just at claN time. 
1·800-KAP·TEST 
KAPLAN 


four intermediate size halls will result in a better overall config­uration of male residence halls on campus." 
Moving the women of Siegfried and Knott to the south side of campus will also pre­serve an equitable male-female ratio on both sides of campus. 
The two women's dorms, as yet unnamed, will flank Keough and O'Neill on the east and west. Construction is scheduled to begin as soon as a benefactor is found to underwrite the pro­ject. 
Details of the construction of the women's dorms were not released, but if they are similar to Keough and O'Neill, several new amenities will be included. 
Slated to open in August 1996, the two new men's dorms will include more social areas and a first floor room to be used as a computer lab, ac­cording to Mike Smith, director of facilities engineering for the University. 
"There are going to be social spaces in each section on each floor," Smith said, "as well as an overall dorm social space." 
Each dorm room will also be wired for direct connection with the campus computer network, an improvement that is grad­ually being installed in the presently existing dorms. Sizes of the rooms in Keough and O'Neill Halls will remain consis­tent with rooms in other dorms. 
The exterior of the residences will maintain the architecture style of that area of campus, Smith said. 
"Each dorm will have sloped slate roofs like Alumni and Dil­lon, but without the detail," he said. "It will be a modern building that is still sensitive to the area in which it's built." 
O'Hara's letter confirmed that 
the addition of the two dorms to 
the south side of campus will 
also cause some changes to the 
physical structure of South Din­
ing Hall in order to handle the 
here's w 
1. Kaplan'e teache,. are dyaamlo, upellenced T"-Y',. why our oa-will make you a U.t 
2. Kaplan'& customized prep &y&tem Is truly 
in order to create more space for the dining hall. 
"Something is defmitely going to be added to the back of the building," Ronald Athey, assis­tant director of food services, said. "We want to make the back cosmetically beautiful for the students who will live be­hind it." 
The section of Dorr Road from South Dining Hall to the main gate will be permanently closed so that the new dorms are not separated from the rest of campus. Service drives will remain open to allow delivery trucks to reach the dining hall. 
A new road will be built that will lead from a point south of the Morris Inn, along the west side of the new dorms, to a point behind Pangborn Hall. 
If you see news happen, call The Observer! 631-5323 
,y 

Wednesday, August 23, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Computer glitches contribute to plane crashes 
By FRED BAYLES 
Associated Press 
Four times this year, the phrase "NOT UPDATING RADAR AND TIME" has flashed across radar screens at the FAA's air traffic control center in Chicago. Then, just as sud­denly, symbols for hundreds of planes carrying thousands of lives to family, vacations and business have wavered and vanished. 
"There's no way to relate to what happens next," says Ken Kluge, a controller at the Au­rora, Ill., facility. "It's total chaos. The minute the com­puter flops, your heart jumps into overdrive." 
Such failures have become common to the nation's frayed air traffic control system. The network has experienced 21 failures since April. caused mostly by computer break­downs and other equipment malfunctions. The New York center alone has had three fail­ures. 
The breakdowns have not re­sulted in any crashes. But con­trollers have been forced to rely on backup systems that aren't as sophisticated. And in some cases, they have lost all radio contact with planes in the air. 
"The immediate problem is aging computers, some of which have 1950s vacuum-tube technology. Maintenance on key computers is delayed for fear of damaging crumbling compo­nents for which there are no replacements. 
"We're cannibalizing every­thing we have," says Robert Valone, the director of the Fed­eral Aviation Administration's Office of Air Traffic Systems Development. "Th~:: technicians prefer not to touch the equip­ment for fear something will break." 
But the blame goes deeper. These geriatric computers were to have earned retirement two 
The Observer 
is now hiring for the following paid positions: 

Assistant Accent Editor Accent Copy Editor 
Bring Personal Statement to Krista Nannery in 314 LaFortune 
Calll-4540 for more information 

Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
announces 
Opening Reception and Auditions for Theatrical Productions 
All persons interested in information about theatre curriculum or productions are invited 
Reception: Wednesday, August 23, 6:00 PM Washington Hall--Laboratory Theatre (North Entrance) 
Auditions for The Imaginary Invalid by Moliere and Six Degrees ofSeparation by John Guare Wednesday, August 23 post reception and Thursday, August 24 
Call 631-5956 or 631-7054 for details 
wheel could come off at any time," says Mark Scholl, a Chicago air traffic controller and local president of the Na­tional Air Traffic Controllers Association. 
The past four months have been a nightmare of glitches and shutdowns around the na­tion's system of 350 regional and local traffic control facili­ties: 
-South Florida's new radar system fails in thunderstorms. After several incidents, FAA of­ficials cautiously announced they seemed to have fixed the problem by disabling a new piece of software. Three weeks later the radar failed again, blacking out a 400,000-square­mile area for 1 1/2 hours . 
-Power failures at the Fre­mont, Calif., center knocked out ground control for Northern California, Nevada and 18 mil­lion square miles of the Pacific. Pilots, out of contact with the ground for 15 minutes, were on their own. At least two close calls were reported. 
-Computer crashes have become a way of life for con­trollers at centers outside Chicago and New York. Flights are diverted from blacked-out areas and held on the ground for hours. 
The Air Transport Association estimates such delays cost the industry $3.5 billion in wasted fuel and under-used aircraft. 
"There are contingency plans FAA has to keep the system safe. But there is an enormous cost to us and our customers," says Jack Ryan, vice president for air traffic management for the airline trade group. 
FAA officials blame much of their troubles on 30-year-old IBM 9020e computers that run displays in Chicago, New York, Dallas-Fort Worth, Washington and Cleveland. The downtime of these computers has more than doubled since 1990. 
Controllers rely on these sys­tems to track the identity and position of hundreds of com­mercial flights traversing hun­dreds of thousands of miles of airspace. When the primary system fails, backups take over, but often crucial altitude and route information about the blips doesn't reappear on the screen. 
Controllers must then scram­ble to put the information back into the system, using slips of paper with the flight's planned route to identify the blips on the screen. 
Other critical features are missing when the backups kick in, including systems that warn controllers when two planes are approaching each other or when they are drifting too low. 
Key 
& Cause 
Oakland Aug.9,1995 
Sept. 14, 1994 Personnel error 433 delays 1 hour, 15 minutes 
May 17,1995 Software and memory problems 234 delays 1 hour, 5 minutes 
July 17, 1995 Memory problems 161 delays• 44 minutes 
July 23, 1995 ... Hardware and 
software problems • 28 delays • 25 minutes 
July 24, 1995 & Hardware problems • 42 delays • 122 hours, 
34 minutes 

AprilS, 1995.. Engine generator 
failed• 189 delays • 36 minutes 
May 19, 1995 .. Personnel error
• 83 delays • 2 hours, 30 minutes 
May 25,1995 Personnel error 485 delays 5 hours, 49 minutes 


333 delays 1 hour, 18 minutes 
years ago, replaced with a state-of-the-art system. 
Bureaucratic indecision, long procurement delays and the hugely complex software in­volved forced FAA officials to scrap the original plans in favor of a simpler system that won't be in place until next decade. 
The original price tag of $12 billion has tripled to $37 billion, including temporary fixes and the cost of developing the sys-


July 19, 1995 
Hardware problem 
6 delays 
31 minutes 
tern that was eventually junked. The 10 years estimated to change the system has doubled to 20. 
Bob Levin, an assistant direc­tor at Congress' General Ac­counting Office, calls it "a disaster and a disgrace." 
"The implications are sub­stantial. You're seeing them every time we have an outage that would have been pre­vented had the system been 
AP/Karl Gude, Eileen Glanton 

replaced as scheduled," Levin says. 
No quick fixes are in sight. Five key control centers will have to nurse old computers another two years. 
· Until then costly and danger­ous failures will plague air trav­elers as controllers struggle with a system held together by electronic Band-Aids. 
"It's like going down the highway knowing your steering 
EARN CASH by DONATING 
You could earn: 
$30°0after your first plasma donaUon! 
$1500  if you donate alone  
+$  sao  if you show college I.D. (first visit)  
+$1 000  per person nyou recruit someone and they donate  

$30°0 TOTAL! Help Us Save Lives Must be 18 years old; proof of current address with photo I.D. COME TO: HOURS: AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL M-F: 9-6 515 LINCOLNWAY WEST SAT: 8-5 SOUTH BEND, IN 46601-1117 234-6010 
-------~----~-------~­
page 6 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, August 23, 1995 
Troops force out Rwandans Bombing disrupts 
By CHEGE MBITIRU 
Associated Press 
GOMA, Zaire 

Setting fire to huts and loot­ing aid camps, Zairian soldiers forced thousands of refugees back to Rwanda on Tuesday. Another 60,000 refugees fled into the hills to escape the ex­pulsions. 
U.N. spokesman Ron Red­mond said the removal of refugees from camps in eastern Zaire could turn into a disaster if not stopped. Despite protests from Rwanda and the United Nations, Zaire gave no indica­tion it was going to slow the ex­odus that sent 10,000 Rwan­dans across the border Tues­day. 
Zaire began expelling refugees Saturday, but Tues­day's operation was by far the largest. Officials gave no expla­nation, but Zaire appeared to be pressuring the United Nations to find another country to take the refugees. 
The central African nation borders nine neighbors and has 
1.8 million refugees, more than any other country in the world. 
At Goma. on the northern end of Lake Kivu, about 750,000 Rwandan refugees had been living in sprawling camps before the expulsions. 
.Almost all the refugees, both those from Rwanda and Bu­rundi, are ethnic Hutus. Nearly 2 million Rwandan Hutus fled their homeland when Tutsi-led rebels seized power from the Hutu-dominated government in July 1994. The rebels took over after an estimated 500,000 peo­ple, mostly Tutsis, were killed by Hutu-led militias. 
Among the refugees are sol­diers, militiamen and officials of the former government who are blamed for planning and carrying out the massacre. Rwanda's government has charged that the Hutu militants were rearming in the refugee camps and preparing to attack Rwanda. 
Many of the refugees feared retaliation for the genocide if they return. The Rwandan gov­ernment was screening those who returned, searching for the perpetrators of last year's killings. 
Gunfire sounded Tuesday morning at the Goma camps, 
U.N. refugee spokesman Peter Kessler reported. It was not immediately clear who was shooting or if there were any 
Israel-PLO peace talks 


By DIANNA CAHN Associated Press 
JEHUSALEM 
Following a suicide bombing that killed five people, the pres­ident said today that the lsrael­PLO peace talks are not work­ing, and the two sides should sit down immediately to decide the final fate of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip. 
But the talks, suspended Monday after the explosio·n, re­sumed today. 
An Israeli official who spoke on condition of anonymity said negotiators would hold "around-the-clock" sessions in an effort to complete an agree­ment before September 24, the beginning of the Jewish New Year. 
President Ezer Weizman told the Maariv newspaper that the current strategy of talking peace amid violence, while
Refugees in Zaire t= 2oo.ooo 

leaving the big questions unan­Of 1.2 million refugees, an estimated 50,000 refugees died of cholera and other swered, is failing. 
diseases in Goma alone. In addition to 1 million Rwandans, there are 72,000 from "Where is it written that con­Burundi. Other refugees have come from Angola, Sudan and Uganda. tinuing the talks with the Pales­Current refugee status tinians is the main thing? Are we doing enough to fight ter­
IIGoma Utj f1 Bukavu tj il Uvlra j 

ror? Is now the time to leave all 
Zairian soldiers marched an One group ol3,000 Many of the Uvira refugees came estimated 11 ,000 refugees refuQees was < from Burundi. The forced repatriation
toward their border Tuesday. mov1ng toward lhe already has left up to 60,000 peopleGunfire and fires have been border followed by without food or safe water. They have reported at the refugee another group of fled into the hills fearing genocide if 

The Observer 
camps. about 8,000. 
casualties. 
Zairian troops used trucks, buses and even private vehicles to ferry refugees from the Mu­gunga camp near Goma to the Rwandan border, said U.N. refugee spokesman Chris Bow­ers. 
Refugees complained about being beaten by soldiers and having their belongings stolen, and smoke billowed from Mu­gunga after soldiers set fire to some huts to encourage refugees to leave. 
Aid workers at Mugunga said Zairian soldiers looted the camp Monday night, Redmond said. There were unconfirmed reports of refugee women being raped. Many aid workers, fear­ing violence, left the camps around Goma on Tuesday.' 
Bowers said more than 10,000 refugees from three ar­eas in Zaire -Goma, Bukavu and Uvira -were sent across the border Tuesday, but he did not have figures for each bor­the major cities in the West Bank?" Weizman asked. 

"In my view, we have to move straight to the final set­tlement," said Weizman, who has no policy-making power. 
Weizman did not say what sort of final settlement he would like to see take shape. But his escalating criticism of the peace process has heart­ened Israelis who believe the temporary solution proposed in the Israel-PLO accord is too complicated and exposes the 140,000 Jewish settlers in the West Bank and Gaza to danger. 
Under the agreement, Israeli troops will pull out of West Bank cities in phases without dismantling Jewish settle­ments, and Palestinians will hold elections. 
Left to future negotiations is possible Palestinian statehood and other tough issues, includ­ing the final borders, the future of Jerusalem, the return of Palestinian refugees and the status of Jewish settlements. 
Weizman said he was not convinced that Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat could con­tain the anti-Israel violence. 
they return home. 
APfWm. J. Castello 
der region. 
"Let them go," said one Zairian immigration official who refused to give his name. "They have been killing us. They have been stealing from us. They are more than we are." 
Most of the refugees at Goma were women, elderly men and children who seemed resigned to being forced back to Rwanda. They carried plastic buckets of water, straw sleep­ing mats and bundles of food. 

is now hiring for the following paid positions: 
Associate News Editor Assistant News Editor Chief Copy Editor Copy Editor 
Interested? Submit a brief resu'!le and personal statement to Dave Tyler by Friday, Augest 25th. 
Questions call Dave at 1-5323 

The Notre Dame Glee Club:if'~ Announces AUDITIONS 

for the 1995-95 School 
Year 

rJoln one of fhe naflon's finest All­Male Choral Ensembles as we Celebrate 80 years of Musical Excellence af Notre Dame 
Actlvltln include: 

U.S. Tours during Fall &. Spring Breaks EUROPEAN tour -Summer of I990 Four MaJor on-Campus Concerts each year 
n g 
F 
I 
•e 
h 

m 
8 
n 
A 
r 
8 

Be a part ofa Notre Dame Singing Tradition! 
AUDITIONS 
EXTENDED! 
CALL PROFESSOR DAN STOWE 631-9457 

VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, August 23, 1995 page 7 
THE OBSERVER 

NoTRE DAME OF!'ICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
John Lu= 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Elizabeth Regan Joseph Riley 

Nnvo Editor ................................ David Tyler Advenising Manager...........................John Potter Viewpoint F.ditor ..........•....... Michael O'llara Ad Design Manager ....................... Ryan Malaytcr Spono Editor ............................. Mike NorbUt Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ·-···• .................. Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor.................................. Rob Finch Observer Marketing Director.......... Pete Coleman Saint Mary's Editor ..........•......... Pani Carson Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Maty's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either instirulion. The news is reported as accuratc:ly and objectivdy as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commemaru:s, letters and Inside Columns presem the vit:Ws of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Ohserv<r. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and ro all readers. The fret expression of varying opinions through lerrcrs is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General1nformation 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
THE MARK or THE BEAST 

• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Contract with America? 
Biblical citations point to a Jesus 
. 

who was anti-family 
Dear Editor: 
T
he Christian Coalition's "Contract with the American 
Family" is a Big Ue misrepresentation of Jesus Christ's 
scriptural teaehings whieh nre nctually quite anti-family. 
In Matthew 10:35-38 Jesus said he hnd come to bring intra­
family discord and urged people to leave their families and 
follow him. In Luke 14:26 he demanded that his disciples 
"hate" their families. In Matthew 19:29 he urged his followers 
to "forsake" their families_ 
In Matthew 8:21·22 he denied a disciple's request for family 
leave to bury his father. Jesus curtly replied, "Follow me; and 
let the dead bury their dead." 
In Mark 3:31-35 and in Luke 8:20-21 Jesus snubbed hls bio­
logical family who had come to see him. He claimed that the 
assembled crowd, rather than hls mother and brothers, was 
his family. 
Y
es. Jesus had brothers -and sisters -as furthe.r evi· 
• deuced in Matthew 13:55-56, Mark 6:3, John 7:3, 7:5, Galatians 1:19. and Acts 1:14. Many Christians are so blinded by tho doctrine of the perpetual virginity of Mary and the ideal of sexless "abstinent" Josephite marriage that they are too embarrassed to bring themselves to admit this. 
Partly based on the false prophecy that the Second Coming was imminent (Matthew 16:28, Mark 9:1, and Luke 9:27, 21 :32). early Christians such as St. Paul (1 Corinthians 7:7·9, 29, 32-34) frowned upon marriage but patronizingly granted "permission" to those lacking self-control since it was "better to marry than to burn." 
This anti-sex, anti-marriage ascetic bias lives on today in strict celibacy requirements for the ruling hierarchy of the largest Christian sect, the Romnn Catholic Church. Clearly they believe that having a family is detrimental to religlom~ life. 
JIM SENYSZ¥N Highland Park, NJ 

Prisoner asks for justice 
Editor's Note: The following is a letter by a prisoner in a Michigan Correctional Facility. This letters runs as an excep­tion to a standing rule regard­ing such letters. 
Dear Editor: 
T
he most perverted 'justice' system in the United States belongs to Governor Engler, State Senators Van Regenmorter and Hoffman and their politically correct cohorts. 
Over the past three years, the overstuffed Legislature passed 400+ 'new' crime bills, averag­ing one million dollars each to enact. They have not prevent­ed one single crime! However, they have closed many schools early and cut funding to col­leges, refusing to invest in edu­cation, a major antidote to crime. 
Building six new prisons to hold almost 6,000 men double­bunked, they held 2,000+ inmates in 1989 past their min­imum sentences to fill the new prisons. They didn't fill them until 1993, costing taxpayers $570,000+ each annually to keep them mothballed. In 1994, a gubernatorial election year, they held 10,000+ inmates past their minimum sentences, yet cry for 3,000 new beds! 
They claim they spend $25,000 per prisoner annually, yet have a $1.3 billion 'operat­ing budget' for 39,000 prison­ers. Divide those two figures. Do you get $25,000? Any busi­nessperson who had only to worry about an 'operating bud­get' like this would be a mil­lionaire! Engler, et. al. does not even include Corrections' portion of $80 million a month in retirement benefits. Since MDOC is a service business, multiply the 'operating budget' by a factor of '2' for an esti­

mate of the real budget, then divide that number by 39,000. 
A
s with o t h e r recent dicta­tors, it's evi­dently part of the "Big Three's" (not Ford-GM­Chrysler) 'final solution' to force inmates to drink water so contaminat­ed it causes early deaths. Reports from officials in the Federal case for 'restoration' of the worst, Jackson Prison, reveal concen­trations of ben­zene, toluene, 
'Jt's evidently part of the Big Three's (not Ford-GM-Chrysler} 
final solution to force inmates to drink water so contaminated it causes early deaths. Reports from officials 
in the Federal case for restoration of the worst... reveal concen­trations of benzene, toluene, paradichloro­benzene, and other chemical salts long­since proven fatal from extended intake.' 
with tax dol­lars by the State's Attorney General. 
If ever charged, they receive insignificant, 
· discriminato­ry sentences, while ordi­nary taxpay­er-citizens are sent to prison. They boast of two totally inane, un-American laws; the 650-Life law for drugs, and the Criminal Sexual Conduct law which allows allegations alone to con-

GARRY TRUDEAU
• 000NESBURY 
'31.JR& t7D8..4CC05A 90U7HERN ~&,8UT YaJVE AU?eA/7Y IURmENOff 7Ht90lJ1H IN'%! SO YCV ~UP'(()()R. quPR:K( IN 7HE OTH£R q[,lt7"&3f!Y/aJI<.ING 
EltJU?AN!?PREGICENTIAL-! 

The trio allows Criminal Sexual Conduct charges against their wardens, staff, judges, elected officials and other gov­ernment employees to be swept under the rug, defended by law 
paradichlorobenzene, and viet. 
chemical salts long-since proven fatal from extended intake. 
Such problems are at every Michigan prison not on city water. Even those that switched have not replaced the piping which continues to leech contaminates into the drinking water. Officers carry in their own drinks, and inmates are forced to purchase potable drinking water; most cannot. 
W
illiam Pitt, the Great Commoner, wrote "necessity is the plea for every infringement of human liberty; it is the argument of tyrants; it is the creed of slaves." 
Hello slaves. 
J,H_ BEEMAN 
A-217141 
St. Louis, MI 

• QUOTE Of THE DAY 
"The body, she says, is 
subject to the forces of gravity. But the soul is ruled by levity, pure .." 
-Saul Bellow 

--------~-------~ 
ACCE-NT 
Wednesday, August 23, 1995 

Try an old standby: Ham and Cheese on a 6" hero 
Subway $2.59 

It's the Chicken Strips Kid Meal. Comes with fries, drink, treat and a prize! Is this a great country or what? 
Dairy Queen $2.59 


Try a large yogurt during lunch hours, if you don't mind eating frozen yogurt as a meal. Fat free! 
I Can't Believe It's Yogurt $2 
~,r 

1/2 pint of beans of choice plus nachos with cheese It will fill you up, plus the beans are fat free. 
Cactus Jack's $1.75 + $1.55 
ometimes, you just can't make it to the din­
ing hall. And a lot of the time, well, you 
wouldn't be surprised if there were moths 
:1 in your wallet. So we searched the sur­
-__ /' rounding countryside for cheap, appealing meaTs you can get for a song. We picked places rel­atively close by that offered take-out as an option. Prices don't include taxes or drinks, except where noted. (Drink water, it's cheaper.) We highly rec­ommend the kiddie meal at any establishment that offers one. (Tell them the kid is at home with the babysitter.) We set out with three bucks in our pockets and growling stomachs and here's what we brought back. 
Go for the Whopper Combo. You get a Whopper (what else?), medium fries and a medium drink all at a whopping low price. They've got other cheap meal deals, too. 
Burger King $2.99 

Everything is cheap here, but try the Light Burrito Supreme with some nachos for a tasty, satisfying treat. 
Taco Bell $2.18 

Yum, yum. Cheese ravioli with meat sauce! And if you eat there, they give you more breadsticks than you could eat in a year ... for free! 
Fazoli's $2.99 

Wednesday, August 23, 1995 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS page 9 
• BASKETBALL • BASEBALL 
Heat may deal draft picks for Riley's rights 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 

The battle over the rights to Pat Riley may end with the Miami Heat giving the New York Knicks one of its two first­round 1996 draft picks. 
Two Knicks officials indicated the team would be willing to settle its tampering claim against the Heat before NBA commissioner David Stern issues his ruling late this week OT early next week, The Miami Herald reported Tuesday. 
The Sun-Sentinel of Fort Lauderdale also reported that both teams had agreed a first­round draft choice would be conveyed to the Knicks when the Heat signs Riley. The Sun­Sentinel said the Knicks are seeking either the Heat's own 1996 first-round selection or the one the team acquired from Atlanta in a November trade. 
Riley walked away from his job as the Knicks' coach in June with one year remaining on his contract. He has indicat­ed he expects to coach in Miami this season. 
Dave Wohl, executive vice president of the Heat, said the team will not send Glen Rice or any other player to the Knicks as compensation for allowing Riley to coach this year. 
"If there were any compensa­tion issues, there would be no players involved," Wohl said. "We like our team. We like our players." 
He would not say what the Heat is willing to give the Knicks, but cash and draft picks appear to be the only op­tions. 
Wohl is under a gag order from Stern stemming from the tampering charge. He refused to comment on an earlier report that Riley would be given a five-year contract worth an estimated $35 million to coach the Heat. 
Riley has a 756-299 record in 13 years as an NBA coach. He won four championships in nearly nine years as coach of the Los Angeles Lakers. 

Jones' defense propels Braves to win 
By MICHAEL A. LUTZ feet and threw out Eusebio at six innings and struck out Associated Press first base as the runners three. 
steamed around the bases. Mark Wohlers pitched the HOUSTON "It was a great play, it saved ninth and converted his team­Chipper Jones has a reputa­the ball game," Atlanta manag­record 19th consecutive save tion as a defensive liability. It's er Bobby Cox said. "That's as opportunity, retiring Craig 
one he hopes he changed 

good a play as I've seen in a Shipley on a grounder to end Tuesday night. long time. If Chipper doesn't the game with runners on first 
Jones had a two-run single in make that play, we lose." and third. Atlanta's five-run fifth but was Ryan Klesko had a three-run Still, it was Jones' play that 
more elated about his spectacu­double in the fifth inning as the was acknowledged by both lar diving catch that stopped a Braves extended the Astros' teams as the turning point. Houston rally and led the losing streak to six games. "Chipper made a great play
Braves to a 6-4 victory Tuesday 

Houston also lost six in a row on that ball," Asttos managernight. 
June 6-11. Terry Collins said. "They"That's the best play I've Doug Brocail (4-2) retired the showed what you can do with made at third base," said 
first two batters in the fifth two-out hits. We didn't." Jones, a former shortstop. "It's before Marquis Grissom singled 
still a new position for me. to center and stole second base. Derek Bell got the first hit off 
Hopefully that will eliminate Jeff Blauser walked and Jones Avery with a single to center in any doubt that I can play and 

drove in the runners with a sin­the first inning. He stole second that I'm a defensive liability. gle to right. and scored on the same play"I sort of had that label in the After Fred McGriff walked and when Avery's wild throw to minor leagues. Maybe this will David Justice was hit by a pitch first base went into right field. 
help eliminate that doubt." 

to load the bases, Klesko's dou­David Justice tied it for the 
The Astros were charging in ble to the left-field wall scored Braves in the second with his the seventh inning after scoring all three runners. 18th homer. two runs on a pinch-hit double 
"Klesko's been good all sea­Avery got the ftrst two batters by Derrick May. They had the son except for the first two or out in the third inning before bases loaded with two outs 
three weeks," Cox said. "He's Brian Hunter tripled to the cen­when Tony Eusebio hit a hard been on fire lately but every­ter field wall and scored on 
grounder down the third-base body knows he can hit." Craig Biggio's single. line. Steve Avery (6-9), who had Home plate umpire GerryJones dove behind the bag won only one of his last five Davis ejected Astros managerand stabbed the ball, got to his 
decisions, allowed five hits over Terry Collins in the fifth inning. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day &om 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center.
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
PT babysitter lor great 10 yr old  Student sub-leasing room In  Wanted:  NOTRE DAME season tickets  $$$$$$$$$$MONEY$$$$$$$$$$  
NOTICES  home schooler-lem. Flex hrs $4.Must like cats. 287-3315.  Lafayette Square Townhomes. 1 mile from campus, just remodeled,  USCTIX Call George @3675.  wanted. Top dollar paid. 674·7625 (24 hrs.)  Yes, the Viewpoint (opinions)Department will be hiring  
very specious and very nice, male  people lor PAID positions.  
Save many dollars SSS'sl Textbooks-up to 40% oH (for all  NEWSPAPER CARRIERS:  only, need to rent, 200/month. Call Greg (219)-234-0985  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED MARRIED STUD TIX APPS  PERSONAL  II you write well, know grammar,  
courses). Two day (or Immediate  Students needed to deliver the  WILL PAY$$$$$$  have an Interest In journalism, etc.  
pick-up) service.  Chicago Tribune, New York Times  3 BEDROOM HOUSE GOOD  NEED MARRIED STUD TIX APPS  I need you. I want you. Be my  we may have a position to suit you.  
PANDORA'S at Notre Dame and  and Wall Street Journal on campus.  NEIGHBORHOOD ON BULLA AD  CALL 273-6047  Copy Editor. Good grammar and  Call Michael O'Hara @631-45411or  
Howard Street. 233-2342 See you  Excellent pay for reliable people.  5 MINUTE WAU< TO NO 2773097  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  spelling a big plus. Call Krista at 1­ more Information. or watch The  
Cell Joe Murray@ 634·1680.  4540 and tell her why you're the  Observer for further ads.  
HYPNOTIST ·INDIVIDUALS OR  1 G.A. TICKET NEEDED FOR B.C.  person she's been looking for. No  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
SMALL GROUPS-MORNINGS. AFTERNOONS, EVENINGS-STOP  SubWay Sandwich Shops is now  FOR SALE  GAME 271-1289  experience necessary.  Who were those guys dancing to  
SMOKING. WEIGHT CONTROL,  hiring pert-time Sandwich Artists.  NEED TEXAS GA'S.  To the 4 real men ol7 Grace...  "Hooked on a Feeling" at the graffiti  
PHOBIAS, ENHANCED LEARN- Close to campus. will work around  1990 HONDA CIVIC OX 4 DOOR  CALL ALISON 1-800-431-0010,  thank you lor putting up our loft II  dance, anyway?  
ING,  SPORTS PERFRO- your schedule. competitive pay and  STICK 50,000MI $5300 272-2918  EXT. 8796.  we owe you big time.  
MANCE. SEXUAL DYSFUNCTION,  a free sub everytime you work. Call  -MandA  Uly,  
MEDICAL AND DENTAL ANAEs­ Penny at 277-7744.  Call today  486 computer system, mucho soft­ -----NEEDED----­ Good to see you back old girt.  
THESIA 234-2095  and you could start tommorrow.  ware and free printer.  2 BC GEN. ADMIS.  Despite the amputation of your one  
ILOST & FOUND I  $1200 or best oHer x2043 1990 Honda CRX Sl Yellow 5­ FOOTBALL TIX CALL4X2910  To the ladies of 6A... this one's lor youI let's look lor some mud II*  appendage I look so toward to spending this year on your luxuri­ous cushions.  
••••••••••••••FOUND •••••••••••••• a gold quartz pulsar watch near  Macri's Dell In downtown South Bend Is now hiring lor all positions. Looking lor reliable,  Speed 59K $6950 Flrmlll277-9276 PRINTER Reliable Panasonlc 24­ ••••••••••••••••• Need three Texas tlx.  I hope the funeral went well. Long live the pez II  Frank, Sorry about your CO's. Not much  
the library circle. call X-3525. WANTED  hard working people In return for a fun work atmosphere and flexible schedules. Apply in person, 2-5p.m., 214 N. Niles  pin, VG cond. w/200+ sheets paper & 4 new ribbons. $10018.0. Call Fr. Mike 1-8821  call Eric at 0669.••••••••••••••••• Will trade 2 USC-NO GA's lor  At least Papa has room lor two. II you know something about style  of a love shack now, eh? Hi Erin,  
Ave.  2 OSU-ND tickets. Call Jim at  and fashion and can write pretty  I'm glad you're back  
Need a !un-loving, responsible stu·  GREATDEALIII  233-9904.  well, give Krista a call. 1-4540.  Classes are starting  
dent to babysit 2 children ages 5&7 In my Granger home 2-3 afternoons a .)Neek 2-6 pm. Must have own transportation. Please cell  FOR RENT ACCOMMODATION  Round trip plane ticket­South Bend to Los Angeles, ONLY $230. Call Rosanna, 234-3468.  ·····································La OKING TO BUY STUDENT TICK­ thanks. JOIN US AND TOGETHER WE  So soon you'll crack Parties beginning, Much fun to come  
277·5786.  Englishwoman offers quiet accom· modation near campus lor ND/SMC  ET BOOKLETS. CALL JEN @ 273-1738  SHALL RULE THE GALAXYI THE . EMPEROR HAS FORSEEN ITI  Hangovers are hell Sure you'll have some  
SOCCER REFEREES: Students needed to referee soccer games lor  visitors. Call (219)631·6072 days, (219) 273·1751 evenings.  TICKETS  The Observer News Department  -sean  
south-side elementary school  wants you! Now accepting applica·  
(Grades 5-8), located near Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street.  NICELY DECORATED ROOMS  A DEVOTED IRISH FAN NEEDS  My wile will kill me. Need set of Married Student tlx. Brett 272­ lions for the following paid posi­tions- Have an opinion? Send letters to the editor to THE OBSERVER 3rd  
All games scheduled between 4pm  FOR RENT. F-BALL WKNDS,  GA'S TO ANY/ALL  7223  Associate News Editor  floor LaFortune.  
and 5:30pm, Monday-Friday, Sept  REASON. RATES, GREAT  HOME/AWAY GAMES.  Assistant News Editor  
9·0ct 29. $15.00-$20.00 per game. Must have referee uniform. Call 291-4200 or 291·8731.  ATMOS., CONTIN. BRKFST, 2 MILES OFF·CAMPUS. CALL KIM 277-8340.  219·232-0061, 24 HAS.  Wealthy Alum needs tix lor all home games. Brett 272-7223  Chief Copy Editor Copy Editor  SUZV B, SARA, CHRISTY, HEATHER, LAURA, BETSY­thanks lor a great and oh-so·fun  
TICKET-MART, INC.  NO ALUMNI NEEDS 2 FOOTBALL  Submit a brief resume and personal  weekend. we'll have to dunk our  
SOCCER COACH: Responsible  2 BDRM HOME FOR RENT NEAR  WANTED  SEASON TICKETS FOR PERSON·  statement to Dave Tyler by Friday  heads In ice water again soon.  
studenVgrad student needed to  CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES  GA'S FOR ANY/ALL  AL USE PAY WELL 2773097  August 25th. Questions? call Dave  -Belle  
coach JV boys soccer team(s) for  272-6306  HOME/AWAY NO GAMES.  @ 1-5323.  
south-side elementary school (Grades 5·8), located near  BUY*SELL*TRADE (219) 232-0058-24 HAS.  Need Northwestern Tlx. Will Pay $$ or Have Tix to Trade. Call Erin at  TOGETHER, WE CAN RESTORE ORDER TO THE GALAXYI  Tim Sherman· Where's your per­sonal?  
Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street.  HOMES FOR RENT NEAR NO  #4021  
Practice 2:15·3:15 pm, Mon-Thurs.  232-2595  Clawson, my toes are longer and  
All soccer (games 6·12) scheduled  Will trade two Northwestern GAs lor  you know 1111  
between 4pm & 5:30pm Monday·Fri. Coach Sept 5­ HOUSE FOR RENT 2 Bedrooms lor rent in home close  BUSINESSMAN NEEDS 2or4  two Navy GAs. Call 1245.  Are you motivated? dedicated? Interested in writing?  don't worry, katie, I didn't even  
0ct 27. Paid position-Please call  to campus on State Ad 23. Private  NO SEASON TICKETS ANY OR  Need 2 tickets to Northwestern  The Observer News Department  consider putting In anything about  
291·4200 or 291-8731.  entrance & garage. Share bath and kitchen. $275.00 + 1/3 utilities.  ALL GAMES. OHIO.ST. andWASHINGTON A MUST  game.  -Bill x0531  wants youI  your suit  
Where the action isll Coach's Sports Bar Is now hiring lor part time kitchen. dish and hostess  Leave mess.: 273-6126  PLEASE HELP IF YOU CAN........ 2771659  Need N-Westem tix, stud or GA. Call Tim @ x1201. PLEASEII  See our ad this pagel  I'm gonna kick your a­right after I get this cement oulla my mouth  
positions. Perfect lor students who  ROOM WITH KITCHEN, UTILI­ Need 2 tickets to Northwestern  HELPII t need 1 NW Stu or GA  Welcome back roomies Charity,  
need to make good $$$ to enjoy the NO years. Must be 18. Apply  TIES, ETC. $250/MO. CLOSE TO CAMPUS IN SAFE NEIGHBOR­ game.  -Bill x0531  Elaine 42389  Emily, and Allison. I'm looking lor­ward to a great yearl  "Look!!II We found a party with Schwartz atlr  
in person, 2046 South Bend Ave.  HOOD. CALL PAUL 232·2794.  I NEED TIXS TO ALL HOME  NEED 2 WASHINGTON TICKETS.  Love ya, Caroline  
GAMES.272-6306  x3520  Nice acting, Bickel  
WANTED: Saint Mary's sports writ·  3 bdrm., 1-1/2 bath house, 2-car  
era and photographers. You do not  garage. ldeallaculty/staH home.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  *#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*11*#*#*11*#*#*#  $5.50 HAIRCUTS  trunk ride, good thing It was your  
have to commit on a full-time basis.  9-month lease.  I NEED STUD TIX APPSIII  I NEED BC GRAD TICKETS II  number, too  
Call Caroline at  315 Napoleon Blvd.  I NEED STUD TIX APPSIII  CALL ME  VITO'S BARBER SHOP  
284-4349 or come by room 222 In  277-8946.  CALL 273-6047  JACKIE 4-1266  1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST  hi everyone  
Holy Cross Hall.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  *#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#  SOUTH BEND -233-4767  

------------~~----­

page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, August 23, 1995 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALL .§f111T$ 8RI~FS Wouum•s Safety and Self­

Eagles, Buckeyes to kickoff season 
By RUSTY MILLER here working out anyway, so lot and are very aggressive up Associated Press why not be out there coaching front." ·•· them?" After the Kickoff, the COLUMBUS, Ohio Boston College is ranked 22nd Buckeyes are idle until hosting
"A national television audience in the preseason poll after a 7-Washington Sept. 16, followed and game experience for young 4-1 record last year that by games against Pitt Sept. 23 players -not to mention a included a 30-11 trashing of and the first meeting with 
$650,000 payout to each school 
Notre Dame and an Aloha Bowl Notre Dame since 1936, on -have turned Ohio State victory. The Eagles welcome Sept. 30. coach John Cooper and Boston back quarterback Mark "I don't want to play anybody College's Dan Henning into big­Hartsell (a .629 completion per­and let them have two weeks time boosters of Sunday's centage on 257 attempts), wide additional practice time on us," Kickoff Classic. receivers Kenyatta Watson (43 Cooper said. "That would have 
"I don't see any reason why catches) and Greg Grice (30) happened at Washington, at you wouldn't want to play in a and defensive linemen Tim Pitt and also Notre Dame. Notre Kickoff Classic," Cooper said at Morabito and Chris Sullivan (a Dame's going to play one more a news conference Tuesday. "It combined 14 sacks). game (before Ohio State) than 
gives you extra practice time we play, even though we're and it's good exposure for our "Their front seven is very playing in the Kickoff Classic. football team nationally." impressive," Ohio State's That's the main reason we 
Speaking on a conference call, George said of BC's defense, chose the game." Henning said: "When you're which allowed only 109 yards Each team has played in the Boston College and you're the rushing and 159 passing per game once before. BC fell to only team east of the Hudson game last year. "They have Brigham Young 21-14 in the River that plays 1-A football, some talented athletes on the 1985 game and Ohio State lost and the Meadowlands happens line that like to twist and turn a to Alabama 16-10 in 1986. 
to be almost in the dead middle of our main recruiting area, ... I don't think we could ever in good conscience turn down a game of that magnitude. 
"It fits all the criteria of what we're doing here and what we're trying to get done with our football program." 
So when the teams meet Sunday afternoon at Giants Stadium in East Rutherford, N.J., both coaches will be hop­ing to cement their recruiting base while preparing inex­perienced players for the sea­son ahead. 
"We're treating this game pretty much like a bowl game," Cooper said. "It's a reward for the hard work these players have put in." 
Ohio State, ranked 12th in the 

Associated Press preseason poll 
after a 9-4 season a year ago, 
returns mainstays such as 
quarterback Bob Hoying (19 
touchdown passes in 1994), 
tailback Eddie George (1,442 
yards rushing) and defensive 
ends Matt Finkes and Mike 
Vrabel (a combined 23 sacks). 
The Buckeyes opened last 

season with a 34-10 victory 
over Fresno State in the Dis­
neyland Pigskin Classic. Michi­
gan and Virginia open the col­

lege season in that game on 
Saturday. 
Based on 1994's experience, 
Cooper said he was well aware 
Courtesy of Boston College Sports Information 
of talk that a 12th game leads 
The Eagles will be led by junior Mark Hartsell this Saturday in the
to exhaustion later in the sea­
kickoff classic against Ohio State. 
son. 
"The negative thing that some 
people talk about is that it's a 
long season and your team will 
become stale," said Cooper, 
starting his eighth year at Ohio 
State. "I think that will affect 
you if you let it affect you. The 
way we approach this ballgame 
i!S our players are going to be 
•A 
DillIiiAr11r1 f lPG) 1:15, tJI, 5:35, 7:48, 1:51 

•
Dl_..,cat· (PCJ 1:21. 3::15, 5:25, m. a:35 

•A 
Wik IIDI C..G'S-13) 1:11, 3:21, 5:41, 7:55, 11:11·•._.(II)1:25, 3:41, 5:51, 1:11, 11:21 •IIIII (G) 1:15, 3:11, 5:15, 7:21, 1:21 ..........(PG-13) 1:35, 3:45, 5:45, 7:45, t45, 

•IIIII 
II Dl ~lPG) 1:21, 3:25, 5:31, 7:35, 1:55 


•lllllr Sill 2(IQ 1:11, tl5, 5:31, 7:51, lUI 
~1 7:! ALL ~EATS ll~~OnE o Pt.1
*riO PASSE:. ~UPfli~A~I:R'; f·C.CEPTm 




Tb~1N~tr~ Dame Baseball .-~:::::s -0~1::~::mfoJ:~~ 
t -•-..-~ ~~ b g ~ roa.ndBr;;:/, . ·_--..---219 CJ Jq. _ mee~iri Q F.l'iday}'" ~~~!::~~:d: Septem:!: 
Au~st 25,,at 6 P!ll atFrank .. 4. and is open to students and 
~~~-~.t~il}Y:tp f~r~aJl Jhos.e · staff. Fee is $9.00!' 
~hi,ng to try out for the var-Ballet·-Semester long course 
sttf:paseb~~lteam. _ _ _ that meets on Sundays from 
Rc:j_,Spo~ Intr~lllurals ~ Rec-1 :00·3:00 in Rockne Rm 301. 
Sports 1s offermg Interball & An informational meeting will 
Grac~J'a~;~~ }laseball,. ~nter-be 11eld on Sunday. September 
hall. (MeHJ1 & Wome11 s) & 3 at 1:00 in Rockne Rm 301. 
Grad/Fac!Staff Foot~all: lH & The fee is $2S.OO. 
Gr~!I.~Staft'~Men_s st_ngles, ·Horseback Riding Lessons • 
woJpen Stfi:gles ~ nnxed do_u-The information meeting for 
bles)Tenrus, Fr~~hman Swtm this course will be Thursday, 
M~~l a.n~ l~·otn• & co,Rec .Sept&mber7 at 6:00 in the 
Softball. Th!:! entry-dates are Rolfs Aquatic Facility class· 
!t'oll1 August 23 to August 30 room; Class begins September 
lll ~e 1\(:lCSport:;; ~ftice. Please 14 and more info at 1·61 00. 
call RecSp?rts .(1·610°).fo~ Athletic Commissioners ·All 
dat~ _an~ ~1 ll1 8 f'~r ~ap~am~ . . ball Athletic Commissioners 
.n:te~t1llgs, Our .ne'Yf hotline 18 •need to contact the RecSports 
1-8I,tEC. __ -_ . office. We need names, phone
B~,!~loJ1. ~Hec~~?rts \\!111 be numbers,. and addresses. 
sp~nsortng ~ tJlathlon on · Please call1·5100. 
30

Sat~rday. Au~st 2 ~ at. ~0 = Run Jane Run-RecSports will AM· Th~~~ Will~~~n?lvldual be sponsoring two Step aero· or ~~am cpmpetttlon .m h?t_h bics classes in support of Run v_ars1ty and n?n-varsity dlVI-Jane Run. Classes will take ~~~~· Tl:ler.e IS-qp charge for place on Thursday, August 24 thiS event. . at 4:00 & 5:30 in 301 Rockne. Sc~a _CoUJ's.e • -!~er~ Will be Challenge U Aerobics • Sign·an~:p.f() Jl!e(:ltmg f<;Yrthts cQw;se ups ·started yesterday attl:le ?n ~unday; August 27 at 1=00 RecSports office. lnterval aer· m •• H~ckne .Rm 21~· obics and Advanced aerobics Corqpletion_ of c~urse results m will be offered. Call 1-5965 
yrvtCA certification. For more for further details. 
mfo calll-6100. _ _ Broadcast Irish Football • 
SbQrin..Ry\1 Karate· Semest~r WVFI needs assistants to help 
lou¥ course that meets m broadcast ND football games.
30~6 30
Ro9~?e .219 M/W 4= = If interested call Ken Maverick startmg Wednesday, at the station (1-6888) or at ~epte~ber 14. You must re~-borne (277-1753). tstepJn advance .and t~e fee _Is Saint Mary's College $15.00. A demonstratiOn Will Basketball -A general meet­be b~ld on. September 4 at ing will be held on Thursday, 5:{)9Jll R_m 219. Call 1·6100 August 31 at 4:30 in Angela for more info. Athletic Facility. 

Welcome Back 
Students! 
Call for our Weekly Specials! 287-6966 
Open 8:00p.m.-3:00a.m. 
Wednesday, August 23, I995 The Observer· SPORTS page II 
• BOXING ·­
Tyson faces one more warm-up before title shot 
By TIM DAHLBERG Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS 

Mike Tyson will fight Buster Mathis Jr. on Nov. 4 in his final tuneup before lighting for part of the heavyweight title in 19March, his handlers said Tuesday. 
Stung by criticism of Tyson's aborted first comeback fight Saturday night against Peter McNeeley, promoter Don King unveiled a schedule that has Tyson challenging for a world title in his third light March 16. 
"Mike Tyson wants everyone to know he feels the edge was taken from him as well as Peter McNeeley," King said. "The level of opponent will be esca­lated for the second fight and Mike Tyson will fight for the title in his third fight." 
King said the opponent for Tyson's first title shot has not been determined, but the pro­moter in effect controls all three portions of the heavy­weight title. 
King defended Tyson's fight against McNeeley, but said he would drop pay-per-view prices for the Nov. 4 bout because both he and Tyson feel bad about the way the fight ended with McNeeley's manager, Vinny Vecchione, throwing in the towel. 
"No one expected Peter McNeeley to win a fight against Mike Tyson," King said at a news conference. "People came to see Mike Tyson. It was a happening, an event. It was not meant to be a championship fight." 
King praised McNeeley for going right after Tyson, but assailed Vecchione for stepping into the ring and forcing the fight to be stopped 89 seconds into the first round with McNee­ley still on his feet. 
"If he was that concerned about his fighter he should have never put him in the ring," King said. "He took from Peter McNeeley a moment of glory that is priceless and a moment of glory he can never recapture again." 
King said he would promote McNeeley again, but not with Vecchione working his corner. 
"Never will he ever get a chance to make a mistake like he did the other night," the promoter said. 
King said Tyson would fight Mathis on a card at the MGM Grand hotel that could include heavyweight title fights involv­ing WBA champion Bruce Seldon and WBC champion Oliver McCall, who defends his title next month against Frank Bruno. 
The card will also feature 


-
'~Welcoine Week 1995~ ~ 
Thursday, August 24 

•Sneak 
preview of the movie, "Brothers McMullen" Cushing Auditorium 8 pm and 10:30 pm 

•FREE 
billiards, 9 pm-I am, and FREE video games, I 0 pm -II prn in the LaFortune Gorch Games Room 





I~riday, August 25 
•Welcome 
Back Picnic Fieldhouse Mall 4 pm-6 pn't FREE FOOD, GIVEAWAYS!!! ~ 

•Comedy 
Night at Washington Hall 8 pm $3.00 '~-"" 


...... ,_____.,. -­
Featuring: Greer Barnes and Rock Reuben • c."~ 
•FREE 
Ice Cream Social -• -Fieldhouse Mall I0-II :_10 pm -­

•"While 
You Were Sleeping" -.._: Cushing Auditorium 8 pm and I0:30pm $2.00 


Saturday, August 26 

•Rockfest 
IV: featuring campus bands FREE FOOD AND DRINKS Fieldhouse Mall I -5 pm 

•Notre 
Dame Night at Coveleski Stadium: South Bend Silverhawks vs. Burlington Bees I·REE TICKETS, at the LaFortune Info Desk FREE SlllrTTLE to the stadium, begins at 5:45pm and leaves 

from Stepan Center 


•"While 
You Were Sleeping" Cushing Auditorium 8 pm and 10:30 pm $2.00 


Sunday, August 27 
• "While You Were Sleeping" 
1-(i'!
;:0~i;i 
~ 
Cushing Auditorium 2 pm $2.00 
). Sponsored by: """"'. 
Office of Multicultural Student Affairs 
\..'-~ 
Student Activities 
Student Government 
Student Union Board Julio Cesar Chavez in a bout against fellow Mexican champi­on, lightweight Miguel Angel Gonzalez. 
It will go up against the third fight between heavyweights Riddick Bowe and Evander Holyfield, which is scheduled just down the .Las Vegas Strip at Caesars Palace on the same night. 
Both fights are set for pay­per-view, with King using Showtime Event Television, and the other fight on rival TVKO, which is operated by Home Box Office. 
"If we go head-to-head on pay-per-view, I'm going to the mat." King said. "His cablecast will be pay-per-view. Mine will be pay-per-view. Let's see who the people want. I predict they end up going on HBO." 
King hedged about whether Mathis was the formal oppo­nent for the Nov. 4 fight, saying he wanted to see how the selec­tion was taken by the boxing media. But Tyson's manager, John Horne, said Mathis was the pick. 
"We're fighting Buster Mathis Jr. on Nov. 4," Horne said. 
Mathis is 20-0, but is a light hitter with only six knockouts in his career. His biggest claim to fame came last year when his bout with Riddick Bowe was ruled a no contest after Bowe 
>­

hit him after he was already down in the fourth round. 
King claimed Saturday night's fight was the biggest grossing fight in history, bringing in more than $85 million world­wide. 
The bout was bought by about 1 million homes and all but 200 tickets were sold in the 16,736­seat MGM Grand arena at prices ranging from $100 to $1,500. 
Both he and Horne denied that the lower prices for the Nov. 4 card were needed to lure fans to buy a Tyson fight now that the curiosity factor has diminished with his first appearance in more than four years. 
"The people have shown they are going to support Mike Tyson," Horne said. 
Horne said Tyson was back at his Ohio home on Tuesday and hadn't had a chance to reflect on the fight. He said the fact Tyson came back quickly after McNeeley landed a left hook while brawling with him showed the former heavyweight champion's reflexes are still there. 
"He feels comfortable with his performance," Horne said. 
"He's just satisfied he per­formed well enough to get out of the fight. A fighter whose skills were gone couldn't have won that tight. It was all by in­stinct." 
King, who talked for 45 min­utes before answering ques­tions, also took up a challenge from rival promoter Bob Arum for a Tyson fight against George Foreman. 
Arum on Monday said the fight could take place with each fighter guaranteed $15 million and the winner getting another $70 million or so -but only if King wasn't handling the money. 
"We'd consider fighting George Foreman with Bob Arum," King said. "But we don't need an outside third party to handle the money. I trust Bob Arum." 
King also challenged Arum to promote a fight between Chavez and Oscar De La Hoya, who is promoted by Arum. King said he would stand aside and let Arum do the promotion if the two were equal partners. 
"That match can be made immediately," King said. "We can dislike each other to our respective banks." 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
The Observer VIEWPOINT 
W'ltnts YOU on sta./J! 
Copy Editor and 
Assistant Viewpoint Editor 
positions available No experience necessary! Call the Viewpoint desk at (1-4541) to apply. 
WELCOME BACI(! 
Need a job that fits your busy schedule? 
Memorial Home Care offers an excellent opportunity to fit work around your class load! 0 We're seeking energetic, responsible, caring people to join our IGdKare child care staff. 0 As a IGdKare registry staff member, you'd be "on call" 
Call 273-2273 to find out more! 
Memorial Home Care® 

17390 Dugdale Driv~, South Bend, IN 46635 page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, August 23, 1995 

•NFL 
Wide open NFC Central plagued with question marks 
By DAVE GOLDBERG 
Associated Press 
Two years ago, the Reggie White Around America Tour. the first pursuit of a high-pro­file free agent. ended in Green Bay. In each of his two seasons there, White's stated goal of a Super Bowl ended in the second round of the playoffs. 
This year, he may not get that far. As the expression goes, things happen. 
What happened in Green Bay after last year was an injury that probably ended the career of Sterling Sharpe, the sterling wide receiver; the defection of Bryce Paup, who complement­ed White as a pass rusher; and the failure by the Packers to lure any of the free agents ­like Andre Rison -who could have replaced Sharpe. 
Thus. the NFC Central is again wide open -four of the five teams (Minnesota at 10-6, and Detroit, Chicago and Green Bay at 9-7) were mediocre enough to make the playoffs behind Dallas and San Francisco last year. And Tampa Bay might have been a contender this year if the Bucs hadn't committed to second-year-man Trent Dilfer at quarterback. 
.But everyone has problems. 
Chicago and Detroit don't 

really know if they have quar­
terbacks, and the Lions may not 
have an offensive line. 
Minnesota needs a running 
game and revamped its entire 
secondary, and Warren Moon, 
the latest designated quarter­
back savior, is 38 and coming 

off a troubled off-season. 
The Bears sneaked into the 

playoffs at 9-7 last year. beat 
Minnesota for the first time in 
three games last season, then 
were quickly dispatched by the 
49ers. 44-15. 
Chicago's problem: the quar­
terback the Bears want to play, 
Erik Kramer. isn't necessarily 
the most effective. That title 
goes to Steve Walsh, who was 
8-3 as a starter, as opposed to 
1-4 for Kramer. who got the big 
bucks to be the savior. 
So Walsh got a one-year deal 
worth $1.5 million. ''I'm not 
surprised," said Kramer, who's 
still contending for No. 1. Both 
would be helped if they got help 
at receiver, particularly from 
Curtis Conway, who's inconsis­
tent as a deep threat. 
But the guy with the bigger 
bucks is Rashaan Salaam, the 
Heisman Trophy winner, who's 
expected to take over Lewis 
Tillman's job as the No. 1 run­
ning back. It didn't help that 
Salaam held out for three 
weeks, but he provides the 
breakaway speed that Tillman 
d.oesn't have. 
Chicago's real strength is 
defense -or, to put it more 
accurately, coach Dave 
Wannstedt's defensive philoso-
SAVE MANY DOLLARS $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Textbooks -up to 40% off (for all courses) Two day ' or immediate pick up service. 
PANDORA'S 
at Notre Dame and Howard Street 233-2342 ~ See you there! 
phy and coaching style. The Bears gambled a bit in the off­season, sending end Trace Armstrong to Miami and re­placing him with John Thierry, who didn't show much last year as a No. 1 draft choice. 
Everyone's writing off the Packers but the Packers, partic­ularly without Sharpe. He seemed headed for the Hall of Fame before he was told to stop playing because of a neck in­jury that could have left him paralyzed. 
Robert Brooks becomes the No. 1 receiver for Brett Favre. who was the NFC's second-best quarterback behind Steve Young last year. · 
''I'm going to call the same plays, throw the same passes. It's up to these guys, the receivers, to get open," Favre says. "If they can get open, then nothing's going to change at all for me. If they're not open, I just don't throw it to them." 
If they're not open, where's the offense? 
The Packers haven't had a 1,000-yard running back since Terdell Middleton in 1978 and Reggie Cobb, dispatched to Jacksonville in the expansion draft, wasn't the answer last year. So Edgar Bennett, the all­purpose fullback is being shift­ed to tailback in hopes that he'll be the answer. 
The offensive line is helped by 
the return of Aaron Taylor, last 
year's No. 1, who missed the 
entire season with a knee 
injury. And the defense still has 
the two aging bookends, White 
and Sean Jones, and gets back 
a healthy Leroy Butler, an all­
Pro safety two years ago who 
was hampered last season by 
injury and illness. 
Minnesota lost nose tackle 
Henry Thomas to Detroit and 
let three-fourths of last year's 
starting secondary go, meaning 
second-year man Dwayne 
Washington is the star. John 
Randle remains the key to the 
pass rush and journeyman Jack 
Del Rio has become a playmak­
er at middle linebacker in his 
old age. 
But what the Vikings really 
need is a running game so 
Moon won't throw out his arm. 
The receivers, led by Cris 
Carter and Jake Reed, are ex­
cellent and the offensive line 
can pass block. 
The latest running prospect is 
James Stewart, the rookie from 
Miami, (not to be confused with 

N01fl[{IE 1DAMJE G01LlF SJHrOIP 
FINE QUALITY SPORTSWEAR GOLF EQUIPMENT TEE TIMES 631-6425 
Jacksonville's James Stewart from Tennessee). He gives them size and Robert Smith, if he's healthy, gives them speed. 
Detroit has Barry Sanders, Chris Spielman, Herman Moore and Lomas Brown. Beyond them are a lot of question marks. 
One of those questions is quarterback Scott Mitchell, try­ing to live up to the $8 million deal he signed after five good games as Dan Marino's backup. Mitchell didn't do much last year, then got hurt and Dave Krieg, now moved on to Arizona. led the Lions' playoff drive. 
But the key to the Lions could be John Teerlinck. who came over as the defensive line coach from the Vikings, bringing Thomas with him. He may give the Lions the pass rush they've lacked, working rookie Luther Elliss in with the veterans. 

Sanders. of" course, is the offense. But other than Brown and center Kevin Glover. the offensive line is average ­that's one reason Sanders, who rushed for 1,883 yards in the regular season -was held to minus-1 in the 16-12 playoff loss to Green Bay. 
Alas, poor Bucs. 

They started 2-9, then won four straight games before los­ing the finale to Green Bay. That gave them their 12th straight season of 10 losses or more, a record of futility un­
· f · Ih d
mate e m any pro esswna 
sport. 

One of the keys to the winning 
streak was the development of Craig Erickson, along with 
rookie running back Errict 
Rhett. 

But Sam Wyche had already 
committed to Dilfer as the 
quarterback, meaning it's up to 
Dilfer to save Wyche's job this 
year, tough for a quarterback 
who's thrown just 82 profes­
sional passes and has a career 
rating of 36.3, less than a third 
of the rating put up by Steve 
Young last season. 
Dilfer still has Rhett. 

But he probably will have to 
start the season without Alvin 
Harper, to whom the Bucs gave 
big money. Harper, the No. 2 
receiver behind Michael Irvin in 
Dallas, injured a knee in the 
opening exhibition, and now 
must begin the season late 
without proving that he can 
play without Irvin and Troy 
Aikman. 
\< 

CounesyofC~IoradoSportslnformation 
Heisman trophy winner Rashaan Salaam, who Will be part of the 
Bears' running attack, looks to make an impact in the NFC Central. 
-. The__.,. ···a·~t:-·s· e~ Ter
U .I. y , 

is now hiring in thefollowing department: 
Advertising Design 
Looking for underclassmen with computer/ design experience in Quark X press, Freehand, and/ or Photoshop 
Please contact Jennifer Mackowiak or Ryan Malayter at 1-7471for more information. 

Sponsored by the Prelaw Society 
8:30 a.m. -2:00 p.m. Nieuwland Science 
Sign up in 101 O'Shaughnessy 
page 13

Wednesday, August 23, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS 
... 
• BASEBALL 
Sox pound Tigers 15-7 Yankees co01plete 1-8 West Coast 
By HARRY ATKINS stafT, whose ERA rose to 5.55, Associarcd Press has allowed 39 runs on 62 hits 
swing with 6-2loss to the A's
in Detroit's last four games.
DETROIT 

It's probably a good thing they don't set ofT fireworks for home runs at Tiger Stadium, the way they do at Comiskey Park. They might run out, especially when the White Sox are in town. 
Hobin Ventura hit two of Chicago's five homers and drove in four runs Tuesday night as the White Sox pounded the Tigers 15-7. 
Detroit and Chicago combined for a major league record with 12 homers in a game here May 
25. In five games at Tiger Stadium, the White Sox have hit 14 homers this season. 
"We always feel we're going to score," White Sox manager Terry Bevington said. ''I'm sure they feel they're going to score, too. We've been swinging the bat real well, but we probably saw some pitches to hit tonight, too." 
The Tigers' depleted pitching 
That's one reason the Tigers are 8-30 since the All-Star break. 
"Maybe this tired the White Sox out," Tigers manager Sparky Anderson said, only half in jest. "We'll give them this one to get the next one." 
Ventura is 10-for-23 with four homers and 11 RBis in his last six games. The 15 runs were the most given up by the Tigers this year. 
David Martinez, Ron Karkovice and Norberto Martin also homered for the White Sox. Cecil Fielder, Hon Tingley, Chad Curtis and Chris Gomez homered for Detroit. 
Lance Johnson had four hits for Chicago. 
Jose De Leon (5-3), who relieved starter Dave Righetti with no outs in the fourth, was the winner. De Leon allowed one run on three hits over three innings, striking out three. 
By ROB GLOSTER Associared Press 
OAKLAND, Calif. 
The Yankees should have lis­tened to 4-year-old Geronimo Berroa Jr., and not pitched to his dad. 
"Can you believe that? He told me two days in a row, 'You're going to hit a homer,"' the elder Berroa said after hitting a two-run homer -his second in two days -as the Oakland Athletics beat New York 6-2 Tuesday. 
Berroa broke a 2-2 tie in the fifth with his 18th homer. It went over the center-field fence, just beyond the reach of a leaping Bernie Williams. 
Brent Gates, who had two hits to extend his hitting streak to 12 games, added a two-run sin­gle in the seventh for Oakland. 
Todd Van Poppe! (3-4) allowed two runs and four hits in six innings as the A's won three straight for the first time since June. He struck out eight. 

Berroa, who homered, tripled and drove in three runs in Monday night's 13-4 victory over New York, is hitting .406 (13-for-32) with four homers and 16 RBis in nine games against the Yankees this sea­son. 
"We obviously haven't made good pitches to him," Yankees catcher Mike Stanley said. "Berroa can be pitched to, but you can't make a mistake, He's a great mistake hitter, one of the best in the league." 
Berroa, who lives in New York during the winter, has a .352 career average against the Yankees. 
"It's just confidence," A's manager Tony La Russa said. "He has a lot of friends and family (in New York), so he's going to take every at-bat like it's his last and that's a great attitude to have." 
Scott Kamieniecki (3-5) gave up four runs and seven hits in six innings as the Yankees lost their fourth straight and fell one game below .500 (53-54). Kamieniecki has lost his last three starts. 
"There are certain guys who hurt teams, and Berroa hurts us," Kamieniecki said. "It just doesn't seem like, he misses a mistake when we make one." 
Jason Giambi, who had missed the five previous games with a strained right hamstring, had an RBI single in the first for Oakland and Eric Helfand added an RBI single in the sec­ond. 
The Yankees got two runs in the third on an RBI double by Wade Boggs and Ruben Sierra's RBI single. It was Boggs' 2,499th hit. 
"On this trip, things haven't been going like we'd like them to," said Don Mattingly, whose team is 2-6 so far on this 13­game trip. "We'd like to have atoned for our last trip out here, but we're not doing it. 

An original play ··· -Buddy Farmer. 
.•,.,,.,~".9•,:' 

Recycle The Observer 
"Our Lady on 
the Dome" 

As the river called "St. Joseph" flows softly towards its end it turns eastward at a city aptly named "South Bend" 'Twas here Fr. Sarin [o11nded a 
university for the glory of God's reign lie named it for "Our Mother" Notre Dame-Notre Dame 
...So begins a beautiful eight 
.. 
stanza poem that belongs in every 
··' 
fan's home and office. Suitable for framing, the tribute is bordered in blue and gold. 
The spirit of the University sin­cerely expressed-makes a cher­ished gift. 
Send personal check or money order to: 
Pat O'Block, P.O. Box 306, LaGrange, IL 60525 Allow I 0 days to 2 u·r~ks for ddit~ery.

Mall to· "Coachos· Tickets • Washington Hall, Unlvorslty of Natl'tl Damn, Notre Dnm•, IN 4SSSS. Make chagJcs payable to: Unlval'!lity of Notre Damo 
r.----------------------,
:Name -----------------: 'I .J VIa .J Mastercard Card # ·-___ . .. ~--_ ·-···· . . ·-······ __ Exp. dais , 
·I 
:Address ________________ : 
·l .~ 
1C s z· 1 
: tty -------rate __ 1p ---:
'1 Nama I 
:Number of poems@ 12.95* each ___ : 
) ~ 
.1 AddreBII 1( 
: Total I
I -----1 
~ ~ 
I $2.50TotaiS&H _____:
1 Clty Stnte;Zip t.: 
I I 
: Grand Total ____ -I 
~ ·~
1 # of tickets x $50 each = $ total Performance: D Friday, Sept. 8 D Saturday, Sept. 9 1~ 
I.*$1.00 from each saie will be donated to I 
I l
·~---~--~---r,~~~~..'l!!'t·:':"''"l"'t~~,~~~~,~~~~~.~''i1,,~~~~~~'!!.:~~;,:~~~,"1'"~-r-~.~~~,~rr.~,~,~~t L--~-~o~:P~~~~~~~0Pf~~--J 

page 14 The Observer· SPORTS 

... 
• BASEBAll 
Ripken's record run helps raise money for disease 
By MICHAEL SCHNEIDER Associated Press 
BALTIMORE 
The battle against the disease that killed Lou Gehrig will not be forgotten on the night Cal Ripken breaks the Hall of Farner's record for consecutive games played. 
Gehrig died in 1941 of a degenerative disease that slow­ly destroyed his spine and nerve cells. Now, the Baltimore Orioles, in honor of Ripken's 2,131st consecutive game, plan to raise $1 million by selling seats on the edge of the playing field Sept. 6. 
The money will be used to set up a foundation at Johns Hopkins University for research on neuromuscular diseases, including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, commonly called Lou Gehrig's disease. 
The 260 seats will be set up that night in rows of two against the box seat railing near first and third bases. They will sell for $5,000 each, said Joe Foss, Orioles vice chairman of business and fmance. So far, about 50 of the seats have been sold. 
The Orioles got permission from the· American League to put the seats on the edge of the field for the game against the California Angels. 
"It's ironic but very in­spiring," Foss said at a news conference on the field at Cam­den Yards. "It's our hope that 
this  foundation  will  be  a  
springboard  for  finding  a  
cure."  

Gehrig died two years after establishing the record of 2,130 consecutive games played in a 15-year career with the New York Yankees. The disease gained international recogni­tion after his death. 
ALS strikes the spine and nerve cells in the brain and eventually leaves a person par­alyzed, said Dr. Ralph Kuncl, a professor of neurology at Hop­kins. The disease's victims usu­ally live three to five years after being diagnosed and die when muscles in their lungs stop working. 
Join The Observer sports staff. Call 1-4543. 
"What's amazing is how selective it is," Kuncl said. "Even if a person like Lou Gehrig was unable to move a finger, his sensation, vision, hearing and mind would be perfectly intact." 
Hopkins was recently part of an international study that test­ed the drug Riluzole on 25 patients with the disease, said Dr. Jeffrey Rothstein, a profes­sor of neurology. The trial ended in December and involved a total of 970 patients at 30 sites around the world. 
Riluzole isn't a cure for the disease, but slows down the degenerative processes and al­lows a patient to live longer, Rothstein said. The drug is be­ing considered for approval by the Food and Drug Administra­tion. 
"The reason it's exciting is because nothing has ever worked before and suddenly you've got something to go on," he said. 
Major league baseball has been a leading donor of re­search funds for the disease. The ALS Foundation receives millions of dollars each year from baseball players. 
The Philadelphia Phillies, for instance, have raised more than $2 million for the founda­tion since 1989, said Leigh Tobin, a Phillies spokeswoman. Pitcher Curt Schilling personal­ly donated $25,000 last season by offering $50 per strikeout, $500 per complete game, $1,000 per win and $1,000 per shutout. 
This season, Schilling is 
promising $100 per strikeout 
and $1,000 per win, Tobin 
said. 
Lacrosse 
continued from page 16 

saw the team's numerous exhi­bition matches. However, always known for their hospi­tality, the fans quickly devel­oped an interest. 
"We played at halftime of a soccer match, and at first we got some laughs," said sopho­more goalkeeper Alex Cade. "Five minutes later, though, the whole crowd was cheering, and after the game kids were coming up to us asking for sticks." 
"There was a great reception from the Irish people wherever we went," added Corrigan. "At one point we played a team of English All-Stars. Given the past troubles over there, and our nickname as the Fightin' Irish, you can imagine who the crowd was for." 
In hopes of making a lasting impression of the sport, the team enlisted the help of the Lacrosse Foundation and equipment manufacturer Brine, which combined to donate four goals and 100 sticks, all of which were left behind in hopes of stirring up interest in lacrosse. 
However, goodwill intentions aside, Corrigan also had the more selfish motive of fostering camaraderie among his squad, as well as getting in some pre­season work. 
"Spending ten days in Ireland 
with your 30 best friends is a 
great experience," said 
Corrigan. "The trip was an 
absolute and total success." 

Corrigan's objectives evident­
ly manifested themselves with 
the players too. 

"The team defmitely got a lot 
closer," noted Cade. "When 
you're in a foreign country 
totally dependent on a group of 
guys, you learn a lot. It was 
also good to see us gelling on 
the field so early in the year." 

·······························~······: 
: • Biathlon ·:;!} : 
•• & \..~-: 
• •"/_; 'l 

: Beach Party -f/ :~ : ••
• 

• ~:· .
•• Saturday, August 26 

122>'9:
• 10:30 AM at St. Joe Beach 
: 
• Biathlon Beach Part
• 
1/2 Mile Swim Starts at Noon & Canol'S Available 2 Mile Run S.1iling & Rowing Club 
• Register in Advance at lJl'l11l111str.1tion
• 
Rl•cSports Sntba Dl'monstration
•
• 
V.usit Bl•,Kh (;,mll's & Swimmin~•• Team & Individual Volll'yb.lll Tournanwnt 

• 
Nnn-Varsit (t\d\'. V-ll.1ll Rt•gi,.,lr.lliPn RPquirPd) 


• 
Tt-am & Individual Hot Do •s & Soda on Sail' 

: It is not Necessary to Compete in the Biathlon to Take Part in the Beach Party! :
:...................................... 

20 Paid Student Callers Students looking for a part-time job that will give them real life experience in an enjoyable work environment, calling alumni on behalf of the Notre Dame Annual Fund. 
REWARD: 
Training, evening hours, $5.95/hour. 

Fit the description? (No experience necessary.) Stop by one of our information sessions on Thursday, August 24 at 4pm or 5pm at the Development Phone Center (northeast corner of Brownson Hall, next to Lewis Hall). 
~ : 

; ; Questions? Call Kent Goffmet :: ,.., (1-7938) orKaty Hart (1-7241) 

:.. ~ ~ ~t:~---······· ........................................................................................ ...............~~::···· 
:.....................................................
···············································-············ 


Wednesday, August 23, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
-
CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 

l't'l i=ILL\~G 0\JT A RHO£.R 'SIJR\JE'{ fOR CHEWING MPGf..1.1~E.  SEE, 11\'2! ASKE!v \-\OW M\JCI-\ M0\-1'2{ I ~\) o~ G\.1\lo\ cN:\-1 't-!EEK, <;{:) I WRo~•. ~500." !=OR M'i AGE, I P\JT "43: At{\) ~1-\E.!'\ 11\£'1 ASKED W\-\P-.1 \o\'i !=MOR\TE FLAIJOR IS, I WROTE . GAALIC / CIJRR'i:  
'  


DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
1"\Y PROPOSED WORK PLAN FOR. THE YEAR I~ TO 5TRES.S-TE5T OUR PRODUCT UNDER SEVE.f\E NETWORK CONDITIONS. IT'S TUST AS 
WELL·, I 
WOULD HA.VE ..----..,,__I-lAD TO 
t:::::=t:1R~l...L KILL YOU. 
Q 
J. 
~~~--------------~~L-~~~~..~--------~ 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 30 46-Down 48 Varnish character ingredient
1 Capital east of 49 SentenceAbidjan 31 Confine subject8 Three-time 32 1911 Nobel 50 River sightOscar director chemist 51 Urban rainwear? 
11 -wolf 33 Jamaican music 
58 Mythical bird 14 Sports show 38 Holiday 
59 April fools' sign ending beginnings eo Stand up 

15 Liquid fat 37 Pentateuch 81 Kind of degree 
author,

18 Boar's Head traditionally 82 1986 Janet product Jackson hit 17 Power for an 38 Library index 83A bit cool electric blanket? abbr. 19 Mill shipment 39 Legal matter 
DOWN 20 Rug exporter 40 Certified 
1 Lob's path 

21 Riding_ 41 Apollo attendant 
2Corp. head 23 Cooper Indian 42 Calamitous 3 Roman205 27 Second-century 44 W.W. ll's Uncle 4 "Diff'rent astronomer Joe Strokes" actress 29 Philippine 45 Luther was one 5 Brandy source 
headhunter 47 Illegal, in a way 8 "Give My Regards ..." composer 
7 Author Paton 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
8-se 9 Fix 10 Buttercup family 27 Reduced 43 "Losing My 49 Raisa's refusal member 
28 Baseball's Religion" group 52 Part of a tax 11 Bridal party 
Speaker 44 Cleaver's "­plan: Abbr. postponement? 30 Swing, e.g . on Ice" 53"-the
12 Sheik's ladies season ..."451995 Tony 32 Baby discomfort 13 Beauty parlor winner George 54Dernier­
34 Couric of 
item 
"Today" 46 Literary pen 55 Laotian dollar name 56 Thought waves add-on 35With 47 Controlling 57 Carlos, for one22 Pamplona cry 37 New Testament 23 Certain track 
trio athlete 38 Part of Q.E.D. 
Get answers to any three clues 
40 Sistine Chapel 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
site, with "the" 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
26 Eye part 41 Gladstone, e.g . 



Don and Ellen Finley attempt to leave their 4 month-old with a sitter for the first time . 

..• OFimREST 

,'@(>Seniors! Suppose you don't want to work at Proctor and Gamble just yet! Come to CSC. There are still vol· unteer opportunities available in teaching and social ,§,~p1ees with some great programs all over the U.S.A. >itS'weU as American ~illl:l.oa and Japan. 
Have 
something to 
say? 
Use The Observer classifieds 

WELCOME BACK !!!!! 

Looking For A Way To Beat The Heat? ...... . 
Try A Purple Frostie!! 
-8 tablespoons grape juice concentrate -3 cups water -1/2 cup lemon juice -1 cup plain yogurt -lemon slice 

Blend first 4 ingredients well. Pour into 4 glasses and garnish with lemon slices. 
Sponsored by the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 
-------~--­
-
SPORTS 
page 16 Wednesday, August 23, 1995 
• fOOTBAll 

The Fun Bunch 
the linebackers are the poten­
Enjoyment 
tial stabilizing force. Saying that about a group which
leads to 

enters the 1995 campaign with a combined total of just twelveaggressiveness starts maybe a little prema­By TIM SHERMAN ture, but this cohesive cadre Associate Spons Editor has all the makings of the attacking, animalistic defense 
"Whenever you're enjoying 
that is coordinator Bob Davie's 

what you are doing, you do it calling card. 
better." 
Projected starters Berry, Ly­"If you are having fun, it just 

ron Cobbins, and Kinnon makes getting motivated that 
Tatum (all juniors) and sopho­much easier." 

more John McLaughlin all 
Though these may sound like 
boast the key attribute that aphorisms from parents and 

recent Irish defensive units the counselors over in 
have lacked ; speed. the Career and 'II~ 
M,_., "We do have prettyPlacement office, their 

good speed," Berryreal sources are Notre 
noted. "We will defi­

Dame linebackers Bert 
nitely be a lot more 
Berry and Jeff Kramer, 
aggressive that in the 
respectively. 
past. You'll see us fly­
The reason for such 
ing around quite a bit out 
plucky platitudes is simple; the 
there." Irish defense, especially the 
That's not to say the Irish 
linebacking corp, has switched 
have abandoned any sem­
from analyze and target to 
blance of a defensive scheme. 
seek and destroy. In the 
"We still do plenty of X's and 
process, they have added a O's, but there's more to it,"
significant aspect to their play. 
drop backer Berry said. 
Fun. 
Perhaps just as important is "We've got a great group of the fact that the linebackers 
guys out there," junior Berry fully approve whatever plan is miles an hour and give all your "Tatum is a great player,"said. "We all know each other presented to them. Not only effort, you'll succeed." Kramer commented on thewell and that makes it a lot do the believe in what is being Perhaps the two players most WILL linebacker. "He is oneeasier to relax. We're just out taught, they believe in the responsible for this predicted of the hardest hitters on thethere having fun." 

teacher. success are Cobbins and team even though a lot of peo­Based on the early reviews of "We want to play hard for Tatum. ple say he is small." 
fall camp, there appears to be 
coach Davie," said Kramer, With Berry's quickness and
plenty of reason for the new­who has seen some first-string overall athleticism being a Cobbins, holding down thefound enthusiasm. 

action in two-a-days. "He known quantity, it is the two SAM spot is anything but un­
As much as the defense is 

makes it fun to play and his inside backers who are the dersized. At a strong 241-lbs.,
this season's question mark, 

attitude is great. If you go 100 ones to watch. and wearing number 6, he has evoked memories of Jerome Bettis. But this time, instead of the fullback getting the bet­ter of a collision, the line­backer will be the one to lay the lumber. 

"Cobbins is just great to be around," Kramer said. "He is a fun guy. 
Just another member of the Fun Bunch. 
• LACROSSE 
Irish bring new experience to Emerald Isle 

By TIM SEYMOUR 
Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame lacrosse head coach Kevin Corrigan has been renowned over the past few years for cultivating diamonds in the rough and building a program with no scholarships into an NCAA elite eight squad following last year's tourna­ment win over Duke. 
What better way to continue the tradition than bring the game into uncharted territory, a land itself strongly tied to precious rocks as home of the Blarney Stone and known as the Emerald Isle. 
"Without scholarships, we have to do everything we can to make this program unique," explained Corrigan. "We travel as much as any lacrosse team in the country, and Ireland seemed a natural extension of that, since the traditional Irish sports of hurling and Gaelic football also emphasize contin­uous action." 
Given this inspiration, Corrigan & Co. stormed the land of the leprechaun on a whirlwind ten day tour from August 10-20, acting as mis­sionaries of the game from Shannon to Dublin. 
Prohibited by NCAA rules from bringing this year's fresh­men, the team was allowed to include graduating seniors, including superstars Randy Colley and Will Sutton, who provided top competition for Notre Dame by suiting up for the opposition. 
Although gaining in popularity in neighboring England, lacrosse was a new experience for the Irish spectators who 
see LACROSSE/ page 14 

Football 
vs. Northwestern September 2, 1 :30 EST 
Volleyball 
vs. Northwestern September I, 8 p.m. vs. USC September 2, 8 p.m. 
Men's Soccer 
at St. Louis August 26 (Exhibition) 

• Kickoff classic set for Sunday Women's Soccer 
see page 10 
vs. Providence September 2, I 0 a.m. vs. St. John's September 3, Noon 
• New opponent for Tyson 
Cross Country 
see page 11 at Ohio State September 15 
• Major league coverage 
see page 13 

