
Friday, November 3, 1995• Vol. XXVII No. 49 
,,, I~ INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Lovell relives Apollo 13 
By MAUREEN HURLEY Saint Mary's News Ediwr 
It is a story of courage and triumph in a crisis; of a disas­ter turned to a drama that eaptivated a nation, and still amazes after 25 years. Last night, Captain James Lovell spoke at Saint Mary's College about his experiences as com­mander of the ill-fated Apollo 13 mission. 
Lovell and his crew were 200,000 miles from Earth and 55 hours into their flight when an explosion drained the eruft's power and oxygen sup­ply. "Lead weights went to the bottom of my stomach. I looked out the window, and saw gasnous substance coming from tlw spae11craft. and real­iznd that shortly, we'd be out of oxygr.n, then out of eleetrical power," Lovell said. 
l>nspile the faet that "ground eontrol ealled and said they didn't think we'd make it honw." Lovell and the three­man erew managed to bring tlw eraft safely haek to Earth. Aeeording to Lovell. proce­durns to get the erew back home that would ordinarily take weeks to develop were lwing developed in ground eon­trot ancl tested in simulators in a rnattflr of hours. 
While narrating actual film dips from the voyage that were prns•mtml in the Congressional inV!lstigation of the mission, Lovell took his audience step­by-stnp through the miraculous advnnture. 
"We landnd safely in the Pa­dfk Oeean, dose to where we would havn landed had it been a normal flight," he said. 
see LOVELL I page 6 
The Minnesota architectural 

Designs on
firm of Ellerbe Becket has pro­
vided the.§' University with .~ a number of its .fi 

Notre Dame 
campus facili-~ ties, including~ Keough Hall~ and the College t?l
., 
z Architectural firm helps
of Business i5 
Administration '5 building. 

shape school's new look 
By HEATHER COCKS News Writer 
A! 
any given moment, University of Notre Dame alumni can be spotted taking that entimental journey around campus, during which they stop to admire the 'new' high-rise dorms, or lament the placement of DeBartolo Hall right the middle of their favorite tailgating fields. The new College of Business Administration and the planned West Quad dorms are the most recent in a string of campus expansions that cause graduates to marvel at how rapidly their alma mater has grown. 
Designed to better serve the changing student body, these structures do have more in common than just their function or their ability to con­fuse even the more recent graduates. Since the addition of O'Shaugnessy Hall in 1950, Ellerbe Becket, Inc. has undertaken the design and construction of almost every new facility on campus, including Knott, Nieuwland, Loftus, DeBartolo Hall, and Pasquerilla Center. "They've always done great work for Notre Dame," said Director of Facilities Engineering Mike Smith. 
Dennis Moore, director of public relations, concurs. "You don't use a company as consis­tently as we use Ellerbe Becket if there isn't a high level of satisfaction." 
He added that continually working with the 
... same architects tends to augment the aesthetic value of their work by making the campus as a whole appear less disparate. "The new buildings
• all seem to fit together and complement one another, which makes the differences between
• 
new and old structures less stark. Buildings that 
SCHEDULE OF EVENTS 
~----------------------~--------~,
Friday, November 3 ' 
12·2 p.m. Alumni -Senior Club tor lunch South of Stadium 3:30·5:30 p.m. Alumni Tours Main Circle · 4:30p.m. Marching Band Rehearsal Main Building4:45·6:00 p.m. Glee Club Rehearsal Crowley Hall 6:45p.m. Band steps off for Rally Band Building7:00p.m. Pep Rally JACC (Gate 10) 


Saturday, November 4 
8:30a.m. Marching Band Rehearsal Loftus Center · 9:00·1:30 p.m. Alumni Hospitality Center JACC North Dome 9:30a.m. AA Meeting CSC 10:00·10:30 a.m. Cheerleader Performances NO Bookstore 10:40·11:00 a.m. Cheerleader Performances JACC, North Dome 11:30·12:00 p.m. Glee Club~ NO in Review JACC, North Dome 12:00·12:30 p.m. Shenanigans Performance JACC. North Dorne 12:00·12:45 p.m. Marching Band Concert Main Building
1:10 p.m. Marching Band Pre-game Show Notre Dame Stadium 
really don't fit may consequently seem less attractive."
• Founder Thomas Ellerbe began his one-man 
see DESIGN I page 6 



Navy game ends stadium era 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST University, says the view of Touchdown Jesus, Associate News Editor the mosaic on the wall of Hesburgh Library fac­ing the stadium, will not be completely obstruct­
After 65 years and 323 home games, Notre ed from within the facility. Dame Stadium is about to embark on a new 
see STADIUM I page 10chapter in its storied history. 
Tomorrow's game between the Fighting Irish and the Midshipmen of 
With the loss of p(lrking spaces around Navy marks the final time that football the stadium due to its expansion, the B2/C2 will be played there before expansion and 06 lots have been extended to include and renovations begin on Monday. 462and 298 spaces, respectively. In 
. ··-··--·,~
~.,,,."..
At that point, workers will raze the addition, the parking area south of the 
-"·'
stadium and west of Juniper Road has been reconfigured and designated 
• see PARKING, page 10 exclusively for faculty and staff. Parking for off-campus students continues to be available in lots south of the Joyce Center. 
existing press box and begin adding 26 The stadium expansion begins Monday. 
rows of seats around the House that Rockne Built, where the Irish have post­ed a 24 7-71-5 record and played before 16,901,145 fans entering this weekend. 
The $50 million project, expected to be completed before the 1997 season,
1:30 p.m. NOTRE DAME VS. NAVY No.tr.e Dame Stadium : will increase the seating capacity45 min post-game Mass Stepan from 59,075 to 80,990. With the 
4:30·7:00 p.m. Candlelight Dinner Buffet Dining Halls added seats, the stadium moves . ' 
up from 44th in seating capacity · among the 106 Division 1-A foot-.· 
Sunday, November 5 
ball facilities to 14th. The additional rows will extend ' 
8,9:30,11 a.m. Mass Basilica 
the stadium upward and out­
1,2:00 p.m. Men's lnterhall Football Stepan Fields. ·· ..... 
ward, but Mike Smith, director of
1:30 p.m. Women's lnterhall Football Notre Dame Stadium 
facilities engineering for the 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, November 3, 1995 


A plea for understanding 
Election Day is next Tuesday, and while 1995 may be an off-year for national political cam­paigns, Tuesday still holds some significance in that it marks the one-year countdown to the 1996 presidential election. All Republicans on campus can take comfort in Brad Prendergast 

Associate News Editor 
knowing that Bill Clinton may be in office for only -------­366 more days. 
Whether the conservative candidate of choice be Dole, Gramm or even Lugar, the right-wing political pundits are pointing to a better future and the days when the GOP returns to 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue and strong leadership resides in the Oval Office. Conservatives have criticized Clinton greatly, and deservedly so, for wavering back and forth on dozens of issues, but a Republican resident in the White House in 1997 will not do any better until one thing happens: 
Unless the American public and the media revise their expectations of the presidency, Clinton, Dole and whoever else may hold that office will have their hands tied by a nation that expects them to be experts on every eco­nomic, social, military, and political issue. It is time to stop turning to the president for answers whenever a problem develops. 
In the months leading up to an election, Americans scrutinize and criticize every aspect of a candidate, holding him under the searing light of the political microscope, pointing out his personal faults, denouncing him for his stance on one out of a thousand issues. And then when he is elected, they expect him to be perfect. 
The fact remains that, however much we expect of our president, however great he may be, he is still human. 
Once, the President of the United States was revered. We put his face on money, carved his countenance out of a mountain, and attached his name to buildings and streets. But those days are gone. Is the pres­ence of a strong leader in the Oval Office a dying breed? Will there be no more Washingtons, Jeffersons or Lincolns? 
The reason that the last two presidents, George Bush and Clinton, have been regard­ed as ineffectual leaders is due more to the increased scrutiny that they suffered at the hands of the ever-increasing media and less to their respective abilities. Had Washington lived when information could be transmitted instantaneously via television or the Internet, he, too, would not have escaped with his rep­utation unscathed. 
Technologies provide so many ways to communicate that it only makes sense that we utilize those capabilities to keep tabs on what is going on in Washington. But what founding father expected communication abilities to extend this far? 
During the 1992 campaign, Clinton and his advisers had a motto that reminded them what was important in the election: "It's the economy, stupid." They believed that they had to focus on one particular issue. But running a country demands -thanks to the immense pressures borne down by the public and the media -that a president must be an expert on all issues. If you look at Clinton's term during the last three years, you'll see that the economy has not nearly been as much of an issue as welfare and health care. 
Disagree with Clinton's politics as you may, 
but the fact remains that no individual, from 
either party, can run this country until the 
public realizes that the president can never 
meet the people's present expectations. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

News  Viewpoint  
Gwendolyn Norgle  Mike O'Hara  
Tom Moran  Production  
Sports  Kristi Kolski  
Andy Cabiness  Dave Diaz  
Tim Seymour  Lab Tech  

DOURADOS, Brazil 
When Silvinha Cavalcante, a Kaiowa Indian, didn't return to her straw­roofed hut one evening last April, Lu­ciano Arevalo knew where to find his 12-year-old niece. 
He crossed the dusty plain of his reservation where a forest once stood and stopped at the foot of a lone guava tree. It was there that Silvinha's wid­owed mother had hanged herself a year earlier. 
From a branch a girl in a sundress dangled by the neck, her body swinging in the moonlight. 
"Silvinha went to her mother," said Arevalo. "She had eight baby brothers. They were going hungry, and she could not bear to watch this. It was killing her soul. To save her soul, she killed her body." 
Suicide, once rare among Brazil's native Indians, is ravaging the Guarani-Kaiowa tribe that lives on the remote brushlands of the western frontier state of Mato Grosso do Sul. 
In the first nine months of this year, 43 Guarani­Kaiowas killed themselves and dozens of others tried, ac­cording to the government's National Indian Foundation, known by its Portuguese acronym, FUNAI. 

• Wom.o AT A GuNcm 
Death the only way out for some Brazilian Indians 

Thurmond refuses to debate 
COLUMBIA, S.C. 
Sen. Strom Thurmond kicked off his campaign for an eighth term Thursday by promising not to debate his op­ponent. "Let him run his own race and I'll run mine," the 92-year-old Republican said after a fund-raiser that featured former President Bush as a speaker. Elliott S. Close, heir to a tex­tile fortune, is expected to be Thur­

mond's best-funded Democratic challenger since Charles "Pug" Ravenel in 1978. Thurmond was first elected in 1954 as a write-in candidate. Close said he would not make Thurmond's refusal to debate a major campaign is­sue. "I am not going to do anything that smacks of attacking Senator Thurmond or his age or anything like that," Close said. Thurmond faces a primary challenge from Charles Thompson, a physics professor at Trident Technical College in Charleston. Close is the only Democrat who has announced so far. 
New York rules gay couples can adopt 
ALBANY, N.Y. 
In a ruling hailed by gay rights advocates, New York's highest court declared Thursday that unmarried people -gay or heterosexual -have a right to adopt their partners' children. Since state laws recognize that single adults can adopt, regardless of sexual orientation, the right must also be extended to partners in gay or hetero­sexual relationships, the Court of Appeals decided in a 4-3 vote. "To rule otherwise would mean that the thou­sands of New York children actually being raised in homes headed by two unmarried persons could have only one legal parent, not the two who want them," Chief Judge Judith Kaye wrote. New York becomes the third state after Vermont and Massachusetts whose highest court has recognized the right of a person in a homosex­ual relationship to adopt the other partner's child. "Gay parents, like non-gay parents, want the best for their children," said Lambda's Beatrice Dohrn, who represent­ed a lesbian couple in the case. "The court's ruling will allow any parent in the state to better provide for their children's needs and interests." 

Before the 1990s, only a handful of the tribe's 25,000 members killed themselves each year. By contrast, the suicide rate for Brazil as a whole is less than one for every 25,000 people, the census agency says. 
Indian experts attribute the phenom­enon to poverty, the disintegration of families and forced acculturation of the Guarani-Kaiowa in the face of a violent westward push by white settlers, an encroachment similar to that on North American tribes a century ago. 
Anthropologists also blame the clear­ing of forests for pasture and planta­tions and the loss of more than half of the tribe's ancestral lands to ranchers and farmers. 
"To resist giving up their identity, the Guarani-Kaiowa appear to see no alter­native but death," said Rubem Thomaz de Almeida, an anthropologist who has 
studied the tribe since 1973. "It's not only a disgrace, 
but the shame of a country that likes to call itself the 
most racially integrated nation on the planet." "Our sorrows begin with the lack of land," Chief Amil­ton Lopes and seven other Guarani-Kaiowa leaders wrote in a letter to Congress earlier this year. "There is not enough space to plant, hunt or live." 
Paparazzi pestering celebrities 
LOS ANGELES 
You take your pictures, you take your chances. Holly­wood celebrities literally are fighting back at the pa­parazzi, physically assaulting shutterbugs paid hand­somely to catch stars in private and sometimes embar­rassing moments. In the last several weeks, Alec Bald­win was arrested for beatrng a videographer camped outside the actor's suburban Los Angeles home, Robert De Niro battled with a New York photographer and Woody Harrelson and Will Smith both went after tabloid shooters in separate airport incidents. "It's not a little out of control, it's a lot out of control," says Pat Kingsley, Hollywood's top publicist. "The only thing an artist owns is his image -and when that image is hurt, the artist has no recourse. The damage is done," says press agent Paul Bloch, who represents Sylvester Stallone, Steven Seagal, James Caan and many others. Publicists for the stars say the photographers goad the celebrities into boil­ing over: Sean Penn having a quiet dinner won't sell, but a shot of him going nuts is worth thousands of dollars. 
Search for Vietnam remains goes on 
NEW YORK Two weeks after the fall of Saigon and Phnom Penh, 
U.S. Marines were dispatched to rescue the crew of an American cargo ship seized by Cambodian rebels in the Gulf of Thailand. But their assault helicopters ran into a sudden storm of hostile fire as they approached tiny Koh Tang island on May 15, 1975, and in the ensuing deba­cle, 38 Americans were killed -the last U.S. casualties in a war not quite over. Now, more than 20 years later, a Navy salvage ship and a team of search experts have returned to Koh Tang, hoping to recover the remains of 18 Americans left behind in the bloody battle that fol­lowed the seizure of the U.S. freighter Mayaguez. The operation, which began this week and is expected to last a month, is part of the Joint Task Force-Full Accounting program set up by the Bush administration in 1992 to find the remains of more than 2,200 pilots and other military personnel missing and presumed dead. A team of 20 military specialists and civilian anthropologists set up camp on the island, where they will use archaeologi­cal search methods to look for remains. 
TheAccuWeather®forecast for noon, Friday, Nov. 3. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1995 AccuWeather, Inc. 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Ptess 
Graphics Disco Dave Murphy Chris Mullins 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday excep[ during exam and vacarion periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Allentown, PA 46  37  Columbus  41  25  Minneapolis 35  12  
Atlanta  56  37  Dallas  59  36  New Orleans 60  50  
Baltimore  46  39  Denver  43  20  New York  52  48  
Boston  48  47  Los Angeles 75  54  Philadelphia 50  42  
Chicago  39  22  Miami  88  78  PhoeniX  75  58  

Friday, November 3, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 3 



U.S. entering new era in relations with Cuba 
By BRYAN LAMB News Writer 
The United States is nntering a new era in its relations with Cuba, aeeording to Gene Hiegler, eoorllinator of the Cuban Programs Working Group of the U.S. Information Agency (USIA). Yesterday, Bieglt~r led a discussion at the llnshurgh Ctmtllf entitled "The Op1ming of a New Dimension in lJ.S.-Cuha Hnlations." 
According to Bingler, the "New I>inwnsion" is not in faet new at all. Bather, it is the n~sult of the Cuban Demoeracy Aet passml thn~e years ago. 
Only recently, though, have the intentions of that aet begun to surface. A wide array of organizations of a religious and humanitarian nature with­in Cuba are beginning to eome about thanks to the efforts of tlw U.S., which is also trying to establish new exchanges in arts and eulture. 
"Tiw U.S. has deeided to reach out to the Cuban people by promoting activities from the private sector of the U.S. to facilitate peaceful change within Cuba." Biegler said. 
Biegler's organization has led a charge that has recently eclipsed the $100,000,000 mark in Cuban aid. These funds and other aid have come from the private sector of the 
U.S. because government in­volvement in relations with Cuba have been very contro­versial in the past, Biegler said. 
The U.S. is taking this unique approach to international rela­tions because, he stated, "we weren't otherwise having suc­cess in establishing links with Cuba." 
His agency hopes that this approach will lead to the establishment of a peaceful relationship similar to the ones the U.S. now has with other nations. 
According to Biegler, since the demise of the Soviet bloc even the institutions in Cuba that had once prospered now lack proper opportunities. 
Although Fidel Castro, the longtime leader of Cuba, has 
;~~rfr~:·~~:~a~;~~;;·:~u~~:~:a~:~::·;:;~~;~::~;:;~;=~~~~ 
~~k Faculty Artist Series Prrsc11:s • ~~~ 
~~ WnLIAA1 CERNY,ptantst 
~ celebrates tlze :,~ 100tlz Birthday Anniversary of , Paul I-Iindemith 
' 
i (1895-1963)
'; 1l 2:00P.M. ij Sunday, November 5 
. 
~ Annenberg Auditorium 
,...~ 
i 
~~ 
. 
f
i 
'
0 
i, 
i
i
' 
~ 

~~~~ The Snite Museum of Art ~&& 
~~••••oo.,,.,,.,.f.~~!.a~!:q,2.~.:~..~a~~.C:.£!!~J.~.,,.,,.,,.,...,~~
L-------------------------·J 
Now Available at the Notre Dame Bookstore 
made it very clear that any economic measures that have been or will be made are for the purpose of reestablishing and maintaining the revolu­tion, he knows that Cuba can­not at present remain in con­trol of the proceedings and welfare of the entire nation, Biegler said. "This is a sign that they (the Cuban govern­ment) understand that they must help their people to meet their basic necessities." 
That is where Biegler and the USIA come in. They have helped Cuba to establish a cur­riculum of English teaching in all Cuban universities to allow them "to keep up with scientif­ic and humanistic disciplines in English." The USIA donated 23,000 textbooks to these uni­versities in the past year alone. 
Biegler's organization has also sent the first American professors to Cuba to teach English as a second language to the many Russian professors employed by the Cuban gov­ernment, 
"These are things that we've been doing all over the world for some time and have just started doing with Cuba," Biegler said. 
As of now, neither nation is making an effort to publicize these programs because of the controversy that U.S.-Cuba re­lations have generated in the past. Biegler specified that it was far too soon to tell what the results of these programs would be over the long run. 
However, over the next few years, he said, "We will see whether this is an approach that can be maintained productively." 
In addition to serving as co­ordinator of the USIA, Biegler also represents them on the 


3 On 3 Basketball ournament 
NORTH 
VILLAGE .LANDING 

FRIDAY EVENING 
4:30 pm-8:00 pm 
8:00 pm-ll:OOpm Music & Dancing! 
THE GRAND BUFFET 
•Over 20 Entrees 
•
Hot Vegetables 

•New 
Polish Items Added 

•
Array of mouthwatering desserts 


Music & Dancing put on by Ned Swanson of ProShow 
NO COVER CHARGE! 


SUNDAY MORNING 
10:00 am -2:00 pm 
PRIME RIB BRUNCH 
•Prime 
Rib 

•Peel-n-Eat 
Shrimp 

•All 
breakfast items 

•
Array of mouthwatering desserts 


Located at the North Village Mall 52565 U.S. 31/33 North ; South Bend, IN 46637 (219) 272-8180 
The Observer/Katie Kroener 
Dr. Gene Biegler offers his insight into U.S.-Cuban relations during his lecture yesterday in the Hesburgh Center. 
Inter-Agency Task Force. Previously, he worked as the press and information officer for the USIA in Lima, Peru, and then as first secretary and director ol' the U.S. Information Service at the U.S. Interests Section in Havana, Cuba. 



Concert to benefit 
ffilSSIOn 
Special to the Observer 
The University of Notre Dame Folk Choir will present a concert of sacred music this Saturday at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall to benelH a Holy Cross mission in Jinja, Uganda. East Africa. 
There will be no fixed charge for this public coneert, but an offering will be taken up for the support of the Jinja mis­sion, whose pastor is father Torn McDermott, a former member of Notre Dame's earn­pus ministry stall'. 
Under the direction of Steven Warner. the 55-member Folk Choir is one of Notre Dame's principal liturgical choirs. Es­pecially known for its singing at the 11:45 mass in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, the choir has issued five recordings of sacred music and has toured widely in the U.S. and abroad. 
The concert will feature highlights of the Folk Choir's repertoire, including slllections now attracting national atten­tion with their distribution by World Library Publications of Chicago. Sacred song from Africa will also be featured. 
Seating for the performance will be first-come, first-served, and concertgoers are encour­aged to arrive early. 
Please Recycle The Observer. 

page 4 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, November 3, 1995 

The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 

''on the campus'' 
Open Mon.-Sal, 9am-5pm • Spedalhours footbaO weekends! Fri., 9am-7pm Sal, 8am-6pm Call for our illstrated catalog • 1-219-631-6316 
Friday, November 3, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
• SECURITY BEAT 
MON., OCT. 3Q 
7: 36 a.m. A University employee was transported by Security to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of Injuries sustained during a fall. 
9:52 11.m. A University employee reported the theft of a racing helmet and gloves from a display case inside Fitzpatrick Hall. 
5:04 p.m. An off-campus student reported the theft of his bike from the bike rack at the Hesburgh Library. 
5:42 p.m. An off-campus student reported the theft of her bike from the Pasquerilla East bike rack. 
TUES., OCT. 31 
6:09 p.m. Security apprehended a suspicious person In the Hesburgh library. The man was identified, issued a trespass warning letter, and escorted off campus. 
8:53 p.m. A Grace Hall resident reported the theft of his jacket and wallet from the Joyce Center. 
9:15p.m. A Grace Hall resident was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a sports injury. 
11 :21 p.m. A Stanford Hall resi­dent reported the theft of his bike from outside of Stanford Hall. The bike was unlocked at the time of the theft. 
WEDS., NOV. 1 
4:30 a.m. A South Bend resident was arrested outside of Sacred Heart Basilica by S~;~curity for public Intoxication. 
12:24 p.m. A University employ­ee reported hit and run damage to her vehicle while parked in the 601 parking lot. 
8:00 p.m. A Sorin Hail resident was transported to Med Point for treatment of a sports injury. 
Special to The Observer 
Two notable concerts are coming to the Annenberg Audi­torium of the Snite Museum of Art. On Sunday, Nov. 5, at 2 p.m., pianist William Cerny, a professor of music at Notre Dame, will perform a recital there. The following Sunday, Nov. 12, the Saturday Brass Quintet will hold a concert in the Auditorium, also at 2 p.m. 
Cerny's program will feature solo piano works by Paul Hin­desmith, in celebration of the 10Gth anniversary of the com­poser's birth. The recital is free and open to the public. 
Hindesmith (1896-1963) is considered the foremost Ger­man composer of his genera-



Snite to host two concerts 
tion, whose style and influence are central to the musical phi­losophy of the era. Cerny's program will feature his "Suite 1922" for piano and the first three piano sonatas. 
A graduate of Yale University and former professional ac­companist, Cerny was a faculty member of the Eastman School of Music from 1959-72. While at Eastman, he performed all 62 Haydn sonatas, the 19 Mozart sonatas and all 32 Beethoven piano sonatas. 
His solo performances have taken him to scores of univer­sity campuses and his weekly radio programs have been car­ried by 30 National Public Radio stations throughout the country. 

You 
a hole in your 
are not a ntooch. But when 
pocket renders you changeless~ you r e 1 u c t a n t I y call the folks collect. 
You dial 1 800 CALL ATT. Your pangs of guilt are minimal. 
1 HOO CALL ATT always costs less than 1-soo-cou.~:cT: 
:\lwupi works from un)· phnnt.•. :\nd ulways ~cls )'UU till' t'l'liuhle :\l&r Nelwnrk. 
I'St' it"''"'"'''''''' J'OII"l'<' t!IJ CWII/JIIS. 
Know the Code. 1 800 CALL ATT That's Your 'lt'ue Choice:w 


AT&T 
Your True Choice 
• For interstate calls. Promotions excluded. 
Cl 1995 A'I&T
l.jj()().CQI.l.I'LT is a registered trademark of MCI. 
The Saturday Brass Quintet's concert's program will include "Suite for Two Trumpets" by Henry Purcell, Richard Danielpour's "Urban Dances Book Two," Charles lves' "Variations on America," Music of Brass" by Ingolf Dahl and "Richochet" by Kerry Turner. 
Tickets are $5 general ad­mission and $2 for students and senior citizens. The con­cert is sponsored by Notre Dame's Department of Music. 
The Saturday Brass Quintet is made up of Charles Olsen and Tom Hoyt on trumpet, Pete Schoettler on horn, Thomas Hutchison on trombone, and Kyle Turner on tuba. The five, a quintet-in-residence at the Manhattan School of Music, perform traditional Renais­sance, Baroque, and classical works but also act as advocates of contemporary music. They have commissioned and pre­miered more than a dozen new compositions by such notable composers as Anthony Davis, Arvo Part and John Harbison. 
The quintet frequently gives masterclasses at the Julliard School and the San Francisco Conservatory of Music. 
Mediator facilitates negotiations 
By SLOBODAN LEKIC 
Associated Press 
DAYTON, Ohio 
With the presentation of the first elements of a possible peace treaty, international me­diators and the leaders of war­ring factions in the former Yu­goslavia moved today from rhetoric to hard negotiations on how to achieve peace in Bosnia and Croatia. 
The first full day of talks be­gan with U.S. mediator Richard Holbrooke holding a series of morning shuttle ses­sions with the three Balkan presidents in separate build­ings at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. 
A source close to the Serbian delegation said a meeting was being planned between Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic and Bosnian President Alija Izetbegovic. Bosnian officials could not be reached to confirm the report and U.S. officials said they knew of no such session. 
After discussions Wednesday evening among Secretary of State Warren Christopher, Milosevic and Croatian Presi­dent Franjo Tudjman, the two Balkan leaders agreed to peacefully resolve the issue of the last sliver of Croatian terri­tory still controlled by Serb rebels. 
At Christopher's urging, the two leaders promised to work on normalizing relations be­tween Serbia and Croatia by providing for the return of all refugees and by respecting human rights. 
Only a few hours earlier, Christopher formally convened the meeting at the base near Dayton, saying, "This will be a long journey, but it all starts here." 
Sitting across a conference table from Tudjman, Milosevic and Izetbegovic, Christopher said. "The world can and will help you make peace." 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Friday, November 3, 1995 
structures, citing educational relief not to have to re-train the of review, with little changes that they have contributed and commercial buildings as architects each time we begin here and there to make sure greatly to the smooth progres­

Design 
comprising the bulk of their construction. This way, they al­everything will work perfectly," sion of the planning stages. work; according to Randy ready know everything, even says Smith. "They also like to "Many ideas have been devel­
continued from page 1 
Bolduc, senior project architect the tiniest details. Among other consult with the people who oped together; so far, every­business in St. Paul, Minnesota, at Ellerbe Becket, the Mayo things, it certainly saves time." will ultimately use the building, thing is looking good," he in 1909. The 86-year-old com­Clinic, State Farm Mutual Au­Though the University main­ensuring their happiness with added. pany has since grown into the tomobile Insurance Company, tains final creative control, the plans." Director Smith of Facilities second largest architectural and the University of Notre Ellerbe Becket is given few de­Department Chair and Pro­Engineering acknowledged that engineering firm in the country, Dame are among their steadiest sign restrictions. "After we hear fessor of Architecture Thomas the University has used other as published by Building Design customers. "Notre Dame is one the idea from Notre Dame, Smith is currently working local companies for various and Construction Magazine. of our biggest clients; it's been Ellerbe Becket sets a program closely with Ellerbe Becket on projects, such as the new base­"We've changed dramatically 45 years and we're stili work­that defines the needs of that the plans for the Architecture ball stadium; however, he as­over the years," asserts ing together," he said. Other facility -this precedes sketches building. Professor Smith was serts that "for all large projects, researcher Marlene Beckett, universities have employed and designs," says Bolduc. given creative control by the Ellerbe Becket is definitely our adding, "As we've become more their services, but Bolduc stat­Their primary considerations University; although in this case firm of choice. They've never disciplined, we've expanded ed that the Notre Dame campus include comfortably seating or the architects are not directly failed to provide great service our offices internationally as is the only one onto which they. housing the required number of involved in the design, he says to this University." well as domestically." have built extensively. students, all within the des­
Ellerbe Becket's headquar­Generally, architects at ignated budget. 
ters are still located in Min­Ellerbe Becket collaborate on Smith estimated that a mini­nesota, though now in Min­assignments; each client, in­mum of two years usually pass­neapolis; in addition, there are cluding Notre Dame, has a cus­es between initial discussions five other major offices nation­tomized team. In their press and the completion of the build­wide and one in Tokyo, Japan. release, the company stated ings, crediting the architects The firm's focus is on the that this is the most effective with being meticulous about construction of non-residential way to ensure customer satis­checking every detail. The faction. Agrees Smith, "It's a plans undergo "several phases 
Lovell and his crew, "making . "Apollo 13 was a failure. things happen" became a mat­NASA was worried about ap­

Lovell 
ter of life and death. propriations, and wanted to continued from page 1 While Lovell is best known forget about the flight," Lovell for the Apollo 13 mission, he said. "It finally dawned on a lot 
The teamwork of the crew also made history when he of people that it was a triumph and ground control to bring the achieved the first lunar orbit in that brought forth the capacity men home safely cause the an earlier flight, Apollo 8. of men doing something in­landing to be known as one of "Apollo 8 was the most awe­surmountable." NASA's finest hours. "I was inspiring flight," Lovell said. "I' The motion picture release of almost certain it would end in was watching the Apollo 11 "Apollo 13," starring Academy catastrophe," Lovell said. " I launch [the first lunar landing] Winner Tom Hanks as Lovell, shouldn't be here to talk, but I with Charles Lindbergh, and I was based on Lovell's book, am because of the teamwork of said that this was a momentous Lost Moon: The Perilous Voy­the people on the ground in occasion. Charles turned to me age of Apollo 13. "The movie mission control, the initiative of and said that Apollo 8 was the captivated the imagination of these people, and their motiva­most captivating (occasion)." everyone, and all tha incidents tion not to let us die in space." In his 11-year NASA career, were true." said Lovell, who 
"There are three types of Lovell logged 715 hours in served as chief technical ad­people: those who make things space over the course of four viser for the film. happen, those who watch missions. However, he believes The movie, "Apollo 13" will things happen, and those who his greatest contribution to be shown at Saint Mary's in wonder about things," Lovell NASA was achieved on the Carroll Auditorium at 7 p.m. said. "If you have a crisis; and ground, by finally telling the and 9:30 p.m. on Nov. 10, and want to be successful, you have full story of the ill-fated Apollo at 1 p.m. and 3 p.m. on Nov. to make things happen." For 13 mission. 12. 


or $25,000 in cash cfwdP!ize.· $2,500 Tft;dP!ize.· $1,000 
The winners will be selected by random drawing held of LOGAN Center, 1235 N. Eddy Sfreef, South Bend at 10:00 a.m. on December 31, 1995. Winners need nof be present. 
LOGAN was founded in 1950 os aschool for children with mental retardation. If is now the principal area provider of programs and services in St. Joseph County for children and adults with developmental disabilities. 
ro~/leO~+~~ edt LOGAN at 289-4831 
By JILL LAWRENCE 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 
Some call it the first step to­ward an outright ban on abor­tion. But the painful debate over "partial-birth" abortions could also lead politicians to a middle ground rarely trod in this polarizing dispute. 
The House vote this week to bun the rare and gruesome lute-pregnancy procedure was the first prohibition on an abor­tion method since the 1973 Supreme Court legalization de­cision. 
Senate Democrats are vowing to add guarantees that such late-term abortions would be legal to save a woman's life, to avert serious health problems, and in cases of severe congeni­tal abnormalities. 
President Clinton has said he would veto a bill without such protections. 
The upshot could be a law that ensured partial-birth abor­

[R\ [E\Yl[E[R\ [E[NJ [D) Ii~ [NJ oc 
r~~[D)tPJlL ~0\Y/IEM~IE~ J 
fK[[fN]@JfNJ ~@JJfllllrEfNJl 

~~~IE OPCClOCCOC 
tions were performed only in tragic cases of dire necessity. Most Americans would agree with such a result, and politi­cians who support abortion rights recognize that. 
House Minority Leader Dick Gephardt, D-Mo., voted in favor of the ban this week. And Sen­ate Minority Leader Tom Daschle, D-S.D., acknowledged Thursday that "there is some legitimacy to the concerns ex­pressed." 
However, he said that Senate Democrats would offer "cor­recting or at least clarifying legislation that will allow us the assurance that women are still going to be protected." 
Partial-birth abortions -a nonclinical term created by the House -involve partially ex­tracting a fetus through the birth canal and collapsing its skull. 
The House bill would make it a crime for doctors to perform the procedure, though a doctor could argue in court that he was trying to save a woman's life. 
Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole said Thursday he will schedule a vote on the House bill "at the earliest possible op­portunity. 
Helpful harvest Thaobservar/KallaKroenar 
Valene Sayers, director of Notre Dame's Creative Writing Program, reads from one of her own novels at last night's Writers Harvest. All profits from the Harvest, in which Notre Dame graduates and faculty read from their own works, went to a local food bank. 
~o, What !re lou Wearing To The Game? 
• URBAN OUTFITTERS 
• VINTAGE LEVI'S 
20o/o off Sweaters, Jackets, and Pants with Student ID 
2.5 miles North of state line (US 31/33) 1912 S. lith, Niles 
ON UNIVERSITY PARK DRIVE 277-7336 
ALL FEATURES IN ULTRA STEREO 
"Gel Shorty" (R) 
2:00. 4:20, 7:30, 9:55 
"Fair Game" (PG) 
2:00.4:30. 7·00. 9:10 
(PG-13) 
2:10,4:40, 7:10.9:30 
(R) 
1:30,4:00,7:00,9:45 
"Vampire In Brooklyn" (R) 
1:45. 4:10.7:20. 9:35 
"The Big Green" (PG) 
2:00,4:30 
"Unstrung Heroes" (PG) 
7:10.9:25 
BELLE PLAZA
THE 
Sat
STYLE 687,9123 
Sun 


CO.INC. 

Layaway & 
Alternative Clothing for Women 
alterations available 
"To Wong Foo" 2:10,4:30  (R)  
"Never Talk To Strangers"(PG-13) 6 55 9 20  
Thursday Night Study Break All Shows $4. 00 All Day With Valid Student/. D.  $3.75 ALL SEATS BEFORE 6 PM *NO PASSES· SUPERSAVERS ACCEPTED  


THE BECKER CPA REVIEW COURSE 
INVITES YOU TO A PRESENTATION ON 
"HowroPREPARE IDRTHE CPAExAM" AND CURRENT EVENTS 
Monday, November13, 1995 6:00pm 
University of Notre Dame LaFortune Center Foster Room 
• Pizza and Pop will be served 
•Door Prize Drawing for Gift Certificates $$$ 
• Special College Discount Available to Students Attending 
Open to ALL Students Interested -BRING AFRIENDI FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, CALL 277-4366 
,_ 
American ~e.art a-A Assoctalwn,M~ 
. F1ghling Heart D1sease and Stroke 
The Most 

Important 
Instrument in 
the Treatment 
ofStroke 


~7c. 
271-2f,U9 
(We offer discounts for ND, SMC students/) 
Roodlldt Strvlct • }ump<lortJ • Futl Dt/lvtrltJ Tlrt Changing • Wrtcktd Auto Tow< 
Only 2 minutes from campw/ 
We have the lowest rices In town, and are always there when you need us, 24 hours a day! 
\\'(~accept checks and credit cards! 
pageS The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, November 3, 1995 






(3MPUS tV11NISTRY 
Dear Alumni & Friends, 
The staff of Campus Ministry extends an invitation for you to come together and celebrate the Eucharist while on campus this weekend. 
Thirty-first Sunday in Ordinary Time Navy Football Weekend November 4 and 5, 1995 

Saturday Vigil Masses 
Basilica 30 minutes after game 


Stepan Center 45 minutes after game 


Sunday Masses 
Basilica 8:00, 10:00 & 11:45 am 
Sacred Heart Parish Crypt 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 
9:30 & 11:00 am 

.----~F~ri_d-a~y~.N~_o--v~e~m~b~er~3~.~1~9_9-5~~~~~~~~~~~~.~~~~~~~~~~~~~T~h~e~O~b~se~r..:...:v-e~r~•~N~/\.~:..::T-~-I~O~N~~AL~~~N~E~_:W-~~S~-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-___________-_-_-----------------~---!..pa~g~e~9---~ 
Suspect shot to death after hijacking school bus 
By NICOLE WINFIELD Stone Crab, a popular restau­Associated Press rant where he worked as a wait­er. MIAMI BEACH, Fla. During the 15-mile chase, po­
A hijaeker with a grudge lice tried to negotiate with him. against tlw IHS commandeered When that failed, they fired at a sehool bus today, taking 11 least three shots, ending the 75­disabled ehildren and the driver minute standoff. on a harrowing ride before "My information is he was not police shot him to death. shot in the bus, he was shot in 
The man, who claimed to have the doorway," said Pat a bomb, led dozens of police Brickman, a Metro-Dade police cruisers along two major high­spokesman. "The bus driver ways, linnlly directing the school said she felt threatened because bus' regular driver to Joe's the subject. when he argued 

Here's a 
HOLriD 


Now you can complement our delicious frozen yogurt with 
Java Coast© Fine Coffees. Just the right ..hot stuff" to give you a warm feeling inside! Available at: 

Campus Shoppes 1837 So. Bend Ave. 271-9540 
• BUY 1, GET 1 FREE! 
with her, he would reach inside lucky nobody was harmed," his jacket. She thought he might Fraind said. shoot her." But at least one student was 
Television video showed police cut by flying glass from a win­swarming around the bus's front dow that was broken when the door and then dragging the sus­suspect was shot, and the stu­pect away. By late morning, the dent was taken to a hospital, of­suspect's bloody body lay in an ficials at the scene said. alley near the restaurant cov­The aide, a diabetic, also was ered with a yellow tarp. taken to a hospital for an insulin 
Police said the hijacker, who shot, they said. worked as a waiter at Joe's Jesse Dunwoody, administra­restaurant and had some tax tor of the South Pointe Manor dispute with the Internal Rev­nursing home across the street enue Service, told police he had from the restaurant, said he and a bomb and threatened to blow 10 staffers watched the drama. up the bus. Police said they de­"I was up on the roof and I termined afterward that the heard the shots. As soon as we device the man had in what po­heard the gunshots we all pulled lice described as a satchel or back," Dunwoody said. handbag was not a bomb. Another witness, who was not 
Dade County schools Superin­identified, told WSVN-TV he tendent Octavio Visiedo said 11 heard four or five shots. students and a driver were on "About 15 cops jumped on top the bus by the time it reached of him," the witness said. "He Miami Beach. An aide, a mother was bleeding from the upper and two other students were on right shoulder and it looked like the bus when it was first from the stomach area. They AP 

During the hijacking, the bushijacked but were let off at two dragged him onto the sidewalk driver kept in radio contact withdifferent stops early on in the and just dropped him. The offi­authorities and passed along the ordeal, authorities said. cers told everyone to step back, I hijacker's demands, said RandyThe 11 children who remained think, because they thought he Egues, a police spokesman. 
on the bus throughout the had a bomb on him." 
The hijacker took the bus
hijacking were described by the Ralph Fernandez, another across the MacArthur Causeway principal as "special needs" stu­Metro-Dade police spokesman, linking Miami and Miami Beachdents with speech impediments. said the man pushed his way 
and led police through the
The children and their parents past a woman trying to put her 
streets of the South Beach
hugged and wept in an emotion­disabled child on at a scheduled 
tourist area. The bus finally
al reunion just before midday at stop. 
stopped outside the landmark
Blue Lakes. "She was helping put the child 1CAPPUCCINO FROZEN YOGURT a One of the children, 7 -year-old on the bus," Fernandez said. restaurant, where the hijacker
I BUY 1 REG. SIZE CAPPUCCINO I BUY , RE:G. CUP OR CONE OF 
had said he wanted to eat lunch,AND GET 1 REG. SIZE CAPPUCCINO I SOFT-SERVE FROZEN YOGURT AND I Brian Morales, was interviewed "She was pushed out of the way Egues said. 
I FREEl GET 1 REG. CUP OR CONE FREEl as he was reunited with his fam­by the individual, who then took 
I (TOPPINGS & TAX EXTAA) I Dozens of police cars, their
ily and would only say the over the bus." 
red and blue lights flashing, sur­hijacker was "a bad person." At one point, the bus stopped
I ~..un.lh~ ~I) .... 1 rounded the yellow bus and
Henry Fraind, a county and let the aide out. The bus 1 ~tt_ ~I ~ ·~·-~~. schools spokesman, said the stopped again and let the moth­police crouched behind them, 
aiming weapons at the bus. 
In Campus Shoppee (t;;;;;jl Campus Shoppes ~; children and the two school er and two students out. The 
"As the bus stopped originally, 
• 1837 So. Bend Ave. ~1 1837 So. Bend Ave. 0..:.:..1 employees escaped serious in­bus stopped again as police 
we attempted to make contact,I 271-9540 271-9540 jury. threw a cellular phone in to help 
negotiate with him," said
!d ffi Ol'fER oPines 11130'" Z 1~ Ee omR EXPIREs 1113om Z I "Fortunately, today we were with negotiations, police said. 
' 

~ 



, 
,W
Schedule for Nove01ber 
domingo, 5 de Noviembre de 1995 
11:30 a.m. Stanford-Keenan Chapel Padre Richard Warner, c.s.c. 

domingo, 12 de Noviembre de 1995 
11:30 a.m. Stanford-Keenan Chapel Padre Patrick Neary, c.s.c. 

domingo, 19 de Noviembre de 1995 
11:30 a.m. Stanford-Keenan Chapel Padre James McDonald, c.s.c. 

Todos Estan Invitados 
-CZ\f'0PU5 1V11NISTRY 
Metro-Dade and Florida Highway Patrol cruisers formed a convoy around the bus as the hijacker directed its driver north on State Road 826 and then east toward downtown on State Road 836, a major east-west highway. 
The bus traveled slowly during the trip on the two major high­ways, trailed by dozens of police cars with flashing lights. Television helicopters hovered overhead and broadcast live shots of the hijacking. 
"The kids were crying throughout and every time the bus would stop, the hijacker would stoop down ... and sur­round himself by the children so that officers could not see any­one was on the bus," Brickman said. 
Brickman, the police spokesman. "We're not sure of all the demands he might have been making." 
After they were rescued, the children were carried crying into the nearby restaurant where they were given ice cream and other goodies. 
"When they got the ice cream, they felt a lot better," said Visiedo, the schools super­intendent. 
Two employees of Joe's told The Associated Press the hi­jacker had worked there as a waiter but walked off the job Wednesday night apparently because of the tax dispute. 
Worried parents raced to the scene in Miami Beach, along with Visiedo. 
"The Best Tan Under The Sun'' 
•Beds, Booths &Euros 
• 
Open 7Days AWeek 

•
Convenient Hours 

•
Student Discounts 


~~ 
256-9656 
Gwlll)Han NwU&Aif 
----~­
Friday, November 3, 1995
page 10 The Observer • NEWS 
of leg room. immediately north of the stadi­Among the other changes to um, will be closed permanently


Expansion Stadiu01 
the stadium: after construction is completed. 
• A new natural-grass field • Additional parking spaces
continued from page 1 
Have
and new goal posts will be have been developed on the


prompts 
added, and new dot-matrix land south of the stadium to you can see Touchdown Jesus scoreboards will be placed at compensate for the 22,000 ad­"If at the south end of the field 
something
from rows 30 and up now, then the north and south ends of the ditional spectators. 
stadium. Construction will continue


changes 
you'll still be able to see it from 
to say?
about 30 more rows up after the • The new press box will be through the next 10 months, 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST expansion," he said. enlarged but will retain the stop for the 1996 season, and Associate News Editor A new wall will be constructed same three levels that it now 
then be completed in time for 

Use Observer 
around the stadium, and the has. The press box will include the September 6, 1997, home The expansion of Notre area between the new wall and up to 300 work stations, up from opener against Georgia Tech. 

classifieds
Dame Stadium will result in the present wall will become the 240; three television booths, up The architectural design of the the permanent closing of the new concourse. from one; and five radio broad­stadium, which opened in 1930, B 1 parking lot around the sta­"The new concourse will have cast booths, up from two. was done by the Kansas City dium beginning Monday. an upper and lower level, and • The Notre Dame locker office of Ellerbe Becket. 
To compensate for the loss of within this new expansion there room will be expanded from spaces, which were used only will be additional restroom facil­3,800 square feet and 70 lockers by faculty and staff members, ities and concession stands," to 8,200 square feet and 105 the University has reconfig­Smith said. "The existing con­lockers. The visiting locker 
ured the parking area south of course will still be there after room will be expanded from 
the stadium and west of the renovation, but it will serve 1,400 square feet and 55 lockers Juniper Road and designated it as just a gathering area." to 3,750 square feet and 75 exclusively for faculty and staff Although the preferred seat­lockers. parking. ing areas in the first few rows • Twenty-eight concession 
Drivers were notified of the will be furnished with theater­stands will be added, bringing changes earlier this summer type seats, all seats in the ex­the total to 48. by a letter from the Office of panded area will be bleachers. • The area immediately 
the Provost. but University These new bleacher seats will around the stadium will be land­parking personnel and police have an extra inch of space on scaped, eliminating the existing officers will be positioned near each side and another six inches parking spaces. Dorr Road, the stadium on Monday and Tuesday to remind drivers of the changes and to direct mo­torists to the appropriate ar­eas. 
"We're certain that some people will have forgotten about the changes," said Phil Johnson, assistant director of Notre Dame Security. 
The off-campus students who 
previously utilized that area 
will now park in the lots due 
south of the Joyce Center. 
With the construction of the 
DeBartolo Quadrangle under­
way, additional parking spaces 
have been lost, bringing the 
total to 7 48. To replace this 
lost parking, 760 new spaces 
were developed by expanding 
the D6 lot on the west side of 
campus and the B2/C2 lot east 
of Juniper Road. 



EXECUTIVE SUITE 
JONES NEW YORK 
Visit our Michigan City, Indiana store to find everything you'll need for upcoming job interviews: 
• 
Suiting for men and women 

• 
Jones New York Shirts & Ties 


• Accessories r-----------------------------------------------------------------------, ! In addition, present this ad 
1' 
at time of purchase & receive... 
1 $10.00 OFF purchase of $100 to $200 
I  $20.00 OFF purchase over $200  
I  
II  Not valid on sale items, accessories or in conjunction with other offers.  

I Expires 12/31/95
L___________________________________________________________. 
707 Lighthouse Place • (219) 879-4789 
\ 
j 
r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~--------------­
Friday, November 3, I 995 The Observer • NEWS page 11 




Columbia astronauts improve space safety 
Aaoc:iated l'rea.s 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. Columbia's astronauts 
. played with fire Thursday. igniting drops of fuel in an experiment designed to improve safety in space and reduce pollution on Earth. 
The fuel burned longer than it would on Earth -more than 40 seconds in some cases -nnd produced more soot than expected. Most of the flames were round, rather than teardrop-shaped, because of the absence of gravity. 
"I don't get to play with fire much up here," said astro· naut Fred Leslie. "I'm kind of enjoying it." 
More than 35 drops of hep· tane or methanol fuel were burned, one at a time, in a doubly contained chamber. 
NASA will use these findings to improve spaceship fire safety. 
The experiment also may help make the burning of fos­sil fuels more efficient on Earth and reduce pollution. 
Columbia and its crew of seven are on a 16-day research flight. They are due back at Kennedy Space Center on Sunday morning. 
~-------------------------------------------------, 






great scores ... 

------· 
I I I 

great skills .•• 
Kaplan students get the most complete test preparation materials available, including computer-analyzed practice tests, home-study materials and a training library. 
Kaplan helps you focus your 
MCAT studies and build your confidence, so you can get a higher score. 
' 
Two classess already full. Enroll Today! 

Call: 1-800-KAP-TEST 
get a higher score 


KAPLAN 
Separatists to stay and fight 
Sovereignty 'still alive' as objective 
By DAVID CRARY 
Associated Press 
MONTREAL 
Quebec's separatists, in a de­fiant strategy switch, decided today to remain in the federal Parliament despite their recent referendum defeat. Their pur­pose: to fight proposals aimed at keeping Quebec in Canada. 
"The objective of sovereignty is more alive than ever before," said separatist leader Lucien Bouchard. "It's more important 
than ever that there are
Quebeckers who truly defend Quebec.... there will be an all­out assault." 
The Quebec bloc has 53 seats in Parliament and is the largest opposition party. Members con­sider the latest federal promis­es to Quebec to be "a decoy," Bouchard said. 
However, Bouchard said he was not ready to make a sec­ond crucial decision -whether he will give up his own seat in 

CELEBRATED EVENTS 
Comprehensive Wedding Coordinatingand Party Planning 
CYNTHIA BASKER 
302 East Donaldson Avenue Mishawaka, Indiana 46545 
R E S E R V E OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS 

Your Uncle Sam. Every year fumy fees. They even pay a flat rate for text­ROTC awards scholarships to hundreds books and supplies. You can also receive of talented students. If you qualify, 
an allowance of up to $1500 each these merit-based scholarships can school year the scholarship is in help you pay tuition and educational effect. Find out today if you qualify: 


ARMY ROTC 
m SMUTEST C:OWGE COURSE YOU W Tm. 
For details, visit 216 Pasquerilla Center or call 631-6986 
Parliament and replace resign­ing Premier Jacques Parizeau as head of Quebec's separatist government. Bouchard said he needed more time to confer with his family. 
"My sons hate the word ref­erendum," Bouchard said . 
The Bloc Quebecois candi­dates were elected to Parlia­ment in 1993 on promises to prepare the ground for the sov­ereignty referendum, then leave their seats. They recon­sidered after the separatists lost Monday's referendum by just 53,000 votes out of 4.6 mil­lion. 
Parizeau announced his res­ignation Tuesday, a day after the bid to break mostly French­speaking Quebec away from Canada failed narrowly. 
Members of Parizeau's Cabi­net said they would welcome Bouchard as the replacement. The parliamentary leader's fiery speeches were credited with pulling the separatists into a dead heat in the referendum campaign after they had trailed badly in the polls. 
The comments by Bouchard and other separatists about at­tempting yet another referen­dum on secession has infuri­ated Canada's prime minister, 
219 258-5482 
Jean Chretien. He is promising the province new privileges if it stays in Canada but warned that he won't tolerate "referen­dums every six months." 
"Canada has a right to politi­cal stability," Chretien said Wednesday night. "That's my constitutional responsibility and I will deliver. because everybody in Canada is paying the price for that." 
Chretien has promised that Parliament, controlled by his Liberal Party, would work quickly on political changes that might satisfy Quebec nationalists. 
In his speech Wednesday night, he said those changes include formal recognition of Quebec as a "distinct society" and a commitment that the constitution would not be amended without Quebec's consent. 
Bouchard said Chretien's lat­est offerings were "grotesque" and not worth discussing. 
Quebec will negotiate with Ottawa on only one basis, he said: "Equal to equal, the day after the next referendum ­which will inevitably be held." 
Chretien signaled that he wouldn't tolerate repeated se­cession referendums, although he did not say how he would prevent them. 
"We cannot play that game where there will be a referen­dum every six months or year or two years until they win and after that there will be no more referendums," Chretien said. 
He urged Canadians across the country to show confidence in Quebec by investing and do­ing business there. 
''I'm asking you to be bullish on Quebec," he said. "Let's show them that Canada can work for them." 
Bouchard has long been pop­ular in Quebec, but he gained near-mythic status last year when he lost a leg to a nearly fatal flesh-destroying disease. 


ttention]uniars!. 
Undergraduate Grants 
Available for Summer Research on Topics Deali with International Studies 
Informational Meeting Monday, November 6, 1995 4:15p.m. DeBartolo 120 
Sponsored by the Kellogg Institute for International Studies 
216 Hesburgh Center 
Phone: 631-6580 page 12 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, November 3, 1995 



Receive a Free 2-dayI 1-night stay and Free breakfast for two* at 

VARSITY CLUBS OF AMERICA ALL·SUITE HOTEL 
I, ! 
I, 


Today! CAllSQ0-483-7900 
Receive a certificate valid for a 2-dayI 1-night stay and breakfast
This Weekend! 
for two for participating in a fun and informative presentation on the benefits of VCA membership, approximately 90 minutes. 
Visit the FREE VCA Tailgate Tent Party on Cartier Field Saturday, November 4 • 11 :00 am -1 : 15 pm 
During the next 12 months, return to VCA and redeem your
..... Anytime! 
certificate for a FREE 2-dayI 1-night stay and breakfast for two. Reservations are confirmed based upon availability. VCA Stadium Sports Lounge • fitness Center Whirlpool Spa • Bocce Ball • 5 Minutes from Notre Dame! 
• Call VCA for great suite rates: 800-483-7900 
.... Always! 
• 
Visit The VCA Stadium for cocktails & appetizers 

• 
Visit VCA for breakfast, great menu served daily 


VARSrrr Cwss OF AMERICA 
Atthe comerof Ea15011 and Main in Mishawaka 
*Advance reservations required, some qualifications apply, call 800-483-7900 
Friday, November 3, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 13 
GOP spending worries majority 
AP poll reveals Medicare cuts as top concern 
By HOWARD GOLDBERG 
As>onatcd Press 
NEW YORK 

Fifty-one percent of Ameri­cans think the Hepublicans' proposals to cut spending go too far, and Medicare is the 
main worry,  an  Associated  
Prnss poll found.  
The  poll  also  found  that  

Americans overwhelmingly doubt the GOP will deliver on a tux cut. In fact, 55 percent think their family's taxes will go up next year as a result of the decisions made in Washington. 
A tax cut of $245 billion over seven years is a central promise of the budget-balanc­ing plans approved by the House and Senate last week and threatened with a veto by President Clinton. 
The poll, taken Friday through Tuesday, asked 1,008 Americans if there any pro­grams they are particularly worried about being cut. 
Medicare is the most fre­quent answer, especially among women. 
It is mentioned by 36 percent of all adults, and 56 percent of those age 55 and older. 
Republican leaders insist they are not cutting Medicare but are holding down its growth to keep the health insurance program for older Americans from running out of money. 
While a majority of those polled think the GOP plans go too far, 30 percent say the spending reductions do not go far enough, and 7 percent say they are about right. 

involved in balancing the bud­get, up from 32 percent in an AP poll in June, when there was more focus on the presi­dent's own budget-cutting plans. 
Some 36 percent put more trust in the Republicans, virtu­ally unchanged from 37 per­cent in June. Eighteen percent don't trust either side. 
The polls were taken by phone by ICR Survey Research Group of Media, Pa., part of AUS Consultants. 
Results have a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points. 
At all income levels, half or more of those surveyed think their taxes will go up. Two­thirds of these people think their taxes will go up more than $50, including 38 percent who expect a rise of more than $100. 
Six in 10 of those who expect a particular tax increase con­sider it unreasonable. 
Diabetes rate triples in al01ost 40 years 
By MALCOLM RITTER 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

The number of Americans with diabetes has risen almost 50 percent since 1983 and the disease rate has tripled since 1958 -in part because the population is getting older and fatter. 
About 16 million Americans now have diabetes, up from 11 million in 1983, Dr. Richard Eastman of the National Insti­tute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases in Bethesda, Md., said Thursday. 
About half of people with dia­betes don't know it because they don't recognize the mean­ing of symptoms such as unex­plained thirst and frequent uri­nation, Eastman said in an interview before presenting the figures at a briefing sponsored by the American Medical Asso­ciation and th{\ American Dia­betes Association. The num­bers come from several federal surveys, he said. 
Left untreated, diabetes can lead to blindnesss, kidney fail­ure and nerve damage. 
"There has been just an in­exorable increase since 1958," said Eastman, director of the institute's division of diabetes, endocrinology and metabolic diseases. 
In 1958, diabetes-occurred in less than 1 percent of the na­tion's population, he said, but now it is up to 3 percent to 4 percent. The increase appears in type II diabetes, which makes up 95 percent of all dia­betes cases. 
One reason for the increase is that more people are in the age range where type II is more prevalent, Eastman said. 
ANC winning early in election 
ByTOMCOHEN 
Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG 
The African National Congress, in charge nationally after winning historic elections last year, appeared poised to­day to take control of local councils as well. 
In sometimes troubled voting that began Wednesday morning and continued past midnight in some areas, South Africans cast ballots in districts that com­bined communities previously segregated by race. 
Many territories once con­trolled by whites now will be governed by black-controlled councils with power to decide what roads to pave and what schools to build. 
It was the second democratic election in South Africa -fol­lowing last year's historic na­tional vote that brought Presi­dent Nelson Mandela and the ANC to power -and the first time blacks and whites voted together for local leaders. 
In early returns from 65 of the almost 700 local council 
RAL ROLLERBLADE SKATES. UNREAL PRICE.
•, 

Now you can experience the joy of skating and the euphoria of saving money. Every year at the end of Summer we sell all of our rental skates at a great price. This year's rental skate was the Rollerblade Bravo GL. The skates have been used. Some a lot. Some not as much. For only $99.95 you score a great fitting Rollerblade skate with Advanced Brake Technology (ABT), all buckle closure, ) ABEC one bearings, and a whole bunch of scratches on the shell which will allow ~ .... \ '·· you to make up stories about how you got this scratch while jumping over the dome, r .,,..,~ and that one from rail sliding through the JACC, and ..... Oh well, you get the picture. ' '· Great price. Great procuct. Get "em before they"re gone! 
.,.,..,. 
•

I •·'·I " '\ ' 
-~
I 
' 

$99.95 
races, the ANC received 58 per­cent of votes cast and was win­ning control of 54 of the coun­cils. 
The white-led National Party that had governed for decades before the ANC was claiming 11 panels, and nonpartisan groups such as local taxpayer associations also were winning several councils. 
While the figures represented only a fraction of the overall vote, the trend favoring the ANC was expected to continue. 
"From the results and the trends of the results that have been coming in, it is quite clear that we are all set for a massive landslide victory," said Mo­hammed Valli Moosa of the ANC, the nation's deputy minis­ter of provincial affairs. 
$2JOO FLAT MONTHLY FEE! for long distance calls to: ELKHART•WAKARUSA BRISTOL•DUNLAP MIDDLEBURY•GOSHEN  
If you're spending more than $23.00 per month for calls, YOU'RE PAYING TOO MUCH! We can start your service today ... START SAVING NOW! NO SPECIAL LINE OR INSTALLATION REQUIRED  


CALL USAT 1-800-360-4990 Mon.-Fri. 'til 6 p.m. 

"Consider the cost of room and board for the next several years. Now, consider $298* per month at North Shore Club" 
A great investmentfor students, parents and alumni. 
• 
Condominiums and townhomes as low as $49,900 

• 
Just minutes from Notre Dame 


Furnished models on display

• Vacation home for game weekends 
Thursday through Monday 1-5 P.M. 
• 
No exterior maintenance or hy appointment 

• 
Beautiful waterfront settings 




for more information 
Call (219) 232-2002 
.~.· ·~··· __ ._·.:1 

VIEWPOINT 
page 14 Friday, November 3, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
John Lucas 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Elizabeth Regan Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ...................... Jen Mackowiak Sports Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary's College. Ir docs nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represenr rhe opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief. Mmaging Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Ediror, Phoro Ediror, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Co~umns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observ<r. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notte Dame/Sainr Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through lerters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 · Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• locAl CoLOR 
The morality of true justice 
Homicide trials have been in the news don't think he even realized he had it. He more than usual lately, and for this reason I closed his big fist around it and jerked his was reminded of the time a family connection hand out of his pocket and s~ashed Bobby in of ours killed a man. It was a case that never the face. When he did the gun went off and came to trial. I was about ten when it hap­Bobby fell down dead, right at his feet." pened, and I've never forgotten the moment Frank picked him up in his arms, and laid when I heard the news -that desperate him in the back seat of his car. He drove to feeling of wanting things to be different, and the hospital where Bobby was pronounced suddenly understanding that things happen dead, then he went to the police station and in life that can never, ever be set right again. turned himself in. 
This is a true story, although the names If you're looking for a moral to this story, used have been changed. 
there isn't one. Bobby 
Frank was a relation had been hated and by marriage rather than despised by most of the blood. He was a giant of people in town. There a man. and a meat cut­was a grand jury inves­
Carol 
ter by trade. A man of tigation, but no charges uncertain temper, and a were ever filed. In the mean drunk. My fatMr end, the consensus of
Bradleyremembers him flat­opinion was that it had tening out a total been rough justice, that stranger in a bar one Frank had just done night, just because the what somebody else guy staggered past their table and mumbled would have had to do sooner or later. Bobby something Frank took as an insult. That's was buried and mourned by his mother, just the way he was, my father says. The maybe. They gave Frank his gun back and kind of man who's great in military combat, he went home. and nothing but trouble in times of peace. We talked about the incident twenty-five 
Bobby was a local bully who enjoyed tor­years later, after Frank died peacefully in his menting anybody smaller and weaker than hospital bed from lung cancer. My aunt had he was. Frank's son had gotten the worst of visited him in the hospital that day. He had it from Bobby in a dirty fight the week before been asleep all the other times she had the killing. Bobby's friends had held the stopped by, but this time he was sitting up in boy's arms behind his back while Bobby beat bed, and they talked for a while. He died him senseless. A week later the two crossed that same evening. She said that sometimes paths again, at an unchaperoned party out at they come back like that, right at the end. the lake. This time the boy didn't take it We sat in her living room and talked, she lying down. He went home and told his and my father and I, and my father told the father old story again, just the way I've told it to 
"He didn't need the gun," my father says, you. Of course in his version, the events of by way of explanation. "Frank could have that long ago night have all the inevitability killed Bobby with his bare hands. Lord of an earthquake, or any other natural disas­knows why he did it, but on the way out the ter. My aunt patiently heard him out, but door that night he picked up a .38 caliber when he finished his story, she gave him pistol and put it in his pocket. what used to be called an old fashioned look. 
"I know what happened just as sure as if "Well," she said, "I still don't see why he I'd been there myself. Frank stopped his car took the gun that night, if he hadn't meant to and walked over to Bobby. And Bobby did use it." something he never should have done, he Writer and photographer Carol Bradley taunted him. Frank had a violent temper, teaches magazine writing at Saint Mary's and I know that when his hand came out of and can be reached via e-mail at: his pocket, he had that gun in his hand. I carol. c. bradley. 7@nd.edu 

The heart ofNotre Dame spirit 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to the onslaught of criticism being thrust upon the present student body by Notre Dame fans and alumni who feel that today's students are just too quiet; that school spirit is waning and stu­dents are disinterested because visiting quarterbacks can execute and audible. I have examined the status of school spirit at Notre Dame, and I am well aware that today's students are indeed less boisterous than those in years past. 
Nonetheless, I am annoyed by the Keith Penrod letter that stated "this student body is one of the worst." On the contrary, Penrod, I would argue that this student body is one of the best -not because of the noise we make when an opponent is facing third and short or when the Irish are driving for a game winning score, but for the noise we don't make during d particular moments when the unity and class of Notre Flame student'S1 shines brilliantly. 
In case those critics who have been hounding this season's "silent" stu­dent body were not there to see it, a moment during last week's Boston College game captured exactly what school spirit at Notre Dame is about. It wasn't a moment of stadium-shaking noise and enthusiasm, but rather it was a moment of complete and utter silence. Prior to the game, the entire stadium observed a moment of silence to remember a friend who was recently taken from the Notre Dame family. Senior Rob Adams was not a football star or a famous alumni -he was a friend. A friend that the student body remembered Saturday afternoon with a poignant moment of silence. For a short while, the stadium sounded as if it were empty. No one stirred. No one spoke. Everyone showed the respect and concern that is the essence of the spirit here at Notre Dame. I have seen raucous crowds and insanely spirited student sections at NO, but never have I been more impressed with the spirit of the student section in Notre Dame Stadium than last Saturday, when no one said a thing. 
Sure, the student section today might be slacking in their role as that mythical "twelfth man," but those close to the University know that noise has nothing to do with school spirit. Football is undoubtedly and rightful­ly a big part of this school -it puts Notre Dame on the map, it brings money into the school, and, on six autumn weekends, it makes going here a particularly special and exciting opportunity. But I would suggest that those who see the spirit of Notre Dame as nothing more than the four hours of ranting and raving at football games have no concep~ of what the spirit here is about. It's about unity, respect, concern and faith. Cheering and winning is great, but keep things in perspective. I could have even handled a third consecutive loss to BC after witnessing that pre-game act oflove.that is at the heart of Notre Dame. 
In talking with a visiting friend from BC, she remarked that what most impressed her with her Notre Dame weekend was not the pep rally, the tailgating, the band or the game, but that for a short time she could have heard a pin drop in a stadium filled to capacity. I am glad that in just one weekend she was able to see what Notre Dame is really about. Remember, Penrod, anyone can yell. I applaud my fellow students. the classiest and quietest student body around. 
R. THOMAS COYNE 
Junior Fisher Hall 
•  llOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  • QUOTE OF THE DAY  
MIKe, I'M SORRY I HUI<T YOU. IT WASN'T5UPPCJ5CP 707lJRNaJT 7HATWAY...  I THOUGHT I IAJA'3 MAKIN6 ~lNG 7Ri171-1Fl/t.­A Pl&a A/JOUT PmPI£ CAUGHT IN 7HI3 ACT OF EXPR£551/Ik3 THeiR l?EAl-FtE/..IN65! '\.  I KNOW WHAT YOU'RE 7HINK­/NG-7HAT I WA~ 813/NG5/3t.F­INVOL-VW ANOGRANI?IOSC, 7HAT AU I CAR£/?ABafT!A£1?& MY OWN N&WS. 8UTI I?OV'TAGR£/3·  "consider anything, only don't cry!" -Lewis Carroll  

VIEWPOINT
Friday, November 3, 1995 
page 15 

• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Fan praises Notre Dame kindness Wisdom on s irit 
Dear Editor: the Vanderbilt ticket office and the four tickets were Fed Exed to 
p

I just wanted to write to say received them with one problem; Jim to be exchanged. The four Dear Editor: thank you to an individual in the the tickets were for the fifty ninth nineteenth row tickets were faith­What is all this talk of school spirit being down? I was firstticket office named Jim who did a row, and he walks with a cane. fully returned a few days later as aware of Notre Dame as a special place during my childhood great favor to my father. Knowing that it might dissuade promised. The trip was made, in the 1940s, then as a rival college student in the '50s, as aMy dad has always been a huge my father from attending, my and my dad's lifelong dream of parent of ND students in the '80s and now the spouse of anNotre Dame fan. Being the brother subsequently placed a seeing Notre Dame play on their ND student in the '90s (Mom is finally getting her chance tonephew and cousin of Notre call to someone named Jim in home field was realized. 
get an education).

Dame gradu-your ticket office That trip to South Bend meant My own father would slip me words of wisdom every onceates and about exchanging a lot to my father. Not only was in awhile; one of them was. "Son, never bet against NotreCatholic as 'Everyone was polite the tickets. Jim Jim exceptionally helpful, but it Dame." When I took my own children to see ND play, Iwell. the school was sympathetic was also noticed that the fans at would say, "See this is like life. The game is never over tillhas always and extremely to the problem the game and outside of the stadi­it's over. The worse the score, the harder you play. Thisheld a special friendly, similar to what and suggested urn were a world apart. Everyone team may lose, but we have come to see how winners playplaee in his that he call the was polite and extremely friendly, the game." 
heart, as well we call Southern hospi-ticket office at similar to what we call Southern Now I stand with my wife in the student section. (At the as in the hearts tality. After holding sea-Vanderbilt first, hospitality. After holding season age of 55 she knows how the game of life is played. She has
of my family. son tickets to since the tickets tickets to Vanderbilt's football 
heard a call to the priesthood both from within and from the But being loyal were received games for years, the difference in community in which she has ministered. The M.Div. degree
to our home-Vanderbilt's football from them. Then, the demeanor of the fans was 
she will receive in May puts her in a position to be ordained town team in games for years, the dif-if that was not very noticeable (Let's just leave it when the Church has the courage to do so. A hopelessNashville, he successful, to call at that!). 
dream you say. "Where's is your spirit?", she would
also faithfully ference in the demeanor back. A call was Our team did not lose that day. 
respond. "Don't you know the game isn't over till it's
supported the of the fans was very then placed to Although Vanderbilt is closer to over?"). There are a few in the student section that are more
athletic pro-Vanderbilt, and home, Notre Dame is closer to 
interested in playing grab-ass and talking trash. But the vast gram at noticeable.' after my brother our hearts, now more than ever. 
number of students are really into the game. They know the V a n d e r b i I t explained the sit-The SEC has much to learn from team; they yell a lot; and they never leave early regardless of University as well. His excitement uation and what Jim from the your program, perhaps in more the score.
was unfounded when it was Notre Dame ticket office had said, ways than one. God, not the AP I suppose not everyone has had the spirit-filled experience announced several years ago that the person at Vanderbilt replied, poll, made Notre Dame number of ND that I have had. Sorry about that, but never betthe two teams would meet in the "Well that is just not how we do one. Go Irish. 
against Notre Dame. 

shadows of the Golden Dome in things in the SEC." Another call 
JOHNHOUK

1995, was placed to South Bend, and STEFANI£ HOLMES 
South Bend 

lie ordered four tickets through with great trust in a higher being, Memphis, TN 
Hockey needs dose ofND spirit from fans 
Dear Editor: Michigan's game last season. Excitement hung in the air. The fan's 
llave you ever heard the screams of 2,667 voices raised in an enthusiasm fed the players and they responded by defeating the exeited frenzy? Well. the Irish leers didn't at Friday's game against number one team in the CCHA. In my section, five fans strutted, Boston College. sporting Michigan jerseys and an arrogance found only in the likes 
Maybe the fans wanted to save their voices for Saturday's football of Miami players (that's Miami, FL for you hockey fans). After seat­
gamn, maybe they forgot that rivalries are not always fought on ing themselves in front of my dad, my roommate and me, they 
grass, maybe the band had other plans, maybe there is no volume began their cheers by claiming that Matt Eisler's mother thought he 
button on the organ, or maybe, just maybe, the fans forgot where sucked the rest of the Irish leers were not even fit for figure skates. 
tlwy were and who they are. We put a stop to that nonsense by mocking their comments and 
The laek of enthusiasm frustrated me. I have heard more noise on players. We were not the only ones to express our opinions. This the S(leond floor of llesburgh than I heard from Friday's sellout sold out crowd's cheers of "Let's go Irish" and "overrated" not only erowd. It irritated and embarrassed me to hear the familiar "Let's raised the North Dome, they silenced the opposition and encour­go Irish" perverted by BC fans into "Let's go Eagles." Hockey fans aged Notre Dame to score twice as many goals as the Wolverines. should not need prompting by mascots (although the Leprechaun Loud home crowds shake the opposing team's confidence while also seemed to be missing) to make a little noise and never by the charging the home team onward to victory. Beautiful passes, amaz­opposing fans. ing saves and solid checks should be praised with the enthusiasm of 
The sport of hockey is not confined within the boards and glass; it a scored goal. The Irish Hockey team needs to feel that they are thrives on fan participation. Hockey gives each of us a great oppor­performing before their home crowd and not hanging out in the tunity to release the heckler that hides within us. Sarcasm and a library. We have a great new coach, a new exciting offensive play­quick wit are two highly appreciated commodities in a hockey fan. If ing style, an impressive freshman class, an extremely talented the refs make bad calls, the crowd's disapproval should make the group of upperclassmen, heck, we even have new bleachers refs feel that not only is that eye exam a good idea; but, the walk (although the ushers need to relax some), so let's make some noise! from the ice to the loeker room should resemble a sprint. Friday, Notre Dame battles the Broncos of Western Michigan. It 
Opposing players should definitely be heckled and, if this involves promises to be a great game. Let's let our guys know we are out eatcalls. wolf whistles and insults to their mothers. then so be it. there. Let's shake down a little thunder in the JACC. Silent majori­Don't get me wrong, I am not condoning or encouraging poor ties are fine in politics, but they have no place in hockey. sportsmanship. However. hockey is hockey and obnoxious can go a long way before it turns sour. DESIREE LEAK 
Trash talking the opposing fans into silence leaves one with a spe­Junior cial feeling of achievement. I recall the intensity of the University of McCandless Hall 

• CAPITOL COMMENTS 
In memoriam: Eulogy for my ND classmate, Herb Eastman 

Any male who has lived in a Notre Dame dormitory has had a Herb Eastman in his section. Herb was a low key Midwestern guy who had a passion for justiee, a heart of gold, and a love of mankind within him that sparkled when he spoke. Herb was also the first of my fllllow Notre Dame classmates with whom I had livnd 
to pass on to the 
hear that distinctly­next life. Herb laugh, even 
I always thought when we teased him about the day for being a Hoosier.
Gary

when onn of the Herb opposed the gang would be the Vietnam War and first to die, but I had an intense
Caruso 

rwver knnw who it interest in American might lw -or if it politics. He detest­would he nw. If I ed Richard Nixon 
had any idea that it would he llerb, I don't know if I would have treated him any differently or said any more to him. I am certain that I would have kept in closer touch with him over the ynars. I know now that running into him every live years at a rnunion wasn't enough, especially since I missed the last reunion to attend my parnnts fiftieth wedding anniversary. Now ten years between visits will become eternity. 
Young men in their late teens and early twenties are usually a mix of laughter and mischief. They also des­perately want to be accepted by their peers. Herb was no exception. He had a dry sense of humor and laughed at almost every joke -a true and genuine 
laugh. I can still 
and the Republican political agenda. On several occasions he emphatically challenged "those 'blanking' capitalistic pigs" during dis­cussions we had in the dorm. Herb would maintain his cool until he got worked up so much that he would throw in a few expletives for emphasis. At that point I knew Herb was on a roll and to avoid disagreeing with him. 
Volunteering to help-ot-hBrs came nat­urally to Herb. It was fitting that he entered the field of law and helped those who most needed him but could pay the least. I'll never know what he thought of the O.J. Simpson trial, but then again, that was not his style of law practice. I am certain that he was gen­erous during his law career like he was during his college years. 
At one of our more-often-than-we­should-have all-night bull sessions. we once discussed death and the after­world. Our friend Steve Pallucca said he thought that heaven and hell were the same place, a street full of movie the­aters with one name on each marquee. You could only enter the one with your name on it and watch your life played over and over throughout eternity with no escape. If you had lived a good life. you were in heaven. If not, hell. 
I personally have thought many times that hell just might be here on earth. We all were growing up or "maturing" while in college. We were stumbling through a terrible social situation at an all-male Notre Dame that should have become coeducational a decade earlier. I could see the occasional hurt caused by rejection on Herb's face, but Herb seemed stronger inside than most of us. He definitely handled rejection better than I did, and he set an example I admired. 
Herb also accepted his human flaws with grace. During his eollege years his hairline rivaled Carl Reiner's, and I could tell that his baldness hurt him. Yet he accepted it early on and was comfortable being himself despite facing a daily media barrage to the contrary. never thought of his hair loss as a flaw. To me, it was Herb, and we all loved him because of his uniqueness. 
I remember Herb as a dear friend and a very decent human being. He was a religious person when I knew him, and I imagine he was spiritually strong to the end. He was funny, respeetful, gracious, opinionated and generous. If I walk the street of theaters after my death, I'll first try the door of the one marked "Herb Eastman" because I know that it leads to heaven. From all the guys, God bless you, Herb. We'll miss you. 
Gary Caruso. ND 73, worked at the 
U.S. House for eighteen years and is now a publicist with the International Union of Electronics Workers in Washington. D.C. 

f 
page 16 The Observer-ACCENT Friday, November 3, 1995 
Behind the scenes with ... 

Getting down with the Bane 
T
tryouts. For the marching half of tryouts, each u together and the members are judged on marchin~ New members of the band must also pass a play he Notre Dame Marching Band is one of the greatest that stresses adeptness at the instrument and sl alarm clocks ever invented. No alumnus will ever forget Even those who have never been in a band befoJ the thrill of waking up to the sound of the fight song right ample opportunity to become members based on 1 outside their window. From the morning serenade to the play­technique. ing of the alma mater at the end of the game, the Marching There is simply not enough room in the stadiur Band has become one of the most important parts of the Notre funding to facilitate all of the prospects for the ban Dame football experience. how talented they may be. However, there are stil 
The early-morning playing of the fight song is only one of hundred members, and only about sixteen to eight many traditions of the oldest collegiate band in the country. cut. Each week, section leaders, who help organu For instance, the concert on the steps of the Dome goes back hers, give the director the marching order for 1 to the days when the band still practiced in the basement of Saturday. "Every person marches in one of the' Washington Hall. Because of the limited space available in the there are usually about twelve to fifteen people Y.1l building, the concert was introduced as a means of allowing at each event. Once again, it is impossible to ac the band to run through the material in an open space. Now, everyone with the space available," Snavely expl · of course, the band has an entire building in which to fit all of Unlike most schools, the Notre Dame Marching the members, yet the tradition is still preserved. en masse for road trips and bowl games. With all 
The band itself is awake long before it marches through ments to be made, it is certainly a procedure to get campus to wake everyone else. They have what is traditionally the bowl. Christmas break is one of the major cal known as "Cap'n Crunch" breakfast in the dining hall on the culties as band members are spread throughout th morning of the game. And, of course, as Director Luther becomes necessary to arrange for individual trans Snavely puts it, "After the band marches into the stadium. it is the bowl for each member. In addition, all of th the signal for everyone else to enter;" must be packed up and driven to the bowl ahead o 
The dedication of band members .is clearly shown by their Every time the Marching Band performs, it is arrival on campus three to four days before orientation week­countless hours of work have gone into preparatio end begins. During band camp, each section is divided into haps the band's most important moment comes o units of about sixteen people, freshmen included. They are sounds of the alma mater drift through the stadiu given a prescribed marching routine in order to prepare for the fans and making hours of hard work pay off. 
The 
@[?@@ rJ®Gflfl © 
0 0 By JASON MAI.ARTSIK 
Accent Writer 

By COURTENAY MYERS interact with and inspire the fans. He s"ys that he. has a spe­n an average game day, 700 Accent Writer cial tie to the children in the crowd: "If I can provJ,de even the file into the stadium as ea slightest hope for them, sharing the joy and love I have for life a.m. to prepare for the day's
O 

every football game. rain or with them, then I have done my job." . _ Of these 700 men, over 500 of the shine, the leprechaun is present Sotis does anything that he can for ND fans. '"l'he toughest receive a salary. However, they al 
o represent the University of part of my job is saying, 'No, l am sorry, I cannot ~ign a hat or something that they enjoy much m Notre Dame's spirit and tradition. Yet take a picture because we need to be somewhere.' because I a few dollars an hour. This is the· the leprechaun is more than just a appreciate all the fans and I don't want to short change any to be a part of a Notre Dame symbol-he is also a student. one of them, especially the little Domers." game.
He is Jamey Sotis, a senior resident of Whether at home or on the road, the fans are always behind By kick-off, the ushering s Stanford Hall. Last April, Sotis tried out him to support the team. ND spirit never gives up, from the already been at work for sever for the position of the leprechaun, small crowd at the Washington game, to themammoth show The responsibility of every usher competing against other interested of support in the home stadium. Sotis only asks one favor: just in ensuring that every spectastudents in a mock pep rally. He was for"the seniors and juniors to stop merely spectating and be-his or her seat easily. They also required to dance the Irish jig, pre­come active fans for the sake of the university, the fans them­please over 50,000 people on a sent a three to five minute creative pre­selves, and, more importantly, the team. I don't like to see weekly basis-an extremely difficu sentation, complete an interview them only be reactionary fans ... ifthis upsets some, I apologize. Art James, the Director of S with a panel of judges and be I am only trying to encourage, that's all." Personnel, is largely responsible fo judged on his physical Sotis has high hopes for the remainder of the ing that the ushers attain the goaresemblance to a lep­football season. Before the USC game, he predict­isfying each and every person in t rechaun. Sotis also need­ed that a victory over USC would mean that Notre urn. James, who has been a memb ed to be able to grow a Dame could easily defeat the Boston College, stadium's ushering staff for forty y beard, perform the Navy, and Air Force teams. He hopes to see ND the director since 1982, has been touchdown push-ups, victorious in a battle against Miami in the Orange gral part of many changes that ha 
and have the skills Bowl in January. place within the stadium over the necessary to perform The USC game was definitely one of the years. For instance, thanks to Ja before a large crowd. most exciting for Sotis thus far. "It was ushers are now easily identified Being the leprechaun [an) incredible blessing from the Lord: a bright yellow jackets. These not o gives Sotis the chance to victory, cold weather so I could wear the the ushers more visible, but theyshare his love for Notre hat my aunt made me, and the fans the usher protection from the Dame with others. He were crazy." Other things, such as maintaining 
says, "I love the students After graduation Sotis hopes to take tary-style hats in blue, white, or at Notre Dame. I love the part in the Alliance for Catholic part of the uniform as well as a rna atmosphere of being in the Education. He says, "I do have a vision for dress code of shirt and tie, enable stadium, in the tunnel a youth camping ministry possibly in Northern ers to be easily seen. with the band, running Minnesota, my home state, in which I want to take all 
The seating area is not the onl out onto the field in front those youths whom people have written off ... and change where ushers can be found. The 
of the team carrying the their lives for Jesus Christ." 
are also responsible for taking tic 
ND flag high-all those For now, Jamey Sotis influences the ND students and the door, guarding all entrances bo are tremendous benefits fans through his spirited performances on game days. In the field and into the stadium, as to the position." Sotis the future, he will use his spirit and leadership to con­security in the press box, dressing uses every available tinue to positively affect the lives of young people. and tunnel. They also keep an eyeminute of the game to 
buses of both the Notre Dame and 
Friday, November 3, 1995 The Observer•ACCENT page 17 

Managing as best they can 

student managers are chosen to continue on sure everything is ready. Once it's game time,Student managers give into their junior year. During their junior year, the managers head out onto the field with the each manager is assigned to work three prac­team. During the game, they help out withtheir all ... on the field tice days a week. Managers spend an average whatever is needed. The head manager carries of 20 hours a week working practices. Before the extension cord for Lou's headset as he practice, the managers are either assigned to paces the sidelines. After the game, the man­and in the classroom set up the locker room or to report to the field. agers stay behind for a couple of hours and put 
A manager assigned to the locker room has to away all the equipment. Sometimes, they'll
By PAT MITSCH
or enough 
arrive there at noon. This basically involves have to send the game tape to the next oppo­
Accent Writer 

. no matter 
going to practice straight from morning class­nent or break down game film with the coach­
over three 
es. In the locker room, the manager must es.
N
ommon dream for any sports fan is to
ptmple are 
make sure that everything needed for practice At the end of their junior year, the student
e on the field with the team during the 
the mem­
is ready. managers are once again asked to rank their
arne. For a certain group of Notre
he coming 
Field managers must report to practice at fellow managers. The top three become foot­
Dame students, being on the field with the
nts, but 
2:30 p.m. There they are assigned to help the ball managers, with the top manager becoming 
team is part of the job. They work behind the 
marching 
various coaches run drills with the players. the head manager. The next two managers
scenes, help out at the practices and do all the 
They then make sure everything is put away after the top three become basketball man­
dirty work. They are the varsity student man­
and ready for the next practice. After dinner agers, and the rest of the managers become
agers. 

with the team, they're back in their rooms the top managers of the other varsity sports. 
Everyone who signs up to be a student man­
around 8 p.m. This is the routine everyday The seniors receive tuition aid for their senior 
ager freshman year gets to work for at least 
until the Friday before a home football game. year with the head manager receiving 100
their sophomore year. As sophomores, the 
On those Fridays, the managers all converge percent of tuition and the other two football
managers are assigned to work for various 
on the locker room around 3 p.m. and begin to managers receiving 7 5 percent. Other senior
sports and do pre-game preparations for the 
set up for the game the next day. The helmets managers receive tuition aid ranging from 65­
football team, including the legendary painting 
are painted and the lockers are set up for the 75 percent. 
of the helmets. 

players. Anything that needs to be done before But, of course, the biggest reward for the
The big moment for student managers comes 
kickoff is worked on then. The managers may managers is the once in a lifetime opportunity
at the end of their sophomore year. All of the 
work until midnight or sometimes even later. to be on the field with the team as it marches 
managers come together and rank each other. 
When game day rolls around, the managers onward to victory.
From those self-evaluations, the top nineteen 
arrive at the locker room at 8 a.m. and make 
shers The Irish Guard 
teams. Even with all of these re­sponsibilities, the ushers still find time to By BETSY BOWMAN ed in military fashion. They must stand at assist the stadium's medical stations and Accent Wri[er attention while the Guard's captain, Brad Metz, IF» 
lhers be responsible for the wheelchair seating checks that each tassel, buckle, button and fold as 7 areas located in sections one through eight o far this football season, four of the five is in its proper place. Some guardsmen have ~ ents. and 32. Several individuals have praised schools the Irish have played have brought even been dry shaved with a Bic razor during , not the ushers for their operation of the wheel­Stheir marching bands to South Bend, inspection. After the captain's inspection, for­C» ~eive chair seating areas and their general help­accompanied by a troupe of twirlers, mer guardsmen are invited to inspect this ;han fulness. tossers, and dancers. Vanderbilt's year's guard. -r 
mce Leo Pasman, the senior captain in sec­dancing girls, the Texas flag twirlers, "A lot of times they just fix things that don't ball tion 19 in the south end-zone, has been a and of course, the USC "Show Girls," need to be fixed, just to do it," explained cur-E: 
member of the ushering staff since the have all performed in the stadium rent guardsman Matt Gorman, "but overall has opening of Notre Dame Stadium in 1930. that Rockne built. 
they're pretty good about it. It's a way that c: illrS. In his 65 years, Pasman has seen the leg­And then there is Notre Dame. they can show support for this year's guard not endary teams and the remarkable plays as have tall guys in kilts. And we think the while at the same time reminding everyone -r \nds well as the tremendous rise in ticket other teams are strange! about the tradition involved." Inspection ·e to prices. Imagine what visiting fans must think happens a half hour before the band con­c::JJ nost Back in the thirties during the era of when our band marches out accom­cert on the steps of the administration ,.. lk. Knute Rockne, none of the ushers were on panied by ten rather tall men wearing F& ium the payroll. They were volunteers whose plaid skirts. Maybe this is one tradition Not only is the Irish Guard itself unique 
'~ 

ISUf­work allowed them to watch their favorite that could use a little explanation. among University marching bands. but sat-team participate on the gridiron. As an So, for all you first time visitors to also the guard's plaid is unique among tadi­added incentive, Knute Rockne would Notre Dame, (or for anyone else plaids. It's actually trademarked fthe gather these "pick-up" ushers, as they who had always wondered but and copyrighted as the University's 
~ 

. and were called, and give them a pep talk just was too embarrassed to ask) here official plaid. The plaid's colors are lnte­as he did his players. At that time a ticket is the story on the.t unique Notre green, which represents the 
F

aken between the 25 yard lines cost at most $5 Dame tradition known as the Irish Fighting Irish, blue and gold for t few while an end-zone seat cost merely $1.50. Guard. Notre Dame, red for the Church , the Beyond the great coaches, players, wins In 1949, during the marching and The Congregation of the Holy their and even defeats lies Leo Pasman's band's 104th season, the Irish Guard was Cross, and black to delineate the lines of the nake favorite part of being an usher, "Being an brought in to add a little more color and cere­other colors. 
•

give usher for all these years has allowed me to mony to the band's performances. Originally, The guard's costume weighs over thirty IF&.ther. meet so many people." Leo is not alone in they not only marched alongside the band, but pounds, and when they are wearing the shako tmili­this feeling. In fact, the ushers at Notre they played tqe bagpipes as well. However, (aka the big tall hat) they stand over eight feet A:_ ld as Dame Stadium have ushered games for an when the sub-zero temperatures of South Bend tall. The kilt (no, it's not a skirt) along with the ,atory average of 20 years per person, and nearly winters repeatedly broke the instruments' rest of the costume is consistent with Irish law ~ 'ush-all of them say that they stay because of reeds, that aspect of the guard's performance concerning the use of color in clothing. 
I 

the people. So, the next time you walk in to was abandoned. The Irish Guard adds even more ceremony 
-

place Notre Dame Stadium remember that, even Currently there are ten members of the Irish and color to the already rich tradition of Notre .shers though it may not seem important to you, Guard, each of whom must be at least 6 feet 2 Dame football and the oldest college marching ets at the ushers take their job very seriously inches tall. They march onto the field behind band in the nation. .:::. 1• onto and really work to ensure your happiness. the drum major but before the band and Gorman says, "I'll gladly take all the staring rell as And if you get a chance, stop by section 19 remain on the field during the band's perfor­and joking about 'those guys in skirts' for the rooms, and say hello to Leo Pasman. He'll be more mance, marching alongside them or standing feeling of running out of the tunnel before a 
.........J'·' 

n the than happy to speak with you. You might at attention. game and knowing that I'm representing Notre 
···~

siting even learn something. Before each game the Irish Guard is inspect-Dame in a positive way." 
page 18 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS Friday, November 3, 1995 
•NFL 
Oakland's prolific offense set to invade Cincinnati 
By JOE KAY 
~iated Press 
CINCINNATI 

The Oakland Raiders' new of­fense has more ways to hurt a team. It may get to use them all Sunday. 
The Raiders have diversified under first-year coach Mike White, backing off the "throw it deep" philosophy that had been part of the team's identity. Instead, quarterback Jeff Hostetler looks more for high­percentage passes that take advantage of whatever a de­fense gives. 
No one gives quite as much as the Cincinnati Bengals, whose pass defense is on pace to set an NFL record for yards al­lowed. Cincinnati couldn't stop Chris Chandler (four touch­downs, 23-for-26 passing), Dan Marino ( 450 yards passing) or rookie Eric Zeier (310 yards last Sunday in his first start). 
The Raiders don't exactly air it out as much anymore. They're enjoying a better sea­son because they've learned how to spread it around instead of just airing it out. 
Oakland (6-2) has incorpo­rated its running backs and shorter passing routes into the equation, with good results. Hostetler is completing 61 per­cent, and the Raiders are on target for more than 4,000 yards passing. Both figures are substantial improvements over last year. 
"We're still able to throw deep," said Hostetler, who has recovered from a throat injury sustained two weeks ago. 
"We're taking what people are giving us at times, then attack­ing them when we want. 
The Bengals (3-5) can't do much of anything defensively, one of the biggest reasons they're floundering for a fifth consecutive year. The defensive line doesn't get sustained pres­sure on the quarterback, and the weak secondary can't cover very well. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES  ' • * FREE TRIPS & CASH ' • * Find out how hundreds of students  Luxurious Knollwood Park Villa For Rent or Sale, 51221 Oak Hill Ct. Open House Sunday 2 till 4  4 CHEAP NAVY GA's Call Anytime 4-0596 Ask for Will or JJ  I have 2 Navy GA's for sale call Scot at x2011  ADOPTION ... INTERESTED IN HEARING MORE?? Warm, professional indiana couple,  
are already earning FREE TRIPS  Marzena Walicka 271-1474 or 235­ I need 1 navy tickect, GA or  lots of experience with children,  
Shop TALBOTSI this game week­ and LOTS OF CASH with  3018 Shappee Reality 271-2004  HELP!!!!! I NEED 2 NAVY TIXI!III  student. Call Chris, X1741  would love to talk to you about what  
end+nw/mall on  America's #1 Spring Break compa­ My last home game at NO!!II!I  we can offer your precious child.  
.....  Cleveland+272.0058+mention this  ny! Sell only 15 trips and travel !reel  Need 1 roommate now & 1 more  Cali Patrick @ 234-3468  2 Navy Vietnam Era Vets need tick­ Stability, nurturing, love of teaming,  
ad  Choose Cancun, Bahamas,  next sem. $195 Turtle Creek 273­ ets for NO-Navy.  travel, lots of extended family, and  
Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL NOW!  2366  I need NAVY tickets badly! Please  Go Irish!!!  full-time mom are just some of the  
Mark's Towing  TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAV­ call JOE 273-3981  Call collect 515-842-5750.  things that your child would experi­ 
Roadside Service, Tire Changing,  EL (800)95-BREAKI  Two bedroomed apartment for rent.  ence in our home. Interested in  
Jumpstarts,Many Services ..  1.2 miles from Hesburgh Library.  For Sale:  GUllTY-No tix. Promised the  hearing more? CALL US (day or  
We Accept Checks & Charge  TRAVEL ABROAD AND WORK­ Very safe area. Possibility of keep­ 1 Navy stud tix  "Old Man· I would take him to one  night). Expenses paid. Theresa &  
Student & Senior Discounts  Make up to $25-45/hr. teaching  ing horse or pet. 631-5118 or 277­ chris 287-8648  last game at the house that Rock  Lee 1-800-600-8428.  
• Damage Free Towing  basic conversational English in  5828.  Built. NEED TWO FOR NAVY. Will  
• 24 Hours • Motor Club Servicer  Japan, Taiwan, or S. Korea. No  SALE  pay fair cost & reimburse tor call.  $5.50 HAIRCUT  
Ph#(219)271-2382  teaching background or Asian lan­guages required. For information  FOR SALE  4 50 yd In TIX  Cali (812)739-4408. Leave mes­sage if no answer.  VITO'S BARBER SHOP  
For more information and assis­ call: (206)632-1146 ext. J55841  for NAVY  1525 UNCOLNWAY WEST  
tance regarding the investigation of  NO Ski Team T-Shirtsl  2 NAVY TIXS FOR SALE.235-3394  
financing, business opportunities  ALASKA EMPLOYMENT ­ -'*....-*...........-.-.-.-*-*-* -·.....,-.-*-*-* ..  2718154  233-4767  
and work-at-home opportunities,  Students Needed! Fishing Industry.  Really cool and only $10!  NEED Navy GA's!!l Call Greg  
The Observer urges its readers to  Eam up to $3,000-$6,000+ per  Call Potter @ 232-2955 today!!!  For Sale: 2 Navy GA's. 273-9838  at 287-0578  
contact the Better Business Bureau  month. Room and Board!  AMY CODRON IS 21111!1!111111111  
of Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd.,  Transporationl Male or Female. No  Great for you, your roomie. or  I NEED 2 NAVY GA'S  SELL ME 1 NAVY TKT student  Happy Birthday Scorpio!  
Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­ experience necessary. Call  Christmas presents!  Call Ryan #1239 -PLEASE  or GA Call Tom x1419  Tonight is eveyone's 21st as far  
4200; or call the BBB at 219/277­ (206)545-4155 extA55842  as we're concerned.  
9121 or 800/439-5313.  Elect guitar perfect cond $225 obo  I NEED STUD  1 NAVY STD TIC 4 SALE  Love ya,  
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ amp free 273-5380  NAVYTIX  BILLY@ 273-4212  Julie and Claudia  
Spring Break Bahamas Party  Seasonal & full-time employment  273-5281  
Cruise! Early Specials! 7 Days  available at National Parks, Forests  •••HELP*HELP*HELP*HELP"*  
$279! Includes 15 Meals & 6  & Wildlife Preserves. Benefits +  88 Toyota Tercei,68k, air,exl con.  I have 1 student Navy ticket to sell.  ###########################  
Parties! Great Beaches/Nightlife!  bonuses! Call: 1-206-545-4804 ext.  $3000firm.  Call288-9158  Need 3 Navy tix -GA or stud  THETIMEHASCOMETOFUNK  
Prices Increase 11/21 & 12/15!  N55842  277-3503  Call Paul 4-2226 or 4-0795  
Spring Break Travel 1-800-678­ 
6386  French couple (30 y. old) looking  GREAT CHRISTMAS GIFT IDEAl  I NEED NAVY GA'S. CALL JILL  *"HELP*HELP*HELP'HELP'"  REVEREND FUNK  
for English lessons at our home to  Give a child you know the gift of  AT 1547.  
Spring Break! Panama City! Earty  prepare GMAT. Good English, and  reading. Colorful and unique per­ » KEENAN BASEMENT «  
Specials! 8 Days Oceanview Room With Kitchen $1291 Walk To Best  notions of teaching required. Cali a.s.a.p. (219) 273-58-48 Granger.  sonalized books for children. 15% student discount. Cali 1-800-375­ NEED STUDENT TIX  PERSONAL  FRI. NIGHT 9-12 $NO COVER$  
Bars! Key West $259! Cocoa Beach  3340. 24 hr. recorded message  ALEX 3504  
Hilton $169! Prices Increase 11/21  THE STUDENT UNION BOARD IS  gives details.  YOU'LL DANCE SO HARD YOUR  
& 12/151 1-800-678-6386  ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR  0¢0 THE COPY SHOP 00¢  CLOTHES'LL FALL OFF  
THE CAMPUS ENTERTAINMENT  ...........2 MONET*""**"'"  LaFortune Student Center  ###########################  
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break  COMMISSIONER, OUES­ """'*TICKETS for SALE"'"  I NEED GA'S MEGAN X3890  We're open for your convenience!!!  
Specials! 111% Lowest Price  TIONS???CALL 1-7757, OR STOP  no need to wait in the long line with  Mon-Thur: 7:30am -Midnight  
Guarantee! 7 Nights Air From South  BY 201 LAFORTUNE FOR AN  these exclusive "member tickets."  FOR SALE N.D. G A s  Fri.: 7:30am-7:00pm  
Bend & Hotel From $4191 Book  APPLICATION  Tickets good on any one day. Cali  call271-9412  Sat.: Noon-6:00pm  18 days until the Ghost of Tom  
Early! Save $100 On Food/Drinks!  soon with an offer, the Chicago  Sun.: Noon-Midnight  Joad  
Spring Break Travei1-80Q-678­ need roomate 4 2ndsem.call 273­ Monet ~xhibition ends November  I NEED USC, BC & NAVY  (closed home football Saturdays)  
6386  4569monique  26th. Gretchen@ 284-5166  GA'S.272-6306  Poor man wanna be rich  
0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0  Rich man wanna be king  
"The Play's the Thing•-­ Tickets for MONET exhibit  I need one Navy GA for Mom.  QUALITY COPIES, OUICKLY!l!  and the king ain't satisified till he  
National Shakespeare Company's  for Nov. 3 or Nov. 5. Please  Please help. Cali Alex -1969  THE COPY SHOP  owns everything  
HAMLET. Washington Hall, Nov.3,  call Brad at 634-5118. Negotiable.  1 00 Watt Fisher stereo system,  LaFortune Student Center  I wanna go out tonight and find out  
8pm. Sponsored by SUB Cultural  Radio Shack Mach 1 speakers call  NEED 2 GA'S FOR NAVYIII  Phone 631-COPY  what I got  
Arts.Tiickets at LaFun Info. Desk  Seeking RIDER(S) to FLORIDA  Mary after 5 for details, 272-4137  CALL CHRIS X-1953  0c0c0c0c0o0c0c0c0o0c0  
Dec 14 return Jan 13.  
Wanted!!  Call Dyan 4-0979  OPEN HOUSE  NAVY TIX NEEDED  1-80 is damn boring!l!!-which is  Hi Mom, Dad, Grammie and Susie!  
Individuals, Student Organizations  1539 OAKHILL, OAKHILL CON­ CALL x0733  why I'd like some company when I  This classified is for you I!I  
to Promote  DOS (5 MINUTES FROM CAM­ drive home to Fairfield County  
SPRING BREAK Eam MONEY and  BASKETBALL COACH responsible  PUS) 2 BEDROOMS, 2 STORY  NEED 1 NAVY TIC.  Connecticut for Xmas .... if you're  Welcome Mom, Dad, and Monical  
FREE TRIPS  , dependable, student/grad to coach  W/LOFT AND 1 CAR GARAGE.  CALLX3832  interested and can drive stick call  I'm glad you're here.  
CALL INTER-CAMPUS PRO­ 5th-6th grade basketball team Nov­ IMMACULATE!!! SEE SUNDAY 11­ Dave at 4-1216 or 1-5323.  Love Michelle  
GRAMS  Feb for south side elementary  4; OFFERED BY CRESSY &  $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $  
http://www.icpt.com  school, located near Scottsdale  EVERETT. PAM DECOLA & TARA  !!@Live Theatre, It won't kill you@ll  
1-800-327-6013  Mall on Miami Street. Must be avail­ EVERETT, CALL 219-233-6141  SABOR LATINO  
able for practice Mon-Thurs from  Come and see  
Engineers-Build yourself a solid financial future. Get Smart!  1 :30-2:30. Game schedule varies with games beginning after school  TICKETS  Need NAVY TIXs call x1755 (Craig)  "For Emily" Most importantly  Saturday Nov 4 10pm-2am  
at 4:00, 5:00, or 6:00pm. Paid posi­ It's free.  Club23  
Architects-Don't let that 5th year  tion. Call291-4200 or 291-8731 to  PLEASE I NEED NAVY TICKETS  
put a crack in your design for the  apply.  CALL DAVID AT 272-7327  Prime Location (300 Washington  SABOR LATINO  
future. Get Smart!  $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $  Hall [aka lab Theatre])  
ILOST & FOUND I  NEED 1 NAVY TIX-STUDENT OR GA  DEVOTED IRISH FAN NEEDS GA'S TO ANY/ALL HOME/AWAY GAMES.  I NEED NAVY Tickets badly.  Time:8p.m. Date: 11/2 and 11/31!!  
CALL MAUREEN @239-7924  219-232-0061,24 HAS.  Both GA's and Student...  Jordan, Sandberg and the Club!  
FOUND: LLBean Grey Fleece Vest  Please leave a message  We feel after seeing the snow you  
near Stepan Center. Call Dave @  Wanted: Used MS-DOS Laptop 386  on my machine ....  will come to the same conclusion:  Ali the great 23's are back! !I!  
634-4245  or 296. Alonso 1-6982.  TICKET-MART, INC.  287-8696  
WANTED  -Bryan  We kill more people by 9 p.m.  Come dance ali night to  
Please. Please. if you found my  Wanted: Used MS-DOS Laptop 386  GA'S FOR ANY/ALL  than most people kill all day.  SABOR LATINO  
little green NO folder wallet, call  or 296. Alonso 1-6982.  HOME/AWAY NO GAMES.  Saturday Nov. 4. 10 pm  
Darcy Yaley at X4949. It's got  BUY*SELL'TRADE  LIVE THEATRE. IT WON'T KILL  
all my necessary 10/Key things !I! !I Please. Please. Please!  FOR RENT  (219) 232-0058-24 HAS.  I NEED NAVY GAs!  Ull  
I NEED TIXS TO ALL HOME  If you have two,  you really should bring in your col­ Listen, strange women lying in  
LOST  HOMES FOR RENT NEAR NO  GAMES.272-6306  call Kathy at x3572  oring contest entries soon. Like by  ponds, distributing swords is no  
PRESCRIPTION GLASSES  232-2595  Tuesday at noon. Remember. mys­ basis for a system of government.  
gold frames w/ marble brown&black  Help Mel!!  tery prizes! Get last Friday's  
around lens  THAT PRETTY PLACE. Bed and  NEED NAVY TIX!  I need 2 Navy GA's  Observer and turn to Accent!  Kidde,  
x10782  Breakfast Inn has space available  AMY 616-473-2636  WILL PAY BIG  You burp like a camel, it's just  
for football wknds. 5 rooms with pri­ Jen 273-6162  that simple. And yes, they do burp,  
..... LOST""  vate baths. Located in Middlebury.  Need Navy tix. 282-1638  ELSIE'S PROMISE  ask anybody.  
SMALL GOLD HOOP  30 miles from campus. 1-800-418­ I need 2 Navy GAs!!!  -An lllinios Farmer  
EARRING  9487  Need two Navy Tickets  Cali Mandy at x4092.  Sat. Nov 4 Jazzman's  
CALL 3709  Call Lara at x4416  Wed. Nov 8 Bridget's  Clean Up Your Mess!! I  
3 BEDROOM HOME 5 MINUTE  
LOST  WALK TO NO GOOD AREA  NEED 2 Navy GA'sl!  Need 1 ticket for Navy. Call Jay at  Make sure to give your Mom a kiss  
A wood-bead anklet. If found.  2773097  call Martha at X4092  1787.  this time.  
please call Becky at x3622.  Calif. actress-writer wife & photog­ 
ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE  Need Navy GAs Eric 233-4435  rapher husband wish to adopt new­ 43 days and I'm off to bluer  
WANTED  HOME FOR ND·SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE  I HAVE NAVY STUD TIX 4 SALE  •••••••••••••••••••••••..••••••••••••  born. Will provide love, nurturing environ., educ .. financial security.  pastures. -That weird Farmer Guy  
TO CAMPUS.  1-6696  Need Navy GA's.  Hollywood Hills home has large  
Roomate needed for 2nd sem.  CALL 272-6194 AM OR 232-9620  Call Joe at 4-1846.  back yard and loving dog. Call  Enuff with that Farmer crap!! II  
Male Grad. stu. pre!. Nice 2br apt.  PM  HELP I NEED  ........................................  818/241-5535 collect. Legal &  

near campus $280/mo. 277-3107 & ASK FOR SANDY. NAVY TIX!I X0979 '""*'*'**"'""'"'"'""""" Confidential. No keep it. everybody loves him IIIII 
,..,_\A\.\.U.tt.ttt.t.t.u.u.u • •, ~ •' tt, ~.u.u ,.H' ..• u' 1 '~ ~, ,, '-''"'' l • • • • • • u • • • 
Friday, November 3, 1995 The Observer· SPORTS page 19 
• NATIONAl HOCKEY lEAGUE 
Panthers hand Flyers first home loss of season 
Associated Press 
Mike I Iough had two first-pe­riod assists and the Florida Panthers held on to defeat the Philadelphia Flyers 2-1 Thurs­day night. 
The loss was the first at home this season for the Flyers (4-1­
1). 
The Panthers, 7-0 this season when scoring first, outshot the Flyers 15-3 in the opening pe­riod and went ahead 1-0 on a rnhound goal by Hob Nieder­rnayer at 17:15. 
Philadelphia goalie Dominie Houssel stopped Niedermayer's shot from in close, but the puck bounced into the air behind him and he inadvertently knocked the puck in with his right arm. It was Niedermay­er's sixth goal of the season. 
Hadek Dvorak's first NHL goal 3:19 into the second period gave the Panthers a 2-0 advan­tage when he picked the puck out of a scramble in front of the net and fluttered a shot over Houssel. 
Philadelphia coach Terry Murray had seen enough by the middle of the second period 
Interested in creating the Loft series this spring? Bringing up and coming bands to campus? Organizing the battle of the bands, NAZZ? Coordinating campus bands, and outdoor concerts? Joining the Student Union Board? 
It's your luclty dtJy!!! 
SUB is accepting applications for the Campus Entertainment Commission. Applications available in 201 LaFortune 
.... ._., Due November lOth 
f/1~.. ...\ 
•

:' ~_, ;. 
... 
4'. QJl •• IITVDKNTVNION80AIID 
and opted to double-shift Eric Lindros and bench linemates Mikael Henberg and John LeClair. 
The alteration immediately resulted in Lindros' 11th goal of the season. The play was set up when Florida's David Ne­mirovsky attemped to clear the puck but the pass hit the back of teammate Stu Barnes' skate. Brent Fedyk scooped up the puck and fed Lindros, who snuck a shot inside the far post. 
The first-period and second­period deficits were the first time the Flyers had trailed heading into an intermission this season. 
Murray brought Henberg and LeClair back in the third period but did not reunite the Legion of Doom line immediately, opt­ing instead for different combi­nations to get some life into his struggling · team. Midway through the third period, Mur­ray brought the trio, which had combined for 27 goals and 26 assists in the first 11 games, back together. 
Philadelphia entered the con­test short a defenseman, Petr Svoboda, who suffered a pulled groin Tuesday and is expected to be out one-to-two weeks. More bad news came after the second period, when center Joel Otto did not return beeause of a sprained right knee. There was no word on his status. 
Red Wings 6, Bruins 5, OT 

Steve Yzerman, who missed a penalty shot in the first period, scored on his own rebound 1:50 into overtime as the Detroit Hed Wings overcame a 5-2 deficit for a 6-5 win Thursday night over the Boston Bruins. 
Yzerman's 15-foot backhan­der from the left was stopped by goalie Blaine Lacher. But Yzerman followed up with a forehand that slipped between the left post and Lacher's right arm for his fifth goal of the sea­son. 
The Bruins led 5-2 midway through the second period, but Detroit tied the game as it took the last 14 shots of the period and scored on three of them. 
The Red Wings took the only four shots of overtime. 
Boston couldn't capitalize on a double-minor penalty to De­troit's Paul Coffey with 12:40 left in the third period. It took just one shot on goal before Shawn McEachern's penalty 
2:48 later evened the sides. 
And after Bob Errey was sent off for boarding with 3:14 lert in the third, the Bruins man­aged just two shots as they 
...
remained scoreless on eight power plays in the game. Detroit entered the game ranked third in the NHL in penalty killing. 
The Bruins went ahead 5-2 at 

9:35 of the second period on Dave Reid's short-handed goal, their fourth straight goal in a span of 6:09. But Mathieu Dan­denault's first NHL goal, on a power play, cut it to 5-3 at 10:19. 
Boston still held a 22-11 lead in shots with six minutes left in the period. Then Detroit grabbed control and tied the game on goals by Doug Brown at 18:10 and Darren McCarty 38 seconds later. 
Boston's Ray Bourque and Detroit's Nicklas Lidstrom had traded first-period goals. The Red Wings had a chanee to go ahead 12:02 into the game when Yzerman was awarded a penalty shot after Alexei Kasatonov fell on the puck in Boston's crease. But Yzerman shot the puck directly into Lacher's pads. 

page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, November 3, 1995 
•Nfl 

Disappointing Steelers visit streaking Bears 

Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 
Defensive tackle Oliver Gibson will be chasin the NFL's least-sacked quarterback when his Steelers visit the Bears Sunday. 
Country Western 
\..,  Dancing .JI  
fB~~~~  
When: Where: Cost:  Friday, November 3 9 pm-12 am LaFortune Ballroom $3.00 Members *Discount for Parents of Members! $5.00 Non-Members & Parents of Non-Members  
Mocktails will be served!  

Brought to you by ';tip SiAU, the group that provides something other than the usual social scene. 
ByRICKGANO 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
Dave Wannstedt just wanted his team to know who it's play­ing Sunday. So in what might be described as a high school­like motivational ploy, the Chicago coach had reminders put up for his players. 
"Pittsburgh Steelers, AFC Central Champions, AFC Run­nersup," read the yellow signs plastered around Halas Hall. 
Only one problem. These are not the same Pittsburgh Steel­ers who were just three yards from making the Super Bowl last season -at least not 

... 
halfway through the season . 
Injuries and off-field distrac­tions have left the Steelers at 4­4, still good enough for a first­place tie in the AFC Central, but hardly where they expected to be entering Sunday's game against the Bears at Soldier 

.­
Field. 

"It's been frustrating, it really has," said quarterback Neil O'­Donnell, who returned three games ago after breaking his finger in the opener. 
"We're just trying to get that out of our minds and go out and play football. We think we have enough talent that if everyone does his job and stays together we can win some games and make it to the playoffs." 
A knee injury to Pro Bowl cornerback Rod Woodson, a broken hand for defensive tack­le Oliver Gibson and the steroid suspension of nose tackle Joel Steed has forced coach Bill Cowher to shuffle and juggle. 
Last week the Steelers made a host of moves, even switching Pro Bowl safety Carnell Lake to cornerback and playing a nickel defense for the first time in two years. 
On one play, they even lined up O'Donnell at wide receiver, with rookie Kordell Stewart taking the snap. All this during a· 24-7 win over Jacksonville that avenged an earlier loss to the expansion Jaguars. 
"Some moves were necessi­tated by injuries, others were made to try and shake things up,'' said Cowher. "We have a ways to go. All last week did was give us something to build off of." 
Cowher, too, has been frus­trated by the erratic first half. 
"If it isn't an injury, we've had off-field problems. We had a player suspended. We had another player (Ray Seals) go through where his best friend and cousin was killed. We've had a lot of potential distrac­tions from that standpoint and we've been very much tested," he said. 
"The fortunate part of it is that we're sitting here 4-4 with a very good opportunity in front of us. But we haven't left our­selves any margin of error. We have to put together a streak." 
The Steelers defense. ranked second in the AFC, is led by one of the league's most controver­sial players, linebacker Greg Lloyd, who earlier this season was fined $12,000 for a hit on Green Bay's Brett ].'lavre. He also put his helmet on Jack­sonville's Mark Brunell last week, prompting one TV ana­lyst to call him a "headhunter." 
Chicago's Vinson Smith was also fined $12,000 this season for a hit he put on St. Louis quarterback Chris Miller. It's all part of the league's rule­tightening to protect passers in the pocket. 
Bears quarterback Erik Kramer said he doesn't have time to worry about just one player or how hard he'll get hit Sunday. The Steelers had seven sacks last week. 
''We've got to account for the type of players like Lloyd and (Kevin) Greene and the blitzes they run. But you can't go back and look for a certain guy as a quarterback," said Kramer, leading the NFL with 18 touch­down passes. 
"My focus will be on down­field," he said, adding that line­backers making big hits is "just football, something that could happen every week, no matter who you play. It's part of the game." 



Chicago's 6-2 record can be traced to the swift development of an offense ranked fifth in the NFL, featuring former Steeler Jeff Graham and Curtis Conway as the receivers. They've com­bined for 70 catches. 
The Bears, leading the NFC Central and with a four-game winning streak, are averaging 362 yards per game, 250 pass­ing. Kramer has been sacked only four times and thrown only four interceptions. 
"He's playing as good as any quarterback in the league," said Cowher. "He's just not making any mistakes." 

SUNDAY. NOVEMBER 12.1995 1:00-5:00PM 
A WORKSHOP FOR COUPLES IN A SERIOUS RELATIONSHIP 
WHO WANT TO EXPLORE CHOICES AND DECISIONS FOR THE FUTURE 
INCLUDING THE POSSIBILITY OF MARRIAGE 
TOPICS TO BE PRESENTED: 
•STAGES OF RELATIONSHIPS 
•STEPS IN MAKING HEALTHY DECISIONS 
•MAINTAINING LONG-DISTANCE RELATIONSHIPS 
THERE IS NO COST FOR THE PROGRAM; BUT... PRE-REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED... BY FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 10 
APPLICATIONS ARE AVAILABLE AT EITHER CAMPUS MINISTRY OFFICE: BADIN HALL OR LIBRARY CONCOURSE 
QUESTIONS? CALL 631-5242 

·-·-~ 
I 
l 
Friday, November 3, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
• BOXING 
Bowe, Holyfield, recall impact of 'Fan Man' 
A Merry Christmas Vol. II 
Tim O'Neill's A Merry Christmas vol I & II solo piano Christmas albums are available in the Notre Dame Bookstore and in the Country Harvester (basement of LaFortune). 
Tim O'Neill will be playing the piano in Seasonal Concepts, a store in the Mall of America in Minneapolis, and in other locations this Christmas Season. If you would like to receive information about Tim or be on his mailing list, call or write: 
By ED SCHUYLER Jr. 
Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS 

Hiddick Bowe and Evander Holyfield were within inches of each other when Fan Man dropped in on them a few years ago. Now, they're light years apart about how the incident affeeted the fight. 
"I had llolyfield right where I 
JAZZMAN's 
NITE CLUB 
525 N. Hill Street 
presents: 
SATURDAY COLLEGE NIGHT LIVE FEATURING A POPULAR CAMPUS BAND 
Featuring: 
THE ELSIE's PROMISE BAND 
PLUS 

• 
With Lady Melo-"D", Spinning your favorite Hip-Hop music during band breaks. 

• 
Both Dance Floors Open Until Close. 

• 
No one under 21 will be admitted without a college ID. Period. No exceptions. 


$3.00 Admission With Student ID 
*Every one under 21 must state they are prior to entry. 
Will you be shopping 
in the 

Mall of America 
this Christmas Season? If not ... 
wanted him," Bowe said. "His back was bothering him, his legs were tired. I think he was ready to quit. If Fan Man hadn't come in, I'd have knocked him out in that round or in the next round." 
Holyfield's version goes like this: 
"Before Fan Man came into the ring, Hiddick Bowe was dying," he said. "He was cut and his confidence was down. I hit him where I wanted to hit him and when I wanted to hit him. He was on his last breath." 
The seventh round of the sec­ond Bowe-Holyfield fight on Nov. 6, 1993, was delayed 21 minutes when James Miller, the Fan Man, crashed against the ring ropes at 1:10 of the round. The judges didn't agree on who won the round. One scored it for Bowe, one for Holyfield and one called it even. 
Holyfield definitely is right about one thing. 
"I knew chances were that if the fight was stopped, it would be a technical draw and Bowe would not have to fight me again," Holyfield said Thurs­day. "I was praying the fight would continue." 
At the end of six rounds, two judges had the fight even and a third had Holyfield ahead by two points. It would have been a technical draw, allowing Bowe to retain the WBA and IBF heavyweight titles. 
Holyfield went on to win a majority decision, and Saturday night he and Bowe will meet for the third time, outdoors at Caesars Palace, site of the sec­ond fight. 
Bowe won the WBC, WBA and IBF titles from Holyfield on a unanimous decision on Nov. 13, 1992, at the Thomas & Mack Center in Las Vegas, but was stripped of the WBC crown by the time of the second fight. 
At Thursday's weigh-in, Bowe was 240 pounds, the lowest he's been since the first Holy­field fight. He weighed 246 when he lost to Holyfield. 
Holyfield weighed 213 pounds. He was 205 for the first fight and 217 for the sec­
7im () '?teitt 

I) Here We Cmnc 11 Caroling (6:00) 
2) Silver Uclb (3:38) 
3) Lullaby ()f Bcthldu:m (3::52) 
4) r:in:: ofLove• (5:20) 
5) De~:k rlw Halb (4:.39) 6) A L'-'t W,dt7! (5: l 5) 
7) Chrhtma~ Chimes• 0:02) 
l:l) God Rest Ym.1 Mcny l '"'''"'"·mett·· 
9) C.u~tm of St. Nidwla~ 
(Or Jolly Oltl Canon in D) {7:40) · tO) Still. Still, Still (4:24) 
ll} Good King Wcnce.-lalu (3:45) 
ll) An ltish Wi~h· (3:51) TOTAL RUNNING TlME 
(57: JO) 
• (Aunpowd by Tim O'Neill 
1\<ttrkeu:d & DiHributcd by Musk h>· ·nm 10 1994 80j 2nd St. N.E. New l'r.tgm:, MN 56071 All Rights Reserved. 
ond. 
At stake Saturday night are pride and a legitimate claim to being the best heavyweight in the world. That daim might be disputed by Lennox Lewis of Britain and Mike Tyson. 
Tyson's claim, however, was probably weakened by the fact he has fought only 89 seconds -the time of his disqualifica­tion victory over Peter NcNee­ley on Aug. 19 -in 52 months. His fight against Buster Mathis, set for Saturday, was called off Tuesday because Tyson has a fractured right thumb. 
Bowe, 6-foot-5, has won four fights since his loss to Holyfield, but he looked impressive only in the last bout, a sixth-round 
•
knockout of Jorge Luis Gonza­lez on June 17. 
The 28-year-old Bowe, of course, wants to look like he did in the first fight when he was at the top of his game. He dominated the 6-2 1/2 Holy­field, knocking him down in the 11th round and winning by seven points each on two of the official cards. 
"I tried to knock him out for 12 rounds," Bowe said of the second fight. "If I had boxed him more, I would have re­tained the title. I'm not banking on a knockout any more." 
The 32-year-old Holyfield promises there won't be a re­play of the first light. 
"This light should be a little different," said Holyfield, who has fought only twice since beating Bowe, "I'm hoping that I won't get hit as much as I did in the first one. I'm a lot bigger and stronger." 

Tim O'Neill ­
803 2nd St NE New Prague, MN 56071 (612) 758-3591 
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, November 3, 1995 


Scottie Pippen and the Chicago Bulls will begin pursuit of their fourth championship in the 90's when they open the season Friday. 
FAMOUS 


Since 1978 DINE IN OR CARRY OUT SZE-CHAUN • CHINESE • VIETNAMESE AMERICAN DISHES 
"Enjoy a unique experience in Oriental Dining" 
•Private 
Dining Booths 

•Fresh 
Ingredients 

•No 
Mass Production 

•Healthy 
Family Style Dining 

•Vegetarian 
Menu 


For Reservations & Carry Out Call: @jimA.tw.ssl 
272-6702 ;.· ~~ 
For Delivery Call 272-2-EAT 6329 University Commons 
(Across from University Par1< Mall) South Bend. IN 46635 'illJRS: Mm-ilus I I AM-9 Pll ~ 
Frilay II AII·IO Pll W' Salllday 4PII-10 Pll 
AFRICAN AMERICAN 
!Jeffowsliip 
WEEKEND 
NOVEMBER 18-19, 1995 PLACE: ANGELA HOUSE in MICHIGAN CITY 
WE WILL LEAVE NOTRE DAME AT 12:45 PM FROM THE LIBRARY CIRCLE ON NOVEMBER 18. WE WILL RETURN AT lOAM ON NOVEMBER 19. FOR MORE INFORMATION, CONTACT TRACEY RANDOLPH AT 634-1675. 
PLEASE BRING A BIBLE 
-
~ 

Bulls ready to reclaim their championship 
cepted it," Jordan said. "As a player, you start looking for reasons for why things aren't working. It became a negative thing for my confidence." 
Jordan spent the offseason perfecting his shooting me­chanics. 
"I feel comfortable again," he said. "I had a lot of open shots last year. Give me those same shots this year, I'll be happy." 
As for the United Center, the Bulls moved their bench to the' right side of the scorer's table -just as it had been at the Sta­dium. They removed the adver­tising signs across the floor, so front-row fans are at courtside -just as they had been at the Stadium. And, at Jordan's in­sistence, his retired No. 23 has been removed from the rafters. 
"At least," Jordan said. "this place is starting to feel more like home." 
He's still trying to get used to Rodman in the home white uni­form. For years with the Detroit Pistons, the "Worm" tormented Jordan, Pippen and the rest of the Bulls. 
But while Jordan still doesn't understand some of Rodman's quirks -the colored hair, the pierced nose, the tattoos, the temper tantrums -he knows the Bulls have a better chance to win the title with the four­time NBA rebounding leader than they did before they ac­quired him from San Antonio. 
"We needed a fierce re­bounder with defensive quali­ties," Jordan said. "His hunger for winning is evident." 
Chicago fans have noticed that, too. and have cheered Rodman heartily. 
''I'm not here for Michael and Scottie. I'm here for the people of Chicago," he said. "Once I get onto the court, I'm taking 22,000 people in the stadium and putting them inside me so they can see how it feels. 
''I'm not a fake and a glitter­type guy. I like to break an arm, get a nose busted to win a game. In the preseason, you saw me get mad. Other people on this team are going to have to get that. I don't care if Luc Longley turns around and punches me in .the face, if that's what it takes to get him going." 
Longley, the starting center. is one of the Bulls' main con­cerns -and not just because he can't play in the opener be­cause he seemingly took Rod­man's advice, got into a pre­season fight with Washington's 
2610 Prarie 



Hours: 
'Till 1 AM Sun­
Thurs

Lunch and 'Till2 AM FriRegular Hours 
and Sat Lunch 11-2 
$4 AH You Can Eat LWJ.Ch Butfet 
11:()0.1:80 
An thepiwa, salad, pasta, and ~.u.a, wichesyou want! 
CALL THE SOUTH STORE FOR WEEKEND RESERVATION 288-3320 
Chris Webber and was sus­pended by the NBA. 
Longley is foul-prone and has never realized his potential, Bill Wennington is no more than a backup, and there are no other true centers on the roster. 
With the questions at center. with Jordan still not proving himself at the United Center, with Rodman's influence still unknown, Bulls coach Phil Jackson is as curious as anyone to see what happens this sea­son. 
"We want to see what they do on the floor," Jackson said. "We're ready for the real show." 
288-3320 
By MIKE NADEL 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 

Dennis Rodman is here to do the dirty work. Scottie Pippen's still here to provide finesse. The bench is deeper. the defense is more dynamic, the enthusiasm is near an all-time high. 
And yet, none of that will help Michael Jordan do what he must do if the Chicago Bulls are to meet the championship ex­pectations that have been heaped upon them. 
"Last year, I didn't shoot the ball well at all," said Jordan, who on Friday night begins his first full season since 1992-93. "I didn't have the sense of touch I always had in the past.
• Timing, feel, touch, confidence . That's what shooting is all about. I think I had good shots in the 17 games I played last year. I just didn't knock them down." 
Jordan, a career 52 percent shooter before retiring in 1993, hit at only a 41 percent clip af­ter returning last March. 
Most of his problems came at the United Center, where he shot only 37 percent. He then made just 44 percent of his shots at home during the play­offs as the Bulls lost to Orlando in the second round. 
Jordan, who won seven NBA scoring titles and led the Bulls to league championships in the three seasons preceding his retirement, kissed the floor of old Chicago Stadium before it was demolished last year. The United Center? He said it should have been blown up in­stead. 
He immediately hated the vastness of the new arena and bought into the theory that its supposedly tight rims con­tributed to his shooting prob, lems. 
"That's an excuse, and I ac­
-------------~~----­

Friday, November 3, 1995 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 23 "­

The place to go for ALL 
----·~~----·your 'NOTRE DAME 
sportswear & accessories! 
LaFortune Student Center 
-
(219)631-8128 
'IRISH 
EXPRESS 
HOURS 
__......_. 
Friday 12-9 pm Saturday 8am-9pm 
1
Sunday 9am -3 pm 
.~ 
I I I 
'Ne Accept both Visa, Master Card, and Discover 





r 
I I 
_________ ... ---~~ 
page 24 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, November 3, 1995 
• COllEGE fooTBAll 
Bowden's Seminoles blow another big one 
By RICK WARNER wild celebration at Associated Press Scott Stadium. The Florida State CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. loss scrambled the 
In a stunning upset Thursday major bowl picture.night, Virginia snapped Florida Had the Seminoles State's 29-game Atlantic Coast beaten Virginia and Conference winning streak and gone undefeated, they probably ended the Seminoles' probably would have bid for a national champi­played No. 1 
onship. Nebraska in the Tiki Barber had 311 all-pur­Fiesta Bowl for the pose yards and scored two national title. touchdowns and the No. 24 Now, the only wayCavaliers stopped second­
the Fiesta will get two ranked Florida State a foot 
undefeated teams is if from the goal line on the final Nebraska and third­play for a 33-28 victory. ranked Florida win "The national championship out. Florida playsthing sorts itself out. Tonight, it Florida State at sorted us out," Florida State 
Gainesville on Nov. coach Bobby Bowden said. 25. It was Florida State's first 
Florida State start­ACC loss since joining the ed the final drive on league in 1992. The Seminoles its own 20 with 1:37 (7-1, 5-1) had won their first 29 remaining, and quick­ACC games by an average mar­ly marched down the gin of 33 points, and had beat­field. After reaching en their first five league foes the Virginia 6, the this season by an average of 43 Seminoles snappedpoints. the ball directly to "We don't lose often," Bow­
Dunn, who was hit . den said, making the point to 
short of the goal by :· PhotocourtesyofFioridaStateSportslnformation
his players to "try to be good 

Poindexter and fin-. . . ·d 
losers. It's part of life. Nothing · h d ff b B · Quarterback Danny Kanell(left)threw a key interception and Warnck Dunn (nght) fumbled as t1me ran out as No. 2 Flon a
1s e o y urmm. . . . Th d · ht
lasts forever." Barber, a junior tail-State lost to Vtrgtnta urs ay ntg . Virginia (7-3, 6-1) played an back, rushed for 193 
before storming back to win 52-James .Colzie's interception led Kanell's scoring toss to Green
inspired game against explosive yards on 31 carries and caught 
20. to Florida State touchdowns, cut Virginia's lead to 24-21, but
Florida State, which was lead­three passes for 45 yards. He 
Florida State quarterback and Byron Capers' goal-line Garcia booted a 48-yard field
ing the nation with 56 points also returned six punts for 73 
Danny Kanell threw for 320 interception stopped a Virginia goal with 1:14 left to give the
and 600 yards per game. yards. 
yards and three TDs in the first scoring threat near the end of Cavaliers a six-point halftime
After building a 27-21 half­Virginia and Florida State 
half -a 35-yarder to Phillip the first half. advantage.
time lead, the Cavaliers shut 

each have one loss in the ACC. 
Riley, a 14-yarder to Warrick After Kanell's TD pass to Kanell, who threw only six in­
out the Seminoles for most of If they tie for the conference 
Dunn and a 38-yarder to E.G. Dunn put the Seminoles ahead terceptions in his first seven
the second half and got two championship, the league's 
Green. The scores gave Kanell 14-7 late in the first quarter. games. had two picked off in 
field goals from Rafael Garcia, berth in the Fiesta-Sugar-Or­
28 TD passes this season and the Cavaliers scored 17 straight the first half, including a diving
who had four in the game. ange alliance would likely go to 
53 career, both school records. points on Mike Groh's 1-yard interception by Percy Ellsworth
Florida State pulled to 33-28 the higher ranked team. 
But Virginia controlled the TD pass to Barber, Garcia's 35-at the Virginia 2. The Cavaliers
on Warrick Dunn's 7-yard Barber ran for 111 yards and 
half despite three costly yard field goal and a 72-yard have had at least one intercep­
touchdown run with 6:13 left in 

scored two touchdowns in the 
turnovers. Barber's fumble and catch and run by Pete Allen. tion in 26 straight games. 
the game, and drove to the first half as Virginia took a 27­Virginia 6 in the final seconds. 21 lead -only the second time But Dunn was stopped inches in 30 ACC games that Florida from the end zone by Anthony State trailed at halftime. The 
• kespeare QCompanp
Poindexter and Adrian Burnim Seminoles trailed Maryland 20­on the final play, setting off a 
17 at intermission last year 
ts

CINEMA AT THE SNITE Parents
presented by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
631·7361 
Weekend!

-

8:00PM 
Friday, Nov. 3, 
.''IMMENSELY PLEASING! .. 
A-~ lbtbollowbit.~oilbt~ ~~Uson. · 
Washington Hall
....~-......~ 
"THERE'S MAGIC IN IT!" 
....-~~~ 
FRIDAY &SATURDAY 7:30 AND 9:45 PM 
~ World Wide Web<http://www.nd.edu/-cothweb/wwwsnite.html> 
Friday, November 3, 1995 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 25 
--------------------------------------------------------~----­
Finally, you wont mind being carded. 

N(JV'I,j w/t-e~._JfJIA-VLStyow Visvr"' cvrrd yfJIA-'Usvrve lrfj vr-t -tft-ese t~Aus. 

Its everywhere you want to be.® 
<rJ Vtsa U S.A, Inc 199S. VIsa Rewards ts a servtce mark of Vtsa International Servtce Association. 
r----------------------,
'"flll£"' 
TAKE 1S% OFF 

"'"" -. ~(~ THE BASICS AT
I 

C RS AMERICAN EAGU ""---m OUTFITTERS 
Enjoy the Perlecl Clothes lor the Perlecl Ooy"' Present thrs cernli· cole lo save 15% off any purchase ol American Eagle Ouriiners when you use your Visa· cord. With over 270 stores across !he coun~y. American Eagle Ouriiners provides duroblef lop-quoltly clothing, and your sonsfocnon is guoronleed. Offer vo rd August I, 1995,1hroughlonuory31, 1996. 
Terms and conclltlon5: Cerflhrole redemptron 15 iolely the re~pon~rbllrty ol Amencon togle Ourir"CIS, Inc Offer valid lor ISQo off the lxmn hom Augu~t 1, 1991, ~rOOIJh Janumy 31. 1996 OHer.,lrd onlywiHrnyoupoy wr~ yourVr\0' mrd (er~hcoteisvoiHfforoneuse Onerertri1Colltper(US!omcr Notvolrdwrthony other promolloool offer Redeem cerhfrwte or lime of purchrr~ or any portrcrpolmgAmenconEogleOurilttersretorllocohon (ertdrmtersnotredeemobleforcll\h Not volrd IOWQ.Id any prevrously pur<hosad merchandrst, layaway, ond/ar merchoodr~e cerhficotes. No repraduchons allowed Vord where pro­hrbited,toxed,orreslnctedbylow.Applrcobletoxes ... musrbepordby beorer Only redeemo~ern rheU.I ....... Cosh value 1/100 cAnt Note Ia employees --~ 
1 AurhoniOironcrrdeNo 8 I 
L----------------------~ 
r----------------------, 
~~~!~~
==:.I,
Cord of !he NFl-CIOd save 15% on ony regularly priced purchase of Nfl Pro line" or other Nfl products from !he Official Nfl Cotolog. Weer who! the pros weer on !he field( in procnce, ond on the sidelines-NFL Pro line. Toke your pick o jerseys, jackets, cops, hhirts, ond more from oil 30 Nflleoms. All our quoltly Nfl merchandise is backed by o60-doy guarantee. Coii1·800·NFL-GIFT (1·80().635·4438} lor your free cololog or lo place on order. Please men lion Source Code 001597. Offer valid September I, 1995, through December 31, 1995. 
~=:odo«~r~i:;r;~~,~~ :;~p~~~h"o'2.~~~~~~:b~~~ '~f.~ 
valid on~ when you poy with your Visa· cord To request yourhlltl cotoloo 01 to redeem ~is certificore by phone: coli I~OO.Nfl Glflll·800.631~4381 ond mention Soulce Code 001 S97 lrmll one cmhfrcale per household CertrfKole IS not r&deemoble foruM and rs not valid With any olher c~rifrcore ~ drscrrunr No re~D<Ixhonl ollowed Vrrrd ,.. whereprohrbrred.rnxed.orrO!nrc!edbylow........ Applrcoble rom musl be pord by beorer Only -­redeemoble m!he U.S. Cosh ookre 1/100 ce•r 
L----------------------~ 
r----------------------, 
C~STAKESlO 
_, .... ...,....., ,..,.. OFF YOUR PURCHASE 
OF $35 OR MORE AT CHAMPS SPORTS Seve SI0on your purchase of $35 or more when you use your Viso' cord ot Chomps Sports. They hove oil !he lop-nome sportl stuff you won! before you even know you won! it. The lolesl clothes. The lolesl shoes. The lotesl equipment. So when you wonllo see what's next, come lo Chomfs Sports firs!. For !he 
store nearest you, coli 1·800·TO·BE·1 S (1·800·862·31781 Offer valid August I, 1995, through December 31, 1995. 
Tomrs aod xoodltlotos: Cetlificore redemprion Is 111lely rho respo'""'li~ of Chomps Sports Offer oolrdAuyusr I, 1991.11uooglr llo<embet 31. 1991 Offer valid on~ when you pay with your Vlso' cord. Present thts certifKole ol any Clromps\prxllm rho U.S rn """' $10 oH omerclrondrse pu<Chost ~ $31 ~ 1110fe. N-~lllOidroodrse ooly. (ortifi<orellltlllbe~ese!lrodorrrme~pon· chose and connol be IMd in conJI)Ilctton with ony ather celf'ifKote or drscoun1 often. Nor rodtemobfe f~ cosh. ~..rooe pe1 cusromer. (etlifrcore • nor """1M· o~e Void ri clljlie<! ond wfrme ~olribrred. roxed m resrmred by low. Appfr<obfe '"'" llltllr be po~ by ...,. betrlm. Nonoger keycode06. f~ rhosrnm neor01r ....
yoo.colll-8f!O.TIJ.l!E.JS!II-81J0.862·3118!.0nly
rodeomobfe • rho U.S. (oshvokre 1/100 COflt 
L----------------------~ 
r----------------------,
Pier1 impmtr ~aY!l~2 
t<n-a change PIER 1IMPORTS Toke 15% off your lolol purchase of oil regular-priced items when you use your Visa• cord ol Pier I. Your room or oportmenl could use olew changes. You could use ogood deal. Pier I con suppl.y both. Offer valid from Jonuory I, 1996, through June 30, 1996 
Ttrms and conditions: Cerlifrcole redompiKJn IS soletv the respon~tbrltly of Pror llmporll Offer vohd from lonuo~ I. 1996.1hroogh ~no 30. 1996. Offer voiKI lor oone-limo purdlllsll on~ OK11r valid oo rogulor"flrrced morc~ondrse on~ and exclud~cleoronce ood solo ifems, di!lwerv. and other servKe charge~ (erttfrcote must be redeemed at ~me of puf(hose Offer do&s not op~y Ia pnot purd10~s and cannot be used to ptJI(hose gdt cerhficates Good only lor purctlosa of products rnd~ mted,AnyotheruseconshhJI~Iroud.(Ofhfrcoletsnotvalrdrnlombmohonwllh 
ony olhm comtrcote, coupon, or dtuounl (erhfKole IS volrd ol oH Prm 1company s101es and portKrpohng ltonchrse stores Votd where prohr"red.roxed.mresrrrcledbylowOfferooiNiooly ­when you poy wi~ YD\11 V110' cord Arrrrfr<o~e rux01 roA musrbepoolbybeorer.ilfl~rodeomobfernrhoU.S. ~ 
Coshwkre 1/IOOcenr. 1 
L----------------------~ 
r.------------i~&Y,fjE~, 
SORMOREAT OSTON MARKET 

Use or show your Vise' cord and present !his certlficole ol ony Boston Markel" or Boston Chicken• locotlon lo seve $2 on any purchase of 55 or more. Come in soon and lry !he rotisserie· roosted chicken or turkey, doubltli)lozed hom, or double-sauced meolloof...ond don'! forget !he freshly prepored sondwiches ond side dishes. Offer valid September 1, 1995, through November 26, 1995. 
Torrws aod xaodllloos: (errifKore rodempr•n o solely rho msponsrbrlr~ ~ Bostoo!'o~er OffervolidSeprembet 1,19911hr1101JhNovember26, 1991 Offer oolrd only wfrefr you use~ siHrw YD11f Y110® cord ~"''" rflrs cetlifKore ..~yourViso c~d or rrme of purdrose or ony purh<rporirrg Bosroo No~er or Bosloo Om" OcOiiofr. Only llflf! cetlifKDIO pe!VIllr. Arryorhor UIOCOIIIhMII froud. (~rrfKOre" norrrrdeemolrle f~ coshond • nor void wr~onyorher cetlifKore ~srre<roloffm (mlifrco~ nor redeemoble f~ okplroM bewroges. robo<co. mrlorij ~<Mix~ No coshr~ood Norrrprodu<honlollowed Vrrrdwfrere~• hi~red.roxed. ~ resn<led by low Aw111o~• roxes ... musrbepordbybeor~ ilfllyrrrdeemribfe•rhoU.S. ~ Coshookrel/20c8flr -~ 
L----------------------~ 
r----------------------,
CAMELOr GET $3 OFF 
Q:n1#¢.Mi!i1Wi0 ANY CAMELOT MUSK 
CD OR AUDIO CASSmE PRICED AT $9.99 OR MORE 
Use your Vise·' cord lo toke $3 off of ony CO or audio cassette priced $9.99 or more ol Camelot Music.limiltwo selections per cerlificole. Pick !he music ond sove when you use your Visa' cord. Offer valid August I, 19951hrough Jonuory 31, 1996. 
Terms aH cOIKIItio•s: Cerhfrcole redemplron ~ \ololy rt11 rtijXIn\lbihry of 
(omelorMusr< OHeroolrdAugusr 1.1991. ~roughlo..,ry31.1996 lrmrrrwo 
sele<liom per cemfKole Not vo~d with ooy other offer or dru:ooot Offer exdud~ 
sole-pnced merchondrse Offer valid on~ when you poy wrlh your Vrso' (Old
iedeem cerhf<o~ or rime ~ purclrose or ony )lflf1rcr· 
porirg Comelor MUir< reroHr<olron Norepr<Mixhonl ... 
olowedl'ordwfrere~ohrbirrrd.loJed,~rOirmredby ....... 
low Awlrcoble rom """ be po~ by beorer Only
rodtemobl,.rhoU.S (oshvokre 1/IOOcenr t 
~----------------------~ 
r 
page 26 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, November 3, 1995 
counts in the long-term plan of close behind with 350. 
• MEN'S SOCCER 

the Irish. Momentum has been Overall, the overwhelmingly
Irish 
the key of the Irish success strong offensive performance of continued from page 32 
since enduring four straight the team has been the most losses over a disappointing fall effective weapon and the key to
Final weekend has 
Despite boasting an impres­break trip. The team has their success. However, Brown 
sive overall record, similar to worked hard to regain and re­hopes that the offense will im­that of the Irish, St. John's tain momentum and a loss to a prove and become more diver­
record remains a bit of an illu­mediocre conference rivalry sified and balanced. sion as it includes various could definitely destroy it. This "We are looking to balance
postseason impact 
members of the Ivy League and is especially important as the the offense better," Brown said. 
By DYlAN BARMMER The ninth-ranked Badgers 
many small private schools Irish head to Lincoln, Nebraska "At the beginning of the season, 
Sports Writer are proud owners of a 13-4-1 
whose volleyball programs are on Tuesday for a match against most of our sets went to the
record, and the Irish are a dis­
about as well-known as a top-ranked Nebraska. outside, but now we are mixing
When the Notre Dame men's mal 1-6 on the road this sea­
sunny day in a South Bend win­The Irish have been nearly it up better." 
soccer team's season comes to son. The inconsistent Irish of­
flawless since fall break, but Sophomore setter Carey May 
an end this Sunday, there will fense will surely not be aided ter. 
"St. John's record is relatively are still looking to improve, has stepped up this season and
be mixed reactions around the when they come up against 
easy and they are relatively especially in areas such as led the team in every match,
Notre Dame ·community. stingy Badger goalkeeper Todd 
young and inexperienced, so it defense ·and achieving a more with the exception of the victo­
Words such as "disappointing" Wilson, who has compiled a 
will be hard measure," Irish balanced offense. ry over Rutgers last weekend in 
and "unfortunate" will no doubt 0. 60 GAA in starting all 18 
head coach Debbie Brown said "We've been working a lot on which she sat out due to illness.
be spoken, and even harsher games this season. 
of St. John's two-year old pro­defense. I think that was really Senior co-captain Brett Hensel
terms may be uttered. After Whatever the outcome in this 
gram. our downfall on fall break," filled in and successfully led the 
all, this is Notre Dame, home to young squad's final two games, 
UConn presents a bit more of Brown said. Irish in the three-game romp­
both excellence as well as over­there will no doubt be much 
a challenge for the Irish, as the Junior co-captain Jenny ing of the Lady Knights. 
inflated expectations. grumbling around campus. 
Huskies will be looking to de­Birkner has proven herself a As the season winds up and
With the entrance of Notre Berticelli is conscious of this, 
fend their third of last year's defensive force as she has led the pressure to win increases,
Dame into the Big East Confer­but prefers to look at the posi­
Big East title. The 20-7 the team in digs in ten out of one might wonder if the team's
ence for all sports excepting tives which can be gleaned 
Huskies lost their undefeated the team's twenty-five matches. motivation in matches like
football, a new sporting era from what must have seemed to 
status in the conference with a She has compiled a team-high those of the Big East will de­
was ushered in for the him a very long season. 
loss to Pittsburgh last weekend, 263 digs and has also con­crease. This includes the temp­
University. Longtime rulers "I've told the players these 
but they are looking to rain on tributed in the kill column with tation to look past this week­
over the lowly MCC, many two games are as important as 
the Irish undefeated conference 217. That places her third on end's matches to the match
Notre Dame programs knew any in the season," said Berti­
parade. The top two teams in the team behind sophomores against number-one Nebraska.
they may find themselves strug­celli. "How they perform does­
the conference receive byes in Angie Harris and Jaimie Lee Or possibly, the Irish might
gling for the first time in years. n't build character -it reveals 
the Big East Championship with who have nearly mirrored each look past the Big East
So far, it has been the men's it." 
soccer team which has suffered the most. 
The Irish bring an 8-9 mark, including a meager 3-7 record in Big East play, into their last two games of this trying season. With the conference tour­nament out of the picture en­tirely. the Irish will look to play the spoiler role when-they face on-the-tournament-bubble Vil­lanova and mighty Wisconsin in their remaining matches. 

A win over Villanova tonight would eliminate the Wildcats, who are 4-6 in the Big East, from the Big East tournament picture, while a road win over the No. 9 Badgers would cer­tainly end the season on a pow­erful note. 
"These last two games are our playoff games," said Irish head coach Mike Berticelli. "We are playing for pride, to be the best team on the field. Maybe we can play the spoiler against Villanova." 
Such consolations are all the Irish have left as this hard-to­swallow season winds its way to a close. Reality has definitely bit for the hard-luck Irish. 
"It's been a season of reality, and sometimes reality is not that easy to accept," com­mented Berticelli. "We're in a conference now where soccer is very significant." 
The Irish will have to adjust to the higher level of competi­tion in the Big East, and the winner of the tournament other's team-leading kill per­Championship to the NCAA gaining an automatic bid to the formances. Harris currently tournament. Still, the team NCAA tournament. holds the lead with 358 kills on works daily to maintain their 
Coach Brown expects the season, but Lee stands focus.
Celeb.,..ate a 

competitive matches from both teams. 
"Both teams will be in the top six of the conference, so we will see them in the tournament," 
f.,..ieV\d's 

bi.,..thday with 
Brown said. "I anticipate that if we play well, we will win. But we need
a special 

· to put pressure on them." The Big East has yet to truly
Obse.,..ve.,.. ad. 
challenge the Irish as they have won every conference match in three games. Still, every match 
Grab a Cup of Coffee from 
1938 Chevy Truck Bank 
South Bend's Newest $35 Oasis to Wa r m Up
The Perfect Gift For 
before or after the Game! 
Every Notre Dame Fan's Home or Office. 
Monday-Friday 7:00a.m. -Midnight 
Edison Plaza -1631 Edison Rd. Saturday 9:00a.m. -Midnight
Mail order to· (across from the Linebacker) 
'rhe Toy Emporium Now Open Sunday lOa.m.-lOp.m.*
(219) 273-6216
PO Box 22 

Mill Creek, IN 46365 
Berticelli is optimistic for next lij!!j!!J!~r season. • "We have to look at building -.c==--­
CACTUS JACK'S MEXICAN
for the future," said Berticelli. ''I'm not disappointed with players on this team; we don't --~~.. have a guy on this team that's a 
GRILL AND CANTINA 
problem. You have to take into 
account our being hit hard by injuries this year. You can't --~~.. win the Kentucky derby riding 
• Weekly Food Specials • 
an injured horse." That horse may be able to • Monday-s1 .so Black bean and cheese burritos 
buck the 6-8-2 Wildcats out of 
the playoff picture, but running l~jl 
• Taco Tuesday-A fish taco with a taco of your choice for S2.oo
neck and neck with the Badgers 
will no doubt prove a much I~!!!!!!!!!!! 
• Wednesday-s1.so for 4 taquitos (rolled tacos) 
harder task. 

• Sundays-s 1.2s quesadillas 


• Everyday •
~7c. 
Martin's
271-2~ 

S 1 .oo tostadas 
(We offer discounts for ND, SMC students!) Roadside Service • jumpstarts • lmpoundsJ 

(try 'em with black beans and sour cream!) 
Tire Changing • Wrecked Auto Tows J Only 2 mlnuta from campwt 

Support an Alumnus
We have the lowest prices In town, and are 

call 
, always there when 

277-5225 (Jack) 
you need us, 24 hours a day! 
\\'e accept checks and credit cards! 

Friday, November 3, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 27 


unit, and they have given up at least six goals in their last four games, all of which are losses. 
"We've been getting beat one­on-one, and we've lost the bat­tle for the loose puck," said ju­nior defenseman Ben Nelsen. "There have been too many mental mistakes and some bad penalties, and our opponents have made us pay for them." 
The offense has been solid so far this season, averaging 4.2 goals per contest, but the de­fense has made it difficult on them to keep up with their op­portunistic opponents. The Irish gave up three early goals Tuesday night against the Spartans, and they were never able to recover. 
Freshman defenseman Benoit Coitner has emerged as one of the unit's top players and has even recorded five points in six games. The rest of the Irish has faltered for the most part, and it has resulted in the team's slow start and current four game losing streak. 
"The defense has struggled this year, and it's cost us in the close games we've lost this year," said defenseman Garry Gruber. "We know that we have to improve. It's just a matter of execution." 
Western Michigan currently boasts the CCHA's top offense with an average of 6.17 goals per game. Right wing Justin Cardwell (14 points) and center Jeremy Brown (11 points) rank among the league leaders in scoring, while left wing Kyle Millar and defenseman Steve ics. Hockey is no exception. 


It is no coincidence that the Notre Dame hockey team ranks last in the league in defense and sports a disappointing 1-5 overall record. To make mat­ters worse, Western Michigan, the CCHA's top offensive team, visits the Joyce Center Friday before the Irish head to Lawson Ice Arena on Saturday to con­clude the weekend series with the Broncos. 
"There is no doubt that we've struggled on defense in this transition period," said head coach Dave Poulin. "The guys are learning a new system with more man on man responsi­bilities. As we gain experience and cut down on the number of power play goals, the defensive play will improve." 
After making significant im­provements in the area at the end of last season, the Irish de­fense has regressed in the first six games of the season. Op­ponents currently average 5.2 goals per game against the 




'Parlicipanls mud 6e a nvtsmc sludenl. OnliJ /lal wrks will 6e acc2pleti (drawings, design, phe~le~graph1J, painlings} wilh t1 maximum si~e e~/3 1 x3•. 
1he exhi6ilwilt 6e sh11wn in lhe S~rin il1111m alta1~rlune Sludenl Cenler n,uem6er 13-1?. 
'Purchase pri~es, darling al $200, will be awarrl.ed. 
/lpplicali1n1 ar~ a11ailll&l, ,,., ;, lh• Slud,,llltliuilill OHic• 
315llli~rlun•. 
Spleial1hanlts Ill 
"" llllllnlli /!Uit:itdilltr,
'"' s,;,, m,,,,.,a,d '"' 
Sllldltrlllcliuilill Ollie• /t~r lh1ir uiUllit~nl Ill Hr, p11reht111 P'~' 1111111r!U. 

Duke have notched eight points apiece in the Broncos' first six games. 
Nelsen, Gruber, Bryan Welch, Davide Dal Grande, Jeremy Coe, and the rest of the Irish defense will have to raise their game to the next level if Notre Dame plans on turning the sea­son around before they fall into too big a hole. 
On the bright side, freshman right wing Brian Urick (nine points) and senior center Jamie Ling (five goals and two assists) have provided a potent one-two punch at the offensive end. Junior left wing Terry Lorenz (five points) has bounced back in his last two games after a slow start, and fellow left wing Brian McCarthy has surprised Irish fans with four points in six games. 
"The offense has been real productive so far this season when the defense has strug­gled," said Nelsen. "We're learning a new system this year under Coach Poulin, so it may take a while for us to get it down. This weekend would be a good time for the defense to turn it around." 
There's no time like the pre­sent. 
If you see sports happening, call The Observer at 1-4543. 
DAYTONA BEACH I (4 j'lf,tJfi I STEAMBOAT VAIL/BEAVER CREEK HILTON HEAD ISLAND 

' Pm PmSON OEP£NDIHG ON OES11NATION I Bft£N( OATES /lEHGTlt OF STAY. 
t~$00~SIINCII.•S·E
W'OLL......, -~
& II!I&'SSIIV•noNS 

-
-
Friday, November 3, 1995
page 28 The Observer • SPORTS 
• SAINT MARY'S VOLlEYBAll 

Injury hurts Belles in loss to Indians 
By KATHLEEN POLICY Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's volleyball team continued their end-of­season slump by falling to An­derson University in three games (15-11,15-9,15-12). The Belles did not play as well as expected against the 20-12 An­derson team. 
The Belles were up 5-0 in the first game when senior middle hitter, Sara Stronczek had to leave the game with a sprained ankle. This key injury hurt the team and they lost momentum. The team had been working all week on a service pattern to Stronczek, and lost its focus. 
"After Sara had to leave, it 
seemed as if everything had 
been thrown off. The timing 
was gone, and even though Meg 
Kelly did a good job in Sara's 
place the timing wasn't there," 
said coach Julie Schroeder­
Biek. 

Stronczek is expected to re­
turn for Saturday's quadrangu­
lar at Goshen College. 

Schroeder-Biek feels that her 
team was not outmatched, but 
the passing game was not 
there. They will work more on 
reviewing passing in practice, 
but Schroeder-Biek is trying to 
make the practices fun because 
the season is almost finished. 

The dimensions of the gym at Anderson also posed a difficult adjustment for the Belles. The sideline was unusually close to the bench and the players had 
Spring Break 1996 TRAVEL FREE!! 
Jamaica. Cancun. Bahamas Panama City. Pavtona. Padre 
*"Great low, low prices **Free Trip on only 15 sales 
Call tor a FREE ~ joformatjon packet ! 'T 
E 
• 
Used books bougi1t and sold 

• 
25 categories of Books 

• 
25.CXXJ Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print Search Service: 


$200 
• Appraisals large and small Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne 
South Bend, IN 46617 [219)232-8444 
just 30 minutes from Notre Dame. 
Hillside modern home overlooking 
ponds with birds. Lg. common rooms 
w/ piano. Qn. bds. Smoke-free. A/C. 
Swim . Full breakfast 


a problem getting acclimated to the size. 
"It felt as if my depth percep­tion was not working right. It took a long time to get used to where everything was supposed to be," said freshman outside attacker Kelli Lovell. 
After Stronczek went down, other players tried to take her place. Meg Kelly and Kelley Prosser provided some key plays. Kelly had ten kills and two aces, while Prosser had nine kills and twelve digs. Freshman Laura Schreeg also stepped up with eight blocks. Schreeg continues to improve with every game. 
"Laura has good form on her blocking, and has adjusted well for a freshman. She continues to work very hard because I ask a lot of her even though she is 
Knule Rockne. Coacn Noire Dame. 1918·30. lnducled19S1 • 

just a freshman," said Schroeder-Biek. 
The Belles next game is a quadrangular at Goshen Col­lege with Goshen, Calvin, Pur­due-Calumet. Calvin is ranked fifth regionally, and Goshen is having a rebuilding year after hiring a new coach. 
The legends of college football come w life at tlie ·· · . _r new College Football Hall of Fame! ActiOn-packed ~1.;..;.:~:-__,. • -.1.~ interactive displays put you in the middle of the ·· · game, while reflective photo galleries and time-honored artifacts 
celebrate the history and lore of college football's greatest athletes and coacht=:s. 
Explore the culor and pagear.try of the worlcl of college football ­an experience the whole family is sure to enjoy! 
GREAT 'tYALL 
Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant 1991, 1992 and 1993! Szechuan • Cantonese • American Chillese Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 Days 
-~ •., cSunday Buffet Brunch· Every Sunday J 
S8.95 for Adults 

· S3.95 for Cblldreo under 10 
(219l272-737b 130 Dlxlew•y S. (US 3lln Roseland) a1 Randall's Inn. Soulh Bend. IN 
~~-~ 
College Football Hall o Eame 
South Bend, Indiana • (219) 235-9999 
Pholograpn courlesy ol Sludebaker Nahonal Museum. Inc. 
~~ 
~ 
Specializing in Prime Rib & Seafood 
•Serving 
Lunch & Dinner 

•Open 
Sundays at 4:00 pm 

•Overlooking 
the River 


•Near the New College Football Hall of Fame 
•Corner of Jefferson & Niles downtown South Bend 
John Bowman, General Manager 
Class of 1977 
234-9000 
Call for Reseruations 
The Place For Steaks for 19 Years 
•Serving Lunch & Dinner 
•Closed Sundays & Holidays 
•Only 15 minutes from the Stadium 
•Eddy Street South to Lincolnway East, US 33 
Exit toward Mishawaka, I/2 Block North on Main Street in Downtown Mishawaka 
T.J. Laughlin, General Manager 
Class of 1973 
255-7737 
Call for Reseruations 
-

The Observer/ Mike Ruma 

Senior forward Rosella Guerrero tallied a goal in Notre Dame's last game, a 8-2 victory over Butler. 
Brad and Betty Laird Certified Clinical Social Workers 
Announce the opening oftheir practice ofpsychotherapy and consultation. 
Specializing in: 
• 
Relationship Problems 

• 
Postpartum Disorders 

• 
Adoption &Fertility Issues 

• 
Grief &Loss Issues 

• 
Depression &Anxiety 

• 
Management Consultation 


• 
Dream Interpretation Groups 

• 
Individual ICouple IFamily Group Therapy 

• 
Clinical Supervision (including for ACSW &CCSW certification) 


Hours by appointment. Reduced fees may be available. 
277-0977 
Over 35 years ofexperience! 
The Observer • SPORTS 
Big East 
continued from page 32 
The game featured a span of 75 scoreless minutes as the Irish tallied goals in the second and 77th minutes. It was dur­ing this span that Ifutgers demonstrated their ability to compete with the then, unde­feated Irish. 
"Their mentality was strong," midfielder Holly Manthei said. "They didn't give up. After we scored the first goal, the game was pretty even." 
"We challenged then in cer­tain areas and our players felt we had a good match against them," Duccilli said. 
At the same time, Duccilli realizes that the weather also slowed the Irish's quick offen-
Van Laecke 
continued from page 32 
"That was the hard part about corning here. I wanted to come to Notre Dame for a num­ber of reasons, but I also want­ed to play as much as I did at Arkansas," she remembered. 
Van Laecke made the most of the situation, playing in 24 out of 25 contests, and starting 12 games for the defense. She was able to provide an offen­sive threat in the back half of the field, recording three goals and six assists on the year. 
This season did not start off much differently. Projected to be cast in a reserve role both offensively and defensively, the junior found herself in limbo. She has played nearly every position in the back and front lines, and also has been found in an outside midfield spot. 
"I would have rather been set in one position from the start, but my role was to be flexible and play where I was needed," she said. 
Things have changed for the 
r-~§}\~/~ffif&~, 
HOURS: Monday • Thursday 7 am to 10 pm • Friday 7 am to 8 pm • Saturday 9 am to 7 pm • Sunday 9 am to 5 pm 
21 Tans For $2 

NOTRE DAME 277-1166 
W.Iklng dlstiUice from N.D. 
Must be 1a or older. One per Cl.dtoma. 
L--------~=~~~~-~~=~~~~-------­
23rd Annual Summer Program ND-SMC Students 
London Rome 
May 22-June 21 June 16-July 15 
Courses offered in 
Biology, Business & Economics, History, Italian, Photography, Sociology 
Past students and faculty will be present. For information call Prof. Black at 284-4460 or 272-3726. 
sive game. Under normal con­ditions, Duccilli knows the Knights need to be prepared for Notre Dame to be forcing the action. 
"We can't afford not to be prepared in all areas," Duccilli added. "We have to be more efficient with the ball. Our de­fense must also be prepared to counter the mobility of their forwards." 
If Hutgers cannot win the against the Irish, they might also have to be prepared for not participating in the NCAA tournament. Currently, the Knights are one of six teams on the bubble and a victory Satur­day might keep that bubble from popping. 
"I definitely feel the game will have an impact on our selection to the tournament," Duccilli said. "The kids understand the 
junior in the latter half of the year. Her stable performances off the bench provided her with an opportunity to work into the starting rotation. She has found herself there since the Duke contest, in which she scored the tying goal with less than a minute remaining. In fact, head coach Chris Petrucelli has even conceded that "it's gotten to the point where we can't take her off the field." 
In fact, since the Duke game, Van Laecke has scored six goals in seven games, amassing a total of 14 points in that span. Recently, she has found herself slated into a starting spot up front, which she has used to put pressure on opposing defenses. 
Playing into a starting spot certainly helps a person to ap­preciate the hard work it takes. It involves playing well every time on the field-game or prac­tice. 
"I think that how you practice says a lot about how you will play in a game. When we have good practices, we tend to per­form better against our oppo­nents. If we have a let-down in practice, it will show on the 
page 29 

opportunity in front of them." 
-· 
The Irish also understand the opportunity in front of them in beating Rutgers. If UConn wins, the potential exists for a rematch between the Big East and national powers. In early October. the Huskies handed Notre Dame their first loss of the year 5-4 in overtime. 
"What we have now that we didn't have then is confidence," Manthei said. "We're back on a roll now." 
In the Irish's last four victo­ries, an important component has been the pressure the for­wards exerted in preventing the other teams from corning out of the backfield in transi­tion. If indeed the UConn match happens, this pressure will be paramount to slowing down the speedy Huskie of­fense. 
field during the game. The harder I try in practice, the •. more confident I am going into a game," she said. 
Her hard work is apparent on the playing field. She runs hard, defends aggressively, and has converted on scoring opportunities; the latter at­tribute being especially helpful as the Irish had struggled to find the net during the middle of the season. 
"A lot of people put emphasis on my scoring as of late. I don't look at that as much because the goals have come more from my teammates' passes than from my own doing. Everybody on the team does a great job of finding an open teammate," Van Laecke said. 
Her work ethic could definite­ly help the Irish as they venture into the post-season. They seem to have solved the prob­lem of corning out strong from the beginning, and are gaining confidence with each practice. 
"I definitely think that it's go­ing to continue. I think that we'll be up for every game, first in the Big East tournament, then in the NCAA's. I'm sure that we're going to play hard every game." she predicted. 
Give yourself a gift for Christmas... 
spend 5 days at St. Agatha's Church in Chicago 
Dec. 17th -21st 
• 5 days of service in inner city 
• opportunity to work-hands on -in parish outreach ministry to needy families and children 
• room and board provided on site 
• limited space available -apply early! 
Re"istration Deadline: November 17 available at the Center for Social Concerns 
Information sessions: 
-
November 15: 6:30 -7:00 PM November 16: 6:30 -7:00 PM at Center for Social Concerns 
----------~-------. 
Friday, November 3, 1995
page 30 The Observer • SPORTS 
,,... 
• fOOTBAll 

Five captains named for 1995 
By TIM SHERMAN 
Associate Spons Editor 

The 1994 season was a high­ly forgettable one for Notre Dame. Lacking talent, the Irish experienced a dismal sea­son that was rocked further by off-field ttoubles and an over­all sense of apathy. Clearly, leadership was lacking. 
Irish coach Lou Holtz made sure the 1995 squad was not going to stray aimlessly like their predecessors, so he did something rather unexpected. He opted to not elect captains at the start of the season. Though rather odd, the strate­gy has proven its worth, as leaders have naturally emerged throughout the sea­son. Thursday, Holtz and the team recognized five members in particular by naming them captains for the 1995 Irish. 
Guards Ryan Leahy and Dusty Ziegler, split end Derrick Mayes, nose guard Paul Gras­manis, and cornerback Shawn Wooden were elected in a team vote taken Monday to be the official leaders for the 7-2 Irish. 
"We're all really excited," 
Grasmanis said. "It's quite an 
honor, especially if you think of 
some of the past captains like 
Rick Mirer and Aaron Taylor." 
While those like Mirer and 
Taylor were obvious choices 
for the role, this season's lead­
ers were not as clear at the 
outset of the 1995 campaign. 
Hence, Holtz made the decision 
to delay the election until a 
handful of seniors emerged. 

"The reason he wanted to do 
it was to see what seniors 
stepped forward," Grasmanis 
noted. "It was a smart idea 
because it got everyone 
involved." 

Throughout the season, Holtz 
tabbed three captains for each 
game, usually one each from 
the offense, defense, and spe­
cial teams, but last week, he 
announced captains would be 
permanently elected. 

"I think we should have them 
for the last home weekend," 
Holtz explained. "They should 
be there for the last pep rally, 
last luncheon and last home 
game." 
Engagement Rings 71~ 

10%-15% OFF! I '\1/" Official Wholesale Price list! 
S.A. Peck & Co. 55 E. MluhillgWII, CJJi<:Dgo, IL 60602 For • Free 32-P•r• Color Clltlllog 

ToU-Fne (800) 922-()()9() FAX (312) 977-0248 lnlemd CAialog Ill hltp: //www.UI[Hck.comiStJJHck 
ct3eb 'n ct3realtfast ~egistry 
South Bnui's First Rrgirtry ofPrivat~ Homes
1.111 Sl711ing Parrnts and Frirnds ofNotr~ Dam~ and 
~ Saint Marys Co/kg'· Try tk OPTION! Enjoy a '"Home Away.ftom Home" 

P<rf<et for Graduation, Football, JPW, Freshman Orientarion, Reunions Wdma L. lkhnh (219) 291-7153 
The Observer/ Mike Ruma 
Nose tackle Paul Grasmanis is one of five seniors who has been named a captain for the 1995 squad. 
WfiiiD~~ 
®ll ®illl 
llil~W@If~~ 
Daily Lunch Specials 4 TV Screens 
IID~rrlt~ 
FLOWERS DELIVERED 
~7DAYS~ 
Flowers, Roses, Balloons, Birthday Cakes, Fruit Baskets, Plush Animals and Gifts 

Clocktower Square ALL MA.JOR CREDIT Phone Answered 

51400 US 31 North South Bend CARDS ACCEPTED 24 Hours a Day 
277-1291 or 1·800·328-0206 
Weekly 
~Pan~~u~~l~! 
Monday 25C Wings 

Tuesday & Wednesday More than just wings! 
Thursday Fea§_t for Four 
~1995 
•50 Wings
•Curly Fnes 

•One Drink Pitcher 
AsK AsouT OuR WALL OF FLAME 
838 University Center 6502 Grape Road 
(between Service Merchandise & Best Buy) 
Phone 273-0088 

NOTRE DAME WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL 8 
lwd~dcuutol tk~~! 
FRIDAY 


vs. St. John's -8:00 p.m. SUNDAY vs. Connecticut -noon 
• NOTRE DAME WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL 
Friday, November 3, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 31 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
-

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1995 (For your personalized daily Jeane Dixon horoscope, based on your own date of birth, call 1-900-988-7788. Your phone company will bill you 99 cents a minute.) HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE leaping ahead. NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Investment and insurance pay-offs Your finances influence a career add to your income. Your romantic decision you make now. Do not be nature wins you many admirers. Get fanatical about minor points. Mak­your personal life in better order. ing intelligent concessions will sal­Travel is not the answer to a recur­vage a profitable deal. A flexible ring problem. Stay home and deal mind set wins new fans. with the realities of a difficult situa­LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Take tion. As your self-confidence grows command. People who are decisive so does your ability to advance your will make the greatest gains. Sign career. A special legacy will come contracts and agreements. Your in handy next summer. Ignore any­superb managerial skills make you one who denigrates your efforts to the logical choice to run a large learn new skills. business. CELEBRITIES BORN ON SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): THIS DAY: producer Roseanne An emotional thunderstonn could be Barr, Italian actress Monica Vitti, brewing. Do not let pet peeves get boxer Larry Holmes, singer Adam under your skin. Steer clear of Ant. small-minded or jealous co-workers. ARIES (March 21-April 19): Lunching with a favorite friend will Say what you think, but speak in restore your usual high spirits. measured tones. Stick to the facts SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. instead of indulging in personalities. 21 ): Greater business success can be A good-humored approach could achieved through group effort. Steer lead to a compromise. clear of becoming entangled finan­TAURUS (April 20-May 20): cially with a member of the opposite Specialized training may help you sex. A close relationship gradually advance at work. Redecorating your deepens. Do not be afraid to ask per­home proves fun. Clean, paint and sonal questions! repair what you already own. A deal CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. with a neighbor should work out 19): A good day to seek work, hire well. personnel and change office proce­GEMINI (May 21-June 20): dures. Bring a job opening to others' Avoid acting overly sensitive about attention. Avoid making a public little things if you want to keep display of your differences with a peace at home. Be conciliatory family member or romantic partner. when talking with loved ones. Make AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): tommitments subject to unforeseen Satisfactory results depend on the developments. amount of personal effort you 'CANCER (June 21-July 22): expend today. Show diligence. Up-to-date facts and figures help Higher-ups are relying on you to you arrive at a wise decision. Show exercise diplomacy. Be cooperative, consideration for a loved one's not high-handed in all dealings with needs. Bargains abound if you have the public. the funds. Seize an opportunity to PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): stock up on staples. Listen to worthwhile suggestions, LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Clearing but let your instincts dictate your up a financial riddle lets you know final decision. Clinch a business where you stand. An intellectual agreement even if the tenns are not approach may not resolve long­everything you wanted. It's a good standing problems. Heed your intu­evening to dine out. Wear some­ition. Finish old business before thing comfortable but stylish.  
.__.. II OF INTEREST · M.S.A. students and alumni will be tailgating in front of DeBartolo one hour before the game tllis Saturday. I  
•MENU '·' Notre Dame I SOUTH NORTH ..•..,.Cheese Sticks Meatball Grinders · · Italian Chicken Sandwich Turkey Miss. Fried Catfish Garden Quiche~ SaintM~s Catfish Chicken Stir Fry Baked Ham  
Celebrate a friend or family member's birthday with a special Observer ad.  

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
WIN 1'5N\ M'{ LIFE LIKE WI\'{ tx:lNT I ~-~~~E />. 13\JtK\-1 1\-\15 SIT\Jf>..TI0\'1 COMED'{ ;. \:Jr FR\t=N~ wrrn NOTI-\ING />..NO 
TI-\E. "OOGBE.RT CORPORt>.TE 1\RT SOURCE." WlLl PP..OVIDE. LOW-COST PAINTINGS FOR 'YOUR WA.LLS. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 30 Like "The X-Files" 
1 Give the walls a 32 Hart's TV partner
face lift a Sot 33 Something for 13 Worker with one to do nails 34 Kind of capital 
15 Reno and Maslin 36 Like many apartment
16 Money, for buildings
example 38 Captain's
17 Voltaire's 
heading

inamorata 39Gannon
18 Downed University site 
19 Black-eye bringers 41 Pueblo tribe 
42 Palmyra's locale: Abbr. 

21 Vex 
24 Word of exhortation 43 Shell out 
25 Mentalist Geller 44 Blow it 
26 Not busy 45Jumped up 
27 Stripling 46 "Cut it out!" 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

WI\'{ f>..Ret-\T M'i CONIJE.R5{>..n()l{':. PE\'PE.RE.I> W\11-\ ~~~EOlJS WITI\C\SM~' WWi IX:>NT \JI'i 
ffiiE.NI)'S I>E.\'1\0NS\RJ\\'C. 
HEA.RifEU C:C)II·KER.\\1 toR 
t-Il'{ WELl.:BE.\1'1~ 'tMEN I 
Hf'\'/E. PRCl\Sl.E\-.\'5? 
~I 
BILL WATTERSON 
SCOTT ADAMS 

OUR. 1"\0TIO IS ''If 

\-\OW MUCK DO TI-lE. 
IT'S IN A FRAI"\E 

PAINTINGS COST? 
IT WILL LOO\<.. LI\<..E 
ART 10 YOU.'' 

SI~ DOLLAR:, 
A POUND. 
l 
49 So as barely to 
be heard 53 Waitress at Mel's 54 Put out of 
condition, as a piano 55 Less refined 58 Plant holders 59 Went up in a hurry 60 Twisted 61 Jungle warfare menaces 
DOWN 

1 Bolster the front 
2 Related on the mother's side 
3 Engrossing book 
4 Professional grp. 
5 Dispenser candy 
6 Skip over 
7 "Madonna With Rosary" artist 
a Napkin fabric 
9 Like beverages at a picnic, often 1oStar boater 11 Move a finger 
12 Simple sugars 
14 Used-car deal 
15 City sacked by Herod the Great 
20 Got 22 Overworked 

23 In-of connector 
26 Den players 
27 Near-anonymity 
28 Jai -­
29 Actress Diana 
30 Braun and others 31 Hard to pin down 33 Bedtime request 35 Quiet times 37 Where some 
N.L. pitchers wind up 

40 Nonnetwork stations 43 Exceedingly bad 45 Crept, informally 46 Conductor--Maazel 47 Runaway 48 Windstar and others 
49 Robin Goodfellow 50 Cross letters 51 Hit-(batted well) 52 Hikers' needs 56--Star Pictures 57 Chance 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

- 
SPORTS  
page 32  Friday, November 3, 1995  



Conference foes visit 
St. Johns, UConn, to test Notre Dames perfect Big East mark 
By BETSY BAKER Sports Writer 

Amherst, Massachusetts or bust. 
No ifs, ands or buts, that is where the Notre Dame volleyball team wants to end up. Amherst is the sight of this year's NCAA volleyball Final Four. 
The only thing that stands in the way is four conference rivals and the best team in the nation, not to mention the four tournament matches that the 
.. 
14th-ranked Irish must win to get there. 
No problem. 

The Irish have entered the home stretch of the season and will continue their trek to the Final Four with their fmal two regular-season home matches against conference rivals St. Johns and Connecticut. 
The 20-5 Irish enter Friday night's match undefeated in the conference and look to stay that way as they try to calm the 22-7 Red Storm. St. John's post a 5-2 Big East record and hopes to maintain their top-six conference rank­ing which will gain them a spot in the 
conference tournament, which will be hosted by the Irish on November 18-19. 
see IRISH I page 26 

'----~~---'-""-'----------------------------' 
The Observer/Jake Peters The Irish volleyball squad hopes to finish off a perfect conference season with victories over 
St. John's and Connecticut this weekend. 
vs. Navy, November 4, 1:30 p.m. EST 
Volleyball 

vs. Saint John's, November 3, 8 p.m. 
vs. Connecticut, November 5, 8 p.m. 
Men's Soccer 

vs. Villanova, November 3, 7:30p.m. at Wisconsin, November 5, 1 p.m. 
• Holtz names 1995 captains 
Cross Country 
see page 30 
District Meet, November 11 
SMC Sports 
Soccer at Valparaiso, November 2 Volleyball at Anderson University, November 1 
• Men's soccer to finish season 
see page 26 

-~ -~ ~~~---~~--------.., 

A long line ofgreat , . Irish:·'tight ends bro~gh~;·.; . Pete Chryplewi~·to ·.·"··'''' 
Notre.Dame. Now his .. moment has come. ~ 
. ~--s true representatives of blue · and gold football, they to steal the spotlight. A jour-" 
ey through the record' books and lists of All-American be a resume of their efforts. 
Names such as Heisman winne 1Leon Hart, Walter Camp Award win-, ner Ken MacAfee, and All-Americans Dave Casper, Tony Hunter and Mark Bavaro used to visibly represent the Irish in its victories. 
1

Many Irish tight ends carried their , · success to the NFL, and one in partie-. .ular captured the attention of the .. 
ation. As Bavaro ran across the· television sets every weekend, many.·.· 
n would wish for a chance to·... be like him. One may just get tha chance. .: 
As a tight end at Stevenson High · ,I ._,._,.,,..,..,. in Sterling Heights, Michigan,: te Chryplewicz understood what he ·· : in the future. He had the tal-: · ent to become one of the best, but he · 
J -' 

-----~ 
Friday, November 3, 1995
The Observer • IRISH EXTRA 
IRISH ON THE OFFENSIVE. 
II • 
Irish offense finally back to full strength 
By MIKE DAY Sports Writer 
It's almost kind of scary. 

Believe it or not, the Irish in­jury list is as bare as a baby's behind. The words "probable," "doubtful," and "out" have been erased from the injury report almost as quickly as they were written down. 
For the first time since the opening game of the season, the Irish will be playing at full strenghth Saturday against Navy without an ingredient missing. And the unit that will benefit the most from Notre Dame's sudden string of good fortune will be the offense. 
"The injury situation is the best it's been this season," said Irish head coach Lou Holtz. "As of now Randy Kinder (bruised quadricep) is the only one not at full speed. We ex­pect him to be ready by Saturday, but we'll have to wait and see." 
The Irish may have the opportunity to empty out their bench if it resembles last year's 58~21laugher. 
The Midshipmen will be hard pressed to contain a Notre Dame offense that racks up 421 yards per game. However, the Navy defense has been been one of the few bright spots in an otherwise mediocre season. Opponents average just 18 points per game against the unit, and only Air Force has scored more than 20 points against the academy through their first seven games. 
"I haven't seen many people move the ball on them with any kind of success," said Holtz. "They use a nine man front to stop the run, and they show you so many different things that it's hard to get into a rhythm against them." 
Odds are that Navy will force Notre Dame to throw the ball more than the 10 times they did last week against Boston College. Wide out Derrick Mayes is primed for a big per­formance in his last home game after being shutdown the last three weeks. As it turns out, Stafford does indeed have a pulse after catching one pass for 15 yards last Saturday. 
If Irish quarterback Ron Powlus is forced to drop back, he will have to keep an eye on All-American candidate Sean Andrews. The sophomore cor­nerback ranks among the nation's leaders with seven in­terceptions. 
Notre Dame hopes to keep the ball on the ground if the weather is as cold and damp as predicted. Tailback Autry Denson should figure promi­nently with Kinder on the re­bound from an injury. Robert Farmer and Clement Stokes may even get into the act if Notre Dame has their way against the Navy defense. 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek 
Healthy at last. It's kind of Irish running back Robert Farmer will be available this Saturday after scary. injuring his knee against Texas. 
MIDSHIPMEN ON THE OffENSIVE••• 
Navy attacks on land with wishbone 
By MIKE DAY Sports Writer 
The wishbone offense. 
No three words in the English dictionary bring about more fear and anguish in the psyche of the Notre Dame defense. And after watching Army roll up over 400 yards of total offense just three weeks ago, there is indeed some cause for concern. 
"We've always had trouble defending the wishbone offense," said head coach Lou Holtz. "They present all kinds of problems for us on defense. Navy has a good quarterback, and they run the quick Hawaii style offense that has given us so much trouble in the past." 
The Irish defense has had problems stopping the run at times this season. However. the emergence of Lyron Cobbins and Kinnon Taturm at inside linebacker has helped key a turnaround in the last two games against USC and Boston College. 
Nose guard Paul Grasmanis along with defensive bcks Shawn Wooden, LaRon Moore. and Brian Magee will be playing in their final home game, so expect the quartet to come up with at least one big play before it is all said and done. 
Sophomore quarterback Chris McCoy will be at the command of the Navy offense that enters the game averaging 223 yards a game on the ground. With 546 yards rushing this season, he is a quicker, sleeker ver­sion of Army's Ronnie McAda who terrorized the Irish Oct. 14 at the Meadowlands. 
Holtz is weary that the Irish defense may be on the field for much of the day if they allow McCoy to find a rhythm early in the game. The sophomore signal caller set a Navy rushing record with 273 yards rush­ing on 26 carries and added 125 yards through the air in the Midshipmen's 33-2 victory over SMU on Sept. 9. 
No team on the Irish's schedule is more dependent on one player than Navy is on McCoy. One sigh of relief for Notre Dame is that the Midshipmen do not have the fullback to complement McCoy that Army had in John Conroy. 
After what happened against Army. the Irish defense cannot afford to take the same "to win, all we have to do is show up" attitude into Saturday's showdown with another wishbone offense. 
Navy Wishbone 
VS. By Mike Norbut 
Notre Dame Linebackers 
T
he Irish have already had and block, Navy will rely on a wing their problems against the back to block outside linebackers Wishbone. The efficient Kory Minor and Bert Berry. Army offense pinpointed that Of course, if Omar Nelson and weakness a few weeks back. Tim Canadda can get five yards a 
The Midshipmen are looking to carry up the middle, who needs to copy that performance, obviously go outside. with a different outcome. It basically comes down to 
Because of a couple of technical Navy's quarterback, Tim McCoy. If manipulations to the normal wish­the converted defensive back can bone alignment, however, the read the blitzes and Notre Dame's 
Midshipmen could have a harder outside rush, the Midshipmen 
The Observer/Rob Finch 
time than the Cadets. could have some success running
Notre Dame Linebacker Lyron Cobbins 
Midshipmen slotback Patrick McGrew 
Without a tight end to stay in the ball. 

-

~---~ 
Friday, November 3, 1995 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA page 3 
I 
W
ith a young offensive line and a new offensive scheme installed by first-year coach Charlie Weatherbie, the leader­ship of center Garrett Smith has been key for Navy this season. 
A senior with two years experience, Smith showed Wcatherbie and his staff in that he was making the transition from a pass-oriented offtmse to the spread offense. 
Under his guid-Sm1tn with 213 yards 
anctl as cap­tain. the Midshipmen have more than doubled last year's rushing to­tals through the first snven games. 
Navy's leading rusher is sophomore quarter­bud Chris McCoy. A dnfnnsive back on the Middies JV team a sea­son ago, McCoy asked for a tryout and quar­terback in the spring and found the spread offnnse to highlight his athleticism. 
lie rushed for 273 yards and one touch­down in his first col­legiate game against Southern Methodist, breaking an NCAA reeord for most rushing yards in a player's first game. lie leads Navy with 546 yards on 131 earries with four touch­downs. 
Photo courtesy of Navy Sports Information 
But in consecutive losses to Virginia Tech and Air Force, McCoy was benched in favor of junior Ben Fay for Navy's last game against Villanova. Fay led the Mids to a 20-14 win, scoring two touch­downs on one-yard runs and running in a two­point conversion. 
Fullbacks Omar Nelson and Tim 
a are also leading rushers for Navy; Nelson 
s second with 16 yards on 85 arries and annada third 
on 38 attempts. 
Nelson had three touchdown runs head­ing into Navy's match against Villanova two weeks ago, but was sidelined before the game with a groin injury. 
In his first stP.rt, sophomore Cannada earned 108 yards on 23 carries and scored his second touchdown. It was the first 100-yard game for a Navy run­ning back in three years. 
Benefiting most from Navy's offense is slot­back Cory Schemm. Schemm has responded as the Mids leading receiver, with 18 catch­es for 282 yards. He also has 177 rushing yards on 18 carries. 
--Megan McGrath 
at who holds the advantage 

Overall 

Coaching D 

Special Teams D 

Quarterbacks. D 
Chris McCoy ofNavy leads the team in rushing with 664 yards. Ron Powlus has passed for three times that much. McCoy can only dream ofthat. 
l.-:llll..__lllbiilli(J Running Backs D 
Navy fullbacks Omar Nelson and Tim Cannada are strong up the middle. Marc Edwards, Randy Kinder and Autry Denson are strong everywhere. 
Receivers 
Critics complain that Notre Dame does not throw the ball enough, but they have twice as many pass receptions as Navy, and Derrick Mayes to boot. 
Offensive LineD 
The Irish linemen have matured over the past weeks into a bruising unit. The Midshipmen have some big boys, but not as much collective power. 
D Defensive Line~ 
Two Navy linemen, Andy Person and Mark 
Hammond, share the lead in sacks. Notre Dame's 
line has already had problems with the wishbone. 
Linebackers D 
Clint Bruce and Fernando Harris are Navy's tackle leaders, and they'll be busy again Saturday. But this is the unit the Irish defense hangs its hat on. 
D Secondary 

Sean Andrews has seven interceptions on the sea­.son to lead the Midshipmen. The Irish starters as a unit can only top rhat by one pick. 
As Notre Dame struggles to find a kicker, Nary 
can boast one that doesn't have much range. 
Explosive returners gives this one to Notre Dame. 
Lou Holtz is undefeated against service academies. 
Charlie Weatherbie is young and enthusiastic, but 
that only gets you as far as the locker room.
D 
It's a game that's expected to be over by halftime. Maybe it'll take three quarters. -Mike Norbut 
!!~u!':!~!?'!? I 
W
ith a combina­tion speed and some experi­ence, the Navy sec­ondary could cause a lot of trouble for the Notre Dame offense. Alota trouble, in the form of free safety Gervy Alota. 
One of only three freshman to earn a var­sity letter last 
season, Alota 
last season, but 
has earned a is playing like a reputation veteran. among the Sophomore 
Midshipmen Sean Andrews for his aggres­spent last sea­sive, inspired son on the play. His 60 bench, but unassisted working as a 
tackles and four fumbles caused lead the team, and he is third on the sqaud in total tackles with 71. 
Alota stepped in to the starting role in 1994 after five games. His performance last sea­son against the Irish earned him ECAC Rookie of the Week honors, as he had six tackles and an intercep­tion on the five-yard line. 
At weak safety, the Midshipmen feature senior captain Andy Thompson. Winner of three varsity letters, Thompson led the team in tackles last season with 112, and had 66 solo stops. This season he his fourth with 46 tackles, and has broken up five passes. 
Cornerback Robert 
Photo courtesy of Navy Sports Information 
Green responded to los­ing his starting job last season with an intense spring, and this season has returned to the top of the depth chart. A junior, Green is sixth on the team with 27 tack­les. 
One of the strongest contributors to the Middies secondary had 
little experience 
wide receiver. Andrews made the switch to cornerback in the spring, and has been a defensive stand­out for Navy ever since. 
Andrews has seven interceptions on tho year, and is tied for first in the nation with one interception-per-game. In his first collegiate game against Southern Methodist, he picked ofT two passes, broke up two others and recov­ered a fumble. He is tied for second for the most interceptions in Middie history. 
Juniorlinebacker Clint Bruce lead Navy in tackles with 76, in­cluding four for a loss. Bruce has earned two varisty letters and a reputation for gritty, rugged play. 
--Megan McGrath 

r----.  
.. .•  
SCORE BY QUARTERS  2  3  4  Tot  PASSING  Comp  All  Pet  Yda  TO  lnt  Lg  FIELD GOALS  Tot  
Navy  14  52  40  20  127  McCoy  31  70  44.3  403  2  5  41  Kopka  6-10  
Opponents  30  38  18  40  126  Fay 28  51  54.9  327  1  2  34  
PUNTING  No  Avg  Bk  Lg  
TEAMSTATS  Navy  Opp  RECEIVING  Rae  Yds  Avg  TO  Lg  Schrum  40  41.5  0  54  
First downs  125  120  Schemm  18  282  16.7  1  41  
Total yards  2348  2388  Scornavacchi  11  178  t6.2  0  41  KICKOFF RETURNS  No  Avg  TO  Lg  
Total yards per game  335.1  341.3  Scott  7  87  t2.4  0  31  Plaskonos  7  23.4  0  38  
Total offensive plays  476  506  Heaven  6  75  12.5  1  19  Scornavacchi  4  14.8  0  29  
Avg. yards per play  4.9  4.7  McGrew  6  23  3.8  1  15  
Rushing yards  1559  1083  Butts  5  77  16.4  0  25  PUNT RETURNS  No  Avg  TO  Lg  
Rushing yards per game  222.7  154.7  Plaskonos  3  33  11.0  0  24  Mill 5  12.4  0  29  
Rushing plays  351  312  Scornavacchi  15  4.8  0  16  
Passing yards  787  1306  ALL-PURPOSE  Rush  Rae  Ret  Tot  Avg  
Passing yards per game  112.4  186.6  McCoy  546  17  0  563  80.4  INTERCEPTIONS  No  
Passes completed  61  102  Schemm  177  282  0  459  65.6  Andrews  7  
Passes attempted  125  194  Scornavecchi  31  178  141  340  46.6  Lewis  2  
Passes Intercepted  7  11  Nelson  316  6  0  322  53.7  McBryde, Speed  1  
Fumbles I Fumbles lost  18/10  16/10  cannade  218  0  0  218  35.5  
Penalties-Penalty yards  24-208  47-401  Plaskonos  0  33  164  197  49.8  DEFENSE  T  A  Tot  FC  FA  PBU  Sac  
Third down conversions  33-108  50-113  Mill 0  0  133  133  44.3  Harris  42  29  71  0  0  3  2  
Percentage  30.6  44.2  Bruce  37  34  71  0  1  0  1  
SCORING  TO  2XP  1XP  FG  Saf  P1s  Alota  54  14  68  4  0  3  0  
RUSHING  Yds/Gm  No  Yds  Avg  TO  Lg  Covarrubias  0  0  11-16  6  0  29  Thompson  35  11  46  0  0  4  0  
McCoy  78.0  131  548  4.2  4  72  McCoy  4  0  0-0  0  0  24  Speed  28  6  34  0  0  1  0  
NelSon  45.1  85  316  3.7  3  18  Nelson  3  0  0-0  0  0  18  Poulter  19  9  28  0  0  1  0  
Cannada  30.4  38  213  5.6  2  33  Fay 2  1  0-0  0  0  14  Green  17  11  28  1  0  0  0  
Schemm  25.3  18  9.8  0  25  Cannada  2  0  o-o  0  0  12  Andrews  23  4  27  0  6  0  
Starks  12.0  6  14.0  0  34  McGrew  2  0  o-o  0  0  12  Person  16  9  25  0  3  
9.4  14  4.7  1  25  Heaven  1  0  o-o  0  0  6  Hammond  14  8  22  1  3  
31  53  2  16  Scornavacchi  0  0-0  0  0  6  Galloway  14  20  0  
4.4  4  1  44  Schemm  0  o-o  0  0  6  Lewis  16  18  0  

. • • ·~ s
! HE . TRATEGIST • • • 
Pos. HI. WI. 
p

Brian Schrum 6-2 184 SA 
Charlie Weatherbie 
Matt Scomavacchi WR 5-10 189 SA Billy Butler DB 5-9 189 SA Matt Scanlan DB 5-8 182 JR OmarNelson FB 5-9 229 JR 
First season at Navy
Momar Khadaffi TR 5-8 135 SA Gervy Alota DB 5-10 187 so 
Career Record: 15-19 
Chris McCoy QB 5-10 186 so Ban Fay OB 6-1 198 JR 
Against Notre Dame: 0-0 
Ryan Cox K 6-0 185 JR Rashad Sm~h DB s-o 213 so 
Highlights: Weatherbie is in his first 
Astor Heaven WR 6-2 203 JR Joe Speed DB 6-1 195 SA 
year as coach of the Mids. He was the 
Keanu Reeves CP 6-1 200 SA Dennis Hopper cc 5-10 195 SA 
head coach at Utah State for the previ­
Dennis Kane OB 6-4 207 so Howard Bryant QB 5-10 199 JR 
ous three years, and led them to the Big 
Cha~es Dudik DB 6-0 196 JR Will Smith RB 5-4 170 JR 
West Conference title in 1993. 
D.J. Jazzijeff HB 5-10 160 so Shaun Stephenson WR 5-10 165 SA Ramon Vasquez DB 5-11 181 SA Cory Schemm RB 6-0 196 JR Robert Green DB 5-9 184 JR Cory James DB 5-10 167 SA Billy Simmons RB 5-8 163 SA Daniel Kelly DB 6-0 180 JR Marcus Starks RB 5-10 192 SR 
LASTTIME . SERIES 
nmcannada RB 5-10 196 so Monty Williams RB 5·10 218 SR Sean Andrews DB 5-10 176 so Jeremy Alukonis DB 5-11 188 JR 
Notre Dame 58 Notre Dame leads: 
Andy Thompson DB 6-0 203 SR Rod Milledge DB 5-10 284 so Navy 21 58-9-1 Patrick McGrew RB 5-11 225 so Jerome Dixon LB 6-0 215 JR 
Last ND win 

Mason Dixonline LB 265-0 100 FA Keith Galloway DB 6-1 216 SA 
The Irish scored on four 58-21 in 1994 
John Ethridge DB 5-10 195 so Maurice While RB 5·10 191 so 
of its first five posses­Last Navy win : 
LeRoy Dennis DB 6-1 200 JR LeRoy Brown BB 6-0 260 FA 
sions to enter halftime 35-14 in 1963 
Tom Poulter DE 6-2 237 JR Tom Ryno LB 5-11 226 JR 
with a 38-7 lead. Emmett Streak: 31 by ND 
Ryno Returns 2B 5·11 165 SA Kevin Lewis DB 6-0 200 so 
Mosley (right} led the At Notre Dame Stadium 
J. D. McBryde LB 5-11 220 SR David Joseforsky LB 6-0 220 JR 
Irish with 84 yards rush­The Irish lead 20-3 
Aaron Rigby LB 6-0 204 so Gerald Wilson RB 5·11 189 so 
ing and 4 touchdowns. 
Cha~es Fisher DB 6-1 190 so Bobby Brown LB 6-o 225 JR Whitney Houston SN 5-9 105 FA Travis Cooley LB 5·10 240 so The Twelve Man STN 12-12 12 SA Clint Bruce LB 6-0 234 JR Fernando Harris LB 6-1 220 SA Nathan Johnston DE 6-2 245 JR Andrew Higgins DB 6-0 175 so Brian Dreschler c 5-10 250 so Michael Ogden DE 6-1 220 so Andy Person DE 6-4 231 SA Jason Coffey LB 5-11 215 so Greg Summa OT 6-3 250 so FULLBACK 
Russ Tate LB 5-10 220 so Ed Pidgeon OG 6-2 255 SA DrewlaBaw OG 6-4 277 so GarrettSm~h c 6-3 265 SR 
~~~ 

Brian Nowitzki DE 6-3 245 so Hunter Jones OG 6-4 283 JR Brian Grana OT 6-1 242 SR Brandon Morris OT 6-1 276 JR Lester Fortney c 6-3 264 JR John Gainey OG 6-1 255 so Scott Zimmerman OT 6-3 238 JR Jeff Smith OG 6-1 275 JR SPLITBACK Bryce Minamyer OT 6-2 258 SR David Petko OT 6-3 315 SA Cecil Collins DT 5-7 224 so John Moe OT 6-2 273 SA Chris Person DE 6-3 231 so Alex Domino OG 6-4 284 SA RIGHT TACKLE Jared Jacobs OT 6-5 266 so 70-Zimmennn James lson WR 6-1 183 so 
66-Grana 

Jefferson Santos WR 5-9 182 so 
~ 

Adan Covarrubias K 5-10 173 so LeBron Butts WR 6-2 190 so Seymour Butts BS 5-8 180 FA 
STRONG

Ryan Bucchianeri K 5·8 156 JR 
SAFETY 

David Lark WR 6-2 201 JR 17-MigBe Neal Plaskonos WR 6-2 220 SA 39-Gullbeaux ZachWilliams K 6-0 183 SR Colin Echols DE 6-2 255 JR David Viger DT 6-5 255 so Tom Sweatman LB 6·2 218 JR Scott Foster DE 6-2 246 so Sean Smith DT 6-3 JR Chad Holzapfel DE 6·5 JR David Loya DT 6-o so Aloia Singers FAM 8-3 FA Mark Hammond DT 6-3 SA 



THE SlATS • • • 

SCORE BY QUARTERS 1 2 3 4 Tot PASSING Camp All Pet Yda TO lnt Lg FIELOGOALS 
Tot Naira Dame 51 94 46 96 287 Powlus 120 209 57.4 1789 11 7 56 Kopka 6·11 Opponents 35 40 51 59 185 Cengia 
2·2 RECEIVING Rec Yda Avg TO Lg TEAMSTATS NO Opp Mayes 41 754 18.4 4 56 PUNTING No Avg Bk LgFirst downs 206 175 Edwards 23 318 13.8 3 46 H.Smllh 29 38.9 0 58 Total yards 3786 3285 Mosley 15 249 18.6 1 51 Palumbo 1 16.0 0 16 Total yards per game 420.7 382.8 Chryplewicz 15 194 12.9 1 28 T alai offensive plays 665 602 Kinder 8 75 9.4 1 30 KICKOFF RETURNS No Avg TO Lg Avg. yards per play 5.7 5.4 Wallace 6 73 12.2 0 35 Mosley 14 28.4 0 50 Rushing yards 1997 1673 Denson 6 65 10.8 0 15 Sollmann 5 18.2 0 29 Rushing yards per game 221.9 185.9 
Rushing plays 458 377 ALL-PURPOSE Rush Rec Ret Tot Avg PUNT RETURNS No Avg TO Lg Passing yards 1789 1592 Edwards 587 318 0 905 100.8 Mosley 9 14.8 1 84 Passing yards per game 198.8 176.9 Kinder 678 75 5 758 94.8 Soli mann 6 4.9 0 24 
Passes completed 120 122 Mosley 32 249 531 812 90.2 Passes attempted 209 225 Mayes 10 754 0 784 84.9 INTERCEPTIONS No 


Passes intercepted 7 12 Denson 471 65 39 575 63.9 Wooden, Cobbins 3 Fumbles I Fumbles lost 22/10 12/10 Farmer 148 19 42 209 52.3 Moore, Rossum 2 Penan~es-Penally yards 40-324 46-369 Chryplewlcz 0 194 0 194 21.6 Magee, Monahan 
1 Thord down conversions 72-134 48·124 Sollmann 0 15 130 145 18.1 
Percentage 54 39 Wallace 0 73 0 73 8.1 DEFENSE T A Tot FC FA PBU Fourth down conversoons 6·13 10·17 Cobbins 
71 21 92 0 2 4 _,SCORING TO 2XP 1XP FG Sal Pta Berry 49 17 66 1 0 3 
:RUSHING Yda/Gm No Yds Avg TO Lg Edwards 12 2 0-0 0 0 76 Tatum 42 21 63 1 0 2 Kinder 84.8 124 678 5.5 7 52 Kinder 8 0 0-0 0 0 48 Magee 31 24 55 1 0 2 Edwards 65.2 115 587 5.1 9 27 Kopka 0 0 27-29 6 0 45 Moore 27 26 53 0 1 2 Denson 52.3 105 471 4.5 5 25 Denson 5 0 0-Q 0 0 30 Wooden 34 18 52 0 0 5 Farmer 37.0 33 148 4.5 1 22 Mayes 4 1 0·0 0 0 26 Grasmanis 24 25 49 0 2 1 Thome 4.9 2 34 17.0 0 30 Rossum 2 1 0·0 0 0 14 Wynn 34 14 48 1 0 0 Stokes 4.6 11 32 2.9 0 11 Mosley 2 0 0·0 0 0 12 Bennett 25 15 40 0 0 0 Pawlus ·1.4 52 ·13 ·0.3 0 12 Cengia 0 0 2·2 2 0 6 Minor 20 17 37 1 0 0 
.... T S
NOTRE DAME 

THE STRATEGIST • • • 
i;:,•.; HE TARS • • • 
No.Name Poa . Hl WI.
NORTHWESTERN Ll 17-15 

LOU HOLTZ .. al'Purdue W, 35-28 
1 Derrick Mayes WR 6·1 204 . SA 2 Kinnon Tatum LB e-o 216 JR
Sept. 16 VANDERBILT WI 41-0 
3 Ron Powlus QB 6-2 217 JR
Tenth season at Notre Dame. 
4 Kory Minor LB 6-2 225 FA
..

Sept.~;·,\ ~~lEXAS. W.'55-27 
5 Emmett Mosley WR 5-9 160 JR
Career Record: 206-92-7
.. 

6 Lyron Cobbins LB e-o 241 JR
•,,.. ,

Sept. 30 ··,;at Ohio State· L, ~5-26 
7 Jarious Jackson QB 6·2 215 FA
• ·... J, .w,,, 

Against Navy: 10-0 
:..'' ~•: . 


9 LaRon Moore s 5·9 190 SA
Oct. 7 al Washmgton w;29-21 
1 0 Mike Perona OB 6·1 190 JR
Highlights: Reached 200-win milestone 
11 Tom Krug QB 6·4 206 JR
OcV14 Army (Giants Stad.) ·wI28-27 
12 Scott Cengla K 5-9 179 so
;J-~. -•.. ~ 

against Purdue. Guided the Irish to a 
12 Mario Strayhorn DB 6-2 205 FA
Oct. 21 · USC W, 38-10 
13 Ben Berry LB 6-3 230 JR
National Championship in 1988 and 
13 John Bishop CB 5-11 170 JR
Oct. 28 BOSTON COLLEGE W•.. 29.-1 0 
14 Ivory Covington CB 5·9 161 so
runner-up finishes in 1989 and 1993.
;Nov. 4 NAVY --..... 
15 Allen Rossum CB 5·7 176 so 16 Jerry Maloney K 5·11 174 JR
Nov. 18 
17 Brian Magee s 5-10 204 SA 17 Marl< McKenna 08 5·11 182 JR 16 Clkal Champion WR 5-10 191 JR 19 Marcus Thome AB 6-Q 224 SA 20 Kevin Kopke K 5-8 175 FA 21 Shannon Stephens RB 5-10 175 FA 22 Shawn Wooden CB 5-11 188 SA 23 Bill Gibbs s 5-10 179 JR 23 Autry Denson RB 5·10 175 FA 24 Ty Goode CB 5-11 183 so 25 Randy Kinder RB 6·1 206 JR 26 Marl< Monahan CB 5-11 164 SA 


26 Chris McCarthy K 5-11 194 so 27 Bobbie Howard LB 5·11 210 FA 
NOTRE DAME 

26 Ken Barry RB 6·0 214 so 29 Rani Enisle DB 6-Q 180 JR 29 A'Jani Sanders DB 5·11 175 FA 30 Jarvis Edison s 6-4 213 so 
STADIUM 

31 Robert Farmer RB 5·10 208 JR 32 Clement Slakes RB 6·0 203 so
Opened in 1930 

33 John Mclaughlin LB 6-4 222 so 34 Jamie Spencer RB 6·1 245 FA 
Capacity: 57,075 

p 35 Robert Phelps CB 6·0 185 JR 35 Scott Palumbo 5·11 187 SA
Largest Crowd: 61,296 

p 37 Jeff Kramer LB 6-2 218 so 38 Chirs Wachtel 5-11 211 JR
Surface: Grass 

38 Slm Slakes CB e-o 185 JR 39 Benny Guilbeaux DB 6·4 210 FA 40 Kevin Carretta TE 6-1 230 SA 41 Joe Bebey LB 6-1 227 so 42 Mike Frascogna WR 5-B 184 SA 43 Bill Wagasy LB 6-3 224 SA 44 Marc Edwards RB e-o 227 JR 45 Hunter Smnh 6-3 195 FA 
ND at home: 246-70-50 


p 48 James Jackson RB 5·10 205 FA 47 Bill Mlloulas LB 6-1 217 so
i' . 1 ,,.,'.' 
~ •• .,... ' ' '' 1:,,' ,' 


48 Renaldo Wynn DE 6-3 260 SA 49 Joe Thomas LB 6-3 205 FA CORNERBACK~!· ..' ~·· TAILBACK 52 Alex Mueller OL 6-8 260 FA21-Grltn 
'" 
25-Kindar 53 Lamont Bryant DE 8·4 235 FA 54 Luke Petngoul 00 6-6 282 so 4-Scanlan 

I' 


55 Shenon Jordan LB 6-4 230 FA
DEFENSIVE END 
58 Kurt Belisle LB 6-2 220 so
811-0IIn• 
57 Rick Kaczenskl c 6-4 263 JA 58 Mike Burgdorf TE e-o 205 JR 
58..0gden 
.r 


-
59 Matthew Kunz s 6-Q 209 so 60 Sean Rogers OT 5·10 260 JR 62 Mike McCullough NG 6-2 298 SA 
FULLBACK 85 Matt Griesbach 00 e-o 263 so 

44·£dwlnll 

66 Jeff Kilburg 00 6-4 278 JR19-Thorne 
67 John Wagner OL 6-8 300 FA 69 David Quist NG 6-6 281 SA 70 Tim Ridder OL 6-7 260 FA 71 Jerry Wisne OL 6-7 282 FA 72 Ryan Leahy 00 6-4 288 SA 
FREE SAFETY 
73 Mike Doughty OT 6-7 291 JR 1-Aiol• 
75 Chris Clevenger OT 6-8 285 JR 31-Crecion 
76 Jeremy Akers 00 6-5 288 SA 77 Dusty Zeigler c 6-6 292 SA 
-
72-l..hy 
\

~"'"' '"'" 
78 Jon Spickelmler c 8·2 285 so54-PelltQOIII 
79 Mike Rosenthal OL 6-7 290 FA 78-SpiGIIIIIIIIllll' 
~j:-MLB 
60 Malcolm Johnson WR 6·4 206 so51-Bruce 50-Cooley 
81 Charies Stafford WR 5-9 187 SA 82 Bobby Brown WR 6·3 175 FA 83 Scott Sollmann WR 5·6 160 JR 84 Dan McConnell WR 5-8 181 SA 86 Anlwon Jones Dl 6-4 237 FA 
·~ 

87 Jimmy Friday LB 6-3 230 FALLB 12-Harrla 
88 Leon Wallace TE 6-3 265 SA 44-McBryde 
WEAK SAFETY 

89 Mike Denvir TE 6-3 231 JR 37-Galloway 
32· Thompson 89 John Cerasano TE 6-4 245 FA

DEFENSIVE TACKLE 85-Holzaplel 

90 Ben Foos DE 6-4 250 SA 41-Poulter 
91 Darnell Smith DE 6-5 277 JR 93 Paul Grasmanls NG 6-2 279 SA ~ 94 JusllnOrr WR e-o 190 JR 95 Corey Bennett DE 6-1 228 so
FLANKER 5-Moaley 
97 Corey Radder LB 6-1 220 so 81·StaHord 
98 Pete Chryplewicz TE 6-5 257 so 99 Cliff Stroud DE 6-3 285 SA 
DEFENSIVE END 57-PerJOn CORNERBACK 35-Dixon 29-Andrawa 
33-DIIIon 

page 6 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA Friday, November 3, 1995 
back for a fifth year." 
Chryplewicz entered the Irish system as the best high school player in Michigan and one of the top tight ends in the nation. His 6-5 frame, speed, quick­ness and good hands made him an obvi­ous threat in the passing scheme. 
But during his freshman and sopho­more years the Irish still had Irv Smith and Oscar McBride at the helm, so he waited and adjusted to the college game. 
When his chance to become an offen­sive threat arrived in his junior season, the door of opportunity slammed shut when he broke his wrist. 
He had only caught four balls in his career up to that point, and now a promising season was lost. He was tremendously disappointed. 
"I was to have a good season last year," he lamented. "The coaches were really looking forward to me contribut­ing a lot, and it was frustrating." 
But the disappointment of last season is in the past, and this is a new year. He has added to his career receptions by hauling in 15 passes. Already that is almost double the number caught by all tight ends last season. 
Yet, for a tight end that is also a potent receiver. these numbers pale in compar­ison to other numbers posted around the country. Other big name receivers are averaging 30-40 receptions a season. 
While a younger Chryplewicz would be bothered by this discrepancy, he has grown to learn that he is getting the bet­ter end of the trade. lie was already a receiver coming out of high school and he came to Notre Dame to become a complete player. That's exactly what they did. They made him a blocker. 
"I guess my freshman and sophomore years you look at all the tight ends around the nation and they're catching 30-40-50 passes," he said. "When you don't know any better you say 'God I wish I could do that.' But now as a senior I know I couldn't have made a better decision. 
"I was a better receiver coming in, and now I feel my blocking and pass reception skills are on the same level. And the national attention I get as being a tight end at Notre Dame is plenty itself without me catching 30-40 passes." 


While the national expo­sure captures everyone's attention and his name makes it impossible for them to forget, his combined skills as a block­er and receiver will open the doors to the NFL. 
"If a tight end or any athlete on the offensive side can block, it is a great advan-
Photo counesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 
tage over some-Irish tight end Leon Hart, a member of three National Championship one else," he teams, won the Heisman Trophy in 1949. 
I 
~ 
I I I I I I I 
I 
~ 
Tradition 
continued from page 1 

needed someone to give him the neces­sary training and direction. 
Notre Dame became the logical choice. Fabled alum Bavaro had led the New York Giants to a Super Bowl win in 1986, and two Irish tight ends, Derrick Brown and Irv Smith, received weekly attention as the Irish continually chal­lenged for the National Championship. 
Both Brown and Smith eventually became two of four Notre Dame tight ends selected in the first round of the NFL draft during a ten year span. 
"I wanted a program that was respectable and did a great job at com­peting for the national championship and sending a lot of guys to the pros," Chryplewicz explained. "I also wanted to get a degree that was worth some­thing. Obviously everyone knows a degree from Notre Dame is." 
At the end of the school year
..... 
Chryplewicz will complete one of his goals by graduating, and another will be within grasp. 
While he has another year of eligibility due to a broken wrist, suffered against Michigan during the second game of last year's season, he may wish to enter the NFL draft. He chose the Irish because of their success in developing good pro tight ends, and his hard work may pay off at the end of this year. 
"I do have a fifth year of eligibility, but I do not know right now whether I'll stay or not," he said. "That's something I'll have to decide after the bowl game. I'll have my degree so that has no variance what so ever on my decision. 
"It will just be where my draft status is. If the coaches feel I'm one of the best tight ends in the country, then it will be unfair for me not to go in the higher rounds. That will promote me to go. If I need a fifth year to get up into that first round, then that's what will bring me explained. "You see some tight ends ranked ahead of me in the pre­season, well all they're doing is catching balls. That's good to a certain extent, but people look at the complete package to see if they can block as well. 
"Coming here, and being under the tutelage of coach Moore and now coach Chmiel and coach Holtz also, I think my blocking will be something that puts me over the top when you compare me to other tight ends." 
In years far from now, people will look back into the record books and old game stories and come across the strange name of a tight end that helped the Irish push their unbeaten streak against USC to 13 games in 1995. They'll read of his first career touchdown in that game. And for Chryplewicz, to be remembered as a part o( Notre Dame's tradition would be a honor. 
"When you look back at the great tra­dition of Notre Dame tight ends, you just hope you play well enough and do the things that will enable you to be remem­bered as one of those in the past that we think of and mention," he said. ''I'm just happy to be here and doing what I can for the team, whether it is blocking or catching the ball." 
DICI( VITALE 
Join Hammes Notre Dame 
Bookstore in welcoming legendary 
ESPN and ABC-TV college 
basketball analyst Dick Vitale 
-
for two book signings this weekend. 
-
IS -•• HOLDING COURT 


~·----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~---­


Friday, November 3, 1995 
The Observer • IRISH EXTRA 

With a tradition of excellence that transcends gridiron prowess, 
the United States service academies prove that the term student-athlete is not obsolete 
T
heir ultimate goal is being able to fly. Certainly not the first common denominator onn thinks of whnn searching for similaritins betwenn an East coast weak safety and a Hocky Mountain oiTnnsive lineman. 
By fly. of course. they mean more than run quickly. Every eollnge athlete wants to run faster. These two won't settle for less than the speed of sound. 
Given these lofty aspirations, life takes on a different per­speelive, whieh is what the United Stales Military's three service academies (Arrny, Navy, and the Air Foree, all three of which appear on the Irish selwdule this season) are all about. Looking at things a lit­tle differently. Perhaps even from 30,000 feet. 
Diseounting football positions, Andy Thompson of the Naval Aeadnmy at Annapolis and Brnt Cillessen of the Air Foree Aeadnmy in Colorado Springs have much in common. 
Both are seniors. Both already have jobs af'tt~r eollege. Tlwir football prowess eannot be qtwstionnd, as Thompson is captain of one of th(~ nation's stingiest defenses and Cillessen is looking to garner his second straight all-WAC commendation as an offensive guard. 
And of course, both want to ny. 
For Thompson, the mode of choice is helicopters. as he awaits the results of an apti­tude test that will hopefully send him to Quantico, Va. for Marine flight school. After a year of post-graduate education funded by an academic scholar­ship, Cillessen hopes to attend flight school as well. 
These are not the typical goals for college football play­ers. Most of their peers have 
visions of NFL glory dancing around their heads. But then, the acade­mies are not typical of higher education either. 


"We focus on football very hard, but it's not an end goal by any means," said Cillessen. "It's a step toward the end goal." 
"The ultimate 


breed, especially as an athlete. goal is to Balancing military obligations become an offi-with a rigorous class schedule 
Photos courtesy of Air Force Sports Information and Navy Sports Information. 
Leadership at the service academies is evident in both military maneuvers and on the football field. (Left) Air Force cadets are required to participate in flight prepa­ration and survival training schools during the sum­mers. (Right) Senior captain Andy Thompson hopes that the qualities he takes from the football field will help him fly Marine helicopters next year. 
cer in the United States Navy," added Thompson. "Sometimes you don't seem to have a choice of who's managing your time." 
T
ime becomes the most precious of commodities for cadets and midship­men. Stress is often synonymous with college life, but many normal college stu­dents will have to reevaluate where they stand when con­fronted with the day-to-day lives of Thompson and Cillessen. 
"I had wanted to come to the Academy since sixth grade, but sometimes it can be pretty rough," admitted Cillessen. "It's tough when you hear about your friends having fun at other colleges, but you're always looking towards another end here." 
There's no doubt success in the academies takes a rare 

is difficult enough. Adding a starting role for a Division lA football program only exacer­bates the pressure. 
Thompson, a history major, is required to take seminars in leadership development in addition to his regular class load, which includes courses such as Thermodynamics perti­nent to his active duty commit­ment after graduation. 
Cillessen notes that "most cadets take around 21 credit hours" at the Air Force Academy, although the primary military obligations occur dur­ing the summer, when cadets are involved in survival training and flight preparation schools, among others. 
And, oh yeah, there's that football thing too. 
A 
ebate has raged in recent years as to 
whether the academies 

hould continue at the lA level of NCAA competition. Sure the Commander-in-Chief Trophy, presented to the acade­my with the best record against the others. and the classic Army-Navy game are viewed with pride by patriotic Americans. 
But poor performance in recent years against other pro­grams and a lack of scholar­ships have caused some to wonder whether the acade­mies, while quaint reminders of the past, are ill suited for the future. 
Unsurprisingly, the players feel this is far from the truth. 

"There is no doubt in my mind that we should be right where we are," said Thompson. "We (the academies) have proven that we can be competi­tive. especially if you look at the success of Air Force and Army in recent years." 
Indeed, despite being under­sized (Cillessen as a lineman is only 6-1, 250) the Falcons are perennially contenders for the Western Athletic Conference title, while Army has grabbed headlines this season for its near-upset of' Notre Dame and its dismantling of Boston College. 
Football at the academies, however, is about much more than X's and O's, W's and L's. It is a manifestation of all they stand for and a microcosm of what they teach. 
"The leadership training is an invaluable Jesson on the foot­ball field," noted Thompson. "We respect teams like Notre Dame, but if we go in there afraid to play, there is no rea­son to go." 
Certainly the prospect of being run over by Marc Edwards is less daunting than piloting combat helicopters. But it is the integrity and tradi­tion which supports this fear-, lessness that separates the academies from the rest of col­legiate athletics. 
The Air Force media guide aptly names their players 'Warriors and Winners.' It is a reputation which on and off the field. the academies can right­fully claim with pride. 
------~--------------~---------------~----------~------~------~ 
page 8 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA Friday, November 3, 1995 
G JOCK STRIP 

The sign of the times is foreboding 


· ~-----~ 
~ /d ~n ~ 1: 
0 a c h uddy Ryan 
called the Run-and-Shoot offense the "Chuck-and-Duck." 
Navy's offense is a slight modification. 
Their "Pitch-and-Make whatever preparations neces­sary to defend your­self. It might make the difference be­tween life and death. 
Navy's athletic offices are located in Ricketts Hall on 566 Brownson Road in 

Pray" or "Keep and Sports Editor Annapolis. 
get Klobbered" style mixes a lot of a wishbone with a little of a yet-unper­fected form of the forward 
pass. 
However, the result is a crazy concoction that has kept the 3-4 Midshipmen afloat in the mighty Patriot League this season. 
With only one more rung to go before reaching the ranks of the average, Navy can actually pose a problem for an Irish team that just squeaked by the Midshipmen's evil twin, the Cadets ofArmy. 
Army ran a controlled option attack, but with a tight end. Navy's wide open style is run by the same offensive coordinator that coached Hawaii's all-out attack into a 48-42 narrow loss to the Irish. 
Be them gypsy-like or not, there are many signs pointing to a possible Naval upset of the eighth-ranked Irish on Saturday. 
Pay close attention to the following three numbers. 
This is the 69th meeting between the two teams. The series record, though very lopsided in Notre Dame's favor, is irrelevant. 
Navy has lost 31 straight, the last win coming when the great Roger Staubach was in charge of the dangerous Midshipman offense. 
Separate from one another, the numbers look harmless. But add them together. 
666. The sign of the devil. Navy's quarterback is not Chris McCoy. It's Damian. 
Wild animals will scream in fear and run away when the Navy gunboat rolls down St. Joseph's River. 
NBC will be there at Notre Dame Stadium with cameras ready. But they won't be film­ing a football game. It'll be The Omen XXVIII--Bill the Goat's Revenge. 
The stage is set. Satan will be wearing a helmet and shoulder pads Saturday. 
Thank God Notre Dame is Catholic and everyone went to church. 
Did you? 




N 1. Nebraska (23) ! 2. Florida St.(31) ,_· 3. Florida (2) ~ 4. Ohio State(6) 

5. Tennessee . ~. 6. N?rt~western 

,i 7. MIChigan \ 8. Notre Dame 
9. 
Kansas State 

10. 
Colorado 

11. 
Kansas 

12. 
Penn State 


13. 
Texas • 14.SouthernCal 

15. 
Washington 

16. 
Alabama 

17. 
Texas A&M 

18. 
Arkansas 

19. 
Oregon 

20. 
Syracuse 



21. 
Auburn ~' 22. UCLA ~.. J · · 23. Texas Tech 


~ 24. Virginia ~.' 25. Oklahoma 
TEAM RECORD 
8-0-0 7-0-0 7-0-0 8-0-0 7-1-0 
7-1-0 7-1-0 7-2-0 7-1-0 6-2-0 7-1-0 6-2-0 5·1·1 6·1·1 5-2-1 6-2-0 5-2-0 6-2-0 6-2-0 6-1-0 5-3-0 6-2-0 5-2-0 6-3-0 5-2-1 
PREY· POINTS 10US 
1501 2 1498 1 1417 3 1412 4 1299 5 
1216 8 1180 9 1042 12 1038 14 860 7 833 6 
828 16 
764 15 
759 13 
554 17 
544 18 
512 19 
487 
457 10 
354 21 
330 11 
328 24 
307 22 
305 20 
172 23 
CJio1 

8 THE IRISH EXTRA STAFF 
Editor: Mike Norbut Managing Editor: Tim Sherman Associate Editor: Tim Seymour Graphic Design: Chris Mullins Production: Thomas Schlidt Contributing Writers: Andy Cabiness, Mike Day, Megan McGrath, Thomas Schlidt 
• GAMES OF INTEREST 
#20 SYRACUSE at VIRGINIA TECH This is a game that has huge bowl implications--both in terms of the Big East and Notre Dame's hopes. The Orangemen have had trouble away from the Carrier Dome, and the Hoakies will be poised to cash in. 
#12 PENN STATE at #6 NORTHWESTERN Wow, what a battle for near-supremacy in the Big Ten. Who would have thought Northwestern would be six spots higher than Penn State? Gary Barnett did. 
#25 OKLAHOMA at #9 KANSAS STATE Oklahoma's still ranked? Ridiculous. Kansas State's in the Top Ten? Even more ridiculous. Toss a coin on Saturday to decide the winner of this crazy Big Eight battle. Then throw the coin away--it's worth nothing. 
#19 OREGON at #15 WASHINGTON There's no doubt about it--Washington choked against USC and now will probably have to burn in Cotton Bowl hell, unless the Ducks can snatch the chance away from them. 
• PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 

Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Syracuse Syracuse Virginia Tech Northwestern Northwestern Penn State Kansas State Kansas State Kansas State Washington Oregon Oregon 
Ptpa Predicl1: 
Notre Dame 38 
Navy 7 

Notre Dame Saint Mary's Store Hours Store Hours* 
Mon-Th Moo-Sat
llam-lam llam-lam
Fri-Sat llam-3am 
SundaySun Noon-lam

,.,.~ ,
.
Noon-lam 

~­
r ....L::Chsp;;ta,-, 
I Large I I 4Large I I Large I I Bread Stix I I 1Small 2Topping I 
I 1Topping Pizza I I 1Topping Pizzas I I 1Topping Pizza I I 2Cokes I I 2Cokes I 

Is II s II s II s II s II 695 ·~ I I 2295·~ I I 5~p~-c/;;e I I 1ooo ·~ I I 695 ·~ I 
L-----~ L-----~ L-----~ L_..;. ___ .J L-----.J 
' 
*From 1:OOam -3:00am (Fri/Sat Only) Call the ND Store for Delivery Service 

1.,. ·, 







