
Friday, May 19, 1995• Vol. XXVI No. 134 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
It's over! Hard work pays off for grads 
By DAVE lYLER Npvs Edimr 
After four years of hard work, countless hours of studying, numerous trips to the Linebacker, and more than $80,000, it all comes down to a piece of paper. 
More than 2,300 students will receive those pieces of paper known as degrees Sunday as the University of Notre Dame holds its 150th Commencement exercises. 1,805 undergraduates will have diplomas conferred upon them, as will 164 master's and doctoral students in the Graduate School; 228 master's and doctoral students in the College of Business Administration; and 182 stu­dents in the Law School. The ceremony is sched­uled to begin at 2 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
Seniors savored their memories and looked for­ward to graduation in their last week on campus. 
''I'm excited, and a little nervous," said Andy Schreiner, a Flanner Hall senior from Olympia, Washington. 
"It'll be a strange day, for sure. This place has been sueh a big part of my life for four years and even though I'm glad to get that diploma, I'm sure I'll miss it. There's a sense of achievement and a sense of loss," said Sehreiner, who hopes to attend medieal school in the fall. 
·"I'm very much looking forward to it (the cere­
see ND GRADS/ page 10 

The Observer/Mike Ruma 
Under a Blood Red Sky 
Graduates will soon enjoy their last view of a Notre Dame sunset and the magic it can create around God Quad. 
• NOTRE DAME VALEDICTORIAN
324 grads leave SMC 
Kroeger named top senior

with degrees in hand 

By lAURA FERGUSON bachelor of science, 46 will By BRAD PRENDERGAST Class of 1995 with a double years to complete. After wrap­Saint Mary's News Editor graduate with a bachelor of Associate News Editor major in English and French ping up her education, Kroeger business administration, four and a 3.95 GPA, will now take plans to teach at the college 
The class of 1995 will bid with a bachelor's in fine arts Four years ago, Becky her studies to Charlottesville, level. farewell to Saint Mary's College and the remaining three with a Kroeger's decision to attend Virginia, where she will pursue Would she come back to in the 148th Commencement bachelor's in music. Last year, Notre Dame was rather easy. a doctorate in English at the Notre Dame to teach? "I "I wanted to convert to University of Virginia, thanks in wouldn't mind," she said. 
Exercises Saturday, May 20, at a total of 377 graduates re­

noon in the LeMans Courtyard. ceived bachelor's degrees. Catholicism, I was interested in part to a Mellon Fellowship. The Pasquerilla West resident Of the 324 degree candidates, Cathleen Black, president being part of the spirit of Notre "I've always loved to write," was selected to be valedictorian 215 will receive a bachelor of Dame, and I knew the English Kroeger said. ''I'm more of a from a pool of 11 candidates 
arts degree, 56 will receive a see SMC/ page 15 and history departments were prose writer. I came to Notre with the highest GPAs among really good," said Kroeger. Dame wanting to learn how to the University's four colleges. "Basically, this was the perfect write better, and I enjoy the The nominees were asked to school." analysis of it." submit a sample commence­
EVENTS OF THE WEEKEND 
Four years later, she'll grad­Kroeger's Mellon Fellowship ment address, which was eval­uate with an almost perfect pays for the first year of a doc­uated by a panel of four faculty 
grade point average. toral program than can take Kroeger, valedictorian of the anywhere from five to eight 
Friday, May 19 
see KROEGER I page 13
S¢ 1:00 p.m. Nurses' Pinning Ceremony Church of Loretto 2:00p.m. A & l Honors Convocation Washington Hall 
Set 4:00 p.m. Baccalaureate Mass An!;Jela Athletic Fac. 
-SAINT MARY'S VALEDICTORIAN
6:30p.m. Lawn Concert Mam Building Mall 8:00p.m. Graduate School Reception CCE lobby 9:00p.m. Graduation Dance JACC-North Dome 
S¢ 9:00p.m. Graduation Party Century Center 


Sunday: Close to perfection
Saturday, May 20 
By PATTI CARSON tuition scholarship as a Chicago Business Fellow, Sunday partic­Saint Mary's Editor Business Fellow. ipated in various extracurricu­
9:30a.m. ROTC Commissioning JACC-South Dome 
This Fellowship entitled Sun­lar activities at Saint Mary's.
10:00 a.m. Sending Ceremony for Post-Washington Hall Graduate Volunteers 
She finished only .068 points day to begin studying in the She was president of the local 
11:30 a.m. Phi Beta Kappa Installation DeBartolo Am 101 
from perfection. University of Chicago's M.B.A. chapter of Pi Mu Epsilon, a na­S<!; 12:00 p.m. Commencement le Mans Hall Court 
Tonya Ann Sunday, the vale­program as a college junior. tional honorary mathematics 
1:00 p.m. Shenanigans Stepan Center 
dictorian for the 1995 graduat­"I've already completed about society, her senior year and she
2:00p.m. University Reception CCE 
ing class of Saint Mary's Col­a quarter of my M.B.A. work at was secretary of that same or­
4:10p.m. Dewee Candidates Assemble JACC Gates 8 & 10 
lege, achieved a 3.932 grade the University of Chicago," ganization her junior year.
for rocession 4:30p.m. Academic Procession JACC 
point average on a 4.0 scale. Sunday said. "I plan to go back While at Saint Mary's, Sunday 5:00p.m. Baccalaureate Mass JACC-South Dome 
Sunday, a mathematics major this fall to finish, and it should received academic honors all 9:00p.m. Concert (Glee Club) Stepan Center 
and a chemistry minor, hails take about two more years." four years. Three of those from Petoskey, Michigan. Upon completion of her years she performed with the
Sunday. May 21 
And before she even finished M.B.A. degree, Sunday plans to Saint Mary's/Notre Dame Wind her undergraduate degree, she pursue a career in the financial Ensemble. Sunday also partici­
9:30a.m. MBA Program Ceremony Reflecting Pool 
already began working on her services industry. This industry pated in the "Play of the Mind"
12:30 p.m. Distribution of Bachelor and JACC-Gate 3 
master's of business adminis­encompasses careers from Conference at Saint Mary's and
Master Diplomas 

tration at the University of investment banking to financial assisted with the St. Edward's 2:00p.m. Commencement and JACC-South Dome 
1:30 p.m. Academic Procession JACC-North Dome 
Chicago. Last summer, Sunday analyzing and brokerage, ac­Hall Charity Carnival at the 
Conferring of Degrees 

was one of 43 students selected cording to Sunday. University of Notre Dame. 4:30p.m. Law School Ceremony Reflecting Pool 
nationwide to received a full In addition to her Chicago 
see SUNDAY I page 9 
The Observer/Christopher Mullins 
page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Friday, May 19, 1995 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
When all is said and done... 

I've completed my four years, and looking at my transcript, it appears that I have compiled the necessary 126 credit hours to earn my degree and get the hell out of here. I passed the Freshman Year of Jake Peters 


Studies, my Philo and 
Editor-in-Chief

Theo requirements and 
Emeritus

survived the Marketing curriculum. Hand me my diploma, please. 
I find it difficult to believe that I viewed college like this for my first three years here, but I did. It was too easy to bury myself in schoolwork and forget that I was here to learn, not just study. 
While having dinner with a friend who has been out of school for a number of years, we talked about making the "seamless transi­tion" from academic life to the real world. At the time we were talking about finding work, and I took the statement at face value. 
Within the last couple weeks since our conversation, I began to see the true wis­dom that had been brought to the dinner table. 
A "seamless transition" is not as simple as having a place to call home after our time under the Dome has passed. It involves every aspect of our lives, as individuals and as a community. Our lives have never been mutually exclusive. What we do affects our friends and our families. 
Despite this interconnectedness, I often find myself looking towards the void that is our future with a certain degree of loneli­ness. Doing so produces a pit in my stom­ach and a lump in my throat, along with the feeling that the void is just too large to ever fill. My initial reaction to this feeling was that I wasn't prepared properly. I needed more job skills, more classes, something to make the transition easier. 
What I began to slowly realize is that a seamless transition does not start during senior week, or even senior year. It begins during the weekend of Freshmen Orientation, when we first set foot on these campuses. It is not all about job skills or being away from your family. 
The entire college experience is a transi­tion. It removes you from the protective walls of your family and immerses you into an environment designed to make you a productive member of society. It prepares you for the world outside. It is also an undeniable fact that at some time you have to leave this environment. 
Some people say that Senior Week went 
by too fast. That they needed more time to 
say good-bye to their friends and class­
mates. Senior Week was a special time, 
when the parties and events took on an air 
of importance unique to a group of friends 
that knew their time here was almost up. 
The music, the friends, the place-every­
thing had to be perfect. When it all came 
together, the feelings were tangible. 
Everyone began to realize how much we 
had grown in our time spent together. The 
transition was almost complete. 
Time at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's has 
never been marked by dates or times. 
Instead, years are marked by those with 
whom you live and by football weekends 
when you were first introduced to some 
now-close friend. With a bittersweet taste 
in my mouth, it is time to say good-bye to 
this very special time-marked by the 
friends and family that have always been 
and will always be by my side. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Lab Tech  
Dave Tyler  Scott Mendenhall  
Brad Prendergast  Dane Kramer  
Liz Foran  Sports  
Graphics  Mike Norbut  
Chris Mullins  Tim Sherman  
Production  Tim Seymour  
Jackie Moser  Viewpoint  
Suzy Fry  Michael O'Hara  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
•INO!ANA 
Friday, May 19 


The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Friday, May 19. 
Accu-Weather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1995 Accu-Weather, Inc. Pressure ~ 
H l BESI[TI] 0~§1) ~U 

• CAMPUS AT A GLANCE 
Top naval officer to address candidates at ceremony 
Admiral Jeremy Boorda, chief of naval operations and a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, will address the 1995 Commissioning Ceremony for University ROTC stu­dents at 9:30 a.m. Saturday at the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. 
All four branches of the military will commission candidates. The Navy will commission 49, the Army 42, the Air Force 16, and the Marines six. The ceremony is open to the public. 
Over the last two decades, Notre Dame's Naval ROTC has commissioned more officers annually than any uni­versity other than the U.S. Naval Academy. 
As chief of naval operations, Boorda is the service's top officer, advising President Clinton on issues and opera­tions and commanding the Navy's 479,000 active-duty sailors and 511,000 reservists. 
He was appointed to the post in April 1994 by Secretary of Defense William Perry, replacing Admiral 
Pelton, Ganey to aid history video 
Robert Pelton, faculty fellow in the 
Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies, and Rodney Ganey, associate faculty fellow in soci­ology, will assist in the production of a video describing 35 years of church history in North America and Latin America. 
The video is being produced by Notre 

Dame's Golden Dome Productions as one aspect of the U.S. Catholic bishops' celebration of the 35th anniversary of the founding of their Committee for the Church in Latin America. The committee oversees a variety of programs linking Catholics in the two regions. Since 1960, these have in­cluded the provision of missionary priests, the operation of diocesan missions, financial assistance amounting to some $70 million for projects approved by the Latin American bishops, support for lay volunteer programs, and the establishment of U.S. religious communities in Latin American missions. 
Pelton, a specialist, in the field of Latin American Church affairs, is the director emeritus of the Institute for Church Life, former chairman of the theology depart­ment and founder and former director for the Center for Continuing Formation in Ministry. 
Lennon appointed rector at NDA 
Peter Tarnock, chancellor of the University of Notre Dame in Australia has announced the appointment of Molly Lennon of South Bend, Indiana as the rector and athletic coordinator. Lennon will begin her assignment on June 1. She will serve as the rector of Port Lodge, the student residence for the 50 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students who attend the Australian University each semester. She will work with the 900 Australian students in the development of the athletic programs of basketball, field hockey, volleyball, and soccer. 
Lennon, four time monogram winner and captain of the 1991 University of Notre Women's soccer team is a 1992 Notre Dame graduate. She was a recipient of the NCAA Women's Degree in Sport's Administration for the University of Kansas in May. 
In May of 1994, Lennon was the coordinator of the 1994 NCAA Division 1 Men's Tennis Championship Tournament held on the Notre Dame campus. She is a graduate of John Adams High School, South Bend, Indiana. 
The University of Notre Dame in Australia, founded in 
1990, is Australia's first Catholic University. 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS 
VtaAuoaatedPrn. 
Atlanta 76 54 Baltimore 72 47 Boston 66 44 Chicago 57 42 Columbus 68 44 
Via Associated Pross GraphlcsNot 01995 Accu-Waather, Inc. 

Frank Kelso in the wake of the Tailhook incident. 
Boorda was born in South Bend, but his family moved when he was an infant to Momence, Illinois, where he was raised. He enlisted in the Navy in 1956 and was commissioned as an officer in 1962. He earned a bache­lor of arts degree from the University of Rhode Island in 1971. 
Prior to his current appointment, Boorda served as chief of naval personnel, commanded the Bosnia­Herzegovina humanitarian relief project Provide Promise, and headed all NATO forces executing UN sanc­tions against the warring factions in the former Yu­goslavia. 
He has commanded the USS Farragut and the USS Saratoga and has a legendary reputation in the Navy for his ability to handle ships. His military honors include the Distinguished Service Medal, the Legion of Merit and the Meritorious Service Medal. 
Lenko wins Red Smith scholarship 
Chris Lenko, a junior from Toronto, has been awarded the 1995-96 Red Smith Writing Scholarship at the Uni­versity of Notre Dame. An American studies and sociol­ogy major, Lenko has been active in campus journalism throughout her first three years at Notre Dame. She has served as editor-in-chief of the freshmen publication Showcase '96 and has written for the yearbook, the Dome. 
Lenko has been honored with the Mac Partlin Award for excellence in freshmen writing, the Student Leadership Award, and the Indiana Collegiate Press Association Award for best investigative story. She recently was inducted into Alpha Kappa Delta, the inter­national honor society for sociology students. 
Upon graduation next spring Lenko plans to study law and write about issues related to criminal and social jus­tice. 
Funded by private and corporate donations, the Red Smith Scholarship is a memorial honoring the Pulitzer Prize-winning sportswriter who was a columnist for The New York Times at the time of his death in 1982. 
The scholarship is administered by the Department of American Studies and is awarded annually to an outstanding student writer at Notre Dame. 
Rusina receives Minamiki award 
John Rusina, a sophomore finance and Japanese major at the University of Note Dame, has been named the 1995 recipient of the George Minamiki Scholarship, an annual gift awarded to a student admitted to the Notre Dame Japan study abroad program 
Established in 1992, the scholarship is named in honor of Father Minamiki, associate professor emeritus of clas­sical and Oriental languages and literature. As a teacher of Japanese Minamiki helped found the first Notre Dame year-in-Japan program and prepared more than 300 stu­dents for their year abroad. 
Rusina, a native of Portland, Ore., will study at Nanzan University, Nagoya, Japan, for the 1995-96 academic year. He was selected from the 12 Notre Dame student enrolled in the program next year. 
"Spending a year in Japan will help me gain a better understanding of the culture and the people, as well as become fluent in the language," says Rusina. The experi­ence also will be beneficial to Rusina's potential career plans in international law. "The scholarship will provide me with incredible opportunities I otherwise would not have," he said. 
RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY Pr aOUCJY CLOUDY 
I ... \ 
I 
' 
Friday, May 19, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
Construction leaves its mark on ND landscape 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
Associate News Editor 
The three-week surgery on the Golden Dome is proceeding without complications. 
.Since May 1, workers have been cleaning the 4.3 million bricks of tho Main Building and preparing to replace the win­dows and roof as part of an on­going exterior renovation that is expected to last until August 1996. 
Mike Smith, director of facili­ties engineering, reports that the renovation is moving along smoothly. 
"We haven't had any prob­lems," he said. "Everything is going line." 
The renovation, which will cost around $5 million, will also include minor electrical and mechanical modifications and a cleaning of the base of the statue of Mary on tho top of the dome. 
The dome itself will not be renovated. It was regilded in a previous project in 1988 at a cost of $300,000. 
The trim of the exterior will aiso be touched up with a new coat of paint. 
"We plan to make the colors on the hoods over the windows a bit darker," Smith said. 
Following the construction of Keough and O'Neill Halls on the south side of campus and the movement of students from Grace Hall to the new dorms in August 1996, the offices within the Main Building will be moved to Grace, and an inte­rior renovation of the building will begin. 
Expected to last from the summHr 1997 to summer 1999, the interior renovation will include a restoration of the building's murals and paintings and a rehabilitation of the fifth floor, which is currently unused and closed to the public because of serious structural damage. 

Three classrooms will be added, and some of the current offices, such as the Registrar's Office, will be rebuilt, Smith said. 
"The functions of the offices have changed over time," he said. "They need to be updated 
as  computer  technology  
changes and  as their roles  
change."  


Social areas, computer lab highlight Keough, O'Neill 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
Associate News Editor 
Grace Hall residents are in for some pleasant changes when they move to Keough and O'Neill Halls on the south side of campus next summer. 
Slated to open in August 1996, the two new men's dorms will include more social areas and a first floor room to be used as a computer lab, ac­cording to Mike Smith, director of facilities engineering for the University. 
"There are going to be social spaces in each section on each floor," Smith said, ·~as well as an overall dorm social space." 
Each dorm room will also be wired for connection with the campus computer network, an improvement that is gradually being installed in the presently existing dorms. Sizes of the rooms in Keough and O'Neill Halls will remain consistent with rooms in other dorms. 
Construction of the dorms, both of which will house 275 students, is progressing on schedule, Smith said. The dorms will be located immedi­ately south of South Dining Hall, across Dorr Road. 
The exterior of the residences will maintain the architecture style of that area of campus, Smith said. 
Keough and O'Neill Halls are the first male dorms con­structed since Flanner and Grace Halls were opened in 1969. After Grace's residents are moved to the new dorms, Grace will be converted into an administrative building which will house the offices currently in the Main Building while that edifice is undergoing interior renovations from summer 1997 to summer 1999. 
The addition of the two dorms to the south side of cam­pus will cause some changes to the physical structure of South Dining Hall in order to handle the influx of students. The Oak Room may be moved to an ad­dition at the rear of the build­ing in order to create more space for the dining hall. 
"Something is definitely going to be added to the back of the building," Ronald Athey, assis­tant director of food services, said. "We want to make the back cosmetically beautiful for the students who will live behind it." 
Two additional dorms may later be added to the area where Keough and O'Neill Halls will be located. These two dorms would be female dorms and would house the residents from two of the female dorms on Mod Quad, which would then be converted into male dorms to preserve the male-female ratios on both sides of campus. 
The construction of Keough and O'Neill Halls is being fund­ed with gifts from Donald Keough, chairman emeritus of Notre Dame's Board of Trustees, and the family of Joseph O'Neill, Jr., a Notre Dame emeritus trustee and a 1937 graduate . 



CONGRATULATIONS TO THE CLASS OF '95! Your parents cheered you through years of college 0 
0 0 

now we'll help you share the victory of commencement 


In honor of your graduation, VARSITY CLUBS OF AMERICA will reimburse your parents $100 of their local lodging expense and we'll provide $25 towards a celebratory dinner at Friday's* 
JUST CALL 277-0500 

Or, bring your parents (and their hotel receipt) to the VARSITY CLUBS OF AMERICA RECEPTION OFFICE at 3800 NORTH MAIN and EDISON anytime from 9:00am to 6:00pm Saturday and Sunday 
*Participating in a 90-minute orientation to Varsity Clubs of America will guarantee your receipt of a $100 lodging reimbursement, and a $25 Friday's gift certificate. There is no membership obligation. 



Four Years in Review 
Friday, May 19, 1995 page4 

I 
"Swim team bus crashes" 
Two members of the Notre Dame swim team were killed early Jan. 24th when a United Limo bus carrying the team overturned on the Indiana Toll Road. Freshmen Colleen Hipp and Meghan Beeler died and over 30 others were injured, including freshman Haley Scott, who remained in the hospital with serious back injuries for six weeks. 
Jan.24, 1992 

2 
"Notre Dame student killed in weekend 
crash" 


Mara Fox, a Lyons Hall freshman, was killed early Saturday morning when she was struck by a car along Douglas Road while walking back to campus from Macri's Deli with three other freshman women and one of their older brothers. 
Nov. 15,1993 

3 
"Homosexual student group denied access" 
After GLND/SMC was prohibited from

~OBSERVER 

meeting on campus in January, protests were organized and councils passed reso­lutions calling for official recognition of the group. However. recognition was never granted. Later in the year, the administration creat­ed a committee to address gay and les­bian issues. 

Jan.31, 1995 
4 
"Rita cleared of Fox's 
death" 

After nine hours of deliberations, a jury acquitted Notre Dame Law School graduate John Rita of causing the death of Mara Fox on Nov. 13, 1993 while dri­ving drunk. Rita will face a retrial this August on a second charge of leaving the scene of an accident. The jury was origi­nally deadlocked on that charge. 
Nov. 9, 1994 

5 "Burtchaell to resign amid sexual misconduct" Rumors surround­ing Notre Dame the­ology professor Father James Burtchaell have been confirmed by an arti­cle in this week's issue of the National Catholic Reporter (NCR) which states that Burtchaell has agreed to resign amid charges of sex­ual misconduct with male undergradu­ 6  "SMC moves to change method of governance" An ad hoc commit­tee has formulated a plan to change the governance of Saint Mary's College to a single board of Trustees with more power vested in the laity, according to College President William Hickey.  "50 million dollar 7 Stadium expansion announced" r-----·--·····-··-·····-----­The University gave~­~OBSERVER g· alumni and Irish fans their field of dreams, finalizing the plans for expansion of Notre Dame Stadium by 21,000 seats by the 1997 season.  

ates. 
May 13, 1994 


Dec.3, 1991 Sept. 15, 1993 

9 
"University clears 
"Loretto renovation changes state of Grace" "Administration 
certain; SMC community divided" 
Kinder and Farmer" 
10 
Sophomore running 

Renovation of theFollowing the backs Randy Kinder Church of Loretto at
1995-96 academic and Robert Farmer 
Saint Mary's is immi­year. Grace Hall will 
were cleared of any 
nent, despite opposi­
be converted to a 
wrongdoing in con­permanent adminis­tion from many innection with antrative office building 
the Saint Mary's
alleged sexual assault 
and, upon conver­
community, accord­incident following thesion, the Main build­
ing to Mary Turgi,
Notre Dame-Brighaming will be vacated to 
chairperson of the
Young game in
undergo a major 
renovation commit­
October.
renovation. Two new 

tee. residence halls will be built on a portion of the Burke Memorial Gold Course. 

Feb. I, 1995
April 22, 1994 Nov. 20, 1991 

Editor's Note: Selections were made by members of The Observer news department. 
Friday, May 19, 1995 The Observer • YEAR IN REVIEW page 5 

Troubles, controversies highlight year 
By DAVE TYLER 
News Editor 
T
he 1994-95 school year marked the return of protests, scandal, and c~tncellations to Notre Dame. There was a little good news along the way too. 
This past year was filled with big headlines and controver­sies, but the story that caused the most waves on campus and around the nation was the Uni­versity's decision to first re­strict the activities of and then not grant ollicial recognition to Gays and Lesbians of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College (GLND/SMC). 
In January, administration officials prohibited GLND/SMC from holding meetings in the University Counseling Center. The focus of the debate quickly shifted to a question of recogni­tion for the group, which never received ollicial status from the University. Several campus bodies, including the Faculty SenatH, Campus Life Council, Student Senate, Graduate Stu­dent Council, and Hall Presi­dent's Council passed resolu­tions condemning the adminis­tration for their stance, and calling on the school to ollicial­ly reeognize GLND/SMC. 
Large protests were orga­nized. On thrne separate occa­sions. membnrs of the Notre Dame community gathered to denounce the University's han­dling of GLND/SMC situation. One rally included an attempt by protesters to enter the Ad­ministration Building after first forming a human ring around it. All the demonstrations were peaceful and no arrests or dis­turbances were reported. 
The outcry over the GLND/SMC situation led Vice­President for Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara to create a committee to address Gay and Lesbian issues. The commit­tee's preliminary report was released May 3rd, and recom­mended that a training pro­gram of tolerance be adopted in helping rectors and hall staffs become better equipped to han­dle issues of sexual orientation. The panel is forbidden from discussing the recognition of GLND/SMC or any other student organization which aims to address issues of sexual ori­entation, as O'Hara declared the mcognition closed before a meeting of the CLC. 
In November. after a two and one half week trial, Notre Dame law sehool graduate John Rita was cleared of a charge of causing the dtmth of then-Notre Dame freshman Mara Fox while driving under the influ­ence of alcohol in November of 1993. Errors in a blood alcohol test led a St. Joseph's County Superior Court jury to acquit Rita on the DUI charge. The test which was administered three hours after the crash showed Rita's blood alcohol content to be .14, four hun­dredths over Indiana's legal limit, but the test's printout contained errors. 
The panel deadlocked on a second lesser count of leaving the scene of a personal injury accident, causing Judge William Albright to declare a mistrial. Rita faces a retrial this August on an amended charge. 
While Notre Dame's football program struggled through a subpar year, it continued to weathered a storm of allega­tions against its players. 
Sophomore running backs Robert Farmer and Randy Kinder were accused of sexu­ally assaulting a female stu­dent. The pair were exonerated in February by an Office of Stu­dent Affairs inquiry. 
Wide receiver Michael Miller was dismissed from the Uni­versity November 9. The next day, Miller was arrested in his home state of Texas in what authorities claimed was a fraudulent check writing scheme. While authorities alleged that Miller and two high school classmates purchased $50,000 worth of merchandise and airline tickets over 18 months with stolen checks, the case against Miller was dropped when The Fort Bend County, Texas district at­torney's office later dropped the case, sighting vague word­ing in the charges. 
Notre Dame recruit and high school standout wide receiver Randy Moss also faces legal dif­ficulty, after becoming involved in a racially motivated fight at his school in Belle, West Virginia. Moss faces malicious wounding charges stemming from the fight. If Moss is con­victed of the felony, the University may refuse to admit him according to the University Policy Handbook DuLac. 
J.P. Bolduc, former president and chief executive officer of 
W.H. Grace and Company, was appointed chairman of the University fund raising group, The Sorin Society in October. The Sorin Society is composed of members who give over $1,000 a year in unrestricted gifts to the school. In April, af­ter stepping down from his Grace post amidst allegations of sexual harassment, Bolduc and the University mutually agreed that Bolduc not act as Sorin Society chairman for an unspecified for an unspecified amount of time. No successor has been named in the interim. 


Poet and author Maya An­gelou rescheduled, postponed and then canceled her speaking engagement at Saint Mary's. after a much-ballyhooed effort to obtain her speaking services. After first rescheduling Angelou's speech for Angela Athletic Facility, the poet was forced to cancel her trip when her home was burglarized the morning of April 8, the day she was scheduled to speak. 
For the second time in two years, AnTostal was handless. 
j 
The ObB<~rvEir/John l.llcas

The traditional week-ending 
John Rita felt the weight of accusations of causing a death on his concert was canceled after se­shoulders last November. Although eventually acquitted, he faces a curity concerns were raised retrial this August on a charge of leaving the scene of an accident. about the scheduled act, the New York City-based rap group, Digable Planets. 
University President Father Edward Malloy announced a 
5. 9% tuition increase, which brought the cost of a Notre Dame education to a record $22,340 for next school year. 
The sound of construction equipment was a familiar one this year on campus as the University began several pro­jects. (see page 3). 
Progress continued on the University's new Business Building, which stands next to DeBartolo Hall on the develop­ing DeBartolo Quad. The build­ing is scheduled to open in the fall of 1995. 
The University community also mourned the passing of several prominent members. 
Benefactor and real estate magnate Edward DeBartolo died December 19. He was 85. DeBartolo gave the university its largest ever single gift, $33 million in 1989. The gift helped underwrite the DeBartolo Quad, the DeBartolo classroom building and the planned Marie 
P. DeBartolo Center for the 
Performing Arts. University Trustee and donor 
J. Peter Grace succumbed to bone cancer April 19 at age 81. The former president and chief executive officer of W.R. Grace and company donated funds for Grace Hall, and the O'Hara­Grace Graduate Residences. 
Father John Gerber died Easter Sunday at age 65. Ger­ber was a professor of English at Notre Dame, a University Trustee, Holy Cross superior of Moreau Seminary and, at the time of his death headed Cam­pus Ministry's graduate student and faculty programs. 




The Observer/Eric Ruethling Randy Kinder (25, shown here against Southern California) and Robert Farmer were ultimately exonerat­ed after being accused of sexual assault last winter. 
page6 The Observer • SENIORS AND SERVICE Friday, May 19, 1995 
Some grads delay jobs, choose service option 
By LIZ FORAN 
Associare News Ediror 
Deciding what to do after graduation can be both fright­ening and exhilarating. Won­dering whether you made the right choice regarding graduate school, career choice and living arrangements can be seriously stressful as you end your last college year. 
For about 10 percent of the senior class this year, the deci­sion about what to do after col­lege led them to choose post­graduate volunteer work while t_hey decide where else the fu­ture might take them. 
According to Mary Ann Roe­mer, Coordinator for Senior Volunteer Programs at the Cen­ter for Social Concerns, about 150 seniors from the class of 1995 are dedicating a year or more of their lives to social ser­vice after graduation. 
Among the most popular pro-
Commitment to volunteerism marks seniors, 10 percent of class will serve around world 
grams are the Holy Cross Asso­ciates, the Peace Corps, the Al­liance for Catholic Education (ACE) and the Jesuit Domestic and International Programs. 
According to Roemer, about 40 students choose to do service through Holy Cross Associates, which provides volunteers for teaching programs, programs for elderly, the homeless, drug abuse, alcohol treatment and other social work. 
Roemer said the program is popular because it offers many different kinds of service and also because Notre Dame is founded by the Holy Cross. 
Another 40 students per semester participate in the ACE program as well. ACE was an idea brought to life by Father Timothy Scully, vice president and associate provost at the University. Its purpose is "to provide committed Catholic teachers for understaffed parochial schools and to provide recent college graduates with intensive teacher training and opportunities for Christian com­munity and personal growth," according to a esc brochure. 
ACE candidates go through an eight week training program in South Bend and then teach for two years, after which they will receive a master's of arts in teaching degree from the School of Education at the University of Portland. Teaching is done pri­marily in Christian communities in the southern United States. 
The two other most popular volunteer programs are the Peace Corps and the Jesuit Do­


esc sends volunteers in style 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE 
Assiscanr News Ediror 
In honor of Notre Dame stu­dents embarking on service pro­grams, the Center for Social Concerns (CSC) is hosting a Senior Volunteer Send-Off this Saturday. 
The ceremony, in which ap­proximately 200 graduating SJ:lniors and their families and friends will participate, is meant to encourage the continued ser­vice by Notre Dame students, according to Mary Ann Roemer, coordinator of Post Graduate Volunteer Service for the CSC. 
"The Send-OfT is a celebration of the service performed by Notre Dame students. It will honor and raise up the volun­teer work that these students have done," Roemer said. 
Most of these seniors become involved in community service through the esc. where some 2000 Notre Dame students par­ticipate in programs each year. The CSC assists students in making service a "solidified and integrated" part of their lives no matter what their profession, according to Roemer. This de­sire to serve, she says, most often comes from parents. Notre Dame "nurtures and fos­ters" this desire. 
Working both domestically and internationally, the seniors participating in the Send-OfT will be involved in service programs including Holy Cross Associates, the Alliance for Catholic Education, the Jesuit Volunteer Corps, Teach for America, and the Peace Corps. 
A number of prominent fig­ures in the field of service will be attending the Send-Off. Cardinal Edward Cassidy, presi­dent of the Pontifical Council for Promoting Christian Unity, who will be receiving an honorary doctor of law degree from Notre Dame during the University's 150th Commencement exercis­es, will be present at the cere­mony. Also in attendance will be University President Reverend Edward Malloy, CSC Director Reverend Don McNeill, and graduating seniors Dan McGinty and Katie Glynn. John Pinter, director of the Holy Cross Associates and a 1980 Notre Dame alumnus, will offer his reflections on service. 
Congratu{ations to Our 1995 :Management qraauates! I"J'ony ;Mjidi Lamarr Justice Susan}ltcfiinson ([)onaM 1(ingston Lee CBecton 0rian 1(Cem }lnarekja ffirancfi James 1(oraas 'I!iomas Carney c.R.p6ert Lancfisweerat }1.. nd"rew Caspersen :Nico[e :M.affii 1(asey CCevenger c.R.p6in :M.ego 'M.icfiae[ Cool(_ Peter :M.inafian I"J'roy Cusey :M.ark_:M.u[[en Jfeatfier {[)e[[a c.R.pcca Sfiarif:Nijim Cfiristopfier {[)insmore 7imotfiy 06erfiofrer Jason ([)omza[ 'M.aryJ{eatfier Parcfi James {[)owney CJ?jcfiard" Petri[[o Peter rJ"afzarano 1(atfi[een Quinn Jolin rJ"enn Carren (]{_jeger Lorraine qarner 1(e[[y <Rpmer Jfer6ert qi6son c.R.pna ra c.R.pse :M.icfiae[J{afin Josfiua Sagucio 0ryan J[ak.sz[a Jeremy SampCe :Nefanie Jfami[ton CJ?jcfiaraSauget Jeffrey J{aynes 'M.icfiae[SojieM Jerome Jfifton :M.arisa I"J'raina James Jfoufifian* James I"J'rautmann (]3rent Jfumpfiies Sarafi !"J'yCer** {[)anie[Jensen CJ(aymonaZeffar *Outstanaing ?rtiS qraauate **Outstanaing 00/J(CJ?J;t qraauate  

Glynn will be working at a homeless shelter run by the Holy Cross Association in Phoenix. "I'm very excited about the project," she said. 
The CSC will join the Universi­ty's Office of Campus Ministry and the Alumni Association in sponsoring an August retreat for ND graduates who have com­pleted a year or more of service. 
All seniors who have done ser­vice and who are thinking of doing service are invited to the ceremony, which will take place at 10 a.m. on Saturday, May 20, in Washington Hall. 
mestic and International Pro­grams, each of which receive approximately 15 students apiece per year, Roemer said. 
The Jesuit domestic program is the biggest service organiza­tion outside of the Peace Corps in the United States. Both deal with all types of social work, in­cluding all aspects of working with people in communities. The main difference between the Peace Corps and the other pro­grams is that it is a government run program and is not reli­giously affiliated. 
Many other teaching and ser­vice projects that are smaller and less well known tradition­ally interest students. Some of them involve teaching in specific areas of the country or a partic­ular city's schools. Decisions based on these may depend on where the student wishes to do service. 
One quarter of the students doing post-graduate service this year will be going to a foreign country, Roemer said. Countries in Africa and Europe. as well as Japan, Mexico, New Zealand and islands in the South Pacific are included this year, among others. 
Roemer said that there is not one particular type of student that goes into volunteer work after graduation. 
"About half of the people who do volunteer work have been active in other service projects," she said, adding that many stu­dents are active in other activi­ties and have not had time to engage in service projects dur­ing their school years. 
"It's a great tribute to the stu­dent body that they are as com­mitted as they are to service," she said. 
r 
)

CELEBRATED EVENTS 
Comprehensive Wedding Coordinating and Party Planning 
CYNTHIA BASKER 
302 East Donaldson Avenue Mishawaka, Indiana 46545 
219 258-5482 


1
,. 

I
Congrats! 
john, 
we are proud of you. 
.50 yards."
'' • • 
Love, 
Kathy, Mom and Dad 
~ountry :Harvester Presents 

IRISH.VILLAGE 

·Howard Hall 

·Walsh ·Dillon
We are pleased to Announce 
Additions to our Collection of 
·Morrisey Manor
Notre Dame Buildings 
·Law School 
•School ofArchitecture
Congratulations Graduates and Parents! 
10% OFF all IRISH VILLAGE BUILDINGS 

OFflClALLY UCENSED PRODUITOF
THIS WEEKEND 
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Visit us in the Lower Level ofthe LaFortune Student Center 

.--------------------------------------------------...... 
Friday, May 19, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Four rectors to 'graduate' along with class of '95 
By LIZ FORAN 
Associate News Edi10r 
The season of saying good­bye extends this year not only to the graduating seniors, but to a few dorm rectors as well. 
This year, four out of the 25 dorm heads are leaving, includ­ing Sister Marietta Murphy of Badin llall, Sister Joris Binder of Pasquerilla East, Ms. Judy Hutchinson of Breen-Phillips Hall and Father Eugene Gorski of St. Edwards Hall. 
Murphy has been at Notre Dame for the past 15 years, all as the rector of Badin Hall, the smallest women's dorm on campus. 
Because the dorm is small, Murphy said it allowed for a great sense of community. 
"It's the people who make Notre Dame special, and espe­cially the women of Badin Hall," she said. ''I'm very proud of the over 1,000 women I've gotten to know in the past 15 years." 

ACOUSTIC SOUNDS OF 
EMI~R.~ 
COMPACT DISC COMING FALL '95 SENIOR MAIL ORDERS AVAILABLE! Call 634-4238 
or 

(413) 567-6255 
Murphy said the decision to leave was her own choice, be­cause "I believe there is a time for everything. I have been a part of this rich environment for the past 15 years, and it's time to let someone else come and share in some of the hap­piness I've had." 
Murphy will now devote full time to working on the retire­ment fund for the Sister Ser­vants of the Immaculate Heart of Mary, the order she belongs to. 
She was made an Honorary Alumnae by the Alumni Asso­ciation earlier this year. 
Only 15 people have received this award and Murphy is only the second woman to receive it. 
Binder, who is in her 11th year as rector of P.E., is only the dorm's second rector since it was built in 1981. She spent two years as an assistant rector at Lewis Hall before going to P.E. 
Not actually leaving the Uni­versity, Binder has accepted a 
George Bieberbach J.J. Juntunen Chris Blanford Kyle Kusek Ryan Bolster Ted Liebler Eric Bradley Paul MacKenzie 
Larry Brotherton Gerard Marra Brian Carrico Brian McCandless Patrick Carroll Tom Moran Fred Dini TomPak 
John Duffy Terry Porter Josef Evans Pat Rogers Dan Farrell Matt Schaub 
TomFina Todd Schmidt Michael Gayles Andrij Susla Hugo Guevara Tony Tedeschi Jeff Hagkull Avelino Verceles John Jennings Tim Bayer 
position as the Associate Direc­tor of the Center of Continuing Formation in Ministry. The CCFM sponsors sabbaticals ev­ery semester for clergy mem­bers and those in ministry. Binder will work with the pro­gram's director Father Gene Lauer in planning the four month long retreats. 
Binder said her favorite part of Notre Dame was working with the women in the dorm community, and helping them in leadership development. 
"Rectors have a real bond with the dorm community," she said. 
Binder says what she will miss most about the University, aside from the people here, is the sense of genuine commu­nity and cooperation that exists in almost all administrative facets. 
"It's not a top down ap­proach," she said, "whether it's hall government or Student Affairs, its people working to­gether." 
Congratulations
CARL 
WE'RE SO PROUD OF YOU 
Love Mom, Dad & Mike 
"Leaving is bittersweet," she added. 
Hutchinson has been the rec­tor of Breen-Phillips for the past nine years, and is leaving the dorm to become a residence director of the London Program for the next two years. 
She is uncertain where she will go when the two years are over. 
"Over the years I've gotten to see people grow, learn and de­velop," she said. ''I'm going to miss the dorm." 
She added that being a rector is tiring, because "you live where you work, so you never really get to go home. I'm ready to go, but I'm starting to get a little sad. It's hard to say good­bye to everyone." 
Gorski has been a teacher and rector at Notre Dame since 1971, except for two years which he spent in Angers, France with the University pro­gram. 
He is leaving to accept a posi­tion as Vice President of Stu­dent Affairs at King's College in Wilkes-Barre, Penn. King's College was founded by Holy Cross Fathers from Notre Dame and has a full-time enrollment of 1,800 students. Gorski plans to continue his teaching and research career in theology at the college. 
"I am profoundly grateful to all the spirited men of noble St. Edward's and I will surely miss sharing my life with them," he said. 
While these rectors move on with the class of '95 to new challenges, they will be re­membered by the dorms and the Notre Dame community that they cherish themselves. 
Yiar, 
~----SSA,Of 1995 
Mitchell Bills Rob Bleil Matt Bower Pat Braley Joe Brownfiel Joe Carroll Dave Clear Brian Dolasinski, Law School Joe Dziedzic Tyler Fanner JackFenn Dan Flores JohnGonnan Dan Gutchewsky Ed Hahnenberg Bruce Johnson 
Ryan Derrigan Joe Kovach Chris Linkimer Joe Marko David Matiskella Dan Monahan Tim Oberholzer GregPiniak Dave Powell Beronie Richardson Jim Schermerhorn Toby Sclmeider Aaron Summers Chet Taff Mike Vassallo Sean Wilson 

P!lge 8 The Observer • NEWS Friday, May 19, 1995 
From Board of Trustees to RA: Berg leads the way 
By JESSICA BAITLE 
News Writer 
When asking Kristina Berg, a senior humanistic studies and communications double major, what she has accomplished in her four years at Saint Mary's, it is evident what an essential part of the college's community she has become. 
Berg, who hails from Lansing, Michigan, began her in­volvement at Saint Mary's with service as a resident advisor (RA), which she continued for two years. She was chosen as one of the two RAs in Augusta Hall, the all-senior dorm. 
Her involvement continued with her election as a voting party to the Board of Trustees, being the only student to occu­py a chair. Berg was responsi­ble for bringing the ideas and concerns of the student body to the attention of the Board of Trustees. 
Saint MB17's Honors Convocation 
•Valedictorian Medal  Tonya Sunday  
eSaint Catherine Medal  Teresa Radostits  
eSr. M. Franzita Kane  Eileen Davenport  Jennifer O'Dell  
Writing Awards  Nancy Strzdecki  
•Doro~ Manier Writing·  Allison LaMontagne  Lori Mrowka  

Awa· s Alison Dasso 
•Helen 
Carroll Award In Emily DeAngelis Religious Studies Kate Sullivan 

eSr. Annice Donovan Heather Matula Prize for Philosophical Writing 

•Those 
graduating Gina Fortunato Mary Riesenberg 



Summa Cum Laude HilaryHumm Tonya Sunday Kristina Uaugaudas 
Art Patricia Christensen Jeannine Keeter Emily Lincoln Beth Broghammer 
Blo1:!8y
Chemstry .bmah 1-ta:kerbLd< Adrienne Karpiel 
Kimberly Gropp Communication, Dance, Theresa Causa Jennifer Puplava Theatre Education Kellie Borzenski Shelly Lebiedzinski 
Trisha Genovese English Amy Hartzler Suzanne Bailey 
Cristan Reigrut History Maura Sullivan Deborah Sheedy Humanistic Studies Amy Hartzler Mathematics Elizabeth Go Modern Languages Kara Wegener Nancb Strzelecki Nursing Andrea Coolsaet Rene le Baldwin 
Political Science Edie Gierlnger Laura Scul~ Jennifer 0' ell Psychology Gina Fortunato Meredith Dodge Stephanie Prevost 
Soclol~, Anthropology, Alison Sciaudone Felicia Coleman Social ork · Women's Studies Megan Ryan 

• Unique and one..-of·a..-kind jewelry • •At Affordable Prices • 
•Getting Engaged? 

• Need a Graduation Gift? Stop by or call for an appointment Wed..Fri 10..3 
Gray Building w/Red Doors Across from Tracks 
2030 South Bend Ave. (219)2 73,1041 
Berg's position on the Board of Trustees also brought her into contact with the Board of Governance, a student organi­zation consisting of class offi­cers and other members of the student body. 
"Students are the real reason why Saint Mary's exists," said Berg. She stressed the impor­tance of interaction between the administration and stu­dents. 
"I wish that every student 
could have the chance to come in contact with the Board mem­bers," Berg said. 
One of Berg's latest interests has been her membership on the Senior Drive Leadership Committee, whose main goal is to encourage seniors to con­tribute to the fund given as a gift to Saint Mary's from the seniors upon graduation. 
For the past semester, Berg has been interning at the Holy Cross Care Services, an organi­zation of health care compa­nies, where she has been re­sponsible for researching and interviewing various health care firms. With this informa­tion, she will help create a film for Holy Cross Care Services. 
Berg will continue her educa­tion further in the pursuit of a Ph.D. in higher education ad­ministration. She hopes to work at a small college and possibly return to Saint Mary's one day. 



Andrew Alters Mike Bett Brendan Gardiner David Warneke 

Thanks for all you've done for the mail distribution center over the years. Best of luck to you all from all of us at the mail center and support services. 

~~= 



~--~--------~----~-----------.----------------------------~------------------------------------------------------~--~------------------------, 

The College of Business Administration offers heartfelt congratulations and 
Friday, May 19, 1995 
Sunday 
continued from page 1 
Sunday attributes her aca­demic and extracurricular suc­cess primarily to time man­agement. 
"If you aspire to be involved in a lot of activities, you must m.anage your time," Sunday said. 
Sunday also attributes her success to Saint Mary's. "I de­cided to attend Saint Mary's when I heard Dr. Feigl speak during Spring Day on Campus. 
/lfoff (U<(• UJlUVII!'J i,oitetl to atte,tfthe• 
(J(~ntin• 1Jofuntee'• (J(~n£1 {9/f• 
to !Je held , l(tltu•tk[f/ ,j/(ff/ .20, (l)9.:> /O:OOam 
at 




dotit'! oo!ttnlen• mrnW [t/ln~ 'l'•tu!tuttion amithet~· fiimi('/ mu(j/vf.•ml\· 
She said that Saint Mary's women come out with an enor­mous sense of self-confidence," Sunday said. 
"And I came to Saint Mary's not because I didn't have self­confidence, but because I looked at these women from the college and noticed it was true -they did have a quiet confidence," she said. 
In 1994, Saint Mary's was ranked number one in its cate­gory of Regional Liberal Arts Colleges by the U.S. News and World Report annual survey of American colleges and univer­sities. 

The Observer • NEWS page 9 
Morris ends ND 'adventure' 
By LIZ FORAN 
Associate News Editor 
"The class of 1995 will have another graduate," said philos­ophy Professor Tom Morris with a laugh. 
Morris, one of the most popu­lar undergraduate professors at Notre Dame, will be leaving at the end of this year to return to his home state of North Car­olina. In his 14 years with the University, he has made quite a name for himself both on cam­pus and nationally. 
Every semester, students scramble to get into Morris's philosophy classes due to his unorthodox teaching style and obvious love of his subject. 
"I like to try different things every semester, " he said. "I try to make every class imagina­tively vivid for my students." 
Some of Morris's classroom antics involve tossing candy bars out to the students at the beginning of every class, in or­der to "wake people up and get the circulation going." 
Morris uses other "gimmicks" to spark his students' interest in the daily subject matter. One of his favorites, he said, is the gimmick he uses to show stu­dents the concept of life after death by giving them a "near death experience." 
"I lead them step by step through a heart attack, and then shut off all the lights. While the lights are off, I change into all white, then have my T.A. hit me with a flash­light. I'm the light at the end of the tunnel," he laughed. 
He stressed that every one of his gimmicks has an educa­tional purpose. 
"I like to try different things every semester," he added. "I feel if teaching can't be some­thing really special, then I should do something else." 
Morris's decision to leave the University did not start off as a permanent design. Instead, he 


tZCCtJ!7(ttdhnmtJ 
simply planned on taking a "sabbatical" in order to "refresh and recharge." 
"Every several years it is cus­tomary to give people a few years off to write and to relax," Morris explained. He plans on beginning his sabbatical after this year to work on two new book contracts. 
While contemplating his sab­batical, Morris said that he kept getting a feeling that he should move to Wilmington, North Carolina. Although born and raised in North Carolina, he had never been to Wilmington. 
"I just had a strange feeling that I was supposed to move to Wilmington," he said. "My fam­ily and I went there to visit and we found a house we liked." 
Morris emphasized that it was not a better teaching posi­tion offer that made him decide to leave Notre Dame. "It wasn't another university calling," he said. "It was the beach calling." Morris also said that most of his and his wife's family still live in North Carolina, and the move would allow them to see more of their relatives. 
After his move, Morris plans to continue to give talks to dif­ferent companies and organiza­tions around the nation. 
"I like to give people a frame­work of information and ideas for thinking about their lives and moving in positive di­rections," he said. 
As far as what the future will hold in the long term, Morris is unsure. "I might go back to teaching," he said. "It may be that this is the beginning of something new in life. You have to be open to that. Life is sup­posed to be an adventure, and this is a new turn in the road." 
----~­

------~--~-­
The Observer • NEWS 
ND Grads 
continued from page 1 
mony)." said Cavanaugh's Rachel Howard, who hails from Chicago. "It really doesn't seem like this is the week I'm gradu­ating. though. These four years have gone fast," said Howard who plans to travel after grad­uation. 
Condoleeza Rice, provost of Stanford University and a 197 5 graduate of Notre Dame, will be the principal speaker at Sunday's commencement, and will receive and honorary doc­tor of laws degree from the University. 
Rice became Stanford's

University President Father Edward Malloy and Executive Vice President Father 
on hand for a March dedication ceremony of the University of Notre Dame Australia's provost in 1993 at the age of 38, making her the youngest person to hold that job. She is
NDA dedicates statue of Blessed Virgin also the first woman, and first 
By DAVE TYLER 
News Editor 
The University of Notre Dame Australia now has more in common artistically with its American namesake. It has its own statue of Mary to display as a symbol to all those who visit campus. 
This spring, Notre Dame's "down under" counterpart un­veiled "Our Lady," a statue by Australian sculptor Peter Schipperheyn. The statue, con­sisting of an image of Mary and an adolescent Jesus, was com­missioned by Notre Dame and will greet visitors to the University. 
Schipperheyn said he had his own vision of the mother and 
-0~} 1 ­
> /~:~ ; ,~: :q ;;;,-* 

Looking for a place to stay during: .. Jli~Yi-i..un~ft~llend? (~ cft~«Jd.,li Weekend? (~ Weddings? (~Home Football Games? Alumni Renting Out Historic Home For ND Special Events 
•Close 
to Campus (Just 2 miles Away!) 

•Safe 
Neighborhood 

•Competitive 
Rates 

•Fully 
Equiped Kitchen 

•University 
Club access 

•Summit 
Club access 

•5 
private suites w/ individual baths 

•Accomodates 
up to 14 



Available to Show by Appointment Call Helenfor More Information@ 219 287-8163 

In Appreciation Of Their Dedicated Service and Efforts Over The Past Year, 
Brother Edward Congratulates The Graduating 1994-1995 Fisher Residence Staff: 
MIKE PAESE, ASST. RECTOR KEVIN ARENBT, RA JAKE LUSTIG, RA DAN McGINTY, RA MIKE RAUNE, RA PAT WOLF, RA 
"Pride, Unity , Respect, Concern" 
African-American to occupy
child tandem. 
the post. Rice has been a
"Mary is usually depicted as 
member of the advisory council 
protecting her child," he said. 
for Notre Dame's College of
"But this is different -he is on 
Arts and Letters since 1991. 
the threshold of manhood. 
In addition to recognizing
"Still within his mother's 
Rice, the University will award 
care, yes, but aware of his des­
honorary degrees to: Eleanor
tiny and already beginning to 
Baum, dean of engineering at
go out into the world." 
The Cooper Union; James
The Fremantle Gazette con­
Billington, librarian of
tributed to this report. 
Congress; Sister Maura Bran-

Friday, May 19, 1995 
nick, founder of the Chapin Street Health Center in South Bend; Cardinal Edward Cas­sidy, president of the Pontifical Council for Promoting Christian Unity; Desire Collen, professor of medicine at the University of Belgium; Roberto Goizueta, chairman of the board and chief executive offi­cer of the Coca-Cola Company; Alan Greenspan, chairman of the board of governors of the Federal Reserve System; William Hickey, president of Saint Mary's; Dolores Leckey, executive director of the Secretariat of Family Laity, Women, and Youth of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops; Pedro Rosello, gover­nor of Puerto Rico; Ray Siegfried II chairman of the board and chief executive offi­cer of The Nordham Group; and Jose Zalaquett, Chilean 
Human Rights activist. 
Joseph Cardinal Bernardin of Chicago will accept the Univer­sity's Laetare Medal. Bernardin has been archbishop of Chicago since 1982 and was elevated to the position of car­dinal in 1983. Previously, he served as auxiliary bishop of Atlanta and as archbishop of Cincinnati. 
Recycle The Observer 
•Specializing in engagement rings & anniversary rings· ·Award Winning Designs• •Custom Design and Repairs· 
Engagement Rings 
10%-15% OFF! Official Wholesale Price List! 

·~
.. JEWELERS INC. 
S.A. Peck & Co. 
277 1010 
55 E. Washington, Chicago, IL 60602 For a Fre~ 32-Page Color Calalog Toll-Free (800) 922-0090 FAX (312) 977-0248 
.Cleveland Rd. East of UP Mall & US 31 North Villiage Mall
Internet CaJalogaJ http: llwww.sapeck.com/sapeck 
C 

atholicism is the world's most familiar religion, yet many facets of this varied and dynamic tradition • remain unknown or poorly understood. Now Richard P. McBrien, author of Catholicism, and an editorial team from the University of Notre Dame present the most comprehensive, easy-to-use guide to the people and forces that have shaped the Church over nearly two millennia. 
The HarperCollins Encyclopedia of Catholicism includes more than 4,200 entries written by 280 leading experts from around the world and across the theological spectrum. A concise 
guide for understanding Catholic terms and names, the 
encyclopedia also includes superb feature-length entries that 
offer a balanced perspective on subjects ranging from the 
seven sacraments, jesus, the Holy Spirit, the Blessed Virgin 
Mary, Peter, Paul, Augustine, and Aquinas, to prayer, Christian 
spirituality, women in the Church, and Vatican II-providing 
a fuller understanding of the changes and trends in the 
Church today. 
"The most assiduous student of Catholicism, inside and out­side the church, will be hard-pressed to name a relevant topic, large or small, that hasn't been included in this book." -Theodore Hesburgh 
Hardcover • $45.00 • ISBN 0-06-065338-8 
:= HarperSanFrancisco 
A Dr.~Worr of HarpcrCollinsPrtblulxn Abo ~WiLtble from HarpcrCollinsGa:n..d.tLid. 
SPECIAL OFFER 
Pre-publication price of $39.95 
The HarperCollins Encyclopedia of Catholicism 
Order Now! Offer expires june 30,1995. 
Add $3.00 for shipping and handling and applicable sales tax. 
To order, call TOLL FREE 800-331-3761 and tell the operator your order number is 502811. 



-------------------------~------------------------~-­
Friday, May 19, 1995 
The Observer • NEWS page 11 

DelReal wins inaugural Zora Zorich scholarship 

By BRAD PRENDERGAST Associate News Editor 
·Jose DelReal has a valuable 
reason to be glad that C h r i s Zorich's level of intensity on the field matches his level of gen­erosity oiT it. 
DelReal, a senior at George Washington High School in Chicago, has been selected as the first recipi­ent of the Zora Zorich scholar­ship at Notre Dame. 

Established by Chris Zorich, a 1991 Notre Dame alumnus who now is a defensive lineman for the Chicago Bears, the scholar­ship honors the spirit and val­ues of his late mother. Renewable for three additional years, the scholarship is worth $5,000 annually. 

'-../"£xP-~., 

6239 University Commons Drive South Bend,lndlana 46635 
(219) 272· 6702 Chinese, Vietnamese, & American Food Lunch 11 :00 a.m. • 3:00 p.m. Dinner menu will be served after 3:00p.m. 
15 Years of Service Award The Chamber Of Commerce St. Joseph County 
"Enjoy a unique experience in Oriental Dining" 
• 
Fresh Ingredients 

• 
Lunch Specials starting at $3.50 include: egg roll, soup and tea 

• 
Dinners starting at $5 

• 
Private Dining Booths 

•Custom 
cooking with no MSG 

• 
Vegetarian Menu 

•15 
Years of Service Award 


For Reservations &Carry Out Call: 
272-6702 
For Dine-In Delivery Call: 
272-2328 
Congratulations class of '95! Reward yourself with 25% off any purchase. Hope to see you again! 


DelReal, who will be a fresh­man this fall, was chosen by Zorich from among Chicago­area high school students who had applied for admittance to the University. The eight final­ists were selected on the basis of their outstanding academic and personal accomplishments. 
DelReal, a football player in high school and a member in student government, graduated in the top 1% of his class. 
"Jose is a very fine young man -a very deserving young man -who has done excep­tionally well academically as well as in his community," said Joe Russo, director of financial aid, "despite growing up in some difficult circumstances." 
With the help of a loving fam­ily and coaches and counselors, DelReal has resisted the influ­ence of the gangs that inhabit his area of Chicago. 
"In some ways, his life paral­lels my own," Zorich, who was raised by his mother in an im­poverished south side Chicago neighborhood, told Notre Dame Public Relations. "Jose truly exemplifies my mom's beliefs and attitudes about life -to be honest, work hard, do what's right, respect others. 


"I can see in his eyes that he has the mental attitude to suc­ceed at Notre Dame," he said 
Russo and the other panelists who chose Jose for the scholar­ship agreed. 
"We felt Jose best personified the characteristics which the Zora Zorich scholarship in­tended to memorialize," Russo said. "I am confident that he will be an equally successful Notre Dame person, contribut­ing much to the Notre Dame community." 
Zorich graduated with a bachelor's degree in American studies. He was a three-time All-American selection for the Irish and won the 1990 Lom­bardi Award as college footbal­l's most outstanding lineman. 
To Our Graduating Students: 
The Office of University Computing extends it heartfelt thanks for your hard work and dedicated service in our computer clusters, instructional programs, and special projects. 
Congratulations and Best Wishes for Your Continued Success! 
Office of University Computing • University of Notre Dame 
Chosen by the Bears in the sec­ond round of the 1991 NFL draft, he has started at defen­sive tackle for the past two sea­sons. 
Zora Zorich died on January 2, 1991, the day after her son played his final game for the Irish in the Orange Bowl. 
"I started this scholarship be­cause my mom told me the best four years of her life were her last four when I was at Notre Dame," Zorich said. "She just so much enjoyed the University and being a part of it through me. I wanted to give someone else's parents that same kind of opportunity." 
In conjunction with his own Chris Zorich Foundation, Zorich funds the scholarship through his accomplishments on the football field. For each of his tackles and sacks, as well as for each sack recorded by the Notre Dame defense, Zorich contributes $97, matching his uniform number. 
Chern grad heads west for research 
By PEGGY LENCZEWSKI Saint Mary's News Editor 
Adrienne Karpiel will spend the next year in Richmond, Washington, doing radiation chemistry research with Pacific Northwest Labs before moving on to graduate school. 
In search of a constant chal­lenge, Karpiel decided to become a chemistry major during her sophomore year. Karpiel has worked in the Chemistry Department ever since, as a teaching assistant and as a lab preparer. 
"I will miss the closeness of the department," she said. "It was a lot of fun to be a part of it, and the close relationships between the professors and the students is what makes Saint Mary's so wonderful. We have a lot of opportunities here because of that." 
And Karpiel has taken advantage or those opportuni­ties. She received the American Institute or Chemistry Award in 1994, and she and a friend shared the American Chemical Society Award for Analytical Chemistry this year. 
Karpiel will go onto graduate school after her year-long in­ternship in Washington ends, and hopes to do post-doctoral research in biological chem­istry or physical chemistry. 
Spend Your $IN Europe Not Getting There 

CATCIAIID£ ON AJET TO EIIOPI tlis IUmllltr lor peanuts. AIIHITat', the student..foundtd system olacceu to commercial ftighb that has helped thowands of Wllnderlusty studtnls de (..-ope on abudget since 19691 
ean800·326·2009 
lor ywr REI ~m dt~tion. 
AI reptl1e4 ill c-.llpWh lrnellenw, ltt'l Gt, the Wethifttt•l'ed, lol&ng Slone. 

Congratulations to Farley's Finest Seniors! Good Luck! Dionne Adams Monica Garcia Katherine Neville Julia Barry Monique Garcia SaraNoe Catherine Barton Cara Garvey Laurie 0'Brien ]ulia Becker Erica Gressock Diane O'Connor Margo Burchaell ]ennifer Hampton Kelly O'Neill Mary Ellen Conte Marie Hauck Joanna Parsons ]ennifer Dahl Karen Kipp Nicole Pelle Helen Dieteman Rebecca Law Christy Peters Alyssa Dotte Laura Makowski Amy Santangelo ]ill Eckelkamp Donna Mallett Rebecca Saydek Mary Beth Ficco Rachel Meuleman ]ennifer Schenher Lisa Flanigan Colleen Michuda Belen Serrano Betsy Frigo Christina Mulinazzi Elizabeth Stefko Julianne Gade Amy Miller Kay Wakatake Joanne Gallagher Christine Miller Amy Wuestefeld Eileen Murphy  

page 12 The Observer • NEWS Friday, May 19, 1995 
Colleges, Law School announce teaching awards 

By GWENDOLYN NORGLE 
Assistant News Ediror 
In recognition of their out­standing teaching, a number of awards were given to members of the Notr-e Dame faculty in the Colleges of Science, Business, Arts and Letters, and the Law School. 
• In the College of Science, Frederick Goetz, professor of biological sciences, has been awarded the 1995 Shilts/Leonard Teaching Award, according to Francis Castellino, dean of the college and Kleiderer-Peziod professor of chemistry and biochemistry. 
Popular as a teacher of mam­malian physiology, Goetz leads a large course of up to 300 stu­dents, who are mostly prepro­fessional studies majors. More recently, Goetz has taught the second semester of general biology, which is an even larger and "more demanding" class, John Duman, chair of the bio­logical sciences department, said. 
The Shilts/Leonard award recognizes outstanding teach­ing and memorializes the Rev­erend James Shilts, noted Notre Dame astronomy and astro­physics professor. 
A committee of Goetz's peers, students, and former winners of this award decided to give the award to Goetz, according to Associate Dean of the College of Science Charles Kulpa, Jr. 
"Goetz is deserving of the award because he is concerned with the students' well-being, and he provides them with up­to-date information in a man­ner that is enjoyable to them," Kulpa said 
,.. 

• In the College of Arts and Letters, A. James McAdams, associate professor of govern­ment and international studies, has won the 1995 Sheedy award for excellence in teach­ing, according to Harold At­tridge, Shuster dean of the col­lege and professor of theology. 
The award has been given annually since 1970 in memory of Charles Sheedy, former dean of the college. McAdams is a faculty fellow of Notre Dame's Helen Kellogg Institute for In­ternational Studies and Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1992, 
"McAdams has an excellent reputation among students and the government department as a lecturer in large classes and as a fine professor in smaller settings," Attridge said. "He has gone out of his way to men­tor students." 
In the Colleges of Business and Engineering, the Amoco Foundation announced Ralph Chami, assistant professor of fmance, Michael Stanisic, asso­ciate professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering, and William Terando, assistant professor of accountancy, as the recipients of its 1995 Teaching Awards for outstand­ing undergraduate teaching. 
• 
Chami, who joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1991, was graduated from the Ameri­can University in Beirut in 1983. He received his master's degree in business administra­tion from the University of Kansas in 1986, his master's degree in 1988, and his doc­torate from John Hopkins Uni­versity in 1992. 

• 
Stanisic has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1988. In addition to his re­search in robotics, specifically singularity-free manipulation systems, Stanisic has taught engineering graphics, inter-



Writers, like teeth, are divided into incisors and grinders --Walter Bagehot 
The Department of Public Relations and Information congratulates our graduating student interns, sharp writers all. 
Brett Boessen Kara Christopherson Christy Frederick Meghan Kelley 
mediate dynamics, introduction to design, theory of design and senior design. 
• 
Terando, a 1979 graduate of California State University at Hayward, began teaching at Notre Dame in 1992. He re­ceived his master's degree in taxation from Golden Gate Uni­versity in 1986 and his doctor­ate in business administration from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign in 1993. 

• 
The Notre Dame Law School 


announced Associate Professor Jay Tidmarsh as the recipient of its Teacher of the Year Award. The third year law stu­dents selected Tidmarsh in an election conducted by the Stu­dent Bar Association. 
"Tidmarsh is deserving of the decades-old award because he is an excellent teacher who pays tremendous attention to students," Associate Dean of the Law School Fernand Dutile said. 
!Rapfuud~ 
MEXICAN FOOD 
"Texas Style Cooking" 
115 Dlxleway North (U.S. 31&33) • Roseland, IN 46637 
NOW OPEN 
Serving the best Mexican food in Michiana. Everything made from scratch! 
Hours: Mon.-Fri. 11:00-9:00 Sat. 4:00-10:00 
Dine In -Carry Out 
273-1500 
rcrraiid openiiiiSPeCfa7sj 
1. Taco Dinner I
12. Burrito Dinner (all dinners served w/ rice and beans) 
p. Enchilada Dinner I I All Dinner Specials • Dine-In or Carry Out 1 
L__~~:~N~ !:~~c~'::~:_ _J 

Graduation 
Congratulations 
j@lime~ IFllyrmim 
Notre Dame '95 
THE WORLD IS YOURSI 
Lovexxxx Dad, Mom jack 

conuften:c:e...eat 
{~m~·~,,,,... ~-~tci11.:=~·=~:=:},:::· ;::;>::: ..,,,,,,, .. , .. 
Baccalaureate Mass are available!!! 
Pick up order £ora.s in all dora.s 8 £ron. Educational Media 
~---illl 
Educational Media 
University of Notre Dame 

Room 9 of the CCE Bldg. P.O. Box 1088 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
219 • 631 • 5465 


Friday, May 19, 1995 
The Observer • NEWS 

Kroeger 
continued from page 1 
members, according to Sister Kathleen Cannon, associate provost and coordinator of the selection. 
Candidates were also evalu­ated on their academic perfor­mance, ability to give a com­~encement address, and par­ticipation in school activities, Cannon said. 
Kroeger, who was also a Ful­bright scholar semifinalist and a Hhodes Scholar quarterfinal­ist, was Editor-in-Chief of the Humanitas undergraduate aca­demic journal for two years and served on both the English and romance languages depart­ments' honor code committees for two years and one year, re­spectively. 
The Milwaukee, Wisconsin, native also worked in the re­serve book room and the audio­visual center of the Hesburgh Library for three years. 
Kroeger's heavy involvement in a number of activities is sur­prising when one considers that she can be somewhat reserved. Though very personable, 

ATTENTION SENIORS! 
MA;~~~NTEER 
'}:>ROGRAM 
Teach primary, secondary levels (no certification needed), school counseling, parish ministry, direct service work-shelters, soup kitchens-
in: 

New York City, Massachusetts, Chicago, Texas, Virgin Islands and Mexico. Call (914) 738-8640 for information 
26 FIRST AVENUE PELHAM, NEW YORK 10803 
HEW US MAKE A DIFFERENCE! 
Kroeger admits that she can be shy at times. 
"I've struggled a lot with be­ing shy. In my admissions es­say [to enter Notre Dame], I talked about overcoming shy­ness," she said. "But once I get to know a person, I can be very outgoing... some would even say assertive." 
The variety and quantity of activities helped solidify Kroeger's candidacy, she said. 
"It helped that I had been in­volved in activities and had worked a lot [12-20 hours] dur­ing the week," she said. "I re­ally enjoy organized activities. They're a good break from schoolwork. They're fun." 
Kroeger's success will culmi­nate this Sunday when she gives the valedictory address at commencement exercises. The topic of her speech will center on farewells, she said. 
"We're not saying good-bye to Notre Dame," she said. "We're saying good-bye to the parts of ourselves that have changed over the last four years." 
Congratulations Graduates! 
Edison Plaza-1631 Edison Rd. 
(across /rom the Linebacker) 
(219)273-621 (J 

Monday-Tuesday 7:00a.m.-10:00p.m. Wednesday-Tlmrsday 7:00a.m.-Midniglll Saturday 9:00a.m.-Midnight 
The Sheen factor 
Actor and Irish fan Martin Sheen was on campus Tuesday to narrate a video on Notre Dame's 20 greatest victories, to be released this fall. 
THE OBSERVER NEWS DEPARTMENT CONGRATU­LATES ITS SENIORS: NANCY DUNN EDWARD IMBUS DAVE RING THANKS FOR THE MEMORIES 

CONGRATULATIONS TO THE 1995 GRADUATES 
From the College of Science Faculty and Staff 
Congratu[ations to 

rrlie C{ass of1995 
for your commitment to service ana justice ana peace May you continue to respona in tfie future to tfie ca{{ to 'act justfy, rove tenaer{y ana wa{/(lium6{y witli (joa 
Witli appreciation, CJ'fie Staff of %e Center for Socia[ Concerns 
Sarah K ... Another Goal Reached 
Congratulations! 
Love, Mom, Dad& Gretchen 


--~--~----­
-~-~----­

The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT May 19, 1995 

The Office of Residence Life and the Office of Student Affairs wishes to thanl{. the -1994-95 Residence Hall ­Assistants for their hard worl{. and dedication this year. 
Congratulations and Good luck! 
Matthew Aman Joe Feller Jon Lindberg Paul Pribaz 
Kevin Arendt Kristin Fernandez Kira Lodge Lynn Quenan Heather Arnold Marylynne Fillmon Matthew Loesch Elizabeth Reres Colleen Baker Suzanne Fodor John Long Andrea Ricker 
Catherine Barton James Frabutt Rocio Lopez Ricardo Rios 
B. Marc Baumann Mary Freeman Jeffrey Lungren Kristen Rossigno 
Dirk Bedford Clare Furay Jacob Lustig Michael Ruane Elissa Bell Lorraine Garner David Mahoney Joshua Sagucio 
M. Emma Bellis Patrick Gibbons Robert Maida Dana Scherle Jeffrey Bocan Ryan Grabow Alexander Marchetti Todd Schmidt Ryan Bolster Erica Gressock Laura Marhoefer Joseph Schueller 
Steven Bordenkircher Karen Gunther Joseph Marko Michael Semo David Bozanich Emily Rage Kelly Martin Timothy Shannon Eric Bradley Edward Hahnenberg Meredith McCarthy Michael Shea 
William Broderick Lori Hanchin Mara McConville Kathleen Sheil James Cafarella Allyson Hardin Kelly McCullough Archana Sheshadri Geoffrey Caplea Marie Hauck Bill McFarlane Michael 1. Sofield 
Dominic Carreira Eric Hillegas Daniel McGinty Samantha Spencer 1ames Carroll Daniel Hilson Katelyn McGuire Elizabeth Stefko Stephanie Carson Tim Hipp Kimberly McGuire Daniel Sullivan Matthew Casey Maura Hogan Sean McHugh Sarah Swaykus 
Egin Chen Jennifer Horan Sean McKenna Aimee Terry Chad Christophersen Melissa Hurd Melissa McPike Michael Thurlow Elizabeth A. Connors Christine Hurley Sean Meehan Jennifer Tilghman 
Laura Considine Felicia Johnson Kristen Mikolyzk Michelle Trager Michael A. Cook Elizabeth Jordan Christine Miller Christine Trainor Amy Cooper Joel Junker Jason Mohr Dennis Verdico Sofia Coracides Erin Kelleher Robert Mundt Daniel Vogt 
M. Brian Coughlin Bernie Keller John Musielewicz David Vossen Daniel DiMeo Kacy Kilner Carl Nicpon Joseph Wagner Roger Donoghue Karen Kipp Jim O'Connor Angela Walker Bret Dooley Charles Kovach Brian O'Donnell Ryan Walker Edward Dunigan Kristen Kudlacik Kelly O'Neill Samuel Watson 
Thomas Eckert Beth Kueter Patrick O'Sullivan Corey Weber Krista Eiseler Kyle Kusek 1ane Oesterle Lou Weber Laura Empey Anthony Laboe Amy Paro Christopher Werling 
Lindsey Esbensen Stephanie Lausier Molly Peeney (A) Sean Wilson 
Jessica Falk Emily Lehrman James Penilla Patrick Wolf Tyler Farmer David Leonard Maura Pheney Abid Yousuf Beth Fehring Ann Lillie Christopher Poe 
We also wish to thank and congratulate the following 
Assistant Rectors who are graduating this year: 
Ms. Gina Killian Mr. Patrick Cooke Ms. Kelly Smith 
Ms. Lena Jefferson Mr. Mark Molloy Mr. Brian Dolasinski Ms. Kara Murphy Mr. Greg Zuschlag Mr. Thomas Perry Mr. Michael Paese Ms. Julie McEvoy Ms. Kathryn Pamenter Mr. Thomas Pace Mr. Thomas Quirk 
• 

Our deepest gratitude to the following Rectors as they leave their current positions. Best wishes to each of you! 
Sr. }oris Binder Rev. Eugene Gorski, C.S.C. Ms. Judy Hutchinson Sr. Marietta Murphy, I.H.M. 
Pasqeurilla East Hall St. Edward's Hall Breen Phillips Hall Badin Hall 

Friday, May 19, 1995 The Observer • NEWS 
S01ith places third on Jeopardy! 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE 
Assistant News Editor 
Many students leaving Notre Dame hope they have a strong base of knowledge with which to start their careers. Having recently placed in the 1995 .Jeopardy College Champi­onship, senior Stephen Smith knows he has this base, and he is confident in his pursuit of his longtime goals. 
Smith, a government and eco­nomics major, earned $12,400 after plaeing third in the televi­sion game show's annual tour­rmment which hosted 15 colle­giate undergraduates nation­wide in a competition testing contestants' factual knowledge. 
Despite the stress of this in­tense competition and the pres­ence of bright lights, cameras, and a studio audience, Smith said his appearance on national television was only nerve­wreeking "at first." Once he re­laxed and foeused, Smith said it was easy to visualize the Jeop­ardy tournament as simply "a matter of eompetition" -earn­petition that Smith handled with ease. 
Smith won his games in the quarterfinal and semifinal rounds of the competition, which consisted of three rounds. In the final round, which lasted two days, Smith had a $2,000 lead. However, after the total dollar amount aceumulated by the competitors in the final round was added, Smith ranked third . 
Prior to the last day of the fi­nal round, Smith says he per­formed well. "Up until the last day, all the categories went my way." He explains that his best question, which was a correct response to a statement by the show's host Alex Trebek, con­cerned politics in 1995. The question was "a Godsend," ac­cording to Smith, who has a strong interest in politics. 
Smith says his earnings from the Jeopardy tournament will provide financial assistance to­ward his career at Georgetown Law School following gradua­tion. The money will help cover expenses and not necessarily tuition. Considering the high cost of tuition at such a rep­utable school of law, Smith says that the money "will certainly help." 
As another one of his perks to being chosen to appear in the Jeopardy tournament, Smith 


Happy 21st Birthday 
Steve! 
(5/19) 

met Trebek, whom he considers "a niee guy." Trebek asked him how he enjoyed Notre Dame, considering Smith is not a foot­ball player. Smith responded that it is just as exciting to be a student at Notre Dame as it is to be an athlete. Smith also took the opportunity of being on national television to say "hello" to his fellow residents of Alumni Hall. 
Smith tried out for the show on November 5 in Milwaukee after responding to an adver­tised search for college contes­tants that was announced at the end of one of the televised programs. He was notified in January that he had been selected as a finalist from among 150 of the most intelli­gent college students in the country to compete in the championship. The shows were shown on WSBT-TV in South Bend during the first two weeks in May. 
Prior to competing in the tournament, Smith says he had always hoped to be a contestant on Jeopardy because he was always a big fan of the show. "I was proud that I had that chance as a representative of Notre Dame." 
SMC 
continued from page I 
and chief executive officer of the Newspaper Association of America, will present the com­mencement address and also receive an honorary degree of letters. 
Black, a graduate of Trinity College, an all-women's college in Washington D.C., was the first woman publisher of a weekly consumer magazine Prior to her current position with the Newspaper Association of America, Black served as president of USA To­day and later became its pub-

. 
He's no Chnsty Peters 
This senior enjoys a great spike at the LewisVolleyball Court. 
lisher. 
She has been named by the Ladies Home Journals as one of the "Fifty Most Powerful Women in America," by Ms. magazine as one of its "Women of the Year," and by the Sara Lee Corporation as the recipi­ent of its Frontrunner Award for business excellence. 
Tonya Sunday will be the valedictorian' for this year's graduating class at Saint Mary's. Sunday, a mathematics major and chemistry minor, achieved a 3. 932 grade point average on a 4.0 scale. 
Several other women will receive honorary degrees at the commencement ceremony. 
An honorary doctorate of laws will be bestowed upon Sister Mary Madonna Murphy, the president of the Center for Study of Faith and Culture in Washington D.C. 
Joyce McMahon Hank will also be honored with a doctor­ate of humanities for her con­tributions to Saint Mary's. Hank, a 1952 alumna of the College graduated cum laude with a bachelor of arts in phi­losophy. She has served on the College Board of Trustees since 1989. 
Sally Cunneen, author, editor, teacher, will be awarded a doc­torate of letters. In 1950, Cun­neen co-founded "Cross Cur­rents," a well-known interna­tional religious quarterly. 
She has written four books, each of which explores the pos­itive implications of the women's religious experience. These include "Sex, Female, Religion, Catholic," "A Contem­porary Meditation on the Ev­eryday God," "Mother Church: What the Experience of Women is Teaching Her" and the just completed "In Search of Mary." 
She was a contributing editor to Christian Century and has been published in Ladies Home Journal, Commonweal, Amer­ica and The Christian Century, among others. She has also served as national program chair of the National Council of Catholic Women. 
The rain site for this year's commencement is Angela Ath­letic Facility. Bishop John D'Arcy of the Fort Wayne/South Bend Diocese will be the presider for the Baccalaureate Mass on Friday at 4 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. 

JPA$r()J1JJJEJR.Jll.LILJl IEA$JT JHU\J1IL ({)(J)l~({DJ.F{Alf1JJJL&.lfiE$ JTJBlJE II~~~ ([jjJR&ID)lJJAJTJJJN((j $JENJl!OJIR CJ.LA$~~ Kellie Abbott Janet Hathaway Dawn Parkot Nicole Anthony Michelle Hayden Mia Pasquinelli Allison Barbeau Shannon Hensley Maura Pheney Autumn Bassinger Norma Hernandez Seena Philip Ann Blum Rachel Howard Emily Puetz Letitia Bowen Emily Husted Susan Ranaghan Beverly Brinkman Kara Jablonowski Kathleen Roddy Jennifer Brooks Lisa Junek Kristina Roderick Veronica Chang Maureen Kelly Kristen Rossigno MaryAnne Colalillo Kimberly Kline Katherine Rutkowski Elizabeth Connors Sarah Kosarko Elizabeth Sbaschnig Megan Conway Angela Kueck Erin Schnicker Amy Cooper Emily Lehrman Jennifer Schnieders Corinna Corbin Carolyn Ligas Amy Siddons Kelly Crawford Lori Lindley Carolyn Smith Heather Della Rocca Tara Lynch Melissa Spence Christine DeMott Laurie MacKenzie Patricia Sullivan Therese Dundon Lisa Mancuso Eliana Tamayo Shannon Dunn Alison Martin Jeanne Tobin Merrie Dwyer Jeannette Martone Michelle Trager Krista Eiseler Stephanie McCann Beth Trigg Megan Farrell Kimberly McGuire Amy VandeKerckhove Jessica Gibson Christine Mesquit Glory Viray Michelle Gibson Elizabeth Morris Brooke Weissert Melissa Gutierrez Anne O'Connor Heather Wiley Rita Hajjar Dana Orlosky Kelly Wood uThe future belongs to those who believe in the beauty of their dreams." -Eleanor Roosevelt  


<Cast(e 8or a(e 
live like a King or Queen in your own imported marble castle. Witl1 two balconies overlooking huge courtyard on 3/4 of a beautifully landscapt..J acre. Walking distance to Notre Dame. Raised Ranch wiU1 private entrance and lower level walk-out. Total of 3,876 sq. ft.! Feature 4 bed­rooms, including large 31x23 round hedroom, 2 full fireplaces, 2 ftJl kitchel1B, 3-1/2 baths including sunken tub. Imported marble tluoughout the house. Extra large meeting room, intercom, security systems, & all appliances included. Unique and one of a kind, must be seen to be appreci­ated. Priced way below market value at $149,000. Extra 3/4 vacant lot also available. 
Call Ted, .ReiMax 100 Reality at 256-ll{X) or wiaJmai/235..3786 

---------------------------------------------------------------~---------------------------­
Page 16 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT May 19, 1995 
David Hungeling Matt Orsagh Tyler Fanner Bridget Conley Joe Ross, c.s.c. Dave Schaarsrnith Joseph Dougherty John Witvliet Michael Driscoll John Melloh Trlda Fanone Sarah Bassler Elizabeth Ballegeer Kathleen McGuire Erln McGinley Ann Hatfield Kelly Brooks DawnVigo Carrie Jennewein Katrina Wonnan Gretchen Weiher Kara Spak Fernanda Ferreira Jennifer Gallant Nicole Valenti Jennifer Griffiths Elizabeth McAvoy Bridgette Hebert Amy Duncliffe Marc DiGiacomo Peter DeLucia Anthony Franze Stanley Wruble Sean Elliott Eric McFadden Julie Shaflucas Katherine Singer Julie Wallman Matt J. Connor Christopher Setti Brad Campbell Tom Fitzpatrick Cristin L'Esperance Jennifer Rockwell Cynthta Egan Regina L. Rathnan Tina Nicdosl Kathleen Mitchell Jennifer Suttan Kristen Kudlacik Gradela Cruz Karen Beck Jamie Matthews Julie MacKlnnor Julie Lyzinski Katie Gatt Eileen Garda 
Liz Abate Anne Hidley Elizabeth Mandlle Shannon Kasten Andrea Kollar Janet Roth Erica VI tina Elizabeth Merritt lennifer Masci Megan Pater Melanie Waters Bridget A. Money Dana Duman Elizabeth A. Dwyer Christa Crane Meaghan Moran Katherine Redding MaryClair Freeman Colleen Carey Joy Kaesebier Julie Audretch Courtney Sosnowski Marissa Palomblt Oaudini Beretz Valerie Childs Anita Varma Isabela Marchi Andrea Topash Kathleen Amer Margo Burtchaell Jeanne LaFleur Maureen Kroha Jennifer Breul Carrie Fulle Corrine Bumlck Ann Zajdel Claire Klttle Daniel E. Ledezma Jenny Layden Giovana Cataldo Marcy Forgey Kaycee Misiewicz Cecylia K. Mizera Julie Yeasted William E Zieske Maureen T. O'connor Matthew Schechter Vonna Seeber Doug Himes Victory E. Shea Abbie Fellrath Edith Margaret Bluhm Helen S. Singmaster James Vrba 
Kelly A. Smith Daniel Chong Bertha K. Amlsi Carmela Lutmar Shankar Ramachandran Estela Romain Larissa Deriglazona Toshlko Oino 
Amy Siegel Emily R. O'keiff Dawn J. Garda Lauren McLeod Evelyn J. Ortiz Colleen A. Hilferty · Erin McMurrough Heather Tomlinson Ina Marie Minjarez Bonnie Katubig Barbara Hillsman Cara Stlrts Joanna Slattery Catherine Navarro Kristin A. Galbreath lisa Lentz Emilie D'Angelis Katy Sullivan Lynn Stem Maureen Davis Megan Horvath Mary B. Good Jill Cooper Carolyn Kimberly Brigid Col,eman Tricia Hamilton Katie Lynch Deanna Canka Allison Casciari Kali Koesler Maradee Mueller Laura Ferguson Jennifer A. Doyle Claudia L. Tudisco Carley Marshall Nina McDowell Siobhan Griffin Tiffany Matula Suzanne Kondratenke Sohela Nazneen Niki Constantinos Beth Lang 
Gina Smith Michelle Abraham Sarah Looney Kathleen Policy Karey Gilmore Kelly Powers Mollie Norton Gabrielle Bielak AnneMarie Joseph Jennifer Dugan Megan Bruchas Mary Mayka Kelly Jennings Shari Matelski Klra Hutchinson Meredith Stajszczak Melissa Hahaj Christa Clous Elizabeth J. Lauinger VyenToTran Nick Brooks Ellen McDonnell Cristina Boita Brian Guze Ruchira Nageswaran Christine Quintos Lorie Fortier Nathan Wallace Sandra N. Avila Brian Lewis Kellie G. Abbott Tarsha White Chris Salla Matt Herriington Dave Freitas Mary E. Nolan Kevin M. Haggard Amanda Martin Charles Scruggs Saurabh Thapliyal Rick Siller Amanda Reichman 
lisa Paquette Shannon Crunk Angle Kelver 
R. Alex Fisch Sarah M. Folstrom Peggy Lenczewski Bridget Blasetti Kara Wegener Jill Hunter Rory Cavanaugh Kristin Pelletier Julie Stevens Amy O'l.aughlin Diann Garlanger Molly Kilmer Neena Cianelli Molly Sweeney Karen Albers Caroline Uhl Julie Mirer Cyndi Hennan Catlterine Bohan Poogie Sheper Meghan Magilligan Kim O'Connell Jennifer Rajala Ashley Ratcliffe Missy Hyman Jama Lyman Erin Shelley Juliet Stancato Tracy Emery Carolyn Gill Kristen Artz Emlly E. Albrecht Julie Powell Katie Trumper Jennifer Farley MegganAwe Teresa Radostits Kristina Campbell Kim Dehner 
Amy Carroll Kathleen McCann Martxa Frias Karen Putt Julie Maund Kathleen Jackson Emily Broussard Sarah Stronczek Carol Gomez Shannon Heise Audrey Miller Stacy Curtis Meredith Binder Danielle DeMatteis Stacy Rovens Julie Kerr lara Becker Jennifer Mitchell Mary Clare Rourjaky Tricia Foster Amy Laws Stephanie Buck Anita Villa Tarae Hooper Judy Visner Allison Koenig Kathleen Fisher Betsy Ferstenberg 
M.C. Davenport Katie Caputo Allison Meagher Nicole Irvin Tina Lemker Beth Regan Sarah Reynolds Kathleen Beatty ssf Jeffrey Vanderwilt Benjamin Radcliff Jerry Meek Mark Moskowitz Dennis McCarthy linda Chalk 
WE ARE ALL 

A STATEMENT OF THE NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
We believe ... 
...the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's ...each member of the faculty, staff, and student regardless of ...the Administration's treatment of our community's the values and mission of a 

WE, THE UNDERSIGNED, CALL UPON OUR ADMINISTRATION TO EXTEND GLND 
Jean Powers  Neve Gordon  Megan Murphy  Sarah DaKin  
Nicole Hannon  Traci Dayhoff  Nancy Strzelecki  Tim Wallace  
Carol Jones  Peter McGarty  Candy Kim Alvarado  Tricia  Bruce Powers  
Jennifer Pendleton  Sean Maurer  O'Connor  Jennifer Burke  
Patrick R. Shane  Heather Schumacher  Julie Fetch  Deidre Mylod  
Daniel T. Guinn  Kelly Snavely  Nicole Nielsen  Mark Reuter  
Cross Moceri  Maureen Michiels  Katie O'Connor  Allison Barbeau  
Mark Varlotta  Chad Schiffle  Terl Vannoy  Thad Nation  
Bill Mansfield  Jama Lyman  Sarah Gillen  Stacy Kielbasa  
Michael Chiaravalotti  Missy Hyman  Kimberly Kurgan  Karin Guenther  
AbidYousuf  Cynthia Poulakidas  Leecia Anderson  Sophia Jordan  
Brad Prendergast  Amanda Ahlstrand  Isabel Wagner  Kelly Cusick  
Michael Hungeling  Jeanne Mcinerney  Meredith Dodge  Benjamin Panciera  
Kerri Carter  Jennifer Wright  Rachel Luke  Alan Smith  
Alahna Sedlock  Kristen Vogt  Mara Begley  Jack Rusina  
Carolyn Brady  Margaret M. Connor  Shane Kaniecki  B. Dominic  
Amita Mukerjce  Melanie Heitman  Megan Borchers  Dan Connoly  
Beth VanTiem  Katrina Wonnan  Heather Griffith  Anthony Limjuco  
Patricia Christensen  Gena Saracino  Sarah Sullivan  Doug McEachern  
Simone Barber  Bridget L. Withers  Macy Jane Zervos  Davld Sheppard  
Kim Michalik  Pike Thomas  Tricia Huey  Marisa Gallagher  
MylaAmold  Kristy Zloch  Holly Sullivan  Chris Daly  
Michelle Peterson  Chuck Walczak  Tiffany Raczynski  Anne Ripley  
Alia Paige  Gerard Lavin  Jennie Taubenheim  James Januisiak  
Lecolia A. Brogdon  Andrew Rausch  Naomi Unger  Rob Short  
Olga Robles  Stephen Susco  K.Karen Gerlach  Michelle Di Re  
Carla Rupert  Erin M. O'Malley  Melissa Thatcher  Ryan Dunea  
Ryan Doherty  Kim Massman  Kathleen Sobeck  Ronald Garcia  
Ellen Duggan  Adam Weiler  Christina Calhoun  Sarach Soja  
Bronwyn McAuliffe  Elisabeth Heard  Jennifer O'Dell  Meghan Scull  
Laura Smith  Scott M. Paradine  Jeanne Boyle  Joe Villinski  
Anne Werrlng  AmyChato  MariaHsin  Beth Ann Miller  
Carrie Koontz  Kathleen Artz  Therese Dundon  Ted Liebler  
Molly Schleeter  Amy Mertz  Katie Gorris  Jacqueline Cassette  
Diana M. Raffone  Sheila Doran  Catherine Anderson  Judith Robb  
Lindsey Friend  Sommer Peacock  Amy Crawford  Vinodh Jaichand  
Karen Mendlik  Meg Murphy  Macaire Carroll  Dan Saxon  
Jennifer Winnett  Jennifer Kelley  Amy DeBoer  Dante Negro  
Coleen Fitzsinlmons  Megan Kelly  Liberty Jones  Matias Ovalle  
Melanie Gann~n  Amy Mcintyre  Rebecca Moraris  Garth Meintjes  
Marla Orsagh  laura Schachtrup  Stephanie Sluka  Toomas Sillarte  
Racquel Mitchell  Sara Pluta  Sarah McGowan  Art Cody  
Jennifer Renee Nelson.  Jenn Cervantes  Tanya Lenko  LucReydams  
Nora Meany  Courtney Merriss  Jennifer Robison  Sabrina McCarthy  
Lori Allen  Kimberly Rivers  Molly Me laughlin  Erienne Mureiuit  

May 19,1995 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Page 17 
R. Shanley-Roberts  Santiago Wong  Gloria J. Masclcoutte  Janice O'Connel  Joseph Gress  
Mark Jordan  Ncbojsa Savic  Michelle Drury  Sean Geary  l'rtrr Buonaccorsl  
Nkolc G. Discenza  Jeff Olson  Susan Myers  Huong Mal  Patricia Gilbert  
Marsha Meulrman  Ed Adams  Ed Wingcnbach  A.M. DeLuca  Erika Quinn  
And rea Squatrito  Matt Garlock  Nicole Gothelf  Rose Saari  Hannah Dunn  
Lczllr Knox  Jlll Satanek  Robert Guerra  William Mertin  Marc Hlllygas  
Lls;J Wolverton  Jan Noethc  Anita Speech!  Mary Beth Lure  Kelly Cornelis  
Timothy Smith  David Angcllch  Erik Goldschmidt  Nicole Cook  Mary Ellen Sheehan  
Dt•borah Coombl  Jennifer Wicker  Annie Venesky  Dolores Frese  Janlne Cuneo  
Marla Munoz  Colleen Mllllgan  Chris Owen  Andrij Susla  Christl nc Pagen  
Matt Foley  Lisa Wallbridgc  Melissa Parent  Noha El-Ganzouri  Nicole Bohn  
Kara MrWllllams  T. Ramirez  Danlelle Slgale  Anne Delaney  Sarah Nerney  
Nanry Dunn  Marro Dlez  Eric Vanek  Andrea Borgatello  Mrgan Ry;m  
Meredith Pollrlnskl  Susan Bridgewater  Jessica Glllacc  Megan Nlewland  Chris Blanford  
Jessica Malom·y  Matt Fitzgerald  Amy Vlsnosky  Gla Giolino  Mldlael Fisher  
Matthew Rupp  Marlancla Gago  Julianne Gadc  Josef Evans  P.W. Zwiche  
lsabdlr Mltura  Chris Hartz  Elizabeth Mandllc  Sunlta Nijhawan  Tara Lynch  
Lynn Qut•nan  Norman Crowe  Isaac Duncan  Sean Wilson  Anne Evans  
Julia Barry  Mary Maloney  James Kennedy  Matt B. Steffen  John !Iosinski  
Marvi Thomas  David Garrick c.s.c  Terry Zlacik  Sharon Sumpter  Tiffany Thompson  
Laurie Gllbt·rt  John Donato, c.s.c.  Angie Moline  Sarah McGreevy  Angela W;llker  
Anthony Silva, Jr.  Regina Coli csj  Kim Saurer  Charles L1mb  Mark Fleldhaus  
1.1ura Considine  Ko1thy Rayer  Eugene Ulrich  Brian Riley  Ellir Carry  
Jrnnrttt• Mnnoz  Maxwell Gunnlll  Lisa Harrison  Margaret Pfeil  Ava Colllns  
Amy Jagodzinski  Kenneth Motolenlch  Arjan Uclzcr  Elizabeth Toohey  Robert Payne  
Maggi!' ton  Jane Oesterle  Tina Mitchell  Ingrid Scpahpur  Jeanne l'rtlt  
Carnlcc V!'lten  James O'Leary  David McMahon  Coleen Hoover  Joe Roos  
Mary Wt•lls  James Kohn  Heather Hughes  Beth Bland  Christine Haley  
Anthea Chnah  Emily Anderson  Josh Briggs  Kellie Porter  Jeff Shea  
Carol M;Jddt•n  Julit• McCarthy  Kevin Mallo!  Patricia Flynn  Juanna Gomez  
Bupt·rt Aguila  Angt•l Donovan  Meaghan Ciccarelli  Gregg Behr  Andrea Topash  
Andrew Hardie  Alex Gomez  Rachel Caidor  Cella Loughlin  Chris Lary  
Chris ktt·r  Margot Soballc  James Sterba  Dawn Novak  Mara McConville  
SranWt·tjt•n  Matt Kelleher  Jen Earls  Katie Glynn  Lydia Antonini  
Patrkk Murnwsky  l'rte teurhtmann  Leilani Pascale  Gall Mulllgan  Scan Dempsey  
Radll'l K.1Vangh  Paul Keller  Joseph Marchal  Rodrigo Vlllaronga  Amy Hartzler  
Melissa IIanna  Marcela McNeil  Matthew Healey  Stacy Fields  Tasha Blasi  
Andrew Pascale  Kim Horton  Garrett Hartman  Erica Samulsk  Sarah Craft  
Tony Blanchet Ruth  Julie Kettunen  Maura Kenny  Kate Dougherty  Becky Kellog  
Slwa Snlllvan  Jill Godmilow  Rahman Harris  James Cavendish  Lisa Fortman  
Rog1·r Koelsrh  Camllla Bassaly  Brian Carrico  Iris Outlaw  Jen Cherulrne  
Ian Hernandez  Maura Phcney  Eric Znarzy  Kevin Baumert  Kathleen Finke  
Stephen Lancaster  
ND/SMC.  Jennifer Mackowiak John l'tltter John Ryan Katie Clancy Heidi Fritz  
Felicia Johnson  

Jake Peters

COMMUNITY REGARDING DIVERSITY AND ACCEPTANCE Andy Vrnosa 
Aaron Smith Holly Barker Melissa Radey Lara Sweedo Jonathan Patrick

College are institutions strengthened by their diversity. 
Dennis McCarthy Molly L1jole 
Tracy Rottner Sara Guertin Margaret Chance 

body to be an essential part of the ND/SMC family, 
sexual orientation. 
Amalia Vlllafan Jcnn l'lcray

gay, lesbian, and bisexual members to be inconsistent with 
Katie Wiltrout Bethany Thomas

Catholic educational institution. Amy Williams 
Amy Majka Kate Gregory Clara Finneran Elizabeth Barr

SMC TilE SAME RIGHTS AND RECOGNITION AFFORDED OTHER STIJDENf GROUPS. Jennifer Weber 
Jennifer Gardner Jenlfer Roe Karen Rusche 

Jeremiah Sullivan Diana DIBernardlno Amy Vosburg Luke Anderson Trisha Garces Matthew Rechner Christine Vogel Vogt Andrew Hom Michelle Potter Mcghan O'Brien Laura Albright Robert Rafac David Dlaz Shannon Dunn Nicole M. Schuster Daniel Olson Kevin Blcse Brandl Rose Michael Kennett Meredith Knell Brl;m Kuzniar Larissa Herczeg Francis Kelly Andrew Casperson Aimee Terry Katit• Me laugh Dana Ormson Greg Van Grunsvon Bill Lavigne MldJele Vencl Robert Haight Paul Kovach Emily Davis Patricia Livingston Megan McGrath Clesson Turner Bridget McNassar Justin Mitchell Helen Galdos Michelle Ramos William Shmnan Elizabeth Ccndclla Jeffrey Montie Rcdempta Sweeney Roxanne Rodriguez Tony Garza David Condon Dan Druckcnbrod Thomas O'Brien Sheila Zachman Fl'llpt• Reynosa Elizabeth Trigg Stuart Nicolai J. Whelan Angela Coyle Andrew Noethe Andrew Runkle Anne Thompson Irene Dunn Elizabeth Murchison John Bland Owen McCuen Melissa Mapes Michael Nahas Marcy Dinius David Farias Jeremy Holland Jason Hanley Autumn Basinger Tejal Mehta Tom O'Brien Kate McShane Elizabeth Keefe Alsiha Eisert Rebecca Graybill Brldgt·t Green Wendy Klare Andrew Campbell Sheila Weigert Jenny Herbe Tom Kibelstis Susan Avila Nathan Ledbetter Sarah Tschacn Janice O'Connell Steve Van Hoof Adrian Duran Eric Giovanni Shelley Stefan Amy Tryner Jason Franken Mike Brett Paton Briget Riordan Art Grubert JoJo Pagana Brian Gaffud Kate Ferrucci Jennifer Weigel TomMatzzle Jennifer Rubow Jorge Galvan Leslie Howard Tom Rinehart Cath Byrne Katharine McShane Shannon Neely Ann Klenstra Rich Palermo Larissa Fast Maria Freiburger Shelby lllghsmith Matt Rechner Hillary Bomberger Sarah Ireton Kathleen Hillman Rob Finch Scott Fahey Ron Herman Aimee Walsh Christine Duffy Ed Dunnigan Scott Baler Denise Massa Carla Shannon Marla F. Pinto nmmas Ryan Steve Hrynlevlcz Francis Cloran Klra Lodge Sheila Samson Kristina Roberts Steve Sostak Jennifer Rezcli Lara Richards Jeanine Wynton Dan Murphy Pam Womer Martin Connel Betty Brother Cheryl Natale Matt Wallace Matt Towey John Blandford Kim Colvin Jennifer George Josh L!•Febun· Eileen Gordon A. Gonzalez Carol Stuart Nicole Berard Peter Sulllvan Paul Phillips A.K. Wisler John Gordon Debbie Clallolla Brendan Kelly EmilyHage Michele DePhilip Brian Bender Jennifer Porst Kelly Van Voris Allyson Luck Alyssa Donnelly Catherine Murphy Jennifer Michalec Mary D'Angello Matthew Wayncc Gloria Park Vincent Miller Elizabeth Menscl Tiffany Rubush Jocelyn Pogona Robert Durton James Lodwick Christine Shannon Ted Hennessy Pamela Ryan Gina Rucarado Amy Johnson Valerie Sena Aaron Summers Coleen Hoover Leslie Morrill John Welle Kaylee Lentine Jeff Sullivan Jennifer Yoran Francesca Blanco Amy Greene Klarlssa Garza Justin Core Kurt Mills Christy Kenny Julia Donthwalte Lucy Coughlin Nathan Young Kevin Glynn Bridget Magenis Maribeth Suprock Karen Carr Kyle Kusrk Evan Sockalosky Ashley Shannon Erika Effler Samantha Spencer Joe Marko Anne Marie Wolf Sara Wooden G. Reydams-Schils Alexandra J. Mensch David Dt•vine Benjl Hammond Emily Bloss Scott Schittl Debra Shapiro John Mellor Almer Garblson Rebecca Scudlero J.P. Cool than Julie Streb Juan Ylnh Nikole Neidlinger }ranine Wynton Karen Kapusnak Rene Mitsui 
VIEWPOINT 
page 18 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucas Managing Editor Business Manager Suzanne Fry Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager .......................Ryan Malayter Sports Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor .................................. Rob Finch Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Maty's College. It does not necessarily reflea the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objeaively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoin< Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Spons Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notte Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Friday, May 19, 1995 


'Plenty of sandwiches' prove important to survival 
Dear Editor: 
I was all alone, or so it felt. 
The only other breathing soul left in the room was my God, Evil, and the Absurd in Modern literature professor, who kept staring out the tiny, vacuum­sealed window while waiting for me to finish my exam. Dark clouds hung heav­ily in the deep, Madonna blue sky, graced at their powdery edges by a slight shade of gold sent forth from the traces of sunlight still shining forth from the west. There was merely the football stadium across the road. No trees sway­ing. No birds singing. 
He turned to address me from his reserved spot at the front, his face look­ing like two poached eggs run dripping from a soggy, recycled paper plate, and he said with a peppering of authority, "Five minutes." Then he returned his gaze to matters beyond the room, star­ing through the glass at God-knows­what. It escaped me. 
"Looks like rain," he added. I agreed. The air inside the room was dry. It smelled like paper and sweat and lead. I coughed and kept writing. 
After four years of school, I still hadn't learned how to finish an exam. Always the last one to leave, every time. My head was a sea of ideas and salty tboughts that broke like waves whenev­er I tried to claim one, none of which looked good soaking up a test booklet. I scratched and scribbled, clawed and grasped, but there was no luck. It felt like drowning. 
My answers accumulated to not even a dewy drop of sense, almost like some stream-of-consciousness. I thought about Joyce. He was Catholic. The test wasn't on Joyce, but O'Connor. She was Catholic too. The one cursed his religion, the other sung of its relentless grace. I hadn't been to church since I was a freshman. Didn't have the time. But I knew I'd go back someday. Just not right now. A few minutes passed in ner­vous silence. I thought about the ciga­rette I'd smoke if I ever got done. 
"Listen," he said without turning away 
from the glass. "Finish up and let's get 
outta here. I can't wait much longer." It sounded as if he weren't really talking to me, but rather was sharing an observa­tion, imparting a little knowledge, mak­ing me privy to one of his secret doubts and fears. Of course, that was my imagi­nation. Professors usually kept to them­selves at this school. So did the students. 
My time was up, so to speak, and I'd been denying that to myself ever since the last student had left before me. She was a girl in a tee-shirt and nylon run­ning pants. I thought she had a pretty face and a good figure and would look quite attractive come the evening. She'd go to the bars and maybe I'd see her. 
'They had both graduated 
from here. Depending on my grade on this test, I would be following in their footsteps.' 
We'd talk casually over cheap ale. We'd laugh. I'd make her privy to my secret doubts and fears. She'd leave with someone else. That's the way it worked. 
I remember the look she gave when passing my desk. Confident. Relieved. A senior who finished her last exam. Out of school for the first time since kinder­garden. Her eyes revealed a certain fact that eluded me, an answer that fit none of the above. To be honest, I wasn't too thrilled about school ending. It scared me like lightning in an open field. I was standing out in the middle of nowhere wearing aluminum foil underwear and holding a steel rod. Getting struck down would be a helluva way to go, I contem­plated, but not an entirely bad way. She would be at the bars tonight. I hoped she'd meet a good man. They'd get mar­ried. My thoughts turned to bourbon. 
"You're done." 
"I'm done?" 
"Give it up." 

I got up and held my test for a moment. A rush of oxygen drained from the brain and everything became a blur. The world swirled before me and I got dizzy and could barely keep standing and I heard his voice and then I didn't and maybe it was someone else's voice and what was the sound of my own? Vision was restored. Artificial light enveloped me. I wanted to get the living hell out of that room. It freaked me out for some reason. But school was over now. The professor took it from my hands and left. 
Wait a cotton-picking minute here! A stinking moment if you'll allow. I scrambled out the room, down the stairs, and caught the professor just before he hit the doors. 
"Er ... urn ... excuse me ... I got a ques­tion." 
He pivoted and paused. I stuttered something and made a gesture with my hands that must've made me look like an illiterate mime. "Take care now. Have a good summer," he said impa­tiently, brushing-off what must have seemed to be a rather clumsy attack. 
"No ... uh.. .l'm graduating. That was my last test. Or at least my last one here, which is to say that I'm not sure I'll be taking any more, or writing them. Or ... " 
"Well, good luck, son. I'm sure you'll do fine. What we all need now is more English majors out there in the world. I'm leaving now. Gotta pick-up the kids. Must go. Good day." 
"No, wait." I wondered if anyone had 
ever done this before. Maybe my father 
and the father before him. They had 
both graduated from here. Depending 
on my grade on this test, I would be fol­
lowing in their footsteps. I wasn't too 
sure that it gave me any pride or happi­
ness. That's just the way I felt at the 
moment. 
"Are you content?" I asked the profes­
sor, whom I noticed was wearing a fish­
ing cap that all semester I had secretly 
scoffed, but which I presently coveted as 
a fitting crown. "I mean, right now." 
"I don't like driving all the way out 
there, but someone's gotta do it. 
Certainly not their mother ... " 
"No, I'm serious. It may seem corny as 
hell, but I wanna know if you're con­
tent." 
GARRY TRUDEAU

• DOONESBIJRY 

He let out a resigned sigh and shifted the test booklets from his right to left arm, dipping two fingers into his breast pocket and retrieving from its depths a Lucky Strike. 
"Well. I don't know what you're really getting at, Gary." 
"Guy," I said. "My name is Guy." 
"Yes it is ... and you should probably know that I'm not at liberty to be your oracle, Guy. But if you're looking to squeeze the last dime of your education outta me right here, right now, then I'll tell ya something. To be honest, it's what a priest told me here about 33 years ago. I still can't figure it out, but why don't ya give it a shot." 
I told him I'd shoot. 
"Wherever you may go in life, make sure you always bring plenty of sand­wiches." 
Ya know what, after four years ya'd think, maybe ... just maybe ... oh, what's with all the bother? I stood at the door­way of my generation. and everything was a duck soup after all. The first pangs of hunger began to hit my stom­ach and I realized that I hadn't eaten all day. That was stupid. but there's a shabby, romantic quality to one's stupid­ity that hits a guy every now and then. When he gets over it, that's when every­thing starts becoming alright. 
The teacher asked me for a match. I 
replied by bumming a smoke from him. I 
struck it up and lit his first and then my 
own. The cigarette tasted bad but it felt 
good working its way into my system. 
We both stepped outside, inhaled a few 
private drags, and then blew out tran­
sient clouds of silver smoke. The rain 
had already begun to fall. You knew it 
would. 
The professor went running one way 
and I went another. 
GUY LORANGER 
Senior Off-campus 
Editor's Note: Guy Loranger is a grad­uating senior majoring in English. A former employee ofThe Observer his col­umn was titled, "It's a Dogma Eats Dogma World. " 
• Quon: OF THE DAY 
"Time is a train, makes the 
future the past. Leaves you standing in the station, your face pressed up against the glass." 
-U2, from 'Zoo Station' 

VIEWPOINT
Friday, May 19, 1995 page 19 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Not just another day at the races... 
Dear Editor: 
·The 121st running of the Kentucky Derby fell on the weekend before finals this school year. This provided the perfect opportunity for many seniors to begin their grad­uation celebrating somewhat early. Louisville is only about four hours away and the Derby is the most exciting two minutes in sports. 
I went down to Kentucky with several fellow seniors to see this year's race. And while Churchill Downs proved rather unimpressive and the mint juleps were overpriced and strong, the Derby race itself proved to be as exciting as its billing. Moreover, the Derby seemed to begin the reminiseing of college days which has taken place over the past few weeks. 
In faet, while driving back to South Bend from Louisville, everyone in our blue station wagon agreed that the Derby was a perfect analogy for our experience here at school over the past four years. 
We decided that the actual length of the Derby is the vital link connecting the horse race to four years at Notre Dame. Thunder Gulch, this year's winner, ran the mile and quarter race in just over two minutes. The track record is Secretariat's time of just under two minutes 
(1:59.4) in 1973. So while these two minutes are a signif­icant part of the day at Churchill Downs they are, in actu­ality, only a fraction of the time an average spectator spends at the track the day of the Derby. This past May 6 for example, there were a total of ten races the day of the IJerby. We saw eight races before we saw the Run for the Roses. We arrived at the track several hours before the 5 p.m. start of the Derby and stayed awhile after the race. 
Time spent at college is like the Derby in this regard; while there were many more races May 6 than just the Derby, so too are there events which have preceded our experience here at NO and events still to come. 
Yet with all the sentimentality that surrounds Commencement, it is easy to forget everything except for the four years which are now coming to a close. It is easy to isolate ourselves in our Notre Dame world and experi­ence. Just as it is easy to think only of the Derby race and not the other races, our Notre Dame experience dominates our lives right now. But while these four years have been a significant part of our lives, we all spent twice as long in grade school and just as long in high 
• DESIDERATA 
school. And now, most of us are going to make another commitment -to graduate school, to volunteer work, to beginning a career in a different place from that with which we have become familiar. 
All the same though, it is great to sit back and savor all that has happened over the past four years. Notre Dame may be the most exciting four years in most of our lives; time at college is certainly unique. Just as the Derby was an important horse race in many regards, our four years at ND have been significant. and exciting. In athletics, we've seen three bowl game wins, the senior-led basket­ball team beat Indiana this year, and my sophomore year bookstore team won two games. 
Campus has changed with the addition of DeBartolo and destruction of the Burke Memorial's back nine. Pangborn and Cavanaugh underwent sex changes and Grace is now slated for administration rather than stu­dents. 
But the most important changing and growing of the past four years is not that of the physical plant of Notre Dame. Rather it is how we have changed both individual­ly and collectively since we came to South Bend as fresh­men. It is how we have handled our time at Notre Dame which we will take with us. 
This is a bit like the Derby too -every horse that enters the race is different. All the jockeys wear different color silks to identify themselves. Timber Country's silks were different than Talkin Man's silks this year. And moreover, both horses ran the race differently. Both horses may not run in the same races in the future and even if they do, the horses will experience different tri­umphs and different failures. 
Commencement is a perfect opportunity to replay the experiences that have carried us this far and to prepare for the next race. Just like the Derby, our days at Notre Dame have come and gone before we even knew it. Two minutes -four years for that matter -passes quicker than you think. 
DAVE RING Senior Off-campus 

Editor of The Observer. 
O'Hara offers 
best wishes 
to graduates 
Dear Editor: 
I would like to take this opportunity to extend my prayers and best wishes to the members of the Class of 1995. Commencement is a time of many mixed emotions. Pride in your achieve­ments, excitement and apprehension about new beginnings, happiness and sadness come togeth­er as you prepare to leave. 
For those of you who are grad\mtlng seniors, I hope that we have achieved our goal of providing you with an education that integrates the life of the mind with the llfe of the heart. May your commitment to your faith in God and to service of His people match your dedication to your chosen vocation and profession. Notre Dame has high expectations of its graduates. The tremendous contribution that our alumni make to society and to the Church is a testament to the importance of these high expectations. 
For those of you leaving with graduate and pro­fessional degrees, I hope that you will carry with you the best of our traditions as they relate to your discipline. If you bring to your chosen field a strong set of ethical convictions and a commit­ment to justice, you will represent the very best of Notre Dame. 
Finally, a note of gratitude to all of you. You not only take from here; you also give. You have made a variety of contributions to your col· leagues. to the institution and to those of us who remain behind to assist students who will follow 
you.·.· 
May Our Lady, Notre Dame, continue to watch over you in the years ahead. We are blessed to have you as members of the Notre Dame family. 
. 

Editor's Note: Dave Ring is a graduating senior major­
PROFESSOR PATRICIA O'HARA

ing in English and French. He is a former Assistant News 
Vice President fur Student Affitirs 

Seven years at ND teaches valuable lessons of life 
As I write my last column of the year, I reflect on all I have experienced as a member of the Notre Dame community. Some times were bad, most were good _._ but the thing that strikes me the most about my years here is the vast range of experiences I have had and the valuable lessons I have learned from each one. 
When I entered Saint Mary's College as a freshman, I did not come with hordes of high school friends like many other girls had seemed to do. In fact, I didn't really have all that many high school friends. I was sort of indepen­dent, and honestly did not miss my for­mer classmates when I came to college. l wanted to start over, I guess. But in the course of that year, I learned just 

Kirsten Dunne 
h"ow important it was to have good friends. For the first time in my life I was away from my family, and naturally these were times I was down. I called my parents, of course, but those I grew close to at school, who were present then and there and often were feeling the same things that I was, played a major part in helping me make it through. My first year here taught me the importance of friendship, and I am, in fact, still close with several of the peo­ple I met as a freshman. 
During my second year, I partied a lot. Too much, I suppose, in retrospect, but I can't say I really regret it. I remember others on my floor studying until all hours of the night, having breakdowns over lights with boyfriends, and in some cases, letting their college experience pass them by. Now I admit that I have been diagnosed as having obsessive­compulsive disorder -indeed, I take medication for it -so I can relate to worrying, even over minor things. But you must avoid letting worries rule your life. I also admit that I am not quite as carefree as I was as a sophomore, and I suppose that's just natural. But when­ever I look back on that time, I realize that having fun is a necessary part of life, and I try not to take things so seri­ously. Life is for living. 
As a junior, I transferred to NO. I con­tinued to go out a lot, but my partying was catching up with me. I was often tired during the day, only to become an insomniac by night. I felt depressed often. I was plagued by nightmares. The only explanation I could come up with was that I was simply spending too much time out, and too late into the night. I didn't want to stop going out altogether; neither did I think that would be any healthier than the other extreme. But I began to go out less, devoting more time to simple rest and relaxation. My third year here taught me the importance of moderation. 
My senior year was not the reflective time that it is for many, because I more or Jess knew that I would return to Notre Dame for law school. It was, how­ever, a time when I spoke out and acted on my convictions extensively. I didn't have a column in The Observer yet, but I did write letters, and received much positive feedback from the ones that were published. When someone said something with which I did not agree, I said so. I listened to their points, if only to later figure out how to refute them, but I also let mine be known. Looking back, it was probably at this time that I began to realize that what I really want­ed to be more than anything was a writer. But the phrase that best cap­sulizes my senior year is probably this -"stand up for what you believe." 
The next time I returned to Notre Dame, things looked different. I was, no doubt, thrilled to be back, for many of my old friends were still here, and even had they all departed, I am sure it still would have just "felt right" to return after such a wonderful, fulfilling under­graduate experience. But it was my first year in law school. For those of you who have gone through law school, I 

It's Nearly timejor me to depart 
And leaue behin<lso much that's dear 
tomy~earf·•• ..••.···..... 
My frtendszsouthBertd; The Golden
Dome .; ·· ·· r iir 
The place that I sincerely call home. 
And although at present I'm full of 
sorrow 
I refuse to sacrifice my hopes for 
tomorrow •·. 
For I've learned there's some good in 
everything 
And while today I weep, I may later 
sing. . 
·Sofor nowl'llgo; but notforever 
The tie is too strongjor time to sever • 
An(ll ftndthat a smile is juxtaposed
with my teqrs; 
For 
in the end~ 1 kiww destiny perse­
veres. 
need not say more. For those of you who have not, it is, in short, a lot of work. For me, it was the first time I really felt pressured school-wise. Formerly I had done very little studying and always received top grades; now I worked more than I ever thought I could, and received average grades. But despite my grades, I felt good about myself because I felt I had really learned. It is not always the reward you get for what you do, I discovered, that makes you feel good; sometimes, it is that hard work it takes along the way. 
My second year in law school didn't follow a set pattern. First semester I went out a lot; I felt free. Second semes­ter I had a hard course load, and didn't feel quite as free. I worked a lot. Sometimes I got depressed, because I felt like I should have more social time now that first year was over. But it took a lot of work, so I put in the hours. This and other more personal aspects of my second year in law school indicate that devotion was the primary lesson of last year. If you love something or someone, you give you all. Sometimes that isn't so taxing, as the first semester of last year illustrates. Other times, like the second semester, it involves a lot of energy. But if you want to reach your goal badly enough, you will go that extra mile. I did so, and although it was hard some­times, I don't believe I could have done otherwise, for I had learned and internalized the concept of devotion. 
This year , I thought I'd be way too sentimental about everything. I wasn't, because I never even wanted to believe it would end. Therefore, events like my last October Break or my last work shift didn't put me into crying fits, because I blocked out of my mind the fact that I was leaving. 
Now that I can't do that anymore, I have become quite the nostalgic gradu­ate. It has finally dawned on me that change is inevitable. At the same time, though, I have looked for some good in the situation, and have actually found some. The fact that I'll be able to pay off loans and credit cards by earning money is one idea I can't say I dislike. Nor is the fact that, by getting real­world experience, I will be more desir­able as a teacher and a writer and thus will be able to return to an academic setting {hopefully here) in the not-so-dis­tant future. I could be simply trying to make myself feel better by thinking up reasons why graduation might be good, but I believe it's more than that. I think I have realized that change, much as I usually dislike it. is sometimes good. 
Unlike many of my fellow graduates, I am sad to have closed another chapter in my life. But one theme has pervaded all seven of my years here. Every time I have felt sad or depressed, I have al­ways found something good about a sit­uation, no matter how trivial, to pull me through. And I often realized in later contemplation that these emotions, although negative in themselves, had contributed somehow to my person in a positive way by making me stronger or bringing me closer to my loved ones. In all seemingly negative things, then, I have found something positive. 
I have to believe that this will continue to be true, and that everything will work out line. 
Kirsten Dunne, ND Class of '92, is a graduating law school student. 

:ACCENT
page 20 Friday, May 19, 1995 

• ACCENT ASKS ••• 
What do you remember most about your time here in South Bend? 
'Freshman Orientation definitely ... doing all the activities they planned for us.•. iust going into my dorm for the first time.' 


Sarah Ireton Columbus, OH 
'The Navy game fresh­man year. It was so cold and I couldn't feel my legs for hours after­wards.' 


Anna Ursano Washington D.C. 



'Having my dorm closed freshman year­Pangborn.' 
Sam Rauch Ann Arbor, Ml 

'Before the Florida State game last year, a couple of guys and I painted IRISH on our chests and stood up on top of an RV in the parking lot. Everyone cheered and took pictures.' 


Brennan McDonald Fort Wright, Kentucky 
'I transferred in iunior year and finally got on campus senior year. GeHing to know the girls in my dorm has really made me feel like a part of the Notre Dame family.' 


Carrie Connaughton South Bend, IN 
'All the people I've met and the friends I've made.' 
Dirk Bedford Milledgeville, GA 


Photos The Observer/ Michelle DiRe 
One student proves that it's 
By KRISTA NANNERY 
Accent Editor 
W
ould you travel a total of over 150,000 miles in order to obtain a degree from The University of Notre Dame? Executive MBA candidate Robert Findling would, and he did. 
Born in Ludington, Michigan, Findling fell ~n love with Notre Dame during football seasons m high school. Financial reasons kept him. fro?I attending NO after his high school graduatiOn m 1955. Instead, he went on to earn a degree in Economics from St. Joseph's Rensselaer, Indiana in 1959, supporting himself by working the car ferries across Lake Michigan between Ludington and Milwaukee. He settled in St. Joe, Michigan so he could be closer to Our Lady. He knew with­out a doubt that someday he'd call the land of the Fighting Irish home. 
40 years later and Bob Findling, better known as 'San Diego Bob,' is fulfilling his lifelong dream and graduating from The University of ~otre Dame with an Executive Masters of Busmess Administration. First offered in 1982, Notre Dame's Executive MBA program is aimed towards professionals who already have experi­ence in the business world in addition to their undergraduate degree. It allots students the opportunity for further future career advance­ment. An EMBA degree helps one hone skills that can help their company's present status in the real world of business contracts, planning and negotiations. . 
If it's experience they're looking for, San Diego 
Bob definitely has it. Since 1960, Findling has 
been employed as a commercial realtor. In 
1979 he moved his base of operations to San 
Dieg~. California. His location makes him not 
only the farthest-commuting member of the 
1995 Executive MBA class, but the farthest­
commuting candidate the EMBA program has 
ever had. 
Because EMBA classes have been meeting 
almost every other weekend this year, Bob has 
accumulated an awful lot of frequent flier miles. 
Over 150,000, in fact. It has even gotten to the 
point where the United Airline gaye atte?dants i~ 
San Diego and South Bend know San Diego Bob 
on sight. . 
The journey has been eventful at times. 
Findling's been stuck in Chicago's O'H~re 
Airport and fogged into South Bend an occasiOn 
or two. He was even diverted to Denver for one 
five day stretch. He never did make it to cam­
pus. By the time it was safe to fly on to South 
Bend, classes were over and it was time to go 
home. 
Because he was coming so far at such a price, 
Arnie Ludwig, Assistant Dean and Director of 
Executive Programs, questioned Findling thor­
oughly before he joined the program. "[Ludwig] 
didn't want me to commit myself for the wrong 
reasons or do anything I might regret. He was 
very open. He always supported me 100%," 
Findling said. 
All in all, everyone San Diego Bob meets here 
at Notre Dame has been overwhelmingly sup­
portive. Findling notes, "The staff and profes­
sors, the students, everyone has gone out of their 
way to help me get through. In _a way, _I think 
they felt like they were teachmg their own 
dads ... They've been very protective of me." 
Rita Gong, the Executive MBA program secre­
tary, says of Findling, "Bob is uniq.ue, he's an 
individual and a real 'Notre Darner. He would 
have to be to travel as far as he does. Our home 
here is his home away from home.'' 
In fact, he has made such an impact on the 

community that the Signature Inn, a local hotel 
in South Bend, has made sure that his home 
away from home has everything he needs. They 
set aside a room for him as well as a study area 
for his study group where they can meet and 
cram for exams. The Inn picks him up and 
drops him off at the airport and al_ways mak~s 
sure that they send him cards durmg the hob­
days. The staff at the Signature Inn sums up 
Bob in one word, "Awesome!" 
was n 
1993 that San 
Diego Bob decid­
ed that the time 
was right to apply 
to Notre Dame. "My wife of 36 years, Sandy, told me to 'do it now' and she understood and approved," Findling said. His three children, two of which are NO grads, have been equally supportive. In fact, they have just as much pride in him as he has in them. 
This semester, Bob is taking International Business, Strategy, Investments, and Ethics. Four classes a semester is the norm for all EMBA candidates and if his GPA is any in­dication, Bob is doing pretty well. That's proba­bly because he uses his_ time ~o wiselr He explains that he reads Ethics durmg the fhght to South Bend and Investments on the way back to San Diego. . . 
Findling notes that his expenence, combme_d with the experience of his fellow classmates, IS what makes the program so enriching. Findling says, "There are times when, especially in some classes, we can say, 'Wait, that's not real. I:ve tried that and it doesn't work.' because we ve all been in business a long time.'' 
The study group format is conducive to such classroom contributions. Study groups are made up of four or five students from different areas of the country and different areas of expertise. For example, San Diego Bob's fellow group me~bers are from Detroit, Manhattan, Indianapolis and Rockford, Illinois. Some of them have engineer­ing backgrounds, something Bob finds helpful. "I've had a lot of trouble with the engineering and math based courses. A lot of the classes are production oriented ... My study group has been really helpful in these areas." 
This Sunday. Robert Findling fulfills a life long dream, a dream that makes him, in his own words, "the embodiment of Rudy without the football dimension." But he notes that at Notre Dame, and especially within the Executive MBA program, almost everyone's a "Rudy" and out 
torealize~a~d~r~ea~m~·~~~--~~--~~~~ 

there ·are about 80 students participating in 
·the program. According to Barry Van Pyck. Associate Director of Executive Programs, most students have some formal college expe­rience and are looking to truly understand how things in the business world function. Mr. Van Dyck. a 1986 graduate of the program, describes it as a "life changing experience.' 
Entrance into the program is described as "very competitive." Classes meet on Fridays and Saturdays every other week and students are expected to carry twelve credit hours a semester. The program lasts two years. 
Students often work on projects in study groups composed of EMBA candidates from a balanced variety of backgrounds and geo­graphical areas. The office will help out of town students fmd suitable accommodations to cam:pus for weekend classes. Mr. Van that students must possess a great · · in order to balance school, For more information, n""'"l.l.l.•lV"' Programs office by their office in 

;ACCE-NT
Friday, May 19, 1995 page 21 
The Other Side of Europe 

~!ce~~~~~ NANNERY 
E 
xclamation points aside, Let's Party! Europe is the insider's guide of all insider guides. Simply put, it's a partiers paradise for those planning on being on the other side of the big blue pond this summer. See, there are only so many ABC (Another Bloody Cathedral) tours you can go on before everything starts to look the same. Even the most serious traveler needs to relax and unwind after a hard day of camera toting and map reading. 
That's where Let's Party! comes in. It's one big entertainment section. Forget the museums, forget the walking tours. In the words of authors Sam Khedr and Mark Maxam (along with Jessica Fernandes and Kim Soenen), "Remember, Europe is a fun place ... full of diversity and color ... and has and additional bonus: It's Real! If that's not what you wanted, you'd be bet­ter off checkin' out the 'European' sights at Disney's Epcot Center" (page 5). They couldn't be more right. 
Let's Party! covers Europe from Lisbon, Portugal in the west to Budapest, Hungary in the east. It goes as far north as Glasgow and Copenhagen and as far south as Athens and Granada. On the way, the au­thors tell you what drinks to order, what food to eat and of course, where to party. In almost every city covered, they've gone out of their way to lind an Irish pub or two where you're guaranteed to lind Guinness and English-speaking people. To help pass time in train stations and museum lines, 18 travel riddles of the "A man is found dead in the middle of the desert. Why?" variety are sprinkled throughout the text. There's even a book of coupons in the back. Most of them are for free drinks and free admission to various clubs and pubs. Sam and Mark call it the Party Passport. 
Amsterdam and Munich are perhaps two of the best chapters. Let's Party's take on Oktoberfest is word­for-word accurate. Great call on the Hotel Kurpfalz; it's right around the corner from the festivities. Included in this chapter are the words to popular German drinking songs and directions on how to 
This Summer in Europe 
Austria 

•Salzburg: Salzburger Festspiele (Summer Music Festivals) Late July until early September. 
•lnnsbruck: Festival of Early Music during July and August. 16th century music concerts at ScholoB Ambras and Hofkirche every Tuesday evening at 8 p.m. Belgium 
•Brussels: 
Bruzzle Festival in early July presents a wide variety of music at different locations around the city. 

•Ghent: Gentse Feesten is Ghent's most popular festival held d!Jring the last week of July. It offers live bands, cheap food, and plenty of beer. France 

•Nice: 
La Grande Parade du Jazz is in mid-July at the Pare et Arenas de Cimiez. 

•Cannes 
International Film Festival starts mid-May. 

•Monaco 
Grand Prix during the last week of May. 

•Bastille 
Day is July 14. 


Germany 

•Berlin: 
Sommer Festspiel offers all types of music from punk to folk and happens every Saturday night in August. 

•Munich: Oktoberfestl A month of beer and more beer. September 16 -October 1. Ireland 

•Dublin: 
Bloomsday on June 16 celebrates James Joyce and his masterpiece Ulysses. 

•Glasgow: 
Mayfest is a three week cornucopia of entertainment. 

•Cork: 
Guinness Jazz Festival at the end of October 


Scandinavia 

•Summer Solstice is celebrated throughout Scandinavia on June 23 and June 24, the longest days of the year. 
Denmark 

•Copenhagen: Ten straight days of jazz beginning in mid-July 
Switzerland 

•Bern: 
For jazz fans, the International Jazz Fest comes to Bern in May. 

•Geneva: 
Celebrating the first week of August, the Fetes de Geneve is three days of boat shows, fire works, art and music. 

•Montreux 
Jazz Festival begins the first Monday in July and lasts two weeks. 


England 

•Catch 
Wimbledon during late June and early July . 

•At 
the very end of May, Oxford University celebrates the month in a festival called Eight Weeks. 


Spain 

•Pamplona: Run with the bulls in Los Sanfermines during the first week of July. 
Italy 

•Florence: 
Maggio Musicale Fiorentino is an international music festival that takes place in May and June. 

•Rome: 
The Festa dei Noantri is held in late July for 1 0 days on Viale Trastevere. 


Czech Republic 
•The Prague Spring Festival begins in mid-May and presents musicians from all over the world. 
sneak into the Hippodrome, the only beer tent open after 11 p.m (Go for the side door). 
The authors are amazingly blunt about Athens. with good reason. To quote them directly, "Athens thor­oughly, entirely, and, just to make the p.oint, com­pletely fails as a user-friendly city ... As far as we're concerned, there's only one way to 'do' Athens, and that's to avoid it completely" (page 43). 
The first time traveler should be advised that Let's Party! is not the he-all and end-all of travel guides. It serves it's purpose, but as far as the real sights go, you might want to check out books like Let's Go Europe, Europe Through the Back Door, Fodor's or The Lonely Planet series. It's great when it comes down to travel advice regarding tourist scams and grain alcohol in your drinks. But essential travel info like hotels and hostels is not included unless there is something really special about them. ("Accommodations? We're a party guide, lind your own accommodations." ) Let's Party! does give the address, telephone number, hours of operation and directions to each city's tourist office. If you don't have a great street map of the city you're in, get one now because Let's Party! is just not going to help you here, folks. 
For the grammatically conscious, the multiple excla­mation points, italics and parenthetical statements just might drive you crazy. At one point, I think they even call themselves "your oracle of superlatives." The informal tone is definitely reader friendly and lends itself to reading out loud, but sometimes it's like Wayne's World 2 all over again. 
All this is pretty inconsequential though because Let's Party! Europe is a fantastic book. It's ground­breaking. Amazing. Fun. Flirtatious. These guys have "Been there. Done that." They're good and they know what they're talking about. Trust them. They know the places to see and be seen. Don't rely on it for your sightseeing stuff, but when the sun goes down, Let's Party! is the book to take out. To quote the back cover, "If you want to be a 'spectator of his­tory,' go visit a museum. But if you want to make some history of your own. get out there and party!" 


... 
-
The Obsarver/ Tom Roland 
Information courtesy Christy Kenny 


ACCENT 
If walls could talk 
Saint Mary's Augusta Hall to close doors to last group of students 
By ANGIE KELVER 
Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
T
his weekend is a time of joy, new begin­nings and inevitably, goodbyes. For every graduating senior, the list of farewells is long, varied and bittersweet. A,.t Saint M.ary's, there are 64 seniors wh~ sh~re at least one name in common on theu hst: Augusta Hall. Not only do the seniors haye. to say goodbye to their unique on-campus hvmg experience, but all of Saint Mary's College must do the same as Augusta closes its doors to stu­dents for good after the Class of 1995 leaves its walls to face the world. 
The dorm, which has been in existence since 1893, will be returned to the Sisters of the Holy Cross for renovations which will begin this year. These renovations are needed to convert the dormitory into a retirement home for Sisters from all over the country. The tradition of Augusta as a senior, self-governing dormitory, in place for the past 21 years, is coming to a close. 
Augusta originally housed novitiates. Students, along with their resident advisors, first moved into the dormitory in 1970. In September 197 4, a new "experiment" was introduced. Augusta Hall became a self-governing dormitory, setting its own guidelines and rules within the confines of state law. Now, in 1995, with minor changes and 21 years under its belt, Augusta is saying goodbye to its last group of students. 
This year's residents of Augusta are glad to have been a part of the experience but sad to see tH.e tradition come to an end. Members of the Class of 1995 will miss Augusta's strong sense of community and the overall spirit of the dorm. 
Saint Mary's senior Ellen Chiu has thoroughly enjoyed her stay in Augusta. "Our hallway really bonded. We have always known each other but we never really got the chance to become good friends until we all lived together." 
Deb Sheedy, one of two Resident Advisors in Augusta, also enjoyed .,the chance. to be.co11_1e clos­
... 
er with classmates. At a certam pomt m your college career you fall into a routine. It's nice to be able to have the chance to get to meet a lot of seniors you didn't know." . . 
This sentiment is also shared by Chnstma Byrd, Augusta's other ~esident Advi~or. "My time here has been a mce farewell. I m glad I got to end my time at Saint Mary's with my clas~­mates. There is a definite sense of camaradene among us." 
The closeness between the residents of Augusta has a lot to do with similar experiences 
that they share during the ups and downs of their senior year. 
-
Sheedy explains, "As seniors our schedules are very demanding. In Augusta, we have student t~achers, ·nursing majors, and women doing internships who are all on the go at different hours. We are pretty active here, twenty four hours a day." 
When the stress of resumes, senior comps, and graduate school applications gets to be. too much, these seniors have not had to look far m order to find a sympathetic ear. . . 
Byrd stated, "This type of enVIronment IS nec­essary for your senior year. It is important to have someone to share the rejections and accep­tances with." 
Chiu agrees, "In an all-senior dorm everyo!le:s doing the same things. We all stress about simi­lar situations." 
Another important aspect of living in Augusta is the freedom that this setting has provided for its residents. The same rules apply in Augusta as in other resident halls, but the lack of a front desk inspires a more independent atmosphere. 
Colette Shaw, the Resident Director of Augusta, explains, "They are basically responsible for gov­erning themselves." This type of tru~t and sense of independence is important to semors prepar­ing to face the "real world" after graduation. When faced with the choice of moving off-cam­pus senior year, students often find themselves with a tough decision. Augusta has been an option for seniors who wanted that freedom but still wished to participate actively on campus. 
Senior Julie Campbell, a resident of Augusta, stated, "Living in Augusta was kind of like living in an apartment. I didn't consider living off-cam­pus because I had Augusta as an option." . 
Sheedy explains, "Seniors want to test their independence. In Augusta, no one watches us come and go at all hours. Saint Mary's has to consider that the seniors want choices." 
The closing of Augusta to Saint Mary's students does pose the question: what options do the incoming seniors have? The fourth flo.or of H?ly Cross Hall has been designated the semor sectiOn for the Class of 1996. The sense of community is still present there, but many of this yea~·s seniors feel that they would not be happy with this choice for themselves. 
Chiu said, "I do not think the Holy Cr~ss Hall 
idea is going to work out. Augusta IS very 
unique, being a separate dorm. I don't think the 
same environment will be able to be created 
somewhere else." 
With the Class of 1996 preparing to start a new 
tradition, this year's seniors are closing the book 
on life in Augusta Hall. All of these seniors agree 
that this unique living environment has been a 
very positive experience for them. Others say 
the same, noting that these 64 girls that have 
been a large part of Augusta's success this year. 
Shaw said, "It's going to be sad to see them go. 
They are the last class to live here. It's like a 
whole legacy is ending." . . 
As these seniors go off to start their hves out­
side Saint Mary's, soon the painters, plumbe~s 
and electricians will be setting up shop m 
Augusta, preparing it for the conversion to 
retirement home. But it is certain that the 
laughter and memories that have been such a 
fundamental part of Augusta Hall's contribution 
to Saint Mary's life will always remain there. It 
would be interesting if only the walls could talk. 
Friday, May 19, 1995 
now that you've graduated? 
'I'll be in the Navy. I'm going to flight school in Athens, Georgia.' 
Kevin Schmitt Yorktown, PA 
'I don't have any because 
medical school doesn't 
like me. So I have a sum­
mer iob.' 
Kevin McAward Bedford Hills, NY 

'I'm working with the Jesuit Volunteer Corps in SeaHie. I'm going to be a youth coordinator at a family homeless shelter.' 
Rebecca Pinkley Amory,MS 
'I'm moving to SeaHie. I have no iob. I have no life.' 
Laurie MacKenzie Philidelphia, PA 

'I will be living in a house in South Bend with three guys. I'll be working at an elemen­tary school in Granger.' 
Michelle Tragar Ottawa, IL 
'Unemployment.' 
Paul Voelker 
Indiana, PA 
Photos The Observer/ Michelle DiRe 


Friday, May 19, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 23 
• COLLEGE fOOTBAll 
Bowl game overtimes installed by NCAA 
Storms brewin' in 
.;;;;4( 
Hurricane land 
, . . .. ·\:··:~:iif%i;~\\:O::.Ameiltted 1,'(~ 
MIAMI 
In a litany of lawlessness, the Miami Hurricanes' foot­ball program was marked by guns, sexual assault, drugs, drinking and clashes with polic~. The Miami Herald repor~ed Thursday. 
Allegations of lax discipline surfaced earlier in the form of a Pell Grant scandal, a pay­for-play scheme and an inconsistent drug-testing poli­cy. T)le latest disclosures could further tarnish the 63-9 reQprtJ. compiled by coach Penu}s ~rickson before he left ln Jaf\uary to coach the SeatUe Seahawks. 
The Herald's story stemmed from interviews with more than 50 current and former athletic officials, players and others close to the team, and spanned Erickson's six-year tenure. the findings included: 
-Sexual misconduct: Women were humiliated and sometimes assaulted in the football dormitories, accord· ing to police officers, players, wives and girlfriends. One former student told the paper she was assaulted by several players in 1990, and Erickson talked her out of going to the police. 
-Violence: Campus police claim Erickson was called repeatedly to the athletic dorm to control players dur­ing late-night fights. 
Former Hurricanes defen­sive back Charles Pharms said he and several players owned guns. 

By DOUG TUCKER 
Associated Press 
Fans and players and television sponsors are sure to love it. At least one former Orange Bowl MVP, however, wonders about the wisdom of the NCAA's new tie-breaking system for postseason football games. 
"Do we really have to declare a clear-cut win­ner every time?" said Prentice Gautt, associate commissioner of the Big Eight. "That seems to be tfie trend." 
Beginning next season, every bowl will be required to put in the same tie-breaking system lower-division schools use in their playoffs. 
If the score is tied at the end of regulation, the game clock is turned off. a coin is tossed and the teams begin an overtime period. 
The ball is placed at the opponent's 25-yard line and the teams keep playing until the tie is broken after both have had possession. 
The NCAA's special events committee, acting on a recommendation by the football rules com­mittee, decided this week to require all bowls to use the overtime tie-breaking system, which lower divisions already use in NCAA playoff games. 
"I like it a lot," Oklahoma athletic director 
Donnie Duncan said. "It will add a lot of ex­citement." As a running back and MVP of the 1960 Orange Bowl, Gautt would have loved it. 
"But now I'm a 57 -year-old and I've got mixed emotions," he said. "The players, especially the aggressive ones, will love it. Fans will certainly love it. 
"But you see games where two evenly matched teams play their hearts out and give everything they have and end up in a tie. At times like that, you might think neither team deserves to go away a loser. Let's pat all the coaches and play­ers on the back and say congratulations for a ter­rific game. 
"That's the other side to it. But when I was 21, I wouldn't have seen the other side. From the players' perspective, especially the ones who instinctively want the ball in their hands when the game is being won or lost, they'lllove it." 
The football rules committee decided in February to let the tiebreaker be optional for bowls. The higher-ranking special events com­mittee took it a step further and made it manda­tory. The NCAA staff, deciding the rule change does not involve image, finances or safety con­cerns, let the decision become official without passing it up the chain as it normally would. 
Classifieds 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. 10 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. 10 3 p.m. at309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

DO YOU HAVE ANY TODDLER  Room for rent -Summer Session ­ I WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR FOR  Prayer To The Blessed Virgin  
NOTICES  RIDING TOYS THAT YOU'RE NOT GOING TO USE? IF YOU WANT  Winding Brook $325/mo. wid & kitchen prlveleges 255·9005  ANY NUMBER OF NO vs. WASH· INGTON FOOTBALL TICKETS ON  (never known to fail) Oh. most beautiful flower of Mt.  IF YOU OR ANYONE YOU KNOW NEEDS A RIDE FROM  
TO GET RID OF THEM. PLEASE  OCT. 7, 1995 IN SEATTLE.  Carmel, fruit vine splendor of  LONG ISLAND  
$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS$$  CALL SHIRLEY AT 272-3753.  Wanted: 2 people to sublet an  PLEASE CALL 206-782·4663.  Heaven. Blessed Mother of the  TO SUMMER SCHOOL  
Are you going to read those things  incredible apartment near down·  HELP!! TICKETS ARE HARD TO  Son of God, Immaculate Virgin,  AROUND JUNE 18TH OR SO  
again? I think not. 2323-2342  Please help me, I am desperate  town for the summer. We  PURCHASE IN SEATTLE.  assist me in my necessitites. Oh.  CALL KRIST A 634-3950  
Pandora's Bks NO Ave & Howard  lor extra graduation tickets lor my  could also use a fourth roommate  Star of the Sea, Help me and show  OR AT 516-781-6244  
Grandparents! Will pay good $$1  for the 1995·96 academic year.  Irish Grandparents need tickets for  me herein you are my Mother.  
ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAK·  Call Jose' at 4·3564.  Call Ryan or Chad at 634-1036  graduation. Please call Carolyn at  Queen of Heaven and earth. I  
FAST. 35 MIN TO N.D. SPECIAL  for details.  271-7895.  humbly beseech you from the bot­ 
"OBSERVER" RATE $50/$60,  SENIORS: Living in Chicago next  tom of my heart. to succor me in my  DEE DEE  
FULL BREAKFAST. THE HOME· SPUN COUNTRY INN. NAPPA·  fall? Looking lor roommate(s)? Call Tamara Lyzinski 282·1475 or  FOR SALE  HELPI Need 1 or 2 tickets to graduation. Please Call Wayne  necessity (make req). There are none that can withstand your  REMEMBER POTSDAM CONGRATULA TIONSIII  
NEE. 219·n3·2034.  Carl Nicpon 4-1206.  @634·4325$  power. Oh. Mary conceived without  Here's to a summer of hanging out  
ILOST & FOUND I ._I_F_o_R_RE_N_T_......~  OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered at $85,900. First floor location. Finished basement with lull lavale·  PERSONAL  sin. pray for us who have recourse to thee. Sweet Mother. I place this cause in your hands. (3 times).  in our business suits picking up yuppies in South Street Seaport Love. Krista  
ry. Two bedrooms and two baths on  Say this for 3 consecutive days and  
Silver and Brass Bracelet between  FURNISHED ROOM. AIR,  ground level. Lease back to owner  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  publish. MW  
Debart and NOH. Not worth a lot,  KITCHEN, PHONE, 3 MIN. N. OF  through May. 1995. Call  LaFortune Student Center  
just got it In Mexico. so I want it  CAMPUS. 272-0615.  (616)946-0700.  ,J Quick turn around time!! I  Hey Pat. Tom, Chris. Wally, Jean,  
back! If found. call Janina -1412  ,J Most orders completed  Top 5 quotes from the Fugitive:  Tom. Mary. Joan. Jimmy. Jay.  
Furnished. 2-bdrm home. 1013  Oakhill Condos.  within 24 hours  5. "Think me up a cup of coffee  Salsey and Tommy!  
FOUND BY STEPAN COURTS ·  Cedar St. $450/mo. + utilities.  3·1evels wllower wlkout. 3 BAS.  ,J Free pick-up & delivery  and a chocolate donut with some of  WELCOME TO NOll!  
MAN'S CLASS RING. CALL CHRIS  Lease & deposit. 273-0860.  3 Baths -$99.900  to & from departments  those little sprinkles on top as long  I"m lucky to have all of you. Thanks  
2n·5717 & IDENTIFY.  2 Brs, 2 Baths, spiral staircase &  'i Caii631-COPY  as you're thinking."  for coming. With love.  
1722 E Edison. 5 Bedrooms. Must  garage -$78,500  4. "Copeland...be good"  J.R.  
LOST · Silver and green cross  be family. June 15 Occupancy.  Each unit includes: fireplace. appli­ @#$@#$@#$@#$@#$@#$@#$  3. "Henry, Dr. Nichols lied to me.  
necklace at Senior party at  Karen 291·9011.  ances. pool & clubhouse  This is a special THANKYOU to all  Go find him."  To  
Heartland. ENORMOUS.  Coldwell Banker 2n·8000  of those people who are graduating  2. "I've been with over 20 women.  Felicia Johnson  
TREMENDOUS sentimental value!  COTTAGE NEAR NOTRE DAME  Ruth Ann Smith 235·3250  that have been an integral part of  so I know what I'm doing."  and  
If found please call Megan at 4857  FOR GRADUATION WEEKEND.  the GAY and LESBIAN community.  1. "My. my. my. my. my. what a  Katie Barton  
or at home (916) 443-0533 after  PHONE & CABLE. 272·1968.  Moving off campus? Need some  The work that you have done  mess!"  Good Luck and God Speed!  
Saturday.  PLEASE HELP!  furniture? We have it.  whether it be on e-mail. at rallies, or  Thanks for everything Bethany.  Love.  
SUBLET OUR APARTMENT FOR  FOR SALE:  at support meetings really made a  Don't let any one-armed men get  your NDE small group  
WANTED  THE SUMMER! 2 Bedroom apt with hardwood  Coach· $25 Dresser-$25  difference. Remember to Smile and Be Proud!  you in the real world!  
floors. high ceilings, located 5 min  Single size bed (new) · $45  @#$@#$@#$@#$@#$@#$@#$  (Oh, no. for the love of god not....)  Ann Blum & Steve Chavez:  
AA CRUISE SHIPS HIRING! EARN  from campus in quiet. historic  Desk-$45  THE LUNCH BUNCH LIST OF  THANK YOU for all you've done  
BIG$$$+ FREE WORLD TRAVEL  neighborhood. $375 fully furnished.  Chair& Ottoman • Negot.  QUOTES  for The Observer!  
(CARIBBEAN. EUROPE. HAWAII,  Call Kathy or Colleen @ 273-5914  Call 271·0226.  KELLY  Do you reject the glamour of evil?  You will be missed :)  
ETC.) SUMMER/PERMANENT. NO  KELLY  Hell. nol  Love.  Ads  
EXPER. NEC. GUIDE. (919)929­ SUMMER RENTAL. NEAR CAM·  HOME FOR SALE. 2 BDRMS  KELLY  Is that your fantasy man. Zwilling?  
4398 ext. C1082  PUS. ROOMS OR ENTIRE HOME.  NEAR CAMPUS. 2 LOTS. PRICED  KELLY  You know. the only bad thing about  Casper:  
272·6306  TO SELL.$29,900. GILLIS REAL TV  I WILL MISS MY KELLY.  lunch bunch is that I can'tlook at  Are those my sandles or are you  
COUNSELORS WANTED for  272-6306,232-1466  Matt Coles without laughing.  just excited to see me? The dance  
Kwiwanis Twin Lakes Camp located  HOMES NEAR CAMPUS FOR  TO SUSIE "CHAPSTICK" LAATZ ...  Wow. where did you learn to kiss  was a blast, the rest even better.  
in Plymounth. Ind. This Is a sum­ NEXT FALL. 272·6306  BIKE & DRYER.272-6306  Congratulations • best of luck in  like that?  Congratsll  
mer camp for physically and men­ Alaska, Rome, and always. We've  I'm joining the seminary.  PS: Wanna build a boat???????  
tally handicapped children and  House for sale by owner  become friends in six weeks • let's  I hooked up for 90 mlnutesl  
young adults. Most campers are  Clean. safe student apts. lor sum·  5 bedrooms. 2 lull baths. move-in  keep it up! Have a great time, keep  Chad Christopherson is a snappy  TOM& DAVE:  
age 7 thru 21. but we have lifted the  mer or fall.  condition. 6 blocks from campus.  it clean and legal. and have a gin  dresser and he keeps himself  Thanx a million for helping usll  
age limit. The campers are from  Furnished studio. $230  519 E. Corby, $26.900  and tonic for me ....  clean.  Try not to trip any more alarms!!  
the Chicago metro area and from all  Furnished 1 bedrm. $265.  616-483-9572.  Your in transit boyfriend  Beth doesn't even want to see  L& K  
over the elate of Indiana. We want  Unfurnished lge 1 bedrm, $330.  (though I never got  them!  
you to have an interest in working  755 South Bend Ave.·1 block from  Double bed and night stand-$125  any),  Our sheer perfection intimidates  See Prask, I told you I'd get you in  
with disabled children. The camp  N.D. Ave.  Desk-$50  Brian  men.  the paper. Congratulations on your  
sessions run from June 11 to  deposit. 1-800·582·9320.  Or Best Offer!!  PS: One mo time: "CHAPPlE" "Its  Know yourself-touch yourself.  big day. slacker! The Showels are  
August 16 with orientation the week  Call Brendan at 272-2376  friggin hot in here" "Emphysema  I hate community living  very proud of you  
prior . We provide room and board  LOS ANGELES RENTALS  dog-huh uh"  I'm going to kill you. Zwilling  
plus $1.000.00. If Interested please  (aka Enduring OJ in LA)  Water bed +attached dresser­ Anchors Aweigh. Killer! (and  This is the last chance to see Brian  
call the camp's winter office 312·  '84 NO grad has two rooms for rent  $125  Too that Blonde (Susie Laatz),  Bottoms up)  naked. Call him at 273·3115 if you  
767-CAMP  -one immediate, one in July-sum· mer or lull time. Remodeled home,  Double bed-$150~omes with futon couch  Hope you liked your balloon. Congratulations • keep me in mind  At least I hook up when I"m drunk and out of control, Zwilling. You  are interested. He is very sexy . ..  
SUMMER SALES OPPORTUNITY.  near Pasadena. 20 minutes north of  entertainment center--$40  now • I can do wonders with geot­ hook up when you're completely  111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111  - 
Looking lor ambitious student(s) for  Downtown LA.  matching couch and chair-$20  hermal.  sober. Shame ....  to Kyle Kusek:  
SI.Jmmer advertising sales in South  Call Drew@ H (818) 248·3881/ W  shelves-$15  Love and kisses from your  Take the NOH and shove it,  Congratulations and best of luck  
Bend area and Northwest Indiana.  (818) 797-0297.  nightstand-$15  Appalachian boyfriend.  LoveSticky  from your friends in the class of "94  
Must have automobile. Call  Gary Moeller taxi service included.  Or best offer on any Item  Woody  LET'S ROAD TRIP TO THE  
Enterprise Publishing at 1·800·37 4­ Call277·6475  WHEEL!II  to Jason Kelly"'s Pick" and George  
2253.  2 bedrooms in quiet neighbour·  Nothing but apple juice in this glass.  "knock knock knockin' on heaven's"  
Conversational English teaching  hood. close to campus. Use of kitchen & laundry facilities. Summer  TICKETS  T ALBOTS SHOP T ALBOTS graduation.mother's day.weddings  Guys this is out of control. but you're all worth ill To the esteemed  Dohrman: Congratulations and best of luck  
positions available in South Korea.  and fall school year. Rent is $250  new career.no.east of mall on  lunch bunch seniors, Killer.  from your favorite production  
Call (616)473-2129 for information.  per month. Call Paul at 232-2794.  I need graduation tickets. Please  cleveland rd.we ship too.tell 'm lind­ Bethany. Sam. Chad. Tom and  people in the class of '94  
English Teacher Recruiting Service.  call Lisa at 277-0740  say sent u  Steve. thanks for the memories and  111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111  
College Park Condo for rent this  the guidance (yeah. whatever).  
Will pay$45 for your microwave  summer. Call271·7895.  I Need Graduation Tickets  STUDENTS: BOYCOTT  Best of luck and may you all  To the Masters of Marathon Road  
x2790  289-3203 Mike.  CASTLE POINT APTS  (except Tom. I guess) get a lot in  Trips.  
MOVING TO CHICAGO?  Don't get ripped off like I did!!  the future. I love you guys!  lor putting up w/ kleptomania. my  
ROOMMATE WANTEDII  Apt. In Lincoln Park. Share rent  I need Grad Tickets  pitiful pool·playng .. taking me every·  
To Share Apartment or House  with "94 NO alum. 5 min. to  Jack X3588  where and everything else (dining  
w/ NO 1st yr. Law Stud. next yr.  Downtown.  KELLY,  Why you slimy double-crossing,  hall accomplices)you did for me.  
GUARANTEED GOOD TIME. Call  Washer/Dryer. Fireplace.  I need Graduation tickets.  KELLY,  no good swindler. You've got a lot  thanks 26.2 times.  
Gene@ x4579 or (216) 966-2053  Call after 6:00 pm  Please call Curtis at 282-2197  KELLY,  of guts coming here. after what you  Sherm  
after 5/21.  (312) 4n-5862  KELLY  pulled.  

Dad. check out my photo skills.­

page 24 
The Observer· SPORTS Friday, May 19, 1995 

• BASKETBALL 
Watkins leaves, opts for Maryland 
Associated Press 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. 
Notre Dame freshman for­ward Brian Watkins has decid­ed to transfer to the University of Maryland. The 6-foot-9 Watkins played in 25 games, averaging six minutes and 1.5 points. He had a season-high eight points against Loyola of Chicago, and a season-high five rebounds in four games. 
"We gave him a release after he told us he wanted to look around," coach John MacLeod said. "We wish him the best." 
Watkins, from Nashville, Tenn., visited Louisville and also considered Western Kentucky and Virginia before opting for Maryland. 
He will have three years of eligibility left after redshirting the 1995-96 season. 
Notre Dame had high hopes for Watkins, who holds the record at Overton High School for points (1,447) and rebounds (964). 
But Watkins never developed like the other two Irish fresh­men, Pat Garrity and Derek Manner. Garrity led the team in scoring with 13.4 points. 

The Observer/Jake Peters 

Notre Dame freshman Brian Watkins has decided to transfer to Maryland. He will join Gary Williams' resurgents Terps in 1996-97. 
;~asYlif~tG& 
Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
Clocktower Square 51400 31 North 

(219)277-1291
South Bend, IN 46637 
Boston streaks to 4-3 win 
By JIMMY GOLEN 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 
Mike Macfarlane homered for the fourth time in five games to break an eighth-inning tie and give the Boston Red Sox their fifth consecutive win, 4-3 over the Cleveland Indians on Thursday night. 
Stan Belinda (2-0) pitched 2 2-3 perfect innings, getting Albert Belle to hit into an in­ning-ending, bases-loaded dou­ble play in the seventh and then retiring the next six batters. 
Losing pitcher Jim Poole (1-2) gave up the one-out homer to Macfarlane, his sixth, that landed in the screen above the Green Monster. The Red Sox have homered in nine con­secutive games and 16 of 19 this season. 
Carlos Baerga went 3-for-4 and drove in two runs for the Indians. 
Boston took a 2-0 lead with two unearned runs in the first. Lee Tinsley singled, took sec­ond on an error by pitcher Dennis Martinez and moved to third on a fly ball. 
Vaughn walked and stole sec­ond -a career-high sixth stolen base of the year for the 245-pound first baseman ­and scored when Mike Greenwell's grounder to third was thrown away by Jim Thome. 
To our graduating 
Student Assistants: 
Congratulations and Best Wishes 
from the University Libraries 
May 1995 

-
.. 

Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB •631-7477 M-F9am-5pm 
Being astudent is hard. So we've made buying aMacintosh& easy. So easy, in fact, that the prices on Macintosh personal computers are now even lower than their already low student prices. Unfortunately, they won't stay this low forever. Soyou need to forget about how hard your life is for a minute and start thinking about how easy it will bewith aMacintosh.The comput­er that gives you the power any student can use.The power to be your bese Appletl ~ 

Product prices, produd availabiliiy and sales taxes may INliJ'· ©1995 Apple Computer, Inc. AU rights reserved Apple, the Apple logo, Macintosh, Macintosh Peforma, PowerBook and "The pawer to he~r best" are registered trademarks ofApple Computer, Inc. PrJwer Madnlosb and Mac are trademarks ofAf1J1e Computer, Inc. All Apple"products are designed to be accessible to individUIJ!s wltb disabUity. 7b learn rrwre (U.S. only), call 800-776-2333 or TDD.::.:80.::..0-:::833:._:·6:=223:...------------------.J 
Friday, May 19, 1995 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 25 


Arthur Andersen Welcomes the Following 1995 University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Graduates to Our Firm 
Christopher Andreski Ryan Martin 
New York Office Orange County Office 
Thomas Borger Kristen Martina 
Chicago Office Chicago Office 

Stanley Bowman Kristen Mikolyzk 
Chicago Office Chicago Office 
C. Patrick Braley Michael Molnar 
Atlanta Office New York Office 
Donato Capobianco Lisa Monaco 
Boston Office New York Office 
Jim Carr Laura Mossey 
New York Office Atlanta Office 
David Clear Sara Noe 
New York Office Chicago Office 
David Crawford Mary Pelican 
Chicago Office Chicago Office 
Christine DeMott Jason Pett 
Pittsburgh Office Baltimore Office 
Bret Dooley Lisa Powers 
Minneapolis Office Chicago Office 
Jennifer Dowd Michael Riggs 
New York Office Chicago Office 
Tracy Ellis Ricardo Rios 
Chicago Office Pittsburgh Office 
Nicholas Galassi Christopher Rosen 
Chicago Office Chicago Office 
Sarah Haiman Jeanne Schloegel 
Denver Office Milwaukee Office 
Michelle Hiigli Timothy Shannon 
Chicago Office Chicago Office 
Sarah Ireton Eric Shultz 
Chicago Office Washington, D. C. Office 
Michael Jarosky Kara Smith 
Chicago Office New York Office 
John Jennings Stephen Soderling 
Chicago Office Chicago Office 
John Starr Chicago Office Washington, D. C. Office Jason Langan John Taliaferro Ill Keith Kooman 
New York Office Washington, D. C. Office 
Stephanie Lausier Randy Torres 
Chicago Office New York Office 
James Locke Dennis Verdico Washington, D. C. Office Chicago Office Catherine Lupo Joseph Wagner 
Chicago Office Baltimore Office 
Erik Maier Margaret Zimmerman 
Atlanta Office Chicago Office 
Alexander Marchetti 
Chicago Office 

.. 
-






page 26 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, May 19, 1995 
• SAINT MARY'S SENIORS 
Graduating Belles make their mark 
By CAROLINE BLUM Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Last week their locker doors closed for the last time. 
Robin Hrycko, Nancy Waibel, April Rhoades, Seanne Patrick, and Joann Weed joined their fellow seniors Maura Sullivan, Jen Ferry, Tara Crull, Katie Northup, and Carisa Thomas as retired members of the Saint Mary's sports legend. These ten women will graduate this Saturday from Saint Mary's. 
Many of these women will tell you that playing sports for Saint Mary's College was different t~an playing anywhere else. Maura Sullivan, co-captain and mid-fielder for the soccer team this year expressed her emo­tions best when she said, "The best part of being at Saint Mary' s was playing soccer." 
Her teammates and fellow seniors will agree with her. The sports teams at Saint Mary's are different than any other due to the rare camaraderie and support between the play­ers. 
"Softball was not an individ­ual sport for me," said left field­er and Belles's softball co-cap­tain Seanne Patrick. 
Patrick, along with catcher April Rhoades, were able to end their softball careers at Saint Mary's with one of the best sea­sons the team has seen in years. As a team, they placed 21st in the nation and 5th in the region. 
In their future journeys, Rhoades and Patrick will always remember the words of their assistant coach Jan Travis, "We are a team, but above all we are friends." 
In contrast to the softball team lies a trying, yet reward­ing final season for tennis co­captains Nancy Waibel and Robin Hrycko. With several in­juries and the loss of several members, Waibel and Hrycko were called upon for help and guidance for their new mem­bers. 
"All things considered, I think that we performed the best we could this year," said Hrycko. "I could not be at all disappointed with the season. It is the people who make the team, and our team not only received a lot of support from each other, but from our coach as well." 
For their dedication this sea­son, Waibel was awarded the Coach's Award while Hrycko was named the team's most valuable player. 
Both Waibel and Hrycko hope to continue their tennis careers in the future, perhaps through coaching. 
The soccer team, who also had a trying season this year, relied on the leadership from their seniors and co-captains Maura Sullivan and Jen Ferry for guidance. 
Sullivan, the team' s mid­
fielder, has played ball for the 
Belles throughout her four 
years at the college and was a 
starter during her last three 
years. 

This year called for a strong 
leadership role from Sullivan. 
Due to the injury of her team­
mate Ferry, she was the only 
senior on the playing field for 
HAPPY 

BIRTHDAY! 
Scott is 21 on May 18th 
Now You're Legal! 
Love, Mom, Dad, Monica & Carin 
the freshman to look up to. 
"In the past we' ve had a large number of freshman, but a lot of upperclassmen as well. This year, that wasn't the case," said Sullivan. 
"I really enjoyed my four years as part of the soccer team," said Ferry. "Since Saint Mary's is such a small college, I have been able to get to know a lot of the other athletes here." 
Ferry earned the Scholar Athlete Award this season. as well the Coach's Award for soc­cer. 
Another satisfying last season came this year for Carisa Thomas, Katie Northup, and Tara Crull of the swimming team. 
Carisa, a sprint freestyler, backstroker, and relay member was pleased with her season this year. 
"Swimming is a huge part of my life," said Northup. "People didn't necessarily worry only about themselves, they backed each other up and supported one another. 
Tara Crull will also be missed by the Belles next year. However, at Crull's last meet at the Liberal Arts 
Championships at DePaul University, her hard work was rewarded with the best perfor­mance of her life. Here, Crull dropped an unbelievable twelve seconds in the mile, which was 
~ 
,_.,.,..,,..,....,.,...
.I Homu &rvlng Pannts and Friends of 'J-Notre Dame and St. Mary'• College 
7Ty the OPTION! f".¥1• "H,_A_,Jr-H-· 
P!IFICT POl.,, .CUDUATIOI POOTULL 
JPV PIISIIMAW OltlltATIOJ IIUIIOKS 
Wilma L Behnke 219-291-7153 
~21, 
1995 ettdt de. . • 
year's team was the best I have ever seen." 
Last year, Weed' s concentra­tion was on field events. Although she still competed in the javelin throw and shot put this season, Weed also shifted gears and partook in several running events as well. 
Weed 's most crucial role on the team this season was her role as captain, however. Not only did she provide other stu­dents with advice and words of experience, but a fun, easy-go­ing atmosphere. 
"We will really miss Joann next year," said sophomore teammate Kelly Medlin. "She had guided us with her exam­ple and supported us in all of our events." 
The students of Saint Mary's College represent their school in several different ways. All are roles of service and dedica­tion, but especially in athletic competition. Their marks of dedication and support, how­ever, will always remain em­bedded in the faces of their younger teammates at Saint Mary's. 
her personal record. She also swam a time close to her sea­son best in the 200M butterfly . 
"I couldn't have dreamed of ending the season any better," said Krull. "My hard work paid off, and everything fell into place when it needed to." 
Krull puts a high value on her career as a athlete at Saint Mary's. 
"Whenever I look back on the years I spent at Saint Mary's I will always remember the swim team," said Krull. 
Krull was the recipient of the Director's Award as well as the Regi Simmond's Most Inspirational Swimmer Award this season. She takes pride in the fact that she was able to handle the huge task of being a four year athlete while persuing her academic endeavors. 
Last but certainly not least is the receiver of the Senior Athlete of the Year Award, Joann Weed. Weed, the track team's captain, was able to end her college career in track on a record-breaking team. 
"I am really sorry to see the season end," said Weed. "This 
']) 95 
Micliae[J. 9\[jeliaus 
.dreams do come true­we're so Proud 
Of YOU! 
Love. Mom & Dad ·6s 

-
~--­
Friday, May 19, 1995 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 27 
WITHOUT YOU CAMPUS MINISTRY WOULDN'T HAVE HAD A PRAYER 
Many students at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's have sacrificed their time and energy to minister to their fellow students and other people, inside and outside of Notre Dame. Whether it be through religious education, retreats, liturgy and wor... ship or other programs, they have led by serving. 
The Campus Ministry staff and I have been privileged to work side by side with many seniors and graduate students who will be receiving their degrees. 
THANKS and CONGRATULATIONS to the following men and women who have ministered to others in many different ways. May you continue to be a bless... ing for the Church, and may the Church be a sign of God's love in the world! 
JULIE AUDRETCH PATRICK BARREDO .ROBERT BLEIL BRETT BOESSEN WILLIAM BRODERICK JAMES BROWNFIEL JOHN CABALLERO PETER CALIZZI TANYACEJA RUBYCELA ESPINOZA CHAD CHRISTOPHERSON RYAN CLARK MEGAN CONWAY -DAVID CURRAN JEANNE CURRAN JOHN DEVONA HELEN DIETEMAN MIKE EGAN CHRIS FALKNER MICHAEL FLORETH SUZYFODOR ANDREA FOSTER JULIANNE GADE ANDREW GASSER MICHAEL GAYLES CHRISTINA HECKMAN ELIZABETH HERNANDEZ 
MARK HOFER KEVIN HOFFMAN LISA HOLSINGER MATTHEW JACHIM BRUCE JOHNSON FELICIA JOHNSON ELIZABETH JORDAN TOO KELLER CHRISTY KEYES JACQUELINE KNUE BECKY KROEGER BRIAN LUENSE AOIFELYONS BRIAN McCARTHY BRIAN McCONVILLE KYLE MEAD ELISE METZLER CHRISTINE MILLER PETE MINIHAN PATRICIA MOLLOY 
SCOTT MORGAN
-

MARIA MUNOZ 
CARLNICPON JANE OESTERLE DANA PARISI 
PAULPRIBAZ 
EMILY PUETZ 
Fr. Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. Director, Campus Ministry 
BRANDI ROSE ANNE MARIE SALAN JOHN SEBASTIAN CHRISTOPHER SETTI SARA SKALICKY VALERIE SOLEDAD ANDREA SQUATRITO JIM STEHLIK CARRIE STAMBAUGH ROCHELLE STEWART ABBYSUTKUS TOMSWEDER JOE TAIJERON ELIANA TAMAYO BETHANY THOMAS JEN TILGHMAN VINCENT TJIA KATHY TURNER KAY WAKATAKE KATIE WALTER.. AMYWANKEN MICHELLE WILLINGHAM KELLY WOOD SEUNGYU GREG ZUSCHLAG 
-




page 28 
• TRACK AND fiElD 
-
~ 
~~CJ ~rocrJJ 

Congratulations, 
M&[f'& 
We love you! 

Congratulations Graduates! 
Receive a package of notecards free with your order. 
This weekend only! 
Friday, May 19, 1995 
The Observer • SPORTS 
Irish qualifiers for the IC4A Meet 
lOOM-Allen Rossum (10.71) 400M-Danny Payton (47.41) BOOM-Jeff Hojnacki (1:49.55) 1500M-Joe Royer (3:47.54) 3000 Steeplechase -John 
Cowan (8:49.65); Mike Smedley (9:00.96) 
5000M -Mike McWilliams (14:06.53); Matt Althoff (14:18.42); Nate Ruder (14:23.92); Joe Dunlop (14:30.69) 
lO,OOOM-McWilliams (29:31.64); Dunlop (29:34 .27); Ruder (30:12.24); Jason Hexing 

Jamie Truog 
You have realized 
Photo courtesy of Greg Moretti 
your dream and 
made us proud 
The Observer 
Love, Mom and Dad, 
wishes everyone a happy 
Nicole, Bapa, Grandma 
and safe summer! 
CONGRATULATIONS MEN'S VOLLEYBALL SENIORS JACK, JOHN, CHRIS, PEDRO AND MATT 
~· .· 
LOVE, THE STROTTMAN'S 
(30:21.50); Jeff Mackey 
(30:42.01); Shane DuBois (30:53.25); Derek Martisus (31:09.30) 
llOHH-Errol Williams (13.81); Kevin Rehen (14.73) Pole Valut-David Gerrity 
(16'6.5); Dan Grenough (16'5) Hammer-Greg Moretti (18'0) High Jump -Brian Headrick 
(7'0); Todd Johnston (6'10) Triple Jump -Lamarr Justice 
(50'8) Shot Put-Mike Fleison (50'8) 4x100 Relay-41.20 4x400 Relay-3:16.2 (indoor) 

LF 
The Notre Dame Golf Course and Pro Shop 
Distinctive GolfApparel and Equipment With Exclusive Notre Dame Logos 
Congratulations Seniors!! 
(219) 631-6425 
The GolfShop At Notre Dame "On The Curve" in the Rockne Memorial 



~----------------------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, May 19, 1995 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 29 

THE GRADUATE 
HUMANITIES 
SCHOOL AWARDS  
WERE  Thomas Williams, Ph.D., Philosophy  
Dissertation Director: Al.fredJ Freddoso, Professor ofPhilosophy  
ESTABLISHED IN  
1990 TO  SOCIAL SCIENCES  

RECOGNIZE SUPERIOR ACADEMIC ACHIEVEMENT AND RESEARCH ACCOMPLISHMENT OF A GRADUATING STUDENT IN EACH OF THE 
Debra Lynn DeLaet, Ph.D., Government and International Studies 
Dissertation Director: Alan K Dowty, Professor ofGovernment and International Studies 
SCIENCE 
William T. Christiansen II, Ph.D., Chemistry and Biochemistry 
Dissertation Director: Francis J Caste/fino, Dean ofScience and Kleiderer-Pezold Professor ofBiochemistry 
.. 

ENGINEERING 
GRADUATE 
Christopher B. Roberts, Ph.D.,Chemical Engineering 
SCHOOL'S FOUR Dissertation Director: joan F. Brennecke, Associate Professor ofChemical Engineering
DIVISIONS. 

Friday, May 19, 1995 

page 30 The Observer • SPORTS 
• BASEBALL 
Wright State spoils Notre Dame's Big Dance chance 
By MEGAN McGRATH Sporn Writer 
Barring a bit of good luck, the roller-coaster ride that was the Notre Dame baseball season is over. 
Bu please remain in your seats until the ride has come to a complete stop. 
This Monday, the NCAA will announce the 48 teams selected to participate in the baseball play-offs. After losing 8-5 to Wright State in the champi­onship of the MCC tournament, its unlikely that Notre Dame (40-21) will be awarded an at­large berth. 
"I've been told our chances are 50/50 at best," hopeful head coach Paul Mainieri said. "Considering all the injuries and adversity we've had this season, 40 wins is a tremen­dous accomplishment. I think we're deserving." 
The Irish received an omen of things to come in the very first game of the tournament. In the eighth inning of their 9-7 win over Xavier, Ryan Topham was hit by a pitch, fracturing his left wrist. 
It was oddly appropriate for Notre Dame to lose their best home run hitter in the most important series of the year. 
This season, the team has been decimated by injuries, los­ing seniors Bob Lisanti (back) and Craig Allen (shoulder) and junior A.J. Jones (leg) for the year. Centerfielder Rowan Richards missed three weeks with a shoulder injury, and was nursing a sore wrist at the end of the year. 
We care. From the day you move in, our friendly, profes· sional staff will give you great service. Great location, great service, great price ••• Hickory Village has what you need. Come by and see for yourself! 
Efficiencies from $270 
1-Bedrooms from $285 
2-Bedrooms from $355 
24-hour Emergency Maintenance Service Attentive Staff • Cable TV Available Free Aerobics Classes Laundry Room in Every Built:ling Acres of Rolling Lawns and Trees Pool, Sundeck &Clubhouse Close to Great Shopping Air Conditioning 

Call or stop by today and v.e'll show you how great living at Hickory Village can be. 
272-1880 
+UCKORij 
DlLLA~E-
Mon.-Fri. 8-6, Sat. 10·4 & Sun. 12-4 
Junior George Restovich The Greyhounds had prob­and then scored on Justin bases. But a shot by Restovich picked up the long-ball slack, lems early. Losing pitcher Jess Scholl's single. didn't have the distance, and blasting two homers in the Richardson struggled in the But after the four-run first, was caught on the centerfield team's next contest, an 11-8 first inning, hitting the first two Sullins settled down. He went warning track. win over Wright State. batters he faced. After getting the rest of the way, allowing Restovich, Amrhein, 
Senior Tim Kraus got the win, Mike Amrhein to strike out, he one run and striking out eight Richards, Sollmann and Brock going six innings and striking gave up a three-run triple to Wright State rallied for two were named to the All­out five. Richards. runs in the second and got an­Tournament team. Topham, 
But the next day the Raiders Amrhein went 3-5 with two other in the fifth to drive starter Brooks and DeSensi joined got the better of the Irish, earn­RBI and J.J. Brock went 3-4 Darin Schmalz from the game. Amrhein and Sollmann on the ing an 8-6 win. with a triple and two RBI. Reliever Gleichowski gave up All-MCC first team. Restovich 
Freshman Christian Parker The win set up another meet­two runs in the sixth on a was named to the second team, was effective through three, but ing with Wright State, and homer by TomBeam. while Parker was the struggled in the fourth inning. again the Raiders triumphed. But the crushing blow was Newcomer of the Year. Parker allowed a two-run The first inning looked to be a delivered by tournament MVP Sollmann's 11 triples qcur­homer by Matt Piskor and a repeat of the earlier game, Kris Jarosz, as he unloaded on rently leads the nation, while solo shot by Doug Lowe as part though, as the Irish got to a Mike Balicki offering to untie Topham was second in RBI of a four-run frame. starter Sean Sullins early. the score in the bottom of the with 79 at the time of his 
The loss dropped the Irish to Craig DeSensi and Scott eighth. injury. the consolation bracket, where Sollmann led-off the game with In relief, Rich Sauget allowed "Overall we had a great sea­they had to win two games to singles. DeSensi was caught two insurance runs to score. son, considering we had a new claim the MCC championship. stealing and Amrhein flew out, The Irish had a chance to coach, a lot of transfers and all 
Notre Dame cruised in but a walk to Restovich kept the rally. Pinch-hitter Christian kinds of injuries," Topham Tuesday's first game, pounding inning alive. Parker led-off the ninth with a said. Northern Illinois 12-4. Notre Dame capitalized on single. After Brock struck out, "We had some big wins over Sophomore Gregg Henebry the chance, as Richards singled DeSensi was hit by a pitch. ranked teams like Miami and went the distance, allowing to score Sollmann. Brooks fol­Sollmann flew out to center, Pepperdine, so I'd like to think eight hits. lowed with a two-run triple, and Amrhein singled to load the we still have a chance." 
MEDJUGORJE 
1995 National Conference University of Notre Dame June 2-4 

"Responding in America to the Call of Our Lady" 
Faith, Prayer, Fasting, Reconciliation and Peace 

Fr."Svet"Kraljevic, OFM, is a Franciscan priest who has been closely associated with Medjugorje. He is pres­ently involved in refu­gee efforts, and will speak on "Peace", a topic very close to his heart. 
Ralph Martin has been a leader in renewal movements in the church for years. He is the author of many books including his lat­est, The Catholic Church at the End of an Age: What is the Spirit Say­ing? 

Conference Speakers Include: 

Fr. Martin Lucia, MSS, the founder of The Apostolate For Per­petual Eucharistic Ado­ration, has been in­volved in starting per­petual adoration in over 1,000 parishes through­out the world. 
Bishop Paolo Maria Hnilica, SJ, founder of Pro Deo et Fratribus, is a confi­dant of the Pope. The Bishop is a leader in promoting unity among those who are working for the Tri­umph of Mary's Im­maculate Heart. Fr. Edward O'Con­nor, esc, an inter­nationally known Marianologist, taught theology at Notre Dame for over 40 years. He is the author of many books includ­ing his latest, The Catholic Vision. 

Sr. Emmanuel · 
munity of the Beati tudes. She sends regu­lar faxes from Med­jugorje, and brings the spirit of Medjugorj 
with her wherever speaks. 

Bro. David Lopez, OSF, although para­lyzed by cerebral palsy, lives in a her­mitage near Browns­ville, Texas and has· dedicated his life to prayer and service to others. He has been to Medjugorje five 
times. BishopJohnJ. Myers, of the Diocese of Peo­ria, has become known for his success in fos­tering priestly voca­tions. He has recently published two pastoral letters (one for youth and one for adults) en­titled, "A Fresh, Spiri­tual Way ofThinking". 
D
Phone (__) ---------Total# RegisteringName 


Address -------------------------------(zip) 
#__Adults@ $35 ..................................................................... $ #___Married Couples@ $60 .................................................... $-­
Special Needs Seating

#___Youth (12-18)@ $20 ........................................................ $== 
The floor of the arena is reservfd for those with 

special needs and one esc?trt. I you have a special Family Rate@$80 # _ _Adults # __Youth/Child ....................... $-­
#__Children (<12)@ $5 ......................................................... $ 
need please describe it be ow. 
Hand1c'f/

#___Priests ..... # __Religious ..... # ___Deacons ... (no charge) -­
Name o Escort: 

Box Lunches@ $7.25 each: # __Sat..#__Sun..Total... ............... $__ Offering to support the work of the Conference..$.__ 
For housing/food package on Notre Dame's 
campus call:

Total Registrations, Offering, & Lunches...................S-­
(219) 63 I-6691 or 631-7640

Make checks payable to Queen of Peace Ministries (U.S. currency on ly) and send to 
Queen ofPeace Ministries, Box 761, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

r-----------------------~----------­
Friday, May 19, 1995 
• BASEBALL 
The end of the road a sweet one for seniors 
By MEGAN McGRATH Spons Wrirer 
"Senior leadership" is almost an oxymoron; its expected that your upperclassmen provide the guidance younger players need. 
The Notre Dame baseball team was led this season by two seniors who exceeded expectations in the leadership department -Craig DeSensi and Tim Kraus. 
First baseman DeSensi expe­rienced his best year in an Irish uniform, earning first-team All­MCC honors. 
"This year Craig was told he was going to play everyday," coach Paul Mainieri says. "Moving him to lead-off made our offense click, and defen­sively he was as solid a player as anyone." 
Mainieri finds DeSensi just as 
impressive personally. 
"I have so much admiration 
for him," Mainieri says of his 
captain. "No one works as 
hard as Craig. He epitomizes what a student athlete should be." 
"I didn't try to be real vocal, instead I wanted to be a good example for the younger guys," DeSensi says. 
It was his roommate Kraus who provided the more vocal leadership, as his distinctive voice could be heard all over the field. 
"Tim definitely had the most enthusiasm on the team," Mainieri says. "He faced a lot of adversity but didn't let it affect his attitude." 
Kraus had a superb junior campaign, going 9-0 with a 
2. 73 ERA. One of his biggest wins came in the NCAA region­al, as he tossed a complete game to beat top-ranked Clemson 8-1. 
"It was definitely the highlight of my career at Notre Dame," Kraus says of the game. 
Kraus went undrafted last summer, and then faced arm troubles early in the season. He earned wins and saves against ranked competition like 

The Observer • SPORTS 

Semi-final game played at noon in Byrd Stadium, 
Maryland 

See related story on page 40 for additional Irish lacrosse coverage. 
Pepperdine and Miami. 
"Tim always steps up in the clutch," Mainieri says. "That's important for the younger, less experienced guys to see." 
Both he and DeSensi hope the June draft provides an opportu­nity to continue their baseball careers. 
Fellow senior Rich Sauget 

~orin Q:ollcgc 
OF THE 
of .Rotrc 'flam( 'flu 1Cac 
J~::~::i~:;;~;~~:':~:;;~;:~;:'::ir~:~:t~::';;l:;:~~:::i:=~.~G:R;AD UATl N SENIORS,
G 

:··' S OF 1995 
::~:~!!tF~! 
BRIAN CHAVEZ. 
~~~~: ~hc:'Jyi[il,li:l·i!il,!•lll~. 
.:~;~:~~~~j::: )t 
.JAMES 
.JOHN 
KEITH r..Nt.JLI'::l 
DEITZ ,::;:.:::;..,:~: :_:mmjj~f:}::::,:,:@:) 
posted a 2-1 record, a 3.31 ERA and earned three saves. Sauget's petition for a fifth year of eligibility is still pending, as is Bob Lisanti's. 
Classmate Craig Allen has been cleared for a fifth year after missing his sophomore campaign with appendicitis. 
.JOHN SEBASTIAN ANDY SEBESTA .JAY SHARP .JEFF SHEA 
···:::.:C·OREY WEBER ANDY WEISS .JOHN WENSINGER MATT WooD 

PRO SPORT M.C. 
''We've Got Your T-Shirt'' 10% off all T-Shirts through May 

North Village Mall 8. Phone: 273-5486••­
Also Extreme &Far Side T-Shirts Available 
We Also Carry Calendars, Hats & Stickers 

page 31 
%eSports 
f})epartment wislies 
gooa{uc/( to our 
mentors: Jason Xg_{{y, Jonatlian IJensen, and, ofcourse,L(jeorge f})o/irmann 
BED'N'BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
Rooms in pri~·at~ homeJ'for: 
JPW, BLUE & GOLD, GRADUATION, FOOTBALL, FRESHMEN ORIENTATION 
AND OTHER SP/iCIAL NIJ.SMC W/iliKENDS 
(219) 291-7153 
NORTH 
VILLAGE LANDING 
tmi81i Ill 88 Nlll'lllll llll'llln Raid IIIDr1ll Vlllgl Mill 
Prime Rib Sunday Brunch 
9 AM -2 PM 
Serving Prime Rib, Omelets, Baked Chicken, Desserts 
272·8180 
"Ohur Lady on 
t e Dome" As the river called "St. Joseph" flows softly towards its end it turns eastward at a city aptly named "South Bend" 'Twas here Fr. Sarin founded a 
university 
or the glory of God's reign 
li.e named it for "Our Mother" Notre Dame -Notre Dame 
...So begins a beautiful eight stanza poem that belongs in every fan's home and office. Suitable for framing, the tribute is bordered in blue and gold. 
The spirit of the University sin­cerely expressed -makes a cher­ished gift. 
Send personal check or money order to: Pat O'Block, P.O. Box 306, LaGrange, IL 60525 
Allow 10 days to 2 weeks for delivery. 
fNa~~-------------------, 
I 
-----------------1 
'Address 1
I ----------------1 
1'clty -------state __Zip ___ '
1 
!Number of poems@ 12.95* each __ -1I 
1 Total -----!
! $2.50Total S&H ____ J 1 Grand Total -----l L*$1.00 from each sale will be doMted wI LI the Notre Dame Scholarship Fund I 1 
----------------------~ 
-
~

.--------------­
page 32 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, May 19, 1995 
Irish 
continued from page 40 
say, they had something to prove. 
After being outscored 57-20 in their past three tournament outings, Notre Dame wanted to show that the Irish program is for real. 
"Respect isn't given," senior Willie Sutton observed. "It is earned." 
The Irish earned it by control­ling play in the offensive end and holding a high-octane Duke offense in check. 
·At halftime, the chances of the upset didn't look all that promising, as the Irish trailed 7-4 and were struggling to gen­erate quality scoring chances. But after just 2:46 that all changed. 
Colley's second goal of the day started a 7-0 Irish stretch that would prove to be the game's deciding factor. 
"They really ~uck it to us when we were down," ACC Tournament MVP Ross Moscatelli said. 
During this all-important run, it was Colley, Notre Dame's career leader in every major offensive category, who took charge. 
Taking a feed from Brian Gilfillan coming around the crease, Colley went to his patented jump-shot for the first gpal of s.e.cond half. Next, it was a rocket from the left cor­ner of the cage. 
After sophomore Tim Kearney, who tallied three times on the day, converted a face-break opportunity off of the face-off, it was Colley's turn again. 
Picking up a ground ball after a failed Blue Devil clear, the Wilton, Conn. native found the back of the empty net with a 35-foot blast to put the Irish ahead for good 8-7. 
"We shadowed him the whole day but he is just too good to shutdown," Duke coach Mike Pressler said. 
The next two goals were vin­tage Colley. With less than a minute gone by in the fourth quarter, Colley took a feed from Sutton, picked the top right cor­ner of the net, and blistered a shot past a helpless Chris Manning. 
"If you let randy shoot from 10 yards, he's going to put it where he wants," Sutton noted. "I just have to get him the ball." 
There is a little more to Sutton's playmaking ability than just that. The same can be said of Colley. ' 
Working his defender behind the cage, Colley nailed a wide­open Kearney with a pin-point feed on the-door-step to make it 10-7, thus giving the Irish firm control of the game. 
"For a while, all we could generate were little vignettes of offense but we started to get it going a little later in the game," Corrigan said. 
Once the Irish took a rather commanding three-goal edge, the burden then shifted to the defense. 
With the stubborn Notre Dame defense and freshman goaltender Alex Cade at the top of their game, the reservations to College Park could be made. 
"Their defense did a hell of a job," ACC MVP Matt Oglesby said. "Notre Dame forced us to rush and go into a one-on-one offense." 
Cade was especially apprecia­tive of this effort. 
"Our defense realized they ahd to step it up in the second half and they did," said Cade, who stopped 17 shots. 
Per usual, the long-poles effectively did their job, but it was the defensive midfielders who were just as crucial. 
With three of Duke's top scor­ers coming from the middie position, the pressure was on those such as Todd Bialous and Jimmy Keenan to limit scoring chances. 
"Our defensive middies did an 
absolutely incredible job," Pett 
noted. "They just wore them 
down." 
In addition to putting the clamps on the Blue Devil offense, the Irish midfielders controlled the ground. 
"The balls just seemed to roll 'tnto their sticks," Oglesby said. 
"They were all over the ground 
balls. We thought we'd wear 
them down, but that didn't hap­
pen." 
What did happen though, is 
the Irish may have just solidi­
fied their position as one of the 
country's superior teams and 
We're Cheap. And Easy. 
not just the best of a weak region. 
"Maybe we put the stigma of western lacrosse to bed," Sutton said. "All but one of us are from the east. It doesn't matter where we play, the brand of lacrosse is the same. This win will solidify all the work we've done." 
"The step-up in competition was vital." Corrigan noted. "We wouldn't have been pre­pared to play without our schedule. We've become a bet­ter team because of it. It put us in a position to win games in the tournament." 
The Irish will once again be in that position tomorrow. 
"We've got one of the better teams in the country," Iorio said. 
"We're not here to lose." 



Congratulations Graduates and Parents. Running out of room? We can pack it. We can ship it. Free Pick-up at dorm or apartment. 
~-~XES PLUS ~ 
You can also buy your boxes & shipping materials at Boxes Plus Hours: Monday-Saturday 9:30 a.m.-5:30 p.m. 5622 Grape Rd., Wilshire Plaza, Mishawaka 277-5555 


CONGRATULATIONS 
LONDON PROGRAM STUDENTS 
-
in the 

Class of '95 



Friday, May 19, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS 
• SOFTBALL 
Irish a post-season contender again 
By BETSY BAKER Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame softball team won its third consecutive Midwestern Collegiate Conference tournament in its final conference appearance last week. The Irish posted a perfect 4-0 record with victo­ries over Detroit, Northern Illinois and two victories over 

KEVIN D. KRINER 
ON YOUR 
GRADUATION ENGAGEMENT TO DANIELLA SCHMIDT AND JOB WITH UNISYS 
ALL AT 21! 
LOVE, MOM, DAD, AND MICHELLE 

!Jfyou seekfor a monumenl, gaze around. 
( 9nscriplion in r51. '?auf's Ca/JJedraf. Bondon.) 
The Department of Public Relations and Information congratulates our graduating volunteer tour guides, who looked around a little bit while they were here: 
Sarah Badger William Brennan Hong Ly Reynold Nesiba 
otce 



COMMENCEMENT CONCERT 
~aniet @;)tome, ~irector 
SATURDAY • MAY 20 • 1995 • 9 PoMo STEPAN CENTER • FREE ADMKSSKON 
Illinois-Chicago in the tourna­ment, gaining the team its sec-. ond straight NCAA tournament bid. 
The Irish pitching staff, led by junior Terry Kobata, gave up only one unearned run in 28 innings allowing for the sweep. Kobata, who holds a 22-3 record with a 0.44 ERA, won all four games for the Irish. Kobata, the Most Valuable 
CONGRATULATIONS TO 

Player of the MCC champi­onship, was also named First­team All-Mideast Region for the third consecutive season. 
Kobata has battled injury throughout the season but has still put up conference and na­tion-leading numbers. In fact, without knowledge of the great success she had in first two sesons with the Irish, one could consider her statistics astound­ing. She currently leads all Division I pitchers with an av­erage of 10.71 strikeouts per game and is fourth in the ERA column. Kobata threw a no-hit­ter verses Detroit and two one­hitters in the victories over Ilinois-Chicago for the MCC championship. 
"Terry has done remarkably well for us, especially consider­ing she has fought injury," said Irish head coach Liz Miller. "She has really come through for us with some strong per­formances and that is what is most important." 
Kobata is joined on the first­
team All-Mideast Region by 
sophomore designated player 
&flrRilyrn ;m~rsrnafftj "' 
C®Wf!NlllWIJn(J(J!l)fMi) f{))!l)1Jij(j1J> rGfltlVill 
You committed to and accomplishedyour dream beyond our wildest expectations! 
we are undoubtedly the proudest family today and always. Love, Mom, Dad and Shea 
a me 


page 33 
Semi-Final Semi-Final 
games games
Softbal~ 


1. Michigan 
Friday 
4:30p.m. 
4. DePaul 
Katie Marten, with freshman center fielder Jennifer Giampolo winning honors as second-team All-Mideast Region. Marten, a walk-on whose duties were limited last season to base running, has used her speed to mold her way into the Irish line-up. Marten was also named second-team all-MCC and leads off the Irish line-up, boasting a .337 aver­age in that position. 
"Katie had been hitting well all fall and over our spring trip in Hawaii found the opportunity to· break into the line~oup," said Miller. "She forces a lot of mis­takes in the infield and is de-
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used books bouglt and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25.000 Hardback and Pepertlack Books in stock 


• 
Out-Of-Print Search Service -$1.00 

• 
Appraisals large and smaN 


Open noon to aix Tueaday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219] 232-8444 
STAYING AROUND ''The Bend''? 
Need a job that fits your summer schedule? 
Memorial Home Care offers an excellent opportunity to fit work around your class load! 0 We're see,king energetic, responsible, caring people to join our KidKare child care staff. 0 As a KidKare registry s-taff member, you'd be "on call" to fill staffing assignments for area families in need ofchild care services. 0 Evening or daytime, you accept assignments that meet your schedule! 0 Flexible hours. Great pay. 
Call 273-2273 to find out more! 
-
...
Memorial Home Care® 
17390 Dugdale Drive, South Bend, IN 46635 
ceiving with her speed.~' 
"She has really set the tone for us in many of our games." 
Giampolo, who in her first season has started all but two games for the Irish in center field, was also named to the all­MCC first team. the _all­Newcomer team, and all-MCC tournament team. Giampolo's defense leads the Irish outfield­ers as she also contributes at the plate, ranking second in RBI's and third in runs scored. 
The Irish begin the NCAA tournament Friday, as they head to Ann Arbor, Michigan, for the Mideast Regional which is hosted by the top-seeded Michigan Wolverines. 
Their first game will be against Illinois-Chicago who they have defeated in their last two games. The Irish come in off a seven-game winning streak, their longest of the sea­son, and will be looking to the unstoppable pitching combined with much improved defense to sweep the regional like they did the MCC tournament. ' 
Miller. who in her third sea­
son has compiled a 115-50 
record and was voted MCC 
Coach of the Year for her sec­
ond straight year, is cautious 
going into the tournament. 
"There are only thirty-two 
teams left and none of them are 
weak," said Miller. 
"We can't look beyond any 
team because each team poses 
a big challenge." 
She hopes that the team will 
remain as focussed and intense 
as they have been throughout 
the season, but also will remain 
loose, as they were for the MCC 
tournament. 
"It's all a matter of momen­
tum at ·this point. 1 just hope 
we can stay focussed but re­
laxed," said Miller. 


Friday, May 19, 1995

page 34 The Observer • SPORTS 
Bes-Wishes -o Gradua-ina 5-uden--A-hle-es, ltanaaers, and ,.rainers Fro111 -he OHice of Acade111ic Services for 5-uden--A-hle-es 
Baseball Football Hockey Softball Men's Tennis Craig Allen Mark Andrzejewski Troy Cusey Michele Cline Horst Dziura Eric Danapilis (Jan.'95) Steven Armbruster Jeff Hasselman Elizabeth Goetz 
William DeSensi Brian Baker Brent Lamppa Sara Hayes Trainers Paul Failla (Jan.'95) Lee Becton Carey Nemeth Andrea Keys Stephen Dunn Frank jacobs (Jan. '95) Jonathan Bergmann John Rushin Patrick Flanagan
Men's Soccer

Timothy Kraus Joseph Carroll Peter Letherman 
Kevin Adkisson

Pat Leahy (Jan.'95) Tom Carter Lacrosse Julie Mayglothling
Bertran Bader

Richard Sauget Travis Davis Todd Bialous Jeanne McElroy
Christopher Carlson 

Daniel Farrell Christopher Bury Daniel McKenna 
Richard Christofer

Men's Basketball Xavier Frascogna William Gallagher jean Schlafly
Christopher Conway 

Lamarr Justice Herbert Gibson Michael Iorio 
Christopher Dean 

Kevin Ryan Justin Goheen Ryan Jewell Men's Track 
Jason Fox

Sean Ryan Tracy Graham Kevin Lynyak Richard Antoine 
Jean Joseph

William Taylor Christopher Ham Christopher Onderdonk Christopher Coghlan 
Timothy Oates 

Jason Williams Brian Hamilton (Jan.'95) Marc Pasquale John Cowan 
Aurelio Prado 

Germain Holden (Jan.'95) Jason Pett joseph Curran 
Beronie Richardson 

Women's Basketball Timothy Klusas Peter Snyder Shane Dubois 
Stephen Whitley 

Letitia Bowen James Kordas Gregory Fennell Ryan Leahy Managers Michael Fleisch
Women's Soccer

Cheerleaders Thomas MacDonald William Albertini Daniel Grenough
Jodi Hartwig

Andrew Budzinski LaRon Moore Christopher Androski Patrick Harrington 
Robin Mego

Tracy Ellis Jeremy Nau Sarah Archambeault Brian Headrick
Jill Matesic (Jan.'95)

James Glover Jeremy Sample Charles Braley jeff Mackey
Tiffany Thompson

Brennan McDonald Stefan Schroffner Justin Caulfield James Meloro Michael Mugavero Charles Stafford Michael Chiaravalloti Men's Swimming Gregory Moretti Christopher Peterson Gregory Stec David Crawford James Keeley Joseph Royer 
-William Spence Shawn Wooderl Steven Dalton Nathaniel Ruder
Andrew KileyJason Svedeba Mark Zataveski Jamie DeMaria james Trautmann 
William McCarthy

Raymond Zellars Brian Fisher 
Kris Samaddar Men's Fencing Daniel Flores Women's Track
Robin Samaddar Stanton Brunner Men's Golf Christina Glorioso Rebecca Alfieri
Kevin Scott jordan Maggio john Bode Mark Hart Alan Shaw Monica Cox Joseph Monahan Michael Chaney Kimberly Kline Randy Torres Angela Hessler Rakesh Patel Christopher O'Connell Brian Koluch Emily Husted Conor Power Kristin Lechner Women's Swimming Lisa Junek Women's Fencing Women's Golf Kevin McAward jennifer Dahl Maureen Kelly Elizabeth Caruso Kathleen Cooper Carl Nesselhuf Cara Garvey Kristine Kramer Monica Wagner Sara Ruzzo Kimberly Orga Lorreine Horenkamp Sarah Riley Kathleen Shannon Jorge Rodriguez Michelle Lower Volleyball Joseph Tsombanidis Lisa Mancuso Nicole Coates Women's Tennis Christopher Wolf Marcia Powers Christy Peters Laura Schwab Haley Scott 
with 26 kills and 21 digs in a Florida, and Colorado. She also match-up with favored garnered numerous individual
Peters 
Minnesota. Going head to head awards. including MVP honors with player of the year Danielle in seven of the 11 tournaments
continued from page 40 
Scott of Long Beach State, the Irish entered during the her mark all over the Notre Peters won the duel of kills 24-past two years. Dame record book, ending her 23. 
Peters' association with Notre 

career as the all-time leader in Her game could not be mea­both kills (1651) and digs sured by statistics, however. Dame sports has not ended yet, (1626). Peters' athleticism on the court though, as she will jump to an­was dominating, a combination other championship contender Only two other players in of agility and power that made next fall. joining Chris 
Irish history can boast even her the most frightening player Petrucelli's Irish women's soc­1000 of each. Peters' legacy is to Irish opponents at the net. cer squad with her remaining not one of individual accom­She was also fueled by a drive year of NCAA eligibility. 
plishment only, though, as she to play with the best. was a primary catalyst in turn­
"I wasn't fully ready to get a ing a struggling program into a "You only get better playing full time job yet," laughs Peters. national power. teams that are equal or better, ''I'm going to pursue graduate 
and being able to compete with school, and figured I might as 
Ever self-effacing, Peters is them is the greatest feeling in well play soccer while I'm doing reluctant to give herself much the world," explained Peters. it." credit for the rise of Notre "Our team played to and often Dame volleyball to prestige, exceeded our potential, which Other to p senior athletes: 
noting that, "The improvement is admirable because teams of­Number 2 -Maria Panyi, 
of our program cannot be at­ten have the talent but their Fencing tributed just to our class (Peters record doesn'·t indicate it." The native of Hungary had a and fellow senior Nicole During the Peters era, Notre spectacular if brief two-year Coates), but when Debbie (head Dame was 116-30, including fencing career, leading the Irish coach Debbie Brown) came in, wins over top teams such as to a national title in 1993 with a 
it changed everything." Nebraska (twice), Illinois, 41-1 record. 
However, Brown realizes the impact that Peters had, noting 
·chael Ryder 

of her third-team All-America selection, "Statistically, Christy 
Sorry I can't be

had one of her best years ever, leading us to wins over some of with you on yourthe top programs in the coun­
graduation day.

try. We were very fortunate to have a player of her caliber in My thoughts our program." 
and heart 

"Peters was the superstar 
will be with you.

Notre Dame needed to claim it could compete with the peren­
Congratulations

nial powers, and she lived up to her potential, playing her best in the big matches. In helping Love, the Irish to the NCAA elite eight 
Nana

in 1993, Peters led the team 
This season Panyi went 74-2 While not a record setter, in the regular season, finishing Scott exhibited more determi­second in the NCAA champi­nation and spirit than any ath­onships. lete on campus, returning from 
the horrific bus accident in Number 3 -Letitia Bowen, 1992 to join her teammates in Basketball the pool this season. 
The lone senior on this years' third place WNIT finisher, Number 5 -Sara Hayes, Bowen was a force on the Softball boards for Notre Dame, finish­The senior catcher holds ev­ing her career as the leading ery Notre Dame career offen­Irish rebounder with 999 ca­sive record except for stolen reer caroms. bases. Hayes admirably han­
dled the Irish pitching staff, in­Number 4 -Haley Scott, cluding All-American Terri Swimming Kobata. 
**************************** 
FINAL REPORT CARD FOR 
*fA'IP!9fl*tf*IJfki:*!!'P*IJliJf* 
FRIENDSHIP 
WISDOM 
SPIRIT 
IMPACT 

+
CARING UNITY 
CONGRATULATIONS CLASS OF 1995 
Renee Balmert Carrie Connaughton Jeanne Curran Betsy Cutler Michelle Dolan Laura Empey Lindsey Esbensen Ruby Espinoza Erin Kelleher Shannon Maier Robin Mego Colleen Mickus Cynthia Poulakida Dana Scherle Tamra Skiles Theresa Swope Angela Walker 
The Observer/John Bingham 

Lamarr Justice (left) along with Jeremy Nau, Bobby Taylor, who h~s be.en drafted by the. PhiladeiJ?hia Eagles, and Jeremy Sample (above) will never wear a Notre Dame unrform 1n t~e future. Desp1te ~eart-filled performances by the seniors pictured, neither the basketball nor football teams hved up to expectations. 
CONGRATULATIONS 
BRIAN! 
We're all very proud of you and hope all of your dreams come truel 
Lots of Love, Mom, Dad, Nick and Gramps 

Colley 
continued from page 40 
any other current Irish athlete. 
In an area where lacrosse is little more than a game of iso­lated interest at best, the emer­gence of the Notre Dame lacrosse program into a na­tional power is admirable. Consider further the fact that coach Kevin Corrigan is not given any scholarships to work with. 
Fortunately, he has been blessed with Colley. 
"You've got to have guys to build a program with," Corrigan said. "Randy is defi­nitely one of those guys." 
While Corrigan was the archi­tect of the program, Colley was 
WilDWOOD INN 
BEl> .\NI> BREAh.I· \ST "Weekday Drscounts" 
MENDON COUNTY INN 440 W. MAIN • MENOON. Ml 49072 6161496·8132 
SANCfUARY at WIWWOOD 58138 M-40 • JONES. Ml49061 6161244·5910 
the foundation of the building. 
"I didn't come here for per­sonal accolades. I wanted to be a part of building a program. I couldn't have been happier with my decision." 
On the field, Colley has been nothing less than unstoppable. He has the speed, size and solid fundamentals which coaches love. In addition, he owns a shot that you can't coach. He doesn't just tickle the twine, he terrorizes it. 
His shot and his mere pres­ence opens up innumerable scoring chances for his team­mates as well. 
But more than just what he does on the field, Colley's off­the-field role is vital. 
Along with seniors such Mike Iorio, Billy Gallagher and Will Sutton, Colley is part of a nu­cleus of talent that spent four years (actually five for Colley and Sutton due to injuries) rais­ing not just their level of play, but also of leadership. They brought the intangibles neces­sary to make the Irish a force. 
Their dedication paid off last Saturday as they Irish defeated Duke to advance into the elite eight of the NCAA tournament for the first time in the school's history, achieving a long-stand­ing goal. 
"This was something we've .. been shooting for," Colley said. "We've come a step closer very year but this was the culmina­tion. It felt pretty good." 
Not surprisingly, Colley was the main reason tallying five of the twelve goals. 
It was only fitting that the man most responsible for the program's ascent was the brightest star in its shining moment. Anything Jess would be unimaginable. 
Other top senior athletes: 
2. 
Ray Zellars, football Probably the most likely to suc­ceed in the NFL, Zellars was a team leader, class act, and hell of a fullback. 

3. 
Bert Bader, soccer ­Overshadowed by the women, this goaltender Jed the Irish soccer team to an NCAA berth and broke the career save record. 

4. 
Craig DeSensi, baseball ­In an otherwise disappointing second season in Eck, this cap­tain had a career year, gar­nering first-team MCC honors. 

5. 
Jeff Goddard, boxing ­Winning his third Bengal Bout title this year, Goddard epito­mized the dedication of Notre Dame boxers. 



~ 
=~ 
years.~&
revenues 1n first 
quarter of 1l ps set 
new reconfs 1n ~ 
maLor geographic
regiOn. 
If you'n• a m·pnt mU(.ogt' gmduatP or haw nmr-tmu graduation p~UL'i,ju'it ~w our fax muulx•r a dingaling cuxl spnd your n~lUHP (on;~. •nd it by mill or E-Mail). 
CURRENT OPENINGS 
,Semiconductor Technical 
Sales Representative 
Ht1>n'Sl•nt '11 Sl.'micondu<1or mm­tx•Ju•nts at 11111ior Ph1mnic nuum­fat1tuws. KPy intl'nacp with t1l<r tomPJ's d(-sign mmnnmity on mit1n· pro(~ ~·.,ors, t·ontmliPrs, IlSI's, ASK's mul allv.uu·t'<l nwmory. Extt'Il'>iw tmining pmgnun of 12-18 months in I>allcl'i or lfou.,1on,11•x.a'i with rPlo­nllion to a 11 salt'S officp in a lllqjor city in North Anwrica Ex<x•llmt salmy, homL'i mul ('<U' plan. B.'YMS EE, Comput.Pr EnginPPring or <~llllplltPr Sdt'lll~' with hardwan• I~•rkgllltUUI. 
ASIC Designer 
Support mHI t>X<'<'Ution of A.'liC dPsigil'i at •mlior Tl ('UStonwrs.llin•ct tt'chnkal intPrfacP witl1 customt>r's dt>sign PnginPPring group. 12-18 months tPchnical trainmg in Dallas and/or a Custonwr DPsign ('pntPr. HPlocation to a [)psign ('pn!Pr or Dalla'i upon com­pll'lion. EX('!'llPnt salary m a vpry <W,mmk Pnvironnwnt. BS/MS
f.E or C'omputPr Enginf'Pring. 
Strategic Marketing
Assocw.te 
Work with product managt•rs to dPVPlop ;md pmpn'i!' !>1.ratPgtPs and hw;inPs.'i plm1s to takP pr<xlucts to nuu·k('(, dPwlop npw mm·kpts m1<1/or nf'w pmducts. Will dPwlop mark!'t­ing plcms to position pr<xlucts in mar­kPts. Mtl'>1 h!' ahlP tn initial!' plcms across multipl!' pr<xluct gmups that draw on thPir comhiiwd !>i.r<•ngt.hs. l'rognun/pmjpct nwJagPment ofelP­mmts of markPting or hm;iness plmt'i. Dalh-; or Ilow.;ton l!x·ations. B..'YMS EE, ( 'omputPr Engim>t•rii~g or (~omputPr Sdpm·p with hardwarp hackgtuund. fufrr MBA with t('<'h­nicaltmdPrgrdd. 
Apply Today! ForconfidPntial considl•ration{ sPnd your n•stunP to: MIIIW Staf 'ing Mana~errrexas ht'itnunPilts /PO. Box 6b530:3, MS S:l:l7/Dalla'i TX 752G5. Or fax to: 
(214) D97-:1844. E-Mail: SCPN @ msg.ti.com. 
An Equal Opportunity Employer WFION 
E XTE N Dl NG YOUR REACHTM 
~TEXAS 
INSTRUMENTS 
Congratulations "General" 


Jfwrs
Andrew DeKever 
&mky GktJ 7lrsfay GktJ 
~ /2.fXJIIIXJII!o6.fXJpm
Notre Dame Army ROTC 
l!kJooday 12.fXJ IIIXJII!oJfXJ flJlJ. 7/mnJar /lfXJ~WJioJJXIpm -Mom, Dad, Pete, Mary 
Class of 1995 
JrNky /2.fXJIKXIII/oJfXJpm ~ 10fXJOJII.Io4.fXJpm 
'lprxJinimeniJ :kilafle 
,,,,.~ etJ'Jt9if!ri7U-t!rt71tJ?ts -SU'Jt'nr/1 1995 

-
THE WORLD AWAITS YOUR BRILLIANCE. BLAZE YOUR TRAIL. WE ARE VERY PROUD OF YOUR ACCOMPLISHMENTS. 
WE LOVE YOU. MOM, DAD, DAVID, 
...
GRANDPA, GRANDMA &PHOEBE 

page 36 The Observer· FOUR YEARS IN REVIEW Friday, May 19, 1995 
The Top Ten Sports Stories 1991-1995 

November 15, 1993 

Grappling Gone 
Athletic Director Dick Rosenthal announced that the wrestling program · would be eliminated amid rumors of NCAA violations and a personal conflict between Rosenthal and head coach Fran McCann. 
April 13, 1992 The Streak Ends 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team tied North Carolina 0-0 in overtime to snap the Tar Heels' 92-game winning streak It was the third time in Irish history that a historic streak was 
snapped by an Irish team. 
October 3, 1994 
No.4 
lHE
EAST 

A Big Deal 
Athletic Director Dick Rosenthal announced dur­ing the summer of 1994 that Notre Dame would join the Big East Conference, aiding especially John MacLeod and the men's basketball team. 
August 30, 1994 AD Change 

Athletic Director Dick Rosenthal announced on August 1, 1994 that he would step down, effective as of August 1, 1995. Michael Wadsworth will be his replacement. 
August 30, 1994 


No. 6-Dreams Dashed, November 22, 1993 
Notre Dame's hopes of a national championship ended when David Gordon kicked the longest field goal of this career (41 yards) to erase a thrilling Irish comeback and give Boston College a 41-39 victory in the final game of the 1993 season. 
No. 7 -National Champions, March 23, 1994 
The Notre Dame fencing team came from behind on the final day of com­
petition to defeat Penn State and secure the first Notre Dame national 
chmpionship in any sport since 1988. 
No. 8-Last Minute Heroics, November 16, 1992 
Reggie Brooks' last minute two-point conversion catch lifted Notre Dame over Penn State, 17-16. It marked the final game of the series because of Penn State's decision to join the Big Ten Conference. 
No. 9-The 'Ideal' Man, April 26, 1993 
Washington Capital and former Irish hockey standout Dave Poulin was 
named as head coach to the Notre Dame hockey team weeks after Ric 
Schafer resigned. Poulin ranks fifth on the Notre Dame all-time scoring 
list, and is a 12-year veteran of the National Hockey League. 
No. 10-Gerber Goes the Distance, February 28, 1994 
Jeff Gerber became only the seventh boxer in Bengal Bouts history to win four straight titles with a unanimous decision over fellow senior John 

AP Photo 
Bradshaw in the finals. 

Ex-NHL star Dave Poulin was named new Notre Dame hockey coach in an effort to improve one of the only struggling Irish sporting programs. 
Friday, May 19, 1995 The Observer • A YEAR IN PICTURES page 37 


Above, left: Paul Mainieri and Dick Rosenthal answer ques­tions about Mainieri being the new baseball coach. Above, right: Maria Panyi led the Irish fencing team to a third place finish this season. Right: Haley Scott finishes a race. The senior was told she may never walk again, but came back to swim competi­tively for the Irish last year. Far Right: Nicole Coates jumps for a spike early on in the season. 
Congratulations, George Rau, '95 Notre Dame Graduate. Now you can finally lay back and rest on your laurels! {It's just as we suspected, the phone cord did replace the umbilical cord!) Call home often! 
Love, Mom, Dad, and Liz 


The past four years, sadly enough, have come and gone. However, the memories that both you and the remaining residents of this hall share with one another will last long after you depart from here, your home away from home. Each one of you has made a lasting impression upon this university, this hall, and those who proudly refer to themselves as Zahmbies. 
From the time of Freshman Orientation and those nerve--wracking days and nights spent feeling the wrath of 0 DIN, through four years of home football weekends (and numerous pre-­game festivities, for those of you who can remember them), ZITS, the Decade Dance, SYRs, community gatherings for prayer and mass in our chapel, Zahm athletic contests, late night conversation with Keenan and Cavanaugh Halls, and other unique activities that are not fit for print, and now concluding with this final and most special weekend, you have been a part of an experience that is unique to 1'~ otre Dame and Zahm Hall. 
We want to thank you for gladly sharing these special moments with us. Through these moments and your presence in our everyday lives, you have provided us with an example to follow ·as we continue on our own paths towards commencement. All the advice, time, memories, and fun that you shared will remain with us along the way and long afterward. 
All of us hope that as you embark on the rest of your lives, you leave here full of those same 
memories. We wish you the best of luck in all of you future pursuits, that success and happiness 
may be found wherever you go. Please remember where you came from and that you will always 
have a home within the cozy confines of Zahm. May God bless you. 
Love, The Men of Zahm 

P.S. SEUH! 
• 
-

page 38 
Streak 
continued from page 40 
soccer fans everywhere. But for the Irish, it was just a matter of following tradition. 
Notre Dame had been placed in the role of streak-stopper twice before. In 1957. the foot­ball team knocked off Oklahoma 7-0 to snap a 44­game win streak. And who can forget the 197 4 men's basket­ball upset of UCLA to stop their historic 88-game .-. stint. Following suit came naturally for the Irish. 
This tie was the first chink in North Carolina's armor in near­ly four years of collegiate soc­cer. It proved that the same team that had won nine straight national titles and twelve of the last thirteen was, indeed, made of human girls, not superhuman aliens. 
Before this game, the top­
ranked Tar Heels had never 
participated in an overtime af­
fair. 
Only five teams out of 92 even 
got within two goals of the pow­
erhouse. Naturally, it would 
seem by looking at the score­less tie that the Irish were play­ing defensive soccer. 
Not so. 

It was a game of constant charges and several scoring opportunities, especially early on for Notre Dame. The pres­sure on the Tar Heels started minutes into the game, when junior Rosella Guerrero faltered on a shot off a Cindy Daws crossing pass. 
North Carolina's Shelley Finger was there for the save. Shortly thereafter, a Daws shot ricocheted off the crossbar and over the goal. 
But the longer the teams played, the less offensive attack the Irish were able to muster. The deep bench of the Tar Heels kept their players fresh, while fatigue grew on Notre Dame in the extra period. 
North Carolina freely utilized 
an 18-player rotation. while 
Notre Dame coach Chris 
Petrucelli made just one re­
placement-junior Stacia 
Masters-into the normal 11­
person lineup. 

The fatigue showed in the fi­nal period when Guerrero suf­fered a sprained ankle just 4:04 into the first overtime period, forcing the defense to make up 
The Observer • SPORTS for Notre Dame's lack of offen­sive firepower. "We all played together and worked as a unit in the back," senior Tiffany Thompson said following the game. "I have to give the defenders credit." The concern going into the match was the inexperience of the defense, especially because of the previous injuries to starters Julie Vogel and Ashley Scharff. But their replacements, Kate Fisher and Amy Van Laecke, effectively shut down North Carolina's big guns, Debbie Keller and Danielle Egan. 
"They were unbelievable on defense,". Egan, an All­American said. "Notre Dame deserved it." 
A tie, that is. which was 
enough to make the Irish a rec­
ognized national power. It was 
the only blemish on Notre 
Dame's record until the na­
tional championship game, 
when the Tar Heels ended their 
cinderella run with a 5-0 win. 
But it was that one October 
day that was the real game of 
the season for the Irish. 
No goals were scored, but a 
streak was snapped, and colle­
giate soccer history was 
changed. 

Estela Apolinar Peggy Bailey Kala Boulware Brooke Brandes Michelle Briz Christine Chamberlin Kathy Christmas Kristin Fernandez Felicia Gallegos 
Friday, May 19, 1995 
Ann Lillie Elena Maene Michelle Martinez Katelyn McGuire Marce MeNeill Melanie Meigs Rachel Mitchell Maria Munoz Nkem Nwosa 
Julie Gong Erin O'Malley 

The Sports ,,, 
Now Open 
Kate Gregory Jennifer Picray 

Department wishes all 
Jennifer Hager Raquel Rocha

MINI STORAGE
the departing seniors 
Maureen Haggard Sam Spencer 

a safe and happy 
Jodi Hartwig Aimee Terry

All Sizes available 
Kataya Miroslava Bethany Thomas

career. 
Hernandez Katie Wiltrout

Stay in Shape!· 
Easy Access 
Amy Holthouser Margaret Zimmermann

Call 293-3863 
CQNGQATULATION8 
-
-


from 
~y 0 

"On the Concourse" 
Joyce Center  
COMMENCEMENT WEEKEND liOUQ&:  VI&IT OUQ &ALE QOOM!  
Thursday 9:00 a.m. -5:00 p.m. Friday 9:00 a.m. -5:00 p.m.  Gate 10 Joyce Center  
<£>aturday 9:00 a.m. -5:00 p.m. Cl~d <£>unday Monday 9:00 a.m. -5:00 p.m.  Thursday 10:00 a.m. -5:00 p.m. Friday 10:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m.  





Friday, May 19, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 39 
~=---------------------------------------~~~ 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM MIKE PETERS CLOSE TO HOME JOHN MCPHERSON 

BILL WATTERSON

CALVIN AND HOBBES 

DILBERT 
..

WE. NEED TO BOOST 
0 
() 
...

OUR RETURN-ON­
0
.. 
II!>

f.,S':IET~ R/1-.TIO 
.."' 

DON KIN0 OF TH5 uUNGLE 

ACROSS 28 Woolgather 54 Blissful locales 32 Toll 
55 Some Cadillacs 1 Blended 56 Miffed33 Ballerinadesserts Jeanmaire 57 Suddenly hits 

8 Nursery rhyme 34 Destroy
12 Trailblazed 36 Back from the 
14 "Crazy" singer DOWN 
shop15 Murmur 38 Mekong, for one 1 Dry sherry of 16 Figure in a 1971 Spain39 Bouncemystery 2 Land measures40 Under wraps 11 Lickety-split 3 Operating 
41 Bookstore visitor 
18 Suffered without­19 Guinness, e.g. 44 Song syllables 4 Conceivably 20 Opposite of 45 Jeweler's aid 5 Parts of 
runners 46 Some bridge bloomers 22 Hydras bids 6 Like a maple leaf 26 Sell-deprivation 52 Release 7 Posted 21 Notions. to 53 Arctic hunting 8 Seclusive 
Nicole grounds 9 Repeater, maybe 
-----------10 Construe ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 Abacus parts 
12 K1nd of tent __...,.,..,.r::-r,-, 13 Bred-in-the­bone ~~F+-'-1 14 Second drink ~::+:'-r.=-t:'-i 21 Message taker, e.g. 
~ 23 Theaters ~'-+"-1-':+::-4 24 Faithful, to a Scot 25 Good wood for 
-=+::-+=-E+.~ floors 28 Corn sugar 29 Actress Sue 
-Langdon 

~+--+~ 30 1771 ballad "-Robin Gray" 
LET.S EL1/"\INATE THE 5ECURITY DEPAP-.TMENT. TI-I"T WOULO CUT EXPENSES WHILE. ALLOWING FOR A BRISK. REDUCTION IN 
A55E.TS. 


48 First king of Phliasia, in myth 49 Venetian beach 50 Pianist Fleisher 51 Radiator sound 
31 Minim 33 Angry reaction 35 Pulitzer-winning 
writer Robertson 37 Red flares 38 Make out 
40 Screen Jean 41 Willie Dixon genre 42 Sonata finale 
0 
>­
~ 
~ ~ 
'0 
~ 
1/). .~ 
.. 
"!!
.. 
..:> 
::: 
Q 
... 
~ 

Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
SCOTT ADAMS 

WI-lEN 1\RE YOU PLANNING TO TE.LL I-II~ '10U WERE. JOKING 7 
) AFTER 1 FURNISH 1"\Y OE.N 
) 



..5-19 
With final exams In full swing, the administration brought out the cheat-sheet-sniffing dogs. 
Congratulations! 
to Ann Blum Steven Chavez 
Nancy Dunn 
Sarah Doran Ed lmbus Kenya Johnson Jonathan Jensen Tom Lillig Jason Kelly David Ring George Dohrmann Carolyn Wilkens Kyle Kusek Dave Hungeling Kelly O'Neill John Ryan Susan Marx Kristen Martina Jason Williams Jake Peters 
and to all of the graduating seniors on staff 
The Observer will miss you! 


Get a subscription to The Observer and have the latest Notre Dame and Saint Mary's news and sports delivered to you for only $40 per semester or $70 for the whole year. 
r-----------------------------------,
1 Name :Address _____________________________________ 
:  City _______  State  _____  Zip  _____  
I  
I  
I I I  Send this coupon and payment to: The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN  46556  

L-----------------------------------~ 
• 
--
-



SPORTS 
page 40 Friday, May 19, 1995 
• lAcROSSE 
A Program Builder 
Conference.

Notre Dame reaches 
None of this really mattered though, as the Irish knew they'd still be alive. They
level ofthe elite with 
were right. "There was never a doubt that we'd
tourney win over Duke 
win," said senior tri-captain RandyBy TIM SHERMAN 
Colley, who carried the Irish to a 12-10 
Associate Sports Editor 
upset victory in Durham, N.C in front of nearly 2, 500 fans. 
DURHAM, N.C. 

"No question about it, this is the
Not many expected the Notre Dame biggest win in Notre Dame lacrosse his­
lacrosse team to still be playing this 
tory," Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said. 
weekend, especially since the Irish had By virtue of the monumentous victory,to.travel to Duke in the first round of the the Irish will face Maryland tomorrow in NCAA tournament last Saturday. 
Byrd Stadium. 

The Irish had both a 0-4 mark in the "The whole lacrosse world expected atourney and against the Blue Devils, who Duke/Maryland rematch," senior mid­
were ranked 5th in the nation and 
fielder Jason Pett said. "We had some­champions of the nation's top confer­thing to say about that." 
ence, the ACC. The Irish weren't even The Irish didn't just have something to 
ranked in the top ten and came from the lowly Great Midwest Lacrosse Irish players Brian Gilfillan (17 ), Chris Bury (13) and _Burke Hayes celebrate as time see IRISH I page 32 expires in Notre Dame's 12-10 victory over Duke in the f1rst round of the NCAA tourney. 



award.-The senior from Solana Beach, Calif. left 
see PETERS I page 34 



SPORTS STORY OF THE YEAR 
Streak Snapper 
By MIKE NORBUT that makes us
The Notre Dame 
Sports Editor think of all the 
women's soccer team ways we would 
It was a bittersweet 
have done it," end to an arduous halts North Carolina's senior Jodi afternoon. Hartwig said fol­
After facing off with 92-game win streak lowing the game. 
top-ranked North But this time, the Carolina for nearly three hours last 
Irish made history by kissing their sis-October, the Notre Dame women's 
ter. soccer team walked off the field with a 
By landing the scoreless tie with the 0-0 overtime tie. Tar Heels, Notre Dame snapped their It's not the outcome that a team rel­92-game winning streak, one of the 
ishes in under any circumstances. A longest streaks in collegiate sports his­tie is considered worse than a loss, 
tory.and always makes a team think of how 
It was a shock to North Carolina and a win could have been salvaged. "We were so close to winning and 
see STREAK I page 38 
"-· MAL£ Anun OF THE YEAR 
Randy Colley 
By TIM SHERMAN Associate Sports Editor 
A media guide can tell you a lot about an athlete. 
For example, the Notre Dame lacrosse media guide could tell that Randy Colley stands 6-foot-2 and weighs 194-lbs., the ideal size for an attackman. It could describe Colley's greatest games, detail­ing how many points we had against whom and when. It could also make you aware of the fact that Colley is the Irish career leader in points (267), goals (170), and assists. 
The one thing that does not come across on paper about an athlete is the overall impact he has had on his team during his career. · Photos by The Observer/Jake Peters and Seott Mendenhall 
Even though Colley's impact on the has happened to the Irish since ColleyNotre Dame lacrosse program is immea­has arrived in South Bend. Only then surable on paper, just watching the way will it be apparent that Randy Colley has he plays the game of lacrosse speaks had more of an impact on his team than 
volumes of his importance. Better yet, just step back and take a look at what see COLLEY I page 35 

-
Christy Peters 
By TIM SEYMOUR 
Associate Sports Editor 
It was a familiar sight on fall evenings in the Joyce Center. A shock of red hair ris­ing above the net, elevating higher and higher with each second. The ball was set too high, an observer might think, un­reachable, an error by Shannon Tuttle or Janelle Karlan or whatev~r Irish player was trying to assist. However, the setter knew something that the casual fan didn't. The star with the red hair could get to anything. 
Certainly her flaming hair set her apart, as she looked more like an Irish step dancer than a volleyball player. But ·Christy Peters' legacy on the Irish vol­leyball court transcends her striking appearance, earning her the 1995 
Observer Female Athlete of the Year 

NCAA Tournament Action Lacrosse Quarterfinals Notre Dame at Maryland, Saturday, 1 p.m. 
For a look at the top ten 

at Byrd Stadium on the campus of the University ofMaryland 
sports stories over the past
Softball Regionals 
four years, seepage 36.

Notre Dame vs. Illinois-Chicago Saturday, 2 p.m. at the University ofMichigan 





