
Friday, November 17, 1995 • Vol. XXVII No. 59 THE_INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
'Belles' nickname creates crisis of identity for SMC 
By CAROLINE BLUM Saint Mary's Spons Editor 
Saint Mary's could have a nickname a lot worse than "beautiful women." It could be the "useless nuts" like Ohio State. Or the Grinnell 
College Poets. Or,-----------­
the Akron Zips. Instead. Saint Mary's students are the "Belles." 
The definition of a "Belle" is a beautiful woman. But the word brings to mind morn than Snoopy's girl­frimHI. If you've mentioned the word "Belle" on the Saint Mary's eampus lately, you might notice a tinge of controver-
What Do You Think About Saint Mary's Name Change? 
The Observer surveyed 50 SMC students about their feelings on Saint Mary's current name. This is what they said ... 
48% 

46% 

6% 
~ 
lt_,.O.oy u,,o!l,o,o,. u,O'ec,Q'.. 
sy. This eon t ro-.________, ___.:.!~LJ versy encircles topies ranging anywhere from tradition to femi­nism. 
It lmgan with the birth of Saint Mary's College, esealated with a popular song, and went to a vote in 1977. Today. the Women's Center is looking for yet another alternative to the "Belles contro­
Vt~rsy." 
"My opinion is that the nickname of any college or univt~rsity dcms not automatically instill pride into 1111 individual," senior softball star Laura Hkhtnr said. "nor is it representative of the men­tality of the campus. The fact is that pride and ownership must come from within." 
The song "The Belles of Saint Mary's" began the tradition of the college's nickname long hefom tlw days of Bing Crosby. Although no offi­cial name was eoined. Saint Mary's students often referred to themselves as "The Belles of Saint Mary's." 
When Angela Athletic Facility was built in 1977. however, Saint Mary's decided that the lime had come to devise an official name for their athletes. 
"The students voted on the name," Cushwa­l.tdghton Library Archivist Sr. Rosalnen Dunleavy said. "Then~ were three choices: the Saints, the Angels. or the Belles. Because of the song, the students had called themselves the Belles for years, but I did not think that they would select it 
see BELLES I page 6 

The land before time 

Dying a Slow Death 
· Scientists theorize that an asteroid collision propelled largequantities of dust and other pollutants into the atmosphere,' thus blocking the penetration of sunlight. This starved and 
ultimately kined the dinosaurs. 
-. ''~ 

Rigby's Theory 
Rigby contends that a vorcanic eruption created other environmental changes that both decreased the levels of oxygen present'in the atmosphere and sparked the greenhouse effect. Dinosaurs were inadequately equipped to adapt, therefore becoming extinct. 
The Observer/Christopher Mullins 
While the current accepted theory concerning the death of the dinosaurs claims that an asteroid caused an imme­diate extinction, Notre Dame professor Keith Rigby has proposed his own theory which states that a volcanic eruption created gradual changes in the composition of the atmosphere. The theory further proposes that the dinosaurs could not cope with the changes in the amount of oxygen in the air. Their sur­vivability continued to decrease until they became extinct. 

Rigby presents an alternative theory for death ofdinos 
By HEATHER COCKS Assistant Nows Ediror 
E
verything seemed so much less complicated when we were young. Between Sesame Street and our picture books, we had a pretty clear concept of how dinosaurs died out: the Earth changed, and they instantly disap­peared to make way for the human race. 
Unfortunately, nothing in science is so straightforward, and extinc­tion is no exception. Though sever­al ideas have emerged as preva­lent, none are considered irrefutable. 
The efforts of Associate Professor of Civil Engineering and Geological Sciences J. Keith Higby, combined with those of three associates, have yielded yet another theory to be added to the mix. 
In 1982, the same year Higby began his tenure at Notre Dame, a hypothesis developed that is cur­rently the most universally accept­ed. 
"Basically, it is centered on the belief that an asteroid hit the Earth, therefor~ forcing massive amounts of dust and trash into the atmosphere. Living things either froze or starved until they died out," said Rigby, who referred to this as the Extra-Terrestrial The­ory. 
According to Rigby, not all scien­tists were completely enamored with this explanation; others had postulated that a large-scale vol­canic eruption expelled similar pol­lutants. "This is no ordinary event. Mount St. Helens pales in com­parison," he said. Higby and his closest colleagues believed that, rather than causing immediate extinction, the eruption resulted in environmental changes that slowed the process, prolonging it for a period of approximately 500,000 
see THEORY I page 4 




Is it the shoes? ND coaches decide what fits players 
By BILL CONNOLLY 
Nows Writer 
Pat Garrity will begin a new season with the men's varsity basketball team by putting on his pair of Nike sneakers while Derrick Mayes will don a pair of Henboks bnfore practicing with the foot­ball team. 
This diiTcrence in the brands of their sneakers sets Notre Dame apart from other universities, such as the University of Kentucky, at which all var­sity teams must usc sneakers made by a eompany that holds a contract with the university. 
Athletic eoaehes at Notre Dame can deeide on a sneaker contract on his or her own since Notre Dame does not hold such a contract with any shoe manufaeturer. 
The Athletic Department, however, does hold a contract with the Champion company, which outfits most varsity teams in their uniforms. Companies sign contracts with Notre Dame coaches for the use of sneakers, gym bags, and other apparel, but these contracts are not department-wide. 
However, according to Melissa Conboy, associate director of athletics, the athletic department has been nego­tiating with both Nike and Reebok on a contract that would make one of these companies the sole supplier of sneakers for the women's varsity teams. 
Coaches sign contracts such as this one to promote the growth of their pro­grams and to supplement their personal incomes. 
Unlike other colleges, the Notre Dame athletic department does not negotiate contracts on behalf of its coaches. One university which does negotiate with companies on behalf of their coaches is the University of Kentucky. Many of these contracts involve Kentucky bas­ketball coach Rick Pitino. 
In the case of Kentucky, the company which supports Pitino signs an agree­ment with the university. 
The university then gives money received through the contract as part of Pitino's salary. The result is a salary for 
see SHOES I page 4 



-----------------------------~---------------­
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, November 17, 1995 
• INsmE CoLUMN 
Less than ideal... 
Studying abroad. The most broadening and edu­
cational semester of my life, and the best decision I have made in my 21 years. 
The benefits of the London program are too many to espouse. Plus, through many late night discussions we have determined that it's 

impossible to explain the experience anyway. You really just have to be here. 
Our living quarters are in one of the best locations in London. Just minutes from the center of the city, pleasing to the eye and a community aspect to rival any dorm on cam­pus, the flat buildings are even co-ed. 
However, there are some aspects of our domestic life here in London make Notre Dame dorms look like the Ritz. Not that everyone here in the program has had prob­lems; in fact, some people's flats are really quite nice. But next time you complain about the roaches in your dorm, you should see how big they grow 'em in London. 
Every day my flatmate Kerri performs the morning ritual of washing the roaches down the tub drain before she hops in the shower. The poor little things never get a chance. A short imprisonment in a vast porcelain wasteland, only to meet a watery death. 
Speaking of showers, water pressure is a beautiful thing. Of course, living on the fourth floor reduces our pressure. But every shower comes equipped with a water pump that increases the shower from a trickle to a sight spray. On a good morning, or one when you have trouble waking up, you can some­times get a ripple of electricity coursing through your veins from the pump. 
After your shower, you stumble into the kitchen to make your breakfast and send the roaches scurrying as you open the cupboard door. Putting food in plastic sealable bags helps. Hey, crumbs are expensive here. 
Then you reach for the fridge, which is probably already open anyway since the door no longer seals, and it sits on a downward slant in the floor. None of our food stays cold enough to keep from spoiling for longer than a day or two. To combat this, we alternate between storing our milk in the freezer and refrigerator. If you forget to defrost your milk and you need it right away, you have problems. I reached another all time low as I was forced to use a cheese grater to grate frozen milk into my tea one evening. 
If you've just been to the grocery shore and spent an exorbitant amount of money for your weekly food and plan on doing some baking with your not-yet-spoiled ingredients, you might want to try another flat's oven. Ours doesn't get hot enough to bake things in the center, although it is perfectly adequate for burning them on top. My flatmate Katie made me a beautiful cake for my 21st birth­day. She handed me the knife to do the hon­ors, and, as I sliced into the cake, the center oozed out all over the table. Katie was horri­fied, although it wasn't her fault. She is the only one in the flat who can actually cook, even if she is a vegetarian. 
Aside from the iron burns on our floor, the lack of eating utensils, the screenless win­dows, and a couch that even Zahm guys would have thrown out, I love my flat. This morning as I went to open my underwear drawer, the front panel fell off. I guess I'll just set it with the two kitchen cabinet doors, the towel ring and toilet paper holder that met with a similar fate. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• TODAY'S STAFI 
News Jamie Heisler Tom Moran Sports Andy Cabiness Graphics Chris Mullins 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhr-Associa[ed Press. All reproJuction righrs are reserveJ. 
Viewpoint Michael O'Hara Production Belle Bautista David Diaz Lab Tech Dave Murphy 

Liz Foran Associate News Editor 
• Wmu.u AT A GLANCE 
APEC agreement signed, but they're already disagreeing 
OSAKA, Japan APEC t d• t in his place. 
Pacific Rim trade ra 10g par ners In the APEC talks, 
officials reached pre-~--~-------~~~::i:::r:===r==:::;------7-r~~l China and South 
liminary agreement D 
New Zealand 

Thursday on princi-0 pies for setting up a 11 vast regional free-11 trade zone, but they 11 clashed over just what those guidelines D ~w. D 
Their argument on !! the same day the agreement was made illustrates how divid­ed the 18 APEC members are over the rate of dropping trade barriers. 
The Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation agreed to adopt a sweeping free-trade program at its summit last year in Indonesia. At their forum this week, APEC minis­ters tried to hash out what they mean by free trade, and how quickly to start doing it. 
The forum is to be capped with a weekend summit of leaders -except for President Clinton, who was needed at home. Vice President AI Gore will attend the summit 
Britain gets set for Di revelations 

LONDON 
England is gearing up for the next chapter in the ongoing saga of the royal family. Princess Diana's recent interview with the BBC will be broad­cast by the British network next week. The revealing interview is widely regarded as Diana's revenge for her husband's nationally broadcast confes­sion last year that he had strayed from 

his marriage vows. Meanwhile, the National Grid, which runs Britain's electric transmission system, said it was preparing for a surge when the nation switches on its tea kettles after watching the interview Monday night. They reported that demand surged 700 megawatts right after the screening of Prince Charles' interview last year. Studies indicate the surge mainly comes from the tea ket­tles. ABC News got the U.S. rights to the interview-for $1 million, according to London's Evening Standard newspaper. 

Gift exchange in space 

SPACE CENTER, Houston 
It was Happy Birthday, Merry Christmas and Happy New Year all rolled into one Thursday aboard the world's largest spacecraft. The eight men on the orbiting At­lantis-Mir complex -the joined U.S. space shuttle and Russian space station-exchanged an "astro-cosmo-gui­tar" and other gifts and enjoyed a full-course steak din­ner. For the three cosmonauts who have been cooped up inside Mir for 2 1/2 months, with 3 1/2 more to go, it was a welcome diversion. Atlantis arrived Wednesday; it will separate and leave on Saturday. The astronauts and cos­monauts took a break from lugging supplies back and forth between the spaceships for some quality time together. The Atlantis crew presented the cosmonauts with plaques, blue golf shirts emblazoned with shuttle­Mir emblems, a collapsible classical guitar with a bat­tery-operated headphone amplifier and a country music tape. The five astronauts, in return, got medals, lapel pins and Russian identification cards. 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon. Friday, Nov. 17. Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C> 1995 AccuWeather, Inc. Pressure ~ 
H L 6J ESI !TIJ 0 ~ ~ {) L...J. 0 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STdRM$ FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY VIii AssociB/sd Ptass 
Atlanta 61 46 Dallas 71 44 Milan. IN 42 32 Baltimore 44 31 Denver 72 36 Minneapolis 40 
25 
~ ~ 8 
51

Boston 41 Hibbing. MN 38 New Orleans 74 30 24 
Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

Chicago 37 31 Los Angeles 73 58 New York 43 34 Columbus 42 34 Miami 77 66 Philadelphia 40 32 
Indonesia 
Singapore 
Malaysia 
Thailand 
Brunei Philippines Hong Kong 
IE 
ID 
IE 
Dl 
1m 
m 
I& IIll 


Friday, Nov.17 

achieving free trade-2010 for advanced countries and 2020 for the rest. The U.S. trade representative, said all countries have made a "commitment" to these dates. 
His counterpart from Malaysia disagreed. Trade minis­ter Rafidah Aziz said those years are simply "indicative targets." 

FDA to rule on new fat substitute 
ALEXANDRIA, Va. 

Government scientists are trying to decide if it's safe to eat the first artificial fat that could take every bit of artery-clogging oil out of potato chips without hurting the taste. Olestra is a synthetic chemical made out of sugar and vegetable oil. It looks like regular fat but is indi­gestible. It passes straight through the body, never get­ting a chance to clog arteries. Manufacturer Procter & Gamble Co. says olestra could help Americans dramati­cally cut their consumption of fat. But critics say olestra is dangerous. that it acts as a laxative and robs the body of nutrients. Nutrition experts debated on Thursday whether the Food and Drug Administration should let olestra be sold, a decision the agency's top food advisers will formally make Friday. "We have done the most rig­orous study of a food ingredient ever seen by the FDA," said researcher director Keith Triebwasser. "Olestra can be safely consumed and it tastes good." Proctor & Gamble notes that it has tested olestra in 8,000 people, making it the most studied food ingredient ever. 

Miss Nigeria leaves pageant 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa 
Miss Nigeria withdrew from the Miss World beauty pageant Thursday, after protests against her govern­ment's execution of nine dissidents, organizers said. Human rights groups, trade unions and the government of the South African province where the pageant is being held demanded that it expel Toyin Raji, 23, in a show of solidarity against Nigeria's military rulers. Pressure led to Raji's withdrawal hours after she was voted Miss Personality by fellow contestants at the Sun City resort. It wasn't clear whether Raji left voluntarily. Miss World is to be chosen Saturday night from among contestants from 88 countries. The winner receives $78,000 in prize money, plus endorsement contracts and entertainment opportunities. The government of Nigerian dictator Gen. Sani Abacha has suffered a series of largely symbolic punishments since it rejected international appeals and hanged playwright Ken Saro-Wiwa and eight other dissi­dents last Friday. 
Korea led the battle 
to keep some tariffs 
in areas such as agri­
culture. Those coun­
tries and Japan fear 
a flood of cheap food 
imports from other 
APEC countries such 
as the United States. 
In the end, the 
group agreed that 
free trade parame­
ters should be flexi­
ble. But countries 
favoring free trade 
expressed concern 
that the "flexibility" 
clause could be used 
by countries to keep 
markets closed. 
A spat emerged AP over the dates for 

4,Q,~pQ,Q 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice V1a Associated Press GraphicsNet 



The Notre Dame Bookstore's Annual Christmas Book Sale! 


25% __OfiAll.-: 

Hardbound Trade Books -Children's Books 
Computer Reference Book's 
Many Other Specially Priced Titles 
Free Gift Wraping ! 

The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
"on the campus" 

Open Monday -Saturday 9 a.m. -5 p.m. 

• CAMPUS BRIEF 
Organist Craig Cramer, associate professor of music at the University of Notre Dame, will perform a recital of organ works by Johann Sebastian Bach at 8 p.m. Sunday in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
The recital is the seventh in a series Cramer will perform of works by the composer, and is free and open to the public. 
Cramer holds degrees from Westminster Choir College in Princeton, New Jersey. and the Eastern School of Music in Rochester, New York. where he earnfld a doctorate in organ performance and he also re­ceived the prestigious Per­former's Certificate in Organ. 
Cramer has studied with Hussell Saunders, William Hays, James Drake, and. in Paris, Andre Marchal. He has won several competitions, including the Alexander McCurdy Competition in Organ Performance at Westminster Choir College and the National Organ Competition in Fort Wayne, Ind. 
Among performances in 35 states and in Belgium, Canada and Germany. Cramer has ap­peared as a soloist with the Toledo Symphony. the South Bend Chamber Orchestra. the Notre Dame Chamber Orches­tra, and the Eastman Philhar­monic. 
Til£• Departmetlt of Music Faculty Artist Series presents 
CRAIG CRAMER 
ORGANIST 
J>cJjimlling the organ lllllsic of fo/Jan/1 Sebastian Bach 
(1685-1750) 

8:00p.m. 

Sunday, November 19 The Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Free and open to the public. 
He recently performed the complete organ works of Bach in a series of 18 concerts throughout Indiana using dis· tinguished mechanical-action organs. . 
In the summer of 1992 Cramer recorded a collection of 20th century French music at the Cathedral in Angouleme, France, and that recording is now available on the ARKAY label. His next European tour will be in England and Scotland in May­June, 1996. 
Cramer frequently performs duo recitals with his wife·, organist Gail Walton. 
If you see news happening, call The Observer at 1-5323. 
rou t~in~ it'J Cettin~ Col~ln 
Better start thinking about 
SPRING BREAK 
Act now before Thanksgiving and all available spots are gone. 
Earlv Bird specials Call Charlene Eatinger at 271-8346 

standing weather cycles. Weather changes at the end of the last ice age caused the for­mation of river deltas along the Gulf Coast; this in turn led peo· ple to settle in these areas in order to exploit the natural resources, said Wilkerson. 
According to Wilkerson, this pattern of settlement encour· aged the establishment of large urban areas such as El Pital. the largest pre-Colombian pop­ulation concentration on the Gulf. 
"Public and ceremonial architecture tended to be mas­sive," said Wilkerson. His team has determined that the con­struction of El Pital's larger buldings pre-dates that of the smaller structures. which is a reversal of the trend commonly exhibited by ancient civiliza· tions. Earth and fired clay were the primary building materials; stone was rarely used. 
Private homes were placed on raised earthen mounds to protect them from the frequent flooding of the River Nautla. A system of sophisticated canals existed within the area for use in transportation and flood control, said Wilkerson. He compared the annual flooding to that of the Nile River. 
Like the Nile, the Nautla deposits a layer of silt over its flood plain every year. An accumulation of silt 2 to 2.5 meters in depth covers the site of Wilkerson's study, making excavation difficult. Moreover, the area is covered by a thick blanket of banana and citrus plantations, which further hin­ders Wilkerson's researchers. 
In order to avoid these prob­lems, the research team uses sophisticated satellite equip­ment along with traditional ter­restrial testing to map the area. Their techniques allow them to record information about the site without having to destroy the crops of local plantation owners, Wilkerson stated. 
The maps of the area that the team constructed show that defensive fortifications were found on the outskirts of El Tajin, an important archeologi­cal site north of El Pital, sug­gesting tense relations between the two cities. 
Wilkerson continued with evi­dence of similarities in the art­work of the two cities, especial­ly depictions of their rain god. The stylistic commonalities point to a cultural exchange between the civilizations. There is also evidence that El Pital had trade relations with Teotihuacan, another impor­tant city of ancient Mexico, said Wilkerson. 
Around 500 A. D .. the cloud cover around El Pital increased, leading to an excess of moisture in the soil. This combined with massive flood­ing on the Nautla river to cause crop failure, bringing about a major population decrease around El Pital. 
Shortly before the rise of the Aztec empire, El Pital experi­enced a rp,surgence in popula­tion. Then. in the late fifteenth century, the area became a tributary of the Aztec empire. According to Wilkerson, 80,000 manloads of tribute were annu­ally carried to Tenochtitlan, the Aztec capital. 
In 1519. the Spanish landed at Villa Hica de Ia Vera Cruz. bringing with them disease such as small pox and influen­za which, along with malaria, were the main contributors to another plunge in population . By 1573, the number of people along the coast was reduced to zero. "Nobody there today has a direct tie to El Pita!, " said Wilkerson. 
• SECURITY BEAT 
Mon., Nov. 13th 

1:34 p.m. An off campus stu­dent reported being approached In the C02/B02 parking lot by a male black. The subject was 
·asking for money to pay a fee for Security to unlock his car door. 
2:11p.m. A Pasquerilla East resident reported receiving harassing telephone calls. 
Tues., Nov. 14th 

9:19p.m. Security transported 
an off-campus student to St. 
Joseph Medical Center for treat­
ment of a sports Injury. 
11 :02 p.m. A Flanner Hail resi­dent was transported by Security to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a sports injury. 
Weds., Nov. 15th 

8:05 a.m. A South Bend resi­dent was cited fro speeding on Edison Rd. 
2:44 p.m. An Alumni Hail resi­dent was transported by Security to the Student Health Center for treatment of a sports Injury. 
8:45 p.m. Security transported a Pasqueriila West resident to the Student Health Center for treatment of a sports injury. 
11:15 p.m. A South Bend resi­dent was cited for speeding on Douglas Rd. 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Friday, November 17, 1995 
He went on to say that mam­formerly of the U.S. Geological mals could more efficiently use Survey in Denver; and Profes­



Theory Congress GOP agrees
the amounts of oxygen avail­sor Richard Hengst, of Purdue 
continued from page 1 
years. 
This prompted their investi­gation into fossil records they believed would contradict this idea. They analyzed bubbles contained in fossilized amber in order to assess the atmospheric oxygen levels during the pro­posed time period over which extinction occurred. 
"We wanted to understand the environmental factors affecting life during this half­million year interval," says Higby. 
"Currently, the air is about 21 percent oxygen; we found that during the dinosaurs' life, levels topped 35 percent," he added. Further study of the amber indicated that during the post­eruption period, the total oxy­gen supply was depleted by as much as one-fourth. 
The "survivability" of certain groups, such as the dinosaurs, declined, while mammals and other creatures, such as lizards, crocodiles, and sala­manders, continued to diver­sify. 
Rigby and his partners at­tributed this in part to the effi­ciency of their breathing sys­tems. "Dinosaurs, in order to function, must reside in an at­mosphere that is 33-35 percent oxygen; their inefficient respi­ratory system combined with a high metabolic need for oxygen created problems when levels of the gas in the air plum­meted." 

Shoes 
continued from page 1 
Pitino worth over $600,000 a year. 
Through the contract, Pitino must outfit his team in the com­pany's sneakers, and also must appear in advertisements for the company. 
At Notre Dame, a coach's salary is paid for by the Uni­versity without the assistance of the sneaker company with which the coach has a contract. Conboy believes that this is cor­rect since coaches should not receive higher salaries than most professors. 
However, a company can of­fer a contract of any amount they wish when dealing directly able to them, and were there­fore relatively unaffected by the changing composition of the air. 
These findings supported the Theory of Faunal Selectivity: some animals emerged from the event unscathed, while oth­ers suffered. 
Additional consequences were an acceleration of the greenhouse effect and a drop in sea level. Of the 10-30 million cubic kilometers of volcanic de­bris, one percent was carbon dioxide. Rigby adds, "The lower sea level contributed to the un­covering of large deposits of carbon that were, in effect, se­questered in the shallow ocean floor. 
Once exposed, it oxidized and became carbon dioxide." This augmented the already sky­high amount of carbon dioxide present in the atmosphere; Rigby maintains that the bios­phere was unable to cope. "The greenhouse effect was acceler­ated, causing a monumental increase in temperature," he said. 
Rigby and his associates have presented their research con­tinually at meetings of the Geo­logical Society of America. Their findings will be published for the first time in January. 
He emphasizes the teamwork that contributed to each discov­ery. "I have not been doing this alone. I have had very capable collaborators." Robert Sloan, senior professor at the Univer­sity of Minnesota; Gary Landis, 
with the coach. Notre Dame President Father Edward Mal­loy, must approve of all con­tracts coaches sign with com­panies in order to satisfy NCAA rules. 
Lucrative contracts can still be signed under this format. At Duke University, head basket­ball coach Mike Kryczewski signed a multi-year contract worth nearly one million dollars a year. 
At Notre Dame, coaches usu­ally make contracts on an an­nual basis. Since a team can get better or worse over the course of a season, receiving positive or negative publicity, the terms of contracts need to differ from year-to-year. For example, former men's basket­ball coach Digger Phelps switched from Pony to Nike 
c.o~e .learn the ~trategies that have helped students of sill diSCiplines take fmal & comprehensive exams... 
Exam-Taking Strategies in Graduate School 
Prese~tatio!l &discussion led by Dr. Dominic Vachon, from the Umvers1ty Counseling Center, will cover: 
l. Ove:rcoming "Academic Choking" & performance anxiety; 
2. 
Techniques to improve concentration & performance; 

3. 
Org~~izing t~oug~ts under pressure; 

4. 
Avo1d1ng the Anx1ety Contagion" spreading through your program. 


Date: Sunday, November 19 P.lace: Fischer-O'Hara Grace Community Ctr T1me: 4pm-5pm 
Come learn what works from students who have already succeeded in your program! 
~by A8::11er.Q1Wa<nee Residonces. lle ~eo..-ing Clr. & Campus IAinislry 
University, North Central, are his key colleagues. "We com­plement each other's abilities nicely, and have had the most positive and productive working relationship," Rigby stated. 
The imminent publication of their ideas in no way repre­sents a lull in the research of Rigby and his partners. In China, they have investigated a multitude of fossilized eggs that are evidence that dinosaurs survived there well beyond the supposed date of total extinc­tion. 
"We plan to delve into their coal deposits in search of more fossilized amber to build upon our findings for that area," he stated. 
In the meantime, Rigby looks forward to the continued inclu­sion of Notre Dame students in his work. Previously, Rigby's team had taken three students to Montana to investigate it as a potential site of the volcanic eruption, and he has received approval from the University to continue doing so. "In addition to Montana, we plan to take students, mostly Science or En­gineering majors, to China," Rigby noted. In addition to "the opportunity for students to be on the cutting edge of science," the experience can culminate in the publication of the partici­pants' findings. 
"This idea of their increased involvement is very exciting to me," he said "We have an enor­mously healthy respect for the Notre Dame students." 
sneakers after his teams gar­nered more publicity and Nike became more popular . 
Currently, the most lucrative contracts are signed by basket­ball coaches since basketball sneakers are extremely popular with the public. The sneakers, supplies, and supplemental in­come these contracts provide for coaches benefit the compa­nies' image in the eyes of the public. 


to liinit student loans 
By CURT ANDERSON 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Republicans in Congress agreed Thursday to limit the government's direct lending program for college students, a move Democrats contend will enrich bankers at the expense of 1.9 million students. 
The agreement, which is part of the GOP bill that would bal­ance the budget by 2002, would save $1.6 billion over seven years by limiting the program to 10 percent of all student loans. The House initially want­ed to scrap the program alto­gether, while the Senate sought a 20 percent cap. 
Nancy Kassebaum, a Kansas Hepublican who has led Senate negotiators, said Congress never intended for the direct lending program to supplant guaranteed student loans, which are made through banks and other lenders. 
"I remain concerned about the risk the direct loan program poses to taxpayers and that is why I believe that Congress is being fiscally responsible by demanding to see how it works before expanding it," Kassebaum said. 
This year, about 2.5 million students at 1,350 schools participate in the direct pro­gram, in which the Department of Education bypasses middle­men by making loans to the students. Most students in direct lending programs would still be able to finance their z through the guaranteed student loan program, but Democrats say that involves more delay and allows less flexible repay­ment terms. 
Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D­Mass .. said cutting down the size of the direct lending pro­gram is "a bonanza for big banks," potentially bringing them billions of dollars in new business. 
Democrats said the cap would cut 1.9 million loans and force 1,000 schools from the pro­gram. The proposal retains the six-month grace period during which interest is not charged. 


Friday, November 17, 1995 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 5 
Pope urges unification for Ukrainian Catholics 
By DANIEL WAKIN 
Associarcd Pross 
VATICAN CITY 

Heealling their "tragic perse­cution" under communism, Popn John Paul II urged Catholics in Ukraine to pursue n1ligious rec­onciliation w i t h Orthodox Christians. 
The pope said that with their "new­found free­dom." Catholies in Ukraine should serve as an example of eooperation with the region's Orthodox majority. 
The message was the latest in what has beeome a major themfl for John Paul as thfl new millennium nears: unity among Christians. 
In the backdrop is tension lwtwefln Homan Catholic and Orthodox authorities in post­communist Europe. 
John Paul's mBssage carne in an apostolic IBtter dated Nov. 


.~ ~~JmH9 ' (W~ off~r discounts for NO, SMC students/)  
Rood1/dt Strvlct • Jump1tart1 • Futl Dtllverlt1 Tlrt Changing • Wrtcktd Auto Tow•  
1 Only 2 minutes from campus/ , We have the lowest rlces In town, and are always there when~you need us, 24 hours ' a day! We accept du·cks and credit cards!  

12 and released by the Vatican Thursday to mark the 400th anniversary of the Union of Brest. 
The 1596 agreement united several million Ukrainian Orthodox believers with the Roman Catholic Church. 
The Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church, as it is now called, preserves Eastern rites and customs. 
There are about 5 million Ukrainian Catholics, with about a fifth of them living outside Ukraine. 
The church was forcibly merged by Stalin into the gov­ernment-controlled Orthodox Church. 
Clerics were shot and imprisoned and church prop­erty seized by the communist government. 
Freedom for the church eame with Ukraine's indepen­dence after the fall of the Soviet Union. 
Taking note of the "tragic persecution which ... (took) place under the atheistic regime," the pontiff said mem­bers of the Ukrainian church "offer us a magnificent lesson in fidelity even at the price of life itself." 
At a news conference, Cardi­nal Achille Silvestrini alluded to the conflict between Orthodox and Catholic authori­ties in Ukraine over property and wealth seized under communism. 
"This situation is not over, but it has improved," he said. Silvestrini heads the Vatican department for Eastern churches. 

'j\ SUCCESS! GLORJOCSLY COLORFUL, A LA~MARK FEAT" 
JJ'H' ,h,.im Tllf Xf\\ \'OR~ 11\tf ~ 
'A lli111lATEAR,'\SA P!ACF OF HO~OR A\fO\JG DIS~EYS FlL\1 SllJ~\JERS!" 
R:.h,.J (,uh.~ ilMF \I·\G·\~1'\F 
"T\VO THUMBS UP!" 
S~'fi ;·I ~I Rl 

Workers discover ancient tomb 
By HILARY APPELMAN 
Associated Press 
MACCABIM, Israel 
A tractor leveling ground for a new highway broke open a 2,000-year-old burial cave be­lieved used by the Maccabees, a tribe of Jewish warriors whose revolt is celebrated in the festi­val of Hanukkah. 
Excited archaeologists showed off their dusty find Thursday -the first physical evidence of the Maccabees, known until now only from an­cient Jewish writings. 
"This is the first time that ar­chaeologists have evidence that there really was this family," said site director Shimon Riklin, as workers in hard hats cleared away sand that has covered the cave for nearly two millennia. 
·Th·e cave was discovered Monday by workers building a highway 19 miles northwest of Jerusalem. 
It includes an entrance court­yard and three small burial chambers built of chalk blocks, where archaeologists found 24 stone boxes, or ossuaries, con­taining the bones of the dead. 
The ossuaries are inscribed in Hebrew with Jewish names, Riklin said. The inscription on one is missing several letters, but is believed to read "Hasmonean," another name for the clan. 
Riklin said the cave may con­tain the remains of three gen­erations of Hasmoneans, per­haps even its most famous members, Judah Maccabee and his brothers. 
The Maccabees lived in what is now central Israel. In the second century B.C. they re­belled against Syria's King An­tiochus IV, who had stripped 

Tomb of the Maccabees 
Archaeologists believe they have uncovered a 2,000-year-old burial cave of the Maccabees. 

10ft. , Twenty-lour stone boxes containing : bones, known as ossuaries, were · found In the smaller rooms. 
WEST BANK 5milea 
50 mllea 
~ 
50km 

the Temple in Jerusalem and persecuted the Jews. 
Led by Judah, they conquered Jerusalem and reconsecrated the Temple in 165 B.C., a feat celebrated by the Jewish Hanukkah festival, which be­gins Dec. 17 this year. 
The successful rebellion, which led to the establishment of an autonomous Jewish state, 

So we take it back, maybe you're not a LOG afteraIll 


Happy 21st Dudley. 
.4rwe, 

S~,~, ~&ep 
Skm 
Bethlehem 

The Maccabees lived in what is now central Israel. They rebelled in the second century B.C. against the Syrian King Antiochus IV and reconsecrated the Temple in Jerusalem in 165 B.C., a feat celebrated by the Jewish feast of Hanukkah. 
APN/m. J. Castello 

assured the continued existence of Judaism and brought about a revival of Jewish political and religious life. Their exploits arc chronicled in the Talmud, a col­lection of Jewish legal commen­tary, and in accounts by the first-century Jewish historian Flavius Josephus. 
Riklin said the discovery of the burial cave is also signifi­cant because it pinpoin.ts the lo­cation of the ancient city of Modi'in, where the Maccabean revolt broke out. 
The find was initially kept se­cret so archaeologists could work without interference. 

<theo 365C "<the Churc.h and Soc.ial J\c.tion," c.o11oquia11lf known as "<Urb.an ~lunge" 
ORIENTATION 
November 20, 1995 (Srmday) 4-6PM 
Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
* This is required for all "Urban Plunge" participants 

When the Great 
American Dream isn't great enough 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross pries! or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 631-6385 


----,
-------~-~--­
Friday, November 17, 1995

page 6 The Observer • NEWS 



Children's Book Week
i ' 
Bookstore November 13 through 18 
..
.. .. 
25% OffAll Children's Books 
. 

Open Monday-Saturday 9 a.m. -5 p.m. 
.lefre~~~~ 
cl~ 
Everyone loves Clifford the Big Red Dog. 


Come and join us for a reading ofsome of Clifford's adventures on Saturday, November 18, from 10:00 -10:30 a.m., at the Notre Dame Bookstore -on the campus. 

Belles 

continued from page 1 
for their athletic name because the song is actually a love song." 
Almost 19 years later, con­cerns about whether or not their sisters made the right choice in 1977 have been raised. The concerns have es­calated dangerously, encourag­ing the Women's Center to hold a forum on the topic after Thanksgiving Break. 
"The forum will be held for discussion of the topic," Student Body President Sarah Sullivan said. "The Women's Center is trying to determine whether or not the campus wants the change. My personal concern is whether the name is repre­sentative of the Saint Mary's student. 
I would hope that the stu­dents at Saint Mary's are edu­cated women and would not give into the stereotype. The women here are educated and liberated women, which is in­consistent with the name the Belles." 
Sullivan hopes that the forum will challenge Saint Mary's to think about what the Belles means to them. "We can either buy into the stereotypes or we can change them," Sullivan said. 
"I do see myself as a Belle," she said. "But I don't associate a Belle with an oppressed or feminine lifestyle. I see the name as an athletic represen­tation." 

Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 

~i.e ll~ 
The results of a random sur­vey conducted of 50 Saint Mary's students reflected mixed emotions about the topic. 23 students claimed they were up­set with the athletic name, 24 expressed content with the name, and 3 others were un­decided. 
Reasons for dissatisfaction with the college's athletic nick­name stemmed from confusion between the images of a "Southern Belle" and a ringing "bell." 
Others.expressed concern about the outdated sense of the word, while the remainder wor­ried that it contained negative connotations about Saint Mary's. 
"I support a change of our athletic name for several rea­sons," Senior Vice-President and Women's Center member Laure DeMattia said. "I did not realize what the name meant until my second semester my freshman year. I thought the name was the "Bells." I think a "Belle" produces the image of a Southern belle. There is a defi­nite oxymoron here because Southern belles act coy and sweet as proper women of soci­ety. Saint Mary's women do not portray this image. We're more active." 
DeMattia is one of several women who compose the Women's Center at Saint Mary's. She believes that the forum will allow the students to talk about the issue and voice their opinions. 
"The forum will be a non-bias event," said DeMattia. "We will have a board composed of neu­tral mediator, two athletes and one non-athlete who would like to keep the name, and one ath­lete and one non-athlete who would like to devise an alterna­tive to the name. We're curious to see what the results are." 
The only suggestion that has been raised by the Women's Center so far is the "Banshees." A banshee is a type of mythical Irish fairy. 
"Banshees were said to take someone to another world after they die," DeMattia said. "Ban­shees aren't pagans, they're active. This is just a proposal, we hope to gain some other possible alternatives at the fo­rum." 
The majority of the 24 stu­dents surveyed who said they were happy with their college's athletic name claimed to do so because of tradition. 
"I like the name the Belles because it pertains to our all women's college," junior Holy Cross Resident Advisor and track team member Kelly Medlin said. "Saint Mary's College is big on tradition, which is why I support it. To me, a Belle is someone who is a lady but can also be an ath­lete." 
The much-anticipated forum will take place at 7 p.m. on November 29 in Haggar Parlor. All students are welcome. 
"No athlete will tell you that they don't like their athletic name," Richter said. "No ath­lete will tell you that they are representative of their name ei­ther. What they will tell you is that their team is representa­tive of what they believe in." 

Tribunal charges Serb leaders with genocide 
By MIKE CORDER 
Associated Press 
THE HAGUE, Netherlands 
An international tribunal today indicted the Bosnian Serbs' top two leaders for more war crimes, charging them with genocide in the Muslim enclave of Srebrenica. 
Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadzic and army commander Gen. Ratko Mladic are already charged with war crimes against Bosnia's Muslim and Croat populations, including attacks on the capital Sarajevo. 
The new indictments come just days after newspapers reported that Mladic and Karadzic agreed to relinquish power once a U.S.-sponsored peace deal is signed, in exchange for not being hand­ed over to the war crimes tri­bunal. 
Nevertheless, tribunal head Richard Goldstone told a news conference Thursday in Washington: "I am cautiously optimistic they will stand trial sooner or later." 
The indictment charges Karadzic and Mladic with crimes against humanity and genocide, describing them as the architects of what is per­haps the worst massacre in Europe since World War II. 
Karadzic and Mladic are ac­cused of ordering atrocities committed in July 1995 against the Bosnian Muslim population of the U.N.-desig­nated safe area of Srebrenica. The tribunal called the mas­sacre one of the cruelest and most bloody acts of the war in the former Yugoslavia. 
The latest indictments against the two appeared cer­tain to further isolate the Bosnian Serb leadership at a time when the leaders of Serbia, Bosnia and Croatia are trying to hammer out a U.S.-brokered peace accord. 
The charges will have no immediate effect on peace talks near Dayton, Ohio, which Karadzic and Mladic were barred from attending because of the earlier indict­ments. Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic is negoti­ating on behalf of Bosnia's Serbs. 
But the new indictments stand as a fresh reminder to Milosevic of the international pressure to dump Karadzic and Mladic as leaders, there­by ensuring they don't have prominent roles in any future Bosnian state. 
The United States has said it would not send troops to monitor a peace agreement as long as the two remained in power. 
After the fall of Srebrenica to Bosnian Serb forces, an estimated' 25,000 Muslim refugees fled to the nearby town of Potocari, headquar­ters of Dutch peacekeepers. 
But the Serbs deported thousands of Muslims to Bosnian government lines after reportedly separating out men and boys. 
Tribunal documents give a grisly description of the mas­sacre of Muslims after the fall of Srebrenica. 

Friday, November 17, 1995 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Walesa admits evasion of taxes on movie deal 
Associated Pre.u 
WARSAW, Poland 

President Loch Walesa, fight­ing for re-election against an ex-Communist challenger, acknowledged Thursday for the 
first time that he did not pay Polish taxes on $1 million he reeeived for the movie rights to his life. 


"This is Walesa petty money," Walesa told a news eonference. "I have never been greedy. I have given so much for Poland." 
The president reminded jour­nalists he had donated his 1983 Nobel Peace Prize award, just over $150,000, to the Solidarity trade union. 
Walesa had been evading the tax question for several days after it emerged in the bitter runoff campaign against Alek­sander Kwasniewski. 
The challenger is under in­vestigation by the Warsaw prosecutor's office for filing an incomplete financial declara­tion. They say he failed to list his wife's stock in a scandal­plagued insurance company. 
Estimates of the amount of 


Hey Sophomores!! 
Want to get involved in this year's: 

Then sign up to be on the Sophomore Committee for the 1996 JPW at the LaFortune Information Desk by December 1st. 
For further information, call Mark at 4-0567 


HELP WORLD HUNGER.COALITION 
THANKSGIVING FOOD BASKETS! 
MONDAY, NOV. 20 AT STEPAN CENTER 
3:00-4:30 PM ASSEMBLE 4:30-6:30 PM DISTRIBUTE 
QUESTIONS? CALL AMY AT *2992 
Polish· taxes due on $1 million Walesa received in 1989 from Warner Bros. Studio range from 10 to 30 percent. But there is also a gray area in Pol­ish law about whether foreign­earned income is taxable in Poland. 
"In this particular case, I agreed that all would be han­dled by the film studio," Walesa answered to a journal­ist's question about whether he had paid taxes on the money. "There are witnesses who heard that." 
An aide, Marek Karpinski, read aloud a letter from a Warner Bros. official. Roman Hart, saying the studio had paid all taxes due in the United States. There was no reference to Polish taxes. 
Warner Bros. never made a movie of Walesa's life. But the 52-year-old former leader of the Solidarity trade union says he and his family lived for the past six years on that money. Walesa had enough to build houses for himself and two of his eight children. 
His living expenses are paid by the state and he repeatedly says he has not collected his $31,000 per year presidential salary during his five-year term. But aides have acknowl­edged the money goes into his bank account. 
Algerians procede with election 
By GARY ABRAMSON 
Associated Press 
ALGIERS, Algeria 
Defying death threats from Islamic extremists, Algerians began choosing a president today in an elec­tion most opposition parties are boycotting. 
Security was tight at vot­ing centers throughout the country, but no violence was reported. Soldiers frisked voters and a heli­copter flew over the capital. 
Voter turnout nationwide was estimated at nearly 46 percent, the Interior Ministry said. 
At one central Algiers neighborhood, hundreds of residents lined up outside a polling station guarded by soldiers after voting began at 8 a.m. 
It was Algeria's first multiparty presidential election since the National Liberation Front estab­
winning independence from 
France in 1962. 
Major opposition parties sat out the election, declaring it a charade to prop up the current military-backed regime. 
The government urged jour­nalists not to walk around alone for fear of an extremist attacks. Reporters went to sev­eral of the most conflict-ridden neighborhoods under heavy military escort. 
Algeria's radical rebel organi­zation, the Armed Islamic Group, stepped up attacks 


Haitian political race intensifies 
By MICHAEL NORTON 
Associated Press 
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti 
One of Haiti's most popular politicians announced Thursday he would enter the Dec. 17 presidential election -the first serious challenger to President Jean-Bertrand Aristide's heir apparent. 
Victor Benoit, 54, leader of the National Congress of Demo­cratic Movements, caught the 

AP 

against security forces, secular dates, hoped a strong turnout Algerians and foreigners ahead would validate the election. of today's vote. They also Zeroual, a retired general ap­threatened to attack voters. pointed in 1994 to head a 
Algiers residents reported three-year transition to democ­hearing a big explosion about 5 racy, told Algerians during the 
a.m. and small-arms fire sever-campaign that this was their al times during the night. But chance to reject violence and authorities could not confirm if religious-based politics. the shots or the explosion were He invited 102 international by the extremists, who seek to observers to monitor polling establish a strict Islamic state. and vote counting. 
The government of President Zeroual's main challenger is Liamine Zeroual, who is run-Sheikh Mahfoudh Nahnah, ning against three other gov-president of the moderate ernment-sanctioned candi-l-lamas Movement. 
country by surprise with his last-minute decision. 
Fourteen candidates met Wednesday's midnight filing deadline for the election to re­place Aristide. 
Most are practically unknown to the public -except for Benoit and Rene Preval, 51, who ran Aristide's first govern­ment before the September 1991 army coup. 
Until Benoit stepped forward, Preval appeared to be a shoe-in as the candidate of the three­party Lavalas Platform en­dorsed by Aristide. 
Riding on the crest of Aristide's enormous popularity with poor Haitians. Lavalas candidates won more than three-fourths of parliamentary 
STUDENTS TRAVEL CHEAP 
FELLOW STUDENTS: Our tra"el agency offers you the lowest prices on all your 
tra.,el needs. We offer DISCOUNTS on Domestic and InternationaI Trnel, Cruises, Hotels, Amtrak, 

Ski-Resorts and last minute tra.,el specials. So, if you like to pay 
leu, do not buy before you check out our student discounts. 
Call TRAVEL PARTNERS. INT'L at: 1-800-234-3456 or (708) 629-4444 


seats in recent elections. 
Benoit, a private high school principal, is widely respected for his long support of democ­racy. He served as education minister in Premier Robert Malval's caretaker government in 1993-94. 
His socialist party is entrenched across the country, drawing support from many civic organizations. 
Benoit's candidacy came as a surprise because all major par­ties except the Lavalas Platform had said they would boycott the presidential election unless Aristide revamped the electoral council. 
They accused the council of engineering Lavalas' landslide victory. 



Considered a social democrat, Sadi is secretary general of the Rally for Culture and Democracy. a largely Berber party with appeal among other Algerians staunchly opposed to Islamic rule. A48-year-old psychiatrist, Sadi was part of a Berber movement in the 1970s. 
Nourredine Boukrouh As president of the Algerian Party for Renewal, Boukrouh, 45, considers himself an "Islamic modernist." He has argued for a combination of Islam and modernity, presenting himself as "the man for reconciliation." 
page 8 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Friday, November 17, 1995 
Bonds boost the Dow near an all-tiDle high 
By PATRICIA LAMIELL 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Stocks plowed further into record territory Thursday, as investors looked beyond the budget fight in Washington and focused instead on the possibil­ity of lower interest rates. 
Traders said stocks were also supported by Friday's double expiration of options and fu­tures contracts, a quarterly event that often adds to trading volatility. 
The Dow Jones industrial av­erage rose 46.61 to 4,969.36. While it ended more than 30 points beneath the 5,000 mark, the blue-chip index did record the sixth record high in the last seven trading sessions. 
Traders said a 5,000 Dow in the near future was possible. "It's literally a fractional move in the Dow stocks to get there," said Greg Nie, a technical ana­lyst at Everen Securities in Chicago. 
Broad market indexes also rose. The NYSE composite and the Standard & Poor's 500 composite both topped record highs set on Wednesday, with the NYSE index rising 2.01 to 318.48 and the S&P adding 3.38 to 597.34. 

The Nasdaq composite index rose 2.63 to 1 ,044.48. The American Stock Exchange's market value index rose 2.24 to 529.46. 
On the NYSE, advancing is­sues led decliners by about 7 to 
4. Volume was heavy at 418.43 million shares as of 4 p.m., up from 3 7 3. 06 million on Wednesday. 
Stocks got a big boost from the bond market. The 30-year Treasury rose 1 point, pushing its yield, which falls when prices rise, to 6.22 percent, the lowest level since early 1994. 
Bonds rose in response to further indications of a soften­ing economy. The Federal Re­serve Bank of Philadelphia said its index of area business activ­ity plunged to 7.9 in November from October's 25.5. And the National Association of Home Builders said its Housing Mar­ket Index dropped 7 points to 50 in November. 
The data stoked investors' hopes that once the budget tus­sling was over, the Federal Re­serve would be free to lower interest rates before the end of the year. 
CBS defends decision to axe tobacco story 
By SCOTT WILLIAMS 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

CBS News was stung by a spate of news reports Thursday which further undercut a "60 Minutes" segment critical of the tobacco industry. 
CBS News and "60 Minutes" executives wouldn't discuss ac­counts in The Wall Street Jour­nal and The New York Times suggesting CBS' decision to spike the segment was based on more than corporate lawyers' fears of potentially costly litigation. 
All "60 Minutes" lacked Thursday was a camera crew standing outside its headquar­ters, saying the prestigious CBS News magazine show had "declined our repeated offers to appear on-camera." 
"There are valid legal rea­sons not to talk about this," one CBS executive said -but wouldn't say what those rea­sons were. 

CBS' woes began Nov. 9, when The New York Times re­ported that CBS had killed a story whose key source was an unidentified, former Brown & Williamson Corp. tobacco exec­utive now highly critical of the industry. 
CBS executives reportedly feared the network's exposure to a big-ticket lawsuit for "tor­tious interference," or wrong­fully inducing the former exec­utive to breach a secrecy con­tract with Brown & Williamson. 
CBS took a critical drubbing and "60 Minutes" ran another tobacco story -about how the industry tries to silence its op­ponents. Senior correspondent Mike Wallace told viewers he and his colleagues were "dis­mayed that the management at CBS had seen fit to give in to perceived threats of legal action." 
On Thursday, The Wall Street Journal reported: 

The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Enter the Dragon 

Alex McCloud's creative writing class marches to last night's graduate student reading dressed as a Chinese dragon. The creative writing classes had a contest to see who could come up with the wackiest costume to wear to the readings. 



New bill restricts lobbyist perks 
By JIM DRINKARD 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Worried about public disdain for Congress, the House on Thursday imposed a virtual ban on gifts its members may re­ceive from lobbyists and other favor-seekers. 
Voting 422-6, the chamber adopted a new rule for itself that bars members and their aides from accepting anything from sports tickets and vaca­tions to fruit baskets and free meals. 
Lawmakers would still be al­lowed to receive expense-paid travel to make speeches, partic­ipate in meetings or engage in fact-finding, and to have spous­es or children accompany them. 
But the rule would end the widely criticized practice of House members participating in charity golf. tennis and ski events. Critics call them thinly veiled free vacations. 
"The simplest, the cleanest and the clearest standard was to say, 'No gifts,"' said Speaker Newt Gingrich, R-Ga., who pro­posed the change. 
There is an exemption for gifts from personal friends and family members. Any gift given under the personal friendship exemption that is worth more than $250 must be approved by the ethics committee. 

The new rule leaves the House with tougher standards than the Senate, which tight­ened its own rules in July. The Senate rules limit gifts from lobbyists and favor-seekers to those worth no more than $50, with gifts from a single source aggregating no more than $100 a year. Gifts under $10 don't count. 
"Under the new gift rule, members of Congress will do what their constituents do ­pay their own way," said Ann McBride, president of the ethics watchdog group Common Cause. 
Earlier, the House had voted 276-154 to reject a watered­down rule that would have let lawmakers accept gifts worth as much as $250 and allow them to attend tennis, golf and ski outings, as long as they dis­closed the gifts. Critics said the measure, offered by Rep. Dan Burton, R-Ind., would have es­sentially preserved the current system, which they said invites abuses. 
Reform advocates said a drumbeat of media reports about lawmakers vacationing in sunny resorts with lobbyists. or accepting theater and sports tickets or fancy meals, has added to public distrust. 
"Restoring the public's faith in this institution has to be an absolute top priority," said Rep. Porter Goss, R-Fla. "If the peo­ple ... don't believe in us, they are not going to believe in the decisions we make." 
"It has a ... subconscious ef­fect on anybody ,to constantly be in the presence of somebody who's paying the bills. It's just human nature," said Rep. John Bryant, D-Texas, who has been pushing for tougher rules for several years. 
After adopting the new gift rules, the House began debat­ing a separate bill that would revamp, for the first time in five decades, the law governing how lobbyists register and disclose their activities, who their clients are and how much they are being paid. Votes on the bill were put off until Friday. 
The two-pronged reform ef­fort came near the end of a year in which Congress' new Republican leaders have been accused of granting easy access to lobbyists, particularly those representing business and con­servative groups. Lobbyists have drafted bills, attended leadership strategy meetings and poured money into the GOP at a record rate. 
DART  COCT COTH DANC  426 481 144  01 01 80  0874 1339 9780  HIST HIST HIST  424A 427A 447A  01 01 01  3899 3903 3907  MUS PHIL PHIL  226 225 227  01 01 01  2513 3045 4318  THTR THTR THTR  230 272 276  58 60 62  9758 9760 9762  
ECON  450  01  4358  HIST  449A  01  3910  PHIL  227  02  4319  THTR  276  64  9764  
ENGL  300N  01  3733  HIST  451A  01  3912  PHIL  239  02  4099  
CLOSED SECTIONS AS  ENGL  301A  01  3735  HIST  454A  01  3027  PHIL  241  01  2923  
OF 7:00P.M. 11/16/95  ENGL  3018  01  3736  HIST  457A  01  3914  PHIL  241  02  0702  
ENGL  314  01  3738  HIST  473  01  3917  PHIL  241  03  4397  CLASSES THAT WILL  
ACCT  450  01  4335  ENGL  3198  01  3113  HIST  473A  01  3918  PHIL  244  01  1081  REOPEN AT 7:00P.M.  
ACCT AFAM  480 329  02 01  2242 3075  ENGL ENGL  328 340  01 01  3742 3743  HIST HIST  546 579  01 01  3933 3937  PHIL PHIL  246 247  .01 01  2342 3383  11/17/95  
AFAM  329  02  3622  ENGL  383  01  3748  liPS  412  01  4424  PHIL  250  01  4100  
AFAM  370  01  4349  ENGL  3908  01  3750  liPS  493  01  3148  PHIL  261  01  0310  ARHI  451  01  3107  
AFAM  401  01  3624  ENGL  396A  01  3751  liPS  593  01  4427  PHIL  263  01  4101  BA  483  01  4280  
AFAM  413  01  3625  ENGL  409  01  3753  LAW  591F  01  4331  PHIL  263  02  4102  COCT  426  01  0874  
AFAM  414  01  3626  ENGL  414  01  3756  LAW  592A  01  0035  PHIL  264  01  4103  ENGL  3018  01  3736  
AFAM  454  01  3028  ENGL  467A  01  3769  LAW  629C  01  4333  PHIL  637  01  4125  ENGL  340  01  3743  
AMST  481E  01  3650  ENGL  473A  01  3771  LAW  631F  01  1523  PSY  405  01  2955  ENGL  3908  01  3750  
AMST  489E  01  3652  ENGL  477A  01  3772  LAW  678A  01  4334  PSY  431  01  4135  ENGL  414  01  3756  
ANTH  387  01  4435  ENGL  484  01  3775  LAW  695  01  0121  PSY  4708  01  0018  ENGL  467A  01  3769  
ARCH  562  01  0529  ENGL  4908  01  3776  J.AW  695  02  2315  PSY  478A  01  4401  GOVT  301  01  3811  
ARCH  564  01  1061  ENGL  491  01  0509  LAW  695  03  1411  PSY  496  01  1900  GOVT  316F  01  3110  
ARCH  566  01  2274  ENGL  492A  01  3777  LAW  695  04  2464  RLST  335  38  9538  HIST  406A  01  3892  
ARCH  585  01  1058  ENGL  496Z  01  3778  LAW  695  05  1876  soc  332  01  4169  HIST  473  01  3917  
ARHI  169  01  0319  FIN  474  01  0604  LAW  695  06  1087  soc  346  01  3034  MUS  226  01  2513  
ARHI  451  01  3107  FIN  474  02  4286  LLRO  522  01  4321  soc  370  01  2689  PHIL  225  01  3045  
ARST  232S  01  1201  FIN  476  01  2983  MATH  103  01  0394  soc  374  01  2023  PHIL  227  01  4318  
ARST  297S  01  1069  GOVT  301  01  3811  ME  439  01  2142  soc  422  01  4174  PHIL  239  02  4099  
BA  483  01  4280  GOVT  316F  01  3110  MI  387  01  4396  THEO  243T  01  0721  PHIL  241  01  2923  
BA  490  01  2840  GOVT  373  01  3821  MI  423  01  4063  THEO  262  01  0720  PHIL  241  02  0702  
8A  490  02  2318  HIST  363  01  3886  MI  525  01  4074  THEO  265  01  2807  PSY  4708  01  0018  
CE  470  01  2448  HIST  403A  01  3888  MUS  222  01  0227  THEO  270  01  3438  THEO  265  01  2807  
CHEM  323L  46  8346  HIST  406A  01  3892  MUS  225 .  01  1535  THEO  290C  01  4210  THEO  270  01  3438  









VIEWPOINT 

page 9 Friday, November 17, 1995 

Dear Editor: nature of military weapons and their uses. If a 
I am writing this letter in an attempt to express demonstration of military precision and skill was the shock and dismay that I felt during the half­the goal of the Naval Academy administration in time of the Notre Dame-Navy football game. choosing its halftime entertainment, I'm sure 
These feelings can be attributed to the inappro­that they could have found something that didn't priateness of the "entertainment" provided for involve weapons and had some semblance of a the games attendees by the United States Marine relationship to the activities that normally Corps Silent Drill Team. accompany a football game. Notre Dame chose to 
The Silent Drill Team's performance was entertain those inside the stadium with its fine extolled as a demonstration of precision and marching band, why couldn't the Naval Academy skill; however I found the performance to be do the same? inappropriate within the context of the sporting I feel that the responsibility for the improper event during which it occurred. The reason for scheduling of the Silent Drill Team rests with its inappropriateness rests primarily in the fact both the Notre Dame Administration and the that the skill exhibited by the Silent Drill Squad United States Naval Academy. In the future, I in its demonstration was proficiency in handling would hope that the Notre Dame administration a rifle. The purpose of a rifle is to kill and dis­would more closely scrutinize the entertainment member. A military function, where those in chosen for the halftimes of its football games, attendance have a respect for war and its and ensure that that entertainment is more in weapons, provides a proper context for such a accordance with the athletic setting within which demonstration of skill; halftime at a Notre Dame it is occurring. football game does not. I feel that the Silent Drill Team's exhibition, which occurred in front of a CHRISTOPHER LEE crowd of sports fans, many of whom were bois­Senior terous and intoxicated, undermined the serious Off-Campus 
Tradition lost with renovation ofND Stadium 
Dear Editor: 

As I slowly trudged across the campus late Saturday afternoon, I felt as if I had lost a dear friend. 
A dear friend that was well known to everyone and, yet, inexplicably, I seemed to be almost alone in 
lamenting the loss. Almost alone. As I crossed Main Circle, I looked up at the Dome, at Mary, and 
our gazes locked. I thought that I saw a tear welling up in her eye. Perhaps it was a tear in mine. I 
really couldn't tell. 

The friend to which I make reference is The House that Hock Built, Notre Dame Stadium, the site 
of our fabled team for over 60 years and a national landmark. Yes, argue that we are not going to 
tear it down nor even move it. Argue all that you want; it will never be that same, simple monument 
in which we have long assembled to experience one of the most remarkable aspects of Notre Dame 
accomplishment and to be showered in the unity of the Notre Dame family. 
The House that Rock Built has died, we are all accomplices, and yet there are few signs of loss. I 
witnessed no mourners, no professional wailers, no funeral procession, no requiem mass...Perhaps 
there were many like me, quietly trudging across campus, unable to express their sorrow, looking in 
wonderment at the indifference of those around them, searching for others sympathetic to their 
cause. I, for one, will never forget Notre Dame football played in her proper home nor the place that 
the old stadium played in all of our lives. 

True, the world goes on, Notre Dame lives on and soon there will be a new generation of Domers 
that won't miss an old stadium that they never knew. I, however, feel as if we've lost something 
along the way. 

Perhaps Daniel Patrick Moynihan, 32 years ago almost to the day, expressed my sentiments best as 
I trudged across campus, "Dear God, sweet Mary, it's not the end of the world, we've simply lost our 
innocence." 
RYAN KERRIGAN ND Class of 1995 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: 1'.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: .'109 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
John Lucali Managing Editor Business Manager Elizabeth Regan Joseph Riley 

Ncwo Editor ............................David Tyler Advenising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor ................. Michael O'Hara Ad DeSJgn Manager ......................)en Mackowiak Sports Editor ..........................Mike Nnrbm Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Mos<r Al·cent Editor ........................ Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean GaHavan s...inr Mary's Editor ....................Pam Carson Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Ob\Crv<r is rhc independent newspaper published by rhe students of rhe Universiry of Notre l>ame Ju l..1c and Saim Mary's College. It does not necessarily rdlcct the policies of the administra­uon of cuher m~uuuion. The nrws is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torial~ reprcloclll the opinion of rhc majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Vi<"wpomr Ediror, Accent Ediwr, Photo Editor, Sporrs Editor, and Saine Mary's Editor. Commcruarict~, lt"ucn and lnsiJc Columns prt"senl the views nf rhe author~. and nor necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available 10 all members of rhe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munuy and to all readers. Tllr free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chil'f  6..11-4542  Uusiness Office  631-5313  
Man,rging Editor /Viewpoint  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900I 8840  
Sports  631-4543  Systems/Marketing Dept.  631-8839  
News/Photo  631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accent/Saint Mary's Day EditorI Production  631-4540 631-5303  Fax Viewpoint  E-Mail  631-6927 Viewpoint.1@nd.edu  
Gcn£'ral lnform,1tion  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  

• EDITORIAL 
Lack of communication compounds RHA turmoil 
The unexpected resignations of the four executive board mem~ 

hers of the Hesidence Hall Association (IUIA) earlier this week 
raised many troubling questions about the role of the organiza­
tion and its relationship with the Saint Mary's administration. 
At Monday's meeting, resigning board members cited, among 
other things, a lack of respect, a lack of communication, and 
unprofessional and uncooperative attitude among administra~ 
tors and advisors. 
But nearly a week later, students still don't have a full under­

standing of what happened and why. Fingers have been point­
ed, allegations have been made, but figures on both side have 
consistently ducked tough questions and failed to got to the , htlart of the matter. .. . , . ; . . . 
· It is the responsibility of both parties to air these problems. 
Hatlter than quitting without full explanations, examples, or 
details, members of the former RHA board need to address the 
obstacles that shut down their group, even if it means con· 
fronting unpleasant personality conflicts and differences in opin­
ion. The former members of RHA are leaving the board, the 
student body and incoming officers in a very delicate position. 
We simply do not know what they were up against. . 
Newly elected officers should be warned that the efficiency of 

the body might be stifled if the Conner problems are not brought 
to light. Have these problems with the administration been 
going on for years? Are the problems facing this year's board 
unique? More importantly, will they continue under the tenure 
of a new board? 
The lack of communication, however, does not lie solely with 

the former executive board members. They have made a strong 
stutement. Now it is up to the administration to respond. But 
Dr. Linda Timm, vice-president for Student Affairs has only 
addressed the problem by stating that administrators are look· 
lng forward to working with a new executive board and will take 
the old board's concerns uunder advisement." 
One concrete complaint that has emerged from the former 

exucutive board involves lack of support from the administra" 
tion. Officers say they felt continually shut out of the decision~ 
making process. They claim that Residence Ufe has given end­
less excuses to numerous proposals 
According to the former board's allegations, it seems as if 

executive board members of RHA lack any real power. It seems 
as if thoy are png-holed into token positions f'rom the beginning 
and that if they try to break these boundaries, they receive little 
support from both the administrators of the college and the 
advisors of the association. 
Hopefully, those concerns are the ones "under advisement." 

But once again, no one, outside of those actually involved, is get­
ting a full picture. To ensure a functioning board, there must be 
communication between the administration, the executive board 
and the student body. 
We're still waiting. 

•  D:JONESiJURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  
N&//....1 AI<& YOU AFRAICJ OF P&O­Pl& F/NCJING {}(JT YOU'RE GAY?  7H&R&ASON I ASK 15TH/fT YOU'RE 08· V/OIJSl-Y TRYING 70 DI5GUI58 YOUR VOle:&. fT '30UN{)5 FORC&D AND PHONY  

• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"rechnology...the knack of 
so arranging the world that we don't have to experi­ence it." 
-Max Frisch 


--------~----------~----­
VIEWPOINT

page 10 Friday, November 17, 1995 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Readers answer Kelly and 'God bless Columbus' 
Shock and outrage at 'insult' 
Dear Editor: penalty of severe beatings and back breaking 
I was shocked and outraged to read Fred work. Does Kelly care to acknowledge the fact Kelly's inflammatory letter (9 Nov.) in this past that in New Mexico alone thousands of Native issue of The Observer. I simply cannot believe Americans were worked to death to build the that an institution like Notre Dame could pro­Santa Fe Cathedral, which, when it was built, duce a second year student with such a limited was the only gothic style cathedral west of the view of the world and who harbors such Mississippi River? Rejoice, Kelly! Your pillar to tremendous hatred and contempt for any cul­Christianity in "wild" New Mexico is built on the ture not his own. As a proud Hispanic, I feel I broken back of the Pueblo tribes. Do you dream must take issue with several of the points in of their tears at night? I thought not. Kelly's letter. So, what indeed is Kelly arguing for? It would 
I will grant Kelly the point that most of pre­seem that Kelly is hoping for a return to the Columbian history in the Americas was ruled by "good old days" of the eighteenth and nine­warfare and bloodshed. However, Kelly does not teenth centuries when slavery was the rule and ever mention the harsh environmental condi­the United States government issued blankets tions under which these early cultures found that they knew to be carrying smallpox to sever­themselves competing in. Culture, as the current al dozen Native American tribes in the anthropological definition holds, is a human Southwest. As a matter of fact, Kelly's ethnocen­invented tool to deal with the environment. tric rhetoric reminds me of a certain European Many of the societies that Kelly mentions were twentieth century figure who warped a classic situated in dense tropical rainforests that pro­Native American symbol, the swastika, to suit vides precious few natural resources. This his own twisted needs. already stressful situation was coupled with a Oh, woe, indeed, is Kelly! For apparently he growing population density. This naturally led to alone must carry the White Man's Burden! I bet the development of aggressive cultures that had it's heavy isn't, Kelly, knowing that it's up to to compete to obtain these resources. Then, as people, and only people like you, to carry out we can clearly see, even in the early stages, Mr. God's will on Earth. And, I suppose that Kelly Kelly's argument is lacking a full perspective. even has a special bot-line straight to the Big 
Next is Kelly's attempt to justify the European Chair in the sky. And this phone rings once conquest of the New World by manipulation of every few decades and commands Kelly and all the definition of what he calls "natural law." I the other people just like him to raise up and gather from the content of his letter that Kelly "conquer" the world in the name of capitalism, defines natural law in terms of simplified Anglo-European beliefs, and so-called "peace". Darwinism or natural selection; i.e. Only the As I stated earlier, I am shocked and outraged strong survive and, thus, only the strong are fit over Kelly's letter, as every student should be. to rule. As I have already stated, this simplifica­This is just not an insult to each and every tion is just plain wrong. With a Bachelor of Arts minority student on the Notre Dame and Saint in English and Anthropology from New Mexico Mary campuses, but to their respective student State University, I can comfortably assert that bodies. I hereby call upon the Student this definition of "Social Darwinism" died Government of Notre Dame to immediately around the turn of the last century. It was stamp out this kind of narrow-minded and racist exactly this type of thinking that led the world rhetoric. I call upon the Administration of the into years upon years of open warfare, the University to investigate Kelly's personal perfor­depths of slavery, and the wholesale destruction mance and beliefs as a student. of cultures around the globe. Thanks to thinking In closing, sir, I am saddened worse of all by like Kelly's some the world's greatest minds the fact that Kelly will no doubt find some kind died under the yoke of slavery or oppression. of celebrity status because of all this. Kelly, you 
Kelly then links this limited and blatantly wanted your fifteen minutes of fame and you got warped definition with the tenet that them. Think of that next time you take that late Christianity brought peace and prosperity to the night trip to Taco Bell. natives. Again, Kelly leaves out valuable infor­ESTEBAN GALINDO mation. For instance, usually conversion to Graduate Student in Creative Writing Christianity was forced upon the natives, under Fischer Graduate Residences 
Problems with route to the message but not the perceived ultimate point 
Dear Editor: 
I am not generally a person to involve myself in politics or debates. I'm not usually ambitious enough to attempt to counter a letter even if I don't agree with it. However, Fred Kelly's letter of Thursday, Nov. 9 was disturbing enough to move me from my general indifference. I would like to say in advance that I welcome any comments. Just be nice, please -I'm new at this! 
I agreed with some of Kelly's points. His examples of Native American atrocities are all very well­

documented and accurate. However, he neglects to mention that the white man of the time was 
equally savage. Columbus, who was indeed a great man and a devout Catholic, was sent by 
Ferdinand and Isabella of Spain. At the same time Columbus was claiming "India" for them, their 
Inquisition was routinely capturing, torturing, and killing Jews, Muslims, Protestants, and other 
"heretics." As late as the 1700s, women in America were being burned as witches by people of 
European descent, and it took another 150 years to finally abolish the systematic, legalized torture 
of slavery. Kelly may be correct about the brutal nature of the Native Americans, but their savagery 
was only replaced with savagery of a different kind when the white man's culture entered the pic­
ture. To portray the Native Americans as savage and the white man as somehow "better" is blatant­
ly wrong. 
However, just as our ancestors' cultures had some redeeming qualities, so too did the Native 

Americans'. There were so many tribes that it is difficult to generalize, but they did share a love 
and respect for nature and an ability to create complex cultures. Yes, some wore animal skins, but 
this certainly does not mean that they were primitive. People today wear leather coats and boots, 
and we also pierce our ears and tattoo our bodies. This is simply one facet of our culture, as it was 
of theirs. Their savageries, also, were just a small part of the picture. Would you like future histori­
ans to judge our people on the basis of our inner cities, gangs, and prisons? Of course not. We hope 
they will look a little closer, and we should do the same for the Native Americans. 
The statement that I found most distressing was "The Caribs systematically raided and raped the 

surrounding tribes in order to procure concubines. The feminists no doubt admire this aspect of 
Indian life .... " I thought that this comment was completely inappropriate. No sane person can 
admire the rape of innocent women, especially a person dedicated to the interests of women! Rape 
is a horrible crime, and to imply that feminists approve of it is not only ridiculous, but degrading 
and chauvinistic. I know Kelly intended it to be a joke, but it was in extremely bad taste. That state­
ment alone is reason enough for every woman on campus to object to Kelly's letter. 
At any rate, I believe Kelly's ultimate point is that the Columbus murals should stay up. I agree 

with him that Columbus should continue to be honored as an explorer and a Christian. On the other 
hand, if one looks closely at these murals, it's easy to see that Native Americans are treated unfair­
ly. Portraying the whites as noble and the Native Americans as savage is both historically and 
morally wrong. Taking the murals out and moving them to the Snite -where they would be 
enjoyed as great Art-is not an insult to Columbus or to Christianity. It is simply the removal of an 
insult to Native Americans which has been in place for far too long. 
DIANA SHEPARD 
Sophomore 
Farley Hall 

'American' should take lead over all other classifications 
Dear Editor: 

They say ignorance is bliss. Well, then I guess people such as Cristiane Likely and Fred Kelly are the happiest people alive. 
Recently, there have been numerous articles published in The Observer concerning private opinion on the white versus black, one ethnic group versus another, conflict. These articles have contained very strong opinions that have sparked response, both positive and negative, from all sides of campus. Walking in the dining halls dur­ing lunch time, it is not uncommon to hear, "Wow, did you read Dave Weathington's article ... " or "I can't believe Cristiane Likely thinks ... " Just as these brave souls have openly expressed their opinions in the wake of heavy criticism, I, too, feel the need to put in my two cents worth. However, I offer a new outlook on the situation. 
While I am a Caucasian, I do not consider myself a white man. When I see an "African American" walking down the street, I do not see a black individual. In fact, I consider both to be one and the same. Whoopi Goldberg expressed my exact opinion in one of her interviews when she proudly claimed, "I am not African American, I am American." American, the one word in this country that unites all people of all backgrounds -or at least it should. 
In today's society, it seems as if this classification is forgotten and placed on the back burner. Why? For starters, the media shoulders much of the blame. Presently, our First Amendment rights allow us to print and say what we like. This fact, however, has been readily abused by Hollywood, newspapers, television, etc. Currently in America, well over 50 percent of all black Americans are classified as middle class. Is this what the media relays to us, the uninformed and "gullible"? Personally, I thought all black Americans lived in Compton, but I do watch a little too much TV. Movies such as Menace to Society and Higher Learning, while great forms of enter­tainment, actually do more harm than good. Sure I paid the six dol­lars to see Higher Learning on opening night, and true, my friends and I were the only white Americans in the theater. And yes, I did feel bad when the black Americans were abused by the white Americans. Knowing how I felt and observing the opposing reaction of the other 99 percent of the theater made me vow never to support such media again. These types of things only widen the gap between Americans and 'Jam optimistic about their skin color. They unfairly 
the future of 

stereotype and paint false 
America and its inhabi­
images in the minds of other parties. tants. I do believe that 
Second, I blame, in the words 
people are finally
of Cristiane Likely, the "destruc­tive, evil, deadly and greedy" beginning to see 
attitudes of all humans. It is 
Americans and not col-
unfair to attach this label to one particular group because, in Ors.' fact, it is common of all mankind. In order for us to live as one unit, one America, we need to cast aside these selfish and "finger-pointing" accusations and spread the attitude that Americans as a whole are supreme, not yellow, blue, green, white, or black. 
I am optimistic about the future of America and its inhabitants. I do believe that people are finally beginning to see Americans and not colors. I came to believe this after studying General Colin Powell. Unfortunately for the United States, he will not seek a stay in the White House. In a recent Newsweek poll, 51 percent of all Americans think that Powell's decision not to run is a major loss for the United States. This wasn't just a reflection of black opinion; this included all Americans. If what some feel is true about the need to separate the races and live as two different cultures, how, then, can half of our country -white and black together -support a com­mon cause, a cause that is the most important and influential aspect of the United States? We came together on this issue, and I hope we can continue to do so. 
For those of you who doubt that this really is possible, living peacefully and equally with one another, I encourage you to visit a local day care or elementary school. There you will find some of the most politically correct individuals in the United States, children. Sure, the boys might think the girls are gross because they have cooties (trust me, I've been there), but when it comes down to it, they see each other as playmates, not enemies. They need each other to make teams for tag, they need each other to get through the obstacle course in gym class, they need each other as friends. They have fulfilled Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.'s outlook for the future: "I have a dream that one day little black boys and black girls will be able to join hands with little white boys and white girls as sisters and brothers." I'm just glad King didn't include black and white adults; otherwise, his dream would have been a huge failure. 
I hope there is a future for black and white Americans, a future together. Jefferson, the supposed "slave rapist", once said that this country was created for the principles that all men are created equal and given certain unalienable rights such as life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. Whatever happened in the past, is the past; live and learn. As a great country, united we stand, divided we fall. Sizing up our current situation, we must set aside our differ­ences if there is to be any .future for us, the American people. We must unite. As a white American, I am not a devil. I am not the black American's "worst enemy." I pledge allegiance to two things and two things only: the flag of the United States of America and the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. 
JOSH GERLOFF 
Freshman 


Friday, Novemher 17, I 995 
VIEWPOINT 
page 11 

• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
A call for understanding and objectivity 
Perceived attack crosses all cultural lines 
Dear Editor: points, but it has some low points as well. 
When I read the term "Natural Law" in The Thomas Jefferson, who you quote approvingly in 
Observer it usually feels like I've been clubbed in your essay, was a slave owner who make a regu­
the face. The tone of Fred Kelly's Nov. 9 letter lar habit of having sex with his slaves. I respect 
on Native American culture and history feels much of what he has written, but not because he 
hatllful, and I am confused by references to God's wrote it. Some of his ideas stand up and some of 
law together with these hateful feelings. The them are nonsense, even evil. He was not per­
tone of the essay makes me feel like I've been fect, and neither are we. 
told to sit down and shut up. I don't get any You are attacking, at least it feels like you are 
sense that them is room for discussion. I focus attacking, people and ideas that are important to 
here on what I feel because the strength of these me. You see, though raised as a Midwest white­
feelings makes it hard to boy, I've lived much of my adult 
respond in anything but like life across cultural lines. I play 
manner. My instinct is to traditional Irish music and that 
r11spond to hurt with hate, but 'Jt is frightening to places me many hours per 
my nmding of the Bibln has left me that anybody is week in an ethnic community; 
me with one commandment I'm bilingual. a returned Peace
so comfortable

that defies any attempt at revi­Corps Volunteer, having lived 
sion: treat others as I would expressing ideas that for two and one half years in 
want them to treat me. South America; I was married
feel so hateful to me. I

After reading Fred Kelly's let­to an African American woman tnr to the editor about Native am left wondering if it and I'm currently a member of Anwriean culture, I am quite was Kelly's intent to a predominantly black church. angry. It is frightening to me My ethnic identity as an Irish
make me and others

that anybody is so comfortable American gives me a center, expressing ideas that feel so feel that way' something to share when I hattlful to nw. I am left won­cross over cultural boundaries. dnring if it was Kelly's intent to I also know that the Irish who make me. and others, feel this way. came here in the last century were dirty, unedu­
Kelly, if it was your intent to bring light and cated, desperately poor peasants. Often drunk love to difficult and painful subjects, you failed to and unruly, they were despised. Being Catholic do so. At least, it did not work for me. Your did not help. I doubt that I would be happy today writing strikes me as arrogant and hateful. if a typical Irish immigrant family of 1870 moved That's how it fenls. Your essay also strikes me as into the downstairs apartment in my home. 
Dear Editor: The comments on haberdash­lwing selectively accuratn. Now I'm getting away From what I read, I'd rent out the apartment to Fred Kelly's passionate letter ery seem a bit gratuitous, sincefrom my fnelings and trying to get a conversation four people and end up with twenty. Pissing in attacking the First Americans we know that the person wear­startPd. You don't Stlem to be asking for a eon­the hallways and shitting on the lawn. There puzzles me. Assuming that his ing the fur bathed far more fre­vnrsation in your article, but I make the assump­were no latrines in old Ireland nor the habits 
historical interpretations are quently than the person wear­
tion that you don't want to express hate, and that that go with them. So goes some of my own anywhere near accurate (and I ing the armor.
you don't think that you know everything. That proud history. I prefer to focus on the beautiful would disagree with his picture Basically, however, I wonderis llw way I want pnopln to read the things that I music though, and I try not to romanticize any­of pre-invasion American soci­whether we need object so pas­write. as conversations where I open myself to body's past. 
eties}. does such an interpreta­sionately to a group of our fel­learn things by nxprnssing myself. I was talking I feel most honored and respected when some­tion warrant extermination? lows who request some modifi­about how your mi!Jay seems to me to be selec­one listens to me with a kind ear, assuming that Need we argue that extending cation of the decor in the Maintivnly aentrutn. For the sake of brevity, I will rnaybe I'm not good enough with words to say the whiskey or real estate Building, on the grounds thatassunw that everything that you say about Native exactly what I mean to say. I want to treat you, trade, justified Chivington at the present decor makes themAnwriean Culture is true. Is that all there is? Kelly, with honor and respect, and I must admit Sand Creek? feel excluded from the "NotreNothing positive'! llow about Christianity? Is it that it is difficult to do so. your words feel vio­One can also wonder whether Dame family?" Surely we canall good'! lent, but since you are a Christian, that certainly learning Pizzaro's brand of deal courteously, if not charita­I'v11 always fnlt that one of the best arguments was not your intent? What is it that you really Christianity as a slave under bly, with one another.
against Catholic organizations is a careful read­meant to say? 
ground in the lethal silver
ing of ovtlr onn thousand years of European his­
mines really improved the
tory. Thn age of Catholic dominance coincides 
moral or metaphysical condi­LEW SOENS 
with what we rel'nr to as the Dark Ages. It mighi. JOHN KENNEDY, JR. 
tion of the subject of the exer­Associate Professor 
lw a coineidnnc1l. The civilization that you Director 
cise. Department of English
express so much pride in certainly has some high Arts and Letters Computing 
Violations ofthe natura/law not limited to Native Americans 
Dear Editor, some stretch of a saintly disposition; it speaks of incessant warfare as charac­cannibalism, human sacrifice, and geno­
I am writing in response to Fred makes logical sense. Kelly's judgment is teristic of Native American cultures. cide. Surely he does not purport to Knlly's Viewpoint artide of Nov. 9, 1995 based on his idea of natural law which, Are not Europeans similarly character­assume that Native American cultures entitlnd. "Natural Law over he explains, is part of God's creation of ized? I hardly consider brutal warfare a alone practiced such rites? Specifically Multiculturalism: God Bless Columbus." the universe. What he fails to realize is practice restricted only to Native on the topic of genocide, one need not In his artiele. Kelly stipulates that that his entire notion of natural law is American cultures. Kelly also refers to search far for examples, both past and Columbus brought civility and part of his own culture. How can one barbaric tribes. A closer examination of present. of genocide in European cul­Christianity to the "merciless and sav­judge another culture using standards the history of England alone reveals ture. age: Native Americans. lie explains from a different culture? True, a sense hundreds of years of conflict between I don't maintain that because many with many examples and a few graphic of a higher natural order is probably invading barbarians. clans, and the cultures have been known to enact these dntails that the Native American cul­intrinsic to every culture, but it is these many various cultures which con­atrocities that they should be over­tunls Columbus found in North America culturally specific notions of 'natural tributed to the population. Even more looked, accepted, or dismissed as part of wnrn brutal. in some eases to the extent law' by which a culture should be illustrative are examples of barbarism the unchangeable ways of the world. of rapn, torturn, slavery, and cannibal­judgt~d. if a culture is to be judged at all. after the European intrusion into North There are many crimes and transgres­ism and that tlwir bdmvior was in viola­Which leads to another point: who are America. When regional conflicts sions that cultures the world over enact tion of natural law. I feel that Kelly humans to judge the moral values of evolved into tho notoriously bloody Civil against human beings, and they should ntltHis to nxaminn and conquer his own other humans? Judgment is the calling War, did this not fall significantly short bn addressed and n~etified in the name racisms. Also I think that his thinking, of God Almighty, not Fred Kelly. I don't of the ideals perpetrated in Kelly's of humanity. However, a culture should pt~rhaps suhronsciously, is rooted in pretend to be a Biblical scholar, but I do moral code? In fact, to use a tendency not be judged by anotht~r culture for dPiusions of supnmutcy of the European recall a passage wherein a person is towards warfare as an indication of sav­those same transgn~ssions. Each cul­cultunL about l'> bn stonfld and Jesus says some­agery is to describe every culture of ture should look to itself. and perhaps 
The main flaw in Kelly's reasoning is thing to the effect of "Let anyone among humans since the dawn of civilization as tho example and influence of others, in that lw supposm; that a culture can be you who has not sinned east the first savage. order to strive for continual improve­judgtld morally dosnrving or nxistenee. stonn." What I gathered from this was Nearly all of Kelly's examples can be ment. While each ethnolinguistic group lin usns natural law as a sort of univer­that we should worry about our own countered by the fact that each of his of people may have an undet·stood sal eodn to rank civilizations and thnir failings and try to correct our own moral charges against Native American cul­moral code, one group is never justified morals. Thos1~ which receive higher inadequacies first, and when we are tures can be found in any other culture, in imposing its cod•~ on another. never marks arn granlfld permission to con­successful. only then can we turn our and in some cases, are even associated justified to determine another group qtwr tlw lnssnr ratnd ones and force attention to the judgment of others. specifically with European cultures. unworthy of its own identity, and never tlwm to conform to tho supremely Building on the concept that no per­Kelly describes the torture and death of justified in sentencing one group to con­ordainml 'morally supnrior' cultures. lie son. and certainly no culture, has the a Jesuit priest. but perhaps he should version to another self proclaimed continually attacks multiculturalism for right to judge another. I would like to remember the endeavor which perfected morally superior group. Those who are romanticizing Nativt! American cultures turn my attention to a few of Kelly's the art of torture: The Spanish unaware of this truth are, in milder and portraying them as peaceful people examples. lie describes Native Inquisition. It also seems relevant that instances, arrogant and in more severe with supt~rior morality to their con­American cultures as savage and merci­the funding source for Columbus' expn­cases, deluded about thnir own culture's qtwrors. What Knlly dews not under­less, and does back up his claim with dition were Ferdinand and Isabella of significance. stand is that Multiculturalism does not several examples, which seem to be Spain. Kelly's citations of rape and slav­value on1~ culturn above another. drawn from historical fact. My question ery can be equally countered: crimes Multiculturalism rncognizes the value of to Kelly is, have you ever thought about against basic human dignity are as old KCGOYER twery culture in and of itself, without the history of Europeans and the atroci­and as apparent as the flaws in human Senior ranking or judging any. This is not ties of which they are guilty? Kelly nature jtself. Finally, Kelly speaks of Cavanaugh Hall 

page 12 The Observer• WEEKEND Friday, November 17, 1995 



a PHOTO Pott... 
What is your favorite James Bond film? 
"Goldfinger, Sean Connery gets Pussy Galore!" 
Steve Robinette, Fisher. Sophomore 
// 
"I Like Them All!" 
KG Moloney Lewis, Freshman 

"Octopussy" 
Brian Patrick Turtle Creek, Junior 
"Live and Let Die" 
Steve Schrantz Off-Campus, Senior 


"Goldfinger'' Beth Dolak Pangborn, Junior 
The Observer/ Brandon Candura 


How Sexy is James Bond 
By JENNY SHANK 
Accenr Writer 
I
t doesn't take more than a brief glimpse into the world of James Bond movies -a world where people escape armed assailants by sledding down mountains on cello cases. a world where all the women are beautiful and always ready to throw themselves at the feet of dashing secret agents. a world where these women have names like "Pussy Galore"-to realize that Gloria Steinem probably didn't have much input into the screenplays. Some women, like sophomore Susan Happel, are downright offended by the Bond movies' objectification of women. "The women in the movies are just pawns in Bond's game of life. James Bond movies are a joke. Women aren't like that, and men aren't like that. I am embarrassed to see women acting that way, because it makes all women look bad." 
Sophomore Boo Gallagher agreed, "Though James Bond is quite sexy at times, and the movies are mildly enter­taining at times, the objectification of women in them becomes tiresome more often than not. In these movies women are portrayed as having no feelings or real role except as sex objects, and they are always screaming for Bond to save them -which is not very entertaining. Even the women who are spies aren't strong; they are always the ones who make mistakes. And then Bond corrects those mistakes and saves them -there's no partnership between them." Boo doesn't think Bond movies are very harmful to society, "I think they mir­ror society more than they influence it, but they are harmful in the sense that we still watch these old movies and are entertained by them but we fail to see them in the cultural context of the times in which they were made." 
Trinh Truong added, "The women in the Bond movies are depicted as little sex objects that are total­ly dependent on the male for happiness and protec­tion, and they have no individuali­ty. Such portrayals shown in the media contribute to the perpet­uation of female stereotypes." Trinh believes the makers of Bond movies could remedy this by "making their sexism less blatant. The James Bond character could still be depicted as a strong man, but at the same time they should not put down women." 
According to junior Silvia Pendergass, "James Bond is the prototypical male. If you were to harness all maleness into one fig­ure, that would be James Bond, because that's how they set him up to be. He's strong, he's smart, he's sophisticated, he can hold his liquor, and he's a romancer. He doesn't just go out and try and pick up chicks -he does it very suavely. He's a charmer." 
In the eyes of some women, Bond's charm and good looks are enough to redeem him. According to Jen Sutton, "Many women have dreamed of being a Bond girl. I suppose I could handle being demeaned if James Bond was the person demeaning me. He's a gentleman, but he's in complete control. The key to his sex appeal is the fact that he's a rogue, but he's also a gentleman to women. He'll protect his woman while killing everyone else." 
Gallagher, however, questioned the merits of life as a Bond girl. "Part of me wants to be a Bond girl, 

because they have some. of power -sexual po, But I believe that the much more to life 1 that, and Bond mo certainly should n( 
seen as role rna with wome• ing just to 1 sex and 1 living just tt people an~ on secret 1 sions." 
Pender~ 
believes 1 Bond is 1 man you lo~ hate. j wouldn't re 
want to with I because uses worn Basically. I a womani; he's a man you woul< 
want to be" him that wa} the Bibli sense). But 
would want to be with you in the Biblical sel' because that's what he does." Pendergass echoes sentiments of many women who feel that Bond is . for the movie theater, but if he ever showed u their door they would shut it in his face quicker t you can say "Octopussy." 
As junior Macaire Carroll said, "You would want to hate James Bond in the movies because uses women. But how could you not be attracte him? He's so charming! Pierce Brosnan? Hello d factor number ten! He's not looking for commitml He doesn't want to stay with the women -it's fu{ll him to fall in love with them and then toss them al;i It's all part of a game for him. But James Bond! always take off his hat for you." 
So it seems that Bond uses his good looks ; smooth talk to charm his way into the hearts of m women, though they know that he probably wo never be interested in adopting a cat with th1 
Sophomore Katie Gorris met Pierce Brosnan wh was filming a movie at her high school in Pasad California, and she felt that "he was pretty darn looking." But Gorris insists that meeting Brosnan 
not change the course of her life. "My life is n9 ferent after meeting him, except that now I hav. autograph. It was a very superficial thing -th not a deep bond there." 
But while some would consent to being a Bon£~ just to witness 007's dashing smile, sopho , Seton Orscheln believes James Bond's "sex appe 
nil. I think he's ridiculous. I just don't go for thos~ Gadget-types." Orscheln doesn't think Bond's gadgets make him any more attractive, but women believe that his gadgets are part of his ap 
Sophomore Karen Lorenz says that "the cool Bond gets from Q are what makes him attracti it's the toys that make the man." But, Lorenz "Timothy Dalton wasn't hot." Carroll agrees that Bond's gadgetry is fas 
ing. "James Bond is cool -he's got cool He's got a cool car -that car is up ther Batman's car. Chicks love the car," C noted. Carroll and Pendergass shared rankings of the sexiest Bonds. "First, Connery-no question about that one! S Pierce Brosnan -whoa! Third, Ti Dalton. Fourth, Roger Moore -Roger better Bond than Timothy, but not as Fifth, George Lazenby." 
As one theology major explained, "James movies are just a fantasy, and you can't relate th real life. But maybe they are valuable becaus help us imagine that maybe there really is a J Bond out there somewhere. He's a secret agent who will one day just charge into your life and the world and give you some pretty good nook a same time." Or. at least. let you play with some gadgets. 


Friday, November 17, 1995 The Observer•WEEKEND page 13 
t t~ t 


By KRISTEN DOYLE 
Accent Writer 
B 
ond is back in full screen force this month with a fresh face in Pierce Brosnon. The ul­tinmtl~ symbol of suave and so­phistication. bravery, and cun­ning returns in the November 17 release of "Goldeneye." Dirnetor Martin Campbell ("No Eseapt~") sticks to the tradition­al Bond formula. A handsome spy is 1:alled to save the world from an indomitable force of evil by the lwad of the secret servk11. The spy prepares his brilliant strategy, breaking only to enjoy the carnal pllla­sures of his fast-paced and ex­('iting lifestyle. The spy fear­lessly defeats an adversary t~rnploying his sheer physical strength and mental prowess. Although CampiH~ll claims that he tried to make the 1995 Bond thriller morll "gritty" than its pred!lr.llssors. don't fret Yl!t pets. To be sure, "Goldeneye" will deliver the same cheesy combination of 


Movie 
Dr. No 
From Russia with Love 
Goldfinger 
Thunderball 1965 
You Only Live Twice 
ood did 


On Her MaJesty's Secret Service 1969 

dif­his re's 
Diamonds are Forever Guy n 
girl orn 
Live and Let Ole 1973 
d is 
Guy ~.C!nl.!~_t_9[1

Mr. 
The Man with the Golden Gun 19"4:-: -_ · -<
•tcy 'wr 
Guy t.tamlltoa 

a. I. 
The Spy Who Loved Me 
1977
un· 
Is. 
Moonraker 
~t­
n·. 
For Your Eyes Only 
1981 
th Ill ir 
Never Say Never Again 
Ill 
d. 
Octopussy 1983 
II~ 
lohn Glen 

y. 
A VIew to a Kill "-1985 
John Glen

HI 
to 
The Living Daylights 1987 
ey 
john Glen

leS 

glitz, girls, and gadgets. 
Timeless and unchanging, the mythical dimensions of James Bond have captured the imaginations of movie-goers for 33 years. But the character of agent 007 was created al­most a decade earlier with the publication of the first Bond adventure "Casino Hoyale" by Ian Fleming, the journalist­turned wartime British Naval Intelligence administrator­turned novelist. Fleming's se­cret intelligence background suggests. to the delight of many 
fu~.ili~j~tm~beilieBood 
exploits are true. Maybe agent 007 was someone Fleming knew, or maybe even Fleming himself. 
Sorry for the disappointment. but Fleming was more of a desk chair warrior than a heroic undercover spy. Actually. he was most noted for his truly exceptional ability to write inter-office memos. This is not to say that Fleming pos­sessed none of Bond's person­ality trademarks. Educated at Eton, he too was witty, hand­some, and athletic. He had many girlfriends during his 

...as Theme Song James Bond and Singer 
n Connery Bond Theme 

le Bianchi 'FromJ~~~~:e;7,~;~:·;·:.::'_,~ 
Sean Connery· ~Black"' ~dffn~~=::CL..; 
Sean Connery . ~Jluf"ii(rbl-­
-. . 9111.19~-· . 
n Connery ~:~?'"' J Y~~'i;,gplyFra~k~~!tra George Lazenby Telly Savalas, --Vjii}iave All the Time In the IA/n.flf P:Jana Rigg ._ 1 L:;;/, _ Lquls Armstrong 
Sean Connery ]:l~~~~~h;~'Diamo~hfr~~=y 
Roger Moore Jane Seymour Live and Let Dle 
Roger Moore ~~~!~:IIJiitlre ftfiJ~a~~~f2~iJ'en Gun 
Roger Moore Richard Kiel Nobody Does It Better 
'"· '" ___ 'l:mw-· , Carley Simon Roger Moore 
~-,:~'~@~;{i.;~:JI Moonraher_ 
RogeiMoore Carole ~~~~quet·'-""' For Yours~!!e6:,;ssey Sheena Easton Sean Connery Kim Basingei_::~r:.xjNever Say Never Again ­. "'· -· --d~ Lani Hall Roger Moore Louis Jourdan All Time High S!~v~rt.6.~r.kQff. ____ _. _ _ Rit~ Coolidge ~oger Moore Tanya Roberts-:A VIew to a Kill ,A Chrastopher Walken Duran Duran Timothy Dalton Maryam d'Abo The Living Daylights Aha 
person connec­tions in the spy world. The camp provided instruction in code-breaking, radio-trans­mission, judo, gunfire and bomb-planting. The underwa­ter training he received is em­ployed in the plots of "Live and Let Die" and "Doctor No." 
Fleming died in 1964. He left behind the adventures of a plastic hero, mediocre in liter­ary merit, but nonetheless ex­ceptional in escapism potential. 
early years as a British aristo­crat, enjoying fast cars and lav­ish dining long after his adoles­cence. However, a nagging puritanical nature constantly prevented him from realizing the existence of his fictitious alter-ego. 
An invitation to a secret training camp in Toronto proved that not only did Fleming lack the carefree de­meanor necessary for a true Bondian life of debauchery, but he also lacked Bond's killer in­stinct. While he excelled in training, his instructor claimed "he just hadn't got the temper­ament for an agent or a gen­uine man of action." 
Agent 007 was more the product of Fleming's wildly ac­tive, almost puerile, imagina­tion. While in Lisbon in 1941 with his boss, Admiral John Godfrey, the two men spent an evening gambling at a chic casino. Fleming commented dreamily, "Just suppose those fellows were German agents," referring to another pair of gentlemen at the table, "What a coup it would be if we cleaned them out entirely." 
ctua y, t e men were Portuguese businessmen and not Nazi agents, but life just seemed that much more excit­ing to Fleming when danger was involved, even if it was only imagined. This real-life occurrence provided a basis for a scene in "Casino Hoyale," only when Fleming lost all of his cash he went home, while Bond was promptly provided with a wad of crisp new bills. 
Fleming did, however, derive much of the material for his novels from his intelligence 

tan 
License to Kill 1989 .-,)_:~Timothy Dalton Robert Davi -License to Kill 
ave 
john Glen S~ Muriel Hemmingway Gladys Knight
the ; his 
Goldeneye 1995 Pierce Brosnan Famke Jenkins Goldeaeye Tina Turner



,­
1 I page 14 The Observer•WEEKEND Friday, November 17, 1995 
That Old Bond _Magic 
The Evolution 

A New Bond?
of a Myth 

By KRISTA NANNERY sexist, misogynist dinosaur, a Izabella Scorupco, is beingBy ANDREW NUTTING Accent Editor relic of the Cold War." billed as the best Bond villai­
Accent Writer 
I
n all reality, James Bond should be dead. He's gone through hundreds of fights, thousands of women, enough vodka marti­nis to drown an elephant, more cigarettes than anyone needs, not to mention 18 movies, and (gasp) a marriage. Even more fabulous is the fact that Bond has outgrown four different actors (not counting the "Casino Royale" phonies) yet holds onto his immense popularity. Here's a quick guide to this quartet of thes­pians and their accomplishments as Bond ... James Bond. 
The series kicked off with Sean Connery, still the most beloved of the four Bonds. Connery was a virtual unknown when he took the part of Ian Fleming's super spy in 1962's "Dr. No," an inexpensive B-movie featuring none of 
the high-tech gadgets today's Bond ""~'~llillll$lioi;;fiJI-· Russian arms dealers,
fans are accustomed to. Connery's next was "From Russia with Love," a favorite of many old fans and not coinci­dentally the only 007 movie in which Bond doesn't penetrate an enemy base. "Goldfinger," often labeled best of the series, fol­lowed, creating the standard gadget-laden, bad-guy-out-to-con­quer-the-world scheme of nearly every ensuing Bond film. 
After "Thunderball" and "You Only Live Twice," Connery grew tired of Bond and gave up the role. After just one non-Connery Bond picture, though, the Scotsman was convinced to return for 1971's "Diamonds Are Forever," by far Connery's dullest Bond outing. In 1983, after a long absence from the role, Connery returned in "Never Say Never Again," a "Thunderball" remake that delighted many of the series' older fans. 

.. Connery established Bond as both a determined, intelligent killer, and a sleek, charming ladies' man, punctuating many mo­ments of violence with goofy one-liners. He left the series with enormous shoes to fill. 
Which George Lazenby didn't do. Lazenby was an Australian model with no acting experience when he took over the role in 1969's "On Her Majesty's Secret Service," the Bond movie in which James is wed (to Diana Rigg, now the host of TV's "Mystery!"). His per­formance was hammered by critics and fans at the time, so severely that Lazenby quit and Connery returned to the role. Nowadays, though, "On Her Majesty's Secret Service" is viewed as one of the very best Bond films. Wonders never cease. 
After "Diamonds are Forever," the series' pro­ducers deemed Connery too old to play the virile secret service agent, choosing Roger Moore, almost three years Connery's senior, as his suc­cessor. Moore kicked off with "Live and Let Die," a combination of Bond and blaxploitation movies of the early '70s (all it needed was a theme song by Isaac Hayes). Moore's talents lay in comedy, and Bond's image was altered to suit him. Bond became wittier and less grim, and his supporting characters often were goofier than necessary (note Sheriff J.W. Pepper of "Live and Let Die" AND "The Man With the Golden Gun"). Despite routine jeers for making Bond films too funny, younger Bond fans loved Moore, and he held on to the role until the tender age of 57. 
Moore's run as Bond was inconsistent at best. Besides the mediocre "Live and Let Die," he starred in three great Bond movies ("The Spy Who Loved Me," "For Your Eyes Only," and "Octopussy") and Bond's three worst movies ("The Man with the Golden Gun," "Moonraker," and "A View to a Kill"). 
Timothy Dalton, a Welsh Shakespearean actor, played Bond in two movies: 1987's "The Living Daylights" and 1989's "License to Kill." Both episodes featured an almost monogamous Bond practically devoid of humor. Fans of Connery who gagged over Moore's smugness celebrated Dalton's stern portrayal of 007. praising the series' "salvation" from self-parody. However, Dalton did not appear to greatly enjoy playing Bond, and his two installments fared poorly at the box office. He retired from the role, returning 

-r to the stage. 
Despite what many say, Dalton's outings were two of the better Bonds. "The Living Daylights" was taut, exciting, and tense; "License to Kill" showed both Bond's human side and a more realistic villain. this time a Panamanian drug dealer desiring lots of cash. not world domination. 

Dutch actress Famke Janssen 
B 
ond is back. Six years plays Xenia Onatopp, a seduc­and five James' later, tive ex-Soviet assassin who he's back. "Goldeneye," supposedly uses her thighs to the 18th James Bond squeeze her lovers to death. movie since he first appeared (Rumor has is she's got brains, in 1962 (19th if you count too.) And the other female star, Woody Allen's "Casino Royale"), opens today in the­aters across the nation. Advance publicity is making this Bond adventure out to be one of the most action-packed installments in a long time. 
"Goldeneye" is 130 min­,. utes of chase scenes, 
martinis, Aston Martins, baccarat, and, of course, the quintessential Bond ladies. "Goldeneye" is just chock full of women, from Miss ( Moneypenny, played \ by actress Samantha Bond (no relation, ' really), to the new M for the '90s, Judi Deneb. You know this is a new era of Bond when M can tell him, "I think you are a ness ever. 
"Goldeneye" travels the globe, making Bond into a truly international hero. In the course of the film, he hits Monte Carlo, London, Cuba, St. Petersburg, and Siberia. 
But regardless of Bond chicks, tricks, gadgets, or lo­cales, one of "Goldeneye's" biggest draw should prove to be ex-"Remington Steele" star, Pierce Brosnan. He's got an Italian suit, a laser-powered James Bond Omega watch and a BMW -possibly making him the best Bond since Sean 
Connery. But public opinion 
will decide on that one. 
Whatever the case, 
"Goldeneye" should be a 
bigger box office success 
than the last two Bond 
outings which starred 
Timothy Dalton as 
Bond. The question is, 
will Brosnan's Bond for 
the '90s be as appeal­
ing and exciting as 
"Goldfinger" and 
"Thunderball"? 

The Women of Bolld 
By JOEY CRAWFORD Assistant Accent Editor 

W
y have James Bond films become a permanent fixture n American society for the past 33 years? Is it because f the dangerously calm James Bond? Are the zany nventions of Q the root of this fixation? Or is it the fast­paced adventure laced with brutal violence that attracts millions of viewers to these films? Arguably, these reasons all contribute to the popularity of the Bond movies, but what really attracts -audiences. especially male audiences, is the Bond-girls._) With names like Pussy Galore. Kissy Suzuki, Holly '-Goodhead, Plenty O'Toole, Honeychile Rider, and now Xenia Onatopp, it is easy to see the fascination with these strange, yet exotic women of the silver screen. j Apparently, martinis are not the only thing Mr. Bond likes "shaken. not stirred." James Bond enjoys sleek 
cars, sleek clothing, and sleek women. 
The most famous Bond girl is Ursulla Andress. She 
starred as Honeychile Rider in the premier James 
Bond movie, "Dr. No." Many famous actresses have 
attempted to achieve the same presence as Andress 
-some have come close, but few have succeeded. 
; 
Among these famous bikini-clad women of Bond are 
I/ Tanya Roberts, Kim Basinger, Jane Seymour, and 
··ji>-4 Grace Jones. Grace Jones? She appeared in "A 
View to Kill," as the psychopathic villainess who
I 
broke Bond's heart as well as his body. 
. The women of the James Bond films have a cer­
" tain image, a certain look, and a certain appeal.
I " ·; They are characterized by their strength, their intel­
ligence. and their bikinis. Yet the mold in which the Bond girls 
are cast is not archetypically feminine. They are not passive 
individuals who are destined to be house wives. rather they take 
what they want, when they want it. They are free and equal 
rather than dependent on some male figure. The Bond girls also bring the film to another level. creating the subtext of a quasi-love story. Their sexuality contrasts as well as compliments the violence of the film. 
The new Bond film opens today, with the new James Bond "chick" played by the rising young star­let, Famke Janssen. She plays the Russian assassin who takes sexual pleasure in crushing her vic­tims (lovers) to death with her legs. Janssen brings the strength and cunning of the Bond women to her role as the latest villainess to tangle with 007. She even took her character so seriously that she actually injured a fellow actor during a scene. 
Will the new Bond, played by Pierce Brosnan. be able to withstand this vixen's violent aggressions as his predecessors have for 33 years? "Goldeneye" promises to provide a new segment of the fast­paced, gadget-filled Bond story. And if that doesn't hold your interest, don't forget about the new cast of the women 007 loves to love. 
Today Pierce Brosnan makes his long awaited debut as James Bond number five. Will he be able to pull in high box-office 
'P~tt t6't6i'Bbsirver9ffice orii~ii tftlrd ll®r 'Qf receipts and please the Bond purists of the '60s? Go out and de­ps (yes, that is the mystery gift) will be cide for yourself. 
..-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, November 17, 1995 
The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 

G'town pastes Colgate 
Associated Press A 13-0 run to start the second half put the game away for good. The har­
It look 10 minutes for Georgetown's ried Hed Raiders committed 28 high-oetane offense to get into gear. turnovers and the 1-Ioyas had 19 steals. Tlwn Allen Iverson made a steal, and a Malik Cupid had 15 points to lead freshman guard did the rest. Colgate, which blew any chance of an 
Vietor Page seored 18 points in his upset with poor outside shooting over eollngiate debut and center Othella the lloyas' match-up zone early in the Harrington led Georgetown with 21 as game. the fifth-ranked lloyas sped past Georgetown will play Temple in the Colgate 106-57 Thursday night in the second round on Saturday. first round of the Preseason NIT. 
Vaughn wins AL MVP 
By BEN WALKER as an All-Star outfielder for the Indians, Associated Press who had the best record in baseball. Vaughn received 12 first-plaee votes, NEW YORK 12 seconds and four thirds for a total of 
Mo Vaughn beat out Albert Belle for 308 points. Belle got 11 first-place the AL MVP award Thursday in one of votes, 10 seconds and seven thirds for the closest elections ever, a vote that 300 points. !lad just one more first­called into question whether the place vote ehanged positions, Belle Cleveland star's surliness cost him . would have won. 
The two sluggers tied for the AL RBis Seattle designated hitter Edgar lead with 126. Belle, however, led the Martinez received four first-place votes 
Boasting a host of spnedy guards, Ceorgetown eoaeh John Thompson unveiled a mueh-unticipated high­tempo game. There were several kinks -turnovers and blown defensive assignments -in the early going. Colgate had lillie trouble with the full­eourt press and led by as many as 9 before a series of plays around the 10­minute mark turned the game around. 
After a Colgate basket, Iverson stole the ball in the baekcourt and hit the layup to dose the score to 21-20 with 'J:SH to go in the half. The Hed Haiders then had to use a timeout when they couldn't get the ball inbounds, had troublt~ gelling off a shot, and llarringlon eame back the other way with a layup to give Georgetown a lead it wouldn't relinquish. 
Iverson, who had 11 points and five steals, hit a 3-pointer before leaving the game tmnporarily with a eut about his left eye, and Page lnd the offense as the lloyas finished off a 17-4 run on the way to a 41J-39 halftime lead. 
Temple 65, Rider 62 
Marc Jackson scored 17 points and Temple overcame a 34-point perfor­mance by Hider's Charles Smith in defeating the Broncs 65-62 in the open­ing round of the Preseason NIT Thursday night. 
The Owls, opening their tOOth sea­son, will meet the Georgetown-Colgate winner on Saturday. 
Smith, a 6-foot-6 junior, _scored the Broncs' first 22 points and had 24 at the half as Temple Jed 31-26. 
The Owls held a 51-38 lead with nine minutes remaining, but Rider went on a 20-7 run. Smith scored the final six points of the run to make it 58-58 at the 4:13 mark. 
Jackson's layup gave Temple a 64-60 lead with 1:58 to play. After Bob Fisicaro's jumper with 37 seconds remaining made it a two-point game, Levan Alston made one of two free throws 17 seconds later for the final margin. 
majors with 50 home runs in the short­ened season and became the first play­er to get 100 extra-base hits since Stan Musial in 1948. 
Belle has earned a reputation, howev­er, for being uncooperative and down­right rude to reporters -who do the voting. lie is expected to be penalized by major league baseball later this month for verbally abusing a television reporter during the World Series, although that outburst came after all 28 ballots were returned. 
A letter that accompanies the official ballot to members of the Baseball Writers Association of America lists the five rules -which have remained un­changed since the original ballot in 1931 -to consider. The third guide­line: "General character, disposition, loyalty and effort." 
Vaughn, regarded by media members and fans as one of the nice guys in baseball, hit .300 with 39 home runs as the first baseman for the AL East cham­pion Boston Red Sox. Belle batted .317 

and was third with 244 points and Indians reliever Jose Mesa got the other first-place vote and was fourth. 
The eight-point margin between Vaughn and Belle was the ninth closest in MVP history, and the closest since Willie Sturgell and Keith Hernandez tied for the 1979 NL honor. 
The tightest AL election also involved a question of character when Joe DiMaggio beat Ted Williams 202-201 in 1947. Williams won the Triple Crown that season, but was left off the tO­place ballot by a Boston writer who did not like the Red Sox star. The voting was done was by 28 writers -two from each league city. 
Jack O'Connell, who covers the New York Yankees for The Hartford Courant, said he listed Vaughn first, Cy Young winner Randy Johnson of Seattle sec­ond and Belle third on his ballot. 
"I'd like to think character didn't make a difference in my vote," O'Connell said. "But it could have. Subconsciously, it might have." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
For more information and assis­
tance regarding the invesligation of 
financing. business opportunities 
and work-at-home opportunities, 
contact the Better Business Bureau 
of M1ch1ana. 52303 Emmons Rd.. 
Suile 9. South Bend. IN 46637· 
4200: or call the BBB at219/277­
9121 or 800/439·5313. 
Baby Siller Mother ol 2 will take care children of ages 0·4 years. 273-4933. 
Spnng Break Bahamas Party CrUisel Early Specials! 7 Days $27911ncludes 15 Meals & 6 Parties! Great Beaches/Nighllife! Prices Increase 11/21 & 12/151 Spnng Break Travel 1-800-678· 6386 
Spnng Break! Panama City! Early Specials! 8 Days Oceanview Room With Kitchen $1291 Walk To Best Bars! Key West $2591 Cocoa Beach Hilton $1691 Pnces Increase 11/21 & 12/151 1·800·678·6386 
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break Specials! 111% Lowest Price Guarantee! 7 Nights Air From South Bend & Hotel From $4191 Book Earlyl Save $100 On Food/Drinksl Spring Break Travel1·800-678­6386 
Traveling east on Rl 80/Pa TP past Susqu. River for xmas. I need a ride-Call Jared@ X0508 
• • Spnng Break • • TO MAZATLAN, MEXICO from $399. A1rn nights hotel. Free night­ly parties/discounts. Call Ron 800­288·0328 
ILOST & FOUND I 
My little black Olympus camera 
(with a lull roll ollilm) has been 
missing since Oct. 31. Please call 
Anne at 273-8575. Thanks! 
'LOST' 
Black Pagemart Motorola Pager. 
Has been reported lost to the com­
pany and is now 1naclive. 
Its return would be appreciated. 
II found please call Nikole at 
4·1265. Thankyou. 
1111111 LOST 11111111 Prescription Glasses Brown/orange and black around lenses. Thin gold frames. Light weight lenses. Lost during last week of Oct-now. Call Mike@ 10782 
LOST: Small roundish green sunglasses -prescription -kind of valuable -lost btwn Lafortune and DeBartolo Tues 2:45 Call277-3201 Patrick. 
LOST: pair of gold hoop earrings, pair of pearl earrings, gold necklace with heart charm, and diamond ring. WHERE: Alumni Hall WHEN: Friday night -11/10 CONTACT: X-1407 with any info. 
Found: Gloves in NDH on 11/13 Call x1678 
Navy Alorna Coat 
and 
Navy J.Ashlord Sweater taken from Senior Bar on Thurs., 11/9. PLEASE return-I'M FREEZINGIIII No questions asked ..Maria X4034 
LOST: CALCULUS BOOK & NOTEBOOK IN COPY SHOP IN LAFORTUNE ON MONDAY, NOV. 13. 
RETURN TO MAIN DESK IN LAFORTUNE OR CALL 233-8273 & LEAVE MESSAGE. 
FOUND: Ladies watch on North Quad. To claim. call Mike @ 0675. 
LOST: SOMEONE MISTAKENLY TOOK MY CALCULUS BOOK AND NOTEBOOK ON MONDAY. 11/13, FROM THE COPY SHOP IN LAFORTUNE. PLEASE CALL HANY 233·8273 OR TAKE TO LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK. 
WANTED 
Two genial guys need a ride home 
to Eastern Mass. for Xmas break. 
Will spilt gas/tolls/etc. Give one of 
us a ride, or even better, bring us both. Call Tom x1173 or Marty 
x3419 
• • • FREE TRIPS & CASH ' ' • Find out how hundreds ol students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with America's #1 Spring Break compa­ny! Sell only 15 trips and travel free! Choose Cancun, Bahamas, Mazallan, or Florida! CALL NOW! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAV­EL (800)95-BREAKI 
Roomate needed lor 2nd sem. 
Male Grad. stu. pref. Nice 2br apt. 
near campus $280/mo. 277-3107 
1 Time Cash Offer Transfer computer files from Mac to IBM. Set up PageMaker 5.0 in IBM. 
Greatpay.273-1952 
Will Pay $ For Used Mac Nonprofit needs used computers. Good price. 273·1952 
NEED A RIDE TO ANYPLACE NEAR ROCHESTER,NY (AT 90)? justin, 233-1259 
Wanted!\ Individuals. Student Organizations to Promote SRING BREAK Earn MONEY and FREE TRIPS CALL INTER-CAMPUS PRO· GRAMS http://www.1cpt.com 
1-800-327-6013 
WANTED FOR XMAS GIFT: Video tapes of 1995 ND Football Season. NAME YOUR PRICE. 402·551-8436 
PART-TIME BRANCH CLERK American General Finance, one of the leading consumer finance orga­nizations, is seeking a responsible individual to fill a part-time Branch Clerk position in our South Bend office. The Branch Clerk provides routine office and clerical support to the branch. Flexible around school hours. For immediate consideration please call 291-1019. Equal Opportunity Employer. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Desperately need to get home for Thanks Giving II Anyone Driving to: MD/DCNA area 'will drive & pay tolls' please call -Emile 277-5073 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED A RIDE TO ANYPLACE 
NEAR ROCHESTER,NY (AT 90)? justin. 233-1259 
FOR RENT 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR ND 
232-2595 
THAT PRETTY PLACE. Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football wknds. 5 rooms with pri­vate baths. Located in Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. 1·800-41 8­9487 
Comfortable 2 Bdrm home. 1 mi. to campus. $450/mo. Call Chuck Majcher at 273·0860. 
ROOMMATE WANTED: To share 2-bdr. house w/ F Grad student and dog. near campus, wash/drier. quiet neighborhood. $150/mo +. Call Jackie 232-7970 READY NOW FOR SPRING SEMESTER 3-4 Bedroom 2 blks from campus Newly remodeled with WID DW Fridge Stove Huge Yard Full Basement and Monitored Security Sys Included $240/person or $900/mo Will help individuals needing a room. Call Mike @ 233-9609 for details 
ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE HOME FOR 
ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. CALL 272-6194 AM OR 232-9620 PM 
& ASK FOR SANDY. 
6 BDRM HOME NEAR ND. NEXT FALL.272-6306 
FOR SALE 
"'-.-.-.-.-.-.... -.-.-.... -.-.-*-*-.-.-*-.... Hey Ski Buffs ... ND Ski Team T-shirts Only $101 Call today and receive your shirt folded for no extra charge! Wowl Potter @ 232-2955 
.-.-.-....-.-.-.-.-.-.. -.-.-.-.-.-....-.-.-. 
GREAT CHRISTMAS GIFT IDEAl Give a child you know the gift of reading. Colorful and unique per­sonalized books for children. 15% student discount. Call1-800-375­3340. 24 hr. recorded message gives details. 
KITIEN KITIEN KITIENI!I Adorable 6 mos. old Kitten Call Immediately!! 273-4166 FREE FREE FREE FREE 
PERSONAL 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center 
We're open for your convenience! II Mon-Thur: 7:30am -Midnight Fri.: 7:30am -7:00pm Sat.: Noon -6:00pm Sun.: Noon-Midnight 
(closed home football Saturdays) 
0o0a0a0a0a0o0o0o0o0o0 
QUALITY COPIES. QUICKL VIII THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0 
I need a ride to north NJ for Thanksgiving. Will help with driving and$$$ Lara X2550 
""'HEY JOHN HALL'"" HAPPY CHEERLEADERS! HAPPY FIRETRUCKI HAPPY BIRTHDAY! 304-306 

Lord Vader, this Is an unexpected pleasure. We're honored by your presence. You may dispense with the pleas­antries, Commander. I'm here to put you back on schedule. I assure you, Lord Vader, my men are working as fast as they can. Perhaps I can find new ways to motivate them. I tell you, this station will be opera­tional as planned. The Emperor does not share your optimistic appraisal of the situation. But he asks the impossible. I need more men. Then perhaps you can tell him when he arrives. The Emperor's coming here? That is correct. Commander. And he is most displeased with your apparent lack ofprogress. We shall double our efforts. I hope so, Commander, for your sake. The Emperor is not as forgiv­ing as I am. 
St. Jude: thank you for prayers answered. :) 
Best wishes to the Women's Soccer team as they take on Wisconsin­Sun. 1pm @ Alumni Field. GO IRISH I 
I can take riders to Iowa -Leaving Tues. Molly x3490 
Hello APATHY! FILL OUT YOUR ENTERTAIN· MENTPOLLS! FROM TUESDAY'S OBSERVER! MAIL THEM TO US CAMPUS MAIL! OR PICK ONE UP FROM The Big 0 on the third floor of LaFun. TODAY! FIGHT THE APATHY! 
forget it. i need a nap. 

Joey· Don't be crabby. You rock! 
Happy Birthday Marcie, Love 4th Floor Farley 
Anne, I miss you. M.W. 

ADOPTION A wonderful home awaits your baby. Happily married, financially secure couple will give much love. Expenses paid. Call Margaret or Peter at 800-529-8386. 
Have a Legendary birthday Adami! 
ADOPTION ... INTERESTED IN HEARING MORE?? Warm, professional Indiana couple, lots of experience with children, would love to talk to you about what we can offer your precious child. Stability. nurturing, love of learning, travel, lots of extended family, and full-time mom are just some of the things that your child would experi­ence in our home. Interested in hearing more? CALL US (day or night). Expenses paid. Theresa & Lee 1-800-600-8428. 
hey, i missed the scholastic yester­day. yeah, me too. wait... no I didn't nah. me neither. 
ADOPTION: Loving, financially secure professional couple wishes to adopt. Your baby would be cher­shised and loved in a warm and happy home. Let us help you. We can provide medical, legal, counsel­ing. approved living expenses. Call Cindy or Stan at 1-800-752-1636, or attorney Glenna 1-800-241-5384. Confidential. 
J.M.H. in Am. 303 Happy Birthday. 
Thanks for last night! You sure know how to use your beeper and pump. Donna 
Wanted-Attractive, Funny Scorpio­must love Meijer, Toyota Trucks and 4am goodnights-Call Virgo if interested. 
Kidde, 
One more after this, then Its off to beautiful Malibu. Although, I doubt I'll be getting any terrycloth robes. maybe a missle or two. though. 
-An Illinois Farmer 

Hi Tenille Love. Dave Tyler 
What is your name? What Is your quest? What Is your favorite color? 
Look around your dorm this week­end lor our petition to President Clinton and Congress about the budget issue and welfare reform 
John really needs to get a sense ol humor. So the office was rearranged -DEAL! 
I am holding the sea monkeys hostage. 
Hi Gretchen and Meghani! We miss you. Hope you're having fun down under. Love, The Girls of BP 
I say bye bye ... see you later;) 
After over a year together. the famed Thursday night sports team 
has produced their last section. 

---------~---------------· ·---------~---.......!
r 
I 
I 
I I I 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, November 17, 1995 
•NFL 
Bears hope to end skid 
ByRICKGANO 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
Go to the playoffs or perhaps go to the unemployment line. That's the ultima­tum to Detroit coach Wayne Fontes, one issued by team owner William Clay Ford. 
It comes under the "What Have You Done For Me Lately" category so preva­lent in coaching. Forget that Fontes has produced two division titles and three playoff teams since 1991. 
The 1995 Lions are 4-6, their defense is in disarray, so much so that Fontes became engaged in a heated sidelines discussion with defensive coordinator Herb Pattera during last week's 27-24 win over Tampa Bay when the Lions didn't stick with their initial game plan. 
Fontes, who brushed off the incident with Pattera, said he's felt the pressure to win before. 
"I don't think it's different for me," he said. "I've been going through this for seven years straight and in the last four years we've produced two division championships and I'm not worried at all. 
"When the season is over, I'm sure Mr. Ford and I will sit down and talk. Until that time I'm ready to play the game." 
The game this week is against the Chicago Bears in Soldier Field. Chicago coach Dave Wannstedt is not under any such edict to win or be removed, but he's feeling the heat, also from the poor play of his defense. 
The Bears (6-4) were ready to take a two-game lead in the NFC Central two weeks ago, but faltered against Pittsburgh and lost in overtime. Then they were beaten by the Packers last week when a hobbled Brett Favre threw five touchdown passes against an 
HOT. 
Burn, baby, burn-disco inferno. 
MAC. 
Not the burger, pal-the killer computer. 

Cheap. Not as cheap as a taco, but hey. 
Being astudent is hard. So we've made buying aMacintosh" easy. So easy, in fact, that prices on Macintosh personal computers are now even lower than their already low student prices. And with the Apple" Computer Loan and 90-Day 
injury-depleted secondary. 
"It's a game -if we want to contend for this thing at the end -this is a must win," said Bears quarterback Erik Kramer. 
But at 4-6, the Lions need a win even more. They must take five of their last six to get into the playoffs, if not all six. When Fontes first heard of Ford's ul­timatum, he told his players to concen­trate on the game 
"I went into the meeting room and said, 'Guys don't ever win for the Gipper. Don't worry about me, I've gone through this. Being a head coach here, it's just a way of life,' " Fontes said. 
"I never walked into a team meeting and said, 'Guys I'm under great pres­sure here to do this now.' That's not necessary ... If we win them aU, we go 10-6. If we don't, hopefully we'll go 9-7 and I think 9-7 will get us into the play­offs." 
That's optimism at its finest. 
The Bears have the No. 2 scoring offense in the NFL at 28 points a game and the Lions, who gave up 411 yards to Tampa Bay, have the 27th worst scoring defense. But Detroit has the No. 9 scoring offense at 23.6 and the Bears the 26th worst scoring defense. 
Last season at Soldier Field, the Bears found a way to stop Barry Sanders, who will be playing his 100th NFL game this Sunday. Chicago held the ball for more than 44 minutes and Sanders got only 11 carries for 42 yards during a 20-10 Bears victory. 
"I've never been involved in a game like that, it was really disappointing. They pretty much iced us out of it by holding onto the ball," said Sanders, who needs 26 yards Sunday to become just the second back in NFL history to rush for 1,000 yards in each of his first seven seasons. Eric Dickerson is the other. 


It was midsummer. the start the NFLreg'Ulttr. s~ason we~ks ~way. Oakland's<new coaching staff was try· ing to teach Raiders player~ a different offense C\9d (lSSim~t:t!e n~~ pl(lyer~ .on 
defense.··•·•· ':Jil\4>> il}!:/ib'''ill" J? ··· •·· •· .. ·······.ti 

Instead of seclpding themselves 
behind fences at a remote training 
camp, the Raiders flew>to Austin, 
Texas. to train with the Dallas Cow­
boys for a week. Coach Mike White 
wanted his players to see how they 
measured up against one of the 
league's elite teams. . 
''l.don't know to whatdegree we 
earned their respect. but it was good 
for us," White said. ''It was a key part 
of our puzzle as we approached the 
season. The week we spent with Dallas 
was a tremendous learning ex­
perience." 

Half a season later, White and his players get to find out exactly bow much they learned when the Cowboys · visit Oakland on Sunday. Both teams have 8·2 records, second best in the 
NFL. 

Sunday'$ game is the start of a 
round~robln among the league's best 
teams. After the Raiders and Cowboys 
clash, the Kansas City Chiefs (9-1) visit 
Dallas on Thursday. And then: the 
Chiefs play at Oakland on Dec. 3. 

"(ThE! Dallas game} is a measuring 
stick. We're going to see how we act 
and react," White said. "It really is a 
gauge for our team." 

The Cowboys will use the matchup as 
a way of measuring their psyches a 
week after being battered by the 
wounded San Francisco 49ers. Though 
the Cowboys still are two games better 


game 
:t¥t··-·· 
rival, they were stunned 0 loss at home to the 49ers. 

memory," said Emmitt Smith. "We're ·.getting ready to play a tough opponent, and ifwe don't put it behind us we'll 
be hurting again." 
Both quarterbacks come into the 
game hurting and listed as question­
able, though Troy Aikman and Jeff 
Hostetler are expected to play. Aikman 
has a bruised knee tendon, while the 
Raiders' Hostetler, a right-hander, has 
a broken bone in his left hand and a 
sore left shoulder. 
The game will feature a Dallas offen­
sive line considered the league's best 
against an Oakland defensive front that 
also might be tops in the NFL. Dallas is 
averaging 381 yards a game, including 
155 on the ground. Oakland is allowing 
305 yards a game, 102 on the ground. 
''The defensive front seven is a great 
group, they're great on run defense," 
said Smith, who with 1,237 yards has 
outrushed all but four NFL teams this 
season. "They're very aggressive on 
the pass rush and they're a great run­
stopping defense." 
The Raiders held Rodney Hampton to 
44 yards on 14 carries last week as the 
New York Giants got just 76 yards 
overall on the ground. 
"The guys (Smith) he has got in front 
of him make him a good runner. He 
sees the holes well," said Raiders 
defensive tackle Chester McGlockton. 
"We want to do the same thing we did 
last week against the Giants. make him 
work his ass off for every yard." 
"We've been too conservative with 
Deion," said Cowboys owner Jerry 
Jones. "We're going to open it up with 
him up (this) week. Deion said he is 
ready." 
StyleWriter· 1200 
Ink cartridge and cable induded 
Deferred Payment Plan, you can take home aMac~ without having to make asingle payment for up to 90 days.tWhich means you can also take home the ..
1 

power to make any student's life easier. The power to be your bese App1e .. 

Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB •631-7477 _M-F9am-5pm 

'Hey, you wou/dn1 giveyour money away to just anyone, wouldyou? Neither can we. Offers expirejanuary 15, 1996. No payment ofpn·ncipal or interest wdl be requiredfor 90 days. Interest accruing during this 90-day period will be added to the principal and will bear interest which will be induded in /be repayment schedule. 7be monthly payment quoted above is an estimate based on a total loan amount of$1,913.83, which includes asample purchase price of$1,799for the Performa 6214CD S)Ottbn shown above. The Iota/loan amount also includes a 6.0% loan origina­tion fee. Interest is variable based on /be Commercial Paper Rate plus aspread of635% For example, the month ofOcloher 1995 had an interest rate of12.17% with an annual percentage rate (APR) of1395% Monthly paymentfor the Iota/loan amount described above would be $32.86. Monthly paymmt and APR sbowrr assumes IW tkferment ofprincipal and does not lnclutk state or local sales tax. Monthly payments may vary depending on actual computer system prices, total loan amounts, state and local sales taxes, and a change In the monthly variable Interest rate. Prequalification expedites the loan process, but does not guarantee final loan approval. Subsequent acceptable verification documents must be received beforeyour loan is approL•ed. Wbew, pep quiz on Monday. ©1995 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, Macintosh and "The pcwer to beyour best" are registered trademarks ofApple Computer, Inc. Mac is atrademark ofApple Computer, Inc. CardShop Plus is a registered trademark ofMindscape. All Macintosh computers are designed to be acceosible to individu­als with disabdily. 7b learn more (US. only}, call 800-600-7808 or rrr800-755-0601. 
~------~--~------------------------------~----------~--~------------~--~------------------------------.-----------------­
Friday, November 17, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBAll 
Hoosier All-Stars to provide exhibition test 
By TODD FITZPATRICK SpumWritcr 
With one win under its belt. thn women's basketball team will go for two in a row when they face the Hoosier All-Stars Friday night at the JACC. 
The Hoosier All-Stars team eonsists of women who are from Indiana or women who played at Indiana schools. No­table team members include former Notre Damn stars Mar­garet Nowlin and Coqunsc Washington, who return to face their alma mater. Nowlin cur­nmtly works for Hnad Coach Muffet McGraw as an Irish as­sistant coach. 
MeGraw eagerly awaits the opportunity to make improve­nwnts before heading into her team's inaugural season in the Big East Conference. The Hoosier All-Star Team will be the last exhibition opponent of the season, so Notre Dame wil~ use this game to get ready for the Indiana Hoosiers in their lirst regular season matchup. 
"We've been working on re­bounding and man-to-man de­fense, especially in the transi­tion," said Coach McGraw. 
McGraw is pleased with her players' performanees at this point in the season. Therefore she plans to experiment very lit­tle with the starting lineup. 
"Our lineup is pretty set right now," eommented McGraw. 
Notre Dame played well enough to defeat Sopron (Hungary) by a 93-85 score on Saturday. Despite a late rally from Sopron, Notre Dame out­played them in virtually every aspect of the game. Especially impressive was a seeond half 
HaPPY 
~~21st •• 
BirthdaY 
Dave~ 
shooting percentage of 58 per­eent that resulted in 49 points for the half. 
Junior co-captain Beth Mor­gan sparked the Irish in the season opener by shooting 13 of 20 from the lield and scoring 33 total points. She also nailed all four of her free throws to raise the team average to nearly 81 percent. She hopes all of the team's hard work in practice, coupled with their positive atti­tude, will equal a successful season for the Irish. 
"We've been working really 
• SAINT MARY'S SWIMMING 

hard on defense, rebounding, and taking care of the ball. We are very optimistic about this season," commented Morgan. 
Although only six days have passed since their home opener, the Irish believe they have already made great strides heading into their second con­test of the season. 
"We've been working on exe­euting offense and transition defense. We're a lot better pre­pared for this game," said Senior Captain Carey Poor. 
This game will be the last 
tune-up for the Irish. The regu­lar season is just around the corner, and Notre Dame will be tested by some of the top teams in the country. 
With fewer than two weeks before their Big East opener against Rutgers, the Irish be­lieve they can be competitive in their inaugural season. Their performance tonight will hope­fully serve notice to the rest of the conferenee that the Irish are ready to win early and often against Big East foes. 
Belles travel to Wabash Invite 
By LAURIE KELLEHER Spons Wri£er 
After an exciting win over Calvin College this past week­end, the Saint Mary's swim­ming and diving team is ready to take on nine other teams at the Wabash Invitational Satur­day. Th,e women and tpeir coaches are looking forward to the meet coming off their re­cent win. 
"Since we have just won a meet, everybody is enthusiastic to ·compete again," said Captain Jen Mitchell. "We practiced even harder this week because we want to do even better this season." 
The main concern of the swimmers is that they may be broken down after working so hard. However they are much better prepared for this meet than the first few. They are so mentally into the meet that they should do well despite fatigue. 
"Since we have just won an exciting meet, we are mentally prepared as well as physically prepared," said Betsy Wright. ''I think we should do really well at this invitational." 

The Belles have not compet­ed in an invitational yet this season, so the format will be new to many of the swimmers. The team as a whole is looking forward to the change and hopes it will help enhance their performance. 
"This invitational will help prepare us for the Notre Dame Invitational in a few weeks," said Katie Rose. "The team will benefit from the experi­ence of the invitational and we hope it will help us do well at Notre Dame." 
~atcfj for 3risfj <E):tra in 
C£nonbaJJ 's <D6seroer 
r---------------------, 
I "A large crowd, a loud crowd, the home 
I
1 field advantage -that can make a I difference in a game as big as this one." 
I I -1/te .No.br.e :bame 'WomeH-'d. Socce/1. 1eam 
L---------------------~ 

Nationally-ranked No. 4
NCAA WOMEN'S SOCCER CHAMPIONSHIPS -SECOND ROUND 
. 

NOTRE DAME 
vs. 

...®... Nationally-ranked No. 18
1:00 P.M. I THIS SUNDAY 

CHJIMPIOIVSHIP 
Alumni Field -behind the Joyce Center WISCONSIN 



page 18 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, November 17, 1995 

Don't Get 
Left Out 
In The Cold 
Heat islncluclecl in Your Rent! 
Plus Gas For 
Cooking &Hot Water 
Efficiencies from $290 
1-Bedrooms from $305 
2-Bedrooms from $375 
24-Hr. Emergency Maintenance Free Aerobics Classes Attentive Staff Community Activities ;-'ool &Sundeck Clubhouse Air Conditioning Laundry Facilities Cable TV Available Beautiful Landscaping Close to Shopping 
Call or stop by today and v.e'll show you how great living at Hickmy Village can be. 
+llCKORlJ DlLLAC3Ef! 
Mon.-Fri. 8-6, Sat. 10-4 & Sun. 12-4 
NCAA 
continued from page 24 
best cross country teams in the nation, Notre Dame will need a strong performance. Luckily, the Irish have six ways to beat you, those being the top six runners. Seniors Joe Dunlop, Derek Martisus, and Seiling, junior Matt Althoff, sophomore Jason Rexing, and freshmen Antonio Arce have led the Irish to the NCAA championships. Different runners have had the opportunity to step up at differ· ent meets. All six have finished first or second for Notre Dame in at least one meet this year, and they all are looking for­ward to Monday. 
Team captain Joe Dunlop has been a little disappointed in the way he has run this season. He started the season strong by being the first Irish finisher at the Buckeye Invitational. Dun­lop thinks that despite the set­backs of this season, he is ready for the race on Monday. 
"I feel strong, and I did a little better at districts-1 was in the race longer than in the last cou­ple," Dunlop observed. 
Dunlop has felt overwhelmed at nationals in the past, but he says this year is different. He does not just want to get to na­tionals, he also wants to do well. "Since my mental attitude is better this year, I feel like I'm gonna do something special," Dunlop said. 
Dunlop said he is happy the thirteenth rated Irish are play­ing the role of underdog. "Nobody expects us to do it, so let's go out and do it. We have the weapons, let's use them," said the captain. "This team is one of the closest knit teams," Dunlop continued. "We have a 
EARN CASH by DONATING 
You could earn: 
$30°0aHer your first plasma donationI 
$15°0  if you donate alone (first visit)  
+$ 5°0  if you show college I.D. (first visit)  
+$1 000  per person if you recruit someone and they donate  

$30°0 TOTAL! Help Us Save Lives 
Must be 18 years old; proof of current address with photo 1.0. 
strong bunch of guys and we're coming together late in the sea­son...we're going to do some­thing special on Monday." 
Piane said the senior has done well. "He has done a good job, not only as a runner but as a captain," Piane said. 
Dunlop wants to do well not just for himself or the team. but for the seniors. "I'm going to think a little about my senior teammates," Dunlop said. "This is it for us.. .I want the seniors to finish well." 
Despite being sick at districts, Martisus has had a strong sea­son. "He's done a good job," head coach Joe Piane said. "He had one bad meet when he was sick." 
Martisus is confident the Irish will step it up a notch on Mon­day. "Our goal is to finish in the top four. In my last meet, I don't want to finish lower than fourth." 
Even though Martisus has run for four years and has run in the NCAA meet before, he thinks the highlight of his ca­reer is still to come. "My most memorable moment will be Monday," Martisus predicts. "This is going to be my last race, and I'm going to leave it all on the course." 
Also playing a key role on Monday is Seiling, a runner who has been the first Irish fin­isher the last four races of the season: Seiling thinks the Irish have an advantage over other 
Engagement Rings 
10%-15% OFF! Official Wholesale Price list! 

S.A. Peck & Co. 55 E. Washington, Chicago, IL 60602 For a Free 32-Page Color Cala/og 
Toll-Free (800) 922-0090 FAX (312) 977-0248 Internet Calalog al hnp: l!www.sapeck.com/sapeck 
teams competing . 

"Some teams might have one or two great guys and every­body else way back," Seiling noted. "We have more guys who can run up at the front." 
Seiling's approach to the race will be to stay loose and stay confident. "It's all mental, and how you believe in yourself will determine how far you go," he said. "I've been so focused on this season since I missed last season...that has helped me." 
As complimentary as Piane is with the seniors Dunlop, Mar­tisus, and Seiling, he has also been pleased with the non-se· niors members of the top six. "I've been happy with Althoff, Rexing, and the freshmen Arce," Piane complimented. 
Althoff was the first Irish run· ner to finish the National Catholic Invitational, and the third finisher at the district meet. Although he has not been satisfied with the way he has performed this season, Althoff feels that he and the team will peak on Monday. ''I'm really ready to run-I'm very excited to go to the NCAAs after a good race at districts. If we win hardware (the top four teams), we'll be ecstatic." 
Rexing played a big part in the district meet, as he was the second Irish finisher behind 

OF AMERICA 
Daily Delivery to Notre Dame and South Bend 
Don't forget to pick up flowers for this weekend~.s dance.L., 
1404 N. Ironwood Dr. South Bend, IN 46635 
(219) 288--3995 


Edison 

"All major credit cards accepted" CHARGE BY PHONE 


Seiling. Rexing noted he ran better Sunday, but thinks both himself and the team will do better on Monday than at dis­tricts. "I didn't think it was one of our better efforts," Rexing commented. "We can definitely improve." 
What is the goal for Rexing on Monday? "To get the team to place as high as possible," Rexing said. 
The only freshmen running for Notre Dame on Monday is Arce. "Arce is one of the better freshmen in the country," Piane praised. 
Among the participants in the NCAA championships are the top four teams in the nation, Oklahoma State, Wisconsin, Colorado, and Arkansas. The ten thousand meter meet will be run at 11:00 a.m. Ames time on Monday. Notre Dame is one of four Big East schools run­ning. 
Piane thinks the team can make a strong performance. "We run well as a group, and we have five guys with NCAA experience-not many teams can say that. If we can get five guys going at the same time, it's scary how good we can be." 
That way, even if the sun does not shine in Ames on Monday, the Notre Dame men's cross country team will. 
• * • • • • • 
'The Beat Tan Under The Sun" 
• Beds, Booths & Euros 
• 
Open 7 Days A Week 

• 
Convenient Hours 

• 
Student Discounts 


Guaranteed Satisfaction! 
256-9656 
GRAft k McKiNLEY 
NwK-MAirr 

Directed by Reginald Bain 
Wednesday, November 15 8p.m. Thursday, November 16 8p.m. Friday, November 17 8p.m. Saturday, November 18 8p.m. Sunday, November 19 2:30p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall 
Reserved Seats $8 

Student and senior citizen discounts are available for all perfonnances. Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. Mastert:ard and Visa Orders call631-8128 
...-------~------------·--~~------~~·-~--~--~ -~---------~-----~ ---~­
Friday, November 17, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 


Big East championship with their only hope of making it into the 48-team field lying in winning the tournament and clinching the automatic bid. 
"This is a must-win situation for us," Villanova coach Ron Twomey said. 
"We are hoping to get to Notre Dame," he continued. "They'll be favored to win, but you still have the match. It should be interesting." 
The tournament kicks off Sat­urday morning at 10 a.m. with a match between Twomey's fourth-seeded Wildcats and no. 5 St. Johns. Villanova brings an 8-3 conference record into the match, 18-9 overall. Sophomore middle blocker Stacey Evans lead the Wildcats with 330 digs, while freshman counterpart Megan O'Brien fol-6-1 outside hitter Jenna Panatier and 6-3 junior middle blocker Lynn Klein. 


Pittsburgh is looked at to have the greatest chance at upsetting the Irish as a champi­onship match-up between the Panthers and Irish looks proba­ble. The Irish have experience playing Pittsburgh in the post­season as they defeated them 9-15, 15-11, 15-13, 15-13 in the second round of last year's NCAA tournament. However, the Panthers will be looking to regain the reign of the confer­ence that they have held until the entrance of the Irish to the Big East. 
"We saw some success against them," Pittsburgh head coach and South Bend native Cindy Alvear said of their last couple of matches with the Irish. 
"We've never lost a Big East tournament, so we're looking forward to playing them again." 
The Panthers bring a 17-8 record into this weekend's tournament, 10-1 in the con­ference. They are highlighted by junior middle blocker Jennie Driscoll who leads Pitt with 326 kills and 54 total blocks. 
Brown said of the other five teams in the tournament. "Each team will enter this weekend with the belief that they could win." 
"They are going to play hard and hope to get us out of our system." 
The Irish have prepared for the Big East tournament by watching the videotapes of the matches against the five oppo­nents. Brown knows that al­though they know what to ex­pect out of the other teams, the other teams also know what to expect out of the Irish. 
"We have seen them all and they have seen us," Brown said. "They will look to do again what was successful against us and change what was not." 
The overall attitude of the Irish is intense and focused on the Big East tournament as a means of progressing toward a greater goal. 
"We are looking at each match as a chance to get better and better," Brown said. "And we are looking toward winning the tournament as a chance to move closer to the NCAA cham­pionship. 
~~ GREAT 'lYALL 


Voted #} Oriental Restaurant 1991, 1992, and 1993 
Szechwan•Cantonese•American Chinese Restaurant & Lounge Oren 7 days 
Banquet rooms 

Sunday Buffet Brunch-Every Sunday ­
a\lailable for 

$8.95 for Adults 
up to 200 

$3.95 for Children under 10 
(219) 27?~7376 • 130 Dixieway S. (U.S. 31 i[l Roseland) dt Randall's Inn Svuth Bend, INJ)
·­


Yl.PR..o.L
J)u~nn.e~ 
We've got yo~AI"' ~owel"'s fol"' this weekeV\d 's daV\ce 
*Lat'gest seledion of Ft'esh-c"'t 
t'oses *Daily delivet'}:' to camp"'s *St"'dent discol.-\nt *Located on cot'net' of edison 
and Jt'omvood *.All majot' ct'edit cat'ds C\Ccepted 
288-7551 
Completed by November 12  Completed by November 19  Completed by November 26  
Vanderbilt  
Kentucky  
Stanford  
Santa Clara  
usetts  
Hartford  
Minnesota  
TexasA&M  
Clemson  
NC State  
William & Mary  
Penn State  
 
James Madison  
UCLA  
Washington  
 


,_.--------~-----­
page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, November 17, 1995 
Hickory Smoked Ribs 
>~Shadu
Hickory Smoked Chicken 
'-'II St. Rd. 23 at Bittersweet Fried Chicken ~~ i'S; Granger, Indiana 
Tender Seafood 
\~,~0~
Grilled Steaks Deliciously Thick Pizza 
kR~~~ 
277-3143 
FA.MILY STYLE SPECIAL 
All you can eat Ribs and Chicken Dinner $7.49 for groups oflO or more PERFECT FOR SECTION DINNERS! 
LOCATED ON STATE RD. 23 AND BITTERSWEET 

FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 & 9:45 PM 
CrosED MoNDAY 

World Wide Web<http://www.nd.edu/-cothweb/wwwsnite.html> 
L___________________________________________________ 
Daws 
continued from page 24 
that same broken foot, Daws had a bone graft performed on her left foot last spring which prevented her from competing with teammate Holly Manthei on the U.S. World Cup squad. 
"I've just kind of accepted the fact that my foot hurts every day," Daws said. "Actually it's healed, but this year I'm in more pain. I definitely think it has hindered me in a lot of ways." 
The tying tally against the Bearcats marked the first goal of the season by the native of Northridge, California. After never missing a game her first two years, Daws was returning after sitting out four of the first five matches of the 1995 cam­paign. It also displayed what type of leadership the co-cap­tain could display while on her natural canvas. 
"Her impact on the team is not only Cindy with the ball or Cindy scoring," Petrucelli added. "She sets the tempo for the game. People want to play with Cindy and for Cindy. She motivates other people to play like her." · 
For Daws, to say that the in­juries were a setback would be an understatement. Along with her foot, Daws was forced to deal with two strained quadri­cep muscles at the start of the year. Unlike the Cincinnati game, however, some moments are not always so easily remembered. 
"It gets hard and a Jot of it is mental," Daws noted. "I've had times this year that have been tough because of the pain. Coach (Petrucelli) has helped me a Jot to get past it." 
"There was a time when she was frustrated and questioned whether all the pain was worth it," Petrucelli commented. "She had some times when she doubted herself and struggled." 
After starting every game in her first two years, part of that struggle was learning how to be a spectator during the early part of this season. 
"It's hard to sit on the bench when you know you want to be out there,'' Daws said. "That's the same for everybody, but just being on the bench, you still want to contribute." 
That situation seems long re­moved from two years ago when Daws burst onto the Notre Dame sports scene and was named 1993 freshman of the year. Her 16 goals and 20 assists made her the only fresh­man to be placed on the 1993 All-American team. 
"My freshman year, I just 
Featuring: 
went out and did my thing," Daws added. 
Because of the injury, Daws' thing this year has involved less scoring, with only six goals. 
"I've never been the leading scorer," she noted. ''I'm more of a team player and as long as we achieve as a team, that's what's important." 
One consequence of the injury that has manifested itself re­gards a slightly different focus in play. 
"I had to re-focus," Daws ad­mitted. "I needed to put more energy towards my own game." 
Recently, things have been on the upswing for Daws, who has seen increased playing time during the team's current seven game winning streak. In this stretch, Daws has scored three goals to complement her three assists as she tries to regain the physical condition needed to play a full game. 
"Cindy's gotten better as the year has progressed," Petrucelli said. "I think she's feeling a lot better right now. She had two great weeks of training and is really kind of ready to explode." 
The Irish can only hope Alumni Field resembles a mine­field if Daws is to propel Notre Dame to its first soccer champi­onship. 
"For the team to be great, we need Cindy," Petrucelli re­marked. 
"Ever since I knew what a na­tional championship was, my goal has been to win it," Daws added. "We've worked really hard towards achieving it. It's difficult and it's going to be a battle." 
The battle begins this Sunday against Wisconsin. It was the Badger game in September where Daws made her first appearance of the year. 
"I can't look past Wisconsin," Daws commented. "We're two good teams and it's going to be physical. I think that we have a lot of respect for their team and they have the same amount for our team." 
Over the past two years, the 
.Summer Engineering Program 
in London 

CIN AI~T TlilE Sl~'ITE 
presented by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
631·7361 
Keanu Reeves in 
First Round Second Round Third Round 
Irish have been on each end of the tournament spectrum. In 1993 Notre Dame made an early exit in the first round, while competing in the champi­onship game last year against North Carolina. 
"I guess all we have left to do is win it," Daws concluded. "Our only purpose is to win it. That's all I think about." 
Bed 'N Breakfast Registry 
Mlchlana's First-Since 1983 
Enjoy approved, attractive private homes for ND/SMC special event weekends: 
•JPW •Graduation 
219-291-7153 


Center for Social Concerns 
CHAMPION 

Summer Service Project '95 Vets 
T-Shirts 
If you did not receive yours please stop by the Center for Social Concerns and pick one up by 
November 17th. 

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Friday, November 17, 1995 

The Observer/ Mike Ruma 

Sophomore midfielder Julie Maund and the Irish women's soccer squad begin their championship quest against Wisconsin Sunday. 
lmj?,OOrts 


Sweaters, Clothing, Jewelry, Accessories, and Much More! Guatemala • Peru • Mexico • Nepal
Thailand • India • Ecuador 

INCREDIBLE PRICESI GREAT CHRISTMAS GIFTSI 
Unbelievable Bargain Corner Relocating Business .. EVERYTHING MU5T Go! 
•Proceeds from this corner go to Guatemalan Education Fund Other donations greatly appreciated! (I'm doing this alone! HELP!) 
LaFortune -Room 108 Nov. 27-Dec.2 (Sat) ONLYl 10:00 am -5:00 pm 
AFTER THANKSGIVING!! 

The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
• WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Badgers first tourney foe 
By DAVE TREACY Sports Writer 
Collegiate soccer and Mother Nature go head to head this weekend in a battle for supremacy. 
However, while Notre Dame can only hope to cope with the elements, they need to put all of their efforts towards a confi­dent and determined Wisconsin Badger squad. The Irish played Wisconsin in Madison already this year, and fought their way to a 1-0 victory. But neither team expects the game to be a carbon copy of the September meeting. 
"We're a much different team than we were then," said Irish coach Chris Petrucelli. "We're a lot more settled into what we're doing as a team, and our line-up has solidified." 
''I'd say that both teams are more experienced, and have found the 11-14 players that they'll use in this game," Bad­ger coach Dean Duerst said. "Last game wasn't a great 

STEAMBOAT 1 9/·1 I!A :I if·S*J 4;13 ;J 4 4 tl 
, : ''5 '·'(':1 =r·'·l bi !·'n·• 
·PH~ PERSlW ~PEHOOIG Olt a:STlNATlCWIBREAK DATESil.EHGJ)j Cf STAY 
1.;.·SOO.;.Sll~CII,\S·E 
TOLL f1155 INFOIIW..TJON &. ftS5W\I..TIOIU Oft SUIIf MR TO DIIIWBI IITI At 
game, but this game should be much more relaxed." 
However, the coaches' expect similar game plans to be im­plemented in this contest. In the last match-up, the Badgers looked to work off of their ag­gressive defense, to play a de­structive rather than creative game. Notre Dame has been a passing team this year, and don't expect to get away from a controlled, ball-movement of­fense. 
"We need to shut down their attack," attributed Duerst. "We hope to settle the play, and to play confidently." 
"They're a counter-attacking type of team. But we expect to control the ball, and we'll need to take advantage of their mis­takes and finish on our scoring opportunities," said Petrucelli. The Notre Dame coach has yet to lose against the Badgers in four contests, stemming back to the 1992 season. 
There are several factors in the game that are different from the last contest. One of them is Notre Dame midfielder Cindy Daws. Daws was unable to contribute much time in the earlier contest due to injuries, but could make a significant impact on Sunday. 
"Cindy is playing great right now," appraised freshman Monica Gerardo, who scored the lone goal in the first game. "She's something we didn't have last game. Cindy is defi­nitely a nice weapon for us, something that Wisconsin did­n't really see last time." 
But the Badgers realize that Daws has the ability to domi­nate a game in the air and add scoring virtually any time she has the ball. 
"Cindy has dangerous mo­

• 
Used books bougi1t and sold 

• 
25 categories of Books 

• 
25,1JCXJ Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print Search Service: 


$200 
• Appraisals large and small Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 
1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
[219]232·8444 
JOIN JP & DE.NNIS 

ON WVFI 
HOSTED BY MIKE FLOOD-STATION MANAGER 
EVERY SUNDAY 8:00 -9:00pm 
~~ 
*CALL-INS WELCOME @ 1 X 6400* IACTION I D fi1 
Sl1 I DENT GOVF.RNMENT
*PLENTY OF BLACK SABBATH* 

ments in any game. It's our job to mark her out of the match. If she's allowed any time to cre­ate or use her skills, that will be bad for us," Duerst said. 
Additionally, the game condi­tions could play a huge role in the contest. liard, rough ground doesn't work well with a passing game, such as Notre Dame's, or a slide tackling de­fense, like Wisconsin's. But efforts have been made to keep the field in good condition should a cold spell hit, includ­ing plowing off snow and re­sodding areas of the grass. Nevertheless, cold weather has an effect on players, which may be to the advantage of the Bad­gers who have already won a game played in adverse condi­tions. 
Wisconsin hopes that the game they played last weekend will be another advantage com­ing into the 1 p.m. game at Alumni Field. 
"The Minnesota game gave us more confidence. We got a good first game under our belt, which will help settle us down, and hopefully we can keep the ball rolling," said Duerst. 
Notre Dame has had a good week leading up to the game, and have gained confidence in themselves. 
"We've been playing well in training; in fact, it was proba­bly our best week this year. We're peaking at the right time," Petrucelli added. 
"We've done a lot of work this week on different combination plays, and our defense has got­ten better all over the field," said Gerardo. 
With the home field advan­tage, an improving level of play, and plenty of tournament expe­rience, Notre Dame should be prepared to extend their win­
ning streak over the Badgers to 
five. 

+ Early bookinv savings until Nov. 15, 1995 
+ 
Guaranteed Lowest Price


+Book alliy for tha lowut prict & bast properties FROM$ 9 9 U·I)RI~t $3'99!!=:­
South Padro 1'/ 
5804 Grape Rd. • Indian Ridge Plaza 277-7946 
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS 
• SAINT MARY'S BASKETBALL 
Belles count on experience to improve on last season 
By STEPHANIE BUEK Sportswriter 
Coach Marvin Wood and the Saint Mary's College basketball team do not like to talk about the past. 
Indeed, with a losing record of 6-16 against one of the toughest Division III schedules in the area behind them, Saint Mary's would like to make the agony of last season's defeat a faint memory. Armed with seven returning letter winners, an outstanding crop of fresh­man talent and two new assis­tant coaches, a more experi­enced and much improved Belles squad heads into its first week of competition with a new outlook on success. 
"I have a vision of us being a winner this year," said Head Coach Marvin Wood, now in his twelfth season with the Belles. "After two losing seasons, we may surprise some teams along the way." 
According to Wood, the new­
comers to the team are an es­
sential element in his vision of 
success: with three starters not 
returning to the team, the 
freshmen will have to step up. 
Complementing senior co-cap­
tain and starting center Barb 
Howells, freshmen forwards 
Sheila Sandine and Charlotte 
Albrecht. at 5'11" and 5'9" re­spectively, not only bring added height and rebounding poten­tial to the roster, but contribute to the Belles' versatility as well. 
"The newcomers have stepped right in," said Howells. "They have been able to run the plays effectively right away. Our playing styles and person­alities fit together nicely." 
Sandine echoed Howells' comments, providing the fresh­man's perspective. 
"I am hoping to step up for the team," said Sandine. "With our size, we are all able to play different positions. [The roster] is more rounded-out; it's not just one or two people doing everything." 
Such versatility will be key for the Belles. With a roster of only 12 players and a schedule chalk-full of nationally ranked Division III teams, Wood has had to modify his line-up. Though the entire team will have to make adjustments, Wood looks for senior co-cap­tain Jennie Taubenheim in par­ticular to be a utility player for the Belles. A true forward, Taubenheim will join senior guards Colleen Andrews and Michelle Limb in the back court. 
"We are moving 
(Taubenheim) to the back 
court, but I think that's a chal­
lenge she can meet and mas­
ter," said Wood. "She really 
PRESENTS A 
T.Ci.J.F OFF CAMPlA.S 
provides strength for our team. She can do it all." 
Wood also expects junior Marianne Banko to meet new challenges, as well. 
"Marianne is only 5'7", but must play a lot bigger. She makes good decisions and good passes." 
Assistant Coaches Lisa Martin and John Kovach bring addi­tional experience and fresh faces to the Saint Mary's coach­ing staff. According to players, Martin, who played at Drake University in Iowa, especially adds a new perspective to the team. Working primarily with forwards and centers, Martin has helped the team develop their new height advantage by focusing on post defense, em­phasizing fronting the post, and switching on screens. 
"Because [Martin] has played, 
and because she is a woman, 
she knows what challenges we 
face this season," said Sand­
vine. "She knows the game." 
The Belles open the season 
on the road this weekend at the 
Hornet Tip-Off Tournament 
with Kalamazoo, Bluffton. and 
Kenyon. The Belles will play a 
similarly-matched Kalamazoo 
squad tomorrow at 8 p.m. Play 
continues Saturday with the 
consolation game at 11 a.m. 
and the championship game at 
1 p.m. 
PRE.P-PARTR)! FRJDA)!, NOV. 17Tt-1 
UPPER AND LOWER LEVEL DANCE FLOORS OPEN UNTIL 3:00A.M. COLLEGE J.D.-18 AND OVER UPSTAIRS; 21 AND OVER LOWER LEVEL-PROPER I.D.s REQUIRED; $ 3.00ADM/SSION-DOORS OPEN 9:00P.M. 
Saturday College Night Live -Off CampusPost-Game Party Nov. 18 Featuring: THE ELSIE'S PROMISE BAND plus LADY-MELO "D" Spining Your Favorite Booty Call&: Tootsie Roll music between band breaks : Downstairs dance floor open until 3:00 a.m. Doors open 9:00 p.m. 21 and over with proper I.D. s $3.00 admission lower level Sat, Nov. 18 upper level-Environmental fund raiser with live reggae band ­21 and over restrictions apply 
Friday, November 17, 1995 

SMC Basketball Schedule 
11/17­11/18 
11/21 11/26 12/01­12/02 12/05 12/08 12/09 1/17 1/20 1/22 1/27 2/03 2/06 2/08 2/10 2/13 2/15 2/17 2/18 2/22 2/24 

at Kalamazoo College Hornet Tip-Off wl Bluffton &Kenyon at Anderson University Beloit College SMC Roundball Classic Bethel, Huntington &IUSB Concordia University at Goshen College at Wheaton College at University of Chicago Franklin College Bethel College Hope College at Alma College Lake Forest College I USB at Albion College Calvin College at Manchester College Olivet College at DePauw University at Aurora University DEFIANCE COLLEGE 
UNIVERSITY PARK EAST 
ON UNIV. PARK DR. 
277-7336 "GoldenEye" (PG-13) 
1:15, 4:05, 7:05. 9:45 
"Powder" (PG-13) __1_:30...;..,4_:1....;0·...;..6:....;45....;.9_:15;___ UleU•,mniPA In BI'DOklyn (H) 4:20, 9:45 
tba 
7:00 3:00 6:00 1:00 7:00 7:00 2:00 7:00 2:00 7:00 2:00 3:00 7:00 7:00 3:00 7:00 7:30 1:00 2:00 7:00 3:00 
Fri-Sat 
Tue Sun Fri-Sat Tue Fri Sat Wed Sat Mon Sat Sat Tue Thu Sat Tue Thu Sat Sun Thu SAT 
: "Copycal" (R) 

. 1:30, 4:00, 6:50, 9:35 
"Ace Venlura 2" (PG-13) 1 :oo. 3:15. 5:30. 7:45. 1o:oo U'._,;..;.:..:..:....:.::....:.::.:.:;...:...:....::~:...;::..;:..=:..;.;:..:::...;::..;:__-1 

"Gel Shorty" (R) 

2:00 4:20 7:30, 9:50 
UNIVERSITY PARK WEST 
IN UNIV. PARK MALL 
277-7336 "Ace Ventura 2" (PG-13) 
2:15, 4:30, 6:45, 9:00 
"Home lor lhe Holidays" (PG-13) 


2:00. 4:40, 7:00, 9:20 ··--------'----'----'-_:....--1 
"Fair Game" (R) 
2:30, 4:40, 7:15, 9:30 
Thursday Night Study Break All Shows $4.00 All Day With Valid Student/. D. 
FREE admission with your ND!SMC Student ID. 
Friday, November 17, 1995 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
DILBERT 
T\r<o Now1ToT""-f/.E~ IN A. -tt>Jo ~ w"'-\ ~LE f,(."<Waf'J l'l~~ f'.r<o "bE:!. f"o ~ " (Y\o"> r 
()Dr<"'"'"''-, .. ~.... P1ct<.e.D .•. 
ITS STRANQ:: I. KH0/'1 T\-1AT5 ME, 8\JT I DC\1-\'\ FER At-~'{ Ca\'-l\-IE.C\\ON \0 "ffi\'3 IM~. E'IE.ItH\-1\t--lG 1':> "3f:J OIF\l:.RE.~T \'IC)\'1, 

--------------~s.-~~~~~~~~r-~==========~ 
from fiction. Empathize with some­
I THINK WE SHOULD 8 ~ BUILD AN SQL ~ DATA~ASE. ~ 
) 
;; 
"' ~ 

CROSSWORD 
55 Not entirely

t Jungle hazard 3t Practice starter 
58 --accomplito Long-distance 

32 "We want--!" 
60 New Deal erg. (stadium cheer)transports &1 Take care ofu Laissez-faire 35 Authenticate, &2 Kaput, as an te Prayerful one legally 

engine t7 Endorsements 37 Preordain 
64 Be charitable te Hash &5 Kitty Hawk's
40 Sang 4t Prolongs 
--Sound

t9 Right of way 42 Inflict on 6& Procedure 
20 Actress 67 Dawdlers
Armstrong 43 Spring 2t Stew 
44 Tibetan legend DOWN
4& Others, abroad

22 Building wings 50 Cheerleader's 1 Shake
24 Show ott accessory, for 2 Disentangle
28AIIey---short 3 Stick (on) 27 Smells 5t Beatie's feature 
4 Word with stock or street 5 Door feature ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 6 Puts away 
1 Visibly shocked a Famous name in 50's TV 

The Observer • TODAY page 23 
DAVE KELLETT  YOUR HOROSCOPE  JEANE DIXON  
~HOL£~\ To ~A"\' I  Af'\  
VERR~ "D1sAppoit>nD W1T\\  FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1995  
0 ~ \  ""D"\•~o • JY\ ITE ~  (For your personalized daily Jeane Dixon horoscope, based on your own date of birth, call 1-900-9!!!!-7788. Your phone company will bill you 99  


30--voce 330wing 
34 Seed covering 36 Quiz show prop 37 Can't stand 36 The "2" in 
'Trr• 
39 Rush 
45 One way to pay 47 Edit cents a minute.)

\ HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: New professional success comes when you reconcile with a partner. Your present employment has the greatest opportunity for long-term gains. Stay put. Set a major project aside until economic trends indicate better times ahead. Heed the voice of experience when traveling. A Jove relationship that has survived various challenges takes on new lus­ter. You ponder the benefits of mar­riage to someone whose values are 
ISNT IT WE.IRI) 11-IA\ oi'lt:.S 

in harmony with your own. CELEBRITIES BORN ON
OWN 1'1\C::.T Cfo..~ SEEM 

THIS DAY: model Lauren Hutton,
UNRE.Al? l\-1\5 IS liKE. 

Olympic great Bob Mathias, direc­
LOOKING-fl.-1 P.. P\C\'JRE. tor Martin Scorsese, actress Yolanda King. ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
cr sot-<\\:.~\)'{ EL'3E . 

Include prominent people when
;:tY' 

entertaining for business and plea­
L 
c::. 

sure. They will provide valuable guidance. Pay attention to the manipulative behavior of a competi­tor; you cannot afford to ignore it. 
TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Get as much work done as possible, then enjoy a relaxing weekend. Any lJUcs­tions left dangling could irritate you. Concentmte on working out details. A partner has a strong say in your life. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20):
SCOTT ADAMS 

Your intuitive feel for the nuances of a situation helps you separate fact 

one who is upset. Rumors float freely; do not believe everything you WHAT COLOR DO YOU 
WANT THAT DATABASE?' 

hear. Romance is favored tonight. CANCER (June 21-July 22):
I THINK When spending on a financial port­folio, starting a business or making
MAUVE 1-\A.S 

home improvements, deal with peo­ple who have a proven track record. Answering letters promptly lets oth­ers know that you are on top of things. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Take time to count your blessings and acknowledge recent gains. Your gen­erosity is appreciated by loved ones. 

48 Doctor's sealed 56 Over 
• OF INTEREST 

Participants In the Urban Plunge have a required orientation session in the Library Auditorium on Sunday November 19th from 4-6 p.m. 
A presentation on Catholic Relief Services and job requirements/qualifications for the organization will be given Sunday at 7:00 p.m. in Seminar Room C­103 in the Hesburgh Center. 
•MENU 
Notre Dame 

North Sauteed Chicken Breast Mini Bakers Spinach & Cheese 
Tortellini 
Saint Mary's 

Organizational tasks and paperwork 
may occupy you later today. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
Good news from someone at a dis­
tance brightens your morning. Do 
not allow yourself to get caught up 
in a business-home conflict. A 
hands-off policy is best when faced 
with aconfusing situation. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Let 
your intuition be your guide today. 
Aim high! Go all-out 10 impress an 
influential person who can help your 
career or business. Someone makes 
an interesting proposition. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Intellectual pursuits bring great satis­
faction. Expand your horizons. Re­
thinking your priorities will help you 
boo~t profits. You will make more 
money than you dreamed possible! 
SA<i!TTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dcc. 
21 ): A partnership is working in 
your favor. Mate introduces you to 
interesting opportunities as well as 
new friends. You move closer to a 
long-sought goal. A wish comes 
true. Be supportive of parents. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Seminars, lectures and long phone calls prove enlightening. Keep the lid on spending by shop­ping for bargains. Difficult times with your mate or partner can be forgiven and mostly forgotten. Remember your initial attraction! 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Your specialized knowledge serves you well in a leadership position. Overtime may be necessary, but it will fatten your paycheck. Show family members more affection. Spending 4uality time with children cements your relationship. Be attentive. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Adopt an attitude of greater give­and-take when dealing with co­workers. You will need their good­will. A stock market tip pays off in a big way. Host a modest celebration. Compromise at home. 
-

South Meat Lasagna Steamed Vegetable Plate Baked Pollack Jardiniere 
9 Driller's degree 10 "Have --1" 11 Fort -,Ont. 12 Kind of talk 13 Lacking order 14 Like some 
skylines 21 Caterer's aid 23 Figure follower 25 Celeritous 26 Glistening 

Flank Steak w/ Cream Mustard Sauce
glass vessel 57 Theater 
WhippAd Potatoes
49 Sudden components 
Fried Onion Rings
outbursts 59 Fill-in 52 "Anna Christie" 62 Low. in Lourdes 
star 
&3 Wine region of 53 Strength Portugal 

PLEASE RECYCLE
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

THE OBSERVER 
-


SPORTS 

page l4 Friday, November 17, 1995 
The host with the most 
Prohibitive favorite Notre Dame enters the Big East post season tourney with home court advantage 
By BETSY BAKER Sports Writer 

There is much to be said about the home-court advantage. Just ask the fourteenth-ranked Notre Dame volleyball team. 
In the sixteen seasons of Notre Dame volleyball, the Irish post a 123­49 record at the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. In five seasons under head coach Debbie Brown, the Irish are 61-4 at home. The Irish sustained a 27-match at home win­ning streak that spanned three sea­sons until it fell to the hands of Texas on September 22 of this year. 
It can definitely be said that oppo­nents of the Irish do not look forward to traveling to South Bend. 
Just ask the top five teams, behind the first place Irish, who will travel to Notre Dame this weekend for the Big East Championship. 
In their first year as members of the Big East, the Notre Dame volleyball team can boast of being the host of a conference championship, as they invite Pittsburgh, Connecticut, Vil­lanova, St. John's and Georgetown to town this weekend. These five teams will be looking to knock the Irish off the Big East pedestal and steal the automatic NCAA bid that goes to the winner of the tournament. 
The Irish, who were voted as the pre-season favorite by the conference coaches, lived up to the this expecta­tion by finishing the season as the only undefeated team in the confer­ence with an 11-0 record, 24-6 over­all. Not much is at stake this week­end for the Irish, as their top-twenty ranking and overall record assures them of a spot in NCAA post-season play, but a conference championship would serve a dual purpose of estab­lishing dominance in the conference and securing a first-round bye in the NCAA tournament. 
"We need to win to secure a bye in the first round of the NCAA tourna­ment," Brown said. "That way we can also play at home in the second round." 
Despite the optimistic outlook and the history to back it up, the Irish still worry about the increased emotion of the opponents coming into the tournament this weekend. It is all or nothing for the other five teams of the 
see BIG EAST I page 19 

-
at Air Force November 18, 8:30 p.m. 
Cross Country 
at NCAA Championships November 20 
Women's Basketball 
vs. Hoosier All-Stars November 18 
Women's Soccer 
vs. Wisonsin November 19, I p.m. 

1999 BIG EAST VOLLEYBALL TOURNAMENT 



#4 Villanova 
#5 St. .John's 
#3 Connecticut 
#6 Georgetown 

#1 Notre Dame 
\ ,// 
I/ /

;-----.JI 

#2 Pittsburgh 
The Observer/Chris Mullins 

Harriers look to bring home NCAA hardware 
Sporrs Writer 

The NCAA cross country champi­onships. A time to shine. 
In their annual tribute following the college basketball NCAA tournament, CBS shows highlights of the tourna­ment while playing the song, "One shining moment." 
Monday morning in Ames Iowa, the Notre Dame men's cross country team will have a chance to shine in the race they have looked forward to all year. This may be the seventh time in the last nine years the Irish have qualified for the NCAA meet, but the Notre Dame runners look at this meet as anything but ordinary. 
"It's a huge race," senior Derek Seiling says. Running against the twenty-one 
see NCAA I page 18 
Big East Championships at JACC November 18-19 
Men's Basketball 
vs. Athletes in Action November 20, 7:30p.m. 
SMC Sports 
Basketball at Kalamazoo November 17 Swimming at Wabash November 18 


• 
Saint Mary's Baketball season preview see page 22 

• 
Women's Hoops to face Hoosier Stars see page 17 

• 
Bears look to get back on track see page 16 


-

:rli'!·.''':'i:ii:·::.ii:!,i'>:::l::l!..;::··•:·_' .: .•· 
Gameday 
A look at how Air Force and Notre Dame shape up, and who has the advantage. 
see pages 2-3: 

Notre Dame is a clear exan1ple j of how much control televi-': sion has over college football. ·I, see page 7.' 


----~~---~----------­
page 2 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA Friday, November 17, 1995 
IRISH ON THE OFFENSIVE !ij 
• It 
Krug, Irish ready to play role in shootout 
By MEGAN McGRATH 
Sports Writer 
For those of you not paying attention for the past couple of weeks, Notre Dame will have a new quarterback Saturday night against Air Force, maybe two. 
After Ron Powlus suffered a season-ending injury two Saturday's ago against Navy, reserve Tom Krug has had to step up into the starting role, leaving many to wonder who Krug is and how well he can play. 
"Tom Krug did not come here from Mars this week. He has been at practice, he has been here at Notre Dame," head coach Lou Holtz said of his new quarterback. "We are playing with the same people he has practiced with for several years. He believes he can do it and wants to do it." 
Krug preformed admirably after entering the Navy game 
Renaldo Wynn sacks BC quarterback Mark Hartsell. Heading up the Falcons' offense is junior quarter-
late in the third quarter. Rebounding from a shaky start, he threw for 90 yards on five of eight passing, including two touchdown throws. 
Another possibility for the Irish is freshman Jarious Jackson, an option-type quar­terback who has Notre Dame fans dreaming of Tony Rice. 
"Tony Rice had the ability to move the football team down the field," Holtz said. "We don't know yet about Jackson." 
Despite not knowing much about Jackson in game situa­tions, Holtz says he remains an option for the Irish if Krug fal­ters. 
"We'll start Tom Krug and go from there," Holtz said. "If we're struggling, I owe it to our football team to do whatever it takes to win." 
Air Force has shown itself vulnerable to a strong passing game, which could help Krug. The Falcons give up an average of 412.3 yards on offense, but 

Best of bunch sure to pose problems 
Writer 
The service academies on Notre Dame's schedule have more in common than discipline, uniforms and a commitment to Uncle Sam; their football programs share explosive rushing attacks that have, and come Saturday's game with Air Force, spell trouble for the Irish defense. 
"This is the best service academy team," Irish head coach Lou Holtz says of Air Force. What makes the Falcons tough is their command of the option offense. 
"I wish we could run it as well as they do. They understand it and make good adjustments." 
A strong option game is a threat for a team that gives up an average of 187.5 yards a game, as the Irish do. That's not extravagantly high, but the team has struggled with option offense before. 
Notre Dame gave up 407 yards of total offense, including 365 yards on the ground to Navy and 433 total yards, 202 rushing, to Army.
The Observer/Rob Finch 
254.5 yards passing. They have surrendered an average of 
23.1 points and have picked off only seven passes in ten games. 
Senior free safety Kelvin King leads the Falcons with four interceptions. Cornerback LeRon Hudgins is second. on the team with 69 tackles. 
Injuries have also plagued the Irish running game, but in Randy Kinder's absence, fresh­man Autry Denson has shone. He ran for a career high 115 yards on 16 carries against Navy, and will start along side Marc Edwards against the Falcons. 
Senior inside linebacker Lee Guthrie will try to styme the Irish rushing attack. He leads the Falcons with 80 tackles. 
While Guthrie halts the run, outside linebacker Brian McCray and defensive tackle Cameron Curry will apply pres­sure on Krug. Both McCray 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 

and Curry are tied to lead the Thomas Krug will lead the Irish into Falcon Stadium with the weight of a Falcons with six sacks. possible bowl bid on his shoulders. 
fALCONS ON THE OffENSIVEm •• 
back Beau Morgan. Reminiscent of former Air Force star Dee Dowis, Morgan will likely become the NCAA's eighth player to rush and pass for 1000 yards in a sea­son. Morgan has 1,039 yards rushing and 999 yards passing. 
"Morgan is a great option quarterback," Holtz said. "He reminds me of Dowis in that he can run, throw and work the option." 
The Irish defense will have to be on its toes whenev­er the triple-threat Morgan has the ball. The squad will look for junior linebackers Lyron Cobbins, Kinnon Tatum and Bert Berry to continue to lead the team. 
Tatum starred in the other meetings with the armed forces with 12 tackles against Army and 14 against Navy. Cobbins leads the team with 100 tackles and four interceptions. Berry is third behind Cobbins and Tatum with 71 total tackles. 
The defensive ends will have to guard against a Falcon offense that lit up Army for 493 total yards and are averaging 438.7 total and 336.2 rushing yards. 
Morgan is also a threat to throw the ball, as he showed against Army . Morgan threw for 155 yards on a 13 for 19 day. 
The Observer/Brian Hardy Halfback Jake Campbell takes a pitch last season in Notre Dame Stadium from Beau Morgan. 
Falcon Runningbacks 
VS. By Tim Sherman 
Notre Dame Secondary 
Air Force quarterback Beau Morgan may very. well be one of the nation's more dangerous in terms of running the football, but the Irish would be wise to keep a close watch on the backs lined up behind him. 
Morgan is a safe bet to gain his fair share of yards, but the Irish must play the containment game with the halfbacks to shut down the Air Force Academy. 
In the option attack, much of the running will be done outside the normal perimeter of the defense. And though the Notre Dame line­backers do possess above-average speed, the secondary will still be involved in a majority of the run­ning plays. 
Cornerbacks Shawn Wooden, and smallish Allen Rossum and Ivory Covington must be able to shed blockers and tackle soundly. 
Even with this in mind, the defensive backfield must still be wary of an aerial attack which Navy employed well. 
··~· 
IThe Observer/Rob Finch 

Irish cornerback Allen Rossum will play an impor­tant part in stopping the Falcon run. 

Friday, November 17, 1995 
.••BEAU MORGAN 

D
en Dowis. Dar ian llagan. Doug Flu tie. 
This is the kind of company that quarter­baek Beau Morgan is hning mentioned in the sanw brnath with in his third snason at the Air Foree Aeadt~my. 
"Their quarterback is 
The Observer/Brian Hardy 
dance in the heads of Air Force fans. With two games left to play, Morgan has already joined the former Falcon great as one of eight players in NCAA history to run and pass for 1000 yards in the same season. 
Morgan won over the 

thn total pack­
hearts of Air age," said Irish Foree fans dur­defensive coor­ing the opening dinator Bob week of the sea­Davie. "lie has son in a :~8-12 a gifted arm thrashing of 
and can run Birgham Young. the football. lie became just People who the second quar-
Morgan

don't know about this kid are going to be surprised." 
Morgan is more than the key ingrBdient and leader of the Air Force offt~nstL Tlw 5-11, 185 pound junior out of Carrolton. Tllxas is tlw Fakon oiienst~. 
In I 0 starts this sea­son, Morgan has been nothing short of SJHH~­taeular. Al'tm rushing for 14h yards and a pair of touchdowns in last wnt~ktmd's :1S-20 victory ovnr Army, tlw Faeon signal caller nnters Saturday's showdown with 1039 yards and 15 touchdowns on the ground. 
When Morgan attacks defendt~rs in tlw wish­hone offense, mmnories of the lt~gnndary Dowis 
terback in school history to guide the Falcons to a victory over their rival from Utah. 
As sleek and flashy as he is with the football tucked away, it is his arm that separates him from Navy's Ben Fay and Army's Honnie McAda. In Air Force's run and shoot passing game, Morgan has com­pleted 7 4 of 142 passes for 999 yards and nine touchdowns. 
"The kid from Navy (Fay) was more of a runner than a thrower but this guy can do both." said Davy. "lie reminds me a lot of Doug Flu tie." 
Indeed, the compar­isons are endless. 
--Mike Day 

The Observer • IRISH EXTRA page 3 
!':o~ti!~~!~~?~~? I 


at who holds the advantage 
D Quarterbacks 




Even with Ron Powlus healthy, Air Force might still get the nod here. Morgan, who is adept both running, and throwing, is the best QB to face ND. 
~Running BacksD 
The triumvirate ofMarc Edwards, Autry Denson, and Randy Kinder has shined all year long. The Falcons are solid too, averaging 5.8 yards per carry. 
Receivers 
Cameron Curry and Ryan McCray each have recorded six sacks up front for the Falcons. The Irish front has been decent, but hasn't made plays. 
Linebackers D 
Projected to be a strength, the 'backers have been 
that and more for ND. AF's Lee Guthrie has a 
Lyron Cobbins~like knack for making plays. 
Secondary 
D
The most improved area ofthe Irish will be tested 
heavily. Shawn Wooden's steadiness has rubbed 
offa bit on Allen Rossum. 

for a guy used to cover-Ransom and LeHon ing less gifted receivers Hudgins. Hudgins from inferior football ranks second on Air
D Special Teams 
'~~
..i.f! 

programs, Dalton will Force with 69 tackles 
~.:c'""V''
-~~~1~--~ 
Falcon Randy Roberts is a respectable 9-14 kick­ing in the thin air ofColorado. Also, Air Force owns the nation's 2nd best kick return average. 
~ Coaching D 
In the press box or on the sideline, Lou Holtz is still Lou Holtz. Counterpart Fisher DeBerry's offensive mind is well-regarded. 
Overall 
D 
A true must-win game, the Irish should be able to score at wilL The key is, can the Falcons too? 

•••MICHAEL DALTON 
The Observer/Brian Hardy 

T
he biggest chal-surpise, he ranks first lenge of his on the Irish in touch-career. down receptions with 
Air Force cornerback six. Michael Dalton has Dalton, who ranks spent the course of the fifth on Air Force with 1995 season covering 53 tackles entering the receivers from the WAC game, has been the and the two other ser-Falcons' top defensive vice academies. back this season. However, this weekend However, opponents the Falcons aren't play-average over 254 yards ing UTEP or,---------, through the air New Mexico. against the 
Dalton faces Falcons in ten the daunting games this sea-task of trying son. to contain In the sec-Notre Dame's ondary, Dalton Derrick Mayes will be flanked this Saturday by cornerback at Falcon Kelvin King and Stadium. And safeties Sam 
have to raise his game this season, while to another level to win Hansom has recorded this battle. 61 tackles in addition to 
Saying Mayes is Notre being the team's top Dame's main receiving punt returners. threat is like saying that As Notre Dame pre­air travel is the acade-pares for life without my's primary mode of Hon Powlus, Mayes and transportation during the rest of the receiving battle. The senior will corps will have to pick be playing his last regu-up the slack around Jar season game as a backup Torn Krug. On member of the Irish and the other side of the will do everything he coin, the Falcons, with can to make sure Notre a bowl bid on the line Dame secures a major against the Irish, will bowl bid. have to be at the top of 
Despite enduring a their game on Saturday minislump over the last against one of the half of the season, nation's top receivers. Mayes leads Notre For Dalton, this chal­Dame with 45 catches lenge transcends UTEP and 835 yards receiv-and New Mexico. ing. To no one's --Mike Day 
Friday, November 17, 1995 

SCORE BY QUARTERS  1  2  3  4  Tot  PASSING  Camp  All  Pet  Yds  TO  lnt  Lg  FIELD GOALS  Tot  
Air Force  54  92  94  61  301  Morgan  74  142  52.1  999 9  5  73  Roberts  9-14  
Opponents  55  50  56  70  231  Brown  3  9  33.3  28  0  2  12  
PUNTING  No  Avg  Bk  Lg  
TEAMSTATS  AF  Opp  RECEIVING  Rec  Yds  Avg  TO  Lg  Carr  39  42.3  0  66  
First downs  236  205  Campbell  20  280  14.0  4  32  
Total yards  4387  4123  Ranger  14  193  13.8  1  37  KICKOFF RETURNS  No  Avg  TO  Lg  
Total yards per game  438.7  412.3  Marsh  12  137  11.4  0  18  Campbell  11  26.6  0  60  
Total offensive plays  729  698  Hancock  7  198  28.3  1  73  Hudgins  10  23.8  0  36  
Avg. yards per play  6.02  5.91  Hendricks  7  78  11.1  1  19  
Rushing yards  3362  1578  Ruff  5  27  5.4  1  10  PONT RETURNS  No  Avg  TO  Lg  
Rushing yards per game  336.2  157.8  Johnson  3  25  8.3  0  9  King  17  8.8  0  17  
Rushing plays  578  383  Wilkerson  3  14  4.7  0  6  Campbell  4  6.0  0  11  
Passing yards  1025  2545  Ellers  2  31  15.5  0  20  
Passing yards per game  102.5  254.5  Addison  2  12  6.0  0  6  INTERCEPTIONS  No  
Passes completed  77  173  Rosenbach  1  18  18.0  0  18  King  4  
Passes attempted  151  315  Tyner  1  12  12.0  1  12  Dalton, DeRock, Gizzi  1  
Passes intercepted  7  10  Hudgins, Ransom, Vargas  1  
Fumbles I Fumbles lost  26/15  23/13  SCORING  TO  2XP  1XP  FG  Sal  Pis  
Penallies-Penalty yards  34-272  67-553  Morgan  15  0  0-0  0  0  90  DEFENSE  T  A  Tot  FC  FR  PBU  Sac  
Third down conversions  65-140  50-137  Roberts  0  0  32-35  9  0  59  Guthrie  29  52  81  2  0  2  1  
Percentage  48.4  36.5  Campbell  9  0  0-0  0  0  54  Hudgins  36  31  69  1  0  4  0  
Fourth down conversions  8-12  12-22  Addison  3  0  0-0  0  0  18  Fernandez  26  38  62  0  0  0  0  
Brown  2  0  0-0  0  0  12  Ransom  29  32  61  2  0  5  0  
RUSHING  Yds/Gm  No  Yds  Avg  TO  Lg  Johnson  2  0  0-0  0  0  12  Dalton  38  15  53  0  0  6  0  
Morgan  103.9  189  1039  5.5  15  55  Wilkerson  2  0  0-0  0  0  12  McCray  30  22  52  2  2  3  6  
Campbell  57.6  67  518  7.7  5  56  Eilers  1  0  0-0  0  0  6  King  35  15  50  0  0  8  0  
Brown  51.4  40  257  6.4  2  37  Hancock  1  0  0-0  0  0  6  Curry  12  26  38  1  0  2  6  
Wilkerson  43.9  77  439  5.7  2  34  Hendricks  1  0  0-0  0  0  6  DeRock  13  21  34  0  3  1  
Johnson  35.5  51  355  7.0  2  41  Ranger  1  0  0-0  0  0  6  Schweighardt  16  14  30  0  1  2  
Addison  28.3  54  198  3.7  3  18  Ruff  1  0  0-0  0  0  6  Maunz  5  20  0  2  
Ruff  27.8  41  276  6.7  0  52  Tanner  1  0  0-0  0  0  6  Vargas  6  16  0  1  

.. • • 
No.Name Poa. Hl Wl YR 1 Sherman Dedrick RB 5-9 175 so 

Sept. 2 BRIGHAM YOUNG W, 38-12
1 Sherman Tank BG 5-10 172 JR 
FISHER DeBERRY 
2 TomBrown QB 5-9 164 JR 

Sept. 9 . WYOMING IN, 34-10 
3 Jason Olsen WR 6-Q 186 SR 

4 Joe Sheffield QB 5-8 170 JR Sept. 16 'COLORADO ST, l, 20-27 
5 Michael Walker CB 5-7 187 JR 
12th season at Air Force 

6 Andre Johnson QB 5-7 163 JR Sept. 23 at Northwestern L, 6-30 
6 Andre the Giant PB 7-7 478 OAF 
Career Record: 91-53-1 

Sept. 30 atNew Mexico w. 27-24
7 Craig Hancock WR 6-Q 193 SR 8 Jake Campbell RB 5-7 177 SR 

Against Notre Dame: 2-7 Oct. 7 _~· WTEP W. 56-46 
8 Luther Campbell 2LC 6-0 180 SR !f·• . ~ 
9 Wade Henning s 6-1 180 so Highlights: The 1985 National Coach of Oct. 14 •' at Navy w, 30-20 
9 Sean Lee CB 5-11 165 so 6-3 JR Oct. 21 at Utah l, 21-22

10 Marcus Alexander s 172 the Year has led the Falcons to seven 
11 Kelvin King CB 6-Q 176 SR 

12 Beau Morgan QB 5-11 187 JR Oct. 28 a) Fres~o St. W, 31-20
post-season bowl games, and won the 
15 Floyd Brazier RB 5-10 175 so 

Nov. 1t ARMY W, 38-20 
16 Randy Roberts K 6-0 201 SR 

Commander-in-Chiefs Trophy five of the 
17 Melvin Whatley LB 6-0 203 so Nov. 18 NOTRE DAME 17 Jody Watley DIVA 5-4 120 FR 
past six years. 

18 Sam Ransom s 6-2 200 JR Nov. 25 19 Tobin Ruff RB 6-0 198 so 20 Steven Walden RB 5-10 180 so 21 Richie Marsh WR 6-2 180 SR 23 Parks Hughes H 5-10 165 SR 24 John lchiyama RB 5-9 176 JR 24 Kristi Yamaguchi ICE 5-4 115 so 25 Jamie Rhone CB 5-10 184 so 26 Keith Anderson CB 5-10 184 so 27 Marc Ranger WR 5-11 175 JR 29 Michael Da~on CB 5-7 182 JR 30 Jason Forte RB 6-1 220 so 31 Kurt Kremsmer K 6-3 210 SR 
FALCON STADIUM 
32 LeRon Hudgins LB 6-1 198 SR 33 Brandon Wilkerson RB 5-10 204 SR 34 Brian Mulloy LB 6-1 191 JR 35 Stephen Pipes s 6-0 180 so Opened in 1956 36 David Ray s 6-1 205 JR 37 Abe Ebia LB 6-0 190 so 
Capacity: 50,126 
38 Nakia Addison RB 5-8 195 JR 39 Craig Tanner RB 5-10 228 JR 
Largest Crowd: 52,397 
40 Danta Johnson RB 5-11 180 SR 41 Todd Eilers RB 5-10 175 JR 
Surface: Grass 
42 Adrian Smith RB 5-10 180 JR 42 Yo Adrian ROC 5-6 130 SR 
AFA at home: 111-96-6 
44 Lee Guthrie LB 6-1 223 JR 45 Alex Pupich TE 6-5 232 JR 46 Erin Bender LB 6-3 205 so 47 Chris Miller WR 6-2 182 so 48 Johnny Vargas LB 6-2 226 SR 50 Nathan Faber c 6-2 267 so 51 Chris Gizzi LB 6-Q 223 JR 51 See Seventy-seven LB 6-0 223 52 Adam Edwards c 6-2 234 53 Donald Leary c 6-3 246 54 Mike Zeman c 6-1 255 55 Brian McCray LB 6-0 221 56 Steve Fernandez LB 6-1 230 57 Timothy Schumacher LB 6-3 230 58 James Mustin c 6-3 220 
CORNERBACK 22-Wooden59 Mark DeRock LB 6-2 245 14-Covlngton
60 Scott Breece OT 6-3 260 61 Ka~ Falk OG 6-0 235 62 John Sapp OT 6-4 259 63 Ryan Paolucci OT 6-4 235 64 Jason Campbell DT 6-3 265 65 Brad Hall . OG 6-3 245 67 Rick Dwyer OG 6-3 262 68 Geoffrey Zion LB 6-0 198 69 Bret Cillessen OG 6-1 257 70 David Hammer DT 6-3 246 71 Rodney Bullard NG 6-0 258 72 Charles Parks OT 6-6 269 73 Daniel Palmer OT 6-4 265 7 4 Adam Schnicker OT 6-6 250 74 Fu Schnickens RAP 7-2 300 
WEAK
76 Ca~ton Hendrix OT 6-3 260 SAFETY76 Ca~ton Banks FP 5-2 160 
9·Moore 

77 Ron Jenkins DT 6-2 271 26-Monahan
RIGHT GUARD 77 Ron Jeremy ? 5-8 69·CIIeHen 78 Gerhard Hahn OT 6-2 261 75-Hutt 79 Jason Lamb LB 6-4 230 80 Jeffrey Green WR 6-4 202 
RIGHT TACKLE 80 Ryan Quaale TE 6-2 213 73-Palmer 81 Steve Carr p 6-5 230 65-Hall 82 Rob Evert DT 6-4 235 83 Rory Rosenbach DT 6-4 240 84 Dustin Tyner WR 5-11 174 84 Dustin Diamond pp 6-3 103 84 Screech Powers sv 6-3 103 85 Cha~es Whithead WR 6-1 191 
STRONG SAFETY
86 Matt Brooks TE 6-5 225 
17-Magee
87 Steve Hendricks TE 6-4 225 

39-Guilbeaux 88 T a it Stamp TE 6-4 208 89 Michael Gargasz TE 6-4 215 90 Jason Verbeck NG 6-2 93 Ray Weathersby WR 5-8 95 James Maunz DT 6-4 96 Chris Schweighardt NG 5-11 97 Cameron Curry DT 6-5 98 Joe Suhajda NG 6-3 99 Keith Ensor LB 
--~---~------~----------~--~---­

~-------~ ~ ~ 
Friday, November 17, 1995 
The Observer • IRISH EXTRA page 5 

' ~ 
l ·,,It'•. 
.·.1 
··:; i 
.-. !J" 
' " 
·1. ' 
. ·' 
f 
'~ . 
~:,.fj
' .
·'·~~
•t i.'' 
~~ 
J. •·
··~{
~,:·.;·· ~·:.t•.l 
•·•; 
1,.. 
'' 
,_\. , 
~11 ' 
•. '..~./ I 
·­
THE SlATS • • 
• 

SCORE BY QUARTERS 1 2 Notre Dame 58 101 Opponents 42 so 
TEAMSTATS NO Flnll downs 221 Total yards 4101 Total yards per game 410.1 Total offensive pla\15 724 Avg. yards per play 5.7 Rushing yards 2158 Rushing yards per game 215.8 Rushong plays 499 Passing yards 1943 Paaslng yards per game 194.3 Passes completed 129 Passes attempted 225 Passes intercepted 7 
Fumbles/ Fumbles lost 23/11 Penallles-Panally yards 46-401 Third down conva111lons 76-146 
Percentage 52 Fourth down convan~lons 6-13 
RUSHING Yda/Gm No Yda 
Kinder Edwards Denson Farmer Thoma Stokes Krug 
~~~·( Sept. 2 }·;.:Sept. 9 
1 
' ~:· Se 1.16
' ' p ­
Sept. 23 Sept. 30 
I'

Oct. 7 atWashington W,-~9-21 Oct/14 Army (Giants Stad.) W, 28-27 Oct~'21 USC W, 38-10 ", ·~ Oct. fB. BOSTON COLLEGE W~. 2Q-1 0 . :, Nov. f"''·'" -NAVY W,·35-17 .l'i Nov. 18 at Air Force ,.,, 
iJ~ THE SERIES • • • 
lAST TIME 
Notre Dame 42 Air Force 30 
Irish wide receiver Derrick Mayes caught 8 passes for 163 yards and two touchdowns, break­ing the Irish's previous single season touchdown record of nine. 
76.4 130 688 63.3 126 633 58.6 121 566 31.8 35 159 4.3 2 34 4.0 10 28 ·1.3 2 ·5 
NOTRE DAME ":­
NORTHWESTERN L 17-15 !.~:...~ at ~urdue W, 35-28 ~-~ VANDERBILT W, 41-0 ·' '. ''T-EXAS W. 55-27 at Ohio State L, 45-26 
3  4  Tot  
60  103  322  
51  59  202  
Opp  
199  
3898  
369.8  
667  
5.4  
1675  
187.5  
43t  

PASSING Powlus Krug 
RECEIVING Mayas Edwards Chryplewicz Mosley Wallace Kinder Denson 
L ~,  
:· ir,... ·~=·\ ~ ~.· -~~·~. i =.·~ ~: ::i(!/·~> -~·}  
Comp  AH  Pet  Yda  TO  lnt  Lg  FIELOGOALS  
124  217  57.1  1853  12  7  56  Kopka  
5  8  62.5  90  2  0  42  Cengla  
Rae  Yda  Avg  TO  Lg  PUNTING  
45  635  18.8  6  56  H. Smith  
24  348  14.5  3  46  
16  193  12.1  1  28  KICKOFF RETURNS  
15  249  16.6  1  51  Mosley  
8  79  9.9  1  35  Solimann  
8  75  9.4  1  30  
6  65  10.8  0  15  PUNT RETURNS  
Mosley  

1623 ALL-PURPOSE Ruah Rae Ret Tot Avg Sollmann 
162.3 Edwards 140 Kinder 256 Mayas 
14 Mosley 17/13 Denson 53-430 Farmer 58-142 Chryplewicz 
41 Sollmann 11·20 SCORING 
Avg  TO  Lg  Edwards  
5.3  7  52  Kinder  
5.0  9  27  Kopka  
4.8  6  25  Mayes  
4.5  1  22  Denson  
17.0  0  30  Rossum  
2.8  0  11  Cengla  
-2.5  0  0  Mosley  
...... '/,v,,;  ./';.  

..c-
THE STRATEGIST • • • 
633  348  0  961  98.1  
688  75  5  768  85.3  INTERCEPTIONS  
10  635  8  853  85.3  Cobbins  
3.2  249  552  833  83.3  Wooden, Rossum  
586  65  39  690  69.0  Moore  
159  19  53  231  46.2  Magee, Monahan  
0  193  0  193  19.3  
0  15  130  145  14.5  DEFENSE  
Cobbins  
TO  2XP  1XP  FG  Sal  P1a  Tatum  
12  2  o-o  0  0  76  Berry  
8  0  0-0  0  0  46  Moore  
0  0  27-29  6  0  45  Magee  
6  1  0-0  0  0  38  Grasmanis  
6  0  0-0  0  0  36  Wooden  
2  1  0-0  0  0  14  Wynn  
0  0  7·1  2  0  13  Minor  
2  0  0·0  0  0  12  Bennatt  

LOU HOLTZ 
Tenth season at Notre Dame. Career Record: 207-92-7 Against Air Force: 7-0 
Highlights: Reached 200-win milestone against Purdue. Guided the Irish to a National Championship in 1988 and runner-up finishes in 1989 and 1993. 
SERIES 
Notre Dame leads: 18-4 Last ND win: 42-30 in 1994 
Last Air Force win 
21-15 in 1985 Streak: 7 by ND At Falcon Stadium Notre Dame leads 9-2 
.....~ 
·.:.·... ?JIBI 
~-:; 
Tot :~·,
6-11 2·2 ~:-~ 
·t ....~ 

No Avg Bk Lg 37 36.3 0 58 
g: 
·.. /, 

No Avg TO Lg 15 27.9 0 50 ~ •··'· ;, 5 18.2 0 29 
No Avg TO Lg 9 14.6 1 64 6 4.9 0 24 
No 4 3 2 \,.: 
1 ·:? 
..~ 

T A Tot FC FR PBU Sac 78 22 100 3 3 1.0 
·~t 

so 27 77 0 2 0.5 
~·' 

53 18 71 1 0 3 0.5 
ill.. 

33 31 64 0 2 2 0.0 36 27 83 1 0 6 0.0 34 28 62 0 2 1 3.5 36 22 60 0 0 6 0.0 36 15 53 1 0 0 4.5 27 20 47 1 0 0 6.0 29 16 45 0 0 0 0.0 
··, :..._·.· 
-

:.;.; THE STARS 
No.Name 

1 Derrick Mayas 2 Kinnon Tatum 3 Ron Powlus 4 Kory Minor 5 Emmell Mosley 6 Lyron Cobbins 7 Jarious Jackson 9 LaRon Moore 
1 0 Mike Perona 11 Tom Krug 12 Scotl Cengia 12 Mario Strayhorn 13 Bert Berry 13 John Bishop 14 Ivory Covington 15 Allen Rossum 18 Jerry Maloney 17 Brian Mag88 17 Marl< McKanna 18 Cikai Champion 
... 19 Marcus Thome 
·~·, '·' 20 Kevin Kopka ·.~;,l:,l. 21 Shannon Stephens ii;t. 22 Shawn Wooden ,~''!< 23 Bill Gibbs ;i~ j' 23 Autry Danson ~ .%~c 24 Ty Goode '· ·' 25 Randy Kinder 
· 26 Marl< Monahan . 26 Chr1s McCarthy " 27 Bobbie Howard 
28 Ken Barry 29 Roni Enisle 29 A'Jani Sanden~ 
,. ~ 30 Jarvis Edison 31 Robert Farmer . 32 Clement Stokes 
1,. 
~ 33 John Mclaughlin 34 Jam1e Spencer .l5 Scou Palumbo 35 Robert Phelps 36 Chirs Wachtel 37 Jeff Kramar 38 Sim Stokes 
:·\'y; ,l 39 Benny Guilbeaux .-'..(I 40 Kevin Carralla · ,_; ·. 41 Joe Babey 
42 Mike Frascogna 43 Bill Wagasy 44 Marc Edwards 45 Hunter Smith 46 James Jackson 47 Bill Mltoulas 46 Renaldo Wynn 49 Joe Thomas 52 Alex Mueller 53 Lamoni Bryant 54 Luke Pelitgout 55 Shelton Jordan 56 Kurt Belisle 57 Rick Kaczanski 58 Mike Burgdorf 59 Matthew Kunz 60 Sean Rogers 62 Mike McCullough 65 Man Gnesbach 68 Jeff Kilburg 67 John Wagner 69 David Quist 70 Tim Ridder 71 Jerry Wisne 72 Ryan Leahy 73 Mike Doughty 75 Chris Clevenger 78 Jeremy Akers 77 Dusty Zeigler 78 Jon Spickelmier 79 Mike Rosenthal 80 Malcolm Johnson 81 Charles Stafford 82 Bobby Brown 83 Scotl Sollmann 84 Dan McConnell 86 Antwon Jones 67 Jimmy Friday 88 Leon Wallace 89 Mike Oenvlr 89 John Cerasani 90 Ban Foos 91 Darnell Smith 93 Paul Grasmanis 94 Justin Orr 95 Corey Bennett 97 Corey Redder 98 Pete Chryplawicz 99 Cliff Stroud 
:.~, 
::'J· 
Poa. Hl Wt YR '·fl.::
?) 
WR 6·1 204 SAt.~·;. LB 6-0 216 JA ~,-,' QB 6-2 217 JA ~ j.t~ LB 8-2 225 FA~:.;; 
WA 5-9 180 LB 6-0 241 
~=i} 
QB 8-2 215 
s 5-9 190 QB 6·1 190 ~=~ QB 6-4 206 
K 5-9 179 ~~~~ 
DB 6·2 205 FA~; LB 6-3 230 JA~··~ 
CB 5-11 170 JA '!·' CB 5-9 161 
so ,tf'l' 
CB 5-7 176 
SO'!\'" K 5·11 174 
JR ~~~~~·~·· 
s 5-10 204 SA ~1\!; QB 5-t1 162 JA ~~:·1 WR 5-10 191 JA: RB 6-0 224 SR 
K 5-8 175 FA RB 5-10 175 FA CB 5-11 188 SA 
s 5·10 179 JA. AB 5·10 175 FA CB 5-11 183 so RB 6-1 206 JA CB 5·11 184 SA 
K 5-11 194 so LB 5·11 210 FA RB 8-0 214 so DB 6-0 180 JA DB 5·11 175 FA 
s 6-4 213 so RB 5-10 208 JA RB 6-0 203 so LB 6·4 222 so RB 6·1 245 FA 
p 
5-1t 187 SA CB 8-0 185 JA 
p 
5·11 211 JA LB 8-2 218 so CB 6·0 165 JA DB 6-4 210 FA TE 6-1 230 
SA 
LB 6-t 227 so·.) ... WR 5-6 164 LB 8-3 224 
~= ;·,:. i .... 
AB 6·0 227 JA .­
p 6-3 195 FA RB 5-10 205 FA LB 8-1 217 so' DE 6-3 260 SA LB 6-3 205 FA OL 6-6 260 FA DE 6-4 235 FA 
OG 6-6 282 so LB 6-4 230 FA LB 6-2 220 so 
c 6-4 263 JA TE 6-0 205 JA 
s 6·0 209 so' OT 5-10 280 JA NG 6-2 298 SA OG 6-0 283 so OG 6·4 278 JA OL 6-8 300 FA NG 6·6 281 SA OL 6-7 280 FA OL 6·1 282 FA OG 6·4 288 SA OT 6-7 291 JA OT 6-8 265 JA OG 6-5 288 
SA ':1•. c 6-6 292 SA·. · c 6-2 265 so ,i,, OL 6-7 290 
FA J:r.~~···~ 
WR 6-4 206 so':{" WR 5·9 167 
SA ~i\ 
WR 6-3 175 FA-~,.. ' WR 5·8 160 JA "\J:i WR 5-8 181 SA ··:;")
FA ._,
DL 6-4 237 LB 6-3 230 
FA ., 
TE 6·3 265 SA \ TE 6-3 231 JR '.l.'· TE 6-4 245 FA . .,.. DE 6-4 250 SA .','\.'· DE 6-5 277 JA NG 8-2 279 SA· 


page 6 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA Friday, November 17, 1995 
Cobbins 
continued from page 1 
To be a little more specific, the junior inside linebacker has been on a torrid stretch in the past three games in which he has intercepted four passes, forced two fumbles, and broken up a pass in the end zone to end the first half against USC. If that's not been enough, he's also enjoyed a sack and a fumble recovery. 
"It's just been a matter of getting the reps in practice so I know where I need to be whether it's on a run or pass," Cobbins said about his proclivity for playmaking. "As the saying goes, prac­tice makes perfect." 
The Irish defense has been far from perfect, but it has shown definite improvement. Cobbins has been the main reason behind the emergence. 
"I said something earlier in the year about us being like the Bad News Bears," defensive coordinator Bob Davie recalled. "We're kind of thin in some spots and we don't have a lot of depth but what we have is some guys who can make plays. The bottom line is keeping people out of the endzone and creating turnovers." 
If the Irish are the Bad News Bears, than Cobbins has been their Kelly Leak ­the kid who hits all the home runs. 
But unlike Leak who was the moody, misunderstood star, Cobbins has the type of personality that people rally around. 
"Lyron is kind of like our funny guy out there on defense," freshman rush end Kory Minor said. "He's always jok­ing around and is fun to play with." 
His enthusiasm doesn't just stay inside either. 
"It's gets you excited when you see him make a big play," said Minor, who has made his fair share thus far in his young career. "He's helped me out a lot, always giving me encouragement." 
"Lyron Cobbins is really one of my favorites because he is a guy that just enjoys football," Davie said. "He's a guy that does it by example. If you're around him, you respect Lyron Cobbins. 
He likes the game, he's tough, he just keeps on ticking just like that old Timex. He's out there every day rain or shine." 
Maybe it has been those days when the sun is shining that has made Cobbins and his fellow linebacker go with the shaded-visors. It's a look that just seems to imply intimidiation, but Cobbins insists there's not much to it. 
"There's really no significance to that," Cobbins explained with a chuckle. "We just started wearing them in prac­tice and before we knew it, we all had them." 
But according to Minor, there is 

something to what meets the eye. 
"Maybe it's part of our mystique or whatever. I think it does reflect our style." 
That style, though still evolving, has started to make its appearance on the field. 
Once a rather passive, bend-don't­break style of defense, the Irish have begun to take coordinator Davie's phi­losophy to heart. Aggressiveness, speed, and the ability to disrupt the opponent are the new hallmarks of Notre Dame. 

"I think it has a lot to do with attitude and resiliency," Davie noted. "As long as you stay 
confident and have faith, something good's gonna happen." 
Much of that attitude can be traced back to the pratice field where Cobbins and company have been dedi­cated since spring ball. 
"Making plays all starts in practice," linebacker Kinnon Tatum said. "We've been playing hard all along. Nothings has really changed. We've just taken advan­tage of the opportunities. 
And while the Irish have given up substantial yardage to most opponents and have proven to be frequently sus-The Observer/Kevin Klau c e p tib I e t0 the 
Linebackers Bert Berry (near), Lyron Cobbins (center), and Kinnon big play they still 
Tatum, all juniors, will be looking to dump a loss on the Air Force. seem to' have the key ingredient for a tough defense -con­fidence. 
"Even if we give up a big play, we never give up because we know we'll come right back and make a play of our own," Cobbins commented. "We can count on each other and we know how to bounce back." 
Crucial late-game plays against Purdue, Washington, and particularly, Army are a testament to that statement. 
In a way, plays turned in by Allen Rossum and Ivory Covington have almost overshadowed the importance of Cobbins' role. 
"He really is a coach on the field," Davie explained. "He calls the signals and makes all the checks at the line of scrimmage. He's really smart." 
Cobbins' instinct have been a long time in the development. 
''I've been making the calls since eight grade. It really just goes with the terri­tory. Our system is not easy but it's not all that tough either." 
Cobbins may not find the defensive scheme to be too much a challenge but keeping his number might be another story. 
"Cobbins wanted to wear number 6 this year and coach Holtz agreed," Davie recounted. "But he only lets guys wear a single digit if they run under a 4.7. I'd hate to put the stopwatch on him because he'd have to give up his num­ber." 
Just as there is a story behind him keeping the number, there also exists an explanation as to why he wanted it. 
"I was sick of being confused with Renaldo Wynn (#48) when I wore 49 so I wanted something new. Plus, I'm my mother's sixth son. " 
Louise Cobbins is probably quite grate­ful for her son's little tribute, but she might not want to hear what Davie has to say about him. 
"Cobbs is a little bit more of the messy, blue-collar guy with his shirt hanging out and his pants might not fit just right." 
Odds are, Cobbins is a bit more metic­ulous about his appearance at home with mom, especially if pie is involved. Apple, that is. 
WE DELIVER! $8.00 Minimum Order Deliverv Hours: 
Mon-Sun 4:30-12:00 
r-------------, r---DINNERFOR rwo---, 
I $10ft :
i$1°0 OFFi 
I •SWEET AND SOUR CHICKEN I 
I •CHICKEN FRIED RICE I
I 
•2 EGG ROLlS
I I •2 CREAM CHEESE WONTONS I 
I I •FORTUNE COOKIES I
271-0125 
I 
I I 
I 
I I
I GOOD THROUGH IV24/9S 
I GOOD THROUGH II/24/9S I 
L NOT VALID WITH ANY OTHER COUPON, ONE COUPON PER ORDER.JI 
L,!O.!,!A~ ~!!_Y!_H~C~o.:.::! ~P2!, P!!, O,!!E:J 

Priday, November 17, 1995 
The Observer • IRISH EXTRA page 7 
~--------------­

Prime Time 
Notre Dame is the lead actor in the complex and highly lucrative television show that is college football. bright lights and big bucks make the show go on. 
N
obody likes the guy wear­dropped the game two weeks ing thebright orange ago. ESPN did not hesitate in glove. The man that sig­snatching it up. And with a nals tirneouts for NBC at Notre slight change in time, the game Dame games is perhaps the suddenly gained a national most haltld man in Notre Dame audience. Stadium. That man alone can It's a normal thing for Notre turn a regular college football Dame to be on national televi­game into a four-hour epic. sion. Only ABC's coverage of But the man serves a neces­their near-loss to Army was sary purpose. And for the regional this season. The rest amount of monny they're pay­have gone coast to coast. ing for the right to televise "Anytime Notre Dame is Notre Dame football, NBC prob­available, we don't hesitate to ably deserves to stretch a game pick them up," ESPN senior out a li ttlfl. publicist Dean Diltz said. "Them's nothing as great as "They're a marquee program being at a Notre Dame football and they always get good rat­game," said Jon Miller, senior ings." vice-president of NBC Sports. The game had to be pushed "There are a lot of commercial back in order to accomodate a need it to survive." But amidst the melee that "We were very concerned 
constitutes a typical Saturday with a plan that would consoli­timeouts, local breaks and insti­5:30 p.m. Alabama-Auburn Whether it's regional or 
tutional messages. We want to game , which was television schedule, Notre date all of college football on previously sched-Dame can take comfort in its one network," said former ath­
be sensitive to the on-site view­home schedule. Though letic director Dick Rosenthal,
ers, so this is something we uled by ESPN. 
much criticized by Irish-who engineered the deal four
have to address. "Depending on haters who like nothing less
"The television experience is the provisions of a 
years ago. "Notre Dame is a 
contract, we might than having to suffer national university and it is
great. We want the on-site 
have the right to through an Irish game tele­important that our games be11xperience to be great as well." 
vised by NBC, it's a very televised on both coastsA typical Irish football game fiddle with the favorable relationship and because our constituency is
is a mierocosm of college foot­time," Diltz said. 
But since Notre one that is envied by schools national."
ball in general, though the rela­across the nation. Networks With the contract, Notre
tionship between Notre Dame Dame-Air Force can only respect it as well. Dame can avoid the last minute and NBC is a little more person­was a last minute "It's not ideal for ESPN, time changes that often plagueal than a general college foot­pick-up, conference because we love to have other universities. This year'sball-nlltwork relationship. contracts such as them on," Diltz said. "But we game at Texas, an 11:30 a.m.
"Nolrtl Dame has the finest the WAC's didn't understand that it's nature scheduled start, was decided
group of people I've ever dealt really apply. 
of the business. It's great for

with," Miller said. "They under­ABC has the right upon two years ago, as was the 
of first choice when Notre Dame." 3:30 start for BC. The Ryderstand what it nwans to be in a 
relationship." it comes to college With a renewed contract, Cup, a USA-European golf tour­Notre Dame and NBC have nament, preceded the UT game
Tlw typieal relationship is games, which are on NBC, while the Breeder's
dominated by television at both chosen a minimum formed a marriage that will 
twelve days in last at least through 2000. Cup, one of America's premierthe permission and benefit of It's the first contract of its horse races, was featured right
the university. While Notre advance. ESPN gets Dame is in a safe NBC haven the leftovers, which generally national, teams adore television kind that assures that all Irish up before the 3:30 kickoff. when it plays at home, many do not make for bad games. coverage. Probably the only home football games will be "That weekend with Ryder 
And since the two are part of place a complaint might enter televised nationally and exclu­Cup action was one of the bestteams do not enjoy the same 
amount of security when it the same company, they have in, however, is when a team is sively by a single network. sports days of the year," Miller Before the contract was said. "You get up, watch golf for 
eomes to television coverage. combined to offer regional covered by a regular network 
The Irish were witnesses in games on a pay-per-view basis. {ABC) versus a cable network sealed in 1991, Notre Dame a few hours, watch the first half Though the time changes will {ESPN). Though the trend is was a member of the College of the Notre Dame game, then
preparation for weekend. 
Football Association, which was watch more golf at halftime.
For a short while, tho Irish be approved by the school 99 definitely changing with the wertl without any exposure for times out of 100, it's not a onslaught of cable, teams would developing a nasty habit of "It was all possible because of Saturday's game with Air process that is taken lightly. It's still rather be televised locally regionalizing college football Notre Dame's willingness to 
one of the only things that keep and reach every home with a games. This, naturally, did not cooperate."
Force. ABC, which had the gamn on its regional schedule television from taking complete television rather than a select appeal to Notre Dame, which And it's ability to stay afloat 
planned for a 3:30 start, control over a game. number across the country. has perhaps the most national in the topsy-turvy world of tele­
"It's alw a mutual deci-"Air Force will get exposure alumni network of any college. vision. by taking this to a broader audience," Miller said. "But cable still does not reach as many people as a network." 
But a school will not turn away from money. It's the dri­ving factor in college athletics these days. 
97 percent of the NCAA's operating budget comes from their contract with CBS, which has exclusive coverage of the NCAA basketball tournament. 
CBS is getting back in on the college football aet. It will even be televising Notre Dame's game with Navy in Ireland next 
-
year, along with its game at Boston College. 
The Observer/Brian Hardy 
Even though NBC sideline reporter John Dockery (left) had a rather heated exchange with the revered Lou Holtz following the 1992 Michigan game, he has become a fixture in Notre Dame Stadium. 

Even Irish superstar Derrick Mayes is aware of the glare of television. Mayes takes time out in last year's Air Force game fol­lowing his record-breaking touch­.... down catch to acknowledge "Dock" with a souvenir for Mr. and Mrs. Mayes and a great little piece for the ever-present eye of the NBC cameras. 



page 8 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA Friday, November 17, 1995 
•JOCIStw 


II GAMES OF INTEREST 
Krug now living in 

#9 COLORADO at #7 KANSAS STATE The Wildcats will be out to confrim that they're for real. Their solid 8-1 season has been greatly over­
PREY· 
TEAM RECORD POINTS IOUS 


shadowed by Northwestern. Don't expect Colorado to
the liiDelight 

give KSU too much respect though. 
1. Nebraska (45) 10-0-0 1530 1 
I
t has the mak-,---------. prised. Indeed over 
2. Ohio State (12) 10-0-0 1476 2
ings of the the past two weeks, 

#20 VIRGINIA TECH at #13 VIRGINIA
3. Florida (5) 9-0-0 1458 3
ideal post-Krug's own ascen-

If Miami stumbles, there is a substantial possibility 
graduate job. dance has been of 
4. Tennessee 8-1-0 1350 4 

that the Hokies will be Notre Dame's bowl opponent 
Lots of immediate lesser importance 
5. Northwestern 9-1-0 1295 5 

by default. A loss to UVA might not even matter.
responsibility. A than the debate over 
6. Florida State 8-1-0 1239 6
chance to make whether Jarious 

#12 MICHIGAN at #19 PENN STATE 
7. Kansas State 9-1-0 1172 7
decisions andgive Jackson will play. 

Big Ten powers Michigan and Penn State have been
8. Notre Dame 8-2-0 1105 8
orders. A number of Tim Seymour ~oneth~less, expe?­

relatively quiet this season but a game pitting two of
9. Colorado 8-2-0 963 9
senior-level mentors Associate tatwns extst. Krug s college football's perenial powerhouses against eachgiving you constant Sports Editor had a career to watch 

10. Texas 7-1-1 950 11 

other is always something to take notice of.
attention. and two weeks to run 
11. Southern Cal 8-1-1 885 12 
The starting quarterback the Notre Dame offense; 
12. Michigan 8-2-0 772 13 

UCLA at #11 SOUTHERN CALposition at Notre Dame therefore conventional wis­The trash-talking Trojans must put up or shut up
13. Virginia 8-3-0 743 14
entails a little bit more than dom suggests he'll perform. 

against cross-town rival UCLA. The Bruins have had
14. Arkansas 8-2-0 725 15
this, though, as Thomas Krug Added to this is the yearly an injury-plagued disappointment of a season but

15. Kansas 8-2-0 685 10
will quickly point out. expectation the Irish has a should be ready for Keyshawn and Co.

It'd be easy to go down the God-given right to a major 
16. Oregon 8-2-0 649 17 
roll of great signalcallers in bowl. The cynics note that a 
.""· 17. Alabama 8-2-0 617 16 

• PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS
Irish history, but the chroni-victory over the Falcons 
--~~ 18. Texas A&M 6-2-0 521 18
cles are dusted off often ensures Notre Dame the $8 
enough. For Krug, the perils million payoff associated with 
20. Virginia Tech 8-2-0 413 21
of the present will suffice. either the Sugar or Orange Everyone speaks of the mo-Bowls. It seems Krug also 
21. Auburn 7-3-Q 405 20 
ment in the spotlight. In his has to cope with the hopes of 
22. Washington 6-3-1 275 22 
debut against Navy, Krug the university treasurer. 
23. Syracuse 7-2-0 147 23 
handled Act I with aplomb, Certainly a lot to ask of a 
24. Clemson 7-3-0 122 24
going 5-8 for two touchdowns man used to the shadows. 
• 25. Miami 6-3-0 53
and a victory in relief. Since 1994, Krug has been 
CJM 
Act II against Air Force will notable primarily as the answer to the trivia question: 
require an even more 
8 THE IRISH EXTRA STAFF 
Who is Ron Powlus' backup?
convincing performance. The 

Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Editor: Mike Norbut
He doesn't even hold for
word that has been the bane of Ron Powlus' career is 
placekicks. 
Managing Editor: Tim Sherman 

Colorado Colorado Colorado starting to encircle Krug: In metaphysical terms, 
Associate Editor: Tim Seymour Virginia Tech Virginia Virginia

expectations. Krug has been a mystery 
Graphic Design: Chris Mullins 
wrapped in an enigma sleep­

Michigan Penn State Penn State 
Not that the expectations 
Production: Thomas Schlidt 
are very high. After all, ing on a couch. Only now he 

Southern Cal Southern Cal UCLAContributing Writers: 
against Navy, fans were hop­has woken up as Notre ing merely for competence, 
Dame's temporary savior. 
Andy Cabiness, Mike Day, and they were pleasantly sur-
The results should be fun. 
Megan McGrath 


Ptpa Predicl1: 
Notre Dame 34 
Air Force 20 
''The Most Popular # on Campus'' Notre Dame Saint Mary's I University Villaue 271-1177 271-7272 
''We're Proud ofthe Irish ... BEAT FALCONS!'' 
~~~ It~

Notre Dame Saint Mary's Store Hours Store Hours* 
r~('~) ·.. s time 
Mon-Th Mon-Sat
I lam-lam 
to Call 
I lam-lam
Fri-Sat llam-3am 
Sunday
Sun Noon-lam 


~~Your PaPa!
Noon-lam 

-


r -----, r -"P;rty"Pa'Ck -, r 7at:Nit':sj;C/;i , r Large1Topping, r -L:cCSp';ial , 
I Large I I 4 Large I I Large I I Bread Stix I I 1 Small 2Topping I I 1Topping Pizza I I 1Topping Pizzas I I 1Topping Pizza I I 2 Cokes I I 2 Cokes I 
4

: $695 ~ : : $2295* :: s595 ~ : : s10oo ~ : : s695 : 
L-----.J L-----.J L---::,:·,:se.J L-----.J L-----.J 
*From I :OOam -3:00am (Fri/Sat Only) Call the ND Store for Delivery Service 



