
Thursday, April27, 1995 • Vol. XXVI No. 129 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

By MARK HUFFMAN 
News Writer 
On Friday, April 21. 1995, the well-rneognized statue of Jesus was rtlturned to its original po­sition atop the pedestal in front of the Administration Building. 
Jesus had fallen over after a vidous storm ripped through the Miehiana region on April 10, which eaused serious dam­age throughout the Notre Dame eampus. 
Amidst felled branches and uprooted trees, the statue was driven to the Notre Dame Art Department in Riley llall, not the Snite Museum. as had been previously reported. aeeording to Assistant Director of the Snite, Charles Loving. 
Despite initial worries, little damage was incurred to the statue of Jesus following the fall. Fr. James Flanigan, an as­sociate Professor in the Art De­partment, said, "the only dam­age done was that the metal base. the pedestal of the sculp­ture. was broken into about three parts. There was no damage to the statue itself." 
The only repair needed, reported Flanigan, was the welding of these pieces. 
Some further repainting of the cast-iron statue was also done while the statue to touch it up. 
In all, the cost of this entire process was too insignificant to report. said Flanigan, since only the welding and the re­painting of Jesus were needed. 
Flanigan summed up the whole situation by saying, "It was as simple as it could get." 
• STUDENT SENATE 
Budget allocations 'meat of meeting' 
Literary, Jazz festivals voted offprobation 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE 
Assistant News Editor 
Funding was the focus of dis­cussion for the Student Senate last night, as budgets were the "meat of the meeting," accord­ing to Student Body President Jonathan Patrick. 
The Senate unanimously ap­proved the allocation recom­mendations of its budget com­mittee. Because it was "sub­stantially inflated," the judicial council commissioner re-
Women around the world 
quested an explanation of the senior class budget, according to Director of Publicity for Stu­dent Government Lou Rad­kowski. 
This request came "in light of the fact that the junior and sophomore classes had funding cut," Radkowski said. "Whenever a particular group receives such a drastic budget increase, there must be ac­countability to the student body through the Senate." 
The Senate also agreed to remove two student events from a three-year probation­ary period, during which the organizers of these events annually reported to the Senate on their budgets, faculty involvement, and student par­ticipation. Because both the Sophomore Literary Festival and the Collegiate Jazz Festival went over their budgets, had too much faculty participation, and had too little student atten­dance in the past, the Senate placed the two organizations on probation. 
At last night's meeting, how­ever, Sophomore Literary Chairperson Allyson Luck and Collegiate Jazz Festival Chair­man Sean Kenney explained to the Senate that improvements had been made. After the rep­resentatives from these two groups spoke to the Senate, Patrick announced his support of the events saying, "My per-
see SENATE I page 4 

A panel discussion Wednesday at the CSC focused on the international condition of women. Women from South Africa, Mexico, and Braxzil shared their experiences. 
The shipping dilemma: How to send stuff home? 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
Shipping Rates for Notre Dame Students
Associate News Editor 
PACKING UP 
PART 1 OF2 
Below are the prices for shipping a 25 lb. package from 
It's the end of the school year. and 
Notre Dame to various cities across the nation. you've got a lot on your mind. Papers. Final exams. Summer jobs. Putting 
•':':":":"'"~ 
·.·.~,,0::;!,;~~;:1~ 
Brnd Ser. 3 Days 2 Doys 
your room back in order. The last thing 
$9.82 $10.98 $21.60
Grnd Ser. 3 Days 2 Days
you want to worry about is how to ship 
~>--" ' 
...
Moreover, the post office charges a fee 
$10.40 :. NIA :<o
your bHlongings home. 
$9.82 $4.32 $14.30 ~.,_.. v...:.~·z~,.··~
to insure packages under $100 in value. 
A comparison of three of the services unlike the Country Harvester and Mailthat are helping students pack and ship Boxes, Etc. Also, the time necessary totheir items shows that the United States ship a package through its ground ser­Postal Service offers the lowest rates, vice can be as much as seven to 10 days, but the other companies offer special whereas the other t'Yo companies canfeatures that may make the extra cost usually ship the packages within 4 days. 
worthwhile. 
"The package will usually arrive with­In a survey of rates for shipping a 25­in five days," said Mike Walsh, postmas­pound paekage from Notre Dame to four ter of the Notre Dame Post Office, "butU.S. cities, the post office's fees are we say seven-to-ten just to be safe." 
consistently the lowest when compared The UPS serviee that Rose Horak oper­to the Country Harvester's UPS service 
$9.82 $10.98 $21.60
ates through her Country Harvester
and the UPS service of Mail Boxes, Etc. 
store in the basement of the LaFortune 
$10.~0 $25.80
Prices at the Notre Dame Post Office 
$9.82 $17.91
Student Center offers slightly higherrange from $4.32 to mail a 25-pound 
$40.40 NIA
prices, but the benefits more than make 
$14.40 $27.90 $35.50
package via ground service to Chicago to 
up for the difference, according to
$46.45 for express next day mail to any 
$20.65 $44.70 NIA 
'J
Horak.
city nationwide. 
"UPS has a much better way of keep­But the low rates come at a cost. 
ing traek of packages," she said. "All The Observe!IChristopher MullinsWhile the Postal Service alTers a special shipments are kept in a log that can be
ground service book rate that ean signif­can be purchased for 40 cents per $100 tiona! insurance is not bought, then fil­
easily retrieved in case something hap­
icantly reduce one's bill to ship books, of increased value. In contrast, the ing a claim can be complicated and diffi­
pens."
eassettes and compact discs to most U.S. postal service charges 90 cents per addi­eult.
And if something does happen, UPS is
cities, it does not guarantee that its sec­tional $100. Nevertheless, students have tradition­
prepared to handle it. The company
ond day priority mail will reach its des­However. insurance claims to UPS can ally been pleased with the Country
o1Ters free insurance for packages up to
tination on time. take about 21 days to clear, and if addi­
$100 in value, and additional insurance see SHIPPING/ page 4 

...-. ·;--;--, .-----------------------------------------~ 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, April 27, 1995 
• INSIDE CoLUMN 
Did I leave my mark? 
As the suns sets on my four-year adventure under the golden dome, I have been a bit frustrated because I felt the need to leave a mark that will remind at least one per­son of my time here. My time here has been 

extremely rewarding to Tom Lillig me, but after the U-Haul Marketing Director 
and I depart on May 21, I 
fear that my four years of ________ growth and adventure will be reduced to simply a tiny, uninspiring listing in the alumni directo­
ry. 
I know that my service to the school hardly merits me a standing monument like the build­ings bearing the name of Hesburgh. DeBartolo found a more expensive way of leaving his mark. Despite the fact that my four years of ever-increasing tuition payments and generous pledges of support to the IJookstore "on the campus" approach six digits, it is not enough of a contribution for the university to give me free football tickets, let alone dedicate a park bench to me. Perhaps in the future I will have enough money to buy my mark on campus, but for now I hope to find a way my words and actions are the reason for a lasting mark. 
By what other means can I leave my mark? I'm not blessed with great athletic ability and I have already forgotten those few shots I sunk during my bookstore basketball career. Nor am I blessed with tremendous artistic or musi­cal skills. I doubt that any of my carefully cho­sen words in class really affected any of my professors or classmates for more than a sec­ond or two. 
To my fellow seniors who know that they have left their mark on the NO community, I salute you and praise you for your contribu­tions. To my fellow seniors who think that they have not left their mark, I ask you to extend the defmition of "leaving your mark" to go beyond the more glorifying forms. Remember the ways in which others have learned from you, grown because of you, and enjoyed life with you. 
I suppose the only people who I have affected are my closest friends. I hardly expect my friends to tell me that I have influenced them in some way, but I know that our interaction has been rewarding to them and will be remem­bered. It may seem much less dramatic than Wooden's memorable batting down of Ward's pass in the final seconds of the game, much less appreciated than DeBartolo's gift, and simply too common an experience to be remembered. 
However, friendship should not be sold short on its effects. "The Game of the Century" only comes to Notre Dame every 25 years, but drama, excitement, or joy can be found in all close friendships almost every week. Also, friendship is appreciated on a very personal level. It is a relationship of two people ground­ed in love. I've never felt strong feelings for Mr. DeBartolo even though he paid for the building that I visit twice a day. The fact that friendship is common does not make it less worthy of being a lasting mark. Through our friendships, we are able leave our own distinc­tive marks. Friendship is accessible to all and is only out of the reach of those who are not willing to give of themselves. 
Instead of becoming frustrated with my inability to leave my mark on the university community, I am at peace with the thought that my friendships have given enjoyable growth experiences to my closest friends. Just as they nave given the same to me. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TOI.lAY'S STAFF 
News Production 
Ethan Hayward Heather Gibson 
Edward Imbus Tara Grieshop 
Sports Lab Tech 
Tom Schlidt Michael Hungeling 
Andy Cabiness Accent 
Graphics Angie Kelver 
Tom JohanessenChris Mullins 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• Wom.o AT A GLANCE 
Five airlifted off mountain after deadly avalanche 
COLORADO SPRINGS 
A helicopter airlifted two injured skiers and three rescuers off a mountain Wednesday, a day after a deadly avalanche and high winds stranded them. .c 
Rescuers reached the five people 5 about noon, after the weather cleared enough to allow an Army helicopter to reach the site, said Bruce Fosdick of El Paso County's rescue squad. 
Sk' B'll Bl · a 1 ·
k'lled in the 
~ 
Fosdick said. A fourth skier, Nate Porter, had been able to hike about four miles down the mountain, Pikes Peak, for help. 
A helicopter dropped three rescuers into the area Tuesday night, but drifts and high winds stranded them and the skiers overnight. 
The two skiers were stuck on the mountain for nearly 18 hours. The rescuers were not injured. 
Wyo. Neb. 
Denver 0 
• Colorado 
•springs 
~ COLORADO 

N. 
M. ' (?.kll:l.:.... 


Tue;~~y :ftern!~~ :v~an che and the 150 miles ' Texas rescue team had to leave his body on the ~ 
mountain until the weather improves, L-........L.---------:-'::-::::-:-::-"And he started slowly to slip away 
AP/Carl Fox and he stopped breathing," Crossey said. 
The avalanche struck at the 13,000-foot level on the east side of the 14,110-foot mountain, which overlooks Colorado Springs. 
The Pikes Peak Highway, the only roadway leading to the avalanche site, was covered by deep and drifting snow. 
Medicine from flower saves child 
PHILADELPHIA 
Three years ago Jaclyn Buckley was diagnosed with leukemia. Today the 6-year-old girl has a 99 percent chance of living a long life because of a cancer-fighting medicine derived from a rare wildflower. An extract from the rosy periwinkle plant put her disease in remis­sion, doctors say. "What we have are children being cured with products from nature," Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt said Wednesday at Children's Hospital, where Jaclyn was treated. Rosy periwinkle, first discov­ered in Madagascar, is one of the many plant and animal species that could become extinct without intervention, and Babbitt said that must not happen. Jaclyn, poster child for the Endangered Species Coalition, gave Babbitt a tiny periwinkle plant and said, "Save the Endangered Species Act." Congress is considering easing provisions of the law, which was passed in 1973. Opponents say the measure does too much damage to landowners and busi­nesses. Taxol, a drug used in treating ovarian and breast cancers, comes from the Pacific yew; the heart medicine digitalis comes from purple foxglove; the wheat fungus ergot helped researchers produce an anti-inflammatory antihistamine to treat allergies and motion sickness; and the Australian mulberry tree and the Cameroon vine tree produce AIDS-fighting compounds. 
Bobby Brown arrested after bar fight 
ORLANDO 
Singer Bobby Brown and two companions were arrest­
ed early Wednesday and charged in the beating of a 
nightclub patron, police said. Witnesses said the fight 
started when Brown, husband of Whitney Houston, was 
talking to a woman at the Mannequin nightclub and 
another patron tried to break into the conversation. 
After the woman said she didn't want to speak to the 
man, police said, Brown and his companions beat him up. 
Brown, 26, publicist Travis Boyce, 26, and bodyguard 
Gary Smith, 27, were charged with aggravated assault 
and disorderly conduct. Brown, whose hits include "My 
Prerogative" and "Every Little Step," urinated inside a 
police car and gouged four-letter words into the uphol­
stery, said Orange County sheriffs spokesman Carlos 
Espinosa. The three men were released on $5,000 bail 
each. If convicted, they face up to 15 years in prison on 
the felony assault charge and 60 days on the misde­
meanor disorderly conduct charge. 

Dan Crossey, 42, was treated for hypothermia, cuts and bruises. Mike Houston, 41. was in stable condition after surgery to repair a broken pelvis and thigh bone. 
"You get your gloves ripped off and your hat ripped off," Crossey said. "You keep hoping it will stop before you get hit with the one that knocks you out." 
After digging himself out of the snow, Crossey said he tried to get Blair's gloves back on and scooped snow out of his hood before realizing Blair's head was bleeding. 
Banks begin to charge fees for tellers 
CHICAGO 
Want to deposit your paycheck with a bank teller rather than a cash machine? Many customers of Chicago's largest bank could pay $3 just to do that beginning in June, and industry observers say it won't be long before more banks begin imposing similar fees. Customers at First National Bank of Chicago say that when it comes to bank charges, they can't win. "We are slapped with A TM fees if we use them beyond a certain number of times, which makes me go to the counter," customer Ken Movick said Wednesday. Bank consultants say the move mirrors changes in the way customers do business and such fees are likely to spread throughout the industry. David Taylor, executive vice president of the Bank Administration Institute, said banks are doing this because "they are handling a smaller percentage of cus­tomers with the same number of bank tellers and branch offices." Taylor, whose organization educates bankers on industry changes, said at least 50 percent of the nation's bank customers no longer visit tellers to do their banking. Instead, they do their business over the tele­phone, through direct deposit or by automatic teller machines, he said. Officials at First Chicago Corp., First National's parent company, said about 70 percent of the bank's customers do most of their banking electronically. 
City orders barcoding of cats 
NOVATO, Calif. 
Keeping tabs on tabby has taken a high-tech turn. Novato, a Northern California city on Wednesday man­dated microchip implants for its feline residents. The new ordinance aims to use the same bar code technology that prices groceries to track lost cats. "This ordinance is about saving lives," Marin Humane Society Executive Director Diane Allevato said during more than four hours of City Council debate. The 3-1 vote means residents face $45 fines if they fail to sterilize and register their outdoor cats and pay annual licensing fees. Registration means injecting grain-size microchips between cats' shoulders. If the cat turns up at the Marin Humane Society's city shelter, a wave of a scanning wand will reveal the eat's 10-digit bar code with owner information, the humane society says. "If it's OK to microchip cats, when are humans going to be microchipped?" asked opponent Garth Page. The national humane society says it knows of no other mandatory cat computerization program in the United States, although pet owners in Spain must either tattoo or microchip their animals. 


Pressure 
' ' ''' 
llndianapoli4 62° I 
• 
H L ffi ISSJ [Til 0 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES VIa Aasoclated Presa 
Atlanta n 48 Dallas 67 Bahimore 76 44 Denver 60 Boston 60 44 Los Angeles 7 4 Chicago 54 49 Miami 83 
VlaAssocistsd PISSS GnlphJcsNet C1995 Accu-Wealhar, Inc. 
Columbus 64 50 Minneapolis 49 
The Accu-Weather<~~> forecast for noon, Thursday, April 27. 
60s Unes separate high temperature zones for the day. 

fZ3  Q  ~ ~  ~ r'\ L-!. c.........i  
SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  PT. CLOUCJY  CLOUDY  
52  New Orleans n  61  
25  New York  68  50  
57  Philadelphia 75  48  
74  Phoenix  92  63  
35  St. Louis  59  49  


Thursday, April 27, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
AFROTC names
New dual degree program offered 
Fall 1995 Wing 
By GREG VANSlAMBROOK very well qualified in areas that Pratt. ninety-nine credit hours in News Writer they couldn't before." "It helps to know what ques­three years." 
Commander
The scientific knowledge tions to ask," he said. In patent But he has already received Spcc;ial f() The Observer
The study of law and the should prove advantageous for law, "a lawyer may need tech­positive response: "I've had 
study of engineering are not typically thought to complement each other. 
But this in-depth interdiscipli­nary study is the focus of a new dual degree graduate program to be offered by the University of Notre Dame. 
The program, jointly adminis­tered by the Notre Dame Law School and the College of Engi­neering, will otTer graduate stu­dents the opportunity to take classes and gain degrees from both schools. 
Walter Pratt, associate dean of the Law School, says that the idea of combining the two stud­ies was a response to the tech­nical needs of lawyers in fields such as environmental and patent law. 
"It's an exciting opportunity for people," he said. "It will give them a chance to become Law School graduates in their careers. 
For instance, said Pratt. "an environmental lawyer needs to know the chemical and struc­
'Alawyer may need 
technical exper­tise to deal with scien­tists challenging a patent.' 
Walter Pratt 
tural effects of garbage leach­ing into the soil, or of smoke as it spreads." 
Today's lawyers in cases such as these need to be able to un­derstand and deal with the sci­entists who will be important parts of the procedure, said nical expertise to deal with sci­entis~s challenging a patent." 
To participate in the pro­gram, students will need to go through standard admissions procedures with both graduate programs separately. 
If accepted to both, a student would complete the normal degree requirements of both schools concurrently. 
The advantage of this, according to Pratt, is the time saved. 
Normally, a student would spend three years toward a Ju­ris Doctor degree and one year toward a master's degree in engineering. 
With the new joint program, both can be completed together in three years. 
Obviously this will require ex­tra work. "It will be tough," said Pratt. "They're taking four or five law students ask h?w to apply." 
The program will also be ben­eficial to the school itself, he said. "What they learn in engi­neering will contribute a lot to what we do in this building," he said. "It will make life at the Law School more energetic and diverse." 
Such programs combining degrees are rare among law schools, according to Pratt. 
He knows of about five schools which offer joint sci­ence studies, but none with a full dual degree program with engineering. 
However, Pratt does not see programs such as Notre Dame's as the future of law education: "I would like to see more inter­disciplinary work at law schools," he said, "but it is unlikely." 
Air Force ROTC has an· nounced its Fall 1995 Wing Commander, Bridget McNa­mara. McNamara is a Biological Sciences major from Duncanvill, Texas, and lives in Cavanaugh Hall. Her new rank will be cadet colonel. 
She will assume command on May 3. She will relieve the current Air Force ROTC cadet commander Adam Anderson. 
Anderson is a senior Science Pre-Professional Studies major from Nunica. Michigan. He will be graduat­ing magna cum laude and will be attending Loyola Stritch School of Medicine where he . will receive an Air Force Health Professions Scholarship. The scholarship includes· full tuition and a monthly stipend 
--------1 
Xian: Chinese development demands patience 
By MARK HUFFMAN News Writer 
China's democratization has brought more than a compro­mise between socialism and capitalism; it has ushered in a new way of economic and polit­ical being for the twenty-first century. 
"The whole world takes great interest in China's speedy de­velopment, but it will be a grad­ual advancement. which will r'equire patience," said Gao Xian, secretary of the General Chinese Center for Third World Studies. Xian. also director of the Chinese Association of Inter­national Economic Cooperation. spoke yesterday on "Reform and Controversies: Some Comments on Current China." 
In a systematic lecture that answered seven fundamental questions about the growth of China, Xian addressed present problems faced by leaders of the Far Eastern superpower. First, in China's attempt to be more theoretically sound, Xian weighed China's options in a socialist market, balancing the equity of socialism with the prosperity of capitalism. 
"China's economic outlook should not be dogmatically or rigidly socialist, nor should she merely copy the capitalism from Western nations," said Xian. Instead, he focused on the practicality of China's new economy which seemingly com­bines both economic forms, so as to meet China's own needs. 
Addressing his second ques­tion, "Is China theoretically consistent?," X ian likened the country's course of action to "crossing a river by feeling one's way along the stones," an ancient proverb. He feels that China's "gradual advancement has been... pragmatic, evolu­tionary, and incremental," which has allowed theories to develop while still being appli­cable and practical. 
Inter-regional imbalance seems to be an inevitable prob­lem for the Chinese as Communist China never addressed this problem. From the time that the "Open Door" policy was introduced, China has given preferential treat­ment to Special Economic Zones (SEZ) and the coastal regions, because these were the typical areas of economic growth. By opening up areas around the Great Silk Road and inland borders today, Chinese legislature can now narrow this imbalance, said Xian. 
With many of these new in­fluences from the outside world, China has also faced a near-ethical crisis, or, "an un­healthy phenomenon," accord­ing to Xian. Corruption, em­bezzlement. counterfeiting, kid­napping, prostitution, and the degradation of morals have all increased, due to the leniency of the new open doors. However. as the legal construc­tion nears completion and the original Chinese morals resur­face, "the present situation will gradually improve," said Xian, as the Chinese return to the morality of their near-national Confucian thinking. 
Democratization is at the focal point of China's reform. ever since the tragedy at Tienneman's Square in 1989, commented Xian. Today. he said, the degree of democracy is far from where it needs to be, but there is a general trend toward administrative reform. Through the decentralization of the federal government and the separation of enterprise man­agement from governmental intervention, China can further itself in the democratic realm. 
Furthermore, in the ever­problematic issue of succession, Xian feels that China will face a loss in the death's of its leaders, but no longer will disasters re­sult. Through systematic facili­tation of the younger genera­tion into leadership roles, fu­ture transitions should run quite smoothly, and revolutions, less likely. 
In the final analysis, though, "China needs to exert a strenu­ous effort for a long time before a majority of her people can enjoy affiuence," said Xian. 

Join the real world with the right career. 
We're Hewitt Associates LLC, a global benefits consulting firm based in suburban Chicago. You'll find us listed in 
l't1e JQO Best Companies To Work For In America. And due to our unparalleled growth, we're out to find the best can­didates for career entry analyst opportunities in our innovative client-server environment. Formal training will be pro­vided. If you have an outstanding GPA, an analytical mind, and the desire to get into exciting project work right away, let'S find out more about each other. Send your resume including GPA (transcript preferred) to: Dave Quinn, Hewitt Associates LLC, P.O. Box 221, Lincolnshire, IL 60069. Or, fax to 708•883•0076. Equal Opportunity Employer. 
Hewitt Associates 
•
Helping Cients Around The World Improve Business Results Through People. 

--~--~-....,....---­
page4 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, April 27, 1995 
to sell. One dollar will be taken them," according to Patrick. 
off the cost of each piece of fur­The banner will be in the con­
New artificial limbs 
Senate 
niture sold. The money ac­course of the Hesburgh Library 

Merchandise Blowout 
F'SQ· 
Polar Fleece $50 '4-ts."S'I
0 
Hooded Sweatshirts:$35 
All other 111erchandise 20% off 
Main Lounge, LaFortune Student Center Friday, 4/28/95: 12:00-8:00pm Saturday, 4/29/95: 9:00-7:00pm 
return sense of touch 
By STEVE SAKSON 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
When Chuck Tiemann lost his right leg and left arm in an ac­cident 15 years ago, he thought many of life's simple joys were forever lost to him. 
Now the 39-year-old Braman, Okla., man has regained some of those lost sen5ations as part of the first group of amputees to test a new generation of artificial limbs that return the sense of touch. 
"The first time I could reach out and touch my wife's hand and feel the warmth after more than a decade -that was a very emotional moment," he said. 
The sensory system is being dtlveloped by the Sabolich Pros­thetic Research Center in Okla­homa City, a division of No­vacare Inc., a large physical rehabilitation company based in King of Prussia, Pa. 
Sabolich planned to formally unveil the system Thursday. 
The system uses pressure and temperature sensors and electronic circuits embedded in false arms and legs. 
These circuits are connected to electrodes inside a prosthe­sis' socket which touch the skin of the truncated limb. 
The electrodes transfer pres­sure pulses, or sensations of heat or cold, to surviving nerve endings. 
John Sabolich, Novacare's national prosthetics director, said two years of tests began this spring that ultimately will involve 120 amputees nation­wide. 
The research is partly funded by roughly $500,000 from the National Institutes of Health. The products could be on the market in under a year. 
Researchers have been test­ing these sensory systems on one or two people at a time since the 1950s, said Clayton Van Doren. a professor who does such work at Case West­ern Reserve University in Cleveland. · 
But he said Sabolich's work is the first commercial applica­tion. 
"The single thing we most need right now is exactly what Sabolich is doing -putting something on the market." 
Patients have described the sense of touch they get as a tin­gling, "like the feeling you get when your foot's asleep," Sabolich said. 
Tiemann, a former utility lineman who lost his leg and arm in an accident atop an electrical pole, said he likes feeling the clutch of his pickup truck, or knowing the tempera­ture of a cup of coffee he's about to grab with his prosthet­ic hand. 
He said the sensory system and other innovations help am­putees regain a sense of nor­malcy. 
"When I woke up from my amputations, I felt mutilated. I said 'How can I ever live a regular life again?' 
Fifteen years later, the answer is 'Yes, without a doubt."' 
continued from page 1 
sonal opinion is that we should remove the groups from pro­bation." 
As a result of the Senate's unanimous approval, both the Sophomore Literary Festival and the Collegiate Jazz Festival will be taken off probation. 
Student Body Vice President Dennis McCarthy announced a rummage sale this Saturday at Stepan Center, where students can bring furniture they want 
Shipping 
continued from page 1 
Harvester's service. The store does over one-third of its ship­ping business during the months of April and May. 
"UPS far surpasses any other service in quality and timeli­ness," said Horak, who has used UPS as her store's shipper of choice for six years. "They stand by their word." 
Terry Wilkin of Mail Boxes, Etc. agrees. His company also uses UPS to ship its customer's packages. 
"They are well known in the industry," Wilkin said, "and their workers are very well­trained." 
Mail Boxes, Etc., an off-cam­pus firm that will set up its business on the Notre Dame 
1Engagement Rings 
10%-15% OFF! Official Wholesale Price List! 

S.A. Peck & Co. 55 E. 'llllshington, Chicago, IL 60602 For a Free 32-Pag• Color Catalog 
Toll-Fret (800) 922-009G FAX (312) 977-0248i:memet Calalog aJ bttp: l!www.~apeck.comlsapeck 
cumulated will be given to charity, McCarthy said. 
In response to the bombing in Oklahoma City, the Senate will show its support of the victims, their families. and those help­ing in the aftermath. The Sen­ate will make an effort to have Notre Dame "The Shirts" sent to the firemen in Oklahoma City. There will also be a ban­ner available for students to sign, which will serve as "ages­ture from the student body say­ing that our prayers are with 
campus beginning Monday, May 8, offers a comprehensive service plan to attract cus­tomers, including free pick-up of items from each dorm and $1 off each box not necessitat­ing pick-up. 
The company also provides professional taping and-Jabeh ing services free of charge. 
Mail Boxes, Etc. offers these benefits partly to compensate for the high fees that it charges. The company is forced to charge the highest 
IHIOJLY CCIFtO~~ IHIAJLIL 
BLOCK PARTY!!! 
FEATURING: BIG EARL LITTLE MILTON SHADY ELAINE THURSDAY, APRIL 27 7:00-11:00 P.M. SOUTH SIDE OF MADELEVA RAIN LOCATION: HAGGAR TERRACE $1 DONATION TO BENEFIT THE MARA FOX SCHOLARSHIP FUND 
by finals week, according to Chief of Staff Mark Mitchell. These measures are being taken by the Senate rather than having a check sent to the bombing site because student groups "can't make direct char­itable contributions with stu­dent funds, according to the student government constitu­tion," Mitchell said. 
Patrick also introduced Leslie Field, who will be serving as the Saint Mary's Representative to the Student Senate. 
rates among the three firms because it must pay rent to the University in order to use the spaces on the Stepan basket­ball courts and the Lyons Hall courts for the two weeks during May. 
For example, a 25-pound package shipped from Notre Dame to Los Angeles via the three-day service costs $44.70 when Mail Boxes, Etc. is used, but only $27.90 when using the Country Harvester's service. 

I 4 1 • 
I I" I I I It • • 
Thursday, April 27, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Lombardi designs MASC logo Stanford defeats Grace 
in Iceberg Debate final 
By JESSICA BATTLE News Writer 
Julie Lombardi, a sophomore business major and art minor at Saint Mary's College, has designed a symbol for the Michiana Arts and Science Council's new campaign for awareness of the arts. 
The theme for the campaign, "Arts and Humanities-The Inspiration Superhighway" was presented to the Introduction to Graphic Design class at the University of Notre Dame. Each member of the class was required to create a logo. In to­tal, twenty designs were sub­mitted. 
"It is a very uplifting and en­ergetic symbol," said Lombardi. "The design visually communi­cates a fluid image. The two genderless, rhythmic figures that embrace the dancing star, signify humanity and inspira­tion." 
Lombardi has been involved in graphic design since the age of fifteen. She creates designs for Habitat for Humanity, a benefit organization that builds houses for the homeless. 
She also designs their Christmas cards and t-shirts for the Rock for Humanity Benefit Concert every year. 
"I like to create posters, t­shirts, designs, and album cov­ers for bands," said Lombardi. The album cover for campus the band, Decaf. was her most recent accomplishment. 
"I get a lot of my inspiration from architecture," she said. "Also, anything from music to just simple things I see when I walk around. I enjoy modern art." 
Her design will be transcribed to stationery, banners,. print ads and other connected facets of involvement with the Michiana Arts and Science Council. 

The Council plans to design a media campaign using Lombardi's logo, accompanied by a slogan, that would empha­size the cultural impact and so­cial needs met by the Arts. 
Lombardi's design is flexible, in that the star can be replaced by a sun or moon to signify spe­cia! events occurring during the day or night. 
"I was excited, when my de­sign was accepted because the whole class will be working with it," Lombardi said. 
Lombardi will continue to pursue graphic design in hopes one day to work for an architecture firm, do documen­tations on architecture or free lance work for other compa­nies. 
ByJAMIE HEISLER News Writer 
For the second year in a row, Stanford Hall participated in the final round of the Iceberg Debates. The series of inter­dorm debates were founded in the 1988-89 school year "to increase student awareness of current issues as well as to pro­mote dorm related intellectual life and to provide the opportu­nity for students to improve their public speaking skills. 
While Stanford lost to Pangborn last year in the final round, this year they took the title, defeating the Grace team with the judges tally of 3-2. 
Led by debaters Jason Spak and Chris Regan, Stanford argued the affirmative of the topic RESOLVED: the United States Should Adopt an Amendment to the Constitution Requiring a Balanced Federal Budget. Grace, arguing the negative was led by Pat Brady and George Holloway. 
Under the rules of the de­bates, each team member is given three minutes to make a constructive speech which ar­gues their main points either for the affirmative or negative. The other side is then allowed to cross examine the debater on the points he made in his speech. After all four have spo­ken and been cross-examined, they are given time to prepare for the rebuttal speech which sums up their main points and answers any challenges made by the other side. 
As affirmative, Stanford de­bated first, focusing on three main points. They claimed that a federal balanced budget was good for the children [future generations), good for us [the general public], and would re­store pride in America. 
After cross examination, Grace stated their position which focused on two main is­sues. They felt that a federal balanced would not only have "devastating economic conse­quences" but would also cause the "destruction of the balance of power [between the three branches of the government}" according to Pat Brady. 
The focus of the debates then became what the impact of the balanced budget would be and whether or not the constitution was meant to be amended in this manner. 
The close final score indicat­ed the competitiveness and the public speaking skill of the two teams. "It was extremely close; we were really lucky to win. It was a tough topic which re­quired much research on our part," said Spak. 
John Emery, who organized this year's debates, agreed, "The topic lent itself to a good debate-a lot of clash. Both sides had good arguments, and it was a good debate." 
Chris Regan, a sophomore from Stanford, was named best speaker also by a score of 3-2. According to Regan, however, the most important idea is that the victory was a team achieve­ment. Along with tonight's debaters, other members of the Stanford team included Karen Dubay and Matt Hoefling. Other members of the Grace team included Mike Molnar and John Gardner. 
Being astudent is hard. So we've made buying aMacintosh• easy. So easy, in fact, that the prices on Macintosh personal computers are now even lower
1\vothingsyou can afford to miss. 
than their already low student prices: Unfortunately, they won't stay this low forever. Soyou need to forget about how hard your life is for a minute and start thinking about how easy it will bewithaMacintosh.The comput­er that gives you the power any student can use.The power to be your bese AppletlI_ 

Product prices, producJ atuilabilily and sales ta.res may 11ary. ©1995 Apple Compuler, !11c. All rlgb/s resenoed. Apple, /he Apple logo, MaciiiiOIJb, Maci11losh Pr!forma, PowerBook a11d "7be power lo heJllUr best"' are registered lrrJdemaris ofApple Compuler, Inc. Pnwer Macin/osb atid Mac are lrademarlts ofAp(Jie Compuler, Inc. All Apple"producls are designed to be accessible to individuals wilh disability. 1b IMm more (U.S. anly), call 800·776·2333 or TDD 800·833·6223. 
p!lge 6 The Observer • WASHINGTON Thursday, April27, 1995 
Deutch to shake up CIA 
By ROBERT BURNS technologies. He is a former dean of sci­Associated Press ence at Massachusetts Institute of Technology and was the No. 3 official at WASHINGTON the Energy Department in the Carter 
John Deutch, the prospective new head administration. of the CIA, told his Senate confirmation "The president has offered you a partic­hearing Wednesday he would move ularly difficult and thankless job," Kerrey quickly to shake up the embattled spy told the nominee. "But if anyone in this agency, including replacing several of its country is up to the task, it is you." senior managers. Foremost on the minds of the Senate 
Deutch also said he might support shift­Intelligence Committee, it appeared, was ing some of the CIA's overseas responsi­a desire to get the CIA leadership transi­bilities -specifically those related to tion under way as quickly as possible. countering terrorism, drug trafficking and crime -to the FBI. He stressed that There is a strong feeling that the the CIA must retain other foreign op­agency has been adrift at a critical time erations such as the use of human and in its history. technical means to spy on other coun­Deutch indicated he intended to play tries. more than a caretaker role at CIA at a 
"I believe that it is time for a new gen­time when the future role of the spy erations of leaders at the CIA and in the agency is being reviewed not only by the intelligence community," Deutch, now two congressional oversights committees deputy defense secretary, told the Senate but also by a presidential commission. Intelligence Committee. "I believe that major changes are need­
Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., chairman of ed, and I would anticipate taking signifi­the committee, praised Deutch's qualifi­cant action immediately upon confirma­cations and said he saw no obstacle to tion," Deutch said in his opening state­rapid confirmation by the full Senate. ment. The committee later fmished the hearing "It would be my intention to bring in in closed session and was expected to several new people to fill upper manage­vote in a day or two to recommend his ment positions." he said without specify­confirmation by the full Senate. There ing which posts he had in mind. Asked were no opposition witnesses at the hear­later whether, for example, he intended ing. to replace Frederick Hitz as the CIA's in­
If confirmed, Deutch, 56, who has spector general, Deutch said, "No, I have served as deputy defense secretary for great confidence in him." the past two years, would replace R. Deutch said improving the management James Woolsey, who quit as CIA chief in of the CIA was his "first and most impor­early January. tant challenge," because it has a bearing 
Since Woolsey's resignation, Deputy CIA on a major problem at CIA: morale. Director Adm. William Studeman has "I have never in iny whole career seen been acting director. people as disheartened" as those at the 
Virtually every member of the intelli­CIA are today, he said. "They feel gence committee spoke highly of Deutch. abused" by the controversy that has None gave any indication of opposition, engulfed the agency in recent years, he although some questioned the wisdom of said. President Clinton's plan to make Deutch a Deutch also was questioned gently member of his Cabinet. about accusations by some veterans 
·Sen. Robert Kerrey, D-Neb., the ranking groups that he was reluctant, in his job at Democrat on the committee, told Deutch the Pentagon, to release all relevant he was particularly pleased that Clinton information on whether U.S. troops were had chosen someone with a strong techni­exposed to chemical agents during the cal background, since many of the tough Gulf War. decisions about the nation's future intelli­"All information on this should be made gence investments lie in the area of public," Deutch said, adding that the CIA advanced technology. had undertaken its own review of 
Deutch is a chemist by training and has whether Iraq used chemical arms in the had extensive experience in defense war. 
MADISON OYSTER BAR 
-W2 1-:.l'-l I\1.tLihlll1 ~trL'L'l ~llltth l)l't1LI,IN (2llJ) 2KK-)7/() 
APPEARING LIVE IN APRIL 
Lack of funds limits security provided for federal buildings 
By DAVID MORRIS ·risk and put the resources where the Associated Press needs are," Boyd said. Unlike federal officers, the contract WASHINGTON guards are not armed and cannot 
The law calls for 1,000 uniformed make arrests. officers to guard federal buildings "Basically, what we are looking for is around the country, but fewer than security officers, not greeters," 400 are on duty, a review of govern-Sturdivant said. "Unfortunately, with a ment documents shows. As the number lot of these security firms, you have the has fallen, serious security incidents equivalent of greeters." and threats have risen. The union went to arbitration when 
Why the decrease in guards? GSA did not meet the 1,000 officer 
Officials "simply didn't obey the requirement. law," says John Sturdivant, president In 1992, an arbitrator ruled in the of the American Federation of union's favor but said he did not have Government Employees. the power to force the administration 
Congress did not earmark enough to act. money, counter officials of the General Since then, the number of uniformed Services Administration. officers has continued to drop and 
"While the hiring of additional (offi-General Services has discussed moving cers) is not possible at the present toward privatization of the entire secu­time, GSA remains committed to pro-rity force. viding the highest level of security 1tna ··• Harry Dawson, president of union protection for our federal tenants and locals that represent GSA workers, the public who regularly visit public said he would not participate in any buildings under our custody and con-further discussions aimed at limiting trol," agency administrator Roger the number of officers. Johnson wrote in a Feb. 15 letter to "I will not take part in a privatization Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan, D-New study involving security any more," he York. said. "It would be an insult to the 
Congress moved to increase the size memory of those victims." of the federal security force in 1988, The union may get a helping hand in ordering GSA to hire at least 50 addi-June, when Attorney General Janet tional officers each year and to reach Reno is scheduled to issue a report on the equivalent of 1,000 fulltime officers security at federal buildings. President by 1992. There were about 750 at the Clinton asked for the review after last time. week's bombing. 
By the time of last week's bombing of The Oklahoma City tragedy came as the Federal Building in Oklahoma City, federal workers in some areas were fewer than 400 uniformed officers already on edge. In Nevada, for were on the payroll, said Jim Boyd, a instance. U.S. Forest Service employ­security specialist for the Federal ees do not go into the field alone Protective Service, a division of GSA. because of threats. 
He said that as the number of offi-And in New York City, security at the cers has declined, the service has had federal courthouse has been intensified to rely on contract guards to help for a trial connected to the bombing at patrol federal buildings. the World Trade Center. 
With 2,300 contract guards, about There have been about 10 bomb­400 uniformed officers, 150 security related incidents a year at federal specialists and 70 criminal investiga-facilities, according to statistics com­tors, GSA has a force of about 3,000 piled by the Bureau of Alcohol, people to patrol 8,200 buildings owned Tobacco and Firearms. or leased by the federal government. Last year, there were also 381 inci­That means some buildings go uncov-dents involving weapons or bomb ered. threats, one homicide and more than 
"Obviously, we have to assess the 600 assaults at federal buildings. 

27-Thursday 
Jimmy Lane Blues 
30-sunday28-Friday 29-Saturday 
&nBJ..Bz:z 111 
AedBeans&Rice 
lliriChamberlaln Blues 
Jazz 
Till 'H. SHC l\\' ST.A.I\TS AI lJ Jnn/IU/S:\T ST.\I<T\ XI IL1Jnn \dJt'diill' \uh/l't 1 111 l.hun~l' Call 2 35-3409 

The following members of the Notre Dame community will be Confirmed in the Catholic Church: 
Suzanna _Adams, Jill Albanese, Thomas Asci, Erin Bowman, Jesstca Buchanan, Colleen Campbell, Francis Cloran, Jeff Gagnon, Todd Garlitz, Tabia Graham, Jeff Ho, Andrea Jordan, Julia Kleiser, Claire Kolkoski, lsabela Marchi, Scott Morgan, M. Delfina Muniz. Beth Murchison, Shannon Ortega, Mia Pasquinelli, Hans Patuwo, Tony Popanz, Ray Prado, Paola Ramirez Cristan Reali, John Rooney, Jenifer Roe, Greg Sabo, Ertc Patrick Salas, Tanya Scapanski, Carrie Teibel, Andria Wisler, and Roger Zalneraitis 
Rite of Confirmation and Mass Sunday. April 30. 1995 2:00p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart Bishop Joseph R. Crowley. presider 
Please Come and Support These Candidates 


Thursday, April27, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Serbs demand flight embargo 
By SAMIR KRILIC U.N. spokesman Alexander Associated Press Ivanko said the United Nations 
SARAJEVO 
The United Nations may run out of fuel in Bosnia unless it bows to Serb demands to re­strict civilian use of Sarajevo's fi-ont-line airport. 
U.N. officials met today with Bosnian Serbs to discuss the is­sue. 
Last weekend, the Serbs re­fused to allow U.S. and German diplomats to enter Sarajevo from the front-line airport. They also refuse to guarantee they won't shoot at airplanes carrying civilians. 
The rebels appear to be reacting to world moves to iso­late them for refusing to endorse a plan to end three years of war and give them 49 percent of Bosnia. They now hold about two-thirds. 
The Serbs seem less likely than ever to compromise. Their top leaders, Radovan Karadzic and Gen. Ratko Mladic, were named by a war crimes tri­bunal on Monday as suspects. 
In the first official Serb reac­tion, the so-called Bosnian Serb Information Ministry said it did not recognize the U.N. court's authority and accused it of bias. 
"The government considers the forming of the tribunal and its work as calculated to politi­cally disqualify the Serb people and their legitimate right to self-determination," a state­ment carried by the Bosnian Serb news agency SRNA said. "Undoubted military and politi­cal supremacy of the Serb side in the Bosnian civil war ... can­not be taken as evidence that that side committed crimes." 
hoped to reach agreement to­day about exactly who may use the Sarajevo airport. 
The United Nations also will be seeking safety guarantees to resume the humanitarian air­lift, suspended since April 8. 
The meeting began this af­ternoon at Serb headquarters in Pale, east of Sarajevo. 
U.N. 
fuel supplies are criti­cally low and could run out within a week. Serbs denied security guarantees to all fuel convoys Tuesday, leaving the airport as the only lifeline for 

U.N. 
troops in Sarajevo. 


The Serbs have long been angered that some Bosnian government passport-holders have been able to use U.N. flights. 
The United Nations says that with few. ex:.ceptions, civilians are not covered under a strict interpretation of a 1992 agree­ment under which it controls the airport. 
In a letter to the U.N. Security Council, Bosnian President Alija Izetbegovic said his Muslim-led government would accept no changes in how the airport is run. 
All flights, except a mercy flight for a wounded French peacekeeper, were canceled Tuesday after a U.N. cargo plane was hit by bullets Mon­day. 
Seven flights were scheduled today. 
Serbs continued their ha­rassment of peacekeepers in Bosnia. A U.N. military ob­server team was stopped Tues­day by three armed men in uniforms near Serb-held Ilidza, who hijacked their vehicle. 
The peacekeepers were freed, U.N. officials said today. 
In another incident Tuesday, Pakistani peacekeepers appar­ently came under Serb fire on a front-line route about 35 miles north of Sarajevo. 
After several successful offensives by government forces in recent weeks, Serbs have increasingly squeezed Sarajevo. 
Seven people were wounded Tuesday, including five who were hurt when a bus carrying civilians was hit by sniper fire in the suburb of Nedjarici. 
U.N. officials reported an in­crease of shelling in the Bihac pocket in northwest Bosnia. 
On Tuesday, 10 shells hit Bihac, a U.N.-designated safe 
area, badly wounding a  38­ 
year-old  woman  and  a  36­ 
year-old man.  

With a four-month cease-fire expiring Monday, governments of several European countries are reconsidering the deploy­ment of their troops in the gov­ernment-held Muslim enclaves of Gorazde and Srebrenica in eastern Bosnia. 
Some 750 Dutch peacekeep­ers in Srebrenica and about 400 British soldiers in Gorazde are due to be rotated in next four months. 
Their governments are ask­ing the U.N. Security Council to use other nations' troops. 
The problem for the United Nations will be to find peace­keepers whose nationality satisfies both sides. 
U.N. 
sources said that even a 

U.N. 
reconnaissance team from a Muslim co11ntry has been denied passage to Gorazde by Serbs. 


Phillipine police arrest suspected terrorists 
Associated Press 
MANILA 
Four Arab and five Filipino Muslims have been arrested on suspicion of terrorism, the na­tional police chief said today. 
There has been growing con­cern over Islamic fundamental­ist violence in the Philippines since a defendant in the World Trade Center bombing was dis­covered in January to be living in Manila and allegedly work­ing with local Muslim extrem­ists. The nine were arrested in weekend raids. 
National Police chief Recaredo Sarmiento said three of the Arabs were believed responsible for a grenade attack on a Roman Catholic cathedral in December 1993 in Davao City. That attack killed seven people and injured 140 others. 
Sarmiento identified the three as Nedal Saleh Odeh, a Kuwaiti medical student, and Mohammad Jubran and Ahmad Jubran, Palestinians from Jor­dan. 
Sarmiento said they were ranking members of al-Gama 

al-Islamiya, which is fighting to topple the Egyptian govern­ment and install strict Islamic rule. 
Police who arrested the men also seized several improvised bombs, a gun, a car and pam­phlets of Hamas, a group op­posed to the Palestine Libera­tion Organization's peace ac­cord with Israel, he said. The three were arrested with three Filipinos in Davao, 600 miles southeast of Manila. 
The fourth foreigner, Mahaud 
AP/VI/m. J. Castello Affif Abdejalil, a Jordanian, was arrested in Zamboanga City, 250 miles west of Davao, police said. 
Abdejalil is believed to have links with Ramzi Yousef, who is being tried in New York for al­legedly masterminding the February 1993 World Trade Center bombing. 
Yousef eluded arrest in Manila in January while al­legedly plotting an attack against Pope John Paul II. 
Campus View Apartments SUMMER LEASES 
6 weeks to 3 months 
Furnished Apartments, All Uti Iities Covered, Central Air 
For more information Call 272-1441 
pageS The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, April27, 1995 

Envoys to visit refugee camp 
By PAULINE JELINEK Associated Press 
BUTARE, Rwanda Rwanda's top leaders and a 
U.N. envoy will go to the camp where at least 2,000 refugees were killed over the weekend to try to persuade the last 600 people there to go home peace­fully. 
Some holdouts in a school compound in nearby Kibeho camp are said by U.N. officials to be armed Hutu extremists who are preventing others from leaving. 
"I know that some people over the last few days have been macheted inside that com­pound," Lt. Kent Page, the U.N. military spokesman in Kigali, s~id Wednesday. 
The holdouts have ignored numerous army deadlines to leave the compound and have rejected U.N. offers of trans­portation and a military escort. 
The refugees are Hutus, the ethnic majority blamed for last year's slaughter of 500,000 men, women and children. Most victims were Tutsis who were shot, hacked and clubbed to death by Hutu militias. 
The new Tutsi-dominated government in Kigali has been trying for months to get the 200,000 displaced people with­in the country and the 2 million refugees outside it to return home. But many refugees fear reprisals. 
President Pasteur Bizimungu, Prime Minister Faustin Twagi­ramungu and Shaharyar Khan, the U.N. special envoy, will go to the camp Thursday to try to persuade the holdouts to leave, Page said. 
Saturday's massacre came while the army was trying to close Kibeho, home to. about 120,000 refugees. The gov­ernment considered the camp a hotbed of extremist Hutu mili­tias. At least 2,000 people were killed by army gunfire or tram-
Think I.ulds /or early morning studyir;g and meetings! Now open late on most nights of the week! 
Edison Pla:za -1631 Edison Rd. 
(aaa;s /rom the urzebadw.) 
(219)273-6216 Monday-Tuesday 7:00a.m.-10:00p.m. Wednesday-Friday 7:OOa.m.-Midnight Saturday 9:00a.m.-Midnight
L----------------------------------­
pled in a stampede to avoid the shooting. 
On Wednesday, 20 more refugees were found dead in a crowded jail cell just north of Butare where they were await­ing clearance from officials to return home. 
A spokesman for the U.N. re­lief agency, the High Commis­sioner for Refugees, said most were believed to have died of suffocation but a field officer saw machete wounds on some. 
The officer was investigating a strong odor from the building when she found the bodies among 300 people in the cell, said the spokesman, Fernando Del Mundo, speaking from Ki­gali. He added that U.N. human rights monitors have been noti­fied, as well as a government soldier who ordered the other refugees in the cell released. It was not known whether the or­ders were carried out. 
Meanwhile, about 900 return­ing refugees who had been de­tained since Sunday in a bank building in Ngenda, 25 miles south of Kigali, were released into a makeshift transit camp in a field Wednesday. 
.huv !lulu 1111:111 ~M 7-1~ O·'lll 
Silence on 'Dirty War' broken in Argentina 
By IAN PHILLIPS Associated Press 
BUENOS AIRES, Argentina 
For years Argentines were told not to dwell on the hor­rors of the "Dirty War." Now, the official silence has been broken with the frank admis­sion that the army tortured and killed leftists and political dissidents two decades ago. 
The truth has shaken the country to the core. While it may help Argentines confront their past, it may not help President Carlos Menem, who pardoned many of the people responsible and is up for re­election. 
"It's time to assume the re­sponsibility and no longer deny the horrors ·of the past;' army Comm~tnder Gen. Martin Baiza said Tuesday in acknowledging the army's role in the former military govern­ment's brutal campaign. 
"The army did not know how to take on terrorists by legal means" Baiza said on a televised talk show. "(It) employed illegitimate meth­ods, including the suppression of life, to obtain information." 
His surprise statement was applauded Wednesday by hu­man rights groups, which have pushed for a new investigation into the "disappearance" of thousands of people during the Dirty War. 
It came on the heels of two chilling confessions by retired armed forces officers who said political prisoners were thrown alive into the Atlantic from navy and army aircraft in the 1970s. 
The military junta that seized power in 1976 went after left-wing guerrillas who sought to destabilize the coun­try. 
More than 9,000 people, many of them intellectuals and dissidents unconnected with terrorism, were arrested and disappeared, an official report says. 
Human rights advocates claim more than 30,000 Ar­gentines disappeared under military rule. 
Menem, who had repeatedly urged former repressors "not to rub salt in old wounds" by publicly confessing to atroci­ties. praised Baiza's "courage" and said he expect­ed statements soon from the air force and the navy. 
He said he hoped Baiza's revelation would pacify the country and put an end to fur­ther tales of torture by repen­tant officers. 
"This is a relief because on the one hand it will stop public confessions from repentant military men and also society will be able speak more open­ly," Menem said. 
In a newspaper interview published Monday, former Sgt. Victor Ibanez claimed prison­ers were put on "death flights" between 1976 and 1978. He was the first member of the Argentine army to speak out on alleged military murder methods. 
The account echoed a confession in March by a for­mer navy officer, Lt. Cmdr. Adolfo Scilingo. 
ANTOSTAL ROCKS ON~~~ 
ONLY ONE MORE DAY LEFT TO WIN THE CROWN1 
WHO NEEDS CLASSES? COME OUTSIDE AND PLAYI 
THURSDAY MMMGGG SQUEEZE CHEESE 
AIRTOYS AND STUFf(}2-5 STONEHENGE) LASER TAG COMPETITION02-Sl BUNGEERUN BOUNCY BOXING FREE ICE CREAM TYE DYING WI THE ENVIRONMENT CLUB 
BUTT SKETCHES (1-4) 4-COURSE FOOD OBSTACLE COURSH2-4 FIELDHOUSE MALU LOFTAPALOOZA(4-IO FIELDHOUSE MALU --THE LINE-UP 
IS SIMPLY. . .HUGE! --WE VE ALSO GOT GLOW NECKLACES & MORE BEAT THE CLOCK PRIZES(MAYBE .. BREWING CO.?) SNEAK INTO SNEAKERS (MOYIE) --8 & 10:30 MONTGOMERY 
THEATRE SMC NIGHT AFRICAN-IRISH CELEBRATION 7-9:30 WASHINGTON HALL 

Thursday, April27, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 9 
By SHARON COHEN 
Associated Press 
OKLAHOMA CITY 
New details of Timothy McVeigh's activities in the days before the Oklahoma bombing surfaced Wednesday, including the suspect's chilling warning to a friend that "Something big is going to happen." 
.Investigators also were trying to trace McVeigh's movements after the explosion that gutted the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building, a source told The As­sociated Press. 
One theory was that McVeigh dropped off a still-missing col­league before he was arrested for traffic and weapons viola­tions. 
Three witnesses placed McVeigh in front of the federal building moments before the explosion -apparently before the truck carrying the bomb arrived, the source said. 
Revelations of McVeigh's ac­tions in the days before the bombing came in a Wichita, Kan., courtroom as prosecutors sought to take the friend, Terry Nichols, to Oklahoma. 
The judge granted their request but delayed it until May 5 so Nichols could appeal. 
U.S. District Judge Monti Be­lot seemed skeptical that the 33 guns, 60mm anti-tank rocket and blasting devices confiscated from Nichols' home could be explained by his status as a mil­itary surplus dealer. 
"I don't believe most of the citizens of the United States have anti-tank weapons," he said. "I don't know that U.S. citizens have that many guns or pamphlets about Waco or literature about government 
Details of McVeigh's prior activities surface 
.-·"""~··· ..···· 
Under investigation 

Timothy McVeigh 
Terry L. Nichols 
McVeigh, 27, is tied Nichols, 40, is charged to anti-government with conspiracy to build paramilitary groups. Won explosives and Is Army honors in the expected to return to Persian Gulf War. Has been abodyguard for Michigan from Kansas to face the charges. 1Mark Koernke, amilitant talk-radio host; was elue plastic barrels, possibly matching shreds 1 enraged by the governmenfs 1993 attack on found at the bomb scene, were found at his the Branch Davidian compound in Waco, Kansas home. ,jTexas. 
John Doe No.2 
James D. Nichols 
The bushy-haired man in The 41 -year-old brother abaseball cap is being ofTerry Nichols, was sought in connection with charged with conspiracy
D I 
McVeigh. Witnesses say to build explosives and McVeigh and John Doe N"o. 2rented the ordered held without ball. Nichols allegedly .• Ryder truck that was used in the bombing. built bombs In Michigan with McVeiph and his · 
brother Terry. Housed McVeigh at hts Decker. · Mich., farm. 
later that day. 
The next day, McVeigh bor­rowed Nichols' pickup truck and told him, "If I don't come back in a while, go clean up the storage shed." He returned the truck later that day. 
Both McVeigh and Nichols had access to a shed outside Herington that was rented un­der an alias, Rathbun said. Sources have said tire tracks matching the type of truck used in the bombing were found at the shed. 
The bomb exploded the next morning in Oklahoma City. 
Minutes before the blast, and apparently before the arrival of the truck carrying the 4,800­pound bomb, three witnesses saw McVeigh in front of the fed­eral building, a law en­forcement official in Washing­ton told the AP on condition of anonymity. 
The truck was in front of the building "less than 10 or 15 minutes. There was probably a very short-fused timing device on it," the official said. 
The official also said McVeigh's 1977 yellow Mercury Marquis contained a hand-writ­ten notice suggesting car trou­ble, perhaps part of a plot to guarantee his car wouldn't be towed and he could make a quick getaway. 
Investigators have been dis­patched along Interstate 35 from Oklahoma City to Perry ­a 60-mile stretch -to inter­view restaurant, gas station and other proprietors as well as residents to see if anyone saw McVeigh, the still-missing sus­pect dubbed "John Doe 2," or others, the official said. 
McVeigh was stopped by a state trooper for a traffic viola­tion near Perry 75 minutes af­ter the bombing. 
He was arrested on a weapons charge and was sitting in the county jail for two days before authorities realized the bombing suspect was under their noses. 
A crumpled business card, apparently left by McVeigh, was found in the police vehicle that took him to the station in Perry. "It had a note on it to pick up more explosives, like a re­minder note," a federal law enforcement official said, de­manding anonymity. 
The source also said McVeigh has refused to talk. "He's very stoic and has classified himself as a prisoner of war," the offi­cial said. 
McVeigh was being held in a federal prison in El Reno, Okla., and was to appear at a hearing Thursday on a request to move his case out of Oklahoma City. 
On Wednesday, a federal magistrate rejected motions by McVeigh's attorneys to with­draw from the case and to grant a change of venue. 
U.S. Magistrate Ronald Howland called the request premature since the court has yet to question potential grand jurors to determine if they can consider the case impartially. 
McVeigh and Terry Nichols were Army buddies at Fort Ri­ley, Kan., near Junction City. Nichols' brother, James, is also being held as a witness in Michigan; McVeigh listed James Nichols as his next of kin when he was arrested. 
The Nichols brothers were charged Tuesday in Michigan with conspiring with McVeigh to manufacture explosives. McVeigh was not charged and the charges did not relate to the Oklahoma bombing . 
warfare." 
He said' those items but­tressed the government's re­quest that Nichols be moved to Oklahoma City. 
"There is substantial evi­dence that Mr. Nichols is an as­sociate with Mr. McVeigh in the extent of connections with the Oklahoma bombing," Belot said. 
As the investigation ad­vanced, the city and the nation paused to observe a moment of silence at 9:02 a.m. -the pre­cise moment of the blast one week ago. Bells rang, tears flowed and heads bowed as searchers stood amid the ruins of the collapsed federal build­ing. 
The death toll stood at 98. 
In court, U.S. Attorney Randy Rathbun said neighbors of Nichols in Herington, Kan., about 270 miles north of Okla­homa City, reported that 
APfiNm. J. Castello 
Nichols spent April 12-14 with McVeigh and several unidenti­fied men. One of the men re­sembled sketches of John Doe 2, who is the subject of a na­tionwide search, Rathbun said. 
According to Rathbun, McVeigh called Nichols from Oklahoma City on April 16 and asked him to pick him up. 
Rathbun, quoting what Nichols told the FBI after he was taken in, gave this account of what happened next: 
Nichols picked McVeigh up, and as the two men drove north, McVeigh told Nichols: "Something big is going to hap­pen." Nichols responded: "Are you going to rob a bank?" and McVeigh repeated, "Something big is going to happen." 
The men reached Junction City, Kan., early in the morning of April 17. The FBI says the Ryder truck used in the bomb­ing was rented in Junction City 
.t!'·:''lt\,
Mso('(;_
,.A.(Habitat for Hurnanit¥ s,~· ~· 
-0
< :::1
II I International 
Community ervlce 
Alu1nni • Students • Faculty • Sta"f"f 
Last chance to apply for the Habitat for Humanity/jimmy Carter Work Project '95 
Pick up forms in the Alumni Association Room 201 Main Building and return by 
5:00 p.m., Monday, May 1st 
The 1995 jCWP will be held the week of june 18-24, 1995 in Los Angeles, California. jimmy and Rosalynn Carter will participate. Twenty wood frame houses will be constructed in the Watts/Willowbrook area of South Central LA. Workers will be needed from Monday morning to Friday evening. Sunday will be an orientation day with speeches from President Carter, etc. The last day, Saturday, will be a Habitation service -the Christening of the houses. 
An anonymous Notre Dame family is underwriting the construction costs, but we need 14 alumni to work side by side with 6 current students and the recipient family to make this dream a reality. 
There will be a registration fee for all volunteers ($200). The fee will cover costs of food, lodging, orientation materials, local transportation to and from Los Angeles and any per­sonal incidental expenses. The registration cost for local volunteers who do not require accommodation is $40 daily, and financial aid is available. 
Accommodations for those assigned to the Watts/Willowbrook site will be in dorm rooms 
at the University of Southern California (6/18 p.m. to 6/24 a.m.) 
Shuttle service from USC to the work site will be provided. 
~-----------·--------------------------------~----~ 
page 10 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, April 27, 1995 
Elusive bomber taunts victim of past attack 
By RJCHARD COLE 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO 
The Unabomber taunted one of his injured victims in a letter released Wednesday, calling him a "techno-nerd" who should have been smart enough not to open a mysterious pack­age that blew up. 
The letter's text to Yale Uni­versity computer scientist David Gelernter was distributed by the FBI after another letter from the elusive bomber was published by The New York Times. 
"People with advanced de­grees aren't as smart as they think they are," the Gelernter letter said. 
"If you'd had any brains you would have realized that there are a lot of people out there who resent bitterly the way techno-nerds like you are changing the world and you 


._________________________________________ 
0 May 25, 1978: A bomb at Northwestern University, Evanston, Ill., injures a security guard. 
f) May 9,1979: A bomb injures one person at Northwestern's Technological Institute. 
11 Nov.15, 1979: Twelve people suffered smoke inhalation when bomb 
exploded in plane's cargo hold during American Airlines flight, forcing an 
emergency landing at Dulles International Airport near Washington. 
EJ June 1 0, 1980: United Airlines president injured at home in Chicago area. 
Iii Oct. 8, 1981: Bomb is placed in a business classroom at University of Utah in Salt Lake City. No one injured. 
0 May 5, 1982: One person injured at Vanderbilt University in Nashville; package addressed to a professor. 
fJ July 2, 1982: Professor of electrical engineering and computer science injured in faculty lounge at University of California at Berkeley. 
Ill May 15, 1985: One person injured by bomb found in computer room at University of California at Berkeley. 
llJ June 13, 1985: Police disarm bomb mailed to the Boeing Co. in Auburn, Wash. 
mNov. 15, 1985: Secretary injured by package mailed to professor at University of Michigan at Ann Arbor. 
8J Dec.11, 1985: Man killed by bomb found near computer rental store in Sacramento, Calif. 
mFeb. 20, 1987: Man injured by bomb left behind computer store in Salt Lake City. 
IE June 22, 1993: Geneticist at University of California at San Francisco injured by bomb sent to his home. 
Ill June 24, 1993: Yale University computer scientist injured in office. 
mJ Dec. 10,1994: Advertising executive killed by bomb sent to his North Caldwell, N.J., home. 
mApril25, 1995: limber industry executive killed by bomb sent to his office at the California Forestry Association in Sacramento, California. 
AP 
DEAR HOUSE, 
<uDD6\~~w ~l]~IJ [B Q~IJGD ®6\W ~~~Ln1 
[B@')J/{1 
LOVE MOM, DAD, SMITTY, SPIKE &SPOT 
UNUSUAL SUMMER JOB ON CAMPUS 
WNDU needs a vacation relief technician for summer employ­ment from May through September to install, operate, maintain, and repair radio, television, cable, and satellite equipment. This is 
.ideal for a technically-minded science/ engineer student with a knowledge of electricity and electronics. The position is for up to 40 hours per week, includes shiftwork, and requires a valid dri­ver's license and transportation. Please apply at the WNDU Studios by May 5th. 
wouldn't have been dumb enough to open an unexpected package from an unknown source." 
Gelernter was badly injured when a mail bomb exploded in his office on June 24, 1993. 
He needed extensive surgery on his right hand and was wounded on his abdomen, chest and face. 
The letter was one of four mailed April 20, the same day as the Unabomber's latest package, which killed a timber lobbyist Monday in Sacramento. 
Jim Freeman, the FBI chief in San Francisco, told reporters Tuesday that only three letters were mailed. He said Wednes­day it was four and the two oth­ers were received by people unrelated to the case. He re­fused to disclose the contents or any details of the other two let­ters. 
Both letters were signed "FC," which the bomber de­scribed as a group of anar­chists. 
He used the same signature last time he communicated by letter, also to the Times, in 1993. 
The bomber, believed to be a white male loner in his 40s rather than a member of a group, taunted the FBI in his latest letter to the newspaper and offered to stop the bomb­ings if the Times or other major media print a "manuscript" de­tailing "our" beliefs that society should be broken down into "very small, completely au­tonomous units." 
He also demanded that "we" be given the opportunity to re­spond to critics in print or ex­pand on views presented in the manuscript. 
The bomber makes no de­mands in the letter to Gelern­ter. That letter, which used FBI headquarters in Washington as its return address, attacks Gel­ernter's 1991 book, "Mirror Worlds," for saying the ad­vance of computerization is "inevitable" and "any college person" can learn to compete in a computer-driven world. 
"Apparently, people without a college degree don't count," the bomber wrote. "In any case, being informed about computers won't enable anyone to prevent invasion of privacy (through computers), genetic engineering (to which comput­ers make an important contri­bution), environmental degra­dation through excessive eco­nomic growth (computers make an important contribution to economic growth) and so forth." 
In the letter to the Times, the bomber condemned' int!ll!:trlftl society, growth, technicians and "manipulating people's at­titudes." 
The bomber might have been motivated to write letters out of jealousy of the attention re­ceived by the Oklahoma City truck bomb explosion, said criminologist Michael Rustigan of San Francisco University. 
"He's a guy falling down," Rustigan said. "Quite possibly he was hyped up in terms of Oklahoma City, and saying: 'I can do that, too. And I can get away with it."' 
In 16 bombings since 1978, three people have been killed and 23 injured in attacks at­tributed to the Unabomber, named for his early targets of university and airline officials. 
All four of the recent letters were mailed from the Oakland area the day after the federal building was bombed in Okla­homa City, Freeman said. 
By breaking his long silence and sending out the letters, the bomber sharply increases the odds he will be captured since he has escaped detection by be­ing careful, investigators said. 
"He's meticulous to the point of compulsion -he may even stalk his victims," said Ed Gleba of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms. 
Until the latest letters, his tar­gets had appeared almost ran­dom, making determination of a motive virtually impossible. 
"He may even leave a finger­print," Gleba said of the letters. A San Francisco-based task force investigating the bomber is taking advantage of new technology that includes testing for DNA in any saliva traces on envelopes or stamps. 
Along with the compulsion to explain himself. there were in­dications in Monday's bombing that the Unabomber has be­come sloppier. 
The bomb that killed Califor­nia Forestry Association presi­dent Gilbert Murray was ad­dressed to William Dennison, who left the job a year ago. Also, the deadly package was addressed to an old name for the group, the Timber Associa­tion of California. 
Lou Bertram, a retired FBI agent who served on the Un­abom task force, said it appears the bomber is finally unravel­ing. 
"I would say the pressure is building up," Bertram said. "What he's got on his soul is more than the average person could live with." 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
-I I 
Session I -May 18 to June 23 Session II -June 26 to August 3 
There are some good reasons to take classes at Holy Cross College this summer. Perhaps you could benefit from one or both of our summer sessions, each offering a wide variety of quality general education courses. Or maybe our affordable summer tuition rate of $140 per credit hour sounds appealing. 
Whatever the reason, Holy Cross College summer sessions can offer you the opportunity to use your time more productively during the upcoming summer break. You can take advantage of our exceptionally small classes, dedicated and caring faculty and our convenient location just to the west of the University of Notre Dame campus. And, of course, credit earned is transferrable. 
So why not write or call today for more information about Holy Cross College? Applications for Summer Sessions I and II, as well as for the 1995 Fall Semester, are now being accepted. 
* HOLY CROSS COLLEGE 
Office of Admissions P.O.Box 308 • Notre Dame, IN 46556-0308 
(219) 233-6813, ext. 22 • Fax (219) 233-7427 
© 1995 
--~----­
Thursday, April27, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 11 
Supreme Court strikes school zone gun law 
By LAURIE ASSEO 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
trend of deference to congres­sional power to regulate inter­state commerce. 
Congress stole power re­
nomic enterprise, however broadly one might define those terms," Rehnquist wrote. 
Justice Anthony M. Kennedy 
as well as social, well-being of Americans." Sen. Herb Kohl, D-Wis., who sponsored the school gun law, 
deliver to someone else for $40 to use in what Lopez described as a "gang war." 
In ruling that Lopez's convic­
The Supreme Court struck down a federal law banning gun possession within 1,000 feet of schools Wednesday, say­ing the states -not Congress -have the authority to enact such criminal laws. 
The 5-4 decision throwing out the 1990 Gun-Free School Zones Act stood in sharp con­trast to a longstanding court served to the states when it en­acted the law, Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist wrote as the court refused to reinstate a former Texas high school stu­dent's conviction for taking a gun to school. 
The school gun law "is a criminal statute that by its terms has nothing to do with 'commerce' or any sort of eco­noted in a concurring opinion that most states already outlaw gun possession on or near school grounds. 
But Justice Stephen G. Breyer wrote in dissent that the ruling creates a legal uncertainty that "will restrict Congress' ability to enact criminal laws aimed at criminal behavior that ... seri­ously threatens the economic, 

Now that you're going to graduate school, how do you plan to pay for it? 
Ask us. 
For Graduate Students 
(pursuing all types ofadvanced degrees such as /nw, engineering, nursing, etc.) The Chi­Graduate Loan Program offers Federal Stafford Loans and our exclusive Grad­Assist Loan. 
And, all of the Citibank Grad­
uate Loan Programs offer: you study or where you cur­
• easy repayment,
rently bank, you can count .low interest rates,
on Citibank, the nation's number one originator of • no application fees, student loans, to help finance 
• an easy application process, your education. 
• fast approvals, 
For Medical Students 
• and one toll-free number 
(pursuing allopathic and 
to call for answers to all 
osteopathic medicine) The 
your questions.
CitiMedical Loan Program For more information
offers Federal Stafford and an application for a
Loans and our exclusive Citibank Graduate Loan,
Medica!Assist Loan. 
call 1-800-692-8200,
For MBA Students 
and ask for Operator 256.
The CitiMBA Loan Program offers Federal Stafford Loans and our exclusive MBAAssist Loan. 
CITIBAN<CJ 
YeS! I want more information Name of Student ___---~ -~ _ -~ __ 
and an application for the following Address------­
I I 
Citibank Graduate Loans: 
City·--------~----­
I 0 All Federal Stafford Loans Zip,_____
State'---------­
0 Cltibank MedlcaiAssist Loan
I 
Telephone:___________
(for students ofallopathic and 
ostcopat!Jir rrlt'liicincJ 
Studen!"s Social Security#·-------------­
I 
0 Cltibank MBAAssist Loan 
(far IJUsi11ess stwicllfs) 
I 
Student is currently in 0 College 0 Graduate School 0 Citibank GradAssist Loan 
Year of Graduation ____ Field of Study-------­
(for gradtwtc studettfs) 
I 
Name of College/Graduate School -----------­
Mailtllis coupon to: Are you a previous student loan borrower? 0 Yes 0 No 
Citibank Student LoansI P.O. Box 22948 Or for faster service, Rochester, NY 14692-2948 call 1-800-692-8200,I 
andasktor c~•nraAN(~ l:~:J 

Operator 256. I I;JJ11 ..,
Citillank (Nrw Ynrk Stale) 
255
I 
L 
said, ''I'm astonished that the Supreme Court has said that Congress cannot protect our children from guns." He said the ruling "ignores children's safety for the sake of legal nit­picking." 
Sixty-five students and six school employees were shot and killed at U.S. schools dur­ing the five years before the law was enacted, according to the Center to Prevent Handgun Violence. 
The court rejected the Clinton administration's argument that gun possession near schools may result in violent crime, which in turn can harm the na­tional economy. 
Under that reasoning, Rehn­quist wrote, "Congress could regulate any activity that it found was related to the eco­nomic productivity of individual citizens: family law ... for ex­ample." 
If Congress could regulate ac­tivities that harm the educa­tional environment, it also could directly regulate schools -perhaps even by mandating a federal school curriculum, the chief justice added. 
The government had asked the court to reinstate Alfonso Lopez Jr.'s conviction for taking a handgun and five bullets to school in San Antonio in 1992. He said he was given the gun to tion could not stand, the high court said he "was a local stu­dent at a local school; there is no indication that he had re­cently moved in interstate com­merce." 
Congress can enact laws un­der its power to regulate inter­state commerce only to police activity that substantially affects such commerce, Rehnquist said. The ruling seeks to preserve a distinction "between what is truly national and what is truly local," he said. 
Bernard James, a lawyer for the National School Safety Cen­ter, called the ruling a "wake­up call" reminding Congress there is a constitutional limit on its power to regulate com­merce. 
Richard Samp of the conser­vative Washington Legal Foun­dation said the decision could spark challenges to other fed­eral criminal laws and envi­ronmental laws that regulate individual conduct, such as a private citizen polluting a wet­land. 
Joining Rehnquist's opinion along with Kennedy were Jus­tices Sandra Day O'Connor, An­tonio Scalia and Clarence Thomas. Dissenting along with Breyer were Justices John Paul Stevens, David H. Souter and Ruth Bader Ginsburg. 
~~asyliv~tGn 
Super Saver Prices on Roses B•lloon Bouquets It Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Clft Baskets 
Clocktower Square 51400 31 North 
(219)277-1291
South Bend, IN 46637 

We'll take 20% off when you leave campus with a Hertz Penske truck rental! We've got everything you need to make moving easy -a modern, clean fleet ... free unlimited mileage on one way moves ... convenient coast-to-coast locations ... a free moving guide ... and all the accessories to get the job done. For reservations, call the location below, or check the Yellow Pages for the Hertz Penske location nearest you. 
South Bend (North): 277·0144 South Bend (South): 291·1414 
Leaving campus? 
Rent a truck from Hertz Penslce and get a 20% dhJcount on your one way truclr rental. 
Her~z
200/o 
"PENSKE Truck Rllllbll 

DISCOUNT DISCOUNT 
Affordable, new, cleltn trvU. et oonvwalent rwntlll looatlone 
• 
1 0' -24' trucks available • Automatic transmission and 

• 
Free unlimited mileage air conditioning on one way rentals • 24-hour emergency road service 


Ellec-Apo111, 1•N Goocllloru July 11,1... 
A "one way rental" means yodt Hirtz Pw.ake truck 11 rwni.O 6n or.e city 8nd r•tumed to another 
L _____.::...Pw\8..!:1:.:....:.::..Pe:;;.•~~='!.. _____.J 

VIEWPOINT 
page 12 Thursday, April27, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
-1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucas Managing Editor Business Manager Suzanne Fry Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager .......................Ryan Malayter Sporu Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Produaion Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor .................................. Rob Finch Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Saint Mary's Editor ...............•.... Patti Carson Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of rhe administra­tion of either institution. The news is repotted as accurately and objectivdy as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and 1nside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those .;fThe Obse..;,~r. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 

• IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD 
Reflection on a week of 'significant thin 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• 000NESBURY 
8./J., ARE YOU !ilJR.e WHOA ... YOU KNCJIU 
fT'5 THe 6U?F PJAR. NOtU THAT Yat 
9/NPROM/3.?! II/HAT M&NTION IT. .. 
A/?E YOUR. ......__ I 
PJHAT f(j 17;5YMP'/lYI1S 7 
ZONKo/ 
--........... 
• Quon: Of THE DAY 
"The essence of lying is in deception, not in words." 
-John Ruskin 
It was my full intention to talk about Part 2: Affirmative Action, but I must digress. It's been a long seven days and I think I've seen more significant things in the past week than I have all semes" ter. It's actually quite surprising to me. Seven days. I guess this is the kind of profound intellectual thing that is sup­posed to happen in college, y'know stuff that people write books about. 
I refuse to go into any deep philosophi­cal-psychological analysis over any of this, as that tends to bore me to death, but I will offer it up for your own enjoy­ment or analysis, and let you decide what you will make of it. 
Cristiane Likely 
SIGNIFICANT THING #1: 
Oklahoma City Bombing. I sometimes wonder what our world is coming to, and I get sad. And, I oftentimes wonder what makes people do some of the hor­rendous things that they do. I don't care if you hate the government. I don't care if you agree with everything anybody does, it does not give you the right to blow up buildings and kill innocent peo­ple. 
I am not particularly 100 percent happy with Notre Dame, but I'm not go­ing to go blow up the dome because I don't agree with something they do. It has to do with what kind of morals peo­ple have. Somewhere along the line, while we were too busy making money and building rockets, the value of a human life dropped to where it's almost insignificant. That's pretty damn pathetic. 
SIGNIFICANT THING #2: 
I was walking from Cushing to the sometime zoo that is North Dining Hall, and I decided to take a short cut through Stepan Chemistry. Now, as I am walking up the little driveway, I notice a light brown minivan parked to the curb. I look in the minivan and see two little kids, one about a year or so old and the other about two or three, and they are both crying their eyes out. 
If you've ever been lost in a depart­ment store as a small child or have seen a child that is lost, then you can under­stand the pure fear that these kids felt. They looked terrified; they had the kind of look a kid has when they think they'll never see their mommy or daddy again. I had to stop to see if they were all right. Apparently, their pathetic excuse for a parent left them in the van to perhaps run some ill comparative errand and decided to leave the kids in the van for a few minutes or so. That's messed up. 
Now, I don't have kids, but I have a ton of nieces and nephews, and I'll be dead before I leave small children like that anywhere. I truly don't understand how someone can do that to a child. It only takes a few minutes for something awful to happen, and that is a chance no parent should be willing to take. 
I don't know who the parents are, and I probably never will, but you had better have a little more love for your children, because one day, when you decide that leaving them is more efficient or time saving than taking them with you, they'll be gone. 
SIGNIFICANT THING #3: 
Digable Planets. Oh All-Knowing Security People. The next time the pow­ers that be decide that it isn't appropri­ate for a rap group to come on campus, come up with a better excuse than secu­rity risks. That's as lame as Old Yeller with a wooden leg. 
Us non-alternative people need some­thing to go to as well. Hello. Anyone listening? I've been here almost three years, and I have yet to see any major concert here at Notre Dame that fits out­side a certain genre of artists and groups. C'mon now, no one is asking for 
, 
Planets is as much of a security risk as I am, well ... y'know what I mean. SIGNIFICANT THING #4: 
Is it not April? Is it not Spring? Then why is it cold, Mother Nature can be so mean. Today it'll be 70, tomorrow maybe snow. Can I have a vote for con­sistency. Does anybody know? As I go from t-shirts to raincoats and, some days, back to that again. I ask Mother Nature for a break please, while we serve our time here in South Bend. 
SIGNIFICANT THING #5: 
Bookstore Basketball. I love it. A chance to see all the "I wanna be like Mikes" out there. I love especially to see the top ranked teams pummel the teams that have no skills, have no talent, and have no good reason to be out there other than to have a cool name (which some don't have regardless). 
As luck would have it, most of the peo­ple I know are ranked teams that are going for gold, so disappointment for the most part has been minimal, if not nonexistence. But. I must report a significant decrease of the in-your-face­go-back-and-cry-to-your-mama-never­should-have-left-the-dorm dunks of past years. I am hopeful though, as the weather (hopefully) gets better and the teams dwindle down. 
SIGNIFICANT THING #6: 
they are over for me. It's ridiculous and I hate it. I was lucky enough to get the same single I have this year, but going through the whole room pick fiasco is a general waste of time. I think it might be time for Notre Dame to evaluate the way they handle room picks. I've seen too many people fight and curse each other over rooms. Like it matters. 
It's really pathetic to see two soon-to­be sophomores, who have picks 60 and 61 in that order, fight over the two iden­tical rooms on the same floor in the same section right next door to each other. Trust me, it doesn't matter. Then of course, there's always that per­son who has like r_oom pick 457. whose hoping for one of eighteen singles. That, my friends, is hope, blind hope, but hope nevertheless. 
SIGNIFiCANT THING #7: 
Semester Finals. God help us all. We need it ... .I need it. Can we say "Utter Panic"? 
Oh well, just another week at Notre Dame. I have to keep reminding myself...just one more year...just one more year ... 
Cristiane J. Likely is a junior computer science major. She lives in Pasquerilla West and can be reached over e-mail at: clikely@artin. helios.nd. edu 
.....
~ 
VIEWPOINT
Thursday, April27, 1995 page 13 
• SOCIETY WHIRL 
When only an ego can find sense in this world 
WILL THE REAL JOSH OZERSKY 
PLEASE STAND UP? 
A number of options presented them­selves to me as I sat down to right this, my last column of the semester. First, of course, was the ghoulish benediction graduates customarily endure, perhaps 
Josh Ozersky 

embroidered with sinister, conspiratori­al asides. Then another thought struck me -has anyone noticed the resem­blance between Oklahoma bombing suspect John Doe #2 and NO quarter­back sensation Ron Powlus? I consid­ered writing a facetious column about this topic, replete with cheesy one-liners -e.g. "I heard Powlus was a long­range bomber -but this is ridiculous!" But that too seemed weak. Attenuated, I mean to say. Played out. 
Then I thought of coming clean. All tl'lese people seemed shocked by last week's eolumn. "Ozersky seems almost human," I hear them say. "I had reck­oned him as having, at best, an ant­sized portion of the divine element." 
Well, maybe. What could be more appropriate, at year's end, than to admit that, as many people suspect, I am little more than a computer-generated pro­gram authored by the OUC, and down­loaded to the Observer from a restrict­ed-access AFS account. "Josh Ozersky" does not exist at all, according to this hypothesis. 
Well, there's something to be said for this view. I personally think it is exag­gerated, but it's not entirely off the mark. Or there is the model of Ozersky the consensus historian, a smug figure in bowtie and spectacles apologizing for the status quo. A fair estimate, I would say. Not too off the mark. A third option, that I am human, but just barely, by virtue of being a self-important boor, has its merits too. For my part, I'm happy to be noticed at all. This sum­mer, I'll just be another wiseguy flirting with the secretaries at my temp assign­ments, and loitering gloomily around the water cooler while the boss isn't looking. 
JUST PAY YOUR TAXES LIKE THE 
REST OF US, YOU CREEPS! 
All these right-wing nuts are begin­ning to bum me out. Everyone expect­ed, reasonably enough, that the Oklahoma explosion would turn out to be set off by Arabs of some sort. (Now all the intellectuals are chiding the nar­row-minded louts who assumed Moslem authorship of the bomb. No, I can't imagine why people would think the bomb was set by Arabs. What frauds! What hypocrites!} 
Of course, it has turned out now that the bomb was set off by right-wing mili­tant types. I hope everybody sees now how stupid and antisocial a bunch the 
'The fact is, government-
hating nuts who call the President a dirty mutt with scabs on his ears are as far from "conservative" as you can get. They have no use for any traditions or institutions, except insofar as they can use them as props for a violent and selfish anarchy.' 
far right really is. I say "the right." The fact is, government-hating nuts who call the President a dirty mutt with scabs on his ears are as far from "conservative" as you can get. They have no use for any traditions or institutions, except insofar as they can use them as props for a violent and selfish anarchy. They don't have much use for the golden mean. The documents they supposedly cherish, the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence, are liberal government's empowering bases, and have been recognized as such since George Washington jumped on the Whiskey Rebellion with both feet. 
And we'll do the same to these terror­ists this very day! BENEDICTUS 
I realize that some of you who read this will not be returning to South Bend after this semester. Some of you may be in jail, and others will be assuming your rightful place in the gene pool, pro­ducing well-formed, high-performance infants at a brisk pace. I wish you the best. If you could send me some money some time, or set me up with your sis­ter, that would be good too. But I will settle for your saying hello sometime if you see me around, or thinking occa­sionally, in your happy years ahead, of whatever fleeting moments of distrac­tion or pleasure I might have given you. Good luck. 
Josh Ozersky is a graduate student in history. He can be reached over e-mail at: joshua.a. ozersky.l@nd. edu 
• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Affirmative action omits some groups 

Dear Editor: 
In reading Cristiane Likely's piece titled "Affirmative Action equalizes opportunity for all," (April 19) I became dismayed with the profound amount of ignorance surrounding the af­firmative action debate. 
First, Likely characterizes "Affirmative Action" as if it were some designed govern­ment program. Contrary to popular belief, the term "affir­mative aetion" is not a specific government program, but a term which evolved from refer­ences to President Lyndon .Johnson who said that busi­nesses ought to take affirmative steps to rectify past discrimina­tion in the hiring and promo­tion of women and minorities. Numerous equalization and reetification programs arose from the Congress and private industry during the 1960s and 70s; however, there has never been a program called "Affirmative Action" as Likely describes. 
Secondly, Likely asserts cor­reetly that "You can't expect an inner-city school kid to have the same educational background as an upper/middle class kid who went to a country club high school." In making this statement, Likely makes the one inherent mistake made by most affirmative action propo­nents. She assumes that pover­ty and disadvantage are race issues. Again, contrary to pop­ular belief, there are more whites currently receiving wel­fare in the United States than all minority groups combined. It is true that on a percentage basis, more minorities are poor than whites, but can a propo­nent of affirmative action actu­ally believe that an upper-mid­dle class minority is more dis­advantaged than a white child who lives in a rural trailer park on welfare merely because of the color of skin. Yet with cur­rent affirmative action pro­grams, the minority receives preferential treatment in school admissions and employment opportunities while the white person suffers in effect, dis­crimination. 
Studies suggest that the pri­mary beneficiaries of affirma­tive action programs are up­per/middle class minorities, not the disadvantaged people the programs were designed to aid. The only way to support cur­rent affirmative action pro­grams is to say that minorities and women just can't compete on their own two feet with white males. With the excep­
people, myself included, are not prepared to make such a Judi­crous statement. As Stephen Carter a black professor at Yale writes: 
"Supporters of preferences (affirmative action) cite a whole catalogue of explanations for the inability of people of color to get along without them: institutional racism, inferior education, overt prejudice, the lingering effects of slavery and oppression, cultural bias in the criteria for admission and em­ployment. All of these argu­ments are most sincerely pressed, and some of them are true. But, they all entail the as­sumption that people of color cannot at present compete on the same playing field with peo­ple who are white. I don't be­lieve this for an instant." 
Affirmative action programs meritoriously attempt to rectify disadvantage; however. one cannot deny that disadvantage cuts across racial and gender lines. As this is the case, affir­mative action programs ought not to be based on race and gender, but on class and in­come. If our policies truly tar­get disadvantage, then they should go to help those who are disadvantaged regardless of race, religion, origin, or sex. 
Thirdly, as usual with propo­nents of affirmative action, 
Likely attacks Newt Gingrich and the Republican Congress, painting them as Nazi hate mongers who want to take away your child's free lunch and Sesame Street in her errant discussion about the School Lunch Program and the Public Broadcasting Service. Chalk up another victim to the liberal media hype. I'm not really sure what school lunch and PBS have to do with affirmative ac­tion, but I can at least clear up the misrepresentation of the facts presented by Likely. 
Under the Republican pro­posal, the School Lunch Pro­gram for next year will actually receive increased funding. More money does not translate into Newt grabbing square piz­zas and pears from poor kids mouths. True, spending on the School Lunch Program will be less next year than it had been projected to be, but it would still be more than is spent on the program this year. As far as PBS goes, Likely asserts that we ought not support the Republican initiatives because not all people who wanted to donate to PBS could, saying, "But what about all the families that don't have the money to donate?" Hello, not all families today have enough money to donate to PBS, yet it still exists. 
Last time I checked, PBS wasn't a premium channel. Poor fami­lies would not lose PBS access merely because Republicans want to cut some of the aid to the channel. Middle and upper income people enjoy PBS as well, and I doubt if the channel would fold because of the cut­backs. Those who can pay will pick up the tab when they real­ize that Big Bird may stop baby-sitting their screaming kid for an hour everyday. Again, I'm not really sure of the perti­nence of these statements by Likely with reference to affir­mative action, but let the truth be told. 
In conclusion, there can be no doubt that racism and discrimi­nation still exist in today's soci­ety. Likely correctly states that "there isn't equal opportunity for every American, "but she and other supporters of affirmative action must realize that this discrimination takes the shape of class discrimina­tion as much as sexual and racial discrimination. Disadvantage cuts across racial and gender lines. Affirmative action ought to be taken to rec­tify these disadvantages on an individual basis, regardless of an individual's inherent group characteristics. Likely correctly argues that money equals 
power and that affirmative action programs are designed to take the money aspect out of the success equation em­powering those who lack the resources to succeed. But do only minorities and women lack the resources to succeed? The answer is undeniably no. Af­firmative action programs should be utilized to help the white child on welfare as much as the minority child on wel­fare. People ought not be judged on the color of their skin or which bathroom they use as current affirmative action pro­grams force universities and employers to do, but on whether or not they can per­form the task demanded. If a person needs assistance to en­ter the workforce because of economic disadvantage, the person ought to receive the aid regardless u~ race, religion, na­tional origin, or sex in the form of educational opportunities, job training, or if need be, income-based affirmative action. Only when this country stops looking at race and sex as detrimental factors in some­one's repertoire, can our nation pass beyond the racial issues which continue to hold it back. 
ERIC SCHULTENOVER 
Junior Graa Hall 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
ACCENT
page 14 Thursday, April 27, 1995 
• Son ScALE SooA 
Panther connects to the groove 
By ROB ADAMS 
Music Editor 
Panther 
Soundtrack 
out of five
***~ 
T
he popularity of soundtracks sup­porting predominantly African­American films, begun about three years ago, has spawned a plethora of acts to donate timely and outstanding songs to today's collections. As demon­strated by such albums as Boomerang, Above the Rim and Murder Was the Case,the soundtrack is able to identify with the music of the times and correct­ly represent the changing styles. 
Panther, the soundtrack from the Van Peebles father-son tandem's film of the same name, is another reflection of today. The soundtrack fuses an eclectic mix of revamped and static yet inspired covers, as well as a number of new songs from a large number of im­pressive names. 
The opening track on the album, "Freedom (Theme from Panther)" boasts names such as Vanessa Williams, TLC, Mary J. Blige, N'Dea Davenport, Da Brat, Salt-n-Pepa to name a few. The line-up on this track is one of the deepest of all time. The sound is crisp and never gets crowded. Although it has a bit of an advantage over other songs, "Freedom (Theme from Panther)" is undoubtedly one of the best songs of the year. A jazzy, hip­hop beat flows in the background among a high-pitched synthesizer sec­tion and a bouncy, thick bassline. The gospel-style vocals are the type to give soda can. 
Monica and Usher turn in a gorgeous ballad with "Let's Straighten it Out," straying from the quiet storm norm of cliched R&B ballads. The Last Poets, one of hip-hop music's pioneers, turn in a socially-aware as well as tribal track with "Don't Give Me No Broccoli and Call it Greens." Supposedly a new 
goo s e album bumps, f r o m and the them is in raps con­t h e tain fresh works. lyrics and a juxta­Nothing position b u t of styles sludge­serving to f u n k comple­bumps· ment the out of the f l u i d track, rhythm. " T h e 
Points" 

Although "Freedom (Theme from Panther)" is by far the best track on Panther, the rest of the album is not to be missed. Bobby Brown, who has a part in the film, comes back with his first jam in a while, "Slick Partner." He sports a more laid-back sound with plenty of silky smooth background vocals. Brown has moved beyond the lackluster sound of his long-awaited 1992 release, Bobby, which caused about as much noise as the opening of a which features a number of talented rappers including Notorious B.I.G. and Redman. This a jam just for making a mad face and groovin'. 
A Funkadelic track with special guest George Clinton requires virtually no description-it's pure mothership. Clinton moves beyond just doin' it in your earhole and injects the hyper­smoothboominsound directly into the brain. Aaron Hall returns from dog­breeding to collect some props back from R. Kelly with, "Stand (You Got To)," an intense and moving ballad. 
Hall's track is not a remake of the Sly and the Family Stone classic, but Tony Toni Tone does attempt to cover the great Sly. Their version of "Stand" dis­appoints because of its lack of refresh­ing new life. It does not sound terrible by any means, but TTT shied away from anything bold. Another rather bland cover is "Natural Woman" by Female. Although the vocals are sharp, you might as well just listen to the original. 
One cover that does not disappoint, however, is Da Lench Mob's version of War's "The World is a Ghetto." True to their form, the cut begins with a clip of a speech. When the beat kicks in, it's time to just let your head bob and check the lyrics. 
In spite of a few shortcomings, Panther is a wondrous soundtrack. From the beauty and groove of the opening track to the dramatic ending featuring the Boys Choir of Harlem hooking up with Brian McKnight for the "Star-Spangled Banner," there should be something for everyone. The strength of this soundtrack lies not nec­essarily in all the good sounds, but rather in the connection between the artists and the message expressed in working towards a common goal. 
Rob Adams' music reviews appear every Thursday in Accent. 
rip through the morass that is Slash's Snakepit 
eaves one with some burning questions. For 
xample, does Geffen Records really think the Guns 'n' .Roses guitarist and his minions are artists? Who lied to Eric Dover and told him he could sing? How the hell did these guys come to believe they had fourteen songs worth putting on an album? Most im­portantly, who would listen to this twice? 
There was once a time when GNR was just a band, 
Slash's Snakepit
It's Five O'Clock Somewhere 
Geffen Records 
no stars out of five 
and a good one at that. Now, after trying to imitate the Rolling Stones in every way except writing decent songs, they have become a slithering self-parody. The hubris that allowed them to release a double album has carried into Slash's "solo" career, the difference being that Use Your Illusion has a few songs worth lis­tening to. 
It's Five O'Clock Somewhere is as subtle as a chain saw, but lacking the social graces. To say that this album is a failure is incorrect; the ambitions of the artists were evidently met. Slash's artistic vision­such as it is-is so horribly nihilistic and just down­right unpleasant that you have to shower after listen­ing to it. 
Nowhere is that nihilism better expressed than on "Doin' Fine." The tale is of a wild party that just won't end, and the bridge treats us to giggling, squealing bimbos. If you listen to the album closely enough, should the first three songs not point you otherwise, you learn that that's how women are in the Snakepit; brainless sex toys who aren't even really good at that. The men are no prizes either; as the saying goes, they drink, get drunk, and then in a twist, shoot heroin. It's a story that can be told with at least some grace, but grace is avoided at all cost here. 
Lyrics notwithstanding, It's Five O'Clock Somewhere is a wash musically as well. There isn't a song on the album that is worth listening to straight through. "Beggars and Hangers-On" actually opens with a stel­lar riff, but the song is destroyed by a pointlessly slow verse. Patient listeners can play "try-to-find-the-beat" while listening to "What Do You Want To Be." 
"Be the Ball" is the real jewel of the album. The amazing thing is that Slash had the guts to claim sole songwriting credit for this song. The story of two men packing up and leaving it all behind, it is easily one of the stupidest songs ever recorded. "Be the ball I We are so amazingly high I Be the ball I Hell-bent, dammit, we love to drive." Wow. Jack Kerouac must be spin­ning in his grave. 
The sad thing is that there are some good musicians here. Slash is a talented guitarist, although that's easy to forget when listening to this. And bassist Mike Inez is always fun to listen to, but when you remember his work with Alice in Chains, you want to kick him in the head for contributing to this crap. Vocalist Dover, alas, has no redeeming qualities. Imagine Axl Rose with a laryngectomy? That may sound pleasant to the mind's ear, but listen to Dover before you jump to any conclu­sions. 
One very good thing about It's Five O'Clock Somewhere: The oh-so-cleverly titled "Jizz da Pit" is an instrumental. It's really scary to think what the lyrics would be. For sweet relief, take two aspirin and find a copy of Appetite For Destruction, so you can remember when Guns 'n' Roses was just a band and Slash's Snakepit was only a horrible idea. 
-by Kevin Dolan, Music Critic 

T
he record industry is looking more and more like a game of pin the tale on the donkey. Record executives play hit or miss in search of the next MTV buzz bands. Since the days when an executive from the Geffen company discovered an obscure Seattle noise band who went on to change the world, record execs now scour the land in search of any band 
Hardvark 

Memory Barge 
David Geffen Company 
out of five 
** which sounds remotely fresh. Of course, what usually happens is they find mediocre bands which amount to nothing more than clones of the latest trend, thus defeating music as an evolutionary process. Music should be moving forward, towards a new, original sound. However, lately it seems like the bands that hit it big merely rehash old sounds or offer a slight and subtle innovation to an already existing sound. 
With that in mind, we may look at some of the latest bands which have enjoyed recent commercial success. The Counting Crows offered a mere retro-classic rock sound. And what ever happened to the poster children of MTV's alternative nation tour a couple of years back, the Spin Doctors? If my memory serves correct, they played to an enthusiastic, alternative-going Notre Dame crowd. Well to the cutting edge crowd of Notre Dame, and every other Spin Doctors fan, you guys just flat-out ignored their latest release. Rightly so, it was terrible. But hey, so was their first, but you guys didn't care. The Spin Doctors grew up around the HORDE movement, spawned by Grateful Dead clones like the Samples, Big Head Todd, etc... Oh that's right, isn't this the campus which voted for a ticket that promised the Grateful Dead? Suckers . 
Please, excuse my ramblings. Just a feeble attempt to introduce this week's review, Hardvark's Memory Barge. Hailing from Champaign, IL, Geffen introduces us to the latest grunge clones. The industry just won't quit. On the first track, "Fawn," the listener is intro­duced to the latest slackers. "Everything is such a chore/ I was passed out on the floor." A sonic, sneering riff prevails throughout this slacker anthem. 
On the second track, "Birdseed," Randy Towner screams with all the angst he can muster, " David Lee Roth was ahead of his time." In "F-C-Wendy-9-4," with the help of Wendy O'Neal, Towner sings "What do you want?/ Everything/ That's All I want." All of course, backed by conventional metal structures. Yawn. 
"Man of Sciences" offers a bit of stimulation with a Red Hot Chili Pepper's type funk. It's funky like that, well sort of. Any J. Mascis fan would cringe at the sor­rowful attempt of Towner to achieve a vintage Mascis laconic, sonic hook in "Dress." It evens sounds like Towner is pinching his nose, attempting to imitate Mascis' nasal resonance. Whatever the case, Hardvark will soon fall back into the obscurity of frat parties, opening up for bands with names like "Exploding Cu­cumbers." Attention, please. Turn down your Candlebox and Stone Temple Pilots for a second. Grunge is dead. 
-by Alex Aguirre, Music Critic 
Thursday, April 27, 1995 :ACCENT page 15 .. 
• MUSIC REVIEW 
Bendine in the Rieht Direction 
By CHRISTIAN STEIN Music Critic 
Radiohead 
The Bends 
Capitol Records 
****~
out of five 
K
nown as "Britain's best kept secret," Oxford, 
England's Hadiohead have made another 
absolutely incredible album. After the relatively mild success in the U.S. with their first full length CD, Pablo Honey, Hadiohead is once again diving head first into the American market with their latest addi­tion to record store shelves, The Bends. Comparatively mild with respect to the fast paced, loud and raw Pablo Honey, The Bends is a brilliant coneoction of guitars, orchestration and vocals. 
Undoubtedly known for their mega-hit "Creep," Hadiohead are far better than that single indicates. With immense popularity on the British underground music scene, Hadiohead have since developed into a mainstream alternative-rock band. This new popular­ity has arisen mostly by word of mouth and through live shows. Pablo Honey acted as a ground breaker for the band, and unfortunately, its lack of popularity still mmains completely unjustified. Possibly one of the best albums released in 1993, Pablo Honey was overshadowed by such successes as Stone Temple Pilots' debut Core and Blind Melon. The truth of the matter is that Pablo Honey is far better, start to fin­ish, than either of those two classics. 
Hecent releases like Pearl Jam's Vitalogy and Live's Throwing Copper have captured the spotlight, and The Bends will probably suffer the same fate as Pablo /Ioney. Hegardless, Hadiohead should take a small bite out of the American market with their more mel­low and honest second release. 
Lead singer/guitarist Thorn Yorke's unlimited singing range provides the perfect accompaniment for the music of the other band members' intricate, soft, yet hard at times. Possessing the ability to write great songs that combine an acoustic guitar with two other guitars driving out heavy distortion, Hadiohead are truly in a lea~:,TUe of their own. 
The expectation of a hard and loud album is quickly destroyed with the opening track "Planet Telex." This song opens with keyboards and chorus-filled guitars playing a groovy transition of chords. As this builds, the distortion arrives just on time, as do Yorke's vocals. A spacey, early 80's feeling to the music compliments the critical lyrics, "You can kiss it I you can break all the rules I but still I everything is broken I everyone is broken I why can't you forget?" 
Following "Planet Telex" is the most upbeat and Pablo Honey-esque song, "The Bends." liard guitars and singly strummed power chords open this awe­some song, but are soon replaced by a funky beat. The heavy chords return during the chorus but are once again replaced by a nifty drum interlude. This song has the capability to be taken for all its worth as it builds in intensity. 


The MTV Buzz Clip "Fake Plastic Trees" is yet another highlight on the album, but is a far cry from "The Bends." Its slow and delicate sound, complete with cello, viola and violin, does justice to the haunt­ing angst-filled vocals. "She looks like the real thing I she tastes like the real thing I my fake plastic love I but I can't help the feeling I I could blow through the ceiling I if I just turn and run I and it wears me out." 
The art of combining distortion with true acoustic guitars is no more evident than on the sixth song, "Nice Dream." This remorseful-sounding track keeps a steady rhythm that is later joined by harmonious backing vocals that are, in some obscure way, similar to a '70's Carpenters song. 
This 1970's touch continues as a sort of disco/lounge tinge becomes apparent in the next song, "Just." With catchy lyrics and a fun beat, this song makes you want to shake your thing. "He's been hanging round for days I comes in like a comet I suck­ered you I but not your friends I one day he'll get to you I teach you how to be a holy cow." 
The album comes to an incredible finish with the song "Street Spirit" which leaves a lasting impression. Not only does the music leave you thinking, but the final lyrics uttered provoke thought as well. Yorke simply states, "Immerse yourself in love." 
The Bends is full of surprises for first time Hadiohead listeners, and for previous fans, it adds a whole new angle to their previous work and style. Pablo Honey and The Bends are two completely dif­ferent albums. Both are incredible. This British one­hit wonder has much more to offer than the majority realizes. The Bends is, for Radiohead, a step in the right direction. 
Christian Stein's music reviews appear every Thursday in Accent. 

I. Dave Matthews d • Under the Tabl'e and Dreaming 
2. 
Live -Throwing Copper 

3. 
Friday -Soundtrack 

4. 
Hootie and the Blowfish ­Cracked Rear View 

5. 
Harry Connick -She 

6. 
Eric Clapton .. Cream of Clapton 

7. 
Collective Soul -Collective 


Soul 8. 
12. 
Skid Row -Subhuman Race 

13. 
Blues Traveler -Four 


•14. 2Pac -Me Against the World 
15. Tom Petty • Wildflo 16.\~w Order • Best of 
17. Rusted Root • When I 
/il1!
.QI.• I ... 
local record Bend Ave, 277-8338. 
• CYBERSURF 
UNLOC 
Internet Style 
L
et's get back to basics. Forget starting up your own home page, finding a job, or starting your own chat forum, let's just say you want some information for your next Theology paper. Okay, so you sit in front of the terminal, launch Netscape, and then what? Sure, the Notre Dame home page is pretty and has 

lots of neat graphics, but that's by Aaron Villaruz  
not going to help you with Accent Writer  
your Theo paper. Hmmm...  
this is a Catholic University, we should write the paper  
on Catholicism. How are you going to get information  
on the Council of Trent? How about Vatican II? St.  
Augustine's writings? Catholic Saints?  
Well, there is a page that features all of this informa­ 
tion, but it's a long way from the Notre Dame Home  
page. Then again, it's closer than you think. There are  
essentially two ways to search out information on the  
Net: Search Engines and Subject Browsers.  
The Search Engine is a program that searches the  
Net based on user-entered key words and phrases.  
They basically come in two varieties: Spider-Based  
Web Catalogs and List-Based Web Catalogs. Spider  
based web searchers do kind of what a spider does.  
They creep and they crawl and explore until they find  
what they want. Sporting snazzy names like "World  
Wide Web Crawler," "NIKOS," and "Jump Station,"  
these programs burrow around from sight to sight  
looking for the information you want. Saving you the  
trouble, it will look around in every place it knows and  
list for you all of the resources it found when its done.  
The List Based WWW is basically just a huge list of re­ 
sources that gets scanned for any entered keywords.  
Either method is effective, and yields are usually high.  
The key to any good Web search is a good choice of  
keywords. Now, we can't get too specific, or else we  
may come up with nothing. Then again, we can't be  
too broad, that would result in getting too much infor­ 
mation. Somewhere between "Council of Trent" and  
"Christian" is probably a good place to start. "Catholic"  
would probably work well. We'll try that. Bingo. Plug  
that baby into the World Wide Web Crawler, and we  
get about 10 entries A nice manageable number. Don't  
try "Christian," that would yield over 50 entries, and  
don't try "Council of Trent" either, that gives you noth­ 
ing So here we are with 10 entries that have the word  
"Catholic" somewhere in the title. One of these surely  
has just what we want.  
The second method of finding what you want is the  
subject browser. The subject browser divides, well,  
everything you would ever want to know about, into,  
well, subjects. The Yahoo Server is the King of All  
Subject Browsers. Accessible from dozers of other  
sights and servers (including Aaron Villaruz's Home  
page: http:l/www.nd.edu/-avillaru), the Yahoo Server  
currently features 34,978 links to different resources  
on the Net. The Yahoo is very cleverly organized by  
subject.  
The main menu lets you choose from: Art, Business,  
Computers, Education, Economy, Entertainment,  
Environment, Events, Government, Health,  
Humanities, Law, News, Politics, Reference, Regional  
Information, Science, Social Science and Society and  
Culture. I think that has all the bases covered. Alright,  
we need to know something about Catholicism. It goes  
a little something like this. We need to resist the urge  
to go straight to Entertainment (where we can find out  
the release date for the new Right Said Fred album)  
and skip on over to Society and Culture. Here we'll find  
info on everything from Folklore to Terrorism to Sex.  
We'll have to skip out on Sex for today and get into  
Religion. Bingo! The Catholic Resources Page. Just  
what we needed. Here it is. The Council of Trent,  
Vatican II, St. Augustine, Gregorian Chant, all here.  
This Theo paper is cake.  
Now, how do we get to these nifty search engines  
and subject browsers? The best way is probably to fmd  
a site that features all of your favorite places to roam  
and go from there My home page features just about everything I mentioned, so you can always stop there.  ...  
Otherwise go from the Notre Dame Home page to  
"Exploring the Internet," and if you poke around long  
enough you can probably find a good Search Engine or  
a link up to Yahoo, where you can either search by  
subject or pop right into some of the more popular  
Engines.  
It's that easy. I promise.  •  
Cybersurf appears every Thursday in Accent. Aaron  
Villaruz and Brian Zelizo alternate as columnists.  
Featured Links:  
Aaron's Page: http://www nd edu/-avillaru  
World Wide Web Worm: http://www.cs.col  
orado.edu/homelmcbryan/WWWW.html  
Yahoo Server: http://akebono.stanford.edu/yahoo  

~. 
I I 
Thursday, April27, 1995 The Observer· SPORTS page 16 

Kiper's revenge: Colts trade for Dilfer's backup 
By HANK LOWENKRON Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
The Indianapolis Colts reached an agreement Wednesday for a three-year contract with quarterback Craig Erickson from the Tampa Bay Buccaneers and he imme­diately left Florida to join his new team. 
Bill Tobin, vice president and director of football operations, said Tampa Bay would receive the first round draft pick of the Colts in the 1996 draft as part of the trade. 
"We'll also be giving them our fourth round pick next year if certain conditions are met," Tobin said, adding that the con­ditions were too complicated to discuss. 
Tobin and coach Ted Marchibroda said they antici­pated Erickson, a starter in 30 games for the Buccaneers the past two years, would compete with Jim Harbaugh for the starting job during training camp and preseason games. 
In remarks at the news conference announcing the signing, Tobin denied reports that "he was in love with Jim Harbaugh," who he signed as a first-round pick with Chicago and then re-signed last year after being hired by the Colts. 
"The coaches determine who plays. It was true last year, and it will be true in the years to come," he said. 
"It was a great week for the Colts. We've certainly improved our football team (through the draft) and we great deal of im­provement with the trade," Marchibroda said. "We've got the young blossoming quarter­back, whom we think is going to be is a fme quarterback, not only for this year. but for years to come." 
Erickson, a fourth-round pick by Tampa Bay in 1991, has completed 473 of 882 passes for 6,094 yards and 34 touch­downs with 31 interceptions in three seasons. One of his best games in the NFL was against the Colts last year, when he completed 19 of 24 passes for 313 yards and three TDs with­out an interception or sack in a 24-10 victory by the Bucs. 
"We have a veteran in Harbaugh and I think that's probably as fine a combination as you could have," Marchibroda said. "Craig is a very bright individual. ... He's got the strong arm. He's able to get the ball downfield with his feet in any position." 
Erickson was to arrive in Indianapolis early Wednesday evening and sign his contract after completing a physical. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Cenrer. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 ......... ,~,..,.,, .,,.., cents per character per day, including all spaces . 
Classifieds 
AA CRUISE SHIPS HIRING! EARN  Female nonsmk grad student want­ FOR SALE  ADOPTION -A LOVING CHOICE  Wanted: A passenger for the drive  
NOTICES  BIG$$$+ FREE WORLD TRAVEL (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII,  ed to share spacious apt in historic downtown. Lrg windows, hardwood  MAC LCIIIB/160 (RAM/HD) 14" Color Monitor  Pediatrician and pediatric nurse happily married for seven years are  to California after graduation. I'm a better conversation than you last  
ETC.) SUMMER/PERMANENT, NO  firs & fireplace. $200/mo. heat incl I  14.4 Fax Modem  hoping to share our love with a  SYR date. Guaranteed.  
J U N 0 R S  EXPER. NEC. GUIDE. (919)929­ Call Alisa @ 4-3730  Some software included  child. We love the outdoors, have  Call Aaron at x2052.  
4398 ext. C1082  $1700  comfortable home and country lake­ 
U SUBMIT PRINTED COPY  HOMES FOR RENT  Call 4-1457 for info.  side cottage. Will provide secure,  Don't Forget Sophomores ...  
OF RESUME AND DISK  COUNSELORS WANTED for  NEAR CAMPUS  loving home with full time mom.  
N TO CAREER & PLACE­ Kwiwanis Twin Lakes Camp located  232-2595  FOR SALE:  Counseling and allowable expens­ The CLASS SERVICE PROJECT  
MENT SERVICES FOR  in Plymounth, Ind. This is a sum­ Macintosh IISi w/personallaser  es. Call Kim or Mike at1-800-469­ at the NE Neighborhood is going  
RESUME BOOKS NOWI  mer camp for physically and men­ SUBLET THIS SUMMER I  writer printer. Must sell, can't store!  0559  strong but can always use new vol­ 
tally handicapped children and  College Park Condo- Best offer by Monday, May 1.  unteers. Its a lot of fun -give it a try.  
0 DEADLINE: BEFORE YOU  young adults. Most campers are  2 females needed!  Call Byron at x1478.  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  We leave at 2:30pm and  
LEAVE CAMPUS IN MAY.  age 7 thru 21, but we have lifted the  272-1538  LaFortune Student Center  3:30pm from Main Circle every  
R  age limit. The campers are from  2-YR OLD PANASONIC PRINTER  ..J Quick turn around time!!!  Wednesday and Friday, and return  
the Chicago metro area and from all  2 bedrooms in quiet neighbour­ FOR SALE -PERFECT COND.  ..J Most orders completed  at4:30. Call Brian x1058.  
s  over the state of Indiana. We want  hood, close to campus. Use of  CALL VAL 4-2597  within 24 hours  
you to have an interest in working  kitchen & laundry facilities. Summer  v Free pick-up & delivery  
Antostalthis week ...  with disabled children. The camp  and fall school year. Rent is $250  4 p1ece Tama Granstar drums w/ all  to & from departments  Spend some time during AnTostal  
MOVIES:  sessions run from June 11 to  per month. Call Paul at 232-2794.  hardware & zildjian cymbals. Most  ..J Caii631-COPY  with underpriviledged kidsl  
Sneakers  August16 with orientation the week  pieces excellent condition, bass a  
Strange Brew  prior . We provide room and board  Female Roomate needed 4  bit less so. Real bargain at $600.  Lisa & Andrea missed the boat! I  The Sophomore Class will be  
Star Trek Generations  plus $1 ,000.00. If interested please  summer session $165/mo Call  <jbdougla@indiana.edu> or  Fellow Seniors-We need a booze  adopting kids for two hours on FRI­ 
-SUB  call the camp's winter office 312­ 2334960  <douglass.1 @ nd.edu> or 272­ cruise ticket and fast! X2514-Will  DAY APRIL 28 and take them  
767-CAMP  7417.  pay a handsome ransom!I  around to play games on the quad  
$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS$$  Share a faculty house $250/mo.  and see our campus. Don't be  
Are you going to read those things  Looking for roommate to sublet 2  +1/2 utilities call287-1449  For Sale: Student membership  I ned a ride to EASTERN MASS  embarrased to go bungee running  
again? I think not. 2323-2342  bedroom apt for the summer Call  (Great rate!) to Pinnacle Megaclub,  after graduation. Will split  and human bowling this year­ 
Pandora's Bks NO Ave & Howard  Tom @273-1990  College Park Condo for rent this  including full use of free weight  gas/tolls/etc. Please call soon.  adopt a little sib! To sign up or for  
summer. Call271-7895.  room, aerobics, sauna, jacuzzi, etc.  Tom x1712  more information. call Brian x1058.  
ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAK­ Attention summer school students!  Good through summer 1996. Call  Thank you.  
FAST, 35 MIN TO N.D. SPECIAL "OBSERVER" RATE $50/$60,  Looking for a responsible, fun-lov­ing student to babysit my 2 children,  FOR SALE  Katie X4089 today!  JEREMY!  Will you be at  
FULL BREAKFAST. THE HOME­ ages 5&7, 2-3 afternoons per week  86 HONDA PRELUDE Sl  Happy 19th Birthday  IU-BLOOMINGTON  
SPUN COUNTRY INN, NAPPA­ 2-6pm in my Granger home. Please  OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered  red 5spd  Love,S  during the 1995-96 schoolyear?  
NEE, 219-773-2034.  call277-5786.  at $85,900. First floor location.  Must Sell4-2475  I am looking for a female non-smok­ 
Finished basement with full lavato­ Driving to  ing roommate.  
HANDCRAFTED GIFTS from  NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ ry. Two bedrooms and two baths on  If you're planning on living off-cam­ NJ or Long Island  Margaret 271-1493  
atound the world.  Seasonal & full-time employment  ground level. Lease back to owner  pus next year, we have some furni­ after finals?  
GLOBAL GIFTS at LaFortune  available at National Parks, Forests  through May, 1995. Call  ture you might want to buy.  Want some company?  Why you slimy double-crossing, no  
Student Center, April 25-28  & Wildlife Preserves. Benefits +  (616)946-0700.  We kept it real clean and want to  Call Kristen x2339  good swindler. You've got a lot of  
Room 108 9am-6pm.  bonuses! Call: 1-206-545-4804 ext.  sell it soon. Call 271-1390 if you're  guts coming here, after what you  
N55843  very cool LOFT for sale X2533  interested in big desks, shelves, a  SPANK THE GARDNER!! I  pulled.  
THE BIG EARL BAND  couch with pull-out bed, lamp  IT'S HER 21st BIRTHDAY  
Rocks Alumni Senior Club  SUMMER JOBS  Mountain Bike  tables, lamps, and more.  Celebration commences tonight  FREE BEER!  
111111! Tonight4/27 1!111!111  ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  Raleigh Talon in good condition  and continues until she can no  Looking for someone with a car to  
ILOST & FOUND I  PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID  18 speed $200 Call Frank at x2049  Soprano SAX, Caravella Brittany, $800. call x4200  longer function (a few days)! If you see her, buy her something other than a mixed drink!  roadtrip to Kenyon College (OH) this weekend for free parties, free food, and free housing. Call1385.  
1-800-786-8373  Want to connect to the camps net­ FOR SALE:  With love,  
LOST: Vivitar AF 200 35 mm cam­ work (e-mail, www, fetch, internet,  Macintosh LC II and Monitor  The Knotties  
era at an apartment on Lance Court  Need 1 graduation ticket x4200  etc) or any other on-line service?  4 MB RAM, 75 MB Hard Drive  WE NEED YOU! WE NEED YOU!  
or vicinity during the Shadowlands  Super fast modem for sale that also  -Includes Word. ClarisWorks and  AnTostal is looking for volunteers  
cast party on Fri, April 21. Name  *******"**"'WANTED****************  sends faxes and has voice mail as  other Software.  Oinkl Oinkl  for Thursday and Friday to help with  
and home address on back.  I need a Mountain bike in good con­ well I All software included for cam­ -Great for Word-processing!  St. Patrick's Park  events. Without your support these  
Sentimental value; no questions  dition.  pus connection as well as faxing  -$500 or best offer  North on Juniper to Auten.  events will not take place.  
asked if returned.  Call Mike at X41 00  and voicemail features. New;  -Call Michelle at4-1489  Left on Auten across 31.  
REWARD. call Sue x1522  $149.95 ... your price: $95! Only  Right on Laurel.  If you would like to help call Molly or  
Silver and Brass Bracelet between Debart and NOH. Not worth a lot,  FOR RENT  four months old! Call Matt at 273­6163 for info.  TICKETS  Straight to Park. 11to 6ish  Tracy at634-1291. Freebies avail­able to volunteers.  
just got it in Mexico. so I want it  Painted loft with shelves 4sale!  Need a lot of extra graduation tick­ catch the pig ride at the turtle river  Come to North Quad volunteer  
backl If found. call Janina -1412  **********NOTICE****"*****••••  x3806  ets. x3711  near the cactus. oink  booth or call right away.  
If you are interested in living at  
I lost a book called Revolutionary  Turtle Creek next year, call Chris  2 ONE-WAY FLIGHTS TO  I need graduation tickets. Please  HOLY CROSS HALL BLOCK  Krista and Michelle  
Phrases by Lenin. The cover has a  at273-1399 as soon as possible.  FT. MYERS, FL., SAT. 5/10. $125  call Lisa at 277-07 40  PARTY  have their last show on  
big picture of Lenin's face. If you  EA. 277-2488.  Featuring: Big Eart  WVFIAM640  
found it. please call John at 271­ LIVE IN A GOOD AREA FUR­ I Need Graduation Tickets  Little Milton  this FRIDAYIII  
1390.  NISHED HOMES NORTH OF ND  LOFT FOR SALEIII  289-3203 Mike.  Shady Elaine  11:30 to 1:30pm  
IDEAL FOR 3-7 PEOPLE 2773097  Very tall loft reasonable price  When: April27 (Thurs.) 7-11pm  Are you going to listen or what?  
LOST: multi-colored ankle bracelet;  Call X 3756 -Becky  For Sale:  Where: South side Madeleva  
last seen in front of neuwland.  Furnished Chicago Sublet: June­ 2 one way flights to Ft. Myers Fla.  rain local: Haggar Terrace  ••••••••HAPPY 22ND BIRTHDAY  
please call x2644!  Aug, Lincoln Park, 2 blks from lake,  EPSON LX-810 printer. Used for  Sat. May 10  Who: EVERYONE  JENNIFER DREWNOt ..••••••••••-1  
el, & bus, large 1 bdrm, $550.  1sem. Make offer. Call Janine­ $125 each. call277-2488  hope your 22nd is all that you  
WANTED  Andrea 312-554-5959w, 312-404­1863h.  1412  I have xtra grad tixl  $1 donation to Mara Fox Scholar­ship fund  expect plus some. Well, we did it­were done! We are aon to bigger  
89 red Nissan Sentra. Only 44,000  Chris 277 4316  and better. The last four years have  
Employment opportunity with an  2 BDRM house $520/mo. + util.  miles, Great Condition, Must see.  RAFFLES!! RAFFLES!! RAFFLES!!  been out of control from Elkhart to  
Architectural and Engineering firm  624 Park (Historic District)  $4000 OBO. Call273 8428  I Need GRADUATION TICKETS  Arizonia. Oh, and we only have 16  
located in historic Lafayette, Indiana  Grad. Students pref. 232-6079  call ED @ X4204  Sponsored by Holy Coss Hall  days to the ultimate HUI Not only  
for ARCHITECTURAL GRADUATE  89 red Nlssan Sentra. Only 44,000  Council  do I wish you a great 22nd but con­ 
with AutoCAD proficiency and 3  FURNISHED ROOM, AIR,  Miles, Great Condition, Must See  NEED 5 GRAD. TIX FOR FAMILY  gratulations on graduating from the  
months office experience. Resume  KITCHEN, PHONE, 3 MIN. N. OF  $4000 OBO. Call 273 8428  please call Dan @ 3669  big ND. Being all that-you would  
to H.L. Mohler & Associates, P.C.,  CAMPUS. 272-0615.  DAVID SPADE  think I could get the Pathfinder for  
839 Main Street. Lafayette, IN  --VW---JETIA GLI  Irish Grandparents need tickets for  the funniest  your birthday-l'm still trying.  
47901  Student Apts. in 3-flat, heat includ­ 16V---VW-­ graduation. Please call Carolyn at  SNL COMEDIAN  P.S.-Breakfast and Smoke firess  
..  SUMMER SALES OPPORTUNITY.  ed. Furnished studio, $230. Furnished 1 bedrm, $265.  •1990 •spotless, no rust •white •sunroof •manual •new sport tires  271-7895 .  is COMING!! Friday, April 28 8:00pm  "the other one"  
Looking for ambitious student(s) for summer advertising sales in South  Unfurnished lge 1 bedrm, $330. 755 South Bend Ave.-1 blk. west of ND  •looks and runs like new •$9500 call now: 284-5261  PERSONAL  Stepan Center $3 at Info Desk  LISTEN! to 88.9 WSND FM  
Bend area and Northwest Indiana.  Ave. Deposit. 1-800-582-9320  Philosophy, schmilosophy  Thursday nights 12-2 AM  
Must have automobile. Call  Pinnacle Megaclub Memberships  The rangers had ahomecoming in  "Alternative" music.  
Enterprise Publishing at 1-800-37 4­ Rm available in 3 bedrm home for  (2): All you have to pay is mo. fee.  Harlem late last night. And the  We really like you Mark Huffman.  cheese contests and on-air  
2253.  summer/fall '95. $240 incl. utilities.  lnit. fee already paid.  magic rat drove his street machine  Really, we do.  smoothees  
5-min drive. 232-7175 or 631-4809.  ··can Rick 271-0764  over the Jersey state line  Hugs and Kisses,  
HOME FOR FISH-AN OSCAR AND  Krista  Buck,  
SUCKER -FOR SUMMER AND OR  Looking for roommates for Indian  LOFT4SALEII  Christina and Katie,  There is some slight hope for us.  
NEXT YEAR-WE'RE GRADUAT­ Springs,3 BDRM, $200-$250/mo.  in excellant condition  Blah, blah, blah. Yeah, you already  You guys don't even know what  If nothing else, we'll just have to  
ING. CALL277-1704.  Call Mike@273-6499  Call x3831  know what I'm trying to say.  cool is. -Frank  settle for G-love.  

~------------~~~~~----------------------------~-----~----------­
page 17 The Observer· SPORTS Thursclay, April 27, 1995 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Appier loses no-hitter, 
•
wins season opener 
By CRAIG HORST 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. 
Maybe if there had been normal spring training, Kevin Appier might've been able to pitch a no-hitter. 
And certainly there would've been more people to see it. 
Instead, only 24.170 fans -includ­ing those admitted for free -saw Appier pulled after 6 2-3 innings with a no-hitter in progress. Reliever Rusty Meacham gave up a hit with one out in the eighth, and the Kansas City Royals went on to beat the Baltimore Orioles 5-1. 
The smallest opening day crowd in Kansas City since 1984 saw manager Bob Boone win his debut. 
The victory came on the Royals' first game on the new grass field at Kauffman Stadium. 
General admission seats in left field and right field were free, but only tralf-filled. Recently, a local newspa­per columnist urged fans to boycott the home opener after the Royals traded away Cy Young winner David Cone and center fielder Brian McRae, two of the team's best and most popu­lar players. 
The columnist backed off after he met with team officials and they offered free seats for the first four games of the season. 
Appier, who said before the game 
that he expected to throw only 90 
pitches, was pulled after making 88. 
lie struck out seven and walked two, 
and was the winner. 
Boone was booed after bringing in Meacham, who later gave up a one­out single in the eighth to Leo Gomez. 
Appier pitched just 11 1-3 innings during a spring training cut in half to three weeks because of the strike. Last season, he completed one of 23 starts. 
Bob Feller pitched the only opening­day no-hitter in history, leading Cleveland past Chicago 1-0 on April 16, 1940. 
BALTIMORE  KANSAS CITY  
ab  r  h  bl  ab  r  h  bl  
ByAdsn If  4  0  0  0  Tucker If  3  0  1  0  
Brberie 2b  3  0  0  0  Millerph  •1  0  0  0  
Bass ph  1  0  0  0  Howardlf  1  0  0  0  
Alxndr 2b  0  0  0  0  Godwin cf  3  1  1  0  
Plmlro 1b  3  0  0  0  Joyner1b  4  1  2  1  
CRpken ss  3  0  0  0  Hmelln dh  3  0  1  1  
Baines dh  3  0  0  0  Nunly dh  0  1  0  0  
Holies c  3  1  0  0  Joserf  30 00  
VnSiyk cf  3  0  0  0  Hiatt rf  1  0  0  0  
LGmez3b  3  0  1  0  Gaetti 3b  4  1  0  0  
Hmnds rf  1  0  0  0  Gagness  3  1  2  0  
Buford rf  0  0  0  0  Maynec  2  0  0  0  
Nokes ph  0  0  0  0  lind 2b  3  0  1  2  
Obando rf  1  0  1  1  
Totals  28  1  2  1  Totals  31  5  8  4  
Baltimore  000  000  010-1  
Kansas City  000  002  12x-5  

E-Palmeiro (1), Obando (1). DP-Kansas City 1. LOB-Baltimore 5, Kansas City B. 28---Joyner (1 ), Hamelin (1). lind (1). 58-Goodwin (1). CS­Goodwin (1). S-Mayne. 
IP 
Baltimore Mussina 5 Moyer L,0-1 1 1-3 Mills 0 Pennington 1 Benitez 2-3 
Kansas City AppierW,1-0 62-3 Meacham 2-3 Brewer 2-3 Montgomery 1 
H  A  ER  BB  SO  
3  0  0  1  1  
4  3  3  0  0  
1  0  0  0  0  
0  1  0  1  2  
0  1  0  2  0  
0  0  0  2  7  
1  1  1  0  1  
1  0  0  0  0  
0  0  0  1  2  

50,000 attend Yankee win 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK, N.Y. 
Other than a few empty upper-deck seats and an umpire wearing an old-fash­ioned chest protector, things looked pret­ty normal for the New York Yankees on opening day. 
Jimmy Key was on the mound, the other team couldn't put much together against him and New York won 8-6 over Texas on Wednesday. 
Key won his third straight opening day start for New York and improved his career record in openers to 6-0. The Yankees won at home in their season debut for the sixth straight time. 
Danny Tartabull homered and drove in three runs, Bernie Williams hit a solo homer and Pat Kelly went 3-for-4 for New York, the pre-season favorite to win the tough AL East. 
A crowd of 50,245, about 6,500 fewer than last year's record attendance figure, watched the game on a warm spring afternoon. 
The replacement umpires included Bill Deegan, who called balls and strikes in· the majors from 1970-80. He was back on the job Wednesday and once again wore the bulky, balloon outside chest protector. 
Key, the runner-up in American League Cy Young awarQ. voting last season, lasted five-plus innings and gave up seven hits, but Texas wasn't able to put together a rally against him until the sixth inning. By that time, New York had a 5-1 lead. 
Tartabull's homer made it 1-0 in the second, and he drew a bases-loaded walk to make it 2-0 an inning later. Don Mattingly had an RBI groundout and Mike Stanley singled to shortstop to drive in a run before the inning ended. 
A sacrifice fly by Wade Boggs in the fourth made it 5-1 before three straight hits in the fifth by Otis Nixon, Jeff Frye and Will Clark made it 5-3 and knocked Key (1-0) out of the game. 
The left-hander had no walks and three strikeouts. 
After Texas made it 5-3, the Yankees came right back with two runs in the bot­tom of the inning. 
Steve Howe allowed the Rangers to load the bases in the eighth, but McLemore flied out to center to end the threat. John Wetteland pitched a perfect ninth for his first American League save. 
TEXAS  NEW YORK  
abrhbl  abr hbl  
Nixon cf  4  1  2  2  Boggs 3b 4  1  1  1  
Frye 2b  5  1  1  0  Leyritz dh 5  1  2  0  
WC1ark1b  4  0  1  2  O'Nellllf  3  1  1  0  
THieton dh  4  0  1  0  Trtbuil rf  3  1  2  3  
Hare dh  0  0  0  0  GWims If 0  0  0  0  
IRdrgzc  4  0  1  0  Mttngly1b5  0  0  1  
Palmer 3b  2  1  0  0  Stanley c  4  0  2  1  
Greer rl  3  1  2  0  BWims cl 3  1  1  1  
Fox rf  0  0  0  0  TFmdz ss 4  2  2  0  
Htcher If  2  1  1  0  Kelly 2b  4  1  3  0  
McLmr If  2  1  1  2  
Gil ss  2  0  0  0  
Pglrulo ph  1  0  0  0  
Totals  33  6  10  6  Totals  35  8  14  7  
Texas  001  002  300~  
New York  013  102  01x-8  

E--Greer (1). DP-Texas 3, New York 1. LOB-Texas 5, New York 9. 28--Frye (1). !Rodriguez (1). Greer (1), Hatcher (1). TFernandez (1). HR-Tartabuil (1), BWilliams (1). CS-Nixon (1). S-Nixon. Gil. SF--Boggs. 
IP H R ER BB SO Texas Rogers L,0-1 3 5 4 4 2 3 Dettmer 1-3 2 1 1 0 0 Burrows 2 1-3 5 2 2 1 1 Whiteside 2 1 1 1 1 2 Oliver 0 0 0 0 1 0 McDowell 1-3 1 0 0 0 0 
New York KeyW,1·0 5 7 3 3 0 3 Wickman 2 2 3 3 0 0 Howe 1 1 0 0 2 1 Wetteland S,1 1 0 0 0 0 1 
ARCH 443 03 0128 ECON 24BT . 01 4046 HIST 341A 01 2954 MUS 221 01 1990 soc 370 01 2037 ARCH 543 01 0889 ECON 24BT 02 4047 HIST 353 01 3626 MUS 226 01 1574 soc 372 01 0315
DART 
ARCH 543 03 0721 ECON 24BT 03 4048 HIST 364A 01 3629 PHIL 201 01 1641 soc 390 01 2395 ARCH 543 04 2731 ECON 24BT 04 4049 HIST 386A 01 4159 PHIL 201 ·o2 1642 soc 430 01 3158 ARCH 565 01 2756 ECON 24BT 05 4050 HIST 388A 01 4161 PHIL 201 03 1643 soc 441 01 3831 CLQSEI:! SECIIQI'IS AS QE BA 230 01 0948 ECON 24BT 06 4051 HIST 401 01 3237 PHIL 201 04 1644 soc 448 01 3832 Z:OO ~ M. 'll~lil2S BA 230 03 0944 ECON 24BT 07 4052 HIST 404 01 4162 PHIL 201 05 1645 STY 256 01 4006 
BA 230 04 0945 ECON 315 01 4055 HIST 404A 01 4163 PHIL 201 09 1649 THEO 200 01 0790 ACCT 231 02 0412 BA 230 05 0946 ECON 410 01 4056 HIST 414 01 4164 PHIL 201 10 1650 THEO 200 02 2116 ACCT 231 04 0416 BA 230 06 0947 ECON 421 01 2604 HIST 414A 01 4165 PHIL 201 12 0810 THEO 200 03 4225 ACCT 231 05 0417 BA 362 01 0949 ECON 422 01 2603 HIST 455A 01 3642 PHIL 201 13 0808 THEO 200 04 4226 ACCT 231 06 0418 BA 363 01 0950 ECON 485 01 2136 HIST 456 01 3248 PHIL 201 14 0483 THEO 200 05 4227 ACCT 231 07 0419 BA 363 02 1151 EE 222T 01 1135 HIST 456A 01 3247 PHIL 201 15 2137 THEO 200 06 4270 ACCT 231 08 0420 BA 363 04 0951 EE 224L 01 1140 HIST 458 01 3078 PHIL 222 01 0649 THEO 201 01 2248 ACCT 231 09 0421 BA 363 06 0261 EE 224L 02 1141 HIST 458A 01 3080 PHIL 232 01 3940 THEO 217 01 3967 ACCT 231 10 0422 BA 391 01 0805 EE 344T 02 1148 HIST 466 01 4170 PHIL 239 01 4208 THEO 225 01 3968 ACCT 231 12 0404 BA 391 02 0716 EE 430 01 4264 HIST 474A 01 2979 PHIL 239 02 4209 THEO 242 01 3969 ACCT 231 13 0405 BA 392 02 2352 ENGL 200 02 3533 HIST 483A 01 3647 PHIL 242 01 2261 THEO 243 01 0288 ACCT 232 02 0818 BA 392 04 2350 ENGL 200 03 3534 HIST 495 16 4172 PHIL 243 01 3941 THEO 243T 01 2320 ACCT 371 01 0825 BA 490 01 0954 ENGL 3DOF 01 2339 HIST 495 58 4173 PHIL 246 01 1652 THEO 243T 02 2319 ACCT 371 03 0827 BA 490 02 0953 ENGL 3DOK 01 3535 !IPS 320 01 2133 PHIL 247 01 3283 THEO 250 01 0757 ACCT 371 04 0824 BA 490 03 0956 ENGL 301 01 3537 liPS 410 01 4068 PHIL 248 01 3942 THEO 259 01 3970 ACCT 372 02 0545 BIOS 201L 02 0960 ENGL 301 02 3538 !IPS 422 01 3763 PHIL 254 01 3943 THEO 260 02 3972 ACCT 380 02 2879 BIOS 201L 04 0514 ENGL 311 02 0610 liPS 561 01 4072 PHIL 256 01 3944 THEO 261 01 3318 ACCT 380 03 3428 BIOS 201L 05 2025 ENGL 316G 01 3102 LAW 506 02 1383 PHIL 261 01 1653 THEO 264 01 3085 ACCT 380 04 3429 BIOS 250L 01 2848 ENGL 319A 02 2939 LAW 591A 01 0711 PHIL 261 02 0531 THEO 265 01 0779 ACCT 475 01 2932 BIOS 250L 02 2847 ENGL 320 01 3540 LAW 601 01 1398 PHIL 264 01 3946 THEO 266 01 1997 ACCT 475 02 0603 BIOS 250L 03 2846 ENGL 334 01 3541 LAW 631A 01 1412 PHIL 264 02 3947 THEO 266 02 0778 ACCT 476 01 2126 BIOS 250L 04 2845 ENGL 340 01 3542 LAW 631B 01 1413 PHIL 269 01 2452 THEO 269 01 2380 ACCT 476 03 3133 BIOS 303 01 0962 ENGL 350 01 2569 LAW 631C 01 1414 PHIL 518 01 3803 THEO 270 01 3974 AERO 450 01 2925 BIOS 304L 02 0965 ENGL 384E 01 3544 LAW 6310 01 1415 PHYS 210 01 2997 THEO 270 02 3975 AFAM 329 01 3063 BIOS 304L 03 2239 ENGL 390C 01 4132 LAW 633 01 2990 PHYS 221L 02 1681 THEO 287 01 2377 AFAM 359 01 3461 BIOS 344L 01 0967 ENGL 409 01 2567 LAW 679 01 3046 PHYS 221L 04 2764 THEO 288 01 2376 AFAM 373 01 4119 BIOS 401L 02 2836 ENGL 415B 01 3549 LAW 695 01 4106 PHYS 221L 07 0294 THEO 290A 01 0465 AFAM 384E 01 3462 BIOS 420L 01 2827 ENGL 416 01 4080 LAW 695 02 1420 PHYS 229L 01 1687 THEO 290B 01 3977 AFAM 425 01 3108 BIOS 420L 02 2826 ENGL 416F 01 4081 LAW 695 03 1421 PHYS 229L 02 1688 THEO 290C 01 3978 AFAM 455 01 3463 CAPP 216 01 2536 ENGL 418 01 2563 LAW 695 04 1422 PHYS 421 01 0616 THEO 405 01 3979 AFAM 494 01 3466 CAPP 303 01 3064 ENGL 418F 01 4083 LAW 695 05 1423 PLS 381 03 1790 THTR 276 54 9754 AL 211 02 0842 CAPP 315 01 1012 ENGL 422 01 3555 MARK 231 01 1425 PLS 443 02 2420 tHTR 276 56 9756 AL 211 03 0843 CAPP 331 01 0579 ENGL 427E 01 3556 MARK 231 03 1426 PLS 481 02 0785 AL 211 04 0844 CAPP 361 01 1013 ENGL 428C 01 2561 MARK 231 04 1427 PSY 211A 01 1796 AL 211 05 0845 CAPP 368 01 0540 ENGL 433B 01 3349 MARK 231 05 3441 PSY 341 02 2053 Cl,ASSES IHAI WILL REQ~El'l AL 211 06 0846 CAPP 380 01 2533 ENGL 4678 01 3564 MARK 231 07 3442 PSY 341 03 2052 AI Z:OII ~.M. 4127/95AL 211 13 0853 CAPP 395 01 2530 ENGL 469 01 3566 MARK 231 08 1429 PSY 342 01 1798 AL 211 14 0854 CE 331 01 1017 ENGL 492 01 3571 MARK 231 09 1430 PSY 342 02 1839 ACCT 231 04 0416 AL 211 15 0855 CHEG 255T 02 0631 ENGL 495A 01 3573 MARK 350 01 1431 PSY 352 01 1799 ACCT 231 05 0417 AL 211 18 0858 CHEG 459 02 1039 ENGL 496A 01 3575 MARK 350 02 1432 -PSY 355 01 0530 ACCT 231 07 0419 AL 211 20 0860 CHEM 119L 07 3073 ENGL 496E 01 3576 MARK 370 01 1433 PSY 357 01 2411 ACCT 231 09 0421 AL 211 21 0861 CHEM 201 01 0291 FIN 231 01 1266 MARK 370 02 1434 PSY 359 01 3919 AL 211 02 0842 AL 211 22 0862 CHEM 201 02 0510 FIN 231 02 0601 MARK 384 01 1436 PSY 401 01 3922 AL 211 18 0858 AL 211 23 0863 CHEM 201 04 1062 FIN 347 02 2871 MARK 476 01 1437 PSY 454 01 0648 AL 211 25 0865 AL 211 24 0864 CHEM 223L 06 0458 FIN 360 02 1268 MARK 476 02 1438 PSY 455 01 3924 AL 211 31 0871 AL 211 25 0865 CHEM 247L 01 1066 FIN 360 03 1269 MATH 102 01 0466 PSY 462 01 2330 ANTH 329 01 3061 AL 211 26 0866 CHEM 321L 02 3939 FIN 361 03 1276 MATH 225T 02 0621 PSY 488B 01 4005 BA 230 03 0944 AL 211 27 0867 CHEM 333L 01 0508 FIN 370 01 1277 MATH 225T 03 0620 RLST 235 44 9544 BA 363 06 0261 AL 211 28 0868 CHEM 333L 02 1078 FIN 380 04 2875 MATH 225T 04 0619 RLST 242 58 9558 BA 391 01 0805 AL 211 29 0869 CHEM 333L 05 2803 FIN 460 03 3434 MATH 225T 08 0503 RLST 393 68 9568 BIOS 201L OS 2025 AL 211 3D 0870 COCL 101 01 2587 FIN 470 01 1284 MATH 226 01 1484 ROFR 235 01 1926 BIOS 303 01 0962 AL 211 31 0871 COCT 207 01 4128 FIN 473 01 1285 MATH 226T 02 0501 ROFR 371 01 2971 BIOS 304L 03 2239 AL 211 32 0872 COCT 305 01 3181 FIN 473 02 0599 MATH 226T 03 0500 ROFR 413 01 3807 COTH 205 02 3077 AL 211 33 0873 COCT 425 01 3915 GE 101 01 1326 MATH 325 01 1488 ROSP 102A 05 1943 ECON 24BT 03 4048 AL 211 34 0874 COMM 103 03 9703 GE 101 02 1327 MATH 325 03 0618 ROSP 102A 06 2140 ECON 24BT 05 4050 AL 211 36 0445 COMM 103 07 9707 GE 101 03 1328 MATH 325 04 0617 ROSP 103 02 1945 ECON 24BT 07 4052 AMST 264 01 2287 COMM 103 09 9709 GE 107 01 1336 MBA 601 01 3451 ROSP 103 05 1948 EE 224L 02 1141 AMST 314G 01 3876 COTH 204 01 3025 GOVT 240 02 3200 ME 24IL 01 0383 ROSP 103 07 1950 ENGL 301 01 3537 AMST 319E 02 3470 COTH 205 01 3027 GOVT 242T 03 2518 ME 241L 02 0382 ROSP 103 10 1953 ENGL 334 01 3541 AMST 354H 01 3873 COTH 205 02 3077 GOVT 243T 03 2513 ME 331L 01 0380 ROSP 201 03 1958 ENGL 428C 01 2561 AMST 367H 01 3471 COTH 2855 02 3521 GOVT 243T 06 2509 ME 331L 02 0379 ROSP 234 01 0525 ENGL 496E 01 3576 AMST 368H 01 3079 COTH 310 01 40t!4 GOVT 243T 07 2508 ME 331L 04 0377 ROSP 237 01 0647 GOVT 240 02 3200 AMST 387H 01 2978 COTH 435A 01 3525 GOVT 314 01 3882 ME 339T 02 2923 ROSP 237 02 0701 HIST 201 01 4150 AMST 398E 01 3474 COTH 4361 01 3526 GOVT 325 01 3160 ME 339T 04 2921 ROSP 290 01 4220 MARK 231 05 3441 AMST 409E 01 3476 COTH 440 01 2946 GOVT 491G 01 0484 MGT 231 01 1541 ROSP 310 01 1960 MGT 231 01 1541 AMST 456H 01 3246 COTH 441 01 0537 GOVT 491M 01 3896 MGT 231 02 1544 ROSP 318 01 2973 MGT 231 02 1544 AMST 457 01 3478 COTH 480 01 2138 GOVT 588 01 3901 MGT 231 05 2229 ROSP 318 02 2416 MUS 221 01 1990 AMST 478H 01 3480 CSE 332L 01 0840 GSC 243 01 3997 MGT 240 01 1547 ROSP 328 01 1%1 PHIL 201 09 1649 AMST 479 01 3481 CSE 332L 04 0451 HESB 491 01 3221 MGT 240 02 1548 ROSP 328 02 0133 PHIL 201 12 0810 AMST 522 01 3483 CSE 413 01 0491 HIST 201 01 4150 MGT 482 01 1542 ROSP 431 01 3824 PHYS 229L 01 1687 ANTH 310 01 3486 ECON 225T 04 4031 HIST 261 01 3614 MI 311 01 3227 soc 220 01 1978 PSY 488B 01 4005 ANTH 328 Ol 2975 ECON 225T 05 4032 HIST 264 01 3615 MI 334 01 3765 soc 232 01 2107 ROSP 103 10 1953 ANTH 329 01 3061 ECON 225T 07 4034 HIST 307A 01 4152 MI 433 01 3773 soc 242 02 3083 ROSP 234 01 0525 
ANTH 382 01 3491 ECON 24AT 01 4037 HIST 312 01 4153 MI 486 01 3776 soc 300 01 0521 ROSP 310 01 1960 ANTH 389 01 3493 ECON 24AT 02 4038 HIST 320A 01 3620 MI 525 01 3780 soc 302 01 2941 soc 242 02 3083 ANTH 390 01 3153 ECON 24AT 03 4039 HIST 326A 01 3622 MSCI 211 02 1559 soc 303 01 3065 THEO 260 02 3972 ANTH 431 01 3495 ECON 24AT 04 4040 HIST 333A 01 3624 MUS 220 01 2456 soc 332 01 2947 
_,_____ 
Thursday, April27, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 18 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Braves' win scarred McRae leads Cubs to victory 
By JOE KAY 
Associated Press 
by low attendance 
By ED SHEARER 
Associated Press 
ATlANTA 
Fred McGriff was disap­pointed in only one aspect of the best season-opening start he's ever had. 
"I was expecting a few more fans," McGriff said after he homered twice and drove in five runs Wednesday, leading Greg Maddux and the Atlanta Braves over San Francisco 12-5 before a crowd of only 24,091. 
"It wasn't the 50,000 like I usually see here," McGriff said. "But the ones that were here cheered for us." 
There were 32,045 tickets sold, but there were thousands of no-shows. The Braves, who averaged 4 7,000 per game last season, drew their smallest opening-day crowd since 18,527 watched in 1991. 
The crowd included Felicia Shotkoski, widow of Braves replacement pitcher Dave Shotkoski, shot and killed in an attempted robbery during spring training. 
She attended at the invita­tion of the Braves. 
McGriff was a little surprised that he turned in a 4-for-5 day, helping Maddux pick up the victory. 
"I hadn't been swinging the bat that well in spring train­ing," he said. "Before the game I was wishing I had a few more days to work on my swing. I 
tried a few things different, but CINCINNATI I can't tell you what they Jim Bullinger pitched six were." shutout innings and Brian McGriff combined with David 
McRae had three hits as the Justice for consecutive home Chicago Cubs beat the runs in the eighth inning. The Cincinnati Reds 7-1 Wednesday Braves finished with 17 hits, on a subdued opening day in including six in a row to start one of baseball's most tradi­the game against losing pitcher tional cities. 
Terry Mulholland. Bullinger, making his first Maddux, the three-time Cy opening-day start, gave up just Young winner, retired the first five hits and escaped his most 
11 batters. He pitched five in­serious threat by getting Ron nings and allowed only/one hit. Gant to hit into a double play with the bases loaded in the SAN FRAN ATLANTA third. ab r h bi ab r h bi 
Barry Larkin homered off
DLewis cl 4 1 0 0 Grssom cf 6 1 1 0 AbTpsn ?b 4 1 2 3 Blauser ss 4 2 2 0 Mike Perez in the eighth, end­Bondli)L 3 Q.O, 0 CpJnes 3b 5 3 2 2 
ing the shutout. 
MaWim3b 4 0 1 1 McGrll1b 53 4 5 GHillrl 400 0 Justice rl 4 2 3 2 McRae, traded by Kansas City Phillips 1b 4 1 1 1 JLopezc 4 0 1 0 
to Chicago earlier this month,
Clayton ss 4 0 0 0 MKellyK 4 0 0 0 Mnwmc 400 0 Lemke 2b 50 1 0 had a triple, single and an RBI Mlhllnd p 0 0 0 0 GMddxp 2 1 2 0 
double that capped a four-run
JeAeed ph 1 0 0 0 DwSmtph 1 0 0 0 Torres p 000 0 Wodallp 1 0 1 1 sixth inning. Scrsone ph 111 0 Stanton p 0 0 0 0 
It was another big opener
Gomezp 000 0 Whlers p 000 0 Deweyp 0 0 0 0 Oliva ph 0 0 0 0 from a Cubs center fielder: Pttrson ph 111 0 Clontz p 0 0 0 0 
TufTy Rhodes hit three homers
Butista p 000 0 Totals 34 56 5 Totals 411217 10 off Dwight Gooden in last year's 
San Francisco 000 012 020-5 Atlanta 420 100 14x-12 
E-MaWilliams (1), Clayton (1), Blauser (1). DP-San Francisco 1. LOB-San Francisco 3. Atlanta 10. 2B-MaWilliams (1), Grissom (1), 
APPLY NOW...
Blauser (1), Justice (1). HA-AbThompson (1), Phillips (1), McGriff 2 (2), Justice (1). IP H AEABBSO San Francisco Mulholland L,0·1 2 8 6 5 1 1 
Join the Culture Club (Get in touch with Torres 3 3 1 1 2 1 Gomez 1 0 1 1 1 2 Dewey 1 2 0 0 0 2 Bautista 1 4 4 4 1 1 AUanta 
your karma chameleon). GMaddux W,1.Q 5 1 1 1 1 5 Woodall 21·3 4 4 2 0 0 Stanton 1·3 1 0 0 0 0 Wohlers 1·3 0 0 0 0 0 
Apply for CllllDfl fi2TS commissioner in 
Clontz 1 0 0 0 0 1 
the Student Union Board. 

Get an appli~ation in the SUB office *applications due Monday, May 1 * 
LAFAYETTE SQUARE 
T 0 W N H 0 M E S 


NEWLY REMODELED 
•
NEW CARPETS 

•
NEW TILE FLOORS 

• 
COMPLETE REPAINTING OF EVERY UNIT 


AND MUCH MORE I 
opener. 
Chicago's ninth straight win in a road opener also made Jim Riggleman a winner in his first game managing the Cubs. 
Jose Rijo, who didn't allow a run all spring, gave up six hits and five runs in 5 1-3 innings to fall to 1-2 on opening day. 
There was little of the usual opening-day electricity in the home of baseball's first profes­sional team. 
The Reds sold 51,033 tickets, but there were thousands of empty seats at Riverfront Stadium on a sunny, 65-degree afternoon. 
• The Reds took the field to a mix of boos and cheers, and a small plane circled the stadium in the first inning trailing a banner that said: "Owners & Players: To Hell With All Of You." 
The crowd seemed disinter­ested throughout and began fil­ing out after the Cubs went ahead 5-0 in the sixth. 
Wilkins and Hernandez ex­changed words and the bench­es started to clear, but home plate umpire Jim Garman got between the pitcher and batter while the base umpires raised their arms and convinced play­ers to return to their benches without a fight. 
CHICAGO CINCINNATI 
ab r h bi ab r h bi McRae cl 50 3 1 DSndrs ct 4 0 1 0 Snchez 2b 4 1 1 0 Larl<in ss 3 1 2 1 Sosa rt 4 1 1 0 Morris 1b 3 0 0 0 Grace 1b 51 3 1 Gant K 3 0 1 0 Wilkinsc 3 2 1 0 XHrndz p 000 0 Dnston ss 4 0 0 0 LHrris ph 1 0 0 0 Bechele 3b 4 1 1 2 JAuffin p 000 0 Bullen If 200 0 Boone 2b 4 0 1 0 Timmons II 0 1 0 1 Sntlago c 400 0 Bllngerp 1 0 0 1 ASndrs rl 4 0 1 0 MPerez p 000 0 WGme3b 4 0 1 0 Aijop 200 0 McEiry p 000 0 Howard II 1 0 0 0 Totals 32 710 6 Totals 33 1 7 1 
Chicago 010 004 110-7 Cincinnati 000 000 010-1 
E-Morris (1). DP-Chicago 1, Cincinnati 2. LOB-Chicago 8, Cincinnati 7. 2B-McAae (1). 3B-McAae (1). HA-Larkin (1). SB-Sosa (1), DSanders (1 ), Larl<in 2 (2). S-Sanchez, Dunston. 
SF-Bullinger.  
IP  H  AEAB BSO  
Chicago  
Bullinger W,1.Q  6  5  0  0  2  2  
MPerez S,1  3  2  1  1  0  1  
Cincinnati  
RijoL,Q.1  51·3  6  5  4  2  4  
McElroy  2-3  1  0  0  1  0  
XHemandez  2  2  2  2  2  0  
JAullin  1  1  0  0  1  1  

ADVANTAGES WE OFFER 
•FOUR AND FIVE BEDROOM TOWNHOMES 
·WASHER AND DRYER IN EVERY APARTMENT 
·DISHWASHER 
•
CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING 

•
ADT SECURITY SYSTEMS •24-HOURMAINTENANCE 


~NOW OFFERING FURNISHED UNITS~ UNITS STILL AVAILABLE 
Thursday, April27, 1995 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
The Notre Dame Alumni Association 
Invites all Notre Dame students to break from studies and come to 
The All-Class Alumni Picnic In Honor of the Class of '95 
When: Saturday, April 29, 1995 Time: 11:00 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. Where: Stepan Center Field 
~'~soc. 
!'.~~.0
......
< :I 

The Event will be attended by members of the National Alumni Association Board of Directors and Alumni Club representatives from all over the country! 
Food, Beverages, Music, and Fun! 
• 
Give-Aways for Seniors 

• 
Off-Campus Seniors ... Lunch is on us! 


We hope to see you there! 
~---~ 
page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, April27, 1995 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBAll 
Canseco comes up big for Red Sox 9-0 
By HOWARD ULMAN Associated Press 
BOSTON 
Bases loaded. Game still up for grabs. A perfect situation for Jose Canseco, the new hero for the Boston Red Sox. 
And he came through for the supportive opening-day crowd Wednesday. 
He hit a two-run single, send­ing the Red Sox toward a 9-0 win over the Minnesota Twins. The fans cheered so loudly, it seemed they had forgotten any animosity they might have had toward the former strikers. 
"I thrive on those types of sit­uations," said Canseco, ob­tained in an offseason trade with Texas. "I want to be put in that situation every at bat" 
Cleanup hitter Mo Vaughn, the second part of Boston's new one-two power punch, followed with a two-run double during a seven-run sixth inning, and the full house grew even more rau­cous. 
"It's exciting," Vaughn said. "You start playing well here they (the fans) forget about anything." 
The crowd of 32,980 at the 
first Fenway Park game in 262 
days was announced as a sell­
out, though there were about 
1,000 no-shows. Tickets for all 
home games in April are half­
price. 
The hitting of Canseco and 
Vaughn-both went 2-for-4­
overshadowed the one-hit 
pitching of Aaron Sele and the 
four hits of Mike Greenwell, 
who likes the lack of pressure 
after being dropped from the 
heart of the order last season 
to the sixth spot. 
"My face hurts a lot because 
I'm always smiling," he said. 
It wasn't a happy opening 
day for the Twins. They man­
aged just leadoff singles by 
Kevin Maas in the fifth and 
Scott Leius in the eighth 
against five Boston pitchers. 
And Roger Clemens wasn't 
even one of them. 
He missed his first opening­
day start in eight years with a 


~~­-- Wed~~~wnsNow $75-$485  
'. . .  ,  Bridesmaid  
·  .·  .' ·  Dresses  
g.­ 1  Now $45-$85  
In Stock Sizes 2-44  

·W~N2t~:,17V•EIL· rm 
GREiA~s il 
Lon1.d in 1M pink t-c~ S 
314 W. LaSalle, South Bend • Open Mon. -Sat. 

Don'l forgel to send your usable items to St Vincent de Paul • books dishes, pots. pans. clothing: furniture, appliances, beds. bedding, etc. Your discards "Help Us Help Others". For pick-up on campus call 234-6000 or use our donation box located behind the Book Store. 
strained right shoulder that sent him to the disabled list. He stayed behind at Boston's spring training site at Fort Myers, Fla. 
So Sele (1-0) got the first opening-day start of his career. 
"He took Clemens' spot and went right out there and shut us down," Minnesota manager Tom Kelly said. "Sele's pretty good. I wouldn't want to face him every day." 
The Red Sox made it a long day for the Twins by sending 13 batters to the plate in the sixth. 
But'·Puckett ·seemed to enjoy the reception from the fans. 
"People were talking to me out there," he said. "It was a good day, couple of fights (in the stands). Fenway Park, man." 
Sele pitched brilliantly, throwing only 65 pitches in five innings, allowing one hit and one walk. Only four of the 17 batters he faced got the ball into the outfield. 
Scott Erickson (0-1) allowed run-scoring singles to Greenwell and Vaughn in 4 2-3 innings. He lost his last five de­cisions in the strike-shortened 1994 season. 
Canseco, one of 18 Red Sox who were not on the team last season, singled to center in his first at bat for Boston. 
MINNESOTA BOSTON 
ab r h bi ab r h bi Knblch 2b 3 0 0 0 Alicea 2b 4 2 2 0 ACole cl 2 0 0 0 JnVIntn ss 4 1 1 0 Puckett rl 4 0 0 0 Cnsecodh 4 1 2 2 PMunz dh 4 0 0 0 MVghn 1b 4 1 2 3 Maas 1b 3 0 1 0 Whitenrl 4 2 1 0 Cordva ~ 3 0 0 0 Gmwll~ 50 4 2 Lelus 3b 3 0 1 0 Mclrlnec 2 1 0 0 Meares ss 3 0 0 0 Nhring 3b 4 0 1 1 Wlbeckc 3 0 0 0 Tinsley cl 51 1 1 Totals 28 0 2 0 Totals 36 914 9 
Minnesota 000 000 000-{) Boston 010 017 OOx-9 
E-Naehrlng (1). DP-Minnesota 1. LOB-Minnesota 4, Boston 12. 2B~MVaughn (1), Greenwell (1). 3B-JnValentin (1). SB~Tinsley (1). S-ACole, Naehring. 
IP  H  RERBBSO  
Minnesota  
Erickson L,0·1  42-3  7  2  1  2  3  
Guthrie  2-3  0  0  0  0  1  
Willis  1·3  2  5  5  3  0  
Horsman  0  2  2  2  1  0  
Sanford  21·3  3  0  0  1  2  
Boston  
SeleW,1·0  5  1  0  0  1  2  
FRodriguez  1  0  0  0  0  0  
APena  1  0  0  0  0  2  
Pierce  1  1  0  0  0  2  
KRyan  1  0  0  0  1  1  

COAJ 11 is afive credit-hour course that will meet from 
6:30 to 8:3 0 p.m. Monday through Thursday, June 2 0 through August 1 
Notre Dame students may DART into this class by call no. 4235 after May 8. 
This intensive introductory course will cover the first eight lessons of Introduction to Modem Japanese. Students will concentrate on speaking and listening while learning how to read and write Japanese. Upon completion of this course, students will be ready to begin the second semester of First Year Japanese in the spring of 19 9 6. No prior knowledge of Japanese is required. 
University of Notre Dame The Summer Session Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)631-7282 

Are you graduating and want to get rid of college items? Are you moving off campus and need extra furniture? Are you looking for additional supplies to fill your dorm? 
BE A PART OF THE RUMMAGE SALE!! 
fURNITURE 
SELL OR BUY 
HOYSEHtllJ) Y#Ai\E 
srEPAN CENTER 
DROP OFF: APRIL29 SALE: APRIL 30 12:00-5:00 11:00-5:00 
$1 from each sale made as well as all items not sold will be donated to a charitable organization to be named later. 



Thursday, April 27, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Play it and they may not come Smallest crowd in 
Associated Press 
.Jose Canseco chatted with fans and signed autographs for 15 minutes after batting prac­tice at Fenway Park. 
Players caught pitches from Little Leaguers at County Stadium, and several Brewers threw their caps into the stands. 
Hed Sox rooters got into Fenway for half-price and were welcomed by a "Thanks Fans!" sign on the centerfield score­board. 
In an effort to win back fans angered by the 7 1/2-month baseball strike, players and teams made a number of good­will gestures on the opening afternoon of the season Wndnesday. 
Not everyone was satisfied, and it showed in the attendance figures. Atlanta and Kansas Gity both drew slightly more than 24,000 fans, and Milwaukee had its smallest opening crowd at County Stadium since 1973. 
In Cincinnati, a plane flew over Riverfront Stadium with a banner that read: "Owners & Players: To Hell With All Of You." 
In Boston, a woman carried a sign outside Fenway Park that proclaimed: "They Will Strike Again, I Know. Hell, No. I Won't Go." She said she was a season ticketholder who was boy­cotting the opener against Minnesota to protest the strike. 
"If they strike again, they can have my seats, my tickets and I'll open my own baseball team in Boston," she said. 
However, most fans were in a forgiving mood. 
"I was for the owners but the strike is over, so let's forget about it," Brewers fan Steve Calmes said at the Milwaukee­Chicago White Sox game. 'Til be back all summer." 
Charlie Simms, who watched Kansas City's opener against Baltimore at Kauffman Stadium, said even bitter fans will eventually return to the 
twenty years watches Brewers rout Sox 12-3 
THE FIRST ANNUAL NOTRE DAME-ST. MARY'S BIG BROTHER/BIG SISTER CONCERT BENEFIT 
Sunday April 30th 7:00p.m. Washington Hall 
FEATURING: 
MICHAEL GEORGE MCGLINN 
SPECIAL GUESTS: 
EMILY LORD KEVIN FLEMING JUDY HUTCHINSON BETSY SMITH AND FRIENDS THE KEVIN BURKE BAND JIM MCKIERNAN 
AND MUCH MORE ... 
Tickets available at: LaFortune Info. Desk $3.00 Students $4.00 General Public 
Summer Internships: VECTOR INTERNATIONAL 
is accep~ng applications for summer openings at 2851ocations across the U.S. All maiors Freshman-Senior. Scholarships availablel 6 previous scholarships awarded to Notre Dame Studentsl For lnfonnation Contact: 
SOUTH BEND 282-2357 • FORT WAYNE 471-6133 BLOOMINGTON 349-4034 •lAFAYEITE 447-1812 MUNCIE 289-7345 •INDIANAPOUS 767-5416 EVANSVIllE 474-5722 • MERRJLlVIllf 769-2352 
sport they love. 
"People get remarried every day. This will be no different," he said. "If the Royals are in the World Series, you'll find 200,000 people who'll swear they were here on opening day to support the team." 
There was a mixture of cheers and boos when players were introduced at many stadi­ums, with non-players getting the biggest applause in New York, Kansas City, Boston and Milwaukee. 
At Fen way, there was a 30­second standing ovation for Jim Rice, the former Sox slugger and current batting coach. 
At Yankee Stadium, Joe DiMaggio received the warmest welcome when he threw out a ceremonial first ball. Mayor Rudolph Giuliani and Gov. George Pataki also threw out first pitches, but they got Bronx cheers. 
The most popular man at Kauffman Stadium was long­time groundskeeper George Toma, who wore a tuxedo and was driven in from the bullpen in a pink Cadillac to throw out 
By ARNIE STAPLETON 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE 
Before the smallest opening day crowd at County Stadium since 1973, John Jaha hit a grand slam and Pat Listach had three hits and three RBis Wednesday as the Milwaukee Brewers routed the Chicago White Sox 12-3. 
Brewers owner Bud Selig, baseball's acting commissioner, blamed the small turnout of 31,426 on bad weather-it was in the upper 40S With ·driz­zling rain -and on fans' feel­ings following the strike. 
"After 8 1/2 months, it's something that's going to hap­pen," Selig said. "We got a lot of work ahead of us. It'll take some time and we're not un­derestimating that." 
It was the first time in 17 years that County Stadium drew less than 50,000 for open­ing day. Last year's crowd was 52,012 despite a record-low temperature of 31 degrees with 29 mph wind and snow flurries. 
The loudest cheers went to Robin Yount-who retired lat year and served as an honorary coach -60 Little Leaguers who threw out frrst pitches, and the grounds crew for tackling a fan who sprinted across the field in the fourth inning in just a stocking cap and red swim­ming trunks. 
After the players were intro­duced, about half the Brewers trotted to the outfield and tossed their caps into the bleachers. 
Angel Miranda gained the victory, allowing one hit in 2 2­3 shutout innings of relief. He struck out three and walked one. 
Listach had two singles, a double and a sacrifice in the leadoff spot. The AL Rookie of the Year in 1992, he was side­lined most of the last two sea­sons with injuries, coinciding with the Brewers' plunge to consecutive last-place finishes. 
Jaha, playing because Dave Nilsson is sidelined for two months with Ross River Fever. hit a two-out, 0-2 offering from Alex Fernandez in the first for his first career grand slam and a 4-1 lead. 
Milwaukee added four un­earned runs off Fernandez, who gave up five hits and walked five in 2 2-3 innings. 
Milwaukee made it 6-1 in the second. Fernandez threw the ball into the right-field corner on Listach's bunt, allowing Jose Valentin to score from first. Listach scored on Greg Vaughn's double-play grounder. 
Listach chased Fernandez in the third with a two-out, two­run single following shortstop Ozzie Guillen's throwing error. He added an RBI single off Scott Ruffcorn in the fifth. 
Turner Ward hit a two-run homer otT Isidro Marquez in the sixth for a 12-2 lead. 
Milwaukee starter Ricky Bones allowed two earned runs and five hits in 4 1-3 innings. He walked four and struck out none. 
CHICAGO MILWAUKEE 
ab r h bl ab r h bl Drhm 2b 4 1 1 0 Llstach 2b 323 3 Raines H 50 2 0 Vlna 2b 1 0 0 0 Thmas 1b 3 0 1 0 Hmtton cl 50 2 1 Sabo dh 4 0 0 1 Mieske rl 000 0 Vntura 3b 2 2 1 0 Seltzer3b 4 1 1 0 Ovrauxrl 400 0 GVghn dh 50 1 0 Whnsn cl 300 0 May H 3 1 0 0 Krkvce c 3 0 1 1 Hulse H 1 0 0 0 Newson ph 0 0 0 0 Jaha 1b 3 1 1 4 Martin ss 000 0 Cirillo 3b 2 1 1 0 Guillen ss 4 0 1 1 TWard rl 2 3 1 2 Lyonsc 000 0 Oliverc 3 1 1 0 Mtheny c 000 0 JsVIntn ss 3 2 1 0 Totals 32 3 7 3 Totals 351212 10 
Chicago 100 100 010-3 Milwaukee 422 022 oox-12 
E-Oevereaux (1), Guillen (1). Al'ernandez (1). OP-Chicago 2. Milwaukee 1. LOB-Chicago 10. Milwaukee 7. 28-Ventura (1). Karkovlce (1). Guillen (1). HR-Jaha (1). TWard (1). SB-TWard (1). S-Ustach. SF-8abo. 
IP  H  RERBBSO  
Chicago  
AFemandez L.0·1  2 2-3  5  8  4  5  1  
Hammaker  1-3  0  0  0  0  0  
RuHcom  1 2·3  2  2  2  2  3  
Marquez  1 1·3  3  2  2  0  3  
Fortugno  1  1  0  0  0  0  
Radlnsky  1  1  0  0  0  0  
Milwaukee  
Bones  4 1-3  5  2  2  4  0  
Miranda W .Hl  2 2·3  1  0  0  1  3  
Kiefer  2  1  1  1  2  2  


.. 
,17;1 fll t $FAT£ l!~fOIIf b Pl.1 
• tlO PASSb ~UPlll~AI'tl1; I•(.([PTE[) 
the first pitch. 
But a 35-year-old Royals fan, Bryan Kuhn, also got a big cheer after he caught a foul ball, and then threw it back on the field. 
"That was just my way of saying, 'Hey, here's one back at you,"' Kuhn said. "I figured with all the money both sides whine about losing during the strike, they probably needed it more than I do." 
And at County Stadium, fans gave the biggest pregame ova­tion to retired Brewers star Robin Yount, an honorary coach for the team's opener. 
We're Cheap. And Easy. 
Why pay more for the "convenience" of on-cam­pus shipping when BoxesPius doesn't raise its year end prices and has free pick-up at your dorm or apartment? Boxes plus can pack and ship anything. Cheaply and Easily. 
B~XESPLUS 
You can also buy your boxes & shipping materials at BoxesPius 5622 Grape Rd. Wilshire Plaza Mishawaka 
277-5555 
%e 9{{Jtre tJJame 
Cofkgium Musicum 
in a program of 
Seventeentfi-Centurg Music 
• Claudio Monteverdi • Heinrich Schiltz • • Johann Hermann Schein • Jacques Hotteterre le Romain • • Johann Jakob Froberger • 
with guest artists 8:00p.m. '])arf.ene Cate{{o, frarpsicfwrtf Thursday, April 27 Werufy Wilfis, 6aroquej(ute Annenberg Auditorium 'Denise 'l(JJehner, cello The Snite Museum of Art 
r-­
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, April 27, 1995 
:­
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Cooper's clutch Fans greater foe for Pirates 
By AlAN ROBINSON fan favorite Jay Bell, the NL curred.
hits lead Cardinals 
Associated Press player representative, and Fassero (1-0), who was one 
over Phillies, 7-6 
By R.B. FALLSTROM 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS 
·Scott Cooper, traded to St. Louis from Boston earlier this month, singled home the tying and winning runs as the Cardinals rallied from five runs down for an opening-night 7-6 victory over Philadelphia on Wednesday night. 
Cooper, a lifelong St. Louis resident acquired from Boston during spring training, finished with three hits and four RBis in his first game for the Cardinals. 
St. Louis victimized Norm Charlton (0-1), who missed all of last season after undergoing elbow surgery. 
Bernard Gilkey led off the ninth with a single, and Charlton walked Ozzie Smith and Ray Lankford on four pitches. 
Cooper followed with a sin­gle, and Smith scored the win­ning run from second on a close play; making a winner of reliever Rene Arocha. 
Home runs by Dave Hollins and Tony Longmire helped the Phillies take a 5-0 lead in the top of the third and a 6-5 lead into the ninth. But they failed to make it three straight open­ing-day victories, all on the road. The game drew a crowd of 32,573, well below the turnout of 46,947 last season, on a rainy night at Busch Stadium. 
The Cardinals lost their sec­ond second baseman in three days. Manny Lee started in place of Geronimo Pena, who injured his right hamstring running out a ground-rule dou­ble in an exhibition game Monday. 
But Lee left in the fourth after he sprained his right ankle fielding a grounder on wet artificial turf an inning ear­lier. 
The fans were generally well­behaved aside from booing Phillies left fielder Gregg Jefferies, who played two years in St. Louis before signing a free-agent deal with Philadelphia in the offseason. 
They also let go with a sarcastic cheer when Cardinals starter Ken Hill finally retired a batter after letting the first five men reach base in the Phillies' five-run third. 
Hollins, who had one RBI in spring training, homered to cap the third as the Phillies gave Curt Schilling a 5-0 lead. 
Hill rejoined the Cardinals af­ter three seasons in Montreal, and he pitched more like the pre-Expos Hill than the player who was tied for the league lead with 16 victories last year. 
Smith drew a huge cheer when he performed his tradi­tional opening-day backflip, but a team of eight Clydesdale horses pulling a Budweiser beer wagon, another tradition at Busch Stadium, caused a stir when one of the horses created a large skid mark in right field. 
MONTREAL PITTSBURGH 
ab r h bi ab r h bi Lnsing 2b 51 1 1 Brmfldcf 302 0 Floyd 1b 3 1 2 0 RMnzlo p 000 0 RKellycf 4 1 1 1 Micelip 0 0 0 0 Alou rf 3 1 1 0 Sasser ph 1 0 0 0 DFichrc 3 1 2 1 Garcia 2b 3 0 0 1 Spehrc 0 0 0 0 Martin If 4 0 0 0 Crdero ss 4 0 0 0 King 3b 4 0 0 0 Trsco If 4 0 2 0 JBell ss 3 1 1 1 Berry3b 2 1 0 0 Merced rf 4 0 1 0 Andrws 3b 0 0 0 0 Aude 1b 3 0 0 0 Fssero p 1 0 0 0 Jhnson 1b 1 0 0 0 AWhile ph 1 0 0 0 Parente 3 1 1 0 Shawp 0 0 0 0 lieberp 1 0 0 0 Aquino p 0 0 0 0 Chrstns p 0 0 0 0 Evrsgr p 0 0 0 0 Pegues ph 1 0 0 0 Scottp 1 0 0 0 MMddxp 0 0 0 0 
Cmngs rf 2 0 1 0 Totals 31 6 9 3 Totals 33 2 6 2 
Montreal 010 050 00~ 
Pittsburgh 000 100 100-2 
E-Cordero (1), King (1), Merced (1), Christiansen (1 ). DP-Pittsburgh 1. LOB-Montreal 4, Pittsburgh 8. 2B-Lansing (1), Tarasco (1). HR--OFietcher (1), JBell (1). CS-Aiou (1), Cordero (1), Berry (1), Brumfield (1). S--Fassero. 
IP  H  RERBBSO  
Montreal  
Fassero W,1-0 5  4  1  1  1  5  
Shaw  12-3  2  1  1  1  1  
Aquino  0  0  0  0  1  0  
Eversgerd  2-3  0  0  0  1  0  
Scott  12-3  0  0  0  0  1  
Pittsburgh  
Lieber L,Q-1  42-3  7  6  6  2  4  
Christiansen  1-3  1  0  0  0  1  
MMaddux  2  1  0  0  0  
RManzanillo  1  0  0  0  0  
Miceli  1  0  0  0  1  

Aquino pitched to 1 batter in the 7th. 
GET YOUR TICIIETS NOW!! 
From Saturday Night Live and Tommy Boy 

AVID SPADE 
Friday Night 8:00PM Stepan Center $3 Admission 
Brought to you by: Student Union Board & Student Activities 
PITTSBURGH 
It was hard to tell whether the Pittsburgh Pirates had more trouble with their fans or the Montreal Expos. 
They both turned on the Pirates during Wednesday night's opener, a 6-2 win by Montreal that was delayed for 17 minutes when the crowd pelted the field with wooden pennant sticks. 
Darrin Fletcher homered, Jeff Fassero pitched five effective innings and Roberto Kelly came around to score on his own infield single in a bizarre, error-filled fifth inning that led to the debris tossing. 
Despite the city's reputation as a strong union town, the strike generated considerable hostility in Pittsburgh, where 30,000 bought tickets for the canceled replacement opener. 
Wednesday's crowd of 34,841 -nearly 10,000 fewer than the 44,074 who watched the Pirates' 1994 home opener ­clearly was angry with that strike, and even the pregame news that the Pirates may soon be sold didn't cheer them up. 
The fans loudly jeered former 
Baseball 
continued from page 28 
Notre Dame ran themselves out of a rally in the sixth. Craig DeSensi led off the inning with a double, but was thrown out trying to reach third on Scott Sollmann's grounder in the hole. 
Mike Amrhein singled to ad­vance Sollmann, and he scored 
threatened to turn ugly in the fifth as three errors by the Pirates' usually stable defense gave them an excuse to vent their post-strike anger_ 
With the Expos leading 2-1, Kelly's infield single was thrown away first by third baseman Jeff King and then by right fielder Orlando Merced, allowing three runs to score. Kelly ended up scoring himself as Merced's off-line throw bounced away from catcher Mark Parent. 
The fans booed at first, then began tossing wooden sticks connected to free souvenir flags, quickly covering the area around the two dugouts and the outfield warning track. Bell, clearly angry with the display, was the first player to leave the field. 
As grounds crew members and security guards gathered the sticks, the fans were warned any additional delay could result in a forfeit. 
The fans booed that an­nouncement, and continued to boo occasionally after play re­sumed, but with additional se­curity guards assigned to the field, no other incidents oc­
an a Ryan Topham single. However, Amrhein recorded the second out of the inning at­tempting to reach third. George Restovich struck out looking to end the inning. 
Freshman Christian Parker picked up his fourth loss of the year, lasting five innings and allowing six hits. He surren­dered four earned runs. 
Justin Gleichowski and Garrett Carlson got mop-up 
check-in and check-out. And a 24-hour Roadside Assistance Line for help along the way. 
Plus, your Student ID entitles you to special savings! So put your education to good use and call l-800-GO-RYDER (467-9337). 
South Bend South Bend South Bend RTR Jack's Trailer Sales Ciras Marathon 2715 N. Bendix Dr. 51370 U.S. 33 North 1914 S. Miami St. (219) 277-3550 (219) 277-9799 (219) 289-6721 
out away from a no-hitter against Pittsburgh last June, allowed a run-Bell's solo homer in the fourth -and four hits in five innings. 
MONTREAL PITTSBURGH 
ab r h bl abrh bi lnsing2b 51 1 1 Brmfldcf 302 0 Floyd 1b 3 1 2 0 RMnzlop 000 0 RKellycf 4 1 1 1 Micelip 000 0 Alou rf 3 1 1 0 Sasser ph 1 0 0 0 DFichrc 3 1 2 1 Garcia2b 3 0 0 1 Spehrc 000 0 Martini! 400 0 Crdero ss 4 0 0 0 King3b 400 0 Trsco If 4 0 2 o JBellss 3t 1 1 Berry 3b 2 1 0 0 Mercedrf 401 0 Andrws 3b 000 0 Aude1b 3 0 0 0 Fssero p 1 0 0 0 Jhnson 1b 1 0 0 0 RWhneph 1 0 0 0 Parent c 3 1 1 0 Shawp 0 0 0 0 lieberp 100 0 Aquino p 000 0 Chrstns p 0 0 0 0 Evrsgr p 000 0 Pegues ph 1 0 0 0 Scottp 1 0 0 0 MMddxp 000 0 
Cmngs rf 2 0 1 0 Totals 31 6 9 3 Totals 33 2 6 2 
Montreal 010 050 00~ Pittsburgh 000 100 10(}-2 
E-Cordero (1), King (1), Merced (1). Christiansen (1 ). DP-Pittsburgh 1. LOB­Montrea14, Pittsburgh 8. 26-lansing (1), Tarasco (1). HR--OFietcher (1). JBell (1). CS-Aiou (1). Cordero (1), Berry (1), Brumfield (1). S--Fassero. 
IP  H  R ER BB SO  
Montreal  
Fassero W.1-0 5  4  1  1  1  5  
Shaw  1 2-3  2  1  1  1  
Aquino  0  0  0  0  0  
Eversgerd  2-3  0  0  0  1  0  
Scott  1 2-3  0  0  0  0  1  
Pittsbui'Qh  
Lieber L,Q-1  4 2-3  7  6  6  2  4  
Christiansen  1-3  1  0  0  0  
MMaddux  2  1  0  0  0  
RManzanillo  1  0  0  0  0  
Miceli  0  0  0  1  1  

Aquino pitched to 1 batter in the 7th. 
duty out of the bullpen_ Gleichowski gave up one hit in one inning. Carlson went three innings, allowing one earned run, three hits and striking out five. 
The Irish get a chance to re­bound tomorrow, as Eastern Illinois comes to town for a 
5:00 p.m. match at the Eck. Notre Dame has lost four games at home all year, and has only lost back-to-hack games twice. 
You could rent 
any truck. 
Then .in,you
couldve one 
to anysc ool. 

There are thousands of colleges out there. Fortunately, you made a good choice. Now make the right choice when you leave. Rent a truck from 
Ryder. 
Ryder makes your move easy. With a convenient toll-free reservation number. Clean, reliable vehicles that are easy to load and drive. Fast processing to speed up 
We're there when you need us. 
South Bend Mishawaka Tom's Car Care Jaccar Inc. 3201 Sugar Maple Ct 1714 East 12th St. (219) 288-0316 (219) 255-4417 
Thursday, April 27, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 23 
•NBA •NCAA <· 
Pistons will announce Collins as new coach Wolverines 
By HARRY ATKINS 
Associated Press 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. 
Don Chaney and Billy McKinney are out with the Detroit Pistons, and Doug Collins is in. 
Chaney was fired as coach and McKinney resigned as vice president of player operations Wednesday. The jobs will be combined and handed to Collins, whose hiring was expected to be announced at a news conference Saturday. 
Pistons president Tom Wilson emphasized that Collins has yet to sign a contract. But he made it clear the former Chicago Bulls coach is leaving the broadcast booth to take charge of the Pistons. 
"He will have a lot of control, a good young team, and a chance to mold it in his image," Wilson said. "It's a good oppor­tunity for him. It appealed to him like it appealed to us." 
The delay in making it all offi­cial was caused by Collins' work schedule. 
A color commentator on TNT's NBA telecasts, Collins was in Atlanta on Wednesday for an NBA playoff preview, and at New York on Thursday and Charlotte on Friday for first-round playoff games. 
Speaking on TNT Wednesday night, Collins did not say he was the team's new coach. 
"There's been nothing final­ized," he said. "Right now, we're just talking." 
Collins, who reportedly will receive a five-year contract worth $6.5 million, compiled a 137-109 record in three sea­sons with Chicago before being fired in 1989. 
As a player, Collins was selected by Philadelphia with the first pick of the 1973 NBA draft. In eight seasons with the 76ers, he averaged 17.9 points a game and was an All-Star four consecutive years. 
"Doug is known as a good people-person," Wilson said. "He's a tactician, a workaholic, a driven person. He's a very good person to get. 
"I think we need energy, I really do. A real high energy level would be just the thing for us, to pick things up on the bench." 
Collins takes over a team that went 28-54 despite the addition of All-Star rookie Grant Hill. The new coach is well­acquainted with Hill, a Duke They have developed a good relationship." 
Collins, 43, will not have the title of general manager. But Wilson said his powers will be comparable to those of a coach­general manager, including responsibility for hiring a coaching staff and player per­sonnel director. 
"When it was apparent we were going to make a change, I sent out feelers," Wilson said. "In every single instance, peo­ple told us it looked like Doug Collins was the man we were looking for." 
Collins will become the Pistons' third coach in the last four years. The club is still pay­ing Ron Rothstetn~.~n~»!'lY's predecessor. who had three years remaining on his contract when he was fired at the end of the 1993 season. 
plead guilty 
Associated Presa 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 
Three University of Michigan football players pleaded guilty Wednesday to using a credit card without the owner's con­sent. 
William Carr, Marcus Ray and Sam Sword entered the pleas before District Judge Ann Mattson. They each face up to four years in prison and a $2,000 fine when sentenced June 6. 
According to reports, the three allegedly used another student's credit card to buy gasoline and less than $300 worth of merchandise April 1 at a mall. The three were caught when one store refused to honor the car. 

The Pan-African Culture Center of The University of Notre Dame Presents: 
An African Irish American Celebration 

A multicultural celebration that you must experience to believe. With ... •Trinity, America's number one school of Irish dance •Award winning Irish musicians out of Chicago • Seamaisin, Notre Dame's very own Irish band • Djo-Gbe, a transcultural ancient African dance, with internationally recognized Master African drummers and dancers •The 
African American Unity Ensemble, affiliated with the American Conservatory of Music, Chicago 
Vendors of ethnic clothing, books, 
jewelery, and imports will be selling 
their wares in outer lobby of the 
Hesburgh Library all day Thursday 
African and Irish Music and Dance Together Again 7:00PM, April 27th Washington Hall 
Tit:kets: Students and Senior Citizen $3.00 advance, $5.00 at the door. General Public $R.OO advance, $10.00 at the door. Tickets available through the Notre Dame Box Office, (2llJ) 631-8128. Reception to follow performance.Free workshops on the Quad of African and Irish Dance as pmt of AnTostal, 11:00 AM -12:00 PM, Thursday. Strive to enter into dialogue and make friends with someone else from a culture with which you have had no previous contact. 
.. 

page 24 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, April27, 1995 
Alook at the best 
Bookstore Basketball writers 
Tim Seymour and Dominic Amorosa 
size up this year's Sweet 16. 
No. 1 -Models INC. 
The original top seed remains in the driver's seat, dismissing swirling rumors that it would drop to as low as four. Models exudes confidence, as sometimes point guard Tracy Graham has issued the boldest statement of the tourney thus far: "I'm guaranteeing that Models will win Bookstore." . 
Strong words, but they have the talent to back it up, although Graham will not be proving himself anymore, as Renaldo Wynn will take over the duties of lone foot­ball player. That makes Models' frontcoui(th·e most fearsome in the tournament, but will put enormous pressure on Jason Williams, the team's lone handler. 
·"Renaldo will be a force up front," stated teammate Conrad James. "However, we may be too big to match up with some teams. Our zone will really have to come together, and we have to hit the glass hard." 
No.2-NBT II 
The returning champs were hoping to move into the top spot after a strong showing against a team led by football powerhouses Brian Hamilton and Lee Becton in the round of 128, but a lethargic victory against a mediocre Ezekial25:17 squad kept them at two. 
Despite this, NBT the sequel may still be the favorite down the stretch, largely due. to their fantastically mobile frontline of Ben Foos and Mark Zatavatski, both of whom can handle on the break as well as intimidat­ing inside. Point guard Tom Rinehart brings necessary court savvy, while 'guru' Joe Haigh lites up the outside. 
The key to NBT, however, is the play of vastly under­rated Brad Fish. "Fish has been quiet all the way through, but he scored nine in last year's fmal," said Haigh. "In a close game, he'll step up." 
No. 3 -Rebel Alliance 
Although it's hard to believe with a No. 3 seed, Rebel has been the forgotten team in the bracket, the team everyone picks to exit early. However, it's tough to count out Rebel's experience and size. 
The frontline of Pat Keaney, Brian McCarthy and Bryan Corbett is one of the deepest around, and their skill at interior passing makes it difficult to key on only one. This team's chances depend on the play of their guards -Joe Bergan must hit from the outside, and Jeff Goddard, who looks a step slow with his kneebrace, must play solid defense and distribute the ball well. 
"Last year we were hungrier, but the seed definitely affected us," stated Corbett. "However, all that is going to change now." 
No. 4 -Showtime 
Mter crushing DESIRE to reach the Sweet Sixteen, Showtime didn't display the emotion that has charac­terized other teams, but rather calmly prepared for the next game. They have been here before, and are on a mission to improve on last year's Final Four showing. 
The highest remaining team without a varsity ath­lete, the juniors from Stanford are flashy yet consis­tent. They work the ball around to the open man, and each one has a penchant for knocking down morale­breaking jumpers. Their success will be determined by three keys: can stopper Jason Hanley control op­ponent's scorers, can Matt Coles hold the paint against wider opponents, and can Jeff Enes hit the big shots? 
"We're five good friends, we have five different 
shirts, but we play one game," appraised Hanley. 
"That's the essence of Showtime." 
No. 5 DOS KLOSKAS 
.Being tested previously can help a team down the 
stretch, and DOS KLOSKAS certainly found out what 
they were made 
of, 
in the early rounds. 
KLOSKAS has 
balanced attack, 
tends to force the 
ball inside too often 
to Pete Coleman 
and Bert Berry, and 
then rely on Mike 
Kloska's shooting to 
bail them out. If the 
ball can be distrib­
uted more evenly 
around the perime-. 
ter to open up the inside, KLOSKAS could do some 
damage. 
"We need to get the ball inside," stated Coleman. 
No. 6 -Pink Sky in the Morning 
Everyone, sailors included, should take warning, 
because Pink Sky is motivated after having dropped in 
the rankings despite having mauled its competition. 
Pink Sky features a three guard set that traps in the 
halfcourt better than anyone in the tournament. 
LaRon Moore has been consistent from the outside in · 
recent games, while excitable Charlie Stafford is guar­
anteed to put on a show. 
Round 16 QuarterFinals 
1995
Stepan 2 Bookstore 
Bookstore Basketball 



"We fully expected to move up, but no matter what you do you're bound to play a good team to get there," explained Jean Joseph. "Intensity on defense will be key, and we have to force the tempo." 
No. 7 -C.C.E. 
Their plummet from the No. 4 spot was the biggest surprise in the draw, and since Lamarr Justice is ru­mored to be skipping this weekend's track meet to play Bookstore, C.C.E. fully intends to go to the fmals. 
Although everyone loves to hate them, twins Brian and Keith Ziolkowski have proven that their hard­nosed style wins games, and coupled with the smooth­ness of Justice, they run a suffocating press. Joe Link is a liability inside. 
"We know that we can play up to our potential," stat­ed Brian Ziolkowski. "We play hard, and people don't seem to respect that." 
No. 8 -Hood River Bandits The Bandits had the most difficult road to the Sweet Sixteen, overcoming two brutal games to march on. 
The Bandits are a finesse team that has shown gritty intensity· inside, as John Wynne has proven he can anchor the paint against bigger opponents. Watch out for silky forward Mike Martin, who possesses the best hesitation dribble move in the tournament. 
ng for the Elite Eight··The Picks 
. ,~ .::::=:~~F!t:: ·r~ .... 
"We had the worst case scenario getting here, with bad weather and bigger teams," stated guard Travis Smith. "We're a running team, but we've proven we're able to win in the half court." 
No. 9 -Sweeter than Candy 
Hailed as this year's Showtime, Candy has played with flair without being tested. They face a tough test in a matchup with a similar Hood River squad, but if they can advance they look to upset bigger game. 
Bryan "Rain Man" Hakala will finally get a chance to show off the skills that earned him a walk-on spot with Arizona State before he transferred to Notre Dame. The consummate pure shooter without an iota of con­science, Hakala has been known to pull up and drain the three despite having an unobstructed path. While defenses key on him, guards Kevin Ogradnick and Dan Rinehardt will have to relieve the pressure. 
"The weather should affect us more than most because we rely on our outside shooting," commented Hakala. "The inside guys need to play tough." 
No. 10-SWOOSH 
As hardnosed as they come, SWOOSH will need all of its moxie to combat the equally belligerent C.C.E. squad in what is billed as the best first round matchup. 
SWOOSH has four solid ball handlers, led by sopho­more sensation Jason Newcomer and scrappy guard Benedict Rocchio. Football lineman Darnell Smith roams the middle, displaying a deft touch around the basket, and the toughness to recover from a collision 
QuarterFinals Round 16 Bookstore Stepan 7 


with the supporting pole of the basket . 
"The game will definitely be decided as to whether we can solve their press," stated Rocchio. "Newcomer is our go-to guy, and if he comes up big, watch out." 
No. 11 -Prop. 48 
Big and physical in the paint, Prop. 48 manhandled softer Malicious Prosecution en route to a surprisingly easy victory, and earned respect. 
Hockey players John Rushin and ~rett Bruininks are guaranteed to control the boards, and Rushin is good fo~ ~ solid seven "Oii~side ofthe brack· 
potnts a game. ·· .. •i\>··w • Prop. 48 has been a ef iS loaded With four ;, surprise ?f sortsofthe original five "' 
because pomt guard. • Kevin Halfpenny hasNo one wants to play developed into an . offensive threat. NBTuntil the finals." 
"We've been pack-• ing in the zone, put -Joe Hatgh that might not work of NBT2 against their great shooters," explained Halfpenny. "We like to control break when we get the chance, but we also have to get back on defense." 
No. 12 -Diamondbacks 
This squad has gotten better. as the tournament has progressed, steadily adding pieces to the puzzle. Last night the final element was unveiled, as tigh( end Pete Chryplewicz joined the squad to solidify a convincing win over tenacious Bring out the Gimp. 
The Diamondbacks were stacked to begin with. Walk-on Kevin Ryan is a sharp shooter with deceiving strength underneath, while Dave Baker is a big game performer. Point guard Jimmy Keenan controls the tempo better than anyone in the tournament. 
"We were lacking a big man to match up with some of the other teams, and now we have Chryplewicz," stated Ryan. 
No. 13 We're the Truth 
This team didn't exist in yesterday's Observer. A scorekeeper error had the wrong team advancing to the round of 32. However, after receiving help from the early round upsets, the Truth knocked off a senior laden Your Mamma's squad to reach sixteen. 
Led by freshman point guard Aden McCann, this team can shoot the outside jumper as well as anyone in the tournament. McCann's quickness and pene­tration opens up the outside for Chris WachteL 
Inside, Mike Denvir will have to bang bodies to com­pensate for this team's lack of side. 
"We have to hit jumpers to win," said McCann. 
No. 14 Arcola Broom Corn 
Last year, this team made sweet sixteen. Now, with the same contingent of Flanner residents, this team plays off their raucous crowd. High flying guard Mark Heider can create his own shot and dish the ball off inside to Mark Monohan. 
Sparkling uniforms and a player who wears under­wear on his head make this team fun to watch. Their scrappiness could cause problems for a higher seed. 
"We've played some tough games, and we realize it will only get tougher," said Monohan. 
No. 15 Woody & the Four Other Stiffs 
This year's Cinderella. A large crowd whoops it up for 5'5 point guard Jason 'Woody' Woodward and silky smooth shooter Charlie Gomez. 
The supporting cast of Ben Magnano and Andy Goodenow will have to continue to play intense defense for Woody's boys to compete. 
"We have a tough draw," said Mike Walsh. "We have to come out and play scrappy and intense." 
No.16 CASH 
This team could be the most athletic team left in the 
tournament, but lacks outside shooters.Guard Emmit 
Mosley can trash talk with the best of them and 
Derrick Mayes and Jarvis Edison crash the boards. 
The two lanky football stars proved their physical presence against Kerbdog, as Edison finished the game with a nasty cut above his eye. 
"We'll just have utilize our quickness," said Mosley. 
Thursday, April27, 1995 
Bookstore 
continued from page 28 
tried to keep his team together, but the StilTs never died. 
"They never quit and they played with a lot of heart," Vrdolyack said. "Bookstore is one of the best things that Notre Dame has to offer and people don't realize the sense of belonging it creates," he continued. "This campus is so competitive and this shows how many solid basketball players are at Notre Dame." 
"It's great to win against somebody that nobody expect­ed us to beat," said Woodward. "Cactus was a tough draw, but it's exciting to get to sixteen." 
"Teams like us work for wins like these," said Walsh. "In terms of heart and desire, we can match up with anybody." 
In the other upset of the day, Prop 48's size on the inside negated the speed of No. 10 Malicious Prosecution. 
"It wasn't really basketball." said Mike Chaney after the stunning 21-12 win. "It turned into slop and the conditions made a big diiTerence." 
Prop 48, led by hockey play­ers Brett Bruininks and John Hushin, controlled the boards on both ends of the court. The ice skating skills of the hockey slars might have provided a psychological advantage on the 
1 

ON 
America's Favorite 
WHO DONE IT? 
100% Audience Participation Show 
WIN CASH PRIZES T-SHIRTS SQUIRT GUNS 
Don't Miss All The Fun And Excitement 
A MURDER IS ABOUT TO HAPPEN ... 
Sponsored by: Flip Side, SADD & SUB LaFortune Ballroom-April 29, 10:00 p.m. Tickets at LaFortune Info Desk $5 for all ND/SMC students Call John (4-1410) or Mary (4-4904) w/any questions 
slippery surface. 
"Our size advantage helped us a lot," said Prop 48's Kevin Halfpenny. "The big men con­trolled the boards by boxing out so well." 
Malicious Prosecution, a perennial sweet 16 team, had a tough time adjusting to the courts and could not generate an oiTense. 
"The weather psyched us out and we had a hard time moving the ball," said Steve Mullery. "We're really disappointed in the outcome, and we feel like we let the Law School down." 
To loosen up the inside, the Prop 48 guards hit their out­side shots throughout the game as Halfpenny canned 7 buckets and Chaney chipped in with 5 points. 
"We definitely played our best game," said Chaney. "Our shooting was better than in the past and Bruno manhandled them inside." 
No. 15 Woody faces a daunt­ing task against No. 2 NBT2. 
"The crowds are the best part of these games," said Walsh. "Hopefully, they 'II still come out." 
No. 11 Prop 48 faces a light­ning quick No. 6 Pink Sky in the Morning team. 
"We must dictate the tempo or we'll be in big trouble," said Chaney. "They are much more athletic than us." 


page 25 
• BOOKSTORE 
BASKETBALL 
RESULTS -Models INC. def. Blitzkrieg 21-12 -NBT II def. Ezekiel 25:17 21-17 -Rebel Alliance def. Afrodeeziaks 21-13 -Showtime def. DESIRE 21-14 -DOS KLOSKAS def. 
Vanilla Kernels 21-16 -Pink Sky in the Morning def. Serial Kill a 21-1 0 
-C.C.E. def. Wooden Shoes 21-17 -Hood River Bandits def. Back for More 21-18 
-Sweeter Than Candy def. Dirty Brown Shoe 21-12 
-SWOOSH def. Nocturnal Rhythm 21­
19 . 
-Prop 48 def. Malicious Prosecution 21-12 
-Diamondbacks def. Bring Out the Gimp 21­14 
-We're the Truth and You Can't Handle the Truth def. Your Momma's Favorite Fivesome 21­15 
-Arcola Brromcorn Co. def. All the President's Men 23-21 
-Woody &4 Other Stiffs def. Cactus Jack's 22­
20 
-CASH def. Kerbdog 21­
19 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
ND/SMC SAILING CLUB ­The club will meet every Tuesday night at 7:00 p.m. at the boathouse. The meet­ing will primarily discuss rec ,teams for the weekend meet. ·Sweatshirts are now on sale. 
,. i 
SPECIAL OLYMPICS· Vol· ,unteers are needed to help with swimming on Tuesdays '','and Thursdays from 4:30­
5:30 p.m. at Rolfs Aquatic Center. For more informa­tion call coach Dennis Stark at 1·5983. 
':h:i}!&J, :ill :BlATHALON ~ .RecSports ·.will be offering a one-mile ,swim. <two-mile run biathalon August 26. Start training now and over the 
,~unune,rl ~ 
WEEKEND SPORTS live on WVFI 640 AM. Saturday ­,Blue tand Gold Game. Sun~: Bookstore Finals. 
TAE KWON oo.. This Thursday, April 27, is the last belt testing of the year. There is a pizza party Col· lowing the testing. To RSVP or for more information, call Laura at 4-2637 
NOTRE DAME MARTIAL ARTS INSTITUTE· 11th an· nual testing Saturday, April 29, 3-7 pm in Rockne rm. 
301. Special guests include Prof. Robert Cooper, 9th dan: Prof. Gary Cooper, 8th dan; Prof. Thurman Miller, 8th dan. Come and watch demonstrations and testing. 
r· 
--------------~----------------------------· 
page 26 
• SMC TENNIS 
Belles unable to handle Kalamazoo 
By TARA KRULL far as she did." Sports Writer Cromer noted that the Belles struggled against Kalamazoo Without knowing it, the Saint because the team has an excel­
Mary's Tennis team (9-12) may lent reputation and traininghave ended their Spring sea­facilities as far as tennis goes, son on Tuesday with their so they are able to heavily re­match against Kalamazoo cruit some of the better College. Unfortunately, Division III players. This, plus 
Kalamazoo came on too strong the team's experience with f6r the diminishing Belles' team playing at Nationals makes and defeated them 9-0. 
them the dominant and "Kalamazoo is a really tough respected team they are. team to play," coach Katie The Belles were to have trav­
Cromer said. "We only had six eled to Albion College today for players on Tuesday and every­their, final match this season. one had to step up to positions Due to illness and injury how­
they don't normally play at. ever, the Belles would only be We weren't in full form going able'to"ptlfWith five players.into the match." According to Cromer, it is still 
Although the final score did undecided whether or not the not account for any Saint Belles will actually compete to­
Mary's victories, Cromer added day, as they would automati­that the Belles' doubles teams cally have to default two played several close games. matches and go into the match 
Senior number four singles 0-2. player, Robin Hrycko, was the "Our two seniors are out only singles player to make it to now, Robin with a fractured a tiebreaker third set, but could arm and Nancy Waibel with the not withstand her competition. flu," Cromer said. "It's unfor­
Hrycko may have been able tunate that things had to end to pull out the only victory for this way for them." 
the Belles, but she fell hard on Saint Mary's defeated Albion her arm during her second set College 5-4 earlier this month and later realized that she had at the Midwest Invitational in 
fractured her arm in three Madison, Wisconsin. The team places. was anticipating a victory over 
"Robin actually played almost Albion again today to end their two whole sets with a fractured season of misfortunes on a pos­right arm," Cromer said. "It's itive note. incredible that she made it as 
three through light, crazily wind. Race over, unless Dennis Conner. 
Conner ha.s be . with San Diego' fluky winds for more· years, and alot could ha];Jpen in a mere 41 ffillUUJ:eS; onds. <'"Thai's how · Conner to pull·.·. comeback Wednesday a.nd sa.il into the America's Cqp finals 
for the sixth time ... }0dMl!L···.•..•,·:·i•··t\*ii·i~¥?ti·:!Jl:'>.)tt.$t Jilt!~ Stars & Stripes cau huge break"from the cious wind on the last leg overran the mostly women's Stars 
crew on Mighty Mary for a 52.· bly the most J:l1'P second victory to clinch the"'" the regatta, b~oke defender fmals. @fCelebration. 0b 1\1.ll<rll\hJ•.•MIA.1''1l·•·•···1 
"If we can get ourselves out there were tea.rs of this one; it will be one ofthe iiVstitnned silence·~ · ,, · 
---~------~ -,...,-,-..---------~~--:--:---. 
The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, April27, 1995 
• SMC SoFTBALL 
Patrick, Rhodes leave with wins 
By LORI GADDIS the Belles to victory. Anderson to take the lead Sports Writer "I really had a lot of fun on again. the mound. I had no idea I had With 2 out in the bottom of 
The Saint Mary's softball that many strikeouts," Vogel the fifth inning, junior first team faced an opponent for the commented. "I felt a little tired baseman Laura Richter tripledlast time at home this season. the last couple of innings but to bring in Senior AprilSeniors Seanne Patrick and everything really seemed to Rhoades, who hit 2-3 for the 
April Rhoades said goodbye to work well." game.what they called home for the Vogel also pitched the second Junior Maria Vogel proceed­duration of their careers at game of the double header, ed to help her own cause bySaint Mary's. hurling 5 more strikeouts. singling Richter in for the victo­But it was a happy departure Vogel has pitched 17 innings in ry. The game was then called as the Belles won both games 2 days. after the inning on account of of their double header against · In the second game. the darkness. Anderson College. 12-8 and 4-Belles felt the pressure put on "It seemed like we started 
3. them by Anderson. Anderson slow after coming off the win in Playing among raindrops and attacked the plate early, taking the first game," Moore ex· the threat of darkness, the a 2-1 lead heading into the bot­plained. "We tried to feel the 
Belles had to play only five in­tom of the fourth. batters out and prepare our­nings of the first game due to Darkness was beginning to seh,res for their hits, but some­the 8-run rule. Patrick went 2-become a problem for both how they still found the holes." 3 for the game, hitting 2 triples teams and the threat of calling Still, the Belles were pleasedwith 1 RBI. Junior second the game meant the Belles had with a double victory for their baseman Amy Misch also was to come out swinging. That last home games. Junior Amy2-3, including a single and was exactly what they did. Misch stated, "It was nice to triple with 1 RBI. Sophomore catcher Gretchen win these two and let the se­
Defensively, it was junior Moore, who went 2-2 in the niors go out in style." Maria Vogel who shined for the game, doubled to tie the game The Belles finish up their sea­Belles. Vogel pitched the dura­4-4 in the fourth. But in the son when they travel to Calvin tion of the game with 12 strike­fifth inning, a past ball allowed College on Monday. outs and only one walk to lead 

The Kellogg institute and The institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts 
An International Symposium 
Political Justice and the Transition to Democracy: Redressing Hun1an Rights. Violations 111 New Democracies 
Friday, April 28, J 995 1:15-5:30 p.m. Court Room, Notre Dame Law School 
~ , _Pan\~lc ld~~~~:~2·:/c:>s\ons m the Argcnunc Tt·>.ms.iti.on" 
"Risks and Bem:f1tS of En'lpO\'-CflOl:l d S , S: d'cs Buenos ,<\ires. Argcnttnn
Carlos Acuna. Center fo; St3h: nn ocu!l~ Ill • · · 
''Fighung Pl.)litlc~ll Atnnl!stlcs: Tho.! CDsc of Bru7~1~' ' l:lra%11 Paulo SertUO Pinheiro. Ccme,-for th\! Slud~ of Non-v•olenL"'~· Suo 1 uulo. 
Po1ncl II (:?.:30-.::\:45) , .. l"hc Unsettled S1ory or Pnlitt~nl Jusu:c '':'Chile". Jorae COITCa. Diego P<.111alc!' UnJVCT$i1y Snn11agn. Chllt.• 
-"Prosc:cutmg East Gcrmany·s Former ~ictators" 
A. James l\1cAdnJns. Kellogg Jnsututc. Univer:iaty of Nou-c Dame: 
Pnncl Ill (4' 15-5,30) Com.men\a1·ies \n Com.pan'ltive Pc.rspccti.vc 
"I\ Soutil African Perspective" Etienne Mureinik, University of \Vitwuter~nmJ. Sl)ulh Afn~o 
"A Braz.ili:.m Perspective" . Oscar Vieira. Columbw Univers1ty. USA, and Univ¢a·sny of Sao Pt~ulo, Brazil 


Thursday, April 27, 1995 
The Observer • TODAY page 27 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
MIKE PETERS 
CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 

hb OFFENSE. h'ON, 
YoU'RE GONNA NEED ANOJ#ER TWO HOURS AT LEVEL 13 BEFORE 7!1,fT 
..SUIT WILL. WORK ........ ON YOU. 
'----' 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
I NEED 
TO Gt.T 1\ 
HEAR\ RME 
M~IIOR. 
DILBERT 
M NE.W OWNER. OF THIS 
COMPANY I HEREBY BAN ALL 
MEETINGS OVER ONE HOUR THE. DP.ESS CODE. IS CASUAL STATUS R.E.POR.TS ARE OPHON­
ALI 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 27 Den 
28 Latin I word 1 CD follower 
4 Goodbye, to 29 Like Amundsen Gaius 
30 "Hurry up!" a Release 
32 "Give it--" 13 Ex of Mickey 
33 "Miss Otis 14 Secures. 
Regrets,"informally 
maybe? 15 Straight 
37 Hanoi occasion 
16 Where to make 38 Took up again 
a scene 17 Sophisticated 
40 Web-looted animal
18 Fired up 19 Holiday exhibit 43 High pair 
21 Working 440ueen of heaven
23 French seasoning 45 Kind of crab 24 Finery 
47Bel-­25 Sundials? (operatic style) 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
1:':+:-t+.::;i 11 Dungeons & Dragons devotees 
12 To avoid the alternative -;+;--r.-+.-i 15 Cafe additive -:+:-+::c-t=1 20 Like some staircases --'--'-"-....__. 22 N.F. L. scores 
I.. () I~ 'I,1\ Pil I.. () () Z 1\ Thursday 4 -9:15 PM Fieldhouse Mall 
DECAF and Big Earl will be there, 

just to name a few. 
MontgomereyTheatre Check out the Fieldhouse Mall Thursday & Friday for Antostal Events. 

~ 
0 
5 
" 
~ 
.. ~ :1 
s 
~ 
48 "What a good 
boy-" 49 Home of the 40-Down 
50 Shade of blue 51 Pottery luster 53 Where Bountiful 
is 
55 Sleeve 56 At an angle 57 An old story 58 Red Rose. e.g. 59 Fusses &o First place &1 Equivalent of 
A.S.T.. for clocks 
DOWN 
1 Villains 21nflate 3 Equipment 4 French water 5 Starve (for) & Luau memento 7 Union contract 
provision a Raising 9 Blowup: Abbr. 
10 Brief promo 
W\U•i\S 1}1£:. Pcl\1>1\ ov A.TIAC\\\1-\G A t-\UM6£.R 
Ttl E'4ER'I\t\\l'\G ~0\J 00 ~ 
MONE'Y '' 

Puzzle by A.J. Santora 
25 Forbear 2& Saskatchewan city 28 Part of an 
M.D.'seduc. 31 Exceeds 32 "Famous" 
cookie name 34 Be giddy 35Swamp 36 Emotionally 
secure 
MOVIES 
I
Thursday 
Sneakers 
$1 ­
39 "Welcome" site 46 Venom 40 Family in a 1936 47 "Over There" 
best seller composer 41 Least wild 50 Beep 42 Bagatelle 52 Weather system 43--Lingus 54 Little bit 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
5656 (75¢ each minute). 
BILL WATTERSON 
IV '10\JR t-\\Jt<\St:RS SCIHKE. TO 6<J lJI', \1 M't/\~S 11\1: S~IRITS 
'ICli!'R't. 1-\,II,VING RE5C\JE 
!<\ORE PJN . OOCE I>.G/\1\-.1. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
Strange Brew 
Projected on the backside of the 'Brare! 
11:00 PM ... 
To help customers fit Into the bathing suits they wanted, Felman's Department Store wisely installed stair-stepping machines in its women's department. 
!·i~~41tx~~:t~W~1=, ~. OF INTEREST @!i Father Malusl Mpumlwana, the director for the Institute for Pastoral Studies in Grahamstown, South Africa, will give a lecture entitled "South Africa: Foundations for Peace" at 12:15 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. kThe Dome Yearbook will distribute yearbooks from 1992 through 1995 at the LaFortune Info Desk between 9 a.m. and 9 p.m. Thursday and Friday. Joanne Pottlitzer, theater director. playwright, and translator will give a lecture entitled "The Artist in Chile's Democratization Process" today at 4:15 p.m. in C-103 Hesburgh Center for International Studies. "Blast off Country Style," a Washington. D.C. pop group, will be performing with Chicago bands Ting and Toulouse this Saturday, April 29, at 8:45 p.m. Also appearing will be Krautmiser. This last WVFI show is sponsored by Amnesty International and Dismas House. The James Madison School Project will hold an informational meeting tonight at 5 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. Find out how to help out with tutoring, mentoring, and other activities with students in grades 1-6. For more information call Sean Murphy x4008 or Joe O'Malley x4335.  
•MENU Notre Dame NORTH DINING HALL SOUTH DINING HALL Vegetable Stir Fry Flank Steak Sandwich Cajun Chicken Veal Parmigiana Sausage & Onion Banana Cream Pie Saint Mary's AN TOSTAL PICNIC Hamburgers and hot dogs BBQ Chicken Corn on the Cob Assorted Salads  
Have something to say? Use The Observer classifieds.  

-
NO MORE. MISSION STATE­1"'\ENTS OR ''VISIONS" OUR. /"\OTTO IS "HAVE. FUN, SATISFY CUSTOMERS, MAKE. 

.-.' 
page 28 Thursday, April27, 1995 
ASlick Sixteen 
SPORTS 

Cactus Jacks, Malicious ousted from tourney 
By DOMINIC AMOROSA Sports Writer 
Yesterday, 32 Bookstore bas­ketball teams played slip and slide at Stepan Courts. Two top ten seeds went sliding away in upsets and the tournament has a parity filled sweet sixteen. 
"The weather negated their quickness, but it hurt both teams," explained Pat Walsh after Woody & 4 Other Stiffs knocked off no. 8 seed Cactus Jack's 22-20. "A lot of shots turned into prayers that didn't have a chance at all." 
Cactus Jack's led by seniors Eddie Vrdolyak and Jim Kordis never really adjusted to the slippery courts. 
"They outplayed us and we might have underestimated them," commented Vrdolyak. "We thought the conditions would help a big team, but it was so slick that no one could do anything." 
Woody's Charlie Gomez and Walsh were able to do some­thing from the perimeter. Gomez caught fire in the first half and Walsh hit everything in the second half as Woody fought back from a 15-11 deficit. 
"Woody and Charlie gave us some motivational words at the start of the second half," said Walsh. "Once we hit a 
The Observer/ Angela Addington 
Bob Baxter of Showtime (white shirt, second from left) watches a shot while DESIRE'S Ryan Walker Cash (center) looks away. Showtime won the contest 21-14, and will face We're the Truth, and You Can't 1==-=-------------1 Handle the Truth tomorrow. 
The Observer/Chris Mullins 
couple of jumpers to get close, Walsh hit a double clutch the game and we couldn't hit it seemed like they became jumper in the corner to tie the our free throws," explained 
For a closer look 
timid and tight." game at 19, Woody's team had Cactus' Garrett Hartman. The Stiffs took the air out of made it back. "They adjusted to the courts 
at each member of
the ball and settled for the "We slowed it down because better than we did." extra pass throughout the we figured that people would Vrdolyak, a Bookstore leg­theSweet 16, see game. Normally a pressing slip and we could get open end in the Joe Haigh mold, team, the Stiffs had to play in shots," said Jason Woodward. page 24. the halfcourt. However, when "Walsh caught fire late in see BOOKSTORE I page 25 
• BASEBALL 
-
! I 
~ 
I 
! ~ 
... 

Tide turns on Irish in 9-1 loss 
By MEGAN McGRATH Sports Writer 
Notre Dame coach Paul Mainieri is fond of reminding his team that in baseball, every day is a new day and every game is different. 
Wednesday, this truth was made evident by his team's performance as the Irish, coming off one of their best games of the year, fell 9-1 in an ugly game with 24th-ranked Alabama. 
"I would have to say that was the poorest game we've played all year," Mainieri said. "To put it simply, we just didn't play well." 
No. 22 Notre Dame (32-13) may have taken the field physically after an hour and a half rain delay, but mentally it seemed the team was still in the clubhouse. 
"I think the rain delay effected us in that we lost our intensity, we really didn't expect to play today," Mainieri said. "That's really no excuse though, because Alabama didn't lose theirs at all." 
Indeed, the Tide scored first, putting a run on the board in the third. Drew Bounds led off with a walk, and advanced on two stolen bases. He scored on a single by Nate Duncan. 
"Their pitcher allowed us to steal in that posi­tion," Alabama head coach Jim Wells said. "He wasn't throwing real quick to the plate and that allowed us to be aggressive on the bases." 
Sloppy play would do in the Irish in the later innings, though. 
In the top of the sixth, Duncan drove in his sec­ond run with a double. After a walk to Chris Moller, J .J. Brock mishandled a Dax Norris grounder, allowing Duncan to score. Dustan Mohr followed with a double, bringing Moller home, but Brock committed another error on a Jason Jordan hit, and Norris scored. 
The Tide added two more runs in the next frame, on a double by Brett Taft, another Brock error, and an RBI single from Moller. 
"Playing college shortstop is a difficult position, and sometimes you have nights like that," Mainieri said in defense of Brock. "We had plen­ty of other mental lapses in the field." 
see BASEBALL/ page 22 

Thursday, April 27 
Friday, April 28 Saturday, April 29 

Sunday, April 30 
NO Baseball vs. Eastern Illinois, 
Blue and Gold Game, 1:30 p.m. 
5:00p.m. 
NO Track at Drake Relays NO Softball vs. Indiana, Noon 
ND Baseball at Northern Illinois (2) 
... SMC Tennis at Albion College, 
NO Lacrosse at Michigan State 
2:00p.m. 
Bookstore Basketball Quarterfinals SMC Track at Elmhurst Invitational 
Bookstore Basketball Finals 
NO Softball at DePaul 2:15 p.m. 
NO Track at Drake Relays 
Bookstore Basketball Sweet Sixteen 
Bookstore Basketball Semifinals 

