
Tuesday, February 21, 1995 • Vol. XXVI No. 91 TI-lE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT tv1ARY'S 
O'Hara defends GLND/SMC decision 
CLC passes measure 'objecting' to administration action 
By EDWARD IMBUS sexuality, and it is also expect­Assodatc News FJitnr ed to be reflected, philosophi­cally and conceptually, in rec­
Hesponding to a formal re­ognized student or­qtwst from the Campus Life ganizations." The philosophy Council (CI.CJ. Vice President of GLND/SMC, she concluded, of Student Affairs Patricia was inconsistent with the O'llara attended yesterday's University's mission. cu: meeting to give the ad mi nistralion's reasons for Since GLND/SMC was not an not granting GLND/SMC offi­officially recognized club, she cial university recognition. At said that it was forbidden from the nnd of the meeting, the receiving the privileges recog­Council passed a resolution nized student organizations obj1~eting to the ad­received, including use of any ministration's policy and campus facilities. Conse­called for official recognition quently, she said. GLND/SMC of the group. was prohibited from using the 
Counseling Center as a meet­
• see EDITORIAL, page 7 ing place. O'Hara also insisted that the 
Speaking to a packed Notre University, "is not denying, ig­Dame Hoom in LaFortune, noring, or denigrating gays O'llara stated that in 1992 she and lesbians." She stated that upheld a decision by the Office she had changed her opening of Student Activities to deny remarks to students during GLND/SMC oflicial recognition freshman and transfer after her "analysis of applica­orientation to state "that tion materials," convinced her offensive behavior towards that the group failed to pro­gays and lesbians is not tolera­mole the mission of the ble," and that RA training had lIniversity. been adapted to help meet the 
needs of homosexual students. 
"GLND addressed homosex­In her decision, she affirmed through because of in," said Town. ual acts neutrally, and urged the decision of the previous GLND/SMC GLND/SMC's refusal to partici­''I'm very disappointed that the University towards encour­vice president of Student pate, according to Jay Town, they declined our invitation. aging monogamous homosex-Affairs, Father David Tyson, declines president of the College Hepub­GLND/SMC prides itself on edu­11111 relationships," said stressing that there are other licans. cation and fostering debate, O'llara, an ex officio member options available to gay and In an interview yesterday but when a group contrary to

College GOP
of the CLC. With that determi­lesbian students, including Town said that a panel discus­its beliefs or even its existence nation, she concluded that the services offered by the By DAVE 1YLER sion between the two groups asks for a discussion and ex­constitution of GLND/SMC was University Counseling Center News Editor was to have taken place Mon­planation of the issue, they "not consistent with the teach­and Campus Ministry. day, but did not because of don't respond, they feel its be­ing of the Church." Plans for a "debate" between GLND/SMC's questioning about neath them and contrary to 
"Notre Dame is different In addition, Notre Dame's the Notre Dame chapter of the the debate's appropriateness. their mission. than many places," she said. "broad open-speakers policy," College Republicans and Gays "(GLND/SMC co-chair) John "I feel their reaction was un­"It articulates individual which has included forums and Lesbians of Notre Dame Blandford told me via e-mail professional, and disappointing behavioral expectations of and Saini Mary's College that this forum wasn't at the 
see CLC I page 4

their students. especially with (GLND/SMC) have fallen level he wanted to participate see DEBATE I page 3 

Blank: 'Why are there so few women in economics?' 
By TIMOTHY GREEN 
New.• Writer 
Due to a variety of factors in­eluding the conflicts of aca­dPmic and family life, both ac­tive and passive discrimination, and the nature of economics it­sf'If, there is a disproportionate rP-presentation of women in the field of economics today, ac­cording to Professor Rebecca Blank of Northwestern Univer­sity. 
As the Chair and co-editor of tlw Newsletter of the American Economic Association's Com­mittee for the Status of Women in the Economics Profession (CSWEP), Blank herself has undertaken considerable study of this issue. 
Blank pointed to statistics that CSWEP has gathered which illustrate her main point. According to the data that has been compiled, in the 1960's, less than live percent of social science faculties In American universities were women. To­day, more than 30 years later, great strides have been made by women in almost all of the social sciences, such as political science, psychology, and sociol­ogy. 
In these fields, women now make up 35 to 40 percent of university faculties. Economics remains the glaring omission to this trend, where typical facul­ties are less than 10 percent women, according to Blank. 
Given the above data, Blank has posed this basic question: "Why is it that the field of eco­nomics has fewer women than every other social science?'' Blank attributed the problem to a variety of causes. 
One reason for this imbal­ance, according to Blank, is the conflict with the concerns of academic life and the concerns of family life which many women face. "It is harder for women to concentrate on get­ting published or working to achieve tenure when they also are concerned with raising a family," Blank said. "Basically, life just isn't fair on this issue." 
see BlANK I page 4 

Women 'invaluable' to ND 
Progress still necessary, Malloy says 
ByTOMMORAN News Writer 
Women have come to be an invaluable part of Notre Dame and its Catholic character, ac­cording to University President Father Edward "Monk" Malloy. 
In a lecture last night at Pangborn Hall, Malloy spoke about "The Catholic Character of Notre Dame... How Women Have Enhanced it in the Last 20 Years." 
Father Malloy made note of the fact that although Notre Dame has only been a co-edu­cational institution for 23 years, women have always been an important presence at the Uni­versity. Father Basil Moreau, founder of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, created a three­pronged organization consist­ing of priests, brothers, and sis­ters. 
Soon after founding Notre Dame, Father Edward Sorin encouraged a contingent of Holy Cross sisters to join him in America. They soon did, and they went on to found Saint Mary's College. 
Women remained an impor­tant part of the University, Malloy said, pointing out that Lewis Hall was founded as a residence for religious women seeking graduate degrees. When a proposed merger with Saint Mary's in 1972 fell through, Malloy said, Notre Dame decided to admit women anyway, due to "excellent con­versation about the advantages of being a co-educational insti­tution." 
Malloy pointed out a num­ber of valid reasons behind this decision. Referring to the largely female audience, he noted that otherwise, "You wouldn't be here, first and foremost." He stated that as a co-educational institution, Notre Dame is more fully repre­sentative of both society and the Church. 
Malloy also said that since Notre Dame is arguably the greatest Catholic university in the world, it provides an impor­tant "opportunity for women for academic excellence and quality of education." 
According to Malloy, co-edu­cation has created "a much richer and more diverse educa­tional institution" with more "vibrant and exciting class­rooms." He stated that the so­cial network is much improved, and that for both men and women, Notre Dame now offers better preparation for leader­ship in society and the Church, as well as better preparation for modern family life. 
Malloy also mentioned the important part women have played in the voiunteerism of the University, stating that "the range of things that Notre Dame people do in response to human need has increased ex­ponentially" since women were first admitted. 
Malloy also addressed the progress that still needs to be made in terms of male-female relations. He admitted the many social problems that stu­
see MALLOY I page 4 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, February 21, 1995 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Reliving the Oregon Trail­in Michiana 
Kim Massman 

Over another make-Accent Copy Editor you-sick-for-the-remain­der-of-the-day NOH breakfast, two of my friends and I sat reflect­ing on the little things that we would re­member from our four short years at Notre Dame. 
I'm sure most of you seniors out there have already begun to freak out, think life is simply hell, and that everything is in a major state of movement-spinning-and there is just no foot to put on the ground to cure these bed­spins. Or perhaps you're employed. 
One of the things I will walk away from here with will be the fond memory of the current road conditions in the South Bend/Mishawaka area, specifically the existence of a certain large speedbump in the middle of Edison Road between Notre Dame Avenue and Ironwood. 
I cannot express to my dear readers how many times I have zipped down that road, which, may I remind you, is a 30mph road­pretty slow for a four lane major street, I would say. Well, my car goes into a state of shock when I slam on the breaks upon seeing it because I always forget that it's there. What is going on here? A busy street, a 30 mph limit, and a speed bump? Sorry about the whining. 
I think if all of us have similar experiences, not only with the deathtrap on Edison, but all over town. Everywhere I go: speedbumps, speedbumps, speedbumps. Not only are they all over town, but they just are not manufac­tured correctly. 
"Those bumps at the mall will definitely screw your car" grunts misguided and con­fused Senior Andy Caspersen-give or take a few expletives. Andy does not own a car, yet he has witnessed the madness first hand. "At Video Watch ... yeah... they're long ... I don't... I don't know," cries Senior Mike Vander Yen, who just wanted to get his name in the paper. 
Yet, Mike does have a point here. Not only are the speed bumps at Video Watch unusual­ly long, there are two in a row. As If it's pos­sible to speed up to 80 mph in the three inch­es between the speed bumps at Video Watch on Ironwood. Nevertheless, drivers agree that Edison, University Park Mall and Video Watch are the three most unsavory speed bump locales. 
Yet the story does not end there. Turtle Creek, the former entrance to the 06 parking lot, and the road that connects Campus View and Martin's are three more trouble spots. Speedbumps, Speedbumps, Speedbumps. Hey, since I'm on the subject, can I rant and rave about the battlefield of a new entrance to 06? China can be seen at the other end of the potholes. 
My purpose in writing this today is to make the world a better place. If we all loved the animals and little children, were politically correct-oh, forget it. Just exercise caution folks. They're all over the place. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF 
News Production Jamie Heisler Belle Bautista Gwendolyn Norgle Susan Marx 
Sports Accent Dave Treacy Jenny Gunzelman Pete Rubinas Viewpoint Suzy Fry Graphics Lab Tech Robert Bollman, Jr. Eric Ruethling 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• Wmu.n A.T A GLANCE 
Police commander on trial for Apartheid-era murders 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa 
A police commander accused o leading a terror campaign pleaded innocent Monday in a trial that could expose details of the white minority's attempts to retain power in apartheid's last days. 
Testimony at Eugene de Kock's trial may support African National Congress charges that former President F.W. de Klerk's National Party fomented violence even as it opened the way to the country's first all-race elections last April. 
The National Party needs to build support among the black 
\ 
t 

majority if it is to have a chance 388:'Iillt's challenging the ANC in future elec-200 km 
tions. De Klerk became a deputy·L_--------------~A""''""Ton;;;;la~euw;;;;;;;;." people who disclose full details of 
president in President Nelson Mandela's ANC-led coali­tion government. 
De Kock, facing 121 charges ranging from murder to weapons offenses, is accused of heading a special police unit targeting anti-government activists. 
Prosecutors say ANC agents were tortured and killed in de Kock's headquarters. De Kock's squad has been linked to the death of an ANC lawyer who was killed when a tape recorder he 
received in the mail exploded. It 
South Africa has been accused of supplying m!!!!!! weapons to the lnkatha Freedom ~ Party. the ANC's main rival, in order to destabilize the black oppo­sition. Former members of the unit began disclosing details of its actions as early as six years ago. An independent multiracial com­mission led by Justice Richard Goldstone -now the war crimes prosecutor for former Yugoslavia and Rwanda -last year uncov­ered evidence of police crimes. Now the government wants to set up a Truth Commission that would recommend granting amnesty to 
their apartheid-era crimes. De Kock's lawyer, Flip Hattingh, has said his client might seek to delay trial until a Truth Commission completes its work -a process expected to last at least 18 months. 
To counter that strategy, prosecutors filed charges that de Kock committed murder and other crimes for person­al gain, not political reasons. The judge would have the final say on whether to delay the trial or proceed because the charges involved non-political crimes. 
Pre-polls show Dole ahead in race 
MANCHESTER, N.H. 
Bob Dole has been ahead in the New Hampshire opinion polls before, only to see his presidential dreams shattered by the likes of Victoria Zachos and David Carney. So don't blame Dole for not taking much stock in early polls, except to joke he wishes New Hampshire's primary were today instead of a year from now. The 

Senate majority leader and putative front-runner for the GOP presidential nomination made his campaign debut this weekend with a circuit of town hall meetings across New Hampshire, including four on Monday. Along the way, he served notice that he would not be out­worked here in 1996, as he was in 1988 by then-Vice President George Bush. Dole's cushion-three weekend polls showed him with a 30-percentage point lead here -is unlikely to be so comfortable after his rivals have had more time to introduce themselves and the cam­paign becomes serious. But as Dole launched his third White House bid he said it had a "much better feel" than the last one. 
Commuter line shooter to appeal 
MINEOLA, N.Y. 
Long Island Rail Road gunman Colin Ferguson wants 
to appeal his murder conviction, but he's still not willing 
to say he's insane, his lawyers said Monday. Ferguson 
represented himself during the trial that concluded 
Friday with his conviction in the murder of six commuter 
railroad passengers in 1993. After the verdict, lawyer 
William Kunstler said he would handle an appeal based 
on the claim that Ferguson wasn't competent to act as 
his attorney. But Ferguson's legal adviser at trial, Alton 
Rose, said Monday, "Colin would never want to be 
deemed incompetent mentally under any circum­
stances." Two judges found Ferguson competent to 
stand trial. During trial, he consistently referred to him­
self in the third person. Ferguson also considered call­
ing a witness to testify that he was controlled by a com­
puter chip implanted in his brain and argued that the 19 
shooting survivors plotted with police to frame him. The 
37 -year-old Jamaican immigrant faces a possible life 
term at his March 20 sentencing. 

Travel agents fight commission caps 
TRENTON, N.J. 

Travel agents are taking their case to the courts, as well as the court of public opinion, in a fight to get the airlines to remove a $50 cap they placed on ticket com­missions earlier this month. The American Society of Travel Agents Inc. plans to announce a strategy Tuesday that will include legal action, legislative efforts, a public ad campaign and other steps to overturn the cap. Virtually every major U.S. airline announced last week that in order to cut costs they are capping commissions to agents on ticket sales. The airlines will now pay agents up to $25 for one-way domestic tickets and $50 for round trips, instead of a 10 percent commission on each ticket. After the announcement, some large travel agencies decided to start charging customers a fee for booking. But smaller agencies fear if they impose fees customers will bypass them and book their flights direct­ly with the airlines or through on-line computer services. At least one lawsuit has been filed so far, and in the past week some 2,000 angry travel agents met in New York City and about 500 more gathered at a hotel in Beverly Hills, Calif., before protesting on nearby Wilshire Boulevard. 
County threatens to close airspace 
MORGANTOWN, W.Va. 

The Air Force scoffed at a small Appalachian county's request to defray its costs from a National Guard plane crash, so now the county has fired back: Pay up or stay out of our sky. The Morgan County Commission has closed the airspace over its 231 square miles to federal government planes until the Air Force reimburses it for $10,900 in expenses from the October 1992 crash of a C­130 into a farmhouse. The National Guard plane based in Martinsburg was on a training mission when it went down in Berkeley Springs, popular with tourists for its mineral springs and antique stores. All six crewmen were killed; one man in the house escaped serious injury. The county realizes that despite its Jan. 27 flight ban, the sky really is controlled by the Federal Aviation Administration. "We weren't serious about restricting our airspace but we're certainly very serious that we need to be reassured that in the event this ever happens again we wouldn't be placed in the same peril," Maggio said. 

Tuesday, Feb. 21 Accu-Weather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high 

The Accu-Weather<B> forecast for noon, Tuesday, Feb. 21. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1995 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
PI"9S$UffJ ~ ~ ,..-{\
H L Ea r:;sJ !Til 0 tZ1 § ¥ L....i C,___! 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Viii Associated Presa 

Atlanta 66 50 Oallas 60 41 New Orleans 72 42 Baltimore 59 33 Denver 67 33 NewYor'K 51 39 Boston 42 33 Los Angeles 94 63 Philadelphia 56 34 Chicago 50 31 Miami 60 64 Phoenix 65 56 Columbus 50 26 Minneapolis 37 29 St. Louis 64 37 
~----------------------~~~----------------------~ 
Tuesday, February 21, 1995 

The Observer/ Kris Adldarma 

Speaking her mind 
Dr. Ann Robbins lectured on the subject of biology and masculinity yesterday at the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
Dimmed hope for end to Russia-rebel war 
By CHRIS BIRD 
Associated Press 
NAZRAN, Russia 

Tough talk by Chechnya's rebel leader and Hussia's de­fense minister have further dimmed hopes that the fighting in the breakaway southern re­public will end any time soon. 
As scattered new clashes broke out Monday in Chechnya, rebel leader Dzhokhar Dudayev predicted the war would "last for anoth­er 50 years." 
In Moscow, Defense Minister Pavel Grachev said no peace could come from negotiations with Chechen rebels, declaring that Moscow will only settle for their surrender. 
Visiting an armor-testing range outside Moscow, he said Chechen military commanders "are willing to talk about a cease-fire. But our talks with them are short -no cease-fire whatsoever, just an ultimatum about surrendering the weapons." 
Grachev was one of the main planners of the Chechnya oper­ation, but his current role is less certain and it was unelear whether he was speaking for the government Monday. 
Hussia sent thousands of 
troops into Chechnya, a mostly 
Muslim republic in the Cauca­
sus Mountains, on Dec. 11. 
Thousands of Chechen civilians 
and fighters and at least 1,400 
Russian servicemen are be­·lieved to have died in the war. 
Officials in the neighboring 
republic of Ingushetia planned 
new attempts to arrange peace 
talks for today after a shaky 
truce expired Sunday night. In­
gush Vice President Boris 
Agapov said he spoke to both 
sides Monday in hopes of 
scheduling another negotiating 
session. 
Ingush government adviser 
Pyotr Kosov said contacts 
between Russian and Chechen 
officials were "much more un­
stable" than before because 
politicians were torpedoing the 
talks, the lnterfax news agency 
reported. 
Dudayev said talks between 
military commanders had no 
chance of succeeding and re­
peated his call for negotiations 
with President Boris Yeltsin of 
Russia. 

The Observer • NEWS page 3 
• BOARD Of GOVERNANCE 
BOG announces SMC events 
By MARILYN ALIOTO 
News Writer 
A number of important dates and events were approved and announced at last night's Board of Governance meeting at Saint Mary's College. 
• 
Class Elections are being held today. Voting will be in the Dining Hall. 

• 
BOG approved a plan to in­stall a radio antenna which will allow students to receive WVFI radio AM 640. The location and further administrative assistance will soon be dis­cussed. 


Debate 
continued from page 3 
to the Notre Dame campus," said Town. 
Blandford said that after reading a letter Town wrote in the Feb. 13 edition of the Observer, he felt that an appearance with the College Republicans was not in the best interests of GLND/SMC. In that letter, Town said one of the group's purposes was to "foster homosexual ideals and activi­ty," and that the issue of GLND/SMC's role was one "of sexual activity, not sexual ori­entation." 
"That letter showed me that this was not going to be the sort of forum we want to participate in," Blandford said. "We're try­ing to debate the adminis­tration, and not do battle with a lot of specific groups. We basi­cally declined their invitation." 
"We welcome the idea of a fo­rum, but there is no reason for a representative from GLND/SMC to stand up there at every discussion of this issue," he said. 
Blandford cited the Gender Studies Program's upcoming discussion of homophobia as a second example of an instance where the issue could be ad­
• 
A motion was approved to recognize the Social Work Or­ganization as an official Saint Mary's club. The main focus of the club is to introduce fresh­man and sophomore students, who are planning or interested in a sociology major, to various local organizations. 

• 
A tentative date of February 28 is set for an ND/SMC rela­tions night. A meeting is sched­uled for this Thursday for ND/SMC class representatives to discuss the format of that evening. 

• 
A tentative date of March 8 is set for SERV's fund-raiser 


dressed without GLND/SMC's presence or sponsorship. 
According to Town the "debate" would have been open to the public and would have presented an opportunity for both parties to state their posi­tions. "Forum would perhaps be a better choice of words for this," he said. The debate was to be co-sponsored by the Col­lege Republicans and the Grad­uate Student Union. 
The panel would have con­sisted of five members: one of GLND/SMC's co-chairs (either Blandford or Kelley Smith). GSU President Ed Wingenbach, two representatives of College Republicans, and Town himself, who would have functioned as a moderator to keep discussion moving. Town said he intended to ask questions to prevent the forum from being limited to prepared statements. 
Town said the forum was hurriedly put together during a two week period after the be­ginning of the controversy over the University's decision to bar GLND/SMC from using the Uni­versity counseling center as a group. 
"We wanted to contribute to the discussion, to get things moving, before they died down," Town said. He added that he felt that such a forum would be in the best interests of both groups. 
• CAMPUS BRIEF 
~;~cy ~~~p~'=:~iU 
be per-Students with a Notre Dame, forming on campus at the Saint Mary's, or Holy Cross Stepan Center on Thur~day, 'il!Identif!cation Card can pur· March 2 at 8:00 p.m. Tickets ''chase tickets for$12. 
· will go on sale Wednesday morning at 8:00 a.m. at the <;\Tickets will be $15 for the LaFortune Information Desk. general public. Students may which will be held at Dalloways. 
• 
There will be a meeting on Wednesday and Thursday for all those who are interested in running for RHA. 

• 
A proposal is underway to improve the SMC Directories on campus. 

• 
On Wednesday, Feb. 22, the seminar "What Are Eating Dis­orders?" will be held from12:15-1:00 p.m. in Haggar Hall. 

• 
Crack Ups Comedy Cafe will be held on Feb. 24 at 7:30 p.m. in Haggar Parlor. 


GLND/SMC's cancellation came in the form of a electronic mail communication from Blandford to Town. The lack of personal contact distressed Town. 
"You can't assume people check their e-mail daily," said Town. "I was very disappointed that he didn't contact me per­sonally." 
Blandford said he decided to 
e-mail Town after failing to 
reach him by phone. The e-mail 
was dated Monday February 
13. Town said he did not receive the communique until Friday the 17. Due to the con­fusion over participation, there was little publicity for the event. 
Though the lack of communi­
cation may have doomed any 
chance at a compromise ar­
rangement, Town feels that 
GLND/SMC is being unfaithful 
to its professed course. "I think 
they fail to realize that the mes­
sage of the letter was merely a 
fragment of a much larger ar­
gument," he said. 
Blandford feels the language 
of Town's editorial piece ended 
all chance for a reasonable dis­
cussion. "Their position as op­
position was not merited given 
the tone of that letter," he said. 
Town said there were cur­
rently no plans to hold a forum 
at a later date. 
purchase two tickets with one ID and may carry as many as four ID's. 
This is Chapman's first tour in over two years and Notre Dame wiU be her first show on the new tour. 
HEY SENIORS 
THEFREDDYJONESBAND AT SENIOR BAR SAT., FEB. 2STH $6 @DOOR DOORS OPEN@ 9 P.M. ~ 

41)~ 
Some employers promise you the world. We offer you achance to make the world better. 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 631-6385 
CLC 
continued from page 1 
and lectures on this issue, serves as an avenue for further discussion, she said. 
She admitted, however, that "We can do more. I am willing to meet with anyone with ideas as to how to better address the needs of our gay and lesbian students." 
Several Council members asked O'Hara what changes in the GLND/SMC constitution would make such an organiza­tion acceptable. SUB Manager Bridget Conley asked that if sexual intercourse were dis­couraged explicitly in the GLND/SMC charter, if it would be recognized. 
Student Senator Sara Skalicky suggested that a facul­ty or staff advisor be assigned to GLND/SMC and allow it to be recognized on a conditional trial basis of one year. 
O'Hara responded that either suggestion would not bring recognition to GLND/SMC be­cause of its past history, which she "could not divorce from consideration." 
Council member Ava Collins, assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters, criticized O'Hara for overriding the judg­ment of UCC Director Patrick Utz. Utz allowed GLND/SMC to meet in the UCC, while also referring gay and lesbian stu­dents to the group for counsel­ing beyond their individual meetings with UCC staff. 
John Blandford, co-chair of 

GLND/SMC, echoed Collins' 
concerns. "It is entirely appro­
priate for the University to rec­
ognize GLND/SMC," Blandford 
said. "The Counseling Center 
staff was wonderful, and fre­
quently steered students to 
GLND/SMC to help them enter 
the larger campus community." 
Blandford cited last week's 

public GLND/SMC meeting to 
show the need for a gay and 
lesbian support group. In that 
meeting, he said that several 
members shared stories as to 
how to relate their sexual 
orientation to their parents, 
especially during Junior 
Parent's Weekend. 
He stated that he "was in dis­

belief' that OSA did not know 
of their meetings in the 
Counseling Center, noting that 
GLND/SMC had been meeting 
there for the past nine years 
and that he had met with 
Roland Smith, executive assis­
tant to University President 
Father Edward Malloy, and 
Campus Ministry Director Fa­
ther Richard Warner in the 
Counseling Center as well. 
O'Hara responded that she 

had not known that GLND/SMC 
was using the Counseling Cen­
ter for meetings until she saw a 
September 7 advertisement in 
The Observer. 
"We have a lot of depart­

ments and a lot of rooms," she 
explained. 
The proposed resolution, 

which was nearly identical to a 
resolution defeated at their last 
meeting two weeks ago, stated 
that the Council "strongly ob­
jects to the administration's ac­
tion to expel GLND/SMC from 
campus and calls upon the 
administration to recognize 
GLND/SMC as an integral part 
of the Notre Dame community 
deserving of all rights and 
privileges afforded other cam­
pus groups." 
Several minor changes in­

cluded changing the proposal 
in its original draft from 
"strongly condemning" the 
decision of Student Affairs to 
"strongly objecting to" its deci­
sion. 
It was approved by CLC 

members 13-2 with one absten­
tion. Father George Rozum 

and Assistant Vice President for Resident Life William Kirk voted against the resolution, while North Quad Student Senator Sean Sullivan abstained. 
The resolution, which re­quired a two-thirds vote for passage, will now be presented to O'Hara by Student Body President Dave Hungeling. She will then have seven days to re­spond to the resolution, as re­quired by the CLC bylaws. She may either approve the resolu­tion or reject it, and state the rationale behind her decision in writing to the Council. 
John Lucas contributed to this report. 
Malloy 
continued from page 1 

dents encounter at Notre Dame, but said that such problems with the social life are "a uni­versal situation," noting that students at every university he visits express dissatisfaction with it. 
"Young people in our society are not always the easiest to in­teract with on a regular basis," he said. "There's always going to be a certain amount of anxi­ety about the social world." 
As for the future, Malloy said that the University is making progress, but it can be a slow process. 
He noted that a significant number of women faculty have been hired in recent years, and that the percentages of male and female students are near­ing equality. 
He also pointed to the recent appointment of a female vice president of the University, and the rise of women in various local alumni clubs as good signs. 
Malloy acknowledged that the obstacles facing women at Notre Dame are far from over, pointing out as an example the fact that the University has never had a female student body president. In the end, though, he expressed optimism for the future, saying that "Our possibilities are unlimited -I think we've made real progress." 
Banquet rooms available for up to 200 
Blank 
continued from page 1 

Another reason may be a sim­ple lack of interest on the part of women due to the very nature of economics, Blank said. The issues that women today are concerned with are generally related to ideas of family and community living, while basic economic theory is "relentlessly individualistic" and therefore "incompatible with feminist theories." 
According to Blank, "the very nature of the economic model of thinking that we use and teach is traditionally hostile to women." Blank pointed out that the women's liberation movement of the last 30 years has given rise to "feminist theo­ries" within many fields. 
Yet, no such theories exist in economics, due to this essential separation. Therefore, there is a lack of interest among women for the study of economics. As 




Recycle The Observer 

Szechuan • Cantonese • American Chinese Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 days Sunday Buffet Brunch -Every Sunday $8.95 for Adults 
THE 
STYLE 
CO. INC. 
Hours M-F 10-8 Sat 10-6 Sun 12-4 
"Alternative Clothing for Today's Woman" 
THE STYLE CO., INC. Grand Opening, Feb 27, 1995! 
A unique shopping experience without the Grape Rd. hassle. 
• 
Over 40 styles of Hats 

• 
Alterations and layaway available 

• 
Open evenings and Sundays 


1912 S. 11th, Niles 687-9123 
"In the newly remodeled Belle Plaza" 
Blank stated, "If you take femi­nist approaches seriously, it may explain why some women simply find economics less in­teresting." 
A related problem that this lack of interest creates is an eventual "lack of role models" in the economics field. Wit­nessing so few women eco­nomics professors in the uni­versities, many female under­graduates may be dissuaded from entering the field. "Clearly, more women econo­mists are needed to encourage younger women in the field," said Blank. 
Blank also pointed out the ex­istence of definite discrimina­tion in the field of economics, most of which is passive and likely unconscious, but cases of active discrimination do exist, she said. 
"I myself hear two or three stories a year of egregious dis­crimination of women," said Blank, who admitted that this is not a major problem, but warned that the real threat of discrimination is much less overt. "The form in which the majority of discrimination takes is very subtle ... simple daily in­teraction between male faculty and grad students can be a form of exclusion that may not be conscious but nevertheless has its effect." 
Blank said that no single rea­son can provide the answer. 
"I suspect that 'all of the above' may be the only correct answer here," she said. "The question to me is a very inter­esting and pertinent one which is sure to be considered often in the near future." 
Blank, who spoke last night in Decio Faculty Hall, will be giving two more public talks during her stay at Notre Dame this week. She will be lecturing Tuesday night at 7 p.m. in 117 DeBartolo on "Religious CommitiPent and Economic Analysis," and on Wednesday at 
4:15 p.m. in 126 DeBartolo on "Poverty and Policy in the 1990's." 


COME ON EILEEN 
I SWEAR YOU HAVE RED HAIR! 
LOVE,

HAPPY 19TH 
TH£48 BUNCH 

ATTENTION: CINCINNATI AREA STUDENTS 
The 1995 Xavier summer sessions bulletin of classes & workshops Is now available. Undergraduate &graduate level courses offered in the areas of arts and sciences, business, education, professional studies and social sciences. Session dates: May 15-June 22 & July 3 -August 10 CALL OR WRITE: 
X\VIEK 
I 
summersessions UNIVERSITY 
3800 Victory Parkway Cincinnati, OH 45207-3120 513-745-4381 
Xavier University is an academic community commilled to equal opportunity for all persons regardless ofage, sex, race, religion, handicap, or natiol'llll origin. 
Tuesday, February 21, 1995 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 5 
Mexican economy helped 
By MARTIN CRUTSINGER 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Top finance officials from the United States and Mexico re­ported progress Monday as ne­gotiations on a $20 billion U.S. rescue package dragged into a fifth day. 
Officials were meeting at the Treasury Department seeking to put the finishing touches on a plan that will require Mexico to take a variety of unpopular actions aimed at getting its economy under control. 
Among the demands U.S. of­fieials have said they were seeking were guarantees that Mexico sharply restrain the growth of its money supply, a move certain to translate into rising interest rates. 
Treasury Secretary Robert Hubin, who is heading the U.S. negotiating effort, has also as­sured nervous members of Congress that the administra­tion will demand ironclad guar­antees that the United States will receive oil revenues from Mexico if Mexico defaults. Con­trol of the country's oil re­sources is a particularly sensi­tive political issue in Mexico. 
Officials Monday refused to disclose what issues have kept negotiators at the table for the last live days, but they insisted that progress was being made. 
There were indications a final deal could be announced as early as Tuesday. 
"The United States and Mexi­can officials have been making progress toward finalizing the 

The changing P~so 
/,. >";; 1\.: 
The Mexican currency strength~ned on word of a $20 ~ill ion pac.kage of 
u.s. loan guarantees being negotiated between U.S. and,Mexic'an)officials.
,. ..~~) . ,•,, 
Source: AP research AP/C. Sanderson 
economic support package," presidential press secretary Mike McCurry told reporters at the White House. 
The United States is offering 
Mexico $20 billion in loans and 
loan guarantees from a Trea­
sury fund originally created to 
support the U.S. dollar. 
President Clinton chose this 
approach after a larger pack­
age of $40 billion in loan guar­
antees ran into heavy opposi­
tion in Congress. 
The current negotiations be­
gan last Thursday when Mexi­
can Finance Minister Guillermo 
Ortiz arrived for discussions 
with Rubin. 
During lengthy testimony 
before Congress in recent 
weeks, Rubin and other U.S. 

Israel replaces Arab workers after attacks
officials have stressed that they would seek constraints on Mex­ico's money supply as a way of halting the steep slide in the peso, which has lost nearly 40 percent of its value since Dec. 20. 
Rubin also sought to reassure lawmakers about the risk to 
U.S. funds by saying that the agreement would stipulate that a portion of Mexico's earnings on oil exports would be de­posited in an account at the New York Federal Reserve Bank in the event of a default on the U.S. loans. 
Administration officials have insisted that severe fiscal con­trols in Mexico are needed to stop foreign investors from pulling money out of the coun­try. 
But Mexican President Ernesto Zedillo still faces the risk of a political backlash from voters who already are com­plaining that their government has given the United States too much control over Mexican economic policy. 
Interest rates, for instance, are already running above 40 percent; maintaining or in­creasing them could touch off a recession and social unrest, private economists have warned. 
In addition to the $20 billion in support being offered by the United States, the International Monetary Fund has pledged to come up with as much as $17.8 billion, and an additional $10 billion has been offered by the Bank for International Settle­ments in Basel, Switzerland. 
By DAN PERRY 
Associated Press 
TEL AVN, Israel 

Construction worker Ion Tofei, attracted by wages far higher than in his native Ro­mania, arrived in Israel this week to take over the kind of job that until recently was held by Palestinians. 
The 52-year-old welder is among tens of thousands of foreign laborers streaming to the Jewish state to replace Palestinians as part of Israel's emerging separation from the West Bank and Gaza Strip. 
The foreigners are picking fruit at farms in central Israel, for example, and building in­terchanges on the Tel Aviv­Jerusalem highway. 
"If Palestinians can find jobs in their own areas, that is more natural and better," said gov­ernment spokesman Uri Dromi Monday. "The less we are to­gether the better." 
Aimed at preventing further terrorist attacks, the separa­tion policy is a sharp departure from the initial hopes for peaceful economic integration when the lsrael-PLO accord was signed in September 1993. 
It is making an already des­perate situation even worse in the Palestinian areas, still heavily dependent on the income from jobs in Israel. 
But a wave of bombings against Israelis by Islamic fun­damentalists opposed to the peace process has convinced many Israelis that the best op­tion for the moment is divorce. 
Since October, 56 Israelis have died in such attacks. 
After the most recent attack, a suicide bombing that killed 21 Israelis on Jan. 22, Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin sealed off the Palestinian areas and appointed officials to come up with a plan for making the separation permanent. 
In talks with the Israelis, Palestinian leader Vasser Arafat has noted that the grow­ing economic despair is feeding support for the extremists and filling their ranks. 
"We are really worried about this phenomenon," said Shaher Saed, head of the General Federation of Labor Unions in the West Bank. "Once the Palestinian workers lose their jobs in Israel ... they cannot lind jobs in the West Bank and Gaza." 
He said unemployment in the West Bank, where about 1 mil­lion Palestinians live, rose to 51 percent since the closure. 
Dromi said foreign invest­ment and joint Israeli-Arab in­dustrial parks will eventually provide the Palestinians with work. But the foreign aid is coming in slowly, and the in­dustrial parks are at least two years away. 
Meanwhile, Palestinian hope that peace will bring a mea­sure of prosperity is fading away. 
Construction worker Mo­hammad Othman from the West Bank village of Yatta said he has earned only $73 from odd jobs in the month since the closure. 
"Religious Commitment and 
Guerrilla attacks spur raids 
Economic Analysis: 
Are they Compatible?" Professor Rebecca Blank 

Dept. ofEconomics, Northwestern University 
Feb. 21 at 7 p.m. 117 DeBartolo 
Sponsored by: Department of Economics and Omicron Delta Epsilon 
All Majors Welcome! 
Are you a 

Associated Press missiles, said security sources. guerrillas attacked an outpost 
Two jets returned less than of Israel's surrogate militia, the 
RASHAYA, Lebanon an hour later to fire two more South Lebanon Army, with ma­
Tit-for-tat attacks erupted on missiles at the same target: a chine-gun fire and grenades. the last active Arab-Israeli war dirt road used by Hezbollah On Sunday, in the heaviest front for a second day Monday guerrillas. clashes this year. Hezbollah as militants raided an outpost Hezbollah, or Party of God, guerrillas attacked 12 Israeli belonging to Israeli allies and reported no casualties. Ahmed and South Lebanon Army out­warplanes bombed guerrilla Qamar. a Hezbollah leader, posts. targets. warned Israelis to "expect Israeli warplanes struck back 
Two fighter bombers more selective military opera­with three air raids, and tanks swooped down on Jabal Abi tions against them in the days and artillery unleashed sus­Rashed, on the northeastern ahead." tained barrages on suspected edge of the Israeli-occupied en­The raids, the sixth and sev­Hezbollah strongholds. Five clave in southern Lebanon, fir­enth this year, came several people were killed and five ing at least two air-to-ground hours after the Iranian-backed wounded. 
Are you Unafraid
Sophomore 

of Hard Work?
Accounting Major? 




Do you Work Well With People? 
Then MaybeYou Would fJt 
Like to be the Assistant ~ 
Treasurer of the Student 
Body. 
• Earn a B.S. degree in nurn\ng

Student Government is looking for someone to help manage 
• Eligibility requirement: baccalaureate degree as of

and account for over $400,000. This position is in preparation 
May'95

for becoming the Student Body Treasurer the following year. 
• Programbegins May 30, 1995 and end!l]uly, 1996 

Applications and more information are available in the Student 
Application materials must be

Government office-2nd Floor LaFortune between 8:00-5:00. 
submitted by March 1, 1995. For more information contact, 

Applications due Friday, February 24 by 5:00 PM. 
Saint Mary's College Admission 

Questions? Call Shannon at 1-7417. 
Office at (219) 2.84-4587. 

If you see news happening, call The Observer at 631...5323. 

Accelerated Program in Nursing 
/ 

page 6 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, February 21, 1995 
Children, father found in Carolina murder 
Ill-fated health care touted 
By JULIANNE BASINGER 
Associated Press 
KILL DEVIL HILLS, N.C. 

Residents left flowers and notes on the blackened spot of pavement where the bodies of three murdered children were found in a burning van. Their father committed suicide near­by. 
Even Police Chief James Gradeless, a 20-year law en­forcement veteran who also served with Special Forces in Vietnam, was shaken by what he saw this weekend. 
"It's not a Kill Devil Hills story," Grade less said Monday. "It's an American story. It bothers all of our consciences because somewhere, some place, society has failed to pre­vent this kind of thing from happening." 
Douglas J. Mont. 35, died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound in the woods about 150 feet from the First Flight airport parking lot where the van was found early Sunday. 
The children were shot in the head with the same gun, they did not die in the fire, Gradeless said. 
The children's mother, Nancy Mont, had reported them miss­ing from their home in Seaford, Del., after they did not return from visiting their father. Cpl. Preston Lewis, spokesman for the Delaware State Police, con­firmed the identities of the chil­dren as Catrina J. Mont, 9; Daniel Preston Mont, 6; and Theresa Lynn Mont, 4. 
On Monday morning, a green basket of silk flowers had been placed at the scene of the fire with a sign saying "three little angels from Alex, Sam and Ray." The van and the bodies had been removed. 
Later, Sheila Scheck, who lives near the airport in Collington, visited the scene and returned with flowers. "May God Bless These Children," her arrangement said. 
The father "deserved a lot worse than he did to himself. I know that for sure," she said. "It was so close here and I've got a child of my own. I guess that's why it bothered me so much.'' 
Temperatures were so high in the van that metal melted in places. Even the license plate was destroyed. Only the frame remains in the police garage where it's being stored. 
"It's just sad," Gradeless said, choking up with tears. "I tell you, when this is all over, I'm going to need some debrief­ing myself." 
Almost as sad were the calls the police department received from people across the country whose children are missing. 
"These things are always tragedies," said Dr. Page Hud­son, state medical examiner in Greenville. "I see parents de­stroy themselves and their chil­dren when things like this hap­pen. Children and custody of children are always at the cen­ter of things like this." 
Ms. Mont reported the chil­dren missing Saturday evening, after they did not return from a regular visitation with their father, a bank employee. The couple has been separated since August. 
The fire in the Ford Aerostar was spotted about 1:30 a.m. Sunday by a passer-by living in a subdivision near the airport, said Dare County spokesman Charlie Hartig. Firefighters did not discover the children inside until after they had extin­guished the flames. 
Police searching for clues af­ter the fire found a man lying on his stomach in the woods. When they asked him to put his hands up, he raised his right hand in the air, raised a hand­gun to his ear with his left hand and shot himself, Gradeless said. He was later identified as Mont. 
The last murder in Kill Devil Hills, a drug-related arson death, occurred in 1978, Gradeless said. The town has a population of 4,200. 
Despite results, Clinton extolls workers' efforts 
By JOHN SOLOMON Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
The White House touted the long hours and sacrifices of those who crafted its ill-fated health care plan, but it turns out that the work brought healthy rewards for a small cadre of advisers and contrac­tors. 
Some businesses got six-fig­ure contracts. For select advis­ers, there were con­sulting fees as high as $49 an hour, allowing some to · earn up to $100,000, according to Clinton an As­sociated Press review of gov­ernment records. 
The payments were made in spite of a warning from White House lawyers to use fulltime government employees, not consultants. 
The Clinton administration has declined to say how much was spent developing its health care plan. The new Republican Congress has begun its own review. 
Hillary Rodham Clinton, in a tribute to task force workers in the spring of 1993, likened their labors to the "planning for the Normandy invasion." She extolled their sacrifices and the "all nighters" they pulled in the Old Executive Office Building. 
But amid the ruins of Presi­dent Clinton's Health Security Act, records obtained by The Associated Press under the Freedom of Information Act lay bare a multimillion-dollar hired bureaucracy. 

The primary beneficiaries were professional consultants, with specialties ranging from projecting long-term health costs to writing arcane legisla­tive language. 
Some sandwiched stints in the private world between work for the executive branch or Congress. 
In all, the White House tapped about 1,000 people for work and advice on the plan. Most of the high-profile experts worked for free. 
The few who were paid were members of a White House in­ner circle, hired as consultants for an extended period to work on Mrs. Clinton's health task force and working groups and beyond -although White House lawyers cautioned against it. 
"To avoid ethical difficulties, the members of the cluster groups, and especially the heads of issue working groups, must be full government em­ployees," aide Atul Gawande wrote health czar Ira Maga­ziner in a Feb. 2, 1993, memo obtained by AP. 
Gawande said the White House counsel's office had ad­vised that payments were "not clearly in violation of any law" but it "would give antagonists leverage for attacking us in the press and possibly in legal channels." 
Avis LaVelle, assistant secre­tary for public affairs at HHS, said the consultant payments were necessary to attract top­caliber advice without expand­ing the permanent federal work force. 
"These people brought a high level of expertise to government and their rate of pay was in line with (the) stan­dard federal pay package...." she said. "This is what people of this caliber are paid when they come to government ser­vice." 
Critics denounced the ar­rangement. 
"I think it is a very danger­ous trend to have this kind of private-public partnership where it insinuates into the very process of government corporations and individuals that stand to profit from it," said Dr. Jane Orient, head of the Association of American Physicians and Surgeons, which successfully sued to force the White House to dis­close working documents from the task force. 
At least a dozen advisers to Mrs. Clinton were paid between $33 and $49 an hour in consulting fees by the Department of Health and Human Services. 
Among the highest paid was Walter Zelman, a former Cali­fornia state official and activist for the citizens group Common Cause. He received $101,649 in consulting fees between January 1993 and March 1994, at a rate of $48.39 an hour, according to IIHS records. Zelman left the administration after the plan's defeat. 
Another top recipient of con­sulting fees was Brian Biles, who earned $97,950 over the same period. His work typifies that of many of the advisers. Biles, a former congressional staffer, began as a consultant and eventually was hired as a deputy assistant secretary at HHS. He recently left for the private sector. 
"This was all new policy and the analysis necessary to de­scribe the pros and cons was all new work," Biles said. "The work we have done has built a foundation" for future health reform debates. 
The AP identified at least 18 members of the working groups who were paid as HHS consultants. 


FEBRUARY 23, 24, 25 AT 8P.M. FEBRUARY 26 AT 2:30 P.M. LITTLE THEA 
TICKETS: $8/ADULTS; $6/SENIOR CITIZENS & GROUPS; $4/SMC-ND COMMUNITY; $3/STUDENTS TICKETS ON SALE AT THE SAINT MARY'S BOX OFFICE, LOCATED IN O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM. OPEN FROM 9-5, MON. -FRI. DISCOVER, VISA MASTERCARD ORDERS AT 219 I 284-4626 

"Mandate for the New Congress" 
Wednesday, February 22 
8p.m 

Stepan Center 
Tickets are now on sale at the LaFortune Box Office. 
Students $3 General Public $5 
Sponsored by the Office of Student Activities, SUB and Student Government 

~----.---------------~------~~--------------~----~-----------------------------­
VIEWPOINT 
•  D•JONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  •  QUOTE OF THE DAY  
I JU5T REMEMBtRCJJ.I I 6rrMY£-MAl/... AT 7H&' PU8l!C. LIBRARY/  ''Both read the Bible day and night, but thou read'st black when I read white."  
-William Blake  

Tuesday, February 21, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 

NoTRE DAME Oi'FICF.: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief jake Peters Managing Ec..litor Business Manager John Luca.• Joseph Riley 

News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advenising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Spons Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................Sean Gallavan Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Eiizabeth Regan Conuoller..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of eirher institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi· torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns presem the views of the authors, and not necessarily rhose of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry 01nd ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions rhrough leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General1nformation 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
• EDITORIAL 
A two-faced policy 
In the wake of yesterday's Campus Life Council meeting, it has become painfully clear that the administration's policy toward GLND/SMC is unacceptable. At the meeting, Vice President of Student Afl'airs Patricia O'Hara reiterated the administration's policies towards GLND/SMC, noting that the University has a "genuine desire" to affirm the presence of gay and lesbian stu­dents. In addition, O'Hara and the administration still steadfast­ly refuse to believe that the activities of GLND/SMC are worthy of any official recognition. 
It is two-faced to make such a supportive statement regarding the administration's decision to cut off student run meetings that have been held for nine years in the University Counseling Center. Through this decision, the administration offers two alternatives. Unfortunately, both are unacceptable to the people who need them the most. 
O'Hara suggests that students can meet their needs through two main outlets in the university-Campus Ministry and the University Counseling Center. But it is apparent that both groups are poorly equipped to support gay and lesbian students. 
According to John Blandford, co-chairman of GLND/SMC, stu· dents who have sought support in the past from Campus Ministry have unknowingly been "outed" to their parents. Particularly during the tenure of Father Tom McDermott, efforts were made to open a dialogue or outreach between GLND/SMC and Campus Ministry. but gay and lesbian students are under­standably wary of depending on Campus Ministry for support. 
The University Counseling Center has offered meeting space to GLND/SMC for nine years. O'Hara's excuse that she was never aware of the meetings is simply absurd. The Office of Student Affairs manages "a lot of departments, and a lot of rooms,"' in her words, but it seems highly unlikely that GLND/SMC meetings could have gone unrecognized for so long, especially in light of the fact that UCC Director Patrick Utz was fully aware that the meetings were taking place. GLND/SMC even had a key for Room 300, where the meetings took place. 
Now, UCC seems unprepared to offer anything beyond one-on­one support-not the group setting that it is clear any other campus group needs. Even something as simple as the University Counseline, a confidential phone service sponsored by the UCC and the Psychology Club presents a contradiction in administration policy. The service offers advice to gays and les· bians and then actually directs them to seek more information by oll'ering the GLND/SMC address. 
At the conclusion of yesterday's meeting, the CLC managed to pass a resolution "objecting" to the recent actions. Like much of the other recent student outcry on the issue, it will probably go ignored. But before the resolution was passed, several CLC members amended the resolution, slightly changing the wording to condemn "the administration" rather than "the University." The difl'erence is that the University, meaning its students and faculty, has shown a willingness to become supportive toward gays and lesbians. The administration clearly has not. 
page 7 

• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
From bad to worse: Parking violations plague Parking Appeals Committee 
Dear Editor: 
Have you ever appealed a parking ticket at Notre Dame? You might be shocked to know how the current Appeals Committee operates. 
We all know that parking at this University is difficult. That is why we have a committee to review parking appeals. The committee is supposed to make prudential judgments about how to apply the rules to par­ticular cases, recognizing the extreme pressure the lack of adequate parking on campus places on students, faculty, and staff here. 
Yet in the last six months the current Parking Appeals Committee showed about as much wisdom and sense of jus­tice as a computer running the simple 'appeals rejection algo­rithm.' The committee current­ly consists of two students who do not have cars on campus, one professor whom I believe has a handicapped sticker (and therefore the best parking any· where she wants). one staff member who has a space reserved from her at the base of the building where she works, and one dorm rector. af­fect. 
Needless to say, none of these people is very inclined to be lenient: since a rule has always been broken, they always start with the gross attitude that the appeal is to be denied. 
We have denied appeals sev­eral times for students who have been told by guards at one of the gates to drive on campus without a pass. We penalize the students and charge them (to pay for the furnishings at the Security building, I suppose) because they didn't make the guards do their job right. 
Consider what happens to students who hardly ever use their car, but store it locally. These students usually assume-as any reasonable person would-that if you are not going to park in the student parking lots, you are not required to pay $40 for a stick­er intended for that purpose. The committee maintains that the letter of the campus law requires you to purchase a sticker if you drive here even once. or even if you never bring the car to campus. 
Then there is parking at Fischer. Officially, one cannot park at Fischer without a Fischer sticker. Unfortunately, this also means that according to the letter of the rule, you cannot even park at Fischer for an hour to visit someone to drop something off! But of course the literal interpretation of the rule is widely ignored, because it is totally unwork­able. But the committee denies appeals on these grounds­
without exception. 
You want constructive sug­gestions? First: only people who are exposed daily to the vicissi­tudes of an unworkable set of rules should be asked to figure out how to make them fair in the application to particular cases. Second: anyone who grants more than 75 % or grants less than 25 % of appeals per semester should be asked to serve their community in a capacity more com­mensurable with their judg­mental abilities. Third, don't give the money collected from student parking tickets to the Parking Office. Fourth and finally: screen these people you decide to appoint to the Appeals Committee. Find out what their attitudes are to some hypothetical cases before you put them in a position where you will be at their mercy if you make an honest mistake, or find yourself in an exceptional case, in trying to park on this campus. 
JOHN DAVENPORT 
Graduate Studenr and former GSU Rep. to rhe Parking Appeals Committee 


VIEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, February 21, 1995 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Listen to your feelings first Bible supports all types 
Dear Editor: 
Though we are pleased that you cared enough about our music to give it space in the paper, we didn't quite under­stand where the reviewer was coming from. 
1. 
What does a satirical joke about those 'I'm not a doctor.. .' commercials in relation to the self-image and desires of many Americans and our flaccid mass-media saturated pop-cul­ture society have to do with anarchy? 

2. 
"RedLine Metro" is about my sister, Carrie. It has nothing to do with 'society'. You see my sister likes to go to Georgetown all the time and my mom doesn't want her to. The song is about my sister being a teenag­er and how screwy that period of life is. The most important line of that song is ''I'm with you." It's something I had been meaning to say to Carrie and kept forgetting. 

3. 
"The dark world of emiLy's collective mind"? Hmmm.. .is that what's happen­ing after Doug's on his eigh­teenth cup of coffee, running around the house quoting lines from Red Dwarf and singing Queers' songs while teaching his cat Puck how to drink out of the faucet? 

4. 
Tactical sounds nothing like Alice in Chains, we like to think of it more like a Jawbox­influenced interpretation of Star Wars theme music. 

5. 
Mike and I can't stand the Sex Pistols, and Doug could care less about them. We defi­nitely don't sound like them. 

6. 
I have several dis­agreements with the political philosophy of Anarchism. Primarily, I don't think it would work because of the greed inherent in human nature. However, the point brought up by anarchists that this greed is a by-product of cultural condi­tioning, (i.e. the values needed if you are going to survive in a capitalist economy) is a good one. Do you have any idea what anarchism is, or what it's rela­tionship to underground music is? It's not just a pretty word to 



put in a review of a 'punk rock' band. Which brings me to my biggest point: 
7. We are not a punk band. Hardcore, maybe. Emo, 
Possibly.  Emil, most definitely.  
Dvorak  lovers,  obviously.  
Lovers  of  Toasties,  most  

assuredly. This, however, is a subtle point. Granted, I bandy the word about quite a bit, but usually only with people who would have no idea what l was talking about if I said melodic hardcore, indie-rokk, emo-core, jazz-core, or any of the more descriptive labels out there. 
8. 
"He Had a Loud mind" sounds absolutely nothing like the Sex Pistols. This song is also not anarchistic. It's my reaction to this whole Generation ekchs label that people our age have had foisted upon us. We cannot be defined, sloughing off labels like thrice worn tubesocks. I hope that our species is in the process of growing out of the need for categorization. 

9. 
"Listen to no one?" Great god! How would you ever get 


Hatred reigns at ND 
Dear Editor: 
The debate over University recognition of and respect for GLND/SMC is an important issue as Notre Dame attempts to move ahead into the twenty-first century as a well respected and in­fluential institution. The University's position on GLND/SMC is a detriment to that goal, and should be changed. 
The atmosphere on campus surrounding this issue is especially disturbing. An irrational hatred for homosexuals seems to be the predominant attitude, and even scarier, the accepted attitude. Why is it that we as a society still consider it acceptable to hate an entire class of people simply because of who they are? 
Religious conviction is no excuse for this demeanor. No matter how one cloaks it in religious ideas, hatred is still a vile and destructive attitude. Hiding behind the Bible in order to justify big­otry and discrimination is an old tactic, but is still cowardly and divisive. I, as a Catholic who tries to live according to the teach­ings of Jesus Christ, find this tactic to be especially offensive. 
This hatred is a cancer which is eating away at the very fabric of our University. Until we accept the fact that homosexuals are human beings with human feelings, we cannot consider ourselves a truly Catholic university. As Robert Kennedy said in a speech at the University of Cape Town on South Africa's Day of Affirmation: "We must recognize the full human equality of all our people­before God, before the law ... not because the laws of God com­mand it, although they do, [but] for the single and fundamental reason that it is the right thing to do." 
If the University is truly committed to ending harassment of homosexuals, as it claims, it must set an example to the students. Despite what it may think, by not recognizing homosexuals as a part of the Notre Dame community, the Administration is giving tacit approval to the hatemongers who would continue to discrimi­nate against this segment of society. 
WILLIAM CARNEY 
Sophomore 
Dillon Hall 
anything done? Brownian motion never wrote a sonnet. Cooperation and collaboration are key. Come on, these auto­matic descriptions of what you think our music is, based on unreflective stereotypical notions of what "punk" music are really becoming tiresome. 
I'm sorry to be so harsh, but I was motivated to write this let­ter because the misinterpreta­tion of what emiLy is about was so enormous. We are not about anger and anarchy and hate (though I do admit, anger is often a motivating point). We are more about attempting to be a real person in a world pre­occupied with the fake. It's about questioning the received view. 
Do us a favor: listen to us with your insides, not your book of references, especially if you're not familiar with the musical styles and cultural ideas we're influenced by. 
JOE CANNON Notre Dame '94 
of love, even homosexual 
Dear Editor: 

I am writing in response to the letter that was published on February 10, by Mr. Brian Berry. Mr. Berry cited several passages from the Bible, I assume to support his view that homosexuality is against biblical teaching, and thus against the mission of the University. I write to challenge Mr. Berry and those who use God's word as a means to condemn homosexuality. 
Homosexuality as we know it today is not discussed at all in the Bible. I define a gay or lesbian relationship to be one in which two people of the same sex fall in love with each other and engage in a mutually, consenting emotional and sexual relationship. 
Mr. Berry cites the passage in which God Destroys Sodom and Gommorrah, because, as some people think, homosexual activity was going on in those towns. The Genesis text explains that the men of Sodom try to use force to enter Lot's house. They are vio­lent and brutal. The people of Sodom had turned from God and were judged for that, not because of any homosexual behavior. 
Mr. Berry then cites one of only three passages discussing same sex relationships in the New Testament. The translation he uses says, "Do not be deceived: neither fornicators nor idolaters ... nor practicing homosexuals ... will inherit the kingdom of God." If our notion of two people of the same sex having a mutually consenting relationship was being practiced in ancient times then it should be mentioned in either Greco-Homan, Jewish, or Christian writings, but it isn't. Jesus never mentioned it. 
I respectfully submit these ideas to the Notre Dame community. GLND/SMC should be allowed to advertise and meet on campus. Believers in Christ and his message of love and liberation should examine the Bible, should understand the practice that was really written about. 
KATHERINE SINGER 
First Year Law Student 

Pro-choice advocates really pro-abortion 
Dear Editor: 

This is in response to Jim Lambe's letter to the editor (Wednesday, l 5 February 1995) which states that pro-lifers at­tempt to proclaim some sort of moral authority by imposing their view by sidewalk counseling and by referring to "pro-choicers" as "pro-abortion". 
In regards to sidewalk counseling: I was involved in pro-life activity for two years before I decided to even step outside a clinic. It was only after I realized the extent to which abortion hurts women and the extent to which most women are not making a truly autonomous decision, that I felt a duty to go out to sidewalk counsel. 
In regards to pro-choice v. pro-abortion: It seems odd to me that people who support abortion rights are troubled by being associ­ated with the very act they seek to defend. Advocates of gay rights do not mind being called "pro-gay.'' I have never heard a pro-gay supporter say: "I support the rights of gays, but not gays.'' If you believe abortion is a right, why do you mind being called pro­abortion? 
MAUREEN KRAMLICH 
Sophomore 
Walsh Hall 

Leick or"progress shatters support 
and lesbian· alumni organiza­

A ttl t~des from ~f~~s~~ga~v::n;~~n:;~~~~ 
tion with over 400 members, bJan issues. The Father is never mentioned in the ~70s dictate Btirtchaei incident was report· alumni publications. The ed on the editorial pages of newsletter's Multicultural I• • t d theSeattle Times, but nothing Calendar manages to ignorepo lczes 0 ay was ever said to alumni. Why gay and lesbian events on ani I not surprised? campus. Is it any wonder that Dear Editor: The last two pages of the I have little interest in Wi.th grE~at. dismay, l ha\'(:) most recent Alumni responding to financial solici­learnedthat the University has Newsletter (January 1995)are tations which arrive every few 
evicted the lesbian/gay stu­devoted to Black, Asian, and months? 
dents association.Jron1 the Hispanic~American alumni. I I salute the lesbian and gay 
counseling center. Obviously applaud their efforts to orga­students at Notre Dame. In 
there has not been much nize. l hope they can influence spite of the ignorance and 
progress ;:tt Our Lady's hypocrisy of the university, 
University since the early 70's }lundreds, maybe thousands, 
when we founded Notre Dame of well-adjusted lesbians and
'Isalute the les.bian

Gay Liberation. gays have graduated from
and gay students at 
Back .the11,. several priests l\Jotre Dame. 
NQtre Dame. In· spite of 
and professors advised us to · We can only hope that disband fearing the university the ignorance and through your struggle, some­would never grant us degree~. hypocrisy of the univer­day lesbian and gay students We could· not hold dances or sity, hundreds, maybe and. alumni will be welcomed social events on campus. into the "Notre Dame family"
thousands, of well­

There were even vague and eviction from campus will
adjusted lesbians ang
threats of personal violcnce be inconceivable. Be assured 
from other students. gays have graduated"' that plenty of alumni are The university would not from Notre Dame.' watching the outcome of this 

--------~-~~----------­
ACCENT 
Tuesday, February 21, 1995 
page 9 

• HELPING HANDS 
Sophomore Class Service Project makes good neighbors 
Class project serves Northeast Neighborhood 
By DANA RUSSO Accent Writer 
T
his semester has marked the bnginning of the Sophomore Class Service Project: youth mentoring at the Northeast Neighborhood Center. The Northeast Neighborhood was adopted as the host charity arna of the Class of '97 last ymtr, and thn Center was chosen by the class council in part be­cause it l'unetions as an umbrel­la organization, similar to the United Way, sponsoring pro­grams providing social, recre­ational, health, legal, and other needed community services to its residents. Formerly a fire station built on land donated by the University, the Center, locat­
ed at 803 North Notre Dame Av­Courtesyo!BrianTiemey 

mwe, is currently in the process Members of the sophomore class and their Northeast Neighborhood pals. 
of renovation with the help of Notre Dame and Saint Joseph's Medical Center. Sinee 1968 it has served as a nucleus for charitable activities in a neighborhood which is overridden with drug abuse, unemployment, and broken families. The Northeast Neighborhood Center is based on a tradition of people helping one another, and the sophomore class decided to jump on the band­wagon. 
Last semester the Class of '97 put forth great effort in a neighborhood revitalization project which involved planting tulip and daffodil bulbs, collect­ing litter, and removing bulk trash from residents' homes. One of the main pur­poses of "Fall Fest '94" was to clear va­cant lots in hopes of reducing crime. Heeognizing that there were many areas in which their services were need­ed (including similar clean-up projects and tutoring), the council decided to focus on the program in need of greatest assistance. Senior Karen DuBay, who is the CSC liaison to the Northeast Neighborhood, suggested the youth rnentoring program. 
There are approximately 25 energetic children who head over to the Center after finishing school on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday afternoons. Ms. 
Debra Turner, the equally energetic Activity Director for the program, had previously been conducting the tutoring program on her own; as this was no easy task, she graciously accepted the help of the sophomore volunteers when they began their visits. 
Since its recent initiation, the sopho­mores have reserved Wednesdays and Fridays for youth mentoring. There have been about seven to 10 students volun­teering each time, and new volunteers are always welcome. Wednesday is "library day," when the students spend time practicing reading with individual children. Every Friday, "games and music day," they help the kids with arts and crafts, put puzzles together, play games such as checkers and "Hungry, Hungry Hippos," and enjoy cookies and juice. The Notre Dame students have already donated a cassette player, enabling them to sing with the children as well. Sophomore Class Council Ser­vice Commissioner Brian Tierney ex­plains, "Our hope is that just by playing with them and helping them with their projects, we might serve as positive role models." He is hoping to expand the program to Monday afternoons as soon as enough interest develops. 
As Ms. Turner explained, each school 
month is given a certain theme, and the 
activities for that month center around 
that theme. February's theme of "Love 
is in the Air" includes a section on Black 

History. The goals for this month are 
making friends and remembering the 
past. In one activity intended to promote 
these goals, the kids formed a circle on 
the floor and were asked to say one 
thing that they liked about themselves 
and one thing that they liked about the 
person sitting beside them. The objec­
tive was to "give them a good self-con­
cept." 

All of the children at the Center, who 
range in age from three to 12, come 
from underprivileged homes. Few live 
with both parents, and many live with 
grandparents or other relatives. "When I 
hadn't seen one boy at the Center," 
Tierney comments, "I asked the next 
week where he had gone. He said he 
went to see his dad. Foolishly, I asked 
where that might be, and he responded, 
'The state penitentiary."' Brian's story 
demonstrates the reality and the seri­
ousness of the problems the children 
face. Some of the children barely know 
how to read or spell their names, even 
at 8 years of age. Most of them have no ·concept of college. The project the children are currently 
working on is a Black History Month program to be held this Friday at the Center at 5:00 p.m. The kids have been working hard over the past couple of weeks preparing for the show, which will be open to the public, and many sophomores will be there to sup­port their little friends. Under Ms. Turner's direction they sing songs such as the Black National Anthem -"Lift Every Voice and Sing," and "Swing Low, Sweet Chariot." Each child, dressed in an African cos­tume, also performs individually. Some are acting out skits, others are reading reports on famous African-Americans, and a third­grader named Wilson is reading excerpts from Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.'s "I Have a Dream" speech. The program is sure to be a success. 
When asked why he participates in this program, sophomore Tony Pohlen replied, "I just love kids. I am applying for the Big Brother program, and I thought this would be good experience." After her first time mentoring, Kim Shiely re­marked, "The kids really ap­
preciate us spending our time with them. Even though it doesn't seem like much to us, you can tell it means a lot to them." Tierney echoes her sentiments. "Just by being friends with the children, we show them that they can easily do as much and more than we can. They love the individual attention, and I think it makes a difference that they see us re­ally caring about them. We have become very attached to the kids, and they have grown extremely affectionate toward us in this short amount of time." The youngest child at the Center, Victoria, enjoys being held by the volun­teers so much that she regularly falls asleep in their arms! 
The Class of '97 has already made a difference to the children of the Northeast Neighborhood. Ms. Turner commented, "I think they are doing a great job. The kids are not only getting a lot out of them being there, but they like them, too!" 
If you or any of your friends are inter­ested in contributing to the Sophomore Class Service Project, meet at the Main Circle or in Room 161 Alumni on Wednesdays and/or Fridays. A CSC van leaves from the circle at 2:30 and 3:30. If you have any questions please call Brian at 634-1058 . 
• , : '.'BERSURF 
Netlurkers of the world, unite and take over 
By AARON VILLARUZ 
Accent Writer 
S
o, you want to be a Net lurker? First you have to familiarize yourself with news groups. Anyone who is anyone on the Internet regular­ly reads and posts messages on their favorite news groups. News groups are forums for diseussion on any and all top­ies, from the Kobe quake to the latest gossip on "Days of Our Lives." Think of news groups as a giant, computerized bulletin hoard. There is a ehaotic hier­archy to the news group sys­tem; groups are divided up by area and subject in an increas­ingly specific manner until there is a focus on a specific subjeet. 
Example: Say you want to find out where the next Star Trek convention is taking place (there are some who do). The most appropriate news group wouldbe" rec. arts.startrek.fan­dom". The "rec" stands for recreation, and that group is divided into specific areas such as arts, food, games, music, and humor. Other areas include "comp," which has to do with everything computers, "news," and "elari," both of which are true news groups in that they provide information on current events rather than random gossip, and the ever popular "alt," which stands for alternative; this is a kind of anything goes division. Here you find discussions on every­thing from the Brady Bunch to Anne Hice. 
There are literally hundreds of news groups on as many subjects; at last count there were six devoted solely to Star Trek, 31 devoted to sports, and about 50 devoted to random (from Piers Anthony to Amy Fisher). For music fans, there is a whole slew of news groups, covering everything from spe­cific genres of music (ska to Gregorian chant) to specific artists (Jimmy Buffett to Danzig). Movie lovers can up­to-the-minute information and gossip on their favorite flicks from news groups. Computer geeks can delight in the dozens of news groups devoted to their favorite subject, from UNIX to DOOM. Bonsai enthusiast? We got you covered. Debbie Gibson fan? Check. Beastie Boys? Got it. Love SPAM? Yep, it's all right here. Looking for a date? You can access hundreds of personal ads with a keystroke. 

Users post and read thou­sands of messages everyday. Luckily, there are filters which allow you to skip all of the irrelevant articles that get post­ed. Imagine thousands of peo­ple trying to get their two cents in on a specific subject. It's what democracy is all about. Discussions can become rather heated, and taking sides on an issue often results in "flame wars," in which nasty notes are sent back and forth. On one oc­casion, an Internet user got on someone's bad side and was flamed by over 200 messages. But for most users, news groups are just a casual forum for discussion of issues such as whether or not Bo is going to ever marry Billie on "Days" or whether Killian's Red is better than Guinness. 
It's not all fun and games, however; besides being one of the closest things to a party you could experience in the Com­puter Lab (there are other things, but they can wait until the next article), news groups are also an invaluable resource for up-to-the-minute news and events. The "clarinet" news server provides postings on the stock market, labor law and just about anything else you might need information on. 
One might ask, "How do I tap into this vast and useful re­source?" There are a variety of methods. The fastest, but not the easiest way to get access to News groups, is through UNIX. There are a variety of news readers on the UNIX machines, but the most popular are "tin" and "rn." For the less ambi­tious user, a user-friendly interface like "Newswatcher" is 
News groyp sampler 
alt.personals rec.arts. tv.soaps.nbc alt.music.ska alt.fan.jimmy-butTett alt. fan .beastie-boys rec.games.computer.doom rec.books.anne-rice clari.biz.market clari.news.briefs comp.sys.ibm.pc.games 

a good bet. So plug in, poke around and find your own little news group niche. 
Cybersurf by Aaron Villaruz appears every other Tuesday in the Accent section. 

----------------------------------~-----------------------­
page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, February 21, 1995 
•NBA •NHl 
Magic destroy Bucks 152-104 Brodeur and Joseph 
Associated Press Pistons 99, Kings 93 Heat 1 03, Cavs 96 
shut down opposition 
MILWAUKEE 
Shaquille O'Neal scored 30 points and Anfernee Hardaway added 25 as the Orlando Magic established the largest margin of victory in team history with a 152-104 beating of the Milwaukee Bucks on Monday night. 
O'Neal scored 19 of his points in the first half as the Magic snapped a four-game road los­ing streak. 
Orlando beat Philadelphia 129-83 last Friday for the pre­vious record and was only three points shy of tying the team record for points in a game. The Magic beat the Utah Jazz 
155-116 on December  30,  
1990.  
Todd  Day  and  Glenn  

Robinson each had 22 points as the Bucks tied a club-record for largest margin in a defeat that was set in a 144-96 loss to the Jazz on Jan. 27, 1990. 
Horace Grant had 18 points and 12 rebounds, and O'Neal, leading the NBA in scoring with a 29.5 average, sat out the fourth quarter as the Magic swept the four-game series against the Bucks. 
Orlando led 74-46 at the half by making 15 of 24 shots for 
62.5 percent, while the Bucks made 7 of 21 for 33.3 percent. 

Joe Dumars completed a four­point play to break a late tie and lead the Detroit Pistons to a 99-93 victory over the Sacramento Kings on Monday night. 
The loss ended Sacramento's three-game winning streak and cost the Kings a chance to go nine games over .500 for the first time since April 15, 1983, when the franchise was still in Kansas City. 
The Pistons broke a three­game losing streak, winning for the eighth time in 10 home games. 
Detroit led by two points at the half, but missed 14 of its next 16 shots and fell behind 62-58. 
The Pistons scored just 13 points in the quarter, but Sacramento only scored 17 and led 68-66 after the third quar­ter. 
Detroit tied the game at 72 with 10:13 to play, and after nine lead changes, Spud Webb hit his tenth straight shot to make it 87-87 with 3:12 to go. 
After the teams traded bas­kets, Dumars hit a 3-pointer from the right corner as he was fouled by Mitch Richmond. Dumars, who finished with 14 points, made the free throw to complete the rare four-point play. 
Glen Rice, the NBA's 3-point shooting champion, hit six 3­pointers and scored 36 points Monday night as the Miami Heat beat the Cleveland Cavaliers 103-96. 
Alvin Gentry earned his sec­ond NBA coaching victory since replacing Kevin Loughery on Feb. 14 as Miami snapped a three-game losing streak. Cleveland, which entered the game 1/2-game behind Charlotte in the Central Division, had a three-game winning streak halted. 
Rice, who won the 3-point shooting championship during the NBA's All-Star weekend, was 6-for-10 on 3-pointers and Miami was 9-for-15. 
The Heat overcame a 50-47 halftime deficit by outscoring the Cavaliers 31-23 in a third quarter that turned into a 3­point contest. The final five field goals of the quarter were 3-pointers -two each by Rice and Cleveland's Steve Colter and one by the Cavaliers' Danny Ferry. 
The successful long-distance shooting continued in the fourth quarter as Kevin Gamble hit Miami's first two field goals from long range and the Heat opened an 80-70 lead. 
Associated Press 

LANDOVER, Md. 
Martin Brodeur made 27 saves for his fourth career shutout and extended his unbeaten streak to eight games as the New Jersey Devils defeated the Washington Capitals 2-0 Monday. 
Tom Chorske's second goal of the season, a deflection in the first period, was all the offense the Devils needed to win their second road game in eight tries this season. 
John MacLean added an empty-net goal late in the game after Washington pulled goal­tender Olaf Kolzig for an extra skater. 
Brodeur improved to 4-0-0 lifetime against the Capitals, who have not posted consecu­tive victories for the first time this season. In his last eight games, Brodeur is 6-0-2. 
His last shutout was 4-0 over Dallas at home March 13, 1994. 
Washington, 1-5-1 in its last seven games, outshot New Jersey 27-25 but tested Brodeur only occasionally. 
The Capitals didn't get their first shot of the game until 7:44 had elapsed. In the second pe­riod, the Devils' defense held Washington without a shot for the first five minutes. 
The Caps have been shut out three times in 14 games this season. Two of the shutouts have been at home. 
Blues 4, Oilers 0 

Curtis Joseph recorded his fifth career shutout and Craig Johnson and Brett Hull each had a goal and an assist as the St. Louis Blues continued their home mastery over the Edmonton Oilers with a 4-0 vic­tory Monday night. 
The Blues have not lost to Edmonton at home since Jan. 2, 1990. The Blues have com­piled a 7-0-1 home record, and are 11-1-2 overall against the Oilers during that stretch. Joseph blocked 21 shots in notching his first shutout of the season. 
The Blues led 2-0 after the first period on goals by Adam Creighton and Hull. 
Creighton scored at 8:52 when he deflected a shot by Craig Johnson from just inside the blue line past goalie Bill Hanford. 
Hull scored his 12th goal at 
13:02 from point-blank range on a shot that sailed over Hanford's left shoulder. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
Robin Hood Showing Thursday LaFortune's Montgomery Theatre 8/1030 pm $1 
Farley Hall Players Present: 
Euripides' MEDEA A New Translation by Brendan Kennelly 
Performances begin at 8:00pm on: Saturday. Feb. 25th Sunday, Feb. 26th Monday, Feb. 27th At the Loft in Lafortune 
Tickets are $4 at the Lafortune Info Desk 
Ramada Inn of Elkhart has rooms for Graduation weekend. Minimum stay of two nights required. $125 advance deposit per room. Conveniently located at 80/90 Toll Road, 15 miles from Campus. Send request by mail to 3011 Belvedere Ad, Elkhart, IN 46514 or fax to 219­262-1590. 
FREE LAUNDRY! II 
Saturday (2125) and Sunday (2126) 
in LaFortune and Badin Annex 
HURRY UP and reseiVe your two 
hour time slot this Wed., Thurs., or 
Fri. at the LaFortune info desk. 
SPACE IS LIMITED!II 
Used Texts Cheap!! Check out 
Pandora's Books 233-2342 
NO ave & Howard st 1 0-6 m-sat 
9-3 sundays 
Love Affair 
Showing this Fri & Sat 
8/10:30$2 
Cushing Auditorium 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST LIZARD!! LOST LIZARD!! 
I lost a gecko lizard earring, silver, 
one and a half inches long, 
sometime on Monday, somewhere 
on campus. Please call 
Liz @ 287-7444. 
HELP! I've lost my 18 inch gold necklace with oval-shaped pendant that has the initial "L" inside. It has great sentimental value. If you've found it, please call Llza @ X4991 
FOUND: Woman's wrist watch. On stairs between North dining hall & Flanner, at 9 a.m. wednsday 2/15. Call to identify! Justin at X1765. 
LOST WATCHI!I!I I lost my watch in O'Shag room 208 last Thursday, 2-16. It has a white face with a wide black band. The numbers are unique. It's very important to mel Please call Nancy, 277-0655. 
FOUND: miraculous medal on Fri. AM near the ACC. Call Maureen at X3295 to claim. 
LOST: A LONG BLACK WOMAN'S PERRY ELLIS COAT AT SR. BAR ON FRI. FEB. 10 (FISHER-WALSH DANCE) PLEASE CALL CINDY AT 273-5399 WITH ANY INFO.­REWARD!II!! 
WANTED 
Spring Break! Bahamas Party Cruise 6 Days $2791 Includes 12 
Meals & 6 Free Parties! Great Beaches & Nightlife! A HUGE Party! Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights Air & Hotel From $4291 Spring 
Break Travel1-800-678-6386 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800· 786-8373 
SUMMER JOBS-COUNSELORS & STAFF BOYS SPORTS CAMP/MASS. TOP SALARY RM/BD/LAUNDRY, TRAVEL ALLOWANCE. MUST HAVE SKILL IN ONE OF THE FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES: Archery, Baseball, Basketball, Drums, Football, Golf, Guitar, Ice Hockey, Lacrosse, Lifeguard, Nature, Nurses, Photography, Piano, Pool, Rocketry, Rollerblading, Ropes, Sailing, Scuba, Secretary, Soccer, Tennis, Track, Video, Waterski, Windsurfing, Weights, Wood, Yearbook. Call or write: Camp Winadu, 2255 Glades Rd., Suite 406E, Boca Raton, FL 33431, (800)494-6238 Recruiter will be on campus DATE: 3/6 TIME: 10:00am­4:00pm PLACE: Dooley Room -Lafortune. STOP BY-No appoint­ment needed. 

CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­Earn up to $2,000+/month working on Cruise Ships of Land-Tour com­panies. World travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.). Seasonal and full-time employment available. No experience neces­sary. For more information call1­206-634-0468 ext C55843 
Florida's Spring Break Hotspots! PANAMA CITY OCEANVIEW ROOM WITH KITCHEN $129! WALK TO BEST BARS! Cocoa Beach (Near Disney)-27 acre Deluxe Beachfront Resort 7 Nights $159! Key West $229! Daytona Room with Kitchen From $12911­800-678-6386 
RUN YOUR OWN BUSINESS, GAIN VALUABLE EXPERIENCE WHILE BUILDING YOUR RESUME. EARN UP TO $10,000 (25 JOBS) HIGH DEMAND PROD­UCT, IRRIGATION SALES AND INSTALLATION. BE A LEADER: VEHICLE REQUIRED CALL STU­DENT SPRINKLERS AT 1-800­265-7691 
TENNIS JOBS-SUMMER BOYS CAMP-NORTHEAST-LOOKING FOR STAFF WITH GOOD TENNIS BACKGROUND WHO CAN TEACH CHILDREN TO PLAY TENNIS. GOOD SALARY, ROOM & BOARD, TRAVEL ALLOWANCE. CALL OR WRITE: CAMP WINADU, 2255 GLADES RD., SUITE 406E, BOCA RATON, FL 33431 800-494­6238. RECRUITER WILL BE ON CAMPUS 3/6-DOOLEY ROOM­LAFORTUNE 
Painters, Foremen, and Managers­
Call College Pro Painters at 1 (800) 
346-4649. 
FOR RENT 
Wanted: 
5 students for completely remod­
eled home. Close to N.D. large rec. 
room, washer and dryer, security 
system. Rent for summer school 
and/or fall semester. Call NOW 
277-0636 
HOMES FOR RENT 
NEAR CAMPUS 
232-2595 
FOR SALE 

CONDO NEAR NOTRE DAME Immaculate Condo with the latest decor and sharper than new. Call Harold Zeltwanger 291-9338 or ERA All Star Realty 255-8789. 
OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered at $85,900. First floor location. Finished basement with full lavato­ry. Two bedrooms and two baths on ground level. Lease back to owner through May, 1995. Call (616)946-0700. 
TICKETS 
$$$$ Need 4 Marquette GA's Call Ted x3402 $$$$ 
Help! My father is coming from NY for the Marquette game -I NEED ONE GA FOR MARQUETIE GAME Please Call Pat x1130 -Thanks. 
Need MARQUETIE tix-student or GA's. Call Sharon @ 3490. 
PERSONAL 
000 The Copy Shop 000 LaFortune Student Center 
WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE, & WEEKENDS FOR YOUR CONVENIENCEIII 
Phone 631-COPY 
TIRED OF READING? INFOTAINMENT SUPER-HYPE­WAY TOO JAMMED UP? THEN LISTEN TO WVFI AM 640 NEWS @4:30 EACH SCHOOL DAY. 
ATIENTION FRESHMAN! Come find out what the coolest organization on campus is all about, the 
SPORTS MANAGERS 
ORGANIZATION Info meeting, WED, 2122 8:00pm in Loftus (behind and N of JACC) 
Wanted: A Single Father of a Sophmore student in his late 40's Early 50's to be set up with my mother on a blind date during soph­more parents weekend. She is Blond and fairly petite with a great personality. If interested, call 284·5521 To Megan & Amy (2 'Wonder"-ful frosh in Lyons)­Thanks for joining me on my trip to XU this weekend. We'll have to do it again and continue our discussion on supermodels, "dealing" w/guys, Looney Toons underwear, life's little tragedies and marine biology. See you "boys" around! 
-Caimien 
p.s. Next time we're brown-bagging it and bringing jumper cables! 
WATCH JENNY JONES ON 
MARCH 1ST-its on at 4:00 on WGN. See Nate dog on Luther! 
********••••*HELP!"********•••••••• 
I need a ride one-way to 
Philadelphia for Spring Break. Willing to share expenses. Call Meg @ x-1255 
REMEMBER!!! Toastmasters 

meets every Tuesday night. 222 Hayes-Healy 
-ALL WELCOME­
-BUILD YOUR RESUME­
Join Toastmasters Club 
public speaking organiz. 
•relaxed 
atmosphere 

•improve 
speaking skills 

•improves 
resume 


222 Hayes Healy 
Tuesday nights 7·8 p.m. 
See you tonight! 
DESPERATELY NEEDED: 
Ride to Pittsburgh on March 3rd for weekend. Please help. Call Laurie at x4096 -Thank You! 
POF the Magic Dragon 
Lived in the Sea ... 
... Little Jackie Paper 
Loved that Rascal POF! 
LOSE WEIGHT FOR SUMMER -I lost over 20 lbs., went from a size 9 to a 3 in 8 weeks, without drugs/diets/exercise! All-natural product-guaranteed results! Kelly (800)209-2150. 
HEY LADIES!I 

Sean Mee is 22 todayl 
Call him up at x1694 and wish him 
a Happy Birthday, or come by 611 
Grace and see him. 
The Mack Is ready and waiting. 
Scoe, S.P.I.Y.C. wants you. 
If there are any gals interested in C!W or line dancing, call the Kid at x1694 
Alii want to know, Sal Paradise, is who you are. Send me a place and a time. JK 

SMC Sophomores • interested in joining members of your class off campus for a retreat March 24-25? Come to the informational meeting Tues. Feb. 21st at 7:30 in Holy Cross Parlor. We hope to see you there! Any questions, call Amy at X4315 or Sam at X5015. 
Im-mun-o-glob-u-lins .... ? 
i didn't know meat was a delicatessan...i thought it was a cafe. 

hey ... nice bowling form. who knew wiping out was a requirement to bowl a strike !! anyone up for roller skating? 
BITS ... PART2 

############################ 
-"please read this as quickly and accurately as possilbe." -did anyone know T wiped out? she's got a bruise to prove it. -are you sure there was double­cheek contact? i don't think so. -Beerman is the ultimate pre-date II -beer + sudafed =dear... -SK -any secrets? -JM -eyesight problems? -thanx for the serenade ...Honey. -maybe next time you'll make it to the dance, A. -nice shoes, BB. feet a little cold? -congrats TK, LC, EL.only you guys made it !II -thanx for the 1/2 ticket, T. -it's only 12:30 & we're staying thirsty. -and the 'crow in the bar' said, "i love the Texas flag!!" -Bickell! 
############################ 
Another FUN night girls and dates!!! Will the "streak" ever stop? who knows. Can't wait 'til next time. Osco's, here we come Ill 
and the magic number is down to !!!16 Ill (weehoo) 
Tuesday, February 21, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALl 
Kansas unable to stay number one Matchup key for 
By OWEN CANFIELD 
Associated Press 
NORMAN, Okla. 

Kansas just isn't meant to play games the same day it's voted the No. 1 team in college basketball. 
Last season, the Jayhawks lost to Kansas State hours after moving up to the top spot. It happened again Monday night, when No. 25 Oklahoma beat them 76-73, assuring another likely change in the No. 1 spot next week. 
"That was a great example of hanging in there, playing with great heart, of stick-to-it-ive­ness," Sooners coach Kelvin Sampson said. 
"I thought Kansas played hard and played well, but I thought Oklahoma tonight was a better basketball team." 
Oklahoma (20-6, 7-4 Big Eight) fought back after Kansas (20-4, 9-3) had rallied to take a six-point lead with 8:45 to play. 
Ernie Abercrombie, just 3-of­9 from 3-point range this sea­son, hit a 3-pointer from the left corner to give the Sooners a 74-73 lead with 45 seconds left. 
Then Kansas, which killed itself by missing the front of three 1-and-1s in the final2:41, turned the ball over when Scot Pollard couldn't handle a pass inside. 
Hyan Minor, who scored 28 points, then made two free throws with 12 seconds remaining to widen the lead to three. Kansas got a 3-point try by Jerod Haase from the top of the key, but it bounced off the rim into the hands of Oklahoma guard John Ontjes, who drib­bled out the final few seconds to set off a celebration on court. 
"I talked to our kids about it," Kansas coach Roy Williams said of the No. 1 ranking. "You guys promote that stuff more than we do. I don't think it had any effect on my team." 
Kansas twice fell behind by 13 in the first half, in part because the Jayhawks got away from their inside game. The trio of Greg Ostertag, Raef LaFrentz and Pollard had dominated the Sooners in a 93-76 victory on Feb. 11, but those three com­bined for just 10 shots in the first half. 
Meanwhile, Kansas tried 19 shots from 3-point range and made only five. 
"There's no way we should be shooting 19 3-point shots with the size advantage we have over Oklahoma," Williams said. "Give them credit. They did a good job defensively. But just because they're playing defense doesn't mean we have to shoot it." 
After the poor first half, Kansas came out inspired in the second half and it carried over to Williams. He was assessed a technical foul for leaving the bench to chew out a student who taunted Haase under the Sooners basket after he had dived out of bounds try­ing to save the ball. 

Williams said he thought the person had touched Haase. 
"It's the dumbest thing I have ever done," he said. "But at the same time I'm human and have the right to do some dumb things." 
Once they started dumping the ball inside, the Jayhawks got back into the game and made the outside game more effective. Pollard scored 10 points while Haase had two 3­pointers and B.J. Thomas and Sean Pearson one each in giv­ing the Jayhawks a 63-57 lead with 8:45 to go. 
Oklahoma righted itself from the perimeter. Dion Barnes hit two 3-pointers and Minor and Abercrombie hit baseline jumpers as the Sooners tied the score at 69 with 3:22 to go. 
Stickbacks by Pollard and LaFrentz widened the lead to 73-69 with 3:04 to go, but the Jayhawks didn't score again. Ontjes hit a jumper in the lane, then Abercrombie hit his big shot. 
"It was just a moment in the game," Abercrombie said. "I was open, we were down by two, and I hit it. That couldn't have been me out there." 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
GRADUATE STUDENT RETREAT 
Friday, March 3rd-Saturday, March 4th 8:00 p.m. (24 hours) 8:00p.m. 
A time of silence and reflection, companionship and conversation. The reflections will be offered principally by Graduate Students. 
Place: Mary's Solitude at the back of the St. Mary's College Campus. 
Deadline: Reservations will be confirmed with payment of $15.00 to cover costs. If you need financial assistance, please let us know. Please make reservations by February 23rd. 
Contact Fr. Nicholas Ayo, C.S.C., Fischer Residences 631-5873 
----or Sharon Harwell at Fischer Community Center 631-8607. 
--·­
Michigan and MSU 
Associated Press 
EAST LANSING, Mich. 

There won't be much time for sentiment Tuesday night when Michigan State coach Jud Heathcote sends his Spartans against Michigan for the last time. 
The game is too important for each team. 
"They're a game ahead of us in the standings, so we're just looking for a chance to compete with them," said Michigan coach Steve Fisher. "Then any­thing can happen." 
Michigan State is hoping to send Heathcote into retirement with a Big Ten championship. The Spartans lead the confer­ence with a 10-3 record but Purdue is second at 9-3 and Michigan and Minnesota are tied for third with 8-4 records. 
Heathcote said that the Michigan game doesn't have the buildup it once did because the two intrastate rivals no longer have a week to prepare for their meeting since the schedule was revised a few years ago to include Penn State. 
"It's no longer a Michigan week -it's a Michigan game," Heathcote said. "It's more like 'let's just go out and play.' They'll have a game plan and we'll have a game plan, but we don't have a week to prepare for them. 
"It's a big game, but I think the players just take it as an­other game that comes up dur­ing the course of the season." 
Michigan State, which dropped a 66-57 decision to Minnesota last Saturday, is hoping to avoid losing two games in a row for the first time this year. 
"Beat Michigan and this is all forgotten," Spartans' guard Shawn Respert said after the Minnesota game. ''I'm sure there were a lot of people who didn't expect us to win at Minnesota anyway. But when you lose two straight, that just gives everyone else confidence that we're starting to show some cracks. We can't let that happen." 
Michigan is coming off an im­pressive defensive performance in its 61-50 victory over Indiana in which the Wolverines held the Hoosiers to 30 percent shooting from the field. 
"Michigan is the best defen­sive club in the conference," Heathcote said. "They deny the ball. They double the post and they recover better than any­one in the conference. But they've struggled offensively just like the rest of us." 
The prospect of Michigan State looming ahead kept the Wolverines from enjoying their first series sweep of Indiana since 1988. 
"We don't have time to think about it," forward Ray Jackson said after beating the Hoosiers. "We've got to win at Michigan State." 
Cabreros 
continued from page 16 
"They have a different way of doing things up here." 
That different way includes not really upsetting the oppo­nent until after the match, which is a strategy that Cabreros plans to adopt this year. 
"It would be nice to avoid the same incident that occurred last year," he said. 
Or at least just the losing incident. 
Wednesday, February 22, 1995 4:30p.m. 120 Hayes..Healy 
All Freshmen Interested in Business and all Business Sophomores Welcome 

STUDY ABROAD IN TAIPEI OR BEIJING SPRING 1996, 
OR SPRING 1997 
INFORMATION MEETING WITH PROFESSORS DIAN MURRAY AND ALICE 
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1995 4:30P.M. 109 O'SHAUGHNESSY 


page 12 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, February 21, 1995 

Pyros on fire; Walsh scores Buster Douglas wants 
By JOE VILLINSKI us, so we're used to it," coach cut the lead to two. Freshman 
Tyson for his comeback 
Sports Writer Kent Anderson said. Kelly Nicholas then scored on a Lyons managed just two field drive down the length of the By RUSTY MILLER Russell, said Douglas' skills had goals in the first quarter and court to tie the score. Associated Press not diminished. 
Last night, the ladies of Lyons closed the game with only one Walsh's tough defense then "I spent some time with himHall were seeking the elusive 

COLUMBUS, Ohio
basket in the fourth quarter. allowed them to regain posses­and he's just as quick as hedouble championship season in Five years and 10 days after
As Lyons struggled, P.E. uti­sion, leading to two free throws ever was," Russell said. ''I'd bethe world of inter hall sports. 
stunning the boxing world with
lized quick passing and strong which clinched the game. more worried about Mike thanAfter winning the football title 
a knockout of Mike Tyson,
offensive rebounding to jump "Our intensity was up because I would be about James. Jamesin the fall, the basketball team 
James "Buster" Douglas said
out to a 14-6 lead at the end of we were excited to play in the has been with his family. He'shad made it to the final four of Monday he wants a rematch to
the first quarter. The Pyros arena for the championship," been on his boat, he's been re­the basketball playoffs against erase the memory of his even­
also limited Lyons to one shot Nicholas said. laxing and enjoying his life.
Pasquerilla East. 
tual "crash landing."

on most of their trips down the Walsh managed only one bas­With Mike, every day he's gotHowever, the Pyros crushed 
"I was on top the boxing
floor. ket in the first quarter as the someone telling him what to
that dream as they defeated world. I was fulfilling a
Lyons cut the score to 20-15 Blitz led 7-2 at the end of one wear, what to eat and when to
Lyons 43-25 and clinched a 
dream," Douglas said at a news
at halftime, but would get no quarter. go to bed. He's been in a con­
spot in Wednesday's final 
conference.

closer the rest of the way. "In the beginning we came out fined situation." 
against Walsh who defeated 
"You have an idea of how you 
Three turnovers on consecutive a little slow and seemed tight," Having withstood a life­
Breen-Phillips in the other want it to end and it doesn't
possessions for Lyons allowed coach Pat Carlevato added. threatening case of diabetes game of the night. 
end that way. Instead you have
P.E. to take the a commanding Led by the strong inside play last July, Douglas said aIn the past three years, the 
a crash landing. This is an
30-20 lead during the third of junior Jessica Ward and rematch would offer redemp­Pyros had lost in the semi-fmal opportunity for me to go back
quarter from which they would sophomore Meghan Shannon, tion for both fighters. Douglasround, but managed to get over 
and make right what went
never look back. the Blitz held a 15-12 lead at was scorned by boxing people the hump this year as they ex­wrong. That's a huge motiva­
"We hit our shot at the begin­halftime. and the public after beingploited the Lyons zone defense. 
tion."

ning of the game and that Walsh was able to make their knocked out in the third round
"We played really well 

Douglas said neither he nor
helped a lot," coach Dave move in the third quarter as of his first title defense bytonight," sophomore Kristina anyone close to him has had
Sortino said. they opened the half with a 6-0 Evander Holyfield on Oct. 25,
Ervin said. "Sometimes it's 

discussions with Tyson or any­
run, and outscored B.P. 10-5 in 1990.
hard for us to get into it, but 

one representing him. Tyson
the quarter to take the lead for 
tonight we were able to." 

Walsh 34, Breen-Phillips 32 the first time at 22-20. will be released next month af­"We're both getting back outErvin paced the P.E. attack, 
ter spending three years in an
"Our defense was the key to there and this is something that
repeatedly scoring inside on 

Indiana prison on a rape con­
the game," Carlevato said. would put us back on top,"
both first and second In a game that started out 
viction.

"Once we got into a rhythm we Douglas said. 
opportunities. When Ervin was sluggishly, the second women's Don King, Tyson's manager
were able to utilize our quick­Tyson, expected to bedouble and triple teamed, she semi-final of the night ended and promoter, did not return
ness." released March 25, was con­could kick it out to her team­with a scoring flurry. 
"It was just two good teams calls seeking comment. victed in 1992 of raping a teen­mate, junior Michelle Demott, The wild of women of Walsh Douglas, 34, was responding
battling each other with Walsh age Miss Black America beautywho consistently nailed open Hall were down by five with to an article in USA Today last
coming out on top," concluded pageant contestant. 
jumpers. two minutes remaining, but 
Shannon. week that listed him as a Douglas' first fight with Tyson "When the zone collapsed, we battled back to defeat Breen­potential opponent when Tyson was taken off the board by odd­were able to knock down the Phillips 34-32. 
returns to the ring. Others
Kate McCann contributed to smakers because no one was
open shot," Ervin added. Junior Genna Gwynn dropped 
mentioned included current
this report. betting on Douglas.
"Most teams play zone against in a three-pointer for Walsh to heavyweight champion George 
Douglas came into his bout Foreman and an assortment of 
with Evander Holyfield at 24 7 others. But all of them have at 
pounds -16 1/2 more than least fought in the last four
If you see sports happening, 
when he fought Tyson -and years, unlike Douglas. 
was manhandled before going
call The Observer at 631-4543. 
Douglas' trainer, John 
down in the third round. 


\ G~ 1 '"< ~ ~ct ~ 
t Applications Available for the A t \ SAB Coordinator \ 
t ~~~:S~er of the .5,tudent Activities ,Board H*o~~~ ~g~~~lications at the t \ * A~r~~~a~:~~ ::~~rs brtnging * App~:foa~::~~t~:s~turned \ 
t :~~;:~~~:~~;~;t Government * s~£~~!~~r~fni~~~~:; time t 
\ If you have any questions please contact Audrey Comrie (SAB Coordinator) \t x5343 or Marlene Johnson (Assistant Director of Student Activities) x4562. t 



~·--~----~---­
~-------------------------------------~--------------------------~-----------------------------------------------------------~ 
'lucsday, February 21, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
Wednesday night on the main 

• Cou.EGE BASKETBAll
floor. ,.
Hoops 
The Dawgs did anything put continued from page 16 roll over and play dead. Alumni pulled to within three 
Iverson leads Hoyas in upset 
seven point deficit with five points with 55 seconds remain­minutes to go. ing. However, Off-Campus By JONATHAN MOORE 6), which jumped to an 11-0 8:40 to play on a layup by 
Stanford's rally was keyed by played defense tougher than Associated Press lead, while Othella Harrington Iverson. Perfect foul shooting junior Travis Brown. who hit nails to hold on for the win. had 12. down the stretch by Harrington consecutive three-pointers fol­"The last couple of games LANDOVER, Md. With the school's No. 1 alum and Iverson helped Georgetown lowed by a steal and a layup to we've started playing better in the stands, the Hoyas played stretch the margin to 74-48
With President Clinton in at­tendance, freshman Allen
bring Stanford back. defense and boxing out," Off­perhaps their best basketball with 4:17 remaining. 
However. Grace was not Campus captain Joe Bergan Iverson scored 26 points this season, shooting 49 per­It was Clinton's second outing about to fold. Stafford missed a said. Monday night to lead cent from the field, while hold­in about two weeks to a local driving layup that was momen­Alumni shocked him and the Georgetown to a 77-52 victory ing Villanova to 32 percent. college game. He was at the tarily corralled by Stanford's Off-Campus crew by growling over No. 9 Villanova, ending the Kerry Kittles, coming off a ca­Smith Center on Feb. 4 when 
Wildcats' 11-game winning
Jason Hanley, but he was tied their way to a 7-0 lead in the reer-high 37 points against George Washington upset then­up by several Grace players, first quarter. streak. Connecticut, led Villanova with No. 1 Massachusetts 78-75. forcing a jump ball and Grace's "This happened the last three Villanova (19-6, 12-3 Big 16 points, while Eric Eberz had Clinton, whose first loyalty is possession, setting the stage for games," Bergan said. "We East) was coming off its impres­13. to the Arkansas Razorbacks of 
Baker's clutch shots. were shut out, and started sive 96-73 road victory over Georgetown, which ended a his native state, graduated from 
"As a player-coach, I knew we slowly. Tonight we came back then-No. 1 Connecticut on four-game losing streak Georgetown in 1968. needed leadership on the in the second quarter, worked Saturday. Saturday at Providence, led 41-The lloyas shot 49 percent floor," explained Baker, who the ball inside, and started hit­Jerome Williams added 14 24 at halftime. The Hoyas ex­from the field in the first half 
also hit two huge three-point­ting some shots." points for Georgetown (16-7, 9-tended the lead to 60-40 with and had just five turnovers. ers in the fourth quarter to However, the lead was short stretch Grace's lead. lived. Off-Campus fought their 
Stafford contributed eight for way back, and held a 24-21 Grace, while Brown had 10, lead at halftime. Baxter eight, and Steve Caswell After eruising most of the sec­seven for Stanford. ond half, they staved off 
Alumni's frantic last second 0-C 50, Alumni 47 charge, and held on for the win. Off-Campus was led by the of­
By NEIL ZENDER fensive punch of Bryan Corbett
Spons Writer down low, who picked up a Off-Campus pounded their team high eight points. Greg way past Alumni's Dawgs to Nordhuff and Bergan both win Monday night's semi-final chipped in seven. interhall mateh 50-47. Off­Top Dawgs for Alumni were Campus will now defend last Ryan Healy with and Joe cham­season's Interhall ber and Billy Gese who picked Championship against Grace up six. 
Have something to sav? Use 

Photo courtesy of The Big East 

The Georgetown defense held Villanova to only 52 points in their 25-point blowout last night.The victory for
Observer class ifi eds. 
the Hoyas came only three days after the Wildcats' thrashing of then No. 1 Connecticut. 
Club Registration packets may now be picked up at either the Office of Student Activities or the Club Coordination Council Deadline to turn in: March 9, 1995 *Any Packets received after this date will not be considered for funding.  

• WOMEftS SOCCER • MEN's Vm.lEYBAU 
Daws to have surgery 
Irish split trip over weekend 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT foot and near the ankle. 
Spons Writer 
In the past week, one may have noticed Irish soccer star Cindy Daws getting around on a pair of crutches. 
The good news is that this is not a new injury. The bad news is that it is an old one. 
Last January, while training with the US National Team, Daws obtained a stress fracture in the navicular bone. The navicular bone is high on the 
Men's 

continued from page 16 
O'Brien and Ron Mencias played well against Duke. 
Bayliss said the combination of the team not arriving back from Kentucky utnil 6:15 Friday morning and Junior Parents Weekend may have caused to the team to be out of sync. 
Though Bayliss would have liked to get a victory, he knew prior to the season it would be a young team and a very diffi­cult schedule. However, the schedule does not get any eas­ier. 
This weekend, the Irish travel to the Team Indoor Championships in Louisville, Kentucky. On Thursday, the team will clash with number one ranked Stanford, and on Friday, either the number eight or number nine team will be the opponent. 
Coach Bayliss still has not lost optimism for the season. "If we're healthy and keep per­spective, we'll be tough to beat as the season goes on," he said. 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
411iedSignal 
AEROSPACE 

She had surgery last March to fix the stress fracture but the injury did not heal properly and she played through the whole fall season with a broken bone in her foot. 
Two weeks ago she decided to go through with another surgery. 
"We hope this is the end of the injury," coach Petrucelli said. "She probably will not play again until July or August." 
Wo01en's 
continued from page 16 
jumped all over them." 

Despite losing her singles match, no. 1 singles player Wendy Crabtree teamed up with Lord for the first victory of the sweep by the Irish in the doubles column. 
Coach Louderback praised the juniors' performances and was pleased to have them play so well in the presence of their parents."All three played very well," said Louderback. "It was nice to have them play well this weekend in front of their parents." 
Senior captain Laura Schwaab lost her singles match but bounced back to achieve a doubles victory with freshman Kelley Olson over Smith and Daphne Van Riet Pagp in straight sets 6-1, 6-2, bumping their record to 4-1. 
"Laura had the flu and didn't 
know that she was going to 
compete until warmups, but 
she is tough to keep out," said 
Louderback. "She and O~on 
have played very well for us. 
Their only loss was to the 22nd 
best team in the nation." 
Freshman Molly Gavin and sophomore Erin Gowen were straight set winners at no. 5 and 6 singles respectively. They also teamed up for a straight set doubles win over Brasington and Allison Eager 6-2, 7-5. 
SECURITY 

Part time positions open on the afternoon and midnight shifts for Security Officers in Soufh Bend location. 
Will train and prouide uniforms. Starting pay at $6.50 per hour. 

Duties will consist of fire watch tours in an industrial/office complew and access control at a uehicle/pedestrian gate. 
contact Don Muncy at AlliedSignal Aerospace, 231-2520. 
EOE/M/F 

By SHAWN HOCHSTETLER 
Sports Writer 

The men's volleyball team stepped back into action over the past weekend by splitting a two match road trip. On Saturday afternoon, the Irish took on defending Midwestern champs Iowa State. The Irish came out with an intense mis­sion: to defeat the Iowa State team who knocked them out of the Midwestern tournament last year before eventually claiming the title. 
The Irish started quickly by winning the first two games 15­10, 15-11. "We played some of our best volleyball of the year so far," mentioned senior Chris Fry. "This was a big game for us. To beat Iowa State after they knocked us out of the tour­nament last year is a confi­dence builder for this year's team." 
Iowa State refused to give up, though. They regrouped to take the next two games from the Irish 7-15 and 13-15. The Irish lacked the intensity that they exhibited in the first two games, allowing Iowa State to force a fifth game. The decid­ing game went to the Irish 15­11. 

The fifth game was close until the Irish regained the intense fever that powered them in the first two games. "We took a big lead in the match and then let down," commented Captain Matt Strottman. "The team lost the energy that we initially came out with. Thankfully we stepped up in the last part of the fifth game to beat Iowa State." 
Strottman paced the Irish with 26 kills in the match. "Matt was determined to put the ball down," said Fry. "If we needed a kill, I knew Matt would put the ball down if I set him. He just played a great game." Pete Curry also con­tributed to the Irish victory by recording 20 kills. 
The men's team had a diffi-
CLIMBING WALL SCHEDULE 5108. Lac~osse experience ~The climbing wall is now necessary. open for use, .The h~urs wUt.. :. .be Sundays 2:00-5:00 and···· INTERHALL LACROSSE-The Tuesdays and Thursdays from RecSports office is offering in­7:00-10:00. The climbing wall terhalllacrosse with the dead­
1 itt located in the Rockne line being February 23rd. The Memorial and anyone inter-mandatory captains' meeting ested in using it must attend will be at 5:00 PM in the JACC 
1 ·.· &n orientation session, For" auditorium on the same date. more info call RecSports at 1-Any questions please call 1­6100. 6100. 
I VARSitY LACROSSE • A SPORTSTALK-Women's statisti~ian is needed for Basketball star Beth Morgan men'$ varsity lacrosse game~:.;:. will be featured on Sunday Call Coaqh Coorigan at v• night at 7:30 on WVFI 640 cult match Sunday against the University of Illinois. The Irish started slowly against the Illini and were never able to recover. 
The match lasted only three games as the Illini disposed of the Irish with ease 4-15,11-15, 10-15. "We weren't concen­trating against Illinois. The fo­cus that we had against Iowa State simply wasn't present against Illinois," commented Strottman. 
The Illini controlled the game with their powerful offense. The Irish blockers couldn't stop the many weapons that the Illinois team possessed. "They're a good team. It's tough to stop a team that can come at us with so many con­sistent hitters," explained Fry. 
The men's team steps back on the court this week as they host Tri-State on Wednesday and rival Michigan State on Thursday. Both matches will be in the JACC at 7:30. 
AM. SPORTS MANAGING-There will be an informational meet­ing for all Freshman interest­ed in becoming a Sports Manager @ 8:00 pm in Loftus 
Football Auditorium on Wednesday the 22nd. Questions call 1-6482. 
CHALLENGE-U-AEROBICS­There are still spots open in some step classes as well as other aerobics classes. Stop by RecSports to register or call for more info at 1-5959. 

WANT TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE IN THE LIFE OF A CHILD THIS SUMMER? 
COME FOR A JOB INTERVIEW TO WORK AT: 
CAMP SWEENEY 
A RESIDENTIAL SPORTS CAMP IN NORTH TEXAS FOR CHILDREN WITH DIABETES 
INTERVIEWS WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22 FROM 9:00AM to 3:00PM IN THE NOTRE DAME LIBRARY FOYER 
Camp Sweeney is an equal opportunity employer. 
A& Don't let a warm 
VARSITY SHOP 

weekend catch you
...... 

off guard again. 
NOTRE DAME JOYCE ACC 
SECOND FLOOR CONCOURSE 


New Spring Merchandise JustArrived.
631·8560 



Tuesday, February 21, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
MIRRORlAND HUY NGOC PHAN CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 
SCOIT ADAMS 
TI-\Ai'S VERY TEMPTING EXCEPT FOR II-I.E FAC.T YOU'RE A PATHOLOGICAL 
LIAR. 
••. AND T#(c (,oii~RNOI'­Tot-JiGI'IT ; :I Nf.VER WATCH 1Hc
ANoltiffl. 
MvR.DtR ... H~ t'Rot-li Sf.D TO··· 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
Wln.\ 5\-\(ER BR.~II\\ PoWER, WilL ~OIKE lt\IS SLED TO Ct>-RR'i ME Ul> 11-\t. \\\Ll ~ 
DILBERT 
RELIABLE SOURCES SAY 
YOUR PROJ"ECT WILL BE. 
CANCELLED I DILBERT 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 24 Kind of ball 1 Movie-spinoff 28 Naughty child's TV series Christmas gift 5 "Arms and the 32 Baden-Baden, Man" playwright e.g. t Little Goody 35 English scarf Two--38 Israeli native 14 Director 37 See 17-Across Preminger 40 Boxing site 15 Video 41 "-say 11 Blood vessel more?" t7 With 37-Across 42 Morse code and 59-Across, 
message

a familiar finale 
43 Marsh growth 

11 With 58-Across, 
44Much more

where to read 
expensive

17-Across, etc. zoWhooped 45Had been 21 Combines 46 Impressed 
22Appear deeply 
23 Sailor 50 Did a con job on 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~::-+:='::+=-IE+.~ 
~~r-1~:-t 11 Not secondhand: Abbr. 12 To be, in Paris ~~:-F.-BF.t:i:t:-l 13 Pronounces 

--~~C$:~Ujjf.~~~~~-· 18 Logician's
II!! ~ propositions ..:;+:;:-+=-r.:-t:-:t:-t 21 Hopping ­
•~~~~ 23 Utmost extent 25 Fire residue .;+.:=+:::-F.t.;t;~-t.:-1 28 Play parts ~:;+:;+=t-:-t::+.:-+.:-1 27 Where Inchon is 
~;+:=+:::88:+.::-1 28 Toy gun "ammo" 
'{OU St\OULD ABANDON IT ~ NOW AND COME WORK ONi MY ?ROJ"'E.C.T 
WI-\EN 1"\Y  
:l  BIG  PROMOTION GOES  
~  THROUGI-1.  NEXT 1"\0NTI-\, I'LL  
~>~  TRAN5FE.R YOU TO  
~  1"\Y GROUP AND  
"'  GIVE YOU A  
~  RAISE.  

54 Mollified sa See 19-Across 59 See 17-Across eo Askew 81 French 
statesman Coty 82Ripped 83 Rain gear 84 Bohemian 85 Raced 
DOWN 
1 Hole maker 
zOne of the Three Musketeers 
3lnscribed pillar 4 According to 
&Agitate 8"-anice 
day!" ?Copied 8 Tie the knot t More secure 
10 Kind of frost 
.,; !'JeWS •.. Too ()E~E:Ssi>JG 
:z
... ~ 

BILL WAITERSON 
~U\ U\'-11\l l tlt.CIOE iO \)O \1-\~i, l'Ll W~ll(! 



2t Sashes 30 Mr. Guthrie 31 Emulates hens 32Twinkler 33 Skin opening 34 Author James 38 Meadowsweet 38 Pass receiver 39 Summer drink 44 "Dear old-" 45 Bridge seats 47 Gentle breezes 46 Legally prevent 
49 Moline, Ill., company 
50 Penetrate 
51 Pact since 1949 56 Birds of­
52 Mishmash 57-Scott 53 Whipping Decision, 1857 reminder 59 Pitcher's stat 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
& CAREFUL WI-\AT YOU 5AY-I 
~AVE. 5UPER 


"For the third time, sir, there are no other seats available! Now please take your seat." 

• OF INTEREST 

>"The Baltic Countries Between the European Union and Russia" will be the subject of a lecture by Mr. Kari Mottola, Special Advisor to the Finnish Ministry for Foreign Affairs, at 4:15p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Au­ditorium. 
Study abroad in Taipei or Beijing. If interesied. there will be an informational meeting with Professor Dian Murray and Alice Chea.ng today at 4:30 p.m. in room 109 O'Shaugnessy. 
Office Visits/Plant Trips Workshop: This work­shop. presented by Kitty Arnold, director of Career and Placement, will be held in the Foster Room in LaFortune Center today from 6:30-7:30 p.m. Topics include sched­ule for day-long interviews, tips on business travel, and expense reimbursements. 
"Religious Commlttment and Economic Analysis. ~u;e they compatible?" Professor Rebecca Blank from Northwestern University will be giving a lecture tonight at 7 p.m. in room 117 DeBartolo. All majors are wel­come. It is sponsored by the Department of Economics and Omicron Delta Epsilon. 
A Self-Assessment Workshop will be held on Thursday, Feb. 23, 6:30-8:30 p.m. and Thursday, March 
2. 6:30·8:30 p.m. in the Sorin Room of LaFortune. Space is limited. Pre-register in person at Career and Place­ment Services or call631-5200. 
Student Body President elect and Vice President elect Jonathan Patrick and Dennis McCarthy will answer questions on their future plans and goals on WVFI 640 AM on Sunday, Feb. 26 at 8 p.m. 
•MENU 

Notre Dame  
North Combo Pizza Beef Tamale German Chocolate Cake  South Cheese Lasagna Yankee Pot Roast Dutch Cherry Pie  
.Saint Mary's  

Tarragon and Lemon Pepper Chicken Ground Beef and Potato Pie Garden Rotinin w/ Parmesan Cheese 
Please, Recycle The Observer 

.. 
'IIie Observer 

Published Monday through Friday, 'I1ie 06serwr is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found 
'I1ie 06server an indispeosible link to the two cam­puses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive 'I1ie 06serouin your 
home. 
Make checks payable: The Observer 
and mail: P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $60 for one academic year. 
0 Enclosed is $35 for one semester. 
Name __________________________________ Address______________ City______.State___Zip_____ 
f 
[ 
• 
The Observer/Eric Reuthling 

Captain Laura Schwaab fought an illness and Alabama. 
By BETSY BAKER three-set matches. Lord Spans Writer defeated Lori Smith 6-4, 2-6, 7-6, and Vitale beat If Junior Parents Cantillon Brasington 3­
Weekend is a plot by the 6, 6-2, 7-5. university to impress "Our two big matches the parents, the Notre were Holyn Lord's and Dame women's tennis 
Sherri Vitale's," said team is in on it. The Irish head coach Jay15th ranked Irish team 
Louderback. defeated 28th ranked "They both won in Alabama on Sunday 7-2, 
third set tiebreakers as the team's juniors 
and were both down 

played pivotal roles. and fought back. We No. 2 singles player led 4-2 but easily could J-lolyn Lord and no. 4 have been down 4-2. 
player Sherri Vitale They were down going came through with key into doubles and we victories for the Irish, both winning with 
see WOMEN'S/page 14 


0-C and Grace to meet in the arena 
By TIM SEYMOUR Associate Sports Editor 
It's a moment that gym rats have prepared them­selves for from time immemorial. Three seconds left. Down by one. Two free throws. How do you respond? 
If you're Dave Baker, a senior from Grace Hall, you don't even flinch. Facing the same circum­stances last night in a men's interhall semifinal against Stanford, Baker coolly stepped up and drained both shots to send Grace to a 40-39 victory and a place in Wednesday's finals on the arena floor. 
"Thank God I practiced my free throws on Thursday," stated Baker, whose 15 points led all scorers. "I just relaxed, because it's a situation I like to be in." 
"Dave's the heart and soul of this team," 

exclaimed teammate Charlie Stafford. "The game 
was over (as soon as he stepped to the line)." 
Stanford player-coach Bob Baxter concurred. "Baker had been hitting all night, so I thought he'd make both," he said. 
In fact, Baker's last second heroics stole the spot­light from Baxter, who nailed a 19-foot jumper only seconds earlier to give Stanford a tenuous lead, capping a furious rally that saw the Studs erase a 
see HOOPS I page 13 

SPORTS 

Sophomore Bl1t¢h 
Cabreros was ready to 
fight in last year's 
Bengal Bout$. and. he 
did not hesitate to tell . 
anyone aoout it. But · 
he. was unable to back 
up .his words in his 
semifinal bout .with 
senior Oari . Couri 
(right), whose style 
gave him.··~.. split (i~ci· 
·.· siqJ~ ViCt<?ty; ·•• . . . . 
heavUya}ltipipated rematcb·with Comi isn't ·-~··ffl• ....~·. But a shot at other skilled boxers, like cap­and. Mike Thompson, is a probabili­
• ·,.:c..... "-' ...·._··· 
prepare for the best. Cabreros has Although he has yet to step into S()phq:rnore.has matches lined Ho:sellii ·•:no,tm)so·p, •n,d two..time ·chtun.pion 
u111: mnuJ.rl:i ofJhis caliber will give him a test 
lltUII•· l>•li>·•tll.tOII 
as give him praC'tiCf:l in d~ctating 

.,-~··o ....,..go to the body more," be said. "These ut l,4on't think they~U see the body 
.:::.@g· 

Irish fall to Jayhawks, Blue Devils 
ByB.J. HOOD doubles (played last) 9-7 after the Irish fueled the 7-0 setback. Last Sports Writer score was knotted at 7-7. year, Notre Dame defeated the num­"Jason Pun had a great win against ber four Duke team in Durham, so The Notre Dame men's tennis team Kentucky's Jason Thompsen, Jakub Bayliss doesn't feel Duke's ranking 
stands at 3-3 following losses to Pietrowski showed poise in defeat­scared the team. 
ranked opponents over the week­ing Ford Lankford, and Steve "We lost all the close matches. We 
end. On Thursday, sixteenth rated Flanigan still has not lost," Notre were in position to win three of the 
Kentucky edged Notre Dame 4-3, Dame head coach Bob Bayliss said. six singles and didn't cash the 
and on Saturday, fifth rated Duke Bayliss said the Kentucky loss was check," Bayliss said. "We continue 
defeated the Irish 7-0. 
difficult to swallow. "But good to work on performance and execu­The Kentucky match was a heart­teams bounce back, and we didn't." tion goals, not outcome goals."
breaker for the Irish, who had two Bayliss said the combination of Bayliss said Jason Pun, John Jay
7-5 losses, and lost at number three Duke's talent and an off-day by the see MEN'S/page 14 

of note...
IRISH VOLLEYBALL 
Women's soccer phenom Cindy
Team split weekend matches against Iowa 
Daws will undergo surgery again 
State and Illinois. 
on her foot

SEE PAGE 14 
MEN'S VOLLEYBALL 


