• I \-1 I I I ' I--;--I I I 1 I • I 'I I I I I I I I o I I I I 1 1 1
1 

Tuesday, March 28, 1995• Vol. XXVI No. 110 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Judge: No change of venue for Rita trial 
Hita, who graduated in May coverage, and other materials
Albright rules 
of 1994, was acquitted in submitted to him. 
November by a St. Joseph "(The court) continues to be­
Superior Court jury of causing a lieve a jury can be seated in 
death while driving drunk. this case," said Albright. 
After the jury eould not reach a " ... Proper precautions can pro­
publicity won't 

taint juror pool 
verdict on the leaving the scene vide a jury fair to both sides." By DAVE TYLER charge, Albright declared a Albright said different meth­News Editor mistrial. St. Joseph County ods of juror screening, such as 
Proseeutor Michael Barnes then questionnaires or group ques­
John Hita's retrial on a decided to retry the case. tioning, can be used to discover charge of leaving the scene of Defense Attorney Charles who might have knowledge an accident will take place in Asher said that media coverage about the first case. Potential St. Joseph County the judge in of the case was inaccurate and jurors could be told not to pay the case told attorneys for both very prejudicial especially after attention to media accounts sides Monday. the verdict, making it impossi­shortly before the trial. 
St. Joseph Superior Court ble to find an impartial jury in Albright said he and the Judge William Albright denied St. Joseph County. lawyers "may have varying a motion by defense attorney Barnes opposed a change of opinions about the media cov­Charles Asher for a change of venue, saying he believed it erage, especially whether it venue because of intense local was possible to find an unbi­seems to be driven by facts or publieity generated by Hita's ased jury, and cited the verdict emotions." first trial. of the first trial as evidence that "Media coverage often in­
Hita. 25, a graduate of Notre no bias existed for or against volves misstatements of fact, Dame Law School, will stand Rita in the county. Only six ju­opinions of journalists and trial on a charge of leaving the rors and at most three alter­statements that turn out to be seene of an accident, after his nates will be necessary for a based upon no facts. This is dic­car struck freshman Mara Fox, retrial because the count tated by the freedom of the 18, of Oakton. Virginia, as she against Rita is only a Class D press," said Albright. and a group of friends walked felony. If an unbiased jury could not along Douglas Hoad on their In rejecting the defense mo­be found, the change of venue way back to campus in the tion, Albright said he carefully question could be addressed early hours of November 13, deliberated over the subject, again, said Albright. 1993. Fox was killed in the col­reviewing numerous newspaper The South Bend Tribune con­
lision. articles, videotapes of television tributed to this report. 

Vietnam story needs telling 
By SARA WOODEN 
News Writer 
Growing up in Vietnam and experiencing the war first hand was a story that needed to be told, aceording to author Le Ly Hayslip, whose two books were the basis for Oliver Stone's movie "I leaven and Earth." 
"I read a lot of books by Americans who think they know Vietnam. The way I eould share my point of view with the American people was W writ!~ a book." said Hayslip, who wrote "When lleaven and 1\arth Changed Places" and "Child of War. Woman of Peace." 
Hayslip, who spoke last night in DeBartolo in order to kiek off the beginning of Asian lleritage Week. related the trials of growing up in wartime to the audience. 
"When the American's came in 1965, they had a search and kill mission to find the Viet Cong. The Viet Cong told the peopiB of my village that we should take the torture and 

The Observer/ Kris Adidarma Le Ly Hayslip spoke last night in a lecture about her experiences in Vietnam which were the basis for Oliver Stone's "Heaven and Earth." 

punishment if we are eaught by the South Vietnamese. We could not share information with them," she said. 
Talk ol' the torture camps was common in her village, ac­cording to Hayslip, who en­dured a great deal of pain. 
"As a child, we heard people talking about the torture camps a11 the time, it was like talking about football or baseball now. I never thought that I would be eaught. But I was caught by the South Vietnamese and taken to the torture camp. I thought that when I got out the Viet Cong would be happy that I didn't tell anything, but instead, they thought that I was now a spy for the South Vietnamese. They sentenced me to the death sentence, but decided to rape me instead." 
Hayslip described the every­day village life, saying that dur­ing the day, the villagers were loyal to the Americans and South Vietnamese, but at night, they worked for the Viet Cong. 
"Daytime and nighttime ... two different forts, two different governments," Hayslip ex­plained. 
"The Viet Cong also thought that my mother was on the side of the South Vietnamese. We knew that the Viet Cong would never leave our family alone, so we fled to Saigon," Hayslip con­tinued. 
"We didn't know how to cook or mop floors," she added, "we couldn't get a job. The refugees became the home­less." 
At age sixteen, Hayslip re­turned to Vietnam where she lived with her sister, who had an American boyfriend. She had to learn how to get along 
see VIETNAM/ page 4 

ByTOMMORAN 
News Writer 
Liberal Arts majors will have an opportunity to learn more about their potential careers at the College of Arts and Letters Career Day. 
The career day will be held on Wed., March 29, from 11 
a.m. to 3 p.m. in the lower level of the Center for Continuing Education. 
The informal event will fea­ture booths presenting the many different careers avail­able to Arts and Letters stu­dents. It will also showcase graduate schools and opportu­nities for postgraduate service. 
The event is primarily geared toward sophomores and juniors interested in "seeing where their major can lead them," according to Leslie Boehnen, publicity director of the Arts and Letters Business Society. Boehnen, however, emphasized that "seniors are 

Lottery to be held for Maya Angelou tickets 
Ciunpus Brief lottery numbers will be dis· 
tributed in rm. 108 of 
A lottery LaFortune Student Center will be held from 4 p.m. to 8 p.m., on for the dis­Wed., March 29, 1995. tribution of tickets for The lecture will be held on the Maya Sat., April 8, 1995 at Angela Angelou lec· Athletic Facility. Saint Mary's ture. College at 7:30p.m. 
Selected numbers will be 

T i c k e t s Angelou published in the Observer on will be given Mon.. April 3. No more than out to students, faculty, and two tickets per person. Please staff in the following manner: bring your J.D. 
encouraged to come and bring resumes," to become more fa­miliar with specific companies. 
Boehnen also noted that the event is open to students from all colleges, not just liberal arts majors. She said that it can be helpful in deciding on a major as well as on a career. 
There will be over 30 differ­ent careers profiled at the fair. Some of the notable representatives inelude the Sears Merchandising Group, representing the retail field; Leo Burnett, representing advertising; and First Source Bank, representing banking. 
Hepresentatives of several Notre Dame graduate sehools, including the business sehool and the law school. will present the various postgraduate edu­cational opportunities available to Arts and Letters majors. There will be a representative from the Princeton Heview 
see CAREER DAY/ page 4 


-­-­ 1 • r, r I I I I r r I I I I r • r ,'I  
• I o I  I I 1 I • I'  I I r I I/ I •  I I • ''I •  
page 2  The Observer • INSIDE  Tuesday, March 28, 1995  

• INSIDE COLUMN 
My future, 
•
myspnng break 
Spring break -some people went to South Sarah Cashore Padre, others went to Assistant Accent Editor 
Florida, and yet others went to the Bahamas ... I went home, only to experience yet another example of the fright­ening reality which is my life. The first Sunday of break, I dragged myself out of bed and went to 10:30 mass with my mother. In what has now become a Sunday morning rit­ual, my mom casually slipped in the fact that :;he had to go grocery shopping after church and wouldn't I just love to come with her to Almacs. 
I don't know how, but my mom convinced me to accompany her to the shopping mecca that is Almacs. I was walking towards Almacs when my friend Liz emerged from the store. I hadn't seen or talked to her since Christmas, and, although I remembered that her 21st birthday was the Monday before break, I hadn't called because I didn't have her number. I apologized profusely for not calling on her birthday; she insisted that it was no big deal, and then proceeded to ask the question which I begin to dread more and more with each year: "Guess what?" The shocking piece of news which she proceeded to share with me was that she was engaged. 
You have to understand that I have known 
Elisabeth Jane Zwiener since I was five years 
old. We suffered through education at Our 
Lady of Mercy elementary school, watching 
together from the sidelines at mixers when 
the seven boys in our class of 22 opted to 
dance, not with us, but with seven other girls; 
making plans to go to the movies when our 
other friends from high school were going 
out with their boyfriends; and, up until 
sophomore year of college, commiserating 
about the male species in general. 
October, 1993 -enter Mark, Liz's fiance. I 
honestly like Mark, although he committed 
the nearly unforgivable sin of wisking one of 
my best friends away from the rest of us in 
the ranks of the unattached. 
I am also honestly happy for Liz. I guess the 
whole situation affected me so much because 
it forced me once again to think about what 
is (and is not) going on in my own life. 
Knowing that someone with whom I grew up 
basically has her future planned and is con­
tent with the course she is taking in life 
heightens my own confusion about the fu­
ture. 
As Liz, Mark, and I were talking outside the 
grocery store, Mrs. Belanger, who had in­
structed Liz and me in our youth, approached 
us. She had been informed of the joyous news 
by none other than my mother, who was now 
resolutely patrolling the aisles of the grocery 
store in her quest for food for the family. 
After congratulating Liz and Mark on their 
engagement, Mrs. B turned to me with an 
expectant look and inquired, "And what 
about you, Sarah?" 
What about ME? Did she expect ME to be 
engaged too? Hey, I'm only 20 years old-I 
have no idea what I'm going to do for the 
summer, and you're expecting me to know 
who I'm going to spend the rest of my life 
with? 
What about me? It's a good question, and if 
anyone knows the answer, I'm only too will­
ing to listen. I have only one request-please 
don't begin the conversation with "Guess 
what?" 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TOOAY'S STAFF  
News  Accent  
Gwendolyn Norgle  Pete Rubinas  
Jamie Heisler  Jenny Genzelman  
Spons  Viewpoint  
Dave Treacy  Rae Sikula  
Graphics  Meaghan Smith  
Tom Mullins  Production  
Lab Tech  Belle Bautista  
Eric Ruethling  Tara Grieshop  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday ex:cepr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Gump sweeps Best Picture, Best Actor, Best Director 
LOS ANGELES honored film, "Ben Hur," the 1959 "Forrest Gump," the surprise block-release that won 11 Academy Awards . buster about a slow-witted Southerner, "Pulp Fiction" took the original 
•~>'·11111

won six Oscarson Monday, including 1 screenplay award for Quentin best picture. Its star, Tom Hanks, Tarantino, who also directed the dark became only the second performer to gangster comedy, and Roger Avary. win as best actor two years in a row. "Forrest Gump" brought the best 
"I feel as though I'm standing on adapted screenplay prize for Eric Roth. magic legs in a special effects process Disney's "The Lion King" won best that is too unbelieveable to imagine and original score and the animated film's far too costly to make a reality," said an "Can You Feel the Love Tonight?" by emotional Hanks, who won last year as Elton John and Tim Rice was named the lawyer dying of AIDS in ):>est song. "Philadelphia." Russia's "Burnt By The Sun" was 
Jessica Lange was named best actress •-•·· honored as best foreign film. for her role as a frustrated Army wife in The 67th annual Academy Award cer­"Blue Sky," while Dianne Wiest, the emonies, at the Shrine Auditorium, had grandly melodramatic stage star in a different host for the third straight "Bullets Over Broadway," and Martin year -CBS late-night star David Landau, a washed-up, drug-addicted Letterman, who appeared nervous and Bela Lugosi in "Ed Wood," won sup-somewhat off his comic stride during porting awards. much of the evening. 
Robert Zemeckis won as best director The show, televised by ABC, figured to for "Gump," which also took prizes for Robert Zemeckis reach a prime-time global audience adapted screenplay, film editing and "ForrestGump'" · exceeding 1 billion in more than 100 visual effects. countries. 
"Blue Sky" took an unlikely path to '--"-~'-"-----~-~22..~-_!___A___JP "The folks I work for back in New the Oscars: It was shelved for three York have asked me to make this years because of studio financial troubles; its director, announcement," Letterman cracked. "CBS has signed off Tony Richardson, died before it was released, and it was for the evening." a box-office flop despite good reviews. Later he produced his trademark "Stupid Pet Tricks," "Gump," whose gross ofmore than $317 million puts it showing off "Sadie, the dog that spins when you 
in the No. 4 spot on Hollywood's list of all-time top mon-applaud." And he read his patented "Top Ten List" of eymakers, had drawn a near-record 13 Academy nomi-signs that a movie will not win an Oscar, including: nations. "Nude scene with Uma Thurman replaced by nude scene 
But it was unable to turn that baker's dozen into with Strom Thurmond" and "Four words: Dom DeLuise enough Oscars to come close to challenging the most is Gandhi." 
Prince Charles to sell soft drinks Rapper's death to boost awareness 
LONDON LOS ANGELES 
Prince Charles has a new way to raise money for his The death of Eazy-E, the "gangsta" rapper whose mu­charities -making herbal soft drinks from fruits grown sic reached into the white, suburban teen-age market, on his estates. Coca-Cola and Schweppes Beverages Ltd. will be used to boost awareness of AIDS. Eazy-E, whose will produce and distribute the nonalcoholic, sparkling real name was Eric Wright. died of the disease at age 31 drinks, Mike Cornish, managing director of Duchy Origi­Sunday, a month after he was hospitalized for what he nals, said Monday. "Both drinks were carefully crafted originally thought was asthma. Proceeds of a big outdoor by masters of wine to produce a sophisticated alternative rap concert this summer will go in Wright's name to to alcohol. They are blend from the finest natural English AIDS-related charities, said Craig Wilbraham, general apples, pears, raspberries and herbs with lightly carbon­manager of KKBT radio, where Eazy-E was co-host of a ated Scottish spring water," Cornish said. The names are Saturday night show. Eazy-E said he believed he had a takeoff on Pimm's, similarly numbered herbal alcoholic contracted the virus through heterosexual sex. In a drinks popular in Britain, and on the Duchy of Cornwall, statement earlier this month, he said he wanted to "testi­the landholdings that provide the prince's income. Some fy" about "what's real when it comes to AIDS." He said ingredients come from the royal estate at Sandringham he hoped his misfortune would help save "all my home­and Charles' farm at Highgrove, as well as the National boys and their kin." The former drug dealer had been Fruit Collection in Kent, Cornish said. an urban music star since 1988. 
FDA to market anti-obesity drugs The surf calls-they hear the beep 
WASHINGTON VENTURA, Calif. 
The Food and Drug Administration is considering When the surf calls nowadays, it just beeps. About 430 guidelines that would speed the approval process for new dedicated windsurfers have bought into a paging service anti-obesity drugs. The agency last fall proposed guide­to get their attention at work or home when the wind is lines that would have required two years of human test­right. "A high percentage of windsurfers are profes­ing before approval of such drugs. But when the FDA in sionals," said Dave DePaolo, a lawyer from Thousand Janu~ry asked a panel of scientific advisers to review Oaks. "We have busier schedules now and can't always those guidelines, the doctors told the government to ease clear out five-hour blocks of time to hang out and wait up. Among its recommendations: Require only one year for the wind." The paging service, Call of the Wind, is of human testing for anti-obesity drugs and don't require the work of inventor and windsurfer Jim Martin. He per­proof that the drugs lower the risk of obesity-related dis­suaded friends three years ago to buy a $900 computer eases in addition to causing weight loss. The FDA at the attached to a wind gauge. When the onshore breeze hits time indicated it would follow the advice, and a revised about 14 mph, customers get beeped. Surfers pay about draft of the guidelines, reported in Monday's Wall Street $210 for a pager and up to $21 a month for the service, Journal, shows it is doing so. The FDA last approved diet depending on how many sites they want monitored. The drugs in the 1970s. network covers 14 California spots. 

The Accu-Weather<B> forecast for noon, Tuesday, March 28. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
H J---,---,--.l\...__ 
FRONTS: 
......---r ............ ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1995 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pre$$Uf6 ~ 
H L B ISS! li!l 0 ~ § 1:) L..J. U 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN f.STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUUY CLOUOV 
ViaAssoctated'Press 
Atlanta 71 63 Dallas 68 44 New Orleans 80 66 Baltimore 63 46 Denver 44 15 New York 57 39 Boston 45 36 Los Angeles 76 52 Philadelphia 61 42 Chicago 40 38 Miami 80 68 Phoenix 72 44 Columbus 52 44 Minneapolis 39 37 St. Louis 59 42 

VIa Associated Press Graph/csNet C1995 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
I I I  I  I •  
~ \ \ I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I r  
Tuesday, March 28, 1995  The Observer • NEWS  page 3  

Bernadin joins illustrious company 
that priests and religious would 
1995 Laetare be eligible. 
The Laetare Medal is the 
The Laetare Medal 
Medal continues American counterpart of the 
rich tradition 
Special to the Observer 
Cardinal Joseph Bernadin, Archbishop of Chicago joins an illustrious list of previous win­ners as the recipient of the Notre Dame'Laetare Medal for 1995. 
University president Father Edward Malloy announced last Sunday that the Cardinal would receive the award at the school's 150th commencement exercises May 21. 
Over the years, the Laetare medal has been presented to 89 men and 28 women of varied backgrounds. Recipients have included soldiers, statesmen, artists and industrialists, diplo­mats and philanthropists, edu­cators and scientists. Estab­lished in 1883, the Medal was restricted to lay persons until 1968, when it was announced "Golden Rose," a papal honor antedating the eleventh cen­tury. 
The name of their recipient is announced each year on Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday of Lent and an occasion of joy in the liturgy of the Catholic Church. 
The award was conceived by Professor James Edwards in 1883. 
The recipients of the Medal are selected by a committee headed by the president of Notre Dame. 
Generally regarded as the most significant annual award conferred upon Catholics in the United States, the Laetare Medal consists of a solid gold disc suspended from a gold bar bearing the inscription "Laetare Medal." Inscribed in a border around the disc are the words, "Magna est veritas et prevalebit" (Truth is mighty and will prevail). 
"The Laetare Medal has been worn only by men and women whose genius has ennobled the arts and sciences, illustrated the ideals of the Church, and enriched the heritage of humanitv." 
·Excerpt from Laetare Medal citation presented to General William Starke Rosecrans 
1995 Recipient 
Cardinal Joseph Bernardin Archbishop of Chicago 

Famous Winners of the Past 
1883 John Gilmary Shea 1925 Albert Francis Zahm 1929 Alfred Smith 1972 Dorothy Day 1979 Helen Hayes 1980 "Tip" O'Neill 1992 Daniel Moynihan historian scientist statesman author actress Speaker of the House US Senator 

• SECURITY BEAT 
FRI., MARCH 24 
9:03 a.m. Security responded to a one car accident on Juniper Road. There were no Injuries reported. 
12:33 p.m. Security assisted a visl· tor who fainted while In Alley Art Building. 
8:56 p.m. An off-campus resident re­ported the theft ot his wallet from the Lacrosse locker room In the JACC. 
SAT., MARCH 25 
12:15 a.m. A Keenan Hall resident reported the theft of his camera from his room. 
2:30 a.m. An olf·campus student was cited for speeding on Ivy Road. 
4:12 p.m. A Morrissey Hall resident reported the theft of his bike from the Morrissey Hall bike rack. 
4:20 p.m. A University employee re­ported vandalism to her vehicle while parked In the parking lot behind the Hammes Bookstore. 
SUN., MARCH 26 
12:21 a.m. An Alumni Hall resident was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center lor treatment of a laceration. 
2:37 p.m. A Lyons Hall resident was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a sports Injury. 
9:22 p.m. A Morrissey Hall resident reported receiving harassing phone calls. 
Smithsonian to celebrate anniversary with touring show 
By CONNIE CASS pected to foot the $100 million that corporations are allowed to use the institution's name such as the Official Walking Associated Press bill for the traveling show and to use the Smithsonian name and logo. Shoe of the Smithsonian. And other anniversary events and logo in their advertising -cigarette-and beer-makers 
WASHINGTON throughout 1996, including if they ante up $10 million "We talked and talked and need not apply. 
The Smithsonian Institution television specials and a birth­each. talked it through, and once I The corporate money is need­will celebrate its 150th anniver­day party on the National Mall. became convinced, as I am, ed to allow the Smithsonian to sary by packing up a hodge­"This will be the first time The Smithsonian has long that we have real control about make the anniversary events podge of treasures -George that the Smithsonian will bring used corporate donors to fi­how they're used and when free to the public, just like the Washington's sword, the Apollo to the American people, where nance exhibitions at some of its they're used, I'm really not institution's museums in 14 command module, first they are, so many true icons of museums, occasionally spark­worried," he said Monday after Washington, Heyman said. ladies' gowns, the ruby slippers their heritage," Smithsonian ing controversy. Heyman ac­announcing the anniversary The traveling "America's from "The Wizard of Oz" -Secretary I. Michael Heyman knowledged that he and others plans. Smithsonian" exhibit will tour and taking them on the road. said Monday. within the institution initially Heyman said there won't be 12 U.S. cities over two years, 
Corporate sponsors are ex-It also will be the first time were hesitant to allow sponsors any product endorsements -beginning in Los Angeles. 
THIS THURSDAY The Alumni-Senior Club 
presents 
THE BON TON SOUL ACCORDION BAND Kansas City's Best Rock/Rhythm 'n Blues And The Las Vegas Suitcase Party come party with a great band and win a trip to Vegas~ 

~-------~~-----~---~-~------------­
I 1 I'· 
'I 1 1 I j I I I I I I I I/ I I/ f I I I I I I •' 

The Observer/ Tina Lemker 
Servin' it up 

Saint Mary's student Jen Doyle, co-manager of Dalloway's Coffee House, pours beans into the grinder. 
Vietna01 
continued from page 1 
with an American. She also learned that the best way for her to make money to support her own baby was to sell her body. 
"The war taught me how to survive, to sell my body, and the small differ­ences between people," Hayslip said. 
After suffering many personal trials, and experiencing the death of family members, Hayslip finally came to the United States, where she now lives in San Diego. Hayslip founded the East Meets West Foundation, a non-profit humanitarian and relief organization. She is dedicated to promoting peace and reconciliation between Vietnam and the United States. 
In concluding her lecture, Hayslip said, "The past is in the history. All that we can change is now. We can make it better for our children and grandchildren. We must look around and ask ourselves, 'How can we live in peace?"' 
Hayslip's lecture was sponsored by The Notre Dame Asian American Association, as well as other campus sponsors. 
Tuesday, March 28, 1995 

Career Day 
continued from page 1 
there as well, to answer questions about various grad school application exams, including the GREs, LSATs, and MCATs. Mary Ann Roemer of the Center for Social Concerns will be there to talk about oppor­tunities for postgraduate service. 
The Arts and Letters Career Day is spon­sored by the Office of Career and Placement. 
Gender equity lawsuit filed against NAACP 
By SONYA ROSS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

A $2 million sex discrimination lawsuit has been filed against the NAACP, accusing the civil rights group of giving women employees lower pay and fewer perks than men who do the same work. 
The lawsuit, filed Friday in U.S. District Court in Washington, was brought on behalf of about 40 women who held professional or management positions in the NAACP from 1991 through this year. 
The lawsuit names as defendants the NAACP, former board Chairman William Gibson, Acting Executive Director Earl Shinhoster, Acting Deputy Director Fred Rasheed, General Counsel Dennis Courtland Hayes, former Executive Director Benjamin Chavis and former Deputy Director Lewis Myers. 
The defendants "failed and refused, in nearly all instances, to properly investigate or redress economic grievances or ques­tions of the women," the lawsuit says. 
The lawsuit seeks $2.1 million in punitive and compensatory damages, plus an unspecified amount in back pay. 

The 1996Yearbook is now taking applications for the following paid positions: 
•Photography Editor 
•Seniors Editor 
•
Academics Editor •Sports Editor 

•Campus 
Life Editor • Year in Review Editor 

•Clubs 
Editor • Pl1otographers 


Applications are available at the LaFortune Information Desk and should be returned to the Student Activities office (315 LaFortune) by April7. Any questions, please call the Dome office at 631-7524. 
\ I 1 I I I I I 

Tuesday, March 28, 1995 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 5 
Gingrich:
Faith plays a part in kids' daily lives 

God provides a source of hope, researchers say 
By DAVID BRIGGS Associarod Pross 
In central Pennsylvania, a mop-haired second-grader says God appeared at his bedside every night for three months while his father was in the hos­pital. 
In Bridgeport, Conn., a poor and violent city, a 1 0-year-old latchkey child hears God talk­ing to him each time he opens the door to his house after school: "You don't have to be seared. Nothing's going to hap­pen to you. If something does happen to you, you don't have to worry. You're going to heav­en." 
In affluent Westchester County in New York, a second­grade child cried to the heavens for answers when his grandfa­ther had a stroke. One night, he said, he heard the reassuring voice of God: "It's not your fault." 
Throughout the nation -in cities, suburbs and rural towns -the children of baby boomers have heard the voice of God. 
And where once psychologists and academics dismissed the faith of children as, well, child­ish, a new wave of research is developing a powerful body of evidence that faith is a critical part of children's everyday liVes. 
No one speaks more com­pellingly of this faith than the children themselves. 
When the subject turns to Lod, within minutes children from first grade through ado­lescence feel free to discuss their deepest fears and long­ings, revealing a rich spiritual life that goes well beyond what they learned in Sunday school or at Sabbath services. 

These children -rich and poor, Catholic and Jewish, Lutheran and Hutterian ­speak of a personal God who helps them cope with their fear of' death, parental abuse and strife, the bully at school and the death of loved ones. 
Growing up in a world where violence, drugs, poverty and child abuse have become per­vasive, and at a time when chil­dren are exposed at ever ear­lier ages to the stresses of adulthood, the presence of God has become an invaluable source of hope in their lives. 
"Life has really gotten sort of unanchored. Children, youth today, are trying to find an­chors," said Bernard Spilka, a psychology professor at the University of Denver and the author of numerous studies on the religious development of children. "Religion, in a sense, provides those functions. It pro­vides meaning. It offers control and it buttresses one's self­esteem." 
Ten-year-old Tyrese is a shy, sensitive child, constantly bul­lied. His cousin was stabbed to death. For Tyrese, life without God is unimaginable. 
"Because who would you trust?" he asks. 
In the Gospel of' Matthew, Je­sus says that "unless you change and become like chil­dren, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven." In a re­cent letter to kids, Pope John Paul II said the biblical text is clear: "Is not Jesus pointing to children even as models for grown-ups?" 
But even in churches, kids are often shunted to the side at the beginning of worship ser­vices, and rarely given active roles in community life. 
In the social sciences, many psychologists, already influ­enced by Freud's assertion that religion is an illusion, are even more dismissive of the faith of children. 
"It's a very much underap­preciated aspect of children's lives," said David Elkind, a Tufts University professor who has studied the origin of reli­gion in children since the 1960s. 
What he and others have found in several studies is that personal faith contributes to the mental health and self­esteem of children. 
"It's essential in terms of be­lieving that the world can be a 
' Life has really 
gotten sort of unanchored. Children, youth today, are trying to find anchors. Religion, in a sense, provides those func­tions.' 
Bernard Spilka, psychology professor, University ofDenver 

good place, a safe place, a 
loving place," said David Heller, author of "The Children's God." "There has to be a belief that there is some sort of organizing principle that makes everything OK." 
In the minds and hearts of children, God is present at many of the most important junctures -both large and small -in their lives. 
For a well-off child at Memo­rial United Methodist Church in White Plains, N.Y., God is with him as he goes through the humiliation of being picked over by a bully choosing sides for a game on the school play­ground. 
"He has such an ego. 'Don't pick the loser,"' Brian says, mimicking his tormentor. "I wish to God the bully would lose in the game." 
Anna, a fifth-grade girl at St. 
Press­get a grip 
ByJOAN KIRCHNER Asscxiated Pres.~ 
Joseph's Catholic School in 
ATLANTA 

Hanover, Pa., felt she could 
House Speaker Newt 
confide her feelings only to God 
Gingrich today blasted news when the family dog died. 
reports that this week's con­"I couldn't talk to the rest of 
gressional debate on term my family because they were 
limits will ~•.·..... ~··-· . . 
really very sad and they would 
divide!> have gotten mad at me. I talked 
Repub-', ,_.'"\· 
to God and asked if everything 
licans, say-, r· '"" • ·~ would be all right." 
1

ing the r1 ~---• . y .
And was everything all right? 
p r e s s . .. ·
.411

She breaks out in a smile. 
"needs to' _..,. "He didn't really say any­
get a grip · '~J1 thing, but we have a new dog." 
on itself." ­Katie, an eighth-grader at a 
"It seems Gingrich 
non-denominational Christian 
to be the school whose parents divorced 
Washington press corps'when she was 2 and who is 
desire to find some problem now struggling to fit in with her 
for us," Gingrich said at a new stepfamily, said she found 
news conference after deliv­
a sense of peace when recent 
ering a speech to Atlanta 
troubles at home and school led 
business lead(lrs. her to escape to the basement 
"We have more disagree­to be alone with God. 
ment over term limits, but ev· "I just went downstairs and 
erybody knew that last year," prayed and read my Bible and 
he said. that helped me," she said. "It's 
Gingrich predicted that very hard to explain unless you 
four-fifths of Republicans will experienced it." 
support term limits and that the measure will pass if half If baby boomers look back at 
the Democrats vote for it. the '50s and early '60s as a 
Of Republicans who don't time of innocence, when the 
support the term limits pro­idyllic family life portrayed on 
posal. Gingrich said partyTV sitcoms fueled their belief in 
leaders "are not going to try an orderly world, their kids 
to muscle them. On constitu· have no such shelter. 
tional amendments, peopleIn 1969, for example, 14 per­
have to be allowed to vote 
cent of children lived in pover­
their conscience." The term ty; by 1993, 23 percent of 
limits are part of the GOP youths lived in poverty. Since 
"Contract With America." 1980, the numbers of children 
Asked if the term limit reported abused and neglected 
debate wm become a battle has almost tripled. 
between Gingrich and Senate When Elkind started inter­
Majority Leader Bob Dole, he viewing children about God in 
replied: "The news media the 1960s, drugs or the fear of 
needs to get a grip on itself." 
violence were far from their 
Gingrich said he and Dole minds. 
have a good relationship. "The stresses on kids today 
''We're doing great. We have have increased enormously. We 
the most successful team in have a lot of evidence of that, 
the history of the modern but we as a society don't want 
Congress." to listen. We don't really appre­
Gingrich had some positiveciate how much stress they're 
words about President under," Elkind said. 
Clinton. 
UPCOMING EVENTS 

THURSDAY, MARCH 30, 1995 
VANESSA SIDDLE WALKER 
EMORY UNMRSllY 
HISTORICAL IMAGES OF TEACHING: REVIVING THE PERSPECTIVE OF AFRICAN­AMERICAN TEACHERS 
4:15P.M. ROOM 124 CENTER FOR SOCIAl CONCERNS 
Emilie Vonesso Siddle Wolker is Assistonl Professor of Edurohon ol Emory University. A199().92 Nofionol Acodemy of Education Sper~cer Posldoctorol Fellow. Dr. Wolker's current reseorch focuses on the socill'tducotionol culture of Southern segregated schoo~. ond on developing writing skills in urban students. She eorned md Ed.D. hom Horvord t/;er~ly. 
FUTURE SPEAKERS IN THIS SERIES WILL BE: 
Bamara ~c~nei~er, ~rill oili, ~:1~ ~.m., Room 1~~~ t.~.t. Anfuon~ B~~ ~ril11ltll, ~:1~ ~.m., Room 1~(, t.~.t. 

page 6 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, March 28, 1995 
Federal judge se Florida's past remembered 
fifty years on b 
ByJAY REEVES 
Associat~ Press 
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. 
Pipe,,l,n one band, cane in the oilier, U.S. District Judge Seybourn H. Lynne owes alle­gia~(ie to no one other than the•.ptesident who gave him ,b.isjob. . 
.'Tb~t.Jl1eans Lyn~e is free; HatTY roman died in 197Z. 
It a means that . 

tynn wJ.t~ nea · "L··"''"·..ii." • ., ... ., decades on the . . is,. aJJ~Prding to the Feder Judicial Center in Washington, the nation's longest-serving fed6ra1judge. 
·Lynne is a. smiling little man with a white handkerchief folded smartly in the bre~st pocket of his gray suit and, in Alabama, an equally recogniz­able gift for the art of compro­mise.nr 
At 87, his hearing is fading somewhat and he pauses to .~..........,..• even those from 
J;~ C~!~!_..!!~':.L 
Banquet rooms available for up to 200 

1991, 1992, and 1993 
Szechwan•Cantonese•American Chinese Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 days Sunday Buffet Brunch-Every Sunday $8.95 for Adults 
$3.95 for Children under 10 
(219)272-7376 • 130 Dixieway S. (U.S. 31 in Roseland) at Randall's Inn South Bend, IN 
Saint Mary's College Senior Class Formal 
April 22, 1995 Century Center, South Bend, IN 7:00pm -2:00 am Music, Cocktails, Dinner, Dancing Tickets: $80 per couple ($40 singles) 
LAST CHANCE FOR STUDENTS(including ND students) WHO WISH TO A'ITEND TO MAKE A$40 DEPOSIT 
DEPOSIT COLLECITON: THURSDAY, MARCH 30 IN LEMANS LOBBY FROM 12pm -2pm and 5pm -8pm First come first serve basis 
Remaining balance will be collected April 4th and 5th. Any questions call Jean @273-9303 or Isabel @284-5125 
By BILL KACZOR 
Associated Press 
PENSACOLA, Fla. 

A utility crew digs up a British cannon from beneath a downtown street and divers find a 16th-century Spanish shipwreck buried in the silt of Pensacola Bay. 
Scientists clone DNA from brain tissue preserved by the muck of a swamp amid the re­mains of Indians buried 7,000 years ago only a few miles from where modern explorers are launched into space. 
Chain mail and other artifacts from an earlier era of explo­ration are unearthed in Talla­hassee. They are evidence Hernando de Soto camped in Florida's present-day capital 456 years ago. 
These are among recent ar­chaeological discoveries that have shed new light on events from Florida's past, in the era before it became a state on March 3, 1845. 
Historians, aided by high technology, are adding to the knowledge of Florida's pre­statehood past. They are mi­crofilming and computerizing archives in Spain, Mexico, Cuba, Florida and Texas. 
"The future of our past is bright," says Eugene Lyon, di­rector of the Center for Historic Research at Flagler College in St. Augustine. 
That past began millions of years ago when volcanic islands merged to form Florida's penin­sula. 
Humans appeared about 12,200 years ago, scientists be­lieve, based on a 1993 discov­ery. That's the age of a mastodon tusk found east of Tallahassee. Cut marks indicate humans butchered the animal at least 700 years before the famed Clovis Indian sites in the West. 
In 1984, researchers began exhuming skeletons buried more than 6,900 to 8,000 years ago near Titusville. 
One of the most exciting finds was about 90 brains described as the oldest ever recovered for research. 
Spanish explorer Juan Ponce de Leon is credited with discov­ering Florida in 1513 during Easter week, naming it for the Passover of Flowers. But histo­rians believe other Europeans visited earlier. based on pre­1513 maps. 
A number of Spaniards look­ing for gold and other riches explored Florida and Hernando de Soto is the best known of them. He landed with about 600 men, possibly in the vicini­ty of Tampa Bay, in 1539. Leaving a trail of dead Indians, he pushed into Arkansas and back to the Mississippi River where he died in 1542. 
De Soto's band celebrated the first Christmas in what is now the United States at Tallahas­see. In 1987, a construction crew there began finding chain mail, distinctive beads, a cross­bow point, copper coins and other artifacts. 
Tristan de Luna led an expe­dition of 1,500, including 100 Aztec mercenaries. to Pen­sacola Bay in 1559 to establish a Spanish colony as a base for exploration and to protect ship­wrecked sailors from Indians. 
Archaeologists in 1992 found a 16th-century Spanish galleon on the bottom of Pensacola Bay and they suspect it may be one of Luna's ships, which were wrecked by a hurricane. Luna's colony lasted only two years. 

THE NOTRE DAME POM PON SQUAD invites you to attend an informational meeting for those 
interested in trying out for the 1995-96 squad! DATE: March 29, 1995 TIME: 7:30pm PLACE: Notre Dame Room in LaFortune (2nd Floor) Questions? Call Shloe 634-2777 or Jill284-5259! 
WE HOPE TO SEE YOU THERE! 
If you are the Sean, Shaun or Shawn who was dancing with the elderly woman in this picture at the Turtle Kraals/Half Shell Raw Bar parking lot in Key West on St. Patrick's Day 1995, 11:30 p.m., 
·• please contact me-
I also danced with you that evening. 

701 W. Washington #2 217-344-7546 
FATHER RICHARD McBRIEN 
PROFESSOR OF THEOLOGY 
SPEAKS ON 
''STRENGTHS AND WEAKNESSES OF THE PRESENT PAPACY?'' 

Wednesday, March 29 7:00p.m. at St. Edward's Hall 

I I I 1 1 I I\ I\ I I I 1 1 I 1 I I\ 1 1 1 I I I I • I 
Tuesday, March 28, 1995 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Iraqi calls Americans 'spies' 
Two U.S. men tried in court, granted hope By EILEEN ALT POWELL 
Associared Press 
BAGHDAD, Iraq 

·A top Iraqi official called two Americans who strayed across the border "spies" Monday and suggested they were intent on sabotage. Still. he indicated there was some hope for le­niency in their case. 
Saadi Mehdi Saleh, Iraq's parliament speaker, talked to The Associated Press two days after the Americans were tried in an Iraqi court and sentenced to eight years in prison for ille­gally entering the country. 
The men -David Daliberti, 41, of Jacksonville, Fla., and William Barloon, 39, from New Hampton, Iowa -are both em­ployees of U.S. defense contrac­tors in Kuwait. They crossed the Iraq-Kuwait frontier March 13. 
Saleh was the first Iraqi offi­cial to comment on their con­victions. 
"Those two detainees were entering our border secretly and by illegal manner, maybe for political or technical rea­sons. And we have detained them to know these reasons," he said, according to his official translator. 
Implying their motivation may have been sabotage, he said: "We have no aggressive intentions toward those two Americans. But we have just applied Iraqi law according to the manner we do to all the for­eigners who are coming for sabotage or other political rea­sons." 
An translation by the AP of Saleh's remarks included the following quote: "Sending spies or saboteurs, we reject this 
IRAQ 

equation and don't agree with it. The United States of America must understand this fact and then every problem will have its solution." 
Conviction of the more seri­ous charge of sabotage would have resulted in a minimum of 20 years in prison and possibly the death sentence for the two men. 
Asked if there was room for leniency, Saleh said: "The hu­manitarian doors are not shut to them yet." 
French officials intervened with Baghdad to seek the Americans' release, Foreign Ministry spokesman Richard Duque said Monday in Paris. He did not indicate how Iraq re­sponded. 
Ryszard Krystosik, a Polish diplomat who handles U.S. in­terests in Baghdad, urged Iraq to free the Americans, saying they are "absolutely innocent," and insisted on the right to visit them in prison. 
The United States broke diplomatic relations with Iraq after its 1990 invasion of Kuwait. 
White House spokesman Mike McCurry said Saleh's sugges­tion the two Americans were intent on sabotage was "just not true." 
"They know that. It was an innocent mistake. These two crossed across the border and had no intention to conduct any kind of sabotage at all," Mc­Curry said Monday. 
Barloon's wife and brother also rejected Saleh's veiled ac­cusation. 
In an interview from Kuwait City, Linda Barloon told ABC's "Good Morning America" that the insinuation was "totally ridiculous." 
"I can't believe this is now turning into this type of situa­tion and I can't even fathom it," Mrs. Barloon said. 
Barloon's brother, Ed, told NBC-TV's "Today" program the two men's Iraqi defense lawyer told the court they didn't have maps, compasses or any elec­tronic or navigational equip­ment in their vehicle when they were seized. 
UN warns Serb forces that NATO 01ay bo01b 
By DAVID CRARY 
Associared Press 
SARAJEVO 

Unable to stop the intensify­ing war in Bosnia, U.N. peace­keepers warned Monday that NATO may need to bomb Serb forces to prevent them from shooting at civilians. 
The threat came as Serbs re­ported the fiercest fighting yet on a northeastern battlefront where troops of the Muslim-led government have been gaining ground. The Serbs also said they launched a major coun­terattack on government troops in central Bosnia. And Croatian Serbs threatened to cross the border to help their ethnic kin in Bosnia. 
"Events are spinning out of control," said Colum Murphy, a spokesman for the U.N. peace­keeping force. "Our worst fears could become reality in the not­too-distant future." 
Murphy warned the Serbs that the new commander of the peacekeeping force, Lt. Gen. Rupert Smith, would call for NATO air strikes if the they de­liberately shell civilians. 
"There are no hollow threats," he said. "Attacks that deliberately target civilians will meet a determined response, including use of air power." 
Smith's predecessor, Lt. Gen. Sir Michael Rose, was criticized for opposing the use of air at­tacks on Serb artillery pound­ing the U.N. "safe area" of Bi­hac in northwest Bosnia late last year. 
In Washington Monday, Sec­retary of State Warren Christo­pher told reporters that "we have long been in favor of more robust use of NATO airpower," and he said he welcomed the 
U.N. peacekeepers' warning. 
A week of intense lighting has all but shattered an already tenuous three-month truce. 
Each warring side has blamed the other for spurning a politi­cal settlement in favor of more combat. 
The increasingly confident Bosnian government army has seized 35 square miles of Serb­held territory as well as a vital communications tower in cen­tral Bosnia. A second tower in the northeast was virtually sur­rounded. 
In apparent retaliation, Serbs shelled the government-held towns of Gorazde and Mostar over the weekend, killing a child and wounding about 20 civilians. 
The Bosnian army said Serb gunners also killed three peo­ple on a mountain road that is the only overland route in and out of besieged Sarajevo. Sniper fire in the Bosnian capi­tal Monday killed a man in his mid-60s. 
The Bosnian Serb news agency, SRNA, quoted Serb mil­itary sources as saying the gov­ernment on Monday unleashed the fiercest attack yet of its eight-day offensive in the mountains near the northeast city of Tuzla. U.N. peacekeep­ers confirmed increased fight­ing in the area but had no details. 
On the other major front, north of Travnik in central Bosnia, SRNA said Serb forces launched a counterattack after checking a government offen­sive on Sunday. Large numbers of government troops report­edly were surrounded on snow­covered mountain slopes. 
Croatian Serbs, who like Bosnian Serbs have carved out a self-proclaimed republic, also threatened to join the fighting in Bosnia if government offen­sives continue. 
The Bosnian war has left more than 200,000 people dead or missing since April 1992. 
TI-lE 1995 SENIOR INFORMAL -Friday, April 21st­
.....,_ 


TO BENEFIT THE HOLY CROSS MISSION 

IN EAST AFRICA ' 
Jlt:Xtis(77 Salecr theOJnpJsMnbtry011rein the Heilvrgh Lilrcuy 
Full Sit Down Dinner Danqud 
Three Great Bands fcc Dandng 
Krautmstr ~ Litt!eMi/ftn ~ GargeandtheFraxs..,..~~ 
At St. Patrick's Parish Center Downtown South Bend 
' $10/person 


DtxJI·s open at 6:00p.m. Dinner promptly at 6:30 p.tn 
' 
11111e Best\ Party of the YearII 
BeThercl 
-~ 
(Z\MPUS
1\11!1\llSTRY 

Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
Students $Earn some extra cash$ 
$2o.oo 
Bring Student I.D. 
To: American Biomedical CTR 515 Lincolnway West-south Bend 
Help save a Life 
Hours M-F: 9-6 
... 

Sat: 8-5 

234-6010 
Bring this Coupon 


18 yrs. old, bring I.D. with Proof of current address. 

I I I I I I/!! I I I I I 1 'I I I I J, 1 '1 I/ • 
page 8 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, March 28, 1995 
Mandela dismisses estranged wife from Cabinet 
Winnie fired from post as deputy minister 
By JOHN DANISZEWSKI Associated Press 
CAPE TOWN, South Africa 
President Nelson Mandela fired his estranged wife from the Cabinet on Monday after enduring weeks of her insub­ordination. What's uncertain now is whether the woman he once loved, Winnie Mandela, will cause even more problems outside government. 
Mandela summarily dis­missed his wife of 37 years from her post of deputy minis­ter of arts and culture with a curt letter carried 100 yards to her office by a secretary. 
Some political analysts think Mrs. Mandela may still have the last ntugh because she is now free to build a power base inde­pendent of her 76-year-old hus­band, who plans to retire in four years. 
Even before news of the dis­missal broke, political analysts were weighing her chances of succeeding her husband. 
The African National Congress and most of its allies quickly backed Mandela's deci­sion to get rid of Mrs. Mandela, whose acts of defiance had be­come an embarrassment. 
In recent weeks, Mrs. Man­dela, 60, had denounced the government's gradualist ap-
Mexicans work to 'get by' 
By JUAN ZAMORANO 
Associated Press 
MEXICO CITY 
Some Mexicans are working longer hours to skirt the crisis. Others are sending their wives to fmd jobs -a last resort for many Mexican men who firmly believe a woman's place is in the home. 
Mexicans across the social spectrum are doing what they must to get by as prices rise, jobs vanish and purse strings tighten. But now the money crunch that began with the pe­so's devaluation Dec. 20 is hit­ting home. 
The crisis has widened as fac­tories and businesses close or lay off workers. Most econo­mists believe Mexico is plung­ing into a recession. 
Labor Minister Santiago Onate had said March 11 that least 500,000 Mexicans will lose their jobs over the first six months of the year. For many others who remain on the job, this is a time of just getting by. 
Rosi Rodriguez, a 23-year-old single mother, now tries to plump up her salary as a mes­senger by selling religious stamps on the street. 
"I work here about three hours a day and the pesos I earn are enough for milk for my daughter," she said, looking pale. 
She and more than 80 million 

(?MPUSMINISTRY 
Get a "Grab 'NGo" 

other Mexicans will get another jolt on April 1 when the nation­al sales tax increases from the current 10 percent to 15 per­cent, as part of President Ernesto Zedillo's austerity package to prevent a greater economic collapse. 
Meanwhile, thousands of dis­placed workers are filtering into the streets, selling every­thing from chewing gum and flowers, lamps and candy on the streets of major cities. For many with jobs, the hours are getting longer. 
"I have decided to work more," said taxi driver Mario Sanchez, admitting with obvi­ous sadness that his wife has started work in a dress shop to help make ends meet. 
Several weeks ago, the 32­year-old taxi driver worked from 7 a.m. to 4 p.m. and hoped to earn the equivalent of $21. Now he must drive until 10 p.m. to earn the same amount and feed his two chil­dren. 
"My poor wife has to take care of the kids then go to work to help out with household ex­penses," he said. 
"But it is a way to get past the austerity," he added, contending that he believes the crisis will be long-term and not "transitory" as the government has predicted. 
"I believe that because the people who get into my taxi are 
You are invited to join us for the first of ongoing luncheon gatherings to discuss and learn about our faith. 
Power 
or 
Bring 
Your Tray 


proach to social reform, made an unauthorized trip abroad, split the ranks of the ANC's Women's League and, most seriously, been accused by po­lice of bribe-taking and influ­ence-peddling. 
"This decision has been taken in the interest of good govern­ment and to ensure the highest standards of discipline," Mandela said. 
But in the miserable squatter camp of Phola Park outside of Johannesburg, the kind of place where Mrs. Mandela has her most loyal support, anguished moans rose as people heard the news. 
"No, no, this should not have happened. If she had made a mistake, they should have sat down to talk with her," said Al­bert Booysens, an unemployed laborer. "She worked hard for the freedom of our people." 
Mandela said he did not ex­pect Mrs. Mandela's departure to cause much of a rift. 
"I am convinced that I have the situation well in hand," he said. 
But with a defiant character like Nomzamo Winnie Mandela, no one can be sure. 
Mrs. Mandela was not cowed by white authorities who hounded her tirelessly during her husband's 27-year stay in prison, when she rose to inter­national fame as an anti­apartheid campaigner. 
After Mandela's release, he separated from her in 1992, cit­ing unspecified differences. 
A year later, she was con­
victed of a political kidnapping in which a 13-year-old boy was murdered. She paid a fine. 
Her public career seemed to be doomed. 
It wasn't. 
Mrs. Mandela fought her way back to center stage, tirelessly championing the cause of South Africa's poorest while dressing and acting like a member of royalty. 
Through chutzpah and charisma, she was elected pres­ident of the ANC's Women's League and -in a surprise ­was named a deputy cabinet minister in Mandela's national unity government last year. 
If Mandela hoped to confine his wife to a role as an obedient junior member of Cabinet, he was in for a shock. 


always complaining and I hear that a lot of Mexicans are losing their jobs." 
The costs of austerity are evi­dent on the streets, where at least 1 million people form the backbone of an underground economy. 
Now there are more street vendors than ever, besieging motorists with offers of tor­tillas, soft drinks, dolls, clothes and balloons. 
In Mexico City's central plaza, the Zocalo, musicians from the southern state of Guerrero too­dle and boom with trumpets, clarinets and a drum -hoping for spare change. Things are slow at home, where times are always hard. 
Homero Aridjis, a Mexican writer and social commentator, wrote Monday in the newspa­per Reforma that the crisis was rattling nerves all the way through the middle class and on down. 
"Inflation is on the rise ... and so is desperation," wrote Aridjis. 
RESERVE OFFICERS' 
TRAINING C 0 R P S 

SUNDWEBSCBOOLFOBPEOPlE ON THEIR WAY TO THE TOP. 
If you didn't sign up for ROTC as a By the time you have graduated from freshman or sophomore, you can still college, you'll have the credentials of catch up to your classmates by 
an Army officer. You'll also have attending Army ROTC Camp Chal­the self-confidence and discipline lenge, a paid six-week summer it takes to succeed in college and course in leadership training. beyond. 
ARMY ROTC: 

m SMARTEST COWGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE. 
For details, visit 216 Pasquerilla Center or call 
631-6986 

-------~ 
'I' I\' 1 I I I I I I I I I I I 1 1 'I I • • 1' I I 1 \I I I I I I I I 1 I I I I I I 1 I I 
VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, March 28, 1995 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lu= Managing Editor Business Manager Suzanne Fry Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor ......................... Michael Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................Sean Gallavan Photo Editor .................................. Rob Finch Observer Marketing Director .......... Pcte Coleman Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Controller .............................................Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by tl>e students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­wrials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commemaric:s, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors. and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
• CAPITOL COMMENTS 

While it is too early to say, "I told you so," I can see a time in the near future when Democrats like me will have the opportunity to utter those words. The Hepublican Contract with America is only halfway through its one hundred days, and the American public is already growing wary of the GOP cuts. This week's Washington Post-ABC News sur­vey reveals some interesting findings. 
Gary Caruso 

Many people forget that President Clinton won the presidency with less than fifty percent of the vote due to Ross Perot's third party candidacy. Traditionally, both major parties can count on a minimum base of close to forty percent of the vote. 
That leaves about twenty percent of the electorate as the swing vote which determines the presidential winner. Taking those given bases into account, the numbers of this week's polls are beginning to spell trouble for Republicans in Congress. 
Most Americans believe that the GOP is cutting too far into social programs that benefit children, the elderly, the poor, and the middle class. 
The poor and children historically have had little organized political sup­port in Washington. However, the elderly and middle class are two of the largest and most vocal segments of our political system. When they desert a party en masse. like they did for LBJ against Goldwater in 1964 or for Reagan against Mondale in 1984, historical landslides occur. 
After six weeks of Republican rule of Congress. 51 percent of Americans say tt]e GOP is cutting too much, 30 percent think the cuts are about the right amount, and 18 percent think too little is being cut. 
More interesting are the numbers regarding President Clinton's approval rating. Currently, he has and approval rating of 52 percent of Americans, a number that has remained unchanged since January. This percentage lies be­tween his low of 43 percent and his high of 63 percent. He clearly is the benefi­ciary of the Republican budget slaughter on Capitol Hill. 
The honeymoon for Congressional Republicans is drawing to a quick close. On January 4th when they took control of Congress, only 45 percent of Americans (about the statistical mini­mum of Democrats) thought the GOP would go too far in helping the rich by cutting government services for the poor and average Americans. On March 19th, that number rose to 59 percent, certainly a percentage that equates to landslide proportions. 
Not only did the numbers have a nega­tive effect on the GOP, the numbers also gave Democrats a boost. In January, 43 percent thought the Congressional Democrats would go too far in keeping costly government services that are wasteful and out of date. 
The March figures fell to 34 percent, statistically lower than the base support of the Republican Party. Obviously Americans have a twisted definition of wasteful and out-of-date programs. They seem to be only those programs that affect others, not the ones that help me. 
Democrats and Republicans split on several specific issues, though. Areas where President Clinton received more trust than Congressional Republicans included the following : helping the poor, protecting the environment, pro­tecting Social Security, helping the mid­dle class, and protecting America's chil· dren. 
His percentages ranged in the low fifties versus the Republican's mid thir­ties-except for the children's issue, 49 to 40 percent, and helping the poor, a landslide 61 to 27 percent. 

Republicans, on the other hand, received more trust in cutting taxes, reforming welfare, reducing the deficit, handling crime, handling the economy, and handling the main problems the nation faces. 
Interestingly, however, Republican only received low fifties percentages for the first three issues, versus mid to high thirties for Democrats. However, crime and the economy were in the forty per­centage range for both parties varying only from 4 to 7 percent in favor of Republicans. Handling the main prob­lems of the nation was 46 to 39 percent for the Republicans. 
Mark Twain once said that the report of his demise was an exaggeration. Losing last November's election seemed like a crushing blow to Democrats, just as Clinton's victory over Bush two years prior had seemed to Republicans. But in politics, the strange is the ordinary, and a week is an eternity. 
Finally, remember the Bill Clinton who allegedly had several extramarital affairs? Remember the Bill Clinton who promoted Gays is the military over the moral objections of decent folk? Remember the Bill Clinton who is pro­choice over the objections of many churchgoing Americans? 
When the question was asked who is trusted more to uphold family values, the results were: Congressional Republicans 45 percent, Bill Clinton 44 percent. It seems that, thus far, Bill Clinton's demise has been greatly exag­gerated. 
Gary J. Caruso. Notre Dame '73. has worked in Washington, D.C. at the U.S. Hose of Representatives for two Congressmen and two House Committees. He is currently a "Displaced Democrat" seeking a new position. 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• 000NESBURY 
MAN ... I HAVeN'T 

PAMN/ UK&WH&N
HOW toNG
fUT 7HI!J 8/J,lJ 

HAV&Y()() ANOTH&R. YOU81BA/
5/ta N!XaJWA!' 

1/NPIUAet& UP YOUR
ee&NH/:R&,

RE-&t&CTCP... 50RR.Y 
IUtef<,.. CAR..! 7Jil.fT
KIIJ? 
IVA~ WAY

\ I /A/OK& 0
0 0 aJOt..'
Y()() Uf! 0 \ 
\
FATH£/<. 
\ 

• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Literature is the one place 
in any society where, within the secrecy of our own heads, we can hear voices talk­ing about everything in every possible way." 
-Salman Rushdie 

r 
r r r r r 
r 
r 
~ 
r 

r 
r r r r 
~ 
f 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r r 
r 
f 
1 1 1 1 I I I I I 1 I I I I' I I 1 I! ' 1 1 1 1 1 1 1, I 1 o 1 1 1 I • I I J I I I 1 I'' I I' 1 I I I 
;ACCENT
page 10 Tuesday, March 28, 1995 
Judy and friends 'jam' for East Africa 
Seven hour music-marathon to benefit East African school 
By PETE RUBINAS to build a new science wing and Assistant Accent Editor assist parents with the twenty­two dollar per year tuition. 
T
he LaFortune Ballroom The residents of Breen will be rocking tonight Phillips have been collecting when Judy Hutchinson pledges from friends and family and others take the stage in Ifreen Phillips Hall's fourth annual "Judy's Jam." Started 'Jf attendance at four years ago to raise funds for 
this Jam mirrors 

the Catholic Worker House, "Judy's Jam" shifts its focus turnouts at the previ­this year to Africa and Father 
ous three, the poten­
Tom McDermott, a CSC priest currently serving as a mission­tial for helping Father ary in Uganda, East Africa. McDermott is great.' 
Hutchinson, rectress of Breen Phillips Hall and amateur gui­tar player and singer, will be in support of this seven-hour the headline act of the musical­marathon of music and fun. In ly rich evening. She will be addition, donations will be ac­joined by such campus person­cepted in the Ballroom on the alities as Emily Lord, Sabor night of the Jam. If attendance Latino, Susan Hoge, Doug from at this Jam mirrors turnouts at George and the Freaks, the previous three, the potential 
Judy Hutchinson will perform tonight in the LaFortune Ballroom to benefit East Africa mission.
Kimberlee Smith, and several for helping Father McDermott Glee Club ensembles. is great. Hutchinson began playing the the Notre Dame Indigo Girl," formances for the purpose of An ardent supporter of While holding the position of guitar when she was twelve or says Hutchinson. performing in front of a crowd 
"Judy's Jam" while he was here rectress of Breen Phillips Hall, thirteen years old. Her parents Does Judy enjoy performing anyway. "I do it for the good at Notre Dame, Father Hutchinson also serves the uni­gave her a guitar then, and she in front of large crowds of peo-cause," she says. McDermott set off at the end of versity in another capacity as has been playing ever since. As ple such as the one that will be A good cause, indeed. So,
last year to serve as a mission­coordinator of Notre Dame's Judy put it, she sings "just present in the Ballroom this head to the LaFortune Ballroom ary in Africa. His focus there Mentor Program. A Lilly Grant about anything I can get my evening? Well, no, not exactly. between seven and two this has become a school in the program assisting sophomore hands on that I sound halfway-In fact, she really doesn't like it evening to hear some greatcommunity that is lacking in minority students, the Mentor decent singing." This includes at all. It seems that every time music and show your support resources. Judy and the resi­Program matches each minority music by Mary Chapin Judy gets up on the stage, for Father Tom and his work in dents of Breen Phillips Hall student with a faculty member Carpenter, James Taylor, the something embarrassing oc-East Africa. Judy and friends hope to raise enough money to who serves as the student's Eagles, 10,000 Maniacs, and of curs. While she says such sto-only do· this once a year, so help Father McDermott with his "mentor." The program also course, her favorite performers, ries are too numerous to re-tonight is the only chance this work at this school. Among sponsors other events and ac­the Indigo Girls. count, Hutchinson points out semester to see her perform in other projects, the school needs tivities at Notre Dame such as "I like to think of myself as that she does not do these per-this type of setting. 
speakers and social gatherings. 
SMC Women's Choir: Singin' it up in the South 

By ROSE MACIEJEWSKI piece has a special place in the hearts of School, said that singing Accenr Writer the choir's members, as it was commis-at her alma mater was 
sioned by Saint Mary's in honor of the especially exciting. 
W
ile most students spent much college's sesquicentennial celebration. "It was great that the 
f Spring Break lounging The second half of the concert fea-choir was able to visit 
around at home or on a sunny tured a wide variety of secular works, my hometown," she beach somewhere, the St. Mary's from the haunting poetry of the Korean said. "I really enjoyed Women's Choir stayed busy by touring song "Kashiri" to the soothing melody of showing everyone through eleven states in nine days. "Skye Boat Song," an arrangement by around the future home Along the way, these women encoun­Saint Mary's senior choir member of the 1996 Olympics!" tered many interesting people and Maureen Loughran. Obviously, the places, including a friendly bus driver The thirty-three members of the choir Olympics are the big named Steve. then traveled to historic Richmond, talk around Atlanta 
· The choir, under the direction of Dr. Virginia. After performing two concerts, right now. The choir Nancy Menk, began their tour on the choir was treated to a sightseeing wrapped up their visit to Saturday March 11 in Columbus, Ohio at tour of the beautiful city and its histori-Atlanta with a wonder­St. Joseph Cathedral. After participating cal Civil War sights. ful dinner at Erin's in a mass, the choir performed for the An overnight stop in the city of home. After five straight Columbus community in a concert that Charlotte, North Carolina provided the days of fast food, all of evening. choir a necessary respite from their hec-the choir members were 
The first half of the choir's program tic schedule. Ironically, however, the more than happy to consisted of sacred music from the choir was able to exercise their voices enjoy a warm, home­twentieth century. The highlight of this despite the break. While eating dinner cooked meal. portion of the concert was the per­at "The Cajun King," one of Charlotte's On Thursday, the formance of "The Canticle of Mary" by premier diners, the choir members were group arrived at what Minnesota composer Libby Larsen. This talked into sharing their talent with a was perhaps the 
Photo courtesy of Rose Maciejewski 

group of capti-• favorite destination on Choir members enjoy a day at the ballpark. 
vated members the tour-Clearwater, 
Wednesday to prepare for the 
of a Saturn car Florida. Sophomore Corinne Hanrahan Homecoming Concert. Held Thursdayconvention. The probably expressed it best when she March 23, the concert was a beautiful women joined said, "Knowing that we were going to way to top off a busy and exciting week. 
the 7th Street conclude our tour in the state of sunny So, was all the rehearsing and travel­Gator Band in an Florida definitely made all our time on ing worth it? The choir members need
inspired version the bus worthwhile!" 
only recall the endless eightiesof the classic Among the highlights of Florida, 
marathon, the on-bus limbo competition tune "Oh, Danny besides the warm sun, of course, was to the melody of Barry Manilow favorite 
Boy." the choir's performance at a spring 
"Copa cabana," and the enthusiasm ofTuesday found training baseball game between the St. 
the crowded AI Lang stadium duringthe choir mem-Louis Cardinals and the Toronto Blue 
their performance. In addition, the 
hers in the south-Jays at AI Lang Stadium in St. 
much-anticipated trip to the Waffle 
ern metropolis of Petersburg. Arranged by Melissa Peters, 
House, dolphin sightings from the
Atlanta, Georgia. a senior choir member, this perfor­beach, the perfect suns, and the friendly While there, the mance was a dream come true for some atmosphere of the "Resort 400" clear women per-of the women. For this special event, the things up even further.
formed concerts choir prepared special versions of "The If any doubt remains, however, it dis­at both National Anthem" and, of course, the appears when the women recall their 0 g I e t h o r p e ballpark classic "Take Me Out to the impromptu rendition of "The Bells of St. 
University and Ballgame." 
Mary's" on Pier 66 and the friendship
Marist School. The choir returned to South Bend and fun that was shared during the 
Junior choir Monday morning after a twenty-one week. Yes, the hard work was definitelymember Erin hour bus ride home. Dr. Menk gave the worth it. As Melissa Peters aptly sums it 
PhotocourtesyofRoseMaciejewski Shern, a gradu-women two days off from rehearsal 
up, "I love Tour!" 
Members of the choir gather to perform at Oglethorpe University. ate of the Marist before it was back to the grind again on 


....---~---~---~-­
I • • I I I I I I • I I I 1 • I 1 1 1 1, • 
ACCENT
Tuesday, March 28, I995 page II 
Program gives kids hope 
Volunteers help children in need at Children s Campus 
By ANDREA JORDAN Accem Wri1cr 
E 
veryone needs someone they ean look up to. It's a simple fuel of life and one with whieh we urn all well acquainted. Unfortunately, there are a lot of kids out there who aren't lucky enough to have a stable adult per­s.un in their life. The Sponsor Mentor Program which is affiliated with tlw Children's Campus helps meet this need. 
The Sponsor Mentor Program has been in existence for more 
HELPING HANDS 
than live years. Since these chil­dren are not with their parents, the program provides them with adult friends. With these adult frillnds they participate in a wide array of activities. Examples of such activities are going to the mall, dinner, movies, and basket­ball games. 
Currently, fifteen relationships exist. Each one consists of one adult and one child. The sponsor must contribute eight to ten hours per month, or basically two to three hours every other week. Sponsors volunteer for a year and they must be at least twenty-one years of age and have their own 
Today 
on 

WVFI 
6:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. 
Tuesday evenings from 6:30 to 
7:30 Andrew Ennis and Chris Turk raise the Union Jack and play the newest popular, dance, and experimental rock from the British Isles. In an effort to pro­JDOte such bands as the Stone Roses, Suede, Blur, and the Charlatains, Ennis and Turk <~onsult several British maga­zines and newspapers, and import CDs and singles for air­play before most professional stations know these bands even exist. Tracks from artists who may be the next Beatles, the Stones, or the Kink.':l are played during the hour. 
9:30 p.m. to 11 :30 p.m. 
For a more improvisational, l'ree-t1owing program, tune in to WVFI beginning at 9:30 tonight. Notre Dame's student leaders, Matt Orsagh and Dave Hungeling, occupy the airwaves for two hours of light discussion and informal talk with each other and with listeners on the phone. 
The Observer will be provid­ing its readers with a short pre­l'iew of some of WVFI's pro­grams each day this week. This information was compiled by Accent writer Dan Cichalski. 
transportation. 
Larry Dancy currently runs the program, and has been there for four years. Dancy remarks, "It is an exceptional program one of the most needed and that this is an intricate part of the child's treat­ment, as important as the counsel­ing itself." 
The children present in this pro­gram have a variety of problems. "These are all emotionally dis­turbed kids whose problems run from hyper-active to emotional, physical or sexual abuse" says Dancy. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are among the many who participate in this program. Erica Hernandez, a current senior at Notre Dame volunteers her time as a sponsor. 
Hernandez explains, "These individuals have been let down a lot, and as a sponsor, it is really important that you're there for them and you earn their trust." 
Daney has seen a great deal of progress with the Sponsor Mentor Program. He believes, "It gives the kids hope, inspiration and a person from the community to believe in." 
The sponsors are not paid to be there. They are there by their own accord. Because the children know this, they have a different outlook toward the sponsors, look­ing toward them as friends, not workers. 
With progress comes rewards, not only for the children but for the sponsors as well. Dancy says, "It is very rewarding for the spon­sor because they give themselves and because of an emotional need they have to fulfill." 
The process to enter this pro­gram is not a difficult one. It is necessary to contact Larry Dancy and arrange an interview. If selected, one must undergo a training session. Following the training session, the volunteer will be paired with a child from The Children's Campus. 
This type of experience can prove to be very rewarding. Erica's feelings about her child prove this, "I have noticed the progress in her and I take pride in the fact that she thinks of me as a big sister." 
The Children's Campus began as an orphanage in 1882, and now is a residential treatment center for children. The center is located on a sixteen-acre wooded site in Mishawaka, Indiana. It is a pri­vate, not-for-profit agency for emotionally disturbed children and adolescents between the ages of ten and seventeen that special­izes in a continuum of treatment. 
The advantage of such treat­ment is that it is developed based on the child's needs. Children benefit from the treatment because they do not have to move from one facility to another. Finally, the treatment saves on cost because each phase becomes progressively less expensive. 
Treatment is suited to meet the needs of each child. The goal for each individual child is for them to leave the program with good self­esteem, a strong value system, the ability to make suitable choices, and the maturity to accept respon­sibility. As a youngster moves from level to level, his or her envi­ronment becomes less restrictive. 
Treatment programs include Preferred Adolescent Care, Residential Treatment, Diagnostic and Evaluation, Group Homes, Therapeutic Foster Homes and Independent Living, the last and final step for the child. 
Preferred Adolescent Care pro­vides a safe environment where individual, group and family ther­apy, tutorial services and medica­tion management services are offered. Residential Treatment allows children to develop social skills while living in cottages, attending The Campus Academy, eating in the dining hall, and using recreational facilities on campus and in the community. 
Diagnostic and Evaluation gives a master report that includes psy­chological, psychiatric, and educa­tional evaluation, and an analysis of sexual abuse. Group Homes encourage children to continue meeting with their counselors and attending group therapy. Therapeutic Foster Homes provide an alternative for children who will not be reunited with their family. 
Independent Living gives the children a chance to live in off­campus apartments, another way to integrate them back into the community. 
Helping Hands presents service oriented features every Tuesday. 
• MEDICAL MINUTE 
Dealing with the pains of sprains 
By RYAN J. GRABOW 
Nationally Registered Emergency Medical Technician 
From 'blading, frisbee, and volleyball to basketball, lacrosse, and soccer, the quads and courts are alive once again now that most of us have been lured out of winter hibernation by the warm weather we've enjoyed over the last few weeks. Unfortunately. this increase in campus activity invariably means an increase in campus injuries as well. Pregame stretch­ing, proper footwear, and use of protective equipment can help reduce your risk ofinjury, but in the end it all boils down to luck if you can avoid that pesky sprained ankle so many of us know all too well this time of year. If you do happen to be one of the unlucky ones, here's some information to help you get over the pain and get back in the game! 
Sprain •.. the Pis for Pain! 
A sprain is an injury to a ligament, the fibrous band that holds bones together at a joint, due to a sudden twisting of the joint beyond its normal range of motion. The severity of a sprain is determined by the resulting tissue damage, ranging from a slightly stretched to a fully torn ligament. Sprains are characterized by pain {point tenderness and pain on movement), immediate swelling, disability or inability to use the joint, possible discoloration and deformity at the injury, and most often a popping or ripping sound.is heard. Recovery time is based not only on the severity of the injury, but also on the care one gives to the injury. 
R.l.C.E. =Recovery 
Many of us try to play through a sprain thinking we're going to "run it off," and end up injuring it even more due to our stupidity. The pain of a sprain is a good thing; it makes us baby the joint so the ligaments will have time to heal. To help ease the pain of your sprain and shorten its recovery time, use R.l.C.E. on the injury. 
Rest the injury as much as humanly possible. Playing with a mild sprain can easily lead to a more severe injury which can keep you out of the game for weeks. Apply a brace if you have one, use crutches or disabled trasportation to get around campus, and sit on your butt when you don't have to be moving around. 
Ice is one of the most important ingredients for a short and successful recovery from a sprain. The cold reduces swelling, bleeding, muscle spasms and the pain they cause. For the first forty-eight hours after the injury you should ice the area as much as possible in fifteen to twenty minutes intervals. Any type of icing method can be used provided the ice surrounds the entire injury, and you protect your skin from frostbite with a cloth or ace wrap. Many studies have shown that prompt and persistent icing within the first twen­ty-four hours after a sprain can cut your recovery time in half, compared to someone who does not lee their injury, or ices it only once or twice in that time. 
Compression applied through an ace bandage or elastic wrap will also help to limit internal bleeding and swelling at the injury site, in addition to giving extra stability and support to the Injured ligaments. The bandage can also help to protect the skin t'rom frostbite, In using a compression wrap, be sure to leave toes exposed so you can check for color change or swelling that would indicate the bandage is too tight. Keep the area compressed for the first two to three hours after the injury, then be sure to remove the wrap every half hour to allow blood to circulate freely. 
Elevation of the injury to about heart level by prop­ping it up with pillows will reduce circulation to the area and thus help control internal bleeding and swelling. 
If you injure your ankle and have severe pain, swelling and deformity, and/or discoloration at the injury sight, seek medical attention immediately. A severe sprain cannot be differentiated from a fracture without the use of an x-ray. In addition, if it is very painful to walk with your injm·y or you feel numbness or tingling in your toes seek medical attention immedi­ately. Otherwise. for minor spmins R.I.C.E. those injuries and I'll see you in Bookstore. Good Luck and Stay Healthy! 
Medical Minute runs every Tuesday in the Accent section of The Observer. Comments or Suggestions email: Ryaf.l.{. Grabow.l@nd. edu 
.. 

.--------_--­
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, March 28, 1995 

• NIT 

Michael returns to Manhattan Virginia Tech Hokies 
By MIKE NADEL Madison Square Garden for the If the Knicks want to avoid Associated Press first time since his 29 points led opening the postseason against 
advance to NIT finals 
NEW YORK 
In 1991, 1992 and 1993, the New York Knicks didn't repre­sent the Eastern Conference in the NBA Finals. The Chicago Bulls did -and went on to win the championship each year. 
The New York Knicks didn't have Michael Jordan. The Chicago Bulls did. 
Last year, neither team had Jordan, who was playing minor league baseball for the Birmingham Barons. The Knicks finally overcame the Bulls in an emotional seven­game series and reached the Finals. 
"That was their window of opportunity." Chicago coach Phil Jackson said Monday. 
The window might have slammed shut. Jordan is back. And if the season ended now, his Bulls would face the Knicks in the opening round of the playoffs. 
"Bring him on," was the ini­tial reaction of Knicks presi­dent Dave Checketts when Jordan's un-retirement became official last week. 
Checketts & Co. get their first chance to check out Jordan, Part II, on Tuesday night when the Bulls visit the Knicks. 
Jordan, who lit up Atlanta on Saturday in the best of his four games back, will be playing at the Bulls to victory in the piv­otal fifth game of the 1993 con­ference finals. 
"It's a measuring stick. New York is a contender. We have to see how well we stack up," he said. "It's a tough situation. We have to prepare ourselves for a good battle, physically as well as emotionally. The Knick team has always rebounded the ball strongly and played solid defense." 
The last time the teams met, March 2 in New York before rumors of Jordan's return had surfaced, the Bulls blew a big lead and lost. 
Jordan's presence Tuesday will "bring a renewed effort" from the Knicks, Jackson said. "I think they were rather bored with us the last time; that's one of the reasons we got a lead. This will bring them to a full alert immediately." 
Jackson said the Knicks' trip to Chicago on April 16 -one week before the regular season ends -will be a more accurate measuring stick. 
"That's going to be a drawn­out battle in which we're going to wage a little bit of playoff spirit," he said. "We're going to be at full strength, Michael Jordan will be conditioned, our team will be adapted to his style of play and our chemistry will be back." 
Jordan, they might actually be better ofT losing Tuesday. 
Chicago, with the sixth-best record in the East, is only 2 1/2 games behind fifth-place Cleveland. If the Bulls pass Cleveland, they'd face the No. 4 seed, probably Charlotte or Indiana, and the Knicks would get the Cavaliers. 
Before Jordan's return be­came official, Knicks coach Pat Riley said: "It would change the thinking of who and who cannot win." 
But Knicks general manager Ernie Grunfeld pointed out that Jordan's supporting cast isn't as strong as it was during the Bulls' championship run. 
"What you have to remember is they're a different team," he said. "There's no Grant, there's no Cartwright, there's no Paxson." 
The Knicks have changed lit­tle. They're still formidable and physical, with Patrick Ewing, Charles Oakley and Anthony Mason. And they're still em­battled, with Mason having just returned from a five-game sus­pension for showing up Riley. 
"They've battled with them­selves mentally, which is part of trying to be a champion," said Jordan, a master of mind games. "But I think they still have the fundamentals to win." 
By JIM O'CONNELL 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
Damon Watlington's shooting was about as good as it gets and Michael Meeks' couldn't have been much worse. 
That's why Watlington and his 8-for-10 from the field are in the NIT championship game. 
The junior guard finished with 20 points and Virginia Tech beat Canisius 71-59 Monday night to advance to its second NIT title game. 
"I tried to act it was just an­other ballgame even though it was a big game," Watlington said. "The first jumper made the butterflies go away." 
The Hokies (24-10) will play for the title Wednesday night against the winner of the other semifinal between Penn State and Marquette. They beat Notre Dame for the title in 1973. 
Watlington hit all five of his shots in the first half, including four from 3-point range, and the Hokies took advantage of bad shooting by the Golden Griffins (21-13) to lead 38-25. 
Canisius missed eight of its first nine shots and fell behind 17-3. 
"The one thing I said coming in was that we needed a good start to keep it close early," Canisius coach John Beilein said. "Take that early run away and we were right there." 
Virginia Tech extended the lead to 54-36 with 11:03 to play on a 9-0 run with Ace Custis scoring the last seven points. 
But led by senior guard Craig Wise, who finished with a ca­reer-high 32 points, Canisius drew to 65-59 with 2:03 left on a 3-pointer by Chris Young. That was it for the Golden Griffins, who missed four 3­pointers on one possession. They finished 5-for-25 from 3­point range. 

"We were concerned about their transition game but we stopped them most of the time," Virginia Tech coach Bill Foster said. "We did a good job of mixing defenses on them and Damon was on fire in the first half." 
Custis had 18 points for Virginia Tech, while Shawn Good had 15, including seven of the Hokies' last 11, and Shawn Smith had 10 points and 14 rebounds. 
Meeks, Canisius' starting cen­ter who came in with a team­leading 16.6 scoring average, finished with three points on 1­for-15 shooting. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Found over 40 ladies undergar­ Looking for part-time athletic  WANT '86-'88 2-DR. BLAZER,  Need grad tix. PLEASE  Hey Seniors-does anyone remem­ 
NOTICES $$ FOR TEXTBOOKS$$  ments in room 864 of the Cancun Palace. To claim your undergar­ment, contact Matt or Mike at 1­407-2n-2124  instructors for the National Youth Sports Program at Notre Dame. This program targets economically disadvantaged 10 to 16-year-old  JIMMY. OR CHEROKEE. CALL ED@ 291-1011 OR 287-0616  Max@ x1173 I PERSONAL  ber a man in a blue leisure suit doing headspins at Bridget's fresh. year or am I crazy?  
Are you going to read those things  children by providing them with  
again? I think not. 2323-2342 Pandora's Bks ND Ave & Howard  Found-3-way channel switcher @ Architecture Bldg on Sat.3/25  sports instruction, drug and alcohol prevention, career information, and  .____F_O_R_RE__N_T___.I  000 The Copy Shop 000  JUNIOR WEEK EVENTS  
Call Pete@ 233-5130  nutritional lunches. This is an  NEED Fm to share 4bdrm home  LaFortune Student Center  WED 3/29: NHL HOCKEY TRIP  
ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAK­ opportunity for students who will be  next sc yr WALK TO CLASS 289­ WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE,  BLACKHAWKS VS BLUES  
FAST, 35 MIN TO N.D. SPECIAL "OBSERVER" RATE $50/$60,  WANTED  attending summer school to supple­ment their income while giving to  9420  & WEEKENDS FOR YOUR CONVENIENCE!!!  BUS LEAVES C.C.E AT 5PM $20 TICKETS ON SALE AT  
FULL BREAKFAST. THE HOME­ the community. Applicants must  Phone 631-COPY  LAFORTUNE INFO DESK  
SPUN COUNTRY INN, NAPPA­ COUNSELORS: CAMP EMER­ possess the ability to instruct one or  HOMES FOR RENT  
NEE, 219-n3-2034.  SON, coed Mass. Swimming, ten­ more of the following sports: tennis.  NEAR CAMPUS 232-2595  ABC'S & LULLABIES -Hugs, kiss­ THURS 3/30: BOWLING NIGHT  
nis, baseball, basketball, soccer,  volleyball. swimmming, track, bas­ es and endless love await a white  AT BEACON BOWL 9:30PM  
LETHAL WEAPON 1  sailing, windsurfing, waterskiing,  ketball, soccer, and softball. They  2 BDRM AVAIL. NOW $295 MO. 3  newborn. Loving couple financially  
Thurs. 8/10:30  arts/crafts, theatre, woodworking,  must also enjoy working with chil­ BDRM. NEXT FALL, NEAR CAM­ secure will provide a happy family  FRI3/31: JUNIOR CLASS BASH  
Montgomery Theatre  rocketry, archery, judo, yearbook,  dren and be service-oriented. The  PUS.272-6306  life, finest education and a beautiful  AT UNION STATION 9PM-1AM  
photography, video, radio, comput­ dates of the NYSP 1995 camp are  home filled with warmth and securi­ 
P'tJ L P F I C T I 0 N  er, MORE! Super kids, great food,  July 3 through August 5. There is  ty. Med/legal expenses paid. Call  
FRI. & SAT. 8/10:30  friendly, fun! NO general coun­ one week of mandatory training  LIVE IN A GOOD NEIGHBOR­ Debbie & Vic at 1-800-842-6648.  
CUSHING AUDITORIUM  selors. 800-STAFF95  from June 26 through 30. The hours  HOOD FURNISHED HOMES  Hey, Fish Heads-here are some  
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@  ENVIRONMENTAL JOBS FOR  are 1:30-4:30 p.m. Monday through Friday. Please call 289-4540 or  NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR IDEAL FOR 3·8  For sale:  cheesy Padre quotes from Doris "Bite me, I like parrots", the  
Bring a partner and come to the  THE SUMMER. Earn $2500-$3500  631-6614 for an interview.  STUDENTS 2n3097  1 golden domed building  Puzzleheads, and Sister Jodie:  
BALLROOM DANCING  & Free the Planet Campaign to  $27 million, or best offer  GREEN BEER=GREEN POOPY  
WORKSHOP  save endangered species, promote  CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­ RENT FROM US for SUMMERI  call #6755 Ask for Monk.  SCOOPS  
This Wed., 3129 from 7-10 p.m. in  recycling and stop polluters. Work  Earn up to $2,000+/month working  BIG 2br apt w/ wash/dry CLOSE to  F-the Go-Carts!  
the LaFun Ballroom. Brought to  with major environmental gruops  on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­ NDI call273-0182 Brenda, Sarah,  Que Pasal Mucha!  
you by SUB and the ND/SMC  like the PIRGS, Sierra club & Green  panies. World travel (Hawaii,  Julie  THE SECOND CITY RETURNS!! I  KC did the crowd pleaser!  
Ballroom Dance Club. Also, we  Corps. Positions in 33 states & D.C.  Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.).  Washington Hall  AHLAK YOU AHLOT!  
have ....FREE FOOD•••••. @@@@@@@@@@@@@@@  Campus Interviews: March 30 & 31 Call Jamie: 1-800-75-EARTH  Seasonal and full-time employment available. No experience neces­ FOR SALE  Wed., April12 Tickets are $3 ... on sale now at  Let's talk about X and Blow tubes Free Warrant tickets-woo  
ILOST & FOUND I  Project Software Engineer  sary. For more information cal 1­206-634-0468 ext. C55844  OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered at $85,900. First floor location.  Lafortune Info Desk Get them now; it WILL SELL OUTI  NOND! NOND! Do you need any help with the menu? "No, we'll just have wine"  
Leading software developer in  DIRECT CONTACT STAFF  Finished basement with full lavato­ Well, DRINK UP JOHNNY, this is  
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIFOUNDIII!III!!I!IIIIIIIIII!I  Columbus, Ohio seeks software  responsible to provide individual  ry. Two bedrooms and two baths on  alii can afford you silly rabbits ....  
Calculator in computer cluster.  engineer with BSCE degree or  training to developmentally disabled  grqund level. Lease back to owner  COAPTop 15  Love, Angel, April, Kathy, and the  
Probably lost early in semester.  higher. Engineer to develop in  children and adults. High school  through May, 1995. Call  1 smoke break  rest of the Clubhouse Gang  
Call x0827 to identify type and  Windows/Windows NT environment  diploma or G.E.D. required.  (616)946-0700.  2 what an exceptional a- 
location and to claim.  using knowledge of Visual Design  Training provided. Day, evening &  3 yada yada yada the thing the  
Tools and Visual  weekend shifts. Hourly wage and  '90 red ford escort. new  thing the thing  
C++. Experience with ClienVServer  benefits. Contact Tanya, 289-0385  tires, good condition,  4 women are confusing, men are  JUNIORS  
••  >>>>>>>>>LOST<<<<<<<<<<< Red paisley J.G. Hook umbrella  architecture, distributed database applications and project manage­ at LOGAN. E.O.E. M/F  $4,000 634-4098  stupid 5 we spread' em like no other  NHL HOCKEY TRIP TO CHICAGO BLACKHAWKS VS BLUES  
last semester from first floor  ment a plus. Full time position with  Typist needed. 30 pgs. Big $$$.  NEAR CAMPUS 2 BDRM  6 if i were a guy, i'd be infertile right  WED 3/29. BUS LEAVES C.C.E AT  
Cavanaugh. It's very important to  benefits. Please mail resume with  x 4574 Susan  HOME. 2 LOTS. BASEMENT.  now  5PM. $20 TICKETS ON SALE AT  
me, SO PLEASE RETURN IT!  salary requirement to ScanDala  GARAGE. $29,900. GILLIS REAL­ 7 i get around  LAFORTUNE INFO DESK.  
Call x1374. I'll come pick it up if  Systems Mail Stop 4400 4420  ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOY­ TY 272-6306  8 NREER  
n~cessary, no questions asked.  Tuller Road Dublin, Ohio 43017  MENT! EARN THOUSANDS THIS  9 it aint hot water. but it sure tastes  
SUMMER IN CANNERIES,  good  LOSE WEIGHT FOR SUMMERI  
FOUND  NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ PROCESSORS, ETC.  90 Toyota Corolla SR5 50KMi  1 0 dig a ditch right chere  After 3 kids, I lost 23 lbs., went from  
WOMAN'S RING IN DBRT, SEC­ Seasonal & lull-time employment  MALE/FEMALE.  5-spd $6450 234-4113  11 if ann can hold it, so can you  size 9 to a 3 in 8 weeks, w/o  
OND FLOOR. CALL 2954  available at National Parks, Forests  ROOM/BOARD/TRAVEL OFTEN  12 !heres no sausage on that pizza  diets/drugs/exercise. All-natural  
& Wildlife Preserves. Benefits &  PROVIDED! GUIDE. GUARAN­ For Sale-Duplexes 10 min. from  13 michelle, see if you can get in for  products, easy, guaranteed! Kelly  
POSTED: $250.00 Reward  bonuses! Call: 1-206-545-4804 ext  TEED SUCCESS! (919)929-4398  Notre Dame. 2 bedroom & 3 avail­ a dollar  1-800-209-2150  
For the retrieval or info leading to  N55842  ext A1082  able. Priced to sell.  14 or maybe that's orion  
the retrieval of my stolen mountain  272-8555 am 272-9716 pm  15 patrick, !hats the biggest a-ll­ IF YOU SMOKE CAMEL CIGA­ 
bike. Brand: Cadex Alm-1,  WANTED: former wrestlers to help  AA CRUISE SHIPS HIRING! EARN  move you've made all week  RETTES, CALL X2954  
18", Front suspension Color: metalic silver and wine­ coach a kid's freestyle wrestling program. Ages 5 & up. 2  BIG$$$+ FREE WORLD TRAVEL (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII,  TICKETS  I need 4 tickets lor graduation.  
berry red. -Do the right thing,  nights/week, 6-8 pm. Call Tom  ETC.) SUMMER/PERMANENT, NO  Sorry it's not in red, Sweetie.  Can anyone help?  
Please !!! No questions asked.  Dolly at 255-0137.  EXPER. NEC. GUIDE. (919)929­ 2 tix BJoei/EJohn INpolis 3/31  Not unlove.  CALL GREGG 273-2871  
Call Brian 234-4322  4398 ext. C1082.  $150 080 271-8860  Wow! Angel  

Tuesday, March 28, 1995 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 
Conversation on the Catholic Character 


ofNotre Dame 

Prof. David J. O'Brien 
Ex Corde Ecclesiae Americana: The American Context ofCatholic Higher Education 
Respondent: Professor Gerard Bradley, Law School 
David J. O'Brien is Professor of History and Loyola Professor of Roman Catholic Studies at the College of Holy Cross, Worcester, Massachusetts. A distinguished historian, he is the author of a number of books including, most recently, From the Heart of the American Church: Catholic Higher Education and American Culture (Orbis Books, 1994). 
7:30p.m. Wednesday, March 29th 
Hesburgh Center for International Studies Auditorium 
Discussion period to follow. 



page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, March 28, 1995 
•NHL •Nn 
Overtime win over Montreal Pieper and Hutchins 
halts Lightning losing streak 
Associated Press 
Lightning 3, Canadiens 2 
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. 
Petr Klima scored on a break­away 2:23 into overtime Monday night, giving the Tampa Bay Lightning a 3-2 vic­
tory  over  the  Montreal  
Canadiens.  
The  Canadiens  lost  their  

eighth straight road game. They fell to 2-13-2 away from the Forum this season. 
Tampa Bay ended its five­game home losing streak. The Lightning is 4-0-1 at home against Montreal in its three seasons. 
Klima took a pass from Brian Bradley and skated in on Patrick Roy, faking to his back­hand and sliding the puck in­side the right post. Mark Recchi scored his ninth and 10th goals of the season for Montreal. 
Lightning defenseman Roman Hamrlik opened the scoring with a power-play goal 7:08 into the game. It was his ninth goal, tying him with Boston's Raymond Bourque and Pittsburgh's Larry Murphy as the top goal-scoring de­fensemen. 
Bradley made it 2-0 lead at 
17:23 of the first period, pick­ing up a rebound and circling into the slot before beating Roy low to his stick side. 
Blues 3, Stars 2 

DALLAS 
Brendan Shanahan's rebound goal with 6:10 to play gave the St. Louis Blues a 3-2 victory over Dallas on Monday night, the Stars' first home loss in more than a month. 
Stars goaltender Andy Moog stopped Vitali Karamnov's orig­inal shot but Shanahan was in position to score his 11th goal of the season into an open net. 
Dallas was 5-0-2 in its last seven starts at Reunion Arena and hadn't lost there since a 2­1 defeat to the Chicago Blackhawks on Feb. 26. 
The Blues, 2-4-1 in their pre­vious seven games, increased the pressure at the start of the third period and got the tying goal on Brett Hull's 20th of the season. Hull gathered a loose puck in the slot and fired a 15­footer into the upper left corner at 2:23 to make it 1-1. 
Defenseman Bill Houlder gave the Blues a 2-1 lead at 7:39 of the third period, scoring his fifth goal of the season on a wrist shot from the left circle. 
But the Stars answered at 9:19, when Dean Evason de­flected Kevin Hatcher's slap shot past Jon Casey for his sev­enth goal. 
Moog, 35, starting his third straight game since backup Darcy Wakaluk was lost for a month due to a broken hand, was especially sharp in the sec­ond period. 
Maple Leafs 4, Oilers 3 
TORONTO 
Bill Berg scored 21 seconds into the third period and the Toronto Maple Leafs beat the Edmonton Oilers 4-3 Monday night. 
Dave Andreychuk, Mike Ridley and Randy Wood also scored for Toronto, which had lost three in a row to the Oilers since last beating them Feb. 19, 1994. 
Igor Kravchuk, Shayne Corson and Scott Thornton scored for the Oilers, who went 0-3-1 on their road trip. 
The top scorer on each team was absent. Mats Sundin of the Maple Leafs missed the game with a bruised shoulder and Jason Arnott of the Oilers was out while recovering from a concussion. 
Andreychuk scored the only goal of the first period, his 14th of the season at 17:46. 

send Eagles to finals 
ByJIM O'CONNELL Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Anthony Pieper scored a ca­reer-high 31 points and fresh­man Aaron Hutchins continued his late-season heroics with 21 Monday night, sending Marquette to the championship game of the NIT with an 87-79 victory over Penn State. 
The Golden Eagles (21-11) will play Virginia Tech, a 71-59 winner over Canisius, in Wednesday night's title game. It will be their third champi­onship game, their only title coming in 1970. Virginia Tech beat Marquette 57-54 in January at Milwaukee. 
Marquette struggled through a rough first half, going 10 1/2 minutes with just one field goal in 14 attempts, and the Nittany Lions (20-11) led 36-20 with 
2:59 left in the half. 
The Golden Eagles scored the last eight points of the half, a run started with Hutchins' first two points of the game, and opened the second half with a 20-4 run with Pieper, a sopho­more guard, and Hutchins scoring all the points. 
Eight of Marquette's first 11 field goals in the second half were 3-pointers and the Golden Eagles matched their season­high with 15 3-pointers. 
The last of them was by Chris Crawford and his first points of the game gave the Golden Eagles a 73-59 lead with 2:59 to play. 
The Nittany Lions, who strug­gled from the free throw line making 10 of their first 2 3. finally started making foul shots and went 8-for-1 0 in the final two minutes to close with­in 82-79 with 33 seconds left on two free throws by Danny Earl. But Pieper, Crawford and Faisal Abraham combined to make 5 of 6 clutch free throws to clinch the win. 
Hutchins has scored 84 of his season total of 165 points in the last five games and he is averaging 17.5 points per game in the NIT. 
Rony Eford added 15 points for Marquette. Earl led Penn State with 26 points, while John Amaechi added 16. 

PLACE 
433 Decio 114 O'Shaughnessy 
Cone. 115 O'Shaughnessy 120 0'Shaughnessy 
115 0'Shaughnessy 120 O'Shaughnessy 114 O'Shaughnessy 
115 O'Shaughnessy 120 O'Shaughnessy 127 0'Shaughnessy 
115 O'Shaughnessy 120 O'Shaughnessy 
115 O'Shaughnessy 120 O'Shaughnessy 
115 O'Shaughnessy 120 O'Shaughnessy 
' ' 
115 0 Shaughnessy 120 O'Shaughnessy Tuesday, March 28, 1995 

1994·95 MAIN STAGE SEASON NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE PRESENTSOUR COUNTRY'S BY TiMBERLAKE WERTENBAKERGOOD DIRECTED BY REGINALD BAIN WEDNESDAY, APRIL 5 ..... 8 P.M. THURSDAY, APRIL 6 8 P.M. FRIDAY, APRIL 7 .. 8 PM. SATURDAY, APRIL 8 . . 8 P M. SUNDAY, APRIL 9 .. 2:30PM. RESERVED SEATS $7 STUDENT AND SENIOR CmZEN DISCOUNTS ARE AVAILABLE WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY AND SUNDAY liCKETS ARE AVAILABLE AT THE DOOR OR IN ADVANCE AT THE LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER TiCKET OFFICE MASTERCARD AND VISA ORDERS CALL 631·8128 W A S H N G T 0 N H A L L VIEWERS MAY FINO SOME OF THE LANGUAGE IN THIS FLAY OFFENSIVE  
Jimmy Carter Work Projects Los Angeles, California June 17-25, 1995 ND will sponsor I of 30 homes to be built during this "Habitat for Humanity" week. We are looking for 6 students to join 14 alumni in this special project (transportatiou not included). Applications available in the in the Alumni Office 201 Main Building All Applications due April 3  

The Observer • SPORTS 
• I 
I I·· 
I 
page 15 

•NBA • BOXING 
Mr. Robinson gets 40 in Don King takes it on the chin Pistons' neighborhood 
By ED SCHUYLER JR. rift between King and Tyson. I relationship with Tyson. Associated Press was told that Tyson wanted pri­"The public wants to know 
Associated Press 
Spurs 114, Pistons 93 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. 

David Robinson had 40 points and 12 rebounds Monday night to lead San Antonio past the Detroit Pistons 114-93 for the Spurs' eighth straight victory. 
It was the most points scored by a player against the Pistons this season, topping the games of 37 by Shaquille O'Neal on Jan. 11 and Hobinson on Feb. 24. 
Sean Elliott added 29 points for the Spurs, two mor~ than his high game last season with Detroit. Allan Houston scored 24 points for the Pistons, who lost for the eighth time in 10 games. 
San Antonio, up 61-45 at the half, moved in front by 21 be­fore Detroit rallied. Trailing 80­63, the Pistons went on a 11-0 run, capped by Lindsey Hunter's 3-pointer with 1:32 left in the quarter. 
But the comeback was short­lived, with Hobinson scoring six points in San Antonio's eight­point run to finish the period. That made it 88-74, and Robinson ended any doubt about the outcome by scoring the first four points of the fourth to put the Spurs up by 18. 
The game lost much of its sus­pense in the opening seven minutes, with the Spurs racing to a 23-8 lead. Robinson had 10 points in the quick start, including a pair of dunks to make it 14-6. 
Pacers 98, Nets 87 
INDIANAPOLIS 

Reggie Miller scored 25 points and Rik Smits added 24 points and 12 rebounds Monday night as the Indiana Pacers won their sixth straight home game, beat­ing the New Jersey Nets 98-87. 
The Pacers, who led by as many as 21 in the first half, won their fourth in a row over­all despite making only five field goals in the third quarter. 
Derrick Coleman led the Nets, who have lost five of their last six games, with 27 points and nine rebounds. New Jersey has been held under 100 points in six consecutive games. 
Coleman scored 11 in the fourth period as the Nets pulled within six, 93-87 on a 3-pointer by Kenny Anderson with 1:58 remaining. 
Mark Jackson, who tied a sea­son-high with 22 points, hit a jumper at the 1:38 mark and Dale Davis followed with his only point of the game, con­necting on a free throw, as Indiana secured the victory. 
The Pacers, who hit 10 of 15 first-quarter shots, used a 12-0 run to build a 53-36 advantage at the break. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following positions: 
Viewpoint Copy Editors Assistant Viewpoint Editors 
Please submit a one-page statement of intent and experience to Michael O'Hara in 314 LaFortune by 3 p.m. on Friday, March 31. Any questions call631-4541. 
TAKING THE June LSAT? 
Come Take A FREE Practice Test And Attend An Informational Seminar 
Saturday. April 8th at 9;00am 
• Take a full length, proctored LSAT eum. 
ThesdaY. April 11th at 7;00pm 
• 
Receive a detailed score report that pinpoints our test-taking strengths and weaknesses. 

• 
Learn about the format and content of the LSAT, how it's ~ in the admissions pr~ss and valuable test·taking technique. that can help raise your LSAT scores. .;:;:(~]::::)\ :%: ) ' · 


PRINCETON REVIEW _ 
THE ~ _ 
(800) 2-REVIEW 
The Princeton Review is not affiliated with Princeton University or ETS. 

NEW YORK Mike Tyson is out of prison. Is Don King out of the picture? 
Various published accounts on Monday suggested that pro­moter King has lost his hold on the former heavyweight cham­pion, released on Saturday from an Indiana prison, where he served time for a rape con­viction. 
"Today, I don't think Don King is out, but we'll know in a couple of months," promoter Dan Duva said from his office in Totowa, N.J. 
"I think King is out," pro­moter Bob Arum said from his office in Las Vegas. "I don't care that much, except it facili­tates a Tyson-Foreman fight." 
The 46-year-old Foreman, promoted by Arum, more likely would fight Tyson if King, Arum's archrival, is not in­volved. 
Phone calls to King's office in Florida and his Ohio home, lo­cated near Tyson's residence in Southington, were not re­turned. 
There were reports that Tyson sent King away after the former champion returned to his home on Saturday. 
Promoter Butch Lewis was quoted in Monday's New York Daily News as saying "I was told that there's some sort of vacy and asked everybody to leave, including Don." 
On Monday, Lewis told The Associated Press that "all the rumors being circulated are second and third hand. I'm not surprised, nor should anyone else be, after being incarcer­ated for three years that the kid would want privacy. People are reading too much into it. I don't take it as a sign that Don is on his way out." 
The New York Post reported Tyson was angry when he found a Showtime crew in his home, taping footage for a doc­umentary to be aired in April. 
The newspaper reported it had been told King had made a $20 million deal on Showtime, with whom King has worked for some time, for a combina­tion of the documentary and rights to telecast Tyson's first comeback bout. 
Several phone calls were made to the cable TV network, but Showtime would not com­ment. 
"I don't think the public cares who promotes Mike Tyson be­cause I think they'll buy tickets to see Mike Tyson fight, not be­cause Don King is the pro­moter," Duva said. 
Arum, however, contends the public is interested in whether King resumes his promotional initially that King is out," Arum said. "King has painted himself as the devil. People interested in Tyson are rooting for him to succeed in his life and they know the worst thing for Tyson as a person is King." 
Arum admitted that if King is the promoter, "I think people will go to see Mike fight, but the whole aura changes." 
There were reports Tyson was upset because King had arranged for a welcome-home spread that included cham­pagne and shellfish. Alcohol, shellfish and pork are forbid­den by Islamic law. 
Reports that Tyson had mar­ried his 28-year-old girlfriend Monica Turner, a Georgetown University medical student, in a Muslim ceremony in prison were denied on Monday by Phil Slavens, assistant superinten­dent at the Indiana Youth Center. 
'It did not happen, at least there was no official ceremony that I was aware of," Slavens said. Tyson would need a li­cense to be married legally. 
It also was rumored that Tyson was thinking about changing his name to Malik Abdul Aziz. 
"He ain't changing his name" said Muhammed Siddeeq, Tyson's instructor in Islam. 
O'Brien thinks the fifteenth rated Irish are better than their 11-7 record, and feels the schedule is made in a way to strengthen the Irish for the end of the season. 
"We took our hits early, but we play our best tennis at the end of the season. I think we'll be extremely strong." 
Tennis 
continued from page 20 
Steve Brizendine, Pietrowski topped Bryan Harris, Flanigan defeated Jason Smith, and Ron Mencias was victorious over Scott Postlewaite. All six sin­gles matches were decided in straight sets. 
In winning the doubles point, Sprouse and Pun defeated Harris and Brizendine 8-5, Pietrowski and Flanigan con­tinued their solid play in a 8-3 victory over Maggart and Wewssenberg. O'Brien and Brian Harris beat Roger Follmer and Smith 8-6. 

Seniors: Looking for a Job? 
• Come to Career and Placement Services 
once a week. ·Pick up the new listing of currentjob vacancies-updated weekly. ·Don't miss out on new job vacancies. 


'I 

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, March 28, 1995 
• TRACK 

Irish track and field begins the season with impressive showings 
By MICHAEL DAY SportS Writer 

A sizzling start to a promising season. 
If this past weekend's per­formances at the Stanford, Purdue, and Wabash Invitationals are any indication, the Notre Dame track and field team will be enjoying more than their share of success over the next three months. 
Several Irish athletes regis­tered top notch performances over the weekend, and used the first outdoor meet of the year to offer Notre Dame fans a glimpse of what is in store for the squad this season. 
While the balance of the team competed in the Purdue and Wabash Invitationals, seven­teen men and women were selected by coach Joe Piane to compete in the Stanford Invitational. And as the results illustrate, they did not disap­point. 
"Everyone competed well, and you could really see some progress from the ones that went to Arizona over break," said assistant coach John Millar. "It's a plus to see that they're moving forward as fast as they are." 
Irish newcomers performed especially well in the first out­door meet of their collegiate ca­reers. Freshman Danny Payton placed second in the 400 meter dash by recording a time of 
47.60. Errol Williams also rep­resented the Class of 1998 well, notching a fourth place finish in the 110 meter hurdles with a time of 14.32. 
"I wasn't sure how I'd do at frrst in the outdoor conditions," said Payton. "But overall I was pretty pleased with my perfor­mance, and I know I can do better in the future." 
On the women's side, junior Erica Peterson put forth an­other stellar effort in the 400 meter hurdles, finishing in 1:00.82, good enough for fourth place in the meet. Sophomore Alison Howard placed fourth in the 400 meter dash with a time of 56.20, the second best mark of her career. 

Several Irish athletes also en­joyed successful afternoons at the Purdue Invitational. Junior Mike Smedley thrashed his competition in the 3000 meter steeplechase, winning the race by nearly 14 seconds with a time of 9:09.27. Sophomore Matt Althoff was almost as dominant, placing second in the 5000 meters with a mark of 14:44.34. 
Sophomore Pat Gorman recorded a solid time of 1:56.45 in the 800 meters to walk away with a second place finish, and freshman Mike Conway placed fifth in the 1500 meter run with a time of 4:03.94. 
In the field events, Brian Heedrick captured sixth place in the high jump with a mark of 6' 9 1/2, while junior Mike Fleisch recorded a fourth place finish in the shot put after a throw of 49' 11". 
"We are certainly ahead of where we were last year at this time," said Millar. "I have a feeling that they'll continue to improve during the course of the outdoor season." 
It was a storybook beginning for a season full of promise. 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 

Baseball 
continued from page 20 
against Kraus and he went on to get the win in relief." 
Injuries continue to plague the Irish. Catcher Bob Lisanti is out for the season with a back injury, and center fielder Rowan Richards' separated shoulder will likely keep him out of the lineup for at least two more weeks. In addition, second baseman Randall Brooks suffered a badly sprained right ankle against Miami and is expected to miss a week. 
"Rowan has been doing great, and his and the other injuries are a major setback for the team," Mainieri said. "In the meantime, other members of the team will need to step up." 
First baseman Craig DeSensi has been one of the players to step up. The senior captain is batting .304 over the last seven games and has driven in nine runs, three of those on a homer off Miami ace Jason Adge. 

Junior right fielder Ryan Topham continues to lead ev­eryday players with a .359 av­erage, but struggled against the 'Canes. Topham was zero­for-Miami, going hitless in eight at-bats. 
"I think the offensive prob­lems we had against Miami was due to the quality of their pitching," Mainieri says. "They had some great guys, and we just weren't up to the challenge." 
Mainieri sees a lot of promise for the coming season in the way Notre Dame fought back after losing its first two games. 
"Every team is going to have days when they don't do very well against quality competi­tion," the coach said. "I think we showed a lot of character in coming back Sunday, and that gives me a lot of confidence for our up-coming games." 

Rob Dibble suspended 
Associated Press 
SARASOTA. Fla. 
The Chicago White Sox sus­pended pitcher Rob Dibble one day after he was quoted saying replacement players would be stuck with the label for life "like child molesters." 
Dibble was suspended Sunday "for conduct unbecoming to a White Sox player." general manager Ron Schuele said, adding that Dibble "criticized our major league players." 
Dibble was quoted in Saturday's Chicago Tribune as saying replacement players were "going to be labeled like child molesters for the rest of their lives. You're never going to get rid of that label." 
Dibble also referred to re­placement baseball as a "beer league" and said Chicago's mi­nor-leaguers could beat the strikebreakers. 
Asked whether Dibble's talk played a role in his suspension, Schueler said, "It might've." 
Schueler said he would not reinstate Dibble until he talks to Dibble's agent, Dennis Gilbert. He would not say whether he thought the suspen­sion would hurt Dibble's chances of making the team after the strike ends. 
The White Sox signed the two­time National League All-Star to a minor league contract this year. 
This is Dibble's ninth suspen­sion. 

The Observer/ Eric Reuthling 
Junior Mike Smedley embarassed his competition, winning the 3000 meter steeplechase by 14 seconds at the Purdue Invitational. 
Free 



April8,·1995 
8:30 a.m. -12:30 p.m. Cushing Auditorium 
A FREE Princeton Review "Preview" Class will be held on 
Tuesday, April 11 7 to 9 p.m. 115 O'Shaughnessy 
,-!. 
Sign up in 101 O'Shaughnessy 
Do you want to get involved???? 
Gain experience that perspective Employers like to see! 
Sophomore Business Majors, The Student Business Board is now accepting applications for 1995-1996 
Assistant General Manager 
As the Assistant General Manager you will gain hands on experience helping to oversee the operation of ND Video, Irish Gardens, and Adworks. These student operated businesses allow motivated students the opportunity to put their education to work and earn some money. 
Applications are available in the Student Government Office, 2nd Floor LaFortune. 
Sophomore and Juniors, Any Major, SBB is also accepting applications for the 1995-96 
Irish Gardens Manager and Assistant Managers NO Video Manager 
Pick up applications during business hours at Irish Gardens or ND Video. 
Applications Due April 1Oth Any Questions call 631-8040. Applicants will be notified of interviews. 
'''  'It --­I I I 'I I I j I I'  t I I I I t I • 'I I I I (If I I  
Tuesday, March 28, I995  The Observer • SPORTS  page I7  

Fencing  • WOMEN'S TENNIS  
continued from page 20  Crabtree avenges loss in weekend split 
close bout 5-4.  

Finally, sophomore Jeremy Siek stands in the middle of the pack with a 4-3 record, while teammate Conor Power is at the bottom as he went 1­7. 
"It was a big hurdle to jump to get into the top 24," Power s'aid. ''I'm shooting for All­American honors." 
Power's lone victory was a highlight. The senior defeated Stanford's Geoff Donaker, one of the nation's top foilists. Power now must use the re­maining fifteen bouts to move into the top twelve in order to be an All-American. 
Things may appear bleak for the Irish. but they know from past experience that anything ean happen on the last day.-· 
"EvHryone has to come out and be really focused," Power added. "Everyone always says they need to do this, but they do not. I Iowever. in this tour­nament, you really have to." 
Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 
By BETSY BAKER Sporrs Writer 
The Notre Dame women's ten­nis team added one victory and one loss to its record on the road this weekend, with a 6-0 singles sweep of no. 18 Kentucky on Sunday and a 3-5 loss to no. 25 Tennessee the previous day. 
The Irish dropped two doubles matches to Tennessee, giving the Irish its eighth loss of the season. Wendy Crabtree, Laura Schwab, and Erin Gowen came up with the three victories for the Irish at numbers one, three, and six singles respectively. 
Crabtree's 6-3, 2-6, 6-2 victo­ry at number one singles was especially significant as she found revenge against Margie Lepsi for her defeat of Crabtree last fall. 
"Our singles players per­formed very well for us," said Irish head coach Jay Louderback. 
"Especially Wendy because she beat Tennessee's number one player who beat her last fall." 
The loss was disappointing for the Irish, but, when added to the combination of a victory Sunday, will do no permanent damage. 
"They are a good team," said Louderback. "Of course it was disappointing, but it won't hurt us." 
Louderback also commented that the team's performance was greatly affected by Tennessee's less than hos­pitable crowd. 
"They had a good crowd," said Louderback. "But they were also very vocal and we didn't react very well." 
On a more encouraging note, the sweep of Kentucky on Sunday now leaves the Irish with a 9-8 dual meet record on the season. Five of the six matches against the Wildcats were won in straight sets with two second set tie breakers. 
In addition to Crabtree, Schwab, and Gowen winning their second matches of the weekend, Holyn Lord and Molly Gavin also had singles victories for the Irish on Sunday. 
"We really needed to come out of this weekend with at least one victory, and we did that with the match against Kentucky," said Louderback. "It would have been nice to 
The Alumni-Senior Club is hiring 
BARTENDERS 
for the 95-96 season. 
Pick up applications at Student Activities, 315 LaFortune. Must be 21+by September, 1995. 
DEADLINE: March 31, 1995 
have won both matches, but we played very well against a good Kentucky team." 
Louderback also agrees that the sweep of the Wildcats adds much credit to the team's per­formance as a whole. 
"We've always had good, clean matches versus Kentucky, but also real close ones," said Louderback. "It was nice to sweep them 6-0." 
Looking ahead, the Irish will host Illinois this Thursday at 3 
p.m. Illinois has not had the season it hoped to. but is still a solid team that has a history of challenging the Irish. 
"For some reason, Illinois al­ways plays well against us," said Louderback. "They haven't done real well this sea­son, so they will be looking for a win. It should be a good match for us." 

Wendy Crabtree took her revenge against Tennessee's Margie Lepsi at number one singles. 
Ifyou see sports happening, call The Observer at 1-53 2 3. 
WHAT'S THE FUTURE OF THIS RELATIONSHIP? 

SUNDAY. APRIL 2. 1995 1:00 -5:00 PM 
A workshop for couples In " serious relationship who want to explore choices and decisions for the future Including the possibility of marriage 
TOPICS TO BE PRESENTED: ·Stages of relationship -Steps in making healthy decisions -Maintaining long-distance relationships 
THEBE IS NO COST FOB THE PROGRAM, BUT ... PRE-REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED ... BY THURSDAY, MARCH 30 
Applications are available at either Campus Ministry Office: Badin Hall or Library Concourse 
Questions? Call 631-5242 


r------------~-------~­
I I I' • I 1 \I I I I 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, March 28, 1995 
• SMC TENNIS 
Belles ready-to earn season's first win over Calvin 
Calvin. We have been practic­ing hard, and therefore I'm ex­pecting a win today," said sophomore Kate Kozacik. Kozacik is the #1 singles player, as well as #2 in the doubles de­partment. 
Although the Belles are ex­
By CAROLINE BLUM 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's tennis team travels to Calvin College today, hoping to improve their 0-1 record. The Belles fell to a strong DePauw University last Tuesday, but are confident in the challenge with Calvin. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
~Jif::::.· 

CLUB SPORTS&<· The 
Observer is interested in cov­ering club sports teams for the Spring. Captains or rep-
office or call the Sports own. The fee is $8 and the Department at 631-4543 class is open to all. Advance CHALLENGE-D AEROBICS -registration in the He -­All classes will be halt price .. v()ffice. ·· for the remainder of the +'J?artidp , re as year. Spots are stiUopen. ihe chanee-•to buy equipment DROP-IN VOLLEYBALL~ at discounted prices. RecSports is offering drop-in C 4-0N.4. VOLLE volleyball on Tuelid&yli April 11.18~ and 25. CQ-me by yourself or bring a friend. The sessions are from 8-11 ·pro in the JACC. No teams or #ilt;team. mus 
:t~;;~ed sign-u ~ir nec·s;~;i:i'm~t~3l . .· ... ·­
WEEKEND RACQUETBALL the front desk at Arigelli bf TOURNAMENT-This tourna-March 31st. · -WV\ ment will be on Friday. 4CHRIST March 31_ and Satur!lay, >.;n.BENEF­April 1. There WilLbe meii;s <;with a-
and women's divisions with on April l~>t to: bepefit t-shlrts awarded to all partie-Christmas in April. The''WiU ipants. Bring your own rae· be six divisions in each run quet, butballs will~~provid-} tj.itd trop!f!e$ to · ,lop ed. Refreshments will be ·i-:,':,finishers. tf:O:shirts lbe served. Register in advance ,,, given to aU registrantS. ·The with the RecSports office by cost is $5 in advance and $6 Thursday, March 30 and the day of. All participants there is a $6 fee. For more must sign th{l nece~sa~y info call1-6100. forms which can be obtained CASTING AND ANGLING at RecSports or at the events. EVENT-Course includes four For more info call RecSports 
,---------------------, 
L 
We Want 

You... l1 
To Teach 
I Aerobics! I I 
Earn Extra$$$ While Staying In Shape Here Is How: 
**Pick up an Aerobic Instructor Application from the 

, RecSports office. Return the completed form Sunday, April2. **Attend an Aerobics Workshop on Sunday, April 2, 12:00-2:00, Rockne 301. This workshop will provide basic information on instruction as well as polish other teaching skills. We will also be teaching a routine which each individual must perform at the instructor auditions April21. Please bring a blank cassette tape. **Set up an interview with Jennie Phillips, Fitness Coordinator at 631-5965. _j 
...a 
VARSITY SHOP 
..... 

"It was difficult to open our season against DePauw, be­cause they are such a powerful team. We have a lot of talent, but we also have a lot of younger, inexperienced players. 
Right now, the key is just a matter of putting everything to­gether, a matter of recognizing our potential and using it in our matches," said #1 doubles se­nior Robin Hrycko. 
The team beat Calvin last year, and is confident in the match today. 
"Even though we lost 8-1 to DePauw last week, we had some very close matches. I think it was a beneficial match that will help us out against 

ROWING CLUB,..AJI membe-rs must attend a mandatory meet­lng t(might in 124 _Hayes-He&ly,, 
;l):),i \'Ve Will be h()h\ing 

P.s''1'fot nextyear's of'fh:·· cers,. Bring your checkbooks if you ordered a sweatshirt. 
Major Payne (PG13) 4:30. 6:45, 9:15 Bye Bye Love (PG13) 5:00. 7:30. 9:45 Man of Ute House (PG) 4:45.7:15, 9:30 Tall Tale (PG13) 4:15.6:45,9:00 Outbreak (R) 4:00. 7:00. 10:00 Candyman II (R) 5:15. 7:45, 10:00 
legends of Ute Fall (R) 4:00. 7:00, 9:45 Hoop Dreams (PG13) 4:30. 8:00 Red (R) 4:45, 7:15, 9:30 

Rhodes and Marshall Scholarships Professor Walter F. Pratt, Jr. will have a meeting to inform you of deadline dates and the Fall application process on Tuesday, March 28, 1995 6:30p.m. 101 Law School If you are unable to attend this meeting, a sheet of information may be obtained in 102-B O'Shaughnessy Hall after the meeting date. 
The Official otre Dame Baseball Cap. 

be invited to the Midwest Invitational, and the teams are invited according to their num­ber of wins. Therefore, every match matters," said Kozacik. 
On a scale of one to ten of powerful competition, Calvin College would earn a five plac­ing them in the average cate­gory. The team is energized and ready to compete today at Calvin. The match is scheduled for 2:00. 
BASEBALL 
BASEBALL 
BASEBALL 
BASEBALL 
BASEBALL 
TOMORROW! 

March 29 • 4 P.M. 
----------------------.--­
1 I I I I I I I I I! 1 I j 1 I/ 1 I/ I I I I< I ''I I I I I' • 1 o I 1 I 1 I If 1 / 1 1 tIt I/, 
Tuesday, March 28, 1995 
The Observer • TODAY page 19 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
MIKE PETERS CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 


CALVIN AND HOBBES 
11-\\'S lMEI(Gt:NC'I 1'>'\EUING OF 1\-\E GEl RID OV SLIMY GIRLS Cl\Jg WILL COME TO OR\l't;_R, DICTAlOR· j:()R litE 
CAL\11~ PR£.5\Il\NG! 
DILBERT 
AS lc'lt.'RE. f\l\.. AWARE, 11-\E E}\t.M'{ 1-\!>.S 11'~\l\Rf>-\EI) 0\JI( lt.RRIIClR~ At-ill \", S\'R't=.A\)1\'\G DI'S\t-IFORMAI\0~ ICl 1\-\E. EHt.CT 1\iA I 1-\0ME.WORK Cl\XJ\{110 BE DO~t. RIG\-\\ AFIE.R 'SC..\-\001..! 
BILL WATTERSON 
A'S M'< MOM \JI~'{ \1fl.-IJI: 

GIRl.. S'<M?A\\-1\I:S, WI:. \-1\\lS\ 
ERt>..I)ICA'TI: 1\.\t:. 1-\0'SIIlt. 

l='OR.CEC, . M~'{ C\ltsi\O~'S !' 100 RISK'I.
1 
11-\E \30)( OF "'........_Q S£CR't.C'{ M\JST REMf>.\\{ St:.OJRE! 
-
SCOTT ADAMS 

r----------------------,2r-::========~--------,~r----------------~ 
IN THIS COUNTRY 8 STAND UP . 
WE HAVE A CUSTOM ~ TH.t>..T'S IT 
WHEN f"\EN A.SK ~ NOW THI 5 
CROSSWORD 

At.;HUSS 29 rod 55 High points (biblical item) 
59 Shakespearean
1 Keep-­
31 Airborne showplace(persevere) particulates 61 Cousteau
s Sitcom diner 34 Where Lois and 
concern9 Most of Iberia Clark work 64 Pivot14 Dial sound 65 Follow38 Hook'stsln (mired) henchman 66 Slick vehicle? 
16 Fake jewels 40 River, in 67 Seasons on the17 Goldwyn Somme9-Acrossdiscovery 68 Gen. Rob!. -­
41 "American Gigolo" actor 69Annual
Anna-­
18 Houston tournaments
42 Athlete's ambitionuniversity 70 Tweed Ring 19 Get the lead out lampooner47 Pitch20 Geology, e.g. 

71 Monster's loch 23 Gibson of tennis 
48 Post-W.W II Prime Minister 

24 Three, in DOWN Thuringen 49 Golfer 
1 On the briny 
Woosnam comment 51 --Perce 
25 Sheepcote 2 Utter 
Indians 3 Like argon Mag lie 52 Imitated 4 Nine---of the law 5 Sicilian port ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
28 Baseball's 
&Idle of "Monty Python" 7 Clear 

a Guide 9 Regular 
programming
pre-emptor 10 Peel 11 Naked-­
jaybird 12 1986 hit"-­Only Love" 
13 Born
,;,;,t::+:--E-1 21 Kind of waiter or water =+::=+=:+.-:-i 22 Tide type -:-+::=+-=+:-! 25 Noted Seine landscapist 
z I'\JE NE\JER SEEN ~ AN'YBODY G£.T THAT'S ~ KICKED INTO 
GOTTA 


43 From whom 56 Out-of-date 
buyers buy 57 Hears, as a 44 Cult film "-­
case Man" 
58 Graf rival 

45 Superlatively 59 Secluded valley wealthy 60 Calendar abbr. 
46 The brave do it 50 Tidy up 
61 Court 53 Buddy of TV 62 Start of a cheer 54 Actress Burke 
63 Pub brew 

Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
26Endof­27 Late bloomer 30 Old barroom 
tune 31 City on the Nile 32 Slew 33 Airport booth 
leaser 35 Anger 36 Permit: Abbr. 37"--hoo!" 39 Pipe 
connection 

"I never heard of someone having salmon as pets." 
<"H4'"'"""' Orientation for Juniors will be p.jti. to 7:30 p.m. in the Hayes-Healy rlU'uu~,-· presentation is designed to give juniors ................ the. types of activities involved in ·· ·· search in their senior year as well as the ·and Placement Services office can assist in this fnl"i'\foA'Q~'~ It will he presented by Kitty Arnold, Career an lac•em•ent Services Director. 
"'Theology in a Catholic University," will be 
. ·  of a lecture by Professor Richard McBrien p~m, in th~ CCE Auditorium.  
Seniors, still haven't decided on your plans How about living and working in the  

~~n,~un.lvu with academically gifted yet at-risk e/Girls: Hope will be at the Center for IO:'I1ncArns on March 29 from 12· 6 p.m. to interview terested in volunteering as Residentia v""'"""'~v· · in one of 13 US locations. Call .Jennife olunteer Coordinator, at 1-800-545·2697 I""'·'""'·"''·" an interview, or simply stop by for more 
.. North South ;;~;;BBQRibs Cod With Herbs :· ~ro,leq Haddock Whipped Potatoes 
lifl Chocolate M&M Cake New York Cheesecake 
The Observer 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. Make checks payable to and mail to: 
The Observer PO BoxQ Notre Dame, IN  46556  
D  Enclo sed is $60 for one academic year.  
D  Enclo sed is $35 for one semester.  
Name Address City  State  Zip  

" 

I • I\ I 1 I'\ I I\ I\\ I;\ 1 \I 1 I I! I' I 'I\\\ 1 1 I 1 \I l I I • I' j I • 'iII I I I' 
.. 
SPORTS 
page 20 Tuesday, March 28, 1995 
• fENCING 

Notre Dame in three-way race for No. I 

Penn State, St. John :S stand in Irish :S way for second consecutive national championship 
ByJOE VILLINSKI Assistant Sports Editor 

After the metal stopped clanging yester­day at the Angela Athletic Center, a part of the NCAA Fencing Championship puzzle started to take shape. 
The piece that became clear was that the championship would be captured by either Penn State, St. John's, or Notre Dame. 
The Irish would drop one place to fifth by the conclusion of the third day. However, they will only remain there temporarily. 
Both Princeton and Yale who were right in the hunt after the women's rounds, failed to qualify all six of their fencers in the men's three weapons. Princeton lost both a men's epeeist and foilist before the crucial round of 24 began, while Yale lost one epeeist. Yale received consolation points for the epeeist, enabling them to leap ahead of Notre Dame. 
As for the Irish, they find themselves in a similar position as last year. Just as at Brandeis, the Irish need to comeback behind a strong effort by the men on the final day. 
That is easier said than done. "Tomorrow is going to be much tougher," epee captain Rakesh Patel said. 
The captain currently is in a four-way tie for first with a record of 6-2. Patel also went 3-2 in the first round to advance to the field of 24. 
"I know I've stepped it up another level," Patel added. "I feel that I am fencing as well and am as confident as last year." 
That is a good sign for the Irish who need a similar spark to the one Patel pro­vided last year. 
Freshman epeeist Carl Jackson may just be that spark after going 5-3 in his first NCAA championship, tying him for second with five other fencers. 
"He started off slow, but he's learning real quick and now knows what he needs to do," Patel said. 
In men's sabre, sophomore Bill Lester finds himself in a three-way tie for second with a 7-1 mark. Baron Rose of Yale leads all competitors as he went undefeated through his first eight matches. The only loss Lester suffered came to Cordero of Penn State in the final bout of the day, 5­2. 
"I don't think the loss will screw me up tomorrow," Lester said. 
Sabre captain Chris Hajnik also made the field of the top 24 fencers in the country. In that round, Hajnik went 3-4, losing one 
see FENCING I page 17 
• BASEBALL 

Hoosiers, Crotty pose tough test before Irish homecoming 
By MEGAN McGRATH SportS Wrirer 
One more game and the Notre Dame baseball team gets to play at home. 
If Mother Nature coop­erates, today's trip to Indiana will be the last away trip for the Irish for a 
'----:-----'"-"'---' long time. Crotty 
"After 19 road games, we can't wait to play in our beautiful ball park," says head coach Paul Mainieri, looking forward to staying home for 26 of the team's next 28 games. "But first we have to play hard against Indiana." 
The Hoosiers are 16-6 head­ing into today's contest, but have lost four of their last five. Infielder Mike Crotty leads Indiana batters with a .393 av­
.. erage, five home runs and 33 runs batted in. Notre Dame will look to con­tinue the momentum they 
gained following Sunday's 5-2 win over third ranked Miami. 
Senior pitchers Craig Allen and Tim Kraus led the way for the Irish against the Hurricanes. Allen went six and two-thirds innings, giving up five hits and one earned run. Kraus earned his third save of the year surrendering just one hit in two and a third innings. 
"Allen really stepped up for us in Miami," Mainieri said. "The team needed a lift after the two losses and he pitched an outstanding game. 
"Kraus proved again what a competitor he is," Mainieri continued. "Hs really battled for us." 
Today the Irish hand the pitching duties over to fresh­man Dan Stavisky. Stavisky has a no-decision in one start and Mainieri has high hopes for the rookie. 
"Dan started and pitched well enough against Texas-Pan American to earn the win," Mainieri said. "Unfortunately, they were able to tie the game 
see BASEBALL I page 16 
• MEN'S TENNIS 

Irish score Big with shutouts 
Indiana, Purdue blanked by red hot Notre Dame 
ByB.J. HOOD Spores Wrirer 

After struggling against tough competition early in the season, the men's tennis team is start­ing to gain confidence. Notre Dame posted two shutout victo­ries over the weekend, against Big Ten opponents Indiana and Purdue. 
"We were facing two teams we felt we could shutout if we played well," junior John J. O'Brien said. "It wasn't any­thing spectacular, but everyone came out and had solid perfor­mances." 
Against Indiana, Ryan Simme defeated Erik Barrett at num­ber one singles 6-3, 6-2, and Mike Sprouse beat Derek Pope 7-5, 6-3 at number two. Jason Pun lost the first set at number three 4-6, but won the second 6-2, and his opponent, Mark Abieman retired at the start of the third set. 
John J. O'Brien beat Saus Constantinou at number four, Jakub Pietrowski defeated Mike Filipek at number five, and Steve Flanigan was victorious at number six over Andrew Held. All three matches were decided in straight sets. 

In doubles competition, Sprouse and Pun topped Pope and Barrett 8-5, Flanigan and Pietrowski defeated Abieman and Behling 8-5, and Simme and O'Brien beat Held and Filipek 8-2. 
Coach Bobie Bayliss recently called the doubles play of Simme and O'Brien "outstand­ing". O'Brien spoke of their doubles play. "I prefer playing doubles because Ryan (Simme) and I complement each other very well. We're similar in the way we play, and we both are competitors." 
Sunday against Purdue, Sprouse beat Greg Wessenberg, Pun beat Ryan Maggart, O'Brien defeated 
see TENNIS/ page 1 5 

• 

Tuesday, March 28 

Wednesday, March 29 Thursday, March 30 
Friday, March 31 

ND Fencing: NCAA Championships 
ND Baseball vs. Cincinnati, 4 p.m. 
No sportS today. 
at a
(Final Day) 

ND Baseball: Home opener 
EckStadium 
ND Softball at Michigan 
vs. Bowling Green ND Softball vs. Bowling Green, 
Go outside and run or something. 

ND Baseball at Indiana 
Eck Stadium, 4 p.m. 3 p.m. at Ivy Field 
Ifyou're bored, call RecSporrs and 

SMC Tennis at Calvin College 
ND Women's Tennis vs. lllinois, 
join a Challenge-U-Aerobics class. 

SMC Softball at Bethel College 
3 p.m.
LANCE 




