

Wednesday, April19, 1995• Vol. XXVI No. 123 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Marsden awarded fellowship 
ffy MICHAEL EARLEY NewsWrircr 
George Marsden, professor of history, was recently awarded with a fellowship from the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation. 
Marsden was one of 152 chosen out of a pool of 2,856 applicants. 
Marsden, who taught at Duke University and Calvin College before com­ing to Notre Dame, is consid­ered one of the best professors of American religious history in the nation. 
Guggenheim fellows are ap­pointed on the basis of unusu­ally distinguished achievement io the past and exceptional promise for accomplishments in the future. 
According to Father Bill Mis­camble, director of the depart­ment of history, Marsden's fel­lowship award proved that the Foundation was recognizing a man who already is a "very distinguished historian." 
Marsden also received a grant from the National En­dowment for the II umanities for the same subject. 
lie joins a list of new Fellows which includes poets, novelists, playwrights, painters, sculp­tors, photographers, film mak­ers, choreographers, physical 



Bradley turns hobbies into career 
weekly radio commentaries onTeacher-writer WVPE 88.1 radio in Elhart, IN, a well-received National Public
shares talent Radio member station. 
"After my stories were onwith students the air, was the first time I received fan mail," Bradley
By JENNIFER LEWIS 
said. "It is great to have a 
Saim Mary's Assisram Ediwr 
reaction from your readers. It's annoying how little writers
Carol Bradley has turned her 
hear about their own writing,
hobbies into a career. 
in less they make a mistake,
As a teacher, writer, photog­
then they never hear the end
rapher, and radio commenta­
of it." 

tor, she certainly has her 
Bradley continued free lanc­
hands full. 

ing and writing Southern fami­
Bradley, a 15-year South 
ly stories for ten years. She
Bend resident, teaches two 
took a one year period of not
classes at Saint Mary's -jour­publishing outside articles, and •Won a Master Fellowship in Literature 
nalism in the fall and maga­
not making money, in order to
zine writing in the spring. But 
finish her narritives. •Published writings. In local, state,
that's not all she manages to 
In 1992, Bradley's long term
do with her time. As a "jack of and national periodicals
dedication ultimately paid off. 
many trades," Bradley started 
She won a Master Fellowship
exploring different fields as in Literature from the Indiana •Exhibited her photographs with 
soon as she finished school. 
Arts Commissioner with the narratives
Having completed graduate 
support of the National
school with a degree in coun­
Endowment of the Arts. This
seling in 1985, she worked as •Commentator on public radio
five thousand dollar grant was 
a Conference Coordinator at 
judged by a peer review panel. 
I.S.U.B. for seven months. But, writers that •Stories featured weekly on
Out of the 89

it wasn't until she began writ­
applied for the fellowship, National Public Radio
ing for "Arts Indiana," that she 
Bradley, who has taught adult
knew for certain what she 
education art classes since the The Observerrrom Roland 

wanted to do with her life. 
age of15, was picked number 
"It wasn't until I saw my needed to be acknowledged "This puts emphasis on one
one. 

name in print, my first by­first. It is frustrating because I of my golden rules," said
"When the phone rang," said 
line," said Bradley. "Until I was writing the same things Bradley, "write what you
Bradley. "It was a wonderful
thought, this is what I want to before I was recognized." know."
moment. It could not have
do for the rest of my life, and I Bradly used the money from On May 6, Bradley will have
come at a better time. I just
have been writing ever since." her fellowship to buy a new a solo exhibition of a eight
got thrown out of my writers
Bradley, who is orginally computer and start a new pro­slide lecture public program of 
group because they hated my
from Alabama, began writing ject. She exhibited pho­Midieval Gardens. 
stories. I was about to forget
stories about her eccentric tographs combined with her When asked what advice
writing and get a real job." 

Southern family. A number of own narritives at the Kennedy­she would give students inter­
Bradley's book manuscript,
her stories were published in Douglass Center of the Arts ested in writing, Bradley said, 
"Small Town Boy Does Pretty
local, state, and national. Florence, Alabama. "Writing is something that you
Good: Stories of a Southern 
newspapers and magazines. Bradley is a certified Master do, because you have to.
family," is being considered by
Her articles are narratives Gardener, a National program Follow your vision even if
publishers.

about people telling stories of of cooperative Extension ser­other people do not appreciate
"After the grant it was like, I
their own lives. A number of vice, and writes for the Garden 
was noticed," said Bradley. "I

her stories were serialized as section of South Bend Tribune. see BRADLEY I page 6 

see MARSDEN I page 4 

Black to speak at graduation Holy Cross officers 
honorary doctor of letters de­newspaper industry are associ­
SMC selects CEO 
decided in SMC runoff 
gree. ate members of NAA. 
The Newspaper Association Prior to her association withto offer insights of America (NAA) is the indus­NAA, Black joined Gannett Co. By LAURA FERGUSON change by October." 
try organization that represents Inc., "USA Today's" parent Saint Mary's News Editor Among the suggestion of the at ceremony 1,500 newspapers in the United company, as president of "USA Higginbotham ticket were the States and Canada. Today" in 1983. Alaina Higginbotham (presi­addition of a second e-mail
Special 10 the Observer 
The majority of these are She later became its publish­dent), Caroline Blum (vice terminal, better lighting for 
Cathleen Black, president and daily newspapers that account er, as well as executive vice president), Megan Driscoll the study lounges, a chief executive officer of the for approximately 85 percent of president/marketing of Gannett (secretary), and Amy Laws Masquerade Ball as a hall for­Newspaper Association of the daily circulation in the Co. Inc. and a member of the (treasurer) will head the Holy mal first semester, and speak­
United States. Gannett Board of Directors. Cross Hall Council next year at ers focused on multicultural­America, has been selected as 
the commencement speaker for Members also include many Black was appointed pub­Saint Mary's as a result of yes­ism and career workshops. the 148th commencement cere­other newspapers published in lisher of "New York" magazine terday's runoff election. mony of Saint Mary's College the Western Hemisphere, Eu­in April 1979, making her the They received 54 percent of Another major proposal of on May 20 at noon in the rope, and the Pacific. first woman publisher of a the total votes of Holy Cross this ticket was "Holy Cross LeMans Courtyard. Several hundred individuals weekly consumer magazine. residents for next year. Days" which would entail a 
Black will also receive an and companies allied with the She joined "New York" from week of activities such as "Ms." magazine, where she The opposing ticket of Emily scavenger hunts, a bonfire and began as advertising manager Broussard (president), Anne live bands, to unite the hall. in 1972, later becoming asso­Geisler (vice president), "We want to do this right 
ciate publisher. Prior to that, Jessica Reimers (secretary) away, while everyone is still she directed advertising sales and Eileen Newell (treasurer) meeting each other," said for "Holiday", "Travel & attracted 34 percent of the Blum. 
Leisure," and "New York." votes. According to Broussard, she 
A graduate of Trinity College, Twelve percent of the voters is saddened by the results. an all-women's college in abstained. In total, 45 percent "In a way I am disappointed Washington D.C., Black holds of next years Holy Cross resi­because I would have loved to 
five honorary degrees-from dents voted. have been on Hall Council but Capitol College, Laurel, Md; if I can't then we will all still Ithaca College, Ithaca, N.Y.; According to Blum, her tick­work hard for the hall council, Leigh University, Bethlehem et is enthusiastic about the maybe as committee heads," Pa.; Simmons College, Boston; coming year. said Broussard. and Trinity College, Washing­"We have a lot of great ideas ton D.C. that Holy Cross has never done The Higginbotham ticket will 
Black is a member of the to integrate the 'T' and the take office when Saint Mary's Board of Directors of the Coca-main wings," said Blum. students return in the fall. "People will be able to see a 
see BLACK I page 4 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, Aprill9, 1995 


• Wmn.o AT it GLANCE 

Forget the whales, save the artists 
You know who you Peggy Lenczewski are. You're the guy who Saint Mary's News told me during the first 
Editor 
semester .that all artists should be killed: painters, poets, musicians, dancers, architects, and writers. Anyone who has anything to do with aesthetics deserves. in your mind, to be exterminated. 
I want to be a great writer some day, an ambitious aspiration maybe, but, hey, it's that or Rodent Extermination. I want you to know that you offended me. You offended me a lot. What would the world be like without artists? Would you really want to live here? 
Very few man-made constructions would be attractive if they were built simply for func­tion with no thought to form. The Golden Dome? Hate to tell you this, but that's a work of art. The Basilica? All that rich and luxuri­ous detail qualifies as art. The purpose of that art is perfectly in keeping with the ideals of a Catholic institution. 
Have you ever wanted to impress your SYR date, woo the woman of your dreams, turn her knees to jello? Allow me to recommend Keats or Byron, poets both. If she's as weird as I am, she might even like Chaucer -if you can recite it in Old English. 
I'm biased in favor of letters. I've read so many of them and have come to love them. I know a little bit about writers, if only because I want to be one. Writers do a lot more than tell stories, and story telling in itself serves as a means of transmitting a common culture. I'm sure that even you would agree that is good. 
Writers and artists point out what is beauti­
ful in our culture, what is fine and noble and 
worth saving. And they can communicate 
those ideals so that other people can grasp 
them and appreciate them. 
Artists also point out what is wrong, what is 
unjust and cruel and overlooked, and what 
needs to change. 
Someone who can articulate as an artist 
chronicles the changing attitudes of society, 
and traces the different responses between 
generations. Artists articulate attitudes and 
feelings that don't easily lend themselves to 
expression. 
Traditionally, artists and writers get classi­
fied as "liberals" or "radicals." At Notre 
Dame, they are labeled with the feared and 
hated "Democrat." Conservatives look down 
upon them as unnecessary sometimes, and 
weird most of the time. 
Maybe we are. However, I prefer to think of inyself a:s an Independent. Dostoevski and Thoreau. Van Gogh and El Greco, Beethoven and Wagner were all creative and free-think­ing, were "weird" and "rebellious." Their influence is still felt today. 
As for the bizarre things artists and writers 
and poets do ... Well, why not? We don't hurt 
you. In fact, we provide you with a source of 
entertainment. Don't write us off as worthless 
or inconsequential. We're not. We could 
immortalize you and what we think of your 
smugness . It's been know to happen. 
You know who you are. You laughed at me 
when I streaked my hair pink to see what it 
was like. You laughed at me when I said I 
wanted to be a writer. You questioned the 
wisdom of choosing a career that could be so 
unstable and unlucrative. You said that artists 
had no worth and were unnecessary. 
But the next time you look up at the Golden 
Dome, think about what it means. And spare 
a thought for the artist behind it. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• Tm:uw's STAFF 
News Gwendolyn Norgle Accent Mark Huffman Shannon Marie Johnston 
Sports Production 
Tim Seymour 
Tara Grieshop Jackie Moser 
Graphics Tom Roland 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Clinton trying to refocus attention on his agenda 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton tried to reclaim attention GOP race for the for his agenda Tuesday with his first prime­time news conference since Republicans White House seized control of Congress. But the event gen­
Who's in, who's probably in and who's still
erated little enthusiasm among broadcast 
undecided on the 1@96 presidential race:
networks. 
The East Room session was portrayed by White House aides in advance as an effort, IN PROBABLE WILD with Congress out of town, to stake out new CARDS ground for the battles following the GOP's 100-day drive. 
Clinton is challenging Congress to complete its work on welfare reform by July 4, said presidential spokesman Mike McCurry. 
He also said Clinton would announce that two additional states -Missouri and Montana -have been granted waivers to give them more flexibility to develop their own welfare programs. That brings the num­ber of states with such waivers to 27. 
McCurry said Clinton would open the news conference with a statement contrasting his welfare plan with one a House-passed version that Clinton has threatened to veto. 
Of the broadcast networks. both ABC and NBC said they had decided not to air the event live. CBS said only hours before the news conference that it would carry it. CNN and C-Span planned to carry the event live. 
"Naturally we are somewhat disappointed that many of the commercial networks are not airing the news conference," McCurry said. But, he added, "We're confident that he will have an audience that is well worth the occasion." · It was Clinton's first evening meeting with reporters since Aug. 3 -and only the fourth 
AP
of his presidency. 
Quayle says he won't run for governor Parents are scared of the sciences 
INDIANAPOLIS WASHINGTON Dan Quayle announced Tuesday that 
"Where does the sun go at night?" "Why do leaves fall he will not run for governor of Indiana from trees?" "How come the sky is blue?" Children's 
in 1996 and was unlikely to seek office 
questions can drive parents crazy, but they also are keyagain unless it was the nation's highest to a child's ability to learn science, two new studies sug­one. Quayle had announced in gest -just as important as what happens in school. "Let February that he would not seek the them explore, let them ask questions," former astronaut White House in 1996. "When I made ·Mae Jemison told parents Tuesday. Most of all, don't that decision I knew there would be worry if you don't know the answer because that's what great interest here in Indiana that I run science is all about, she said. "Parents have to make sure for governor, and I owed it to the people of Indiana to 
they don't demotivate their kids, simply because they
give it a second thought," the former vice president told themselves are scared of science," Jemison said at a cable television's C-SPAN. "We love being back in 
seminar for parents and science teachers. Turn to a 
Indiana and I did give it a second thought, but my origi­library or teacher for help, Jemison told them. And nal instincts, my original decision was correct," Quayle 
encourage children's curiosity with easy lessons. "A walk 
said. "The only office I am truly interested in is running 
in the park is a biology lesson," agreed Anne Petersen,for the presidency." deputy director of the National Science Foundation. 
Women agree to worship more quietly Yellowstone river listed as endangered 
GREENSBURG, Pa. WASHINGTON 
Two women barred from church services for loud wor­Dams, mmmg, farm chemicals and an unfriendly ship said Tuesday that their "mission from Heaven is Congress pose the greatest threats to North America's 10 complete" and told a judge they would pray more quietly. "most endangered" rivers, including one in Yellowstone Joan Sudwoj, 43, and Cynthia Balconi, 60, promised the National Park, a conservation group said Tuesday. "We judge they would obey court orders issued last week for­are engaged in a high-risk replumbing job of our vital bidding them from entering two churches, according to river ecosystems," said Rebecca Wodder, president of Vincent Morocco, a lawyer for the Diocese of Greensburg. American Rivers. "The ongoing destruction of our rivers Neither the women nor Westmoreland County Common is especially disheartening since Congress is aggressively Pleas Judge Bernard Scherer would comment after their unraveling the environmental laws that have been passed private meeting, which lasted two hours. Last week, in the last 25 years to protect our nation's resources," Scherer approved requests from the Blessed Sacrament she said. Next on the 10 most-endangered list were: Cathedral in downtown Greensburg that the women not Colorado's Animas River, the Missouri River, Kansas be allowed to enter without permission. River, Mississippi River, West Virginia's Cheat River, 
Maine's Penobscot River and Alaska's Thorne River. 



The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, April 19. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1995Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY VIa Associa/Bd Press 
Atlanta  85  63  Dallas  75  56  New Orleans 84  71  
Baltimore  71  54  Denver  48  29  New York  69  52  
Boston  63  50  Los Angeles 71  51  Philadelphia 70  58  
Chicago  52  37  Miami  88  75  Phoenix  70  51  
Columbus  60  44  Minneapolis 50  37  St. Louis  62  52  

Wednesday, April 19, 1995 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Alcohol abuse council Hesburgh reelected to post 
asks Malloy to serve 
Special to The Observer 
Rev. Edward Malloy, C.S.C., president of the University of Notre Dame, has been appoint­ed to the National Advisory Council on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism by Health and Human Services Secretary D o n n a Shalala. 
Established under the auspices of the National Institutes for Health, the advisory council provides advice and recommendations on program and policy matters related to the prevention and treatment of alcohol abuse and alcoholism. Council activities include reviewing research p·rojects and grant proposals and assessing new information on the problem. 


One of 12 appointed mem­bers of the council, Malloy will serve a four-year term. 
He has been actively involved nationally and locally in the fight against substance abuse. He currently chairs the Commission on Substance Abuse at High Schools, an arm of the Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse (CASA) at Columbia University. He previ­ously ehaired a CASA commis­sion that in June 1994 released a major report on alcohol abuse on college and university campuses. 
Formerly a member of Presi­dent Bush's Drug Advisory Committee, Malloy also has served with the Community Anti-Drug Coalitions of Amer­ica, the National Citizens Com­mission on Alcoholism, and Gov. Evan Bayh's Commission for a Drug-Free Indiana. He also is the founder of the St. Joseph's County (Ind.) Coalition Against Drugs. 
Special to the Observer 
Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., president emeritus of the University of Notre Dame, has been reelected president of the Harvard University Board 
of Overseers for 1995-96. 
Elected to the board in 1990, he became pres­ident last June. He is the first 

c a t h o I i c Hesburgh 
priest to lead the principal governing body of America's oldest institution of 
higher learning. 
Hesburgh stepped down as Notre Dame president in 1987, ending the longest tenure among active presidents of American colleges and univer­sities. After a sabbatical, ho re­turned to office on the 13th floor of the newly named Hes­burgh Library to complete an autobiography. Published in 1990 by Doubleday, "God, Country, Notre Dame" became a national best seller, reaching No. 11 on the New York Times nonfiction list. 

Now 77, he continues to serve national and international organizations, write articles, deliver speeches, make guest appearances in Notre Dame classrooms, preside over litur­gies in University residence halls and advance interests of several Notre Dame academic institutes. Hesburgh was edu­cated at Notre Dame and the Gregorian University in Rome, from which he received a bach­elor in philosophy in 1939. He was ordained a priest of the Congregation of Holy Cross on June 24, 1943, in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. He contin­ued his study of sacred theology at the Catholic University of America and received his doc­torate in 1945. He joined the Notre Dame faculty the same year, was appointed head of the Theology Department in 1948, and the following year became executive vice president. At the age of 35, he was named the 15th president of Notre Dame. 
During his 35 years as Notre Dame's chief executive officer, the University's annual operat­ing budget went from $9 mil­lion to $176.6 million, the en­dowment from $9 million to $350 million, and research funding from $735,000 to $15 million. He considers his two main achievements as presi­dent to be the transfer of gov­ernance from the founding re­ligious community, the Congre­gation of Holy Cross, to a pre­dominantly lay board in 196 7, and the admission of women to the undergraduate program in 1972. Hesburgh has served four popes and has held 15 presidential appointments over the years. Highlighting a long list of awards is the Medal of Freedom, the nation's highest civilian honor, bestowed on him in 1964 by President Lyndon Johnson. His stature as an elder statesman in American higher education is reflected in his 129 honorary degrees, the most ever awarded to one per­son. 
SMC Residence Life reserves housing for seniors 
Holy Cross floor designated as senior section 
By MARIU'N ALIOTO News Writer 
Hooms are still available on the 4th floor of Holy Cross for senior students only, according to Suzie Orr, director of Resi­dence Life and Housing at Saint Mary's. 
This decision to limit the housing to seniors came after a meeting with Betsy Killian, the newly elected president of Senior Housing, Pamela Miller, director of Housing, and Suzie Orr. 
"Keeping seniors only (in the designated Senior Housing in Holy Cross) was one of our 
PROTECT YOUR CREATIVE PROPERTY! 

Special student memberships are available tn 
THE NATIONAL WRITERS LEAGUE 
Safeguard your Ideas, Treatments, Scripts, Books or Manuscripts. For membership information .1nd a free Property Registration Kit, 
CALL (219) 287-5082 


goals" said Suzie Orr. 
The fourth floor of Holy Cross was officially named the new location for Senior Housi~g after the administration announced that the current Senior Hall, Augusta, would not be available to house students next year. 
Miller said that the transition from Augusta to fourth floor Holy Cross went smoothly. 
She explained that although moving the seniors into Holy Cross lowered the class quota in each dorm by about ten stu­dents, housing is based on the "preference of what students want, not necessarily because Augusta closed." 
She compared last years senior class with the incoming seniors and found that last year, in Augusta, the quads were the first rooms to be reserved. 

This year, however, "the sin­gles were the first to go across the board," she said. 
According to Miller, there are a good number of seniors living in LeMans and on other floors of Holy Cross. Although the fourth floor is designated as Senior Housing, "seniors did not flock there," Orr said. 
There are currently five rooms unoccupied on the fourth floor in Holy Cross: one quint, two quads, and two doubles. The quint and the two quads will be turned into three triples and the two doubles will be turned into two singles. 
If any senior who is presently reserving a room on the fourth floor in Holy Cross wishes to change her room for another room in that section, they should contact the Office of Resident Life and Housing on April 20. 
For any senior who is not currently holding a room on the fourth floor of Holy Cross and wishes to move into that sec­tion, she should contact the Of­fice of Residence Life and Hous­ing from April 21-April 25 be­tween 8:30 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. 
The senior residents of the fourth floor in Holy Cross will nama the section for next year as well. 




LAFAYETTE SQUARE 
T 0 W N H 0 M E S 
NEWLY REMODELED 
•
NEW CARPETS 

•
NEW TILE FLOORS 

•
COMPLETE REPAINTING OF EVERY UNIT 


AND MUCH MORE ! 

ADVANTAGES WE OFFER 
•FOUR AND FIVE BEDROOM TOWNHOMES 
·WASHER AND DRYER IN EVERY APARTMENT 
·DISHWASHER 
•
CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING 

•
ADT SECURITY SYSTEMS • 24-HOURMAINTENANCE 

•
NOW OFFERING SOME FURNISHED UNITS 




UNITS STILL AVAILABLE 
Wednesday, April 19, 1995 

page4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 


Marsden 
continued from page I 
and biological scientists, social scientists and scholars in the humanities. 
This award will give atten­tion to a history department that already leads the nation in the field of American reli­gious history, according to Miscamble. 
Such an award will boost the 

reputation of a department 
that has had many other of its 
professors distinguished by 
similar types of awards in the 
past. 
According to Miscamble, this fellowship adds to Marsden's reputation as being one of the "foremost historians of Ameri­can religion in the country." 


Black 
continued from page 1 
Cola Company, Atlanta. 
In addition, she is active on the boards of the Advertising Council and United Way of America. 
Black has received numerous honors and had been profiled frequently in the media. 
She was inducted into the National Sales Hall of Fame. 
"Ladies Home Journal" has named her as one of "The Fifty Most Powerful Women in America." 
The Sara Lee Corporation awarded her its Frontrunner Award for business excellence. "Business Month" magazine selected her as one of the "100 Women to Watch in Corporate America." Earlier, she was named by "Ms." magazine as one of its "Women of the Year." In January, 1995, Black was the cover feature on Northwest Airline's popular "World Traveler" magazine. 
She also has been the· re­cipient of Los Angeles Advertis­ing Women's "Outstanding Communicator" Award, the NOW Legal Defense .. and Educa­tion Fund Award, the Matix Award, and the Catalyst Award. 
The public is invited to attend the Saint Mary's commence­ment in LeMans Courtyard. 
The rain site for the ceremo­ny is Angela Athletic Facility. Due to road construction on US 31/3 3 and the closing of toll road exit 77, guest are encour­aged to take alternate routes to campus where possible to alle­viate congestion. 
-------------~~---~-­
Wednesday, April 19, 1995 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 

German ruling examined 
By EDWARD IMBUS 
Associate News Editor 
A major internal debate in Germany, as to whether or not military operations besides those in defense should be per­mitted, took a major turn with a ruling from the German Federal Constitutional Court. The impact of this decision was explored yesterday by Law Professor Donald Kommers. 
An enormous, 110 page opin­ion by the Court gave the German armed forces the legal standing to engage in military exercises in accordance with specific guidelines to be strictly followed, Kommers said, except in cases of "emergency defense." 
The Court listed seven points in its decision, described by Kommers as "a complicated ruling, which turned out to be a comprimise" for the two politi­cal extremes fighting the issue. The most important were that any military operations re­quired the approval of parlia­ment. All "out or area" military exercises -those outside of German defense -also need to both sanctioned and done under a collective security agreement and must be done "in the preservation of peace," Kommers said of the ruling. 
The political implications of this ruling were significant, according to Kommers.-"This is a massive reassertion of German sovereignty in the mili­tary field," he said, "as long as parliamentary approval has been secured." The Court's ruling gave the German govern­ment the constitutional power to engage in military action, at a time when the German public is hotly debating its new role in global affairs. 
Kommers said that one view, and the one he l!plds, is that Germany has become a strong and influential country in the world, with which comes more international responsibility. The ability to wield military power is important, he said, to fulfill those responsibilities. 
However, others in Germany, especially those sympathetic to the Social Democratic Party, argued that the constitution allowed for no military action whatsoever beyond its borders, that the armed forces should be used for domestic use and defense only. 
The ruling was also impor­tant in German attempts to acquire a permanent seat in the UN Security Council. 
Such important membership, Kommers asserted, would com­pel Germans, by implied duty, to assist and lead in UN mili­tary security operations. 
The ruling explicitly stated that German troops engaged in consitutionally correct military action would also be allowed to serve under the command of another nation in a collective action, despite the concern of some that German sovereignty would be compromised by doing so, Kommers said. 

• HALL PRESIDENTS COUNCIL 
Sports tournaments to kick off AnTostal week 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST Among the other activities scheduled However, only those dorms who have April 24-26. Associate News Editor for the week are a euchre tournament paid the $100 entry by this Thursday Monday night from 7-11 p.m. in night will be eligible to win money. In other HPC news: 
The first round of flag football and vol­LaFortune; a food obstacle course, As part of the closing activities, a 24-Student Body President Jonathan leyball tournaments will be part of An­including eating Cheetos with chopsticks hour charity run sponsored by the Patrick and Vice-President Dennis Tostal's kick off activities on Monday and finding a Life-Saver in a mound of Arnold Air Society will take place from 4 McCarthy announced plans for a rum­afternoon next week, it was announced whipped cream with the tongue, at 4 p.m. Friday to 4 p.m. Saturday. mage sale in the near future and the at the Hall Presidents' Council meeting p.m. on Thursday at a location to be Runners will run in teams of at least two establishment of a forum via e-mail, last night. announced; a Laser-Tag event on Thurs­for a half hour, with proceeds to benefit whereby students can voice their con­
The tournaments will continue day and Friday from 1-5 p.m. on North the Veterans Affairs Medical Center of cerns on any issue. throughout the week, culminating in the Qul}d; and a pizza eating contest at 4 Fort Wayne (Ind.). Patrick and McCarthy also said that its final rounds on Friday. Residence halls p.m. on Friday at an as-yet unan­Prizes, including gift certificates to office will be represented at each IIPC will be competing against each other, nounced site. local restaurants, will be awarded to the meeting, something that their predeces­with men and women in separate divi­The top three dorms will receive part teams bringing in the most money. sors, Dave Hungeling and Matt Orsagh, sions. of an expected $2500 in prize money. Sign-ups will be held in the dining halls never did. 

PowerBooj(® 520c w/Modem 
12MB RAM/320MB hard drive and modem. 
RIGHT NOW AT YOUR CAMPUS RESELLER. 
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB •631-7477 M-F9am-Spm 
Producl prices. producl arvtilabilily and sales taxes may vary. ©1995 A/J{J[e Computer, Inc. All rights resen'l!d Apple. the Apple logo. Macintosh, Macintosh Peforma, PmmBook and "71Je power to heyour best" are registered trrukmarks ofApple Computer, Inc. Pou>er Macintosh and Mac are lrrJdemarfts ofApple Computer, Inc. All Apple"producJs are ikstgned to he accessible to lndlvidUIJis with disabdlty. 7b learn more (U.S. only), ca/1800-776-2333 or 7DD 800-833-6223. 
.----~----------------------~ 
page 6 

Ministers draw lines for battle over treaty 
By CHARLES HANLEY 
Associated Press 

UNITED NATIONS 
Foreign ministers from "north" and "south" drew the lines Tuesday for a diplomatic battle over the treaty that has kept nuclear arms in check for a quarter-century. 
In the second day of a confer­ence to renew the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, Nigeria's foreign minister, Tom Ikimi, staked out the position of Third VVorld hard-liners. 
"The way forward," he said, "is to extend the treaty for a ftxed period" -'and not indefi­nitely, as sought by the United States. 
Many states without nuclear weapons want only limited, pe­riodic extensions of the treaty, renewals made contingent on progress toward general nu­clear disarmament. 
Ikirhi called for "a program 
of action to achieve a nuclear­
free world in the 21st century." 
But the Clinton administra­
tion Tuesday seemed to win 
some softening in the attitude 
of another key Third VVorld 
nation -Mexico -toward the 
U.S. proposal for an indefinite and unconditional extension of 
the treaty. Mexico's dependence on U.S. 
Bradley 
continued from page 1 
it." 

Bradley's future plans consist of working on another book project. As the Indiana Humanities Grant Project Dictator, she is currently writ­ing a book on the oral history of the Swedish immigrant com­munity in South Bend. In cele­brating the 115 year anniver­sary of Swedish immigrants, the book will contain narra­tives, photographs, and recipes. 
In addition to her other accomplishments, Bradley is a mother of two girls, with whom she enjoys spending time. 
"Free lancing is great," said Bradley. "You can have a career and not have to sacri­fice being home with your chil­dren. It also lets you have a real life." 
Even though her numerous accomplishments may be viewed as exceptional by oth­ers, living what she considers to be "a real life" is important to Bradley. 
"I have a lot of interests," she said. "It would have been difli­cult for me to only concentrate on one of them." 
Engagement Rings 
10%-15% OFF! Official Wholesale Price List! 

S.A. Peck & Co. 

55 E. Washington, Chicago, /L 60602 For a Free 32·Page Color Catalog Toll-Fret (800) 922·009~ FAX (312) 977-0248 lnttmet CaJa/ogat blip: 1/www.sapeck.com/sapeck 
NEW
.~,~~. Wedding Gowns 
--· Now $75-$485 ~ · Bridesmaid 
·,. . . . . ' Dresses 
~~ ; Now $45-$85 
In Stock Sizes 2-44 
·W~N2~4~5~17 ~Ell· maw 

GREiid~s il 
loc:a•rd•n•Mptnlo'-14' 
e•
314 W. LaSalle. Soulh Bend Open Mon. ·Sal. 

L_ 
aid through its current fiscal crisis has put it in an awkward diplomatic position. Addressing the conference after meeting privately with Secretary of State VVarren Christopher, Mexico's foreign minister, Jose Angel Gurria, expressed "understanding" for 
the concern of some about limiting the treaty. 
Although he said treaty ex­tension should not be "an end in itselr' and called for con­crete steps on arms control, such as com.pletion of a nuclear test-ban treaty, Gurria did not endorse the idea of limited extensions tied to specific con­ditions. 
Instead, he said simply that the conference should find "a suitable formula that enjoys the support of the vast majority of the states." 
China, too, was noncommittal 
on the extension question. 
Foreign Minister Qian Qichen 
called for a "smooth exten­
sion" of the pact. 
The Non-Proliferation Treaty, 
signed by 178 nations, is the 
cornerstone of global arms 
control. 

------· 

The ObserverNincent Low 

Cooling off 
Taking a drink before his lengthy and informative lecture, Carlos Acuna prepares to speak on elements of industrial reforms. 
~I.II-~I ~ --~-~ 



Tickets: $15 for Flip Side members, $18 for everyone else, not including dinner. Tickets available at the LaFortune Info. Desk! 
These prices are a nearly 30% discount from what TOTO'S and 2nd City would 
usually cost. WHAT A DEAL! 
Buses leave from the library circle at 4pm on 
Friday, April 21! We will be returning at 
approximately 2:30AM! 
----~ ----~----~--,_....,~-----­
Wednesday, April 19, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
• RESIDENCE HAU ASSOCIATION 


Board outlines goals 




Black box recorders found after jet crashes 
Air Force jet crash.. .,. . . .;... 
An assistant secrelaly of the Ajr Fon:e and ~~;~·,;,::;._·. seven other people were killed when their o jet exploded and crashed Monday. 
C-21 Learjet 

Wing span: 39ft. 6 ln. (12.04 m) 
Length: 48ft. Bin. (14.83 m) 
Haight: 12ft. 31n. (3,73 m) 

Maximum cruiaing speed: 529 mph 
(852 kmlh; 460 knots) 

Paasengar capacity: six passengers, two crew members 
AP/Catt Fox 

U.S. Air Force and the nation." Defense Secre­tary William Perry said he had known Fiester for 38 years. 
Fiester was on his way to visit Brooks and Kelly Air Force bases, both at San Antonio, and give a briefing at the Human Systems Center at Brooks. 
Fiester, 60, had been undersecretary for acqui­sitions for a year. Before that he was group vice president and general manager of the Electronic Defense Sector, GTE Government Systems, based in Mountain View, Calif. 
The others killed were Fiester's assistant, Col. Jack Clark II; Maj. Hubert Fisher, who was assigned to the Pentagon; the aircraft comman­der, 1st Lt. Paul Bowers; an instructor pilot, Capt. Paul Carley; and two passengers who had joined the flight on a "space available" basis, Air Force Maj. James Horne .and Sgt. Padro Mercado, Air Force officials said. 
Bowers was at the controls, Maxwell officials said. 
By PEGGY LENCZEWSKI 
Sainr Mary's News Editor 
The new Residence Hall As­sociation board outlined its new goals and expectations at last night's RHA meeting. 
The meeting began with the old board reading the minutes from last week's meeting and the introduction of the new board, consisting of President Tara Hooper, Vice-President Barbara VanDersarl, Secretary Laura Richter and Treasurer Cynthia Exconde. 
Hooper discussed the three main goals of next year's Resi­dence Hall Association. 
The board would like to increase the awareness of RHA on campus. "RIIA is only five or six years old, and a lot of people are not aware of the organization. We hope that by increasing publicity more peo­ple will become aware of the organization," Hooper said. By designing a new logo for HilA, targeting freshman for involvement, and providing HilA T-shirts, Hooper said she hopes the organization will grow. Hooper also stated that HilA would like to "carry out efficient and effective meet­ings" in order to better coordi­nate activities between resi­dence halls. 
The final goal for next year will be to increase HHA partici­pation and attendance. 
According to Exconde, "Attendance is now manda­tory." 
"The Ilall Council President and one Hall Council executive as well as two Hall Council rep­resentatives must attend every meeting," she told the RHA. 
Hooper, also, commented, "We can't get anything done if you don't show up." 
A new part of the RHA constitution stipulates that if a Hall Executive misses three meetings in a semester or two consecutive meetings, he or she will be dismissed. Hooper explained that all these goals go together. "If members come to meetings, which are efficient and effective, the awareness of HHA will increase." 
Hooper also said she expects that RHA's goal will be carried out into the individual Hall Councils. She said that she hopes "to make RHA fun so that people will want to be a part of it." 
The new board stressed that "RI-IA is not just the board. We cannot do all the work. RHA is make up of you, and we need you to participate." A new fea­ture of RHA is the introduction of various committees designed to individually supervise differ­ent areas of HHA involvement. The committees supervise re­cycling, Notre Dame/Saint Mary's relations, hall im­provement, publicity, and Alco­hol Awareness Week. 
Hooper stated that all RHA members should display enthu­siasm because HHA has a lot of power and can accomplish a lot in the next year. By improving Residence Halls, implementing policy changes, sponsoring ac­tivities and continue improving the campus, RHA hopes to in­crease its visibility and increase RHA support. 
Military searches for cause with the help ofvoice data 
By JESSICA SAUNDERS 
Associated Press 
ALEXANDER CITY, Ala. 
Investigators recovered the black box recorders Tuesday from the wreckage of a mili­tary jet that cr.ashed in flames, killing eight peo­ple, including an assistant Air Force secretary and a two-star general. 
The C-21, an Air Force version of the Learjet, went down in a residential neighborhood Monday evening about four miles short of the Alexander City airport. 
"It was making an awful noise," said Minnie Blair, who was walking her 7-month-old grand­son when the jet roared into view. 
"I told my grandson, 'Bud, this thing is going to hit us."' "He must have been a really good pilot to have kept it away from the houses," Mrs. Blair said. 
The passenger jet, with a crew of two and six passengers, had left Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland for Handolph Air Force Base at San Antonio. 
The crew reported trouble and headed for Maxwell Air Force Base in Montgomery, some 50 miles from Alexander City, but then decided they needed a closer airstrip and tried to reach the Alexander City airport. officials said. 
The nature of the trouble reported by the crew was not immediately known. 
The plane's cockpit voice and flight data recorders were recovered from the wreckage. An Air Force board was formed to investigate the cause of the crash. 
Among the victims were Clark Fiester, one of four undersecretaries of the Air Force, and Maj. Gen. Glenn Profitt II, director of plans and opera­tions for the Air Education and Training Command at Randolph. 
President Clinton called it "a tragic loss for the 


Gov. Ann Richards 
The former Democratic Governor of Texas will speak on the topic: 
Politics in the '90s: A Woman's Perspective 
Time: Tonight, 7:30 pm Place: Washington Hall Tickets: Available at the LaFortune 
Info Desk $3; Students $5 General Public 
Sponsored by the Office of Student Activities and Student Government 

~-~-~-­
' page 8 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, April 19, 1995 
~------~------~--~~~~~~~~~~~==~~~ 
Casey drops plans to run 
By JOHN KING 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Citing health concerns, for­mer Pennsylvania Gov. Robert Casey said Tuesday he was reluctantly abandoning plans to challenge President Clinton in next year's Democratic pri­maries. 
Casey's decision drew quick praise from the White House and the Democratic National Committee chairman, and appeared to significantly reduce the odds that Clinton would face a primary challenge next year. Casey had been the only potential challenger to begin organizing, although two­time Democratic candidate Jesse Jackson has not ruled out running. 
After months of threatening to challenge Clinton, Casey last month formed a campaign committee so he could raise money. He also recruited veter­an Republican and anti-abor­tion activist Jeffrey Bell as his chief strategist. 
But Casey, 63, who under­went a rare heart-liver trans­plant in 1993, said his busy 
great scores••• 
travel schedule to raise money and build support had caused doubts about his ability to wage a vigorous effort. 
"I am not convinced that I could, at this time, sustain the extraordinary energy level required by a national cam­paign," Casey said in a state­ment. 
"Having come to this conclu­sion, which I reach reluctantly and with regret. I cannot in good conscience continue to solicit financial and political support." 
For Clinton, the decision means he will be spared, in least in a formal campaign set­ting, from Casey's criticism that the president and the Democratic Party suffer a "moral deficit" anchored on their support for abortion rights. 
Casey's anger at Clinton dates back to the 1992 Democratic convention, when Clinton denied Casey's request that he be allowed to address the dele­gates and discuss his anti-abor­tion views. 
In preparing for the cam­paign, adviser Bell had predict­ed Casey would score well 


----------.. 
' I 

Call: 1-800-KAP-TEST summer classes start June 26 Kaplan helps you focus your get a higher score 
MCAT studies and build your 
confidence, so you can get a 
higher score. 


KAPLAN 
great scores•••

... 
---------t 
Call: 1-800-KAP-TEST 
Summer classes start June 29 
get a higher score 
Kaplan helps you focus your 
LSAT studies and build your 


KAPLAN
confidence so you can get a 
·As documented In the May 1994 Kaplan LSAT
higher score. 
Performance Study conducted by Price Waterhouse. 
great scores••• 


·---------· 
t 
1-800-KAP-TEST Summer classes start June 27 
get a higher score
Kaplan helps you focus your GRE studies and build your confidence so you can get a 



KAPLAN
higher score. 


THE CUSHWA CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF AMERICAN CATHOLICISM 
PRESENTS 

Axes of Conflict in American Catholicism 
Gene Burns 
Princeton University . 
Thursday, April 20, 1995 
4:15p.m. Hesburgh Library Lounge 
against Clinton in February's Iowa caucuses because of the state's strong anti-abortion movement. Casey aides had also sounded out anti-abortion activists in New Hampshire, but with little success. 
Casey's statement made no mention of Clinton, but said he would "continue to fight for the things I believe in." 
At the White House, press secretary Mike McCurry said Clinton "has utmost respect" for Casey. 
"The president respects Governor Casey's decision and wishes him well," McCurry said. 
Democratic chairman Don Fowler said Casey's decision was "recognition that the presi­dent deserves renomination. The less complicated that process is, the better." 
Casey said he reached his decision Monday night, after seeing his doctors about an upper respiratory infection. 
Haitian police arrest second murder suspect 
By MICHAEL NORTON 
Associated Press 

PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti 
Haitian police have arrested a second suspect in the machine-gun slaying of far­right opposition leader Mireille Durocher Bertin, the U.N. mili­tary mission said Tuesday. 
Gerald Benius, 31, was ar­rested Monday and is being in­terrogated by police and the FBI in connection with the March 28 attack, U.N. spokesman Eric Fait told a news conference. 
Members of the U.N. force in Haiti helped Haitian police ar­rest Benius. who is being held at the Petionville police sta­tion, Fait. 
Bertin, 35, was a lawyer and top aide to coup leaders who overthrew President Jean­Bertrand Aristide in 1991. She was one of Aristide's most ve­hement opponents, criticizing him and the U.S. intervention that returned him to power in October. 
Her assassination, two days hours before President Clinton visited Haiti, embarrassed both the U.S. and Haitian governments. 
The first suspect. Claudy Lacroix, was arrested Friday at his home near the scene of the crime. 
Falt was unable to give more information about Benius or Lacroix, but a former Haitian police officer identified Lacroix as a small-time crimi­nal. 
U.S. officials have admitted getting information 10 days before Bertin was killed about a plot against her life. They arrested six leftist activists March 19. 

+7.2 points* 

Top 10 reasons to see the Irish Aeeent show Thursday~ April20: 10. Where else can y.ou scream, ""condom", and ""diaphragm"? 9. It doesn't matter if you're from over there...or from over there. . . . or whatever... 8. Free nipple piercing! 7. Even the gimp is waking up for this one! 6. "Cause they let the mother die on E.R.... How could they? The Jerks! 5. Irish Aeeent is like a box of chocolates. 4. We only use ""free-range" comedians. 3. We're crazy, sexy, cool! 2. Your mom loved the dress rehearsal. l. Our black market babies are discount priced! Don't forget!!! Irish Aeeent Show Thursday, April20 9:00p.m. LaFortune Ballroom "More fun than a barrel ofmonkeys going over Niagara Falls" --P. T. Barnum  

SK RACE FOR EDUCATION SAT. APRIL 22, 1995, 9 A.M. SIGN-UP AT DINING HALLS, LA FORTUNE, & LAW SCHOOL ON APRIL 12, 13, 19, 20, & 21, and ON-SITE AT LAW SCHOOL RUNNERS GET A FREET-SHIRT (WITH DESIGN BELOW)  

--~ ~----.....--.--~-------------­
Wednesday, April 19, 1995 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 


Twelve year-old child labor activist murdered 
Twelve-year-old activist slain 

Masih :S shooting linked to mafia conspiracy 
By KATHY GANNON Associaced Press 
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan 

When Iqbal Masih was 4 years old, his parents sold him into slavery. 
For the next six years, he remained shaekled to a carpet­weaving loom most of the time, tying tiny knots hour after hour. 
By age 12, he was free and traveling the world in his cru­sade against the horrors of child labor. 
On Sunday, Iqbal was shot dead while he and two friends were riding their bikes in their village of Muritke, 22 miles outside the eastern city of I.ahore. 
Some believe his murder was carried out by angry members of the carpet industry who had made repeated threats to si­lence the young activist. 
"We know his death was a conspiracy by the carpet mafia," claimed Ehsan Ullah Khan, chairman of the Bonded Labor Liberation Front, a pri­vate group that fights against child labor in Pakistan. 
Iqbal, a Christian, was home from school in Lahore for the Easter holiday. 
A man known only as Ashraf. a laborer in Muritke, was ar­rested in connection with the shooting, but has been re­leased, Khan said. 
Rana Iqbal, deputy superin­tendent of police for the dis­trict, said Tuesday he was investigating the shooting but had no details. 
The killing came only months after young Iqbal had attracted international atten­tion. 
At a labor conference in Stockholm, Sweden, last November, he spoke about the horrible conditions faced by child workers, who toil for long hours in unsafe condi­tions and earn as little as one rupee-three cents-a day. 
"We had to get up at 4 and work 12 hours," Iqbal told the eonference, barely tall enough at the time to peer over the podium. 
"We were cha·ined to the looms, but after work, we were usually released and could go home to sleep." 
When he was 10, Iqbal con­tacted the BLLF and was able to escape the factory. 
He still owed his boss 13,000 rupees -the equivalent of $419 -a huge sum consider­ing he earned only one rupee a day. 
In December, Iqbal went to Boston to receive the Reebok Youth in Action Award from the American shoe company. 
At the time, Iqbal said he wanted to become a lawyer and would use the $15,000 prize money for school. Brandeis University in subur­ban Boston gave him a stand­ing offer of a full scholarship. 
A world of opportunity had suddenly opened up for Iqbal, who had begun to attend school in Lahore and boasted he had turned the tables on his old boss. 
''I'm not afraid of him any longer. Now he's afraid of me," Iqbal said in an interview shortly before the Reebok award ceremony. 
But Iqbal received repeated death threats from people in the powerful carpet-weaving industry. 
The latest was received just two weeks ago, said Khan, who traveled with Iqbal to Boston. 
Khan said Iqbal's campaign against child labor had led to the closure of dozens of car­pet-weaving factories in his district. 
"He was so brave ... you can't imagine," said Khan. "He also has managed to free thousands of children." 
Pakistan has an estimated 6 million child workers age 14 or younger, according to the Human Rights Commission, an independent group. 
They labor in carpet facto­ries, brick-making plants, on farms and as household ser­vants. 
Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto has vowed to fight child labor but her government has taken only limited action. 
It faces powerful industries who argue that the impover­ished country needs their export earnings from carpets and other goods sold abroad. 
Carpet factory owners prefer children because their tiny fin­gers make the smallest, tight­est knots, and hence the best carpets. 
Iqbal's case was typical. His 

~THE1995 

SENIOR INFORMAL (tMPUS -Friday, April 21st ­MINISTRY \ 
TO BENEFIT THE HOLY CROSS MISSION 
Full Sit Down Dinner Banquet 

St. IJatrick 's Parish Center Downtown South Bend 
$10/persou 

Tickets on sale at tlte Canzpus Mi1listnj Office in the I-Iesburglt LibranJ 
Doors open at 6:00 p.tn. Dinner pronzptly at 6:30 p.1n. 
Iqbal Masih who spoke out against child labor abuses in Pakistan was gunned down Sunday in his village, after receiving several death threats from people in the carpet-weaving industry. 
.-.,....... Iqbal Masih 
• 
Sold by his parents at age 4, for less than $16 

• 
Worked as a carpet weaver, shackled to a carpet loom, from age 4 ·10 

• 
Earned one rupee a day, about $3 

• 
November 1994: Spoke on the working conditions of child laborers at an International labor conference in Sweden. 

• 
December 1994: Received the Reebok Youth in Action Award in Boston. 


parents sold him to the carpet factory at age 4 for less than $16, and he spent his days bound to a carpet-weaving loom. 
Khan recalled his first meet­ing with Iqbal. 
He was emaciated and wheezing like an old man, cowering in the corner of a meeting hall where Khan had 
INDIA 
300 miles e::::::s 300km. 

Child labor and carpet factories An estimated 6 million children age 14 and youn~er work in Pakistan in carpet factones, brick-making plants, on farms and as servants. 
• 
Children work as many as 12 hours a day, waking up at 4 a.m. 

• 
Child carpet weavers are chained to looms 

• 
In carpet factories, the air is full of dust causing breathing difficulties 

• 
The government barred the practice of bonding children as laborers in 1992 -the law remains largely unenforced 


Why children carpet weavers? 
• 
Cheap labor 

• 
Seldom complain about abuses 

• 
Tiny fingers can make tight knots 


AP/ Terry Kole 

gathered local villagers to urge them to light against forced la­bor. 
"Iqbal was hiding himself, it was like he was trying to disappear. He was so fright­ened," recalled Khan. "But, I felt there was something in this boy, that he had a strong will." 

~-----~--­
The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, Aprill9, 1995 
Doctors suffer symptoms of gas attack 

By BRAYEN SMILLIE 
Associated Press 
TOKYO 
Some doctors and nurses who treated victims of Tokyo's subway gas attack also suffered symptoms of nerve gas poison­ing from being exposed to small amounts on victims' clothing, hospital officials said Tuesday. 
Twelve people were killed and 5,500 injured when the nerve gas sarin was released March 20 on five Tokyo subway trains. Many of the injured lost consciousness, had trouble breathing or were partially blinded. 
At Saint Luke's International Hospital, which treated 1,410 victims, at least 10 doctors and nurses suffered milder versions of the same symptoms, hospital officials said. 

The symptoms have mostly cleared up, but the fears of hos­pital workers have not. 
Doctors said rescue workers could have been killed if they touched a large enough patch of poison-soaked clothing. Even a tiny droplet of sarin can kill within seconds when it is ab­sorbed through the skin. 
Hospital staffers have met to discuss emergency plans to bet­ter protect themselves if an­other nerve gas attack should occur. 
Most victims' physical symp­toms had improved, but doctors 
Winnie Mandela enters hospital after dispute 
Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG 
Winnie Mandela entered a hospital Tuesday, a day after her dispute with her estranged husband ended with her resig­nation from his Cabinet. 
A spokeswoman for Linksfield Park Clinic in Johannesburg said Mrs. Mandela's condition was not serious, and that she was not expected to be hospital­ized for more than a night. 
The spokeswoman, who refused to be named, said Mrs. Mandela appeared to be suffer­ing from stress, needed a rest, and was undergoing tests. 
Mrs. Mandela announced Monday that she was resigning from President Nelson Mande­Ia's Cabinet, one day before her dismissal was to take effect. She pledged to continue working for Mandela's African National Congress. 

Mandela had fired his wife as deputy minister of arts, culture, science and technology March 27, following her involvement in a string of embarrassing in­cidents. 
Mrs. Mandela went to court to challenge her dismissal, prompting the president to re­hire her just long enough to con­sult with other party leaders, a Constitutional requirement he had at first neglected. 
The president fired Mrs. Mandela again last week. The couple has been sepa­rated since 1992. 
Will summer leave you spiritually dry? Come & discuss: ''Hot Tips for Summer Spiritual Growth'' 
Power  
Get a "Grab 'N Go"  or Bring Your Tray  




said they were treating more people for post-traumatic stress disorders. Several victims are incapacitated by fear and in­somnia, said Noriko Kawana, a nurse at the hospital. 
On Tuesday, police continued to search the facilities of a cult, Aum Shinri Kyo, suspected of carrying out the attack. 
The sect has denied any responsibility, but police say they have evidence to prove it made sarin at a commune near Mount Fuji. 
Last week, riot police carried off 53 children from the com­mune, 36 miles southwest of Tokyo, and placed them in pro­tective custody. Police say au­thorities were unable to find the parents and the children, who range in age from 3 to 13, appeared malnourished. Ten were briefly hospitalized. 
Only 40 of the children have been identified so far. Some re­portedly said they had been separated from their parents for several years. Many did not know how to use a toilet, said Shiroo Yazaki, head of the chil­dren's center where they were taken. 
On Tuesday, Yazaki said, the last child voluntarily took off his cult headgear, a contraption of electrodes and wires that fol­lowers believe let them syn­chronize brain waves with the sect's leader, Shoko Asahara. 

• 
great starting pay 

• 
medical and dental care 

• 
30 days vacation with pay per year 

• 
management opportunities Go far in a career as an Air Force officer. Call 


AIR FORCE OPPORTUNITIES 1-800-423-USAF 
-----..
....... '>
~= 
~-~ 

~=============......_,.._.... -.. ,
-----=-_,.
=----~~-­
1994-95 JOHN M. DUGGAN SER1ES 
Gus 
J~
·oraano 
oonce 
ICOQO 
*Unaffected, exhilarating and pure jazz* 
-Baltimore Evening Sun 
SATURDAY, APRIL 22, 8 P.M. O'LAUGHUN AUDITORIUM 
TICKETS $8* ALL SEATS RESERVED 
Discounts available for senior citizens, groups, SMC-ND community and students. Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, located in O'Laughlin, 9-5 Mon.-Fri. Discover, Visa. MasterCard at 219/284-4626. 
/'\ORffiU CfnTfR 
fOR ll1f <fl RT S 

Wednesday, April 19, 1995 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 11 
-------~-----=-= 
Heaven & E::~:t"'th' 
"1/ave Itlleaveu Seut" I 
143 DlxftWoyS•uth (31 N.l AtTDssjrom Bob Ev•ns 
South Bmd,IN 46637 
(1191173-1212 

20% OffYour Next Floral Arrar~gemer~t 
• 
Large Plant Selection ·Complete Wedding Services 

• 
Plant Rental ·Balloons ·Deliveries Worldwide 



I. 
·-· 
I 
'" 
I *Not good with any othet' offer I I . 1
525N. &:ld~ • 232-117'( .J.
L 
----------------.... ­
Around the Corner from Sam's Club 
271-1SUN

SunStudio 
Area's Newest & Friendliest Salon ~-MaBt' , 
foronly$35°0 

~$1-oFF ANYFoOD IteM $1 ofF~ 
--·-~ --_ I 

....... 
HACIENDA: 
MEXICAN RESTAURANT• 
I

GRAPE ROAD LOCATION ONLY! EXPIRES 6, 195 
--~------..1
-J.------~-;il] 
~ 
~;SO%OFf1 
any Food 1 Purchase! 
1

~ ID$5".11ot redeemable fur cash. Umlt One. &plnls Dec. 31, 19115. 
1ft~ 4NII In campus Shoppes Plala, 1827 S.R. 23. "77~ I 
,.....--.......--~~L....:l ----­
Short 
on 

Cash? 

~ ~ 
-'IlK '\~ I 
presents •••­
The 
c 
0 
u 
p 
0 N 


!;~ E 

(between Best Buy & Service Merchandi:;.. I
1.:: ..~~ ............... ... 
BRUN(fS----~ 
P  I  Z  Z  A  I  
•18" one item pizza for $8°0 (dine-in only at Bruno's South Sun-Thurs)  I  
•Lunch buffet Mon-Fri 11:00-1:30 All you can Eat for $5°0 !  I  

. ..I 


T R A D E 
SECRET 


STORE: ln-5264 

A PURCHASE OF 
SALON: lB-5165 

$1CJX> ORMORE 
GOOD ATUNMRSITY PARK MALL ONLY EXPIRES 
soc 
OFF
52238 US 31 North South Bend, IN 46637 the one and Coupon good only at Dairy Queen Only 
North. Not good with any other 
BLIZZARr 
offer. Umit 2. Expires 5/31/95. 
VIEWPOINT 
page 12 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucas Managing Editor Business Manager Suzanne Fry Joseph Riley 
News Editor ....... : ........................ David Tyler Advertising Manager........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor.................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ....................... Ryan Malayter Sports Editor............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor.................................. Rob Finch Observer Marketing Directo~ .......... Pere Coleman Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors~ and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and £O all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
• IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD 
Wednesday, April 19, 1995 


Affirmative Action equalizes opportunity for all 
Part 1: Affirmative Action be accepted if they are qualified and this day, he still watches them with the 
Peter Jennings is talking about it. And should be judged accordingly." True, I same enthusiasm he did as a child. I got so are Oprah and Donahue. Geraldo, can agree with that, but this is under my interest in science and math from Montel Williams, Ricki Lake and Sally the assumption that everyone is coming watching PBS, and it helped me get to Jesse Raphael are talking about it, too. from the same level of opportunity and where I am today. Poor family's need Everyone from President Clinton to that simply is not the case. It doesn't this kind of thing. Show's like "Bill Nye Mayor Daly; Newt Gingrich to Jesse take a genius to see that. You simply The Science Guy", "Seasame Street". "3­Jackson, Louis Farrakhan to Clarence cannot expect an inner-city school kid to 2-1 Contact" and "Beakman's World" Thomas. Everybody's talking about have the same educational background open windows to kids. Affirmative Action. And it's about time as a upper/middle class kid that went to The government wants to cut federal that we talk about it too. What is a country-club high school. It's not fair financial aid to college students. This Affirmative Action? It is the United to take away that inner-city kids oppor­says to me that "if you don't have the States program to overcome the effects tunities in life simply because he and his money to go to college, you just don't 
family, his neighborhood, and his school system didn't have enough money to give him the same education as the 
'Now, I'm not insinuating 
other kid. 

Cristiane 
If you haven't heard, Affirmative that the government Action is all about putting "money" out 
should give women and
of the equation. Money=Power. Power=Money. People with money get minorities everything. That
Likely 

the best of everything. People with 
too is not right nor fair. I 
money decide issues for people without money. And minorities are the ones, think that while we know, as a of past discrimination by giving some who as a unit, don't have that kind of 
society, that there isn't equal
form of preferential treatment to ethnic money. And people with a lot of money 
opportunity for every 
minorities and women. The term is usu­are trying to decide about Affirmative ally applied to those plans that set forth Action, which isn't right. One person American, programs like goals and time tables, required since the who just totally gets on my everlasting 
Affirmative Action are need­
early 19701 of government contractors nerves is Newt Gingrich. He is making it and universities receiving public funds. blatantly clear that people without ed... I think it is incredibly The Equal Employment Opportunities money are getting the very short end of 
important to understand all
Act (1972) set up a commission to the stick. Gingrich wants to cut free enforce such plans. school lunches for kids. The kids that sides of the Affirmative Action The big debate is whether or not need free lunches the most are all the 
issue before you make any
Affirmative Action is reverse discrimina­poor kids of the country. These lunches tion, preferential treatment, and/or are many times the only healthy, nutri­decisions about it.' reverse racism against non-minorities. tious meal that these kids eat a day. Hhmmmm, interesting theory I must Gingrich and the Republican Congress go." People with money and their kids say. I don't think Affirmative Action is want to cut money to Public will go to the best schools, get the best reverse discrimination, that's nonsense Broadcasting. They say they will match educations, will get the best jobs, and and I most certainly don't think it's ever dollar donated. But what about all will have the greatest opportunities. reverse racism. I think it is a way to the families that don't have money to And that my friends, is not fair and it's make opportunities more accessible to donate. I know when me and my broth­not right. minorities and women that without it, ers and sisters were growing up, we Programs such as Affirmative Action minorities and women would be in big watched a lot of PBS because it offered a at least try to take money out of it. I trouble. lot of educational programs about sci­don't think that's all that bad. Of 
Now I have heard all the arguments ence, math and nature that just wasn't course, you come across nonsense like against Affirmative Action. Such as there in school. My older brother used the "White Male Crisis in America" and "Preferential treatment is wrong. All to watch the nature shows like National ridiculous movies like "Falling Down" Americans should have equal opportuni­Geographic, every time they came on where from deep within a place I've ty for all jobs. All students should only and he used to explain it to me. And to never heard of, white males are sudden-

GARRY TRUDEAU 
/..(}()!(, KID, YVU'V&" &OfW&RY RIGHT 7V HAT£M£. /1£/.L., 
I (JJOUUJN7 BtAAJ£ YOU IF YOU JUST TOOK OFF, NEVER 
7VR£TURN! 
FRANKU Y£5. I aJUt.P ~TH£8£/J. 
WUL.., Tfl£ F£1>5ti..ON7!?1Y 

FOR6CT ME 77J 77/K£. c.ARE 
IT. I'VE OFMYa<JV KID. 
(j(JTT{X) 

Mt£H/N­V£ST!i0 
HER£. 
\ 

ly victims. If victimhood means that white males comprise 90+ percent of CEO's in the Fortune 500, make up the vast majority of heads of all government offices, departments. and businesses then I'm drunk. And I don't even drink. If victimhood means that white males are paid more, promoted more, own more than women and minorities com­bined, then pinch me and tell my mama. White males are no more victims than this piece of paper I'm writing this own. I'm not trying to pick on white men, but let's be honest and let's be realistic about this. White males own and run this country, and it doesn't seem cata­strophic to me if other people who make up this country be able to partake and own some of it too. 
Now, I'm not insinuating that the gov­ernment should give women and minori­ties everything. That too is not right nor fair. I think that while we know. as a fact of this society, that there isn't equal opportunity for every American, pro­grams like Affirmative Action are need­ed. But I also think that while we have Affirmative Action, we also need to peti­tion our government for money and aid in making equal opportunities such as better and safer schools in the non-affiu­ent cities and neighborhoods. I think it is incredibly important to understand all sides of the Affirmative Action issue before you make any decisions about it. A lot of people make their decision from raw emotions and some from (God for­bid) the media. The most important thing is to listen and get facts. Education is the key. We need to realize that there is rampant racism and dis­crimination that keeps minorities and women out of the picture. and until we make people like Newt Gingrich realize a reality other than theirs. we will never get anywhere. 
Cristiane J. Likely is a junior computer science major. She lives in Pasquerilla West and can be reached over e-mail at: clikely@artin.helios. nd. edu 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Everybody gets so much 
information all day long that they lose their common sense." 
-Gertrude Stein 

j 
ACCE-NT 
Wednesday, April 19, 1995 page 13 
• BOOKS, BOOKS, BOOKS 
Bestsellers 
t-1 a ~d back Fiction 
1. 
The Celestine Prophecy, James Redfield 

2. 
Our Game, John le Carre 

3. 
Politically Correct Bedtime Stories, James Finn Garner 

4. 
Border Music, Robert 

J. Waller 

5. 
A Dog's Life, Peter Mayle 

6. 
The Glass Lake, Maeve Binchy 

7. 
The Bridges of Madison County, Robert J. Waller 

8. 
Original Sin, P.O. James 

9. 
Moo, Jane Smiley 

1
0. The Fourth Procedure, Stanley Pottinger 


Mass 

Pape~back 
1
. The Chamber, · John Grisham 

2. 
Until You, judith McNaught 

3. 
Tom Clancy's Op Center, Tom Clancy 

4. 
Circle of Friends, Maeve Binchy 

5. 
Daybreak, Belva Plain 

6. 
The Day After Tomorrow, Allan Folsom 

7. 
Decider, Dick Francis 

8. 
Angel, Barbara Taylor Bradford 

9. 
Embraced by the light, Betty j. Eadie 

10. 
Inca Gold, Clive Cussler 


Backstabbing and Blackmail 

By KATIE BAGLEY 
Accent Literary Critic 
T
hink of someone you know, who, no matter how hard you try, always manages to get the better of you. Think of some­one who knows something about you that you really wish they didn't. Think of the most manipu-. 
and courage. There is a lot to both admire and dislike about them for Atwood has successfully created three very real and compelling characters. 
Each of them is unique. Tony is a petite history professor with an obsessive interest in warfare; Roz is a successful, fashion-con­scious businesswoman; and Charis is a quiet, dreamy yoga instruc­tor. They are an unlikely group of friends, to say the least. 
The novel is similar in style to Atwood's previous works. It is deeply psychological; the plot is simple but the characters' thoughts, emotions, and memories are extremely complex. Most of the story is told in the form of long flashbacks, allowing the reader to see and understand each woman's motivations and per­ceptions. 
Atwood's insight into their deepest thoughts and feelings is enor­mous and her ability to clearly communicate these emotions to the reader is extraordinary. Readers cannot help but be drawn into their struggles and sympathize with their problems-especially their problems with Zenia. 
Atwood's use of Zenia's character is almost a stroke of genius. This woman, whom you will love to hate, is used to throw the other women into relief. exposing their innermost selves to your scrutiny. Zenia unerringly finds the chinks in their defenses and worms her way into their lives; when she abandons them, she leaves no trace. By the end of the novel you know no more about 
her than at the beginning, but you 
lative person you know. Think of some­know almost everything about her vic­one you envy, who seems to have it all­tims. looks, brains, and charm. Now imagine The novel is concerned with political one person who fits all of these descrip­and social issues but it never loses its tions. deeply personal focus. Atwood has a 
In Margaret Atwood's new bestseller, profound belief in the importance of in­"The Robber Bride," the one person dividual choices; political movements who has it all is Zenia. She steals men, and social concerns are only significant blackmails, and ruins lives for her own when they affect some particular amusement. And as if that wasn't individual. She writes about people and ­enough, she also comes back from the how they react to and shape their envj­dead. ronment. Whether the novel touches 
"The Robber Bride" is only indirectly on single parenthood, the problems of a about Zenia, however. She is an enig­woman trying to succeed in a male­ma, known only for the havoc she dominated corporate or academic wreaks in other people's lives. The world, sexual abuse, or male-female story is concerned with these other peo­relationships, the tone never becomes ple. Tony, Charis, and Roz are three of preachy nor does the book advance any her former classmates whose only com­ideology. It is satisfied with challenging mon bond is Zenia. She has entered the reader to look at the issues in a new each of their lives. stolen something, way, to step inside another person's life and discarded them. They turn to each and see through a new pair of eyes. other for comfort and even attend the One complaint with the book is that funeral together. the end seems rather contrived and 
Atwood uses Zenia's character to help unrealistic. The story ends very explore and describe the personalities of abruptly and unexpectedly. If you are these three women-their needs, their looking for a fast-paced and realistic weaknesses, their skeletons-in-the-clos­story, this is not it because one unique et as well as their strengths, loyalties, quality of the novel is that plot is sec­
ondary to character. The story never 
drags, nor does it have a problem keep­ing the reader interested, but it is not a strictly realistic novel. The plot is nothing more than a vehicle for exploring the char­acters. allowing Atwood to manipulate the story line to reveal whatever aspects of the women she wishes. 
Despite all this talk about psychology and issues, "The Bobber Bride" is, in the final analysis, an interesting and entertaining book. It is perhaps not as compelling as her previous effort, "The Handmaid's Tale," but it does not disappoint. It has a scoundrel of nearly epic proportions and three unique and realistic women with whom to sympathize. 
Although it is extremely thought-provoking, it is not the kind of book you read expecting to find a deep moral lesson. You read it to listen to three wounded women tell a story about trust and betrayal and about growing up. Their experiences, their mistakes, and their scars end up looking a lot like yours, nearly forcing you to pay attention. 
Inside one man~s dirtY mind 
By BRYCE SEKI 
Accent Literary Critic 
W
ebster's Dictionary defines a fermata to be a prolonga­tion at the discretion of a performer of a musical note, chord; a rest beyond its given time value, also called a hold. Nicholson Baker, author of the controversial "Vox" takes this musical idea and applies it to his eye-opening, or rather eye­popping novel "The Fermata." It is a work full of lurid, lewd, and loose values. Sex, sex, and more sex fills this journey through one man's unique fictional autobiographical sketch. 
Baker introduces us to Arnold Stine, Arno as he likes to be called, a thirty-five-year-old office temp who has an incredible yet unusual talent. By merely snapping his fin­gers he is able to stop time and enter the fermata. Arno, who has had this power since elementary school, stops time in order to live out his voyeuristic sexual fantasies. Undressing women is his favorite pastime while in the "fold." Whether at the office, :.valking down the street, or even driving, Arno stops time and has his own personal peep show with the world as his models. 
Baker displays a very modern and adept writing style and is able to evoke the emotions of his readers. He appeals to all the senses when he writes of Arno's X-rated sexual escapades. Baker is daring in at­tacking such touchy subject matter so intensely. At times he is risque, bordering on offensive. but nonethe­less thought provoking. The images 
The Fermata 
he brings to life will either disgust or excite the reader. Baker's stories are a crazy mix of pop culture and man's baser instincts; he holds 
dllring, truthful mnMiy. nothing back. 
Without a doubt, "The Fermata" is ' a male-oriented book. Quite possi­bly it could be the closest thing to a "just for males" romance novel. Women definitely should stay away unless they are remotely attracted to reading about a peeping tom who uses his unusual power to exploit women. Politically correct people stay away as well for this book ... could not be any further from P.C. 
"The Fermata" is a dive into the sly male imagination. Freud would be proud of Baker in his rendering of testosterone running freely in a 
time-suspended world full of estro­gen. "The Fermata" is much heav­ier than a Tom Clancy government scandal or a grotesque Steven King thriller. It is more thought provok­ing and definitely more offensive; it is meant to disturb. 
Women, weak hearted males, and the elderly should beware. Voyeurs of the world unite, rejoice, praise and take a peep at "The Fermata," ludicrous literature at its finest. 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, April 19, 1995 
•NBA 

Rhodes decides to forgo senior year 
Associated Press 

Three more prominent underclassmen Scotty Thurman of Arkansas, Rodrick Rhodes of Kentucky and Chris Carr of Southern Illinois ­decided on Tuesday to declare for the NBA draft. 
The possibility that any collective bargaining agree­ment reached between the NBA and its players might include a salary cap for rookies has spurred a number of college stars to announce they were coming out. 
Earlier, Joe Smith of Maryland, the college Player of 
-
the Year. Corliss Williamson, who was Thurman's teammate at Arkansas, Gary Trent of Ohio University and Mario Bennett of Arizona State, announced they would pass up their remaining college eligibil­ity for the NBA. 
Players have until 11:59 p.m. May 14 to announce for the draft which is scheduled for June 28 in Toronto. Last year, 20 underclassmen declared and 12 were selected. 
NCAA rules are lenient for basketball players, allowing them to try the draft but give 
them 30 days to return for their remaining college eligibil­ity if they do not sign with an agent or with the team select­ing them. Football players do not have that option. 
Voshon Lenard of Minnesota and Charles Claxton of Georgia were among last year's 20 and both choses to return to school. Lenard was picked by Milwaukee and Claxton by Phoenix and those teams retain their rights through 1996. 
Thurman followed Arkansas roommate Williamson, who an­nounced for the draft last week. They won the NCAA tournament championship a year ago and took the Razorbacks to the final game this season before losing to UCLA. 
Carr. the Missouri Valley Conference Player of the Year and MVP in the conference tournament called the decision difficult. "I feel like the only logical thing for me to do at this time is to test the waters of the NBA," he said. 
If Rhodes goes, Kentucky has a replacement on the way. Ron Mercer, winner of the Naismith Award as the nation's top prep player. 


Rodrick Rhodes heads the list of prominent underclassmen who will test the professional market rather than finish their college careers. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
PLEASE RETURN MY JEAN  AA CRUISE SHIPS HIRING! EARN  Furnished Chicago Sublet: June- Need a lot of extra graduation tick- SOPHOMORES»>  
NOTICES  JACKETII Cropped American Eagle jacket.  BIG$$$+ FREE WORLD TRAVEL (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII.  Aug, Lincoln Park, 2 blks from lake, el. & bus, large 1 bdrm, $550.  ets. x3711  Get involved in the CLASS OF '97 MASS  
Last seen on Tues. 4/11 at Club 23.  ETC.) SUMMER/PERMANENT, NO  Andrea 312-554-5959w. 312-404­ NEED 4 GRAD TICKETS (help my  to be held at 2pm on SUNDAY  
A!JDITIONS-auditions for the ND  I only need Student ID, Detex and  EXPER. NEC. GUIDE. (919)929­ 1863h.  grandparents see me graduate)  April 23rd at the Grotto. We still  
Folk Choir are now being held.  jacket, you can have the rest. Call  4398 ext. C1082  call 4-1207 Eugene  need EUCHARISTIC MINISTERS,  
Open to all current freshman, men  Renee x1435  2 BDRM house $520/mo. + util.  LECTORS, ALTAR SERVERS. and  
and women. SIGN UP NOW call  No questions asked .....  JOB ON CAMPUS! RETREATS  624 Park (Historic District)  I Need extra GRADUATION TIX  even HOM I LISTS. We also need  
631-5242  INTERNATIONAL LOOKING FOR  Grad. Students pref. 232-6079  If you can help please call  vocal and instrumental MUSICIANS  
LOST: My sapphire pendant! It's  RESPONSIBLE PERSON FOR  Ed @ 634-4204.  very soon. So please get involved  
$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS$$  an oval shaped sapphire, surround- SUMMER INSTITUTE JUNE 26­ HOMES FOR RENT  
Are you going to read those things again? I think not. 2323-2342  ed by diamonds, set in gold. I lost it when my necklace  JULY 29. LICENSED DRIVER. DESCRIPTION ON REQUEST.  NEAR CAMPUS 232-2595  PERSONAL  <«call Brian x1058 ASAP.  
Pandora's Bks ND Ave & Howard  broke. walking from Fischer- CALL BABBS 631-4544  
O'hara-Grace to the Law School  SUBLET THIS SUMMER!  ADOPTION -A LOVING CHOICE  •••••••* ** *** ******** ************* ***  
ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAK- Wednesday afternoon, AprilS.  Employment opportunity with an  College Park Condo- Pediatrician and pediatric nurse  Spend some time during AnTostal  
FAST, 35 MIN TO N.D. SPECIAL  PLEASE, PLEASE, PLEASE call  Architectural and Engineering firm  2 females needed I  happily married for seven years are  with underpriviledged kids!  
"OBSERVER" RATE $50/$60,  me at 4-3953 if you've found it -it  located in historic Lafayette, Indiana  272-1538  hoping to share our love with a  
FULL BREAKFAST. THE HOME- has special meaning to me.  for ARCHITECTURAL GRADUATE  child. We love the outdoors. have  The Sophomore Class will be  
SPUN COUNTRY INN, NAPPA­NEE, 219-773-2034.  REWARD offered.  with AutoCAD proficiency and 3 months office experience. Resume  FOR SALE  comfortable home and country lake­side cottage. Will provide secure,  adopting kids for two hours on FRI­DAY APRIL 28 and take them  
Found: a watch with a very idenlifi­ to H.L. Mohler & Associates, P.C.,  loving home with full time mom.  around to play games on the quad  
WORD PROCESSING, TAXES,  able wristband and face. It had  839 Main Street, Lafayette, IN  OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered  Counseling and allowable expens­ and see our campus. Don't be  
GIFTS. 256-6657  been turned in to Security; go there  47901  at $85,900. First floor location.  es. Call Kim or Mike at 1-800-469­ embarrased to go bungee running  
to claim it.  Finished basement with fulllavato­ 0559  and human bowling this year ­ 
DISCLOSURE FRI/SAT 8/1030 Cushing $2  Lost: Set of keys on a soccer key-chain. If you know where they are  FOR RENT  ry. Two bedrooms and two baths on ground level. Lease back to owner through May, 1995. Call  EUROPE $199 o/w CARIBBEAN/MEXICO 189 r/t  adopt a little sib! To sign up or for more information. call Brian x1058. ................................................  
by SUB  please call4-1456.  COLLEGE PARK CONDO:  (616)946-0700.  If you can beat these prices start  
For lease. 2 bd., 2 ba. furnished  your own damn airline!  Told you did I. Reckless is he.  
Breakfast Club  LOST -$MALL BURGUNDY  unit, Alarm system. Avail. June 1st.  Need lurniture for next year? 4  AIR-TECH LTO. 2121219-iOOO  Now, matters are worse.  
Montgomery Theatre  LEATHER CHANGE PURSE- Call: (818)441-1275  seniors @ Turtle have LOTS of  info@ aerotech.com  
8/1030 $1 by SUB  REWARD -CALL 1-5707  NICE furniture! Call for details:  ADOPTION-A choice for you. We  
*******'**'*NOTICE****••••••••••  277-7597  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  have lots of hugs and kisses waiting  
HANDCRAFTED GIFTS from around the world.  WANTED  If you are interested in living at Turtle Creek nex1 year, call Chris  Mac performa475:8 months old, MS  LaFortune Student Center -./ Quick turn around lime!!!  and can offer your baby a life full of love. fun, & opportunity. Backyard  
GLOBAL GIFTS at LaFortune  at 273-1399 as soon as possible.  office,Ciaris,Quicken.Modem. $850  -./ Most orders completed  swings, pets, cousins and much  
I  Student Center, April 25-28  NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ Toyomu:271-7961  within 24 hours  more. Legal and confidential. We're  
Room 1 08 9am-6pm.  Seasonal & full-time employment  Rent NOW for Fall Semester ­ -./ Free pick-up & delivery  easy to talk to-Mary & Chuck 1-800­ 
ILOST & FOUND I  available at National Parks, Forests & Wildlife Preserves. Benefits + bonuses! Call: 1-206-545-4804 ex1.  Completely remodeled home in great student neighborhood. Available to 5 students -5 private  '80 TRIUMPH TR7 Convertible, brown w/ tan interior, great cond. Near NO. $4,500 OBO  to & from departments ..J Caii631-COPY  658-8718 Marketing Club Meeting  
N55843  bedrooms. 2 full baths, washer and  277-2684.  Naked man from 4-11  April 19th 7:00 122 Hayes Healy  
LOST black leather Coach gloves  dryer, large rec loom. Your own  If you want your watch back,  All Marketing Students Welcome.  
lined w/ white shearling lost on Mar  ND/SMC student needed to babysit  personal frat house. CALL NOW  OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered  call X1228  Newly Declared marketing sopho­ 
4 between Oak Hill and campus call  in South Bend for 8 weeks this  277-0636  at $85,900. First floor location.  mores encouraged to attend. FREE  
Amy x4838  summer. Must have excellent refer- Finished basement with fulllavato- There will be a CONFIDENTIAL  PIZZA  
ences, love kids and like to have  NEEDED: 1 bdrm apt to sublease  ry. Two bedrooms and two baths on  support meeting this thursday at  
If anyone found a pair of glasses. in  fun. Call 6-9 pm, 708-524-9386.  or roommate to share apt. this sum- ground level. Lease back to owner  7:30 Call the Q-line for more info  Tupac, Tupac, gargle the night.  
LaFun (although! it could have been  mer call 284-5065  through May, 1995. Call  287-6665 this is to discuss all the  
anywhere on campus) last  SUMMER JOBS  (616)946-0700.  issues of being GAY!  TIM &CHEVY­ 
week ( 4/5 or 4/6) in ablack flip- ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  I'm looking to sublet for the summer  We have to admit, you were good  
open case (by the TV somewhere) I  PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS  at a house or an apartment near  Couches, beds. etc...for sale. All in  SHENANIGANS  the other night. but you won't get  
desperately need them back.  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  campus. Please call Tommaso  great condition. Call Rich 273-2474  Annual Spring Concert  lucky next time. It's true that you  
They are tawny, oval-shaped  NEAR LAKE PLACID  ASAP at 4-1112.  8:00 p.m. Tues .. April 25th  took our hearts. but next time we'll  
frames by prodesign.  1-800-786-8373  1 HARRY CONNICK JR. TIC.  Washington Hall  be the ones screwing the dealer ...  
Finals are coming up and I can't  LIVE IN A GOOD AREA FUR­ SARAH 4-2963.  FREE ADMISSION  Your playmates,  
read withouttheml!l  AA CRUISE SHIPS HIRING! EARN  NISHED HOMES NORTH OF NO  tickets avail. at Lafort. Info. Desk  Karen & Staph  
(219) 272-1778  BIG$$$+ FREE WORLD TRAVEL (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII,  IDEAL FOR 3-7 PEOPLE 2773097  TICKETS  II GEORGE AND THE FREEKS I!  Andrea Salvucci is sexy in the  
Found: Ring on 4th floor Stanford  ETC.) SUMMER/PERMANENT, NO  ROOMMATE NEEDED  Wednesday, April19, 1995  morning!  
during the weekend of April 1st.  EXPER. NEC. GUIDE. (919)929­ Sum 95 share Camp View  4 TIX PAGE/PLANT CHICAGO  Bridget McGuire's Filling Station  
Call Scott at 2003 to claim.  4398 ext. C1082.  235/mo all incl. Non/outdoor  Rosemont Horizon  Come Dance Tonight I  Correction:  
smoker please. Kathleen 4-1359  5th ROW CENTER  !! GEORGE AND THE FREEKS I!  PLS stands for the following:  
Found: faded blue Irish cap. Looks  MBA student looking to rent a  Call w/ best offer  Pretty Lousy at Science, and  
pretty scummy-must be significant.  guitar amp from 4/20 to 4/23.  ATIENTION: Summer School  John x1478  Watch out for the pink painter. I  Passionate, Lusty Sex  
Found at McClure's car wash on  If you play guitar and have an  Students! Sublet our College Park  have had enough of your teasing.  We regret the error.  
Edison and Ironwood. Rudy 233­ amp, please help! Will pay $$$  Condo June 1st-Aug. 1st 2BR.  I NEED 2 tickets for Graduation  You never know what can happen  
4608  for rental. Call jell 4-2943  2BA Call272-6713  Please call PAUL x3580  to a car in a dark parking lot.  I don't know why she hates me.  

Wednesday, April 19, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
•NBA 
Spurs close to clinching NBA's best record 
Associared Press quick slices to the basket and he stomped on the leg of Rose, with 17 points. first team in NBA history to lose Robinson's dunk over Nuggets' who had fallen. 60 or more games in four con­SAN ANTONIO 
center Dikembe Mutombo in Jazz 113, Timberwolves 94 secutive seasons. 
Avery Johnson scored a ca­
the closing minutes finished Pistons 85, Cavaliers 76 reer-high 29 points Tuesday 
Denver. MINNEAPOLIS Mavericks 104, Clippers 91 
night as the San Antonio Spurs 
Mutombo had 17 points and AUBURN HILLS Karl Malone scored 32 points
moved within one win of clinch­
16 rebounds for Denver, which Grant Hill scored 26 points to lead the Utah Jazz to their DALLASing the NBA's best record with is battling Sacramento for the and Allan Houston added 23 to fourth straight win, over the Jamal Mashburn, Roy Tarpley 
a 107-96 victory over the 
last Western Conference playoff help the Detroit Pistons to a vic­Minnesota Timberwolves. and Popeye Jones led the DallasDenver Nuggets. berth and fell into a tie with the tory over the Cleveland David Benoit added 22 points Mavericks to a romp over the
Johnson made 12 of 13 field 
Kings in the loss column. Cavaliers. on 9-for-12 shooting as the Jazz Los Angeles Clippers, keepingg,.oal attempts and had nine as­Bryant Stith and Jalen Rose The Pistons snapped a five­expanded on their club-record their scant playoff hopes alive. 
sists and one turnover in 42 
each had 20 points. game losing streak, while win total with their 57th victo­Dallas went into the gameminutes. David Robinson had In his third game since re­Cleveland lost for the seventh ry. John Stockton had 15 assists facing elimination from the30 points and 10 rebounds as 
turning from a shoulder injury, time in nine games. for Utah. playoff race with any com­the Spurs recovered from an Dennis Rodman had 13 re­Detroit managed just one Minnesota got 18 points from bination of a Denver victoryearly 12-point deficit. 
bounds for the Spurs before point in the quarter's first six Isaiah Rider and 17 from Tom over San Antonio and a MavsThe Nuggets mounted a late being ejected with 1:46 remain­minutes, allowing Cleveland to Gugliotta but lost for the 11th loss. Denver lost 107-96 at Saneharge, cutting the San Antonio ing. He picked up his second pull to 76-69. But the Cavs did­time in 13 games. The Wolves Antonio. The Maverieks trailedlead to one point with 6:54 to technical for shoving Rodney n't get any closer. must win two of their final Denver, holding their eighthplay in the game. But Johnson's Rogers. His first one came after Bobby Phills led Cleveland three games to avoid being the spot in the conference, by three games. 
Mashburn scored 20 points and Tarpley had 19 points and 13 rebounds. Jones contributed
Courses available for general enrollment for the Fall of 1995 that fulfill 
15 points and eight rebounds. Lucious Harris had 14 points. 
the Literature Requirements for the College ofArts & Letters. 
Loy Vaught paced the Clippers with 28 points and 16 rebounds. Eric Piatkowski 
DEPT NO/SEC TITLE PROF CROSSLISTS 
added 13. 
Suns 111, Kings 101
AMST 371101 Nature in America Weber,H.R. ENGL391B 01 
• PHOENIX COAT 460/01 Gender Images Mod Japanese Fie Mikals-Adachi, E ENGL 425A 01; GSC 462 01 
Charles Barkley scored 28 COCT 425/01 Greek Classics in Translation Hunt,J.W. 
points to lead the Phoenix Suns COST 406/01 Modern Arabic Lit. in Translation Amar,J ENGL42901 
to a 111-101 win Tuesday night over the sagging Sacramento Kings, whose playoff chancesENGL 300F/01 Poetry, Gender and Self-Identity Ruwe,D. 
dimmed with a third straight
ENGL 300K/Ol Tradition and 20th Century Writer Roessner, J. 
loss. ENGL 300M/Ol Women Novelists and Male Theorists Winkiel, L. 
Mitch Richmond had 28 ENGL 316G/O 1 20th Century Mex. & Can. Lit. LeMay, A AMST 316E 01; liPS 316G 01 
points for Sacramento, which has lost 18 straight in Phoenix,ENGL 319A/01 Native American Literature Soens, A AMST319E01 and Spud Webb added 20 with ENGL 319A/02 Native American Literature Soens, A AMST319E 02 
seven assists. ENGL 320/01 Dante Werge, T 
ENGL 321A/01 Drama I: Aeschylus to Sheridan Martin, L COTH 321 01 
The loss prevented the Kings, who have not made the playoffs ENGL 334/01 Chivalry, Romance, Spirituality Vasta, E MI 334 01 
since 1985-86, from lying
ENGL 340/01 Shakespeare Lordi, R 
Denver for the Western 
ENGL 350/01 Origins of the Novel Johnson-Roullier, C 
Conference's eighth playoff ENGL 355/01 18th Century Poetry Jemielity, T 
spot. Sacramento remains one ENGL 379E/01 Major African Writers Lyonga, N. AFAM 373 01 
game behind the Nuggets, who lost Tuesday night at SanENGL 384E/OI Afro-Amer Lit & Contemp Issues Peters. E AFAM 384E 01 Antonio, with three games re­ENGL 390C/Ol The Literature of "Bohemia" Strathman, C AMST371 01 
maining for each. ENGL 392B/Ol The American Novel Dougherty,.J AMST398EOI 
Wayman Tisdale, a former King, added 18 for the Suns, GE 301/01 Survey of Medieval German Lit Wimmer, A GE51501;MI581 01 
whose bench outscored the Kings' subs 51-22. Including in
GE 440/01 Goethe and His Time Grauman, A.H. GE 540 01 
that total was 14 points by
GE 475/01 Contemporary German Novel II Lanzinger, K GE 575 01 
Phoenix backup center Dan 
GE 491/01 Evil and the Lie Profit, Vera GE 591 01; LLGR 491 01 Schayes. 
Sanies 113, Lakers 97 
RU 473/01 19th Cent. Russian Literature I Reese-Antsakli RU 495/01 Dostoevsky (in English) Cruise, K 
INGLEWOOD, Calif. If the playoffs started now, LLRO 421/01 Dante I Moevs, C ROIT 421 01; MI 422 01; ENGL 435A 01 
the Seattle SuperSonics would be facing the Los AngelesLLRO 460/01 Outspoken Reading in Lit Jerrez-Farran, C GSC 460 01; ENGL 412F 01 
Lakers. The Lakers are glad there's still a week to go in the ROFR 310/01 Textual Analysis Toumayan,A 
regular season. ROFR 310/02 Textual Analysis MacKenzie, L Playing with a broken left
ROFR 338/01 French Cultural Essays Martin, P 
finger, Gary Payton scored 28ROFR 371/01 Survey of French Literature I Perry,C MI 371 01 
points Tuesday night as the 
ROFR 413/01 Voyages in Literature Douthwaite, J 
Sonics built a 37 -point lead in ROFR 485/01 Rep of Feminine 19th Cent Lit Perry, C GSC 486 01 
the third quarter and coasted to a 113-97 victory, avoiding a ROIT 421/01 Dante I Moevs,C MI 422 01; LLRO 421 01; ENGL 435A 01 
five-game season sweep by the Lakers. "There was no message to ROSP 310/01 Textual Analysis Olivera, W 
be sent," Payton said. "We ROSP 328/01 Survey of Spanish Amer Lit I Anadon, J 
were just playing. We're look­ROSP 328/02 Survey of Spanish Amer Lit I Anadon, J 
ing forward to playing anybody in the playoffs, but we ain'tROSP 401/01 Medieval Spanish Literature Juarez, E MI 402 01 
worried about the playoffs
ROSP 411/01 Golden Age Theater Delgado-Gomez 
right now. We've still got three ROSP 431/01 19th Century Spanish Literature 
games and we've got a good ROSP 450/01 Spanish Short Story Jerrez-Farran, C 
chance at winning the divi­sion." Seattle remained a half­
*Literature courses taught in a foreign language will also satisfy the literature requirement. 
game behind Phoenix for the Pacific Division lead. Last season, Seattle swept all 
If students have questions about courses not listed here, they should come to the Office of Undergraduate Studic~ ::1 
five meetings with the Lakers. 
101 0'Shaughnessy. 


--~-----~~ ~~----------~---~ 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, April 19, 1995 
....
Wednesday, Aprill9
Asian Culture is more than egg rolls & Karate kicks! 
Find out how much more! 

4:00-6:00 PM Prepare yourself for a Multicultural World! 
Parking Lot South of the Joyce Center 
Experience another culture without ever leaving 
Equipment Provided 
South Bend! 

Advance Registration at RecSports Required $5.00Fee
Take a Class! You'll like it! 
All Levels Welcome 
631-6100 
great scores... 

Kaplan helps you focus your 

great skills... 
MCAT studies and build your 

GOVERNMENT 
confidence, so you can get G<NI 334 lnt'l Relations 1n East Asta 
Kaplan students get the most a higher score. complete test preparation materials available, including computer-analyzed AMERICAN STUDIES practice tests, home-study materials 
,~ 411 EthniC Not1ons: Stereotypes, 
and a training library. 

LIT,RATURE 
Call: 1-800-KAP-TEST
COAl 4~ Gender Images Mod Japanese F1ct1on (ENGL 425 A, cosr 40~ ArabiC Lit. In franslatlon (Et-GL 429) 
get a higher score 
KAPLAN 
•NFL 

Montana retires from NFL 
By STEVE WILSTEIN 
Associated Press 

SAN FRANCISCO 
Words and emotions and mawkish ceremonies are not Joe Montana's style. 
Neither is quitting. 

Bang him up and he'd bounce back. Give him the ball with a minute left and 90 yards to ne­gotiate and he'd find a way to score. He left lesser mortals to figure out how. 
For two decades, from Notre Dame to the San Francisco 49ers to the Kansas City Chiefs, Montana played with a rare combination of grace and grit that made him not only a four­time Super Bowl champion but one of America's most beloved athletes. 
He could do everything except give up, until now. 
With his wife Jennifer and their four children at his side, with thousands of fans jamming an outdoor plaza to say good­bye on a cool, sunny Tuesday, Montana retired at age 38 in a nationally televised ceremony. 
Looking youthful in a blue suit, his hair tousled by a breeze off San Francisco Bay, Montana thanked the crowd for their support as they chanted, "One more year, one more year... " 
Kansas City Chiefs." 
"I'm still healthy, I'm rela­tively in one piece. At this point, it's time to pull out the golf clubs," he said, pointing out that almost every season for years, people have speculated on his retirement. 
"One year they were going to be right," he said. 
"It definitely felt like it was the right time," he added. "I don't know why, it felt like it was time to move on. I knew the day would have to come sometime, but it was also diffi­cult to admit to myself that it was over." 
Bill Walsh, the coach who guided him and goaded him to greatness, acted as master of ceremonies. Joining them were former Super Bowl teammates John Taylor, Ronnie Lott, Roger Craig, Steve Bono, Dwight Hicks and Dwight Clark, execu­tives from the 49ers and Chiefs, friends and relatives. 
Steve Young, the man who took Montana's job on the 49ers, wasn't invited. But if he felt snubbed, he didn't reveal it. 
"I've had nothing but respect for Joe for years," Young said from his home on the eve of the ceremony. "Our relationship was kind of like an older broth­er, younger brother thing. In the backyard, we'd be com­peting hard, bloodying our noses, fighting for dominance. Look, let's face it, we both wanted the same job. We both wanted to play. We're competi­tors. But when the games came, we were always pulling for each other and working with each other. In all the years we were teammates, we never had an argument or even a cross word between us." 

Calling Montana the greatest quarterback he'd ever seen, Young said the retirement an­nouncement was an occasion to think about what Montana meant to football. 
"It's a time for me to reflect on all those great moments when I was standing on the sidelines with my jaw open, staring at something impossible he'd just done," Young said. ''I'd be completely amazed by the way he could find an open man, or see a crack in the defense. or take the team on some last-minute drive. There was no one who could do that like him, time after time." 
Four NFL championships, three Super Bowl MVPs and an armful of records might be enough to qualify Montana as the best quarterback ever. For Young, Montana's legacy is broader. 
"He taught me more than the nuts and bolts of football," Young said. "He taught me that you can go beyond your per­ceived capabilities and limits. You can go beyond what you or others think you can do. You can push yourself to another level." 
Montana's comebacks from injuries -his medical chart is heavier than his football gear ­

Photo courtesy ofNotre Dame Sports Information 

Former Irish great Joe Montana, who quarterbacked Notre Dame from 1975-78, retired from the NFL yesterday after a two decade long career. 

A few moments earlier, he had formally announced his retirement at a news confer­ence in a nearby hotel. 
Montana, who always had a joke ready even in the tensest moment on the field, told one as he stepped to the podium to say the words he said he thought he'd never say. 
"I guess you all know why I'm here," he said with a smile. "I signed a new contract with the and his escapes from seemingly lost situations gave him a larg­er-than-life image. In person, he has always been quiet and self-effacing, a rather average Joe in size and weight, strength and speed. He found words and emotions difficult to express. On Monday night, at dinner with his wife, agent and several aides to work out final details of the ceremony, Montana was nervous and typically quiet. 
--~~-~--~--------~-~-------­
Wednesday, April 19, 1995 
Topha01 
continued from page 24 
"Coach sat me down and told me that I'd have to be more aggressive in the middle of the line-up," Topham recalls. "I would just have to see the ball and hit it, and not always be looking for the perfect pitch." 
The adjustment from patient hitter to more of a free-swinger was a difficult one for Topham, who had always prided himself on his selective eye. In fact, Topham's 63 walks in 1994 is the Notre Dame all-time single season mark for bases on balls. The 51 free passes he took in 1993 is third on the all-time list. 
This year, Topham's walks are down to 23 and his strike­outs are up. Last season, Topham fanned just 37 times. Already at 32 in 1995, Topham will likely approach the 50 strikeouts he posted his fresh­man season. 
But Mainieri and Topham accept this as a consequence of his continued emergence into a slugger. 
"I felt is was important for Hyan to develop into more of an attacking hitter," Mainieri said. "lie has a very selective eye, but he's not going to make it to the major leagues by walk­ing. 
"Hyan always had a lot of p'ower, but for it to develop he really had to go on the attack at 
YURI 
activist wife 
the plate," Mainieri continues. "He needed to just let it all hang out and play aggressive­ly." 
Another key te Topham's increased production this sea­son is simple experience. In three years at Notre Dame, he has started 114 of 119 games. Topham has honed his skills for the past two summers in the Alaska summer leagues, com­peting against some of the best college players in the country. 
"Alaska has been a great opportunity for me," Topham says. ''I've had the chance to play with and against great players." 
Topham also feels Mainieri's philosophy has contributed to his success thus far. 
"The biggest thing is experi­ence, being a year older and having three years playing in college," Topham says. "But coach's philosophy of letting us go out and play has been key, too. 
"I really haven't felt any pres­sure or thought about what I'm going to do or if I'm going to break any records," Topham says. "I try to just go up to the plate real easy, relax and have fun. 
"While I'd definitely like to put myself in a position to be drafted, my dream at the end of the season is to play in the College World Series," Topfiam says. 'Tve already been to the regionals twice and almost made it. I'd love for us to win a championship before I move on." 
•·BASEBALL 
~Irish sweep Dukes in twin bill 
--~ -~--­
The Observer· SPORTS page 17 
Notre Dame 
lineup pounds 
out 27 runs in · . 
Pi} ·.• . 

twO\gam.fs
ByMEGAN McGRATH: , 
Sports Wri~er 
..;,;;.,..;...;.,..,.........._..................._,..._,__........_........__ 
. )ts ~:~,wfully hard to. lose:"a "'}Jaseball game wlt~n your starting pitchers allow Just ~q~.i­
run. ·· ················· But just so visiting Duquesne got the message, Notre Dame scored a total of 27 runs ln their doubleheader Tuesday at Frank Bck Stadium, cruising to n~1 and 16-1 victories. .\? Sophomore . Larry Mohs. started out a bit shaky in game one, With just one out, he walked the bases loaded in the first, However; an unusua\5· 2·3~.2 double play squashed the only Dukes Jhreat of ~he game. · · . . ..·•· The-Irish-(25·~2) responded in the bottom of the frame with five runs, thrt~e of them on a 
triple ·l,i.ii (Jatcher .G  ·  ·  
Restovich. · . ···....·•.·•·  
~.rm  glad.··  ~.o\1,  _·· o  

through/' the junior sl).id. have been struggli.Qg a l). 
KOCHIYAMA 
mother educator humanitarian 

lllllli!l~lllllll!imr..._ is::J i 
\L1lcolm X and the BlJck Liberation Movement --}<1panese American Redress Movement -­International Political Prisoner Rights Movement --Movement Against Anti-Asian Violt'lld'. 

The History and Value of Coalition Building April 19th • 8:00pm • 141 DeBartolo Hall 
--Reception Immediately Following-­
-
·;.....·.(\ ..
.... ..,.;_ 
.
·' ..
1. 
~·~t),,, 
I , '-.J,' 
'• {·· 
;1 ... 

"... when you talk about all the civil rights leaders we have had, you have to include Yuri Kochiyama. She is a legend in her own right." --Atallah Shabazz (daughter of M<1lcolm X) 
Sponsored by: The Office of Multicultlll·al Student Affairs, G~.:rentological R~.:sL·arch Center, Undergraduate Peace Studies Program, Center for Civil & Human Righh. Gender Studies, Department of Sociolo!!: and Univer-,ity Counseling Center. 
recently, but I've tried to stay focused, realize that every at­bat is a new at-bat, and keep it simple at the plate." 
Mohs settled down after the <first inning-, striking out five iV a.nd. walking just two after the 
2I:~ ~: :~~~!:J~h~~: ~i~:~~~ 
the onlfrun of the game was · . unearned~ 
·A torrential downpour causedgameone to be short­ened to five innings, and over !'!:.n hour separated the. two 
·· games as the teams waited for th.e skies to clear, 
Game two was a slightly more competitive affair, for the first three innings. Scott SoUJriann launched his first career home run in the third, a Wind~aided shot to right. 
Sollmann owns a 13 game hitting streak and his hunt sin­gleln the second game of the twin bill was his 17 of the sea· 
·soti,. .The left-fielder was 4-6 with thtee runs scored and two RBI.· 
·· :·; ''lfeellike I've been hitting Jhe. ball well recently," .So~lmann said. "I got a couple oqucky breaks today. On that o'qlet J was expecting a rve'jball and. l got one, and I nk the ~~~~d may have 
helped a little bit." 
The Dukes responded in the top of the fourth with a run on three singles. 
But in the bottom of that inning the Irish broke the game open, tallying seven runs. Rowan Richards got things started with a two-run homer, and later in the inning Mike Amrhein would knock in three with a blast to left·cen· ter. 
Notre Dame would score 
seven more runs in the very 
next inning. Restovich hit a 
two-run dinger, bringing his 
RBI total for the day to six. 
Freshman Dan Stavisky picked up his third Win, lasting five innings and surrendering six hits and one run. Tomorrow Notre Dame hosts Purdue at 7 p.m. Sophomore Darin Schmalz will get the start. 
The Boilermakers topped the 
Irish 5·2 last Wednesday at 
West Lafayette behind a com­
plete game from Chris 
Bloomer. 
"Last week Bloomer pitched a great game," Ma.inieri said. "But I think we will be able to get some runs early and play great defense. I'm looking for­·ward to playing them at 
home." 
•NHl 
Pens edge Rangers 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH 

Ron Francis' second goal of the game late in the third peri­od lifted Pittsburgh over the New York Rangers 6-5 Tuesday night and clinched a playoff spot for the Penguins. 
The Rangers lost despite a five-assist performance by de­fenseman Brian Leetch, which tied a team record, and four as­sists by Mark Messier. Walt Tkaczuk and Rod Gilbert also had five assists in games against Pittsburgh, and the Rangers have had five five­assist games. 
The Penguins qualified for the playoffs for a fifth con­secutive season, a record for the 28-year-old franchise . 
The Haugers have lost their last t:!x games in Pittsburgh since Nov. 25, 1992. 
Whalers 2, Sabres 1 
BUFFALO 

Darren Turcotte's soft wrist shot from the point with 3:14 remaining was enough to boost Hartford over Buffalo. 
Turcotte grabbed the puck near the Buffalo blue line and flipped it between the legs of a screened Dominik Hasek to give Hartford a much-needed victory. 
The win lifted the Whalers into seventh place in the Eastern Conference. 
-

Students $Earn some extra cash$ 
$2o.oo 
Bring Student I.D. 
To: American Biomedical CTR 515 Lincolnway West-South Bend 
Help save a Life 
Hours M-F: 9-6 Sat: 8-5 
234-6010 
Bring this Coupon 


18 yrs. old, bring I.D. with Proof of current address. 
,------~------~---~­
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, April 19, 1995 
• BOOKSTORE BASKET®AU 
Uniforms add color to. tourney 
By TIM SEYMOUR 
Associate Sporn Editor 

For the first time this year, the Bookstore Basketball tournament caught a break. Finally, frigid temperatures and overcast skies opened up a win­dow of opportunity, as the first round continued yesterday amid bright sunshine. 
With the improvement in the weather came an improvement in atmosphere. Fans started to crowd the interesting courts, the number of forfeits dropped, and players were more con­cerned with making pretty plays than staying alive on the slick surfaces. 
Perhaps the most noticeable sign that Bookstore is alive and well was the proliferation of uniforms that dotted the Stepan courts. Some were intimidat­ing, like the oppressive black worn by belligerent team Carnage. Some were mundane, like "The shirt" look adopted by many in hopes of forming conti­nuity. And some were just bizarre. 
Paramount among these lat­ter was the ever-popular Helmet Nightmares II. A group of seniors that decided to make their last attempt at Bookstore a memorable one, the Nightmares donned warpaint on their bare chests to compli­ment hockey headgear, creat­ing a look at once comical and grotesque. Unfortunately, this inspiration was. not enough to propel the Nightmares to victo­ry, as they fell 21-17 to the Young Guns. 
"We had an outstanding time out there," stated Nightmare spokesman Chad Christo­phersen. "It was a definite im­provement over our showing last year. Rich 'Sexual Dynamo' Moore was virtually unstoppable, but he wasn't enough to carry us." 

Of course, those who are used to uniforms are likely to do best in them. That was certainly the case with Hell's Belles, a team of junior SMC varsity players that won a stirring 22-20 victo­ry over Cherry Flavored Pez to become one of the few all female teams to knock off a team of their male counter­parts. 
"It was really a lift to see the crowd get behind us," stated Belles' member Lori Gaddis. "We've been playing together for a while, and played really well today. What girls team wouldn't want to beat a guys team in what's supposed to be their tournament." 
Jennie Taubenheim was the key to the Belles' victory, scor­ing six points including a cru­cial steal and drive near the end to ice the game. 


Rich Moore leads the Helmet Nightmares II on a fast break. Despite their comical garb, the Nightmares lost 21-17 to Young Guns at the Stepan Courts. 
-
... 
Session I-May 18 to June 23 Session II -June 26 to August 3 
There are some good reasons to take classes at Holy Cross College this summer. Perhaps you could benefit from one or both of our summer sessions, each offering a wide variety of quality general education courses. Or maybe our affordable summer tuition rate of $140 per credit hour sounds appealing . 
.Whatever the reason, Holy Cross College summer sessions can offer you the opportunity to use your time more productively during the upcoming summer break. You can take advantage of our exceptionally small classes, dedicated and caring faculty and our convenient location just to the west of the University of Notre Dame campus. And, of course, credit earned is transferrable. 
So why not write or call today for more information about Holy Cross College? Applications for Summer Sessions I and II, as well as for the 1995 Fall Semester, are now being accepted. 
* HOLY CROSS COLLEGE 
Office of Admissions P.O.Box 308 • Notre Dame, IN 46556-0308 
(219) 233-6813, ext. 22 • Fax (219) 233-7427 
©1995 
GREAT TEACHERS' WANTED! 
The nation's leader in test preparation is seeking bright, enthusiastic teachers who are interested in part-time work and excellent pay. If you're a dynamic communicator and you had top scores on the G R E, G MAT, L SAT, M CAT, or SAT you may qualify to teach our highly acclaimed 
Call  programs. Teacher auditions April 24 at 6:30PM. Stacy TODAY at 272-4135 for  will more  be in held formation.  
KAPLAN  
The answer to the test question.  

• Unique and one..-of--a..-kind jewelry • • At Affordable Prices • 
•Getting Engaged? 
•Need a Graduation Gift? 
Stop by or call for an appointment Wed..Fri 10..3 Sat 10.. 1 
*Special J?iscount for ND students 
\..., 

Gray Building w/Red Doors Across from Tracks 
2030 South Bend Ave. 
(219)2 7 3 .. 1041 
Wednesday April 19, 1995 The Observer· SPORTS page 19 
• SOFTBALL 
. 

Irish endure rollercoaster ride over Easter break 
By NEIL ZENDER 
Sports Writer 
Most Notre Dame students wem not happy about resuming the dull grind of classes yester­day. The Irish softball club had the same bitter taste in their mouth last night after losing both ends of a doubleheader at Ohio State. However, the beat­ing at the hands of the Buckeyes was merely another dip in the roller coaster they h.ave been on over Easter Break, though last night's 1-0 and 8-6 defeats to Ohio State are fresh in the 27-13 Irish's minds. 
In the first bill, Terri Kobata, recovering from a strained hip flexor, threw six innings. "It (the hip flexor) felt okay today. I was just really rusty from not pitching in five days. I wasn't throwing particularly hard and nothing was breaking well." 
That said, Kobata only allowed one run. But it wasn't enough. Ginger Bonnell scored the Buckeyes' lone run in the fourth inning on a single by leftfielder Jodi Dolan, giving Ohio State a 1-0 victory. Genice Turley limited the Irish to a scant three hits over seven innings. 
In the second bill, the Irish found out that close only counts in horseshoes and hand grenades, dropping an 8-6 heartbreaker. Notre Dame rapped out ten hits. Sara Hayes was 2 for 4 with a pair of RB!s and Jennifer Giampaolo went 2 for 4. 
Kelly Nichols took a 3-1 lead into the fourth, but then sur­rendered seven runs in her next two and a third innings of work. 
"Kelly did a great job over the last seven games, but she just ran out of gas today," Coach Liz Miller said. 
In fairness to Nichols, of the eight runs scored, only two were earned. Make no mis­take, inopportune errors cost the Irish the game. Notre Dame scored four earned runs. Ohio State scored two. 
The Easter Roller Coaster 
It's not too late! 
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME POM PON SQUAD 
will be holding TRYOUTS, April 23~27, for the 1995~96 squad!! Come to the first clinic ~· Sunday, April 23, I :00~4:00 p.m., ).A.C.C.-Gym l All Notre Dame and Saint Mary's women invited!! Questions? Call Jill 284-5259 or Shloe 4-2777 

Ride began with a dip on Thursday, as the Irish dropped a 15-inning 9-6 marathon to the Loyola Ramblers. Relieving Joy Battersby, Kobata threw almost four strong innings before injuring her hip flexor. She was relieved by Kelly Nichols, who fired six scoreless innings of relief before yielding four runs in the 15th. That and five Notre Dame errors enabled Loyola to slap Nichols with the loss. 
"It was a disappointing loss," Miller said. "We broke down defensively which let Loyola get ahead and we couldn't pull the trigger when we had the chance to put the game away." The Irish put the lead-off hitter on base three times in the extra frames, and each time their trigger finger came up lame. The loss ruined Notre Dame's perfect Midwestern Collegiate Conference record, dropping the Irish to 6-1. 
The roller coaster took an uphill climb against Northern Illinois on Saturday. Kobata and Battersby sat out the dou­bleheader nursing a hip and back, respectively. But fresh­man reliever Kelly Nichols picked up the slack, throwing complete game victories in both games of a doubleheader, improving Notre Dame's MCC record to 8-1. The only run Nichols allowed in thirteen innings of work was unearned in the second inning of game two. 
Lacrosse 
continued from page 24 
"Randy's peaking, our offense is peaking, and we're playing a lot better as a team. The depth we have is also coming through. Our third midfield of Billy Hogan, Tony Reid, and Brian Erickson is doing a great job for us. It's important to have depth later in the year," said Corrigan. 
The third line, not used too often this season, had a great output against Air Force. Hogan put in two goals in the second half, and Reid added one in the first half. 
Again, middie Will Sutton put in his share to the team effort. 
Student Government wants your opinion ! Please give us a hand by telling how you feel about the following topics: 
1.) Our football stadium is expanding! How do you feel about the student section being moved? 
w 

2.) Do you have any ideas concerning revisions to 
rJ1 
tiJ

DuLac? If so, tell us about them! 
~f]]~Lid 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT And of course, any other comments or questions about absolutely any topic are always welcome!!! 
Please address comments to: studegov.l@nd.edu or . 1 x 6283 
"We knew that someone w.as going to have to step up today," Miller said. "And Nick did a fantastic job. She stayed ahead in the count all day and had them off balance the entire game. When she works ahead of hitters, her off-speed pitches are really hard to handle." 
Katie Marten scored the game-winner on Elizabeth Perkins' single in the first bill, while it was Perkins who scored the winner in the second bill, thanks to Kara McMahon's single. 
Over the two game span the Irish outhit the Huskies 22-5. Marten was 4 for 4 and Meghan Murray was 4 for 7. 
On Monday it was a swerve down and a swerve up. Sara Hayes' sixth homer of the year helped the Irish defeat No. 16 Illinois-Chicago 6-2 in the sec­ond game of a doubleheader. The first game was a different story, with the Flames burning the Irish for a 3-1 win. 
With Kobata and Battersby still fighting injuries, Nichols alternated innings with Kara Brandenburger. 
The Flames used three dou­bles and a single in the bottom of the second to slap Nichols with a 3-1 loss. However, the righthander avenged herself in the second contest, upping her record to 4-3 on the season. Notre Dame (9-2 in the MCC) scored three times in the top of the first, when Hayes blasted a three-run shot. 
Sutton increased his season point total to 30, scoring three goals and one assist against the Falcons. 
Alex Cade once again put on a show in the crease. Although the Falcons provided few op­portunities for the freshman, he still amassed eight saves in 41 minutes. Senior Ryan Jewell played the last 19 min­utes of the contest. The two keepers combined to help clear their zone on 16 out of 20 oc­casions. 
"Ryan Jewell has played a big part in the Notre Dame lacrosse program for the last four years. He's won a lot of games for us, and he deserved to play in his last home game," Corrigan said. 
-
RECORD  Polntll  
8-0  220  
10-1  209  
7-2  194  
7-2  184  
7-2  176  
7-1  166  
9·3  149  
6-5  145  
5-4  
9·2  125  
6-3  108  
8·2  97  

'I 

page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, April 19, 1995 
• MEN'S TENNIS 

Irish fall to I.SU, edge BSU 
ByB.J. HOOD 
Sports Writer 

The men's tennis team had what Coach Bob Bayliss called a "reality check" in the week­end match at LSU and Tuesday when it hosted the Tigers. 
Notre Dame had been streak­ing with victories in eleven of its last thirteen matches. However, the Irish had to struggle for a split in the two matches. 
Saturday, eighth rated LSU gave the Irish what Bayliss termed a "good old fashioned nutt kicking," as the Irish were shutout 7-0. At number two singles, Mike Sprouse lost a tough match to Gus Fernandez 3-6, 6-4, 6-2. Jose Leon defeat­ed Jakub Pietrowski at number five singles 7-5, 1-6, 6-2. Both Sprouse and Pietrowski lost leads during the match. 
Pedro Braga defeated Ryan Sirnrne at number one, Ryan ldeta beat Jason Pun at three, Zak Blanchard won at number four over John Jay O'Brien, Eddie Villagomez topped Ron Mencias at number six. All were decided in straight sets. 
The Irish had been playing great doubles, but were unable to win a match. Braga and Blanchard defeated Sprouse and Pun at number one 8-1. Dudley and Ideta beat Steve Flanigan and Pietrowski 8-3 at number two, and Fernandez and Leon topped Sirnrne and O'Brien 8-4. The pair had been undefeated at number three doubles this season. 
"If we learn from it, it will bee the best thing that hap­pened to us all year," Bayliss said of the loss. 
Notre Dame would attempt to bounce back on Tuesday, play­ing host to Ball State. The Irish defeated a Cardinal team that really carne to play 4-3. 
Denny English and Alex Texeira defeated Sprouse and 
-
· BALL needs referees for the Round of 64 and.following. Contact comissioner Mike Hanley at 273-6077 as soon as possible ifinterested. 

Pun at number one doubles, but Flanigan and Pietrowski beat Steve Tallakson and Jeff Boulos and Simme and O'Brien topped Patrick Vizzone and Tony Ortiz to secure the dou­bles point for the Irish. 
Ryan Sirnrne suffered a hip flexor and could not participate in singles play. Mike Sprouse moved to number one singles and defeated English 5-7, 6­3, 7-5. Texeira and Tallakson were victorious over Pun and O'Brien and number two and three singles. Pietrowski carne back to win 6-7, 6-1, 6-3 over Vizzone. Flanigan beat Ortiz at number five, and Hone Mencias fell at number six. 
"Part of me is disappointed that it was that close, but I have a lot of respect for (Ball State coach) Bill Richards," Bayliss said. 

He was also concerned about the loss of Sirnrne. "Someone has to stand up and be counted without Sirnrne. Today we didn't do that." 
This weekend is the MCC championship, and Bayliss may be without five of his top nine players-Sirnrne, Flanigan, Horst Dziura, Pun, and Brian Harris. Sirnme and Flanigan are hurt, and the latter three have MCATs. 
Bayliss will be searching for someone to stand up without these key players. Juniors Marco Magnano and "Shan" Chmura, and freshmen Vijay Freeman, Christian Jordan, Danny Rothschild, and Eric Enloe will vie for the spots. 

Courses available for general enrollment for the Fall of 1995 that fulfill the Fine Arts Requirements for the College ofArt & Letters. 
DEPT NO/SEC TITLE 
ARHI 251/01 Art Traditions 1 ARHI 411101 Pre-Columbian Art ARHI 434/01 Romanesque Art ARHI 443/01 Northern Renaissance Painting ARHI 444/01 High Ren/Mannerist Art-Italy ARHI 452/01 British Art ARHI 462/01 20th Cent Art II, 1960-Present 
ARST 121 S/0 1 Drawing I ARST 121 S/02 Drawing I ARST 121S/03 Drawing I ARST 133S/O 1 Painting I ARST 133S/02 Painting I ARST 231 S/0 1 Watercolor I ARST 285S/01 Photography I ARST 285S/02 Photography I ARST 285S/03 Photography I ARST 289S/O 1 Silkscreen I ARST 291 S/0 1 Etching I ARST 293S/01 Lithography Studio 
DESN 111S/01 2-D Foundations DESN 217S/O 1 Visual Dialogue I 
COTH 104/01 COTH 104/02 COTH 105/01 COTH 105/02 COTH 204/01 COTH 204/02 COTH 205/01 COTH 205/02 
ENGL 200/01 ENGL 200/02 ENGL 200/03 ENGL 301/01 ENGL 301/02 ENGL 302/01 
MUS 220/01 MUS 221/01 MUS 223/01 MUS 226/01 Basics of Film & Television Basics of Film & Television Introduction to Theatre Introduction to Theatre Basics of Film & Television Basics of Film & Television Introduction to Theatre Introduction to Theatre 

Intro to Creative Writing Intro to Creative Writing Intro to Creative Writing Fiction Writing Fiction Writing Poetry Writing 
Introduction to Music Introduction to Jazz Intro to Mozart's Operas Introduction to American Music 
PROF  CROSS LISTS  
Rosenberg, C Bradley, D Rosenberg, C Coleman, R Pyne, K Haywood, R  ANTH 41 0 01; ARHI 511 01 ARHI 534 01; MI 467 01; MI 567 01 ARHI 543 01; MI 458 01; MI 558 01 ARHI 544 01; ROIT 544 01 ARHI 552 01; GSC 452 01 ARHI 562 01  
Forman,R Chiantello, A Hoag, J Tomasula,M Kinsey, D  
Hilpert, M Gray, R Lopez, M Dibble, J Chapman, R Dibble, J  COTH 285S 01 COTH 285S 02 COTH 285S 03  
Poole, C Down, P  
Collins, J Radner, H Auerbach, B Donnelly, R Collins, J Radner, H Auerbach, B Donnelly, R  COTH 204 01 COTH20402 COTH 205 01 COTH 205 02 COTH 104 01 COTH 104 02 COTH 105 01 COTH 105 02  
Benedict, M Benedict, M Matthias, J  
Rutledge, C Wiskirchen, G Maloney, P Phillips, J  

If students have questions about courses not listed here, they should come to the Office of Undergraduate Studies in 101 O'Shaughnessy. 
.r----.---------~--------------~----------------------~-------------------------~----~---------------·------------~--------~ 
Wednesday, April 19, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
• TRACK AND fiELD 
Williams qualifies for NCAAs as men cruise 
By MICHAEL DAY 
Sports Writer 
Easter definitely came early for the Notre Dame track and field team this past weekend. Before the bunny could hide its first egg, the squad had regis­tered a strong all around per­formance at the Illinois Track Festival on Saturday. 
Once again, the Irish men dominated the track events against some of the toughest eompetition they have faced to date.. And once again, junior Jeff llojnacki, senior Joe Hoyer, freshman Errol Williams, and sophomore Matt Althoff were leading the way. 
"The guys continue to improve with hard work and added experience," said head coach Joe Piane. "The balance of the squad is ahead of where we expected at this point in the season." 
After starting the season out slowly, Hojnacki has been on a tear the last three meets of the season. On Saturday, the junior runner won the 1500 meter run in a time of 3:52.19 and recorded a first place finish in the 800 meters with a mark of 1:55.48. 
In the 110 meter hurdles, Williams showed why he is con­sidered one of the top freshmen in the nation, winning the event in a time of 13.6. He was the lone .member of the Irish to earn an NCM qualifying time over the weekend. 
"My goal coming in was to qualify for the NCAAs in my first season here," said Williams. ''I'm pleased with my performance so far this season, but I'm not surprised. I knew if I worked hard it would eventu­
• WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Team effort boosts Irish to 14-9 
By DOMINIC AMOROSA Spons Writer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team took its game to the asphalt of the Courtney Tennis Center this weekend and came away with a 9-0 thrashing of Miami {OH) on Saturday and a 6-3 victory over Purdue on Monday. 
"Everyone played real well outdoors," llolyn Lord explained. "The wind made us focus and we used it to our advantage." 
Notre Dame, ranked No. 24 in the country, played without No. 1 singles player Wendy Crabtree on Saturday, but lost only one set all day. Lord won 6-4, 6-2 at first singles, and senior captain Laura Schwab, junior Sherri Vitale, sophomore Erin Gowen and freshman Kelly Olson also posted straight set wins. 
"Every player is different, so playing at no. 1 singles wa:s not too much of an issue," Lord said. 
Against Purdue, the Irish needed three set wins from Vitale and Gowen to secure the 
ADDENDUM 
win. Both Vitale and Gowen lost the first set, but battled back. 
"She started off real well," commented Vitale. "But I knew that if I could stay in there long enough by saving some points, I could come back." 
"We were aware that Purdue was a stronger team than in the past, but we were prepared," Crabtree added. 'There were a lot of close matches and we had a great effort." 
Notre Dame, 14-9 on the sea­son, looks forward to a Sunday match at regional rival Indiana. 
Additional Courses Available for general enrollment for the Fall of 1995 that fulfill the Fine Arts Requirements. 
DEPT  NO/SEC  
ARST ARST AR8T AR8T  149S/01 149S/02 2098/01 2098/02  
ARST ARST AR8T AR8T AR8T ARST AR8T AR8T AR8T  2098/03 2418/01 2438/01 2458/01 2478/01 309S/01 321S/01 325S/01 333S/01  
DESN DESN DESN DESN DESN DESN DESN  218S/01 281S/01 282S/01 3158101 316S/01 319S/01 330S/01  

TITLE 
3-D Foundations 3-D Foundations Ceramics I Ceramics I 
Ceramics I Wood Sculpture Metal Foundry Metal Sculpture I Figure Sculpture Ceramics II Drawing II Figure Drawing Painting II 
Intro to Product Design Graphic Design I Digital Image Making Advertising -Corporate Advertising Brands Typography I Furniture Design I 
PROF 
Collins, A Collins, A Kremer, W Koukhanova, I 
Jablonski, J Bovo,P Choy, C Pierce, S Flanigan, J Jablonski, J 
Flanigan, J Kinsey, D 
Herr,M Poole, C Cunningham, S Beckman, F Beckman, F Sherman, J Herr,M 
If students have questions about courses not listed here, they should come to the Office ofUndergraduate Studies in 101 O'Shaughnessy. 
ally pay off." 
Royer finished second to Hojnacki in the 1500 meters with a mark of 3:56.47. Althoff was also dominant for Notre Dame this weekend, winning the 5000 meter run in a time of 14:50.17. 
After struggling in the early part of the season, the Irish also enjoyed a successful week­end in the field events, led by senior Lamar Justice, who placed first in the triple jump after a leap of 49' 11.25". 
The women also enjoyed a successful afternoon at Illinois on Saturday. Junior Erica Peterson won the 400 meter run in a time of 1:01.97. Senior teammate Kristi Kramer matched her performance in the 3000 meter run, placing first with a time of 10:01.21. 
In the 400 meter run, sopho­more Allison Howard's mark of 
54:71 earned her a second place finish, while freshman Berit Junker placed second in the 800 meter with a mark of 2:11.54. 
Junior Amy Siegal also fin­ished second in the 1500 meter run . 


Happy 21st Birthday 
Laurie 
... Love, Mom and Grampa 
JUNIORS! 

TO LADDER THE CLIMB 
LET 

''Q~~*u~~~_;:n~n ,'h'Yl"::, .,~ ~'""*•~n•'\3~:n:U\a:;u 
SHOW YOU THE WAY! 
COME TO THE WORKSHOP: 
WHEN: 
APRIL 20, 1995 3:30 -5:00 PM WHERE: NOTRE DAME ROOM/LAFORTUNE 
Sponsored II~·: OFFICE OF CAREER AND PLACEI\tENT SERVICES Olivia Williams, Asst. Direetor 
•. 
-



~ Odmgo Har(Dfdng£8.~ 
5804 Grape Rd., Mishawaka 
© Visa U.S.A. Inc. 1995

277-7946 

9 to 8 Sat. 9 to 6 Sun. 11-5 
.....................................................,..................• 
I

It's a steal. 7:00 TONIGHT! I I 
I I

er~W~ I 
I I

,.,,~,_,-.­
I 

I GREAT PRIZES, GREAT FUN, GREAT ACTION! 
I. FREE KOT OOGS!
l I 
NOTRE DAME BASEBALL vs. PURDUE Frank Eck Stadium (on campus) I 
! 
I ---------------------------..················•·• 
Montana 
continued from page 24 
confront this issue. 

Because for all of us, both young and old, Joe Montana is a legend. He could never die, let alone be forced to retire from the game he loves. 
Any game he took part in was never over, no matter the score, and he never made an event boring. Even with a him as the 82nd player. Opponents are glad that he is finally done burning them week after week. 
Tight end Dwight Clark is thanking his stars that Montana found him in the end zone in the 1982 NFC Championship game. For that. Clark's name will eternally be connected with, "The Catch." 
Now think about it. Clark made one big catch. Montana made a career out of throwing clutch passes. Shouldn't it be called "The Pass?" 

Jerry Rice is thankful for spending his six seasons with the "Comeback Kid." Lake Dawson is thankful for his one year with the Master. 
Defensive coordinators are now secure that they will actu­ally be able to sleep at night. Well, maybe that's not com­pletely true. 
Because, any sane fo.otball person would easily choose a loss for his team over a loss of the greatest quarterback from the game of football. 
Betcha ex-Irish coach Dan Devine is glad he finally gave the kid some playing time. He wouldn't have won a national title otherwise. 
Notre Dame students are thankful for the fact that they can say Montana led the Irish to a title in 1977 and that they are walking on the same hal­lowed ground that he waltzed across while still a student. 
Fans are thankful for so much excitement that he pro­vided over the years. 
Montana's retirement will hurt for a while, but the memo­ries will linger. Think of a time you saw Joe Montana play in a game. It's guaranteed he won. 
Imagine a picture of him, with his big grin and cool atti­tude. Then imagine a game you saw him play. 
You'll smile too. 

Montana-led team on top, there was always hope that he could pull off some amazing feat or set some unheard-of record. 
He's adored by San Francisco 49er fans, loved by Kansas City Chief fans and feared by the rest of the league. 
Everyone knows him. No one hates him. 
Maybe what hurts the most is the finality of it all. Michael Jordan retired with something left. There was always hope he'd return. But you don't make a comeback into football when you're nearing 40 and dealing with an ailing back. 
But we shouldn't shed a tear about Montana's retirement. Instead, let's be thankful. Everyone else is. 
The 49ers are thankful that 
he slipped into the third round, 
when they were able to claim 

Whoever Said ''the best things in life are free" probably had a trust fund. 

Itps everywhere -you -vva.nt to be.® 

Wednesday, April 19, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 23 


BILL WATTERSON 

"DEAR C~\..'1\N, 
\.\1.' 1'111 ~RiliNG lt\IS 01-\ MON\)1\i. W\.\f..T \)1\i IS \I I'\OW? \-loW I>.Rf 1\.\11-\GS GOII-\G? 
'IC>\JR Pf..L, C~\..'1\N ." 


SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 
DOGBERT· FINANCIAL ADVISOR 
HEI\t.'S A PICTURE OF YOU LIVING IN A DUI"\P5TER IN TWENTY YEARS 
The Observer 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
1 COULD
BUT IF YOU INVEST OWN A
IN THE "DOGBE.RT f'\ANSION 71 I
DEFE.RRE.D INCOI"\E FUND'' TAKE A LOOK AT WHAT YOU COULD YOU COULD
11

OWN SOMEDAY . OWN A PHOTOGRAPH. 
CROSSWORD 

&1 Zimbabwe's capital &3 Thinner than thin &4 Spouts speeches &5 Russian for "comrade" && Most prudent 
DOWN 
1 More likely 2 Brigham Young 
University site 3 Country ways 41992 
Wimbledon winner 5 Deuce 6 Sandwich meat 7 Last words at Wimbledon a"-Arden" 
9 Greek portico 10 Kleenex, e.g. 11 Function 
47 Regardless 57 Boater or Berman 12 English rule in 30 Sportscaster bowler
India 49 Of RNA 58 Brian, formerly 13 Alfonso's queen 31 "-Love You" 51 Really miffed of Roxy Music 14 Spotted 32 White house 
59 From 21 Come back to 33 Indian time Stalingrad, e.g.: 
52 "0 tempera! 0 
--!" 
1 ife periods Abbr. 53 That is to say 
25 1993 and 1994 34 Hundred-eyed 60 Writer Levin Wimbledon 
creature of myth 55 Checker, 62 Hebrew name 
winner 36 Persistence of 26 Some Eastern 
memory Europeans 39 Age proof 27 Gooseflesh­40 Spade or making Malone 28 Pamphlet 45 Spring time 
maybe meaning "lion" 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $70 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester Name __________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City--------State ____Zip._______ 

CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 
i-19 


Larry Vulmer: the Comb-Over King. 
• OF INTEREST 

;~· Arts and Letters Requirements Look in todny's .Observer for a list of courses which satisfy the Fine Arts and Literature requirements for the College of Arts and Letters. Any questions see an advisor in 101 O'Shaughnessy. Mon.-Fri. Sa.m.-noon and 1-Sp.m. 
It· MENU Notre Dame 
.:'~if((:· 
,NORTII DINING HALL 
''Roast pork loin Chicken strips Italian chicken 
I< Saint Mary's 
M~~t loaf Yankee pot roast Baked haddock 

Have something to say? Use The Observer classifieds 
The Observer 
P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 
SOUTH DINING HALL Baked chicken with horbs Shrimp poppers Cream of BroccolVChill 
... 
-

ACROSS 
1 Smashing pumpkins' sounds 
7 Silent signals 15 Muse of astronomy 16 Ecuadorean 
volcano 17 Lyrical poem 18 Saskatchewan 
city 19 At any time 20 Betel palms 22 Stood 23Web 24 Unexpect~d 
victory 29 Breathing 31 Ecdysiast 32 Public relations 
matter 
35 Devotees: Suffix 37 Royal residence of old Ireland 38 Loser to 4-Down in 1992 and 25-Down in 
1994 41 Fireplace fuel 42 ---Xiaoping 43 Cash in hand, 
e.g. 44 Burdens 46 Tragedy 48 Or, in a musical 
score 49 Crimebuster 50 Actress Rogers 54 Erotic 56 Stick with a 
stick 57 Wavering 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
--r""T"--r:--r:-1 
1
C E L L 0 READ 
.:,+::+=::~-E-1 

~'-+'~+'-'-~--=-+'-:+-=+--f""" 7+.:=-+::ti 8':-t:::+=-.,;,r::e+:=-r.:+~.;,,t.:..:.~~~ti 
.-....:~~ 
-=-+:--+=+=-! 
.=.L::.J.:::~ 
-.. 



SPORTS 
page 24 Wednesday, Aprill9, 1995 
•LACROSSE 

Falcons no match for Irish 

Final homestand a fond memory 
By DAVE TREACY Sports Writer 
What a way to go out. 

First and foremost, the Notre D.ame lacrosse team annihilat­ed Air Force 16-5 in their last home game of the season, achieving the highest score to­tal and highest point differen-· tial of the season. The win puts them one game closer to the 
.... Western Lacrosse League title. Randy Colley, scoring nine points for the second straight game, broke the Irish record for total assists, dishing off four times to bring his career total to 91. Colley now holds the ca­reer records for most total points, goals, and assists. Further, the Irish climbed three spots in the USILA 
lacrosse ratings to No. 11. This is the highest ranking in the history of Notre Dame lacrosse. 
Overall, it was a pretty decent weekend. 
"We played very well. We had little lulls in the end of the second and third quarters, but pretty much dominated the game," said head coach Kevin Corrigan. 
Air Force didn't provide much of a contest for the squad. The Irish led for good with 3:19 gone by in the match. They also scooped up more ground balls than the Falcons, took 40 shots to their 27, and were suc­cessful on all four man-up opportunities. 
The scoring opened, typically, with an unassisted goal from Colley. After Air Force tied it up, Colley dished to attacker Tim Kearney for a score, which tied the Irish record, then put it in again himself 16 seconds later. Colley then broke the record on a dish to fellow fifth­year senior Will Sutton. All told, Colley was involved in the first five Irish scores. 

"It's never been a goal for me to break records. I didn't think much about breaking the record in the last home game. We still have three more games to play. so our goals are still down the road," Colley ex­plained. 
Nevertheless, the Irish have been blessed with an offensive surge in the last couple games. Shots that once missed wide or were stopped by an opposing keeper are finding the back of the net. 
"We're finishing plays much better, and our shooting has improved. Things are really coming together for us as a team," Colley added. 
see LACROSSE I page 19 
• BASEBAll 

Reaching 
.... 
the Goal 
Junior slugger Ryan 
Topham is striving to 
make it to the majors. On 
his way, he hopes 
to lift Notre Dame 
The Observer/Scott Mendenhall 
Topham's powerful swing has resulted in a team-high 15 homers this season, making cel­ebrations at the plate a freauent occurance. 
The Observer/Brian Hardy 

-
• 
Sports Writer 
Ryan Topham has a goal. 
Like thousands of athletes across the country. Topham dreams of being a professional athlete. 
However the sport in which Topham excels, baseball, is one of the toughest to crack. Fewer than five percent of those who play baseball profes­sionally make the big show, the major leagues. 
"Its been my dream all of my life to play major league base­ball," Topham says. "This season my goal has been to put myself in a position to play pro­fessionally." 
The junior right-fielder has worked hard over this season to make himself a viable candi­date for the amateur draft. This hard work has paid off for the Irish as well, as Topham is one of the team's most consis­tent all-around performers. 
His 15 home runs are tops on the squad, and five short df the Notre Dame single season homer record. He also leads the Irish in runs batted in with 
62. According to the latest NCAA standings, Topham was tied for third in RBI and eighth in home runs. 
Topham is more than just a power hitter. He hits for aver­age as well, posting a .362 mark so far. good for fourth on the team. Topham is a major cog of a solid defensive outfield as well. 
But with the help of head coach Paul Mainieri, Topham realized at the beginning of the season that in order to achieve his major league dream, he would have to produce more from his clean-up position. 
see TOPHAM I page 17 
.­
Wednesday, April 19 

Thursday, April 20 Friday, April 21 ND Softball vs. LaSalle (2) 3:30p.m. ND Baseball vs. Purdue 
ND Baseball vs. Valparaiso ND Men's Tennis at MCC 7 p.m. 
7 p.m. Championships Bookstore Basketball begins 2nd round 

• JOCK STRiP 
Time to 
thank the greatest 
Heroes are born. legends are made. And then there's Joe Montana. 
Ask an older person to name 
the greatest quarterback to play the game, they'll answer Joe Montana. Ask a boy to name the 

player he Mike Norbut would most Spons Editor like to emu­late. he'll say Joe Montana. 
The Notre Dame graduate has been a mainstay in fans' hearts for over 15 years, being a hero to the young and pro­viding a reason to watch foot­ball for the old. He made a liv­ing out of making defensive coordinators wake up scream­ing in the night thinking about number 16. Or number 19. 
But Tuesday, football fans' greatest fears were realized. 
The news has been expected for some time, but it still hit like a ton of bricks. 
Montana announced his re­tirement from professional football yesterday afternoon. The country paused for a moment of silence. 
It was a stiff shot of reality for a football community that refused, and still refuses to 
see MONTANA/ page 22 
Saturday, April 22 ND Baseball vs. Illinois-Chicago (2) 12p.m. ND Softball vs. Cleveland State (2) I p.m. ND Lacrosse at Massachusetts I p.m. 










