
I • • I 

Monday, September 18, 1995• Vol. XXVII No. 21 
. TilE INDEPENDENT KIEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
WSJV switches  
TV allegiance  
from ABC to FOX  
By HEATHER COCKS  
News Writer  
If you turn on Channel 28 hoping to catch the  
sr.ore on  Monday Night Football, don't be dis­ 
tressed if you lind the cast of "Melrose Place"  
there instead.  
Effective October 16, WSJV, one of the South  
Bend television stations, switches its afliliation  
from ABC to the FOX Network.  
"FOX has always felt this was a strong area,  
and wanted to work with a full-power station in  
the South Bend/Elkhart market," said WSJV  
Station Manager Kevin Sargent,  
Sargent explained that the major networks  
have recently begun inking longer, more binding  
contracts with their nationwide affiliates. lie at­ 
tributed the flurry of negotiations to a 500-million  
dollar deal  between  FOX  and  New  World  
Communications, in which twelve stations, the  
majority of them tied to CBS, transferred to the  
FOX Network's list of affiliates. The Observer/David Murphy  
Anxious to crack a  market that is one of the  
biggest non-FOX areas in the country, the net­Workers repair Club 23 in anticipation of its opening this weekend. The local bar frequented by students closed last June due  
work entered discussions with WSJV Channel 28 to a fire. The cause of the fire is still unknown.  
that ultimately led to a contract with FOX in lieu  
of a renewal of the previous agreement with ABC. Club 23 prepares to reopen  
Sargent clarified that the transaction did not  
involve a change in ownership of the station itself.  
Does this mean that Notre Dame students can no longer watch television shows broadcast on ABC, most notably the Fighting Irish away foot­ball games'? "Not at all," assures Buzz Mathesius, vice-presi­dent and director of Affiliate Operations at ABC's New York headquarters. "Our programs will still be available to viewers in the affected area." Unfortunately, there are few comparable alter­natives to Channel 28 in the vicinity. The transfer of affiliation, deemed "very rare" by Sargent, is considered a coup due to the pres­ence of only three full-power stations in South Bend. Their broadcast radius is estimated as being at least twice that of the smaller local sta­tions upon which ABC must rely. see WSJV/ page 4  By JAMIE HEISLER Assistant News Ediwr The cause of the fire that gutted a portion of Club 23 last June remains undetermined according to South Bend Fire Inspector Richard Fogle. The club, which is located at the corner of Notre Dame Avenue and South Bend Avenue, hopes to reopen a portion of the building for business this weekend, in order to coincide with the Texas game. On the night of the fire, the bar closed at 3 a.m. as usual. At 3:53 a.m., the fire department and police  responded to an all purpose alarm at the club. Upon their arrival, fire­fighters discovered a fire that was burning in the back pool room of the club and that was quickly spreading. The fire department's speed of response prevented further damage to the building, however. "They were very quick. If they were live minutes later, the whole place would have burned down," said building owner Mehmoud Hussein. The fire department extinguished the fire which by that time had destroyed the interior of the pool room and. had begun to spread through the ceiling to the apartment  above on the second floor of the building. While the fire was contained in the back room for the most part, a majority of the interior of the build­ing suffered damage to some extent, The front room, where the bar was located, received both smoke dam­age and water damage which result­ed from the measures used by the firefighters to extinguish the fire. The apartment above the club, which contained some furnishings, was unoccupied at the time of the fire, and it also suffered fire damage. see CLUB/ page 4  

Gootblatt to speak on dating 
Issues about sex, 
marriagP., family 


to be addressed 
By PEGGY LENCZEWSKI Saint Mary's News Editor 
It's the "All You Ever Wanted to Know About Sex, But Were Afraid to Ask," for the intelli­gent, relationship minded per­

Ellen Gootblatt will speak to students about relationships. She returns
son of the '90's. 

for a fourth time to Saint Mary's on September 19. 
Ellen Gootblatt, nationally recognized relationship lec­She feels that people some-will?" and "Why is it that turer, will stage her fourth re­times enter relationships under women overlook Mr. Nice Guy turn to Saint Mary's on Tues­poor circumstances to avoid for Mr. Kick in the Teeth?" are day, September 19. loneliness. "People are terri-two of the most popular. 
Gootblatt plans to touch on is­fled of being alone, and they're Gootblatt, who holds a grad­sues of sexuality, marriage, ca­terrified of the unknown entity, uate degree in guidance and reer, and family, and will ex­so they stick with the known counselling, began lecuturing plain why people should "take nonsense. twelve years ago in churches their own sweet time," espe­Gootblatt emphasizes the im-and synagogs to her contempo­cially concerning the "first portance of self-image in rela-raries, but found that there was time" in her lecture entitled, tionships: "I want people to "a bitterness, a hardness" "Meeting, Dating, Relating and look inward before they think there. Mating." of reaching outward, I think we She then swithed to lecturing 
Gootblatt has been lecturing need to think of ourselves be-at colleges and universities, intensively for the last five fore we present ourselves to where she saw a great need for years. She claims her motiva­another human being." guidance from "open-minded tion stemed from seeing the Although she speaks all over yet naive students." poor relationship choices peo­the US and Canada to both The lecutre will take place in ple were making. four-year colleges and univer-Carroll Auditorium at 7:30 on "Relationships are a piece of sities as well as community col-Tuesday. Admission is one dol­cake, but you have to make the leges, she says the same ques-lar right decisions for them to tions invariably arise: "Why work," said Gootblatt. doesn't he call when he says he see GOOTBLATTI page 4 

The Observer/David Murphy 
Cooking Up a "W" 
Students barbeque some hamburgers before Notre Dame's blowout of Vanderbilt. 
• INSIDE COLUMN 


And Now-... 
Deep Thoughts 
Whenever I see the 
Jenny Shank 
bearded lady at the cir­
Assistant Production
cus,Ijustlaugh,because 
Editor
really, goatees are more in style now. 
*** 
Don't ever drink anything from a bottle marked with a skull and crossbones, because it belongs to Mr. Skeleton Man, and he'd get really mad if he knew you were drinking his juice. 
*** 
Don't be fooled. Bell bottom jeans don't actually ring when you walk. 
*** 
This university doesn't encourage looting the bookstore. I found this out the hard way. *** 
Did you ever consider that maybe cats are aliens from another planet just waiting for the right moment to take over the world? I didn't either, until Fluffy slipped and told me about the whole thing. 
*** 
When the going gets tough, it's time to see the doctor. That's the first sign of a bladder infection. 
Have you ever considered that what you call "wrong" really might be called "Bob"? Always ask first. 
*** 
You might say it's a case of the pot calling the kettle black, but I think it's more of a burnt-sienna color. 
*** 
Most people think that the songs of birds are sweet and innocent. I bet they'd change !heir minds ifthey saw the lyrics that went with the songs. 
* * * 
If you ever meet an alien from another planet, don't make jokes about taking him to your leader. That sort of thing gets really old after a while. 
*** 
I think it's sad commentary on the state of 
the world today that so many people go 
around with ripped jeans and baseball caps 
on backwards, and NOBODY TELLS THEM. 
*** 
I bet for a philosophy professor, getting 
"Aristotle" tattooed on your arm is like the 
top thing you could do. 
*** 
On a cold day, there's nothing like pulling 
on a nice warm blue sweater that my grand­
mother knitted, because she only made one. 
*** 
You often get frustrated when you give me 
directions-but have you ever stopped to con­
sider that what you call "north" is what I call 
"east"? Come on, let's have a little sensitivi­
ty, please! 
* * * 
· Kids, don't eat any candy that strangers 
give to you. Instead, give it to me. 
*** 
A lot of what professors call "Final Exams" 
are just excuses for them to leave the class­
room and fmish up their poker game. 
*** 
I bet the guy that invented hamburgers gets 
a lot of flack from the cow community. 
*** 
If a leprechaun ever offers you a pot of 
gold, put on some gloves before you take it, 
because who knows where it's been. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News Bill Connelly Kristi Kolski Sports David Bradley Rafacl Gonzalez  Viewpoint Michael O'Hara Production Kira Hutchinson ]ana Bruder Lab Tech  


• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Typhoon Oscar deals eastern Japan a glancing blow 

TOKYO 

One of the most powerful typhoons to hit Japan since World War II dealt the east coast a glancing blow Sunday before veer­ing back out to sea. Two people were killed and three were missing. 
Weather forecasters said Japan "might have suffered heavily" if Typhoon Oscar had struck directly and on a working day. The storm's center never came closer than 60 miles from Tokyo. 
Oscar's winds reached 108 mph, making it comparable to typhoons that killed 1,269 people in 1958 and 5,098 in 1959 in the Tokyo area. 
One man was killed Sunday in a land­slide in Shizuoka, 95 miles west of Tokyo. And in Chiba, just east of Tokyo, a man died after strong winds apparently knocked him into an irrigation reservoir. 
Two people were washed away by high waves from a beach at Oiso, south of Tokyo, and a fisherman was missing after falling into a river in Gifu, 170 miles west of Tokyo, police reported. 
National police said at least 13 people were injured and 46 houses were destroyed or damaged. They said landslides were reported at 29 places and high rains flooded 80 homes. 
"If the typhoon had landed in Japan, it might have suf­fered heavily," said Shingo Osano of the Central Meteorological Agency. He said the highest winds were recorded at Miyakejima Island, 95 miles south of Tokyo. 
East Japan Railways said 598 trains were canceled and 610 others were delayed about an hour in the Tokyo area, inconve­niencing more than 116,000 passengers. Fifty high-speed "bullet" trains linking Tokyo and western Japan were delayed up to 23 minutes, affecting more than 31,000 people. 
Tokyo's main international airport reported 20 international flights canceled and nine flights diverted to western Japan. Almost all domestic flights were canceled in the morning. 
AP Nearby, in one of the coastal areas closest 
to the typhoon's path, Tokyo Disneyland initially opened only attractions considered safe from the storm. It opened fully in the afternoon -with about one­seventh of the usual clientele -after the Meteorological Agency reported that the typhoon had not landed in Japan. 
The hardest-hit areas were islands in the Pacific south of Tokyo. Television footage late Saturday from Hachijo Island, about 150 miles south of the capital, showed plas­tic storefront signs and corrugated metal roofmg strewn on the ground as shopkeepers tried to sweep water from their stores. 
Abortion quieted at GOP convention 
Five Republican presidential con­
tenders lobbied for support among GOP women on Sunday, but only one men­tioned the divisive issue of abortion. Sen. Phil Gramm of Texas won the straw poll at the National Federation of Republican Women convention, fol­lowed by former Tennessee Gov. Lamar Alexander and GOP front-run­ner Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole in third. Alan Keyes was the only candidate to stake out an anti-abortion posi­tion before the convention of GOP women, a group that tends to be more supportive of abortion rights than the overall GOP electorate. "We are human by God's choice, not by the woman's choice," said Keyes. a former Reagan administration official who twice ran in Maryland for the U.S. Senate. "Vote for conscience. Vote for the innocent life of that unborn child." The crowd responded with scattered applause and a few cheers, but not with the robust replies other candidates got when focusing on standard GOP themes such as welfare reform, deficit reduction and anti-crime stances. 

Future of legalized gambling not sure 
ST. LOUIS 

Gambling may or may not be the boon some states believed when they jumped at the chance to legalize it. One of the major conclusions reached when floating-casi­no operators, suppliers and regulators met in St. Louis last week was that for at least 30 months, the industry doesn't expect any more states to approve riverboat casi­nos. Moreover. the possibility looms that one of the six existing riverboat states -Louisiana -could even rescind its legalization, due to voter outrage over political scandals related to gambling. Voters never had a chance to approve the issue in the first place; the governor maneuvered gambling bills through the state Legislature. Concerned since its early days by the possibility of satu­ration, the industry has expe~nced sobering develop­ments since this group met last November. Several casi­nos in Mississippi failed after only nine weeks. 


Miss America dreamed of victory 
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. 
Some things you should know about Miss America Shawntel Smith: Her real first name is LaCricia, it took her four tries to get to the pageant and she's the first redhead to wear the crown in 51 years. One more thing: She won the title Saturday on her 24th birthday. Between now and her next one, she will earn about $250,000 in appearance fees and receive a $40,000 scholarship to go with $12,000 she already won competing in Miss Oklahoma. No wonder she woke up Sunday wondering if it was just another dream like the one she had last week in which she was crowned Miss America 1996. "I had to go over and look at my crown to make sure," said Smith, whose middle name is Shawntel. The 5-foot-3 1/2, blue­eyed Smith is from Muldrew, a town of about 3,200 in eastern Oklahoma. She works as a marketing director for Northeastern State University and plans to earn a mas­ter's in business administration from Oklahoma City 
. University. Smith said her victory would mean much to Oklahomans still recovering from the April 19 bombing. Miss Oregon Miss Emily John Orton was runner-up, fol­lowed by Miss Arkansas Paula Gaye Montgomery, Miss California Tiffany Stoker and Miss Illinois Tracy Hayes. 

March an apology to black women 
WASHINGTON 
National of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan says his planned Million Man March next month is, among other things, a: gesture of apology to black women who often must raise families alone. "This is a march to say ... we (men) are sorry for what we have done," Farrakhan told a stomping, cheering crowd of more than 1,000 that overflowed the Union Temple Baptist Church Sunday night. Some black women leaders had criticized exclu­sion of females from the scheduled Oct. 16 parade in Washington that sponsors hope will energize Africa­American men to rededicate themselves to church. family and community. "We have continued the abuse of women that our slavemasters put in motion," Farrakhan said. "Any male that sins against women sins against God ... Without God you can't be the kind of man who commands the respect of women." 
Monday, Sept. 18 
Accu-Weather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The AccuWeather<~~>forecast for noon, Monday, Sept. 18. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1995 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Prsssure 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 

Allanta 83 61 Dallas 87 70 New O~eans 89 68 Ba~imore 76 57 Denver 54 48 New York 72 58 Boston 68 55 Los Angeles 91 69 Philadelphia 75 57 Chicago 68 50 Miami 92 76 Phoenix 101 76 Columbus .76 50 Milwaukee 64 51 St. Louis 73 60 
Graphics Tom Johannesen Tom Roland 
Katie Kroner 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday mrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of me Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Monday, September 18, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 3 



SMC sponsors poster contest 
By SARAH CORKREAN 
News Writer 
As part of the 3rd annual Multicultural Week (Oct. 2-6), the Office of Multicultural Af­fairs at St. Mary's College is sponsoring a poster contest. 
Based on the theme "Working Together Appreciating Difference," the contest is open to all Saint Mary's students in order to create a piece of art that evokes the "distinctiveness and diversity of the American soci­ety," according to Maricela Ramirez, director of Multicul­tural Affairs for the college. 
"Opening the contest to all students creates the opportu­nity and incentive for all races of the college community to join together and be creative," said Ramirez. 
Multiculturalism plays an important role on campus in increasing the student body's awareness of changes in soci­ety in the 21st century. 
"Through good participation from everyone, the awareness will only increase, and that is one of our goals," said Ramirez. 
An added incentive to the contest is a $500 cash award for the winning poster, as well as cash awards for second, third, and honorable mention. For more specific entry details, contact the Office of Multicul­tural Affairs at Saint Mary Col­lege. 



Pope praises South Africa 
~y BRIAN MURPHY 
Associated Press 
JOHANNESBUHG 
Calling South Africa an inspi­ration to the world, Pope John Paul II appealed Sunday for religious and ethnic warfare to "give way to , dialogue and agreement." 
1 
"A new dawn has risen," the pope said at an outdoor Mass attend-• ed by about Pope John 100,000 peo-Paul II pie, including Nelson Mandela, the nation's first black president. "Become what you want to be, the rain­bow people of God." 
The pontiff urged the Balkans and four African nations -Hwanda, Burundi, Sudan and Algeria.-to follow South Africa's example and settle conflicts through negotiations and elections. 
"Men and women of good will hope that ... violence will give way to dialogue and agreement and the lives of innocent men, women and children will no longer be in danger for reasons which, more often than not, they neither share nor under­stand," said the pope, who refused to visit South Africa under its former apartheid sys­tem. 
Repeating a central theme of his six-day trip that began in Cameroon and ends in Kenya, the pope insisted it is the world's "moral duty" to ease the suffering of Africans. 
A papal document issued Friday asked the clergy to stand up to injustices, but offered no firm guidance on some of the crushing social problems such as overpopula­tion and AIDS. 
The pope said Sunday that women should play a leading role in "humanizing society," and included a plea to prevent abortion. 
"The real problems of Africa have to be tackled," he said from the domed altar on the grounds of a horse track whose luxury clubhouse was once the private domain of white privi­lege. 
The pope took the altar as a choir sang religious and folk songs in Zulu. A Zulu dancer dressed in animals skins and carrying a shield and club per­formed a gyrating dance and was joined by a local priest. 
Many African clergymen have appealed to the pope to permit greater freedom to incorporate traditional customs into the Mass. 
Along with Mandela, former apartheid ruler F.W. de Klerk -now a deputy president in Mandela's Cabinet -and other top government officials at­tended the Mass. Mandela and de Klerk shared the 1993 Nobel Peace Prize. 
The crowd was far smaller than the 400,000 people pre­dicted by local clergy. South Africa is only about 7.5 percent Catholic. 
• STUDENT ACADEMIC COUNCIL 

Council plans events for 

upcoming 'Women's Week' 
By DONNA MIRANDOLA News Writer 
Last night, the St. Mary's Student Academic Council met in Haggar College Center to discuss the upcoming events such as Women's Week, a Lec­ture Series, and their service project for the year. 
Council members decided that the tentative date for the Second Annual Women's Week would be February 5 through 
9. The Wellness Center will be assisting by providing informa­tion about issues such as nutri­tion and overall health. Other possible ideas include a self­defense workshop, a variety show featuring women's poetry and plays, and an areobics night for charity. 
The planned Lecture series will be unique because the fea-


Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Lector Ministry Hour of Recollection 
Tuesday, September 19, 1995 



10:00 p.m. 
All lectors on the campus are invited to participate in this hour of recollection. 
-
(Z\MPUSMINISTRY 

.. The University of Notre Dame Law School's Legal Aid Clinic has received a $52,900 grant to establish a mediation clinic to serve low-income resl(ients'jJ of St. Joseph County. 

np··~L·ll~ Morse, a certified m~qh:ttor Who formerly prac· ticed with the South Bend law firm of Barnes & Thornbur:g. will coordinate the mediation clinic in conjunction with the 
Legal Aid Clinic. 
Morse will be assisted by Bruce Wells, a third•year Notre Dame Law School stu­dent and also a certified mediator.. N· 
The grant to establish the mediation service was pro­vided by the Jessie Ball dl.lPont Religious. Charitable and Educational Fund, a na· tional foundation based in Jaeksonville. Fla. 
The Notre Dame Legal Aid Clinic was established in 1966 to provide free legal assistance to area residents tured speakers will be stu­dents. The students will be sharing their life experiences. 

This year's service project will be a Neighborhood Study Group where council members help local students with their homework and study habits. They feel it is important to the council to do something aca­demically related in the com· munity. 
SAC Co-chair, Racquel Mitchell stated "The Neighbor­hood Study Group is important for the Council to link St. Mary's and the community." 
Mitchell is looking forward to this year's council to be a me­diator between College aca­demic departments and the student body. 
The next meeting will be Oc­tober 1 at 7:45 in Haggar Col­lege Center. 
and to offer clinical legal training to Notre Dame Law School students. 
"Today's Life Choices," the University of Notre Dame's weekly television series on contemporary social issues, has received a 1995 Gabriel Award for religious pro· gramming. 
The series was honored for an episode titled, "The Soul of a Nation: For God and Country ... , " produced by Michael Doyle. The program explored the tensions lnher· ent between democratic ideals and religious beliefs. 
Created in 1965 by the Na· tional Catholic Association for Broadcasters and Communicators, the Gabriel Award recognizes "outstand· ing artistic achievement in a television program or series which entertains and enrich­es the people with a true vision of humanity and a true vision of life." This year's award is the second Gabriel won by "Today's Life Choices." 
Now in its seventh season, "Today's Ufe Choices" airs on 65 PBS stations nationwide as well as on the Faith & Values cable network. 
~o'<..flJ 

irst meeting of the Year is TONIGHT a 6:00Pm in the NO room of LaFortune. 
All are welcome to helP kick off our active Year! 


Hong Kong votes in last election under British 
By JOHN LEICESTER 
Associated Press 
HONG KONG 
Torn between conflicting visions of its future, Hong Kong voted Sunday in its final elec­tion under British rule and appeared to heavily favor pro­democracy candidates who vow defiance toward China, an exit poll showed. 
Shortly after the polls opened, Beijing renewed its threat to annul the election's results when it takes over in July 1997. 
Club 
continued from page 1 
According to Hussein, a mini­mum of one hundred thousand dollars in damage resulted from the fire. 
Reconstruction of the interior has been underway for several weeks and will continue even after the club reopens for busi­ness. When the club reopens, business will be limited to the main room, which will be com­pleted first. Repair to the rest of the buili:li:ilg Will continue for several weeks. 
While the fire investigation continued for several weeks after the fire, they could not determine the source of the fire. According to Fogle, the investigation results were not sufficient to rule out either arson or accidental causes. 
The investigation did deter­mine from the location of the majority of damage that the fire began in the rear of the building. According to Fogle, 
The Observer 
is now hiring for the following paid positions: 
An exit poll broadcast on the ATV and TVB television sta­tions suggested that 16 or 17 of the 20 geographical seats in the 60-seat legislature would go to pro-democracy candidates. Actual results were not expect­ed for several hours, and the 20 seats covered by the poll are only one-third of the legisla­ture. 
Government-owned radio, while cautioning that the Hong Kong University poll was only an indication of the vote, said it suggested a pro-democracy landslide. 
the most probable source of the fire was near a wastebasket or trash can. "There was no indi­cation of smoking material, but this could be the cause," said Fogle. 
Because the fire was termed a "fast fire" by the investiga­tors, arson was considered a possibility. In cases where the fire spreads so rapidly, signs of accelerants such as gasoline are checked for in order to de­termine if arson is in fact the cause. 
As part of the investigation, samples of flooring were taken to check for signs of accelerant, but have not yet returned from the lab. "We also took samples of flooring to check for acceler­ant, but we don't anticipate fmding it," said Fogle. 
Other factors could have con­tributed to the fast spread of the fire, according to Fogle, in­cluding the thin paneling of the interior, but nothing conclusive was found pointing to any one factor. He stated, "As far as we are concerned the investigation on it has closed." 
REAL WORLD 
WITH THE RIGHT CAREER. 
We will be on campus for a presentation September 25 andjor interviews September 26 and 27 
Hewitt Associates -? :. Helping Clie
• 

AtHewitt&sociatesu.c, we've gained a position of leadership in human resources consulting through teamwork, energy and vision. We are resolved to recruit ambitious college graduates with the same 
dedication to hard work 
and success. 
We facilitate the success of 75% of the Fortune 500 through the design, fmancing, communication and administration of their human resource, employee benefit and compensation programs. For a career in the real world of achievement, you're invited to explore consulting opportunities with Hewitt Associates. 
He added that, for the most part, residents of the South Bend and Elkhart communities will notice little difference. 
"The only real inconvenience will be the higher channel numbers," he said, as channel­surfers will be forced to flip a little farther to catch the ABC programs. 
We're seeking ambitious candidates with majors in: 
1 Computer Science 1 Management 
Information Systems I Accounting 1 Economics 
1 Finance 1 Mathematics 1 Related Majors 


Circulation Drivers 
Ifyou have between 11:00 a.m -2:00p.m. open in your schedule and are interested in this paid posi­tion call Joe Riley at 1-5313 
get the InsideTrack on admissions 
Tues., Sept. 26 7·8:30 pm On Campus! 

Space is limited! 1·800·KAP·TEST Call today to reserve your seat 
KAPLAN 
•At selected locatlono. Notall aeminln offered at allocations. 
Darwini on Trial 
YoubetheJudge! 
Come and hear 

Professor of Law, UC Berkeley Author of Danvin on Trial (1993) Reason in the Balance (1995) 
Tonight @ 7:30 Rm. 101 DeBartolo 
also noon 'tilllpm in the Law School Court Room on: 
Jurisprudence and Evolutionism 
Sponsored by: 

The Graduate Student Union Intellectual Life Committee, The Law School, The Centerfor the Philosophy ofReligion and the Maritain Center 
WSVJ 
continued from page 1 
An independent station in Chicago will be called upon to feed a signal to two low-power facilities in Michiana. 
WBND-TV Will become at full -fledged affiliate with ABC pro­gramming available on chan­nels 69 and 58 after October 16. 
ABC feels that, for the moment, this is the best and only option. Stated Mathesius, "We have no other choice. There are no other outlets around. But we won't be frozen out of the area." 

,.........---~---------~-----------------------------~-------­
Monday, September 18, 1995 
The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Sen. Gramm: Powell more Democratic than Republican 
Quebec threatens with secession 
By DAVID CRARY 
political messages." 
Associated Press 
To Canadians elsewhere, the 
common feeling is that Quebec 
MONTREAL already has benefited from spe­
Somehow it's all very cial treatment, notably federal Canadian: a war of secession in permission to impose French as which name-calling substitutes the province's sole official lan­for violence. But civility is 
guage. Jean-Marc Leger, head under strain as Quebec heads 
of a Montreal polling firm, saysfor an independence referen­
QUEBEC, CANADA 

80 percent of Canadians out­
SIZE: 594,860 square miles (1.54

dum in six weeks. 
side Quebec think the province
million square kilometers), Canada's

Quebec's separatists were 
deserves no special treatment. supposed to be floundering by 
largest province, covering area 
equivalent to Britain, France, Spain, 

Within Quebec's French com­now, according to the political 
Italy and the Netherlands combined. 

munity, however, there is virtu­
Would be world's 18th largest country.

wisdom that prevailed earlier 
al unanimity that the provincethis year in the rest of Canada. 
POPULATION: 7 million, almost 

merits a unique status. The
one-quarter of Canada's population.

Instead, opinion polls show a 
split is over whether to seek
French is the first language of 82

virtual dead heat as 4.9 million 
this special status as part of Quebec voters -about 82 per­
percent of Quebeckers; the others are 
English-speaking Canadians, recent 

Canada or as a sovereign cent of them French-speaking 
immigrants, American Indians and Inuits. 

nation. -prepare to cast ballots Oct. 
ECONOMY: Quebec's gross domestic 
product of about $120 billion Is
30. 

"What we're seeking is the
comparable to Austria's. Its natural

"For this first time, English­
power to continue to exist,"
resources Include abundant timber, ore

speaking Canada is realizing 
Simard said at 'Yes' campaignthe 'Yes' side could win," said 
deposlw and hydroelectric capacity. 

headquarters in Montreal. "It's ·
HISTORY: Became French colony in

Monique Simard, a top-ranking 
hard for a majority group on organizer of the independence 
1663. Taken over by British in 1763. 
Incorporated Into Canadian confederation 

this continent to understand. campaign. "The 'No' side had 
In 1B67.1h referendum In 1980, 

Without sovereignty, we're
separadsw lost by a 60-40 margin.

been very confident, and sud­
doomed to be an eternal minor­denly they're realizing that 
.:~~~w 

ity or to disappear." every vote counts." AP The federal government,
For decades, FrenchWhat had been a wearisome Quebeckers have nursed frus­headed by Quebec-born Prime constitutional debate grows trations and struggled with Minister Jean Chretien, insists more passionate by the day. the separatists will lose.
divided loyalties. Most haveDramatic "Oui" and "Non" some fondness for Canada yet Chretien, fond of citing surveys billboards plead for votes. that rank Canada as the
feel themselves victims of bro­

Allegations of racism and trea­world's most livable nation,
ken promises by English-speak­

son multiply. The Canadian dol­asks why anyone would want to
ers who never fully acknowl­

lar plummets in response to leave and refuses to speculate
edged Quebec's distinctive 

rumors of separatist gains. publicly about the conse­
nationhood, rooted in its begin­nings as a colony founded by 

quences of a "Yes" victory. Even the sports world is 
France.

affected. Manitoba native Mike The consequences would
"Canadians and Quebeckers

Keane, newly installed captain probably be shattering.
don't Jive very close to each

of the Montreal Canadiens, kin­Chretien would face pressure to
other, geographically or psychi­

dled a firestorm of outrage resign, and Canada would be
cally," said Desmond Morton,when he casually remarked director of the Institute for forced into awkward negotia­
that he had no need to Jearn tions with Quebec over such
Canadian Studies at Montreal'sFrench because his hockey McGill University. "People here troublesome issues as sharing 
teammates -mostly fran­don't hold the same political the national debt and rearrang­cophones -speak English. ing internal trade. 
values; they don't get the same 

By JIM ABRAMS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Retired Gen. Colin Powell !>'!l.ys his Republican mentors, Honald Reagan and George Bush, were not "sensitized" to racism and failed to truly understand it."The prob­lem with Heagan and Bush and (former Defense Secretary Caspar) Weinberger and their ilk is that they just never knew," Powell says in an interview with The New Yorker, released Sunday. 
The first inklings of the black general's political philosophy have suggested considerable differences with the conserva­tive direction of the Republican Party he may hope to lead. 
Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas, a conservative running for the White House, said Sunday that Powell's 'ideas sound more Democratic than Republican. 
"I would have to say that, in his initial statements about pol­itics, about affirmative action, about gun control, about the pro-life issue, I think his views in some way reflect more the views of the Democratic Party than the Republican Party," Gramm said on NBC's "Meet the Press." 
Powell has just launched a national tour to promote his memoirs and test the waters for a possible presidential cam­paign, either as a Republican 

or an independent.Powell has 
described himself as a fiscal 
conservative with more liberal 
views on such issues as 
affirmative action, gun control 
and abortion rights. 
In the interview with The New Yorker, he said Bush and Reagan were "two of the clos­est people in my life," but adds that on the issue of racism, "they were never sensitized to it. ... This was an area where I found them wanting." 
Powell, who served as nation­al security adviser and chair­man of the Joint Chiefs of Staff during the Reagan and Bush administrations, said he "almost went crazy" reading a Republican newsletter saying affirmative action was no longer needed to combat "vague and ancient wrongs." 
"I said, Vague? Vague? Denny's wouldn't serve four black Secret Service agents guarding the president of the United States." 
He criticized another Re­publican candidate for presi­dent, California Gov. Pete Wilson, for his campaign against affirmative action. "We've got Pete Wilson out there saying that affirmative action is bad because there are eight-tenths of 1 percent more black students in the University of California school system as a result of 15 years of affirmative action." 
Powell told the magazine he didn't want to be elected as the first black American president. "I don't want to be the poster child for the brothers, or for guilty white liberals. That would not be true to the image I have of myself." 
SENIORS ONLY! 
Welcome to the ranks of Notre Dame alumni! Seems a little early, doesn't it? But the time is coming fast when you'll hear "Pomp and Circumstance" once again. This will be a busy year! 
That's why the Notre Dame Alumni Association includes you with the 100,000 graduates who receive The ALUMNI Newsletter. Look for The ALUMNI Newsletter in your mailbox soon. This issue has information on the football game with Navy in Dublin next fall, the Habitat for the Humanity project in California, and lots more. 
You'll be able to take advantage of the many programs and services available to the Notre Dame Family. And the Alumni Association knows that you'll be interested in the more than 230 Notre Dame Clubs located in every part of the country and around the world. 
The ALUMNI Newsletter--Good reading! 

---~-­
Fifth Hurricane blasts islands Clinton threatens to veto 
By KEVIN GALYIN 
Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE AMALIE, U.S. 
Virgin Islands 
The yachts that used to be in the marina are on the highway. The red roofs of houses are strewn on the ground. The duty-free shops where tourists used to look for bargains are fllled with looters. 
Hurricane Marilyn has moved on from St. Thomas, but the Caribbean island that it left behind was a changed place Sunday. 
Electricity, water and phones were out: Air traffic controllers, the windows of their tower blown out by 100-mph winds, used binoculars and radios to guide in relief flights. A quarter of the houses on the island were destroyed, and nearly all the others damaged. 
In Charlotte Amalie, capital of the U.S. Virgin Islands, hun­dreds of people looted stores at a waterfront shopping center. No policemen were in sight."These are all odd shoes, man," said a young man at a Foot Locker store. "I can't fmd something that fits." 
The hurricane, the fourth to hit the Caribbean in as many weeks, tore through the Virgin Islands and eastern Puerto Rico on Saturday, blowing apart homes, tossing parked air­planes into the air and killing as many as nine people. 
Six people were killed on St. thomas. ·home to 51,000 peo­ple. On St. Croix, the most pop­ulous of the Virgin Islands with 55,000 people, two people died. One person was killed in Puerto Rico. 
President Clinton declared 
the U.S. Virgin Islands and 
Puerto Rico disaster areas, 
making them eligible for feder­
al emergency aid. 
Seven military transport 
planes landed Sunday on St. 
T tle 0 llserver 
is now accepting applications for: Accent Film Critics Accent Music Critics Accent Literary Critics 
Please submit one page personal statement to Krista Nannery in 314 LaFortune by 2 p.m. 9122. 
EARN CASH by DONATING 
You could earn: 
$30°0aHer your first plasma donation! 
$15°0  if you donate alone  
+$ 5°0  if you show college 1.0. (first visit)  
+$1 000  per person if you recruit someone and they donate  

$30°0 TOTALI Help Us Save Lives 
Must be 18 years old; proof of current address with photo I. D. COME TO: HOURS: AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL T-F: 9-6 515 LINCOLNWAY WEST SAT: 8-5 SOUTH BEND, IN 46601-1117 234-6010 
Stormy season , 
Marilyn is the fifth hurricane to batter the Caribbean in the past month. 
The paths of Marilyn and her predecessors: 

Source: Accu-Weather Inc. Thomas with the first relief supplies for island residents ­plastic sheeting, water, tele­phone equipment, emergency medical supplies. 
In St. Thomas, many build­ings lost their facades, gaping open like dolls' houses. FEMA at first said half the island's houses were destroyed, but later said a quarter were destroyed and another 75 per­cent damaged. 
Marilyn blew out the windows of St. Thomas' hospital and flooded it, making it virtually unusable. Doctors were trying to care for 49 patients, includ­ing nine critically injured in the storm and four on life-support units with erratic generator power, said Dr. Manuel Guzman. 
Eight patients were evacuat­ed Sunday, all by helicopter because debris blocked the road to the airport. Tin sheets from roofs, uprooted trees and utility poles lined the highway. 
One stretch along the water­front was blocked by two 30-to 40-foot yachts blown onto the road from the bay. The 82-foot 
U.S. Coast Guard cutter Point Ledge teetered on the edge of the pier, 30 feet from the road­way. Another two dozen yachts were beached on the far side of the bay. 
The dead on St. Thomas included three people who reportedly were aboard boats battered by 12-foot-high waves and at least one man apparent­ly crushed by debris, said David Sachs of the Federal Emergency Management Agency. 
Police in Puerto Rico on Sunday found the body of Jack Strickland, a diving instructor from New York City, in a sunken sailboat. Two more were killed by the storm in St. Croix, hospital officials said without elaborating. It was not clear if they were included in the St. Thomas count. 
At least 50 more people were injured or missing in St. Thomas, although FEMA said an earlier report of up to 50 people trapped in a collapsed apartment complex in Charlotte Amalie was incorrect. The five­story buildings were in rubble, but FEMA officials in Washington said Sunday that nobody had been trapped. 
Communications to St. Thomas were out, and FEMA set up two satellite telephones on Sunday. 
What You Need to Know about Law School Before Applying 
September 20 
7:00pm 
Moot Court Room Law Building 
Sponsored by the Prelaw Society & Notre Dame Law Review Students 
House w·elfare reforms 
By RON FOURNIER 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
President Clinton, a recent convert to the Senate welfare reform bill, will fight House Republican attempts to fashion a compromise more to their lik­ing, the White House said Sunday. 
Threatening a veto, White House chief of staff Leon Panetta said, "If this bill moves in any way toward the original House version, that's trouble for this bill." 
The remarks, made in an appearance on CBS's "Face the Nation," came a day after Clinton voiced support for Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole's welfare plan. If the mea­sure is approved as expected Tuesday, House and Senate leaders will meet to work out differences. 
Dole's bill sends federal wel­fare, job training and child care programs to the states in block grants, curbs spending by $70 billion, and ends Aid to Families with Dependent Children and the federal guar­antee of cash assistance. 
Making it more palatable to the administration were votes in the Senate to set aside $8 billion for child care for single mothers on welfare who would be required to work and to establish a $1 billion emer­gency grant fund for states. 
The House-passed version would put a family cap on ben­efits, ban them entirely for mothers younger than 18 with children born out of wedlock and cut spending by $122 bil­lion. 
Clinton's remarks aligned him with Dole against another GOP presidential rival, Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas, and House Speaker Newt Gingrich. 
Gramm, accusing Dole of rep­resenting "business as usual in Washington," said the compro­mise bill must cut money to welfare mothers who have more children. ''I'm going to win on this provision," he pre­dicted. 
"We're either going to make these changes or we're going to lose our country," Gramm said on NBC's "Meet the Press." 
Calling his bill "a radical change in welfare," Dole said it turns aid programs over to the states and lets governors deal with the tough political issues -like a family cap and cutting aid to young mothers. 
"They are not going to let teen-age moms go without food or go without health care," Dole said on ABC's "This Week with David Brinkley." 
Panetta said the adminis­tration deserves credit for forc­ing the harshest measures out of the Senate bill, and said Clinton won't let those propos­als survive in the compromise version. 
"Don't forget this debate started this year with Re­publicans talking about or­phanages and putting teen-age mothers on the street," Panetta said. 
Yet many Democrats are angry at Clinton for backing Dole's bill. Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan, a New York Democrat and the Senate's leading welfare scholar, threat­ened to withhold his support for Clinton in 1996 if he doesn't veto the bill. 
Panetta urged Moynihan to 
"join this battle, rather than 
criticize it." 
Amid progress on welfare, 
the White House and 
Republicans remain bitterly 
divided on Medicare reform. 

Monday, September 18, 1995 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Dollar gets a face lift 
By JAMES RUBIN 
Associated Prrss 
WASfllNGTON 
American currency is about to get a face lift, a high-tech overhaul to thwart counterfeit­ers that will have holders of greenbacks seeing double. 
Two portraits of an Amer­ican historical figure will be on each bill, but you'll have to hold the bill up to the light to see one of them. 
It will be the first distinct new Jooidor u.s. paper money in 66 years, a redesign that some experts consider long overdue given the troublemak­ing possibilities from foreign counterfeiters. 
The changeover will begin early next year with the $100 bill, a favorite of forgers. Existing bills will remain in circulation. 
"We have an interest in pro­tecting the integrity of our cur­rency," said Treasury Under Secretary John Hawke Jr. "As technology develops the poten­tial for more sophisticated counterfeiting, it gives us increasing cause for concern." 
The most visible change will be to shift portraits off center. 
An enlarged portrait of Benjamin Franklin will be moved to the left on the $100 bill, making room for a new watermark engraving. The watermark portrait, visible when the bill is held up to the light, is one of several new security features.Officials said the watermark is extremely difficult to duplicate. 
Eventually, there will be sim­ilar redesigns for the portraits on nearly all smaller denomi­nations -Ulysses S. Grant on the $50 bill, Andrew Jackson on the $20, Alexander Hamilton on the $10, Abraham Lincoln on the $5, and, of course, George Washington on the $1. 
The exception could be the $2 bill, which bears the like­ness of Thomas Jefferson. 
Grad Communities ND 
The Challenge ofAdult Christianity 
An opportunity for graduate and professional students and/or their spouses to share their Christian faith and experience in small community groups and to explore together the challenge ofliving that faith as young adult professional people. 
SUNDAY 24 September 1995 
Fischer Community Center Noon to 2:00p.m. Food and drinks, Information, Beginning 
New groups will be formed. Continuing groups will be on hand to share their experience. 
Reservations and Information: return the Application Form received in the mail and1or call Nicholas Ayo, C.S.C. at 1-5873 or Sharon Harwell at 1-8607 by September 21st. 
-
~ 
INDUS 
US preparing to challenge South Korean auto industry 
By MARTIN CRUTSINGER 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
U.S. automakers, fresh from a bruising battle to boost sales opportunities in Japan, now have their sights set on another foreign competitor -South Korea. 
The fight to lower South Korea's automotive barriers promises a replay of many of the contentious issues raised in the fracas with Japan with like­ly the same results, according to trade experts. 
As with Japan, U.S. nego­tiators may end up with a hazy deal subject to dispute by both sides and universal condemna­tion by other countries of America's bullying tactics, these experts suggested. 
"U.S. negotiators are facing trade fatigue right now," said Greg Mastel of the Economic Strategy Institute, a Washington think tank. "They had a long and bitter campaign to open Japan's auto market and even though it took a lot of resources and time, it wasn't entirely successful." 
But auto industry officials insist that the administration has no choice but to take up the battle against South Korea, which by most accounts has more formidable barriers than Japan. While foreign cars account for just 4.6 percent of Japan's market, they account for an even more minuscule 0.2 percent of the South Korean market. 
"The South Korean market, one of the fastest-growing auto markets in the world, is closed. It is significantly more closed than the Japanese market," says Andrew Card, president of the American Automobile Manufacturers Association, the industry's lobbying arm. 
The auto companies want the United States to haul out the most formidable weapon in its trade arsenal, a Super 301 investigation. Under this process, both sides would have a year to negotiate, but the United States also could slap punitive tariffs of up to 100 percent on Korean produces if the talks fail. 
U.S. Trade Representative Mickey Kantor has until Sept. 27 to decide whether to target South Korea, which is sending a high-level negotiating team to Washington for two days of talks Tuesday and Wednesday in an attempt to reduce ten­sions. 

But Korea's barriers are so substantial, trade experts see little likelihood the dispute can be resolved quickly. They con­tend that Korea uses a variety of tools from import tariffs to penalty taxes on larger engines to more than double the price of many imports. 
In 1994, U.S. automakers sold just 1,897 cars in Korea out of 1.5 million total sales while South Korea automakers shipped 206,625 cars to the United States. 
Korea's penetration of the 
U.S. market still is tiny com­pared to the $40.1 billion in cars and parts Japan sold here last year. 
But what worries Detroit is that South Korea is following the Japanese model, building up a protected market at home that allows its auto companies reap huge profits it can use to undersell competitors in the United States and other over­seas markets. 
"In five years, Korea could pose a bigger problem for world trade than Japan," Ford Motor Co. Chairman Alex Trotman warned recently. 
Some trade experts believe the administration would be wiser to refrain from targeting South Korea under U.S. law and instead make Korea's bar­riers a test case before the new World Trade Organization. 
"It would be a real step for­ward in terms of garnering international support for the United States to take this case before the WTO," said Gary Hutbauer, an economist at the Institute for International Eco­nomics. 
But since the administration's hard-line stand against Japan registered a 73 percent approval rating among voters, another similar trade fight might be welcomed at the White House in an election year. 
The Japanese deal has come under criticism, however, from some of President Clinton's Republican rivals. 
"After 2 1/2 years of ne­gotiations, the final agreement is vague, unenforceable, non­binding -in short, virtually empty," Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole, a GOP contes­tant for president, has com­plained. 
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING 
BANQUET Hors d'oeuvres 6:30pm JACC Concourse September 19th Dinner 7:15pm ND Monogram Room 
Check the SWE or]EC glass casefor the company you will sit with at the banquet Representativesfrom over 30 companies Opportunitiesforfull time employment and summer internships 
INDUSTRY DAY FAIR 11:00am-4:00pm, 1st & 2nd floors of September 20th Fitzpatrick Hall 
Sponsored by ]oint Engineering Council and Society ofWomen Engineers 
Lond•cm $289 Paris $239 Fr;ankfut1 $~99 Madrid $319 Tokyo $449 Rom~ $329 
r....,...,eochw..,rrom Chi'*based on ro<.nd tnp puo•:hose. Rmnct!om r,:>p/f, f.e~~ts not Included and faro:s subject t.o r han•• andtor availabilityC./I to<Uy IOI't>t!Mt wDtldwidc dai/Mtlo,.: 

, I\ I I ' 
Serbs get extra 72 hours to withdraw weaponry 
By MAUD BEELMAN 
Associated Press 
SARAJEVO, Bosnia­
Herzegovina 
Western officials said Sunday the Bosnian Serbs were pulling their big guns away from Sarajevo, and gave the rebels another 72-hour reprieve from the threat of devastating air at­tacks. 
At the same time, the Serbs were trying to fight off an advance by government troops in western Bosnia. Thousands of refugees fleeing the fighting choked the roads leading to the Serb stronghold of Banja Luka. 
International mediators were trying to incorporate the shift­ing battle lines into their plans. They said the government's advance on Banja Luka could draw Serbia,. the major power itt the region, into the fighting. 
"The next few days and hours may determine the fate of the war," said U.S. envoy Richard Holbrooke. 
In a statement issued in Zagreb, Croatia, the U.N. and NATO commanders said they had postponed a deadline of 10 
p.m. (4 p.m. EDT) Sunday because the Serbs were show­ing "initial compliance" with demands to pull artillery and other heavy weapons back at least 12 1/2 miles from Sarajevo. 
"Therefore, we agreed that the suspension of the airstrikes be extended for an additional 72 hours," said a statement by NATO commander Adm. Leighton Smith and U.N. commander Lt. Gen. Bernard Janvier of France. 
The new deadline expires at 
1.0 p.m .. _(4 p,m. EDT) on Wednesday. 
"It is our common judgment that the Bosnian Serbs have shown a substantial start towards withdrawing their heavy weapons beyond the lim­its of the exclusion zone," said the statement. 
It didn't say how many weapons the Serbs withdrew by Sunday night, but Bosnian gov­ernment radio put the figure at about 150. The Serbs were thought to have had around 300 heavy weapons in place. At midnight Saturday, the Serbs had removed 71, according to the United Nations. 
"The additional 72 hours will permit the Bosnian Serbs to completely relocate their heavy weapons beyond the limits of the Sarajevo TEZ (total exclu­sion zone)," the statement said. 
Smith and Janvier noted that 
the Serbs had allowed Sarajevo 
airport to resume operations 
and that roads into the city had 
reopened for use by the United 
Nations and aid agencies. 
They indicated one of their next steps would be to bring together Serb and Bosnian gov­ernment commanders to dis­cuss a cease-fire around Sarajevo. 
The NATO and U.N. comman­
ders warned that if the Serbs 
didn't keep their promise, or 
attacked within the zone 
around Sarajevo, airstrikes 
would resume. 
The commander of Serb 
troops around Sarajevo, Gen. 
Dragomir Milosevic, said that 
by 6:30 p.m. (12:30 p.m. EDT), 
half of the weapons had been 
removed, and the rest would be 
pulled out by Wednesday night. 
In Western Bosnia, Serb 
forces that once seemed invin­
cible melted away before an 
offensive· by troops of the Muslim-led government. 

Bosnian Prime Minister Haris Silajdzic wouldn't say how far government forces might go. But he said he believed that for the first time in the 3 1/2-year­old war, they were in control of the situation. 
AP reporter Jovana Gee, on a tour organized by Bosnian Serb officials, saw about 60 pieces of heavy weaponry near the edge of the 12 1/2-mile zone, head­ing away from Sarajevo. 
The convoys -one heading south and one heading west ­included tanks, howitzers, mor­tars, multibarrel rocket launch­ers, anti-aircraft guns and am­munition. 
"I feel like crying," a Bosnian Serb soldier yelled from atop a departing tank. 
Bosnian Serb leaders resisted previous demands to pull about 300 heavy weapons out of the zone, preferring instead to hunker down under a NATO bombing campaign. 
Holbrooke made a deal with President Slobodan Milosevic of Serbia, who has been negotiat­ing for the Bosnian Serbs, to withdraw only certain large­caliber weapons. That angered the Bosnian government. 
France fears suspect escaped 
By WILLIAM KOLE 
Associated Press 
PARIS 

French authorities trying to catch a terrorist bomber are coming to grips with an unpleasant thought -their No. 1 suspect may have given them the slip. 
Mter beefing up security at border crossings and conduct­ing an astounding 800,000 identity checks, some investi­gators are convinced that Khaled Kelkal, a 24-year-old Algerian, is no longer in France. 
In fact, the intense manhunt for Kelkal -whose finger­prints were on a bomb that failed to explode on high-speed train tracks -may have had the "perverse effect" of dis­tracting the overall probe, one investigator said. 
Police plastered more than 170,000 posters of Kelkal all over France, hoping he would be recognized and captured. 
After six bombings or at~ tempted bombings in as many weeks, the government called out the army. to help fortify borders, guard high-profile targets like Paris' famous mon­uments and try to find Kelkal. 
These measures may prevent more bombings, but they also are hindering the investiga­tion, said the investigator, an anti-terrorist official who spoke on condition of anonymi­ty. 
A police source also con­firmed Sunday that two small bottles of camping gas and some nails were discovered over the weekend in a public toilet in the Porte de Clichy subway station in northwest­ern Paris. 
Bombs made from gas canis­ters crammed with nails and hex nuts have been the hall­mark of all six bombings or attempts. But police appeared to be treating the latest finding as the work of a prankster. 

ATTENTION ALL CLUBS: 
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY MEETING FOR ALL CLUB TREASURERS ON TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19 AT 7:00 IN NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL, ROOM 127 YOU MUST ATTEND THIS MEETING IF YOU WISH TO USE THE TREAURER'S OFFICE THIS YEAR. (IN OTHEER WORDS .-IF YOU WANT TO SPEND ANY MONEY.) ANY QUESTIONS --CALL SHANNON AT 1 --4557 
'l(Jit th ~ ~ Ut a, 'W,(t, S?lte~~··· 
ELLEN GOOTBLAft 
ad~~~~, 
''Meeting, Dating, Relating, and Mating'' 
7~, s~ 19, 1995 
7.·30 fuu, ~"'~ $t.oo 
VIEWPOINT 
Monday, September 18, 1995 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
John Lucas 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Elizabeth Regan Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advenising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor ....••............ Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ...................... Jen Mackowiak Sports Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor •...................••... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor.................................. Rob Finch Observer Marketing Director .......... Pcrc Coleman Saint Ma.ry'o Editor .................... Patti Carson Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either insmution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editot, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. C:ommcnraric"s, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.l@od.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• AND IN THIS CORNER ••• 
The calcium controversy? Pass the moo juice, please 
A
s a newcomer to this campus and to this newspapnr, I feel it is my duty to warn you in advance that I am not from Indiana 
During my first couple of weeks here. I couldn't help but notice the many varying aspects of life in this wonderful­ly heterogeneous pocket of these United States and compare and contrast the lifestyle to that with which I am famil­iar. 
.out of all the striking differences. one similarity jumps out at me -a similarity recently discussed with such vehemence in these same hallowed pages concern­ing the physical, psychological and spiri­tual well-being of Catholic students of all types in South Bend. 
What I am talking about, of course. is milk. 
Now I know that this may come as some­what of a shock to many of you, but I see nothing wrong with drinking milk. I have to admit that I enjoy a good milk on a pretty much regular basis. One of the more serious drawbacks to living here in the Middle American Outback appears to be a more-than-reasonable proliferation of mass-produced fact that, to paraphrase Monty Python, "it's like making love in a canoe," I prefer a much stronger brand of milk, myself. 
U
Foreign milks from northern Europe are the best in terms of quality. although in the past few years smaller dairies have begun to produce some fine, decently-priced two-percent milk. What I wouldn't give for a nice malted milk of German extraction, or a smooth English lowfat milk, or especially the robust flavor of homemade traditional Irish regular cream milk. nfortunately, many Americans, especially students, seem to be easi­ly misled by a few well-placed mass­market milk ads on TV and on extreme­ly large billboards on major interstates. Untold numbers of hats and sweatshirts shamelessly promote skim milk of the worst kind. The self-styled Kings of Milk and their fanciful slogans have managed to successfully milk the popu­lace with "quick fixes" for their individ­ual hypochondriacal sexual weaknesses. It's no wonder that the impressionably young start their careers by turning to milk from the wrong cow. Still, I sup­pose it takes experience with milk to fully appreciate the finer lattes. Solis sacerdotibus, eh? 
Yet when talking about milk omi can­not help but mention the dangers of over-indulgence. After all, it is true that too much of a good thing can be bad, and this certainly applies to milk. Frankly, it comes as no surprise that Notre Dame students enjoy milk frequently. When I was a younger student, I was occa­sionally known to go through a gallon at one sitting. I think the real reason why I began drinking milk in mass quantities 
was simply because I never had access to much milk when I lived at home, and I suspect that many Notre Dame stu­dents fall into the same category. When parents don't allow their children to drink milk at home, it's only natural that the forbidden substance becomes enticing, exotic. There's nothing more provocative than exotic milk. 
A nd enough of this peer pressure ftnonsense. I didn't need a group of fellow teenagers to make me drink too much milk or even to try curdled milk (although I don't really go for the harder stuff any more: too expensive). I was the one who thought I needed milk to be cool to hide my insecurities. Later, after much warranted experimentation, I decided that I liked milk, and I'm not sorry I did. It was my choice. Let's give responsibility where it's due. 
Speaking of responsibility, I'm not sure the University Padres themselves are circumspect. In addition to the well-deserved stereotype of the heavy milk-drinking church leader, the estab­lishment sends the wrong message to its confused Iambs here by permitting bla­tant violations of the milk policy every 
O
. Saturday home game. Not permitting milk inside the stadium ... well, I think that's just asking for a few alumni-spon­sored milk parties to tempt the recently­freed youth of suburbia. And with so much else to do around South Bend on the weekend, to think that students of this campus of brotherly love waste their hard-earned two-day breaks in a milky haze! Now, this is not meant to imply that one deserves or ought to drink milk, or that one has an excuse to drink too much milk. It really is "no big deal" if you drink milk or don't drink milk. Some just don't like milk, and I can understand that. However, I don't think there's anything wrong with milk, per se. Most milk-drinkers learn early how much milk they can safely drink without feeling like a milkshake the next fever­ish morning. f course, if one's family has a history of milk problems, it may be a good idea to find a milk substitute (although I would not recommend soy milk by any means; I've heard that can be as bad for you as coffee). And, naturally, only an idiot drives after a milk binge, as many may know or have heard of tragic milk­related deaths. Above all, there is really no right or wrong way to drink milk. Neither Notre Dame nor its students can be held responsible for milk abuse and its con­sequences; this is a problem of American society, and as long as society endorses milk as a quick way to person­al satisfaction, the big udders of this country will never run dry. 
Matthew Apple (or Dr. Matt, as he is often called by close associates) is a Creative Writing graduate student and can be e-mailed at matthew.t. apple.l@nd. edu. 

Matthew Apple 
GARRY TRUDEAU

• 000NESBURY 
5/R? 5/R, WAKE UP.' 7H& IN5P8C­
lOR. FROM CHIW 
5t/?.V!C&S 15 
H&R£l \ 
H/3 WANT5TO seeAU 7H&AP­
PROVA~S ANI?aRTIFICAT/01-5. PWS, H~WANT$ TO I~RV!W YOUAf3(}(ff§TAFRN6ANI?PRO­C/3{}()!?£~, ANI?CH&a< 7H8FA­C/U7Y FOR. CO/?&" VlaATION5 1 
HON&Y, HAV&YaJ tVa< C{)'l!­5/l?&R&/? U51N65U8­
7/Tte5~ 
I 
I't/...HOW HIM OFF 
A5toN6 A5ICAN. 
\ _,,.,...,. 

• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"one reason I don't drink is that I want to know when I'm having a good time." 
-Lady Nancy Astor 

VIEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, September 18, 1995 
• WINTER OF MY DISCONTENT 
UK lagging behind in ''Third Wave'' ofthe future 
T
LONDON-he world of journalism can be a strange place sometimes. I've spent the better part of the last two years commenting on a variety of controver­sial issues confronting our society. From advocating drug legalization to calling for the abolition of the progres­sive income tax system, 
I've stalked out some pretty radical positions but have failed to generate even a whisper of complaint or protest from our student readership. Then one day I decide to do my best P.J. O'Rourke meets H.L. Mencken impression and do a light-hearted travel piece on London and suddenly I'm receiving virulent and personally derogatory hate mail. I'm having a hard time figuring out whether this speaks more to the universal acceptance of my earlier columns or to Notre Dame's inherent 
Chris 
provinciality. But in any event, it is not my 
Kratovil 
intention to spend this entire col­umn defending myself against the insult-driven attacks of a single pre­tentious Anglophile in rather obvious need of prozac. Instead, I'd like to return to my usual turf and discuss a socio-economic trend of great impor­tance to both American and British Civilization. 
By way of introduction, I'll tell you that I spent this past summer working in Washington for House Majority Leader Dick Armey, Newt Gingrich's chief lieutenant. As you may already be aware, Gingrich -and by extension most House Republicans -is a great admirer and proponent of the theories of "futurist" Alvin Toffler. author of books like "Future Shock". more impor­tantly to this discussion, "The Third Wave". Thus, Toffler is de facto required reading for most GOP congres­sional staffers. 
• AROUND THE WORLD 
Chinese 
•
experience teaches new lessons 
My sudden transplant from Capitol Hill 
to London has naturally led me to try to apply some of the "Toffierian" ideas to the society in which I am now resid­ing. In essence, Toffier and Gingrich (at least when the Speaker is doing the "vision thing"} contend that there are three great "waves" or. "revolutions" in human history to date. 
The first of these was, of course, the Agricultural Revolution which gave rise to towns, trade, and organized society -the state itself. The "Second Wave" was basically the Industrial Revolution and the emergence of industry, mass capitalism, new forms of transport and the growth of cities. The "third wave" is just now beginning to hit and is marked by the move into a post-industrial soci­
ety and the appear­


ance of instant worldwide commu­nications, the ever growing speed of information pro­cessing and distrib­ution, an integrated global economy and the spreading of individual freedom. 
While it sounds 
fairly abstract from the political and business spheres and more the province of academics, "Third Wave Theory" is at the center of many new policy initiatives and corporate decisions within our country. Witness the debates on the regulation of the "information superhighway," the grad­ual convergence of cable TV and telecommunications industry, and the recent struggles to acquire TV networks -a prime information distribution out­let. 
A ll of this correlates to Britain in sev­1"\.eral ways. This damp little island was able to more or less conquer the world because it was the first nation to recognize and embrace the "Second Wave" when it began to emerge. By industrializing before anyone else, by utilizing new business techniques (e.g. "joint stock companies" and mercantil-
I
AGRA, India ­f students in our SAW group had not learned anything about the cultures of Japan, Taiwan or Hong Kong during our time there, they could not help but to observer a plethora of customs unique to mainland China during our stay in the cities of Guangzhou and Beijing. 
Even before we arrived in Guangzhou, or Canton as it is frequently referred to by Westerners, we immediately felt the presence of the world's largest Communist government. 
"On the plane into China, I noticed that instead of having their names as identification, the flight attendants each wore a certain number. This seemed so impersonal and cold," Notre Dame Junior Stephanie Warwag said. 
Indeed, this observation was just the first among many. For instance, soon after arriving, we were brought to a nice restaurant for lunch by our tour guide. It wasn't until mid­way through the meal that someone noticed 
'Although we val­
ued our experi­ences in China, most of us were ready to move on ... For us, leaving the country was not taken for granted. We real­ized that for most, if not all of China's one billion people, leaving as freely as we did is not an option.' 
that he wasn't eating with us. This was strange since our pre­vious guides had. It was at this point that Dr. Pullapilly explained why. He informed us that guides, government employees since all travel agencies are run by the govern­ment, were restricted from eating with the travel groups because topics of conversation would extend beyond what the guides could speak freely of with 
foreigners. After lunch, we encountered more of 
the same. Curious as to what was next ism) and by applying modern pro­duction techniques to their armaments industry the foundation for the "ire upon which the sun never sets" was firmly laid. The lead which Britain established over its European rivals through its early acceptance of the "Second Wave" endured for over a cen­tury. 
T
But all that strong argument can be made that the world does stand on the brink of a new era in technology and informational processing ability rather than raw industry is the determining factor in national strength. The ques­tion then becomes this: How is the United Kingdom preparing to deal with the emergence of this "Third Wave?" here are elements of British society that are already well into this new phase of socio-economic development. For example, the one square mile of the City of London is the world's center international currency exchange. Every day, some $187 billion dollars worth of currency is traded, all by computer and by traders who never see each other or the money they are exchanging. Unlike the New York Stock Exchange and most other similar US Institutions, there is no trading floor and the trading can run 24 hours a day, seven days a week, making it the very model of a "Third Wave" business. 
What's more, England is cellular phone central; 98 percent of the coun­try has available service (much higher than the U.S.} and I often feel like the 80 or so ND students here are the only peo­ple in town without pocket phones. In other words, no one is ever out of touch with the office unless they actively try to be -a definite characteristic of Tof­fler's post-industrial model. 
However, these seem to be the excep­tions rather than the rule, as most of Britain remain mired in the mindset of a rapidly outmoded industrial society. For example, only about 10 percent of Brits own home computers, versus an excess of 40 percent of Americans, and on-line access is much more limited here. 
on the day's agenda, I asked Dr. Pullapilly where we would be heading. 
"}don't know," he said. "The travel 
agency here decides where we go and what we see. They even chose where we ate just now." 
So, along the way to such attractions as the Great Wall, The Ming Tombs, The Forbidden City and Tienamann Square, our bus randomly turned off the road to various souvenir stores, factories and even a medical clinic for a demonstra­tion of holistic 
M
There are only four broadcast TV channels and 12 FM radio stations in London, this vast metropolis has less than half as many broadcast outlets as even a medium sized U.S. city, limiting information dissemination possibilities. Britain is certainly not the sort of 24­hour society that the "Third Wave" modeler visions; most businesses are closed by around 11 p.m. at the latest and 24-hour establishments are practi­cally non-existent. ore importantly, Britain seems to lack the sort of hi-tech oriented companies that will lead the way into the next phase of sauce-economic devel­opment; there is no British equivalent to Microsoft, Intel, or TCI. Further, British research and development efforts are chronically underfunded; discounting military R&D the UK spends less than any of the other G7 nations on finding new technologies. 
The traditional British heavy indus­tries, some of which are still quite prof­itable, have one of the poorest labor management relationships in the devel­oped world, and there is no reason to expect this to change even if a new British hi-tech field does emerge. 
I
Finally, Britain's otherwise charming culture is working against it in the race to surf the "Third Wave." Seemingly a little slower moving and certainly more tradition bound than its North American or Japanese counterparts, the British way of life is suspicious of change (e.g. a law allowing new hours for pubs on Sundays has created a firestorm of con­troversy}. n light of all this, it seems to me unlikely that the United Kingdom will be able to be in the vanguard of the information revolution in the same way that it led the world into the industrial age. Our own country should remem­ber the British experience with the "Second Wave" and march boldly into a rapidly unfolding new era. 
Christopher Kratovil is a junior spend­ing the semester in London. 
S
uddenly, three armed guards swiftly approached the guide and acted upset with him. One grabbed the identi­fication card hanging around his neck and threw it down again. The other two began waving their hands at the crowd of people, angrily motioning at them to leave. After the last picture had been taken, we headed for our bus. We were closely followed by the guards every step of the way. 
"The incident at Tienamann Square 
helped me gain an 

healing. The understanding of eerie thing about the lack of freedom each of these of expression in stops, though, China. What's
Myrnawas that there more, after living were never any there for four days, Chinese citizens f could understand
Maloney
there; only why students tourists. In fact, prote~ted there in we frequently saw 1989," Notre Dame 
the same groups of tourists at one site who we had seen earlier in the day at a different attrac­tion. 
"The fact that the government had complete control over what we saw, where we ate and even what drinks we ordered seemed absolutely stifling to me. It was a feeling I have never expe­rienced before," Notre Dame Senior Carrie Pfaff said. 
Junior Justin Gaul simply labels his observations as "outrageous." 
Aside from everything else, the inci­dent which was most memorable for all of us and which made us aware of the Communist policies, was our visit to Tienamann Square on Sept. 3. 
While gathered for a group photo, a small crowd of Chinese people had gath­ered around us -probably intrigued by 30 rowdy American students. While our tour guide snapped pictures with numerous cameras, the crowd grew larger. 
Junior Megan Dowd said. 
"I'm pleased that we were able to go into Tienamann Square; for a while it looked as though the Women's Conference might change our plans. was supposed to have seen it in 1989, but while my family and I were in Hong Kong, we heard of the student protests and the violence which followed, so we were unable to see it then," Junior Annand Pullapilly said. 
Although we valued our experiences in China, most of us were ready to move on after our four days there. For us, leaving the country was not taken for granted. We realized that for most, if not all of China's one billion people, leaving as freely as we did is not an option. 
Myrna Maloney is on the Semester Around the World program. She attends Saint Mary's College. 

Football 






Irish capture first shutout win since 1993, first victory for Davie 
By MIKE NORBUT Sports Editor 
It was a win for Lou Holtz. 
But it was Bob Davie's day. 
The defensive coordinator and interim head coach was doused with Gatorade and carried otT the field after Notre Dame's 41-0 victory over Vanderbilt Saturday. 
It was the first shutout win since October 9, 1993, when they smothered Pittsburgh 44-0. 
"Last year we gave up too early, thinking we had the team beat," nose tackle Paul Grasmanis said. "We knew we couldn't do that today. Coach Davie has to be so excited right now." 
The coach did smile after the game, but it was a signal of humility. 
"It's been an amazing week and it's obviously been an amazing day," Davie said. "To say that I'm humbled by this would definitely be an understatement. Way too much attention has been brought to me." 
Holtz got the pregame attention when he returned to South Bend about two hours before gametime. He was allowed to come home, but part of the deal was that he had to watch the game from his home. 
"I pictured Lou Holtz at home, and how some­one like him could be at home watching it," Davie said. "I guarantee Beth Holtz had to have him strapped down at home." 
But the Irish coach was there in spirit, making 
see IRISH I page 2 

• Jock Strip 
Total domination rekindles visions of past glories 
S 
aturday was truly a day of returns for Notre Dame football. First, there was Jarvis Edison's fumble return for a touchdown. Then, Brian Magee picked off a wounded duck and 


suddenly turned into Deion  Tim Sherman  
Sanders (without the sillyjewelry and even sillier cash flow of course) and  Associate Sports Editorr  
returned it for 43 yards.  

Even the one-armed and cement-footed Paul Grasmanis got into the act with a seven yard excuse of a fumble return. 
But Saturday may be remembered for a dif­ferent sort of return. The 59,075 in atten­dance witnessed the return of an aggressive, dominating style of play that has long been missing, especially on the hallowed turf of Notre Dame Stadium. 
All too often last season, the Irish would 
see SHERMAN I page 3 \ 



Monday, September 18, 1995 
Davie, Roberts keep focus on having fun 
By MEGAN McGRATH and the rest of Holtz's SportS Writer staff determined to keep things as normal as pos­
There was no big motivating speech, sible for the team. no "win this one for the Gipper" type "In the locker room we drama in the Notre Dame locker room wanted to keep everyone s·aturday· before the Irish took on relaxed and ready to Vanderbilt without head coach Lou have fun," offensive Holtz. coordinator Dave 
Instead, acting head coach Bob Davie Roberts said. "We didn't want everyone to get sky high, so there were no big pep talks. We just told the guys to keep loose." 
There was a letter from Holtz to the squad, expressing his pride and love for the team. 

"The letter told us that we were special," offen­sive tackle Ryan Leahy said. "He told us he knew we could still do the job even without him there." The Observer/Kevin Klau 
Davie said Holtz's letter The braintrust of the Notre Dame offense: Offensive coordinator Dave Roberts mulls things over in the third "showed how much he quarter with quarterback Ron Powlus and receiver Derrick Mayes. 
loves Notre Dame, loves being here and loves tractions this week," Roberts said. "We absent in weeks past. these kids. He has been here for ten wanted to keep things as normal as pos­Hunter Smith was called in to punt years and after all that time to still have sible to offset those distractions." just twice, and the team went for con­that much drive and competitiveness is Judging from Notre Dame's dominat­versions on fourth down three times, all amazing." ing presence on the field Saturday. the successfully.
The letter was not the only reminder staff achieved their goal. "I think with the fourth down plays of Holtz. The coaching staff decided "We wanted to win for him," quarter­the coaches got a lot of encouragement that the best way to handle the head back Ron Powlus said of Holtz. from the sidelines and the stands to gocoach's absence was to behave as if he "But there was no difference in the for it," Powlus said. "It was big for us were present. way we played or prepared. Practice is emotionally to do it, but I don't think 
"I talked on Monday about how any practice no matter who's there." Coach Holtz would have done anything time a leader is not there, the tendency Other players agreed with Powlus. differently." is to let down," said Davie. He stressed "Of course its hard not having coach "We did things just like if he was to his team the importance of doing there," Derrick Mayes said. "But we here," Leahy said. "I would want to tell everything, from practicing to studying, followed the same plan that he would coach that he's picked a great staff, 
The Observer/Kevin Klau just as hard, if not more so, in Holtz's have used." because they were able to pick up the Bob Davie is now 1-0 as Notre Dame's abscence. However, the Irish displayed an slack .~nd carry on with business as interim head coach. "There were so many potential dis-aggressiveness on offense that had been usual. 
Irish 
continued from page 1 
his presence felt with a pregame letter to his team. 
"We knew Coach was very interested," said quarterback Ron Powlus, who fin­ished the day 13-18 for 200 yards. "He just said to stay focused and take care of the business at hand. The other coaches stressed having fun out there." 
Which is easy to do when you open up by scoring on every first half possession and one semi-possession, a special teams play that broke the Commodores' collective back. 
With the Irish leading 17-0 in the sec­ond quarter, Kevin Kopka's kick was received by Corey Chavous, who made a couple of moves before hitting a brick wall named Kurt Belisle. 
Chavous lost the football, which was kicked towards the Commodores' end zone. Safety Jarvis Edison was there to gather it in, as he rambled eight yards for the score. 
It was just one of many big plays for an emotional Irish squad that dominated Vanderbilt in every phase of the game. Especially defensively. 
"On offense, we just didn't explode," Commodores head coach Rod Dowhower said. "We kind of let the day seize us fustead of us seize the day." 
Carpe diem turned into catastrophe pretty quickly for the Commodores. 
Notre Dame's defense was stingy to say the least, giving up just 94 total yards and collecting four turnovers. Vanderbilt quarterbacks Damian Allen and Ronnie Gordon failed to complete a pass in the final three quarters of the game. 
The offense was able to feed off this 
intense defensive performance. as they 
piled up 493 yards of total offense. They 
basically had their way with the 
Commodore defensive front. 
"It was pretty much from the get-go," 
Grasmanis said. "We went in there and 
stopped them, then the offense drove down and scored. We realized that if we kept it up it would be a great day." 
The day startedoff great for the Irish when they executed an 8-play, 90-yard drive that ended with a Randy Kinder touchdown run from six yards out. 
Kinder finished with 110 yards rush­ing on 17 carries. Marc Edwards scored two touchdowns on plays where second and third efforts finally got him in the end zone. 
"In Marc's two touchdowns, he showed tremendous effort," Powlus said. "He's a fighter." 
The Irish were 3-3 on fourth down conversions, all of which came after Notre Dame had built at least a four touchdown lead. 
"If we didn't have the lead, some of those calls probably wouldn't have been made like that," offensive coordinator Dave Roberts said. "It was just run it up in there and 'here we go'." 

The first call came with the Irish up 27-0 and on the Vandy five-yard line. Robert Farmer took a Powlus pitch off an option play, broke a tackle, and got the first down. 
It was a similiar play to what the Irish called agasint Northwestern on a fourth­and-one play, in which Farmer was tripped up short of the first down mark­er. 
The following two calls came in Notre Dame's first drive of the fourth quarter in fourth-and-one situations. Edwards was able to carry three tacklers for the yard each time. 
Roberts didn't make the decisions on his own, however. "He was getting some encouragement from us on the sidelines," Powlus said. 
"We wanted to go for it and try and get a big jump, because it's a big emotional thing to go for it and get it on fourth down. That was what we needed." 
Freshman Autry Denson added a touchdown on a five-yard run in the sec­ond quarter. Kopka went 2-3 on field goal attempts, hitting from 22 and 38 yards before missing from 33. 
After a shocking loss and a close win, a blowout was what the team needed. But Davie is still trying to keep things in perspective. 
"Hopefully this football team is on track," the interim coach said. "But I'm still very realistic about where we are. We are just so young and so thin, par­ticularly on defense. 
"But it looks to me that we have a chance to be just a dominant offensive team. I mean that sincerely." 
------..----------------------------------------­
page 3 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA Monday, September 18, 1995 
Defensive pressure causes Commodore collapse 
Irish capture four turnovers, keep 
Vandy under 100 yards total offense 
By MEGAN McGRATH Sports Wrirer 
It makes sense that the Notre Dame defensive unit were the emotional leaders of the squad Saturday. 
After all, their coordinator was acting head coach. With all the pressure on Bob Davie, they likely wanted to ease his burden with an especially eiTec­tive, fired-up performance. 
That's certainly the way it looked, as the Irish defense yielded no points and held the Commodores to just 94 total of­fensive yards. It was team's first shut-out since a 44-0 thrashing of Pitt in 1993. 
"We wanted to make it a spe­cial day for him," nose guard Paul Grasmanis said. "It was great for Coach Davie to get his first shut-out." 
While Vanderbilt may not have the o!Tensive firepower of Purdue, or even Northwestern, the defense prevented the Commodores from executing much while they had the ball. 
"They were just too physical on defense," Vanderbilt head coach Hod Dowhower said of the Irish. "We just were not put together well enough and had a lot to overcome." 
Notre Dame may have been a little too aggressive early on, failing to convert on sack opportunities. On Vanderbilt's first possession, quarterback Damian Allen eluded sacks by Lyron Cobbins and Corey Bennett to turn possible big losses into gains. But good cov­erage by the secondary pre­vented the Commodores from driving past the Irish 49. 

"We made some mistakes 

I'REV· TEAM .RECORD POINTS IOUS 
1. Florida St. (36) 3-0-0 1519 1 
2. Nebraska (19) 3-0-0 1488 2 
3. Texas A&M (5) 2-0-0 1386 3 
4. Florida (2) 3-0-0 1375 4 
5. Southern Cal 2-0-0 1262 6 
6. Penn St. 2-0-0 1218 7 
7. Colorado 3-0-0 1168 9 
8. Ohio St. 2-0-0 1116 10 
9. Michigan 4-0-0 1095 11 10. Oklahoma 2-0-0 854 14 11. Virginia 3-1-0 824 16 12. Oregon 3-0-0 823 20 13. Texas 2-0-0 811 15 14. Auburn 2-1-0 803 5 15. Tennessee 2-1-0 739 8 16. UCLA 2-1-0 562 12 17. Miami 1-1-0 463 19 18. Louisiana State 2-1-0 390 19. Kansas State 2-0-0 372 22 20. Georgia 2-1-0 368 23 21. Notre Dame 2-1-0 270 24 22. Washington 1-1-0 269 18 23. Alabama 2-1-0 262 13 24. Maryland 3-0-0 127 25. Arizona 2-1-0 116 17 
early on defense," Davie said. But the young, still developing unit learned from those mis­takes, dominating the Commodores the rest of the way. After two weeks of allow­ing opposing backs to run over them, the defensive line was solid Saturday. 
Vanderbilt running back Jermaine Johnson was not a 
• By the Book 
TEAM STATISTICS 

NO  vu  
First downs  28  7  
Rushes-yards  66-293  30-56  
Passing yards  200  38  
Comp-an-int  13-18·0  3·14·1  
Return yards  BB  120  
Fumbles /lost  511  4/3  
Penalties-yards  5·39  2·21  
Punts-avemge  2-20.0  5-47.8  
3rd down conv  6-14  3-11  
4th down conv  3·3  0-0  
Possession time  39:29  20:31  

INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS 
RUSHING-

Notre Dame: Kinder 17-110 TD. Farmer 14· 58, Denson 12·38 TD, Thorne 2·34, Edwards 7· 32 2TD, Stokes 4-14, Barry 2·11, Spencer 2·6, Powlus 5-(minus 5), Krug 1-(minus 5). Vanderbilt: Johnson 13·38, Deese 4·6, Marinangel 1-6, Dunnavant 2-5, Gordon 1·2, Allen 9-(minus 1 ). 
• Scoring Summary 
SCORE BY QUARTERS 

1  2  3  4TOT  
Notre Dame 7  20  7  7  41  
Vanderbilt  0  0  0  0  0  

SCORING SUMMARY 
FIRST QUARTER 

Notre Dame 7, Vanderbilt 0 
Kinder 6 run (Kopka kick) at 7:51. (8 plays, 90 yards, 3:15 elapsed) Key Play: Vanderbilt's face-mask penalty on third-down kept the drive alive. 
SECOND QUARTER 

Notre Dame 10, Vanderbilt 0 Kopka 38 FG at 14:56. (13 plays, 49 yards, 5:29) 
Key Play: Denson's 1 0-yard run gave the Irish a first-and-goal at the Vandy 10. 
Notre Dame 17, Vanderbilt 0 Denson 5 run (Kopka kick) at 6:39. (14 plays, 86 yards, 5:42) 
Key Play: On 3rd and 2, Powlus avoided a sack and threw to a tight end. 
box, and I think we did that." 
The linebacker trio of Bert Berry, Tatum and Cobbins led the team in intensity and tack­les. Berry had a team-high eight, including a sack and one broken-up pass. Tatum and Cobbins had five tackles each, and the pressure they and Renaldo Wynn applied to the Commodore quarterbacks greatly disrupted their passing game. 
Allen and Honnie Gordon completed only three of 14 at­tempted passes, for 38 yards. Allen's four-yard dump to ClifT Deese with 5:35 in the first quarter was the team's last completion of the game. 
The intensity of the defense also led to some key turnovers, both in the third period. A hard hit from Berry caused an Allen fumble that was recovered by Grasmanis. Brain Magee ended the quarter by picking off Gordon's second pass-attempt of the day, returning it for 43 yards. 
"All day long the defensive line had been getting pressure for us and we weren't really blitzing a lot," Magee said. "I credit that interception on the defense making him throw a bad pass." 
Davie was pleased with the way the young unit was coming together. 
"I think we're on track, but we have to be realistic," Davie said. 
"We are young and thin, so the key is to stay healthy. We played today about as well as we can play." 
factor. Johnson gained 114 yards against Alabama two weeks ago, including a 7 5-yard touchdown burst. Saturday he earned just 38 yards on 13 car­ries. 
"We knew Johnson was a big player for them, and that he can be a big-play guy," line­backer Kinnon Tatum said. "We wanted to keep him in a 

PASSING Notre Dame: Powlus 13-18-0·200. Vanderbilt: Allen 3-12·0·38, Gordon 0-2-1-0. 
RECEIVING 
Notre Dame: Mayes 3-56, Edwards 3·46, Wallace 2·41, Mosley 2-28, Chryplewicz 2-25, Kinder 1·4. 
Vanderbilt: Simmons 1-24, Tomichek 1-10, Deese 1·4. 
TACKLES 
Notre Dame: Berry 8, Tatum 5 (112 sack), Cobbins 5, Magge 3 (1 int), Mclaughlin 3 (1 sack), Wynn 3 (1/2 sack), Quist 3, Bennett 3, Wagasy 2, Smith 2 (1 sack), Edison 1 (1 fum rec), Kramer 1 (1 fum rec), Grasmanls 1 (1 fum rec), Goode 1, Monohan 1, Carrena 1, Friday 1. 
Vanderbilt: Jefcoat12, Duncan 10, Hall 9 (1 sack), Chavous B, M. Williams B, Manley 8, Finklin 6, Vance 5, Boykin 5, Schuckman 4, Stuckey 3, Vincon 2, Batten 2, Hill 2, Jordon 1, K. Williams 1, DeGraffenreid 1, Stallworth 1, Young 1, Harvey (1 fum rec). 
Notre Dame 24, Vanderbilt 0 Edison 8-yard fumble recovery (Kopka kick) at 6:27. 
Key Play: Belisle caused the fum­ble, then accidentally kicked the ball right to Edison at the 8. 
Notre Dame 27, Vanderbltl 0 Kopka 22 FG at :42. (12 plays, 89 yards, 5:22) 
Key Play: Powlus hit Mayes for 20 yards on a 3rd and 3 to get the Irish in field goal range. 
THIRD QUARTER 
Notre Dame 34, Vanderbilt 0 Edwards 1 run (Kopka kick) at 2:35. (11 plays, 64 yards, 4:28) 
Key Play: Farmer beat the Vandy defense to the comer to convert on 4th down. 
FOURTH QUARTER 
Notre Dame 41, Vanderbilt 0 Edwards 1 run (Kopka kick) at 10:26. (8 yards, 18 plays, 4:34) Key Play: Magee returned an inter­ception 43 yards to the Vanderbilt 18 to set up the last Irish score. 
Sherman 
continued from page I 
jump out to big leads only to ease up and lose any sort of momentum that would have been gained for the next week. 
The 1994 Stanford and Air Force games were perfect examples. In each, the Irish jumped out to big leads during the first three quarters only to see the Cardinal and Falcons take charge late and make the games a lot closer than they should've been. The complacent attitude dis­played in each contest carried over to the next Saturday, as the Irish followed the wins with very lackluster performances at Boston College and Southern CaL 
Notre Dame could have easily fallen victim to that sort of apathy against Vanderbilt, but they didn't and that is important. 
With a 7-7-1 mark in their last 15 games entering the Vandy game, the mystique of Notre Dame had been slowly deteriorating into a myth. Opponents used to have a lot on their minds when they played the Irish -the aura of invinci­bility, the fear of entering Notre Dame Stadium, and the knowledge that you were going to walk r: ofT the field with a loss. Much of that has been lost and needs to be found. The search party was out in earnest against the Commodores. 
The Irish dominated in every facet of the game and made sure the domination lasted a full 60 minutes. From the second-stringers such as David Quist and JeiT Kilburg to the walk-ons like Marcus Thorne and Kevin Carretta, the level of intensity remained as high as when Bob Davie led the Irish out of the tunnel to open the game. 
In addition to the intense domination, another thing returned to Notre Dame Stadium -enjoy­ment. 
All throughout the stadium, people were hav­ing fun, something that couldn't be said about the Northwestern game. Granted, winning is a great elixir, but there was to be something more. From the student section (aren't 1:30 starts nice) to the Irish sideline, there seemed to be a renewed sense of what makes Notre Dame foot­ball great. 
Now, with three straight ranked opponents on tap and the depth of the team about equal to the Hesburgh reflecting pool, there are bound to be doubters out there. Time will tell if those doubts are well-founded or whether Saturday's rout was the beginning of something bigger: a return to the glory days of Notre Dame footbalL 
I 
I ~­
I 

The Irish dug deep into their bag of tricks on Saturday as Leon Wallace caught a Ron Powlus toss and rambled for 35 yards in the thrid quarter. 


-----------------------~----­

The Observer/Kevin Klau Robert Farmer had a productive day (58 yards) until he tore knee ligaments. He is expected to have surgery and miss a month of action. 
Notre Dame 41 Vanderbilt 0 
Notre Dame Stadium September 16, 1995 
• Game Notes 
By MIKE NORBUT 
Sports Editor 
It was the same Lou Holtz that walked off the plane from Minnesota Saturday morning, but there were a couple changes. 
Physically, a ginger step and neck brace were the most obvious differ­ences. And mentally, there was a revamping of attitude in the works. 
"I think we become intoxicated with success," Holtz said. "We forget sometimes the good things we have. We can take health and sometimes family for granted." 
The Irish coach underwent major cervical spine surgery Tuesday, and improved to the point that the Mayo Clinic doctors agreed to allow him to return home earlier than expected. 
"You're very weak after a four and a half hour operation," Holtz said. "But overall, I feel amazingly well." 
Holtz had to watch Saturday's game from his home. But he might be able to sit in the press box for next week's game against Texas. 
His work schedule wHI eventually be about four hours a day, a little time in the office in the morning fol­lowed by some time on the practice field with the team. 
Bundles of fun: Offensive coordina­tor Dave Roberts was down on the field during a game for the first time since coming to Notre Dame last year. But it would have been a great win regardless. 
"For twelve years I was downstairs and the last year and a half I was upstairs," offensive coordinator Dave Roberts said. "It's fun when you win. I could be on top of the press box standing on my head and it's still nice to win." 
"It's nice to be down there," he . 

continued. "Upstairs you can't hear the cheers, the crowd or the band. I came out early in the second half to listen to the band. It was wonderful." 
The band did have some exciting moves, like the limbo dance and the four members cutting their own little rug out in front. 
MVP's: Following the game, the Notre Dame players decided to give game balls to the entire coaching staff. 
"It was good to play so well consid­ering the situation we're in," tailback Randy Kinder said. "We felt really good for the whole coaching staff, and we just wanted to let them know ' 
how  much  we  appreciate  their  
work."  
Impressions:  Dowhower  was  

impressed with the Irish, as were his players. 
"To actually line up against the kind of physical talent they have was · an experience for them today," the Vanderbilt coach said. 
But he was quick to add that there are some tough games upcoming for the Commodores. 
"Unfortunately, we play some teams that may be better than Notre Dame in Florida and Tennessee. Now I don't know what the outcome would be if they played each other ..." 
Like on Saturday, when the fourth­ranked Gators annihilated the eighth­ranked Volunteers 62-37? 
The image: Several members of the Irish defense have been wearing tint­ed visors and tying their jerseys up. 
"If you look good, you feel good," inside linebacker Kinnon Tatum said. "If you feel good, you play good." 
Farmer out: Irish tailback Robert Farmer tore knee ligaments and is expected to miss about a month. 
.--------------------------.------------~--~--------~--------------------------------------------------------~ -------------------------------, 
ACC~NT 

Monday, September 18, 1995 
The Observer/Bmndon Candum 

Birkenstocks 
A sole connection 
By KRISTIN TRABUCCO er, that hasn't stopped many in Mount Pleasant, Texas, said she already have foot problems avoid extreme heat (doesn't do Accent Writer the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's liked the ankle strap variety which could be augmented by much for the "they're cool on community from shelling out "because they don't slip ofT feet wearing shoes not made for hot days" argument, now does ' Everybody and their the cash. Many students did as much. Sometimes when I run their foot type. As for Dr. it?). use cork sealant, and mother wore them," mention that Birks are much real fast, I lose my McGowan, he has no prefer­replace the sole or heel and toe stated freshman Emily less expensive outside the U.S. Birkenstock." Freshman Kristin ence. He suggests going to the taps when they wear down 
Cox, a native of South Bend. than domestically. So perhaps D'Agostino agrees. "It makes store and trying them on to see more than 1/4 of an inch. What is it that's got all the there are just a lot of good bar­for a more active person," she if they fit you correctly before Birkenstock will do this for a townies dressing alike? It's only gain shoppers out there. said. In addition, 70% of the you shell out your entire sum­fee which varies depending on the hottest fashion statement to surveyed students who owned mer savings. what model shoe you have and come out of Germany since It's not just the students who Birkenstocks said they wear whether you need the whole lederhosen. No. it's not that slip their feet into Birkenstocks. theirs year-round. 60% said Wearing loose shoes or walk­sole replaced or not. beer stain on your shirt that Christine Rutledge, an Assistant they sometimes wear socks ing barefoot improves circu­you tried to pass ofT as "on pur­Professor of Music at Notre with their Birks. Sarah Hiltz of lation, but the American And now, the million dollar pose." It's Birkenstocks. The Dame, confesses to owning five Beverly Hills, Michigan, said Diabetes Association reports question: which is better, shoe that's much more than a or six pairs. She first saw Birks she likes the Birkenstock clogs that if you are a diabetic you Birkenstocks or Teva? The shoe. It's a sandal. about 15 years ago when they because "they don't look stupid should never walk barefoot, Birkenstock side: they're cool, 
were first popular. while she with socks." even though diabetics often suf­comfortable, match everything, 
The craft of sandal making was still in college. All the radi­There have fer from poor circulation. It and are easy to get on and ofT. goes back thousands of years. cals and hippies were wearing b e e n increases your risk of infection The Teva side: they're cool, wa­Archaeologists have found them. ''I'm a musician, so I'm and other diabetic complica­terproof, more colorful, and, to Egyptian sandals made of pa­attracted to that," says tions. Birkenstocks and other some, even more comfortable pyrus leaves dating back to Rutledge. She did not start sandals may do the same thing, than Birks. Amanda Bauer, 2000 B.C., and the Ancient wearing them until she took a although to a lesser from Malvern, Pennsylvania, Romans wore sandals whose jeep trip through the Sinai degree. says, "[Birks) are comfortable decorations displayed rank. The desert. Rutledge reports it was Here are some for the first few hours, then Romans even wore them in bat­then that she found out they they give me blisters. I like tle. were sturdy and [Tevas] better because I 
can wear them as long as 
When the early I want and not get blis­Christians came along, ters." A graduate student bodily display was at Notre Dame pointed out frowned upon, so people that some people just can-began covering their feet. not wear Birks, even if Hence came the modern they like them. Some peo­practice of wearing shoes. ples' second toe is longer But now in the 20 than their big toe, causing (almost 21st) century, we this second toe to hit the edge return to our "pagan" fun of the shoe, making them roots, and the sandal is back! facts uncomfortable to wear. Tevas 
comfortable enough to brave vicious rumors over the past from the Birkenstock company do not cause this problem, ex­
Most students say they wear desert hikes. few years that podiatrists (feet about their sandals. Most peo­plained the grad student. The Birks because of comfort or be­doctors) do not recommend ple, when the word debate between Birk and Teva cause of the ease of simply Unlike Rutledge, most stu­wearing Birks. Dr. Donald D. "Birkenstock" is mentioned, say continues, but is most likely just "slippin' into" them. In addi­dents only own one pair of McGowan, DPM, of the Foot something like, "They're a matter of preference. tion, students say the fact that Birkenstocks. But Birks come in and Ankle Clinic of Michiana German, right?" But did you they match most outfits and many styles, shapes, and colors gave the low-down. He says know, Birkenstock has been So there you are. You know that they are cool when it is hot -but which are the most that most people can wear making shoes for 200 years? In everything there is to know outside are also pluses. Those popular? The most popular Birkenstocks without any prob­addition, Birks are measured in about Birkenstocks at Notre who do not like them, however. Birk color seems to be is black. lems, but if you're foot isn't the European sizes, so you may Dame and Saint Mary's, right? usually state aesthetic reasons This is followed by hunter right type (if it is too rigid and have to try on a few pairs to So take ofT the lederhosen, put for their distaste. One junior green and brown in a tie for doesn't fit the pre-molded find the right size. There should on a clean shirt, and tell your said, "They're just a couple of second. Many who were inter­footbed) the shoes can cause be 1/8 to 1/4 of an inch between friends you're quitting school to leather straps." viewed said they liked the origi­"irritation and painful prob­the end of your toes and the be a Birkenstock salesperson. 
nal, two strap, slip on style the lems." According to Dr. end of the sandal. Or just slip on your Birks (or 
.Both Birkenstock supporters best, although the ankle strap McGowan, a lot of podiatrists Teva's, or neither if you still and the opposition agree that style was only one vote behind. do not recommend wearing Birkenstock recommends hate them both), and take a their $80+ price tag is way too Birks to their patients, but, then that, in order to get the most nice long walk. Your feet will expensive. Apparently, howev-Reggie Mactal, a junior from again, many of their patients from your sandals, you should thank you for it. 
;ACCENT
page 12 Monday, September 18, 1995 
• JUST ANOTHER SINGlE DADDY 
Spike Lee's 'Clockers' battles ignorance 
By SCOTT BOZIK 
Accent Movie Critic 
S
ynopsis: "Clockers," the latest pic­ture from director Spike Lee, is a cinematic attempt to explore the effects of the inner-city drug culture. The film's narrative is built on the enig­matic circumstances that surround the death of a Brooklyn crack dealer, pre­senting an intriguing mystery that remains unresolved until the very end of the picture. Harvey Keitel and John Turturo portray two savvy and sassy detectives who allow their sense of pride and justice to involve them with yet another purveyor of cocaine, played by Delroy Lindo, in order to finally close this particular case of homicide. 
Daddy: I have absolutely no doubt that our perceptive and devout following has already noticed that only one minus­cule flaw mars the triumphant return of the Fatman and Daddy to the pages of the Observer. That minor blemish is, of course, the absence of the Fatman him­self. Where is the Rotund One? Tragically enough, John Tiberius Zach was apprehended and subsequently incarcerated by British custom officials as he attempted to smuggle a load of prized crumpets out of the country in his ample jowls. Realizing that there was no escape from Her Majesty's sovereign power, the Fatman opted to serve his time by spending the semester in the London Program. 
A primitive and cruel punishment indeed, but not one beyond the means of our beloved comrade in flesh. Godspeed, Fatman, we eagerly antici­pate your second coming in January. Now, to the business at hand.... 
I must admit that I have never been a 
huge fan of Spike Lee's collection of cin­
ematic work. I've often found his films 
to be too concerned with inflammatory 
stereotypes to actually present the 
themes that he is so committed to 
expressing. I expected "Clockers" to be 
another installment in a long line of 
movies that features a barrage of racial 
slurs and misdirected anger. However, I 
was pleasantly surprised that "Clockers" 
itself was an intelligent and thought­
provoking story about the nefarious 
nature of the New York drug trade. 
"Clockers," in my opinion, is a relative 
departure from Lee's other films in the 

sense that is closer in nature to a doc­
umentary; therefore it is not as much a 
Hollywood production as the other 
movies within this respective genre. 
The focus of "Clockers" is one more con­sumed by reality than by contrived plots and rehearsed acting. 
"Clockers" begins with a montage sequence of police photographs, which are graphic displays of corpses pro­duced by drug and gang-related vio­lence. These authentic images are cer­tainly not intended for the squeamish, as they show the audience the physical devastation that a bullet inflicts on the human body. Lee's choice of this visual device to open the movie sets the violent undertone that serves as the basis for 
the narrative. We are then quickly brought to the central point of this pic­ture and the course of events picks up with the introduction of Strike (Lindo) and his merry band of crack dealers. The recurrent theme of brutality sur­faces again when this group of barbar­ians assert that a rap artist cannot be "hardcore" until he has actually shot somebody. Through their discussions of "music" to their apparel featuring pic­tures of handguns, Lee leaves no doubt that a large portion of the youth in Brooklyn live an existence of inherent destruction. 
Aside from the creation of such a poignant backdrop for "Clockers," Lee does an excellent job of examining the hierarchy within the cocaine business; as well as exposing and drawing atten­tion to the viciously cyclical nature of 
life within the inner city. The director leaves no doubt that the residents of his Brooklyn live a life fraught with para­doxes and that quite frequently the only path to escape the violence lies in the tragically ironfc creation of more death and chaos. Lee, through the medium established in "Clockers," contends that drug dealing is an apparent necessity in the lives of the housing project's resi­dents; in essence, that it is the only way to achieve the material goods sought by practically all human beings. 

However, Spike Lee does not stop with the presentation of this sad truth. "Clockers" reminds us that, all too often, the real victims of this exercise in futility are those who play only an indirect role in it. 
In this film we meet the archetypal family man: a principled individual who works two jobs to provide for the family he rarely gets to spend time with. Unfortunately, this character is manipu­lated by the drug trade, held captive by its destructive rage, and eventually sep­arated from his family by it as well. The audience also experiences the hardships of the mothers who, despite their valiant efforts to teach their sons better, have to watch their children grow up to often participate in, and always be affected by, the pure evil that is the trademark of crack cocaine. Atop the wasted lives of their prey stand the various kingpins and pushers, eagerly and consciously waiting to recruit another partner or ad­dict; and ultimately, to insure the per­petuation of the horror itself. 
"Clockers" presents no easy answers to its dilemma; and even its vaguely melodramatic ending provides no real cloture or hopes of a better future. It is with this theatrical pessimism that Lee creates a perfect and vivid image of con­summate reality. Spike Lee misses no chances to cast dispersions on those he feels to be primarily responsible and perhaps it is with these very indictments that real progress can be made. Lee makes it very clear that figures such as Dr. Dre and Snoop Doggy Dog are nei­ther idols nor iconoclasts; rather, they provide excellent examples of what is fundamentally wrong with this sector of society. "Clockers" teaches its audience that there is no easy way to remove yourself from a state of penury and that those who try to do so at the expense of others are certainly the most con­temptible individuals conceivable. We all owe a debt of gratitude to Spike Lee for opening the eyes of those previously ignorant (like myselO of the magnitude of this dire situation. This facet of the movie is its greatest merit (and the one most deserving of future accolades), for it is only with education within all strata of society that this problem can even begin to be addressed. 

• DAYS OF OUR LIVES 
Victor tells Vivian: 'Buh-Bye' 
By CHRISTINA FTICSAR and coma, and refused to allow Sarah, a new character. She Kate. Victor was furious with fatal diseases. Stefano has had ERIN KELSEY Laura to hypnotize him in was dressed like a huge mov­Vivian, so he kicked her out of his inoperable brain tumor for Days ofOur Lives Correspondents order to find the truth behind ing curtain so she could spy his house. On Friday, at the about two years, and he's still 
his nightmares once he woke on Jack. Talk about dedica-Titan family picnic, Victor alive and kicking. 
We'll start with Bo, Hope, up. This was also after Celeste played matchmaker for Carrie and Billie. The divorce papers threatened to tell Jennifer and Austin and fixed it so that Overall, last week was not a were signed, and Hope about his shady dealings if he they were paired together dur­very active one for the Days'
M
eanwhile, the
returned to Salem. However, was hypnotized. ing all of the games. This pair­characters. Laura's still hot before Hope left Santa Rosa, Of course, we're sure the judge who was to ing put a damper on Sami's for Jack, Bo and Hope still evil Carmen was constantly real reason Peter doesn't want and Lucas' plans to keep the aren't together, and poor Sean 
sign the divorce papers
telling her not to give up on Laura to hypnotize him is two apart for the day. Douglas, Abigail, Belle, and Bo. Carmen told Billie to rec­because she herself was in a of Bo and Hope left Brady are being denied ognize her fate. In other wacko bin for 18 years. Think town, so the divorce At the picnic, Tony-the-Tan­parental attention. What we words, Billie should realize about it. Would you want her Man was enraged when he want to know is if their par­
isn't fmal yet. 
that Bo and Hope are meant to to hypnotize you? Peter also found out that John bid on ents even remember their be together forever. gave us a scare by going flat­and won Kristen's picnic bas­names and where the kids are 
Meanwhile, the judge who line for a minute but came tion! Meanwhile, the Parrot ket before public bidding living. Well, we'll see you next was to sign the divorce papers back to wake up from his Man spoke of the mysterious began. Tony then vowed once week with more exciting news of Bo and Hope left town, so coma. lady-in-white having to do with again to end the life of one of and announcements from your the divorce isn't final yet. All the death of a stranger some­Salem's finest and to blame the favorite soap opera. three showed up at the Titan Jack heard Peter rambling time in the past, and he also murder on John. family picnic on Friday, and about Aremid and its secrets predicted death. Erin Kelsey is a senior Psych while Hope was working the while he was still in a coma, so It also appears as if Tony will major who is preparing for police beat, a man grabbed Jack decided to go back to Vivian's game with Victor have some kind of a fatal blood grad school as we speak. her from behind for the excit­Aremid and investigate some was revealed to Victor by Olga. disease, so he may set Christina Fticsar is a History ing Friday clifThanger. more. While he was there, he She became angry with Operation Kristen into action and Government double major 
Peter started to have flash­discovered who he thought Vivian, so she told him the soon. However, don't count who hopes to go to law school. backs from his youth in was the lady-in-white, but he truth about Victor's supposed Tony out yet. The Damera's Aremid while he was in a was mistaken and found dress-rehearsal wedding to seem to do incredibly well with 
Monday, September 18, 1995 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS page 13 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
WEEKLY· MIDWAY TAVERN 810W4TH MISH. MON THE JAZZ FIRM 7:30-9:30 WED OPEN JAM 9:30 THURS IRISH MUSIC 9 2BLKS S.OF 1 00 CTR 255-0458 NEED ID 
Learn to fly airplanes, Instrument, Private Ground School begins October, Jack Arbanas 219-234­6011 or 616-695-2807 
Newly remodeled Bed and Breakfast located In Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. 5 rooms with private baths, space available for football game wknds. 1-800-418­9487 
NO @ WASHINGTON -2 Obi Rms Ramada Seattle Oct 6-7. Brunch for 4 at Dukes on Lake & boat cruise to/from game. No game tkts. $600. Mike (206)575-0711. 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST 
35mm Pentax Camera 
In"a Brown & Black Case 
Call4x3371 
$$ tREWARDI $$ 
LOST: Very sentimental royal 
blue/white J.Crew pullover/coat. 
Psbly In S. Din. Hall. Small reward. 
PLEASE call me If you have It 
Lisa 4-0848 
Lost a Gold Chain Bracelet of great sentimental value ... Piease, if found, call MARl at X298911 :( Thanks. 
Found-
Set of Keys by Admin. Building. 
Running Shoe Key Chain. 
Chris x1899 
WANTED 
Sales Help Needed -Long Distance Service needs Reps to sell to stu­dents and their families. Can be done part time from room or apart­ment. Potential for immediate com­missions, management bonuses and long term residual income. We offer tremendous value to the cus­tomer and training and support for oyr Reps. C~II.Mike at 616-521­3620. 
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT­Students Needed! Fishing Industry. Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per month. Room and Board! Transportation! Male or Female. No experience necessary. Call (206)545-4155 ext A55841 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­
Earn up to $2,000+/month on 
Cruise Ships or Land-Tour compa­
nies. World travel. Seasonal & full­
time employment available. No 
experience necessary. For more 
Information call 1-206-634-0468 
ext. C55841 
WANTED! I 
Authentic N.D. Stadium seat 
offered by Athletic Dept. 
I DESPERATELY need to buy one 
-but they're SOLD OUT! 
PLEASE HELP MEl $$$11 
Call: Chris Carroll (Class Of '91) 
M-F 8-5cst 
(708)325-8700 
Thanks. 
Part-time nanny needed. $7/hr. 
2:30-8:30 any aft. Must drive. Call 
257-1411 evens. 
RIDE TO ND-OSU GAME. WILL 
SHARE COSTS AND DRIVING. 
PREFER TO SPEND FRI OR SAT 
NIGHT AT OSU, BUT NOT NEG. 
CALL MARC x0672 
Earn $2500 & Free Spring Break 
Trips! Sell 8 Trips & Go Freel Best 
Trips & Prices! Bahamas, Cancun, 
Jamaica, Florida! Spring Break 
Travel! 1-800-678-6386 
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­Seasonal & full-time employment available at National Parks, Forests & Wildlife Preserves. Benefits + bonuses! Call: 1-206-545-4804 ext. N55841 
Lead Guitarist Looking for Band 
Call Flynn x-1007 
Local church looking for a pianist for choir practice on Wed. evenings 7-8. 
Call272-8141 -Westmlnlster Presbyterian Church. Paid position. 
Graduating senior seeks female roommate for spring semester. Call Pam at 634-1363. 
FOR RENT 
2 BDRM HOME FOR RENT NEAR CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272-6306 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR ND 232-2595 
2 BDRMS, USE OF ALL UTILI­TIES, KITCHEN, WID, $250/MO. QUIET N/HOOD. NEAR CAMPUS. PAUL 232-2794. 
HOUSE TO SELL OR RENT. WALK TO NO. 315 NAPOLEON, 
3 BR, 1-1/2 B., 2-CAR GARAGE, UTILITIES. IDEAL FACULTY/STAFF HOME. AVAIL­ABLE NOW. SALE $88,000, RENT $600/MO., PLUS UTILITIES. 
HOME CLOSE TO NO GOOD AREA 2773097 
LUXURY LAKE HOUSE AVAIL­ABLE FOR HOME GAME WEEK­ENDS. SLEEPS 10. JACUZZI TUB, STEAM ROOM, FULLY FUR­NISHED. $1,500.00 PER WEEK­END. 30 MIN. FROM CAMPUS. 219-295-6261 DAYS. 616-476­2459 EVENINGS. ASK FOR LES. 
FOR SALE 
1985 Honda Hatchback $1000/Best offer 708-957-1546 (Chicago) Ask for Pete. New Tires & Brakes. 
84 Hunda, 2Dr good con., $1200 or b/o. 237-1039, lv mess. 
85 VW Diesel, 2Dr VG con., $2200, or b/o. 273-9520 after 6 pm. 
AfT TICKET TO L.A. OCT 14-22 $260 o.b.ol Jamie x2498 
MACINTOSH COMPUTER for sale. Complete system Including printer only $499. Call 1-800-289-5685. 
Packard Bell 486SXCPU 4 megabytes-color monitor­Wordperfect 6.0-CD ROM­Soundcard-color printer-1 yr. old $1700 256-6982 (before 4:00) 
IIIALPINE CAR CO PLAYERIII $250 CALL BRENT 273-6183 
11110 SPEED BIKE FOR SALEIII GREAT CONDITION AND ONLY $40; CALL BRENT 273-6183 
TOM PETTY TICKETS DEERE CREEK SEPT. 19 CALL 232-0058 
TICKETS 
A DEVOTED IRISH FAN NEEDS GA'S TO ANY/ALL HOME/AWAY GAMES. 219-232-0061,24 HAS. 
TICKET-MART, INC. WANTED GA'S FOR ANY/ALL 
HOME/AWAY ND GAMES. BUY'SELL'TRADE (219) 232-0058-24 HAS. 
I NEED TIXS TO ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306 
HELP! I need 1 NAVY GA and 3 BC Stud. Tickets. CASH! Call Alison @284-5140 
NEED TEXAS GA'S. CALL ALISON 1-800-431-0010, EXT. 8796. 
Need 2 Texas GAs. Desperate and Wealthy! Call 1-800-223-2440 Ext.4370 $$$$$$ 
Need G.A. Tix to NO-Texas. Call Joe at 287-4561 before 10 p.m. 
NEED NO-TEXAS GA 
OR STUDENT TIX. CALL DAVE 609-n9-3876. 

NO DAD NEEDS TEXAS, USC & PURDUE GA'S. 219-422-6088. 
I NEED TEXAS AND USC GA'SI PLEASE CALL SUZV AT X3729. 
FOR SALE TICKETSIIII 
G.A. S ALL GAMES ....... 272-72331111111111 

USC TICKETS NEEDED, STU­DENT OR GA. CALL KATIE AT 219-271-9856. THANK YOU! 
WILL BUY TEXAS TICKETS 817­738-5109 
ALUM NEEDS TEXAS GAs. CALL (313)420-1208 OR (212)250-6513 (DAY ONLY). 
"Need two BC tlxl" Please call Kristin @ 2377 

TEXAS BOY DESPERATELY SEEKING TEXAS TICKETS. PLEASE CALL MIGUEL AT X3336. 
NEED: 
1 GA for Texas and 
1 GAforBC. call Christine @ 273-2580 

Need 4 USC GAs & 2 BC GAs. Please call Cheryl x4883 
HELPIII NEED TWO GA'S FOR ANY HOME FOOTBALL GAME CALL BILL AT x3559 
Desperately In need of B.C. football ticket (GA) for friend. Big Money at stake! Call Johnny at 4-3679. 
Need 2 tickets for NO vs. Texas. Call Ken, collect at (405)677-8253 
NO Alum has 2 BC GA's to TRADE for USC GA's. Call Brian (717)566­5856. Leave message. 
Need 4 USC GA's Katie X4088 
I NEED 4 TEXAS TIX (any) AND 1 BC.HELP WITH ANYTHING IN ANYWAY CALL COAT 1676 'I WILL DO ANYTHING' 
NEED 8 NAVY GA'S $$$USC stud tic to sell X2620 
Need 2 Student Tix and 2 GA's for 
Texas. Call Dominic @ 273-8709 
if you can help me out. 

NEED TXS STD TIX -RON X0648 
need Texas GA's. John 1-7204; 
233-3412 

for sale: 2 student ticket books 
make offer on message. 271-7270 
Need USC GA'S 
1 USC stud. needed 
Matt 288-3823 

Needed: Two G.A.'s for the Texas game. Call4-3056. Ask for Dan. 
Need 2 Texas GAs 
and 1 Texas Stud 
---{)811 Chad X3384 
$Need 2 Tex GA's$ 272-9105 

Need Texas & BC Tickets -GA or 
Student -Willing to buy or trade 
Call Matt 273-9650 
Need 2 Texas GA's. 
Call Alison X2511 

NEED 1-4 GA'S FOR OH STATE. 
CALL BILL@ 219-294-3250. 
Please sell me 2 Texas stud. or GA tickets. Call Jenny X3512. 
NEED TWO TEXAS GA'S REAL 
BAD. LET DAD SEE ND GAME 
FOR FIRST TIME. CALL DAN AT 
4-3056 
Need 2 BC GA'slll X4027 

I NEED 4 GA'S FOR THE TEXAS 
GAME. PLEASE DO NOT CALL IF 
YOU HAVE STUDENT TICKETS 
TURNED INTO GA'S. 
CALL JOE 4-1846. 

I NEED 4 TICKETS FOR THE 
usc. 
CALL BILL AT 4-1854. 
Student tix booklet 4 sale-$ 90 or offer. Leave msg @ 634-2628. 
YOU NEED BEER MONEY! I desperately need TX tix Will buy/ trade. call 272-4911 
TRADE 5 NAVYTIX. Will trade for TEXAS TIX. KEVIN x3254 
SAVE MEl OR MY HTH WILL KILL ME. Need 1 Texas tix GA or Stud Vince X 1664 
TRADE-2 BCNandblt GAs for 2 USC/Texas GAs-Call219-273­8379 
I NEED TXS GA'S MEGAN X3890 
I NEED GA'S MEGAN X3890 
GA FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE CALL 2719464 OR 2887162 
PLEASE sell me your Texas ticket­student or GA. Kira 284-5502. 
I need 2 Texas G.A.s. Dad won't pay for my last semester unless! get these tickets. Call Bob x4040. 
Need 2 BC tix. Student or GA. Kevin x4040 
I have 3 friends who have never NEVER seen a Notre Dame gamell Please help these poor, unfortunate souls with tix for USC. Good prices paid for any available tickets. Call Jim x1739. 
NEED TEXAS GAs-WILL PAY$$ please call Charlie x2243 
Willing to trade two Navy G.A.s for Texas tickets. 
Tom 634-1157 
NEED 2 USC GA'S AND 4 TEXAS 
GA'S: CALL KEVIN 234-3468 
NEED 1-7 TEXAS GA'S. X1899 
HELP! HELP! HELP! 
I need 2 G.A.'s to ANY game after 
Fall Break. Will pay ANY price! II 
call Scott @ x1105 
$ I need 2 Texas Ga's for my Dad$ $ Call Kate at 2900 
$ 
Need 1 USC Ticket Student or 
GA. Call Anne x4896. 
CA family needs 3 BC GAs. 
Please! 
Call Clara x4826 
WILL TRADE 4 BOSTON COL­
LEGE GA'S FOR 4 USC GA'S OR 
WILL TRADE 2 BOSTON COL­
LEGE GA'S FOR 2 USC GA'S. 
CALL TODD AT 4-1787. 
ALUM WILL PAY $100 A TICKET 
FOR USC TEXAS OHIO STATE 
WASH ga's PERSONAL USE 
ONLY 2773097 
NEED 2 NAVY GA'S. CALL TOM 
ATX1899. 
NEED 4 TEX GA BIG $Chrisx4010 
WANTED: 2-3 Texas GAs: will 
trade BC GAs for them. (414)282­
0286 Brian 
I NEED TICKETS II If you are not using your tix for the Texas game (Sep.23), please CALL RICK COL­LECT at (210)805-8355, after 7 pm CST. 
NEED VANDERBILT GA'S AND TEXAS GA'S/ STUDENT TIX CALL AILEEN AT X4033 
NO GRAD NEEDS TIXI 
LETTERMAN NEEDS 
4USC AND 6 TEXAS TIXI 
WILL PAY $$$$$1 
CALL MIKE X1824 
Need 2 good tix for any of the dates 10/21, 10/28, 11/4. (515)486-2517 
FOR SALE 
TEXAS STUD TIX 
SOME MARRIED 
2718154 Wanted two to four home game tickets. Call or write. 314-731-7604 Gary Goehl PO Box4152 Hazelwood MO 63042 
Alum wants 2 tix for ohio state call Eileen x3878 
Crazed relative wants BC GA's money no object call Eileen x3878 
I need 2 GAs for Texas Please call Kathleen @4843 

Rich Alumni needs GA's to all home games. Call Tom at (312)280­2591, Bill at (312)327-5329, or Greg at (708)253-7997 
TEXAS''TEXAS"TEXAS 
Need Texas Tix-5tudent or GA. Call Jeremy at x4075 
Need GA's to any game Call Katie X1093 

STUDENT DESPARATEL Y NEEDS 1 GA OR STUDENT TICK­ET FOR TEXAS. PLEASE HELP MEl CALL TIM 634-1799 
FOR SALE : 4 BKs Stud Tlx Call Jane @287-7729 (B-12pm) or leave msg and make offer 
Need Stud. Tex Tic. Call Christian x3542 
WANTED-TEXAS GA'S OR 
STUD'S WILL PAY BIG$$$ 
815-282-9503 
DON'T MESS WITH TEXAS 
SELL MEYOUR 
TEXASGA'S 
FOR LARGE SUMS Alex@ 

OFCASH $$ 4-3504 
NEED TWO BC TICKETS I I I 

My dad would love your tickets and 
you'd love his money. 
call Kevin -1177 
NEED TICKETS 
4 TEXAS G.A.'S 
Call Sean x2153 
Need 3 TEXAS GA's and/or 

STUD TXTS. Call Tom 4-3637 Ill 
Help -senior needs 2 Navy GA's for grandparents! Call Heather X4412 
WILL TRADE 2 GA BC FOR 2 SC GA/STDNT TX. ALSO NEED 1 OR 2 STDNT TEX TX. DON (714) 990­0890. 
FOR SALE: 2 TEXAS GA. CALL 
(317) 685-1803 AND LEAVE OFFER AND PHONE #. 

TEXAS: Need two GAs for Texas; 
will trade two BC, USC, Navy for 
them. Call Tom at 1-7330 or 272­
6408 

I need 2 Texas tickets. Call Tim 
x1950. 

NEED MANY, MANY G.A.'S AND 
STUDENT TIX. FOR THE B.C. 
GAME. AND, EXTRA TICKET 
BOOKS WANTED. CALL US 
273-5953. 

Central OH ND Alum living In Atlanta, GA needs Hx for ND-OSU. Will pay top DOLLAR or trade lodg­ing and/or tix for '96 Olympics. Call 404-451-4069 or 404-813-6073. 
PERSONAL 

Bookstore Basketball 
X X V 

Don't forget to pick up applications 
in Student Activities (3rd floor, 
LaFortune) if you want to be a 
Commissioner for the 25th 

Anniversary Bookstore Basketball 
tournament. Bigger, Better, 
Televised?? 

Help plan the world's largest out­door 5-on-5 hoop tournament. 
All Saint Mary's Faculty, 
Students and others interested 

in supporting gays and Lesbians 
Please come to a meeting 
at 12;15 p.m. on Tuesday 
in Room 306 Haggar. 
Be A Starl The Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination needs men and women to act and be a part of our campus-wide education on sex­ual assault. Training Is Sunday Sept. 17 and Oct. 1 from 12-Spm. Call Cella at 4-1332 for more infor­mation. 
00¢ THE COPY SHOP 00¢ 
LaFortune Student Center We're open for your convenlencefll Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight 
Fri.: 7:30am -7:00pm 
Sat.: Noon-6:00pm 
Sun.: Noon-Midnight (closed home football Saturdays) 
I QUIT. Really. I do. I mean it. I quit. 
@$"/o#'%$##"&.$#0/.1'&"$@1@ @#I 
Today Is the dayll Notre Dame Student Players meets tonight! 
Notre Dame Room, 2nd Floor Lafortune, 6 pm. 
Be there to help get things going. Be a part of the action and fun. 
$#1%"&.&$@ @!%$&)('%#%&'&%' 
Do you play Magic (M:tg) I'm trying to compile a list for playing, trading, and tournaments. If Interested, contact Nick at 234-0783 or E-mail me at Nicholas.Kanaras.1 @nd.edu 
Drummer looking for band. Call Dan x3549 
REMINDER TO FRESHMEN In Campus Community Introductions Program 
Special Fair TONIGHT CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 7:00 -8:30 pm 
BE THE REI 
TROOP NOTRE DAME 
The only hip-hop dance club at NO and SMC Is offering classes starting Tues., Sept 26. There will be two sessions, one 8-9 and one 9-10 In room 219 of the Knute Rockne Memorial. Questions? Call Charity at 284-4349 or Grace x4029. 
ATTENTION DANCERS: 
Guys and girls, Troop ND is holding tryouts for their performing team on Sunday, Oct. 29 at Washington Hall. (time TBA) 
Luuuke...How could you eat the 
eggs?? 
K & L: Procrastinators of America. 
Guru Tuna. R.I.P. 
Welcome to Farler's mobile tuna 
unit. 
Wah-Wahl Miss you, BM. I'm going through "That wasn't funny" withdrawal. Since I NEVER talk to you, we might as well communicate through the classifleds. How was the wedding? How Is Shannon? S will be In this weekend • let's drink Wodka and Kool aldl 
Delores Is a FISH KILLER. May 
she rot In he--. I miss Guru Tuna. 
Hi Mom and Dad Hutchinson. 
I love youll 
Treacy can flat out play darts. 
Hey sloppy girl, name that tune. 
Born In the USA, Piano Man, etc 
I win the bet. 
Toad, you better be working on that arm dance. Premiere -Thursday. 
BOSOX BOSOX BOSOX BOSOX Baseball hasn't sen the likes of Mo Vaughn since the days of Ted Williams. Sorry to say Tribe fans but El Presidents is going to be impeached by the Old Towne Team with Jose Canseco as the lead prosecutor. Timmy Naehring and the rest of the BoSox can just taste it. -screw the Curse of the Bambino. BOSOX BOSOX BOSOX BOSOX 
This Is how we do II. 

Soccer 
continued from page 20 
shots of the same kind and I wasn't making them, so finally I made one," Boxx added. "It was a perfect pass from Amy." 
"A lot of our success without Cindy has been because young players like Shannon have stepped up and met the chal­lenge," coach Chris Petrucelli said. 
Following Boxx's goal the first person there with the con­gratulatory-hug wore those same shoes that Boxx had been stepping in for. Daws, playing in her second game of the year, had entered the game with twenty minutes left in the first half with the game scoreless. 
Twenty minutes later it was no longer scoreless. 
"In the first half when she (Daws) went into the game, the game was even," Petrucelli said. "By the end of the first half, we were the dominant team. Every time she goes in, she changes· the game." 
Daws helped to change the complexion of the game by playing a part in the first goal shortly after her entrance. Be­fore sliding off her feet. Daws managed to find forward Michelle McCarthy who then saw Boxx. Boxx finished the passing clinic by delivering a perfect ball between defenders to midfielder Holly Manthei who put it past Stanford goalie Erin Bryla. 
"I thought we did very well 
and I was happy," Daws said. 
"I'm kind of varying which 
games I play in. To play in a 
game like this against Stanford, 
it was good to be out here to 
have the opportunity to get 
back into it after being out for 
so long." 
However, Daws also admits that things are not back to nor­mal yet. 
"I'm experiencing a lot of pain," Daws added. "I would say I am about sixty percent right now." 
Despite registering four shots on goal all day, Stanford spent a majority of the second half on the Irish's side of the field, a sight that Notre Dame is not accustomed to. Stanford's con­stant pressuring of the ball allowed then to penetrate the offensive end. 
"In the second half you're up 2-0 and you got to be a little more conservative," Petrucelli noted. "Probably for the first time all year we were a little conservative in our attacking. Part of that had to do with the wind. Part of that had to do with the fact that Holly wasn't on the field." 
Manthei turned an ankle which she has had previously injured on several occasions. 
"Its just a weak ankle," Petrucelli said. "I think that by next weekend she'll be fme." 
In the shutout over the Spar­tans, the Irish defense played with an intensity that set the tone for the game, holding Michigan State to four shots. 
"We gave them one chance early, but then buckled down," Petrucelli said. 
"The whole team played 
great defense," defender Kate 
Sobrero added. "We stressed 
defense and went out and kept 
on top of them." 
As part of that defensive as­
pect, the Irish countered the 
aggressive play of the Spartans 
with a little of their own as 
Petrucelli helped emphasize 
the need for physicality at half­
time. 
"We had to go out a lot hard­
er and be just as physical as 
they were," Sobrero said. 
With the Spartans' physical 
play neutralized, the Irish 
Monday, September 18, 1995 

The Observer· SPORTS 

could concentrate on offense as freshman Monica Gerardo tal­lied her tenth goal of the year to open the scoring. After Boxx's goal, McCarthy put the game away in the second half as she controlled a feed out of midair from Ragen Coyne and scored. 
"When it was 2-0, I thought the game could have gone ei­ther way," Petrucelli said. "The third goal was very important. It was a great goal." 
"From that point on, we shut them down," Sobrero com­mented. 
Along with Sobrero, Gerardo, McCarthy, and Irish goalkeeper Jen Renola were named to the All-Tournament team. 
As for the weekend, Petrucelli located a simple superlative to describe two dominating per­formances. 
"It was a great weekend," Petrucelli said. "Hopefully we'll have more of them." 


Attention Athletes Come Join the 
Greatest Show on Earth!!! 
If You Were a Varsity Athlete in High School and Would Like to Participate as a Member of Another Team Sport, 

wear running shoes! 

------------~--~----------------------·~--·-----~ ~ 
Monday, September 18, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• BASEBALL 
Boston defeats Cleveland in ALCS playoff preview 
By CHUCK MELVIN Associated Press 
CLEVElAND 
The Boston Red Sox blew a live-run lead but then capital­ized on Alvaro Espinoza's dou­ble error for two runs in the eighth inning Sunday, beating tile Clevehind Indians 9-6. 
The victory, coupled with the New York Yankees' 2-0 loss at Baltimore, lowered Boston's magic number for clinching the AL East to two. The Hed Sox went 3-7 on their 10-game road trip. 
With Lee Tinsley on second and the score tied 6-6 in the eighth, Espinoza bobbled Mike Macfarlane's grounder to shortstop for one error, then threw the ball into the dugout trying to catch Tinsley round­ing third. Tinsley was awarded home and Macfarlane took third, and pinch-hitter Matt Stairs followed with an HBI double. 
Carlos Hodriguez added a run-scoring single in the ninth. 
JeiT Suppan (1-2) got his first career win, pitching 1 2-3 scoreless innings. Hick Aguilera pitched the ninth for his 29th save in 33 chances. 
Paul Shuey (0-2) allowed two runs -one unearned -in 1 1­3 innings after being recalled from Class AAA Buffalo before the game. 
The game, played in a steady drizzle, was interrupted several times while groundskeepers worked to keep the field playable, particularly around the pitcher's mound. 
Cleveland starter Dennis Martinez, unable to adjust to the sloppy conditions. left after giving up two runs in the first inning. It was his shortest out­ing since April 15, 1993, when he failed to record an out for Montreal against Houston. 
Boston's Mike Maddux couldn't hold a 6-1 lead, as the Indians tied it with live runs in the sixth inning. Jim Thome finished Madduz with a three­run home run, his 24th, and Billy Ripken and Manny Hamirez had RBI singles in the inning. 
Albert Belle drove in Cleveland's first run with a double in the fourth. 
Boston scored twice in the first on Jose Canseco's single and a sacrifice fly by Tim Naehring. Mike Greenwell hit an RBI single off John Farrell in the third, and Boston chased Farrell with three in the sixth on an RBI groundout by Macfarlane, Luis Alicea's sacri­fice fly and Dwayne Hosey's RBI single. 
Maddux allowed five runs and seven hits in five-plus innings in only his third start in 34 appearances this year. 
Notes: With his double in the fourth, Belle became the first Cleveland player to hit 50 dou­bles in a season since Odell Hale had 50 in 1936. ... Canseco has hit safely in 34 of his last 36 games.... Farrell was making his first appear­ance in an Indians uniform since 1990. He missed 1991 and 1992 because of arm prob­lems and was with the California organization for most of the last two years.... Mo Vaughn has a chance to become the first Boston player with 100 runs, 40 homers and 100 RBis since Jim Rice had 121 runs, 46 homers and 139 RBis in 1978. Vaughn has 94 runs, 38 homers and 119 RBis. 
Dodgers take wild card lead 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS 
ln a twisted sort of way, Ismael Valdes has been a model of consistency for the Los Angeles Dodgers. 
When he wins, the victories come in bunches. Same thing when he loses. 
"When he geij; some consis­tency, he's going to be some­thing," manager Tommy Lasorda said after Valdes tossed a two-hitter Sunday to lead the Dodgers over the St. Louis Cardinals 8-0. 
The Dodgers' deficit in the NL West was reduced to one game when Colorado lost 17-0 to . Florida later Sunday after· noon. Los Angeles maintained 
its  1  1/2-game  lead  over  
Houston in  the  wild  card  
standings.  

Valdes' victory, in which he struck out nine, didn't issue a walk and faced only 29 bat­ters. ended his personal four­game losing streak. 
He allowed a thtrd*inning single to Scott Hemond and a sixth-inning infield single to Bernard Gilkey. · "He can be a great o:ne.. He's 
country." The Irish will put their un­

Irish 
defeated record to the test this weekend as they host no. 17continued from page 20 

Texas on Friday and no. 15 outstanding examples for Colorado on Saturday. Coach Treadwell, but also can be diffi­Brown is happy with the team's cult performances to live up to. progress and performance thus However, Treadwell has no far this season and looks to the problem finding her way upcoming weekend as a major around the court and has noth­stepping stone on the way to ing but praise for her team­achieving the goals set for mates. themselves this season. 
"Being the only freshman is "We're starting the toughest hard, but our team chemistry is part of our schedule and it's great," Treadwell said. important that everyone on our "Playing at Notre Dame, I play team is ready to contribute. with the best players in the We'll have to be at our best 
when we play Texas and 
Colorado." 
got all the stuff. But you have 
to remember he's only 22," 
Lasorda said. 
The right-hander won five 
straight from June 1-23, lost 
four straight from June 28­
July 16, won four in a row 
from July 21-Aug. 1, won 
three in a row Aug. 11·21 and 
lost four straight before 
Sunday. 
"He's still learni~g." said 
Dodger catcher Mike Piazza. 
who his his 30th home run, 
"but he's got such great stuff. 
Every time he goes out there, ·he's learning more." 
Valdes (12·11), who has fve 
complete games in 25 starts, 
agreed. 
"You make mistakes and you 
learn from them. When you go 
out, you try not to make those 
mistakes again." 
There wasn't much he did 
wrong Sunday. 
"He spotted the ball well and he had good velocity," Bernard Gilkey said. "He had everything working, and when a guy can keep the ball down and hit the corners, it's going to be tough. He hides the ball very well where it just kind of jumps UJ;> on you." 

''It was tough to pick up," agreed John Mabry. "We hadn't seen much or him this year, but I don't know if that had anything to do with it." 
Valdes had plenty of support. Piazza and Eric Karros (No. 
29) hit home runs and Delino DeShields tied a career high with three stolen bases and drove in a run with a double. Roberto Kelly and Tim Wallach also contributed two UBis apiece as St. Louis blast· ed Cardinals starter Allen Watson (6-8). 
"Any pitcher will tell you it's nice to have a big lead to pitch with," Valdes said. "I had good support from the hit­ters." 
Although they dropped 2-of­3 to Los Angeles, the Cardinals still had a 7-2 homestand, their most successful of the year. 
Los Angeles took a 2-0 lead in the second when Raul Mondesi tripled, DeShields doubled and stole third and Kelly singled off the glove of third baseman Jose Oliva. 
Wallach's RBI single made it 3-0 in the fourth. 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
GO FAR 

IN THE AIR FORCE. 
~=-=--=-= 

• 
great starting pay 

• 
medical and dental care 

• 
30 days vacation with pay per year 

• 
management opportunities 


Go far in a career as an Air Force officer. Call AIR FORCE OPPORTUNITIES TOLL FREE 1-800-423-USAF --·­
~---. -----.. 

______....,_..._.._,
t::::::::::::::::::::::::~~~..... -.. 
......... ....,_.~----_, 
= ­

• MEN'S SOCCER 
Sixth-ranked Notre Dame falls to Seton Hall 
Irish struggle in Big East road trip 
By DYLAN BARMMER Spons Writer 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team had a difficult time in their first ever Big East road trip, dropping games to Rutgers and Seton Hall. The losses moved the Irish record to 3-2 overall, and 1-2 in the Big East. 
The Irish came into Friday night's game against Rutgers ranked #6 in the ISAA poll, with Rutgers right behind them at #7. A regular season record crowd of 5,636 was on hand to witness the game, most of them probably not expecting to see a shoo tout. 
Rutgers was aggressive from the opening kickoff, but it was the Irish who struck first. The game's first goal came when Notre Dame's Bill Lanza, after being knoeked down inside the Rutgers box, dished the ball off to a charging Chris Mathis on the ensuing free kick. Mathis beat the defender on the left side, and buried the ball in the right corner of the net to put the Irish on the board just 7:15 into the game. 
As shocked as the crowd ap­peared after Mathis' early goal, they were even more awestruck when Irish captain Tony Capasso pushed the lead to 2-0 when he beat goalie Steve Widdowson from the same spot where Mathis had opened the scoring two minutes earlier. 
Rutgers struck right back, when, less than a minute later, midfielder Phil Napolitano broke through the Irish defense and chipped the ball over the head of charging goaltender Peter Van de Ven. 
Van de Ven was able to make a brilliant save off a penalty kick when he stoned forward Hamisi Amani-Dove, but he couldn't stop the Rutgers star when he came back down the Irish's throat at the 28:29 mark to knot the score at 2-2. 
The Scarlet Knights then exploded in the second half, scoring three goals in just over 2:30, and essentially putting the game away. The floodgates opened when forward Rob Johnson, Rutgers other star forward, took the whole de­fense with him on a sideways run before putting a shot past Irish freshman goalie Greg Velho. 
Less than two minutes after Johnson's goal, freshman John Rath pushed the Rutgers lead to 4-2. Amani-Dove put the nail in Notre Dame's coffm just 17 seconds later, when he stole the ball off the ensuing kickoff and fired a hard, low shot past a flustered Velho at the 55:40 mark of the game to preserve a 5-2 victory. The win put both teams at 3-1. 
"We just were unable to match up with their front run­ners," commented Notre Dame head coach Mike Berticelli. "We don't have the athleticism yet in the back to play against two top-caliber forwards. We had guys marking them in the back who have never played in the college game until this year. 

We broke down in the back." 
Sunday's match with the Pi­rates of Seton Hall saw much of the same, as lapses in the Irish backfield, particularly in the box, enabled Seton Hall to walk off the rain-drenched field with a 4-1 win. 
Seton Hall forward Mike Ma­garinos put the Pirates on the board when he put a header past Van de Ven at the 17:41 mark of the game. 
The senior Spaniard wasn't fmished there, as he added two more goals on penalty kicks to give him a hat trick in the game's first half. 
The defensive problems which plagued the Irish against Rutgers continued against Se­ton Hall, and costly fouls in the box did them in. 
Seton Hall went up 4-0 on a goal by Peter Gonzalez, and the wearied Irish weren't able to get on the board until the game's final minute, when mid­fielder Konstantin Koloskov recorded his first goal of the season. Koloskov's goal ended a two game stretch in which the Irish had been outscored by a 9-0 margin. 
The Irish were outshot 18-14 in the game, and the absence of Bill Lanza, who left with a hip strain just ten minutes into the game, was quite obvious. 

Join Student Government in sending Lou Holtz a get well message. Come to the Library Concourse all this week between 7 and 1 OR Create your own special message wfor Lou to be compiled in a book w:m l1tJ ofwishes.IACTIONIEOOml STUDENT GOVERNMENT Your entry must be on an 8 1/2 x 11 sheet of paper and submitted to the Student Government Office on the 2nd floor of Lafortune or to the Library Concourse by Thursday, September 21. Ifyou have any questions, please contact Student Government at lx7668!  

---------------------------------------------. 
Monday, September 18, 1995 The Observer· SPORTS page 17 
• SAINT MARY'S VOLLEYBALL 
Belles take third at Ohio Northern Tournament 
By CAROLINE BLUM Saint Mary's Spans Editor 
They found it. This weekend, the Saint Mary's volleyball team found the element they have been searching for since the beginning of the season, and it earned them an impressive third place finish in the Ohio Northern Tournament. 
The element could not have arrived at a better time than this weekend. Not only did the Belles earn regional recognition for their third place finish, but national as well. 
Most importantly, the team has proven the only element they need for success lies in the recognition of their capability. 
"I keep telling the team that they need to give 200 percent," said head coach Julie Schroeder-Biek. "200 percent results from a 100 percent of mental effort and 100 percent of physical effort. I do not think my players understood that they were capable of 200 per­cent until this weekend. They forgot about how they were feeling physically and mentally, and just played the game-200 percent." 
The Belles opened the tour­nament Friday night with two 
Withoutyou Campus Ministry doesn't have a prayer! 
This Is Your Last Chance! ! 
Students, Faculty, and Staff are invited and encouraged to compose a personal prayer for a new Notre Dame Campus Book of Prayers to be published this year. 
We would like original prayers that reflect daily and seasonal life on campus; prayers that deal with personal concerns, places, events, issues, relationships, etc. that reflect one's life and experience at Notre Dame. 
Prayers are to be submitted no later than November 1, 1995 and can be sent to Campus Ministry -Badin Hall, C/0 Prayer Book Team. 

and Native American peoples ofthe region ... 
Informational meeting Wed. September 20@ 7:30p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns (C. S.C.) 
Some knowledge of Spanish required 
0 0 
0 
tough losses. The first was in four games to Centre College, 6-15, 15-11, 6-15, and 7-15. Thomas Moore also kept the Belles on their toes in a four­game match win 5-15, 15-11, 17-15, 5-15. 
"Friday night we were not passing the ball," said Schroeder-Biek. "We can not run our offense when we do not pass the ball." 
After the games Friday evening, Schroeder-Biek spoke to her players about the next day's games. She alerted them that if they wanted to be suc­cessful in the tournament, they could not loose another game. The team took kindly to her words, with two three-game match wins Saturday. 
Their first win was over Muskingum, 15-9, 19-17, 15­
12. Because of their high scores and performance level in the match, Saint Mary's was awarded second place in their pool, and promoted to the fi­nals. 
"We knew we could play bet­ter than we did on Friday," said freshman outside attacker Kelli Lovell. "After we won the first game on Saturday, we realized how to play together and that we were capable as a team." 
At the finals the Belles were matched up with nationally­ranked Wittenberg in the battle for third place. They defeated Wittenberg in three quick games, 15-7. 15-7, 15-11. The Belles then were named third place champions, behind na­tionally ranked Thomas and 
T 

eO 


Ohio Northern Colleges. 
"Saturday we were successful in passing, digging, and han­dling free balls. All of our hard work this season paid off and we finally learned focus," said Schroeder-Biek. "The way we played, I do not believe that there was a team there that could beat us." 
The team's success was a team effort, according to Schroeder-Biek. Senior Sara Stronczek led the team's middle attack in the tournament with 45 kills and 45 digs. She was satisfied with the team's third place finish and their ability to take control early. 
Team strength also stemmed from sophomore setter Kelly Meyer's great job of running the offense. Meyer had 165 assists in the tournament, as well as 48 digs. 
"Meyer did a great job of sending the ball over on a sec­ond-ball dig," said Schroeder­Biek. "What was so motivating to me was to see her and the rest of the team put everything we had learned into action." 
Schroeaer-Biek also acknowl­edged her team's outstanding subbing ability this weekend. Among those who helped out was sophomore outside at­tacker Arwen Dickey. Dickey. who had been sidelined with tendonitis in her ankles, re­turned to practice last Monday. 
"We played our hearts out Saturday. Our offense and de­fense were both really consis­tent. Finally, everything came together," said Stronczek. 
server 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Associate Accent Editor 
Please submit one page personal statement to Krista Nannery in 314 LaFortune by 2 p.m. 9122. journalism experience required! 
'tfBe a Star!'tf Campus Amance for Rape Elimination 
will be holding AUDITI 0 N Sfor men and women to act in their new campus-wide production. 
Call Cs/ia at 4-1332 for mors information 
1/i~0t;::~z;;.. 
.. 

•NFL 
Elway's last-second miracle pass saves Broncos 
By JOHN MOSSMAN 
Associated Press 
DENVER The king of comebacks did it again Sunday. 
John Elway threw a 43-yard touchdown pass to rookie Rod Smith on the final play of the game and gave the Denver Broncos a 38-31 victory over the stunned Washington Redskins. 
With the game about ready to go into overtime tied 31-31, Elway took the snap on a fourth down with 6 seconds left. He dropped back, then stepped up to avoid the rush and found Smith at the goal line. He leaped and beat the Redskins' Darrell Green to the ball. 
The 35-year-old Elway now has his the 35th fourth-quarter comeback of his career. 
Brian Mitchell's kick returns and Gus Frerotte's three TD passes pulled the Redskins (1­
2) into a tie, but the Broncos went 80 yards in eight plays in the fmal 67 seconds to steal the game. 
Mitchell had five kickoff returns for 188 yards and a punt return for 52 more. 
Elway hit Ed McCaffrey on a 19-yard pass to approach mid­field. Then, on fourth-and-tO, Elway delivered another sensa­tional finish. Although he was knocked around ·by the Washington pass rush all day, Elway completed 30 of 4 7 pass­es for 327 yards and two TDs. 
The Broncos (2-1) scored on four straight possessions in the first half, the last a disputed touchdown, for a 24-14 half­time lead. 
The Broncos marched 77 yards in 17 plays, including five Elway completions, for Jason Elam's 20-yard field goal. 
Washington (1-2) countered moments later. Mitchell re­turned the ensuing kickoff 37 yards, then dashed 36 yards off the right side for the TD with 
10:53 left in the half. 
Denver reclaimed the lead on Rod Bernstine's 1-yard dive with 5:54 left. The Broncos made it 17-7 on Elway's 8-yard TD pass to Terrell Davis with 
•NHL 
Whalers defeat Flames in exhibition opener 
Associated Press period after linemate Andrew 
Cassels intercepted a clearingSAINT JOHN, New Brunswick pass by defenseman Phil Jeff Reese made 18 saves in Housley. Rice scored on a 15­
his 40 minutes of playing time footer between Jason 
as the Hartford Whalers Muzzatti's pads to give the opened their NHL exhibition Whalers a 3-1 lead. season with a 4-3 win over the Whalers rookie Scott Daniels Calgary Flames on Sunday scored an unassisted goal at night. 3:30 of the first. Cassels made 
On a night that featured a it 2-0 at 7:11 from the top of 
steady stream of players to the the crease. penalty box -referee Scott Rookie Marty Murray scored Zelkin called the new obstruc­for Calgary at 10:08 of the sec­tion penalty 21 times -the ond on a 10-foot backhander, Whalers outplayed a Flames the only goal that Reese team that was missing holdout allowed. Theo Fleury and injured play­After Rice and Andrei 
ers Gary Roberts and Joe Nikolishin gave Hartford a 4-1 Nieuwendyk. lead after two periods, defense­Steve Rice scored the pivotal men James Patrick and Housley goal at i i:32 of the second scored late goals for Calgary. 
The Observer 
is now hiring for the following position: 
Assistant Systems Manager 
Ifyou are interested in learning more about Macintosh computers and have some proficiency, please contact Sean Gallavan at 631-8839. Freshmen are encouraged to apply. 
1:50 to go in the half. It was the first of three TDs for Davis. 
On the next play, linebacker Elijah Alexander intercepted a tipped pass at the Washington 
30. Davis caught a 15-yard pass, then ran 9 yards and finally went 6 yards over the middle for the score. Television replays, however, showed he was stripped of the ball short of the goal line and fumbled into the end zone, where it was re­covered by Washington's Tom Carter. After conferring, offi­cials awarded the touchdown. 
Trailing 24-7 with 44 seconds left in the half, the Redskins scored on Frerotte's 5 yard pass to Marc Logan -the first of three straight Washington scores as the Redskins battled back to a 24-24 tie. 
Frerotte passed 18 yards to Logan and 28 yards to Henry Ellard to set up his 7 -yard toss to Leslie Shepherd for another TD. 
Mitchell's 52-yard punt return set up Eddie Murray's tying 21-yard field goal. 
Elway then drove the Broncos 80 yards in 13 plays for a 31-24 lead with 4:53 left. Davis ran for 7 yards on fourth-and-2 and scored from the 1. 
Frerotte brought the Redskins right back, thanks to Mitchell's 56-yard kickoff return to the Denver 40. Frerotte hit tight end Scott Galbraith on a 1-yard scoring pass with 1:07 left, pro­ducing a 31-31 tie. 
Chiefs 23, Raiders 17 (OT) 
If the Kansas City Chiefs ever learned to play the first three quarters, they'd be unbeatable. 
So far, they're just unbeaten. 
James Hasty returned an interception 64 yards for a touchdown 4:27 into overtime to give the Chiefs a 23-17 win over the Oakland Raiders on Sunday. 
It was the second week in a row that Kansas City (3-0) came back from a fourth quar­ter deficit to win in an extra period -last week they scored twice in the final five minutes to tie it, then beat the New York Giants, 20-17 in overtime. 
"We've raised the ticket prices, people have to get their money's worth," said Kansas City coach Marty Schottenheimer. "But I don't know if I can take 20 games at this pace." 
For the Raiders (2-1), it proved that the red demon from Kansas City that plagued them during their 14 years in Los Angeles won't disappear just because they're back in Oakland. 
They dominated for three quarters, led 17-7 entering the fourth period, but suddenly fell apart, losing for the eighth straight time at Arrowhead Stadium and the 11th time in their last 12 games with the Chiefs. 
Sentiment almost cost the Chiefs the game. 
With 1:52 left in regulation and the score tied at 17 -all, the Chiefs had a third and 1 from the Raiders' 2. 
They handed the ball to Marcus Allen, seeking his 1 OOth career touchdown against the team with whom he spent most of his career. But Jerry Ball, keying on Allen, dumped him for a 4-yard 'loss and then Lin Elliott pulled a 24-yard field­goal attempt left. 
Then Allen was almost the goat -fumbling on the Raiders' 38 after a 20-yard completion from Steve Bono on the first series of overtime. 
The Raiders moved to the Chiefs' 40, were set back by a penalty and then Jeff Hostetler tried to find Tim Brown to the outside. 
But Hasty darted into the passing lane and headed west -straight for the Raiders' goal line. Hostetler missed him at the Oakland 22 and Napoleon Kaufman made a last-gasp dive at the 4, but Hasty was in. 
The Chiefs scored first on Bono's 4-yard TD pass to Lake Dawson just four minutes into the game. 


If you are the kind of person who is interested in challenging rotational assignments, exposure to senior management, further educational development, and having input into the direction of your career, ACCENT or the Financial Management Development Program (FMDP) may be the right opportunity for you. 
Representatives from the ACCENT Program will be on campus for the Engineering Industry Day, so stop by our booth to learn more about this exciting opportunity in Information Systems. 
On October 30 both ACCENT and FMDP will be interviewing on campus, so sign up for an interview at the Career and Placement Office on September 25 & 26. Notre Dame graduates are doing great things at Travelers and this opportunity may be right for you too! 
Travelers at Notre Dame 
•Engineering Industry Day:  September 20,1995  
•Resume Drop Dates:  September 25 & 261995  
•On-Campus Interviews:  October 30, 1995  

Travelerslnsurance
..... 

A Member of TravelersGroupJ 
TravelenlnsW"OIICC, Hartford, CT 06183. We Are An Equal Opportunity Employer, Committed to Worlc Force Diversity. Travelen!nsurance actively promotes a drug-free worlcplacc. 
WHATTA SANDWICH! 
HOME OPENER 
.. NATIONAL CATHOLIC MEET 
THIS FRIDAY 
4:15 WOMEN I 5:00 MEN 
NOTRE DAME GOLF COURSE 

.. 
Monday, September 18, 1995 
The Observer • TODAY page 19 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE YOUR HOROSCOPE 
4o VRE Or< \liE. Foo-rSAC-L :I {Poet></, \kcp NOf•<•"C.. itAI'\7 ~('j-~OOt> (:,liM!>. '-\ov'tE Ot< \~ec f"oo,-&PM 
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER Ill, 1995 
()..< Si>Tvll.l>A"j·· -fEp,m ... ~ooP j•S '"" 
(For you~ personalized daily Jeane Dixon horoscope, based on your own 
/ 
!tJELICE<-<0· · · 
( 
''~'­

DILBERT 
SCOTT ADAMS 
r-----------------------~ur-------------------------,
,.. 
z

5TICK. TO TI-\E. SCRIPt ~ 
IT WAS WRONG FOR 
ACT SINCERE AND ~ 
US TO SELL 1\E..'<OOI\RDS 
0 
WIT\-\ NO "Q." WE'RE. 
! ~ 

SORRY. WE'RE MORONS. 

"'. 
~ 
... 
! 
c 
:::> 
.,
..
.. 
Q 
"' 

~----~~u_~~~----_j~·--~-----L~~~-U~WW~ 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Remit in 58 Devours advance 
82 Suffix with buck 1 Belgian Congo, 35 Rink surface 
today 83 Homeowners in 38 Bombeck who's a children's 
1 Midwest Indians "at wit's end" story10 Choir member 3&Trap &&Waiter's 14 Back-of-book 31 Bratty child handout feature phase 87 Army outfit 111 Narrow board 43"A--the 88 Clark's partner 11 Brandy fruit Dark" (1988 film) 88 Chimney grime 
44 "I cannot tell 70 Fountain treat 
17 Individually 
11Wan 411 WNW's opposite 71 Painter Max 20 Approached 4&Card game 21 Pipes.,leading to 48 Advantage 
DOWN
the roof 
110--Moines 
23 Hoity-toity sort 1 Holy Land 
111 20th-century211 Litigant 
illustrator 2 House of Stuart 21 Positive pieces 113 Sea eagles monarch of advice 
55 Stressful 3 Brainstorm 21 Arboreal locale position 
4 Brings up, as children ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 5 Reach 
a Fast plane 7 Poetic boxing 
champ a Author Albert 8 Increase, as 
27 Autumn color 48 Give power to 57---avail production 
28 Slangy goodbye 52 Prefix with 59 Cut, as logs 10 Obvious 
30 Rousseau work centric &o "QB VII" author 11 Secrecy 54 It may be bum 61 "Hey, you!" 
32 Handled 

problem 
indelicately 55 Sandwich meats 64 Eliminate 12 Paul Bunyan 33Came up 56 Sandwich 65 Second letter account cookie after epsilon 
34 Pro responses 13 Silver containers 
37 Stay 18 Worshiper 40 Grows weary 
22 Succinct Get answers to any three clues
41--nous 

by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
24Yogi--42 Infamous Simon 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
26 Jettison 47 Position 


date of birth, call 1-900-988-7788. Your phone company will bill you 99 
cents a mmute.) 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE New goals present themselves 
NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: today. Thinking about what you 
Your calm and confident manner have accomplished in the past will 
will make you a very good parent or help you plot future victories. Join 
teacher. Young people prove eager the computer revolution; advanced 
to follow your lead. Even if your technology saves you valuable time. 
expensive tastes make a redecorat­LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Use 
ing project a costly proposition. the your keen intellect to explore pro­
results will be worth it. Although found scientific subject~. Enrolling 
romance is exhilarating, a long-term in night school or taking weekend 
relationship may continue to elude classes will broaden your horizons. 
you. You are often attracted to those Romance is your mind this
on 

who are not ready to settle down. evening. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ):
THIS DAY: country singer Charley The emphasis now is on accepting
Pride, actress Holly Robinson, base­responsibility for your own actions. ball player Ryne Sandberg, leg­Think positive! Follow through on endary actress Greta Garbo. plans already underway. Excellent ARIES (March 21-April 19): communication skills let others You cannot afford to take anyone or know that you are in charge. Touch 
anything for granted now. Exercise base with special people. 
greater caution in financial matters. SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
Someone new .enters the romantic 21): Romantic partner may need to 
sweepstakes. spend some time alone. After a long 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): delay, a professional project finally An upcoming trip requires careful moves forward. A family member 
planning. Make reservations well in may act disgruntled. Deal with any advance. A friend offers useful problems in an upbeat manner. insights about your approach to life. CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. " 
Share your expertise with others. 19): Others may be confused by 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): your seemingly erratic behavior. Do Your financial expectations are met. not allow tensions to build to the A surge of confidence and energy breaking point. Athletic activity pro­
leads to new responsibilities and an vides a healthy outlet for nervous overdue raise. Widening your social energy. Shower your loved ones circle leads to valuable friendships. with affection. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Make the most of a professional A new hobby encourages you to opportunity! Technical skills could express yourself creatively. Remem­play a big role in your getting a raise ber, a project does not always have or promotion. Enrolling in a special to make money in order to make class will teach you what you need sense. Be careful not to give away to know. company secrets during "pillow LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): A beau­talk." tiful and orderly home is essential to PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): your sense of well-being. Without Complete business from the past constant nurturing a flowering talent few weeks. Tum the searchlight on could wither. Be diligent. Keep up bad habits and old fears. Making a to date with the latest developments fresh start will prove invigorating! A in your field. frank talk helps you feel closer to VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): your loved ones . 
• OF INTEREST 

Gerd Wagner, Minister Councilor for Political Affairs in the German Embassy in Washington D.C., will speak on "German Foreign Policyin its European and Transatlantic Perspective" today from 4:15 to 6:00 in room 118 of DeBartolo. .· The ND/SMC Mock Trial Team will be having a meet­ing tonight at 8:30 p.m. in the Montgomery Theater. Please bring $5 for case packet fees. If you cannot make it, please call Maribeth at 273-6875. 
Berkley Law Professor Phillip Johnson will discuss "Darwinism on Trial," the scientific and philosophical case against Darwinism tonight at 7:30 p.m. in room 101 of DeBartolo. There will be a question and answer session immediately following his talk. 
Notre Dame Student Players will hold their first meeting tonight at 6:00 in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune. All those interested in theatre or helping out in any way whould attend. Topics to be covered include our upcoming shows. 
•MENU Notre Dame  
North  South  
Beef and Onion Pizza Shrimp Stir FryIrish Brown Potatoes  Beef Fajitas Baked Redfish Cheese Ravioli  
Saint Mary's  •  
Hot Chicago Beef Sand which Southern Fried Chicken Rockefeller Pasta  

Do J'OU have a disciplinal)' hearing with Residence 11fe1 
Student Government Is available to assist students with their disciplinary hearings with Residence life. We are available to advise you before, during and after your hearing. 

TOMMATZZIE MARYBE»> MICAH 
Director ofAdvocacy
Judicial Council President & OliefCounsel 
ADJnfonn-rtlon IsheldtUstdctlyconJJdentlld


., 

....."....................................,.....................----------------------­
,-----~­
" 
I 
f 
I 
I ~ .. 
I 
\ 
f 
t 
I 
~ 
t 
I 
~ 
\ 
f 
I ~ 
I 
f 
t 
I 
I 
I I • 
~ 
r 
• 

Vandy swarmed under by Irish 
see Irish .Extra 

SPORTS 


18, 1995 
• WOMEN's SoccER 

Proof Positive 
Notre Dame costs past Michigan -state, Stanford 
By JOE VILLINSKI 
Assistant Sports Editor 

As freshman Shannon Boxx began her career on the wom­en's soccer team, she found herself stepping into some big shoes. 
Maybe not quite as large as the giant, inflatable Adidas soc­cer shoe that adorned Alumni Field this weekend, but fairly sizable. 
It was Boxx who began start­ing in the midfield as All­American Cindy Daws recov­ered from multiple injuries. It was also Boxx who stepped up in the first four Irish shutouts, scoring a goal and registering seven assists. 
With Daws still unable to start this weekend, Boxx once again played a key role as she scored a goal and added an assist in the Irish's 2-0 shutout over No. 3 Stanford. Boxx also scored the second goal of the game on Friday night against No. 19 Michigan State in a 3-0 victory and was named MVP of the Adidas/Notre Dame Invitational All-Tournament team. 
"Its been kind of tough step­ping in because Cindy is so good," Boxx said. "I know I can never fill her shoes. I'm just hoping to fill, not her shoes, but the empty space that is there." 
On Sunday, the only empti­ness that existed was in the back of the Stanford net as the Cardinal became the sixth straight opponent this year who could not tally a goal against Notre Dame. 
Boxx put the Irish ahead 2-0 against Stanford as she took a pass from junior Amy Van Laecke and launched a missile into the right corner of the net from 25 feet out. 
"I was pretty happy because the game before I kept taking 
see SOCCER I page14 


By BETSY BAKER Sports Writer 
For the second weekend in a row, the Notre Dame volleyball team won three matches in twenty-four hours to improve its record to 8-0 and win the Mortar Board Purdue Premier tour­nament. 
The Irish beat North Carolina State on Friday, and Oklahoma and Purdue on Saturday to claim its second tournament of the season. Once again, the Irish fought their way through pres­sore situations to claim the tournament, includ­ing two come-from-behind victories and an emo­tional third-game finish surviving two game point attempts against the Boilermakers. 
"Playing pressure points in this environment is great experience," Irish head coach Debbie Brown said of the team's 15-6, 15-7,18-16 victo­ry over Purdue. 
The Irish were led by sophomore outside hitter and tournament MVP, Angie Harris, whose power play contributed twenty kills and seven digs. Harris was joined on the All-tournament team by classmate Jaime Lee, who led the Irish defensive effort with a match-high ten digs, and freshman Lindsay Treadwell, who made the first major contribution of her collegiate career with seven kills and six block assists. 
Treadwell played an essential role in the Irish sweep of the tournament, playing in all nine games of the weekend, with an eleven-kill performance in the 15-2, 15-6, 15-6 victory over North Carolina State and a nine-kill effort in the 15-5, 15-6, 15-9 win against Oklahoma. 
"Lindsay had a great tournament and deserved to on the all-tournament team," Brown said of the freshman. 
Treadwell, the only member of the '95 recruit­ing class for the Irish, has been working to make . the adjustment to the collegiate level and appears to have done this as evident from the weekend. 
"It has definitely been a transition because col­lege volleyball is a lot faster. but my coaches have been great," said Treadwell. 
"They help me after every play and are con­stantly talking to me." Playing behind the power of Harris, Lee, and Juniors Jen Briggs and Jenny Birkner provides 
see IRISH I page 15 
Football Women's Soccer 
• Men's soccer drops two games 
Q.)
vs. Texas 

at Rutgers September 22, 7 p.m. 
September 23, 11:30 EST 

at St. Seton Hall September 24, 1 p.m. see page 16
'C
Volleyball 

Cross Country ...... • SMC volleyball takes third 
vs. Texas September 22, 8 p.m. 

at Valparaiso September 23 
see page 17 
vs. Colorado September 23, 7 p.m. 
CIJ 

SMC Sports • Redskins lose again 
Men's Soccer 

Soccer at Manchester September 18 
see page 18 

vs. Indiana September 22, 7:30 p.m. Volleyball at Concordia September 19 
~ 


... 




