
Thursday, October 5, 1995• Vol. XXVII No. 34 
TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Peacenet seeks to dismantle University ROTC 
Notre Dame military units make 
case for Catholic character 
By MEGAN McGRATH 
News Writer 
Integrity.  Service.  Excel­ 
lence. Traditions.  
They  could  be  values  

instilled in any Notre Dame student, especially according to the University's ideal as illustrated in the Colloquy for the year 2000. These four buzzwords, however. eame not from Notre Dame promotional material but from that of the University's Air Force ROTC detaehment. . As the. ~eacenet organi;l:ation steps up its efforts to convince Notre Dame to disband ROTC, the leaders and participants in the program find themselves in a familiar position • defending their mission at a Catholic uni­versity. 
"It is my hope that people will understand what we are attempting to accomplish," said Ueutenant Colonel James O'Brien, commanding officer of Army ROTC. "Our goal here is develop leadership." 
Indeed, for the students in­volved in ROTC, it is the leadership and managerial skills theyhave learned tl:lat are most important 
"I haven't learned how to drop a bomb or shoot a gun:/' Mary Plumb, a senior in the Air Force detachment, explained. "I have learned how to be a leader, a profes· sional, to pay strictattention to detail. The focus for me has been on decision making in stressful situations, in sticking up for what! belhwe in." ..•. 
For Plumb and other$ in ROTC, the objections orw-opps 
see ROTC/ page (,) 

By MELANIE LAFLIN 
Assistant News Editor 
"All we are saying is to re­store Our Lady's University to full autonomy under the Con­gregation of Holy Cross and the University Board of Trustees. Our· goal: a Pentagon-Free Notre Dame." 
In its third in a series of open letters to the Notre Dame com­munity, the group known as NO Peacenet has once again taken a stand against the 50­year old ROTC programs. The group favors a University Chair in Catholic Nonviolence. 
NO Peacenet, a union of graduates, faculty, students, and friends of the University, has been organized by co­chairs John Finnegan, 1970 Notre Dame graduate, and Frank Carver, 1944 Notre Dame graduate, to "generate ideas and influence for the re­placement of institutionalized militarism with peace and jus­tice alternatives at this Catholic University." 

The Peacenet's main objec­tive has always been an entire phase-out of the ROTC. As Carver stated in a recent inter­view, "the bonding between student and militarism contra­dicts the Catholic witness and mission of this University. Christ preaches forgiveness, compassion, and love. We see the ROTC as an adjunct of this University. This high-level re­lationship shows a true dedica­tion to the Pentagon." 
NO Peacenet's endorsements 
see PEACE/page 8 


Malloy deems future brighter than ever 
By DEREK BETCHER 
News Writer 
"There hasn't been a more exciting time in the history of the University than right now," began University President Fr. Edward Malloy, in his speech to over lifty students in the lobby of Morrissey Manor Wednesday night. llis talk on the direction of the University, followed by a half hour of questions from the audience, opened a Morrissey Spirit Week commemorating the dorm's seventieth year. 
Stated Malloy, "We want to preserve the essential elements of undergraduate education, but we'll try to increase across the board quality" as a general goal for the University. 
During the first portion of his speech, Malloy listed current advancements which illustrate the University's continued com­mitment to excellence. He men­tioned a recent $33 million expenditure to improve campus computing resources as exem­plary of the University's ambi­tions. In addition, the heralded conversions of Flanner and Grace and plans for a new Morris Inn, a new performing arts center, and new alumni of­fice/visitor center/bookstore complex were cited. 
According to Malloy, a com­mitment to improve financial aid will continue to be one of the University's top priorities. Efforts to increase Notre Dame's $1.1 billion endowment will be central to a fundraiser slated for 1997. 
"We're trying to build a se­cure financial structure for 
see MALLOY/page 8 
The Observer/Leslie Zllllnskl 

Ready, Set, Go! 

Saint Mary's students break from the starting line in their annual OktoberFest Run. 



Holy Cross Associates win AmeriCorps grant 

By SAMANTHA SNYDER 
News Writer 
Holy Cross Associates, a pro­gram which places recent col­lege graduates in service posi­tions throughout the country, has recently been named a re­cipient of a grant from Ameri­Corps Education Awards. 
The AmeriCorps grant will be awarded directly to the Catholic Network of Volunteer Services, which will in turn provide Holy Cross Associates with $4,725 upon completion of. one year of service. Participants may apply the award to student loans or grad­uate tuition for up to seven years after completing the ser­vice program. 
AmeriCorps, a newly-formed branch of the Corporation for National Service, awards its ed­ucational grants on a year-to­year basis. The question of whether or not the grant to Holy Cross Associates will be renewed is dependent upon Congress' decision to continue direct education funding. 
"We, like any program in­volved with AmeriCorps, can only plan one year at a time, but we have confidence that Congress and the President will resolve differences to allow for continued funding of the pro­gram in coming years," said John Pinter, director of Holy Cross Associates. 
Volunteers in the Holy Cross Associates service program are placed in various areas of the country through the help of the Catholic Network of Volunteer Services. This year, 39 partici­pants are serving in cities in Arizona, California, Colorado, Massachusetts, Oregon, and Pennsylvania. Another seven participants will spend two years volunteering in Chile. This venture will not be funded by AmeriCorps, which only al­lows its educational awards to be used for those participants who serve within the United States. 
Holy Cross Associates consists mostly of graduates from Notre Dame and St. Mary's, although alumni from other schools are eligible to participate as well. Associates live together in groups of live to seven, and are involved in a wide range of ser­
see HCA/page 8 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, October 5, 1995 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Who needs a suit anyway? 

• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Fragments of helicopter found, four crew members missing 

As mid-semester approaches, Notre Mary Kate Morton Dame students scurry-Associate News Editor 
ing around campus from Arthur Andersen to Deloitte and Touche to Price Waterhouse are recurring sights. That's right, it's INTERVIEW TIME! 
You can recognize interviewees by the ter­rified looks on their faces, the uncomfortable way they tug at their new, freshly-pressed suits and the standard pens and portfolios they sport in hopes of impressing the ever­intimidating interviewers. 
OK, maybe I lost some of you in this sce­nario. Let's rewind and I'll chat with the Arts and Letters majors in our midst. 
As mid-semester approaches, seniors enrolled in the College of Arts and Letters dart around campus in jeans and sweat­shirts, wearing terrified expressions because no one wants to interview them. After bat­tling with the officers of Career and Placement (ominously located in the base­ment of the Library), trying to convince them that, yes, in fact, I'd like a job and no, I'm not an accounting major, the A&L sucker panics and quickly runs to the business or CAPP office to sign up for "marketable" classes like C Programming and Tax-Corporate-Some­thing-or-Other. 
I think the suits are getting to me. I don't even own one and yet I have to suppress the urge to run, not walk, to the UP mall and pick one up. 
The choices are endless: taupe, tan, khaki. Navy, black, charcoal. Is black too boring and conservative? Is red too risque for the day time? The sleek one button variety or double-breasted or a pantsuit, even? Oh my God, can women wear pants? 
Why, 1 ask myself, am I even worrying about this? Most likely, I will never interview on this campus, since the fmance and sales worlds are not exactly recruiting government and french majors. What's more is that I've fmally realized that I don't want to be recruited for the business world. That's why I'm in Arts and Letters to begin with. 
Leo Burnett representatives came to cam­pus last week and sucked in the Arts and Letters senior population with their cute little dining hall table tents: So you're an English major? Well, Leo Burnett didn't major in advertizing either! 
Yes, I ventured to Senior Bar to see what 
Leo had to offer the Arts and Letters gradu­
ate-hopefuls: copywriting, design, perhaps 
some editing. Wrong! The catch phrase of 
the evening was: "You've never taking a mar­
keting class? Neither did we. They teach 
you at Leo Burnett!" Great, but if I had 
wanted to be taught how to market, I would 
have taken a marketing class. 
My intent is not to offend any of the busi­ness majors out there. Most of my friends 11.re in the College of Business Administration. I'm just a scared A&L student facing a highly uncertain future. I suspect that there are many like me out there. So next time you're bombarded by a sea of suits, my fellow A&L­ers. don't panic. There's always the Peace Corps ... 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
VIRGINIA BEACH, Va. 

Searchers today found some wreckage from a Navy helicopter that crashed 40 to 60 miles off the coast of Cape Henry. but are still trying to find its four-member crew. 
The H-46 Sea Knight helicopter operating from the amphibious assault ship USS Guam was reported missing at 9:30 p.m. Tuesday, said Cmdr. Kevin Wensing, spokesman for the Naval Air Force, Atlantic Fleet. 
Fragments of the aircraft were sighted a few hours after the Guam lost contact with it, Wensing said. 
The Guam launched a search effort with help from the oiler USS Kalamazoo. They were also joined by a Coast Guard cutter and helicopter, Wensing said. The dual-engine aircraft, which can carry about 12 people, was based at Norfolk Naval Air Station. The names of the missing crew members were not released. 
The cause of the crash was under investigation. 
Veto strategy: cut deals with Senate 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton's veto of a bill to fund Congress was a shot across the bow in a White House strategy to act and talk tough but to cut deals where possible with the Senate to avoid grid­lock. Even though Clinton has issued a scant three vetoes his 32 months in office, push is about to come to shove as more and more of the 13 bills need­


ed to keep government in operation reach his desk. He has signed one, vetoed another and has veto threats out on seven of the remaining 11. Clinton needs to get some vetoes under his belt to show that the threats aren't hol­low, but too many vetoes could backfire if Clinton is per­ceived as an agent of gridlock. He is trying to use his veto in a way that takes advantage of Republican divisions and pits the House against the Senate. He is making the most noise where GOP positions are the shakiest and his own views the strongest -cuts in education, in environ­mental protection, in crime prevention. Among the spending bills Ointon has threatened to veto: legislation that would kill the direct college loan program, dismantle his prized AmeriCorps youth-service program and under­mine last year's commitment for 100,000 more police officers. In addition, he has threatened vetoes on 18 other pieces of legislation, ranging from a telecommuni­cations bill to legislation opening the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to development. 
Provocative ads bring business 
GREAT NECK, N.Y. 
This is definitely not something they teach in law school. Mortgage lawyer Rosalie Osias' firm has gone from five closings a week to 40 or 50 since she began appearing in provocative ads in trade publications in April. In one ad, the slender Osias. wearing a pantsuit, vest and sunglasses, is lying on her side and toying with a golf club, her long blond hair draped over her shoulders. The ads reads: "We don't play golf. We're too busy clos­ing your loans." In another ad. Osias is spread across her desk in a micro-miniskirt, wearing a flirtatious grin. "Try this nonconforming law firm" says the ad. "I was solicit­ing a male market," Osias said Tuesday. "Mortgage banking is an old-boy network. I needed something sexu­al to get them to notice." Osias, who is in her 30s, said that before she started running the ads, her business was barely surviving. By ads No. 3 and 4, male bankers were running to introduce themselves to her. "Maybe the ads brought in clients, but once they were inside my door, I delivered," she said. "I gave them exactly what they wanted-good clean business closings." As for the criti­cism, she said: "As a lawyer I had to be very careful not to cross over the line of impropriety. I don't think I've crossed that line." 
Divers pull ancient statue from sea 
ALEXANDRIA, Egypt 
Discarding the pick and brush of their colleagues, Egyptian and French archaeologists used a tugboat, crane and parachute Wednesday to haul a 2,000-year­old statue from its undersea resting place. Struggling against high winds and waves, the team retrieved the red granite torso of a woman from a patch of sea off Alexandria that contains hundreds of Egyptian and Greek statues and temples, many lying in pieces. Littered among the ruins are the remains of the white marble Pharos lighthouse, one of the wonders of the ancient world and for centuries the symbol of the city Alexander the Great built. The team hopes to recover at least one piece of the colossal lighthouse and a broken. half-man, half-lion sphinx among the 20-30 relics it plans to retrieve in the next few days. "You cannot imagine what a sensation it is to see fish playing with the sphinx," said Jean-Yves Empereur, director of the French Center of Alexandrian Studies. On Wednesday, two black rubber boats carried six divers to the area of the Greek statue. With waves and white foam bobbing the boats up and down, the divers tied a deflated white parachute to the statue. Inflated, it lifted the 1 1/2-ton torso off the seabed, allowing the statue to be dragged into the harbor by tugboat. There, the team used a crane to lift the 5-foot tall statue a few yards above the sea and on to dry land for the first time in centuries. Still baffling the team is exactly how the ruins ended up on the seabed. 
California fire burns 40 buildings 
INVERNESS, Calif. 
Brisk sea breezes fanned the embers of an illegal campfire into a blaze that raced to the rocky Pacific Coast on Wednesday, destroying more than 40 buildings on the scenic Point Reyes peninsula. Hundreds of people were forced from their homes as the wildfire spread across 2,000 acres of dust-dry Bishop pine and dense brush. About 1,000 frrefighters battled the blaze, using bulldozers to plow up a firebreak along the southern flank and cutting through the brush by hand. "We're worried about those winds," Lionel Blanks said. Air tankers and helicopters dumped water and fire retar­dant. The blaze started Tuesday afternoon near Mount Vision, about 35 miles north of San Francisco, when sea breezes apparently rekindled the buried embers of a campfire and winds gusting to 30 mph sent the flames sprinting through groves of pines that burned "like Roman candles," said the Marin County fire prevention officer, Chris Collins. The blaze was only 20 percent con­tained, reaching the Pacific at about 2 a.m. Fire officials said they would make a stand on its southern flank. An estimated 30,000 acres of pine forest. along with a scat­tering of houses and ranches, lie to the south; fire hasn't touched the area in more than 65 years. 


News  Viewpoint  
Heather Cocks  Josh Pichler  
Melanie Laflin  Brandon Williams  
Sports  Production  
Mike Day  Peter Ashmeade  
Graphics  Heather Dominique  
Tom Roland  Jackie Moser  
Lab Tech  
Mike Hungeling  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the: Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Thursday, Oct. 5 

Accu-Weather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
ILL. 
• 

Via Associated Press GraphicsNet C 1995 AccuWeather, Inc. 


The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Oct. 5. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1995 AccuWeather, Inc. Pressura ~ ~ ,.-f\
H L B ESI [TI] 0 !Z3E3 ~~c..........!. 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT: CLOUDY CLOUDY 
V1s Assoc/stl:ld Press  
Atlanta  82  62  Dallas  76  50  New Orleans 85  65  
Baltimore  63  67  Dayton  74  57  Philadelphia 63  69  
Boston  70  59  Denver  61  33  Phoeoix  94  63  
Calgary  50  37  Las Vegas  65  53  San Diego  63  61  
Chicago  59  55  Milwaukee  60  54  Yonkers, NY 75  66  

~--~ -~--~-~----~--~--.. 
Thursday, October 5, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
• ACLOSER LOOK Ar••• THE ACADEMIC COUNCL 


Academic Council gets underway for the year 

By BILL CONNOLLY Provost, Rev. Timothy Scully, Council on a rotating basis be­News Writer and the dean of each College. tween the four Colleges. Also present in the Council Besides setting academic 
Once every month, a council are 19 elected faculty mem­policies, the Council also con­meets to determine the general bers, chosen by and from the siders the recommendations of academic policies and regula­faculty of the respective Col­the Graduate Council, approves 
Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. (President),
tions of the University of Notre leges, the School of Architec­major changes in the require­Dame. ture, and the Law School, as ments for admission to and This group, the Academic well as the Library Faculty and graduation from the Colleges 
Timothy O'Meara, E. William Beauchamp, 
Council, met this past Tuesday the Special Professional Fac­and Schools, and in the pro­
C.S.C., Roger Schmitz, Timothy Scully, 
to discuss varying issues, from ulty, in numbers proportional gram of study offered by Col­
C.S.C., Patricia O'Hara, Nathan Hatch,
the reappointment of Eileen to the size of the faculty leges, Schools, and Depart­
Harold Attridge, Francis Castelllno, Jonas
Kolman as Dean of the Fresh­involved. Faculty members ments. 
McDavlt, Ed Wlngenbach, Matthew 
man Year of Studies to Student may be elected and reelected The Council also has the 
Fitzgerald, Catherine Schehr, John Keane,
Government's plans for the an­for a term of three years, so power to authorize the estab­
Swartz David Link, Anthony Michael, Robert C.
nual Guide. that one-third of the member­lishment, modification, or dis­The Council's decisions cover ship is elected each year. continuance of any academic 

.....-----. Miller, Richard McBrien, Frank Bonello,
Cornelius Delaney, Michael Francis, Garymultiple issues; those decisions In addition, there are four organization of the University, 
are made by a wide variety of student members; one is the and to provide for review, 
Gutting, Jean Porter, John Roos, Thomas 
members, including ligures in Academic Commissioner of the amendment, and final interpre­
Swartz, Mario Borelli, William Shephard,
the administration and Notre Student Government, senior tation of the Academic Articles. 
Andrew Sommese, Hafiz Atassl, Carolyn
Dame students. The Council Jonas McDavit. Another, Ed The decisions of the Council are 
Callahan, Edward Conlon, Douglas Kmiec,
consists of 15 Ex-Officio mem­Wingenbach, represents the passed by a majority vote and 
Dennis Dorrdan, Lorry Zeugner, Regina Coli,
b.ers, including the President, Graduate School students. Two are subject to the approval of 
C.S.J.; Kathleen Maas Weigert, Matthew
Rev. Edward Malloy, who undergraduate members, se­the President, and, in certain chairs the Council; the Provost. nior Matthew Fitzgerald and instances, the Trustees of the 
Gasaway, Michael Slrtorl and Dyan Rohol
Scully
Professor Timothy O'Meara; the senior Catherine Schehr, are University. Vice President and Associate selected each year by the 
,....... 

•Considers 
recommendations of Graduate Council 

•Sets 
academic policy 

•Approves 
major changes in admissions requirements 



Council to deliberate issues of harrassment, academics 
By HEATHER COCKS nature are common to Council meetings. "We News Writer just want to ensure that there are never any inconsistencies or problems that we have not 
The Academic Council held its first business recognized and dealt with," he stated. meeting Tuesday, already greeted with a full In addition, a report compiled by the Graduate agenda. College was presented, briefing the Council on 
Among the items discussed were two campus the current use of student teachers. offices independently seeking the Council's rec­Conlon commented that the members appreci­ommendation for a name change. ate such notifications because "they keep us 
The Freshman Year of Studies proposed "The informed as to what is going on, so that we are First Year of Studies" as their new title, and the prepared should we be called upon to make any Department of University Computing is looking to recommendation in the future." be renamed The Office of Information Vice-President and Assistant Provost Father Technology. Tim Scully listed "the appeals mechanism for 
Both alterations received support from the faculty not granted tenure" as being a likely can­Council. Though it is the only faculty committee didate for review by the Academic Council; he that retains approval power over all changes to also mentioned the University Policy on Athletics academic programs, not every recommendation and the approval of a University Committee on is automatically approved elsewhere. Libraries. 
The Academic Council is one of many channels For the most part, however, he said that the through which the ideas must pass; the name contents of future agendas have not yet been changes will therefore not be implemented determined. immediately, as they are currently awaiting final "At the time of our meetings, any standing aca­approval from the University. demic issues will be brought to our attention, but 
The University's policies on sexual harassment it is tough to predict what most of them will be," and discrimination were also reviewed; Council he noted. Member and Chair of the Management De­Conlon concurred, adding that his personal partment Edward Conlon dubbed this more of an hope is to see the College of Business Admin­"FYI" than actual intense scrutiny. istration present a proposal for the creation of 
He remarked that information sessions of this Doctoral Program; he asserts, "It's the only College on campus without one." 
• STUDENT INVOLVEMENT 

Student representatives impact Council 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE President-Elect Jonathan This year, the student mem-Graduate Student which, in addition to determin­Assistant News Ediwr Patrick. hers of the Academic Council Representative Ed Wingeilbach ing "general academic policies Being a part of the are part of the Academic and regulations of the Students can influence the Academic Council is Council. University," include "consider­formation of academic pclicy at not the only respon-Bringing student con-ing recommendations of the Notre Dame, according to sibility of the Student cerns to the Academic Graduate Council," "approving Academic Commissioner of the Government Academic Council, all four student major changes in the require­Student Government Jonas Commissioner, accord-'Acurrent issue being discussed by representatives have ments for admission to and McDavit, who is one of four stu­ing to last year's h . .1. voting power in the graduation from the Colleges dent representatives and a A c a d e m i c t e Student Academic Counci IS Academic council. And and Schools," "authorizing the member of the executive com­Commissioner Stacey the "reshaping" of the Freshmen this, McDavit explained, establishment, modification, or mittee of the Academic Council. Kielbasa. S · d" J provides "an opportunity discontinuance of any academic 
According to the Academic He or she is also the emmar course, accor mg to onas for students to have a organization of the University," Articles, which are printed in head of the Student McDavit.' influence" in the forma-and "providing for review, the Notre Dame Faculty Academic Council, tion of academic policy amendment, and final interpre­Handbook, the four student which consists student at Notre Dame. tation of the Academic members on the Academic representatives from "We can put things on Articles." Council include the Academic each college, who are 'All four student representatives the agenda for Council A current issue being dis­
Commissioner of the Student selected by the deans meetings and offer poli-cussed by the Student Government. a student from the of each college. have voting power in the cy suggestions to the Academic Council is the "re­Graduate School or other pro­In the Student Academic Council.' administration," he said. shaping" of the Freshmen gram of advanced studies and Council, students talk "And we can react to Seminar course, according to two undergraduates "rotated about issues which are policy suggestions by the McDavit. among the four Colleges." on the agenda of the administration through The Student Academic 
As explained by McDavit, the Academic Council. The our votes." Council will try to build a con­Commissioner is appointed by Student Academic According to the sensus "in terms of changing the Student Body President. Council also elects three other are undergraduates Catherine Academic Articles, the student the role of graduate students in When McDavit applied for the of its members, who along with Schehr of the College of Science members of the Academic teaching and moving away from position last year, he was se­McDavit, sit on the Academic and Matt Fitzgerald of the Council participate in the prin­English to other different top­lected by the Student Body Council. College of Architecture and cipal functions of the Council ics," he said. 

rr---~---p~age-4~-~~---­
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, October 5, 1995 

'15 

POW~~ 
Mu[ticu[turaf 'E~ecutive Council 
MULTlCULTURAL FRLL FESTIURL 

CULTURE 
ON THE QUAD October 2-6 Fieldhouse Mall 4:30-6:00 p.m. Performances By: Native American 
Club Hawaiian Club Greek Club Filipino Club 
TroopND 
Fireside Chats 
October 2-6 "Women in the Rrts.. Notre Dame Room, Lafortune 
12:15-1:15 p.m. 
Monday: Professor Lyonga Tuesday: Professor Hlice Cheang Wednesday: Sonya Gernes Thursday: Diana Mythyus Friday: Jill Godmillow 

TASTE OF NATIONS 
Friday, October 6 
8:00 p.m. Stepan Center 
Entertainment by Sabor Latino 
SPECIAL EUENTS 
October3 102 DeBartolo 7:00p.m. Eun-Sook Lee 
OctoberS Ball Room 7:00p.m. 
John Ole Tome 


---·-·--·--------------------------------------------------~-··---· .. --.--. -·. ·-·­
Thursday, October 5, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 



Miller: Malaria makes comeback 

By VINCE INDRIOLO and PAUL SWAIN News Writers 
Malaria. a disease which has plagued mankind for cen­turies, remains one of the most deadly and least understood diseases today, according to Dr. Louis Miller, chief of the Laboratory of Malaria nesearch for the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases in Bethesda, Md. 
"Malaria is a disease that will keep coming back," said Miller in a talk that focused on the malaria virus, its varia­tions, and medical remedies. As the human immune system adapts to fight off malaria, the malaria virus adapts to combat the immune system. 
As the movie Outbreak sug­gests, the spread of viral dis­ease can pose a threat to hu­manity. Miller suggests that the threat of viral disease is very real, and already here. 
"Malaria is an explosive problem," commented Miller in describing the tropical disease. It is spread by mosquitos, and is caused by a parasite which goes first to the liver and then 
The Observer/Katie Kroener 
In his speech, Dr. Louis Miller detailed the deadliness of the Malaria virus, as well as the lack of a fully effective cure. 
to the red blood cells, where it the means of many malaria­begins to cause problems. ravaged countries. Contracted 
In the battle against malaria, through the bites of infected the traditional drug of choice, mosquitoes, harbors in Africa, chloroquine, is fast losing Asia, and Central and South ground. Resistant variations of America, the malaria mortality malaria are rapidly spreading, rate has risen to over 50% in and Miller estimates that "in some areas of Africa. two to three years, chloroquine "Why does one species [of will be totally ineffective virus] evolve to be virulent?" against the malaria virus." asked Miller. Many of the Comparable drugs can cost up virulent forms of the malaria to ten times more -beyond virus, he said, come from other 

Associated Press 

Sarah Corson! 
CHICAGO FBI agents searching for the Unabomber are scrutinizing records of a handful of students at three suburban schools in 
Now that you're clean 
it's time to 
the 1970s, The Chicago Tri­bune reported Wednesday. 
~~0 dl0wm [}rJld] d]~[IIO)Jg 
FBI spokesman Bob Long would not confirm or deny the
Your Friends, 
report, noting that agents have interviewed academicians and
C&D 

7asle Of Xal.ions 
FOOD AND ENTERTAINMENT FROM AROUND THE WORLD 
Comefain !lie fun/ dlop fJ_y before r5y!J?"s andJormals / Xc.bo/1 !lie meebend.in a umrue way andbrin!J allyourfriends / 

c'5ponsored/)_y: YJ(uflicufluraf0xeculiue GouncJf 
Featuring: Sabor Latino~ Voices ofFaith~ Main Street Rockerettes~ and a great night offun~ 
dance~ food and music! 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1995 8 P.M.-12 A.M. STEPAN CENTER ADMISSION: $1 
animals. The worst human forms of malaria come from sources which are not as well adapted to the human host. Miller described the ideal par­asite as the one which does not kill its host. "Parasites evolve in ways that promote regener­ation," Miller stated. A prob­lem with malaria is that, like the flu, the virus is always adapting, often faster than the human immune system can; unfortunately, too frequently it proves fatal. 
Among the human race there are some people who remain unaffected by the malaria parasite. 
Miller noted that some young children were exposed and did not get sick. For researchers, this is an important finding, as it could lead to better under­standing of the parasite that causes malaria. By doing field research and gaining a better understanding of malaria, hopefully a more effective way to prevent or treat it may soon be found. 
Miller stated that adequate funding for malarial research is lacking; not enough mom~y is available for all viable research avenues. 
FBI draws one step


Happy 21st 
closer to Unabomber 
are looking in the suburbs, the city, and other cities as well. 
"There is probably no group we haven't talked to ­plumbers, lawyers, machin­ists," he said Wednesday. "Salt Lake City, New Haven, San Francisco are all looking too." 
The FBI blames the Un­abomber for three deaths and 23 injuries in 16 package-bomb attacks since 1978, starting in the Chicago area. 
The FBI believes the Unabomber, so named because his first targets were connected with universities, may have attended high school in the north suburban Niles Township district in the 1970s. 
With the help of veteran teachers, agents developed and whittled a list of potential sus­pects who stood out as disgrun­tled, antisocial or eccentric, the Tribune reported, citing unidentified school district sources. 


Genome Project 
•


premieres 
By HEATHER NATELBORG News Wrirer 
Notre Dame is once again the host for a conference to further educate the scientific commu­nity. The Reilly Center for Sci­ence, Technology, and Values is staging a four-day extrava­ganza, The Human Genome Project. 
Beginning tonight, Oct. 5, scholars from across the U.S. and the world will be dis­cussing genes, D.N.A., and mol­ecular biology in order to come to a greater understanding of science's role in society. 
Speakers include Notre Dame's very own Phillip Sloan, who helped organize the con­ference, Thaddeus P. Dryja from Harvard Medical School, and Hans-Joerg Rheinberger from Salzburg, Germany. Topics to be discussed range from "Reductionism and Eu­genics" to "Relating Genetics to Theology on the Map of Scien­tific Knowledge." 
The group of over 30 geneti­cists, biologists, and theolo­gians will be attending numer­ous lectures and discussions throughout the weekend. Not only will they be discussing the technical aspects of genetic research, but ethical and social issues are expected to be raised. 
The Human Genome Project is currently attempting to establish a primary locator map of human D.N.A. 
This would eventually lead to the identification of the entire human genetic structure. 
With this kind of scientific advance medical research could be spurred to an all-time high. 
Many diseases that are incomprehensible because of their genetic make-up could eventually be cured. 
In keeping with the religious character of Notre Dame, the results of these expected devel­opments will be analyzed from moral and social points of view. These distinguished scholars will have to decide how to face the inevitable dilemmas that will arise from cultural differ­ences, as well as the legal boundaries set by individual nations. 
-""~---~ 
r-· 
~ 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS 
ROTC 
continued from page 1 
like Peacenet are less about the ROTC specifically and more about the military. 
"I think the question that is out there is, 'Do we need a mili­tary?"' Air Force commanding officer Colonel Thomas Runge said. "All you need to do is look at world and events and see that we need some capable force to deter war and to pre­serve and restore peace." 
According to ROTC's leaders, in a world where a military is necessary, Notre Dame is the perfect place to look for the men and women who will lead it. 
"The same type of character­istics that the military wants in its leader-s. are present in ·Notre Dame students," said Captain Russell Pickett of Navy ROTC. 
"They have the rich core of ethical values and morals, a sense of community and a dedi­cation to community service." 
Integrating the sense of ethics inherent in Notre Dame's phi­losophy with military lead­ership is the basis of much of the communities' defense of ROTC. 
The military has had a long tradition on campus, beginning with Father Corby, chaplain to Union forces at Gettysburg. Former president Theodore Hesburgh is credited with say­ing it is the University's role to christianize the military. Many within ROTC today agree with this notion. 
"Right now, it's a terrible thing, but war is a part of the way society functions," Plumb said. "Until there's a time when there's no need for war, we want the people leading our military to have Christian val­ues and ethics." 
The role of the Catholic church in regards to military action has long been the subject of debate. 
"Within the Catholic tradition, the pacifist movement has al­ways had deep roots," said Larry Cunningham, chair of the theology department. "But there has also been a tradition that has tried to understand the role of soldiers and the condi­tions of a just war." 
Facilitating the debate be­tween these two traditions is another role ROTC takes on campus, and it is one they feel is important to academia. 
"We have encouraged dia­
logue between the Peace Insti­tute and ourselves," Pickett said. "It is important to have all perspectives spoken freely on campus. I feel strongly that we have learned from others' perspectives. We are not as militant as tliey would think, and they are not as anti-mili­tary as we thought." 
Cunningham agrees that the debate between the military and organizations like Peacenet is a good, intellectual issue to discuss on campus, but warns that deeper issues are at stake for the students involved in ROTC. 
"Not a day goes by when I don't think that for four years I will be part of an organization that, when called to do so, will go to war," Plumb said. "I take comfort in the fact that those making the decisions take into account the value of human life, and plans will be executed in a way that will uphold those values, that they will act in as just a way as possible." 
"I will listen to my con­science, listen to my supervi­sor," Plumb said. "And pray to my God." 
If you see sports happening, call The Observer at 1-4523. 

CAMPUS MINISTRY••• 
•••CONSIDERATIONS 
Doing the Little Things and Focusing on the Big Picture 
If you're like me, there are times when you drift into your own little world, with your own little problems and accomplishments. It is easy to drift into your own little world when you have assignments to do, tests to study for and papers to write. 
In order to get things done, sometimes it is necessary to be single-minded and very focused. Sometimes it is nec­essary to confine yourself to doing the little things. 
But every once in while, it is important to take a step back and consider the big picture. How does what you are doing (in the confines of your room, the computer cluster or the library) have to do with what is happening in the world and your hopes for the future? 
Being a Christian means recognizing that the world is big­ger than "me". Being Catholic means recognizing that the Church is us and bigger than us. 
Pope John Paul II is in the United States this week. The Pope arrived yesterday and he will be visiting the United States through Sunday, October 8. 
ust as the Pope's visit is another opportunity for him to learn about the needs of the Roman Catholic Church in the United States, his visit is another opportunity for me to be reminded that the world is bigger than "me". His visit is another opportunity for us to be reminded that the Church is us and bigger than us. 
The Pope helps us to see the big picture. The big picture is a world in which there continues to be suffering that is remediable. The big picture is a world in which some people struggle daily for their lives. The big picture includes a Church which, although not perfect, sides with these people and calls people to responsibility and peace. The big picture is a world in which there is hope. 
We all have problems of various kinds and needs of vari­ous kinds. As important as some of these may be, the danger is to become confined to our own problems and our own needs. Even the things which are meant to expand our vision and open our minds can lead us into our own little worlds. 
In our daily lives, there are all kinds of so called "little things" to do. 
Hopefully, as human beings, Christians and Catholics, we can do the so called "little things" and focus on the big picture. May the little things that we do gradually enable us to enter into this world with skills and hope. 

Sat. October 7 Sun. October 8 
Thursday, October 5, 1995 





Frenchman refuses to cede island nation 
ByTOMCOHEN 
Associated Press 

MORONI, Comoros Islands 
The mercenary who over­threw this African island na­tion's government refused to surrender today, hours after hundreds of French comman­dos stormed the country from the air and the sea. 
Earlier, French officials erroneously reported the sur­render of Bob Denard, who led a coup last Thursday. 
The French defense ministry quickly issued a new state­ment saying commandos have Denard surrounded. 
It said the 66-year-old Frenchman has yet to turn himself in, though he has freed Comorian President Said Mohamed Djohar. 
"We're still in the same place, we're continuing to negotiate," Denard said by telephone. "I haven't surren­dered. This is stand-by. We'll see tomorrow." 
The ministry blamed its mis­take on a French news report, which turned out to be wrong. 
About 600 camouflaged French commandos landed at the airport at dawn, carrying rocket-propelled grenades and machine guns. They commandeered a mobile stair­way from the airport and drove it through streets as a portable vantage point for sol­diers. 
Earlier, about 40 comman­dos swarmed ashore on inflat­able speedboats and battled with 30 Comorian soldiers and four French mercenaries, said Capt. Robert Pellegrin, the commander of the assault. 
Reporters saw at least three dead and 11 wounded. French officers reported no casualties among their troops and said they took 29 prisoners. 
By late today, French troops had routed coup supporters and surrounded their silver­haired leader, who was holed up at the barracks where he had been holding Djohar since Thursday. 
Denard allowed French spe­cial forces soldiers to walk into his military camp without firing a shot. 
WEEKEND PREsiDERS 
AT SACRED HEART BASILICA 
5:00p.m.  Rev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C.  
10:00 a.m.  Rev.David Scheidler, C.S.C.  
11:45 a.m.  Rev. Richard V. Warner, C.S.C.  

• • ' I . . = ~ ~ " . ,

.• •·." :· ·.. ~ ! . ; ~f:\.:f{.· ~.,:~ (r!t,:_ .. · , · ,-L'·~' ...J ~!
:1. .. 
~ ~ or ~_..;.;;.._ ~.::...... .~ ~ !... :. ;.. :.. ~ :.. ---~-.;. ~ ..;.
:-__ ..... ::.·-0 • ­
-""''I[~ ......... --.._ ·~ , • I 

Thursday, October 5, 1995 
The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 7 



Clinton suggests training 
By ROBERT BURNS 
Nsociatcd P~~ 
WASIIINGTON 
The Clinton administration may propose that an outside group including Amerieans pro­vide special training to strengthen the Bosnian army after a peace deal is signed, De­fense Secretary William Perry said Wednesday. 
The goal, Perry said, would be to avoid leaving the Bosnian government forces in a weak position once the peace settle­ment is implemented and NATO forces left. Such weakness eould lead to reigniting hostili­ties, he said. 
Perry said the matter would be among topics discussed at a meeting of NATO defense min­isters Thursday and Friday in Williamsburg, Va. The minis­ters also will hear U.S. Gen. George Joulwan, the chief com­mander of NATO forces in Europe, lay out the latest plan for using alliance troops to im­plement a peace plan. 
Perry had said Tuesday that the NATO allies had not yet signed on to his idea of provid­ing special training for the Bosnian army. 
Indeed, NATO Secretary­General Willy Claes said Wednesday that allied troops must remain strictly neutral in enforcing a peace settlement. 
"NATO troops will not be asked to fight a war in the Balkans on behalf of one side against another," Claes said in a speech to the National Press Club. "We will go in only if the Bosnian government is satisfied 
DePauw to lecture on Depression at SMC 
Special to the Observer 
Saint Mary's College pre­sents a lecture today at 12:15 in Stapelton Lounge entitled Women and Depression. The lecture will be given by Mary 
E. DHPauw, Ph.D, the director of Counseling and Career Development. 
The lecture and a depres­sion screening session, which wlll be held at 3:15 in the Student Affairs Conference Room 170 Le Mans, is being done in conjunetion with the Association of University and College Counseling Center Directors, who designated October 5 as National Depression Screening Day. 
DePauw will define depres­sion and will explore the vul­nerable factors for women. She will also discuss available treatments and how to find support. 
At the Screening, partici­pants will complete an anony­mous written test, discussing the results with a staff coun­selor, 

~ 
,W 

with the peace settlement and wants us there, and only if all the parties have signed and pledged to respect the agree­ment." 
Responding to reporters questions at a picture-taking session in his office with French Defense Minister Charles Millon, Perry did not explicitly say he favored supplying arms to the Bosnian government. He said the aim would be to "pro­fessionalize" those forces so they are better able to defend themselves. 
"We do not want an arms race established in Bosnia," Perry said. "That would be the worst thing that could happen." 
Asked his view, Millon strong­ly suggested he would oppose arming the Bosnian Muslims. 
"France looks forward to or­ganizing a multinational force rather than arming the bel­ligerents and possibly facing the horrors that could follow," Millon said. 
To achieve a better balance of power in Bosnia, Perry said, the U.S.-led alliance would have to either get all parties, including the Bosnian Serbs, to reduce their armaments or, al­ternatively, help strengthen the Bosnian army. 
"The best approach would be a build down -having all the belligerents decrease (arma­ments) so there is some balance of force ... in the region," Perry said. "If that is not successful, then it may be necessary to have some efforts put into the professionalization of the Bosnia federation army so that there is not such an imbal­ance." 




Schedule for-October 
domingo, 1 de Octubre de 1995 
11:30 a.m. Stanford-Keenan Chapel Padre David Scheidler, c.s.c. 
domingo, 8 de Octubre de 1995 
11:30 a.m. Stanford-Keenan Chapel Padre Patrick Neary, c.s.c. 
domingo, 29 de Octubre de 1995 
11:30 a.m. Stanford-Keenan Chapel Padre Timothy Scully, c.s.c. 
Todos Estan Invitados 

CNv1PU5 
-
MINISTRY 



Hurricane Opal rips through Panhandle 
By BILL KACZOR 
Associated Press 
PENSACOLA, Fla. 

Hurricane Opal's winds gusted up to 185 mph this morning as the biggest storm in three years headed toward the Florida Panhandle, bom­barding the region with its third hurricane this summer. 
"I think this one is going to clean our clock," said Tom Beliech. He was taking his family to ride out the storm in New Orleans -Hurricane Erin, which hit two months ago today, "gave us a deep respect for knowing when to leave," he said. 
The National Hurricane Center in Miami predicted the storm would hit this afternoon and posted hurricane warn­ings from the mouth of the Mississippi River to Anclote Key on Florida's west coast, north of Tampa. 
"All preparations to protect life and property should be rushed to completion," the center said, warning that the storm is "capable of causing extreme damage." 
Residents of Georgia and Al­abama also fled to shelters or fortified their homes and be­longings. 
Alabama Gov. Fob James closed all of the state's public schools, issued a mandatory . evacuation order and put all 67 counties under a state of emergency. 
As tens of thousands began evacuating the Gulf Coast, major highways became crowded, almost bumper to bumper in places, and long lines formed at gas station pumps. 
The storm, its sustained winds just 120 mph before dawn today, was upgraded to a Category 4 hurricane within hours. 

appy 21st Birthday 
T.R. Kane! 
We Love you and we ·are proud of you! 
Love, 

Your Family and Friends 

APNim. J. Castello. Trade Tso 

By mid-morning, its sus­tained winds had reached 150 mph, approaching Category 5 status, which is marked by 155 mph winds. Some in the Panhandle boarded up their homes with plywood and planned to ride it out. 
''I'm just going to shut down all my appliances, shut all my windows and pray," said Jackie Williams of Panama City. "Yeah, I'm scared. It's very still and the skies are getting dark." 
Forecasters said Pensacola was the most likely target for Opal's eye, but that the worst damage likely would be east of the center. 
"Of course, we've had two hurricanes in the Panhandle already this year, but this one is certainly the biggest of them all," said Harold Joyner of the state Emergency Operations Center. 
EARN CASH by DONATING 
You could earn: 
$30°0atter your first plasma donation! 
$15°0  if you donate alone (first visit)  
+$ 5°0  if you show college I.D. (first visit)  
+$1 Qilll  per person ~you recruit someone and they donate  

$30°0 TOTAL! Help Us Save Lives Must be 18 years old; proof of current address with photo I. D. COME TO: HOURS: AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL M-F: 9-6 515 LINCOLNWAY WEST SAT: 8-5 SOUTH BEND, IN 46601-1117 234-6010 
pageS The Observer • NEWS Thursday, October 5, 1995 
Texas executes 1OOth inmate since 1982 


Malloy 
continued from page 1 
ourselves. Unfortunately, while ambition and aspiration are up, there's a bill in Congress to re­duce government offered aid by ten billion dollars," Malloy noted. The president also feels that increasing the University's ability to offer aid will have a direct impact upon efforts to create a more diverse student body. 
"We're working hard at that diversity; but money is the thing that stands in our way. We're thoroughly reviewing our expenditures to find money for financial aid. We're not content with the current situation yet," he offered. 
Incre8.ies in the size of Notre Dame concerned some audi­ence members, but Malloy was firm in underlining the Univer­sity's commitment to retain its current character through both its admissions and its construc­tion projects. 
"We've capped undergradu­ate enrollment and we're com­mitted to maintaining ar­chitectural integrity in our new buildings." 
Malloy used the planned sta­dium project as an example, promising that the addition would be simple and tasteful. He also admitted that despite the undergraduate enrollment cap, space was available for a few more graduate and foreign study students. He added, ''I'd like to double the number of students we have participating in foreign study programs." 
As expected, money was a concern of the student audi­ence. Malloy reiterated the University's desire to keep tu­ition increases to a minimum, but explained that "academic inflation exceeds national infla­tion, and fifty percent of our costs are our 3,000 employees." 

Students had mixed reactions to Malloy's words. Sophomore Peter O'Donnell understood the ambiguousness of the audience. 
"Financial aid is a big deal to a lot of people here. It's good that the University is trying to increase it, and that this prior­ity is receiving a lot of atten­tion, but I didn't really hear any concrete solutions for fixing the current situation." 
"If we have so much money, I'm still not sure why tuition has to keep going up," re­marked freshman Craig Hagkull. 
But freshman Ryan Caufield countered, "I agreed with al­most everything that Monk said. It sounds like Notre Dame is making progress, especially in the national reputation of our faculty." 
"After hearing him, I'm pretty reassured about the Uni­versity's direction. I don't see anything heading downhill," concluded junior Kyle Green. 

Peace 
continued from page 1 
have reached over 500 after its summer of 1994 letter, as well as having received letters of encouragement from Pax Christi USA and several hun­dred graduates from around the country. 
In a November '94 letter, '62 Notre D.a.me. graduate. Em­manuel Charles McCarthy asks for an examination of one's consciousness. 
"We are back here on this twenty-fifth anniversary of the nonviolent Dow-CIA Protest to ask the Notre Dame community to restart with vigor the con­versation on the relationship between Christian faith and vio-
HCA 
continued from page 1 
vice activities. These include working with HIV/AIDS pa­tients, teaching at both pre­school and grade school levels, working with the elderly and the homeless, and helping to organize communities. Partici­pants receive allowances for living expenses, health insur­ance, and monthly personal stipends from Holy Cross Associates. 
Applications and information concerning both the Domestic and Chile Programs are now available in the Holy Cross As­sociates office at Moreau Semi­nary or in the Center for Social Concerns. 
Please Recycle The Observer 

Oct 6 & Oct.7-7 & 9:30pm $2.00 admission 
By MICHAEL GRACZYK 
Associated Press 

HUNTSVILLE, Texas 
Killer Harold Joe Lane smiled before his execution Wednes­day, when he became the 100th Texas inmate put to death since the state resumed capital punishment in 1982. 
"It's good lo see my broth­ers," he said, looking at the two men standing a few feet away. "I love you, I wish you happiness and everlasting peace. 
"I have everlasting peace with my God and I'm ready," he said before gasping several times and slipping into uncon­sciousness. 
Lane, 50, was pronounced 
dead at 6:28 p.m., nine minutes after the lethal drugs began flowing into his arm. 
He was executed for shooting Tammy Davis, a 17-year-old cashier, during a supermarket robbery in Dallas in 1982. He had a long criminal history, in­cluding imprisonment in Col­orado for robbery and assault and in Louisiana for manslaughter. 
"It finally closes the book on the trauma that has taken place," said Brenda Ruiz, the mother of his victim. "I have come here to see justice finally is served in this case." 
She was not allowed to wit­ness the execution despite a re­cent policy change that allows survivors to do so. 

"strong military presence on our campus." 
Peacenet's latest activities have included a 16-day, 225 mile pilgrimage for conciliation and end of nuclear weapons, organized by Pax Christi, which passed through most of New York. 
"Walks for Peace" are sched­uled from October 9th to the 28th from Cleveland, Ohio to Notre Dame, a total of 237 miles. The purpose of this walk includes topics such as inner healing, unity, nuclear disar­mament, reconciliation, the 

ALUMNI & DECEMBER GRADUATES 
COUNSELOWTEACHERS THERE ARE REWARDS... 
Local Interviews To Be Conducted In Indianapolis On October 20 &21! 
lence at Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame's history of par­ticipation in the making of the first atomic bomb, of its acqui­escence to the presence of Dow­CIA recruiters during that "overwhelming atrocity," of its honoring Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan and Pres. George Bush are all of one conscious­ness -and it is not a Christian consciousness. 
We ask the Notre Dame com­munity, is it something that should be fostered at a Catholic University whose ultimate rea­son for existence is to lead peo­ple to the Nonviolent Jesus through the Nonviolent Mary?" 
Several of Peacenet's publica­tions include quotes on nonvio­lence from former University President Fr. Theodore Res­burgh, as well as current Uni­versity President Fr. Edward Malloy. 

Peacenet frequently uses a quote by Malloy in Notre Dame Magazine in which he says, "I believe the single most impor­tant apostolate in the American Church is Notre Dame. It has the ability to profoundly influ­ence contemporary American Catholic life. If that were squandered, it would be a terri­ble loss." 
In its letters, Peacenet asks for the opportunity to address their concerns in person before the appropriate committee of Colloquy for the Year 2000. They state the theme of Collo­quy lies in the "Catholic identity and character of the Univer­sity," yet Peacenet members fail to find a definition as to the 

~llliantc~ 
• GENDER STUDIES ENTHUSIAST 

For 20 hour per week work-study appointment in the Gender Studies Program 
Qualifications: 

•HTML 
Literate for Homepage upkeep 

•Basic 
library research skills for projects related to program development 

•Organizational 
skills for office tasks 



Send letter ofapplication to 104 O'Shag, attention Marie Kramb, by October 13; interviews will be scheduled after break. 

NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE PRESENTS 
TRANSLATED AND DIRECTED BY REV. DAVID GARRICK, C.S.C. 

WEDNESDAY, OCT. 4 ... 8:00P.M. FRIDAY, OCT. 6 ....•...... 8:00P.M. THURSDAY, OCT. 5 ...... 8:00P.M. SATURDAY, OCT. 7 ...... 8:00P.M. SUNDAY, OCT. 8 ......... 2:30P.M. 
PLAYING AT WASHINGTON HALL • RESERVED SEATS $8 STUDENT AND SENIOR CITIZEN DISCOUNTS TICKETS ARE AVAILAaLE AT THE DOOR OR IN ADVANCE AT THE LAfORTUNE . STUDENT CENTER TICKET OFFICE. MASTERCARD AND VISA ORDERS CALL 631-8128 



Eckerd Family Youth Alternatives. Inc.. a leader in quality programs for youth-at-risk. offers opportuni­ties to those interested in helping
d utd 
youth · In a year-roun ° oor residential setting. Currently we operate 15 camps in 7 states. 
(including 5 in FL. lin GA. 5 in NC. 1in NH. 1in Rl. 1in TN. and 1 in vr. Also. an additional facility is 
1 d f NC · 1996 

P anne or In · Our Counselor{Teachers provide leadership to a group of 1Q-12 youths-at-risk in this live-in position 
(5 days/week, 24 hours/ day). Through construe­tion of tents in a group campsite. democratic planning of group activities such as canoe. backpack. and raft trips. as well as problem solving and experientialleaming. 
Counselor{Teachers facilitate change and growth in the children. 
ages 1Q-17. 
promotion of a University Chair in Nonviolence, and most im­portantly, the phase-out of ROTC. 
Carver concedes, "though I may be the only walker, many will read the message on our banner, 'Cleveland-Notre Dame: NO Peacenet."' 
Through its highs and lows, NO Peacenet remains focused on its goal to proclaim the gospel of nonviolence at Notre Dame, since according to its publications, "only peaceful people can make peace." 
Qualified candidates will possess a Bachelor's Degree (no specific major) and prior child care experience. We are seeking
creative. responsible. and 
motivated outdoor enthusiasts. Experience in First Aid. CPR. ALS. and WSI is desirable. 
We offer a starting salary of 
$16.500 and comprehensive benefits, including room and 
board, trip bonuses. health/life insurance (dental is available). short/long-term disability. paid 
time off. pension plan and 
career growth. 

t:c•:t:Wil•l 
• 

• 
J. 

IW\W311M'I 
······••;•
fimNil~(;mu•J ••~•·­
To be considered for a possible interview, please call Sean Kenny 
at (800) 473-7916 or (919) 726-0457. Or send resume to: ECKERD FAMILY YOUTH ALTERNATIVES, INC., Attn: Sean Kenny, Staff 
Recruiter, c/o Camp
E-Ma-Henwu, 388 Nl'ne Mile Road, Newport, NC 28570. An EOE. M/F. 
Drug-free workplace. 

• • .AND THEN THERE ARE REWARDS. BREAK THE CYCLE: CHANGE YOUNG LIVES. 






VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, October 5, 1995 page9 
THE OBSERVER 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notte Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 

John Lucas Managing Editor Business Manager Elizabeth Reg•n Joseph Riley 
News Editor ...................•............ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Pott<r Viewpoint Editor ...........•...... Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ...................... Jen Mackowiak Spono Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Scan Gallavan Saint Mary's E.titor .................... Patti Carson Observer Marketing Director .....•.... Pere Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of rhe Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. C'.ommcntaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the amhors, and not ncccssarlly those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900 I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor /Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• KEVORKIAN KORNER 
Verdict for O.J.'s jury: Guilty of crime against society 
The purpose of today's column, as I originally planned it, was a noble one: it was here that I meant to announce the debut of my own WVFI radio show on Wednesday mornings from 9-11. Oh, how I was going to go on about how many great things I was going to play: obscure, ultra-hip songs from forgotten eras, psychedelic spoken word record­ings, abrasive chatter, open phone lines -what a happening it will be, etc. I still think you 
would be well 

================ neous burst of joy.
advised to stay in your dorm rooms, prefer­ably in footsie 
Josh pajamas, and tune in to my program. 
Ozersky

But I can't devote a whole column, or even 
------~============-------­
any large part of one, to such a relatively petty matter. hate columnists who "feel impelled" to weigh in with their banal, self-important opinions on every topical issue, but this 
O..J. thing is just too damn much. And nobody is writing about it! 
Muttering about it, perhaps; cursing about it in private, maybe; but as far as I ean tell, nobody wants to touch it in public. A debacle like this is particularly catastrophic at a racially polarized place like Notre Dame. 
I don't want to get into the whole question of O . .J.'s guilt. Let's leave it at this. Every white person in America, including myself, believes from the bot­tom of their heart that he is guilty, a millionaire using his blackness as nerve gas to escape justice with the help of sleazy, high-priced lawyers. And blacks, overwhelmingly, seem to believe that 
O.J. is a kind of high-profile Emmet Till, a black who has made good, and thus incurred the wrath of white conspirators on the LAPD. Needless to say, there is no middle ground between these posi­tions. Since the circumstances are so incriminating, a vast evil conspiracy is the only way to explain them away. 
Now, this sounds ridiculous, alright. It even sounds ridiculous to me, with my facile and immoderate way of looking at things. But it's true. I sat in the University Club, of all places, yesterday and literally watched a man get away with murder. The only blacks in the room, both employees, significantly enough, rejoiced audibly -it just came 
out of them, a sponta­
(Embarrassed, they slipped back into the kitchen.) The mono­grammed alumni and myself all tightened in dismay at the verdict, and refused to let on that we had heard that sob of relief, even 
though they were
right there next to us -and this scene repeated itself every­where. 
This much is cliche by now -even Time and Newsweek predicted it, although of course they had to, for the sake of propriety, run an alternate sce­nario, in which O.J. was convicted. (The number of people who feigned wonder at what the verdict would be continues to amaze me. I would guess that every­one but the most hardened ideologues knew he would walk from day one; to pretend otherwise, after Fuhrman, Johnnie Cochran's polemic, and the jury's three-hour deliberation, is just posturing, it seems to me.) 
The worst thing all this racial distrust and mutual contempt has generated, though, is the atmosphere of pious dou­ble-talk and segregated, just-between-us confidences. In the last nine months, the gestation period of this monstrous birth, I think I can count on the fingers of one maimed hand the times I dis­cussed the O.J. trial with a black person. Probably that's because in this strange place, most of the black people I meet are anxious young people already weighted down by their conspicuousness on this lily-white campus, or profession­als with a highly-developed sense of split loyalties. If I were still at Atlantic City High School, I have no doubt that I would have a better sense of black anger and siege mentality. 
As it is, I have to get by on analogy. It has long been proven beyond a doubt that Julius and Ethel Rosenberg were commie spies in the fifties. But many Jews, especially older ones, still refuse to believe it. They were executed because they were Jewish. Eisenhower was the Tsar, the same way O.J. has become Rodney King. There you have the siege mentality in action. 
But it still is no excuse. That jury committed a crime against our society, and I do mean "our," black and white alike. O.J.'s acquittal was no vindication of American blacks; it was, at best, a vindication of the durability of group­think and selective rationality -some­thing our creationalist friends could tell us a thing or too about, incidentally. The feeling among white people was even worse, a two-floor edifice of race anger. One, a black jury refused to con­vict a black man for purely political rea­sons; and two, "we" had to take it and like it, because "our" security seemed to be hostage to the verdict. "At least we averted a riot," ran the line of thinking. "I want to see O.J. sent up the river, but not if it means my Audi getting keyed." 
I expect to be accused of exaggeration and insensitivity for saying this, and per­haps rightly. But you've got to be sick of the hypocrisy of "acceptable discourse," so far from the anger, the malice, and the misunderstanding cleaving white from black everywhere. For the sake of brotherhood, let's try to be honest, just once, when it really counts. Maybe we all just can't get along: but the only way to find out is to try. On one level. every social nicety, every "how are you," "what's up?" or "see you around" does more than a hundred volumes of multi-
GARRY TRUDEAU
• 000NESBURY 
MRt, D1 A f=/JG/77Vf3 HURRY, PAP.' THEY OXAY, t:WMMT,
FR/JM Jl./'3T/Cf3-I OON'T . ca.JW~ eu;ep-11/HAT THC. HEU­HAV/3 TIM!! FOR. THIS/ 
/NG 7lJ Cl!ATH.' U/5R/3 YaJ/lOING ONMY51/?e. a= 
7HC. ... Aa<1rr~ 
YOU.' 
cultural propaganda. But it's not enough, especially at tense moments like the present one. 
I don't know what black people really think about this O.J. thing, or about black crime and white injustice, or about institutional racism, or the thou­sand daily snubs and insults they receive even after having ascended into the mid­dle class. For white people, for the most part, I think it comes down to dis­missive mantras like "Why can't they all be like Sinbad?" or "I get along with this guy at work -he would never key my Audi." 
The O.J. trial is only the worst, latest reason for this kind of thing. But you see it everywhere. At one time, for example, black musicians like George Clinton, Issac Hayes, Africa Bombaata, or Roberta Flack produced albums that were aimed at blacks, but which white people in the know bought and enjoyed. But since the rise of MTV and its vast white audience, it seems that a lot of the biggest black acts have tried to either play up their threatening, hostile aspects (NWA, Ice T, Snoop Doggy Dogg) or their bland, feel-good innocuousness (Whitney Houston, Boyz II Men, De La Soul). While there are a few acts that succeed without choosing either of these depressing alternatives, like Seal, Digital Underground, or Prince, they seem to fall into neglect fairly quickly. 
I don't know. The image is sealed in my mind of a white Bronco, viewed from the air, cruising down an abandoned freeway surrounded by phalanxes of squad cars. Is it a metaphor for the black man, encompassed on every side by policemen, going nowhere fast on a road with no exits? Or is it a metaphor for white culture, a prisoner of its own protection, traveling down the once­great American freeway in paranoid, sti­fling isolation? 
Really, does it matter? 
Josh Ozersky is a graduate student in history. He can be reached over e-mail at: joshua. a. ozersky.l @nd. edu 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"There is no such thing as justice-in or out of court." 
-Clarence Darrow 

... '. ~ ·-· . ........ 

,__. _____ ____________,_____ 



ACCENT
page 10 October 5, 1995 
• ALBUM REVIEW 

FOLk MUSIC· WITH A NEW TWIST 
Lisa Loeb and Nine Stories 
Tails 

Geffen Records 
**** 
out of five 
By CHRISTIAN STEIN Music Critic 

S 
orne times the unexpected can be surprisingly appealing, especially in today' s music world. Lisa Loeb, with her first full length release Tails, has made an incredible debut. 
Although she is well known for her hit song "Stay" which appeared on the Reality Bites Soundtrack and gave her instant success without ever releasing her own album, Loeb, along with her band Nine Stories, proves on Tails that her success is well deserved. 
The unexpected arrives early on Tails with the opening track "It's Over" which relates to both death and survival, but is written with an undertone of sar­casm. "Like a Gothic Staple, a last good-bye I one way to float is if you die." 
Accompanying the lyrics at the beginning of the song are light acoustic guitars which turn sinister when 
"Clementine." 
modern "folk;" Mv• ra:votfite tr£ 
file" with 
hum·a·strum played on tbe ,.Air1illlll'II'A<'l '1 
ina dung heap.··.·.•..•.,..•.....•.••,. 
Tune in to WVPI 640 
Thursday at 5:00!!!, 

David McMahon, Music Directl[)r 
Loeb slides up the guitar neck as the drums, bass and electric guitars also join. Loeb does a good job on this. opening track of shocking the listener with ex­pectations of a more mellow album. 
In the middle of the album is Loeb's most diversified and enticing song "Hurricane." Through the incorpora­tion of strings, Loeb achieves a feeling of desolation which accompanies the story-like lyrics about a boy looking for healing from a witch, but he realizes that he must find healing within himself. "You're a head­less woman, you're a hurricane. I You will heal my heart up? I No, I will heal my own heart up, you are hurting." 
The lyrics are not the only appealing contribution to this song; it is the music which somehow creates the feeling of a storm completing the balance between lyric and music. Referring to her song "Alone," Loeb says that, "Fugazi has these great guitar stops and I wanted to do something like that on this song." 
Whether or not she mimics Fugazi, "Alone" is a song full of power, calm, and anger. The variations between acoustic and electric found throughout the song can be related to the lyrics when Loeb sings, "I want to be by myself, sometimes I do I I don't want to be left behind, but sometimes I'm left by you." 
Tails is a fantastic album that closes with her hit "Stay" from two years ago. Strangely enough, "Stay" is a far cry from any of the other songs in that it is rela­tively mellow. However, there is no doubt that it is a fitting close to Tails and shows that Lisa Loeb, having rode the wave of success, is capable of producing a fantastic debut album without sticking to the style of music that got her noticed. 

Jane Kelly Williams 
Tapping the Wheel 
Parachute Records 
***1 
out of five 
W:
at Lisa Loeb does with Tails, Jane Kelly Williams does with her debut, Tapping the Wheel. Incorporating the sounds of many dif­ferent folk artists of past as well as present fams,. Williams' twelve song CD is worthy of recognition. 
The album opens with pleasant acoustic chord pro­gressions blended with Williams' serene vocals on "Horizon." Williams seems to be setting the tone for her affirming album as well as her own aspirations in music when she sings, "Everybody needs a horizon I everybody needs a skyline for their soul I take a snap­shot I memorize what you've got I everybody needs a horizon." For Williams, this horizon is Tapping the Wheel. 

"Breaking Into The Past" echoes Williams' desires with similar light chords and happily sung vocals. The subject matter of the this song is quite similar in its affirming tones as depicted by the chorus, "Don't bring an ounce of your love to me now I It weighs bitterly heavy, I've found I One who wants to be here with me I Don't resurrect it now I I've changed my name with love and a vow." 
The album varies throughout its course and differ­ent types of folk arrive and leave. ''I'm Just Feelin' It Now" is reminiscent of Sarah McLachlan's retro funk folk, complete with a cool bassline and interesting in­strumentals. Tones of the Indigo Girls' darker songs like "Kid Fears" are found on "Emotional Memory" with a heavy overtone of minor chords. 
Williams is able to change tone quite unexpectedly adding to the fullness of this debut that closes with a few more solemn John Denveresque finger picked melodies. 
As a relatively unknown artist locally, Williams is sure to gain strong support and great success with Tapping the Wheel as its popularity increases. 


Sonic Laundry 
O
ntheir eleventh.------------------------, cy tale of "Little 
a l b u m , Trouble Girl" (fea-
W a s h i n g turing Kim Deal of Machine, Sonic the Breeders), or the Youth set their gui-beatnik poetry of tars on spin cycle, "Skip Tracer." creating a mellow, It's also worth not-psychedelic pastiche ing that Lee Ranaldo of art rock, punk, makes his much wel­and blues. More corned return to focused and hushed singing on two than in their last tracks, for his voice effort, the aging is much more acces­quartet still manage sible than the to keep their music wounded-girl mum-fresh and explore blings of Kim new avenues of dis-Gordon. tortion and con-The album's shin-trolled cacophony. ing moments surface 
In fact, Washing when the band mixes Machine can almost their ingredients just be considered an right. For example, ambient album, for on "Unwind" the the compiled noises pretty tones and on each song blend pickings culminate together into surpris-Sonic Youth into a swirling riot ingly relaxing waves by the song's end, chaos. Washing Machine and on "Junkie's 
However, upon Geffen Records Promise" Sonic 
closer inspection the Youth does it's own 
layers of a song can ***~ twisted form of be de constructed, funky jamming. and each instrument OUt Of five The snake-charm­
can be picked out by ear, revealing individual moments of melody and harmony. Yet, this form of drifting, easy-listening indie-rock tends to weaken some songs, which are in need of some editing. 
Take the nineteen-plus minute "The Diamond Sea," for example, after ten minutes, you ask yourself, is this still the same song? Lyrically, the band turns to more of a spoken-word or mini-drama direction, such as the teen pregnan­
ing guitar on "No 
Queen Blues" hooks in the listener with delightful hum-ability before pummeling the ear with hardcore chorus riffs. After all these years Sonic Youth has nothing left to prove ... but they still manage to prove some­thing. 
-by Brent DiCrescenzo 

ACCENT
October 5, 1995 page 11 
Van Morrison 
G
reen eggs and cohorts are a spam, what , , PA·,,, l.ll·:<: competentjob,
,, ,_1011111 s 11 .1111 ., 
has happened but the songs to The Man? Days just like This, Van aren't up to Morrison's 25th scratch. When album, gives the dis-they are, pass­astrous "Inarticulate ably good Speech of the Heart" daughter Shana a run for its money M o r r i s o n as the troubadour's wreaks havoc worst outing yet. with her back-
You know that a ing vocals. song-writer is in Exactly how trouble when she/he the press agent starts writings songs for Polydor about writing songs. managed to "Songwriter" is such convince her-a song: ''I'm a song-sell/himself that writer I can put it in Van recaptures words/ I'm a song-the former writer and it's not glory of such for the birds." gems as 
One of the Man's "Gloria," "Have great talents is I Told You infusing cliches with Lately?" or a sense of the sub-"Brown Eyes lime: here they just ~==========~D;=a=y==s=L:;:::::;:ik;=e:::::::::;~;;;;h;::::;is============~ Girl," has me sound like cliches. s t u m p e d . And it's not just Exile Productions Perhaps she/he 
"Songwriter" that followed the contains references itit sort of advice to Van's art: outoffive M a I co I m 
"Russian Roulette" Muggeridge includes the com-gave to book plaint that "nothing seems to rhyme," and in "No critics: "The one thing you should never do in Religion" Morrison claims that when he had reviewing a book is read it." 'cleaned up his diction he had nothing left to "Ancient Highway" comes close to capturing say.' Maybe he should have stuck to instru-that transcendental sense of wonder that we mentals or flower arranging. have learnt to expect from the Godfather of Irish 
One could forgive Morrison for a lyrically weak soul, but one decent song does not make an album if the quality of the music redeemed it, but album. that does not happen. Sure his usual musical -by Tim Bayne 
Zen Cowboys 
I
n the ultra-fab For example, and super-after a brilliant bright world of minute-long psy­trip-hop three chedelic intro to artists currently the song "Mad sit atop the World," a beat gtJnre's ·wobbly drops and falls throne. each with Oat as soon as the its own special key meter is deduced. to open unique T h o u g h and amazing Bunting's bass is images. the only section 
Portishead's ~· worth listening spooky moments " "'' ., to, a repetitive from espionage .f.j piano lick pro-flicks, Tricky's vides no relief. surreal visions of "24 hours of tattered street .! CNN/But Wheel of corners and Fortune's on d e b au c he r o us again/Eyes on the schizophrenia, prize Vanna's got and Massive the plan/The Attack's smooth attention span of and serene nature a garbage can," walks are the moans lead chief contributions singer Solomon. to this new and "Smile" actual-developing format :===========E:;;;;;Ie=c::::;:tr:::;I.;::C=M;:;;I.;::S:::;:t=..e=s=s==========~ ly speeds things 
at the moment. •' up a bit and Most other Moonshine Music sounds like Beck 
artists who at-if he had a British tempt to create itit'Yt accent and was the fragile music out of five hopelessly opti­
miss the mark mistic. Slide gui­(with the ex-tar licks swoon ception of Neneh Cherry who seems to play with over a hip-hop backbeat, while very little care is trip-hop as if it is a hobby) simply because they given to the rhyme or reason of the lyrics. cannot blend all the complicated sounds together The strongest track on the disc, however, real-consistently. ly does show that these cowboys are somewhat 
Enter London's Zen Cowboys. Although they trained for their trade. "976-Godd," another seem to have stumbled upon trip-hop accidental-song about the overzealousness of religious pro­ly, they have stumbled upon it. Flashes of their paganda, features excellent grit and excitement own mix of the slow grind of trip-hop have through Solomon's vocals as well as some less resulted in vague, hallucinatory, dream-like vi-audible but still gorgeous background vocals. gnettes. the kind one might get after staring at The upbeat rhythm, Jacques Aurielle's the sun for a prolonged length of time. screeching distorted guitar and of course, 
However, usually their over usage of vocal dis-Bunting's bass grooves complement each other 
tortion, their bland and predictable beats, and with the care of a true preacher. 
their overall lack of figuring out exactly where Zen Cowboys do show some promise, yet their 
they want to take their music place them among chemistry has not brought them true wisdom nor 
the also-ran's. has it shown them the correct path. Hopefully, 
The one area where Zen Cowboys always after a year or two of strict meditation, Buddha 
sound fresh is through Leif Bunting's bass will show them the way to a more musical brand 
grooves. Albeit simple, his grooves wrap around of trip-hop. 
the rhythms tightly and tenderly, caressing and 
accenting what is usually a weak arrangement. -by Rob Adams 



.i. 

WIJIWDTop 

I I
2. Means to an End Compilation 

j 
j
3. Lenny Kravitz-Circus 

j j
4. 
Dead Eye Dick-Whirl 

5. 
Toad the Wet sprocket-"good intentions" 

6. 
Letters to Cleo-wholesale meats and fish 



I I I j 
l j 
7. Dragmules-2a 
8. Chris Isaak-Forever Blue 

·-... j
9. 
Green Apple Quickstep-l,loaded 

10. 
Morrissey-Southpaw Grammar 

11. 
"Empire Records" Soundtrack 


•
12. Garbage-Garbage . 
13. 
Spirit of '73 Compi~on'~;;,; 

14. 
Elextrafixion-:Burn~cf 


15. Massive Attack-prQtection 
·;. 
16. Ape Hangers-Uitr~ounds 
17. Gr -M _wild life 
.:,; '. ~-~-· >· -~-.. ·_<: 
18. ry:Tall Blonde Helicopter ·.19. .. -qung (iJ()ry" .:y. ··», 
. . . -·.· . "'·· .ar ~. ~!~~ ~~4,-ry C.:--ain-1 ha~ rt)Ck·Q:;fOU ,,~ 
.. ·-.--. . ~ i .. ·, ,: ''/,-:...;, 
"i~-~\?~ 
g/itFUght plays tfl# .. in foih!ge radio every nightfrorii'm1dnight;_ ' 
·\: 
_,,<· . 
.-~~­

2. AC/DC-Ballbreaker 
" 
3. 
Prince-Gold-Experience 

4. 
David Bowie-Outside 

5. 
Silverchair-Frogstomp 

6. 
Alanis Morissette-Jagged Little Pill 

7. 
Friends Soundtrack 

8. 
Red Hot Chili Peppers-' One Hot Minute,U 

9. 
Freddy Jones Band-NorthtAvenue Waketf 


c~ . . 
10. Dave Matthews Band-Under the Table and 
Dreaming  *''~  
11. Natalie Merchant-T~erlily  
12. Bush-Sixteen Stone4  
13. Collective Soul-Collective Soul  
14. Sonic Youth-Was~'g Machine  
15. Coolio-Gangsta's .Paradise 16. F~~r  -~-~--<~.>-­'1•i;  
I Woke  


z sw < a 
r 
I 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, October 5, 1995 

1·­1 
• COU.EGE fOOTBALl. 


Miami's Clement named starter against FSU 
By STEVEN WINE 
Assoicated Press 
CORAL GABtES, Fla. 

Armed with advice from NFL stars and a Reisman Trophy winner, Miami Hurricanes quarterback Ryan Clement makes the first start of his ca­reer Saturday night against top-ranked Florida State. 
In recent days, the 19cyear­old sophomore went to dinner with Gino Torretta and received phone calls from Bernie Kosar, Steve Walsh and Craig Erickson. 
Each shares in the tradition of quality quarterbacks at Miami. Each offered sage sug­gestions about playing at Tallahassee. 
"Gino told me he went up there and threw four intercep­tions in the first half," Clement said. "He said, 'Don't do that."' 
Clement, who inherited the starting job when Ryan Collins separated his shoulder in a 13­7 loss at Virginia Tech, will try buck a trend against the Semi­noles. 
In each of the past seven years, the losing quarterback in the Miami-Florida State game was starting in the series for the first time. 
Torretta went 2-1 against the Seminoles, losing only his first start to them at Tallahassee in 1989. 
"It's one of the biggest games every year that everybody is going to watch," the winner of the 1992 Reisman said. "I guess you could say it's unnerv­ing." 
Another Reisman winner, 

Florida State's Charlie Ward, lost the first time he started against Miami. So did current Seminoles quarterback Danny Kanell in 1994. 
"Nothing could have pre­pared me for the type of ath­letes that we were faced with," Kanell said. 
"You really don't realize it until you're in the middle of it. You don't see the speed you see between these two teams, no matter who you play." 
Clement has been warned. 
The Denver native completed 13 of 25 passes for 182 yards in relief against Virginia Tech and took about 50 snaps as a re­serve last season. But he has yet to throw for a touchdown at Miami and is less experienced going into a Florida State game than any of his esteemed pre­decessors. 
Nonetheless, with an extra week to prepare because of a bye, Clement's confidence grows as the game draws near. 
"It was worse last week," Clement said. ''I'm sleeping a heck of a lot better this week, having seen them on film so much, realizing they're guys like we're guys. They're 19, 20 and 21 years old, like we are. They're not supermen. So I've really become less nervous about this whole thing." 
At 6-foot-2 and 200 pounds, Clement looks physically ma­ture. And coach Butch Davis said the teen-ager has been anything but overwhelmed in preparing for the biggest game of his life. 
"He has a tremendous amount of confidence," Davis said. 
"He most closely resembles Craig Erickson -both are fiery, very competitive and demonstrative. He's a scrapper who puts a lot on himself, and he needs to realize he can rely on his supporting cast." 
In pursuit of Clement, the Hurricanes won a recruiting battle against Florida and oth­ers. 
They never expected him to start so soon, but the only other healthy quarterback is Scott Covington, a second-year fresh­man. 
What if both get hurt? 
"We will probably line up in a single wing, snap the ball di­rectly to one of the cheerlead­ers, punt, play defense and try to score on the special teams," Davis said. 
The Observer acceprs classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Classifieds 
HELP WANTED addressing  I NEED TIXS TO ALL HOME  Need one GA for Boston College.  Dante, Crack, Shimmy, & Flag Boy  
NOTICES  envelopes. Work at your residence in your spare time. $250+/week  GAMES.272-6306  Willing to pay $$$$$$. Call Julie at 284-5170.  HELP! HELP! HELP! HELP! I NEED USC AND BC TIX  Thanks for a great weekend!! love Hitch & Mr. Bear  
possible I (31 0)804-5587 24 hrs.  Need 4 USC GAs & 2 BC GAs.  as many as possible,  
HAIHAI  Please call Cheryl x4883  Need ARMY tixl! Karen x3723  students or GAs  CANCELED  
CUSHING AUD.  Part-time writer/editor with 2 kids  please call NORM @ 232-2955  
OCT5, SPM  (ages: 3,8) needs creative, ener­ Wanted: 4 tickets together-any  USC$$USC$$USC$$USC  Thanks for your Support!  PARADINEPARADINEPARADINE  
FREE  getic, child-care person who's good  home game  Need EIGHT (8) tickets to game!  Here is the classified you requested  
WRITING DEPT.  with kids. Access to car needed. 5­ Wanted: 2 tickets NO-USC  GA's or Student-I don't care.  so now you can die happy.  
SKETCH COMEDY  8 hrs/week, late afternoons.  Call 1-800-922-BEAR day  Matt x-3744  Need Tickets For Army.  Paradise with Paradine, you know  
41NFO  $5.50/hr. 273-1702 after 5  1-502-354-8826 collect in evening  Call Jay at 4-1787.  how it is.  
n1marino@ d!uWm.cc.nd.edu  NEED USC AND BC TIX  PARADINEPARADINEPARADINE  
Collector looking for 1995 magnetic  Need 1-2 tix to SC game.  STUDANDGA  I have the USC tickets you need.  
The NO Entrepreneur Club is look­ football schedule. Will pay over  Melx1286  CALL MEG X4544  call Gretchen@ 284-5166 with your  "Do you ever get that stinging sen­ 
ing for someone to run an intern­ cost. Please call X1103  offer.  sation ... ?"  
ship program, and someone to help  NEED B.C. Ticket ·G.A. or S.A.  Buy my SC ticket!  
with finances. Anyone interested  HELP ME PLEASE I Need a ride to  Please call Anne 634-3445.  Taking best offer.  sale-tix book(BC,USC,Navy)  BROU- 
please leave a message with Tim  University of Miami of Ohio Oct 13  Mel x1286  Sr.Sec.Best offer. 284-5231  Happy 19th Birthday!  And no I still  
(#4-1998).  Call Erin 1431  NEED 3 NAVY G.A.'S. HAVE  won't do your homework.  
TWO STUD. USC TIX TO TRADE  I'M DESPERATE for your BC GA's  WILL TRADE CHGO BEAR, CHGO  
LITTLE FLOWER HOME DAY­ I NEED A RIDE  OR UPGRADE. CALL NICOLE  Please call ALISA 271-8346  BULL, CHGO SYMPHONY, OR  
CARE. LOVING, STIMULATIVE  to TEXAS for fall break  X4905  LYRIC OPERA TIX FOR GA USC  HEY YOU! Buy my USC ticket  
ENVIRONMENT. MOTHER, EDU­CATOR. SPECIAL DISCOUNTS. LICENSED. 284-0708.  273-5281 I  HELP!Need USC tickets, will pay lots,call Michelle,634-2497  California Dad needs 2 USC GAs together. Call Nicole 277-9414  OR BC TIX. 708-330-3155 ••need 5 navy GA's••  before O.J. does. Call1-4872. Thank you St.Jude for prayers  
ILOST & FOUND I HOME:~R:E~=~D  NEEDED: 4 USC and 2 Navy GA tickets. Call at 273-6374  Need 2 GAs 4 USC Call x2875 NEED USC GA'S AND STUD TX  Please call Kristy at x2270 NO ALUM NEEDS 2 OR 4 TICK­ETS TO BC GAME OCT. 28. CALL  answered. Need ride back to NO Oct 22 from Iowa. Jim X1581  
REWARD:  for black book bag  232-2595  **********PLEASE HELP!*"'*********  NICK 232-1726  COLLECT (810)269-9022 OR JEN­ 
taken from SOH during the week­ •NEED 1 NAVY GA!•  NYMIKE@ AOL.COM  
end. Reward more than worth of  THAT PRETTY PLACE. Bed and  •CALL COLLEEN AT X2191•  #####################  
books. I need my notes back.  Breakfast Inn has space available  Looking for 1 USC stud. ticket to  BABYSITIER NEEDED FOR 2  St. Edward's Hall Players  
Matt x1655  for football wknds. 5 rooms with pri­ NEED 4 WASH. TIX  convert to GA and 1 BC stud. ticket.  ALUMNI CHILDREN DURING THE  are holding  
vate baths. Located in Middlebury,  CALLX2855  Please call Todd @ 273-8975  USC GAME. ALSO NNED USC  OPEN AUDITIONS  
Found: A pair of brown clogs  30 miles from campus. 1-800-418­ TICKETS. PLEASE PAGE ME AT  For their production of  
in 1707 T. Creek East #7.  9487  CALIFORNIA GIRLS NEED  1-800-946-4646, PIN#5295353  One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest  
They have been in our apartment a  2 USC TICKETS  NEED NAVY TIX!  Wed.-Thurs. 8-10 p.m.  
long time and your feet must  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE  GA'S OR STUDENT  AMY 616-473-2636  HELP! HELP! HELPI Alumnus des­ @ 127 Nieuwland  
be cold and bleeding. Call  HOME FOR  CALLX2089  perately needs 5 USC tix. Please  Call Colin @ x1567 w/ questions  
273-2858 to retrieve your shoes!  ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE  ASK FOR PETE  Need 1 stud. tckt. for BC game for  call 215-988-1788 day, or 215-836­ ######################  
TO CAMPUS. CALL 272-6194 AM  my brother w/ 6 toes. Ryan # 1836  9150 home.  
FOUND:  gold ring with features.  In  OR 232-9620 PM  NEED 4 USC GAs  Katie 4015  The Days of Our Lives  
parking lot next to Infirmary  & ASK FOR SANDY.  I NEED GA'S MEGAN X3890  I need 2 BC ga's. Ryan@273-4791  Correspondents are still looking for  
between Stanford and St. Michaels  Need 2 USC GA's  more soap opera update people. if  
Laundry. Last week in August. x4205 to describe and claim.  Call  FOR SALE  Will Pay For Them Call Rusty x-0993  Need 1 USC Ticket Student or GA. Call Anne x4896.  Need USC GA's. Will Pay $$ or Have Navy GA's to Trade. Call Erin  you want to see your byline in The Observer, call 634-4220 and ask for  
at #4021  Erin and Christina. Please be ready  
FOUND: PRESCRIPTION GLASS­ Tired of the cluster?  Gateway 2000  I need tickets for BC, USC, and  CA family needs 3 BC GAs.  to write 200 words a week!  
ES IN ST. MICHAEL'S LAUNDRY  DOS/Windows PC, some software,  Navy.  Please call Bryan.  Please!  Need two BC tickets ­ Student or  
DISTRIBUTION CENTER.  draft printer $575. x1-7638.  272-4249  Call Clara  x4826  GA-Call John at X1694  SENIORS!!!!!!!SENIORS!!!!!!!!!!  
CLAIM BETWEEN 8 AM & 4:30 PM  WASHINGTON SUITCASE  
MON-FRI.  USC std tx 4 sale  NEEDED: 2 USC tickets (GA)  PARTY!!!!!  
Yamaha 400 Speciaiii,MINT-$650,  #3959  WILL TRADE 2 GA BC FOR 2 SC  Call Liz at 4-2355  ALUMNI SENIOR CLUB-THUR­ 
LOST: Gold necklace with a  RCA 20" Colortrack-$175, Prince  GA/STDNT TX. ALSO NEED 1 OR  DAY OCTOBER 5, 1995  
round, multi-colored glass pendant.  Synergy Tennis Raquet-$80,  NEED USC TICKETSII  2 STDNT TEX TX. DON (714) 990·  Have 1 USC GA, willing to trade for  Win Airfare, hotel accomadations,  
Please call Uyen @  Kickboxing/Sparring gear-$80  I you have any stud. tix, or stud­ 0890.  1 BC GA. Call Doug @ (413)592­ and game tickets to the irish game  
273-3174.  ga's call Todd or Mike at x1201.  0215  in Seattle!!ll Raffle Tickets-$5  
1993 Tercel, 2 door, stick, AC,  SENIORS!II!IIISENIORS!II!II!II!I!  
WANTED  AM/FM tape, 24,000 miles. $8,600.00 Call287-0146  NEEDEDI USC or BC STU. TIX Please call Justin@x1811  My parents are coming from PHOENIX! Need 2-4 NAVY GA's or  
student tix to upgrade call Maria  When the breakdown came at mid­ 
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT­ Spring Break Bahamas Party  Need 4 USC GAs  I NEED TICKETS FOR THE  anytime x4678  night there was nothing left tosay,  
Students Needed! Fishing Industry.  Cruise! Early Specials! 7 Days  Call Chad at X3384  WASHINGTON GAME.  except that I hated him, and I hated  
Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per month. Room and Board!  $27911ncludes 15 Meals & 6 Parties! Great Beaches/Nightlife!  NEED BCTKT  CALL CHRIS 4-4204  PERSONAL  you went you went away.  
Transportation! Male or Female. No  Prices Increase 11/21 & 12/151  WILL TRADE USC TKT  
experience necessary. Call  Spring Break Travel 1-800-678­ OR PAY$$$  000 THE COPY SHOP  000  I'm taking a group to go see the  
(206)545-4155 ext A55841  6386  CALL KELLI X4044  LaFortune Student Center  Pope this weekend in New York.  
$$ PLEASE HELP$$  We're open for your convenience [II  We'll be leaving Friday night  
I need a ride to the Chicago sub­ Spring Break! Panama City! Early  USCGA's  '94 NO ALUM NEEDS  Mon-Thur: 7:30am -Midnight  after SYR's, and we should be  
urbs Oct.6-can you help? call Leah  Specials! 8 Days Oceanview Room  Best offer x2450  BC & USC STUD OR GA TIX  Fri.: 7:30am-7:00pm  back Saturday night. If you'd  
x3735  With Kitchen $1291 Walk To Best  CALL 516-326-2659  Sat.: Noon -6:00pm  like to come along and party  
Bars! Key West $259! Cocoa Beach  BC  BC  BC  BC  BC  Sun.:  Noon -Midnight  with the Pope, please give me  
flide ­ Bost_o~;J to S9uth Bend for  Hilton $1691 Prices Increase 11/21  Be GAs needed badly call Maureen  4 USC Tickets for Sale.  (closed home football Saturdays)  a call at 4531.  
desperate Law Student, 10/21 or  & 12/15! 1-800-678-6386  at 284-5271  Call4-4831.  -Pat Belton  
10/22. Call Jay at 634-4219.  BC  BC  BC  BC  BC  0D000D0D0D0D0D0D0D0D0  
TICKETS  Need USC stud. tix Call Doug  Need 2 BC GA's! Will trade 2 Navy GA's.  QUALITY COPIES, QUICKLVIII THE COPY SHOP  how 'bout them dumpsters, huh?  
Tutor is needed for a sophomore at  x1835  Ryan x-1382  LaFortune Student Center  
St. Joseph High School who is tak­ A DEVOTED IRISH FAN NEEDS  Phone 631-COPY  -Saint Mary's Speech Pathology  
ing honors chemistry. Please call  GA'S TO ANY/ALL  I NEED BC & USC GA'S  0D0D0D0D0D0D0D0D0D0D0  Club Meeting Thursday 6 p.m. in  
her after 4PM at 277-5433.  HOME/AWAY GAMES.  CALL 288-2877  I HAVE 4 NAVY GA'S AND I AM  Moreau Room 228... New and old  
219-232-0061, 24 HRS.  
 LOOKING FOR USC GA'S OR  STEPAN COURT TIME:  memberss welcome. Please con­ 
Seeking in home child care for an  •• I Have 2 GA's for usc••  USC STUDENT TICKETS.  Any group requesting weekly court  tact Kelly Larkin at 273--0462 or  
adorable baby. 1-4 days/wk  Call Tom@ 273-9249 and  If you have USC tix, call  time at Stepan for basketball or vol­ Amy Ashby at 232-7991 if you have  
M-Th. 631-6561.  TICKET-MART, INC.  leave your BEST offer  Tom at x3893  leyball must attend a meeting- any questions. guest speaker will  
WANTED  Thursday, Oct. 5  be Mary Hay from St. Joe's  
HELP WANTED  GA'S FOR ANY/ALL  Wanted: 5 tickets to the Navy  4pm-Montgomery Theatre  Hospital, speaking on internshipss  
10-30 hrs./flex. sched.  HOME/AWAY NO GAMES.  game. Either GA's or Students. Am  NEED TICKETS FOR WASHING­ LaFortune  in the field of speech pathology  
All majorslschol. avail.  BUY.SELL•TRADE  willling to pay $$$$. Call Brian at  TON GAME, CALL KRISTINA @  For more information call Student  
$10.25/282-2357  (219) 232-0058-24 HRS.  x3061.  (503)220-8958.  Activities, 631-7308.  
I \.  -----------------­____________j  

Thursday, October 5, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
Polo Ralph Lauren Factory Store 


• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Horseback Trail Ride -RecSports will be sponsoring a trail ride on Sunday, October 8. Transportation will be provided and you must :r~gister in advance at lt,~~$ports •.Participants must 
,,,,P,f.I,VI) J.'idden'a horse at least once. The fee is $15.00. For more info. call 1-1600. 
Domer Runs -The runs will take place on Saturday, October 7 at 11:00 a.m. There will be a 3 and 6 mile 
,,run, ·Participants can register in advance at RecSports for $5.00 and on the day of the race for $6.00. For more info. call1-1600. 
Jazz Dance -RecSports will be offering a jazz, dance class on Monday and Wednesday night from 6:30 -·7:45.. There will *he-an:.!:' infonnational meeting on Monday, October 9 at 6:30 in Rockne Rm. 219. 
The fee for the class will be $25.00 and registration wiU start October 10. 
In-Line Skating Clinic -RecSports will be offering a clinic on Monday, October 9 at 5:15 in the South Parking lot of the Joyce Center. The fee is $5.00 and call 1-1600 for more info. 
Women's Lacrosse -Fall practice is 4 • 6 p.m. on Mondays and Wednesdays at Stepan Field. Call Allison at 239-7924, Erin at x2639, or Tara at x1392 with any ques­tions. 
Saint Mary's Basketball • This is the last call for Varsity Basketball at Saint Mary's College. Interested individu­als are to report to the Angela Facility, Monday, October 9th and Wednesday, October 11th at 8:00 p.m. for open gym . 

• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Reds capitalize on



BACK-TO-CAMPUS 
Dodger err~rs in win 

SAVINGS.. 
The Polo Ralph Lauren Factory Store zvelcomes you back to Notre Dame University with a special offer: 
20o/o Off on your entire purchase, now through October 8th. 
Present this ad and show your current student J.D., yo11'll save an additional 20% on everything. 

Michigan City 

101 Lighthouse Place 601 Wabash St., (219) 874-9442 
Take I-80/90 west to Westville exit, go north on Hwy. 421 for 5 to 6 miles to 8th St., turn left and go 2 blocks. 
By JOHN NADEL 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 

The Cincinnati Reds took ad­
vantage of Giveaway Night at 
Dodger Stadium. 
The Reds, handed scoring chances and runs all evening, beat the Los Angeles Dodgers 5-4 Wednesday to take a 2-0 lead in their NL playoff series. 
Eric Karros homered twice for the Dodgers, who outhit Cincinnati 14-6. But Los Ange­les could not overcome a key error, a botched pitchout and three walks that led to the eventual winning run. The Dodgers also lost right fielder Raul Mondesi, ejected after the seventh inning. 
Karros hit a two-run homer with one out in the ninth, mak­ing it 5-4. But Jeff Brantley retired Tim Wallach and Delino DeShields for a save. 
Cincinnati's first two runs, on a homer by Reggie Sanders, were set up by a throwing er­ror by shortstop Chad Fonville. Then, with the score 2-2, a wide throw by catcher Mike Pi­azza on a pitchout led to an­other run. 
The Reds added two more in the ninth on only one hit, a two-out RBI single by Mariano Duncan, who scored an inning earlier on Larkin's hit. 
The rest of the best-of-5 se­ries is in Cincinnati, starting with Game 3 Friday night. Hideo Nomo (13-6, 2.54 ERA) will pitch for the Dodgers against David Wells (6-5, 3.59 ERA). 
The game was played before a paid crowd of 46,051 ­about 10,000 below a sellout. A crowd of 44,199 attended Tuesday night's game, won by the Reds 7-2. 
This game was one of missed opportunities for the Dodgers. They had 14 hits -four by 
Fonville -and stranded 11 runners, eight of them in the 
Fremont 
fifth, sixth and seventh innings. Piazza, second in the NL with a
Horizon Outlet Center 
.346 average, finished 0-for-5. 6245 North Old 27, (219) 833-6255 
They also missed Mondesi, 
ejected by plate umpire Bob 
Davidson after the seventh in­
Take I-80/90 east to exit #144, 
ning. Mondesi was the on-deck follow the signs to SR 120, 
hitter when DeShields fouled 
out with the bases loaded to 
end the inning, and was tossed 
for apparently making remark 
to Davidson. 
Duncan singled with one out 
in the eighth off loser Antonio 
Osuna. With Larkin was bat­
ting, Duncan stole second on 
an 0-2 pitch, beating Piazza's 
wide throw. Larkin followed by 
looping a single down the 
right-field line. 
The Reds combined three 
walks, three steals and Dun­
can's single to score twice in 
the ninth. Mark Lewis had an 
RBI grounder. 
Dave Burba, the second of four Cincinnati pitchers, earned the victory with one scoreless inning of relief. 
Dodgers starter Ismael Valdes retired the first 11 bat­ters before Ron Gant reached second with two outs in the fourth on a wild throw by Fonville. 
Sanders made the Dodgers pay for the mistake with a home run to center for a 2-1 lead. Fonville took over at shortstop in the last month for All-Star Jose Offerman, who made 35 errors. 
The Dodgers tied it in a hurry as Karros hit John Smiley's second pitch in the bottom half over the fence in center, close to where Sanders' ball went out. 
The Dodgers had taken a 1-0 lead in the first on a leadoff single by Brett Butler, a sacri­fice by Fonville and a two-out double by Karros. 
The Dodgers didn't score in the fifth, sixth and seventh de­spite getting a total of seven hits and a walk in the three in­nings. 
Piazza fouled out with two runners on tu end the fifth and Valdes flied out with the bases loaded to finish the sixth. 
The Dodgers reloaded the bases with one out in the sev­enth, but Wallach grounded into a forceout at the plate and DeShields fouled out on a 3-2 pitch. 
Smiley was lifted after six in­nings. He allowed nine hits and walked none. Valdes went seven innings, allowing just three hits and no unearned runs. 

corner of SR 120 and SR 127 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with an Observer ad 


I '--page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, October 5, 1995 
1 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL
BASEBALL PLAYOFF BRACKET 
DIVISION SERIES LEAGUE CHAMPIONSHIP (best-of.5) SERIES (best-of-7) 
Hershiser sparks Tribe to win
bet. 3-8 Oct. 1()-18 
By CHUCK MELVIN boosted his record to 5-0 with a The Red Sox lost their 12th Associated Press save and a 1.52 ERA in nine consecutive postseason game career postseason appear­dating to Bill Buckner's infa­CLEVELAND ances, eight of them starts. He mous error in Game 6 of the AMERICAN Seven years later, the playoffs was the MVP of both the NL 1986 World Series, a string still bring out the best in Orel playoffs and the World Series that was extended by a 5-4, 13­
SEA1TLE . LEAGUE 

Hershiser. for Los Angeles in 1988. inning loss in Tuesday night's
MAffl~.fERS o-2~ ·· 

Making his first postseason He underwent major shoul­series opener. appearance since he won the der surgery in 1990 and has Mo Vaughn and Jose
NEWYORK ; 

clinching game of the 1988 been working his way back Canseco, the third and fourth
Y~~JC:f;ES z-o----' 

World Series, Hershiser gave since. hitters in Boston's lineup, have I up three hits in 7 1-3 scoreless ''I'm pretty much in awe that gone a combined 0-for-20 with I innings as the Cleveland Indi­this is happening to me," he seven strikeouts in the two 
I 
ans beat Boston 4-0 Wednesday said. games.
I 
night for a 2-0 lead in the AL "To continue to have success "Sure, it's frustrating, but
I 
playoffs. at this stage in my career after you have to give a lot of credit 
I 
Eddie Murray homered and going through the surgery -to Orel," Canseco said. 
I 
Omar Vizquel doubled home the only thing I ask myself is to "His ball was moving all over
I 
two runs for the Indians, who give my best. the place. I go back to facing
I 
~ need only one more win in the "My movement and my ve­him in '88 (when Canseco was 
I. 
best-of-5 series. It continues locity are back to where they with Oakland), and he threw l Friday in Boston, with the Red were pre-surgery. The thing harder then. But he's plenty I Sox sending knuckleball pitcher I'm still working on a little bit is tough right now. He was awe­~ Tim Wakefield against Charles playing with that loaded gun. It some tonight with sinkers,
I 
AP 
Nagy. kind of surprises me once in a breaking balls, and hitting The 3 7 -year-old Hershiser while." spots."
I 
I • MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBAll. 
I 
Have something to say?

~ 
I 
Braves escape with 2-0 lead 
Use The Ob1erver classifieds.

I 
~ 
By JOHN MOSSMAN to center, with McGriff taking Pinch-hitter Dwight Smith Associated Press second, and Mordecai -bat­doubled with one out in the
t 
... ting for pitcher Alejandro Pena eighth but was stranded when DENVER -lined a single to center to Curtis Leskanic struck out Gris­
! HAPPY
Yet again, the Atlanta Braves drive home the go-ahead run. som and got Lemke on a fly made a great escape against Mordecai took second on the ball. the Colorado Rockies. throw home. Rafael Belliard Colorado finally went ahead 


l]_ST

For the second straight game, then hit a routine grounder to after Bichette doubled off Steve the Braves could not put away second, but Eric Young's throw Avery in the eighth. Avery, who the Rockies until the ninth in-to first was low and wide. came in to start the inning, was BIRTHDAY­ning, winning 7-4 Wednesday Pena got the win for the sec­making his first relief appear­night and going home with a 2-ond straight night, and Mark ance since the 1992 NL playoffs 
LITTLE

0 lead in the NL playoff series. Wohlers pitched a one-hit ninth against Pittsburgh. for his second save of the se­Walker struck out, and Galar­The latest bit of theatrics ries. Munoz was the loser for raga greeted Pena with a dou­
'PRINCE 

came courtesy of Fred McGriff the Rockies, in the playoffs in ble just over the glove of and Mike Mordecai, who hit just their third season. Justice at the base of the wall 
• ..... Love,

RBI singles in the ninth for At­The series now goes to At­in right. lanta. The Rockies compounded lanta. In Game 3 on Friday Grissom's first homer came · Mom, Dad their troubles· by allowing two night, John Smoltz (12-7) is off Lance Painter's fastball more runs on an error. scheduled to pitch for the down the middle and traveled 
& Meghan

On Tuesday night, the Braves Braves against Bill Swift (9-3). 428 feet to right-center. won 5-4, with the Rockies load­Braves starter Tom Glavine ing the bases in the ninth and breezed through the first five forced to use a pitcher to innings, giving up just two hits pinch-hit in their final at-bat. and one walk. But then in the 
Larry Walker's three-run sixth, Ellis Burks reached base 
Bust! Washington or Bust! 

homer and Andres Galarraga's on shortstop Jeff Blauser's RBI single had given Colorado a throwing error, and Dante 4-3 lead going to the ninth Bichette produced his second Wednesday night, overcoming a pop-fly hit. Walker then home­pair of solo homers by Marquis red to right-center, a 442-foot Grissom, who increased his drive. · series total to three. Atlanta, which stranded 12 
But Chipper Jones led off the runners, left the bases loaded 







WASHINGTON 
inning by slicing a double down in the seventh. With one out, the left-field line off Curtis Bruce Ruffin allowed a single to Leskanic. Jones and a walk to McGriff. 
Mike Munoz then gave up a Justice then blooped a single to bloop single to McGriff, which right, with Jones stopping at scored Jones. David Justice third. 

SUITCASE PARTY 
flied out and Darren Holmes Ruffin, however, struck out struck out Javy Lopez. Lopez and retired pinch-hitter Mike Devereaux then singled Mike Devereaux on a ground­

out. 
-· In-Line :; ' ·skating Clinic 

.... 
Monday, October 9 5:15-6:30 PM Parking Lot South of the Joyce Center 
E ui ment Provided 
Advance Registration at RecSports Required $5.00Fee AllLevels Welcome 
. 631-6100 

Alumni/Senior Club Thursday, October 5; 1995 Win Airfare, Hotel Accommodations and Game Tickets for Two to see the Irish in Seattle, WAI Raffle Tickets $5 
Other Upcoming Senior Class Events at Alumni/Senior Club: 
Jeopardy! Round 2-Thursday, October 12 Halloween Party-Tuesday, October 31 
. . . ' ( .
. ... ..........' 

Thursday, October 5, 1995 The Observer· SPORTS page 15 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Leyritz lifts Yankees to win 
By CHRIS SHERIDAN Associated Press 
NEWYOHK .Jim Leyritz got his revenge against the Seattle Mariners. 
Leyritz hit a two-run homer in the 15th inning Wednesday night, ending the longest game in AL playoff history and giving the New York Yankees a 7-5 victory and a 2-0 lead in the best-of-5 series. 
"It's my first playoff game and it felt great watching that ball go over the fence," said Leyritz, who sat out Game 1 in favor of Mike Stanley. ''I've been here five years and it's the first time I've seen the fans like this." 
Leyritz. who vowed retalia­tion after he was hit in the face by Seattle's Handy Johnson on May 31, was hit again in this game aftnr Ruben Sierra and Don Mattingly connected for consecutive home runs in the sixth inning. 
IIe got even by homering on a 3-1 pitch from Tim Belcher with one out after a walk to Pat Kelly. 
Ken Griffey hit his third home run of the series, tying an AL playoiT record, for a 5-4 in the 12th. Sierra tied it with a two­out double, with the potential winning run thrown out at the platn. 
Belchnr, who pitched 2 2-3 innings, was expected to start Game 3 at the Kingdome if the Mariners had won. Instead, .Johnson will pitch Friday on three days' rest for the second time this week. 
"We're pretty confident, but Randy Johnson is going Friday and he's a tough competitor. But we feel pretty good up 2· 0," Leyritz said. 
The game lasted 5 hours, 13 minutes, and ended in a light mist -the longest game by time in postseason history. 
The previous longest AL play­off game -both in time and innings -came Tuesday night when Cleveland beat Boston 5­4 in 5:01. 
Rookie Mariano Rivera pitched two-hit ball for 3 1-3 scoreless innings for the win, striking out five. 
It looked like Seattle would win after Griffey's homer off John Wetteland, but the Yan­kees tied it in the 12th when Sierra came within a couple of feet of matching Griffey. 
With runners on first and second and two outs, Sierra doubled otT the top of the wall in left otT Belcher. Pinch-runner Jorge Posada scored, but Bernie Williams was thrown out at the plate on a perfect re­lay throw to send the game into the 13th. 
Griffey, who homered twice in Game 1, tied the record for home runs in an AL playoff se­ries set by George Brett (twice) and Jose Canseco. 
Both teams were upset all night by the umpiring. 
Yankees owner George Stein­brenner even called reporters into a video room and played a tape of several disputed calls. It was the second straight night he had complained publicly about the umpiring. The Mariners also argued several called strikes. 
Wetteland threw 50 pitches and worked 3 1-3 innings­more than triple his usual amount, but the Mariners also burned their best bullpen closers and had to turn to Belcher with one out in the 12th. 
It was Belcher's second relief appearance since 1988 -and one he'd like to soon forget. 
What was a slow-moving, 1-1 game through five innings started to get exciting from that point on. 
A double by Edgar Martinez and a two-out single by Tino Martinez made it 2-1 in the sixth, but consecutive homers by Sierra, his second of the series, and Mattingly, his fourth hit in his first six playoff at­bats, gave New York a 3-2 lead in the bottom half. 
Luis Sojo's RBI single in the seventh made it 3-3, and Grif­fey hit a sacrifice fly for a 4-3 lead. 
The Yankees tied it in the seventh on Paul O'Neill's homer to the bleachers in right field. 
Yankee manager Buck Showalter vehemently argued four calls: Vince Coleman's in­field single to third, a similar infield hit by Joey Cora, an in­side called third strike to Dion James and an inning-ending popup in the fifth on which a fan was on the field but time as not called. 
The sellout crowd of 57,126 was as critical of the umpires as Showalter and Steinbrenner were, saving their loudest com­ments for home plate umpire Dale Scott and first base ump Jim McKean, the crew chief. 

MORAGA, Calif. 

Sure. his contract Is small 
compared with the huge deals 
signed by No. 1 picks of the 
recent past. But Joe Smith fig· 
ures more than $8 million for 
three years will be plenty to 
live on comfortably. 
Smith, the top pick in last 
June's NBA draft, signed with 
Golden State on Wednesday 
and immediately joined other 
Warriors at a mini-camp 
workout. ··••······ Under the new salary scale 
for NaA rookies. the top draft 
pick is limited to a three-year 
deal worth from $7.11 million 
to $8.53 million. Smith report­
edly got the maximum. 
That's a fraction of the 10· 
year, $68.15 million contract 
top pick .Glenn Robinson 
signed with Milwaukee last 
year or the 15-year, $74.4 
million deal Chris Webber got 
from Golden State in 1993. 
"The amount of money I'm 
making now is a lot of 
money," said Smith, 20, who 
would have been starting his 
juJ}ior year at. Maryland if he 
had not entered the NBA 
draft, "so I can't really say 
I'm getting cheated." 
The new rookie salary 
structure made negotiations 
extremely easy for Warriors 
general manager Dave 
Twardzik, only com· 
•NBA 
No.1 pick Smith signs with Warriors 
plaint while joining Smith at a signing ceremony was that "he didn't even buy me lunch." 
The 6-foot-10, 225-pound Smith said he was glad the contract was signed and that he can focus on basketball when the Warriors open training camp Friday at San Luis Obispo. 
"There wasn't much to dis­cuss because of the signing situation," Smith said. 
"So it was just time for me to sign my name on the bot· tom line." 
Smith, who averaged 20.2 points and 10.7 rebounds a game during his two years at Maryland. was accompanied -as always -to the ceremo­ny by his mother, Letha, who will move from Norfolk, Va., to live with her youngest child during his frrst year as a pro. 
The Smiths, who have been looking for rental apartments in the San Francisco Bay area, are not seeking any· thing too luxUrious. 
"After raising seven kids, I can't even find the time to splurge," Letha Smith said. ''I've held on to the dollar and spent it wisely for many years, so it's going to be a while before I splurge. I'll still be looking for salos. 
"To us, $2 million or the $60 million that Robinson boy got last year or whatever is still a lot of money." 


The College of Business Administration presents 




AREER 
AY 199_ 
Friday, October 6, 1995 10:00 am--4:00pm Atrium of the College of Business Administration Building Complex 


Get a head start on your future! 
Over 35 companies will be represented in a speaking session or by hosting a table. We welcome all majors as well as undeclared sophomores and freshmen. Please pick up a brochure in the College of Business Administration Building 
Complex for session times and company listings . 
9 .... "' --.... F> ~ ... """' :-. -• 
o I It I I It' f ··~·,··-···-.-••• -.-.,-....,~-.. "' •••• • • • .. ' .. • ..... • 
----,_---~~·----~­
I page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, October 5, 1995 
tv I 


t Irish Lewis, P.W. hope to build on momentum 
continued from page 20 
practicing with the corner­backs, he missed time to learn the blocking schemes. According to Lou Holtz, his blocking has improved dra­matically. 
"I think Autry has had an ex­cellent week and will play a major role," Holtz said Wednesday, "He should see more action this week than last week." 
Recruiting News: The Irish received a surprise on the September 25, when 6-4, 230 pound Dan O'Leary verbally commited to play for the Irish in 1996. 
O'Leary is considered the best receiving tight end prospect in the country. Many felt that he would attend Penn St. or Boston College where the tight end is more of an offense weapon. But Irish football has always been a part of his life. 
"My parents are huge Notre Dame fans, and I grew up wanting to go to Notre Dame," he said. "As soon as I was born, my mom put a Notre Dame football in my hand." 
This was a huge commitment for the Irish. Both Leon Wal­lace and Pete Chryplewicz are seniors, and' past tight end re­cruits have been moved to the offensive and defensive lines. 
O'Leary is the third player to commit to the Irish thus far. He joins 6-3 260 pound offen­sive and defensive lineman 
B.J. Scott and 6-5 280 pound

.' offensive lineman Rob Mowl. Scott, an Indiana native, is considered one of the best linemen in the midwest, while Mowl is Pennsyvania's top of­fensive lineman. 
By TODD FITZPATRICK the turning point for our team," Spans Writer said O'Kain. 
P.E. hopes for a strong per­
In Sunday's match-up be­formance from freshman quar­tween Siegfried and Pasquerilla terback Elizabeth Plummer and East, each team wants to win sophomore wide receiver for different reasons. Karen Randesi, who caught the 
Siegfried wants to improve on game-winning touchdown in their first win of the season and the last game. move closer to a .500 winning percentage. Siegfried, formerly Off-Campus vs. P.W. ranked last in the Women's Off-Campus will attempt to Power Poll, stunned many rebound from their tough loss observers earli-.--------------.to Siegfried 
er this week when they upset a talented Off-Campus squad by a score of 13-8. 

In order to defeat P.E. on Sunday,quar­terback Jen Laurie and run­ning back Trisha Shafnitz must have continued success on offense, while Siegfried's strong defense must continue to play well. 
Captain Kaylee Lentino con­tributes her team's last win to recent improvements that have helped tremendously. 
"We've regrouped a lot since our last two losses," said Lentino. 
Pasquerilla East's goal is to move closer to a spot in the playoffs with another win. 
Pasquerilla East rebounded from a tie on Sunday to defeat Farley by a touchdown on Tuesday. 
Captain Sue O'Kain attributed her team's tie to very lethargic play, but she was happy with the way they rebounded to get an impressive win over Farley. 
"We pulled together as a team in the last game. It was when they face P.W., one of the top teams in w o m e n ' s Interhall foot­ball. 
Off-Campus captain Charo Gonzalez believes her team has excel­lent potential that has not yet 
been fulfilled. She emphasizes their great talent and ex­perience. 
Because Off-Campus has so many great athletes, Gonzalez cannot point to one or two in­dividuals that are better than the rest. Therefore Off-Campus must employ a balanced attack to defeat P.W. 
"Everyone on this team is good. We just need more prac­tice," commented Gonzalez. 
Pasquerilla West will try to defeat Off-Campus with key players such as quarterback Liz McCullough and defensive line­man Mary Hepburn. This very young team still remains unde­feated thus far in the season. 
Farley vs. Lewis Lewis heads into Sunday's game with momentum after 

Lyons, Badin try to rebound 
By ANNE NAPIERKOWSKI Spons Writer 
After yesterday's make-up games and today's regular sea­son competition, women's in­terhall football is full of action this week. 
After a disappointing tie with Badin last Sunday, the Lyons players are well prepared to take on undefeated Walsh tonight at Cartier field. 
"Against Badin we had prob­lems executing and scoring," said senior captian Julie Byrd. "But we are going back to the fundamentals." 
Byrd says the team is looking to their receiver Carrie Calahan and running back Jenny Radin to help theim break through Walsh's tough defense. 
Breen-Phillips vs. Cavanaugh 
Both Breen-Phillips and Ca­vanaugh are looking for their first victories of the season as they go head to head tonight. Injuries have plagued the Ban­shees' season including their starting quarterback, Laura Patterson who is out with a sprained wrist. 
Stepping in for Patterson is freshman Jenny Choi who will try to break the Banshee losing streak. 
But Choi and her offense will have to surmount Cavanaugh's star defensive linesman, Kate Coughlin. 
Coughlin and the defense have come up with some big plays this season, but the team 

,.-has had trouble maintaining confidence. "We play well at first but we have to keep up the intensity," said captian Katie McCoyd. McCoyd is confident with the way practices have been look­
ing. 

She said, "We expect to win if we can go out and play like we practice." 
Badin vs. Howard 

After coming up with a tie on Sunday with the former cham­pions of Lyons Hall, Badin feels confidence in their game tonight against Howard. Even with their star receiver Jill Sa­tanek out, the Badin attitude is fired up for a victory. 
"We will really phty a tough game," commented captain Fran Maloney. "We have a good idea of Howard's offensive and defensive runs. We have made minor adjustments to counteract their plays." 
Badin defense will especially watch out for freshman tailback Sara Murray who ran in two touchdowns for a total of 76 yards in Sunday's victory over Cavanaugh. 
The win gave Howard a boost of confidence for tonight's game. 
Beta Alpha Psi & The Boston consulting Group 
Tonight 6:30 PM Room 101 DeBartolo 
Pizza &Refreshments will be served, followed by BCG's presentation. 
ALL MAJORS WELCOME 

defeating Knott by a touch­more points on the board after down. Farley, however, must scoring only six points in their rebound after losing to Pas­last game. querilla East. Led by running back Camille 
Lewis' defense has been play­Clinton, Farley will attempt to ing very well lately, including improve on their last perfor­an important interception by mance against P.E. After play­Maureen Neville against Knott. ing a very solid game, they Offensive threats Liz Talarico were defeated by a last minute and Emily Miller hope to put touchdown. 



ND WRESTLINC 
Tuesday. october 3 at 4:15 Wednesday. october 4 at 6:00 Thursday. October 5 at 4:15 
Wrestling Room in JACC Located in Cym Near Recsports Office 
CINEMA AT T'HE SNIT'E 
presented by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
631·7361 
Cat People {1942) MON. 10/9 7:00 PM 
Sex, Lies, &Videotape TUE. 10/9 7:00 PM 
Man With aMovie Camera/ Triumph of the Will TUE. 10/10 9:00 PM 

World Wide Web<http://www.nd.edu/-cothweb/wwwsnite.html> 






Brought to you by YOUR Sophomore Council. 
Thursday, October 5, 1995 
Flanner, Morrissey set sights on top ranking 
By DAVE GRIFFITH Stanford will seek to rebound Spons Wrirer from last week's loss to Flanner with the help of cap­
With the Notre Dame football tain Chris Pullina, while Dillon, team in a must win situation behind the arm of their strong this weekend to salvage their offensive unit will try and con­season, lnterhall grid iron tinue their winning ways after teams are facing the music as last week's 8-7 squeaker over well as playoff time nears. Grace. 
The first .--------------, team in this Morrissey vs. situation is No. Grace ~ raf.lked In the third K e e n a n . game, No. 3 Keenan (0-1-1) ranked offen­will face No. 2 sive dynamo r a n k e d Morrissey (2-1­Fianner, who 0) will take on boasts a 2-0 No. 8 ranked r e c o r d , Grace Hall (1­Thursday night 2). Grace, one at Stepan field. of the few 
Fullback and L---------------' teams that co-captain Hob plays a five Wolf said that in order to sue-game schedule will look to ceed against the well rounded even their record in hopes of Flanner squad quarterback securing a playoff bid. Chad Chevalier and wide re-Grace assistant rector and coiver Malt Hechner must team head coach Anthony click. Coury said 
The potent offensive duo "We need a big show from have great potential according our line on both sides of the to Wolf but havo not connected ball as well as a solid perfor­yet this year. mance from quarterback Brian 
Wolf said, "Flanner is a well-Perez and wide receiver Mike rounded team who can hurt Dwyer." you in all areas. They're also Also of great concern to the very well disciplined. This is a Flanner squad is Morrissey's big game for us." prolific rusher and two time 
. Flannor hopes to build on Player of the Week, Mark Tate. last weeks 14-6 win over Tate, who recorded 160 yards Stanford behind the sturdy legs on just nine carries last week of running back J.P. in their 13-0 blanking of a Fenningham. highly touted Off Campus, 
hopes to find wide open field 
Stanford vs. Dillon again this week. 
Second on Thursday night's Morrissey's defense will also triple bill is No. 4 ranked prove a great obstacle for Stanford (1-1-0) versus No. 7 Grace as they held Off Campus ranked Dillon (2-0-1 ). scoreless last Sunday. 
Please recycle The Observer 
Flowers, Roses,
FLOWERS 

Balloons, Birthday
DELIVERED 
Cakes, Fruit Baskets,
w7 DAYSW 

Plush Animals and Gifts 

Clocktower Square ALL MAJOR CREDIT Phone Answered 
51400 US 31 North 24 Hours a Day
CARDS ACCEPTED 277-1291 or 1-800-328-0206 
South Bend 
Happy 21st I 
Sweets! 
From, Petro 
Perry shared time with Mam­molenti at tailback against Zahm and showed some flashes of brilliance. His great size and speed, along with the already­established members of the Dawg offense, could prove impossible for the Steds to overcome. 
The same holds true on the other side of the ball. Alumni has the size to overpower an offense that has yet to put any points on the board, and St. Ed's will find it very difficult to do anything about it. 
Carroll vs. Fisher 
The nun in "Blues Brothers" told Jake and Elwood Blues not to come back until they had re­deemed themselves. They did, and so did the Carroll Vermin last week. A week after being annihilated by Zahm 34-0, Car­roll showed the offensive fire­power that made them one of higher ranked teams in this year's lnterhall. 
The highly regarded back­field of fullback Joe Schenner and Jeff Kloska returned to form against Sorin. Each scored a touchdown, and each ran at will, with Kloska racking up 80 yards and Schenner 29. Quarterback Tim Nelson mixed in a pass when necessary and kept the defense off balance all day. 
Fisher, on the other hand, has shown some offensive po­tential. However, they were able to put away St. Ed's last week only with the help of sev­eral crucial penalties by the Steds. Against defenses of higher ranked teams, such as Carroll, the Green Wave simply has been unable to score. 
The major weakness in a sus­pect Fisher defense is its sus­ceptibility to the big plays, such as those it gave up to Zahm in Week 1. And guess what? Carroll's offense has been known to put points on the board in almost no time. If Fisher is unable to contain, much less stop, Carroll's potent attack, this game could be over very quickly. 

By TIM MCCONN 
Sports Wrirer 
Who says that there needs to be a "Game of the Century" ev­ery week? Every once in a while, the upper-echelon teams Jove to take a break from their rigorous schedules and play a not-so-fortunate opponent they can beat up on. This seems to be the case this weekend. If you're hoping to catch an ln­terhall upset, don't waste your time this Sunday. 
After two straight weeks of playing highly-ranked oppo­nents, the Zahm Rabid Bats don't have an off week, but they do get the closest thing to it. At 1 :00 p.m.. No.1 Zahm is already licking its chops, anx­iously awaiting the chance to pile it on No. 12 Sorin. 
After scoring 22 and 34 points in Weeks 1 and 2, respectively, Zahm's offense was held scoreless by Alumni last week until a late fourth quarter touchdown put them ahead to stay. 
This week, Chris Orr, Travis Krahl, and the rest of the gang face a lackluster defense that has given up considerable yardage and points each week. especially last week when the Screamin' Otters surrendered nearly 150 yards rushing to Carroll. This is their chance to renew an offense that proved lethal in Weeks 1 and 2, com­plementing the defense so well. 
Speaking of defense, Zahm does that pretty well too. The "Red Swarm" defense gave up their first points of the season last· week, a field goal to Alumni, their toughest oppo­nent to date. Despite this slight falter, they once again came up big when they had to. Dan Glennon's interception set up the game-winning touchdown, and the defense's fourth-down 

stand sealed the game for Zahm. 
Sorin does indeed have one thing going its way: the offense has momentum, if you can call 
. it that. Led by athletic quarter­back Chris Bryant, Sorin scored its first touchdown last week in three years. Momentum, maybe, but no one really expects the "Zahm­bies" to sleepwalk through this game. All signs point to yet an­other debacle by Zahm. Alumni vs. St. Ed's With No. 5 Alumni, who near­ly pulled off the upset against Zahm last week, facing winless and last-ranked St. Ed's, this game seems as much a no­brainer as the Zahm-Sorin matchup. The Dawgs have been able to run all over everybody. Even the vicous "Red Swarm" de­fense had difficulties with Alumni's smashmouth style. Up against a St. Ed's defense that has been quite vulnerable to the run all season, Alumni should have a field day. The successes of tailback Matt Mammolenti and the offensive line have been well documented, but a new weapon was unveiled last week. Brian 
I" EMAIL US AT: Class.of.1998@nd.edu CALL . 1-5225 VISIT US AT: 213 LaFortune, Mon & Thurs. 2-4pm 

page 18 
outburst brings him to within one point of the injured Lanza
Soccer 
with 16 points, and he is tied for the scoring lead with five
continued from page 20 
goals. Also emerging as a leader
their four game losing streak this year has been junior mid­came to an end against Loyola fielder Chris Mathis. Mathis
Marymount last week. Al­
has four goals and four assiststhough hampered heavily by this season for 12 points, al­injuries, the young Irish squad ready surpassing his total ofis compiling experience and, 10 last season. Mathis' play in one can only hope, confidence the midfield has been influen­with every game under their tial to the Irish's success, asbelt. 
has that of team captain andLeading the charge for Notre 
fellow midfielder Tony
Dame in Bill Lanza's absence Capasso.
has been junior midfielder 
Koloskov, Mathis, Capasso
Konstantin Koloskov. 
and company will need to con­Koloskov, who head coach tinue to play inspired soccer ifMike Berticelli singled out as a this Irish team is to achieveplayer who must provide the success in a season that hasIrish with leadership this year, seen them lose their top twohas done just that, compiling offensive players in Bill Lanza The Observer/Bran! Tasden 
either a goal or an assist in 
and Ryan Turner. Sophomore defender Dave Cutler and the rest of the Irish defense will attempt to raise their level of play
each of his last five games. 
A little momentum wouldn't tonight when they host Detroit. 
Koloskov's recent offensive 
hurt either. representing the dorm in a ing against my own team," said

Debate 
good or bad way." Magenis. "''ve played P.W. 
Helenbrook and Magenis Interhall football for three

Walsh remains 
continued from page 20 
responded that although their years, and I love the chance to playing time may be reduced play with my friends and repre­

clearly the best alternative. 
somewhat, the freshman and sent the dorm." 

"I think it's ridiculous," said 
other newcomers would benefit Although the rule has been in 

Lewis captain Debbie Droll. "If 
the most in the end. effect since the decision to form

they want to play for their old 
"They might have a little less an Off-Campus team, it is by no

teams, I don't see what the big 
playing time, but they will defi­means set in stone. O'Leary

deal is. They've earned the 
nitely learn a lot more," said has listenend to the students'

right to play for their old teams 
Helenbrook. "P.W. has always complaints and has stated that

by what they've done for their 
played all their players, and the RecSports will meet again withwere dorms in the past." 

freshman always learn a lot the dorm rectors in the imme­being out Added Off-Campus team cap­from the older players." diate future to decide if it istwo weeks ago. tain Charo Gonzalez, "The stu­O'Leary cites that RecSports best to change the rule. 

Walsh kicked dents should definitely have a supported the formation of the "We are not opposed tooff the evening choice. They (RecSports) are Off-Campus team in order to changing the rule, but we willwith a solid 7~o taking this way too seriously. 
give every male and female the have to meet to discussvictory over Ca­Even though the girls are not 

opportunity to compete in whether a rule change would

vanaugh to part of the dorm, they are still a Interhall sports. However, benefit the most people," saidimprove their part of Notre Dame." 
many of the students did not O'Leary. "With the growing

record to 4-0. According to O'Leary, one of choose to play on the team as a number of people who sharescoreless until the chief reasons that the rule result of their ties to their the same complaint, I wouldn't back· Carolyn has yet to be overturned is the dorm. rule out a change next season." 
ed with tight possibility that the upperclass­

·fueclosing ..,..;..,,.-,.,, 
men from off campus will grad­"The defens ually take the place of upcom­played a solid ing freshmen. "One argument defensive co<•rdiinator is that the off-campus students Alexander. would be playing instead of the freshman or transfer students," Howard vs. B~P. said O'Leary. "Those players No. 10 Howard showed off coming from off campus would their brilliant defense In an 8-also have a much bigger 0 ·victory over No..<· r·:~.:ranlted responsibility. They would be 
ALL STEI'IEOIIIII ALL CINEMASIIIII 
IARGAIII MAniiEES EVERY DAY 
AU SHOWS S'IUTIK IEFOIE 6 PM
r£' ''j'&''•l'.,:,f.t' ~B'11
UNM MU Dlf¥1 277-7ll6 '7jl 
"The Big Green" (PGl 2:00, 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 
"Steal Big, Steal Little" (PG 13) : 

SATURDAY, OCTOBER 7 
2:15,5:00,8:15 . 
"Hackers" (PG 13) 

11:00 AM-STEPAN CENTER 
2:00, 4:20, 7:00, 9:20 

. ·, 3&6MILERUNS
"Clockers" (Rl 2:30, 5:30, 8:30 

AND 
"Desperado" (Rl 

. . PANCAKEBREAKFAST .. ­
I ·,
1:30,4:15, 7:15,9:40 

T-SHIRTS TO ALL FINISHERS 
REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS 
$5.00 IN ADVANCE & $6.00 DAY OF RACE 
"To Won!! Foo" 

STUDENT AND STAFF DIVISIONS 
2·f5, 4:40,7:15,9:45 
"Usual Suspects" 

FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL RECSPORTS AT 1-610
2:00, 4:30, 6:50, 9:20 



"I couldn't even imagine play-Thus, the debate rolls on ... 
Raise Your Scores! 
Small Classes+ Dynamic Instructors Practice Testing + Free Extra-Help 

PRINCETON REVIEW 
THE (800) 2-REVIEW 
lnfo.chlcago@revlew.com 
The Princeton Review is not affiliated with Princeton University or E.T.S. 

CLase do~n a ~ouple yourself. 
4:15 p.m.-Women's Varsity Race 
5:00 p.m. -Men's Varsity Race 2:45p.m. -Gold Men's Race 3:30p.m. -Junior Varsity Race 
Notre Dame Gol urse 


CALVIN AND HOBBES \\1, CALIJ li'l. 

I'M ALMOST \)()1-.\E . IS~i; IT F\Jt-.1? II'S L\'(E ,._ 
l'IJE BE'a-l 
'1\S\JAL\ZI~E.

11A~E Yov 
TREASURE 1-\iJ\-.IT!
11-IE

Sif>.RTED 
cO!'\cmw..uZ.A11oN

iO\JR w.r-
I
PROCESS.

coLLtc.iiOt-1 
iET ;> 
11-IAT'S 11-\t. 


BILL WATTERSON 
fl. W.EA'S\JRE \-1\Jt-.11 ?.'" ARE YOIJ CRf>.L.i ?i' n\1':> 1'5 A 51\JP\0, BORING, Tl!v\t.·Wf'.ST\t-1 
FoRCED /\'SS\G~l'/1~~~! 
11-\1'5 \'St--1'1 ~Ui'l .1 

DILBERT 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Uncleaned 6 Street pavement sign 9 Biscayne Bay site 14 Poe poem "For 
15 Whole bunch 16 Li'l one 11 Choice from a 
masher 20 French film award 21 University motto word 22 "I can't believe 
il!" 
23 Noted name in retailing 
.-:::=============~ 0 
~ 

51"---sure!" (Valley girl comment) 
52 Is afflicted with 53 It's north of Bangladesh 55 Choice from a tough negotiator so Computer 
people 61 Memo letters 62 Ancient 
explorers 63 Cremation sites &4 Admission 65 Southern 
Senator 
DOWN 
1 Kind of school 20ne abroad 3 Left the house 
on tiptoe 4 Cavaliers ride on them 5 Rural affirmatives 6 Bart, Ringo and 18 Barrio residents Brenda 19 Not safe 7 cit. 23 Dog command (footnote abbr.) 
24 Yours, in Paris a Bon mot 
26 Choice from a 9 Pop singer 
cross-examiner Richard 
21 Annoyance10 Big Blue 29 Blabbered

11 20 Questions 30 Show contempt
category 32 Washington
12 Hazard channel
13 Three empresses of 
34 Concentrated the Eastern 3& Loses Roman Empire effectiveness 
~ 
25 Advertising pitch 
27 Step 
2& O.J. judge 
29 Up 
30 Two-time U.S. 
Open tennis champ 31 Froot Loops bird 33 Corot subject 35 Choice from Elvis 39 Tough one 40 Powwow site 42 Certain Peruvian 45 Bring to a boil 47 ----haw 48 Model from Mogadishu 49 Hum soothingly 50 Trader's shout 


37 Some 
collectibles 38 Director's unit 41 Sushi choice 42 Hoist 43 Agreeable 
remark 44Chit 46 Last line of 
defense 
SCOTT ADAMS 
49 Fiddle's partner 50 Enjoy 52 Defendant of 
1949 54 Belted one out 56 Before 57 Catcher's spot 58 Belief 59 Pro 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE 
NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: 
An influential friend will play a 
major role in a business triumph. 
Joining groups, clubs and commit­
tees will give you new professional 
and social clout. A magical 
encounter early in 1996 could lead 
to a much more fulfilling love life. 
Next June brings travel and an 
intriguing business opportunity. 
Look to the future with confidence. 
Awholenewcareerispossible. 
CELEBRITIES HORN ON 
THIS DAY: hockey great Mario 
Lemieux, actress Karen Allen, rock­
er Bob Geldof. actress Glynis Johns. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Put your heart into your work. A ere­ative project will flourish thanks to your efforts. Now is the time to be seen and heard; make a statement. A brief encounter could produce last­ing benefits. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): A proposal needs to be thoroughly investigated before you commit yourself. Do not rely on others' help in getting over any rough spots. Good news about an impending birth brings joy.to your family. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): A financial settlement could ease your mind considerably. An agreement reached now proves well-timed. Say "no" to someone who makes you feel uncomfortable. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Do whatever you can to stretch your hard-earned dollars. Bargains abound if you look carefully. Save time by avoiding crowded shopping areas. At work, good organization is an absolute must. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your integrity could be questioned by someone who does not know you well. Make sure your conduct is above reproach. Meet deadlines on time. Romance with a neighbor is possible. , 

Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
•MENU 
Notre Dame North Szechuan Beef Tangy Chicken Sandwich' Itailan·Blend Vegetables 
Saint Mary's Turkey Patties Tuna Noodle Casserole Mixed Vegetables 
Try not to become unglued if romantic partner blows hot and cold. Your relationship is still on track. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Tend to essential correspon­dence and phone calls before lunch. Your mood may take an entirely dif­ferent tum in the afternoon. Others are eager to join forces with you. Put your best foot forward at meet­ings. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Take a realistic approach to any financial problems. Do not allow extravagance or wishful thinking to undermine domestic harmony or the family budget. A long overdue deci­sian should be announced without fanfare. Be succinct. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Fcb. 18): Talk over practical matters with people whose opinion you respect and value. Their ideas could balance your own in a practical way. Be careful not to mix romance with finance. Pay your own way. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Dealings with authority figures and professional advisors should pro­duce solid financial gains. A socia­ble, perhaps romantic, evening is indicated. Take charge of planning a special celebration. Members of your family will applaud your ere­ativity . 


• OF INTEREST 
Stepan Court Time scheduling meeting will be held today at 4 p.m. in the LaFortune Montgomery Theater. Any group requesting court time must have a l'epresentative at. the meeting. For more information call Student Activities at 631-7308. Urban Plunge information session will be held this evening from 6:30-7 p.m. in the classroom nt the esc. All students are' encouraged to attend and learn about the Plunge, a 48·hour awareness program during Christmas Break which gives students the chance to learn and reflect upon poverty and injustice while earning one academic credit. Registration materials will be available at the meeting. 
Marketing Your Liberal Arts Skills In the In~ tervlew: This workshop will help liberal arts students learn to identify and articulate the valuable skills they have developed from their liberal arts education. Content will focus on strategies for presenting these skills effectively and confidently in terms of employer's requirements. Judy Goebel of Career and Placement Services presents the workshop this evening from 6:30-8:30 p.m. in 119 DeBartolo Hall. HA Comedy Show: Come see au hour of free comedy on tonight at 8 p.m. in Cushing Auditorium. There will be a screening of "HA's RUDY" after the show. Sponsored by the Creative Writing Department, the eve~ng features the Humor Artists. 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-=+=+:+.:+-,..f'!"!" ..::...j.::..;.+:,:.+:,:..+:~ 

,;,.-oil-:'±+=­
~""+~'-! 
South Chicken Strips Turbot Almondine French Green Beans 

SPORTS 
page 20 Thursday, October 5, 1995 
Irish practice on turf in preparation for Huskies 

"We've worked on Astroturf ing line up against the Huskies. all week," Irish head coach On defense, the Irish are not Lou Holtz said. "What I feel as lucky. Backup rush end good about is that we've come John McLaughlin was injured through the second day of full, against the Buckeyes and may hard work on Astroturf with­not be available for another out getting anyone injured. three to four weeks. That always scares you." This forces Joe Thomas to 
The last thing, the Irish could step up as backup to Kory Mi­handle would be more injuries. nor at rush end. This means Wide out Charlie Stafford, tight that two true freshmen will end Leon Wallace, and offen-man the rush end position. 
By MIKE DAY explanation did little to reduce Sports Writer the students' anger. In fact, several off campus women, It's a debate that first sur-including seniors Bridget faced nearly two decades ago. Magenis and Kristen 
Like it or not, it always seems Helenbrook, opted to sit out to come up around this time of their senior season rather than year. However, the partici-compete for Off-Campus. pants in the ·quarrel have been "There's a place for an Off­a little more.------------------, Campus team, vocal about their but it's not the beliefs this time same," said around. Magenis, a for-
The issue is mer P.W. play-Interhall sports. er. "It's not The conflict is the same expe­whether or not rience. You off-campus stu-don't get the dents should be tradition of given the right playing for 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT sive tackle Mike Doughty are Assistant Sports Editor just coming off various leg in­jures. 
Aside from the occasional Doughty, who missed last shower, this week has been Saturday's game against Ohio perfect for fall football prac­State, will return to the start­


tice. Yet don't go looking for the Notre Dame football team on Cartier field. With two games on Astroturf approach­ing, the team has moved prac­tice inside to Loftus. 
This Saturday the Irish travel to Washington to play at the artificial turf laden Husky Sta­dium. So to get players ready for the different turf, they've moved practice inside. 
Midfielder Bill Savarino and the Irish will attempt to improve on the team's disappointing 5-4 record tonight
to compete for your dorm, the 
when they host Detroit Mercy tonight at Alumni Field.
the dorm which fun of playing they previously resided in. with your friends, and the Although the topic extends to enjoyment of working with the 
Irish soccer team hosts Titans 
all Interhall sports for both same coaches." men and women, the most Added Helenbrook, "Even By DYLAN BARMMER to looking to continue their fidence goint into the George­heated complaints of 1995 though we moved off campus Sports Writer winning streak, the Irish are town game, which is a hugehave been filed by women we deserve the choice of also gearing up for a crucial game for us." Interhall football players. whether we should play for Momentum. Big East contest with The Titans bring a 6-4 club Several off campus residents P.W. or Off-Campus. We feel It's a word thrown around Georgetown on Sunday after­into Alumni Field tonight and approached RecSports that since we worked with the somewhat aimlessly in the noon. are led by freshman striker Assistant Director Rich O'Leary dorm for three years, we realm of sports, but don't doubt "We've already lost three Jorge Ferreira. The 5-7, 130 about playing for the dorm deserve the opportunity to play its importance. Championships games in the Big East," said pound forward out of London, teams that they had represent-with our friends and coaches have been won largely on the midfielder/forward Bill Ontario has compiled seven 
ed over the past three years. during our senior year." strength of momentum in sev­Savarino. "We can't afford to goals and six assists for 20 
'"We are· unable to change a Apparently Magenis and eral sports, proving that the lose any more. We have to points in just 10 games for an rule during the season," said Helenbrook are not the only importance of the "big mo" is start to get in a rhythm and average of two points perO'Leary. "This was a decision Interhall players who fe1el this not to be underestimated. gain some momentum to carry game. Notre Dame holds a 11­
that was made a year ago. We way. Both off-campus and This sense of importance us through the second half of 1 game edge over their former 
talked it over with the rectors, dorm players share the belief which is attached to momen­the season." MCC rival and has won six and we decided it was best that that off-campus students tum is not lost on the Notre Tonight's game against the straight games against Detroit. the rule wasn't changed for the should have the option of com­Dame men's soccer team. The Titans will be influential in es­The Titans are 3-2 in their last time being." peting for their former dorm 
Irish stand at 5-4 heading into tablishing that rhythm. five games, including two 
To their dismay, their team. There seems to be a tonight's game with Detroit "Detroit will give us a good straight losses coming into this request was denied. O'Leary consensus among the players Mercy and are riding a two game," commented forward game.and RecSports based the deci-that the right to choose is game winning streak which Ben Bocklage. "If we have a As for the Irish, things have sion on the rule that has been comes on the heels of a four good game against Detroit, I taken an upward turn since 
in place for years, but the see DEBATE I page 18 game losing streak. In addition think we will have a lot of con­
• 

Football 
at Washington October 7, 2:30 EST 
Volleyball 
vs. West Virginia October 6, 7 p.m. vs. Duke October 7, 7 p.m. 
Men's Soccer 
vs. Detroit October 5, 7:30p.m. 
Though, should anything happen to Minor, the Irish will move drop linebacker Bert Berry to rush end and line up Bill Wagasy at drop linebacker. 
Another freshman that could have made an impact on the Irish defense is running back Autry Denson. During fall practices Denson practiced with the cornerbacks, and ac­cording to defensive coordina­tor Bob Davie could have been a key contributor by now. 
"Yeah, I'd like to have Autry Denson at corner," Davie said. ''Autry Denson has the ability to be a starting cornerback right now. He may have played 75 plays against Ohio State because he is the most talented guy. But let's face it, when you find a great running back, he is going to be on offense." 
Denson should have a greater opportunity to display his talents this weekend. By 
see IRISH/ page 16 


see SOCCER/ page 18 

Women's Soccer • Major League Baseball results. 
vs. Connecticut October 6, 7:30 p.m. see pages 13-15 
Cross Country Notre Dame Invitational 
• Interhall Football Previews. October 6, T.B.A. see pages 16-18 
SMC Sports • Smith signs with Golden State. 
Soccer vs. Kalamazoo October 5, 3:30p.m. 
see page 15 


~---------------------­
IRISH ON THE OffENSIVEII 
tl • 
Washington hopes Notre Dame drops ball 

By MIKE NORBUT Sports Editor 
Notre Dame has had its prob­lems getting a handle on the football. And in turn, it's cost the team to lose grip on the two games it lost this year. 
Washington should be happy. They have a tendency to find the loose ball on the ground. 
The Huskies have recovered seven fumbles in four games this year. The Irish have only lost five fumbles.-But they've dropped 15 of them. 
It was bound to happen that Ron Powlus would lose a snap that he dropped. 
Unfortunately for Notre Dame, it came at the most inop­portune time against Ohio State. 
.Powlus. ttas been practicing diligently this week, taking hundreds of snaps outside of the normal scrimmage time in hopes of getting the feel of the football. But that doesn't help him get a feel of his own mind. 

"Confidence is not something you can just talk about," defen­sive coordinator Bob Davie said. "Confidence is something you get by playing well." 
Powlus has confidence. So does the rest of the offense. 
Randy Kinder averages 118.4 yards a game. Marc Edwards averages 40. 
For the Huskies to not be dominated, they'll have to swarm. Kinder won't go down with an arm tackle. Edwards won't go down with four tack­lers on his back. 
Huskies safety Lawyer Milloy could be busy in the secondary, not only looking out for Derrick Mayes, but also avoiding block­ers and chasing down running backs. 
Milloy is the leading tackler on the Washington squad. 
That's not good for a defense. His linebackers, Ink Aleaga and Jerry Jensen, have interesting names. 
But to be a linebacker on a defense and not have the most tackles says something wrong about you or good about your line. 
In Washington's case, they tend to be a little weak up the middle. 
Nose guard David Richie has less tackles than both Husky cornerbacks, Reggie Resar and Scott Greenlaw. 
So all the Irish really have to worry about is blocking at the point of attack. If defensive backs are making tackles, you're moving the ball. 
"I think we are going to re­spond well at Washington," Davie said. 
If they can catch the ball and 
The Observer/Kevin Klau 

run through holes, they should The Irish will need the Powlus to Mayes connection to overcome the be fine. Husky defense. 
HUSKIES ON THE OFFENSIVE ••• 
Notre Dame needs to negate big plays 
By MIKE NORBUT Sports Editor 
A big play is the always the nemesis of any defense. Notre Dame's is trying not to accept this as fact. 
"Right now, the biggest problem we have is just giv­ing up big plays, not even really in man-to-man or in risky situations," Irish defensive coordinator Bob Davie said. 
"It's just giving up big plays and we have just got to get better. 
Ohio State had four plays of over 50 yards against the Irish last Saturday. 
"I think any time you play young players, that is even more of a factor and more of a dilemma," Davie said. "You have academics along with our schedule of ten straight games, including three on the road." 
The Huskies will come into Saturday's contest with a line that averages about 300 pounds, a senior quarter­back and a tailback that conjures up memories of Napoleon Kaufman. 
Washington Receivers 
Damon Huard enters the game completing 61 per­cent of his passes, and he's had only four touchdown passes this season. 
Ohio State's Bobby Hoying had four last week against Notre Dame. 
Looking big plays? Look for Andre deSaussure. The Husky sophomore averages 26.9 yards a catch and has scored a touchdown. 
But while these numbers are not anything special, they easily could be if Notre Dame's defense continues their recent trend. 
Injuries to Jarvis Edison and Ivory Covington have severely limited what Davie can do defensively. While Covington is nearly healthy, Edison will be out for another couple of weeks. 
"It hasn't been being in man-to-man coverage and just getting guys isolated," Davie said. "It has just been a combination of things and it is things that I really do think we can correct." 
They better hope they can do it before Washington gets to them. 

VS. By Mike Norbut 
Notre Dame Secondary 
I
t's said that the Irish sec­ondary lacks confidence. Maybe they just lack a swift kick in the pants. 
Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz tried to do it last week, but to no avail. 
Cornerback Allen Rossum slipped trying to cover Buster Tillman last week at Ohio State. 
Ohio State's Terry Glenn did the same thing in the third quarter, this time scoring on an 82-yarder. 
Washington likes to use several different formations, all of which use three-and four-receiver align­ments, which could throw off the Irish defensive backs. 
With a pass rush, the secondary could hold their own. But if they 
The play turned into 51-yard have to chase Fred Coleman, 
reception, which led to the Andre deSaussure and friends 
Photo courtesy of Washington Sports Information 
Buckeyes' first score of the game. around, they could get a kick in The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Washington flanker Andre deSaussure. Irish defensive back LaRon Moore. 
the pants they don't really want. 


~--------------~----------------------------------------------------------~-----------------------------------------------­
page 3 

I 
••• DAMON HUARD 

Photo· courtesy of Washington Sports Information 
U
nspetacular. yet effective. Experienced, yet prone to mistakes. Not the most talented. but capable of making the big play. 
Sounds a lot like Ohio State quarterback Bobby Hoying, doesn't it? Or is it Damon Huard, signal­caller for the Washington lluskies? 
Actually, it describes both, but all the Irish now care about is Huard. 
Huard

They know what Hoying can do. The queation now .becomes. can Huard do 
it as well. 
Huard, a senior, enters tommorow's con­test against the Irish with 23 career starts under his belt and is beginning to get a true feel for the Husky offense. 
"Damon has been 
through two transition 
that hope of domination 
but  has  been  solid  
nonetheless.  
The  6-foot-4,  215­ 

pound Huard has com­pleted over 60% of his tosses and has averaged just under 200 yards per game through the first four UW contests. 
At that size, it is unlikely that the Puyallup, Wash. native will beat the Irish on the ground, although 
is currently the Huskies' third ing rusher. However, 
Huard's big weapon could be the bomb. to which the Irish secondary has been quite susceptible. 
In particular. Notre Dame needs to be wary of Huard connecting with speedy freshman Andre DeSaussure. He has already hauled in seven grabs for an aver­age of 27 yards per catch, including a 49­yard touchdown strike. 
If Huard is afforded time in the pocket, his size will allow him to just sit back and throw over the Irish much like Hoying was able to do last week. 
But put some pres­sure on him, and he could be in a horde of trouble. 
-·TIM SHERMAN 
The Observer • IRISH EXTRA Friday,October 6, 1995 
The Breakdown I 
A position by pOsition.look · 
at who holds the advantage 
~~ Quarterbacb D 
Damon Huard is an experienced quarterback, but 
he can make mistakes. As long as Ron Powlus can 
hold OntO the football, he vvins this rilatchup. 
~~RunningBacksD 
The Huskies have a capable tandem in Leon Neal and Richard Thomas, but neither compares to Randy Kinder or Marc Edwards. 
Receivers 
Washington likes to throw, and they have capable targets in Dave Janoski and Fred Coleman. Derrick Mayes performs even when triple-teamed. 
D Offensive Linen 
The Husky line sports two guards over 300 pounds. The Irish line has performed well, but they're outmatched in the experience department.. 
D Defensive Line!a 
Washington's line is not the biggest, but they have the experience and the desire. No one ever knows· which Irish line will come to play. 
~~ Linebackers D 
This unit is still the backbone of the Irish defense. The Huskies do have some interesting names (Ink Aleaga, Ikaika Malloe), but that's about it. 
D Secondary ·..n····.·.·.·· 
. ' . ' . 
.... . 
Even ifNotre Dame's defensive backs got some 
confidence, they still probably would11't be better. 
than Washington and Lawyer Milloy..·.. , 
~~ SpecWI Teams :D 
Notre Dame's units have made or broken their last two games. If Emmett Mosley catches the punts, he could go all the way. Ifhe doesn't ... uh-oh.
D ~!1ll
coaching 
-~ .. ':" ': 
Photo courtesy of Washington Sports Information 
I
n what has turned out to be one of the biggest weeks in the history of the American legal system, it is only fitting that a Lawyer will have one last chance to strut his stuff on Saturday. 
Nope, we're not talk­ing about Marcia, Johnnie, or 
Washington vs. Notre Dame. 
Although there has been all kinds of specu­lation leading up to the trial, it appears as if split end Derrick Mayes will be his first witness. 
At least one of Milloy's eyes is bound to always be focused on Mayes. 
Milloy, who fills out the roster with numbers petitor with a burning desire. He conveys that very well to his team­mates and he's such a dominant player you want him on the field all the time. He goes full speed all the time." 
That's not the type of news people like Mayes and Randy Kinder real­ly want to be hearing. 
his prowess on the grid-iron. Milloy is also a centerfielder for the baseball squad and has been drafted by major league clubs twice. 
Still, football is his forte. 
A near unanimous pre-season At-American selection, Milloy has gotten ofT to a slow start ir one looks at just 

years with two different position coaches," Washington coach Jim Lambright said. 
"lie's had two consis­tent years of progress and needs to continue there and take a domi­ant role with the offense." 
Thus far, Huard has not quite lived up to 
There have been plenty of distractions this week, with Lou Holtz's health not being great. Jim 
.IUmbri~T =::in~ 'rflj 
Another dose call, but the Huskies get it, again, because of the home field. -:Mike Norbut 
like 6-foot-2, 200­pounds, is one of the nation's top safeties as a junior. 
"Lawyer's a heck of a player who great instinctive decisions and then runs straight to the ball," Husky coach Jim Iambright appraised. "He's a great hitter and com-turnovers Uust one interception and a forced fumble). but if you take his entire presence into account, one can understand all his hype. 
Hype. 
What a unique con­cept for a Lawyer. Case closed. 
-TIM SHERMAN 
even F. Lee. 
Lawyer Milloy, the free safety of the Huskies. will be the main prosecutor in the State (University) of 

Milloy, a Tacoma native, has made 39 tackles in his last three games and is sure to be just as high to face the Irish. 
In addition to 
-·---~-------­

Friday, October 6, 1995 

Pos. Ht_  WI.  JIM LAMBRIGHT  Sept. 2  TE W, 23-20  
Rashaan Shehee  RB 5-11  200  so  Sept. 16  L, 30-20  
Jermaine Smith Jermaine Jackson Andre deSaussure Kyle Roberts Jason Harris Reggie Reser Reggie Davis Grad Quesada Marques Hairston Terry Hollimon Damon Huard Tony Parrish Robert Parrish Jovan McCoy  CB 5-11 SNG 6·1 WR 6-2 LB 5-11 RB 6-Q CB 5-10 LB 6-2 WR 6-Q s 6-2 RB 5-9 QB 6-4 LB 5-11 c 7-Q CB 5-9  175 160 200 185 210 185 215 185 210 200 215 205 240 180  FR so FR so FR SR FR SR FR so SR so SR so  Third season at Washington Career Record: 17-9 Against Opponent: 0-0 Highlights: Assistant at Washington for 24 years previously. Led the Huskies to a victory over Miami in the Orange Bowl last season to break the Hurricanes' 58­ Sept. 23 Sept. 30 Oct. 7 Oct. 14 Oct. 21 Oct. 28 Nov. 4 Nov. 11  at  W, 21;13 W, 26~16  
Lawyer Milloy Any Lawyer 10 Scott Greenlaw  s 6-2 CRK 5-9 CB 6-Q  205 270 195  JR JR SR  game home winning streak.  Nov. 18  
11 Cam Kissel  TE 6-2  230  JR  
12 Leon Neal  RB 5-9  185  SR  
13 Ted Stark  s 6-4  210  JR  
14 Jesse Binkley  LB 6-3  230  JR  
14 Geoff Prince  p 5-10  185  JR  
14 Fresh Prince  RAP 6-2  170  FR  
15 Shane Fortney  QB 6-3  220  so  
16 Brock Huard  QB 6-5  220  FR  
17 Lester Towns  LB 6-3  240  FR  
1 8 Josh Wales  K 5-9  190  JR  
19 Dave Janoski  SE 5-10  160  JR  
20 lkaika Malloe 21 Chad Wolfe  LB 5-11 s 6-3  200 195  JR FR  HUSKY  
22 Fred Coleman  WR 6-1  180  so  STADIUM  
22 Brendan Jones  s 5-11  185  FR  
24 Jerome Pathon  WR 5-11  170  so  
25 Mel Miller 25 Mel Torma 26 Velvet Fog 26 Ryan Rodman 27 Dennis Rodman 28 T obiase Brooks 29 Ted Dibiase 29 Virgil 30 Richard Thomas 32 Ty Fotheringill 35 Chris Campbell  CB 5-11 voc 5-6 voc 5-6 p 5·9 F 6-7 CB 5-10 WWF 6-Q LO 6-0 RB 5-9 CB 5-10 LB 6-2  170 330 330 170 220 180 240 220 220 180 225  FR SR SR JR JR JR SR SR SR FR so  Opened in 1920 Capacity: 72,500 Largest Crowd: 7 4,038 Surface: Artificial Turf UW at home: 297-124-20  
36 Mike Reed  RB 6-Q  205  so  
38 Joe Bloomquist  LB 6-1  205  JR  
40 Jerry Jensen  LB 6-2  225  so  
42 Jeff Johnson  LB 6-2  218  FR  
43 Deke Devers  DE 6-Q  245  SR  
45 Tom Matijaclc  LB 6-Q  225  FR  
46 Jason Cho"rak  DE 6-4  250  so  
48 Randy Jones  K 6-2  205  FR  
49 Chad Wright  LB 6-3  230  FR  
54 Ink Aleaga  LB 6-2  225  JR  
54 Patrick Kesi  OG 6·3  315  SR  
55 Kurth Connell 55 Petrocelli Kesl 56 Chris Petrucelli  DL 6-5 c 6-4 COA 6-Q  270 305 180  FR so JR  CORNERBACK 22-Wooden 14-Covlngton  
56 Darius Jones  DE 6-3  240  so  
57 John Fiala  LB 6-3  225  JR  
57 Lynn Johnson  c 6-3  285  JR  
58 Lyndon Johnson  PREZ 5-10  170  SR  
62 Ryan Bradley  OG 6-4  265  so  
63 Dave Bradley  MD 6-Q  140  SR  
63 Opu Seminavage  c 6·5  315  SR  
66 Chris Lang  DE 6-6  250  FR  
67 Tony Coats  OT 6-7  300  FR  
67 Sekou Wiggs  NT 6-4  270  so  
70 Eric Battle  OT 6-3  290  SR  
70 Of Bull Run  WAR 5-Q  200  SR'  
70 Ben Kadeltz  NT 6-2  275  FR  
72 Bob Sapp 72 Warran Sapp 73 Matt Hicks  OT 6-5 POT 6·5 OT 6·6  285 290 315  JR DG SR  FREE SAFfTY 9-Moore 26·Monahan  
75 Aaron Dalen  OT 6-7  300  FR  
76 Benji Olson  OG 6-4  300  FR  
76 Benji the Dog  DOG 1-4  45  SR  
n Olin Kreutz  OL 6-4  290  FR  
78 Mostafa Sobhi  OG 6-5  285  so  
78 King Mufasa  LION 6-2  350  SR  
78 Sayltagain  KING 6·2  350  SR  
78 Mufasamufasa  JNGL 6-2  350  SR  
78 Mac Tuiaea  DL 6-6  275  FR  
79 Trevor Highfield  OG 6-4  285  SR  
80 Gerald Harris  WR 6-1  175  FR  
81 Anthony Mizin  TE 6-4  243  FR  
82 Ernie Conwell  TE 6·3  240  SR  
64 Jeremy-Brigham  TE 6-6  245  so  
85 Cameron Cleeland  TE 6-4  265  so  
66 Michael Patterson  DL 6-4  290  FR  
87 Keith Murphy  SE 5-11  185  JR  
88 Tyson Elmendorf  WR 6-Q  190  SR  
88 Mike Ewaliko  NT 6-4  260  SR  
93 Steve Morrison  TE­6-3  205  SR  
95 Van Morrison  SNG 5-11  175  SR  
96 Jim Morrison  OD 5-10  180  JR  
99 Josh Smith  DE 6-4  245  FR  


FIGHTING IRISH 
• • •  
1  2  3  4  Tot  PASSING  Camp  All  Pet  Yds  TD  lnt  Lg  FIELD GOALS  Tot  
17  69  32  54  172  Powlus  76  123  61.8  1143  6  4  56  Kopka  6-9  
21  26  31  39  117  
RECEIVING  Rec  Yds  Avg  TD  Lg  PUNTING  No  Avg  Bk  Lg  
ND  Dpp  Mayes  29  506  17.4  2  56  H. Smith  16  38.9  0  56  
First downs  123  94  Edwards  16  220  13.8  1  30  Palumbo  1  16.0  0  16  
Total yards  2324  1872  Mosley  9  156  17.3  1  51  
Total yards per game  464.8  374.4  Kinder  7  71  10.1  1  30  KICKOFF RETURNS  No  Avg  TO  Lg  
T otai offensive plays  380  333  Chryplewlcz  6  83  13.8  0  28  Mosley  8  26.5  0  48  
Avg. yards per play  6.1  5.8  Wallace  4  52  13.0  0  35  Farmer  2  21.0  0  26  
, ' '  Rushing yards  1181  858  Farmer  2  23  11.5  0  17  Stafford  2  12.5  0  18  
Rushing yards per game Rushing plays  236 257  172 197  Denson Sollmann  2 1  17 15  8.5 15.0  0 f  9 15  PUNT RETURNS  No  Avg  TO  Lg  
· P888ing yards  1143  1014  Mosley  3  25.7  1  64  
Passing yards per game  229  203  ALL-PURPOSE  Rush  Rec  Ret  Tot  Avg  Sollmann  7  6.1  0  24  
Passes completed  76  69  Kinder  592  71  5  668  133.6  
Passes attempted  123  136  Mayes  5  506  0  511  102.2  INTERCEPTIONS  No  
..  Passes intercepted  4  7  Mosley  6  156  289  451  90.2  Wooden  3  
· · Fumbles/ Fumbles lost  15/5  8/6  Edwards  204  220  0  424  84.8  Magee, Monahan, Moore, Rossum  1  
Penallies-Penaily yards  23-199  25-210  Farmer  148  23  42  213  71.0  
Third down converBions  31-89  27-71  DEFENSE  T  A  FC  - 
Percentage  45  38  SCORING  TD  1XP  Pta  Cobbins  0  
Fourth down conversions  5-10  5-7  Kinder  8  0-0  48  Grasmanis  0  
Kopka  0  18-19  36  Berry  0  
Ydi/Gm  No  Yds  Lg  Edwards  5  0-0  32  Tatum  0  
118.4  100  592  52  Mayes  2  0-0  12  Moore  0  
49.3  33  148  22  Mosley  2  0-0  12  Magee  
40.8  45  204  27  Rossum  1  0-0  8  Bennett  
34.0  32  170  19  Denson  1  0-0  6  Wynn  
11.3  2  34  30  Edison  1  0-0  6  Wooden  
6.4  9  37  1  0-0  6  
-4.8  27  -24  1  6  
• • •  
LOU HOLTZ  Poa.  Ht.  Wt.  
Derrick Mayes  WA  6-1  204  SR  
Kinnon Tatum  LB  6-0  216  JR  
Tenth season at Notre Dame. Career Record: 202-92-7 Against Washington: 0-0  9  Ron Powius Kory Minor Emmatt Mosley Lyron Cobbins Jarious Jackson LaRon Moore  QB 6-2 LB · 6-2 WR 5-9 LB 6-0 QB 6-2 s 5-9  217 225 180 241 215 190  JR FR JR JR FR SR  
Highlights: Reached 200-win milestone against Purdue. Guided the Irish to a National Championship in 1988 and runner-up finishes in 1989 and 1993.  10 Mike Perona 11 Tom Krug 12 Scott Cengia 12 Marlo Strayhorn 13 Bert Berry 13 John Bishop 14 Ivory Covington 15 Alien Rossum  QB QB K DB LB CB CB CB  6-1 6-4 5-9 6-2 6-3 5-11 5-9 5-7  190 206 179 205 230 170 161 178  JR JR so FR JR JR so so  - 
18 Jerry Maloney  K  5-11  174  JR  
17 Brian Magee  s  5-10  204  SR  
17 Mark McKenna  QB  5-11  182  JR  
1 8 Cikal Champion  WR  5-10  191  JR  
19 Marcus Thome  RB  6-0  224  SA  
20 Kevin Kopka  K  5-8  175  FR  
21 Shannon Stephens  RB  5-10  175  FR ,  
I  I  I  22 Shewn Wooden  CB  5-11  188  SR  
23 Bill Gibbs  s  5-10  179  JR .  
BOB DAVIE  DAVE ROBERTS  23 Autry Denson 24 Ty Goode  RB CB  5-10 5-11  175 183  FR so  
25 Randy Kinder  RB  6-1  206  JR  
26 Mark Monohan  CB  5-11  164  SR  
The 40 year-old defen­sive coordinator acted  The current Irish offensive coordinator  26 Chris McCarthy 27 Bobbie Howard 28 Ken Barry 29 Roni Enisle  K LB RB DB  5-11 5-11 6-0 6-0  194 210 214 180  so, FR so JR  
as interim head coach  will assume total  29 A'Janl Sanders 30 JaNis Edison  DB s  5-11 6-4  175 213  FR so  
during Holtz's absence. Davie, in his  control of the offense until Holtz returns.  31 Robert Farmer 32 Clement Stokes 33 John Mclaughlin 34 Jamie Spencer  RB RB LB RB  5-10 6-0 6-4 6-1  206 203 222 245  JR so so FR  
second year at ND, was the architect of  A creative offensive mind, Roberts also  35 Scott Palumbo 35 Robert Phelps 36 ChirB Wachtel 37 Jeff Kramer  p CB p LB  5-11 6-0 5-11 6-2  187 185 211 218  SR JR JR so  
Texas A&M's famous  excels in recruiting.  38 Slm Stokes 39 Benny Guilbeaux  CB DB  8-0 6-4  185 210  JR FR  
"Wrecking Crew"  He coached NE La.  40 Kevin Camstta 41 Joe Babey  TE LB  6-1 6-1  230 227  SR so  
defense.  until1993.  42 Mike Frascogna 43 Bill Wagasy  WR LB  5-8 6-3  164 224  SR SR  
44 Marc Edwards  RB  6-0  227  JR  
45 Hunter Smith  p  6-3  195  FR  
46 James Jackson  RB  5-10  205  FR  
47 Bill Mltoulas  LB  6-1  217  so  
48 Renaldo Wynn  DE  6-3  260  SR  
SPLIT END  49 Joe Thomas  LB  6-3  205  FR  
1-MIYII  52 Alex Mueller  OL  6-8  260  FR  
83·Sollmann  53 Lamont Bryant  DE  6-4  235  FR  
54 Luke Petngout  OG  6-8  282  so  
55 Shehan Jordan  LB  6-4  230  FR  
56 Kurt Belisle  LB  6-2  220  so  
57 Rick Kaczenskl  c  6-4  263  JR  
56 Mike Burgdorf  TE  6-0  205  JR  
59 Matthew Kunz  s  6-0  209  so  
60 Sean Rogers  OT  5-10  280  JR  
62 Mike McCullough  NG  6-2  298  SR  
FULLBACK  65 Matt Griesbach  OG  6-0  263  so  
44·Edwards  68 Jeff Kilburg  OG  6-4  276  JR  
,.Th~  67 John Wagner 69 David Quist 70 Tim Ridder  OL NG OL  6-8 6-8 6-7  300 261 280  FR SR FR  
71 Jerry Wisne  OL  6-7  282  FR  
72 Ryan Leahy  OG  6-4  288  SR  
73 Mike Doughty  OT  6-7  291  JR  
75 Chris Clevenger  OT  6-8  285  JR  
76 Jeremy Akers  OG  8-5  288  SR  
RIGHT GUARD 72·Laahy 54-Petngout  77 Dusty Zeigler 78 Jon Spickelmier 79 Mike Rosenthal  c c OL  6-8 6-2 6-7  292 265 290  SR so FR  
80 Malcolm Johnson  WR  6-4  206  so  
RIGHT TACKLE 73-0oughty 79-Rossnthal  81 Chartes Stafford 82 Bobby Brown 83 Scott Sollmann  WR WR WR  5-9 8-3 5-8  187 175 160  SR FR JR  
64 Dan McConnell  WR  5-8  181  SR  
86 Antwon Jones  DL  6-4  237  FR  
87 Jimmy Friday  LB  6-3  230  FR  
68 Leon Wallace  TE  6-3  285  SR  
89 Mike Denvir  TE  8-3  231  JR  
89 John Cerasanl  TE  6-4  245  FR  
90 Ben Foot  DE  8-4  250  SA  
91 Darnell Smith  DE  6-5  277  JR  
93 Paul Grasmanls  NG  8-2  279  SR  
94 Justin Orr  WR  6-0  190  JR  
FLANKER 5-Moalay 11-SIIHord  SLB 48-Chorak 45-Malijacio  CORNERBACK  95 Corey Bannan 97 Corey Redder 98 Pete Chryplewlcz 99 Cliff Stroud  DE LB TE DE  6-1 6-1 6-5 6-3  228 220 257 285  so so so SR  
4·RIIIf  
18-Lacson  

------------------------~--------~---·----------------­
Friday, October 6, 1995 

-
-
Minor 
continued.from page 1 

"I didn't feel I could make it out here without her." 
Minor eventually decided to go it alone, and based on early results, it's fairly evident that mom's little boy has found success in college. 
Still, this weekend's showdown with No. 15 Washington will serve as a home­coming of sorts for Minor, whose family and friends will be attending the game. 
But it's seeing mom that is paramount on Minor's mind. 
"I'm looking forward to doing a little bit of showing off for her," he said. "She hasn't seen me play in a while, so you'll see a different Kory this weekend." 
F 
or Irish fans, a different Kory is an unnecessary adjustment. They will be happy with the same old Kory that has been dominat­
ing for the Irish in recent weeks. When talking with or about Kory Minor, his past invariably comes up. 
Certainly he is quick to cite the influ­mace of his mother, and just as quick to credit his high school, football power­house Bishop Amat. 
"While the speed of the game is much faster here, I think that my high school matured me and pushed me to succeed at this level," he said. 
It is the present day Minor, however, that has drawn rave reviews, even from the harshest critics. 
"There are a lot of things that Kory Minor could be doing better as a football player," stated defensive coordinator Bob Davie. "But when you consider that he's a freshman, the level that he's play­ing at is remarkable." 
Although overloaded with accolades in his final year of high school, the track record of Notre Dame freshmen pointed conventional wisdom to the conclusion that he would see spot action in his first year with the Irish. 
However, a lack of depth along the defensive front combined with Minor's prowess has thrust him into the Irish 
spotlight, and he has responded without blinking. 
Having started every game but one this season, Minor has recorded 17 tack­les and is tied for the team lead in sacks with three. 
It is his fearsome presence from the rush end slot that has raised eyebrows. "I like to rush from the passer, to come in from the edge," he said. 
"Hopefully this week will be my com­ing out game, where I can come at the passer clean," he added, his eyes widen­ing at the thought. 
One could make a case that Minor's grand entrance onto the college scene actually occurred two weeks ago against Texas, where, at least from the perspec­tive of the Longhorn backfield, he seemed to be omnipresent on the field. 
A series of plays in the middle of the game displayed the complete package that had Irish coaches itching to find him a spot in the lineup. 
Over the span of twenty game minutes, Minor made a one-armed tackle for a loss while being blocked, foiled a screen pass that led to an Irish interception, strung out a sweep and then chased the running back down from behind for a loss, and made a sack. 
He is strength, speed, and smarts per­sonified. 
"Kory has a good sense of the game," noted Davie. "That is not something you can coach, though you'd like to take credit for it." 
D
espite his auspicious debut, though, there are times when the freshman comes out in Kory Minor. 
"During the warm-ups (of the Ohio State game), I looked up and saw all the fans," he said. "I realized that now if you made a mistake, everyone could see 
it... 

While Minor has made few mistakes, his competitive drive compels him to work even harder to eradicate the ones he has made. 
Against Purdue, a late hit on the quar­terback perpetuated a Boilermaker touchdown drive that could have cost Notre Dame the game. It took him a 
-----------~--­


while to forget. 
"I wanted to go crazy out there on the field, to do whatever I could to make it up," he recalled. "I took it real bad be­cause I knew that I almost let the team down. It wasn't until coach Holtz called me in my room and told me to forget about it that I felt better." 
Minor also accepts responsibility for the struggles of the secondary. Normally affable to a fault, the 6'2", 225-pound linebacker assumes a look of StArn r.on.;tprnHtion wh<>n th<> c11hl<>Pt 
comes up. 
"We didn't get to the passer enough against Ohio State," he explains. "I blame myself as much as anyone. I've vowed never to let my corners hang out to dry again." 
Minor has delivered on his promise up to now. 
Expect the Husky offensive line to bear the brunt of the freshman phenom's new pledge come Saturday. 
And look for Mrs. Minor to be 


LAFORTUNE BALLROOM TO WATCH THE GAME. 
Brought to you by YOUR Sophomore Class Council. EMAIL US AT: Class.of.1998@nd.ectu CALL US AT: 1-5225 VISIT US AT: 213 Lafortune, Mon & Thurs, 2-4pm 
' ' ' ' ' ' 

--------------------------------------------~------' 
-------~~-----~-------­

The Observer/Kevin Kiau Ryan Leahy (above) continues the family tradition of playing on the Irish line. His grandfather,Frank Leahy (below), played tackle for Rockne and coached the Irish to five National Championships. 
her of seniors Lou Holtz counts was a part of the Irish for four ing with friends, just on to guide the team (there are years, it's pretty tough not to being back in a familiar no permanent captains this sea­bleed anything but blue and 
son), Leahy is the embodiment gold.
S
eeing your family, visit­
environment. .Returning home from college of experience imd maturity. "There's been Leahys coming is always something to look for­"I just try and go out and lead here since 1927," Leahy said. by example," the 6-foot-5, 289 Frank Leahy, Ryan's grandfa­
ward to. Ryan Leahy has been pound right guard said. "Sure, ther, was a tackle for the last
looking forward to Saturday now for five years. sometimes it means talking to three teams of fellow legend the younger guys but for the Knute Rockne. 
"I remember going to the Seattle Alumni Club send-off most part, I just let my actions With the knowledge gained picnic before my freshman year do the talking." from playing for Rockne and a Take, for example, his action stern dedication to detail,
and people were already talk­of bulldozing a path for Randy Leahy evolved into one of the 
ing about this game," Leahy said. "People weren't quite Kinder to sprint 30 yards un­most successful coaches college sure when it was but I knew touched on a screen pass football has ever seen. there was a chance I could play against Purdue. Frank passed his determina­Or how about his more unno­tion down to son Jim, who was
back home for Notre Dame. It should be fun." ticed actions such as giving Ron a member of the Irish scout Powlus the necessary protec­teams for four years in the 60's 
The fifth-year senior from tion or getting a crucial push under Ara Parseghian and even
Yakima, Wash. will take the field at Husky Stadium in front for Marc Edwards to pick up a lettered in 1968. key first down on a third-and­"My dad was even worse than
of a multitude of home-folks. one. Rudy in that he played four
Not only is he concerned about putting on a good show, The average fan may not no­years on the scout team. Rudy he's been worrying about get­tice the play of Leahy, but, only played two." ting everyone into the show. much like it is with an referee, But like 'Rudy', Jim Leahy got "I need a ton of tickets," that may be good. Too often, his moment of glory against 
Leahy explained. "There are a people just take notice when a Georgia Tech. It was short­whole bunch of Leahys out mistake is made. lived. there, my mom's family is from For an offensive lineman to "My dad played something 
go unnoticed means he is doing like the last 3:45 of his last
Oregon and that's not too far. his job. game," Leahy said. 
Hopefully, my teammates will hook me up with some tickets." It's a job he has been prepar­Ryan Leahy made sure he ing for for nearly his whole life. wasn't going to have to worry
If there is someone on the about riding the bench. 
team to hook up, Leahy's the 
W 
is great." frains from it is Irish offensiveguy. en your grandfa­Leahy sees something special line coach Joe Moore. 
On the field and ofT, Leahy is, her was one of the Ever since his sopho­in the current crop of freshman "Coach Moore is from whatq uile simply, a team leader. ruly legendary fig­more year of eligibility, offensive linemen. you call the old-school," LeahyOfficially a captain last season res of Notre Leahy has been a main­"Those guys are going to be stated.
and this season one of a num-Dame footbalt and your father stay at right guard. 
great," Leahy predicted. "He's so tough and de­"They're big and talented and manding and the loudest one on they're great guys. They're the practice field but you have always hanging out together to love him. And he just loves and are forming a good bond coaching the Notre Dame offen­already." sive line. 
One thing they may still have "He's gotten plenty of job to do though is overcome their otTers, both pro and college. But apparent fear of Leahy. he just wants to be here." 
"Nearly everyone on the team Getting offers from the pros calls me Bubba," Leahy noted. has the be something running "But some of the freshmen are around in the back of Leahy's hesitant to use it." mind right now. 
Like many nicknames, "That's definitely what I want "Bubba's" derivation stretches to do but I'm not going to worry back quite far. about it now. We'll see what­
"I think it started in fourth ever is in store." grade," he said. "There were Hight now, Leahy is just con­four of us who were really fat cerned with making his last -­and little league killed us. I just season at Notre Dame count. never got skinny and the nick­"All I've ever wanted to do name stuck. was play football for Notre 
"All through high school it Dame," he said. stuck and then, on my recruit­"I just want to go out the last ing visit to Notre Dame, my couple of times, play for my older brother (a star pitcher for teammates and raise that gold the Irish) introduced me to ev­helmet." eryone as Bubba, so people Saturday, it will be raised here started to use it. " proudly in front of everyone 
One person who probably re-back home. 



Friday, October 6, 1995 The Observer •IRISH EXTRA page 8 
•Joc&Stw 

Does anyone want to go bowling? 
W
o could :::---, only half the time. 
a v e But this state isn't ossibly completely hopeless. 
p r e -There are two ways dieted this. that the Irish can 
With Ohio State, make it to either the Southern Cal and Sugar or the Orange Texas on their ldll!ll!l!llll-......_lllilj Bowl. Both are worth schedule, there was $8 million to the no way anyone could Sports Editor school. 
have thought the Washington game would be the most critical of the season for the Irish. 
Originally, people figured it 
would be fun to travel out to 
Seattle, don the grunge for a 
weekend and sing Pearl Jam 
at the top of their lungs. 
But now, this is a serious 
game against a serious team 
and in a seriously hostile sta­
dium. 
The Huskies have won 32 of 
their last 34 games at home. .Washington fans are about as 
crazy as they come. 
MWe get everyone's best game, hands down," receiver Derrick Mayes said after Notre Dame's 55-27 win over Texas. "Teams base their sue­cess on whether or not they beat us." 
For all practical purposes, 
Ohio State's season is com­
plete, though a National 
Championship would be icing 
on the cake. Heaven knows 
Northwestern's next 30 sea­
sons don't matter now. 
But that's the state this 
team is in. The Irish get an 
opponent's best effort and win 


OPEN FOR LUNCH! 
Notre Dame Store Hours 
Mon-Th llam-lam 
Fri-Sat llam-3am 
Sun 
Noon-lam 

.... 
r -----, r -7f8rtyPaCk ­
I Large I I 4 Large I 1Topping Pizza I I 1Topping Pizzas 
If they finish in the Top ten ... okay, we won't get into that one. 
But if they win at least eight games and finish above the champion of a conference participating in the bowl coalition, they could sneak in the side door. 
Granted, not too many top teams in any conference are going to have three losses, but the Big East is a possibility. Miami is a flat-out poor foot­ball team this year. And Boston College is average at best. The two-year Eagle debacle should not happen again. It can't. We can only hope Virginia Tech isn't that good. 
Notre Dame has Washington and USC left on its schedule. Three armed forces and one Boston College equals four wins. 
If the Irish win one of those two hard ones (i.e., this week­end at Washington) and hope that the Hurricanes keep shooting themselves in the foot, they could end up in the Sugar Bowl. 
New Year's in New Orleans. Wouldn't life be great? 

TOP 
25 
TEAM RECORD 
1. Florida St. (37) 4-0·0 2. Nebraska (17) 5·0·0 3. Florida (2) 4-0·0 4. Colorado(6) 5·0·0 
5. Southern Cal 4·0·0 
· 6. Ohio St. 4·0·0 
Ni 7. Michigan 5·0·0 
·· . 8. Texas A&M 2-1·0 
9. Virginia 5-1-0 10.Tennessee 4-1-0 11. Auburn 3-1-0 
12. 
Penn State · 3-1-0 

13. 
Kansas State 4-0-0 14. Oklahoma 3-1-0 15. Washington 3-1-0 16. Alabama 3-1-0 17.0regon 3-1-0 18. Arkansas 4-1-0 19. Stanford 3-Q-1


• 
20. Texas 3-1-0 
21. Louisiana St 3-1-1 22. Wisconsin 2-1-1 
23. Notre Dame 3·2·0 24. Kansas 4-0-0 25. Northwestern 3-1-0 

• THE IRISH EXTRA STAFF 
Editor: Mike Norbut 
Managing Editor: Tim Sherman Associate Editor: Tim Seymour Graphic Design: Chris Mullins Production: Thomas Schlidt Contributing Writers: Andy Cabiness, Megan McGrath, Thomas Schlidt 
, r LateNiteSpec;;r , r Large1,opping , r -LunchSpeck/ , I I Large I I Bread Stix I I 1Small 2Topping I I I 1Topping Pizza I I 2 Cokes I I 2Cokes I 
PREV· 
POINTS IOUS 
1522 1 1489 2 1384 3 1381 4 1292 5 1292 7 1181 8 1068 9 1027 11 971 12 961 13 801 6 737 16 654 10 579 18 545 20 470 19 438 23 415 22 378 21 359 14 308 -­258 15 223 25 147 -­
• GAMES OF INTEREST 
#6 OHIO STATE at #12 PENN STATE The Niitany Lions are reeling after a loss last week to Wisconsin. The Buckeyes are looking to get a leg up in the Big Ten race, and want revenge from last year. 
NORTH CAROLINA at #9 VIRGINIA The Cavaliers are on a roll after a season-opening loss to Michigan, but they have climbed back into the Top Ten. The Tarheels have had some disappointments after being a preseason Top 25 pick. 
#25 NORTHWESTERN at #7 MICHIGAN Go figure. The Wildcats have climbed back into the Top 25 for the second time in 30 years. They actually might have a chance against the Wolverines. who may be looking for the purple patsies of old to show up. 
#10 TENNESSEE at #18 ARKANSAS An SEC matchup that could have been terrific had Tennessee beaten Florida and Arkansas topped Auburn. As it is, it looks to be a big regional show­down with severe conference implications. 
• PEERLESS PROOIIOSTICATORS 
Tim Seymour Mike Norbut Tim Sherman 

(14-9) (9-14) (16-7) 
Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Ohio State Penn State Ohio State Virginia Virginia N. Carolina Michigan Michigan Northwestern
•
Tennessee Arkansas Arkansas 

P1p1 Predlcl1: 
Notre Dame 32 
Washington 14 
Saint Mary's Store Hours* 
Mon-Sat llam-lam 
Sunday Noon-lam 


: $695 . : : $2295. :: $5~,~<,: : : $1000-: : $695 .. : 
L-----~L-----~L-----~L-----~L-----~
*From 1:OOam -3:00am (Fri/Sat Only) Call the ND Store for Delivery Service 
•· 
I ' I 1 1 I I 





