
Friday, February 3, 1995 • Vol. XXVI No. 79 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
A developing vision 
Malloy shares thoughts on Colloquy 2000 
By DAVE TYLER 
News Editor 
When the mythical "tomorrow" of science fic­tion writers finally gets here, where will Notre Dame be? 
Don't look now, but tomorrow is well on its way. 
University President Rev. Edward Malloy C.S.C. has set the wheels of Our Lady in motion as it reaches the horizons of a new millennia. When Malloy submitted his "Final Heport of the Colloquy for the Year 2000" to the University's Board of Trustees on May 7,1993 he handed them a document of grand vision and sweeping proposals, a blueprint of how the Notre Dame machine should run in the 21st century. 
Malloy's plan outlined 43 recommendations and 22 building projects in four major areas of examination. Committees on Academic Life; Finances, University Helations and Athletics; Student Life; and Mission, Opportunities and Challenges worked with the President's Committee for the Whole of the Colloquy for the Year 2000 to create a document that deals with Notre Dame's concerns for the future as a re­ligious and secular university. 

The Colloquy offered seven key foci to be addressed in coming years. It recom­mended that Financial Aid and Scholar­ship Assistance, Excellence in Teaching, Research and Scholarship, the University Libraries, International Education, Diversity and Affirmative Action, Residentiality, and Catholic Character be examined and the University's stance on those issues be clearly defined. 
Now, twenty months after that report hit the desk of the trustees, and less than five years from that mythical mil­lennia barrier, the campus is abuzz 
see COLLOQUY/page 4 

Sullivan speaks on homosexuals and the Church 
ByTOMMORAN 
News Writer 
The Catholic Church's doctrine concerning homosexuals is illogical and self-contradictory, according to Andrew Sullivan, editor of the New Republic, who gave a lecture entitled "The Gay Catholic Paradox" at the Hesburgh Library auditorium. 
• see PROTEST page 3 
Sullivan, a native Englishman, IS a graduate of Oxford and Harvard Universities. He is also openly gay, as well as a practicing Catholic. 
Sullivan stated that the Catholic Church is self-contradictory in that it preaches treating homosexuals with dignity, yet it continues to classify sexual homosexual relations as sinful. 
Sullivan cited two Catholic Church docu­ments, issued by the Sacred Congregation for the Propagation of the Faith, that treat homo­sexuality in a sympathetic light. A letter issued in 1975 even acknowledged that in some cases homosexuality is an instinctive, "incurable" trait-or, as Sullivan said, the Church admitted "that gay people were born gay." 
Another official Church missive, published in 1986, urged that homosexuals be treated with "honest concern and theologically well-bal­anced counsel." It also specifically referred to homosexuals when it stated that "Every per­son is made in the image of God... The intrinsic dignity of each person must be respected." 
Sullivan pointed out that by enforcing a poli­cy of sidestepping the topic of homosexuality, the Church is disobeying its own doctrine as 
see CHURCH/ page 5 

NROTC starts middle school tutoring program 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
Assistant News Editor 
Ian Fowlie is one of about 200 Naval HOTC midshipmen who will be working with stu­dents at Pierre Navarre Middle School in South Bend as part of a new agreement signed between HOTC and school offi­cials yesterday. 
Fowlie, who will tutor stu­dents and aid teachers in the classrooms, is excited about the project. 
"It's a great idea. ROTC has done other short-term service projects before, but this is a long-term, focused effort," he said. "I think it will be very ef­fective." 
According to the agreement, midshipmen will tutor students, chaperone field trips, work at science fairs, and assist the middle school's athletic teams in order to enhance the quality of the middle school students' education, according to Gerald McGee, principal of Pierre Navarre, an inner-city school. 
"[The agreement] sends a positive message to the stu­dents and brings role models into the school," McGee said. "It's great for the students." 
In addition, the ROTC unit will bring well-deserving mid­dle schoolers to the University campus to tour the Snite Mu­seum of Art, visit science labo­ratories, and browse through the Hesburgh Library. 
At Pierre Navarre, midship­men will also develop an out­door environmental classroom and build a weight room. 
Jason Domzal, a midshipman whose hometown grade school entered a similar agreement with a local business while he was a student there, is looking forward to beginning the pro­gram. 
''I'm very excited. When my school was adopted, I was amazed by how willing the peo­ple donated their time," Domzal, coordinator of service projects for Naval ROTC, said. "I want to do the same thing." 
Fowlie, the commanding offi­cer of his battalion, agreed. 
"The program will be rewarding to both sides," he said. "It's an opportunity to give something of ourselves." 
The particular skills and aca­demic backgrounds of each midshipman will be utilized, according to McGee. One mid­shipman who spent last sum­mer in Washington, D.C., has volunteered to talk to a social studies class about his experi­ences. 
Captain Russell Pickett, com­manding officer of Notre Dame's Naval ROTC, decided to initiate the partnership with Pierre Navarre after beginning other such programs while sta­tioned elsewhere in the United States. 
see ROTC/ page 5 

ND alumni commands Discovery 
Historic flight includes first woman pilot 
Special to The Observer 

Astronaut Jim Wetherbee, a 197 4 University of Notre Dame graduate, will command the NASA space shuttle Discovery on a mission that was sched­uled to leave early this morn­ing. 
The mission was supposed to fly Thursday, but NASA delayed liftoff to replace a failed naviga­tion unit. 
Wetherbee will be accompa­nied by a crew of six, including Lieut. Col. Eileen Collins of the 
U.S. Air Force. Collins is the first woman to pilot a NASA spaceship. 
The crew also includes the second Russian to fly on a shut­tle, Col. Vladimir Titov of the Russian Air Force. 
This Discovery flight is the first of eight shuttle trips planned to Russia's orbiting station, Mir, through 1997, and is the shortest shuttle launch window in 10 years. 
Discovery will hover near the Mir station but won't actually dock. The mission is a dress rehearsal for June, when At­lantis will link up with Mir. 
The last time U.S. and Rus­sian spacecraft met in orbit was in 197 5 when the Apollo and 

Courtesy of Notre Dame Public Relations 

Notre Dame graduate Jim Wetherbee will complete his third space mission on the Space Shuttle Discovery. 
Soyuz ships docked. 
Wetherbee, 42, was Notre Dame's first graduate in space when he piloted the Columbia in 1990 on an 11 day shuttle mission. He carried abroad the spacecraft the University's 1925 Laetare medal awarded 
see NASA/ page 5 
Saint Marys Elections TODAY! 
Vote in the Dining Hall during all meals. 


page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, February 3, 1995 


Questioning tnore than 



advertising 
With the turmoil sur----..............-­rounding the expulsion of GLND/SMC from their reg­ular meeting place, the majority of the Notre Dame community has wit­nessed something quite amazing: GLND/SMC's cri­sis situation has finally brought the issue to the forefront of debate. Even more surprising is that the issue will be dis­cussed at length in the -------­approaching Student Government elections and should effectively challenge many stu­dent's definition of what the Notre Dame­Saint Mary's "community" truly encompasses. 
As Editor-in-Chief, my dealings with GLND/SMC have been quite extensive. When I took my current position over a year ago, I was briefed by the outgoing Editor-in-Chief on the intricacies of balancing the best interests of GLND/SMC with the interests of the University. 
There are special guidelines set forth by key administrators that are designed to keep the appearance of GLND/SMC advertisements from looking "official." The information handed down to me by the outgoing editor was passed down to him by his predecessor. This intricate chain of instructions and guide­lines has been extended for a number of years. In the coming weeks, I will pass the information to our new editor. It has become a yearly rite of passage for an editor-in-chief to meet with key administrators and discuss the advertising policy for GLND/SMC. We feel that it has always been in the best interests for the community at large and for The Observer to afford GLND/SMC every opportu­nity to advertise. 
Each year the editor exits the meeting with administrators, having been given examples of what the University feels is correct to print. The rationale presented to me by the University was the idea that the ads looked too "official" by having displayed their name or acronym. This year, they added that GLND/SMC frequently used the triangle sym­bol in their ads and it was becoming too well known, therefore not properly denoting an underground organization. This year's meet­ing, coincidentally, immediately followed the Sept. 8 publishing of the ad that led to GLND/SMC's eventual removal from the coun­seling center. 
Most bothersome in this whole debate con­cerns each administrator's view on the sub­ject. I have not talked to an individual in the administration who did not profess to be sym­pathetic to the needs of the students who form GLND/SMC. They have maintained that the University's refusal to recognize GLND/SMC is not intended to signal a lack of concern for the needs of our gay and lesbian students. 
Yet, GLND/SMC is repeatedly denied recog­
nition, and now has been removed from cam­
pus. If the administrators feel strongly on the 
issue as individuals, why do they contradict 
themselves as a collective whole? When 
should their individual moral obligations cre­
ate the need to at least discuss the issues in 
an open environment? 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Jake Peters 
Editor-in-chief 


News Lab Tech Kristi Kolski Mike Shaf Amy Schmidt Production Sports David Diaz Mike Norbut Belle Bautista Andy Cabiness Accent Viewpoint Krista Nannery Krista Nannery Graphics Robert Bollman 
The Observer {USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproducrio.n rights are reserved. 
• WORU! AT AGUtNt:E 
AIDS cases drop as spread of fatal disease holds steady 
ATLANTA from 106,618 the previous year, 
The rate at which AIDS is the CDC said. spreading has leveled off and "The epidemic is slowing, and the number of new cases we can take comfort in that ­reported every year is falling, but small comfort," Ward said. health officials said Thursday. Together, the 1994 and 1993 
The report from the Centers figures represent more than 40 for Disease Control and percent of all 441,528 AIDS Prevention came just three cases reported since 1981, he days after the CDC announced pointed out. that AIDS is now the leading More than half of the 1994 killer of Americans ages 25 to cases resulted from the 1993 
44. redefinition of AIDS. 
Since the early 1980s, when That demonstrates the dis­AIDS cases snowballed by 200 ease's shift from the once-tradi­percent a year as it spread tional gay male population to through the white homosexual heterosexuals, women, blacks population, the disease is stabi­and Hispanics, and those living lizing at a 3 percent annual in the South and Northeast, increase under an old defini­according to Ward. tion of the disease, according to "This isn't a disease that's Dr. John Ward, the CDC's chief staying in one population," said 

of HN-AIDS surveillance. 
"It's not growing as rapidly as in earlier years, but the rate is still unacceptably high," he said. He predicted a similar increase in 1995. 
The AIDS defmition was expanded in 1993 to reflect the toll on women, and people with tuberculosis or depressed immune systems. 
Last year, 80,691 new AIDS cases were reported, down 
Carter nominated for Nobel Prize 
OSLO, Norway 

Former President Jimmy Carter and Chinese dissideat Wei Jingsheng are among the nominees for this year's Nobel Peace Prize, Norwegian media said Thursday. They and several oth­ers, including a Russian human rights campaigner and an imprisoned 

Kurdish politician, have been reported Jimmy Carter 
among the many nominations received 
by the Nobel Peace Prize committee. 
Carter was nominated for helping defuse a nuclear crisis 
in North Korea and mediating before the U.S. military 
intervention in Haiti last year. Nobel prizes usually are announced in October. The Nobel Peace Prize is present­ed each year in Oslo, Norway, on Dec. 10, the anniver­sary of the death of Alfred Nobel, the Swedish industrial­ist who created and endowed the prizes. The 1994 Peace Prize was shared by PLO leader Yasser Arafat, Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres and Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin. 
'Fantasy Man' faced with rape charges 
NASHVILLE 
The phone rings late at night. In a sexy whisper, a man persuades a woman to unlock her door, undress, put on a blindfold and wait for him in bed. At least three women did so, thinking he was their boyfriend, and had sex with the so-called Fantasy Man -one woman twice a week for two months. Now they want police to charge Raymond Mitchell III with rape. The 45-year-old busi­nessman says he was just fulfilling the women's fantasies and the sex was consensual. Investigators are looking at whether Mitchell claimed to be someone else, which could constitute rape by fraud. No decision has been made whether to present the current case to a grand jury, said Rosemary Sexton, the Davidson County assis­tant district attorney. Meanwhile, newspaper reports of Fantasy Man have brought new claims from women who said they, too, received calls from Mitchell. Police said there were at least three such complaints, but they won't give any details. 


Friday, Feb. 3 
Accu-Weather'"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Friday, Feb. 3. 


llndianapoli3 37" I 
ILL 
• 

.............,. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1995 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 
H LEa GSl 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN 
Via Associated Press
~ 
Atlanta 41 40 Baltimore 32 28 Boston 34 19
~~~~~~-$)~~ 
Chicago 17 15
S~~;e~; T-~~;,;,s Rain ~~~;;;~~ ~~~·~· ~;; -Sunny" Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Columbus 27 27 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet ©1 995 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Troy Petenbrink of the National Association of People with AIDS. · 
Children with AIDS were one aspect of the report that surprised the CDC, Ward said. Their numbers jumped 8 percent, from 942 in 1993 to 1,017 last year. But the rate should soon start to slow as more pregnant women use the anti-AIDS drug AZT to protect their babies from infection, he said. 
Christian judge refuses death penalty 
MANILA, Philippines 

Citing his Christian beliefs, a judge refused to follow the law and sentence two men to death for raping and murdering a 7 -year-old girl. Now the girl's family is out­raged, congressmen want him fired, and Communist rebels are threatening to kill him. On Tuesday, Judge Lorenzo Veneracion of the Manila Regional Trial Court found Ernesto Cordero and Henry Lagarto guilty of rap­ing, torturing and murdering Angel Alquiza last August. After the sentences were read out in court, Angel's moth­er, Zenaida Alquiza, burst into tears. "Even if you kill these men 10 times, that won't be enough for what they did to my daughter," she sobbed. Veneracion _cited .r~li­gious principles for his decision. "I rendered this decision not to please the crowd but in the light of what God gave me," he said. The House of Representatives demanded the Supreme Court investigate Veneracion and remove him from the bench if necessary. "Veneracion should be defrocked, disrobed and be left out in the streets so that the public can exact the Biblical kind of justice that he espouses," Rep. Roilo Golez thundered. 
Musical talent means larger brain 
WASHINGTON 

Some people are born with a magical sense of music, but without early training the gift may be lost, according to a scientist who studies the shape and size of the brain in the musically talented. Pictures of the brains of 30 classically trained musicians show that those who have perfect pitch -the ability to identify isolated musical notes they hear -have an enlarged structure on the left side of the brain. Dr. Gottfried Schlaug of Beth Israel Hospital said that musicians who lacked perfect pitch had a brain much like that of people who can't play a note Perfect pitch may originate from the left-sided enlarge­ment of a brain structure called the planum temporale. Both the left and right hemispheres of the brain have this structure, said Schlaug, but only the left side planum temporale was enlarged in the musicians who had per­fect pitch. Brain experts said the finding is impo~tant because it is the first to specifically and systematically relate a structure of the brain to an artistic talent. 
~ ~ r'\ 
[TI] 0 !Za8 ~ ~~ 
T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Dallas 57 29 New Orleans54 36 Denver 62 26 New York 34 27 LA 87 59 Philadelphia 37 28 Miami 70 62 Phoenix 81 54 Minneapolis17 8 St. Louis 31 20 GLND/SMC protests on the steps of the Administration Building. 




Students protest new policy 
By JOHN LUCAS Managing Editor 
Approximately 60 students gathered outside the Adminis­tration Building during the lunch hour yesterday to protest the university's recent decision to bar gays and les­bians from meeting in the University Counseling Center. 
The rally, which was spon­sored by the Notre Dame branch of Pax Christi, attract­ed local television crews, 
Delivery Hours 
($8 minimum order) 

4:30-10:30 p.m. 
7 Days a Week! 



271·0125 

members of Gays and Lesbians of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's (GLND/SMC) and interested passerbys. 
Organizers encouraged stu­dents with concerns about the new policy to address the crowd from the steps of of the Golden Dome. 
John Blandford, co-chair­man of GLND/SMC, urged administrators to reconsider their stance and asked that all homosexual issues be con­sidered in an "open, rational debate in the best of the Catholic tradition." 
Blandford said he was en­couraged by the national pub­licity the group had recently received, including a page three article in the Chicago Tribune. He also restated plans to step up GLND/SMC's protests of the university's stance. 
"Notre Dame is taking up the caboose of the Catholic world," he said. 


._ 
~~ 
with any purchase _. 
8Dsd t/mlupb ,va,tS. • 
~~oo...,..,.,_,.,.,_ 
• 
SIDIII--IIhor 
IIIII-. 

'Blizzard of Bucks' and other activities sponsored by SAB 
By BECKY MAYERNIK News Writer 
The Saint Mary's Student Ac­tivities Board (SAB) has planned several events for the semester, including the quickly approaching "Blizzard Of Bucks." 
SAB will sponsor the game show "Blizzard Of Bucks" at 8 
p.m. on Thursday, February 9 in Carroll Auditorium. The event is being planned by SAB coordinator Audrey Comrie, and chairperson Aida Tessema. According to Tessema, students who wish to participate will be able to fill out a form upon en­tering the event, and names will be drawn randomly to de­cide who will actually play the game. 
For an admission price of $2, participants have a chance to win up to $500, T-shirts, and other prizes, according to Tessema. The cash machine will also be in the dining hall on 
Earn $$ for Spring Break 
February ~ 1 B!l 19 
Sign-Ups are: 

Mon-Fri: 10:00 a.m.-4:30p.m. Special Saturday 2/4: 10:00 a.m.-4:30p.m. Catering Employment Office: Basement, South Dining Hall 631-5449/8792 
each other, so it is like a big sporting event," stated chair­person Stephanie Jackson. "There's a great deal of audi­ence participation in their act, and they bring comedy into ev­eryday events." 
Hypnotist Jim Wand is also scheduled to appear on Tues­day, March 21 from 7-9 p.m. in Carroll Auditorium. Tickets will be $2, and they will be available at the door, according to SAB chairperson Jessica Zigmond. 
"We've heard great things about him and we think it will be a good break in the semes­ter," said Zigmond. "We know that hypnotists are very well received, and we wanted to do this for our campus." 
This weekend's movie will be "The Lion King," which will co­incide with events planned for Saint Mary's Little Sibs Week­end. The movie will be shown in Carroll Auditorium on Friday at 7 and 9:30 p.m. 

-----·----~-----------., 


Colloquy 
continued from page 1 

with the meetings and recom­mendations of committees, the roar of construction equipment and the humming of fund rais­ing campaign switchboards. Now, is when the ideas of the Colloquy are being are taken off the drawing board and being put into practice. 
Are things proceeding as planned? Are the engines of progress turning in the right direction? Will Notre Dame be prepared to face the challenges of a new age? 
Father Malloy says "Yes." 

In an interview this week, Malloy discussed the progress the University is making to­wards fulfilling the goals of Colloquy in the light of several recent reports, the beginning of construction on Keough and O'Neill Halls, and stepped up fundraising efforts to support the new initiatives. 
According to Malloy, the Col­loquy itself served three pri­mary purposes; institutional self-study, support for last year's reaccreditation process, and as a means of launching Notre Dame's 21st century fundraising. 
The president said he has been encouraged so far by the recommendations, donations, and the implementation of the Colloquy's goals. 
"All the indicators are very positive, we're having good suc­
cess and a good response. I'm r---r------------------------.---,rl Saturday, February 4 
will be reached through the
optimistic that the overall goals II




0PE I N G so0 N 
hard work of everybody in­volved," said Malloy. The committees on Interna­tional Studies; The University 

A_. _______ L 

M0vI E s1 0 
Computing Initiative; Research,
Scholarship, and Infrastructure, and University Libraries all handed their reports to Provost Timothy O'Meara and the Academic Council in the last twelve months, Malloy finds 
I 
their conclusions significant. The Libraries Committee saw 
I 
a crisis developing within the current library system, particu­
I
larly at Hesburgh Memorial Li­brary. Their report highlighted 
I
three areas of major concern: Funding, personnel and space. 
I
The system, they said was in dire need of attention to all three. Malloy said he could not 
I 
agree more. "The major improvement of 
I the Library is our most critical academic need," said Malloy. 
I 
Malloy agreed with the com­mittee's finding that more 
I 
space is needed at Hesburgh and that non-library personnel, 
I
like basement offices and Graduate Student Offices may 
I
be moved to create more room. "Built into to our planning is 
I
a recognition that we need to move out of the library those individuals, activities, and groups that are not library re­lated," he said. "We'll need to find alternate spaces for those groups." 
New shelving can also create more room, said Malloy. 
The Library of the future will be at the same time modern and traditional, incorporating a blend of technologies to make it a quality resource that's easy to use, and a facility that compa­rable to other those at other major American universities. 
"I think people will notice a very dramatic and quick im­provement in our Library in the next five years," Malloy said. 
An area that Malloy admits does not have the quick fix of the Library is student life and relations. Calling the question of male and female relations an "international dilemma," the president said "there is no promised land." But the univer­sity is working on addressing the issue with plans for more accessible twenty-four hour space and alternative projects like a new RecSports facility. 
"I think what we have to fo­cus on is, relative to our physi­cal environment and the nature of our community, how we can maximize the healthiest possi­ble social situation that fits here," he said. 
Renovation plans for older dormitories like his own Sorin Hall can help address the male and female space question, said Malloy. 
University Computing has flourished over the past five years, as the report of that committee demonstrated. An all-campus computer network is scheduled to be completed next year, clusters have made terminal space available to all students, Debartolo Hall setting new standards for technologies and many major administrative functions of the University are now automated. Under the auspices of the Office of Uni­versity Computing, Notre Dame is now recognized as a leader in computing in higher education. 
Malloy applauds the success of the initiative, but acknowl­edges a need to proceed and expand with caution. The suc­cess of the past has served the University well, he said. 
"We've learned the university of the future is going to need state of the art software and hardware to be a fully function­ing modern university," said Malloy. "We're now at the fore­front of computing, especially for pedagogy. I don't want to see us pull back from that. We want to make sure that we're taking a good appraisal of what's going on around us, because the turn-around time is so short." 
The connection of dorms to the campus network is the next major addition to campus com­puting systems, Malloy said. 
Malloy believes good decision making, like the development of clusters and the choice of not buying supercomputers (which can now be accessed with ease over the Internet) will continue to mark the growth of Notre Dame computing. "We will have to make realistic assess­ments about the community as a whole and the utilization of our resources," he said. "Notre Dame will continue to be a place where service to the user will have the highest priority and preoccupation with hard­ware will not." 
The International Studies committee made several inter­esting and innovative sugges­tions. They proposed sending 40 percent of the student body overseas at one time during their Notre Dame education, and expressed interest in de­veloping programs in Russia, China and Africa. Malloy said the feasibility and specifics of such recommendations would become more clear over time, . " I think (the committee's goals) are good targets to set for our­selves, but we're going to have to put all the variables together and figure out what steps to take frrst." 
The Research, Scholarship and Infrastructure Report pro­poses the growth of graduate facilities and programs at Notre Dame. Included in its pages are proposals for an improved research infrastructure, specif­ically better equipment and more facilities. In the Colloquy Malloy called for a "small but excellent" Notre Dame gradu­ate school. He maintains that this goal can be achieved with­out sacrificing undergraduate education. 
"By obtaining additional re­sources allocated for (graduate programs), and not adding the fee on to undergraduate tuition, we can be an excellent gradu­ate school," said Malloy. In­creased financial aid, largely from funds gained through do­nations, would help accomplish graduate growth without com­promising undergraduate pro­grams. 
Improvements in financial aid opportunities for all students must be a top concern, too, said Malloy. The university would 
see COLLOQUY/page 8 


(/~ #I"J~ __ ...._ _. I~ 
..... 
• 
Rocking Chair Hi-back lounger Seats 

• 
Digital Stereo Surround Sound 

• 
Wide. Wall To Wall Screens 

• 
large "Jumpers" Video Arcade Room 

• 
Cupholder Armrests In Every Seat 

• 
Computerized Same Day Advanced Ticketing 

• 
Two large Concession Stands 


Featuring ..... 

Hollywood's Newest Releases at Great Prices!!!! 

David Mamet's American Buffalo 
The largest Theatre Complex In The Mishawaka & South Bend Area 
U.S.20 
Mishawaka 
Directed by 
Produced by the Notre Dame Student Players contains profanity and Produced by special arrangement with Samuel French, Inc. harsh language 

8:30 -11:30 a.m. 

12 7 Nieuwland 
Kaplan Teaching Session 11:30-12:30 p.m. 
Registration on site & in 101 O'Shaughnessy 
"THE FINEST IN OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING" 
·FOUR AND FIVE BEDROOM TOWNHOMES ·TWO BATHROOMS ·SECURITY SYSTEMS ·KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE 
DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR, AND RANGE ·WASHER AND DRYER IN EACH UNIT ·GAS HEAT ·CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING ·PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT ·24-HOUR MAINTENANCE ·ONE MILE FROM THE NOTRE DAME 
CAMPUS 

NOW LEASING FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 

232-8256 
Stephen Susco 
$3.00 Reserved Seating 
Tickets on sale now at the LaFortune Information Desk 
February 2-4, 1995 
Washington Hall Mainstage 
8:10pm 
.... NOTE: play 
------~--------­
McGee and the school also en­couraged us." 
ROTC Church
Ideally, officials are hoping for 500 hours per semester
continued from page 1 continued from page 1
from among the 200 midship­"We wanted to provide assis­men, according to Fowlie. stated in the 1986 letter. tance to teachers and good role "We're not supposed, by the
During a ceremony announc­
models to students," he said. ing the signing of the agree­Church, to be in the closet Pickett then talked to Lieu­ment yesterday afternoon, about this issue," he said. tenant Commander Wendy McGee and Rear Admiral Paul "We're supposed to be the sub­
Chiado, who contacted the Tobin, vice-chief of Naval Edu­ject of honest counsel, yet I 
South Bend Community School cation and Training from Pen­have never heard a sermon on Corporation in October. The sacola, Fla., spoke on the im­the subject of homosexuality." school district gave Chiado a portance of the project. list of five possible schools, one Fowlie then presented a slide In other cases, Church doc­of which was Pierre Navarre. show depicting life as a mid­trine does not preach tolerance 
"We chose Pierre Navarre shipmen at Notre Dame, and a of homosexuals, Sullivan said. 
because [unlike the other four 10-minute video detailing life The 1975 letter said that "Any schools! they didn't have a as a naval officer followed. homosexual act can, in no case, partnership with any other The agreement between be approved of." In this letter, school or business," Chiado Naval ROTC and Pierre Sullivan pointed out, 'act' said. "Moreover, as an inner­Navarre, one of 1,000 such refers only to genital sexual ac­city school, this school needs agreements in the United tivity. us." States, will continue perma­Chiado and McGee ironed out nently. Herein, he said, lies one of the details of the agreement "We hope it will be a long the major paradoxes of Church during the next three months, and fruitful relationship," doctrine: it acknowledges that deciding the activities in which Chiado said. homosexuality can be an in­the midshipmen would help. 
nate, and therefore guiltless, "Pierre Navarre is a small 
Celebrate a friend's 
trait-and yet in condemns the enough school that the number 
manifestation of this trait as a
birthday with a
of people who volunteer can 
sin. Sullivan said the Church make a difference," Pickett 
blames homosexuals for some­
special Observer ad. 
said. "The enthusiasm of Mr. 
thing that it clearly acknowl­


~OBSERVER 
is now accepting applications for 
Applicants should ~r~i~~~~~is~~~~~~fm~hle in a man­
agement position. A basic understanding of newspaper production and experience with the Macintosh system is helpful. Any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student is encouraged to apply. 
Business Manager 
Any sophomore or junior business major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's interested in valu­able work experience is encouraged to apply. Applicants should have strong interpersonal and organizational skills, and a basic understanding of accounting principles. 
Please submit a 3 page personal statement ofintent and a resume to john Lucas by Wednesday, February 8 at 5:00p.m. For questions about the positions call Managing Editor john Lucas at 631-4 541 or Business Manager joe Riley at 631-5313. 
Sophomore Lit Festival ***Fehr.,.,...,. 1-16*** 


,A\1 -'-~ 
in the Hesburgh L1 Auditorium Feb.11:Mar yner Feb. 12: Mich IIins Feb. 13: J. ·a Cooper Feb. 14: S............ ding Feb. 15: ds Feb. i6~ 
•
"Her face shines with the consczousness ofa cat ... --Galwa 
edges is not their fault 
Sullivan said the official Church explanation for this pol­icy is that the Church con­demns all extramarital sexual activity, whether it be hetero­sexual or homosexual. The problem with this, though, is that the Church advocates mar­riage and procreation as the ultimate end or conclusion of a loving relationship. 
Homosexuals, he said, are of­fered no such destiny by the Church, and thus are judged incapable of leading a fulfilling life within the Catholic para­digm. 
The Catholic Church, Sullivan said, regards as the greatest person the one that "loves an­other person deeply, makes sacrifices for them: that is who we value the most." 
That, he said, "is where the hostility and oppression of ho­mosexuals begins ... (they) can't give (us) the ability to love," which is regarded as the most important function of a Catholic. 
Sullivan noted that the Church, by recognizing innate homosexuality yet barring ho­mosexual relationships, "both affirms the dignity of homosex­ual persons and denies them the ability to love." 
Sullivan believes that the Church should directly address the issue of homosexuality. 
"The Church is silent-its only statements are reactive and embarrassed," he said. "How should (homosexuals) be good Catholics? These questions are simply not answered." 
He also said that another part of the solution to the prob­lems confronting Catholic homosexuals is for the Church to offer them the same treat­ment it gives all other humans. "If the homosexual person is a human being, the same value structure should apply to homosexual love as heterosex­ual love." Only then, he said, can homosexuals find a wel­come place within the doctrine of the Catholic Church. 
Sullivan, when questioned regarding the University's re­cent decision to evict the GLND/SMC from their longtime meeting place, said that he found it "ridiculous," and said that "if the Church's response to this is to throw people off campus, it is incredibly de­pressing." 
Throughout the lecture, Sullivan continually expressed his faith in the Church, even when he disagreed with its doc­trine. In part, he said, this is because the Church's belief in the truth made it impossible for him to conceal his sexuality. 
"People ask, 'How can you be openly gay and Catholic?' And I answer, 'I'm openly gay be­cause I am Catholic," he said. 
He said that the Church's teachings "to witness to the truth, and to love one another, made it impossible for me to 
0 "
1Ie. 

for that healthy summertime glow... experience 





Tanning
with state-ofthe-artfacilities 

Valentine's Special Free Week of Unlimited Tanning with Shampoo and Cut 
Quality Hair Care-Guaranteed! WE REALLY CARE! 
n..c..~ ......... 
1811 htitllh.,Ave.

we c.are h01,.• ® Moo<~~~~~~r:p,m, 
---=~---------~--Sot. 9a,m.-5p.m. • Son, II a.m.-4p,m, 
r~-~9-95' r--~0-%--0FF-, 
., any Paul Mitchell®


pERM 

or Redken® 

longer hair or specially wrap extra Purchase 
----------------------~ L---------------------­
Is the South Bend winter everything you thought it would be? 
Bring on the Spring in style with: 
THE WINTER DEFIANCE DANCE 
Brought to you by FLIP SIDE 

Now you ask, what is a winter defiance dance? 
Answer: A dance occurring in the winter where people act as if it was spring. Proper attire will be shorts and T-shirts. If sane (not applicable to F.S. officers), come dressed a little bit warmer and change when you get there. 
WHEN: Saturday, February 4@ 9:00-1:30 


WHERE: The 2nd floor LaFortune Ballroom 
HOW MUCH? Always the inevitable ques­

tion, admission is $2.00 for ND and SMC students and $1.50 for Flip Side members. 
Any questions, call Jen (4653) or Mark (1582) for details. 
Republicans ready for 'Contract' compromise 
By DAVID ESPO 
A•sociated Press 
WASHINGTON 

In command just shy of a month, House Republicans are showing a willingness to com­promise on the details of their "Contract With America." They're facing tough struggles on taxes, spending, welfare and term limits as they race against a self-imposed 100-day dead­line. 
"We're clearly on schedule," Speaker Newt Gingrich said Thursday as GOP aides outlined a schedule of long days and late nights for March and early April when the final measures reach the House floor. 
Rep. Richard Gephardt, the Democratic leader, countered that the voters ultimately will reject the GOP program's main elements. "It does not address the central challenges our country faces ... the standard of Jiving for the American peo­ple," he said. 
The precise pledge made in the "contract" is to hold votes on the House floor before 100 days on bills covering 10 areas. It's likely to be Labor Day or later before final House-Senate compromises are worked out on the more contentious items and the bills are sent to Presi­dent Clinton. 
Whatever the future, the Re­publican reign that began Jan. 4 has been extraordinarily busy by congressional standards. 
"I've got to say we're moving a whole lot faster than the other major event in the coun­try, the O.J. Simpson trial," Rep. Porter Goss, R-Fla., declared as the House began its work day Thursday. 
Congress customarily waits until mid-February to get down to business. Yet by Thursday­Day 30 -the House had al­ready cleared some measures, and was launching a debate on a bill to enhance a president's ability to cut spending. 
Previously, the House voted to live under the same laws as it imposes on the rest of the country -a bill signed by Pres­ident Clinton -passed a bal­anced-budget amendment to the Constitution. 


attention 
SOPHOMORES AND GRADUATE STUDENTSI 
e Paid SUftlftleP internships 
available in the field of employee benefits. Successful candidates work in full-time paid positions with area or national firms during the two summers before graduation. Must attend required educational seminars. Minimum 3.0 GPA required. 
For more information contact your Career Services Center or call Ronaelle Carlson at (708) 986-5539. 
The International Foundation of Employee 
Benefit Plans is a nonprofit educational 
association. 

I.E INTERNS Program 
International Foundation ~ OF EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS ~ 
LAST DAV FOR SIGN-UPS! 
2nd Apppnl Troop ND Talent Show 
Be a part of the only Campus-wide talent show of Notre Dmne and St. Mary's Friday Febnam-y 24 at 7:30pm Washington Hall 
Register for Auditions 
Friday February-3 

12:30 pm-4:30pm in the Dooley Room 1st floor of LaFortune 
Auditions 
Monday February-6 
6pm-10 pm 


Washington Hall 
Prizes -Gift Certificaze:s, Travelling Trophy ... ~U!brity oflocal and campus judges. A nighl of:singing, dancing, cowredy... 
Any Questions? Contact Entile at x3589 or Lisa at 273-6033 
1
a 

Mexican aid under pressure 
By MARTIN CRUTSINGER 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
U.S. and international mone­tary officials sought to reassure jittery financial markets Thurs­day that an unprecedented res­cue package for Mexico will work and will not be blocked by congressional opponents. 
But critics continued to call the use of $20 billion from a special U.S. Treasury fund a back-door bailout by President Clinton that ignored the will of Congress. 
A group of 17 House mem­bers filed legislation to overturn Clinton's action. In a letter to Clinton, the group asserted, "There is such a determined effort to avoid a Mexican default that your administration is prepared to circumvent Congress by resorting to an unwarranted and unprecedent­ed exercise of power." 
However, Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin brushed aside the group's complaints, telling re­porters that the administration was not worried about the legislation or any possible court challenge. 
"We would not have pro­ceeded if we thought there was a question over our authority to act," Rubin said. 
Clinton on Tuesday abruptly abandoned a two-week effort to get congressional approval for $40 billion in U.S. loan guaran­tees for Mexico in the face of widespread opposition and opinion polls showing little pub­lic support. 
Instead, he acted unilaterally to tap into a Treasury fund ere­. ated by Congress in 1934. The basic function of the Exchange 
10 BEDS (greattan) 

Stabilization Fund is to provide resources for the Treasury Department to defend the U.S. currency by buying and selling dollars during periods of cur­rency turmoil. 
However, Rubin said the ad­ministration's legal experts be­lieved the law that created the fund allowed it to be used as well to provide the $20 billion in support to Mexico. 
House Speaker Newt Gin­grich, R-Ga., who signed a statement along with other con­gressional leaders endorsing the decision continued to sup­port the action on Thursday. He said the bill to overturn Clin­ton's executive order was not likely to reach the House floor. 
However, opponents vowed to continue their fight. Sen. Jesse Helms, R-N.C., chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said his offices had been flooded with calls express­ing outrage that Clinton had bypassed Congress. 
"I have opposed this scheme from the very beginning," Helms said in a statement. "The American taxpayers should not be placed at risk in bailing out Wall Street bankers and speculators." 
Rubin said that the whole is­sue of Mexico would be taken up during two days of meetings beginning Friday in Toronto. They involve finance ministers and central bank presidents of the world's seven leading economies: the United States, Japan, Germany, Britain, France, Italy and Canada. 
He said one of the key issues on the agenda would be how to improve operations of the In­ternational Monetary Fund and the World Bank so that the fi­nancial crisis that has engulfed Mexico can be better dealt with in the future. 
Late Thursday, the IMF's 24­member executive board ap­proved a $17.8 billion support package that includes $7.8 bil­lion available immediately in the form of loans to Mexico. The other $10 billion will come from the IMF and contributions from medium-sized countries including Latin American neighbors of Mexico. 
IMF Managing Director Michel Camdessus dismissed reports that the money was ap­proved over vigorous com­plaints from France and Ger­many that the package for Mexico -largest in IMF history -threatened IMF support for Russian and Eastern Europe. 
Two Convenient Locations Close to Campus! 
South Bend -University Commons 
(across from University Park Mall)
10 BooTUS (accelerate
I + I n andprotect) 1 Phone 272-7653 I I Mishawaka-Grape and McKinley 
(located nearKmart)

I FOR ONLY $50 I 
Phone 256-9656
L---------------~ 
1995-96 Financial Aid Deadline 
FAF & Renewal FAFSA Applications must be received by the processing centers on or before the dates listed below: 
NO SMC 
Feb.28,1995 March 1 , 1995 
If additional information or application materials are needed, contact your financial aid office. 





Receeding floods threaten ancient structures 

A WEEKEND 
RETREAT EXPERIENCE GUIDED BY STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF 
,_--.. .,,__, ,_..,_,­
All---·.. --.... -.... -­
_......,._Cholol, ---oiCIIrlol..
_.....,.1114_ 
RETREAT 

MARCH 3 -5, 1995
DATES: · 

FORMS AVAILABLE: February 6 -10 
•SIGN UP 

February 10-4:00 p.m.
DEADLINE: 

CONTACT: Campus Ministry Office 103 Hesburgh Library 
631-7800 
COST: $25.00 

Colloquy 
continued from page 4 
like to be able to meet the financial need of every ac­cepted student, he said. 
Funding, will of course, drive all these projects. Malloy said the university needs to raise $700,000 a day, excluding weekends, to meet the agenda it has set. "Of course we're not raising that daily, but we are having a good response from our benefactors," said Malloy. 
Compared to the last two fund drives at Notre Dame, Malloy thinks the Colloquy is driven to a greater extent by a concern for people and pro­grams. He hopes that consid­ered rationale will persuade potential donors to give. 
Despite the enormity of The Colloquy's vision, despite the massive projects it endeavors to spawn, despite the chal­lenges the university will face, Malloy thinks the agenda of the report will come to fruition. 
"What you see in that docu­ment, I really believe will be largely in place in the time frame that's suggested." 
(..(..(..(..(,(..(..(..(.,(,(, 

NASA 
continued from page 1 
to Notre Dame professor Albert Zahm, who pioneered early theories of manned light. 
Today's flight is Wetherbee's third mission during which he will fly the craft to within 35 feet of the Russian orbiting Mir space station. This will occur three days into the eight day flight. The shuttle briefly will hover there and then back away and fly around Mir, allowing the astronauts to photograph the station. 
Wetherbee, a native of New York state, received his bache­lor's degree in aerospace engi­neering in 197 4. A year later he received his U.S. Navy com­mission and was designated a naval aviator in 1976. 
He trained at the naval test pilot school in 1981, was selected as an astronaut candi­date in 1984 and became an astronaut in 1985. He has logged more than 497 hours in space. He and his wife Robin have two daughters. 


THE VOICE0 Of fAITH 
GOSPEL CONCERT 
Celebrating the power 
of God 
•


tn song 
SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 5 8:00P.M. 
BASILICA OF THE SACRED HEART 
ALL WELCOME! 
• 
By RAF CASERT 
Associated Press 
TIEL, Netherlands 

Flooded rivers subsided Thursday but a new enemy gnawed at the weakened, an­cient structures that keep much of this country dry: swift cur­rents that threatened to gouge the dikes. 
The latest problem is not high water, but the speed with which river levels are dropping in the southeastern Netherlands. 
"It's a real danger," regional Dikemaster Jan Boer told re­porters. "When the waters decline, when the pressure dis­appears, there's a chance dikes will begin to float and shift. The whole dike can be torn open." 
Evacuated areas in the Gelderland and Limburg provinces remained off-limits to the public Thursday. Mayor Ed d'Hondt of Nijmegen, the largest city in the region, said the area's 250,000 residents who fled would not be able to return to their homes until at least Saturday. 
With tens of thousands of homes empty, police are in­creasingly concerned about looting. A few instances have already been reported. 
The level of the Waal River continued to sink, but officials cautioned that the crisis was not over until 300 miles of dikes were out of danger. 
The Dutch are bearing the brunt of last week's storms and flooding across northwestern Europe that was caused by a combination of heavy Alpine snows, early melting and heavy rains. At least 29 people have died as a result. 
For the second day, Queen Beatrix, 57, toured the stricken areas, chatting with soldiers who shored up a crumbling section of dike along the Waal River in the town of Ochten. 

THE FOLLOWING IS A LIST OF ALL FIRST ROUND GAMES FOR ALL LATE NIGHT OLYMPIC TEAMS. TIMES FOR FURTHER GAMES WILL BE DETERMINED AT THE END OF THE FIRST ROUND. 

CA V ANAUGH/ALUMNIIMC CANDLESS BP/STANFORD/REGINNAUGUSTA Volleyball Team A 8:00 Table Top Pent. Team A 10:00 Volleyball TeamA 9:00 Table Top Pent. Team A 10:30 Team B 9:30 Team B 10:30 Team B 8:30 Team B 11:00 Men's Basketball 9:00 Men's Broomball 12:15 Men's Basketball 9:20 Men's Broomball 8:00 Women's Basketball 9:00 Women's Broomball 8:00 Women's Basketball ·9:00 Women's Broomball 12:15 AM Nerf Football Team A 8:00 Kickball TeamA 11:40 Nerf Football TeamA 8:00 Kickball Team A 9:40 Team B 11:00 Team B 9:00 Team B 8:30 Team B 10:20 Target Golf Team A 9:30 WiffieBall TeamA 8:00 Target Golf Team A 10:00 Wiffie Ball Team A 8:00 Team B 9:15 Team B 10:15 Team B N/A Team B 9:30 Kayaking 9:30 Monster Dodgeball 12:00AM Kayaking 9:45 Monster Dodgeball 12:00 AM Women's Soccer Team A 9:00 Men's Soccer TeamA 8:30 Women's Soccer TeamA 11:30 Men's Soccer Team A 8:30 Team B N/A Team B 10:30 Team B 9:00 Team B 11:00 Ult RecSports Chg Team A 10:45 Inner. W-Polo TeamA 8:00 Ult RecSports Chg Team A 10:00 Inner. W-Polo Team A 8:30 Team B 11:30 Team B N/A Team B 10:15 Team B 11:00 Men's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 Women Racquetball CALL 1-6100 Men's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 Women Racquetball CALL 1-6100 
SORIN/WALSH FISHER/PANGBORN 
Volleyball Team A 8:30 Table Top Pent. Team A 10:30 Volleyball Team A 8:30 Table Top Pent. Team A N/A Team B 9:30 Team B 11:00 Team B 8:00 TeamB N/AMen's Basketball 9:40 Men's Broomball 9:15 
Men's Basketball 9:20 Men's Broom ball 8:50 Women's Basketball 9:40 Women's Broomball 8:50 
Women's Basketball 9:00 Women's Broomball 8:00 Nerf Football Team A 10:45 Kickball Team A 12:40 AM 
Nerf Football Team A 10:30 Kickball Team A 9:20 Team B 11:45 Team B 9:20 
Team B N/A TeamB N/A Target Golf Team A 9:45 Wiffie Ball Team A 8:30 Target Golf Team A N/A WiffieBall Team A N/ATeam B 10:15 Team B 10:00 
Team B N/A TeamB N/A Kayaking 10:30 Monster Dodgeball 12:00 AM Kayaking 9:15 Monster Dodgeball 12:00AM Women's Soccer Team A 12:00 AM Men's Soccer Team A 10:00 Women's Soccer Team A N/A Men's Soccer Team A 9:30 Team B 10:30 Team B 12:00 
Team B N/A TeamB 11:00 Ult RecSports Chg Team A 11:00 Inner. W-Polo Team A 9:30 Ult RecSports Chg Team A N/A Inner. W-Polo Team A 8:00 Team B 10:30 Team B 11:30 
Team B N/A TeamB 10:30 Men's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 Women Racquetball CALL 1-6100 Men's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 Women's Racquetball N/A 
ZAHM/FARLEY 
MBA'S Men's Broomball 8:00 
Volleyball Team A 8:30 Table Top Pent. Team A 10:00 
Team B 9:00 Team B N/A Men's Basketball 9:40 Nerf Football Team A 11:00 OFF-CAMPUS Women's Basketball 9:20 Team B N/A 
WiffieBall 8:45
Men's Broomball 8:25 Monster Dodgeball 12:00 AM Kayaking 10:15 Men's Soccer Team A 8:00 Inner. W-Polo Team A 9:30 Team B N/A Team B N/A Men's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 Women Racquetball CALL 1-6100 
BADIN/DILLON/LE MANS PE/GRACEIKNOTT 
Volleyball Team A 9:00 Table Top Pent. Team A 10:00 Volleyball TeamA 8:00 Table Top Pent. Team A 10:00 Team B TeamB
TeamB 8:00 N/A Men's Basketball 9:00 Men's Broomball 12:45 AM 
TeamB 10:00 N/A 
Men's Basketball 9:00 Men's Broomball 9:15 Women's Basketball 9:20 Women's Broomball 8:50 
Women's Basketball 10:00 Women's Broomball 9:15 Nerf Football Team A 8:15 Kickball Team A 12:20 
Nerf Football TeamA 11:00 Kickball Team A 11:40 Team B 8:45 Team B 11:20
Team B 11:15 Team B 9:00 Target Golf TeamA 9:00 Wiffie Ball Team A 8:15 Target Golf Team A N/A WiffieBall TeamA 8:45 Team B N/A Team B 10:15
Team B 10:00 Team B 9:45 Kayaking N/A Monster Dodgeball 12:00 AM Kayaking 9:00 Monster Dodgeball 12:00AM Women's Soccer TeamA 9:30 Men's Soccer Team A 9:00 
Women's Soccer Team A 12:30 Men's Soccer Team A 8:00 Team B N/A Team B 8:30 
Team B 11:00 Team B 12:00 Inner. W-Polo TeamA 10:30
Ult RecSports Chg Team A 10:00 Inner. W-Polo Team A 9:00 Ult RecSports Chg Team A N/A 
Team B N/A Team B 11:30
Team B 10:15 Team B N/A Men's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 Women Racquetball CALL 1-6100 
Men's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 Women Racquetball CALL 1-6100 
MORRISSEY/LYONS/HOLY CROSS ST. ED'S/LEWIS Volleyball TeamA 8:00 Table Top Pent. Team A 10:30 
Volleyball Team A 8:00 Table Top Pent. Team A 10:00 
Team B 8:30 Team B 11:00 
Team B 9:30 Team B 11:00 Men's Basketball 9:40 Men's Broomball 1:45 Men's Basketball 9:00 Men's Broomball 8:50 Women's Basketball 9:40 Women's Broomball 9:15 Women's Basketball 9:20 Women's Broomball 12:45 
Nerf Football Team A 10:45 Kickball Team A 12:40 NerfFootball Team A 8:15 Kickball Team A 12:00 
Team B 11:45 Team B 11:20 
Team B 8:30 TeamB 10:20 
Target Golf TeamA 9:30 WiffieBall Team A 9:45 Target Golf Team A 9:15 WiffieBall Team A 9:15 
Team B N/A Team B N/ATeam B N/A Team B 9:30 
Kayaking 10:45 Monster Dodgeball 12:00AM Kayaking N/A Monster Dodgeball 12:00 AM 
Women's Soccer TeamA 12:30 Men's Soccer Team A 8:00 Women's Soccer Team A 9:30 Men's Soccer Team A 9:30 
Team B 11:00 Team B N/ATeam B N/A Team B 11:30 
Ult RecSports Chg Team A 10:45 Inner. W-Polo Team A 10:00 Vlt RecSports Chg Team A 11:15 Inner. W-Polo TeamA N/A 
Team B 10:30 Team B N/ATeam B N/A Team B N/A 
Men's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 Women Racquetball CALL 1-6100 Men's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 Women Racquetball CALL 1-6100 
CARROLL/HOWARD/KEENAN PW /FLANNER/SIEGFRIED Volleyball Team A 8:30 Table Top Pent. Team A 10:00
Volleyball Team A 10:00 Table Top Pent. . Team A 10:30 
TeamB 9:00 Team B 11:00Team B 9:30 Team B 11:00 Men's Basketball 10:00 Men's Broomball 1:15AMMen's Basketball 10:00 Men's Broomball 8:25 Women's Basketball 9:00 Women's Broom ball 8:25Women's Basketball 9:20 Women's Broomball 8:25 
Nerf Football Team A 10:45 Kickball Team A 10:00Nerf Football Team A 11:00 Kickball Team A 10:00 
TeamB 11:30 Team B 10:40Team B 8:45 Team B 11:00 
Target Golf Team A 9:00 Wiffie Ball Team A 8:30Target Golf Team A N/A Wiffie Ball Team A 8:15 
TeamB N/A Team B N/ATeam B N/A Team 8 10:00 
Kayaking 10:00 Monster Dodgeball 12:00 AM Kayaking N/A Monster Dodgeball 12:00 AM 
Women's Soccer TeamA 11:30 Men's Soccer Team A 8:00Women's Soccer Team A 12:00 Men's Soccer Team A 10:00 
Team B 10:00 Team B 8:30Team B 10:30 Team B N/A 
Ult RecSports Chg Team A N/A Inner. W-Polo Team A 9:00Vlt RecSports Chg Team A N/A Inner. W-Polo Team A N/A 
Team B N/A Team B 11:00Team B N/A Team B N/A 
Men's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 Women Racquetball CALL 1-6100 Men's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 Women Racquetball CALL 1-6100 







VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Friday, February 13, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 

Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................••. George Dohrmann Production Manager .......•.......... Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......•.................. Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............•...........•... Sean Gallavan Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Elizabeth Regan Controller ..................................... Kristen Mattina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Maty's College. It does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commenwies, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is "available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor /Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 

• DISPElliNG MYTHS 
"I know I'm not going to live forever, and neither are you, but until my fur­lough on earth is revoked, I should like to elbow aside the established pieties and raise my martini glass in salute to the mortal arts of pleasure ... Specifically, drinking, smoking, and screwing." 
-Bob Shacochis 

I awoke shivering, curled tightly in the fetal position, wearing only a pair of socks and a blue polyester vest bearing a patch which read Pabst Blue Ribbon. I felt so physically weak that I was certain my body had aged sixty years overnight. 

OJ 
Sarafa 
Agonizing from a dull, ubiquitous pain, my body begged to be rehydrated. I hastily gulped the glass of water placed strategically at my bedside the night before. 
"Jesus, what the hell happened to you," my roommate Pol vi said in an inculpable tone. 
Of course, he knew exactly what hap­pened. He and several of my friends took me out the Landshark Bar the pre­vious night to bid me farewell and wish me good luck in law school. 
The Landshark houses East Lansing's most potent alco.holic beverage, known as the "shark bowl", which several friends may drink simultaneously through straws in a somewhat racy fashion. 
"You know damn well what hap­pened," I said referring to the shark bowls and shots I perfunctorily con­sumed during the evening. "What a night", I said to Polvi who smiled devil­ishly knowing he was at least partially responsible for my hangover, "what a night". 
The "night" was not unlike most that summer-spent in a euphoric stupor, gregariously surrounded by a close knit group of friends engaging in intemper­ance and camaraderie. I will remem­ber the summer as one in which I lived free, and carefree, without consequence. The summer, as well as my graduate life, culminated in that unforgettable night. 
That morning I left for law school, and the next four months of my life were devoid of the hedonistic endeavors that made my undergraduate education so enjoyable. I miss my undergraduate years. 
This article attempts to dispel the most common. myth among undergraduate students; namely, that life is somehow better in the "real world". So many undergraduates "cannot wait to get out" and are "sick and tired of school". 
My fledgling friends, if these procla­mations are indeed true you are not liv­ing you undergraduate life correctly. You ought to be Jiving with reckless abandon in a daring attempt to enjoy the sublime vices (smoking, drinking, and screwing) alluded to in the above quotation by libertine author Bob Shacochis. 
Warning: The Surgeon General, you parents, the church, and society at large have found that such activities are harmful to you health and to your moral fabric. 
They do not realize, or possibly they have forgotten, how precious an under­graduate "education" is. Of course, even a grown up would admit your "education" goes far beyond the class­room. College gives you the opportunity to learn about life; for the first time you have to wake yourself up the morning, write checks, buy light bulbs and deal with other such mundane tasks. But the responsibility does not overwhelm you. Undergraduates students are young enough to be free from major responsi­bility and old enough to engage in (and appreciate) the most satisfying vices. 
Of course, this unique combination only exists in the undergraduate seg­ment of the population. Consider for example an infant; an infant is com­pletely free from responsibility, but does not possess the mental capacity to appreciate that freedom. 
Or take, as a converse example, a twenty-two year old law student who can appreciate the worth of vice, but willingly shoulders a responsibility which deprives him of the time and energy to engage in vice-like activities. 
Just because you can engage in this vice, does that mean you should? This complex question has a very simple answer. You ought to engage in precise­ly those activities which you desire. Too many undergraduates subscribe to con­straints placed on them by people attempting to impose their morals on others. When you concede to the moral­istic crap handed to you by those peo­ple-when you let others dictate what you should and should not do-you waste the only time in you life in which you have the option to live without con­straints. 
If your ideal lifestyle includes engag­ing in drinking, smoking, and screwing with reckless abandon, then you best do those things at the time in your life dur­ing which you have the least responsibil­ity, and the most energy. "Vice after all, is not wholly without virtue and, like virtue, must sometimes settle for being its own reward" (Shacochis.) 
At least one exemplar at this Catholic university subscribes to such thinking. This university possesses at its cultural core a group of people who invented heavy drinking: The Irish. Why do you think our irishman is "fighting" ... because he is a boxer? Of course not. He strikes that machismo "put your dukes up" pose because he is "beer muscling", too stinking drunk to know he should not be fighting. My advice: while your here, live like the lep­rechaun. 
Sarafa is a second year law student. 
GARRY TRUDEAU

• DOONESBURY 
tvHY /?0 I /XJ 17f tuHAT 

NO, IT'5 A /...ITTte 50M&­
/?RJVCS M& 7lJ&Xaii..£NC& 

711/N(i t:IIUI5I? 711/3 R/?5T
IN8ROAWA'3TJa/RNAU5M? 

AM&NI?MCNT.' R<£JM HUE. 
1'3/T 7H&MON&Y? 7H& GLAM­

70fJ/31RUT70t.A., !THAIJN7'3 
(}(Jf?.~ 711~Pf3RKS? 

M&, fT 5771?5 MY etaJ!J.1 
/ 

1HATS tvHYI'MHE3/?E.' 
• QUOTE Of THE DAY 
"What a wonderful life I had! I only wish I had realized it sooner!" 
-Sidonie Colette French Novelist 



VIEWPOINT
Friday, February 3, 1995 page 11 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Community voices support for gays 
Dear Editor: 
Although the administration has chosen the unsurprising cop-out of hiding behind bureau­cracy to enforce its anti-gay/lesbian policy, the current action taken to deny the university's gay and lesbian students a meeting place smacks of out-dated religious ideology. This issue can no longer be treated merely in terms of religious values; the issue here is a fundamental denial of the rights that all individuals possess as human beings. By failing to recognize the gay and les­bian student organization on campus, the admin­istration perpetuates the misconception that a person is defined by a sole feature: sexuality. This same notion is equivalent to the legal dis­crimination that existed against minorities based solely on their ethnicity. While most of these legal obstructions have been removed for ethnic minorities, the homosexual minority still endures the dehumanizing effects of such ignorance and misunderstanding. 
In case the administration has not noticed, there are many areas of inter-student relations which still demand addressing and for which many students need the support that can only be received from peers who understand the hard­ships of life in an environment where one's very existence is misunderstood (or even condemned). llow would individuals of a non-white heritage be able to deal with the shock of coming to a uni­versity where a majority of the student popula­tion barely knows how to interact with individu­als of a non-white ethnic heritage, were it not for the support groups organized and run by the minority students who best understand the type of support that is needed? A gay and lesbian organization in any university is as essential a support group as are ethnic organizations, not only because homosexuals also comprise a minority group, but because gays and lesbians are still denied much of their dignity as humans-especially here at Notre Dame. 
The policy supposedly being upheld by the administration concerns the denial of advertising by officially unrecognized organizations of their meeting locations and times. How can gay and lesbian students lind the support they may need without sacrificing their own confidentiality, pri­vacy, or safety if they don't advertise when and where students ean seek such help. Perhaps in a real university environment, where sexuality was not an issue which provoked insults and condem­nation from stud(Jnts and administration alike, homosexual students could be more open about their own sexuality, and thus about organizing meetings. However, since this is certainly not the case at Notre Dame, gays and lesbians are forced to make known the support that is avail­able in a manner that will be seen, and yet will still protect the individual who wishes to attend a meeting. Hence, the advertisement. 
The administration pointed out that although homosexual students could not organize their own meetings in the health center, they could still seek counseling there. Again, it seems that a fundamental lack of understanding has caused those with the power to shape university poliey to miss the point. Perhaps the counselors in the health center may be able to help somewhat, but it would appear that a student coming to terms with his or her homosexuality needs the support of individuals whose personal experiences deem them better prepared to help. 
In a school supposedly built upon humanitarian values, the administration's actions are again proving this notion hollow. If this school is ever to enter the realm of the true university, it must first wake up to the reality of life outside the fan­tasy land that exists here, and realize that the adherence to out-dated modes of thought can only become more destructive. The most basic dignity that all individuals deserve as humans must be respected-whatever their individual differences may be. The university should be a place of coming to understandings about people different than yourself, not merely one of rein­forcing potentially destructive ideologies. 
Finally, we, as students here (this includes teachers, as well) have the responsibility of voic­ing our support for our fellow students, whose basic human dignity is denied by this school. One of the reasons that anti-gay/lesbian policies may continue to exist here is because not enough of the university's population (whether homosex­ual, bi-sexual, or heterosexual) voice their oppo­sition to the backward attitudes and administra­tive actions which perpetuate a destructive envi­ronment here for homosexuals. Nothing will change here unless we make it change. 
ROBERTO M. GUERRA RACHEL CAIDOR EMILY DAVIS AMY VOSBURG LAEL TYLER Notre Dame Students 
Editor's Note: In addition to the names noted above, this letter to the editor was accompanied by approximately seventy signatures. 
Organizations dispute 

presidential proposals 
World Hunger Coalition misrepresented 
Dear Editor 
Alex Montoya and George Fischer promise to establish a "Breakfast Fast" to help the World Hunger Coalition raise money There are three problems with their promise. The first is that it is impossible to have a breakfast fast. The second is that Mr. Montoya and Mr. Fischer misrepresented the use of the money by the World Hunger Coalition. The last is that the World Hunger Coalition did not approve the use of the use of its goals in their campaign. 
The World Hunger Coalition sponsors the Wednesday Lunchfast each semester. We cannot do a breakfast fast because the dining hall budget accounts for the fact that only a small proportion of the student population eats breakfast. Thus, they do not save money if people skip that meal. Lunch statistics are different and if students skip their lunch, the din­ing hall saves money that can go to our club. 
Mr Montoya and Mr. Fischer misrepresented the use of Lunchfast funds. Lunchfast money is donated to grassroots international hunger organizations, not "surrounding neigh­borhoods" as the campaign posters claim. 
Mr. Montoya and Mr. Fischer contacted me about a breakfast fast and I explained the obstacles to them. They claim that student government would have enough influence to organize a breakfast fast and chose to publicize that goal. They used our club name without our approval. Such actions are irre­sponsible. If Mr. Montoya and Mr. Fischer wish to help the hungry, they should encourage participation in the Lunchfast. They should not publish shallow promises about an "easy way" to help. 
AMY CARROLL 
President 
World Hunger Coalition 


K of C neutral in upcoming elections 
Dear Editor: Fraternal Service 
This letter is written to Organization, we do not feel explain an unfortunate mis­that it is our place to partici­understanding that has pate in the partisan politics of arisen. The Knights of campus elections. We would Columbus Notre Dame hope that in the future, our Council, while being men­name and reputation for ser­tioned on a campaign poster vice to others is not used for for the upcoming Student any advertisement without Body Election, is not support­our prior consent. ing any candidacy nor have we accepted the proposal any JOSEPH FINNERTY further than to consider it Grand Knight when more details have been Notre Dame Council 1477 supplied. As a Catholic 






Politics are politics~-no matter who's in charge 
For those who thought the Republican sweep of Congress changed politics as usual, think again. Granted, the politi­cal philosophy of the government's role 
Gary Caruso 
in American lives 
has changed. Hepublicans want smaller government and believe that businesses should con­trol their own destiny. 
On the other hand, Democrats believe that government has a place in our soci­ety for those who cannot control their own destinies. Democrats also believe that the government is necessary to check the greed of businesses that inherently place profit over ethics. 
These differences in philosophies are so diametrically opposed that the major parties rarely agree on most issued in a bipartisan manner. Thus, the control of Congress is so important. 
Republicans successfully painted gov­ernment as intrusive during the last campaign. They vilified big government, professional politicians, and the perks of Congress like Congressional exemption of most labor laws. Yet in the closing days of the 1994 session, Senate Hepublicans obstructed the passage of legislation that placed Congressional employees under the same laws that governed the private sector as well as the executive branch employees. 
This week House Speaker Newt Gingrich and Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole proudly showed how different they were from last year's Demo­cratically-controlled Congress by pass­ing the labor law legislation they killed last year. But as the Republican-con­trolled session progresses, the American public will eventually see that it does not matter who is in the majority. Politics is politics just as football is football. 
Gingrich attempted to frustrate the Democratic majority at every turn in the political process when he was part of the minority. Now that he obtained his coup of the Capitol, he cries "foul" every time the new Democratic minority uses his exact same tactics. 
Case in point occurred also this past week. Rep. Meek from Florida made a speech questioning Gingrich's $4.5 mil­lion book advance deal with a Rupert Murdock publishing company. Since Murdock has pending business before the government regarding his many television station holdings, the meeting between Murdock and Gingrich prior to the advance seems questionable. 
Meek used the same tactics that Gingrich had used six years ago against former Speaker Jim Wright. At that time Gingrich was successful in forcing Wright to resign because Wright's book deal violated House rules. Rather than let Meek's speech continue, Rep. Bob Walker asked the House to delete Meek's remarks from the official record. The Republican majority ruled that no representative could speak about the personal matters of the Speaker. That decision resulted in a two hour debate on Wednesday. 
ABC Nightly News reported the debate and the several roll call votes demanded by Democrats, then added a side com­ment at the end of their report. They said that the two hours of debate and extra roll call votes were at the expense of the taxpayers. Maybe ABC should research the cost to the taxpayers of Bob Walker's thousand of quorum requests over the years to slow the Democrat's legislative agenda. They would find that each unnecessary vote costs over $25,000 in staff salaries and Congressional Record printing expense-not to mention the electric bill. 
It is further interesting that Bob Walker has been a Republican Congressman for 20 years, yet he would never dream of calling himself a pro­fessional politician. Maybe he justifies his nonprofessional status since he was a minority member during that time. He is just one of the many Republicans who are backing off of the term limits legisla­tion requiring a service period of six years in favor of one favoring twelve years. 
Regarding internal House term limits, even the nasty and negative Newt Gingrich of old has limited his own com­mittee chairs to six years and his Speakership to eight. If one reads between the lines, the reasons are then obvious. Limited chairs give the Speaker enormous power. The Democrats could not pass many Clinton proposals because the old guard chairs like Rostenkowski. Dingel and Brooks carved out their own power niches and demanded their way, or no way. Six years pales in comparison to twenty as a chair of a full committee. 
Looking at the history of House Speakers, one will find that only Tip O'Neill at ten years held the post longer than all other modern day Speakers. As an old timer once told me, "Speakers leave after eight years or so because there is always someone nipping at their heels wanting his place in history." Of course for us optimistic· Democrats, maybe Gingrich ligures the Republicans will be out before the entire eight years anyway. 
Lastly, the ultimate in political stories happened during the first week of the Republican regime. Senate Majority Whip Trent Lott (Republican from Mississippi) sent a letter to the Commerce Department warning that part of the Clinton downsizing of govern­ment should not occur in offices slated to be closed in his state. He suggested that California (and other states coinci­dentally with two Democratic senators) should suffer the staff reductions. It seems that he thinks that his pork is not really pork. 
Maybe President Clinton should con­tinue his government reductions only in republican districts. Then he may fi­nally receive the recognition he deserves for his efforts. More importantly, the American public may realize that the parties may change, but Capitol Hill will not. Congress really was not as bad as the "Newt Crew" portrayed it last year. 
Gary J. Caruso. Notre Dame '73. has worked in Washington. D.C. at the U.S. House of Representatives for two Congressmen and two House Committees. He is currently a ·Displaced Democrat• seeking a new position. His column appears every other Friday. 


SKS ••• 

What's the most interesting care package you've ever gotten? 

'I got a care package from my grandfather with a bottle of whiskey in it. Since I'm not 21, I of course sent it back with a thank-you note.' 
K.C. Bresnahan 
B.P. Freshman 
'My mom always sends me these little candies that make my mouth minty fresh.' 
Bryce Seki Fisher Freshman 


'My parents send me '!-don't­care packages' of shredded sty­rofoam and shards of glass.' 
Traumatized student, wishes to remain anonymous 

'My best friend sent me a care 
package with condoms! in it. My 
roommate got in trouble with 
her parents when they visited 
because they thought they were 
hers.' 
Kathleen McCann 
P.E. Freshman 


'I always look forward to food and money... especially the money.' 
Gary Zehrbach Fisher Freshman 

By TONY POTTINGER 
Accent Writer 
I
t's been a bad week. You've failed your Accounting midterm. You forgot about that ten page paper. Your dog died, and you 
can't be home for the funeral. Within five days, you've figured out that you have 100 pages to write in a language that is not your mother tongue. You're tired. You're lonely. You're cranky. You're overwhelmed. And there is no end in sight. 
But wait. The United States Post Office, regard­less of that rate hike, might just come through for you. A little whining, a little gnashing of the teeth, even a tear or two have virtually guaran­teed that Great-Aunt Edna and all the little cousins will be rolling their pennies and sending them straight to you. Mom and Dad are pulling for you, heck, they're even including a lock of Puppy's hair in the care package that should be arriving anytime this week. Mom's hinted at the contents...the new "Rolling Stone," the latest National Enquirer, and something she's promised that you'll love. Pez, you think. Pez. A new Pez dispenser. That would be great. That would really make your day. 
Amidst a hell-week or during semester finals, a student's salvation and a dorm mail clerk's nightmare lies in an avalanche of small boxes stamped "Two Days, Two Pounds, $2. 90." They are care packages, and for many students, they offer a much needed boost of morale and calo­ries when the doldrums of studying and the South Bend winter set in. 
A recent poll of 100 Notre Dame students shed some light on just exactly what students want­and don't want-to get in their precious parental parcels. Responses among males and females were quite similar. The runaway favorite was money, followed by candy and sweets. Cookies took the bronze. 
There was something to be said about the dif­ferences in the male and female responses. Women students ranked fruit and pictures from home far ahead of the their male counterparts. In fact, fruit was one of items most often thrown or given away by male respondents to the sur­vey. For women, the favorite item in a care pack­age were things such as gag gifts, stuffed ani­mals, and toys. Male students preferred money, candy, and cookies 
Glenn Gannon, a Stanford Hall junior, explained the perils of sending a guy fruit in his care package. "My brother Jim (a 1992 ND grad) got a bunch of tomatoes from our mom. They were rotten so he ended up using them to throw at a group who was protesting "The Last Temptation of Christ" at the Snite Theater." Another unpopular item for guys was under­wear, particularly of the "tighty-whitey" variety. 
Many respondents shared some of their care 



$2.90 

Care Packages, The U.S. Post Office, and You 

est freshman wished to remain anonymous. "Along with a bunch of homemade turkey-jerkey. I got an electric 'vibrating sponge.' It was so embar­rassing." A nameless Breen-Phillips resident has yet to live down the contents of a recent pack­age. She confessed, "It was a Victoria Secret push-up bra. With it was a note from my mom suggesting I try this for the next dance."' 
Junior Amanda Bruntrager is a bit apprehen­sive about the packages she'll be getting in the coming weeks. "My mom once sent me a Valentine's Day care package. There was a blow­up life preserver with arms and lips. On it was written 'Hugs and Kisses.' Lots of humiliation," she said. 
Stanford Hall senior Chris Deasy was sent a wrapped salami. "It didn't matter that my mom sent it. The resulting jokes were obvious." 
Other unusual items indicated by respondents that went beyond the ordinary cookies-Ramen noodles-razors package were birth control devices (8%) and alcoholic beverages (9%). Tucked in one Siegfried resident's care package was a notice of probation which had been sent to her parents' house. 
If nothing else, the poll revealed an immense disdain for the so-called "Energy Kits" which parents pay to have sent to their sons and daughters through the University. 16% consid­ered them the worst care package they had ever gotten. Overall, only bills were more disliked as something to get in a care package. 
Two days later, it arrives. The care package, the moment you've been waiting for. You cross your fingers, praying silently for that Pez dis­penser. With refills. You open it. You pause. You lift out your new copy of the National Enquirer and a lock of Puppy's hair bound with a fresh pink ribbon. No Pez dispenser yet, but wait, what's that? Maybe it's in there you think, remembering mom's promise that this would be the care package of all care packages. 
Two days, two pounds, and two minutes later, you've discovered that mom and you are on dif­ferent frequencies. Underneath the latest O.J. scandal sheets was a big jar of jelly bean vita­mins and a bottle of Vivarin. A student energy pack. 


The Observer/ Brandon Candura 

Dave Sullivan, busy at work as Fisher Hall Mail Clerk, gets ready to deliver those care packages. 
Mosl Popular Care Package llems: Males 
1. 
Money 

2. 
Candy 


3. Cookies 4. Newspaper Clippil18s 5. Popcorn 

Most Popular Care Package Items: females 
1. Toys. 8ag 8ifts. stuffed animals 
2. 
Money 

3. 
Cookies 

4. 
fruit 


Least Popular Care Package Items Males 
1. Bills 

2. fruit 3. 6tudent Ener8Y Kits 4. Underwear 
Least Popular Care Package Items females 
1.6tudent Ener8Y Kits 
2. feminine Products 
3. 
Bills 

4. 
fruit 



----~-----~--­
Just like Cannes, better than Keenan 
Student Film Festival showcases collegiate talent, attempts to say that which has never been said before 

Photo courtesy of Student Flm Festival 
"The School," directed by Fred Dini, is one of many films playing this weekend at the Student Film Festival at the Snite 
Annenberg Auditorium. 
By MARGEE HUSEMANN Accem Writer 
W
at's just like Cannes except without all those 
nnoying movie stars? What is, as one direc­

or noted, "better than Keenan Revue?" Yes, it's the Student Film Festival this Friday and Saturday Night at The Snite Annenberg Auditorium. Several films from the intermediate and advanced film classes will be featured in the festival. Each film is about five to ten minutes long, and the subjects span a wide variety of topics from the humorous to the sublime. 
'Art is meant to open up cracks and force new holes in culture to make space for what's new.' 
-Jill Godmilow 

While the topics are very diverse, they are also very poignant. Jill Godmilow, the professor who teaches the film dasses, emphasizes in class that the works must be original and "not dependent on a tiny cultural move­ment." Godmilow tells her students that they must "make a film which will play in the Berlin Film Festival." She went on to say, "Art is meant to open up cracks and force new holes in culture to make space for what's new." Consequently, film, as a form of art, should "rep­resent life but show the borders of society." 
By insisting only that the films not be shot in a dorm room, Godmilow forces her students to "move into the universe" and "walk through the cracks" which their work attempts to make. Because of this attempt to broaden the scope to what is beyond something that is exclusively Notre Dame, "All the films are experimental in a sense; all have something to say that hasn't been said before." 

In the film "Pop Loser," directed by Justin Mitchell and written by Jennifer Earls, two women exact revenge on a compulsive purse snatcher. While Mitchell said that he couldn't relate well to the topic, he noted that the film definitely had a message: "Women, you don't have to stand by and take it; you can take action." The interac­tion of the actors and the accompanying music, as well as the bizarre plot, all combine to create a subtly ironic piece. For Mitchell, the most exciting part of the filming was "coming up with ideas and images beforehand and then seeing the storyboards come back as film." About the finished content of the film and its humor. Mitchell commented, "People want to laugh but there is only an outlet to laugh a couple of times." 
Fred Dini, director of "The School," created a similar atmosphere in his film. Based on a short story by Frederick Barthelme, the story line is humorous but bit­tersweet. A cast of fourth graders attempt to get their teacher to explain death to them. The film was shot in a local elementary school with 13 fourth grade students and Professor Valerie Sayer's husband playing the role of the teacher. Dini was pleased with the way the film­ing was done and said that when editing was involved, "It was a matter of picking what was best rather than cutting what didn't work." 
Overall, both directors seemed pleased with the final product and commented that they were surprised at how smoothly production itself ran. The only problems Mitchell mentioned regarding his filming was that the 
'Films are virtually nothing without an audience' 
-Justin Mitchell 
opening scenes had to be shot in LaSalle's Family Restaurant around all of the natural traffic of the day. Fred Dini noted as well that any difficulties in his production were generally a matter of convenience rather than technical. 
Ted Mandell is the assistant professional specialist who teaches the students how to use the equipment and who cleans up the final products. He remarked that the films are always very original each semester and that they have grown progressively more accomplished over the years. He emphasized that the students are always "finding new ways to use the technical apparatus to receive the desired effects." 
Commenting on the festival as a whole, everyone agreed that the films should be very impressive. Mitchell said, "It should be exciting; the films this semes­ter are overall very good." He further emphasized the need for an objective audience who will be able to relate to film and who will appreciate all the time and effort involved in making such works. He stated, "Films are virtually nothing without an audience." 

,_ 
~. ·. 

t7fl0 i tt411PM l'f\JO~Nf fii'lbM Jli'itlll 
WNI'f'l ANNINDIRO AUDI'f'ORIUM 
•IPM"4!\M 
I..A'T'i NJCiHT ObYMI"IC:I JACC ••• 'Of.tPM CbiAR • fi'IUIINT litANilft C"UIHIN§ AY~I'fOftiYM 

•IJt0PM~~'AMf!MU3AN 
IYFfAbou WAIIH;lNQ'fON MAbb 


•? @E ltl0f11M THI bi@N MIN§ C:Aftft@bb AYOI'fOftiUM, IAINT MAft¥~§
· .. :. "'·(""" .. 
>' 

'
'.' 
' 
t tO TO 4fi0JliM MAYO INVI'fATIONAl 
MEN'§ AN~ WOMIEN~§ TRACiiM bOI"'fY§ 
•· t?!f~O II ltlflifiMi'fY~eN'f l='lbM t='e§'fl . §Nile ANNIENDeft§ AYDI"fOfHYM 
tl i, 1Ot~@taM f3 beAft @f Pfte§eNl' 'li)AN€ift @Y§t-iiNe AYfWffJRIYM 
•Dt10~M HA.MeRHaAN ~YI"I"'Ab@'' WA§HIN§'f'QN HAbb t@f!M FbANNiR C@§t( RO@M lii'bANNER IA§!;M@N'f 
) -~.-----~ -. ·~ .. .....:-. ~ 
;....­
-~~~M eMtl\U'fiNi ftY'fbeDtle, Vl@bl§"f ill W1bblAM Ct;ftNV~ PtANI§T IN\l'i ,ANNINiifUi AYDI"fOftiYM 
•?PM I'RiN@t=t ftt:M t='li§l'IVAb uueffv !I~UI'3 CY§HINCI AY§I'fOftiYM 
tiPM VOIC.II 01" fi'AITH fiOIPII.. e.c;,N~i.-T IIAatl..tCA Ofi' THI IACfUUt t>IIAf.it'f 
-~..-'11,,, 
·.. ~-~-"\ "-' 
UNIViftll'fV filAftM W&ll' tUPI MAbL.) 
• NOIODY3a fi'OOL. 11 ..140, 7t 1I, 1140 tfilUI..JI I'IC.'fiON ll.l •IOYI ON THIIIOi 11•1, 41l110, 7100, 1&10 
•JIMMY UOVi l tiO, llJO, 11130, 7110, 1&10 UNIV~ftiiiTV f*A.ftK I.A8'T 

-
•HIQHift I..IAiiiNINC 11 31.1, lt411 11~0 
•LIGIND. Off THI tfA.L.L. t t30, 41 t I, 7t10~ .,•• 
•DUMa 
6 CUM8ift l, ttt~O, 7. It' I •HIQHL.ANDI:ft ~ 1140, 4Hl0, 71110, Ot.aO 

• 
MUADIEPt... 11T 1t41S. 4t.O, 7t40, 1Oi t 0 



~~ -~---------------------------~------~---·-----·---­





ACCENT
page 14 Friday, February 3, 1995 
The Roots grow their own hip...hop sound 
By ROB ADAMS Music Critic 
For new acts in the hip-hop world, paying homage to some of their favorite rap influences, whether stylistically or in the lyrics, is a commonplace occur­rence. However, it seems like a catch-22 because hip-hop is a musical genre in which musical originality is usually rewarded with credibility. The trick for the new rap act is to pay re­spects to their inspirations, and yet still show some originality. The Roots and their debut, Do You Want More?!, achieve both of these tasks with an ease that is unexplainable. 
Even though their debut al­bum has just been released, The Roots has existed in one form or another since 1987 when members B.R.O. the R.? and Black Thought began pounding on drums and pound­ing out lyrics, respectively. They knew each other from Philadelphia's High School for Creative and Performing Arts, made famous by Boyz II Men. 
Eventually Malik B. joined to help with the lyrical duties and Hub came on to take over the bass. No slick DJ beats appear in The Roots' sound; the drums sound real and they are real. With some guest support, they released Organix, an indepen­dent effort sold in Europe only, in 1993 and signed with DGC later in the year. 
Slight taps of organ meshed with saucy horns create the slow-motion vibe on the track, "Mellow My Man." Midway through, however, the beat sud­denly turns into a traditional jazz rhythm as Black Thought and Malik B. have no problem changing the vocal pace. 
A rhyme style and flow remi­niscent of Special Ed's is appar­ent on the track, "Proceed," while the music reminds of A Tribe Called Quest's Low End Theory days. The Roots have a way of making their hip-hop structure much more diverse than most rap acts· simply because they don't use a chorus just to fill up space. The lay­ered vocal harmonies on "Proceed" are an example of how they utilize the chorus as not only a break in between verses, but a way to express the song's vibe a bit more lavishly. 
The unexpected combination of low bass reverberations and bagpipes begin the strongest track on the disc, "Do You Want More?!" The title track then adds a breakbeat and has the potential to become a heavy rotation party jam if enough people were to hear it. 
"Wondering what I was do­ing at six/She was invitin' me to the flicks/I blew a kiss (click)/Now I'm in the shower/I'm in the bath in which I simmer for half an hour," is a choice rhyme collection about a phone conversation during a "Lazy Afternoon." Much like the title would suggest, this track is laid-back, easygoing funk about loungin', hangin' out, and just enjoying an after­noon, a great situation to pump The Roots. 

Other old school comparisons would include some of Biz Markie's rhymes and Doug E. Fresh's entertainment tech­nique which pervade the CD. Amazingly textured is the track "? vs. Rahzel" in which B.R.O. the R.? keeps the beat on while guest Rabzel goes off on the beat box providing interpreta­tions of instruments such as horns and bass. Although they do utilize a lot of old school styles, The Roots are continuing the evolution of the East Coast rhyme flow, as they also remind of artists like Joe Sinistr, Keith Murray, and Smif-n-Wessun. 
Other highlights of Do You Want More?! include "Datskat," a mixture of jazzy skat talk mixed with their nor­mal fresh lyrics as well as the vocal harmony in the back­ground of "Swept Away" which has a groove-oriented, Marvin Gaye feel to it. 
Although The Roots borrow from their hip-hop elders as well as some of the newer artists, make no mistake that their sound is completely their own. The Roots deserve re­spect as they managed to give some respect and still create a new vibe. 
The Roots-Do You Want More?! 
DGC 
4 STARS 

Notre Dame Student Players bring life to the stage 
By PATTI CARSON Student Players. It's an Accent Writer organization that is completely student run. The co-presi­
One actor practiced his voice dents, or co-organizers, as exercises. The director Susco and Michael Kersey demonstrated how the glass describe themselves, made an bottle should be broken on an­effort especially this year to other character's head before revive the group. moving on to other business. "Anyone in any major can The stage manager dimmed participate," Susco said. the lights as a crew measured The Notre Dame Student the stage, the steps, every­Players brought "A Night of thing. Candlelight Ghost Story Read­
The Washington Hall main­ings" to campus this year. stage has been buzzing these Members are also helping the past few days in preparation English department with its for David Mamet's "American production of The Widow Buffalo", under the direction of Ranter. They also hope to 
Stephen Susco. form a comedy group and pos­
The stage is filled with a sibly students will perform variety of random objects that "Jesus Christ Superstar" next arouse curiosity, including a year. hanging ski and a large arcade There's something for every­game. "Some of the scenery is one, especially this year, ac­from my apartment. Some is cording to the director. "The from Goodwill and a car junk number of people involved yard donated some things, with Notre Dame Student too," Susco said. Players this year stretching 
This weekend's production through April will be 40. by The Notre Dame Student That's only including the actu­Players is under direction by al performers. Really there senior Stephen Susco, a fan of are more. And it's not neces­David Mamet. "I wanted to sary to be a Communications bring Mamet's play to the stage or Theater major," he said. 
plan to burglarize a coin wanted to write it into a stage showed up for tryouts, for
because his plays are very Stephanie Calmeyn, stage
collector. The theme revolves play, but at the last minute, which Susco only had two or
real," Susco said. The entire manager for Susco's produc­
around the examination of the Mamet's agent said it wouldn't three days to advertise. Ca­
play consists of conversations tion, is a senior English and
bad side of American business. be possible," Susco said. vataio explained that he got
between the only three charac­Philosophy major. She has
Primarily through one of the out of his marketing group
ters in it. numerous responsibilities,
characters, Mamet uncovers American Buffalo worked out early one day and passed
"This work is particularly which include running the
his theme about capitalism and because of its talented cast. Dillon Hall where he saw the
challenging because the script show backstage and cueing
the American business ethic, Freshman Scott Paradine, who audition sign. So he decided to
contains few stage directions lines.
according to Susco. also performed this year in go back in and give it a shot­
and no monologues. Basically, Mamet's "American Buf­
Susco said that the themes Waiting for Godot, has a role in and he got the part. 
it's a dialogue," Susco said. falo,"under Susco's direction,
are entertaining, electrifying, Susco's production. The spot Heil auditioned for the part
This puts more pressure on will be performed this Thurs­
and tense. The play was writ­light is also shared by Junior because he heard about it from 
the three characters in the day, Friday, and Saturday at
ten in the mid 1970's, but its marketing major Joe Cavataio a friend and now it is Heil's
play, who have been practicing 8:10 p.m. in Washington Hall.
points are still valid today. and senior PLS major, Andrew dialogue that opens the play. 
since early December. The cost is $3. Viewers should 
"Originally I wanted to direct Heil. "It's not difficult to get in­
American Buffalo is the story expect adult themes and lan­
Mamet's House of Games. I Twenty people originally volved with the Notre Dame
of three lower class men who guage. 

-----~------------~----~ --------------~-----------------"1 
Friday, February 3, 1995 
The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
I 
I I I 
I I 
I I 
I 
I 
j 
• NBA BASKETBALL 
'Big Dog' rapidly improving after slow start 
By ARNIE STAPLETON 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE 

Everything was in place when Glenn Robinson made his NBA debut. Indoor fireworks and a fog machine. Laser lights and blaring music. There even a sound system special effect to go with his "Big Dog" nick­name. 
Trouble was, the ferocious snarl meant to resonate through the Bradley Center and usher in the Milwaukee Bucks' rise from rotten to reputable sounded nothing like a fierce, frothing junkyard dog. 
It seemed more like a friendly French poodle: 
The nation's top draft pick, Hobinson had some serious catching up to do after skipping training camp and the presea­son in a contract holdout. 
While the lawyers were putting final touches on the 10­year, $68 million pact, Bucks coach Mike Dunleavy grabbed Robinson and ambled over to the basketball court just two hours before the Bucks' home opener against the Los Angeles Lakers. 
Dunleavy tried to teach Robinson three or four of ·the Bucks' plays. Where his oppo­nents would be, Dunleavy set up green folding chairs. 
This, too, was quite fitting, seeing as how Robinson -who led the nation in scoring last year at Purdue -would spend much of the next month catch­ing his breath on one of those chairs. 
The 6-foot-7 forward tired quickly, and by the fourth quar­ter, even Marty Conlon, a for­mer CBA player making $150,000, was sent in ahead of Robinson, the richest rookie in the history of professional sports. 
A month into the season, many thought Detroit's Grant Hill had a lock on "Rookie of the Year" honors. Robinson has quickly changed that. 
"When I first came in, I really wasn't in shape and I wasn't putting up 30-point games. A lot of people said I wasn't the player I was in college. That bothered me because I had just come in," said Robinson, who scored his season-high 38 Tuesday night against Dallas. 
"I don't worry about that now. They are going to expect me to accomplish so many things because of the salary that I make." 
He missed a morning practice last month because his alarm clock didn't go off. Embarrassed rather than defi­ant -as is often the case these days -Robinson apologized to his coach and teammates, and went out and scored 24 points as the Bucks won at Chicago for the first time since 1988. 
He leads the Bucks in scoring, averaging about 20 points a game, and his play and pres­ence have vaulted Milwaukee back into the playoff picture af­ter last year's 20-62 season, the worst in franchise history. 
"As time goes by, the more comfortable he becomes and the more his skills become evi­dent," Dunleavy said. "You see, his strength is his versatility. He can score inside. He can score outside. He can take it off the dribble. He can go behind the three-point line. His devel­opment is his knowledge, and I see him improving on that all the time -and he gets double­teamed more than any rookie in the league." 
Robinson, who will play in the rookie game at the All-Star break in Phoenix next weekend, appears to have adjusted well to the added pressures of his record contract. A quiet man who speaks in a constant half­whisper, Robinson concentrates on his strengths. 
"I don't look at it as pres­sure," he said. "I just look at it as basketball. ... It doesn't re­ally matter if you're a rookie or you've been in the league 10 years, if you can play, you can play." 
It's not a thunderous dunk or sweet swish that comes to mind when Dunleavy thinks of one play that reveals Robinson's brisk progress. Rather, it is his reaction when the Bucks' coaches had stolen a call from the Washington bench and re­layed it to their players on the floor. 
Robinson caught the call, then stepped up and stole a pass from Bullets guard Scott Skiles. He drove the length of the court for a layup that helped Milwaukee win 120-115 on Jan. 19. 
Robinson still has a long way to go. He leads the Bucks in turnovers and he's struggled to keep his shooting percentage above 40 percent. 
All the great ones, he figures, had their travails, too. 
"I get double teamed a lot," Robinson said. "I think that explains some of it. Larry Bird was in the top three in turnovers. Magic Johnson, I be­lieve he led the league in turnovers. Even Michael Jordan was up there, he was the team leRobinson's goal is to reach the playoffs in his first season. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Classifieds 
NOTICES 
''CAMPUS BANDS/MUSICIANS" The Student Union Board is now accepting demo tapes to be consid­ered for the 1995 campus CD. Original music only, 1 song per demo please. Turn tape and short bio into SUB, second floor LaFortune, in "campus CD" box by February 17. Questions? Call Ryan at 288-3952 or Steve at 232 4959. "CAMPUS CD 1995'""'"''' 
Math Tutoring 234-1107 
HEY SOPHOMORES .......... 
Looking for that great service pro­
ject that makes a huge difference, 
and is still a lot of fun? 
Look no further! 
THE SOPHOMORE CLASS SERVICE PROJECT 
Youth Mentoring (serving as role models for under-privileged kids)at the Northeast Neighborhood Center 
FRIDAYS 2:30 • 4:30, or anytime in between. Meet at Main Circle or 161 Alumni Hall. Questions? Call Brian x1058. 
Used Texts Cheapl! Check out Pandora's Books 233-2342 NO ave & Howard st 10-6m-sat 9-3 sundays 
Pick Up The $20,000 Check in this year's campus telephone directory. The yellow pages are reinvented and more fun than ever before! Pick up your directory at your Residence Hall or Student Activities in LaFortune Student Union if you have not already received one, and you could be loaded this spring! 
CLEAR AND PRESENT DANGER 
FRI-SAT 8/1030 
Cushing Auditorium 
"Eat to live; and not live to eat!" Join us in Pangborn Hall's basement social space for a Healthy Eating • Healthy Dieting Workshop. Sun. Feb. 5 @ 7:00pm! 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST: 2 SPECIAL RINGS On Friday, Jan 27 I lost two rings. One Notre Dame class ring with the crest and diamond, inscribed KDJ '94 and one anniversary band with about seven diamonds. If found or have any Info call Kenya x4-3711. VERY SENTIMENTAL REWARD. 
FOUND: A jacket in The Observer Classifieds Department. 
FOUND: CD case in the second floor Nieuwland computer lab. Call x1365 to claim. 
LOST -gold rectangular gold charms that says Credit Suisse. Lost early wk. of 1/30. VERY Sentimental. Reward. Call Jennifer 4-1291. 
WANTED 
Spring Break! Bahamas Party Cruise 6 Days $279! Includes 12 Meals & 6 Free Parties! Great Beaches & Nightlife! A HUGE Party! Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights Air & Hotel From $429! Spring Break Travel 1-800·678-6386 
Florida's Spring Break Hotspots! PANAMA CITY OCEANVIEW ROOM WITH KITCHEN $1291 WALK TO BEST BARS! Cocoa Beach (Near Disney)-27 acre Deluxe Beachfront Resort 7 Nights $159! Key West $2291 Day1ona Room with Kitchen From $12911· 800-678-6386 
Spring Break! Panama City! 8 Days Oceanview Room with a Kitchen $1291 Walk to best bars! Includes Free Discount Card which will save you $100 on food/drinks! 1·800· 678-6386 
Babysitter wanted -occasional evening or weekend times, for 3& 1/2 and 1 year old, must have own car and be year round resi­dent, Judith 287-0260 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING­Earn up to $2,000+/month working on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­panies. World travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.). Seasonal and lull-time employment available. No experience neces­sary. For more information calll­206-634-0468 ext. C55842 
SUMMER JOBS 
ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS 
PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS 
NEAR LAKE PLACID 
CALL 1-800-786-8373 
STUDENTS NEEDED TO MAN­AGE PAINTING CREWS, THROUGHOUT INDIANA, FOR SUMMER OF '95. GUARANTEED TO MAKE $3000. IF INTERESTED, PLEASE CALL 1·800-94· STuDENT. 
Calc 120 tutor needed, prefer expe­
rience & good communicator $8/hr, 
2hr/wk x3882 Painters, Foremen, and Managers­Call College Pro Painters at 1 (800) 346-4649. 

FOR RENT 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAMPUS 232-2595 
Oakhill Condo for RENT for the 1995-1996 school year. For information call: 273-9438. 
1, 2, & 3 BDRM HOMES NEAR CAMPUS. AVAIL NOW & NEXT FALL GILLIS PROPERTIES 272· 6551 
ROOM FOR RENT. FEB.1-MAY31, 1995. MATURE STUDENT. QUIET NEIGHBORHOOD. 255-9005 
Perfect for 2nd Semester in student occupied 3-flat, heat included. Furnished 1 bedrm apt.-$260 755 South Bend Ave.-1 blk. west of NO Ave. deposit, 1-800-582-9320 
FOR SALE 
LOSE WEIGHT FOR SPRING BREAK! No diets/drugs/exercise! Fabulous Herbal Tablets: guaran· teed results! Kelly (800)209-2150 
SELLING POWER-TRANSLATOR FOR DOS SOFTWARE, ENG­SPANISH, BRAND NEW, 130, 271-19-98. 
84 DODGE OMNI, RUNNING WELL, GOOD CONDITION, 600 271-19-98 
$250 voucher for travel on America West Airlines. Being sold FOR ONLY $200. Good unti111/27/95. Call Mike@ 273·6077. 
Mac Computer SE30 4/80 $600 or 
best offer. Luttio 288-0097 
MUTOH left-hand drafting machine w/vemco scales. 1-18" & 1-12". $595 value-<Jn sale tor $250. Call 679·9266. 
386 SX-20, 2mb ram, 85mb hd, 3.5 and 5.25 hd drives, keyboard, mouse, original software and manu­als, SVGA monitor. $475 obo. Two 4x9 SIMMs, $125 ea. obo. 271· 5687 
Health club membership for sale. 
Includes Tae Kwon Do lessons, 
pool, weight room, spa and 
TANNING BEDS. Make offer. 
Call Randy 272-0415 
Brand new Technics 5-disc cd play­er with remote-perfect condition­$200 or best offer x0640 OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered at $85,900. First Floor location. Finished basement with full lavato­ry. Two Bedrooms and two baths on ground level. Lease back to owner through May, 1995. Call (616) 946-0700. 
TICKETS 
NEED BASKETBALL TIX FOR MARQUETTE GAME!! I CALL MARTY 277·2710 
Need Marquette GA's Call Chris x3767 
$NEED 2 PETTY TIX BRIAN @x1817 $$$ 
Help! I need 2 pairs of GAs for the UK game. $15-$25/ ticket Call Wade x3883 
Will trade 2 Th REVUE tix for 2 Fri tix. 4-3881 
Marquette GAs needed Contact Bryon -1042 
Please Help! I Need 2 Kentucky GA's. Kory X1644 
KEENAN REVUE TIX Want to trade 2 FRI tix for 2 SAT tix. Call John at x0858. 
WANTED: 6 Tickets to Tom Petty DESPERATEIIIII Please Call Mary Jane @ 271-0224 
Kentucky tix NEEDED $$Call Brent x1761 
2 Petty-loving girts desperately seeking tickets. Willing to pay big 
moneyl Call ~-3698 and ask for 
Mary Jane. 
Need 3 Marquette GA's Call Doug 4-4471 
Need 4 tix (ga or stud) lor NO-UK 
game call Lee x1216 
Help! I need MU GA's. 
Call Beth x4620 
Need 2 Marquette tix for my broth­er, stu OK 289-9420 
NEED TICKETS FOR TOM PETTY-ELDERLY GRANDMOTH­ER'S DYING WISH IS TO SEE TOM PREFORM "AMERICAN GIRL" CALL-X4100 
PERSONAL 
Sound Tachs Needed! Student Activities is now hiring sound techs. Applications available in the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune. Deadline Friday, February 3. 
Shannon Dunn sings Janis Joplin 
with GEORGE AND THE FREEKS 
Saturday, February 4th 
Sorin Hall, 10:00 P.M. 
-Scooter Bug and Fort Score is two-zero Love Milky 
ROSES ARE RED VIOLETS ARE BLUE THE OBSERVER HAS A SPECIAL OFFER FOR YOU 
VALENTINE'S DAY is quickly approaching and now is the time to place a classified ad for your valen­tine. All Valentine's Day ads will appear in a SPECIAL Valentine's classified section of The Observer on Tuesday, February 14. 
You may place your classified Monday through Friday from Bam to 3pm. We are located on the third floor of Lafortune. Place your ad now and beat the rush! 
ATTENTION ALL CAMPUS BANDS AND MUSICIANS!! !IIIII 
NAZZ Applications aredue 
THIS FRIDAY AT 5PM in the SUB office, 2nd II. Lafortune don't forget your entry fee, logo and tape!! I no late entries will be considered. ???'s call kate x4828 
Dear Dave, 
you don't know me but while I was busy taking care of young chil· dren at a pro-life day care center, you were busy accusing me of being responsible for shooting someone I'd never met, and I feel that you owe me an apol· ogy. 
THE BIG EARL BAND 
-live at Flanner Tower­Saturday Night 
THE BIG EARL BAND 
KEENAN REVUE 
THE REVUE STARTS AT 7:00 
NOT AT 8:00111 
ADOPTION-A LOVING CHOICE. We're blessed with financial securi­ty and a Dalmatian! Mid-Western couple, stay-at-home mom. Allowable expenses paid. 800-440· 6024 Tracy & Doug 
To the "Unforgettable" women 
of Farley • go out with us. Prove 
yourselves. 
-the Men of Flanner Hall 
CASINO NIGHT IS BACK! Feb. 10, 1995 Get to know a Knott Angell This year you need to get on The List 
LONDON BOY STEVE FROM PITT WHO RIDES TO THE 5TH, How about a dance on the 11th? RSVP to SWEDISH TUNNEL GIRL (how creative can we get?). 
Desperately seeking ride to Padre for Spring Break. Will split gas and tolls in exchange. Call Bridget at x2702. 
Need 4 tix (ga or stud) for NO-UK game call Lee x1216 
Jenny and Mud-You are my heros I 
ATTENTION ALL ACTORS!! I 
EXPERIENCED THESPIAN? 
COMMERCIAL ACTOR? MINOR TRAINING? CLOSET ACTOR? IT DOESN'T MATTER!!! 
WE WANT YOU ANYWAY!!! the only requirement is that you are a sophomore, so come out and audition for the class of 97's 
SOPHOMORE FOUR 4 one-acts directed and acted by the sophomore class. This sunday 1-5pm in the Notre Dame room, 2nd floor Lafortune. Lot's of parts. Lot's of fun questions? call kate x4837 
Come see GEORGE AND THE FREEKSI Saturday, February 4th Sorin Hall 
10:00 P.M. 
No Cover! No age requirement! Just good clean fun! 
Meghan and Kristy, Happy 21st? Birthday -Natty Clan & Co. 
Flanner Tower Presents: 
Gamecock Rock Concert Series Saturday, February 4 9:00p.m. in the Flanner Basement 
Featuring: The Big Earl 
Kid Kaos Admission is $1 Tickets available in Flanner or at 
the Lafortune Info Desk Flanner Foodsales will be open to offer you pizza, pop, and snacks! 

·······-······························ 
Checkmate, DOOL, Farley 
we love our PoserMac II 
where's my glamour? 

• PRO BASKETBALl 



;;_ Scott plays role of old warrior to pace Indiana 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I I I 
f 
( 
By HANK LOWENKRON "Byron is Byron. Every night, he can give us a lift off the ing three consecutive with 75 The Pacers are 16-4 at home Associated Press he's consistent. He really bench," said Indiana guard points, 29 rebounds and five and 25-17 overall heading into means a lot to this team," said Haywoode Workman. blocked shots. Friday's visit by Orlando in INDIANAPOLIS Indiana coach Larry Brown, "Byron's done a great job of "You can't worry about who their first meeting since Indiana 
Byron Scott, the oldest player 
who has been using the veteran stepping up. He's coming in, is hurt and who can't play. swept the Magic three straight on the Indiana Pacers, knows up front against taller forwards shooting the ball well and run­You've just got to go out and in the opening round of last when it's time to step up. while LaSalle Thompson and ning the fast break. I think his make up for any adversity," year's playoffs.
That's what the 33-year-old is Dale Davis recover from shoul­confidence really helps us," Scott said after coming off the "We've got to play the waydoing for a team trying to over­der injuries and Antonio Davis said center Rik Smits, who has bench to score 16 points and we played the last three games, come a series of injuries that remains on the injured list also stepped up to lead the help Indiana defeat Cleveland that's just being real aggressive have struck just as the club hits recuperating from back Pacers in scoring and rebound-101-82 Wednesday night. on both ends," Scott said. 
a crucial stretch of its schedule. 
surgery.Scott has come off the bench 
Scott's teammates, aware to average 16.7 points in the that he earned three NBA last three games while making championship rings with the 
ALL-NEW!!!

eight of 12 shots from beyond Lakers, haven't forgotten the 
the 3-point line. Scott, who key role he played last year as signed as a free agent last sea­Indiana came within seconds of son after nine years with the winning the Eastern Conference 
Los Angeles Lakers, has hit on championship for the first time 19 of 26 shots in those games since joining the NBA in 1976. 




STUDENT
and made all 10 of his free "Byron's a great player and throws. he's been through this many
Scott has played 75 minutes times. He started on champi­with just one turnover in the onship teams and I think when three games. he gets in the game, he realizes 

FILM 
The Observer 


FESTIVAL
is now looking for an 
THE BEST FILMS BY STUDENTS FROM SORIN, DILLON, LEWIS, BREEN PHILLIPS, MORRISSEY, TURTLE CREEK, CAMPUS VIEW, 

Assistant Systems Manager 
LAFAYETTE SQUARE, AND MANY MORE 
Looking for someone with extensive experience supporting Macintosh Computers: including networking, hard ware 

FRIDAY AND SATURDAY 
maintenance, training, user support and general knowledge. Earn up to $40 per week. 
FEB. 3 & 4 7:30 AND 9:45PM 
Contact Sean Gallavan 631-8839 (work) 232-7991 (home) 
CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
The Hammes Do y H 
Notre Dame Bookstore ou ave 
"On The 
us!" 
phone: 631-6316 

? 
store hours: Mon-Sat: 9a.m. -5p.m. 
' 



-·----~----------------------, 
Irish carry five-game win streak to Loyola 
By K.C. GOYER 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team looks to extend their longest winning streak so far this season as they travel to Chicago to play Loyola University on Saturday. 
The Irish have won their last 5 games, the latest victory com­ing Wednesday night on the road against Marquette University. 
"Marquette was a good team," Co-captain Carey Poor said, "They just couldn't handle lour inside game. I" 
The forward force will take on the Hamblers of Loyola University of Chicago tomorrow where they will enjoy a height advantage once again. Loyola lost 7 seniors from last year's team and are playing this sea­son with only one returning starter. The team finished last season with an 8-19 record. This year's team lost to Marquette earlier this season 98-52. Notre Dame defeated Marquette 87 -6(>. 
Notre Dame has an 11-7 

GIVE ME A BREAK! 
... SPRING BREAK 
Hang out in: 
oCANCUN o$ourH PAIJRE ISLANIJ oBAHAMAS ofr. MYERS 
Call New Horizons Travel "Your Party Planners" 
(800)639~4674 or (219)273~4934 51529 Bittersweet Rd., Granger, IN Call our 24 hour hotline for the latest specials: (219)2 77-9749 



Seniors! Seniors! 
Want to go to the Pacers-Knicks game on Feb. 8? 
Buy your tickets at the LaFortune information desk. -Bus leaves at 3:15 pm at the the CCE. -Cost for ticket and transportation 


$15.00. 
Call 631-5225 for more information. 
record, including an undefeat­ed record in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference. The Irish are in first place in the MCC as they only remaining team without a loss at 7-0. 
Saturday's game will begin a series of 8 consecutive confer­ence games, ending with the Irish defending their MCC championship in the conference tournament. 
Loyola's defense will most likely center on sophomore offensive onslaught of Beth Morgan and Katryna Gaither. 
Nobody's defense has been able to box out the Irish as Notre Dame has owned the boards in every game so far this season. Most recently, the Fightin' Irish outrebounded their opponent 58-34. 
Rebounding regal rights belong to senior Letitia Bowen, who is averaging 9.6 rebounds per game, pulled down 14 in the last game. Bowen earned her title as the all time leading rebounder in the history of Notre Dame women's basket­ball four games ago against LaSalle on January 21. 
The ObSI!rver,IKyte 
Sophomore Beth Morgan, who averages 18 po~nts per game, key factor for the Irish in Saturday's contest aga1nst Loyola. 
.. THE SOUTH BEND SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA ),)l)J• • MAESTRO~~UNG';!,, .. 
Be Our Valentine :!V 
" A Broadway Extravaganza! 
featuring 
Katherine Terrell, Lewis Dahle von Schlanbusch 
• and the Camerata Singers 
~ ~ 

I\¥ Return Engagement! 
.J' Saturday, February 11, 1995 " • ~ ¥ 8:00 p.m. • Morris Civic Auditorium i ~ f*f 

.. For Tickets ($11.00 · $26.00) " Call (219) 235·9190 For Special Group Rates Call (219) 232-6343 SIUdent and Senior Discounts Available 
~ 
page 17 

Ewing, Grant pull in NBA Player of the Month honors 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Patrick Ewing of the New York Knicks and Brian Grant of the Sacramento Kings won NBA monthly awards on Thursday. 
Ewing earned Player of the Month honors, averaging 24.1 points and 12.6 rebounds as the Knicks went 13-2 during the month of January. He shot .518 from the field, making 143 of 276 field goal attempts, and .811 on 73-for-90 on free throws. 
In 15 games during the month, Ewing scored 20 or more points 12 times and 30 or more three times. He was in double figures for scoring and rebounding in 13 games. 
Grant, the Rookie of the Month, averaged 15.8 points, 
9.7 rebounds and 2.1 blocks in 15 games. Chosen eighth in the NBA draft last June, Grant helped the Kings to a fran­chise-best 9-4 record for the month. 
Other candidates for Player of the Month were Utah's Karl Malone, Orlando's Shaquille O'Neal, Houston's Hakeem Olajuwon, Charlotte's Larry Johnson, Detroit's Joe Dumars, Phoenix's Charles Barkley, San Antonio's David Robinson, and Seattle's Gary Payton and Detlef Schrempf. 
Other rookie candidates were Washington's Juwon Howard, Boston's Eric Montross, Jason Kidd of Dallas and Milwaukee's Glenn Robinson. 
The rookie award is spon­sored by Schick. 
ERASMU 

• 
Used books bougi1t and sold 

• 
25 categories of Books 

• 
25,1X10 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print Search Service: $200 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219)232-8444 

ITWO THUMBS UP FORTHE LION KING'!" 
Carroll Auditorium Thursday, February 2 Friday, February 3 7:00 & 9:30 $2 
IIIKil&I!IRT 
"A ROYAL TREAT! ITS 
EXHilARATING! 
ITS AHlKi[LY£NHRTAINING SU~DOf MUSIC FUN AND flli\JPPING THRill5' 
· rmm\lll:l ROlliNG ST0\1 

-.... _ 
"''VE NEVERSHN ANYTHING LIKE IT! 
HmfRK:AlLYFl\\1 EXCITING AND MOIING LO\G l~1TH! Kl~'· 
-IOH i1EGELG(X1r ·.~,1;,\I\G \Iii RICA 
"MAJESTIC1 
GfMROL:m fllUD 
II"ITHL01l PlAY A.~D HEOI\.11' ·ri!IWIC:'~ ~ni)IIH> ''·''"1'1 

.. 


-----~----~--~-----------~­



Cavanaugh I Alumni I McCandless Breen-Phillips I Stanford /Regina I Augusta Sorin I Walsh Fisher I Pangborn Badin I Dillon I LeMans 
P.E.I Grace I Knott Cross I Morrissey I Lyons r"FIT~~ii~a 

St. Ed's I Lewis Carroll/ Howard I Keenan 
P.W.IFlanner I Siegfried Zahm I Farley 



OPEN SKATE 

Come to Late Night Olympics on Friday, February 3, and take part in tlie OPEN SKATE event which is scheduled from 10:00 PM • Midnight. 
No advance sign-ups are needed. The cost of Skate Rentals is $1.00 and all rental fees will be donated to Special Olympics. 

ACC 
BE A REAL CHAMPION SUPPORT SPECIAL OLYMPICS!!!! 

LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS IS SPONSORED BY RECSPORTS 

... 
Co-Ree Volleyball Half Court 3 on 3 Basketball (M&W) Nerf Football Co-Ree Water Polo Wiffle Ball Indoor Soccer (M&W) Target Golf Ultimate RecSports Challenge 
Table Top Pentathlon 
1m~~~~~ Broomball (M&W) Kickball Racquetball (M&W) Kayaking Monster Dodgeball 

Come to Late Night Olympics on Friday, February 3, and take part in the SLAM DUNK contest! 
Sign-ups will be taken Friday between 
8:00 PM and 10:30 PM in the RecSports office. Dunking 
will begin at 11:00 PM lmmB~ii~~ 
Rims will be at 8 ft. for women and 9 ft. for men. 


----------------------~------------------------------­
Friday, February 3, 1995 The Observer· SPORTS page 19 
• NFL FooTBAll 

Eagles, Raiders play coaching hokey p~key ... 
Philadelphia White emerges from Arts 
takes to Rhodes IFL Coaching Shakeup shell as new Raider coach 
By JOHN F. BONFATTI 
Associated Press 
By JOHN NADEL the team made the playoffs in Associated Press three of his five full seasons.
PHILADELPHIA 

White, a former coach at
Hay Hhodes, an assistant 

LOS ANGELES 
California and Illinois, wascoach who won five Super 
Art Shell was fired as coach Shell's offensive line coach theBowls with the San Francisco 
of the Los Angeles Raiders past two years and has been
49ers, was hired Thursday as today and will be replaced by with the team since 1990. Hehead coach of the Philadelphia assistant Mike White. 
will be at the news conferenceEagles. 
Shell, a Hall of Farner player today.
The appointment ends a six­with the Haiders who coached The Raiders were knot:kedweek coaching search by the the team for six years. was the out of the playoffs on the lastEagles that involved at least 
first black coach in modern 
day of the regular season afterlive candidates. 
NFL history. He had been with a 19-9 loss to Kansas City at
Fired Fired
Hhodes, 43, in his second the Haiders for 27 seasons as a the Coliseum. 
stint as defensive coordinator player, assistant and coach. 
On Wednesday. Shell had no

for the 49ers, replaces Hich Rich Kotite Art Shell "The Raiders expressed comment about his job statusKotite, who was fired Dec. 26. 
gratitude and sincere thanks to and spent several hours in his
lie becomes the NFL's second ·,
Art Shell for his tremendous 
office. It has been reported
black head coach, joining Hired Hired 
contribution to the excellence Shell would be offered anotherDennis Green of the Minnesota of the organization throughout job with the Raiders, but thatVikings. Earlier in the day, Art Ray Rhodes Mike White his 27 years as a Hall of Fame 
he was considering other
Shell, who is black, was fired as offensive tackle, as an assistant coaching possibilities. 
coach of the Los Angeles coach and as the head coach," Asked Wednesday what heHaiders. the Eagles to the Super Bowl; offs. a team news release said. 
would do if fired, Shell told theWith the departure of Gary Stevens, the offense and With the 49ers, he won four The firing had been expected 
Los Angeles Times: "If and
Hhodes, the 49ers have lost quarterbacks coach for the Super Bowl titles as assistant since the Raiders missed the 
when the time comes, I'll ad­their offensive and defensive Miami Dolphins; Mike defensive backs coach and de­playoffs with a 9-7 record after dress that." 
coordinators four days after Shanahan, the Denver Broncos' fensive backs coach from 1981 being picked as a preseason fa­Another source cited by thewinning their record fifth Super new coach; and Dennis to 1991. After two seasons as vorite to reach the Super Bowl. 
Times said there have been ex­Bowl. Mike Shanahan was Erickson, the Seattle Seahawks' defensive coordinator in Green Shell, who along with ploratory talks with the Miami
hired as head of the Dener new coach. Bay, he returned to San Minnesota's Dennis Green, 
Dolphins about Shell becomingBroncos on Tuesday. Others reportedly on Lurie's Francisco as defensive coordi­were the only two black NFL an assistant to Dolphin headThursday's announcement short list included Tony Dungy, nator this season. head coaches last season. Shell coach Don Shula. 
came as Eagles fans began the defensive coordinator for Rhodes interviewed for head became the seventh NFL coach Shell played for the Raiderswondering if rookie owner Jeff the Vikings; and Paul Hackett, coaching positions in Denver to leave since the 1994 season 
in Oakland and Los Angeles
Lurie would ever find a new Kansas City Chiefs offensive and New England after the began. 
1968-82 as an offensive tackle,
coach. coordinator. 1992 season. 
Shell succeeded Mike 
and was inducted into the HallThe candidates Lurie consid­Rhodes, who also interviewed Rhodes was drafted out of the Shanahan as the Raiders' coach of Fame in 1989. He became anered included former Dallas for the coaching job in St. University of Tulsa by the New following the fourth game of assistant coach with the teamcoach Jimmy Johnson; Dick Louis, inherits a team that went York Giants in 1974 and re­the 1989 season. Shell's record 
in 1983 until being named
Vermeil, the only coach to take 7-9 and failed to make the play-mained a player until 1980, with the Raiders was 56-41 and coach six vears later. 


Beforeyou need to make asingle payment, 7,776,000secondswill have passed, the baseball strike mayfinally come to an end and theterm"GenerationX"will have beenused onetoo manytimes. 
BUY AN APPLE MACINTOSH NOW. PAY FOR IT LATER."  erals without making asingle paymentfor 90 days: Combine that with no h3$1es,  
We're not just making it easier for you to buy aMacintosh~ we're making it easier  no complicated fonns and already great student pricing, and the easy-to-use  
for you to buy something else you really need-time. Because for alimited time, with the Apple Computer Loan and 90-Day Deferred Payment Plan, you can own a Macintosh personal compute~ printer, CD-ROM drive or other periph- Macintosh is now incredibly easy to buy. The Apple Computer Loan and 90-Day Deferred Payment Plan. The solution that gives you the Appl a power every student needs. The power to be your best~ 11e­ 

Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB •631-7477 M-F9am-5pm 
'D(erredApple CompuJer loan offer etp1res February 17, 1995. No payment ofinterest or principal will be requiredfor 90 days. (Some meiJers may require adeposit to bold merd/andise wbi1e loan Is being aam-J.) /nlertsl 
aa:ruing during this 90·day periodwill be addedto principa~ andthe principal amount, as so incrrased, willthermjler bear interest wbicb will be induded in the repayment scb«iuue. 'Monlbly payment tr an tsltmale based on lbe following infomuzllon: For the Power Macini!Jsh 8100 system shown here, apurchaseprice of14.935, which includes 5% saJer tax; including loanfees, the lola/ loan amount tr 15,222.11, wbich rerulls in amonlbly payment ob/igallon
of$87. For the Performa 636 CD system sbown here, apurchasepria of$1,85850, wbicb indudes 5% sales lax; induding loanfees, /he lola/loan amounltr $1,966.67, whlcb rerulls in amonlbly payment ob/igallon of133. Compuler system prices loan amounts andsales taxes may vary. See your authorizedApple Campus Resel/er or representalitll! for current system prices, loan andtax amounts. loans arefor aminimum of$1,000 to amaximum if$10,000. lbu 
may take oui more than one loan, bullbe total ofaU loans cannot exceed $10,000 annually. A55% loan origlnallim fee will be added to /he requested loan amounl. 1be interest l'tlkls variable, based on the commm:/aJ paper l'tlk plus 535%. For the month ofNotll!mher, 1994, the interest rate was 10.85% with an Annual l'frr.enlage Rate of12.10%. 8-year loan term wllh no prepaymentpenalty. 1be monlbly ~and/be Annuall'erten/age Rate sboum assume the 90-day deferment ifprincipal andinterest descrih«< above and IW olber deforment ofprincipal or interest. Students may deferprincipalpayments ~.to 4years, or unlilgraduation. DefermenJ will cba"if"your monlbly payments. 1be A/Jfile Computer loan Is subjed /o credit approval. Apple Campuler loan and 90-Day Deferred Paymenl Plan offers available only to qualifying students, faculty and staff. Ojfors available onlyfrr»n Apple or an auiborizedAppfe Campus Reseffer or represenlallt¥1. ©1994 Apple Camputer, Inc. All righJs reserved. A{Pie, theA[pie logo, Macini!Jsh, Performa and ''lbepower to beyour best" are reglrlered lrr1demm*-s ofApple Campu1er, Inc. A{fllelJeslgn 
andPower Macini!Jsh are lrallemarifofAJple Campuler, Inc. 
~~----~----------------~~-------­
page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February 3, 1995 
• COLLEGE HOOPS
·--.. 


Spartans pound Penn State; Arizona holds on 
Associated Press 
Quinton Brooks scored a sea­son-high 24 points and Shawn Respert added 23 as No. 9 Michigan State beat Penn State 82-62 Thursday night. 
The Spartans remained atop the Big Ten standings with a 7­1 record and improved their overall mark to 15-2 with their sixth straight victory. Penn State fell to 4-4 in the confer­ence and 12-5 total for the sea­son. 
Brooks made 12 of 16 shots from the field, and finished one point short of his career high. Jamie Feick had 12 points and eight rebounds for Michigan State, which outrebounded Penn State 37-24. 
John Amaechi led the Nittany Lions with 17 points and 10 re­bounds. 
The Spartans, who led by nine points at halftime, used a 12-3 run midway through the second half to open a 62-47 lead. The spurt was capped by steals and layups by Brooks and Eric Snow. 
Michigan State outscored Penn State 12-1 in the final 2:48. 
Respert scored 11 points, in­cluding three 3-pointers, during a 15-2 run that gave the Spartans a 21-7 lead in the first half. 
Pete Lisecky's 3-pointer cut Michigan State's lead to six points, but Respert put back his own rebound with eight sec­onds left to give the Spartans a 40-31 halftime advantage. 
No. 12 Arizona 84, Washington St. 76 
Joe McLean scored five points in the last 53 seconds and No. 12 Arizona withstood a furious finish by Washington State to escape with an 84-76 victory Thursday night. 
The victory was the Wildcats' 19th straight over Washington State (10-6, 5-3 Pac-10). 
After trailing by 11 points with 6:29 remammg, Washington State pulled within 74-72 on Mark Hendrickson's layup with 1:30 left. But McLean hit a 3-pointer with 
53.6 seconds remaining, and 16 seconds later Ben Davis made one of two free throws. 
Hendrickson made another layup with 25 seconds left to cut Arizona's lead to 81-76. But McLean hit a pair of free throws, and Damon Stoudamire made one of two from the line for the final margin after Hendrickson fouled out with 13 seconds remaining. 
Ray Owes led Arizona (16-4, 6-2) with 19 points, including 10 quick points at the start of the second half as the Wildcats moved ahead 60-45. 
Arizona led 72-61 on a 3­pointer by Corey Williams, but Washington State then scored eight straight points to pull within 72-69 with 2:59 left. Isaac Fontaine, who finished with 23 points, scored six points for the Cougars during the run. 
Damon Stoudamire and Ben Davis each scored 16 points for Arizona. 
• COLLEGE HOOPS 
Smith almost too good for college 
By DAVID GINSBURG 
Associated Press 
COLLEGE PARK, Md. 
There's no longer any ques­tion of just how good Maryland center Joe Smith is. The only mystery surrounding the sen­sational sophomore is will Joe go pro, or will he stick around for another season or possibly two? 
Smith solidified his status as a possible lottery pick Wednesday night with a 29­point, 21-rebound effort in the fifth-ranked Terrapins' 71-62 win over Virginia. 
... "Unfortunately, it was on na­tional television," noted Maryland coach Gary Williams, who would prefer to keep Smith all to himself. Smith hardly needed the pub­licity. He came to Maryland from Norfolk, Va. as a shy 18­year-old, and now it's as if his face is on a wanted poster. After every game, several agents and NBA scouts lurk outside the dressing room hop­ing to chat with the 6-foot-10 star. For the first time in school 
history, security measures have been taken to keep away auto­graph seekers. 
His future is of such interest that Maryland officials and Smith have set up rules govern­ing post-game interviews: no questions about the NBA. The policy was strictly enforced Wednesday night as Smith pa­tiently dealt with wave after wave of reporters. 
Smith has said all along that he will make a decision after the season. Until then, the spec­ulation will continue. 
"From what I hear, he's go­ing to be with us for four more years," Maryland forward Keith Booth said. 
Wishful thinking? Probably, but Booth isn't alone. 
It's been a long time since Maryland and its long-suffering fans have had this much fun. The Terrapins (17 -3) are atop the Atlantic Coast Conference after winning six straight league games for the first time in 15 years. The main reason is Smith, who is averaging 20 points and 10 rebounds per game. 

Thin~ Su.rnrnet" 
consic!er spend.i.nq eight w~ of your summer work-i.n.g wi..tl a d:i.sadvantage«i popu!ati.on 
sponsonu£ &y Notre Dame Aeumni. C(u&s across the country 
-a wonderfu.C l:earni.nq experience 
-$ 1 50 0 . 0 0 Socia! Concerns SchoCa.rshi.p 
'\ 
-o Th.eotogy cred:i.ts
'\ 
.... \ 
) 
Jllppfication ieaifine: !February 8t" 

in.formati,on. avaUabCe at the Center for SociaL Concerns 
,. 
Qucstt.ons: SM your KaU :Rep or Sue Cunn~nqfuun cot t{,., esc 
"I don't think there's any se­crets how good Joe is," Williams said. "He had an off­game Saturday, and his ability to come back says something about him. Not too many guys can do that." 
If Smith's career-low 6-point effort against Duke on Saturday raised any doubts about his tal­ent, those questions were dis­missed Wednesday. 
In addition to notching game­high totals in points and rebounds, he also swatted away 
seven  shots and had three  
steals.  
"He  could  have  had  40  

points," Maryland guard Duane Simpkins said. "That's the most complete all-around game he's ever played, but I think he could do more. We expect him to do even more." 
Said Smith: "I feel I played a very level game, a pretty good game." 

Spring-Special 
14 INCH 2 ITEM PIZZA-$7 INCLUDES TAX 2-12 INCH 61TEM PIZZAS-$10 INCLUDESTAX 





273-3890 
u 

S T I L L T H E B E 5 T '' 
~ iffDfJJIM Jis rC,_k,f6rrruJftiiLW'llf! 
oftlie rrwentietli Ylnniversary oftlie P,piscopa{ Ordination 
of 
BISHOP JOHN M. D'ARCY 
AND 
TEN YEARS OF SERVICE AS BISHOP OF FORT WAYNE­SOUTH BEND 
inc{ucfes 
.9L Ce[ebration oftlie Mass 
; 
fJ'uesday, ~e6rnary 7, 5:15pm 
BASILICA OF THE SACRED HEART 
.fll{{We{come! 
-~~--------------------~­
• 
LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS ­Late Night Olympics is February 3. For the name of your hall representative, call HecSports at 1-6100. 
CROSS-COUNTRY SKI RENTALS -Rentals are avail­able to students, faculty, and staff_ Hents skis, boots, and poles. No reservations neces­sary. Check out 4:30-5:30 on Thursday and Friday and 11 :00 AM-2:00 PM on Saturday. Check in 4:30-5:30 on Friday and Sunday and 11 :00 AM-2:00 PM on Saturday. For rates and more info call the Golf Shop at I -6425 of HecSports at 1-6100. 
BENGAL BOUTS • Training occurs daily at 4:00 PM at the .IACC. Anyone interested should please contact Jeff Goddard at 287-8041. 
CUMBING WALl. SCHEDULE · The Climbing Wall will be open for use beginning Sunday, January 22. The hours will be Sundays 2:00-5:00 and Tuesdays and Thursdays from 7:00-10:00. The climbing wall is located in the Rockne Memorial and anyone inter· ested in using it must attend an orientation session. For more info call RecSports at 1-6100. 
NO RUGBY CLUB · Spring practice begins Monday, February 6th at 10:30 and on Wednesday the 8th at 9:30. I you have any questions call Brendan at 234-8276 or Mike at 4-2289. 
CI.IMBING WALL· There will be a climbing wall orientation session Sunday, February 5th, at 12:30 pm in the Rock. Call RecSports at 1·6100 to register. Space is limited. 
SPORTSTALK -It's back on Sunday at 7:30 PM on WVFl 640 AM. providing ND with its own sports talk show. This week: recruiting, basketball, and a special guest. Call in with comments at 1-6400. 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL -Anyone interested in being a 1995 Bookstore commissioner can pick up an application in the Student Government office in LaFortune until Monday, February 6 at 4 p.m. Any ques­tions? CaJI Greg at 4-1560. 
By JOE VILLINSKI Sports Writer 
As the fencing teams head east for the second consecutive weekend, they will be greeted by a familiar site. 
The Irish travel to Brandeis University, site of where they captured the national champi­onship just ten months ago. 
For the mildly struggling Irish, maybe a return to the place of past glory can help. 
"I guess when I enter the gym, I'll think about what we accomplished last March," ju­nior foilist Mindi Kalogera said . "That will definitely empower me and I will feed off that en­ergy for the day." 
Despite having minor trouble last week, Kalogera and the rest of the women's team re­mained undefeated(12-0). Their current winning streak now stands at 41, one shy of the all-time mark. 
That mark can be shattered 
• fENCING 
Notre Dame hopes to relive glory days 
on Saturday as the women face Princeton, Brown, New York University, Wellesley, and Brandeis. 
"Each of the teams are strong enough to win on their own," Kalogera added. "But if that dosen't happen and one team gets in trouble, the other team will be there to pick it up." 
Princeton will provide the biggest challenge for the Irish. Along with a strong epee team, Princeton finished ninth overall in women's foil at the NCAA championships. 
"The fact that they have so many returning fencers and the competition they face every week on the east coast makes them tough," Kalogera said. 
The men (9-1) left the ranks of the unbeaten against St. John's last weekend, ending their winning streak at 37. 
"We have to put the champi­onship behind us," DeCicco said. "This is just another week of fencing." 
Take a Spring Break reality check. South Padre Island, Texas, is the hottest Spring Break destination for many reasons. 
The Island is a hot spot for student's offering exciting music, a sea of watersports and legendary nightlife. It's even close enough to give you a spicy taste of Mexico. But the Island's location makes it even hotter; it's further south than any other 
Let Lei5ure Tour5 International 
take you to ~outh Padre Js\anO. 
Land only from $199 pp.
wl airfare from $369 pp. Call1-800-435-3478 
Largest 
Spring 
Break Club 
On the Planet 

SURf 
MOT~l 
800-723-6519 
BOOMEUNG 
Billy's 
.,..,,r.vrr VOIJWSE'·LF & $.4\'E'f 
• 
2,5 & 7 NIGHT TRIPS • BEST LOCATIONS 

• 
BEST PARTIES • BEST PRICES .., 


"'·""'".--..~ ,~.soo~siJ·NCIIAS·~
major Spring Break destination in the United States. That's right. 
TOLL FREE INFORMATION 8r RESERVATIONS
And that means tropical sunshine, white sand beaches, clear blue water and more sun-drenched days than just about any­where. That's hot! 
Located on the tropical tip of Texas, South Padre Island is 


LErSPADRE 
convenient by car or by plane and only 25 miles from Mexico. Fly into The Rio Grande Valley via Southwest, American, 
FOR MORE INFORMATION ON and Continental Airlines. 
THE HOTTEST SPRING BREAK 
Two airports, Harlingen's Valley Inter­national Airport and The Brownsville/ DESTINATION SPI International Airport, offer conve­
IN THE U.S. CALL nient air service. So calll-800·343·2368 RidJt~ 
1-800-343-2368 ISLAND,TEXAS
today for a free brochure. 
The men will fence on Sunday at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where they will meet Princeton, Brown, NYU, Brandeis, and host MIT. As with the women, Princeton will present a difficult test for the Irish. 
"Their experience sets them apart," Patel noted. "We have the talent, but we're building on the experience." 
NYU will also be another ob­stacle coming off their seventh place finish at the NCAA's last year. They finished fourth in men's foil and fifth in epee. 
"We have to make sure that everyone is focused on the com­petition they saw last week­end," DeCicco said. "Because that is the kind of competition they'll be seeing for the next two weeks. 
"We're confident we'll get back on track this weekend," he added. "With the quality of people we have on our teams, I don't expect anything else." 
HURRY! 
SPACE IS UMITED! 
l'rlal'rr:l.desrwrdlli>titfftlrall~trnlrnm7~­
~bostdarqJaiocap«rcy. r......notlrWctti. 
Council Travel 
1153 N, Dearborn, 2nd Floor 
Chict~gQ, ll60610 


311•951•0585 
Call for availability, prices, and other Spring Break destinations. 
8-20/30
MINUTE PACKAGES 
or 
1 MONTH/3 MONTH UNLIMITED PACKAGES 
(ltk'liJ.,'Ct llair (~('.t~@ 
5804 Grape Rd., Mishawaka 
2n-7946 
9 to 8 Sat. 9 to b Sun. 11-5 


--~-­

---------. 
• HOCKEY 
Soaring Irish look to continue winning ways 
By MICHAEL DAY Sports Writer 
Little orphan Annie once said, "The sun will come out tomor­row." All joking aside, tomor­row could be today for the Notre Dame hockey team. 
With the football program's successful recruiting season dominating the headlines re­cently, few realize that the Irish hockey team is playing their best puck of the year. 
Although that doesn't say too much in light of their 7-19-2 record heading into tonight's game at Miami of Ohio, Notre Dame has made tremendous strides over the last month of the season. Saturday's 7-2 vic­tory over Ferris State illus­trated the squad's quiet transi­tion from cellar dweller to CCHA contender. 
"We had been playing better although the results didn't al­ways show it," said Ric Schafer following the victory. "Saturday's win was a reward for the guys' hard work." 
If the Irish can duplicate that same performance and effort this weekend, they should walk away with a pair of victories over an inconsistent 10-11-5 Miami squad. 
The Redskins enter tonight's game with the league's lowest scoring offense. Junior center Kevyn Adams (27 points) and senior center Andrew Miller (26 points) have produced all year long, but the rest of the team has struggled. 
The Irish should have little problem shutting down Miami's offense. Defensemen Garry Grubber, Brian Welch and Jeremy Coe are playing their best hockey of the season. 
"If we can limit their scoring opportunities and keep the pressure on them for the entire 60 minutes, we should have a successful .weekend," said Grubber. 
At the other end of the floor, the Redskins boast one of the CCHA's top goaltenders in se­nior Charles Thuss. He has limited opponents to just a 2.71 goals-against average while compiling a 9-6-5 record. 
Coming off perhaps their strongest offensive game of the season, Notre Dame should be up to the challenge. The Irish displayed a balanced scoring attack last Saturday with Brett Bruininks, Terry Lorenz, Jamie Ling, Tim Harberts, and Lyle Andrusiak contributing goals in the victory. 
"We had a lot of guys step up for us," said Schafer. "It was a great win that everybody had a part in." 
Irish fans will find out this 
weekend if it is indeed the 
dawn of a new era, or if this 
rising sun will take the ground­
hog's cue and fall back into 
hiding. 

"Enjoy a unique experience in Oriental Dining" 
e Fresh Ingredients e lunch Specials starting at $3.50 
include: egg roll, soup and tea e Dinners starting at $5 e Private Dining Booths e Custom cooking with no MSG e Vegetarian Menu e 15 Years of Service Award 
For Reservations & Carry Out Call: 
272-6702 
For Dine-In Delivery Call: 
272-2328 
~~ieh,t~l~-e~P-~~e,~j::..___~~ 

..­
VARSITY SHOP 
... ~ 

Betty Blue 
Sunday, February 5 
Baxter 
Monday, February 6 
'Jtn irrestible tale  Times  
"Betty Blue ·  film since  
News  

Camille Claudel 
Tuesday, February 7 
The film 
Sugar Cane Alley poverty 
Wednesday, February 8 
Boyfriends & Girlfriends 
Thursday, February 9 Set in the satellite city of Girlfriends is one of the s in Rohmer's series of Co 
Friday, February 10/7:00 p.m./ Joyce ACC 

BILL WATTERSON 
ilGt.R '5\'RA'f.ll\NG IN 1\\E S\}~ I 
FA'5\ ASLITP, 1-1\'5 D"-'< \5 Do~t.. 
Lii~C.:. 1\I:.Rt., 'IW"C:. W~\1.1'11\\ l-It. SO\JG\\1. 
Tt\t. SU~ \-11\S M"Dt. \1\'S \IJ\'1\l-11'< \-\OT 
01-\t. S"-'i> F~C.T 1-\'c OVE.RLOOKE.D: 

DILBERT 

I'/'\ Df\ES~ING LIKE A MAN TO PROTEST TI-lE COMPANY'S 
DRESS CODE.. 
C~OSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Kind of music notation
1 Mischief-maker 32 Sunburn 
1 Pokes 
soother 13 Snub 
33 Music 14 Cartoon tot Appreciation, for one
15 Shocks 
17 Guinea pigs 
18 Numbers on a letter 
19 Go-aheads 
20 Bluejackets 
22 Comedian Olsen 
23 With a whole new appearance 
27 Big Bill of the court 

35 Lead-in for flops or hertz 36 Certain crimes 38 Domain for Athena 40 Cleaned, in a way 42 Ending with pay or plug 43 Preparing, with "up" 46 Famously cold Maine town 
i ~ 
'"' 
:0: 
< 
c 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
SO. WHAT YOU'R-E 
SA'IING IS THAT YOU'R-E ACTUALLY A WOMAN. IS Tl-\AT YOUR CLA-II"\? 


Puzzle by Frank A. Longo 
26Ancient Khuzistan 
49 "Step on the gas!" 52 Fruity beverage 53 Electron tube 54 "The Gathering" star 55 Plants used in ropemaking 56 Slip 57 Tantrums 
DOWN 
1 ~~ Brothers (old film slapstick team) 
2 Cultural opening 3 Fractures 4 Tete-a-tete s Fancy cabinet 6 S.A.T. taker's need 7 Shropshire mothers 8 Landlords 9 Tropical kernels 10 Attentive 11 Biblical verb 12 Mouth off 

16 Hauler 
21 All together 
24 Pleading the 
Fifth 25 Edible rootstock 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
27 Filing aids 28 Pelvic bones 29 Type of 
statistical distribution 30 Most pernicious 
34Texas~~ 
37 Swaziland's capital 39 Crackbrained 
CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 

"I rigged up the phone so you can talk while you're cooking." 
''II The Women's Film Festival Week presents "Alien" this Sun~ay at 7 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre. Admission is free, and a short discussion will follow. It is sponsored by the Women's Resource Center. Junior Parents Weekend Information Meeting will be held Sunday at 8 p.m., and will be broadcasted live on WVFI 640AM. Call in with your questions to the JPW panel, 1-6400. A Mock LSAT will be administered on Saturday, February 4th from 8:30-11:30 a.m. in 127 Nieuwland. A Kaplan teaching session follows from 11:30-12:30 p.m.. The Mock LSAT is free to Pre-Law Society members, and others who wish to take the test will be charged a nomi­nal fee. Registration is in 101 O'Shag and in 127 Nieuwland. Volunteers Are Needed for crews of ''She Stoops to Conquer" on February 16, 17, and 18. There will be three crews: a loading crew for February 16, a running crew for all performances, and a load-up crew for February 19; To sign up, or for more information, call Tom Barkes, 1·5956.  
k'·.,:z:...1~{4ii'i'~ib··· Notre Dame ...,.:,:~w SOUTH DINING HALL Baked Catfish/Cheese Sticks Mississippi Fried Catfish Beef Bourguignon NORTH DINING HALL Bratwurst with Peppers & Onions Chicken & Dumplings Potato Skins w!fopping Bar Saint Mary's Sweet and Sour Pork Chicken Fajitas Fried Catfish  
RECYCLE THE OBSERVER  

• 
THAT'::, 
NOT EXACrLY Tf.IE 
44 St. Olaf's subjects 45 More than a murmur 46 For G, e.g. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
I SAW "TI-lE CP--YTNG GAME'' 
DON'T DO ANYTHING TI-IAT WOULD MAKE ME 
!-\EAVE. 
\_ 
48 Baltic Sea feeder 50 "Monty Python" regular 51 1979 Nastassja Kinski role 

SPORTS 

page 24 Friday, February 3, 1995 
Going to California 
defeated Indiana and Xavier, Joyce Center. one-point more than his team­match up with the explosive
UCLA presents 
but lost to San Diego and College player of the year leading average. And Keith Bruins. But Notre Dame never Dayton and dangled a victory candidate Ed O'Bannon leads Kurowski is still recovering seems to have the talent totoughest test of in front of Iona's face before the Bruins with 20 points and from a post-operative infection match up and has somehow pulling it away in the final 8.5 rebounds per game. after a laser surgery procedure managed to split the last 10 
season for Irish minutes. O'Bannon's younger brother, to correct a heart problem. meetings with UCLA. It's a wishy-washy bunch, Charles, averages about 15 Marcus Young and Matt Last year, after the Bruins
By JASON KELLY which is why a win Sunday points. Gotsch have been an effective mocked the Irish during pre­
Associate Sports Editor 
seems possible. Notre Dame is Solid, 7 -foot center George tandem in the post, but they game warmups, out-manned consistent only in its ability to Zidek is a formidable presence don't seem to have the bulk to Notre Dame responded theNotre Dame will be a signifi­play to the level of its oppo­inside and shifty point guard bang with Zidek. with a convincing 16-pointcant underdog Sunday on the 
nent. Tyus Edney is among the best Point guard Lamarr Justice win.
road against No. 7 UCLA. And, On Sunday, that level will be in the nation. has been the team's most con­This will be the 43rd game in if college basketball has any very high. The Irish answer with a sistent performer and he is one one of college basketball's
semblance of sanity left, the 
The Bruins are probably the freshman as their leading scor­of the few Irish players that most storied rivalries. It is oneprognosticators will probably most talented team on Notre er and their top player off the compares athletically to of the few series that Notreprove to be accurate. 
Dame's schedule, with the pos­bench still out of action. Pat UCLA's thoroughbreds. Dame will continue when itProblem is, Notre Dame (13­sible exception of Kentucky, Garrity scored 14 points Notre Dame simply doesn't enters the Big East next sea­
7) never listens to the forecast­
next Saturday's guest at the against Iona Wednesday, about appear to have the talent to son.
ers. This is the same team that 
$fvs UCLA 
While center Matt Gotsch (left) will be stuck having to deal with Bruin big man George Zidek all game, guard Lamarr Justice (right) is Notre Dame's only hope to keep up with UCLA's fast break offense, led by guard Tyus Edny. 
Photos by The Observer/Brandon Candura 
• fOOTi'HU.l RECRUITING 
Receiver takes final place in Notre Dame class of 1999 
By MIKE NORBUT nation's attention one more time? That definitely is true. There is plenty Derrick Mayes, who made up the major­Associate Sports Editor "He is worth waiting on," Irish coach to say about this athlete. ity of the Notre Dame offense last sea­Lou Holtz said Wednesday. He seemed The 6-5, 205-pound wide receiver son. 
Wednesday was National Signing Day. to be walking on eggs at the press con­caught 109 passes during his career, 44 Quarterback Ron Powlus suffered dur­Thursday was officially Randy Moss ference, which is understandable con­of which went for touchdowns. He led ing the season with only one reliable Signing Day. sidering he WI}S not even positive as of his high school to two state football target, and was forced to take many 
It's only fitting that the USA Today All­two days ago whether or not Moss championships in three seasons, and sacks that could have been avoided had American and highest rated wide receiv­would sign. And because of NCAA regu­was also a state champion in track. he had a secondary receiver. er in the country would choose to have lations, he was not allowed to comment It was Holtz, who is originally from Moss turned down offers from his own day to sign on with Notre Dame, on the recruit in any manner. Follansbee, West Virginia, that influ­Tennessee, Florida, and Ohio State in who already boasts the number one "I'm not allowed to say anything about enced the receiver's final decision to favor of Notre Dame. He joins teammate recruiting class in the nation. Randy Moss," the coach said. "But by attend Notre Dame. Bobby Howard, a two-year, all-state 
He stole the spotlight from the nation my not being able to talk just saved Moss is expected to be given an selection at linebacker, as two of the 25 during his high school career. So why about a half hour out of this press con­opportunity to start for the Irish next players to join the Irish recruiting class not take an extra day in order to get the ference." year. across from junior standout of 1999. 

of note...
IRISH TRACK AND FIELD 
In ACC action last night, North
The Notre Dame track and field teams are 
Carolina edged out Duke 102-100 
hosting the Meyo Invitational this Saturday at 
in double overtime. 
the Loftus Center. 











