
Tuesday, February 7, 1995 • Vol. XXVI No. 81 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
·Involvement encouraged by candidates 
By LIZ FORAN 
A;;odatt News FJiwr 
and KRIST! KQLSKI 
A;;i,t.llll News Editor 
lnert~ast~d participation in student government by students was the dominant theme of the majority of tirkets in the stu­dent government presidential debates last night. 
Candidates began by stating their campaign platforms and tlwn answering questions from Seholastie, WSND and The Ob­server. Hanging from security coneerns to student celebra­tions, all candidates expressed a desire to involve more stu­dents in deciding what student government can do for them. 
CentBring on concerns about forced finals and taxi coupons, tho Alejandro Montoya and George Fischer ticket asked what students really want from student government. 
"Ask yourself. are these re­ally things that I want or needT' Montoya said. As far as plans toward their goals were concerned, Montoya stated that the plan for not requiring all professors to give a final exam gn~w from a sociology project. 
Montoya said that the results of the projeet showed "many professors don't want to give finals." yet the University re­quires them. 
"We have already spoken to different deans, the esc. and Monk (University President Fa­ther Edward Malloy) himself," Montoya sajd, "and they are 
~ref. NOTRE DAME 
'Pf'ELECTIONS 
OBSERVER ENDORSES KLAU·HERCZEG 

• 
See endorsement on page 8 

• 
Look for more information, candid­ate profiles in tomor­row's Viewpoint section 



willing to work with us. Give the professors a chance. Many of them are willing to try the idea if the students are willing." 
Security was one of the main concerns addressed by the Stacey Kielbasa/Todd Leahy ticket, along with a proposal to start a program allowing stu­dents to spend a day in the of­lice. with an alumni of their ca­reer interest. A 72 hour guar­antee, which promised that any comments from students would be answered within the three day period, was also proposed. 
Kielbasa and Leahy also pro­posed a taxi service as part of a Safe Ride program which would allow students "to go out and have fun, without having to worry about safety." 
"If you let us worry about se­curity, you can go off campus, relax, and have a good time," Kielbasa said. 
The Jonathan Patrick/Dennis McCarthy ticket promised to help WVFI in thetr pursuit to become an FM radio station and to have weekly "fireside chats" to discuss issues and ideas with students. 
"We want to amplify the voic­es not being represented as well as they should be," Patrick said. 
Patrick said that he and Mc­Carthy have already spoken with officials at WVFI about what needs to be done to achieve this goal. "The admin­istration needs to be shown that there is student support for 




0 'Hara called 
on to explain 


decision 
By EDWARD IMBUS News Writer 
The CLC wasted no time in initiating discussion regarding the administration's decision to expel the Gay and Lesbians of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College (GLND/SMC) from the University Counseling Center last week as well as the larger issues that decision sparked. 
The Council voted to recog­nize and support the efforts of GLND/SMC and to ask Vice­President of Student Affairs and ex officio CLC member Patricia O'Hara to attend the next meet­ing in order to explain in per­son her decision not to rec­ognize GLND/SMC. 
O'Hara must respond to the approved resolutions within seven days, in accordance with the CLC guidelines, which were written and approved by the Board of Trustees in order to facilitate official discussion be­tween students and the admin­istration on mattters affecting student affairs. 


The Observer/ Tina Lemker 
The initial proposal called upon the CLC to "recognize, support, and respect the efforts

Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students prepare for their pointe 
of GLND/SMC," and the second

class held at Saint Mary's. 
I .,. 
!'..
., 
..' 


,....~·. 
..... !
... 
I

. . -••..( 
\

' •...• 



The Observer I Scott Mendenhall 
Vice-presidential candidate Dennis McCarthy makes a point during last night's student government debates. McCarthy is running with fellow Flanner Hall co-president John Patrick. 
WVFI." 

The platform of Kevin Klau and Larissa Herczeg seeks to increase the collective student voice in administrative matters by pushing for a student repre­sentative on the Board of Trustees. "They spend our money; they organize the schedule of events. We want a say in that." 
The ticket was also in favor of installing access to cable televi­sion in all dorm rooms and has done research on the cost of 
see DEBATE I page 6 
• CAMPUS liFE CouNCil 

GLND/SMC. recognized in vote 
asked the CLC to "condemn the University's action to expel GLND/SMC from campus and call upon the University to rec­ognize GLND/SMC as an inte­gral part of the Notre Dame community deserving of all rights and privileges afforded other campus groups." 
It was signed by GLND/SMC chairman John Blandford, Stu­dent Body Vice President Matt Orsagh, and CLC members Nikole Neidlinger, the off-cam­pus co-president, Bridget Conley, the Student Union Board (SUB) Manager, Dean of the College of Arts and Letters Ava Collins, Hall Presidents' Council co-chair Rich Palermo, and Student Body President Dave Hungeling. 
The Council approved the first resolution 13-2, with one abstention, but rejected the second by a vote of 8-3 with five abstentions. The resolution requesting O'Hara to attend the next meeting was orally pro­posed in the course of yester­day's meeting, and was passed 15-1. 
Because of the CLC's author­ity to serve as the official cata­lyst between the students and the administration, all resolu­tions must have a two-thirds majority of the voting members present, as ordered by the Trustees. 
Blandford charged that the administration, by no longer al­lowing the unofficial club to use the Counseling Center, had taken away the only "safe space," in his words, on cam­pus for gays and lesbians to meet as a support group. 
He argued that allowing GLND/SMC to use the Health Center was similar to the typi­cal reponses of other Catholic universities in the United States, which he described as the "don't ask, don't tell" poli­cy, alluding to the US military policy's simplified nickname. 
Continuing, Blandford said that gays and lesbian groups had been officially recognized at other Catholic Universities as well, naming Georgetown, Fordham, and Catholic Univer­sity as examples. 
Noting the "disproportionate rates of suicide, alcoholism, and drug use," among homo­sexuals, Blandford said that a gay and lesbian club would be extremely helpful for homo­sexuals at Notre Dame as a support group in order to fill the pastoral need he claimed was lacking through Campus Ministry. 
Assistant Vice President for Resident Life William Kirk, the senior administration official on the Council, stated that the Uni­versity had not shifted its standing policy towards GLND/SMC. He said that the administration had misunder­stood the way the Counseling 
see CLC I page 4 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, February 7, 1995 

Hollywood 
offers us 


heroines 
In light of last semes­ter's eruption of gender tension, it might be inter­esting to see what many women value and look for in role models. Contrary to popular opinion and prime-time broadcasting, it is not Lindsey Wagner in a Ford or starring in the latest Danielle Steele noveVmini-series-sex objects and dependent wives just aren't what I had in mind. Strength, integrity, self-assurance, grace, ele­gance and compassion are just a few charac­teristics that make a true leading lady. Michelle Pfeiffers and Sharon Stones come and go, while only a few have the right stuff of legends like Katherine Hepburn and Lauren Bacall. 
We have all heard stories about there not being enough quality scripts out there for strong leading women, but there is something to this recurring problem-a problem that goes far beyond the screen. Maybe it is because of their popularity or high visibility, but actresses-in recent years-have led the way for women's rights and respect in ways that corporate executives, community leaders, politicians and popular authors have failed. 
But what does this have to do with gender relations at NO? Plenty. These women did not one day wake up and decide to run the show. These women experienced what almost every woman in the western world encounters at some point in her life-feelings of forced inferiority, sexual harrassment or stereotyping, or the "little woman" syndrome. This is not to infer that every guy is a chau­vinist pig and that every woman should be Gloria Steinem. Only that there is a reason why so many women look up to Susan Sarandon, Glenn Close, Jodie Foster, Winona Ryder, Oprah Winfrey. These are real women who not only have succeeded in a bastion of male influence, but have also demonstrated the unlimited potential of every person-male or female. 
Now is not the time to recount the centuries of chauvinism, but it is the time to think about and look beyond the seeming annoyance of inclusive language and awareness to see the real issue: oppression. After all, who would even think of writing "nigger" instead of "African American" today? The issue is the same. While we're at it, let's not make the same mistakes today at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's by being exclusive to our gay and lesbian friends and family. The issue is the same. 
Maybe I'm reading too much into the influ­ence of these Hollywood heroes, but in a time that sees so much cultural destruction and digression I find it refreshing and hopeful. I would like to think I get my money's worth when I go to the movies, and I know I have when I see films like "Thelma and Louise," "When a Man Loves a Woman," "Little Women," "The Prince of Tides," "The Silence of the Lambs." 
Popular culture has much to offer us, if we are willing to look with care and concern. Despite the O.J. debacle and other sordid sto­ries that pass themselves for entertainment, Hollywood does produce art-art that makes us feel and think and change. Don't let hall notes and anti-gay graffiti scare you off. 
The -views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TODJW'S STAFF  
News  Production  
Jamie Heisler  Susan Marx  
Gwendolyn Norgle  Jackie Moser  
Spons  
Dave Treacy  Accent  
Viewpoint  Jenny Gunzelman  
Rae Sikula  Lisa Monaco  
Lab Tech  Graphics  
Eric Ruethling  Chris Mullins  


The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday excepr during exam and vacarion periods. The Observer is a member of the Associared Press. All reproducrion righ!S are reserved. 

• Wmu.o AT A. GlANCE 
Republicans see close vote for budget amendment 
WASHINGTON 
The Senate enters its second week of debate on the balanced budget amendment with Democrats demanding to know how the budget will be balanced and a key Republican saying today that "we're really close" to getting the needed votes. 
"We've got almost all the Republicans voting for it. All we need are 15 Democrats," Sen. Orrin Hatch, chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, said today. "If we can get 15 Democrats we'll pass it," he said. "We're pretty confident that we're close to that and I believe the people throughout this country are going to raise such Cain that they'll get enough Democrats for us to pass it this time," Hatch said on "CBS This Morning." 
The White House, which released its 1996 budget proposal today, reiterated its opposition to the amendment, saying Republicans have refused to specify how they would balance the budget. 
Sen. Robert Byrd, 0-W.Va., the principal opponent of the constitutional amendment, said Sunday that making the cuts necessary to hal­ance the budget would devastate programs for 
···.T······ 
Breakdown "-Y'>"''ws.-.... ··-·· 
'·~·­
""'"'""' "10%04%01her 32%;M<;: ;:.~ 
"1a%"g/ =:­
s;;:;;;;.;;,.,."'...,;._..,;,......, AP 

or five weeks" to make sure Americans under­stodod the consequences of requiring a balanced bu get. 
This week, Democrats are likely to propose changes in the amendment that would exempt Social Security from future budget considera­tions and demand that Congress explain what cuts will be made to balance the budget by 2002. Republicans label both as diversionary tactics meant to prevent passage of the amend­ment. 
The House passed the amendment on Jan. 26 by 300-132, eight votes more than the two-thirds majority needed. If 67 senators vote for it, the amendment will go to the states, where three-fourths of state legislatures must ratify it for it to become the 28th amendment to the Constitution. 
Byrd concurred with Republican leaders in predicting that the vote "could go either way." 
Senate Majority Whip Trent Lott, R-Miss., told CBS' "Face the Nation" that 52 Republicans -all but Sen. Mark Hatfield of Oregon -are committed to the amendment. 
With Democratic help, the yes votes number between 65 and 70, he estimated. 
the elderly, veterans and the environment. Byrd said he  Lott agreed with Byrd that Senate debate may  
would not try to stall action on the amendment, as he did  continue for another three or four weeks, but pledged,  
last month on legislation to end unfunded federal man­ "We are going to do whatever it takes to get it passed,  
dates but promised it would take another "three or four  and in the end we will get the 67 votes required."  
Pope considers writing an encyclical  Hero wants to meet Marion Barry  
VATICAN CITY  KANSAS CITY, Mo.  
Encouraged by landmark progress in Jewish-Catholic  When 16-year-old Mychael Ramsey learned he had  
relations, an American Jewish group asked Pope John  been invited to Washington to receive a hero's medal for  
Paul II to write an encyclical enshrining church opposi­ pulling three people from a burning house, he had a spe­ 
tion to anti-Semitism. The pope "listened to me very  cial request: a meeting with Mayor Marion Barry. What  
patiently," American Jewish Committee president Robert  has happened to Mychael since then sounds like some­ 
S. Rifkind said Monday of the group's audience with the  thing out of Barry's own life. He's been arrested for mari­ 
pope. John Paul said the request would be "very careful­ juana possession, and the honor he covets may be taken  
ly studied in the Vatican. He said that twice," Rifkind  away. Last month, the Justice Department said it was  
said. An encyclical is reserved for the most important  reconsidering its announcement that Mychael would get  
papal declarations. The New York-based group also  a 1993 Young American Medal for Bravery. Now  
urged the pope to grant Jewish scholars and Catholic his­ Mychael's playing a waiting game, bracing for another  
torians access to documents about the Holocaust con­ blow in a life that's already seen more than its share of  
tained in Vatican archives and said both sides should  hardship. He professes a lack of concern about getting  
unite against revisionists who sow doubts about the mass  the award. "I just think if I do, I do," Mychael said in an  
extermination of Jews. Monday's audience, the group's  interview last week. "If I don't, I don't. It's not like I'm  
third in 10 years, was granted to mark the 30th anniver­ going to go back home and cry or something. I just be  
sary of a Church document that paved the way for over­ thankful for all the other awards I got." Still, he doesn't  
coming 2,000 years of mistrust between Jews and  hide his excitement. "How many young black people do  
Catholics. That led to establishment of formal Vatican­ you know get the opportunity of a lifetime to go to  
Israeli ties in late 1993.  Washington, to sit down and talk with the president, eat  
with him, do stuff like that?" he asked.  
Fraternity house burns in Ohio  'Free Willy' whale moving to Oregon  
ADA, Ohio  MEXICO CITY  
A fire raced through an Ohio Northern University fra­ This time he has a reason to leap. Keiko, the killer  
ternity house early today, injuring 15 people, five serious­ whale made famous by the ftlm "Free Willy," is heading  
ly. The cause of the fire was not known but it appeared  toward a new home in Oregon and eventual freedom, his  
to have started on the second floor of the three-story  owners announced Monday. The Heino Aventura amuse­ 
Sigma Pi house, Fire Chief Jay Eply said. He described  ment park where Keiko has lived for the past decade  
the floor, where the students sleep, as "unlivable."  signed an agreement donating the 3.5-ton mammal to the  
Three students were being treated for burns and smoke  Free Willy-Keiko Foundation, which plans to eventually  
inhalation at Memorial Hospital in Lima. They were  free him in waters off Iceland after a rehabilitation peri­ 
admitted in serious condition but have since been  od at the Oregon Coast Aquarium in Newport. The  
upgraded to fair, university spokesman Monty Siekerman  amusement park said the 15-year-old whale, captured off  
said. He identified those students as Dave Mortimer, 18,  Iceland at age 2, has performed for some 12 million visi­ 
Stephen Fugi, 20, and Michael Basile, 20. Two other stu­ tors over the past 10 years. Efforts to free him have been  
dents, David Gatchel, 21, and Michael Coonfare, 21, were  underway since the Warner Bros. film was released in  
in serious condition in the burn unit at St. Vincent  1993. "Keiko will be the only captive orca whale that  
Hospital in Toledo, Siekerman said. Nine students and a  doesn't have to do shows or perform," David Phillips,  
security guard who complained of chest pains were treat­ director of the foundation, said at a news conference  
ed at hospitals and released.  Monday.  


VII Associated Press  
Atlanta  41  18  
Baltimore  23  05  
Boston  11  03  
Chicago  19  03  


VIa Associated Pross Graph/csNet 01995 Accu·Weather, Inc. 
Columbus 17 04 



Pressure 

H L m ISS! In] 0 . IZ3 ~ (:t ~ u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOIJ[f( 
The Accu-Weather®forecast for noon, Tuesday, Feb. 7. 
Unes separate high temperature zones for the day. 
Dallas  66  33  New Orleans  58  35  
Denver  59  25  New York  20  16  
Los Angeles  71  52  Philadelphia  20  05  
Miami  65  59  Phoenix  76  50  
Minneapolis  16  -Q3  St. Louis  25  14  


Tuesday, February 7, 1995 
• BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 

BOG will sponsor Shakespeare play 
By MYRNA MALONEY Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
The Not So Royal Shake­speare Company's production of "As You Like It" will be co­sponsored by the Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG) af­ter a unanimous vote was reached at yesterday's BOG meeting. 
The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's student run club will perform the play at the Saint Mary's campus clubhouse on March 24-26, free of charge to all stu­dents this year as in years past, according to Amanda Rafuse, a Company representative. 
"BOG will donate $250, which will help to finance the publicity and rental equipment for the company," said Student Body President Noha El­Ganzouri. 
Because BOG will co-sponsor the performances along with the Notre Dame London Pro­gram, the Not So Royal Shake­speare Company will not be re­quired to pay the $75 per night rental fee for the clubhouse, according to Rafuse. 
In other BOG Business: 
•All 
students should watch for upcoming information about a faculty moderated forum between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. 

•An 
informational meeting for students who wish to run for 1995-96 class officer posi­tions will be held February 8 and 9 in Haggar Parlor. Elections will be February 21. 

•Saint 
Mary's club represen­tatives who wish to have up­coming events listed on the cal­endar in Haggar College Center should fill out information sheets located at all residence hall front desks. 

•The 
Saint Mary's Senior Formal will be held at Century Center on April 22. 


Recycle The Observer! 
The Observer • NEWS 

Catholic theologian speaks out 
VATICAN CITY 
Calling euthanasia part of a 
"culture of death," a Roman 
Catholic theologian on Monday 
denounced the acquittal of an 
American father who 
unhooked his premature 
baby's respirator. 

"With this sentence, the first 
headstone has been placed in 
another monstrous cemetery 
for the burial of unwanted 
newborns . . . dependent on ar­
tificial support systems," wrote 
Gino Concetti in L'Osservatore 
Romano, the official Vatican 
newspaper. 

Concetti said "euthanasia's 
culture of death has no limits, 
just like that of abortion, which 
is even legitimized as a means 
of birth control." 

A Lansing, Mich., court on 
Thursday acquitted Dr. 
Gregory Messenger of 
manslaughter after he pulled 
the plug on the machine keep­
ing alive his son, born 15 
weeks premature. Messenger, 
would have faced up to 15 
years prison if convicted. 

Senior Lecture Series 




TONIGHT 
COME SEE HERB TRUE SPE ABOUT LOVE Montgomery Theater Feb 7 • 7:00p.m. 

ONE UNIVERSITY CAN KEEP YOU A STEP 
MBA -INTERNATIONAL MARKETING AND FINANCE (MBNIMF) 
Intensive 18-Month Day Program 
The only ·MBA in the country that integrates contemporary marketing and financial decision making within an international business environment. Ten weeks of the program is devoted to a global business practicum with one or more multi-national corporations abroad. (GMAT required) 
Cali312J362-8810. 
MASTER OF ARTS IN INTERNATIONAL STUDIES 18-Monlh Evening Program 
This program features a curriculum in two concentrations: international political economy and global culture. Internship opportunities are available in the U.S. and abroad, including a 4-month internship with the Commission of the 
European Union in Brussels. 
Cali312J362-5367. 

Pope's funding checked 
By STEVEN PAULSON Associated Press 
DENVER 
Federal investigators have been asked to look into the use of city airport funds to pay for a documentary of Pope John Paul II's 1993 visit. 
Two vouchers totaling $7,500 were issued to the video company Let's Be Frank Productions and billed to air­port operating funds, sources speaking on condition of anonymity told The Associated Press on Monday. 
The money was used to make a 60-minute documentary on the pope's visit. It was shown on Channel 8, the city's cable television channel. 
Amy Lingg, spokeswoman for the city's Department of Public Works, confirmed part of the video's $61,000 total cost came from city airport funds, and defended the spending as justi­fied. 
"The airport played a large role in the management of the pope's visit," Lingg said, noting the airport handled the arrival of the pope and President Clin­ton, along with 200,000 visi­tors and dignitaries. 
Federal rules require that revenue raised at airports be spent only for airport purpos­es. 
The questioned vouchers were turned over to the Inspector General's Office of the U.S. Department of Transportation, the sources said. 
Documentary producer Frank Hogan said Stapleton International Airport wasn't central to the story. 
"We really didn't focus on the airport other than the arrival," Hogan said. 
The latest investigation is one of a half-dozen by federal authorities into possible diver­sion of airport funds for other city uses. 

page 3 

Powell jokes of candidacy 
By JOHN KING Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Retired Gen. Colin Powell teased a Washington audi­ence Monday night by dis­claiming any pas­sion for politics but then sug­gesting an indepen­dent can­didacy 


m i g h t Powell 
"throw some more fun" into the 1996 presidential race. 
Powell gave no indication he wanted -or planned ­to be such a candidate. But he didn't flatly rule out the prospect, either, saying he would decide about his future after finishing his memoirs. 
In an hour-long speech fol­lowed by several questions from his audience, Powell shed little new ground. He followed the script of a speech he has given dozens of times since retiring in September 1993 as chair­man of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and joining the lucra­tive lecture circuit. 
He has said in the past that an independent candi­dacy might be good for the country, and has also stuck to his pledge to finish his book before talking about his own political prospects. 
Yet Powell had his audi­ence hanging on most every word Monday night, particu­larly when the subject turned to politics, this city's official business. 
"There is no particular passion in me for politics," he said after the speech. 
The ticket of John Patrick and Dennis McCarthy is on the Student Body President and Vice President ball?t. . 
Their names were omitted from yesterday s article on the Student Government debate. The Observer sincerely regrets the error. 
AHEAD OF THE WORLD. 
The world is shrinking. And in every field of expertise, it has become apparent that the leaders for the next century must have new skills and knowledge. This is why DePaul University has developed two new and unique master's programs devoted entirely to preparing students for success on a global level. 
If you're planning to further your education, we encourage you to learn more about international programs offered by the one university that remains a step ahead m a rapidly changing world. 
For more information, phone, fax, or mail. 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------,,-~ail ro: DePaul University Office of Graduate Information, 1 E. Jackson Blvd., Chicago, IL 60604. Fax 312/362-5749 · ! 
L---------------------..----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------.J 
0  MBNIMF  0  Master of Arts in Inti. Studies  I  
NAME  SSN  ~  
,  ::H::~0A:;::ss SCHOOL PHONE  ~;:;:~:~:::: HOME PHONE  I LJND0207 l  





D E p A U L u NIVERSITY 
---~---~-~-~--~------~~--------~-------­
page4 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, February 7, 1995 
CLC 
continued from page 1 
Center was being used, and did not know that it had been used for offical GLND/SMC meetings. 
When OSA discovered that GLND/SMC was using the Counseling Center for meetings after GLND/SMC had advertised them last semester, it revoked its use in accordance with its standing policy as formed in 1986 by the former Vice Presi­dent of Student Affairs Father James Tyson and sustained in 1992 by O'Hara upon a new application by GLND/SMC. 
"There was a misunderstand­ing by the director of the Uni­versity Counseling Center . . . as to what the Office of Student Affairs had meant in their poli­cy," he said, explaining why GLND/SMC had been allowed to use the Health Center facilities for nine years without the knowledge of OSA. 
The stated rationale for that policy, according to Kirk, was that the administration felt that allowing GLND/SMC official recognition as a club was con­trary to the mission of the Un­versity, fearing that recognition would implicitly "sanction ho­mosexual lifestyles, which are definitely contrary to the Uni­versity's mission." 
The policy towards GLND/SMC, however restrictive, also affirmed "the University's determination to maintain an environment free from har­rassment for all students," Kirk said. 
All CLC members had ques­tions and comments to make on the resolutions. Collins argued that "the University is different than the administration. Peo­ple should not ally the two. The (Faculty) Senate, the GSU (Graduate Student Union) and the Theological Union have all issued resolutions supporing a gay and lesbian group on cam­pus." 
She also stated that O'Hara had given the rationale for her decision to a subcommittee of the Faculty Senate, but the Senate then rejected it as part of their resolution. 

Other members wanted more information before voting to approve the second resolution, such as the GLND/SMC constitu­tion and the bylaws of gay and lesbian organizations officially recognized at other Catholic universities. They also wanted to hear O'Hara give her reasons for denying GLND/SMC in case more reasons existed than what were presented at their meet­ing. Especially encouraging more discussion and acquiring more information were Rectors Father George Rozum, Father Terrence Linton, and Father Patrick Sullivan, and Judicial Commissioner Andrew Alfers. 
Alfers noted that though the resolution was defeated yester­day, "it can be presented again to the Council by the voting members." 
Indeed, Sullivan strongly hint­ed that more members would be willing to vote for a resolu­tion encouraging the admin­stration to recognize GLND/SMC if more information was pre­sented for review. 
The exact position of the Catholic Church was also dis­cussed heatedly by several members, including rectors and student members. North Quad Student Senator Sean Sullivan asked what clergy members of the Council felt would be the position of the Church hier­archy, but the members in 
Terrorist demands freedom from French 
By CHRISTOPHER BURNS 
Associated Press 
PARIS 
Nearly six months after his capture, Carlos the terrorist appeared in court Monday to demand his freedom, saying that the French government had kidnapped him in Sudan. 
In a closed-door hearing, the court rejected the request and turned down Carlos' demand that proceedings be 
open  to  the  public.  His  
lawyers  said  they  would  
appeal.  

Arriving in a heavily guard-

question declined to speculate. 
Alfers brought up the pos­sibility of a special CLC meeting for next week, but it was unclear whether or not the Council would indeed meet then or continue with its regular bi­weekly schedule. 
ed blue van, Carlos was whisked inside the Palace of Justice as edgy police with bulletproof vests and subma­chine guns stood guard. 
The hearing concerned a train bombing that killed three people and injured 26 in December 1983. A related attack in the Marseille train station the same day left two dead there. 
The court rejected Carlos' plea to be released pending trial, his lawyers said. It also denied his request to open the proceedings on grounds of "public security." 
For your singing pleasure, give 
#32 



©~®[M)®llil~ ~~®~®§ 
a call! 

SATISFACTION GUARANTEED: 
If I don't sing it, my brother Sim (#38) will! 

Are you against drunk driving? Do you want to make a difference? 

for our first meeting of the semester~ February 7 at 8:00p.m. in the Dooley Room of LaFortune. We will be planning events for the semester. 
New members encouraged to attend. 
--~----~--._..... 
Tuesday, February 7, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 

U.S.-Russian rendezvous first in twenty years 
By MARCIA DUNN 
Russia's space station ~~~~~~eo;~~.~ =~~,:.a~,e~r't;·;~~=~=ule 
Associated Press 
tlodunQ pori was launched in 1986. Soyuz and Progress larry 118hicles are routinely launched lo Mir to deliver fresh craws and supplies. 

T~~~­
Kv•nt-1 

docMingportibfant.-. 
AatmphysicsmodJIII Length: 39ft. (12 rnetem) Length(fJitlblers) Launched: 1990 
Launched: 1987 

Soyuz·
-
-
Kv•nt-2 
..,._,.._...,....._ 
Lenglh(lll4!mel.,.) 
Leunchect 1989 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. 
Two 100-ton spaceships -the biggest ever to converge in space -flew in formation just 37 feet apart Monday in the first U.S.­Russian rendezvous in 20 years. 
"Unbelievable," Discovery's com­mander said. "Almost like a fairy tale," Mir's commander said. 
It almost didn't happen. Russian space officials gave in at the last minute, allowing Discovery and its crew of six to creep close despite fears that a leaking jet would dam­age equipment on Mir. 
"We are bringing our spaceships closer together. We are bringing our nations closer together," Discovery's commander, James Wetherbee, said at the moment of closest approach in the mission, a dress rehearsal for the first shut­tle-Mir docking in June. 
Wetherbee repeated his message in Russian for the benefit of the three Mir cosmonauts, and station commander Alexander Viktorenko replied that all nine space travelers were involved in the "greatest pro­fession God could give anyone." 
The moment, he said, was "almost like a fairy tale ... almost too good to be true." 
Later, after it was all over, President Clinton called Discovery from the Oval Office to con­gratulate the astronauts. 

"We're all so impressed," Clinton said. "This really proves, I think, that Russians and Americans can work together and that we can make this international space sta­tion project successful. I can't tell you how much I appreciate all the work that all of you have done to that end." 
The encounter began 245 miles above the Pacific Ocean and lasted just 13 minutes, climaxing at 2:20 
p.m. EST as both spaceships cir­cled Earth at 17,500 mph. 
Spectacular video scenes beamed down from Mir showed Discovery just 400 feet away and closing. 
A corner of the sprawling Mir station could be seen in some shots, with a cloud-covered, blue planet as the backdrop. 

Notre Dame Communication and Theatre with The Acting Company present: 
~STOOPS r£2 

CONQ1JER 
BY OLIVER GOLDSMITH 
Performed by the juilliard School Drama Division 
Thurs., Feb. 16, 8 pm Fri., Feb. 17, 8 pm Sat., Feb. 18, 8 pm 
Reserved Seats $14 Students and Senior Citizens $10 
Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the, LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office 
MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128 
@EJACTING

COMPANY 
.rltt.-1_... 0... ~ 
lEWA m:HANI>IER "!ARGOT HARLI::Y 
Art18h<' Dnf'rl!lf F.al'<'uhn Produt;t'r 



Observer Marketing Department 
Put your talents to work! 


Client Servke 
positions 
• 
Are you creative? 

• 
Do you enjoy good advertising? 

• 
Would you like to promote the accounts of local businesses? 

• 
Are you hard-working? 




Artists & Designers 
• 
Are you interested in commercial design? 

• 
Would you like the 


opportunity to work with the Observer's Marketing team? 
• 
Would you like your work to be seen daily by 13,000 readers? 

• 
Are you hard-working? 



The Observer is welcoming resumes for the above paidpositions until Friday, February 
10. Ifyou have any questions contact Tom Lillig at 631-8839. 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, February 7, 1995 


Debate 
continued from page 1 
installation as well as individ­ual student costs. 
"We will work so that you can have the channels you want at the price you want," Klau said. 
Simplicity is the main premise of the Matthew Golish and Robert Brett campaign. By cutting the student budget and allowing students to vote for how the money is to be spent, they advocated "giving student government back to students." 
Golish told the audience that he and Dave Hungeling had spent many hours going over the student government budget. "They give away money to any­one who asks," he said. 
The ticket claims that by cut­ting wasteful expenditures, they can save $40,000 in a $70,000 budget. 
"It's your money," Golish said. "You pay $55 a year and about $20,000 in tuition, and we want you to decide what to spend it on." 
The Golish/Brett ticket also proposes to buy off-campus houses in the same area in or­der to have communities of stu­dents living in the same area. 
"This would increase the so­cial aspects of off-campus liv­ing," he said. However the ma­jor problem lies in the zoning laws. 
"Most of the area from Hill Street to Peter Street (the pro­posed sight) is an A zoning dis­trict, which means that only two unrelated people can live in one house," he said. 
In order to have student houses in the area, the South Bend zoning laws would need to be changed to B zones, which would allow for up to six unrelated people in one home. 
Jennifer Allen and James Delaney want to put govern­ment "back in your hands," with efforts to increase contact with students and their in­volvement in decisions. 
Through a cab coupon pro­gram, an ATM machine in the Mod Quad and a Winter Festival sponsored by the Student Union Board, the ticket seeks to address the needs of students. 
Coupon books, of which stu­dents would be required to pay half of the cost, would be sold at LaFortune as an alternative to driving after a night out. 
"We want to be a hands-on resource," Allen said. "We want to hear from you and work with you." 
The Michelle Mudry/Jennifer Szarek ticket centers on social issues on campus, including dating and gathering concerns. The team proposed a dance club in LaFortune and a cam­pus wide dating service. 
"The ND Love Connection," as the service would be known, and the dance club would "encourage healthy atmosphere for all students and make it easier for students to interact," the team claimed. 
"We think gender issues on campus are very important," Szarek said. 
When debate was opened to the floor for questions, the issue regarding the disqualifi­cation of the Patrick and McCarthy ticket was raised. 
Patrick and McCarthy were originally disqualified by the Student Government Election Committee after four other tick­ets petitioned to have them removed from the ballot. The petition was based on the fact that Patrick and McCarthy had turned in forms declaring their intent to run 48 hours after the scheduled deadline. 

Patrick and McCarthy ap­pealed to the to the Student Senate and their disqualifica­tion was overturned. 
The four tickets who signed to petition were asked to acknowledge themselves and questioned regarding their rea­sons for the petition. 
The tickets of Allen and De­laney, Klau and Herczeg, and Montoya and Fischer admitted signing the petition on the premise that it was only a com­plaint and noted that the Election Committee made the final decision. 
The ticket of Kielbasa and Leahy later commented that those who signed the petition agreed not to disclose names and that they "didn't want to make it a personal issue." 
The Mudry and Szarek ticket also commented later that they did not sign the petition on the basis that they felt "the issue was not a big deal and they didn't want to keep anyone from running." 
All tickets were asked how they would help to foster rela­tions between the Administra­tion and the GLND/SMC com­munity. Most groups addressed the fact that the issue deals with church doctrine but that compassion should at least allow the GLND/SMC commu­nity a place to meet. 
Kielbasa and Leahy suggested an "open discussion format to deal with the animosity and to reach a compromise." 
Klau referred to his cam­paigns proposal of student fo­rums and a representative on the Board of Trustees to bring "student impact and student voice" to the administration. 
The ticket of Golish and Brett claimed that "you can have all the forums and write all the let­ters you want but there can be no compromise; it's a fact of simple human decency." They said that if elected, they would allow GLND/SMC to meet in the student government office. 
Citing it as part of their plat­form, Patrick and McCarthy hope to "voice the concerns of the student body; especially minorities." Amplifying minor­ity concerns, they feel that "compassion must be shown to the GLND/SMC community." 
The issue of cable installation was also brought to the floor. Klau and Herczeg were asked, since the cable issue is a major part of their platform, what they would do should the cable question be determined assume their leadership roles if elected. 

Herczeg claimed that the ref­erendum for cable installation will provide the administration with numbers regarding stu­dent body preference but will not determine the final out­come. 
Current Student Body Presi­dent and Vice President, "Hungeling and Orsagh, have been very persistent," said Herczeg. And she feels that the administration will need to be continually pressed on the issue of cable installation, if indeed that is what the majority of the student body wants. 

Extre01ists' bo01b kills four in Austria 
By GEORGE JAHN 

Associated Press  
VIENNA, Austria  
A bomb exploded inside a  
playground garbage container  
Monday in an ethnically mixed  
village, wounding a municipal  
worker in the latest attack at­ 
tributed to anti-foreigner ex­ 
tremists.  
The blast, which followed a  
weekend bomb nearby that  
killed four Gypsies, was the  
deadliest terrorist act in  sponsibility and expressed  
Austria since 1985.  anti-Croatian and anti-for­ 
The Austrian Interior Min­ eigner sentiments. Half of the  
istry said the weekend blast  villagers are ethnic Croats.  
was probably the work of  
rightist extremists, but had no  The explosion mangled the  
further information. It was  right hand of a man emptying  
likely, however, that Monday's  the container, the radio report  
explosion in the village of  said.  
Stinatz, near the Hungarian  The bombs were the latest  
border, also was the work of  in a series, attributed to radi­ 
radical rightists.  cal xenophobes, that first  
Austrian radio said a letter  rocked Austria more than a  
was found that claimed re- year ago.  




~OBSERVER 
is now accepting applications for 
Managing Editor 
Applicants should have strong editorial and journalistic skills and be comfortable in a management position. A basic understanding of newspaper production and expe­rience with the Macintosh system is helpful. Any full-time Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student is encouraged to apply. 
Business Manager 
Any sophomore or junior Business major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's interested 
in valuable work experience is encouraged to apply. Applicants should have strong 
interpersonal and organizational skills, and a basic understanding ofaccounting 
principles. 
Please submit a 3 page personal statement ofintent and a resume to jake Peters by Friday, February 4 at 5 p.m. For questions about the positions call Managing Editor, john Lucas at 631-4541 or Business Manager joe Riley at 631-5313. 

,_________________________________ ____ 
Tuesday, February 7, 1995 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Minimum wage discussed 
By JOHN CUNNIFF 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

It's probably too much to hope that politically tinged decisions can produce desirable economic results, but that will never stop the effort. 
A raise in the minimum wage is again up for discussion. 
It is an easy proposal to make, and sometimes only a bit harder to turn it into law. It is much more difficult, and some critics say impossible, to bring about the desired economic and social benefits from doing so. 
Politically, a sound argument exists for raising the minimum wage beyond its $4.25 level, which President Clinton says will be at a 40-year low in terms of purchasing power by next year. An increase would seem only fair. 
In economic terms, however, the ease is much more com­plex. One argument says it is ineffective, since price in­creases will negate any in­crease. Another states that any increase actually will be de­structive. 

This second argument is based partly on reasoning, partly on fact. If you're a small­business owner, it is argued, you would be disinclined to offer a rudimentary job to a willing but totally unskilled youngster if you had to meet standards set down by the gov­ernment. 
The initial cost to you, the employer, would not be the only one. You would have ex­penses for training, paperwork and perhaps insurance. You would pay the bill for errors. And, who knows, in today's so­ciety you might get sued. 
There are about 2.5 million workers affected by the mini­mum wage, and not all are 


The Observer 
is now looking for an 

Assistant Systems Manager 
Looking for someone with extensive experience supporting Macintosh computers: including networking, hardware maintenance, training, user support and general knowledge. Earn up to $40 per week. Contact Sean Gallavan 
631-8839 (work) 232-7991 (home) 

poor. Some, in fact, are not badly off at all, but simply like the idea of earning extra in­come. 
But many are indeed poor, and they need the money. Ac­cording to those who back min­imum-wage proposals, these defenseless people need the 
U.S. government to support their right to live decently. It is a sentiment widely shared. 
The difficulty with the con­tention is that it isn't fully sup­ported by the facts. Teen-age unemployment in some inner­city areas is 50 percent or high­er, and it has stayed there despite dozens of government programs. 
Is it likely that minimum wages can help such areas? They haven't in the past. It seems entirely likely that they might even cause some poten­tial employers to eliminate jobs. 
In short, the need for jobs and a decent wage is very real, but the idea of meeting the need by minimum-wage legis­lation is somewhat less real, and maybe altogether unreal. 
While wage by mandate has a poor record of effectiveness, the record could become even worse. Compelled by a more competitive marketplace, com­panies are learning to produce more with fewer workers, and that trend is destined to con­tinue. 
Those without skills are likely to find fewer opportunities in the future, no matter how good or bad business conditions might be, while those with skills will be in demand. It is a trend that still has a very long way to go. 

Junior CAPP and MIS 
Majo~s 
lor 

Summer Internships with Coopers &Lybrand L.L.P. 
Pizza and information available 7:00p.m. Tuesday, February 7 Room 210 Continuing Education Center 
Coopers & Lybrand l.l.P
Sponsored by ICoopers CAPP Honor Society and &Lybrand Ia professional services firm 
-

Please bring your resume with you 
Jury splits blame in lawsuit against hospital 
By SAMUEL MAULL 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
A jury split the blame Mon­day in a lawsuit brought by writer Sidney Zion against the hospital where his 18-year-old daughter died, accepting a de­fense that the young woman failed to reveal she had used cocaine. 
The jury technically awarded Zion and his wife, Elsa, $750,000 for their daughter's pain and suffering. But a find­ing that Libby Zion was 50 per­cent responsible for her own 1984 death means the Zions will get half that amount, $375,000. 
The jury also awarded $1 in damages. It assessed no puni­tive damages against New York Hospital and the four doctors sued by the Zions. Defense lawyer Luke Pittoni said the defendants might appeal. 
Sidney Zion, a former federal prosecutor, newspaper colum­nist and author of several books, crusaded for more than a decade to avenge his daugh­ter's death. Long before his negligence lawsuit came to trial, his daughter's death became a case study in how big city teaching hospitals treat their patients. 
Zion charged that New York Hospital overworked and undersupervised its young doc­tors in training. The case helped lead to New York becoming the first state to reg­ulate intern and resident hours. It also required more 
FREE 
ELIVERY 
Lunch and Regular Hours 

supervision by senior physi­cians. 
The Zions' lawyer, Thomas Moore, had said that hospital doctors erred when they gave Zion the painkiller Demerol to relieve her chills and fever while she was on the antide­pressant Nardi!. The two drugs produce a lethal reaction, and .. the jury found that the interac­tion may have contributed to the death. 
Defense lawyers said the care given to Libby Zion was proper, given what was known about her condition. They suggested throughout the 11-week trial that her death was caused by a cocaine reaction, possibly ag­gravated by other drugs. 
The jury found that Libby Zion was negligent in not telling hospital emergency room personnel that she also had used cocaine. 
A freshman at Vermont's Bennington College, she en­tered New York Hospital the night of March 4, 1984 with a high fever and earache. She died of undetermined causes the next morning, strapped to her bed because she had been thrashing about in convulsions. 
"It was an outrageous ver­dict," an angry Sidney Zion said Monday. "I think this jury disgraced themselves with this verdict. They disgraced jus­tice." 
"The cruelest cut of all was the cocaioo," he said. "New York Hospital, by putting out the big lie many years ago, they scored with it." 
Hours: 'Till 1 AM Sun­Thurs 'Till 2 AM Fri and Sat Lunch 11-2 

SpringSemester Special 
14 INCH 2 ITEM PIZZA -$7 INCLUDES TAX 2 -12 INCH 6 ITEM PIZZAS-$10 INCLUDES TAX 


273-3890 
~~STILL TI-lE HEST" 
"" 

VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Tuesday, February 7, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters 

Managing Editor  Business Manager  
John Lucas  Joseph Riley  
News Editor ................................ David Tyler  Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge  
Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry  Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter  
Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann  Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser  
Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery  Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan  
Photo Editor....................... Scott Mendenhall  Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig  
Saint Mary's Editor ............... Elizabeth Regan  Controller ..................................... Krlsten Martina  

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily refiect the policies of the administra­tion of either inscirurion. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900 I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
• EDITORIAL 
What about the issues? 
Effective leadership begins with the ability to define the problems and issues facing Notre Dame students. Multiculturalism, gender relations, the GLND/SMC controversy and Notre Dame-Saint Mary's relations are all at the forefront of campus concerns. 
Unfortunately, at last night's Student Body Presidential Debate, many of the competing tickets failed to even recognize the real problems, let alone begin to propose solutions to solve them. . 
For instance, it seems a little odd that the 14 people running for the highest student-held offices on campus could completely forget to talk about something as important as multicul­turalism and its effect on the ND campus. During the two hour-long debate, the issue was not mentioned in candidate speeches or platforms. 
Were we to assume that under the grand plans for a Mod-Quad ATM and a campus-wide dating game there is a blueprint to help improve cultural diversity? Or, are the seven tickets so short-sighted and hung-up on minor ideas that they completely forgot to consider the importance of issues beyond Grab and Go and a ''Blowout Bash?" 
While some focus was placed on essential problems such as safe transportation. the con­version of WVFI to FM, social activities and improved communications, these less important issues tended to dominate the discussion. 
Although they also fell into the trap of focusing on ideas over issues. the platform of Kevin Klau and Larissa Herczeg, was the most qualified, organized, and effective, Their ticket pro­posed implementable and solid ideas, but without the necessary vision that should be required from student leaders. Still. they earn the Observer's endorsement in a what has proven to be a disappointing field. 
Particularly impressive is their notion of placing a student on the Board of Trustees. The idea of students being able to initiate contact with the Board is important in developing a student voice in what has been a traditionally been a closed group. A fundamental grasp of the issues is essential for the student body to be properly represented. 
Klau's and Herczeg's experience in Student Union Board and Student Government will fur­ther define the respective roles that each organization should assume in the planning of stu­dent events. We laud the idea of streamlining organizations to improve both in terms of effi­ciency and effectiveness. 
The idea of producing Student Government accountability within its internal structure is important for creating improved responsiveness to student needs. This, along with student forums creates the open atmosphere necessary for effective government. 
Patrick and McCarthy should be commended for recognizing the need for student support of an important issue gripping the campus. Student Government represents the needs and interests of all students, and the incoming ticket must address the current GLND/SMC situa­tion in an effort to find a compromise, if not a solution. 
A word of caution about the Golish/Brett plan to give money back to the students by slash­ing the Student Government budget-the platform lacks anything resembling an original idea. Financial responsibility sounds admirable and the "blank check" approach of giving students what they want might sound attractive. Still, it is not likely that a Student Senate laundry list of expenditures would produce results in solving any of the problems plaguing the campus. While Golish's cynicism was much needed at the debate, it might hinder an effective student-administration relationship. · 
The Observer endorses Klau and Herczeg on the strength of their experience and ideas presented at the debate. Their plans for improved communications between students and their government helps lay the groundwork for an effective student government. The Observer also expresses regret that the tickets failed to identify and address many important issues. Let's hope that next year the candidates come prepared. 



Stereotypes mute NO voice 
When people find out that I'm a member of the media, they aren't surprised to find out that I lean a little to the political left. After all, we media elite types are biased liberals who never met a Republican they didn't hate. When they find out that l'm also a graduate of Notre Dame, the "Catholics' Harvard," most of them go to their pocket to make sure I haven't just lifted their wallet. 
You see, down here in the South, 

Paul Pearson 
where the Baptists are still the majority, there's a nasty rumor out that all Catholics are conserva­tives, and that we follow the Pope blindly like the good sheep we are. This may help explain why there has been only one Catholic in the White House in U.S. History. 
In fact, one person who comes to our office regularly told me once, ''I'd like you a lot better if you weren't Catholic." She hardly knows me, but I guess that's hard­ly a requirement for judging some­one, isn't it? 
This rumor applies especially to those of us who wear the NO ring, which seems to be the equivalent of a Papal Police Badge. We are all supposed to be ambassadors of the Catholic faith, defending our Church the same way dittoheads defend Rush Limbaugh's receding hairline. 
This stereotype, of course, is silly. After all, even if everyone at Notre Dame was a Roman Catholic, it would be ridiculous to believe that they all think a certain way. Besides, I don't think Christ would want us all to be unques­tioning in our beliefs. Does God get glory from the praise of mind­less monotones? 

Is it evil to question a Church Official's authority? Is there a special circle waiting for us in the inferno? 
When you get right down to it, the whole Catholic faith can be boiled down to one single com­mandment, "Love one another as I have loved you." (John 15:12) I think that is the one thing upon which the entire Church should be based. 
Now, when half the Church's population is disqu'alified from priesthood because of their gen­der, is that loving? When a Biblical passage is used to ra­tionalize hatred, is that loving? I don't think so. 
Notre Dame alumni may not all think the same way, but they all have a mission to defend the word of God as they see fit. It may make for a few arguments, but it also makes for a better Church, in the long run. 
Be it liberal or conservative, radical or conventional, our thoughts should be voiced. If we are the light of the world, then let's shine our light brightly, so that everyone, including those of us in our own see what we do and give glory to God (and Notre Dame). 
Does all this make me unworthy to wear the blue and gold? I hope not. 
Paul Pearson '93 is a former Observer news writerwho current­ly works for a trilingual newspa­per in Tampa. Florida. He can be reached through e-mail at "paulp 7 4115@aol. com. " 
GARRY TRUDEAU

• llOONESBURY 
• Quon or THE Drrr 

------, 
I 
, ..

ACCENT 
I 
Tuesday, February 7, 1995 page 9 I I 
• MEDICAL MINUTE 
~..-t:r:I-t:I«>I1
u 

L T 
F 
0 
0 
0 
s 
By RYAN J. GRABOW 
N.R.E.M.T. 
L
et's face it, we all like to eat! Unfortunately, for most of us, taste comes first. Sometimes we get lucky and like the taste of something that's good for us; howev­er, more often we like the taste of things that just don't do our bodies any good. Hopefully the following information will be helpful for you in sorting out some of your favorite foods and how often they should be a part of your diet. 
I Scream You Scream We all 
Scream for Yo Cream 

It's common knowledge that this "dessert of the gods" contains no fat or cholesterol and only a mere 16 t:alories per ounce, but to most of us the secret of this frozen miracle has remained a mystery... Until now! The secret to Yo Cream's non-fattening fame is surprisingly simple: Skim milk and non-fat milk solids. Unlike ice cream. which is usually made from fattening whole milk, Yo is made from skim milk, which con­tains so lillie fat that it isn't even list­tld. But remember, go easy on the Yo if your activity level resembles that of couch potato -it still has about 120 calories per cone (and that's not inducting the cone!) 
Chips & Salsa 
When to Say When 

Whether you're waiting for your dinner at Chi-Chi's or dipping in your dorm, there's not a huge difference in calories or fat content between various brands of Tortilla Chips, unlt~ss you are choosing between those that are fried (average 16 calo­ries per chip, 40% from fat) or those that arc baked (average 7.5 calories per chip, 11% from fat). 
If you consider an average portion of 20 chips, the difference between baked and fried is striking. While the average serving of baked chips con­tains only 150 calories, the total for chips that arc fried is a whopping 320 calories. When it comes to choosing your salsa, most brands fall between 5-8 calories per table spoon, all of these calories coming from sugar. 
Fat, Fat Go Awal' 
SnackWell's Done It! 
Oreos and Chips Ahoy! are 
on the way 
Those amazing fat-free SnackWell cookies have taken the cookie indus­try by storm. By leaving vegetable shortening (oil) out of their recipe and adding thickeners and emulsi­fiers to give their cookies body, SnackWell is able to produce a 50 calorie fat-free cookie that actually does taste good. Compared to the best-selling Oreo (53 calories each, 37% from fat) and Chips Ahoy! (53 calories, 43% fat), SnackWell cookies are a much better alternative. 
However, for those of us who don't want to sacrifice our old favorites because of concerns about fat con­tent, Oreo and Chips Ahoy have come out in Reduced Fat versions as well. The slimmer Oreo has only 46 calories per cookie, with 32% of those coming from fat, while the lighter Chips Ahoy! has trimmed down to 50 calories a cookie, with 33% of those calories derived from fat. In a blind taste test, it's pretty easy to tell the difference between the original and more. healthful ver­sions of these two favorites, but if you don't have both on hand to com­pare, you probably won't be able to tell. 
Diet Soda/Pop -Is there 
RealJy that Big a 
Difference? 
Since we've come to college, many of us have become Caffeine Junkies, consuming two liters or more of our favorite carbonated beverage daily. When this amount is taken into consideration, it makes sense that so many of us have turned or should turn to the diet version of our favorite drink. 
Compare the differences: 
Regular: Mountain Dew -170 calories, Dr.Pepper -160 cals, Pepsi -150 cals, Coke -140 cals 
Diet: Mountain Dew, Dr.Pepper, Pepsi, Coke = 0 calories 
If you have one or two cans a day, no big deal. However, if you're putting away six or seven cans a day we're talking 980 calories for Coke and 1190 calories for Mountain Dew. 
Got the Munchies? ... Be Careful What You Reach For 
Most would agree that Doritos, Pringles, and Chee-tos are tasty snacks that are bad for us, but just how bad they are depends on what we're reaching for. In the Potato Chip category, we find a 60% fat con­tent across the board. Lays brand leads the way as "Best of the Worst" with only 8 calories per chip; while Ruffles, Pringles, and most other brands give you 13 calories per chip. In the "Mystery Cheese Substance" category, Chee-tos are only 7 calo­ries per piece, while Cheese Curls/Puffs are in the 10 calorie range; both of these products un­fortunately contain 53% fat. 
Your best bet by far in the munchie category is to stick with "unbut­tered" pretzels. Dan-Dee Pretzel Rods are a slender 33 calories each, with only 10% coming from fat. What about Rice Cakes? Hands down, they are the best munchie with zero fat and only 35 calories; unfortu­nately many think they have zero taste as well. If you do happen to be a fan of rice cakes, stick with spices or fruit for flavoring -two table­spoons of peanut butter adds 100 calories to your snack, and 60% of these calories are fat! 
Going Out to Eat? ... Steer Clear of the Border, Ronald, and the King. 
Fun Food Facts The numbers speak for themselves 
Taco Bell 
Regular Taco -180 calories, 100 from fat = 55% fat, Soft Taco -223 cals, 100 from fat =45% fat; Beef Burrito -432 cals, 40% fat; Chicken Burrito -345 cals, 30% fat. 
McDonald,s 
Hamburger -250 cals, 32% fat; Quarter Pounder with Cheese -490 cals. 51% fat; Big Mac -490 cals, 49% fat; Chicken McNuggets (6) ­270 cals, 51% fat; Large Fries -400 cals, 50% fat; Small Fries • 220 cals. 50% fat; Vanilla Shake {small) -310 cals, 15% fat. 
Burger Kinl! 
Hamburger -260 cals, '15% fat; Double Cheeseburger -600 cals. 55% fat; Whopper -630 cals, 55% fat; Medium Fries • 400 cals, 45% fat; Vanilla shake-310 cals, 20% fat 
It's definitely a pain to read food labels and count calories and fat content, but consider this: Would you rather count calories and fat, or count inches and pounds? It's up to you! 
Good Luck and·Stay Healthy! 
I I 
j 
I I 
l 
l 
I I I I I 
l 
l 
• 

• Cv:::~~SURF!NG 
By AARON VILLARUZ 
Accem Writer 
T
he World Wide Web is part of the immense col­lection of data on just about anything we call the Internet. It resides on the systems of thou­sands of institutions throughout the entire world. Usually accessed through Mosaic or Nctscape, "The Web," as opposed to other browsers of the Internet sueh as Gopher and FTP, is simple, graphical, and mnploys a hypertext format which links one "page" to another through a simple point and click method. 
It's not as complicated as it might seem. E-mail is the best way to start and one of the easiest ways to familiarize yourself with the Internet environment: Anyone who's anyone e-mails on this campus nowa­days and there are plenty of people around willing and abln to gnt you started. Once you've familiarized your­self with the basics of e-mail, you just might want to go on to consider bigger and better things. You have the whole world at your fingers. That's right, with the hnlp of the World Wide Web, you can do just about anything. 
One of the br.st ways to browse and seareh the Web is through Tlw Yahoo Server, a Stanford University based Wnb Site that is just about the neatest thing you'll evnr lay pointer on. Got a friend's birthday com­Ing up that you know you will be home for? What bet­ter way to l'ind a great hometown chow-spot than launching Netscape'? That's right, launch Netscape and start cruising. "Hegional Data" is the place to go for local "Fine Dining," price lists included. As it's your friend's 21st birthday, it would probably be a 
Unks lrom Netscape 
The Yahoo Server http://akebono.stanford.edu/yahoo 
The Koresh Paper gopher://wiretap.spies.com//00/library/religion/fringe/ koresh.txt 
The VIBE Music Page: http://www.timeinc.com/vibelmmm/music.html 
Shopping 2000 http://www.shopping2000.com/shopping2000 
DOWVision: http://dowvision.wais.net 
The Beer Page: http://guraldi.itn.med. umich.edu: 80/Beer 
good idea if you picked out a couple of worthy brands of gut rot ahead of time. Head on over to the Beer Page for that one. 
Ack, dinner might be covered, but you still have to do that birthday shopping. Point your browser to the "Shopping 2000" Home Page and browse a little. Everyone loves music so proceed directly to the Tower Records Homepage. Stop a moment to listen to a sound clip of the gift of choice (through your earphones of course), jot down the price, and move on. While you're on the Shopping Link, do a little browsing for yourself. 
You could probably use a pair of Winter boots. Mom and Dad will spring for it eventually once you're home, so do a little pricing. What's this? Eighty dollars for REI Sorel Snowbear Boots? That's perfect...Mom and Dad will definitely go for that. 
Whoops, don't forget what you came to the lab to do in the first place: homework. If you've got a mega Theology paper to do on Cults and Christianity, point your browser to the David Koresh Page and print out the letter he sent out to the public during his standoff and the professional analysis that comes with it. With that, you'll be done with your paper in no time. Better check the latest Stock Market figures before class to­morrow so you can impress your Finance Professor. Link up to DowVision, check out the headlines of the Wall Street Journal, and get the figures of the Mutual Fund you've been tracking. Nothing but good news. If you had any real money, maybe you could invest it and make a buck or two. 
Well, it's time to get down to the nitty gritty and start typing, but the fact that you can't figure out the lyrics to the song you're listening to is really bugging you. Why couldn't Jimmy Buffet have sung just a little bit clearer in "Pencil Thin Mustache?" Ah, here we go, the Song Lyric Browser on your favorite music page, the Mammoth Music Meta List put out by VIBE maga­zine. Here it is: "Yeah, and Rama of the jungle was everyone's Bawana, but only jazz musicians were smoking..." Uh, what the heck was Jimmy thinking on that one? Oh well, you will just have to log into the Buffet newsgroup and see if any other Buffett fans know (More about that next time.) 
You may never get to that Theology paper. 
r--~~--------~~---~----------------------------------------------~----------~ 
I I I 
page 10 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, February 7, 1995 
.. •NBA 
N-ets nail victory over Detroit 
By TOM CANAVAN absence by outrebounding the shot while falling away as Associated Press Pistons 69-40 and outscoring Macon grabbed him. Morris them from the foul line 38-19. still got the ball off while falling 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. Backup center Jayson Williams down, and the shot banked in. Chris Morris sparked a deci­matched his career-high with A laughing Morris missed the sive rally by hitting a shot while 14 rebounds, and Gilliam added ensuing free throw, but the falling down, and Armon 
1-1. shot sparked a 10-4 spurt that Gilliam scored a season-high 28 Joe Dumars led Detroit with gave New Jersey an 83-76 lead points Monday night, leading 27 points, and rookie All-Star on a three-point play by Sleepy
New Jersey to a 101-97 victory Grant Hill had 23. Floyd with 8:51 left in the over Detroit. Morris, who had 19 points, game. provided the highlight of the The win was just the seventh night in the waning seconds of Detroit, which won four of its 
in 22 games for the Nets, and the third quarter with New previous five, closed to 90-85 The Obse!Ver/John Bingham they accomplished it with Jersey leading 73-72. on a 3-pointer by Dumars with Thirty-three ROTC teams competed in the Flying Irish Invitational this Derrick Coleman and Kenny Pistons guard Mark Macon 4:16 left, and whittled the lead weekend in the JACC. Anderson sidelined with in­
stole the ball and started up­to 100-97 on a 3-pointer byjuries. court. Morris knocked the ball Terry Mills with 29 seconds to New Jersey overcame their away and started to go up for a go. 
ROTC holds tourney 
Special to The Observer were undefeated Notre Dame teams; one from each service.
Defense decides game for Atlanta 
For the ninth consecutive year 
In the finalround after a close 
the Notre Dame hosted the 
battle, ND Air Force lost to 
Associated Press about defense and we really "but when we get our running Flying Irish Invitational 
Michigan Air Force by a three 
saw results." game going, the assists seem to Basketball Tournament, gath­
point margin. 
PHilADELPHIA 

Atlanta used its defense to set come naturally." ering 23 men's and 10 women's 
The semi-finalists in the

A halftime discussion about 
up several fastbreak baskets in Philadelphia coach John teams from detachments across 
women's division were
defense paid off handsomely for 
the third period. Lucas saw his team lose its the nation. 
Marquette Army, Bowling
the Atlanta Hawks on Monday 
"We got our running game eighth game in 11 outings. Notre Dame's Air Force ROTC 
Green State, Michigan Air
night. 
going and really moved the "The third quarter killed us sponsored the tourney over the 
Force, and South Dakota State
Trailing 51-44 at halftime, the 
ball," Wilkens said. "I don't and it's very frustrating. We weekend at the JACC. 
Air Force. Marquette defeated
Hawks outscored Philadelphia 
think there's any question that were lethargic all night," he Saturday was a round robin 
South Dakota State to win the
32-13 in the third quarter on 
the defense turned things said ''I'm also very concerned tournament which determined 
championship.
their way to a 107-92 victory 
around for us." about the turnovers (18). We've the semi-finalists. The cham­
The MVP's, as voted on by the

over the 76ers. Steve Smith led 
got to do something about pions were determined in sin­
tournament coaches, were Tim
the rally, scoring 15 of his 22 
Also sparking the Atlanta that." gle elimination championship 
Nelson and Tanya Eirinson.
points in the third period. 
surge was Mookie Blaylock, Craig Ehlo scored 18 points play on Sunday. 
Tim Nelson, a junior in Carroll
"That was a great second half 

who fmished with 21 points and and Andrew Lang tied his sea­The Men's division was domi­
Hall, played for Notre Dame Air 
for us," Atlanta coach Lenny 
16 assists. son high with 17 for the Hawks, nated by Notre Dame teams. 
Force, and Tanya played for
Wilkens said. 
"I haven't been getting many who converted 43 of 82 shots Three of the four semi-finalists 
Marquette.
"At halftime, we talked a lot 

assists lately," Blaylock said, (52.4 percent). 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day frbm 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES  RUN YOUR OWN BUSINESS, GAIN VALUABLE EXPERIENCE WHILE BUILDING YOUR RESUME. EARN UP TO $10,000  FOR RENT I  TICKETSI  ••••••••••••••••sLF................. "He can't catch his breath. The splinterin mirror is on the verge of  Need 4 tix (ga or stud) for ND-UK game call Lee x1216  
TREK-A-THON  (25 JOBS) HIGH DEMAND PROD­ HOMES FOR RENT  NEED BASKETBALL TIX FOR  explodin into needles of piercin  ATIN: ACTORS/ACTRESSES  
Cushing Auditorium  UCT, IRRIGATION SALES AND  NEAR CAMPUS  MARQUETIE GAME!!! CALL,  glass. Three seconds ... I brace my  Student in directing class needs  
Thurs-9/11 Fri + Sat-8/1030 pm  INSTALLATION. BE A LEADER:  232-2595  MARTY 277-2710  womb. The doll's eyelids open and  you for periodic in-class and out-of- 
VEHICLE REQUIRED CALL STU- close. People see that and scream.  class projects this semester. If you  
Thurs-Star Trek 2-Wrath of Khan  DENT SPRINKLERS AT 1-800­ 1, 2, & 3 BDRM HOMES NEAR  Marquette GAs needed  They are turnin and puttin their  have MWF from 1:15-2:05 free (and  
Fri-Star Trek 4-Voyage Home  265-7691  CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW & NEXT  Contact Bryon -1042  hands to their mouths. The captain  some additional time) and are inter- 
Sat-Star Trek 6· Undiscovered  FALL. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272­ is sayin somethin. It's drowned in  ested, call Mike at 4-3597 and  
Country  6551  5 Duquesne GA's 4 sale. x3747  the music. Suddenly everyone  leave your name and number. All  
SUMMER JOBS-COUNSELORS &  hears the clock tick-tockin in Sweet  help will be appreciated. Thanks.  
brought by SUB  STAFF BOYS SPORTS  ROOM FOR RENT. FEB.1-MAY31,  1 Kentucky stud. tix for sale  Colleen's belly. Her eyes are wide  
CAMP/MASS. TOP SALARY  1995. MATURE STUDENT. QUIET  271-1774  open, her tiny plastic fingers out­ Don't worry, I won't tell anyone  
Used Texts Cheap!! Check out  RMIBD/LAUNDRY, TRAVEL  NEIGHBORHOOD. 255-9005  stretched like our  about the sauce. We're so evil.  
Pandora's Books 233-2342  ALLOWANCE. MUST HAVE SKILL  WANTED: 6 Tickets to Tom Petty  wee Jesus."  
ND ave & Howard st 1 0-6 m-sat 9-3 sundays  IN ONE OF THE FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES: Archery, Baseball,  FOR SALE  DESPERATE!!!!! Please Call Mary Jane @ 271-0224  -Michael Collins from "The Butcher's Daughter''  PW-PW-PW-PW-PW-PW-PW  
Basketball, Drums, Football, Golf,  Reading 8 PM Sun, Feb 12  P.W. Carnation Sale  
ILOST & FOUND I  Guitar, Ice Hockey, Lacrosse, Lifeguard, Nature, Nurses,  $250 voucher for travel on America West Airlines. Being sold FOR  Kentucky tix NEEDED $$Call Brent x1761  Hesburgh Library Auditorium part of the  Buy a flower for that special some- 
Photography, Piano, Pool,  ONLY $200. Good until11/27/95.  SOPHOMORE  one  
I Lost a role of 110 film on Friday  Rocketry, Rollerblading, Ropes,  Call Mike @ 273-6077.  LITERARY  
Feb.3, 95 probably in the area  Sailing, Scuba, Secretary, Soccer,  Need 4 tix (ga or stud) for ND-UK  FESTIVAL!!!!!!!!!!!  Red-I love you  
around or inside  Tennis, Track, Video, Waterski,  Mac Computer SE30 4/80 $600 or  game call Lee x1216  ((((  Pink-You're snazzy!  
LaFortune/J.A.C.C.  Windsurfing, Weights, Wood,  best offer. Luttio 288-0097  (festival dates Feb. 11-17)  Yellow-Friendship  
call Wally at 4-3675  Yearbook. Call or write: Camp  Help! I need MU GA's.  ***************SLF******************  White-I want to gel to know you ...  
Winadu, 2255 Glades Rd., Suite  COMPUTER: Mac Classic II, excel- Call Beth x4620  Green-???  
Found: quartz women's watch with  406E. Boca Raton, FL 33431,  lent condition,  
black and gold face found between Hayes-Healey and Hurley.  (800)494-6238 Recruiter will be on campus DATE: 3/6 TIME: 10:00am­ 4mb RAM, 80mg HD, system 7. Includes Microsoft Word 5.1,  PERSONAL  LOVE IS IN THE AIR .... Come to see THE DATING  Feb. 6-Feb. 10 Lunch & Dinner atNDH & SOH  
call 4·1327 to claim  4:00pm PLACE: Dooley Room - MacBible (NRSV), ClarisWorks.  GAME!I!  
Lafortune. STOP BY-No appoint­ $1000/bo. 631-4533/evening 273­ ROSES ARE RED  sponsored by SUB, Wed, Feb 8  PW-PW-PW-PW-PW-PW-PW  
LOST -gold rectangular gold  men! needed.  6058.  VIOLETS ARE BLUE  at8:00 p.m.  
charms that says Credit Suisse.  THE OBSERVER HAS A  @ Lafortune Ballroom  
Lost early wk. of 1/30. VERY  Tonight is your last chance to buy  SPECIAL OFFER FOR YOU  Funnier than your vintage 80's  DESPERATELY NEEDED:  
Sentimental. Reward. Call Jennifer  Babysitter wanted • occasional  a SNAP-A-SCAM  Dating Game!! BE THERE!!  
4-1291.  evening or weekend times, for  in the Dining Halls. Don't let  VALENTINE'S DAY is quickly  Ride to Pittsburgh on March 3rd for  
3&1/2 and 1 year old, must have  Valentine's Day pass without  approaching and now is the time to  weekend. Please help.  
WANTED  own car and be year round resi­dent, Judith 287-0260  getting a picture of that special someone.  place a classified ad for your valen­tine. All Valentine's Day ads will  ...The Group that Dare Not Speak its name will be meeting at 7:30pm  Call Laurie at x4096 -Thank You!  
appear in a SPECIAL Valentine's  in Lafortune Thursday night. Please  help. i only have five days ... "she's  
Spring Break! Bahamas Party  SUMMER JOBS  One rdtp. ticket to Ft. Lauderdale.  classified section of The Observer  come if you are queer, happy,lov­ done some modeling"  
Cruise 6 Days $279! Includes 12  ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  Leaving 3/11 , ret. 3/18. Must sell.  on Tuesday, February 14.  ing, caring, GAY, smiling,  
Meals & 6 Free Parties! Great  PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS  $250 or best offer. Call X3704.  STRAIGHT, clam, angry, and most  
Beaches & Nightlife! A HUGE  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  You may place your classified  of all SUPPORTIVE!'..  for 25 cents you can get in my bed  
Party! Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights  NEAR LAKE PLACID  '84 RENULTE ENCORE, 69,000  Monday through Friday from Sam to  
Air & Hotel From $429! Spring  CALL 1-800-786-8373  MILES, 5-SPEED. $450.  3pm. We are located on the third  it is better to give than to get  
Break Travel1-800-678-6386  631-6521.  floor of Lafortune. Place your ad  ******Top Nate Quotes*......  
TENNIS JOBS-SUMMER BOYS  now and beat the rush!  1) Take one for the team  Do you like classical music?  
Florida's Spring Break Hotspots!  CAMP-NORTHEAST-LOOKING  OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered  2) less than 100 I hope!!  WSND-FM has radio announcer  
PANAMA CITY OCEANVIEW  FOR STAFF WITH GOOD TENNIS  at $85,900. First floor location.  ADOPTION-A LOVING CHOICE.  3) Big Chief needs help  shifts available on Saturdays and  
ROOM WITH KITCHEN $129!  BACKGROUND WHO CAN TEACH  Finished basement with fulllavato­ We're blessed with financial securi­ 4) Intensive care  Sundays. No experience  
- WALK TO BEST BARS/ Cocoa  CHILDREN TO PLAY TENNIS.  ry. Two bedrooms and two baths on  ty and a Dalmatian! Mid-Western  necessary. For more information,  
Beach (Near Disney)-27 acre  GOOD SALARY. ROOM &  ground level. Lease back to owner  couple, stay-at-home mom.  please call Frank or Susan at 631­ 
Deluxe Beachfront Resort 7 Nights  BOARD, TRAVEL ALLOWANCE.  through May, 1995. Call  Allowable expenses paid. 800-440­ JUNIORS:  7342.  
$159! Key West $2291 Daytona  CALL OR WAITE: CAMP WINADU,  (616)946-0700.  6024 Tracy & Doug  Come to Senior Bar on Thursday  
Room with Kitchen From $12911­ 2255 GLADES RD., SUITE 406E,  from 5-7PM for a class dinner  
800-678-6386  BOCA RATON, FL 33431 800-494­6238. RECRUITER WILL BE ON  WALK TO ND! 3 bdrm, 1 bath ranch. New carpet­ ··························*···········  catered by DON PABLO'S $5.00 per person.  Paul, Happy 26 months. AACCKK!!  
Spring Break/ Panama City/ 8 Days  CAMPUS 3/6-DOOLEY ROOM­ ing, paint & furnace. Family room  CASINO NIGHT IS BACK/  Love Schmoo  
Oceanview Room with a Kitchen  LAFORTUNE  plus rec room with bar. $56,000.  Friday, Feb. 10, 1995  Desperately seeking ride to Padre  
$129! Walk to best bars! Includes  OPEN SAT., 2/18 FROM 2-4 PM.  Get to know a Knott Angel!  for Spring Break. Will split gas and  Get some, get some, get some  
Free Discount Card which will save  Painters, Foremen, and Managers- Barb McHugh  This year you need  tolls in exchange. Call Bridget at  
you $100 on food/drinks! 1-800­678-6386  Call College Pro Painters at 1 (800) 346-4649.  Coldwell Banker 277-8000, 235-3240.  to get on The List.......................................  x2702.  Rob Murray ... did i ever tell you what a great vocalist you are?  

page 11

Tuesday, february 7, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL .....
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Baseball players, ow-ners, and mediator given another day to settle by President 
By RONALD BLUM parties a full opportunity for re­finish his proposal in time. job 2 1/2 years ago and left Associated Press solving this dispute. The presi­"After discussions with the players with no one to turn to dent agreed to wait until 3 o'­parties, and especially with the other than the government and 
WASHINGTON clock tomorrow for former sec­player representatives, I felt it the courts. 
President Clinton gave base­retary Usery's final report and incumbent upon me that I Players and owners broke off ball one more day to settle its recommendation.'' spend some more time talking joint talks Saturday and didn't strike after mediator W.J. Neither side knew what with them," Usery said. "Not talk Sunday, ignoring Clinton's Usery said Monday he needed Clinton would do if they re­only have I listened them out, I order that they try to resolve more time to complete his own jected the plan. listened them out very much things themselves. No talks proposal to end the 179-day today, including carrying a let­were held Monday before walkout. The president could propose ter to the president that the Usery's second trip to the White 
The president hoped the ad­special legislation to enact players had given me." House in two days. ditional time would allow play­terms of a settlement or bind­Clinton had demanded a set­ers and owners to settle things ing arbitration, but both types tlement or progress by Monday, On Jan. 26, six days after themselves, but there appeared of bills would have to be 179th day of the strike. owners adopted plans to start to be little hope. approved by the House and "They're working at least," spring training with replace­
Senate. Clinton said before meeting ment players, Clinton an­
"On this 1OOth anniversary of "Certainly from public com­Usery. "I just keep telling them nounced his Feb. 6 deadline for Babe Ruth's birth, the Babe ments by members of Congress, to play ball. a settlement with the sides still would not be enormously op­we sense that they share the billions of dollars apart. timistic for any quick settle­president's sense of frustration "It's just a few hundred folks The strike, baseball's eighth ment right now ," Labor that the strike has continued trying to figure out how to di­work stoppage since 1972, can­Secretary Robert Reich said for too long," White House vide nearly $2 billion. They celed the final 52 days and 669 after Clinton extended the spokesman Mike McCurry said. ought to be able to figure that games of the season and wiped deadline. "We detect among many mem­out," Clinton said. out the World Series for the 
Usery, a former Labor bers of Congress a desire to see Both sides thought Clinton first time since 1904. Secretary appointed to mediate baseball get back on the boards was the only one with the abil­Owners forced Vincent to re­
by Clinton last Oct. 14, said he for 1995." ity to force a quick end to the sign on Sept. 7, 1992, and be­would again try to cajole the Near the end of his news con­mess. gan formulating their plan to sides into a voluntary solution. ference, Usery dropped a hint Hours after presenting a control player salaries, which 
"I refuse to be pessimistic," that his plan might become leg­$1.61 trillion budget to averaged nearly $1.2 million Usery said, "although it is very islation. Congress, the president found last season. difficult to seem to lind a volun­himself in the middle of a dis­tary agreement between the "When you have to write a pute that has disturbed fans for Negotiations began Jan. 13, parties." recommendation that goes to half a year. 1993, but players resolutely 
Usery has led the sides the president of the United Owners also demanded salary refused to consider the cap, 
through six rounds of negotia­States and may be used other caps during negotiations in saying limits would crush free 
tions with little movement. ways, it takes a lot of time to do 1985 and 1990, but commis­agency, a right they won in 
"lie didn't want to leave any that," he said. sioners Peter Ueberroth and 1975 -a century after owners 
stone unturned," Reich said, Usery said he began his day at Fay Vincent forced them to adopted a reserve clause that 
"didn't want to really risk not 4:30 a.m., three hours after push those plans aside. bound a player to negotiate 
thinking of and not giving both going to sleep, but still couldn't The dispute cost Vincent his with only one team at a time. 
~OBSERVER 
Illini's Clark caught again by police 
Associated Press 
CHAMPAIGN, Il. 

Illinois center Shelly Clark had his third run-in with the law since October when he was arrested on traffic charges last weekend. 
Clark, 22, was charged of dri­ving with a suspended license Sunday, according to a Champaign police report. 
Police stopped his car because it had no license plates, Deputy Police Chief Jim Luecking said. Clark initially claimed to be someone else but later told police who he was, Luecking said. 
Clark posted bond and was released, he said. 
Clark also was arrested Dec. 6 on charges of driving with a suspended license, having no proof of insurance and disobey­ing a stop sign. The charges are still pending. 
And in October, Clark was ar­rested on a domestic distur­bance involving his girlfriend and her male friend. 
He was placed in an adult diversion program after a grand jury refused to indict him. 
Illinois coach Lou Henson said 
Clark would not start in 
Wednesday's home game 
against Penn State. 
is now accepting applications for the 
1995-96 General Board 
Any full-time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. Please submit a three page statement ofintent with a resume to john Lucas by Wednesday, Feb. 15 at 5 p.m. For questions about the application process or for more information about any position, call The Observer at 631-4541. 
NEWS EDITOR ADVERTISING MANAGER Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The News Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The 
Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story and series ideas and is responsible for the content of the news section each day. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR Applicants should have editorial writing and editing skills and an ability to deal with the public. The Viewpoint Editor manages a staff of copy and layout editors and columnists and decides what letters will run each day. 
SPORTS EDITOR Applicants should have sports reporting, writing and editing skills. The Sports Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and special sections, arranges travel accommodations for reporting trips and is responsible for the content of the sports section each day. 
ACCENT EDITOR Applicants should have features writing and editing experience. The Accent Editor manages editors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas, and is responsible for the content of the Accent pages each day. 
PHOTO EDITOR Applicants should have photography and developing experience. The Photo Editor manages a staff of photographers and lab technicians and must work closely with News, Sports and Accent department editors in assigning pho­tographs. 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR Any full-time undergraduate student at Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. The editor manages Saint Mary's department heads, coordinates coverage 
Advertising Manager oversees an assistant and a staff of account executives and is responsible for generating advertising revenue. 
AD DESIGN MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of QuarkXpress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager oversees a staff of designers, works closely with advertising and marketing departments and is responsible for the design and layout of advertisements. 
PRODUCTION MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience, knowledge of QuarkXpress and design, layout and newspaper production experience. The Production Manager oversees a staff of night production designers and works closely with department staff on layout and design. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge of computer networking. The Systems Manager maintains and updates the Macintosh network and printers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system. 
OBSERVER MARKETING DIRECTOR Director will be responsible for generating new ideas and campaigns for advertis­ers. The marketing director will oversee one assistant and will work closely with Ad Design manager and account executives. Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and strong self-motivation. 
CONTROLLER Applicant must be a junior accounting major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. 
I 
i 
with Notre Dame staff, generates story ideas on the Saint Mary's campus and The Controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operating budget and is responsible for the Observer office at Saint Mary's. taxes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and order transaction duties. 
page 12 Tuesday, February 7, 1995
The Observer • SPORTS 


..... ­
Strawberry suspended, released from Giants 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Darryl Strawberry was sus­pended from baseball today for violating his aftercare program and immediately released by the San Francisco Giants. 
"It was made very clear to Darryl upon his signing last June that any violation of this nature would automatically ter­minate his contract with the team," Giants general manager Bob Quinn said in statement today. 
Strawberry, also facing fed­eral tax-evasion charges, was suspended for 60 days by major league baseball. The outfielder and his agent Eric Goldschmidt were not immediately available for comment. 

Quinn said the Giants told Strawberry that "since receiv­ing the test results," he no longer is with the team. He did not, however, indicate when Strawberry was last tested. 
"We told Darryl that, although he will no longer be a Giant, we will continue to make available to him our after-car and coun­seling problems," Quinn said. 
Eugene Orza, general counsel for the Players' Association, said the union wouldn't make any decisions until after meet­ing with Strawberry and the doctors from both sides. 
"After that, we'll decide what happens next," Orza said in Washington at the baseball la­bor talks. 
Although this is the first time Strawberry has been suspended by major-league baseball, he has a long record of problems. Last season, he avoided suspen­sion by entering a rehab pro­gram after he told the Los Angeles Dodgers he had a sub­stance abuse problem. The admission came after he failed to show up for the team's final spring training game, April 3, at Anaheim, Calif. 
Strawbwerry was released by the Dodgers after undergoing treatment, and later signed with the Giants. He signed for the major-league minimum, and would have played this sea­son for the Giants under terms of the final year of a five-year contract he signed with the Dodgers in 1991. 
"We are deeply saddened by today's news," Quinn said. 
• COI.lEGE BASKETBALL 

Connecticut crunches Pitt 
By CHRISTINE HANLEY 
Associated Press 
STORRS, Conn. 
Ray Allen scored 24 points and No. 3 Connecticut re­mained unbeaten in the Big East with a 90-61 victory over Pittsburgh on Monday night. 
Allen scored seven points in a 14-0 run early in the second half that gave the Huskies (18­1, 11-0) a 62-37 lead and they went on to extend their own record with their 16th con­
• 
CROSS-COUNTRY SKI RENTALS-Rentals are avail­able to students, faculty. and staff. Rent skis, boots, and poles. No reservations neces~'"' sary. Check out 4:30-5:30 on Thursday and Friday and 
11:00 
AM-2:00 PM on Saturday. Check in 4:30-5:30 on Friday and Sunday and 

11:00 
AM-2:00 PM on Saturday. For rates and more info call the Golf Shop at l­6425 or RecSports at 1-6100. 


in L~~or~un:e BENGAL BOUTS .. T~aining PM. Any occurs daily at 4:00 PM at the at 4-1560. 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND PANAMA CITY BEACH DAYTONA BEACH 
I fj 4'1t,tJ iiI 
STEAMBOAT VAIL/BEAVER CREEK 
• PER PERSON DEPENDING ON DESTINAn()lj I BREAK DATES /LENGTH Of STAY. 
f~$00~SIINCII-·S·E: 
TOLL fl!IES INJtli!W.TION & I¥Stiil!v•TIONS 


secutive Big East regular-sea­son win. 
Allen, the conference's lead­ing scorer, also continued to be impressive from long range, going 6-for-9 from 3-point range. That made him 18-for­27 from beyond the arc over the last three games. 
Donny Marshall and Brian Fair each had 15 points for Connecticut, which extended its home winning streak to 27 games, while Doron Sheffer added 13. 
JACC, Anyone int~.rested should please coP:tact Jeff Goddard at 287-8041.• · 
ND RUGBY CLUB ;.: Spring practi~.~ •-•·····. continues _ on 
Jaime Peterson, who scored Pittsburgh's only two field goals in the first 12 minutes of the second half, finished with 16 points. Jason Maile had all but two of his 16 points in the first half for the Panthers (5-15, 1­
11). 
The Huskies, who had strug­gled against Pittsburgh's 1-3-1 zone the last time the teams met -falling behind by as many 25 points in that game ­had no trouble handling the same defense this time. 
CUMBING WALL SCJJEDl,JLE ·7.The·climbing wall is now open for use;n The hours will be Sundays 2:00-5:00 and Tuesdays and Thursdays from 7:00-10:00. The climbing wall 
Wednesday, February 8th at <Cis located in the Rockne 9;30. If you have any ques-··Memorial and anyone inter­tions call Brendan at 2 34-ested in using it must attend 8276 or Mike at 4-2289. an orientation session. For 
f :more info call RecSports at t-BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL·· Anyone· interested in being a 1995 Bookstore co~Illl),issioner A! SPORTS TALK~ This Sunday can pick up an application in ~t 7:30 pm on WVFI 640 AM: the Stuqen,t Government offic¢ ltisp Men·snasketball co~cap­"Over the past nine months, we have come to know Darryl not only as a baseball player but as a warm and caring person. 

"However, quite obviously, there are many problems in his life. While he's overcome some of these hurdles, unfortunately he still has more to conquer." 
Strawberry's substance abuse problems first became known in 1990, when he agreed to enter Smithers Clinic in New York for alcohol rehabilitation. That came on Feb. 2, just a week after he was arrested during an argument with his wife. 
Strawberry, one of the stars of the New York Mets' team that won the 1986 World Series, missed most of the 1992 and 1993 seasons with a chronic back problem. 
The day after he failed to show up for the final 1994 ex­hibition game, against the California Angels, Strawberry announced he had a substance abuse problem. The Dodgers placed him on the disabled list. 
On April 8, 1994, Strawberry entered the Betty Ford Clinic in Rancho Mirage, Calif., for treat­ment of the problem. 
Strawberry finished his 28­day stay at Betty Ford on May 
6. Three weeks later, the Dodgers released him. The Giants signed him as a free agent on June 19. 
Strawberry pleaded innocent Dec. 18, in U.S. District Court in White Plains, N.Y., to tax eva­sion charges. Goldschmidt, also pleaded innocent to felony tax evasion, which carries a maxi­mum penalty of five years in prison and a $250,000 fine. 
The 32-year-old Strawberry is accused of evading $146,000 in income tax by allegedly not re­porting more than $500,000 in cash payments from autograph shows and personal appear­ances . 
An indictment charges Strawberry and Goldschmidt concealed existence of a bank account from accountants so a susbstantial proportion of their income from card shows would not appear on their 1989 and 1990 tax returns. 


1995 French Film Festival 
Applications are now being accepted for 
at 

Alu111nli Senlior Club 
for the 1995-96 academic school year. 
~1 ~£r You may pick up applications at the 
~'0 .u. W.t{ '(/;. 

~CLUI\JOffice ofStudent Activities, 315 LaFortune. ~J\ilO Deadline March 1st 1995 

------~ 

Tuesday, February 7, 1995 The Observer· SPORTS page 13 
•NBA

•NHL ­
Hull scoring big for Blues 
By R.B. FALLSTROM up for a run at the franchise's A.~sociatcd Press first Stanley Cup. The team has seven players and a coach with ST. LOUIS 20 Cup rings among them. Last 
The goals are coming in season, the Blues had no rings.bunches again for Brett Hull. Looking around in the St. Louis The latest addition was free­Blues' locker room, he says it's agent right wing Glenn 
easy to see why. Anderson on Saturday.
"Everybody keeps talking "I don't even care how old or about the changed Brett Hull," how many cups he's won, he's said Hull, who's tied for the a great player," Hull said. 
NHL lead with nine goals in "When he comes here, you will 
eight games. "When you've got see that without a doubt he'll these new players around you be the most talented guy out and a new coach and a new 
there." style, everybody looks like they're playing better." Anderson has been on six 
Stanley Cup winners. Sometime Under new GM-coach Mike 
Hulllinemate Esa Tikkanen has Keenan, the Blues are gearing been on five. There's also Greg 



~~­
''J·.·>;. 
'.• -·· ,..., 
~~ 
TilE 110RRIS INN 
OF NOTRE D4ME 
NOIRE DAME. INDIANA 46556 

"Be A Sweetheart" 
Valentine's Day 
DinnerSpecialsfor two 
Tuesday, Feb. 14 

Dinner from 5:30p.m.-8:30p.m. 
Enjoy adining experience in the tme spirit of Notre Dame 
For n·srrvations rail 
631-2020 




Gilbert (3), Guy Carbonneau (2), AI Macinnis (1), Doug Lidster (1), Donald Dufresne (1) and Keenan (1). 
Still, it all revolves around Hull. 
"There must be eight or nine different players," said Stars coach Bob Gainey, whose team swept the Blues in the first round of the playoffs last sea­son. "But I think their key play­ers are still here." 
In his seventh season with the Blues, Hull is enjoying a resur­gence. He got the tying and go­ahead goals while recording his 22nd career hat trick in Saturday's 7-4 victory over Dallas. He also got the game­winner in the Blues' previous game, an overtime victory at Winnipeg. 
Hull scored 86 goals in 1990­91, but tailed off-for him­to 54 and 57 the last two sea­sons while in mourning for traded center and best friend Adam Oates. At this rate, Hull could end up around 50 again despite the NHL's 48-game strike-delayed season. 
"I don't look at fast starts or slow starts, I just go out and play," Hull said. "The team's going good, that's the most im­portant thing." 
Heading into Tuesday's game against Los Angeles, the Blues were 6-2 and in a three-way tie for first place in the Central Division. It's one of the fastest starts in franchise history and a refreshing change for Hull, whose teams have never made it past the second round of the playoffs. 
t 
The FACULTY Series 

TIMELY TOPICS 
An opportunity to enter into conversation with colleagues on current ethical and religious issues. 
"BUSINESS ETHICS IN PRACTICE" A Competitive Advantage in the 1990's 
. ' 

A conversation with Georges Enderle and Patrick E. Murphy 
O'Neil Chair of Intemationnl Professor of Marketing Business EUJ.i.cs 
Tuesday, February 7 4:30p.m. at 220 Hayes-Healy 

Faculty, Professional Staff & Graduate Students Welcome 
Sponsored by: The Department The Center for of Theology Social Concerns 

--Light Refreshments will follow -­
The Office of Campus Ministry 
I
-
Kareem, Miller to go into Hall of Fame 
By TRUDY TYNAN 
Associated Press 
SPRINGFIELD, Mass. 
Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, the NBA's all-time leading scorer who played on nine champi­onship teams in college and in the pros, was voted into the Basketball Hall of Fame today along with six others. 
Also voted into the Hall were women's Olympic and college stars Cheryl Miller and Anne Donovan, former Soviet coach Aleksandr Gomelsky, former NBA official Earl Strom, for­ward Vern Mikkelsen and coach John Kundla. 
Mikkelsen was one of the NBA's first power forwards, while Kundla coached Mikkelsen and also led the Minneapolis Lakers to six pro championships in the 1940s and '50s. 
''I'm just happy things worked out," Abdul-Jabbar said today from an Atlanta hotel after being informed he had been elected to the Hall. "It hasn't sunk in yet. 
"It is, of course, an honor for Kareem to be inducted into the Hall of Fame," said Hall of Farner Jerry West, an executive vice president with the Los Angeles Lakers. "It's also an honor for the Hall to have Kareem as a member. He is without a doubt the most con­summate professional I've ever seen and, if not the greatest player of all time, certainly one of two of three greatest." 
"Six world championship rings. Six MVP awards. I can't think of anyone, who could be more deserving," Lakers owner Jery Buss said. 
There were also 19 All-Star appearances for the NBA's all­time leader in scoring with 44,149 points. He also holds records for games played 

(1, 797) and blocked shots (3,189). 
From the time Abdul-Jabbar, then known as Lew Alcindor, stepped onto the Power Memorial High School court in New York City in 1961, through his three NCAA championships at UCLA and 20 years in the NBA with Milwaukee and Los Angeles, he dominated the game as few men have. 
His high school teams lost six games. His college teams were defeated twice. Yet he was ridiculed because of his height. 
"He was subjected to things that, had it been me, I would have really flared up," former UCLA coach John Wooden said. "But he didn't." 
And in the tall young man's "intelligence, unselfishness and amazing self-control," Wooden said he found some lessons. 
"I learned more from Lewis, as I called him then, than from any other one player I ever had," Wooden said. "I am not talking about basketball now, but about man's inhumanity to man." 
Wooden, who guided UCLA to 10 NCAA titles, called Abdui­Jabbar "the most valuable player the college game has ever had. On or off the court." 
Donovan, a 6-foot-8 center, led Old Dominion to the AIAW national championship in 1980 and helped boost the U.S. women's Olympic team to gold medals in 1984 and 1988. She is now an assistant coach at Old Dominion. 
Miller, also a member of the '84 Olympic team, led Southern Cal to two NCAA champi­onships in '83 and '84 and ranks second only to Hall of Farner Carol Blazejowski in scoring. She is now the coach at Southern Cal. Her brother, Reggie, is an All-Star guard for the Indiana Pacers. 


'Jhi,nk, Summer 
consic£er spencii,nq eiqht weeM of you.r su.mmer wor~if1.9 wid a cii.saciva.ntageci popu£a.ti..on 
sponsored &y Notre Dame A.Cu.mni, Ctu.&s across the country 
-a wonderfuL Cearni,nq experience 
-$1500.00 SociaL Concerns SchoCarshi.p 
-3 TheoC.Ogy credits 
.9lpp{ication aeaa{ine: !february 8 1r. 
i.nfonnati,on availa&Ce at the Center for SocLaC. Concerns 
Questions: sea IJOUf J{a(L 1tep or Sue Cunni.nqfuun <>t ti•& CSC 


page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, February 7, 1995 
•NBA 

... 
Suns suffer key loss, Mavericks find gem in CBA 

Check out ND's top recruiting class 

New Spring Merchandise Jus/Arrived. Friday, February 10/7:00 p.m./ Joyce ACC 

Manning out for season 
By MEL REISNER 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX 
Danny Manning tore a knee ligament during practice Monday and the Phoenix Suns star will miss the rest of the season. 
Manning fell during the morn­ing workout and had to be car­ried from the court. Team doc­tor Richard Emerson said the 6-foot-1 0 forward tore the anterior cruciate ligament of his left knee. 
He is to undergo surgery at an unspecified date. Such an in­jury can sideline a player for a year. 
"It certainly gives us a big hole to fill." said coach Paul Westphal, whose team has been hit by injuries. "You really can't replace a guy like that, but we'll do the best we can." 
Manning's rookie season with the Los Angeles Clippers was cut short at 26 games when he injured the anterior cruciate ligament of his right knee on Jan. 4, 1989. 
Manning had played in all 46 games this season, his first with the Suns after leaving the Atlanta Hawks. A former No. 1 draft pick (1988) and two-time All-Star, Manning passed up his chance to command an es­timated $5 million per year as a free agent and signed a one­year contract with the Suns for 
Love Bites 

i oin us for a romantic evening with some of 
our favorite "love stories." Free popcorn, 

oda and Valentine•s Day cookies will be pro· 
ided. All of this brought to you by the Office 
I Student Activites. 

$1 million during the offseason. 
He started 19 games this sea­son, including two at center and the last four in a row, av­eraging 23 points and 8.8 re­bounds in those contests. Earlier, Westphal liked Manning coming off the bench. 
His shooting improved throughout the season, markedly in the last 16 games, when he hit 57 percent of his shots. For the season, Manning ranked 10th in the NBA at 55 percent. 
Westphal said he hadn't de­cided on an alternate lineup. Danny Schayes, Charles Barkley, Dan Majerle and Elliot Perry started the last two games with Manning, but Wayman Tisdale was in the post the first two. 
Tisdale separated rib carti­lage Wednesday night against the Los Angeles Lakers and has missed the last two. To com­pound the Suns' problems, he aggravated the injury again early Tuesday when he sneezed while at his wife's bedside as she gave birth Monday to their fourth child. 
"(Trainer) Joe Proski said that's the worst thing you can do is sneeze," said Tisdale, who will be out at least through the All-Star break. 
A.C. Green, one potential re­placement for Manning, said he was ready if Westphal decides to increase his playing time. 


8:00 When a Man loves a Woman 

10:00 Jagged Edge 
12:00 Four Weddings and a Funeral 
2:00 Fatal Attraction 
By DENNE H. FREEMAN 
Associated Press 
DALLAS 

George McCloud is back from professional basketball's bush leagues for one more shot at the big time. 
The former first-round pick of the Indiana Pacers played four years in the NBA without dis­tinction before heading for Europe to play for Scavolin Pesaro. 
The desperate Dallas Mavericks found him recently with the Rapid City Thrillers of the CBA. 
"He has played great for us, but l keep wondering if he is real," said Dallas coach Dick Motta. "(Assistant coach) Brad Davis tells me he is for real. So far, so good." 
McCloud, the seventh player taken in the 1989 draft, was acquired on Jan. 30 by the Mavs, who needed bench help because Roy Tarpley has been on the injury list. 
So far the 6-foot-8 forward has shot 72 percent from the 
~ f)}~UJJ~M lis Crjfk{j1fru!tiow 
oftlie 

rrwentietfi !Jlnniversary 
of tlie 

f£piscopa{ Ordination 
of 

BISHOP JOHN M. D'ARCY 
AND 

TEN YEARS OF SERVICE AS BISHOP OF FORT WAYNE­SOUTH BEND 
inc[udes 

.9L Ce{ebration of ;; tlie Mass 
rruesday, j'ebruary 7, 5:15pm 
BASILICA OF THE SACRED HEART 
YL{{ We{come! 
field. On Saturday night, in a 119-98 victory over Utah, McCloud hit nine of 11 shots, including three 3-pointers, for 22 points. 
"He's been shooting the eyes out of it," Motta said. "It really helps our offense when we have somebody who can shoot like that. 
"Teams have been doubling down on Jim Jackson and Jamal Mashburn. They can't do that if we can dish the ball out to big George." 
McCloud is on a 10-day con­tract, which is likely to be re­newed for another 10-day con­tract. 
Then Dallas has to make a decision whether to keep him. 
"l think I can play in the NBA," McCloud said. "That wasn't a question my first four years in the league. I was hurt a lot and I had a lot of personal problems. 
"I lost my mother and my father. I kind of lost my desire to play." 
McCloud has the desire now. He was hustling downcourt on defense against the Jazz and had two steals and a blocked shot. He also collected four re­bounds in his 21 minutes on the floor. 
"I think George is really going to help us," Jackson said. "He's a great shooter. He makes other teams play us more hon­est than they have been. If they double us, George can burn them." 
McCloud attended his third practice on Monday, and still doesn't have all the plays down. He's watched a lot of videotape. 
"I've just about learned them all," McCloud said. "I'm a quick study." 
Keith Grant, Mavericks direc­tor of player personnel, said the team took a chance because "our scouts said he was playing well. So far he has been a good fit with the team." 
McCloud said he may have found the perfect team to play for. 
"Teams double Jim and Jamal a lot, and that leaves me wide open for my strength, the jump shot," McCloud said. 



'Iuesday, February 7, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM MIKE PETERS CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 


CALVIN AND HOBBES 
MOl-A Sf>.'{'S 111£. T00\1-\ ~~IR'f ~\GI-\T G\~E. ME 5::> CE~T'S ......_____ FoR 1111':> TOOT\-\. 
DAY TWO OF TELECOMMUTING ~ T'\Y CO-WORKEI\.5 ARE A 
IS GOING ~OOTI-ILY I 1-\1\\/E. ~ 
FADING 1"\Ef'I\OF\Y. I AI'\
0 

ELII"\INATED ALL OPTIONAL ; 
LOSING LANGUAGE SKILLS. 

t-\Al3ITS OF HYGIENE.. 1------,,--------1 

t \lUST wo~ 1l\e 
IRISH Sn'rfR,
SW5WSTAKES. 
SO I GoT 1\t-{ 10\::t>.. I ?o\JR't.D Plr>.'51ER OllER \\-IE TOO\\-\ 'TO Mf\I<.E. f>.. MOLO, 
~NO \'\oW l't<\ O.'SI\\'15 
D\JPL\CME TE.E\1\. 

BILL WATTERSON 
DO '\0\J T\-\\1'\K 111E TOOT\-\ FMR'\ WILL Bt.LIE'IE. '(O\JR MO\J\\1 \-\~\) 300 TEEn-\ I~ IT~ 
IF 51-\t:D RA\\1ER 1-lt>NE 1\N OLO TOOT\1 T\-\f>.t'{ 50 CEI'~T'S, \-\OW 'ORIG\\1 C~l'\ 
SI-\E gt,;> 
SCOTT ADAMS 
o FOR REASONS TI-IAT ARE­~ UNCLEAR, 1"\Y DOG WEAR:, ~ A GAS t'\A.SK AND 5f\OUTS 

LNOIX CHAMPIONS 
55 Remedial workshop 
57 Inventor's cry 58 Visit the pound? &1 Dickens pen 
name &2 "Oklahoma!" 
aunt &3 Relaxing bath 64 Afore &5 Plowman && 180° from NNW 
DOWN 
1 Teen love 2 Jitterbug 3 Prima ballerina 4 Acad. or univ. 5"-youfor 
real?" &Doc 7 Moral fable: Var. a Sliding-door 
grooves 9 Of great size 10 Mustachioed artist 11 "-may look 31 Skunk's on a king" defense 12 F.D.R. program 
35 Stage mutter 13 Group of nine 
37 Will----wisp
17 Proffer 38 Soldier's line of 21 Ali's faith defense23 Benefit 42 Discombobu­26 Station lates27 Native 45 Imparted a28 Eschew food slight taste to 
29 Hot times in Saint-Tropez 
4& Baltimore bird 30 Fender bender 47 Get cozy 

48 "A Dog of 53 Air Force Flanders" missile author et al. 54 Flabbergast 5& I nits. for 
51 Actress-­
R. E. Lee
Hasso 
59"-the 52Kemo-­ramparts .. " (trusty scout) 60 Uno+ due 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

631-6100 


LACROSSE 
& 

SOCCER 
OFFICIALS 
The personnel department at Carner Industries was known for its impersonal interviewing process . 
1'-""~·~·4.
• ... _. '"'J~ 

Prospects for U.S.~Africa Relations in Light of the New Republican Majority will be the subject of a lecture by Deborah Green to be held at 7 p.m. at the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
:1;1\e Humor Artists will be performing sketches and songs on Friday, Feb. 10 at 8 p.JII. in the Hesburgh Li­brary Auditorium. 
South Roast Turkey Breast Irish Fried Sole Rotini w/ Vegetables 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join the Observer staff. 1-5323 
lntraurural Deadlines 
February 23 IHLACROSSE 

March2 IH WOMEN'S SOCCER IH 12" SOFTBALL -MEN IH 12" SOFTBALL -WOMEN GRAD-FAC-STAFF SOFTBALL CAMPUS SOCCER CO-REC INDOOR SOCCER 
Contact the RecSports Office for details. 
-
.. 
... 
... 
... 
_ 

ACROSS 
1 B followers 4 Philippine island 
9 Writer LeShan 12 Penned 14 Thin pancake 15 Campaign 
donor, for short 1& Have airs, like 
Rover? 18 Dockers' org. t9Gieaming 2oShady 22 .Washington's 
MountSt.­24 Director Fred eta!. 25 Have it rough, likeAsta? 
30"--make myself clear?" 32 Hockey feint 33 Art school subj. 34 Author Ferber 
3& Transplant 39 Goods: Abbr. 40 Sleeps in a 
sitting position 41 Spanish other 43 Tom Jones's 
"--Not Unusual" 
«Get Marmaduke's reaction? 
49Rock's­
Straits 50 Clothes 52 Patron of 
France 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

--~----­

-SPORTS 
Tuesday, February 7, 1995 


• TRACK 
Records fall at Meyo Invitational; Irish runner qualifies for NCAA's 
event. This time stands second on
Husted and The new and fresh face of the all-time collegiate mile list freshman Allan Rossum showed behind North Carolina's Tony some spark in the 55 meters Waldrop time of 3:55.0 set in
Rossum set 
race. 1974. 
Rossum provisionally qualified It also was the 29th fastestrecords for the NCA{\ Indoor all-time indoor mile and the Championships with a time of fastest indoor mile run in the
By LARRY VOIGT 
6.24. It is the second week in a state of Indiana. 
Sporrs Writer 
row that he has won a 55-Eastern Michigan's Paul meter competition as well as McMullen finished second inThe Irish track team success­provisionally qualifying for the the event with a time of
fully competed in the Meyo 
championships. 3:57.34. McMullen's timeInvitational held at the Loftus Noteworthy feats were ac­ranks as the eighth fastest col­Sports Center on Saturday af­complished and records were legiate mile in history and theternoon with a mix of the old shattered on Saturday as other 48th fastest indoor mile of all­and the new. 
athletes competed against the time.
A crowd of nearly 1,000 fans 
Irish. Both McMullen and Sullivanattended the event. 
One such highlight was turned automatically qualified for theSenior Emily Husted provided in by Kevin Sullivan from NCAA Indoor Championships. 
leadership and experience as Michigan who not only won the A Meyo meet and track record she won her heat in the wom­
mile with a 3:55.90 time, but was also set by Michigan's Johnen's mile in a time of 5:00.47. 
also set a Meyo Invitational and Royce with a leap of 7-4 1/2 in
With this time, Husted set a Meyo track record. the high jump. 
Notre Dame record in the 
Irish Fencing teams visit MIT for tournament 
By JOE VILLINSKI beaten streak alive. Sporrs Writer "The epee team was down 9-2 and we knew we would have to For the Notre Dame fencing pick up the slack," Caruso team, last weekend provided 
added. both good news and bad. "What a performance," mar­Let's start with the good. veled Auriol. "This tells me a The women's team set a new 
lot about our team. all of it all-time winning streak as they good." went 5-0 on Saturday, running Led by 4-0 records from their consecutive win mark to Panyi, Kalogera, Hoos, and 46 matches. breaking the old freshman Elizabeth Nieboer, record of 42 that was set from the Irish started the day by1986-1988. Their record now cruising past MIT 29-3. The stands at 17-0. 
women also downed NYU and "We're really excited," senior Brown by identical 26-6 scores foilist Liz Caruso said. "It's like 
and finished off Brandeis 24-8 making a thumbprint on the behind Claudette de Bruin's sidewalk when the cement is 
four wins. wet." 
"The women as a whole are "I am very happy for this 
fencing like the men and team," women's head coach women were last year," men's Yves Auriol said. "They had head coach Mike DeCicco said. 
great spirit and teamwork and Now for the bad. 
came up with big performances The men lost for the second 
.. when we needed them. They week in a row as NYU defeated really earned this." them, this time 16-11, dropping 
One of the biggest perfor­the Irish to 12-2. 
mances came against Princeton This marks the first time since as the Tigers roared to leads of 1983 that the men's team has 4-0 and 9-5 before the Irish ral­
lost more than one match in a lied for a 17-15 win. Once 
season. 

again the women's teamwork "It seems like they are lacking secured the victory as the epee confidence," assistant coach Ed team lost 11-5 leaving it up to Baguer said. "If there's a team 
the foil team. that's pumped to fence them, "I told the girls you have to they have trouble with that 
the loss to go 3-1 at MIT. The "However, they have got to Jeremy Siek finished off the win as much as possible be­
team." men started the day by coming learn to get mad earlier." tigers. Freshman epeeist Carl 
cause we need every touch we 
In the NYU match, the foil and from behind to down Princeton In the Princeton match. the Jackson also provided a bright can get," foil captain Maria epee teams lost by identical 5-4 15-12, and then handled Brown Irish were down 12-10, but ral­spot as he went 8-2 on the Panyi said. 
scores, while the sabre team easily, 24-3. After the loss to lied for five wins in a row to de­weekend. 
The foilists were prepared as was defeated 6-3. 
NYU, the Irish polished off a feat the 4th place finisher at "If Notre Dame is to have a 
juniors Panyi and Mindi 
"It was like last week all over tough Brandeis team 19-8. last year's NCAA champi­respectable season, the cap­
Kalogera and freshman Anne again," DeCicco said. 
"Brandeis has got some good onships. tains must provide leadershipHoos added critical wins to pre­However, the Irish managed fencers, but after losing to NYU Senior Conor Power won the both on and off the strip,"vail 12-4 and keep the un­to sandwich three wins around they got mad," DeCicco added. deciding bout, while sophomore DeCicco added. 

of note...

BASKETBALL HALL OF FAME 
Darryl Strawberry was released
Kareem Abdul-Jab bar and Cheryl Miller lead 
from the San Francisco Giants and
the list ofsix inductees. 

is facing drug charges. 
SEE PAGE 13 
! 
l~-~~­





