

Tuesday, October 31, 1995• Vol. XXVII No. 46 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
O'Hara to bring Native American concerns to officers 
McAdams receives 1995 Sheehy teaching award 
By SAMANTHA SNYDER 
N~ws Wrir~r 
Professor James McAdams of the government dnpartment has benn announced as this year's recipient of the Sheedy Award for teaching.
Tlw award. ,------=:----, which has bem1 in exis­tence for over 
twtmty years, is presented annually by the College of Arts and l.ellnrs to a tllaeher who has demonstrated excellence in t11aching within the college. The selection committee for the award is comprised of former winrwrs as well as students from the Arts and Letters Student Advisory Council. 
College of Arts and Letters lhmn !larry Attridge says that dndication to the teaching pro­fession and a reputation as a stimulating lecturer were two of the qualities which influ­enend thn committee's decision to dnsignate McAdams this 
McAdams 
year's Sheedy Award winner. According to Attridge, McAdams is "someone who clearly puts himself out for the students." 
Though McAdams has only been teaching in the govern­ment department at Notre Dame for four years, Attridge insists that McAdams has al­ready gained a distinguished reputation among fellow col­leagues and students in his as­sociation with the Kellogg and Krock Institutes as well as his work as a mentor for Notre Dame Fullbright Scholars. 
"He's proved himself in a very short time to be a leading collegiate citizen, both as a professor and a mentor to stu­dents," Attridge said. 
McAdams said that he was "delighted and flattered" to receive the award. "Certainly there are a lot of very deserv­ing people in the college," McAdams said. "Therefore, I was absolutoly thrilled to get it." 
McAdams employs what he calls the "Sheryl Crow ap­
see McADAMS I page 4 



Amendment curbs loan cuts 
By KRISTI KOLSKI Assisrant News Editor 

Last Friday, a major victory was won for stu­dents of higher education with the passage of an amendment which significantly curbed pro­posed student loan cuts. 
The Senate voted to strike three provisions from The Labor and Human Resources Reconciliation Bill, which originally called for $10.8 billion in cuts, $7.6 billion which would have come from students. 
The new amendment, named after the spon­sors Jeffords-Kassebaum-Snowe, reduces the overall cut by $5.8 billion. 
"This is a major victory for Notre Dame stu­dents," said Tom Matzzie, Student Government Chief Counsel. "Most of the aspects that would hurt our students were removed." 
The Senate's passage of the amendment, by a vote of 99-0, eliminates the original 0.85 per­cent tax on student loan volume. restores the six month grace period on loan interest and removes the increase in PLUS loans. 
Although these revisions will lessen the dam­age of student loan cuts, the 20 percent cap of the Direct Lending program. which passed, remains detrimental. 
Direct Lending is a program under which dollars are loaned out directly to students from the Department of Education. 
According to Matzzie, the method is cheaper because the middlemen are eliminated, there is less paperwork, more repayment options, less federal subsides to banks, and money usually 
Student Loan Amendments 

Elimination of the original .85°/o tax on student loan volume 

Restoration of the 
six month grace 
period on loan 


interest 

Removal of any increase in PLUS loans 
gets to students faster. 
Notre Dame is not involved in the Direct Lending program but students could still suffer the effects of a 20 percent cap. 
"Indirectly this cap is very relevant," said Matzzie. "Direct Lending increases competition 
see LOANS/ page 4 


The Observer/David Murphy 

Carving up some Halloween fun 
Alumni Freshman Joe Gallagher carves his pumpkin in the spirit of Halloween. Gallagher, along with many other students, took part in the pumpkin carving contest held last night in the Oak Room. 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST Assocl.llr News Ediror 
Members of the Native American Student Association at Notre Dame, offended by what tlwy say is the exploita­tion of Nativn Americans de­pietnd in the murals of Christopher Columbus located in tlw Main Building, will have their concerns brought beforo tlw ollienrs of thll University at the IHlXl oflicers' lllllllling, to be held November 2S. 
Af'ttlr calling the murals "a disgracn" during a protest out­side the Main Building on October 9, NASA-ND students askml to prtlsent their position in pnrson to Univnrsity admin­istrators. Later that day, Patricia O'llura, vice-president of student affairs, sent a memo to the students, offering to meet with them at a later date. 
At the meeting, held last Friday, NASA-ND spoke with O'Hara, who said she would pass the students' concerns along to the University's offi­cers when she meets with them at the November 2S meeting. 
"The students presented strong feelings, with sincerity, on the issue," O'Hara said. 
NASA-ND is calling for three proposals to be enacted, ac­cording to Candice Pascua, president of the organization. 
•First, the murals of Columbus should be removed because they show Native Americans as mem­bers of a culture inferior to that of Western Europeans, accord­ing to Pascua. Giving credit to Columbus for discovering a cul­ture that was established long before he arrived is demeaning to Native Americans, she added. 
A pamphlet distributed dur­ing the October 9 demonstra­tion outlined NASA-NO's posi­tion: "We strongly disagree with the murals ... because they show only the European point of view. Native Americans inhabited this land long before the arrival of Columbus." 
Pascua and other members of NASA-NO would like to see the murals moved to the Snite Museum of Art, where they could be considered as works of art and not as the University's official opinion on Native 




Students still waiting for new ABC affiliate 
By HEATHER COCKS News Writer 
Notre Dame students are rapidly discovering that the drama of "NYPD Blue" or "General Hospital" just isn't as enthralling when partially obscured by static and snow. 
Since October 16, Notre Dame students have patiently waited to receive a consistently clear picture on Channel 58 from the comfort of their dorm. 
The wait is far from over. 
The ABC Network was denied access to a major South Bend television station following the conversion of their former affil­iate, Channel 28, to FOX. In or­der to continue broadcasting to the area. the network was forced to rely on two smaller local stations, Channels 58 and 69. 
According to an official at Channel 58, the station must 
American heritage. 
"The administration building is not the place for the murals, considering how many people walk through the building every day," Pascua said. 
"The building represents Notre Dame. When visitors see the murals, they think that is the University's view and opin­ion." 
• 
Second, guides giving tours of the Main Building should stress during their pre­sentations that the murals do not represent the University's stance, Pascua said. 

•Third, 
the murals of Columbus should be balanced by art pieces that focus on other ethnicities, according to Pascua. 


"There should be other forms of artwork on campus that rep­resent the diversity of other cultures." she said. 
NASA-ND also plans to meet with Dean Porter, director of the Snittl Museum, this Friday. Porter, a member of the Notre Dame art community for nearly 30 years, has dealt in the past with a number of questions concerning sculptures, murals and other artwork on campus. 
If the University agrees to take down the murals, they would likely be removed during the interior renovation of the building. The interior ren­ovation is slated to begin in the summer of 1997 and is expect­ed to last until the summer of 1999. 
switch to new, stronger anten­nas to provide quality recep­tion; unfortunately, they are not available for use until the first or second week in December. at the earliest. 
A station employee said. "We had a choice -either interrupt service to the area, or try to use temporary antennas to give the best picture possible at the moment. Neither is a wonder­ful option for viewers." 
The more advanced aerials, once installed, are expected to improve the signal transmis­sion by a factor of approxi­mately 20. 
The oflicial still was reluctant to promisn a perfoct picturo to students using televisions with indoor antennas, stating, "In that situation, you can rarely expect a great picture every time; however, things should definitely improve. We're very optimistic." 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, October 31, 1995 
I 
I 
I 
• INS!OE COLUMN 


Costumes for the penniless 
So it's Halloween. And you just found out that all of your friends are going out tonight. Good. But they're actu­ally dressing up, like in a costume. But you don't have a costume. Now don't feel bad, it's 


easy to forget in the Patti Carson 
hustle and bustle of the Sainr Mary's Editor 
Halloween shopping 
season. So you don't 

have a lot of money to spend this year? No 
money. No problem. When you lack the 
funds, you've got to rely on your originality. 
And so I'm here to offer several costume 
suggestions for those of us on a low budget, 
an extremely low budget. 
First of all, you could get really crazy with a bed sheet. I mean. that doesn't cost much money, right? So strip your bed and get original. If you've got a white sheet, you could be plain and go as a ghost or use it as a toga, hut if you want to be really original, you could paint a red stripe on a white bed sheet and go as a Tylenol. I bet you'd he the only Tylenol out there. Or you could bind yourself up tightly in a white sheet and go as an escaped mental patient. But that might be pushing it a little. 
Say your white bedsheets have faded to a light brown color. Then wrap that light brown bed sheet around yourself and go as young Obi Wan Kenobi. And if your really want to get wacky, grab a red stick of licorice and use that as your light saber. 
Or if you have black sheets, you could grab a pack of cigarettes and go as lung cancer. Or maybe skip the bed sheets all together. And just go with the whole ciga­rette thing. Take a pack of cigarettes, per­fect your smoke rings and go as "Crazy Blowing Smoke Rings Man". Or take a white hat and a put on a black t-shirt and go as the Marlboro man or the Camel posterchild or something. 
Okay, or if you want to get away from the 
whole smoking thing, that's fine, too. You 
could put on some hiking boots, grab a big 
backpack and maybe even a canteen and go 
as a Carroll Hall resident. Or you could go 
with that whole layered look and put on a 
sweatsuit and some gold chains and go as 
Coolio, the funky rap star. 
If you want to get really random, you 
could attach some random stolen dining hall 
utensils to your body with masking tape and 
go as "Stolen Goods From the Dining Hall 
Lady." But that's sometimes overdone. 
You'll probably see a lot of those walking 
around. So you might want to avoid that. 
I think another funny costume idea is to 
wear a Boston College ballcap and go as a 
loser. Or you could put on an obnoxious 
amount of cologne (or perfume) and go as 
"Excessive Cologne Man." There's always 
the option of wearing your dirtiest laundry 
and going as "Dirty Laundry Lady." 
My point is that you should go out tonight 
and you should 'dress up and lack of funds 
is no excuse. So just whoop it up. That's 
all. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•ToOAY'S STAFF 

News Amy Schmidt Production Deborah Schultz Tara Grieshop Jackie Moser Sports Megan McGrath Accent Dave Treacy Ashleigh Thompson Graphics Meli~a Cragan Tom Roland Lab Tech Viewpoint Brandon Candura Victoria Prane 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• Wom..o AT A GLANCE 
Thousands volunteer to douse 'Devil's Night' 
DETROIT 

Hundreds of vacant buildings were razed so they couldn't be set on fire and thousands volunteered to patrol the streets Monday for this year's drive against the destructive Devil's Night tra­dition. 
"The primary thing is to keep the fires away, to protect lives and property," said Cliff Russell, a spokesman for Mayor Dennis Archer. The night before Halloween has for years been celebrated as Devil's Night in Detroit, a night of arson fires in trash piles and houses. 
Devil's Night fires peaked at 297 in 1985, but declined after then-Mayor Coleman Young initiated a major anti­arson campaign enlisting thousands of Detroiters to safeguard their city. 
Late Sunday, firefighters reported 35 fires, short of the city's daily average of 40 to 60 blazes. 
This year, at least 25,000 volunteers signed up to patrol streets, a number similar to previous years during Young's administration. 
How a scare affects 
the human body 
Source: Principles of Human Anatomy 
Fear stimulates the sympathetic division of the bOdy's nervous system. setting off the famed fight· or-flight response. Adrenalin courses through the body, and .~, 
Pupils dilate 
Heart rate increases and 
rapid breathing occurs 
Blood pressure rises 
t't{.· Blood flows faster to the ·· ~· skeletal muscles, cardiac \i muscles, lungs and brain ! -the organs most useful In fighting off danger 
Meanwhile, the organs less useful in the flight-or-light 
.,./1 action take a break. The digestive system shuts down 
Blood sugar rises, adding to the body's energy supply 
.;;•·
·.· Hair follicles contract, .··. producing •goose pimples•
rF 
AP/E. Glanton. R Toro 

Scientists find homosexuality gene 
NEW YORK 
Scientists have found new evidence that a gene inher­
ited from mothers helps make men homosexual, bolster­
ing a study that made headlines in 1993. "Our result 
says that genes are involved in male sexual orientation, 
although they certainly do not determine a person's sex­
ual orientation," said Dean Hamer. an author of the 
study. "There probably are other biological factors like 
hormones, for example, and other variables we simply 
don't know anything about yet." The study follows oth­
ers that have suggested a biological influence in sexual 
orientation, but scientists still can't explain what makes a 
person homosexual, heterosexual or bisexual. The latest 
study does not identify a specific gene. But like Hamer's 
1993 study, it suggests such a gene resides in a particu­
lar region of the X chromosome, one of the microscopic 
thread-like structures that carry genes. Men inherit the X 
chromosome from their mothers. Hamer said there was 
no way to know how strongly the gene influences the 
development of homosexuality in men. Researchers 
looked for such an effect in women but found no evi­
dence for it. 
New storm threatens Philippines 
BACOLOD. Philippines 
A powerful new storm headed toward the Philippines on Monday just as the nation took stock of the damage inflicted by Tropical Storm Zack, which killed at least 117 people. Regional disaster officials said at least 75 people died in Negros Occidental. a province about 380 miles south of Manila which took the brunt of the storm. Another 20 people were killed in nearby Iloilo province, where flood waters were as deep as 10 feet in some city streets. Other towns and regions reported a total of 22 fatalities. Zack slammed into the central Visayas islands Saturday and Sunday with peak winds of 65 mph. It de­stroyed hundreds of houses, roads and bridges, knocked out power supplies in many areas, and sank ferries and boats. Meteorologist Ludy Alviar said the new storm, named Angela, is just as strong as Zack, with peak winds of 65 mph and gusts up to 84 mph. It was moving at 4 mph toward the eastern Visayas and the coast of the northern island of Luzon. 

New inductees in Hall of Fame 
CLEVELAND 

Musicians as diverse as David Bowie and Gladys Knight and the Pips will be inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum, the hall's directors announced today. Rock Hall Director Dennis Barrie and Rock Hall Foundation Executive Director Suzan Evans announced the 1996 inductees in a news conference at the newly opened haiL Other members of the Class of 1996 include Pink Floyd, Jefferson Airplane, Little Willie John, the Shirelles and the Velvet Underground. Folk singer Pete Seeger. honored as an early influence on rock, and FM radio pioneer Tom Donahue will also be inducted in cere­monies Jan. 17 in New York City. To be eligible for induction, a rocker must have first recorded at least 25 years ago. Some 800 musicians. critics and other rock experts voted on the inductees from among a slate of nominees selected by a committee. Bowie, who began as a cult phenomenon in England in the 1960s, and later emerged as a leading performer of the '70s and '80s is already represented in museum displays. Pink Floyd, best known for its surreal stage shows has also donated artifacts to the museum. 
Teens decapitate corpse for curiosity 
OGDENSBURG, N.Y. 

Three teen-agers are accused of digging up a body in a graveyard, then cutting off the head and carrying it around in a plastic bag. "When I found out, it just made my stomach turn," said Vera Nichols, owner of Nichols Funeral Home in Ogdensburg. "This goes beyond just devilment. It's a lot different from last Halloween, when kids tipped outhouses and such things. These are bad boys." According to statements from two of the teen­agers that were obtained by the Watertown Daily Times, the three went to Potter's Field, the gravesite for the poor, to shoot and bury a dog belonging to a brother of one of the youths. After killing the dog early last Tuesday, they began to dig a hole to bury it-but decid­ed to dig up a casket instead. "I was kind of curious about what people look like when they die, so I dug two more holes down to the body," one of the boys said. State police arrested the boys after answering an anony­mous complaint of gunfire. 

Thesday, Oct. 31 AccuWeather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The AccuWeather~~~>torecast for noon. Tuesday, Oct 31. L1nes separate high temperature zones lor the day. 
' ' '' ' 
jtndianapolisj 57° I 

ILL 
• 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1995 AccuWealher. Inc. 

ti'"''"i. B ISS! !Til 0 ~ § i) eJ. U 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STDRMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY ViaABioclat«JPr&5S 
Atlanta 50 41 Dallas 79 56 New Orleans 71 62 
Baltimore 59 44 Denver 52 31 New York 58 46 
Boston 56 49 Los Angeles 77 62 Philadelphia 59 48

:ft;~~~::: ~ ~ (t ~ .£SA 
Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Chicago 53 34 Miami 86 72 Phoemx 87 60 Via Associated Press Graph/csNet C 1995 AccuWeather. Inc. 
Columbus 55 42 Minneapolis 53 33 St. LOUIS 64 40 


r---~-------~--~-----­
Tuesday, October 31, 1995 
• RESIDENCE HALL ASSOCIATION 

SMC to address viability of controversial mascot 
By HEATHER CROSS 
News Writer 
Competition, money, and con­troversy. These may be the makings for a good movie, but last night they were the topics of diseussion at the Saint Mary's Hesidence Hall Assodation (RIIA) meeting. 
The competition is the Late Night Olympics. The games, held annually at the Joyce Cen­ter. are an opportunity for resi­dence halls to combine their talents in head-to-head compe­tition with one another. Teams are comprised of members from two or three halls from both campuses. 
This year's Olympics, it's ttmth year on eampus, will be lwld on February 2. starting at 7 p.m. The games usually last until the early hours of the morning, but vietory is always worth tho small priee of sleep deprivation. HilA reps are ex­ei tiHI about this year's Olympics. with the eneourage­nwnt that last year's winning team induded Saint Mary's stu­dtmts. 
As far as money is eoncerned, the HilA's fundraising commit­ten is working hard to raise money for the organization. Baseball caps. with the school's mascot "Belles" embroidered on it, will be on sale within the next two weeks. T-shirts are also on the list of sale items, with two different designs available by January. 
The first design will feature the phrase "Two woods di­verged by a golden dome, and 1 ... I took the tree-lined road that leads to Saint Mary's, and that has made all the differ­ence." 
The second shirt design, while not as profound, offers the famous Top Ten: Reasons to go to Saint Mary's College. The list will be a compilation of students' ideas, dropped in boxes in each hall. The RHA will offer a discount to those students who's ideas are in­cluded in the shirt. 
And now, the controversy. For many years, students have debated on the viability of Saint Mary's mascot, the Belles. On November 29, students will be able to voice their views on this topic in an open forum spon­sored by the HilA. Hopefully, students can draw this contro­versy to a close and decide whether they want to be known as "Belles" in the future. 
In other HilA news: 

•McCandless Hall will be holding its Halloween Party tonight at 8:30 p.m. Admission is $1. 

TOP TEN REASONS TO APPLY FOR THE SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
AcCELERATED PROGRAM IN NURSING: 
#10 Graduates holding baccalaureate degrees from 
institutions other than Saint Mary's are eligible.  
#9  Students receive individualized attention.  
#8  The faculty is dedicated and professional.  
#7  If you are a woman with a baccalaureate  
degree as of May, 1996, in any major other  
than nursing, you are eligible for the program.  
#6  The classes are small, with an 8: 1 student to  
professor ratio.  
#5  The focus of ALL classes is nursing.  
#4  There are on-site clinical instructors.  
#3  Through this program, you will earn a B.S.  
degree in Nursing from the #l ranked  
Saint Mary's College.  
#2  This is the only program of its type in the region.  
#1  You will receive your B.S. degree in Nursing  
in only 13 months. (Program begins May 28,  
1996, and ends in July of 1997.)  

APPLICATION DEADLINE: jANUARY 15, 1996 
FoR MORE INFORMATION, CONTACT HEATHER MORICONI IN THE ADMISSION OFFICE AT 219/284-4587 
-t%1­
SAINT 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, IN 
The Observer • NEWS page 3 



Himes urges ND to 'widen scope' 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
Associate News Editor 
Michael Himes, a former pro­fessor of theology at Notre Dame, was back on campus yesterday afternoon, calling on 
Notre Dame students to widen the scope of their education by considering the duties and obli­gations they 


have to the Himes rest of humanity as they work to be successful in their careers. 
The colorful Himes, whose classes were immensely popu­lar among students when he taught at the University from 1987-93, based his talk on many points that he dwelt upon in his book "Doing the Truth in Love: Conversations about God, Relationships and Service." 
The book, published in Au­gust, was utilized this summer by hundreds of Notre Dame students who completed sum­mer service projects at sites around the country. While vol­unteering for eight weeks at various service agencies, the students incorporated the writ­ings of Himes as well as other authors into essays, papers and journals describing and analyz­ing their experiences. 
Combining personal experi­ences of service work with a student's classes is something that Himes strongly encour­ages. 
"I can't imagine that any fac­ulty member wouldn't want you to involve your personal experi­ence in your coursework," Himes said. "They're another way to add to the number and quality of conversations that you have throughout your life. 
To Himes, experiences and the conversations that arise from them comprise one of the best methods of learning, a method that should be ex­tended beyond one's years in college. 
"It is an immense danger to cut yourself off from experi­ences later on in life. If you do so, the impact your earlier ex­periences had on you will begin to fade," he said. "You must keep the connections open. Otherwise, your wide vision of the world begins to narrow." 
When Americans use the word 'community,' said Himes, nine out of 10 people think it means a circle of like-minded people. But that conception of community can lead successful individuals like Notre Dame graduates astray, Himes added. 
"The problem with likely be­ing successful is that in Amer­ica, where community means dealing with like-minded peo­ple, you tend to be around peo­ple who are also successful,'' Himes said. "But far more im­portant than being successful is being human, and that means you must keep in contact with people who aren't as lucky as you." 
Himes sees that the calling to be mindful of the problems of the poor is evident not only in theology and service work, but also in more practical disci­plines such as business. 
"It is awfully important that Notre Dame has the good busi­ness school that it does, not only for Notre Dame but for business. There is a tremen­dous danger in how we talk about business today, what with its reliance on the bottom line and cost-benefit analysis, " Himes said. "Life is more than cost-benefit analysis. What is the cost-benefit analysis on marriage? On parenting? On friendships? 
"Is that the way business has to be? We must raise that ques­tion, especially at the university level." 
According to Himes, a conflict arises between the capitalistic drive for profit as detailed in Adam Smith's "The Wealth of Nations" and humanity's obli­gation to help the poor. 
"Much of capitalism is based on a view of human beings that says that they are motivated by one thing only: self-interest. According to Adam Smith, any other motivation is irrational," Himes said. "But the Catholic Church says that human beings are capable of self-gift, which Smith would say is irrational. This isn't to say that self-inter­est is wrong, but it shouldn't be the sole motivation, as Smith says it is." 
Universities where education ties together theological con­cerns and corporate world de­cisions are the only places that can be relied upon for an hon­est treatment of these prob­lems, according to Himes. 
"If discussions like these don't come out of Notre Dame, or Boston College, or George­town, where are they going to come from?" 
Now teaching theology at Boston College, Himes was hon­ored with an award recognizing his contributions to the educa­tional mission of the Center for Social Concerns at yesterday's talk. The award was presented by Student Body President Jonathan Patrick, who utilized writings by Himes during his summer service project in Ecuador two years ago. 




Federalists spare secession 
By DAVID CRARY 
Associated Press 
MONTREAL 

By a perilously narrow mar­gin, Quebeckers heeded pleas for national unity and voted against secession Monday, sparing Canada a traumatic fracture but leaving the French-speaking province split down the middle. 
With 97 percent of the 22,400 polling stations reporting, the federalists Jed by 50.37 percent to the separatists' 49.63 per­cent. Federalists celebrated raucously at their headquar­ters, while separatists -who came closer than many had dreamed just a few months ago -wept. 
Quebec's separatists, who 

lost a 1980 independence ref­erendum by a 60-40 margin, improved their performance so dramatically this time that they are sure to shake ofT their dis­appointment and launch anoth­er try. 
About 82 percent of Que­beckers are French-speaking, and roughly 60 percent of them voted for separation. As expect­ed, roughly 90 percent of English-speaking and immi­grant Quebeckers voted No. 
The vote will leave scars in Quebec. But it will hearten the throngs of Canadians from other provinces who joined marches, rallies and vigils last week beseeching Quebec to stay. 
A separatist victory would have spelled economic turmoil 
.....~k' GO TO OFFICER 
·~ TRAINING ~~ SCHOOL. 
.,.,.,. Put your college degree to work ~· in the Air Force Officer Training School. Then, after graduating from Officer Training School. become a commis­sioned Air Force officer with great starting pay, complete medical and dental care. 30 days of 
vacation with pay per year and management opportunities. Learn if you qualify for higher education in the Air Force. CALL 
AIR FORCE OPPORTUNITIES TOLL FREE 
l-800-423-USAF 

for Canada -and perhaps the greatest political crisis of its history. The nation would have lost one-fourth of its people and one-sixth of its land, a fracture without precedent among pros­perous Western democracies. 
The narrow federalist victory will leave Quebec bitterly divid­ed, with defeated nationalists likely to seek scapegoats and plot a future campaign to achieve a sovereign, French­speaking nation. 
The turnout, after a pas­sionate campaign, was excep­tionally large: 92 percent of the roughly 5 million registered voters. 
In Verdun, a working-class suburb of Montreal, unem­ployed Bertrand Fontaine, 48, explained his Yes vote. 
"I worked 18 years for a company, and now I've been unemployed for two years," he said. "That's enough. Maybe with new companies here, I'd have new chances. I have noth­ing to Jose." 
Annette Dupuis, 83, said she was proud to cast a No vote in the Montreal suburb of Anjou. 
"My country is Canada," she said. "This is very important to me. If the Yes vote wins ... I will shed tears. It will be the death of Canada." 
Prime Minister Jean Chretien, a Quebecker committed to keeping Canada intact, voted in his hometown of Shawinigan, but offered no predictions. 
The separatists' most charis­matic voice, parliamentary opposition leader Lucien Bouchard, said Quebeckers should take pride in the cam­paign -one of the few times in world history where citizens were offered a vote on whether to secede. 

--~ -------~------------------., 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, October 31, 1995 

Fraternity receives recognition 
Special to The Ob~erver 

The Notre Dame chapter of the Beta Alpha Psi accounting honorary fraternity was re­cently commenced at the orga­nization's national conference in Orlando, Fla. 
The Notre Dame chapter re­ceived recognition for its high level of membership among those students who were eligi­ble to join the club. 
The national chapter recog­nized ten schools where over 70 percent of all eligible stu­dents were initiated as mem­bers. 
Florida prof could be Jihad head 
By ARIEH O'SULLIVAN 
Associated Press 

JERUSALEM 
The name surfacing as the possible successor to Islamic Jihad's slain leader matches that of a British-educated busi­ness professor said to have headed a Florida think tank that specialized in Islamic issues. 
A leaflet distributed at Is­lamic University in the Gaza Strip during the weekend said the Palestinian group will be headed by Ramadan Abdullah Shallah, 40, a business admin­istration professor. 
Announcements by radical Islamic groups are traditionally made through leaflets distrib­uted in the Gaza Strip and West Bank. 
The leaflet gave no detailed specifics about Shallah's back­ground. But a documentary film maker who studied Islamic Jihad said he was the same man who headed a Tampa, Fla., think tank called World Islamic Studies Enterprise. 
Palestinian sources in Gaza said Monday that Shallah was one of the founders of Islamic Jihad, an Iranian-backed group that has tried to scuttle the 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. join The Observer staff. 

The Office of Special Events presents 



APOLLO 13 
COMMANDER 

JAMES LOVELL 
IN PERSON 
April 1970. A "routine" mission to the moon. A malfunctioning spacecraft leaves the three-man crew in grave danger. The resulting tale, told by the astronaut in charge of the mission, is one of courage, ingenuity and unflagging human spirit. 
THURSDAY, NOV. 2, 7:30 P.M. 

O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
TICKETS $15 RESERVED/$10 STUDENTS 
On sale at the Saint Mary's box office, located in O'Laughlin, 9-5 Mon.-Fri. Visa, Discover, MasterCard orders and information at 284-4626. 
Last year, Notre Dame's en­rollment of 90.4 percent of all qualifying students as members made it the nation's second leading chapter in the category, behind only the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. 
Beta Alpha Psi brings to­gether outstanding students of accountancy to promote and advance the profession, in­crease the knowledge and awareness of its members in current professional events, and provide needed volunteer services to the University and the community. 
Rounding out the list of 
Israel-PLO peace process with deadly suicide attacks against Israelis. 
With a core of several hun­dred militant followers. Islamic Jihad is considered even more uncompromising in its opposi­tion to Israel than the larger Halllas group. 
The group blamed Israeli agents for the shooting death of its leader, Fathi Shakaki, on the Mediterranean island of Malta last week and has vowed revenge. Israel has not said if it played a role in Shakaki's death. 
Shallah was born in 1955 in Gaza City's Shajaiya refugee camp, a stronghold of radical Islamic belief. He earned his doctorate in economics from the University of Durham in Britain in 1990 and headed Is­lamic Jihad activities in Eng­land, Islamic Jihad sources said. 
His resume lists him as an assistant professor of Islamic economics at Gaza's Islamic University since 1990. 
Islamic Jihad sources, howev­er, said he left the Gaza Strip in 1991. 
In recent years, the resume says, Shallah also headed World Islamic Studies Enter-schools also receiving the award were Millsaps College, Mississippi State University, Marquette University, the Uni­versity of Colorado at Boulder, Brigham Young University, Washington State University, and Stephen Austin College. 
On location in Orlando to re­ceive the award on behalf of the University of Notre Dame were Beta Alpha Psi officers John Potter, Eric Lorge, Matt Gunter, Julie MacKinnon, Kyle Scheidler, Marc McDonald and Joe O'Malley, as well as Beta Alpha Psi Advisor James Wittenbach. 
prise, which is affiliated with the University of South Florida. 
U.S. authorities could not immediately confirm his involvement with that organi­zation. 
But Steven Emerson, who produced the documentary "Jihad in America," which aired on PBS-TV last year, said Islamic Jihad eliminated refer­ences to Abdullah's links to the University of South Florida in its announcement. 
Emerson said other informa­tion released by Islamic Jihad -including Abdullah's birth date, education and employ­ment history -matched that of the Islamic organization's director. 
"He is one and the same," Emerson said in a telephone interview from Washington, 
D.C. "I can tell you that better than I can tell you who my mother is. Everything is the same here." 

DEFENSE STUDIES 
at 

GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY 
The Georgetown University National Security Studies Program offers a Master ofArts degree in defense studies from one ofthe nation's most prestigious universities. The program provides a rigorous and balanced curriculum of advanced courses taught by recognized experts, including: 
•
Persian Gulf Security (Anthony Cordesman) ·Weapons Proliferation Ganne Nolan) 

•
International Economic Security (Bradley Billings) 

•
Defense Decision Making Process (Arnold Punaro) 

•
Emerging Security Challenges (Kenneth Adelman) 

•
U.S. Defense Policy (Stephen Gibert) ·Intelligence and National Security (Roy Godson) 

•
Problems of the Defense Industry (Loren Thompson) ·Congress and National Security Geffrey Bergner) 

•
Economics of National Defense (Robert Howard) ·Low Intensity Conflict (Chris Lamb) 


Ifan M.A. degree in national security studies matches your professional needs and careergoals, please call 
(202) 687-5679 
to receive an application package 
Application deadline Application deadline for the spring, 1996 semester for thefall, 1996 semester is December 1 is August 1 
Loans 

continued from page 1 
in loan industry, thereby driv­ing costs down for students." 
Under to language of the original laws governing Direct Lending, the market share was to increase to 60 percent and include any other schools inter­ested in participating in the 

McAda01s 
continued from page 1 
proach to teaching," which is "to try to have as much fun as I can." 
He said that his teaching philosophy is to provoke stu­dents to respond to four call­ings. 
The first calling, personal achievement, reminds students that "to whom much is given, much is expected." The sec­





0~ :.PRING BREAk' 
"~f11{M
.a~ 
....~ 
.."'.l 
...AC ~ 
c~ "~ 
.,~ .... ~
{Q6 
7 


$50°9() Bf3;~:..Ni~e:o~~~c~~~·
7. 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT: ERIC HYLLENGREN AT 634-1157 OR BIANCHI-ROSSI TOURS AT 

1-800-875-4525 
TOURS

••112 ~ IQQ !AID-IlliNI{ ;;PRING.'•• 
•PAATX£$ £V£RY Nrr£!! 10:30PM-.3:00AM• OFtN BAR AT lllE BEST 'LOBS ON lllE PLANET!! 
GO LOCO IN AC!APLILCOII 
9 
program. 
With the institution of this cap, banks will remain in firm control of 80 percent of the loan market and hold most of the power for setting loan rates. 
The bill will now head to the Conference Committee, where the House and Senate will at­tempt to reconcile their ver­sions of the bill for a final vote. 
ond calling is to be disciples of change, which McAdams describes as taking personal interest in improving the lives of those in need. 
The third calling, humility, challenges students to recog­nize that they may not always have everything in their per­sonal control. 
Finally, McAdams asks stu­dents to be joyful in respond­ing to these callings and "to make the most of our God­given sojourns on earth." 

------~-----~---~--­
---------------------~------~~------------------~---­
Tuesday, October 31, I 905 The Observer • NEWS 

Women face danger at work 
By MICHAEL HILL Associated l'ress 
ALBANY, N.Y. 
Women face just as much danger as men from violent attacks at work, with nurses and teachers among those most at risk. according to a study released Monday. 
Homicide is the leading cause of death of women on the job, and women in health care, education and social ser· viees face the highest risk of' violence at work, the Center for Women in Government at the Stntt1 University of New York at Albany concluded. 
About 260,000 women an· mmlly are victims of workplaee rapes, beatings and other forms of violence, according to the report. 
The study was commissioned by the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees and relied primar· ily on 1993 data from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. 
Workplace assaults serious enough to warrant time off from work injured 58 out of every 100,000 women in 1993. The comparable rate for men was 52 assaults, the study said. 
"There's this perception that violence is a male problem. What we wanted to point out is that women have the same or greater risk," said Dr. Sharon 
By SONYA ROSS Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 
President Clinton signed a law Monday retaining harsher penalties for crack cocaine than its more expensive, pow­dered form, pleasing police but angering critics who said he sacrificed black, poor people to appear tough on crime. 
The law keeps a five-year minimum sentence for pos­sessing 5 grams of crack -a cheap and smokable form of cocaine-and a minimum 10 months probation for possess­ing the same amount of pow-


You are not a a hole in your pocket renders you r e I u c t 
Harlan, an author of the study. 
Harlan said it's likely that many attacks are not reported, just like many incidents of domestic violence remain undetected. 
According to the report: 
•Female 
government em­ployees are several times more likely to be attacked than pri· vate sector employees; 

•The 
rate of non-fatal as­saults against black women at work is twice the rate for white women; 

•Nurse's 
aide, nurse, police officer and secondary school teacher ranked among the most dangerous jobs for women. 


page 5 

Clinton keeps harsh legislation on crack 
fllOOCh. But when 
you changeless, a n t I y call the folks collect. 
You dial 1800 CALL ATT. Your pangs of guilt are minimal. 
1 800 CALL ATT always costs less than 1-soo-cou.ECT: 
i\1\\'uys works li'om any phon!'. And always gets )'Oil the rl'lhohll' Alli:'J' N<·twurk.
trse 11 ,,.,,e,,.,.,.,. yo,·,.,. <~a· 
··mllfJIIs. 
Know the Code. I 800 CALL ATT That's Your 1t'ue C'hoice:'" 


AT&T 
Your True Choice 
• For mterstate call& Promotions exdudetl. 
Cll995 Al&T

1-1300-COIJ.ELT is a registered tmdemark of MCI. 
dered cocaine. 
The majority of those caught holding crack are black and poor. 
Those caught with powdered cocaine are mostly white and more affiuent. 
The Sentendng Commission recommended in June that the penalties be equalized, a rec­ommendation that would have taken effect automatically on Wednesday. 
However, Congress stepped in and approved legislation preserving the tough sentences, and Clinton signed that bill Monday. 
The measure's passage was considered a factor in a recent spate of uprisings at federal prisons in Alabama, Illinois, Pennsylvania and Tennessee that led the .Justice Department to order an indefinite lock at all federal prisons. 
Clinton said he signed the bill to send a message that "the penalties for dealing drugs are severe." 
The tougher sentences are necessary, Clinton argued, because crack carries with it so many devastating social ills. Crack is considered more addictive than powder and gives a quick. intense high. 
"I am not going to let anyone who peddles drugs get the idea that the cost of doing business is going down," Clinton said. He directed the U.S. Sentencing Commission to undertake addi­tional review of the sentencing issues and report new recom­mendations. 
Law enforcement groups praised Clinton's support of the tough sentences. 
"This was a difficult course of' action for the pmsident, and one fraught with political haz­ards," said Gilbert Gallegos, national president of the 270,000-member Fraternal Order of Poliee. 
Civil rights activists, however, said it renected Clinton's lack of will to carry out his own plea for racial unity. 
He made that appeal after 
O.J. Simpson's acquittal on murder charges revealed that blacks and whites in general had dramatically different views of the criminal justice system. 
''I'm profoundly disap­pointed," said Wade Hender­son, NAACP Washington bu­reau director. 
Jesse Jackson said in talking with Clinton earlier this month, he learned of a "big internal debate at the White House" over whether the president should veto the sentencing bill. 

$2300 

FLAT MONTHLY FEE! for long distance calls to: ELKHART • WAKARUSA BRISTOL•DUNLAP MIDDLEBURY•GOSHEN 
If you're spending more than $23.00 per month for calls, YOU'RE PAYING 

TOO MUCH! We can start your service today... I START SAVING NOW! i NO SPECIAL LINE OR INSTALLATION REQUIRED 
CALL USAT 
1-800-360-4990 
Mon.-Fri. 'til 6 p.m. 


---~--­
page 6 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, October 31, 1995 
Tudjman beats opposition Mideast nations put 
Croatian voters hand president unclear victory 
By JASMINA KUZMANOVIC 
Associated Press 
ZAGREB, Croatia 
President Franjo Tudjman won legislative elections. but got no clear mandate to pursue his increasingly tough line with Serbs in peace talks that start Wednesday. 
Weary of corruption and the poverty of war. voters gave Tudjman only 44 percent of the vote in weekend elections, despite the popularity of his government's recent battlefield successes against rebel Serbs. 
"This could make him more reasonable," Jelena Lovric, a Zagreb political analyst, said Monday. 
Under a complex apportion­ment system, Tudjman's ruling Croatian Democratic Union was expected to keep control of par­liament, but without the two­thirds majority it needs to amend the constitution at will. 
A half-dozen opposition par­ties did better than expected, especially in Zagreb, the capital and home to a quarter of Croatia's 4.2 million people. 
Tudjman opponents got two of the four Zagreb seats in 127­member parliament. 
Leaders of Tudjman's party had said they hoped to increase the president's power. 
Tudjman called the elections nine months ahead of schedule to exploit successful army offensives in May and August that ran rebel Serbs out of ter­ritory they seized in Croatia's 1991 war of secession from Yugoslavia. 
In campaign speeches, Tudj­man repeatedly threatened force to retake the last slice of Serb-held territory along the eastern border with Yugoslavia. 
Serbs agreed in principle to cede control of land, but talks faltered in a dispute over the length of a transition period. 
Alarmed by Tudjman's threats. U.N. and U.S. diplo­mats have warned him not to attack. 
Such a move could draw in 

Have 
something to 

say? Use The Observer classifieds. 
tANCUN·SOUTH PADRE ISlAND
1+E•ly booking savinus until Nov. 15, 1995
+Gu•anllld h-tPrice
+ Book ••rlr for tht lowest price & best proptrlies 
$99PI!!R FIOM 
fROM PERSON $3991L., South Padre Cancun ·1111: Witll Panama City uvenly dtlmaged ~y llrriclu Opal, allspiCe ilullin1 out fast 
1-800-SURF"S UP 
STUDENT EXPRESS. INC. 
----~-------------------------------­
~ :c .... 4 ~.!',J ..~ • price on development 
All sides will meet for peace in Bosnia ByGREGMYRE 
Associated Press 

AMMAN. Jordan
Bosnia peace 
Mideast nations presented
talks begin 
plans for an ambitious network
Wednesday in 
of roads, railway and airports
Dayton. Ohio. Key 
on Monday, saying the projects
figures in the 
could transform a region disfig­
negotiations: 
ured by age-old cor.flicts. mediator Richard Milosevic of Now they need $40 billion to Hoibrooke Serbia 
Chief U.S. Pres. Slobodan 
pay for it. 

the Serb-dominated Yugoslav army and wreck the U.S.-medi­ated peace talks. 
Observers say Tudjman's comparatively modest success could temper his saber rattling and boost the chances of U.S.­led negotiations beginning Wednesday near Dayton, Ohio. 
The key players besides Tudj­man are presidents Alija Izetbegovic of Bosnia and Slo­bodan Milosevic of Serbia. 
It "can only benefit the talks," Lovric said. "Tudjman's self-confidence is now bound to deflate raising the chances of peaceful reintegration" of east­ern Slavonia. 
Though the talks are aimed primarily at ending bloodshed in Bosnia. Tudjman now has forced Croatia's land dispute into the mix. 
Domestically, the election results are a clear blow to his 







Miss SaigoV\ 
Tickets on sale at the LaFortune Information Desk 
beginning today for only $22 which includes bus to/from Chicago. 
Free time before and after show to enjoy the city! Buses will depart at 4 p.m ... Show begins at 8 p.m. Appropriate attire required (i.e. no jeans) 

Sponsored by the Senior Class of 1996 
Priority availability given to Seniors 
Several countries at the three-day Middle East-North Africa Economic Summit pre­sented blueprints for huge de­velopment projects for the next decade, but only a fraction are likely to make it off the drawing board. 
Major Western donors say tight aid budgets at home will limit their support, and a pro­posed Mideast development bank is having difficulty raising its target of $5 billion in capi­tal. 
But that didn't stop Israel, Egypt, Jordan, Palestinians and others from dreaming big. 
Israel alone presented plans for 218 regional projects that would cost an estimated $25 billion, ranging from an inter­national airport on the Red Sea to a fiber-optic telecommuni­cations system. 
The Israeli presentation, held at Jordan's Royal Cultural Center, was packed with curi­ous Arab businessmen, includ-
APM/m. J. Castello 
party. 
Despite near-total control of radio and television, along with an election law amended in its favor, the party could end up with a slightly weaker hand in parliament than it had before. 
Outgunned opposition parties campaigned heavily against government corruption and said Tudjman posed a threat to peace. 
"As far as we're concerned, time of (autocratic) rule in the 
parliament is over," said Zlatko Tomcic, head of the Peasant Party, part of an opposition 


Wednesday November 1, 1995
coalition that won about 20 percent of Sunday's vote. 

126 DeBartolo
Others said Tudjman under­estimated widespread weari­

6:30PM 
ness over the country's deep economic woes. "This is a clear message from 

Sophomores in Colleges of Arts and Letters and the deprived, the hungry and 
Business Administration Are Welcome!
the angry," Lovric said. 
ing some from Gulf states that have long avoided dealings with Israel. Key countries such as Lebanon. Syria. Iraq and Iran that haven't made peace with Israel did not attend the conference. 
"It's time to build trust and put aside suspicion," Yaacov Tsur, Israel's minister of agri­culture, told Arab executives. "We know it's going to take time, but we must start now." 
There's a painful need for greater economic cooperation. 
Only about 10 percent of trade in the Middle East takes place between countries in the region. Numerous wars have sapped economic growth as governments spent more on armies than social develop­ment. Political quarrels limited, and in some cases prohibited, commerce between neighbors. 
"I know there is some cyni­cism about whether this regiOn is open for business," Com­merce Secretary Ron Brown said Monday. "But the fact is, there is a lot going on. Ameri­can companies are doing busi­ness in this part of the world every day." 
Brown and others have em­phasized the need for increased private investment in a region where foreign businessmen have often been discouraged by warfare and political instabili­ty. 






r----~--------~ 

VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, October 31, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 

NOTRF. DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S 0HICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
John Lucas Managing Editor Business Manager Elizah<th Regan Joseph Riley 

News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advenising Manag<'r ........................... John Potter Vicwpoinc Editor..................Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ......................Jen Mackowiak Spons Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Ktista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan S.Unt Mazy'• Editor .................... Parti Carson Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer IS the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Norte l>;.amr du l..1L and Samr Mary's College. It doe~ not necessarily reflect rhe policies of the administra­rion of either anstituuon. The news is tt'portcd as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torial~ rcprcr.cnr the opinion of rhe majoricy of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accont Editor, !'how Ediwr, Sports F.diwr. and Saint Mary's Ediwr. Commemancs, leuers and Inside Columns prc5.cnt the views of thl' authors, and not necessarily rhosc of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Sainr Mary's com­mwury and wall readers. The fr« expression of varying opinions through lcners is encouraged. 
~erver Phone Lines 

Edilor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor/Viewpoint Spurts News/Photo  631-4541 631-4543 631-5323  Advertising Systems/Marketing Dept. Office Manager  631-6900I 8840 631-8839 631-7471  
Accent/Saint Mary's Day Edilor I Production t;cncral lnlorm.tlion  631-4540 631-5303 631-7471  Fax Viewpoint Ad E-Mail  631-6927 E-Mail Viewpoint.1@nd.edu observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  


• AND IN THIS CORNER ••• 
Where will the budget and our leaders take us? 
W
hat a tremendous victory for the the real important issues, unlike Clinton financial reins of our God-granted coun­by the media or flamboyant wealthy Glory of the Lord this past and his ilk, who seek to divert public try to Dole, Gingrich, and Gramm, the candidates for the presidency. Saturday upon the fields of Holy Battle. attention to their cutesy, unimportant originators of the Reaganvoodoonomics Naturally, it matters not one whit that The wisdom and strength of God surely political squabbling. Let us focus on of the Fat 80s. Let them complete this this MTV commercial makes no mention rested on Notre Dame during the pro­dismantling the New Deal and Great glorious Republican Revolution and of what a balanced budget would entail, tracted conflict. It could not have been a Society social programs foisted on the change the pigmentation and wallet and how many programs would be dras­mue shift in the weather patterns American people by half a century of sizes of the American public forever. tically cut or altogether excised to which caused the brief rain shower dur­wasteful leftist legislation. I say it's a lie that Jimmy Carter bal­account for another tax-cut for those ing Boston College's last possession. Yes, let our Congressmen decide to anced his last budget as president: it's who make more than $200,000 per Surely the grace of lie who is so Huge slash MedicAid spending and permit obvious that his extremist policies were annum, and also for a new laser space descended upon Valiant Lou, as He the majority of our elder citizens a hur­to blame for the inefficiencies of the MX station to protect us from potential gazed lovingly down upon His Chosen ried and deserved entry through the missile and the Star Wars program, the incoming nuclear missiles which no students. Notre Dame has, obviously, Heavenly Gates. (And even if our S & L scandal and the Iran Contra scam, longer exist (Star Wars was only a $500 proven itself worthy of the title The beloved Senators and Representatives and even the devalued dollar and subse­billion prototype anyway; now we've got Team of the Almighty, the repository of receive complete Medicare and quent three trillion it right). College student all true Catholic character, peerless in MedicAid coverage after retirement, to dollar deficit that a have far too much to do all of academia. go with their guar­seemingly senile aged as it is besides having to (I must eonfess anteed lifetime pen­actor appeared to 'surely the grace of bother themselves with I was eertainly sions. surely they approve, convincing a He who is so Huge petty details about a imprHssnd by deserve more than gullible public that budget proposal which
descended upon valiant 
the Ireland the average citizen America needed to will affect their lives for­Trophy created in light of all their compete with the Evil Lou, as he gazed loving­ever. purposfdy for Matt Apple difficult delibera­Empire, taking only a ly down upon His Finally, it is unthink­such a Divinely tions.) mere eight-year term able that some Inspired Let us permit to change the US from Chosen students. Notre should suggest Football Congress to mort­the world's greatest Dame has, obviously, Congressmen them­Oecasion. The gage our children's creditor nation to its' selves might help their
proven itself worthy of 
citizens of the educational future; greatest debtor. country save billions of Hepublic of after all, only six-I say it's all a the title The Team of the dollars by refusing leg­Ireland must be proud to see two presti­digit households need prepare their Commie plot, and that islative freebies. What
Almighty.' 

O
gious American universities' athletic future high-class generations for the those responsible would our hardworking tnams daim rnpresentation of the collec­high finance world economy, and we ought to be shot for politicians do without tiVf~ Irish people.) will in all probability require a larger the traitors they are free limousine rides, f course. the NDIBC classic wasn't underclass population to support all of to the great American Dream and Way free vacations, free room and board at thn only vital greenback exehange us here at the top. of Life, that they may be killed by the the most expensive hotels, free health during this past week. The debate over Let us permit our eloquent statesmen Justice of God, in His Mercy. Not that insurance, and corporate kickbacks the Fndnral Budget ragns on, preparing to eliminate unnecessary and economi­I'm an extremist. Far from it, I just want from the N.R.A. and R.J. Heynolds? to eonw to a head as Clinton continues cally restrictive acts such as the Clean what's best for my country, like Oliver Why, Washington DC, would come to a to thrHaten vetoes of all of Congress's Air and Water Act, which prevent the North and Admiral Poindexter, heroes standstill, putting all sorts of hard-work­well-thought-out bills. How could this development of our vast and unused that they were. ing, decent folk out of work in the Hed pandnr bear refuse to be eowcd by a wilderness property. The oil companies It is refreshing to see the youth of this Light district. You've simply got to lngitirnate Mandate of' the People such and motor vehicle companies on whom Great Land become involved in the understand how this economy works if as Nnwt (;ingrieh's Contract to Kill? Let our very cultural heritage as Americans voting process that made this country a you're going to be an informed us nxamint~ the issue f'urther, remaining depends cannot possibly survive another beacon of Hope among the other tyran­American voter today. as non-biasnd and non-partisan as pos­eonspiratorial blow from those rapidly nical countries of the world. Even on the Well that's all for now, and we thank siblt~. rising, environmentally sound, alterna­accursed MTV channel -devil-worship­you for your support. God bless 
First orr. nnvnr mind that the United tive energy source corporations and ping though it may be -our youngsters America. States is thn only Western Democracy their tree-hugging lobbying peacenik are exhorted to vote for Balancing the without an adequatn hHalth eare plan hippie supporters -a battle that jeop­Budget. And it's about time, wouldn't Matthew Apple is a cynical creative ror its dliznns. Never mind that among ardizes the very backbone of America's you say? It's about time that the writing graduate student at Notre tlw first world nations we currently have stable economy, whieh is the envy of teenagers of America voted according to Dame. Get your free guide to Politics, the highest ratns or illiteracy, teen pr-eg­countries such as Mexico. their conservative consciences, regard­American Style, at nancy, and violent crime. Let us focus on And, by all means, let us hand the less of whether they can be easily duped matthew.t.apple.l@nd.edu 
• 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
aJHATARE IT'5 ANOTHB< t\0 WAY, MAN.' IF7HISWA'3 YOU TAU<!NG PI&a a:P&R.­ave OF Ha< LOONeY TUN& 
AI<T '37VN75, OON'T YOU7HINK
A80/.!T, MAN? RJRM!WaAI<T' 

I'!?eeABlE 10 n;ur §He!5
/.001< ATHER I H~f!!fEqr 

INACOMA, MAN, 7Rt.ETMf3lrl? 5TAJ<e MY /.IF{; ON 17.1 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"If men were angels, no gov­
ernment would be neces­sary. If angels were to govern men, neither external nor inter­nal controls on government would be necessary." 
-James Madison 


ACCENT
page 8 Tuesday, October 31, 1995 

~u wait anxiously for that letter to come in the mailbox. When it does, you whip aut your campus map and 
~ wander haw being there will determine your activities, friends, loyalties and attitudes. It may be the biggest part ofyour life at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. It's your dorm. Like it or not, e~·eryone has lived in one, and at one time or another, has elicited some response when mentioning their home. Although it's obviously not fair to judge an entire group ofpeople based merely on where they receive their mail, dorm stereotypes do exist. 

Alumni 

fun wannabe frat the Wake cool 
"Those seem right on. The Wake is important. In some ways, we do want to be a frat, but it's just dorm unity." David Mullen, Junior 
Badin 

withdrawn small, but beautiful inside laundry masculine 
"The masculine part is probably just because of our enthusiastic football team. We're full of sin­gles so people may think we're withdrawn, but it's like living in a big house. Everyone is really friendly." Holly Campbell, Senior 
Breen PhiliPs 

cool annoying friendly-but-overweight 
"I don't know why people would say we are annoying, we just have a lot of spirit. There's a sense of community because we're a smaller dorm. I'll admit there are a lot of food activities, but probably not more than any other dorm." Pam Tyner, Senior 
Carroll 

spirited nice hermits grateful-if-you-visit 
"Those are pretty true. I can see how people say hermits, but we get out more often than peo­ple think we do. We know everyone in the dorm, and not a lot of dorms can say that. Once people visit and get exposed, they want to come back." Rudy Christopher. Senior 
Cavanaui!h 

drunks party girls cool stuck-up 
"It's a cool dorm because of the tradition and location. A lot of freshmen and sophomores do drink a lot, but probably not more than any other girls dorm." Laura Marmole, Junior 
Dillon 

jerks crazy parties strange 
"Those are true to some degree, but could prob­ably apply to a couple of dorms on campus. The party part has definitely toned down." Erik Johnson, Senior 
FarleY 

smokers smokers smokers smokers 
"Smoking isn't allowed inside the dorm, so everyone has to smoke outside and that is why it's so recognizable. Not everyone in Farley smokes though, I swear!" Kelly Cox. Senior 
Fisher 

preppy effeminate weird friendly 
"I agree with friendly. We have a good, tight group of guys. Effeminate would apply more to Dillon guys." Tom Coyne, Junior 
Flanner 

athletes Freshmen parties lost good-looking 
"All of the above." Andy Chica, Sophomore 
Grace 

hotel underachievers nice scandal 
"Those are kind of harsh. Grace isn't really close as a unit. but the sections are among the closest groups of friends you'll find on campus. That's a really positive thing." Ryan Liebl, Junior 
Holy Cross (SMCJ 
cliquey partiers loud sorority-like 
"As a resident of Holy Cross hall, I feel that our dorm has a unique sense of friendship, which may be absent from the other dorms, because of the size and the home-like atmosphere." Alex Fisch, Junior 
Howard 

small cockroaches no-one-knows-where-it-is 
"Those are pretty true. It's strict here too, but there's a good sense of family and community.'" Elizabeth Rice, Junior 
Keenan 

hilarious unique a mess nice 
"Those are pretty true. It's a decent dorm." John Labarca, Junior 
Knott 

hot cool not Angels fun dances 
"I totally agree. Since freshman year it's been that way. The not angels brings up some pretty scandalous pictures in peoples' minds, but it's all in their imaginations!" Kristin Grothoff, Senior 
Le Mans (SMCJ 

sociable snobby factory-like 
"I love Le Mans because l can walk d{)wn to the computer lab at 3 a.m. in my pajamas to work on a paper and you can't do that in any other dorm." Bernadette Pampuch, Junior 
~--~ --­


ACCENT
Tuesday, October 31, 1995 page 9 

A 
ccent staff members questioned random students to discover their immediate reactions when certain dorms were mentioned. The adjectives that appeared most often are recorded here. Also conducted randomly, reactions to these claims were given by dorm residents. No more need to whisper, here they are, out in the open. They're biased, subjective and rude, so enjoy. And unlike some reputations that can ruin your life, these are 
meant simply to be amusing. 
Lewis 

nice drinkers isolated Motel 6 
"Lewis may not be the most attractive building on campus, but we're the largest female dorm, and that adds a lot of diversity." Tricia Tildsley, Sophomore 
LYons 

good parties religious far away pretty 
"Those are pretty accurate. There's no better location-we have a great view of the lake. I wouldn't want to be anywhere else." Leilani Pascale, Sophomore 
McCandless CSMCJ 
superlicial McManlnss nice to 1111eh other standollish 
"In McCandless we have a deep sense of com­munity. and all the girls who live there are very dose." Marie Smith, Sophomore 
Morrissey 

tradition big FathP.r Joe smells 
"Everyon11 knows thn rooms here smell, but the guys and the tradition make up for what the building lacks." Alex Bruni, Sophomore 
Pangborn 

worth visiting unknown young trc1uhlnd-past -si nee-eon version 
"Unknown delinitely fits. It's not a party dorm." Leslie Tavan~s. Junior 
Pasquerilla East 

nice friendly sophisticated out-of-the-way 
"They're obviously describing me." Carol Kurowski, Sophomore 
Pasquerilla West 

athletic nice fun loving fakn 
"l'vn rwver really thought about it like that. don't really think you can labol a dorm. I can see athletic because' of our football, but fake, I don't know wlwrn that camn from." Hebecca Dalton, Sophomorn 
-Ashleigh Thompson, Assistant Accent Editor 
Regina CSMCJ 
introverts immature close isolated 

"I have lived in Regina for three years, and that's even longer than I have lived in my home-_ town, so Hegina feels like home to me." Becca Pogorzelski, Junior 
Siegfried 
proper a good view like-a-family 

"I think our dorm is very close. The junior class is very bonded. As for proper, I don't really think so. Maybe as a whole that's what people think." Erin Ippolito, Junior 
Sorin 
few parties rich-alumni-sons Monk respectable 

"Those are pretty good except for the rich alum­ni sons one. I don't know how many rich alumni sons there are. I'm not one." Alex Saksen, Junior 
Stanford 
drunks egotistical chauvinists average 

"Obviously I disagree. Our dorm is a very diverse group. I can see how people would meet those descriptions, but they don't define us as a group." Brad Rister, Senior 
St. Edward's 
great parties ,, laid-back fun thumbs up 
"St.Ed's used to be the quietest dorm on cam­pus, but its one of the most fun dorms now. There are no singles in St. Ed's, so there are always at least two or three people to have a good time with." Cart Peters. Senior 
Walsh 
rich-alumni-daughters stuck-up money snotty 
"You can see how people would say that, but that's not the majority. Snotty people are every­where. That's not fair to generalize." Christine Archibeck, Sophomore 
Zahm 
rowdy crazy zoo punks 

"People always rag on Zahm because we're the most spirited dorm. We're the best dorm on cam­A \ pus and we have a lot of unity." Pete Maloney, Senior 
This poll was conducted with help of Accent 

Writers Joey Gallagher and Pat Mitsch. 

( ­

ACCENT

page 10 Tuesday, October 31, 1995 


Alliance 
for 

Catholic 

Education 
Making its mark 
By KRISTA NANNERY 
Accent Editor 
en the Alliance for Catholic Education, or ACE, 
eld their first informational meeting in 1993, 


hey expected an average-sized crowd. The pi.lot program, conceived by NO grad Sean McGraw and V1ce President and Associate Provost Father Timothy O'Meara, hoped to send somewhere in the neighborhood of ten v?l­unteer teachers into elementary and secondary parochial schools in the southeast. 
When 200 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's seniors showed up for the first meeting, that ten quickly become 
40. Last year, they had a total of 80 teachers. This year, they're hoping for 105. 
Up until 1993, few of the 12 percent of Notre Dame seniors choosing to go into some kind of service work were choosing to enter teaching, perhaps b~cause Notre Dame lacked an education department. A vmd needed to be filled· ACE was the solution. Sister Lourdes Sheehan, former 'secretary of Education in the US Catholic Conference, was appointed program director and things just took off from there. . . . 
ACE seeks to create motivated, spmtual and professiOn­al educators to serve the country's Catholic schools.The two year long program not only puts its participants at the front of the 

and adjunct Notre Dame faculty on the campus of Notre Dame. While the participants are taking the necessary classes 


~_,..=--=--=-----:---;--r-:-:--:---,
"We are told that we must be like chi/­dren to enter the kingdom of 
heaven. Sometimes, I won· der. Did Jesus mean to be like the child who forgets his shoes for P.E., or like the child who grins all daybecause she finally "got it"? 
How about my student who mistakenly listed 1'Annoyingof the Sick" as one of the Catholic Sacraments? These chi/­
dren have no idea how much theyhave affected 
Th
me. eyhave pushed me to try Dan harder and have hugged
MCGinty 
me tightly, giv­
ing me tears of joy, tears of 
pain and tears of laughter. I 
wonder if we get recess in 
heaven?'' 
for their Masters, they are also sit­ting in on classes 
in South Bend area 
schools. Working
closely with experi­enced educators. ACE teachers observe for a bit before they are given the opportu­
nity to take over for a day or so. By the time August and September roll around, they're almost fully pre­
pared for their own classroom. Once in the class­room, each ACE'er is assigned to an 
experienced teacher for guid­ance and support. "They work with you in whatever way is necessary,"
Sister Sheehan 
says. 
ACE draws its teachers from a large variety of 
majors in order to 

"M·y mentor offered me on.e of the most 
valuable pieces of advice I have received as a teacher. He told me that my seventh graders were going to be tough, but that '1ifthey know you care 
about themr theyW do anythingfor you.'' ·· · .. .I've gotten involved in ou 
girls' junior high volleyball team. One of my most memorable experiences was the second match, althovgh we lost. . . . .. Michelle the· game, I drove two of my Stt{· Nasser dents home. Although theu ·house was in much better condition than the dilapidated ones surrounding. it, seeing the condition they live in really enabled me to put things in perspective." 
teach a wide variety of subjects. "We're teaching every­thing. There's not any one subject that's being demand­ed," says Associate Director Lou DelFra. Sister Lourdes Sheehan does add that science teachers are pretty hard to 
successful. DelFra, a former Catholic 
school educator himself says, "There's some­thing about our age group that this program taps into. I think the idea of being able to touch the life of someone else is appealing to ND grads." ACE already boasts a retention rate of close to 100 percent. 
Staying small and living in community are thus two of the more important aspects of the program. Many of the current ACE'ers cite their living environment as one of the program's many positive aspects. Each diocese involved with ACE must agree to take at least four teach­ers. The diocese and the local Notre Dame club then aids the teachers in their search for housing. 
Not only do four to six teachers live together through­out the course of the program, but all of the participants meet five times a year in a retreat setting, aiding person­al spiritual development. In fact, religion plays a large role in almost all of the ACE'ers Jives. Many of them teach religion classes in their schools. 
The innovative nature of the Alliance for Catholic Education's philosophy and organization has helped win the program a grant from Bill Clinton's Americorp. ACE one of 11 programs to receive such a grant. The grant gives each ACE teacher $4725 to be applied towards stu­dent loans or further graduate education. In addition to this money and a Masters degree, ACE furnishes its par­ticipants with a $9000 stipend a year. Summer room ~n.d board is provided free of charge, and once the partiCI­pants reach their respective schools, living in community certainly saves a bundle. Health insurance is provided by the different dioceses. 
This year, the Alliance for Catholic Education will be welcoming 65 new teachers to its community. As the new group says hello, the first group of ACE'ers will be saying goodbye. According to Sheehan, a large portion of these plan to stay in teaching, at least for a couple of years. continuing yet another Notre Dame tradition. 
How stressed are you? 
By JOHN GALVJN. At:cem Medical Olrr«pondant 
>1•sEvery Week A.Replay ofMidterms?. Try 
· Checking Out Your Stress Levels. Panic 
Attack! (Is This Normal?) 
At school. most of us can't avoid stress. But we can learn to behave in ways that lessen its effects. Researchers have identified a number of factors that atl'e¢t one's vulnerability to stress • ·among them are·eating and sleeping habits, caf­feine and alcohol intake, and how we express our emotions. The following questionnaire is designed to help you discover your vulnerability quotient and to pinpoint trouble spots. 
Rate each item from 1 (always) to 5 {never), according to how much of the time the state­ment is true for you. 
Be sure to mark each item, even if it seems not to apply to you-for example, if you don't smoke, check otT 1 next to item 6. 
1. 
I eat at least one hot, balanced meal a day. 1 2 3 4 5 

2. 
I get seven to eight hours of sleep at least four nights a week. 1 2 3 4 5 

3. 
I give and receive affection regularly. 1 2 3 4 5 

4. 
I have at least one relative within 50 miles, on whom I can rely. 1 2 3 4 5 

5. 
I exercise to the point of perspiration at least twice a week. 1 2 3 4 5 

6. 
I limit myself to less than half a pack of cigarettes a day. 1 2 3 4 5 


7, I take fewer than five alcoholic drinks a week. 1 2 3 4 5 
8. 
I am the appropriate weight for my height. 1 2 3 4 5 

9. 
I have an income adequate for basic needs. 1 2 3 4 5 

10. 
I get strength from my religious beliefs. 1 2 3 4 5 

11. 
1 regularly attend club or social activities. 1 2 3 4 5 

12. 
I have a network of friends and acquain tances. 1 2 3 4 5 

13. 
I have one or more friends to confide in 

about personal matters. 1 2 3 4 5 


14. 
I am in good health (including eyesight, hearing, teeth). 1 2 3 4 5 

15. 
I am able to speak openly about my feel­ings when angry or worried. 1 2 3 4 5 

16. 
I have regular conversations with the peo­ple I live with about domestic problems -for example, chores and money. 1 2 3 4 5 

17. 
I do something for fun at least once a week. 1 2 3 4 5 

18. 
I am able to organize my time effectively. 1 2 3 4 5 

19. 
I drink fewer than three cups of coffee (or 

other caffeine-rich drinks) a day. 1 2 3 4 5 


20. 
I take some quiet time for myself during the day. 1 2 3 4 5 


To get your score, add up the figures and sub­tract 20. A score below 10 indicates excellent resistance to stress. A score over 30 indicates some vulnerability to stress; you are seriously vulnerable if your score is over 50. 
You can make yourself less vulnerable by reviewing the items on which you scored 3 or higher and trying to modify them. Notice that nearly all of them describe situations and be­haviors over which you have a great deal of con­trol. Concentrate first on those that are easiest to change -for example, eating a hot, balanced meal daily and having fun at least once a week ~ before tackling those that seem more difficult. 
Medical Minute appears every Tuesday in the Accent section of The Observer. John Galvin is a senior English major who has worked for two years as a surgeon ·s assistant in a hospital. 
classroom. but helps them earn • 

find. The program serves grades
their Masters of Education ~ 

K-12 in 52 parochial schools in behind the scenes as well. 
c.; FO~ • 
the south and southeast. 
During the summer 

Currently serving Florida, months, ACE partici-~ Alabama, Georgia, North
pants are given the 

Carolina, South Carolina, 
tools they'll need to Mississippi, Louisianabecome professional 

and Oklahoma, ACE
educators-the pro­

will be expanding into gram's first goal. ACE 
Texas this coming
teachers take classes ~ summer. Exponentiallike "Classroom man-a. ' growth rates notwith­agement," "Personal ,....,. 

standing, the focus is growth and develop-~ staying close to home.
ment" and "Social 

"We want to stay
and cultural founda­

small. We're busy
tions," a class which enough," says DelFra.

focuses on teaching 

Sheehan adds, "We
in an ethnic environ­really have to look at

ment. Because Notre our resources and howDame does not offer fast we can grow.. .it's 

a Masters of 

really important that we
•Education, the classes ~ • know everyone and that 
are offered in conjunc-~ 
the support system is 
tion with The University ~
0 
there." 
of Portland, a Holy Cross 'l~ The relatively young age of

congregation school. Classes ~

\?r::)(\ 
the program's participants is one 
are taught by Portland faculty l.. ).. 
of the factors that makes ACE so 
Tuesday, October 31, 1995 The Observer· SPORTS page 11 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Sandberg ends retirement 
Ry BEN WALKER 
A."ouatcd Press 
NEW YOHK 

Hyne Sandberg, the All-Star second baseman who abruptly r!ltired from baseball in the middle of the 1994 season, will rnturn to play for the Chicago Cubs next year, The Associated l'rnss hmrned Monday. 
Sandberg's comeback with tlw Cubs will be announced Tuesday, a team management souren told tlw AI'. Terms were not irnmmliately available. 
lie may move to play third base next year. Sandberg be­gan his Cubs' career at that po­sition in 1982 before shifting and becoming one of the best all-around second basemen in the game's history. 
Sandberg joins Michael Jor­dan as the second famous Chicago athlete who wore uni­form No. 23 to unretire this year. Like Jordan, Sandberg decided he'd been away too long from a sport he always loved. 
Sandberg was placed on the voluntarily retired list by the Cubs on June 13, 1994, after 

his sudden retirement at age 
34. But the 10-time All-Star will return next year at 36. 
He is a career .289 hitter with 245 home runs and 905 RBis. He is closing in on the record for home runs by a second baseman, held by Joe Morgan at 266, and a nine-time Gold Glove winner. 
At the time of his retirement, Sandberg, the 1984 NL MVP and holder of several major league fielding records, said he wanted to spend more time with his family and had no in­tention of returning. 

Ryne Sandberg will announce today that he will return from retirement to the Chicago Cubs for the 1996 baseball season. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
Tickets for MONET exhibit  A DEVOTED IRISH FAN NEEDS  I NEED 2 NAVY TICKETSII  •••cancelledcancelledcancelled'''  Hi to all strugglersl You know who  
NOTICES  for Nov. 3 or Nov. 5. Please call Brad at 634-5118. Negotiable.  GA'S TO ANY/ALL HOME/AWAY GAMES.  Call JILL x2272  Halloween ghost stories has been  you areii-A&M  
219-232-0061, 24 HAS.  I NEED 2 NAVY GAs  cancelled. There will be no ghost  $5.50 HAIRCUT  
December Grads ...want to eliminate  Need ride 2 Halloween PH ISH  Call Frank at x3389  stories this evening at 11 p.m. in  
your financial wornes? Get Smart!  show.X4880  Washington Hall.  VITO'S BARBER SHOP  
TICKET-MART, INC.  I need one Navy GA for Mom.  1525 LINCOLNWAY WEST  
Pre Med? Don't shortchange your  need roomate 4 2ndsem.call 273­ WANTED  Please help. Call Alex -1969  Notre Dame Student Players apolo­ 
future ...Gel Smart!  4569monrque  GA'S FOR ANY/ALL  gizes for the inconvenience this  233-4767  
HOME/AWAY NO GAMES.  NEED 2 GA'S FOR NAVYIII  may cause.  
Grad Students ...take care of those  C.A.G.  BUY'SELL'TRADE  CALL CHRIS X-1953  •••cancelledcancelledcancelled'''  Top Ten Lines from the Fall 9.5  
financial woes-Get Smartt  (219) 232-0058-24 HAS.  Washington, D.C. Seminar  
Spring Break Bahamas Party  FOR RENT  I NEED TIXS TO ALL HOME  I HAVE 2 NAVY GA'S call4144 w/best offer by lues.  JOHNNY The itch test was a breeze!  10. The gov't now spends twice as much money on welfare as it does  
Cruise! Early Specials! 7 Days  GAMES.272-6306  7 wonderful months of memories ...  on national defense.  
$2791 Includes 15 Meats & 6  HOMES FOR RENT NEAR NO  NAVY TIX NEEDED  & still looking forward to the next.  9. Was he naked?  
Parties! Great Beaches/Nightlife!  232-2595  CALL x0733  Love ya babe,  8. Guys, this is HIGHLY embarass­ 
Prices Increase 11/21 & 12/151  NEED NAVY TIXI  TOMMY  lngl  
Spring Break Travel 1·800·678­ THAT PRETTY PLACE. Bed and  AMY 616-473-2636  I Need Navy Tickets!  7. You know, I think you're alright.  
6386  Breakfast Inn has space available  It is very Important  "I don't remember, I don't recall  6. White House security: Where's  
for football wknds. 5 rooms with pri­ I need tickets to BC and Navy.  that I get them!  I have no memory of anything at  your escort??  
Spring Break I Panama City! Early  vate baths. Located in Middlebury,  Please call Bryan at 272-4249  Please call ASAP.  all."  5. Well, Mr. Judging Mel  
Specials! 8 Days Oceanview Room  30 miles from campus. 1-800-418­ Kelly @ 2604  -Peter Gabriel (for JL)  4. Would you like to borrow my  
With Kitchen $1291 Walk To Best  9487  Need Navy tix. 282-1638  roommate's COs?  
Bars! Key West $2591 Cocoa Beach  NEED 1 NAVY TIC.  Man standing over a dead dog,  3. No specials for anyone that asks  
Hilton $1691 Prices Increase 11/21  3 BEDROOM HOME 5 MINUTE  Need two Navy Tickets  CALL X3832  by a highway in a ditch  for specials!  
& 12/151 1-800-678-6386  WALK TO ND GOOD AREA  Call Lara at x4416  he's looking down kinda puzzled  2. Peace ... and a little extra!  
2773097  poking that dog with a stick  1. 22 in a million.  
Cancun & Jama1ca Sprrng Break Specials! 111% Lowest Price  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE  NEED 4 NAVY GA's. Call Paul collect at (216) 974-7142.  I NEED NAVY Tickets badly. Both GA's and Student...  car door flung open standing on highway 31  ·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-.-·-·-·-.-•..·-·  
Guarantee! 7 Nights Air From South  HOME FOR  Please leave a message  like if he stood there long enough,  ND/SMC BALLROOM DANCE  
Bend & Hotel From $4191 Book  ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE  Need 2 Navy GA's  on my machine ....  that dog'd get up and run.  presents:  
Early! Save $100 On Food/Drinks!  TO CAMPUS.  it is crucial I get them!  287-8696  HALLOWEEN PARTY/  
Spring Break Travel1-800·678­ CALL 272·6194 AM OR 232-9620  call ASAP @634·2604  -Bryan  1-80 is damn boringllll-which is  MASQUERADE BALL  
6386  PM  why I'd like some company when I  '7·10 PM tonight at Lafortune  
& ASK FOR SANDY  I NEED GA'S FOR NAVY. PLEASE  drive home to Fairfield County  Ballroom  
"The Play's the Thlng"-­ CALL MEGAN X2638.  Connecticut for Xmas .... if you're  'Open to the publici  
National Shakespeare Company's  Need 1 roommate now &1 more  interested and can drive stick call  'Wear a costume for free  
HAMLET. Washington Hall, Nov.3. 8pm. Sponsored by SUB Cultural  next sem. $195 Turtle Creek 273­2366  NEED 2 Navy GA'sll call Martha at X4092  I NEED NAVY GAs! If you have two,  Dave at 4-1216 or 1-5323.  admission! ....-.-.-.-....-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-*-.-.-.  
Arts.Tiickets at Lafun Info. Desk  call Kathy at x3572  "'"' 4th Day Mass All Saints Day  
BED & BREAKFAST  Need 1 Navy Ticket for bro  7:30 p.m. Wednesday, Keenan  '"'HALLOWEEN PARTY"""  
Wantedll  Lovely bdrm for 2 w/private bath.  PLEASE Call Tim 273-4389  I need 3 NAVY tixlli  Stanford Chapel ... be there""""  COME TO BRIDGErS HAL­ 
Individuals, Student Organizations  For ND/SMC parents & friends.  Please  LOWEEN PARTY-Come in cos­ 
to Promote  Navy weekend. 277·6323.  1 NAVY NEEDED. BRIAN x1716.  Call Paul x3006  TRAVEL FREE FOR SPRING  tume and recieve great prlzesll  
SPRING BREAK Earn MONEY and  BREAK '96  Open Tues. 8:00-3:00  
FREE TRIPS  Two bedroomed apartment for rent.  Need Navy GAs  Eric  233-4435  Form a group of 15 and travel  
CALL INTER-CAMPUS PRO­ 1.2 miles from Hesburgh Library.  Help Melli  FREE +earn $$$  SMC Senior Class Dinner At  
GRAMS  Very safe area. Possibility of keep­ I HAVE NAVY STUD TIX 4 SALE  I need 2 Navy GA's  CANCUN, SOUTH PADRE,  Bruno's! Thursday, November 2  
http://www.1cpt.com  Ing horse or pet. 631-5118 or 277­ 1-6696  WILL PAY BIG  BAHAMAS, FLORIDA, CARNIVAL  5:00-7:00 PM All the pizza and  
1·800·327-6013  5828.  Jen 273-6162  CRUISES. Food and Drinks includ­ pop that you can handle  
S.O.S.! NEED LOTS 0 NAVY  ed. (800)574-7577 ext. 302  
ILOST & FOUND I ._I_F_O_R_SA_L_E_.......  TICKETS.  KAT X2322  I@ #$$$$$$%"&$$$$$'()1@ #$%" Hey-Are you selling NAVY GAs?  ADOPTION ... INTERESTED IN  $5 tickets on sale in the dining hall during dinner all week.  
NEED NAVY TIX FOR BROTHER  I'd love to buy them!  X3713  HEARING MORE??  
FOUND: LLBean Grey Fleece Vest near Stepan Center. Call Dave @  NO Ski Team T-Shirtsl .... * * •••••••••••••• ~ ~ -----­-----­--­-­ AND SISTER. KEITH 3482  NEED 2 NAVY GA'S  Warm, professional Indiana couple, lots of experience with children,  Nannery ­What do you think I am? Cheap or something? -McGrath  
634-4245  Really coot and only $101  NEED 2 NAVY GA'S  WILL PAY GOOD$$$  would love to talk to you about what  
Call Potter@ 232-2955 today!! I  CALL TAD 273-8629  Jon@ 4-1389  we can offer your precious child.  Besides your driving capabilities, I  
..... LOST ....  Stability, nurturing, love of learning,  guess you're good enough.  
SMALL GOLD HOOP  Great for you, your roomie, or  HELP I NEED  travel, lots of extended family, and  
EARRING  Christmas presents!  NAVY TIXII X0979  Wanted:  Navy Ticketsll  full-lime mom are just some of the  Corbett,  
CALL 3709  Rachel634-1675  things that your child would experi­ Happy Halloween from all the fellasl  
Long Woman's COAT, twd, brwn  I NEED NAVY TIXII  ence in our home. Interested in  
WANTED  Ieath collar, sz 8 $75'Ciassic-style bridesmd DRESS nvy, long, 2pc. sz  Call Todd x1646  I need 2 Navy GAslll  hearing more? CALL US (day or night). Expenses paid. Theresa &  See. I wrote this whole classified about 307's wild night. But some­ 
6$75 277.7263  I need NAVY GAs! Please help me.  Call Mandy at x4092.  Lee 1-800-600-8482.  thing happened. So here's the top  
TRAVEL ABROAD AND WORK­ X3713  three.  
Make up to $25-45/hr. teaching basic conversational English in  EXPECTING? Beautiful, claSSIC. while crib and changing table for  Have 2 NAVY GA's  PERSONAL  GHOSTSIIGHOSTSIIGHOSTSII  3. Ergo, the Lamb drinks. 2. Phwapaaaal (Right out her  
Japan, Taiwan, or S. Korea. No  sale. Includes mattress, sheets,  Call AL @ x2377  Notre DAme Student Players Is  nose.) Christina made her do it.  
teaching background or Asian lan­ bumper pad, and ruff.  Two years  000 THE COPY SHOP  000  sponsoring ghost stories from  1. I drank. I puked. It was better  
guages requrred. For information  old and in excellent condition.  Need 1 Navy Stud. Tik.  LaFortune Student Center  11 :00·12:30 on Halloween night.  than Cats.  
call: (206)632-1146 ext. J55841  $250. Call631-6479.  -Matt 273-8709  We're open for your conveniencelll  Thanks to Steve and John for mak­ 
Mon-Thur: 7:30am· Midnight  Washington Hall is the place.  ing it all possible. Maybe we will ask  
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT •  Elect guitar perfect cond $225 obo  I NEED GA'S MEGAN X3890  Fri.: 7:30am -7:00pm  Come lind out about ghosts in that  your wives ...someday.  
Students Needed I Fishing Industry.  amp free 273-5380  Sat.: Noon -6:00pm  building, and others too.  
Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per  TIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIX  Sun.: Noon • Midnight  Jake and Elwood rock our world.  
month. Room and Board I  88 Toyota Tercel,68k, air,exl con.  needed: 1 BC ticket (stu or GA)  (closed home football Saturdays)  Admission $1.00  
Transporationl Male or Female. No  $3000 firm.  call dan at 273·6183 If you can help  Scare you there.  McGrath...we'll see how cheap you  
experience necessary. Call  277-3503  out. thanx.  0D0D000D0D0D0D0D0D0D0  really are...nannery  
(206)545-4155 extA55842  TIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIX  QUALITY COPIES, QUICKL Ylll  GHOSTSIIGHOSTSIIGHOSTSII  
For Sale: Futon (couch/bed)  THE COPY SHOP  To Dave Treacy, Tim Sherman and  
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ "'Perfect for dorm room'"  FOR SALE N.D. GAs  Lafortune Student Center  GHOSTSIIGHOSTSIIGHOSTSII  your wonderful, patient roommates:  
Seasonal & full-time employment available at National Parks, Forests  In great condition Ill $75 Call Bob at 273-4212  call271·9412  Phone 631-COPY 0D0D0D0D0D0D0D0D0D0D0  Notre DAme Student Players is  We are sorry. We are so sorry. We are very sorry. We were foolish  
& Wildlife Preserves. Benefits +  I NEED USC, BC & NAVY  sponsoring ghost stories from  and immature and would just like to  
bonuses! Call: 1-206·545-4804 ext.  Room at the St. Mary's Inn. Parent's  GA'S.272-6306  Happy birthday Michelle Wennerll  11:00-12:30 on Halloween night.  say that we feel REALLY bad. Did  
N55842  Weekend  we mention we were sorry? Don't  
Nov.3 and Nov.4  HELP! Desperately seeking 2 GA's  Calif. actress-writer wife & photog­ Washington Hall is the place.  kill us, Megan and Tara  
Seeking RIDER(S) to FLORIDA  Call Megan x1269  for Navy. Call Sarah @ 273-6875.  rapher husband wish to adopt new­ Come find out about ghosts in that  
Dec 14 return Jan 13.  born. Will provide love, nurturing  building, and others too.  Misdemeanor,  
Call Dyan 4-0979  TICKETS  Need 1 Stud Navy Ticket Call Patty@ 4015  environ., educ., financial security. Hollywood Hills home has large  Admission $1.00  I hope those blue jeans kept you warm. Next time I go to the car.  
Babysitter • ECDC student pref­ back yard and loving ciog. Call  Scare you there.  you're coming with. At least there  
ered. $5.00 par hour. About 6-8 hr.  I NEED A TICKET FOR NAVY  I'm selling 2 Navy GA's.  818/241-5535 collect. Legal &  was no mud-sliding on Saturday.  
per week. Call Lea 272·5029.  Call Beth at x4565  Call4-2514  Confidential.  GHOSTSIIGHOSTSIIGHOSTSII  -G  

~--~--~ ----­

-~--------~--------­
page 12 
-

Defense sparks first-round upsets 
The Observer • SPORTS 

Women's Pairings 
1 Pan born 
8 0-C 
1 Pangborn 4 PE &p.m. 
5 Lewis 

Sunday Sunday Wednesday •--N~ov.._,_._,.5,____ Nov.12 

By TODD FITZPATRICK Sporrs Wrirer 
Suffocating defense plus a punishing running attack equaled two upset victories in the first round of the men's in­terhall football playoffs on Sun­day. 
Sixth-ranked Flanner served notice to their next opponent that they are more talented than their ranking suggests, as third-ranked Alumni found out by losing 6-0 to the Cocks. 
"The running game is what we're focusing on," Flanner captain J.P. Fenningham said prior to Sunday's contest. 
This was obvious by the Cock's second drive of the game. when junior quarterback Scott Lupo ran the option and pitched to Jeremy Lyons who dove across the goal line for the touchdown_ 
But Planner's defense was the key to victory. Alumni tried to put together a successful drive of its own late in the first half. but Fenningham's inter­ception returned the ball to Flanner. 
Flanner's defense in the sec­ond half was just as impressive. On Alumni's second possession of the half. the Cocks halted their fourth down attempt just a few feet from the first down marker. 
With time running out in the second half, Flanner junior Anthony Dragone ended Alumni's last scoring opportu­nity with a sack. 
Fifth-ranked Fisher defeated fourth-ranked Keenan thanks to the efforts of outstanding running back Dayne Nelson and a team defense that smoth­ered Keenan's offense in the second half. 
After exchanging turnovers to begin the game, Fisher took over and began its offensive attack by passing to receiver Dan Karosen. On the next play, Fisher employed the option to 
· perfection. Nelson received the pitch and powered his way inside the five yard line, setting up a score on a quarterback sneak. The extra point, howev­er, was missed. Keenan countered quickly by manufacturing a drive of its own. With a steady running at­tack, they drove down to Fish­er's two yard line. From there, Keenan powered its way into the end zone and then took the lead with a successful extra point attempt. Fisher's defense made a huge play early in the second half by sacking Keenan's quarterback and knocking the ball loose. Fisher recovered, and the of­fense quickly took advantage of the opportunity. Nelson made a run worthy of any highlight reel. fighting off a Keenan tackler and scampering for the touchdown. On the two­point conversion attempt, Karosen recovered his team­mate's fumble in the end zone. With two minutes remaining, Keenan had one more chance to make a comeback. Fisher came up with the big play once again when defender Mike Do­herty picked off an attempted pass to seal his team's victory. 
at Cartier 
3Walsh PM 6 Lyons 
7p.m. 6 Lyons 
7 Badin 
2PW 7 Badin 


Men's 
continued from page 16 
tion deep in their own territory, Wigton picked off a Tim Nelson pass and returned it to the 22 yard line, setting up a Zahm touchdown. In the fourth quar­ter, the front seven forced a Carroll fumble, sealing the Zahm victory. 
'The defense played well, and considering the windy circum­stances, the offense ·played very well also," said Wigton. "I think the only team that can beat us is ourselves." 
In a game that featured stel­lar defensive play and grind-it­out offense, the Studs of Stanford defeated Dillon in their first round playoff match­up 7-0. The contest may not have been the most exciting, but it showcased two teams who showed a lot of heart. 

Both defenses played well all day. Each team faced fourth down on every drive, that is ex­cept for one. In a series that consumed the last few minutes of the first quarter and almost the entire second quarter. Stanford moved the ball down the field with a consistent rush­ing attack. After numerous runs by running back Doug Pollina and quarterback Mike Browne, Pollina finally punched it in from 2 yards out, giving Stanford a 7-0 lead that would stick for the rest of the game. 
Tuesday, October 31, 1995 
Men's Pairings 
1 Zahm 

8 Carroll 
1 Zahm 6 Flanner 1 p. 

3 Alumni 6 Flanner 
Sunday 

at Stepan  
2p.m 5 Fisher 7 Stanford  4 Keenan 5 Fisher  
2 Dillon 7 Stanford  

Stanford's defense, led by linemen Ted Casiera and Ryan Lynch, never did budge. Dillon had its chances, but seemed to have all the bad luck on this day. On third down, with the ball on the 12 yard line. Dillon Andy Sgro rolled out and tossed a touchdown pass. One prob­lem, though. Sgro stepped past the line of scrimmage before his throw, nullifying the score. The penalty resulted in the Joss of down, and the Dillonites were stopped on the ensuing fourth down. 
--., 
Chinese-American 

I
Restaurant & Cockt~il Lounge 1\uthentic Szechuan, M:ndarin & Hunan C'uisir.: 

Lunches starting at ..... $4.25 Dinners starting at ..... $5.95 Banquet rooms availabl~ for up to 200 
1130 Dixie Way N., South Bend 
(next Ul Rarid&ll's Inn ) 
Voted.Be~t 
Oriental RestuuranJ.' in Michiana by··· ,.o; 
Midziana N()ltX-­

Tuesday, October 31, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• WOMEN'S INTERHALL 

Pangborn, PE roll in first round 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Sports Writer 
On Sunday, the women's ln­terhall football playoffs got un­derway with the eighth-ranked Off-Campus Crime looking to upset the top-ranked Pangborn Phoxes, and the fifth-ranked Lewis Chickens looking for revenge against the fourth runk(~d PasqwJrilla East Pyros. 
There were no major upsets on Sunday as both Pangborn and P.E. went on to win 12-0. 
Pangborn's defense wa.s the key to the f>tlOxes' win. Their defense did not allow the Crime's offenso to get started. On their first offensive posses· slon, the Crime's rushing and passing atta<~ks were ineffec­tive. und they were forced to punt. 
Pangborn's ofl'ense was pow­erful, as the Phoxes scored on their first possession. but the attempt was called back because of a holding penalty. 
The penalty did not stop them, as Phoxes' quarterback 
M.T. Kraft found running back Trish Sorensen wide open in the corner of the end zone. The extra point attempt was called an illegal forward pass and was ruled no good. 
Pangborn stayed charged for the second half and posted an­other quick six, when Kraft out-ran the defense sixty plus yards for a touchdown. The extra point attempt failed, resulting in a 12·0 shutout of the Crime. 
"It was a good game for both sides. but we managed to come out on top," stated Phoxes' running back Sorensen. 
PE matched Pangborn's scoring efforts, despite the best efTorts of Lewis. 
The Chickens came out charged for the game under the leadership of Angie Auth. She helped the Chickens march down the field to the goal line. Then the Pyros' defense took over holding the Chickens scoreless in the red zone. 
The Pyros took over deep in their own territory. P.E. 's quarterback, Elizabeth Plummer, was the key to the Pyro's first offensive position. 

Interested in doing computer graphics for The Observer? Call Tom at 4,1786 



JAZZMAN's GRILL & BAR 
525 N. Hill Street • 233-8505 
PRESENTS: 

t--lallowee~ Colle9e Ni9ht 
T vtesday, Octobel" 31 Dool"s opeV\ at 8:00 
Featuring: 
The Green Lantern Band 

• Plus Lady Melo-"D" and other guest DJ's spinning 
favorite spooky music to Tootsie Roll, Booty Call, and Perculator between breaks. 
• Prizes for the best costumes, dress to please or to scare. 
$5.00 Admission • Lincoln Bar Option 
• Both dance floors open until close Must be 21 and over 
She fooled the Chicken's of­fense with the option, for a gain of 10 plus yards. Then she broke through the Chicken's defense and outran the defenders for a sixty-yard touchdown. On the extra point 
attempt,  Auth  sacked  
Plummer.  The Pyro s went up  
6-0.  

The Pyros' offense proved to be too strong for the Chickens as they traveled straight down the field. 
Pyros' running back Christy Oleniczak proved to be the key for the Pyros in the second half. Oleniczak had an amaz­ing diving catch just short of the end zone. Then the back got a hand off and charged into the end zone for the touchdown. The extra point attempt was no good, and the Pyros' went on to shutout the Chickens 12-0. 
"We played well all around, especially the defense, who posted a shutout," stated Lisa Deibler, "We are looking ahead to Pangborn. It would be nice to upset the number one team." 
WolDen's 
continued from page 16 
third down quarterback sack, Walsh appeared to be losing its momentum. But on Lyons' third down, Walsh's Mary Ko­valak picked off a Julie Byrd pass and ran it back for the ty­ing touchdown. 
Lyons rallied on their next possession, steadily working the ball upfield. On third and one. a pass from Byrd was completed to wide-out Jennifer Layden for the touchdown. Lyons consolidated their lead on the extra point play with a pass to Lisa Novak. Walsh's offense was given the ball with 
1:14 remaining, but a second down interception gave Lyons the win. 
...
• HOCKEY 
leers travel to MSU for key CCHA n1atch 
By MIKE DAY Spons Writer 
They are as different as night and day. 
One is a collegiate hockey gi­ant. The other is merely searching for an identity. One is Jed by the winningest coach in NCAA history. The other is guided by a newcomer with just one victory to his name. 
From the head coach on down to the towel boy. the Notre Dame and Michigan State hockey teams could not be more different. However, both teams will be in search of an important CCHA victory tonight when they meet at the Munn Ice Arena in East Lansing, Michigan. 
"This rivalry has the potential to be a good one in the CCI lA," said Spartan coach Ron Mason. "Their program has a lot of potential for improvement. and I think you'll see a great deal of that in the future." 
The Irish hockey program is building on the hope and en­thusiasm coach Dave Poulin has instilled in his first year at the helm. Michigan State is a perennial power looking to maintain their dominance un­der the legendary Mason, who leads all NCAA coaches with 727 lifetime victories. 
Last year, Michigan State fin­ished 25-12-3 and earned a berth in the NCAA 1 ournament. However. after splitting last weekend's games against Lake Superior ( 4-1 loss) and Ferris State (6-3 win), the Spartans enter tonight's con­test with a disappointing 3-3 overall record, including a 2-2 mark in CCHA play. 
After losing several players off of last year's successful squad, sophomore forwards Richard Keyes (four goals and seven assists) and Mike Watt 

A Fighting Irishwoman at 1 week old/ 
(two goals and two assists) have done their best to pick up the slack for the Spartans. Sophomore goaltender Chad Alban has been solid so far this year, allowing under 3.5 goals per game. 

In 1994, while the offense struggled for the most part to put the puck in the net, the Irish defense turned out to be a bright spot in a disappointing season. This season, however, the tables have turned, as the Irish heud into tonight's game averaging 4.2 goals per game while giving up a whopping 5.2 goals per game at the defensive end. 
"The defense needs to pick it up for us to be successful," said senior defenseman Garry Grubber. "We are giving our opponents too many easy op­portunities, and they have been taking advantage of them." 
For the Irish to have.any chance of upsetting Michigan State. they will have to receive more consistent play at goal­tender. Sophomore Matt Eisler has struggled in the early stages of the season, and fresh­man Forrest Karr has been unable to pick up the slack in the three games he has relieved Eisler. 
"We're at a point where we should be 5-0 instead of 1-4," said Eisler. "I have not played like I've wanted to so far this year. We need to get better play at goaltender. and we must play tight defense in or­der to get where we need to be." 
The improved play of the of­fense has been a major sur­prise for the Irish. Freshmen forwards Brian Urick (five goals) and Aniket Dhadphale (four points) have emerged quicker than anyone would have imagined. and junior Terry Lorenz, senior Jamie Ling, and junior Tim Harberts are beginning to pick up right where they left off in 1994. 
"They (the freshmen) huve really stepped up big for us," said captain Brett Bruininks prior to the loss to Boston College. "I don't think we ex­pected them to make this big of an impact this soon. When the rest of the team gets going, we're going to be strong offen­sively." 
A strong team effort is what it will take for the Irish to close the gap between themselves and the Spartans. 
It may even help eliminate some of the difTerences. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
The Observer 

and mail to: P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer D Enclosed is $70 for one academic year 
is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's D Enclosed is $40 for one semesterCommunity. 
Name __________,________________________________Join the more than 13,000 readers who have Address ______________________________________
found The Observer an indispensible link to the 
City------------State _______ Zip._______
two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
... 
• VOLLEYBAll 
Netters continue winning ways 
By BETSY BAKER Sporrs Writer 
Seven down, four to go. 

The 14th-ranked Notre Dame volleyball team won their six and seventh Big East matches this weekend to remain unde­feated in the conference and improve their overall record to 20-5. 
The Irish fmished off Rutgers in 50 minutes on Saturday in a three-game trouncing with scores of 15-4, 15-1. 15-9. The match on Sunday saw much of the same as the Irish defeated Seton Hall15-6, 15-7, 15-6. 
Due to Pittsburgh's defeat of Connecticut last weekend, the Irish now stand as the only un­beaten team in the conference. With four remaining Big East matches. the outlook is good for the Irish to at least share a piece of the regular-season title and clinch one of the top seeds in the conference champi­onship. The top two seeds in the tournament. which will be hosted by the Irish in the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center on November 18-19, receive byes, with the winner of the championship receiving an automatic bid to the NCAA tournament. 
The Irish have dominated the conference thus far, especially this past weekend. The victory over Rutgers dropped the Lady Knights to 11-13 overall, 0-6 in the Big East. 
Senior co-captain Brett Hensel. whose normal role is as a defensive specialist, was called to action as a setter in the match against Rutgers as starting setter Carey May was out due to illness. Hensel led the Irish in all three games of the victory. 
"Brett did a great job run­ning the offense in Carey's ab­sence," Notre Dame head coach Debbie Brown said. "Today was just another exam­ple of how valuable a player she really is." 
"Brett does not show up in offensive statistics, but she is one of the best all-around play­ers we have ever had." 
Sophomore outside hitters Angie Harris and Jaimie Lee mirrored each other's team­leading performances with ten kills and two digs each. Freshman Lindsay Treadwell, who has developed as a key player in the Irish line-up, led the defensive end with eight 

Tuesday, October 31, 1995 

Brett Hensel, normally a defensive specialist, filled in at setter for an injured Carey May and led the Irish in conference competition this weekend. Notre Dame is undefeated in the Big East. 
digs. Hall. Another dynamic duo 
Sunday manifested another surfaced as juniors Jen Briggs example of Irish dominance and Jenny Birkner paired for with the victory over last year's eleven kills each with Harris conference tri-champion Seton right behind them with ten. 
By LAURIE KELLEHER SportS Writer 
After practicing for only three weeks, the Saint Mary's swim­ming and diving team dove right into competition this weekend. On Friday the Belles competed in the Notre Dame Relays against Division I teams and on Saturday against DePauw University. The Belles expected good competition and made a good showing against the teams at both meets. 
At Friday's meet, the Belles kept up with their competitors in many of the relays, finishing fifth out of six teams. The 1000 freestyle relay of Shannon Kelleher and Allison Smith placed third with a time of 11:01.69, right behind Boston College and Notre Dame. 
"It was a good way to start off the season." said freshman 
Nov. 9, 10, 11 ot 8 p.m. Nov. 12 ot 2:30 p.m. Moreau Center/Unle Theatre For ticket information, <oll219/284-4626 Mon. -Fri., 9a.m. -5 p.m. 

Alyssa Kenealy. "I was a little worried about the competition but as the meet progressed I enjoyed just doing the relays without worrying about what place we came in." 
Senior Katie Rose had a great race in the 50 backstroke of the 200 medley relay, which she swam in a time of 30.98. 
"We were quick in the sprints on Friday," Whatley said. "Katie's 30.98 sprint in the 200 medley relay was the race of the day." 
The Belles faced DePauw the next morning, once again fac­ing tough competition. The Belles were defeated by DePauw 218 to 80, but did well considering just having had a meet the night before and the 16 event meet format. 
In her first college meet Kenealy won the 100 fly in 
1:09 and took third in the 50 and 100 freestyles, while Kelleher won the 200 fly in 
2:26. Rose took second in the 100 and 200 backstrokes. 
Leading the Belles was cap­tain Megan McHugh who won the diving portion of the meet. 
"Saturday's first dual meet ran a little early this year," said Whatley. "We're still not in meat shape yet. But we will be ready to swim faster next week." 


CANDAX McNAIR PROGRAM 
Organizational Meeting with DR. MARIO BORELLI DIRECTOR, CANDAX 
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1995 
7:00 P.M. ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM (CUSHING) 
FOR STUDENTS INTERESTED IN GRADUATE STUDIES 
WHO ARE EITHER FIRST GENERATION COLLEGES TUDENTS ON FINANCIAL AID 
OR 
FROM UNDERREPRESENTED GROUPS 
ALL INTERESTED STUDENTS ARE WELCOME REFRESHMENTS AFTER THE MEETING AT 8:00 P.M. 
• SAINT MARY'S SWIMMING 


Belles struggle in early meets 
NOTRE DAME
<£~~ vs. 
Western Michigan 
NOTRE DAME 
7 p.m. -Joyce Center 

WINTER COATS 

Tuesday, October 31, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 15 

FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
r-------------------,
loo\(. 0 I (Y\1'1"\

TODAY FOUR FOOD 
r \(~<ow T'r'<' N<>"l !YIIL 
"BE f\ (.1\li.C:.o e,u,­

GROUPS BEGINS WHAT WE 
\Jt'I\Jt.ll'i.E. ()(l f\M "\1\\.,_.b, o 
TI\4'<T OoE~t<:., M~

HOPE WILL BE A LASTING 
(\r<O J: ~ow 1\t.L M"\ 

INSTITUTION: "PUBLIC 
>:'M 1\ e,,.,o £"'1"'1··. 
L..~>.e.woltl< f\1'10 "Srvo"''"'~ 

FORUM. WHERE THE 
\

AVERAGE STUDENT SPEAKS' 
lol>""\ Wt. liME "jo«"' ," A C11~t'"'"L 

DILBERT 
I DON'T UNDERSTAND HOW TH( NEW REORGAN­IZATION WILL I-IELP US "FOCUS ON OUR CORE BUSINES5." 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 37 Revolutionary War patriot
1 Oscars org. 
39 Making a 6 Novelist Waugh hole-in-one 

10 Shade of blue 
41 Dove's sound 14 New York 
42 More rational 

restaurateur 
43 "Airplane!" and 

15 Student pilot's 
"Airplane II" 

goal 
actor 16 Fine powder 
4&Cysts17 Dairy product 
47 Anheuser­18 Wedding cake 
Busch, e.g.feature 
48 Waggin' part19 Kind of lens 
50 Long-running 20 Maine's junior 
NBC show, for Senator 
short 23 Lobs 51 --de Cologne 24 Dark brew 
53 Missive 25 Toast topping 58 "Don't It Make 28 St. Louis team, My Brown Eyes 
since this fall Blue" singer 31 In recent days 61 Tresses 33 Umpire's call 64 Lose power 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-=-t:-:+.=+::::1 21 "No man -­island" -:-t;:-t:=-+::::1 22 Withdraws gradually 25 Former diplomat Kirkpatrick 26 Beat poet Ginsberg 27 Mike of 50-Across 
:I 
0 
u 
.... 
0
.. 
"' ® :I
.. 
0 
~ 
o­
0 
u 
II) 
65 Actress Barkin &6 Moisesof 
Montreal 87 Hideous &8 Family member 
69 Celtic language 10 Answer to "Shall we?" 
71 Pub game 
DOWN 
1 Neckwear item 2 Actress Thomas 3 Victimizes, with 
"on" 
4 Name of two Presidents 5 Silly smile &Sleuths' canine 7TV's"-and Clark" 
8 Actress Verdugo 9 Flower part 10 Wood-dressing tool 11 Status-­
12 Road show grp. 13 Banking device 
1·\M<~PE.~'> fl\\ 'Soc..o LofE. ~".,.··~:::~~~~ 
l'M ~EI 11.1'1011-\ER RESOORC£ ·C.oi'IS\JIJ.I~G KID IN /1.1'1 OVERPOP\lLII-.IED PLA~H, RII.I'SEO TCl {I.N Alr>.RMING EXIENI IS'( Mll.t>lso~ .1\\l'dl\lE t>-t-10 1-\0\.L'iWOOD, Po\5£P Will-\ I'll~ OI'{ICPIL f>..N.\J fl.l\IO.N.t:\TED 
Pt.E.RS 1\) \II.K.E 01/ER \HE.. WORLD 
'ri~Et-.1 '{OJ'RE OLI) f>.N.'O WU..K ! 

DID OURCORE BU5INE55 Cl-11\NGE? OR ARE YOU SAYING THAJ EVERY REORG 
PR1.0R. TO THIS WAS 
A t'\lSDIRECI"ED FAILURE! 
\ 


29 Supersonic number 30 Summer ermine 32Melt 33 Nasty remarks 34 Oak starter 35 Damage a reputation 36 Was aware of 38 Georgetown athlete 40 Actress Garson 44 Waiter's burden 45 Window part 

DAVE KELLETT YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON Wu..«.. No1 "& fflAO£ 
yutl Ot= ~'\"''~ 1>\11'18 

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 31,1995 
f\f''·V'-oll E!f 

(For your personalized daily Jeane Dixon horoscope, based on your own date of binh, call 1-900-988-7788. Your phone company will bill you 99 
cents a minute.) 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Make your move soon. Close asso­ciates will bend over back ward to help you become a winner. Enjoy the tall financial stories that friends tell you, but do not invest in their projects. Early in 1996, tempers could nair over division of funds or property. Keep a cool head. Less imaginative types may consider your ideas far-out. Ignore them! Success comes when you work in your own style. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: newscaster Jane Pauley, soap star Deidre Hall, Dutch artist Jan Vermeer, bicyclist Jeannie Longo. 
ARIES (March 21-April I 9): 
II 

You find the solution to a recurring 
I ~ 

financial problem after consulting old friends. Creative work can be highly lucrative. Age has nothing to do with your ability to learn. 
!i 

I 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Take advantage of an opportunity to 
acquire high-tech skills at company expense. Your mate takes your side 
l 

in a family dispute. Strike a better balance between business and plea­
sure. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Salespeople should do great today! Mail letters promptly to get a quick response. Impulsive action is a no­no in both business and finance. Delegate routine responsibilities. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Meet people more than halfway. Seek compromise solutions wherev­er possible. Your partner offers practical suggestions for the future. Weigh them carefully. A romantic interest is reciprocated. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Put a friend's well-being first today. Come to the rescue if the going gets rough. Avoid silly squabbles with a partner. The two of you have a lot in 
..... -1 

•MENU 
Notre Dame 
NORTH Home-Style Chicken Julienne Vegetables Italian Grilled Sole 
Saint Mary's 
Rotisserie Chicken Whole Red Potatoes Honey Dill Baby Carrots 



Celebrate a friend's 
49 Story of Robin 58 Essential point 

birthday with 
Hood, e.g. 
59 Lean 52 Custom 
60 Playboy Khan et 54 Actress Shire al. 55 Polk's &1 Sandwich meat predecessor 

a special
62--carte 56 Choose 
&litem in an 57 Descartes and electric others discharge 

0 bserver ad. 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
common! Focus on shared goals. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
Intellect alone will not suffice. 
Include the realms of intuition and 
imagination. Faith' helps you find 
the answer to a romantic dilemma or 
family problem. 
LIBRA (Sept 23-0ct 22): Look before you leap into a financial arrangement. Happily, your work skills are a perfect fit for a new assignment Recycling an old pro­ject boosts profits. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Set the stage for future action by set­ting priorities and sticking to them. Confidential advice could help you arrive at a more savvy financial strategy. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Being too critical or assertive could backfire. Take a low-key approach and show sensitivity. An emphasis on attention to detail as well as teamwork will produce excellent results. A major purchase is a good value. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your mate or partner may have to be handled with kid gloves today . Distant affairs continue to cause confusion. Postpone working late if loved ones need you at home. Music and dance help you relax. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Be careful not to overstep your bounds in a business or financial matter. Avoid distractions that cause scattered thinking. Your dreams can provide valuable guidance. Analyze them. Study your spending habits before devising a budget • 
PISCES (Feb. I9-March 20): Keep non-essential purchases to a minimum. Innuential people are try­ing to get in touch with you. Make yourself available. An avocation or hobby can be a source of income. Think about one day changing careers. 
SOUTH Ratatouille Spaghetti Rice Pilaf Green Beans 

.. 
..
I H & G/F /S BASKETBALL 
CAMPUS SQUASHI H & G/F /S ICE HOCKEY 
CAMPUS TABLE TENNIS 


CLUB BASKETBALL 
CAMPUS CO-REC WALLYBALL 
CAMPUS CO-REC BROOMBALL DEADLINE: NOVEMBER 1 DEADLINE: NOVEMBER 8 
631-6100 
- 
SPORTS  
page 16  Tuesday, October 31, 1995  

.INTERHAU. fOOTBAll. 




PW, Walsh suffer upsets 
By KRISTIN TRABUCCO possession of the second, as ued the upset streak as they SportS Writer Katie Dillenburger caught a held off third-ranked Walsh 13­touchdown pass on fourth down 6. 
Rankings meant little Sunday, and four. During the first half, both de­as stadium hopefuls squared off Badin held PW on their next fenses held the opposition's of­in the first round of women's two possessions, ensuring their fense scoreless. In the second interhall play-offs. Facing poor win with an interception by half, though, the play became field and weather conditions, receiver Michelle Dillenburger more intense. On Walsh's first the players fans an exciting af­with 28 seconds left. Team cap­play of the half, Lyons' Mary ternoon of women's interhall tain Fran Maloney said the O'Shaughnessy intercepted the football. team is "confident" in their ball at their own 35 yard line, 
Seventh-ranked Badin uti­playoff aspirations. "We had her second interception of the lized a smothering defense as some problems with the offense game. Two plays later, Marissa they shocked second-rated and getting started, but after we got Palombit ran for a 35-yard previously undefeated PW 6-0. going we did well. We're taking touchdown for the defending 
The two teams held each it one day at a time. If we play champions. other scoreless in the first half. to our ability we should be able With a fumbled return and a Badin was able to put together to get past this next game." a scoring drive on their first Lyons, ranked sixth, contin-see WOMEN'S! page 13 
Zahm continues domination, Stanford beats Dillion 
By TIM MCCONN Late in the third quarter, Zahm took to Sports Writer the air again. After a first down run, Orr launched a 36-yard bomb that The stars shone brightly on Sunday Glennon hauled in, giving the Bats their 
afternoon. as Zahm's key players 16-0 lead. By the end of the game, Orr stepped up to complete the first of what had completed six of 12 passes for 86 they hope will be a three-step champi­yards and two touchdowns. 
onship process. Behind a big play Without tailback Jeff Kloska, who was offense and the "Red Swarm" defense, 
out with an injury, the Vermin could not the Rabid Bats knocked Carroll out of get their offense started. The defensive the playoffs by the score of 16-0. line, led by Pat McDonough, would not 
The offense may not have amassed budge, preventing big fullback Joe much yardage, but they got the job done. Schenner from breaking anything up the With a 3-0 lead following a Mike Wigton middle. Jake Schaller and his gang of field goal, Zahm's offense was driving 
linebackers allowed nothing to get out­again. Starting on the Carroll 22 yard side, and the secondary forced incomple­line, the Bats ran the ball four straight 
tion after incompletion. times. Then, on third and goal from the 
The defense could not go an entire 13 yard line, quarterback Chris Orr game without creating at least a couplethrew a quick slant to flanker Dan 
turnovers. Early in the second quarter.
Glennon. Glennon evaded and danced with Carroll facing a third and 17 situa­around the entire Vermin defense en route to a touchdown and a 9-0 lead. see MEN'S! page 12 


• Fm.naAu.. 
Cengia, Kopka compete to kick 
By MEGAN McGRATH Sports Writer 
It ~eems like such a simple task. Yet anyone who's ever watched David Letterman at­tempt to kick with Nick Lowery in the alley knows that kicking a football is a tough job. 
Since the graduation of Kevin Pendergast in 1994, the kicking game has been one of the weakest facets of the Notre Dame offense. 
Kevin Kopka had strength­ened the team with his consis­tent point-after and field goal efforts. But the freshman has struggled recently, and sopho­more Scott Cengia moved into the top kicking spot last Saturday against Boston College. 
"Coach told me last Thursday after practice that he would give me a chance," Cengia re­called. 
"Scott has been kicking well in practice and I missed some kicks against USC," Kopka said. "I think Coach Holtz saw that and it added up to a chance for Scott." 

Heading into the match-up with the Eagles, Kopka was six for 11 on field goal attempts and 27 of 29 on PATs. How­ever, he missed his first point­after attempt against USC and then shanked a 29-yard field goal later in the game. 
Cengia made the most of the chance, hitting field goals of 22 and 26 yards and converting on both extra point attempts. 
Kopka earned the number­one kicker spot after fall prac­tice. However, the pressure of college competition has taken a toll on the freshman. 
"I think I need to work on re­laxing in game situations," Kopka said. "I expected pres­sure, but it's still been an ad­justment." 
Cengia appeared in nine 
games for the Irish last season, converting on five of eight field goal tries, with a long of 43 yards, and four of seven PATs. 
"I felt bad that I wasn't the top kicker this season," Cengia said. "But I decided I would try to be like a coach to Kevin and help him through the rough times." 
For himself, Cengia tried to keep his head up and keep working to improve his kicking. 
"No matter what was happening I still wanted to be competitive," Cengia said. "I wanted to make the most of the chance if it arrived." 
Neither kicker sees the other as competition, however, pre­ferring to look at the overall good for the team. 
"As far as I'm concerned, Kevin is the number one kick­er," Cengia said. "I think who­ever is doing best for the team on a week-to-week basis will be the kicker." 


Kevin Kopka boots an extra point attempt against USC. Kopka's recent struggles have led the Irish to turn to sophomore Scott Cengia for PAT and field goal kicking duties. 
Football

.. 

• Volleyball undefeated in big East 
vs. Navy, November 4, 1:30 p.m. EST 
Cross Country 

see page 14
District Meet, November 11 
Volleyball
SPO 

vs. Saint John's, November 3, 8 p.m. 
SMC Sports • Hockey gets ready for MSU 
vs. Connecticut, November 5, 8 p.m. 
Soccer at Valparaiso, November 2 
GL.at a 

Volleyball at Anderson University, see page 13 
Men's Soccer 
November l 

• SMC Swimmers sink 
vs. Villanova, November 3, 7:30p.m. 
at Wisconsin, November 5, 1 p.m. 
see page 14 





